!~ABS~! The existence of rhodanese (thiosulfate:cyanide sulfurtransferase; EC 2.8.1.1) in plants has been highly controversial. We have isolated and characterized for the first time in plants two cDNAs encoding rhodanese isoforms in Arabidopsis thaliana , AtRDH1 and AtRDH2 . Both cDNAs contained a full-length open reading frame, the expression of which increased the rhodanese activity of transgenic yeast. AtRDH1 protein was mitochondrial, while AtRDH2 was cytosolic. AtRDH1 and AtRDH2 genes originated from the duplication of a large genomic region in chromosome 1 which took place before the appearance of the Arabidopsis genus. Our results confirm the existence of rhodanese in plants.
!~RES~! The presence of a detectable rhodanese activity in A. thaliana ( [TBL1] ) led us to search for rhodanese-encoding cDNAs by sequence analysis of the A. thaliana subset of the dbEST database, using animal rhodanese sequences as probes. Among the 45 752 ESTs of A. thaliana present in dbEST (release 102999), eight could be assigned to encode a putative rhodanese, and they could be separated into two families. Representative ESTs were sequenced and named AtRDH1 and AtRDH2 for A rabidopsis t haliana r ho d anese h omologue 1 and 2 respectively (accession numbers AJ011045 and AJ010500, respectively). AtRDH1 contained a full-length open reading frame (ORF) encoding a 379 amino acids long protein of 41.9 kDa. AtRDH2 contained a full-length ORF encoding a 318 amino acids long protein of 34.7 kDa. AtRDH1 and AtRDH2 were 81% identical to each other, and respectively 76% and 71% identical to a putative mitochondria-targeted rhodanese-like protein of Datisca glomerata , DgTST, whose actual function had not been investigated [BIB13] . Most of the essential amino acids defined in animal rhodanese were conserved in the plant proteins ( [FIG1] ), whose predicted tertiary structure could be superimposed on that of bovine rhodanese (not shown). The expression of AtRDH1 and AtRDH2 cDNAs in transgenic yeast resulted in a two-fold increase of their rhodanese activity ( [TBL1] ). Thus, we conclude that AtRDH1 and AtRDH2 encode two functional rhodanese isoforms in A. thaliana . In animals, cytosolic mercaptopyruvate:cyanide sulfurtransferase (EC 2.8.1.2; MST), which catalyzes the reaction mercaptopyruvate+cyanide→pyruvate+thiocyanate, is closely related to mitochondrial rhodanese [BIB14] . Both enzymes catalyze the MST and rhodanese reactions, and they are actually defined by their preferential use of mercaptopyruvate or thiosulfate, respectively [BIB14 BIB15] . The sequence of the active site of plant rhodanese (CGTG) is closer to that of animal MST (CGSG) than to that of animal rhodanese (CRKG) ( [FIG1] ). In rat rhodanese, the substitution of CRKG by C G KG increases the MST activity of the mutated protein [BIB14] . Therefore, plant rhodanese may also have MST activity, in addition to their rhodanese activity. Kinetic characterization of purified recombinant AtRDH1 and AtRDH2 proteins would address this question. The AtRDH1 protein had a 57 amino acids long N-terminal extension compared to AtRDH2 and animal sequences ( [FIG1] ), which had the features of a mitochondria-targeting peptide. The expression of a chimeric protein consisting of the 108 N-terminal amino acids of AtRDH1 fused to the N-terminus of the green fluorescent protein (GFP) in A. thaliana leaves showed a pattern identical to that obtained with spinach mitochondrial cysteine synthase-like CS-C N-terminus–GFP fusion protein [BIB12] ( [FIG1] ). The expression of a chimeric protein consisting of the 45 N-terminal amino acids of AtRDH2 fused to the GFP showed a pattern identical to that of the cytosolic sGFP(S65T) protein. Together with the computer prediction for protein targeting (PSORT program, http://www.genome.ad.jp/SIT/SIT.html ), these results suggest strongly that AtRDH1 would be targeted to the mitochondria, while AtRDH2 would be located in the cytosol. In animals, rhodanese is mitochondrial while MST is cytosolic [BIB14] . The presence of a cyanide sulfurtransferase activity in both subcellular compartments could be a general feature of higher organisms. The 22 N-terminal amino acids in bovine rhodanese are sufficient for mitochondrial import [BIB16] , and are not removed during enzyme maturation [BIB9] . In contrast, the presence of an N-terminal extension in mitochondrial AtRDH1 and putative mitochondrial DgTST1 ( [FIG1] ), and its absence in cytosolic AtRDH2, suggests strongly that in plants, the mitochondrial import of rhodanese could involve the cleavage of a targeting peptide. AtRDH1 was identical to gene YUP8H12R.17 (accession number AC002986), while AtRDH2 was identical to gene F309.26 (accession number AC006341), both located in chromosome 1. AtRDH1 and AtRDH2 genes contained respectively 10 and 11 well conserved introns ( [FIG1] ). We investigated whether AtRDH1 and AtRDH2 could have appeared after a genomic duplication or a single gene duplication event. The complete genetic surroundings of both AtRDH1 and AtRDH2 , spanning respectively 186 kb (BAC sequences T8K14 (accession number AC007202) and part of YUP8H12R) and 114.5 kb (BAC sequence F309) were compared ( [FIG2] ). The AtRDH1 surroundings contain 52 predicted genes, of which 20 have a homologue in AtRDH2 surroundings. The deduced proteins of these common genes show 70±17% average sequence identity with their counterparts. Thus we conclude that the two rhodanese genes arose from the duplication of a complete genomic region containing numerous genes. Three zones can be defined in AtRDH1 and AtRDH2 surroundings. The first zone shows seven common genes, disposed in the same order, with the same orientation and spanning the same space in both genomic regions. Their deduced proteins share 84±7% identity with their counterpart. The second zone is extensively reorganized, exhibiting the events of two duplications, one quadruplication and a number of gene insertions and deletions. The third zone shows six common ORFs, disposed in the same order, with the same orientation, and spanning roughly the same space in both genomic regions. This zone includes the rhodanese gene, bordered by an identical tRNA Arg gene. The deduced proteins of these six common genes share 79±12% identity. Therefore, the two genomic regions were not subjected to an extensive reorganization after the duplication event, except in the second zone. The size of the genomic duplication, which could extend upstream and downstream of the regions investigated in this study, and the relative positions of the two homologous regions in chromosome 1 are unknown. The completion of the A. thaliana genome sequencing project will address these questions. The deduced proteins of the 13 genes contained in the first and third zones share an average 81±9% sequence identity. Using the calibrated protein clock published by Feng et al. [BIB17] , we estimate that the duplication in chromosome 1 could have happened 130–450 million years ago. This duplication would therefore long predate the appearance of the Arabidopsis genus, estimated to have occurred 14.5–20.4 million years ago [BIB18] . A similar genome structure could exist in other plant genera and families. To the best of our knowledge this is the first time that rhodanese-encoding cDNAs from plants are characterized. This report confirms the existence of rhodanese in plants, and gives a final answer to an older debate [BIB6 BIB7] . The availability of plants rhodanese cDNAs will make it possible to better characterize the biochemical characteristics and the physiological function of this enzyme, which remains poorly understood even in animals.
!~MM~! Molecular cloning, PCR amplification, yeast media, cultures and heat shock transformation were performed according to standard procedures [BIB8] . A. thaliana var. Columbia was grown vertically for 3 weeks on solid MS medium at 24°C and 16 h light per day, then transferred to fresh MS medium for 2 days before use. The A. thaliana subset of the dbEST database was searched for ESTs encoding putative homologues of bovine rhodanese [BIB9] using the various BLAST algorithms. The ESTs identified were separated into families based on their homologies using the GELMERGE algorithm of the GCG package (Wisconsin Package Version 10.0, Genetics Computer Group, Madison, WI, USA). ESTs encoding putative rhodanese-like proteins were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center ( http://aims.cps.msu.edu/aims/ ), and sequenced on both strands using the Thermo Sequenase kit (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech) and a DSQ2000 sequencer (Shimazu, Japan), following the instructions of the manufacturers. The yeast–bacteria shuttle expression vector pYPGE15, which contains a polylinker placed between the yeast phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK) gene promoter and the CYC1 terminator, was used to constitutively overexpress rhodanese proteins in yeast. A Bgl II– Xba I fragment of EST plasmid 141K15T7, enclosing the complete coding sequence of AtRDH1, was introduced downstream the PGK promoter of pYPGE15. A Sal I site was engineered upstream of the AtRDH2 ORF by polymerase chain reaction, using synthetic oligonucleotide primers (Rho2TP: TCACTTTGGTCGACTCATGGCTTC; M13-20: GTAAAACGACGGCCAGT)) and EST plasmid TAP0319 as a template. The resulting fragment was digested by Sal I and Kpn I and introduced downstream of the PGK promoter of pYPGE15. The resulting expression vectors were introduced into Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain CC371-4C ( mat α leu2 ura3 met3 ). Transformed yeast were cultured in adequate medium until they reached an absorbance at 600 nm of 1.0, then were harvested by centrifugation, rinsed in water and resuspended in ice-cold extraction buffer (100 mM potassium phosphate pH 7.2, 1 mM EDTA, 10 mM Na 2 S 2 O 3 , 10% (v/v) glycerol). Cells were disrupted by sonication by five pulses of 20 s, 100 W, on melting ice. A cell-free crude protein extract was obtained after centrifugation for 10 min at 10 000× g . Plant tissues were ground into liquid nitrogen, and the resulting powder was homogenized into ice-cold extraction buffer. A cell-free crude protein extract was obtained after centrifugation for 10 min at 10 000× g . Rhodanese activity was measured on fresh crude protein extracts by measuring thiocyanate formation by the method of Westley [BIB10] . Results were corrected for spontaneous thiocyanate formation. One activity unit was defined as the synthesis of 1 μmol of thiocyanate per minute. Proteins were assayed using a protein assay kit (Bio-Rad) with bovine serum albumin as a standard. The expression vector sGFP(S65T) [BIB11] , which contains a plant-improved GFP coding sequence controlled by the CaMV 35S promoter and the nopaline synthase gene terminator, was used to produce rhodanese targeting peptide–GFP fusion proteins. An Nco I site was engineered in the AtRDH1 cDNA sequence by PCR, using synthetic oligonucleotide primers (M13-reverse (forward): GGAAACAGCTATGACCATG; RhodTP (reverse): GCTCATCCGCCATGGACCATGAAGCATCC) and EST plasmid 141K15T7 as a template. The amplified DNA fragment was digested by Sal I and Nco I and inserted into the expression vector, resulting in the expression of a chimeric protein containing the 108 N-terminal amino acids of the AtRDH1 protein fused upstream of the full-length GFP protein. An Nco I and a Sal I site were engineered in the AtRDH2 cDNA sequences by PCR, using synthetic oligonucleotide primers (Rho2TP (forward): TCACTTTGGTCGACTCATGGCTTC; RhodTP (reverse): GCTCATCCGCCATGGACCATGAAGCATCC) and EST plasmid TAP0319 as a template. The amplified DNA fragment was digested by Sal I and Nco I and inserted into the expression vector, resulting in the expression of a chimeric protein containing the 45 N-terminal amino acids of the AtRDH2 protein fused upstream of the full-length GFP protein. Particle gun bombardment was carried out as previously described [BIB12] using a Helios Gene-Gun System (Bio-Rad Biosystem) and following the protocol provided by the supplier. Leaves were observed with a fluorescent microscope (BX50-FLA, Olympus) using Chroma’s dual band filters, which provide excitation at 475–490 and 545–565 nm and emission at 510–530 and 585–620 nm.
