!~ABS~! To perceive red and far-red light, plants have evolved specific photoreceptors called phytochromes. Even though the spectral properties of all phytochromes are very similar, they show a distinct mode of action. Here we describe EID1, a negatively acting component of the signaling cascade that shifts the responsiveness of the phytochrome A (phyA) signaling system associated with hypocotyl elongation from red to far-red wavelengths. EID1 is a novel nuclear F-box protein that contains a leucine zipper whose integrity is necessary for its biological function. EID1 most probably acts by targeting activated components of the phyA signaling pathway to ubiquitin-dependent proteolysis. 
!~RES~! To clone the EID1 gene, we followed two different strategies: screening for new eid1 alleles in T-DNA lines and positional cloning. The increased light sensitivity observed ineid1 has been used to screen for new alleles. Under the applied low fluence rates of continuous red and far-red light,eid1 mutants exhibited a strong photomorphogenic development with open cotyledons and a reduced hypocotyl growth, whereas wild-type seedlings remained nearly etiolated (Fig.1A,B). This phenotype was strictly light dependent because all of the mutant lines exhibited an etiolated phenotype in darkness, with elongated hypocotyls and closed cotyledons on an apical hook (Fig. 1C). One T-DNA tagged line (eid1-4) belonging to the eid1 complementation group was used to clone flanking genomic sequences by inverse PCR. The genomic fragments belong to a gene located at about 55 kbp from the luminidependensgene on chromosome 2. This close proximity to theluminidependens gene fits well with the data of the fine mapping because no recombinants with the respective marker were detectable after the analyses of 732 chromatides. Each of the sixeid1 alleles isolated so far showed a mutation in an intronless open reading frame (ORF) having a length of 1008 bp (Fig.2A). Northern blots revealed one band of ∼1350 nucleotides, corresponding to the size of the ORF of the intronless EID1 gene and the longest isolated EID1EST (data not shown).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] For complementation analysis, the strong eid1-3 mutant was transformed with a35S-promotor–EID1-ORF–nos-terminator construct and a genomic fragment that includes the putative promoter and the terminator of EID1. Transgenic eid1-3 lines exhibited a clearly reduced light sensitivity and they appear like wild-type seedlings under selective light conditions (Fig. 1D). Thus, the EID1-ORF and the genomic fragment were sufficient to repress the hypersensitive phenotype in the eid1-3 mutant. Therefore, we conclude that the respective DNA sequence codes for theEID1 gene product.  The deduced EID1 protein can be subdivided into at least five different domains (Fig. 2A). The most N-terminal domain shows homology with F-box proteins (Fig. 2B). SCF (Skp1,Cdc53, and F-box) proteins are the major components of the so-called SCF complexes that function as ubiquitin ligases. SCF complexes are involved in the proteasome-dependent degradation of many regulatory proteins in yeast, animals, and plants (CITATION).  A leucine zipper pattern is adjacent to the F-box motif (Fig.2A). Leucine zipper domains facilitate the homo- or heterodimerization of polypeptides (CITATION), and they are present in different families of transcription factors that also play an important role in the light signaling of plants (CITATION; CITATION). The functional significance of the respective domain in EID1 is underlined by the mutation in the weak eid1-2 allele, which results in a glycine to cysteine transition immediately in front of the second leucine residue of the zipper pattern. To our knowledge, EID1 is the first F-box protein reported to contain a leucine zipper that seems to be necessary for its function.  The C-terminal part of EID1 has no significant homology with known proteins. It contains a highly acidic domain followed by a basic domain. The functional importance of the C-terminal part is emphasized by the phenotype of the eid1-3, eid1-5, andeid1-6 alleles that show structural alterations or deletions in this area (Fig. 2A).  The F-box protein function of EID1 is further underlined by the results of a yeast two-hybrid screening by using the full-length polypeptide fused to the GAL4 binding domain as bait. From 534 positive clones, ∼95% were identical to ASK1 and one clone was identified as being ASK2. ASK1 and ASK2 are two Arabidopsis homologs (Arabidopsis SKP1-like) of the yeast Skp1 protein (CITATION).  To demonstrate that the F-box domain of EID1 mediates interaction with ASK1 and ASK2, two different mutated constructs were tested. For the EID1ΔF construct, the first 54 amino acids containing the F-box domain were deleted, and for the EID1P10A mutant, the highly conserved proline amino acid at position 10 was changed to an alanine residue. Both mutations abolished the interaction of EID1 with ASK1 and ASK2 in a two-hybrid assay (Fig.3A).  [[FIGURE]] The results of the two-hybrid assays could be verified by pull-down experiments by using fusion proteins of GST to wild-type EID1 or its mutated forms. The GST fusion proteins were expressed inEscherichia coli and bound to Glutathione-S-Sepharose. [35S]methionine-labeled ASK1 and ASK2 polypeptides were added and binding was analyzed by SDS-PAGE and autoradiography. ASK1 and ASK2 showed a strong interaction with the chimeric GST–EID1 polypeptide (Fig. 3B). The interaction was clearly reduced or abolished with the mutated GST–EID1ΔF and GST–EID1P10Afusion proteins. No interactions were detected with GST, the empty Glutathion-S-Sepharose, and the labeled Luciferase as negative controls.  Translational fusions to green fluorescent protein (GFP) were used to investigate the subcellular localization of EID1. In transiently transformed parsley protoplasts, EID1–GFP appeared homogeneously distributed in the nucleus in dark- and light-treated protoplasts (Fig. 4A). In contrast, cytoplasmic localization became detectable with the EID1mNLS–GFP protein for which the first two basic amino acids in the basic domain were replaced by serine and glutamate residues (Fig. 4B). This result clearly demonstrates that the basic domain in EID1 is a functional nuclear localization sequence (NLS).  [[FIGURE]] The eid1 mutants exhibited an extremely enhanced sensitivity in a broad-banded red light field as long as phyA was not completely degraded at higher fluence rates. Analysis of eid1 phyA double mutants further confirmed that the observed hypersensitivity in red and far-red light is strictly phyA-dependent (CITATION). To test for the spectral sensitivity in greater detail, we determined action spectra for hypocotyl elongation in phyB-5 and phyB-5 eid1-1 mutants under low light fluence rates. phyB-5 mutants were used to exclude responses in the red-light region of the electromagnetic spectrum that are predominantly regulated by phyB in Arabidopsis. A typical HIR action spectrum with a maximum at 716 nm was obtained for phyB-5seedlings (Fig. 5A). In contrast, the action spectrum with the phyB-5 eid1-1 mutant was completely altered (Fig. 5B). Even though the eid1 mutant exhibited a 23-fold increase in light sensitivity at 716 nm, the maximum light response was detectable around 670 nm, where it exhibited a 1170-fold higher value for relative photon effectiveness. The shape of thephyB-5 eid1-1 action spectrum is very similar to the absorption cross-section of the inactive Pr form of the photoreceptor and thus, to the cross-section expected for the formation of the physiologically active Pfr form (Fig. 5B).  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Seeds of the Wassilewskija wild type were mutagenized by imbibition in ethyl methanesulfonate as described by CITATION. T-DNA lines were obtained directly from INRA or from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Center. For light experiments, seedlings were grown on paper for 4 d. For screenings, standard light fields were used and fluence rates were adjusted to 15 nmole/m2sec with red light and 140 nmole/m2sec with far-red light (CITATION). Action spectroscopy was performed as described byCITATION. To obtain monochromatic light, DIL and DEPIL interference filters (Schott, Mainz, Germany) together with modified Leitz Prado 500-W projectors (Leitz, Wetzlar, Germany) and Osram Xenophot Longlife lamps (Osram, Berlin, Germany) were used. Fluence rates were measured by using a J16 photometer and a J6512 radiant energy probe (Tektronix, Beaverton, USA).  New hypersensitive mutants were crossed with eid1-3 to test for complementation. T-DNA flanking sequences in eid1-4were isolated by inverse PCR by using the primers 5′-CCAGTGTCCTATTACCAATAGCCGAC GGTATCG-3′ and 5′-TAAGCGTAGACAACCCTCACCTGGAAACGG3′ that anneal to the T-DNA of the INRA lines (CITATION). To check for mutations in theEID1 gene, we amplified genomic DNA by PCR by using two different primer pairs: 5′-AACAGTTAAGACTATTCCCG GTTTACGCG-3′ together with 5′-GTTTTGATCGGGACCTAGCTCAC GTTCTA-3′ (EID1N-R primer); and 5′-CTCGCTGTTTGTTGTCCTG GTCTCTTCC-3′ (EID1C-F primer) together with 5′-TCCTGTCCAGAA AGTAAGAAGAAGGTGCC-3′. DNA fragments were sequenced directly. Mapping was done as described by CITATION. For DNA extraction we used a DNeasy plant mini kit (QIAGEN).  To create the basal construct, we amplified theEID1 coding region from genomic DNA by PCR by using the 5′BamHI–NcoI primer (5′-TTGGATC CATGGCGGAATCTGTCTTCTCTT-3′) and the 3′ SalI primer (5′-AGAT GTCGACTTGAGACCGTGGAAGAAGAATGAAAG-3′). TheBamHI–SalI fragment was cloned into the pBluescriptSK (Stratagene) vector and sequenced. All further mutations were introduced by PCR and the subcloned fragments were sequenced again. The mutated F-box constructs were obtained by using the EID1N-R primer together with the oligonucleotide 5′-ATCCATGGCGGAATCTGTCTTCTCTTGTATAGCAG AAG-3′ for the proline to alanine change in the EID1P10A construct and the olignucleotide 5′-CAGGATCCCCACCGTCATCTCCGATCTC-3′ for the deletion of the first 54 amino acid in the EID1 ΔFconstruct. The amplified fragments were cloned into the basal construct by using an internal EcoRI site together with the originalNcoI site (EID1P10A ) or the introducedBamHI site (EID1 ΔF). To create a GFP fusion gene, we removed the stop codon of EID1by an SmaI restriction site by using the SmaI primer 5′-TTCCCGGGAGCGCTAGTGTAGAGAGGTAAAGCA GTCCAAGCACC-3′ together with the BamHI–NcoI primer. The amplified fragment was introduced between a 35S-promoter fragment and aGFP–nos-terminator cassette of a modified pBluescriptSK vector by using BamHI and SmaI restriction sites. The oligonucleotide 5′-CGAGATC TTCCGGTAAGCGAACGAAGGAAG-3′ spanning an internalBglII site was used together with the SmaI primer to change the amino acids in the basic domain (arginine 197 to serine, and lysine 198 to glutamate) to get the EID1mNLS construct.  To create the35S-promoter–EID1–nos-terminater construct, we cloned the basal EID1 fragment into the pPCV812 plant transformation vector by using internal BamHI andSalI restriction sites (CITATION). For the rescue with the EID1 genomic construct, a 4.2-kbp NsiI fragment obtained from the BAC clone T14P8 was ligated into thePstI site of the pBluescriptSK vector. The genomic fragment was isolated by using SstI and EcoRV sites, and it was subcloned into the pGPTV-bar plant transformation vector (CITATION) that was cut with SstI and SmaI.Arabidopsis transformation was done as described by CITATION. Parsley protoplasts were transiently transformed by electroporation (CITATION).  For two-hybrid screening, yeast strain pJ69-4A was first transformed with pGKBT7–EID1 as a bait followed by transformation with a lambda-ACT cDNA library (CITATION). The ASK1 andASK2 coding regions were amplified by PCR asBamHI–PstI fragments and cloned into the yeast vector pGADT7 (Clontech). These constructs were used for further analysis of growth on selective media and of β-galactosidase activity (CITATION) together with EID1,EID1P10A , and EID1 ΔFconstructs that were subcloned into the yeast two-hybrid vector pGKBT7.  The EID1 constructs were subcloned into the GST gene fusion vector pGEX-4T-1 (Amersham Pharmacia). GST, GST–EID1, GST–EID1ΔF, and GST–EID1P10A were expressed in E. coli M15[pREP]. Soluble extracts were applied to 1 mL of Glutathione-S-Sepharose (Sigma) and washed two times with extraction buffer (10 mM Na2HPO4, 1.8 mM KH2PO4, 0.14 M NaCl at pH 7.5). Equal aliquots of35S-labeled ASK1 or ASK2 were added to 60-μL aliquots of these matrices, as well as to the empty Sepharose matrix. All samples were filled up with extraction buffer to a total volume of 200 μL and incubated for 90 min at 4°C. The matrices were washed four times with 500 μL of extraction buffer, then the bound proteins were eluted with 50 μL of elution buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl at pH 8.0, 10 mM reduced glutathione) for 10 min at 25°C. Forty microliters of the eluate were mixed with 10 μL of 5× SDS-sample buffer and incubated for 2 min at 95°C. Twenty microliters of the eluate and 0.5 μL of the 35S-labeled proteins were size-fractionated on an SDS-PAGE to visualize the labeled ASK proteins by autoradiography. 35S-labeled ASK1 or ASK2 were obtained by using their pGADT7 constructs together with a TNT Quick Coupled Transcription/Translation System (Promega) and 35S-methionine (Amersham Pharmacia). 
