!~ABS~! Ara6 of Arabidopsis thaliana is a novel member of the Rab/Ypt GTPase family with unique structural features. It resembles Rab5 GTPases best, but lacks a large part of the C‐terminal hypervariable region and the cysteine motif, and instead harbors an extra stretch of amino acid residues containing myristoylation and palmitoylation sites at the N‐terminus. Ara6 is tightly associated with membranes and is expressed constitutively. In contrast, the conventional Rab5 ortholog, Ara7, is highly expressed only in actively dividing cells. Examination of green fluorescent protein (GFP)‐tagged proteins indicates that both Ara6 and Ara7 are distributed on a subpopulation of endosomes and suggests their roles in endosomal fusion. The endosomal localization of Ara6 requires N‐terminal fatty acylation, nucleotide binding and the C‐terminal amino acid sequence coordinately. Proteins similar to Ara6 are found only in higher plants and thus represent a novel class of Rab GTPases regulating endocytic function in a plant‐ specific manner.
!~RES~! A novel member of the Arabidopsis Rab family was isolated fortuitously from a cDNA library of A.thaliana during screening for other genes. The nucleotide sequence predicted a protein of 202 amino acid residues that conserves the four consensus sequences characteristic of Rab/Ypt GTPases. We thus designated this cDNA ARA6 (DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank accession No. AB007766). The Ara6 protein is judged by homology analysis to be most similar to Rab5 proteins in the family (see Supplementary data, available at The EMBO Journal Online). However, Ara6 has some very unique features (FIG-REF). First of all, it lacks the C‐terminal region containing part of the hypervariable region and the cysteine motif. The cysteine motif is conserved in almost all Rab/Ypt GTPases, and its isoprenylation is essential for attachment to membranes. The hypervariable region is important for their subcellular localization (CITATION; CITATION). Instead of this, Ara6 has an extra stretch of amino acids at the N‐terminus, which contains putative N‐myristoylation and palmitoylation sites. The amino acid sequence of the effector domain of Ara6, which is believed to specify the function of Rab/Ypt proteins (CITATION; CITATION), does not match any other proteins of this family known to date. We examined whether Ara6 does indeed hydrolyze GTP using a fusion protein of Ara6 and GST. GST–Ara6 showed GTPase activity, and the rate of GTP hydrolysis was estimated to be ∼0.0065 mol GTP/min/mol (data not shown). Based on literature and database searches, homologs of Ara6 can be found in Lotus japonicus (CITATION), Mesembryanthemum crystallinum (CITATION) and Oryza sativa (registered in a database), but this type of Rab/Ypt protein has never been reported in mammals or yeasts. The Rab subclass to which Ara6 belongs appears to be unique to plants. [[FIGURE]] To determine whether the N‐terminus of Ara6 is in fact myristoylated, we performed in vitro transcription and translation of wild‐type ARA6 and ARA6G2A, a mutant form in which the putative myristoylation site is destroyed, in the presence of 14C‐labeled myristic acid. As the source of a transcription and translation system, we used wheat germ extract which contains N‐myristoyltransferase (NMT) activity (CITATION). As shown in FIG-REF, radioactivity was incorporated into the wild‐type Ara6 but not the mutant Ara6, indicating that Gly2 is indeed the site of N‐myristoylation. The palmitoylation of Ara6 was also observed when Ara6 protein synthesized in vitro was incubated with the Arabidopsis lysate and 14C‐labeled palmitoyl‐CoA. Incorporation of radioactivity into the Ara6C3S mutant protein was not observed, indicating that Ara6 is indeed palmitoylated at Cys3 (FIG-REF). The Ara6G2A mutant was not palmitoylated either, showing that myristoylation of Ara6 is a prerequisite for palmitoylation. Next, we examined the membrane association of Ara6. Arabidopsis suspension cultured cells were harvested at a log phase, homogenized and centrifuged at 1500 g. The supernatant (S1.5) was centrifuged further at 100 000 g for 1 h to separate the crude membrane fraction (P100) from the cytosol (S100), which were subjected to immunoblotting analysis. As indicated in FIG-REF, most of the Ara6 protein was detected in the membrane fraction. A small amount was also found in the cytosol, as is the case for a conventional‐type Ara protein, Ara4. Ara6 was not extracted from membranes by salt but was partially extracted by urea or alkali, and almost completely by Triton X‐100 (FIG-REF). This property appears to be a little different from the case of Ara4, in which extraction by urea or alkali is less efficient. Such a weaker membrane association of Ara6 may reflect its unique lipid modification. As an authentic Rab5 homolog in Arabidopsis, we cloned a novel cDNA by RT–PCR and named it ARA7 (DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank accession No. AB038491). Ara7 shares 64.5% identity at the amino acid level to human Rab5c, and is 90.5% identical to Rha1, another Rab5 homolog of Arabidopsis (CITATION). In contrast to Ara6, the effector domain sequence of Ara7 and Rha1 is identical to that of Rab5c (FIG-REF), indicating that Ara7 and Rha1 are Rab5 orthologs. In the central part, Ara7 shares 59.6% identity with Ara6. The expression of Ara6 and Ara7 in suspension cultured cells was examined by immunoblotting analysis. As shown in FIG-REF and FIG-REF, Ara6 was expressed throughout the culture phase, and the level of protein was somewhat higher in the stationary phase. In contrast, Ara7 was highly expressed only when cells were actively dividing. A similar expression pattern was observed for Ara4, although the peak of expression was noted a little earlier than that of Ara7. FIG-REF shows the expression of these proteins in different organs of Arabidopsis. Ara6 was ubiquitously expressed in all organs examined, whereas Ara7 and Ara4 showed organ specificities. Ara7 and Ara4 were expressed abundantly in roots and suspension cultured cells. These results suggest that Ara6 has a more general role than Ara7 in plant cells. [[FIGURE]] GDI is the best known regulator molecule for the Rab/Ypt GTPases. GDI controls both the nucleotide state and the subcellular localization of Rab/Ypt proteins (CITATION). The isoprenylation of Rab/Ypt proteins at their C‐terminus is essential for their recognition by GDI (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Since Ara6 lacks the C‐terminal cysteine motif, its regulation should be independent of GDI. This was tested by using a yeast expression system. As we described previously, Arabidopsis GDI, AtGDI1, can replace the function of yeast GDI, Gdi1/Sec19 (CITATION). Yeast temperature‐sensitive sec19/gdi1 mutant cells transformed with AtGDI1 under the control of the galactose‐inducible GAL1 promoter depend on the function of AtGDI for growth at high temperature. These cells were transformed further with a plasmid harboring ARA6 or ARA7 under the control of the constitutive TDH3 promoter. If GDI serves to recycle Ara proteins from membranes to the cytosol, depletion of GDI should lead to a decrease of Ara proteins in the soluble pool. The above transformant cells were cultured in galactose medium at 23°C for 6 h, shifted to 37°C and cultured for 4 h to inactivate yeast GDI, and then transferred to glucose medium to deplete AtGDI1. Cells were collected after 16 h culture at 37°C, lysed, separated into supernatants and pellets, and then analyzed for Ara6 or Ara7 by immunoblotting (FIG-REF). When all GDI was depleted in glucose, the soluble pool of Ara7 was almost completely lost, indicating that AtGDI1 indeed serves to recycle Ara7. In contrast, almost the same amount of Ara6 was detected in the supernatant regardless of GDI depletion. Thus, GDI is not required for maintenance of the soluble pool of Ara6, suggesting that Ara6 has a unique system for the regulation of its GTPase cycle. [[FIGURE]] To examine the subcellular localization of Ara6, we transiently expressed a fusion protein of Ara6 and green fluorescent protein (GFP) in protoplasts prepared from Arabidopsis suspension cultured cells. The GFP fluorescence was observed with a high‐speed confocal laser scanning microscope developed in our laboratory. Still images of Ara6–GFP expressed under the control of the constitutive 35S promoter are shown in FIG-REF and FIG-REF. Fluorescent dots moved around in the cytoplasm very rapidly. They did not look like the Golgi apparatus, because GFP‐tagged Golgi proteins give larger signals in Arabidopsis cells that move much more slowly (CITATION). Ring‐like structures were also observed, often in association with a bright dot along the ring (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). In addition, faint fluorescence was also recognized on the plasma membrane and the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) in some cells (FIG-REF). No fluorescence was observed in cells that were not treated with plasmids (FIG-REF). To verify that the punctate localization of Ara6–GFP reflects the localization of endogenous protein, immunofluorescence analysis was carried out. To obtain the dual‐color image, the cells were viewed with a confocal laser microscope fitted with a spectrophotometer for emission band wavelength selection. The anti‐Ara6 antibody and Ara6–GFP stained the identical punctate organelles in transformed cells, and the staining pattern by the anti‐Ara6 antibody was very similar between transformed and untransformed cells (FIG-REF). These results led us to conclude that Ara6–GFP is localized correctly in Arabidopsis cells. [[FIGURE]] For comparison, we examined the localization of Ara7 tagged with GFP at the N‐terminus (GFP–Ara7). If Ara7 is a true counterpart of Rab5, it is expected to reside on early endosomes. As shown in FIG-REF, GFP–Ara7 was localized predominantly on the rapidly moving punctate organelles. Ring‐like structures were observed occasionally. Thus, Ara6–GFP and GFP–Ara7 yielded very similar fluorescent structures, which were most probably early endosomes. The lipophilic styryl dye, FM4‐64, is known to follow the endocytic pathway, from the plasma membrane via endosomes to the vacuole, when exogenously added to yeast cells (CITATION). We tried to use this chemical to analyze endocytosis in plant cells. The protoplasts of the Arabidopsis suspension culture cells were incubated with 50 μM FM4‐64 for 10 min, washed and resuspended in the culture medium containing 0.4 M mannitol. Just after labeling, FM4‐64 stained the plasma membrane (FIG-REF) and invaginations of the plasma membrane in some populations of cells (FIG-REF). Half an hour later, this dye was internalized and localized to small punctate structures in almost all cells (FIG-REF and FIG-REF), whose size and motility were almost indistinguishable from those visualized by Ara6–GFP and GFP–Ara7. Ring‐like structures emerged following the punctate organelles (FIG-REF and FIG-REF), which were also seen in the case of Ara6–GFP and GFP–Ara7. At 3 h after labeling, vacuolar membranes became fluorescent and, at 8 h, >85% of cells showed vacuolar membrane staining (FIG-REF). After 16 h of incubation, FM4‐64 was completely transported to the vacuole (FIG-REF). These results strongly support the notion that Ara6 and Ara7 are localized to the organelles in the early step of the endocytic pathway. [[FIGURE]] To confirm the endosomal localization of Ara6–GFP, we examined Ara6–GFP and FM4‐64 simultaneously. Arabidopsis protoplasts transiently expressing Ara6–GFP were labeled with FM4‐64, incubated for 30 min and viewed with a confocal microscope. At this time point, FM4‐64 stained only the organelles in the early endocytic pathway (FIG-REF). As shown in FIG-REF, the small motile dots and the ring‐like structures visualized by Ara6–GFP were both stained with FM4‐64. This demonstrates that the organelles where Ara6–GFP resides are indeed early endosomes. Interestingly, Ara6–GFP was not localized on all early endosomes visualized by FM4‐64 (FIG-REF). Ring‐like structures, which were marked by FM4‐64 but barely stained by Ara6–GFP, were also observed (FIG-REF). These findings suggest that Arabidopsis has at least two distinctive populations of early endosomes. [[FIGURE]] Next we investigated whether the mutations of Ara6 and Ara7 that alter their characteristics as GTPases affect their intracellular localization. We first constructed GFP fusions of Ara6Q93L and Ara7Q69L, which correspond to RasQ61L (CITATION) and are expected to be stabilized in the GTP‐bound state. When these fusion proteins were expressed in Arabidopsis cells, predominant fluorescence was observed on aggregates of ring‐like structures, the vacuole membrane and small dots (FIG-REF). Fluorescence on the plasma membrane was also observed in some populations of cells expressing GFP–Ara6Q93L (FIG-REF). In contrast, Ara7Q69L–GFP never stained the plasma membrane. We again performed a double‐labeling experiment, and confirmed that aggregating vesicles were positive for both markers before the large central vacuole became stained with FM4‐64 (FIG-REF). These results suggest that the constitutive active mutants of Ara6 and Ara7 accelerate the fusion of early endosomes to form aggregates of larger membrane structures. These aggregating membranes may well represent late endosomes or the pre‐vacuolar compartment, which are promoting fusions further and forming even larger vacuoles. Alternatively, this fluorescence may reflect faulty recycling of the mutant proteins. In the case of mammalian cells, the dominant‐active mutant of Rab5 (Rab5Q79L), which is known as a key regulator of homotypic fusion of early endosomes, also promotes the formation of larger endosomes when overexpressed (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Taken together, the above results led us to propose that the novel Rab/Ypt protein, Ara6, functions as a regulator of membrane fusion in the endocytic pathway of Arabidopsis cells. Ara7 should also be a regulator of endocytic membrane fusion. Currently we are examining whether Ara6 and Ara7 function on the same endosome. The endosomal localization of Ara7 seems more stringent than that of Ara6. We will discuss this point further below. The dominant effects of the GTP‐bound mutants also suggest that GFP fusions of Ara6 and Ara7 retain their functions, as is the case for other Rab–GFP fusion proteins (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We also examined the role of N‐terminal fatty acylation in the subcellular localization of Ara6. We constructed GFP‐tagged mutant Ara6 which contained an amino acid substitution in Gly2 and/or Cys3, and expressed them transiently in Arabidopsis cells. Ara6C3S–GFP, which has Gly2 where N‐myristoylation occurs but cannot be a substrate for palmitoylation, was localized mainly on the ER, but not on the endosomes (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). This result indicates that N‐myristoylation can direct Ara6 to the membrane, but palmitoylation is essential for the correct localization to the endosomes. Both Ara6G2A–GFP and Ara6G2A,C3S–GFP were localized in the cytosol and nucleus (FIG-REF), which is the same pattern as found for free GFP (FIG-REF), indicating that N‐myristoylation is essential for membrane binding. Thus, Ara6 is attached to the membrane via N‐terminal fatty acylation, and both N‐myristoylation and palmitoylation are essential for localization of Ara6 on the endosomes. Then, is the N‐terminal region sufficient to locate Ara6 on the endosomes? To answer this question, we analyzed whether the N‐terminal 34 amino acids of Ara6 containing fatty acylation sites could direct the GFP fusion protein to the endosomes. The N‐terminal 34 amino acids of Ara6 were added to the N‐terminus of GFP (N34–GFP), which was then expressed in the suspension cultured cells. As shown in FIG-REF, it was localized mainly on the plasma membrane and occasionally on punctate structures. These results indicate that the N‐terminal region of Ara6 is not sufficient for the predominant endosomal localization. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] As hitherto demonstrated, the N‐terminal sequence of Ara6 is important but not sufficient for localization on early endosomes. In the mutational analysis of Ara6, we found that the nucleotide‐free mutant of Ara6, Ara6N147I, corresponding to the N116I mutant of RasH, did not localize to early endosomes. Interestingly, Ara6N147I–GFP resided predominantly on the plasma membrane like N34–GFP, suggesting that nucleotide binding is also important for the endosomal localization of Ara6 (FIG-REF). To determine the minimal regions of Ara6 that direct endosomal localization, we constructed a chimeric protein consisting of the N‐terminal 34 amino acids of Ara6, the central part of Ara4 (from Lys14 to Ser184) and GFP (N34‐A4–GFP; FIG-REF). This chimera was not localized to the endosomes but on unknown types of small structures (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). GFP–Ara4 yielded patterns of ring‐like structures and bright dots (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). These dots most probably represent the Golgi apparatus as reported previously (CITATION), and the rings may be identical to those visualized by Ara6WT–GFP or FM4‐64. The structures on which N34‐A4–GFP was localized also often looked like rings, but they were smaller in size than the ring‐like FM4‐64‐stained organelles. The identities of these organelles have yet to be determined. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] As a possible region of Ara6 that contains additional targeting information, we looked at its C‐terminal part. The C‐terminal hypervariable region is known to be the determinant of localization for conventional Rab/Ypt proteins (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To examine the role of this part, we replaced the C‐terminal part of Ara4 in the N34‐A4–GFP chimera by the corresponding region of Ara6 containing either eight or 16 amino acid residues (FIG-REF). We expressed these chimeric proteins in Arabidopsis cells, and found that the C‐terminal eight amino acids of Ara6 can localize the chimeric protein (N34‐A4‐C8) to punctate organelles of high motility (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). These motile organelles were labeled by FM4‐64 after 30 min (FIG-REF), demonstrating that N34‐A4‐C8 is localized on early endosomes. The chimera with the C‐terminal 16 amino acids of Ara6 (N34‐A4‐C16) was also localized on the motile endosomes, although some populations occasionally marked the plasma membrane (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). Thus, the C‐terminal eight amino acids of Ara6 could locate the chimeric protein to the early endosomes. In this region, Ara6 shows some similarity to Rab5; three out of eight residues are conserved (FIG-REF). This conserved region may contain common information for early endosome localization. Taking the above results together, Ara6 employs a unique mechanism for localization on early endosomes. N‐terminal fatty acylations, nucleotide binding and the C‐terminal region all appear to be required to determine the subcellular localization of Ara6 in a coordinated fashion.
!~MM~! The full‐length open reading frame (ORF) of ARA6 was amplified by PCR to generate BamHI sites at both ends and subcloned into pGEX‐2T (Pharmacia Biotech, Piscataway, NJ). This recombinant plasmid, which directs synthesis of the Ara6 protein fused to the C‐terminus of GST, was introduced into Escherichia coli. GST–Ara6 was induced by isopropyl‐β‐d‐thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG), purified from the lysate by affinity chromatography on a glutathione–Sepharose 4B column (Pharmacia Biotech) and used to raise a polyclonal antibody in rabbits. The cross‐reactivity of this antibody was tested for lysates from yeast cells expressing ARA6 and ARA7. Immunoblotting analysis detected Ara6 but not Ara7. For the anti‐Ara7 antibody, a synthetic Leu185–Val194 peptide, in which Ara7 shows no homology to any other known Arabidopsis Rab proteins, was used to immunize rabbits. The antibody obtained was purified by protein G affinity column chromatography (Pharmacia Biotech) and was confirmed to have no cross‐reactivity with Ara6. In vitro transcription and translation was carried out with the TNT Coupled Wheat Germ Extract System (Promega, Madison, WI) according to the manufacturer's instructions. For myristoylation assay, linearized ARA6 and ARA6G2A cloned in the pBSIISK+ vector (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA) were used as templates, and 14C‐labeled myristic acid was added to the reaction. After incubation, samples were separated by SDS–PAGE, dried and exposed to the imaging plate for 2 weeks. For palmitoylation assay, linearized ARA6, ARA6C3S and ARA6G2A in pBSIISK+ were used as templates. After the transcription–translation reaction was completed, the Ara6 protein was immunoprecipitated and incubated with the Arabidopsis lysate and 40 μM [14C]palmitoyl CoA (53 mCi/mmol) for 45 min. The immunocomplex was washed, separated by SDS–PAGE, dried and exposed to the imaging plate for 2 weeks. Autoradiograms were visualized with an imaging plate scanner BAS1000 (Fuji Film Co., Tokyo, Japan). As for fractionation, Arabidopsis suspension cultured cells (from Dr M.Umeda) were ground in GR buffer [50 mM HEPES–KOH pH 8.0, 330 mM sorbitol, 2 mM EDTA, 100 μM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (PMSF), 10 μg/ml leupeptin and 10 μg/ml pepstatin A], filtered through four layers of cheesecloth and centrifuged at 1500 g to remove cell debris. Supernatant (S1.5) was centrifuged at 100 000 g for 1 h to separate the crude membrane fraction (P100) from the cytosol (S100). For solubilization of Ara6, the P100 fraction was resuspended in GR buffer plus 1 M NaCl, 2 M urea, 0.1 M Na2CO3 or 1% Triton X‐100 and allowed to stand on ice for 1 h. Samples were then centrifuged at 100 000 g for 1 h to separate soluble from insoluble fractions, and subjected to immunoblotting analysis with an anti‐Ara6 polyclonal or an anti‐Ara4 monoclonal antibody (CITATION). Total cell lysates (S1.5) were prepared as described above from the Arabidopsis suspension cultures collected daily after medium change. Samples were also prepared from young rosettes, adult rosettes, roots, cotyledons, siliques, flower‐bud clusters and stems. Proteins (30 μg for Ara6 and Ara4, and 50 μg for Ara7) were separated by SDS–PAGE and analyzed by immunoblotting. The immune complexes were visualized with the ECL+Plus system (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech, Amersham, UK). Media for yeast cultures were described previously (CITATION). For the expression of ARA6 and ARA7 in yeast, their ORFs were first placed under control of the constitutive TDH3 promoter in pTU1 (CITATION). The fragment containing the TDH3 promoter, ARA6 or ARA7, and the CMK1 terminator was cut out by BamHI and SalI, and subcloned into pRS315, which is a single‐copy plasmid containing the LEU2 marker. Cells of ANS19‐4A (MATa sec19‐1 ura3 leu2 his) (CITATION) were transformed with this plasmid, and further transformed with a plasmid containing AtGDI1 under control of the GAL1 promoter and the URA3 marker (CITATION). Transformants were cultured in minimal galactose medium (MVGS minus uracil and leucine) at 23°C for 6 h, shifted to 37°C for 4 h and then transferred to minimal glucose medium (MVD minus uracil and leucine) or again to minimal galactose medium. Cells were collected after 16 h culture at 37°C, resuspended in Tris‐buffered saline (TBS) containing 1% protease inhibitor cocktail (Sigma, St Louis, MO) and vortexed vigorously with glass beads. After centrifugation at 800 g for 5 min to eliminate debris, samples were adjusted to 5 mg protein/ml and centrifuged at 100 000 g for 30 min to obtain supernatant and pellet fractions. Each sample was analyzed by SDS–PAGE and immunoblotting. Wild‐type and mutant versions of ARA6 and ARA7, which were constructed by PCR‐directed mutagenesis, were fused to the ORF of GFP (from Dr Y.Niwa) in the directions 5′‐ARA6‐GFP‐3′ and 5′‐GFP‐ARA7‐3′. The fusion genes were subcloned into pHTS13 (from Dr H.Tsukaya), which is a derivative of pBSIIKS+ containing the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter and the Nos terminator. Transient expression of GFP‐fused Ara proteins in Arabidopsis suspension cultured cells was performed by the method described previously (CITATION), with minor modifications. Cultured cells were incubated in enzyme solution [0.4 M mannitol, 5 mM EGTA, 1% (w/v) cellulase Y‐C and 0.05% (w/v) pectolyase Y‐23] for 1 h at 30°C under gentle agitation and then passed through a nylon mesh (125 μm pore). Protoplasts were collected by centrifugation at 500 g for 10 min, washed twice with solution A (0.4 M mannitol, 70 mM CaCl2 and 5 mM MES pH 5.7) and resuspended in MaMg solution (0.4 M mannitol, 15 mM MgCl2 and 5 mM MES pH 5.7). After the addition of plasmid and carrier DNA to 100 μl of protoplast solution, 0.4 ml of DNA uptake solution containing 40% (w/v) polyethylene glycol (PEG) 6000, 0.4 M mannitol and 0.1 M Ca(NO3)2 was added. The mixture was placed on ice for 20 min and then diluted with 10 ml of 0.4 M mannitol, 125 mM CaCl2, 5 mM KCl, 5 mM glucose and 1.5 mM MES pH 5.7. Protoplasts were collected by centrifugation at 500 g for 10 min, resuspended in Murashige and Skoog (MS) cell culture medium (CITATION) supplemented with 0.4 M mannitol, and incubated under gentle agitation at 23°C for 16 h in the dark. Transformed cells were observed with a confocal laser microscope system (Olympus BX60 fluorescence microscope equipped with a confocal scanner Model CSU10 of Yokogawa Electric, Tokyo). For immunofluorescent labeling, Arabidopsis protoplasts transiently expressing Ara6–GFP were fixed with 3.7% formaldehyde and permeabilized by 1% NP‐40. The cells were incubated in phosphate‐buffered saline containing 0.1 M glycine and 1% bovine serum albumin and subsequently with anti‐Ara6 antibody. Immunocomplexes were detected by Alexa 568 anti‐rabbit IgG (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR) and observed with a Leica (Heerbrugg, Switzerland) DMIRB/E microscope equipped with a TCS4D confocal scanner, TCS NT software and an Ar/Kr laser. Protoplasts of Arabidopsis suspension cultured cells were incubated with 50 μM FM4‐64 (Molecular Probes) in MS cell culture medium plus 0.4 M mannitol for 10 min on ice, washed with MS medium plus 0.4 M mannitol, and resuspended in the same medium. Cells were incubated for appropriate periods and observed by confocal laser microscopy. ARA6–GFP or its mutant versions was introduced into the protoplasts of Arabidopsis suspension cultured cells as described above. After 16 h incubation in MS cell culture medium containing 0.4 M mannitol, protoplasts were collected by centrifugation, resuspended in MS cell culture medium containing 0.4 M mannitol and 50 μM FM4‐64, and placed on ice for 10 min. After labeling, cells were washed twice, resuspended in the same medium minus FM4‐64 and incubated for 30 min at 23°C. Samples were viewed by confocal laser microscopy. Supplementary data for this paper are available at The EMBO Journal Online.
