!~ABS~! The photoreceptor phytochrome (phy) A has a well-defined role in regulating gene expression in response to specific light signals. Here, we describe a new Arabidopsis mutant, laf1(long after far-red light1) that has an elongated hypocotyl specifically under far-red light. Gene expression studies showed that laf1 has reduced responsiveness to continuous far-red light but retains wild-type responses to other light wavelengths. As far-red light is only perceived by phyA, our results suggest that LAF1 is specifically involved in phyA signal transduction. Further analyses revealed thatlaf1 is affected in a subset of phyA-dependent responses and the phenotype is more severe at low far-red fluence rates. LAF1encodes a nuclear protein with strong homology with the R2R3–MYB family of DNA-binding proteins. Experiments using yeast cells identified a transactivation domain in the C-terminal portion of the protein. LAF1 is constitutively targeted to the nucleus by signals in its N-terminal portion, and the full-length protein accumulates in distinct nuclear speckles. This accumulation in speckles is abolished by a point mutation in a lysine residue (K258R), which might serve as a modification site by a small ubiquitin-like protein (SUMO). 
!~RES~! To identify genes involved in the phyA signal transduction pathway, we screened a collection of independent Arabidopsis gene trap lines, which were generated using the Ds-based system ofCITATION. Mutants with elongated hypocotyls under FR light and/or resistance to FR light-induced killing were selected (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The progeny of putative mutants was tested under continuous FR and red (R) light conditions, and only mutants with long hypocotyls under FR light were considered to be specifically impaired in phyA signaling. Here, we describe the isolation and characterization of one such mutant, calledlaf1 (long after far-red light 1).  The mutant laf1 is defective in several seedling responses when grown under continuous FR light. FR suppresses hypocotyl elongation in both the wild-type (WT) and the laf1 mutant, but this response was reduced significantly in the latter (Fig.1). In contrast, a phyA photoreceptor mutant (phyA) is completely blind to FR, resulting in long hypocotyls under these conditions (Fig. 1; CITATION;CITATION). The suppression of hypocotyl elongation in R (Fig. 1A,B), white (W; Fig. 1A), and blue (B) light (data not shown) was not altered in laf1. Mutant seedlings also showed a normal etiolated phenotype when grown in the dark (D; Fig. 1A,B).  [[FIGURE]] The ability to green in white light after a prolonged FR light treatment is a specific feature of mutants defective in the phyA photoreceptor or blocked in phyA signaling (CITATION). We tested laf1 for its ability to green after exposure to different fluencies of FR light. At FR fluencies lower than 2 μmole/m2 sec, laf1 seedlings were resistant to the FR-induced killing, whereas under fluencies higher than 2 μmole/m2 sec they were sensitive and died. This is in contrast with WT seedlings, which were sensitive to FR fluencies even lower than 2 μmole/m2 sec (data not shown). Under FR light, WT plants synthesize anthocyanin, whereas phyA mutants are blocked in this process (CITATION). We tested for anthocyanin accumulation in laf1 seedlings grown under three different FR fluencies (1.5, 3, and 6 μmole/m2 sec). Althoughlaf1 was able to synthesize anthocyanin under all three light conditions, the levels were reduced by 40%–50% compared with WT (data not shown).  We also examined other seedling responses triggered specifically by phyA, such as FR-dependent apical hook opening, cotyledon unfolding and expansion, and gravitropism (for review, see CITATION; CITATION). These responses were not altered in laf1 in comparison with WT over a range of fluencies. Furthermore, there was no obvious adult phenotype in laf1 plants, other than the fact that mutant plants appear to have a slightly shorter inflorescence than WT. This did not affect the flowering time of laf1, which was very similar to that of the WT when measured under long day (16 h day/8 h night) conditions.  The loss of responsiveness to FR observed in laf1 could, in principle, result from a reduction in phyA levels or spectral activity. No difference in phyA protein levels between WT and laf1 was observed in etiolated seedlings (data not shown), and the mutation is not linked to the phyA locus. These results, together with the fact that laf1 is impaired only in some FR light/phyA specific responses, indicate that the mutant is not compromised in the perception of FR light but rather in the transduction of its signal.  Genetic analysis showed that the mutant phenotype (i.e., elongated hypocotyls in FR light and partial resistance to FR-induced killing) cosegregated with the kanamycin resistance marker present on the singleDs insertion (CITATION). Backcrosses established that the laf1 mutant phenotype was recessive. The mutation was located on chromosome IV and does not correspond to any other mutation that produces a FR-specific long-hypocotyl phenotype (fhy1, fhy3, fin2, far1, pat1, rsf1/hfr1/rep1, fin219, laf6).  We used the Ds tag in laf1 to clone theLAF1 locus. The nucleotide sequence flanking the insertion was identical to that of a region on chromosome IV containing an ORF that corresponds to a MYB gene previously identified asAtMYB18 (GenBank accession no. Z95744; CITATION). After isolation of the cDNA by RT–PCR and its comparison to the genomic sequence deposited in the database by the ArabidopsisGenome Initiative, we determined that the LAF1 gene contained three exons and two introns (Fig. 2A). TheDs element was inserted in the third exon at nucleotide position 506 from the translation start point.  [[FIGURE]] The LAF1 gene encodes a protein of 283 amino acids with two MYB domains located at the N-terminal region. Each MYB domain consists of an ∼50-amino-acid helix–turn–helix motif, and each contains tryptophan residues in characteristic positions (Fig. 2B). In these respects, LAF1 is similar to the two-repeat (R2R3-type) MYB proteins, more than 130 members of which so far have been identified in theArabidopsis genome (CITATION; CITATION). Overall, LAF1 is most similar to AtMYB19 fromArabidopsis whose function is unknown (Fig. 2B; CITATION).  The steady state level of the LAF1 transcript is very low. Reverse Northern analysis described by CITATIONindicated no strong induction of AtMYB18/LAF1 expression after treatment with hormones or elicitors or exposure to abiotic stresses. The only tissues in which weak expression could be detected were cauline leaves. Using Northern blot hybridization with poly(A) RNA from cauline leaves of WT plants, we could detect a single band of ∼850 nucleotides, which corresponds to the appropriate size of theLAF1 cDNA. No LAF1 transcript could be detected inlaf1 mutant plants even with RT–PCR suggesting thatlaf1 is a true null mutant (data not shown).  To test for complementation, we transformed laf1 with either a LAF1 genomic DNA (1018 bp long) or a LAF1cDNA (852 bp long) under the control of a 35S promoter. Seven independent transgenic lines from each transformation experiment were characterized. Figure 2C shows representative transgenic lines, which display WT hypocotyl lengths under low and high FR fluencies, showing complementation of the mutant phenotype. Interestingly, plants overexpressing the LAF1 gene do not show any clear phenotype under any analyzed light conditions, although the transcript levels are elevated (Fig. 2C).  The third exon of the LAF1 gene, which shows no high sequence homology with any other gene in the databank, was cloned in the antisense orientation under the control of a 35S promoter, and this expression cassette was transferred into WT plants. Four independentLAF1 antisense transgenic lines showed hypocotyl lengths 1.5-fold longer than WT under FR light, but WT hypocotyl lengths under white, R and B light, and in darkness (Fig. 2C). Together, these results confirm that indeed the disruption of the LAF1 gene is responsible for the laf1 mutant phenotype.  Regulation of developmental processes requires fine tuning of gene expression regulating cell elongation and cell differentiation. Previous pharmacological experiments in tomato and soybean cells have indicated that phyA regulates gene expression by at least three pathways: a cGMP-dependent pathway mediating chalcon synthase (CHS) gene expression, a Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent pathway that is necessary for chlorophyll a/b-binding protein (CAB) and ribulosebisphosphate carboxylase small subunit (RBCS) gene expression, and a third pathway, which requires both cGMP and Ca2+/calmodulin to induce plastocyanin (PET E) and ferredoxin:NADP(+) oxidoreductase (PET H) gene expression (CITATION; CITATION). To locate the site of action of LAF1, we performed Northern blot hybridizations with CHS, CAB, and PET Eprobes by using laf1 seedlings grown in the dark followed by exposure to different FR fluencies for 18 h. Figure3 shows that the expression levels of all three target genes were reduced in the laf1 mutant compared with WT. However, the reduction was not as severe as that of thephyA mutant, which was used as a control. These results confirm the morphological phenotype under FR light, showing thatlaf1 is deficient in phyA signaling over a wide range of fluencies.  [[FIGURE]] We also analyzed the expression of CAB, CHS, andXTR7 induced by either R or FR light (Fig.4). CAB gene expression is reduced under FR light conditions in the phyA mutant and under R light conditions in the phyB mutant. In laf1, a reduction in CAB levels can be observed only under FR light.CHS gene expression is dependent on a functional phyA signaling pathway under R and FR light conditions (CITATION), and accordingly it is reduced under R and FR light conditions in laf1. XTR7, which is involved in cell elongation as it encodes a xyloglucan endotransglucosylase-related protein (CITATION), is negatively regulated by phyA and phyB in FR and R light, respectively (CITATION). Expression of XTR7 in thelaf1 mutant was reduced in R light similar to WT, but less reduced in FR light. These data confirm the specificity of LAF1 for phyA-specific pathways. Note that the effects on FR-dependent gene regulation of CAB and XTR7 in the laf1mutant are not strong after 2 h but very pronounced after 18 h.  [[FIGURE]] All MYB transcription factors contain one to three conserved MYB domains at the N terminus where the DNA binding domain resides (CITATION; CITATION). The C terminus, on the other hand, shows a high degree of variability among the various MYB proteins and is suggested to be important for protein–protein interaction. To determine whether LAF1 is a transcriptional activator and to identify the region of this protein responsible for this function, we fused the full-length LAF1 cDNA and LAF1deletion mutants to sequences encoding the GAL4 DNA binding domain. These DNA fusion constructs were tested in yeast for their ability to promote expression of the lacZ and HIS3reporter genes by binding to upstream activation regions. This allows assessment of growth on medium without histidine and measurement of β-galactosidase activity. Figure 5A shows that the full-length GAL4–LAF1 protein has low levels of transcriptional activity, but the C-terminal fragment GAL4–LAF1/113–283 (Ct) showed high levels of activation as measured by growth without histidine and in presence of 30 mM 3-AT. The LAF1 N-terminal fragment (Nt; GAL4–LAF1/1–128) and a C-terminal fragment (CtA; GAL4–LAF1/113–177) alone were unable to transactivate the reporter gene and prevented growth in the absence of histidine. However, GAL4–LAF1/164–232 (CtB) and GAL4–LAF1/217–283 (CtC) promoted better growth without histidine than the full-length LAF1. Only CtC, however, could promote growth in the presence of 30 mM 3-AT, which increased the stringency of the experiment. These results were confirmed by β-galactosidase assays (Fig. 5B). These data show that the C-terminal domain (amino acids 164–283) of LAF1 contains sequences with transactivation function. Furthermore, the results suggest the existence of two possibly distinct transactivation regions, one between amino acid residues 164 and 232 and the other, which shows six times higher β-galactosidase activity, between amino acid residue 217 and the C terminus. As the full-length GAL4–LAF1 fusion shows less activity than the C-terminal fragment alone (∼100-fold reduction in β-galactosidase activity), the results suggest a negative regulatory function associated with the N-terminal part of the protein, which contains the DNA-binding domain.  [[FIGURE]] The predicted LAF1 protein contains three potential monopartite nuclear localization signals (Fig. 6). The presence of these signals and the fact that LAF1 is a MYB-type protein with transcriptional activity suggest that LAF1 might function in the nucleus. We used a LAF1–GFP fusion protein to assay for the subcellular localization of the protein. A 35S–LAF1–GFP construct was transfected into onion epidermis cells by particle bombardment, and the treated onion peels were incubated in the dark or in W light. In contrast with the cytoplasmic/nuclear distribution of the GFP protein, which was used as a control, we found that the LAF1–GFP protein is localized in the nucleus irrespective of the light conditions (Figs.6,7). Moreover, we observed that LAF1–GFP localizes to subnuclear foci (speckles), which are distributed throughout the nucleus.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] This formation of speckles is time dependent. Four to six hours after bombardment of the onion cells with the full-length LAF1–GFPconstruct, GFP staining was evenly distributed throughout the nucleus (Fig. 7C). Nuclear speckle formation was observed only after ∼8–10 h (Fig. 7D,E). At this time point, in ∼90% of the nuclei examined, the GFP signal was detected exclusively in these foci with no significant background signal elsewhere in the nucleus. Four to eight h later, usually no GFP staining was visible. These results suggest that the formation of speckles might precede degradation of the protein.  To test the functions of the putative NLS and the signals that direct the LAF1–GFP fusion protein to nuclear speckles, we made deletion constructs of LAF1 and fused them to the GFP coding sequence. An N-terminal fragment of LAF1 (LAF1/1–70) containing only the R2 domain was sufficient to direct nuclear localization, but the fusion protein did not accumulate in nuclear speckles (Figs. 6,7F). The same result was obtained for LAF1/1–113, LAF1/1–121, LAF1/1–161, and LAF1/1–175 (Fig. 7G). Only the deletion construct LAF1/1–262 again was able to localize to nuclear speckles (Fig. 6).  The C terminus of LAF1 (amino acids 162–283) fused to GFP was no longer able to localize to the nucleus (Figs. 6,7H), and its distribution throughout the cell resembled the localization of the GFP protein alone (Fig. 7K). The most conserved putative nuclear localization signal (NLS) occurs between amino acids 9 and 12 (RHRK). However, an N-terminal deletion of LAF1 (LAF1/14–283) still was able to localize to the nucleus and to speckles (Fig. 6). Furthermore, this putative NLS (ERHRKG; amino acids 8–13) alone could not direct GFP to the nucleus efficiently (data not shown). Therefore, nuclear localization signals other than the one between amino acids 9–12 are needed to direct LAF1 to the nucleus, and these are located between amino acids 14–70, within the MYB domain R2.  Results from our deletion experiments suggest that sequences between amino acids 176 and 260 are responsible for localization to nuclear speckles. Nonetheless, certain sequences at the N terminus of LAF1 are, in addition, necessary for subnuclear localization, as fusion of an NLS from SV40 (APKKKRKVG; CITATION) to LAF1/162–283 caused accumulation in the nucleus but not in speckles (Figs. 6,7I).  Studies in mammalian cells have identified several proteins that localize to nuclear speckles (for review, see CITATION). In a few cases, for example, PML, it has been shown that these proteins accumulate in speckles only when they are conjugated with a ubiquitin-like protein called SUMO (smallubiquitin-like modifier; CITATION). SUMO has been implicated in directing proteins to specific nuclear structures and stabilizing them rather than being involved in protein degradation as is ubiquitin (CITATION; CITATION).  We observed a consensus motif for sumoylation (ΨKXE;CITATION; CITATION) at amino acid residues 257–260 (KKQE), without the hydrophobic amino acid (Ψ) preceding the target lysine (K). A glycine residue, which is usually in the vicinity of a sumoylation signal, can be found five amino acids upstream of this site. As SUMO usually is conjugated to a lysine residue, we mutated K258 to an arginine in the context of the full-length LAF1 protein fused to GFP. The LAF1 (K258R) mutant localized to the nucleus but not to speckles, suggesting that sumoylation plays a role in the localization of LAF1 to nuclear speckles (Figs. 6,7J). 
!~MM~! A collection of ∼4000 Ds insertion mutants ofArabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. var. Landsbergerecta (generated as described by CITATION), was used for genetic screens. The laf1 mutant corresponds to line GT1968. Null mutants of phyA (phyA-201) andphyB (phyB-1) in Ler were used as controls (provided by the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center). Growth conditions and light sources were described in CITATION. Unless otherwise indicated fluence rates were as follows: FR, 3 μmole/m2 sec; R, 35 μmole/m2 sec; W, 15 μmole/m2 sec. Individual lines were screened as described in CITATION. For hypocotyl length measurements, experiments were repeated at least three times, each time measuring more than 20 seedlings per genotype. For Northern blot analysis, 5-day-old etiolated seedlings were either kept in continuous D or transferred into R or FR light for 2 or 18 h.  The laf1 mutant was crossed with WT (Ler), and the F2 progeny was analyzed for kanamycin resistance and thelaf (long after FR light) phenotype. Cosegregation of the two traits was observed among 120 F2 seedlings, indicating a close linkage of a singleDs element insertion and the laf1 mutation.  Plant genomic DNA was isolated using the Genomic-tip-100 Kit according to the manufacturer's protocol (QIAGEN). Total RNA was extracted using the RNeasy Plant minikit (QIAGEN), and 10 μg of total RNA was used to isolate poly(A) RNA with the Oligotex kit (QIAGEN).  DNA sequences flanking the left border of the Ds element were obtained by inverse PCR of genomic DNA from laf1 mutant plants, using the primers and restriction enzymes described inCITATION. PCR was performed with Takara LA Taq (Panvera) as recommended by the supplier. DNA samples were amplified using 35 cycles (94 °C for 20 sec, 60 °C for 30 sec, 68 °C for 8 min) followed by elongation at 68 °C for 10 min. A resulting 400-bp long fragment was cloned into pGEM-Teasy vector (Promega) and sequenced. Database searches were performed at the U.S. National Center for Biotechnology Information or Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR) with the BLAST program (CITATION) and showed that the Ds element was inserted into the third exon of a MYB transcription factor on chromosome IV (GenBank accession no. Z95744).  A 1018-bp genomic clone and a 852-bp cDNA were amplified from a genomic DNA or a cDNA library, respectively, using primers flanking the ORF predicted in the genome database. The cDNA library was made fromArabidopsis seedlings grown under either FR or W light by using the protocol described by the manufacturer for the Marathon cDNA Amplification Kit (Clontech). RT–PCR using this cDNA library confirmed the correct annotation of the predicted ORF in the genebank. Amino acid alignments were performed using the ClustalW program (DNAstar).  Northern blot analyses were performed as described in CITATION. The bands were quantified by a PhosphorImager (Molecular Dynamics) using 18S RNA as internal standard. As a probe forLAF1, the sequence of the third exon was used as a probe.CHS, CAB, and PET E probes were described inCITATION. A 300-bp fragment from the 3′ end of theXTR7 cDNA was used to ensure specificity (CITATION).  A 35S–LAF1–NOS gene cassette in a binary vector containing a basta-resistance gene (CITATION) was used for complementation. Both full-length LAF1 genomic DNA and cDNA were used. Both fragments were generated by using primers to amplify the coding region of LAF1 from the ATG start codon, adding aXhoI site, to the end of the coding region, adding aSpeI site. For the antisense construct, the third exon of theLAF1 gene was expressed in the reverse orientation by using the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter in a binary vector containing a kanamycin-resistance gene (CITATION). The constructs were verified by sequencing. The binary vectors were used to transform WT Ler and laf1 plants by vacuum infiltration (after CITATION). T1 transformants were selected on either basta or kanamycin-containing medium, grown to maturity, and selfed. Ten independent transgenic lines were generated with the construct containing the genomic DNA, seven with the cDNA and 10 with the antisense sequence. The presence of the transgene transcript was verified by Northern blot hybridizations. Homozygous T3 seedlings were analyzed for physiological responses.  Full-length LAF1 cDNA and deletion mutants were amplified by PCR, and appropriate restriction sites (5′ BamHI, 3′NheI) were introduced. PCR was performed using PfuDNA polymerase (Stratagene) and appropriate primers under the conditions described by the manufacturer. The oligonucleotides used for LAF1/1–283 were (5.1) 5′-CTCTGGATCCATGGCGAAGAC GAAATATGG-3′ and (3.1) 5′-GACCGCTAGCTTACGTCGT TGTTGATGGAG-3′, for Nt (LAF1/1–128) (5.1) and 5′-GACC GCTAGCGGGAAATAGATTTTGCATC-3′, for Ct (LAF1/113–283) (5.2) 5′-CTCTGGATCCAGAAATGGCTCAAGTC TC-3′ and (3.1), for CtA (LAF1/113–177) (5.2) and 5′-GACCGC TAGCATTGATGGCTGTTATTTCCG-3′, for CtB (LAF1/164–232) 5′-CTCTGGATCCCTTCATCTCCCTCACAAGAAAG 3′ and 5′-GACCGCTAGCCTGATCAACATCACCCATTTC 3′, and for CtC (LAF1/217–283) 5′-CTCTGGATCCTGTC GAAGAGACTCTCTCAG-3′ and (3.1). Inserts were fused in-frame to sequences encoding the Gal4 DNA binding domain by cloning them into pGBT8 (Clontech).  We used the yeast strain HF7c, which contains the LacZ andHis3 reporter genes under the control of GAL4 17 mers (×3) or GAL1 UAS, respectively (CITATION). Yeast LiAc-mediated transformation and β-galactosidase liquid culture assays using o-nitrophenyl β-D-galactopyranoside (ONPG) were performed as described in the Clontech Yeast Protocols Handbook (Palo Alto, CA). The synthetic dropout (SD) medium was used either alone or with addition of 40 mg/L histidine (HIS) or 30 mM 3-AT.  The GFP coding sequence (CITATION) was fused in-frame to the 3′ end of the LAF1 cDNA. LAF1 cDNA was generated by using primers to amplify the coding region from the ATG start codon (LAF1–ATG Xho 5′-CTCGAGATGGCGAAGACGAAA TATGG-3′) with an additional XhoI site, to the TAA stop codon (LAF1–TGA Kpn 5′-GGTACCCGTCGTTGTTGATGGAG-3′) adding a KpnI site whereas deleting the stop codon. C-terminal deletions of LAF1 were generated by the same method using the LAF1–ATG Xho primer and variable reverse primers: LAF1/1–262 (5′-GGTACCATGATGCTCCTGCTTCTTACATTTGG-3′), LAF1/1–175 (5′-GGTACCGCTGTTATTTCCGTTGCTTTC-3′), and LAF1/1–161 (5′-GGTACCGTTCTCTAGAAGTCTCTGG-3′). To amplify the constructs LAF1/1–70 and LAF1/1–121, we used a 5′ primer that contained anXbaI site instead of an XhoI site, and the 3′ primers were 5′-CTCGAGTGCACTAATCAT ATCCCTCTTTAACC-3′ and 5′-CTCGAGTTGTAAGCTCT GAGACTTGAGC-3′, respectively, introducing anXhoI site. For the N-terminal deletions, variable 5′ primers were used together with LAF1–TGA Kpn: LAF1/14–283 (5′-CTCGAGAT GTTATGGTCACCTGAAGAAGACG-3′) and LAF1/162–283 (5′-CTCGAGATGAAATCTTCATCTCCCTCACAAGAAAGC3′). To generate the LAF1/8–13 fragment, we annealed two oligonucleotides (5′-CTAGATGGAGAGACATAGGAAAGGGC 3′ and 5′-TCGAGCCCTTTCCTATGTCTCTCCAT-3′), encoding the amino acid residues MERHRKG. To generate the SV40-NLS, we annealed the following oligonucleotides: 5′-CTAGAA CAATGGCTCCCAAGAAGAAGAGAAAGGTAC-3′ and 5′-TCGAGTACCTTTCTCTTCTTCTTGGGAGCCATTGTT-3′, encoding the amino acid residues MAPKKKRKVG (CITATION). The two NLSs, LAF1/1–70 and LAF1/1–120, were cloned either into a vector containing only the GFP gene (CITATION) or upstream of the LAF1/162–283–GFP construct utilizing the XbaI andXhoI restriction sites. The K258R mutation in the context of LAF1/1–283 was generated by using a primer (5′-ATGATGCTCCTGCCTCTTACATTTGGAACC-3′) that introduced the point mutation in the appropriate position and the GeneEditor system (Promega).  Onion epidermal cells were transfected with DNA constructs containing the different LAF1–GFP fusions by using a helium biolistic gun (CITATION). Unless stated otherwise, treated epidermal cells were kept in the dark for 6–16 h until the GFP localization was evaluated using an Axioskop microscope (Carl Zeiss). 
