!~ABS~! Phytochromes are plant photoreceptors that regulate plant growth and development with respect to the light environment. Following the initial light-perception event, the phytochromes initiate a signal-transduction process that eventually results in alterations in cellular behavior, including gene expression. Here we describe the molecular cloning and functional characterization of Arabidopsis FHY1. FHY1 encodes a product (FHY1) that specifically transduces signals downstream of the far-red (FR) light-responsive phytochrome A (PHYA) photoreceptor. We show that FHY1 is a novel light-regulated protein that accumulates in dark (D)-grown but not in FR-grown hypocotyl cells. In addition, FHY1 transcript levels are regulated by light, and by the product of FHY3, another gene implicated in FR signaling. These observations indicate that FHY1 function is both FR-signal transducing and FR-signal regulated, suggesting a negative feedback regulation of FHY1 function. Seedlings homozygous for loss-of-function fhy1 alleles are partially blind to FR, whereas seedlings overexpressing FHY1exhibit increased responses to FR, but not to white (WL) or red (R) light. The increased FR-responses conferred by overexpression ofFHY1 are abolished in a PHYA-deficient mutant background, showing that FHY1 requires a signal from PHYA for function, and cannot modulate growth independently of PHYA. 
!~RES~! We cloned FHY1 using a map-based approach (Fig.1A; Materials and Methods). FHY1was mapped to the bottom of chromosome 2, between markers ve017 and DET2 (CITATION; CITATION). Further recombinant mapping using markers from yeast and bacterial artificial chromosome (YAC and BAC) clones locatedFHY1 on BAC F16C5 (see Materials and Methods). TheFHY1 genomic region was sequenced (GenBank accession no.AC004684) and contains several putative open reading frames (ORFs) (Fig. 1A). A contig of cosmids covering ORFs 9–16 did not complement the fhy1-1 mutant (data not shown). In addition, a single telomeric chromosome breakpoint was detected using an ORF-21-derived RFLP marker, thus excluding ORFs 22–24 from being FHY1. We therefore sequenced ORFs 17–21 from the fhy1-1 allele and from the WT progenitor and identified a single base pair deletion in ORF 18 of fhy1-1 (Fig. 1A), thus permitting the tentative identification of FHY1.  [[FIGURE]] Further screens for mutants exhibiting a FR-specific elongated hypocotyl phenotype had resulted in the identification of the fast-neutron-generated fhy1-2 allele (Materials and Methods). Molecular analysis using an FHY1 probe detected an altered restriction fragment pattern in fhy1-2 genomic DNA (Fig. 1B). Further analysis of fhy1-2 revealed that this mutation is caused by an inversion of an ∼550-kb DNA fragment from chromosome 2. This inversion interrupts FHY1 and disrupts the FHY1ORF (data not shown). In addition, FHY1 transcripts were detected in FHY1, at reduced level in fhy1-1 plants, but not in fhy1-2 plants (Fig. 1C). These observations suggest that fhy1-2 is a loss-of-function allele of FHY1. Furthermore, because the FR-response phenotypes conferred byfhy1-1 and fhy1-2 are indistinguishable (data not shown), it is likely that fhy1-1 (which potentially encodes a prematurely truncated protein; see below) is also a loss-of-function allele of FHY1. Final proof that the gene tentatively identified as FHY1 is indeed FHY1 was obtained via genetic complementation. When grown in cFR, the fhy1-2 mutant displays an elongated hypocotyl and unexpanded cotyledons (Fig. 1D). A 2.1-kb genomic fragment, spanning 795 bp upstream to 304 bp downstream of the FHY1 coding sequence, fully complementedfhy1-2, conferring a phenotype resembling that of the wild-type control (short hypocotyl and expanded cotyledons in cFR; Fig. 1D).   FHY1 encodes a predicted polypeptide (FHY1) of 23 kD (202 amino acids) that is rich in serine and glutamic acid residues (Fig.2A). FHY1 has no obvious overall similarity to any protein of known function, and contains putative nuclear localization sequence (NLS) and nuclear export sequence (NES) domains (Fig. 2A; CITATION). fhy1-1 lacks a single adenine residue 671 bp downstream of the FHY1 start codon, resulting in a premature STOP codon (Fig. 2A). Database searches revealed the existence of a second Arabidopsis ORF that encodes a predicted protein that is related in sequence to FHY1, together withFHY1-related ESTs from soybean and tomato (data not shown). Interestingly, FHY1 contains a region of shared homology with part of the PHYA PAS-A domain (Fig. 2B; CITATION). The biological significance of this shared homology is unknown, because it does not overlap with the region of the PAS domain that is conserved in PAS-domain proteins involved in a variety of roles from photoperception to circadian clock function (CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] It seemed likely that seedling FHY1 levels are related to morphogenesis in cFR, for the fhy1-1 loss-of-function allele confers a cFR-specific elongated hypocotyl phenotype (CITATION). We addressed this possibility in two ways. First, we investigated the environmental and genetic factors that regulateFHY1 gene expression. Second, we studied the effect of increased expression of FHY1 on morphogenesis in cFR (see below).  We examined FHY1 mRNA levels in seedlings grown in cD and in various light conditions: cWL, cR, and cFR (Fig.3A). In wild-type seedlings, FHY1mRNA levels accumulated to higher levels in cD than in any light condition, suggesting that light negatively regulates FHY1gene expression. In cFR, but not in cWL or cR, FHY1 transcript levels were higher in PHYA-deficient phyA-201 seedlings than in wild-type seedlings (Fig. 3A). Therefore, PHYA reduces FHY1mRNA levels in cFR, and other photoreceptors do the same in cWL and cR.  [[FIGURE]] When etiolated wild-type seedlings were moved into cFR, FHY1transcript levels decreased within an hour of exposure, and then remained unchanged (Fig. 3B). This response was not observed inphyA-201 seedlings (Fig. 3B), and is therefore PHYA-dependent. This rapid PHYA-dependent down-regulation of FHY1 mRNA levels indicates the existence of a negative feedback loop, whereby PHYA influences the abundance of FHY1 transcripts, and possibly of FHY1 itself (see below).  Like the fhy1-1 and fhy3-2 single mutants, thefhy1-1 fhy3-2 double mutant displayed a reduced cFR response (Fig. 3C). However, the cFR-grown fhy1-1 fhy3-2 hypocotyl was only slightly longer than that of fhy1-1 (in both standard and nonsaturating cFR conditions; Fig. 3C; data not shown), and a strongly synergistic, cFR-blind phenotype was not observed. This observation suggests that FHY1 and FHY3 may act in the same pathway, and that, in addition to the FHY1–FHY3 pathway, additional pathways may mediate the cFR response. Alternatively, FHY1 and FHY3 may act in separate pathways. We investigated FHY1 mRNA levels in fhy3-2seedlings (Fig. 3A). In all conditions, fhy3-2 seedlings accumulated less FHY1 transcript than did wild-type seedlings, showing that FHY3 positively regulates FHY1 mRNA levels, and suggesting that FHY1 acts downstream of FHY3. Furthermore,fhy3-2 seedlings still exhibited light-dependent reductions inFHY1 mRNA levels (Fig. 3A), suggesting that these reductions are not FHY3-dependent.  Because cFR and FHY3 have opposite effects on FHY1transcript levels, FHY1 expression in a phyA-201 fhy3-2 double mutant was investigated. In cFR, FHY1 mRNA levels in phyA-201 fhy3-2 were intermediate between those ofphyA-201 and fhy3-2, and were similar to those of wild type (Fig. 3A). This suggests that PHYA and FHY3 regulateFHY1 transcript levels independently of each other.  The above observations on FHY1 expression present a paradox: reductions in FHY1 function (in fhy1loss-of-function mutants) reduce the cFR response, but apparent reductions in FHY1 function (via reduced FHY1transcript levels) are also part of the cFR response. To resolve this paradox we investigated the consequences of increasing FHY1expression (in a way that was not subject to down-regulation by light).fhy1-2 plants that expressed FHY1 under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter had elevated FHY1 transcript levels in cD, cWL, and cFR (Fig. 4A). These plants exhibited an enhanced cFR response, being more deetiolated in cFR than wild-type plants (Fig. 4B,C). Therefore, overexpression ofFHY1 enhances the FR response above that of wild-type plants. To determine if this effect was FR-specific, plants overexpressingFHY1 were also grown in cD, cR, and cWL (Fig. 4C,D,E, respectively). In all cases, FHY1-overexpressing plants were indistinguishable from wild-type controls, thereby showing that the effect of FHY1 overexpression is light-dependent and FR-specific. Furthermore, these observations suggest that the paradox outlined above can be resolved if FHY1 function is (in normal plants) subject to negative feedback regulation via PHYA at the transcriptional level (as shown above).  [[FIGURE]] We investigated the effect of FHY1 overexpression in the PHYA-deficient phyA-201 mutant. As shown in Figure5A, phyA-201 plants containing the35S::FHY1 construct are blind to cFR, and indistinguishable from control phyA-201 plants. To confirm that these plants were expressing the 35S::FHY1 construct, RNA gel-blot analysis showed that the phyA-201 35S::FHY1 line accumulatedFHY1 transcripts to levels comparable with that seen in the control 35S::FHY1 line (Fig. 5B). Therefore, overexpression ofFHY1 causes enhanced cFR responses in the presence (Fig.4B,C), but not in the absence (Fig. 5A), of PHYA. FHY1 cannot influence growth in the absence of a signal from PHYA, suggesting that the enhanced FR responses of plants overexpressing FHY1 (in the presence of PHYA) are attributable to a FHY1overexpression-dependent enhancement of the PHYA signal.  [[FIGURE]] In further experiments, we investigated the consequences ofFHY1 overexpression in mutant plants containing a partially defective PHYA (Fig. 5C). The phyA-3 and phyA-4alleles encode mutant PHYA polypeptides whose function is reduced, but not completely abolished. For example, phyA-3 confers a hypocotyl that is taller than wild type, but shorter than that conferred by the phyA-201 null allele in high-intensity cFR (Hi-cFR), indicating that PHYA-3 function is reduced compared with that of PHYA (Fig. 5C). In low-intensity cFR (Lo-cFR), the phyA-3and phyA-201 hypocotyls are of a more similar length (Fig.5C). When the 35S:FHY1 construct was introduced intophyA-3, it partially suppressed the cFR phenotype ofphyA-3. In Hi-cFR conditions, the phyA-3 35S::FHY1line (043) had shorter hypocotyls than the phyA-3 controls, an effect that was less apparent in Lo-cFR (Fig. 5C). These effects are cFR-dependent, because, when grown in cD, these lines were fully etiolated (data not shown). Furthermore, the 35S::FHY1construct also suppressed the phenotype of phyA-4 (data not shown), indicating that FHY1 overexpression suppresses the general effects of a reduced PHYA signal, rather than any specific effects of the individual mutant PHYA alleles. These observations suggest that overexpression of FHY1 enhances responses to a reduced PHYA signal.  The intracellular localization of FHY1 was investigated using plants containing a transgene construct that expressed a FHY1–GFP fusion protein under the control of the FHY1 promoter. Preliminary experiments showed that this construct complemented the fhy1-2phenotype, thus showing that the FHY1–GFP fusion protein has FHY1 function (data not shown).  Fluorescence microscopy was used to determine the intracellular location of the FHY1–GFP fusion protein. As shown in Figure6, strong fluorescence was observed in the nuclei of the hypocotyl cells of cD-grown FHY1–GFP-expressing plants, but not in hypocotyl nuclei of cFR-grown FHY1–GFP-expressing plants, or of cD- or cFR-grown control (nontransgenic) plants. In addition, as shown in Figure 7A, weak fluorescence was also observed in the cytoplasm of the hypocotyl cells of cD-grown FHY1–GFP-expressing plants. This fluorescence was clearly brighter than the background fluorescence seen in nontransgenic controls (Fig.7A). Therefore, FHY1–GFP is distributed (in a manner similar to that of GFP itself; Fig. 7A) between the nucleus and the cytoplasm of cD-grown hypocotyls, although the nuclear fluorescence is stronger than that of the cytoplasm. In further experiments, we looked to see if the nuclear localization of FHY1–GFP would change rapidly following transfer of seedlings from cD to cFR (Fig. 7B). These experiments showed that the nuclear fluorescence attributed to FHY1–GFP was still detectable 2 h after transfer to cFR. In addition, there appeared to be a slight increase in cytoplasmic fluorescence following 2 h of cFR. However, the fact that clear nuclear fluorescence was retained following the 2-h cFR treatment suggests that nuclear FHY1–GFP is not rapidly relocalized or destroyed following transfer of hypocotyls from cD to cFR. Additional experiments showed that fluorescence due to FHY1–GFP in seedlings first grown in cD is reduced by subsequent light treatments of longer duration. We observed that 24 h of cFR was needed to reduce the fluorescence to almost undetectable levels (data not shown). Interestingly, treatments with cB, cR, or cWL resulted in a more rapid loss, with fluorescence essentially disappearing between 4 and 12 h of the onset of exposure (data not shown).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Throughout this paper, the wild type is Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Landsberg erecta. phyA-201, fhy1-1, andfhy3-1 are as described (CITATION; CITATION). fhy1-2 and fhy3-2 were identified in a fast-neutron mutagenized wild-type population (Lehle Seeds, Round Rock, TX). phyA-3 and phyA-4 (named according to CITATION) were identified in an ethyl methane sulfonate-mutagenized wild-type population, and contain missense alleles that confer a substantial reduction in, but not complete loss of, PHYA function (data not shown). All putative double-mutant homozygotes were test-crossed to both parents to confirm their genotypes.  Mapping populations were generated by crossing fhy1-1(Landsberg erecta background) with wild type orcop1-6 (Columbia background). DNA from fhy1-1homozygote F2 or F3 plants was analyzed with cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence (CAPS; CITATION) and simple sequence length polymorphism (SSLP; CITATION) markers. FHY1 (FHY1 sequence has been deposited in GenBank, accession no. AF432142).was mapped to the bottom of chromosome 2, with 714 and 1708 recombinant chromosomes identified between FHY1 and the markers cop1-6 andnga168, respectively. We designed a CAPS marker with the geneDET2 (CITATION; GenBank accession no. U53860) (DdeI cleavage of a PCR product amplified with primers 5′-AAATCCAATACCGGCCCAA GACCA-3′ and 5′-AAATCCAATACCGGCCCAAGACCA-3′). Analysis of the recombinant chromosomes enabled us to placeFHY1 between the markers ve017 and DET2. With these two markers and published data (CITATION; CITATION), we constructed a new yeast artificial chromosome (YAC) map of the region. Total yeast DNA from the selected CIC YACs (CITATION) and yUP (CITATION) clones was extracted according to CITATION. The YAC-ends CIC10E10-R, CIC5G4-L, CIC5G4-R, and yUP2C12-L were isolated by inverse PCR for the right end or by plasmid rescue for the left end (CITATION) and converted into RFLP markers. Nylon filters spotted with the IGF (CITATION,CITATION) and TAMU (CITATION) bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) libraries of Arabidopsis Col0 genomic DNA were screened with the 32P-labeled yUP2C12-L marker. The relative positions of the BACs were determined by using BAC-end derived markers isolated as described (http://www.tigr.org/tdb/at/atgenome/atgenome.html), aBamHI subclone of the BAC F16C5 (B4-1), a PCR product of theACT1 gene (which corresponds to ORF 12 in Fig. 1; amplified with primers 5′-TGTAGCGCTTTTGTGTCCTTATGG-3′ and 5′-CGGCTT GAGAAATGGTCGGA-3′), and the yUP6B10-R fragment. Analysis of the cop1-6/fhy1-1 recombinants showed that B4-1, an RFLP marker derived from BAC F16C5, mapped centromeric to FHY1, thus showing that F16C5 covers FHY1.  The CD4-14 λZapII cDNA library (CITATION) was screened with a fragment of the second exon of FHY1 (PCR-amplified with primers 18-9R, 5′-TCACATGATCATAAG TAGTAGTAAA-3′; and 18-5F, 5′-CCAGAGGACAGAACAAA CTTAGCA-3′). Fourteen positive clones were isolated from ∼8.5 × 105 pfu, of which 11 were sequenced. These cDNAs represented a single gene (FHY1). Total RNA was extracted from cD-grown wild-type seedlings, and 5′-RACE (CITATION) was performed using the Marathon kit (Stratagene) and primer 18-5F. PCR products were cloned into the pGEM-T easy vector (Promega), and two clones were sequenced. The FHY1 transcript contains an in-frame STOP codon upstream of the first ATG, suggesting that the FHY1 ORF (Fig. 1) represents the complete FHY1 protein.  For molecular complementation with constructs containing FHY1, plant transformations were as described (CITATION).  DNA sequencing was performed using the Big Dye terminator cycle sequencing kit (Perkin Elmer). Total RNA was separated on denaturing gels and transferred onto Hybond-NX (Amersham). An 18-5F/18-9R PCR fragment was cloned into the pGEM-T easy vector (Promega), and used to make an [α-32P]UTP-labeled RNA probe (Riboprobe systems, Promega). The ribosomal control was as in CITATION.  In vitro seedling growth medium was as described in CITATION, but without sugar. For FR, light sources were FL20S.FR74 bulbs (Toshiba), output filtered through black plexiglass (A.S.H Filters Ltd, UK); for R, FL20SS.BRN/18 bulbs (Toshiba, Japan), output filtered through Fire-red filter (Lee Filters, UK), intensity 3 W/m2; for WL, as described in CITATION. Light intensities were measured with a Li-Cor model LI-185-B radiometer with a Li-Cor pyranometer probe.  A PCR product, amplified from a subclone of BAC F16C5 using primers 18-19R (5′-AAGATCTATGCCTGAAGTGGAAGTG-3′; containing a BglII site) and 18-8F (5′-CAGGGATACTCTT GAACA-3′), was cloned in the pGEM-T easy vector (Promega), isolated as a BglII/SacI fragment, and inserted behind the CaMV 35S promoter in aBamHI/SacI opened pBIN121 derivative vector. The construct was introduced into fhy1-2, phyA-3, andphyA-4 mutants. Transformants were kanamycin-selected, and the progeny were tested in cFR. Transformants grown in cD were indistinguishable from untransformed controls. A phyA-4transformant was crossed with phyA-201; F2 and F3 progeny of this cross were screened for plants homozygous for both the phyA-201 mutation and the transgene.  The FHY1 gene and 795 bp of upstream sequence were amplified by PCR from a genomic DNA clone, inserted upstream of, and in frame with, the GFP4 coding sequence in a pBIN121 derivative vector, and then transformed into fhy1-2. Seedlings (progeny of primary transformants) were examined under UV light with a Leica DMRXA microscope equipped with filter A (Leica) and filter XF115 (Omega Optical) for GFP and DAPI (4‘,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole) fluorescence, respectively. For DAPI staining of the nuclei, seedlings were dipped in isopropanol for a few seconds, rinsed in water, stained in DAPI (1 μg/mL) for 5 min, washed 2 min in water, and mounted on a microscope slide. Images were acquired using a SPOT camera (Diagnostic Instruments). For the photographs in Figure 7, A and B, the transgenic and control seedlings were mounted side by side on the same slide, and both photographs were taken with the same microscope and camera settings. The 35S::GFP line is in the WS background. 
