!~ABS~! The thylakoid membrane of the chloroplast is the center of oxygenic photosynthesis. To better understand the function of the luminal compartment within the thylakoid network, we have carried out a systematic characterization of the luminal thylakoid proteins from the model organism Arabidopsis thaliana. Our data show that the thylakoid lumen has its own specific proteome, of which 36 proteins were identified. Besides a large group of peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerases and proteases, a family of novel PsbP domain proteins was found. An analysis of the luminal signal peptides showed that 19 of 36 luminal precursors were marked by a twin-arginine motif for import via the Tat pathway. To compare the model organismArabidopsis with another typical higher plant, we investigated the proteome from the thylakoid lumen of spinach and found that the luminal proteins from both plants corresponded well. As a complement to our experimental investigation, we made a theoretical prediction of the luminal proteins from the whole Arabidopsisgenome and estimated that the thylakoid lumen of the chloroplast contains ∼80 proteins. 
!~RES~! WhileArabidopsis is an excellent model organism for molecular biological studies, biochemical work has been difficult due to the small leaf size and the small amount of material. The introduction of a hydroponical culture made it possible to overcome this drawback and to grow plants with considerably larger leaves that provided sufficient amounts of plant material in a high quality well suited for biochemical preparations. An essential element in this technique was the restriction of light to 8 h/day, which enabled us to grow the plants for 13 weeks without flowering. Using Arabidopsis plants cultivated in this way, we were able to purify the luminal fraction in the same high quality as was obtained in the original method for the isolation of thylakoid lumen from spinach chloroplasts (CITATION). A typical lumen preparation from Arabidopsis started with 100–200 g of wet weight leaf material and yielded in ∼2 mg protein/100 g of leaves.  An important prerequisite for a concise mapping of the luminalArabidopsis proteins was a reproducible two-dimensional electrophoresis system that was capable of resolving the major part of the luminal proteins. To meet these requirements, we used a combination of nonlinear pH gradients (pH 3–10) and a polyacrylamide gradient gel that allowed us to detect proteins with isoelectric points between 4 and 9 and masses between 200 and 9 kDa. Samples from 14 different lumen preparations were analyzed in more than 20 experiments. The two-dimensional maps of the luminal Arabidopsis proteins showed an excellent reproducibility, and a representative experiment is shown in Fig. 1 A. From the complete set of experiments, 13 two-dimensional gels were selected for a detailed image analysis. The total number of protein spots that were detected on the two-dimensional gels was between 400 and 700, and 277 of those were present on all 13 gels.  [[FIGURE]] The protein pattern of the two-dimensional gel in Fig. 1 Ashows clearly that most proteins were detected in the acidic region of the pH gradient, while the group of basic proteins was relatively small. It should be noticed, too, that there is a distinct gap between the proteins in the acidic and the basic region of the pH gradient, where only few proteins could be detected. Since 80% of the luminal proteins were found in the acidic range of the pH gradient, we analyzed these proteins in more detail using a two-dimensional electrophoresis system with a linear pH gradient from 4 to 7. A typical two-dimensional map of the luminal proteins with isoelectric points in this pH range is shown in Fig. 1 B. An evaluation of the images of 10 independent experiments showed that ∼200 protein spots were present on each two-dimensional gel of the pH range from 4 to 7.  Having established a reproducible two-dimensional map of the chloroplast lumen from Arabidopsis, we systematically analyzed the luminal proteins by both MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry and amino-terminal microsequencing. Using this combination of methods, we were able to determine the amino termini of the mature proteins and to correct errors in the gene models of several proteins. This approach could be successfully applied to 90 protein spots, but others of the 277 spots that were detected in all two-dimensional gels were too weak for an analysis by both mass spectrometry and microsequencing. In total, 49 proteins were detected, and each protein was identified in at least two independent experiments except for the three putative fibrillins with apparent masses at 25.5, 25.3, and 24.7 kDa. Although these proteins were analyzed only once, the identification was specific in each single case, and the corresponding protein spots were detected in all two-dimensional gels analyzed. Hence, there is no doubt that these proteins were correctly identified.  The two-dimensional gel in Fig. 1 A shows that 40 of the 49 identified proteins were detected in the acidic range of the pH gradient, while nine proteins were found in the basic region. The analysis of the proteins by mass spectrometry and microsequencing showed that the major part of the proteins from the luminal fraction was intact. There were only few degradation products found. As Fig.1 B shows, there are two fragments of PsbP1 that were detected in all two-dimensional gels analyzed. In addition, we also detected a degradation product for PsaN, but this fragment occurred less frequently and did not appear in a distinct pattern as those from PsbP1.  One of the principal objectives of this study was to identify a representative group of proteins from the chloroplast lumen of Arabidopsis and to find indications for their possible functions. Hence, it was important to confirm that the proteins that were identified in the luminal fraction from Arabidopsischloroplasts were truly lumen-located. The purification method alone was no proof for a luminal location. As Fig. 1 B shows, we detected among the luminal proteins a putative glyoxylase and the Cyp4 cyclophilin that are putative stroma proteins but were present in similar amounts as known luminal proteins such as TL29 and Hcf136.  To resolve whether the proteins that were identified in the luminal fraction were resident in the chloroplast lumen or not, we performed a concise analysis of their transit peptides. All proteins that are targeted to the chloroplast lumen are synthesized in the cytosol as precursors and cross the chloroplast envelope and the thylakoid membrane in a two-stage import via a stromal intermediate. Accordingly, the signal peptides of luminal precursors comprise two parts, of which one is designed for the transit through the envelope and the second one for the import into the thylakoid lumen. Once the precursor of a luminal protein has reached the chloroplast stroma, the envelope transit region is cleaved off, and the intermediate is routed into the thylakoid lumen by either the Sec pathway or the ΔpH-dependent twin arginine translocation (Tat) pathway. While the Sec machinery is used by proteins that tolerate partial unfolding during the import, proteins that need to be imported in a folded state cross the thylakoid membrane via the Tat complex (CITATION).  The bipartite transit peptides for the import into the thylakoid lumen are a distinguishing feature of the luminal proteins. They are marked by a hydrophilic serine- and threonine-rich region for the transit through the envelope and a thylakoid targeting region with a typical hydrophobic core close to the processing site. In addition, the transit peptides of proteins that are routed by the Tat complex reveal a distinctive twin arginine motif in the beginning of the hydrophobic core region and a highly hydrophobic residue two or three positions after the twin arginine motif. By contrast, the transit peptides of proteins that are translocated by the Sec machinery do not have a twin arginine motif but a single lysine residue next to the amino-terminal end of the hydrophobic core region (CITATION, CITATION).  The transit peptides of all proteins that were identified in the luminal fraction of Arabidopsis chloroplasts were comprehensively analyzed whether or not they revealed the features of bipartite signal peptides. Of the 49 proteins that were identified in the luminal fraction, 35 had, indeed, a bipartite transit peptide. Fig.2 shows the thylakoid targeting regions of these transit peptides aligned with the program ClustalW. The alignment shows that all transit peptides possess a hydrophobic core; 19 signal peptides have a twin-arginine motif that marks them for translocation by the Tat pathway, and 16 have a lysine residue close to the hydrophobic core, which is a characteristic of signal peptides routed by the Sec machinery. Only the D1-processing protease appears to be an exception from this rule and has an arginine instead of lysine residue next to the amino-terminal end of the hydrophobic core.  [[FIGURE]] The only protein for which it was hard to decide whether the transit peptide really contained a targeting signal for the thylakoid lumen was the 20-kDa protein (Q9LXX5). The prepeptide of this protein had a rather indistinct hydrophobic core region and an arginine triplet instead of a conventional twin-arginine motif. To resolve this apparent conflict, we searched the expressed sequence tag databases for homologues and examined their transit peptides. The soybean clone Gm-c1032-2020 and the tomato clone cLET42E20 encoded for full-length homologues of the 20-kDa protein, and both had typical bipartite transit peptides with a plain twin arginine motif (not shown). This ensured that the prepeptide of the 20-kDa protein contained only an unusual variant of the twin arginine motif and, indeed, was a true bipartite transit peptide.  In the case of the 19-kDa protein (P82658), no Arabidopsisgene was available that could be used for an examination of the signal peptide. It could only be mapped to the tentative consensus sequence TC115875 in the Arabidopsis Gene Index, which cannot be used to assess its subcellular location. Hence, we searched the expressed sequence tag databases and found several cDNAs from other plants that encoded the complete precursor of a homologue of the 19-kDa protein. Two representative examples were the tomato cDNA cTOF22B19 and the soybean cDNA Gm-c1013-3374. An analysis of the signal peptides of these homologues demonstrated clearly that they had all features of a bipartite transit peptide (not shown), which indicates that the 19-kDa protein from Arabidopsis is a lumen-located protein as well. The other 14 proteins that were identified in the luminal fraction from Arabidopsis came either from the chloroplast stroma such as the small subunit of ribulose-bisphosphate carboxylase or the thylakoid membrane such as the Ftsh protease or the α- and β-subunits of the ATP synthase. As for the four putative fibrillins and the 26-kDa protein, the subcellular location could not be predicted reliably, and, hence, it was left undecided.  As Table I shows, the entire range of the luminal proteins of Arabidopsis that were identified in this work covers both well established classical proteins such as violaxanthin de-epoxidase and the extrinsic subunits of photosystem II, as well as novel proteins such as the large group of cyclophilins and FKBP-type peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerases. In addition, there are many new proteins for which yet no function is known, such as, for instance, the PsbP domain proteins.  [[TABLE]] The silver-stained two-dimensional gels in Figs. 1, A andB, show clearly that the major proteins in the luminal fraction from Arabidopsis were the isoforms of the extrinsic subunits of photosystem II and of plastocyanin. As shown in Table I, the Arabidopsis genome encodes for two similar forms of each of these proteins, and we identified all of them except for the protein PSP2, which, despite strong efforts, could not be found. Fig.1 B shows plainly that the protein pattern reveals a marked isoelectric heterogeneity for these proteins. The extrinsic protein PSP1, for instance, was found in as many as four spots excluding those two that contained degraded forms of PSP1. However, we have not yet investigated whether this heterogeneity represents post-translational modifications of the single protein or just an artificial effect of the two-dimensional electrophoresis system. Remarkably, we also found a group of six proteins with apparent masses between 15.9 and 35.8 kDa that have a PsbP domain that is related to the extrinsic PsbP protein of photosystem II.  Two further luminal proteins with functions for photosystem II were found. The xanthophyll cycle enzyme violaxanthin de-epoxidase participates in the protection of photosystem II from excess light (CITATION), and Hcf136 is essential for photosystem II assembly (CITATION). The positions of these proteins are marked in Fig. 1, A andB, at the apparent molecular masses of 44.2 and 34.8 kDa. As with the extrinsic subunits of photosystem II, both Hcf136 and violaxanthin de-epoxidase revealed isoelectric heterogeneity and were detected in three different spots (Fig. 1 B). A distinct isoelectric heterogeneity was also observed for the putative ascorbate peroxidase TL29, the pentapeptide protein TL17, and for the 40-kDa protein Q9SSA5 that is a homologue of the TL40 immunophilin of spinach.  Proteases are important regulatory proteins and their presence in the thylakoid lumen was postulated for a long time. DegP and the D1-processing protease were the first proteases that were found to be lumen-located (CITATION, CITATION). In this work, three novel luminal proteases were identified that include a carboxyl-terminal proteinase D1-like protein with an apparent mass of 49 kDa, a DegP-like 36-kDa protein, and the 27-kDa HhoA protease. As Fig. 1 B shows, isoelectric heterogeneity was observed for this group of proteins, too, except for the HhoA protease.  Immunophilins play an important role in protein folding and comprise the largest group of the novel luminal proteins shown in Table I. They consist of two groups. There are three putative cyclophilin-type peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerases (PPIases) that were identified at the apparent molecular masses of 40, 38, and 18.5 kDa and five putative FKBP-type PPIases with apparent molecular masses between 14.7 and 18.5 kDa. It is noteworthy that five of these putative isomerases were basic proteins. Fig. 1 reveals that only the 38-kDa and the 40-kDa proteins that belong to the putative cyclophilin-type PPIases and the 17.5-kDa FKBP-type PPIase isolog were detected in the acidic range of the two-dimensional gels.  As for the other seven luminal proteins that were identified, no functions are known yet. Two pentapeptide repeat proteins were identified, of which TL17 was the first higher plant protein that possessed this motif (CITATION). The 11.6-kDa protein that was found in this study is a novel member of this group. In addition, we identified five further proteins with apparent molecular masses between 15 and 19 kDa that do not reveal any known motifs, patterns, or domains.  SinceArabidopsis is a prominent model organism, we wanted to know if its luminal protein ensemble was representative for other higher plants. The organism of choice for this study was spinach, because the preparation of the luminal content of the spinach chloroplast was thoroughly characterized and known to produce a highly pure fraction of luminal proteins (CITATION). To obtain a typical two-dimensional map of the luminal spinach proteome, a set of nine independent two-dimensional experiments was carried out, and one representative two-dimensional gel is shown in Fig. 3. The protein pattern revealed more than 500 spots, of which ∼250 were detected in all nine two-dimensional experiments. A comparison of Figs. 3 and 1 Ashows that the two-dimensional patterns of the luminal proteins from spinach and Arabidopsis chloroplasts are very similar. As with Arabidopsis, the major part of luminal proteins from spinach was detected in the acidic range of the pH gradient, and there is a similar gap between the acidic and the basic proteins as it was found for the luminal proteins from Arabidopsis. Although the two-dimensional pattern of the lumen proteins from spinach closely resembles the one from Arabidopsis, it is obvious that it reveals considerably less isoelectric heterogeneity.  [[FIGURE]] Since no complete genome is available for spinach, protein identification was mainly carried out by microsequencing, which restricted the analysis of the luminal proteome from spinach to the more abundant proteins. Nevertheless, 25 luminal proteins from the spinach chloroplast were identified, and TableII shows that they correspond well to the luminal proteins from Arabidopsis. All groups of proteins that were found in the thylakoid lumen of Arabidopsis were also identified in the luminal compartment of the spinach chloroplast. Some differences were observed, however. Among the luminal proteins from spinach, we could not identify any isoforms of plastocyanin and the extrinsic photosystem II subunits PsbO and PsbQ. In addition, we did not find any Arabidopsis homologues to the 25.3-kDa protein and polyphenol oxidase. While we could not resolve experimentally if the 25.3-kDa protein was really absent inArabidopsis, we could analyze the luminal content of theArabidopsis chloroplast for the presence of polyphenol oxidase activity. In two preparations of lumen fraction from Arabidopsis, no polyphenol oxidase activity was detectable (data not shown), and, as with garden pea, this enzyme seems not to be present inArabidopsis. However, for 22 of the luminal proteins from the spinach chloroplast, a homologue in Arabidopsis was identified. In addition, there are 12 homologous proteins from garden pea (CITATION) that can be related to both the luminal proteins from spinach and Arabidopsis. All of these data indicate that the luminal compartments of these three plants essentially comprise the same proteins.  [[TABLE]] As a complement to our experimental characterization of the thylakoid lumen from Arabidopsis, we made a theoretical prediction of the luminal proteins from the wholeArabidopsis proteome to estimate the entire number of proteins in the thylakoid lumen. To detect the luminal proteins within the Arabidopsis proteome, we used the bipartite transit peptides as a marker because they contain the information that is necessary to target these proteins to the chloroplast lumen and, hence, are specific for their subcellular location. The prediction was carried out in three steps. First, we screened the latest version of the complete FASTA database of Arabidopsis proteins with the program TargetP for chloroplast-located proteins. From a total number of 25,657 Arabidopsis proteins, 3765 were predicted to have a subcellular location in the chloroplast. In the second stage, we screened the entire TargetP-predicted chloroplast proteome for potential signal peptides using the program SignalP 2.0 and obtained 514 signal peptides that were at least 30 residues in length. Among those, 358 had a length between 50 and 120 residues and thus were candidates for transit peptides of luminal proteins. Finally, the 358 preselected sequences were examined manually for typical features of bipartite transit peptides such as a hydrophilic serine- and threonine-rich amino-terminal region and a hydrophobic domain close to the processing site. In addition, the complete precursors were scanned for the presence of known pattern and profiles to exclude proteins that could not reside in the thylakoid lumen such as ion channels or chlorophyll-binding antennae proteins. To avoid false positives and to keep the number of missed luminal proteins to a minimum, the manual analysis of the SignalP-selected sequences was carried out two times, and conflicts between the two prediction cycles were examined again in each single case. From the 358 sequences that were individually analyzed, 303 were excluded, and 55 were predicted to belong to putative luminal proteins. The result from this evaluation is summarized in Table III, and a summary of the single steps of the prediction is provided in TableIV.  [[TABLE]] [[TABLE]] To evaluate the prediction, we used the 35 experimentally identified luminal proteins for which full-length sequences were available. The 19-kDa protein, for which no gene is known yet, had to be excluded. The TargetP-predicted chloroplast proteome contained 34 of the identified luminal proteins. Violaxanthin de-epoxidase was missed by TargetP, which probably was due to its unusually long transit peptide. From the 34 identified luminal proteins that were present in the predicted chloroplast proteome, 25 were predicted to be lumen-located. The main reason why nine proteins escaped prediction was the preselection of putative luminal proteins with SignalP that failed to recognize these proteins. Remarkably, all of their precursors but one had a signal peptide with a twin-arginine motif, which indicates that we particularly underestimated proteins of the Tat pathway. In summary, the prediction found 25 of the 35 experimentally identified luminal proteins that were present in the Arabidopsis proteome, which was a rate of 71%. If we assume that these proteins are a representative part of the luminal proteome, we can extrapolate from the number of 55 predicted luminal proteins and estimate that the thylakoid lumen comprises ∼80 proteins. 
!~MM~! Plants were cultivated hydroponically according to Norén et al.(CITATION). A. thaliana ecotype Columbia was grown for 13 weeks with 8 h light per day and a light intensity of 100 μmol of photons m−2 s−1, and spinach (Spinacia oleracea) was raised for 5 weeks with 10 h of light per day. The lumen fraction from spinach chloroplasts was isolated according to Kieselbach et al. (CITATION). The luminal content fromArabidopsis chloroplasts was isolated in the same way with the following minor changes. To avoid protein degradation, 1 mm of EDTA was added to the last washing buffer, and 50 μg/ml of Pefablock was added to the thylakoids just prior to the Yedapress treatment. The lumen fraction was concentrated using Centriprep YM-3 concentrators (Millipore Corp.), and protein quantification was carried out according to Bradford (CITATION) using bovine serum albumin as a standard.  The luminal proteins were separated by isoelectric focusing in the first and by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) in the second dimension. The samples for analytical two-dimensional gels contained 100 μg of protein, and those for Western blots for microsequencing contained 200 μg of protein. The luminal proteins were solubilized in 5 m urea, 2 m thiourea, 4% (w/v) CHAPS,1 50 mmdithiothreitol, and 0.8% (v/v) carrier ampholytes (IPG buffer, pH 3–10 nonlinear or 4–7 linear Amersham Biosciences, Inc.) and applied during rehydration to a nonlinear IPG strip, pH 3–10, or a to linear IPG strip, pH 4–7. The strips were allowed to rehydrate overnight at 20 °C and then transferred to IPGphor cup-loading strip holders and covered with paraffin oil. The proteins were focused for 10 min at 300 V followed by a 3-h gradient from 300 to 3500 V and a 30-min gradient from 3500 to 8000 V. The isoelectric focusing was then completed at a constant voltage of 8000 V until 60,000 V-h was reached. Subsequently, the strips were equilibrated first for 15 min in 50 mm Tris-HCl (pH 6.8), 6 m urea, 30% (v/v) glycerol, 2% (w/v) SDS, and 1% (w/v) dithiothreitol and then for 10 min in the same buffer without dithiothreitol but with 2.5% (w/v) iodoacetamide and a trace of bromphenol blue. In the second dimension, SDS-PAGE according to Laemmli (CITATION) was carried out in a gradient slab gel (T = 9–16%) using a Protean II XL system from Bio-Rad. Before the polymerization of the gel, 5 mm of sodium thiosulfate was added to the monomer solution to decrease the background staining with silver. Proteins were detected by silver staining according to Bjellqvist et al. (CITATION). The two-dimensional gels were scanned using an image scanner and evaluated with the Image Master two-dimensional software (both from Amersham Biosciences). The apparent masses of the proteins that were detected on the two-dimensional gels were determined manually or with the Image Master two-dimensional software using identified proteins of known masses as a reference.  MALDI-TOF analysis of in-gel digested proteins was carried out with a Reflex III mass spectrometer from Bruker. The in-gel digests were performed using sequencing grade modified trypsin (Promega) and analyzed as described (CITATION, CITATION). Data base searches were done with the MS BioTools software from Bruker using the Mascot search engine (available on the World Wide Web at www.matrixscience.com). If a protein could not unambiguously be identified by a fingerprint spectrum, its identity was confirmed by a postsource decay analysis of single peptides (CITATION). Amino-terminal microsequencing was carried out with a Procise sequencer from Applied Biosystems. Proteins were sequenced from polyvinylidene difluoride membrane following resolution by two-dimensional electrophoresis essentially as described (CITATION).  The individual analysis of protein sequences by similarity searches (CITATION, CITATION), pattern and profile searches (CITATION, CITATION), alignments (CITATION), and hydrophobicity plots (CITATION) was carried out using the ExPaSy tools (available on the World Wide Web at www.expasy.ch). The prediction of chloroplast-targeted proteins encoded within theA. thaliana genome was performed by subjecting the latest version of the proteome, currently consisting of 25,657 proteins, to an analysis using the program TargetP via the World Wide Web interface (CITATION). The NH2-terminal portion of each protein sequence, not exceeding 140 residues in length, was analyzed by the plant version of TargetP, and all chloroplast-predicted proteins (rank 1–5) were used. The prediction of signal peptides and the peptide cleavage products was performed using the portable version of SignalP-2.0 (CITATION,CITATION). The programs TargetP and SignalP are available on the World Wide Web at www.cbs.dtu.dk/services, and the Arabidopsis proteome is accessible on the Internet atftp://ftp.tigr.org/pub/data/a_thaliana/ath1/SEQUENCES/ATH1.pep. 
