!~ABS~! We have identified a detoxifying efflux carrier from Arabidopsis using a functional cloning strategy. A bacterial mutant, KAM3, is deficient in multidrug resistance and does not survive on medium containing norfloxacin. After transformation of KAM3 cells with an Arabidopsis cDNA library, transformants were selected for restored growth on the toxic medium. One cDNA clone that complemented KAM3 encodes a novel protein with twelve putative transmembrane domains and contains limited sequence homology to a multidrug and toxin efflux carrier from bacteria. We named this Arabidopsis protein AtDTX1 (forArabidopsis thaliana Detoxification 1). A large gene family of at least 56 members encoding related proteins was identified from the Arabidopsis genome. Further functional analysis of AtDTX1 protein in KAM3 mutant demonstrated that AtDTX1 serves as an efflux carrier for plant-derived alkaloids, antibiotics, and other toxic compounds. Interestingly, AtDTX1 was also capable of detoxifying Cd2+, a heavy metal. Further experiments suggest that AtDTX1 is localized in the plasma membrane in plant cells thereby mediating the efflux of plant-derived or exogenous toxic compounds from the cytoplasm. 
!~RES~! We designed a functional cloning strategy to identify putative multidrug efflux carriers from Arabidopsis. An E. colimutant strain, KAM3, lacks AcrAB systems that are multidrug efflux carriers required for multidrug resistance (CITATION). As a result, KAM3 cells do not grow on medium containing 0.05 μg/ml norfloxacin, a substrate of AcrAB efflux systems. We transformed KAM3 by an expression cDNA library of Arabidopsis plants and isolated those cDNA clones that restored the growth of KAM3 mutant on the medium supplemented with norfloxacin. Among the sequenced cDNA clones, one showed limited homology to the MATE family efflux transporters in bacteria. We referred to this cDNA clone as AtDTX1. Others encoded proteins without significant similarity to any known proteins in the data base (data not shown). This study focused on the functional characterization of AtDTX1. To confirm that AtDTX1 cDNA indeed complemented KAM3 mutant, we measured AtDTX1-mediated drug resistance with the KAM3 strain as a negative control. As shown in Fig.1, KAM3 containing empty pTrc99A vector did not grow on medium containing 0.05 μg/ml norfloxacin and 100 μg/ml ampicillin. In contrast, KAM3 transformed with pTrc99A-AtDTX1 grew well. Both strains grew normally on LB medium containing 100 μg/ml ampicillin. This result shows that AtDTX1 protein is capable of detoxifying norfloxacin.  [[FIGURE]] A search for sequences with homology to the AtDTX1 gene led to the identification of a large family of genes in theArabidopsis genome. At least 56 distinct genes were identified that encode proteins with significant sequence similarity toAtDTX1. We refer to these genes as AtDTX1 toAtDTX56. Phylogenetic analysis of this family revealed that members can be further divided into at least five clusters or subfamilies (Fig. 2 A). The first cluster includes AtDTX1 through AtDTX19, the second cluster includes AtDTX20 through AtDTX41, and the third cluster includes AtDTX42 through AtDTX49. The fourth cluster may include AtDTX50 through AtDTX55. The fifth group contains only AtDTX56. The putative proteins in this family range in size from 414 to 539 residues, and hydropathy analyses revealed that they all possess 12 putative transmembrane domains (TMD) except for the third cluster of genes, which encode proteins with 8–13 TMDs. Sequence alignments among the genes in different clusters indicated that the most conserved sequences are CGQA located between TMD2 and 3, and RVSNXLGA located in TMD8 (Fig. 2 B). Concerning the location of AtDTXgenes in the Arabidopsis genome, 21 members are located on chromosome 1; 10 members on chromosome 2; 7 members on chromosome 3; 9 members on chromosome 4; and 9 members on chromosome 5. TheArabidopsis genome initiative numbers showed their chromosome location as listed in Fig. 2 A. Some of these genes are present as tandem arrangements on the chromosomes. The genes in the same tandem array often show higher homology and are grouped in the same cluster/subfamily, suggesting that they may be derived from gene duplication.  [[FIGURE]] AtDTX1 also showed limited homology to several genes in other organisms, including NorM, YdhE, and DinF from bacteria, and ERC1 from yeast (Fig. 2 C). As discussed earlier, NorM and YdhE are MATE family multidrug extrusion transporters. It is not known whether DinF protein functions as an efflux transporter in bacteria (CITATION). Its expression has been shown to be induced by DNA damage (CITATION).ERC1 confers ethionine resistance in yeast, although a direct transport function of ERC1 protein has not been addressed (CITATION). The phylogenetic relationship of AtDTX1 and these MATE-related proteins is presented in Fig. 2 D. According to this phylogeny “tree,” AtDTX1 shares the highest similarity with NorM gene and its homologues.   AtDTX1 gene expression appeared to be ubiquitous. As shown in Fig. 3, AtDTX1 RNA was detected in all organs examined. Its mRNA accumulated in flowers and stems at higher levels as compared with those in leaves and roots.  [[FIGURE]] AtDTX1 complemented norfloxacin-sensitive mutant of E. coli and showed sequence similarity to MATE efflux transporters from bacteria, suggesting that AtDTX1 may function as a norfloxacin transport protein. To further determine the functional properties of AtDTX1, we measured norfloxacin accumulation in the KAM3 mutant cells and cells expressing AtDTX1. If AtDTX1 serves as an efflux carrier, it is expected that KAM3 cells expressing AtDTX1 would accumulate less norfloxacin. As shown in Fig.4 A, a high level of norfloxacin accumulation was observed with the mutant cells harboring the empty vector pTrc99A (KAM3-pTrc99A). In contrast, KAM3 transformed by a plasmid expressing AtDTX1 showed much lower levels of norfloxacin accumulation. This result suggests that AtDTX1 is capable of reducing the net accumulation of the drug by inhibiting norfloxacin influx or increasing efflux. Because efflux through secondary transporters often depends on the transmembrane electrochemical gradient of proton or ions (CITATION), we measured norfloxacin accumulation in the presence of CCCP, a de-coupler of the membrane proton gradient. After addition of CCCP to the assay solution, accumulation level of norfloxacin increased dramatically in AtDTX1-expressing cells, implying that AtDTX1 function is inhibited by CCCP. This result is consistent with the possibility that AtDTX1 functions as a norfloxacin efflux transporter that requires a proton motive force.  [[FIGURE]] Function of AtDTX1 as a multidrug transporter was examined further by assaying accumulation of ethidium bromide, another putative substrate for MATE transporters. Fig. 4 B indicates that AtDTX1-transformed KAM3 cells accumulated much less ethidium bromide as compared with cells transformed by empty vector. After CCCP was added to the assay mixture, the fluorescence of AtDTX1 transformants was rapidly increased to the similar level in KAM3-pTrc99A cells, suggesting that ethidium bromide, like norfloxacin, was likely to be extruded from KAM3 cells by AtDTX1 protein.  To further support that AtDTX1 mediates the efflux of the drugs, we performed ethidium bromide efflux assay according to a previously described procedure (CITATION, CITATION). Cells were first loaded with ethidium bromide under de-energized conditions in the presence of CCCP. After removing external ethidium bromide and CCCP from the cells, potassium lactate, an energy donor, was added to the efflux buffer to initiate drug efflux process. KAM3 transformed by pTrc99A vector did not show significant efflux of ethidium bromide whereas KAM3-AtDTX1 cells displayed rapid efflux in the same buffer (Fig.5).  [[FIGURE]] It was recently reported that bacterial NorM protein functions as a Na+/drug antiporter (CITATION). We tested whether AtDTX1 also depends on external Na+ for drug transport. Our results showed that external sodium does not affect AtDTX1 function (data not shown). In both bacteria and higher plants, H+ is a common currency for energizing secondary transport processes (CITATION). The fact that CCCP inhibited efflux process revealed a requirement for proton-motive force in AtDTX1-mediated transport. Proton-dependent transport is often regulated by external pH values. We assayed ethidium bromide efflux at various extracellular pH values (Fig. 6). From pH 4.0 to 8.0, activity of AtDTX1 increased significantly. When the external pH increased to 9.0, the efflux activity sharply decreased. The pH regulation observed with AtDTX1 is very similar to regulation of EmrE, a multidrug efflux carrier that mediates proton/drug antiport in bacteria (CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] If an inward proton gradient is the only parameter that is altered by extracellular pH values, increasing extracellular pH values would decrease such a gradient thereby inhibiting drug efflux. Our results on AtDTX1 and from EmrE studies are exactly opposite to this prediction. Clearly, a more complicated mechanism is involved in the pH regulation of AtDTX1- or EmrE-mediated efflux. A model interpreting this pH effect has been proposed with EmrE (CITATION). In particular, studies on EmrE suggest that proton and drug substrates share a common binding site in the EmrE protein. Extracellular pH not only changes the proton gradient but also regulates the charge state of the drug, the affinity of the drug and proton to the common binding site of EmrE, and membrane potential. The combination of these effects determines a net result on the regulation of EmrE-mediated drug efflux by extracellular pH (CITATION). More studies are required to determine if AtDTX1 regulation by pH follows a similar model.  The reversal of pH effect at pH 9 has been reported earlier by Hsiehet al. (CITATION) with a different multidrug transporter that depends on proton gradient. At alkaline pH, an electrogenic Na+/H+-antiporter in bacteria leads to the acidification of the cytoplasm to maintain the pH homeostasis (CITATION). Hence, at pH 9.0, the pH gradient is inverted. The inverted pH gradient will act to increase the accumulation of weak base and strongly inhibit efflux activity (CITATION).  Berberine and palmatine are common alkaloids produced in plants. Both exhibit antibiotic properties and serve as substrates for the multidrug resistance pump (CITATION). Recent studies also show that plant alkaloids such as berberine are common substrates for MATE family efflux carriers such as NorM and YdhE (CITATION). The fact that AtDTX1 shares sequence similarity with NorM protein suggests that AtDTX1 may transport plant alkaloids as well. If AtDTX1 mediates efflux of plant alkaloids, these compounds may competitively inhibit the efflux of ethidium bromide. We tested this possibility by using berberine and palmatine. As shown in Fig. 7 A, several concentrations, including 1, 5, 10, 50, 100, 250 μm, of berberine were added to the efflux assay mixture. When berberine concentration increased to 100 μm, it significantly inhibited the efflux of ethidium bromide through AtDTX1. Palmatine also inhibited efflux, although it was less effective as compared with berberine (Fig. 7 B).  [[FIGURE]] To determine whether AtDTX1 utilizes plant alkaloids as substrates, we examined alkaloid efflux directly using a similar procedure for ethidium bromide efflux assay. Berberine is a planar cationic molecule that resembles ethidium bromide and binds to DNA (CITATION). Similar to ethidium bromide, DNA-bound berberine has enhanced fluorescence. This property of berberine was used to examine berberine efflux as was done with ethidium bromide efflux. The fluorescence was measured with excitation at 355 nm and emission at 517 nm as described earlier (CITATION). Cells were first loaded with berberine by adding CCCP in loading mixture. Washed cells were resuspended, and efflux was initiated by adding cells into fluorescence assay buffer. As shown in Fig.7 C, KAM3 transformed by AtDTX1 showed significantly more efflux as compared with KAM3 cells transformed by pTrc99A vector under the same conditions (Fig. 7 C). These results indicate that AtDTX1 mediates efflux of plant alkaloids.  Heavy metals are toxic to plant growth, and relatively little is understood on the mechanism of heavy metal detoxification in plants (CITATION). In bacteria, several studies suggest that some multidrug resistance proteins are involved in heavy metal resistance (CITATION). For example, disruption of mdrL, a multidrug efflux carrier in Listeria monocytogenes, was associated with reduction in heavy metal resistance (CITATION). To test whether AtDTX1 is involved in heavy metal detoxification, we cultured KAM3-pTrc99A and KAM3-AtDTX1 strains on the media supplemented with different heavy metals, including Al3+, Co2+, Mn2+, Cu2+, Cd2+, and Zn2+, respectively. The two strains grew differently on the medium containing Cd2+ (Fig.8 A) but not on media containing other heavy metals (data not shown). The mutant strain, KAM3-pTrc99A, did not grow on the medium containing 10 μmor higher concentrations of Cd2+. In contrast, KAM3 transformed with AtDTX1 tolerated Cd2+ up to 100 μm (Fig. 8 A). More analysis using liquid cultures further confirmed that the KAM3-AtDTX1 strain is significantly more tolerant to Cd2+ as compared with KAM3-pTrc99A strain (Fig. 8 B). During a 24-h culture period, KAM3-pTrc99A and KAM3-AtDTX1 cells grew similarly in the absence of Cd2+. However, 10 and 100 μm Cd2+ almost completely inhibited the growth of the KAM3-pTrc99A strain. In contrast, 10 μm Cd2+ had little effect on the overall growth of KAM3-AtDTX1 cells. At 100 μm, Cd2+inhibited early growth of KAM3-AtDTX1 cells, but these cells recovered dramatically and nearly reach the density of the control at the end of a 24-h culture. When Cd2+ concentration reached 1 mm, growth of AtDTX1 cells was inhibited. This result clearly showed that AtDTX1 confers Cd2+ tolerance to KAM3 cells.  [[FIGURE]] The functional analyses of AtDTX1 in a bacterial model demonstrated that AtDTX1 serves as an efflux carrier that extrude a number of toxic compounds and possibly heavy metals from cells. To perform the similar cellular function in plants, AtDTX1 protein must be localized to the plasma membrane. To determine the subcellular localization of AtDTX1, we fused AtDTX1 cDNA to a gene coding for green fluorescence protein (GFP) in a binary vector and introduced the construct into Arabidopsis plants. We determined the subcellular localization of AtDXT1-GFP fusion protein in the transgenic plants by laser confocal microscopy. In all cell types examined, fluorescence of AtDTX1-GFP was associated with the plasma membrane. Fig. 9 presents confocal images of root tip and elongated root cells from the controls and AtDTX1-GFP-expressing plants. For the background controls, wild type non-transformed plants and plants transformed with GFP alone were analyzed. Background signals associated with the root tip region are shown in Fig. 9 A. Localization of GFP only is shown in Fig.9 (B and G), indicating a ubiquitous localization pattern in plant cells. As a positive control for plasma membrane localization, plants transformed with a plasma membrane marker fused to GFP were examined (Ref. CITATION, and available on the web at deepgreen.stanford.edu). Fig. 9 C shows a defined periphery localization pattern of this fusion protein. As in the positive control, the fluorescence detected in cells of root tip region and elongation zone shows that AtDTX1-GFP fusion is also localized to the cell periphery region (cell wall or plasma membrane) not the nucleus or other intracellular compartments (Fig. 9, D andH). Because elongated root cells contain a large central vacuole, the plasma membranes and tonoplasts are closely located and may not be distinguishable by our procedure. However, cells in the root tip region do not contain large central vacuoles and the fluorescence pattern indicates plasma membrane or cell wall association. To determine if AtDTX1 is localized to the cell wall or the plasma membrane, a plasmolysis experiment was performed. When roots from transgenic seedlings were placed in 0.5 m mannitol, fluorescence in both the positive control and the AtDTX1-GFP-transformed plants was internalized with the cytoplasm (Fig.9, E and F). This localization pattern indicates that AtDTX1 is localized in the plasma membrane but not in the cell wall, consistent with the presence of 12 putative transmembrane domains in the protein sequence.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~!  E. coli mutant strain KAM3 harbors a deletion in the chromosomal AcrAB genes of TG1 strain and was sensitive to many drugs that are known as substrates of the AcrAB system (CITATION). This mutant strain does not grow on medium containing 0.05 μg/ml norfloxacin (CITATION). We expressed an ArabidopsiscDNA library CD4–7 (Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center, Columbia, OH) in the KAM3 mutant and selected transformants on the norfloxacin-containing medium. The cDNA clones that supported growth of KAM3 mutant on the toxic medium were sequenced and subcloned into pTrc99A vector (Amersham Biosciences, Inc.). We focused on one cDNA, AtDTX1, for further analyses. The cDNA sequence of AtDTX1 encodes the same protein as annotated under the accession numberAAD28687 in the Arabidopsis genomic sequence data base (available at www.mips.biochem.mpg.de/proj/thal/).  For confirmation of complementation, AtDTX1 cDNA was constructed into pTrc99A vector and transformed into KAM3 cells by electroporation. Transformants were selected on the LB medium supplemented with 100 μg/ml ampicillin. Individual transformants were grown in LB liquid medium containing the same concentration of antibiotics and 1 mm isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside for induction of AtDTX1 expression. The cultures were adjusted to 1.0A 600, diluted to 10-fold gradient series, and spotted (2 μl) onto LB solid medium supplemented with 0.05 μg/ml norfloxacin or different concentrations of heavy metal or antibiotics. The growth of different strains was scored after incubation at 37 °C for 24 h. The KAM3 mutant transformed with pTrc99A was used as a control.  Assay of norfloxacin and ethidium bromide accumulation was performed as described previously (CITATION, CITATION). Briefly, E. coli KAM3 containing pTrc99A empty vector or pTrc99A-AtDTX1 were grown in the LB broth supplemented with 40 mm potassium lactate to the late, exponential phase of growth under aerobic condition at 37 °C, harvested, and washed with 0.2 m MOPS-Tris buffer (pH7.0) containing 10 mmMgSO4, and suspended in the same buffer to 50 mg (wet weight)/ml. The assay mixture contained cells (10 mg (wet weight)/ml) in the same buffer and 10 mm potassium lactate. After incubation at 37 °C for 5 min, norfloxacin (100 μm, final concentration) was added to initiate the assay. Samples (1 ml each) were taken at intervals, centrifuged at 10,000 rpm for 30 s at 4 °C, and washed once with the same buffer. After 15 min of initiating, carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone (CCCP) was added to the assay mixture at 100 μm to disrupt the proton gradient across the membrane. The pellet was suspended in 1 ml of 100 mm glycine-HCl (pH 3.0). The suspension was shaken vigorously for 1 h at room temperature to release their fluorescent contents and then centrifuged at 15,000 rpm for 10 min at room temperature. The fluorescence of supernatants was measured (excitation at 277 nm and emission at 448 nm) with a Hitachi F-4500 fluorescence spectrophotometer. The amount of fluorescence was normalized against total protein concentration that was measured by using the Bio-Rad Protein Assay kit (CITATION).  Cells used in ethidium bromide accumulation assay were prepared similarly as described above. After cells were washed and suspended in 0.1 m Tris-HCl (pH 7.0) to A 600 of 2.0 and placed in the fluorometer cuvette with 1:10 dilution in the same buffer. Ethidium bromide was added at 20 μg/ml to the cell suspension to initiate the assay. Samples (1 ml each) were taken at different time points. CCCP was added at 100 μm at the 15-min time point. The fluorescence of the sample mixture was measured with excitation and emission wavelength of 500 and 580, respectively (CITATION). Because ethidium bromide fluorescence results from binding to intracellular components, especially to nucleic acids, the increase in fluorescence intensity reflected the accumulation of the dye in the cell (CITATION). The amount of maximum fluorescence was normalized to 100%.  For determining ethidium bromide efflux, cells from an overnight culture (5 ml,A 600 = 2) were pelleted and washed twice with 100 mm MOPS-Tris (pH 7.0), 2 mmMgSO4 buffer. To load cells with ethidium bromide, the cells were incubated in the same buffer supplemented with 10 μg/ml ethidium bromide and 20 μm CCCP by incubation at 37 °C for 30 min as previously described (CITATION, CITATION). Cells were pelleted, washed twice, and resuspended at the same ice-cold buffer (A 600 = 4.0). Suspension was placed into a fluorometer cuvette and diluted 100-fold with solutions indicated in each figure legend. Because only nucleic acid-bound ethidium bromide gives significant fluorescence, efflux of ethidium bromide from the cells was determined as a decrease in fluorescence. Measurement of berberine efflux was performed by a similar procedure with excitation at 355 nm and emission at 517 nm. The concentration of berberine for cell loading was 30 μg/ml (CITATION).  Minimal inhibitory concentrations (MICs) of heavy metals and drugs were determined by culturing cells in the LB broth containing a particular heavy metal or drug at various concentrations (CITATION, CITATION). Aliquots of the culture were taken at different time points to measure the growth rates that were used to make a growth curve as indicated in figure legends.  Total RNA was isolated fromArabidopsis seedlings by using the TRIzol reagent (Invitrogen, Grand Island, NY). 10 μg of total RNA was separated on denaturing 1.2% formaldehyde-agarose gel, transferred to a Hybond-N nylon membrane (Amersham Biosciences, Inc.), and hybridized with probes that were made from full-length AtDTX1 cDNA by random priming (CITATION).  The subcellular localization of AtDTX1 protein was addressed by GFP fusion and confocal microscopy. The coding region of AtDXT1 was fused to GFP coding region in binary vector pMD1 that contains the cytomegalovirus35S promoter followed by a short polylinker, GFP-coding region, and the nopaline opine synthase terminator region (CITATION). The AtDTX1 cDNA without a stop codon was inserted into the polylinker region to form an in-frame fusion with the GFP-coding region. This construct was used to transform wild typeArabidopsis plants (Columbia ecotype) by floral dip method (CITATION). Transformants were selected on 0.5× Murashige-Skoog medium containing 1% (w/v) sucrose, 0.8% (w/v) agar, and 60 μg/ml kanamycin and were propagated in the soil. T2 seedlings were used to localize GFP fluorescence by a confocal microscope (Zeiss 510 UV-visible). The images were processed by Adobe PhotoShop. 
