!~ABS~! The AtSERK1 protein is a plasma membrane-located LRR receptor-like serine threonine kinase that is transiently expressed during plant embryogenesis. Our results show that AtSERK1 interacts with the kinase-associated protein phosphatase (KAPP) in vitro. The kinase interaction (KI) domain of KAPP does not interact with a catalytically inactive kinase mutant. Using mutantAtSERK1 proteins in which Thr 462, Thr 463, and Thr 468 in the A-loop of the AtSERK1 kinase domain were replaced by alanines, we show that phosphorylation status of the receptor is involved in interaction with KAPP. KAPP and AtSERK1 cDNAs were fused to two different variants of green fluorescent protein (GFP), the yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) or the cyan fluorescent protein (CFP). Both KAPP and AtSERK1 proteins are found at the plasma membrane. Our results show that AtSERK1-CFP becomes sequestered into intracellular vesicles when transiently coexpressed with KAPP-YFP proteins. AtSERK1T463A-CFP andAtSERK13T→A-CFP proteins were partially sequestered intracellularly in the absence of KAPP-YFP protein, suggesting an active role for KAPP dephosphorylation of threonine residues in theAtSERK1 A-loop in receptor internalization. The interaction between the KAPP-CFP/YFP and AtSERK1-CFP/YFP fusion proteins was investigated with fluorescence spectral imaging microscopy (FSPIM). Our results show that AtSERK1-CFP and KAPP-YFP proteins are colocalized at the plasma membrane but only show fluorescence energy transfer (FRET) indicative of physical interaction in intracellular vesicles. These results suggest that KAPP is an integral part of theAtSERK1 endocytosis mechanism. 
!~RES~! The AtSERK1-GST, KAPP-GST, AtSERK1-YFP/CFP, and KAPP-YFP/CFP constructs used are shown in Figure1. To determine whether the KAPP KI domain biochemically and physically interacted with AtSERK1 in vitro, both the kinase domain of AtSERK1 and the KI domain of KAPP were expressed as GST fusion proteins in E. coli. The affinity-purified AtSERK1kin and KAPPKIfusion proteins were then used in phosphorylation assays (Fig.2A). Increasing phosphosphorylation ofAtSERK1kin was seen on increasing its concentration (Fig. 2A, lanes 1–3). KAPPKI was phosphorylated in the presence of AtSERK1kin protein (Fig. 2A, lanes 4–8). Since both proteins are substrates for phosphorylation, the level of phosphorylation was determined as a function of protein concentration (Fig. 2A). Above an approximately equimolar ratio, increasing amounts of KAPPKI led to an increase in the phosphorylation of KAPPKI and a decreased phosphorylation ofAtSERK1kin (Fig. 2A, cf. lanes 6 and 3). The KAPPKI phosphorylation was less affected when theAtSERK1kin protein concentration was decreased in the incubation mix (Fig. 2A, cf. lanes 7 and 8 with lanes 4 and 5). KAPPKI protein was unable to phosphorylate alone (Fig. 2A, lane 9). This demonstrates that KAPP is a substrate forAtSERK1kin and that the two proteins biochemically interact in vitro.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  AtSERK1 A-loop that is formed from subdomains VII and VIII has three threonine residues that are potential phosphorylation sites (CITATION). To determine whether the interaction betweenAtSERK1kin and KAPPKI is phosphorylation-dependent, we tested theAtSERK1kin, the catalytically inactiveAtSERK1K330E, and theAtSERK13T→E mutant proteins in which three threonine residues in the AtSERK1 A-loop have been mutated, for their association with KAPPKI by in vitro binding assays. The AtSERK1kin proteins were incubated in the presence of unlabeled ATP and transferred after electrophoresis onto a membrane and incubated with [γ-32P]ATP-labeled KAPPKI probe. AtSERK1kin (Fig. 2B, lane 1) interacted with KAPPKI probe, and no interaction was observed between the KAPPKI and theAtSERK1K330E and AtSERK13T→Emutant (Fig. 2B, lanes 2 and 3). To further test whether the interaction between AtSERK1kin and KAPPKIwas dependent on the phosphorylation state of theAtSERK1kin protein, theAtSERK1kin was treated with alkaline phosphatase (AP) alone or with AP in addition to the AP inhibitor (API) and incubated in the presence of unlabeled ATP. KAPPKI showed a reduced interaction with the dephosphorylated (AP-treated)AtSERK1kin (Fig. 2B, lane 5) compared to the phosphorylated AtSERK1kin (Fig. 2B, lane 1) or both the AP- and API-treated AtSERK1kin (Fig. 2B, lane 6). The phosphoaminoacid analysis performed on the KAPPKIphosphorylated by AtSERK1kin protein showed that it was phosphorylated on serines (Fig. 2C).  These results show that KAPPKI interacts withAtSERK1kin in a phosphorylation-dependent manner. Furthermore, the threonine residues in the AtSERK1 A-loop seem to play an essential role in the transphosphorylation of the KAPPKI protein.  In a previous work, we showed that the effect on the phosphorylation activity was similar when AtSERK1 A-loop threonines were mutated to either glutamic acid residues or to alanine residues (CITATION). To investigate the role of individual threonine residues in the AtSERK1 A-loop inAtSERK1kin-KAPPKI transphosphorylation, all four threonine residues in the AtSERK1 A-loop, that is, Thr 459, Thr 462, Thr 463, and Thr 468 were mutagenized individually to alanine residues. The transphosphorylation assays with affinity-purified KAPPKI and AtSERK1kinthreonine mutant proteins showed that there was a reduced transphosphorylation of KAPPKI when incubated withAtSERK1T459A (Fig. 3A, lane 2) compared to KAPPKI phosphorylation by AtSERK1kin (Fig.3A, lane 1). KAPPKI was not phosphorylated when incubated with AtSERK1T462A(Fig. 3A, lane 3) or AtSERK1T463A (Fig. 3A, lane 4) or AtSERK1T468A (Fig. 3A, lane 5). The transphosphorylation assays with AtSERK13T→E (Fig.3A, lane 6) and AtSERK1K330E (Fig. 3A, lane 7) show results comparable to those obtained withAtSERK1T468A.  [[FIGURE]] These results show that Thr 468 in the AtSERK1 A-loop has a major role in both the autophosphorylation activity of AtSERK1 and transphosphorylation activity on the KI domain of KAPP. This confirms previous work using casein and myelin basic protein (MBP) as artificial transphosphorylation targets for AtSERK1 (CITATION). In addition, Thr 463 also influences the transphosphorylation of the KI domain of KAPP. This is a different observation than that obtained with AtSERK1 transphosphorylation on casein and MBP, where only Thr 462 and Thr 468 have any influence on the transphosphorylation (CITATION). This finding implies a role of other threonine residues in theAtSERK1 A-loop in substrate phosphorylation.  To determine the protein phosphatase catalytic activity of KAPP, the full-length KAPP cDNA missing only the N-terminal signal anchor was fused to GST and expressed in E. coli. The affinity-purified KAPP protein (KAPP−SA) was incubated with matrix-bound [γ-32P]ATP phosphorylated AtSERK1kin, and aliquots were taken out at different time intervals (Fig. 3B, lanes 2–6). The phosphorylated ASERK1kin was dephosphorylated by KAPP−SA with increased incubation time (Fig. 3B, lanes 2–5). Phosphorylated AtSERK1kin protein was almost completely dephosphorylated by KAPP−SA after 4 h (Fig. 3B, lane 6). We were also interested in knowing whether theAtSERK1kin protein would phosphorylate in the presence of KAPP−SA protein. This led us to perform experiments in which we incubated affinity-purifiedAtSERK1kin alone (Fig. 3C, lane 1) with KAPPKI (Fig. 3C, lane 2) or KAPP−SA (Fig. 3C, lane 3) or with both KAPPKI and KAPP−SA proteins in the presence of [γ-32P]ATP. In the presence of the KAPP−SA protein, there was a reduced phosphorylation ofAtSERK1kin (Fig. 3C, lane 3) or bothAtSERK1kin and KAPPKI (Fig. 3C, lane 4). These results demonstrate that KAPP protein not only dephosphorylatesAtSERK1 protein but also actively prevents autophosphorylation of the receptor, suggesting that the KAPP protein can maintain the dephosphorylated state of AtSERK1.  Because AtSERK1 and KAPP interact in vitro, it was of interest to determine whether the two proteins are colocalized and can interact in plant cells. For this we transiently expressed in plant protoplasts two different variants of the GFP, the cyan fluorescent protein (CFP), and the yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) that are fused to the C-terminal end of AtSERK1 and KAPP protein (Fig. 1, I–L, P–U).The KAPP type 1 signal anchor (SAI) acts as an uncleaved signal peptide, resulting in cytoplasmic orientation of the membrane-anchored protein (CITATION). To study the localization of the KAPP protein in plant protoplasts, we performed transient transfections with KAPPKI-YFP, KAPP−SA-YFP, and KAPP-YFP constructs. After transfection and incubation for 12 h, total protein was isolated, fractionated by denaturing SDS-PAGE, and immunoblotted using an antiserum against GFP. The results show that all KAPP-YFP/CFP fusion proteins of the correct size are expressed in plant protoplasts (Fig.4A). KAPPKI-YFP protein showed localization in the cytoplasm (Fig. 4B), whereas KAPP-YFP protein was expressed in the plasma membrane and in the cytosol (Fig. 4C). When the protoplasts were transfected with KAPP−SA-YFP, a construct in which the KAPP protein lacks the SAI signal peptide, the KAPP−SA-YFP protein was observed in the cytoplasm compartments (Fig. 4D). This shows the importance of the KAPP-SAI peptide in membrane anchoring of the KAPP protein.  [[FIGURE]] In our previous studies with AtSERK1-YFP fusion protein in plant protoplasts, we showed that most of the AtSERK1-YFP protein is found in the plasma membrane and in a very small amount in endomembranes (CITATION). In Figure5A, a protoplast expressing theAtSERK1-CFP is shown. CFP is represented by the cyan color and confirms the previously noted location of the AtSERK1 protein. The same protoplast was cotransfected with an ER marker (ER-YFP) that contains a C-terminal HDEL-ER retention signal fused to YFP (Fig. 5B). For comparison, the chlorophyll autofluorescence is shown in red (Fig.5C). From the combined image (Fig. 5D), it is clear that ER-YFP andAtSERK1-CFP have different localizations in the protoplast.AtSERK1-CFP is seen mainly in the plasma membrane, whereas the ER at this stage (12 h after transfection) is almost depleted of theAtSERK1 protein. The ER-YFP localization is visible as a complex pattern (Fig. 5B) that covers most of the cytoplasm-containing area and extends right up to the plasma membrane. It is notably excluded from the chloroplasts and the vacuole. To examine the subcellular localization of KAPP and AtSERK1 proteins together, we transiently expressed both AtSERK1-CFP and KAPP-YFP fusion proteins. When coexpressed, striking differences were noted in the localization pattern of both proteins. Substantial amounts of AtSERK1 and KAPP proteins are now seen internally (Fig.5E–H). At the periphery of the protoplast, AtSERK1 is found in the areas that coincide with the presence of ER membranes. Substantial CFP fluorescence is also seen in a rather diffuse dotted pattern almost in the center of the cell (Fig. 5E). The KAPP protein is found mainly in the center of the cell and less in the peripheral areas (Fig. 5F). The superimposed image (Fig. 5H) shows that KAPP andAtSERK1 fluorescence only substantially overlap in the central area and in the membrane. The comparison of the localization ofAtSERK1 and KAPP proteins (Fig. 5E,F) with the ER marker (Fig.5B) suggests that the diffuse punctate pattern observed in the colocalization experiment might represent intracellular vesicles such as endosomes, containing internalized AtSERK1-KAPP proteins.  [[FIGURE]] We next investigated whether AtSERK1 threonine residues 462, 463, and 468, involved in the interaction with KAPP (Fig. 2B) and in the transphosphorylation reaction in vitro (Fig. 3A) were involved in the observed internalization of the AtSERK1 protein. A construct containing the AtSERK1T463A-CFP fusion was localized in the plasma membrane, with a rather higher signal seen in a diffuse area in the cytoplasm compared to the AtSERK1-CFP protein (Fig. 5I,J). When AtSERK1T463A-CFP was transiently coexpressed with KAPP-YFP, substantial amounts of both proteins were found to be sequestered intracellularly (Fig. 5M,N). TheAtSERK13T→A-CFP protein alone localizes at the plasma membrane but is also seen internally (Fig. 5K,L), similar to what was seen for the AtSERK1T463A-CFP protein. SomeAtSERK13T→A-CFP protein was also seen to be present in the ER, suggesting an additional effect of removing the three threonines on the correct secretion of the receptor via the Golgi. Cotransfection of AtSERK13T→A-CFP and KAPP-YFP did not change the pattern seen for theAtSERK13T→A-CFP mutant alone (Fig. 5Q–T). However, the amount of internalizedAtSERK13T→A-CFP protein was increased compared with the AtSERK1T463A-CFP alone.  We conclude that KAPP and AtSERK1 colocalize to a certain extent. Preventing a biochemical or physical interaction by removing the potential KAPP substrate threonines in the A-loop ofAtSERK1 resulted in a marked intracellular localization of the receptor. Coexpressing the mutant fusion proteins along with KAPP protein enhanced the fraction of internalized receptors. This suggests that KAPP-mediated dephosphorylation of the receptor is an essential step in the internalization of the entire receptor complex.  To verify that the punctate localization pattern of the twoAtSERK1 mutants and of AtSERK1 when coexpressed with KAPP protein represents true endosomal localization, we simultaneously labeled the cells with FM4-64. FM4-64 is a lipophilic dye that is taken up by endocytosis when added to yeast (CITATION) or plant cells (CITATION). Protoplasts transiently expressingAtSERK1T463A-YFP protein were incubated with FM4-64 and viewed by confocal microscopy after 15 min. At this timepoint, FM4-64 stained only the plasma membrane (Fig.6A–D), where it overlaps withAtSERK1T463A-YFP localization. When incubated for 3 h, FM4-64 was internalized and localized in small punctate structures, similar to the early endosomal structures reported by CITATION. As shown in Figure 6E–H, nearly all structures stained by FM4-64 also contained AtSERK1T463A-YFP. This suggests that the AtSERK1T463A-YFP protein is internalized via an endocytotic pathway.  [[FIGURE]] To directly study the physical interaction between AtSERK1 and KAPP proteins in living plant cells, the CFP and YFP fusion proteins were used as a donor-acceptor pair in FRET studies. All constructs used in this study are described in Figure 1. Our experiments were based on fluorescence spectral imaging microscopy (FSPIM) as a detection system. Spectral images were taken from small regions of the protoplasts coexpressing YFP and CFP fusion proteins, and a fluorescence emission spectrum corrected for autofluorescence was then generated. In the case of FRET, the CFP fluorescence will be quenched and the YFP fluorescence will be increased (sensitized).  For FRET to be detected reliably using FSPIM, certain prerequisites must be satisfied. These are that donor and acceptor fluorophores must be present in a ratio close to 1:1; the absorption of the CFP fluorescence by chlorophyll should be minimized, fusion proteins should be properly targeted, and finally the fluorophores must be oriented so as to allow close proximity when the target proteins fused to the CFP/YFP interact. We performed FRET experiments with theAtSERK1, AtSERK1kin, KAPP, and KAPPKI fusion proteins fused to either the donor (CFP) or the acceptor (YFP) molecules. In all experiments where FRET was observed, similar changes in the fluorescence intensity ratios were observed regardless of the donor CFP being fused to AtSERK1 or to the KAPP (Figs.7,8). This indicates that the observed increased donor/acceptor ratio is due the energy transfer between the CFP and the YFP molecules fused toAtSERK1 or KAPP proteins and not due to an unbalanced expression ratio. To avoid interference by chlorophyll absorption, FRET measurements were performed exclusively over the regions lacking chloroplasts. Because the fluorophore orientation factor cannot be corrected for, any results showing absence of FRET may not completely guarantee that no interaction occurred between those proteins.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Protoplasts were first cotransfected with eitherAtSERK1kin-CFP and KAPPKI-YFP orAtSERK1kin-YFP and KAPPKI-CFP constructs. The equal expression of the CFP and YFP fusion proteins in protoplasts was demonstrated by immunoblotting of the solubilized proteins using anti-GFP antisera (Fig. 7A). The spectral images were recorded from the different regions of the protoplasts coexpressingAtSERK1kin-CFP and KAPPKI-YFP fusion proteins. The YFP/CFP fluorescence intensity ratio deduced from these spectra is over 1.5 in every 3 of 5 measurements (Fig. 7B). The YFP/CFP intensity ratio obtained from AtSERK1kin-YFP and KAPPKI-CFP cotransfected protoplasts was similar to the YFP/CFP intensity ratio shown by AtSERK1kin-CFP and KAPPKI-YFP coexpressing protoplasts (Fig. 7C). When the spectra were recorded from 30 protoplasts, each coexpressingAtSERK1kin-CFP and KAPPKI-YFP orAtSERK1kin-YFP and KAPPKI-CFP, the increased YFP/CFP fluorescence intensity ratio of more than 1.5 was seen in about 80% of the measurements (data not shown). These results show that when the AtSERK1kin and KAPPKIproteins are in the cytoplasm, they interact physically, supporting the in vitro experiments performed on bacterially expressed proteins (see Fig. 2A)  To determine whether physical interaction occurs between KAPP-CFP/YFP and the AtSERK1-CFP/YFP proteins, we cotransfected protoplasts with either KAPP-CFP and AtSERK1-YFP or KAPP-YFP andAtSERK1-CFP constructs. The immunoblot of the coexpressed proteins using anti-GFP antisera is shown in Figure 8A. The near identical size of the AtSERK1-CFP/YFP and KAPP-CFP/YFP fusion proteins prevents a clear distinction between two proteins on the blot. However, no gross imbalance in expression ratios is evident. We separated the FRET experiments performed on the proteins that were coexpressed at the plasma membrane and the proteins that were present intracellularly. An example of an area that was selected for recording is shown in Figure 8B, where AtSERK1 and KAPP are colocalized in the plasma membrane (shown in Fig. 8B by an arrowhead) and in the area where vesicular structures are seen (shown in Fig. 7B by an arrow). These vesicular structures are present in the cytoplasm and are distinct from the ER (as shown in Fig. 5B) and may represent endosomes as suggested by FM4-64 staining. In Figure 8C, spectra are shown that were obtained from protoplasts coexpressing KAPP-YFP andAtSERK1-CFP at the plasma membrane. The YFP/CFP fluorescence intensity ratio deduced from these spectra was close to 1.0 in all of the measurements, suggesting that no interaction occurs betweenAtSERK1 and KAPP at the plasma membrane. The same fluorescence intensity ratios of 1.0 were obtained when protoplasts were cotransfected with KAPP-CFP and AtSERK1-YFP (Fig. 8D). In about 95% of the protoplasts, the YFP/CFP fluorescence intensity ratio was close to 1.0 when the spectra were recorded at the plasma membrane from 30 protoplasts coexpressing either AtSERK1-CFP and KAPP-YFP proteins or AtSERK1-YFP and KAPP-CFP proteins (data not shown). However, when the spectra were recorded on theAtSERK1-CFP and KAPP-YFP proteins (Fig. 8E) andAtSERK1-YFP and KAPP-CFP proteins (Fig. 8F) present intracellularly, there was a clear shift in the YFP/CFP fluorescence intensity ratio to above 1.3 and extending to 2.0 in 2 of 5 measurements. About 80% of the protoplasts showed an increased YFP/CFP fluorescence intensity ratio of about 1.4 when the spectra were recorded from 30 protoplasts coexpressing either AtSERK1-CFP and KAPP-YFP proteins or AtSERK1-YFP and KAPP-CFP proteins intracellularly (data not shown).  Taken together, these results led us to conclude that the kinase domain of AtSERK1 and kinase interaction domain of KAPP protein can physically interact in the cytoplasm but also do so when they are attached to their respective complete proteins as present in the internalized vesicles. Notably, no interaction appears to take place when both KAPP and AtSERK1 are present in the plasma membrane. 
!~MM~! The cDNA sequence encoding the AtSERK1 kinase catalytic domain, corresponding to nucleotides 1000–2068 (GenBank accession no.A67827) was amplified by PCR using the 2.1-kb cDNA cloned in vector pBluescriptII SK− as a template. All of the primers used for PCR have tailored restriction sites added. Primer SmaI1000 (5′-TCCCCCGGGTATTTTCTTCGATGTC CCTG-3′) and primer NotI2068 (5′-ATAAGAATGCGGCCGC CCTTGGACCAGATA-3′) amplified a PCR fragment of 1.1 kb that was cloned into a SmaI- and NotI-cleaved pGEX-4T1 (Pharmacia) resulting in AtSERK1kinconstruct. Site-directed mutagenesis of the highly conserved Lys 330 essential for phosphotransfer in protein kinases to glutamic acid was performed according to the manufacturer's instructions (Stratagene), resulting in the AtSERK1K330E construct. Site-directed mutagenesis of three threonine residues in theAtSERK1 A-loop, that is, Thr 462, Thr 463, and Thr 468 to glutamic acid residues resulted in an AtSERK13T→Econstruct. Single amino acid mutations of Thr 459, Thr 462, Thr 463, and Thr 468 to alanine residues resulted inAtSERK1T459A, AtSERK1T462A,AtSERK1T463A, and AtSERK1T468Aconstructs. The cDNA sequence encoding the Arabidopsis thaliana KI domain of KAPP and the KAPP cDNA missing only the N-terminal signal anchor was amplified by PCR using the KAPP cDNA in pBluescriptII SK− provided kindly by John C. Walker (University of Missouri–Columbia). A forward primer (5′-GGAAGATCTGGGATTTGCAGAGAC CA-3′) and the reverse primer (5′-GGAAGATCTATTAGCC CCAGGAAGCGGCCA-3′) amplified a PCR fragment corresponding to the KI domain of KAPP that was cloned into theBamHI and XhoI sites of the pGEX-4T1 vector, resulting in the KAPPKI construct. To amplify the entire KAPP cDNA missing only the N-terminal signal anchor, a forward primer (5′-GGAA GATCTGGGATTTGCAGAGACCA-3′) and the reverse primer (5′-GGAAGATCTCAGGGAAGTATCGAAATCTAAG-3′) were used, and the 1.6-kb PCR fragment was cloned into the BamHI andXhoI sites of the pGEX-4T1 vector, resulting in the KAPP−SA construct. All plasmids were verified by restriction endonuclease digestion and DNA sequencing before being transformed into the E. coli Bl21 strain for protein expression. A 2-mL overnight culture was transferred to 200 mL of LB medium, and the cells were grown at 37°C to an OD 600 of 0.6 and then induced with 0.1 mM isopropyl-D-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) for 3–4 h at 30° C. The cells were collected by centrifugation, resuspended in 6 mL of phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) lysis buffer containing protease inhibitor cocktail (Mini, Boehringer Mannheim), sonicated, and cleared by centrifugation at 12,000g. The soluble GST-fusion proteins were purified from the supernatant by Glutathione Sepharose 4B (Pharmacia) chromatography according to the manufacturer's instructions.  Transphosphorylation assays were performed by incubating 500 ng (100 μg/mL) of either AtSERKkin orAtSERKkin mutant proteins with 500 ng of KAPPKI protein in 20 mM Tris (pH 7.5), 50 mM NaCl, 0.01% Triton X-100, 10 mM MgCl2, 1 mM dithiothreitol (DTT), 50 μM unlabeled ATP, and 10 μCi of [γ-32P]ATP in a final volume of 30 μL. After incubation for 30 min at 30°C, the reaction was quenched by adding Laemmli SDS-PAGE sample buffer, boiled at 95°C for 5 min, and separated by 10% SDS-PAGE. The gel was stained with Coomassie Brilliant Blue (CBB) to verify equal loading and then dried. For dephosphorylation assays, 5 μg of AtSERK1kinwas phosphorylated on Glutathione Sepharose 4B (matrix), and the unbound label was washed away. The matrix-bound phosphorylatedAtSERK1kin was treated with 5 μg of KAPP−SA and incubated at 30°C. The aliquots were taken at time intervals of 30, 60, 90, 120, and 240 min, and the reaction was quenched, proteins separated and stained, and gels were dried as described above. The radioactivity was quantified with a PhosphorImager using the ImageQuant program (Molecular Dynamics).  Immobilized KAPPKI was phosphorylated with 10 units of bovine heart muscle kinase (Sigma) in 20 mM Tris (pH 7.5), 50 mM NaCl, 10 mM MgCl2 with 10 μCi of [γ-32P]ATP and then eluted as described above. The resulting eluent was used to probe the nitrocellulose filter prepared as described below.AtSERK1kin, AtSERKkin mutants, and AtSERK1kin treated with 25 units of alkaline phosphatase (AP) with and without AP inhibitor (Sigma) were incubated in 20 mM Tris (pH 7.5), 50 mM NaCl, 10 mM MgCl2, and 50 μM unlabeled ATP in a final volume of 30 μL. After incubation for 2 h at 37°C, the reaction was quenched by adding Laemmli SDS-PAGE sample buffer, boiled at 95°C for 5 min, and separated by 10% SDS-PAGE. The proteins were transferred to a nitrocellulose filter, blocked in HBB buffer (25 mM HEPES at pH 7.5, 5 mM MgCl2, 1 mM KCl, and 5% nonfat dry milk) at 4°C for 4 h, and probed overnight with [γ-32P]ATP-labeled KAPPKI probe in BB buffer (25 mM Hepes at pH 7.5, 2.5 mM MgCl2, 7.5 mM KCl, 0.1 mM EDTA and 1% nonfat dry milk). After 3 washes in BB buffer, the radioactivity of the filter was quantified with a PhosphorImager using the ImageQuant program.  KAPPKI was phosphorylated by AtSERKkinin the presence of [γ-32P]ATP and separated by SDS-PAGE as described above. The CBB-stained phosphorylated bands of KAPPKI were excised from the gel, rehydrated in 50 mM NH4CO3, 0.1% SDS, and 0.25% β-mercaptoethanol (2-ME), ground with a small pestle, boiled for 5 min, and extracted by agitation at 37°C for 90 min. The proteins were precipitated by adding 20 μg of BSA and 20% (w/v) solid trichloroacetic acid (TCA) and incubated overnight at −20°C. The precipitate was collected by centrifugation, and the TCA was removed by lyophilization for 30 min. The sample was hydrolyzed in 50 μL 6M HCl for 1 h at 120°C. The HCl was evaporated, and the pellet was resuspended in the ascending solvent of acetic acid, ethanol, and water mixed with phosphoaminoacid standards and applied to a 10 × 10 cellulose TLC plate (Merck) as described by CITATION using an ascending solvent for 1 h. The first-dimension fractionation was followed by chromatography in the second-dimension in a phosphopeptide buffer containing isobutyl alcohol, glacial acetic acid, and water at 8:4:2. Phosphoaminoacid standards were visualized by spraying the plate with 0.25% ninhydrin in acetone and then heating it at 65°C for 30 min. The radiographic film was exposed to the TLC plate for 12 h, and the radioactivity was quantified with ImageQuant program (Molecular Dynamics).  The entire open reading frame (ORF) of the AtSERK1 cDNA was amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) from anAtSERK1 full-length cDNA and cloned downstream of the 35S promoter into the NcoI site of pMON999-CFP and pMON999-YFP using primers NcoI215f (5′-CATGCCATGGTGGAGTCGAGTTAT GTGG-3′) and NcoI2068r (5′-CATGCCATGGACCTTGGAC CAGATAACTC-3′). This resulted in the AtSERK1-CFP and AtSERK1-YFP constructs. Thr 462, Thr 463, and Thr 468 residues in the AtSERK1-CFP andAtSERK1-YFP constructs were mutated into alanines by using a Site Directed Mutagenesis Kit (Stratagene) as described previously (CITATION), resulting in theAtSERK13T→A-CFP andAtSERK13T→A-YFP constructs. The Thr 463 residue in the AtSERK1-CFP and AtSERK1-YFP constructs was also individually mutated into alanine, resulting in theAtSERK1T463A-CFP andAtSERK1T463A-YFP fusions.  The AtSERK1 intracellular kinase domain was similarly cloned into the NcoI site of pMON999-CFP and pMON999-YFP using primers nAtSERKC (5′-CCATCCGATGGGCCCACTA GATATTTTCTT-3′) and NcoI2068r. This resulted in the AtSERK1kin-CFP andAtSERK1kin-YFP constructs.  The entire ORF of KAPP cDNA was amplified by PCR using primers BglKAP39f (5′-GGAAGATCTATGGCGATGATAGG GATGAAC-3′) and BglTKAPr (5′-GGAAGATCTCAGGGAAG TATCGAAATCTAAG-3′) and cloned into theBglII site of pMON999-CFP and pMON999-YFP. This resulted in the KAPP-CFP and KAPP-YFP constructs. A 1.6-kb cDNA fragment corresponding to the entire KAPP cDNA missing only the N-terminal type 1 signal anchor was amplified by PCR using primers BglKIKAPnf and BglTKAPr (5′-GGAAGATCTCAGGGAAG TATCGAAATCTAAG-3′) and was similarly cloned into the BglII site of pMON999-CFP and pMON999-YFP. This resulted in the KAPP−SA-CFP and KAPP−SA-YFP constructs. Finally a 0.8-kb fragment corresponding to the KI domain of KAPP cDNA was amplified by PCR using primers BglKIKAPnf (5′-GGAA GATCTATGGGGGATTTGCAGAGACCAC-3′) and BglKIKAPr (5′-GGAAGATCTATTAGCCCCAGGAAGCGGC-3′) and cloned into the BglII site of pMON999-CFP and pMON999-YFP vectors. This resulted in the KAPPKI-CFP and KAPPKI-YFP. All constructs were verified by sequencing.  ER-YFP construct, provided kindly by Dr. Jan Carette and Dr. Joan Wellink (Wageningen University, The Netherlands), contains an N-terminal Arabidopsis thaliana basic chitinase signal sequence and a C-terminal HDEL ER retention signal cloned downstream of the 35S promoter of pMON999-YFP vector.  Cowpea mesophyll protoplasts were prepared essentially as described previously (CITATION) except that 10 mM CaCl2 was added to the enzyme solution (0.5 M mannitol, 10 mM CaCl2, 0.1% cellulase, and 0.05% pectinase). Ten to fifteen micrograms of each purified plasmid DNA was added to 0.5–1 × 106protoplasts in 75–150 μL of ice-cold solution C (0.6 M mannitol, 10 mM CaCl2 at pH 5.3–5.8), mixed by gentle shaking and followed immediately by the addition of 0.5 mL of solution H [40% PEG Mw 6000, 0.6 M mannitol, 0.1 M Ca(NO3)2]. The protoplast suspension was incubated for 5–25 sec with gentle shaking followed by the addition of 4.5 mL of solution M (0.5 M mannitol, 15 mM MgCl2, and 0.1% MES at pH 5.3–5.7) and incubated at room temperature for 20 min. Protoplasts were then washed 3 times with solution C, resuspended in protoplast medium containing 0.6 M mannitol, and incubated for 8–24 h as described (CITATION).  Cowpea mesophyll protoplasts 12 h after transfection withAtSERK1T463A-YFP were incubated on ice for 10 min with 50 μM FM4-64 (Molecular Probes). After labeling, the cells were washed twice and resuspended in protoplast medium. The protoplasts were incubated for 15 min to 3 h at 26°C and viewed by confocal laser microscopy.  Either 1 or 2 d after transfection, the cowpea protoplasts were lysed in ice-cold HB buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl at pH 7.4, 10 mM KAc, 1 mM EDTA, 0.05% Triton X-100) supplemented with single-strength proteinase inhibitor cocktail (Boehringer Mannheim). The lysates were passed through a 25 μm needle and centrifuged at 40,000g for 30 min at 4°C. Ten microliters of 2× SDS sample buffer (100 mM Tris HCl at pH 6.8, 4% SDS, 0.2 % bromophenol blue, and 20% glycerol) and dithiothreitol (DTT) was added to lysates. After boiling for 3 min, the proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE and transferred to nitrocellulose membrane (IMMOBILON) for 3 h at 50V. The membranes were washed in TBS-T buffer (10 mM Tris-HCl at pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 0.2% Tween-20) and blocked with 5% nonfat dried milk in TBS-T for 3 h at room temperature, washed with TBS-T and incubated with the anti-rabbit GFP antibody (1:100 final dilution; Clontech) for 1.5 h at room temperature. After 3 washes in TBS-T, membranes were incubated with alkaline phosphatase conjugated anti-rabbit antibody (1:1000 final dilution; New England Biolabs). Membranes were washed in TBS-T, and incubated in Western blue substrate for Alkaline Phosphatase detection (Promega) until staining was visible.  The intracellular fluorescence and the membrane fluorescence were analyzed with a CLSM 510 confocal laser scanning microscope (Carl-Zeiss). Excitation was provided by the 458 and 514 nm Ar laser lines controlled by an acousto-optical tuneable filter (AOTF). Three dichroic beam splitters were used to separate excitation from emission and to divide the fluorescence emission into the CFP, YFP, and chlorophyll channels. The HFT 458/514 dual dichroic beamsplitter was used as a primary dichroic mirror reflecting excitation and transmitting fluorescence emission; an NFT 635 dichroic mirror was used as a secondary splitter, and an NFT 515 was used as tertiary dichroic splitter. Fluorescence reflected by both the NFT 635 and NFT 515 splitters was filtered through a BP 470–500 nm filter, yielding the CFP signal. Fluorescence reflected by the NFT 635 but transmitted by the NFT 515 splitter was filtered through a BP 535–590 nm filter, yielding the YFP channel. Fluorescence transmitted by both the NFT 515 and 635 splitters was additionally filtered by an LP 650 filter to yield the chlorophyll image. Cross-talk free CFP and YFP images were acquired by operating the microscope in the multi-tracking mode, in which the 514 nm excitation was coupled to activation of the YFP detection channel, and the 458 nm excitation was coupled to activation of the CFP and chlorophyll detection channels.  FM4-64 was excited at 548 nm, and the emitted light was recorded at 565–595 nm. YFP fluorescence was separated from that of FM4-64 by multi-tracking. A 40× oil immersion objective (numerical aperture 1.3) was used for scanning. The pinhole setting was 60 μm, which yielded a theoretical thickness (full width at half-maximum) of ∼1 μm. Images and data captures were analyzed with Zeiss LSM510 software (v2.8).  Fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) between the fluorescently labeled AtSERK1 receptors and the KAPP protein was measured by fluorescence spectral imaging microscopy (FSPIM). For SPIM, excitation was provided by a 100 W Hg Arc lamp of which the 435 nm line was selected by inserting an Omega (Brattleboro, VT) 435DF10 bandpass filter in the excitation light path. The excitation light was reflected onto the sample by an Omega 430DCLP dichroic mirror. A Leica 20× HR-fluotar air objective (NA = 0.5) was used. Residual excitation light was rejected using a Schott (Mainz, Germany) GG455 longpass filter. In the spectrograph (Chromex 250; Chromex, Albuquerque, NM), a 150 grooves/mm grating was used with a central wavelength of 500 nm. For further details of the set-up, see CITATION. Single protoplasts expressing specific CFP and YFP fusion proteins were positioned by aligning them across the entrance slit of the spectrograph (set at 200-μm width corresponding to a line of 10-μm width in the object plane). Acquisition time was 1–2 sec. Regions of the image spectrum corresponding to the plasma membrane or cytosol of labeled cells were distance averaged (typically 5–10 rows of pixels), and the resulting fluorescence spectra were corrected for background fluorescence and camera bias by background subtraction using an extracellular region just next to the plasma membrane region from the same spectral image. The resulting spectra were not corrected for the spectral instrument response, yielding a slightly underestimated intensity in the blue edge of the spectra. 
