!~ABS~! Acyl-coenzyme A (CoA) synthetases (ACSs, EC 6.2.1.3) catalyze the formation of fatty acyl-CoAs from free fatty acid, ATP, and CoA. Essentially all de novo fatty acid synthesis occurs in the plastid. Fatty acids destined for membrane glycerolipid and triacylglycerol synthesis in the endoplasmic reticulum must be first activated to acyl-CoAs via an ACS. Within a family of nine ACS genes from Arabidopsis, we identified a chloroplast isoform,LACS9. LACS9 is highly expressed in developing seeds and young rosette leaves. Both in vitro chloroplast import assays and transient expression of a green fluorescent protein fusion indicated that the LACS9 protein is localized in the plastid envelope. A T-DNA knockout mutant (lacs9-1) was identified by reverse genetics and these mutant plants were indistinguishable from wild type in growth and appearance. Analysis of leaf lipids provided no evidence for compromised export of acyl groups from chloroplasts. However, direct assays demonstrated thatlacs9-1 plants contained only 10% of the chloroplast long-chain ACS activity found for wild type. The residual long-chain ACS activity in mutant chloroplasts was comparable with calculated rates of fatty acid synthesis. Although another isozyme contributes to the activation of fatty acids during their export from the chloroplast, LACS9 is a major chloroplast ACS.
!~RES~! The isolation and cloning of nine Arabidopsis LACSgenes are described in a companion paper (CITATION).CITATION used complementation in a yeast mutant as well as assays of recombinant enzymes to establish the cloned LACSs as functional ACS enzymes. Among these nine, we were interested in identifying a plastidial LACS isoform because it is required for acyl-lipid synthesis in all tissues of the plant. Previous biochemical studies localized plastidial LACS activity in the chloroplast outer envelope (CITATION; CITATION). Among other chloroplastic outer envelope proteins studied, most are not synthesized as higher M r precursors and therefore do not contain a typical N-terminal transit peptide (CITATION). For this reason, we did not expect to identify a plastidial LACS isoform based on sequence analysis alone. Computer software programs, including PSORT (CITATION) and ChloroP (CITATION), were unsuccessful at identifying plastidial LACS isoforms (data not shown). As an alternative approach to identifying a potential plastid-localized LACS, we analyzed RNA expression patterns to identify candidates with transcripts abundant in tissues active in de novo fatty acid synthesis. We reasoned that a plastidial LACS involved in the export of newly synthesized fatty acids for membrane and TAG synthesis would be expressed predominantly in young leaves and developing seeds. Initial RNA gel-blot analysis with gene-specific probes for the nineLACS isoforms indicated that expression patterns varied greatly among the tissues tested (data not shown). The transcript of one isoform, LACS9, was highly expressed in both siliques and young leaves. The results of the LACS9 northern are shown in Figure 1. The tissues represented include flowers and buds, developing siliques, young leaves, older leaves, and roots. The LACS9 probe hybridized to RNA from flowers and buds, and was more abundant in developing siliques. Siliques corresponding to 1 through 5 and 6 through 11 DAF contained the highest levels of LACS9 transcript of all tissues examined. LACS9 transcript was not detectable in mature seed (data not shown) and was present at low levels in older siliques (12–20 DAF), leaves from older plants (50 d), and roots. Although present to a lesser extent than in young, developing siliques,LACS9 accumulated to modest levels in young leaves from 14- and 16-d-old plants. These results are consistent with an expression pattern we expect of a plastidial LACS involved in de novo fatty acid synthesis.  [[FIGURE]] To further investigate the possibility that LACS9 was a plastidial isoform, we performed in vitro chloroplast import assays that provided a rapid and simple way to assess the association of LACS9 with chloroplast membranes (CITATION). Our assay included the small subunit (SSU) of Rubisco (a stromal-targeted protein; CITATION), a hydroperoxide lyase (LeHPL, a protein shown to be targeted to the outer envelope; CITATION), and LACS9. Radiolabeled protein precursors were synthesized in vitro and incubated with intact pea (Pisum sativum) chloroplasts. Membranes from the chloroplasts were then repurified to remove excess precursor proteins and lysed in hypotonic buffer. The lysed chloroplasts were collected by centrifugation. Samples of the membrane fraction were washed in chaotropic buffers (2 m NaCl or 100 mmNa2CO3) to determine the strength of the association with membranes. Supernatant fractions were also recovered. Figure 2 summarizes the results of the import assays. The Rubisco SSU is targeted to the stroma of the chloroplast by a transit peptide that is cleaved after import (CITATION). Figure 2 shows that labeled SSU (prSS) was targeted to the chloroplasts and processed to its mature form and was present in the soluble fraction after all treatments. LeHPL, a hydroperoxide lyase from tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum), has been shown to associate with the chloroplast outer envelope despite the lack of a typical transit peptide (CITATION). In Figure 2, LeHPL associated with chloroplast membranes. Treatment of the membranes with lysis buffer or NaCl did not extract LeHPL. Only extraction with Na2CO3 began to dissociate LeHPL from the membranes, suggesting it is strongly associated with the membranes, as reported (CITATION). LACS9 was also targeted to intact chloroplasts and was present only in the membrane fractions. Like LeHPL, the lysis buffer and NaCl treatments did not dissociate LACS9 from the membrane fraction of lysed chloroplasts, whereas sodium carbonate extracted a portion of LACS9 from chloroplast membranes. From these results, we conclude that LACS9 is strongly associated with chloroplast membranes. In addition, LACS9 does not appear to be proteolytically processed during plastidial targeting because the gel mobility of chloroplast-associated LACS9 was identical to that of the in vitro-translated product. The absence of processing is consistent with localization at the chloroplast envelope as opposed to localization in thylakoid membranes (CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] To provide further evidence that LACS9 is localized in the plastid envelope, we analyzed the transient expression of a LACS9-green fluorescent protein (GFP; at C terminus of LACS9) fusion in onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells. TheLACS9-GFP construct was simultaneously bombarded with a plastidial marker control vector containing an ACP-DsREDfusion. ACP is a soluble protein found in the plastid stroma. As shown in Figure 3, fluorescence from the LACS9-GFP fusion was strongly associated with the outer surface of organelles that the ACP-DsRED fluorescence confirmed as plastids. Outgrowths from these plastids are probably stromules (CITATION) and these also contained LACS9-GFP. The patterns of fluorescence shown in Figure 3 indicate that LACS9 is a plastid envelope protein.  [[FIGURE]] To ascertain the contribution of LACS9 to normal plant growth and development, we initiated a search for an Arabidopsis T-DNA knockout mutant. A search of the T-DNA tagged populations available through the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC; CITATION) was performed using a PCR-based screen with primers designed to either the 5′ or 3′ portions of LACS9 in combination with T-DNA border primers. We generated a PCR band consistent with the presence of a T-DNA interrupting the LACS9 coding region. Sequence analysis of the PCR product generated by using the T-DNA left border primer (LB) and 5′ gene-specific primer (P1) combination revealed the presence of a plant line containing a T-DNA insertional event in the third exon of LACS9 (Fig. 4A). The sequence also showed that 21 bp of the T-DNA left border was truncated upon insertion. Other details on the nature of the insertional event were not investigated.  [[FIGURE]] Seed pool CS2597 (ABRC) contained the plant with the T-DNA insertion inLACS9 and this pool represented seed from 10 individual transformants. To identify mutant (lacs9-1) individuals, seed from pool CS2597 was surface sterilized and plated on germination medium containing kanamycin. After 10 d, 96 kanamycin-resistant individuals were transferred to soil. Genomic DNA was isolated from 12 pools containing eight plants each. The LB/P1 primer combination identified two pools with a lacs9 mutant. Genomic DNA was then isolated from the 16 individual plants. To differentiate heterozygous from homozygous mutants, two PCR reactions were performed for each plant. First, P1/P2 primers were used to screen for the wild-type LACS9 allele. Next, the LB/P1 primers were used to identify the presence of the mutant allele. From the 96 plants, we isolated one plant homozygous for a T-DNA insertion inLACS9, and one plant heterozygous at this locus. Seeds from the heterozygous plant were germinated on kanamycin plates to investigate the number of T-DNA insertional events inlacs9-1. Of 471 seeds, 121 were kanamycin sensitive, which is a good fit to the 3:1 hypothesis for a single insertion (χ2 = 0.033; P > 0.9). To determine if the lacs9-1 mutant had altered levels of LACS9 transcript in response to a T-DNA insertion in the open reading frame, total RNA was isolated from tissues of wild-type, heterozygous, and homozygous mutants and used for northern analysis (Fig. 4B). Wild-type plants expressed full-length LACS9 transcript. The heterozygous mutants also expressed this full-length LACS9transcript. Both the heterozygous and homozygous plants contained a low level of a smaller M r RNA that hybridized to the LACS9 probe. This transcript is equal in size to a truncated LACS9 transcript predicted to be produced by premature termination of LACS9 transcription at or near the site of the T-DNA insertion (Fig. 4A). It can be inferred that any protein translated from this mutant transcript would not be functional because both the putative AMP-/ATP-binding domain and the proposed fatty acid substrate-binding pocket are located downstream of the insertion (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Based on this analysis, it is very likely that thelacs9-1 line is a null for LACS9 activity. The lacs9-1 mutant was indistinguishable from wild-type controls in size and appearance when grown under normal culture conditions. To test for quantitative differences in plant growth, we grew wild-type and lacs9-1 plants at 22°C under a 14:10 (light:dark) photoperiod. Changes in rosette fresh weight were measured by harvesting and weighing plants between 15 and 25 d after sowing. Figure 5 shows the resultant growth curve of wild-type versus lacs9-1 plants. The relative growth rate of lacs9-1(ω−1 = 0.309 ± 0.013) was not significantly different from that of the wild type (ω−1 = 0.301 ± 0.007). The lack of variation in quantitative measurements of growth rate correlates with the observation that there were no outward phenotypic differences between wild-type and lacs9-1 plants. Similar results were obtained when the plants were grown under 16:8 (light:dark) photoperiod (data not shown). In addition, no visible alterations in cellular ultrastructure or leaf anatomy were observed using transmission and scanning electron microscopy on leaves from 13- to 16-d-old plants (data not shown).  [[FIGURE]] The prokaryotic and eukaryotic pathways of lipid synthesis contribute almost equally to chloroplast membrane lipid production in Arabidopsis (CITATION). The balance of fluxes through these pathways may be altered to alleviate a block in one of the pathways (CITATION). For example, the fad2 mutant defective in the ER oleoyl-phosphatidylcholine desaturase exhibits a decreased flux through the eukaryotic pathway and a compensating increase in chloroplast lipid synthesis by the prokaryotic pathway (CITATION). In principle, a decrease in plastidial fatty acid export resulting from the lacs9 mutation might be ameliorated by reduced flux of lipid from the ER back to the chloroplast on the eukaryotic pathway, and a corresponding increase in chloroplast lipid synthesis via the prokaryotic pathway. Such a shift in fluxes through the two pathways is predicted to increase the levels of 16:3 (a specific product of the prokaryotic pathway) in monogalactosyl diacylglycerol and in the overall leaf fatty acid profile. Both of these predicted changes were observed in fad2 plants (CITATION). We extracted leaf lipids from wild-type andlacs9-1 plants and analyzed the fatty acid compositions of individual lipids separated by thin-layer chromatography (TLC). There was no significant difference between wild type and mutant in the proportion of 16:3 in total leaf extracts or in purified monogalactosyl diacylglycerol (data not shown), nor did we discern any other changes that could be interpreted in terms of reduced transfer of acyl groups between the chloroplast and ER. Because northern analysis showed that the LACS9 transcript was more abundant in developing siliques than young leaves (Fig. 1), we monitored the accumulation of fatty acids in developing siliques. Significant changes in the amount of fatty acid methyl esters (FAMEs) were not observed in developing siliques from wild type andlacs9-1. In addition to very similar patterns of lipid accumulation, mutant and wild-type seeds were indistinguishable in size and appearance. Furthermore, the fresh weight and total FAMEs present in mature seed was not significantly different between wild type andlacs9-1 (data not shown). The absence of any detectable phenotype in the lacs9-1mutant and the expectation that a defect in a major chloroplast LACS would result in a pronounced phenotype raised the possibility that LACS9 is a minor LACS isozyme with minimal contribution to overall chloroplast LACS activity. However, the relative abundance ofLACS9 transcript and our demonstration that LACS9 is an active LACS (CITATION) argue against such a conclusion. To directly measure the contribution of the LACS9 isoform to chloroplast LACS activity, we performed in vitro LACS assays on chloroplasts isolated from leaves of 19-d-old wild-type and lacs9-1plants. Isolated chloroplasts were first assayed for LACS activity in hypotonic media using 1-[14C]18:1 or 1-[14C]16:0 as a substrate. Control assays lacking CoA, or in which boiled chloroplasts were used, demonstrated negligible activity (data not shown). Figure6 shows that the LACS activity of wild-type chloroplasts averaged 9.3 nmol fatty acyl-CoA min−1 mg−1 chlorophyll (Chl). In contrast, LACS activity of lacs9-1 chloroplasts averaged 0.98 nmol min−1mg−1 Chl, or 10% of the wild-type activity. Similar results were obtained when the assay was performed in osmotic buffer to prevent chloroplast lysis. This result is consistent with the chloroplast LACS being localized in the envelope with access to fatty acid substrates available in the external medium. Taken together, these results suggest that LACS9 is a major contributor to chloroplastic LACS activity.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The wild-type line of Arabidopsis used in this study is the Wassilewskija ecotype. The lacs9-1 knockout mutant (ABRC seed stock CS2597) is in the Wassilewskija background. Plants were germinated and grown on a commercial potting mixture at 22°C under illumination of fluorescent lights (175 μmol m−2s−1) under a 16:8 (light:dark) photoperiod unless otherwise noted. For measurement of growth rate, samples of 10 randomized plants were individually harvested at 2-d intervals, and the aerial portions were weighed. The Arabidopsis T-DNA-tagged lines available through the ABRC (CITATION) were screened by doing PCR on pooled DNA with the T-DNA left border primer (KFLB; 5′-TGCACTCGAAATCAGCCAATTTTAGA-CAA-3′) in combination with the 5′LACS9 primer (P1; 5′-GAAA-GTTAAACTCAATTCCTCCTGCGATCA-3′) or the 3′LACS9 primer (P2; 5′-GCATATAACTTGGTGAGATCTTCAGAGAATT-3′). The DNA pools were screened according to the protocols suggested by the Arabidopsis knockout facility (http://www.biotech.wisc.edu/Arabidopsis/). Seeds were surface sterilized in 20% (v/v) bleach + 0.1% (v/v) SDS for 20 min and rinsed in sterile water. Sterilized seed suspended in 0.1% (w/v) agarose were germinated on medium containing 4.3 g L−1 Murashige and Skoog salts (CITATION), pH 5.8; 1% (w/v) Suc; 0.35% (w/v) Phytagel (Sigma, St. Louis); and 75 mg L−1 kanamycin. After 10 d, resistant plants were removed and transferred to soil. Total RNA from seeds and silique tissues was isolated using the protocol of CITATION. All other RNA was isolated according to the Trizol protocol (Sigma). RNA was separated on a 1% (w/v) agarose gel in formaldehyde and transferred to nylon membrane overnight in 10× SSC (1.5 m NaCl and 0.15m Na-citrate, pH 7.0). Digoxygenin-labeled probes were synthesized with a PCR-labeling kit (Roche Applied Science, Indianapolis) and blots were hybridized and washed at high stringency according to the manufacturer's protocol. The LACS9probe (bp 1–443 in the cDNA) shares less than 60% identity with the closest homolog, LACS8 (see CITATION). Pea (Pisum sativum var Span) seeds (Crites-Moscow Growers, Inc., Moscow, ID) were germinated in vermiculite and grown under a 16:8 (light:dark) photoperiod. Chloroplasts were isolated from 9- to 10-d-old pea seedlings essentially as described (CITATION). Intact chloroplasts were recovered and resuspended in import buffer (330 mm sorbitol and 50 mm HEPES/KOH, pH 8.0) at 1 mg mL−1 Chl. The plasmid containing prSS was a gift from Dr. Ken Keegstra (Michigan State University, East Lansing; CITATION) and the plasmid containing LeHPL was a gift from Dr. Gregg Howe (Michigan Stage University). The pJAS25 plasmid contains a full-length cDNA ofLACS9 in pET24d (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). The in vitro transcription/translation reactions were performed by using the TNT-coupled wheat germ lysate system (Promega, Madison, WI) with [3H]Leu (NEN, Boston). Import reactions (adapted fromCITATION) received 3 × 106 dpm of translation product after the addition of intact chloroplasts (150 μg Chl) in 450 μL. Reactions were incubated for 30 min at 25°C in the light. Intact chloroplasts were recovered by sedimentation through a 40% (v/v) Percoll cushion. Pellets were resuspended in lysis buffer (25 mm HEPES-KOH, pH 8.0; and 4 mmMgCl2), incubated for 20 min on ice, divided into three equal portions, and pelleted at 100,000g for 30 min. Pellets were resuspended in either lysis buffer, 2 m NaCl, or 100 mm Na2CO3 (CITATION). After ultracentrifugation at 100,000g for 30 min, total membrane and soluble fractions were obtained. Protein was precipitated from the soluble fractions with 10% (v/v) trichloroacetic acid. All fractions were analyzed by SDS-PAGE (CITATION) and fluorography. Luciferase was used as a negative control (Promega) and this protein did not associate with the chloroplasts repurified from the import reactions (data not shown). The LACS9 cDNA sequence was cloned into the transient expression vector pEZS-LN (a gift from Gert-Jan de Boer and Dave Ehrhardt, Carnegie Institution of Washington) to create pJAS33 (5′-CaMV35S-LACS9-GFP-3′). A fusion of ACP with DsRED (CITATION) was used as a positive control for plastid localization (pGJ102R). For transient expression in onion epidermal cells, 25 μL of gold particles (1-μm diameter, 60 mg mL−1 in ethanol) were washed in water before being mixed with 5 μg of plasmid DNA. After addition of 50 μL of 2.5m CaCl2 and 25 μL of 0.1 mspermidine, the DNA was precipitated on the gold particles at room temperature for 3 min with continuous shaking. The gold pellet was washed once in 100% (v/v) ethanol before being resuspended in 25 μL of 100% (v/v) ethanol. Aliquots of gold were spotted on macrocarriers and used to transform onion epidermal cells at 1,300 psi using a PDS 1000HE biolistic device (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA). The bombarded tissue was mounted on microscope coverslips and immersed in 1× Murashige and Skoog medium 12 to 24 h after transformation. Localization was examined using confocal microscopy as described by Cutler et al. with small modifications (CITATION). To eliminate fluorescence in the green channel due to expression of ACP-DsRED, a preset value determined empirically by examining cells expressing ACP-DsRED was subtracted from the signal obtained in the green channel using the Lasersharp software during confocal imaging. Three-dimensional images of cells were reconstructed by importing the data sets into NIH image or ImageJ software, available from the National Institutes of Health. To merge data sets from the different fluorescent channels, the images were imported into the appropriate color channels in Adobe Photoshop software (Adobe Systems, Mountain View, CA). FAME analysis of leaf tissues was done essentially as described (CITATION). The lipid content of leaf tissues was determined by extraction as described (CITATION). Extracted lipids were separated by TLC on (NH4)2SO4-impregnated silica plates with the solvent system of acetone:benzene:water (30:10:2.7 [v/v];CITATION). FAME analysis of individual lipids scraped in silica gel from these plates was carried and as described above. For silique analysis, axillary and secondary inflorescences were removed as they appeared. At 42 d, intact siliques were harvested. The number of siliques removed per sample was determined by dividing the total number of siliques by 10. The samples were removed (excluding the oldest and two youngest samples) and methylated with 17:0 free fatty acid as an internal standard. Chloroplasts (equivalent to 20 μg Chl) were isolated from 19-d-old plants as described above and were added to assay buffer (100 mm Bis-Tris-propane, pH 7.6; 10 mmMgCl2; 5 mm ATP; 0.5 mm CoA; 2.5 mm dithiothreitol; and 1 mm1-[14C]oleic acid [1.96 GBq mmol−1, NEN]) in 100 μL. Assays were terminated by addition of 100 μL of acetic acid:isopropanol (10:90 [v/v]). Reactions were extracted twice with 900 μL of water-saturated hexane, with vigorous vortexing and centrifugation at 5,000g for 5 min. After the second extraction, 100 μL of aqueous phase was added to 10 mL of scintillation cocktail (BCS:water, 90:10 [v/v]; Amersham, Piscataway, NJ). The products of the assay were analyzed by TLC in butanol:acetic acid:water (5:2:3 [v/v]). More than 99% of the label was recovered in a band corresponding to an acyl-CoA standard (data not shown). Leaves from wild type and lacs9-1 do not contain significantly different amounts of Chl on a fresh weight basis (1.90 ± 0.02 mg Chl g−1 fresh weight in each).
