!~ABS~! The large majority of plastid proteins are nuclear-encoded and, thus, must be imported within these organelles. Unlike most of the outer envelope proteins, targeting of proteins to all other plastid compartments (inner envelope membrane, stroma, and thylakoid) is strictly dependent on the presence of a cleavable transit sequence in the precursor N-terminal region. In this paper, we describe the identification of a new envelope protein component (ceQORH) and demonstrate that its subcellular localization is limited to the inner membrane of the chloroplast envelope. Immunopurification, microsequencing of the natural envelope protein and cloning of the corresponding full-length cDNA demonstrated that this protein is not processed in the N-terminal region during its targeting to the inner envelope membrane. Transient expression experiments in plant cells were performed with truncated forms of the ceQORH protein fused to the green fluorescent protein. These experiments suggest that neither the N-terminal nor the C-terminal are essential for chloroplastic localization of the ceQORH protein. These observations are discussed in the frame of the endosymbiotic theory of chloroplast evolution and suggest that a domain of the ceQORH bacterial ancestor may have evolved so as to exclude the general requirement of an N-terminal plastid transit sequence. 
!~RES~! During the course of the identification of new chloroplast envelope protein components (CITATION,CITATION) some peptide sequences were obtained, which shared homology with a putative Arabidopsis protein (AGI accession number At4g13010; TrEMBL accession number Q9SV68). Whereas most of the envelope proteins identified during these early publications were highly hydrophobic, this putative protein was structurally related to soluble bacterial, fungal, and animal proteins of known quinone oxidoreductase function. Because of its possible function and since this ceQORH protein could participate in the redox chains previously detected in the chloroplast envelope membranes (CITATION), we decided to further investigate the subcellular localization of this ceQORH protein.  To obtain a polyclonal antibody raised against this protein the corresponding Arabidopsis cDNA was cloned and the full-length protein was overexpressed in E. coli. The recombinant ceQORH protein overexpressed in E. coli (Fig.1 A) was recovered in two distinct fractions: a soluble fraction in the E. colicytosol (Fig. 1 A, lane S) and an insoluble fraction (Fig. 1 A, lane I). As a high (0.5%) concentration of Triton X-100 did not release the insoluble fraction of the recombinant protein in the soluble phase, this fraction (Fig.1 A, lane I) is likely to correspond to aggregated protein (inclusion bodies). The soluble fraction of the N-terminal His-tagged recombinant protein was further purified by metal affinity chromatography. During this purification process, the ceQORH protein still behaved as a soluble protein (Fig. 1 B) as expected for a member of this quinone oxidoreductase family (CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] Since the recombinant ceQORH protein appeared to be, at least in part, soluble in the E. colicytosol (Fig. 1 A), actual association of this protein with the chloroplast envelope remained to be demonstrated. Western blots performed on chloroplast subfractions demonstrated that this protein is only present within the chloroplast envelope (Fig.2 A, lane E) and not detected in other chloroplast subfractions (Fig. 2 A,lanes S, T). From these data, it can be concluded that the ceQORH protein is associated exclusively with the envelope membrane and is not a soluble stroma protein contaminating the envelope preparations.  [[FIGURE]] It is generally accepted that Percoll-purified intact chloroplasts are free from cytosolic contaminants (CITATION). However, the ceQORH protein could be a soluble protein specifically interacting with the outer membrane of the chloroplast envelope thus, co-purifying with the purified chloroplast envelope membranes. To test this hypothesis, intact chloroplasts were treated with the thermolysin ofBacillus thermoproteolyticus as previously described (CITATION). As presented in the Fig. 2 B, the ceQORH protein remained unaffected by the thermolysin treatment performed on intact plastids. In contrast, complete degradation of the ceQORH protein was observed when the same proteolytic treatment was performed on solubilized envelope proteins, thus demonstrating the sensitivity of the ceQORH protein to thermolysin treatment (Fig. 2 C). This result indicates that the ceQORH protein is not accessible to thermolysin from the cytosolic surface of the chloroplast, thus ruling out the hypothesis that the ceQORH protein could be a soluble cytosolic contaminant of the chloroplast envelope preparations or an envelope component associated with the outer face of the outer envelope membrane.  Finally, immunodetection of the ceQORH protein demonstrated that this protein is only present in the inner membrane of the chloroplast envelope (Fig. 2 D, lane IM). The purity of the envelope subfractions was controlled using antibodies raised against IE18 and OEP24 proteins, which serve as marker molecules for inner and outer envelope membrane proteins respectively (CITATION, CITATION). Thus, unlike the other members of this quinone oxidoreductase family (CITATION), the ceQORH protein behaves as a genuine membrane protein.  At this stage, the apparent solubility of the recombinant ceQORH produced inE. coli and its exclusive localization in the inner membrane of the chloroplast envelope were contradictory. One hypothesis was that ceQORH could be a soluble protein localized in the intermembrane space between the inner and the outer membrane of the chloroplast envelope. This protein could be copurified with inner envelope preparations, sequestrated in membrane vesicles. Some major soluble stroma proteins, which are sequestrated in the envelope vesicles, are known to contaminate envelope fractions (e.g. large Rubisco subunit). These proteins can be released from envelope preparations by opening/closing of the membrane vesicles after sonication (Fig.3 A, lane 2 andRbcL). Since the ceQORH protein was not solubilized after sonication of membrane vesicles (Fig. 3 A, lane 2), it is likely to physically interact with the inner envelope membrane.  [[FIGURE]] To test the nature of the association between ceQORH and the inner envelope membrane, membranes were washed by application of salt and alkaline treatments (CITATION). One of the standard method to determine the interaction of a protein with a membrane is to examine the effects of an alkaline Na2CO3 solution, which strips peripheral membrane proteins leaving intrinsic proteins associated with the lipid bilayer. Alkaline extractions using Na2CO3 (0.1 m, pH 11) induced a release in the soluble phase of a major part of the protein, and all the protein was solubilized using NaOH (0.1 m) treatment (Fig. 3 A, lanes 5, 6). These observations indicate that ceQORH is not a transmembrane protein, bound to membrane through strong hydrophobic interactions (in contrast with IE18, which is not solubilized using Na2CO3treatment; Fig. 3 A, lane 5). Indeed, these observations are consistent with the predicted hydrophobicity of the ceQORH protein, since no membrane-spanning domain could be predicted from its hydropathy profile (Fig. 1 C). Moreover, salt treatments of envelope vesicles with NaCl (0.5 m) or KI (0.5 m) also induced a partial release of the ceQORH protein in the soluble phase (Fig. 3 A, lanes 3,4). Because ceQORH binding to the membrane is sensitive to high salt concentrations, this suggests that electrostatic interactions play an important role in the ceQORH ability to bind to membranes.  Moreover, complete release of the ceQORH protein was achieved with a relatively low (0.2%) concentration of Triton X-100 (Fig.3 B), whereas high concentrations are required to release intrinsic membrane proteins (e.g. release of the intrinsic protein IE18 requires a detergent concentration of 2% Triton X-100, see Ref. CITATION).  Taken together, these results indicate that ceQORH is a genuine inner envelope membrane protein. It might be peripherally associated with the membrane via electrostatic interactions, with an intrinsic component of the inner envelope membrane or with the polar surface of this membrane. Moreover, since the recombinant ceQORH protein was, at least in part, soluble when produced in E. coli, this electrostatic interaction might occur via a plant specific posttranslational modification or via interaction with a specific envelope membrane component.  Surprisingly, while localized in the inner membrane of the chloroplast envelope, the ceQORH protein does not contain a classical N-terminal additional sequence when compared with bacterial or animal homologues (see later). This observation raised the possibility that, conversely to all other known inner envelope proteins, the ceQORH could be targeted to the inner envelope of the chloroplast without classical cleavage of an N-terminal transit sequence. To test this hypothesis, new peptide sequence informations were required in the N-terminal part of the envelope ceQORH protein. Because the purest chloroplast envelope preparations are obtained from spinach and due to requirement of large amounts of envelope protein to perform this experiment, the natural protein was purified from spinach envelope preparations.  Immunopurification of the native spinach ceQORH protein was performed (see supplemental data at http://www.jbc.org) using the polyclonal antibody raised against the Arabidopsis ceQORH and mass spectrometry analyses allowed obtaining several new peptide sequences from this purified protein. These peptide sequences were used to clone the spinach cDNA (1179 nucleotides) coding the ceQORH protein (329 amino acids). Identity of the clone was confirmed, since the nine different peptide sequences were identical to the primary sequence deduced from the spinach cDNA (Fig.4). The spinach ceQORH protein presents 75.1% identity and 88.8% similarity with the ArabidopsisceQORH protein. From screening all available databases, no otherArabidopsis protein was found that presents more than 35% identity with the ceQORH from Arabidopsis or spinach. This strongly suggests that orthologous Arabidopsis and spinach genes encode the two plant proteins. A stop codon, localized in the 5′-UTR of the cDNA and in frame with the spinach ceQORH translation start codon (Fig. 4), was identified by two independent 5′ RACE-PCR amplifications performed with two independent primers, thus suggesting that the 5′-part of the cDNA was complete (Fig. 4). Finally, peptide sequences were obtained that correspond to the N-terminal region of the primary sequence deduced from the ceQORH spinach cDNA (Fig. 4). Surprisingly, these data strongly suggested that, in contrast with all other known inner envelope proteins, the spinach ceQORH protein is not processed during its targeting to the inner membrane of the chloroplast envelope.  [[FIGURE]] However, these data could also be explained in another way. There are many reports on alternative splicing in higher plants (CITATION), and alternative splicing may occur that would induce synthesis of multiple forms of ceQORH mRNA (with or without an extended N-terminal region coding for a chloroplast transit peptide). In this case, several 5′ RACE-PCR experiments showing the presence of only one transcript may not be totally conclusive.  Further evidence supporting the fact that no additional N-terminal sequence is required for the localization of ceQORH in chloroplast was obtained from in vivo expression of the ceQORH in plant cells. Transient expressions of GFP fusions were performed into both Arabidopsis and BY2 tobacco cells. As expected, the expressed GFP protein (negative control) was distributed uniformly in the cytosol and in the nucleus (see Fig. 6,GFP), whereas the plastid control (transit sequence of RbcS fused to GFP) was targeted to the chloroplast (Fig. 6,TP-GFP). Transient expressions of the complete ceQORH protein (Fig. 5) were then performed. As shown in Fig. 6, plastid localization was obtained with the ceQORH protein when GFP was fused to its C-terminus (Fig. 6, ceQORH). In conclusion, this result (together with previous experiments) indicates that the ceQORH does not require an additional N-terminal (a cleavable chloroplast transit peptide) for plastid localization.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Sequence comparison between the ceQORH proteins and other proteins from the same family, revealed that their 50 first residues in the N-terminal region are highly conserved from bacterial to plant and animal proteins (Fig. 5). This observation strongly suggests that the N-terminal region of the plant ceQORH proteins may not be directly required for the specific chloroplastic targeting but would have been most probably conserved through evolution due to selective pressure on a catalytic domain of the protein. For further examination of the domain required for plastid localization of the ceQORH protein, we generated several truncated versions of the ceQORH protein and transient expressions of corresponding GFP fusions were tested into Arabidopsis and BY2 tobacco cells.  Surprisingly, while lacking the N-terminal 31 or 59 amino acids (Fig.5), truncated forms of the ceQORH protein could still drive the GFP to the plastids (Fig. 6, Δ(1–59)ceQORH). This demonstrated that the N-terminal part of ceQORH (59 first residues) is not essential for plastid localization. In contrast, a truncated form of the ceQORH protein lacking the first 99 amino acids and fused to the GFP (Fig. 5) was unable to drive the GFP to the plastids (Fig. 6,Δ(1–99)ceQORH). This suggests that this N-terminal part of ceQORH (first 100 residues) contains essential information to drive ceQORH to the plastids. To test whether this N-terminal part of ceQORH is sufficient to drive ceQORH to the plastid, the expression of the first six to 100 amino acids of the ceQORH protein fused to the GFP protein was tested (Fig. 5). These first six to 100 amino acids could drive GFP to plastids (Fig. 6 (6–100)ceQORH), thus suggesting that (i) this N-terminal sequence (100 residues) contains essential and sufficient information to drive ceQORH to the plastid and that (ii) the C-terminal sequence (229 residues) is not required for plastid localization. As the N-terminal sequence (100 residues) is sufficient to drive ceQORH to the plastid and since the first 60 residues are not required for plastid localization (Fig. 6, Δ(1–59)ceQORH), these strongly suggests that an internal region of 41 amino acids in the ceQORH protein (residues 59 to 100) is the only essential region required for plastid localization. Expression of this internal ceQORH domain (residues 59–100) fused to the GFP protein was thus performed (Fig.5). However, while essential for plastid localization of the protein, this domain appeared not to be sufficient to drive GFP to the plastids (Fig. 6, (60–100)ceQORH) thus suggesting that association of this internal ceQORH region with a downstream or upstream sequence is required for plastid localization. 
!~MM~! All operations were carried out at 0–5 °C. Crude chloroplasts were obtained from 3–4 kg of spinach (Spinacia oleracea L.) leaves and purified by isopyknic centrifugation using Percoll gradients (CITATION). At this step of purification, protease inhibitors (1 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, 1 mmbenzamidine, and 0.5 mm amino caproic acid) were added to prevent any protein degradation. Purified intact chloroplasts were lysed in hypotonic medium, and envelope membranes were purified from the lysate by centrifugation on sucrose gradients (CITATION). Envelope subfractions respectively enriched in outer and inner membranes were obtained from purified intact spinach chloroplasts as previously described (CITATION). To study polypeptides localized on the external face of the outer membrane, intact chloroplast were treated with thermolysin from Bacillus thermoproteolyticus as previously described (CITATION). All types of envelope membranes preparations were stored in liquid nitrogen in 50 mm MOPS-NaOH, pH 7.8, in the presence of protease inhibitors (1 mm benzamidine and 0.5 mm amino caproic acid). Protein contents of membrane fractions were estimated using the BIO-RAD protein assay reagent (CITATION).  Solubilization of envelope membrane proteins with CHAPS or Triton X-100 were performed as follows. Envelope proteins (0.8 mg) were diluted in 1 ml of 50 mm MOPS, pH 7.8, containing 0.2% (v/v) Triton X-100 or 6 mm CHAPS. After incubation at 4 °C for 30 min, the mix was centrifuged (130,000 ×g, 20 min, 4 °C) to separate (i) a supernatant containing membrane proteins solubilized by the treatment and (ii) a pellet containing the insoluble proteins.  SDS-PAGE analyses of chloroplast subfractions or chloroplast envelope subfractions were performed as described by Chua (CITATION). For Western blotting experiments, gels were transferred electrophoretically to a nitrocellulose membrane (BA85, Schleicher & Schuell). The immunoblot assay was performed according to the protocol from BIO-RAD Laboratories except that 5% non-fat dry milk was used to saturate the membrane. The ceQORH protein was detected using the polyclonal antibodies raised against the recombinantArabidopsis protein at a 1/5000 dilution using alkaline phosphatase detection.  After SDS-PAGE, protein bands were excised from the Coomassie Blue-stained gel. Conditions for in-gel tryptic digestion and peptide elution were described previously (CITATION). The peptide solution was introduced into a glass capillary (Protana) for nanoelectrospray ionization. Tandem mass spectrometry experiments were carried out on a Q-TOF (quadrupole orthogonal acceleration time-of-flight) hybrid mass spectrometer (Micromass) to obtain sequence information. Collision-induced dissociation of selected precursor ions was performed using argon as the collision gas and with collision energies of 40–60 eV. Tandem mass spectrometry sequence information were used for data base searching using the programs MS-Edman located at the University of California San Francisco (prospector.ucsf.edu/) and BLAST located at the NCBI (www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/BLAST/). Prediction for membrane-spanning regions was achieved using the software programs TMpred (www.ch.embnet.org/software/TMPRED_form.html) (CITATION).  Purification of total RNAs from spinach orArabidopsis leave were performed using the RNeasy Plant Mini Kit from Qiagen Laboratories. Purification of mRNA from the total RNA fraction was performed using the mRNA Direct Kit from Dynal Laboratories. Constructions of the spinach andArabidopsis cDNA libraries were performed using the Marathon cDNA Amplification Kit from Clontech Laboratories. All RACE-PCR experiments were performed using the Advantage cDNA Polymerase Mix from Clontech Laboratories.  Cloning of the ArabidopsiscDNA coding the ceQORH from Arabidopsis was performed by PCR, on an Arabidopsis cDNA library using primers designed on the basis of the Arabidopsis genome sequence (AGI accession number AT4G13010) encoding the putative ceQORH protein (TrEMBL accession number Q9SV68). Two primers TCACATATGGCTGGAAAACTCAATGCAC and ATGGATCCAACGCTCTTATGGCTCGAC were designed respectively to introduce NdeI and BamHI recognition sites (underlined residues) at the 5′ and 3′ ends of the ceQORH cDNA. The amplified fragment was cloned in pBlueScript SK−. The insert was then digested withNdeI and BamHI and inserted into the expression vector pET-15b (Novagen). The resulting expression plasmid was used to express the N-terminal His-tagged ceQORH protein in E. coli strain BLR(DE3) (Novagen). The recombinant protein was purified by metal affinity chromatography (His-Bind resin, Novagen) and desalted (PD-10 column, Amersham Biosciences). This purified ceQORH from Arabidopsis was used (i) to raise a rabbit polyclonal antibodies against this protein (obtained from theElevage Scientifique des Dombes, F-01400 Châtillon sur Chalaronne, France) and (ii) as a tool in the immunopurification of the ceQORH from spinach chloroplast envelope membranes.  Envelope proteins (1 mg) were solubilized in 1 ml of 50 mm Tris/HCl, 150 mm NaCl, and 6 mm CHAPS and incubated 1 h at 4 °C with 33 μl of serum raised against the purifiedArabidopsis recombinant ceQORH. Protein A-agarose (50 μg; Boehringer) was added, and the mix was incubated for 3 h at 4 °C. After three successive washings by centrifugation (Eppendorf 5415D, 16,000 × g, 20 min, 4 °C) of the protein A-agarose and pellet suspension in 1 ml of solubilization buffer (20 mm MOPS, pH 7.8, 150 mm NaCl, 6 mmCHAPS), 50 μg of His-tagged recombinant Arabidopsisprotein, incubated in 200 μl of solubilization buffer, was added. The mix was incubated for 1 h at 4 °C and centrifuged for 20 min at 16,000 × g (Eppendorf 5415D). Supernatant was incubated for 1 h with Ni-NTA resin (Qiagen), previously equilibrated in the solubilization buffer to remove the majority of the His-tagged recombinant Arabidopsis protein. After centrifugation (Eppendorf 5415D, 16,000 × g, 20 min, 4 °C) the supernatant was analyzed by SDS-PAGE.  To isolate the spinach ceQORH cDNA, RACE-PCR were performed using degenerated primers synthesized on the basis of the spinach protein microsequences. Primers Rev (GCNCCYTCNGGNGTYTTRTARTC) and Fwd (GAYTAYAARACNCCNGARGGNGC) were designed respectively for 5′ or 3′ RACE-PCR amplifications. Positive amplification was obtained from 5′ RACE-PCR amplification performed with the primer Rev and the Adaptator Primer AP1 (CTAATACGACTCACTATAGGGCTCGAGCGGCCGCCCGGGCAGGT) provided with the Marathon cDNA Amplification Kit (Clontech Laboratories). Amplified fragments were inserted into the pBlueScript SK− vector and sequenced from both ends with standard T3 and T7 primers as well as with insert-specific primers (the 5′ sequence revealed the ceQORH translation start codon and a stop codon in frame with this ATG in the 5′-UTR). The complete cDNA sequence coding for the spinach ceQORH was obtained from 5′ and 3′ RACE-PCR performed with primers AP1 and non-degenerated primers D (CAGCAACATCAGTTCCAGGTATAG) and A (ACACGCATGTAACAGCAACATGTG), respectively. Note that the existence of the stop codon localized within the 5′-UTR and in frame with the translation start codon was confirmed with this new 5′ RACE-PCR using primers D and AP1.  The GFP reporter plasmid 35Ω-sGFP(S65T) and the plasmid containing the transit peptide (TP) sequence from RBCS fused to GFP [35Ω-TP-sGFP(S65T)] were described previously (CITATION). Construction of the plasmids for expression of truncated Arabidopsis ceQORH protein fused to GFP were performed as follows. The 35Ω-ceQORH-sGFP(S65T) plasmid corresponding to the coding region of Arabidopsis ceQORH was PCR-amplified using the two flanking primers XhoI-N-ter (CCTCTCGAGATGGCTGGAAAACTCATGCAC) and NcoI-C-ter (CAACCCATGGATGGCTCGACAATGATCTTC), and the PCR product was cloned into the pBlueScript SK− Vector. TheXhoI-NcoI fragment cleaved from this plasmid was inserted into the SalI-NcoI digested GFP reporter plasmid 35Ω-sGFP(S65T) to create the 35Ω-ceQORH-sGFP(S65T) vector. The protocol was similar for the other constructions. The 35Ω-Δ(1–31)ceQORH-sGFP(S65T) plasmid corresponding to ceQORH lacking the first 31 amino acids was PCRamplified using the two flanking primers SalI-N-ter (CGGTTGTCGACATGAAGAGTAATGAGGTTTGCCTG) andNcoI-C-ter (CAACCCATGGATGGCTCGACAATGATCTTC). The 35Ω-Δ(1–59)ceQORH-sGFP(S65T) plasmid corresponding to ceQORH lacking the first 59 amino acids was PCR-amplified using the two flanking primers SalI-N-ter (GAATGGTCGACATGTTTCTGCCCCGCAAGTTC) andNcoI-C-ter (CAACCCATGGATGGCTCGACAATGATCTTC). The 35Ω-Δ(1–99)ceQORH-sGFP(S65T) plasmid corresponding to ceQORH lacking the first 99 amino acids was PCR-amplified using the two flanking primers SalI-N-ter (GGTTGTCGACATGCTAGGTGGAGGTGGACTTG) andNcoI-C-ter (CAACCCATGGATGGCTCGACAATGATCTTC). The 35Ω-(6–100)ceQORH-sGFP(S65T) plasmid containing the first six to 100 amino acids of ceQORH was PCR-amplified using the two flanking primersXhoI-N-ter (CCTCTCGAGATGGCTGGAAAAACTCATGCAC) andNcoI-C-ter (ACCCATGGCTAGATGGCTAAGAACCGCTAC). The 35Ω-(60–100)ceQORH-sGFP(S65T) plasmid containing the first 60–100 amino acids of ceQORH was PCR-amplified using the two flanking primers SalI-N-ter (GAATGGTCGACATGTTTCTGCCCCGCAAGTTC) andNcoI-C-ter (ACCCATGGCTAGATGGCTAAGAACCGCTAC). The 35Ω-QORECOLI-sGFP(S65T) plasmid containing the QOR protein fromE. coli (accession number P28304) was PCR-amplified using the two flanking primers XhoI-QORNter (GTTCTCGAGGACACATGGCAACAC) and NcoI-QORCter (CTATTCCATGGATGGAATCAGCAGGCTGGAAC). Correct orientation and sequences of the inserted fragments were controlled. The plasmids used for tissue bombardment were prepared using the QIAfilter Plasmid Midi Kit (Qiagen Laboratories).   Arabidopsis cells were grown in light for 3 days in a Gamborg's B5 media (Sigma, pH 5.8) complemented with 1.5% sucrose and 1 μm naphthalene acetic acid. 15 ml of cell suspension (corresponding approximately to 0.5 g of fresh weight) were applied in Petri dishes containing the same growth media with 0.8% bacto-agar (Invitrogen) and were incubated for 18–36 h in light. BY2 tobacco cells were grown for 5 days at 27 °C in a Murashige and Skoog medium (Duchefa, pH 5.8) complemented with 3% sucrose, 0.2% KH2PO4, 0.2% myo-inositol, 1 μm2.4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid, and 3 μm thiamin. Cell suspension (2.5 ml, corresponding approximately to 0.3 g of fresh weight) were applied in Petri dishes containing the same growth media with 1% bacto-agar and stored at 27 °C during 18–24 h. Plasmids of appropriate constructions (1 μg) were introduced intoArabidopsis and BY2 cells using a pneumatic particle gun (PDS-1000/He; Bio-Rad). The condition of bombardment was helium pressure of 1350 p.s.i., 1100 p.s.i. rupture disks (Bio-Rad), 10-cm target distance using 1 μm of gold microcarriers (Bio-Rad). After bombardment, cells were incubated on the plates for 18–36 h (in light for the Arabidopsis cells). Cells were transferred to glass slides before fluorescence microscopy.  Localization of GFP and GFP fusions was analyzed in transformed cells by fluorescence microscopy using a Zeiss Axioplan2 fluorescence microscope, and the image was captured with a digital charge-coupled devices camera (Hamamatsu). The filter sets used were Zeiss filter set 13, 488013–0000 (exciter BP 470/20, beamsplitter FT 493, emitter BP 505–530) and Zeiss filter set 15, 488015–0000 (exciter BP 546/12, beamsplitter FT 580, emitter LP 590) for GFP and autofluorescence of chlorophylls, respectively. Cells were observed with a 400× magnification. 
