!~ABS~! Abscisic acid (ABA) regulates developmental processes and abiotic stress responses in plants. We recently characterized a new Arabidopsis mutant, abh1, which shows ABA-hypersensitive regulation of seed germination, stomatal closing, and cytosolic calcium increases in guard cells (V. Hugouvieux, J.M. Kwak, J.I. Schroeder [2001] Cell 106: 477–487). ABH1 encodes the large subunit of a dimeric Arabidopsis mRNA cap-binding complex and in expression profiling experiments was shown to affect mRNA levels of a subset of genes. Here, we show that the dimeric ABH1 and AtCBP20 subunits are ubiquitously expressed. Whole-plant growth phenotypes ofabh1 are described and properties of ABH1 in guard cells are further analyzed. Complemented abh1 lines expressing a green fluorescent protein-ABH1 fusion protein demonstrate that ABH1 mainly localizes in guard cell nuclei. Stomatal apertures were smaller in abh1 compared with wild type (WT) when plants were grown at 40% humidity, and similar at 95% humidity. Correlated with stomatal apertures from plants grown at 40% humidity, slow anion channel currents were enhanced and inward potassium channel currents were decreased in abh1 guard cells compared with WT. Gas exchange measurements showed similar primary humidity responses inabh1 and WT, which together with results fromabh1/abi1-1 double-mutant analyses suggest thatabh1 shows enhanced sensitivity to endogenous ABA. Double-mutant analyses of the ABA-hypersensitive signaling mutants,era1-2 and abh1, showed complex genetic interactions, suggesting that ABH1 and ERA1 do not modulate the same negative regulator in ABA signaling. Mutations in the RNA-binding protein sad1 showed hypersensitive ABA-induced stomatal closing, whereas hyl1 did not affect this response. These data provide evidence for the model that the mRNA-processing proteins ABH1 and SAD1 function as negative regulators in guard cell ABA signaling.
!~RES~!  ABH1 was shown to be expressed in guard cells (CITATION). Northern-blot analyses were performed on poly(A+) RNA extracted from WT roots, leaves, flowers, and stems to analyze ABH1 gene expression in various organs. As shown in Figure 1,ABH1 transcript was present in all tissues analyzed, with high expression in flowers. The AtCBP20 gene encodes the small subunit of the CBC and is required for in vitro binding of ABH1 to the 7-methyl guanosine cap structure of mRNA (CITATION). AtCBP20 showed the same expression pattern asABH1 (Fig. 1).  [[FIGURE]] WT transgenic seedlings expressing the β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene under the control of the ABH1 promoter (genomic sequence containing 1.2 kb from the 5′ end of theABH1 start site; CITATION) were used to further analyze in which tissues the ABH1 promoter was active. As expected, GUS activity was detected in roots and hypocotyls (Fig. 2A), cotyledons (Fig. 2B), and leaves (Fig. 2C). GUS activity was not detected in root or apical meristems (data not shown). The ABH1 promoter was highly active in vascular tissues (hypocotyls, roots, cotyledons, and leaves; Fig. 2, A–C). ABH1 expression was also observed in the vascular tissues of petals (data not shown). In 2-d-old seedlings, GUS activity was often first visually detectable in the hypocotyl (Fig.2E); however, this restricted expression pattern disappeared in 8-d-old seedlings, suggesting a developmental control of ABH1expression. The ABH1 promoter was active in guard cells (Fig. 2D; CITATION). The same patterns of expression were observed in three independent homozygous lines.  [[FIGURE]] ABH1 is a negative regulator of ABA signaling (CITATION). We further investigated whether ABA treatment induces changes in the ABH1 transcript level. As shown in Figure3, treatment of WT leaves with 100 μm ABA for 4 h did not changeABH1 transcript levels (Fig. 3; n = 2 experiments). In control experiments, the transcript level of ABA-inducible genes was increased in WT plants, includingCOR47 (Fig. 3), RAB18, ABI1, andABI2 (data not shown). Treatments with lower concentrations of ABA (0.1, 1, and 10 μm) were also performed and again showed no ABA regulation of ABH1 at the transcript level. The lack of ABA regulation of ABH1 mRNA levels was also observed after drought treatment (data not shown). As positive controls, under drought conditions, induction of the drought-induced gene, COR47, was observed (data not shown).  [[FIGURE]] Considering the expression pattern of the ABH1 gene in vegetative tissues (Figs. 1 and 2), several morphological and growth characteristics of abh1 and WT plants were analyzed.abh1 plants showed a slightly serrated leaf phenotype (Fig.4, top left) that is complemented inabh1 plants expressing the WT copy of the ABH1gene (Fig. 4, lower right). Interestingly, this leaf phenotype was also observed in homozygous abh1/era1-2 andabh1/abi1-1 double mutants, which were indistinguishable from the abh1 mutant in leaf morphology (data not shown).  [[FIGURE]] After exposure of seeds to 4°C for 4 d, 6-month-oldabh1 and WT seeds germinated at the same rate in the absence of exogenous ABA (CITATION). Under these conditions,abh1 plants were smaller than WT after 3 weeks of growth (Fig. 5A) and showed a delay in bolting and flowering time after 6 weeks (Fig. 5B). However, abh1and WT appeared very similar at maturity (Fig. 5C). An approximately 5- to 10-d delay was observed in flowering of abh1 plants compared with WT. This delay varied among plants showing slightly different genetic penetrance among individual plants. The same number of leaves (between eight and 10) was observed in abh1 and WT plants when they started bolting, suggesting that abh1growth is slowed compared with WT and that abh1 is not a late-flowering mutant that shows an increased leaf number when flowering. To further investigate whether abh1 growth was slower compared with WT, we followed the shoot and the main root's development in abh1 and WT seedlings grown in petri dishes. As shown in Figure 5D, the appearance and development of the first two leaves were delayed in abh1 compared with WT after 6 and 9 d of growth. Root length was slightly decreased inabh1 compared with WT after 11 d of growth, although root length was similar after 2 d in both WT and abh1(Fig. 5E). These data suggested that abh1 growth is delayed compared with WT. Morphological characteristics of abh1 and WT plants were further analyzed and compared at maturity. As summarized in Table I, the only significant difference observed between abh1 and WT was in the length of the main stem, which was decreased in abh1 by approximately 15% to 20%. No significant differences were observed in the number of seeds per plant, the number of petals per flower, or the number of secondary and lateral branches. These data showed that theabh1 mutation does not significantly affect important developmental processes during growth and further reaffirms the relative dearth of pleiotropic effects of the abh1mutation.  [[FIGURE]] Morphological characteristics of abh1 and WT We showed that ABH1, together with AtCBP20, binds the 7-methyl guanosine cap structure of mRNA in vitro, and that its disruption leads to abnormal transcript accumulation of a limited number of genes in planta (CITATION), which suggests that ABH1 has a role in mRNA processing. To obtain further insights into ABH1 function in guard cells, we analyzed where the protein was localized. To investigate the subcellular localization of the ABH1 protein, ABH1 and green fluorescent protein (GFP) coding sequences were fused in frame to produce both N- and C-terminal fusions. abh1mutant plants expressing the N-terminal fusion protein, GFP-ABH1, showed complementation of the abh1 mutant based on seed germination assays with ABA and on suppression of the serrated leaf phenotype (data not shown), illustrating that GFP-ABH1 was functional. The C-terminal fusion protein, ABH1-GFP, showed no complementation of the abh1 mutant based on ABA-dependent seed germination analyses and on the persistence of the serrated leaf phenotype (data not shown). These data suggest that the C-terminal domain of ABH1 is important for ABH1 function. Thus, further analyses were performed on the functional GFP-ABH1 lines. The subcellular localization of GFP-ABH1 was analyzed in guard cells and epidermal cells (Fig. 6, A–I). Untransformed WT plants, as expected, showed no GFP fluorescence (Fig.6, A and E). The GFP-ABH1 fusion protein was mainly found in nuclei in both WT and abh1 plants and a slight GFP activity was detected in the cytosol (Fig. 6, G–I). The same pattern of expression was observed using the C-terminal fusion (data not shown). In control experiments, in which WT plants expressed the GFP protein fused to the GUS protein, the GFP-GUS fusion protein was detected in the cytosol (Fig. 6F). The nuclear localization of GFP-ABH1 and complementation of abh1 by this fusion protein support the proposed function of ABH1 as a subunit of a nuclear RNA CBC.  [[FIGURE]] To better understand the function of ABH1 in guard cell signaling, we further investigated guard cell phenotypes in abh1plants. When stomatal apertures were measured in leaves harvested directly from plants grown under low humidity (40%), stomatal apertures of abh1 were smaller than those of WT plants (Fig.7A). WT stomatal apertures were restored in three homozygous abh1 lines transformed with theABH1 gene (Fig. 7A). In contrast, for plants exposed to 95% humidity (overnight treatment), stomatal apertures in abh1and WT were similar (abh1 stomatal aperture width/length, 0.17 ± 0.04; WT stomatal aperture width/length, 0.16 ± 0.02; n = 3 experiments ±sd). The smaller stomatal apertures observed inabh1 plants exposed to 40% humidity possibly resulted either from hypersensitivity to endogenous ABA or becauseabh1 showed an altered response to low humidity.  [[FIGURE]] To distinguish between these two possibilities, we investigated the humidity response of abh1 plants by comparing stomatal conductances of WT and abh1 at various humidities using an infrared gas analyzer (Fig. 7B). Gas exchange in abh1 plants at 40% humidity was slightly reduced compared with WT (Fig. 7B), consistent with stomatal aperture measurements (Fig. 7A). Stomata ofabh1 closed upon introduction of lower humidity, as did WT stomata (Fig. 7B). The rapid response in gas exchange experiments to step changes in humidity was previously shown to be independent of ABA signaling in Arabidopsis (CITATION). Indistinguishable gas exchange responses to step changes in humidity in abh1 and WT (Fig. 7B) suggest that abh1 does not directly modulate the rapid primary humidity response. We also observed that stomatal apertures of abi1-1 were generally larger than those of WT plants (Landsberg erecta [Ler] background) when no ABA was added, including plants grown at 40% humidity (described later), and abi1-1 does not affect the stomatal response to humidity (CITATION). These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that reduced stomatal apertures in abh1 at low humidity are because of signaling mediated by endogenous ABA. ABA induces cytosolic Ca2+ increases, which in turn activate slow anion channels and inhibit K+ in channels in guard cells (CITATION; CITATION). The activities of guard cell slow anion channels and K+ in channels were investigated in abh1 and WT grown at 40% humidity, which causes reduced stomatal apertures in abh1 (Fig. 7A). Patch clamp experiments performed on guard cell protoplasts from plants grown under low humidity showed that in abh1 guard cells, anion currents were consistently larger than those in the WT guard cells (Fig. 7C;P < 0.001). Furthermore, anion currents (n = 6) showed reduction to WT magnitudes in a complemented line (P = 0.15; data not shown). Control experiments were performed on the ABA-hypersensitive mutant,era1-2. In era1-2, no constitutive activation of guard cell anion channels was observed in the absence of exogenous ABA (n = 8, data not shown), confirming previous findings (CITATION). These data show a difference in slow anion channel regulation in the absence of exogenous ABA in abh1 (Fig. 7C) and era1, indicating different functions of these two negative regulators of ABA signaling. K+ in channel currents were substantially smaller in abh1 guard cells than in WT guard cells from plants grown at 40% humidity without addition of exogenous ABA (Fig. 7D; P < 0.001). K+ in currents (n= 6) showed recovery of WT magnitudes in a complemented line (P = 0.74). Furthermore, when plants were exposed to high (95%) humidity for 3 d, K+ in channel current magnitudes in abh1 guard cells were significantly larger (n = 17) than those in abh1 guard cells from 40% humidity-grown plants (n = 14) (P< 0.001 at −180 mV; Fig. 7E). K+ in channel currents inabh1 guard cells grown at 95% showed recovery, but remained slightly smaller than the current magnitudes of WT grown at 40% humidity (Fig. 7, D and E). Anion channel and K+ in channel activities recorded in abh1 guard cells isolated from plants grown at 40% humidity (Fig. 7, C and D) correlated with the reduced stomatal apertures and reduced gas exchange found in abh1 leaves (Fig. 7A). To further investigate genetic interactions of abh1with previously characterized early ABA signaling mutants, stomatal responses in homozygous abh1/era1-2 andabh1/abi1-1 double mutants were analyzed. In theabh1/era1-2 double mutant, stomatal closure in response to ABA was similar to the response in abh1 alone when plants were treated overnight at high humidity (Fig.8A). However, stomatal apertures of plants grown at 40% humidity were similar in abh1/era1-2and era1-2 and similar to WT (Fig. 8B).  [[FIGURE]] The complex interaction of abh1 and era1-2 was also observed for non-guard cell phenotypes. For example, the increased number of petals described in era1-2 (CITATION) compared with WT was also observed in the abh1/era1-2double mutant (data not shown), whereas the abh1 serrated leaf phenotype (Fig. 4A) was unchanged in abh1/era1-2compared with abh1. However, the delay in growth ofabh1/era1-2 was increased compared with both abh1and era1-2, suggesting additive affects in this response (data not shown). The ability to produce siliques and seeds was strongly reduced in abh1/era1-2 (data not shown). All these data stress the complexity by which abh1 andera1-2 interact in planta, suggesting that they may target distinct processes in the ABA signaling network that have differential relative importance in different tissues and depending on conditions. Furthermore, era1 is known to have pleiotropic phenotypes because it is the only farnesyl transferase β-subunit gene in Arabidopsis; therefore, many era1 phenotypes would be expected not to show an interaction with abh1. ERA1-associated mechanisms that are considered not to be linked to ABA signaling include the Wiggum flower development phenotype and farnesylation of the AP1 transcription factor (CITATION;CITATION). Stomatal apertures in response to ABA were also investigated in theabh1/abi1-1 double mutant. As shown in Figure9A, 1 μm ABA did not cause significant stomatal closure in the abh1/abi1-1double mutant, but induced stomatal closing in the WT. At 10 μm ABA, however, stomata closed in theabh1/abi1-1 double mutants, whereas they remained widely opened in abi1-1. These data showed that ABA-induced stomatal closing in the abh1/abi1-1 double mutant is more ABA sensitive than in the abi1-1 background. These data correlate with an intermediate ABA sensitivity of theabh1/abi1-1 double mutant in seed germination that lies between the abh1 and abi1-1 sensitivities (CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] However, because abh1 and abi1-1 mutants are in the Columbia and Ler backgrounds, respectively, we have also isolated a control line that carries the abi1-1 mutation in an ERECTA WT background, from F2 seeds resulting from abh1/abi1-1 crosses. The control line and its progeny showed a strong insensitivity to 10 μmABA (stomatal aperture after ABA treatment was 93% ± 7% of the maximal stomatal aperture measured with no ABA). Transgenic expression of abi1-1 in tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiano) confers strong insensitivity to ABA (CITATION), confirming that the dominant abi1-1 mutant protein functions in many backgrounds. The abh1 mutation partially suppresses this dominant abi1-1 phenotype. Stomatal apertures of abi1-1 plants, measured directly from plants grown at 40% humidity, were generally larger than those of WT plants (Ler background; Fig. 9B). Under the same conditions, stomatal apertures in the abh1/abi1-1 double mutant were similar to abi1-1 (Fig. 9B). These findings are also consistent with the hypothesis that reduced stomatal apertures inabh1 at low humidity are because of a response to low levels of endogenous ABA as the abi1-1 mutation causes ABA insensitivity to low ABA concentrations in the abi1-1/abh1double mutant (Fig. 9A). Mutations in three RNA-binding proteins have been described recently that show ABA hypersensitivity (CITATION;CITATION; CITATION). In addition to the mRNA cap binding protein ABH1 (CITATION), these genes include a double-stranded RNA-binding protein, HYL1 (CITATION) and a protein with similarity to an Sm-like snRNP protein, SAD1 (CITATION). We investigated whether the sad1 andhyl1 mutations affect stomatal movements. ABA-induced stomatal closure in the sad1 mutant showed a reproducible ABA hypersensitivity compared with the WT ecotype C24 (Fig.10). In contrast, in thehyl1 mutant, ABA-induced stomatal closure was similar to the WT ecotype Nossen in two independent lines of investigation (N. Fedoroff, personal communication; n = 3 independent experiments; data not shown).  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~!  abh1, other Arabidopsis mutants, and the corresponding WT ecotypes were grown side by side in growth chambers: 40% humidity, 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle, temperature 20°C, and photon fluency rate of 75 μmol m−2 s−1. Unless otherwise stated, WT plants are from the Columbia ecotype. When required, the growth of abh1 and WT plants was synchronized by sowing abh1 plants 1 week earlier than WT. To test the sensitivity of seeds to ABA, in the case ofabh1 lines complemented with the N-terminal GFP-ABH1 fusion, seeds were plated on minimal medium (0.25× Murashige and Skoog medium) containing 0.3 μm ABA. After 4 d at 4°C, seeds were transferred to 28°C and continuous light and germination was scored after 5 more d. Seeds used for comparative studies were from plants grown and harvested in parallel. For seedling growth assays, 6-month-old abh1 and WT seeds were germinated on Murashige and Skoog plates. Germination was scored after 2 d to make sure that all the seedlings were at the two-cotyledon stages and the root length was estimated using a micrometer under a dissecting microscope. Seeds that showed a delay in germination were removed from the plates in both WT and abh1. After 2, 6, 9, and 11 d of growth, root length was measured and the development of the shoot was studied by analyzing the appearance and development of new leaves under the microscope. To generate N- and C-terminal fusion proteins between ABH1 and GFP proteins, the full-length ABH1 cDNA was amplified using Pfu DNA polymerase (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA). Primers used for PCR included specific restriction sites at both ends, to allow the cloning of ABH1 andGFP in frame in the vector GFP-JFH1 (kindly provided by Dr. Jeff Harper, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, CA). PCR-amplified constructs were confirmed by sequencing (Retrogen, San Diego). Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58 was used to generate transgenic Arabidopsis plants using the floral dip technique (CITATION). The subcellular localization of ABH1 fused to GFP was assessed by scanning confocal laser microscopy in epidermal strips prepared as described (CITATION). Epidermal strips were mounted between two cover slips on an Axiovert 35M microscope (Zeiss, Jena, Germany) coupled to an MCr-1000 scanning laser confocal system (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Hercules, CA). Argon laser light (488-nm wavelength, 30% power) was used to excite GFP and emission light was measured at 522 nm. Transmission images were collected in parallel. Autofluorescence was monitored at 488 nm. GUS activity was assayed on either seedlings grown on Murashige and Skoog plates or soil, after 24 h of incubation in a solution containing 2 mm5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-glucuronide, 0.1m Na2HPO4 (pH 7.2), 0.1% (w/v) K+ ferrocyanide, 0.1% (w/v) ferricyanide, and 0.1% (v/v) Triton. Experiments were performed on three independent WT:ABH1-GUS lines. WT control plants showed no GUS activity (data not shown). Total RNA was extracted from flowers, leaves, stems, and roots of 5- to 6-week-old WT plants using Trizol reagent (Life Technologies/Gibco-BRL, Rockville, MD). Poly(A+) RNA was further purified using the μMACS mRNA Isolation Kit (Miltenyi Biotec, Auburn, CA) according to the manufacturer's instructions. To examine whether ABA regulates ABH1 gene expression, total RNA and poly(A+) RNA were extracted from rosette leaves of WT plants sprayed with 100 μm ABA, 4 h before extraction. Several complementary experiments were carried out using 1, 10, and 100 μm ABA for different application times. Total and poly(A+) RNA were separated in a 1.2% (w/v) denaturing agarose gel, and then transferred onto a Hybond N+ membrane (Amersham, Buckinghamshire, UK). The blots were hybridized with 32P-labeledABH1 cDNA and/or a Cor47 genomic fragment amplified by PCR using the forward and reverse primers, 5′GAT CGA AAT GGT TGA TAA GAG ATC3′ and 5′CAC ACT CTC CGA CAC TGG TAC C3′, respectively. Stomatal aperture measurements were performed as described (CITATION; CITATION). Stomata from 5- to 6-week-old plants were opened by exposing excised leaves for 2 h to white light (intensity: 125 μmol m−2 s−1), floating in a stomatal opening solution containing 5 mm KCl, 10 μm CaCl2, and 10 mm MES (pH 6.15), in the growth chamber at 20°C. Stomatal apertures were measured 2 h after ABA was added (CITATION). When experiments were performed with abh1,era1-2, sad1, andabh1/era1-2 double mutants, plants were subjected to an overnight high (95%) humidity treatment before incubation of the leaves in stomatal opening solution. Control experiments were performed in parallel with no ABA added. Leaves were then blended for 30 s and epidermal peels collected as described (CITATION). Stomatal apertures were measured (pore width/length) by focusing on the focal plane of guard cells in epidermal strips (CITATION). Stomatal responses to humidity were determined by measuring transpiration rates using a Li-6400 infrared gas analyzer (LI-COR, Inc.). Chamber temperature and carbon dioxide concentration were maintained at 23°C and 400 μL L−1, respectively. Constant illumination of 500 μmol quanta m−2s−1 photosynthetically active radiation was provided by a red and blue LED light source. Anion and K+ currents were recorded from guard cell protoplasts of 4- to 6-week-old plants (CITATION; CITATION) grown either at 40% humidity or after 72 h of high-humidity treatment (95%). The solutions used in patch clamp experiments were composed of 150 mm CsCl, 2 mmMgCl2, 6.7 mm EGTA, 3.35 mmCaCl2, and 10 mm HEPES-Tris, pH 7.1, in the pipette medium and of 30 mm CsCl, 2 mmMgCl2, 1 mm CaCl2, and 10 mm MES-Tris, pH 5.6, in the bath medium, for anion channel activity measurement (CITATION). For K+ current measurements, the pipette solution was composed of 30 mmKCl, 70 mm-Glu, 2 mm MgCl2, 6.7 mm EGTA, 3.35 mm CaCl2, 5 mm ATP, and 10 mm HEPES-Tris, pH 7.1. The bath solution contained 30 mm KCl, 40 mmCaCl2, 2 mm MgCl2, and 10 mm MES-Tris, pH 5.5 (CITATION). For all solutions, osmolarity was adjusted to 485 mmol kg−1 for bath solutions and 500 mmol kg−1 for pipette solutions by addition of d-sorbitol.
