!~ABS~! The anaphase promoting complex or cyclosome is the ubiquitin-ligase that targets destruction box-containing proteins for proteolysis during the cell cycle. Anaphase promoting complex or cyclosome and its activator (the fizzy and fizzy-related) proteins work together with ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes (UBCs) (E2s). One class of E2s (called E2-C) seems specifically involved in cyclin B1 degradation. Although it has recently been shown that mammalian E2-C is regulated at the protein level during the cell cycle, not much is known concerning the expression of these genes. Arabidopsis encodes two genes belonging to the E2-C gene family (called UBC19 andUBC20). We found that UBC19 is able to complement fission yeast (Schizosaccharomyces pombe)UbcP4-140 mutant, indicating that the plant protein can functionally replace its yeast ortholog for protein degradation during mitosis. In situ hybridization experiments were performed to study the expression of the E2-C genes in various tissues of plants. Their transcripts were always, but not exclusively, found in tissues active for cell division. Thus, the UBC19/20 E2s may have a key function during cell cycle, but may also be involved in ubiquitylation reactions occurring during differentiation and/or in differentiated cells. Finally, we showed that a translational fusion protein between UBC19 and green fluorescent protein localized both in the cytosol and the nucleus in stable transformed tobacco (Nicotiana tabacumcv Bright Yellow 2) cells.
!~RES~! The sequences of the clam E2-C (CITATION) andXenopus sp. UBC-x (CITATION) were used for Arabidopsis database searches and led to the identification of two different genes called UBC19 and UBC20, located on Arabidopsis chromosome 3 (At3g20060) and chromosome 1 (At1g50490), respectively. Both genes are expressed because their corresponding expressed sequence tags can be found in the currently available databases. The sequence of the longest expressed sequence tag forUBC19 was determined, and it encodes an 181 amino acids open reading frame which is complete at its N-terminal end as indicated by an in-frame stop codon upstream of the initiation codon. The protein sequence of UBC20 exhibits greater than 90% sequence identity to UBC19. A phylogenetic tree including all of the 37 E2s from Arabidopsis (CITATION), indicated that UBC19/20 are more closely related to the UbcP4/E2-C/UBCx/UbcH10 E2s than any other Arabidopsis E2 (Fig. 1A). Bootstrap values derived from the neighbor-joining method (CITATION) were all above 55% inside of each clade (data not shown), further supporting the evolutionary relationship between the different E2 subfamilies. Both Arabidopsis UBC19 and UBC20 amino acid sequences were aligned with human, mouse, Goldfish, Xenopus sp., clam, and fission yeast E2-C orthologs and also Brewer's yeast UBC11 (Fig. 1B). The Arabidopsis E2 sequences contain the short N-terminal extension that distinguishes this subgroup from other E2s, with the exception of yeast UBC11. The plant proteins carry even the longest N-terminal extensions (36 amino acids for UBC19, compared with the 30 amino acid extensions in mammals, Xenopus sp., and clam).  [[FIGURE]] The crystal structure of clam E2-C has recently been solved (CITATION). The authors showed that most of the residues that are specifically conserved into this E2 class of enzymes contribute rather to the protein surface, suggesting that they are at the molecular interface for protein interaction and specificity. Most of these residues are conserved in the plant E2 protein sequences (residues V31, Q36, M44, F53, D55, T65, D108, T130, G140, L148, N158, K163, and Y170; the identity and number of the residues is based on clam sequence). In E2s, the active site Cys forms a thiol-ester linkage with the C-terminal carboxyl of ubiquitin. The coding region of Arabidopsis UBC19 cDNA was cloned in the pET11d-inducible expression vector, and the enzyme was overexpressed in Escherichia coli. A mutant version of the protein, in which the catalytic Cys was replaced by a Ser residue, was also produced in E coli. Bacterial protein extracts expressing either the wild type or the mutant protein were assayed in vitro for ester formation of the recombinant polypeptides with radiolabeled-ubiquitin in the presence of Arabidopsis ubiquitin-activating enzyme E1 (UBA1; CITATION) and ATP (Fig. 2). As a control, we used purified Arabidopsis UBC7 protein. In the presence of the bacterial extracts, a radiolabeled protein complex with a size of around 36 kD could be detected (Fig. 2, lanes C and D). As expected, the complexes formed between the native UBC19 (or UBC7) and ubiquitin were sensitive to boiling under reducing conditions, indicating that the proteins are linked via a thiol-ester bond (Fig. 2, +DTT, lanes C and E). The protein complex with the mutant protein UBC19 (C/S) was resistant to boiling in the presence of DTT, most likely because of the formation of an oxygen-ester (lane D). Finally a mutant version of the protein, in which the catalytic Cys was replaced by an Ala residue, UBC19 (C/A), was unable to form a complex with ubiquitin (data not shown).  [[FIGURE]] Disruption of the fission yeast gene UbcP4 produces both a G2/M and a metaphase/anaphase cell cycle arrest (CITATION; CITATION). We tested whether the plant protein is able to rescue the fission yeast ts mutantUbcP4-140 (CITATION). For the complementation experiments, different constructs were designed (see Fig.3A): the full-length UBC19, a dominant negative version of UBC19 (C/S) and a chimeric gene, in which the N-terminal extension domain of UBC19 was replaced by the N-terminal extension domain of yeast UbcP4. The different constructs were put under the control of the thiamine-repressible promoter pnmt1 of the pREP1 expression vector and transformed into UbcP4-140cells. At nonpermissive temperature and in the absence of thiamine, both the plant E2 and the chimeric E2 allowed the growth ofUbcP4-140 mutant (Fig. 3B), whereas another Arabidopsis E2UBC9 (At4g27960) belonging to a different E2 subfamily was unable to complement the mutant strain (data not shown). Interestingly, the chimeric protein [UbcP4(Nt)/UBC19] was more efficient for the growth rescue of the yeast mutant strain than the wild-type plant E2 (data not shown), suggesting that the N-terminal extension may carry important structural information involved in the E2 function. As expected, UBC19 (C/S) worked as a dominant negative mutant protein because it inhibited the growth of UbcP4-140 mutant strain already at permissive temperature. If this strain was grown at permissive temperature but in the presence of thiamine, which represses UBC19 (C/S) expression, no growth defect was detected (data not shown).  [[FIGURE]] To investigate the expression patterns of both genes by RNA gel and in situ hybridization, we tested first the specificity and cross-reactivity of the cDNA probes. Genomic DNA from Arabidopsis and the closely related radish (Raphanus sativus cv Radis rubine scarlate) plant was digested by different restriction enzymes and hybridized with both UBC19 and UBC20 full-length cDNA probes (Fig.4). In both Arabidopsis and radish, only weak cross-reactivity of the probes was detected. Furthermore the UBC19/20 cDNA probes did not cross-react with other E2 genes, like those belonging to the Ubc4/5 gene family (data not shown).  [[FIGURE]] Both UBC19 and UBC20 mRNAs were found to accumulate in various Arabidopsis organs and in germinating seeds (Fig.5A). Expression of both genes was similar but not identical. Both UBC19 and UBC20 mRNAs accumulate in floral buds, open flowers, stems, and roots and at low levels in siliques. Nevertheless, UBC19 is expressed at higher level in mature leaves than UBC20. We also testedUBC19 gene expression under different growth conditions including heat shock, dark to light transition and drug treatments inducing a stress response (like the proteasome inhibitor MG132 or geldanamycin); none of these experimental conditions changed its expression level (data not shown).  [[FIGURE]] To study the E2 gene expression during re-initiation of mitotic activity in Arabidopsis, we used an experimental system (CITATION) in which differentiated leaf cells are stimulated to re-enter the cell cycle by wounding and auxin stimulation. BothUBC19 and UBC20 mRNAs accumulate in the leaf strips culture at the highest levels at 48 to 72 h (Fig. 5B), a time when the first cell divisions are observed (data not shown). Histone H4 mRNAs accumulate at the highest level earlier at 24 to 48 h, when most of the cells in the culture are in S phase (24 to 48 h of culture corresponding to the highest3H-dTTP incorporation; data not shown). We also followed UBC19 mRNA and protein levels during Arabidopsis cell-suspension culture (Fig. 5C). Cells rapidly entered the logarithmic growth phase and reached the stationary stage after 7 d. Both histone H4 and UBC19 mRNAs reached their highest level of accumulation from d 1 to 3 (corresponding to the time where the highest number of cell division can be observed; data not shown). A polyclonal antibody was raised in rabbits against the 20-amino acid N-terminal peptide of UBC19 and used in western-blot analysis. The UBC19 protein was only detectable during the first days of culture corresponding to the highest level of its transcript accumulation. As a control, we used an antibody raised against AtCUL1, whose gene is constitutively expressed in Arabidopsis cell suspension culture (CITATION). To analyze more precisely and identify the tissues in which the plant E2s are expressed, we performed in situ hybridization using [35S] UTP-labeled UBC19 andUBC20 anti-sense or sense probes on different sections of Arabidopsis and of its very closely related radish species (Fig.6). Radish organs are larger than Arabidopsis and were therefore used to obtain more accurate and detailed mRNA localization. In general, both UBC19 andUBC20 probes revealed almost identical expression patterns, except in root tissues (see below). Thus, in situ hybridization with the UBC20 probe is only shown when different fromUBC19.  [[FIGURE]]  UBC19/20 genes are expressed in the shoot apical meristem, leaf primordial, and young leaves (Fig. 6, A and B). Sense probes never allowed detection of a signal either with Arabidopsis or radish sections, as illustrated with the UBC19 sense probe (Fig. 6C). In stems, transcript localization of both E2s is seen in the vascular tissue (shown for UBC19 in Fig. 6D). According to the RNA gel analysis (see Fig. 5A), UBC19 is expressed at higher levels in mature leaves than UBC20 (Fig. 6, E and F).UBC19/20 genes are also expressed in the root meristem and in emerging lateral roots (Fig. 6, G and I–L). Hybridization performed with sense probes gave only weak background signals, as illustrated in Figure 6H. However, whereas UBC19 is only expressed in the vascular cylinder (Fig. 6, J, L, and M), mainly in protoxylem elements (Fig. 6, M and N), UBC20 probe allowed also the detection of a signal in differentiated root cortex, xylem, and phloem tissues (Fig. 6, P and Q). Furthermore both genes were expressed in pericycle cells in maturing roots at the xylem poles, where potentially lateral roots emerge (Fig. 6O; data not shown). Because the two E2 probes exhibit weak cross-hybridization (Fig. 4) and because the number of radish genes belonging to this E2 family is unknown, we cannot exclude that this expression pattern results from the superposition of the expression of several, still yet unknown, radishUBC19/20 homologs. To determine to what extent this E2 gene family is subjected to differential tissue-specific expression, additional experiments are required. Differential tissue-specific expression has already been reported for the Arabidopsis UBC4-6 gene family (CITATION), using promoter β-glucuronidase (GUS) fusion studies. Thus, the in situ hybridization experiments revealed that in all tissues with cell division activities, UBC19/20expression could be detected: like the shoot and root meristems, expanding vascular tissues, and leaf primordial. However, the expression of these genes is not exclusively correlated with cell proliferation, because we found also expression in differentiated cells (in mature leaves and in root cortex). For subcellular localization studies, UBC19 was translationally fused to the GFP proteins, and stable transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum cv Bright Yellow 2 [BY2]) cells, expressing the fusion protein under the control of the Dex-inducible promoter (CITATION), were established. The UBC19/GFP fusion protein, like GFP alone, was found both in the cytoplasm and the nucleus (Fig. 7, A and B). The size of the fusion protein is around 46 kD, which is close to the selective barrier (20–40 kD) of passive protein diffusion (for review, seeCITATION). To investigate whether UBC19 carries the capacity to translocate a reporter protein in the nucleus, we engineered a construct in which UBC19 was fused in frame to both GFP and GUS, increasing the size of the reporter protein to more than 100 kD. Nevertheless, this was not the case, and the UBC19/GFP/GUS fusion protein, like the GFP/GUS control protein, localized mainly to the cytoplasm (Fig. 7, C and D), indicating that UBC19 enters the nucleus only by passive diffusion.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Unless stated otherwise, all procedures for manipulating DNA and RNA were carried out according to CITATION and CITATION. Upon request, all novel materials described in this publication will be made available in a timely manner for noncommercial research purposes. Dexamethasone (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis) was dissolved in ethanol and stocked at a concentration of 30 mm. To construct the dominant negative pSK-UBC19(C/S), we mutated the Cys residue in the UBC domain, involved in thiol-ester formation with ubiquitin, by PCR, using oligonucleotide (5′-CAATATTAGCTTGGACATTCTTC-3′) and oligonucleotide (5′-CCATAGAGATCCACATTGG-3′), respectively. The three constructs for yeast complementation assays were cloned asSalI-BamHI fragments into the pREP expression vector (CITATION). These restriction sites were introduced for UBC19 and UBC19 (C/S) by PCR amplification using oligonucleotide 5′-AGGCGAGTCGACATGGCGACGGTTAATGGGTAC-3′ and oligonucleotide 5′-CAGTGATTTTGGATCCTCATGCGTTTAAAGGCT-3′. The chimeric UbcP4/UBC19 fragment has been generated with the Exsite PCR site-directed mutagenesis kit (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA) with oligonucleotide 5′-AATCTAAAAACTCTTCTTCTGCTGGCATGGCTGTTGACGGTCATAGCGTTCTAAAAAGGCTGCAATCTGAAC-3′ and oligonucleotide 5′-AGTATGAGGGTTCTGGTTTTGCATATCAGAATCCATCCTTTTTCGCCTCTTCTAATTG-3′. pTA-GFP construct is described in CITATION. The GFP sequence used in all experiments is the ultra-bright version of the [Leu 64 > Phe] and [Ser 65 > Thr] (see CITATION). A XhoI-NcoI fragment of UBC19 obtained by PCR amplification using oligonucleotide 5′-CATTAACTCGAGCCATGGCGACGGTTAATGGGTACACAG-3′ and oligonucleotide 5′-AATTAACCATGGATGCGTTTAAAGGCTTG-3′ was introduced in frame at the N terminus of GFP and resulted in plasmid pSK-UBC19-GFP. The XhoI-SpeI fragment was than subcloned into the dexamethasone-inducible vector pTA7002 (CITATION) resulting in plasmid pTA-UBC19-GFP. In the pTA-GUS-GFP construct, the GUS coding sequence was introduced in frame with the GFP sequence after PCR amplification with oligonucleotide 5′-GATCATCTCGAGACCATGGTACGTCCTGTAGAAACCCCAA-3′ and oligonucleotide 5′-ACTCATGGATCCTTGTTTGCCTCCCTGCTGCGGTTT-3′. Finally, the pTA-UBC19-GUS-GFP construct resulted from subcloning the UBC19 coding sequence from the pSK-UBC19-GFP construct into pTA-GUS-GFP vector. The PCR-amplified fragments in all cloning procedures were always sequenced on both strands. The Arabidopsis plants used for the RNA gels were of the Wassilewskija ecotype. To check UBC19 expression during the dark to light transition, Arabidopsis plants have been grown in vitro in complete darkness for 12 d, and then were transferred to standard light condition and collected after 1, 3, and 8 h. A gene encoding a photosystem II component was used as a control. For heat shock, 14-d-old Arabidopsis plants grown in vitro under standard conditions were collected and incubated in sterile water either at 38°C for the heat shock or at 22°C for the control. After 90 min of treatment, plants were incubated in sterile water at 22°C and collected 1 h later for RNA preparation. Control hybridization experiments with HSP70 and HSP105 probes, indicated a strong induction of HSP genes under our experimental conditions. Clonal transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY2 cell cultures for pTA-GFP, pTA-UBC19/GFP, pTA-GUS/GFP, and pTA-UBC19/GUS/GFP constructs were established. The Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation protocol of the BY2 cells is described by CITATION. To produce the accumulation of the GFP fusion proteins into the transgenic cell lines, 5 μm dexamethasone was added to the culture medium. The handling of the BY2 cell culture were performed according to CITATION. RNA gels were realized with 20 μg of total RNA per lane. The RNA extraction and RNA gel-blotting procedures are described by CITATION. The UBC19 and UBC20 cDNA probes correspond to the complete cDNAs clones. The histone H4 probe corresponds to the 196-bp restriction fragment AccI-DdeI of the coding region of the gene H4A748 (CITATION). The integrity and the amount of RNA applied to each lane were verified by ethidium bromide staining and control hybridizations using an Arabidopsis 25S rRNA probe (GenBank accession no. T44938). The genomic DNA was extracted according to (Qiagen USA, Valencia, CA). The UBC19 and UBC20 cDNA probes correspond to the complete cDNAs clones. The DNA gel blots were hybridized overnight at 42°C in 5× SSPE, 50% (v/v) formamide, 10% (w/v) dextran sulfate, 1% (w/v) SDS, and 50 μg mL−1 denatured salmon sperm DNA. The blots were subsequently washed in 2× SSC and 0.1% (v/v) SDS for 30 min at 42°C and in 0.2× SSC and 0.1% (v/v) SDS for 30 min at 42°C. Virtually all steps of the in situ procedure were performed essentially as described by CITATION. Radish (Raphanus sativus cv Radis rubine scarlate) and Arabidopsis (ecotype Columbia) seeds were germinated in K1 medium (CITATION), and plant material was harvested for fixation. All samples were fixed in 2.5% (v/v) glutaraldehyde, dehydrated, and paraffin embedded. Sections of 10 μm thick were fixed to 3-aminopropyltriethoxy-silane-coated slides and used during the in situ hybridization procedure. UBC19 andUBC20 probes were synthesized from PCR products flanked by T3 and T7 promoters and 20 × 106 cpm slide−1 were applied (10 ng slide−1). Exposure times varied and images were taken by using a digital Axiocam (Zeiss, Welwyn Garden City, UK) under standard dark and bright field optics.  NcoI and BamHI sites were introduced 5′ and 3′, respectively, of pSK-UBC19 and pSK-UBC19 (C/S) by PCR-based site-directed mutagenesis. The PCR reaction was performed using oligonucleotide 5 (5′-GCGAAAAACCATGGCGACGGTTAATG-3′) and oligonucleotide 2 (5′-ATTTTTGAGGATCCTCATGCGTTTAAAGGCTAG-3′) as the upstream and downstream primers, respectively. TheNcoI-BamHI fragments were cloned into the pET-11d vector (Novagen, Madison, WI) to produce recombinant proteins with an additional SHHHHHH sequence at the C terminus. Overexpression was performed in Escherichia coli strain BL21(DE3) pLysS. The recombinant His-tagged ubiquitin containing a cAMP-dependent protein kinase phosphorylation site (CITATION) was kindly provided by Dr. Zhen-Qiang Pan and was expressed in E. coli strain BL21(DE3) pLysS. The protein remained soluble and could be purified in the native form under non-denaturing conditions using the nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid agarose-based affinity purification procedures according to the protocol provided by Qiagen USA. The purified protein was further applied to a Sephadex G-25 column, equilibrated, and eluted with 50 mmNaH2PO4 (pH8), 300 mm NaCl, and 10 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride. One microgram of the ubiquitin fusion protein was radiolabeled using 5 units of cAMP-dependent protein kinase (Biolabs) and 10 μCi of [γ32P]ATP as described by CITATION. After the reaction the kinase was heat inactivated. For thioester assays, reactions were carried out in 50 mm Tris-HCl (pH 7.5), 10 mm MgCl2, 1 mm ATP, and 100 ng of32P-labeled ubiquitin at 30°C for 40 min. Unless stated otherwise, 500 ng of the purified Arabidopsis E1 enzyme UBA1 (CITATION) and 10 μg of bacterial crude protein extracts overproducing UBC19 or its mutant proteins were used in the reaction. The protein samples (in presence or absence of DTT) were subjected to electrophoresis in a 15% (w/v) SDS-polyacrylamide gel, and autoradiography was used to visualize radiolabeled bands. The Arabidopsis cells were homogenized using pestle and mortar in extraction buffer (25 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 15 mm MgCl2, 15 mm EGTA, 150 mm NaCl, 0.1% [w/v] Tween 20, 1 mmDTT, and complete protease inhibitor cocktail mix [Roche Diagnostics, Indianapolis]) with PolyClar AT (Serva, Garden City Park, NY) and quartz and centrifuged at 20,000g. The protein content was determined by using the Bio-Rad protein assay kit. Polyclonal antibodies were raised in rabbits against the N-terminal ATVNGYTGNTPAATTPAAT peptide of UBC19 protein to which an additional Cys residue at the N terminus was added for keyhole limpet hemocyanin coupling. Samples of 15 μg of proteins were separated by 15% (w/v) SDS-PAGE gels and transferred to Immobilon-P membrane (Millipore, Bedford, MA). The membranes were probed with the anti-UBC19 antibody diluted 1:3,000 (v/v). For protein loading control, we used a polyclonal antibody raised against Arabidopsis AtCUL1 protein (CITATION). The antibody was used at a dilution of 1:2,500 (v/v). The immunoreactive proteins were detected using peroxidase-conjugated goat anti-rabbit antibodies (Dianova, Hamburg, Germany) and the ECL western-blot analysis system from Amersham Biosciences AB (Uppsala). Determination of the specificity of the antibodies was performed by competition experiments (data not shown). In this case, the antibody was incubated for 3 h at room temperature without or with 0.1 μm of antigen peptide before application to the membranes. Fission yeast (Schizosaccharomyces pombe) UbcP4-140 ts mutant strain (h-ade6-M210 leu1-32 ura4-D18 ubcP4-140::ura4) established from strain HM530 (h-ade6-M210 leu1-32 ura4-D18) was kindly provided by Dr. Hiroaki Seino (Shizuoka, Japan; CITATION). For the manipulation of these strains, we used the conditions described byCITATION. Between three and six independent transformants per constructs were assayed in the complementation experiments that were repeated at least twice. The same results were obtained for the different experiments. Confocal images were obtained by a Zeiss LSM510 laser-scanning confocal microscope with argon laser excitation at 488 nm and through 505 to 550 emission filter-set and using a C-APOCHROMAT (63×1, 2-W Korr) water objective lens. The images are presented as single sections. Transmitted light reference images were taken using differential interference contrast (Nomarski) optics and argon laser illumination at 488 nm. Images were contrast enhanced using image-processing software (Photoshop, Adobe Systems Inc., Mountain View, CA).
