!~ABS~! AtAMT2 is an ammonium transporter that is only distantly related to the five members of the AtAMT1 family of high-affinity ammonium transporters in Arabidopsis. The short-lived radioactive ion13NH4 + was used to show that AtAMT2, expressed in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae), is a high-affinity transporter with a K m for ammonium of about 20 μm. Changes in external pH between 5.0 and 7.5 had little effect on the K m for ammonium, indicating that NH4 +, not NH3, is the substrate for AtAMT2. TheAtAMT2 gene was expressed in all organs of Arabidopsis and was subject to nitrogen (N) regulation, at least in roots where expression was partially repressed by high concentrations of ammonium nitrate and derepressed in the absence of external N. Although expression of AtAMT2 in shoots responded little to changes in root N status, transcript levels in leaves declined under high CO2 conditions. Transient expression of an AtAMT2-green fluorescent protein fusion protein in Arabidopsis leaf epidermal cells indicated a plasma membrane location for the AtAMT2 protein. Thus, AtAMT2 is likely to play a significant role in moving ammonium between the apoplast and symplast of cells throughout the plant. However, a dramatic reduction in the level ofAtAMT2 transcript brought about by dsRNA interference with gene expression had no obvious effect on plant growth or development, under the conditions tested.
!~RES~! Previous work showed that AtAMT2 is expressed in both roots and shoots of Arabidopsis (CITATION). To obtain more information about AtAMT2expression in different organs, northern-blot analysis was performed using total RNA isolated from stems, rosette leaves, cauline leaves, flowers, and siliques of plants grown in soil for 5 weeks. Root RNA was isolated from plants grown in axenic cultures for 19 d.AMT2 transcripts were detected in all organs examined. Transcript levels were greatest in roots, leaves, and stems, and somewhat lower in flowers and siliques (Fig.1). In addition to the full-length transcript (1.7 kb), a second shorter transcript of 1.2 kb was detected in both root and stem RNA. As the Arabidopsis genome contains no other sequences that are closely related to AtAMT2, we suspected that the shorter transcript was also derived from AtAMT2. To investigate this further, we hybridized northern blots of total RNA from roots or shoots with antisense riboprobes complementary to either the 5′ end of the AtAMT2 transcript (300 nucleotides) or its 3′ end (400 nucleotides; Fig. 2). The 3′ end probe hybridized to both a 1.7- and a 1.2-kb RNA from roots, whereas the 5′ end probe hybridized to the larger, full-lengthAMT2 transcript only. Both probes hybridized to only a single, 1.7-kb transcript from leaves. Thus, the 1.2-kb fragment in total RNA from roots appeared to lack the first (5′) 500 bp of the full-length transcript.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To determine whether AtAMT2 expression is subject to N regulation, northern-blot analysis of plants grown under different N regimes was performed. Plants were grown in axenic culture for 19 d in modified Murashige and Skoog medium containing 20.6 mm ammonium nitrate and 18.8 mm potassium nitrate, or for 16 d in this medium followed by transfer to a similar medium lacking N for 3 d. After N deprivation, plants were transferred to fresh medium supplemented with 1 mm nitrate for 30 min or 1 h, to test the influence of nitrate on AMT2expression. The amount of AtAMT2 transcript increased in roots in response to N deprivation (Fig.3), as observed before (CITATION). Addition of nitrate to N-deprived plants resulted in a slight decrease in AtAMT2 transcript levels in roots at 30 and 60 min, although levels did not fall to those observed in ammonium nitrate-grown plants. No differences in AtAMT2transcript levels were detected in shoots of plants subjected to the various treatments (Fig. 3). Once again, roots contained both 1.7 and 1.2 kb AMT2 transcripts, whereas shoots contained only the larger transcripts.  [[FIGURE]] Photorespiration results in significant ammonium production in photosynthetic tissues in C3 plants, but can be suppressed by increasing the ratio of CO2 to O2 in the atmosphere (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). To test whether AtAMT2 may play a role in recycling of photorespiratory ammonium, we performed a northern-blot analysis of plants grown in the presence of high CO2. Plants were grown in soil under ambient atmospheric conditions for 3 weeks before being transferred to high CO2 (800 μL L−1) for a further 2 weeks, whereas control plants were kept under ambient CO2 conditions (approximately 400 μL L−1) for the entire period. The high CO2 treatment resulted in a slight decline in AtAMT2 transcript level in leaves (Fig.4).  [[FIGURE]] To analyze AtAMT2 expression with greater resolution than was possible with northern blots, transgenic Arabidopsis plants were generated that expressed the GUS reporter gene (CITATION) under the control of 1.0 kb of theAtAMT2 promoter. T2 individuals of more than 20 transgenic lines were analyzed. Seedlings were grown in vitro in magenta boxes for 4 weeks in Murashige and Skoog medium (CITATION), and all organs were analyzed for GUS activity. GUS activity was detected in the vascular tissues of leaves, stems (not shown), roots, and flowers. GUS activity was also detected in root tips and in the root cortex, but not the root epidermis (Fig. 5). No GUS activity was detected in siliques.  [[FIGURE]] Initial characterization of AtAMT2 showed it to be an ammonium transporter that, unlike AtAMT1 transporters, cannot transport the ammonium analog, MA (CITATION). The inability of AtAMT2 to transport MA is unfortunate, because it precludes studies of transport kinetics using radioactive14C-MA. Thus, to determine the transport characteristics of AtAMT2, we resorted to the use of13N-ammonium, which has a half-life of only 10 min. AtAMT2 was expressed in the yeast ammonium transport mutant, YCW012, which is defective in all three of its known ammonium transporters and does not possess NADPH-dependent Glu dehydrogenase (GDH1), the principle enzyme of ammonia assimilation in yeast. Furthermore, 1 mm l-methionine sulfoximine was added to the cultures before the uptake assays to inhibit Gln synthetase activity. Yeast cells transformed with constructs expressing AtAMT2 were able to take up13N-ammonium from the external medium (Fig.6). The same was true for cells expressing the Arabidopsis transporter, AtAMT1;1, which was included as a positive control (Fig. 6). AtAMT1;1 facilitated rapid influx of13N-ammonium with an apparentK m of 22 μm at pH 6.1 (Table I). Although AtAMT2 also exhibited a high affinity for 13N-ammonium (apparent K m of 21 μm at pH 6.1), its capacity for ammonium transport was at least an order of magnitude lower than that of AtAMT1;1 at pH 5.0 and 6.1 (Fig. 6; Table I). Interestingly, the apparent V max of AtAMT2 increased with increasing external pH, whereas that of AtAMT1;1 decreased, so that at pH 7.5 the transport capacity of the two transporters appeared to be similar. The yeast mutant containing the vector pYES3 alone was unable to import13N-ammonium at either pH 5.0 or 6.1 (Fig. 6). However, significant rates of 13N-ammonium uptake were exhibited by this strain at pH 7.5, which may be attributable to the diffusion of NH3 into the cells.  [[FIGURE]] Kinetic data for 13N-ammonium uptake by AtAMT1;1 and AtAMT2 expressed in yeast Although circumstantial evidence points toward a plasma membrane location for some AMT1 family members (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), no direct evidence for this has been published. To determine the intracellular location of AtAMT2 in Arabidopsis, a translational fusion between AMT2 and the fluorescent reporter protein, green fluorescent protein (GFP) was transiently expressed in Arabidopsis leaves under the control of a double cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. To test the efficacy of this approach, a variety of positive controls were included in our experiments. The control constructs were GFP (smGFP without a leader sequence; CITATION), RbcS-GFP (pea [Pisum sativum] RbcS plastid transit peptide fused to GFP;CITATION), mGFP5 (which is targeted to the endoplasmic reticulum [ER]; CITATION), and cox-GFP (transit peptide of mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase fused to GFP). Transient expression of RbcS-GFP in epidermal cells of Arabidopsis led to accumulation of GFP in chloroplasts (Fig.7, A–C). The cox-GFP fusion protein was found in mitochondria of transformed cells, which were smaller, and clearly distinct from chloroplasts (Fig. 7D). The mGFP5 protein was observed in the ER, whereas GFP without a leader sequence was located in the cytoplasm (Fig. 7, E and F, respectively). Transient expression of the AtAMT2-GFP fusion in leaf epidermal cells invariably led to green fluorescence on the plasma membrane and the nuclear envelope (Fig. 7G). Labeling of the latter may simply reflect the fact that plasma membrane proteins are delivered via the ER, which is contiguous with the nuclear envelope. We have observed this phenomenon for other GFP fusions that are targeted to the plasma membrane (C. Sohlenkamp and M.K. Udvardi, unpublished data).  [[FIGURE]] To gain further insight into the possible physiological role(s) of AtAMT2, we used a reverse genetics approach using RNA interference (RNAi; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION;CITATION; CITATION). A binary vector containing the entire AtAMT2coding sequence (1.5 kb) and a 0.9-kb fragment from the 5′ end of the coding sequence in a head-to-tail configuration was constructed and transformed into Arabidopsis. Seeds from transformed plants were selected on Murashige and Skoog plates containing kanamycin, and resistant seedlings were transferred to soil. Four weeks after germination, rosette leaves from 40 independent lines were harvested for northern-blot analysis of AtAMT2 expression. An antisense riboprobe specific to the 3′ part (500 bp) of theAtAMT2 gene was used for hybridization. The wild-type transcript of AtAMT2 was undetectable in most of the RNAi lines (e.g. Fig. 8). Instead of the 1.7-kb transcript present in the wild type, RNAi lines exhibited an abundant 0.6-kb RNA fragment that was thought to represent the loop connecting the two complementary parts of the RNA hairpin structure (Fig. 8). This was confirmed with two other riboprobes. A sense probe identical to the loop sequence did not hybridize to the 0.6-kb band, as expected, whereas an antisense probe specific to the 5′ part of the wild-type AMT2 transcript hybridized to much smaller, apparently degraded fragments (not shown). Despite the absence of detectable AtAMT2 transcript in many of the RNAi lines, none of them exhibited aberrant growth or development under a variety of different growth conditions (data not shown).  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis ecotype C24 was grown either in soil in a phytotron with an 18-/6-h day/night cycle (120 μmol m−2s−1 light intensity) at 22°C/18°C and 75%/60% humidity, or in a tissue culture room at 22°C with continuous light (120 μmol m−2 s−1). A modified Murashige and Skoog medium was used for growing the plants in axenic culture (CITATION). RNA was isolated from leaves, roots, and flowers using Trizol reagent (Life Technologies, Rockville, MD). For the RNA isolation from stems and siliques, a detergent-based isolation method was used (CITATION). After separation of the RNA by gel electrophoresis under denaturing conditions (CITATION), the RNA was transferred to nylon membranes (Porablot NY Amp, Macherey-Nagel, Düren, Germany) and UV cross-linked to the membrane. Blots were probed with either single-strand RNA (a) or a double-stranded DNA (b) probes, as follows: (a) Nylon membranes were prehybridized for at least 1 h at 50°C and hybridized overnight at 50°C in a solution consisting of 50% (v/v) formamide, 0.25 m sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.2), 0.25 m NaCl, 1 mm EDTA, 7% (w/v) SDS, and α-32P-UTP-labeled RNA probe, which was produced by in vitro transcription from linearized plasmid containing the cDNA of interest (Epicentre Technologies, Madison, WI). Membranes were washed at room temperature for 5 min in 2× SSC, twice in PSE buffer (0.25 m sodium phosphate buffer [pH 7.2], 2% [w/v] SDS, and 1 mm EDTA), twice in PES buffer (0.04m sodium phosphate buffer [pH 7.2], 1% [w/v] SDS, and 1 mm EDTA) and three times in 2× SSC at room temperature. The filters were treated with 1 μg mL−1RNase A in 2× SSC for 15 min at room temperature before being washed in 0.1× SSC and 0.1% (w/v) SDS for 30 min at 50°C and subjected to autoradiography; or (b) Nylon membranes were prehybridized for at least 1 h at 65°C and hybridized overnight at 65°C in 250 mm sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.2) containing 7% (w/v) SDS, 1% (w/v) bovine serum albumin, and 1 mm EDTA. Radioactively labeled probe was prepared using the Rediprime kit (Amersham, Buckinghamshire, UK). After hybridization, membranes were washed at 65°C once in 2× SSC and 1% (w/v) SDS and twice in 0.2× SSC and 0.1% (w/v) SDS, then subjected to autoradiography. Yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) strain YCW011 (Δmep1 Δmep2 Δmep3 Δgdh1 MATa) was produced from strain MLY31 (CITATION), by homologous recombination of the wild-type GDH1 withGDH1::URA3, using pGDH1del (CITATION). A uracil auxotroph of strain YCW011 (strain YCW012) was produced by homologous recombination of the functionalURA3 gene (within the mutated GDH1) with a dysfunctional form of the gene produced by ApaI digestion, Klenow fill in, and religation of URA3, which generated a frame shift mutation. Strain YCW012 (Δmep1 Δmep2 Δmep3 Δgdh1 ura3 MATa) was selected on media containing 2.5 mg mL−1 5-fluoroorotic acid and 50 μg mL−1uracil, and later tested on uracil-minus medium to confirm the loss ofURA3 gene function. Yeast plasmid pYES3 (CITATION) containingAtAMT1;1 or AtAMT2 was transformed into YCW012 and selected for uracil prototrophy and subsequently the ability to complement growth under ammonium-limiting conditions (CITATION). Standard molecular methods were used throughout and yeast strains were transformed using the lithium acetate method as described by CITATION. For uptake experiments, yeast strains were grown overnight in liquid cultures at 28°C to 30°C in a uracil- and ammonia-free media containing per liter: 0.17% (w/v) yeast minimal salts without amino acids and without ammonia (DIFCO Laboratories, Detroit), 20 g of Gal, 1g of Na-Glu, 1 g of MES buffer, 1.4 g of synthetic amino acid powder lacking uracil (Sigma, St. Louis), and pH adjusted to 6.1 with NaOH. Yeast cells were harvested by centrifugation at 3,000g for 5 min and resuspended in freshly prepared media to a final A 600 of 6 to 8. To start reactions, 200 μL of cells was added to 1.5-mL Eppendorf tubes (Eppendorf Scientific, Westbury, NY) containing a fixed amount of 13N-ammonium and a variable amount of14NH4Cl to give a final ammonium concentration between 10 and 300 μm. After mixing, 200 μL of cells was loaded above a silicon oil layer (100 μL of 3:1 [w/v] AR20:AR200, Fluka, Milwaukee, WI) in a thin-walled 400-μL polyethylene tube (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA), and reactions were terminated at the appropriate times by centrifugation at 14,000 rpm for 5 s (Beckman MicrofugeE, Beckman Instruments, Fullerton, CA). The cell pellet was then cut from the end of the tube and immediately measured in a gamma counter (Wallac 1480 Wizard 3, PerkinElmer Wallac, Gaithersburg, MD). Uptake was considered stopped at the commencement of centrifugation and the fastest reaction times were typically 8 s. All uptake measurements were independent replicates and were typically repeated three to five times with different batches of cells. In Figure 6, the error bars represent 95% confidence intervals and linear regressions were performed using SigmaPlot software (SPSS, Inc., Chicago). The short-lived radioisotope 13N was produced by proton irradiation of water according to the 16O (p,α)13N reaction (CITATION). The cyclotron of Forschungszentrum Jülich GmbH (Japanese Steel BC 1710, Jülich, Germany) provides a 15-μA proton beam. The irradiation procedure generates primarily13NO3 − and only traces of13NH4 + (CITATION). For the chemical conversion of NO3 − to ammonia and online clean up of the ammonia generated, a special apparatus was designed to handle small amounts (2–5 mL) of the radioactive solutions. The process was initiated by reduction of 13NO3 −using Devarda's alloy under alkaline conditions (in a modification ofCITATION). The13NH3 produced was flushed by a stream of N2 gas into a trap containing a solution of 0.01n H2SO4, adjacent to a radiation detector. The 13N-ammonia-labeled trapping solution was finally adjusted to pH 5. The purity of each sample was checked by gamma spectroscopy and measurements of the gamma emission decay times. Thus, 13N decay (half-life of 9.97 min) can be readily distinguished from the possible contaminant 18F (half-life of 109.7 min). One kilobase pair of sequence upstream (5′) of the start codon of AtAMT2 was PCR amplified using primers that introduced PstI (oAMT2P1, 5′-ACG TCT GCA GAA CAT GAA TCT TAT TGA ATC TCT AA-3′) and SmaI (oAMT2P2, 5′-ACG TCC CGG GTT TGT TAT TCT ATC TTT CCC GGA g-3′) restriction sites into the product. The product was digested with PstI andSmaI and cloned into pUC19 (CITATION). After sequence verification, the promoter was subcloned as a PstI/SmaI fragment upstream (5′) of the GUS reporter gene in the binary vector pCAMBIA 1381Z. Arabidopsis C24 plants (T0) were transformed using a floral dip method (CITATION) and seeds were selected on Murashige and Skoog medium with 1% (w/v) Suc containing 20 μg mL−1 hygromycin A. About 20 T1 transgenic seedlings were grown to maturity in soil and T2 seeds were harvested. T2 plants were then grown in vitro for 4 weeks in magenta boxes on Murashige and Skoog medium. Plants were harvested and the different organs were assayed for GUS activity. Plant organs were transferred to wells of microtiter plates filled with GUS buffer (50 mm sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.2), 10 mm EDTA, 0.1% (w/v) Triton X-100, 0.1% (w/v) Tween 20, 210 mg L−1K4Fe(CN)6.3H2O, 166 mg L−1 K3Fe(CN)6, and 0.5 mg mL−1 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-glucuronic acid), vacuum infiltrated, and then incubated in the dark at 37°C for several hours to overnight. Tissue was then destained in 70% (v/v) ethanol. Using the primers oAMT2;1gfp1 (5′-AGC TCG AGA TGG CCG GAG CTT ACG ATC C-3′) and oAMT2;1gfp2 (5′-AGA CTA GTA CTA GAA CAA TGG TGA CAC CTC-3′), the first 1,200 bp of the coding sequence ofAtAMT2 (AF182039) was amplified using PfuDNA polymerase (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA), then digested with the restriction enzymes cutting at the incorporated sites (XhoI and SalI). The DNA fragment was cloned into the respective restriction sites of the vector pA7-GFP to form a translational fusion between the N terminal of AtAMT2 and GFP. Vectors were then sequenced to confirm the identity of the constructs. pA7-GFP is a pUC19 derivative with the GFP containing cassette from the binary vector pJH-GFP (J. Harper, personal communication). Microprojectile bombardment of Arabidopsis C24 leaves was performed with a Bio-Rad PDS-1000, as previously described (CITATION). Imaging of GFP and chlorophyll fluorescence was performed using a confocal scanner TCS SPII together with a DM IRBE microscope (Leica, Heidelberg) 24 to 48 h after bombardment. GFP and chlorophyll were excited with light of wavelength 488 nm. The pBluescript SK− vector containing full-lengthAMT2 cDNA (CITATION) was digested with XbaI/BamHI and theAMT2 fragment was subcloned in sense orientation into the binary vector pGPTVkan-35S (CITATION) downstream of the CaMV35S promoter to produce pbinAMT2s. Nine hundred base pairs of the 5′ end of theAMT2 cDNA was amplified with primer1 introducing aKpnI site (5′-TGG CCG GAG CTC ACG ATC CAA GCT TGC-3′) and primer2 (5′-ACG TGG TAC CAT GCC TTG AAT TGC TCC-3′). The PCR product was digested with KpnI and EcoRI and cloned into pUC19 (pUC19-AMT2as), before being subcloned into theKpnI and EcoRI sites of pbinAMT2s. The resulting binary vector, pbinAMT2sas, contained the 900-bp fragment downstream (3′) of, and in antisense orientation to, the full-lengthAtAMT2 cDNA. Arabidopsis ecotype C24 was transformed with this construct using a floral dip method (CITATION). Transgenic (T1) plants were selected on Murashige and Skoog medium containing 50 μg mL−1kanamycin before being transferred to soil. Leaves of 4-week-old plants were harvested for RNA analysis. Plants were also monitored daily to detect any aberrant growth or development phenotypes.
