!~ABS~! Exchange factors for ARF GTPases (ARF-GEFs) regulate vesicle trafficking in a variety of organisms. The Arabidopsis protein GNOM is a brefeldin A (BFA) sensitive ARF-GEF that is required for the proper polar localization of PIN1, a candidate transporter of the plant hormone auxin. Mutations in GNOM lead to developmental defects that resemble those caused by interfering with auxin transport. Both PIN1 localization and auxin transport are also sensitive to BFA. In this paper, we show that GNOM localizes to endosomes and is required for their structural integrity. We engineered a BFA-resistant version of GNOM. In plants harboring this fully functional GNOM variant, PIN1 localization and auxin transport are no longer sensitive to BFA, while trafficking of other proteins is still affected by the drug. Our results demonstrate that GNOM is required for the recycling of auxin transport components and suggest that ARF-GEFs regulate specific endosomal trafficking pathways.
!~RES~! Brefeldin A (BFA) inhibits activation of ARF proteins by binding to an ARF-GDP/ARF-GEF complex CITATION . Naturally occurring BFA-resistant or BFA-sensitive ARF-GEF variants differ in a number of amino acid residues consistently conserved in the exchange domain. Some of these residues were shown to be critical for BFA resistance of yeast and mammalian ARF-GEFs CITATION . Exchanging those residues renders BFA-resistant ARF-GEFs sensitive and vice versa, both in biochemical assays and in vivo CITATION . We reasoned that if the BFA-sensitive GNOM ARF-GEF of Arabidopsis was also rendered BFA-resistant by introducing homologous amino acid exchanges into its catalytic domain, we could determine which BFA-sensitive trafficking pathways are specifically regulated by GNOM. A 7.5 kb genomic fragment of the GNOM gene containing 2.1 kb upstream of the ATG and about 0.6 kb downstream of the stop codon complemented the gnom mutant phenotype (data not shown). This fragment was used to insert coding sequences for a 3× myc tag or GFP at the 3′ end of the open reading frame CITATION . A BFA-resistant variant was derived from the myc-tagged construct by introducing an M to L mutation at amino acid position 696 in the Sec7 domain CITATION . We chose this mutation amongst a number of possible ones because it was shown to confer good, albeit not complete, BFA resistance to yeast Gea1p without affecting its ability to complement the gea1 knockout CITATION . Furthermore, the closest homolog of GNOM, GNOM-LIKE 1 (GNL1), carries L instead of M at this position CITATION , suggesting that an M to L mutation will not interfere with the exchange activity of plant ARF-GEFs. The three constructs GN M696L -myc, GN wt -myc, and GN-GFP were transformed into segregating populations of gnom heterozygous Arabidopsis plants. For each construct, gnom mutant plants from several independent lines were shown to be rescued. Thus, GN M696L -myc, GN wt -myc, and GN-GFP fusion proteins appeared to be fully functional variants of the GNOM protein. Root tips of GNOM wt -myc seedlings displayed polar localization of PIN1, which strongly accumulated in internal compartments upon BFA treatment for 60 min CITATION , as previously described for wild-type CITATION . By contrast, root tips of GNOM M696L -myc seedlings showed nearly complete resistance to BFA-induced intracellular accumulation, with no or only very few intracellular patches visible after 60 min CITATION . Immunolocalization of untreated GN wt -myc seedlings with monoclonal myc-antibody revealed strong cytosolic “background” staining and a number of small intracellular patches CITATION . Upon BFA treatment, cytosolic GN wt -myc signal was decreased, with a concomitant strong increase in apparent membrane signal that coalesced into large perinuclear aggregates CITATION . These observations were consistent with earlier differential centrifugation experiments of cell extracts, which gave a predominantly cytosolic and a minor membrane-bound form of GNOM, with the latter increasing upon BFA treatment CITATION . We sometimes also observed a weak plasma membrane label appearing upon BFA treatment, which was not observed in untreated tissue CITATION . Neither the increase in membrane label nor aggregation into patches was seen for the GN M696L -myc protein, illustrating its BFA resistance CITATION . In untreated roots of GN wt -myc seedlings, no colocalization of GNOM and PIN1 was observed CITATION . However , double labeling of GN wt -myc after BFA treatment revealed a complete colocalization of PIN1 and GNOM in perinuclear aggregates CITATION , previously described as “BFA compartments” CITATION . Double labeling of GNOM and PIN1 in GN M696L -myc lines after BFA treatment revealed no colocalization of the two proteins, with GNOM remaining mainly cytosolic and PIN1 staying at the plasma membrane CITATION . The BFA insensitivity of PIN1 accumulation at the plasma membrane in GN M696L -myc lines, together with the colocalization of PIN1 and BFA-sensitive GNOM to the same endomembranes after BFA treatment, strongly suggests that GNOM ARF-GEF is responsible for recycling PIN1 through an intracellular compartment. To identify the intracellular site of GNOM action, we performed double-labeling experiments of GNOM with available markers for endomembrane compartments. Although a number of specific antibodies are available for plants, very few have been shown to function in confocal microscopy imaging of Arabidopsis seedling root tips. The AtSEC12 antiserum detects an ER resident, transmembrane protein CITATION . This antiserum labeled membrane compartments resembling previous descriptions of ER membranes CITATION . GN wt -myc did not colocalize with AtSEC12 CITATION . Upon BFA treatment, the ER network appeared unchanged, and the AtSEC12 signal did not colocalize with the GNOM-labeled patches CITATION . Thus, GNOM-positive membranes were different from the ER network. ARF GTPases recruit COPI coats as well as clathrin coats to membranes for vesicle budding ( CITATION , and references therein). Whereas COPI coats mediate intra-Golgi transport and recycling to the ER, clathrin coats have been implicated in the formation of endocytic vesicles and vesicle budding from the trans-Golgi network (for review, see CITATION ). An early observation regarding BFA action was the inhibition of COPI recruitment to membranes CITATION . A similar effect on the γ-COP subunit has recently been described in tobacco BY-2 cells CITATION . We reasoned that if GNOM were involved in the recruitment of COPI coats, γCOP and GNOM should colocalize and γ-COP localization should become BFA resistant in GN M696L -myc roots. In untreated cells, γ-COP appeared to be associated with Golgi stacks, as judged from the number, size, and characteristic shape of the signal CITATION , which is consistent with previous descriptions of γ-COP label in tobacco CITATION . However, upon BFA treatment, the reported abolishment of γ-COP membrane association was not observed in our system. Instead, γ-COP stayed at the membrane, but the individual Golgi stacks aggregated into larger clusters, without completely losing their integrity CITATION . Such discrepancies have previously been reported between different mammalian cell lines CITATION . GN wt -myc did not appear to colocalize with γ-COP in untreated cells CITATION . Upon BFA-treatment, γ-COP-labeled clusters surrounded a GNOM-positive central patch, without showing any obvious colocalization CITATION . In BFA-resistant GNOM lines, γ-COP label still aggregated to enclose a “core” which, however, was GNOM negative CITATION . Thus, γ-COP and GNOM did not colocalize nor did γ-COP compartments become resistant in BFA-resistant GNOM lines. We conclude that GNOM does not regulate budding of Golgi-associated, COPI-coated vesicles. The trans-Golgi network (TGN) can be viewed as the station of the secretory pathway at which COPI-dependent membrane trafficking is taken over by non-COPI coats, such as clathrin CITATION . Antibodies raised against TGN-localized AtTLG2a (SYP41) CITATION showed strong staining of elongated, often sickle-shaped structures CITATION that appeared to be different from structures labeled with Golgi stack markers CITATION . Again, no colocalization was observed between TLG2a and GN wt -myc CITATION . In contrast to GNOM, TLG2a label did not change upon treatment with BFA, even when high doses were applied for prolonged time periods, and GN wt -myc did not colocalize with TLG2a CITATION . We conclude that GNOM-positive endomembranes are also different from the TGN and that GNOM probably does not act along the secretory pathway. The fluorescent styryl dye FM4-64 is used as an endocytic tracer in yeast and mammalian cells. It fluoresces upon insertion into the plasma membrane and is taken up by the cell exclusively through membrane trafficking in yeast CITATION . This eventually leads to labeling of all the compartments along the endocytic pathway down to the vacuole. Recently, there have been a number of reports about the use of FM dyes as endocytic markers in plants CITATION . Because FM4-64 can only be used for labeling of live cells, we performed double labeling with GN-GFP CITATION . Although weak, GN-GFP labeling of live cells resembled GN-myc immunofluorescence labeling of fixed cells ( CITATION ; compare with CITATION ). Upon uptake of FM4-64 for 30 min, GNOM-GFP appeared to be closely associated, and partially overlapping with, the dye-labeled compartments CITATION . In the presence of BFA, FM4-64 accumulated in larger patches and, in this case, GN-GFP completely colocalized with the FM4-64 label to those patches CITATION . At this time point, vacuoles were not yet labeled by FM4-64. These data strongly suggest that GNOM acts at an endosomal compartment that partially overlaps with, but is not entirely identical to, the FM4-64-labeled compartment. If GNOM acts at an endosomal compartment, gnom mutant cells might show some abnormality in endosomal structure or function. To test this idea, gnom mutant cell cultures were established and transfected with ARA7-GFP constructs for transient expression. By sequence similarity, ARA7 is a member of the Rab5 family of endosomal Rab GTPases CITATION . ARA7 was shown to localize to structures very similar to GNOM-positive compartments and to also colocalize with compartments of early FM4-64 accumulation ( CITATION , and T.U. and A.N., unpublished data). Upon transient expression in cultured cells, ARA7-positive compartments appeared as larger patches in gnom than in wild-type cells CITATION . In addition, ARA7 compartments were often ring shaped, which was only rarely observed in wild-type cells. Similar alterations of ARA7 compartments were observed when treating wild-type cell cultures with BFA (T.U. and A.N., unpublished data). These observations support the subcellular localization data and strongly suggest that GNOM ARF-GEF plays a role in regulating endosome structure and function. BFA has been shown to induce intracellular accumulation of PIN1 and to alter the distribution of other plasma membrane localized proteins, including KNOLLE (SYP111), AtSNAP-33, PM-ATPase, the auxin influx carrier AUX1, the PIN1 homolog PIN3, or even cell-wall components such as pectins CITATION . To examine whether GNOM is specifically involved in PIN1 trafficking, we analyzed the effects of BFA treatment on the localization of KNOLLE, PMATPase, and the PIN1 homolog PIN2 in our lines. The cytokinesis-specific KNOLLE syntaxin localizes to intracellular patches and the newly forming cell plate, destined to become a new plasma membrane CITATION . Upon BFA treatment, KNOLLE coalesced into large patches, similar to the described BFA compartments ( CITATION ; CITATION ). BFA-induced accumulation was also observed for PM-ATPase and PIN2 ( CITATION , respectively). GNOM colocalized with all three proteins upon BFA treatment (data not shown). However, in the GN M696L -myc line, KNOLLE aggregation into large patches still occurred CITATION , suggesting that KNOLLE trafficking in cytokinetic cells is dependent on other BFA-sensitive GEFs. For PM-ATPase and PIN2 localization, the situation was more complex. First of all, not all PM-ATPase or PIN2-labeled cells responded to BFA, and the variability between individual roots was higher than in the case of PIN1. This might be due to differences in recycling rates or transport routes used between individual cells and roots. When comparing effects of BFA in GN M696L -myc lines, a similar variability was observed, ranging from almost complete to very weak increases in resistance compared to GNOM wt -myc lines. In order to determine if there is a significant partial resistance despite strong variability, we counted several thousand cells from z axis scans of a number of root tips. This revealed a partial BFA-resistance of PIN2 and PMATPase in BFA-resistant lines CITATION . Thus, GNOM action does not mediate trafficking of all plasma membrane proteins to the same extent. The observation that cycling of PIN proteins became BFA-resistant in GN M696L -myc lines led us to investigate if this would be reflected in BFA insensitivity of polar auxin transport. Reliable measurements of polar transport in Arabidopsis can be done on inflorescence stems. Exposing the upper end of inflorescence stems of GN wt -myc lines to a pulse of radioactively labeled auxin led to a peak of radioactive auxin at a distance of about 13 mm after 90 min of transport. Upon concomitant BFA treatment, this peak was nearly abolished ( CITATION , left). By contrast, GN M696L -myc lines showed no difference of auxin peak intensity with or without BFA treatment ( CITATION , right). Thus, BFA-resistant GNOM confers BFA-resistance of both PIN1 cycling and polar auxin transport activity in planta. High concentrations of BFA lead to growth arrest of cells, probably due to the severe block of intracellular trafficking, which inhibits fundamental processes such as cell-plate expansion during cytokinesis CITATION . In contrast, low concentrations of BFA have surprisingly specific effects on auxin transport-related processes such as root hair cell polarity, gravitropism, or initiation of lateral root primordia CITATION . We tested whether GNOM is the ARF-GEF responsible for the inhibition of these processes by BFA. We exposed seedlings to a change in gravity vector and recorded their realignment after 36 hr. Treatment with 5 μM BFA strongly interfered with the gravitropic response of GN wt -myc lines CITATION . GN M696L -myc seedlings, in contrast, showed absolutely no difference in their gravitropic response in the absence or presence of BFA CITATION . The same was true for lateral root formation. Treatment with 10 μM BFA led to complete inhibition of lateral root initiation in BFA-sensitive lines whereas, resistant lines showed no decrease in the number of lateral roots formed CITATION . Additionally, this concentration of BFA significantly reduced primary root elongation, which was also less affected in BFA-resistant GNOM lines CITATION . Thus, the sole alteration of GNOM ARF-GEF rendered auxin-related developmental processes insensitive to inhibition by low concentrations of BFA.
!~MM~! Plants on soil or plates were grown in growth chambers under long day conditions at 21°C. An Avr II site was introduced at the 3′ end of the GNOM-ORF in the GNOM cDNA Vector c96 CITATION by primer-extension PCR CITATION . A 3× myc tag or GFP tag was synthesized by oligonucleotide hybridization (myc) or PCR from pSMGFP vector (U70495) and inserted into this site. A Bpu 10I, Pac I fragment encompassing the myc-tag or GFP-tag was then transferred into the complementing 7,5 GNOM genomic fragment ( Col ecotype) in pBluescript. The resulting pBlue-GN Xba I-myc was further modified by introducing a fragment containing the mutagenised Sec7-domain encoding region. Site-directed mutagenesis of the Sec7 domain was done in c96 through primer-extension PCR, introducing an ATG (M) to CTG (L) change into the GNOM ORF, and the mutated region was transferred to pBlue-GN Xba I-myc as an Msc I- Bpu 10I fragment. All PCR-derived fragments were sequenced. The resulting GNXbaI M696L -myc, GNXbaI wt -myc and GNXbaI-GFP genomic fragments were then transferred as Xba I restricted fragments into pBAR A (AJ251013) and transformed into plants of a gnom heterozygous population (F2 population of emb30-1 Col /wt Ler F1 hybrids). Complementation analysis was done by PCR screening of T1 plants using a Ler/Col polymorphism in the GNOM coding region CITATION . Mutant complementation by the constructs was then confirmed by segregation analysis of seedling phenotypes of homozygous and heterozygous gnom mutant lines in the F2. In order to exclude effects in transgenic plants that are not linked to the introduced GNOM locus itself, but to differences in the lines or the genetic background of the hybrids used for transformation, we always compared independent BFA-resistant transgenic lines to independent sensitive ones. Immunofluorescence preparations and confocal microscopy were done as described CITATION . Antibodies and dilutions used were: anti-PIN1 (1:200) and anti-PIN2 (1:600), both kindly provided by K. Palme; anti-KNOLLE (1:4000), 9E10 anti-myc (1:600) (SantaCruz), anti-TLG2a (1:200) (Rosebiotech), anti-AtSec12 (1:50) (Rosebiotech), and anti-AtγCOP (1:1000), kindly provided by D.G. Robinson; and anti-PM-ATPase (1:1000), kindly provided by W. Michalke. BFA incubation of seedlings for immunofluorescence labeling was done in cell-culture dishes containing 1 ml basal medium (BM) (0.5 MS, 1% sucrose [pH 5.8]) and the indicated concentration of BFA (BFA stock solution was 50 mM). Control treatments contained equal amounts of BFA solvent (DMSO/ethanol 1:1). BFA treatments for growth assays were done by transferring seedlings germinated on BM plates onto BFA-containing plates. BFA plates were stored at 4°C for no longer than 2–3 days before use. Transient expression of GFP-ARA7 in protoplasts of cultured cells were done as described CITATION , except that suspension cultured cells were incubated in enzyme solution for 2 hr at 30°C and then passed through the nylon mesh twice (125 μm pore at first and then 40 μm pore). Polar auxin transport was measured in inflorescence axes of transgenic Arabidopsis plants as described CITATION , with the following modifications. A concentration of 2 μM IAA were used for all incubations. BFA treatment was done by immersion for 30 min in a solution containing IAA and either 20 μM BFA or the same volume of DMSO (0.05% v/v). The specific activity of [ 3 H]IAA used was 962 TBq mole −1 . Gravitropic growth was assessed by marking the gravity vector on plates. Pictures of plates were taken and angles measured from digital images with Adobe Illustrator. Lateral root formation was assessed by inspecting the primary root under a binocular for lateral root primordia. In the case of absence of visible primordia, chloral hydrate-cleared preparations of roots were also inspected microscopically for absence of pericycle divisions, indicative of early stages of lateral root development, not visible in the binocular.
