!~ABS~! Plant cells contain several types of vacuoles with specialized functions. Although the biogenesis of these organelles is well understood at the morphological level, the machinery involved in plant vacuole formation is largely unknown. We have recently identified an Arabidopsis mutant, vcl1, that is deficient in vacuolar formation. VCL1 is homologous to a protein that regulates membrane fusion at the tonoplast in yeast. On the basis of these observations, VCL1 is predicted to play a direct role in vacuolar biogenesis and vesicular trafficking to the vacuole in plants. In this work, we show that VCL1 forms a complex with AtVPS11 and AtVPS33 in vivo. These two proteins are homologues of proteins that have a well-characterized role in membrane fusion at the tonoplast in yeast. VCL1, AtVPS11, and AtVPS33 are membrane-associated and cofractionate with tonoplast and denser endomembrane markers in subcellular fractionation experiments. Consistent with this, VCL1, AtVPS11, and AtVPS33 are found on the tonoplast and the prevacuolar compartment (PVC) by immunoelectron microscopy. We also show that a VCL1-containing complex includes SYP2-type syntaxins and is most likely involved in membrane fusion on both the PVC and tonoplast in vivo. VCL1, AtVPS11, and AtVPS33 are the first components of the vacuolar biogenesis machinery to be identified in plants.
!~RES~! In yeast, Vps16p forms the C–Vps complex, including Vps33p, a protein from the Sec1p family. On the basis of the homology between Vps16p and VCL1, an Arabidopsis Sec1p homologue is probably found in a similar complex with VCL1. Six genes are annotated as members of the Sec1p family of proteins in the Arabidopsis genome. On the basis of sequence analysis, these Arabidopsis genes can be classified into four groups. The Arabidopsis genes belonging to each group are more closely related to a yeast homologue from this family (Sec1p, Vps33p, Sly1p, or Vps45p) than to other Arabidopsis paralogues (CITATION). By this criterion, a single gene homologue of Vps33p (At3g54860) can be found in Arabidopsis. Because of sequence information and functional homology, we renamed this geneAtVPS33. We have obtained the complete cDNA corresponding to the AtVPS33 gene by RT-PCR on root tissue. The cDNA sequence was deposited in the GenBank database (accession number AF357527). TheAtVPS33 cDNA differs substantially from the cDNA predicted from the genomic sequence in the Arabidopsis database and contains a 592–amino acid open reading frame. We have also identified a single-gene homologue of Vps11p in the Arabidopsis genome (At2g05170). The full-length cDNA was acquired from an EST clone ( AV529217). The gene is named AtVPS11 and contains a 932–amino acid open reading frame. Both AtVPS11 and AtVPS33 show higher sequence identity to the homologues from Mus musculus and Homo sapiens than to the yeast Vps11p and Vps33p proteins, respectively (Figure 1).[[FIGURE]] To study AtVPS11 and AtVPS33 in more detail, we raised antibodies in rabbits against protein fragments expressed as His fusions in Escherichia coli. The crude sera were affinity-purified and used for all subsequent experiments. We investigated the expression pattern of VCL1, AtVPS11, and AtVPS33 in different tissues by Western blot analysis (Figure2). The proteins were ubiquitously expressed in all tissues analyzed, although a higher expression was observed in roots, a pattern similar to that of other Arabidopsis genes involved in vesicular trafficking, such as AtVPS45 (CITATION), SYP21 (CITATION), and SYP51, SYP61, and SYP71 (CITATION).[[FIGURE]] VCL1, AtVPS11, and AtVPS33 proteins contain no hydrophobic stretches that may function as signal peptides or transmembrane domains, or sequences that resemble transit peptides for transport into plastids or nuclear localization signals. Therefore, they are predicted to be cytosolic proteins. Many cytosolic proteins involved in vesicle trafficking associate with membranes to perform their function. We analyzed the presence of these proteins in soluble and membrane fractions from Arabidopsis cell cultures by differential centrifugation experiments. As shown in Figure 3A, VCL1, AtVPS11, and AtVPS33 were present entirely in the microsomal fractions, similar to known microsomal proteins like SYP21 (PVC) and AtVPS45 (trans-Golgi network, TGN).[[FIGURE]] VCL1, AtVPS11, and AtVPS33 were solubilized from the membranes by urea, NaCl, and under alkaline conditions but to varying extents. The extraction efficiency resembles the solubilization of the previously described peripheral membrane protein AtVPS45 (CITATION), unlike the integral membrane protein SYP21, which is solubilized only with detergent (Figure 3B). Thus, VCL1, AtVPS11, and AtVPS33 are unlikely to be integral membrane proteins. Lacking detectable transmembrane domains, they appear to be peripherally associated with membranes, probably by interacting with other membrane-anchored proteins. To discern the subcellular localization of VCL1, AtVPS11, and AtVPS33, we fractionated microsomes from Arabidopsis in linear sucrose density gradients, and their distribution in the gradient was compared with previously characterized markers of different compartments of the Arabidopsis endomembrane system (Figure 4A). The vacuolar markers γ-TIP and AtALEU fractionate at the top of the gradient, whereas markers from other compartments, such as AtVPS45 and SYP41 (TGN) (CITATION), AtSEC12 (endoplasmic reticulum, ER) (CITATION), SYP21 (PVC) (CITATION) and KNOLLE/SYP111 (cell plate) (CITATION), are present in denser fractions. VCL1, AtVPS11, and AtVPS33 were present at the top of the gradient together with AtALEU and γ-TIP. In addition, they were also present in denser fractions together with AtVPS45, SYP21, and SYP41. These results indicate that VCL1, AtVPS11, and AtVPS33 associate with the tonoplast membrane as well as with some denser compartments.[[FIGURE]] To confirm the observed cofractionation of VCL1, AtVPS11, and AtVPS33 with vacuolar markers, we isolated vacuoles from Arabidopsis cell cultures as previously described (CITATION). The fractions enriched in vacuoles were selected under the microscope by staining with neutral red (data not shown). We examined the presence of different markers of the endomembrane system in the vacuolar fractions. As expected, the vacuolar markers AtALEU and γ-TIP were enriched in the vacuolar fractions (Figure 4B), but neither AtVPS45 (TGN), SYP21 (PVC), nor AtSEC12 (ER) were present at detectable levels in the vacuole-enriched fractions, indicating that they were not contaminated with those endomembranes. The vacuole-enriched fractions contained a significant amount of VCL1, AtVPS11, AtVPS33, and SYP22 (Figure 4B), indicating that these proteins were associated with the tonoplast membrane. SYP22 was previously localized to the PVC (CITATION), but it may also be found on the tonoplast in the apical meristem (CITATION). However, the enrichment factor was not as high as in the case of γ-TIP or AtALEU. The previously described localization of SYP22 strongly suggests that SYP22 may be associated with two membrane populations: the PVC and probably the tonoplast. To further determine the localization of AtVPS33, AtVPS11, and VCL1, we performed immunogold electron microscopy on Arabidopsis roots. Double-immunolabeling with AtVPS11 and AtVPS33 antisera showed that both colocalized extensively. The colocalization was found consistently over the tonoplast and a dense membrane structure, probably the PVC (Figure 5A). However, not all vacuoles were equally labeled (Figure 5A, top left corner, and 5B). The anti-VCL1 antibodies proved to be unsuitable for immunoelectron microscopy (data not shown). Thus, we decided to use transgenic Arabidopsis plants that express a VCL1-GFP fusion protein. Using the GFP monoclonal antibodies, we were able to show that VCL1 labeling was associated with the tonoplast and the same dense compartments (Figure 5C), consistent with the localization of AtVPS11 and AtVPS33. Tonoplast localization of VCL1 in purified vacuoles and in plants expressing a VCL1-GFP fusion protein allowed us to conclude that VCL1 localization was not altered in transgenic Arabidopsis plants. To decide unambiguously whether the dense subcellular structure labeled with VCL1, AtVPS11, and AtVPS33 proteins is the PVC, we performed colocalization of AtVPS33 and T7-tagged SYP22 in transgenic Arabidopsis expressing T7-SYP22 (CITATION). It was previously shown that localization of T7-tagged SYP2-type syntaxins to the PVC is not affected in the transgenic Arabidopsis plants (CITATION). Using T7 monoclonal antibodies and affinity-purified AtVPS33 antibodies, we confirmed that the AtC–VPS complex was localized to the PVC (Figure 5D). Interestingly, although SYP22 was previously localized to the tonoplast in the apical meristem by immunoelectron microscopy (CITATION), no labeling of the tonoplast was detected by use of either SYP22 or T7 antibodies in plants expressing T7-SYP22 (CITATION).[[FIGURE]] In yeast, Vps11p, Vps16p, and Vps33p form part of a multiprotein complex called the C–Vps complex (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We investigated whether the VCL1, AtVPS11, and AtVPS33 proteins assemble into a complex in Arabidopsis. We used the VCL1 antibodies to immunoprecipitate VCL1-interacting proteins from detergent extracts of Arabidopsis microsomes. We studied the presence of candidate proteins in the VCL1-immunoprecipitated fraction by immunoblotting. As shown in Figure 6A, VCL1, AtVPS11, and AtVPS33 were coimmunoprecipitated with the VCL1 antibody, indicating that they interact in Arabidopsis, forming the AtC–VPS complex.[[FIGURE]] The C–Vps complex in yeast interacts with the Vam3p syntaxin, facilitating its assembly into a trans-SNARE complex, and promotes membrane fusion. The closest homologues of Vam3p in Arabidopsis are SYP2-type syntaxins (CITATION). We analyzed whether the AtC–VPS complex interacts with SYP2-type syntaxins and/or other syntaxins from Arabidopsis (SYPs). No interaction of SYP21 (PVC, CITATION), SYP22 (vacuole, CITATION; PVC, CITATION), SYP41 (TGN, CITATION), SYP51 and SYP61 (TGN/PVC, CITATION), or KNOLLE/SYP111 (cell plate, CITATION) with AtC-VPS proteins was observed when VCL1 antibodies or AtVPS33 antibodies were used for the immunoprecipitation (Figure 6A or data not shown). To avoid the possibility that our assay is not sensitive enough to detect the interactions, we decided to analyze the complex formation in transgenic Arabidopsis plants that overexpress epitope-tagged T7-SYP21 and T7-SYP22 (CITATION), the most likely candidate SNAREs. The localization of both T7-tagged SYP2-type syntaxins is not altered in these transgenic plants, as was shown previously (CITATION). The use of highly sensitive T7 antibodies further facilitated the detection of SYP2-type syntaxins in eluates. Using VCL1 antiserum, we were able to precipitate both T7-SYP21 and T7-SYP22 from detergent extracts isolated from Arabidopsis microsomes (Figure 6, B and C).
!~MM~! Protein sequences of Vps11p and Vps33p and their closest homologues were acquired from GenBank (AtVPS11, AF436824; MmVPS11, BC016258; hVPS11, AB027508; NcVPS11, AL355933; SpVPS11, AL355013; Vps11p, X54466; CeVPS11, Z46794; DmVPS11, AY094791; AtVPS33, AF357527; MmVPS33, AK019463; hVPS33, BC016617; SpVPS33, AL136536; Vps33p, U19729; CeVPS33, U29488; car, AF133260). Full-length sequences were aligned using the ClustalW algorithm (CITATION), and a phylogenetic tree was prepared using the Drawgram algorithm (CITATION). The percentage of identity toward the Arabidopsis protein, indicated in parentheses, was calculated using the Align algorithm (CITATION). All sequence analyses were performed in the Biology Workbench web-based environment (http://workbench.sdsc.edu) under default conditions. AtVPS11 (amino acids 151–932) and AtVPS33(amino acids 59–336) were cloned into pET28b (Novagen, Madison, WI). These plasmids resulted in a translational fusion of a fragment of either AtVPS11 or AtVPS33 with six histidine residues. Overexpressed fusion proteins were purified under denaturing conditions by nickel affinity chromatography as described by the manufacturer (Novagen) and used to immunize rabbits at Cocalico Biologicals (Reamstown, PA). The antibodies were affinity-purified as described by CITATION. Briefly, the purified recombinant proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE and transferred to nitrocellulose, and the strip containing the fusion protein was cut out. After blocking in milk, crude serum was incubated with the strip. After extensive washing, the specific antibodies were eluted with 100 mM glycine, pH 2.5. The eluate was neutralized and used in all further experiments. Differential centrifugation and extraction of VCL1, AtVPS11, and AtVPS33 from microsomal membranes were performed as described inCITATION. Sucrose density gradients were done essentially as described previously by CITATION. Protein samples were analyzed by immunoblotting with antibodies to VCL1 (CITATION), AtALEU (CITATION), γ-TIP (Avila-Teeguarden and Raikhel, unpublished data), AtVPS45 (CITATION), SYP41 (CITATION), SYP21/22 (CITATION), AtSEC12 (CITATION), AtELP (CITATION), and SYP111 (CITATION). The PCR-modified VCL1 cDNA was inserted as aXhoI-BamHI fragment behind the constitutive cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter in pEZT–NL binary vector (Cutler and Ehrhardt, Carnegie Institution of Washington, Stanford, CA). The construct was transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens and subsequently vacuum-infiltrated into Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia as described previously (CITATION). Cryosections of Arabidopsis root tips were prepared as described by CITATION and used for all immunogold labeling experiments as in CITATION. A monoclonal antibody to green fluorescent protein (GFP) was acquired from Clontech Laboratories (Palo Alto, CA). For double-labeling experiments, after incubation of the grids with the first antibody, a second fixation step followed by a second blocking step was used to prevent cross-reactivity of the antibodies at later stages of the protocol. Many sections from independent plants were observed for each combination of antibodies. Controls were performed with the use of the corresponding preimmune serum substituted for one or both of the antisera. In all cases, these controls demonstrated high specificity of the labeling. Detergent extracts of microsomes from Arabidopsis tissues and subsequent immunoprecipitations were performed as described in CITATION and CITATION. Briefly, detergent extracts were incubated with specific antibodies or preimmune sera at 4°C, followed by Protein A–Sepharose beads (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech, Piscataway, NJ). Beads were pelleted and extensively washed, and bound proteins were eluted in SDS sample buffer. Each immunoprecipitation experiment was repeated at least twice from independent plants. A monoclonal antibody to T7 tag was acquired from Novagen.
