!~ABS~! The development of chloroplasts and the integration of their function within a plant cell rely on the presence of a complex biochemical machinery located within their limiting envelope membranes. To provide the most exhaustive view of the protein repertoire of chloroplast envelope membranes, we analyzed this membrane system using proteomics. To this purpose, we first developed a procedure to prepare highly purified envelope membranes from Arabidopsis chloroplasts. We then extracted envelope proteins using different methods, i.e. chloroform/methanol extraction and alkaline or saline treatments, in order to retrieve as many proteins as possible, from the most to least hydrophobic ones. Liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry analyses were then performed on each envelope membrane subfraction, leading to the identification of more than 100 proteins. About 80% of the identified proteins are known to be, or are very likely, located in the chloroplast envelope. The validation of localization in the envelope of two phosphate transporters exemplifies the need for a combination of strategies to perform the most exhaustive identification of genuine chloroplast envelope proteins. Interestingly, some of the identified proteins are found to be Nα-acetylated, which indicates the accurate location of the N terminus of the corresponding mature protein. With regard to function, more than 50% of the identified proteins have functions known or very likely to be associated with the chloroplast envelope. These proteins are a) involved in ion and metabolite transport, b) components of the protein import machinery, and c) involved in chloroplast lipid metabolism. Some soluble proteins, like proteases, proteins involved in carbon metabolism, or proteins involved in responses to oxidative stress, were associated with envelope membranes. Almost one-third of the proteins we identified have no known function. The present work helps understanding chloroplast envelope metabolism at the molecular level and provides a new overview of the biochemical machinery of the chloroplast envelope membranes. 
!~RES~! Chloroplasts from A. thaliana were purified according to Kunst (CITATION) with some modifications of the previously described protocol in order to optimize yield and purity. Using this protocol, an average of 54 mg chloroplast proteins was purified from 500 g of 3-wk-old Arabidopsis leaves. Excellent purity of these Percoll-purified Arabidopsis chloroplasts was confirmed through proteomic analysis. Only 5% (6 out of 112) of the identified Arabidopsis proteins may correspond to nonplastid proteins (Table I). Among them, one protein appeared to correspond to a previously characterized major plasma membrane component; four proteins may indicate contamination by major tonoplast proteins and one from a glyoxysome (specialized peroxisomes) compartment. Considering the high sensitivity of present mass spectrometers, it was not surprising to detect minute amounts of these few extra-plastidial contaminants, which are major proteins in their respective subcellular compartment. However, because the subcellular localization of some of these proteins remains to be unambiguously determined, the contamination of the Percoll-purified Arabidopsis chloroplasts may be overestimated. Indeed, we were recently able to demonstrate the unique plastid localization of a phosphate transporter (CITATION) that was previously suspected to be associated to the plasma membrane (CITATION). It is also important to notice that none of the 112 identified proteins appears to derive from mitochondria, an organelle known to represent a classical contaminant of purified plastids.  [[TABLE]] [[TABLE]] [[TABLE]] In order to purify plastid subfractions (envelope membranes, stroma, and thylakoid), Percoll-purified intact chloroplasts were lyzed in hypotonic medium and the three fractions were separated on sucrose gradients. From these plastid preparations, an average of 31 mg proteins from the stroma, 22.5 mg thylakoid proteins, and 300 μg envelope proteins could be purified. Purified envelope, stroma, and thylakoid proteins were further analyzed by SDS-PAGE, and these three fractions were shown to be poorly cross-contaminated. Indeed, Fig. 1 shows that the RuBisCo, the major stroma protein, was hardly detected in other subplastidial fractions. It is also noticeable that the LHCPs, which are major thylakoid proteins, were highly enriched in the thylakoid fraction and hardly visible in other subplastidial fractions. Finally, the phosphate/triose phosphate translocator, known as the major envelope component, was exclusively detected in the envelope fraction. This enrichment of envelope proteins in the purified fraction was further confirmed using Western blot experiments (Fig. 1) demonstrating enrichment of ceQORH, which is exclusively located in the plastid envelope (CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] Being the most likely source of membrane contamination of the purified envelope fraction, thylakoid cross-contamination was precisely assessed. Chlorophyll being the most conspicuous thylakoid component, we first analyzed the presence of this pigment in envelope membrane preparations. Indeed, the yellow color of the purified envelope fractions first indicates that purified envelope vesicles contain very few thylakoids (Fig. 2B). On a protein basis, the ratio of chlorophyll content detected in the purified envelope and thylakoid membranes, respectively, was 1/40. Western blot analyses were further performed with LHCP polyclonal antibodies as markers of thylakoid contamination. As presented in Fig. 2A, the proteins present in several independent envelope preparations appeared to contain between 1 and 3% thylakoid protein.  [[FIGURE]] We recently demonstrated that proteins extracted by chloroform/methanol mixtures are the most hydrophobic proteins of a membrane system (CITATION, CITATION). Thus the hydrophobic core of the spinach chloroplast envelope was analyzed and new envelope transporters were identified (CITATION). The present study shows the importance of using complementary methods aiming at the most exhaustive identification of envelope proteins. Using three different extraction procedures, i.e. chloroform/methanol extraction, alkaline treatment, and saline treatment, more than 100 proteins could be identified from highly purified fractions of the A. thaliana chloroplast envelope (Table I). These three complementary methods were used in order to retrieve and identify as many envelope proteins as possible; from the most to the least hydrophobic ones (Fig. 3). Indeed, about two-third (69/112) of identified proteins were found from only one extraction method and not from any of the two other ones (Fig. 4). This provides additional evidence to demonstrate the interest in using a wide set of methods to get the most exhaustive repertoire of a complex protein mixture. In the present study, the difference in protein dynamic range and in stringency with respect to protein hydrophobicity might explain the complementarities of the methods.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Organic solvent extraction allowed the highest percentage of highly hydrophobic proteins to be retrieved, as already shown in previous works (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). This extraction method allowed the identification of putative transporters (e.g. HP22, HP23, HP24, HP25, HP36b, HP47, IEP18, and RCP1; Table I), which were not detected using either alkaline (NaOH) or saline (NaCl) treatment and which are likely to be low abundant transporters. Indeed, transporters are often minor components of a membrane system and most of them are highly hydrophobic. By concentrating highly hydrophobic proteins, chloroform/methanol extraction makes some minor transporters amenable to mass spectrometric analysis and further identification. However, such an extraction procedure requires enough material as the yield of protein recovery in this fraction is about 5–10% of the total amount of proteins present in the native membrane. Although being less stringent with respect to the hydrophobicity and providing the use of highly purified fractions, alkaline and saline treatments allowed the identification of some highly hydrophobic proteins altogether with more hydrophilic ones. As expected, the more stringent the extraction method, the less the number of proteins identified. Chloroform/methanol is the most stringent method and alkaline treatment is more stringent than saline treatment with regard to the recovery of hydrophobic proteins. Indeed, chloroform/methanol extraction, alkaline, and saline treatments allowed the identification of 37, 51, and 74 proteins, respectively. The specificity toward hydrophobicity of each extraction method was exemplified by the identification of hydrophobic contaminants. The identification of only 9 thylakoid proteins in the overall analyses of the chloroplast envelope confirms the low thylakoid contamination level, considering that, in chloroplasts, the overall thylakoid membrane protein is about 40 times more abundant than envelope proteins (Table I). The percentage of thylakoid contaminants was found different according to the extraction method used. Indeed, the alkaline (NaOH) or saline (NaCl) treatments, which do not solubilize integral membrane proteins, provided a fair evaluation of the percentage of thylakoid contamination (2 and 4%, respectively, as estimated from the number of detected thylakoid proteins in the analyzed envelope sample).  In contrast, traces of some of the major thylakoid proteins in envelope subfractions appear to be concentrated during the extraction of hydrophobic proteins using chloroform/methanol (see supplemental data). Indeed, extraction in organic solvent allows the recovery of more than 30% of the thylakoid membrane proteins but only 5% of the envelope proteins (as estimated from the ratio of soluble and insoluble proteins using SDS-PAGE analyses of dilutions obtained from both fractions; see Ref. CITATION). Consequently, extractions of envelope fractions using organic solvents resulted in the enrichment of major thylakoid integral membrane proteins (19% thylakoid proteins), even if original thylakoid contamination was shown to be very low (about 2% in average).  The aim of a targeted proteomic study, such as the present one, is to provide relevant identifications for subsequent functional study. Our aim being the identification of envelope proteins, the identified proteins were classified according to their known (IM, OM, S, T, S/EB, S/TB, To) or putative (IM?, OM?, E?, PM?, G?, To?) localization (see Table I). Known localizations were essentially retrieved from previous studies. Although being arbitrary, putative localizations were assessed using rigorous criteria. Putative localization in the inner membrane (referred to IM? in Table I) was suggested with respect to the strong hydrophobicity and the presence of a predicted chloroplastic transit peptide (CITATION). Moreover, as discussed further, some of these proteins have putative functions that are compatible with their localization in the chloroplast inner envelope membrane.  Putative localization in the outer membrane refers to high homology with previously characterized outer envelope proteins (orthologous proteins) from other plant species (referred to OM? in Table I). Putative localization in the envelope (referred to E? in Table I) was suggested because of the very low contamination level, keeping in mind that all identified contaminants are major and characterized proteins in their respective subcellular compartments. Some of these proteins (HP90, HP22, HP30-2, HP30, and HP35), likely to be located in the envelope, show different levels of homology with proteins, previously classified as members of mitochondrial transporter families. As no known protein from mitochondria was detected in the present proteomic approach, these putative (but uncharacterized) transporters are rather unlikely to be actually located in mitochondria. Other putative locations (referred to To?, PM?, and G? in Table I) were deduced from the strong homology with proteins of known location. According to the classification described above, about 80% (89/112) of the identified proteins can be considered as genuine envelope proteins (Fig. 5), only 9/89 being peripheral envelope proteins (referred to S/EB in Table I) and the 80/89 remaining ones being either genuine outer or inner envelope membrane proteins. However, one cannot exclude that some of the stromal proteins could actually be bound to the envelope, as suggested, for example, for the multienzyme complexes with Benson-Calvin cycle activities (CITATION) or for the acetyl-CoA carboxylase (CITATION). Finally, 15% are proteins from other chloroplast subcompartments (stroma and thylakoids), and only 6% of the identified proteins are not chloroplastic proteins.  [[FIGURE]] The possible function of the identified proteins was also assessed using bioinformatic tools such as Blast or InterProScan (Fig. 6; Table I). Many of the 89 identified chloroplast envelope proteins are proteins involved in actual or putative transport functions (32%). Another 30% of these chloroplast proteins have unknown function, and none of the bioinformatic tools we used were able to suggest any function. This opens up real new and challenging investigation areas to find new and unsuspected functions for these new chloroplast envelope proteins. Moreover, some of them being highly hydrophobic, new families of transport systems might have been pointed out. Indeed, it is suspected that plant cells might have evolved unique transport properties that have no homolog in prokaryotic or other eukaryotic cells (CITATION). The implication of identified proteins with characterized or putative function for the chloroplast metabolism is discussed further.  [[FIGURE]] The present study gave clues for the accurate location of the N terminus of some proteins. Except for most proteins from the outer envelope membrane (for a recent review, see Ref. CITATION) and for the recently described ceQORH (CITATION), all chloroplastic proteins bear a cleavable N-terminal transit peptide. Although efficient bioinformatic tools, like TargetP or ChloroP, are able to predict such transit peptides, these tools are not 100% reliable. Fig. 7 shows the analyzed peptides that are very likely to correspond to the N terminus of some identified mature proteins. This assumption was based i) on the location of these peptides at the very N terminus end of the predicted protein sequence and/or ii) on their location near a predicted chloroplastic transit peptide maturation site and/or iii) on the N-acetylation of their N terminus.  [[FIGURE]] HP15 was found to be a putative membrane channel protein, very likely to be located in the outer membrane. In agreement with this location, no transit peptide signal was predicted for this protein. The present proteomic approach confirmed this prediction as the N terminus of this protein could be analyzed by mass spectrometry. Like for many proteins, the methionine at the N terminus was removed (Fig. 7). In the case of CP74 and HP26b proteins, the N-terminal peptides were found downstream of the predicted transit peptide but very close to the predicted maturation site (Fig. 7). Interestingly, in the case of HP35 a MS/MS analyzed peptide was found upstream of the predicted transit peptide, indicating that the putative location of the maturation site is not accurate (Fig. 7). The N-terminal peptides analyzed for HP35, CP74, and HP26b did not result from a specific trypsin cleavage. Although unspecific enzymatic cleavages are known to occur, the location of these nontryptic peptides very close to the predicted transit peptide signal strongly suggests that these peptides represent the N terminus of the processed proteins.  Other peptides located at the N terminus of some Arabidopsis proteins were found N-acetylated. With respect to this observation, previously identified spinach envelope protein-derived tryptic peptides (CITATION) were checked for the presence of such posttranslational modifications. Nα-acetylation is acknowledged to be a common post-translational modification of eukaryotic protein N termini. Indeed it was estimated that 70% of eukaryotic soluble proteins were N-acetylated (CITATION, CITATION). Some proteins, HP22, OMP24, and OEP6, were not predicted for having a chloroplastic transit peptide. Moreover, two of them, OMP24 and OEP6, are known to be located in the outer envelope membrane, which excludes the requirement for a transit chloroplastic peptide. In agreement with these predictions, Nα-acetylation occurred at the very N-terminal end of the protein and concerned the N-terminal methionine (OEP6) or the second amino acid residue (OMP24, HP22).  Other proteins were predicted for having a chloroplastic transit peptide. For proteins HP30c, HP27b, IEP18 (At), IEP18 (So), IEP62, FD6C, and IEP33 (So), N-acetylated peptides were found very close to the predicted maturation site. For proteins HP45 and IEP33 (At), N-acetylated peptides were found about 60 amino acids downstream of the predicted maturation site, thus suggesting that the prediction is not correct for these two proteins. Two other cases were not in agreement with ChloroP predictions: HP36 and HP60. Indeed, no maturation site was predicted for these proteins, while an N-acetylated peptide was found close to the N terminus of these proteins. Nevertheless, the relative connection between predictions and proteomic results shows that the maturation site prediction of plastid envelope proteins using the ChloroP program is rather accurate.  Many post-translational modifications have been described for plant and more precisely for chloroplast proteins. Indeed, methylation and carbamylation of proteins of the RuBisCo complex (CITATION, CITATION), glycosylation of a chloroplastic coupling factor (CITATION), palmitoylation of chloroplastic herbicide-binding protein (CITATION), and phosphorylation of a thylakoid protein (CITATION) have been described. N-acetylation of thylakoid proteins has emerged as an intriguing feature of the photosystem II. In addition to being found in four LHC II molecules, it is also found in three out of four phosphoproteins of the photosystem II core (CITATION–CITATION). The three identified N-acetylated peptides correspond to the N termini of Dl, D2, and CPa-2 (PsbA, PsbC, and PsbD) proteins and each begins with N-acetyl-0-phosphothreonine. In a paper dealing with thylakoid proteins, Peltier et al. (CITATION) quoted that among 55 proteins analyzed by Edman degradation none were likely to be blocked at the N terminus. The authors concluded that the N termini of most mature chloroplastic proteins are unlikely to be further modified (CITATION). Indeed, all nuclear-encoded chloroplastic proteins, which bear a transit peptide, are processed at the N terminus after import to remove this peptide. Thus, possible Nα-terminal modifications of the protein precursors that occurred in the cytosol are likely to be removed for proteins targeted to the chloroplast via a cleavable transit peptide. Conversely, Nα-acetylation of processed proteins that are known to be targeted to the inner envelope membrane, e.g. IEP18 (CITATION), HP45 and IEP60 (CITATION), and FD6C (CITATION), would imply an Nα-acetylation process in the course or after transit peptide cleavage. The question arising from these N-acetylations is the following: do they result from an in vivo process or are they an experimental artifact? For instance, it is acknowledged that carbamylation can occur in the presence of urea (CITATION) and thus can be artifact. In the present study, N-acetylation was only observed for peptides likely to correspond to the N terminus of the chloroplast envelope proteins. Therefore, if chemical Nα-acetylation occurred, it would have been before tryptic cleavage. The procedure used from chloroplast fractionation to SDS-PAGE analysis and before trypsin digestion is not in favor of a chemical Nα-acetylation. Consequently, in vivo Nα-acetylation of chloroplast envelope proteins is very likely to occur in the course or after transit peptide cleavage. As described in the literature (CITATION), Nα-acetyltransferases have specific substrates, either glycine, alanine, serine, or threonine residues (GAST substrates) or methionine residue (M substrate). In good agreement, among the 14 Nα-acetylations described in Fig. 7, 12 correspond to GAST substrates and 1 to an M substrate. Furthermore, in the case of the M substrate, Nα-acetylation occurred because the adjacent amino acid residue is a glutamic acid, in agreement with the literature (CITATION). Therefore, and as previously observed for thylakoid proteins (CITATION–CITATION), we can conclude that Nα-acetylation actually occurs for chloroplast envelope proteins. Consequently, when such Nα-acetylated tryptic peptides are identified, this suggests that these peptides might be the potential N termini of the corresponding mature proteins.  The question of the exact location of the N terminus of these chloroplast envelope proteins could be addressed by intact protein mass measurements. This strategy has been advocated for chloroplast thylakoid proteomics (CITATION) and developed into a viable proteomics strategy with LC-MS analyses (CITATION). The technology to perform intact protein mass measurements on integral membrane proteins, including transporters with up to 15 transmembrane helices, using electrospray ionization has been developed (CITATION–CITATION) and would be of great help to answer this question.  The present proteomic study, performed on subfractions deriving from Arabidopsis chloroplast envelope membranes, allowed identifying more than 100 plastid proteins, most of them being genuine envelope components. Because the Arabidopsis genome has been fully sequenced, this plant is the model of choice for proteomic analyses as far as protein identification is concerned. It appears, however, that a combination of strategies (proteomic and in silico approaches) and plant models is required to perform the exhaustive identification of the chloroplast envelope proteins. When focusing on the same chloroform/methanol extraction of envelope purified from both Arabidopsis (this work) and spinach (CITATION) chloroplasts, it appears that 15 proteins were exclusively found in Arabidopsis while more than 20 were exclusively found in the spinach samples (see supporting data, “Extraction Methods”). This suggests that several plant models may be required to identify chloroplast envelope proteins.  All known inner envelope proteins contain a classical N-terminal plastid transit peptide and thus should be predicted as localized in plastids using in silico approaches. However, while localized in the inner membrane of the chloroplast envelope, the ceQORH identified in the plastid envelope could not be predicted to be localized in plastids (Table II), because it lacks a classical N-terminal and cleavable plastid transit peptide (CITATION). Likewise, the HP36 protein could not be predicted to be plastid localized (Table II) because of an error in the prediction of the 5′ region in the Arabidopsis open reading frame during the Arabidopsis genome annotation (CITATION). Toc159 (CITATION, CITATION) or OEP21 (CITATION), some major outer envelope proteins, could not be predicted to be localized in plastids (Table II) because they lack a classical N-terminal chloroplast transit peptide, like most outer envelope membrane proteins. Toc159 and Tic55 were initially identified in pea chloroplast envelope membranes (CITATION) as components of the chloroplast protein import machinery. These two proteins were identified in Arabidopsis but not detected in spinach (Table II).  [[TABLE]] The case of phosphate transporters further highlights the requirement for using different biological models and strategies. As presented in Table II, the Pht2;1 phosphate transporter that was localized in the spinach chloroplast envelope (CITATION) was not identified during the study performed on Arabidopsis. With an in silico analysis, using ChloroP, a correct plastid localization was predicted for the Arabidopsis Pht2;1 (At3g2657), but not for the spinach protein (CITATION). Conversely, the same prediction tool predicts the plastid localization of the spinach triose-phosphate/phosphate translocator but does not predict that of the Arabidopsis protein (At5g46110) (Table II). Using recent information deriving from full-length sequencing of Arabidopsis cDNAs, we could identify some proteins corresponding to previously unassigned spinach peptides (CITATION). Among these proteins is the HP56-4 protein (At4g00370), a putative phosphate transporter. A close homologue of this protein, HP56-2 (At2g29650), was also identified in Arabidopsis Genome Initiative predictions using a BLAST-based method. Only HP56-2 Arabidopsis protein is predicted (in silico) to be localized in plastids (Table II). However, and in contrast with the HP56-4 homologue, we have not detected the HP56-2 protein by proteomics. Using transient expression of GFP fusions in Arabidopsis cells (Fig. 8), we demonstrated that both HP56-2 and HP56-4 proteins were targeted to plastids, thus strengthening the HP56-4 envelope localization and supporting the hypothesis that HP56-2 is indeed a plastid protein. This latter protein may be i) too poorly represented in chloroplasts purified from Arabidopsis or spinach leaves, ii) only expressed in nongreen tissues of the plant, or iii) only expressed at a given time of plant development, thus strengthening the interest of an in silico approach based on the prediction of protein structure and subcellular localization. Databases, like ARAMEMNON (CITATION), that use a set of different prediction programs to provide a statistical view of the possible subcellular localization, are therefore very interesting. Alternatively, subcellular-specific proteomic approaches have to be performed on other plant tissues that are compatible with the preparation of highly purified plastids (proplastids from cauliflower inflorescence, amyloplasts from sycamore cells, etc.).  [[FIGURE]] Several proteins were identified that correspond to validated or putative ion and metabolite transporters. They represented a high proportion of the proteins present in the chloroform/methanol extract. Nine proteins correspond to previously identified chloroplast envelope components (CITATION), and eight are previously unidentified envelope components that may catalyze transport activities across the chloroplast envelope (Table I). IEP45 (At5g12860) and HPSOT (At5g64290) are identified members of the 2-oxoglutarate/malate translocator family, and IEP30 (At5g46110) and IEP33 (At5g33320) are known members of the phosphate translocator family. IEP62 (At5g16150) and HP59 (At5g59250) are two putative sugar transporters, HP35 (At4g39460) is a putative mitochondrial carrier-like protein, and HP36 (At2g26900) is the previously identified member of the Na+/taurocholate transporter family. The implication of the association of these proteins in the envelope was previously discussed (CITATION). HP15 (At2g28900) is the Arabidopsis homologue of the previously identified OEP16 pea protein (amino acid-selective outer membrane channel; Ref. CITATION). The previously identified HP25 (At2g42770) and the new protein HP30c (At5g19750) are two members of the PMP22-like family that share homology with major integral peroxisomal membrane proteins suspected to act as solute transporters. HP45b (At5g01500) is a new member of the putative peroxisomal calcium-dependent solute carrier family but is distinct from the member previously identified in spinach. HP90 (At2g35800) is a new member of the calcium-dependent mitochondrial solute carrier family distinct from the member previously identified in spinach. Members of this last family transport C5-C7 oxodicarboxylates across the inner membranes of mitochondria. They can transport 2-oxoadipate, 2-oxoglutarate, adipate, glutarate, and, to a lesser extent, pimelate, 2-oxopimelate, 2-aminoadipate, oxaloacetate, and citrate (CITATION). HP77 (At4g25450) is a member of the nonintrinsic ABC transporter family (NAP8) and could be a subunit of multimeric quarter-molecule ABC transporters that, when subjected to phylogenetic analyses, group with the MDR/TAP/ATM family (CITATION). HP64 (At1g01790) is referred to as the putative K+ efflux antiporter KEA1 and shares more than 40% identity with the KEFC homologue from Escherichia coli, a transport system that facilitates potassium efflux, possibly by proton antiport (CITATION). This HP64 protein may thus participate in the modulation of K+/H+ counterfluxes across the envelope (CITATION). AHM1 (At4g37270) is referred as a potential cadmium/zinc-transporting ATPase (HMA1) and belongs to the cation transport ATPases family (E1-E2 ATPases, subfamily IB). Its sequence is distinct from that of the previously described chloroplast envelope Ca2+-ATPase-like protein (CITATION). Finally, HP47 (At5g52540) is a protein containing 10 potential transmembrane helices sharing low homology with C4-carboxylate transporters. Other identified proteins of unknown function but containing several potential transmembrane helices may correspond to new chloroplast envelope transporters (Table I). Indeed, 7 proteins among the 29 unknown proteins found in Arabidopsis envelope membranes combine all the characteristics for putative chloroplast envelope transporters, i.e. i) a chloroplast transit peptide, ii) a ratio of number of amino acid residues to putative transmembrane domains (Res/TM) below 100, iii) at least four transmembrane domains, and iv) a pI value above 8.8 (CITATION).  Import of nuclear-encoded precursor proteins into the chloroplast occurs through translocon complexes at the outer (Toc complex) and inner (Tic complex) envelope membranes. Numerous biochemical studies resulted in the characterization of components of the chloroplast import machinery (for reviews, see Refs. CITATION and CITATION). We identified a series of proteins previously known to be part of the Toc or the Tic complexes. Some of them have a high homology with pea (Pisum sativum) proteins (from which most of the import proteins were identified). Table I demonstrates the identification of the three main components of the Toc complex: Toc34, Toc75 (OEP75), Toc159 (OEP86). We also identified Toc33, a protein similar to Toc34, and a Toc64-like (HP64b) protein. Toc34 and Toc159 are GTP-binding proteins involved in precursor recognition, and Toc75 is forming an aqueous protein-conducting channel (for review, see Ref. CITATION). Toc64 is expected to function as a docking protein for cytosolic cofactors of the protein import into chloroplasts (CITATION). Concerning components of the Tic complex, we identified a series of proteins such as Tic40, Tic55, a Tic55-like (HP62) protein, and proteins with homology with Tic20 (IEP16) and Tic62 (HP26c). Tic22 was the only lacking component of the previously identified members of the Tic complex. This is not surprising because Tic22 is highly hydrophilic, contains no apparent membrane spanning domains, and is localized in the intermembrane space of the envelope (for review, see Refs. CITATION–CITATION). Therefore, Tic22 is likely to be excluded from the samples we analyzed because it was extracted from the envelope by all the different treatments performed in this study. In contrast, Tic20 is a hydrophobic, integral membrane protein playing a role in preprotein conductance at the inner envelope membrane (CITATION, CITATION). Tic40 was proposed to have a putative Hsp70 chaperone-interacting function (CITATION). Tic55 contains a predicted Rieske-type iron-sulfur cluster and was shown to be part of the core of the Tic complex (CITATION). The N terminus of Tic62 shows strong homologies to NAD(H) dehydrogenases in eukaryotes and to Ycf39-like proteins present in cyanobacteria and nongreen algae (CITATION). We also identified several chaperones involved in protein import, HP112 (IAP100) and ClpC. IAP100 was proposed to serve in recruiting chaperonin for folding of newly imported proteins (CITATION). ClpC, a soluble Hsp100 chaperone that appears to interact directly with Tic110, is thought to provide the driving force for chloroplast protein import (CITATION, CITATION). Although identified as a stroma protein, ClpC is clearly functionally associated with the envelope membrane.  In addition, we found three proteins (HP22, HP30, HP30-2) with some homology to components of the mitochondrial import machinery (Tim17/Tim22). This confirms our previous findings on spinach, where we identified another homolog of the Tim complex, namely HP20 (CITATION). Because we can rule out a specific contamination of chloroplast envelope membranes by Tim components (see above), our analyses demonstrate the unexpected presence in chloroplast envelope membranes of a series of proteins having homologies with components of the mitochondrial protein import machinery. In mitochondria, Tim17 (together with Tim23) constitute the import channel for preproteins containing amino-terminal hydrophilic presequences (CITATION). The Tim17, Tim22, and Tim23 proteins have in common a similar topology in the membrane and a homologous amino acid sequence. Interestingly, they show a sequence similarity to OEP16, a channel-forming amino acid transporter in the outer envelope of chloroplasts, and to LivH, a component of a prokaryotic amino acid permease (CITATION). One can question whether these proteins are true components of the Tic/Toc complexes or whether another import system is present in chloroplast envelope membranes. A similar question raised by the identification of an inner envelope protein containing internal targeting information (CITATION) is whether it is imported by distinct import mechanism, like in mitochondria (CITATION, CITATION), or by the normal Tic/Toc complexes used by precursor proteins containing cleavable N-terminal transit sequences.  Finally, our results provide further evidence for the use of cyanobacterial ancestor genes to build up the chloroplast envelope import machinery. Several examples have been already described. For instance, Toc75 is rather close, in sequence as well as in topography, to a cyanobacterial channel-forming protein (CITATION, CITATION). We identified HP65b, a protein having homology with the Synechocystis protein Q55511. This cyanobacterial protein is likely to be involved in protein export and could act as a chaperonin by maintaining the newly synthesized protein in an open conformation. A similar function of the related chloroplast protein is therefore rather possible.  Through our proteomics studies on spinach (CITATION) and Arabidopsis chloroplast envelope membranes (this work, Table I), we have identified several proteins involved in lipid metabolism (for a survey of the genes encoding these enzymes, see Ref. CITATION). The first step of chloroplast membrane lipid biosynthesis is the acylation of glycerol 3-phosphate to form phosphatidic acid. This is catalyzed by two acyltransferases: the first one, responsible for lysophosphatidic acid biosynthesis, is a stromal enzyme active in the vicinity of the inner envelope membrane (CITATION), whereas the second one, responsible for phosphatidic acid biosynthesis, resides to the inner membrane (for review, see Ref. CITATION). Indeed, we identified 2-lysophosphatidate acyltransferase (CITATION), an enzyme catalyzing the transfer of 16:0 (from 16:0-ACP) to the sn-2 position of lysophosphatidic acid, leading to the synthesis of phosphatidic acid, the precursor for chloroplast glycerolipids. MGD1, one of the three Arabidopsis monogalactosyldiacylglycerol (MGDG) synthases, the last committed step in MGDG biosynthesis, was identified in our previous study on spinach (CITATION). This protein is a very minor envelope protein (CITATION), thus providing some reason for its absence in the list of Arabidopsis proteins. Concerning the formation of other chloroplast-specific glycerolipids, we identified proteins that could participate to phosphatidylglycerol (PG) synthesis. The protein HP32c is a phosphatidylglycerophosphate synthase (or CDP-diacylglycerol:glycerol-3-phosphate phosphatidyltransferase); an Arabidopsis mutant, impaired in the corresponding gene (pgp1), has an overall PG content reduced by 30% and shows an 80% reduction in plastidial enzyme activity (CITATION). Envelope membranes also contain a protein (HP25b) that is a phosphatidylglycerophosphate synthase-like protein (for review, see Ref. CITATION). Interestingly, in silico analyses (CITATION) suggested that a putative CDP-diacylglycerol synthetase (At4g26770) could be present in envelope membranes. This enzyme could be the first step committed to chloroplast PG synthesis.  Chloroplast glycerolipids synthesized through the envelope membranes contain saturated (16:0) and monounsaturated fatty acids (18:1) and are therefore substrates for fatty acid desaturases that catalyze the formation of the polyunsaturated molecular species characteristic of plastid glycerolipids. Although genetic approaches shed new light on chloroplast membrane desaturases with the characterization of Arabidopsis mutants (for review, see Ref. CITATION), there was only little evidence for such enzymes to be present in chloroplast envelopes (CITATION). Indeed, we identified in envelope membranes two desaturases, namely FD3C and FD6C, corresponding respectively to omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acid desaturases. Genetic analyses on fad6 (FD6C) and fad7 (FD3C) mutants demonstrated that they are both chloroplast enzymes active on glycerolipids, and especially on galactolipids (for review, see Ref. CITATION). FD6C (oleate desaturase) catalyzes the formation of C18:2 from monounsaturated fatty acids, whereas FD3C (plastidial linoleate desaturase) introduces the third double bond leading to the formation of linolenate. Fatty acid desaturation is a complex process that requires an electron transfer chain. Using electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy, Jäger-Vottero et al. (CITATION) characterized in the spinach chloroplast envelope electron paramagnetic resonance signals corresponding to putative components of an electron transfer chain. None of the envelope components responsible for such signal have been identified to date, but the identification of a putative quinone oxidoreductase (IEP41; Ref. CITATION) in our spinach preparation may provide a first clue toward characterization of members of an envelope electron transfer chain. Interestingly, we also identified a putative flavin-containing oxidoreductase (HP52b).  In plant cells, most saturated and monounsaturated fatty acids are synthesized within the plastid stroma, but they are also used in the endoplasmic reticulum for the biosynthesis of phospholipid (phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylethanolamine, etc.) and therefore have to be exported to the cytosol. An hypothesis is that the acyl-CoA synthetase (which is located on the outer envelope membrane, Ref. CITATION) could be involved in fatty acids export from chloroplasts. We identified in Arabidopsis envelope membranes two proteins (HP76 and HP81) that could correspond to acyl-CoA synthetases. They were both among the 11 putative acyl-CoA synthetases identified by Shokey et al. (CITATION) in their survey of the Arabidopsis genome. These authors demonstrated that only nine of these genes actually encoded long-chain acyl-CoA synthetases (LACS). Although containing a putative AMP-binding site, HP81 is actually not a LACS because i) it was unable to complement yeast mutants and ii) the overexpressed protein was unable to synthesize acyl-CoAs. The exact function of this envelope protein therefore remains to be identified. In contrast, HP76 corresponds to one of the LACS proteins, namely LACS9. This protein was demonstrated by Schnurr et al. (CITATION) to complement yeast mutants and to catalyze the synthesis of acyl-CoAs. Most interestingly, they found that this protein is the major plastid acyl-CoA synthetase, and, by in vitro protein import and GFP fusion experiments, they demonstrated that it was targeted to the chloroplast envelope. Interestingly, LACS9 could not be extracted by a NaOH washing of chloroplast envelope membranes, in good agreement with our findings. This protein does not have any transit peptide and resides at the outer envelope membrane, as shown by previous biochemical studies (CITATION).  Oxylipins are metabolites produced by the oxidative transformation of unsaturated fatty acids via a series of diverging metabolic pathways. Blée and Joyard (CITATION) demonstrated that chloroplast envelope membranes can synthesize oxylipins, owing to enzymes like allene oxide synthase and hydroperoxyde lyase. Indeed, Froehlich et al. (CITATION) demonstrated that these two proteins are respectively targeted to the inner and outer envelope membrane. We identified one of these two proteins in Arabidopsis envelope membranes, namely the allene oxide synthase (CP74). We also identified a phospholipid hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase. This enzyme, which converts fatty acid hydroperoxides into alcohols, can be part of an ascorbate-glutathione cycle (see below). Altogether, these data suggest a role for envelope membranes in plant defense-signaling pathways, because such processes involve oxylipins.  Among the proteins involved in fatty acid metabolism, we identified two proteins, HP88b and ACCD, corresponding to two subunits of the acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACCase) complex, respectively the α and β subunits. In general, the ACCase complex is considered as soluble and is indeed easily extracted from the chloroplast stroma. However, our results strongly support a series of observations (CITATION–CITATION), suggesting that IEP96 (corresponding to HP88b) could be the α subunit of the ACCase. More recently, Thelen and Ohlrogge (CITATION) demonstrated the presence of α and β subunits of ACCase in envelope preparations by Western blot experiments. They proposed that the binding of ACCase to the chloroplast envelope could occur through nonionic interactions to the carboxyltransferase subunits. Our results provide further support to such observations: these proteins should be present at the stroma side of the inner envelope membrane, anchoring the ACCase complex to the membrane. Interestingly the β subunit of ACCase is chloroplast encoded.  We also identified IM30, a protein that could be involved in lipid transfer between the inner envelope membrane and thylakoids. This function was postulated because of its dual localization; immunocytochemical localization of this protein revealed that the protein occurred in clusters in the vicinity of both the envelope and the thylakoid (CITATION). Another protein, namely HP20b, was shown to contain domains homologous to domains present in lipid transfer proteins. Such proteins are essential in chloroplasts because the envelope is the site of membrane lipid biosynthesis, whereas thylakoids are the site for their accumulation.  Chloroplast membranes contain a series of compounds deriving (at least in part) from isopentenyl pyrophosphate: carotenoids, prenylquinones, and chlorophyll precursors (for reviews, see Refs. CITATION and CITATION). These compounds are synthesized in envelope membranes (CITATION), but some controversy still remains (especially for prenylquinone biosynthesis). Concerning the biosynthesis of chlorophyll precursors, protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase was characterized in spinach as well as in Arabidopsis. The presence of this protein in envelope membranes was first demonstrated functionally (CITATION), then with antibodies (CITATION), thus suggesting that envelope membranes could play a role in the biosynthesis of chlorophyll precursors (CITATION). Indeed, several other enzymes involved in the biosynthesis of protochlorophyllide were demonstrated to be present in purified envelope membranes (see for instance Refs. CITATION–CITATION). To date, none of these enzymes could be detected by proteomics.  In chloroplasts, the inner envelope membrane was shown to be the site of α-tocopherol and plastoquinone-9 synthesis (CITATION). In contrast, Swiezewska et al. (CITATION) proposed that plastoquinone and ubiquinone biosynthesis was in fact localized in Golgi membranes and that a specific transport system was required for plastoquinone and ubiquinone transfer, respectively, to chloroplasts and mitochondria (see also Ref. CITATION). Due to the difficulty in handling such membrane-associated enzymes using classical biochemical approaches, alternative approaches to clone the corresponding genes were developed. To date, only a nuclear-encoded methyltransferase (AtCOQ3) catalyzing the last step in ubiquinone biosynthesis and localized in the inner membrane from plant mitochondria was characterized (CITATION). We identified in envelope membranes two proteins that are candidates for a role in chloroplast prenylquinone biosynthesis. IEP37, one of the major inner envelope membrane protein, is a S-adenosyl-l-methionine-dependent methyltransferase (CITATION) having homology with UbiE/COQ5 methyltransferase, whereas HP43 presents a low homology with UBIA prenyltransferase. Interestingly, a mutant containing a transposon within the gene encoding IEP37 was shown to have a much lower content of chloroplast prenylquinones, thus suggesting that IEP37 is a methyltransferase committed to the biosynthesis of plastid prenylquinones.2 One intriguing question is why this protein is present in such large amounts in the inner envelope membrane (IEP37 is one of the major inner envelope membrane protein). Altogether, these observations are strong arguments in favor of a major role of envelope membranes in the biosynthesis of plastid prenylquinones.  Finally, major terpenoid compounds in envelope membranes are carotenoids (CITATION). Although enzymes involved in carotenoid biosynthesis and metabolism (abscisic acid biosynthesis) have not been yet detected by proteomics in spinach or Arabidopsis chloroplast envelope membranes, in silico analyses demonstrated that β-carotene hydroxylase, an enzyme of the zeaxanthin pathway, could be localized in envelope membranes (CITATION).  Plants are submitted to a wide variety of environmental stresses, like light, drought, nutrient, and temperature, that can induce oxidative stress through the formation of reactive oxygen species. This lead to major damages within membrane constituents, like lipids and proteins. For instance, large amounts of fatty acid hydroperoxides can be formed within envelope membranes. They can be metabolized through the ascorbate-glutathione cycle (for review, see Ref. CITATION). Indeed, we identified in Arabidospis envelope membranes several proteins that could be involved in oxidative stress responses: namely a phospholipid hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase (PHGPx), an ascorbate peroxydase, and a superoxide dismutase. Superoxide dismutase is a soluble protein that produces hydrogen peroxide. Ascorbate peroxydase is also a soluble protein. It mediates hydrogen peroxide detoxification in a series of reactions coupled to the functioning of PHGPx. PHGPx selectively acts on hydroperoxides, converting them to alcohols and therefore preventing lipid peroxidation. It is not very clear whether PHGPx is soluble or membrane bound, but it should be active in the vicinity of the membrane. Little is known on a possible role of chloroplast PHGPx in envelope membranes. But the demonstration that mitochondrial PHGPx is involved in the protection from inactivation of the adenine nucleotide translocator during hypoglycemia-induced apoptosis (CITATION) provides some clues toward the characterization of such a role in envelope membranes. We also identified an m-type thioredioxin (type 1), an enzyme that can induce hydrogen peroxide tolerance in chloroplasts (CITATION). Unfortunately, we do not know the actual target of this key enzyme in chloroplast redox network.  Ascorbate also serves as an antioxidant in many other detoxification reactions, such as the scavenging of hydroxyl radicals and the reduction of tocopheryl radicals produced by α-tocopherol, by quenching autocatalytic lipid peroxidation. Because α-tocopherol is the major prenylquinone in envelope membranes (for review, see Ref. CITATION) and because hydroxyl radicals can be formed by various reactions in this membrane system, the association of the ascorbate-glutathione cycle to the envelope membranes (rather likely to the inner membrane) is probably a physiological requirement for protecting the membrane against harmful reactive oxygen species responsible for lipid peroxidation. Furthermore, the possible presence of a β-carotene hydroxylase in envelope membranes (CITATION) is also in favor of such a role. As a matter of fact, Davidson et al. (CITATION) demonstrated that A. thaliana plants in which the chyB gene that encodes β-carotene hydroxylase was overexpressed were more tolerant to conditions of high light and high temperature, as shown by reduced lipid peroxidation.  Finally, the damages caused to membrane proteins submitted to an oxidative stress requires the presence of active repair mechanisms. We identified several proteases in Arabidopsis envelope membranes, namely two members of the ATP-dependent Clp family and one of the GTP-dependent FtsH family. Indeed, a possible role for these proteases could be to remove the damaged protein components from the envelope membrane.  Altogether, our observations demonstrate that in addition to antioxidant molecules, like α-tocopherol, a whole set of enzymes involved in prevention of oxidative stress (responses and repair mechanisms) are present in chloroplast envelope membranes. Because the thylakoid lumen also contains enzymes active in membrane protection against oxidative stress (CITATION), these data together with ours demonstrate that both chloroplast membrane systems (envelope membranes and thylakoids) contain complex enzymatic and nonenzymatic equipment to protect the chloroplast against oxidative stress. 
!~MM~! A. thaliana (ecotype Ws) seeds were grown in growth rooms at 23 °C (12-h light cycle) with a light intensity of 150 μmol·m−2 s−1. Plants were grown 3–4 weeks before harvesting.  Chloroplasts from A. thaliana were purified according to Kunst (CITATION) with the following modifications: crude chloroplasts were obtained from 400 to 500 g A. thaliana leaves and purified by isopycnic centrifugation using 6 Percoll gradients. Percoll gradients were preformed by centrifugation at 38,700 × g for 55 min (Sorvall SS-34 rotor; Sorvall, Newtown, CT). Leaves were ground two times 2 s, and the filtrate was centrifuged at 2070 × g for 2 min (Sorvall GS 3 rotor). After resuspension, chloroplasts were loaded on the top of the preformed Percoll gradients, and the gradients were centrifuged at 13,300 × g for 10 min (Sorvall swinging HB-6 rotor). Intact chloroplasts were collected from the gradients, diluted three to four times, and centrifuged at 2070 × g for 2 min (Sorvall swinging HB-6 rotor). All operations were carried out at 0–5 °C.  Purified intact chloroplasts were lysed in hypotonic medium in the presence of protease inhibitors (10 mm 4-morpholinepropanesulfonic acid (MOPS)1-NaOH, pH 7.8, 4 mm MgCl2, 1 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, 1 mm benzamidine, and 0.5 mm ε-amino caproic acid). Envelope membranes were purified from the lysate by centrifugation at 70,000 × g for 1 h (Beckman SW41-Ti rotor; Beckman, Urbana, IL) on sucrose gradients (0.93 m, 0.6 m, 0.3 m sucrose). Envelope membranes were collected at the 0.93/0.6 M interface and concentrated (after dilution three to four times in 10 mm MOPS-NaOH, pH 7.8 buffer containing protease inhibitors) using a centrifugation at 110,000 × g for 1 h (Beckman SW 41 Ti rotor). Envelope membrane preparations were stored in liquid nitrogen in 10 mm MOPS-NaOH, pH 7.8 (in the presence of protease inhibitors).  Protein contents of membrane fractions were estimated using the Bio-Rad protein assay reagent (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA) (CITATION). In order to remove most of the soluble stromal proteins contaminating the chloroplast envelope vesicles, envelope membrane preparations were first treated by sonication as previously described (CITATION). The resulting mixture was stored for 15 min on ice before centrifugation (4 °C, 20 min, 12,000 × g), and proteins recovered in the pellet (membrane proteins) were further analyzed, while solubilized proteins (most of the stromal contaminants) were discarded.  The more hydrophobic proteins of the chloroplast envelope were extracted from envelope preparations using a 5/4 (v/v) chloroform/methanol mixture as previously described (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). Envelope membranes (0.5-mg proteins in 0.1-ml storage buffer) were slowly diluted in 0.9 ml of cold chloroform/methanol (2:1, v/v) solution. The resulting mixture was stored for 15 min on ice before centrifugation (4 °C, 20 min, 12,000 × g). Proteins insoluble in the organic phase were recovered as a white pellet and discarded. Proteins present in the organic phase were precipitated with cold acetone (−20 °C) and resuspended in 50 μl of SDS-PAGE buffer.  Chloroplast envelope proteins were also extracted using alkaline (NaOH, 0.5 m) or salt treatments (NaCl, 1 m). In order to solubilize membrane proteins present in both the outer and the inner surfaces of the vesicles, sonication of the membrane preparations was also performed during these two treatments. The resulting mixtures were stored for 15 min on ice before centrifugation (4 °C, 20 min, 12,000 × g). Insoluble proteins were recovered as white pellets and resuspended in 50 μl of SDS-PAGE buffer.  Proteins were loaded on 12% acrylamide gels for SDS-PAGE analyses (CITATION). For the analyses of subplastidial fractions and for Western blot analyses, each fraction contained 15 μg of proteins. For tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) experiments, 30–50 μg of proteins (estimations from SDS-PAGE analyses) were loaded on 12% acrylamide gels (7-cm gels, Bio-Rad). The ceQORH protein was detected using the purified antibodies diluted 1:5000 and using alkaline phosphatase staining as previously described (CITATION). The light harvesting complex proteins (LHCPs) were detected using rabbit polyclonal antibodies (a gift from Dr. Olivier Vallon; Institut de Biologie Physico-Chimique, Paris, France) diluted 1:10,000 and using alkaline phosphatase staining.  After SDS-PAGE (migration was stopped just between the stacking and the separating gels so that proteins were concentrated on a very fine band for further analyses), a discrete band was excised from the Coomassie blue-stained gel. The in-gel digestion was carried out as previously described (CITATION). Gel pieces were then extracted with 5% (v/v) formic acid solution and acetonitrile. After drying, tryptic peptides were resuspended in 0.5% aqueous trifluoroacetic acid. The samples were injected into a LC-Packings (Dionex, Sunnyvale, CA) nanoLC system and first preconcentrated on a 300 μm × 5 mm PepMap C18 precolumn. The peptides were then eluted onto a C18 column (75 μm × 150 mm). The chromatographic separation used a gradient from solution A (5% water, 95% acetonitrile, 0.1% formic acid) to solution B (5% acetonitrile, 95% water, 0.1% formic acid) over 60 min at a flow rate of 200 nl/min. The liquid chromatography (LC) system was directly coupled to quadrupole time-of-flight (QTOF) 1 or QTOF Ultima mass spectrometer (Waters, Milford, MA). MS and MS/MS data were acquired and processed automatically using MassLynx 3.5 software. Database searching was carried out using the MASCOT 1.7 program. Two protein databases were used; an updated compilation of SwissProt and Trembl (us.expasy.org/databases/sp_tr_nrdb/) and the ArabidopsisGenome Initiative protein database (ftp.arabidopsis.org/home/tair/Sequences/blast_datasets/). Proteins that were identified with at least 2 peptides showing both a score higher than 40 were validated without any manual validation. For proteins identified by only 1 peptide having a score higher than 40, the peptide sequence was checked manually. Peptides with scores higher than 20 and lower than 40 were systematically checked and/or interpreted manually to confirm or cancel the MASCOT suggestion. The remaining unassigned peptides were interpreted manually, and internet MS-Pattern (prospector.ucsf.edu/) and Blast (www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/BLAST/) were used for database searching.  Predictions for chloroplast localization and membrane-spanning regions were achieved using the software programs ChloroP (CITATION) and HMMTOP (CITATION), respectively. Predictions of functions were carried out using BLAST (www.ch.embnet.org/software/BottomBLAST.html) and InterProScan (www.ebi.ac.uk/interpro/scan.html) tools.  The green fluorescent protein (GFP) reporter plasmid 35Ω-sGFP(S65T) and the 35Ω-sGFP(S65T)-derived plasmid containing the transit peptide (TP) sequence from RBCS fused to GFP [35Ω-TP-sGFP(S65T)] were described previously (CITATION).  Construction of the plasmids for expression of P56-2 or P56-4 Arabidopsis proteins fused to GFP was performed as follows. The coding region of the Arabidopsis P56-2 protein was PCR-amplified using flanking primers XhoI-N-ter (ATCCTCGAGATGAACGCGAGAGCTCTTCTTTGC) and BspHI-C-ter (GAATGGTCATGACGATTATCTTCTCTCCGGTTG). The coding region of the Arabidopsis P56-4 protein was PCR-amplified using flanking primers XhoI-N-ter (AGACTCGAGATGGCCCTCGGTGGCTTGATTTC) and AflIII-C-ter (GGTACATGTCGAGAATTTTTTCTCCGGTTGCG). Both PCR products were cloned into the pBluescript SK− Vector. The XhoI-BspHI (P56-2) or XhoI-AflIII (P56-4) fragments cleaved from these plasmids were inserted into the SalI-NcoI-digested GFP reporter plasmid 35Ω-sGFP(S65T) to create the 35Ω-P56-2-sGFP(S65T) and 35Ω-P56-4-sGFP(S65T) vectors, respectively. Correct orientation and sequence of the inserted fragments were controlled. The plasmids used for tissue bombardment were prepared using the QIAfilter Plasmid Midi Kit (Qiagen Laboratories, Hiden, Germany).  For transient expression of the proteins, plasmids of appropriate constructions (1 μg) were introduced into Arabidopsis and BY2 cells using a pneumatic particle gun (PDS-1000/He; Bio-Rad). Growth of Arabidopsis or BY2 cells, conditions of cell bombardment, and fluorescence microscopy were as previously described (CITATION). 
