!~ABS~! In a recent bioinformatic analysis, we predicted the presence of multiple families of cell surface glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored proteins (GAPs) in Arabidopsis (G.H.H. Borner, D.J. Sherrier, T.J. Stevens, I.T. Arkin, P. Dupree [CITATION] Plant Physiol 129: 486-499). A number of publications have since demonstrated the importance of predicted GAPs in diverse physiological processes including root development, cell wall integrity, and adhesion. However, direct experimental evidence for their GPI anchoring is mostly lacking. Here, we present the first, to our knowledge, large-scale proteomic identification of plant GAPs. Triton X-114 phase partitioning and sensitivity to phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C were used to prepare GAP-rich fractions from Arabidopsis callus cells. Two-dimensional fluorescence difference gel electrophoresis and one-dimensional sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis demonstrated the existence of a large number of phospholipase C-sensitive Arabidopsis proteins. Using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry, 30 GAPs were identified, including six β-1,3 glucanases, five phytocyanins, four fasciclin-like arabinogalactan proteins, four receptor-like proteins, two Hedgehog-interacting-like proteins, two putative glycerophosphodiesterases, a lipid transfer-like protein, a COBRA-like protein, SKU5, and SKS1. These results validate our previous bioinformatic analysis of the Arabidopsis protein database. Using the confirmed GAPs from the proteomic analysis to train the search algorithm, as well as improved genomic annotation, an updated in silico screen yielded 64 new candidates, raising the total to 248 predicted GAPs in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! In our previous genomic analysis of Arabidopsis, we identified more than 15 protein families comprising 210 putative GAPs (CITATION). To validate these predictions, a proteomics approach was taken to identify bona fide GAPs. Treatment with Pi-PLC in conjunction with Triton X-114 detergent phase partitioning is an established method to determine GPI anchoring of proteins (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). It relies on the partitioning of membrane proteins based on their hydrophobicities in a two-phase system. GAPs can be identified by a characteristic shift from the hydrophobic detergent-rich phase to the hydrophilic aqueous phase upon cleavage of the GPI-anchor with Pi-PLC. Using this method, GAPs were prepared from Arabidopsis callus membranes. To identify any abundant non-GAPs that contaminate the GAP-rich aqueous phase, a control experiment (without Pi-PLC) was performed. Preparations of GAPs were first analyzed by 2D-DIGE. The Pi-PLC-treated and control aqueous phases were labeled with different fluorescent CyDyes and pooled before isoelectric focusing (IEF; pH range 3–10) and SDS-PAGE in a single gel (CITATION). Proteins were detected with a dual-channel fluorescence scanner (Fig. 1, A and B). This revealed the presence of many proteins specifically enriched in the Pi-PLC-treated fraction and some background proteins present in both fractions. Because the samples were separated in a single gel, DIGE allowed unambiguous matching of spots and, thus, demonstrated a clear distinction between these two populations (Fig. 1C; Pi-PLC-sensitive proteins shown in red). The large number of Pi-PLC-sensitive proteins is in agreement with the results obtained by Sherrier et al. (CITATION).   [[FIGURE]] Proteins clearly enriched in the Pi-PLC-treated fraction were excised, digested with trypsin, and subjected to liquid chromatography (LC)-tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS). Eleven proteins were identified (Fig. 1D; Table I, Identification A). Analysis of their predicted protein sequences indicated that they all have the structural components necessary for GPI anchoring and that eight were predicted by Borner et al. (CITATION). Thus, the preparation and analysis method allowed identification of GAPs from Arabidopsis.    Confirmed GPI-anchored proteins from Arabidopsis callus  Proteins were separated by two-dimensional difference gel electrophoresis (A, pH 3-10; B, pH 4-7) or one-dimensional SDS-PAGE (C, 12% [w/v] gel; D, 16% [w/v] gel). Proteins sensitive to Pi-PLC were identified by LC-MS/MS. Letters indicate experiments that yielded identification of a protein. Uppercase letters indicate identifications with greater than 95% confidence based on MASCOT scores (see “Materials and Methods”). The most likely cleavage sites (CITATION) are indicated (bold). The hydrophobic domain of each C-terminal signal peptide is underlined. Confirmations have been submitted to the Munich Information Center for Protein Sequences (MIPS). The most abundant Pi-PLC-sensitive proteins focused in a narrow pH range (from 4.5–5.5). To increase the resolution in this area of the gel, GAPs were analyzed by 2D-DIGE using a zoom strip (pH range 4–7) during IEF. The spot pattern obtained was comparable with the one observed with a broader pH-range but revealed numerous previously merged or undetectable proteins (Fig. 1, E–G). As before, Pi-PLC-sensitive proteins were excised, digested with trypsin, and subjected to LC-MS/MS. In addition to confirming several of the previous identifications, one further GAP (SKU5) was identified (Fig. 1H; Table I, Identification B). Several of the protein spots were of too low abundance to yield sufficient peptides for LC-MS/MS analysis. CyDye labeling is a highly sensitive detection method and allows visualization of very low protein quantities (CITATION).   [[FIGURE]] To identify further Pi-PLC-sensitive proteins that were not recovered from 2D gels, preparations of GAPs were analyzed by one-dimensional SDS-PAGE. Pi-PLC-treated and -untreated fractions were separated in parallel lanes in the same gel. Proteins were stained with Coomassie Blue (data not shown). Bands clearly enriched in the Pi-PLC-treated fraction were excised, digested with trypsin, and the peptides were subjected to LC-MS/MS. To identify proteins not visible with Coomassie Blue, both treated and control lanes were excised completely, cut into sections, digested with trypsin, and peptides analyzed by LC-MS/MS. Twenty-three Arabidopsis GAPs were found specifically enriched in the Pi-PLC-treated fraction (Table I, Identifications C and D). Only one protein (At4g20830) that has a sequence not predicted to confer GPI anchoring copartitioned with the GAPs. The proteomic analysis identified 30 proteins in total that were sensitive to Pi-PLC and have sequence features expected of GAPs, indicating that they are GPI anchored (Table I). Furthermore, 21 of them had been predicted in the genomic analysis (CITATION). Eight of the novel GAPs were not correctly annotated in the protein database used by Borner et al. (CITATION); therefore, it was not possible to predict them at that time. The ninth has a charge in the C-terminal signal peptide (At1g27950). However, all the novel GAPs belong to the families previously predicted. Because the first genomic prediction was very effective but limited by apparently incomplete or incorrect annotation of the genome in August 2001, the MIPS Arabidopsis data set (November 30, 2002) was analyzed according to Borner et al. (CITATION). Of the 26,618 proteins in the database, 239 GAPs were predicted, including 55 new candidates. One hundred eighty-four proteins described in the previous analysis were confirmed, whereas 26 were no longer predicted to become GPI anchored in their present annotation. Candidate GAPs were sorted into families based on sequence similarity to known proteins. A single new protein family, consisting of three pectate lyases not correctly annotated in the August 2001 database, was added to the previously described list. Unknown and hypothetical proteins were also grouped on the basis of sequence similarity. The results are summarized in Table II.    Predicted and confirmed GPI-anchored proteins in Arabidopsis  Confirmed GPI-anchored proteins are marked by superscript nos. (Table I). Bold indicates the presence of probable AG glycomodules. Entries in parentheses are candidates that have weak predictions for N- or C-terminal peptides. Families of homologous unknown/hypothetical proteins are separated by semicolons. Predictions have been submitted to MIPS. The new set of predictions included 28 of the 30 GAPs confirmed by proteomic methods. The two missing proteins, At3g13560 (β-1,3 glucanase) and At1g27950 (LTPL), have all the structural hallmarks of GAPs but are unusual in that they have very hydrophilic or charged residues in their hydrophobic C termini. To investigate the possible occurrence of further such GAPs in Arabidopsis, we modified the C-terminal hydrophobic segment requirements of our search algorithm, GPT (GPI anchoring prediction tool). The algorithm was permitted to ignore two hydrophilic or charged residues while the minimum summed hydrophobicity was significantly increased. We trained this new version of GPT on the set of 30 confirmed Arabidopsis GAPs shown in Table I. Analysis of the MIPS protein database resulted in the identification of nine novel candidate GAPs. In addition to the two unusual confirmed GAPs from the proteomic analysis, these included a classical AGP, a phytocyanin, a further β-1,3 glucanase, and a GAPEP, all strong candidates for GPI anchoring. The new sequences were added to Table II (footnote a), resulting in a total of 248 predicted or confirmed Arabidopsis GAPs. The GAP predictions and confirmations are available at MIPS. One of the most unexpected predictions of Borner et al. (CITATION) was that 42% of GAPs have (hydroxy) Pro-rich AG-type glycosylation modules (CITATION; CITATION). In the updated analysis, we still predict that 100 of 248 (40%) GAPs have putative AG glycomodules, of which only 29 are classical AGPs or AG peptides (Table II).
!~MM~! The annotated Arabidopsis protein database was retrieved from MIPS http://mips.gsf.de/proj/thal/db/index.html. Where necessary, gene entries from MIPS were re-annotated using GenBank ESTs or cDNA information found in MIPS. Bioinformatic analysis of the Arabidopsis protein database was carried out as described by Borner et al. (CITATION). In brief, our own algorithm GPT was used to generate a list of candidate GAPs with putative N- and C-terminal signal peptides. This list was subsequently refined using SignalP version 2.0 (CITATION), TMHMM (CITATION), and the rules established by Udenfriend and Kodukula (CITATION). Thus, the method will not identify any GAP with a signal anchor, such as DAMP1 of mammalian cells (CITATION). A modified version of GPT was used to screen for GAPs with charged C termini. The confirmed GAPs from our proteomic analysis were used as the training set. The most stringent settings that identified >90% of the training sequences, including the two GAPs with charged C termini (At3g13560 and At1g27950), were determined to the following values: signal length at C terminus 12 amino acids and hydrophobicity –25 kJ mol–1 (GES scale; CITATION), ignoring up to two internal hydrophilic or charged residues. Sequence alignments were performed using ClustalW (CITATION) on the European Bioinformatics server (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/clustalw). BLAST searches (Altschul et al., CITATION, CITATION) for homologous sequences from all organisms and searches for conserved domains using Reverse Position-Specific BLAST (CITATION) were performed on the National Centre for Biotechnology server (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/BLAST). BLAST searches of the Arabidopsis genome were performed on The Arabidopsis Information Resource server (http://www.Arabidopsis.org/Blast). Liquid cultures of Arabidopsis Columbia callus were established and maintained as described (CITATION). Cells were grown in large culture flasks for 3 weeks before being harvested for biochemical fractionation. To prepare total cell membranes, callus tissue was resuspended in two volumes of cold homogenization buffer (12% [w/v] Suc, 1 mm EDTA, and 100 mm Tris-HCl [pH 8.0]). Three pulses of 15 s at 5,700 rpm with a polytron (Kinematica, Littav, Switzerland) were used to homogenize the tissue at 4°C. The homogenate was centrifuged three times for 10 min at 1,600g to remove cell debris. The membrane suspension was then pelleted onto a 1.8 m Suc cushion at 100,000g for 35 min. The membrane fraction was harvested and diluted 5-fold in cold TNE (25 mm Tris-HCl, 150 mm NaCl, and 5 mm EDTA [pH 7.5]). After centrifugation at 100,000g for 2 h, membrane pellets were resuspended in cold TNE and homogenized in a 1-mL Dounce glass homogenizer. Membrane preparations were frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored in aliquots at –80°C. For the preparation of GAPs, 10 to 15 mg of total membrane protein was processed for a single experiment using a protocol adapted from Sherrier et al. (CITATION). Membranes were resuspended in 2% (v/v) Triton X-114/TNE at 37°C. After removal of insoluble material by centrifugation at 4°C, phase separation was induced by raising the temperature to 37°C. The detergent phase was washed three times by repartitioning with Tris-buffered saline (10 mm Tris and 150 mm NaCl [pH 7.4 at 37°C]), split into two equal fractions, and diluted 20-fold in Tris-buffered saline. Pi-PLC (Sigma, St. Louis) was added to one sample to a final concentration of 1.5 units mL–1. Both samples were incubated at 37°C for 1 h and 30 min as described by Sherrier et al. (CITATION). The aqueous phases were separated and washed twice with fresh Triton X-114. Gelatin (Sigma) or bovine serum albumin (New England Biolabs, Beverly, MA) was added to both samples to increase total protein concentration. After ultrafiltration (Centricon, molecular weight cutoff = 10,000, Millipore, Bedford, MA) to reduce the volume, proteins were precipitated with 80% (w/v) acetone at –20°C overnight. Proteins were air dried and resuspended in AUT sample buffer (10 mm Tris/HCl [pH 8.5], 7 m urea, 2 m thiourea, and 2% [w/v] amino-sulfobetaine detergent [ASB14]) for two-dimensional electrophoresis and in SDS sample buffer for one-dimensional electrophoresis. Non-saturating labeling of samples was performed using NHS esters of Cy3 or Cy5 (CyDye DIGE fluors, Amersham Biosciences, Amersham, UK). Dye (200 pmol) was added to 30 μg of sample in AUT sample buffer to give a typical total volume of 10 to 15 μL and left on ice in the dark for 30 min. The reaction was quenched by the addition of 10 nmol Lys and further incubation for 10 min. The sample was then prepared for IEF by the addition of an equal volume of sample buffer (20 mg mL–1 dithiothreitol, 2% appropriate immobilized pH gradient (IPG) buffer [Amersham Biosciences], 7 m urea, 2 m thiourea, and 2% [w/v] ASB14). Two-dimensional electrophoresis was carried using 13-cm pH 3 to 10 or pH 4 to 7 IPG strips in conjunction with an IPGPhor (Amersham Biosciences). IPG strips were rehydrated for 12 h with rehydration buffer (2 mg mL–1 dithiothreitol, 1% [w/v] appropriate IPG buffer, 7 m urea, 2 m thiourea, and 2% [w/v] ASB14) to which the sample was added to give a final volume of 250 μL. Focusing was carried out for a total of 41,700 V h. Separation in the second dimension was carried out using a 12% (w/v) SDS-PAGE gel (Hoefer SE600, Amersham Biosciences,). Gels were scanned with the appropriate excitation and emission wavelengths for Cy3 and Cy5 using a 2920–2DMasterImager (Amersham Biosciences). Images were exported as TIF Files. False coloration and contrast enhancement of scans were performed with Adobe Photoshop (Adobe Systems, Mountain View, CA). One-dimensional SDS-PAGE was performed using a standard protocol (CITATION) except that all solutions were filtered and polymerized for at least 12 h. Pi-PLC-treated and control fractions were separated next to each other on a large (20-cm) 12% (w/v) polyacrylamide gel for optimum resolution. Bands significantly enriched in the treated fraction were excised and analyzed by LC-MS/MS. Alternatively, Pi-PLC-treated and control fractions were separated on a 16% (w/v) acrylamide minigel (4 cm). Both lanes were excised completely, cut into regular sections, and analyzed by LC-MS/MS. The total composition of both fractions was compared. For analysis by mass spectrometry, proteins were stained with Coomassie G250 and excised manually. Proteins within the gel-excised spots were first reduced, carboxyamide methylated, and then digested to peptides using trypsin on a MassPrepStation (Micromass, Manchester, UK). The resulting peptides were applied to LC-MS/MS. The liquid chromatographic separation was achieved with a PepMap C18, 180-μm i.d., 15-cm column (LC Packings, Amsterdam). The mass spectrometer was a QTof (Micromass). Fragmentation data was used to search the National Center for Biotechnology Information Arabidopsis database using the MASCOT search engine (http://www.matrixscience.com). Probability-based MASCOT scores were used to evaluate identifications. Only matches with P < 0.05 for random occurrence were considered significant (further explanation of MASCOT scores can be found at http://www.matrixscience.com). Manual sequence assignment was assisted using the peptide sequencing feature of BioLynx (Micromass).
