!~ABS~! The NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase of the mitochondrial respiratory chain is a large multisubunit complex in eukaryotes containing 30–40 different subunits. Analysis of this complex using blue-native gel electrophoresis coupled to tandem mass spectrometry (MS) has identified a series of 30 different proteins from the model dicot plant, Arabidopsis, and 24 different proteins from the model monocot plant, rice. These proteins have been linked back to genes from plant genome sequencing and comparison of this dataset made with predicted orthologs of complex I components in these plants. This analysis reveals that plants contain the series of 14 highly conserved complex I subunits found in other eukaryotic and related prokaryotic enzymes and a small set of 9 proteins widely found in eukaryotic complexes. A significant number of the proteins present in bovine complex I but absent from fungal complex I are also absent from plant complex I and are not encoded in plant genomes. A series of plant-specific nuclear-encoded complex I associated subunits were identified, including a series of ferripyochelin-binding protein-like subunits and a range of small proteins of unknown function. This represents a post-genomic and large-scale analysis of complex I composition in higher plants.
!~RES~! Separation of mitochondrial membranes by BN-PAGE allows the separation of intact electron transport chain complexes on the basis of their apparent molecular mass [BIB13] . Subsequent second-dimension separation of the subunits within each complex using reducing SDS-PAGE displays these subunits for analysis. Our separation of Arabidopsis and rice membrane proteins in this manner revealed a series of complexes. We are undertaking a comprehensive identification of the proteins in each of these complexes and in [FIG1] present the very high molecular mass section of BN-PAGE gels from Arabidopsis and rice. Several protein complexes are evident. The identification of four of these high molecular mass complexes in Arabidopsis was confirmed by sequencing components from each by MS (data not shown). The predicted masses of the complexes were derived by comparison with masses observed in potato mitochondrial preparations (Jansch et al. [BIB13] ; A.H. Millar, unpublished data). The largest of the protein complexes contained a series of 30 kDa subunits [FIG1] . Mass spectrometry revealed that these were products from prohibitin-like genes in both Arabidopsis (At1g03860, At2g20530, At4g28510 and At5g40770) and rice (TIGR 2952.m00055) (data not shown). This complex is likely to be an oligomer of prohibitin chaperonin proteins. A similar prohibitin complex, with a native mass of >1000 kDa, has been identified in yeast [BIB24] , where genetic studies have shown that it is essential for cell survival and is associated with proteolysis by the Clp protease system [BIB25] . The second largest complex on the BN-PAGE strip is the NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase, or complex I of the respiratory chain. In Arabidopsis, this complex was present consistently in two forms of slightly different mobilities on BN-PAGE. In rice, on the other hand, only a single form of complex I was observed. The native mass of complex I has been estimated at approximately 1000 kDa in higher plants [BIB12 BIB13] . Following complex I, the edge of the F 1 F O ATP synthase is apparent, with a mass of approximately 550 kDa. Near the F 1 F O complex, a small amount of membrane-bound HSP60 complex (native mass approximately 750 kDa) is apparent; this protein complex is much more prominent on BN-PAGE separations of soluble plant mitochondrial proteins [BIB13] . Complex I from both plant species separated into a large number of individual bands following SDS-PAGE. A small number of these proteins have been identified from other plant species by N-terminal sequencing and the use of cross-reacting antibodies [BIB10 BIB12 BIB13] . In order to systematically identify the Arabidopsis and rice proteins, bands were excised, trypsin digested and the resultant peptides analyzed by collision MS/MS and database matching. A set of 21 bands from the low-mobility complex I and 17 bands from the high-mobility form of complex I from Arabidopsis were analyzed along with 22 bands from the rice complex I [FIG1] . This full range of separated protein bands was obtained using Tris–glycine SDS-PAGE to separate protein bands in the >14 kDa range, and Tris–tricine SDS-PAGE to separate in the <14 kDa range. Thirty different proteins were identified in the 38 gel bands of complex I from Arabidopsis and 24 different proteins in the 22 gel bands in rice [TBL1 TBL2] . Database searching revealed that some of these proteins were orthologs of known complex I components from other eukaryotes [TBL1] . In Arabidopsis, the products of four mitochondrial-encoded subunits (ND1, ND5, ND7 and ND9) were detected along with products of 17 nuclear-encoded known complex I gene orthologs. In rice, the products of ND1, ND7 and ND9 were detected, but the absence of the gene sequences for ND1 forced matching of these peptides to the homologous gene from other plants. The high degree of identity of these mitochondrial NAD genes across plants allowed accurate matching of the rice peptides across species. The products of 14 nuclear-encoded known complex I genes from rice were also identified. In addition to these counterparts of well-known complex I proteins [TBL1] , we identified a further set of proteins, largely of unknown function, from both Arabidopsis and rice [TBL2] . Both species contained proteins at 25–32 kDa that comprise a gene family related to bacterial siderophores known as ferripyochelin-binding proteins [TBL2] . These proteins have not been shown to be associated with complex I from other eukaryotes to our knowledge, and no clear orthologs are present in mammalian genomes or the N. crassa genome. Both rice and Arabidopsis contain orthologs with 80–90% identity to Swiss-Prot P80730, a 22 amino acid N-terminal sequence from potato complex I, submitted by U. Herz and L. Grohmann in 1996 as the “16 kDa subunit of NADH dehydrogenase”. An identical potato protein has been claimed to be the plant ATP synthase inhibitor protein (12, 26) despite the very low homology of these proteins to the inhibitor protein from other eukaryotes [BIB26] . Whatever the possible involvement with the ATP synthase, it seems clear that this protein is found prominently in complex I preparations from potato, Arabidopsis and rice. Rice also contains two proteins annotated as “NADH dehydrogenase 11 kDa proteins” based on 80–90% N-terminal identity to a 20 amino acid N-terminal sequence from a potato complex I subunit purified by U. Herz and entered in the Swiss-Prot database (P80729). An Arabidopsis ortholog of this protein also exists and is annotated at the Munich Information Centre for Protein Sequences (MIPS) as At1g67350, but the TIGR locus entry of the same name is a frame-shifted protein sequence in the same region. We have no evidence to date for this later protein's presence in our Arabidopsis complex I preparation. A series of small molecular mass proteins were also discovered in both Arabidopsis and rice complex I. The very similar products of the At2g57785 and At2g42310 genes, and the rice ortholog 3605.m00182, were found. These proteins are predicted to contain mitochondrial targeting presequences by both Predotar and TargetP, but their sequences do not match to proteins of known or predicted function [TBL2] . There is some similarity of the rice sequence to a region near the N-terminus of the mammalian and N. crassa mitochondrial complex I component, ND6, but this similarity is not very evident in the Arabidopsis sequences and may be a coincidence. The Arabidopsis protein encoded by At2g31490 and the rice ortholog BAB67906 were also found, but neither were predicted to be mitochondrial by the prediction programs used here. The presence of these proteins in both species provides good initial evidence for the future investigation of these proteins as possible complex I components in plants. Finally, there are a series of proteins identified that require extra research to more clearly define their role as potential complex I components. In Arabidopsis, the higher mobility complex I form contained a distinct protein band at 60 kDa. Sequencing revealed this protein to be galactono-lactone dehydrogenase (At3g47930). This enzyme is responsible for the final step of ascorbate biosynthesis that occurs on the inner mitochondrial membrane in plants [BIB27] . The location and association of this protein with complex I was previously unknown, although a biochemical link with the electron transport chain had been established [BIB27] . We were not able to identify this protein in our rice complex I samples from dark-grown rice shoots, perhaps due to very low expression of genes encoding ascorbate-synthesizing proteins under such conditions or the lack of co-migration of this enzyme with complex I in rice. The plant complex I preparations also contain two additional small proteins (products of At4g20150 and 2468.m00122) that do not contain any obvious sequence identity to either each other or to proteins of known function from other eukaryotes. Both proteins contain mitochondrial targeting presequences according to multiple prediction programs. This provides some further bioinformatic evidence that they are likely to represent legitimate MS identifications of mitochondrial proteins. However, these single identifications need to be further investigated to substantiate claims of their association with complex I. It should be noted that these identifications are based on purification of complex I by a one-step process, blue native gel electrophoresis, largely due to the low yields of mitochondria from these model plant species. While this technique has produced impressive separation of native complexes in its application to mitochondrial samples [BIB13 BIB20 BIB21] , the possibility that co-elution of complexes or nonspecific association of protein to complexes during this procedure must be entertained. In it's defense, we have not found known components of other major electron transport chain complexes or carrier proteins identified by MS in our complex I lane [TBL1 TBL2] , but we cannot discount the possibility that some of the plant-specific proteins observed in our complex I preparations could be due to such co-elution or nonspecific associations. Given the diversity of the proteins found in the plant complex I preparations, it seemed advisable to consider the findings of [TBL1 TBL2] in the context of which counterparts to known complex I proteins had been found and whether the missing counterparts were in fact present in plant genomes. All of the mammalian genes for the 38 nuclear-encoded proteins and the 7 mitochondrial-encoded proteins of complex I have been sequenced [BIB2 BIB3 BIB5 BIB6 BIB7] . A generic nomenclature for complex I genes, taking into account the structural association data, has been proposed for the human genes [BIB2] and is used as a helpful basis for [TBL3] . Purified complex I can be disassociated into Iα and Iβ subcomplexes [BIB3] . The Iα complex contains the flavoprotein subcomplex (NDUFV1-3), the Fe–S center subcomplex proteins (NDUFS1-8) and a range of proteins of unknown function (NDUFA1-13). The Iβ subcomplex contains a set of 11 proteins (NDUFB1-11), apparently originating from the membrane arm of the complex but with no known function. Several subunits are lost from the complex during Iα and Iβ complex separation (NDUFC1-2) and one protein, the SDAP protein, is localized in both subcomplexes (NDUFAB1). The mitochondrial-encoded proteins in mammals are orthologs of the bacterial NUOA and NUOJ–NUON products. The five proteins responsible for directly binding Fe–S centers and/or FMN (NDUFS1, NDUFS7, NDUFS8, NDUFV1, NDUFV2) along with two Fe–S subcomplex proteins (NDUFS2 and NDUFS3) are counterparts of the bacterial NUOB–NUOG proteins [BIB4] . The products of these 14 orthologous genes are also found in the extensively studied complex I from the fungus N. crassa [BIB1] . In addition, a series of ten N. crassa complex I proteins have mammalian analogs [TBL3] , while a set of four N. crassa complex I components (14, 17.8, 20.9, 21.3a) have no known counterparts in the mammalian complex [BIB1] . On the basis of this information, the human protein sequences were used to search genomic and EST databases from Arabidopsis and rice to identify probable plant orthologs. In Arabidopsis, orthologs of all 14 conserved subunits were identified, with only one existing as a family of two members, the NDUSF8 orthologs At1g79010 and At1g16700. In addition, orthologs for 14 other mammalian complex I subunits were identified [TBL3] . In rice, the lack of a complete mitochondrial genome sequence hampered identification, although ample evidence exists for the conservation of ND genes in the rice mitochondrial genome [TBL3] . Orthologs for 10 of the 14 highly conserved complex I subunits have been sequenced in rice, 6 nuclear-encoded genes and 4 mitochondrial-encoded genes. In addition, a series of 15 other genes encoding proteins with similarity to mammalian complex I subunits were identified. In higher plants, two genes encoding Fe–S subcomplex proteins that are nuclear encoded in N. crassa and mammalian species (NDUFS2-3) are encoded in the plant mitochondrial genome as NAD7 and NAD9. Only one of the seven N. crassa complex I genes that do not have mammalian counterparts appears to have plant counterparts, namely the 20.9 subunit (Swiss-Prot X60829, data not shown in [TBL3] , see [TBL1] ). Neither of the newly identified mammalian components, B14.7 and ESSS [BIB7] , have clear orthologs in plant genomes [TBL3] . Looking across the dataset presented in [TBL3] , it appears that a significant number of the mammalian nuclear-encoded complex I subunits have no clear orthologs yet identified in the genomes of fungi and higher plants (shown shaded). Nearly all of the Iβ subcomplex components are currently missing, along with both NDUFC components and several components in the I subcomplex. It is possible that orthologous components do exist but are absent from our analysis due to very divergent sequence; this possibility awaits further experimental analysis of the plant complex I and more extensive bioinformatic analysis. A core set of nine proteins not found in the prokaryotic enzyme do appear to be conserved across all the eukaryotes analyzed. This set is currently much smaller than the set of 27 subunits that have been identified in mammals and are not present in the bacterial enzyme. When this genomic analysis [TBL3] is linked with components definitively identified in purified plant complex I [TBL1] , an interesting pattern emerges ( [TBL3] , asterisk columns). The Fe–S subcomplex proteins and flavoprotein subcomplex components dominate those proteins positively identified by MS in the plant complexes, while products of most of the nuclear-encoded genes conserved between plants and other eukaryotes were also found to be present. However, in the case of both Arabidopsis and rice, a number of sequence orthologs of mammalian components have currently not be detected in plant genomes (shaded regions [TBL3] and NDUFA3). Also, clear complex-I-like genes present in the plant genomes were observed in some cases to be consistently missing from the complexes purified by BN-PAGE from the two species (e.g. NDUFA8, NDUFAB1, NDUFB9, NDUFS6). It must be noted that hydrophobic proteins and those that do not digest with trypsin will be likely to remain undetected using these experimental approaches, and so such nondetections cannot be considered definitive evidence of absence. However, it is noteworthy that most of these proteins currently undetected in plant complexes and/or genomes represent components for which no functional role has been described in any system to date (see below).
!~MM~! A heterotrophic Arabidopsis cell culture, established from callus of ecotype Lansberg erecta stem explants, was maintained by weekly subculture in Murashige and Skoog basal media supplemented with 3% (w/v) sucrose, 0.5 mg/l naphthaleneacetic acid and 0.05 mg/l kinetin [BIB22] . The cell cultures were maintained in 250 ml conical flasks in the dark at 22 °C in an orbital shaker (150 rpm). At 6–7 days, each flask (120 ml of cell culture) contained 8–10 g FW cells and growth was approximately in the middle of the log phase. Subculture of 20 ml of culture to 100 ml of fresh media initiated the cycle again. A total of 1.0–1.2 l of 7-day-old dark-grown cell suspension culture was filtered through gauze to remove media and then the cells disrupted in a Waring blender by three successive 15-s bursts. Disruption of 60 g of cells was performed in 200 ml of grinding medium (0.45 M mannitol, 50 mM sodium pyrophosphate, 0.5% (w/v) bovine serum albumin (BSA), 0.5% (w/v) PVP-40, 2 mM EGTA, 20 mM cysteine pH 8.0). Filtered cell extract was separated by differential centrifugation and mitochondria purified from the resultant organelle pellets by two Percoll gradients according to Millar et al. [BIB19] . Approximately 5–7 mg of total mitochondrial protein is obtained using this approach. Batches of 200 g of rice (cv Amaroo) seed were washed in 1% (w/v) bleach for 10 mins, rinsed in distilled water and grown in the dark in vermiculite slats (30×40 cm) at a constant 30 °C, watered daily and grown for 7 days. Rice shoots were harvested using scissors and cut into 5–10 mm lengths into a beaker on ice. Cut shoots (100 g) were ground in a precooled mortar and pestle using acid-washed sand in 300 ml of homogenization solution (0.3 M sucrose, 25 mM tetrasodiumpyrophosphate, 2 mM EDTA, 10 mM KH 2 PO 4 , 1% PVP-40, 1% BSA, 20 mM ascorbate, pH 7.5). After filtering homogenate through four layers of miracloth, it was centrifuged for 5 min at 1000× g , then the supernatant again centrifuged at 20,000× g for 20 min. The resultant organelle pellet was resuspended in wash buffer (0.3 M sucrose, 10 mM TES–KOH pH 7.5, 0.1% (w/v) BSA) and the two centrifugation steps repeated to produce a washed organelle pellet. This resuspended pellet was layered over 0–4.4% PVP-40 preformed gradient in a 28% (v/v) Percoll self-forming gradient in wash buffer and centrifuged at 30,000× g for 45 min. Mitochondria formed a band towards the bottom of the gradient, the upper plastid material was discarded and the mitochondrial band removed, attempting to minimize contamination of peroxisomal material from the bottom of the gradient. Following two wash centrifugation steps at 20,000× g for 15 min, the pellet was layered over a second self-forming gradient consisting of 45% Percoll in wash buffer and centrifuged for 30 min at 30,000× g . Mitochondria remained near the top of the gradient while remaining peroxisomal material migrated to the bottom of the gradient. The mitochondrial layer was aspirated and concentrated by wash centrifugation steps at 20,000× g for 15 min. Approximately 3–6 mg of total rice mitochondrial protein is obtained by this approach. BN-PAGE was performed largely according to Jansch et al. [BIB13] . Gels consisted of a separating gel (5–15% w/v acrylamide) and a stacking gel (4% w/v acrylamide) formed in a solution of 0.25 M ε-amino- n -caproic acid and 25 mM Bis-Tris–HCl (pH 7.0). The anode buffer consisted of 50 mM Tricine, 15 mM Bis-Tris–HCl, 0.02% w/v Blue G250 (pH 7.0) and the cathode buffer of 50 mM Bis-Tris–HCl (pH 7.0). Mitochondrial sample pellets were suspended to approximately 2 mg ml −1 in 10 mM TES (pH 7.5), freeze–thawed repeatedly in liquid N 2 , and centrifuged for 20 min at 20,000× g . Membrane pellets were then washed with 10 mM TES (pH 7.5). Aliquots of 1–2 mg of membrane protein were suspended in 75 μl of an ACA buffer solution (containing 0.75 M ε-amino- n -caproic acid, 0.5 mM Na 2 EDTA, 50 mM Bis-Tris–HCl pH 7.0) followed by addition of 15 μl of a freshly prepared solution of 10% (w/v) n -dodecylmaltoside. After 10 min centrifugation at 20,000× g , 15 μl of 5% w/v Blue G250 (dissolved in ACA buffer) was added to the supernatants. Gels were run at 4 °C in a precooled apparatus with all samples and buffers precooled to 4 °C. Approximately 30 min before the run, 0.03% w/v n -dodecylmaltoside was added to the cathode buffer only. Electrophoresis was commenced at 100 V constant voltage for 45 min, and then increased to 15 mA without voltage limitation for 5 h. BN lanes were cut from gels, equilibrated in standard SDS-PAGE sample buffer for 30 min, laid horizontally on 12% acrylamide SDS-PAGE separating gels, sealed in with 0.5% agarose and electrophoresis continued for 5 h under standard conditions. Q-TOF MS/MS was performed on an Applied Biosystems Q-STAR Pulsar (Q-TOF MS) using an IonSpray source. Protein spots to be analyzed were cut from BN-PAGE gels, destained, dried at 50 °C in a dry block heater and stored at −70 °C. For the sequencing analysis, the proteins were digested with trypsin according to Sweetlove et al. [BIB23] , injected into the electrospray source in 50% (v/v) methanol/0.1% (v/v) formic acid and selected doubly charged peptides, identified in MS-TOF mode, fragmented by N 2 collision and analyzed by MS/MS. Mass spectra and collision MS/MS data were analyzed with Analyst QS, BioAnalyst and ProID software (Applied Biosystems, Foster City). Sequence orthologs were identified by BLAST analysis of N. crassa and bovine genes against v3.0 of the Arabidopsis protein set, a draft rice genome protein set and rice gene indices all distributed by The Institute for Genomic Research (TIGR), and the Arabidopsis and rice National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) entries. The E (expected) values of matches were recorded to give an indication of the degree of similarity between the plant and mammalian sequences. E values were obtained from BLASTP and TBLASTN analyses. The most significant match was utilized for the determination of sequence orthologs, in many cases this represented a relatively stringent E value of less than 10 −6 . Where low levels of identity were observed, further sequence structural analyses were undertaken to confirm them as likely matches. Predotar ( http://www.inra.fr/Internet/Produits/Predotar/ ), TargetP ( http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/ ) and MitoProt ( http://www.mips.biochem.mpg.de/cgi-bin/proj/medgen/mitofilter ) targeting predictions were determined using full-length predicted protein sequences.
