!~ABS~! Background: In contrast to the intense attention devoted to research on intracellular sterol trafficking in animal cells, knowledge about sterol transport in plant cells remains limited, and virtually nothing is known about plant endocytic sterol trafficking. Similar to animals, biosynthetic sterol transport occurs from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) via the Golgi apparatus to the plasma membrane. The vesicle trafficking inhibitor brefeldin A (BFA) has been suggested to disrupt biosynthetic sterol transport at the Golgi level. Results: Here, we report on early endocytic sterol trafficking in Arabidopsis root epidermal cells by introducing filipin as a tool for fluorescent sterol detection. Sterols can be internalized from the plasma membrane and localize to endosomes positive for the early endosomal Rab5 GTPase homolog ARA6 fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP) (ARA6-GFP). Early endocytic sterol transport is actin dependent and highly BFA sensitive. BFA causes coaccumulation of sterols, endocytic markers like ARA6-GFP, and PIN2, a polarly localized presumptive auxin transport protein, in early endosome agglomerations that can be distinguished from ER and Golgi. Sterol accumulation in such aggregates is enhanced in actin2 mutants, and the actin-depolymerizing drug cytochalasin D inhibits sterol redistribution from endosome aggregations. Conclusions: Early endocytic sterol trafficking involves transport via ARA6-positive early endosomes that, in contrast to animal cells, is actin dependent. Our results reveal sterol-enriched early endosomes as targets for BFA interference in plants. Early endocytic sterol trafficking and recycling of polar PIN2 protein share a common pathway, suggesting a connection between plant endocytic sterol transport and polar sorting events.
!~RES~! In animal cells, the sterol binding antibiotic filipin is routinely used for fluorescent and ultrastructural detection of free cholesterol CITATION . By modifying protocols for cholesterol localization, we established filipin as a probe for fluorescent detection of plant 3-β-hydroxysterols. Filipin specifically detected 3-β-hydroxysterols on blots and in Arabidopsis roots (see Figure S1 in the Supplemental Data available with this article online). Subsequently, we analyzed sterol distributions in epidermal cells by colocalizing filipin-sterol fluorescence with green or yellow fluorescent proteins (GFP or YFP) targeted to different organelles CITATION . As a PM marker, we employed enhanced GFP (EGFP) fused to the low-temperature-inducible protein LTI6a (also called rapidly cold-inducible 2a, RCI2a) CITATION , a member of a family of conserved, small, integral PM proteins CITATION . Arabidopsis LTI6a/RCI2a encodes a functional homolog of yeast Pmp3p originally purified as a PM proteolipid CITATION . Filipin-sterol fluorescence was predominantly observed at the cell periphery ( CITATION ) , where it colabeled with EGFP-LTI6a ( CITATION ) . At the ultrastructural level, filipin-sterol complexes formed characteristic 20–30 nm protruberances at the PM CITATION . Filipin-sterol fluorescence also accumulated in intracellular compartments CITATION . We observed little overlap between sterols and the distribution of ER-targeted proteins such as mGFP5-ER and EGFP-Q4 ( CITATION ; data not shown for EGFP-Q4). Similarly, little colabeling of sterols was found with Golgi-targeted N -acetylglucosaminyl transferase I CITATION fused to EGFP (NAG-EGFP) CITATION . As a second Golgi marker, we utilized rat N -α-2,6-sialyltransferase fused to YFP ( N -ST-YFP). In Arabidopsis roots, rat α-2,6-sialyltransferase localizes to cisternae and membranes of the trans side of the Golgi CITATION , and a fluorescent protein fusion localizes to the trans side of Golgi stacks in tobacco CITATION . Sterols partially colabeled with N -ST-YFP CITATION . Similarly, we observed partial overlap of filipin-sterol fluorescence and the early endosomal Rab5 homolog ARA6 fused to GFP CITATION . Consistently, ARA6-GFP and GFP fusions of two other Rab5 homologs (ARA7 and RHA1) partially colabeled with filipin-sterol fluorescence in protoplasts (data not shown), and this colocalization pattern is reminiscent of filipin-cholesterol colocalization with Rab5-GFP in animal cells CITATION . Our results demonstrate that Arabidopsis sterols are abundant in the PM and may also localize to the trans -Golgi. Furthermore, they reveal ARA6-positive early endosomes as novel sterol-enriched compartments in plants. To analyze sterol internalization, we pulse labeled live Arabidopsis roots expressing EGFP-LTI6a with filipin and examined epidermal cells for filipin-sterol fluorescence. Subsequent to filipin labeling and wash out, filipin-sterol fluorescence occurred at the PM CITATION . After 30 min of incubation in filipin-free medium, sterol fluorescence appeared in internal compartments, while steady-state EGFP-LTI6a localization remained unaffected CITATION . These findings suggest that sterols are internalized in the Arabidopsis root epidermis and support that endocytic sterol trafficking occurs in plant cells. We next analyzed BFA effects on sterol trafficking in the Arabidopsis root epidermis. In epidermal cells, 25 μM BFA caused strong coaccumulation of sterols and EGFP-LTI6a in discrete subcellular compartments as early as 5–30 min after application ( CITATION ) . Similarly, EGFP-LTI6a rapidly colabeled with the endocytosis marker FM4-64 in BFA-induced compartments CITATION . These results suggest that sterol-enriched BFA compartments contain early endosomes. Consistent with this view, ARA6-GFP partially colabeled with sterols in BFA-induced structures CITATION . Under the same conditions, sterol-containing compartments did not accumulate ER-targeted proteins CITATION . Notably, early BFA-induced sterol compartments could be distinguished from the Golgi. Both Golgi markers N -ST-YFP CITATION and NAG-EGFP CITATION mainly localized to multiple discrete, punctate structures that surrounded sterol-containing compartments and likely represented individual Golgi stacks. A low degree of colabeling between N -ST-YFP and sterols, however, was observed in sterol-containing structures ( CITATION , inset) and suggests that some trans -Golgi material may contribute to sterol-containing BFA compartments. Consistent with these results, ultrastructural analyses revealed that BFA-induced agglomeration of a mixed vesicle population that contained only some trans -Golgi-derived material was devoid of ER and was surrounded by Golgi stacks ( CITATION ) . Together, our findings suggest that BFA induces agglomeration of sterol-containing vesicles that partially represent early endosomes. We further examined whether components in BFA compartments derive from the PM by double pulse labeling plants that expressed EGFP-LTI6a with filipin and FM4-64. All three components colabeled in the center of BFA compartments CITATION , demonstrating that sterol- and FM4-64-positive material in these structures derives from the PM. To establish the fate of PM proteins accumulating in BFA compartments, we analyzed trafficking of newly synthesized EGFP-LTI6a under BFA treatment by fluorescent recovery after photobleaching (FRAP). After bleaching of EGFP-LTI6a fluorescence, de novo synthesized protein rapidly reappeared at the PM, while recovery in BFA compartments occurred with an approximate 30-min delay (30 ± 5 min, n = 5 roots) CITATION . By contrast, BFA did not significantly influence FRAP of EGFP-LTI6a at the PM, when compared to samples that were not treated with the inhibitor (Figure S2B in the Supplemental Data). Thus, BFA does not primarily affect EGFP-LTI6a targeting to the PM, but rather a later trafficking step likely to involve endocytosis. We addressed whether EGFP-LTI6a in BFA compartments derived from the PM rather than from a biosynthetic pathway. Application of cycloheximide (CHX) did not obviously influence steady-state levels of EGFP-LTI6a at the PM CITATION , but it effectively inhibited FRAP of EGFP-LTI6a (Figure S2C in the Supplemental Data). These findings suggest that biosynthesis does not strongly contribute to the PM pool of this protein at steady state, and they indicate that it is not rapidly degraded. CHX preincubation and the subsequent addition of BFA did not obviously influence accumulation of EGFP-LTI6a in BFA compartments CITATION . Thus, similar to PIN1 in vascular cells CITATION , accumulation of EGFP-LTI6a in epidermal BFA compartments occurred largely independent of protein biosynthesis. Since PM-derived sterols and EGFP-LTI6a rapidly colocalized with early endosomal markers upon BFA treatment, our data strongly suggest that BFA interferes with early endocytic sterol trafficking. To elucidate cytoskeletal requirements of endocytic sterol trafficking, we examined the effects of actin and tubulin inhibitors on subcellular sterol distributions. Application of the tubulin-depolymerizing drugs oryzalin or nocodazole did not affect subcellular sterol distributions in elongating cells (data not shown). By contrast, application of the actin-depolymerizing drug cytochalasin D (cytD) caused sterol accumulation in small intracellular compartments ( CITATION ) . These differed by their higher number and smaller size from BFA-induced endosome agglomerations but, similarly, coaccumulated sterols and EGFP-LTI6a CITATION . FRAP analysis of roots pretreated with cytD revealed fluorescence recovery of EGFP-LTI6a at the PM, while hardly any recovery was observed in intracellular compartments CITATION . These results indicate a strong cytD effect on the endocytic pathway of the sterol colocalizing PM protein. Together, our results suggest that early endocytic sterol and EGFP-LTI6a trafficking require the actin cytoskeleton. We further examined whether interference with the actin cytoskeleton affects trafficking of sterol-containing early endosomes. Application of cytD caused coaccumulation of sterols and ARA6-GFP CITATION as well as colocalization of FM4-64 and ARA6-GFP (data not shown) in cytD-induced compartments. These findings suggest that sterol-enriched cytD compartments contain early endosomes. Additionally, some sterol- or FM4-64-containing cytD compartments coaccumulated Golgi markers ( CITATION ; data not shown for FM4-64), indicating that cytD treatment causes agglomeration or partial fusion of early endosomes and the Golgi. These results suggest that, similar to transport of Golgi stacks CITATION , trafficking of sterol-enriched early endosomes requires the actin cytoskeleton. We investigated whether sterols can redistribute from endosomal aggregates. To this end, we examined the reversibility of sterol accumulation after inhibitor treatment and found that the effects of even prolonged incubation with either cytD or BFA were reversible after drug wash out ( CITATION ) . Application of cytD after BFA treatment and wash out inhibited sterol redistribution from BFA compartments CITATION , and this inhibition suggests that sterol redistribution from endosomes requires the actin cytoskeleton. We further studied the actin dependence of endocytic sterol trafficking by analyzing sterol distributions in deformed root hairs 1 ( der1 ) mutants defective in the ACTIN2 ( ACT2 ) gene CITATION . der1 mutants represent partial loss-of-function act2 alleles that display root epidermal polarity defects CITATION . In der1 alleles, sterol distribution and FM4-64 internalization appeared normal (data not shown). By contrast, all three der1 alleles were hypersensitive to treatment with 10 μM BFA for 30 min. BFA induced formation of 2–4 large sterol-positive compartments in der1 mutants ( CITATION ; data not shown for der1-3 ) that are clearly distinct from the higher number of small punctate structures in BFA-treated wild-type cells CITATION . Similarly, BFA differentially affected FM4-64 internalization and distribution in wild-type CITATION and der1 epidermal cells CITATION . Consistent with der1 mutant phenotypes in epidermal differentiation CITATION , differences in sterol and FM4-64 distribution were observed in elongating and differentiated der1 epidermal cells CITATION . The hypersensitivity of der1 mutants to BFA-induced sterol and FM4-64 accumulation suggests that ACTIN2 is required for normal sterol distribution and early endocytic trafficking. The defects observed in der1 closely resemble the effects of actin inhibitors on sterol redistribution from endosome agglomerations. These findings further support an actin requirement during redistribution events in early endocytic sterol trafficking. The cytoskeletal and vesicle transport requirements for early endocytic sterol trafficking resembled those described for PIN1 recycling in vascular cells CITATION . However, the PM localization of another presumptive auxin transporter, the auxin influx carrier AUX1, can be modified by BFA treatment CITATION . To address whether endocytic sterol trafficking is regulated by mechanisms similar to those governing the transport of PIN or AUX proteins, we examined sterol distributions in double labeling experiments with antibodies against epidermally expressed PIN2 CITATION and hemagglutinin (HA) epitope-tagged AUX1 protein CITATION . Sterols colabeled with PIN2 and HA-AUX1 at the PM of untreated epidermal cells ( CITATION ) . PIN2 and HA-AUX1 displayed their expected PM localizations toward the apical end or with a preferential apical-basal orientation, respectively CITATION CITATION . Upon short-term BFA treatment, sterols colabeled with PIN2 in endosomal vesicle agglomerations, while PIN2 only partially maintained its apical localization at the PM CITATION . Under the same conditions, HA-AUX1 localization remained unaffected (data not shown). Extending the application period to 3 hr at 100 μM BFA caused almost complete loss of apical PIN2 from the PM and strong colabeling with sterols in BFA compartments CITATION . Under the same conditions, HA-AUX1 localization appeared more diffuse and depolarized when compared to untreated epidermal cells, but no distinct colocalization with sterols was observed in BFA-induced structures CITATION . Our findings demonstrate that BFA affects polar membrane localization of diverse PM proteins with different efficiency and specificity. They suggest that early endocytic sterol trafficking and polar PIN protein recycling follow a common BFA-sensitive endocytic pathway.
!~MM~! Seeds homozygous for der1-1 , der1-2 , or der1-3 mutations CITATION and from homozygous aux1-22 plants expressing N-terminally HA-tagged AUX1 under its own promoter CITATION were kindly provided by C. Ringli (Zürich, Switzerland) and M.J. Bennett (Nottingham, UK), respectively. Seeds from lines segregating EGFP-Lti6a , EGFP-Lti6b , and EGFP-Q4 CITATION were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis stock center (UK) (stock numbers N84758, N84726, and N84728). mGFP5-ER was kindly made available by J. Haseloff (Cambridge, UK) ( http://www.plantsci.cam.ac.uk/Haseloff/GFP/mgfpseq.html ; CITATION ). Experiments included wild-type controls employing nontransformed Columbia (Col) or C24 ecotypes. Seeds were sterilized, imbibed for 3 days, and germinated on vertically oriented plates containing 1 ⧸ 2 MS agar, 1% sucrose (pH 5.8) as described previously CITATION . Experiments were carried out on 5-day-old seedlings. For inhibitor treatments, per one well of a 24-well cell culture plate, 10–15 seedlings were incubated in 1 ml liquid medium (LM: 1 ⧸ 2 MS, 1% sucrose [pH 5.8]) containing the respective inhibitor or corresponding amounts of solvent. For recovery experiments, three 5-min LM washes were performed, and incubations continued under the conditions indicated. Incubations were stopped by fixation (see below). BFA was added from a 50 mM stock in dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO), cytD was added from a 25 mM stock in DMSO, and cycloheximide was added from a 50 mM stock in water. Inhibitors were purchased from Sigma. The data presented were reproduced in 3–10 independent experiments. The coding sequence for ARA6-GFP under control of the Cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and nopaline synthase terminator CITATION was excised with HindIII and EcoRI and was inserted into the corresponding sites of pBI121 (Clontech). The resulting vector was introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58C1. N -acetylglucosaminyl transferase I fused to fluorescent proteins has previously been employed as a Golgi marker CITATION . The sequence for the transmembrane-stem regions of Arabidopsis N -acetylglucosaminyl transferase I (NAG; GenBank accession number AJ243198 ; CITATION ) was amplified from root cDNA employing primers NAG - F -BglII, 5′-GGGAGATCTATGGCGAGGATCTCGTGTGACTTGA-3′, and NAG - R -XbaI, 5′-GGGTCTAGAAAGTTCTTCGTCCTGGCG-GTTCTTCA-3′. The product was subcloned into pBluescript II SK(-) (Stratagene) and was sequenced. The resulting BglII/XbaI fragment was inserted in frame to the N terminus of EGFP (Clontech) engineered in pGreenII0229 between the Cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and nopaline synthase terminator CITATION ( http://www.pgreen.ac.uk ). An N -ST-GFP construct CITATION was modified by exchanging the GFP sequence for YFP. The resulting vector was transformed into A. tumefaciens C58 (GV3101) and was kindly made available by M. Batoko and I.A. Moore (Oxford, UK). Constructs were introduced into Arabidopsis plants ecotype Col by Agrobacterium -mediated transformation CITATION . Analyses were performed on segregating T2 lines or homozygote T3 lines from several independent transformants. No obvious differences in colabeling between filipin and GFP fusion proteins expressed in the heterozygote or homozygote situation were observed. A microwave-accelerated staining and fixation protocol for plant F-actin CITATION was modified for detection of filipin-sterol fluorescence. Seedlings were transferred to 4% paraformaldehyde (PFA), 0.1–0.2 mg/ml filipin III (Sigma) (from a 10–20 mg/ml stock in DMSO) in microtubule-stabilizing buffer (MTSB: 50 mM Pipes, 5 mM EGTA, 5 mM MgSO 4 [pH 7.0]) CITATION in a final volume of 500 μl. Samples were placed into an M959 conventional microwave oven (Samsung) and were pulsed six times for 30 s at 90 W; there was a 1-min pause in between intervals. Under these conditions, the sample temperature did not exceed 35°C–40°C. Sample staining/fixation was extended to 1 hr at room temperature. Specimens were washed three times in demineralized water (demin H 2 O), and roots were mounted in Citifluor AF1 antifade reagent (Citifluor) for observation by confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM). Immunofluorescence localization CITATION was modified for concomitant antibody staining and sterol visualization by replacing the detergent with filipin. For details on filipin-sterol/antibody immunocytochemistry, see the Supplemental Data. FRAP analysis of GFP fusions was performed by employing a Leica TCS SP2 system attached to a Leica DM IRB inverted confocal microscope (Leica) using the 488 nm line of an Ar/Kr laser (see the Supplemental Data for details). Arabidopsis seedlings expressing GFP or YFP fusion proteins and nontransformed seedlings were incubated with 50 μM FM4-64 (Molecular Probes) and/or 20 μg/ml filipin III in LM for 10 min on ice, washed twice with medium, incubated for indicated periods at room temperature, and observed by CLSM and/or two-photon LSM. See the Supplemental Data for methodological details on CLSM, two-photon LSM, and electron microscopy. Supplemental Data including detailed Experimental Procedures, additional references, and two figures accompanies the on-line version of this article at http://www.current-biology.com/cgi/content/full/13/16/1378/DC1/ .
