!~ABS~! Key components of the ascorbate-glutathione cycle in Arabidopsis cell organelles are encoded by single organellar targeted isoforms that are dual localized in the chloroplast stroma and the mitochondrion. We demonstrate the presence of the ascorbate-glutathione cycle in purified Arabidopsis mitochondria using enzymatic activity, proteomic and in vitro and in vivo subcellular targeting data that identify the gene products responsible. In vitro experiments using a dual import assay assessing mitochondrial and chloroplast imports simultaneously show dual targeting of ascorbate peroxidase, monodehydroascorbate reductase, and glutathione reductase gene products to mitochondria and chloroplasts, while a putative dehydroascorbate reductase protein is only imported into mitochondria. In vivo subcellular localization using green fluorescent protein fusion proteins show clear targeting of all gene products to mitochondria. Transcript levels show these genes are induced by oxidative chemical stresses targeted to chloroplasts and/or mitochondria and are elevated during photosynthetic operation in the light. Together these data present a model of an integrated ascorbate-glutathione antioxidant defense common to plastids and mitochondria that is linked at the level of the genome in Arabidopsis. 
!~RES~! Asc-glutathione Cycle Enzyme Activities in Arabidopsis Mitochondria: Latency and Subcompartmentalization—Measurement of APX, GR, DHAR, and MDHAR activities revealed that each could be detected in Arabidopsis mitochondria (Table I). The two-Percoll gradient method for the high purity separation of mitochondria from plastid and peroxisomes, yields mitochondria only contaminated 1.5% by plastids, and essentially free from peroxisomal and cytosolic compartments, based on marker enzymes (CITATION). Maximal activities for each enzyme of the Asc-glutathione cycle measured in the presence of 0.05% Triton X-100 (Table 1A) were 2–5-fold lower than those reported in mitochondrial preparations from other plant species (CITATION, CITATION), but were clearly measurable above background levels of auto-oxidation. The latency of these activities suggested that GR and MDHAR activities were largely inaccessible in intact mitochondria, indicating a matrix location. In contrast more than half the APX and DHAR activities could be assayed by provision of substrates to intact mitochondria, indicating a significant portion of activity is probably on the intermembrane space side of the mitochondrial inner membrane (Table 1A). Under the same conditions, cytochrome c oxidase latency was in excess of 95%, proving a high degree of membrane integrity in our mitochondrial preparations. To further assess compartmentation of these activities, fractions enriched in matrix proteins (MA), intermembrane space and outer membrane vesicle proteins (IMS + OM) and inner membrane proteins (IM) were prepared by osmotic stock and centrifugation. Contamination between compartments prepared by this protocol are <5% for the MA and IM samples, and about 25% MA and <5% IM in the IMS + OM fraction (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). The IMS + OM fraction represented 10%, the matrix sample 40% and the membrane fraction 50% of total mitochondrial protein. Based on these proportions, the distribution of activity between the fractions is presented as a percentage of total activity in mitochondria (Table 1B). By comparing the combined activities rate (Table 1B) with the +Triton solubilization data (Table 1A), the percentage activity recovery (70–110%) during this subfractionation process was determined to be consistent. Nearly 90% of the APX and MDHAR activities were present in the inner membrane fraction, with about 10% in the matrix fraction. The low latency of APX (Table 1A) coupled to the subfractionation data for this enzyme (Table 1B) suggests that much of this activity is likely to be on the IMS side of the inner membrane. In contrast, the high latency of MDHAR (Table 1A) coupled to subfractionation data (Table 1B) suggests a predominantly matrix side localization. The GR and DHAR activities predominate in the matrix, but are also found in the other fractions, suggesting they are partitioned between compartments and can be partially membrane associated. These data are consistent with the view that the majority of the APX faces the outside of the inner membrane, while an Asc-glutathione generating system (MDHAR, DHAR, GR) operates in the matrix and to a lesser extent in the IMS to regenerate Asc.  [[TABLE]]  Small Gene Families Exist for Each Enzyme of the Ascglutathione Cycle in Arabidopsis—To determine which Arabidopsis genes encoded the proteins responsible for these enzymatic activities (Table I), the Arabidopsis-predicted protein set from v3.0 of The Institute for Genomic Research (TIGR) genome annotation was searched by description to identify genes encoding the enzymes of the Asc-glutathione cycle (Table II). These protein sequences were then used in BLAST analysis of the protein data set to identify unannotated protein sequences with significant similarity to suggest they also represented members of these gene families. This analysis revealed there are likely 9 APX genes, 5 MDHAR genes, 5 DHAR genes, and 2 GR genes in Arabidopsis. Further, there is an extensive set of glutaredoxins (GDXN) that are likely to catalyze DHAR activities in Arabidopsis (full data not shown in Table II). DHAR activities purified from mammalian tissues are found to be GDXN (CITATION, CITATION), the mammalian mitochondrial GDXN has DHAR activity (CITATION) and DHAR activity of plant GDXNs is widely reported (CITATION). All of these genes, except the APX At1g43220, were represented in EST databases at the time of this analysis, suggesting they are all expressed genes (Table II).  [[TABLE]]  Predicted Organelle Targeting of Asc-glutathione Cycle Gene Products—A simple comparison of apparent molecular masses of each predicted gene product within a family suggests that different classes of each protein are represented and that some have N- or C-terminal extensions that may represent targeting information for localization within the cell (Table II). Analysis of the predicted targeting of each gene product for APX, MDHAR, DAHR, and GR by three targeting prediction programs is presented in Table II. Based on the predictions by each program we have made a consensus prediction for each product as organellar targeted, cytosolic, or unclear (–). From this analysis we predict that only 6 of the 21 genes encode proteins that are likely to be organellar-targeted. In the case of MDHAR, GR, and the classical DHAR family, only one gene product of each class has a clearly predicted organelle-targeting presequence (Table II). The three organellar APXs have already been assigned to chloroplast locations in the lumen (At4g09010), thylakoid membrane (At1g77490) and the stroma (At4g08390) (CITATION). The organellar GR and MDHAR are also assigned as the main chloroplast isoforms in Arabidopsis (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). A GDXN with strong mitochondrial targeting prediction is also included in Table II.  Proteomic Evidence for Presence of Proteins in Mitochondria—We have also been undertaking a comprehensive program of Arabidopsis mitochondrial proteome analysis (CITATION, CITATION) using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and direct analysis of whole mitochondrial trypsin digestions. During this analysis peptides have been identified for several Asc-glutathione cycle enzymes that are present in purified mitochondria isolated from Arabidopsis cell culture (Table I). A set of 3 peptides match to APX At4g08390, a series of 4 peptides match to the MDHAR At1g63940, one peptide from the GR At3g54660 has been identified, one peptide from the DHAR At1g19570 and a set of 3 peptides matched to a GDXN At3g15660 (Table III). Matching of these peptides by ProID software against the full Arabidopsis protein set proved that these identifications were highly significant with most scores of greater than 90 for matches of MS/MS spectra and delta masses of <0.1 Da for matches of the parent peptides masses to predicted peptide masses of the matched proteins. Thus with the exception of DHAR At1g19570, the proteins detected by proteomic analysis are all predicted to be organelle-located.  [[TABLE]]  Dual Targeting of APX, MDHAR, and GR Precursor Proteins to Chloroplasts and Mitochondria—Using the bioinformatic and proteomic analysis we decided that the most likely candidates for mitochondrial-targeted proteins were APX At4g08390, MDHAR At1g63940, and GR At3g54660. The situation with DHAR was not clear, as proteomic data pointed to either At1g19570 or the GDXN At3g15660, while targeting predictions pointed to At5g16710. To further resolve this situation all three proteins were used for import studies, further, the only other DHAR significantly expressed, At1g75270, was also included for completeness.  To ensure that import, rather than simply association of proteins with organelles was occurring, a dual import system established in our laboratory (CITATION) was utilized for import of in vitro synthesized [35S]methionine-labeled precursors of the test proteins and two control proteins (Fig. 1A). Assessing the import properties of APX At4g08390, MDHAR At1g63940, and GR At3g54660 using this system indicated that they were all imported and cleaved to a mature product in both chloroplasts and mitochondria. The mature products were protected from digestion by addition of thermolysin. In the case of APX there was an additional methionine residue 25 residues from the initiator methionine that resulted in an additional band upon translation. In order to determine which protein was dual targeted we removed the first and second methionines independently. Removal of the first methionine (APXΔM1) resulted in a single precursor protein that was still dual targeted (Fig. 1A). In contrast changing methionine 2 to an isoleucine residue resulted in targeting only to mitochondria (see Supplementary Materials). Mitochondrial import of APX, MDHAR, and GR proteins were not completely valinomycin sensitive, and remained protease protected (Fig. 1A). This suggests that a proportion of these proteins were not crossing the inner membrane. Such an observation is consistent with the earlier reports of partitioning of these enzyme activities between the IMS and MA fractions for MDHAR and GR, and the low latency of APX activity that suggested an outer face of the inner membrane orientation (Table I). To determine intraorganellar localization, imports into mitochondria were repeated and subsequent IMS-depletion (rupturing the outer membrane and removing the IMS) allowed assessment of the proportion of each imported protein that was accessible to protease in the IMS (Fig. 1B). AOX and TIM23 were used as controls to monitor the activity of proteases. AOX is an interfacial membrane protein that is not exposed to the IMS (CITATION), and thus should remain fully protected when the outer membrane is ruptured. TIM23 is an inner membrane space protein with the N and C termini in the IMS. Upon rupture of the outer membrane and protease treatment the IMS domains are digested but the membrane portions are protected (CITATION). This results in a shift in apparent molecular mass on SDS-PAGE and confirms that the added protease is active in digesting IMS located proteins. Upon rupture of the outer membrane these controls show that while AOX is fully protected, TIM23 is fully converted to a lower molecular mass (Fig. 1B). Upon rupture and salt washing of mitochondria imported APX protein was completely lost even without protease treatment indicating that it was removed in this treatment (Fig. 1B, lane 4). We have previously reported that this washing procedure also removed cytochrome c from the inner membrane (CITATION, CITATION). Imported MDHAR and GR mature proteins were partially resistant to proteolysis in mitoplasts further supporting a direct partitioning of these products between the IMS and the matrix spaces during import. These Arabidopsis proteins could also be imported into mitochondria from Arabidopsis cell culture. In each case the same pattern of import was observed into Arabidopsis mitochondria (Fig. 1C) as had been seen in soybean mitochondria (Fig. 1A).  [[FIGURE]]  The DHAR At1g75270 and At1g19570 were not cleaved to a mature product after incubation with either organelle and were resistant to all the proteases tested in the presence and absence of organelles, thus protease protection of these proteins could not be assessed to determine if import was occurring (data not shown). The DHAR At5g16710, predicted to be the main organellar targeted form in Arabidopsis (Table II), did not appear to be imported into either chloroplasts or mitochondria in vitro (data not shown). The GDXN At3g15660 was clearly imported and cleaved in mitochondria in a valinomycin-sensitive manner, but was not imported into chloroplasts (Fig. 1A).  Additionally, we have also conducted in vivo subcellular localization experiments using full-length APXΔ M1, MDHAR, GR, and GDXN fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP). Constructs were introduced by biolistic transformation into non-green plant cell cultures and fluorescence observed (Fig. 2). Non-green cultures were used as green plant material yields high chloroplast autofluorescence and chloroplast-targeted proteins were likely to obscure subtle co-targeting to mitochondria. We used the soybean AOX presequence fused to GFP as a mitochondrial control and Arabidopsis TOC64 fused to GFP as a plastid control. The AOX control produced the expected pattern for mitochondria, reticulate, punctate spots less than 1 μm in size. The TOC64 control produced a plastid pattern of oval and rounded shapes of ∼5 μm in diameter. Fusion of the full-length protein for APXΔ M1, MDHAR, GR, and GDXN to GFP all produced patterns that indicated mitochondrial targeting. However only GR displayed a pattern that also indicated plastid targeting. Thus under the conditions used we could definitely confirm a mitochondrial location for all four proteins using GFP as a marker for in vivo subcellular localization.  [[FIGURE]]  Transcript Abundances and Gene Regulation—Comparison of transcript abundance in leaves and roots revealed that all five Asc-glutathione cycle genes were expressed well in both tissue types (Fig. 3). In contrast, nuclear-encoded ribosomal transcripts for the plastidial rps1 dominated in leaves, while transcripts for the nuclear-encoded mitochondrial rps13 were more evenly distributed. These data provide further evidence that this set of organellar-targeting gene products are unlikely to be destined for photosynthetic roles in leaf tissue alone but rather are being synthesized in both root and shoot tissue, consistent with a dual location in chloroplasts and mitochondria.  [[FIGURE]]  Further assessment of gene expression was undertaken during oxidative stress treatments (Fig. 4). A wide variety of stress conditions and photosynthetic operation are known to induce transcripts of the cytosolic and chloroplast enzymes of the Asc-glutathione cycle in plants (CITATION, CITATION–CITATION). When we recorded transcript abundances in light grown and dark-adapted leaves, a 2–6-fold increase in the light in 4 of 5 transcripts was revealed. Notably, GDXN, the only transcript not considered to be multitargeted, is the only transcript that does not respond to light/dark changes. Transcript changes induced by specific chemical stresses in lighted leaves were then assessed. Norflurazon and paraquat are both capable of inducing chloroplast oxidative stress, by inhibiting carotenoid synthesis and by acting as an artificial electron acceptor from photosystem I, respectively. Menadione leads to oxygen activation and lipid peroxidation generally in membranes of the cell acting as a quinone-like analogue in one-electron donation reactions. Antimycin A is a specific inhibitor of complex III in the inner mitochondrial membrane and induces superoxide formation from a highly reduced ubiquinone pool in vitro and in vivo. The significant transcript fold changes induced by treatments (Fig. 4, asterisks) reveal that both plastidial and mitochondrial targeted stresses induce the MDHAR, GR and DHAR/GDXN transcripts. APX was not readily inducible by chemical stresses. Overall norflurazon and menadione yielded a later response peaking >6 h, while antimycin A and paraquat yielded more rapid changes in transcript abundance. However, even within a stress, some transcript responses were rapid (∼1 h) and had abated to near control levels by 6 h (such as MDHAR and GR with paraquat) while other transcripts were still increasing at 6 h (notably DHAR with paraquat). This complexity of response magnitude and timing hints at further levels of control on this antioxidant cycle, but its dual response to functional stresses emanating from the two organelles reveals a coordination of response consistent with transcriptional regulation of this gene set.  [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! Plant Materials—Soybean (Glycine max [L] Merr. cv. Stevens) and pea (Pisum sativum [L] Greenfeast) plants were grown in an environmentally controlled incubator at 28°C. The incubator was fitted with artificial lights of 600 μmol–2 s–1 set to a 16-h light and 8-h dark period. Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia (Arabidopsis) were grown at 22 °C under a 16-h light and 8-h dark period on solid Gamborg media.  Cloning and Expression Analysis of Genes—Total RNA was isolated from whole Arabidopsis plants and expression analyzed using quantatitive PCR as previously outlined (CITATION). The following PCR primers were used to clone the genes: AtAPX-fwd, 5′-ATGGCAGAGCGTGTGTCTC-3′; AtAPX-rev, 5′-TTAGATAACGATACCCTCC-3′; AtMDHAR-fwd, 5′-ATGTCTGCAGTTCGTAGAGTC-3′; AtMDHAR-rev, 5′-CTAACTCTGTAGAGCGGCTTG-3′; AtGR-fwd, 5′-ATGGCTTCGACCCCGAAGC-3′; AtGR-rev, 5′-CTACACCCCAGCAGCTG-3′; AtDHAR(At5g16710)-fwd, 5′-ATGATAAGCCTTAGGTTTCAACC-3′; AtDHAR(At5g16710)-rev, 5′-TTAACCCATAACCTTTGGTCTCC-3′; AtDHAR(At1g19570)-fwd, 5′-ATGGCTCTGGAAATCTGTGTG-3′; AtDHAR(At1g19570)-rev, 5′-TCAAGGGTTAACCTTGGGAGC-3′; AtDHAR(At1g75270)-fwd, 5′-ATGGCTCTAGATATCTGCGTG-3′; AtDHAR(At1g75270)-rev, 5′-TCACGCATTCACCTTCGATTC-3′; AtGDXN-fwd, 5′-ATGGCGGCTTCTTTATCGAGC-3′; AtGDXN-rev, 5′-TCAATCTTGGTTTCCGGAGAC-3′.  Primers used for real-time PCR analysis: LC-APX-fwd2, 5′-GCACCAGGAGGACAGTCATG-3′; LC-APX-rev2, 5′-GGGCTACAGCGTAATCCTTG-3′; LC-MDHAR-fwd, 5′-CCGGATTATCTCTTTGGTGTCC-3′; LC-MDHAR-rev, 5′-CATAGCCGACCATCAGCCATTC-3′; LC-GR-fwd, 5′-CTCCATTCTTTCAATTCCTCTG-3′; LC-GR-rev, 5′-GGTACTGGCACAAACAGAAAAC-3′; LC-DHAR-fwd, 5′-GGTTCGACTAAACCGGGAAG-3′; LC-DHAR-rev, 5′-CTGGGACTTTACCTTCTGGAC-3′; LC-GDXN-fwd, 5′-GATTGACGTCTGCATCAGTC-3′; LC-GDXN-rev, 5′-CACTGAGGAGATTCAGGGAC-3′.  Purification of Plant Mitochondria and Chloroplasts—Mitochondria were isolated from 7-day-old soybean cotyledons and chloroplasts from 10-day-old pea leaf tissue (CITATION–CITATION). Arabidopsis mitochondria were purified from dark grown cell culture according to Millar et al. (CITATION). Subfractionation of mitochondria to matrix, inner membrane, and intermembrane space/outer membrane fractions was performed according to Sweetlove et al. (CITATION). The mitochondrial protein concentrations were determined using the Coomassie Plus Protein Assay Reagent (Pierce) and the chloroplast chlorophyll concentrations by spectrophotometic measurements.  Assay of Asc-glutathione Cycle Enzymes—APX was measured as Asc oxidation by H2O2 at 290 nm (e = 2.8 mm–1 cm–1) in the presence of 0.2 mm Asc and 0.2 mm H2O2 (CITATION). GR was measured as NADPH oxidation at 340 nm in the presence of 0.2 mm NADPH and 0.5 mm oxidized glutathione (CITATION). MDHAR was measured as NADH oxidation at 340 nm of MDHA generated using the Asc/Asc oxidase system using 0.2 mm NADH, 1 mm Asc, and 1 unit of Asc oxidase (Cucurbita enzyme, EC 1.10.3.3, Sigma A0157). DHAR was measured as Asc formation at 265 nm (e = 14 mm–1 cm–1) in argon-flushed solution containing 0.2 mm reduced glutathione and 1 mm DHA (CITATION). For latency measurements, spectrophotometric assays were performed in a solution of 0.3 m mannitol and 25 mm TES (pH 7.5) with or without addition of 0.05% (w/v) Triton X-100. As both KCN and SHAM can inhibit some of these enzymes, alternative respiratory inhibitors (50 μm nPG and 5 μm myxothiazol) were incorporated to prevent electron transport chain NAD(P)H oxidation interfering with spectrophotometric assays of enzymes in the absence of Triton X-100. For assays in subfractions from mitochondria samples, assays were performed in a solution of 0.05% (w/v) Triton and 25 mm TES (pH 7.5).  Synthesis and in Vitro Import of Precursor Proteins—Precursor proteins for soybean alternative oxidase (AOX) (CITATION), pea small subunit of ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (SSU) (CITATION), Arabidopsis Tim23 (CITATION), APX, MDHAR, GR, DHAR, and GDXN were synthesized using the TnT® in vitro coupled transcription/translation reticulocyte lysate system (Promega, Madison, WI) in the presence of [35S]methionine. Mutants were created using the QuikChange™ Site-directed Mutagenesis kit (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA) and confirmed by sequencing. Import experiments using the dual import system were carried out as previously described (CITATION). Following import into soybean mitochondria, IMS depletion was carried out by resuspending the mitochondria in a hypotonic osmoticum solution (CITATION). Imported products were resolved by SDS-PAGE and subsequently exposed to a BAS TR2040 phosphorimaging plate (Fuji, Tokyo).  Proteomic Analysis of Mitochondrial Proteins by Mass Spectrometry—Q-TOF MS/MS was performed on an Applied Biosystems Q-STAR Pulsar (Q-TOF MS) using an IonSpray source. Proteins to be analyzed were cut from the two-dimensional PAGE gel, dried at 50 °C in a dry block heater and stored at –70 °C. For the sequencing analysis, the proteins were digested with trypsin, injected in 50% acetonitrile, and doubly charged peptides fragmented by N2 collision and analyzed by MS/MS were selected (CITATION). Mass spectra and collision MS/MS data were analyzed with BioAnalyst software (Applied Biosystems, Sydney) and Mascot (Matrix Science, London) to identify matching Arabidopsis protein entries.  Targeting Prediction Analysis of Arabidopsis Gene Families—Subcellular targeting of predicted protein sequences were performed with MitoProtII (www.mips.biochem.mpg.de/cgi-bin/proj/medgen/mitofilter), TargetP (www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/) as directed by and by Predotar (www.inra.fr/Internet/Produits/Predotar/) as directed on this website.  Oxidative Stress Treatments of Arabidopsis—Prior to RNA isolation, 17-day-old Arabidopsis plants were each treated with one of four different chemicals: 0.1 mm Solicam® DF Herbicide (here referred to as norflurazon) (Novartis Crop Protection Australasia Ltd., NSW), 1 mm menadione (Sigma, Castle Hill), 662.5 mg/liter Tryquat 200 (a commercially available herbicide combination of 437.5 mg/L paraquat and 225 mg/liter diquat, here referred to as paraquat) (Crop Care Australasia Pty Ltd., Pinkenba, Australia) and 25 μm antimycin A. Chemicals (or water for control plants) were painted onto Arabidopsis using a paintbrush and leaf tissue was harvested 1 h and 6 h following treatment. Two independent RNA isolations were carried out on harvested leaves using the RNeasy Plant Mini kit (Qiagen, Clifton Hill).  Transient Expression of GFP Constructs in Vivo—The expression cassette containing the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter, Arabidopsis ER chitinase signal peptide, m-gfp5 and the nopaline synthase terminator was amplified by PCR using plasmid pBIN m-gfp5-ER as a template and primers CaMV35S 5′ F (5′-CGCAAGCTTCATGGAGTCAAAGATTC-3′) and Nos term 3′-R (5′-CCGATCTAGTAACATAG-3′). The PCR product was cloned into a pGEM®-T cloning vector (Promega, Melbourne), generating construct pGEMGFP. The sequence corresponding to the AOX presequence, full-length TOC64, APX, MDHAR, GR, and GDXN was amplified with appropriate restriction sites by PCR using plasmid DNA as templates and primers listed as follows: AOXp(BamHI)-fwd, 5′-CGTACGGATCCAACAATGATGATGATGATGAGCC-3′; AOXp(EcoRI)-rev, 5′-GTACGAATTCACTCCTCACACCACCGCC-3′; TOC64(BamHI)-fwd, 5′-CGTACGGATCCAACAATGGCGTCTCAAGCTGCG-3′; TOC64(EcoRI)-rev, 5′-GTACGAATTCCTGGAATTTTCTCAGTCTCTC-3′; APΔ M1(BamHI)-fwd, 5′-CGTACGGATCCAACAATGTCTTCTTCTCTCCGATC-3′; APΔ M1(EcoRI)-rev, 5′-GTACGAATTCGATAACGATACCCTCCGG-3′; MDHAR(BamHI)-fwd, 5′-CGTACGGATCCAACAATGTCTGCAGTTCGTAGAG-3′; MDHAR(EcoRI)-rev, 5′-GTACGAATTCACTCTGTAGAGCGGCTTG-3′; GR(BamHI)-fwd, 5′-CGTACGGATCCAACAATGGCTTCGACCCCGAAG-3′; GR(EcoRI)-rev, 5′-GTACGAATTCCACCCCAGCAGCTGTTTTAGC-3′; GDXN(BamHI)-fwd, 5′-CGTACGGATCCAACAATGGCGGCTTCTTTATCG-3′; GDXN-(EcoRI)-rev, 5′-GTACGAATTCATCTTGGTTTCCGGAGAC-3′.  The ER signal peptide sequence was removed from the pGEMGFP construct by restriction digestion, PCR products were cloned upstream and in-frame of the m-gfp5 gene and verified by sequencing.  Suspension cells developed from soybean (Glycine max cv. Stevens) leaf tissue were grown in 250 ml flasks containing Gamborg media agitated at 130 rpm under approx. 20 μEm–2 s–1 light at 28 °C. The cell stocks were maintained in an exponential growth phase by subculturing (1:6 dilution) at 7-day intervals. For transient expression analysis, 7-day-old soybean suspension cells were aseptically coated onto filter paper (Whatman No. 1 55 mm diameter, Maidstone, England), which was then placed onto solid media containing soybean culture media supplemented with 200 mm mannitol, and incubated for 2 h at 28 °C in the dark. Prior to transformation, 10 μg of the pGEMGFP construct was precipitated onto 5 mg of 1 μm (average diameter) gold particles (Chempur, Karlsruhe, Germany) using 2.5 mm CaCl2 (Sigma, Castle Hill) and 100 mm Spermidine (Sigma, Castle Hill). Bombardment of soybean suspension cells using 0.5 mg of particles was carried out under vacuum using helium pressure of 1400 kPa. The cells were then incubated at 28 °C in the dark overnight before detection of GFP using fluorescence microscopy (Axioskop2, Zeiss, Germany). 
