!~ABS~! The eukaryotic nucleus has been proposed to be organized by two interdependent nucleoprotein structures, the DNA‐based chromatin and the RNA‐dependent nuclear matrix. The functional composition and molecular organization of the second component have not yet been resolved. Here, we describe the isolation of the nuclear matrix from the model plant Arabidopsis, its initial characterization by confocal and electron microscopy, and the identification of 36 proteins by mass spectrometry. Electron microscopy of resinless samples confirmed a structure very similar to that described for the animal nuclear matrix. Two‐dimensional gel electrophoresis resolved approximately 300 protein spots. Proteins were identified in batches by ESI tandem mass spectrometry after resolution by 1D SDS–PAGE. Among the identified proteins were a number of demonstrated or predicted Arabidopsis homologs of nucleolar proteins such as IMP4, Nop56, Nop58, fibrillarins, nucleolin, as well as ribosomal components and a putative histone deacetylase. Others included homologs of eEF‐1, HSP/HSC70, and DnaJ, which have also been identified in the nucleolus or nuclear matrix of human cells, as well as a number of novel proteins with unknown function. This study is the first proteomic approach towards the characterization of a higher plant nuclear matrix. It demonstrates the striking similarities both in structure and protein composition of the operationally defined nuclear matrix across kingdoms whose unicellular ancestors have separated more than one billion years ago. J. Cell. Biochem. 90: 361–378, 2003. © 2003 Wiley‐Liss, Inc. 
!~RES~! To isolate the nuclear matrix fraction from Arabidopsis suspension culture cells, we adopted the protocol of Mirkovitch et al. [1984], modified later for tobacco cells [Hall et al., 1991]. This protocol exploits the lithium 3,5‐diiodosalycylate and digitonin extraction of chromatin proteins. Its main advantage over high‐salt extraction of chromatin proteins is a lower risk of artifactual NaCl‐induced precipitation of nuclear proteins [Pederson, 2000]. However, the ultrastructures revealed by both methods show a marked similarity in the underlying network of branched 10 nm filaments [Nickerson, 2001].  The isolation procedure was monitored by brightfield and fluorescent microscopy (Fig. 1). Propidium iodide (PI) staining was used to monitor the presence of nucleic acids and DAPI staining to distinguish between DNA and RNA. Nuclear matrices showed significant reduction of DAPI fluorescence (Fig. 1K,L), indicating the successful removal of genomic DNA. The remaining propidium iodide fluorescence was concentrated in the nucleolar matrix (Fig. 1I,J), likely corresponding to RNA.  [[FIGURE]] Resinless section electron microscopy was used to determine the ultrastructural appearance of the material (Fig. 2). The structures showed a network of fibers, well distributed through the entire body of the nuclear matrix, and connected to the nucleolar matrix. At higher magnification (Fig. 2B) the fibers of the nuclear matrix appear of different diameter, and are covered in multiple protrusions (“knobby” appearance, arrows). In a number of regions a more dense fibrillonuclear network can be seen (Fig. 2C, pointed bracket), intermixed with regions of a more loose organization (Fig. 2C, blunt bracket). Together, the ultrastructure of the isolated Arabidopsis nuclear matrix closely resembles that described from other organisms [Belgrader et al., 1991; Nickerson et al., 1997; Yu and Moreno Diaz de la Espina, 1999].  [[FIGURE]] The protein profile of the Arabidopsis nuclear matrix was compared to whole nuclei by 1D SDS–PAGE (Fig. 3A). The bands corresponding to the core histones and histone H1 are absent from the nuclear matrix fraction, indicating the proper extraction of soluble and chromatin‐bound proteins. Most nuclear matrix proteins appear in the size range from 20 to 100 kDa. An antiserum against a nuclear matrix‐associated protein from tomato (LeNMP1) [Rose et al., 2003] detects a single protein of the expected size 36 kDa, which is retained in the nuclear matrix fraction (Fig. 3B). As a negative control to eliminate the possibility of contamination, we used an antiserum against α‐sulfite reductase, a protein located in chloroplasts [Chi‐Ham et al., 2002]. Even though it detected a protein of the correct size (70 kDa) in both the Arabidopsis whole cell extract and a chloroplast preparation, it did not detect this protein in both nuclei and the nuclear matrix fraction (results not shown).  [[FIGURE]] The nuclear matrix is, by definition, highly insoluble. We developed a solubilization protocol compatible with isoelectric focussing (see “Materials and Methods”) and resolved a sample by 2D‐PAGE (Fig. 4). In total, 365 individual spots could be identified after image enhancement with the PDQuest computer program (BioRad, Hercules, CA, Fig. 4C), confirming the expected complexity of this nuclear fraction. The most abundant proteins were found predominantly in the range of pI 4.8–pI 7.5, and of 20–100 kDa, as shown in the insets in Figure 4B. Figure 4D shows an immunoblot with the anti‐LeNMP1 antibody, confirming the presence of this protein in the analyzed fraction. After detection, a stronger signal likely to correspond to the main protein isoform and a weaker signal shifted towards the basic region of the gel could be seen. Because tomato NMP1 was shown to contain six predicted protein kinase CKII phosphorylation sites [Rose et al., 2003], it is possible that this electrophoretic behavior indicates the existence of phosphorylated variants of this protein within the context of the A. thaliana nuclear matrix. Additional experiments might pinpoint the actual sites for phosphorylation and the kinase responsible for this potential activity.  [[FIGURE]] Three of the most abundant protein spots were selected for coring from a corresponding Coomassie‐stained 2D gel (spots C1, D2, and F2 in Fig. 4B,C), resulting in the identification of five proteins (Table I).  Because identification of proteins from 2D‐PAGE is biased towards soluble proteins, samples for protein identification were instead resolved on 1D SDS–polyacrylamide gels. The gels were stained with Coomassie blue, and seven sections were excised (Fig. 3B) and submitted for electrospray‐ionization tandem mass spectrometry (ESI–MS/MS) analysis. This analysis was repeated two to four times per gel section.  Data obtained by ESI–MS/MS were analyzed with Mascot or Sonar software and hits with a significant Mascot (Mowse) or Sonar score are listed in Table II. The number of peptides identified for each protein varied between 1 and 16. For proteins with a single peptide hit, the run was repeated with a different nuclear matrix sample, but the same peptide was found in the second MS/MS analysis.  We analyzed the predicted subcellular localization of the proteins listed in Table I and II by using a number of protein‐localization prediction algorithms (see “Materials and Methods”). Based on this analysis and the functional annotation of the polypeptides, the identified proteins were sorted into five groups: Proteins predicted to reside in the nucleoplasm, the nucleolus, the cytoplasm, proteins of unclear localization, and the proteins predicted to be located in other subcellular compartments (chloroplasts or mitochondria).  A protein was defined as nuclear if it contained a sequence experimentally verified as NLS or scored positive for nuclear localization by PSORT and Protcomp, or had been annotated as the Arabidopsis homologue of a nuclear protein. Four nuclear, non‐nucleolar proteins were identified. Besides histone H2B, presumably present as a not‐extracted remnant of the chromatin fraction, three novel proteins with unknown or putative functions were identified (Table I and II). Sixteen proteins were identified that were predicted to have a nucleolar function. The nucleolar proteins were consistently identified with highest confidence based on Mascot Mowse scores and numbers of peptides, indicating their relative high abundance in the nuclear matrix fraction.  Many of the identified nucleolar proteins are homologues of proteins associated with snoRNP (small nucleolar ribonucleoprotein) complexes, such as the U3 snRNP protein IMP4, members of the Nop1/fibrillarin group, and a group of proteins homologous to Nop58p and Nop56p [Pih et al., 2000; Brown et al., 2003]. Two members of the Nop56/Nop58 family have previously been shown to be Matrix‐attachment‐region (MAR)‐binding proteins forming part of the nuclear matrix in pea [Hatton and Gray, 1999]. Fibrillarin functions as an essential protein required for rRNA methylation, pre‐rRNA cleavages and ribosome assembly [Venema and Tollervey, 1999; Fatica and Tollervey, 2002; Brown et al., 2003]. Nop56p and Nop58p form a core complex with Nop1p/fibrillarin, which is able to interact with small ribonucleolar RNAs within the context of C/D box snoRNPs [reviewed in Filipowicz and Pogacic, 2000; Brown et al., 2003]. IMP4 is involved in ribosomal RNA processing and was found in Arabidopsis both in the nucleoli and the associated Cajal bodies [Brown et al., 2003].  In addition to these proteins, a group of nucleolar proteins engaged in other functions has been identified. They include nucleolin, a ubiquitous MAR‐binding nucleolar protein [Martin et al., 1992; Dickinson and Kohwi‐Shigematsu, 1995]. This finding confirms molecularly previous reports by immunocytochemistry of nucleolin in the plant (onion) nucleolar matrix [Minguez and Moreno Diaz de la Espina, 1996].  Other putative nucleolar proteins included the ribosomal proteins L7, L5, and L18 [Fatica and Tollervey, 2002] and a protein highly homologous to the maize nucleolar HD2‐p39‐type histone deacetylase [Lusser et al., 1997]. In addition, an unknown protein was detected (AAM61154), which has a 41% amino acid identity (55% similarity) to the human nucleolar and coiled‐body phosphoprotein 130 (Nopp140). Nopp140 functions in nucleologenesis, and may play a role in the maintenance of the dense fibrillar component in the nucleolus [Pai et al., 1995; Chen et al., 1999].  The third general class of proteins is composed of those predicted to be cytoplasmic. It is possible that some proteins of this class represent cytoplasmic contaminants, however, their true subcellular location will have to be determined experimentally. The major proteins in this group were identified several times, both by ESI MS/MS and by MALDI–TOF, and found to have very high Mascot Mowse scores, indicating that they are abundant proteins in the fraction.  The most prominent proteins of this group were two putative S‐adenosylmethionine synthases (SAM synthase). SAM synthase catalyses the conversion of ATP and l‐methionine into S‐adenosyl‐l‐methionie (SAM). SAM functions as a methyl group donor for various transmethylation reactions and as a cofactor in metabolic reactions [Tabor and Tabor, 1984].  In addition, a number of α‐ and β‐tubulins were identified. It cannot be ruled out that the tubulin components co‐purified as cytoplasmic inclusions, especially since in animal apoptotic cells they have also been found to co‐isolate with nuclear fractions, likely as a result of the tubulin network collapsing towards the nuclear surface [Gerner et al., 2002]. Other proteins in this group were F12M16.28, homologous to an ABC‐transporter protein and a homologue of the co‐chaperone DnaJ (S71199).  The fourth class includes the proteins with unclear predicted localization. The proteins of this group included a homologue of translation elongation factor eEF‐1 and the heat shock protein At‐hsc70‐3, which is predicted to be localized in the cytoplasm, but also contains consensus sequences for nuclear targeting [Lin et al., 2001]. Among other proteins found in the Arabidopsis nuclear matrix was an unknown protein AAM65678, which shares 55% identity and 75% similarity on the amino acid level with the mouse hypothetical protein MGC27952 (NP_705820.1). Another identified protein was the putative protein NP_568534 with 32% amino acid identity to a mouse protein containing a basic leucine zipper and W2 domain 2 (locus AAH13060), a protein‐protein interaction domain found in several translation elongation factors.  Finally, chloroplast translation elongation factor EF‐Tu, an adenylate translocator (NP_187470), and an ADP, ATP carrier protein (S29852) were identified. They are predicted to be located in the chloroplast or mitochondria, and therefore most likely represent contamination of the nuclear matrix preparation with these organelles.  Figure 5 shows the predicted subcellular localization and functional annotation of all identified proteins.  [[FIGURE]] Proteins with unknown or unclear function were searched for coiled‐coil domains, which are found in filamentous nuclear proteins, such as lamins or NuMA [Lydersen and Petijohn, 1980]. We found four proteins containing coil‐coiled motifs (AAM61154, BAA95721, NP_176007, and NP_566231), but only AAM61154 has a coil‐coiled motif of sufficient length (amino acids 31–212, encompassing two‐thirds of the protein) to predict a possible structural function. 
!~MM~! Arabidopsis suspension‐cultured cells were grown in 50 ml of Gamborg B5 medium (Sigma, St. Louis, MO) supplemented with 1.1 mg/L 2,4‐D and 0.5 g/L MES at 22°C under continuous fluorescent white light (60 µmol m2 · s1). Cells were subcultured every 7 days at a 10‐fold dilution with fresh medium.  Arabidopsis nuclei and nuclear matrices (NM) were isolated essentially as described [Hall et al., 1991], except that the halos were digested with RNase‐free DNaseI (GibcoBRL, Rockville, MD) instead of restriction enzymes. For 1D SDS–PAGE, NM aliquots were centrifuged and the pellets resuspended in sample solubilization buffer (2% SDS, 50 mM Tris, pH 7.6; 30% glycerol) and boiled for 10 min. Protein gels were stained with Coomassie Brilliant Blue R‐250 stain (Sigma).  Immunoblots were performed essentially as described [Gindullis and Meier, 1999; Rose et al., 2003]. A dilution of 1:3,000 of anti‐LeNMP1 and of 1:10,000 for horseradish peroxidase‐coupled donkey anti‐rabbit secondary antibody were used, and detection was performed by the enhanced chemiluminescent method as described by the manufacturer (Amersham Biosciences, Piscataway, NJ).  For two‐dimensional (2D) electrophoresis, 10 nM aliquots were pooled (equal to 1 nuclear aliquot, approximately 75 μg of protein), centrifuged, and the pellet was washed once with water, followed by the primary solubilization in SDS‐sample buffer (2% SDS, 50 mM Tris, pH 7.6) at 100°C for 5 min. A trichloroacetic acid precipitation (10% trichloroacetic acid in acetone) at −20°C for 1.5 h was followed by two 100% acetone washes, air‐drying and resolubilization in 2D urea buffer (7 M urea, 2 M thiourea, 2% (w/v) CHAPS (Sigma), 2% (w/v) SB3–10 (Sigma), 0.2% (v/v) amphylites 3–10 (BioRad, Hercules, CA), 0.5 mM β‐mercaptoethanol) for 1 h at 30°C. The supernatant was saved, and the pellet was resolubilized again with the same buffer for 15 min at 37°C. Both supernatants were pooled in the final volume of 100 μl. The first dimension was run on a Protean IEF Cell (350 V for loading, 2.5 h of a linear ramp to 8,000 V, focusing for 30,000 V·h at 8,000 V). The second dimension was resolved in a Criterion Cell (BioRad) with running buffer 1 × TGS, at 200 V for 1 h (200 V·h total run). Gels were stained with SyproRuby (for visualization of faint spots), or Coomassie Brilliant Blue (for coring spots for mass spectrometry).  For the in‐gel trypsin digestion of proteins excised as Coomassie‐stained bands from the 1D‐SDS polyacrylamide gels, and as spots from the 2D‐SDS polyacrylamide gels, the Montage In‐Gel Digest96 Kit from Millipore was used.  Matrix‐assisted laser desorption/ionization time‐of‐flight (MALDI–TOF) was performed on a Bruker Reflex III (Bruker, Bremen, Germany) mass spectrometer operated in linear, positive ion mode with a N2 laser. Laser power was used at the threshold level required to generate signal. Accelerating voltage was set to 28 kV. The instrument was calibrated with protein standards bracketing the molecular weights of the protein samples (typically mixtures of bradykinin fragment 1–5 and ACTH fragment 18–39 as appropriate). Salt buffers from the protein samples were cleaned using ZipTips (Millipore, Bedford, MA) according to manufacturer's directions. α‐cyano‐4‐hydroxy‐cinamic acid was used as the matrix and prepared as a saturated solution in 50% ACN/0.1% TFA (in water). Allotments of 1 μl of matrix and 1 μl of sample were thoroughly mixed together; 0.5 μl of this mixture was spotted on the target plate and allowed to dry. A mass list of peptides was obtained for each protein digest. Next, the peptide mass fingerprint was submitted to ProFound (http://prowl.rockefeller.edu/cgi‐bin/ProFound) to identify proteins.  Capillary‐liquid chromatography‐nanospray tandem mass spectrometry (Nano‐LC/MS/MS) were performed on a Micromass in a hybrid quadrupole time‐of‐flight Q‐Tof(tm) II (Micromass, Wythenshawe, UK) mass spectrometer equipped with an orthogonal nanospray source from New Objective, Inc. (Woburn, MA) operated in a positive ion mode. The LC system was a Waters Alliance 2690 Separation Module (Waters, Milford, MA). The solvent A was water containing 50 mM acetic acid and the solvent B was acetonitrile. Ten microliters of each sample was first injected on to the trapping column, and then washed with 50 mM acetic acid. The injector port was switched to inject and the peptides were eluted off of the trap onto the column. A 10 cm 50 mM ID BioBasic C18 column packed directly in the nanospray tip was used for chromatographic separations. Peptides were eluted directly off the column into the Q‐TOF system using a gradient of 3–80% B over 20 min, with a flow rate of 280 ml/min with a pre‐column split to about 500 ml/min. A total run time was 35 min. The nanospray capillary voltage was set at 2.8 kV and cone at 55 V. The source temperature was maintained at 100°C. Mass spectra were recorded using MassLynx 3.5 automatic switching functions. Mass spectra were acquired from mass 300–2,000 Da/s with a resolution of 8,000 (FWHM). When the desired peak (using include tables) was detected at a minimum of 8 ion counts, the mass spectrometer automatically switched to acquire CID MS/MS spectrum of the individual peptide. Collision energy was set dependent on charge state recognition properties. Sequence information from the MS/MS data was processed using the MassLynx 3.5 Biolynx software. Amino acid sequences, sequence tags and peptide ion fragments were used to screen the protein databases with MASCOT (http://www.matrixscience.com/cgi/index.pl?page=../home.html), SONAR MS/MS (http://65.219.84.5/service/prowl/Sonar.html), BLAST (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/ BLAST/) [Altschul et al., 1990], or FASTA3 (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/fasta3).  For inverted epifluorescent microscopy (Leica DM IRB), material was stained for 5 min with 300 nM 4′,6′‐diamidino‐2‐phenylindole hydrochloride (DAPI) in 0.1 M potassium phosphate buffer (pH 7.4). Images were taken with the Optronics Magnafire digital camera (image size 1300 × 1030 pixels; pixel size 6.7 × 6.7 μm) with a UV filter A BP340‐380/400/LP425.  For confocal microscopy, the samples were stained for 5 min with 500 nM propidium iodide (PI) in 0.1 M potassium phosphate buffer (pH 7.4), to visualize nucleic acids. The PI images were taken on the Leica TCS SP scanning confocal microscope using the Argon laser (488 nm) for the excitation, and detection was performed at 610–640 nm.  Resinless nuclear matrix sections were obtained essentially as described [Nickerson et al., 1990; Yu and Moreno Diaz de la Espina, 1999]. Briefly, nuclear matrices were fixed in 2.5% glutaraldehyde in 0.1 M potassium phosphate buffer (pH 7.4) for 1 h at RT, rinsed three times with phosphate buffer and then embedded in 0.8% low melting agarose. Samples were post‐fixed in 1% OsO4 for 30 min at room temperature, dehydrated through an ethanol and n‐butyl alcohol series and embedded in diethylene glycol distearate (DGD). Sections (500 nm) were collected on Formovar‐carbon coated, and poly‐l‐lysine treated grids. DGD was removed by treating the grids with 100% n‐butyl alcohol, 50% n‐butyl and 50% ethanol, and two changes of 100% ethanol. Grids were then critically point dried and observed using a Hitachi N7500 electron microscope at 80 or 60 kV.  For prediction of subcellular localization, ProtComp 4 (Softberry, Inc., Mount Kisco, NY; http://www.softberry.com/berry.phtml?topic=proteinloc), PSORT v.6.4, (http://psort.nibb.ac.jp/form.html) [Nakai and Kanehisa, 1992)], and PredictNLS (http://cubic.bioc.columbia.edu/predictNLS) [Cokol et al., 2000] were used. The calculation of theoretical pI values was performed with EXPASY (http://us.expasy.org/tools/pi_tool.html), and the coiled‐coil prediction with the Protein Analysis module of the LASERGENE package (DNAX Corp.). 
