!~ABS~! Peroxiredoxins (Prx) are thiol-dependent antioxidants containing one (1-cysteine [-Cys]) or two (2-Cys) conserved Cys residues that protect lipids, enzymes, and DNA against reactive oxygen species. In plants, the 1-Cys Prxs are highly expressed during late seed development, and the expression pattern is dormancy related in mature seeds. We have expressed the Arabidopsis 1-Cys Prx AtPER1 in Escherichia coli and show that this protein has antioxidant activity in vitro and protects E. coli in vivo against the toxic oxidant cumene hydroperoxide. Although some 1-Cys Prxs are targeted to the nucleus, a green fluorescent protein-AtPER1 fusion protein was also localized to the cytoplasm in an onion epidermis subcellular localization assay. It has been proposed that seed Prxs are involved in maintenance of dormancy and/or protect the embryo and aleurone layer surviving desiccation against damage caused by reactive oxygen species. These hypotheses were tested using transgenic Arabidopsis lines overexpressing the barley (Hordeum vulgare) 1-Cys PER1 protein and lines with reduced levels of AtPER1 due to antisensing or RNA interference. We found no correlation between Prx levels and the duration of the after-ripening period required before germination. Thus, Prxs are unlikely to contribute to maintenance of dormancy. RNA interference lines almost devoid of AtPER1 protein developed and germinated normally under standard growth room conditions. However, seeds from lines overexpressing PER1 were less inclined to germinate than wild-type seeds in the presence of NaCl, mannitol, and methyl viologen, suggesting that Prx can sense harsh environmental surroundings and play a part in the inhibition of germination under unfavorable conditions.
!~RES~! Antioxidant activity of a purified and concentrated AtPER1 fusion protein, produced using the PinPoint system (Promega, Madison, WI), was tested in a DNA protection assay, i.e. DNA was exposed to a mixed function oxidation assay where ROS is generated due to the presence of Fe3+ (CITATION). Protection of plasmid DNA against cleavage by radicals produced in the system increased with increasing concentrations of AtPER1 fusion protein (20–200 μg mL–1; Fig. 1). In a 1-h reaction, a substantial protection against degradation was evident with 50 to 200 μg mL–1 (Fig. 1C, lanes 2–4). In comparison, the DNA was totally degraded without addition of fusion protein or in the presence of 200 μg mL–1 BSA (Fig. 1C, lane 1 and 6). However, the fusion protein did not give full protection against nicking and degradation. Even with 200 μg mL–1 protein, nicking of plasmid DNA was evident after 0.5 h when exposed to 3.0 or 0.3 μm Fe3+ (Fig. 1, A and B) compared with the unnicked, supercoiled plasmid (lane 7). After 4 h, complete DNA degradation was seen also in the presence of AtPER1 (Fig. 1D).   [[FIGURE]] Antioxidant activity of AtPER1 was also tested in vivo. The AtPER1 PinPoint fusion protein was used to produce polyclonal antibodies against AtPER1 (see “Materials and Methods”; Fig. 2A, lane 3). The inframe AtPER1 cDNA construct (PPAtPER1) and the cDNA cloned out of frame in the PinPoint vector system (nonsense construct) were introduced into Escherichia coli JM109 cells. Protein isolated from bacteria harboring the nonsense construct confirmed that this construct did not express a full-length AtPER1 protein. The polyclonal antiserum does, however, recognize the PinPoint tag (Fig. 2A, 14 kD). In bacteria with the PPAtPER1 construct, AtPER1 antiserum detected a protein of the expected size (Fig. 2A, 38 kD), corresponding to the AtPER1 fusion protein purified by means of the N-terminal PinPoint tag (Fig. 2A, lane 3).   [[FIGURE]] The E. coli cells were tested for survival in the presence of the toxic oxidant cumene hydroperoxide in an assay previously used to show in vivo antioxidant activity of the 2-Cys Prx of barley, BAS1 (CITATION). Expression of AtPER1 increased the tolerance of the bacteria to cumene hydroperoxide (Fig. 2B). Less than one-half (45.0% ± 2.8%) of the bacteria harboring the nonsense construct survived 20 min of exposure to 1.0 mm cumene hydroperoxide, compared with 61.0% ± 6.6% of the bacteria expressing AtPER1. Plant 1-Cys Prxs have been suggested to contain a bipartite NLS at the 3′ end (CITATION; CITATION). Analysis of the AtPER1 sequence using PSORT (http://psort.nibb.ac.jp/) and PredictNLS (http://cubic.bioc.columbia.edu/predictNLS/) predicted cytoplasmic localization to be most likely for AtPER1. To investigate this aspect further, intracellular localization of AtPER1 in a C-terminal fusion with the GFP was examined in a transient expression assay in onion epidermal cells (see “Materials and Methods”). The 35S::GFP-AtPER1 construct as well as 35S::GFP and a positive control for nuclear localization, the cDNA of Heterochromatin Protein1 (HP1) of fruitfly (Drosophila melanogaster) cloned in-frame with GFP were introduced into the inner epidermis of onion using particle bombardment. GFP-HP1 showed a strong signal restricted to the nucleus (Fig. 3A). In contrast, the GFP on its own is present in the cytoplasm and in the nucleus (Fig. 3B). The nuclear localization is thought to result from diffusion, because the GFP protein is smaller than 40 to 60 kD (CITATION). The signal distribution of the approximately 50-kD GFP-AtPER1 fusion protein was comparable with that of the approximately 25-kD GFP (Fig. 2C).   [[FIGURE]] To investigate the relationship between 1-Cys Prx level and maintenance of dormancy, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants that overexpressed the barley 1-Cys Prx PER1 (pPCV002 35S::Per1) and plants with down-regulation of the AtPER1 level using an AtPER1-antisense construct (pKOH110 35S::AtPER1; Fig. 4). The expression levels of PER1 in independent 35S::Per1 transformants were tested by immunodetection with PER1 antiserum (CITATION) on western blots with protein isolated from mature seeds. The PER1 antiserum does not crossreact with the Arabidopsis AtPER1 protein (Fig. 5A, wt lane). Two transgenic lines with equally high PER1 levels (Fig. 5A) were used in a germination test. The AtPER1 transcript level in seeds of these lines did not differ significantly from wt seeds (data not shown).   [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]] Siliques were harvested at the same stage of maturity, i.e. the first three brown, dried, and just opened siliques were collected. At the point of harvest, these seeds are completely dormant. Seeds from such siliques were sown every 3rd d after harvest, and germination frequencies were scored 8 d after sowing. In the wt C24 ecotype, germination frequencies are slowly increasing with the number of days of after-ripening. After 12 to 15 d, germination frequencies begin to increase more rapidly, and 60% germination is reached at 18 d of after-ripening (Fig. 5B). After 33 d, more than 95% of the seeds germinate. The pPCV002 35S::Per1 line 1 showed a similar germination pattern as wt seeds, whereas pPCV002 35S::Per1 line 2 needed longer time of after-ripening to reach a similar germination frequency (Fig. 5B). However, after 33 d, 88% of the line 2 seeds also germinated. The PER1 levels are not significantly different in the two lines (Fig. 5A). Thus, differences in germination profiles cannot be attributed to barley 1-Cys Prx but can possibly be attributed to different genomic insertion positions of the T-DNAs in the two 35S::Per1 lines. The variation in germination frequency between seeds of individual wt plants or transgenic plants of the same line, reflected by the sd, can be attributed to environmental variance. To test whether a reduction in AtPER1 level reduced dormancy, lines transformed with the antisense AtPER1 construct was used. mRNA was isolated from mature seeds of different lines and the level of mRNA investigated by northern hybridization. The lines 3 to 7 showed from 10% to 90% reduction in mRNA level compared with wt seeds (Fig. 6A). Germination tests were performed in the same manner as for the pPCV002 35S::Per1 lines. Average germination frequencies after 8 d of imbibition of seeds sown 18 d after harvest (Fig. 6B) was lower than that of wt seeds for two lines with transcript levels of 74% and 82%, however, only significant for one line. For three lines, among them line 3 with a transcript reduction of 90%, germination frequencies were comparable with wt (about 60%). After 24 d of after-ripening, there was a variation in germination frequencies from 65% to 95% (Fig. 6B). However, the frequencies did not correlate to the level of AtPER1 in the seeds.   [[FIGURE]] Because the antisense construct only to a limited extent lowered AtPER1 expression levels, an RNA interference (RNAi) construct (pPCV002 AtPER1RNAi) was made. Two copies of the AtPER1 cDNA were cloned in inverse orientations on each side of a stuffer fragment (Fig. 4). Transcription from the 35S promoter would make possible the generation of a double-stranded AtPER1 cDNA intended for down-regulation of the endogenous AtPER1 expression by RNAi (CITATION). Arabidopsis plants transformed with this construct were tested for mRNA and protein expression levels. Two independent lines with significantly lowered mRNA levels at 5 DPA and in mature seeds (Fig. 7A) were selected for further experiments. As anticipated, the protein levels detectable by the antiserum specific for AtPER1 (Fig. 2A) were drastically reduced in these two lines (Fig. 7A).   [[FIGURE]] No obvious phenotype, e.g. embryo lethality or morphological changes, was detected in the primary RNAi transformants or their progeny plants that also had drastically reduced AtPER1 levels (data not shown). The seeds developed normally, and the dormancy level correlated closely to that of seeds from wt plants grown and harvested at the same time as the RNAi lines (data not shown). In after-ripened seeds, the germination frequencies were similar, i.e. between 95% and 98%. The number of abnormal germinating seedlings was not significantly different either between AtPER1RNAi lines and the wt or between the RNAi lines and 35S::Per1-overexpressing lines. Only one of our tests indicated a role for AtPER1. Mature, after-ripened, thus non-dormant, AtPER1RNAi seeds were germinated under ionic osmotic stress (10–175 mm NaCl) and nonionic osmotic stress (10–500 mm mannitol), which both are known to inhibit germination (see CITATION). On average, a slightly higher (although in most cases not significant) germination frequency was observed for the RNAi lines compared with wt seeds grown and harvested at the same point of time, both on NaCl and on mannitol (data not shown). At a concentration of 200 mm mannitol, the RNAi lines germinated significantly faster than wt: Four days after sowing 72% and 92% of the total number of germinating RNAi seeds had already germinated, compared with only 57% of the total germinating wt seeds (Fig. 7B). Total germination frequencies after 8 d were 86% and 98% for the AtPER1 RNAi lines, while 76% for the wt seeds. This suggested that AtPER1 normally contributes to inhibition of germination under harsh conditions. To further investigate the influence of seed 1-Cys Prx levels under conditions shown to inhibit germination, we compared germination frequencies between seeds from wt and 35S::Per1 lines (Fig. 5A). Germination frequencies were scored on 10 to 175 mm NaCl, 10 to 500 mm mannitol, and 5 to 500 μm MV, a compound known to create superoxide anions and H2O2. On the lowest concentrations of NaCl used (10–50 mm), germination frequencies of wt and 35S::Per1 lines were almost similar, but on 100 mm NaCl the 35S::Per1 lines germinated to a lower extent than wt seeds (Fig. 8A), i.e. after 8 d, 90% of wt seeds but only 50% to 60% of the 35S::Per1 seeds germinated. Germination of the latter was also slower, because after 4 d, almost all of the wt seeds that germinated had germinated, whereas hardly any of the 35S::Per1 seeds had started to germinate (Fig. 8B). One hundred and twenty-five and 175 mm NaCl drastically impaired germination of wt seeds, and transgenic seeds did not germinate at all (Fig. 8A).   [[FIGURE]] Concentrations of 10 to 300 mm mannitol had only minor effect on germination of wt, whereas germination in 35S::Per1 lines showed lower total germination frequencies after 8 d with increasing concentrations (Fig. 8C). Germination was also slower (Fig. 8D shows this for 200 mm mannitol). At concentrations of 400 and 500 mm mannitol, wt germination was also critically reduced (Fig. 8C). Germination on the lowest concentration (5 μm) of MV did not result in any difference between wt and 35S::Per1 seeds (Fig. 8E). At 50 to 200 μm MV, germination of wt and transgenic seeds were gradually delayed and also much lower after 8 d. Wt seeds could, however, withstand higher concentrations than 35S::Per1 seeds (Fig. 8, E and F). Four hundred and 500 μm MV dramatically impaired germination of wt and 35S::Per1 seeds (Fig. 8E). In summary, the 35S::Per1 lines were slower and less inclined to germinate when exposed to osmotic and oxidative stress. To investigate the fate of the AtPER1 protein during imbibition with and without stress, we determined protein levels of wt and 35S::Per1 seeds imbibed on 400 and 200 mm mannitol or on water, using western blotting (Fig. 8G). In wt seeds and 35S::Per1 seeds, AtPER1 levels correlate inversely to germination frequency, i.e. the level is highest in seeds imbibed on 400 mm mannitol and lowest in seeds germinated on water for 8 d. On water, with a germination frequency of near to 100%, only traces of AtPER1 protein was seen in the wt—with double the amount of total protein and 10 times longer exposure time that in Figure 8G, a faint AtPER1 protein band could be detected (not shown). It should also be noted that compared with wt, the AtPER1 level is higher in both 35S::Per1 lines (Fig. 8G), which have significantly lower germination frequencies than wt on mannitol (Fig. 8C). To investigate whether the AtPER1 protein level was reflected in the AtPER1 transcript level, mRNA from seeds imbibed on water and on 400 mm mannitol was isolated and subjected to northern hybridization with an AtPER1 probe (Fig. 8H). Although the AtPER1 transcript is hardly visible in the mRNA from seeds germinated on water, the AtPER1 transcript level is high in seeds imbibed on mannitol, and considerably higher in 35S::Per1 seeds than in wt, consistent with the lower germination frequencies of the 35S::Per1 seeds.
!~MM~! AtPER1 cDNA was amplified by reverse transcriptase-PCR using the gene-specific primers 5′-CGG GAT CCG GTA AAA TGC CAG GGA TC-3′ and 5′-GGA ATT CGT AGG CTT TTG TTA TTA TCT TTT C-3′, containing BamHI site and EcoRI sites. The AtPER1 cDNA digested with EcoRI, blunted, and then digested by BamHI was ligated into the BamHI and SmaI sites of PinPoint Xa3 vector (Promega), generating the construct PPAtPER1. Sequencing confirmed the cDNA sequence to be in the correct reading frame following the polypeptide tag. AtPER1 fusion protein was purified using the PinPoint batch purification protocol (Promega), with 50 mm HEPES and 5 mm biotin as elution buffer. Purified AtPER1 fusion protein was used for antiserum production in two rabbits (AGRI SERA AB, Vännäs, Sweden). Antioxidant activity of purified AtPER1 fusion protein, concentrated in a Centricon-10 concentrator (Millipore, Bedford, MA), was tested in a DNA cleavage assay as by Stacy et al. (CITATION). Control reactions were performed on flow-through from the Centricon column without AtPER1 protein and by the addition of 200 μg mL–1 BSA. An AtPER1 nonsense construct was made by PCR amplification with the primers 5′-CGG GAT CCG TAA AAT GCC AGG GAT CAC-3′ and 5′-GGA ATT CGT AGG CTT TTG TTA TTA TCT TTT C-3′, which contain BamHI and EcoRI sites in their 5′ ends, respectively. The 5′ end primer contained one additional nucleotide that generated an out-of-frame fusion to the PinPoint tag when cloned between the BamHI and EcoRI sites of PinPoint Xa3 vector. The nonsense construct and the PPAtPER1 construct (previous section) were used in an in vivo activity assay in E. coli JM109 according to (CITATION). Survival of bacteria exposed to 1.0 mm cumene hydroperoxide were analyzed and compared. Pelleted E. coli cells expressing the PPAtPER1 and nonsense constructs, dissolved in loading buffer (62 mm Tris-HCl, pH 6.8, 10% [v/v] glycerol, 2% [w/v] SDS, 0.7 m 2-β-mercaptoethanol, and 0.0012% [w/v] bromphenol blue) were used for protein SDS-PAGE. Isolation of total protein from plant tissue, SDS-PAGE, western blotting, and immunodetection were performed as described by Stacy et al. (CITATION). A 1:1,000 (v/v) dilution of the PER1 antiserum and 1:750 (v/v) dilution of the AtPER1 antiserum were used. Equal loading in all lanes was confirmed by staining the membranes with Ponceau red before detection. For investigation of intracellular localization of AtPER1, the cDNA was amplified by PCR using the primers 5′-GAA GAT CTA TGC CAG GGA TCA CAT A-3′ and 5′-GCT CTA GAT CAA GAC CTC TGT GTA C-3′, which include the restriction sites BglII and XbaI, respectively. The PCR product was cloned behind the GFP reporter gene between the BglII and XbaI sites of pAVA319 (CITATION). The in-frame fusion was confirmed by DNA sequencing. Control constructs used were pAVA319 containing 35S::GFP (CITATION), and 35S::HP1-GFP in the pKEx-327 vector (CITATION). Transient expression of the GFP fusion constructs was investigated through bombardment of onion epidermal cells as by Baumbusch et al. (CITATION) using a Biolistic PDS-1000/He Particle Delivery System (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Hercules, CA; CITATION). The pPCV002 35S::Per1 construct was generated by digesting the Per1 cDNA (B15C; CITATION) from pBluescript by SalI and XbaI and ligation between the respective sites of pPCV002 35S (CITATION; Fig. 4). The pKOH110 35S::AtPER1 antisense construct was generated by digesting the AtPER1 cDNA in pBluescript with EcoRI, blunting, and subsequent XbaI digestion. This fragment was ligated into the SmaI and XbaI sites between a 35S promoter and terminator cloned in pUC18. The 35S-AtPER1-ter cassette was excised using EcoRI and ligated into the EcoRI site of pKOH110 (CITATION; Fig. 4). The pPCV002 35S::AtPER1 RNAi construct was generated by digesting the AtPER1 cDNA in pBluescript with SmaI and EcoRI, and this fragment was ligated into the respective sites of a pBluescript plasmid harboring a fragment of the GUS (uidA) gene in the EcoRV site of the polylinker. A second AtPER1 cDNA was excised using SmaI and HindIII, and this fragment was ligated between the HindIII and a blunted XhoI site of pBluescript-AtPER1-GUS from the first cloning step. This resulting AtPER1-GUS-AtPER1 construct was digested by ApaI, followed by blunting and XbaI digestion before ligation between the SmaI and XbaI of pPCV002 35S (Fig. 4). For transformation of Arabidopsis plants, alternative methods were used; a root transformation protocol from Valvekens et al. (CITATION), modified by Mandal et al. (CITATION), a vacuum transformation method modified after Bechtold et al. (CITATION), or the floral-dip method of Clough and Bent (CITATION). Transformants were selected on MS-2 plates supplemented by 50 mg L–1 kanamycin. Arabidopsis ecotype C24 (wt) and transgenic plants were cultivated in growth chambers at 22°C and 8 h of dark/16 h of light (100 μE m–2). For germination tests, siliques were harvested at a specific stage; the first three brown, dried, and just opened siliques, were collected and after-ripened at room temperature. Seeds were sown on MS-2 plates at harvest and every 3rd d until 27 to 33 d of after-ripening. Germination was scored every 2nd d until 8 d after sowing. For germination analyses during osmotic and oxidative stress, after-ripened seeds were imbibed on paper discs soaked in concentrations ranging from 10 to 175 mm NaCl, 5 to 500 μm MV, or 10 to 500 mm mannitol. Germination was scored every 2nd d until 8 d after sowing. Seeds used in the same experiment were harvested from wt plants and transgenic plants grown at the same time and in the same growth chamber. mRNA was extracted using magnetic Genoprep mRNA beads (Geno-Vision, Oslo, Norway). Total RNA isolation was performed after a modified protocol from Downing et al. (CITATION): Plant tissue was homogenized in lysis buffer (100 mm Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 500 mm LiCl, 10 mm EDTA, pH 8.0, 1% [w/v] LiDS, and 5 mm dithiothreitol), extracted twice with phenol:chloroform:isoamylalcohol (25:24:1, v/v), and once with pure chloroform. Total RNA was precipitated in one-third volume of 8 m LiCl on ice for 14 to 20 h. After centrifugation (9,000 rpm, 30 min, and 4°C), the RNA pellet was resuspended in 100 μL of Tris-EDTA solution (10 mm Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, and 1 mm EDTA, pH 8.0), precipitated in 150 μL of 5 m KAc, pH 6.5, for 3 to 5 h on ice, and centrifuged as above, followed by a final ethanol precipitation. For northern analyses 0.5 μg of mRNA or 10 μg of total RNA was separated on a denaturing RNA gel, blotted, and hybridized as described (CITATION). Hybridizing probes include AtPER1 (CITATION) and Per1 (B15C; CITATION). An rRNA probe from Pyropyxis rubra was used as a loading control (CITATION). Northern blots were scanned using a SnapScan 600. Signals were quantified using Gel-Pro Analyzer 2.0 software (Media Cybernetics, Silver Spring, MD).
