!~ABS~! In plants, it is unclear how dispersed cortical microtubules are nucleated, polarized and organized in the absence of centrosomes. In Arabidopsis thaliana cells, expression of a fusion between the microtubule-end-binding protein AtEB1a and green fluorescent protein (GFP) results in labelling of spindle poles, where minus ends gather. During interphase, AtEB1a–GFP labels the microtubule plus end as a comet, but also marks the minus end as a site from which microtubules can grow and shrink. These minus-end nucleation sites are mobile, explaining how the cortical array can redistribute during the cell cycle and supporting the idea of a flexible centrosome in plants.
!~RES~! In plants, microtubules do not radiate from a discrete organizing centre, such as the centrosome in animal cells, but are instead dispersed beneath the plasma membrane. During cell expansion, they are known to be remodelled into parallel groups of overlapping tubules that are organized transversely around the cell. The lack of a centrosome has led to much debate about this re-organization and how all four microtubule arrays are formed (CITATION) . The nuclear surface actively supports outgrowth of microtubules, but observation of living cells suggests that microtubules can also be directly nucleated at the cortex (CITATION) . Mazia (CITATION) hypothesized that relocation of microtubule-nucleating material around the plant cell cycle could be explained by a flexible centrosome, in which the nucleating material is not anchored to centrioles but is free to assume various morphologies and locations. The problem has been in identifying the dispersed nucleating material (CITATION) . In theory, γ-tubulin should be a good minus-end marker. However, it is located along the length of plant microtubules both in vitro (CITATION) and in vivo (CITATION) . To label microtubule ends, we expressed an Arabidopsis homologue of the animal microtubule-end-binding protein, EB1, as a GFP fusion protein. EB1 has higher affinity for the polymerizing plus end and lower affinity for binding along the wall (CITATION) , forming a comet-like gradient of staining on growing microtubules (CITATION) . These comets are known to label microtubule plus ends from vertebrate cells to fungi. Here, we demonstrate that it also marks plus ends in plants. EB1 functions as an 'antipause' factor at microtubule plus ends (CITATION) , regulating microtubule dynamics and promoting end-on attachment to different cellular sites (CITATION) . It is well established that EB1 is also located at the opposite ends of microtubules (that is, in spindle poles and centrosomes) in fungi (CITATION) , flies (CITATION) and vertebrates (CITATION) , and so it is clearly not an exclusive marker of plus ends. Indeed, in Dictyostelium discoideum, EB1 is an integral component of the centrosome, where its location is independent of microtubules (CITATION) . Experiments have shown that its function at the centrosome is not essential for microtubule nucleation per se (CITATION) but that it may anchor microtubules (CITATION) or function as a source for distributing EB1 to the outgrowing plus ends (CITATION) . Here, we show that despite the absence of centrioles, EB1 forms foci at regions where the minus ends of microtubules are gathered during mitosis and early cytokinesis (CITATION) . During interphase, AtEB1a is located as small dispersed foci in the cell cortex that are easily distinguishable from the plus end comets on the basis of their slower dynamics and association with microtubule minus ends. We show that these foci are highly dynamic structures that move independently of microtubules, and that microtubules shrink back to and grow out from them. This behaviour demonstrates how microtubule arrays can be remodelled during polarized cell growth and the cell cycle, providing direct evidence for the concept of a flexible centrosome. First, we searched the TAIR database for EB1-like genes. The Arabidopsis genome contains three predicted genes that encode proteins with a high degree of similarity to human EB1: AtEB1a, AtEB1b and AtEB1c were 36%, 38% and 35% identical, respectively, with calculated relative molecular masses (Mr) of 31, 29 and 36K. Sequence analysis of the three Arabidopsis proteins showed that similar to all EB1 family members, they contained a highly conserved amino-terminal domain (residues 1–122) required for microtubule binding (CITATION) and a highly conserved coiled-coil domain (residues 181–220) thought to mediate protein–protein interactions (CITATION) . cDNAs for the three Arabidopsis EB1 members were isolated by RT–PCR and tagged at the carboxyl terminus with GFP. Only the labelling pattern of AtEB1a (which was similar to AtEB1b) is presented here. Transient expression of AtEB1a–GFP in Arabidopsis suspension cells confirmed that AtEB1a associates with microtubules in vivo. Labelling was either continuous along the microtubule (Fig. 1a) or found in linear–punctate patterns with the ends often labelled as dots (Fig. 1b, c). Variation in labelling pattern is unlikely to be caused by expression levels, as the same cell often contained both types of labelling. In addition, we observed none of the conspicuous bundling reported after expression in animal cells (CITATION) . The linear punctate pattern is consistent with observations from Xenopus laevis egg extracts, in which EB1 was found to label plus end foci as well as the tubule wall (with lower affinity), the balance of which was controlled by the stage of the cell cycle (CITATION) . [[FIGURE]] To confirm that these patterns were based on microtubules, we treated protoplasts with the microtubule-stabilizing drug taxol. This resulted in colocalization of microtubule and GFP signals (Fig. 1d). Conversely, the anti-microtubule herbicide oryzalin reduced the GFP signal and its ability to form linear patterns, leaving fluorescent foci in the cell cortex (Fig. 1e). Time-lapse microscopy observations of living suspension cells showed that, similarly to animal cells, AtEB1a was concentrated at the fast-growing (plus) ends of microtubules, where it formed a comet-like gradient of fluorescence intensity at the tips. This was particularly evident in cells with punctate labelling patterns, where there was little tubule wall labelling (see Supplementary Information, Movie 1). Comets originated from multiple sites and moved unidirectionally in the cell cortex before disappearing abruptly. Kymographs showed that these microtubules exhibited sustained polymerization: that is, growth without catastrophe or pause (Fig. 2a). Compared with the dynamics observed in some other cells (see below), the polymerization rate in cells with comets was high, averaging 6.80 ± 0.16 μm min−1 (n = 139 microtubules). [[FIGURE]] Dynamic instability could be observed in microtubules labelled with AtEB1a on tubule walls. Kymographs showed that AtEB1a was relatively concentrated at the growing ends of microtubules. The intense plus end labelling observed in the polymerizing phase of the kymograph was lost after depolymerization (Fig. 2b, c). Although dimmer than during the growing phase, AtEB1a was still detected at the plus end of a depolymerizing microtubule. The rates of polymerization and depolymerization were 3.53 ± 0.26 μm min−1 (n = 81 microtubules) and 5.08 ± 0.3 μm min−1 (n = 48 microtubules), respectively. Microtubules also exhibited pause/attenuation. The average frequencies of catastrophe and rescue were 0.01 ± 0.001 (1 per 100 s of growth and pause) and 0.05 ± 0.02 (5 rescues per 100 s of shortening) events per second, respectively. These rates of microtubule growth and shrinkage are very similar to those reported for Arabidopsis epidermal cells (CITATION) . However, the depolymerization rate is almost four times slower than reported for tobacco BY2 suspension cells labelled with vertebrate CLIP-170 (ref. 23). Under the conditions we used, microtubule plus ends spent 56.3% of their time growing, 25.1% of their time depolymerizing and 18.6% in a paused/attenuated state. Microtubule plus ends spent 1.56 times longer polymerizing than depolymerizing. The dynamicity value (CITATION) of 3.26 μm min−1 (0.54 μm s−1; 92 tubulin dimerss−1) compares favourably with plus-end values obtained from interphase animal cells (CITATION) . Labelling with AtEB1a revealed three other types of dynamic behaviour. Pulling was observed when the plus end of a depolymerizing microtubule attached to the flank of another tubule (see Supplementary Information, Movie 2). A characteristic of this type of behaviour was a reduction in the rate of microtubule disassembly from 4.69 ± 1.39 μm min−1 to 2.12 ± 0.68 μm min−1 once it had attached to the other microtubule and begun pulling on it. EB1 has been shown to interact with motor proteins in other cell types (CITATION) , and it is conceivable that pulling can be explained by a motor protein at the plus ends of microtubules which couples microtubule movement to microtubule disassembly, similarly to the way the kinetochore motor, CENP-E, couples chromatid movement to microtubule depolymerization (CITATION) . Conversely, the plus ends of polymerizing microtubules were observed to push microtubules at the cortex (data not shown). The third behaviour, sliding, would be difficult to detect within a microtubule bundle, but was viewed when microtubules cross each other's paths at an angle. In such cases, microtubules slid with an average velocity of 3.58 ± 0.55 μm min−1 (data not shown). These movements demonstrate the spatial freedom associated with acentriolar plant microtubules, adding to the repertoire by which cortical microtubules can re-orientate between transverse, oblique and longitudinally orientated arrays (CITATION) . Hook decoration studies (CITATION) have established the polarity of microtubules in the spindle and phragmoplast, but the polarity of cortical microtubules remains unknown. The plus-end-revealing behaviour of AtEB1a comets allowed us to examine the polarity of microtubule growth in elongated suspension cells (Fig. 2d). We conclude that: first, microtubules originate from multiple sites that are diffusely distributed at the cortex; second, they grow both clockwise and anti-clockwise within the same cell (this bi-directional growth was also observed in the pre-prophase band (data not shown); third, they grow in varying directions (mainly transverse/oblique). Thus, at least in suspension cells, there is no evidence that the array as a whole must contain microtubules growing in the same direction for cell elongation to be maintained. Consistent with animal studies (CITATION) , AtEB1a was found at the spindle poles of plant cells. Despite the absence of centrioles, AtEB1a was still capable of forming polar foci, reminiscent of the centrosomes found at the poles of animal spindles (Fig. 3a). Polar labelling was also observed during early telophase, where AtEB1a surrounded the daughter nuclei, but concentrated at their inner faces (Fig. 3b). At this stage of cytokinesis, the two sets of phragmoplast microtubules were associated with the daughter nuclei (see Supplementary Information, Fig. S1), a stage at which the minus ends are known to be directed towards the chromosomal masses (CITATION) . Therefore, AtEB1a accumulates near microtubule minus ends during mitosis and early cytokinesis. [[FIGURE]] This association of AtEB1a with material at the minus ends of microtubules during division was reflected in the labelling pattern during interphase. Separate from the comet-like labelling, AtEB1a was found at foci that did not demonstrate plus-end dynamics. Such foci were diffusely distributed at the cell cortex, often associated with microtubule bundles and at the minus ends of mobile microtubules (see below). Time-lapse microscopy indicated that these foci function as microtubule nucleation sites. Fig. 4a shows stills from a movie, illustrating a microtubule growing from an AtEB1a focus. Fig. 4b demonstrates a microtubule depolymerizing back to such a focus (see Supplementary Information, Movie 3, Focus 1, illustrating two microtubules shrinking back to the same spot from which a microtubule then grows). When microtubules depolymerized, the foci often remained in the same superficial focal plane as the cortical microtubules, and so the foci are presumed to be attached to the plasma membrane. However, the association was dynamic, as foci were capable of appearing and disappearing from the cortex. An example of mobility is shown in Fig. 4c, where a microtubule depolymerizes back to a focus that then moves to another position, giving rise to another microtubule. This suggests that AtEB1a labels foci from which cortical microtubules originate (demonstrating a functional equivalence to centrosomal material) and that these foci are mobile, capable of associating with, and dissociating from, the cortex. [[FIGURE]] Another form of mobility was detected in which the focus of AtEB1a was attached to the minus end of a microtubule, resulting a dumbbell-like structure with foci at either end (Fig. 5a). Importantly, these ends are readily distinguishable by the fast polymerization rate of the comet end. By tracking the minus-end foci it was possible to show that they exhibited slow but sustained plus-end-directed movement (0.15 ± 0.02 μm min−1) as they moved in the wake of a growing microtubule (Fig. 5b; also see Supplementary Information, Movie 4). Not all cortical microtubules were motile: some maintained fixed positions (particularly those organized as bundles). As previously shown by photobleaching (CITATION) , the movement of motile microtubules is most probably caused by a modified form of treadmilling, rather than translocation of a non-dynamic minus end. These are not inactive mobile sites, dragged along by a treadmilling microtubule. Fig. 5c illustrates an active AtEB1a focus at the minus end of a dynamic microtubule, marking the outgrowth of a second microtubule. Faster movement of the minus end has been observed, with a maximum of 9.0 μm min−1, resulting in complete and rapid depolymerization of the microtubule. However, where minus end foci can be clearly monitored it is important to note that movement is slower. This suggests that the presence of the nucleation site protects the microtubule minus end from rapid depolymerization. In animal cells, for instance, microtubules detached from centrosomes have free minus ends that are unstable (CITATION) . Therefore, relocation of AtEB1a, which we have shown throughout the cell cycle, could account for the destabilization of arrays on a cyclic basis. [[FIGURE]] In conclusion, these data demonstrate that AtEB1a locates both to the plus ends of microtubules and to the sites of nucleation during division and interphase. Such comet-like, as well as centrosomal, labelling is well documented in animals and fungi, underlining the evolutionary conservation of EB1 function. By analogy with EB1 function in other eukaryotes (CITATION) , and bearing in mind that knockdown experiments do not suggest a role in nucleation per se (CITATION) , we hypothesize that AtEB1a may be involved in anchoring microtubules to their nucleation sites and/or functioning as a reservoir for distribution to the growing end. In any case, by marking the nucleation sites in interphase AtEB1a has provided new information on the genesis of the dispersed cortical array. By moving with cortical microtubules and by translocating independently of microtubule growth, the AtEB1a-tagged nucleation sites offer a way by which a dispersed centrosome-equivalent can extend the cortical array during the massive expansion that is characteristic of vacuolated plant cells. The data support the idea that nucleation sites are recycled (CITATION) . However, our findings show that microtubule minus ends are not necessarily severed from the nucleation site and transported to the plus end of a microtubule as part of the recycling process (CITATION) . These observations provide direct evidence for Mazia's long-standing hypothesis of the plant cell's 'flexible centrosome' (CITATION) , in which nucleating material disperses at different stages of the cell cycle.
!~MM~! A non-embryogenic suspension culture of Arabidopsis thaliana (Columbia) was maintained in 0.44% (w/v) Murashige and Skoog's medium containing Gamborg B5 vitamins (Duchefa, Haarlem, The Netherlands) supplemented with 3% (w/v) sucrose (Sigma, St Louis, MO) and 1 mg l−1 2, 4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (Sigma). Cells were sub-cultured every 7 days and shaken at 21 °C in the dark. Protein sequence analysis was performed using BLAST at NCBI (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/BLAST/). Protein sequences of Arabidopsis EB1-like proteins were downloaded from the TAIR database (http://www.arabidopsis.org/) and aligned in ClustalW (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/clustalw/). Further sequence analysis was performed using COILS (http://www.ch.embnet.org/software/COILS_form.html) and Pfam (http://www.sanger.ac.uk/Software/Pfam/search.shtml). AtEB1–GFP constructs were prepared using Gateway cloning technology (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). In brief, mRNA was isolated from Arabidopsis suspension cells using Dynabeads (mRNA DIRECT kit (Dynal, Oslo, Norway) and converted to cDNA using Sensiscript reverse transcriptase kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA). The cDNA was used as template in nested PCR reactions to amplify AtEB1a with flanking attB1 and attB2 recombination sites (primers for the first reaction: EB3-F1: 5′-AAAAAGCAGGCTTCATGGCGACGAACATCGGAATG-3′ and EB3-R1: 5′-AGAAAGCTGGGTCGGCTTGAGTCTTTTCTTC-3′; primers for second reaction: AttB1: 5′- GGG ACA AGT TTG TAC AAA AAA GCAGGC T-3′ and AttB2: 5′-GGG GAC CAC TTT GTA CAA GAA AGC TGG GT-3′, which amplified a product of 876 bp). The PCR product was gel-purified and used in MultiSite Gateway(BP (attB x attP) recombination reactions with pDONR207((Invitrogen) to generate an entry clone, which was used in MultiSite Gateway LR (attL × attR) recombination reactions with a C-terminal GFP destination vector, pBinGWC. Briefly, the Gateway recombination cassette, reading frame C, was ligated into the filled-in XhoI site of 35s-10H-GFP-JFH1 (ref. 31) to produce pBinGWC. AtEB1–GFP constructs were verified by sequencing and expressed in Arabidopsis suspension cells by transformation with Agrobacterium tumefaciens (gv3101): 50 ml of Agrobacterium culture at log phase was collected by centrifugation and resuspended in 3 ml 0.15 mM acetosyringone (Sigma) solution containing 100 mM magnesium chloride (Sigma). After at least 1 h, the Agrobacterium was added to a 1-day-old suspension culture. Expression of AtEB1–GFP was detected after 2 days. Four-day-old cells were converted into protoplasts, as previously described (CITATION) . The washed protoplasts were incubated at 4 °C in either 50 mM PIPES, 5 mM magnesium sulphate and 5 mM EGTA (PME buffer) containing 0.4 M sorbitol, or in PME buffer containing 20 μM taxol (Sigma) or 20μM oryzalin (Sigma) for 1 h. Three-day-old cell cultures were fixed for 1 h in PME buffer plus 0.025M sorbitol (PMES), containing 4% (w/v) formaldehyde. After three washes in PMES, the cells were stuck to poly-L-lysine-coated slides and extracted in PMES containing 2% (w/v) Onozuka R-10 cellulase, 0.05% (w/v) pectolyase Y-23 and 0.05%(v/v) Triton X-100. Cells were labelled with YOL1/34 anti-tubulin and DAPI, as previously described (CITATION) . Images were acquired using a Bio-Rad MRC 1024 confocal microscope (Biorad, Hemel Hempstead, UK). Time-lapse images were acquired at 5-s intervals. Microtubule dynamics and angles of polymerization were measured in the time-lapse images by using the line tool of ImageJ (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/). Microtubule life histories (kymographs) were also plotted using the line and reslice tools of ImageJ. The frequency for catastrophe was calculated as the sum of the number of transitions from growth-to-shortening and pause-to-shortening divided by the sum of the total time spent in growth and pause (per second). The frequency of rescue was determined by dividing the sum of the number of transitions from shortening to growth or pause by the time spent shortening (per second) (CITATION) . 39% of cells observed by time-lapse microscopy exhibited microtubule dynamics. Dynamicity (CITATION) was calculated from the total length that microtubules elongated and shortened divided by the total life span of the microtubules involved. Growing and shortening lengths were calculated using a conversion factor of 1 μm of microtubule length to 1,690 tubulin dimers (CITATION) . The net polymerization/depolymerization value was calculated as the average rate of polymerization (μm min−1) × total time spent growing (min)/average rate of depolymerization (μm min−1) × total time spent shrinking (min). At3g47690 (AtEB1a), At5g62500 (AtEB1b) and At5g67270 (AtEB1c). Note: Supplementary Information is available on the Nature Cell Biology website.
