!~ABS~! Peroxisomes participate in many important functions in plants, including seed reserve mobilization, photorespiration, defense against oxidative stress, and auxin and jasmonate signaling. In mammals, defects in peroxisome biogenesis result in multiple system abnormalities, severe developmental delay, and death, whereas in unicellular yeasts, peroxisomes are dispensable unless required for growth of specific substrates. PEX10 encodes an integral membrane protein required for peroxisome biogenesis in mammals and yeast. To investigate the importance of PEX10 in plants, we characterized a Ds insertion mutant in the PEX10 gene of Arabidopsis (AtPEX10). Heterozygous AtPEX10::dissociation element mutants show normal vegetative phenotypes under optimal growth conditions, but produce about 20% abnormal seeds. The embryos in the abnormal seeds are predominantly homozygous for the disruption allele. They show retarded development and some morphological abnormalities. No viable homozygous mutant plants were obtained. AtPEX10 fused to yellow fluorescent protein colocalized with green fluorescent protein-serine-lysine-leucine, a well-documented peroxisomal marker, suggesting that AtPEX10 encodes a peroxisomal protein that is essential for normal embryo development and viability.
!~RES~! Previously, we have isolated a cDNA encoding a protein with 47% to 56% sequence similarity to the product of the PEX10 gene from mammals and fungi, and we have shown that it is encoded by a single genomic locus, At2g26350 (CITATION; CITATION). To investigate whether AtPEX10 is a true ortholog of the PEX10 gene of mammals and fungi, we examined its subcellular localization by fusing it to the yellow fluorescent protein (YFP; Fig. 1).   [[FIGURE]] AtPEX10-YFP was expressed transiently in tobacco leaf epidermal cells and was visualized using confocal microscopy. AtPEX-YFP located to punctate spherical structures similar in size to plant peroxisomes (0.5-1.5 μm; Fig. 1, A and D). Low laser settings of the microscope allowed us to identify the distribution of the YFP fluorescence toward the rim of some of these spherical structures (Fig. 1D, compare with inset in H from GFP-SKL expression). Tobacco leaf peroxisomes generally contain catalase crystals, which may explain the pattern of fluorescence. These structures showed distinct behaviors being stationary or moving over a few microns or more (Fig. 1, E-G), all of which are characteristic of peroxisome movement in Arabidopsis and onion (Allium cepa; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To investigate the nature of the structures highlighted by AtPEX10-YFP, we transiently expressed in tobacco leaf epidermal cells a green fluorescent protein (GFP) fused to the C-terminal tripeptide Ser-Lys-Leu (SKL), a common signal sequence for peroxisomal matrix proteins. A YFP-SKL fusion has already been used in Arabidopsis and onion as an in vivo marker for peroxisomes (CITATION). In leaf epidermal cells, GFP-SKL fluorescence highlighted spherical structures similar to those visualized with a AtPEX10-YFP fusion (Fig. 1, H-J). To confirm the identity of the AtPEX10-YFP structures with peroxisomes, we cotransformed tobacco leaf epidermal cells with cultures of A. tumefaciens containing binary vectors AtPEX10-YFP and GFP-SKL. Confocal observation of cells coexpressing both constructs revealed colocalization of fluorescence due to expression of the AtPEX10-YFP with GFP-SKL (Fig. 1, K-N). Similar results were also obtained when the AtPEX10-YFP construct was transiently expressed in Arabidopsis plants that had been stably transformed with a peroxisomal targeted GFP (the A5 line described by CITATION; data not shown). These results allowed us to conclude that the AtPEX10-YFP fusion localizes to peroxisomes. The tissue expression profile of AtPEX10 was determined by reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR (Fig. 2). Total RNA was extracted from green leaves, senescent leaves, roots, siliques, stems, and flowers and was reverse transcribed and amplified with PEX10 gene-specific primers P4 and P11 (see Fig. 3A). AtPEX10 transcript was detected in all tissues tested. AtPEX10 expression was also detected in seedlings by northern blotting, with maximal expression occurring at d 1 and 2 after imbibition (data not shown). This is in good agreement with the expression profile of other PEX genes from Arabidopsis (CITATION).   [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]] A potential Ds insertion mutant in At2g26350 (AtPEX10) was reported among a population of sequenced insertion sites (CITATION). Seed from this line (SGT3777; NASC stock no. N100156 we refer to here as the T0 generation) were ordered and selected on kanamycin. The site of insertion was confirmed by sequencing PCR products amplified from genomic DNA from T0 plants, using AtPEX10-and Ds-specific primers (Fig. 3A). The Ds insert in AtPEX10 is located in exon four, 599 bp downstream of the ATG (Fig. 3A), and is in the opposite orientation to the AtPEX10 gene. This orientation should result in an AtPEX10-β-glucuronidase (GUS) transcriptional fusion, as the Ds element carries a GUS gene trap with splice acceptor and donor sites in all three reading frames (CITATION). Unfortunately, no GUS activity could be detected in any tissues tested (data not shown). The Ds insertion is predicted to result in a severely truncated protein that lacks the RING domain and both predicted transmembrane domains (Fig. 3B). Therefore, it is unlikely that the truncated protein will be correctly inserted into the peroxisome membrane. Southern-blot analysis of the Atpex10 line showed a single Ds insertion within the genome in AtPEX10 (data not shown). Three hundred and fifty-five seeds from a selfed heterozygous Atpex10 plant selected on kanamycin resulted in 240 kanamycin-resistant and 105 kanamycin-sensitive seedlings. Therefore, the ratio of kanamycin-resistant to -sensitive seed approximates 2:1 instead of the 3:1 ratio expected for the segregation of a single dominant marker. Forty T1 progeny from two selfed heterozygous T0 plants were genotyped by PCR. Examples of seven individuals are shown along with a wild-type control (Fig. 3C). In total, 14 wild-type and 26 heterozygous plants were obtained (1:2 ratio). No Atpex10 plants homozygous for the Atpex10 allele containing the Ds insert were present in the 40 plants analyzed. Peroxisomal β-oxidation is an essential metabolic pathway. It produces the energy and carbon skeletons required for seedling establishment by mobilizing stored lipids (triacylglycerol) in the seed. A number of β-oxidation mutants require Suc for seedling establishment (CITATION; Zolman et al., CITATION, CITATION; CITATION). To determine whether homozygous mutant plants simply fail to germinate, seed from a selfed heterozygous Atpex10 plant were compared with wild type for differences in germination levels (as defined by radicle emergence) in the presence and absence of 1% (w/v) Suc. No significant differences (at the 50% level of significance) were found between wild type and seed from the heterozygous Atpex10 mutant in the presence or absence of Suc (data not shown). Establishment, defined as the ability to produce true foliage leaves within 18 d of plating, was also tested. The percentage of seedlings establishing without Suc from a selfed heterozygote was low, but not significantly different (10% level of significance) compared with wild type (34.6% established for WT without Suc compared with 48.8% [χ2 = 2.19; P > 0.1] and 35.2% [χ2 = 0.95; P > 0.1] for seedlings from two selfed heterozygous plants). Therefore, the lack of homozygous mutant plants cannot be explained by failure to germinate or establish in the absence of Suc. Heterozygous plants grew normally and did not differ in appearance from wild-type plants grown along side them. Similarly, transmission electron micrographs of transverse sections through mesophyll cells treated with a peroxisomal cytochemical stain diaminobenzidine revealed no obvious difference in the ultrastructure of cotyledon cells of heterozygous Atpex10 and wild-type seedlings (data not shown). Additionally, the morphology of the peroxisomes, mitochondria, and chloroplasts appear unaltered from wild type, and are all closely associated. Heterozygote and wild-type seedlings showed similar sensitivity to 2,4-dichlorophenoxybutyric acid (2,4-DB; data not shown), a herbicide that is bioactivated by peroxisomal β-oxidation and inhibits root growth (CITATION), suggesting that the heterozygous mutants have no detectable defect in β-oxidation. Developing seed from three heterozygous and one wild-type selfed plant were analyzed. During Arabidopsis seed development, the external appearance of the immature seed changes from white to green, and then browns before seed release. Immature seed within a single silique develop at approximately the same rate, therefore, abnormal seed appear white, or brown and shriveled in comparison with normal green developing seed (Fig. 4A; CITATION). Ten siliques were removed from each plant, and the developing seeds were removed and scored for abnormalities in external morphology. Approximately 300 seeds per plant were counted. The average frequency of abnormal seeds per silique for a heterozygous plant was 19.4%, whereas only 1.9% of seed from siliques from wild-type plants were abnormal (Fig. 4B). The levels of abnormal seed seen in the three heterozygous Atpex10 mutant plants were found to be significantly different from wild-type levels at the 0.1% level of significance (χ2 = 386.3, 253.5, and 357.1; P > 0.001).   [[FIGURE]] As no homozygous Atpex10 plants were identified in PCR genotype screens, and the segregation of wild-type to heterozygous plants was 1:2, it seemed likely that the missing homozygous mutants might be found among the embryos in the abnormal seed. Seeds were classified as normal or abnormal on the basis of morphological appearance, and the embryos cleanly dissected away from the surrounding endosperm tissue. Single-embryo PCR was carried out with two primer pairs, EM1 and EM2, and GUS1 and GUS2 (Figs. 3A and 4C). Results from four morphologically abnormal embryos and four normal embryos are shown in Figure 4C. All of the abnormal embryos contain only the disruption allele, demonstrating that they are homozygous for the Atpex10 gene. One of the normal embryos contains only the wild-type allele-specific band of 755 bp, whereas the remaining three contain 755 bp and 1.4 kbp bands and are therefore heterozygous. Forty embryos were genotyped in total; 31 classified as morphologically abnormal and nine as normal. Twenty-nine of the 31 abnormal embryos were homozygous mutants, the remaining two were heterozygotes. Of the nine embryos that appeared normal, three were wild type, four were heterozygotes, and two were homozygous mutants. These results indicated that a large proportion of the homozygous mutant population are morphologically abnormal, although the presence of two homozygous mutants among the morphologically normal embryos suggest that some may develop further than others. However, the results from germination tests and genotyping adult plants indicate that these embryos do not give rise to viable seed. To investigate the developmental abnormalities associated with the homozygous Atpex10 mutation, developing seeds were examined by light microscopy using Normarski optics. Developing seeds from siliques from selfed heterozygous Atpex10 plants were removed. Morphologically abnormal seeds were compared with seeds of normal appearance from the same silique. In all cases, abnormal embryos were at an earlier developmental stage than the normal embryos from the same silique. Figure 5B shows an embryo from a normal seed at the torpedo stage of development (about 4.5 d after flowering under our growth conditions), whereas Figure 5C shows an abnormal embryo from the same silique at the earlier globular stage normally seen around 2.5 d after flowering. Figure 5D shows a normal embryo from a different silique at the curled cotyledon stage (more than 5 d after flowering), whereas abnormal embryos from this silique (Fig. 5E) and staged siliques from the same time point (Fig. 5, F-H) ranged from globular to heart stages. These and further observations from staged siliques demonstrate that the abnormal embryos do not arrest at a single developmental time point, but appear to develop more slowly and eventually abort. Genotyping of embryos by PCR indicated that some homozygous mutant embryos could develop at least as far as the torpedo stage. Seed-containing embryos at the torpedo stage of development begin to green. Embryos from green seed were removed and genotyped, but their developmental stage was not recorded, and could therefore have been more advanced than the torpedo stage. This result suggests that the phenotype of Atpex10 homozygous mutants should be classified as variable using the classification of McElver et al. (CITATION). Some evidence of developmental abnormalities was seen in some embryos. Comparison between Figure 5, E and G, indicates Figure 5G is an enlarged globular stage embryo. Similar comparison between Figure 5, F and H, indicates the embryo in Figure 5H is an enlarged heart stage embryo. Additional observations made during dissection of embryos from their seed coat for PCR analysis indicated some also displayed unevenly sized cotyledons (data not shown). Enlarged or abnormal embryos are a fairly common occurrence in embryo-lethal mutants, for example, acc1-1, defective in a cytosolic acetyl CoA carboxylase (CITATION). Likewise, a homozygous insertion in AtCSLA7, a cellulose synthase-like putative glycosyl transferase, was embryo lethal and resulted in slower development compared with wild type (CITATION).   [[FIGURE]] Wild-type developing seeds were studied to determine whether AtPEX10 expression early in embryogenesis occurred. Total RNA was extracted from whole wild-type seed-containing embryos at the early globular stage of development (Fig. 5A). RTPCR with AtPEX10-specific primers followed by Southern blotting with an AtPEX10-specific probe showed that AtPEX10 is expressed at this developmental stage (Fig. 5A). This is consistent with a lack of AtPEX10 leading to defects in development. To determine whether abnormal embryos still had peroxisomes, cleanly dissected embryos at the heart-torpedo stage were fixed and embedded for electron microscopy. No peroxisomes could be identified even after cytochemical staining with diaminobenzidine. However, the cellular ultrastructure was highly abnormal. In some cases, nuclei were visible with prominent nucleoli. The nuclei were clearly surrounded by a double membrane but this was highly distended with gaps of up to 0.27 μm between the two membranes. The cytoplasm was packed with heterogeneous vesicles, and no other organelles could be identified with confidence. It seemed likely that these cells were dying and no conclusions could be drawn about the presence or absence of peroxisomes (data not shown). Plants heterozygous for the Atpex10 disruption allele were transformed with a wild-type genomic copy of AtPEX10. Two plants (C1A and C4A) resistant to hygromycin, the selectable marker for the transgene, were recovered. PCR analysis indicated that they were transformed heterozygous individuals (data not shown). To determine whether the AtPEX10 transgene complemented the embryo-lethal phenotype, two criteria were tested. The first criterion was to test whether the levels of aborted seed were reduced to that expected for complemented plants, and the second criterion was whether homozygous plants could be grown from the complemented seeds. The former was tested by dissecting 10 siliques from C4A and C1A self-fertilized plants, and scoring for the number of abnormal versus normal seeds. The percentage of abnormal seeds per silique was determined and the average of 10 siliques was taken. Results indicate that the levels of abnormal seeds per silique from selfed C1A (4.47%) and C4A (1.39%) plants is similar to that expected for complemented plants carrying one (6.25%) or two (1.56%) copies of the transgene, respectively. T2 seeds harvested from self-fertilized C4A and C1A plants were selected on kanamycin, and the resistant progeny were genotyped. Genomic DNA extracted from the resistant progeny was amplified with primers specific for the transgene or for the chromosomal copy of AtPEX10 (data not shown). Out of the eight plants tested, two lacked the chromosomal copy of AtPEX10 and were kanamycin resistant. These two individuals are homozygous for the Ds insertion allele. Therefore, the embryo-lethal phenotype can be complemented by the AtPEX10 gene, giving rise to adult plants.
!~MM~! Seeds were imbibed and germinated on Murashige and Skoog salts (2.36 g L-1), plant agar (0.8 g L-1; Ducheva, Haarlem, Netherlands) with kanamycin (50 μg mL-1) or hygromycin (30 μg mL-1) selection where specified, or 1% (w/v) Suc. Carbenicillin (0.5 mg mL-1) and amphotericin B (2.5 μg mL-1) were included in all seedling media except for selection with hygromycin. Seedlings were carefully removed from tissue culture, planted in compost, and kept under propagators in short-day conditions (18°C, 8-h light photoperiod). Propagators were removed after approximately 1 week and the plants were kept in short-day conditions for around 3 to 4 weeks or until flowering was required. After this time, the plants were transferred to long-day growth conditions (22°C, 16-h light photoperiod). For GFP-SKL generation and subcloning into a binary vector (pVKH18En6; CITATION), we amplified GFP from pLL4:cGFP5 (CITATION) with ExTaq (TaKara, Kyoto) using a forward-strand primer (5′-CGATCTAGAGCAGATCGATGAGTAAAGGAGAAGAACTTTTCACTGGAG-3′) and a reverse primer containing the necessary codons encoding for Ser-Lys-Leu and a stop codon (reverse-strand 5′-GCTGAGCTCGGCTAAAGTTTTGATTTGTATAGTTCATCCATGCCATGTG-3′). The XbaI-GFP5-SKL-SacI PCR fragment was cloned into pGEM-T easy (Promega, Madison, WI) and was sequenced before being subcloned into the multiple cloning site of pVKH18En6. The AtPEX10 CDS was amplified from AtPEX10 cDNA (accession no. AJ276134) using gateway primers (forward-strand 5′-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTTAGAAACGATGAGGCTTAATGGGGAT-3′, reverse-strand 5′-GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTTAAAATCAGAATGATACAAACA-3′) with Pfx proof-reading DNA polymerase (Invitrogen, Paisley, UK). The PCR product was cloned into pGEM T-easy (Promega) and was sequenced before being inserted into the gateway donor vector pDONR207 (Invitrogen) via the gateway BP reaction. The fragment was then transferred into the pCAMBIA 1300-YFP (5′-35S promoter-cassette B-eYFP-nos terminator) destination vector (described below) using the gateway LR reaction. The pCAMBIA 1300-YFP binary gateway destination vector contains the following construct: 5′-cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter-gateway cassette B-eYFP-NOS terminator. The CaMV35S promoter (800 bp) and nopaline synthase terminator (250 bp) DNA fragments in this construct originate from pBI121 (CITATION). The GUS reporter gene located downstream of the 35S promoter in pBI121 was replaced by PCR-amplified enhanced YFP (eYfp, accession no. AF242870) using BamHI and SacI restriction sites. The eYFP fragment was amplified with the following oligonucleotides: forward strand, 5′-ATCGGATCCCGGGATGGTGAGCAAGGGCGAGGA, reverse strand, 5′-CTAGAGCTCACTTGTACAGCTCGTCCAT. The 5′ ends of the oligomers contain, respectively, BamHI and SacI restriction sites to enable cloning into pBI121. The Cassette B DNA fragment (Invitrogen) was then placed upstream of eYFP into a SmaI restriction site present in the forward-strand oligonucleotide and was thus introduced during the previous cloning step. The entire 5′-CaMV 35S promoter-gateway cassette B-eYFP-nopaline synthase terminator construct was then transferred into the HindIII and EcoRI sites of pCAMBIA 1300 (8,958 bp). The DNA encoding for AtPEX10-YFP and GFP-SKL was transfected into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 (pMP90). Four-week-old tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) SR1 (cv Petit Havana) greenhouse plants grown at 21°C were used for A. tumefaciens-mediated transient expression (CITATION). A single colony from the transformants was inoculated into 5 mL of yeast extract broth medium (per liter: 5 g of beef extract, 1 g of yeast extract, 5 g Suc, and 0.5 g of MgSO4.7H2O), supplemented with appropriate antibiotics. The bacterial culture was incubated at 30°C with agitation for 20 h. Two hundred microliters of bacterial culture was then pelleted in a 1.5-mL tube by centrifugation at 2,200g for 5 min at room temperature. The pellet was washed once with 1 mL of infiltration medium (50 mm MES, 2 mm Na3PO4.12H2O, 1 mm acetosyringone, and 5 mg mL-1 Glc) and was then resuspended in 1 mL of the same buffer. For experiments requiring coexpression of two different constructs, 100 μL of each bacterial culture was mixed before the wash in infiltration medium. The bacterial suspension was inoculated using a 1-mL syringe without a needle by gentle pressure through the stomata on the lower epidermis surface. Transformed plants were then incubated under normal growth conditions. Transformed leaves were analyzed 24 to 48 h after infection of lower epidermal cells. An inverted laser scanning microscope (LSM 510; Zeiss, Jena, Germany) and a 63× oil immersion objective were used for confocal imaging. For imaging expression of GFP-SKL, excitation line of an argon ion laser of 488 nm was used with a 505- to 530-nm band pass filter in the single-track facility of the microscope. For imaging, expression of AtPEX10-YFP excitation line of an argon ion laser of 514 nm was used with a 530- to 600-nm band pass filter in the single-track facility of the microscope. For imaging coexpression of YFP and GFP constructs, excitation lines of an argon ion laser of 458 nm for GFP and 514 nm for YFP were used alternately with line switching using the multitrack facility of the microscope. The fluorescence was detected using a 458/514-nm dichroic beam splitter and a 475- to 525-nm band pass filter for GFP and a 560- to 615-nm band pass filter for YFP. Time-lapse scanning was acquired with LSM 510 imaging system software (Zeiss). Postacquisition image processing was with LSM 5 Image Browser (Zeiss) and Adobe Photoshop 5.0 software (Adobe Systems, Mountain View, CA). Approximately 100 developing seeds from the same staged time point were dissected from siliques, placed in approximately 100 μL of diethyl pyrocarbonate (DEPC)-treated water in a 1.5-mL tube, frozen in liquid nitrogen, and stored at -80°C. RNA was extracted by grinding the frozen sample with an Eppendorf grinder after adding equal volumes of phenol: chloroform and sand. Four hundred microliters of RNA extraction buffer (25 mm Tris-HCl, pH 8, 25 mm EDTA, pH 8, 75 mm NaCl, 1% [w/v] SDS, and 7.8% [v/v] β-mercaptoethanol) followed by 400 μL of phenol:chloroform was then added and centrifuged at 20,627g at room temperature for 10 min. The aqueous layer was removed to a clean tube, an equal volume of cold isopropanol was added, and the mixture was vortexed and centrifuged at 20,627g for 10 min at room temperature. The top phase was removed to a clean tube, 10 μg of glycogen was added, and it was mixed by inversion. One-third of the volume of 8 m LiCl was added (to give 2 m final concentration) and the mixture was kept at 4°C for 16 h. The sample was centrifuged at 20,627g for 15 min, supernatant was removed, and pellet was washed with 500 μL of cold 2 m LiCl and centrifuged for 10 min at 20,627g. The supernatant was discarded and the pellet was dissolved in 500 μL of DEPC water and incubated at 70°C for 10 min. The RNA was precipitated by adding 0.1 volumes 3 m sodium acetate and 2.5 volumes of 100% (w/v) ethanol, incubating on ice for 1 h, and centrifuging at 20,627g for 30 min. The resulting pellet was washed twice with 70% (w/v) ethanol and was dried in a speed vacuum. RNA was resuspended in DEPC-treated water, and one-half of the volume was used for RT-PCR. Genomic DNA was extracted from Arabidopsis whole plant tissue using the Nucleon phytopure plant DNA extraction kit (Amersham Life Sciences, Piscataway, NJ) and according to Edwards et al. (CITATION). PCR from whole plant tissue was carried out using 1× Taq polymerase buffer (Promega), 0.2 mm dNTPs, 0.2 μm primers, and 0.5 units of Taq polymerase (Promega). PCR amplification from DNA extracted from complemented plants was carried out using the ExTaq polymerase system (TaKara). Genomic DNA extraction and PCR amplification from embryos were carried out using the REDExtract-N-Amp plant PCR kit (Sigma, Poole, UK) with the following modifications. Extraction volumes were 20 μL of dilution and extraction buffers into an initial 25-μL sample volume. PCR amplification used 4 μL of embryo extract, 0.5 μm primers, and 10 μL of REDExtract-N-Amp mix in a final volume of 20 μL. Standard PCR cycling conditions were one cycle at 95°C for 1 min, five cycles at 94°C for 20 s, 63°C for 1 min, 72°C for 2 min; five cycles of 94°C for 20 s, 55°C for 1 min, 72°C for 2 min; and 30 cycles of 94°C for 20 s, 45°C for 1 min, 72°C for 2 min followed by a final extension of 72°C for 10 min. Embryo PCR and RT-PCR had an additional 10 cycles of the 45°C annealing temperature cycle. RT-PCR cycling conditions began with reverse transcription at 47°C for 40 min followed by 94°C for 2 min, which was immediately followed by the PCR cycling conditions. RNA from mature tissues was prepared by the method of Ausubel (CITATION), and 500 ng of total RNA was used for RT-PCR. RT-PCR was performed using the single-step Reverse-iT RT-PCR kit (AB-gene, Surrey, UK) as instructed by the manufacturers. Cycling conditions were one cycle for 2 min at 95°C; 30 cycles for 1 min at 94°C, for 1 min at 55°C, and for 2 min at 74°C; and one cycle for 10 min at 74°C. The primers used in this study were: P4, 5′-CCCATTGTGCCTAAAAATCAG-3′; P11, 5′-ATGAGGCTTAATGGGGATTCG-3′; P18; 5′-CGCTGAATAGCTCGGTGCCAC-3′; EM1, 5′-CGGTACAATTTTTCCGACACC-3′; EM2, 5′-GGTATACATTACCACAGGCC-3′; DS3, 5′-ACGGTCGGGAAACTAGCTCTA-3′; GUS1, 5′-GCAAGCTTGATGGTATCGGTGTGAGCGTCGC-3′; GUS2, 5′-GCTCTAGAGTCCTGTAGAAACCCCAACCCGTG-3′; PCAMRB, 5′-CAGGTCGACTCTAGAGGATC-3′; and OP10, 5′-CGAACACCTCATATGCGTTG-3′. The position of primers is shown schematically in Figure 3A and their use is described in the relevant section of the results. Developing seeds were dissected from siliques and prepared for Normarski microscopy according to Aida (CITATION). After preparation, the developing seed were placed onto a glass side with concave wells from Agar Scientific (Essex, UK) with clearing solution and a glass coverslip (22 × 22 mm, 1.5 mm thick) lowered on top. Normarski images were taken with a digital camera (C4742-95; Hamamatsu, Bridgewater, NJ) attached to a microscope (Axiovert 135; Zeiss). Embryos were dissected from the developing seed according to Scott et al. (CITATION) except that embryos were dissected into sterile water (purified using an Elga reverse-osmosis water purifier), not 1 m KOH. Dissection and images were taken using a dissecting microscope (MZ12; Leica, Deerfield, IL) with an camera (SLR; Olympus, Melville, NY) attached. Seedlings were harvested, stained, fixed, and sectioned for electron microscopy according to Frederick and Newcomb (CITATION). Microscopy was performed using a electron microscope (1200ex; JOEL, Tokyo). Binary vector pCAMBIA 1300 (pCAMBIA, Canberra, Australia) was digested with EcoRI and was ligated with a 7-kbp genomic fragment containing AtPEX10 isolated from EcoRI digestion of BAC T9J22. A. tumefaciens strain GV3101 (mp90) was transformed by electroporation with the binary vector and was selected on kanamycin. Arabidopsis plants were transformed by the floral dip method (CITATION), and transformants were selected on 30 μg mL-1 hygromycin (Sigma). Silwett l-77 was obtained from Lehle Seeds (Round Rock, TX). Upon request, all novel materials described in this publication will be made available in a timely manner for noncommercial research purposes, subject to the requisite permission from any third party owners of all or parts of the material. Obtaining any permissions will be the responsibility of the requestor.
