!~ABS~! Tetradecameric Clp protease core complexes in non-photosynthetic plastids of roots, flower petals, and in chloroplasts of leaves of Arabidopsis thaliana were purified based on native mass and isoelectric point and identified by mass spectrometry. The stoichiometry between the subunits was determined. The protease complex consisted of one to three copies of five different serine-type protease Clp proteins (ClpP1,3-6) and four non-proteolytic ClpR proteins (ClpR1-4). Three-dimensional homology modeling showed that the ClpP/R proteins fit well together in a tetradecameric complex and also indicated unique contributions for each protein. Lateral exit gates for proteolysis products are proposed. In addition, ClpS1,2, unique to land plants, tightly interacted with this core complex, with one copy of each per complex. The three-dimensional modeling show that they do fit well on the axial sites of the ClpPR cores. In contrast to plastids, plant mitochondria contained a single ∼320-kDa homo-tetradecameric ClpP2 complex, without association of ClpR or ClpS proteins. It is surprising that the Clp core composition appears identical in all three plastid types, despite the remarkable differences in plastid proteome composition. This suggests that regulation of plastid proteolysis by the Clp machinery is not through differential regulation of ClpP/R/S gene expression, but rather through substrate recognition mechanisms and regulated interaction of chaperone-like molecules (ClpS1,2 and others) to the ClpP/R core. 
!~RES~! The Complexity of the Clp Gene Family in A. thaliana—Our latest analysis of the sequenced A. thaliana nuclear genome indicates the presence of 26 Clp-related genes, with 19 genes predicted to encode for plastid- or mitochondrial proteins (Table I and Fig. 1A). An additional ClpP gene (P1) is located on the plastid genome. The subcellular localizations of 16 of these organellar proteins have been experimentally determined in this study and/or in earlier studies (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). Recently, a new protein, ClpS, was identified in E. coli. This bacterial ClpS binds to the N terminus of ClpA (CITATION) and affects substrate specificity. Interestingly, a homologue is also present in the A. thaliana genome (assigned here ClpT), and sequence analysis suggests chloroplast localization (see Table I). The bacterial ClpS protein is not related to ClpS1, which we identified as part of the chloroplast ClpPR complex (CITATION).  [[TABLE]]  The Clp gene family can be divided into three groups of ClpP/R (proteases), ClpC/D/B/F/S/Z/X (chaperones), and ClpT (modulator). The chaperone genes are predominantly located on chromosome 5, whereas the ClpP, -R, and -T genes are mostly on chromosome 1 (Fig. 1A). Analysis of the mitochondrial and plastid chaperones (ClpC1,2/D/B3/S1,2/X1,2,3) shows conservation of a I(L)GF motif combined with an upstream basic residue (Lys/Arg), in all sequences but ClpB3 (Fig. 1B). In ClpX of E. coli, this motif is implicated in interaction with the Clp core (CITATION). This suggests that eight of nine plastid and mitochondrial chaperones might interact with Clp cores, as will be further discussed below.  Nomenclature—Throughout this paper we will often refer to Clp proteins and genes from E. coli. For the sake of clarity and to save space, we will refer to all E. coli Clp proteins as eClp (e.g. eClpP, eClpA, etc). Unless otherwise specified, all other proteins are from A. thaliana.  Clp Cores and Chaperones in Chloroplasts of A. thaliana—In an earlier study, we identified an ∼350-kDa Clp core complex copurified with the thylakoid by “blue native” gel electrophoresis (BN-PAGE), followed by SDS-PAGE and MS (CITATION). Six Clp proteins (ClpP1-P6), three ClpR proteins (ClpR1-3), and a completely new protein, assigned ClpS1, were identified in this core complex. The heterogeneity of the Clp complex and the identification of a new Clp protein, ClpS1, was extremely surprising. At that time, we did not identify ClpR4 and ClpS2, both predicted to be targeted to the chloroplast. In the current study, by using native isoelectric focusing and a very “mild” native mass gel system, we identified the stromal Clp core complexes in chloroplasts, as well as non-photosynthetic plastids in roots and petals, and we reanalyzed the composition of the thylakoid-associated ClpPRS core.  Fig. 2, A and B, shows the two-dimensional separation of stromal and thylakoid-associated Clp cores with “colorless native” gel electrophoresis (CN-PAGE) as the first dimension. We changed from BN-PAGE to CN-PAGE, because this resulted in greater stability of several chloroplast protein complexes.2 All stained protein spots were analyzed by a combination of matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight MS (MALDI-TOF MS) and nano-LC-ESI-MS/MS. The purification of Clp complexes, their gel-based separation, and MS analysis were repeated several times. The relevant MS/MS data are listed in Table 1, A and B, of the Supplemental Material, whereas complementary MALDI-TOF MS data are not shown. The criteria for positive identification are described under “Experimental Procedures.”  [[FIGURE]]   We have indicated the Clp complex in Fig. 2, A and B, and also numbered the most abundant proteins around the Clp complex. About 95% of the Clp core was soluble in the stroma, and 5% was associated with the membrane. In both complexes, four ClpR proteins (ClpR1-4), two ClpS proteins (ClpS1,2), as well as five of six ClpP proteins (ClpP1 and ClpP3-P6) were identified by MS. Thus we now also identified ClpS2 and ClpR4 in the core complex. ClpP2 was also identified in the thylakoid-associated complex but not in the stromal complex. Further below, we demonstrate that this was because of a minor mitochondrial contamination. Protein spots in the area around the Clp complex were all identified by MS and were unrelated to the Clp machinery (Fig. 2, A and B).  The ClpC chaperone was identified in the stroma as a dimeric complex of ∼200 kDa (Fig. 2C). A very large number of sequence tags generated by MS/MS were identified, matching to both the C1 and C2 protein (Table 1C, Supplemental Material). A number of tags were unique for ClpC1, and none were unique to ClpC2. Thus the dimer certainly contained ClpC1 and probably not (or very little) ClpC2. We searched for ClpD and ClpB3, and a small gel spot with ClpB3 was found in the interface of the stacking gel of the CN-PAGE dimension (above 1000 kDa) (not shown).  Separation of Stromal Complexes by Sucrose Gradient Fractionation and Native Isoelectric Focusing (NIEF)—The chloroplast Clp complex always migrated on both the BN-PAGE and CN-PAGE gels as a single heteromeric complex of ∼325 kDa. However, it is still possible that the complex observed in the gels is in fact a mixture of different complexes with approximately the same mass. To elucidate this important point, stromal complexes were separated based on their native pI values, rather than native mass. If indeed Clp core complexes of different composition exist, they are likely to migrate at different pI values, because the predicted pI of the different processed ClpP,R and S subunits vary widely between 4.7 and 8.6 (Table II).  [[TABLE]]  Stromal complexes were first separated by sucrose density gradient centrifugation, to allow removal of the majority of the very abundant 550-kDa ribulose-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase complex. This helped to improve the identification of a possible heterogeneous Clp core population. The fractions containing the Clp complexes (between ∼250 and 450 kDa) were collected and separated on native IEF tube gels with a pI from 3 to 10, followed by SDS-PAGE. Extensive MALDI-TOF MS and nano-LC-ESI-MS/MS analysis of all visible protein spots indicated that all Clp complexes migrated between pI 4 and 6 in a narrow pI range (data not shown). The sucrose gradient fractions were then analyzed on a narrower pI range gel (from 3.5 to 7) to improve resolution. Fig. 3A shows the chloroplast Clp complex migrating at pI of ∼5.0. Extensive MS analysis showed that it contained the same set of 11 Clp proteins, similarly as the ∼325-kDa complex separated based on native mass (Fig. 2A). This suggests that there is a single Clp core complex with the same subunit composition. It is, however, possible that there is a mixture of Clp core complexes with the same composition but with different spatial arrangements (positions of the Clp subunits in the rings) or, less likely, that minor differences in composition do not affect the native pI value. But it is unlikely that there are Clp complexes with a strongly reduced complexity, because they would likely have been separated, based on either native mass or native pI value.  [[FIGURE]]  Stoichiometry of Plastid ClpP/R/S Proteins—The E. coli eClpP core is formed by two rings of seven eClpP proteins each. Based on our modeling work in this paper (see further below), we infer that the plastid ClpP/R proteins form a similar ring structure and that ClpS1 and -S2 cannot form part of this ring structure but instead are peripherally associated. Thus the plastid ClpP/R core must contain 14 ClpP/R proteins. Given the presence of 9 different ClpP/R proteins, this means that a number of ClpP/R proteins are present in more than one copy. We thus set out to determine the stoichiometry of the core subunits in the Clp complex. This is a rather challenging task because the 11 proteins migrate very closely together in the range of 22 to 29 kDa. Stromal Clp cores were separated by CN-PAGE, followed by high resolution SDS-PAGE with 9-15% acrylamide (Fig. 3B). Coomassie staining and nano-LC-ESI-MS/MS analysis indicated that ClpS1, ClpS2, and ClpR2 now separated as individual spots. The integrated staining intensities (staining volumes) of these pure proteins were quantified by image analysis and indicated that the staining volumes of ClpS1 and ClpS2 are very comparable. For the conversion of these staining volumes into molar ratios, it is important to take the amino acid composition into consideration, because both silver and Coomassie stain bind preferentially to either Lys (for silver) or Lys, His, Tyr, and Arg residues (for Coomassie). Table II lists the number of these residues for all Clp core proteins. ClpS1 and -S2 have both a total of 31 Lys + Arg + His + Tyr amino acid residues, and the Coomassie staining volumes are thus proportional to their molar ratios. This indicates that ClpS1 and -S2 are present in equal molar ratios in the Clp core population. The staining volume of the pure ClpR2 spot was about 1.5 times higher than for ClpS1 or ClpS2 (Fig. 3B). However, ClpR2 has a total of 42 Lys, Arg, His, and Tyr residues, and its molecular size is ∼26 kDa, whereas the apparent molecular mass of the ClpS proteins is ∼22 kDa. Together, this suggest that the ClpR2:ClpS1:ClpS2 molar ratio is ∼1.5 × 31/42 × 22/26 = ∼0.93:1:1. We thus conclude that ClpR2, ClpS1, and CpS2 are present in approximately equal molar ratios.  Because the other spots contained mixtures of the other Clp proteins, we sought further separation. Purified Clp cores on native gels were separated first by SDS-PAGE with 9-15% acrylamide, and then the gel lane was incubated in SDS and urea and separated by SDS-PAGE with 13-20% acrylamide (Fig. 3C). Protein spots were stained with Coomassie, but because staining was relatively weak, they were destained and then restained with MS-compatible silver stain (CITATION). Both images were quantified, and spots were subsequently identified by nano-LC-ESI-MS/MS. Now ClpR2, ClpR4, and ClpP4 were separated as individual spots, whereas ClpP1, -P5, and -P6 were still partially overlapping, as were ClpP3, -R1, and -R3. The staining volume of ClpR2 was about 30% of ClpR4 and -P4. The staining volume of ClpR4 and ClpP4 and their molecular masses are approximately identical. However, ClpR4 has 21 lysine residues, whereas ClpP4 has only 12. This suggests that the molar ratio between ClpP4 and ClpR4 is about 2:1. ClpR2 has 11 Lys residues, nearly the same as ClpP4, and ClpR2 is only 1-2 kDa smaller than ClpP4. Given the 30% staining volume of ClpR2 as compared with ClpP4, this suggests that the molar ratio between ClpP4 and ClpR2 is about 3:1. In our earlier paper (CITATION), we suggested that ClpP5 is probably more abundant than ClpP6 and ClpP1, which was based on multiple strongly dominating peptide ions derived from ClpP5 in both MALDI-TOF MS and ESI-MS/MS. Indeed as shown in Fig. 3C, ClpP5 was found in three adjacent spots, whereas P1 and P6 were found together in one spot. Most likely, ClpP1 and -P6 run closely together in this spot, with the presence of ClpP5 being a minor contamination from the adjacent pure ClpP5 spots. Considering that ClpP5 has only 8 Lys and that the total staining volume of the two spots with pure ClpP5 is about 50% of those of R4 and P4, we suggest that the molar ratio between ClpP5 and ClpP4 is at least ∼0.5 × 12/8 × 27/23 = ∼0.88:1. Taken these data together, we conclude that the approximate molar stoichiometries between P4:P5:R4:R2:S1:S2 is about 3:3:2:1:1:1:1.  Considering all gels, the low lysine content of ClpP1 and ClpP6, and the comparable number of sequence tags obtained by MS/MS from both P1 and P6, we speculate that ClpP1 and -P6 are present at approximately equal molar ratios to each other and ClpS1 and ClpS2. ClpP3,R1,R3 clustered together in most gels and the staining volume both in Coomassie and silver stain seems quite similar or somewhat less than of ClpP4 + -R4. We tentatively suggest that the molar ratio between the sum of P3 + R1 + R3 is comparable with the sum of ClpP4 + -R4. This roughly leads to a approximate stoichiometry of P4:P5:R4:R2:(P3 + R1 + R3):P1:P6:S1:S2 = 3:3:2:1:(3):1:1:1:1, totaling 16 proteins per core (including S1 and S2).  Clp Cores in Plastids of Roots and Petals in the Genus Brassica—Plastids have a large number of biochemical functions and are present in both photosynthetic tissues (leaves and stems) and non-photosynthetic tissues, such as roots and flowers. The proteome composition between non-photosynthetic and photosynthetic plastids is very different3 and might require different proteolytic systems. One could expect that the expressed Clp machinery is different in these non-photosynthetic plastid types, as compared with the chloroplast Clp complex as an adjustment to the substrate requirements. We therefore determined the Clp composition in non-photosynthetic plastids from roots and (white) flower petals from B. rapa and B. oleracea, respectively (Fig. 4, A and B). Due to the much larger size of their roots and flowers, respectively, they are a much better source for purification of non-photosynthetic plastids than A. thaliana. These Brassica species and A. thaliana belong to the Brassicaceae family, and their proteomes share a very high degree of protein sequence identity. Alignment of the genomic sequences of several Clp genes in B. oleracea (www.tigr.org/tdb/e2k1/bog1/) and A. thaliana indicates an average sequence identity of more than 90% between processed Clp orthologues (not shown). We are therefore confident that the correct (“true”) orthologue was identified when searching the A. thaliana data base with MS/MS data from B. rapa and B. oleracea proteins.   [[FIGURE]]  Plastids were isolated from B. rapa roots and B. oleracea petals (petals were collected manually from plants in the green house) using newly developed protocols. The soluble stromal proteomes from both plastid types were separated by CN-PAGE in the 1st dimension, followed by SDS-PAGE. The ∼250 most abundant proteins were identified by MALDI-TOF MS and nano-LC-ESI-MS/MS (not shown). The protein patterns of these two-dimensional gels showed that the Clp protease is the most abundant stromal protease in non-photosynthetic plastids, similarly as in the chloroplast (Figs. 2 and 4).3 Fig. 4, A and B, shows the region of complexes between 200-500 kDa, and at this mass resolution, one Clp core was found for both organs. ClpP1,3-6, ClpR1-4, and ClpS1,2 were all identified in these complexes by MS/MS. The MS/MS data are summarized in the Table 2, A and B, of the Supplemental Material. ClpP2 was found in root plastids but not in flower plastids, most likely due to a minor contamination of mitochondria (see below). Similarly as for the chloroplast stroma, ClpC was identified as an ∼200-kDa complex in both plastid types (spot 8 in lower panels of Fig. 4, A and B), and similarly as in chloroplast, the ClpC1 (rather than ClpC2) was the main species. ClpB3 was identified as a soluble ∼200-kDa dimer in petal plastids (spot 7 in Fig. 4A, lower panel). We do want to point out that glucan phosphorylase (At3g29330) was present as a ∼200-kDa complex on the stromal maps of all three plastid types (Figs. 2C and 4, A and B, lower panels), and forms an excellent reference for this region of the gels.  We then separated stromal proteomes of both non-photosynthetic plastids by NIEF (Fig. 4C). In both plastids, the Clp core complex migrated as a single complex in a very focused manner, strongly supporting the results from CN-PAGE.  The Clp Core in Mitochondria of Potato Tubers—To investigate the Clp machinery in plant mitochondria, potato tubers were used as a rich and established source of pure mitochondria. The soluble matrix proteome was separated by CN-PAGE, and all stained protein spots were analyzed by MS (not shown). ClpP2 was identified by nano-ESI-MS/MS only in one location on the two-dimensional gel (Fig. 5), suggesting that ClpP2 forms an ∼320-kDa complex (Supplemental Material Table 3). The sequence alignment between ClpP2 of A. thaliana and Solanum tuberosum (constructed from overlapping ESTs; e.g. gi 21917555) indicated an 86% identity over 196 amino acid residues, with much less sequence identity to the other A. thaliana Clp proteins (not shown). Protein spots in the area above and below ClpP2 were all identified by MS/MS and were 23/26-kDa heat shock proteins and ATP synthase subunits, all unrelated to the Clp machinery (Supplemental Material Table 3). No evidence was found for accumulation of any other ClpP,R,S proteins, other than ClpP2, as expected from localization prediction (Table I) and Western blotting for ClpP2 (CITATION). Thus, the plant mitochondrial Clp core is homomeric in composition, similar as in other eukaryotes (CITATION). The presence of ClpX chaperones subunits (ClpX1-3) is under investigation.  [[FIGURE]]  Because ClpP2 was found in the thylakoid fraction and in root plastids, and because the subcellular localization prediction is ambiguous, we verified localization of ClpP2 by using an approach not dependent on purification of organelles. We therefore cloned the full-length cDNA directly upstream of the gene encoding for green fluorescent protein, and we transformed tobacco leaves with this construct under the control of a strong constitutive promoter by biolistic bombardment. The ClpP2:GFP fusion protein was transiently expressed in tobacco leaves. Cells expressing ClpP2:GFP showed green fluorescence in globular structures identified as mitochondria (Fig. 5B). Clearly, all the green fluorescence was excluded from the chloroplasts, identifiable by the red autofluorescence. As a positive control for mitochondrial targeted GFP, we used the coxIV:mGFP4 fusion protein from Ref. CITATION (Fig. 5C).  Compatibility between the ClpP/R Proteins and Unique Contributions—To investigate the structural compatibility of the different ClpP/R proteins, unique structural contributions of the different ClpP/R/S subunits, and to determine the location of ClpS in the Clp complex, we used the structural information of the homotetradecameric ClpP core complex at 2.3-Å resolution (PDB code 1TYF) (CITATION, CITATION) and the ClpA N-domain (PDB code 1K6K) at 1.8-Å resolution (CITATION) in E. coli by x-ray crystallography.  The six ClpPs and four ClpRs proteins from A. thaliana are homologous to eClpP for most of the sequence lengths, with the exception of 9 or 10 residue insertions in ClpR1,3,4 and extended C termini for several ClpP/R proteins (Table II and Fig. 6). The x-ray crystal structure of 1TYF was used as a template to build three-dimensional models for all ClpP/R proteins. The 9/10 residue insertions (assigned L1 insertions) occur at equivalent sequence positions with reference to the template 1TYF (positions 70-80, in Fig. 6). To model these insertions and the extended C termini, we identified structural neighbors of 1TYF using the combinatorial extension method (CITATION). Among these structures are the monomeric units of both, 4-chlorobenzoyl-coenzyme A dehalogenase (PDB code 1NZY) and D3,D2-enoyl-CoA isomerase ECI1 (PDB code 1HNO). These proteins show very little sequence identity with eClpP, despite their very high structural similarities with 1TYF (see Fig. 6). Modeling the non-catalytic monomers ClpR1,3,4 (Fig. 7A for ClpR1) indicates that the insertion loop L1 replaces some of the residues forming the oxyanion hole in the catalytic units and lies over the catalytic clefts between the head domains and the handles, i.e. they fill the volume between strands 4 and 9 (strand numbering follows the convention of Ref. CITATION) that constitutes the substrate-binding pocket in the catalytic units. Sequence alignments of the monomers of 1TYF, 1NZY, 1HNO based on the structural alignment obtained from the combinatorial extension method and the BLAST alignments of the ClpP/R sequences with the eClpP sequence are shown in Fig. 6. Information about the secondary structure elements (α-helices and β-strands) is also indicated.  [[FIGURE]]  [[FIGURE]]  The extended C termini the ClpP/R proteins could be modeled using 1NZY and 1HNO because they share a well defined pattern at their C-terminal ends formed by two to four α-helical fragments. Modeling suggests that the extended C termini present in ClpP3-5 and ClpR1-4 can form α-helical structures that can fold over the top of the barrel-like core structure. An example for a three-dimensional model is shown for ClpR1 superimposed on eClpP (Fig. 7A).  After constructing reliable three-dimensional models for all ClpP and ClpR monomers, we created models for different hetero-tetradecameric plastid Clp cores, as well as for the homo-tetradecameric ClpP2 core from mitochondria (Fig. 7, B and C). All possible contacts between different types of monomers (each unit is in contact with 4 others) were generated and indicated that the different ClpP and CpR proteins could be part of the same tetradecameric ring structure, without obvious incompatibilities. The root mean square deviations of the Cα atomic positions (Cα r.m.s.d.) obtained after optimal superposition of the structures of the template 1TYF and the ClpP/R models are low (see Table II), showing that the models are highly reliable. All models were carefully analyzed by visual inspection and validated using the program WHAT_CHECK (CITATION).  Putative Lateral Openings in the Clp Core—Sequence conservation of two Arg residues present in all ClpP/R proteins motivated us to look into their three-dimensional environment in 1TYF and the modeled proteolytic ClpPR cores. Careful analysis of this part of the structures suggests putative lateral openings that connect the interior of the central cavity with the outside (Fig. 8, A and B). Two types of putative exits/entrances can be observed.  The first type (Fig. 8, A and B, pink arrows) is located at the interface of the two rings, and it is formed by residues contributed by four different units, i.e. two from each ring (Fig. 8C), with a total of 7 openings per core. These openings measure ∼8 Å in diameter and are remarkably polar. The type of residues lining the opening varies, depending on the ClpP/R monomers that contribute to the site. However, two conserved Arg residues are present in all ClpP/R and contributed to these openings by opposite monomers (A and N in Fig. 8A). One of these Arg residue precedes the catalytic Asp residue (Asp-171 using the 1TYF residue numbering) in all ClpP proteins. We also observed that the insertion loops L1 in ClpR1,3,4 can contribute with additional polar residues to flank the internal lips of the polar opening when the monomers are located in any of the two positions shown in blue in the diagram shown in Fig. 8C. All combinations of monomers maintain the polar character of this putative opening with the only exception of ClpR3. A two-residue insertion (Leu-123 and Met-124) in ClpR3 may block or partially close this opening when ClpR3 occupies the two positions shown in red in the diagram (Fig. 8C). We suggest that these polar openings may provide fast exit routes for the proteolytic products (see “Discussion”).  The second type of putative opening (Fig. 7, A and B, yellow arrows) occurs between the two closest catalytic sites located in neighboring monomers on the same ring, thus with 14 putative openings per core. The walls of these putative openings are formed largely by residues located in helices D and E in the first monomer and residues in strands 6, 8, and 10 in the second monomer. A large number of hydrophobic residues flank the internal walls of these putative channels, and fluctuations of the side chains of these residues can provide an oval-like opening with maximum and minimum radii of about 10 and 7 Å, respectively.    [[FIGURE]]  Modeling of ClpS1,2 and Their Interaction with the Plastid ClpPR Core—Searches with BLAST and the 3DPSSM threading tool for ClpS1,2 indicate excellent sequence-to-structure alignments (95% certainty) with the N-terminal domain of eClpA (PDB 1K6K), recently deposited by Guo et al. (CITATION). This N-terminal domain is assigned here as the “N domain.” The alignments (Fig. 9) were used to build three-dimensional models of ClpS1,2.  [[FIGURE]]  The models of ClpS1,2 (ClpS1 in Fig. 10) show that most of the hydrophobic residues (in green, Fig. 10A) constitute the central core of the structure and are probably important for structural reasons only. On the other hand, conserved residues Arg-18, Glu-28, Arg-57, and Ser-118 may be involved in functional aspects of ClpS. Our conclusions are based on the following: (a) the accessibility of these residues (surface-exposed residues), and (b) on the x-ray experimental structure of the N-terminal domain of eClpA bound to eClpS (PDB code 1MBU) of Ref. CITATION that shows the equivalent Glu-28 and Ser-118 (same residue numbers in monomers A and B of 1MBU) interacting with eClpS. The latter x-ray crystal complex also shows that two loops in eClpA provide most of the surface of interaction with eClpS. The equivalent loops in ClpS involve loop LL1 from Arg-18 to Glu-28 in ClpS1 and loop LL2 from Asp-68 to Leu-80 in ClpS2. Residues in these two loops are shown in magenta and orange, respectively (Fig. 10C). It should be noted that only the first loop, LL1, involving residues Arg-18 to Glu-28, is inside the region recognized as the N domain.  [[FIGURE]]  Given that the modeled structures of the ClpS proteins are quite different in shape from the ClpP/R proteins, it is highly unlikely that ClpS1,2 is part of the heptameric rings. In contrast, the surfaces of the Clp core and ClpS1,2 show a number of complementarities in shape and hydrophobicity/polarity. Our models of the proteolytic core show the hydrophobic P1 pockets (CITATION) near the axial entrances as possible regions for binding. As we mentioned above, our models for all the ClpP,R monomers, with the exception of ClpP1 and ClpP6, indicate that the P1 pockets may be occluded by the C termini of the monomers forming the site (Fig. 7, B and C, and Fig. 10). When exposed, the P1 grooves always show very good surface complementarity with the epitope formed by loops LL1 and LL2 in ClpS1,2 (Fig. 10, B and C). In addition, the highly aromatic characters of the P1 pockets on the core complex and the ClpS1,2 epitope (with two Tyr, two Glu, and four additional Pro residues; see alignment in Fig. 9) can provide the elements for a tight binding between the two molecules, whereas some of the conserved charged residues, e.g. Arg-18 and Glu-28 in ClpS1,S2 and Glu-64 in the ClpP,R, may provide the steering guidance to orient the two molecules during binding. The (I/L)GF motif, as mentioned earlier, might be involved in a different way of interaction. 
!~MM~! Plant Material and Protein Preparations—A. thaliana (Col 0) was grown under 10-h light/14-h dark cycles at 25/17 °C, and leaves were collected from mature rosettes. Flowers were collected from Brassica oleracea grown with supplemental lightning. Brassica rapa and potato tubers were purchased at local stores. Thylakoids and peripheral complexes from A. thaliana were purified according to Ref. CITATION, with minor modifications to improve thylakoid purity. Intact plastids were isolated from the various tissues by brief homogenization in grinding medium (50 mm Hepes-KOH, pH 8.0, 330 mm sorbitol) and filtered through nylon mesh. The crude plastids were then collected by a 2-min spin at 1100 × g and further purified on 40-85% Percoll cushions (Percoll in 0.6% Ficoll, 1.8% polyethylene glycol, and 0.6% bovine serum albumin) by a 10-min spin at 3750 × g and one additional wash in the grinding medium. Plastids were subsequently lysed in 10 mm Hepes, pH 8.0, 5 mm MgCl2 with a mixture of protease inhibitors under mild mechanical disruption. The stromal content was collected, concentrated, and immediately used for two-dimensional analysis. Intact potato mitochondria were purified according to Ref. CITATION with minor modifications.  Protein Separation by Colorless Native Gels (CN-PAGE) and Native IEF—Concentrated protein samples were supplemented with aminocaproic acid, BisTris/HCl, pH 7.0, and glycerol to a final concentration of 5 and 50 mm and 20%, respectively. Samples were immediately loaded on native gradient gels (6-15% acrylamide), according to Ref. CITATION. After separation, gel lanes were cut, and the proteins were denatured, reduced, alkylated, and run on Tricine-SDS-PAGE acrylamide gradient gels, according to Refs. CITATION and CITATION. For native IEF, chloroplast stroma (10-15 mg) was loaded on 2.2-ml (0.1-1 m) sucrose gradients, spun for 2.5 h at 259,000 × g, and collected in 0.2-ml fractions. The fractions were concentrated and loaded on IEF tube gels with pI range of 3 to 10 or 4 to 7, principally as described previously (CITATION). Proteins were focused for 20 kV-h, subsequently solubilized, reduced, and alkylated as described earlier (CITATION). The gels were then loaded on Tricine-SDS-PAGE gels, as described for CN-PAGE above, and proteins were separated.  Protein Identification by MS and Bioinformatics—Stained protein spots were excised, washed, digested with modified trypsin, and peptides extracted automatically (ProPic and Progest, Genomic Solutions, Ann Arbor, MI), and peptides were applied to the MALDI-TOF target plates as described previously (CITATION, CITATION). Automated MS or MS/MS analyses were carried out as follows. A Voyager-DE-STR (PerSeptive Biosystems) generated the MALDI-TOF-MS spectra in reflectron mode, which were then annotated and internally calibrated. For nano-LC-ESI-MS/MS, a quadrupole-time of flight (micromass) was used. Separation of peptide mixtures was achieved by using a μ-Guard Pre-Column (LC Packings: inner diameter 300 μm, 1 mm long) followed by a PepMap C18 Reverse Phase Nano Column (LC Packings: inner diameter 180 μm, 15 cm long). Peptides were eluted by running a gradient using 95% H2O, 5% acetonitrile, 0.1% formic acid as solvent A and 95% acetonitrile, 5% H2O, 0.1% formic acid as solvent B, at a flow rate of 0.75 μl. The MS or MS/MS spectra were used to search the latest versions of the NCBI BLAST non-redundant data base or Arabidopsis MIPS or TIGR data bases automatically via Knexus using the search engines ProFound for MS and Sonar-MS for MS/MS data. Alternatively, MS/MS data were manually submitted to Mascot (www.matrixscience.com).  Criteria for positive identification of proteins by peptide mass finger printing were at least 5 matching unique peptides (with mass accuracy <50 ppm, but typically <10 ppm), allowing no missed cleavage or modifications, and requiring at least 15% coverage of the predicted protein sequence. Criteria for nano-LC-ESI-MS/MS were at least two matching sequence tags of high quality (clear Y-ion series and several complementary B ions; manually verified). In case of identification of closely related paralogues or orthologues, it was verified that these sequences were unique. The proteome data will become available via cbsu.tc.cornell.edu/vanwijk/and as Tables 1-4 in the Supplemental Material.  ClpP2:GFP Fusion and Transient Expression Assay—The ClpP2 cDNA was amplified from an A. thaliana cDNA library (CD4-7; Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center). The cDNA was then cloned as an NcoI/SpeI fragment into p1302, a pCAMBIA vector (www.cambia.org), containing an mGFP5 expression cassette driven by a CaMV35S promoter. The resulting plasmid was sequenced and used for particle bombardment of Nicotiana tabacum cv. petit havana leaves on agar plates. Leaves were bombarded twice with plasmid-coated 1.1-μm tungsten particles using a model PDS 1000/He Biolistic Particle Delivery System and were kept in the dark for 3 days before imaging. Confocal laser scanning microscopy was performed on an MRC600 attached to a Zeiss Axiovert10 and COMOS program. Images were colored and projected using the Confocal Assistant 4.02 program. Equipment and software were from Bio-Rad.  Homology Modeling and Threading—Reliable pairwise alignments were obtained by BLAST. Three-dimensional models were generated by comparative protein modeling through satisfaction of spatial restraints with the program MODELLER (CITATION), minimizing the violations of distance and dihedral angle restraints from the template structure (i.e. the x-ray crystal structure of eClpP, 1TYF).  The main chain atoms of the models are expected to be within 0.4 Å of the equivalent atoms in the template structure in the conserved regions. Excluding the C-terminal regions, the Cα r.m.s.d. in the ClpP,R models are expected to be on average around 1.5 Å, with 70% of the side chain positions modeled correctly (CITATION). The models of residues in the C-terminal part of ClpP,R proteins as well as those in the insertion loop (L1) of ClpR1,3,4 were built based on the x-ray crystal structures of structural neighbors (Protein Data Bank codes 1NZY and 1HNO) of the structure of eClpP, 1TYF. These parts of the models are expected to be within a 6-Å r.m.s.d. of the real structure.  By using the threading program 3DPSSM (CITATION) and MODELLER, we built the models for ClpS1,2, respectively, based on the N-terminal domain. All models were validated using the WHAT_CHECK verification routines (CITATION) from the program WHAT_IF (CITATION). The coordinates of our Clp models can be downloaded from the Protein Data Bank (www.rcsb.org/pdb/), as well as via cbsu.tc.cornell.edu/vanwijk/. The PDB codes are as follows: 1R8Z (ClpP1), 1R8V (ClpP2), 1R90 (ClpP3), 1R91 (ClpP4), 1R92 (ClpP5), 1R93 (ClpP6), 1R96 (ClpR1), 1R97 (ClpR2), 1R98 (ClpR3), 1R99 (ClpR4), 1R9A (ClpS1), and 1R9B (ClpS2). 
