!~ABS~! The 5-methylcytosines (m5C) play a critical role in epigenetic control, often being recognized by proteins containing a methyl-CpG-binding domain (MBD). Database screening has identified at least 12 putative methyl-CpG-binding proteins from Arabidopsis; we have isolated corresponding cDNAs for seven of them. Despite variation in size and amino acid sequence, all seven proteins exclusively migrate into the nucleus as revealed by green fluorescent protein fusion protein assay, suggesting a relationship with chromatin structure. However, DNA-binding assays using bacterially expressed proteins and synthetic oligonucleotides containing m5C in CpGs showed only one to specifically bind, designated AtMBD5. Further analysis showed that AtMBD5 efficiently binds to m5C in CpNpN (N is A, T, or C) but not in CpNpG sequences, both frequently found in plant DNA. The other six proteins showed either nonspecific DNA binding or no ability to recognize m5C. RNA-blot hybridization and immunoblot analysis indicated AtMBD5 to be present essentially in all tissues. Using green fluorescent protein driven by the authentic promoter, AtMBD5 was found to be actively expressed in pistils and root tips. Because m5Cs in CpG and CpNpN are considered to function in gene expression and gene silencing, respectively, the present results suggest that AtMBD5 may have distinct functions in regulation and/or self defense of genes in actively proliferating cells.
!~RES~! When we initiated the present study, eight Arabidopsis genes encoding putative proteins possessing an MBD were found in the plant chromatin database (http://www.chromdb.org/index.html) and designated AtMBD (Arabidopsis MBD) with serial numbers 1 through 8 (Fig. 1A). The number of genes, however, subsequently increased, and, currently, 25 putative genes with MBDs are present in the database. In this study, however, we focused on the initially identified eight genes. The nomenclature was followed after the database except for AtMBD7A and AtMBD8A because different sequences were recently assigned to AtMBD7 and AtMBD8 (CITATION; see “Discussion”).   [[FIGURE]] The potential MBDs in the different proteins generally have a low level of similarity, although some showed more than 50% similarity, such as AtMBD4 and AtMBD5 with AtMBD1 and AtMBD6, respectively (Fig. 1, B and C). All the AtMBDs are characterized by a lack of the transcriptional repressor domain, which MeCP2 and MBD1 of mammals typically possess. To determine whether or not these genes are transcribed in planta, a cDNA library derived from the whole plant of Arabidopsis was screened to identify the corresponding transcripts by PCR, using specific primers designed according to the predicted open reading frames. As a result, all cDNAs except for that of AtMBD3 could be isolated. Although some of the open reading frame in the database was based on prediction, the determined nucleotide sequences of these clones were identical with those predicted, indicating correct placement of splicing sites. However, two PCR products with different sizes were amplified for AtMBD7A. Because this amplification was observed in RT-PCR, it could due to alternative splicing of the AtMBD7A gene (data not shown). Because the larger cDNA encoded a small protein, truncated at the domain for methyl-DNA binding, it was eliminated from further analyses. Cellular localization of AtMBD proteins was examined with green fluorescent protein (GFP)-fused constructs. Plasmids containing cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter AtMBD::GFP genes were constructed and biolistically bombarded into onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells. Epifluorescence analyses indicated that, whereas the control construct containing only GFP showed signals in cytoplasmic space and in nuclei, all AtMBD::GFP constructs demonstrated fluorescence exclusively in nuclei (Fig. 2).   [[FIGURE]] To determine whether or not AtMBD proteins recognize and bind m5C, glutathione S-transferase (GST)-AtMBD recombinant proteins were expressed in Escherichia coli and partially purified in glutathione-Sepharose columns. Each AtMBD protein was subjected to binding assay with double-stranded synthetic oligonucleotides of 50 bp containing five symmetrical m5CpG sites. After incubation, samples were subjected to electrophoresis in gels for retardation assays. As the control, the same probe without methylation was used (Fig. 3). Results showed AtMBD4, AtMBD5, and AtMBD6 to form complexes with the methylated probe, whereas the other proteins were unable to bind under the conditions employed. However, control experiments showed that only AtMBD5 was specific to m5C, being unable to bind the unmethylated probe, whereas AtMBD4 and AtMBD6 bound to the probe regardless of the methylation (Fig. 3). The possibility of binding to m5C in CpNpG and CpNpN sequences was then examined using synthetic oligomers (Fig. 4). The results clearly showed that AtMBD5 bound m5CpNpN but not m5CpNpG, whereas AtMBD4 and AtMBD6 bound both probes (Fig. 4). Other AtMBDs did not bind to any of the probes. The specificity of AtMBD5 toward m5CpG and m5CpNpN was confirmed by competition, where a 50-fold excess of unlabeled methylated competitor effectively interfered with the binding, whereas the same amount of unmethylated DNA did not (Fig. 5). A similar competition assay showed neither AtMBD4 nor AtMBD6 to specifically target m5C (data not shown). Although the possibility remains that results obtained with recombinant protein samples, lacking posttranslational modification, may not completely reflect in vivo situation, these experiments suggested that, among the seven AtMBD proteins, only AtMBD5 is able to recognize m5C and that AtMBD4 and AtMBD6 might be nonspecific DNA-binding proteins. AtMBD1, AtMBD2, AtMBD7A, and AtMBD8A apparently are unable to directly bind to DNA.   [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]] Chromosomal localization of AtMBD5 was visually assessed by histochemical staining (Fig. 6). When maize cells were subjected to binding assay with the bacterially expressed GST-AtMBD5 protein, fluorescent signals of the secondary antibody against GST were clearly observed in nuclei of interphase cells (Fig. 6, A–D). This is particularly distinct in metaphase, showing clear signals along individual chromosomes (Fig. 6, A–D). For more detailed observation, extended DNA fibers from Arabidopsis cells were prepared and visualized with the fluorescent dye YOYO-1 (green; Fig. 6E). The same preparation was then subjected to binding to AtMBD5 and visualized by rhodamine fluorescence of the secondary antibodies used for chromosome staining (Fig. 6D). Signals were found to track along the DNA fibers (Fig. 6F). This pattern resembled that of indirect immunostaining of extended DNA fibers with anti-m5C antibodies (Fig. 6G). Thus, these experiments indicated that AtMBD5 recognizes and binds to m5C in chromosomes.   [[FIGURE]] Accumulation of AtMBD5 transcripts was examined by RNA-blot hybridization analysis. Total RNAs were isolated from leaf, stem, flower, or silique and subjected to hybridization with the cDNA probes for AtMBD5. Transcripts were found in all tissues examined, especially in flowers (Fig. 7A). Tissue-specific accumulation of AtMBD5 protein was then examined using polyclonal anti-AtMBD5 antibodies (Fig. 7B). The crude extracts were subjected to SDS-PAGE, and AtMBD5 protein with a molecular mass of 18 kD was detected by western-blot hybridization. AtMBD5 was shown to be almost ubiquitously distributed, although accumulation was undetectable in roots. The protein was found to be relatively abundant in seedlings.   [[FIGURE]] To further analyze the precise location of AtMBD5 at both intracellular and organ levels, a chimeric construct of genomic DNA of AtMBD5 and the GFP gene was introduced into Arabidopsis. In the transgenic plants, accumulation of fusion protein could be regulated by the promoter and splicing of the AtMBD5 gene itself. Thus, localization of GFP can be considered to reflect the localization of AtMBD5 protein. As a reference, the fused construct driven by the CaMV 35S promoter was also used. The T3 progeny of both transgenic lines was analyzed for GFP fluorescence in various parts (Fig. 8). When the authentic promoter was used, AtMBD5 was found to be exclusively expressed in the nuclei in root meristem cells at tips (Fig. 8A). This is a clear contrast to the control, in which AtMBD5 was driven by the CaMV 35S promoter, showing GFP signals all over the root cells (Fig. 8B). In both cases, however, GFP fluorescence was observed in nuclei, consistent with observations in onion epidermal cells (Fig. 2E). GFP fluorescence was strong in pistils (Fig. 8C), again showing a clear contrast to the control, with which GFP spread all over the flower organs (Fig. 8D). GFP signals were also observed in young seeds (Fig. 8E), and, upon more detailed observation, heart embryos were shown to be the dominant sites of expression (Fig. 8F). These observations indicate that AtMBD5 is predominantly expressed in actively proliferating cells and that it is present at a certain level even in quiescent mature tissues.   [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (ecotype Columbia) was grown on soil in a plastic tray at 21°C under long-day conditions (16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle) at a photon flux rate of 70 μmol m-2s-1. Maize (Zea mays cv Golden Arrow) plants were hydroponically grown in a one-fifth strength Murashige and Skoog medium (Nihon Seiyaku, Tokyo) under continuous light for 13 d at 23°C and 70% relative humidity in a growth cabinet. Arabidopsis genes encoding putative MBD proteins were identified in the plant chromatin database (http://chromdb.biosci.arizona.edu/): MBD1 (At4g22745), MBD2 (At5g35330), MBD3 (At4g00416), MBD4 (At3g63030), MBD5 (At3g46580), MBD6 (At5g59380), MBD7A (At5g59800), and MBD8A (At1g22310). Primers according to 5′ and 3′ ends of each putative open reading frame were synthesized and used for PCR with a mixture from a cDNA library constructed in HybriZAP (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA). PCR products were cloned into the TOPO II vector (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) and sequenced using a DNA sequencing kit (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA) and a DNA sequencer (ABI Prism 3100 Genetic Analyzer, Applied Biosystems). The cDNA clones (AtMBD1 through AtMBD8A, except for AtMBD3) were inserted into the GST fusion vector pGEX-4T-2 (Pharmacia Biotech, Uppsala), and Escherichia coli (DH5α) was transformed with the resulting plasmids. Expression of GST fusion proteins was induced with 0.5 mm isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactoside at 20°C for 16 h. Cell samples were resuspended in 50 mm Tris-HCl (pH 8.0) containing 1 mm EDTA and 5 mm dithiothreitol, sonicated, and centrifuged to collect supernatants. Purification from the lysates was performed with a glutathione-Sepharose 4B column (Pharmacia Biotech) as indicated by the manufacturer. We have observed frequently that when the protein preparation became old or was repeatedly subjected to freezing-thawing, the binding specificity was lost, showing no binding activity or nonspecific DNA-binding feature. To avoid this, we always prepared fresh samples, which were used immediately after purification through the column. Total RNA was extracted by the acid guanidinium thiocyanate-phenol chloroform method (CITATION). A 10-μg aliquot per lane was fractionated on a 1% (w/v) agarose gel containing 2% (v/v) formaldehyde, capillary blotted onto a nylon membrane (Hybond N, Amersham Biosciences, Piscataway, NJ) with 20× SSC, and fixed with UV light radiation. Each hybridization probe for the seven AtMBDs was labeled with [α-32P]dCTP using a DNA labeling kit (BcaBEST labeling kit, Takara, Otsu, Japan). Hybridization was carried out as described (CITATION). After hybridization, membranes were used to expose x-ray films. The entire coding region of each AtMBD fragment was amplified by PCR using specific primers containing SalI and NcoI sites and subcloned into the CaMV35S-sGFP(S65T)-NOS3′ vector so that fusion proteins of GFP and AtMBD were produced under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. Cells in the epidermal layers of onion (Allium cepa) bulbs were transformed by particle bombardment as described (CITATION) with gold particles (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA) coated with each plasmid. The control was CaMV35S-sGFP (S65T) alone. After bombardment, samples were incubated at 25°C in darkness for 12 h and viewed under epifluorescence microscopy (Ax70, Olympus, Tokyo). For binding assays, the sequence containing five m5Cs in CpG was 5′-GCTCGTAGCTAACGAGCTCGACTCGTTGACATAGGCCATGGCGTAGACTC-3′ and that in CpNpG was 5′-GCTCTGAGCTAACAGGCTCAGCTCTGTGACATAGGCCATGGCTGAGACTC-3′ (m5C is indicated by the underline). Each complementary strand was also synthesized with m5C at symmetrical positions. The sequence containing five m5Cs in asymmetric CpNpN was 5′-GCTCTTAGCTAACAAGCTCAACTCTATGACATAGGCCATGGCTTAGACTC-3′, and its complementary strand was 5′-GAGTCTAAGCCATGGCCTATGTCATAGAGGTGAGCTTGTTAGCTAAGAGC-3′. Each oligonucleotide was annealed to form a duplex. Gel-shift assays were performed essentially as described (CITATION) with modification. Double-stranded probe DNA was end labeled using [γ-32P]ATP and T4 polynucleotide kinase (New England Biolabs, Boston), and a 1-μL aliquot containing approximately 104 cpm was mixed with approximately 2 μg of GST-AtMBD protein in a 15-μL reaction mixture containing 20 mm HEPES (pH7.9), 1 mm EDTA (pH8.0), 3 mm MgCl2, 10 mm β-mercaptoetanol, 8% (w/v) glycerol, and 0.1% (w/v) Triton X-100. After incubation at room temperature for 20 min, the reaction mixture was subjected to electrophoresis on a 5% (w/v) polyacrylamide gel in 6.725 mm Tris-HCl (pH 7.9), 3.3 mm Na-acetate, and 1 mm EDTA (pH 8.0). Competition assays were performed with enzymatically methylated native DNA as described (CITATION). In brief, a 500-bp fragment from Arabidopsis actin cDNA was amplified by PCR and used as the competitor after methylation by SssI methylase. For CpNpN competition assay, the probe DNA without labeling was used at appropriate concentrations. Maize root tips harvested from 3-d-old seedlings were fixed in a solution of acetic acid:ethanol (1:3 [v/v]) for 16 h. Chromosomes were prepared as described (CITATION) with modification. Root tips cut 1 mm long were macerated in an enzyme solution containing 4% (w/v) cellulase Onozuka RS (Yakult, Tokyo) and 1% (w/v) pectolyase Y-23 (Seishin, Tokyo), adjusted to pH 4.2 at 37°C for 30 min, placed on a glass slide, tapped with the tips of fine forceps with a few drop of methanol:acetic acid (3:1 [v/v]) solution, and air-dried. Extended DNA fibers from leaves of Arabidopsis were prepared as described (CITATION). Chromosomes and extended DNA fibers on the slides were subjected to binding under the same conditions as for the gel shift assay. Immunostaining was performed using goat anti-GST antibodies (Amersham Biosciences), diluted 1:100 (w/v) in phosphate-buffered saline and 0.05% (w/v) Tween 20 and anti-Goat-Cy3 antibodies (Sigma, St. Louis), similarly diluted, as the secondary antibody. Chromosomes and extended DNA fibers were counterstained in 1 μg mL-1 DAPI and 1 μg mL-1 YOYO-1 iodide (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR)/Vectashieled solutions (Vector Laboratories, Burlingame, CA), respectively. The m5C in DNA fibers was stained with an anti-m5C mAb, and indirect immunofluorescence staining was performed as described (CITATION). Fluorescent images of DAPI, YOYO-1, and Cy3 were observed under a fluorescence microscope equipped with UV, B, and G excitation filters (Ax70, Olympus) and captured separately using a cooled CCD camera (CoolSNAP-HQ, Photometrics, Tucson, AZ). Organ tissues were ground in liquid nitrogen in a mortar, mixed with isolation buffer containing 50 mm Tris-HCl (pH7.5), 100 mm NaCl, 0.05% (w/v) Tween 20, 1 mm EDTA, 1 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, 5 μg mL-1 leupepin, 5 μg mL-1 aprotinin, and homogenized. After centrifugation at 15,000 rpm for 10 min to remove insoluble debris, crude extracts were directly subjected to SDS-PAGE, and proteins were electronically transferred onto cellulose membranes (Immobilon-N, Millipore, Bedford, MA). AtMBD5 protein was detected with an anti-AtMBD antibody raised in rabbits. Genomic DNA of Arabidopsis amplified by PCR with primers (5′-GGATCCAAGACAGAAGGTTAAAAACATTGAG-3′ and 5′-ATTCCATGGAGAACATCGTTTTTCCAGCGTCGTTTTG-3′) was fused with pblue-sGFP(S65T)-NOS SK using BamHI and NcoI sites. A chimeric gene of AtMBD5 and GFP of the resulting plasmid were cut out with XbaI and SalI and then replaced with the GUS gene of pBI10I. For this replacement, the SacI site of pBI101 was converted to XhoI that is compatible with SalI in the ligation. This construct was introduced into Arabidopsis by in plant infiltration, and transgenic plants were observed using a stereomicroscope equipped with a GFPII filter (MZFLIII, Leica, Wetzler, Germany) and captured using a digital camera (C4742 95, Hamamatsu Photonics, Hamamatsu, Japan).
