!~ABS~! The intracellular distribution of organelles is a crucial aspect of effective cell function. Chloroplasts change their intracellular positions to optimize photosynthetic activity in response to ambient light conditions. Through screening of mutants of Arabidopsis defective in chloroplast photorelocation movement, we isolated six mutant clones in which chloroplasts gathered at the bottom of the cells and did not distribute throughout cells. These mutants, termed chloroplast unusual positioning (chup), were shown to belong to a single genetic locus by complementation tests. Observation of the positioning of other organelles, such as mitochondria, peroxisomes, and nuclei, revealed that chloroplast positioning and movement are impaired specifically in this mutant, although peroxisomes are distributed along with chloroplasts. The CHUP1 gene encodes a novel protein containing multiple domains, including a coiled-coil domain, an actin binding domain, a Pro-rich region, and two Leu zipper domains. The N-terminal hydrophobic segment of CHUP1 was expressed transiently in leaf cells of Arabidopsis as a fusion protein with the green fluorescent protein. The fusion protein was targeted to envelope membranes of chloroplasts in mesophyll cells, suggesting that CHUP1 may localize in chloroplasts. A glutathione S-transferase fusion protein containing the actin binding domain of CHUP1 was found to bind F-actin in vitro. CHUP1 is a unique gene identified that encodes a protein required for organellar positioning and movement in plant cells.
!~RES~! We screened 15,000 T-DNA lines and ∼100,000 ethyl methanesulfonate–mutagenized F2 Arabidopsis seeds for plants defective in chloroplast movement (see Methods) (CITATION). Detached leaves were covered with a black plate with an open slit through which high-intensity white light was supplied for 1 h. The irradiated area of the wild-type leaf changed from green to pale green and was clearly distinguishable from the nonirradiated area (Figure 1). The irradiated area of chup1 leaves looked almost the same as the nonirradiated area. One mutant from T-DNA insertional mutant pools and five mutants from ethyl methanesulfonate–mutagenized mutant pools were allelic. They were all determined to contain single, nuclear, recessive mutations by complementation tests (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] The effect of low and high light intensity on chloroplast positioning was observed in palisade cells. In wild-type cells, the chloroplasts accumulated along the periclinal cell walls under low light (Figure 2A) and along the anticlinal walls under high light (Figure 2C). In the mutant cells, chloroplast positioning was quite different from that in wild-type plants under both low-light and high-light conditions (Figures 2B and 2D), but although many chloroplasts gathered in parts of the mutant cells, it was difficult to determine the precise locations. To clarify the distribution patterns, leaves of mutant and wild-type plants were fixed and embedded, and cross-sections were observed in more detail. From these sections, it was clear that the chloroplasts in mutant plants accumulated at the bottom of palisade and spongy cells (i.e., the side farther from the adaxial surface of the leaf) (Figure 2F). Even when the mutant leaves were detached at their petioles and placed on the surface of an agar plate abaxial side up for 2 days, the positioning of the chloroplasts remained unchanged, suggesting that chloroplast accumulation at the bottom of the cells was not simply the result of gravity-dependent sedimentation. Although chloroplasts in wild-type cells changed their position depending on light intensity, chloroplast movement in the mutant cells was slight, if any movement occurred at all (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Next, the distribution of mitochondria and peroxisomes in wild-type and chup1 cells was observed using transient transformation with green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusions to mitochondrial or peroxisomal targeting sequences. Mitochondria were distributed throughout the cytoplasm, regardless of whether movement occurred. The types of mitochondrial activity observed can be divided into three classes: no movement, slow movement in random directions, and rapid linear, directional movement. The latter type of movement may reflect cytoplasmic streaming. Overall, there were no differences in mitochondrial distribution, number, or movement patterns between wild-type and chup1 cells (Figures 3A to 3D). [[FIGURE]] Most of the peroxisomes in palisade mesophyll cells were located adjacent to chloroplasts in both the wild type and the mutants and did not appear to move independently of chloroplast movement, in contrast to those in the mitochondria (Figures 3E to 3H). However, the distribution of peroxisomes in palisade mesophyll cells of chup1 differed from that of the wild type, because they remained at the bottom of the cells, along with the chloroplasts. Because peroxisomes usually localize close to chloroplasts, their abnormal distribution in chup1 leaves likely is a secondary effect of chloroplast mislocalization. In epidermal cells lacking chloroplasts, the peroxisomes moved actively around cells in both wild-type and chup1 leaves. To observe nuclei, transverse sections of the leaves were made and stained with 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole. The localization of nuclei in chup1 cells was similar to that in wild-type cells (Figures 3I to 3L). Overall, we conclude that the effects of chup1 are specific to chloroplast distribution and movement. A segment of the DNA flanking the T-DNA insertion into chup1-1 was isolated by plasmid rescue and used to screen an Arabidopsis cDNA library. Because the cDNA clone isolated in this screen, which was a part of At3g25690, did not contain a full-length insert, 5′ rapid amplification of cDNA ends was used to obtain the full-length cDNA. The cDNA contained a single open reading frame of 3015 bp, encoding a deduced protein of 1004 amino acid residues with a predicted molecular mass of 112 kD. The corresponding CHUP1 gene contains nine exons and eight introns (Figure 4). The T-DNA insertion in the chup 1-1 allele was located in exon 5 (Figure 4). The molecular defects in the other alleles were characterized by sequencing genomic DNA fragments. All of the alleles tested carried mutations in the same gene. The chup1-2, -3, -4, and -5 mutants all have single base substitutions resulting in stop codons (Figure 4). The chup1-6 mutant has a single base substitution at the junction of exon 8 and intron 8. The presence of a lesion in each of the six independent mutants tested is consistent with the role of this gene in chloroplast positioning. Furthermore, it was confirmed that expression of a CHUP1-GFP gene (CHUP1 fused to GFP at the C terminus) driven by the 35S promoter of Cauliflower mosaic virus in chup1-2 complemented the mutant phenotype (data not shown). However, GFP fluorescence was not detected in the resulting transformant (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Comparison of the predicted amino acid sequence against sequences available in public databases indicated that CHUP1 contains some previously described domains, including an actin binding domain, a coiled-coil region, Pro-rich motifs, and Leu zipper motifs (Figure 5C). [[FIGURE]] The Paircoil program (CITATION) predicted the presence of a coiled-coil region (Asp-112 to Arg-341) (Figure 5A, underline). Comparison with PROSITE, a database of biologically significant sites (http://kr.expasy.org/prosite), patterns, and profiles, revealed the presence of an actinin-type actin binding domain signature in CHUP1 (Asp-346 to Ala-356) (Figure 5A, box). Comparison with the PROSITE database sequences revealed the presence of two Leu zipper motifs (Leu-269 to Leu-304 and Leu-802 to Leu-823) (Figure 5A, black boxes). These regions may mediate protein–protein interactions with other proteins or with itself. The region from Pro-648 to Pro-705 is abundant in Pro residues (Figure 5A, double underline). A Pro-rich motif (PRM) can be classified by comparison with consensus sequences derived from several different PRM binding domains (CITATION). The PRM of CHUP1 is most similar to PRM1, which has been identified as a profilin binding motif. A hydrophilicity plot revealed the presence of a short hydrophobic region at the N-terminal end of the protein (Figure 5B). Comparison of the CHUP1 sequence with sequences in the SignalP database, which enables prediction of the presence and location of signal peptides (CITATION), led to the prediction that the hydrophobic region may function as a signal peptide. The hydrophobic region could play a role in membrane anchoring. We further investigated the possible roles of this region, and these efforts are described in more detail below. No sequences similar to the full-length CHUP1 sequence were found in the Arabidopsis database (TAIR; http://www.arabidopsis.org). However, in Arabidopsis, there are three genes that encode proteins strikingly similar to the C-terminal region (from the Pro-rich region to the end) of CHUP1 (Figure 6). The functions of these genes are not known. We were unable to find any additional sequence homology with other known proteins or functional domains. Although the function of this C-terminal region is not known, it is likely to play a key role in the molecular function of CHUP1. [[FIGURE]] GFP was fused to the C-terminal end of the N-terminal hydrophobic region of CHUP1 (Met-1 to Pro-25) to allow the study of the possible roles of this N-terminal region in intact cells. The construct was introduced into leaf cells by particle bombardment to allow the transient expression of the fusion protein (N-CHUP-GFP). In the transformants, the outlines of chloroplasts were stained strongly with green fluorescence in the cells expressing N-CHUP-GFP, whereas GFP was distributed uniformly in the cytosol (Figure 7). The localization of N-CHUP-GFP was significantly similar to that of AtOEP7-GFP, which is targeted to chloroplast envelope membrane (CITATION), rather than to that of pt-sGFP, a fusion of the transit peptide of the ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase small subunit and GFP that is targeted to chloroplast stroma (CITATION). Thus, N-CHUP-GFP probably was targeted to chloroplast and plastid envelopes in mesophyll and epidermal cells, respectively (Figure 7). These results suggest that the N-terminal region may target and anchor CHUP1 in the chloroplast envelope membrane. [[FIGURE]] A 3.8-kb transcript was detected in wild-type plants using the full-length CHUP1 cDNA sequence, and the expression levels were reduced greatly in all of the mutants tested (Figure 8A). The gene was expressed in cauline leaves, rosette leaves, stems, and inflorescences (flowers), but not in roots. If the CHUP1 protein plays specific roles in determining the intracellular distribution of chloroplasts, it is reasonable to expect that the gene would be expressed in organs that contain chloroplasts. [[FIGURE]] Because the domain organization of CHUP1 included an actin binding site, we studied the binding activity of this gene product to actin. Attempts to express full-length CHUP1 as a glutathione S-transferase (GST)–tagged protein in Escherichia coli were unsuccessful, because the level of expression was too low to be useful and all of the expressed protein became insoluble (data not shown). Hence, we instead expressed a truncated form of CHUP1 consisting of the putative actin binding domain as a GST fusion protein, GST-CHUP1-ABD. The fusion protein coprecipitated with F-actin (Figure 9, lane P of F-actin + GST-ABD), whereas the control GST lacking the CHUP1 domain did not (Figure 9, lane P of F-actin + GST). These results demonstrate that the putative actin binding motif in CHUP1 can function as an actin binding site. [[FIGURE]] To visualize actin filaments, wild-type and chup1-2 plants were transformed with a construct to express GFP–mouse talin (GFP-mTalin), a marker for the actin cytoskeleton in live plant cells (CITATION). The actin filaments were distributed over the cell cortex even around the chloroplasts in chup1 cells and wild-type cells (Figure 10). There was no apparent difference between chup1 and wild-type cells in terms of the pattern of actin filaments. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Seeds of Arabidopsis thaliana (Columbia and Wassilewskija ecotypes) were sown on one-third-strength CITATION medium containing 1% (w/v) sucrose with 0.8% (w/v) agar, incubated at 4°C for 2 days, and then grown under light conditions of 16 h of light (≈70 μmol·m−2·s−1) and 8 h of dark at 25°C. Leaves of 2-week-old plants mutagenized by ethyl methanesulfonate (Lehle Seeds, Round Rock, TX) or T-DNA insertion (ABRC, Columbus, OH) were removed and placed adaxial side up on the surface of agar plates solidified with 1% agar. These leaves were covered by a black plate with 1-mm-wide slits and irradiated through these slits with strong white light (≈30 W/m2) for 1.5 h using a metal halide lamp. The color of leaves irradiated with strong light through these slits changed from green to pale green as a result of chloroplast avoidance movement. Mutants were identified as plants that did not change their leaf color in the slit region after irradiation with high-intensity light. Arabidopsis leaves were bombarded with gold particles coated with plasmids containing mitochondrion-targeted GFP gene fusions (CITATION) or peroxisome-targeted GFP gene fusions (CITATION) using a Bio-Rad PDS-1000/He particle-delivery system. Bombarded leaves were maintained at 25°C for at least 12 h until microscopic observation, and then GFP-expressing cells were imaged using a confocal laser scanning microscope (LSM model 410; Zeiss, Jena, Germany). For plasmid rescue, DNA was prepared from chup1-1 Arabidopsis plants and digested with SalI. After phenol/chloroform extraction, the digested DNA was self-ligated at 16°C overnight and introduced into Escherichia coli (DH5α). Rescued plasmid DNA was sequenced using a T-DNA left border primer (5′-TTTAAGACGCTATTCCTCAACTTCC-3′). A Basic Local Alignment Search Tool (BLAST) search confirmed that the flanking sequence of the T-DNA was identical to part of the genomic sequence in BAC T5M7. An Arabidopsis cDNA library was screened with a probe of the DNA fragment described above, and a cDNA clone containing the open reading frame of CHUP1 was isolated. Because the clone did not contain the 5′ end of CHUP1, 5′ rapid amplification of cDNA ends was performed using a kit (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) to obtain the full-length sequence of CHUP1. Total RNA was isolated from 4-week-old plants. Ten micrograms of total RNA was electrophoresed on an agarose gel and blotted onto a nylon membrane (Hybond-N+; Amersham). After hybridization with a probe (a PCR product of the full-length CHUP1), the blot was exposed to x-ray film (X-Omat; Kodak). To make a construct to express a fusion protein of the N-terminal hydrophobic region of CHUP1 with GFP, a SalI site and an NcoI site were introduced immediately upstream and downstream of the codons for Met-1 and Pro-25 of CHUP1, respectively, using PCR. The two primers used were 5′-AAGTCGACATGGGAAAAACTTCGGGA-3′ and 5′-AACCATGGGTTTAACGTTGAGCCGCTTAA-3′. PCR was performed with the primers using CHUP1 cDNA as a template. The PCR product was digested with SalI and NcoI and cloned into the SalI-NcoI site of the CaMV35SΩ-sGFP(S65T) plasmid (CITATION; CITATION). The resulting plasmid was named pN-CHUP-GFP. To make a construct to express the AtOEP7-GFP fusion protein, we followed the method described by CITATION. GFP was fused to the C terminus of the full-length AtOEP7. A SalI site and an NcoI site were introduced immediately upstream and downstream of the codons for Met-1 and Leu-64 of AtOEP7, respectively, using PCR. The PCR product was digested with SalI and NcoI and cloned into the SalI-NcoI site of the CaMV35SΩ-sGFP(S65T) plasmid (CITATION; CITATION). The resulting plasmid was named pAtOEP7-GFP. Arabidopsis leaves were bombarded with gold particles coated with plasmids, the CaMV35SΩ-sGFP(S65T) plasmid, the plastid-targeted pt-sGFP(S65T) plasmid (CITATION; CITATION), pN-CHUP-GFP, or pAtOEP7-GFP using a Bio-Rad PDS-1000/He particle-delivery system. Bombarded leaves were maintained at 25°C for at least 12 h until microscopic observation, and then GFP-expressing cells were imaged using a confocal laser scanning microscope (LSM model 410; Zeiss). A BamHI site and an EcoRI site were introduced immediately upstream and downstream of the codons for Lys-332 and Asn-364, respectively, using PCR. The two primers used were S1-F (5′-TTGGATCCAAGCAAGTGGAAGGGCTT-3′) and S1-R (5′-TTGAATTCGTTTCTTAACTCATACCG-3′). PCR was performed with the primers using CHUP1 cDNA as a template. The PCR product was digested with BamHI and EcoRI and cloned into the BamHI-EcoRI site of pGEX-2T (Amersham). E. coli BL21(DE3) pLysS was transformed with the resulting plasmid, pGEX-CHUP1-ABD, and was grown in Luria-Bertani medium (400 mL) at 25°C. The recombinant protein, GST-CHUP1-ABD, was produced by inducing exponentially growing cells with 1 mM isopropylthio-β-galactoside. Cells were harvested by centrifugation after 5 h of cultivation, frozen at −20°C, thawed at room temperature, resuspended in 25 mL of 50 mM Tris-HCl buffer, pH 8.0, containing 10% (w/v) glycerol, 150 mM NaCl, 2 mM EDTA, 0.1% (w/v) Triton X-100, and 10 mM 2-mercaptoethanol (buffer A), and then disrupted by sonication. The cell extract was centrifuged at 16,000g for 30 min and applied to a glutathione-Sepharose column (0.5-mL bed volume). The column was washed with 20 mL of buffer A and 10 mL of buffer B (50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, and 10% [w/v] glycerol). The protein was eluted with buffer B supplemented with 10 mM glutathione. One milligram of actin (A-2522; Sigma, St. Louis, MO) was dissolved in 0.5 mL of 2 mM Tris-HCl buffer, pH 8.0, containing 0.1 mM CaCl2, 0.2 mM ATP, and 1 mM 2-mercaptoethanol (G buffer). The actin solution was centrifuged at 100,000g for 1 h at 4°C. A supernatant fraction (0.45 mL) was recovered and added to 50 μL of 10 × F buffer (0.5 M Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 1 M KCl, 20 mM MgCl2, 10 mM EGTA, 2 mM ATP, and 10 mM 2-mercaptoethanol) to polymerize actin protein and centrifuged at 100,000g for 1 h at 4°C. The supernatant fraction was discarded to remove unpolymerized actin fraction. The precipitated fraction was dissolved in 100 μL of G buffer and used for the actin binding assay. GST or GST-CHUP1-ABD was mixed with or without the actin solution. The mixture was added to one-tenth final volume of 10 × F buffer, incubated at 25°C for 1 h, and centrifuged at 100,000g for 1 h at 4°C. Both the supernatant and the precipitated fractions were analyzed using SDS-PAGE. We constructed a transformation plasmid containing the gene that encodes GFP-mTalin (CITATION) under the control of the 35S promoter of Cauliflower mosaic virus. Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia (gl1) and the chup1-2 mutant were transformed with the GFP-mTalin construct using the in planta transformation method (CITATION). Upon request, materials integral to the findings presented in this publication will be made available in a timely manner to all investigators on similar terms for noncommercial research purposes. To obtain materials, please contact Masamitsu Wada, wada-masamitsu{at}c.metro-u.ac.jp. The sequence data for CHUP1 has been deposited in the DDBJ/GenBank/EBI Data Bank with accession number AB087408. The sequence information for At4g18570, At1g48280, and At1g07120 shown in Figure 6 was obtained from the TAIR World Wide Web site (http://www.arabidopsis.org).
