!~ABS~! The serine-threonine kinase Akt has been established as an important signaling intermediate in regulating cell survival, cell cycle progression, as well as agonist-induced platelet activation. Stimulation of platelets with various agonists including thrombin results in Akt activation. As thrombin can stimulate multiple G protein signaling pathways, we investigated the mechanism of thrombin-induced activation of Akt. Stimulation of platelets with a PAR1-activating peptide (SFLLRN), PAR4-activating peptide (AYPGKF), and thrombin resulted in Thr308 and Ser473 phosphorylation of Akt, which results in its activation. This phosphorylation and activation of Akt were dramatically inhibited in the presence of AR-C69931MX, a P2Y12 receptor-selective antagonist, or GF 109203X, a protein kinase C inhibitor, but Akt phosphorylation was restored by supplemental Gi or Gz signaling. Unlike wild-type mouse platelets, platelets from Gαq-deficient mice failed to trigger Akt phosphorylation by thrombin and AYPGKF, whereas Akt phosphorylation was not affected by these agonists in platelets from mice that lack P2Y1 receptor. However, ADP caused Akt phosphorylation in Gαq- and P2Y1-deficient platelets, which was completely blocked by AR-C69931MX. In contrast, ADP failed to cause Akt phosphorylation in platelets from mice treated with clopidogrel, and thrombin and AYPGKF induced minimal phosphorylation of Akt, which was not affected by AR-C69931MX in these platelets. These data demonstrate that Gi, but not Gq or G12/13, signaling pathways are required for activation of Akt in platelets, and Gi signaling pathways, stimulated by secreted ADP, play an essential role in the activation of Akt in platelets. 
!~RES~! SFLLRN, AYPGKF, and Thrombin Induce Akt Phosphorylation in a Dose- and Time-dependent Manner—It has been shown that thrombin induces phosphorylation of Akt in platelets (CITATION, CITATION). To determine the kinetics of Akt phosphorylation, Ser473 phosphorylation was monitored over a time range of 0.5–20 min. Fig. 1A illustrates that a rapid increase in Akt phosphorylation in response to thrombin was detectable as early as 30 s after stimulation. The level of phosphorylation peaked at around 3 min and remained stable after 20 min of stimulation.  [[FIGURE]]  Because thrombin signals via PAR1 and PAR4 receptors in human platelets, we examined Akt phosphorylation in response to SFLLRN, a PAR1-activating peptide, AYPGKF, a PAR4-activating peptide, and thrombin. We exposed platelets to different concentrations of the agonists, and Ser473 phosphorylation was measured at 3 min after the addition of agonist. Fig. 1B shows that all three agonists induced a concentration-dependent increase in Akt phosphorylation. An increase in Ser473 phosphorylation was detectable at concentrations above 3 μm SFLLRN, 200 μm AYPGKF, or 0.1 unit/ml thrombin; furthermore, higher concentrations revealed further phosphorylation that peaked at concentrations above 5 μm SFLLRN, 500 μm AYPGKF, or 0.5 unit/ml thrombin. A similar pattern of concentration-dependent phosphorylation of Thr308 in response to SFLLRN, AYPGKF, and thrombin was also detected (data not shown).  Effect of Secretion and Gi Signaling Pathways in Akt Phosphorylation and Activation by SFLLRN, AYPGKF, and Thrombin in Human Platelets—Immunoblot analysis revealed that Akt is phosphorylated on Ser473 and Thr308 in response to SFLLRN, AYPGKF, and thrombin in human platelets (Fig. 2). SFLLRN induced a lower extent of Ser473 and Thr308 phosphorylation, whereas AYPGKF induced a similar extent of Akt phosphorylation as thrombin. These results are consistent with a previous study in which phosphorylation of Thr308 and Ser473 induced by SFLLRN in human platelets is 50% of the response induced by thrombin (CITATION). However, they failed to activate Akt completely in response to the PAR4-activating peptide GYPGKF, which is in contrast with our data, wherein dual phosphorylation and activation of Akt occur in response to AYPGKF. These results indicate that both PAR1 and PAR4 receptors can induce concurrent phosphorylation of Ser473 and Thr308, and AYPGKF and thrombin are more potent activators of Akt phosphorylation than SFLLRN.  [[FIGURE]]  Activation of PAR1 or PAR4 causes release of dense granule contents, and the released ADP activates the Gi pathways through stimulation of the P2Y12 receptor (CITATION). To determine whether PAR1 and PAR4 receptors can activate Akt independently of secreted ADP and Gi signaling pathways, we utilized several complementary approaches to evaluate the role of Gi signaling in Akt phosphorylation. The first approach was to block secretion, thereby eliminating the contribution of secreted ADP to Gi stimulation. PKC has been shown to play a major role in the induction of platelet secretion (CITATION, CITATION). To assess the role of secreted ADP to the Akt activation upon stimulation of platelets with SFLLRN, AYPGKF, and thrombin, we used GF 109203X (CITATION), a selective inhibitor of PKC isoforms, and AR-C69931MX, an antagonist at the Gi-coupled P2Y12 receptor (CITATION). In the presence of AR-C69931MX or GF 109203X, we found that both Ser473 and Thr308 phosphorylations were dramatically inhibited suggesting the important role of secretion and Gi-coupled P2Y12 receptor in Akt phosphorylation. It has been shown that intracellular calcium increases also have a role in platelet secretion (CITATION). To investigate the role of calcium in Akt phosphorylation, the high affinity calcium chelator dimethyl-BAPTA was used to block intracellular calcium increases. The presence of dimethyl-BAPTA significantly, but not completely, inhibited both Ser473 and Thr308 phosphorylation in response to all agonists. As dimethyl-BAPTA interferes with platelet secretion, inhibition of Akt phosphorylation in dimethyl-BAPTA-treated platelets might be due to the loss of Gi stimulation by secreted ADP. It is known that PI 3-kinase is the main upstream regulator of Akt, and PI 3-kinase plays an important role in the Gi-dependent potentiation of platelet aggregation. SFLLRN-, AYPGKF-, and thrombin-induced Akt phosphorylation were inhibited in the presence of the PI 3-kinase inhibitor, LY294002, suggesting that phosphorylation of Akt is PI 3-kinase dependent. These results indicate that secreted ADP and Gi-coupled P2Y12 receptors are important in SFLLRN-, AYPGKF-, and thrombin-induced phosphorylation of Akt, and PI 3-kinase is a key element in the Gi-coupled pathway for Akt phosphorylation.  It has been known that phosphorylation of both Thr308 and Ser473 is required for full activation of Akt (CITATION). Akt activity was measured by in vitro kinase assay that detects phosphorylation of GSK-3 induced by immunoprecipitated Akt. Phosphorylation of GSK-3 was measured by Western blotting using a phospho-GSK-3α/β (Ser21/9) antibody, and GSK-3α/β kinase activity has been shown to be negatively regulated by Akt via phosphorylation at Ser21/9. Our results of Akt kinase activity in human platelets (Fig. 3) correspond to Akt phosphorylation shown in Fig. 2. In the presence of dimethyl-BAPTA, activation of Akt in response to SFLLRN, AYPGKF, and thrombin was diminished but not completely abolished. Furthermore, Akt activation was nearly abolished in the presence of AR-C69931MX and GF 109203X confirming that Gi stimulation by secretion is essential for thrombin- and thrombin receptor-activating peptide-induced Akt activation.  [[FIGURE]]  Effect of Secretion and Gi Pathways in Akt Phosphorylation by AYPGKF and Thrombin in Mouse Platelets—To determine whether Akt can be phosphorylated in a Gi-dependent manner in mouse as well as human platelets, a similar approach was applied to mouse platelets and Akt phosphorylation in response to AYPGKF, and thrombin was measured. Mouse platelets do not express PAR1, and hence we did not use SFLLRN. Akt phosphorylation by AYPGKF and thrombin was nearly abolished in the presence of AR-C69931MX, LY294002, GF 109203X, and dimethyl-BAPTA (Fig. 4) with the inhibition being more severe with LY294002. Therefore, it appears that AYPGKF and thrombin phosphorylate Akt predominantly via Gi pathways in both human and mouse platelets.  [[FIGURE]]  Akt Phosphorylation in Platelets from Gαq- and P2Y1-deficient Mice—Pharmacological inhibitors may not completely block the pathways and might have non-selective effects on other signaling molecules. Hence, as a complementary approach to better understand which G protein-coupled pathways mediate Akt activation, we used knockout mice. We compared Akt phosphorylation in response to ADP, AYPGKF, and thrombin in platelets from mice lacking Gαq, lacking P2Y1, or wild-type mice. In wild-type littermates, AYPGKF and thrombin caused phosphorylation of Ser473, which was significantly inhibited in the presence of AR-C69931MX. However, AYPGKF- and thrombin failed to phosphorylate Akt at Ser473 in platelets from Gαq knockout mice (Fig. 5A). It has been shown that platelets from Gαq knockout mice fail to release their granule contents in response to thrombin (CITATION), and we have shown that PAR1 and PAR4 fail to directly couple to Gi in platelets and depend on secreted ADP for Gi stimulation (CITATION). To determine whether absence of Akt phosphorylation in Gαq-deficient platelets is due to direct effect of Gαq on Akt or indirectly through the absence of Gi stimulation by secretion, Akt phosphorylation in response to ADP was compared in Gαq-deficient mice and their wild-type littermates (Fig. 5B). In both wild-type and Gαq-deficient mouse platelets, ADP caused Akt phosphorylation in the presence or absence of MRS-2179, a P2Y1 receptor antagonist (CITATION), whereas ADP-induced Akt phosphorylation was abolished by AR-C69931MX suggesting the essential role of Gi-coupled P2Y12 receptor in Akt activation in platelets. This provides further evidence that the absence of Akt phosphorylation in Gαq-deficient platelets in response to AYPGKF and thrombin is due to the absence of Gi stimulation by secretion.  [[FIGURE]]  A similar approach was used with P2Y1-deficient mouse platelets, and Akt phosphorylation was measured in response to ADP, AYPGKF, and thrombin. P2Y1-deficient mouse platelets do not aggregate in response to ADP with abolished calcium response, whereas P2Y12 receptor coupled to the inhibition of adenylyl cyclase was unaffected (CITATION, CITATION). Consistent with the published results (CITATION, CITATION), platelets from the P2Y1 receptor-deficient mice, developed in our laboratory, failed to aggregate in response to ADP (Fig. 6A). However, AYPGKF-induced aggregation was unaffected in platelets from these mice (not shown). The presence or absence of P2Y1 receptor did not affect the activity of Akt in response to ADP, AYPGKF, and thrombin. However, as in wild-type mouse platelets, AR-C69931MX also abolished ADP-induced Akt phosphorylation in the P2Y1-deficient mouse platelets (Fig. 6B). The absence of P2Y1 did not affect the phosphorylation of Akt in response to ADP, providing further evidence that Gαq is not required for Akt activation in platelets whereas Gi-coupled P2Y12 receptor is necessary and sufficient for the stimulation of Akt.  [[FIGURE]]  Akt Phosphorylation in Clopidogrel-dosed Mouse Platelets— Clopidogrel is a thienopyridine derivative, which blocks activation of platelets by selectively targeting P2Y12 receptor (CITATION). Clopidogrel has been shown to selectively inhibit ADP-induced platelet aggregation and inhibition of adenylyl cyclase in rat platelets 2 h after oral administration at doses ranging from 1 to 25 mg/kg (CITATION). In order to confirm the role of secreted ADP and the P2Y12 receptor in Akt activation, we used platelets from mice dosed with clopidogrel and compared phosphorylation of Ser473 in response to ADP, AYPGKF, and thrombin. The inhibitory effects of ADP on PGE1-stimulated cAMP levels were abolished in clopidogrel-dosed (30 mg/kg/day for 2 days) mice platelets, whereas platelet calcium response by ADP was not affected by clopidogrel treatment (data not shown). In platelets from mice dosed with clopidogrel, ADP-induced platelet aggregation was completely inhibited without an effect on shape change (Fig. 7A). As shown in Fig. 7B, ADP caused an increase in Ser473 phosphorylation in the presence or absence of MRS-2179 in control mouse platelets, and the presence of AR-C69931MX significantly inhibited phosphorylation at this site. However, ADP failed to induce Akt phosphorylation in platelets from mice dosed with clopidogrel confirming that Gi-coupled P2Y12 receptor is essential for Akt activation. The level of Ser473 phosphorylation was nearly abolished in response to AYPGKF and thrombin in clopidogrel-dosed mouse platelets, which was not affected in the presence of AR-C69931MX. The residual phosphorylation of Akt could be due to Gi stimulation by secreted chemokines because α granules can release small quantities of chemokines that can activate Gi pathways (CITATION). Taken together, these results confirm that Gi stimulation is necessary for Akt activation, and the Gi-coupled P2Y12 receptor, which is stimulated by secreted ADP, has a significant role in Akt activation by thrombin and thrombin receptor-activating peptides.  [[FIGURE]]  PKC-dependent Akt Phosphorylation in Platelets Depends on Secretion—In order to clarify the role of secreted ADP, we evaluated the effect of P2Y12 receptor antagonist on Akt phosphorylation in response to the PKC activator PMA. Immunoblot analysis revealed that Akt is phosphorylated on both Ser473 and Thr308 in response to PMA in human platelets (Fig. 8). AR-C69931MX inhibited the PMA-induced Akt phosphorylation suggesting the important role of the Gi-coupled P2Y12 receptor activation in Akt phosphorylation. This conclusion was substantiated in experiments with epinephrine, where activation of separate Gz-coupled receptor by epinephrine restored Akt phosphorylation when platelets are stimulated in the presence of AR-C69931MX. As shown in Fig. 8, phosphorylation of Thr308 was more dramatically inhibited by the AR-C69931MX than Ser473 phosphorylation, suggesting that Gi signaling might play a differential role in the regulation of these two phosphorylation sites. These results indicate that secreted ADP and Gi-coupled P2Y12 receptors are important in activation of Akt induced by direct activation of PKC with PMA.  [[FIGURE]]  Restoration of SFLLRN-, AYPGKF-, or Thrombin-induced Akt Phosphorylation Blocked by GF 109203X or AR-C69931MX—In order to verify the important role of secreted ADP in SFLLRN-, AYPGKF-, or thrombin-induced Akt phosphorylation, we investigated the effect of selective activation of Gi- or Gz-coupled receptor stimulation in the presence of GF 109203X. As shown in Fig. 9A, selective activation of Gi- or Gz-coupled receptor by ADP or epinephrine reversed the effects of secretion blockade on SFLLRN-, AYPGKF-, or thrombin-induced Akt phosphorylation. Epinephrine also reversed the inhibitory effects of AR-C69931MX on the Akt phosphorylation induced by these agonists (Fig. 9B). These results provide further evidence that P2Y12-dependent signaling by secreted ADP is largely responsible for Akt activation by SFLLRN-, AYPGKF-, or thrombin.  [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! Materials—Thrombin, MRS-2179, apyrase (type V), PMA, epinephrine, fibrinogen (type I), and bovine serum albumin (fraction V) were purchased from Sigma. Hexapeptides SFLLRN and AYPGKF were custom-synthesized at Research Genetics Inc. (Huntsville, AL). Anti-Akt and anti-phospho-Akt (Ser473 and Thr308) antibodies and Akt kinase assay kit were purchased from Cell Signaling Technology (Beverly, MA). Alkaline phosphatase-labeled secondary antibody was from Kirkegaard & Perry Laboratories (Gaithersburg, MD). CDP-Star® chemiluminescent substrates were purchased from Applied Biosystems (Foster City, CA). LY294002 was from Biomol Research Laboratories (Plymouth Meeting, PA). 5,5′-Dimethyl-bis-(o-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N′,N′-tetraacetic acid (dimethyl-BAPTA) was obtained from Molecular Probes (Eugene, OR). AR-C69931MX was a gift from Astra-Zeneca (Loughborough, UK). Bisindolylmaleimide I (GF 109203X) was from Calbiochem. Clopidogrel was from Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. All other reagents were reagent-grade, and deionized water was used throughout.  Animals—Gαq-deficient mice were obtained from T. Kent Gartner (CITATION), with permission from Stefan Offermanns, University of Heidelberg, Germany. P2Y1-deficient mice were generated by subcontract with Lexicon Genetics Inc. (Woodlands, TX) through knockout constructs as described previously (CITATION, CITATION). The phenotype of P2Y1 receptor-deficient mouse platelets was confirmed by platelet function studies.  Preparation of Human Platelets—Human blood was obtained from a pool of healthy volunteers in a one-sixth volume of ACD (2.5 g of sodium citrate, 1.5 g of citric acid, and 2.0 g of glucose in 100 ml of H2O). Platelet-rich plasma (PRP) was prepared by centrifugation of citrated blood at 230 × g for 20 min at room temperature (RT). Acetylsalicylic acid was added to PRP to a final concentration of 1 mm, and the preparation was incubated for 1 h at 37 °C followed by centrifugation at 1000 × g for 10 min at RT. The platelet pellet was resuspended in Tyrode's buffer (pH 7.4) containing 138 mm NaCl, 2.7 mm KCl, 2 mm MgCl2, 0.42 mm NaH2PO4, 5 mm glucose, 10 mm HEPES, 0.2% bovine serum albumin, and 0.05 units/ml apyrase. This low concentration of apyrase is not enough to block responses to ADP but will prolong the responsiveness of platelets to ADP by preventing desensitization of the P2Y receptors. These conditions have been standardized in the laboratory, with a platelet count adjusted to 2 × 108 cells/ml.  Preparation of Mouse Platelets—Blood was collected from the vena cava of anesthetized mice into syringes containing 1/10th blood volume of 3.8% sodium citrate as anticoagulant. For clopidogrel treatment, mice were orally dosed with clopidogrel (30 mg/kg/day) for 2 days, and blood was collected 1 h after the final dose. Red blood cells were removed by centrifugation at 100 × g for 10 min. Platelet-rich plasma was recovered, and platelets were pelleted at 400 × g for 10 min. The platelet pellet was resuspended in Tyrode's buffer (pH 7.4) containing 0.05 units/ml apyrase.  Aggregometry—Aggregation of 0.5 ml washed platelets was analyzed using a P.I.C.A. lumiaggregometer (Chrono-log Corp., Havertown, PA). Aggregation was measured using light transmission under stirring conditions (900 rpm) at 37 °C. Each sample was allowed to aggregate for at least 3 min. The chart recorder (Kipp and Zonen, Bohemia, NY) was set for 0.2 mm/s.  Measurement of Akt Phosphorylation—Platelets were stimulated with agonists under non-stirring conditions for the appropriate time, and the reaction was stopped by the addition of 3× SDS sample buffer. In some experiments, GF 109203X (10 μm), a PKC inhibitor, and dimethyl-BAPTA (10 μm), a calcium chelator, were added and incubated for 5 min at 37 °C without stirring before agonist stimulation. Platelet samples were boiled for 5 min, and proteins were separated on 10% SDS-PAGE and transferred onto polyvinylidene difluoride membrane. Nonspecific binding sites were blocked by incubation in Tris-buffered saline/Tween (TBST; 20 mm Tris, 140 mm NaCl, 0.1% (v/v) Tween 20) containing 0.5% (w/v) milk protein and 3% (w/v) bovine serum albumin (BSA) for 30 min at RT, and membranes were incubated overnight at 4 °C with primary antibody (1:1000 in TBST, 2% BSA) with gentle agitation. After three washes for 5 min each with TBST, the membranes were probed with the alkaline phosphatase-labeled goat anti-rabbit IgG (1:5000 in TBST, 2% BSA) for 1 h at RT. After additional washing steps, membranes were then incubated with a CDP-Star® chemiluminescent substrates for 10 min at RT, and immunoreactivity was detected using Fujifilm Luminescent Image Analyzer (model LAS-1000 CH, Japan).  In Vitro Kinase Assay for Akt—Akt kinase activity was measured using a modification of the Akt kinase assay kit from Cell Signaling Technology (Beverly, MA). Briefly, platelets were stimulated with agonists under non-stirring conditions for 3 min, and the reaction was stopped by the addition of 5× ice-cold cell lysis buffer (100 mm Tris (pH 7.5), 750 mm NaCl, 5 mm EDTA, 5 mm EGTA, 5% Triton X-100, 12.5 mm sodium pyrophosphate, 5 mm β-glycerol phosphate, 5 mm Na3VO4, 5 μg/ml leupeptin, and 5 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride). Resuspended immobilized Akt antibody slurry (20 μl) was added to 200 μl of platelet lysates to selectively immunoprecipitate Akt from the lysate with gentle rocking 3 h at 4 °C. The pellet was washed twice with 500 μl of 1× lysis buffer and twice with 500 μl of 1× kinase buffer (25 mm Tris (pH 7.5), 5 mm β-glycerol phosphate, 2 mm dithiothreitol, 0.1 mm Na3VO4, and 10 mm MgCl2). The immunoprecipitated pellet was then incubated with 40 μl of 1× kinase buffer supplemented with 200 μm ATP and 1 μg of GSK-3 fusion protein for 30 min at 30 °C allowing immunoprecipitated Akt to phosphorylate GSK-3. The reaction was terminated with 20 μl of 3× SDS sample buffer. Samples were boiled for 5 min and loaded on 14% SDS-PAGE gel. Akt-induced phosphorylation of GSK-3 was detected by Western blotting using phospho-GSK-3α/β (Ser21/9) antibody. 
