!~ABS~! CD44 is a major cell surface adhesion molecule for hyaluronan, a component of the extracellular matrix, and is implicated in tumor metastasis and invasion. We reported previously that hyaluronan oligosaccharides induce CD44 cleavage from tumor cells. Here we show that engagement of CD44 promotes CD44 cleavage and tumor cell migration, both of which were suppressed by a metalloproteinase inhibitor KB-R7785 and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-1 (TIMP-1) but not by TIMP-2. We also present evidence that blockade of metalloproteinase-disintegrin ADAM10 (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase 10) by RNA interference suppresses CD44 cleavage induced by its ligation. Engagement of CD44 concurrently induced activation of the small GTPase Rac1 and led to drastic changes in cell morphology and actin cytoskeleton with redistribution of CD44 to newly generated membrane ruffling areas. A fluorescence resonance energy transfer approach to visualize GTP-bound Rac1 in living cells revealed the localization of the active Rac1 in the leading edge of the membrane ruffling areas upon ligation of CD44. Taken together, our results indicate that the cleavage of CD44 catalyzed by ADAM10 is augmented by the intracellular signaling elicited by engagement of CD44, through Rac-mediated cytoskeletal rearrangement, and suggest that CD44 cleavage contributes to the migration and invasion of tumor cells. 
!~RES~! Engagement of CD44 with mAb Induces Cleavage of CD44 Itself—We reported previously (CITATION) that HA oligosaccharides can enhance CD44 cleavage from tumor cells. We thus determined whether ligation of CD44 induces its cleavage, using a highly invasive human glioma cell line U251MG, which was shown previously (CITATION, CITATION) to have high CD44 cleavage activity. When U251MG cells were incubated with a mAb to CD44, IM7, membrane-tethered CD44 cleavage products of ∼20- to 25-kDa, were clearly detected in the lysate of U251MG cells by Western blotting using a pAb against cytoplasmic domain of CD44, anti-CD44cyto pAb (Fig. 1). The induction of CD44 cleavage by IM7 mAb was dose-dependent and reached a plateau at 1 μg/ml. The cleavage was not observed when rat IgG was used as a control antibody to IM7 (data not shown). The bands of CD44 full-length (∼90 kDa) were still detected after IM7 mAb treatment, showing that more than 90% of CD44 remains uncleaved on the cell surface, estimated by densitometric analysis. Basically identical results were obtained using the human pancreatic carcinoma cell line MIA PaCa-2 (data not shown).  [[FIGURE]]  Next we tried to detect sCD44 released into the culture supernatants. When the culture supernatants of U251MG cells were immunoblotted with anti-human CD44 pAb, which recognizes the ectodomain of CD44, a band of ∼70 kDa was observed (Fig. 2A, right panel). When the cells were treated with IM7 mAb, the intensity of the band increased to almost the same level when CD44 cleavage was induced by PMA (Fig. 2A, columns 2 and 4). The effects of both IM7 mAb and PMA on CD44 cleavage were markedly abrogated by a hydroxamate-type metalloproteinase inhibitor KB-R7785 (Fig. 2A, columns 3 and 5), indicating that the induction of CD44 cleavage by mAb is mediated by metalloproteinases. KB-R7785 is an inhibitor acting on matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), including MMP-1 and MMP-9, with a broad spectrum (CITATION). To further investigate the involvement of metalloproteinases in CD44 cleavage, we used TIMP-1 and TIMP-2, the natural inhibitors of MMPs. TIMP-2, which inhibits the activity of most membrane-type MMPs (MT-MMPs) (CITATION-CITATION), did not inhibit IM7 mAb-induced CD44 cleavage (Fig. 2C, left panel), whereas TIMP-1, whose inhibitory effect on MT-MMP activities is much less than TIMP-2, effectively inhibited the mAb-induced CD44 cleavage dose-dependently (Fig. 2B, left panel). These results were similar to those of PMA-induced CD44 cleavage (Fig. 2, B and C, right panels). These findings imply that the enzyme responsible for mAb-induced CD44 cleavage is a metalloproteinase(s) other than MT-MMPs.  [[FIGURE]]  mAb-induced CD44 Cleavage Is Independent on PKC and Extracellular Calcium Influx—Hitherto, mAb-induced CD44 cleavage exhibits similar pattern as in the case of PMA, a known activator of PKC. Thus to determine whether mAb-induced CD44 cleavage requires activity of PKC, like PMA-induced cleavage, we tested the effects of a specific PKC inhibitor GF109203X (CITATION) on CD44 cleavage. PMA-induced CD44 cleavage was inhibited dose-dependently by GF109203X as expected, whereas mAb-induced CD44 cleavage was not affected (Fig. 3A). These results imply that the signaling mechanisms involved in mAb-induced cleavage may be different from those that operate in PMA-induced cleavage. In addition to IM7 mAb and PMA, CD44 cleavage is also induced by influx of extracellular calcium ion into the cytosol by the ionophore ionomycin (CITATION). Thus we tested whether extracellular calcium ion is required for mAb-induced CD44 cleavage. Although ionomycin did not induce CD44 cleavage in the absence of extracellular calcium ion (Fig. 3B, lane 8), IM7 mAb yet induced CD44 cleavage in the same condition (Fig. 3B, lane 6). These results indicate that the extracellular calcium ion is not required for CD44 cleavage induced by IM7 mAb. Hitherto basically identical results were obtained using another anti-CD44 mAb 5F12 (CITATION) instead of IM7 mAb (data not shown), indicating that CD44 cleavage induced by ligation of CD44 with mAb is mediated by a distinct pathway from those by PMA or ionomycin.  [[FIGURE]]  Engagement of CD44 Promotes Migration of U251MG Cells through Cleavage of CD44 —CD44 has been reported to be a receptor for HA (CITATION) and to be associated with cell migration (CITATION). CD44 cleavage was shown previously (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION) to play a critical role in tumor cell migration. To determine whether the ligation of CD44 promotes CD44-dependent cell migration through metalloproteinase-mediated CD44 cleavage, we performed modified Boyden chamber-type migration assays. As shown in Fig. 4A, IM7 mAb treatment enhanced the migration of U251MG cells on HA. The enhanced migration was inhibited by pretreatment with an anti-CD44 blocking mAb BRIC235 but not by a non-blocking mAb Hermes-3. These mAbs did not inhibit the basal level cell migration (data not shown). These results indicate that the migration enhanced by IM7 mAb treatment was dependent on the CD44-HA interaction.  [[FIGURE]]  Next we examined the effect of metalloproteinase inhibitors used in the cleavage assay on the cell migration. The hydroxamate-type metalloproteinase inhibitor KB-R7785 effectively inhibited the cell migration enhanced by stimulation with IM7 mAb to the basal level (Fig. 4B). When tissue inhibitors were used, TIMP-1 also inhibited the enhanced migration, whereas TIMP-2 did not. Neither of these agents changed the basal level cell migration ability (data not shown). KB-R7785 and TIMP-1 were the inhibitors that suppressed CD44 cleavage as described above (Fig. 2). These results therefore indicate that a certain metalloproteolytic activity that cleaves CD44 is involved in CD44-mediated migration and suggest that CD44 cleavage induced by mAb contributes to the migration of tumor cells.  ADAM10 Is Involved in CD44 Cleavage Induced by Engagement of CD44 —One of the metalloproteinases whose activity is known to be inhibited by TIMP-1 and not by TIMP-2 is ADAM10 (CITATION). To verify that ADAM10 is the responsible enzyme for CD44 cleavage, endogenous expression of ADAM genes was silenced by RNAi. Efficient and specific knockdown in U251MG cells was monitored by RT-PCR (Fig. 5A) and Western blot analysis of cell lysates (Fig. 5B) after transfection with siRNA. As shown in Fig. 5C, siRNA to ADAM10 suppressed CD44 cleavage induced by ligation of CD44, whereas siRNA to ADAM17 did not. These results indicate that ADAM10 is involved in CD44 cleavage induced by ligation of CD44.  [[FIGURE]]  Engagement of CD44 Induces Membrane Ruffling and Accumulation of CD44 in the Ruffling Area—When the cells were treated with IM7 mAb, the cells changed their morphology extending broad lamellipodial membrane protrusions (Fig. 6A). CD44 was redistributed to the membrane ruffling area where polymerized actin was concentrated. We then examined the relationship between the cytoskeletal rearrangement and CD44 cleavage, both of which were induced by ligation of CD44, by disrupting actin polymerization with cytochalasin D. As shown in Fig. 6B, cytochalasin D inhibited the CD44 cleavage induced by IM7 mAb, indicating that the cytoskeletal rearrangement enhances the CD44 cleavage.  [[FIGURE]]  Engagement of CD44 Promotes Rac1 Activation, Which Mediates CD44 Cleavage and Cell Migration—mAb-induced cytoskeletal rearrangements shown in Fig. 6 were highly reminiscent of the lamellipodial outgrowth caused by activation of Rac, one of the Rho family small GTPases (CITATION, CITATION). We therefore speculate that the ligation of CD44 elicits intracellular signals to activate Rac, which causes the membrane ruffling and the lamellipodial protrusion. To confirm this hypothesis biochemically, we performed the pull-down assay for GTP-bound Rac1 (active Rac1), using a recombinant p21-binding domain of PAK1 (PBD) fused with glutathione S-transferase (GST). As shown in Fig. 7A, virtually no active Rac1 was pulled down from lysates of untreated U251MG cells, whereas the amount of active Rac1 was distinctly increased within 5 min of incubation with IM7 mAb, reached a maximum within 10 min, and persisted for at least 30 min. Activation of Rac1 was not enhanced when the cells were incubated with rat IgG, an isotype-matched control IgG (data not shown). Following Rac1 activation, CD44 cleavage was detected significantly within 30 min (data not shown).  [[FIGURE]]  Next we determined the causal link of CD44 cleavage to Rac1 activation by introducing dominant negative mutant of Rac1 (N17Rac1) into U251MG cells. As shown in Fig. 7B, the CD44 cleavage induced by its ligation was abrogated in the cells transfected with N17Rac1. Moreover, cell migration enhanced by ligation of CD44 was also inhibited by expression of N17Rac1. These results suggest that CD44 cleavage induced by ligation of CD44 is mediated by Rac1 activation, which upregulates cell migration.  GTPases of the Rho family cycle between GDP-bound inactive and GTP-bound active forms. The cycle is regulated by the activator, guanine nucleotide exchange factors, and the inactivator, guanine nucleotide dissociation inhibitors, as well as by GTPase-activating proteins that promote hydrolysis of GTP (CITATION). The effects of Rac might be controlled by regulating the subcellular localization of its activation. Thus we developed a method based on FRET (CITATION, CITATION) that enables us to observe spatial and temporal regulation of Rac1 activity. We designed a fusion protein comprising Rac1 and YFP as illustrated in Fig. 8A and introduced this fusion protein into U251MG cells as a protein biosensor, together with GTP labeled with the acceptor dye BODIPY TR. Binding of BODIPY TR-GTP to YFP-Rac1 brings BODIPY TR close to YFP and increases FRET from YFP to BODIPY TR (Fig. 8A). When U251MG cells harboring YFP-Rac1 and BODIPY TR-GTP were imaged for YFP-Rac1 (515-550 nm) and FRET (615-645 nm), YFP-Rac1 was detected diffusely within the cells, whereas virtually no FRET signals were detected without any stimulation (Fig. 8B), suggesting that Rac1 is localized in the cytosol in its GDP-bound inactive form. When the cells were stimulated with IM7 mAb, membrane protrusion was initiated, and FRET signal distinctly appeared at regions of the leading edge of the cells within 5 min, reached its maximum at 10 min, and persisted at least 30 min (Fig. 8B, upper panels). This time course corresponds to the biochemically acquired data shown in Fig. 7, indicating that Rac1 activation is visualized spatially and temporally. On the other hand, activation of Cdc42 in response to IM7 mAb was not observed by using YFP-Cdc42 (Fig. 8B, lower panels). No morphological changes and FRET signals from YFP-Rac1 and YFP-Cdc42 were observed when the cells were treated with a control IgG (data not shown). These results suggest that ligation of CD44 with IM7 mAb promotes membrane protrusion and Rac1 activation in the peripheral leading edges.  [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! Anti-CD44 antibodies were obtained as follows: rat B cell hybridoma producing mAb IM7 (IM7.8.1) (CITATION) was purchased from the American Type Culture Collection (Manassas, VA); a polyclonal antibody (pAb) against the cytoplasmic domain of CD44, anti-CD44cyo pAb (CITATION), and Hermes-3 (CITATION) were kindly provided by Drs. Hideyuki Saya (Kumamoto University, Kumamoto, Japan) and Sirpa Jalkanen (Turku University and National Public Health Institute, Turku, Finland), respectively; BRIC235 and rabbit anti-human CD44 pAb were purchased from the International Blood Group Reference Laboratory (Bristol, United Kingdom) and Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Inc. (Santa Cruz, CA), respectively. Hydroxamate-based metalloproteinase inhibitor KB-R7785 ([4-(N-hydroxyamino)-2R-isobutyl-3S-methylsuccinyl]-l-phenylglycine-N-methylamide) was provided by Organon Japan (Osaka, Japan). Tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-1 (TIMP-1) and TIMP-2 were obtained from Fuji Chemical Industries (Takaoka, Japan). GF109203X was from Wako Pure Chemical Industries (Osaka, Japan). Ionomycin was from Calbiochem. PMA and cytochalasin D were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich. Carbobenzoxyl-leucinyl-leucinyl-leucinal (MG132) was obtained from Peptide Institute (Osaka, Japan).  The human glioblastoma cell line U251MG, kindly provided by Dr. H. Saya, was grown in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium/F-12 medium (Invitrogen) supplemented with 10% heat-inactivated fetal calf serum, 100 units/ml penicillin, and 100 μg/ml streptomycin at 37 °C in an atmosphere containing 5% CO2. Transfection of U251MG cells with the plasmid pEF-BOS-myc-N17Rac1, kindly provided by Dr. Yoshimi Takai (Osaka University, Suita, Japan), was performed as follows. The cells were seeded in 24-well plates at 2.5 × 104 cells/well and transfected with 0.8 μg of plasmid using LipofectAMINE 2000 (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer's instructions.  For detection of CD44 cleavage products in cell lysates, U251MG cells were seeded in a 24-well plate at 5 × 104 cells per well and cultured overnight. After preincubation with 10 μm MG132 for 30 min, the cells were incubated with IM7 mAb for 1 h or with 100 ng/ml PMA for 30 min. Then the cells were directly lysed with SDS sample buffer (2% SDS, 10% glycerol, 0.1 m dithiothreitol, 120 mm Tris-HCl, pH 6.8, 0.02% bromphenol blue). Samples extracted from equal numbers of cells were subjected to SDS-PAGE and transferred to a polyvinylidene difluoride filter. After blocked in PBS containing 3% bovine serum albumin (BSA), the blot was probed with anti-CD44cyto pAb (CITATION) and horseradish peroxidase-conjugated anti-rabbit IgG (American Qualex, San Clemente, CA) and developed with ECL Western blotting detection reagents (Amersham Biosciences).  For detection of soluble CD44 (sCD44) in culture supernatants, the culture supernatants of U251MG cells were subjected to SDS-PAGE and transferred to polyvinylidene difluoride filters. The blot was then probed with rabbit anti-human CD44 pAb and horseradish peroxidaseconjugated anti-rabbit IgG and developed with ECL Western blotting detection reagents.  Cell migration was assayed in 24-well Costar Transwell chambers (Corning Inc., Corning, NY) with 6.5-mm-diameter polycarbonate filters of 8-μm pore size. The filters were coated with 100 μg/ml HA (human umbilical cord) (Sigma-Aldrich), and 100 μg/ml IM7 mAb or a control antibody (normal rat IgG; Sigma-Aldrich) at 4 °C overnight. The lower compartments of the chambers were filled with 0.6 ml of Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium/F-12 medium containing 0.1% BSA, and the filters were placed into the chamber. U251MG cells grown logarithmically were detached by brief exposure to 0.02% EDTA/PBS and re-suspended at 2 × 105 cells/ml in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium/F-12 medium containing 0.1% BSA. 100-μl aliquot of the cell suspension (2 × 104 cells) was added to the upper compartments and incubated at 37 °C for 24 h in an atmosphere containing 5% CO2. After incubation, the cells on the upper surface of the filters were wiped off with cotton swab, and the cells on the lower surface were stained with hematoxylin and eosin and counted under a light microscope in five defined high power fields (×200).  Transfection of 21-nucleotide small-interfering RNA (siRNA) duplexes (Japan Bio Services, Saitama, Japan) for targeting endogenous genes was carried out using LipofectAMINE 2000 according to the manufacturer's instructions. Briefly, U251MG cells were seeded in 24-well plates at 2.5 × 104 cells/well and transfected with 20 pmol of siRNA. Sequences of siRNA used were AGACAUUAUGAAGGAUUAUdTdT (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase 10; ADAM10) and GAGAAGCUUGAUUCUUUGCdTdT (ADAM17). Specific silencing of targeted genes by RNA interference (RNAi) was monitored by semi-quantitative reverse transcription (RT)-PCR 2 days after transfection. In brief, total RNA isolated from U251MG cells was reverse transcribed with an oligo(dT)18 primer. Primers for specific amplification by PCR were listed as follows: 5′-TCACATTACTTTTGCTCACGA-3′ and 5′-TTCTACCATTCCATTTCCACA-3′ for ADAM10, 5′-GCATTCTCAAGTCTCCACAAG-3′ and 5′-CCTCATTCGGGGCACATTCTG-3′ for ADAM17, and 5′-TGGTATCGTGGAAGGACTCAT-3′ and 5′-GTGGGTGTCGCTGTTGAAGTC-3′ for glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase. The efficiency of ADAM10-specific RNAi was confirmed by Western blotting using anti-ADAM10 pAb (Oncogene Research Products, San Diego, CA) and horseradish peroxidase-conjugated anti-rabbit IgG.  U251MG cells were seeded on a 4-well Lab-teck chamber plate (Nalge Nunc, Naperville, IL) at a density of 2 × 103 cells/ml and incubated overnight at 37 °C in an atmosphere containing 5% CO2. The cells were fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde/PBS for 10 min followed by treatment with 0.2% Triton X-100/PBS for 5 min and blocked in PBS containing 1% BSA for 30 min at room temperature. After being washed with PBS, the cells were incubated with anti-CD44cyto pAb for 1 h at room temperature, followed by incubation with fluorescein isothiocyanate-conjugated anti-rabbit IgG (Jackson ImmunoResearch Laboratories, Inc., West Grove, PA) and rhodamine-conjugated phalloidin (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR) for 1 h at room temperature. After being washed with PBS, samples were mounted in Prolong Antifade (Molecular Probes) and visualized with an LSM 410 confocal laser scanning microscope (Carl Zeiss, Oberkochen, Germany).  U251MG cells were plated at a density of 5 × 105 cells per 10-cm dish. After treatment with 1 μg/ml IM7 mAb for different time periods, the cells were lysed, and the pull-down assay for detection of active form of Rac1 was performed as described previously (CITATION).  The coding regions of Rac1 cDNA (XbaI-XbaI fragment) and Cdc42 cDNA (BamHI-BamHI fragment), kindly provided by Dr. Kozo Kaibuchi (Nagoya University, Nagoya, Japan) (CITATION), were individually inserted into the plasmid pEYFP-C1 (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA) at the corresponding cloning sites. The resulting plasmids were named pEYFP-Rac1 and pEYFP-Cdc42.  Microinjection and Imaging—U251MG cells were seeded on a 25-mm diameter glass-base dish at a density of 5 × 103 cells/ml and transfected with the plasmid pEYFP-Rac1 or pEYFP-Cdc42 using FuGENE 6 Transfection Reagent (Roche Applied Science) according to the manufacturer's instructions. After incubation for 24 h followed by serum starvation for 2 h, the cells were microinjected into the cytoplasm with 1mm BODIPY TR-GTP (Molecular Probes). After 10 min, the cells were incubated with 1 μg/ml IM7 mAb and then observed with an Olympus IX-70 inverted microscope equipped with a confocal laser scanner unit CSU10 (Yokogawa Electronic, Tokyo, Japan). Images were acquired by a MicroMAX 512BFT back-illuminated charge-coupled device camera (Princeton Scientific Instruments), through 515-550-nm and 630DF30 filters (Omega Optical, Brattleboro, VT) for yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) and fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) channels, respectively, under excitation of YFP through a 480/10-nm filter.  FRET Measurements—The background was subtracted from the raw images prior to the calculation of FRET signals. The FRET was calculated using “corrected FRET” method (CITATION, CITATION). The formula for the calculation of FRET is shown in the equation, [FRET] = Ff - Df(Fd/Dd) - Af(Fa/Aa), where, in notation of Gordon et al. (CITATION), the first letters in each symbols represent the filter set (F for the FRET filter set, D for the donor filter set, A for the acceptor filter set), and the second letters indicate the fluorochromes present in a cell (f for both donor and acceptor present in a cell, d for donor only, a for acceptor only). Although BODIPY TR-GTP was slightly excited without FRET, its fluorescence could not be detected through either filters used. Thus Ad and Da are effectively zero. 
