!~ABS~! The 26 S proteasome is a multisubunit protease complex responsible for degrading a wide range of intracelular proteins in eukaryotes, especially those modified with polyubiquitin chains. It is composed of a self-compartmentalized core protease (CP) that houses the peptidase active sites appended on either or both ends by a regulatory particle (RP) that identifies appropriate substrates and translocates them into the lumen of the CP for breakdown. Here, we describe the molecular and biochemical properties of the 26 S proteasome from the plant Arabidopsis thaliana. Like the CP and the ATPase ring of the RP, the RP non-ATPase subunits are often encoded by two transcriptionally active genes with some pairs displaying sufficient sequence divergence to suggest functional differences. Most RPN subunits could functionally replace their yeast counterparts, implying that they have retained their positions and activities within the complex. A method was developed to purify the 26 S proteasome intact from whole Arabidopsis seedlings. These preparations are biochemically indistinguishable from those from yeast and mammals, including the need for ATP to maintain integrity and a strong sensitivity to the inhibitors MG115, MG132, lactacystin, and epoxomicin. Mass spectrometric analysis of the complex detected the presence of almost all CP and RP subunits. In many cases, both products of paralogous genes were detected, demonstrating that each isoform assembles into the mature particle. As with the yeast and animal 26 S proteasomes, attenuation of individual RP genes induces a coordinated up-regulation of many of the other 26 S proteasome genes, suggesting that plants contain a negative feedback mechanism to regulate the 26 S proteasome levels. The incorporation of paralogous subunits into the Arabidopsis holoprotease raises the intriguing possibility that plants synthesize multiple 26 S proteasome types with unique properties and/or target specificities. 
!~RES~! Characterization of the Arabidopsis RPN Genes—Previously, we described the sequences and organization of the Arabidopsis gene families encoding the CP, the RPT ring, and the RPN10 and RPN12a subunits (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). By reiterative BLAST searches using the yeast Rpn1 to -3, Rpn5 to -9, and Rpn11 genes as queries (CITATION), we identified here the remaining RPN genes in the near complete Arabidopsis genomic sequence. The intron/exon boundaries and coding regions were compiled from genomic loci, full-length and partial cDNAs, and ESTs in the A. thaliana ecotype Col-0 data base (available on the World Wide Web at www.arabidopsis.org/) (Fig. S1). With the exception of RPN3b, full-length cDNAs are available for all loci (CITATION, CITATION) (this report). Previously, we were unable to detect expression of RPN12b either by RNA gel blotting or reverse transcriptase-PCR of whole seedling total RNA and thus considered this locus to be a pseudogene (CITATION). However, in this study, we were able to PCR-amplify a full-length RPN12b cDNA that matched the proposed organization (CITATION) from an Arabidopsis cDNA library, indicating that this gene is transcriptionally active.  Single Arabidopsis genes were detected for RPN6, -7, -10, and -11. Two paralogous genes with 80∼89% nucleotide sequence identity were evident for RPN1 to -3, RPN5, RPN8, RPN9, and RPN12 (distinguished here with alphabetical suffixes (Table I)). Where available, the cDNA sequences matched exactly the predicted exons for the annotated genomic sequences in the Col-0 ecotype with the exception of RPN1b and RPN9b. In both genes, a 1-bp mismatch was detected that could reflect a sequencing error or a polymorphic allele. None of the RPN cDNAs were sequence variants that would imply alternative splicing. As predicted from the recent origin of many duplicated genes in Arabidopsis (CITATION), the genomic organizations of paralogous RPN genes are highly similar. The major exception is RPN12a and -b. Alignments of the cDNA and genomic sequences confirmed the prediction (CITATION) that the RPN12b locus is missing a substantial portion of the 5′ end and the last intron and is predicted to express a truncated protein missing the first 101 amino acids. RPN3a and -b also differ from each other by the presence of an additional intron in the middle of RPN3a (Fig. 1).  [[TABLE]]  [[FIGURE]]  Comparisons of the derived amino acid sequences showed that the Arabidopsis RPN subunits are highly related both in sequence and structure to their expected orthologs from other eukaryotic kingdoms (CITATION) with percentage identities/similarities ranging from 30/41% to 80/84% (Table I). The most conserved subunits among the plant, fungal, and animal kingdoms are RPN11 and RPN8a/b, and the most diverged subunits are RPN9a/b and RPN12a/b. Each of the Arabidopsis subunits also contains the signature motif(s) present in their nonplant orthologs (Fig. 1). For example, Mov34 and Pad1 N-terminal domains were detected in RPN8a/b and RPN11; proteasome/COP9/initiation factor 3 domains in RPN3a/b, RPN5a/b, RPN6, RPN7, and RPN9a/b (CITATION); and proteasome/cyclosome repeats in RPN1a/b and RPN2a/b (CITATION). For RPN11, the JAMM metalloprotease motif is present within the MPN domain, and includes the positional conserved histidine residues that comprise the active site (CITATION).  Previous yeast two-hybrid analyses revealed that yeast Rpn5p/Rpn9p and Rpn8p/Rpn11p pairs interact strongly with each other in the RP using their respective proteasome/COP9/initiation factor 3 and Mov34 and Pad1 N-terminal domains for contacts (CITATION). Yeast two-hybrid analysis of the Arabidopsis counterparts demonstrated that these interactions are conserved in plants. The RPN5a/RPN9a and RPN11/RPN8a pairs, appended to the Gal4 activation and binding domains, showed positive yeast two-hybrid analysis interactions, using both the His3 and LacZ reporter activities as the assays (data not shown).  Confirmation that the Arabidopsis RPN subunits are functionally orthologous to their yeast counterparts was provided by complementation of Rpn-deficient yeast strains (Fig. 2A). For most of the essential yeast Rpn genes, growth of the corresponding rpnΔ strain could be partially or fully restored by introducing the wild-type yeast gene expressed from a high copy pRS425 plasmid. Similar rescue was evident for Arabidopsis RPN2a, -5a, -7, -8a, and -11 but not for RPN3a, -6, and -12a. We previously showed that a yeast deletion strain missing the nonessential subunit Rpn10 gene could be complemented with Arabidopsis RPN10 (CITATION). Here, we extended this observation to the other nonessential subunit gene Rpn9. The rpn9Δ strain is viable at 30 °C but fails to grow at 37 °C (CITATION). As can be seen in Fig. 2B, introducing yeast Rpn9 or either one of the two Arabidopsis RPN9 isoforms rescued this high temperature growth defect.  [[FIGURE]]  Purification of the Arabidopsis 26 S Proteasome—To define the activity and subunit composition of the 26 S proteasome from plants and to determine whether the complex can incorporate either paralog of the CP and RP subunits, we developed a method to purify the 26 S proteasome intact from whole Arabidopsis seedlings and analyzed it biochemically. To help stabilize the holoprotease and minimize proteolysis after extraction, all buffers included ≥1 mm ATP (CITATION) and a mixture of protease inhibitors. Enrichment at each step was followed by the MG132-sensitive cleavage of the substrate Suc-LLVY-AMC, which is diagnostic for the chymotrypsin-like activity of the CP (CITATION, CITATION), and by immunoblot analyses with antibodies against representative subunits of the CP (PBA1/β1) and RP base (RPT1a) and lid (RPN12a) to ensure that each of the subparticles remained associated during the purification. (It remains to be determined if any of the 26 S proteasome antibodies used here can discriminate between paralogous a and b proteins.) Young seedlings grown for 10 days in liquid culture proved to be the best source, having a high peptidase activity (detected in vitro) and containing less starch and polyphenols that often interfere with plant protein isolation. Approximately 60% of the peptidase activity in crude extracts was resistant to 80 μm MG132 (Table II), indicating that a variety of other peptidases were present initially. Although the PEG precipitation step provided only a modest increase in 26 S proteasome purity, it did remove a majority of these contaminating activities and thus may have helped maintain the integrity of the complex.  [[TABLE]]  Purification of the 26 S complex to near homogeneity was ultimately achieved by sequential anion exchange with a Uno Q6 column and size exclusion chromatography with a Superose HR6 column. During the size exclusion step, the complex eluted as a single peak as judged by the peptidase activity profile and by the immunoblot analysis with CP, base and lid subunit antibodies (Fig. 3, A and B). The peptidase activity was strongly inhibited by MG132 and was sensitive to 0.02% SDS (Fig. 3A and Table II), both attributes of the 26 S proteasome from yeast and animals (CITATION, CITATION). We typically obtained a 200-fold purification with a ∼25% overall yield (based on the initial peptidase activity (Table II)). Approximately 240 μg of 26 S proteasome were isolated from 200 g fresh weight of seedlings. SDS-PAGE analysis of the Superose HR6 fractions revealed a distribution of polypeptides similar to that for the 26 S proteasome purified from spinach (CITATION), rice (CITATION), and nonplant sources (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION), including groupings at 24-32 and 35-55 kDa and a few minor proteins around 90 kDa (Fig. 3B). One significant contaminant was a doublet of 150- and 110-kDa polypeptides that eluted earlier as a particle much larger than the 26 S proteasome. MS analysis identified this protein as the Arabidopsis ortholog of tripeptidyl peptidase (TPP) II (CITATION).  [[FIGURE]]  Analysis of the 26S proteasome preparation by native PAGE demonstrated that it contained both the CP and RP and that their association required ATP. As can be seen in Fig. 4A, when the complex was electrophoresed in the presence of 1 mm ATP and 5 mm MgCl2, two species were detected by an in-gel peptidase assay with Suc-LLVY-AMC and by immunoblotting with the CP (PBA1)-, RP base (RPT1a)-, and RP lid (RPN12a)-specific antibodies. The larger form probably represented the CP capped with two RPs, and the smaller form represented the CP capped with a single RP (CITATION). Consistent with this notion, analysis of Superose HR6 fractions across the peak of peptidase activity showed that the larger form eluted earlier (Fig. 4B). Some free CP could be seen with the anti-PBA1 antibodies but not by the peptidase activity, suggesting that only a small portion of CP was present in the free form (Fig. 4A). In the absence of ATP and MgCl2, both 26 S species dissociated, thus generating a large pool of free CP (as detected by peptidase activity and anti-PBA1 (β1) antibodies) and free RP (detected with RPT1a and RPN12a antibodies) with only a residual amount remaining in the two 26 S forms (Fig. 4A). This dissociation also occurred in the presence of the nonhydrolyzable ATP analog AMP-PNP, indicating that ATP hydrolysis is required for CP/RP binding (data not shown). Further SDS-PAGE resolution of the dissociated 26 S complex revealed the characteristic subunit patterns of the CP and RP subcomplexes (Fig. 4C). The peptidase activity of the dissociated CP could be activated severalfold upon the addition of 0.02% SDS to the gel (data not shown), consistent with the reported ability of this detergent to activate this subcomplex at low concentrations (CITATION, CITATION).  [[FIGURE]]  Inhibitor Studies of the Arabidopsis 26 S Proteasome— MG115, MG132, lactacystin, and epoxomicin are effective inhibitors of the yeast and animal 26 S proteasomes (CITATION-CITATION). Despite their use in many studies on plant protein breakdown (e.g. see Refs. CITATION-CITATION), these inhibitors have not yet been confirmed to be highly effective with the plant particle. To demonstrate the efficacy of these inhibitors, we tested their ability to block the purified Arabidopsis 26 S proteasome using the Suc-LLVY-AMC peptidase assay. The calculated Km for this substrate in the presence of 100 μm ATP is ∼80 μm (data not shown) in agreement with the 26 S proteasome preparations from nonplant sources (CITATION).  As can be seen in Fig. 5A, all four inhibitors effectively quenched the activity of the purified Arabidopsis 26 S proteasome at nanomolar concentrations. MG115 and MG132 are competitive inhibitors and effectively blocked activity with a Ki of 75 and 840 nm, respectively. Lactacystin and epoxomicin, which covalently modify the active site threonines and thus are irreversible inhibitors, inhibited 50% of the activity with as little as 250 and 65 nm, respectively. MG132 appeared to be the most potent in blocking even residual chymotryptic activity, with >98% of the activity inhibited with 80 μm (Fig. 5A). Although effective with the purified complex, all four inhibitors only marginally block the peptidase activity in crude seedling extracts, indicating that other Suc-LLVY-AMC-degrading peptidases are present (Fig. 5B). Most of these contaminating activities were removed by the 2-10% PEG 8000 precipitation step (Fig. 5B). It is also possible that a portion of the inhibited activity is derived from other proteases (e.g. calpains and various lysosomal cathepsins) that are also sensitive to these compounds (CITATION).  [[FIGURE]]  Subunit Composition of the Arabidopsis 26 S Proteasome— The presence of paralogous genes for many CP and RP subunits (CITATION, CITATION) (this report) raised the intriguing possibility that both members of each pair assemble into a holoprotease particle, thus creating an array of 26 S proteasome types in Arabidopsis. To confirm the core subunit organization of the Arabidopsis 26 S proteasome and determine whether each isoform can be incorporated, we analyzed by MS the subunit composition of the particle purified from whole seedlings. Here, the preparation was subjected to one- and two-dimensional PAGE, and individual protein bands/spots were treated in-gel with trypsin followed by MALDI-TOF MS. The origin of the peptides was then deduced by matching this MS fingerprint with that predicted from the Arabidopsis proteomic data base.  Consistent with the expected organization of the holoprotease, we detected signature peptides derived from almost all of the predicted α, β, RPT, and RPN subunits, including both isoforms (Fig. 6 and Supplemental Data Table I). In most cases, at least seven peptides covering >25% of the polypeptides were detected for each band or spot that matched exactly the predicted peptide mass fingerprint of the corresponding protein. For PAC1 alone, we detected 16 peptides from the more acidic species that covered 65% of the protein. In yeast and animals, the β1, β2, and β5 subunits are processed at the N terminus to expose a positionally conserved threonine that forms part of the active site (CITATION). MALDI-TOF MS analysis of Arabidopsis PBA1 (β1) indicated that a similar processing occurs in plants, at least for this subunit. We detected a tryptic fragment of 1893.0 m/z that matches exactly a predicted peptide beginning at this threonine followed by 18 additional residues ending in an arginine (data not shown).  [[FIGURE]]  For many subunits encoded by two genes, peptides were identified that covered the same region but allowed unambiguous identification. For example, isoform-specific peptides derived from the same region (amino acids 60 to 74) were observed for PAA1 (1698.9 m/z) and PAA2 (1670.9 m/z). By the same method, paralogs of other subunits were easily identified in the final 26 S proteasome preparation, including most of the duplicated subunits of the α, β, and RPT rings and many duplicated RPN subunits of the RP (Fig. 6). For several paralogs with distinct two-dimensional PAGE map positions, protein staining allowed us to conclude that the relative abundance of each isoform was similar (e.g. PAA1/2 and PBD1/2).  Despite this success, several expected subunits were not identified by in-gel tryptic digestion coupled with MALDI-TOF MS, including PBB1 and -2, RPN10, and RPN12b. Several protein spots on the two-dimensional gels repeatedly failed to generate MS-identifiable peptides (data not shown); it is possible that these spots correspond to some of these missing subunits. For several subunits detected by MS, it was not possible to distinguish between the a and b paralogs (PAB1/2, PAD1/2, PBC1/2, PBE1/2, and RPT1a/b) or unambiguously identify one of the paralogs (PAF2, RPT5b, RPN8b, and RPN9b) (see Fig. 6).  Most CP and RP subunits were easily detected in the one-dimensional gels by MALDI-TOF MS. However, the more complex electrophoretic pattern of the two-dimensional gels indicated that many 26 S proteasome subunits are even more heterogeneous than genome analysis would predict. In several cases, these subunits appeared as a complex string of species, possibly reflecting post-translational modifications and/or posthomogenization proteolysis of the polypeptide. As examples, two abundant protein species were detected for the α3 subunit although this polypeptide is encoded by a single PAC1 gene; the RPT2a/b, RPN1a/b, RPN2a/b pairs were detected by a series of species of similar apparent molecular mass but distinct pIs, and several species with distinct pIs and apparent masses were detected for the RPT2a/b, RPT3a/b, RPT5a/b, and RPN8a/b pairs (Fig. 6). For PAC1, we note that a second related locus is evident in the nearly complete Arabidopsis genomic sequence that has been incorrectly assigned to the 3′ end of the At4g15160.1 gene. However, this sequence contains an inframe stop codon and does not appear to be expressed (as evidenced by its absence in the EST collections and cDNA libraries) and thus is likely to be a pseudogene.  Remarkably, nearly complete MS analysis of the one- and two-dimensional gels revealed only two proteins not predicted to exist within the core 26 S proteasome complex, suggesting that the organization of the plant 26 S proteasome is highly similar to those from other eukaryotic kingdoms. One protein, detected as a 150/110-kDa doublet during one-dimensional SDS-PAGE, represents the Arabidopsis ortholog of the Drosophila protease TPP II (CITATION). This subtilisin-like serine peptidase assembles into a homo-oligomeric superstructure of 5-9 MDa and probably co-purified with the 26 S proteasome based on its similarly large size. The other ∼70-kDa polypeptide is related by sequence to fatty acid α-dioxygenase (DOX1) that catalyzes the conversion of linolenic acid and other fatty acids into their 2(R)-hydroperoxy derivatives (CITATION) and is involved in oxidative stress responses and cell death (CITATION). Why this protein co-purified with the 26 S proteasome is unclear. Close examination of the Uno Q6 and HR6 profiles suggested that the elution patterns of α-DOX1 were distinct from those of the 26 S proteasome and thus not likely to be associated with the protease (data not shown).  To examine further the heterogeneity within the Arabidopsis 26 S proteasome, we subjected the two-dimensional PAGE gels to immunoblot analysis with antibodies against Arabidopsis PAC1, PBA1, PBF1, RPN5a/b, RPN10, and RPN12a (Fig. 7). One PBA (β1) protein and two PBF (β6) proteins were detected in accord with the single PBA1 gene and the two PBF genes, respectively, in the Arabidopsis genome. Similar to the MS analysis, two PAC (α3) species were detected, although genomic analysis identified only a single intact PAC gene. For RPN12a, a single species was detected in agreement with the presence of only a single gene that would encode this size protein. We failed to detect a polypeptide consistent with the size of RPN12b (∼18 kDa), suggesting that it is either present at undetectable levels, not expressed in young Arabidopsis seedlings, or not detected by the anti-RPN12a antibodies. For RPN5a and -b, a string of proteins of similar size but different pI values was evident, suggesting that either or both isoforms of this subunit are post-translationally modified (Fig. 7).  [[FIGURE]]  The most complicated two-dimensional PAGE pattern was that for RPN10. Although this subunit was not identified by the MS analyses, we easily detected the protein with anti-RPN10 antibodies. However, the protein was observed as a complex set of polypeptides ranging in size from more acidic ∼50-kDa species to more basic ∼30-kDa species (Fig. 7A). Given that a single major RPN10 protein of ∼50 kDa can be observed in crude Arabidopsis extracts homogenized under conditions that preclude posthomogenization proteolysis (Figs. 7B and 8B) (CITATION), it was probable that the complex set seen in the purified 26 S proteasome preparations reflected partial breakdown products. To test this possibility, we analyzed samples from various stages of 26 S proteasome purification with anti-RPN10 antibodies. As can be seen in Fig. 4B, RPN10 became progressively more degraded during the purification even with the inclusion of phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride and a mixture of other protease inhibitors to the extraction buffer. The increasingly more basic nature of the degradation products is consistent with the loss occurring progressively from the more acidic C-terminal end containing the UIM (CITATION).  [[FIGURE]]  Expression of Arabidopsis RPN Genes—The incorporation of paralogous CP and RP subunits could reflect a mechanism to create cell- and tissue-specific isoforms of the 26 S proteasome by differential expression of the corresponding genes. To test this scenario, we examined the expression patterns of the RPN genes, including both paralogs when available, by RNA gel blot analysis. mRNAs for all RPN genes were evident in the Arabidopsis EST data bases or could be isolated from various cDNA libraries (Table I), indicating that all of the loci are transcriptionally active. With the exception of RPN2b and RPN12b, mRNAs for all of the corresponding RPN loci also could be detected by RNA gel blots (Fig. 8A). Similar but not identical patterns were evident regardless of the RPN gene tested, with the highest expression typically seen in flowers (Fig. 8A). Flowers also contained a high level of the E1-encoding UBA1 mRNA, suggesting that the Ub/26 S proteasome pathway is generally more active in this reproductive tissue. More subtle differences were evident when comparing mRNAs from roots and leaves, with some genes showing a stronger root expression (RPN6 and RPN12a) and others showing a stronger leaf expression (RPN1a and RPN11). For the paralogous RPN loci, similar qualitative patterns of expression were observed. Although the band intensities were typically weaker for the b paralogs, their mRNAs abundances in different tissues roughly paralleled those for the a paralogs. Immunoblot analysis with antibodies against RPN6, -8a, and -10 indicated that the levels of the corresponding proteins roughly matched their mRNA abundance, with flowers containing the highest levels of each subunit (Fig. 8B).  Self-regulation of 26 S Proteasome Synthesis in Arabidopsis—Several studies have noted an up-regulation of various 26 S proteasome subunit genes in actively dividing plant tissues and in response to stress (e.g. see Refs. CITATION and CITATION), suggesting that plants, like yeast, Drosophila, and mammals, contain a mechanism to increase levels of the protease to meet demand (CITATION-CITATION). In yeast, this up-regulation is directed by Rpn4p, a transcription factor that activates the expression of most, if not all, 26 S proteasome subunit genes through a negative feedback control of its half-life (CITATION). Although an obvious ortholog of Rpn4p is not evident in plants, RNA gel blot analysis of a battery of Arabidopsis 26 S proteasome genes in mutants affecting the base subunit RPN10 and the lid subunit RPN12a indicates that a similar regulation exists in plants. Both the rpn10-1 and rpn12a-1 lines were generated by exon trap mutagenesis (CITATION, CITATION). They synthesize diminished levels of either truncated (RPN10) or full-length (RPN12a) versions as N-terminal fusions to neomycin phosphotransferase, but the chimeric proteins can still integrate into the 26 S particle. The plants accumulate the 26 S holoprotease to nearly normal levels (as judged by CP peptidase activity) but display either an abscisic acid hypersensitivity (rpn10-1) or a decreased cytokinin sensitivity (rpn12a-1) presumably by selective attenuation of RP function (CITATION, CITATION).  As shown in Fig. 9A, mRNAs for representative Arabidopsis 26 S proteasome subunit genes increased in the homozygous rpn10-1 and rpn12a-1 backgrounds as compared with wild type. This collection included transcripts encoding CP (PBA1 and PBF1) and RP base (RPN10) and lid (RPN3a, RPN5a, and RPN12a) subunits, indicating that mRNA abundance for all three subcomplexes were up-regulated. Immunoblot analyses with subunit antibodies revealed that this increase in mRNAs is reflected at the protein level, but only for the CP and RP base (Fig. 9B). Both rpn10-1 and rpn12a-1 mutants accumulated more CP as judged by increases in the PAC1 and PBA1 proteins and more RP base as judged by increases in RPT1, RPT2, and RPN1. Conversely, no increase was evident for subunits of the RP lid, including RPN5a, RPN8a, RPN11, and RPN12a (Fig. 9B), although the abundance of the corresponding mRNAs was expected to increase. This lack of effect suggests that mutant rpn10-1 and rpn12a-1 proteins may inhibit lid accumulation by blocking its assembly. It has been proposed that the CSN could substitute for the RP lid in some circumstances, possibly as a mechanism to increase the functions and specificity of the 26 S proteasome (CITATION). Immunoblot analysis with the CSN4 and -5 subunits showed that the levels of these polypeptides were unaffected in the rpn10-1 and rpn12a-1 backgrounds (Fig. 9B), suggesting that the CSN complex is not up-regulated when the RP lid is impaired.  [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! Identification and Isolation of Arabidopsis RPN Genes—The RPN nucleotide sequences, including genomic, full-length, and partial cDNA and EST sequences, were identified by BLAST searches (CITATION) of the A. thaliana (ecotype Columbia Col-0) DNA data base (available on the World Wide Web at www.arabidopsis.org) using the peptide sequences of the yeast RPN subunits as queries. For RPN1a, -1b, -6, -7, -11, and -12a, full-length cDNAs were obtained from the EST collection at the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (Ohio State University). For RPN2a, -2b, -3a, -5a, -5b, -8a, -8b, -9a, -9b, and -12b, full-length cDNAs were isolated by PCR using Pfu polymerase (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA) from the Kieber and Ecker size-selected cDNA libraries (Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center stock number CD4-13, CD4-14, or CD4-15). The coding region for RPN3b was derived from comparison of the genomic sequence with a previously available cDNA (accession number AY057508). The gene organizations of RPN10 and RPN12a were described previously (CITATION, CITATION). Sequences were analyzed using the UW-GCG software package version 10.3 (Accelrys Inc., San Diego, CA). Protein domains were identified using SMART version 3.5, InterPro version 6.0, and Pfam version 8.0 (European Bioinformatics Institute; www.ebi.ac.uk/interpro/index.html) and ScanProsite (ExPASy Molecular Biology Server; tw.expasy.org).  Yeast Complementation—Yeast RPN genes, including promoter and termination sequences, were amplified from DF5 (MATa) genomic DNA by PCR using PfuTurbo (Stratagene) and primers designed to add appropriate restriction sites to the 5′ and 3′ ends. After digestion with the corresponding restriction enzymes, the products were inserted into pRS316 (CITATION) that was digested similarly. For RPN2a, -5a, -6, and -12a, the restricted fragments were subsequently inserted into pRS425 (CITATION). For RPN3a, -7, -8a, -9a, and -11, the coding regions and the 3′ untranslated sequences were reamplified by PCR and inserted into pRS425-v downstream of the yeast RPN10 promoter. The pRS425-v was engineered from pRS425 to contain a 570-bp proximal fragment of the yeast Rpn10 promoter separated by a NdeI site from a partial yeast Rpn10 coding region, all of which is bracketed by SacII restriction sites (CITATION). All Arabidopsis RPN genes (except RPN3a), including coding and 3′ untranslated sequences, were amplified from appropriate cDNAs or cDNA libraries by PCR using PfuTurbo and primers designed to add NdeI and another appropriate site to the 5′ and 3′ ends, respectively. The fragments were inserted into pRS425-v to allow expression of the cDNA from the yeast Rpn10 promoter. Arabidopsis RPN3a was PCR-amplified from its cDNA and inserted into pADCT (CITATION), which uses the yeast Adh promoter to drive expression. The sequences of all constructions were verified as correct by DNA sequence analysis. Details of constructions, primers, intermediate vectors, and restriction sites used for subcloning will be made available upon request.  Diploid heterozygous yeast chromosomal deletion mutants, generated by the Saccharomyces Genome Deletion Project (CITATION) from the strain BY4743 (MATa/MATα his3Δ1/his3Δ1 leu2Δ0/leu2Δ0 met15Δ0/MET15 lys2Δ0/LYS2 ura3Δ0/ura3Δ0), were purchased from Research Genetics, Inc. (Huntsville, AL) or the American Type Culture Collection (Manassas, VA). The strains were transformed with pRS316-derived plasmids (Ura3/Cen6) harboring wild-type yeast RPN genes and sporulated to establish a set of haploid yeast chromosomal deletions harboring the corresponding wild-type RPN genes in pRS316. The Arabidopsis or yeast RPN genes in the 2-μm LEU2-based plasmid (pRS425, pRS425-v, or pADCT) were tested for complementation using a 5-fluoroortic acid-plasmid-shuffling procedure as described previously (CITATION). Because yeast rpn9Δ strains are viable (CITATION), the heterozygous deletion mutant was sporulated before transformation to obtain isogenic haploid wild-type and deletion strains. Yeast-rich (YPD) and selection synthetic media (SD) were prepared as described (CITATION).  26 S Proteasome Purification—A. thaliana (ecotype Columbia, Col-0) was grown in liquid GM (Invitrogen) at 20 °C under continuous light. After 10 days of growth, whole seedlings were washed, frozen to liquid nitrogen temperature, pulverized with a mortar and pestle, and stored at -80 °C. The powder was homogenized in 1.25 ml/g fresh weight of extraction buffer (50 mm potassium phosphate (pH 6), 2 mm MgCl2, 5% (v/v) glycerol, and 5 mm 2-mercaptoethanol) supplemented with 10 mm ATP, 5% polyvinylpyrrolidone, 0.6% sodium metabisulfite, 2 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, and 0.8% plant protease inhibitor mixture (Sigma) just before use. All subsequent steps were performed at 0-4 °C. The extract was filtered through four layers of cheesecloth and two layers of Miracloth and clarified at 30,000 × g for 15 min. The supernatant was made 2% (w/v) polyethylene glycol (PEG) 8000 (Sigma), additional 1 mm ATP was added, and the mixture was stirred for 30 min and reclarified at 30,000 × g for 45 min. The supernatant was made 10% (w/v) PEG 8000 and stirred for 30 min, and the 26 S proteasome-containing precipitate was collected by centrifugation at 12,000 × g for 15 min. The pellet was resuspended in extraction buffer supplemented with 2 mm ATP, clarified, and fractionated on a 6-ml Uno Q6 (Bio-Rad) anion exchange column using a 240-ml 0-1 m KCl gradient in extraction buffer with 2 mm ATP. Fractions (3 ml) containing the 26 S proteasome activity eluted between 260 and 280 mm KCl were pooled and reprecipitated with 10% (w/v) PEG 8000. The pellet was resuspended in the extraction buffer containing 20% glycerol and 2 mm ATP and further resolved by size exclusion FPLC using a 24-ml Superose HR6 10/30 column (Amersham Biosciences) with a flow rate of 0.1 ml/min. Peak fractions (0.5 ml) of 26 S proteasome activity were pooled and stored at -80 °C.  26 S Proteasome Peptidase Assay—Fractions (10 μl) were incubated at 37 °C for 20 min with 90 μl of 50 μm succinyl-Leu-Leu-Val-Tyr-7-amido-4-methylcoumarin (Suc-LLVY-AMC; Sigma) in 80 mm potassium phosphate (pH 7.0). The reaction was quenched by adding 1 ml of 80 mm sodium acetate (pH 4.3). Released AMC was monitored by fluorescence using excitation and emission wavelengths of 380 and 440 nm, respectively. Data were plotted in arbitrary fluorescence units per 10 μl of fraction, using free AMC (Sigma) as a standard. MG115 (Ac-Leu-Leu-Nle-al), MG132 (benzyloxycarbonyl-Leu-Leu-Leu-al), epoxomicin (Ac(Me)-Ile-Ile-Thr-Leu-EX) (A.G. Scientific, San Diego, CA), and clastolactacystin β-lactone (lactacystin) (Sigma) were dissolved in Me2SO before use.  Antibody Production—The RPN1a coding region was PCR-amplified from the full-length cDNA clone H9G1 (www.arabidopsis.org) using primers GTTACTGTACATATGGCTCCAACTCAGGAT and AGCTCT-CTCCTCGAGCTCCTCTCTGTAGTCTGG designed to contain 5′- and 3′-flanking NdeI and XhoI sites, respectively. Upon NdeI/XhoI digestion, this product was cloned into pET28b (Novagen, Madison, WI). The RPN11 coding region was amplified from the full-length cDNA clone AY091329 and inserted into EcoRI/NcoI sites of pET30c. Both proteins were expressed in Escherichia coli strain BL21 (DE3) following induction with 0.4 mm isopropyl 1-thio-β-d-galactopyranoside and collected from the insoluble fraction by centrifugation. The pellet was dissolved in SDS-PAGE sample buffer and purified by preparative SDS-PAGE. The portions of the gel containing RPN1a or RPN11 (visualized by Coomassie Blue staining) were excised, emulsified, and injected directly into rabbits (Polyclonal Antibody Service, Madison, WI). Antibodies against PAC1, PBA1, RPT1a, RPT2a, RPN5a, RPN8a, RPN10, RPN12a, CSN4, CSN5, and UBC1 were as described (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). Anti-RPN6 antibodies were purchased from Affiniti (Nottingham, UK).  PAGE and Immunoblot Analysis—Nondenaturing PAGE employed a modification of the method of Glickman et al. (CITATION). The resolving gels contained 4.6% acrylamide, 2.3% sucrose, 1 mm ATP, 5 mm MgCl2, 90 mm Tris-HCl (pH 8.3), 80 mm sodium borate, and 80 μm Na4EDTA. Peptidase activity was detected by overlaying the gels with 100 μm Suc-LLVY-AMC in 5 mm MgCl2, 10 mm KCl, 0.5 mm Na4EDTA, 30 mm Tris-HCl (pH 7.8) at 37 °C and visualizing the AMC product by fluorescence under UV light. For two-dimensional PAGE, 26 S proteasome fractions were first dialyzed overnight at 4 °C into 50 mm Tris-HCl (pH 6) and 1 mm dithiothreitol, precipitated with acetone, dried, and resuspended in rehydration buffer (Bio-Rad) containing 9 m urea, 4% CHAPS, 50 mm dithiothreitol, 0.2% Bio-Lyte ampholytes, and 0.025% bromphenol blue. Separation used pH 3-10 IPG strips (Bio-Rad) in the first dimension and SDS-PAGE with 12% acrylamide gels in the second dimension.  Immunoblot analyses were performed with 15 μg of total protein subjected to SDS-PAGE and electrophoretically transferred to Immobilon-P membranes (Millipore Corp., Bellerica, MA). Primary antibodies were visualized with alkaline phosphatase-conjugated goat anti-rabbit immunoglobulins and the substrates nitro blue tetrazolium and 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl phosphate.  Matrix-assisted Laser Desorption Ionization Time-of-flight (MALDI-TOF) MS Analysis—Sections of SDS-PAGE gels containing protein (visualized by Coomassie Blue staining) were diced, destained with 25 mm NH4HCO3 in 50% acetonitrile, and dried. After reduction with 100 mm dithiothreitol and alkylation with 55 mm iodoacetamide, the gel pieces were incubated with 0.3 μg of sequencing grade modified trypsin (Promega, Madison, WI) for 16 h at 37 °C. Peptide fragments were extracted once with 0.1% trifluoroacetic acid and twice with 5% trifluoroacetic acid in 50% acetonitrile. The supernatants were dried and dissolved in 0.1% trifluoroacetic acid, and the peptide mixtures were cleaned with a ZipTip (Millipore). MALDI-TOF MS was recorded on 1-μl samples using a Biflex III MALDI-TOF mass spectrometer (Bruker, Billerica, MA) operated in the reflectron mode. The collected mass spectra were searched using the Peptide Mass Fingerprint Program against the Arabidopsis data base of MASCOT Matrix Science (available on the World Wide Web at www.matrixscience.com/) or the Prospector server in University of California, San Francisco, Mass Spectrometry Facility (available on the World Wide Web at prospectors.ucsf.edu/). Each high scoring candidate was manually compared with the corresponding mass spectra collection to ensure a correct match.  RNA Gel Blot Analysis—Total RNA was isolated from young A. thaliana ecotypes Col-0 and C24 seedlings using the Trizol reagent (Invitrogen), separated by agarose gel electrophoresis (10 μg/lane), and bound to Zeta-Probe membranes (Bio-Rad). 32P-Labeled probes were either generated by reverse transcriptase-PCR using 2 μg of total RNA and SuperScript reverse transcriptase and labeled by random priming or synthesized as riboprobes using the appropriate linearized plasmids and the Riboprobe Gemini II core system (Promega). The RPN12a, RPN10, PBA1, PBF1, and β-TUB4 templates were described previously (CITATION, CITATION). The RPN3a and RPN5a templates used the respective EST clones 146K19 and 246J16, linearized with PstI. 
