!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heyhn. genome contains 45 genes that show substantial sequence similarity to the tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.) HIN1 (harpin-induced) gene and the Arabidopsis NDR1 (non-race-specific disease resistance) gene. Of these, the nine (NHL1 to NHL3, NHL8 to NHL12 and NHL22) that bear the highest identity to HIN1 were selected and their expression in various situations was examined. We found that NHL10 behaves like the tobacco HIN1 gene in that its transcripts are abundant in senescing leaves and they specifically accumulate during the hypersensitive response (HR) caused by exposure to an avirulent Cucumber mosaic virus (CMV) strain. Spermine, a novel inducer of tobacco PR (pathogenesis-related) genes, was found to up-regulate expression of NHL3, NHL10 and NDR1. Green fluorescent protein-fusion experiments indicated that NHL2 and NHL10, and possibly NDR1 are localized in the chloroplasts. Studies using Arabidopsis mutants defective in salicylic acid (SA), ethylene and jasmonic acid signalling revealed that the senescence-associated expression of NHL10 is mediated by a pathway that involves SA but that NHL10 expression during CMV-induced HR and spermine treatment is totally independent of SA.
!~RES~!  HIN1 has been isolated as a gene that is up-regulated by bacterial harpins and by bacteria that elicit the HR in tobacco (Gopalan et al. CITATION). Upon the completion of the Arabidopsis genome sequencing, it was found that A. thaliana possesses 45 HIN1-like genes, including NDR1. These proteins share three conserved motif sequences and have one or two putative transmembrane domains (Dörmann et al. CITATION). These motifs are unique to this family of proteins. Two of these motifs (motif 2, NPNKRIGIYYD, and motif 3, PFYQGHKN) are particularly well conserved. Based on the phylogenic tree resulting from comparing the 45 Arabidopsis NHL proteins with tobacco HIN1, this gene family can be categorized into four classes (Fig. 1). Class 1 is further divided into two subclasses. We selected ten members of this family for analysis of their expression. Five (NHL2, NHL3, NHL8, NHL9 and NHL10) occur in the same subclass to which HIN1 belongs. Four (NHL1, NHL11, NHL12 and NHL22) belong to the second subclass of class 1. NDR1, which is required for Arabidopsis resistance to certain pathogens, was also included in the analysis. NHL8 is on chromosome 1, and NHL9 to NHL12 are clustered together on chromosome 2. NHL1 and NHL2 are also clustered together and are found on chromosome 3, as is NDR1. NHL22 and NHL3 are on chromosomes 4 and 5, respectively. [[FIGURE]]  The steady-state organ-specific mRNA levels of the ten NHL members were determined by Northern analysis of eight different organs taken from healthy Arabidopsis Col plants (Fig. 2). NHL1 and NHL3 transcripts appear to be rather abundant and are present in all organs except flowers. NHL2 transcripts are present in most of the tissues, albeit at lower levels than seen with NHL1 and NHL3. These observations are in agreement with those of Dörmann et al. (CITATION). NHL10 transcripts were observed to accumulate strongly in senescing rosette leaves. These transcripts are also present at lower levels in roots, young rosette leaves, cauline leaves and siliques, but are barely detectable in stems and flowers. This expression pattern of NHL10 is consistent with that reported in a previous publication, in which NHL10 is named YLS9 (yellow-leaf-specific; Yoshida et al. CITATION). Thus, our observations confirm that NHL10 is a useful molecular marker for leaf senescence in Arabidopsis. Transcripts of NHL12 are present in all leaves, stems and flowers, but only at very low levels in siliques and roots. NDR1 transcripts are present in roots, all leaves and stems under physiological conditions but not in flower organs. No signals for NHL8, NHL9, and NHL11/22 transcripts were detected in any of the organs tested. [[FIGURE]]  HR has been observed when the A. thaliana ecotype C24 is inoculated with the CMV-Y strain (Takahashi et al. CITATION). In contrast, the virulent strain CMV-B2 overcomes the defenses of A. thaliana C24. We used this system and Northern blotting to examine the effect of CMV inoculation on the expression of the ten NHL members. NHL1, NHL2, NHL3 and NDR1 were responsive in C24 plants inoculated with both the CMV-Y and the CMV-B2 strains (Fig. 3a). The steady-state mRNA levels of NDR1 increased up to ca. 3-fold after inoculation of the CMV-Y strain. It has been noted before that NDR1 transcription is up-regulated during infection with both virulent and avirulent bacteria (Century et al. CITATION, CITATION). In contrast, PR1 transcription is highly up-regulated in CMV-Y-inoculated plants but not in CMV-B2-inoculated plants. Interestingly, NHL10 transcripts behaved similarly to those of PR1. Time-course Northern analysis showed that NHL10 transcripts accumulated 24 h after inoculation (Fig. 3b), at which point necrotic local lesions began to appear (data not shown). Thus, similar to tobacco HIN1, NHL10 is specifically up-regulated in only an incompatible plant–viral pathogen interaction. Up-regulation of the expression of NHL8, NHL9, NHL11/22 and NHL12 is not detected with the inoculation of either virus. [[FIGURE]]  Application of Spm to tobacco induces the production of acidic PR proteins and renders the plant resistant to TMV infection (Yamakawa et al. CITATION). Based on these observations, we postulated that Spm may be a defense signalling-molecule and is thus involved in a plant defense response. We then found by screening with a differential-display method that the tobacco gene HIN1 is one of the Spm-responsive genes in this plant (Takahashi et al. CITATION). The NHL genes of Arabidopsis resemble HIN1, and thus we investigated the effect of several polyamines (putrescine, spermidine and Spm) and their biosynthetic precursors (ornithine and arginine) on the expression of the ten NHL genes (Fig. 4a). NHL3, NHL10 and NDR1 were specifically up-regulated by Spm, which is similar to PR1, while NHL12 was down-regulated. NHL2 transcription was slightly up-regulated by Spm. Like PR1, NHL3 and NDR1 were down-regulated by spermidine. NHL1, NHL8, NHL9, and NHL11/22 were unaffected by any of the chemicals. Among the three Spm-responsive genes, NHL10 was further investigated. Time-course analysis reveals that NHL10 transcripts start to accumulate 6 h after treatment with 0.5 mM Spm (Fig. 4b). Dose-dependent effects of Spm on NHL10 transcription were observed in the range of 0.1 to 0.5 mM, with saturation at 0.5 mM (Fig. 4c). [[FIGURE]]  The amino acid sequences of the ten NHL proteins, including NDR1, were subjected to PSORT analysis. This analysis predicted that the N-terminal regions of these proteins carry putative signal peptides that direct them to plastids and/or mitochondria. To investigate the cellular localization of these proteins, we made GFP-fusion constructs of five of the ten NHL proteins being investigated in this study. Thus, the entire coding regions of the NHL1, -2, -3, -10 and NDR1 proteins were fused in-frame with the open reading frame of GFP, and these constructs were introduced into Vicia faba leaves by particle bombardment. As a control for chloroplast localization, the leaves were bombarded with pLIP2–GFP (Wada et al. CITATION). The mitochondrial localization control (mt–GFP) was a GFP-fusion construct of the transit peptide from the Arabidopsis mitochondrial F0F1 ATPase-subunit (Chang et al. CITATION). pGFP2 is a basal vector that lacks any organellar targeting signals. These controls showed appropriate localization of green fluorescent signals, as the guard cells in the leaves bombarded with pGFP2 had signals in the whole cytoplasm while the pLIP2–GFP- and mt–GFP-bombarded guard cells showed signals in the chloroplasts and the mitochondria, respectively (Fig. 5). The signals in the cells receiving pNHL2–GFP and pNHL10–GFP were found exclusively in the chloroplasts (Fig. 5b). This was confirmed by merging these images with those of the autofluorescence of chloroplasts (Fig. 5d). Similarly, chloroplast localization of NDR1 is highly possible. The organs emitting green fluorescence in pNHL1–GFP- and pNHL3–GFP-bombarded cells differ from those of NHL2, NHL10 and NDR1 (Fig. 5). To assign what they are, further work is required. It is likely that the different NHL family members are not located in the same organelles. [[FIGURE]]  ET and JA are known as senescence-promoting phytohormones (Thomas and Stoddart CITATION; Noodén CITATION), and SA has been identified as a signalling molecule that controls gene expression in senescing leaves (Morris et al. CITATION; Buchanan-Wollaston et al. CITATION). Furthermore, it is known that these three compounds also play important roles in the defensive response to pathogen attack (Reymond and Farmer CITATION). These facts prompted us to examine NHL10 expression in several SA-, ET- and JA-signalling-defective mutants, namely, the eds5-1 (Glazebrook et al. CITATION), etr1-3 (Chang et al. CITATION), ein2-1 (Alonso et al. CITATION), coi1 (Xie et al. CITATION), NahG (Shah et al. CITATION), and npr1-5 (Shah et al. CITATION, CITATION) mutant Arabidopsis plants. The first four plants are on the Col background while the latter two are on the No background. We first assessed the senescence-associated expression of NHL10 in these mutants by loading the same amount of total RNA in each lane (Fig. 6). We confirmed that NHL10 expression is associated with natural leaf senescence in the two background ecotypes Col and No (Fig. 6). However, this age-dependent induction was considerably reduced in the NahG and npr1-5 mutants and partially inhibited in the eds5-1 mutant. These three mutants show a defect in SA signalling. In the ET-signalling-defective etr1-3 plants, NHL10 transcript accumulation in aged leaves was also partly repressed. In the ein2-1 (ET-signalling defective) and coi1 (JA-signalling defective) mutants, NHL10 transcripts were detected at lower levels in young leaves but the NHL10 transcript level in the senescing leaves was unimpaired compared with that of the wild-type plants. These observations suggest that SA is involved in senescence-associated NHL10 expression but JA is not, and that whether ET is participating in the process is uncertain. [[FIGURE]]  The A. thaliana ecotype C24 displays an HR upon CMV-Y inoculation (Takahashi et al. CITATION) and the causal R gene was mapped, cloned and identified as RCY1 (Takahashi et al. CITATION, CITATION). SA-, ET- and JA-signalling mutants carrying this R gene were inoculated with CMV-Y or CMV-B2, and NHL10 expression was investigated by Northern analysis. The HR-specific expression of NHL10 in the six mutant plants was not affected (Fig. 7). This result indicates that the enhanced expression of NHL10 during this HR is independent of the SA-, ET- and JA-signalling pathways. [[FIGURE]]  As shown in Fig. 4, Spm treatment of Arabidopsis induces NHL10 expression. We investigated whether SA, ET or JA is involved in the response of NHL10 to Spm by using the SA-, ET- and JA-signalling-defective plants. Figure 8 clearly shows that the expression profiles of NHL10 in eds5-1, NahG, and npr1-3 treated with Spm were almost identical to those of the wild types, suggesting that the response is independent of SA. Spm-induced expression of NHL10 was also not affected at all in the ET-signalling (etr3-1, ein2) and JA-signalling (coi1) mutants. Thus, it appears that the response of NHL10 to Spm is mediated through SA-, ET- and JA-independent pathways. [[FIGURE]]  In coil plants the PR1 transcripts accumulated even without any elicitor treatment (Fig. 8). The level of SA in these mutants is likely to be elevated by wounding. In this context it should also be noted that in the mutants a hyperactivation of PR1 expression and an accumulation of SA were observed after an attack by bacterial pathogens (Kloek et al. CITATION).
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heyhn. ecotypes Colombia (Col), C24 and Nössen (No) were provided by The Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC) at The Ohio State University and used as wild-type plants. Their derivatives were also used in this study. These include the eds5-1 (Glazebrook et al. CITATION), etr1-3 (Chang et al. CITATION), ein2-1 (Alonso et al. CITATION) and coi1 (Xie et al. CITATION) mutant plants, which are on the Col background, and the NahG (Shah et al. CITATION) and npr1-5 (Shah et al. CITATION, CITATION) mutants, which are on the No background. Arabidopsis plants were grown on vermiculite in the greenhouse at 21°C under a 16 h light/8 h dark regime. Vicia faba L. (cv. Uchikoshi-issun) seeds were purchased from the Sakata Seed Co., Japan and fully expanded leaves were used for particle bombardment.  A. thaliana ecotype C24 and the mutant derivates were grown as described above. Their fully expanded leaves were rub-inoculated with 100 μg ml−1 of CMV-Y (Tomaru and Hidaka CITATION) or an Indonesian isolate of CMV (CMV-B2, Suastika et al. CITATION) as described by Takahashi et al. (CITATION). Chemicals of an analytical grade were applied to detached young rosette leaves floating on Murashige and Skoog (MS) media. The leaves were incubated for the indicated periods at 21°C under continuous light. Polyamines and their biosynthetic precursors were added at 500 μM unless otherwise indicated. Total RNAs isolated by the ATA method (Nagy et al. CITATION) were size-separated on formaldehyde–1% agarose gels and transferred to a nylon membrane (Hybond-N; Amersham). The blots were hybridized with gene-specific probes that had been labelled with the DIG (digoxigenin) DNA Labeling Kit (Boehringer Mannheim). In the cases of NHL1 to NHL3, NHL8, NHL9 and NHL12, the 3′-untranslated (UTR) regions were used, whereas in NHL11 and NHL22 the 5′-UTR regions were used. For NDR1, the region encoding the C-distal half of the gene’s product was used as the probe. Among those probes, the highest identity (63.4%) was scored between those of NHL2 and NHL3. We have confirmed that no cross-hybridization between the gene-specific probes and the nine other full-length cDNAs occurred (data not shown). To amplify the gene-specific probes, the following primer pairs were used: NHL1: 5′-gagttatcgtcggagacaacgccgttaag-3′, and 5′-catcacaacttataatagaatttagaattc-3′; NHL2: 5′gaaatctgggatatatcggattagtgcg-3′, and 5′-agagtaagaacaaataaatcaacataatc-3′; NHL3: 5′-gttgatcaagtcgtggaggttcaagccc-3′, and 5′-aaacaaaatgtgattatttatttacatgg-3′; NHL8: 5′-tgtgttggaagtgagaatcctag-3′, and 5′-agaccacatcattgtcctaagac-3′; NHL9: 5′-aagtgtcatctcaaagtcccctt-3′, and 5′-aagaataaaagacaaaccaaggc-3′; NHL10: 5′-aatatagagatcaagttcaggcttaggg-3′, and 5′-ttctaaagagcctattggatacatttgt-3′; NHL11/22: 5′-atcactcatacatcttctccatc-3′, and 5′-tgtgttgggatttctctgtttct-3′; NHL12: 5′-gatcaataagtgcagtgtcaatgtttagtagg-3′, and 5′-atttcttataatttcagaactacgt-3′; NDR1: 5′-aagttctatcaaggacacaagaagaagg-3′, and 5′-ttaacgaatagcaaagaatacgagtaaa-3′.   NHL1: 5′-gagttatcgtcggagacaacgccgttaag-3′, and 5′-catcacaacttataatagaatttagaattc-3′;  NHL2: 5′gaaatctgggatatatcggattagtgcg-3′, and 5′-agagtaagaacaaataaatcaacataatc-3′;  NHL3: 5′-gttgatcaagtcgtggaggttcaagccc-3′, and 5′-aaacaaaatgtgattatttatttacatgg-3′;  NHL8: 5′-tgtgttggaagtgagaatcctag-3′, and 5′-agaccacatcattgtcctaagac-3′;  NHL9: 5′-aagtgtcatctcaaagtcccctt-3′, and 5′-aagaataaaagacaaaccaaggc-3′;  NHL10: 5′-aatatagagatcaagttcaggcttaggg-3′, and 5′-ttctaaagagcctattggatacatttgt-3′;  NHL11/22: 5′-atcactcatacatcttctccatc-3′, and 5′-tgtgttgggatttctctgtttct-3′;  NHL12: 5′-gatcaataagtgcagtgtcaatgtttagtagg-3′, and 5′-atttcttataatttcagaactacgt-3′;  NDR1: 5′-aagttctatcaaggacacaagaagaagg-3′, and 5′-ttaacgaatagcaaagaatacgagtaaa-3′. The coding regions of NHL1, NHL2, NHL3, NHL10 and NDR1 were amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with the appropriate primer pairs, namely: NHL1: 5′-attctagatgaaagactgtgaaaaccacgg-3′ and 5′-aaggtacccacactaacactacaactagtgg-3′; NHL2: 5′-attctagacatggggtccaaacaacc-3′ and 5′-aaggtaccagataagtcaaagtcacactgc-3′; NHL3: 5′-attctagatggcggacttaaacggtgcg-3′ and 5′-aaggtaccaaagtcaacgtcacacttggtcgg-3′; NHL10: 5′-attctagatggctgctgaacaacctctcaatg-3′ and 5′-aaggtaccgaagtcgaagtcgcacttgatcg-3′; NDR1: 5′-attctagatgaataatcaaaatgaagacacag-3′ and 5′-aaggtaccacgaatagcaaagaatacgagtaaattc-3′. The PCR products were subcloned into the pGEM-T Easy vector (Promega) and transformed into Escherichia coli. The plasmids carrying the correct inserts were digested with XbaI and KpnI, and the resulting fragments were subcloned into the appropriate sites of the pGFP-2 vector (provided by Dr. N.-H. Chua). The resultant constructs were introduced into V. faba leaves by particle bombardment. The leaves were then incubated for more than 6 h at 22°C in darkness, after which the epidermal layers on the bombarded side were peeled off and observed with a fluorescence microscope (Axioplan 2; Zeiss) as described by Yang et al. (CITATION).  NHL1: 5′-attctagatgaaagactgtgaaaaccacgg-3′ and 5′-aaggtacccacactaacactacaactagtgg-3′;  NHL2: 5′-attctagacatggggtccaaacaacc-3′ and 5′-aaggtaccagataagtcaaagtcacactgc-3′;  NHL3: 5′-attctagatggcggacttaaacggtgcg-3′ and 5′-aaggtaccaaagtcaacgtcacacttggtcgg-3′;  NHL10: 5′-attctagatggctgctgaacaacctctcaatg-3′ and 5′-aaggtaccgaagtcgaagtcgcacttgatcg-3′;  NDR1: 5′-attctagatgaataatcaaaatgaagacacag-3′ and 5′-aaggtaccacgaatagcaaagaatacgagtaaattc-3′. Chlorophyll contents were determined according to the method reported by Lichtenthaler (CITATION). Briefly, plant leaves powdered with mortar and pestle under liquid nitrogen were extracted with 80% acetone solution, and absorbance at 664 nm and 647 nm of the greenish supernatant was measured. The chlorophyll contents were then calculated. Signal transduction mutants carrying homozygous RCY1 together with the mutant alleles were screened in the F2, F3 or F4 progenies resulting from crosses between C24 and the six mutants, namely, eds5-1, etr1-3, ein2-1, coi1-1, npr1 and NahG. The details of this screening have been described in Takahashi et al (CITATION).
