!~ABS~! A novel insight into Arabidopsis mitochondrial function was revealed from a large experimental proteome derived by liquid chromatography–tandem mass spectrometry. Within the experimental set of 416 identified proteins, a significant number of low-abundance proteins involved in DNA synthesis, transcriptional regulation, protein complex assembly, and cellular signaling were discovered. Nearly 20% of the experimentally identified proteins are of unknown function, suggesting a wealth of undiscovered mitochondrial functions in plants. Only approximately half of the experimental set is predicted to be mitochondrial by targeting prediction programs, allowing an assessment of the benefits and limitations of these programs in determining plant mitochondrial proteomes. Maps of putative orthology networks between yeast, human, and Arabidopsis mitochondrial proteomes and the Rickettsia prowazekii proteome provide detailed insights into the divergence of the plant mitochondrial proteome from those of other eukaryotes. These show a clear set of putative cross-species orthologs in the core metabolic functions of mitochondria, whereas considerable diversity exists in many signaling and regulatory functions.
!~RES~! Previous evaluation of the whole Arabidopsis mitochondrial proteome using gel display and MS identified a nonredundant set of 92 proteins (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). A variety of more targeted studies of protein fractions and protein complexes partially purified from Arabidopsis mitochondria also have been undertaken (CITATION; CITATION, CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Combining the data presented in all of these reports produces a nonredundant protein set of 145 experimentally determined Arabidopsis mitochondrial proteins. Our analysis of a membrane-enriched submitochondrial fraction from Arabidopsis cell culture using blue-native PAGE and MS/MS yielded many confirmatory identifications along with an additional 35 previously unidentified proteins (see supplemental data online). Altogether, 180 discrete proteins have been identified in Arabidopsis mitochondrial preparations using various gel-based arraying techniques. To overcome the clear limitations of these techniques, we undertook a systematic LC-MS/MS study of total Arabidopsis mitochondrial protein lysates. Mitochondria were isolated using two successive Percoll gradients designed to remove plastid and peroxisomal contaminants from crude organelle pellets derived from Arabidopsis cell cultures (CITATION) (Figure 1A). Using marker enzymes to determine the purity of these mitochondria, we showed that mitochondria were separated away from cytosolic, plastid, and peroxisomal contaminants (Figures 1A and 1B). Based on the calculations presented in Methods, the likely contamination on a protein basis in our purified mitochondrial samples was ∼1.5% for plastidic protein and less than ∼0.2% for peroxisomal protein (Figure 1B). [[FIGURE]] LC-MS/MS allows the direct identification of peptides derived from trypsin digestions of complex polypeptide samples, such as mitochondria, without the use of any preliminary gel separation of the polypeptides. This approach potentially can alleviate the problems of highly hydrophobic, basic, and small or very large molecular mass proteins being excluded from analysis, as often happens in polyacrylamide gel–based separations. Using high-stringency cutoffs for peptide matching in five independent mitochondrial samples isolated in this manner, the LC-MS/MS technique produced ∼2400 peptide MS/MS spectra that could be mapped redundantly to 390 Arabidopsis proteins. An overall comparison of gel-based and LC-MS/MS methods indicated that >95% of the proteins identified previously by two-dimensional gel analysis of whole mitochondrial samples (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) were confirmed by LC-MS/MS (Table 1). Also, >80% of the proteins identified previously during purifications of particular subsets and protein complexes of mitochondrial proteins also were confirmed by our LC-MS/MS (CITATION; CITATION, CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Among 180 proteins defined by gel-based analysis, we confirmed 154 by LC-MS/MS (85%). The remaining 26 proteins identified previously using gel-based techniques were not found through the LC-MS/MS procedure (Table 1). A number of these 26 proteins were oxidative stress–induced proteins (CITATION); thus, their absence from our LC-MS/MS analyses of mitochondria from unstressed cells is understandable. This very high overlap between gel-array techniques and the LC-MS/MS method highlights the effectiveness of non-gel-based analysis and its broad application in proteomics. The data from the combination of these techniques yield a nonredundant Arabidopsis mitochondrial set of 416 proteins (154 defined by LC-MS/MS and gel separations, 26 by gel-based analysis only, and 236 by LC-MS/MS only; see supplemental data online). Of these, 407 are nucleus-encoded proteins and 9 are mitochondria-encoded proteins. Annotation of a relational database with these proteins allowed continued analysis of the set in the context of the whole Arabidopsis protein set. This database is now available publicly (http://www.mitoz.bcs.uwa.edu.au). Functional Breakdown of the Arabidopsis Mitochondrial Set Each member of the mitochondrial proteome set described above was assigned to a functional category using common functional divisions. Where annotations were unclear, a Basic Local Alignment Search Tool (BLAST) query against SWISS-PROT was undertaken for functional inference. This analysis produced 13 functional groups (Table 1). Known protein functions that are represented most highly in the mitochondrial proteome set are those involving energy (24%), metabolism (19%), and protein fate (13%). The proteins in these functional groups are generally well-characterized mitochondrial components of the tricarboxylic acid cycle, the respiratory chain, and the mitochondrial protein import, processing, assembly, and degradation machinery. The relative expression levels of proteins in these principal functional categories were profiled using EST numbers. More than 55% of the proteins that perform energy and metabolic roles and 30% of the proteins involved in protein fate are represented by >10 ESTs (data not shown). Nearly 75% of the energy group had been identified previously in gel-based separations, but the metabolism and protein fate groups contained many novel LC-MS/MS identifications. Approximately 25% of the identified proteins were involved in information-transfer processes (DNA/RNA synthesis and processing and protein synthesis), were defense/stress proteins, or were responsible for cellular interaction functions (transport, cell structure, and signal transduction proteins) (Table 1). The identification of proteins in these groups was aided by novel LC-MS/MS identifications. Only 34 proteins in these functional categories were identified in previous gel-based separations. We have confirmed 27 of these by LC-MS/MS and have added a novel set of 66 identifications to these sets of largely low-abundance components. Even when sequence similarity searches were undertaken against the nonredundant protein database at the National Center for Biotechnology Information, 71 proteins (17%) could not be confidently assigned a function and have been designated unclassified proteins. A similarly large set of unclassified proteins also was found in recent human and yeast mitochondrial proteome analyses (CITATION; CITATION). The physical attributes of mitochondrial proteins identified solely by isoelectric focusing followed by SDS-PAGE often appear skewed compared with those of total proteomes because of the lack of identification of large and small proteins and the low detection rates of basic, hydrophobic, and low-abundance proteins (CITATION). The use of LC-MS/MS greatly aided in the identification of large proteins (>80 kD) and proteins that were moderately hydrophobic (data not shown). The set of 416 mitochondrial proteins covered an isoelectric point range of 4 to 11, a molecular mass range of 6 to 428 kD, and a GRAVY (grand average of hydropathicity) range of −1.6 to +1.0 (−GRAVY = hydrophilic, +GRAVY = hydrophobic). The representation of proteins in EST databases allowed an assessment of transcript abundance, and thus probable protein abundance, for different gene products. Most interestingly, there was a shift to much lower EST numbers for the new protein set identified only by LC-MS/MS (Figure 2). Nearly 45% of the novel identifications were represented by four or fewer ESTs (compared with only 17% of gel-based identifications). Some 39 newly identified proteins were so low in abundance that ESTs had not been reported by The Institute for Genomic Research (TIGR) at the time of writing (Figure 2). The large number of low-EST-number members in our protein set could be viewed as evidence that low-abundance paralogs, or even pseudogenes with high levels of identity to major protein isoforms, are clouding the analysis we have presented. A stringent analysis of all of the peptide sequences matched to proteins in our analysis was performed, and potential paralogs in our set are listed in the supplemental data online. These findings show that 15 proteins were identified that have no unique peptides that differentiate them from a highly similar paralog, whereas another 11 were identified with unique peptide sequences but the unique peptide(s) were of low matching confidence. There were also two cases in which all isoforms of some protein families were indistinguishable from each other as a result of very high sequence identity. However, the latter are well-characterized, abundant mitochondrial proteins—an elongation factor and the β-subunit of ATP synthase—that are tandemly arranged duplications on Arabidopsis chromosomes (see supplemental data online). All possible paralogs of this type are annotated in the supplemental data online. However, these possible paralogs represent only 16 of the 106 proteins identified with four or fewer ESTs and only 2 of the possible paralogs are among the 39 proteins with no registered ESTs. Thus, the low number of ESTs among the novel LC-MS/MS data broadly reflects low-abundance proteins within the mitochondrial proteome that originates from a low-abundance proteome within plant cells. This finding strongly suggests that a significant depth of the proteome has been revealed by our analysis: the identification of key low-abundance components. Many of these are in important areas of mitochondrial information transfer, regulation, and signaling. [[FIGURE]] The full set of experimentally identified proteins is provided in the supplemental data online or can be relationally searched directly at The Arabidopsis Mitochondrial Protein DataBase (http://www.mitoz.bcs.uwa.edu.au). We have identified many of the well-defined components of mitochondria, the electron transport chain, the tricarboxylic acid cycle, metabolic carriers, and the import apparatus. Among the remaining identifications, several prominent sets are worthy of more extensive comment, most notably the new identifications of low-abundance proteins with potentially key roles in mitochondrial function. There is increasing interest in intramitochondrial signaling pathways and also in the communication of mitochondria with the cytosol and other organelles, most notably the chloroplast and the nucleus. There also is extensive discussion of reactive oxygen species as signal molecules from mitochondria to other parts of the cell (CITATION) but little information on the pathways involved. Likewise, the presence of phosphorylated proteins in plant mitochondria has been documented (CITATION, CITATION), but again, there is little information on the kinase/phosphatases involved or any associated signaling components that may regulate signaling through phosphorylation/dephosphorylation. Despite the importance of calcium in regulating mammalian mitochondrial function (CITATION), there is no direct evidence for such a role in plants. We have found mitochondrial protein components that may be involved in some of these processes. A set of 10 protein kinases, including Leu-rich repeat transmembrane protein kinases, receptor-like protein kinases, Ser-Thr kinases, and a mitogen-activated protein–like kinase, has been identified. No potential components of phosphorylation signaling pathways have been identified previously in plant mitochondria. Two of the Leu-rich repeat transmembrane receptor protein kinases (At1g74360 and At2g26330) show high sequence similarity to a protein kinase of unknown function found recently in human mitochondria (CITATION). Nearly all of these kinases are very poorly represented in EST databases, all are individuals of large protein kinases subclasses, and none has a clear mitochondrial targeting sequence identified by bioinformatic predictors (Table 2). In addition to these discoveries is evidence for a 2A protein phosphatase regulatory subunit, a GTP binding protein, and several putative Ca2+ binding proteins. One of the putative Ca2+ binding proteins (At3g59820) is very similar in sequence to one found in mammalian mitochondria (CITATION). A protein with sequence similarity to FRO1-like NADPH oxidase also was found. This protein generates superoxide from NADPH and has been linked to mitogenic signaling and cancer in smooth muscle cells in mammals (CITATION). Protein Kinases Identified in the Arabidopsis Mitochondrial Set More than 50 proteins involved in protein fate were identified. These proteins spanned protein import and sorting, presequence cleavage, molecular chaperone, complex assembly, and proteolysis functions. Protein components of the LON, Clp, and FtsH protease systems and three other putative proteases were identified. Seven subunits from the translocases of the outer and inner membranes (TOM and TIM) of the import apparatus also were found. Interestingly, four proteins with sequence similarity to components implicated specifically in the assembly of respiratory electron transport chain complexes were found. These included At5g51220 and At1g07510/At3g17910, which are similar to two yeast factors required for the assembly of complex III of the respiratory chain (C3BP and BCS1, respectively). We also found a putative cytochrome c oxidase assembly factor similar to the yeast SHY1/surf1 protein. The absence of SHY1 in yeast leads to <30% cytochrome c oxidase assembly, while mutations of the human ortholog (surf1) lead to Leigh syndrome (CITATION). Cytochrome c biogenesis in plant mitochondria occurs by the system-I mechanism that is shared in common with bacteria but differs from the systems used in chloroplasts (system II) and fungal, vertebrate, and invertebrate animal mitochondria (system III) (CITATION). Although some of the system-I components are encoded in the mitochondrial genomes of plants, others have been transferred to the nucleus. We have identified a protein similar to the bacterial cycL/ccl2/ccmH subunit, which is critical for conferring specificity to the thio-redox pathway of cytochrome c biogenesis. To our knowledge, this plant mitochondrial CCMH-like gene (At1g15220) has not been described in plant studies to date. We also found two proteins similar to the yeast AFG3 metalloprotease that is of the AAA-type ATPase family. These proteases have been implicated in the regulation of the electron transport chain through the degradation of unincorporated or incompletely synthesized mitochondria-encoded proteins in yeast (CITATION). Low-abundance proteins from these classes have been poorly represented in proteomic studies of plant mitochondria to date. A DNA polymerase and several DNA gyrase subunits were localized to mitochondria in this study. Several differentiation and greening (DAG)-like proteins also were found. Although DAG proteins were associated initially with chloroplasts, a member of this gene family has been reported in two-dimensional PAGE analyses of plant mitochondria (CITATION). In both snapdragon and Arabidopsis, the absence of specific DAG proteins greatly influences chloroplast differentiation and palisade tissue development (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). However, to our knowledge, the functions of these proteins in mitochondria have not been reported. Transcription initiator and terminator factors, and a series of proteins from transcription factor gene families, also were identified. We also found a protein (At5g12290) highly similar to a protein responsible for the regulation of the abundance of transcripts from mitochondrial respiratory genes in yeast. NCA2 is a nucleus-encoded protein involved in the turnover of ATP6/ATP8 transcripts in yeast mitochondria (CITATION). We also identified peptides from several RNA helicases and 10 pentatricopeptide repeat proteins. The latter are highly represented in plant genomes and have roles as restorers of cytoplasmic male sterility (CITATION) and putative roles in RNA editing (CITATION). We have identified several proteins involved in iron metabolism, including two putative ABC transporters (At4g28620 and At5g58270) with strong sequence similarity to yeast ATM1, the mitochondrial Fe-S transporter (CITATION). We also identified a Cys desulfurase (At5g65720) with sequence similarity to Nfs1 from yeast (the yeast ortholog of bacterial NifS). In yeast, these proteins act in concert for the synthesis and transport of Fe/S clusters and have been shown to play an essential role in the synthesis of both intramitochondrial and extramitochondrial Fe/S proteins (CITATION). In plants, forward genetics identified this ABC transporter gene (At5g58270) as the basis for the starik mutant, which has a dwarfism/chlorosis phenotype (CITATION). We also identified eight carriers of the mitochondrial carrier superfamily, including two additional carriers not detected in a previous analysis of this superfamily (CITATION). One of these new identifications has strong similarity to carnitine-acylcarnitine carriers (At5g46800), and the other is a mitochondrial carrier of unknown function (At5g15640). In mammalian mitochondria, carnitine acyl carrier proteins transport lipid-derived molecules across mitochondrial membranes for energy and carbon supply. The carnitine-acylcarnitine carrier was revealed recently as the gene responsible for the à bout de souffle Arabidopsis mutation (CITATION). This mutant plant stops developing after germination, degrades storage lipids, and develops further only when germinated in the dark or after the addition of exogenous sugar (CITATION). We have direct evidence for the presence of enzymes putatively responsible for the bypasses of the respiratory chain in plants, with proteins for rotenone-insensitive NAD(P)H-dependent ubiquinone oxidoreductases and the alternative oxidase reported. We also show that both the α- and β-subunits of the electron transport flavoprotein (At1g50940 and At5g43430) are present in Arabidopsis mitochondria. These proteins are responsible for direct electron transfer from fatty acid to ubiquinone and branched chain amino acid oxidation in mammals (CITATION), but they have not been investigated in plants. In addition to the proteins described above, 71 proteins were identified for which no clear function could be assigned. Only 13 of these proteins were identified in previous gel-based proteome analyses (Table 1). The identification of these proteins provides a basis for the use of reverse genetics to identify novel mitochondrial functions in plants. To determine whether the identified proteins are truly mitochondrial or to what degree some proteins are from low-level contamination in our mitochondrial samples from other cellular compartments, we compared our analysis to those performed for other organelles from Arabidopsis (see supplemental data online). Three catalase proteins have been identified in our mitochondrial set, and although several claims of low levels of mitochondrially localized catalase in plants have been made, these proteins typically represent the bulk of peroxisomal protein. Two catalase proteins (At1g20620 and At4g35090) in our mitochondrial set are among the set of highly abundant proteins identified by CITATION in their peroxisomal proteome analysis. None of the other peroxisomal proteins noted by CITATION were found in our mitochondrial analysis. Of the 461 nonredundant proteins identified definitively in large-scale thylakoid, lumen, and envelope preparations from Arabidopsis by MS (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), only 31 are found in our mitochondrial set. These are presented in the supplemental data online, where they are dissected into probable mitochondrial contaminants in chloroplast preparations (12), probable chloroplast contaminants in mitochondrial preparations (12), unknown location (4), and probable peroxisomal contaminants in mitochondria and chloroplasts (3). Thus, there are 15 proteins that probably represent a combination of chloroplast and peroxisomal contamination. These published sets from other organelles also are available for relational searches in a database we have established (http://www.mitoz.bcs.uwa.edu.au). There is the further possibility that some of these apparent contaminants could be dual-targeted proteins in plants, reflecting their presence in multiple compartments (CITATION). We recently showed that the stromal ascorbate peroxidase and stromal monodehydroascorbate reductase identified in this LC-MS/MS experiment (At4g08390 and At1g63940) are authentically dual targeted to chloroplasts and mitochondria in Arabidopsis (CITATION). We also have shown that a range of glycolytic enzymes identified here by LC-MS/MS are present in our samples, because glycolytic enzymes found in the cytosol also are associated functionally with the outer membrane of plant mitochondria (CITATION). Because the endosymbiosis of the mitochondrial progenitor by the ancestral eukaryotic cell occurred before the divergence of plants and animals (CITATION), cross-kingdom similarity comparisons can be used to identify putative orthologous proteins with conserved function. Mitochondrial protein sets from both yeast (552 proteins) (CITATION) and human (615 proteins) (CITATION) are available, as is the protein set from the closest living relative to the mitochondrial progenitor, the bacterial endosymbiont Rickettsia prowazekii (834 proteins) (CITATION). These three sets were compared with the entire Arabidopsis proteome using the program INPARANOID (CITATION). This program searches for high-stringency orthologous clusters between two protein sets, providing clusters of paralogs within species and orthologs across species. Gene matching using this procedure is considered to exclude many lower similarity matches for which true cluster orthology, and thus conserved functionality, is questionable. A reduced mitochondrial set of 377 proteins that excluded the 26 possible paralogs (see supplemental data online) and the partially overlapping set of 15 probable contaminants (see supplemental data online) was constructed and used for this orthology comparison. A total of 117 yeast mitochondrial proteins were identified as putative orthologs of this reduced Arabidopsis mitochondrial protein set. More than 75% of the putative orthologs fall into the major functional groups of energy, metabolism, and protein fate, which encompass only 55% of the total Arabidopsis mitochondrial set (Figure 3). Similar comparisons with the human mitochondrial proteome and the Rickettsia protein set identified 148 putative orthologs to human mitochondrial proteins and 85 putative orthologs to Rickettsia proteins within the Arabidopsis mitochondrial set. In total, 50% (189 proteins) of the Arabidopsis mitochondrial set had putative orthologous matches with at least one protein from yeast mitochondrial, human mitochondrial, or Rickettsia proteomic sets (Figure 3, any one). The putative orthology networks derived from these comparisons has a strict common overlap of 45 proteins (Figure 3, all three), in which an individual Arabidopsis protein has a putative ortholog in the protein set from each of the three other species. This forms a central cluster of putative orthologs between the Rickettsia set and the current mitochondrial proteomes of divergent organisms. This common set is very heavily skewed toward the functional category of energy (70%), with several members from the metabolism (13%) and protein fate (15%) categories (Figure 3). [[FIGURE]] We found very different putative orthology patterns when we considered the low-abundance proteins involved in mitochondria–cellular interaction (signaling, transport, and structure) and information-transfer processes (DNA synthesis and processing, transcription, and RNA binding/processing) (Table 3). Although putative orthologous proteins were present in most of these functional classes, the overlap between different organisms was very low, and no one protein common to each of the protein sets was found by INPARANOID analysis. The kinases observed in human and plant mitochondria were absent from yeast mitochondrial sets, whereas plant transporters and transcriptional regulators present in the yeast set were not in the human set. Interestingly, the DNA gyrase subunits A and B found in Arabidopsis mitochondria have putative orthologs among Rickettsia proteins but not among yeast or human mitochondrial proteins. Significantly, the large set of Arabidopsis proteins of unknown function do not have many putative orthologs in other species, suggesting that they are likely to be largely plant-specific mitochondrial proteins (Table 3). Minor Functional Group Distributions of the Arabidopsis Mitochondrial Set with Matching Sequence Orthologs from Yeast, Human, and Rickettsia We compared our reduced experimental set of 377 proteins, which contained 368 nucleus-encoded proteins, with those proteins predicted to be mitochondrial by publicly available subcellular targeting prediction programs: TargetP, Predotar, MitoProt II, SubLoc, and iPSORT. The number of nucleus-encoded Arabidopsis proteins predicted by each program to be targeted to mitochondria ranged from 3000 to 4500 (Table 4). The ability of the various targeting programs to correctly predict the experimental Arabidopsis mitochondrial set was significantly less than expected (Table 4). The successful prediction rates are presented as sensitivity, defined as the percentage of the experimental set predicted correctly (Table 4). Sensitivities of these programs were in the range of 37 to 47% for the set of 368 proteins. We then defined an even more reduced set of proteins that have been found in gel-based proteome analysis and also in our LC-MS/MS experiments: these are 143 higher abundance proteins with very high identification confidence values. In this set, the sensitivities of the programs increased to 49 to 68%. For comparison, we also considered the prediction sensitivities of TargetP and MitoProt II on the defined mammalian and yeast mitochondrial sets (CITATION; CITATION). These showed sensitivities of 42 to 59% depending on the predictor and the species (data not shown). Another recent analysis of the yeast experimental mitochondrial proteome set with MitoProt II showed that only 43% of proteins contain predicted N-terminal presequences (CITATION). All of these values are significantly lower than the previously reported sensitivities of 80 to 90% for mitochondrial prediction that generally are attributed to these programs (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Evaluation of Mitochondrial Prediction in Arabidopsis by Bioinformatic Subcellular Predictors The use of only well-known mitochondrial proteins in the initial neural network training of these programs may have contributed to the previously reported high percentages and the increases observed when only the major, well-known proteins of mitochondria were considered in our analysis (Table 4). In the case of the rule-based MitoProt II, sensitivity was assessed previously using a set of proteins that also would have been examined in the initial appraisal of the rules for organellar targeting (CITATION). That is, the previous values are based on a certain degree of circular logic and rely on a known set of largely matrix-targeted mitochondrial proteins with classic N-terminal presequences that does not truly represent the breadth of the real mitochondrial proteomes in plants, animals, or fungi. Our experimental data set includes noncleaved proteins and/or those with internal, C-terminal, or cryptic targeting signals that have not been incorporated in previous test sets for sensitivity. Sensitivity, however, also must be balanced by the size of the total protein set from the genome predicted by a program to be mitochondrial (Table 4). Based on such comparisons, the program TargetP predicts the largest positive set from the smallest total pool, whereas the program Predotar is least efficient at predicting a similar number of our experimental set, but from a larger total pool. The program with the best combination of sensitivity and total prediction set size for mitochondria in Arabidopsis appears to be MitoProt II, whereas the worst performing program was SubLoc. A new version of Predotar (version 1.03) recently released on the World Wide Web (http://genoplante-info.infobiogen.fr/predotar) provides a much smaller set size in Arabidopsis (1148) but predicts only 121 of the proteins in our experimental set (sensitivity of 33%). To further assess prediction program performance, we assessed the overlapping prediction of the Arabidopsis protein set by the five predictors. In recent studies of mitochondria, combinations between TargetP, Predotar, and MitoProt II have been selected empirically as useful sets for fast tracking the identification of possible mitochondrial functions in plants that then require experimental investigation (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Using relational searches, a comparison of these programs predicting mitochondrial localization was undertaken (Table 5). The number of proteins uniquely predicted as mitochondrial by each of the five programs ranged from 400 to 2000 depending on the predictor (Table 5, positive column). The program SubLoc shared the least similarity in its targeting prediction to the other four programs. SubLoc predicted 1999 proteins, representing >75% of its total prediction set, that are not predicted to be mitochondrial by any other program. By contrast, the set of mitochondrial targeted proteins predicted by TargetP had the highest shared predictive set with the other programs, with only 424 proteins (14% of the total TargetP set) predicted by this program alone. To find consensus, an analysis was undertaken of the proteins uniquely predicted not to be localized to the mitochondria by a given program while the other four programs predicted a mitochondrial localization (Table 5, negative column). Only SubLoc displayed a significant lack of accord in its prediction pool, with 638 proteins uniquely predicted not to be mitochondrial, whereas the other four programs were in agreement. Prediction of Mitochondrial Localization in Arabidopsis When the overlap of prediction between any two programs was assessed, it could be as little as 20% (TargetP/SubLoc) and averaged only ∼45% (Tables 5 and 6). Overlap of more than two program prediction sets caused further reductions, to yield sets containing only 1 to 4% of the Arabidopsis protein set. The exclusive overlapping sets of predicted proteins are shown graphically in Figure 4A as a four-way Venn diagram highlighting the large sets of unique predictions by each program and the proportion of each exclusive intersect between prediction programs (the program SubLoc was excluded from this analysis because of its poor performance; see above). This Venn diagram analysis allowed us to determine that 8820 proteins, representing 32% of the total predicted protein set from Arabidopsis, are predicted to contain a mitochondrial localization signal recognized by at least one of the four better prediction programs. A mitochondrial proteome of this size is inconsistent with estimates of 5 to 10% of nucleus-encoded protein sets (typically 500 to 2000 proteins) proposed in other eukaryotes and would not be given credence by researchers. On the other hand, all four predictors agree on 848 members of this protein set (Figure 4A). This analysis shows that assigning probable mitochondrial localization based on only one or two prediction programs is unlikely to be accurate, because the choice of program can greatly influence the pool of proteins selected. The accuracy of prediction is likely to be highest in the set common to all of the prediction programs. Relational Combinations of the Five Prediction Programs Indicating the Number and Proteomic Percentage of Shared Proteins That They Predict To Be Localized to the Mitochondria [[FIGURE]] We also used relational searches to compare directly the overlapping mitochondrial prediction sets from bioinformatic tools with our reduced experimental data set of 368 nucleus-encoded proteins in an attempt to determine the most accurate overlapping combination of predictor programs for mitochondria. We found that although the total set predicted decreased when multiple predictors were used together (Figure 4A), the value of this was offset substantially by degradations in sensitivity (Figure 4B). Consequently, the use of multiple relational predictions generates an enriched mitochondrial pool but also excludes many genuine mitochondrial proteins that we observed in the experimental set. Thus, if the sequence of an unknown protein is predicted to be mitochondrial by a number of different programs, the probability that it is mitochondrial increases; however, the lack of prediction by any or by only some programs by no means precludes a mitochondrial destination.
!~MM~! An Arabidopsis thaliana (Landsberg erecta) cell culture was maintained in CITATION basal medium supplemented with 3% (w/v) sucrose, 0.5 mg/L naphthaleneacetic acid, and 0.05 mg/L kinetin. Cultures were incubated in the dark at 22°C in an orbital shaker at 150 rpm. At 6 to 7 days, each flask (120 mL of cell culture) containing 8 to 10 g (fresh weight) of cells was approximately in the middle of the log-phase growth. A total of 1.0 to 1.2 L of 7-day-old dark-grown cell suspension cultures was filtered through gauze to remove medium, and the cells were dispersed in 200 mL of grinding medium (0.45 M mannitol, 50 mM sodium pyrophosphate, 0.5% [w/v] BSA, 0.5% [w/v] polyvinylpyrrolidone 40, 2 mM EGTA, and 20 mM Cys, pH 8.0). The cells were disrupted in a Waring blender by three successive 15-s bursts. Cell homogenates were filtered through cheesecloth, and mitochondria were purified by differential centrifugation on two Percoll gradients according to CITATION. Purified mitochondrial aliquots (500 μg) were stored at −80°C. Marker enzyme analysis for cytochrome c oxidase, alkaline pyrophosphatase, catalase, and alcohol dehydrogenase was conducted according to CITATION. Based on the specific activities of marker enzymes in the mitochondria-containing fractions throughout the purification process, we concluded that plastidic contamination was decreased by 40-fold and peroxisomal contamination by 110-fold during the purification. Thus, even if the protein content of the crude pellet fraction was mainly one or the other of these two contaminating organelles (i.e., 90% plastid or peroxisomes), they could only present a maximum of 2.5% (90%/40-fold) and 1% (90%/110-fold) protein mass contamination, respectively, in our purified mitochondria. We also calculated an approximate protein mass ratio of the three organelles in the crude organelle pellet to further refine the level of contamination by peroxisomes and plastids. We did this using the protein amount found in the crude organelle pellet (∼20 mg per preparation), 70% recovery rates, and the protein amount in the purified mitochondrial fractions (∼4 mg per preparation) and peroxisome fractions (∼1.5 mg per preparation). This suggests that 28% of the crude pellet protein is mitochondrial and ∼11% is peroxisomal. We also calculated the amount of mitochondrial protein in the crude organelle pellet using cytochrome c oxidase–specific activities in the crude organelle pellet and the purified mitochondrial samples; this suggests ∼40% mitochondrial protein in the crude pellet. On average, these two methods give protein mass ratios of 60% plastidic, 30% mitochondrial, and 10% peroxisomal protein in the crude organelle pellet. Thus, the likely contamination on a protein basis in our purified mitochondrial samples is ∼1.5% plastidic in origin (60%/40-fold, with alkaline pyrophosphatase as a marker) and less than ∼0.2% peroxisomal in origin (10%/110-fold, with catalase as a marker). There was no detectible cytosolic contamination (alcohol dehydrogenase as a marker) (CITATION). For liquid chromatography–tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), mitochondrial samples of ∼500 μg were acetone precipitated at −20°C overnight. The resulting precipitated protein pellet was resuspended in 100 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.5. The protein lysate was digested overnight at 37°C with trypsin 1:10 (w/w), and insoluble material was removed by centrifugation. Samples of 15 to 20 μg of digested protein were analyzed on a QStar Pulsar MS/MS system (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA) using an in-line Agilent 1100 capillary LC system incorporating a 0.3 × 150 mm Zorbax C18 reverse-phase column (Agilent, Palo Alto, CA) for peptide separations. Peptides were analyzed by MS over a 10-h elution period with increasing acetonitrile concentrations from 2 to 80% (v/v) in water and 0.1% (v/v) formic acid at 4 μL/min. Ions were selected automatically for the N2 collision cell using the Analyst QS software package (Applied Biosystems). Ions were selected for collision-induced distortion (CID) from an initial time-of-flight scan (1 s) if they occurred between 400 and 1500 atomic mass units (mass-to-charge ratio), had a charge series of MH2+, MH3+, or MH4+, and had an ion count >10 cps. CID spectra were accumulated for 5 s. The resulting MS/MS-derived spectra were analyzed against an in-house database comprising The Institute for Genomic Research (TIGR) and National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) Arabidopsis proteins sets compiled with one allowable tryptic missed cleavage. Searches were conducted at error tolerances of ±0.15 for MS and ±0.05 for MS/MS, and only the top CID match for each spectrum was accepted. The Pro ID matching procedure initially uses the calculated parent mass of an ion to screen the database for theoretical peptides that fall within the MS error tolerance range. A peak list composed of 20 of the most intense masses from each half of the experimentally derived CID is used to match theoretical y and b series from the candidate peptides at the specified MS/MS mass tolerance and scored. The same procedure also is undertaken for a complementary list derived from the experimental masses and the calculated parent mass. The resulting score for each CID is a combination of the number of y and b ions matched and the statistical distance this match is from a random match. The final confidence score is applied to the matched protein and is represented as a percentage value. Using this procedure, five independent mitochondrial isolations were digested and analyzed by LC-MS/MS. Proteins qualified for inclusion in the experimental set if the protein matched with a Pro ID confidence score of 98% or greater and if the protein was identified in two or more experiments. Blue-native PAGE analysis was performed according to published methods (CITATION). Protein spots from blue-native PAGE gels were excised and prepared for analysis by MS according to CITATION. The MS/MS collision data derived from samples were analyzed with the Pro ID MS/MS analysis component of Analyst QS as described above. Where resulting matches were <98%, manual interpretations of the spectra were undertaken to confirm the protein match. These new gel matches are incorporated in the supplemental data online along with published identifications from gel-based experiments. The Arabidopsis Mitochondrial Protein DataBase (AMPDB) was constructed using the MySQL database server (version 3.23; http://www.mysql.com/) and interfaces through custom-built World Wide Web pages using Hypertext Preprocessor forms version 4 (http://www.php.net/). The nonredundant nuclear protein data set used to populate the database was obtained from TIGR (http://www.tigr.org/) as the file ATH1.pep, release 3 (including supplementary data), comprising 27,288 nonredundant proteins. Arabidopsis mitochondrial (117) and chloroplast (87) open reading frame sets were obtained from NCBI (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/). The AMPDB contains a total of 27,492 proteins. Primary attributes for proteins were produced using in-house scripts calculating molecular weight, grand average of hydropathicity (CITATION), and isoelectric point (CITATION, CITATION). Estimations of EST numbers for each chromosomal locus were obtained from The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR; February 2003). Functional assignments were made using annotations associated with each protein entry and through homology-based comparisons with the SWISS-PROT protein database using Basic Local Alignment Search Tool (BLAST; CITATION). Predictions of subcellular localization were undertaken using TargetP version 1.01 (CITATION) with “no cut-off” set and the “Plant” option selected, Predotar version 0.5 (http://www.inra.fr/predotar/), MitoProt II version 1.0a4 (CITATION) with a discriminant function for mitochondrial proteins cutoff between 0.7 and 1.0, iPSORT (CITATION) with the “Plant Protein” option selected, and SubLoc (CITATION) with “eukaryotic” selected. Targeting predictions were performed on the TIGR set described above. Arabidopsis mitochondrial sequence putative orthologs to yeast, human, and Rickettsia prowazekii proteins were determined using the program INPARANOID for two-way best pair-wise matches (CITATION). The yeast mitochondrial protein set was obtained from CITATION and comprises 552 proteins, the human mitochondrial protein set (615 proteins) was obtained as supplementary material from work described by CITATION, and the R. prowazekii Madrid E protein set comprising 834 entries was downloaded from the Comprehensive Microbial Resource at TIGR. This database will be made publicly available at http://www.mitoz.bcs.uwa.edu.au. Upon request, materials integral to the findings presented in this publication will be made available in a timely manner to all investigators on similar terms for noncommercial research purposes. To obtain materials, please contact A. Harvey Millar, hmillar{at}cyllene.uwa.edu.au.
