!~ABS~! Formins, actin-nucleating proteins that stimulate the de novo polymerization of actin filaments, are important for diverse cellular and developmental processes, especially those dependent on polarity establishment. A subset of plant formins, referred to as group I, is distinct from formins from other species in having evolved a unique N-terminal structure with a signal peptide, a Pro-rich, potentially glycosylated extracellular domain, and a transmembrane domain. We show here that overexpression of the Arabidopsis formin AFH1 in pollen tubes induces the formation of arrays of actin cables that project into the cytoplasm from the cell membrane and that its N-terminal structure targets AFH1 to the cell membrane. Pollen tube elongation is a polar cell growth process dependent on an active and tightly regulated actin cytoskeleton. Slight increases in AFH1 stimulate growth, but its overexpression induces tube broadening, growth depolarization, and growth arrest in transformed pollen tubes. These results suggest that AFH1-regulated actin polymerization is important for the polar pollen cell growth process. Moreover, severe membrane deformation was observed in the apical region of tip-expanded, AFH1-overexpressing pollen tubes in which an abundance of AFH1-induced membrane-associated actin cables was evident. These observations suggest that regulated AFH1 activity at the cell surface is important for maintaining tip-focused cell membrane expansion for the polar extension of pollen tubes. The cell surface–located group-I formins may play the integrin-analogous role as mediators of external stimuli to the actin cytoskeleton, and AFH1 could be important for mediating extracellular signals from female tissues to elicit the proper pollen tube growth response during pollination.
!~RES~! The promoter of the ubiquitously expressed AFH1 (CITATION) was active in elongating pollen tubes (Figure 2A), and full-length AFH1 cDNAs were recovered readily by reverse transcriptase–mediated PCR from Arabidopsis pollen mRNA (data not shown), suggesting the relative prevalence of AFH1 transcripts in the male gametophyte. The FH2 domain in AFH1 is ∼40% similar to the same domain in formins from yeast (38%) and human (46%). Its FH1 domain is similar to other formins in being Pro rich, including a stretch of nine Pro residues. To determine if the FH1 and FH2 domains in AFH1 are similar to their analogous domains in yeast formins in stimulating actin cable formation, the AFH1 N-terminal half–deleted mutant [FH1+FH2] (Figure 1) was expressed in transformed tobacco pollen tubes (Figures 2B and 2C). Because a functional green fluorescent protein (GFP)–labeled actin protein is not available for imaging the actin cytoskeleton in live plant cells, the pollen tube actin cytoskeleton was imaged by cotransformation with one of two actin binding protein genes: the pollen-expressed Lat52:GFP-mTalin (CITATION) and Lat52:GFP-NtADF1 (for Nicotiana tabacum actin-depolymerizing factor1) (CITATION). GFP-mTalin typically reveals an extensive array of long actin cables in the tube shank that terminate in the subapical region (Figure 2B, top image) (CITATION; CITATION). GFP-NtADF1 most prominently decorates a subapical actin mesh and, when expression level is higher, also binds to long actin cables in the shank (Figures 2C and 2D, top images) (CITATION). GFP-NtADF1 has little effect on pollen tube growth when expressed at moderate levels (CITATION) (see Figures 5A to 5C) and serves as a good alternative actin marker to GFP-mTalin, for which the pollen tube actin cytoskeleton and growth have less tolerance (K. Wilsen, A.Y. Cheung, and P. Hepler, unpublished results). [[FIGURE]] Both GFP-mTalin and GFP-NtADF1 revealed increased levels of actin cables in pollen tubes that coexpressed [FH1+FH2] (Figures 2B, bottom image, and 2C, middle and bottom images). The supernumerary actin cables were especially evident in the apical and subapical regions. Control pollen tubes expressing either of the actin marker proteins never displayed actin cytoskeleton phenotypes like those induced by [FH1+FH2]. The number of actin cables seen in single optical sections of [FH1+FH2]-overexpressing tubes was ∼3 to 5 times to >10 times that observed in control actin marker–expressing pollen tubes (e.g., in tubes similar to those shown in Figures 2C, middle image, and 2B and 2C, bottom images, respectively). Overexpression of [FH1+FH2] also induced growth-related phenotypes in the form of tube broadening, tip expansion, and, ultimately, growth arrest, indicating that regulated formin activity is important for the polar cell growth process. Overexpression of the [FH1+FH2] domains of yeast formins also resulted in defects in polarity, increased levels of actin cables, and growth arrest (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, our observations in pollen tubes suggest that [FH1+FH2] in AFH1 is functionally analogous to its counterparts in yeast formins. Moreover, the FH2 domain alone (Figure 1) was considerably less active than [FH1+FH2] in stimulating actin cable formation (cf. the bottom image in Figure 2D with the middle and bottom images in Figure 2C). This finding suggests that the FH1 domain positively regulates the activity of AFH1, probably via interactions with endogenous profilin, similar to what has been observed for the yeast formins (CITATION; CITATION). An actin cable–inducing activity coupled with cell membrane localization would have significant implications for the biological role of AFH1. To explore this possibility, the coding regions for full-length AFH1, its variable domain–deleted mutant [N+FH1+FH2], and the N-terminal half–deleted [FH1+FH2] (Figure 1) were fused at their C termini with GFP. Transformed pollen tubes expressing AFH1:GFP or [N+FH1+FH2]:GFP fusion proteins showed strong green fluorescence signals along the cell surface (Figures 3A and 3B). By contrast, pollen tubes expressing the N-terminal half–deleted [FH1+FH2]:GFP showed an even distribution of green fluorescence throughout the transformed tube (Figure 3C), consistent with its being a cytosolic protein. Together, these observations indicate that the N-terminal region preceding the variable domain is necessary to target AFH1 to the secretory pathway and localize it to the cell membrane. These GFP fusion proteins were biologically active and induced tube broadening, tip expansion, and other defects (Figures 3C, 3E, and 3F; see below), as did their nontagged counterparts (see below). Moreover, the degree of induced tube broadening correlated with the fluorescence levels in the transformed cells (Figures 3D to 3F), suggesting a correlation between expression levels from the transgenes and the induced pollen tube phenotype. [[FIGURE]] To determine if AFH1 induces actin cables from the cell membrane, AFH1 and the variable domain–deleted [N+FH1+FH2] were overexpressed in pollen tubes. Both Lat52:AFH1 and Lat52:[N+FH1+FH2] induced an abundance of GFP-NtADF1–labeled or GFP-mTalin–labeled actin along the periphery of cotransformed pollen tubes (Figures 4A, 4B, and 4E to 4G, 5D, and 6A to 6C). When images from the entire tube were projected, cytosolic actin cables often were more randomly organized (Figures 4A and 4E, stack; see also Figure 6B, stack) or they were not as evident as in control tubes (Figures 4F, stack, and 4G; see also Figures 6A and 6C, stack), but their presence was evident in single optical sections (see supplemental data online). Serial optical sectioning of pollen tubes cotransformed by the actin marker genes, in particular Lat52:GFP-NtADF1 and Lat52:AFH1 or Lat52:[N+FH1+FH2], revealed striking arrays of punctate actin structures (see the 1- to 5-μm sections in Figure 4A, the 1- to 2.5-μm sections in Figure 4B, and the 2-μm section in Figure 4F). The punctate actin structures in AFH1- or [N+FH1+FH2]-overexpressing pollen tubes were detected first in tangential sections across the lower surface of these tubes (see the 1- and 3.5-μm sections in Figure 4A and the 1-μm section in Figure 4B). They appeared to extend ∼1.5 to 2 μm from the cell membrane, because they faded as imaging approached the internal cytoplasm (e.g., in the 2.5- and 3.5-μm and the 5- and 5.5-μm sections in Figure 4A and the 2.5- and 3-μm sections in Figure 4B). They reappeared as imaging reached the top surface of these tubes (e.g., in the 20-μm section in Figure 4A and the 19.5- and 20-μm sections in Figure 4B). These punctate structures most likely represented actin cables that project from the cell membrane into the cytoplasm, almost perpendicular to the long axis of the tube. In some tubes, the GFP-labeled punctate actin structures remained obvious along the cell periphery even in the median sections (e.g., in the 9- and 12.5-μm sections in Figure 4A, the 8- and 11.5-μm sections in Figure 4B, and the 10.5-μm section in Figure 4F; see also Figures 6A and 6C). In others, short actin cables could be seen from the cell periphery projecting into the cytoplasm in sections that were farther from the tube surface (see the 3- to 6.5-μm sections in Figure 4B and the 3- and 4-μm sections in Figure 4E; see also Figure 5D). Similar tube surface–associated punctate structures were not observed in control pollen tubes expressing only the actin marker proteins (Figure 4D) or along with [FH1+FH2] (Figure 4C). These observations suggest that AFH1 stimulates the assembly of actin filaments from the cell membrane and that its N-terminal extension is necessary to target this protein to the pollen tube cell surface. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] As is evident from the images shown in Figures 2 to 4, a majority of transformed pollen tubes that overexpressed AFH1, its mutant variants, or their GFP-tagged counterparts developed a broader shank (Figure 5B; see also Figures 3E and 3F). Some, especially those in which supernumerary cables were evident, developed a ballooned tip (Figures 2B and 2C, middle and bottom images, and 4A, 4E, and 4F). When individual pollen tubes were examined, those with a broader girth usually were growth retarded relative to control tubes, and those with a ballooned tip were growth arrested. However, cumulative growth over a period of time among populations of pollen tubes transformed by increasing amounts of Lat52:AFH1 revealed that low levels of transgene input actually stimulated growth, especially during the early hours (3 to 5 h) after germination (Figure 5A, left). When pollen tubes were transformed by <1 μg of Lat52:AFH1, the pollen tube morphology and observable actin cytoskeleton structure remained comparable to those in control pollen tubes transformed only by an actin marker gene (Figure 5C) (CITATION). Many of them, especially those cotransformed by 0.25 or 0.5 μg of Lat52:AFH1, were longer than pollen tubes in control cultures (Figure 5A, 4 h of growth). When examined individually, many of them elongated at rates slightly higher than in control tubes (Figure 5C). Pollen tubes transformed by 1 or 1.5 μg of Lat52:AFH1 began to show the growth-inhibitory effect of overexpressed AFH1 (Figures 5A and 5D) toward 4 to 5 h after culturing. Although supernumerary actin cables were not yet evident in most of these tubes, tip membrane–associated actin filaments became prevalent in some (Figure 5D), and these tubes elongated at rates slower than that in control tubes when monitored individually (Figure 5D). In some images, the tip-arisen actin cables were intimately linked to the actin cables in the subapical region (Figure 5D, 60 s; see also supplemental data online). Although some individuals among pollen tubes transformed by 2.5 or 5 μg of Lat52:AFH1 began to show AFH1-induced actin cytoskeleton and morphological defects as early as 4 to 5 h after culturing, the cumulative growth among these transformed tubes was reduced only moderately even over more prolonged culturing times (Figure 5A, 8 h of growth). By 8 h after culturing, most of these tubes had developed supernumerary actin cables, ballooned, and were growth arrested. Therefore, it is likely that growth stimulation by low levels of AFH1 expressed from the input transgene had occurred during the initial hours of growth, possibly even before 2 to 3 h after culturing, when marker gene expression was still too low for the detection of these transformed tubes. Growth then was inhibited during the later hours, when AFH1 levels became too high for normal polar tube growth to continue. AFH1:GFP-expressing pollen tubes often showed uneven edges along the pollen tube apical zone (Figures 3E, 3F, 6D, and 6E), as did many of the transformed pollen tubes overexpressing AFH1 or [N+FH1+FH2] and an actin marker protein (Figures 6A to 6C). The surface undulations seen in AFH1:GFP-expressing tubes, which were not observed in any control pollen tubes (Figure 4D), already suggested cell membrane deformation. To confirm this, GFP-labeled cell membrane proteins (e.g., a pollen receptor kinase, Ntprk:GFP) (CITATION), were coexpressed with unlabeled AFH1 to mark the pollen tube plasmalemma. The normal cell membrane labeling pattern and the tip concentration of green fluorescence (Figure 6F, inset) were obliterated in these tubes. Instead, severe cell surface invaginations occurred, often with large rings observed in tangential sections across the bottom of the tube and uneven edges in midplane images (Figure 6F). In actin marker protein and AFH1- or [N+FH1+FH2]-coexpressing pollen tubes, the accumulation of actin cables was evident along the convoluted cell periphery (Figures 6A to 6C). Only mild membrane deformation was observed, and that very rarely, among pollen tubes overexpressing [FH1+FH2], consistent with membrane-associated actin cable assembly being a contributing factor to the membrane invagination observed in AFH1- and [N+FH1+FH2]-overexpressing tubes.
!~MM~! Oligonucleotide primers to the 5′ and 3′ ends of the coding region of AFH1 (At3g2550) were used in reverse transcriptase–mediated PCR from Arabidopsis thaliana pollen mRNA to obtain the full-length AFH1 cDNA used in this study. The AFH1 promoter (2142 bp upstream of the translational start site) was isolated by PCR from Arabidopsis genomic DNA. PCR-based strategies were used to generate variants of AFH1 and to construct their respective GFP fusion chimeric genes. The pollen promoter Lat52 (CITATION) was used to express all chimeric genes described here, except that the AFH1 promoter was fused with GFP for the analysis of AFH1 promoter activity in pollen. Transient transformation of tobacco pollen by microprojectile bombardment is used commonly in studies examining signaling and cytoskeletal proteins encoded by genes from different plant species, including Arabidopsis (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION, CITATION). Frozen pollen grains (stored at −20°C after isolation from freshly dehisced anthers and 2 h of dehydration at room temperature) were used. Microprojectile bombardment of pollen was performed as described previously (CITATION). The previously described actin marker genes Lat52:GFP-mTalin (CITATION) and Lat52:GFP-NtADF1 (CITATION) were used for actin imaging. In each bombardment, 1 μg of DNA was used to coat the microprojectiles. The amount of Lat52:AFH1 transgene or its variants used in each experiment is indicated in the figure legends. For control pollen used in growth comparison experiments, different amounts of a mock plasmid, Lat52:GUS, were included so that every pollen grain sample was bombarded with microprojectiles that were coated with the same amount of total DNA. Bombarded pollen grains were cultured as described previously (CITATION). Growth-related measurements and imaging were made between 4 and 8 h after plating. The cumulative growth of pollen tubes was determined by measuring a population of transformed pollen tubes in each culture at specific times after the initiation of culturing. Growth rates for individual pollen tubes were monitored over a span of 3 to 5 min between 4 and 6 h after culturing, when fluorescence was detectable and growth in control pollen tubes was still vigorous. Epifluorescence microscopy was performed with a Nikon Eclipse E800 microscope (Tokyo, Japan). Confocal imaging was performed with a Bio-Rad 600 (Richmond, CA) or a Zeiss 510 (Jena, Germany) system at the University of Massachusetts Central Microscopy Facility. Upon request, materials integral to the findings presented in this publication will be made available in a timely manner to all investigators on similar terms for noncommercial research purposes. To obtain materials, please contact A.Y. Cheung, acheung{at}biochem.umass.edu.
