!~ABS~! An extensive analysis of the Arabidopsis thaliana peripheral and integral thylakoid membrane proteome was performed by sequential extractions with salt, detergent, and organic solvents, followed by multidimensional protein separation steps (reverse-phase HPLC and one- and two-dimensional electrophoresis gels), different enzymatic and nonenzymatic protein cleavage techniques, mass spectrometry, and bioinformatics. Altogether, 154 proteins were identified, of which 76 (49%) were α-helical integral membrane proteins. Twenty-seven new proteins without known function but with predicted chloroplast transit peptides were identified, of which 17 (63%) are integral membrane proteins. These new proteins, likely important in thylakoid biogenesis, include two rubredoxins, a potential metallochaperone, and a new DnaJ-like protein. The data were integrated with our analysis of the lumenal-enriched proteome. We identified 83 out of 100 known proteins of the thylakoid localized photosynthetic apparatus, including several new paralogues and some 20 proteins involved in protein insertion, assembly, folding, or proteolysis. An additional 16 proteins are involved in translation, demonstrating that the thylakoid membrane surface is an important site for protein synthesis. The high coverage of the photosynthetic apparatus and the identification of known hydrophobic proteins with low expression levels, such as cpSecE, Ohp1, and Ohp2, indicate an excellent dynamic resolution of the analysis. The sequential extraction process proved very helpful to validate transmembrane prediction. Our data also were cross-correlated to chloroplast subproteome analyses by other laboratories. All data are deposited in a new curated plastid proteome database (PPDB) with multiple search functions (http://cbsusrv01.tc.cornell.edu/users/ppdb/). This PPDB will serve as an expandable resource for the plant community.
!~RES~! The peripheral and integral thylakoid membrane proteomes were extracted into complementary protein populations and separated by 1- or 2-DE gels or by RP-HPLC, as depicted in Figure 1A. Such extensive fractionation was undertaken to adjust methods of protein separation to hydrophobicity and to determine the localization and membrane affinity for each protein. This will aid in the identification of proteins with low relative expression levels, provide information relevant to function, and validate transmembrane (TM) prediction. In addition, we used different strategies to improve the success rate of identification by MS, as discussed in greater detail in Methods. [[FIGURE]] Three complementary subproteomes were generated, including (1) a peripheral-enriched subproteome. Isolated thylakoids from A. thaliana leaves were subjected to Yeda press treatment to remove most soluble lumenal proteins and associated stromal proteins, similarly as in CITATION. The peripheral thylakoid proteins then were extracted from these Yeda press–treated thylakoid vesicles by 0.1 M Na2CO3 under repetitive sonication. This released remaining lumenal proteins as well as proteins that interact tightly with the thylakoid membrane via electrostatic interactions. Extracted proteins were separated on 2-DE denaturing gels with immobilized pH gradient (IPG) strips in the first dimension, followed by Tricine-SDS-PAGE in the second dimension, and were identified by MS (Figures 2A and 2B). (2) A peripheral proteome interacting very tightly with the thylakoid membrane was generated. To further extract proteins that interact very tightly with the membrane but that are typically not integral membrane proteins, the remaining salt-extracted, sonicated thylakoid vesicles were incubated in Triton X-114, followed by two-phase separation. This resulted in an upper detergent-depleted phase and a lower detergent-enriched phase. The upper phase, containing the water-soluble proteins, was collected and the proteins were separated on 2-DE denaturing gels and identified by MS (Figure 2C). The lower phase was discarded. (3) The integral membrane proteome, separated into five fractions, also was generated. Integral membrane proteins were extracted from the Na2CO3-treated thylakoids. After dissolving these treated thylakoid membranes in SDS, the integral membrane proteins were sequentially extracted, first with acetone and then by chloroform/methanol (C/M) mixtures of increasing polarity. This resulted in a total of five fractions (Figure 1B). Acetone also removed interfering chromophores (chlorophylls and carotenoids). These five fractions of hydrophobic proteins were separated by RP-HPLC or by 1-DE Tricine-SDS-PAGE, and proteins identified by MS. [[FIGURE]] Table 1 lists all 154 identified proteins in this study and also indicates in which fraction(s) each protein was identified. As reported in Table 1, we cross-checked these proteins to the data in our previous study on the Yeda press–extracted thylakoid proteome, enriched for the lumenal proteins (CITATION), as well as other studies describing a proteome analysis of the thylakoid lumen (CITATION) and the chloroplast envelope (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION). Details for all of the identified proteins in this and our previous study on the lumen (CITATION) and cross-references (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) are summarized in Table 1 in the supplemental data online. This includes protein names, functional domain prediction (by Pfam-HMM at the conservative cutoff 0.1), AGI locus number, different physical-chemical parameters (length, pI value, and grand average of hydropathy value [GRAVY] index as a measure of hydrophobicity; CITATION) calculated for processed proteins, curated and predicted number of TMs, and localization prediction by a combination of TargetP and LumenP (CITATION) with additional filters. These data also can be extracted from the PPDB. Overview of All 154 Identified Proteins in This Study The purity of the starting material (Yeda press–treated thylakoids) was carefully considered. From our previous extensive MS analysis (CITATION), we concluded that purified thylakoids (on Percoll gradients) have little contamination from nonchloroplast components (e.g., mitochondria, cytosol, and endoplasmic reticulum). Nevertheless, we further improved the purity of the isolated thylakoid by reducing g values for collection of the thylakoids and by slightly altering the Percoll fractionation step. Indeed, very little mitochondrial contamination (only four abundant inner membrane proteins) and a few other (potential) contaminations were found in the analysis in this study (Table 1). Our main concern in this analysis is contamination with envelope proteins because robust criteria are still lacking to distinguish between inner envelope and thylakoid proteins based on amino acid sequence alone. To reduce potential envelope contamination, the thylakoid membranes were washed with a buffer free of Mg2+ to stimulate release of interacting envelopes. Starting material (Yeda press–treated thylakoids) was analyzed by protein gel blots to assess contamination from chloroplast envelopes (Figure 1C). Proteins from intact chloroplasts and Yeda press–treated thylakoid membranes were separated by SDS-PAGE and then transferred to blots and probed with Toc75, a well-known component of the chloroplast envelope membrane (CITATION). A clear signal from Toc75 was visible in the intact chloroplasts but not in the thylakoid fraction. Overexposure showed a very weak band for Toc75 in the thylakoids, which was estimated to be <0.5% of the band in the intact chloroplasts (Figure 1C). In the extensive MS analysis in this article, we did not find any of the well-known components of the protein import apparatus (the Tic and Toc complex; reviewed in CITATION) nor the very abundant triose phosphate translocator of the inner membrane (CITATION) or other known envelope transporters (CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, we concluded that the starting material for the thylakoid proteome analysis contained very little contamination from the chloroplast envelopes. This was not surprising because thylakoid membranes are much more abundant than envelopes and because thylakoids sediment at much lower g values than envelopes. Nevertheless, all of our data were cross-correlated with several published envelope proteome articles (Table 1; Table 1 in the supplemental data online), and we comment on the overlapping identities. Finally, we verified the presence of peripheral proteins in the Na2CO3-treated membranes by protein gel blots with OEC23, a PSII component associated with the lumenal side of the thylakoid membrane. Intact chloroplasts, Yeda press–treated thylakoids, Na2CO3-stripped thylakoids, and the extracted peripheral proteins were probed. This showed that OEC23 levels were below the detection limit in the Na2CO3-treated membranes. This was confirmed by the 2-DE gel of the Triton X-114 population because the OEC23 levels were extremely low (Figure 2C). Figure 2A shows a wide-range pI gradient 2-DE gel (pI 3 to 10) of the Na2CO3-extracted proteome as well as a region of a 6 to 11 pI gel with spot numbers. Figures 2B and 2C show 2-DE gels of the Na2CO3 and Triton X-114 proteomes with spot numbers (separate set of numbers for each fraction) corresponding to entries in Table 1. Experimental pI, molecular weight, and MS data can be found in Tables 2 (Na2CO3) and 3 (Triton X-114) in the supplemental data online and also can be extracted from the PPDB. For more details, see Table 1 in the supplemental data online. The carbonate-extracted proteome map was very much dominated by OEC33, CF1α, and CF1β; together, they represented >60% of the total protein mass of this subproteome (Figures 2A and 2B). Other abundant proteins were OEC23 and OEC16 as well as the smaller members of the CF1 complex (δ,γ, and ε). The Triton X-114–extracted subproteome represented only ∼7% of the total peripheral proteome and was dominated by OEC33 and the family of fibrillins (Figures 2C to 2E). In total, 48 different proteins were identified by a combination of matrix-assisted laser-desorption ionization time of flight (MALDI-TOF) MS and electrospray ionization tandem MS (ESI-MS/MS) (Table 1). Twenty-six proteins were unique for the Na2CO3 maps and nine were unique for the Triton maps, whereas 13 were found in both populations. Comparison of the two maps clearly gives indications for membrane affinity; CF1α, CF1β, and OEC23 were virtually completely removed by the Na2CO3 treatment, whereas OEC33, the fibrillins, and CF1δ could not be completely extracted, indicating very tight membrane interactions. Of these 48 proteins, 30 were identified earlier in the lumenal-enriched maps (CITATION) (Figure 3A), and 19 also were found in another study concerning the lumenal proteome (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] New proteins without known function that are found in the Na2CO3 population but not in the lumenal or Triton fraction (CITATION) are At3g47070, At5g44650, and At1g12250, containing a pentapeptide repeat domain; At5g14910, with a heavy metal binding domain; and At5g44650, with one predicted TM domain but a low GRAVY value (−0.6). Interestingly, At5g14910 also was found in an ∼140-kD stromal complex (J.-B. Peltier and K.J. van Wijk, unpublished data) and will be further evaluated in the Discussion. At3g47070 was just recently reported to be a peripheral thylakoid protein (without known function) that can undergo light-induced phosphorylation (CITATION) and also was found in the analysis of envelopes, possibly as a contaminant (CITATION). Proteins that were unique for the Triton X-114 map and were not on the other 2-DE maps included a novel psbW-like protein (At4g28660), the plastid-specific ribosomal protein (PSRP) PSRP-5 (At3g56910), earlier copurified with chloroplast ribosomes (CITATION), and the Rieske Fe-S protein of the cytochrome b6f complex. The latter cytochrome b6f protein also was found as a contaminant in envelopes (CITATION). In particular, the region around the OEC33 cluster showed that the comigrating family of fibrillins could be much better resolved on the Triton X-114 map than it could on the Na2CO3 map (Figures 2D and 2E). The five organic solvent fractions with thylakoid proteins each were separated on Tricine-PAGE gels with 6 M urea and visualized by staining with silver nitrate or Coomassie blue (Figure 4A). [[FIGURE]] Surprisingly, a set of low molecular weight proteins was extracted with acetone (Figure 4A). The 1-DE gel lane between 3 and 10 kD of the acetone fraction was sliced into five bands and digested with trypsin and chymotrypsin or cleaved by limited acid hydrolysis (CITATION) or CnBr (CITATION) and analyzed by manual nano-ESI-MS/MS. Seven proteins belonging to PSII, PSI, or ATP synthase were identified, including the recently characterized psbZ/ycf9 gene product (CITATION) as well as psbL, psbW, psbX, and psaJ (Figure 4A). Their common denominator is that they are small (<10 kD) and hydrophobic with high GRAVY values (median 0.81) and have one or two TMs (Table 1 in the supplemental data online). Altogether, 237 gel pieces were systematically excised from the four 1-DE gel lanes of the C/M fractions, in-gel digested by trypsin, and the peptides extracted. All of the samples then were analyzed by automated MALDI-TOF MS and on-line LC-ESI-MS/MS. We also analyzed the pooled upper and lower phase of the C/M 9:1 fraction loaded together on a 1-DE Tricine-PAGE gel, selecting only visible protein gel bands for analysis. This extensive MS analysis identified 124 different proteins, 67 of which had one or more known or predicted α-helical TMs (Figure 4A, Table 1). Thus, 54% of the identified proteins were integral membrane proteins, many of them without known function. These new proteins include two rubredoxins, a potential metallochaperone, and a new DnaJ domain protein. One of these rubredoxins (At1g54500) is a homolog of a rubredoxin in Synechococcus sp PCC 7002, which was shown to be involved in the assembly of the interpolypeptide (4Fe-4S) cluster Fx of PSI (CITATION, CITATION). We further review their identities and potential biological functions as well as their membrane affinity in the Discussion. Finally, RP-HPLC of the C/M 1:1 fraction, in combination with pepsin digestion, was explored as an alternative to gel-based separation and trypsin digestion (Figure 4B). The RP-HPLC fractionation pattern was visualized by Tricine-PAGE gels and showed that there was a distinct, sharp, fractionation pattern (data not shown). The chromatograms were reproducible, and a representative chromatogram is shown in Figure 4B. Each fraction was dried down, digested with pepsin, and analyzed by ESI-MS/MS. Twenty-seven proteins were identified with one or more α-helical TMs and five proteins without predicted (by TM-HMM) or known TMs. Some of the proteins have no predicted cTP, and it is not clear if they are truly plastid proteins. The identities of these proteins are briefly evaluated in the Discussion. In summary, the acetone and C/M extraction of stripped thylakoid membranes and subsequent analysis resulted in the identification of 134 different proteins, of which 76 (57%) had one or more TM. This set was very complementary to the 2-DE analysis, resulting in a total of 198 proteins (Figure 3C). Their functions and biological relevance also are evaluated in the Discussion. An early analysis of the sequenced A. thaliana genome (CITATION) showed that only 35% of the predicted proteins are unique in the genome (sequence similarity exceeding a Basic Local Alignment Search Tool [BLASTP] value E < 10−20 and extending over at least 80% of the protein length were used as parameters to identify protein families). When proteins within such families are more than ∼80% identical, careful verification of the MS results becomes important to determine if only one or more than one paralogues are identified. In some cases, peptides are identified that match to more than one paralogue. Uniquely matched peptides (diagnostic peptides) then are needed to determine which protein is expressed. In each Table, we have indicated if more than one paralogue matches the MS results, using an integer to link the paralogues. Examples of such closely related paralogues (80% or higher sequence identity) that were identified in this study include ribosomal proteins L12A and L12C (two paralogues), OEC33 (two paralogues), OEC23 (two closely related paralogues and many distantly related), psaD (two paralogues), psaE (two paralogues), psaH (two paralogues), and the 15 members of the light-harvesting complex of PSII (LHCII) family. In nearly all cases, we were able to determine which paralogue was identified using a unique or diagnostic peptide. This high success rate of paralogue identification was attributable to the very large number of peptides that were sequenced by MS/MS (well over 1000 or so) and the nature of the fractionation. In the case of the LHCII proteins, we uniquely identified 10 out of 14 proteins. Because the processed LHCII-1.1, LHCII-1.2, and LHCII-1.3 are 100% identical, we could not distinguish them. We found many sequence tags for LHCII-2.1, but they also matched to LHCII-2.2 and LHCII-2.4 (Figure 5). Unique sequence tags were found for LHCII-2.2 and LHCII-2.4 (Figure 5). [[FIGURE]] We analyzed several of the physical-chemical properties of the proteins (GRAVY index, length, and pI value) identified in the different organic solvent fractions, with the goal to understand their fractionation behavior and possibly extrapolate experimental parameters to better predict cellular localization and TM prediction. Physical-chemical properties were calculated for processed proteins, based on cleavage site prediction by TargetP (for the cTPs), LumenP (for the lTPs), and additional filtering (O. Emanuelsson, Q. Sun, and K.J. van Wijk, unpublished data). Figure 6A shows a cross-correlation between calculated GRAVY values and number or TM per amino acid for all identified membrane proteins. This illustrates that both parameters positively correlated and shows that the identified membrane proteins range (after removal of the cTP/lTP) from a GRAVY value −0.65 to ∼1.5 and from 1 TM per 500 amino acids to 1 TM per ∼29 amino acids. Figure 6B compares the GRAVY index for the protein population identified in each of the organic solvent fractions identified by 1-DE gels, using a frequency distribution plot. The acetone-extracted proteome clearly separated according to GRAVY index. The proteins in the other organic solvent fractions show very similar GRAVY distributions. [[FIGURE]] Proteins identified in this study and our previous study concerning the thylakoid lumen proteome (CITATION) were deposited into a newly developed database, PPDB. Published data concerning the plastid proteome available from other laboratories will be incorporated and used to curate prediction and experimental data. The experimental data are linked to the latest annotation of the A. thaliana genome, provided by the Institute for Genomic Research (TIGR) (http://www.tigr.org/tdb/e2k1/ath1/), as well as the mitochondrial and plastid genomes. In addition to the deposited experimental information, the database also provides the predicted localization based on a combination of different predictors and filters (TargetP) (CITATION), combined with a new lumenal proteome predictor (LumenP) (CITATION) and additional filters for selection of lumenal proteins derived from an experimental data set (CITATION), as well as by prediction of α-helical TM proteins, using TM-HMM version 2.0 (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TMHMM/). Together, this provides predictions of four chloroplast sublocalizations: stroma, membrane (either inner envelope or thylakoid), lumen, and thylakoid membrane with lTP. In the current release (28,581 genes), we predicted 4255 predicted nuclear-encoded chloroplast proteins, divided into 3387 stromal proteins, 291 lumenal proteins (with 71 TAT motifs), 520 TM proteins, as well as 57 proteins that have a predicted lTP and α-helical TM domains, so-called ambiguous thylakoid proteins. Predicted cleavage sites (cTP and lTP) and biophysical properties, including molecular weight, GRAVY, and pI, are provided for each of the predicted proteins, both for their precursor form as well as for their processed form(s) in the case of plastid proteins. It should be noted that despite filtering for a conserved cleavage in proteins without a TAT motif, the lumenal proteome seems somewhat overpredicted (O. Emanuelsson, Q. Sun, and K.J. van Wijk, unpublished data). A novel Web interface is designed for accessing the PPDB through the World Wide Web. Through this interface, the user can search for information by AGI accession number, functional annotation, and physical properties of all the genes in the PPDB. Details about protein fractionation can be extracted for those proteins that are identified experimentally by our lab. When searching for protein length, molecular weight, and pI, the user can define a range and specify either mature or unprocessed proteins. The display of the search results can be customized by the user. Links to TAIR are provided for each gene.
!~MM~! A. thaliana (Columbia 0) was grown on soil with 10-h-light/14-h-dark periods at 22/19°C (light/dark). Thylakoids were purified from fully developed leaves using a combination of differential and gradient centrifugation steps according to CITATION, but with the following modifications to further improve thylakoid purity: centrifugation speed was reduced to 1850g for 3 min, and Percoll step cushions (20-40-80%) were used instead of linear Percoll gradients. The lumenal-enriched thylakoid proteome was removed by Yeda press to remove the loosely attached stromal proteins as well as the majority of the soluble lumen proteins (CITATION). The remaining thylakoid membranes were resuspended at 1 mg of chlorophyll/mL in ice-cold 0.1 M Na2CO3 supplemented with a cocktail of nine protease inhibitors, as listed by CITATION. The suspension was stirred slowly for 30 min on ice with 15-s sonication steps after 0, 15, and 30 min of stirring. Membranes were removed by centrifugation at 150,000g for 25 min at 4°C. The supernatant was concentrated and desalted in centrifugal filter devices (Centricon, 3-kD cutoff; Millipore, Bedford, MA), followed by a 10-min spin at 200,000g to remove residual membranes. The supernatant then was precipitated in 80% acetone at −20°C. Precipitated proteins were collected by a 10-min centrifugation at 15,000g and resuspended in IPG rehydration buffer for protein determination and 2-DE analysis. The remaining salt-extracted membrane pellets were resuspended in 7.2 mL of ice-cold Tris-buffered saline with the protease inhibitor cocktail, followed by the addition of 1.8 mL of precondensed Triton X-114 (CITATION) to a final concentration of 0.14 mg of chlorophyll/mL. The suspension was homogenized 30 times. The suspension then was spun at 10,000g for 5 min in a cold centrifuge to remove the insoluble fractions, and supernatants were transferred to new tubes, warmed to 37°C for 3 min, and spun for 3 min at 1000g. The upper phase was collected and then mixed with one-fifth volume of Triton X-114, heated for 3 min at 37°C, and spun again for 3 min at 1000g (CITATION). The final upper phase was collected and concentrated and then precipitated in 90% cold (−20°C) acetone. The precipitated proteins were collected by centrifugation and resuspended in IPG rehydration buffer for 2-DE analysis. The average yields of the Na2CO3-extracted peripheral and the Triton X-114–extracted proteome (upper phase) were 344 (sd 86; n = 13) and 24.8 (sd 10.5; n = 6) μg of protein per milligram of chlorophyll, respectively. The peripheral proteomes, resuspended in IPG rehydration buffer, were focused on 18-cm IPG strips (Amersham-Pharmacia Biotech, Uppsala, Sweden) with pI from 3 to 10, 4 to 7, or 6 to 11, principally as described (CITATION, CITATION). After focusing, the IPG strips were reduced and alkylated, and proteins were run out on 20 × 20-cm Tricine-SDS-PAGE gels (12% acryl amide) (CITATION). Gels were fixed and proteins visualized by high-sensitivity silver staining (CITATION), by MS-compatible silver staining (CITATION), by Sypro Ruby (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR), or by Coomassie Brilliant Blue R 250. Gel images were taken either with the Personal Densitometer II (Molecular Dynamics, Sunnyvale, CA) or with the FluorS (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA). Spot annotation of 2-DE gels was performed with the HT analyzer program (Genomic Solutions, Ann Arbor, MI). Thylakoid membrane proteins were extracted from the Na2CO3-stripped thylakoid membranes using organic solvents. Thylakoid membranes (containing 300 mg of chlorophyll) were used as starting material. The pellet containing mostly integral membrane proteins was washed several times in 5 mM MgCl2 and 100 mM Hepes-KOH (pH 8.0) to remove residual Na2CO3. Membranes then were solubilized in Laemmli buffer and heated at 42°C for 5 min. The insolubilized material was removed by a 14,000g spin for 5 min. Proteins in the supernatant were precipitated in nine volumes of cold acetone for 30 min at −20°C and pelleted at 12,000g for 30 min. Acetone in the supernatant then was evaporated, and the remaining liquid was dialyzed (500,000 times dilution) for 48 h and then concentrated. Subsequently, chlorophyll was removed by C/M extraction (see below). The acetone-soluble proteins in the methanol fraction then were dried down for MS analysis. The acetone-precipitated pellet was resuspended in Laemmli solubilization buffer and used for sequential C/M extractions. These extractions were roughly based on CITATION, with a few changes. Each extraction with one specific C/M ratio was performed twice, and the remaining pellet was resuspended in Laemmli buffer, homogenized, and sonicated before the next extraction. C/M ratios of 9:1 and 1:1 were used. The residual C/M 1:9 insoluble pellet was resuspended in Laemmli buffer. The extracted protein fractions and the residual pellet were separated by 1-DE Tricine-PAGE (9 to 15% acryl amide). In parallel to the gel-based separation, the C/M 1:1 extracted proteins were separated by RP-HPLC on an analytical microbore C4 column (Vydac 150 mm, 300 Å, total column volume ∼15 μL; Grave Vydac, Columbia, MD) with 0.1% trifluoroacetic acid in water (solvent A) and 0.1% trifluoroacetic acid in isopropanol/acetonitrile 1:3 (solvent B). The C/M 1:1 fraction was dried out, resuspended in C/M 1:1, spun at 14,000 rpm for 15 min, and 20 or 50 μL supernatant was used for each HPLC run. Proteins were eluted using the following step gradient profile: 30 min at 5% B, 10 min from 5 to 35% B, 90 min from 35 to 75% B, 20 min from 75 to 95% B, and then 20 min at 95% at a flow rate of 50 μL/min. Fractions were collected continuously every 5 min immediately after injection, and the absorbance of each fraction monitored at 280 nm. Each fraction was dried down, dissolved in 70% formic acid, and then diluted by adding 20 volumes of 1 mM HCl. Proteins were digested with pepsin for 2 h at 37°C with a substrate-to-enzyme ratio of ∼1:40, and samples were analyzed by ESI-MS/MS. Protein spots or bands from 1- and 2-DE gels were excised manually or in an automated fashion with a spot picking robot (ProPic; Genomic Solutions). The spots then were washed and digested with modified trypsin (Promega, Madison, WI) (CITATION) or pepsin, and peptides extracted automatically using the ProGest robot (Genomic Solutions). The acetone-soluble proteins were digested with trypsin and chymotrypsin or cleaved by limited acid hydrolysis (CITATION) or CnBr (CITATION). Fractions from off-line RP-HPLC were digested in-solution with pepsin (in 70% formic acid and 1 mM HCl), trypsin (in 8 M urea), or chymotrypsin (in 8 M urea). For tryptic and chymotryptic digestion in-solution, the protein fractions were dried down, dissolved in 8M urea, and then diluted with ammonium bicarbonate to 1.6 M urea and 80 mM ammonium bicarbonate as digestion buffer (CITATION). A substrate:protease ratio of ∼100:1 was used, and the reaction was performed for 12 h at 37°C. Peptides were applied to the MALDI target plates by the dried droplet method using α-cyano-4-hydrocynnamic acid as matrix. The mass spectra were obtained automatically by MALDI-TOF MS in reflectron mode (Voyager-DE-STR; PerSeptive Biosystems, Framingham, MA) and were annotated automatically using the program m/z, as part of Knexus (CITATION) and http://www.genomicsolutions.com/, and internally calibrated using tryptic peptides from autodigestion. The latest versions of the National Center for Biotechnology Information BLAST nonredundant database or Arabidopsis Munich Information Center for Protein Sequences or TIGR databases (downloaded locally) were searched automatically with the resulting peptide mass lists, using the search engine ProFound (CITATION), as part of Knexus (CITATION). For further investigation, the peptides also were analyzed manually with nanoelectrospray needles (Protana, Odense, Denmark) or by nano-LC-ESI-MS/MS in automated mode on a quadruple/orthogonal-acceleration TOF tandem mass spectrometer (Q-TOF; Micromass, Manchester, UK). The spectra were used to search the public databases (downloaded locally) automated via Sonar MS/MS, as part of Knexus (CITATION), or manually via Mascot (www.matrixscience.com). Criteria for positive identification by MALDI-TOF MS peptide mass fingerprinting are five or more matching peptides with a narrow error distribution (clustering of errors) within 25 ppm and at least 15% sequence coverage. In exceptional cases, four matching peptides were considered as positive identification (e.g., proteins <20 kD and matching gel coordinates), along with high sequence coverage. Only peptides that have no missed cleavages (by trypsin) and no modifications, other than Met oxidation and carbamidomethylation (because gel samples were alkylated), were considered. Criteria for positive identification by MS/MS were as follows: if only one or two matching sequence tags were found, nearly complete Y-ion series (in the case of trypsin digest) and partial complementary B-ion series needed to be present in each (as determined by manual inspection), with several diagnostic immonium ions present. Peptide scores in Mascot needed to be >35 and total protein scores (probability-based Mowse score) >37 (when searching only on all A. thaliana gene models), but we never relied on score alone. In the case of three or more matching peptides with peptide scores >35, manual inspection of Y- and B-ion series was not required. Most of the product ions matched within <0.05 D, and precursor ions matched within 1 D. When scoring with Sonar MS/MS, protein scores need to be smaller than E−3, and peptide scores needed to be well separated from the statistical noise (visualized in Sonar MS/MS as [Log]frequency being much lower than [Log]score). Again, peptide matches were manually verified. For our internal database and in Tables 2 and 3 in the supplemental data online, all matches were translated in a confidence level 1 or 2, with level 1 being the most confident. Confidence level 2 was chosen if the identification was close to the minimum matching requirements (e.g., four to six matching peptides in MALDI-TOF) and level 1 was chosen if it was well over these minimal requirements (e.g., >7 matching peptides and high sequence coverage or two or more strong MS/MS sequence tags). Ambiguity number refers to matches to two or more closely related paralogues; these paralogues were linked with the same integer number if it was difficult to distinguish between the paralogues (when peptide sequence(s) or peptide masses were shared by two or more proteins). Examples are proteins in the LHC family. The database engine for PPDB is a Microsoft SQL server. The Web interface for PPDB was developed on ASP.NET platform using C# language. Molecular weight, pI, GRAVY (CITATION), and other biophysical properties were calculated using the Emboss software suite (CITATION). TargetP (CITATION) was used for chloroplast protein prediction and cTP cleavage site prediction, and LumenP was used for predicting lumen proteins (CITATION). Transmembrane domain information was based on predictions by TM-HMM (CITATION). The functional domain prediction was based on Pfam analysis with a cutoff E-value of 0.1 (CITATION). The experimental data in PPDB (including curated gene information) are provided by members of the K.J. van Wijk lab. The experimental data are linked to the latest annotation of the A. thaliana genome (currently release 4.0 of ATH1.pep, with 28,581 nuclear-encoded A. thaliana proteins) provided by TIGR (http://www.tigr.org/tdb/e2k1/ath1/) as well as the mitochondrial and plastid genomes. Chlorophyll concentrations were determined spectrometrically in 80% acetone (CITATION), and protein determinations were performed with the Bradford assay (CITATION) or with bicinchoninic acid (CITATION). Protein gel blot analysis with polyclonal antisera against Toc75 and OEC23 was performed as described earlier (CITATION). Sequence data from this article have been deposited with the EMBL/GenBank data libraries under accession number AL132972.
