!~ABS~! We studied the fine structural organization of nuclear bodies in the root meristem during germination of maize and Arabidopsis thaliana using electron microscopy (EM). Cajal bodies (CBs) were observed in quiescent embryos and germinating cells in both species. The number and distribution of CBs were investigated. To characterize the nuclear splicing domains, immunofluorescence labelling with antibodies against splicing factors (U2B″ and m3G-snRNAs) and in situ hybridisation (with U1/U6 antisense probes) were performed combined with confocal microscopy. Antibodies specific to the Arabidopsis SR splicing factor atRSp31 were produced. AtRSp31 was detected in quiescent nuclei and in germinating cells. This study revealed an unexpected speckled nuclear organization of atRSp31 in root epidermal cells where micro-clusters of interchromatin granules were also observed by EM. Therefore, we examined the distribution of green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged atRSp31 in living cells after Agrobacterium -mediated transient expression. When expressed transiently, atRSp31-GFP exhibited a speckled distribution in leaf cells. Treatments with α-amanitin, okadaic acid, staurosporine or heat shock induced the speckles to reorganize. Furthermore, we generated stable Arabidopsis transgenics expressing atRSp31-GFP. The distribution of the fusion protein was identical to that of endogenous atRSp31. Three-dimensional time-lapse confocal microscopy showed that speckles were highly dynamic domains over time.
!~RES~! The ultrastructure of maize and Arabidopsis root nuclei has been observed at different time points during germination and early seedling development. Comparison of nuclear architecture did not reveal gross structural differences between maize and Arabidopsis. Several aspects of nuclear ultrastructural changes during germination of maize and Sinapis alba have previously been described in detail, except for the nuclear bodies on which we focused our present observations (Deltour et al.CITATION). At each germination time, nuclear bodies were observed in both species (Fig. 1 and not shown). Cajal bodies exhibited a fibrillar texture and were localized either inside a slight depression on the surface of the nucleolus or free in the nucleoplasm, referred to, respectively, as nucleolus-associated CBs (NCBs) and free CBs (FCBs) (Fig. 1). Up to 72 h of germination, CBs appeared mainly associated with the nucleolus while after this period they were most often free within the nucleoplasm (Figs. 1, 2). Both their morphology and localization appeared identical between species. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  In maize, DBs were easily distinguishable from CBs by their structure and smaller diameter. They were very rare in quiescent nuclei but their number progressively increased during germination with the resumption of nuclear activity (Fig. 1). Most often, they have been observed free in the nucleoplasm but were sometimes observed in close association with the nucleolus (Fig. 1). They displayed a dense fibrillar structure forming a compact spherical body, sometimes showing a crown of dense material. Although often seen as single, these bodies were occasionally seen in groups of two or three (Fig. 1F). No dense bodies were observed in Arabidopsis as confirmed by our 3D reconstruction of nuclei (not shown). Their absence in Arabidopsis at any germination time could suggest species-specific functions. Further studies will be needed to identify specific molecules located in DBs and to gain insight into their possible role in nuclear processes. The ribonucleoprotein nature of CBs and DBs was strongly suggested by the persistence of their contrast after an EDTA-regressive staining technique that revealed ribonucleoprotein material around bleached chromatin clumps and individual or small groups of granules in the interchromatin region (Fig. 1G). Nuclear body numbers were analysed in maize meristematic cortical cells of the primary root during germination using EM (Fig. 1H). No important fluctuation of total CBs per nucleus was observed during the first 72 h. However, discrimination between FCBs and NCBs showed a slight increase and decrease, respectively, in their number. These variations were further accentuated after this germination time. Interestingly, the significant decrease of CB frequency was the direct consequence of the decrease in NCB frequency while the FCB frequency significantly increased. The frequency of DBs increased by 20-fold during the first 72 h of germination (from 1.9 to 38.1%). The results of the statistical analysis are shown in Fig. 1. As U2B″ protein is a good marker of CBs in plants (Beven et al.CITATION; Boudonck et al.CITATION,CITATION; Acevedo et al.CITATION; Cui and Moreno Diaz De La EspinaCITATION), its distribution was analysed by immunocytochemistry on both maize and Arabidopsis root meristematic cells by confocal microscopy. The labelling appeared very similar, if not identical, and Fig. 2A shows only the results of U2B″ staining in maize nuclei due to space limitation. In quiescent cells, U2B″ localized as weak punctate nucleoplasmic labelling and a confocal Z-series through nuclei showed that CBs observed by EM were not labelled. At 8 h, interestingly, U2B″ showed a heterogeneous nucleoplasmic distribution and became highly enriched in pre-existing CBs in both species as confirmed by immunoelectron microscopy (Fig. 2B). This latter technique also showed a weak density of particles in the nucleoplasm and no labelling over the nucleolus, cytoplasm or DBs (not shown). Later, U2B″ was dispersed more homogeneously throughout the nucleoplasm and concentrated in at least one fluorescent spot per nucleus (Fig. 2A). The foci associated with the nucleolus were generally larger than the free ones. The distribution of snRNAs observed using anti-m3G snRNA antibodies was similar to the U2B″ protein distribution in both species (Fig. 2A and not shown). One slight difference was a labelling of the CBs in quiescent nuclei. SnRNAs being among the best-characterized plant splicing factors, genes encoding U1 and U6 have been cloned and in situ hybridization was performed with anti-sense RNA probes during germination. Again, U1 and U6 probes showed similar distribution patterns in both maize and Arabidopsis. U1 and U6 could be detected in quiescent nuclei as shown in Fig. 2C. In active cells, the strongest nuclear signal was localized as bright small foci for U1 and a more homogeneous bright interchromatin network for U6. No labelling of nuclear bodies was observed in quiescent and active nuclei. In different controls for immunocytochemical protocols and in situ hybridization, no labelling was seen over nuclei (not shown). To investigate the subcellular distribution of a plant SR splicing factor, rabbit polyclonal antibodies were raised against atRSp31, which is characterized by the presence of one N-terminal RRM and a C-terminal RS domain (Lopato et al.CITATION). The specificity of the affinity-purified antibodies was tested by immunoblot analysis on a protein extract from E. coli and from Arabidopsis plants (Fig. 2D). It showed that immune rabbit serum raised against recombinant atRSp31 specifically recognized His-atRSp31 in the crude extract of E. coli (Fig. 2D). With the protein extract from Arabidopsis plants, this antibody stained a single band at 31 kDa, corresponding to the expected molecular mass of full-length atRSp31. The pre-immune serum from the same rabbits gave no signal (Fig. 2D). Thus, our polyclonal antibody is highly specific to the Arabidopsis atRSp31 factor. Using these antibodies in immunofluorescence confocal microscopy, we analysed the subcellular distribution of atRSp31 in meristematic cortical root cells during the early germination of A. thaliana (Fig. 2E). AtRSp31 was detected as punctate foci in quiescent nuclei. With the onset of nuclear reactivation as early as 8 h after seed imbibition, the foci organization of atRSp31 became less apparent and a more homogeneous distribution was observed in cortical cells of the root meristem (Fig. 2E). However, a speckled distribution of atRSp31 was observed in the nucleoplasm of trichoblasts and atrichoblasts in the elongation and differentiation zones (Fig. 2E). Our anti-atRSp31 sera were tested on maize embryos but no labelling was detected (not shown), showing the high specificity of the anti-atRSp31 antibodies. The overall modifications in the distribution of splicing factors during early germination suggest that the splicing process could slowly and/or sequentially resume. In order to verify such a possible sequential resumption, we looked for intron-containing genes in databases that could be expressed as early as seed imbibition and determined their transcript profile during early germination. We performed RT-PCR analysis with terminal cDNA primers of actin, HAT and cyclin on total RNA extracted from maize root tips. As shown in Fig. 3, PCR of actin yielded two bands corresponding to the sizes of the unspliced pre-mRNA and spliced mRNA (2.201 and 1.128 kb, respectively); PCR of cyclin and HAT yielded single bands of 1.437 kb and 1.404 kb, respectively, corresponding to the sizes of spliced mRNAs. RT-PCR was carried out on different maize varieties and the only difference was the PCR products for HAT and actin appearing as single bands of correctly spliced mRNAs in quiescent embryos (not shown). The observation that unspliced pre-mRNAs and spliced mRNAs coexist in quiescent embryos suggests that transcription and splicing could be dissociable processes in some physiological situations. [[FIGURE]]  The experiments described so far examined the spatial localization of splicing factors by imunocytochemistry on fixed tissues, which did not assess the dynamics of any factor. To examine further the subcellular localization and dynamics of atRSp31 in living plant cells, we generated a translational fusion construct of this splicing factor with GFP linked to the C-terminus of atRSp31 under the control of the CaMV35S promoter. First, we used transient expression to develop a rapid and efficient assay for the in vivo spatial organization of plant SR splicing factors. Fluorescence of GFP-tagged atRSp31 was observed in Arabidopsis and tobacco leaf cells after agroinfiltration-based transient expression. We ensured that agroinfiltration and subsequent fluorescent analysis did not induce cell death or necrosis. Moreover, we did not observe any toxic effects of atRSp31-GFP in transiently overexpressing cells. The Agrobacterium inoculation only induced weak chlorosis in tobacco, which facilitated the identification of the transiently expressing cells. The fluorescence of GFP could be easily detected by epi-fluorescence using an FITC filter block. Many cells were observed to express the fluorescent proteins as early as 24 h after infiltration. The expression level reached an optimum after 48 h and the fluorescence was very stable and could still be detected for at least 5–6 days in both species although the efficiency of the method was always higher in tobacco (not shown). As previously visualized using anti-atRSp31 antibodies and indirect immunofluorescence, the speckled pattern of atRSp31-GFP was clearly apparent in both tobacco and Arabidopsis leaf cells (Fig. 4). To our knowledge, this is the first report of the efficient transient transformation of Arabidopsis leaves after Agrobacterium inoculation. The spatial distribution of free GFP was observed by expressing a binary vector containing only the GFP gene downstream of the CaMV35S promoter. As expected from published data, expression of free GFP produced high and homogeneous fluorescence in both cytoplasm and nucleus due to passive diffusion through nuclear pores (Fig. 4A). No speckled accumulation of GFP in either cytoplasm or nucleus was observed (Fig. 4). Confocal Z-series of tobacco and Arabidopsis nuclei clearly demonstrated a speckled fluorescence organization of atRSp31-GFP in the entire nuclear depth (Fig. 4B). The analysis of GFP fluorescence at different time points after agroinfiltration showed that nuclear speckles appeared as early as fluorescence could be detected (~24 h), suggesting that subnuclear distribution of atRSp31-GFP is relatively independent of its overexpression and overaccumulation. [[FIGURE]]  Inhibition of RNA polymerase II transcription by α-amanitin caused the disappearance of the diffuse fraction of atRSp31-GFP and its redistribution into larger nuclear domains (Fig. 4C). The use of okadaic acid and staurosporine (Ser Thr phosphatase and kinase inhibitors, respectively) on transformed leaves provoked a similar disappearance of the diffuse atRSp31-GFP and its concentration into bigger speckles and around the nucleolus (Fig. 4C). Heat shock treatment, known to disrupt spliceosomal components, led to accumulation of atRSp31-GFP around the nucleolus as well (Fig. 4C). Since a speckled organization of the atRSp31 SR splicing factor occurred after our transient expression experiments (strongly suggesting a functional localization of the fusion protein), we generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants stably expressing the atRSp31::GFP fusion construct, allowing us to compare different cell types and developmental stages. Similar results were obtained with many independent lines (not shown). A low-magnification fluorescence analysis showed a clear nuclear localization of the fusion protein in the whole seedling root (Fig. 5). As already reported (Chytilova et al.CITATION), nuclei within root-hair cells were observed to have a complex non-spherical shape. In meristematic cells, uniform fluorescence was observed with no apparent accumulation of atRSp31-GFP in foci (Fig. 5C). The most impressive speckled distribution of GFP-tagged atRSp31 could be observed in epidermal cells (both atrichoblasts and trichoblasts), similar to what we observed using antibodies (Figs. 5, 6). Interestingly, the analysis of transgenics and of transient transformation demonstrated that overexpression of atRSp31-GFP resulted in its accumulation in speckles in a particular cell or tissue type. We next sought to observe whether overexpressed atRSp31-GFP accumulated in CBs. U2B″ immunostaining in atRSp31GFP-expressing cells displayed a diffuse U2B″ distribution, with additional bright CBs. The nucleoplasmic diffuse labelling of U2B″ and atRSp31-GFP colocalized but U2B″ protein did not accumulate in the speckles (Fig. 5F–H). Next, we legitimately wondered whether the overexpression of atRSp31-GFP under the control of CaMV35S promoter could modify the organization of nuclei. In other words, could overexpressed atRSp31-GFP induce the development/formation of IGCs in plant cells? High-resolution nuclear organization of Arabidopsis transgenics was investigated by EM and compared with that of wild-type seedlings. Observations were made in both meristematic and differentiation zones of the root. No gross changes in overall nuclear ultrastructure were observed between T2/T3 transgenics and wild-type, either in meristematic cells or in the differentiation zone (Fig. 5I–L). Although smaller than in mammalian cells, micro-clusters of IGs were nevertheless observed in trichoblasts (Fig. 5J, L). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  Since the dynamic properties of speckles in plant cells are largely unknown, high-resolution 3D time-lapse imaging of atRSp31-GFP in T2 and T3 seedlings was performed (Fig. 6). Four-dimensional analysis of meristematic nuclei did not show any modification in the fluorescence pattern over a long period (P. Motte, unpublished data). However, in atrichoblasts, the stereo images presented in Fig. 6 show complex movement and shape modification of atRSp31-GFP over a long period. Although the nuclear speckles of atRSp31-GFP remain in relatively stable spatial domains during a time-lapse analysis of more than 90 min, their periphery could display a likely non-random budding and fusing. Rapid movement (a few seconds) of atRSp31-GFP was also visible at the periphery of the speckles (P. Motte, unpublished data). Unfortunately, four-dimensional analysis of root-hair nuclei was difficult to perform because of the rapid and constant movements of nuclei along the cells during laser scanning (P. Motte, unpublished data).
!~MM~! Maize ( Z. mays L. var. Orellana and var. Dione) and A. thaliana (ecotype Columbia) seeds were germinated in Petri dishes and incubated in a controlled temperature chamber in darkness at 16°C (maize) and in continuous illumination at 20°C ( Arabidopsis). For immunocytochemistry, Arabidopsis quiescent embryos were obtained by cutting the seed coats with a scalpel and peeling them off. For transient transformation, A. thaliana and Nicotiana tabacum (cv. Petit Havana) seeds were sown on soil in culture chamber and allowed to germinate and grow under long-day conditions (16 h light/8 h darkphotoperiod) at ~20°C. Healthy Arabidopsis plants with well-developed leaf rosette and 20 cm height tobacco plants were used for Agrobacterium -mediated transient expression. For transcript analysis, tissues were harvested and immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen. Total RNA was extracted using the guanidium method. cDNA for RT-mediated PCR was generated using SuperScript II Reverse Transcriptase (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The primers used for RT-PCR analysis were as follow: for maize actin 1 (Accession no. J01238) (5′-ATGGCTGACGAGGATATCCAGCC-3′) and (5′-GAAGCACTTCATGTGGACAATGCC-3′); for HAT-B-p50 (Accession no. AF171927) (5′-ATGGCGCTCAAGCAGAAGGAC-3′) and (5′-TTGAACCACCAGCTCTGTCATC-3′); for B1-type cyclin (CycZme1, Accession no. U66607) (5′-ATGGAGTGCGCAAGGGAGTTG-3′) and (5′-ACCTGACAACAGCTTCTTGTCAG-3′). The PCR products were visualized on 1.0% agarose gels using a UV light transilluminator. To confirm the RT-PCR specificity, the generated PCR products were subcloned into pGEM-T (Promega) and subsequently sequenced. The coding sequence of atRSp31 (Accession no. X99435) (Lopato et al.CITATION) was amplified by RT-PCR using a 5′ primer (5′-ACATGCATGCGGCCAGTGTTCGTC-3′) and 3′ primer (5′-GAAGATCTAGGTCTTCCTCTTGGGAC-3′) containing Sph I and Bgl II restriction sites (italicised), respectively. To produce polyclonal antibodies against atRSp31, the PCR product was subcloned into the bacterial expression vector pQE70 (Qiagen) and named pQE-atRSp31 for recombinant protein production. The construct was verified by DNA sequencing. The fusion protein containing a C-terminal (His)6 -tag was overexpressed in the Escherichia coli XL1Blue strain and purified according to the manufacturer’s manual using Ni-NTA metal-affinity resin (Qiagen). Three rabbits were immunized with the purified (His)6 -tag atRSp31. In order to test the specificity of the sera, immunoblotting was performed. Plant proteins were extracted in 0.1 M TRIS-HCl, pH 8.3, 0.5 M NaCl, 5 mM dithiothreitol and 5 mM EDTA, containing protease inhibitor (2 mM phenylmethylsulphonyl fluoride). Protein extracts were separated by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and blotted on PVDF membrane (Roche). Immunoblots were successively incubated with protein A purified IgG or affinity purified antibodies (Burke et al.CITATION): anti-atRSp31 at a 1:500 dilution and anti-rabbit IgG conjugated with alkaline phosphatase (Sigma) at a 1:3000 dilution followed by the detection of proteins using 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl phosphate-nitroblue tetrazolium reagents (Roche). For construction of the pBAR35S::atRSp31-GFP plasmid, the atRSp31 and EGFP full-length coding sequences were first PCR amplified using Pfu polymerase (Promega) from pQE-atRSp31 (see above) with the 5′ primer (5′-ATGAGGCCAGTGTTCGTCGGC-3′) and the 3′ primer (5′-GAAGATCTTCCGGAAGGTCTTCCTCTTGG-3′) containing a Bgl II site (italicised) and pEGFP (Clontech; Accession no. U76561) with the 5′ primer (5′-GAAGATCTATGGTGAGCAAGGGCGAGGAG-3′) containing a Bgl II site, and the 3′ primer (5′-TTACTTGTACAGCTCGTCCATGC-3′), respectively. The resulting PCR fragments were digested with Bgl II and ligated. In this construction process, a linker of four amino acids (Ser-Gly-Arg-Ser) was inserted between the atRSp31 and GFP coding sequences. The chimeric gene was then amplified by using Pfu and cloned into the blunt-ended Sma I binary vector pBAR-35S (Accession no. AJ251014, gift from Zs. Schwarz-Sommer, Max Planck Institute, Cologne, Germany), carrying a CaMV35S promoter/terminator. Independent clones were sequenced to detect any mutations due to PCR. This construct and a control containing the EGFP sequence were used for transformation. Transient expression in tobacco and Arabidopsis leaves was performed essentially as described by Batoko et al. (CITATION) using A. tumefaciens strain GV3101 bearing the appropriate binary vector. Transformed plants were then incubated under normal growth conditions as described above and leaf fragments were mounted in water 48–72 h after Agrobacterium infiltration and analysed using laser scanning microscopy. The level of atRSp31-GFP expression under the control of the CaMV35S promoter was remarkably stable and constant among transformed cells. Fragments of transformed leaves were used for drug treatments. Briefly, leaf tissue was submerged in, or floated on, 5 µM α-amanitin (Sigma), 5 µM okadaic acid (Calbiochem), 5 µM staurosporine (Sigma) or water as a control for different times (1, 3, 5 and 7 h). For heat-shock experiments, plants were placed in a culture chamber for 1 h at 42°C and leaf fragments were processed for confocal imaging. Plants were then put back into the original growth chamber. For transformation, Arabidopsis plants were routinely grown in a culture chamber under short-day conditions (8 h light/16 h darkphotoperiod) for 8–9 weeks and were then transferred to long-day conditions. The in planta vacuum infiltration method was performed to obtain germinal transformants (Bechtold and PelletierCITATION). After transformation, plants were grown under the same conditions as prior to transformation. At least 20 plants were transformed and seeds were collected from individual plants. T1 transformants were obtained by selecting seeds for resistance to glufosinate-ammonium (50 µg/ml) (Riedel-de-Haën) on sterile plates. After 10 days of growth, glufosinate-resistant plants were removed from plates to be processed for observation of fluorescence or planted directly into soil at the two-leafstage to obtain T2 and T3 progeny. Plasmid construction, preparation of U1 and U6 probes and whole-mount in situ hybridization were performed as described previously (Beven et al.CITATION; Boudonck et al.CITATION). Controls for in situ hybridization were performed using sense riboprobes or RNase-treated (10 mg/ml RNase A) samples. The spliceosomal factors U2B″ and atRSp31 were immunodetected using the mouse monoclonal 4G3 (Euro-diagnostica) and rabbit protein A purified IgG or affinity purified antibodies (Burke et al.CITATION) anti-atRSp31 at a 1:100 dilution, respectively. For snRNA labelling, formaldehyde-fixed samples were embedded in paraffin by standard procedures and 5 µm deparaffined sections were incubated with the primary mouse monoclonal trimethylguanosine cap antibodies (m3G, Euro-diagnostica). Secondary anti-mouse or anti-rabbit antibodies conjugated to fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC) or AlexaFluor 546 (Molecular Probes) were used. As a control for immunofluorescence, samples were incubated in the presence of either the pre-immune serum or the secondary antibody only. Nuclei were stained with 50 ng/ml 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole. Samples were mounted with an antifade medium and observed with the confocal microscope. The spatial distribution of immunolabelling and GFP fluorescence were examined with a Leica TCS SP2 inverted confocal laser microscope (Leica Microsystems, Germany) equipped with argon and two helium-neon lasers, and an acousto-optical tunable filter (AOTF) for excitation intensity. Digitized images were acquired using a 63×NA 1.5 Plan-Apo water-immersion objective at 1024×1024 pixel resolution. The diameter of the pinhole was always set up equal to the Airy unit. For each nucleus, serial optical sections were recorded with a Z-step of ~0.2 µm. Images were acquired under identical conditions and we ensured that the maximal fluorescence signal was not saturating the PMTs. For four-dimensional imaging, a XYZ multi-image series was defined by Z sectioning and Z series were then acquired manually every 10 min for 90 min. Series of optical sections were either projected as average/maximal projections or as stereo-pair using Leica software (version 2.5). Captured images were exported as TIFF format files and further processed using Adobe Photoshop. For EM, seeds and root fragments were fixed in 2% glutaraldehyde in phosphate buffer, pH 7.4 and subsequently processed for Epon embedding. Ultrathin sections were observed with a Zeiss EM900 electron microscope. For the three-dimensional (3D) reconstructions of Arabidopsis nuclei, serial ultrathin sections were collected on single-slot grids. For quantitative analysis of nuclear bodies, at least three meristems per germination time were evaluated and, per meristem, 160 nuclear sections and 100 nucleolar sections were randomly observed for counting the dense bodies (DBs) and CBs, respectively. The minimal number of sections to be considered was determined for each time point by counting the nuclear bodies in an increasing number of sections until their mean number became stable. The distributions of the numbers of nuclear bodies were compared by the Kruskal-Wallis non-parametric method. All statistical data were processed using Statistica 6.0 (Statsoft). Pre-embedding immunodetection was performed as follow: seeds and root meristems were fixed in 4% formaldehyde, washed in PEM, 0.2% NP40 (50 mM PIPES, KOH, pH 6.9; 5 mM EGTA; 5 mM MgSO4.) and subsequently digested for 2 h with driselase (1%), cellulase (0.5%), pectolyase (0.025%). After washing in PEM, 0.2% NP40, samples were treated with DMSO (0.5%). Cryosections approximately 90 µm thick were made and allowed for a blocking step in PEM, 0.2% NP40, 3% BSA. Sections were successively incubated at 4°C overnight with mouse monoclonal 4G3 antibodies at a dilution of 1:100 and anti-mouse antibodies conjugated to 10 nm gold particles at a 1:100 dilution. Samples were then embedded in Epon for EM observation.
