!~ABS~! Here we report on a lipid‐signalling pathway in plants that is downstream of phosphatidic acid and involves the Arabidopsis protein kinase, AGC2‐1, regulated by the 3′‐phosphoinositide‐dependent kinase‐1 (AtPDK1). AGC2‐1 specifically interacts with AtPDK1 through a conserved C‐terminal hydrophobic motif that leads to its phosphorylation and activation, whereas inhibition of AtPDK1 expression by RNA interference abolishes AGC2‐1 activity. Phosphatidic acid specifically binds to AtPDK1 and stimulates AGC2‐1 in an AtPDK1‐dependent manner. AtPDK1 is ubiquitously expressed in all plant tissues, whereas expression of AGC2‐1 is abundant in fast‐growing organs and dividing cells, and activated during re‐entry of cells into the cell cycle after sugar starvation‐induced G1‐phase arrest. Plant hormones, auxin and cytokinin, synergistically activate the AtPDK1‐regulated AGC2‐1 kinase, indicative of a role in growth and cell division. Cellular localisation of GFP‐AGC2‐1 fusion protein is highly dynamic in root hairs and at some stages confined to root hair tips and to nuclei. The agc2‐1 knockout mutation results in a reduction of root hair length, suggesting a role for AGC2‐1 in root hair growth and development.
!~RES~! To search for potential components of the AtPDK1 signalling pathway, a yeast two‐hybrid screen was carried out using full‐length AtPDK1 as bait and a pACT2 prey cDNA library prepared from cultured Arabidopsis cells (CITATION). By screening 1.2 × 106 transformed yeast colonies, 24 cDNA clones encoding AtPDK1 interacting factors were identified, which were sorted into 11 groups. Two of these prey cDNAs encoded Ser/Thr protein kinases, AGC1‐1 (At5g55910) and AGC2‐1 (At3g25250), that carried conserved domains of the AGC kinase family, which is represented in Arabidopsis by 39 members. In a recent review we follow a nomenclature for the AGC kinase family in Arabidopsis that provides working names for all members but incorporate and keep published names wherever available (http://www.arabidopsis.org/info/genefamily/AGC.html; CITATION). There are two closely related PDK1 genes in Arabidopsis, PDK1‐1 and PDK1‐2, sharing 93% amino‐acid identities. PDK1‐1 is identical to the originally named AtPDK1, the name we use within this paper (CITATION). AGC1‐1 and AGC2‐1 share 38% sequence identity and show a significant similarity (31% identical) to mouse PKA (accession number PO5132) over the entire coding region. Arabidopsis AtPDK1‐1 and its analogue AtPDK1‐2 interacted with AGC1‐1 and AGC2‐1 in yeast two‐hybrid assays (FIG-REF). AGC2‐1 appeared to recognise the AtPDK1 kinase domain, as no interaction could be detected with the PH domain of AtPDK1 (FIG-REF). PDK1 binding to selected AGC kinases in animals, such as to S6K, PKB, aPKC or to SGK, has been shown to require a C‐terminal hydrophobic FXXF motif, called PDK1 interacting fragment (PIF) (CITATION). We generated two modified kinase constructs by exchanging the two conserved phenylalanines to alanine within the FXXF motif (M1), or replacing the last six C‐terminal amino acids with an unrelated sequence, RGSGC (M2) (FIG-REF). Both mutated versions of AGC1‐1 and AGC2‐1 were unable to interact with PDK1 (FIG-REF). These data support the finding that both phenylalanines in the PDK1 interacting fragment (PIF) domain are required for interaction. [[FIGURE]] To determine the enzymatic activity and substrate specificities of AGC1‐1 and AGC2‐1 kinases, we performed in vitro kinase assays with different synthetic peptides known to be phosphorylated by animal AGC kinases (CITATION). Both Arabidopsis AGC kinases were labelled with N‐terminal haemagglutinin (HA) epitope tags, expressed in transfected Arabidopsis cells, and immunopurified for kinase assays 1 day after transfection using immobilised monoclonal anti‐HA IgG. The kemptide peptide, which is readily phosphorylated by animal PKA (CITATION), was found to be the best substrate for both AGC1‐1 and AGC2‐1 (FIG-REF), which showed no significant difference in their substrate preference in these assays. To further characterise the substrate specificity of AGC1‐1 and AGC2‐1, we have used a kinase inhibitor peptide derived from the PKA inhibitor protein PKI, which binds to the catalytic pocket of animal PKA (CITATION). The PKI peptide inhibited similarly the phosphorylation activities of HA‐AGC1‐1 and HA‐AGC2‐1 kinases with all substrate peptides tested (FIG-REF). These results demonstrate that the substrate preferences of AGC1‐1 and AGC2‐1 resemble those of mammalian PKA enzymes. Next, we investigated whether interaction of AGC2‐1 with AtPDK1 requires its hydrophobic PIF domain in vivo and how this interaction affects the enzyme activity of AGC2‐1. For this, we cotransfected a Myc‐tagged AtPDK1 kinase with GST‐tagged AGC2‐1 into protoplasts prepared from cultured Arabidopsis cells and tested for the presence of Myc‐AtPDK1 in GST pull‐down experiments, as compared to the input amounts in crude extracts. Protein kinase activity of AGC2‐1 was determined using the kemptide peptide. These experiments confirmed that Myc‐AtPDK1 is recruited by GST‐AGC2‐1 in vivo (FIG-REF). To answer the question whether the activity of AGC2‐1 kinase is required for interaction with AtPDK1, we performed similar GST pull‐down assays using a modified kinase, GST‐AGC2‐1 (K45R). This inactivated kinase, in which a critical lysine residue required for phosphotransfer was changed to arginine, showed no change in its ability to interact with AtPDK1 (FIG-REF). To test whether the conserved AtPDK1 phosphorylation site on AGC2‐1 at S235 within the activation loop is critical for AGC2‐1 activity or its interaction with AtPDK1, we exchanged this serine residue to alanine (S235A). While the activity of the mutated AGC2‐1 was reduced to background levels, the phosphorylation site mutation had no effect on the AGC2‐1 interaction with AtPDK1. These data showed that phosphorylation of AGC2‐1 within the activation loop, possibly by AtPDK1, is critical for its activity, but not required for AtPDK1 interaction. Contrary to this, a 90–95% reduction in interaction was detected when the critical phenylalanine residues within the PIF (FXXF) domain were mutated (M1) or when the domain was exchanged as indicated in FIG-REF (M2). These mutant forms were also found to be inactive in kinase assays with kemptide as a substrate. These results indicated that either the association of AGC2‐1 with AtPDK1 is required for its activity, or that the mutations within the PIF domain inactivated the kinase, as was previously found for PKA (CITATION). Interestingly, deletion of the C‐terminal hydrophobic motif in PINOID, a representative of AGC1 kinase subgroup in Arabidopsis (CITATION), was observed to yield no change in its biological activity (CITATION). Nonetheless, our results clearly showed that the C‐terminal hydrophobic region of AGC2‐1 is important for interaction with PDK1, and that phosphorylation of AGC2‐1 at the activation site, possibly by AtPDK1, is required for its activity but not for its binding to AtPDK1. To address the question whether AtPDK1 mediates the activation of either AGC1‐1 or AGC2‐1 (or both), the activity of AGC kinases was monitored in cells, in which the expression of AtPDK1 gene was inhibited using RNAi technology. The AtPDK1‐RNAi construct was designed using the inverted hairpin‐loop approach (FIG-REF). The efficiency of RNAi gene silencing was measured with the help of a cotransfected Myc‐tagged AtPDK1 construct, the sequence of which was nearly identical to the endogenously expressed AtPDK1 mRNA. The expression level of Myc‐AtPDK1 reporter construct thus reflected the RNAi‐mediated inhibition of endogeneous AtPDK1 gene. The AtPDK1‐RNAi construct reduced the expression of cotransfected Myc‐AtPDK1 reporter to a nondetectable level (FIG-REF). This RNAi‐directed ablation of AtPDK1 expression did not affect the activity of HA‐AGC1‐1, but reduced the kinase activity of HA‐AGC2‐1 kinase to a background level, which was comparable to the control, where no HA‐AGC kinase was transfected into the cells (FIG-REF). The expression levels of HA‐AGC1‐1 and HA‐AGC2‐1 proteins were, however, not affected by cotransfection of the RNAi construct, as was revealed by immunoblotting with an anti‐HA antibody (FIG-REF). These results showed that the presence of AtPDK1 was required for activation of AGC2‐1, whereas AtPDK1 levels had no affect on AGC1‐1 activity in dividing Arabidopsis cells. [[FIGURE]] Next, we investigated whether AtPDK1 could phosphorylate directly the AGC kinases in vitro. Purified GST‐AGC2‐1 or GST‐AGC1‐1 were incubated with or without the purified Myc‐tagged AtPDK1 in a protein kinase assay (FIG-REF). While AGC1‐1 showed autophosphorylation in the absence of AtPDK1, AGC2‐1 was only phosphorylated when coincubated with AtPDK1, suggesting an absolute requirement for AtPDK1 as upstream activating kinase. We performed coimmunoprecipitation experiments to detect the interaction of endogenous AtPDK1 and AGC2‐1 in vivo in Arabidopsis cells. We have raised antibodies against the AtPDK1 and AGC2‐1 proteins. These anti‐AtPDK1 and anti‐AGC2‐1 antibodies specifically reacted with AtPDK1 and AGC2‐1 proteins, respectively, in Western blot analyses using cell lysates prepared from cultured Arabidopsis cells (FIG-REF, lanes 1 and 2). To detect in vivo association of these protein kinases, AGC2‐1 was immunoprecipitated from Arabidopsis protein extracts using an immobilised polyclonal anti‐AGC2‐1 IgG and then the isolated immunocomplex was probed by Western blotting with an antibody raised against AtPDK1 (FIG-REF, lane 3). A specific band corresponding to AtPDK1 was detected in the AGC2‐1 immunocomplex, which was not present with preimmune serum or with the IgG beads alone (data not shown). This confirmed in vivo the interaction of endogenous AtPDK1 and AGC2‐1 proteins, and is in agreement with the results that we obtained with the yeast two‐hybrid assay and with the GST pull‐down experiments. We have previously observed that the PH domain of AtPDK1 directly binds PI3P and PA (CITATION). To compare binding of PI3P and PA to AtPDK1, we have used so‐called lipid‐affinity matrices, which were prepared by covalent linkage of these lipids to affigel beads (CITATION). As shown in FIG-REF, the PA beads retained considerably more GST‐AtPDK1 than the PI3P beads. The specificity of this assay was confirmed using control lipid‐binding domains of known lipid‐binding specificity. These included the two PI3P‐binding domains, PHOX domain of human p40phox protein (NCF‐4, residues 1–148) (CITATION) and a double FYVE domain from mouse Hrs (residues 147–223) (CITATION), and RPA, which is the PA‐binding region of Raf‐1 kinase (residues 390–426) (CITATION). The FYVE and PHOX domains were retained on the PI3P beads, whereas the RAF‐1 domain specifically bound to PA. Consequently, these results indicated that AtPDK1 preferentially binds PA. [[FIGURE]] Next, we tested whether external addition of various lipids to Arabidopsis cells resulted in altered AtPDK1 activity. First, we had to establish a protein kinase assay for AtPDK1. We found that AtPDK1 was able to phosphorylate directly a synthetic peptide, whose sequence encompasses the PDK1‐docking site fused to the PDK1 phosphorylation site on the activation loop of the animal PKB, termed PIFtide (CITATION). As shown in FIG-REF, the exogenously applied PA very rapidly increased the AtPDK1 activity. Other negatively charged phospholipids, such as PI3P and PI4P, were not able to stimulate the activity of AtPDK1, with the exception of PI(4,5)P2. These results showed that increased PA and PI(4,5)P2 in cells are able to stimulate AtPDK1 activity. Whether this indicates a possible recruitment of AtPDK1 to membranes or other lipid compartments, however, remains to be established. Next, we tested whether the external addition of lipids to Arabidopsis cells could alter the activity of AGC kinases in an AtPDK1‐dependent manner, which would indicate that phospholipid signalling is upstream of these kinases in vivo. As shown in FIG-REF, only PA increased the activity of AGC2‐1, whereas none of the lipids tested could alter the activity of AGC1‐1 (FIG-REF). PA‐mediated activation of AGC2‐1 was transient, showing an increase as early as 1 min. The peak level of AGC2‐1 activity, occurring 10 min after stimulation, was approximately 70% higher than the basal activity measured in untreated dividing cells. When the cells were transfected with the AtPDK1‐RNAi construct, not only was the PA activation abolished but the RNAi inhibition also resulted in a dramatic drop in basal activity, which decayed to background level throughout the time course (FIG-REF). These data showed that both the basal activity attained in cells cultured in hormone‐containing medium and the PA‐mediated induction specifically required the presence of AtPDK1. [[FIGURE]] In animal cells, PA signalling is produced either by the phospholipase C (PLC) pathway in combination with diacylglycerol kinase, or directly via phospholipase D (PLD). The latter pathway can specifically be inhibited by n‐butanol, because PLD preferentially uses it as a trans‐phosphatidylation substrate resulting in the production of phosphatidyl butanol (pBut) at the cost of PA. Therefore, n‐butanol is widely used as a PLD inhibitor in plant and animal systems (CITATION). In our assays, n‐butanol treatment resulted only in a slight decrease of AGC2‐1 activity. Some significance of this finding was suggested by the fact that a closely related compound, sec‐butanol, which is not a substrate for PLD's transphosphatidylation activity (CITATION), had no effect on the activity of AGC2‐1 (FIG-REF). To modify endogenous PA levels and to assay whether PA binding to the PH domain of AtPDK1 can regulate the activity of AGC2‐1, we tested whether we could titrate out the endogenous PA levels by overexpression of two PA‐binding domains fused to GFP, the PH domain of AtPDK1 (AtPDK1‐PH) and the putative PA‐binding domain of AtTOR (TOR‐PA), in Arabidopsis cells. As shown in FIG-REF, the activity of AGC2‐1 kinase was reduced by about 50% 24 h after the expression of AtPDK1‐PH. Following 48 h, the AGC2‐1 activity was, however, reduced only to 87% of control, suggesting the induction of a compensatory mechanism. Overexpression of another PA‐binding domain derived from the Arabidopsis TOR kinase (CITATION) also reduced AGC2‐1 activity, but only by 15% (FIG-REF). Mastoporan is a known activator of heterotrimeric G‐proteins and triggers PA signalling via PLC and PLD activation (CITATION). This raised the question, whether mastoporan treatment could activate AGC2‐1? We found a rapid and transient activation of AGC2‐1 upon Mas7 treatment that was dose and time dependent. No activation was observed with Mas17, an inactive mastoporan analogue (FIG-REF). These data suggested that a G‐protein‐coupled receptor might operate upstream of AGC2‐1. Taken together, these results strongly suggested that phosphatidic acid is involved in the activation of a signalling pathway upstream of AtPDK1 leading to subsequent AtPDK1‐dependent activation of AGC2‐1. Agonists that activate PDK1‐related signalling pathways include growth factors and hormones in animal cells. Therefore, we have tested the ability of plant growth factors, auxin and cytokinin, to act as possible activators of AGC2‐1. HA‐tagged AGC2‐1 was expressed by transfection in Arabidopsis cells and, 1 day later the cells were treated with auxin (napthylacetic acid 1 mg/l) and cytokinin (kinetin 0.2 mg/l). Cells were harvested at different time intervals, and the activity of AGC2‐1 was determined after immunopurification with anti‐HA IgG in kinase assays in vitro. When used separately, both auxin and cytokinin activated HA‐AGC2‐1 approximately 30 min after hormone application, leading to an activity peak about 10 h later. When auxin and cytokinin were added together, a synergistic stimulation of HA‐AGC2‐1 was observed (FIG-REF). The viability of cells 24 h after hormone starvation was confirmed by the inducibility of auxin‐responsive promoters. To assess the tissue distribution of AtPDK1 and AGC2‐1 mRNA expression, Northern blot analyses were performed. The AtPDK1 transcript was detected in all organs examined (FIG-REF). In contrast, steady‐state levels of AGC2‐1 mRNA were maximal in fast‐growing roots and cultured cells, but low in nongrowing, fully developed leaves. This expression pattern of AGC2‐1 resembled that of cyclin D3 in fast‐growing meristems (CITATION). To examine this in more detail, we studied the expression pattern of AGC2‐1 gene in synchronised Arabidopsis cells. When sugar is withdrawn from the medium, a high proportion of cultured Arabidopsis cells is arrested in G1 phase, but re‐enter cell cycle synchronously when sugar is added back (CITATION). As shown in FIG-REF, sugar starvation in our experiments led to a dramatic decrease in the proportion of cells in S phase, but the number of cells in S phase increased again from 6 h onwards after re‐feeding with sugar. In these synchronised cells, AtPDK1 was expressed evenly in all samples (FIG-REF). However, AGC2‐1 expression was strongly induced when sugar was added back to the medium, showing a peak after 4 h, just before the cells entered S phase (FIG-REF). This correlation indicated that pathways controlling cell growth and re‐entry to the cell cycle tightly regulate the expression of AGC2‐1. [[FIGURE]] To dissect the function of AGC2‐1 genetically, we have identified a T‐DNA‐induced knockout mutation. A single insertion was located in the first intron and resulted in full inactivation of the AGC2‐1 gene (Supplementary Figure 1). For phenotypic characterisation of the agc2‐1 mutant, we first focused our attention on the analysis of root development, as in wild‐type plants AGC2‐1 showed a high level of expression in this organ. To ascertain the comparable physiological condition of growing roots, we scored the root and root hair phenotypes in a segregating population of seedlings, which was characterised for the status of homozygosity for the T‐DNA insertion in the AGC2‐1 gene, using PCR. In general, the mutant roots resembled wild‐type roots, and their apical growth rate was also similar to that of the wild type (Table I). However, the length of mature root hairs in the agc2‐1 mutant was only 65% in comparison to the wild type (FIG-REF; Table I). Both the root hair phenotype and the hygromycin resistance showed a 3:1 segregation, confirming that the T‐DNA insert and the phenotype are genetically linked. [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]] To obtain a tool for further study of AGC2‐1 function in root hair development, we have expressed a GFP‐AGC2‐1 green fluorescent reporter protein in wild‐type plants and examined its subcellular localisation. Although these proteins were expressed by the promoter of Cauliflower Mosaic Virus 35S RNA, the pattern of GFP‐AGC2‐1 expression showed an interesting deviation from a control GFP construct driven by the same promoter. The GFP‐AGC2‐1 protein displayed an apparent accumulation in cells of meristematic zones of primary roots (FIG-REF). In root hairs, the localisation of GFP‐AGC2‐1 reporter protein showed a highly dynamic pattern that characteristically changed during development. In immature root hairs (5 mm from the root tip), GFP‐AGC2‐1 was localised on the internal surface of root hairs in association with vesicle‐like structures (FIG-REF). Later, the GFP‐AGC2‐1 signal appeared at the root hair tips (FIG-REF) and during root hair growth accumulated around the root hair apex (FIG-REF). In fully elongated hairs, GFP‐AGC2‐1 also appeared in nuclei positioned at the base of hairs, indicating a developmentally regulated subcellular translocation.
!~MM~! PCR was used to generate the coding sequence of AtPDK1‐1 (accession number At2g01330) using the AtPDK1 clone described previously (CITATION). AGC2‐1, AGC1‐1 and AtPDK1‐2 were prepared by PCR from an Arabidopsis cell suspension library, pACT2CS (CITATION), and cloned into pDONR207 (Invitrogen). C‐terminal mutations of the AGC1‐1 and AGC2‐1 gene (ADFA/ALVA or RGSGC) were produced by incorporating the specific mutations into a 3′ terminal PCR primer followed by PCR of the full‐length gene. Internal site‐specific mutations in the AGC2‐1 gene were carried out using the Gene Editor in vitro site‐directed mutagenesis system (Promega). Details of the vectors and cloning procedures are provided as supplementary data online. Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain AH109 was used to screen an Arabidopsis pACT2 cDNA library (CITATION) with pAS2‐1 bait clones as described previously (CITATION). The resulting colonies were initially assessed for reporter gene activity by nutritional selection (growth on medium lacking leucine, histidine and tryptophan, and containing 5 mM of 3‐amino‐1,2,4‐triazole (3‐AT)). Yeast colonies were then transferred to nitrocellulose filters on SD‐base plates (Clontech) with 2 mM 3‐AT. LacZ activity was determined by filter lift analysis including appropriate positive and negative interaction controls. Arabidopsis cell suspension culture was maintained as described (CITATION). Protoplast isolation and PEG‐mediated transfection were performed according to CITATION. For each transfection, a total of 10 μg of plasmid DNA was transfected into 2 × 105 cells and the cells were cultured for 24 to 48 h before harvesting. Cells were cotransfected with 10 μg of Myc‐AtPDK1 plasmid and 10 μg of GST‐AGC construct. At 36 h after transfection, the cells were lysed in 0.6 ml of lysis buffer (50 mM Tris–HCl pH 7.5, 1 mM EGTA, 1 mM EDTA, 1% (w/v) Triton X‐100, 1 mM sodium orthovanadate, 50 mM sodium fluoride, 5 mM sodium pyrophosphate, 0.27 M sucrose, 1 μM microcystin‐LR, 0.1% (v/v) β‐mercaptoethanol and 1 tablet of protease inhibitor mixture (Sigma) per 50 ml of buffer). The lysates were cleared by centrifugation at 14 000 rpm for 10 min at 4°C, and 0.4 ml of the supernatant was incubated for 2 h at 4°C with 30 μl of glutathione–sepharose. The beads were washed twice in lysis buffer containing 0.5 M NaCl, followed by two further washes in the same buffer. The beads were resuspended in 30 μl of buffer containing 100 mM Tris–HCL pH 6.8, 4% (w/v) SDS, 20% (v/v) glycerol and 200 mM dithiothreitol, and subjected to SDS–polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The gels were analysed by immunoblotting with anti‐HA (clone 3F10; Roche Molecular Biochemicals) or anti‐c‐Myc (clone 9E10, Santa Cruz Biotechnology) primary antibodies using detection by an enhanced chemiluminescence (ECL) system (Pierce, UK Ltd). In all experiments, samples were prepared in triplicate. Cells were lysed by vortexing frozen samples vigorously for 30 s in 100 μl of extraction buffer and the HA‐epitope‐tagged protein kinases were immunoprecipitated as described (CITATION). The synthetic peptides were used as substrates: Kemptide, RRASLG, Crosstide, GRPRTSSFAEG, short p70 substrate, AKRRRLSSLRA, long S6 peptide, KEAKEKRQEQIAKRRRLSSLRASTSKSGGSQK, Lkbtide, KKDRWRSMTVVPYLEDKK, PIFtide (REPRILSEEEQEMFRDFDYIADEC). Peptides were added to the kinase assay at a final concentration of 30 μM. The PKI inhibitor (YADFIASGRTGRRNAI) was tested at a final concentration of 2.5 μM. A typical reaction contained 30 μM synthetic peptide, 50 mM Tris–HCl, 7.5/0.1% β‐mercaptoethanol, 0.1 mM EGTA, 1.0 μM microcysteine, 10 mM magnesium acetate and 100 μM [γ‐32P]ATP (1000 cpm/pmol) (NEN Life Science). The kinase reaction was incubated for 30 min at room temperature. A measure of 18 μl of the mix was transferred to p81 discs (Whatman), and washed four times in 0.5% (v/v) phosphoric acid solution. The washed discs were transferred to vials containing 5 ml of scintillation cocktail, and the activity was measured using a scintillation counter. The AGC2‐1 rabbit polyclonal antibody was raised against the synthetic peptide CPDDGGDKGTDVNTK. The AtPDK1 rabbit polyclonal antibody was raised against GST‐AtPDK1 purified protein extracted from Escherichia coli. The AGC2‐1 antibody was affinity purified using the immobilised peptide, with SulfoLink Coupling Gel (Pierce Biotechnology, Rockford, IL). Purified AGC2‐1 antibody was then immobilised onto protein A gel with the SeizeX Protein A immunoprecipitation kit (Pierce Biotechnology). N‐terminal GST‐tagged proteins were expressed in E. coli using pGEX‐KG constructs (Amersham). RPA is the PA‐binding region of the animal Raf‐1 (residues 390–426) (CITATION), FYVE is a double FYVE domain from mouse Hrs (residues 147–223) (CITATION) and PHOX is the PX domain of human p40phox (NCF‐4, residues 1–148) (CITATION). A measure of 400 ng of purified protein was used in lipid‐binding assays. Proteins were incubated with 6 μl of PI3P beads (9.1% loading) or 3 μl of PA beads (17% loading). Bound protein was eluted from the beads with Laemmli sample buffer, loaded on SDS–PAGE and detected by Western analysis using an anti‐GST antibody (Santa Cruz). Total RNA and blots were prepared from tissues harvested from Arabidopsis var. Columbia ecotype Col O. as described (CITATION). Gene‐specific 3′ untranslated regions of AtPDK1 and AGC2‐1 were generated by PCR. Radiolabelled probes were prepared using ready‐to‐go DNA‐labelling beads [α‐32P]dCTP (Amersham). Arabidopsis cells were synchronised essentially as described (CITATION), except that 18 g of sorbitol was added to the medium when sucrose was omitted to balance the osmotic pressure. After 24 h, cells were resuspended in the original culture medium, samples were removed and snap‐frozen at −80°C every 2 h. Flow cytometry data were obtained using a Partec PAS2 Particle Analysing system (Partec GmbH), using frozen cells without cell wall digestion and chopping as described previously (CITATION). The agc2‐1 mutant was identified in a T‐DNA‐tagged population (CITATION) screened with gene‐ and T‐DNA‐specific primers. The insertion was placed in the first intron where it totally disrupts the gene. However, Southern analysis showed the presence of other T‐DNAs in this line. Plants carrying the insertion were then selfed and crossed to wild‐type plants in order to remove the extra T‐DNA copies. Root hairs were imaged using a Nikon SMZ1500. Root apical growth and root hair length were determined as described previously (CITATION). Roots from homozygote GFP‐AGC2‐1‐expressing lines were mounted in water and examined using a Bio‐Rad Radiance 2100 laser confocal microscope. The images were processed with Adobe Photoshop 5 software (Mountain View, CA). Supplementary data are available at The EMBO Journal Online.
