!~ABS~! The yeast and human mitochondrial sulfhydryl oxidases of the Erv1/Alr family have been shown to be essential for the biogenesis of mitochondria and the cytosolic iron sulfur cluster assembly. In this study we identified a likely candidate for the first mitochondrial flavin-linked sulfhydryl oxidase of the Erv1-type from a photosynthetic organism. The central core of the plant enzyme (AtErv1) exhibits all of the characteristic features of the Erv1/Alr protein family, including a redox-active YPCXXC motif, noncovalently bound FAD, and sulfhydryl oxidase activity. Transient expression of fusion proteins of AtErv1 and the green fluorescence protein in plant protoplasts showed that the plant enzyme preferentially localizes to the mitochondria. Yet AtErv1 has several unique features, such as the presence of a CXXXXC motif in its carboxyl-terminal domain and the absence of an amino-terminally localized cysteine pair common to yeast and human Erv1/Alr proteins. In addition, the dimerization of AtErv1 is not mediated by its amino terminus but by its unique CXXXXC motif. In vitro assays with purified protein and artificial substrates demonstrate a preference of AtErv1 for dithiols with a defined space between the thiol groups, suggesting a thioredoxin-like substrate. 
!~RES~! Cloning of the Plant cDNA for AtERV1—The first aim was to identify putative Erv1 homologues in higher plants. Screening of Arabidopsis sequence data bases with the yeast Erv1 protein sequence identified only one nuclear gene as a possible candidate. The most reliable sequence data were used to synthesize primers for the putative full-length cDNA. These primers (Table III) were included in PCR experiments with an Arabidopsis cDNA library (Clontech). DNA fragments of about 600 bp were amplified. Three independent clones were isolated and subjected to DNA sequencing. All three DNA inserts exhibited identical DNA sequences. The cDNA (AtErv1) contained an open reading frame with the capacity to encode a protein of 191 amino acids (EMBL accession number AJ551263). The comparison of the putative plant protein with yeast Erv2p and yeast and human Erv1p/Alrp is shown in Fig. 1. The central domain with the catalytic core is highly conserved, whereas the amino- and carboxyl-terminal regions reveal unique features.   [[FIGURE]] Unique CXXXXC Motif and Highly Conserved Central Core— Comparing the sequences of yeast, human, and plant sulfhydryl oxidases identifies a carboxyl-terminal CXXXXC motif as a unique feature of AtErv1 (Fig. 1). Close inspection of the available data bases from the genome sequencing projects of higher plants identified several Erv1 homologues. Notably, a carboxylterminal cysteine pair separated by exactly four amino acids is present in all putative plant Erv1 homologues from dicots and monocots identified thus far (Fig. 2), arguing for the functional importance of the new CXXXXC motif in Erv1 from higher plants.   [[FIGURE]] In contrast, the highly conserved central core exhibits all features typical to members of the Erv1/Alr protein family. The available structural data (12) from the conserved central domain of yeast Erv2p (30, 31), the first crystallized member of the Erv1/Alr protein family (Protein Data Bank accession number 1JR8), allowed the comparative modeling of AtErv1. The modeled structure of the conserved core from amino acids 76 to 176 of plant AtErv1 is presented in Fig. 3. A four-helix bundle forms the putative FAD-binding site, and the conserved catalytic cysteine pair, YPCXXC, is in close proximity to the isoalloxazine ring. A structural disulfide bridge between a second cysteine pair that is separated by exactly 16 amino acids in Erv1p, Alrp, and Erv2p is also predicted for AtErv1. This disulfide bridge fixes the short fifth α-helix against the four helix-bundle and is important for stabilizing the FAD-binding pocket (12, 14).   [[FIGURE]] Expression and Characterization of Recombinant Plant AtErv1—To define the functional characteristics of plant AtErv1 two recombinant proteins with a His6 tag were synthesized in E. coli. The putative full-length protein of 22 kDa and the carboxyl-terminal domain of 15 kDa were successfully expressed. Analysis of the proteins on nonreducing SDS-PAGE demonstrated that both fragments form dimers and multimers (Fig. 4A), indicating that in contrast to the yeast protein, the amino terminus of AtErv1 does not participate in dimerization. Although the cause of multimerization of AtErv1 is yet unknown, it is not unique, because it is typically observed for all Erv1/Alr proteins. In vitro experiments show that multimerization of all these proteins is dependent on the concentration and the number of cysteine residues in mutant proteins (14). For the 22-kDa protein, degradation products were routinely found, indicating increased instability of this gene product. The 15-kDa fragment did not show any prominent degradation products. Therefore further characterization of AtErv1 was performed with the 15-kDa fragment that contained both the redox-active YPCXXC motif and the FAD-binding domain.   [[FIGURE]] The disappearance of AtErv1 dimers upon reduction with dithiothreitol (Fig. 4A) indicated that as in Erv1p and Erv2p dimerization of AtErv1 is mediated by an intermolecular disulfide bridge. The conservation of the carboxyl-terminal CXXXXC motif in all plant homologues of AtErv1 suggested that it functionally replaced the amino-terminal cysteine pair of Erv1p. To determine whether the CXXXXC motif participates in an interdisulfide bridge, two mutant forms of AtErv1, one lacking the carboxyl-terminal member of the cysteine pair and a second missing the entire CXXXXC motif, were produced and purified from E. coli. The disappearance of dimer formation in the mutant form lacking the plant conserved carboxyl-terminal cysteine pair and the increased dimer and multimers formation in the single cysteine mutant protein (Fig. 4B) strongly argue for the functional replacement of the amino-terminal cysteine pair of Erv1p by the carboxyl-terminal CXXXXC motif in AtErv1.  The presence of FAD in the purified protein was verified by spectroscopy (Fig. 5). The spectrum of the 15-kDa fragment exhibited the characteristic features of a protein-bound FAD moiety. Assays for enzymatic activity using artificial in vitro substrates demonstrated sulfhydryl activities (Fig. 6) with turnover numbers comparable with those reported for the yeast mitochondrial enzyme (1, 2). Like the yeast protein, the plant enzyme did not use mercaptoethanol or glutathione as a substrate. Notably, AtErv1 exhibited a high preference for dithiol reductants and particularly for thioredoxin.   [[FIGURE]]  [[FIGURE]] Complementation Studies between Yeast erv-ts, Δerv1, and the Plant Enzyme—The available mutants of yeast Erv1p (16) allowed in vivo complementation studies with plant Erv1p. For this purpose, the full-length cDNA for AtERV1 was cloned into a yeast expression vector. Neither the erv1-ts mutant nor the deletion mutant could be rescued by the plant enzyme (Fig. 7). To exclude any defects in the import of the plant enzyme into yeast mitochondria, a new set of experiments was initiated where the yeast import sequence from Cytb2 was fused to the amino terminus of AtErv1. This fusion protein also gave no detectable complementation activity in vivo. The presence of the His6 tag, which had been shown previously not to obstruct complementation with the yeast Erv1p or human Alrp proteins, allowed us to readily confirm that the fusion protein is correctly expressed in yeast and imported into mitochondria (data not shown). Thus, despite their sequence similarities, the yeast and plant homologues are also functionally distinct.   [[FIGURE]] Localization Experiments in Plant Cells with Fusion Proteins of GFP and AtErv1—Analysis of the AtErv1 sequence with the current computer programs for predicting subcellular localization (MitoProt II, Predotar, PSORT II, SignalP) identified no typical import sequence for mitochondria and even predicted a possible plastid localization (data not shown). Therefore, it was essential to confirm the subcellular localization of this protein in vivo. Two constructs of GFP fused either to the carboxyl terminus (AtErv1-GFP) or the amino terminus of AtErv1 (GFP-AtErv1) were transiently expressed in plant protoplasts from Arabidopsis or Physcomitrella. Confocal fluorescence microscopy of protoplasts expressing the AtErv1-GFP construct revealed the accumulation of GFP in distinct, somewhat spherical, bodies localized outside the chloroplasts in both plants (Fig. 8). Staining the protoplasts expressing the AtErv1-GFP construct with the mitochondria-specific dye, MitoTracker, showed that the GFP fluorescence colocalized with the mitochondria. In contrast, the fluorescence of the reverse orientation GFP-AtErv1 fusion proteins appeared diffuse and outside the mitochondria and chloroplasts (Fig. 8), suggesting that the amino-terminal leader of AtErv1 is required for efficient targeting to the mitochondria.   [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Strains and Plasmids—Escherichia coli strains used included DH5-α for cloning experiments (15) and BL21 for expression of recombinant His6-tagged proteins (Novagen). The yeast strains and their genetic markers are listed in Table I. The bacterial and yeast plasmids and vector constructs are listed in Table II.   [[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] PCR and DNA Cloning—The plant AtERV1 cDNA was amplified by standard protocols (21) using the a polymerase kit (Fermentas), a cDNA library from A. thaliana (Clontech library FL4000AB), and the primers listed in Table III. The restriction sites NdeI and XhoI were used for inserting PCR fragments into the hexahistidyl tag vector pET-24a(+) (Novagen). Primers with EcoRV sites allowed cloning of the PCR products, either with or without a His6 carboxyl-terminal extention, into yeast expression vectors. EcoRV/KpnI fragments were inserted into pBSC-preCytb2. After fusion with preCytb2, the open reading frame was excised as a BamHI/KpnI fragment and inserted into the compatible sites of vector YEp352-ADH (3). SmaI/EcoRV or SmaI/BamHI fragments were inserted into GFP vectors as listed in Tables II and III.   [[TABLE]] Purification of the Plant Erv1p-His6 Proteins from E. coli—The two PCR constructs encoding the full-length protein (22 kDa) and a carboxyl-terminal fragment (15 kDa) of AtErv1 were expressed in E. coli strain BL21 (Clontech). The presence of the hexahistidyl tag at the carboxyl terminus of the proteins allowed rapid purification on nickelagarose under native conditions in NaCl/phosphate buffer (50 mm NaCl, 50 mm KH2PO4, 10 mm imidazole, pH 7.5) (Qiagen) (1, 22). The proteins were bound to nickel-agarose and eluted with 50 mm NaCl, 50 mm KH2PO4, 300 mm imidazole, pH 7.5. Purification to homogeneity was verified by SDS-polyacrylamide gels and by antibody tests of Western blots. Finally, the proteins were dialyzed against 50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 8.0.  Spectroscopy of Plant Erv1p-His6—The isolated 15-kDa protein following nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid chromatography was used for spectroscopy. The visible spectrum of this protein solution was recorded with the UV-visible spectrometer Lambda 25 (Perkin Elmer). A reference of purified FAD (Sigma) was measured under identical conditions.  Enzymatic Assay for Sulfhydryl Oxidase—Purified plant AtErv1 15-kDa protein (corresponding to 10 pmol of bound FAD/reaction) was incubated in 0.1 ml of phosphate-buffered saline buffer (68 mm NaCl, 75 mm potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7.5 containing 3 mm EDTA) together with reduced substrates corresponding to 50 nmol of reduced thiol groups. All of the reactions were carried out at 25 °C. Aliquots of 100 μl were used for each time point. For determination of the thiol content, the 0.1-ml samples were diluted with 800 μl of phosphate-buffered saline buffer, and then 100 μl of 5,5′-dithiobis(nitrobenzoic acid) (Ellman′s reagent) (23, 24) was added to a final concentration of 10 μm. After 2 min, the extinction at 412 nm was measured, and the thiol content was calculated using an extinction coefficient of 14 mm-1 × cm-1 (24). The initial content of thiol groups was determined from a sample without enzyme. Artificial in vitro substrates including cysteine, glutathione, dithiothreitol, β-mercaptoethanol, and di-mercaptoethanol were purchased in the reduced form. Recombinant purified bacterial thioredoxin (Calbiochem) from E. coli was reduced with an excess of dithiothreitol in phosphate-buffered saline and purified on a Sephadex G-25 column (for further details see Refs. 1 and 22).  Western Analysis—Non reducing SDS-PAGE (gradient gels of 4–12%) (Novex/Invitrogen) was used to separate 200-ng aliquots of 15- and 22-kDa AtErv1. The protein samples were run with or without 20 mm dithiothreitol, as indicated. Membrane-bound proteins were probed with anti-His5 Ig (Qiagen). Bound antibodies were detected by alkaline phosphatase-conjugated secondary antibodies and chemiluminescence.  Structural Modeling—Partial structural information of yeast Erv2p is available in the Protein Data Bank (accession number 1JR8). The crystallized protein is a 119-residue proteolytic fragment of Erv2p that contains the highly conserved carboxyl-terminal domain with FAD-binding site and redox-active CXXC (12). This fragment was aligned without gaps with the conserved domain of AtErv1 (residues 76–191). The software package INSIGHT II (www.accelrys.com/insight/index.html) was used to develop the molecular model. Graphical modifications and data files were generated with the Visual Molecular Dynamics Program (25).  Plants Growth, Protoplast Transformation, and Fluorescence Microscopy—Arabidopsis protoplasts were isolated and transfected as described in Ref. 26. Typically, 2 × 104 protoplasts were transfected with 20 μg of plasmid DNA. Physcomitrella patens was grown on solid minimal NH4 medium (27) at 25 °C under a 16/8-h light/dark cycle. The protoplasts were isolated from 5–6-day-old protonemal cultures according to Ref. 20. For transformation of P. patens, 10 μg of plasmid DNA was added to 300 μl of a protoplast suspension. Following gentle mixing, 300 μl of solution containing 40% polyethylene glycol, 0.1 m CaNO3, 0.38 m mannitol, and 10 mm Tris-HCl, (pH 8.0) was added, and the suspension was incubated with occasional mixing for 5 min at 45 °C and for 10 min at room temperature. The protoplast suspension was diluted to a final volume of 7.1 ml with liquid NH4 medium supplemented with 6.8% mannitol and incubated for 16 h in the dark.  The fluorescence images were taken 24 h after transformation using a laser confocal microscope (Olympus Fluoview FV500). The images were obtained using an excitation wavelength of 488 nm, with GFP and chlorophyll images collected through 505–525- and 630-nm filters, respectively. Mitochondria were visualized using the mitochondrial-specific dye MitoTracker (Molecular Probes), with excitation of 543, dichromic mirror of 545, and emission long pass of 560 nm.  Miscellaneous Methods—E. coli strains DH5-α (15) and BL21 (Clontech) were used for cloning experiments and amplification of plasmid DNA. Plasmid DNA was isolated from E. coli by alkaline lysis (Qiagen kit). Transformation of yeast cells was done with lithium acetate according to a standard protocol (28). Purification, restriction enzyme digestion, ligation, and analysis of yeast DNA or PCR products on agarose gels were performed using standard techniques (29). Nucleotide sequences of the DNA constructs were determined by automatic DNA sequencing (SeqLab Company, Göttingen, Germany). 
