!~ABS~! Background: Chloroplasts are plant cell organelles of cyanobacterial origin. They perform essential metabolic and biosynthetic functions of global significance, including photosynthesis and amino acid biosynthesis. Most of the proteins that constitute the functional chloroplast are encoded in the nuclear genome and imported into the chloroplast after translation in the cytosol. Since protein targeting is difficult to predict, many nuclear-encoded plastid proteins are still to be discovered. Results: By tandem mass spectrometry, we identified 690 different proteins from purified Arabidopsis chloroplasts. Most proteins could be assigned to known protein complexes and metabolic pathways, but more than 30% of the proteins have unknown functions, and many are not predicted to localize to the chloroplast. Novel structure and function prediction methods provided more informative annotations for proteins of unknown functions. While near-complete protein coverage was accomplished for key chloroplast pathways such as carbon fixation and photosynthesis, fewer proteins were identified from pathways that are downregulated in the light. Parallel RNA profiling revealed a pathway-dependent correlation between transcript and relative protein abundance, suggesting gene regulation at different levels. Conclusions: The chloroplast proteome contains many proteins that are of unknown function and not predicted to localize to the chloroplast. Expression of nuclear-encoded chloroplast genes is regulated at multiple levels in a pathway-dependent context. The combined shotgun proteomics and RNA profiling approach is of high potential value to predict metabolic pathway prevalence and to define regulatory levels of gene expression on a pathway scale.
!~RES~! We used purified chloroplasts (for details see Supplemental Experimental Procedures) for two different protein fractionation strategies based on multidimensional chromatography (MDC) of proteins and peptides (strategy one) and enrichment of envelope membrane proteins (strategy two) because envelope and thylakoid membrane proteins cannot be separated by MDC (Figure S1). Altogether, 690 proteins were identified with high confidence. The MDC approach allowed the exclusive identification of 409 proteins, and 148 proteins were exclusively identified from the envelope fraction, while 133 proteins were identified by both fractionation procedures ( CITATION lists all identified proteins). We have compiled all relevant information on the 690 identified proteins into a database that is available at http://www.pb.ipw.biol.ethz.ch/proteomics/ . We determined to which extent TargetP CITATION ( http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/ ) predicted the chloroplast localization of the identified proteins. Since most of the proteins from the outer envelope membrane do not contain a transit peptide, we separately analyzed the TargetP prediction of nuclear-encoded proteins for the proteins identified by the two fractionation strategies excluding all putative contaminants (a list of proteins that are known abundant proteins in other cell organelles and thus potentially not of chloroplast origin is provided in Table S2A; these proteins were excluded from all subsequent analyses). TargetP predicted a chloroplast localization of only 58 of the 137 envelope proteins, while 9 proteins were predicted to localize to mitochondria, 25 to the secretory pathway, and 39 to “any other location” CITATION . In contrast, TargetP correctly predicted the chloroplast localization of 318 of the 499 proteins identified by the MDC approach. Only 28 proteins were predicted to localize to mitochondria, 24 to the secretory pathway, and 103 to any other location. Considering TargetP specificity and sensitivity CITATION , it is likely that the prediction for different subcellular localizations results from incorrect negative predictions of true chloroplast proteins. We cannot exclude, however, that these proteins are targeted to more than one organelle. Dual targeting has been described for several proteins (reviewed in CITATION ), and there is currently no evidence that the published list is exhaustive. In this context it is interesting to note that proteins with homology to components of the mitochondrial protein import machinery (TIM and TOM) have been identified from chloroplast envelope membranes CITATION . Although we cannot completely rule out that some incorrect negative predictions of true chloroplast proteins are due to misannotated N termini, these findings suggest that organellar protein import and protein trafficking are more complex than previously anticipated. It is also possible that some of the proteins not predicted by TargetP to localize to the chloroplast were from other cell organelles and not removed during chloroplast isolation and purification. Most of these proteins are ribosomal proteins and were found in the preparation of outer envelope proteins. The envelope membrane is in close contact with other cell organelles (e.g., during photorespiration CITATION ) and the cytosol, and the interaction of the identified cytosolic proteins with the surface of the chloroplast envelope might be of biological relevance. Additional experiments and functional analyses are now required to substantiate the envelope association of the identified proteins and the biological relevance of potential interactions. For the subsequent analyses, we therefore focused our efforts on the proteins identified from the MDC approach. Recent proteome analyses with Arabidopsis mitochondria and peroxisomes identified the most abundant proteins of these organelles, which provided a reference to assess the level of potential cross contamination CITATION . Based on these studies, we predict that two proteins in our MDC proteome analysis are more likely to be of peroxisomal origin, and five are more likely to be of mitochondrial origin (Table S2B). This indicates that a potential crosscontamination with proteins from these organelles is approximately 1% or less. We performed RNA profiling analyses by using the Arabidopsis ATH1 GeneChip (Affymetrix, Santa Clara) to determine if a correlation exists between the chloroplast proteins identified by MS/MS and their expression levels. The analysis of RNA samples from leaves of the same developmental stage revealed that approximately 65% of the identified proteins were also highly expressed at the RNA level (>1000 arbitrary units) CITATION . Considering the specialized function of the chloroplast and the dynamic range of the proteins in the chloroplast proteome, this correlation between RNA levels and shotgun MS/MS protein identification provides a useful estimate of protein abundance CITATION . Based on this correlation, we compared the distribution of TargetP-predicted chloroplast proteins and nonpredicted proteins among the five categories of RNA expression levels shown in CITATION . As expected, we found a significantly higher proportion of proteins with a chloroplast signal peptide in the two categories of highest RNA expression levels. Proteins without a canonical transit peptide were also found in the categories of lower RNA expression levels. Since contaminations typically result from abundant proteins that are also expressed highly at the RNA level, it is therefore unlikely that our identification of chloroplast proteins without a canonical transit peptide resulted from a systematic contamination of the chloroplast protein fractions with abundant proteins from other cell compartments. It is broadly accepted that during evolution genes were transferred from the cyanobacterial endosymbiont to the nucleus of the eukaryotic progenitor cells. Our proteomics data should indicate how many of these genes may encode proteins that are now transported into the chloroplast without a canonical transit peptide. We therefore searched the cyanobacterial ( Synechocystis sp . strain PCC6803) and Saccharomyces cerevisiae genomes (NCBI GenBank) for the identified chloroplast proteins that lack a plastid-targeting signal (excluding plastid-encoded proteins and proteins listed in Table S2A) to identify those proteins that have a homolog in cyanobacteria, but not in yeast CITATION . The BLAST homology searches of cyanobacterial and yeast genomes by using both conservative and more permissive thresholds (E-value cutoff of e-10 and e-4, respectively) show a significantly larger fraction of these nonpredicted proteins to have a homolog in cyanobacteria, but not in yeast, than is typical of Arabidopsis proteins as a whole (7.4% versus 4.3% at cutoff e-4 and 7.4% versus 3.7% at cutoff e-10; see CITATION ) . This result strongly suggests that the identified proteins are of cyanobacterial origin and imported into chloroplasts without a canonical transit peptide. We assigned the identified proteins to known chloroplast metabolic and regulatory pathways ( http://mips.gsf.de/proj/thal ) based on established functional categories (Tables S3–S5). Most of the proteins with known function were found in the categories “metabolism” (173) and “energy” (130), which include proteins with functions in amino acid metabolism, carbohydrate metabolism, and photosynthesis (Table S4). This reflects the main function of the chloroplast in cellular energy metabolism and is consistent with known chloroplast metabolic activities. We next classified the proteins that were identified from the MDC approach and were not predicted to localize to the chloroplast by their enzymatic function CITATION . As expected, the functional profiles of predicted and nonpredicted chloroplast proteins were similar. The majority of the proteins not predicted to localize to the chloroplast were of unknown function CITATION . These data also allowed us to establish the chloroplast localization of an essential step in purine biosynthesis. We identified phosphoribosylformylglycinamidine synthase (At1g74260), which is predicted to localize to mitochondria (reliability class 3) in the chloroplast proteome. Phosphoribosylformylglycinamidine synthase is one of three enzymes that catalyze the conversion of glycinamide ribonucleotide to aminoimidazole ribotide. The two other enzymes are predicted to localize to the chloroplast, which strongly argues that these steps in purine biosynthesis occur in plastids. Moreover, phosphoribosylformylglycinamidine synthase was also consistently found in BY-2 plastids (S.B., A. Siddique, and W.G., unpublished data). The significant number of proteins with unknown function makes it difficult to assign novel metabolic activities to the chloroplast. We therefore applied structure- and function-prediction methods to develop more informative annotations for proteins of unclassified function CITATION . Of the 141 proteins in this set annotated as expressed, hypothetical, or unknown, we were able to predict a molecular function and/or 3D structure for at least one domain for 59 (or 42%) by using the bioinformatics approaches described in the Supplemental Experimental Procedures. We illustrate these predictions for four representative sequences: At3g14590, At5g62620, At3g23700, and At5g02180. Analysis of At3g14590 suggested a potential N-terminal transmembrane domain, followed by two copies of a calcium binding domain (C2; the second domain appears to be truncated and possibly degenerate). At5g62620 has two different domains with related functions, a galectin-3 carbohydrate recognition domain (CRD) near the N terminus, and a C-terminal domain from the galactosyltransferase family. The third example, At3g23700, has four copies of the S1 RNA binding domain. Analysis of At5g02180, which was identified in the membrane fraction, revealed seven putative transmembrane helices. The automatically derived MIPS classification predicted this protein to be an amino acid transporter, which we could confirm by our analysis. We identified 118 proteins with predicted functions in transport processes ( CITATION , Tables S3 and S5), including the putative amino acid transporter At5g02180. Most of these proteins were identified in the envelope fraction, which would be consistent with their functions in the outer and inner envelope membranes. Of all identified proteins, 46 were predicted in silico to localize to the inner envelope membrane CITATION , and nine of these 46 proteins have putative transport functions. Our proteome analysis confirmed the chloroplast envelope localization of these 46 proteins and provides further support for the nine predicted transporter proteins in the chloroplast envelope membranes. In addition, the chloroplast envelope localization of five of the nine predicted transporter proteins was recently reported CITATION . We also identified components of the chloroplast protein import complex (TOC and TIC components and the soluble factors CITATION ), except for TIC20 and TIC40 ( CITATION A). This could indicate that these two proteins are present at substoichiometric levels compared to the other TIC and TOC proteins or are, perhaps, not constitutive components of the import machinery. The 690 identified proteins represent a cross-section of the full chloroplast proteome. Since MS/MS identification was biased toward abundant proteins CITATION , our results most likely reflect the identification of biochemical pathways in the chloroplast that are most active at the developmental stage and growth condition of the plants used in our experiments. Therefore we predicted that our proteomics approach could identify most, if not all, enzymes of active pathways. Less active or inactive pathways would result in a comparatively lower coverage of identified proteins. We tested our hypothesis by analyzing the proteins we identified for important plastid metabolic activities ( CITATION and CITATION ). Coverage of chloroplast functions was, e.g., 93% for Calvin cycle enzymes and 65% for nucleus-encoded photosynthetic electron transport proteins CITATION . The identified proteins included all enzymes of the Calvin cycle except for a ribose epimerase, which is also expressed at very low RNA levels CITATION . This enzyme catalyzes the conversion of xylulose 5-phosphate to ribulose 5-phosphate, which is important for the regeneration of ribulose 5-phosphate as the primary substrate for CO 2 fixation. The failure to detect ribose epimerase in our MDC approach suggests that ribulose 5-phosphate may be predominantly regenerated from sedoheptulose 1,7-bisphosphate by the concerted action of transketolase and ribose 5-phosphate isomerase, both of which were identified under our experimental conditions CITATION . Coverage of enzymes from amino acid synthesis pathways was less complete (only 23%, CITATION ). Since glutamate and glutamine synthesis occur in the light while synthesis of aromatic amino acids is downregulated in the light CITATION , we investigated pathway coverage (i.e., the ratio between the number of identified enzymes and all enzymes in the pathway) for these metabolic pathways in more detail CITATION . All enzymes from the glutamate and glutamine synthesis pathways (100% pathway coverage) were identified suggesting that they are most active during photosynthesis CITATION . Several enzymes from the branched chain amino acid and arginine synthetic pathways were identified, but pathway coverage was less complete (below 50%, CITATION ). No enzyme was identified for the synthesis of aromatic amino acids. Aromatic amino acids are precursors for a large variety of secondary metabolites, many of which are involved in stress responses. Their synthesis is induced during stress and is usually not detectable under normal growth conditions CITATION . Pathway prevalence as suggested by pathway coverage is also well reflected at the RNA expression levels, which are highest for enzymes in the glutamate, glutamine, and branched-chain amino acid synthesis pathways and lowest for the aromatic amino acid synthesis pathways. For a general assessment of the correlation between transcript and relative protein abundance, we calculated the Spearman rank correlation for important chloroplast metabolic functions ( CITATION , last column). Collectively, we found a positive correlation between transcript abundance and protein detection for the amino acid synthesis pathways and the Calvin cycle CITATION , resulting in a Spearman rank correlation of 0.72 and 0.66, respectively ( CITATION and Figure S2). The positive correlation suggests that in photosynthetically active chloroplasts, these metabolic pathways are regulated primarily at the transcriptional level. This is in contrast to the tetrapyrrole synthesis pathway, for which we could not find a strong correlation between transcript levels and relative protein abundance (SpC, −0.25). Only a weak correlation was found for nucleus-encoded proteins of photosystems I and II (SpC, 0.42) ( CITATION and Figure S2). Since tetrapyrrole synthesis is tightly coordinated with the synthesis of photosystem light-harvesting proteins, our results support a view that this coordination is largely controlled by posttranscriptional processes, which are not fully understood at present (reviewed in CITATION ). Similarly, our proteome analysis identified only 25% of the known proteins involved in the regulation of chloroplast gene expression CITATION . Together, these results may reflect the growth of the plants at a light condition (100 μE) that reduces photodamage-induced repair of photosystem II (reviewed in CITATION ), and the time of harvest (2 hr after the onset of illumination), which is most likely before the chloroplasts have reached their full photosynthetic potential.
!~MM~! Chloroplasts were isolated from seven-week-old short day-grown (8 hr light/16 hr dark) Arabidopsis thaliana plants and purified by three consecutive steps of Percoll density gradient centrifugation. The purity of the chloroplast preparations was established by fluorescence microscopy, immunological detection of marker proteins, and diagnostic enzyme activity assays (fumarase, catalase). Chloroplast proteins were fractionated according to their different physico-chemical properties by using a combination of serial solubilization followed by ion exchange or Cibacron Blue Sepharose chromatography (Figure S1). Chloroplast envelope membranes were enriched as previously described CITATION . All protein fractions were subjected to SDS-PAGE; for each protein fraction the gel was cut into ten fractions, and each gel segment was subjected to “in gel tryptic digest” as described CITATION . Tryptic peptides were further fractionated by reversed phase chromatography coupled online to an ion trap mass spectrometer (LCQ DecaXP). Scans were defined as data-dependent scans with one full scan followed by four MS/MS scans of the highest intensity ions. Peptides were identified from a combined database containing all Arabidopsis , chloroplast, and mitochondrial proteins by using the SEQUEST search program followed by a visual examination of MS/MS spectra. (For a detailed description of the analysis and the interpretation of MS/MS data see the Supplemental Experimental Procedures.) Identified proteins were subjected to bioinformatics analyses as described in the Supplemental Experimental Procedures by using software tools available at http://mips.gsf.de/ , http://www.tigr.org/ , http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/ , http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/ , http://www.sanger.ac.uk/Software/Pfam/index.shtml/ , http://phylogenomics.berkeley.edu/resources/ , http://scop.berkeley.edu/ , http://www.rcsb.org/pdb/ , http://www.kegg.com/ , and http://arabidopsis.org/tools/aracyc/ . For mRNA-expression analysis total RNA was extracted in triplicates from 100 mg leaf material (same growth conditions and developmental age as for proteome analysis) by using Trizol (Life Technologies, USA) and further purified by using Qiagen RNeasy kit (Qiagen, Germany) according to the manufacturer instructions. Probe preparation, hybridization to the full genome Arabidopsis Affymetrix GeneChip, washing, staining, and scanning were carried out according to the manufacturer instructions (Affymetrix, Santa Clara). Raw data were processed with Affymetrix MicroarraySuite 5.0. Supplemental Data including Experimental Procedures, two figures, and five tables are available at http://www.current-biology.com/cgi/content/full/14/5/354/DC1/ .
