!~ABS~! NTHK1 is a salt-inducible ethylene receptor gene in tobacco. Transgenic tobacco plants for this gene show reduced ethylene sensitivity. Using cDNA microarray analysis, we were able to identify those genes that have different expression levels between NTHK1 transgenic plants and wild-type plants under salt stress conditions. One of these, AtLecRK2, which encodes a receptor-like kinase with an extracellular lectin-like domain, was characterized in detail in the present study. AtLecRK2 contains a signal peptide, an extracellular lectin-like domain, a single transmembrane domain and a cytoplasmic protein kinase domain. AtLecRK2 is transcribed in the root, flower and leaf but not in the stem. In wild-type Arabidopsis, salt stress induced the transcription level of AtLecRK2, whereas in the transgenic NTHK1 Arabidopsis induction of the AtLecRK2 transcript was inhibited and retarded. AtLecRK2 was constitutively overexpressed in the ethylene-overproducer mutant, eto1-1, and could be induced by ethylene. However, in the ethylene-insensitive mutant, ein2-1, the salt-induced expression pattern of AtLecRK2 was the same as that in wild-type plants. The results demonstrate that the induction of AtLecRK2 in response to salt stress is regulated by the ethylene signaling pathway. The induction was inhibited by the ethylene receptor, NTHK1, while it was independent of EIN2. The kinase activity of AtLecRK2 was also studied. We found that that AtLecRK2 can be autophosphorylated and has serine/threonine kinase activities. The subcellular localization of AtLecRK2-GFP in onion epidermal cells indicates that AtLecRK2 is localized on the plasma membrane.
!~RES~! By means of microarray analysis of salt-stressed NTHK1 transgenic plants and wild type plants, we identified an RLK gene, AtLecRK2, being downregulated in NTHK1 transgenic plants under salt stress. AtLecRK2 belongs to a subfamily of putative plant receptor serine/threonine kinases and is characterized by an extracellular legume lectin-like domain. In Arabidopsis, the lectin-like domain receptor protein kinases comprise a small multigenic family (Barre et al. CITATION). AtLecRK2 contains an open reading frame (ORF) that encodes a protein of 664 amino acids. The predicted protein has four putative distinct domains: a signal peptide domain, an extracellular lectin-like domain, a transmembrane domain and a kinase domain. The signal peptide domain, located at the N-terminal of AtLecRK2, consists of 20 amino acids. Following the signal peptide is the lectin-like domain, which is similar to that of legume lectins; this domain binds to extracellular signals. The kinase domain is located at the C-terminal of AtLecRK2, which is the general location of RLKs in plants. There are 12 conserved subdomains in the kinase domain, and most of the subdomains of the AtLecRK2 kinase domain have conserved motifs that are identical to those of other members of the protein kinase superfamily (Hanks and Quinn CITATION). A hydrophobic transmembrane domain was also identified between the kinase domain and the lectin-like domain, suggesting that AtLecRK2 is a putative transmembrane protein (Fig. 1). [[FIGURE]]  The amino acid sequence of AtLecRK2 was compared with those of three other lectin-like RLKs: AtLecRK1, AtLRK1 and GhLecRK. The degree of similarity of identity of AtLecRK2 with AtLecRK1, AtLRK1 and GhLecRK1 was 36.5%, 42.2% and 40.7% for the full-length amino acid sequence and 47.2%, 51.7% and 53.2% for kinase domain sequence, respectively. The degree of sequence identity among the lectin-like domains was relatively lower—32.7% (AtLecRK2 and AtLecRK1), 38.8% (AtLecRK2 and AtLRK1) and 35.2% (AtLecRK2 and GhLecRK1). Therefore, the lectin-like domains of these proteins are more divergent than the kinase domains. The transcription levels of AtLecRK2 were examined in the root, stem, leaf and flower by RT-PCR. The same cDNA was also used to amplify Actin7 as an internal control. The results show that the strongest expression of AtLecRK2 was found in the root and flower; lower expression was observed in the leaf, and almost no expression was detected in the stem (Fig. 2A). [[FIGURE]]  In order to investigate the different expression of AtLecRK2 in NTHK1 transgenic and wild-type plants, we performed RT-PCR using RNA obtained from plant material exposed to 200 mM NaCl. Our results show that in the wild-type plants AtLecRK2 transcription was induced upon salt treatment, reaching its highest level within 3 h to 6 h of initiation of the stress and falling thereafter to a normal level (Fig. 2B). In NTHK1 transgenic plants, the expression pattern was different (Fig. 2B). The transcription level of AtLecRK2 in NTHK1 transgenic plants was not significantly affected during the first 6 h of salt stress. Subsequently, however, AtLecRK2 was apparently induced. The induction was weaken and late in comparison to that in the wild-type plants. Ethylene-overproducer mutant eto1-1 and ethylene-insensitive mutant ein2-1 were also used to investigate the dynamic expression of AtLecRK2 in response to salt treatment. The results indicate that AtLecRK2 in eto1-1 was constitutively expressed at a relatively higher level and hardly at all influenced by salt stress. However, the expression level of AtLecRK2 in ethylene-insensitive mutant ein2-1 was almost the same as that of the wide-type plants in response to salt stress (Fig. 2B). Wild-type Arabidopsis plants were also exposed to 200 μM ACC, and the results show that the transcription level of AtLecRK2 increased steadily upon this exposure to 200 μM ACC (Fig. 2C). Because AtLecRK2 has a transmembrane domain, we also looked at the subcellular localization of AtLecRK2. The fusion gene AtLecRK2-GFP and the control GFP in PUC18, driven by CaMV 35S promoter, were transformed into onion epidermal cells by particle bombardment. Gene expression was revealed by the green fluorescence of the GFP marker and observed under a confocal microscope. The AtLecRK2-GFP fusion protein was localized on the plasma membrane (Fig. 3B), whereas the GFP control protein was mainly present in cytoplasm (Fig. 3 A). In order to differentiate between the plasma membrane and the cell wall, the onion epidermal cells showing AtLecRK2-GFP expression were treated with 0.8 M mannitol. This treatment induces plasmolysis and caused an internalization of the plasma membrane while the cell wall remained unchanged. In plasmolyzed cells the AtLecRK2-GFP fluorescence on the plasma membrane was internalized and pulled away from the cell wall (Fig. 3C), demonstrating that AtLecRK2 is localized on the plasma membrane. [[FIGURE]]  Since AtLecRK2 protein possesses a putative kinase domain, we expressed this domain (AtLecRK2-KD) as a GST fusion protein in yeast cells (SP-Q01) and tested its kinase activity. The expressed protein was purified by affinity resin and resolved by SDS-PAGE. The fusion protein exhibited the predicted molecular mass of 67 kDa (Fig. 4A). The AtLecRK2-KD protein was incubated with γ-[32P]-ATP, subjected to SDS-PAGE and then transferred onto PVDF membranes. It was apparent on the resulting autoradiograph (Fig. 4A) that [32P] had been incorporated into the fusion protein and that there was only a single radioactive band. The position of this band matched that of the recombinant protein detected by Coomassie blue staining. Therefore, AtLecRK2 had the ability to autophosphorylate. [[FIGURE]]  The phosphorylated AtLecRK2-KD protein was transferred onto PVDF membranes and the membranes treated with H2O, 1 N HCl or 3 N NaOH to examine the stability of the phosphorylated residues. The phosphorylated residues were found to be stable under H2O and acid treatment but sensitive to base treatment (Fig. 4B), indicating that the phosphorylated residues were phosphoserine, phosphothreonine and/or phosphotyrosine but not phosphohistidine. Phosphoamino acid analysis was carried out using two-dimensional TLC-electrophoresis. The phosphorylated AtLecRK2-KD was hydrolyzed with 6 N HCl and analyzed together with the phosphoamino acid standards. Phosphoserine and phosphothreonine were detected, whereas phosphotyrosine was not detected (Fig. 5). [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! Homozygous NTHK1 transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana (C.L.) Heynh. (Columbia) plants under the control of cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter and ethylene-related mutants eto1–1 and ein2–1 were grown on solid MS medium(Murashige and Skoog CITATION). Following culture at 23°C under continuous light for 10 days, the seedlings were carefully removed from the plates and subjected to two treatments for various lengths of time: immersion in 200 mM NaCl for the salt stress treatment and immersion in a 200 μM 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC) solution for the ethylene treatment. After these treatments, the plants were harvested and frozen in liquid nitrogen for total RNA isolation. The total RNA for organ-specific expression analysis was isolated from wild-type Columbia plants grown in soil for 2 months. Total RNA was isolated following the protocol of Zhang et al. (CITATION). The samples were powered in liquid nitrogen, extracted with guandinium-thiocyanate-chloroform, precipitated by ethanol and purified with LiCl. Total RNA was suspended in RNase-free water and stored at −20°C following quantification. Total RNA (5 μg) from each sample of treated material was reverse-transcribed with olig(dT) (Promega, Madison, Wis.), and the cDNA product served as templates for RT-PCR. The constitutively expressed gene in Arabidopsis, Actin7, was also subjected to RT-PCR at the same time as an internal standard. The AtLecRK2 sequence was amplified with AtLecRK2-specific primers 5′-TGATGAGTTCCTTACACTGG and 5′-AGAGTTGCAAATGGGTCATG, and the Actin7 sequence was amplified withActin7-specific primers 5′-GATGCTTACGTTGGTGATGA and 5′-CTGACTCATCGTACTCACT. The RT-PCR products were resolved on a 1% agarose gel. A transient expression vector with AtLecRK2-GFP (green fluorescent protein) was constructed to investigate the subcellular localization of AtLecRK2 in onion epidermal cells. The AtLecRK2 gene-specific primers 5′-ACAGGATCCTTAGCAATGGCTTGTAGAC and 5′-CAGGTCGACTCTTCCATGCCCGTCCAAC, containing the BamHI and SalI sites, respectively, were used to amplify the full-length AtLecRK2 cDNA. Following digestion with BamHI and SalI, the cDNA fragment was fused to the 3′-terminal end of GFP in the PUC18 vector, which can be expressed under the control of CaMV 35S promoter. The construction was confirmed by sequencing. Transformation of AtLecRK2-GFP in onion epidermal cells was performed using a Bio-Rad (Hercules, Calif.) biolistic particle delivery with 5 µg of each plasmid DNA precipitated onto M-17 tungsten particles. The PUC18 vector containing the GFP gene was used as a control for the localization study (Xie et al. CITATION). Onion peels were incubated at 25°C on solid MS medium supplemented with sucrose for 48 h following bombardment. GFP fluorescence in onion epidermal cells was visualized with a confocal microscope. Plasmolysis of the onion epidermal cell was induced by the addition of 0.8 M mannitol as described by Friedrichsen et al. (CITATION). The DNA fragment encoding the putative kinase domain of AtLecRK2 was amplified from the original AtLecRK2 plasmid. The primers of the kinase domain were 5′-CGAGGATCCAGGAGAAAGAAATATGCAGAAC and 5′-CAGGCTAGCTCTTCCATGCCCGTCCAAC, which contain the BamHI and NheI sites. The amplified PCR products were digested and cloned into the yeast expression vector pESP-2 (Stratagene, La Jolla, Calif.) and confirmed by sequencing. The constructed pESP-2 plasmid can express recombinant protein as a fusion of glutathione S-transferase (GST) in yeast. The recombinant plasmid was transformed into the Schizosaccharomyces pombe SP-Q01 yeast strain (Stratagene), and the positive colonies were identified by their ability to grow on Edinburgh minimal medium supplemented with thiamine. The fusion protein was induced by growing the cells in Edinburgh minimal medium without thiamine and purified using Glutathione Sepharose 4B (Amersham, UK) as described by Xie et al. CITATION). The GST fusion protein AtLecRK2-KD was analyzed for its kinase activity. Phosphorylation was carried out in 25-μl volumes of assay buffer [50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.6, 50 mM KCl, 2 mM DTT, 10% (v/v) glycerol] each containing 0.5 μg GST fusion protein in the presence of 5 mM MgCl2 and 5 mM MnCl2. The phosphorylation was initiated by adding 4.625×105 Bq γ-[32P]-ATP (1.11×10^14 Bq); this was followed by a 45-min incubation at 22°C for 45 min at which time the reaction was terminated by the addition of EDTA to a final concentration of 10 mM. The phosphorylated protein was subjected to 10% sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and transferred onto polyvinylidene difluoride (PVDF) membranes (Millipore, Bedford, Mass.). The incorporated phosphate was visualized by autoradiography. The stability of the incorporated phosphate was determined by treating the membranes with either water, 1 N HCl or 3 N NaOH for 4 h at room temperature. The treated membranes were then subjected to autoradiography. For phosphoamino acid analysis, the region of the membrane corresponding to the labeled AtLecRK2-KD was excised and hydrolyzed in 6 N HCl at 110°C for 1 h. The supernatant was lyophilized and then dissolved in 10 µl of distilled water. The samples together with the phosphoamino acid standards (Sigma, St. Louis, Mo.) were spotted onto 0.1-mm-thick cellulose thin-layer chromatography (TLC) plates (Merck) and subjected to two-dimensional TLC electrophoresis as described (Xie et al. CITATION). The positions of the three phosphoamino acid standards were visualized by spraying the plates with 0.25% ninhydrin in acetone followed by incubation in an oven at 65°C until the purple spots of the standards were visible. The plate was then autoradiographed to identify the labeled phosphoamino acids. The cloned DNA fragment was confirmed using an automated sequencing facility (ABI377; Applied Biosystems, Foster City, Calif.). The putative amino acid sequence encoded by the AtLecRK2 gene was compared with the sequence deduced from the nucleotide sequence in the Genbank database using the gapped blast program. Amino acid sequence alignment and protein structure analysis were performed using dnastar software and the smart program, respectively.
