!~ABS~! Assembly of stable light-harvesting complexes (LHCs) in the chloroplast of green algae and plants requires synthesis of chlorophyll (Chl) b, a reaction that involves oxygenation of the 7-methyl group of Chl a to a formyl group. This reaction uses molecular oxygen and is catalyzed by chlorophyllide a oxygenase (CAO). The amino acid sequence of CAO predicts mononuclear iron and Rieske iron-sulfur centers in the protein. The mechanism of synthesis of Chl b and localization of this reaction in the chloroplast are essential steps toward understanding LHC assembly. Fluorescence of a CAO-GFP fusion protein, transiently expressed in young pea leaves, was found at the periphery of mature chloroplasts and on thylakoid membranes by confocal fluorescence microscopy. However, when membranes from partially degreened cells of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii cw15 were resolved on sucrose gradients, full-length CAO was detected by immunoblot analysis only on the chloroplast envelope inner membrane. The electron paramagnetic resonance spectrum of CAO included a resonance at g = 4.3, assigned to the predicted mononuclear iron center. Instead of a spectrum of the predicted Rieske iron-sulfur center, a nearly symmetrical, approximately 100 Gauss peak-to-trough signal was observed at g = 2.057, with a sensitivity to temperature characteristic of an iron-sulfur center. A remarkably stable radical in the protein was revealed by an isotropic, 9 Gauss peak-to-trough signal at g = 2.0042. Fragmentation of the protein after incorporation of 125I- identified a conserved tyrosine residue (Tyr-422 in Chlamydomonas and Tyr-518 in Arabidopsis) as the radical species. The radical was quenched by chlorophyll a, an indication that it may be involved in the enzymatic reaction. CAO was found on the chloroplast envelope and thylakoid membranes in mature chloroplasts but only on the envelope inner membrane in dark-grown C. reinhardtii cells. Such localization provides further support for the envelope membranes as the initial site of Chl b synthesis and assembly of LHCs during chloroplast development. Identification of a tyrosine radical in the protein provides insight into the mechanism of Chl b synthesis.
!~RES~! To determine localization of CAO in chloroplasts, leaves of young pea plants were biolistically transformed with the CAO coding sequence fused in frame at the 3' end to the coding sequence of GFP. Twenty-four hours after transient expression from the CaMV35S promoter, green fluorescence of GFP was localized quantitatively to chloroplasts, and appeared throughout the chloroplast (Figure [F1]), including thylakoid membranes, which were indicated by red fluorescence of Chl (Figure [F1]). As shown by the overlay in Figure [F1], direct correspondence of green and red fluorescence was not found. Particularly at the periphery of the plastids, the green fluorescence of GFP seemed predominant (arrows) while the fluorescence of Chl was predominant within the chloroplast (asterisks). This experiment indicated that CAO was located on envelope and thylakoid membranes in developed chloroplasts, although the relative enrichment seemed greater in the envelope as compared with thylakoid membranes. To localize CAO by a biochemical approach, homogenized Arabidopsis leaves or broken Chlamydomonas cells were centrifuged to separate membrane and soluble proteins. Immunoblot analysis after electrophoresis of proteins in these cell fractions showed that CAO was recovered quantitatively with membranes and was not released when membranes were washed with 1 M NaCl (not shown). Membranes from cells of C. reinhardtii cw15 were resolved on sucrose gradients, followed by immunoblot analysis after electrophoresis of proteins in fractions from the gradients. CAO was recovered in membranes with buoyant densities characteristic of envelope membranes (ρ = 1.10 to 1.13 g cm-3; 0.8 to 1.0 M sucrose) and in thylakoid membranes (ρ ≈ 1.17 g cm-3; about 1.3 M sucrose) [[B19]], consistent with results shown in Figure [F1]. Because we found previously that the thylakoid marker LHCP was detected in the low-density region of the gradient [[B20]], regions containing envelope were possibly contaminated with thylakoid membranes. Thus advantage was taken of the ability to grow C. reinhardtii cw15 cells in the dark to reduce the amount of thylakoid membranes and determine more clearly whether CAO is present in envelope membranes. When samples from cells grown in the dark for 3 days were applied to sucrose gradients, a yellow, slightly turbid band with a density (ρ ≈ 1.12 g cm-3) typical of the inner envelope membrane was resolved in the middle of the gradient (Figure [F2], fractions 3–6). The only immunoreactive polypeptide detected in these fractions with antiserum against CAO was 51 kDa in mass, the size predicted for the CAO gene product [[B14]]. These immunoreactive membranes were clearly separated from residual thylakoid membranes, indicated by their content of Chl and by immunostaining with antibodies against LHCP, which were recovered in fractions 6–9. Intact CAO was not detected in these latter fractions. A low level of mature-sized LHCP was detected in the mid-region and also near the top of the gradient, at a buoyant density of envelope outer membranes [[B19],[B20]]. Previous work [[B13],[B21]] showed by immunoelectron microscopy that LHCPs were incorporated initially into membranes of the envelope during chloroplast development, assembled into LHCs, and then transferred to their major site of accumulation, the thylakoid membrane. These results are similar to the small amount of mature-sized LHCP recovered with purified envelope membranes by Bovet et al. [[B22],[B23]], which was phosphorylated by a membrane-bound kinase and may represent LHCP transiently associated with the envelope during import. Expression of Arabidopsis CAO cDNA was induced in E. coli at 20°C to maximize recovery of correctly folded enzyme [[B24]]. The initial EPR spectrum of a membrane fraction measured at 125 K revealed the presence of several distinct paramagnetic species (Figure [F3], upper trace). A narrow signal at g = 4.3 was assigned to high-spin, non-heme Fe3+ in a near-maximally rhombic environment (E/D ≈ 1/3). A sextet of small peaks in the region between 3000 and 3600 Gauss was attributed to a low level of contaminating Mn2+. In subsequent experiments, the Mn2+ signals were eliminated by a wash of membranes with 0.1 mM EDTA (Figure [F3]). Although the g = 4.3 signal often results from adventitious Fe3+, this signal was not diminished significantly by the wash with EDTA, nor was the signal decreased by addition of reductants such as dithiothreitol or ascorbate (not shown), which should reduce free iron to the EPR-silent Fe2+. Thus the g = 4.3 signal appeared to indicate assembly of the predicted mononuclear iron center, which was possibly protected from the environment or stabilized by the surrounding protein structure. (This conclusion is reinforced by data shown below for membranes solubilized with detergents.) The most striking feature of the spectrum was a signal at g = 2.0042 characteristic of an organic radical species (Figure [F3], upper trace, and Figure [F3]). Addition of Chl a to the sample quenched the radical (Figure [F3], lower trace), which suggested that the radical species resided in CAO and is likely involved in catalytic activity. The isotropic feature of the radical spectrum, with a 9 Gauss peak-to-trough linewidth, is shown on an expanded scale in Figure [F4] for a sample washed with 0.1 mM EDTA. Free radical species are present in E. coli membranes [[B25],[B26]], and thus it was important to achieve sufficient over-expression of CAO to facilitate analysis of the EPR spectrum of CAO without interference from endogenous signals. We observed an endogenous radical in the spectrum of membrane samples from uninduced E. coli cells that was approximately equal in amplitude to a strong, endogenous high-spin, Fe3+ signal at g ≈ 6, possibly from a cytochrome [[B27]] (not shown). The g ≈ 6 signal, and by implication that from the endogenous radical, was below detection in samples of over-expressed CAO (Figures [F3] and [F3]). Electrophoresis of samples used for EPR spectroscopy revealed a 54 kDa polypeptide, the mass expected of the recombinant CAO (see below), that was prominent in fractions from cells in which CAO expression was induced but absent in samples from uninduced cells (see below). When the temperature at which EPR spectra were measured was lowered below 15 K, a broad signal appeared at g = 2.057 (Figure [F3]). The nearly symmetrical nature of this signal, with a peak-to-trough linewidth of about 100 Gauss, is shown in Figure [F4] after addition of Chl to quench the radical. This signal weakened dramatically as the temperature was increased above 20 K (not shown). Interestingly, the addition of reducing agents such as dithiothreitol or dithionite to the ambient-oxidized samples did not significantly affect the intensity of this signal. However, the signal disappeared after addition of mercaptoethanol (Figure [F4]). We have no obvious explanation for the differing effects of reducing agents other than the possibility that the EPR-active center was more accessible to the smaller, less polar mercaptoethanol. Although the shape and position of this signal is similar to the EPR spectrum of Cu2+ [[B28]-[B30]], its sensitivity to temperature and resistance to reductants, except for mercaptoethanol, did not support this assignment. The large stability constant of Cu2+ with EDTA [[B31]] also argues against the metal being retained after the sample was washed with EDTA. To determine whether the spectrum of the recombinant protein was the same as the native enzyme, proteins were obtained by immunoprecipitation with antiserum raised against a C-terminal fragment of CAO. This region of the protein was selected as antigen to avoid cross-reaction with other redox active proteins that contain conserved Rieske or mononuclear iron domains. The EPR spectrum of CAO recovered from detergent-solubilized extracts from Arabidopsis leaves (Figure [F5]) was similar to that obtained with the recombinant protein. Strong signals were found at g = 4.3 for the mononuclear iron center and at g = 2.057, which overlapped the spectrum of the radical. We did not detect a signal predicted for a Rieske iron-sulfur center up-field from the radical spectrum after addition of dithionite or ascorbate. The spectrum was not significantly different in shape when the microwave power used for the measurement was raised from 2 mW to 100 mW at 7 K (not shown). Immunoprecipitated CAO from C. reinhardtii cw15 cells (Figure [F5]) provided a spectrum similar to that obtained with the sample from Arabidopsis. Preparations from Chlamydomonas cells were often contaminated with Mn2+ (not shown), but as illustrated in Figure [F5], samples washed with 0.1 mM EDTA prior to the analysis lacked Mn2+ signals. The treatment with EDTA did not significantly affect the magnitude of the g = 4.3 signal, which indicated that the latter did not arise from contaminating Fe3+. Iron has a slightly higher stability constant with EDTA than manganese [[B31]], which supports this treatment as an appropriate control for adventitious transition metals. Furthermore, these samples were prepared from detergent-solubilized membranes, which should preclude simply trapping iron within a membrane pellet. A control sample prepared with preimmune serum and washed with 0.1 mM EDTA lacked the radical spectrum at g = 2.0042 and the g = 4.3 signal (Figure [F5]). The preimmune control in some experiments contained a low amplitude signal that overlapped the g = 2.057 signal, but the background structure did not match the peak-to-trough positions of signals in the immunopurified CAO, nor was it present in other samples (see Figure [F4]). Analysis of immunoprecipitates from Chlamydomonas by electrophoresis revealed the heavy and light chains of IgG and three additional polypeptides between 14 kDa and 20 kDa in mass (not shown). These polypeptides were possibly functionally associated with the enzyme but did not react with antibodies against CAO. Preliminary evidence obtained by mass spectrometry of tryptic fragments provided a tentative identification of the 14 kDa component as a thioredoxin, while the analysis suggested that the 20 kDa polypeptide was a minor Lhcb. CAO migrated near the heavy chain of IgG. The isotropic g = 2.0042 signal indicated the existence of a stable radical in the protein, characteristic of the phenolate radical of tyrosine. To confirm that the radical occurred on an amino acid residue, membrane fractions from E. coli, Arabidopsis and Chlamydomonas were incubated with Na125I, which was reported to react specifically with tyrosine radicals [[B32],[B33]], and the proteins were resolved by electrophoresis. Radioautographic analysis of the dried gel revealed labeling of a protein, 51 kDa in membranes from Chlamydomonas (Figure [F6], lanes 1 and 2) and 56 kDa from Arabidopsis membranes (Figure [F6], lanes 3 and 4). Other proteins also became labeled, in particular a 32 kDa protein, probably the reaction center protein D2, whose tyrosine radical is known to react with iodide [[B32]]. CAO expressed in E. coli, either as the crude membrane sample (Figure [F6], lanes 5 and 6) or after purification (Figure [F6], lanes 7 and 8), migrated as a 54 kDa polypeptide. From N-terminal sequence analysis, the terminal two amino acids were derived from the pQE70 vector, which were followed by the CAO sequence starting at Lys-51. The smaller, labeled polypeptide in lane 6, 26 kDa in mass (marked with an asterisk), was a C-terminal fragment of CAO beginning at Pro-298. This fragment possibly resulted from a trypsin-like cleavage at Lys-296 and removal of the subsequent N-terminal Met-297. The N-terminal sequences of the other two major polypeptides in Figure [F6], lane 6, 39 kDa and 35 kDa in mass, corresponded to the abundant porins OmpC and OmpA, respectively, which were not significantly labeled. Recovery of radioactivity with the protein after electrophoresis indicated that the radical species was associated with the protein and not a cofactor. The labeled amino acid was identified based on its position relative to a Lys or Arg residue. A tyrosine residue occurs in 9 of the first 15 positions downstream of these trypsin cleavage sites. CAO from dark-grown C. reinhardtii cells was immunopurified and 125I-labeled. The sample was digested with trypsin and the mixture was subjected to successive cycles of N-terminal degradation. Most of the radioactivity was released in cycle 1 (Figure [F6]). The amount of radioactivity in cycle 2 was likely the result of incomplete transfer of the sample from the reaction vial to the fraction collector. Essentially the same result was obtained with CAO prepared from light-grown cells (Figure [F6]). Only Tyr-422 in CAO from C. reinhardtii cw15 should be N-terminal after trypsin digestion. Similar results were obtained with immunopurified CAO from Arabidopsis (Figure [F6]), with Tyr-518 as the corresponding residue. When the Arabidopsis CAO expressed in E. coli was analyzed, data similar to those in Figure [F6] were obtained (not shown). The low levels of radioactivity released in remaining cycles indicated that labeling with 125I- was highly specific and digestion with trypsin was essentially complete.
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis CAO cDNA [[B14]] was ligated into pQE70 and expressed in E. coli strain M15/pREp4, as described by Oster et al. [[B57]]. Cells in 50 mM Hepes buffer, pH 7.5, were broken by passage two times through a French pressure cell at 15 k psi. Cells of C. reinhardtii cw15, a cell-wall-less strain that does not synthesize Chl in the dark, were grown as described previously [[B63]]. Primary leaves of two-week old Arabidopsis thaliana (var. Col-0) were chopped with razor blades, homogenized with a Waring blender and filtered through cheesecloth. Samples were centrifuged at 3 kgav and supernatant fractions were centrifuged at 200 kgav for 30 min to obtain membrane pellets. CaMV35S promoter, TMV Omega sequence and AtCAO-GFP gene were introduced into the multi-cloning site of pGreenII0029. For transient expression in pea guard cells, 25 μl of gold particles (1 μm diameter, 30 mg ml-1 in 50% glycerol) were mixed with 5 μl of plasmid DNA (~5 μg). After addition of 25 μl of 2.5 M CaCl2 and 10 μl of 0.1 M spermidine, the DNA was precipitated on the gold particles at room temperature for 3 min with continuous shaking. The gold pellet was washed once in 70% ethanol before being suspended in 30 μl of 100% ethanol. Aliquots of gold were spotted on macrocarriers and used to transform pea guard cells at 1.3 k psi using a PDS 1000HE biolistic device (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Hercules, CA). The bombarded leaf was mounted on a plastic plate 24 h after transformation and fluorescence images were recorded on a MRC 1024 system (Bio-Rad) and an Axioplan fluorescent microscope (Carl Zeiss, Jena, Germany) equipped with a Plan-Fluar100 × objective lens. A krypton-argon laser was used as excitation source at 488 nm and fluorescence intensities at 522 and 680 nm were recorded. Membrane pellets from Chlamydomonas were suspended in 50 mM Hepes, pH 7.5, and applied to linear sucrose gradients, 0.4 to 1.5 M containing 10 mM Hepes, pH 7.5, and 1 mM EDTA. Gradients in a Beckman SW41 rotor were centrifuged at 250 kgav for 15 h. Fractions were collected from gradients, and after electrophoresis on 10 to 20% polyacrylamide gradient gels [[B64]], proteins were transblotted onto Immobilon-P membranes (Millipore, Bedford, MA) and immunostained as described previously [[B21]]. Antiserum was produced against a fragment of Arabidopsis CAO that had been fused to the maltose binding protein using the pMAL fusion system (New England Biolabs, Beverly, MA). A partial CAO cDNA clone (103D24) was amplified with the following primers, 5'-GGAATTCAGTGTCCCAAGTTTGGTGAA-3' and 5'-GCTCTAGATTAGCCGGAGAAAGGTAGTTT-3', which cover the region spanning Ser-381 to the C-terminal Gly-536. The PCR product was ligated into the pMAL-c2 vector using XbaI and EcoRI, and the resulting plasmid insert was sequenced. The recombinant protein (4.3 mg) was purified according to manufacturer's instructions, cleaved with Factor Xa, and the antigen fragment was purified by SDS-PAGE. Coomassie blue-stained gel slices were used to produce polyclonal antiserum in rabbits by Antibodies Inc., Davis, CA. Arabidopsis leaves (10 g) were homogenized in 50 mM Hepes buffer, pH 7.5, and filtered through cheese cloth. n-Dodecyl-β-D-maltoside was added to 2% (w/v) and the sample was centrifuged at 3 kgav for 5 min to remove particulate material. The supernatant fraction (30 ml) was incubated with 0.5 ml of antiserum against CAO for 90 min with gentle shaking. Sufficient protein A-agarose (Sigma Chemical Co., St. Louis, MO) was added to bind all IgG in the antiserum, and the immunocomplex was recovered after incubation for an additional 90 min by centrifugation at 3 kgav for 5 min. An immunocomplex was also obtained from broken, log-phase cells of C. reinhardtii cw15 as described for Arabidopsis leaves. The precipitates were washed 3 times with 50 mM Hepes buffer, pH 7.5, and one time with 0.1 mM EDTA, pH 7.5, which was necessary to remove adventitious Mn2+. Continuous wave EPR spectra were obtained with a Bruker E580 spectrometer equipped with an Oxford ESR900 liquid helium flow cryostat and Bruker TE102 rectangular standard cavity, at temperatures from 6 to 14 K. Other typical measurement conditions were: magnetic field modulation amplitude, 10 Gauss; modulation frequency, 100 kHz; microwave power, 5 mW for Figures [F3] and [F4] and 2 mW for Figure [F5]; microwave frequency, 9.40 GHz; horizontal resolution, 1024 points; total signal averaging time per spectrum, about 22 min; gain, 60 dB; time constant, 0.082 seconds. Chl a was purified from acetone extracts of Chlamydomonas cells by preparative HPLC with methanol as the elution solvent [[B35]], evaporated to dryness with a stream of N2 and dissolved in a small volume of ethanol. Immediately prior to EPR analysis, samples were mixed at room temperature and then frozen in liquid N2. Membrane pellets (3 to 5 mg protein) from E. coli, C. reinhardtii and A. thaliana were suspended in 50 mM Hepes, pH 7.5, containing 50 mM NaCl, incubated with 55 kBq carrier-free Na125I (Amersham Biosciences, Piscataway, NJ) for 20 min at 25°C (50 μl final volume). Proteins were precipitated by addition of 10 volumes of acetone, washed 2 times with acetone, and resolved by electrophoresis [[B64]]. Gels were dried between sheets of BioDesignGelWrap™ (BioDesign, Inc., New York, NY) and radioautograms were obtained with a Storm 840 PhosphorImager (Molecular Dynamics, Piscataway, NJ). Immunoprecipitates prepared as described above from Chlamydomonas and Arabidopsis were suspended in 200 to 400 μl 50 mM Hepes, pH 8.0, containing 50 mM NaCl, and incubated with 3 MBq Na125I for 15 min at 25°C. Samples were then precipitated by adding 5 vol acetone and washed two times with acetone. Protein was recovered from agarose beads by extraction with 1% SDS in 50 mM Hepes, pH 8.0, for 1 min in a boiling water bath followed by 5 washes with buffer. Protein was recovered by precipitation with 5 volumes of acetone and dried under a stream of N2. Approximately 1 mg protein in 200 to 300 μl 20 mM NH4HCO3 was digested with 200 μg trypsin (Worthington, Lakewood, NJ) for 20 h at 38°C, dried at 50°C and subjected to N-terminal Edman degradation with a gas phase protein sequencer (model 2090, Beckman/Porton, Fullerton, CA). The amino acid derivatives released in each sequencing cycle were collected, spotted onto Whatman 3 MM paper, and quantitated with the Phosphorimager and ImageQuant software (Molecular Dynamics).
