!~ABS~! Chloroplast division is mediated by the coordinated action of a prokaryote-derived division system(s) and a host eukaryote-derived membrane fission system(s). The evolutionary conserved prokaryote-derived system comprises several nucleus-encoded proteins, two of which are thought to control division site placement at the midpoint of the organelle: a stromal ATPase MinD and a topological specificity factor MinE. Here, we show that arc11, one of 12 recessive accumulation and replication of chloroplasts (arc) mutants in Arabidopsis, contains highly elongated and multiple-arrayed chloroplasts in developing green tissues. Genomic sequence analysis revealed that arc11 contains a missense mutation in α-helix 11 of the chloroplast-targeted AtMinD1 changing an Ala at position 296 to Gly (A296G). Introduction of wild-type AtMinD1 restores the chloroplast division defects of arc11 and quantitative RT-PCR analysis showed that the degree of complementation was highly dependent on transgene expression levels. Overexpression of the mutant ARC11/AtMinD1 in transgenic plants results in the inhibition of chloroplast division, showing that the mutant protein has retained its division inhibition activity. However, in contrast to the defined and punctate intraplastidic localization patterns of an AtMinD1-YFP fusion protein, the single A296G point mutation in ARC11/AtMinD1 results in aberrant localization patterns inside chloroplasts. We further show that AtMinD1 is capable of forming homodimers and that this dimerization capacity is abolished by the A296G mutation in ARC11/AtMinD1. Our data show that arc11 is a loss-of-function mutant of AtMinD1 and suggest that the formation of functional AtMinD1 homodimers is paramount for appropriate AtMinD1 localization, ultimately ensuring correct division machinery placement and chloroplast division in plants.
!~RES~! Chloroplasts undergo active membrane expansion and division during development from undifferentiated proplastids in meristems (Pyke et al., 1999). In higher plants chloroplast division is not synchronized, which is evident from the variety of chloroplast division states visible in various tissues and cells (Fig. 1A). To efficiently characterize division states of arc11 chloroplasts, we made use of hypocotyls and primary leaf petioles at an early stage of seedling development. Chlorophyll autofluorescence imaging by CLSM showed that a wide range of green tissues in arc11 contain a decreased number of mostly elongated and expanded chloroplasts with irregular shapes as compared with wild-type (WT, Ler) tissues, which contain round to ellipsoidal or dumbbell-shaped chloroplasts (Fig. 1A). More detailed single chloroplast imaging using higher magnifications revealed that the morphological abnormalities of arc11 chloroplasts are clearly linked to defects in division, as revealed by the existence of multiple constrictions (Fig. 1B; see also supplementary figure). Normal chloroplast division follows a coordinated pathway of events: slight envelope expansion, initial central constriction at a single site, further membrane constriction, and membrane fission as the final stage (see Fig. 1B, inset). By contrast, arc11 chloroplasts did not display a single central constriction but showed a varying number of constrictions from one to several, the most severe phenotype showing six constriction sites (Fig. 1B; see supplementary figure). Moreover, these constriction sites were placed randomly, but in parallel, along the long axis of chloroplasts (Fig. 1B). The arrayed chloroplast morphology indicates that membrane constriction in arc11 initiates and proceeds regardless of division initiation at other sites. The asymmetrical placement of constriction sites and the continuing membrane expansion results in a heterogeneous population of chloroplasts in terms of size and shape, including spherical mini-chloroplasts less than 2 μm in diameter (Fig. 1B, white arrowhead). Despite this, the envelope membrane still appears to grow with polarity during the division process. In more mature cells such as mesophyll cells, multiple arrayed chloroplasts could not be detected, whereas elongated and filamentous chloroplasts could be observed (data not shown) as described previously (CITATION).   [[FIGURE]] It is clear that arc11 chloroplasts mislocalize the chloroplast division apparatus during division, a phenotype previously not reported. Furthermore, the observed phenotypes of dividing arc11 chloroplasts show significant resemblance to the min mutants (CITATION), in addition to the observed phenotype of AtMinE1 overexpressing plants (CITATION). It was previously reported that the asymmetric division of arc11 mesophyll chloroplasts showed similarity to the chloroplast morphology observed in Arabidopsis AtMinD1 antisense plants (CITATION). Furthermore, the arc11 locus was mapped close to the SSLP marker nga139 on Arabidopsis chromosome V (CITATION), which is in close proximity to the AtMinD1 locus (Fig. 2A). To examine our hypothesis that arc11 could be allelic to AtMinD1, we investigated the expression profile and the DNA sequence of AtMinD1 in arc11. Quantification of AtMinD1 transcripts using AtMinD1/18S rRNA ratio calculations indicated that the transcript abundance in Ler and arc11 seedlings is almost identical, with relative amounts of 1.40±0.14 (L er=1) (Fig. 3). However, AtMinD1 sequence analysis in Col, Ler and arc11 revealed that a single nucleotide substitution is present in AtMinD1 in arc11 (Fig. 2B). This cytosine to guanine nucleotide substitution results in a missense A296G mutation within α-helix 11 at the C-terminus of AtMinD1 (Fig. 2). Interestingly, alignment analysis of MinD amino acid sequences from bacteria to plants revealed that Ala 296 shares limited conservation to green plants. Moreover, the recent crystal structure and functional analyses of bacterial MinD proteins (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) has revealed that Ala 296 is located distantly from crucial motifs and amino acid residues important for direct nucleotide binding and interaction with MinC. To date, no functional implications have been reported for α-helix 11 in any species.   [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]] To test whether the arc11 phenotype is indeed due to the A296G mutation in AtMinD1, we introduced a wild-type AtMinD1 transgene into the nuclear genome of arc11 plants. AtMinD1 was expressed as a fusion with a 21-residue double hemagglutinin (dHA) epitope tag at its C-terminus under the control of the AtMinD1 upstream genomic promoter sequence. In all, 55 T1 plants were obtained, and chloroplast morphology and AtMinD1 expression levels of these plants were examined (Figs 3, 4). In many plants partial or full complementation phenotypes could be observed at the T1 generation, which was associated with T-DNA insertions; however, several T2 and T3 progenies displayed different chloroplast phenotypes between individuals (Fig. 4F,G; data not shown). By observing hygromycin resistance (T-DNA marker) in segregated plants this observation was most probably due to changes in genomic T-DNA copy number resulting in disequilibration of the highly sensitive relationship between AtMinD1 expression levels and chloroplast division (CITATION; CITATION). Further microscopic characterizations established three independent transgenic lines showing stable complementation phenotypes at T3 and T4 generations (Fig. 4C), whereas more than ten lines showed an apparent division inhibition phenotype (Fig. 4D). Using immunoblot analysis and the anti-HA antibody we confirmed that the transgene in these transgenic lines produced the expected sized protein (data not shown). Quantitative RT-PCR analyses of total and endogenous AtMinD1 transcript levels confirmed that transgenic plants showing successful complementation (lines 11HA38 and 11HA42; Fig. 4C) displayed similar (0.96 to 2.82 times to that of WT AtMinD1) AtMinD1 transgene expression levels to WT (Fig. 3). By contrast, the chloroplast division inhibition phenotype (lines 11HA2 and 11HA7; Fig. 4D) was associated with highly elevated transgene expression levels, consistent with previous observations (Fig. 3) (CITATION; CITATION). Together, these findings show that arc11 is a loss-of-function mutant of AtMinD1 and that the observed phenotype is due to a single A296G mutation.   [[FIGURE]] Interestingly, the observed chloroplast phenotype in partially complemented plants implied that slightly elevated expression levels of AtMinD1 have an effect on chloroplast envelope morphology (Fig. 4G,H). Several segregating individuals from original T1 plant (line 11HA38) showed slight division inhibition and normal-to-larger chloroplasts, 6-9 μm in diameter, within cells (Fig. 4G). These chloroplasts displayed low heterogeneity in terms of size; however, the chloroplasts showed abnormalities in terms of envelope morphology, exhibiting distorted or surface-rugged outlines (Fig. 4G). Quantitative RT-PCR analysis for stable transgenic plants (line 11HA44; Fig. 4H) revealed that this phenotype is attributed to moderately enhanced AtMinD1 transgene expression (Fig. 3). This indicates that normal expression of AtMinD1 may be important not only for appropriate chloroplast division but also for correct envelope morphology. MinD is an inhibitory division protein and its overexpression prevents division in Escherichia coli and chloroplasts (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). If the A296G mutation perturbs AtMinD1 function, we would expect that AtMinD1(A296G) overproduction would not affect chloroplast division. To test this, we expressed AtMinD1(A296G) under the control of the CaMV35S promoter in WT plant (Fig. 5). A total of 20 CaMV35S-AtMinD1(A296G) transgenic plants were obtained and analyzed by microscopy and RT-PCR as described previously. From this analysis we found that the transgenic plants displayed division inhibition, producing a few but enlarged chloroplasts inside cells (Fig. 5B). In some cases the large chloroplasts seemed to be vacuolated, as observed in arc11 and arc11 transgenic plants (see Fig. 4D). Quantification of AtMinD1 transcript levels showed that endogenous AtMinD1 levels were not affected in the AtMinD1(A296G) transgenic plants, proving that the observed division inhibition is associated with AtMinD1(A296G) transgene expression. These results show that the AtMinD1(A296G) mutant protein has retained its division inhibition activity but has lost its ability to control appropriate placement of the division apparatus.   [[FIGURE]] We previously reported that an AtMinD1-GFP fusion protein localizes to discrete speckle(s), which tend to localize as single spots at polar regions in ellipsoidal chloroplasts (CITATION). To investigate the effect of the A296G mutation on intraplastidic behavior of AtMinD1, we expressed an AtMinD1(A296G)-YFP fusion protein in live plant cells (Fig. 6). As observed previously in transgenic plants, expression of a WT AtMinD1-GFP or AtMinD1-YFP fusion protein in leaf epidermal cells revealed discrete fluorescence signals to single stromal spots/speckles (Fig. 6; Table 1). By contrast, expression of an AtMinD1(A296G)-GFP or AtMinD1(A296G)-YFP fusion protein in leaf epidermal cells resulted in chloroplasts showing either large and distorted fluorescent aggregates and/or multiple speckles (Fig. 6; Table 1). These data show that the A296G mutation in ARC11/AtMinD1 results in abnormal AtMinD1 intraplastidic localization patterns and implies an important role for α-helix 11 in terms of correct AtMinD1 localization as part of the chloroplast division pathway.   [[FIGURE]]   [[TABLE]] It has been shown that bacterial MinD forms dimers or polymers in the presence of ATP on the membrane (CITATION; CITATION), and it is possible that the intraplastidic mislocalization of AtMinD1(A296G) inside chloroplasts is either due to loss of direct interaction with the envelope region itself or due to loss of protein-protein interaction capabilities. To gain further insights into this we examined protein-protein interactions of AtMinD1 using the yeast two-hybrid system (Fig. 7). Full-length WT AtMinD1 proteins were fused to the C-terminus of the Gal4 activation domain (AD-AtMinD1) and to the Gal4 DNA binding domain (BD-AtMinD1), respectively, and expressed in yeast AH109 cells. As a marker for protein-protein interactions we made use of the ability of AH109 to only grow in the absence of His on positive protein-protein interactions. We found that His auxotrophy was only restored in yeast cells cotransformed with both AD-AtMinD1 and BD-AtMinD1, showing that AtMinD1 can form homodimers (Fig. 7). The AtMinD1 interaction appears to be relatively weak and/or transient in yeast cells, which was further verified by the observation that individual yeast transformants exhibited slightly different growth rates on His selection plates (data not shown). Although the AtMinD1 interactions observed are relatively weak, repeated experiments have conclusively confirmed that AtMinD1 is capable of forming homodimers in vivo. In sharp contrast, His auxotrophy was not restored in yeast cells cotransformed with both AD-AtMinD1 and BD-AtMinD1(A296G), suggesting that the A296G mutation in ARC11 abolishes its ability to form homodimers (Fig. 7). This was further confirmed by the lack of His auxotrophy restoration in yeast cells cotransformed with both AD-AtMinD1(A296G) and BD-AtMinD1(A296G). Taken together, our results suggest that AtMinD1 is capable of forming homodimers in vivo and that the loss of homodimerization of AtMinD1 in arc11 results in intraplastidic mislocalization of AtMinD1, ultimately culminating in misplacement of the chloroplast division apparatus.   [[FIGURE]] To corroborate our yeast two-hybrid results we analyzed AtMinD1 protein-protein interactions using Fluorescence Resonance Energy Transfer (FRET) technology (CITATION; CITATION). FRET is an energy transfer process from a donor fluorophore to an acceptor fluorophore when donor and acceptor fluorophore are in close proximity (∼100 Å); it has recently been utilized to analyze live cell events such as calcium ion dynamics and protein-protein interactions in planta (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). On the basis of their spectroscopic properties cyan fluorescent protein (CFP) and yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) represent an ideal FRET fluorophore pair in vivo: energy flow from the donor (CFP) to the acceptor (YFP) enables capture of YFP emission upon CFP excitation. We constructed two vectors expressing AtMinD1 as a fusion to CFP and YFP and transiently expressed these in tobacco leaf cells by particle bombardment. As expected, both fusion proteins, in their respective CFP and YFP fluorescent channels, showed a discrete bright speckle(s) within chloroplasts (Fig. 8A), as observed with AtMinD1-YFP (Fig. 6). In cells where AtMinD1-CFP and AtMinD1-YFP were co-expressed, a significant increase in fluorescence intensity was observed upon CFP excitation in the FRET channel (excitation filter 436/10; emission filter 535/30) as compared with the signal (bleedthrough) when using single fluorescent protein fusions (Fig. 8A), suggesting that FRET occurs from the donor (AtMinD1-CFP) to the acceptor (AtMinD1-YFP) in chloroplasts. To verify these findings we performed acceptor photobleaching experiments (Miyawaki and Tsien, 1999) by applying high-intensity YFP excitation for a short time period to minimize chloroplast damage (Fig. 8B). After photobleaching a clear increase of the donor fluorescence (CFP) was observed in the fluorescent regions within chloroplasts (Fig. 8B), showing a reduction in energy transfer, which is diagnostic of FRET. We detected no increase in AtMinD1-CFP fluorescence by this treatment in single fluorophore control experiments, but rather a fluorescence signal decrease as expected (data not shown). Thus, our data show that FRET occurred between AtMinD1-CFP and AtMinD1-YFP and that AtMinD1 proteins physically interact inside chloroplasts.   [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Seeds of A. thaliana ecotypes Landsberg erecta (Ler) and Columbia (Col) and the arc11 mutant (CITATION) (Ler background, Ohio State University, USA) were surface-sterilized with 70% (v/v) ethanol and 1% (w/v) sodium hypochlorite, 0.2% (v/v) Tween-20, and sown on 0.8% (w/v) agar-containing Murashige-Skoog (MS) medium (Wako Jun-yaku, Japan) supplemented with Gamborg's B5 vitamins (Wako Jun-yaku) and 1% (w/v) sucrose. Seeds of Nicotiana tabacum cultivar bright yellow 4 were also surface-sterilized and sown on MS agar medium supplemented with B5 vitamins and 3% (w/v) sucrose. Plants were grown in plant growth incubators at 22°C for Arabidopsis and 28°C for tobacco under continuous white light illumination (100 μE/m2second). Whole plant seedlings or organs were mounted under glass coverslips, and observed using confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) (TCS-NT, Leica Microsystems, Germany) (CITATION) or epifluorescence microscopy (TE2000, Nikon, Japan, equipped with a Hamamatsu ORCA-ER; IX70, Olympus, Japan, equipped with an Olympus DP50-C). Digital images were imported into the RGB channels of Adobe Photoshop ver. 6.0 (Adobe Systems, USA). Total DNA from Col, Ler and arc11 was extracted using the DNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen, Germany). The genomic copy of AtMinD1 was PCR amplified using PfuTurbo DNA polymerase (Stratagene, USA) and the oligonucleotide primers, MDF 5′-ACGCTCAGAAACATTTCTGTC-3′ and MDR 5′-CGTTCGGTTCGGTTCGATC-3′. The PCR product (1.1 kb) was subjected to direct DNA sequencing. The Monsanto Arabidopsis Landsberg Sequence (http://www.arabidopsis.org/) was utilized to compare AtMinD1 sequences between ecotypes. Wild-type AtMinD1 was expressed, fused to the N-terminus of a double influenza hemagglutinin (dHA)-epitope tag, under the control of the AtMinD1 upstream genomic promoter region. Two complementary oligonucleotide primers, for a dHA epitope (YPYDVPDYAGYPYDVPDYAG), were annealed and introduced into the BamHI site of pBluescript II SK+ (Stratagene, USA) to yield pSK-HA. A 1.9 kb Col genomic DNA fragment, amplified by PCR with MD-HindIII 5′-GGAAGCTTTGGATATCTTGATC-3′ (restriction site underlined) and MD3 5′-ATGGATCCGCCAAAGAAAGAGAAGAAGC-3′, was digested with BamHI and HindIII and ligated into pSK-HA to yield pMD-HA. A 1.9 kb HindIII-SacI fragment of pMD-HA, comprising a 0.9 kb upstream genomic region of AtMinD1, the AtMinD1 ORF and a dHA-coding sequence, was introduced into the pBI-Hyg/35S-NosT vector (CITATION) by simultaneously removing the CaMV35S promoter to yield pBIH-MD-HA. pBIH-MD-HA was employed for Agrobacterium-mediated Arabidopsis transformation by the floral dip method (CITATION; CITATION). A total of 55 transformed (T1) seedlings were selected on MS plates containing hygromycin (25 μg/l, Boehringer Mannheim, Germany), and T2 to T4 progenies were used for microscopic characterizations. Stable T4 seedlings, grown on antibiotic-free MS plates were subjected to quantitative RT-PCR analysis. Real-time RT-PCR was employed to quantify transcript levels of AtMinD1 in Ler, arc11 and transgenic plants (CITATION). Total RNA was extracted from 15-day-old seedlings using the guanidine-hydrochloride method, and complementary DNAs (cDNAs) were synthesized from DNase I-treated RNA with random primers using the Super Script First-strand Synthesis System (Invitrogen Life Technologies, USA) (CITATION). Quantitative RT-PCR was performed with a model 7700 sequence detector and a TaqMan Universal PCR Master Mix (Applied Biosystems, USA). Total AtMinD1 transcripts were monitored using AtMinD1-specific PCR primers, MD-FOR 5′-AGAGAGAGACCGACATTTGCG-3′ and MD-REV 5′-CGCGTATCGTCGTTATCACCT-3′, and a TaqMan probe MD-TAQ 5′-FAM (6-carboxyfluorescein)-TCGTCTTTCCAACACCGCCTTTTCCTAMRA-3′ (6-carboxytetramethylrhodamine), and endogenous AtMinD1 transcripts were monitored using AtMinD1 mRNA 3′-untranslated region (UTR)-specific primers MD-FOR2 5′-TCCTAGGACAATGTGGAATTCTACTG-3′ and MD-REV2 5′-CAGAAATCAAGAACCTCAAGAACAAA-3′, and a TaqMan probe MD-TAQ2 5′-FAMTGTTGCTGAGTTCAAGCTCTGATTCTTATGCCTAMRA-3′. The 18S ribosomal RNA was employed as an internal control. The entire coding sequence of AtMinD1 was amplified by PCR from arc11 genomic DNA with MD-XbaI 5′-ATTTCTAGATCTGTGGAGACAGCTGAAG-3′ and MD-SacI 5′-TCCGAGCTCCATTTAGCCGCCAAAGAA-3′. A 1.0 kb PCR product was digested with XbaI and SacI and introduced into pBI-Hyg/35S-NosT under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S (CaMV35S) promoter to yield pBIH-arc11. pBIH-arc11 was employed for Agrobacterium-mediated Arabidopsis transformation. A total of 20 T1 seedlings were selected on MS plates containing kanamycin (50 μg/l, Nacalai Tesque, Japan) or hygromycin (25 μg/l, Boehringer). Hypocotyls and primary leaves of T2 and T3 seedlings were used for microscopic characterizations. Stable T3 seedlings were subjected to RT-PCR analysis. Full-length AtMinD1 and AtMinD1(A296G) proteins were transiently expressed as green fluorescent protein (GFP) or yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) fusions in planta. pGFP2/AtMinD1 was used as an original vector (CITATION). To construct pGFP2/AtMinD1(A296G), the entire coding region of AtMinD1(A296G) was amplified with MIN/1 and MIN/5 (CITATION), digested with XhoI and KpnI, and ligated into pGFP2 (CITATION). Expression vectors for YFP fusion proteins were made from the GFP expression vectors, by replacing the GFP coding sequence with that of YFP (EYFP, Clontech). To verify the N-terminal extensions of AtMinD1 for a chloroplast targeting transit peptide, the 64 amino acid-coding sequence of AtMinD1 was amplified by PCR using MD-SalI (CITATION) and MD-NcoI3 5′-TTCCCATGGTGATAACGACGATACG-3′. The PCR product was digested with SalI and NcoI and ligated into the CaMV35S-sGFP(S65T)-NOS (CITATION). The expression vectors were introduced into young tobacco leaf cells by particle bombardment. Over 30 cells were analyzed by epifluorescence microscopy using a Nikon TE2000. Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain AH109 (MATa, trp1-901, leu2-3, 112, ura3-52, his3-200, gal4Δ, gal80Δ, LYS2::GAL1UAS-GAL1TATA-HIS3, GAL2UAS-GAL2TATA-ADE2, URA3::MEL1UAS-MEL1TATA-lacZ, MEL1) and plasmids pGADT7 and pGBKT7 encoding the Gal4 activation domain and the Gal4 DNA binding domain, respectively, were derived from MATCHMAKER Two-Hybrid System ver. 3 (Clontech Laboratories, USA). Full-length coding sequences of AtMinD1 and AtMinD1(A296G) were PCR amplified using MIND/5 5′-TACATATGGCGTCTCTGAGATTGTTC-3′ and MIND/7 5′-ATGGATCCTTAGCCGCCAAAGAAAGAGAAGAAGCC-3′, digested with NdeI and BamHI, and ligated into pGADT7 or pGBKT7. Yeast AH109 was cotransformed with pGADT7- and pGBKT7-derived constructs by electroporation. pGADT7-Rec and SV40 Large-T antigen PCR fragment and pGBKT7-53 (Clontech), and pGADT7 and pGBKT7 empty vectors, were also cotransformed as a positive and a negative control, respectively. A pGADT7-derived vector containing an Arabidopsis cDNA, which was isolated as a candidate for an AtMinD1 interacting protein in the two-hybrid screen (M.T.F. and S.G.M., unpublished), was cotransformed with pGBKT7-AtMinD1 as a weak positive control. Transformants were selected on yeast dropout (SD) media plates lacking leucine (Leu) and tryptophan (Trp) (Clontech), and fresh colonies were then streaked on SD plates lacking Leu, Trp and histidine (His). Cells were cultured on plates for 4 to 9 days at 26-30°C. Yeast growth was classified into four classes based on histidine auxotrophy from three independent experiments: +++, positive growth distinguished 2 days after culture; ++, 3 days; +, 5-6 days; –, normal background growth. Expression vectors for AtMinD1-CFP (cyan fluorescent protein) and AtMinD1-YFP were constructed from pGFP2/AtMinD1, by replacing the GFP coding sequence with those of CFP (ECFP, Clontech) and YFP (EYFP, Clontech), respectively. For single and dual expression of AtMinD1-CFP and/or AtMinD1-YFP, plasmid DNA was introduced into tobacco leaf cells by particle bombardment as described above. FRET assays between fluorophores, CFP (donor) and YFP (acceptor), were performed with a Nikon TE2000, a Hamamatsu ORCA-ER cooled CCD camera and the OpenLab (Improvision, Coventry, UK) system software using 60× N.A. 1.4 objective lens (Nikon) and filters for CFP (exciter S436/10, emitter S470/30) and YFP (exciter HQ500/20, emitter S535/30) (Chroma Technologies, USA). For the acceptor photobleaching experiment, YFP was bleached by continuous illumination of excitation at the maximal strength for 20 seconds.
