!~ABS~! Leaf shape is determined by polar cell expansion and polar cell proliferation along the leaf axes. However, the genes controlling polar cell proliferation during leaf morphogenesis are largely unknown. We identified a dominant mutant of Arabidopsis thaliana, rotundifolia4-1D (rot4-1D), which possessed short leaves and floral organs. We showed that the altered leaf shape is caused by reduced cell proliferation, specifically in the longitudinal (proximal–distal) axis of the leaf, suggesting that the ROT4 gene controls polar cell proliferation in lateral organs. The ROT4 open-reading frame (ORF) encodes a novel small peptide that had not been identified in the Arabidopsis genome annotation. Overexpression of a ROT4–green fluorescence protein (GFP) fusion protein in transgenic plants recapitulated the rot4 phenotype, suggesting that ROT4 acts to restrict cell proliferation. The ROT4–GFP fusion protein localized to the plasma membrane when expressed in transgenic Arabidopsis plants. Phylogenetic analysis indicates that ROT4 defines a novel seed plant-specific family of small peptides with 22 members in Arabidopsis, ROT FOUR LIKE1–22 (RTFL1–22). All RTFL members share a conserved 29-amino acid domain, the RTF domain, and overexpression of the ROT4 RTF domain alone is sufficient to confer a rot4-1D phenotype. Loss-of-function mutations in several RTFL genes were aphenotypic, suggesting that there may be some functional redundancy between family members. Analyses by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and in situ hybridization revealed that ROT4 is expressed in the shoot apex and young leaves of wild-type plants, consistent with a role for ROT4 in controlling polarity-dependent cell proliferation during wild-type leaf morphogenesis.
!~RES~! An insertional mutagenesis was performed by transforming plants with the T-DNA-containing plasmid pSKI015. Insertion of this T-DNA in intergenic regions frequently results in gain-of-function mutations that increase expression of flanking genes (CITATION). Seeds were harvested from 2000 individual primary transformants (T1 generation), and the resulting T2 families were screened for mutations affecting leaf morphology. One family segregated for a novel short-leaf phenotype in a ratio (61 mutants:18 wild type) consistent with the presence of a single dominant mutation. Because the mutagenesis was performed in a Landsberg erecta (er) background that also carried the weak curly leaf (clf) allele, clf-9 (CITATION), the mutation was introduced into an ER+CLF+ background by crossing three times to plants of Columbia ecotype. A similar dominant mutant phenotype was observed to segregate, indicating that the phenotype was independent of the ER or CLF genes. The mutation was designated rot4-1D, and all subsequent morphological analyses involved comparison of rot4-1D and wild-type sibs in the introgressed Columbia background. The leaf blade of rot4-1D was short and rounded (Figure 1a). The reductions in leaf blade and petiole length in rot4-1D were more severe than those in leaf blade width (Figures 1b and 2a). In addition, the reduction in leaf blade length was more pronounced in leaves formed at later developmental stages (Figures 1b and 2a). In addition to the effects on leaf blade and petiole, rot4-1D floral organs and inflorescence stems were also shorter than those of wild type (Figures 1c,d and 2a). By contrast, there were no significant differences in morphological features between wild-type and rot4-1D roots (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To test whether the reduced leaf length in rot4-1D was because of a decrease in cell number or size, or both, the numbers and sizes of the palisade cells in the first, third, and fifth rosette leaves were measured. The leaf blades of rot4-1D had fewer cells than that of the wild type, and, as in the case of the leaf blade length, this was more evident in the leaves formed at later developmental stages (Figure 2b). To relate the decrease in the cell number to the effect of rot4-1D on leaf shape (Figure 2a), the palisade cell numbers in both the leaf-length and leaf-width directions were counted. Again, the number of palisade cells in the leaf-length direction in rot4-1D decreased in a similar fashion to the decrease in total cell number in the subepidermal layer (Figure 2c). However, the cell numbers along the leaf-width direction in rot4-1D were not significantly different at any of the developmental stages examined (Figure 2c). In addition, the palisade cell sizes in bottom, middle, and top portions of first and third leaves in rot4-1D were comparable to the corresponding wild-type leaves and portions (Figures 1e and 2d). Although the cell size in the bottom portion of the fifth leaf in rot4-1D was smaller than that of wild type (Figure 2d), this might be because of a retardation in fifth leaf expansion as rot4-1D plants grow slightly slower than wild type. Cells in older leaves of rot4-1D expanded to a similar extent to wild-type cells. Taken together, these results suggest that the main effect of the rot4-1D mutation is a decrease in cell proliferation along the leaf-length direction. The measurements of cell size and cell number do not account for the decrease in leaf width (Figure 2a). This discrepancy could be attributable to the combined effect of subtle decreases in the cell number in the leaf-width direction and cell size in rot4-1D. In fifth leaves, wild type and rot4-1D were indistinguishable with respect to the sizes and the shapes of palisade, sponge, and epidermal cells, when transverse sections were examined (data not shown). We also characterized cells in the leaf margins, as epidermal cells in the leaf margins make only longitudinal divisions in tobacco at least (CITATION). As elsewhere, the length of the cells did not differ significantly between wild type and rot4-1D (123.1 ± 40.0 µm for wild type versus 120.3 ± 27.0 µm for rot4-1D) in the first set of foliage leaves (n = 16 for wild type and 17 for rot4-1D). As the length of the leaf margin is significantly decreased in the rot4-1D mutant (Figures 1a and 2), these data indicate that longitudinal cell division also in the margin of the leaves is severely decreased in the mutant. Taken together, cell proliferation in all regions of the leaf blade is decreased by the overexpression of ROT4. Southern blot analysis of the original T2 population that segregated rot4-1D indicated that a single T-DNA insertion was present (data not shown). To test whether this insertion might cause rot4-1D mutation, we analyzed the genetic linkage of the mutant phenotype with a herbicide (bialaphos)-resistance marker carried on the T-DNA. All 68 mutants in the original T2 family were resistant, whereas the 18 wild-type plants were herbicide-sensitive, consistent with the insertion being responsible for the rot4-1D mutation. To identify the affected gene, the DNA flanking the T-DNA insertion was isolated by plasmid rescue (see Experimental procedures). Sequence analysis indicated that the insertion was in an intergenic region on chromosome II between the genes At2g36980 and At2g36990 (Figure 3a). However, when the mRNA levels of these genes were determined by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), expression levels were similar in rot4-1D and wild-type plants (data not shown), suggesting that neither gene was likely to be responsible for the rot4-1D phenotype. Because the interval between these two genes was relatively long (about 4.5 kbp), we searched the region for potential open-reading frames (ORFs). A tblastx search was performed using the genomic DNA sequence between the stop codon of At2g36980 and the stop codon of At2g36990 as a query, and several cDNA sequences from A. thaliana and other plant species were retrieved. Although none of them perfectly matched the query genomic sequence, on the basis of the alignments and conceptual translations, a small potential ORF, which encodes 53-amino acid residues, was identified (Figure 3a,b). The ORF was located within 1 kbp from the right border of the T-DNA insert. Because pSKI015 T-DNA insertions generally affect expression of genes adjacent to the T-DNA right border, which carries cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S enhancers (CITATION), it seemed likely that increased expression of this ORF was the basis of the dominant rot4-1D phenotype. [[FIGURE]] To test whether this small ORF was expressed in wild type, RT-PCR was carried out. As shown in Figure 3(c), a cDNA band of the expected size was amplified. In addition, this mRNA accumulated at a higher level in rot4-1D than in wild type (Figure 3c). Because these results strongly suggested that ROT4 encodes this small ORF, its full-length sequence was determined by 5′ rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) PCR (GenBank Accession number AB107209). To confirm that this gene corresponded to ROT4, we tested whether the rot4-1D phenotype was reconstituted when wild-type plants were transformed with a construct that placed the candidate gene fused with green fluorescence protein (GFP) under control of the CaMV 35S promoter (35S::ROT4-GFP). Foliage leaves of homozygous T3 plants from three independent transformants were shorter than those of wild type, as was seen in rot4-1D (Figure 3d), confirming that the candidate gene corresponded to ROT4. The ROT4 expression pattern was examined in various organs of wild-type plants by RT-PCR analysis using ROT4-specific primer sets. Although ROT4 was strongly expressed in flowers and flower buds, the accumulation of ROT4 mRNA was not detected in mature rosette leaves (Figure 4a). In young seedlings, however, the expression of ROT4 was clearly detected in shoots (Figure 4b). We next characterized the ROT4 expression level in shoots of seedling at different developmental stages. After stratification, plants were incubated under dark condition for 2 days, and were then grown in light for several days. The ROT4 expression level in shoots of seedlings was highest at 6 days after the shift to light (Figure 4c). Using plants at this stage, the organ-specificity of ROT4 expression was analyzed. The shoots of seedlings were dissected into the fully expanded cotyledons, the primordia of the first pair of foliage leaves, and shoot apices, which included the shoot apical meristem and younger leaf primordia. The ROT4 expression was highest in the shoot apices and somewhat reduced in the leaf primordia (Figure 4d). Expression in the mature cotyledons was extremely low. These results confirmed that ROT4 is expressed in wild-type leaves during early developmental stages. To localize the ROT4 transcript more precisely, digoxigenin-labeled probes were hybridized in situ to sections of wild-type and rot4-1D plants. The probes were synthesized from a short 143 bp region of ROT4 that lacked similarity with any other sequences in the Arabidopsis genome. However, we were unable to detect any signal when wild-type materials were probed with the ROT4 antisense probe, other than a very low background signal that was also seen when a ROT4 sense probe was used as a control (data not shown). As a further control, we also hybridized probes for the AGAMOUS (AG) gene to wild-type inflorescence sections. The characteristic AG expression pattern was seen (Figure 4e), confirming that the experimental sensitivity was adequate for detecting tissue-specific accumulation of transcripts. The sensitivity may have been lower for ROT4, because the probe necessarily derived from a much shorter region. In the case of AG, the probe was synthesized from a 1-kbp region of the AG transcript, then hydrolyzed into fragments with an average length of 150 bp. Consequently, there are about seven times as many probe-binding sites in the AG transcript as there is in the much shorter ROT4 transcript. [[FIGURE]] When the ROT4 antisense probe was hybridized to rot4-1D materials, unlike wild type, a strong signal was consistently observed (Figure 4f–l). This agreed with the RT-PCR results, which also indicated higher expression in the rot4-1D mutant than in wild type. In seedlings, there was little expression in the shoot apical meristem (Figure 4f), whereas young leaf primordia showed expression throughout the lamina of young leaf primordia (Figure 4f,g). In cotyledons and older leaves, expression was restricted to vasculature (Figure 4f,g). The expression pattern in inflorescences was complex. At stages 1 and 2 of early flower development, ROT4 was present in the center of the floral meristem, in the L3, and underlying cells. A weak signal was detected in the inflorescence meristem in the region where a floral meristem was about to initiate (Figure 4h). In stage 5 floral buds, faint expression occurred in the center of the floral meristem and also in the sepals (Figure 4i). In stage 7 flowers, strong expression was observed in the sepals and in the center of the developing stamens (Figure 4j). In stage 9 flowers, ROT4 was expressed throughout the petals, and in all other floral organs, most strongly over the vasculature (Figure 4k). At later stages of flower development, a strong signal was restricted to the vasculature of the floral organs (Figure 4l); expression was also detected in the vasculature of the stem (not shown). The expression of ROT4 was generally consistent with extensive expression during early lateral organ formation, resolving to vascular-specific expression later in development. The analysis of other mutants generated by activation tagging has shown that the genes disrupted usually show greatly elevated levels of expression, but maintain their normal pattern of expression (CITATION). Because the rot4-1D mutant shows localized expression of ROT4, broadly consistent with the pattern in wild-type seedlings as crudely discerned in RT-PCR experiments, it is likely that the rot4-1D mutant also confers elevated expression of ROT4 in its normal pattern rather than ectopic expression. To determine the intracellular localization of the ROT4 protein, we examined young leaves of 35S::ROT4–GFP transgenic Arabidopsis plants using confocal microscopy. As shown in Figure 5(a,b), GFP signal was localized at the periphery of both palisade and epidermal cells in the transgenic Arabidopsis plants. The same localization was observed also in onion epidermal cells that were bombarded with the 35S::ROT4–GFP transgene (Figure 5d). To determine whether the ROT4–GFP fusion was localized in the plasma membrane or in the cell walls, plasmolysis was induced with 0.8 m mannitol. ROT4–GFP localized with the shrunken plasma membrane, indicating that it was present in the plasma membrane and not in the cell wall (Figure 5c,d). Thus, unlike the 35S::GFP control plants, in which the GFP fluorescence was mainly cytosolic (Figure 5e), the ROT4–GFP fusion protein was localized to the plasma membrane. [[FIGURE]] Overexpression of ANT extends the period of CycD3 expression in leaves and eventually leads to the formation of large leaves (CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, we expected that expression of some cell-cycle-related genes might be altered in rot4-1D. To identify genes whose expression level was altered in rot4-1D mutants, a microarray analysis was carried out. Although cell proliferation activity is reduced in rot4-1D, expression levels of genes that control the cell proliferation, such as cell-cycle-related genes, were not detectably altered. Several genes were dramatically upregulated in rot4-1D (Table 1), but the relationship between these genes and cell proliferation is unclear. There were no genes that were downregulated below 10% levels of wild-type gene expression (data not shown).  Genes for which levels of transcripts were at least three times higher in rot4-1D than in wild type (wt) are shown.  Ratio of transcript levels in the rot4-1D mutant to those in wt. Database searches revealed 22 other putative Arabidopsis proteins with similarity to ROT4. These proteins were named ROT FOUR LIKE1–22 (RTFL1–22). Alignment revealed a 29-amino acid region that was conserved between the RTFL members (Figure 6a). The region was rich in basic amino acids, and had not been previously identified in any other proteins of known function. We named the novel region RTF domain. When a phylogenetic tree was produced from the RTF domain, no subclasses were found between the RTFL members (Figure 6b). In other plant species, such as Oryza sativa (O.s.), Glycine max (G.m.), Populus balsamifera (P.b.), etc., there are ESTs that encode RTFL members (O.s., AU182671; G.m., AW458841; P.b., BU880463). These hypothetical proteins were not found in non-seed plants and animals, suggesting that RTFL is a seed plant-specific gene family. [[FIGURE]] To further characterize RTFL function, in particular, the loss of function phenotype, we screened existing collections of insertion mutants in Arabidopis and rice for insertions that disrupted any RTFL member. Such mutations were very rare, presumably because the RTFL genes were extremely small, and we could not identify any insertion at ROT4. However, a mutant that carried a T-DNA insertion within the ORF of RTFL4 was identified within the SIGNAL collection of Arabidopsis T-DNA insertion lines (Figure 7a,c). The mutation is likely to be null because it disrupts the conserved RTFL domain, and was designated as rtfl4-1. Furthermore, we identified two mutants in Oryza (rice) that carried insertions of the Tos17 (transposon of Oryza sativa) transposon within Oryza homologs. These Oryza RTFL members were named OsRTFL1 and OsRTFL2, and encoded proteins sharing 45 and 38% amino acid identity with ROT4 within the RTF domain, respectively (Figure 7b). The two rice mutants, also predicted to be severe loss-of-function alleles, were named osrtfl1-1 and osrtfl2-1, respectively. We identified plants that were homozygous for the various mutant alleles. However, none of the mutants showed any phenotype that we could discern, in terms of either organ shape or any other gross morphological character (Figure 7c,d). These results suggest that there might be functional redundancy between several or all RTFL members, as might be expected as the family comprises more than 20 members with similar protein sequences. [[FIGURE]] Although the RTF domain is conserved between distantly related plant species, the regions outside the RTF domain at the N- and C-terminal ends of the protein are diverged. To investigate the function of the different domains of ROT4, we generated the constructs ROT4ΔN or ROT4ΔC, which expressed modified proteins that lacked either the N-terminal or the C-terminal regions of ROT4, respectively (Figure 6c). The constructs were expressed under control of the CaMV 35S promoter in transgenic Arabidopsis plants. In both cases, the resulting transgenic plants had short rosette leaves similar to those of rot4-1D mutants (Figure 6d). This result suggests that only the conserved RTF domain is required for ROT4 activity. As in rot4-1D plants, which had short siliques, the transgenic plants also had short siliques. This phenotype was less severe for plants expressing ROT4ΔN than for those expressing ROT4ΔC. Interestingly, the siliques of both ROT4ΔN- and ROT4ΔC-overexpressing plants showed changed shape so that they resembled an arrowhead (Figure 6e). A similar phenotype was also reported for plants overexpressing the CYP78A9 gene, which encodes a cytochrome P450 enzyme. In this case, the effects on silique shape were caused by both increased cell proliferation and increased cell enlargement in the carpel valves (CITATION).
!~MM~! The rot4-1D mutant was isolated in a Landsberg er background that also carried the weak clf mutant allele, clf-9 (CITATION). The rot4-1D mutant was crossed to Columbia wild type three times to remove the clf-9 and er alleles, and an identical phenotype was observed, indicating that it was independent of the clf or er background. Because the rot4-1D inflorescence phenotype resembled that of er, the absence of the er mutation was confirmed by a sequence analysis of the ER locus. For analyses of plants, seeds were sown on rock wool. After 24 h at 4°C in darkness, plants were grown under light at 40.4 ± 6.7 µmol m−2 sec−1 at 22°C. Ages of plants were given in terms of days after transfer to 22°C. To observe palisade cells, leaf tissues were cleared with chloral hydrate solution (4 g ml−1 chloral hydrate and 0.4 g ml−1 glycerol) as described elsewhere (CITATION). Individual cell sizes were measured using the imagej 1.29x program (National Institutes of Health; http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/). To clone genomic DNA flanking the T-DNA insertion, plasmid rescue (CITATION) was performed. Genomic DNA was extracted from rot4-1D mutant plants, digested with EcoRI, and ligated overnight under conditions favoring intramolecular ligation. The resulting plasmid, pJG28, contained both pSKI015 and plant genomic DNA sequences with a single EcoRI site. Sequence analysis of pJG28 using a primer designed from pSKI015 sequence indicated the approximate site of the T-DNA insertion. To confirm the precise T-DNA insertion site, the following oligonucleotides were used for PCR amplification using rot4-1D genomic DNA as a template: ROT4RBsite, 5′-AAGCCGTTAGGTTTAGAGGG-3′; T7, 5′-GTAATACGACTCACTATAGGGC-3′. Amplified DNA fragments were sequenced with the ROT4RBsite primer. The full-length cDNA of ROT4 was established by 5′ RACE and 3′ RACE using 5′ RACE System Version 2.0 (Invitrogen Corp., Carlsbad, CA, USA) and 3′ RACE System (Invitrogen Corp.). Total RNAs were prepared from whole mature plants using the RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen Inc., Valencia, CA, USA). The following oligonucleotides were used as gene-specific primers 1 (GSP1) of PCR for 5′ RACE: ROT4-R, 5′-TAATCAAGAGTCTTTGCGGTCG-3′; and as GSP2; 5′ RACE-GSP2, 5′-CGTGCCAGCAAACTAACATG-3′. For 3′ RACE, the following oligonucleotides were used as GSP1 and GSP2: ROT4-F, 5′-ACAAATCAATGGCACCGGAG-3′; 3′ RACE-GSP2, 5′-TGAGCCGTGCAAGACTTTTG-3′. Total RNAs were prepared from whole mature plants as above. The SuperScript one-step RT-PCR Kit (Invitrogen Corp.) was used for RT-PCR according to the manufacturer's protocol. The condition for amplification by RT-PCR was one cycle at 50°C for 15 min and 94°C for 2 min, then 35 cycles at 94°C for 15 sec, 57°C for 30 sec, and 72°C for 60 sec. ROT4-F and ROT4-R were used as primers for RT-PCR. The RT-PCR products were subcloned into pCR2.1 (Invitrogen Corp.) and the resultant vector was named ROT4/pCR2.1. To generate 35S::ROT4–GFP transgenic plants, the binary vector construct ROT4–GFP/pSMAB704 was first made as follows. ROT4 DNA was PCR-amplified from ROT4/pCR2.1 template DNA using the oligonucleotides ROT4-Gly-F (5′-CAATGGCACCGGAGGAGAATG-3′) and ROT4-Gly-R (5′-TTTCCATGGCACCTCCACCTCCACCTCCAGAGTCTTTGCGGTCGTGG-3′) in order to remove the ROT4 stop codon, and to introduce an NcoI site and a glycine linker. The product was subcloned into pCR2.1 to produce ROT4-Gly/pCR2.1. ROT4-Gly/pCR2.1 was digested by EcoRI, blunted using a DNA Blunting Kit (TaKaRa Bio Inc., Otsu, Japan), and then digested with NcoI. The vector pTH2 (CITATION), which carries the GFP gene under control of the CaMV 35S promoter, was digested with SalI, blunted as described above, and then digested with NcoI. These two fragments were ligated to produce ROT-GFP/pTH2. pSMAB704 was digested with HindIII and EcoRI to remove the 35S::β-glucuronidase gene and then ligated to the 35S::ROT4–GFP gene, which was excised from ROT4–GFP/pTH by HindIII and EcoRI digestion. Similarly, plasmid vector constructs ROT4ΔN/pCR2.1 and ROT4ΔC/pCR2.1 were made as follows. ROT4ΔN DNA was PCR-amplified from ROT4/pCR2.1 template DNA using the oligonucleotides ROT4dN-F (5′-ATGACTTTTGGGCAAAAGTGC-3′) and ROT4-R in order to remove the N-terminus region of ROT4 and to add the first methionine codon. ROT4ΔC DNA was PCR-amplified using the oligonucleotides ROT4-F and ROT4dC-R (5′-TCAGTCGTGCCAGCAAACTA-3′) in order to remove the C-terminus region of ROT4 and to add the stop codon. Each DNA fragment was inserted in pCR2.1. The DNA fragment insertion to the binary vector pSMAB704 was performed as described for the case of ROT4–GFP. These constructs were introduced into wild-type plants by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation using the simplified floral dip method (CITATION). Transgenic plants were selected on Murashige and Skoog medium containing 2 mg ml−1 Gellan Gum (Wako, Osaka, Japan), 10 µg ml−1 bialaphos (Shinyo-Sangyo, Tokyo, Japan), and 500 µg ml−1 claforan (Aventis Pharma Ltd, Tokyo, Japan). Reverse transcriptions were carried out using the Super Script II RT and the adapter primer of the 3′ RACE System. For amplification of ROT4 cDNA, ROT4-F and ROT4-R were used. As a control, the following oligonucleotides were used to detect the constitutively expressed ACTIN2 (ACT2) gene (CITATION): ACT2-F, 5′-GAAATCACAGCACTTGCACC-3′; ACT2-R, 5′-AAGCCTTTGATCTTGAGAGC-3′. The condition for amplification by RT-PCR was one cycle at 50°C for 15 min and 94°C for 2 min, then 27 cycles for ROT4 cDNA amplification or 33 cycles for ACT2 cDNA amplification at 94°C for 15 sec, 57°C for 30 sec, and 72°C for 60 sec. A 143-bp fragment from the 5′ end of the ROT4 gene that had no similarity with any other sequence in the Arabidopsis genome was amplified from genomic DNA by PCR using the primers ROT4-F (5′-CTTCCATTTCTTAAGCCTTTTAACTAG-3′) and ROT4-R (5′-CAAAAGTCTTGCACGGCTCACAC-3′). The product was ligated to the vector pGEM-Teasy (Sigma–Aldrich Company Ltd., Dorset, UK) to produce the clones pJG38 and pJG39, which contained the ROT4 insert in opposite orientations relative to the T7 promoter. Sense and antisense probes were synthesized using T7 RNA polymerase, and pJG39 or pJG38 templates were linearized with SalI, respectively. AG antisense probes were prepared from a pCIT565 template as described previously by CITATION). Digoxigenin-labeled probes were prepared as described by CITATION). The methods for tissue fixation, probe hybridization, and detection were as described by CITATION). For seedlings, plants were grown under short days and harvested after 12 days, at which stage the seedlings had two visible leaves. Inflorescences were harvested from plants grown under long days when the first flowers had opened. Tissue sections were counterstained for 5 min in 0.1% Tinopal UNPA-GX fluorescent brightener (Sigma–Aldrich Company Ltd.) dissolved in dilute NaOH, rinsed briefly in 10 mm Tris (pH 8.0), and mounted in Entellan (BDH Merck Chemicals Ltd., Dorset, UK). The sections were observed under combined light field and UV epifluorescent illumination. The ROT–GFP/pTH2 construct was introduced into Arabidopsis plants by floral dip transformation as above. The GFP fluorescence was observed under a confocal laser scanning microscope, TCS SP2 (Leica, Wetzlar, Germany). To carry out a plasmolysis experiment, epidermal peel was immersed in 0.8 m mannitol solution for 2 h. Total RNAs were prepared from 25-day-old plants using RNeasy Plant Mini Kit. Gene chip ATH1 (Affymetrix, Santa Clara, CA, USA) was used as the probe array DNA for microarray analysis according to the manufacturer's protocol. DNA sequences, which are similar to ROT4, were obtained by tblastn searches at National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/BLAST/). The deduced amino acid sequences of the conserved region of ROT4 and the retrieved DNA sequences were aligned using the clustalw program (CITATION), and alignments were refined manually. For construction of a maximum-likelihood (ML) tree, a neighbor-joining (NJ) tree as the start tree was used for a local re-arrangement search. Then, the njdist and protml programs were used in MOLPHY Version 2.3b3 package (http://www.ism.ac.jp/software/ismlib/softother.html; CITATION). The NJ tree was obtained with njdist and the ML tree was obtained with protml. The local bootstrap probability of each branch was estimated using the protml program (CITATION; CITATION). To find knockout mutants of Arabidopsis and rice for the cording region of RTFL members, BLASTN searches were performed at TAIR BLAST (http://www.arabidopsis.org/Blast/) or Mutant panel (http://tos.nias.affrc.go.jp/miyao/pub/tos17/). In Arabidopsis, only one mutant that had an insertion of T-DNA in the coding region of a RTFL family member was found in the SALK T-DNA insertion collection, namely accession SALK_089234, which carries an insertion in RTFL4. In O. sativa L., two mutants with a Tos17 transposon insertion in the cording region of RTFL4 were found from the rice insertion mutant database (CITATION), and these RTFL members were named OsRTFL1 and OsRTFL2, respectively. These candidate knockout mutant populations were kindly supplied by the Ohio Arabidopsis Stock Center (USA) and the Rice Genome Resource Center (NIAS, Japan). Each homozygous mutant was identified by PCR analysis of genomic DNA. To identify homozygotes for the T-DNA insertion in RTFL4, the following oligonucleotides were used: RTFL4-P, 5′-GTTCGTTCACCCAATGGCTC-3′; RTFL4-N, 5′-TGTTTGTGCCAGCAAACGAG-3′; and LBb1, 5′-GCGTGGACCGCTTGCTGCAACT-3′. The primer pair of RTFL4-P and LBb1 specifically amplifies DNA from the insertion allele, whereas the primer pair of RTFL4-P and RTFL4-N was used for identification of the non-insertional allele. Similarly, to identify homozygotes for Tos17 transposon insertions in the OsRTFL1 and OsRTFL2 genes, the following oligonucleotides were used: OSRTFL1-F, 5′-GCCTATGGTTTGGCATTG-3′; OSRTFL1-R, 5′-GCGCCTCGTCGTCGACGT-3′; OSRTFL2-F, 5′-ATGGCATATCCCCTCCTGT-3′; and OSRTFL2-R, 5′-TCGCTCCAGCGGAGCAACA-3′.
