!~ABS~! Root apical meristem (RAM) and shoot apical meristem (SAM) are vital for the correct development of the plant. The direction, frequency, and timing of cell division must be tightly controlled in meristems. Here, we isolated new Arabidopsis mutants with shorter roots and fasciated stems. In the tonsoku (tsk) mutant, disorganized RAM and SAM formation resulted from the frequent loss of proper alignment of the cell division plane. Irregular cell division also occurred in the tsk embryo, and the size of cells in meristems and embryo in tsk mutant was larger than in the wild type. In the enlarged SAM of the tsk mutant, multiple centers of cells expressing WUSCHEL (WUS) were observed. In addition, expression of SCARECROW (SCR) in the quiescent center (QC) disappeared in the disorganized RAM of tsk mutant. These results suggest that disorganized cell arrangements in the tsk mutants result in disturbed positional information required for the determination of cell identity. The TSK gene was found to encode a protein with 1311 amino acids that possesses two types of protein–protein interaction motif, leucine–glycine–asparagine (LGN) repeats and leucine-rich repeats (LRRs). LGN repeats are present in animal proteins involved in asymmetric cell division, suggesting the possible involvement of TSK in cytokinesis. On the other hand, the localization of the TSK–GFP (green fluorescent protein) fusion protein in nuclei of tobacco BY-2 cells and phenotypic similarity of tsk mutants to other fasciated mutants suggest that the tsk mutation may cause disorganized cell arrangements through defects in genome maintenance.
!~RES~! A number of previously isolated Arabidopsis mutants with short roots showed defects in the structure of their RAM (CITATION). To identify the key genes involved in the organization and function of the RAM, we screened for short root mutants of Arabidopsis from several different T-DNA tag-line libraries, including T-DNA tag lines from Dr K. Feldmann's laboratory (CITATION) and the activation T-DNA tag lines constructed in our laboratory. Among the short root mutants isolated, two lines exhibited similar characteristic phenotypes other than short roots. In particular, both lines possessed severely fasciated stems. Genetic analysis of these mutants showed that both the short root and fasciated stem phenotypes resulted from a single recessive Mendelian mutation that was tagged by T-DNA. This mutation was mapped on chromosome 3 between the nga162 and 32C9 markers, where no mutation with a similar phenotype has been previously mapped. Later studies indicated that these mutants were alleles of the same gene (see below), and they were designated as tsk-1 and tsk-2. Another allele, tsk-3, with a T-DNA insertion in the TSK gene, was identified by PCR screening of the T-DNA mutant collection from the Kazusa DNA Institute (Kazusa, Chiba, Japan) with specific primers for TSK and T-DNA. The fourth allele, tsk-4, was isolated by further screening the T-DNA activation tag-line library from our laboratory. The four tsk mutants possessed similar phenotypes, such as short root development (Figure 1a–f), even though they were derived from different ecotypes: tsk-1 from Wassilewskija (Ws) background and tsk-2, tsk-3, and tsk-4 from Columbia (Col) background. In most of the following analyses, the tsk-1 mutant was used. The primary roots of the tsk-1 mutant were about half the length of the wild-type plants (Figure 1g). On the other hand, the diameter of primary roots and the length of fully elongated root epidermal cells (Figure 1h) were indistinguishable between the wild-type and tsk mutant plants. The root tips of tsk mutants were occasionally split across (Figure 1i), forming a cleft that is similar in shape to the cloven hoof of a pig (tonsoku in Japanese). These results suggest that the short root phenotype of tsk mutants is a result of decreased cell division in the root tip because of defects in the structure and function of the RAM. [[FIGURE]] The structure of the RAM and the development of the primary root of Arabidopsis are well characterized (CITATION). The RAM of Arabidopsis contains four rarely dividing QC cells that are surrounded by actively dividing initial cells. Each initial cell divides in the same plane and provides new cells to each cell file. The root tips of the wild type and tsk-1 mutants were stained with propidium iodide (PI) and were observed by confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM). The root tip of the wild-type plants was visible as organized files of cells regular in size and shape, where the QC cells were easily discernible (Figure 2a). In contrast, the root tip of tsk-1 mutants was visible as a disturbed organization of cells irregular in size and shape, where the QC cells were not easily discernible (Figure 2b,c). Irregular planes of cell division that were observed in various cell files (insets in Figure 2b,c) seem to explain, at least in part, the disturbed organization of cells in root tips of tsk mutants. In addition to the irregular cell shape, the size of cells in RAM of tsk-1 mutant was larger than that of the wild-type plant, although it might be the result of reduced cell division. Irregular planes of cell division were more clearly observed in epidermal cell files (Figure 2d–f). In the wild-type plant, all cell division planes were organized in a grid-like structure (Figure 2d). However, the tsk-1 mutant showed an oblique cell division plane, and occasionally two cell files were assembled into one cell file (arrowheads in Figure 2e,f and arrows in Figure 2e, respectively), indicating that irregular cell division frequently occurs in the meristems of tsk mutants. [[FIGURE]] The root tip of the wild-type plant showed four layers of columella root cap cells that accumulated well-developed starch granules (Figure 2g). These columella cells are generated by asymmetric cell division of columella initials (CITATION). The root tip of the tsk-1 mutant usually contained a larger number of columella cells that were arranged irregularly (Figure 2h), or sometimes contained fewer columella cells with less starch granules (Figure 2i). It is suggested that tsk mutants are unable to align the cell division plane, or are defective in asymmetric division of QC or initial cells that will eventually affect the number and arrangement of columella cells. The disordered columella root cap layers in tsk mutants suggest the asynchronous division of columella initial cells. The reduced number of starch granules in some tsk mutant plants might originate from a defect in differentiation of columella cells. In Arabidopsis roots, the SCR gene is expressed in endodermal and QC cells (CITATION). tsk-1 mutants were crossed with a transgenic line expressing GFP (green fluorescent protein) under the SCR promoter (SCR:GFP; CITATION), and the F2 progenies that segregated for normal and short root length were obtained. In F2 progenies with normal root length, GFP was expressed specifically in a single cell layer of endodermal cells, as well as in the cortex/endodermis initials and QC cells that were continuous to the endodermal layer (Figure 2j) as reported previously by CITATION). Although SCR:GFP was also expressed in endodermal cell layers in tsk-1 roots, the cell files expressing GFP were not continuous in the root tip (Figure 2k–m). Unlike the wild-type plants, the cortex/endodermis initials and QC cells expressing GFP were hardly discernible in the root tip of tsk-1 mutant. The expression of SCR:GFP in tsk mutants often occurred in two cell layers adjacent to each other (arrowheads in Figure 2k–m). In Figure 2(m), the expression of SCR:GFP appeared to move from one cell file to a more peripheral cell file as indicated by the arrowhead. It is interesting to note that abnormal planes of cell division were often observed in the region where GFP expression in the cell file was disrupted (insets in Figure 2k–m). The disorganized cell arrangement at the dividing zone of roots of tsk mutants might disturb the proper cell–cell communication required for SCR expression (see Discussion). Expression of GUS activity of QC46, a QC-specific promoter trap line (CITATION), in roots of the wild-type and tsk-1 mutant plants, was examined. GUS staining in the roots of the wild-type plants was observed in a restricted area of the root tip, represented by the QC cells (Figure 2n). In contrast, GUS expression in the root tips of the tsk-1 mutant occurred within a substantially broader area compared to the wild-type plants (Figure 2o). The broadened area of GUS expression suggests that a larger number of cells in the root tips of the tsk mutants retain at least a partial QC identity. The restriction of expression of SCR:GFP in the root tip of the tsk mutants (Figure 2k–m) appeared to coincide with the observed broadened area of QC46 expression. The tsk mutants showed fasciated stems, and the cross-section of stem of the wild-type (Figure 3a) and tsk-1 mutant (Figure 3b) plants suggested that the fasciated stem of tsk-1 mutant was composed of fused stems. Spiral phyllotaxy of leaves with an angle of about 140° in the wild-type plants (Figure 3c) was often disordered in tsk-1 mutant plants (Figure 3d). Moreover, rosettes of tsk-1 mutants often developed from more than one center (arrows in Figure 3d). The tsk mutants developed flowers with a reduced number of organs and siliques with fewer fertilized seeds compared with those of the wild-type plants (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] The clv and fas mutants with fasciated stem contain expanded SAM (Clark et al., 1993, 1995; CITATION; CITATION). The structure of SAM of the wild-type and tsk-1 mutant plants was examined by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). In contrast to a dome-shaped SAM in the wild-type plant (Figure 3e), the SAM of the tsk-1 mutant was flat and irregular in shape (Figure 3f,g). In addition, the SAM of the tsk-1 mutant often possessed a stack of ectopic layer of cells (arrows in Figure 3f) or a cluster of ectopic cells (arrows in Figure 3g). In the wild-type Arabidopsis, the epidermal cells divide anticlinally, resulting in the formation of a layer of cells. The presence of abnormal cells on the surface of the SAM in the tsk mutant could be because of the periclinal division or abnormal expansion of cells in the L1 layer of the SAM. Phenotypes of aerial parts of tsk mutants, such as fasciated stem and altered phyllotaxy (Figure 3), are likely to be linked with the altered structure and function of the SAM. A number of genes play important roles in the organization of the SAM (CITATION). A mutation in these genes may alter the structure of the SAM and affect subsequent shoot development. Expression patterns of WUS, STM as well as CLV3 genes in the SAM of tsk-1 mutants were compared with those of the wild-type plants by in situ hybridization. In contrast to the typical dome-shaped SAM of the wild-type plants which showed clear layers of cells regular in size and shape (Figure 4a,c,e), the SAM of tsk-1 mutant plants were flat and in many cases larger than those of the wild-type plants (Figure 4b,d,f). Many cells in the SAM of the tsk-1 mutant plants were larger in size and irregular in shape compared to those in the wild-type SAM, and ordered layers of cells were hardly discernible. These results strongly suggest that the SAM of the tsk-1 mutant is defective in the control of regular arrangement of cells. A thin section of the SAM of the tsk-1 mutant occasionally possessed a stack of cells on the surface (arrowheads in Figure 4b,f), which probably correspond to the ectopic cells observed in SEM images (Figure 3f,g). [[FIGURE]] The WUS gene is required for specification of pluripotent stem cells and is expressed in a small region composed of a few cells in the center of the SAM (Figure 4a; CITATION). The SAM of the tsk-1 mutants often exhibited multiple centers of WUS expression (arrows in Figure 4b). In the SAM of previously described mutants with fasciated stems, such as clv (CITATION) and fas (CITATION), broadened expression of WUS was reported. However, each region expressing WUS in the tsk mutant remained restricted to a few cells, although the regions were larger and the cells were arranged irregularly compared to the wild type (Figure 4b). To our knowledge, multiple sites of WUS expression in the SAM have not been previously described, and this observation appears to be characteristic of the tsk mutants. This split expression of WUS suggests that enlarged SAM of the tsk mutant contains several functional centers. CLV3 is expressed in outer cell layers neighboring the sites of WUS expression, and is suggested to negatively regulate WUS expression (CITATION). The altered expression of WUS indicates that expression of CLV3 might also be affected in the SAM of the tsk-1 mutant. Compared with the expression of CLV3 in the SAM of the wild-type plants (Figure 4c), the region of CLV3 expression in the SAM of the tsk-1 mutants was restricted to a narrower area near the L1 layer (Figure 4d). This result appears to support the notion that there are multiple sites of WUS expression. It is possible that a negative feedback loop between WUS and CLV3 (CITATION) persists in the tsk mutants, and that reduced CLV3 expression might contribute to the fasciated stems of tsk mutants through enhanced WUS expression. The STM gene is expressed in the SAM between two leaf primordia, and is required to suppress cell differentiation before new cells are incorporated into developing organs (Figure 4e; CITATION). In the SAM of the tsk-1 mutant, expression of STM was also detected in a broad region between two leaf primordia (Figure 4f), suggesting that cells in the SAM of tsk mutants are kept in an undifferentiated state. During embryogenesis, the direction of cell division is strictly programmed at each cell division (CITATION). As tsk mutants exhibited an irregular cell division plane at their root tips and elsewhere, we examined the structure of the embryos of the tsk mutants. In contrast to the well-characterized embryos of the wild-type plants, many types of abnormal embryos were often observed in the tsk-1 mutant (Figure 5). In the early-globular-stage embryo of the wild type, the inner cells divide parallel to the apical–basal axis (arrowhead in Figure 5a). However, a plane of horizontal cell division was observed at the corresponding position in the tsk-1 embryo (arrowhead in Figure 5b). Some of the tsk-1 embryos at the early globular stage, judging from their size, showed highly disorganized cell alignment (Figure 5c). Many heart-stage embryos of the tsk-1 mutant had an asymmetric (Figure 5e) or misshaped (Figure 5f) appearance compared to the symmetric embryo of wild type (Figure 5d). Cells in the tsk-1 embryos seemed to be larger than those in the wild-type embryos, which is in accordance with the observation in SAM and RAM of the tsk-1 mutants (Figures 2 and 4). These results indicate that abnormal cell division of the tsk mutants occurs from the early stage of embryogenesis. [[FIGURE]] Genetic analysis indicated that the tsk-1 locus was linked to T-DNA. The genomic sequence flanking the T-DNA of the tsk-1 mutant was isolated by plasmid rescue. Determination of the nucleotide sequence of the T-DNA flanking region indicated that T-DNA was inserted within the predicted gene At3g18730 on chromosome 3 (Figure 6a), which is located within a region predicted from the mapping data of tsk-1. The genomic DNA fragment of Col spanning the gene At3g18730 was isolated from a P1 clone MVE11 provided by Arabidopsis Genome Initiative (AGI), and cloned into a Ti binary vector. This genomic fragment contained 1.4 kbp sequence upstream of the translation start site and 0.3 kbp sequence downstream of the translation stop site of the gene At3g18730. Transformation of the tsk-1 mutant with this genomic DNA fragment complemented the tsk phenotypes (data not shown). The tsk-2 and tsk-4 mutations were also tagged with T-DNA, and the T-DNA flanking sequences of these mutants were cloned by inverse PCR. T-DNAs in these mutants were also inserted within At3g18730 at locations different from the insertion site in the tsk-1 mutant (Figure 6a). In addition to these, the tsk-3 mutant was identified by PCR screening (Figure 6a). From these results, we designated the gene at this location as TSK. An extremely long transcript was expected for TSK from AGI prediction, and although a partial EST of TSK was present in the database, we could not detect the TSK transcript by Northern hybridization. RT-PCR, and 5′- and 3′ RACE were used to reconstruct a full-length cDNA for TSK. The nucleotide sequence of the reconstructed TSK cDNA was mostly consistent with the predicted structure of At3g18730 in the database, except that one exon was missing in At3g18730 and the predicted termini of some introns were incorrect. The TSK gene consisted of 18 exons (Figure 6a) and the TSK mRNA was 4143 nucleotides in length (Accession number AB112744). The TSK gene was a single-copy gene in Arabidopsis genome. [[FIGURE]] The TSK gene encodes a polypeptide with 1311 amino acids. Although there was no significant overall homology to known proteins, the amino acid sequence of TSK contained two previously characterized repeat motifs. One of them was C-terminally located leucine-rich repeats (LRRs), which are thought to be involved in protein–protein interactions in various proteins from many organisms (Figure 6b). LRRs in various proteins are classified into six different types based on their repeat structures (CITATION). The LRRs identified in many plant proteins, such as CLV1 and ERECTA, were classified as plant-specific-type LRRs. On the other hand, the LRRs of TSK are most closely similar to a class of LRRs found in proteins, such as RNA1 and Ran GTPase-activating protein (CITATION). The N-terminal part of TSK protein contains four repeats, each comprised of 40 amino acids (Figure 6c). The amino acid sequence of these repeats was similar to the repeated motifs of leucine–glycine–asparagine (LGN) repeats that were first identified in human LGN protein interacting with Giα protein (Figure 6c; CITATION). LGN repeats are also present in PARTNER OF INSCUTEABLE (PINS) of Drosophilla melanogaster involved in asymmetric cell division (Figure 6c; CITATION) and in several other animal proteins in the database. LGN repeats are similar to the tetratricopeptide (TPR) motif, which is found in a variety of proteins (CITATION), and LGN repeats can be classified as a subfamily of the TPR motif. One typical unit of LGN repeats in animal proteins is composed of 40 amino acids, and it contains a characteristic three amino acid sequence (LGN) highly conserved in all repeats (Figure 6c; CITATION; CITATION). Although this LGN sequence was not perfectly conserved among repeats in TSK, other residues conserved among animal LGN repeats were also found in TSK (Figure 6c). In contrast to animal LGN proteins that contain seven LGN repeats, TSK contained only four LGN repeats (Figure 6c). Recently, involvement of LGN repeats of PINS in protein–protein interaction has been reported (CITATION). It is possible that the large molecule of TSK interacts with many proteins through LRRs and LGN repeats, and forms a large protein complex. To analyze the expression pattern of TSK, 1.4 kbp long promoter sequence of TSK gene was fused to a GUS coding sequence, and this fusion gene was introduced into Arabidopsis. Histochemical staining of GUS activities in T2 plants of transgenic lines showed that reporter gene expression was detectable in the shoot apex and root tips in 5-day-old seedlings (Figure 7a,b). At the shoot apex, GUS activity was detected in young leaves and in broad areas between two cotyledons where expression was not restricted to a specific region of the SAM. Although the vascular tissue near the SAM also displayed GUS activity (Figure 7a), vascular tissues in other parts of plants did not show strong activity. In the root, weak GUS staining extended from the RAM to the elongation zone (Figure 7b). The preferential expression of TSK in the shoot apex than in the leaves and stems was also supported by real-time RT-PCR experiments (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] The distribution of TSK mRNA in the shoot apex was analyzed by in situ hybridization. With the antisense probe for TSK, signals were detected throughout the shoot apex, including SAM and leaf primordia (Figure 7d), although signals in leaf primordium were weaker than those in the SAM. Sporadic appearance of signals of TSK mRNA in the SAM (arrowheads in Figure 7d–f) suggests the possibility that TSK expression is associated with a specific phase of the cell cycle. The cellular localization of TSK protein was examined by expression of GFP fusion proteins of TSK in tobacco BY-2 cells. We constructed fusion genes, which encoded for GFP fused at the C-terminus (TSK–GFP) or the N-terminus (GFP–TSK) of TSK under the 35S promoter, and these fusion genes were used to transform BY-2 cells by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Transformed BY-2 cell lines expressing GFP were selected and observed under CLSM. In contrast to GFP (Figure 7g), TSK–GFP (Figure 7h) and GFP–TSK (Figure 7i) fusion proteins were exclusively localized in the nucleus and were not observed in the cytoplasm.
!~MM~! The tsk-1 mutant was identified among T-DNA insertion lines generated by Dr K. Feldmann and colleagues (CITATION), while the tsk-2 and tsk-4 mutants were identified among lines in our T-DNA activation-tagging library. The tsk-3 mutant was identified from the T-DNA mutant collection of the Kazusa DNA Institute by PCR screening. The pair of primers specific to the forth exon of the TSK gene and the T-DNA left border sequence were used. For observation of roots, plants were grown on minimal medium (CITATION) containing 2% sucrose and 1.5% agar. For observation of aerial parts, plants were grown on MS medium (CITATION) containing 2% sucrose and 0.3% gelrite buffered with MES (2-morpholino ethanesulfonicacid monohydrate)–KOH (pH 5.7). All plants were grown with continuous light at 22°C. Propidium iodide staining and imaging of GFP expression were performed as described by CITATION). For histochemical staining of GUS activity, plants were fixed in buffer (0.3% formaldehyde, 10 mm MES (pH 5.6), 0.3 m mannitol) and washed in 50 mm phosphate buffer (pH 7.0). The samples were stained with 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-glucuronide (X-Gluc; 0.5 mg ml−1) in 50 mm sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.0) containing 0.5 mm potassium ferricyanide and potassium ferrocyanide each. For observation of the SAM with SEM, plants were fixed with 3% formaldehyde, 5% acetic acid, and 50% ethanol. The samples were then dehydrated successively each with 50, 60, 70, 85, 95, and 99.5% ethanol, followed by molecular-sieve-dried ethanol and isoamylacetate. The materials were then critical-point-dried in liquid CO2, and coated with gold and palladium to a 5 nm thickness. The materials were observed under SEM (XL30; Philips Electron Optics, Tokyo, Japan). In situ hybridization was performed as described by CITATION) and CITATION). The cDNA probes for STM and WUS were kind gifts from Drs H. Tanaka and Y. Machida of the Graduate School of Science, Nagoya University, Japan. The CLV3 cDNA was a kind gift from Y. Watanabe and Dr S. Ishiguro of the Graduate School of Science, Kyoto University, Japan. As a probe for TSK mRNA, 1511 bp long RT-PCR fragment amplified with primers 5′-TGCTCTGAACTGACTCAGAAGG-3′ and 5′-GTGAGAACAGGAGTCTAAAGC-3′, corresponding to part of TSK mRNA, was cloned into pBluescript. DNA isolated from tsk-1 plants was digested with NdeI, then it was self-ligated. The ligated DNA was introduced into Escherichia coli, and amplicilin-resistant colonies were recovered. Some of the cloned plasmids were sequenced and were found to contain Arabidopsis DNA sequence. DNA isolated from tsk-2 and tsk-4 plants were digested with BglII and HindIII, respectively, then they were used as template for inverse PCR. The nucleotide sequence of full-length TSK cDNA was determined by aligning the sequence of overlapping RT-PCR products. The RT-PCR was performed with primers designed to hybridize to At3g18730 predicted by AGI. To determine the 5′ end of TSK cDNA, 5′ RACE was performed with 5′-Full RACE Core Set (Takara, Shiga, Japan). The fragment containing the 3′ end of TSK mRNA was cloned by PCR with TSK-specific and vector-specific primers from a cDNA library of Arabidopsis (kind gifts from Drs H. Tanaka and Y. Machida of the Graduate School of Science, Nagoya University, Japan). The full-length cDNA of TSK was cloned into pGWB5 or pGWB6 (gifts from Dr T. Nakagawa of the Research Institute Molecular Genetics, Shimane University, Japan) by Gateway™ cloning technology (Invitrogen, CA, USA) to produce pGWB5-TSK and pGWB6-TSK carrying TSK–GFP and GFP–TSK under the CaMV 35S promoter, respectively. Both plasmids and pGWB6 (as a control for GFP only) were introduced into tobacco BY-2 cells by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation (CITATION). Each transformant was stained with PI and observed under CLMS.
