!~ABS~! Previously, the immunophilin-like protein TWD1 from Arabidopsis has been demonstrated to interact with the ABC transporters AtPGP1 and its closest homologue, AtPGP19. Physiological and biochemical investigation of pgp1/pgp19 and of twd1 plants suggested a regulatory role of TWD1 on AtPGP1/AtPGP19 transport activities. To further understand the dramatic pleiotropic phenotype that is caused by loss-of-function mutation of the TWD1 gene, we were interested in other TWD1 interacting proteins. AtMRP1, a multidrug resistance-associated (MRP/ABCC)-like ABC transporter, has been isolated in a yeast two-hybrid screen. We demonstrate molecular interaction between TWD1 and ABC transporters AtMRP1 and its closest homologue, AtMRP2. Unlike AtPGP1, AtMRP1 binds to the C-terminal tetratricopeptide repeat domain of TWD1, which is well known to mediate protein-protein interactions. Domain mapping proved that TWD1 binds to a motif of AtMRP1 that resembles calmodulin-binding motifs; and calmodulin binding to the C-terminus of MRP1 was verified. By membrane fractionation and GFP-tagging, we localized AtMRP1 to the central vacuolar membrane and the TWD1-AtMRP1 complex was verified in vivo by coimmunoprecipitation. We were able to demonstrate that TWD1 binds to isolated vacuoles and has a significant impact on the uptake of metolachlor-GS and estradiol-β-glucuronide, well-known substrates of vacuolar transporters AtMRP1 and AtMRP2.
!~RES~! Previously, we have isolated multidrug resistance (MDR)-like ABC transporter AtPGP1 as TWD1 interacting protein by screening an Arabidopsis cDNA library with the entire cytosolic domain of TWD1 as bait (CITATION). One of 48 sequenced prey clones encoded the C-terminal peptide (BE11) of multidrug resistance-associated (MRP)-like ABC transporter AtMRP1 (CITATION). This interaction is specific because yeast strains expressing both proteins expressed high levels of β-galactosidase activity and were able to grow on medium lacking histidine, indicating a direct interaction between these two fusion proteins (Figure 1A). Negative controls of GAL4-binding domain (BD) or activation domain (AD) alone were not interacting with TWD1 or AtMRP1, respectively. Interestingly, as in the case of the AtPGP1 TWD1 interaction (CITATION), the AtMRP1 prey also coded for the C-terminus of AtMRP1. This domain comprises the C-terminal nucleotide binding fold covering the Walker A and B boxes and the intermediate ABC signature (CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] We generated GAL4-BD fusions of homologous stretches of AtMRP2, the closest homologue of AtMRP1 sharing 85% sequence identity, and some selected members of the Arabidopsis MRP/ABCC gene family (CITATION; Figure 1B). These peptides were tested for their ability to bind TWD1. AtMRP2—but not AtMRP4, AtMRP5, AtMRP7, and AtMRP13—interacted specifically with TWD1 in the yeast two-hybrid system as judged from β-galactosidase and His auxotrophy analysis. β-galactosidase activity (but not the growth assay on -HIS plates) for MRP2 was about 30% lower, possibly indicating a slightly lower magnitude of interaction. To verify the two-hybrid data in vitro, a part of the two-hybrid peptide BE11 of AtMRP1 (E1217-S1392) was expressed in E. coli. This peptide was incubated as total lysate with purified TWD1-3 protein (M1-K337) immobilized on Affigel beads, constituting a highly specific TWD1 affinity matrix (CITATION). The TWD1 matrix was able to specifically sediment the AtMRP1 C-terminus of 20 kDa from soluble E. coli extracts (Figure 1C, lane 1). No proteins were detected in controls in which the empty Affigel resin or a vector control lysate (Figure 1C, lane 2 and lane 3, respectively) were used. Disproportional staining of TWD1-3 and AtMRP1-1 peptides is due to different affinities of the used anti-pentaHIS and anti-RGSHIS recognizing TWD1-3 and AtMRP1-1, respectively. Homology modeling revealed that the putative TPR domain localized in the C-terminal part of TWD1 has the potential to form a scaffold (our unpublished results) known to act as protein-protein interaction surface (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To assess whether the TPR domain provided the interaction with AtMRP1, we tested GAL4-BD fusions covering the PPIase-like (M1-E163) and the TPR domains (E163-K337) of TWD1 in the yeast two-hybrid system. Indeed, AtMRP1 interacted with the C-terminal stretch comprising the TPR domain but not with the N-terminus containing the PPIase-like domain as monitored by β-galactosidase and His auxotrophy analysis (Figure 2). Because the TPR construct (TPR+CaMbd) used contained a motif with the potential to bind calmodulin downstream of the TPR repeats, we generated GAL4-BD fusions of the TPR motifs alone. This construct revealed similar two-hybrid profiles as the TPR+CaMbd construct proving that the TPR domain is mainly responsible for TWD1 complexation. Compared with the entire TWD1 bait, the TPR constructs displayed a reduced β-galactosidase activity, whereas the ability to grow on -HIS plates was in the same range. However, because the β-galactosidase activities (5.95 ± 0.53 and 5.41 ± 0.56 U/mg) were significantly higher than the vector control levels (0.98 ± 0.22 U/mg), the TPR domain alone seems to be sufficient for interaction with AtMRP1. [[FIGURE]] A search for candidate motifs that might be responsible for interaction to TWD1 revealed the existence of a putative calmodulin-binding domain (CaMbd) as well located in the C-terminus of AtMRP1 (W1231-Y1246; Figure 3A). Calmodulin-binding motifs are more conserved in terms of structural features than in terms of primary sequence homology (Geisler et al.,CITATION, CITATION): many CaM targets contain hydrophobic residues at positions 5 and 8 that are flanked by aromatic residues at positions 1 and 15. Although this rule is not followed strictly in AtMRP1, in an α-helical wheel presentation the peptide shows a segregation of basic and polar residues to one side and hydrophobic residues to the other side (CITATION), typical for CaMbd (our unpublished results). A putative CaMbd is also well conserved in AtMRP2 (Figure 3A). [[FIGURE]] Indeed, by using calmodulin-overlays, we were able to show that the expressed C-terminus was able to bind calmodulin in a calcium-dependent manner. Calmodulin-positive bands matched exactly the size of the known molecular weight of AtMRP1 C-terminus as could be judged from Western analysis of samples run in parallel (Figure 3B). Smaller soluble peptides of the E. coli cell lysate also reacted with calmodulin (see asterisks in Figure 3B), but are probably unspecific because CaM binding took place in the absence of calcium and was also found with vector control lysates (our unpublished results). To elucidate whether the identified CaMbd motif in the AtMRPs corresponds to the acceptor for the TPR motif of TWD1, we deleted this peptide (E1217-P1251) from the GAL4-AD-MRP1 fusion construct. Two-hybrid analysis showed that with the entire soluble part of TWD1, β-galactosidase activity as well as growth on -HIS plates was heavily reduced (Figure 3C). Even more obvious was the effect with the C-terminus of TWD1, which contains mainly TPR stretches. In summary, this indicates that the putative CaMbd alone can function as acceptor for the TWD1 TPR domain. On the basis of these findings, we asked whether calmodulin would affect the binding of the AtMRP1 C-terminus. Preincubations with a high concentration of spinach calmodulin (500 μM) before addition of the AtMRP1 target seemed to have no effect on AtMRP1 binding to the TWD1-matrix in pull-down assays (Figure 3D). A FKBP gene family with 17 putative members (CITATION) has been identified in Arabidopsis. Members that contain three repetitions of TPR motifs are TWD1, both ROF isoforms, ROF1 and ROF2 (CITATION; CITATION), and PASTICCINO1 (PAS1; CITATION; CITATION; Figure 4A). To demonstrate specificity toward AtMRP1, we therefore tested TPR domains of ROF1 and PAS1 for AtMRP1 interaction in the yeast two-hybrid system. PAS1, but not ROF1 is able to interact with AtMRP1 (Figure 4B). Unlike TWD1, PAS1 seems not to interact with the CaMbd of AtMRP1 but with different regions of the C-terminus as two-hybrid analysis with AtMRP1 lacking the CaMbd showed very similar two-hybrid profiles (Figure 4B). [[FIGURE]] The intracellular localization of AtMRP1 is unknown; however, the transport specificity of AtMRP1 approximates that of endogenous vacuolar GS-conjugate pumps (Lu et al.,CITATION, 2001; CITATION; CITATION). To determine precisely the intracellular localization of AtMRP1 we cloned AtMRP1 into a plant binary vector and constructed two independent C-terminal fusions with an enhanced version of the green fluorescent protein (EGFP). Both EGFPs were inserted into the C-terminal extension (CTE) after the second nucleotide binding fold of AtMRP1 (Figure 5A). Confocal microscope analysis of heterozygous transgenic seedlings showed high levels of AtMRP1-EGFP fluorescence in the root apex and root epidermis (Figure 5Bi), whereas plants transformed with vector control revealed no GFP fluorescence (our unpublished results). Surprisingly, no fluorescence was found in the shoot. In the root hair zone, root hairs revealed fluorescent caps at their tips (arrows in Figure 5Bii). Fluorescence surrounded the cells, however, even from close-ups it was difficult to differentiate between tonoplast and plasma membrane, mainly because in fully turgid cells the cytoplasm is limited to just small stripes. Therefore, we expressed AtMRP1-EGFP in onion epidermis cells that were transiently transformed by particle bombardment. The vacuolar GFP marker KC01, a component of the slow-vacuolar K+ channel (CITATION) labeled the tonoplast, that surrounds the central vacuole, sparing the cytoplasm, which is mainly restricted to a small spot (red color and asterisk in Figure 5Biii). Both EGFP constructs (green color in Figure 5B, iv and v) showed very similar expression patterns compared with the vacuolar control, suggesting that AtMRP1 resides on the tonoplast. In some onion cells small vesicles of unknown origin were labeled in addition to the tonoplast (arrows in Figure 5B, v and vi). To immunologically verify these data, we probed Arabidopsis microsomes separated by linear sucrose gradient density centrifugation with a polyclonal antiserum that was raised against a 17-mer peptide of AtMRP1 (N1210-R1226). This antiserum detected a single band of the expected size (∼180 kDa) in fractions 8-10 (sucrose concentrations between 35 and 43%) of the sucrose gradient (Figure 5C). AtMRP1 colocalized with the vacuolar V-type H+-ATPase (same distribution of peak fraction), whereas markers for the plasma membrane (P-type H+-ATPase) or ER (BIP) cross-reacted with other fractions (Figure 5C). A unique feature of TWD1 is the existence a C-terminal hydrophobic α-helical region, which anchors it apparently both in the plasma membrane and the central vacuolar membrane, the tonoplast. Using electron microscopy, a HA-tagged version of constitutively overexpressed TWD1 (TWD1-HA) has been immunolocalized in the plasma membrane and the vacuolar membrane (CITATION). In a parallel study, using membrane fractionation and cellular immunolocalization techniques, a plasma membrane location has been verified (CITATION). However, also in those continuous sucrose gradients TWD1-positive fractions show a clear overlap with vacuolar fractions (identified using the vacuolar V-type H+-ATPase marker) of lower sucrose percentage/higher membrane density (fractions 8-10; CITATION). To verify the dual location of TWD1, we reanalyzed selected fractions derived from linear sucrose gradient separation of TWD1-HA microsomes. In contrast to our previous study, we analyzed equal protein amounts of each fraction and used as a vacuolar marker antisera directed against a mung bean vacuolar PPase. Western blotting clearly indicates that TWD1-HA-positive fractions overlap to similar extends with both plasma membrane (40 and 50% sucrose) and vacuolar fractions (30 and 40% sucrose; Figure 6A). [[FIGURE]] To demonstrate the TWD1-AtMRP1 complex in vivo, At-MRP1 and TWD1 were immunoprecipitated from solubilized wild-type and transgenic TWD1-HA (CITATION) microsomes, respectively, after cross-linking with thiol-cleavable DTBP (Figure 6B). Cross-linking was used to avoid disruption of protein-protein interactions during strong detergent treatments to solubilize both membrane proteins from the tonoplast. Using immobilized anti-AtMRP1 antiserum for immunoprecipitation, wild-type TWD1 was detectable in a Western analysis (Figure 6B, lane 3), suggesting coprecipitation with AtMRP1 (Figure 6B, lane 1). The same was true for TWD1-HA being slightly bigger than the wild-type protein (Figure 6B, lane 6). This was the case under reducing conditions (+DTT), which cleave the DTBP cross-linker between AtMRP1 and TWD1. Under nonreducing conditions, a high-molecular-weight complex of more than 250 kDa was detected using anti-TWD1 (Figure 6B, lane 5), suggesting either multi-merization of more than one TWD1 with one AtMRP1 or the involvement of so far unknown components. No AtMRP1 or TWD1 could be detected in control experiments using empty protein G, respectively (lanes 2, 4, and 7). Vice versa, using an anti-HA affinity matrix we were able to detect AtMRP1 beside TWD1-HA; however, the entire complex could not be analyzed by PAGE under nonreducing conditions (lane 9). All cloned AtMRPs have been shown to transport GS conjugates, such as metolachlor-GS (MOC-GS), a glutathionated chloroacetanilide herbicide, to different degrees in vitro (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). But only for AtMRP1 and AtMRP2 are quantitative data available (CITATION). The overall transport capacity of AtMRP2, the sole AtMRP that has been roughly localized to vacuolar-enriched membranes (CITATION), exceeds that of AtMRP1. The substrate specificity of AtMRP1 fits better that of an endogenous vacuolar GS-conjugate pumps than does AtMRP2 (Lu et al.,CITATION, 2001). To investigate whether the interaction of TWD1 with vacuolar ABC transporters (AtMRP1 and AtMRP2) has a physiological impact on their transport activities, we measured the uptake of two ABC transporter model substrates into isolated vacuoles in the presence of purified TWD1-3 and calmodulin. Isolated Arabidopsis vacuoles offer an ideal test system, because the C-termini of transporters as putative interacting domains are thought to face the cytoplasm (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) and are therefore accessible for interfering proteins in this assay. MOC-GS uptake was significantly reduced by both, TWD1-3 (34% inhibition) and calmodulin (26% inhibition) preincubation. On the other hand, TWD1-3 protein stimulated the uptake of 17β-estradiol 17-(β-d-glucuronide) (E217βG), a glucuronide test substrate, whereas calmodulin had no significant effect. Vacuolar microsomes offered in excess were able to quantitatively sediment the TWD1-3 protein as demonstrated by Western analysis (Figure 7B, lane 1) when equal volumes of bound (P) and unbound fractions (SN) were used. No TWD1-3 protein was detected in bound fractions when microsomes were omitted from the assay (Figure 7B, lane 3), indicating the specificity of the interaction. Regarding the expected molar ratio of AtMRP1/TWD1, the high amount of sedimented TWD1 indicates that other transporters besides AtMRP1 (i.e., AtMRP2) might contribute to this effect. As a specific control, we tested the Arabidopsis 14-3-3 protein GF14-ω known to structurally resemble TPR domains (CITATION). This isoform of 14-3-3 (CITATION) was also able to show some binding to vacuolar membranes but to a much lesser extend (<50%; Figure 7B, lanes 5 and 6). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! A stretch of TWD1 containing a TPR-like domain (E163-L314), which omits a calmodulin-binding domain (Q310-G328; CITATION) as well as the C-termini of Arabidopsis ABC transporters AtMRP1, AtMRP2, AtMRP4, AtMRP5, and AtMRP7 were amplified by PCR (for MIPS codes and primer sequences see Table 1) and cloned as GAL4-binding domain (BD) and activation domain (AD) fusions into the two-hybrid vectors pACT2 and pAS2 (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA), respectively.  The C-terminus of AtMRP13 as well as the TPR domains of PAS1 and ROF1 were cloned by two-step RT-PCR as described in Geisler et al. (CITATION) using a gene-specific primer located in the 3′ untranslated region of the corresponding genes (see Table 1 for primer sequences). The coding regions were amplified by PCR using Vent DNA Polymerase (New England Biolabs, Frankfurt, Germany) and inserted into the indicated sites of two-hybrid vectors pACT2 and pAS2 (see Table 1). All constructs were sequenced to verify the absence of PCR errors. For interaction analysis, three to five independent transformants of two independent transformations for each construct were analyzed for activation of histidine growth reporter (HIS auxotrophy) and LacZ (β-galactosidase) reporter activity. Therefore, single colonies were resuspended in 1 ml of sterile water and 5 μl of each suspension were spotted on SD plates containing 25 mM 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole lacking leucine, tryptophan, and histidine (-HIS). Growth was judged after 3 days. β-galactosidase activity was quantified by liquid culture assay using standard protocols. The insert of clone pACT2-AtMRP1 (BE11) encoding the C-terminus of At-MRP1 was cut out from the two-hybrid vector using BglII sites flanking the insert and ligated in-frame into the BamHI site of pQE32 (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany). This way, the resulting peptide was expressed as an N-terminal 6× His-tagged fusion protein in Escherichia coli strain BL21D3 pLysC (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA). Due to an internal BglII site (base pairs 4172), the C-terminus was split into two halves, but only the N-terminal part of the interacting protein (E1217-S1392) was successfully expressed in E. coli. A TWD1-affinity matrix was synthesized and incubated with cleared E. coli supernatants from cells overproducing the C-terminus of AtMRP1 or vector control lysates as described in Geisler et al. (CITATION). Some reactions were carried out in the presence of 500 μM spinach calmodulin (Sigma, Buchs, Switzerland) with (addition of 100 μM CaCl2) or without calcium (addition of 5 mM EGTA). Eluted proteins were detected by Western blot analysis using monoclonal anti-pentaHIS and anti-RGSHis (Qiagen). Total lysates of E. coli containing the expressed AtMRP1 C-terminus were transferred to filters and probed with 100 ng/ml biotinylated CaM (Calbiochem, Darmstadt, Germany) in TBS plus 2% BSA. Blots were washed with TNT (TBS plus 0.05% Tween 20) in the presence (500 μM CaCl2) or absence of calcium (5 mM EGTA). Bound CaM was detected with alkaline phosphatase coupled to streptavidine (Promega, Madison, WI). The cDNA of AtMRP1 was isolated by screening a size selected Arabidopsis cDNA library made from plants, which were treated with the herbicide primisulfuron (CITATION). A 1005-base pair AtMRP1-/AtMRP2-specific PCR fragment amplified from Arabidopsis genomic DNA (upper primer 5′ tgccaatcacttcataccatgtggtcgg, lower primer 5′ gagagagtgacgtaaa(c/t)gctcttgcagg) was used as radiolabeled probe. Positive lambda clones were purified and integrated plasmid vectors were excised via in vivo excision. Clone pBSC-24 contained the longest ORF of AtMRP1. Because pBSC-24 was lacking the first 387 base pairs of the predicted complete ORF, the 5′ end of AtMRP1 was cloned by one-step RT-PCR using the Titan RT-PCR system (Roche Diagnostics, Rotkreuz, Switzerland) and 1 μg of Arabidopsis RNA followed by a second PCR using a 10-fold dilution of the one-step RT-PCR reaction as template. Nested PCR primers contained NotI and SphI restriction sites (underlined in Table 1) that enabled completion of the ORF in pBSC-24 resulting in vector pBSC-MRP1. A NotI adapter was ligated into a XhoI site downstream the stop codon of vector pBsc-MRP1, and the AtMRP1 ORF was subcloned as NotI-XhoI fragment into vector pRTΩ (CITATION), resulting in pRTΩ-MRP1. The entire gene of an enhanced GFP version (EGFP) was PCR amplified and inserted into the HindIII (base pairs 4526) and XbaI (base pairs 4729) sites of AtMRP1 (pRTΩ-MRP1), respectively (see Figure 5A). The cassette containing the CaMV 35S promoter, MRP1-EGFP and the polyadenylation signal was excised with AscI and inserted into vectors pGPTV-bar (CITATION) and the resulting binary constructs pGPTV-MRP1-12 and pGPTV-MRP1-13 were used to transform Arabidopsis via vacuum infiltration using Agrobacterium strain GV3101. Resistant transformants were selected on soil by watering with a BASTA solution (1:20,000). [[FIGURE]] Genetic nomenclature was used following the community standards for Arabidopsis genetics (CITATION). Onion epidermis cell layers were transfected with both constructs pGPTVMRP1-12 and pGPTV-MRP1-13 after coating 0.6-μm gold microparticles (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA) using a particle inflow gun as described in Ibrahim et al. (CITATION). After bombardment at low-pressure helium flow (26 psi), epidermal layers were incubated at RT for 16-24 h in the dark. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants were grown for 7 days on MS plates including BASTA (1:20,000) under continuous light. Transfected onion epidermis cells and young Arabidopsis seedlings were analyzed by confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM). FITC fluorescence using the corresponding filter sets was recorded, and stored images were then colored as green or red colors using Adobe Photoshop 5.5 (Adobe Systems, San Jose, CA). Arabidopsis microsomes were prepared and separated by continuous sucrose gradient centrifugation as described in Geisler et al. (CITATION). Nitrocellulose membranes were probed with anti-AtMRP1 and the following marker enzyme antibodies: anti-P-type H+-ATPase, anti-V-type H+-ATPase (2E7), anti-PPase and anti-BIP as described in Geisler et al. (CITATION). The anti-AtMRP1 antibodies were raised in rabbits by injecting 8 mg of synthetic peptide (C-NYIEIPSEAPLVIENNR), which was conjugated with keyhole limpet hemocyanin. The peptide sequence corresponds to the internal hydrophilic region of AtMRP1 (N1210-R1226). For vacuolar pull down assays, Arabidopsis vacuolar membranes (50 μg protein) were incubated for 30 min with 20 μg TWD1-3 or 15 μg 14-3-3-GF14-ω protein in sorbitol buffer (400 mM sorbitol, 30 mM KCl, 20 mM HEPES, pH 7.2) at 4°C. Proteins were expressed from plasmids pTWD1-3 (CITATION) and pMP681 (CITATION), purified by Ni-affinity chromatography, and dialyzed against sorbitol buffer. Vesicles were pelleted by ultracentrifugation and washed twice with sorbitol buffer. Equal volumes of pellets and supernatants (20 μl of 360 μl final volume) were separated by 15% PAGE, and TWD1-3 and 14-3-3-GF14-ω were detected using monoclonal anti-pentaHIS antibodies. Immunoprecipitations using protein G-coupled anti-AtMRP1 were carried out as described in Geisler et al. (CITATION) with the following modifications: microsomal membranes prepared from Arabidopsis wild-type leaves were enriched for vacuolar membranes by pooling immunopositive TWD1 fractions obtained by sucrose gradient centrifugations (fractions 8-10; see Figure 5C). Immunoprecipitations using anti-HA affinity matrix were carried out according to the manufacturer (Roche Diagnostics, Rotkreuz, Switzerland) with microsomes derived from Arabidopsis plants expressing an N-terminal HA-tagged version of TWD1 (TWD1-HA; CITATION). After cross-linking, membrane proteins were solubilized using 0.1% (vol/vol) Brij 35 and 0.05% (wt/vol) CHAPS in 10 mM potassium phosphate, pH 7.8, 250 mM sucrose, and 20% (vol/vol) glycerol. Eluted proteins were separated by PAGE using 7.5%, 12.5% Laemmli gels, or 4-12% Criterion XT Bis-Tris gels (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Reinach, Switzerland) in the presence or absence of 1 mM DTT. Vacuoles were prepared from Arabidopsis cell suspension cultures (CITATION) and transport studies using the silicon oil centrifugation technique was carried out as described in Frangne et al. (CITATION). Some reactions were performed in the presence of 1 μM bovine brain calmodulin and 1 μM purified TWD1-3 protein (CITATION). Uptake was started by addition of 30 μl concentrated vacuole suspension and stopped after 10 min by centrifugation. 14C-metolachlor-GS and 3H-estradiol-β-glucuronide was determined by scintillation counting of aqueous phases and -ATP assays were considered as time 0. The vacuolar volume was calculated by the addition of 0.05 μCi 3H2O in separate assays. Conjugate-uptake experiments were performed with three independent vacuole preparations with five replicas each for each time point.
