!~ABS~! HD2 (histone deacetylase) proteins are plant-specific histone deacetylases (HDACs). The Arabidopsis genome contains four HD2 genes, namely HD2A, HD2B, HD2C, and HD2D. We have previously demonstrated that HD2A, HD2B, and HD2C can repress transcription directly by targeting to promoters in planta. Here, we show that the N-terminal conserved motif (EFWG) and histidine 25 (H25), a potential catalytic residue, were important for the gene repression activity of HD2A. In situ hybridization indicated that HD2A, HD2B, and HD2C were expressed in ovules, embryos, shoot apical meristems, and primary leaves. Furthermore, all three genes were strongly induced during the process of somatic embryogenesis. HD2D mRNA was only detected in the stems and flowers with young siliques and may have adopted different functions. Using green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusions, we demonstrated that HD2A, HD2B, and HD2C accumulated in the nuclei of Arabidopsis cells. Overexpression of 35S::GFP–HD2A in transgenic Arabidopsis plants generated pleiotropic developmental abnormalities, including abnormal leaves, delayed flowering, and aborted seed development. The data showed that normal pattern of HD2 expression was essential for normal plant development and that HD2A, HD2B, and HD2C may be needed for embryogenesis and embryo development. Reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR analysis revealed that a number of genes involved in seed development and maturation were repressed in the 35S::GFP–HD2A plants, supporting a role of HD2A in the regulation of gene expression during seed development.
!~RES~! We have previously demonstrated that HD2A, HD2B, and HD2C repressed transcription as GAL4 fusion proteins when directed to a promoter containing GAL4-binding sites (CITATION). Here, we used site-directed mutagenesis to identify residues in HD2A that are required for gene repression activity. Sequence alignments of all known and putative HD2 proteins revealed that the N-terminal region of HD2 proteins contains an EFWG motif as well as 18 conserved amino acid residues (CITATION; CITATION). As shown in Figure 1, deletion of the N-terminal EFWG motif resulted in loss of gene repression activity. Among the conserved amino acid residues, it was suggested that histidine 25 (H25) and aspartic acid 69 (D69) have potential catalytic properties (CITATION). We therefore mutated these residues to alanine (A) by site-directed mutagenesis to test if they are required for gene repression activity. As shown in Figure 1, the H25A mutant yielded decreased gene repression activity compared with wild-type protein. The D69A mutant, however, showed little change in gene repression activity compared with wild-type protein. The experiment was repeated thrice with similar results. Our data suggest that the N-terminal EFWG motif is essential for gene repression activity, and that amino acid residue H25 may be important but to a lesser extent. [[FIGURE]] The mRNA accumulation patterns were examined for all of the Arabidopsis HD2 genes by reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR. As shown in Figure 2, HD2A, HD2B, and HD2C mRNAs were detected in leaves, roots, stems, young plantlets, and a sample containing flowers and siliques; however, the levels of accumulation differed among the organs. Our RT-PCR analysis data are consistent with previously published data of northern analysis (CITATION; plant chromatin database: http://www.chromdb.org). In contrast, the HD2D mRNA was only detected in the stems and flowers with young siliques, suggesting that certain HD2 genes may be differentially expressed in Arabidopsis. [[FIGURE]] The spatial patterns of HD2A, HD2B, and HD2C mRNA accumulation were examined by in situ hybridization. The gene-specific probes corresponding to the less-conserved C-terminal regions of the HD2 proteins (CITATION) were generated by PCR. Low levels of expression were detected in all of the organs examined, but the highest levels of accumulation were found in the ovules (Figure 3a), embryos (Figure 3e,i), shoot apical meristem (Figure 3c), and first leaves (Figure 3c). Figure 3 shows the spatial expression pattern for HD2B mRNA accumulation and the data were identical for HD2A and HD2C (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] The selective expression of the HD2 genes in the embryos of seeds indicated a potential functional role in embryogenesis and embryo development that may be addressed experimentally through somatic embryogenesis. Although somatic embryogenesis is difficult to achieve in wild-type Arabidopsis (CITATION) the ectopic expression of certain transcription factors, such as BBM from Brassica napus, can induce the proliferation of somatic embryos on transgenic plant tissues (CITATION). Figure 4(b) illustrates the differentiation of somatic embryos on the cotyledons of transgenic Arabidopsis seedlings expressing a 35S::BBM-nos gene. Compared with wild-type plantlets (Figure 4a), the transgenic plantlets have shortened roots, swollen dedifferentiating hypocotyls, and abnormal cotyledons with somatic embryos differentiating mostly at the tips (Figure 4b). In situ hybridization with an HD2B-specific probe shows that the HD2B mRNA is accumulating throughout the transgenic cotyledonary tissues but particularly in the somatic embryos and underlying tissues (Figure 4c). In contrast, HD2B mRNA did not accumulate in the cotyledons of wild-type plants (Figure 3c). The same results were found with an HD2A-specific probe (Figure 4d) and with an HD2C-specific probe (data not shown). The induction of the HD2 family of genes therefore appears to be correlated with the competence of tissues to undergo somatic embryogenesis and the early stages of somatic embryo development. This pattern of expression is similar to that seen with seed-derived embryos (Figure 3e,i). It is unclear from this experiment whether the increased levels of HD2 gene expression was caused by the induction of somatic embryos or overexpression of the BBM transcription factor. [[FIGURE]] To investigate the cellular distribution of HD2 proteins, we performed an in vivo targeting experiment using a GFP. GFP–HD2A, GFP–HD2B, and GFP–HD2C gene fusions were created and introduced into Arabidopsis under the 35S promoter to achieve high levels of constitutive expression. To confirm that the fusion proteins entered the nucleus and associated with chromatin, we monitored the fluorescence of GFP at the cellular level. Protoplasts were isolated from seedlings of transgenic Arabidopsis, and localization of the fusion protein was determined by fluorescence microscope. As shown in Figure 5, the GFP–HD2B fusion protein was localized in the nucleus of the Arabidopsis cells. The maize HD2 was previously localized in the nucleolus (CITATION). The GFP–HD2B fusion protein did not localize uniformly to the entire nucleus, but rather to a much smaller area with sharp boundaries, suggesting possible nucleolus localization. Similar results were observed with the GFP–HD2A and GFP–HD2C. The GFP alone, however, was uniformly distributed throughout the cell (Figure 5d). [[FIGURE]] We analyzed the phenotypes of the transgenic Arabidopsis plants that expressed the GFP–HD2A gene. The expression of the GFP–HD2A transcript was determined by using a 32P-labeled HD2A cDNA probe. Four independent transgenic lines, 21N-1, 21N-2, 21N-3, and 21N-4, with high levels of GFP–HD2A expression were identified (Figure 6). Low level of endogenous HD2A expression was detected in the leaf tissues by northern analysis, which is consistent with the RT-PCR data in Figure 3. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants displayed pleiotropic developmental abnormalities at very high frequencies compared with wild-type and 35S::GFP plants (Table 1). These included abnormal leaf (Figure 7b–d) and flower morphologies (Figure 7h,i,k,l), delayed flowering (Figure 7e), and aborted seed development (Figure 7n,o). Among four transgenic lines analyzed, about 20–70% of the transgenic plants were sterile (Table 1). In sterile plants, the sizes of the filaments were significantly shorter than those in normal plants (Figure 7k,l) but the pollen was fertile when crossed to wild-type plants. The data showed that ectopic expression of HD2A may interfere with several normal developmental processes, indicating that the spatial regulation of the HD2A gene observed earlier may be essential for normal plant development. Developmental abnormalities were observed in the plants from four independent transgenic lines, but not in wild-type control plants or in plants transformed with the GFP alone. The developmental abnormalities persisted over five generations of selfing. Our data suggest that the abnormal phenotypes of the transgenic plants were co-inherited with the GFP–HD2A transgene. [[FIGURE]]  The numbers in the parentheses are the total plants analyzed. The frequencies are for the transgenic progenies only, the non-transgenic segregants are not included.  Abnormal leaves include branching-leaf, narrow-leaf, and curled-leaf phenotypes.  Wild-type Arabidopsis plants flowered at 26–33 days, whereas the later flowering plants flowered at 35–43 days.  Sterile plants did not produce seeds. [[FIGURE]] To investigate the transcriptional regulatory roles of HD2A in plants, the expression of several genes involved in seed development in 35S::GFP–HD2A plants was determined by RT-PCR. As shown in Figure 8, the transcript levels of a number of seed development-related genes were repressed in two 35S::GFP–HD2A transgenic lines, 21N-1 and 21N-2. These include late embryogenesis-abundant protein (CITATION), cruciferin, lectin, oleosin, seed maturation protein, albumin, legumin, peroxiredoxin (CITATION), and abscisic acid-responsive elements-binding factor 3 (ABF3; CITATION; CITATION). The expression of these genes was more significantly repressed in 21N-2 plants compared with 21N-1 plants. 21N-2 plants had a higher expression level of GFP–HD2A compared with 21N-1 plants (Figure 6), suggesting a correlation between HD2A expression and gene repression. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The upstream activating sequence of GAL4 tandem (UASGAL4)-tCUP–GUS reporter and 35S::GAL4–HD2A effector constructs were generated as described by CITATION). The N-terminal EFWG deletion (ΔHD2A) of HD2A was generated by PCR using the primer pair PRM1s and PR4. The H25A and D69A mutants of HD2A were generated by PCR-based overlap extension mutagenesis (CITATION). Two PCRs were set up simultaneously using the HD2A cDNA as a template. The primer pairs for generating H25A are: FM1a and PR1 for the first PCR, and RM1s and PR4 for the second PCR. The primer pairs for generating D69A are: FM2a and PR1 for the first PCR, and RM2s and PR4 for the second PCR. To construct 35S::GFP–HD2A plasmid, we replaced the GAL4 cDNA in the 35S::GAL4–HD2A (CITATION) with the GFP cDNA. Pfu Polymerase (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA, USA) was used in PCR to minimize undesired mutations in the sequences. The sequences of the primers used for the mutagenesis are listed: PRM1s, 5′-aattcccgggaattgaagttaaatcaggaaagc-3′; PR4, 5′-acgtgagctcagaaaccacttcacttggc-3′; FM1a, 5′-ctgagaaacggcgataagaatgccttcttcag-3′; RM1s, 5′-cattcttatcgccgtttctcaggcatcgcttg-3′; FM2a, 5′-tccccaagtggcagaaagctcaaactccttg-3′; and RM2s, 5′-gagctttctgccacttggggaaaaggaagtg-3′. Dye primer sequencing of plasmids was performed using an automated sequencing system (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA, USA). DNA and protein sequence analysis was carried out using blast searches (CITATION) and the vector nti suite program (InforMax Inc., Bethesda, MD, USA). Total genomic DNA from Arabidopsis was extracted as described by CITATION). For Southern blots, Arabidopsis genomic DNA was digested with restriction enzymes, separated by agarose gel electrophoresis, and transferred to nylon membranes (CITATION). For Northern analysis, total RNA was isolated from 100 to 200 mg of Arabidopsis leaf tissues using Trizol reagent as described by the manufacturer (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA). Northern blots were prepared by electrophoresis of 5–10-µg samples of total RNA through agarose gels in the presence of formaldehyde, followed by transfer to nylon membranes. Southern and Northern blots were probed with 32P-labeled probes. Pre-hybridization and hybridization were performed at 65°C in 0.5 m Na2HPO4 (pH 7.2), 7% SDS, and 1 mm EDTA (CITATION). Filters were washed once for 15 min in 2× SSC with 0.1% SDS at room temperature, and then twice for 20 min in 0.1× SSC, 0.1% SDS at 65°C. The damp filters were autoradiographed at −80°C using two intensifying screens. Filters were stripped in 5 mm Tris–HCl, pH 7.5, 1 mm EDTA, 0.05% SDS at 100°C for 2 min when re-probing was required. One microgram of total RNA was used for the first-strand cDNA synthesis after incubation at 65°C for 10 min. cDNA was synthesized in a volume of 20 µl that contained MoMLV RT buffer (Promega, Madison, WI, USA), 10 mm dithiothreitol, 1.5 µm poly(dT) primer, 0.5 mm dNTPs, 2 U of MoMLV RT at 37°C for 1 h. All PCR reactions were performed with 0.5 U of Taq polymerase (PGC Scientific, Gaithersburg, MD, USA), the buffer provided by the supplier, 0.2 mm dNTPs, and a pair of primers (0.1 µm each) in a final volume of 20 µl. PCR parameters differed for each gene: thermocycling conditions were 94°C for 2 min followed by 25–40 cycles of 94°C for 1 min, 62–65°C for 1 min, and 72°C for 2 min, with a final polymerization step at 72°C for 10 min. The gene-specific primer pairs used for the RT-PCR are listed: HD2A, 5′-atggagttctggggaatttg-3′ and 5′-cgtgcttggccttgttgtgag-3′; HD2B, 5′-atggagttctggggtgttgaag-3′ and 5′-tcaagcagctgcactgtgtttg-3′; HD2C, 5′-atggagttctggggtgttgaag-3′ and 5′-tcaagcagctgcactgtgtttg-3′; HD2D, 5′-atggagttttggggtatcg-3′ and 5′-ctactttttgcaagagggac-3′; and UBIQUITIN (UBQ), 5′-gatctttgccggaaaacaattggaggatggt-3′ and 5′-cgacttgtcattagaaagaaagagataacagg-3′. Primers used for checking expression of the genes involved in seed development are listed in the Table 2. CRU, cruciferin; LEC, lectin; OLE, oleosin; LEA, late embryogenesis abundant protein; SMP, seed maturation protein; ALB, albumin; LEG, legumin; PRX, peroxiredoxin; and ABF3, abscisic acid responsive elements-binding factor 3. Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Columbia) was grown in a growth chamber (16 h of light and 8 h of darkness at 23°C) after a 2–4-day vernalization period. For growth under sterile conditions, seeds were surface sterilized (15 min incubation in 5% (v/v) sodium hypochlorite, and rinsed thrice with sterile distilled water) and sown on half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) salts (CITATION) supplemented with 1% sucrose, pH 5.7, and 0.8% (w/v) agar in Petri dishes. Plant transformation plasmids were electroporated into Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 (CITATION) as described by CITATION). The Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of A. thaliana was performed as described by CITATION). T1 seeds were harvested, dried at 25°C, and germinated on sterile medium containing 40 µg ml−1 kanamycin to select the transformants. Surviving T1 plantlets were transferred to soil to set seeds (T2). Protoplasts were isolated from Arabidopsis seedlings as described by CITATION). The fluorescence photographs of protoplasts were taken using an Olympus florescent microscope fitted with fluorescein isothiocyanate filters (excitation filter, 450–490 nm; emission filter, 520 nm; and dichroic mirror, 510 nm). Tobacco (SR1) plants were grown in vitro in half-strength MS medium (CITATION) in Magenta boxes (Magenta Corp., Chicago, USA) and kept in a growth chamber at 25°C. After transfer to fresh medium for 2–3 weeks, uniform-sized leaves (about 3 cm in width) were cut off from the plants and placed on a medium consisting of MS salts, B5 vitamins (CITATION), 1 mg l−1 6-benzyladenine, 0.1 mg l−1 naphthalene acetic acid, 3% sucrose, and 0.25% Gelrite in a 20 mm × 15 mm Petri dish. The leaves were pre-conditioned on this medium for 1 day prior to gene delivery. Plasmid DNA was isolated using the Qiagen Plasmid Midi Kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA, USA). The reporter plasmid was mixed with an effector plasmid at a 1 : 1 ratio (weight). In the control, the reporter plasmid was mixed with an equal amount of the control plasmid pUC19. A modified particle inflow gun (CITATION) was used for DNA delivery to the tobacco leaves. Twenty-four hours after bombardment, GUS gene expression was determined by recording the number of GUS reporter gene expression events as indicated by the number of blue foci per explant (CITATION). The samples were fixed in 3.7% formaldehyde, 50% ethanol, and 5% acetic acid, and then dehydrated, infiltrated in Paraplast, and sectioned as described previously by CITATION). In situ hybridization conditions and probe preparation were performed as described by CITATION). The gene-specific probes were generated by PCR using the primer pairs: HD2A, 5′-gagaagcttgacggaatggatgaagatg-3′ and 5′-cagctcgagcaagtgcattccctgagttg-3′; HD2B, 5′-gtcaattaaccctcactaaagggaagcttccaaaacacccgtctctggaa-3′ and 5′-ctagtaatacgactcactatagggctcgagccctttcccttgcccttgtt-3′; and HD2C, 5′-acgtaagcttccgcatgtccatgttgc-3′ and 5′-acgtctcgaggctgcactgtgtttgg-3′.
