!~ABS~! The sku6-1 mutant of Arabidopsis thaliana exhibits altered patterns of root and organ growth. sku6 roots, etiolated hypocotyls, and leaf petioles exhibit right-handed axial twisting, and root growth on inclined agar media is strongly right skewed. The touch-dependent sku6 root skewing phenotype is suppressed by the antimicrotubule drugs propyzamide and oryzalin, and right skewing is exacerbated by cold treatment. Cloning revealed that sku6-1 is allelic to spiral1-1 (spr1-1). However, modifiers in the Columbia (Col) and Landsberg erecta (Ler) ecotype backgrounds mask noncomplementation in sku6-1 (Col)/spr1-1 (Ler) F1 plants. The SPR1 gene encodes a plant-specific 12-kD protein that is ubiquitously expressed and belongs to a six-member gene family in Arabidopsis. An SPR1:green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion expressed in transgenic seedlings localized to microtubules within the cortical array, preprophase band, phragmoplast, and mitotic spindle. SPR1:GFP was concentrated at the growing ends of cortical microtubules and was dependent on polymer growth state; the microtubule-related fluorescence dissipated upon polymer shortening. The protein has a repeated motif at both ends, separated by a predicted rod-like domain, suggesting that it may act as an intermolecular linker. These observations suggest that SPR1 is involved in microtubule polymerization dynamics and/or guidance, which in turn influences touch-induced directional cell expansion and axial twisting.
!~RES~! The spr1-6 mutant (ecotype Col) was isolated as a recessive nuclear mutation in a T-DNA activation-tagging screen for root waving mutants. On 1.5% agar-solidified germination medium (GM) that was tilted 40° from the vertical, growth of spr1-6 roots skewed in a rightward direction as viewed from above the agar surface, whereas wild-type Col roots grew straight downward (Figures 1A and 1B). Close examination of spr1-6 roots revealed that the epidermal cell files twisted much more in a clockwise direction (right-handed) compared with the wild type as the root moved to the right during the wave motion (Figures 1C and 1D, Table 1). spr1-6 root epidermal cell files also exhibited brief left-handed twisting similar to the wild type as the root tip moved to the left. During the leftward motions, a portion of the spr1-6 root had a tendency to rise off of the agar as the tip pointed toward and grew against the agar surface (Figure 1D). [[FIGURE]] Measurements of Wild-Type (Col) and spr1-6 Roots Grown under Various Conditions spr1-6 roots also exhibited a right-handed twisting bias when grown within or on vertically oriented 0.8% agar-solidified GM, as did airborne spr1-6 etiolated hypocotyls and, at times, leaf petioles (Figures 1E to 1J, Table 1). spr1-6 roots that penetrated the tilted agar surface and grew within the medium, however, did not skew but instead followed the gravity vector–like wild type until encountering the agar/plate interface, after which they again skewed to the right (Figure 1B). The spr1-6 root axial rotation defect as well as the surface-dependent right slanting phenotype were much stronger when seedlings were grown at 16°C on either tilted 1.5% agar-solidified GM or vertical 0.8% agar-solidified GM, revealing the temperature-sensitive nature of these phenotypes (Figures 1K to 1M, Table 1). In fact, spr1-6 roots had more of a tendency to loop and coil under these conditions than when grown at 22°C (Figures 1L and 1M). Growth at 16°C had little effect on wild-type directional growth (Figure 1K, Table 1). CITATION found that the right-skewing and right-handed twisting root growth phenotypes of spr1-1 seedlings were suppressed by the antimicrotubule drug propyzamide. Because spr1-6 did not complement the spr1-1 mutation (see below), we tested the effects of antimicrotubule drugs on spr1-6 root growth, using a range of concentrations. Figures 2C and 2D and Table 2 show that on tilted medium containing 3 μM propyzamide, spr1-6 and wild-type roots both skewed to the left. The dinitroanaline herbicide oryzalin affected root growth similarly, with 0.1 μM exerting the strongest left-skewing effect (Figures 2E and 2F, Table 2). Oryzalin concentrations higher than 0.1 μM inhibited root elongation and abolished slanting and waving. [[FIGURE]] Measurements of Wild-Type and spr1-6 Seedling Roots Grown on Either 1.5% Agar-Solidified GM or 0.8% Agar-Solidified GM with or without an Antimicrotubule Drug We also quantified root axial twisting by measuring the amount of cell file rotation seen in spr1-6 and wild-type roots grown on vertical 0.8% agar-containing GM with or without each of these drugs (Table 2). We found that, on average, the right-handed axial twisting bias usually seen in spr1-6 roots switched to a left-handed twist in the presence of 3 μM propyzamide as well as 0.1 μM oryzalin. Wild-type Col roots, which usually do not have a twisting bias, also acquired a left-handed twist on agar media containing these drugs (Table 2). The spr1-6 mutant was isolated from a T-DNA activation-tagged population. However, the mutation segregated as a single recessive allele, suggesting that the phenotype was because of loss of gene function rather than activation of a gene. The original mutant line contained several T-DNA insertions, but after a cross to the wild type, a spr1-6 line designated JS79 that contained a single T-DNA insertion was identified. The genomic DNA flanking the T-DNA in JS79 was recovered by thermal asymmetric interlaced PCR (CITATION). The resulting 1.3-kb fragment contained a region of the T-DNA left border inserted within the open reading frame of putative gene At2g03680. To confirm that the disruption of At2g03680 by the T-DNA insertion was the cause of the spr1-6 mutant phenotype, we isolated a 2.5-kb XhoI genomic fragment from BAC F19Bll that contained the putative SPR1 gene along with 0.8-kb upstream and 0.7-kb downstream sequences (Figure 3A). The XhoI fragment, which did not carry any other intact annotated genes, was cloned into the pBIN19 binary vector and transformed into spr1-6 plants using Agrobacterium tumefaciens (CITATION). Analysis of T1 and T2 generation transformants revealed that this fragment was able to complement all of the spr1-6 phenotypic abnormalities (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] The T-DNA element responsible for the spr1-6 mutation was inserted at codon 75 within the second exon of a three-exon gene (At2g03680) predicted to encode a novel 119–amino acid polypeptide (12 kD; Figures 3A and 3B). BLAST searches of GenBank identified no SPR1 homologs outside of plants but identified five other SPR1-like genes within Arabidopsis (At1g26360, At1g69230, At3g02180, At4g23496, and At5g15600). These genes were predicted to encode proteins sharing from 44 to 56% amino acid sequence identity with SPR1 (Figure 3B). ESTs were identified for three of the five SPR1-like genes (At3g02180, At4g23496, and At5g15600). ESTs for At3g02180 and At4g23496 appeared to be full length, supporting the genome project annotations of these genes. Twenty ESTs corresponding to the SPR1 gene were identified in GenBank. Many appeared to be full length or nearly full length, supporting the annotation of the SPR1 open reading frame (ORF) by the genome project. The SPR1 gene sequence was also annotated as interacting with nitrilase based on a yeast two-hybrid screen. However, the two-hybrid interaction was not confirmed by other means and may have been artifactual. The SPR1 and SPR1-like proteins have a low complexity composition within the middle portions of the polypeptides, with some proteins containing continuous stretches of Thr residues. The middle portion of SPR1 is rich in Pro and Thr residues. A highly conserved direct repeat sequence is present at the N-terminal and C-terminal ends of these proteins, the consensus motif being GGGSSLG/DYLFG (Figure 3B). Database searches did not report this motif as being present in other proteins. Comparison of the SPR1 sequence to GenBank using the MAXHOM alignment program (CITATION) revealed significant sequence similarity between SPR1 and a portion of the human Filamin A protein (FLNa; Figure 3C; 28% amino acid identity and 45% conservation over a continuous 87–amino acid stretch, smallest sum probability of 1.1 × 10−6). FLNa is a 280-kD actin cross-linking and scaffolding protein consisting of an N-terminal actin binding domain and 24 repeat sequences, each repeat being ∼96 amino acids long (CITATION). SPR1 shares homology with the repeats 12 and 13. To determine where the SPR1 gene is expressed, RNA gel blots were performed on total RNA from various wild-type tissues (Figure 4). A 0.6-kb transcript was identified in all wild-type tissues tested, including seedling roots and shoots as well as adult leaves, inflorescence stems, and flowers. No transcripts were identified in RNA from the spr1-6 mutant, confirming that the probe was specific to SPR1 transcripts and that the spr1-6 mutation was a null. [[FIGURE]] To determine the subcellular localization of the SPR1 protein, we generated transgenic spr1-6 seedlings expressing a SPR1:green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion consisting of the ENHANCED GREEN FLUORESCENT PROTEIN (EGFP) open reading frame (CITATION) fused to the C terminus of the predicted SPR1 open reading frame. To preserve normal regulatory sequences, the construct pJS1 contained the EGFP gene in frame with the genomic SPR1 gene, along with SPR1 upstream and downstream genomic sequences. This construct complemented the spr1-6 mutant phenotypes in 100 of 107 transgenic plants (data not shown). Confocal microscopic analysis of these seedlings identified GFP fluorescence emanating from the cytoplasm as well as from filamentous structures around the cortex of root and shoot cells (Figures 5A to 5C). The filamentous patterns were consistent with cortical microtubule localization. For instance, within the root tip, the filamentous arrays were disorganized within meristematic cells and transversely oriented within elongation zone cells (Figure 5A). Moreover, these arrays at times became oblique then longitudinally oriented within root mature zone cells (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Because microtubules also form distinctive arrays at others stages of the cell cycle, we examined whether SPR1:GFP localized to preprophase bands, phragmoplasts, and mitotic spindles in dividing cells. As was the case in the interphase cell cortex, SPR1:GFP-related fluorescence was visible in patterns consistent with microtubule localization within these arrays (Figures 5D to 5F). Although the SPR1:GFP fusion protein exhibited fluorescence patterns consistent with microtubule localization, in most interphase cells the distribution of fluorescence was not uniform along the cortical microtubules but instead appeared to be more densely accumulated in specific regions (Figures 5B and 5C). To investigate this localization further, we performed time-lapse imaging of SPR1:GFP using confocal microscopy. We observed that SPR1:GFP fluorescence commonly moved in comet-like streaks across the cell cortex (Figures 6A and 6B; see Supplemental Movies S1 and S2 online). The fluorescence in each streak was typically asymmetrically distributed, being of highest intensity at the end leading the direction of travel and diminishing exponentially to form a trailing tail (Figure 6C). These patterns of localization and movement were consistent with the label showing polarized accumulation at the growing ends of microtubules. By contrast, transgenic seedlings expressing a yellow fluorescent protein β-TUBULIN fusion (YFP:TUBULIN) exhibited uniform fluorescence across cortical microtubules in interphase cells (see Supplemental Movie S3 online). [[FIGURE]] We asked if the SPR1:GFP comets shared other characteristics displayed by the dynamic ends of cortical microtubules. As predicted, SPR1:GFP microtubule localization appeared de novo at the cell cortex, with label moving away from the site of origin, just as observed with TUBULIN:GFP-labeled microtubules (CITATION; Figure 7A and see Supplemental Movie S4 online). The plus ends of cortical microtubules undergo frequent shifts among growth, pause, and shrinking states, a pattern termed dynamic instability (CITATION). SPR1:GFP comets moved relatively smoothly in one direction but often disappeared abruptly. Upon closer examination, these episodes of disappearance appeared to be associated with a transition to polymer shrinkage and at times could be clearly imaged because of less dissipation of label along the sidewalls (Figure 7B and see Supplemental Movie S5 online). [[FIGURE]] Comets of SPR1:GFP were also observed to join and travel along common tracks, suggesting the formation and association of individual microtubules into bundles of polymers, as also observed with TUBULIN:GFP (CITATION; see Supplemental Movie S6 online). SPR1:GFP patches occasionally appeared to detach from the cortex and were subjected to buffeting by the underlying streaming cytosol (see Supplemental Movie S7 online). This behavior would be difficult to explain if the patches of label were not at the ends of the polymers. Finally, previous observations revealed that the lagging ends of cortical microtubules show slow and persistent depolymerization (CITATION). We did not observe movement of the fluorescent comets consistent with lagging end depolymerization (60 observations in nine cells and four plants). Taken together, these observations strongly suggest that SPR1:GFP is concentrated in gradients at the plus ends of growing cortical microtubules and that this tip accumulation is typically sensitive to the growing state of the microtubule. Not all observed microtubules labeled with SPR1:GFP displayed pronounced accumulation at the growing end. For instance, interphase cells were sometimes observed in which most microtubules showed a more even distribution of label (Figures 5A and 7B). Such cells tended to be in tissue that had been wounded or mounted for extended periods of time (data not shown). There also was no clearly observed bias in the distribution of label within the phragmoplast, mitotic spindle, and preprophase band arrays (Figures 5D to 5F). In time-lapse images of these arrays (see Supplemental Movies S8 to S10 online), short dashes of label could occasionally be seen in one to three consecutive image frames, but this limited information made it difficult to determine if these were end-labeled polymers or fragmented polymers. The spr1-6 mutation (Col ecotype background) was originally called sku6-1. Because the sku6-1 mutant exhibited similar phenotypes to the spr1-1 mutant (Ler ecotype background; CITATION), we performed a complementation analysis. When assayed for root skewing, the roots of F1 sku6-1/spr1-1 seedlings exhibited a definite left slanting waving pattern like that seen with wild-type Ler roots (Figure 8). Furthermore, F2 seedlings displayed approximately a 9:7 ratio of left slanting to right slanting roots, consistent with the independent assortment of two loci (70 left:66 right; null hypothesis of 9:7 ratio, χ2 = 1.39, P > 0.20; null hypothesis of 3:1 ratio, χ2 = 40.16, P < 0.0005). [[FIGURE]] Although these data suggested that sku6-1 and spr1-1 were not allelic and were segregating independently, the cloning of the corresponding mutations confirmed that they both disrupted the same gene. The spr1-1 allele was the result of a deletion that removed the beginning portion of the SPR1 gene, and the spr1-1 mutant phenotype was rescued by a genomic fragment carrying the SPR1 gene (CITATION). Moreover, CITATION isolated five spr1 alleles, all of which contained mutations within the SPR1 gene. We used primers flanking the spr1-1 deletion as well as primers specific to the spr1-6 T-DNA to confirm that the spr1-6 by spr1-1 cross was a success (data not shown). Given that both spr1-1 and spr1-6 seedlings contained no SPR1 transcripts (CITATION; Figure 4), it is likely that both are null alleles. Therefore, to explain the complementation data, we hypothesize that two independent modifiers exist, one with a dominant allele in the Col background (i.e., genotype A/A b/b) and the other with a dominant allele in the Ler background (i.e., genotype a/a B/B). These modifiers produce left slanting roots when dihybrid (A/a B/b) in a spr1-6/spr1-1 null background. However, when either or both of these modifiers is homozygous recessive (A/- b/b, a/a B/-, or a/a b/b) in a spr1-6/spr1-1 null background, the resultant phenotype is right-skewing roots. According to this hypothesis, one would expect that one-sixteenth (6.25%) of the spr1-6 by spr1-1 F2 plants would be double homozygous dominant for the modifiers (A/A B/B) and would produce homozygous left slanting F3 families of plants. Indeed, we found that five out of 89 F2 plants (5.6%) produced F3 families that were homozygous left slanting (χ2 = 0.06, P > 0.8). This data does not fit the 1:3 ratio one would expect associated with a single modifier (χ2 = 30.77, P < 0.0005). Moreover, 45 of the 89 F3 families proved to be heterozygous and, as expected, were segregating either 9:7 left:right skewing (F2 parental genotype of A/a B/b) or 3:1 left:right skewing (F2 parental genotype of either A/A B/b or A/a B/B). The remaining 39 of 89 F2 plants (43.82%) that had right-skewing roots all gave rise to F3 families that were homozygous right skewing, which is very close to the expected 7/16th ratio (43.75%). Previously, CITATION reported that cortical microtubules in spr1-1 root elongation zone cells were oriented in left-handed oblique arrays instead of being transversely oriented like in the wild type. They hypothesized that the orientations of cortical arrays govern the direction of cell expansion; thus, oblique arrays caused the spr1-1 root axial twisting phenotype. To determine if spr1-6 elongating root cells also had left-handed obliquely oriented microtubule arrays, we grew spr1-6 and wild-type seedlings on vertical 0.8% agar-solidified GM for 5 d at 22°C, fixed the tissue, and stained for tubulin using whole-mount immunofluorescence. Under our conditions, the cortical microtubule arrays within spr1-6 elongating root cells were mostly transverse and on average were slightly right-handed oblique instead of left-handed oblique throughout the entire distal and main elongation zones, even though the spr1-6 roots had been twisting as they grew (Table 1, Figures 9A to 9C). This average microtubule pitch angle was statistically indistinguishable from the wild type (Table 1). When spr1-6 seedlings were grown at 16°C, which causes a more severe spr1-6 right-handed root axial twisting phenotype, the microtubule pitch angle in elongation zone cells was, on average, slightly left-handed oblique and statistically different from that of the wild type (Table 1, Figure 9D). However, many of the spr1-6 roots (16 out of 39) had a majority of elongation zone cells with transverse and/or right-handed obliquely oriented arrays. Moreover, even though wild-type and spr1-6 average microtubule pitch angles were comparably small, there was a big difference in the relative average amounts of wild-type and spr1-6 root cell file rotation (Table 1). [[FIGURE]] To determine whether, under our conditions, antimicrotubule drugs induced right-handed obliquely oriented microtubule arrays, as CITATION and CITATION reported for propyzamide, we examined cortical microtubules in spr1-6 and wild-type roots that were growing vertically on 0.8% agar-solidified GM containing either 3 μM propyzamide or 0.1 μM oryzalin. Both drug treatments often created right-handed obliquely oriented microtubule arrays in spr1-6 and wild-type elongating root cells (Figures 9E and 9F; data not shown).
!~MM~! An activation tagging collection of 62,000 lines in the Col-0 ecotype was generated using the SKI15 vector as described by Detlef Weigel (CITATION) and has been deposited in the ABRC as accession number CS31100. The root waving assay and quantification of organ growth were performed as described by CITATION and CITATION. Propyzamide and oryzalin were obtained from Chem Service (West Chester, PA). Molecular and bacterial clone manipulations were performed using standard procedures (CITATION). DNA fragments flanking the T-DNA were cloned as described by CITATION and CITATION. RNA gel blots were probed with the SPR1 open reading frame amplified from the EST clone 139B17 as described by CITATION. A 2.5-kb XhoI fragment from the BAC clone F19B11 (obtained from the ABRC) carrying the SPR1 gene was cloned into the pBluescript KS+ vector using standard procedures. The SPR1:GFP construct pJS1 was made as follows. A fragment containing SPR1 coding sequences and 0.8-kb upstream sequences was PCR amplified using the XhoI pBluescript KS+ clone as a template and primer T7 along with a primer located at the end of the SPR1 ORF (5′-GGGGGATCCCGGGGCTAGCTTGCCACCAGTGAAGAGATAATC-3′). This PCR product was digested with EcoRI and BamHI and cloned into pZero-2.1 (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA; clone A). The T3 primer along with a SPR1-specific primer located at the end of the SPR1 ORF (5′-CCCTGGATCCAAGTAAAATAATTGCAAAGACCT-3′) were used to amplify 0.7-kb downstream sequences from the XhoI pBluescript clone. This PCR product was digested with BamHI and Asp718 and cloned into pZero-2.1 (clone B). The BamHI/Asp718 fragment B was then introduced into clone A to make clone AB. An NheI/BamHI EGFP fragment from the pEGAD vector (CITATION) was next introduced into clone AB to make clone ABC, and the ABC fragment was cut out of pZero-2.1 with EcoRV and Asp718, then cloned into the SmaI and Asp718 sites of the binary vector pBIB (CITATION) to make pJS1. Clone pJS1 was introduced into spr1-6 plants using Agrobacterium tumefaciens (CITATION). Four-day-old wild-type and spr1-6 seedlings that had been growing on a vertical 0.8% agar-solidified GM in Petri dishes within a Percival CU36L5 incubator (22°C, 16 h light; Percival, Perry, IA) were transferred to the same medium with or without a particular antimicrotubule drug and allowed to grow vertically for an additional 3 d before being fixed and subjected to the whole-mount immunofluorescence protocol described by CITATION. Cold treatment was performed by growing seedlings on vertical 0.8% agar-solidified GM for 8 d within a Percival E54B incubator (16°C, 24 h light) before fixation. A mouse anti-α-tubulin monoclonal antibody B-5-1-2 (Sigma T5168, 1:1000 dilution; St. Louis, MO) and a rabbit anti-mouse IgG-fluorescein isothiocyanate secondary antibody (Sigma F9137, 1:200 dilution) were used as probes. Confocal images of root tips were acquired with a Zeiss LSM 510 confocal microscope attached to a Zeiss Axiovert 100M inverted microscope (Jena, Germany) equipped with 40× and 63× oil immersion objectives. Image SXM imaging and analysis software was specially adapted by Steve Barrett (http://www.ImageSXM.org.uk/) to handle the LSM 510 images on a Macintosh G4 computer. Confocal imaging of living plants was performed essentially as described by CITATION and by CITATION. Image analysis and quantitation was performed in NIH Image (Wayne Rasband) and in customized software developed in the Matlab computing environment (CITATION). Movies of image time series were created in Adobe After Affects software (Mountain View, CA). Sequence data for this article has been deposited with the EMBL/GenBank data libraries under accession number AY464947 (SPR1).
