!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis Shrunken Seed 1 (SSE1) gene encodes a homolog of the peroxisome biogenesis factor Pex16p, and a loss-of-function mutation in this gene alters seed storage composition. Two lines of evidence support a function for SSE1 in peroxisome biogenesis: the peroxisomal localization of a green fluorescent protein-SSE1 fusion protein and the lack of normal peroxisomes in sse1 mutant embryos. The green fluorescent protein-SSE1 colocalizes with the red fluorescent protein (RFP)-labeled peroxisomal markers RFP-peroxisome targeting signal 1 and peroxisome targeting signal 2-RFP in transgenic Arabidopsis. Each peroxisomal marker exhibits a normal punctate peroxisomal distribution in the wild type but not the sse1 mutant embryos. Further studies reported here were designed toward understanding carbon metabolism in the sse1 mutant. A time course study of dissected embryos revealed a dramatic rate decrease in oil accumulation and an increase in starch accumulation. Introduction of starch synthesis mutations into the sse1 background did not restore oil biosynthesis. This finding demonstrated that reduction in oil content in sse1 is not caused by increased carbon flow to starch. To identify the blocked steps in the sse1 oil deposition pathway, developing sse1 seeds were supplied radiolabeled oil synthesis precursors. The ability of sse1 to incorporate oleic acid, but not pyruvate or acetate, into triacylglycerol indicated a defect in the fatty acid biosynthetic pathway in this mutant. Taken together, the results point to a possible role for peroxisomes in the net synthesis of fatty acids in addition to their established function in lipid catabolism. Other possible interpretations of the results are discussed.
!~RES~! The SSE1 coding region was fused in-frame to the C terminus of GFP and placed under the control of cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. Agrobacteria carrying this construct were used to infiltrate the flowers of sse1/+ heterozygous plants. Fourteen sustainable transgenic lines were generated. Of these, seven were sse1/+ heterozygous and seven were sse1/sse1 homozygous lines as indicated by PCR (CITATION). Although these homozygous lines have reduced fertility compared to the wild-type plants, the GFP-SSE1 fusion protein complements both the shrunken seed and the lethal phenotypes (Fig. 1A) of the sse1 mutant and is therefore functional. Two complemented sse1/sse1 homozygous lines were randomly selected and cotyledons from young seedlings were observed in a confocal microscope. In both cases, organelles containing the GFP-SSE1 fusion protein varied in their sizes. The prominent ones were much bigger than expected for peroxisomes, and their frequencies often did not exceed one per cell (Fig. 1B and data not shown). Similar distribution of GFP-SSE1 was also observed in developing embryos from four randomly selected transgenic lines of either sse1/sse1 or sse1/+ genotypes (Fig. 1B). As revealed in root cells by fluorescence microscopy, the green fluorescent organelles do not match the 4′-6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) stained nuclei (Fig. 1B, see electronic version for higher resolution) and are therefore different structures. Unlike the fusion protein, GFP alone was cytosolic (data not shown), as reported previously (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Overexpression of plant peroxisomal membrane proteins has been reported to cause peroxisome clustering (CITATION). Moreover, overexpression of YlPex16p in the yeast Y. lipolytica resulted in fewer enlarged peroxisomes (CITATION). This result suggested that the GFP-SSE1-containing organelles might be peroxisomal aggregates or enlarged peroxisomes. Most peroxisomal matrix proteins are directed into the organelle through one of two conserved targeting signals (PTS) located either at the C terminus (PTS1) or at the N terminus (PTS2). The C-terminal 10 amino acids of pumpkin (Cucurbita cv Kurokawa Amakuri) malate synthase contain the PTS1 signal and are sufficient to direct β-glucuronidase into peroxisomes in Arabidopsis (CITATION). We therefore fused the DNA fragment encoding this peptide to the C terminus of red fluorescent protein (RFP-PTS1). We also fused the predicted PTS2 sequence from Arabidopsis 3-ketoacyl-CoA thiolase (CITATION; CITATION; GenBank accession no. AB008854) to the N terminus of RFP (PTS2-RFP). Each of these two RFP-labeled peroxisomal markers was introduced into transgenic plants to visualize peroxisomes. In young +/+ or sse1/+ seedlings, the two RFP markers revealed numerous peroxisomes in each cell. An example of RFP-PTS1 distribution in root hair cells is shown in Figure 1C. In addition, the two RFP markers allowed visualization of peroxisomes in developing Arabidopsis embryos (Fig. 1C for PTS2-RFP, and data not shown), where peroxisomes had not been previously observed. Because transgenic line 3 had GFP-SSE1-labeled organelles in all tissues examined, the two peroxisomal markers were introduced separately into this line to test the peroxisomal localization of SSE1. In contrast to the normal pattern of peroxisome distribution, many cells of line 3 seedlings contained only one enlarged peroxisome (or peroxisomal aggregate) per cell as revealed by both RFP markers. Figure 1D shows an example of a single RFP-PTS1-labeled peroxisome (or peroxisomal aggregate) in a root hair cell. Similarly, reduction in number and increase in the average size of peroxisomes were also observed in developing embryos of line 3 (compare Fig. 1D and 1C), although the effect in embryo was not as dramatic as in seedling. The distribution of RFP-labeled peroxisomes in line 3 resembled that of GFP-SSE1, and superimposed images of GFP and RFP confirmed that SSE1 colocalizes with each peroxisomal marker (Fig. 1D). Therefore, SSE1 is targeted to peroxisomes, and overexpression of this protein changes peroxisome distribution. We also used electron microscopy (EM) to examine peroxisomes in cotyledons and true leaves from young seedlings. In contrast to the typical peroxisomes in wild-type plants (Fig. 2A), aggregates of approximately 20 peroxisomes were found in the EM sections from line 3 (Fig. 2, B–D). Frequently, neighboring peroxisomes were fused to one another (Fig. 2, C and D). These aggregates are likely the large green fluorescent organelles observed by fluorescence and confocal microscopy (Fig. 1, B and D). Single peroxisomes corresponding to the relatively smaller green fluorescent structures were also observed by EM (data not shown). In addition, chloroplasts in the transgenic plants appeared to have less organized thylakoid membranes (Fig. 2B). This might be a consequence of the abnormal peroxisomal distribution, as the two organelles are normally closely positioned as they carry out coordinated functions such as photorespiration. [[FIGURE]] The RFP-PTS1-labeled peroxisomes could be observed in +/+ or sse1/+ embryos by fluorescent microscopy. However, the sse1 mutant embryos from the same sse1/+ lines did not have a detectable RFP signal (Fig. 3A). The fusion protein was possibly degraded in the mutant when it was unable to localize to peroxisomes. The other marker, PTS2-RFP, also demonstrated the lack of normal peroxisomes in sse1 (Fig. 3B). In contrast to its punctate distribution pattern in heterozygotes, PTS2-RFP had a diffuse distribution in sse1, suggesting that it is located either in the cytosol or in small structures that may be remnants of peroxisomes. The fact that neither the PTS1 nor PTS2 constructs revealed peroxisomes indicates that the sse1 mutant probably has lost most peroxisomal functions, as have yeast and human pex16 mutants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Peroxisomes are also present in mature wild-type Arabidopsis embryos. Although the background RFP signal (nonspecific localization of the fusion protein to the protein bodies) became stronger as the embryos matured, the signal from the peroxisomes was more intense and could easily be recognized (Fig. 3C, see electronic version for higher resolution). [[FIGURE]] If peroxisome biogenesis occurs during embryogenesis, peroxin genes should be expressed in developing seeds. We have shown previously that the expression of the SSE1 gene in whole siliques increases as the seeds mature (CITATION). In order to measure peroxin gene expression from seed tissues exclusively, seeds from 7 days after fertilization (DAF) until full maturation were used for gene expression analysis. The mRNA levels of eight peroxin genes were compared among seeds, flower buds, seedlings, and emerging leaves by use of a semiquantitative reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR). These genes were detected in all tissues, and, for most of them, the steady state mRNA levels in mature seeds were at least as high as that in developing seeds (Fig. 4). In addition, all eight genes were strongly expressed in flower buds, indicating that high peroxisome activities might be present in this tissue. By contrast, the mRNA level of Leafy Cotyledon 1 (LEC1), a global regulator of embryogenesis, decreased continuously in seeds after the early cotyledon stage and was barely detectable in seedlings, flower buds, or leaves (CITATION). Another control gene, Actin 2 (ACT2), was constitutively expressed in all tissues and developmental stages tested (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To understand the reduction of oil content in sse1, we compared the time courses of oil accumulation in developing wild-type and sse1 embryos. Because the opposite changes in starch and oil contents in sse1 seeds may have a cause and effect relationship (CITATION), we analyzed the time course of starch accumulation as well. Embryos of various developmental stages were separated from endosperm and seed coats, and those sse1 embryos with clear developmental delays were not used (see below and Supplemental Fig. 1S, which can be viewed at www.plantphysiol.org). At 9 DAF, starch levels were still low in both mutant and the wild type, while the sse1 mutant already had detectably higher amounts of starch (0.08 ± 0.03 μg/embryo in wild type and 0.25 ± 0.11 μg/embryo in sse1). During the seed filling period, sse1 accumulated starch at elevated rates, and the period of net starch degradation started later than in wild type. As a consequence, the starch level in the sse1 mutant at 22 DAF (mature embryo) was much higher than the peak level in the wild type at 13 to 15 DAF. In contrast to starch, the oil time course had an opposite trend in sse1. Severely reduced oil contents and decreased rates of oil accumulation were observed throughout the seed filling period in sse1 (Fig. 5A). To rule out the possibility that the low rate of oil accumulation in sse1 was simply a consequence of increased carbon flux into starch, we assessed the effect of abolishing starch synthesis on the production of oil in sse1. As shown in Figure 5B, although starch accumulation was prevented by introducing the starch synthesis mutants adg1 (CITATION; CITATION) or pgm1 (CITATION, CITATION) into the sse1 background, the levels of oil in the sse1adg1 or sse1pgm1 double mutants and the sse1 single mutant (all in the C24 and Col hybrid background) were indistinguishably low, less than 10% of that in wild type C24 or Col. These results demonstrated that the low rate of oil deposition in sse1 was not caused by the increased starch synthesis. Indeed, the loss of carbon from the oil pool was more striking than the gain of carbon in the starch pool (Fig. 5, A and B) and, Suc, the major carbon source used for the synthesis of both oil and starch, accumulated in mature sse1 seeds (Fig. 5C). [[FIGURE]] In order to determine the location of the block in the sse1 oil deposition pathway, we fed sse1 developing embryos radiolabeled oil synthetic precursors and measured their incorporation into oil. The biosynthetic pathways for oil and starch diverge after the synthesis of Glc-6-phosphate (Glc6P). Conversion of Glc6P to Glc-1-phosphate by the plastidial phosphoglucomutase commits the carbon flux to starch. Cytosolic or plastidial glycolysis followed by acetyl-CoA formation in plastids, on the other hand, directs the carbon flux toward fatty acids, which are then used to synthesize oil or other lipids. Because starch synthesis is elevated in sse1 embryos, the defect in oil deposition should be downstream of Glc6P on the oil branch and possibly causes shifted carbon flux toward starch. As expected, oil in the sse1 embryos incorporated small amounts of label from Glc (Fig. 5D), which enters fatty acid biosynthesis upon conversion to Glc6P by hexokinase. Control experiments showed that Glc was taken up and incorporated into starch, cell wall, and proteins (80% ethanol insoluble fraction) in both the wild-type and the sse1 embryos (Fig. 5E). Pyruvate and acetate, which are converted to the downstream precursor acetyl-CoA by the plastidial pyruvate dehydrogenase and acetyl-CoA synthase, respectively, also failed to support oil synthesis in sse1 embryos (Fig. 5D). However, both pyruvate and acetate were taken up and metabolized by the sse1 embryos as efficiently as the wild type (Fig. 5E). In contrast to these results, oleic acid was able to support oil synthesis in sse1 embryos at rates at least as high as that of the wild-type embryos (Fig. 5D). The capability of sse1 to synthesize oil from fatty acids but not acetyl-CoA suggests impaired fatty acid synthesis. This is likely to be the direct cause of the reduced oil content in sse1 seeds. It has been shown previously that plants can incorporate fatty acids into their membranes from tween-fatty acid esters (CITATION). To determine whether shortage of fatty acids is also the cause of other developmental defects in sse1, we grew sse1 seedlings on culture medium supplemented with Tween 80 (polyoxyethylene sorbitan esterified to oleic acid). After being dissected from their seed coats, about 40% to 70% of mature sse1 embryos could develop into small seedlings. In the absence of exogenous fatty acids, the sse1 mutant seedlings exhibited little root and shoot growth. The shoot appeared to contain one to three leaf-like small structures that failed to expand or turn green (Fig. 6). In the presence of Tween 80, about 10% of sse1 seedlings produced many small green leaves with a water-soaked and translucent appearance. Elongated roots were sometimes observed in seedlings grown on Tween 80 (data not shown). In the control wild-type seedlings, Tween 80 did not affect seedling growth (Fig. 6). Thus, limited fatty acid synthesis at least partially explains the growth defects of the sse1 mutant. [[FIGURE]] The fatty acid composition of triacylglycerols was compared between sse1 and wild-type seeds (Table I). C16, C18, and C20 fatty acid chains as percentage of total fatty acids were similar between sse1 and wild-type seeds. However, sse1 seeds exhibited approximately two-fold reductions in the saturated fatty acids 18:0 and 20:0 and the polyunsaturated fatty acids 18:2 and 20:2, but modest increases in the monounsaturated fatty acids 18:1 and 20:1 and the polyunsaturated fatty acid 18:3. For unknown reasons, sse1 contained a much higher proportion than wild-type seeds of the ω7 series of monounsaturated fatty acids. The saturated fatty acid 18:1 (ω7) was only 1.1% and 20:1 (ω7) 1.2% of the total fatty acids in wild-type seeds as compared to 6.5% and 8.8%, respectively, in sse1 seeds. Even though the total amount of fatty acids (μg seed−1) was reduced approximately seven-fold in sse1 seeds (Fig. 5B), the levels of 18:1 (ω7) and 20:1 (ω7; μg seed−1) in sse1 seeds were close to that in the wild-type seeds (approximately 0.1 μg seed−1 each). Fatty acid composition of wild-type C24 and sse1 mutant seeds The sse1 and wild-type embryos of various developmental stages were compared. The sse1 embryos exhibited an impaired greening process. At late torpedo and early cotyledon stages (at 8 DAF; Fig. 7A), the wild-type embryos turned green, while sse1 embryos stayed yellow-white. In a population segregating for approximately 90% of sse1/sse1 and 10% of sse1/+ genotypes (CITATION), the few green sse1/+ embryos could be distinguished from the sse1/sse1 majority (Fig. 7A). In addition, sse1 embryos exhibited various degrees of developmental delay during early morphogenesis. By 8 DAF, most wild-type embryos entered late torpedo or early cotyledon stage, whereas about 50% of 8-DAF sse1 embryos were still at the early torpedo or heart stage (Fig. 7A). Throughout the seed-filling period, the developmentally advanced sse1 embryos appeared to be smaller than the wild type (Fig. 7B), and this size difference persisted into the mature seed stage (Fig. 7C). Comparison in a transmission light microscope revealed smaller cotyledon areas and thinner hypocotyls in 11-DAF sse1 (Fig. 7B). Both the reduction in storage products and the growth deficiency may restrict sse1 embryo expansion. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! All seedlings used were grown on petri dishes containing 0.5× Murashige and Skoog salt supplemented with minimum organics (Sigma, St. Louis), 1% or 2% Suc, and 0.8% agar. When indicated, Tween 80 was added to 0.1%. Embryos were separated from seed coats under a dissecting microscope with two sterile needles. Before dissection, seeds were surface sterilized and soaked in water for several hours or overnight. The sse1 and wild-type control seedlings in Figure 6 were incubated in dim light (2–4 μE m−2 s−1) under a 12-h-light and 12-h-dark cycle. All the other seedlings were grown under continuous light of 35 μE m−2 s−1 intensity. The developing seeds were obtained from soil-grown plants in a greenhouse where the light cycle varies with the seasons. For construction of the sse1adg1 and sse1pgm1 double mutants, the heterozygous sse1/+ plants were used as paternal parents and the starchless mutants (obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center, Ohio State University, Columbus, OH) as maternal parents. F1 seedlings were confirmed by their kanamycin resistance (CITATION) and the F2 plants homozygous for the adg1 or pgm1 allele and heterozygous for the sse1 allele were identified as those individuals that exhibited kanamycin resistance but did not show I2 staining of starch in rosette leaves (CITATION). The F3 shrunken seeds from these F2 plants are the desired sse1adg1 or sse1pgm1 double mutants. A fragment of SSE1 cDNA from the second codon to 41 bp downstream of the stop codon was excised from the cDNA clone (CITATION) by HindIII and SspI digestion and blunt ended with Klenow. This fragment was cloned into the EcoRI site (blunt ended) of the pEGAD vector (CITATION), and the SSE1 coding region was placed downstream to and fused in frame with the GFP coding region. This is the GFP-SSE1 construct. The RFP gene with human-optimized translational codon usage (similar to plant optimization) was excised from the peak12-synrfp-s87 plasmid (E. Park and B. Seed, unpublished data) and cloned between the CaMV 35S promoter and the nopaline synthase 3′ region in a pUC19-based vector. The resulting YL10 plasmid was used to make the two peroxisomal marker constructs. A PTS1 fragment corresponding to the last 10 amino acids from the pumpkin (Cucurbita cv Kurokawa Amakuri) Malate Synthase gene (CITATION) was made by annealing the two synthesized primers PTS1-F (5′-TGTACATCCATCATCCCAGGGAGCTGTCCAGGCTGTGAGCTC-3′) and PTS1-R (5′-CACAGCCTGGACAGCTCCCTGGGATGATGGAT-3′). The BsrGI and SacI sites (underlined) were added at the N and C termini of PTS1-F, respectively. The PTS1 fragment was fused to the C terminus of RFP in YL10 to create the RFP-PTS1 plasmid. For the construction of PTS2-RFP plasmid, the N-terminal 135 bp of the Arabidopsis KAT2 (GenBank accession AB008854) coding region including the predicted PTS2 was isolated by RT-PCR, using primers KAT2.109 (5′-CAGTCTAGAATCATGGAGAAAGCGATCGAGA-3′) and KAT2.243 (5′-TTGTCCATGGATAGTGGAGTCCTATGTGC-3′). An XbaI and a NcoI site (underlined) were included in KAT2.109 and KAT2.243, respectively. The PTS2 fragment was ligated with the XbaI- and NcoI-digested YL10 and fused in frame to the N terminus of RFP. The P35S-RFP-PTS1-NOS3′ or P35S-PTS2-RFP-NOS3′ expression cassettes were excised from corresponding plasmids by EcoRI (blunt-ended) and HindIII digestion and subsequently cloned into the binary vector pCambia1301 between BstEII (blunt-ended) and HindIII sites, resulting in pCAMB-RFPPTS1 and pCAMB-PTS2RFP, respectively. A Nikon TE200 fluorescence microscope (Tokyo) or a Leica TCSNT confocal microscope (Wetzler, Germany) was used to observe GFP and RFP. For fluorescence microscopy, the fluorescein isothiocyanate filter sets (excitation/emission) for GFP (460–500 nm/510–560 nm), RFP (528–553 nm/600–660 nm), or DAPI stained nuclei (379–401 nm/435–485 nm) were used. For confocal microscopy, a 480 to 500 nm wavelength of excitation and 510 to 550 nm (GFP), 580 to 620 nm (RFP), or 605 to 685 nm (chloroplast) wavelengths of emission were used. Seedlings grown on petri dishes were observed directly under the fluorescence microscope for RFP-labeled peroxisomes in roots. For other observations, plant materials were transferred onto slides, submerged in 50% glycerol, and covered with coverslips. Embryos were dissected from seed coats before observation. For DAPI staining of nuclei, seedlings were submerged in 1 μg mL−1 DAPI and 0.2% Triton for 1 h to stain the nuclei. For electron microscopic observation of peroxisomes, cotyledons or true leaves from young seedlings were cut into 1 to 2 mm squares in 4% paraformaldehyde and 2% glutaraldehyde in 0.1 m cacodylate buffer (pH 7.2). After being prefixed for 2 to 16 h in the same solution and postfixed for 2 h in 1% osmium tetroxide and 0.1 m cacodylate buffer (pH 7.2), samples were dehydrated through an ethanol series and imbedded in Spurr's resin. Thin sections were stained with uranyl acetate and lead citrate before being observed under a transmission electron microscope. In each feeding experiment, 20 developing seeds (seed coats were not removed) were incubated in 100 μL of feeding buffer for 16 to 18 h under continuous light. The feeding buffers were: 34 mm [U-14C]Glc at 0.32 Ci mol−1 in 100 mm HEPES (pH 7.4); 1 mm [2-14C]pyruvate at 0.68 Ci mol−1 in 100 mm HEPES (pH 7.4); 1 mm [1-14C]acetate at 1 Ci mol−1 in 100 mm HEPES (pH 7.4); and [1-14C]oleic acid at 0.9 Ci mol−1 in 100 mm potassium phosphate (pH 7.4). Extraction and thin-layer chromatography separation of triacylglycerol were as described in CITATION. The amount of 14C isotope incorporated into triacylglycerol was determined by scintillation counting. To determine the amount of precursor taken up by the embryos (the proportion remaining in the embryos), embryos were rinsed with water and ground before scintillation counting. To determine the amount of precursor incorporated into starch, cell wall, or protein, embryos were rinsed with water and ground in 0.5 mL 80% ethanol. After 40 min incubation at 70°C and centrifugation, the unincorporated precursor was removed as the soluble fraction. The pellet was rinsed with another 0.5 mL 80% ethanol before measuring the amount of incorporated 14C isotope by scintillation counting. Fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) derivatization and extraction was carried out on 10 to 20 seeds (Fig. 5B) or 10 to 30 dissected embryos (depending on developmental stage; Fig. 5A) that were ground in a 10-μL glass test tube with a glass rod. The ground materials were incubated in a sealed glass vial with 0.7 mL of 1 n methanolic HCl containing 3.5 μg of myristic acid at 85°C for 2 h. Following the addition of 0.7 mL each of hexane and 0.9% NaCl, the FAME was extracted to the hexane phase. The hexane phase was transferred to a 0.5-μL tube and concentrated to about 100 μL under a flow of nitrogen. The FAME was quantified by gas chromatographic-mass spectrometry using a HP5890 Series II gas chromatograph (Agilent Technologies, Burlington, MA) equipped with a Supelcowax SP-10 capillary column (Supelco, Bellefonte, PA) attached to a HP-5971 mass spectrometer (Agilent Technologies). The gas chromatograph oven temperature was programmed to be maintained initially at 150°C for 2 min, then to rise to 200°C at 10°C min−1 with a hold at 200°C for 4 min, subsequently to rise to 240°C at 5°C min−1 with a hold at 240°C for 3 min, finally to rise to 270°C at 10°C min−1 with a hold at 270°C for 5 min. The carrier gas flow rate was maintained at 0.8 mL min−1. The quantity of each fatty acid was determined by comparison with the myristic acid internal control. For the starch content assay, 10 to 20 seeds (Fig. 5B) or 15 to 40 dissected embryos (depending on developmental stage; Fig. 5A) were homogenized in 150 μL of 80% ethanol and incubated at 70°C for 2 h to dissolve the soluble sugars. After centrifugation, the starch-containing pellet was rinsed twice with 150 μL of 80% ethanol. The pellet was vacuum dried and starch was solublized in 50 μL of 0.2 n KOH for 1 h at 95°C. After addition of 5 μL of 2 n acetic acid and centrifugation, 35 μL of supernatant was combined with 15 μL of water and 50 μL of starch assay reagent (Sigma) and incubated at 60°C for 15 min. The reaction mixture was transferred to a 1-cm light path cuvette and mixed with 0.5 mL of Glc assay buffer containing 50 mm Tris (pH 7.8), 1.5 mm NAD, and 1 mm ATP. The background A340 was determined after 3 to 5 min. After further incubation with 1.25 units of hexokinase and 0.67 units of Glc 6-phosphate dehydrogenase for 10 to 15 min, the production of NADH was measured spectrophotometrically at 340 nm. For quantification of Suc, soluble sugar was extracted from 50 seeds and vacuum dried. Suc was quantified using a Suc assay kit from Sigma. Embryos of different developmental stages were separated from siliques and RNA was isolated according to CITATION and CITATION except that RNA was precipitated with 2 m LiCl on ice for 1 h. One microgram of the DNase treated RNA was used in a 20-μL RT reaction at 42°C using Superscript RTII (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) as the RT and oligo(dT)18 as the primer. Subsequently, 0.5 μL of the same RT mixture was used in each 20-μL PCR reaction to amplify different cDNA fragments. The PCR reactions were carried out for 30 to 40 cycles and 8 μL of each product was checked in a 1% agarose gel. The primers FP7 and FP14R were used to amplify SSE1 (AtPEX16) cDNA (CITATION). The primers used for the other peroxin genes were: PEX1-5′: 5′-GACGTGATGGAAACAGAAG-3′; PEX1-3′: 5′-TTGACGAGGCTCTTTCTTG-3′; PEX3-5′: 5′-CTTGCTGATTTGGAACGAG-3′; PEX3-3′: 5′-CATCCGTGAAGCACTTGAG-3′; PEX5-5′: 5′-GATGAGAGACCTTGTTAACG-3′; PEX5-3′: 5′-TCACACCATGTTGTTGCTC-3′; PEX7-5′: 5′-TCAGTCCATTCTACGAGTC-3′; PEX7-3′: 5′-CTCTGTATGATGATCATACC-3′; PEX10-5′: 5′-CAACAATGGTGAATAAAGCTC-3′; PEX10-3′: 5′-TGTGATCATAGCCTTTTGAAG-3′; PEX12-5′: 5′-AGAAGATGTTGTTTCAGGTG-3′; PEX12-3′: 5′-ATTGATACCACCATTCCATC-3′; PEX19-5′: 5′-GAACAGTCACACCGATGAC-3′; and PEX19-3′: 5′-CACATGATACAGCAATTTGG-3′. The primers for LEC1 gene are: LEC1-5′: 5′-CAACAACCCAACCCCAATG-3′; LEC1-3′: 5′-CCATCTTCACTTATACTGAC-3′. The primers for ACT2 gene are: ACT2-5′: 5′-AAGAGATAATCCAGGAGATTC-3′; ACT2-3′: 5′-CAAGGAGAGAACAGCTTGG-3′. Sequence data from the this article have been deposited with the GenBank data libraries under accession numbers AB008854 (KAT2), U41998 (ACT2), and AC013484 (LEC1), and as indicated in Mullen et al. (2001a) for PEX genes.
