!~ABS~! ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters are membrane proteins responsible for cellular detoxification processes in plants and animals. Recent evidence shows that this class of transporters may also be involved in many other cellular processes. Because of their homology with human multidrug resistance-associated proteins (MRP), cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) and sulfonylurea receptor (SUR), some plant ABC transporters have been implicated in the regulation of ion channel activities. This paper describes an investigation of the AtMRP4 gene and its role in stomatal regulation. Reporter gene studies showed that AtMRP4 is highly expressed in stomata and that the protein is localized to the plasma membrane. Stomatal aperture in three independent atmrp4 mutant alleles was larger than in wild-type plants, both in the light and in the dark, resulting in increased water loss but no change in the photosynthetic rate. In baker's yeast, AtMRP4 shows ATP-dependent, vanadate-sensitive transport of methotrexate (MTX), an antifolate and a substrate of mammalian MRPs. Treatment with MTX reduced stomatal opening in wild-type plants, but had no effect in atmrp4 mutants. These results indicate the involvement of AtMRP4 in the complex regulation of stomatal aperture.
!~RES~! The longest AtMRP4 cDNA insert isolated from a cDNA library (CITATION) lacked the first 726 bp. Following gene predicitions by CITATION), and our own structural alignments of the entire AtMRP gene family (CITATION), we found no intron in the missing 726 bp at the 5′ end. The 5′ sequence was therefore obtained by PCR amplification of genomic DNA and inserted upstream of the AtMRP4 cDNA, such that the entire DNA sequence was identical to GenBank entry AF243509. The open-reading frame (ORF) of the AtMRP4 cDNA encodes a protein of 1516 aa residues with a predicted molecular weight of 169 kDa. Hydropathy profile consensus prediction using the ARAMEMNON membrane protein database (CITATION) predicts 15 transmembrane helices, organized in three transmembrane domains (TMD0–TMD2, see Figure 1). The two ABCs of AtMRP4 resemble those typical for ABC proteins (CITATION). Each consists of a c. 200 aa domain, comprising the Walker A (GxxGxG) and Walker B (T/IYLLD) motifs of ATP-binding sites (CITATION) and the ABC signature (CITATION). As found for most AtMRPs, AtMRP4 also contains a perfect N-terminal ABC signature and a degenerated C-terminal ABC signature with matches in five of the eight conserved amino acid positions (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] RT-PCR analysis of AtMRP4 expression in different tissues revealed that this ABC transporter is expressed in low amounts in all tissues tested (Figure 2a; CITATION). In order to obtain a more detailed picture of AtMRP4 expression, promoter fusions between 2 kbp of the 5′ untranslated region (UTR) of AtMRP4 and the uidA gene encoding β-glucuronidase (GUS) were constructed and used to transform Arabidopsis plants (Figure 2b, i–vi) or for particle-gun-mediated transient expression in Vicia faba leaves (Figure 2b, vii). The promoter fragment corresponds to the entire UTR between At2g47790 and At2g47800. In seedlings grown in permanent light or darkness (Figure 2b, i and iv), GUS expression was detected in primary roots and the basal region of hypocotyls close to the root–shoot interphase. No GUS activity was detected in root hairs. Interestingly, GUS activity was generally absent from the root tips of light-grown seedlings, while high GUS activity was observed in root tips of etiolated seedlings. For GUS staining, seedlings were exposed to 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-glucuronic acid (X-Gluc) for 3 h. When incubation was allowed to continue for 24 h, the entire seedling showed GUS-specific staining (data not shown) confirming the RT-PCR results. In different leaf types, GUS activity, driven by the AtMRP4 promoter, was variable. This was illustrated by different intensities of blue staining observed in cotyledons (Figure 2b, i) and three rosette leaves of independent transgenic lines (Figure 2b, ii), which are representative of the staining patterns found in our transformants. In rosette leaves, petioles were stained in several cases. In cotyledons and rosette leaves, GUS activity was often unevenly distributed. In some, but not all, cases, the vascular tissue of cotyledons and rosette leaves exhibited higher GUS activity than the surrounding tissue. Irrespective of these irregular staining patterns, high GUS activity was always detected in the guard cells of cotyledons, rosette leaves, cauline leaves, hypocotyls, stems, and the fused carpel walls. In flowers, high GUS activity was found in the sepals (but not in the petals) and in the filaments (but not in the stamens or pollen sacs; Figure 2b, v). Young carpels generally stained strongly at the style, while GUS activity in the carpel walls increased during ripening of the silique (Figure 2b, v and vi). In order to verify the specificity of the high GUS activity in guard cells, epidermal strips of V. faba leaves were bombarded with particles coated with promoter–GUS fusion constructs. GUS activity driven by the AtMRP4 promoter was unequivocally observed in the guard cells of V. faba leaves (Figure 2b, vii). In addition, transgenic Arabidopsis plants, transformed with a T-DNA carrying a fusion of the AtMRP4 promoter and the green fluorescent protein (GFP), exhibited high GFP fluorescence in guard cells (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Analysis of AtMRP4 using the ARAMEMNON database (CITATION) predicts the presence of a chloroplast-targeting signal with average to high probability. To determine precisely the intracellular localization of AtMRP4, an enhanced version of the GFP (EGFP) was inserted into the AtMRP4 cDNA within an intracellular loop separating the predicted transmembrane helices 14 and 15. This particular location of EGFP was chosen to minimize interference with the catalytic active cytoplasmic nucleotide-binding folds of AtMRP4. Confocal microscope analysis of onion epidermal cells transiently expressing AtMRP4–EGFP showed fluorescence at the periphery of cells, suggesting that AtMRP4 protein is located at the plasma membrane. The vacuolar GFP marker KCO1, a component of the slow-vacuolar K+ channel (CITATION; CITATION) was used as a control (Figure 2b, viii). KCO1–GFP labeled the tonoplast surrounding the central vacuole, but not the cytoplasm, which is largely restricted to a region surrounding the nucleus (arrow in Figure 2b, viii). These labels clearly distinguish the tonoplast and the plasma membranes. This also confirms the observation that AtMRP4 is localized on the plasma membrane (Figure 2b, ix). In some onion cells bombarded with AtMRP4–EGFP, dense vesicles, filled with GFP fluorescence (arrows in Figure 2b, ix), were observed. These may have been caused by the high activity of the CaMV 35S promoter used to drive the GFP fusion, overloading the cells' secretory pathway with excessive quantities of fusion protein. Bombardment of onion epidermis with atTOC159–GFP, a component of the outer envelope protein import machinery of chloroplasts (CITATION; kindly provided by F. Kessler, University of Neuchatel, CH), assured the presence of plastids in these cells. Fluorescence signals were visible on a large amount of intracellular structures mainly close to the plasma membrane and appeared clearly different from AtMRP4–GFP signals (M. Jasinski and E. Martinoia, unpublished observation; data not shown). We concluded that AtMRP4–GFP is not associated with plastids. Seedlings transformed with AtMRP4–EGFP showed high levels of fluorescence in both the root and the shoot. As observed in bombarded onion tissue, fluorescence in the root epidermis (xi) and leaf stomata (xii) was restricted to the cells' periphery. Vector-transformed control plants revealed no GFP fluorescence (data not shown). To verify these data immunologically, Arabidopsis microsomes were separated by linear sucrose gradient density centrifugation and probed with monoclonal anti-GFP antibodies. Results showed a single band of the expected size (c. 200 kDa) in gradient fractions 9–12 (sucrose concentrations between 42 and 50%). AtMRP4 co-localized with the plasma membrane-bound P-type H+-ATPase (Figure 2c), while markers for other membranes, such as the vacuolar V-type H+-ATPase or BIP, an ER-specific marker, were found in other fractions (Figure 2c). T-DNA insertion mutants were identified for the AtMRP4 gene (At2g47800) in collections of T-DNA-transformed Arabidopsis lines obtained from Arabidopsis Stock Centers (ABRC at Ohio State, USA, and NASC, University of Nottingham; Kolukisaoglu, Möller, Sieber, Zeidler, Schulz, unpublished). Sequence analysis of PCR fragments identified T-DNA insertions at positions +5609 (atmrp4-1), +1545 (atmrp4-2), and +6067 (atmrp4-A; Figure 1a). Only one T-DNA insertion was located within the coding region of AtMRP4 (atmrp4-2). Insertions in atmrp4-1 and atmrp4-A were found 57 and 662 bp downstream of the stop codon, respectively. Both T-DNA insertion sites were defined by sequence analysis of the appropriate PCR products. Surprisingly, the insertion in atmrp4-2 caused a deletion of AtMRP4 sequence from −588 to +1545, removing a significant portion of the putative promoter region, as well as the entire TMD0, and most of TMD1 domains. Database searches of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Genetrap DB (CITATION) resulted in identification of mutant line atmrp4-3 (ET 1399), which bears a dissociation (Ds) element in the 10th exon of AtMRP4. Upon integration of the Ds element, a duplication of AtMRP4 sequences +5311 to +5378 occurred at the insertion site. The atmrp4-1 and atmrp4-2 insertion mutants were backcrossed to the wild type. The phenotype of atmrp4 co-segregated with insertions in AtMRP4 (as verified by PCR and selection on media containing appropriate antibiotics). The number and structure of T-DNA insertions, or Ds elements, in single lines was confirmed by Southern blot analysis. atmrp4-1 was found to contain only a single T-DNA insert, whereas atmrp4-2 lines showed two independent T-DNA insertions. These T-DNAs could not be separated by backcrossing with the wild type, thus revealing their close proximity. PCR and Southern blot analysis, as well as growth on media containing kanamycin as selection marker for the Ds element inserted in atmrp4-3, allowed the isolation and establishment of lines homozygous for the disrupted AtMRP4 gene. As the T-DNA insertion of atmrp4-A did not show any phenotypic alteration, possibly because of its location of more than 600 bp downstream of the AtMRP4 stop codon, this line was not subjected to further analysis. RT-PCR experiments performed on total RNA extracted from aerial parts of soil-grown Arabidopsis showed that the AtMRP4 transcript did not accumulate in homozygous atmrp4-1, atmrp4-2, and atmrp4-3 lines. This result suggests that the atmrp4-1 and atmrp4-3 mRNAs are unstable when the insertion is either close to the stop codon (atmrp4-3) or right in front of the polyadenylation signal (atmrp4-1). These findings concur with the observation that all atmrp4 mutant lines display identical mutant phenotypes. The strong expression of AtMRP4 in guard cells prompted the question whether the absence of AtMRP4 leads to changes in stomatal movement. In a first experiment, leaves were excised from dark-adapted plants of all mutants and the corresponding wild types. The leaves were placed on 20 mm KCl and 0.5 mm CaCl2 in the light (to promote stomatal opening) for 2.5 h and subsequently incubated in the dark on the same medium for a further 4 h. Microscopic measurements of epidermal peels revealed that, irrespective of the light conditions, the stomatal aperture (data not shown), as well as the calculated width to length ratio of the stomatal pore, was larger in atmrp4-1, atmrp4-2, and atmrp4-3 mutants than in the corresponding wild types (Figure 3a). [[FIGURE]] In order to verify that the knockout in AtMRP4 does not affect the density or spacing of stomata in the abaxial epidermal layer, the stomatal frequency, based on more than 800 stomata per genotype (four plants per genotype, six different leaves per plant), was calculated. The mutants atmrp4-1 (178 ± 24 stomata mm−2), atmrp4-2 (176 ± 29 stomata mm−2), and atmrp4-3 (128 ± 26 stomata mm−2) were compared with the respective wild types Wassilewskija (Ws-2) 174 ± 45 stomata mm−2 and Landsberg erecta (Ler; 129 ± 27 stomata mm−2). Results showed no significant difference between the stomatal density in the mutants and their corresponding wild types. Interestingly, the Ler ecotype shows fewer stomata per unit surface area than Ws-2. This is consistent with our observation that, in drying experiments, Ler loses fresh weight (FW) more slowly than Ws-2 (data not shown). Stomatal pore width is controlled by a large number of endogenous and ecological parameters. One of the most prominent effectors of stomatal aperture is the water stress hormone ABA, which normally triggers stomatal closure and inhibits opening in the light. In order to investigate whether the increased stomatal aperture in atmrp4 was caused by insensitivity to ABA, leaves from dark-adapted atmrp4-2 and atmrp4-3 were incubated for 2.5 h, in the light, in the presence of 10 µm ABA. Mutant stomatal pore widths were measured and compared to the corresponding wild type. ABA inhibited the opening of stomata in the light in wild-type and atmrp4 mutant plants (Figure 3a, inset). In addition, stomata of atmrp4-2 mutants closed after application of ABA in the light (width/length ratios of stomata before ABA application: Ws-2, 0.43 ± 0.02; and atmrp4-2, 0.63 ± 0.01; after 2 h, ABA-application: Ws-2, 0.24 ± 0.01; and atmrp4-2, 0.14 ± 0.01). We concluded that the increased aperture of atmrp4 mutants was not the result of changes in sensitivity to ABA. In this respect, atmrp4 mutants behaved very differently to atmrp5 mutants, which are insensitive to ABA (CITATION). Stomatal pore size was also investigated on the leaves of intact plants in a growth chamber. The width of Ws-2 and atmrp4-2 stomatal apertures was compared before and after exposure to light under controlled conditions (Figure 3b). Leaves were detached from intact 6-week-old Ws-2 and atmrp4-2 plants, 30 min before and 90 min after exposure to light. Leaves were examined and stomatal apertures measured immediately upon detachment. At the end of the dark period (30 min before exposure to light), stomatal apertures in dark-adapted atmrp4-2 plants were clearly larger than in Ws-2. Likewise, stomata of atmrp4-2 were larger than those of Ws-2 after 90 min of light irradiation (Figure 3b). Thus, differences in stomatal pore width, resulting from changes in light conditions, occurred regardless of whether the leaves remained on the plant, or were excised and exposed to KCl. It was therefore hypothesized that atmrp4 mutants would experience increased water loss, and that atmrp4 mutants should exhibit lower δ13C values compared to Ws-2 plants. It is well established that ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) effectively discriminates between 13CO2 and 12CO2 (CITATION). When stomata are open, gas exchange between the leaf intercellular space and the atmosphere is optimal, and Rubisco preferentially fixes 12CO2, leading to a stronger discrimination (more negative δ13C values in plant dry matter). In contrast, when stomata are closed, diffusion of atmospheric CO2 (Ca) into the intercellular leaf space is restricted, leading to a decrease in the CO2 concentration in the leave (Ci), and the probability that Rubisco fixes 13CO2 increases. Stable carbon isotope ratios were analyzed in dry material collected from rosette leaves of single Ws-2 and atmrp4-2 plants. Leaves were separated into fractions of 10 ‘younger’ leaves and 10 ‘mature’, fully expanded leaves by counting from the top of the rosette. Fully expanded leaves of atmrp4-2 indeed exhibited a statistically not significant tendency to lower δ13C values, when compared to the wild type, while no difference was observed in ‘younger’ rosette leaves (Figure 3c). Younger leaves are less likely to exhibit significant differences in δ13C values than mature leaves, as the carbon isotope signature of bulk leaf material represents a time-integrated signal, and only a small fraction of the carbon of young leaves is derived by their own photosynthesis. Therefore, the observation that atmrp4 exhibited increased stomatal pore sizes under growth chamber conditions was reflected by a decrease in the corresponding δ13C/12C values. Taken together, these observations suggest that atmrp4 has an increased rate of stomatal transpiration, and that atmrp4 plants would be consequently less tolerant to drought stress conditions than wild type. As mutations in AtMRP4 affect the regulation of stomatal aperture, one might expect the mutant plants to display a different rate of transpiration and water loss. To investigate whether AtMRP4 plays an important role during drought stress response, water loss was measured using two methods. Firstly, a time-course of FW loss was measured in excised rosettes of soil-grown plants. As expected for leaves with greater pore apertures, atmrp4-1 and atmrp4-2 plants displayed increased water loss compared to the wild type (Figure 4a). [[FIGURE]] Secondly, water loss and wilting was analyzed over several days in intact mature plants, as they desiccated after cessation of watering. Figure 4(b) shows plants, after 13 days of drought. All mutant plants (alleles atmrp4-1–atmrp4-3) wilted earlier than the corresponding wild types. However, the wilting phenotype in all atmrp4 individuals was less severe than in the classical ABA-insensitive (abi)1 mutant, (compare abi1 and atmrp4-3, Ler background). Single atmrp4 plants grown in soil also displayed earlier wilting than the wild type (data not shown). Loss of water from individual plants in saran-wrapped pots leaving only the foliage exposed to the atmosphere was also accelerated for atmrp4 plants when compared to wild-type plants (Figure 4c). Transpiration rates in intact wild-type and atmrp4-2 plants were measured using gas exchange analysis of individual leaves, under various environmental conditions (Figure 5). In the first set of experiments, changes in the transpiration rate were investigated while shifting plants from darkness to light (400 µmol photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) m−2 sec−1) and back to darkness. The experiment began with dark-adapted plants at 400 p.p.m. CO2. Switching light on and off induced an increase and a decrease in transpiration rate, respectively (Figure 5a), reflecting stomatal opening and closing, respectively. Analysis of steady-state levels of transpiration revealed that atmrp4-2 had significantly higher (1.4-fold) transpiration rates in the light, as compared to the wild type. In the dark, a slight, though statistically insignificant, increase in transpiration rate was observed in the mutant compared to the wild type. Linear (light on) and exponential fitting (‘light on’ and ‘light off’), with first-order exponential functions, was used to analyze the kinetics of transitions between steady states for each curve (Figure 5b,c). The analysis showed that switching on the light induced a faster increase in transpiration rate in atmrp4-2, than in the wild type, suggesting that stomatal opening, in response to light, occurs more quickly in the mutant. However, no significant differences between the wild type and mutant were observed when the time constant for the closing reaction (light off) was calculated. This result suggested that the effect of the mutation in AtMRP4 is not restricted to absolute changes in stomatal pore size, but also effects the kinetics of stomatal opening. [[FIGURE]] As the ABA response, as discussed previously, was not affected in atmrp4, the capacity to close and open stomata in the light, in response to increases or decreases in Ca (ambient CO2 partial pressure), was investigated. Experiments were designed to include quick, drastic changes in Ca (e.g. from 1200 p.p.m. CO2 to nominally 0 p.p.m.) as well as step-by-step changes (Figure 5d). At high Ca(>800 p.p.m. CO2), no significant difference in the transpiration rate between the wild type and mutant was observed, indicating that the capacity to close the stomata in response to high CO2 was not affected by the mutation. In contrast, at Ca values of 400 p.p.m. CO2 or less, atmrp4-2 exhibited a clearly higher transpiration rate (1.6-fold higher at nominally 0 p.p.m. CO2) than the wild type. Therefore, the absence of AtMRP4 did not alter stomatal closure in response to high Ca, but did enhance opening at low Ca. Using the patch-clamp technique, changes in stomatal aperture and transpiration rates were investigated in relation to alterations in the activities of known guard cell ion channels, located at the plasma membrane. However, although the inwardly and outwardly rectifying potassium channels, as well as the slowly activating ABA-induced anion channel, were detected, no changes in their activities were observed between atmrp4 and wild-type guard cells (data not shown). It was therefore concluded that AtMRP4 does not act independently as an ion channel nor does it directly control channel activities, e.g. by physical interaction. However, we cannot exclude that the effects of AtMRP4 disruption on ion channel activities are too weak to be detected. MRPs are known to be ATP-dependent membrane transporters for diverse amphiphilic organic anions. In our hands, heterologous expression of AtMRP4 under control of various promoters in the Δycf1Δbpt1 strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, which lacks detectable vacuolar glutathione conjugate transport activity (CITATION; CITATION), failed to produce measurable ATP-dependent transport of the model organic anions 2,4-dinitrobenzene-glutathione and estradiol-17-(β-d-glucuronide). Recently, it was proposed that AtMRP4, like AtMRP1, could function as a high-capacity pump for folates and the antifolate drug MTX (CITATION). Indeed, ATP-dependent uptake of tritiated MTX into microsomes isolated from Δycf1Δbpt1 yeasts transformed with full-length AtMRP4 is 2.1-fold higher than that into microsomes of empty vector-transformed yeasts (Figure 6a). Vanadate is the classical inhibitor of ABC-type transport processes. In the presence of vanadate, both the AtMRP4 transport and control transport activities were reduced to the same level arguing for the presence of additional transport mechanisms in yeasts, which cannot be attributed to ABC proteins. The difference of the vanadate-sensitive MTX-transport activity between microsomes from AtMRP4 transformants and empty vector transformants is consequently even higher (factor 3.6). We conclude that heterologously expressed AtMRP4 acts as a MTX transporter. [[FIGURE]] MTX inhibits folate synthesis at the dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) step (CITATION; CITATION). Although no information is available as to why plants should pump folates across the plasma membrane into the extracellular space, the mutation in AtMRP4 was investigated to determine whether it could perturb folate homeostasis in guard cells, leading ultimately to the stomatal phenotypes observed in atmrp4. The effects of increased concentrations of MTX on stomatal opening in the light were therefore investigated (Figure 6b). Light-induced stomatal opening in wild-type plants was significantly reduced in the presence of 10 µm (to approximately 80% of opening in the absence of MTX). In contrast, light-induced stomatal opening in atmrp4-2 was not affected by MTX. Furthermore, the application of up to 100 µm MTX in the dark did not alter stomatal pore size in Ws-2 or atmrp4-2. In contrast, folic and folinic acid had no effect on light-induced opening in wild-type and mutant plants (data not shown). It was therefore concluded that light-induced stomatal opening was partially inhibited by the antifolate drug MTX, and that this inhibition was dependent on the presence of AtMRP4.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana plants were grown on soil in growth chambers with either 8- or 16-h light period (21°C; relative humidity 70%; 200 µmol m−2 sec−1 PAR). If not stated otherwise, plants were watered twice a week. Plant material for all physiological experiments was grown on soil for 3 weeks, and then single plants were transferred into new pots. Single plants were grown in the phytotron with 8 h of light and were used 3 weeks after transfer. V. faba plants were grown for 3 weeks in a greenhouse. The cDNA of AtMRP4 was isolated by screening a size-selected Arabidopsis cDNA library (CITATION). Based on the sequence information of expressed sequence tag (EST) 147I22T7 (Accession number U96399) and the genomic AtMRP4 sequence deposited by CITATIONAccession number AJ002584), an intron-less, 397-bp, AtMRP4-specific, PCR-amplified fragment starting from position +1581 was used as a radiolabeled probe. Clone pBSC-MRP4-2 was found to contain the longest ORF of AtMRP4 but lacking the first 726 bp. The 5′ end of AtMRP4 was cloned by PCR on genomic DNA using the Expand High Fidelity PCR System (Roche, Rotkreuz, CH). Using a NotI restriction site that was located in the upper primer (UP; 5′-gct gcggccgc a gtcgaccccggg atg tgg ttg ctt tcg tct tct cca tg; underlined are NotI, SalI, and XmaI sites, respectively; lower primer (LP) 4A-a) and an AtMRP4 endogenous BamHI site (bp 1.548 of the amplified 5′ end), the first 822 bp of the incomplete AtMRP4 ORF in pBSC-MRP4-2 were exchanged bp 1–1.548 of AtMRP4, resulting in vector pBSC-MRP4-full. An RGSH6 motif and a NotI site (underlined) were added to the C-terminus of AtMRP4 by exchanging the very last 71 bp of its 3′ end with the insert of clone pGEM-71 using an endogenous SnoI site (bp 4.377). Therefore, the 3′ end of pBSC-MRP4-2 was amplified by PCR (UP, 5′-agg aag cag gag ttg ttt aga caa gag; and LP, 5′-cat ctcgag gcggccgc tctaga tca gtg atg gtg atg gtg atg aga acc acg tat tcg ggc aga tcg gag) and cloned into pGEM-T Easy (Promega, Wisconsin, USA), resulting in pGEM-71. NotI–SnoI and SnoI–NotI fragments were excised from pBSC-MRP-full and pGEM-71, respectively, and a three-point ligation into pYES-2 (Invitrogen, Basel, CH) resulted in pYES-MRP4. The entire insert was sequenced to verify the absence of PCR errors. Total RNA from Arabidopsis soil-grown plants was prepared using the RNeasy Plant Kit (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany). DNaseI (Qiagen) treatment was performed with column-bound RNA. Oligo-dT-primed cDNA from 1 µg of total RNA was synthesized using the Reverse Transcription System (Promega). Transcripts specific for AtMRP4 and 40S ribosomal protein S16 (Accession number F19995) were detected by PCR for 25–30 cycles at 52°C annealing temperature. RT-PCR primers used were: 4B-s, 4B-a (see below); S16-UP, 5′-ggc gac tca acc agc tac tga; and S16-LP, 5′-cgg taa ctc ttc tgg taa cga. Five micrograms of total RNA and equal volumes of PCR products were separated on 1% formaldehyde and 2.5% native agarose gels, respectively, and fluorescence of ethidium bromide-stained bands was quantified using the scion image software, version 3.62a (http://www.scioncorp.com). Negative controls in the absence of enzyme in the RT reaction yielded no products. Absence of genomic DNA contaminations was further verified by fragment size determination as the 4B-s/4B-a amplification product spanned an intron. The 5′ UTR of AtMRP4 (positions −1996 to −1 relative to the start codon) was amplified by PCR using DNA from bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clone F17A22 (Accession number AC005309) as a template and the High Fidelity Expand PCR Kit. Primers used were: UP, 5′-cac ctt gcc gtt tca gcg aaa ttg; and LP, 5′-ttt tcc cag tga aaa aat at. The PCR product was cloned into the pENTRY D-TOPO vector according to the manufacturer's instructions (Invitrogen), resulting in pENTR-MRP4Pr in which the sequence of the promoter fragment was verified. This construct served as the entry vector to transfer the promoter fragment into promoterless-GUS and -GFP reporter vectors via the GATEWAY™ system using the LR reaction according to the manufacturer's instructions. The binary destination vectors used were pMDC102 (GFP6) and pMDC108 (GUS; CITATION), resulting in pM102-MRP4Pr and pM108-MRP4Pr, respectively. Wild-type A. thaliana Ws-2 plants were transformed by floral dipping using Agrobacterium strain GV3101 (CITATION). More than 40 T1 transformants for each construct were selected on half-strength MS medium agar plates containing hygromycin for 7 days and were subsequently transferred to fresh sterile agar plates without antibiotic until the reporter gene was visualized (8-h light period or complete darkness). Biolistic bombardment into V. faba guard cells with pM108-MRP4Pr was performed as described by CITATION). GUS activity was assayed as described by CITATION) using 2 mm X-Gluc (Biosynth, Stadd, Switzerland) as substrate. Incubation at 37°C was stopped after 3 h. GUS staining of whole seedlings was analyzed using a Nikon SMZ1500 binocular, and pictures were taken with a Nikon Coolpix camera. Detailed GUS analysis was performed with a Leica DMR microscope equipped with a Leica DC300 F charge coupled device (CCD) camera and controlled by Leica im1000 software (Leica, Heerbrugg, CH). Digital pictures were processed using adobe photoshop 7.0 software (Adobe Systems) without changing intensities or color properties. GFP transformants inspected by epifluorescence microscopy with a fluorescein isothiocyanate filter set exhibited GFP fluorescence in seedlings which was indistinguishable from the results of the GUS staining (data not shown). The AtMRP4 cDNA was subcloned NotI–NotI from vector pYES-MRP4 into vector pRTΩ (CITATION), resulting in pRTΩ–MRP4. The entire gene of an enhanced GFP version (EGFP) was PCR amplified (UP, 5′-act ggtacc gga gta aag gag aag aac ttt tca c; and LP 5′-agt ggtacc att tgt ata gtt cat cca tgc cat g) and inserted into the KpnI (bp 3.323) site of AtMRP4. The EGFP fusion was sequenced to verify the absence of PCR errors. The cassette containing the CaMV 35S promoter, AtMRP4–EGFP and the polyadenylation signal was excised with AscI and inserted into vectors pGPTV-bar (CITATION), and the resulting binary construct pGPTV–MRP4–GFP was used to transform Arabidopsis wild-type plants. Resistant transformants were selected on soil by BASTA watering (1 : 20 000). Homozygous transgenic Arabidopsis plants were grown for 5–7 days on MS plates under continuous light. Onion epidermis cell layers were transfected with construct pGPTV–MRP4–GFP using a low-pressure partical inflow gun. Transfected onion epidermis cells and young Arabidopsis seedlings were analyzed by confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM). FITC fluorescence using the corresponding filter sets was recorded, and then stored images were coloured green using adobe photoshop. Arabidopsis microsomes were prepared from light-grown liquid-shaking cultures and separated by continuous sucrose gradient centrifugation as described by CITATION). The anti-GFP antibody used was Living Colors a.V. (JL-8) Monoclonal Antibody (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA, USA). The full-length sequence of AtMRP4 was cloned NotI–NotI into the yeast expression vector pNEV (CITATION), resulting in pN-AtMRP4. pNEV, and pN-AtMRP4 were transformed into the Saccharomyces cerevisiae YMK2 strain (MATα ura3–52 leu2–3112 his6Δycf1::HIS6Δbpt1::LEU2; CITATION) by standard procedures. Isolation of yeast microsomal vesicles from yeasts grown in synthetic dropout (SD) selective medium and uptake experiments with [3′,5′,7-3H]methotrexate (Na salt; 292 GBq mmol−1, Amersham; final activity 1 µCi ml−1) using the rapid filtration technique (Durapore, Millipore) followed published protocols (CITATION). A collection of 32 880 T-DNA insertion lines available through the Arabidopsis Stock Centers at Ohio State (ABRC) and the University of Nottingham (NASC) were screened for an AtMRP4 knockout allele. To screen the entire gene region of AtMRP4 and non-translated 5′ and 3′ sequences of AtMRP4, a set of primers was designed (mrp4A-s, mrp4A-a, mrp4B-s, and mrp4B-a; Table 1). These primers were used in combination with T-DNA-derived border primers in PCRs with DNAs from T-DNA-transformed plants arranged in pools of 1000 plants. Subsequent rounds of re-amplification of PCR products and generation of hybridization probes were performed with nested PCR primers (mrp4An-s, mrp4An-a, mrp4Bn-s, and mrp4Bn-a) to avoid cross-reactions with the primary PCR primer sequences. T-DNA insertions in AtMRP4 were identified in Arabidopsis lines generated by CITATION; atmrp4-2) and CITATION; atmrp4-1 and atmrp4-A) and confirmed by sequencing of isolated PCR products, amplified with combinations of gene-specific and T-DNA border primers as described previously by CITATION). Individual lines, homozygous for the T-DNA insertions, were subsequently isolated from plant populations of 400 plants corresponding to positively scored DNA pools, which were derived from 20 plants each. Homozygous plants were identified by PCR amplification with a combination of gene-specific and T-DNA primers, heterozygous plants yielded additional PCR products with a combination of two gene-specific primers encompassing the respective T-DNA insertion (Table 1). Southern blot analyses were performed with T-DNA-specific as well as AtMRP4-specific DNA probes. Co-segregation of T-DNA insertion and mutant phenotype was ascertained by crossing homozygous atmrp4 mutant plants with the corresponding wild types. Segregation analysis of F2 progeny revealed 3 : 1 ratio for the dominant selection markers BASTA or kanamycin. Co-segregation was shown by proving PCR fragment amplification with combinations of gene-specific and T-DNA border primers only with DNAs from T-DNA-containing plants. Offspring of homozygous lines segregated in the F3 generation as 100% resistant plants, while hemizygous plants segregated again in a 3 : 1 ratio. An additional line (atmrp4-3) that contained a Ds insertion in the AtMRP4 gene was found in the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Genetrap DB (CITATION) by database searches (ET 1399). This insertion was verified in single lines by PCR using primer combinations lmrp4A-s and Ds5-4. The wild-type allele was detected by PCR with the primer combination lmrp4A-s and lmrp4A-a. Primers mrp4A-s and mrp4An-s in combination with Ds5-4 were used for generating probes and sequencing. Expression of AtMRP4 and the S16 gene as control in atmrp4 mutant as well as wild-type plants were performed with first-strand cDNA (30 cycles: 1 min at 94°C, 30 sec at 58°C, and 1 min at 72°C with end elongation after the last cycle) in an MJ Research PTC200 cycler. All measurements were started in the morning after 15–16 h of darkness. If not stated otherwise, leaves from a minimum of three independent single plants per genotype and experiment were detached and floated on 20 mm KCl and 0.5 mm CaCl2 in Petri dishes. Light-induced stomatal opening was analyzed after 2.5 h in the light (200 µmol m−2 sec−1) followed by 4 h in complete darkness in order to measure dark-induced closure. Parts of the abaxial epidermis were peeled off with sharp forceps, transferred into a drop of floating solution on a glass slide, and immediately processed for microscopical analysis of stomatal apertures. Bright-field pictures of stomata were taken with the Leica DMR/DC 300F setup. The width and length of the stomatal pores was determined using the measuring tool integrated in the im1000 software. MTX and ABA experiments were performed by adding the substance concentrations indicated at the beginning of the treatment in the light. In the case of MTX, the floating solution was buffered with 10 mm 2-morpholinoethanesulphonic acid (MES)–KOH, pH 5.8. A 10 mm MTX stock was prepared by dissolving the drug in the floating buffer. ABA (mixed isomers, Fluka) was dissolved as a 10 mm stock in MeOH. Stomata measurements of leaves from intact plants were performed by detaching the leaves, peeling off epidermal fragments, and microscopic image acquisition within less than 10 min. Samples were collected 30 min before the end of the dark night period and 90 min after the beginning of illumination. For the determination of stable carbon isotope ratio, rosette leaves of 6-week-old single plants were collected in two fractions: the ‘young leaves’ fraction consisted of the 10 youngest leaves counting from the last rosette leaf formed. Leaves were counted when they reached a length of 5 mm. The ‘mature leaves’ fraction contained the remaining, fully expanded leaves. All determinations were repeated twice, each with four independent replicates (plants) per genotype. Leaf material was dried in an oven at 70°C for 36 h and ground to a fine powder. The powdered material was then weighed into tin capsules and subjected to isotope ration mass spectrometry (IRMS) as described by CITATION). The continuous-flow IRMS system consisted of an elemental analyser (EA 1110, CE Instruments, Milan, Italy) connected to a gas isotope ratio mass spectrometer (DeltaPlus, Finnigan MAT, Bremen, Germany). Reference gases were calibrated to the Vienna Pee Dee Belemnite (V-PBD) standard using IAEA-CH-6 and IAEA-CH-7 as reference material (International Atomic Energy Agency, Vienna). The natural abundance of 13C in the samples is reported as follows: where R is the ratio of the mass 13/mass 12 for the sample and standard material, respectively. The standard deviation of repeated measurements of a laboratory standard was 0.10‰ for δ13C. Single-leaf gas exchange measurements were performed with LI-COR LI-6400 photosynthesis systems (DMP, Fehraltorf, Switzerland) equipped with light emitting diode (LED) light source 6400-02 fixed on top of the 6 cm2 standard cuvette/infrared gas analyzer (IRGA). Fully expanded leaves of comparable developmental status were chosen by counting the leaf number from the center of the rosette (in general leaves 8–10). Gas flow was adjusted to a constant rate of 0.25 mmol sec−1. CO2 partial pressure and light intensities were varied as indicated. Relative humidity was 60%, and the chamber temperature was set to 22°C. Measurements were started at fixed times using plants that were adapted to darkness for at least 16 h (night period). In this set of experiments, plants were grown in pots with equal amounts of soil. Water loss determinations from excised rosettes were carried out under standard conditions as described by CITATION). Soil water loss was determined by wrapping pots and the soil surface with saran wrap, leaving only the rosette leaves in contact with the atmosphere to reduce soil evaporation. Before irrigation was terminated, the plants were watered once more by drenching for 2 h. At the indicated times, the weight of the pots was determined. Water content was calculated as the ratio m(t)/DW where m(t) is the pot mass at time t, DW is the dry weight and were expressed as percentage of the initial value m(t0)/DW. Dry weights were obtained after incubation of the wrapped pots including the plant to complete dryness at 70°C for 7 days at the end of the experiment. Statistical analysis was performed using spss 11.5, and linear and exponential curve fitting was performed using sigmaplot version 8.02 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, USA).
