!~ABS~! We describe a proteomics method for determining the subcellular localization of membrane proteins. Organelles are partially separated using centrifugation through self-generating density gradients. Proteins from each organelle co-fractionate and therefore exhibit similar distributions in the gradient. Protein distributions can be determined through a series of pair-wise comparisons of gradient fractions, using cleavable ICAT to enable relative quantitation of protein levels by MS. The localization of novel proteins is determined using multivariate data analysis techniques to match their distributions to those of proteins that are known to reside in specific organelles. Using this approach, we have simultaneously demonstrated the localization of membrane proteins in both the endoplasmic reticulum and the Golgi apparatus in Arabidopsis. Localization of organelle proteins by isotope tagging is a new tool for high-throughput protein localization, which is applicable to a wide range of research areas such as the study of organelle function and protein trafficking. 
!~RES~! The basis of the LOPIT technique is outlined in Fig. 1. Organelles were prepared from Arabidopsis callus and partially separated according to their density using self-generating iodixanol gradients. Iodixanol is an alternative media to sucrose, which has the advantage of being able to form density gradients from homogenous solutions within a few hours of high-speed centrifugation. These self-generating gradients are extremely reproducible and simple to manipulate because their shape depends only on the starting iodixanol concentration and the centrifugation time (CITATION, CITATION). To determine the distribution of the ER and Golgi apparatus, gradient fractions were analyzed by Western blot, using antibodies against the ER marker AtSec12 and the Golgi marker gtl-6. The density gradient centrifugation only partially separated these organelles. Furthermore, proteomic analysis of the peak Golgi fraction, by SDS-PAGE followed by LC-MS/MS, resulted in the identification of ER and Golgi proteins, as well as numerous proteins from other compartments including the PM, mitochondria, and plastids, making it impossible to assign localizations to novel proteins (data not shown). In contrast, LOPIT involves the analysis of protein distribution across the gradients rather than the cataloguing of single fractions. This enables proteins from different organelles to be distinguished even if their distributions overlap. A comparison of fractions three and six, for example, could be used to distinguish ER and Golgi residents because the Golgi is more abundant in fraction six than in fraction three, while the ER exhibits the opposite distribution. By comparing the distributions of novel proteins to those of known organelle residents using the multivariate data analysis techniques PCA and PLS-DA, the subcellular localization of novel proteins can be determined.  [[FIGURE]] To determine the distributions of the proteins in the density gradient fractions, we utilized the cleavable ICAT reagents from Applied Biosystems. ICAT enables the relative quantitation of protein levels in two samples by MS (CITATION). In total, six pair-wise comparisons were performed across the density gradient. The integral membrane proteins in each fraction were enriched by subjecting the membranes to a high pH wash, which removes the majority of soluble and peripheral membrane proteins (CITATION). The proteins were then labeled with cleavable ICAT reagents, which specifically react with cysteine sulfhydryls. In each comparison, the least dense fraction was labeled with the light ICAT reagent and the denser fraction with the heavy reagent. The two fractions in each comparison were then pooled, and protein digestion followed by avidin affinity purification of the labeled peptides was performed. Each sample was then analyzed by LC-MS/MS, resulting in the confident identification and quantification of 170 proteins (see supplemental information). Of these proteins, 70% were predicted to be integral membrane proteins with 28% having two or more trans-membrane spans, re-confirming the applicability of ICAT technology to the analysis of hydrophobic integral membrane proteins (CITATION). Thirteen of the proteins identified have been previously localized to specific organelles in Arabidopsis, while a further 15 had predicted subcellular locations based on homology to proteins in other plants, animals, or yeast. These proteins are listed in Table I. For the purpose of validating the LOPIT technique, the remainder of this study focuses on this set of 28 proteins. A detailed discussion of the remaining proteins is beyond the scope of this article and will be reported elsewhere.  [[TABLE]] To validate the LOPIT technique, the localization of the predicted ER and Golgi proteins, listed in Table I, was attempted. Manual analysis of the large datasets generated in these experiments is time consuming and error prone. Therefore, PCA was used to condense the dataset and identify patterns within it (CITATION). In this case, PCA was used to reduce the six variable dataset (the six pair-wise comparisons) to a two-variable scores plot (Fig. 2). Principal component (PC) 1 (the x-axis in Fig. 2) is a best-fit vector that represents the greatest correlated variation in the dataset. PC2 (the y-axis in Fig. 2) represents the greatest variation at right angles to PC1, and is also the next most amount of correlated variation in the dataset. The scores for the two PCs for an individual protein describe the position of that protein in relation to these two new axes and the other proteins contributing to the model. Proteins that have similar distributions across the density gradient will cluster with one another in the PC scores plot. Although the two PCs represent variation across the total group analyzed, PC1 can be loosely defined as a measure of the likelihood a protein is either Golgi, mitochondria, or plastid localized (positive score in PC1) or found localized in the ER (negative score in PC1). In a similar manner, PC2 distinguishes mitochondrial and plastid proteins (positive scores) from Golgi proteins (negative scores).  [[FIGURE]] Fig. 2 clearly shows that the known ER and Golgi proteins form clusters that are distinct from one another and from the mitochondrial, plastid, and PM proteins. In this analysis, the predicted ER and Golgi proteins also cluster tightly with the known residents of their respective organelles, thus supporting the predicted localizations of these proteins. These results demonstrate that using this method it is possible to distinguish proteins that are localized to different subcellular compartments, without the need to purify individual organelles. We can also begin to assign the unknown proteins to subcellular compartments, because the majority of them cluster with the known organelle residents. The remaining proteins, which do not cluster with the marker proteins, may be residents of organelles for which no known resident proteins have been identified, such as the endosome. Alternatively, these proteins may be localized to multiple compartments.  In order to assess whether protein clustering was reproducible, the experiment was repeated using a second membrane preparation. A total of 114 of the proteins that were identified in the original experiment were also found in the repeat. The distributions of these proteins, in the two experiments, were again analyzed using PCA. Fig. 3 shows the PC1 scores obtained for each protein in the two repeats of the experiment. In each case, PC1 represents the maximum amount of correlated variation in the two PCA models. In both models, PC1 distinguished the combined group of the Golgi, mitochondrial, and plastid proteins from the ER proteins. The strong correlation observed between the original scores and those obtained in the repeat indicates that the clustering, and therefore the localization, of proteins by LOPIT is reproducible.  [[FIGURE]] Visual clustering of proteins based on their positions in the PC scores plot is a useful method for initial data analysis. However, the assignment of novel proteins to organelles requires a discriminate approach that can predict class membership. As a result, PLS-DA, which is a regression extension of PCA, was used. PLS-DA is a technique that can be used to predict the class membership of observations in a large multidimensional dataset based on a training set of observations with known class membership (CITATION). In this case, the 12 known ER, Golgi, and mitochondrial/plastid proteins identified in the first experiment were assigned to three classes and used to build a PLS-DA model (Q2 = 0.909), which was used to determine the localization of the remaining 158 proteins (see supplemental information). The PLS-DA scores for the proteins in the training (known localization) and test (predicted localization) sets are listed in Table I. Using the stringent cut-off described above, LOPIT confirmed the Golgi localization of five of the seven predicted Golgi proteins and five of the six predicted ER proteins. The remaining two predicted Golgi proteins are also very likely to be Golgi localized, given their high scores for Golgi localization, which fall just below the threshold, and their low scores for the other compartments. Ribophorin I, the sole predicted ER protein whose localization was not confirmed, has a high ER score of 0.63 but also a reasonable Golgi score of 0.43. This protein may be present in a different subdomain of the ER than the proteins in the training and test sets. ER membrane proteins continuously escape from the ER to the Golgi and are retrieved in retrograde vesicles (CITATION). The magnitude of the ribophorin I Golgi score could therefore reflect the steady state distribution of this protein, with the majority resident in the ER and a minority in the Golgi awaiting retrieval. 
!~MM~! A. thaliana liquid callus cultures expressing a myc-tagged version of gtl-6 were established and maintained as described (CITATION, CITATION). Approximately 60 g of callus were homogenized in homogenization buffer (0.25 m sucrose, 10 mm HEPES-NaOH, pH 7.4, 1 mm EDTA, 1 mm DTT) at 4 °C, using a polytron with a 94 PTA 10EC head attachment (Kinematica, Littav, Switzerland) for two pulses of 7 s. The homogenate was then centrifuged twice for 5 min at 2,200 × g. The supernatant was loaded onto a 6-ml 18% iodixanol cushion and centrifuged at 100,000 × g for 2 h in a SW28 rotor (Beckman Coulter, Fullerton, CA). Crude membranes were then collected from the interface and adjusted to 16% iodixanol. These membranes were then fractionated according to their density by centrifuging at 350,000 × g for 3 h in a VTi65.1 rotor (Beckman Coulter), during which time an iodixanol gradient is generated. Fractions of 0.5 ml were harvested from the top of the gradient using an Auto Densi-flow collection device (Labconco Corporation, Kansas City, MO).  Membranes from each density gradient fraction were diluted with 0.8 ml of cold deionized water, pelleted by centrifugation at 100,000 × g for 25 min in a TLA 100.3 rotor (Beckman Coulter) and resuspended in 600 μl of 4% SDS sample buffer. Then 7 μl of each fraction was heated at 60 °C for 3 min and then resolved on a 12% SDS-PAGE gel, processed for Western analysis according to Wee et al. (CITATION), and probed with rabbit anti-myc (A14, Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Santa Cruz, CA) and anti-Sec12 antibodies (a gift from S. Mogelsvang).  To remove soluble and membrane-associated proteins, 0.8 ml of cold 160 mm Na2CO3 was added to each density gradient fraction. After 30 min on ice, the washed membranes were pelleted as above. After removing the supernatant, the pellet was washed with 1 ml of cold de-ionized water and then re-pelleted by centrifuging at 100,000 × g for 10 min. The second supernatant was removed and the membrane pellets solubilized in 100 μl of labeling buffer (50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 8.5, 8 m urea, 2% Triton X-100, 0.1% SDS). The protein concentration of each fraction was then determined using the DC Protein Assay kit (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA). Using cleavable ICAT reagents (Applied Biosystems, Framingham, MA), six pair-wise comparisons were performed on the first 12 fractions collected, where 1 is the least dense fraction and 12 the most dense: 1 versus 4, 2 versus 5, 3 versus 6, 4 versus 7, 5 versus 8 and 7 versus 11 and 12 (which were pooled). For each comparison, the lighter fraction was labeled with the light ICAT reagent and the denser fraction with the heavy ICAT reagent. Labeling was performed according to the standard Applied Biosytems ICAT protocol (www.appliedbiosystems.com) with the following exceptions: labeling buffer (50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 8.5, 8 m urea, 2% Triton X-100, 0.1% SDS) was used in place of denaturing buffer (50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 8.5, 0.1% SDS); reduction was performed for 30 min at 20 °C; labeling was performed at 20 °C; excess ICAT reagents were quenched by the addition of 10 mm cysteine after labeling and then incubated at 20 °C for 30 min before pooling the samples; prior to digestion the pooled samples were diluted to 2 ml with 25 mm Tris-HCl, pH 8.5, 10 μg of modified trypsin were then added (Promega, Madison, WI); prior to the cation exchange step samples were diluted to 25 ml with 10 mm KH2PO4, pH 3, 25% ACN. After cleavage samples were resuspended in 25 μl of 2% ACN, 0.1% TFA.  Peptide separation by LC-MS/MS was performed using an Ultimate Nano-LC system (Dionex, Sunnyvale, CA) and a QSTAR XL Q-TOF hybrid mass spectrometer (Applied Biosystems). Samples (6.4 μl) were delivered to the system using a FAMOS autosampler (Dionex) at 30 μl/min, and the peptides were trapped onto a PepMap C18 pre-column (5 mm × 300 μm i.d.; Dionex). Peptides were then eluted onto the PepMap C18 analytical column (15 cm × 75 μm i.d.; Dionex) at ∼100 nl/min and separated using a 4-h gradient of 5–32% ACN. The QSTAR XL was operated in information-de pend ent acquisition mode, in which a 1-s TOF MS scan from 350–1,600 m/z, was performed, followed by 3-s product ion scans from 65–1,600 m/z on the two most intense doubly or triply charged ions. Each sample was analyzed three times to improve the quantitation accuracy and identification confidence.  MS data files were analyzed using ProICAT software version 1.0 service pack 2.0 (Applied Biosystems) and searched against the MIPS Arabidopsis protein database (ftpmips.gsf.de/cress/arabiprot/version 110903 containing 26643 entries). Peptides identified with less than 90% confidence were excluded. Multiple peptide matches resulting from the same MS/MS data were removed using Microsoft Access with the queries included in the ProICAT software. To further increase identification stringency, the proteins identified using ProICAT were verified by analyzing the MS data using MASCOT Daemon version 2.0.01 (Matrix Science, London, United Kingdom). Proteins with scores above 33 were identified with 95% confidence. Proteins positively identified by ProICAT but with MASCOT scores below this threshold were discarded. In addition, the 14 proteins with MASCOT scores below 40 were verified by manual inspection of the corresponding MS/MS spectra. ProICAT automatically measures the ratio of the heavy-labeled peptide to the light-labeled peptide. The heavy-to-light ratio for each protein is the mean ratio of its component peptides from the three MS runs. Only proteins with quantification information from at least four of the six ICAT comparisons were included in the final results table. Prediction of trans-membrane helices was performed using the web-based TMHMM software (www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TMHMM-2.0/) (CITATION).  The logged ICAT ratios obtained for each protein in the initial experiment and the repeat were imported into the SIMCA 10.0 package (Umetrics, Umea, Sweden) and pre-processed with mean centered scaling. The data was analyzed by principle components analysis (PCA) for the two experiments, and the proteins represented in two-dimensional scores plots. This approach summarizes the correlated variation in the dataset in an unsupervised manner, allowing the visualization of clusters within the dataset.  To measure the significance of these clusters in terms of the proteins of known sub-compartmentalization, the 12 known ER, Golgi, and mitochondrial/plastid proteins identified in the first experiment were then assigned to three classes and used to build a partial least squares-discriminant analysis (PLS-DA) model. This is a supervised pattern recognition approach that uses the class membership information (i.e. where a protein is localized) to maximize the separation between these proteins. The success of this approach was measured using a goodness of fit algorithm that produced a score (Q2) where 0 is no better than chance and 1 is the theoretical maximum for a component that explains all the variation in the data and correctly classifies the dataset. This model was then used to predict the localization of the remaining 158 proteins. The PLS-DA results consist of three values for each protein that indicate how well that protein fits the three localizations, where values closest to one indicate a good fit with the pattern associated with that localization. The lowest scoring known organelle resident in each class was used as the threshold for assigning confident organelle localizations to proteins. The thresholds were therefore 0.93 for the Golgi, 0.88 for the ER, and 0.83 for the mitochondria/plastid class. 
