!~ABS~! In the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe, the onset of septum formation is signalled via the septation initiation network (SIN) involving several protein kinases and a GTPase. Arabidopsis thaliana and Brassica napus proteins homologous to fission yeast spg1p (AtSGP1, AtSGP2), cdc7p (AtMAP3Kϵ1, AtMAP3Kϵ2, BnMAP3Kϵ1) and sid1p (AtMAP4Kα1, AtMAP4Kα2, BnMAP4Kα2) exhibit a significant similarity. The plant proteins AtSGP1/2 and BnMAP4Kα2 are able to complement the S. pombe mutant proteins spg1-B8 and sid1-239, respectively and to induce mutisepta when overexpressed in wild-type yeast. Yeast two-hybrid assays demonstrated interactions both between plant proteins and between plant and yeast proteins of the SIN pathway. However, the primary structure of the proteins as well as the partial complementation of yeast mutants indicates that plant homologous proteins and their yeast counterparts have diverged during evolution. Real-time RT-PCR studies demonstrated plant SIN-related gene expression in all organs tested and a co-expression pattern during the cell cycle, with a higher accumulation at G2-M. During interphase, the plant SIN-related proteins were found to co-localise predominantly in the nucleolus of the plant cells, as shown by fusions to green fluorescent protein. These data suggest the existence of a plant SIN-related pathway.
!~RES~! To identify plant genes that encode putative SIN components, fission yeast spg1 and sid1 sequences were used to screen the GenBank database using the Basic Local Alignment Search Tool. The Arabidopsis genome contains two homologues of each of the fission yeast genes, namely AtSGP1, AtSGP2, AtMAP4Kα1 and AtMAP4Kα2, which were amplified by PCR from an A. thaliana root cDNA library. The genes AtSGP1 and AtSGP2 (for Arabidopsis thaliana spg1-like Gprotein) are highly similar to the gene encoding the yeast GTPase spg1p (CITATION). AtSGP1 and AtSGP2 encode polypeptides of 290 and 292 amino acids, respectively, sharing 52% overall sequence identity. Spg1p from S. pombe showed sequence identities of 52% and 46% with AtSGP1 and AtSGP2, respectively (Fig. 2A). However, the plant and fungal proteins differ in their organisation in that the two plant proteins possess an amino terminal extension, consisting of 92 residues in AtSGP1 and 94 residues in AtSGP2, sharing 31% identity (Fig. 2A). The neighbour-joining dendogram shown in Fig. 2B indicates that spg1p and Tem1p from S. cerevisiae, GiTem1p from Giardia intestinalis and AtSGP1 and AtSGP2 constitute a new monomeric G-protein subfamily. None of these proteins possess the carboxyl-terminal CAAX prenylation motif, required for the association with cell membranes by lipid anchoring.   [[FIGURE]] Analysis of the AtMAP4Kα1 and AtMAP4Kα2 genes and their deduced protein sequences revealed that they are closely related to the sid1 gene (CITATION) (Fig. 2C). AtMAP4Kα1 and AtMAP4Kα2 encode protein kinases of 708 and 711 residues, respectively, belonging to the SOK group of MAP4Ks as illustrated in Fig. 2D. They show an overall identity of 78% and are highly similar to Brassica napus BnMAP4Kα1 and BnMAP4Kα2, previously reported by Leprince et al. (CITATION). In vitro kinase assays demonstrated that the BnMAP4Kα2 cDNA encodes a functional serine/threonine protein kinase with auto-phosphorylation activity, which is also able to phosphorylate myelin basic protein (data not shown). Fig. 2C shows that sid1p and the two AtMAP4Kα proteins from Arabidopsis share 50% identity over the catalytic domain, whereas they share 30% similarity over the short carboxyl-terminal domain. Moreover, the organisation of the plant proteins differs from that of sid1p by a non-catalytic carboxyl-terminal extension, consisting of 178 and 179 amino acids in AtMAP4Kα1 and AtMAP4Kα2, respectively (Fig. 2C). No significant similarities were observed between AtSGP1/2 or AtMAP4Kα1/2 and proteins from the fully sequenced genomes of Caenorhabditis elegans, Drosophila melanogaster and Homo sapiens. Hence, the genes and their corresponding proteins described in this study are designated as `plant-specific SIN-related components'. In fission yeast, the SIN pathway couples the end of anaphase with the initiation of cytokinesis (CITATION). The bioinformatical studies described here show that the plant SIN-related proteins are highly similar. Therefore, it was tempting to speculate that these plant proteins can complement the spg1 or sid1 yeast mutants by reconstituting a functional SIN pathway. To test this hypothesis, yeast complementation experiments, overexpression and two-hybrid assays were performed. The AtSGP1, AtSGP2 or BnMAP4Kα2 coding regions were linked to the thiamine-repressible nmt1 promoter in the vector pREP3ΔATG, and introduced into the spg1-B8 and sid1-239 mutant S. pombe strains. A comparison of the mutant phenotypes under permissive (Fig. 3A1,B1) and restrictive conditions (i.e. 36°C) showed that cells at 36°C failed to form septa (Fig. 3A2,B2). These cells go through additional nuclear division cycles without septation, leading to the production of elongated and multinucleated cells (CITATION; CITATION). By contrast, 4 hours after the shift to 36°C, the yeast cells expressing AtSGP1, AtSGP2 or BnMAP4Kα2 produced normal septa (Fig. 3A3,B3). In addition, about 10% of the yeast cells expressing AtSGP1 produced additional septum material at the cell tips (Fig. 3A3). A very similar phenotype was previously observed after complementation of the yeast cdc7-24 mutant by the plant BnMAP3Kϵ1 protein kinase (CITATION), which suggests that the two proteins transduce the same signal in S. pombe. No noticeable abnormalities were observed in cells containing either the constructs AtSGP1, AtSGP2 or BnMAP4Kα2 under non-inducing conditions (data not shown), or the empty pREP3ΔATG vector under inducing conditions (Fig. 3A2,B2).   [[FIGURE]] In fission yeast, overexpression of spg1 and cdc7, using the thiamine-repressible expression vector pREP3ΔATG, induces multiple rounds of septum formation without cell cleavage (CITATION; CITATION). In contrast, overexpression of sid1 does not compromise the signalling of cytokinesis (CITATION). In order to investigate further the role of the plant homologues of cdc7 (CITATION), spg1 and sid1 genes, we overexpressed the A. thaliana and B. napus proteins in the wild-type S. pombe background. Upon withdrawal of thiamine, growth of the yeast cells carrying the empty pREP3ΔATG plasmid was not affected (Fig. 4A1). In contrast overexpression of either AtSGP1 or BnMAP3Kϵ1 (i.e. homologues of cdc7) disturbed the formation of the septum in part of the cells, resulting in multiseptate cells (Fig. 4A2,A4). Furthermore, 50% of the septate cells overexpressing AtSGP2 showed abnormal cytokinesis, forming cells that were either multiseptate or uninucleate with one or more septa (Fig. 4A3). No abnormal phenotype was observed among the cells overexpressing BnMAP4Kα2 (Fig. 4A5). Cell populations overexpressing either AtSGP1 or BnMAP3Kϵ1 formed twice as many septa as wild-type cell populations (Fig. 4B). Conversely, cells carrying the BnMAP4Kα2 gene did not differ from the wild type with regard to the percentage of septum-forming cells. These results show that overexpression of either the plant BnMAP4Kα2 (this study) or sid1p (CITATION) does not affect the cytokinesis process, and that overexpression of the plant homologues of spg1p or cdc7p is able to control, at least partially, cytokinesis in fission yeast.   [[FIGURE]] Cdc7p and spg1p interact both genetically and physically (CITATION). Byr4p binds to cdc16p and spg1p (CITATION). In order to investigate a possible interaction between the plant SIN-related homologues and S. pombe SIN proteins, we performed yeast two-hybrid experiments. The assays based both on growth on medium lacking His and on β-galactosidase activities (Table 2), indicate an interaction between AtSGP1 or AtSGP2, and byr4p. Furthermore, we also detected positive interactions of cdc7p with either AtSGP1 or AtSGP2. Conversely, no interaction could be detected between BnMAP3Kϵ1 and spg1p. To test the ability of BnMAP3Kϵ1, AtSGP1 and AtSGP2 to interact, two-hybrid experiments were conducted. These experiments showed that BnMAP3Kϵ1, but not BnMAP3Kα1 or BnMAP3Kβ1, could interact with AtSGP1 in yeast (Table 2). No interaction was detected between AtSGP2 and BnMAP3Kϵ1 (Table 2), suggesting a functional difference between the two AtSGP proteins.   [[TABLE]] Thus the complementation of the yeast sin mutants by AtSGP1, AtSGP2 or BnMAP4Kα2 and the effects of the overexpression of these proteins and BnMAP3Kϵ1 on the division of yeast as well as their interactions in the yeast two-hybrid system with one another and with the yeast SIN proteins, provide complementary evidence that the plant SIN-related proteins are, in fission yeast cells, functional homologues of spg1p, cdc7p and sid1p. We measured the relative transcript level of AtSGP1/2, AtMAP3Kϵ1/2 and AtMAP4Kα1/2 genes in various Arabidopsis organs, using real-time RT-PCR (CITATION). The actin genes ACT2 and ACT8, amplified simultaneously, were used as a standard because of their `housekeeping' functions, and demonstrated stable expression profiles (CITATION). The AtSGP1, AtMAP3Kϵ1, AtMAP3Kϵ2, AtMAP4Kα1 and AtMAP4Kα2 genes were ubiquitously expressed, with slightly higher transcript levels in flower buds and mature flowers (Fig. 5A). In contrast, the AtSGP2 gene displayed a significant differential expression, with transcript levels 20 times higher in flower buds and 15 times higher in mature flowers than in other organs (Fig. 5A).   [[FIGURE]] Jouannic et al. previously showed that the AtMAP3Kϵ1 transcript levels are regulated during the cell cycle, showing a peak of expression at the G2-M phase transition (CITATION). In order to get an overview of the expression of each A. thaliana SIN-homologue during the cell cycle, we performed expression analyses of the AtMAP3Kϵ1, AtMAP3Kϵ2, AtMAP4Kα1, AtMAP4Kα2, AtSGP1 and AtSGP2 genes in aphidicoline-synchronised cell suspension cultures of Arabidopsis using real-time RT-PCR (Fig. 5B). As reference genes we monitored the expression of the cell cycle phase-specific markers histone AtH4 (CITATION) and cyclin CycB1;1At (CITATION), marking the S phase and the G2-M transition, respectively. Examination of the transcript levels of these eight genes during the cell cycle revealed two types of expression patterns. The first expression profile is similar to the profile of CycB1;1At, and comprises transcripts profiles of AtSGP1, AtMAP3Kϵ1, AtMAP3Kϵ2 and AtMAP4Kα2 genes, which are all co-expressed at a higher level at the G2-M transition. The second type consists of the transcript expression patterns of AtMAP4Kα1 and AtSGP2. AtSGP2 transcripts were markedly induced during S phase and the steady state level remained stable during G2. In contrast to the other genes, AtMAP4Kα1 displayed a quasi-constitutive expression profile during the course of the cell cycle. Hence, expression of several of the plant SIN-related genes is tightly regulated during the cell cycle with respect to their transcription and/or transcript stability, with the highest mRNA accumulation at the G2-M phases. In S. pombe a major part of the regulation of the SIN pathway proteins resides in a strict control of their subcellular localisation during the cell cycle (CITATION). To investigate whether a similar regulation occurs in plant cells, the localisation of the plant SIN-related proteins was determined using transiently expressed GFP fusions. Because of their amenability to microscopic analysis, protoplasts of tobacco BY2 cells were used for these studies. Twenty-four hours after protoplast transformation, all GFP fusions with the different plant SIN-related homologues were localised to the nucleus of interphase cells (Fig. 6). The data shown in Fig. 6 illustrate that each of the GFP-tagged proteins appeared concentrated in the non-DAPI staining region of the nucleus, i.e. the nucleolus. These interphase cells were characterised by a large nucleolus. A faint, diffuse signal was also detectable in the nucleoplasm, all around the nucleus and in the cytoplasm (Fig. 6B2,B4-B6). In control cells transformed with GFP alone, fluorescence was localised both to the nucleus and to the cytoplasm, including cytoplasmic strands (Fig. 6B1). GFP alone is smaller than the accepted exclusion size limit of nuclear pores, in agreement with its distribution both in the cytoplasm and the nucleus (CITATION). However, the size of the plant SIN-like component GFP fusion proteins, are above the exclusion size limit of nuclear pores indicating that the plant GFP-tagged proteins are translocated to the nucleus by an active process. We were unable to identify potential nuclear localisation signals similar to the ones identified by Kalderon et al. and Robbins et al. from database searches (CITATION; CITATION). In conclusion, these results show that, in plant cells, all of the plant SIN-related components AtSGP1, AtSGP2, BnMAP3Kϵ1, AtMAP4Kα1 and AtMAP4Kα2 localise to the nucleolus.   [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! AtSGP1, AtSGP2, AtMAP4Kα1 and AtMAP4Kα2 coding regions were amplified from an A. thaliana root cDNA library by PCR using gene-specific primers flanking the corresponding sequences according to genomic DNA annotations: AtSGP1 5′-TCTCTGTTTCATCAATGGCCG-3′, 5′-AATTAGGAATCGTAGTCG-3′; AtSGP2 5′-TTCTCAATGGCTCAATCGTG-3′, 5′-CATATTCTAGAAGTCGATGA-3′; AtMAP4Kα1 5′-GTTGTGGAAATGGATG-3′, 5′-TCTGTGAGTTTCTCAAC-3′; AtMAP4Kα2 5′-TAGTGGTTGGAGCGGGAGAGAAGGTGG-3′, 5′-ATTCCATCTCTGTAGGTTGTCTCAGGG-3′. These PCR fragments were cloned into the pBluescript SK vector by blunt-end ligation, and their identities were confirmed by DNA sequencing. Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia seeds were sown in soil in a growth chamber (17°C, 65% humidity, light 250 νE/m2/second) with a 16 hour photoperiod. Plantlets were harvested 17 days after sowing, at the four leaf stage. Roots, rosette leaves, cauline leaves, inflorescence stems, flower buds, mature flowers and 0.5 cm long green siliques were harvested from a pool of 50 plants, 60 days after sowing. While harvesting the primary inflorescence stems, stem nodes were discarded. The A. thaliana cell suspension culture was synchronised using aphidicoline, according to the method of Doutriaux et al. (CITATION). The T0 reference point corresponds to a sample collected immediately after aphidicoline release. After removal of the drug, an aliquot of the cell suspension culture was collected every 2 hours and frozen in liquid nitrogen. RNA extractions, cDNA preparations and real-time quantitative RTPCR analysis were performed according to the method of Charrier et al. (CITATION). PCR amplification was performed using specific oligonucleotides (Table 1). The oligonucleotides used for the amplification of AtMAP3Kϵ1, AtMAP3Kϵ2, AtMAP4Kα1, AtMAP4Kα2 and ACTIN 2/8 have been described previously (CITATION).   [[TABLE]] DNA fragments corresponding to the full length AtSGP1, AtSGP2 and BnMAP4Kα2 coding regions were generated by digestion and cloned into the S. pombe expression vector pREP3ΔATG. Standard techniques for transformation and genetic manipulation of S. pombe were used as described previously (CITATION). S. pombe spg1-B8- and sid1-239-defective strains were used for complementation tests. Transformed colonies were replicated on EMM2-agar plates containing thiamine (non-inducing medium) or without thiamine (inducing medium). Nuclei and septa were labelled using DAPI and calcofluor, respectively, according to Fankhauser and Simanis (CITATION). The coding sequences of plant cDNAs were fused in frame to the GAL4 activation domain (AD) or the GAL4 binding domain (BD) by cloning into the pGAD424 or pGBT9 vectors, respectively. The coding regions were amplified by PCR using specific oligonucleotides: AtSGP1 5′-CTCGAATTCTCTGTTTCATCAATGGCC-3′, 5′-CTAGAATTCAATTAGGAATCGTAGTC-3′; AtSGP2, 5′-GTACGAATTCATGGCTCAATC-3′, 5′-ATAGGATCCCTAGAAGTCGATG-3′; modified with restriction sites (underlined sequences). DNA fragments corresponding to the full length BnMAP3Kϵ1, BnMAP3Kα1 and BnMAP3Kβ1 coding regions were generated by digestion and cloned into pGAD424 or pGBT9. BD-cdc7, BD-spg1, BD-byr4 and AD-cdc14, AD-cdc7, AD-spg1, AD-byr4 constructs were a gift from V. Simanis. The BD and AD constructs were used to transform the yeast strain Y190 (CITATION), and protein interactions were assayed using lacZ-filter lifts and by monitoring growth on SD-LTH medium containing 20 mM 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole (3-AT). The coding sequences of plant genes were fused in frame with the smGFP encoding gene in the CD3-326 vector (CITATION). The coding regions were amplified by PCR using specific oligonucleotides: BnMAP3Kϵ1 5′-AGGAATTCGAGCTCGGGATCCATGACG-3′, 5′-TTGGATCCACAAGACGGTGTTGATGTG-3′; AtSGP1 5′-GAATTCTCTGGATCCTCAATGGC-3′, 5′-GAATGGATCCAGGAATCGTAGTC-3′; AtSGP2 5′-GTACGGATCCATGGCTCAATC-3′, 5′-CAGGATCCAGAAGTCGATG-3′; AtMAP4Kα1 5′-GTTGGATCCATGGATGATGTTGCTGG-3′, 5′-TCTGTGAGGGATCCAACTTTGGTTAAGATCACGC-3′; AtMAP4Kα2 5′-TAGTGGATCCAGCGGGAGAGAAGGTGG-3′, 5′-GGGGATCCAAAGATCACGTGATGATTG-3′; modified with restriction sites (underlined sequences). The cell suspension of the tobacco Bright-Yellow 2 (BY2) mutant was maintained according to standard protocols (CITATION) and transformed with the plasmids mentioned above. 50 ml of cell suspension were harvested before it reached the stationary growth phase and subjected to cell wall digestion using the following mixture: 12% sorbitol, 0.1% pectolyase, 1% cellulase pH 5.5 at 30°C under gentle constant swirling. After completion (60-90 minutes), the protoplasts were washed twice with protoplast medium (0.10 M glucose, 0.25 M mannitol pH 5.8 in Murashige and Skoog medium). Transformations were carried out with 10 μg of plasmid per 106 protoplasts in the protoplast medium supplemented with 12.5% polyethylene glycol 4000. After dilution to a 5 ml volume with protoplast medium, protoplasts were cultured for 24-36 hours in the dark at 25°C prior to examination. Cells were observed under the epifluorescence microscope after staining the nuclei with 4′-6 diamidino-2-phenyl indole (DAPI, 10 μg/ml) and the cell walls with Calcofluor (Tinopal LPW™, 100 μg/ml). GFP fluorescence was imaged with an epifluorescence confocal Sanastro 2000 microscope (Moleculars Dynamics). Excitation of in vivo GFP fluorescence was achieved by the Ar laser line at 488 nm, while the fluorescence emission was collected by a broad band pass filter (500-550 nm). The resulting signal was amplified, digitalized and the consistent picture reconstituted by Leica software. As classically used for animal cells, nucleolar localisation was ascertained by analysing the plant cells by phase contrast microscopy, DAPI staining and GFP observation (CITATION).
