!~ABS~! Functional genomic technologies are generating vast amounts of data describing the presence of transcripts or proteins in plant cells. Together with classical genetics, these approaches broaden our understanding of the gene products required for specific responses. Looking to the future, the focus of research must shift to the dynamic aspects of biology: molecular mechanisms of function and regulation. Phosphorylation is a key regulatory factor in all aspects of plant biology; but it is difficult, if not impossible, for most researchers to identify in vivo phosphorylation sites within their proteins of interest. We have developed a large-scale strategy for the isolation of phosphopeptides and identification by mass spectrometry (Nühse et al., 2003b). Here, we describe the identification of more than 300 phosphorylation sites from Arabidopsis thaliana plasma membrane proteins. These data will be a valuable resource for many fields of plant biology and overcome a major impediment to the elucidation of signal transduction pathways. We present an analysis of the characteristics of phosphorylation sites, their conservation among orthologs and paralogs, and the existence of putative motifs surrounding the sites. These analyses yield general principles for predicting other phosphorylation sites in plants and provide indications of specificity determinants for responsible kinases. In addition, more than 50 sites were mapped on receptor-like kinases and revealed an unexpected complexity of regulation. Finally, the data also provide empirical evidence on the topology of transmembrane proteins. This information indicates that prediction programs incorrectly identified the cytosolic portion of the protein in 25% of the transmembrane proteins found in this study. All data are deposited in a new searchable database for plant phosphorylation sites maintained by PlantsP (http://plantsp.sdsc.edu) that will be updated as the project expands to encompass additional tissues and organelles.
!~RES~! Two benchmark parameters were used to test whether the methodology delivers comprehensive proteome coverage: the representation of proteins with multiple transmembrane-spanning domains and the sequence coverage of cytoplasmic domains that can be phosphorylated. Analyzing the data from this large-scale phosphoproteomic study, we found that approximately two-thirds of the identified phosphoproteins had at least one transmembrane (TM) domain (Figure 1A). One of them, a calpain-like protein, contained a predicted 23 TM domains. It has been suggested that precleavage of membrane proteins with cyanogen bromide is necessary for complete tryptic digestion (CITATION). In an analysis of a total plasma membrane (PM) digest, however, we found very good coverage of even short cytoplasmic loops for the proton ATPase AHA2 (Figure 1B). We postulate that membrane shaving of tryptic peptides is facilitated by the fact that TM domains are often anchored in the membrane by polybasic residues (i.e., trypsin cleavage sites) on the cytosolic face. Thus, the accessibility of PM proteins to trypsin does not appear to be a limiting factor. Moreover, all fragments were from regions predicted to reside on the cytoplasmic face of the PM (Figure 1B), indicating that this type of analysis provides information on the topography of proteins within the membrane (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] The functional categories of the 200 identified phosphoproteins (CITATION; this study) show a high representation of proteins with a role in signal transduction. Receptor-like kinases represent a quarter of all phosphoproteins and all signaling-related proteins, as far as could be annotated by similarity, more than a third. Proteins with a role in transport (channels and ABC transporters) and ion homeostasis (H+ and Ca2+ ATPases) constitute another large family. Although the plasma membranes were of high purity (CITATION), a small number of proteins were identified as clear contaminants, among them several nuclear proteins, such as DNA polymerases and putative transcription factors. Unsurprisingly, all but a few phosphorylation sites described here are novel. Among the few well-characterized plant plasma membrane phosphoproteins are the H+-ATPases and the aquaporins. We reported the identification of previously known and novel phosphorylation sites on several isoforms of the H+-ATPase (AHA1, AHA2, AHA3, and AHA4) in an earlier publication (CITATION). Vacuolar and plasma membrane aquaporins are known to be regulated by posttranslational modification to adapt to rapid changes in the apoplastic water potential (CITATION; CITATION). The phosphorylation sites we identified on two PIP2 isoforms (see Supplemental Table 1 online) have also been detected in another proteomic study (CITATION). They are equivalent to Ser262 of soybean (Glycine max) nodulin26 and Ser274 of spinach (Spinacia oleracea) PM28A (CITATION; CITATION), both of which are phosphorylated in response to increasing water potential, probably by a calcium-dependent kinase. In several cases, phosphorylation of a particular protein was known or predicted, but no data on the precise site of modification were published. The Na+/H+-antiporter SOS1 is phosphorylated by the SOS2 kinase in complex with the calcium sensor protein SOS3 on (an) unknown site(s) (CITATION). The site we identified is consistent with both the anticipated SNF1/AMPK1 motif and the localization on the hydrophilic C terminus (CITATION), and thus may be (one of) the authentic site(s) targeted by SOS2/SOS3. For the remainder of the phosphorylation sites, however, this report represents the first insights into potential posttranslational regulation of these proteins. In addition to the importance in studying individual proteins, the data provide the basis of drawing some general predictions and conclusions about protein phosphorylation in plants. Proteins are generally composed of catalytic/functional domains surrounded or interspersed by less defined (or not yet understood) variable regions. We analyzed our data to investigate if there is a trend in the location of phosphorylation sites in relation to the architecture of the protein using protein domain predictions from the SMART Web site (http://smart.embl-heidelberg.de/). Figure 2 shows the position of phosphorylation sites relative to functional domains for three multidomain protein families represented in our study. In the majority of cases, the sites were outside catalytic and known regulatory domains, and sequences surrounding the sites were poorly conserved within a gene family. Nevertheless, such isoform-specific regulatory sites can still be clustered in equivalent regions of the protein. In the case of the multiple drug resistance (MDR) family of ABC transporters, the poorly conserved linker region between the duplicated ATPase domains is a well-known target for phosphorylation in yeast and human transporters (CITATION; CITATION). Three sites in plant ABC transporters share an [R,K]-X-pS motif (see Supplemental Table 1 online), suggesting that these sites are phosphorylated by the same or a related kinase. In the case of the cellulose synthase family, all but one of the sites are in the unconserved region upstream of the first TM domain, whereas one phosphorylation motif in the catalytic domain of CesA1 is loosely conserved among several other CesA proteins. Among the calcium-dependent protein kinases, we found two sites within the C-terminal calmodulin-like domains (where in one case the phosphoserine replaces a conserved Asp, see below), two in the kinase domain, and only two in the highly diverse N termini. Taking into account the data from receptor-like kinases (see below) and other families (data not shown), the majority of phosphorylation sites are located outside of defined catalytic/functional domains. [[FIGURE]] An additional outcome of this analysis was that phosphorylation sites in most of the multispanning TM proteins were close to either the N or C terminus. Assuming that phosphorylation is exclusively intracellular, the identification of a phosphopeptide establishes the corresponding terminus as cytoplasmic. This knowledge is useful for the determination of the inside/outside topology of unknown membrane proteins. We found a Web-based prediction tool (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TMHMM/) in conflict with our empirical data for more than one-quarter of proteins with more than one TM domain (data not shown). Thus, these data have significance on a structural as well as functional level. Related to the question addressed above, we also investigate if the amino acid sequence surrounding a phosphorylation site is conserved between members of functional families of proteins. It could be envisaged that sites involved in the direct regulation of enzyme activity might be more likely to occur within conserved regions of a protein family. On the other hand, phosphorylation of unique sites would allow isoform-specific regulation. In the latter case, these sites may still be conserved among true orthologs in related plant species. Figure 3 shows an alignment of the N-terminal phosphorylation sites of the cellulose synthase CesA3 with the corresponding sequences of paralogous CesA proteins (top panel) and putative orthologs (bottom panel), the latter found by BLAST search of EST databases. It is striking that whereas the CesA3 sites are unique among the paralogous CesA proteins, highly similar sequences were found in putative orthologs from the EST database, indicating that isoform-specific regulation of this cellulose synthase protein is conserved even in monocots. [[FIGURE]] To get a more representative overview of sequence conservation around phosphorylation sites, we did a similar comparison for all putative transporter proteins. Putative paralogs were taken from the Aramemnon database (http://aramemnon.botanik.uni-koeln.de/). Putative orthologs were found by BLAST search of ∼40 to 60 amino acids surrounding the phosphorylation site against an EST database, including a few amino acids of sequence that are conserved in the protein family when possible to reduce random low-scoring hits. As shown in Table 1, the majority of phosphorylation sites are conserved among putative orthologs and, to a lesser extent, among some members of the same protein family. Because of potential errors in EST sequence data, a negative result cannot be taken as evidence for absence of related phosphorylation sites. Conversely, however, the conservation of a putative phosphorylation motif may be taken as additional supporting evidence for the exact phosphorylation site if the mass spectrometric data are ambiguous. The SOS1 phosphorylation site could not be unambiguously assigned to S1 or S3 in the peptide SVSFGGIYNNK, but S3 is more highly conserved in other species. Thus, it is the more likely candidate (Figure 4A). In addition, careful analysis of aligned sequences may also help to define specificity determinants of the kinase that targets the sequence. In SOS1, the Phe residue in the +1 position is also conserved and may be important in addition to the known basic-X-X-Ser motif for the SNF1/AMP-related kinase SOS2 (CITATION; CITATION). Conservation of Phosphorylation Sites in Membrane Transporters [[FIGURE]] In the glucose transporter STP1 (Figure 4B) and, most strikingly, the calcium-dependent protein kinase CPK32 (Figure 4C), we found the interesting case of a conserved acidic residue being replaced by a phosphoamino acid in one or two sequences. In CPK32, the phosphoserine takes the place of an absolutely conserved Asp that coordinates the calcium ion in the EF hand. It is tempting to speculate that phosphorylation of this Ser residue represents the switching on of a charge-dependent function in one isoform where the others are constitutively on. Receptor-like Ser/Thr kinases (RLKs) form an extremely diverse protein family in Arabidopsis. Because the genome sequence has revealed their number to be in the hundreds, the question has arisen of how signaling specificity is ensured. Even if only a fraction of all RLK genes is expressed at any given time in one cell, it is puzzling how unique output signals are generated from receptors with highly similar kinase domains. Our experimental data on RLK phosphorylation sites are perhaps the most striking of this study. With ∼50 identified phosphoproteins, this protein family is by far the best represented and accounts for a quarter of all proteins (Figure 1C). Figure 5A shows a graphic representation of the position of the phosphorylation sites relative to the conserved kinase subdomains (for a full-size alignment, see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Unexpectedly, three-quarters of the phosphopeptides came from either the juxtamembrane region ([JM]; the linker between the TM domain and the kinase core) or the domain C-terminal of the kinase core. The JM and C-terminal sequences are highly divergent in length and sequence, and the identified phosphorylation sites are generally unique for a single RLK (data not shown). The implications for signaling mechanisms are discussed below. [[FIGURE]] Only eight phosphopeptides were found in the activation segment or A loop (i.e., the sequence between the conserved DFG and APE motifs of the subdomains VII and VIII, respectively), the best-characterized domain for kinase activation. Several of them cover the same conserved residues, and one of them (GpSFGYLD…) corresponds to one of the very few previously known RLK phosphorylation sites, Thr468 in SERKa (CITATION). Most, but not all, RLKs with phosphorylated A loops belong to the group of RD kinases that require this modification for charge neutralization in the active site (CITATION). Outside of the activation segment, some more unusual phosphorylation sites were found. Several peptides cover an [RK]-A-S-A-E motif just upstream of domain I, which is highly conserved among the LRRK III and VII families and probably represents a common regulatory site. Modification of residues in the unconserved linker regions between the conserved subdomains I/II, II/III, and IX/X, respectively, or within domains X/XI (Figure 5) have to our knowledge not been reported for any protein kinase. This certainly reflects a bias in hypothesis-driven research toward previously known sites (particularly in the A loop), but these unusual sites may indeed prove to be unique for plant RLKs or even the particular protein itself. Although kinases may have additional protein–protein docking or interaction domains, the enzymatic active site shows specificity toward its substrates based on the linear sequence surrounding the residue to be phosphorylated. We sorted all unambiguously assigned phosphorylation sites according to single residues in the −6 to +6 positions to detect the frequency of residues within specific positions and to look for common motifs (Figure 6A). Although most residues were evenly distributed across all positions, Pro was seldom in the −1 position and overrepresented in the +1. Aromatic residues were also found with disproportionate frequency in the +1 position but were virtually excluded from position +2. Taking these analyses further, we found restraint on the residues in the −1 position when an aromatic residue was in the +1 position. Overall, ∼12% of total Gly residues are present in the −1 position. However, when an aromatic residue is present in the +1 position, Gly is the −1 residue 50% of the time (13/26; Figure 6B). Conversely, Pro or aromatic residues are never present at the −1 position with an aromatic residue in the +1 position. These indications of bias probably reflect spatial restraints of the substrate binding site of the relevant kinases. Information from these types of analyses will be useful both for designing peptide libraries to test kinase specificity determinants and for refining programs for predicting phosphorylation sites. [[FIGURE]] Finally, we investigated the possibility of using patterns of residues surrounding the phosphorylation site to predict kinase specificity determinants or to cluster proteins that may be coordinately regulated. We found an unusually large number of motifs with acidic residues in the −1 to +4 positions (see Supplemental Figure 2D online), many even with a [DE]-pS-[DE] motif (see Supplemental Figure 2E online). The second largest group were protein kinase A-like motifs [RK]-x1−3-pS (see Supplemental Figures 2A and 2B online). The high frequency of these motifs reflects the fact that acidic- or basic-directed specificity is common among the well-characterized kinases. The G – pS – aromatic motif discussed above is conserved among most PIP2 (plasma membrane intrinsic protein) and all Syp1 (syntaxin family 1) proteins (Figure 6A). Interestingly, phosphorylation of the homologous site of the aquaporin PM28A has been shown to be calcium dependent (CITATION), and uncharacterized calcium-dependent activities also phosphorylated a H+-ATPase (CITATION) and the syntaxin Syp122 (CITATION). It is conceivable that this unusual phosphorylation motif is subject to regulation by the same or closely related kinases. If these kinases are indeed CDPKs, the substrate motifs are more variable than anticipated (CITATION). Several motifs have been described as preferred substrates for the related Snf1-like and calcium-dependent protein kinases (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Many of the experimentally determined sites correspond to the simple pattern basic-X2-pSer, but only very few match the ideal motif determined in peptide-based assays (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). It is possible that the plasma membrane samples contain only very few substrates of Snf1-like kinases, such as metabolic enzymes, but a more likely explanation is that full-length proteins in vivo reveal a more complex recognition motif than a short stretch of primary structure. Thus, the amino acid positions described here for sorting may not actually be the sole specificity determinant for the respective kinase. It is likely, however, that the inclusion of structural and other parameters as well as empirical data on kinase specificity will allow us to use these data sets for predictions as was successfully done for mammalian proteins (CITATION).
!~MM~! POROS chromatography materials (Self Pack OligoR3, MC 20, and HQ 20) were purchased from Applied Biosystems (Foster City, CA) and modified porcine trypsin from Promega (Southampton, UK). Microcolumns were packed in Gelloader tips (Eppendorf, Cambridge, UK) as described by CITATION. The isolation of plasma membranes from suspension-cultured Arabidopsis thaliana cells has been described by CITATION. For this large-scale study, plasma membranes from control cells and cells that have been treated with 100 nM flg22 peptide for 8 min were pooled. Before harvesting of plasma membranes from the last upper phase of the dextran/polyethylene glycol partitioning, 0.01% Brij58 was added to invert the membranes to inside-out orientation. After centrifugation (60 min, 150,000g), the membranes were resuspended in 100 mM sodium carbonate, left on ice for 10 min, and then collected by centrifugation (30 min, 100,000g). The wash was repeated with 500 mM and then 50 mM ammonium hydrogen carbonate. The membranes were digested at a 1:50 ratio of trypsin:protein overnight at 37°C. Phosphopeptides were isolated as described by CITATION. Briefly, the supernatant containing the released peptides was either used directly for IMAC after addition of acetic acid (final concentration 0.2 M) or formic acid was added (final concentration 5%) to the digest and the supernatant purified over an OligoR3 column (i.e., washed with 5% formic acid and eluted with 100 mM acetic acid and 50% acetonitrile). POROS MC material was prepared according to the manufacturer's instructions and loaded with 100 mM FeCl3 in 100 mM acetic acid. Chromatography was performed as described by CITATION with minor modifications. Peptides were batch-bound to the IMAC material by shaking at room temperature in a typical volume of 20 to 50 μL, containing ∼2 to 5 μL (settled volume) of POROS MC material. After the incubation, the slurry was packed into Gelloader pipette tips with constricted tips and washed once each with 15 μL of 0.1 M acetic acid and 0.1 M acetic acid/30% acetonitrile, respectively, before elution with dilute ammonia, pH 10.5, or 50 mM ammonium phosphate, pH 9. The majority of phosphopeptides were identified from multiple runs of a two-dimensional liquid chromatographic separation scheme as described by CITATION. Briefly, 500 μg of plasma membranes were trypsin digested and the released peptides purified over an OligoR3 microcolumn as described above but washed with water before elution with 50% acetonitrile. The eluate was diluted with buffer and pH adjusted to final concentrations of 30% acetonitrile/20 mM NH4HCO3, pH ∼7. A microcolumn was packed with POROS HQ20 (SAX) and preequilibrated with 30% acetonitrile/25 mM NH4HCO3, pH 7.0 (SAX buffer). The sample was slowly loaded onto the column and the flow-through collected. Twelve fractions were collected by step eluting with 20 μL each of 40 to 500 mM NaCl in SAX buffer. Flow-through and eluate fractions were briefly concentrated in a speed vac to reduce the acetonitrile concentration, brought to 5% formic acid, and desalted on R3 microcolumns. IMAC purification of phosphopeptides was done as described above. Automated nanoflow LC-MS/MS analysis was performed using a QTOF Ultima mass spectrometer (Waters/Micromass, Manchester, UK) employing automated data-dependent acquisition. A nanoflow-HPLC system (Ultimate; Switchos2; Famos; LC Packings, Amstersdam, The Netherlands) was used to deliver a flow rate of 175 nL min−1 to the mass spectrometer. Chromatographic separation was accomplished using a 2-cm fused silica precolumn (75-μm i.d. and 360-μm o.d.; Zorbax SB-C18 5 μm; Agilent, Wilmington, DE) connected to an 8-cm analytical column (50-μm i.d. and 360-μm o.d.; Agilent Zorbax SB-C18 3.5 μm). Peptides were eluted by a gradient of 5 to 32% acetonitrile for 35 min. The mass spectrometer was operated in positive ion mode with a source temperature of 80°C and a countercurrent gas flow rate of 150 L h−1. Data-dependent analysis was employed (three most abundant ions in each cycle): 1 s MS mass-to-charge ratio (m/z) 350 to 1500 and max 4 s MS/MS m/z 50 to 2000 (continuum mode), 30 s dynamic exclusion. Raw data were processed using MassLynx 3.5 ProteinLynx (smooth 3/2 Savitzky Golay and center 4 channels/80% centroid) and the resulting MS/MS data set exported in the Micromass pkl format. We performed the peptide identification and assignment of partial posttranslational modifications using an in-house version of Mascot version 1.9. All data sets were searched twice, first with relatively large peptide mass tolerances, followed by internal mass recalibration by an in-house software algorithm using theoretical masses from unambiguously identified peptides obtained from the first search. The recalibrated data sets were searched against NCBInr (all species) using the following constraints: only tryptic peptides with up to three missed cleavage sites were allowed; 0.1 D mass tolerances for MS and MS/MS fragment ions. Phosphorylation (STY), deamidation (NQ), and oxidation (M) were specified as variable modifications. The results were filtered for non-Arabidopsis peptide assignments. External mass calibration using NaI resulted generally in mass errors of <50 ppm, typically 5 to 15 ppm in the m/z range 50 to 2000. Approximately 50 of the MS/MS spectra were inspected for neutral loss, sequence-specific fragmentation patterns, and database match. Most of the spectra showed prominent loss of phosphate. The Mascot search results calculated all hits with a score above 40 to be significant; that is, a nonrandom match at P < 0.05 (the Mascot score is a probabilistic implementation [http://www.matrixscience.com/help/scoring_help.html] of the MOWSE score; CITATION). However, for all manually inspected spectra with a score above 30 and many spectra with a score above 20, the top search hit was in agreement with the spectrum on the basis of characteristic fragmentation. Correct hits may have a low score because of poorer quality spectra. Phosphorylation sites are only marked as unambiguous (bold red type in Supplemental Table 1 online) if sequences with alternative phosphate positions scored at least 10 units lower or were not reported as significant hits. Tryptic peptides that are not unique to one protein are marked in the table. All protein hits were verified in The Arabidopsis Information Resource database (http://www.arabidopsis.org/); no exclusions were made on the basis of predicted function, localization, etc. The following Web-based bioinformatic tools were used: TMHMM (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TMHMM/) for the prediction of transmembrane helices; SMART (http://smart.embl-heidelberg.de/) for functional domains; ClustalW (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/clustalw/) for protein sequence alignments; Boxshade (http://www.ch.embnet.org/software/BOX_form.html) for rendering ClustalW results (setting 50% of sequences must agree for shading). Putative orthologs of phosphoproteins were found by BLAST search of (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/BLAST/; translated search tblastn) 40 to 60 amino acid sequences surrounding the empirical phosphorylation sites against an EST database (setting est_others; expect 10,000). Where possible, a few amino acids were included in the search that are conserved among several homologs of the phosphoprotein to distinguish unrelated sequences more easily. Sequence data from this article have been deposited with the EMBL/GenBank data libraries under the following accession numbers: AHA2 (At4g30190), MDR1 (At2g36910), MDR4 (At2g47000), MDR8 (At1g02520), MDR17 (At3g62150), AtCesA1 (At4g32410), AtCesA2 (At4g39350), AtCesA3 (At5g05170), AtCesA4 (At5g44030), AtCesA5 (At5g09870), AtCesA6 (At5g64740), AtCesA7 (At5g17420), AtCesA8 (At4g18780), AtCesA9 (At2g21770), and AtCesA10 (At2g25540). For CDPKs, see PlantsP database (http://plantsp.sdsc.edu); for the STP family, see PlantsT (http://plantst.sdsc.edu). CesA3 putative orthologs are as follows: B. napus (CD837398); I. nil (BJ553825); M. truncatula (BQ139762 and BF634138); G. hirsutum (AF150630); P. balsamifera (BU879114); T. aestivum (BQ578769 and BT009438); Z. mays (ZmCesA1, AF200525; ZmCesA2, AF200526; ZmCesA4, AF200528; ZmCesA5, AF200529; ZmCesA9, AF200533); L. japonicus (AV408250); O. sativa (AK072356.1, AK098978, and D48636); G. max (BE660209); L. sativa (BQ869850); Rosa sp (BQ104792); V. vinifera (CD005820); S. propinquum (BG465505); S. bicolor (BG273410); H. vulgare (BQ471177); T. monococcum (BQ802778). SOS1 (At2g01980); putative orthologs: P. trem (CA924192); G. max (BE609663); B. vulgaris (BQ591881); S. tuberosum (BQ510147); M. chrysanthemum (BE577626); O. sativa (CB676883).
