!~ABS~! Although plants continually produce different organs throughout their life cycle, little is known about the factors that regulate the timing of a given developmental program. Here we report that the restricted expression of FUS3 to the epidermis is sufficient to control foliar organ identity in Arabidopsis by regulating the synthesis of two hormones, abscisic acid and gibberellin. These hormones in turn regulate the rates of cell cycling during organ formation to determine whether an embryonic or adult leaf will emerge. We also show that FUS3 expression is influenced by the patterning hormone, auxin, and therefore acts as a nexus of hormone action during embryogenesis. The identification of lipophillic hormones downstream of a heterochronic regulator in Arabidopsis has parallels to mechanisms of developmental timing in animals and suggests a common logic for temporal control of developmental programs between these two kingdoms.
!~RES~! We investigated the localization patterns of FUS3 protein during embryogenesis using a reporter FUS3-GFP translational fusion under the control of the endogenous FUS3 promoter ( FUS3::FUS3-GFP ). This translational fusion was fully functional in that it rescued all loss-of-function fus3 embryonic phenotypes (data not shown). Up to the triangular stage of embryo development, fluorescence was detected in most cells but was more strongly visible in the apical part of the embryo and the suspensor ( CITATION ) . By the late heart and torpedo stages, the GFP signal became predominantly confined to the epidermis CITATION . At these later stages, GFP fluorescence was most pronounced at the cotyledon and root tips with some signal being detected in the vascular tissue within the embryonic root CITATION . By the walking stick stage, the GFP signal clearly marked the root tip and the epidermal tissues of the cotyledon CITATION . Closer inspection of the root tip of walking stick embryos revealed weak fluorescence in inner cell layers adjacent to the epidermis, while the cotyledons still showed epidermal-specific fluorescence CITATION . After this stage, the GFP signal began to dissipate and was completely absent by the time the embryo reached maturity CITATION . These GFP fluorescence patterns support the previously published FUS3 transcription patterns CITATION . The embryonic patterns of FUS3 accumulation are similar to those reported for the auxin-responsive reporter, DR5 CITATION , which suggests that the embryonic patterns of FUS3 transcript accumulation may reflect differential auxin concentrations. This was tested by dissecting embryos from a FUS3::FUS3-GFP transgenic plant and placing the embryos on 100 μM IAA, a naturally occurring auxin. By 24 hr, IAA imbibed embryos showed an increase in the nuclear localization of GFP signal in the root cap cells versus untreated controls CITATION . Because the GFP signal can be induced by exogenous auxin in dissected embryos, we tested the possibility of inducing FUS3 expression outside of the embryo in an auxin-dependent manner by monitoring the expression of the FUS3 gene using a FUS3::GUS transcriptional reporter. In the absence of exogenous auxin, the FUS3::GUS transgenic line normally shows GUS activity in its roots for a duration of approximately 3 days after germination CITATION . After this time, the blue staining dissipated and was only marginally present by 6 days CITATION . After 6-day-old seedlings grown on minimal media were transferred to media containing 10 μM IAA for a 24 hr period, strong GUS activity was observed in the root tip versus roots grown on minimal media ( CITATION ) . A similar incubation on media containing ABA or GA showed little or no increase in blue staining, indicating that the increased GUS activity is auxin specific CITATION . Hence, the patterns of FUS3-GFP protein accumulation in the embryo may reflect the sites of the auxin maxima, such as the root and cotyledon tips. Because the AtML1 promoter restricts expression to the L1 layer of the shoot apical meristem throughout vegetative and floral development, it allows the misexpression of FUS3 to be maintained postembryonically CITATION . Homozygous AtML1::FUS3 -GFP seedlings developed into dark green, dwarfed plants that were often semisterile CITATION . After germination, homozygous lines produce foliar leaves that are more similar to cotyledons CITATION . As lateral organs emerge from the meristem, they are yellow, but as they develop take on a rounder shape and a glossy, glabrous surface reminiscent of a cotyledon CITATION . In strong lines, the production of cotyledons occurred throughout development even after the plant has switched to a reproductive meristem. For example, cotyledonary-like organs appeared from the floral meristem in the same phyllotactic arrangement as that observed for flower organs CITATION . As the plants age, however, the organs that initially emerged as cotyledonary-like leaves slowly take on features that are more characteristic of vegetative leaves, such as an oblong leaf shape and elongated petioles resulting in a Christmas tree-like appearance CITATION . As young vegetative leaves emerge from the meristem of misexpressed FUS3 lines, they accumulate seed storage proteins throughout the leaf, which is consistent with their embryonic identity CITATION . This accumulation is surprising since AtML1::FUS3-GFP transgenic plants only show GFP fluorescence in the epidermal layer (data not shown). This result suggests that a downstream component of FUS3 that regulates seed storage accumulation most likely functions in a cell-nonautonomous manner. ABA has been implicated as a positive regulator of many FUS3 -regulated embryonic functions including storage reserve accumulation, desiccation tolerance, and dormancy establishment CITATION . To test the relationship between FUS3 and ABA, an ABA auxotrophic mutation ( aba2-2 ) was genetically introduced into a fus3 loss-of-function line that has been complemented with AtML1::FUS3-GFP transgene. Because severe ATML1::FUS3-GFP lines do not produce functional flowers for crossing, a phenotypically weak AtML1::FUS3-GFP transgenic line was used in this experiment. Cotyledon-like leaves produced in weaker lines are mostly lacking in trichome hairs but occasionally produce trichomes at the tip or margins of the leaves ( CITATION ) . Flower development is affected to some extent in weak lines, in that the sepals open much earlier than wild-type and growth of the petals and the filament of the stamens is delayed compared to the growth of the carpel CITATION . These flower defects often result in reduced fertilization, which consequently produces a large proportion of short siliques CITATION . When the aba2-2 mutation was introduced into the FUS3 misexpressing line, trichome production was restored on rosette and cauline leaves CITATION , floral defects were rescued CITATION , and plants produced normal elongated siliques CITATION . These results indicate that ABA is necessary for FUS3 function and that this hormone works at or downstream of FUS3 . To more clearly determine the relationship between ABA and FUS3 , we measured the concentrations of ABA throughout embryogenesis in a fus3 loss-of-function line CITATION . In wild-type seeds, ABA concentrations were relatively low until 6 days after flowering (DAF), at which time levels began to increase and reached a peak 10 DAF. After this time, they started to decrease again. By contrast, ABA levels in the fus3 seed showed a similar accumulation pattern to wild-type up to 8 DAF but from then on failed to accumulate ABA to the levels observed in wild-type seeds CITATION . Although these results suggest that FUS3 is a positive regulator of the ABA biosynthesis, to directly address this, we constructed a FUS3 inducible system in which the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) from mammalian systems was translationally fused to FUS3 CITATION . A FUS3::GR fusion driven by the AtML1 promoter was transformed into fus3 plants. In the absence of the synthetic hormone, dexamethasone (DEX), transgenic seedlings were indistinguishable from the fus3 parent, but when germinated and grown in the presence of DEX, transgenic plants produced cotyledonary-like vegetative leaves that are characteristic of FUS3 misexpression (data not shown). Transfer of 5- and 9-day-old transgenic seedlings from minimal media to low concentrations of DEX for 24 hr immediately increased ABA concentrations in two independent seedling samples CITATION . Coupled with the observation that loss-of-function fus3 mutations reduce ABA levels, these results indicate that FUS3 is a positive regulator of ABA synthesis. The germination of seed from three independent AtML1::FUS3 transgenic lines all showed increased sensitivity to exogenous ABA versus wild-type, which is consistent with the increased synthesis of ABA in misexpressing lines CITATION . Many of the adult FUS3 misexpression phenotypes are reminiscent of a plant defective in GA synthesis or action ( CITATION ; CITATION ). Furthermore, GA is important in trichome formation in vegetative Arabidopsis leaves and fus3 loss-of-function mutants have ectopic trichomes on their cotyledons CITATION . To explore the role of GA on FUS3 -dependent functions, a mutation that decreases GA synthesis ( ga1-2 ) was introduced into a fus3 loss-of-function mutant. Double mutants still produced red seeds that were desiccation intolerant, indicating that these fus3 phenotypes are GA-independent (data not shown). However, ectopic trichome production on cotyledons was reduced and many times absent in double mutants indicating that this phenotype does require GA ( CITATION ) . Consistent with this, when AtML1::FUS3-GFP plants were sprayed twice a week with GA, the development was more similar to wild-type plants CITATION . Plants showed a normal stature, bolted on time and both the flower and silique defects were rescued by GA application CITATION . GA-dependent rescue of AtML1::FUS3-GFP lines was studied in more detail by following the time of rescue after GA application CITATION . In contrast to an untreated misexpression line CITATION , addition of GA caused a gradual rescue of the leaf phenotypes such as shape, size, venation pattern, and absence of trichomes CITATION . The first vegetative leaf of a seedling grown and germinated on 10 μM GA often resembled an embryonic cotyledon, but occasionally developed as a chimeric leaf showing both embryonic and vegetative venation patterns and shapes CITATION . Indeed, one half of the leaf did not bear trichomes, had a simple venation pattern, and was small in size, thereby resembling embryonic cotyledons ( CITATION , see arrow), whereas the other half of the leaf was larger, possessed several trichomes, and showed a more complex venation system. Leaf three and successive leaves displayed full rescue of leaf morphology CITATION . The relationship between FUS3 and GA is most easily explained by FUS3 exerting a negative regulation on GA synthesis or action. To test this, the levels of transcripts of two key steps in GA biosynthesis, AtGA20ox1 and AtGA3ox1 , were assayed using DEX-inducible AtML1::FUS3-GR misexpression lines. Within 1 hr after DEX application, transcript levels of the AtGA3ox1 showed a slight decrease, and by 24 hr, the signal was highly reduced as measured by RT-PCR CITATION . The AtGA20ox1 transcript levels also showed a reduction after DEX application, but the kinetics of reduction were much slower as a clear cut decrease in transcript levels only resulted after 4 days on DEX CITATION . These results clearly indicate that FUS3 is a negative regulator of GA biosynthesis and explain the prevalence of FUS3-dependent GA-related phenotypes. The ability of GA and ABA levels to modulate FUS3 misexpression phenotypes is unexpected since these two hormones are not usually associated with specifying organ and cellular morphogenesis. However, both hormones have been suggested to have roles in speeding up or slowing down various aspects of the plant life cycle. Consistent with this, as the AtML1::FUS3-GFP lines continued to develop over a longer period of time, the same leaves that started out resembling cotyledons began to develop features that are more characteristic of a vegetative leaf CITATION . For example, before flowering, leaves have a cotyledonary shape and venation pattern, but after having flowered, they have developed a more vegetative venation pattern and leaf shape ( CITATION ) . The conversion of a cotyledonary leaf into a vegetative leaf over time suggests that the scale of leaf development in a FUS3 misexpression line is slower than normal. One factor that determines the size, shape, and venation patterns of leaves is the rate of cell divisions during leaf primordial expansion CITATION . To determine if the spatial and temporal patterns of cell cycling in AtML1::FUS3-GFP lines are altered, a cyclin β-glucuronidase fusion reporter ( cyc1At::GUS ) was introduced into a FUS3 misexpression line. This construct has been used extensively to characterize patterns of cell divisions in Arabidopsis developing leaves CITATION . As expected in wild-type, a gradient of punctate GUS staining, which marks single cell divisions, was detected in young leaves emerging from the apical meristem CITATION . By contrast, in similarly aged AtML1::FUS3-GFP lines, blue staining was highly reduced in emerging foliar organs, suggesting that FUS3 is a negative regulator of cell cycling in Arabidopsis CITATION .On this note, the ability of GA to rescue AtML1::FUS3-GFP phenotypes suggests that application of GA may function to increase the cycling of cells in FUS3 misexpressing lines. As expected, increased GUS staining was observed when GA was applied to AtML1::FUS3-GFP CITATION . It therefore appears that the GA rescue of AtML1::FUS3-GFP phenotypes is due to the ability of this hormone to increase cell cycling (see Supplemental Figure S1 at http://www.developmentalcell.com/cgi/content/full/7/3/373/DC1 ). In the past few years, a number of studies have indicated the role of plant hormones as regulators of the turnover of key proteins involved in hormone signaling CITATION . To explore a possible role of ABA and GA on FUS3 protein stability, we monitored the GFP fluorescence in AtML1::FUS3-GFP vegetative leaves after exposure to ABA, GA, and an inhibitor of GA biosynthesis, uniconazole-P. In the presence of ABA, GFP fluorescence is stabilized compared to untreated controls, suggesting that the upregulation of ABA biosynthesis by FUS3 may in turn stabilize the FUS3 protein in vivo ( CITATION ) . In contrast, a 4 day exposure to 10 μM GA slowly decreased the GFP signal versus control samples CITATION . Consistent with this observation, GFP fluorescence was strongly localized to the nuclei in the presence of 10 μM uniconazole CITATION . The ability of ABA to stabilize FUS3 protein explains why decreased ABA concentrations using an ABA-deficient mutant suppressed AtML1::FUS3-GFP phenotypes. Similarly, the decreased stability of FUS3 protein in the presence of GA explains why exogenous application of GA suppressed FUS3 misexpression phenotypes.
!~MM~! All seeds used in this study were of the Columbia (Col) ecotype. Arabidopsis seeds were imbibed for 5 days at 4°C and seedlings were grown at 20°C under constant light on 0.5 X MS plates supplied with the appropriate hormones or inhibitor. Soil-grown plants were also grown under constant light. Dexamethasone (Sigma) was dissolved in DMSO and used in a final concentration of 0.5 μM, while GA 3 (Sigma), ABA (Sigma), and uniconazole-P (Wako) were dissolved in ethanol and used in a final concentration of 10 μM. For external GA 3 application, plants grown on soil were sprayed three times a week with 10 μM GA 3 . IAA (Sigma) was dissolved in water and used in a final concentration of 10 μM. For the construction of the GFP fusions, restriction sites were introduced at the stop and start codon of FUS3 and GFP , respectively, by using oligonucleotide primers and a proofreading polymerase, Vent (NEB Biolabs), for PCR amplification. The resulting PCR product was subcloned into pBluescript, and sequenced. FUS3-GFP fragments were cut from pBluescript using KpnI and SacI and then assembled into the pBI101 vector (Stratagene) under the control of the 3 Kb fragment of the AtML1 promoter CITATION to generate AtML1::FUS3-GFP , or under the control of the 1.5 Kb fragment of FUS3 promoter to generate FUS3::FUS3-GFP . AtML1::FUS3-GR was constructed by replacing GFP in AtML1::FUS3-GFP with the glucocorticoid (GR) receptor hormone binding domain CITATION . These constructs were transformed into Arabidopsis by the floral dip procedure CITATION and transgenic T1 plants were selected on 0.5 X MS medium supplemented with 25 μg/ml kanamycin. Primer sequences used to amplify the various PCR fragments were as follows: 5′-AAGGTACCATGATGGTTGATGAAAATG-3′ (FUS3-KpnI-F); 5′-ATTGAGAATTCCGTAGAAGTCATCGAG-3′ (FUS3-EcorI-R); 5′-TTTCCCGGGCAATGGTGAGCAAGGGCGAGGAG-3′ (EGFP-SmaI-F); 5′-TGGAGCTCCTATCCGGACTTGTACAGCTCGTCCAT-3′ (EGFP-SacI-R); 5′-TAACGTAAGCTTTTCTTCCTCACCCATACTTTCC (FUS3prom-HindIII-F); 5′-CATGGGTACCTCTCTCAATTGGTTAACACTGCC-3′ (FUS3prom-KpnI-R); 5′-TCTAGAGGATCCGAAGCTCG (GR-F) and 5′-GAACGAGCTCATTTTTGATGAAACAGAAGC-3′ (GR-SacI-R). RT-PCR analysis of total RNA that had been extracted using Trizol reagent (GIBCO) was performed using One Step RT-PCR Kit (Qiagen). 30 PCR cycles were performed with 250 ng of total RNA to amplify 359 bp of AtGA20ox1 and 217 bp of AtGA3ox1 , using primers described in CITATION . The amplification of the ACT7 transcript was used as an expression standard using primers described in CITATION . Experiments were conducted three times with similar results. To generate the fus3 ga1 double mutant, the ga1-3 mutation from a Lansberg ecotype was introgressed seven times into a Col genetic background and then crossed to the fus3-3 to obtain F1 population. F2 seed was screened for seeds that were unable to germinate in the absence of 10 μM GA, a common ga1-2 phenotype. F3 seed from individual ga1-2 seedlings were grown and screened for the fus3 purple-red seed color phenotype. A CAPS marker of the fus3 polymorphism CITATION was used to confirm the fus3 genotype. fus3-3 plants were transformed with AtML1::FUS3-GFP , and kanamycin-resistant T1 plants were propagated. T3 fus3 plants homozygous for the AtML1::FUS3-GFP transgene were crossed to aba2-2 and allowed to self-fertilize. F2 seedlings that were resistant to kanamycin were then transferred to soil. Since fus3-3 aba2-2 double mutant plants produce black seeds, plants were screened for those segregating 1/4 black seeds in the F3 CITATION . Because AtML1::FUS3-GFP can rescue fus3 seed color, these F3 plants were expected to be homozygous for fus3 and aba2-2 and hemizygous for AtML1::FUS3-GFP . In the F4, fus3 ; aba2-2 ; AtML1::FUS3-GFP triple homozygous plants, expected to produce only a wild-type seed color, were selected. F4 seedlings homozygous for the fus3-3 mutation were confirmed by a CAPS marker and the aba2-2 mutation was detected by diagnostic PCR as follows. ABA2-2F (5′-TGGGCTTACAATTTAAGGCCC-3′) and ABA2-2R (5′-TCTCGTCAAAGTTGTAGTCCTC-3′) primers amplify a 2 Kb fragment of the ABA2 gene using wild-type genomic DNA as template, but fail to amplify a PCR product using aba2-2 genomic DNA. The Cyc1At::GUS and FUS3::GUS transgenic lines have been previously described CITATION . Detection of GUS activity and sectioning was performed as described in CITATION . Leaf tissues were cleared in 70% ethanol and 8:2:1 (chloral hydrate:glycerol:water) and mounted in the same solution on microscope slides. For confocal analysis, embryos at different developmental stages were dissected from the seed coat and mounted on coverslips in 5% glycerol, while leaf primordia were dissected from the SAM and mounted onto coverslips in water supplemented with 0.1% Silwet and 25 μg/ml Propidium Iodide. In vitro embryo culture was essentially performed as described CITATION . In brief, excised ovules were placed for 24 hr in the dark at 21°C in 0.5 X MS media containing 2% sucrose and 400 mg/l glutamine with or without 0.1 mM IAA. Embryos were dissected from the ovules and mounted on coverslips in 5% glycerol. Confocal laser scanning microscopy was conducted on a Nikon inverted fluorescence microscope equipped with a Nikon water immersion objective and a Bio-Rad Radiance 2000 confocal head. Images were processed in Adobe Photoshop (Adobe Inc.). The extraction and quantitative analyses, of ABA by GC-EIMS were carried out as described previously CITATION . [1,2- 13 C 2 ]-(±)-ABA was used as an internal standard CITATION . Siliques (0.25 g) and 7- and 9-day-old whole seedlings (0.5 g) were used for ABA measurement. For seed storage protein analysis 20 wild-type seeds or four emerging vegetative leaves from wild-type and ML1::FUS3 plantlets were extracted and analyzed by SDS-PAGE as described in CITATION .
