!~ABS~! Amino acids are regarded as the nitrogen ‘currency’ of plants. Amino acids can be taken up from the soil directly or synthesized from inorganic nitrogen, and then circulated in the plant via phloem and xylem. AtAAP3, a member of the Amino Acid Permease (AAP) family, is mainly expressed in root tissue, suggesting a potential role in the uptake and distribution of amino acids. To determine the spatial expression pattern of AAP3, promoter–reporter gene fusions were introduced into Arabidopsis. Histochemical analysis of AAP3 promoter–GUS expressing plants revealed that AAP3 is preferentially expressed in root phloem. Expression was also detected in stamens, in cotyledons, and in major veins of some mature leaves. GFP–AAP3 fusions and epitope-tagged AAP3 were used to confirm the tissue specificity and to determine the subcellular localization of AtAAP3. When overexpressed in yeast or plant protoplasts, the functional GFP–AAP3 fusion was localized in subcellular organelle-like structures, nuclear membrane, and plasma membrane. Epitope-tagged AAP3 confirmed its localization to the plasma membrane and nuclear membrane of the phloem, consistent with the promoter–GUS study. In addition, epitope-tagged AAP3 protein was localized in endodermal cells in root tips. The intracellular localization suggests trafficking or cycling of the transporter, similar to many metabolite transporters in yeast or mammals, for example, yeast amino acid permease GAP1. Despite the specific expression pattern, knock-out mutants did not show altered phenotypes under various conditions including N-starvation. Microarray analyses revealed that the expression profile of genes involved in amino acid metabolism did not change drastically, indicating potential compensation by other amino acid transporters.
!~RES~! RNA gel blot analyses indicated that AAP3 is specifically expressed in roots. To study the potential role of AAP3 in uptake or distribution of organic nitrogen in Arabidopsis, a genomic clone was isolated from a cosmid library from Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype C24 and the promoter region was isolated and analysed. 2.2 kb of this fragment were sequenced (Genbank acc. AX300470). The sequence is 96% identical to that of ecotype Col-0. To analyse the expression pattern in more detail, promoter–GUS studies were performed. A 1.5 kb promoter fragment was fused to the GUS gene (AAP3–GUSS) and Arabidopsis plants were transformed (Fig. 1). As opposed to previous RNA gel blot analyses showing high expression mainly in roots (CITATION), in 3-week-old transgenic plants, the promoter was active mainly in cotyledons and in major veins of some leaves, but only weakly active in roots (Fig. 2A). Twelve out of 14 lines showed weak and patchy staining or no staining (three lines out of 14) in roots. To test whether additional elements upstream are required for high level expression in roots, a 3.8 kb fragment of the AAP3 promoter (AAP3–GUSL) was used to include additional elements (Fig. 1). All 19 lines carrying the 3.8 kb promoter showed strong staining in root vascular tissue in addition to expression in cotyledons and major veins of some leaves (Fig. 2B). Considering that AAP3 expression is also strongly detected in root tissue at the RNA level (CITATION), the GUS expression pattern of the 3.8 kb promoter construct is in agreement with the native expression in wild-type plants. Therefore, further studies were focused on AAP3–GUSL plants. In mature roots, expression of GUS is localized to two vascular strands in the central cylinder (Fig. 2C). The Arabidopsis root is typically diarch, containing two phloem strands. Normally, cells between two protoxylems differentiate into metaxylem, generating a continuous file of xylem elements. Therefore, the staining pattern indicates expression in phloem tissue. Cross-sections of mature, secondary-thickened roots verified expression in the phloem (Fig. 2D). GUS staining in root vascular tissue was stronger in the side roots (Fig. 2E), and was detected all along the root down to ∼1.5–2 cm from the root tip. No staining was detected in the tip of the root (Fig. 2F). AAP3 promoter–GUS expression was also observed in flowers, i.e. at the tip of filaments (Fig. 2G). Interestingly, GUS activity in stamens was not found in earlier developmental stages (data not shown). In Arabidopsis, dehiscence usually takes place just before anthesis. Cross-sections of flowers showed GUS activity in the filament of the stamen before dehiscence (Fig. 2H, I), indicating that the expression is induced just before dehiscence. To test whether the promoter is also functional in other species, tobacco plants were transformed with both constructs. Similar to Arabidopsis, AAP3–GUSS plants showed almost no GUS expression in the vascular system of roots (data not shown), whereas AAP3–GUSL plants showed strong staining (Fig. 2K). No GUS activity was detected in leaves of AAP3–GUSL tobacco plants (data not shown). These results confirm the finding that the larger fragment contains putative enhancer motifs. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Sequence analysis of the complete 5′-upstream region of AAP3 from Col-0 revealed several features in the putative promoter (Fig. 1). A potential TATA-box was located at position −78 bp relative to the first base of the AAP3 cDNA (CITATION). Since transcriptional initiation was not confirmed experimentally, it is unknown whether this corresponds to the native TATA-box. The sequence between −1076 bp to −1675 bp is AT-rich and repetitive in the Arabidposis genome; more than 50 homologous repeats (>85%) were found. This region consists of four parts, an AT-rich AtREP2 sequence, a pair of internal repeats (named repeat1 and repeat2 sharing 88% homology; Fig. 1) and an AtREP3 sequence. Bioinformatic analysis using the PLACE database (CITATION) revealed multiple putative regulatory boxes. Considering that the longer promoter is required for strong root expression, AAP3–GUSL may contain additional enhancer elements, i.e. an At1box enhancer found in rbc-3A (CITATION), or a scaffold/matrix attachment region (S/MAR) signature sequence found ∼2 kb upstream of ATG. This sequence occurs rarely and is conserved in seven individual S/MAR from Arabidopsis (CITATION). To investigate the intracellular localization of AAP3, a GFP–AAP3 fusion was constructed. As GFP is quenched by acidic pH, the fusion protein was constructed in such a way as to allow GFP to face the cytosol. Experimental analysis of the topology of AAP1 (NAT2) suggested that the N-terminus of AAP1 is located in the cytoplasm whereas the C-terminus is directed towards the apoplasm (CITATION). Bioinformatic analyses (CITATION) suggest the same topology for AAP3. Therefore the coding sequence of AAP3 was fused at the 3′-end of the GFP gene (Fig. 3B). Yeast complementation showed that the fusion encodes a functional transporter (Fig. 4A-C). The GFP–AAP3 fusion protein was detected in the yeast plasma membrane, and also in internal structures, especially as a ring around the nucleus, potentially indicating accumulation in karmellae (Fig. 4H–L). In BY-2 cells, fluorescence from GFP alone was found in the cytosol and the nucleus (Fig. 5A). GFP–AAP3 was found preferentially in punctate structures in the cytosol (Fig. 5B). Localization of GFP–AAP3 protein to the plasma membrane was also visible, whereas the tonoplast was never associated with GFP fluorescence. To test whether the accumulation in intracellular structures is due to accumulation of the membrane protein in the late endosome, Brefeldin A (BFA), a vesicle trafficking inhibitor, was added (CITATION). BFA treatment led to the disappearance of the dot-like structure and a more diffuse pattern (Fig. 5C), indicating that the punctate structures might correspond to Golgi bodies. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Since the studies using the GFP–AAP3 fusion protein did not lead to a clear elucidation of the subcellular localization, and to confirm the AAP3 promoter–GUS studies, protein localization was investigated using epitope-tagged AAP3. Three copies of the c-Myc motif were fused to the 5′-end of the AAP3 translational start within the genomic clone (Fig. 6A). The construct, which contains ∼2.5 kb of its native promoter region, the whole coding region including all introns, and 400 bp of the 3′-UTR, was used to transform tobacco and Arabidopsis. In tobacco plants, c-MycAAP3 was detected mainly in the phloem, consistent with the results of promoter–GUS experiments (Fig. 6C). Nine independent transgenic tobacco lines were analysed and six of them gave comparable patterns of localization, whereas no signals were detected in the roots of the other three lines (data not shown). In several cases, nuclei were observed in the cells expressing c-MycAAP3, suggesting that these were companion cells (Fig. 6D). The protein was present both on the plasma membrane and the nuclear membrane. In Arabidopsis, the protein was also found in the cells in the phloem (Fig. 6E). The immunoreaction was not uniform, but was in patches as in BY-2 cells. In addition, endodermal cells at the primary and secondary root tips also expressed c-MycAAP3, again not only at the plasma membrane but also in the internal membranes, i.e. nuclear envelopes (Fig. 6F, G, I). The presence of c-MycAAP3 in the endodermis was not seen in the AAP3–GUSL plants, indicating that sequences downstream of the promoter are responsible for expression in the endodermis. When roots were treated with Brefeldin A, an inhibitor of vesicular transport, the fusion protein accumulated in intracellular particles, supporting the idea that c-MycAAP3 is on its way to the plasma membrane (Fig. 6G). Immunogold localization on ultrathin cryosections at the transmission electron microscope (TEM) level shows plasma membrane localization (Fig. 6K, M) as well as intracellular accumulation at the nuclear membrane (Fig. 6L), at multivesicular body-like vesicles (Fig. 6M), at Golgi bodies (Fig. 6N), at the ER, and the cell plate (not shown). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To investigate the function of AAP3, two independent Arabidopsis lines carrying T-DNA insertions in the AAP3 gene were isolated by reverse genetic screens of Arabidopsis mutants generated at the University of Wisconsin Knockout Arabidopsis facility. Sequence analysis confirmed that aap3-1 and aap3-2 contain T-DNA insertions in the sixth and second exon of AAP3, respectively (Fig. 7A). RT-PCR revealed that both alleles do not express functional transcripts. Primer pairs specifically amplifying a unique fragment of AAP3 downstream (aap3-2) or on the both sides (aap3-1) of the insertions from seedling cDNA confirmed that the insertions destroyed the locus (Fig. 7B). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] After isolating homozygous aap3-1 and aap3-2 and after backcrossing, plants were grown under various conditions (soil, on agar medium with ammonium, nitrate or amino acids as the sole nitrogen source, toxic amino acid analogues, nitrogen starvation) and compared to the Wassilewskija wild type. However, under the conditions tested, no obvious difference in growth was observed between wild-type and aap3 plants (data not shown). To investigate whether aap3 mutants are affected in amino acid uptake, the transport of 14C-labelled amino acids was measured. Since AAP3 mediates the uptake of neutral and basic amino acids when expressed in yeast and Xenopus oocyte cells, glutamine, proline, aspartate, histidine, and lysine were chosen for the assay. In all three cases, uptake was sensitive to the protonophore CCCP (Fig. 7C, D), however, no significant differences in uptake rates relative to the wild type were observed. Even though aap3 mutants did not show visible phenotypes under the conditions tested, the insertion might have effects on gene regulation. To investigate whether aap3 mutants show a molecular phenotype, DNA microarray analysis was performed. Since many reactions of amino acid synthesis pathways are located in chloroplasts (CITATION), custom-made GST arrays representing 3292 genes, most of which code known or predicted chloroplast proteins, were used. The arrays were hybridized with labelled cDNA probes from 18-d-old wild-type or aap3-1 Arabidopsis seedlings. Among 3292 genes, 239 genes were significantly up-regulated in aap3-1, whereas 581 genes were down-regulated (Supplementary data: see Supplementary Table 1 at Journal of Experimental Botany online). Overall, the observed change in the transcript profile was relatively small, the highest overrepresentation and lowest underrepresentation in aap3-1 was 2.1-fold (observed for the Lhcb1.2 gene, At1g29910) and 0.46-fold (observed for a putative protein, At4g22650) compared with the wild type, respectively. Among the genes involved in amino acid metabolism, the largest increase was observed for the putative 2-isopropylmalate synthase gene (At1g18500, 1.9-fold) and the largest decrease was observed for a plastid-localized aspartate aminotransferase (At4g31990, 0.59-fold). The relatively small change in the gene expression profile, together with the fact that significant differences could not be detected in amino acid levels in aap3-1 and aap3-2 plants compared with the wild type (data not shown), indicates that the defect in AAP3 function does not lead to a prominent change in metabolism, at least under the conditions tested, possibly due to compensation.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana L. ecotype Col-0 and Nicotiana tabacum cv. Samsun NN were grown either in axenic culture on MS medium supplemented with 2% sucrose or in soil culture in the greenhouse. Arabidopsis plants were transformed using Agrobacterium tumefaciens pGV2260 via vacuum infiltration (CITATION). Tobacco plants were transformed as described by CITATION. The suspension culture of the Tobacco Bright Yellow-2 (BY-2) cell line was grown as described by CITATION. A genomic clone carrying the promoter region of AAP3 was isolated from a genomic cosmid library from Arabidopsis thaliana C24 (CITATION). A 500 bp promoter fragment including a native HindIII site at the 5′-end was amplified by PCR to introduce BamHI sites before the first ATG of the AtAAP3 gene using primers 5′-GAGGGAAAATCCTTTTGTTTGTGCTCT and 5′-AATACGACTCACTATAG. The PCR product was fused with the flanking upstream 1 kb SacII/HindIII fragment excised from the cosmid and cloned together into pBluescript. The resulting 1.5 kb promoter fragment was cloned into the SacII/BamHI sites of pBlueGUS3 (pBlueGUS3 carries a 1809 bp uidA fragment followed by a 203 bp octopine synthase terminator sequence cloned as a SmaI fragment into the SmaI/HindIII (blunted) site of pBluescript SK-; T Martin and WB Frommer, unpublished result), creating a 1.5 kb promoter–GUS transcriptional fusion, which was then digested with SacII/XbaI and cloned into pGPTV-HPT (CITATION). For the longer 3.8 kb AAP3 promoter–GUS fusion, a 2.3 kb HindIII/SacII fragment further upstream was partially digested from the cosmid clone and inserted in front of the 1.5 kb promoter. For constructing the GFP-AAP3 fusion protein, a 300 bp fragment corresponding to the 5′-end of the AAP3 open reading frame and carrying a BglII site and 15 bp of linker sequence in front of the start ATG of AtAAP3 was amplified by PCR using primers 5′-ACCAAAAGATCTGGGGGAGGGGGAGGGATGGTTCAAAACCACCAAACAGTTCTCGC-3′ and 5′-GTGACGGCAGAGAAGAGCAACATCACCACC-3′. The PCR product was exchanged with the original sequence of the AAP3 cDNA in pBluescript using a native RsrII restriction site, and then cloned into the BglII site of pAVA321 (CITATION), carrying the GFP gene under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. For yeast transformation, the GFP–AAP3 fusion gene was excised with XhoI/NotI and cloned into pDR195 (CITATION). For the construction of c-MycAAP3, the EcoRI/HindII AAP3 genomic fragment was cloned in pBluescript. Two different PCR fragments (a fragment corresponding to the 680 bp upstream sequence of the starting codon of AAP3 and carrying the SalI site at the 3′-end, and a fragment corresponding to 370 bp behind the start codon of AAP3 and the carrying SalI and Eco47III sites at the 5′-end) were generated by PCR using primers 5′-GCTGTTTTCTAAATAAATTTAGTTTGTCCACGG-3′, 5′-TCCGTCGAGCATCTTTTGTTTGTTTTGCTCTG-3′, 5′-GATGGTCGACGGAAGCGCTGGAAGTGGAGATATGGTTCAAAACCACCAAACAG-3′ and 5′-GTGACGGCAGAGAAGAGCAACATCACCACC-3′. The resulting fragments were fused at the SalI site and exchanged with the original sequence of the AAP3 genomic clone using native SnaBI and RsrII sites, resulting in the AAP3 genomic clone carrying SalI and Eco47III site after the starting codon (SalI-Eco47III-AAP3). Three repeats of the c-Myc epitope motif were generated by annealing complementary 100 bp primers containing overhangs for SalI and Eco47III (5′-TCGACGGAGAGCAAAAGCTGATCTCAGAGGAGGACCTGCTTGGAGAACAGAAGTTAATTTCTGAGGAAGACCTCCTGGGAGAGCAAAAGCTGATTAGCGAGGAGGATCTGCTCAGC and 5′-GCTGAGCAGATCCTCCTCGCTAATCAGCTTTTGCTCTCCCAGGAGGTCTTCCTCAGAAATTAACTTCTGTTCTCCAAGCAGGTCCTCCTCTGAGATCAGCTTTTGCTCTCCG). The annealed primers were inserted into the SalI and Eco47III sites of SalI-Eco47III-AAP3, resulting in a c-Myc sequence fused to the AAP3 genomic clone (c-MycAAP3). The c-MycAAP3 sequence was cloned into two plant binary vectors pJH212 and pPZP312, both pPZP212 (U10462) derived vectors carrying kanamycin and basta resistance genes, respectively. Yeast 22Δ8AA [MATα, ura3-1, gap-1, put4-1, uga4-1, can1::HisG, lyp/alp::HisG, hip1::HisG, and dip5::HisG] (CITATION) was transformed, selected on NAAG-ammonium medium (1.7 g l−1 Yeast Nitrogen Base, Difco, 10 g l−1 glucose, 20 g l−1 Oxoid Agar, Difco, supplemented with 5 g l−1 NH4SO4), and used for growth tests on NAAG medium supplemented with 3 mM L-proline as the sole nitrogen source. For microscopy, yeast cells were grown overnight in NAAG at 28 °C, fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde and 3.4% sucrose, stained with 4′,6′-diamidino-2-phenylindole dihydrochloride (DAPI 2.5 μg ml−1) and observed with Leica DM RE microscopy (Leica, Germany). Histochemical assays for β-glucuronidase activity were performed as described (CITATION). Tissues were cut into 2×5 mm pieces, incubated in GUS staining solution containing 100 mM sodium phosphate (pH 7), 10 mM EDTA, 3 mM K4[Fe(CN)6], 0.5 mM K3[Fe(CN)6], 0.1% (v/v) Triton X-100, 2 mM 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-D-glucuronic acid (X-Gluc) for 3–24 h at 37 °C. Slight vacuum was applied before incubation to facilitate substrate infiltration. For resin sections, X-Gluc-stained tissues were fixed in 4% glutaraldehyde, and 50 mM sodium phosphate (pH 7) overnight at 4 °C. Fixed tissues were dehydrated in ethanol and embedded in LR White resin (London Resin Company Ltd). Embedded material was cut into 1.5–5 μm sections with glass knives using an ultramicrotome and observed by bright field and phase contrast microscopy. Root sections were counterstained with periodic acid and Schiff's reagent. Protoplasts from tobacco BY-2 cultures were prepared as described by CITATION. Transient transformation of the protoplasts with PEG was performed according to the protocol of CITATION. For confocal laser scanning microscopy, protoplasts were incubated overnight at 24 °C in the dark after transformation and observed with a Leica DM RE microscope (Leica, Germany). Immunolabelling was performed as described by CITATION with slight modifications. Roots of c-MycAAP3-expressing tobacco plants were embedded in 5% low melting temperature agarose. Blocks were sectioned (∼100 μm) on a Leica VT1000S microtome (Leica, Germany). Sections were fixed immediately in 3% formaldehyde in PBS for 30 min on ice, washed three times with PBS (PBS; 58 mM Na2HPO4, 15 mM NaH2PO4, 68 mM NaCl, pH 7.4, and 6.7 mM EGTA), and labelled with mouse monoclonal anti-c-Myc antibody (Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Inc., USA) overnight at 4 °C. The first antibody was visualized by either FITC-conjugated goat anti-mouse antibody (Sigma, USA) or Cy3-conjugated goat anti-mouse antibody (Jackson ImmunoResearch Inc., USA). Sections were observed with a Leica DM RE confocal microscope (Leica, Bensheim, Germany). Whole mount immunodetection on Arabidopsis roots was performed essentially as described in CITATION using PBS (137 mM NaCl, 8.1 mM Na2HPO4, 2.68 mM KCl, and 1.47 mM KH2PO4) instead of microtubule-stabilizing buffer (MSB; 50 mM PIPES, 5 mM EGTA, and 5 mM MgSO4 pH 7.0). For thin cryosection labelling, root tips were fixed with 4% formaldehyde in MSB for 30 min, followed by fixation with 8% formaldehyde in MSB for 45 min on ice. Fixed root tips were embedded in 10% gelatine; gelatine blocks containing root tips were infiltrated in 2.1 M sucrose in PBS, pH 7.2, and frozen in liquid nitrogen. Ultrathin (100 nm) and semithick cryosections (300 nm) were obtained using a Leica Ultracut UCT/EM FCS cryo-ultramicrotome at -100 °C and -80 °C, respectively. Thawed cryosections were incubated with monoclonal anti-c-Myc antibody (1:100) in blocking buffer (1% milk powder, 0.5% BSA, in PBS) for 60 min. After washing with blocking buffer, bound antibodies were detected with Cy3-conjugated goat anti-mouse antibody or goat anti-mouse IgG-Nanogold (Nanoprobes, USA). The silver enhancement was performed as described by CITATION and CITATION. Final embedding was done in 2% methyl cellulose (Sigma, M-6385) for transmission electron microscopy or in Mowiol 4.88 (Hoechst, Germany) for immunofluorescence microscopy. Semithick sections were viewed in a Zeiss Axiophot light microscope, ultrathin sections in a LEO 906 transmission electron microscope. Arabidopsis T-DNA insertion lines generated at the University of Wisconsin Knockout Arabidopsis facility (http://www.biotech.wisc.edu/Arabidopsis/) were screened as described by CITATION. Insertions were detected with PCR primers specific to the AAP3 gene (5′-CAGTTCTCGCCGTCGATATGCCACAAACC-3′; 5′-GATCAAGAAGTACTCCAGCTATGGACCC-3′) and to the left border T-DNA insertion sequence (5′-CATTTTATAATAACGCTGCGGACATCTAC-3′). Homozygosity was determined by PCR with AAP3 primers spanning the coding region of AAP3. Total RNA was isolated from 18-d-old whole Arabidopsis plants grown on MS media containing 58 mM sucrose, under 14/10 h light/dark at 21.5 °C. First strand cDNA synthesis was performed using M-MLV reverse transcriptase (MBI Fermentas, Germany) and oligo-dT18, according to the manufacturer's protocol. RT-PCR reactions were performed using AAP3 gene-specific primers (5′-CTTGCTGCTTGTTACCGCTCC; 5′-CTACAATTCTTGCCTTCAGGG). Total RNA from 18-d-old whole Arabidopsis plants were isolated as described above. The hybridization and analysis of the nuclear chloroplast gene array containing 3292 Araibidopsis gene-sequence tags (GSTs) were performed as described in CITATION.
