!~ABS~! The eukaryotic nucleolus is involved in ribosome biogenesis and a wide range of other RNA metabolism and cellular functions. An important step in the functional analysis of the nucleolus is to determine the complement of proteins of this nuclear compartment. Here, we describe the first proteomic analysis of plant (Arabidopsis thaliana) nucleoli, in which we have identified 217 proteins. This allows a direct comparison of the proteomes of an important nuclear structure between two widely divergent species: human and Arabidopsis. The comparison identified many common proteins, plant-specific proteins, proteins of unknown function found in both proteomes, and proteins that were nucleolar in plants but nonnucleolar in human. Seventy-two proteins were expressed as GFP fusions and 87% showed nucleolar or nucleolar-associated localization. In a striking and unexpected finding, we have identified six components of the postsplicing exon-junction complex (EJC) involved in mRNA export and nonsense-mediated decay (NMD)/mRNA surveillance. This association was confirmed by GFP-fusion protein localization. These results raise the possibility that in plants, nucleoli may have additional functions in mRNA export or surveillance.
!~RES~! Nucleoli were purified from nuclei prepared from Arabidopsis cell culture protoplasts. The nucleolar preparation was characterized by phase contrast optical microscopy and also by fluorescence microscopy after staining with 7 μM pyronin Y (a nucleolus-specific fluorescent stain) and showed small discrete nucleoli, essentially free of contaminating nuclear debris and chromatin (Figure 1A). The nucleoli were also characterized by immunofluorescence labeling with an antibody to the nucleolar protein, SSB1 (unpublished data). Tandem mass spectrometric analysis of complex mixtures of peptides, generated by tryptic digestion of aliquots of the nucleolar preparation, identified 217 different proteins (Figure 1B; Supplementary Table 1). [[FIGURE]] The inserts from 76 cDNA clones were transferred into a plant Gateway-compatible binary vector, designed to express N-terminal GFP-protein fusions from the Cauliflower Mosaic Virus (CaMV) 35S promoter (CITATION). For localization we used transient expression in Arabidopsis cell cultures using Agrobacterium infection (CITATION), which gave strong, reproducible expression. GFP fluorescence was successfully detected in 72 clones and expression patterns were imaged using either confocal microscopy or wide-field CCD imaging followed by image deconvolution. Although it is possible that some of the localizations observed may be affected by the addition of GFP or by overexpression in the transient system, the range of different labeling patterns observed, the expected localization of proteins of known function (e.g., ribosomal and snoRNP proteins), and the differential localization of similar proteins (e.g., the ALY family) argue against the observed patterns being artifacts. In addition, use of the CCD camera allowed the imaging of cells which fluoresced weakly to minimize the possibility of artifacts due to overexpression. For each fusion, a range of cells with relatively low levels of fluorescence were examined. The localization of each construct was annotated with a controlled vocabulary (nucleolus, nucleolar-associated structure, nuclear bodies, nucleoplasm and extranuclear). This annotation is included in Supplementary Table 1. Overall statistics of the localization are shown in Table 1, and a selection of different GFP fusions is shown in Figure 2. Different localization patterns were observed with various combinations of labeling of the nucleolus, nucleolar-associated structures, nuclear bodies, nucleoplasm, or extranuclear labeling. In some cases, the fusion proteins were largely restricted to the nucleolus (e.g., Figure 2, A and L), whereas in others, the nucleoplasm (e.g., Figure 2, B, G, H, and I) and/or other nuclear structures or regions were also labeled. Many fusion proteins (28%) labeled small nuclear bodies in addition to the nucleolus, some of which were reminiscent of Cajal bodies or speckles, (e.g., Figure 2, D-F, H, R, and S). Some fusions showed clear labeling of nucleolar-associated structures (Figure 2, P and Q) or subdomains (Figure 2, C and L). From the 72 GFP fusions surveyed, 42 (58%) showed strong labeling of the nucleolus and 21 (29%) showed weak labeling (e.g., Figure 2, G and I) such that 87% showed some degree of labeling of the nucleolus and thus would be expected to be present in a purified nucleolar fraction. On the other hand, two GFP-fusions labeled the nucleoplasm and appeared to be excluded from the nucleolus (unpublished data). Only 6 (9%) showed only extranuclear/cytoplasmic labeling and of the 217 proteins, and only 18 (8%) are putative cytoplasmic, chloroplast, or mitochondrial proteins. Because of the greater sensitivity of detection by mass spectrometry, the results from GFP fluorescence may be an underestimate of the number of proteins in the nucleolus. Lack of accumulation in the nucleolus of some GFP fusions may be due to the protein being either present in low abundance or only transiently associated with the nucleolus at particular cell stages or under certain conditions (CITATION; CITATION). Overall, these results provide the most practical assessment and verification that the majority of identified proteins are bona fide nucleolar components.  [[FIGURE]] Of the Arabidopsis nucleolar set of 217 proteins, 186 (86%) and 145 (67%) had homologous proteins encoded in the human and yeast genomes, respectively (Supplementary Table 1). We also compared the Arabidopsis proteins to the core set of 692 proteins identified in the human nucleolus (Lamond and Mann, unpublished data), which extends the initial, published human nucleolar proteome of 271 proteins (CITATION). Just over two-thirds (69%) of the Arabidopsis proteins had a direct counterpart in the human nucleolar proteome. The profile of the Arabidopsis nucleolar proteome resembled that of human in containing many expected nucleolar proteins (e.g., nucleolin, B23, NOL1, NOLC1, Nopp34, etc.), ribosome biogenesis proteins (e.g., RRS1 and RRP5), and ribosomal proteins. In addition, there were many components of transcription, splicing, and translation, DEAD box proteins and RNA/DNA interacting/modifying proteins, nucleotide-binding proteins, and chaperones. Thirty-seven proteins were of unknown function (Figure 1B and Supplementary Table 1). All eight core proteins of the box C/D and box H/ACA snoRNPs (fibrillarin, NOP5/NOP58, NOP56, p15.5 (Snu13p homologue), and GAR1, DKC1 (Cbf5p/NAP57), NOP10 and NHP2) were present, along with U3snoRNP-specific proteins (U3-55k and Mpp10), and nonsnoRNP proteins involved in snoRNP assembly or nucleolar localization (TIP48, TIP49, and Nopp140/NOLC1; CITATION; CITATION; Watkins et al., CITATION, CITATION; CITATION). Arabidopsis contains three fibrillarin genes but only two, AtFib1 and AtFib2, are expressed (CITATION), and both are detected in the proteomic analysis. In addition, among a range of RNA-interacting proteins were nine DEAD/H box putative RNA helicase proteins, a class of proteins with important functions in RNA metabolism (CITATION). These included the nucleolar RNA helicase II (DDX21), two splicing helicases, including UAP56, and eIF-4AIII, recently identified as an exon junction complex protein (see below). In addition, five other DEAD/H box proteins identified (DDX3, DDX9, DDX10, DDX15, and DDX18) were also found in the human proteome. Nearly 60 different ribosomal proteins were identified making up 27% of the proteins detected in the Arabidopsis proteomic analysis. The multigenic nature of many plant and Arabidopsis genes is clearly demonstrated by ribosomal protein genes where, to date, 249 genes have been identified in the Arabidopsis genome (CITATION). The 249 genes represent variants of 80 different ribosomal protein genes, organized into gene families with two to seven members (CITATION), and contrasts greatly with human and yeast where most ribosomal proteins are encoded by a single gene. Where gene families encode identical or very similar proteins (e.g., RPS18, RPL29, RPL36a, RPL38, and RPL40), the different isoforms may not be distinguished by the MS analysis. In contrast, for other gene families which encode proteins with more variable sequences (e.g., L7Ae, L22, and L23), different isoforms were identified. The direct comparison between the protein profiles of Arabidopsis and human nucleoli has given rise to a number of novel observations. First, 23 proteins of unknown function were plant specific, possibly reflecting the differences in structure of plant and animal nucleoli (CITATION), differences in rRNA gene organization and transcription and the presence of a nucleolar cavity. For example, five of the plant-specific proteins are potential DNA-interacting proteins, which may reflect differences in plant rRNA transcription (CITATION). Second, 10 proteins of unknown function were conserved proteins found in both plant and animal nucleoli. One such protein (DKFZP564M182-At3g58660) was also present in a proteomic analysis of human Nop56p-containing pre-rRNP complexes (CITATION), demonstrating its close association with ribosome biogenesis. Similarly, the WD-repeat-containing protein of unknown function encoded by At3g21540 is a homologue of Utp12p found in the yeast SSU processome, along with U3snoRNP proteins, Rrp5p and Rrp9p (CITATION). Some of the other human/plant conserved proteins contained recognized domains involved in RNA-protein and protein-protein interactions: WD40 repeat, GTPase- and RNA-binding domains. Of 12 plant-specific or plant-human conserved proteins for which GFP fusions were constructed, 10 labeled the nucleolus strongly, with some also labeling nuclear bodies (e.g., Figure 2, Q-T). Third, many known proteins, not expected to be nucleolar proteins, were either found in both proteomes or strongly associated only with the plant nucleolus. For example, our results show the presence in the nucleolus of many proteins involved in pre-mRNA splicing and translation. This confirms similar unexpected findings in the human nucleolar proteome (CITATION; CITATION). In Arabidopsis, the majority of splicing proteins detected were snRNP core proteins: SmD1, SmD2, SmD3, SmF, and SmG, and snRNP-specific proteins: U2A′, and the U5 116k and 200k proteins. This observation is consistent with previous evidence for the presence of U1, U2, and U6 snRNAs in the nucleolar cavity in plant nucleoli (CITATION). In addition, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), a glycolytic enzyme, was found in both the Arabidopsis and human nucleolar proteomes. The Arabidopsis GAPDH:GFP fusion protein showed clear labeling of the nucleoplasm and fainter labeling of the nucleolus. Thirty-nine (18%) of the Arabidopsis proteins have human homologues that, however, are not present in the more extensive human nucleolar proteome. This number is too great to represent contamination of the plant nucleolar preparation and indeed only five of these proteins are probable contaminants, being organellar, or associated with ER or peroxisomes. The remaining proteins potentially reflect either divergent functions or different localization between organisms and include, for example, exon junction complex (EJC) proteins (see below) and S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) synthetase. A surprising finding was the presence in the nucleolar proteome of six proteins known from animal studies to be part of the exon junction complex (EJC): ALY/REF, Mago, Y14, UAP56, RNPS1, and the eukaryotic translation initiation factor eIF4A-III (eIF4A-III; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The EJC is a multiprotein complex that marks splice junctions in mRNAs after mRNA splicing, linking transcription and processing to mRNA export and NMD (CITATION; CITATION). The EJC contains spliceosome-associated proteins (ALY, UAP56, RNPS1, SRm160, and DEK); Y14 and Mago, which interact with mRNP export adaptor proteins (p15 and TAP); and proteins involved in nonsense-mediated decay (Upf2 and Upf3; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The Arabidopsis proteins AtUAP56-2, AtY14, AtRNPS1, AtALY-4, and AteIF4A-III all showed clear localization to the nucleolus as well as labeling of the nucleoplasm (Figure 3). AtY14 labels the nucleolus much more strongly than the nucleoplasm and, in particular, the peripheral nucleolar region. In addition it is located in foci in the nucleolar cavity (CITATION; CITATION; Figure 3A). AtY14 is also concentrated in numerous small nucleoplasmic bodies compared with the faint, diffuse labeling of the nucleoplasm. In contrast, AtMago shows strong nucleoplasmic labeling with a number of small bodies and fainter punctuate nucleolar labeling (Figure 3B). AtRNPS1 shows intense foci in the nucleolar cavity with diffuse, nonuniform nucleoplasmic labeling (Figure 3C). AtUAP56-2 also shows accumulation in the nucleolar cavity but is more diffuse than AtY14 or AtRNPS1 and also shows strong nucleoplasmic labeling. AtALY-4 labels the nucleolus strongly and shows a more discrete nuclear speckled labeling (Figure 3E). Finally, AteIF4A-III labels the nucleolus and nuclear bodies strongly with fainter nucleoplasmic labeling (Figure 3F). Thus, all six EJC proteins found in the nucleolar proteomic preparation showed localization in the nucleolus, suggesting that the nucleolus may be a site of storage, assembly, or function of the EJC components or complexes or involved in other RNA metabolism processes. [[FIGURE]] We have also identified Arabidopsis homologues of all known EJC components (Table 2). AtALY, AtUAP56, At-DEK, and Atp15 comprise small multigene families (Table 2), which is a feature of many plant genes and may reflect the prevalence of hybridization and polyploidy in plant evolution (CITATION). The remaining EJC components had a single homologue, apart from TAP, for which no plant homologue has yet been identified. To investigate whether there are potential functional differences between homologues, full-length cDNAs and GFP-fusions were prepared for the three remaining ALY genes (AtALY-1, AtALY-2, and AtALY-3). The labeling pattern of each of the four AtALY proteins was distinct, showing differential nuclear and subnuclear localizations. AtALY-2 labeled the nucleoplasm strongly in a speckled network including bright foci, with only very faint labeling of the nucleolus (Figure 4B). Like AtALY-4, both AtALY-1 and AtALY-3 labeled the nucleolus strongly (Figure 4, A and C) but nucleoplasmic labeling with AtALY-3 was less intense than with the other ALY homologues. AtALY-1 showed a small number of intensely staining bodies, in contrast to AtALY-4, which had a speckled pattern. AtALY-3 consistently labeled a peripheral region of the nucleolus.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! An Arabidopsis suspension culture derived from a Landsberg erecta line was used as a source of material for nucleolar purification. Cultures were grown at 25°C in the light with constant shaking on an orbital incubator at 200 rpm in AT medium (4.4% Murashige & Skoog salts, 3% sucrose, 0.05 mg/L kinetin, and 0.5 mg/L NAA, pH 5.8) and were harvested 3 d after subculturing by gentle centrifugation, and then protoplasts were generated essentially as described by Saxena et al. (CITATION). Cells were treated with cell wall degrading enzymes (2% cellulase R10; Onozuka, Tokyo, Japan, 0.025% pectolyase Y23, Seishin Corp, Tokyo, Japan, made up in 0.5 M sorbitol, 10 mM MES (2-N-morpholino-ethane-sulfonic acid)-KOH, pH 5.5, 1 mM CaCl2) for ∼3 h at room temperature (RT), until smooth, round protoplasts were obtained, as judged by light microscopy. The protoplasts were spun at 300 × g for 5 min and resuspended in 60% percoll buffer (60% percoll in 0.44 M sorbitol, 10 mM MES-KOH, pH 5.5, 1 mM CaCl2), overlaid with a stepwise percoll gradient (45, 35, and 0% percoll in 0.44 M sorbitol, 10 mM MES-KOH, pH 5.5, 1 mM CaCl2), and spun at 300 × g for 5 min. The intact protoplasts floated to the 0-35% interface and were collected by pipette. They were washed twice in 0.5 M sorbitol, 10 mM MES-KOH, pH 5.5, 1 mM CaCl2 and quantified using a hemocytometer. Finally they were resuspended in Nuclear Isolation Buffer (NIB) at a concentration of no more than 106 protoplasts/ml (NIB: 10 mM MES-KOH, pH 5.5, 0.2 M sucrose, 2.5 mM EDTA, 2.5 mM dithiothreitol, 0.1 mM spermine, 0.1 mM spermidine, 10 mM NaCl, and 10 mM KCl) and were ruptured by 1-3 strokes in a stainless steel homogenizer. In some cases nuclei were produced first and then resuspended in NIB and further homogenized to produce nucleoli. The nucleoli were gently pelleted, then resuspended in 0.35 M sucrose, 0.5 mM MgCl2, and frozen in aliquots at -80°C. Control of the [Mg2+] was important; if Mg2+ was added to the NIB, the nucleoli could not be separated from the network of nuclear chromatin fibers, whereas without Mg2+ in the buffer the nucleoli began to show signs of disintegration after 1-2 h. Therefore Mg2+ was added to the storage buffer, within 30 min of nuclear breakage. 1 liter of cell culture generated 4.8 × 108 nuclei and subsequently 3.2 × 108 nucleoli. All stages were monitored by phase contrast light microscopy. Mass spectrometric analysis of isolated Arabidopsis nucleoli was done as previously described (CITATION). Briefly, Arabidopsis nucleoli from 20 μl of the suspension (4 × 105 nucleoli) were solubilized in 500 μl of 8 M urea, 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, and then reduced in 10 μg/ml DTT at RT for 1 h. Iodoactamide, 25 μg, and 1 μg of endoproteinase Lys-C (Roche) were added, and the mixture was incubated at RT for 3 h. The mixture was then diluted 5× with 25 mM Na2CO3 and incubated with 25 μg of trypsin (Promega, Madison, WI) at RT for an additional 8 h. The resulting peptide mixture was desalted and concentrated and then pressure-loaded onto a pulled fused silica capillary with an internal diameter of 100 μm and a tip opening of 8 μm (New Objective, Woburn, MA) filled with Vydac 218MSB3 3 μm reverse-phase material. Peptides were eluted directly into a quadrupole time-of flight mass spectrometer (MDS Sciex, Toronto, Ont., Canada) with a 90-min linear gradient of 5-60% buffer B (80% acetonitrile, 0.5% acetic acid, 0.02% heptafluorobutyric acid) from an HPLC system (Agilent, Palo Alto, CA). Combined peak lists were searched in the International Protein Index (IPI) database ( http://www.ebi.ac.uk/IPI/IPIhelp.html) using the Mascot program (Matrix Science, Boston, MA). Arabidopsis protein sequences identified in the proteomic analysis were compared with proteins encoded in the human and yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) genome and to the core set of 692 proteins identified in human nucleoli (CITATION, Lamond and Mann, unpublished data) using BLAST (CITATION). Alignments of all comparisons with an E value of more than 1.0e-20 were examined visually to determine their significance. To confirm the similarity of best matches between Arabidopsis and human proteins and to identify other related Arabidopsis genes, a reciprocal BLAST of the human protein with the highest score was carried out against the Arabidopsis protein database. In the majority of cases the human protein identified the original Arabidopsis protein or a related protein. The reciprocal BLAST analysis also identified homologous genes, providing information on multigene families. In a small number of cases, the human protein identified a different Arabidopsis protein than the original Arabidopsis protein. This suggests that either the homology between the proteins is low or limited to particular domains, and/or Arabidopsis contains proteins not identified in the proteomic analysis but which have stronger matches to human proteins. This may reflect different functions of the related proteins or that the limitations of the proteomic analysis have not yet identified all proteins in the plant nucleolus. The list of putative nucleolar proteins was used to search the SSP Orfeome database ( http://signal.salk.edu/SSP/). Approximately half of the cDNAs were available as trimmed U clones (cDNAs trimmed to the annotated start and stop codons in the Cre-Lox pUNI vector). The SSP clones were transferred to a binary plant expression vector, designed to express N-terminal GFP fusions of the proteins (i.e., GFP::protein fusions) and expressed in Arabidopsis suspension culture cells as described by Koroleva et al. (2004). Briefly, the coding regions from the SSP pUNI U clones were amplified by high-fidelity PCR using standard primers for the adjacent vector sequence and then inserted by recombinase cloning into a standard Gateway entry vector (pDONr207; www.invitrogen.com). The entry vector clones were then transferred by recombinase cloning, en masse in 96-well format, into Gateway binary plant expression vector GFP-N-bin (a gift from Ben Trewaskis, Canberra, ACT, Australia), designed to express N-terminal GFP fusions of the proteins (i.e., GFP::protein fusions). The binary vector clones were then used to transform Agrobacterium. The transformed Agrobacterium lines were used in transient expression experiments with Arabidopsis suspensions as described by Koroleva et al. (2004). For microscopy, a small volume of suspension was placed on a slide and covered with a coverglass, which was held in place by nail polish. Initial surveys of GFP expression were carried out on a Nikon E600 epifluorescence microscope (Nikon UK, Kingston upon Thames, United Kingdom). Detailed imaging was carried out either using a Leica SP laser scanning confocal microscope (Leica Microsystems, Heidelberg, Germany), or a wide-field CCD camera microscope (Orca ER, CCD camera, Prior filter wheels and X,Y,Z translation stage, controlled by Metamorph operating software; Universal Imaging, West Chester, PA). CCD images were deconvolved using a maximum likelihood blind restoration algorithm (Autodeblur, AutoQuant, Imaging, Troy, NY). The use of a high-sensitivity CCD camera enabled us to image faintly labeled cells, thus minimizing the chance of mis-localization due to overexpression. For each cell a single section through the middle of the nucleolus was selected from the 3D data stacks. Image montages were prepared using ImageJ, a public domain image processing program written by Wayne Rasband (available from http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/), and Adobe Photoshop (San Jose, CA).
