!~ABS~! Plant cells produce different microtubule arrays that are essential for cell division and morphogenesis without equivalent in other eukaryotes. Microtubule-associated proteins influence the behavior of microtubules that is presumed to culminate into transitions from one array to another. We analyzed the microtubule-binding properties of three Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) members, AtMAP65-1, AtMAP65-4, and AtMAP65-5, in live cells using laser scanning confocal microscopy. Depending on the overall organization of the cortical array, AtMAP65-1-GFP (green fluorescent protein) and AtMAP65-5-GFP associated with a subset of microtubules. In cells containing both coaligned and oblique microtubules, AtMAP65-1-GFP and AtMAP65-5-GFP tended to be associated with the coaligned microtubules. Cortical microtubules labeled with AtMAP65-1-GFP and AtMAP65-5-GFP appeared as thick bundles and showed more resistance to microtubule-destabilizing drugs. The polymerization rates of AtMAP65-1-GFP and AtMAP65-5-GFP microtubules were similar to those of tubulin-GFP marked microtubules but were different from AtEB1a-GFP, a microtubule plus-end-binding EB1-like protein that stimulated polymerization. By contrast, depolymerization rates of AtMAP65-1-GFP- and AtMAP65-5-GFP-labeled microtubules were reduced. AtMAP65-1-GFP associated with polymerizing microtubules within a bundle, and with fixed microtubule termini, suggesting that AtMAP65-1's function is to bundle and stabilize adjacent microtubules of the cortex. Polymerization within a bundle took place in either direction so that bundling occurred between parallel or antiparallel aligned microtubules. AtMAP65-4-GFP did not label cortical microtubules or the preprophase band, despite continuous expression driven by the 35S promoter, and its subcellular localization was restricted to microtubules that rearranged to form a spindle and the polar sides of the spindle proper. The expression of AtMAP65-4 peaked at mitosis, in agreement with a function related to spindle formation, whereas AtMAP65-1 and AtMAP65-5 were expressed throughout the cell cycle.
!~RES~! Previously, we have localized members of the MAP65 protein family by expression of GFP-fusion constructs in BY-2 cells (CITATION). The GFP-fusion products resulted in the differential labeling of cytoskeletal structures, suggesting that members of the MAP65 family have distinct microtubule-binding properties. To investigate the population of microtubules labeled by the GFP-fusion products, we imaged the GFP signal together with immunostained microtubules of BY-2 cells that produced either GFP-tagged tubulin (TUA6-GFP) or the AtMAP65-5-GFP fusion protein. Dual fluorescence imaging of microtubules decorated with anti-α-tubulin (red) and GFP-labeled microtubules (green) revealed that AtMAP65-5-GFP was associated with a subset of the cortical microtubules (Fig. 1A). The AtMAP65-5-GFP protein was predominantly associated with coaligned microtubules that were usually thicker than other microtubules crossing the cell in different directions. Transverse and obliquely oriented microtubules were labeled with TUA6-GFP as well as with the anti-α-tubulin antibody (Fig. 1B). Upon treatment of BY-2 cells carrying the MAP65-5-GFP construct with the severing drug oryzalin, microtubules were still clearly detected (Fig. 1C). Control cells that were treated likewise lost their TUA6-GFP-labeled microtubules almost completely (Fig. 1D). Thus, microtubules labeled with MAP65-5-GFP seemed more resistant to the severing drug oryzalin than nonlabeled microtubules. Next, we analyzed the sensitivity of microtubules to oryzalin in life cells by time-lapse microscopy. A short treatment of 90 min removed almost all microtubules in TUA6-GFP BY-2 cells (Fig. 1E). The same treatment applied to cells producing AtMAP65-5-GFP resulted in the incomplete depolymerization of the labeled microtubules (Fig. 1F). The remnant microtubules were more intensively labeled and appeared as thick bundles. [[FIGURE]] To determine the localization and to investigate the behavior of the MAP65 proteins in life cells, we coexpressed the GFP chimers together with monomeric red fluorescent protein (RFP; CITATION)-tagged tubulin (TUA2 and TUA6) or with RFP-tagged microtubule-binding domain (MBD) of MAP4. Introduction of TUA2-RFP, TUA6-RFP, and RFP-MBD in BY-2 allowed the visualization of homogeneously fluorescent cortical microtubules in the cell periphery (data not shown). The TUA2 fusion protein tended to give more specific microtubule labeling displaying lower background fluorescence in the cytoplasm than did TUA6-RFP. BY-2 suspension cultures producing RFP-MBD and TUA2-RFP were transformed with the AtMAP65-1-GFP, AtMAP65-4-GFP, and AtMAP65-5-GFP constructs. AtMAP65-1-GFP and AtMAP65-5-GFP strongly labeled the transversely organized cortical microtubules (Fig. 2). The microtubule bundles appeared to be thicker than those observed in cells producing TUA2-RFP or RFP-MBD alone (data not shown). BY-2 cells producing AtMAP65-4-GFP did not label cortical microtubules, although microtubules at the nuclear periphery were labeled (see below). Recording of the green and red fluorescence channels separately showed that AtMAP65-1-GFP and AtMAP65-5-GFP were bound to a subset of cortical microtubules (Fig. 2). The abundance of microtubules not labeled with MAP65-1-GFP and MAP65-5-GFP varied from cell to cell and was most obvious in cells with oblique-arranged microtubules (Fig. 2). In cells with predominantly transverse-arranged microtubules, the overlap of both AtMAP65-1-GFP and AtMAP65-5-GFP with the TUA2-RFP fluorescence was the highest (Fig. 2). In these cells we also noticed that the majority of non-MAP65-labeled microtubules were oblique. To have an impression on the suspected preference for coaligned microtubules, we counted the number of clearly oblique versus coaligned microtubules (220 microtubules in 4 different cells). Approximately 30% of the TUA2-RFP-labeled microtubules were oblique, whereas this was only 5% for the AtMAP65-1-GFP-labeled microtubules. The population of the TUA2-RFP-labeled microtubules that was not detected in the green fluorescence channel remained dark even after increasing the detector sensitivity to its maximum, indicating that AtMAP65-1-GFP did not label these microtubules (data not shown). Fully expanded and elongated cells had predominantly transverse microtubules and showed strong colocalization of MAP65-1-GFP and TUA2-RFP, whereas rounded cells often had oblique microtubules with much less overlap. Thus, microtubule association of AtMAP65-1 and AtMAP65-5 shows preference for coaligned microtubules. [[FIGURE]] Some of the AtMAP65-5-GFP microtubules appeared to be resistant to degradation by the microtubule drug oryzalin (Fig. 1). To analyze the drug sensitivity of microtubules labeled with AtMAP65-1-GFP in live cells, BY-2 cultures that coexpressed AtMAP65-1-GFP and TUA2-RFP were treated with amiprophos-methyl and propyzamide. Amiprophos-methyl is a phosphoroamidate with an action similar to that of the closely related oryzalin, a dinitroaniline (CITATION) that binds to plant α-tubulin and affects protofilament interactions (CITATION). Propyzamide, on the other hand, is a benzamide that may have a more subtle effect on microtubule polymerization, as transversely organized microtubules are better protected against its action (CITATION). In the presence of amiprophos-methyl or propyzamide, cortical microtubules of control cells producing TUA2-GFP decayed within 30 min (Fig. 3). By contrast, some microtubules in cells producing AtMAP65-1-GFP remained despite the microtubule drugs. Degradation was apparent in amiprophos-methyl-treated cells, resulting in the accumulation of fluorescent dots (Fig. 3). Propyzamide caused a weaker effect, with most of the microtubules labeled with AtMAP65-1-GFP still intact after 2 h, although the fluorescence intensity was reduced (Fig. 3). Thus, expression of AtMAP65-1-GFP stabilizes and increases drug resistance of microtubules. [[FIGURE]] Upon viewing a number of video recordings of the cortical array from AtMAP65-1-GFP and AtMAP65-5-GFP cells, we noticed that the frequency at which newly formed microtubules coming into the scanned field was lower than that observed in TUA2-GFP and GFP-MBD cells. To have an impression on the dynamics of the cortical array, we measured the abundance of microtubule bundles accumulated in a time frame of 10 min by counting the number of fluorescent tracks that crossed a 20-μm bar placed perpendicular to the long axis of a fully expanded cell. In 26 recordings, an average of 19.4 (sd = 5.6) GFP-MBD-labeled microtubules crossed the 20-μm bar (Fig. 4A). The number of microtubules counted in MAP65-GFP-labeled cells was significantly lower: 16.1 (n = 16; sd = 3.9) in AtMAP65-1-GFP and 16.3 (n = 20; sd = 4.6) in cells producing AtMAP65-5-GFP. An average of 28 microtubules (n = 19; sd = 5.2) crossed a 20-μm bar in cells producing AtEB1a-GFP, suggesting that expression of AtEB1a-GFP stimulated microtubule polymerization dynamics (Fig. 4A). A more detailed observation of the fluorescence tracks in the time-lapse recordings from AtMAP65-1-GFP and AtMAP65-5-GFP BY-2 cells revealed changes in GFP fluorescence in the labeled microtubule bundles, consistent with growth and shrinkage of microtubules alongside the bundle. We digitally linearized a number of fluorescence tracks and plotted these against time in separate kymographs (Fig. 4B). The kymograph shown in Figure 4B1 illustrates a fluorescent track with relatively simple polymerization and depolymerization dynamics of an individual microtubule that lies within an existing microtubule bundle. Polymerization and depolymerization occurred in the two directions within the same microtubule bundle (Fig. 4B2). The kymograph in Figure 4B2 (arrowhead) identifies a position on the microtubule that appears to be a nucleation site from which two microtubules polymerize in opposing directions. Many of the track histories were difficult to interpret because of a relatively high background fluorescence of the microtubule bundle and because each track carried the life history of multiple microtubules (Fig. 4B3). These data indicate high dynamicity of adjacent microtubules within a microtubule bundle. As there were relatively few new fluorescent tracks appearing in our recordings, it is possible that most AtMAP65-1-GFP and AtMAP65-5-GFP-labeled microtubules initiated at positions near or on the cortical microtubules. Microtubule initiation sites occur in association with existing microtubules but can also be independent from microtubules (CITATION). Microtubule nucleation independent from existing microtubules was not found in BY-2 cells producing MAP65-1-GFP and AtMAP65-5-GFP, probably because such sites do not involve polymerization of bundled microtubules. [[FIGURE]] Microtubules labeled with MAP65-1-GFP often carried hot spots of fluorescence that appeared as dots along a weakly fluorescing track. Occasionally dots were also seen in cells producing AtMAP65-5-GFP, but these occurred less frequently. The abundance of the AtMAP65-1-GFP spots varied from cell to cell and they were mostly within or adjacent to microtubule bundles (Fig. 5A, arrowheads), although some were also apparently not connected to labeled microtubules (Fig. 5A, arrow). In 22 time-lapse recordings that we screened for fluorescent spots, none of them was mobile during the course of monitoring (usually 10 min; Fig. 5B), indicating that they were different from the rapidly moving microtubule plus ends or the slow-moving minus ends (CITATION). The absence from dynamic microtubule plus ends was further confirmed in transiently transfected tobacco epidermal cells carrying combinations of the MAP65-GFP and AtEB1a-RFP fusion constructs. The AtMAP65-1-GFP spots that were observed in this experimental setup were not labeled with AtEB1a-RFP (data not shown), and we did not observe microtubule initiation emanating from the spots, so they must be different from the nucleation sites described before (CITATION). Some spots appeared to localize to the end of a microtubule (black arrow, Fig. 5C). The AtMAP65-1-GFP spots also marked microtubule ends that occurred within a bundle (white arrows, Fig. 5C). In several occasions we observed that microtubules polymerizing within a bundle paused at the position of a strongly fluorescent spot and subsequently started to depolymerize (Fig. 5D). Analysis of the fluorescence intensity plots of the microtubule tracks further revealed that AtMAP65-1-GFP label varied along with the red RFP-MBD label over a distance within the same microtubule bundle. Figure 5E illustrates the intensity in AtMAP65-1-GFP (green) and RFP-MBD (red) fluorescence within the same track, recorded over a time period of 10 min. The MAP65-1-GFP (green) and the RFP-MBD (red) signals showed two consecutive reductions in intensity, albeit it was more pronounced for AtMAP65-1-GFP (Fig. 5E). The shifts in fluorescence coincided with the positions where a microtubule joined the bundle as if it was dependent on the density or number of microtubules within the bundle (Fig. 5E, arrows). The increase in green signal from AtMAP65-1-GFP fluorescence corresponded to the relative amplitude of the red signal from RFP-MBD, indicating that they were interrelated. In fact, the trace with the weakest fluorescence signal might correspond to a single microtubule that on its own does not suffice for AtMAP65-1-GFP binding (Fig. 5E). The data suggest that AtMAP65-1-GFP associates with adjacent microtubules and concentrates at stable microtubule ends. [[FIGURE]] The increases and decreases in length of fluorescent tracks occurring in interphase cells over a time period of 10 min were taken as a measure for the rate of polymerization and depolymerization, respectively. Data were collected from microtubules labeled with GFP-MBD, AtEB1a-GFP, AtEB1b-GFP, AtMAP65-1-GFP, and AtMAP65-5-GFP in BY-2 cells that were cultivated and observed under similar experimental conditions. The microtubule shown in Figure 4B1 displayed a polymerization speed of 4.16 μm min−1 and 3.86 μm min−1 in the first and the second events, respectively. The shrinkage rate of the same microtubule in Figure 4B1 was 6.98 μm min−1 and 7.32 μm min−1. These latter values are about one-half of that measured for control markers, suggesting that AtMAP65-5-GFP-labeled microtubules had a reduced depolymerization speed. The catastrophe and rescue events of microtubules growing and shrinking along existing bundles were difficult to measure because of the high background fluorescence from neighboring fibers and because of the complexity of the variations in fluorescence intensity (see above). We therefore determined the dynamicity parameters more accurately from newly appearing microtubule tracks that were not visibly in contact to other microtubules. Polymerization and depolymerization speeds were determined from at least three individual tracks per cell. These values were averaged for n = 13 cells and used to calculate the average speeds (Table I). Figure 6 shows the frequency at which a given average speed was recorded per cell. From Table I, it can be inferred that GFP-MBD microtubules grow at an average speed of 3.9 μm min−1 and shrink at 18 μm min−1 (Table I). Application of ANOVA statistics and Sheffy analysis on the raw data set classified AtMAP65-1-GFP and AtMAP65-5-GFP polymerization rates together with the result from GFP-MBD. Depolymerization rate on the other hand was found to be significantly different (Table I; Fig. 6). Thus, the AtMAP65-1-GFP and AtMAP65-5-GFP depolymerization rate was reduced for microtubules that had newly appeared as well as for those embedded in preexisting bundles. AtEB1a-GFP-labeled microtubules polymerized at an average speed of 5.3 μm min−1. This is significantly faster than tubulin-GFP-labeled microtubules (Table I; CITATION; Dhonuhske and Gadella, 2003; CITATION). The stimulatory effect on polymerization was specific to AtEB1a, as AtEB1b did not display increased growth rates (Table I). Depolymerization rates and transition frequencies could not be analyzed for microtubules labeled with AtEB1a and AtEB1b because these proteins were removed from the microtubule plus end upon catastrophy. Catastrophy and rescue of microtubules labeled with AtMAP65-1-GFP and AtMAP65-5-GFP were calculated from the inverse of the mean time spent in shrinkage and the mean time in growth, respectively (CITATION; Table I). A significant reduction in rescue frequency was evident for microtubules labeled with AtMAP65-1-GFP and AtMAP65-5-GFP compared to GFP-MBD-labeled microtubules. Together, these data indicate that cortical microtubules show distinct dynamic behavior depending on whether they are labeled with GFP-MBD, AtMAP65, or AtEB1. Microtubule instability parameters [[FIGURE]] The presence of a conserved destruction box in several of the MAP65 family members is indicative of the regulation of protein abundance throughout the course of the cell cycle. The tobacco cyclin B1 protein, for example, has been shown to carry a functional destruction box (RXXLXX(L/I)XN) that is essential for its degradation at the onset of anaphase by the 26S proteasome complex (CITATION; CITATION). We found a conserved D box (RSQLGELQN) in the N terminus of the AtMAP65-4 sequence. In addition to posttranslational control, B-type cyclins are also regulated at the transcriptional level (CITATION; CITATION). We therefore decided to analyze the RNA profiles of the AtMAP65 transcripts using publicly available Affymetrix (Santa Clara, CA) microarray data of synchronized Arabidopsis tissue culture cells (CITATION). Figure 7 shows the expression profiles that were retrieved for AtMAP65-1, AtMAP65-4, AtMAP65-5, and CYCB1;4. AtMAP65-4 was coactivated with cycB1;4 at the onset of mitosis, 8 h after release from the aphidicolin block (Fig. 7). AtMAP65-1 showed a moderate increase in expression, peaking at mitosis. By contrast, AtMAP65-5 expression was reduced from S-phase through M-phase. It contains a conserved D-box sequence (RADLQDLRN) at a similar position as AtMAP65-4. Expression of MAP65 is therefore most likely regulated at the transcriptional and posttranslational level. [[FIGURE]] Cortical array microtubules are not decorated by MAP65-4-GFP despite continuous expression driven by the 35S promoter and production of the MAP65-4-GFP protein (data not shown). However, a distinct fluorescence pattern developed during early events of the preprophase (Fig. 8). At that time of the cell division program, the preprophase band is still present and appears as a narrow band at either side of the nucleus in optical confocal sections (Fig. 8, t = 0 min). The preprophase band contains microtubules labeled with TUA2-RFP and was slightly labeled with AtMAP65-4-GFP. Much stronger GFP fluorescence labeling occurred at the perinuclear array where nuclear microtubules start to assemble into a bipolar spindle structure. The AtMAP65-4-GFP protein was unevenly distributed at the periphery of the nucleus very early at the beginning of microtubule organization, when the nuclear envelope is intact and the remains of the degrading PPB are still visible (Fig. 8, t = 7). The two poles of the plant spindle are not focused into a single point like in yeast or metazoan cells but wider and more loosely arranged. AtMAP65-4-GFP was associated with the spindle microtubules and preferentially localized to the spindle poles. The concentration at the poles became more evident as the metaphase progressed into anaphase and chromosomes separated (Fig. 8, t = 46). AtMAP65-4-GFP was not associated with spindle microtubules that connect the two poles (Fig. 8, t = 42, 46). At the end of anaphase, AtMAP65-4-GFP dissociated from the spindle and either disappeared into the cytoplasm or was proteolytically removed. Thus, the primary function of AtMAP65-4 function is restricted to mitosis and more specifically to spindle formation. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! AtMAP65-1, AtMAP65-4, AtMAP65-5, AtEB1a, and AtEB1b were cloned into the GATEWAY entry vector pDONR207 (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA; CITATION). The open reading frames of TUA2, TUA6, and the MDB of MAP4 were amplified by PCR and cloned into pDONR221. For amplification of TUA2 and TUA6, the same set of primers was used. Primers were compatible with the GATEWAY vector and no adaptor sequences were included: TUA2/6-FWD, ATGAGAGAGTGCATTTCGATCCACA; TUA2/6-REV, TTAGTATTCCTCTCCTTCATCATCC; MBD-FWD, TCCCGGCAAGAAGAAGCAAAGG; MBD-REV, TTAACCTCCTGCAGGAAAGTGGCCA. 35S promoter-driven GFP-fusion constructs were generated in the destination vector pK7FWG2 for C-terminal fusions and pH7WGR2 for N-terminal fusions via LR reactions (GATEWAY; CITATION, CITATION). RFP-fusion constructs were made similarly, except that in the destination vector GFP was substituted with RFP. Stable BY-2 transformation was carried out as described (CITATION). Tobacco leaf epidermal cells were transfected as described (CITATION). Fluorescence microscopy was done with a confocal microscope 100M with software package LSM 510 version 3.2 (Zeiss, Jena, Germany), equipped with a 63× water corrected objective (numerical aperture of 1.2) to scan the cell cortex and the middle of dividing BY-2 cells. Dual GFP and RFP fluorescence was imaged in a multichannel setting with 488 nm and 543 nm light for GFP and RFP excitation, respectively. Emission fluorescence was captured in the frame-scanning mode alternating GFP fluorescence via a 500- to 550-nm bandpass emission filter and RFP via a 560-nm cutoff filter. Images were recorded at 3× to 5× digital zoom. Four days after subculture, TUA6-GFP and AtMAP65-5-GFP BY-2 cells were fixed and processed for immunolabeling with anti-α-tubulin monoclonal antibodies (1:3,000; Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR) according to the procedure described in CITATION. For live cell recordings, samples were applied to a chambered cover glass (Lab-Tek, Naperville, IL) and immobilized in a thin layer of 200 μL of BY-2 medium containing vitamins and 1.6% of low-melting-point agar (Invitrogen). Selected cells were imaged before the addition of oryzalin (10 μm final concentration), amiprophos-methyl (10 μm final concentration; Duchefa, Haarlem, The Netherlands), or propyzamide (6 μm final concentration; Chem Service, West Chester, PA). Drugs were added in a volume of 1,000 μL of BY-2 medium with added vitamins and the drug at a concentration adjusted to a final volume of 1,200 μL. Stock solutions of APM (10 mm) and propyzamide (600 μm) were dissolved in dimethylsulfoxide. As control, 1,000× and 100× dimethylsulfoxide dilutions in BY-2 medium were used. Microtubule behavior was monitored in consecutive image stacks taken 30 min and 2 h after drug application. The cell cortex was monitored over the course of 10 min and imaged every 10 s (60 images). The number of fluorescent tracks in these time-lapse recordings (AtMAP65-1, n = 16; AtMAP65-5, n = 20; AtEB1A, n = 19 and GFP-MBD, n = 26) that crossed a straight 20-μm line placed perpendicular to the main axis of the transversely oriented microtubules was counted. Fluorescence intensity of microtubule tracks was measured on single optical sections or flattened Z-stack images averaged for fluorescence intensity (Fig. 4), using the ImageJ software program (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/). Data points were collected from individual microtubule tracks and resliced against time as kymographs. Fluorescence intensity variations in microtubule bundles were plotted as the respective gray value of the EGFP/RFP fluorescence against the position within a track. Cells preincubated for 12 h in chambered cover-glass wells (Lab-Tek) were recorded in solidified BY-2 medium containing 1.6% low-melting-point agar (Invitrogen) at room temperature. Images were taken every 10 s during the course of 10 min. Growth and shrinkage velocities were calculated by dividing the distance covered by the time spent for growth or shortening. Polymerization rates were averaged from at least three individual measurements per cell. A minimum of 49 and a maximum of 120 events were analyzed from 13 up to 20 different cells. ANOVA and Scheffe statistical tests indicated that the average polymerization rates calculated for microtubules labeled with AtMAP65, AtEB1b, and GFP-MBD fell into a single category and that they were significantly distinct from that of the AtEB1a-labeled microtubules. Depolymerization rates were calculated from a minimum of 36 and maximum of 58 individual events. ANOVA and Scheffe tests indicated that the average depolymerization rates of microtubules labeled with AtMAP65-1-GFP and AtMAP65-5-GFP were statistically distinct from those labeled with GFP-MBD. Frequency of catastrophy and rescue (events s−1) were calculated as the inverse of the mean time spent in depolymerization and in polymerization, respectively (CITATION).
