!~ABS~! In diffusely growing plant cells, cortical microtubules play an important role in regulating the direction of cell expansion. Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) spiral2 (spr2) mutant is defective in directional cell elongation and exhibits right-handed helical growth in longitudinally expanding organs such as root, hypocotyl, stem, petiole, and petal. The growth of spr2 roots is more sensitive to microtubule-interacting drugs than is wild-type root growth. The SPR2 gene encodes a plant-specific 94-kD protein containing HEAT-repeat motifs that are implicated in protein-protein interaction. When expressed constitutively, SPR2-green fluorescent protein fusion protein complemented the spr2 mutant phenotype and was localized to cortical microtubules as well as other mitotic microtubule arrays in transgenic plants. Recombinant SPR2 protein directly bound to taxol-stabilized microtubules in vitro. Furthermore, SPR2-specific antibody and mass spectrometry identified a tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) SPR2 homolog in highly purified microtubule-associated protein fractions from tobacco BY-2 cell cultures. These results suggest that SPR2 is a novel microtubule-associated protein and is required for proper microtubule function involved in anisotropic growth.
!~RES~! We have previously isolated spr2-1 in the Landsberg erecta (Ler) background and reported that spr2 is allelic to a classic twisting mutant convoluta (CITATION). Further genetic screening identified two additional alleles, spr2-2 and spr2-3, from ethyl methanesulfonate-mutagenized M2 seedlings of the Columbia ecotype (Col). Because all spr2 alleles showed very similar phenotypes (data not shown), only spr2-1 is shown in Figure 1 . The twisting phenotype of spr2 was most apparent in lateral organs, such as cotyledon, rosette leaf, and petal (Fig. 1, A–C). When the plant is viewed from above, these organs are twisted in a counterclockwise direction. The counterclockwise twisting of rosette leaf and cotyledon was caused by right-handed helical growth of epidermal cell files in petioles (Fig. 1D). Epidermal cell files of hypocotyl and stem in dark-grown plants also formed constitutive right-handed helices (Fig. 1D; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To test whether spr2 is compromised in terms of microtubule function, we examined the effects of microtubule-interacting drugs on the growth of primary roots. When grown on a vertically placed hard agar plate, wild-type roots (Ler ecotype) grew slightly toward the left side of the plate, whereas spr2 roots grew slightly toward the right (Fig. 1E), indicating that the spr2 mutation affected the root as well. When seedlings were grown on a medium containing a low dose of the microtubule-depolymerizing drug oryzalin (0.1 μm) or the microtubule-stabilizing drug taxol (1 μm), growth of wild-type primary roots was inhibited slightly by oryzalin and by 25% by taxol (Fig. 1F). At these drug concentrations, spr2 roots were affected somewhat more strongly than wild-type roots. To substantiate the drug response, we studied the effect of the spr2 mutation in the lefty2 tubulin mutant background (CITATION). The spr2lefty2 double mutant showed left-handed helical growth in all twisting organs where twisting angles were slightly increased compared to lefty2 (Fig. 1F; data not shown), suggesting that lefty2 is epistatic to spr2 and that its helical growth phenotype is slightly enhanced by the spr2 mutation. When spr2lefty2 seedlings were treated with 0.1 μm oryzalin, 1 μm taxol, or 10 nm RH-4032, another potent microtubule-depolymerizing drug (CITATION), the root growth was severely inhibited by more than 70% by oryzalin and taxol and by 50% by RH-4032 (Fig. 1E). At the same drug concentrations, growth of lefty2 primary roots was inhibited by less than 45% by oryzalin and taxol and only by 20% by RH-4032. These results indicate that the spr2 mutation markedly enhanced sensitivities to microtubule-interacting drugs in the lefty2 mutant background. By crossing spr2-1 with wild-type Col, the SPR2 locus had been mapped between molecular markers PG11 and mi123 on chromosome 4 (CITATION). For further genetic mapping, cleaved-amplified polymorphic sequence markers were developed based on sequence information on the bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clones covering this region. By analyzing 2,518 chromosomes, the SPR2 locus was delimited to a 168-kb region containing 44 putative open reading frames (ORFs; Fig. 2A ). We sequenced some of these ORFs and found a 1-bp deletion in At4g27060 from the spr2-1 genomic DNA (Fig. 2B). When 5′-RACE was used to examine the 5′ end of the transcript, we found that the predicted ORF of At4g27060 in the database lacks 38 amino acids at the N terminus. The corrected DNA sequence was deposited in GenBank. [[FIGURE]] The 1-bp deletion in the third exon of At4g27060 in spr2-1 would cause a frameshift in the encoded protein after amino acid 550. Further sequence analysis revealed that the other three spr2 alleles all carried mutations in this gene. In spr2-2, the 5′ exon-intron boundary of the third exon was changed from AG:AT to AA:AT. This change destroys the splicing consensus at the acceptor site. In spr2-3, the C at 1,585 was changed to a T, resulting in the substitution of Glu-528 with a stop codon. We also found a 2-bp deletion in the first exon of At4g27060 in the convoluta allele, which would cause a frameshift after amino acid 76. A line with a T-DNA insertion in the third exon of At4g27060 (designated as spr2-4) was identified in the SALK T-DNA collection and showed a right-handed helical growth phenotype characteristic of spr2 mutants when the T-DNA was present in the homozygous state. These five spr2 alleles showed very similar phenotypes, indicating that these are all null alleles. A full-length cDNA of At4g27060 was assembled, fused to 1.3-kb 5′-flanking and 1.4-kb 3′-flanking genomic regions, and introduced into spr2-2 by an Agrobacterium-mediated transformation method. Thirteen kanamycin-resistant transgenic lines were generated and clear complementation of the spr2 mutant phenotype was confirmed in 11 of them (Fig. 2C). We therefore conclude that At4g27060 is the SPR2 gene. SPR2 is predicted to encode a protein of 864 amino acids with an estimated molecular mass of 94 kD and a pI of 5.47 (Fig. 2B). A BLAST search of databases identified similar proteins of unknown function in Arabidopsis, potato (Solanum tuberosum), and rice (Oryza sativa; Fig. 3A ) and multiple expressed sequence tag sequences in various plants, but no homologous proteins in nonplant organisms. The Arabidopsis protein encoded by At1g50890 and potato HIP2 share the highest similarity to SPR2 over the entire length (48% and 50% identity to SPR2, respectively; Fig. 3A). Potato HIP2 had been isolated as a host protein interacting with a potyviral multifunctional protein helper-component proteinase by a yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) two-hybrid screening (CITATION). Sequence analysis using a repeat-finding method (CITATION) identified repeat motifs in SPR2 and its homologs. Nine repeats are predicted in SPR2, At1g50890, and HIP2 in the regions highly conserved among them (Fig. 3B), and seven of them are clustered in the N-terminal region. The repeat unit consists of 38 to 41 amino acid residues and is composed of two predicted α-helical structures separated by a hinge region (Fig. 3C). Alignment of the SPR2-repeat motifs showed that the SPR2 repeat is characteristic of the HEAT repeat. Canonical HEAT-repeat motifs have seven conserved hydrophobic residues in two α-helices, in which four are often Leu and one is frequently Val (Fig. 3C; CITATION). Although structurally related Armadillo motifs also share these residues, the signature residues for HEAT motifs are Asp right after the first α-helix and Arg/Lys in the N terminus of the second α-helix, which are both conserved in the SPR2-repeat motifs. The HEAT-repeat sequences and their predicted numbers in the four less-related SPR2 homologs (At2g07170, At1g27210, At1g59850, and At5g62580) are divergent from those in SPR2 and At1g50890. [[FIGURE]] The extreme N-terminal region (amino acids 1–37) of SPR2 is rich in Ser and Thr (11 and 6 out of 37 residues, respectively; Fig. 3B). A Ser/Thr-rich N terminus was also found in At1g50890 and HIP2 but not in other homologs. A motif search with the PSORT program (http://psort.nibb.ac.jp) predicted that this N-terminal region is a targeting signal to plastids, but cellular localization studies (see below) demonstrated that SPR2 is not targeted to plastids. We did not detect significant levels of the SPR2 transcript in wild-type plants by RNA gel-blot analysis. The low abundance of SPR2 sequences in the Arabidopsis expressed sequence tags and massively parallel signature sequencing databases (http://www.arabidopsis.org/Blast/ and http://mpss.udel.edu/at) supports that the SPR2 expression level is low in wild-type Arabidopsis plants. Therefore, we carried out a reverse transcription (RT)-PCR analysis using primers specific to SPR2 but not to its homologs in Arabidopsis. SPR2 expression was detected in flower bud, cauline leaf, rosette leaf, inflorescence stem, root, and cotyledon at similar levels (Fig. 4A ), indicating that SPR2 expression is not restricted to any particular organ. [[FIGURE]] Next, we raised an anti-SPR2 polyclonal antibody against an N-terminal region of recombinant SPR2 and used it to detect SPR2 protein in Arabidopsis seedlings (Fig. 4B). The antibody recognized a band of about 90 to 95 kD in wild-type seedlings but not in spr2-2 seedlings, indicating its specificity. In wild-type seedlings, more SPR2 protein was recovered in the microsomal fraction than in the soluble fraction. Since the expression level of SPR2 appears to be low in wild-type plants, we examined the consequences of overexpression for cell morphology and growth. SPR2 was fused to a tandem tag of hemaglutinin and hexa-His at its C terminus and expressed under the transcriptional control of the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter in Arabidopsis plants. When the fusion protein was expressed in spr2-2, the helical mutant phenotype was effectively complemented with the transgene expression (data not shown), indicating that this SPR2 fusion protein is functional in plants. We transformed wild-type Wassilewskija plants with the construct and obtained 18 kanamycin-resistant transgenic lines. Ten lines showed right-handed helical growth characteristic of the spr2 mutant, while the remaining eight lines did not differ from wild-type plants in growth or cell morphology and did not show any twisting phenotypes (Fig. 5A ). Two lines each from the twisting and wild-type growth groups were analyzed further. In both twisting lines, expression levels of SPR2 were severely reduced, probably by cosuppression (Fig. 5B). In contrast, SPR2 expression was considerably increased in the two lines that showed wild-type growth (Fig. 5B). The SPR2 protein level was also highly increased in these lines (see Fig. 4B). These results indicate that SPR2 overexpression does not induce helical growth or other morphological abnormalities. [[FIGURE]] To examine the intracellular localization, SPR2 was fused to GFP at its C terminus and was expressed under the transcriptional control of the CaMV 35S promoter. When expressed in spr2-2, the SPR2-GFP fusion gene rescued the spr2 mutant phenotype (data not shown), suggesting the functional integrity of this fusion protein. Confocal microscopic analysis revealed that SPR2-GFP fluorescence aligned along filamentous structures in the cortical region of leaf epidermal cells (Fig. 6A ). When the epidermal cells were optically sectioned at deeper focal planes, no obvious fluorescent structures were observed in the cytoplasmic regions, but strong fluorescent dots were seen underneath the plasma membrane (Fig. 6B). At high magnification, the cortical filamentous labeling was found in either continuous or linear punctuate patterns (Fig. 6C). In a single cell, both patterns are often present in varying preference to either pattern. Similar filamentous labeling was also observed in leaf trichome (Fig. 6D), epidermal cells of etiolated hypocotyl (Fig. 6E), and epidermal cells of the differentiated region in root (Fig. 6F). [[FIGURE]] The cortical filamentous labeling suggests an association of SPR2-GFP with cortical microtubules. To confirm this, we treated the leaf tissues with the microtubule-destabilizing drug propyzamide (Fig. 6G). This treatment caused the disappearance of filamentous fluorescent patterns, leaving fluorescent foci at the cell cortex. Similar results were obtained with oryzalin (data not shown). In addition to cortical microtubules, SPR2-GFP was also localized to mitotic spindles and phragmoplast microtubules in dividing cells of the transgenic Arabidopsis roots (Fig. 6H). Cortical microtubules, preprophase bands, mitotic spindles, and phragmoplasts were also stained with SPR2-GFP in stably transformed tobacco BY-2 cells (data not shown). To test whether SPR2 directly binds to microtubules, we carried out an in vitro microtubule-cosedimentation assay. Full-length SPR2 was fused at the N terminus with thioredoxin and poly-His tags (TH-SPR2) and was expressed in Escherichia coli. Chromatography and the cleavage of N-terminal tags with a protease resulted in a homogeneous preparation of recombinant SPR2 in a native form (Fig. 7A ). Taxol-stabilized microtubules were prepared from MAP-free tubulins of tobacco BY-2 cells. When the purified SPR2 was centrifuged in the absence of microtubules, the protein remained in the supernatant. However, a significant proportion of SPR2 was recovered in the pellet when it was incubated with an excess of microtubules (Fig. 7B). [[FIGURE]] To determine the stoichiometry and affinity of SPR2 toward microtubules, various amounts of SPR2 were centrifuged with a constant quantity of microtubules, and a binding curve was obtained (Fig. 7C). Recombinant SPR2 bound to microtubules in a concentration-dependent and saturable manner. The binding to microtubules was saturated at a stoichiometry of 0.26 ± 0.02 mol of SPR2 per mole of tubulin dimer if we assume that SPR2 binds uniformly to microtubule side walls. The dissociation constant Kd of SPR2 was determined to be 0.23 ± 0.04 μm. To examine whether endogenous SPR2-like protein is associated with microtubules in plants other than Arabidopsis as well, we searched for the presence of a tobacco SPR2 homolog in purified MAP fractions. Vacuole-free miniprotoplasts were prepared from cultured tobacco BY-2 cells, and microtubules were purified from the protein-rich protoplast extracts through two rounds of microtubule polymerization and depolymerization using taxol (CITATION). The purified fraction was highly enriched with α- and β-tubulins, as well as several copurified proteins (Fig. 8A , left). Mass spectrometric analysis identified three major copurified bands as known tobacco MAPs: TMBP200 (CITATION), MAP-190 (CITATION), and a mixture of MAP-65a and MAP-65c (CITATION; data not shown). Immunoblot analysis showed that a protein of about 90 kD cross-reacted with anti-SPR2 antibody in the microtubule protein fraction but was undetectable in the crude cell extract (Fig. 8A, right), indicating that a tobacco protein immunologically related to SPR2 was copurified with microtubules. [[FIGURE]] To unambiguously identify this SPR2-related protein, tobacco proteins in the purified MAP fraction were further fractionated by anion-exchange chromatography, and eluted fractions were analyzed by general protein staining and immunoblotting. Tobacco SPR2-related protein was eluted right after the MAP-65 and MAP-190 fractions (Fig. 8B) and before the tubulin fractions (data not shown). The amount of this protein appeared to be less than that of MAP-65 or MAP-190. The SPR2-related protein bands in fractions 48 to 50 were excised from the polyacrylamide gel and then subjected to liquid chromatography (LC)-tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) analysis. When the mass spectrum data were used to screen the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) nonredundant protein database, the best fit was found in the amino acid sequence of potato HIP2, a closely related homolog of SPR2. Six peptide sequences matched perfectly with the expected peptide sequences from tryptic digests of HIP2 (Figs. 8C and 3B). Taken together, we conclude that a tobacco SPR2 homolog was copurified with microtubules from tobacco BY-2 cells.
!~MM~! Seedlings of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) were grown on agar plates as described (CITATION) unless otherwise noted. Oryzalin, propyzamide, and taxol (pactitaxel from Taxus brevifilia) were purchased from Wako (Osaka), while RH-4032 [3,5-dichloro-N-(3-chloro-1-ethyl-1-methyl-2-oxopropyl-9-benzamide] was a gift from D.H. Young (Rohm and Haas, Philadelphia). spr2-1 (Ler background) and convoluta (S95 background) alleles had been described (CITATION). spr2-2 and spr2-3 alleles were newly isolated from ethyl methanesulfonate-mutagenized M2 seeds of the Columbia (Col) background (Lehle Seeds, Round Rock, TX). spr2-4 is a T-DNA-tagged allele generated at the Salk Institute Genomic Analysis Laboratory. For allelism tests, the newly isolated spr2-2 and spr2-3 were crossed with spr2-1, and phenotypic complementation was confirmed in the F1 seedlings. The double mutant between spr2-1 and lefty2 was selected in F2 populations according to their molecular lesions, and the F3 plants were used for analysis. For mapping, spr2-1 (Ler) was crossed with a wild-type plant (Col) and selfed to obtain an F2-mapping population. Gross morphology was observed using an Olympus stereoscope SZX12 equipped with a digital camera DP70 or DP10 (Olympus, Tokyo). We used a replica method to observe epidermal cell files by scanning electron microscopy. Molds were made by pressing the tissues into polyvinylsiloxane impression material (Extrude, Kerr, Romulus, MI) and were filled with epoxy glue (Araldite, Ciba-Geigy, Research Triangle Park, NC). After being coated with platinum, the replica images were examined with an S4700 scanning electron microscope (Hitachi, Tokyo). Confocal imaging was performed with a Zeiss Axioplan microscope equipped with a confocal head LSM510 (Zeiss, Jena, Germany) and an argon ion laser. GFP was excited at a 488-nm laser line, and emitted fluorescence was collected through a 525/30 bandpass filter. spr2-1 homozygous seedlings were selected from the F2-mapping population and their DNA was used to map the SPR2 locus using cleaved-amplified polymorphic sequence and simple sequence length polymorphic markers (http://www.arabidopsis.org/aboutcaps.html). Two PCR-based markers were newly designed to detect polymorphisms between Col and Ler near the SPR2 locus. Marker names, primer sequences, restriction enzymes used, and the ecotype cut by the enzyme are as follows: F10M23.1, 5′-CAAGTCTTCAACAGATGATG-3′, 5′-CCACATCTAACCCACTAGAC-3′, no restriction (simple sequence length polymorphic marker); and M4I22.1, 5′-CCGTTCTCTAATTGCATGTC-3′, 5′-AGCATTTTGTTGACCGACTC-3′, MboI, Ler. Candidate genes in the fine-mapped region were amplified from genomic DNA of Ler and spr2-1 by PCR and were directly sequenced to detect mutations. Both ends of SPR2 cDNA were determined using 5′- and 3′-RACE systems (Gibco BRL, Cleveland). Full-length SPR2 cDNA was cloned from Col wild-type seedlings by RT-PCR using the SuperScript First-Strand Synthesis System (Gibco BRL). From BAC clone T24A18, the 5′-flanking region (1,340 bp), and the 3′-flanking region (1,436 bp) of SPR2 were cloned by PCR. The cloned fragments were sequenced to verify that there were no unexpected mutations. For pBI-SPR2, SPR2 cDNA was placed between the 5′- and 3′-flanking regions of SPR2 in pBI 101 (CLONTECH Laboratories, Palo Alto, CA). For pBI-35S-SPR2HH, SPR2 cDNA with a 3′-terminal tag (encoding N-GGLVGGYPYDVPDYAGVEHHHHHH-C) was subcloned immediately downstream of the CaMV 35S promoter in pBI121 (CLONTECH Laboratories). For pBI-SPR2-GFP, SPR2 cDNA was subcloned with a linker (N-GGLVRPPAGRGGGGAT-C) in-frame just upstream of GFP in pTH-2 (CITATION), and the SPR2-GFP portion was excised and placed downstream of the CaMV 35S promoter in pBI121. For bacterial expression, full-length SPR2 and an N-terminal region (amino acids 1–438) of SPR2 were subcloned in pET32b and pET40b (Novagen, Madison, WI) to give pET-SPR2 and pET-SPR2N, respectively. Detailed information on these constructs is available on request. Total RNA was isolated using the RNeasy kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA) and converted to cDNA with the SuperScript First-Strand Synthesis System (Gibco BRL). For semiquantitative RT-PCR, we calibrated the amounts of cDNA templates by comparing the amounts of PCR products from a dilution series of the templates. Aliquots of first-strand cDNA were amplified by PCR for 3 min at 94°C, followed by 30 cycles of 30 s at 94°C, 30 s at 55°C, and 1 min at 72°C, and finally a 10-min incubation at 72°C. The PCR primers were as follows: 5′-TGGTGCAGTCCCTCGTCCAACC-3′ and 5′-GTTCCATTGGAACTCCAAACGT-3′ for SPR2 amplification, and 5′-ATGAAGATTAAGGTCGTGGCA-3′ and 5′-TCCGAGTTTGAAGAGGCTAC-3′ for ACT8 amplification. After separation on agarose gel, the PCR products were blotted on membranes and detected by Southern hybridization using an Alkphos Direct Labeling and Detection System (Amersham Biosciences, Piscataway, NJ). Binary vectors pBI-SPR2, pBI-35S-SPR2HH, and pBI-SPR2-GFP were used to transform Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain MP90 and then introduced into Arabidopsis plants by floral dipping. T1 plants were selected for kanamycin resistance, and the integration of the transgenes into the plant genome was confirmed by PCR. T2 and T3 plants homozygous for the transgene were used for analysis. Suspension cultured tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY-2 cells were maintained at 27°C in a Murashige and Skoog medium containing 3% Suc, 0.2 mg/mL of KH2PO4, 0.1 mg/mL of myoinositol, 1.0 mg/L of thiamine, and 0.9 μm 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. The binary vector pBI-SPR2-GFP was introduced into tobacco BY-2 cells using A. tumefaciens strain LBA4404, essentially as described (CITATION). Kanamycin-resistant calli were transferred to a liquid medium to establish suspension cultures. The bacterial expression vector pET-SPR2 was introduced into Escherichia coli strain BL21(DE3) Codon-Plus (Novagen). Bacteria were grown in Luria-Bertani medium supplemented with 100 mg/L of ampicillin with vigorous shaking at 37°C. When the optical density of the culture at 600 nm reached 0.4, isopropylthio-β-d-galactoside was added at a concentration of 1 mm to induce protein expression and the culture continued for an additional 4 h. Bacteria were harvested and lysed in a phosphate buffer (50 mm NaH2PO4, pH 8.0, and 300 mm NaCl) containing 10 mm imidazole by repeating a freeze/thaw cycle three times followed by sonication. After centrifugation of the lysate, the supernatant was mixed with Ni-NTA agarose matrix (Qiagen) and gently rotated at 4°C for 1 h. After the mixture was loaded on a column, the column was washed with the phosphate buffer containing 20 mm imidazole and bound proteins were subsequently eluted with the phosphate buffer containing 100 mm imidazole. Partially purified protein was treated with enterokinase (Novagen) to remove the N-terminal thioredoxin and poly-His tags and then loaded onto a Mono Q Fast-Flow column (Amersham Biosciences). Proteins were eluted from the column using a linear gradient of NaCl from 0 to 1 m. Fractions containing the recombinant SPR2 protein were desalted and concentrated. Tubulins were prepared from cultured tobacco BY-2 cells as described (CITATION). Purified tubulins (10 μm in terms of the tubulin dimers) were polymerized at 37°C for 20 min in PME buffer (100 mm PIPES, pH 6.9, 0.5 mm MgSO4, 1 mm EGTA, 1 mm GTP, and 20 μm taxol). A constant quantity of taxol-stabilized microtubules (6 μg) was incubated with the recombinant SPR2 protein in PME buffer at 37°C for 15 min. Microtubules were pelleted by centrifugation at 100,000g for 10 min. Proteins in the pellet and the supernatant were separated by SDS-PAGE and stained with Coomassie Brilliant Blue. The gels were scanned with a CanoScan D2400U (Canon, Lake Success, NY) and the intensities of the stained bands were quantified using a BAStation (Fujifilm, Tokyo). The 6×-His-tagged truncated SPR2 (amino acids 1–438) was overexpressed in E. coli strain BL21 (DE3) containing pET-SPR2N, purified through an Ni-NTA agarose column (Qiagen) and a Q-Sepharose Fast Flow column (Amersham Biosciences), and used to produce polyclonal mouse and rabbit antisera. Microsomal and soluble proteins were prepared from Arabidopsis seedlings grown in a liquid medium as described (CITATION). MAPs were purified from tobacco BY-2 miniprotoplasts through two cycles of taxol-dependent polymerization and depolymerization as described (CITATION). The purified tobacco MAPs were further fractionated through a Resource Q column (Amersham Biosciences) that had been equilibrated with 25 mm HEPES, pH 7.5, 1 mm MgCl2, and 1 mm EDTA, and the bound proteins were eluted using a linear gradient of NaCl from 0 to 1 m. Proteins in each elution fraction were separated by SDS-PAGE and transferred onto a Hybond-P membrane (Amersham Biosciences). An anti-SPR2 mouse antiserum was used at a 1:1,000 dilution, and signals were detected using the ECL-plus Western Blotting kit (Amersham Biosciences). Immunoblot analysis of proteins prepared from tobacco BY-2 cells was done using an anti-SPR2 rabbit antiserum at a 1:1,000 dilution. MAP fractions were prepared from tobacco BY-2 cells as described (CITATION). Proteins in the purified tobacco MAP fractions were separated by SDS-PAGE, and the gel portions corresponding to tobacco SPR2 and other prominent bands were excised. After the reduction and alkylation treatments, proteins in the gel slices were digested with 12.5 μg/mL of modified trypsin (Roche, Indianapolis) at 37°C for 16 h as described (CITATION). Digested peptides were extracted with formic acid and acetonitrile. Peptide mixtures were separated and analyzed using a LC MAGIC 2002 (Michrom BioResources, Auburn, CA), which was connected directly to an electrospray ion-trapping tandem mass spectrometer LCQ-Advantage (Thermo Electron, San Jose, CA; CITATION). Mass spectrum data generated by the LC-MS/MS were used to search the NCBI nonredundant protein database with Mascot MS/MS Ion Search software (Matrix Science, Boston). Upon request, all novel materials described in this publication will be made available in a timely manner for noncommercial research purposes, subject to the requisite permission from any third-party owners of all or parts of the material. Obtaining any permissions will be the responsibility of the requester. After this work was submitted, molecular cloning of TOR1, which is allelic to SPR2, was published (Buschmann H, Fabri CO, Hauptmann M, Hutzler P, Laux T, Lloyd CW, Schäffner AR [2004] Helical growth of the Arabidopsis mutant tortifolia1 reveals a plant-specific microtubule-associated protein. Curr Biol 14: 1515–1521).
