!~ABS~! Pollen development, as well as pollen germination and pollen tube growth, requires a highly regulated supply of sugars. In this paper we describe the molecular, kinetic, and physiological characterization of AtSTP11, a new member of the H+/monosaccharide transporter family in Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. Heterologous expression in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) showed that AtSTP11 is a high-affinity (Km=25 μM), broad-spectrum, and uncoupler-sensitive monosaccharide transporter of the plasma membrane. In reverse transcription–polymerase chain reaction analyses we found that AtSTP11 expression is restricted to flowers. Furthermore, AtSTP11-promoter::GFP plants revealed that AtSTP11 expression is only found in pollen tubes. Using a specific antibody we could also detect the AtSTP11 protein exclusively in pollen tubes but not in other flower tissues or in pollen grains of any developmental stage. These results suggest that the newly identified AtSTP11 transporter plays a role in the supply of monosaccharides to growing pollen tubes.
!~RES~! The near completion of the Arabidopsis genome revealed the existence of additional monosaccharide transporter genes that had not been identified in previous screenings (Büttner and Sauer CITATION; Büttner et al. CITATION). One of these genes, AtSTP11, was identified on chromosome 5 (Bac MKD15.13; At5g23270). Computer analysis for splice-site predictions (GENSCAN; NetGene2) and comparison with other AtSTP genes suggested an AtSTP11 open reading frame of 1,608 bp, interrupted by two putative introns. To further investigate AtSTP11, we firstly isolated the full-length cDNA by RT–PCR with total RNA from flowers of different developmental stages. The 1,608-bp fragment was ligated into pGEM-T Easy (Promega), yielding construct pACH112, and the absence of PCR mistakes and the position of the two introns were re-confirmed by comparison with the genomic sequence. The encoded AtSTP11 protein is 514 amino acids long, has a calculated molecular mass of 56.7 kDa and an isoelectric point of 6.36. Furthermore, the AtSTP11 protein sequence has three consensus-sequence motifs for potential N-glycosylation at positions 153 (NQSV), 382 (NLSG) and 430 (NVSV). The alignment shown in Fig. 1 demonstrates the high degree of homology of the AtSTP11 protein to the so far characterized Arabidopsis monosaccharide transporters AtSTP1, AtSTP2, AtSTP3, AtSTP4, AtSTP6 and AtSTP9 (64–82% similarity and 46–71% identity). In addition, the positions of introns are strongly conserved (marked in Fig. 1) with AtSTP3 having introns at positions 1 and 2, AtSTP6 and AtSTP11 at positions 1 and 5 and AtSTP1, AtSTP2, AtSTP4 and AtSTP9 at positions 1, 2 and 5 (Büttner et al. CITATION). The determined AtSTP11 cDNA sequence (GenBank accession number AJ344339) verifies the predicted annotation for the AtSTP11 gene locus At5g23270 on chromosome 5. [[FIGURE]]  To investigate its transport properties we expressed AtSTP11 in the hexose-transport-deficient yeast mutant EBY.VW4000 (Wieczorke et al. CITATION). To this end we cloned the cDNA sequence of AtSTP11 into the yeast expression vector NEV-N (Sauer and Stolz CITATION). As shown in Fig. 2, the yeast strain expressing AtSTP11 in sense orientation (ScAS3E) regained the ability to accumulate [14C]glucose, while expression of the AtSTP11 gene in antisense orientation in this null-mutant background (ScAS4E) did not restore the uptake (Fig. 2). Glucose accumulation was maximal at pH 5.5, which is in agreement with the pH optima determined for the other AtSTPs (data not shown). ScAS3E was further used to determine the substrate specificities of AtSTP11. Like most of the AtSTPs characterized so far (AtSTP1–4, 6), AtSTP11 can transport a broad spectrum of monosaccharides at comparable rates (Fig. 3). Galactose, mannose, xylose and 3-O-methylglucose show 60–80% of the glucose uptake rate, while fructose and ribose are not transported (Fig. 3). The Km of AtSTP11 for glucose was measured to be 25±5.3 μM (Fig. 2, inset) and is similar to the values determined for previously characterized AtSTPs (Sauer et al. CITATION; Truernit et al. CITATION, CITATION; Büttner et al. CITATION). Low concentrations of the proton uncouplers carbonyl cyanide-m-chlorophenylhydrazone and 2,4-dinitrophenol decrease glucose uptake significantly (Fig. 3), confirming that sugar uptake via AtSTP11 is driven by a proton gradient across the plasma membrane. Taken together, heterologous expression in yeast demonstrates that AtSTP11 is an energy-dependent, high-affinity monosaccharide/H+ symporter of the plasma membrane. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  With the exception of AtSTP3, which is found in all green leaves (Büttner et al. CITATION), all of the AtSTP genes characterized so far in Arabidopsis are specifically expressed in ‘sink’ tissues (Sauer et al. CITATION; Truernit et al. CITATION, CITATION; Stadler et al. CITATION). In order to investigate the spatial and developmental expression profile of AtSTP11, we performed RT–PCR with RNA preparations isolated from 5- to 10-day-old seedlings, from leaves, stems and roots of 3- to 6-week-old plants and flowers, and fruits of mature plants. As shown in Fig. 4, even after 40 cycles an AtSTP11-specific PCR product could only be detected (753-bp, confirmed by sequencing) with cDNA from flower tissue. The 839-bp product obtained with cDNA from roots is due to a weak contamination of the RNA preparations with genomic DNA. Since we used primers spanning an intron we could unambiguously distinguish PCR products from genomic DNA and cDNA due to a shift in size (Fig. 4). Furthermore, we verified both PCR products by sequencing. Therefore, this contamination product cannot interfere with the specific detection of the AtSTP11 transcript. The results from the RT–PCR analysis indicate a flower-specific expression of the AtSTP11 gene. [[FIGURE]]  To further examine the AtSTP11 expression in flowers, transgenic Arabidopsis plants were generated, which drive the expression of the GFP-reporter gene under the control of the AtSTP11 promoter. To this end, an NcoI fragment containing 1,493 bp of the AtSTP11 promoter sequence upstream of the start codon was cloned in front of the GFP-reporter gene and introduced into Arabidopsis, resulting in 35 independent BASTA-resistant transformants. Detectable reporter-gene activity was found in 30 of these transgenic lines (86%) in the T1 generation. A representative line is shown in Fig. 5a, where GFP expression under the control of the AtSTP11 promoter was only found in pollen grains shortly before germination and in growing pollen tubes. For better visualization of GFP-reporter expression we performed an in vitro pollen germination assay. Here, the GFP fluorescence was strongly visible and re-confirmed the AtSTP11 promoter activity in germinating pollen grains and elongating pollen tubes (Fig. 5b). [[FIGURE]]  To also detect the AtSTP11 protein in pollen, we raised a specific antibody. Since the C-terminus is the most variable region within the AtSTP protein family (see Fig. 1), we used the last 23 amino acids of the AtSTP11 protein, fused it to the maltose-binding protein and injected a rabbit with the E. coli-expressed fusion protein. The generated antiserum was tested in western blot analyses with yeast extracts, where it specifically recognized a 43-kDa band in ScAS3E (AtSTP11 expression in sense orientation) but not in ScAS4E (AtSTP11 expression in antisense orientation) or in strains expressing the other AtSTP genes in sense orientation (data not shown). For localization studies in Arabidopsis, the antiserum was affinity-purified against the AtSTP11 full-length protein expressed in yeast (ScAS3E). As shown in Fig. 5c,e, AtSTP11 protein is exclusively found in germinating pollen with the strongest signals in the pollen tube. The staining in cross-sections of pollen tubes clearly demonstrates that the AtSTP11 monosaccharide transporter localizes to the plasma membrane and not to internal membranes (Fig. 5c, inset). No AtSTP11 protein was detectable in other flower parts or in any other plant tissue.
!~MM~! Escherichia coli strain DH5α (Hanahan CITATION) was used for cloning. Heterologous expression was performed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain EBY.VW4000 (kindly provided by E. Boles, University of Düsseldorf, Germany). Yeast transformation was as described by Gietz et al. (CITATION). Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. Col-0 (provided by the Nottingham Arabidopsis stock center, Loughborough, UK) was grown in the greenhouse in potting soil or on agar medium in growth chambers under a 16 h light/8 h dark regime at 22°C and 55% relative humidity, as previously described (Truernit and Sauer CITATION). Transformations of Arabidopsis thaliana were performed with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 (Holsters et al. CITATION). A 1,608-bp PCR fragment containing the complete AtSTP11 coding sequence was amplified from a flower-specific cDNA library (generously provided by Elliot Meyerowitz, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA, USA) using primers STP11cs5′ (CTA GGC GGC CGC CTA AAT CCA TGG CAG GAG GGG) and STP11C2 (CTA GGA ATT CCT AAC ATA TCC TTA AAT CCC) ligated into pGEM-T Easy (Promega) and sequenced yielding clone pACH112 (GenBank accession number AJ344339). The AtSTP11 cDNA fragment from pACH112 was ligated into the unique NotI site of the S. cerevisiae/E. coli shuttle vector NEV-N (Sauer and Stolz CITATION), in both sense and antisense orientation, yielding constructs pACH113s and pACH113a, respectively. Both constructs were then used to transform the hexose transporter-deficient S. cerevisiae strain EBY.VW4000 (Wieczorke et al. CITATION), yielding strains ScAS3E (pACH113s) and ScAS4E (pACH113a). Transport tests with transgenic yeasts were performed as described by Sauer and Stadler (CITATION). Total RNA was isolated as described by Schneidereit et al. (CITATION). RT–PCR was performed according to the supplier’s instructions (MBI Fermentas). Briefly, in a 12-μl reaction volume, 5 μg of total RNA and 0.5 μg Oligo (dT)12–18 were heated to 70°C for 10 min and quickly chilled on ice. After addition of 4 μl of 5× First Strand Buffer, 2 μl of 0.1 M DTT and 1 μl of10 mM dNTP-Mix, the mixture was incubated at 42°C for 2 min, 1 μl (200 units) of M-MuLV reverse transcriptase was added and after further incubation for 50 min at 42°C the reaction was heat-inactivated at 70°C for 15 min. The cDNA (0.5 μl) was then used as a template for amplification in a PCR reaction with the primers STP11-N2 (CTA GGA ATT CTTΡAGT CTA AAT CCA TGG CAG GAG GGG) and STP11t3′ (AGC ATC TCC TTA GCC TTT TCT TTG TTT CC) to detect the AtSTP11 transcript or with primers AtACT1-5′ (GCG ATG AAG CTC AAT CCA AAC GAG G) and AtACT1-3′ (GGT CAC GAC CAG CAA GAT CAA GAC G) to detect the actin transcript. A 2,089-bp PCR fragment was amplified from Arabidopsis genomic DNA using primers STP11p5′ (GCC AAG CTT GGA GAA GAA GGG TGT GC) and STP11p3′ (CGG ATC CAA AGA GGA GAC CAC CC). After digestion with NcoI (positions −1494 and −1), the resulting 1,493-bp fragment was ligated into the NcoI-site of the vector pGFP_TYGpA-K (Chiu et al. CITATION) and sequenced, yielding construct pLEX2. A 2,490-bp HindIII/EcoRI fragment containing the AtSTP11 promoter sequence, the GFP cassette and the Nos terminator sequence was cloned into pGPTV-BAR (Becker et al. CITATION), yielding pLEX3. Arabidopsis plants were transformed, by floral dip (Clough and Bent CITATION), with Agrobacterium harboring the construct pLEX3. Transformation of Arabidopsis resulted in 35 independent BASTA-resistant transformants. Reporter-gene activity was studied in all of these plants in the T1 generation. From the 35 generated transgenic lines, 30 lines showed similar GFP-reporter expression, while in 5 lines GFP expression was not visible. For GFP analysis in pollen tubes, in vitro germination of pollen was as described in Stadler et al. (CITATION). Splice-site prediction was performed with the programs GENSCAN (http://genome.dkfz-heidelberg.de/cgi-bin/GENSCAN/genscan.cgi) and NetGene2 (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/NetGene2) using default parameters. Two annealed oligonucleotides coding for the last 23 amino acids of AtSTP11 (plus an additional stop-codon) were ligated into the SacI/HindIII restriction sites of the pMal-c2 vector (New England Biolabs, Schwalbach/Taunus, Germany), resulting in a translational fusion of the maltose-binding protein and the AtSTP11 C-terminus. Expression of this fusion protein in E. coli was induced by addition of 0.3 mM isopropylthiogalactoside (IPTG) for 60 min at 37°C. After separation of E. coli total proteins on preparative polyacrylamide gels, the prominent fusion protein band was excised, eluted from the polyacrylamide gel, lyophilized and used for the immunization of two rabbits (Pineda, Berlin, Germany). Western blots with protein extracts of AtSTP11-expressing yeasts (sense: ScAS3E; antisense: ScAS4E) were performed to test the quality of the antisera (data not shown). For the affinity-purification of the antiserum (500 μl), ScAS3E plasma membrane proteins (400 μg) were blotted onto nitrocellulose and the AtSTP11 protein band was excised as described previously (Sauer and Stadler CITATION). For immunohistochemical analyses, semi-thin sections (2–4 μm) from methacrylate-embedded Arabidopsis flower tissue were incubated with affinity-purified anti-AtSTP11 antiserum and stained with anti-rabbit IgG–fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC) isomer 1 conjugate as described by Stadler et al. (CITATION).
