!~ABS~! Rab GTPases are universal key regulators of intracellular secretory trafficking events. In particular, Rab 5 homologues have been implicated in endocytic events and in the vacuolar pathway. In this study, we investigate the location and function of a member of this family, AtRabF2b (Ara7) in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) leaf epidermal cells using a live cell imaging approach. Fluorescent-tagged AtRabF2b[wt] localized to the prevacuolar compartment and Golgi apparatus, as determined by coexpression studies with fluorescent markers for these compartments. Mutations that impair AtRabF2b function also alter the subcellular location of the GTPase. In addition, coexpression studies of the protein with the vacuole-targeted aleurain-green fluorescent protein (GFP) and rescue experiments with wild-type AtRabF2b indicate that the dominant-negative mutant of AtRabF2b causes the vacuolar marker to be secreted to the apoplast. Our results indicate a clear role of AtRabF2b in the vacuolar trafficking pathway.
!~RES~! As important regulators in membrane traffic, many Rab proteins are known to cycle on and off specific membranes in a nucleotide-dependent manner (CITATION). To investigate the location of AtRabF2b (Ara7), green (GFP) or yellow (YFP) fluorescent protein was fused to the N-terminus of the Rab. To investigate the nucleotide dependency of AtRabF2b, mutations were introduced in functionally important regions responsible for GTP binding and hydrolysis activities. The resulting mutants were analysed for altered location and function. Two to three days after Agrobacterium-mediated transformation, the fusion protein was analysed in vivo in tobacco leaf epidermal cells by confocal microscopy. YFP-AtRabF2b[wt] and YFP-AtRabF2b[S24N] were expressed in punctate, mobile organelles less than 1μm in diameter and also in the cytosol, whereas GFP-AtRabF2b[Q69L] labelled 1-2 μm spherical structures and a membrane close to the periphery of the cell (Fig. 1A-C).   [[FIGURE]] To determine the nature of the GFP-AtRabF2b[wt]-positive punctate structures, which resemble the pattern described for the plant Golgi apparatus (CITATION), GFP-AtRabF2b[wt] was coexpressed with a Golgi marker, ST-YFP (CITATION). GFP-AtRabF2b[wt] labelled two populations of structure, one that colocalized with ST-YFP and one that did not (Fig. 1D,E). This indicates that the AtRabF2b[wt] protein is resident on the Golgi and at least one other organelle. Tagged AtRabF2b[S24N] was created by substituting serine24 for asparagine, within the conserved PM1 (phosphate/magnesium-binding) motif. This protein is predicted to have a higher affinity to GDP, resulting in an inactive form of the protein (CITATION). When expressed transiently in tobacco leaf epidermal cells, GFP-AtRabF2b[S24N] labelled punctate structures and the cytosol (Fig. 1F, green channel). The punctate structures observed completely colocalized with ST-YFP (Fig. 1F, merged image). Tagged AtRabF2b[Q69L] was created by changing glutamine69 to leucine. This mutation, within the conserved PM3 motif, is predicted to have lower intrinsic GTPase activity, therefore promoting the GTP-bound state (CITATION). GFP-AtRabF2b[Q69L] labelled larger spherical structures (1-2 μm in diameter) and a membrane close to the boundaries of the cell (Fig. 1C,G). The spherical structures did not colocalize with ST-YFP, nor did ST-YFP fluorescence accumulate within the spheres (arrow, Fig. 1G). When the YFP-AtRabF2b[Q69L] construct was coexpressed with BobTIP26-1::GFP, previously shown to label the tonoplast (CITATION), the fusion proteins colocalized on the same membrane (arrow, Fig.1H). When BobTIP26-1::GFP was infiltrated alone into tobacco leaf epidermal cells, as expression level increased, spheres similar to those shown in Fig. 1H green channel were observed (data not shown). These structures were not apparent in tobacco protoplasts and BY2 suspension cells singly expressing the BobTIP26-1::GFP construct (CITATION). Additionally, the number of spheres normally observed in cells expressing the tagged AtRabF2b[Q69L] alone, compared to when coexpressed with BobTIP26-1::GFP, appeared to increase [compare Fig. 1C and G (green channel) to H (red channel)]. The absence of labelling of the plasma membrane by the fluorescent mutant was verified upon coexpression with a plasma membrane marker (NtAQP1-XFP, a plasma membrane aquaporin; A.M.K., unpublished results), as tagged-AtRabF2b[Q69L] did not localize with the fluorescent aquaporin (data not shown). A nucleotide-free form of AtRabF2b was created by mutations within the conserved guanine-base-binding motif G2, changing asparagine123 to isoleucine. This mutation reduces the affinity of the protein to both GDP and GTP (CITATION). When expressed in leaf epidermal cells, YFP-AtRabF2b[N123I] was entirely cytosolic (Fig. 1I). Cysteine motif isoprenylation on the variable C-terminus is essential for specific attachment of Rab GTPases to membranes and for their recognition by Rab GDP dissociation inhibitor (GDI) (CITATION). To eliminate the isoprenylation site at the C-terminus of AtRabF2b, the cysteine residues at positions 198 and 199 were mutated to serines. The YFP-AtRabF2b[C198, 199S] was entirely cytosolic (Fig. 1J). These results are consistent with the lack of insertion into membranes because of the absence of a functional isoprenylation motif. Nucleotide-free Rab mutants have been shown to be unstable (CITATION). To investigate the stability of the mutated forms of AtRabF2b and to determine whether the cytosolic labelling pattern of the AtRabF2b[N123I] fusion resulted from loss of its RabF2b moiety, immunoblot analysis of extracts from transformed leaves was performed (Fig. 2A). Equal amounts of protein were loaded in each lane (Fig. 2B) and the amount of epitope recognized by the anti-GFP antibody in the GFP-AtRabF2b[N123I] did not appear to be significantly lower than the GFP-AtRabF2bwt protein and other mutants (Fig. 2, Lane 9). Degradation products were not observed for the wild-type protein or any of the mutants confirming that the fusion proteins were stable (Fig. 2). The prevacuole marker PS1-GFP, was used as a control protein to ensure specific binding of the antibody (Fig. 2, Lanes 12 and 13). The anti-GFP antibody did not recognize epitopes within the untransformed, negative control sample (Fig. 2A, Lane 14).   [[FIGURE]] To investigate the location of YFP-AtRabF2b[wt] punctate structures that are not distributed to the Golgi apparatus, coexpression studies were performed with PS1-GFP, a fusion created from pea BP80. Specifically, PS1-GFP is the fusion protein between GFP and the transmembrane and cytosolic domains of BP80, the pea vacuolar sorting receptor that localizes to the PVC and the trans-Golgi network (TGN) (CITATION). When PS1-GFP was expressed alone, it localized to punctate structures that were mainly distinct from the ST-YFP-labelled Golgi representing the PVC (Fig. 3A). In another study using a very similar marker, BP80-YFP, over 90% of the BP80-YFP expression, which was distinct from the Golgi marker Mannosidase 1, colocalized with VSR antibodies (CITATION). Additionally, immunofluorescence experiments on root tip cells stably expressing the PS1-GFP confirmed that PS1 is located in organelles containing BP80 homologues and that these rarely colocalize with the Golgi (N.P., unpublished results).   [[FIGURE]] To investigate whether the population of YFP-AtRabF2b[wt] that did not distribute to the Golgi apparatus colocalized with PS1-GFP, we coexpressed the two proteins and found that YFP-AtRabF2b[wt] protein is indeed located at the PVC (Fig. 3B). In addition, when these two fusion proteins were expressed together, aggregates containing both proteins were formed (Fig. 3B arrow, F). When PS1-GFP was expressed with YFP-AtRabF2b[Q69L], the fluorescent spheres normally observed in tagged-AtRabF2b[Q69L]-expressing cells disappeared (see Fig. 1C), and were replaced with large fluorescent structures (Fig. 3D). By contrast, when PS1-GFP was coexpressed with either the YFP-AtRabF2b[S24N] or YFP-AtRabF2b[N123I], PS1-GFP was normally distributed (Fig. 3C,E). YFP-AtRabF2b[S24N] colocalized with a subpopulation of PS1-GFP (Fig. 3C,G arrowheads). There was, however, always some PS1-GFP that did not colocalize with YFP-AtRabF2b[S24N] (Fig. 3G, arrows), which may represent the PVC. This indicates that YFP-AtRabF2b[S24N] did not prevent all the PS1-GFP from reaching this compartment. To rule out the possibility that the fluorescent tag attached to the AtRabF2b protein interfered with PS1-GFP, this experiment was repeated using the untagged versions of AtRabF2b. Fluorescent aggregates were also observed in coexpression experiments of PS1-GFP and the untagged AtRabF2b[wt] (Fig. 4A). These aggregates are similar to those seen when PS1-GFP was expressed with untagged AtRabF2b[Q69L] (Fig. 4B). Interestingly, in cells that formed aggregates when coexpressed with the untagged constructs, the aggregates appeared more spherical and mobile than those observed when expressed with the tagged version. Cells transformed with PS1-GFP and untagged forms of AtRabF2b[S24N] and AtRabF2b[N123I] did not form these large accumulations (data not shown).   [[FIGURE]] The localization of AtRabF2b[wt] protein to the PVC, determined by coexpression with PS1-GFP, suggests that AtRabF2b may be involved in the vacuolar trafficking pathway. As tagged AtRabF2b[wt] and tagged AtRabF2b[Q69L] disrupt the normal distribution of the membrane-bound PVC marker, PS1-GFP, we asked whether AtRabF2b and its mutant forms also affect soluble proteins that localize to the PVC. Aleurain (aleu)-GFP has a sequence-specific vacuolar sorting determinant from petunia aleurain and is transported to the lytic vacuole (CITATION). When aleu-GFP was expressed in tobacco leaf epidermal cells, it was only faintly detectable in the vacuole. This is consistent with the known instability of GFP in tobacco leaf vacuoles (CITATION). In addition to faint fluorescence in the vacuole, aleu-GFP also labelled punctate mobile structures (Fig. 5A). Upon coexpression of aleu-GFP with PS1-YFP, we verified that these punctate structures colocalized with the PVC marker (arrow, Fig. 5B). This confirms that aleu-GFP is targeted to the lytic vacuole, via the PS1-GFP-labelled PVC. We therefore used this protein as a marker to analyse the effect of AtRabF2b fluorescent chimaeras on vacuolar trafficking.   [[FIGURE]] To investigate the location and function of AtRabF2b[wt] and mutants in the vacuolar trafficking pathway, the proteins were coexpressed with aleuGFP. When YFP-AtRabF2b[wt] was coexpressed with aleu-GFP the YFP-AtRabF2b[wt] labelled structures colocalized with the aleu-GFP positive PVCs (arrow, Fig. 5C). Faint YFP-AtRabF2b[wt] structures can occasionally be observed (arrowhead, Fig. 5C). The size and distribution of the PVC compartments labelled by aleu-GFP was not affected by the presence of AtRabF2b[wt] protein unlike the PS1-GFP-labelled PVC. When YFP-AtRabF2b[S24N] was coexpressed with aleu-GFP the bright, punctate, aleurain-containing PVCs did not colocalize with the Golgi-localized YFP-AtRabF2b[S24N] (arrow, Fig. 5D). Coexpression of YFP-AtRabF2b[Q69L] with aleu-GFP revealed that many of the spherical compartments labelled by YFP-AtRab[Q69L] accumulated the soluble marker aleu-GFP suggesting that these represent aberrant PVC (Fig. 5E insert). When YFP-AtRabF2b[N123I] was coexpressed with aleu-GFP, the aleu-GFP punctate structures were not affected (Fig. 5F). To investigate the effect of untagged mutant forms of AtRabF2b on the destination of aleu-GFP, images of transformed epidermal cells were taken at low magnification. When expressed alone, aleu-GFP appeared faintly in the vacuole (arrow, Fig. 6A). When untagged AtRabF2b[wt] was expressed with aleu-GFP, there was only a slight alteration in the distribution of the aleu-GFP (Fig. 6B). Many cells still showed faint fluorescence in the vacuoles, with some cells exhibiting fluorescence in the apoplast presumably because of saturation of the vacuolar sorting mechanism. However, the targeting of the aleu-GFP was drastically influenced by the expression of untagged AtRabF2b[S24N]. Rather than a weak fluorescence in the vacuole, aleu-GFP was secreted, resulting in clearly visible fluorescence in the apoplastic space (arrow, Fig. 6C). To exclude the possibility that increased apoplastic fluorescence resulted from alterations of the apoplastic environment, a secretory form of GFP was coexpressed with untagged AtRabF2b[wt] and mutants, but no increase in apoplastic fluorescence was observed (see Fig. S1 in supplementary material). Importantly, the aleu-GFP secretion phenotype induced by AtRabF2b[S24N] was reversed by the coexpression of AtRabF2b[wt] protein along with AtRabF2b[S24N] and aleu-GFP (Fig. 6D). This effect appeared to be specific to the AtRabF2 subclass, as no rescue was observed when a member of a different subclass, the Rab1/Ypt1-related AtRabD2a, was coexpressed with AtRabF2b[S24N] and aleu-GFP (Fig. 6E).   [[FIGURE]] To quantify these results, we counted the number of cells in which at least half the apoplast was visibly decorated with aleu-GFP fluorescence. Data was collected from three independent experiments and cells expressing fluorescent in the apoplast, in eight fields of view per construct, were counted (Fig. 6F). ANOVA indicated that the number of cells with aleu-GFP visible in the apoplast when coexpressed with AtRabF2b[S24N] was significantly different (P<0.05) to the number obtained with aleu-GFP alone, aleu-GFP and AtRabF2b[wt] and when the dominant-negative effect was rescued by coexpression with the AtRabF2b[wt] protein. Fig. 6F also indicates that the rescue of the dominant-negative phenotype by coexpression with wild-type protein was 90% effective. Efficient rescue of the dominant negative phenotype by AtRabF2b[wt], suggests that secretion of aleu-GFP to the apoplast results from loss of AtRabF2b function in these cells. To investigate the effect of the fluorescent tag on the function of the AtRabF2b, low magnification images were taken of YFP-AtRabF2b[wt], YFP-AtRabF2b[S24N] and YFP-AtRabF2b[C198,199S], coexpressed with aleu-GFP (Fig. 7). The addition of the fluorescent protein to AtRabF2b[wt] caused increased secretion of aleu-GFP to the apoplast compared to the untagged version (cf. Fig. 6B and Fig. 7D). YFP-AtRabF2b[S24N] did not appear to cause as much secretion as the untagged version (cf. Fig. 7E and B). Interestingly, when YFP-AtRabF2b[C198,199S], which lacks a functional isoprenylation motif, was expressed with aleu-GFP it did not affect the transport of the aleu-GFP (Fig. 7F) indicating that membrane association or association with an interactor such as RabGDI is essential for tagged AtRabF2b to alter trafficking of aleu-GFP.   [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Standard molecular techniques were used as described (CITATION). The cDNA of wild-type AtRabF2b, was amplified using primers AMK03 5′-GCTCCTGGATCCGGTGGTATGGCTGCAGCTGGAAACAAGAGC-3′ and UN02 3′-CCGGCCGAGCTCCTAAGCACAACACGATGAACTCAC-5′ adding BamHI and SacI restriction sites (underlined), respectively. The resulting PCR product was cloned into pVKH18-En6 (CITATION) with either mGFP5 or EYFP (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA) at the N-terminus of AtRabF2b. Mutations in functionally important regions of AtRabF2b were created using site-directed mutagenesis. The AtRabF2b[S24N] mutant was generated from AtRabF2b with primers 5′-GTTGGTGCTGGAAAAAACAGTCTTGTGTTACGG-3′ and UNO2; AMK03 and 3′-CCGTAACACAAGACTGTTTTTTCCAGCACCAAC-5′. AtRabF2b[Q69L] was generated with the following primers using AtRabF2b as a template 5′-GTGAAGTTTGAGATTTGGGATACTGCAGGTCTCGAACGGTACCATAGTTTG-3′ and UNO2; AMK03 and 3′-CAAACTATGGTACCGTTCGAGACCTGCAGTATCCCAAATCTCAAACTTCAC-5′. The AtRabF2b[N123I] mutation was introduced into AtRabF2b using 5′-GGTAACCCTAATATGGTCATGGCGCTAGCTGGAATCAAATCTGATTTATTAGATG-3′ and UNO2; AMK03 and 3′-ATCTAATAAATCAGATTTGATTCCAGCTAGCGCCATGACCATATTAGGGTTACC-5′. AtRabF2b[C198,199S] was created from AtRabF2b using the primers AMK03 and 3′-CCGGCCGAGCTCCTAAGCAGAAGACGATGAACTCACTGCCCTATC-5′. Untagged versions of AtRabF2b and mutants were generated by PCR from the fluorescent-tagged forms, inserting XbaI at the 5′ region using 5′-CAGGACCTCTAGATGGCTGCAGCTGGAAACAAGAGC-3′ (XbaI site underlined). The resulting PCR product was subcloned into pVKH18-En6 lacking the fluorescent tag. Nicotiana tabacum plants were grown in a greenhouse at 21°C with natural day length illumination. For experimental use, plants were transferred to a plant growth chamber at 21°C with a 12-hour light and 12-hour dark regime. Each construct was mobilized in Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101::pMP90 by freeze-thawing (CITATION) followed by selection on YEB plates containing the appropriate antibiotics. Agrobacterium-mediated transient expression in tobacco leaf epidermal cells was conducted as previously described (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). For expression of each construct alone or in combination, the level of inoculum was adjusted as specified for each experiment (see figure legends). The secreted GFP marker (secGFP), and the Golgi-targeted markers (ST-GFP and its spectral variant ST-YFP), have been previously described (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Aleurain-GFP (CITATION) and BobTIP26-1::GFP (CITATION) were constructed as described. To label the prevacuolar compartment, GFP or YFP was fused to the transmembrane and cytosolic sequence of pea BP80 (CITATION). The construct called PS1 is identical to BP19 described (CITATION) except that all of the cytosolic amino acids are present. BP19 contains the coding sequence of GFP6, which has two mutations F64L and S65T (CITATION), followed by the coding sequence of the transmembrane domain of the peaBP80 (GenBank accession number T18301) (CITATION) and the first five amino acids of the cytosolic region of peaBP80. In BP19, the pea BP80 nucleotide sequence is flanked by a SalI site at the 5′ end and by a SacI site at the 3′ end. A new fragment was made by polymerase chain reaction of peaBP80 sequence to generate a SalI site at amino acids 563 and 564 and a SacI site at the original stop codon position. The SalI-SacI fragment was confirmed by sequencing and inserted into BP19 in place of the truncated version. For the YFP version of PS1, a SalI site was added at the 3′ end of the YFP coding sequence at the same position as GFP and the GFP sequence from PS1 was replaced by the YFP. Finally, both GFP and YFP versions of PS1 were subcloned into the binary vector pVKH18-EN6 into the restriction sites XbaI and SacI. Unless otherwise stated, infected cells of the lower epidermis of transformed leaves were analysed 48-72 hours after inoculation. Confocal imaging was performed using an upright or inverted Zeiss LSM 510 Laser Scanning Microscope (Jena, Germany) with a 40×, N.A. 1.30, oil-immersion lens. For multi-track imaging, GFP was excited with a 458 nm wavelength of an argon line; the emission was collected using a 505-530 nm band pass filter and EYFP was excited with a 514 nm wavelength of an argon line; the emission was collected using a 535-590 nm band pass filter. Fluorescence quantification was done from low magnification 12 bits images (acquired using a 10× lens) using LSM 510 software. Post-acquisition processing of images was done using the Zeiss LSM 510 software (Jena, Germany) and Adobe Photoshop 7.0 (Mountain View, CA) software. Proteins were extracted from tobacco leaves transiently expressing fluorescent protein-tagged AtRabF2b fusions, and gel electrophoresis and blotting was carried out as described (CITATION). The blot was probed with a polyclonal antibody raised against GFP (1:2000 dilution, Molecular Probes, Leiden, The Netherlands) followed by an alkaline phosphatase-conjugated secondary antibody (1:1000 dilution, DAKO, Denmark). The results were determined with the BCIP/NBT colour development substrate (Promega, UK) according to the manufacturer's recommendations.
