!~ABS~!  A family of Golgi-localised molecules was recently described in animals and fungi possessing extensive coiled regions and a short (~40 residues) conserved C-terminal domain, called the GRIP domain, which is responsible for their location to this organelle. Using the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana, we identified a gene (AtGRIP) encoding a putative GRIP protein. We demonstrated that the C-terminal domain from AtGRIP functions as a Golgi-targeting sequence in plant cells. Localisation studies in living cells expressing the AtGRIP fused to a DsRed2 fluorescent probe, showed extensive co-location with the Golgi marker α-mannosidase I in transformed tobacco protoplasts. GRIP-like sequences were also found in genomic databases of rice, maize, wheat and alfalfa, suggesting that this domain may be a useful Golgi marker for immunolocalisation studies. Despite low sequence identity amongst GRIP domains, the plant GRIP sequence was able to target to the Golgi of mammalian cells. Taken together, these data indicate that GRIP domain proteins might be implicated in a targeting mechanism that is conserved amongst eukaryotes.
!~RES~! Blastn searches (Gish and States CITATION) of Arabidopsis genomic and expressed sequence tag sequences in GenBank with the C-terminal GRIP domain of the human protein p230/golgin-245 (GenBank accession NP_002069) identified a cDNA sequence (GenBank accession AF424555), whose predicted amino acid sequence was 23% identical and 44% similar to that of p230/golgin-245 over the 42 amino acid positions predicted to comprise the GRIP domain (Fig. 1b). Whilst these values are not high, the putative GRIP domain also contained a universally conserved tyrosine residue (Y717) characteristic of this Golgi-targeting sequence (Fig. 1b). We called the putative Arabidopsis GRIP protein AtGRIP. However, the 5′ of the cDNA was missing from the truncated expressed sequence tag AF424555. Overlapping the AF424555 was a putative cDNA sequence BAB10408.1, derived from genomic DNA sequence by gene prediction software (see GenBank entry for details). Due to the incorrect prediction of an exon/intron boundary, BAB10408.1 did not contain a GRIP domain, but it appeared the putative cDNA might contain the entire 5′ region of AtGRIP since its corresponding amino acid sequence contained extensive coiled-coil domains. This was confirmed by generating a complete 2,367-bp cDNA for AtGRIP (GenBank accession AF499634), by reverse transcriptase PCR. The putative start codon of AtGRIP was identified based on the absence of an open reading frame in the upstream DNA sequence. AtGRIP encodes a protein of 788 amino acids with a predicted molecular mass of 89.8 kDa and the GRIP domain at the C-terminus (Fig. 1a,c). The N-terminal region of AtGRIP was predicted by the program COILS (http://searchlauncher.bcm.tmc.edu:9331/seq-search/struc-predict.html) to contain extensive coiled-coil regions (Fig. 1a,c). These regions comprise about 80% of AtGRIP, similar to the GRIP proteins of animals and fungi (Kjer-Nielsen et al. CITATION). The function of these coiled-coil regions is unknown but, due to their ability to facilitate oligomerization, it is expected they may form a molecular scaffold by interacting with themselves and with other proteins (Lupas CITATION). Several short regions within the AtGRIP sequence, including the N-terminal-most 35 amino acids, are not predicted to form coiled-coils (Fig. 1a). Similar short, non-coiled regions are also present in other GRIP proteins, but their functional significance is unknown (Kjer-Nielsen et al. CITATION). Using the GRIP domain of AtGRIP (Y717-S788, Fig. 1c) to search GenBank, we found proteins with GRIP-like sequences in rice and maize (Fig. 1b). GRIP-like sequences were also identified from wheat and alfalfa (data not shown), indicating that proteins bearing this domain are conserved in plants. Partial sequences for the N-terminal regions of the plant GRIP proteins could only be found for maize and, as anticipated, formed coiled-coils. Whereas plants, fungi and some protists (e.g. Trypanosoma sp.; McConville et al. CITATION) also appear to encode only one GRIP protein, animals contain several (mammals have four, Drosophila four, Caenorhabditis three). Without understanding the exact function(s) of GRIP proteins, it is not possible to explain why animals possess more than one GRIP gene. We speculate that cell secretion in different tissue types, differential Golgi transport to polarised cell surfaces and regulated secretion may require multiple members of the GRIP protein family within animal tissues. To confirm that the GRIP-like domain of AtGRIP was necessary and sufficient for targeting to the Golgi apparatus of plant cells, we fused the coding sequence of the last 77 amino acids of AtGRIP to the 3′ end of GFP and transformed this construct into suspension-cultured cells of N. plumbaginifolia. Small GFP-labelled structures were observed throughout the cytoplasm and particularly concentrated in the perinuclear region of the cell (Fig. 2a). This labelling pattern is similar to previously published staining patterns of the Golgi apparatus in tobacco cells (Essl et al. CITATION; Fitchette et al. CITATION; Nebenführ et al. CITATION). Therefore, it is likely that GFP-AtGRIP is located to the plant Golgi apparatus. Furthermore, we performed immunofluorescence on non-transformed tobacco cells, using an anti-Lewis antigen antibody previously validated as a plant Golgi marker (Fitchette et al. CITATION). Anti-Lewis antigen antibodies labelled punctate structures in tobacco cells that were strikingly similar to those labelled with the GFP-AtGRIP fusion protein (data not shown). [[FIGURE]]  To obtain further evidence for the Golgi location of AtGRIP, we used a tobacco Bright Yellow 2 protoplast transformation system for the transient expression of an AtGRIP polypeptide fused to the 3′ of DsRed2 (DsRed-AtGRIP). As a marker for the Golgi apparatus, we used α-ManI-GFP (Nebenführ et al. CITATION). Protoplasts transformed with DsRed-AtGRIP displayed a punctate intracellular staining pattern, which was very similar to the pattern observed in protoplasts transformed with α-ManI-GFP (Fig. 2b). In contrast and as expected, tobacco cells transformed with the H+ATPase-GFP construct resulted in the labelling of the plasma membrane, which strongly indicates that the targeting of AtGRIP to intracellular structures is specific (Fig. 2b). Co-transformation experiments were also performed with DsRed-AtGRIP and α-ManI-GFP. Extensive co-location of DsRed-AtGRIP with the Golgi marker α-ManI-GFP was observed (Fig. 2c). The punctate-labelled structures were similar in appearance to those observed in protoplasts transformed with the individual constructs (compare Fig. 2b,c). This result confirms the location of AtGRIP to the Golgi apparatus. Interestingly, although DsRed-AtGRIP and α-ManI-GFP appear to be located on the same structures, they do not show complete co-location; and regions of non-overlapping GFP fluorescence and DsRed2 fluorescence were detected on the periphery of the labelled structures (Fig. 2c). This observation indicates that the AtGRIP protein may be located to a more distal Golgi compartment than the cis-Golgi-located α-Man I marker. Indeed, mammalian GRIP domains have been shown to specifically target the membranes of the TGN (Brown et al. CITATION; Luke et al. CITATION). It has previously been shown that GRIP domains are functionally conserved from yeast to mammals (Munro and Nichols CITATION). Therefore, we examined whether the putative Arabidopsis GRIP domain could function as a Golgi-targeting sequence in mammalian cells. A chimeric cDNA encoding amino acids A695 to S788 (Fig. 1c) of the Arabidopsis GRIP protein fused to the 3′ end of eGFP (GFP-AtGRIP94) was transiently expressed in COS cells. The GFP-AtGRIP94 fusion protein was weakly targeted to the Golgi of transfected COS cells (data not shown). As the sequences flanking GRIP domains have been shown to increase the efficiency with which GFP fusions are targeted to the Golgi apparatus (Kjer-Nielsen et al. CITATION), we generated another construct containing the C-terminal 211 amino acids (E578 to S788; Fig. 1c) fused to GFP. This 49-kDa GFP-AtGRIP211 protein was located to the perinuclear region of transfected COS cells, consistent with a Golgi location (Fig. 3). The intracellular location of GFP-AtGRIP211 was very similar to the location of GFP-p230GRIP (Fig. 3), which has been shown to target to TGN membranes (Brown et al. CITATION). The reason that GFP-AtGRIP211 is a better Golgi-targeting molecule in animal cells than GFP-AtGRIP94 is probably due to the presence of the coiled-coil regions. Transfection of COS cells with wild-type GFP resulted, as expected, in a dispersed cytosolic fluorescence (Fig. 3). [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis GRIP protein cDNA was amplified in four overlapping fragments by reverse transcriptase PCR, using 1 µg of total Arabidopsis RNA with Superscript II (Gibco-BRL). Oligonucleotides were designed to regions of Arabidopsis DNA predicted to comprise the exons of the GRIP gene. All PCR products were sequenced to obtain the complete coding sequence of the GRIP protein. PCR primer sequences and PCR conditions are available upon request. The coding sequence of a GFP optimised for expression in plants (Davis and Vierstra CITATION) was amplified by two PCR primers containing BamHI (5′) and SpeI (3′) restriction sites, respectively. The C-terminal region of the Arabidopsis GRIP protein, corresponding to amino acids G712 to S788, was amplified by two PCR primers containing SpeI (5′) and SacI (3′) sites, respectively. Each PCR product was digested with its corresponding enzymes and ligated into the BamHI and SacI sites of pBI121 (Clonetech) to generate pGFP-AtGRIP, in which GFP was fused in-frame and N-terminal to the Arabidopsis GRIP domain. The sequences of the PCR primers used to produce these constructs are available upon request. pGFP-AtGRIP was then transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA4404 and the bacteria were used to transform Nicotiana plumbaginifolia suspension-cultured cells growing in Murashige and Skoog medium (M0404; Sigma), as per Mathur et al. (CITATION). Immunofluorescence of plant cells with the anti-Lewis antigen antibody, a kind gift from Dr. Fitchette, (Université de Rouen), was performed as per Fitchette et al. (CITATION). A DsRed2-AtGRIP fusion construct was generated by PCR, using primers to amplify the C-terminal region of the AtGRIP sequence corresponding to residues G712 to S788. The PCR product contained SalI (5′) and BamHI (3′) restriction sites for directional cloning into a pGD vector (Goodin et al. CITATION) which contained a DsRed element originally isolated from the coral Discosoma sp. (Matz et al. CITATION). A Glycine max α-mannosidase I (α-ManI)-GFP fusion protein, kindly provided by Dr. Andrew Staehelin (University of Colorado, Boulder), was used as a Golgi marker (Nebenführ et al. CITATION). Also, a H+ATPase-GFP fusion protein, kindly provided by Dr. Inhwan Hwang (Pohang University of Science and Technology), was used as a marker for the plasma membrane (Kim et al. CITATION). Constructs were introduced into tobacco protoplasts, prepared from a Bright Yellow 2 suspension-cultured cell line, by polyethylene glycol-mediated transformation using a protocol modified from Sheen (CITATION). Briefly, cells (10 g) from 4-day-old Bright Yellow 2 cultures were filtered through Miracloth and incubated with 25 ml of enzyme solution [1.5% Cellulase R-10, 0.4% Macerozyme R-10, 400 mM mannitol, 20 mM KCl, 10 mM CaCl2, 20 mM 2-(N-morpholino)ethanesulfonic acid (MES) (KOH), pH 5.7] at 23 °C for 3.5 h with gentle agitation (50 rpm). After incubation, the protoplast suspension was filtered through Nylon mesh (50 μm) and protoplasts were collected by centrifugation at 50 g for 3 min. The pelleted protoplasts were resuspended in ice-cold W5 buffer [154 mM NaCl, 125 mM CaCl2, 5 mM KCl, 2 mM MES (KOH), pH 5.7] and washed twice. After the second wash, the protoplasts were incubated on ice in W5 buffer for 30 min. For DNA transformation, protoplasts were collected by centrifugation at 50 g for 3 min and resuspended in 400 mM mannitol, 15 mM MgCl2, 4 mM MES (KOH), pH 5.7, at a density of 5×106 cells/ml. DNA (20–40 μg total) was added to 200 μl of protoplast suspension followed by 220 μl of polyethylene glycol solution (800 mM mannitol, 100 mM CaCl2, 40% polyethylene glycol 4000). The cells were mixed gently and incubated at 23 °C for 30 min and the mixture then diluted with 1 ml of W5 buffer. Protoplasts were recovered by centrifugation at 50 g for 2 min, resuspended in 1 ml of W5 buffer and incubated in microplates at 23 °C in the dark. PCR products encoding the C-terminal-most 94 or 211 amino acids of AtGRIP were inserted into peGFP (Clontech) to encode eGFP-AtGRIP94 and eGFP-AtGRIP211 fusion proteins, respectively. Cloning details and PCR primer sequences are available upon request. Transient expression in COS cells was performed using FuGENE transfection reagent (Boehringer Mannheim; Brown et al. CITATION). Confocal microscopy was performed either using a Bio-Rad 1024 confocal imaging system or a Leica true confocal scanner. Laser scanning was performed in separate channels to avoid bleed-through. Excitation and emission wavelengths were 488 nm and 505–550 nm for GFP and 543 nm and 570 nm for DsRed2. Images were processed using Adobe Photoshop ver. 5.0.2 (Adobe Systems, San Jose, CA).
