!~ABS~! We have previously reported that TIP, an Arabidopsis protein, interacts with the coat protein (CP) of Turnip crinkle virus (TCV) in yeast cells and that this interaction correlated with the resistance response in the TCV-resistant Arabidopsis ecotype Dijon-17. TIP was also able to activate transcription of reporter genes in yeast cells, suggesting that it is likely a transcription factor. We have now verified the physical interaction between TIP and TCV CP in vitro and showed that CP mutants unable to interact with TIP in yeast cells bind TIP with much lower affinity in vitro. Secondly, we have performed gel shift experiments demonstrating that TIP does not bind to DNA in a sequence-specific manner. The subcellular localization of TIP was also investigated by transiently expressing green fluorescence protein (GFP)-tagged TIP in Nicotiana benthamiana plant cells, which showed that GFP-tagged TIP localizes primarily to nuclei. Significantly, co-expression of TCVCP and GFP-TIP prevented the nuclear localization of TIP. Together, these results suggest that TIP might be a transcription factor involved in regulating the defense response of Arabidopsis to TCV and that its normal role is compromised by interaction with the invading viral CP.
!~RES~! We have previously shown that TCV CP interacts with TIP in yeast cells and that the TIP-interacting region in the CP mapped to the N-terminal 25 amino acids (AA) of its RNA-binding domain (R domain). We further demonstrated in that study ( CITATION ) that five CP mutants containing single amino acid (AA) changes within the R domain (N3A, D4N, P5A, R6A, and D13A) lost the interaction with TIP in yeast cells and viruses containing these five mutations also lost the ability to trigger the resistance response in A. thaliana ecotype Dijon-17. Conversely, the one CP mutant (G14A) that retained the ability to interact with TIP also retained the ability to trigger the resistance when incorporated back into the virus ( CITATION ). These results suggested that the CP–TIP interaction is correlated with the ability of CP to elicit the resistance response. To confirm this correlation, we felt it important to assess the binding ability of wild-type and mutant CP with TIP in vitro. To demonstrate the interaction in vitro, we produced a fusion protein in which TIP was fused to the C-terminus of glutathione-S-transferase (GST-TIP, see CITATION ). Wild-type and mutant CPs were then radiolabeled ( 35 S) through in vitro translation. The GST-TIP was first immobilized on glutathione-sepharose beads, followed by the addition of the 35 S-labelled TCV CP or mutant CP. After extensive washing to remove the unbound radioactivity, the beads were subjected to SDS-PAGE analysis to reveal any CP derivatives bound to GST-TIP. The GST protein was also produced and included in every experiment as a negative control. We first tested the in vitro binding between TIP and full-length TCV CP. As shown in CITATION A , lanes 1–3, GST-TIP retained a significant portion of 35 S-labeled TCV CP. As expected, the GST control did not. An equivalent amount of the in vitro-translated CP was loaded on the gel for comparison (lane 1, unprecipitated). Note here that the lane with in vitro-translated TCV CP (lane 1) contained multiple smaller bands that are likely degradation products. However, only the full-length CP was bound to GST-TIP (lane 3). We then tested portions of the R domain for their ability to bind to GST-TIP, including the entire R domain (R), the N-terminal half of the R domain (RN, 25 AA), and the remaining portion of the R domain (RC, 27 AA). The results show that the R domain alone was able to bind efficiently to GST-TIP ( CITATION A, lane 12). It was also evident that the N-terminal 25 AA region bound more weakly than the entire R domain (lane 6) and that the C-terminal portion of R domain bound poorly if at all (lane 9). These results correlated well with previous data derived from yeast two-hybrid assays. In this initial experiment, we also included the R domain of one of the resistance-breaking CP mutants (N3A) that was no longer able to interact with TIP in yeast cells. It displayed a markedly reduced TIP-binding ability compared to the wild-type R domain (compare lanes 12 and 15). We further examined additional single AA substitution mutants within the N terminus of CP and the results are shown in CITATION B. Among these mutants, all except R8A and F10A were reported previously ( CITATION ). The R8A and F10A mutants behaved similarly to the other resistance breaking R domain mutants in that they were unable to interact with TIP in yeast cells and they could infect Di-17 plants systemically (unpublished data). It is clear from these results that for each of the resistance breaking CP mutants, their corresponding R domains bound to TIP significantly more weakly than did the wild-type R domain. Only the G14A mutant, which interacted with TIP in yeast cells and elicited a resistance response in Di-17, bound to TIP with similar affinity as the wild-type R domain. We conclude from these data that there is a strong positive correlation between CP–TIP interaction in yeast cells and the degree of physical binding in vitro. Clearly, the inability of most of CP mutants to interact with TIP in yeast cells was reflected as lower binding affinity in vitro. To quantitatively evaluate the difference in binding affinity between various CP mutants and wild-type CP, the binding experiments were repeated four times using the R domains of wild-type CP and three representative mutants (R6A, R8A, and G14A). The X-ray films were then scanned using a densitometer and the relative amount of mutant R domains bound to GST-TIP was determined by comparing with the wild-type CP R domain bound (100%). The results presented in CITATION C demonstrate that the wild-type R domain and G14A displayed 5-fold higher TIP-binding capacity than the R6A and R8A mutants. Together, the data presented in this section validate the physical interaction between TIP and TCV CP and confirm the requirement of an intact wild-type R domain for this interaction. We next wanted to map the functional domains of TIP in an effort to elucidate its role in the plant resistance pathway targeting TCV. We learned previously that TIP had two primary activities: interaction with TCV CP and activation of reporter gene transcription in yeast cells ( CITATION ). To delineate the region housing the transcriptional activation domain, regions of the TIP gene were fused to the GAL4 DNA-binding domain (DBD) of the yeast shuttle vector pAS2-1 and assayed for their ability to activate the LacZ reporter gene in a yeast one-hybrid assay. These same regions of the TIP gene were also fused to the GAL4 activation domain (AD) of pGAD10 to determine the region of TIP responsible for interacting with CP in a yeast two-hybrid assay. The results of these experiments are summarized in CITATION . The ability of TIP to activate transcription was retained in the N-terminal 268 AA region, but not when it was further shortened to the N-terminal 180 AA. Conversely, deletion of as little as 50 AA from the N-terminus abolished the transcriptional activation of TIP. These data mapped the transcriptional activator activity to the N-terminal 268 AA portion. In contrast, the CP-binding domain of TIP appeared to map exclusively to the C-terminal 100 AA residues. This is based on the observation that all of the C-terminal deletions failed to interact with the CP and the fact that this region alone was sufficient for CP interaction. The fact that TIP activated transcription of the reporter gene in yeast cells prompted the speculation that TIP was likely a transcription factor. Indeed, several other NAC proteins have been shown to be transcriptional activators ( CITATION ). Arabidopsis proteins NAC1 and AtNAM, like other known transcription factors, were also shown to bind DNA. Here we report the results of in vitro DNA–protein binding experiments in an effort to determine the nature of any TIP DNA-binding properties. For these experiments, we used the N-terminal 268 AA portion of TIP (N-268) that we showed in the previous section was responsible for the transcriptional activation activity. Moreover, the DNA-binding activity of both NAC1 and AtNAM has been previously mapped to the N-terminal conserved NAC domain ( CITATION ). The purified His-tagged N-268 was mixed with a PCR-generated, 32 P-labelled DNA fragment of 68 bp that contained 20 random nucleotides flanked by restriction enzyme digestion sites ( Bam HI and Hin dIII). The results of a typical binding experiment are shown in CITATION A . Note that TIP was able to bind to and retard the mobility of DNA fragments to discreetly shifted bands in lanes 1 and 2 (marked by arrows, also in lane 6), which likely represents homodimerization of TIP. To determine if this binding was specific for a sequence motif, the individual shifted bands were excised, recovered, amplified by PCR, and subjected to a second cycle of binding with the N-268 peptide. This process of binding assays was repeated for several cycles in an effort to enrich for potential DNA fragments with specific TIP-binding sequences. Lanes 4–6 in CITATION A show the result of a third cycle of binding assays. A comparison of the results of the first (lane 2) and third cycle (lane 6) failed to reveal any significant quantitative difference in the amount of bound DNA. This indicated that the process did not lead to enrichment of DNA fragments that bound to TIP preferentially. We conclude from these results that TIP does not bind DNA in a sequence-specific manner. This conclusion was further supported in the assays using poly(dI dC) as a competitor in the third round of binding experiments ( CITATION B). It is evident that increasing the amount of poly(dI dC) reduced the binding of TIP to the labeled DNA proportionally ( CITATION B, lanes 2–6). Although these experiments establish that the truncated form of TIP binds to DNA nonspecifically, we cannot be sure from these experiments if the level of binding was significant. Moreover, we cannot completely rule out the possibility that full-length TIP, which was not used in these assays, might bind DNA more specifically. An additional characteristic of transcription factors is that they localize to the nucleus of the cell. Having shown that TIP activates transcription in yeast cells, we next wanted to test if TIP would localize to the nuclei of plant cells. Initial examination of the TIP sequence identified a region that could potentially form two overlapping putative nuclear localization signals (NLSs) of a bipartite nature ( CITATION A ), which is typical for NLSs of plant origin ( CITATION ). To experimentally demonstrate the nuclear localization of TIP, we utilized agro-infiltration to deliver green fluorescence protein (GFP)-tagged TIP (GFP-Ala 10 -TIP, see CITATION for details about the constructs used) into the cells of N. benthamiana plants. The infiltrated leaves were collected 2 days after infiltration and directly observed by confocal microscopy ( CITATION B). The distribution of green fluorescence throughout the cytoplasm was as expected for the control GFP-Ala 10 protein (panel 1). As anticipated, the GFP-Ala 10 -TIP fusion protein primarily localized to the nuclei of cells (panel 2). These results were also confirmed by fluorescent microscopy ( CITATION C, top panels). We conclude from these results that TIP localizes to the cell nucleus, further supporting the notion that TIP is a transcription factor. We next wanted to determine if TCV CP expression in plant cells might alter the cellular localization of TIP. To do this, we delivered the construct designed to express the GFP-tagged TIP (GFP-Ala 10 -TIP) into cells of N. benthamiana leaves together with constructs encoding each of the following proteins: TCV CP, the CP mutant R6A, and the CP of a related virus Tomato bushy stunt virus (TBSV). The result shown in panels 3 and 4 of CITATION B is particularly interesting. While co-expression of GFP-Ala 10 and TCV CP did not visibly change the GFP distribution in the cell (panel 3), co-expression of TCV CP and GFP-tagged TIP resulted in the formation of inclusion-like structures in the cytoplasm that appeared to be around the periphery of the nuclei. Importantly, the CP R6A mutant protein with reduced TIP binding ability failed to interrupt TIP nuclear localization (panel 5). This result confirmed that there was a direct correlation between the ability of TIP and CP to interact and interference with proper cellular localization of TIP. The control protein TBSV CP also did not change the cellular localization of TIP (panel 6) . To further confirm that the inclusion-like structures seen in panel 4 were peripheral to the nuclei, we did a separate set of experiments in which the nuclei of infiltrated cells were stained with 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI), a DNA-staining reagent, and examined by standard fluorescence microscopy. The results presented in CITATION C clearly show that the GFP-tagged TIP in the presence of wild-type TCV CP was localized in inclusion-like structures in areas surrounding the nucleus rather than in the nucleus proper ( CITATION C, middle panels). The colocalization of DAPI and GFP (bottom panels) confirmed that the R6A mutant protein was not able to prevent the nuclear localization of TIP. These results suggest that the TCV CP interacts with TIP in plant cells and effectively prevents the localization of this transcription factor into the nucleus.
!~MM~! In vitro protein binding assays were performed using glutathione-S-transferase (GST) fusion protein of TIP (GST-TIP) and in vitro-translated CP derivatives. To produce GST-TIP, the TIP cDNA was cloned into vector pGEX-4T-1 to make the construct pGEX-4T-1-TIP, which was transformed into Escherichia coli strain BL21. The GST-TIP fusion protein was then purified from BL21 using Glutathione Sepharose 4B matrix, following the manufacturer's specifications (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech, Uppsala, Sweden), except that 50 μM instead of 500 μM of isopropyl-β- d -thiogalactoside (IPTG) was used to induce the expression of the GST fusion protein. The radioactively labeled proteins (TCV CP, the RNA-binding domain [R domain] of CP and its mutants) were produced by cloning the respective cDNAs into pBluescript II SK between Eco RI and Pst I sites, followed by linearization of the derived plasmids with Xba I, and coupled transcription and translation in the presence of [ 35 S] methionine using the TNT-coupled wheat germ extract system (Promega, Wisconsin, MI). Translation products were analyzed by 10% SDS-polyacrylamide gel followed by autoradiography. The in vitro protein binding experiments were carried out as described by CITATION . Twenty microliters of Sepharose beads with GST-TIP attached was incubated with 25 μl of in vitro translation mixture in a total volume of 300 μl of binding buffer (50 mM Tris–HCl, pH 7.6, 200 mM NaCl, 0.1% Triton X-100) at 4 °C for 3 h with gentle rocking. Beads were then collected, washed, and resuspended in 20 μl of 2× loading buffer (100 mM Tris–HCl, pH 6.8, 200 mM DTT, 4% SDS, 0.2% bromophenol blue, 20% glycerol) for SDS-PAGE. The gels were then dried and exposed to X-ray film. For quantitative analysis, the experiments were repeated for selected CP derivatives and the resulting films were scanned using a densitometer (Amersham Biosciences). The MATCHMAKER Two-Hybrid System 2 (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA) was used for the yeast two-hybrid experiments. The activation domain (AD) vector used was pGAD10 and the DNA-binding domain (BD) vector was pAS2-1. The yeast strain was Y190. The experiments were carried out following the manufacturer's specifications. For the in vitro DNA-binding experiments, the N-terminal 268 AA portion of TIP was produced as a TIP-His 7 fusion protein in E. coli using the pET-28a expression system (Novagen, Madison, WI) and purified with the His Bind Quick Column according to manufacturer's specifications (Novagen). The double-stranded DNA probe was generated by annealing primer C (5'-CGC GAC GT A AGC TT C GGA AG-3', underlined is the recognition site for Hin dIII ) to a 10-fold molar excess of the oligonucleotide A (5'-GTC TGT CT G GAT CC G AGG TGA GTA N 20 ACG TCT TCC G AA GCT T AC GTC GCG-3', underlined are recognition sites for Bam HI and Hin dIII, respectively), which contained 20 random nucleotides in the middle (modified after CITATION ), followed by elongation with the Klenow fragment of E. coli DNA polymerase. The double-stranded products were separated from single-stranded oligonucleotide on an 8% polyacrylamide gel and purified. They were then radioactively ( 32 P) end-labeled by T4 kinase. The DNA binding assays were carried out using a procedure modified after CITATION . The reactions were performed at room temperature for 30 min in a buffer ( CITATION ) containing 4% Glycerol, 1 mM MgCl 2 , 0.5 mM EDTA, 0.5 mM DTT, 50 mM NaCl, and 10 mM Tris–HCl, pH 7.5 with different amounts of TIP–His 7 and random dsDNA fragments. The reactions were then loaded on 6% polyacrylamide gels that were prerun in 0.5× TBE buffer for 10 min at 350 V. The gel was then run at 4 °C, 350 V until the bromophenol blue dye was just off the gel (less than 20 min). The band containing the DNA fragments of slower mobility was excised and incubated at 37 °C for 3 h in 0.5 ml extraction buffer (0.5 M ammonium acetate, 10 mM MgCl 2 , 1 mM EDTA, and 0.1% SDS). The recovered DNA fragments were precipitated with ethanol and amplified by PCR with primers B (GTCTGTCTGGATCCGAGGTG) and primer C. Transient expression of proteins in plant leaf cells was accomplished with the Agrobacterium infiltration procedure ( CITATION ). Expression cassettes containing cDNAs of individual or fusion proteins sandwiched by Cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and terminator sequences were cloned into the binary vector pZP212 and transformed into Agrobacterium strain C58C1 ( CITATION ). The constructs used in this experiment were PZP–GFP–Ala 10 , PZP–GFP–Ala 10 –TIP, PZP–TCVCP, PZP–TCVCP–R6A, and PZP–TBSVCP. PZP–GFP–Ala 10 –TIP is designed to express the green fluorescence protein (GFP)–TIP fusion protein in plant cells. It included 10 alanine residues (Ala 10 ) inserted between GFP and TIP to facilitate correct protein folding. Accordingly, the control construct PZP–GFP–Ala 10 expressing the modified version of GFP also had 10 alanine residues at its C-terminus. PZP–TCVCP and PZP–TCVCP–R6A would enable the expression of TCV CP and its mutant R6A. PZP–TBSVCP is an additional control that expresses the coat protein of Tomato bushy stunt virus (TBSV). Agrobacterium suspensions carrying the various binary constructs were pelleted and resuspended in a solution containing 10 mM morpholinepropanesulfonic acid (pH 5.5), 10 mM MgCl 2 , and 100 μM acetosyringone to an optical density of 1.0 at 600 nm. In co-inoculations, equal volumes of each suspension were mixed prior to infiltration. Three-week-old N. benthamiana were infiltrated on the first two true leaves with a 3-ml, needleless syringe. The infiltrated plants were kept in growth chambers for a 12-h day length at a daytime temperature of 24 °C and a nighttime temperature of 22 °C. Agro-infiltrated N. benthamiana leaves were harvested at 2 days post-infiltration (dpi), mounted in water, and viewed by confocal fluorescence microscopy using a BioRad MRC 1024ES laser scanning confocal microscope system. GFP fluorescence was visualized by using dual excitation emission (Ex: 488/640 nm; Em: 522/680 nm). The plant cell nuclei were stained by direct infiltration of N. benthamiana leaves with 1 μg/ml 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI). DAPI-stained leaves were mounted in water and viewed with an Olympus AX 70 fluorescence microscope.
