!~ABS~! Chloroplast development requires coordinated expression of both nuclear- and chloroplast-encoded genes. To better understand the roles played by nuclear-encoded chloroplast proteins in chloroplast biogenesis, we isolated an Arabidopsis mutant, egy1-1, which has a dual phenotype, reduced chlorophyll accumulation and abnormal hypocotyl gravicurvature. Subsequent map-based cloning and DNA sequencing of the mutant gene revealed a 10-bp deletion in an EGY1 gene, which encodes a 59-kDa metalloprotease that contains eight trans-membrane domains at its C-terminus, and carries out β-casein degradation in an ATP-independent manner. EGY1 protein accumulation varies between tissue types, being most prominent in leaf and stem tissues, and is responsive to light and ethylene. EGY1-GFP hybrid proteins are localized in the chloroplast. egy1 mutant chloroplasts had reduced granal thylakoids and poorly developed lamellae networks. Furthermore, the accumulation of chlorophyll a/b binding proteins of the light-harvesting complexes I and II (Lhca and Lhcb) are significantly decreased in three separate loss-of-function egy1 mutants. Taken together, these results suggest that EGY1 metalloprotease is required for chloroplast development and, hence, a defective EGY1 gene has pleiotropic effects both on chloroplast development and on ethylene-dependent gravitropism of light-grown hypocotyls.
!~RES~! 
!~MM~! Seeds of Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh, Columbia (Col) and Wassilewskija (Ws) ecotype and seeds of SALK_134931 and SALK_061494 were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (Columbus, OH, USA). Growth of Arabidopsis and gravicurvature assay has been described previously (Lu et al., 2001, 2002). The ethylene concentration used to promote gravicurvature of light-grown hypocotyls was 10 p.p.m. To genetically map the EGY1 gene, the isolated egy1 mutant (Ws ecotype) was crossed with wild-type plants (Col ecotype). The resulting heterozygous F1 plant was selfed to generate F2 plants and the homozygous egy1 mutant plants were selected from the segregating F2 population based on phenotypes showing deficient ethylene-stimulated gravicurvature as well as yellow-green color of cotyledons. Genomic DNA from these plants was extracted and analyzed for co-segregation using available SSLP and CAPS markers (CITATION; CITATION). New SSLP markers were developed based on the sequence information from Cereon database and by searching for simple repeat sequences with the RepeatMasker program. Primer pairs for SSLP and CAPS markers are described in Table 3. EGY1 paralogs and orthologs were fetched out from different organisms using the full-length amino acid sequence of EGY1 in a blast search at NCBI database. Multiple sequence alignment of these homologs, paralogs and orthologs of EGY1 protein were constructed using ClustalW. The phylogenetic tree was reconstructed using phylip and displayed in Tree-view 1.6.6. The residue-specific hydropathy index was predicted by TMHMM_v.2. Localization of the protein was predicted by TargetP, version 1.01. To complement egy1 mutant function, PCR products amplified from the wild-type Ws genomic DNA by Elongase (Invitrogen Life Tech, CA, USA), with EGYGF and EGYGR primers (Table 3), were digested with BamHI and MluI and then subcloned into the binary vector pCAMBIA1301. The TAC (transformation-competent artificial chromosome) clone K3D20 DNA was digested with KpnI and BglII, and the 6.34-kb genomic DNA fragment containing the EGY1 coding region was cloned into pCAMBIA1301. Both recombinant constructs include the ORF of EGY1, a 2.3-kb flanking region upstream of the EGY1 transcript +1 site and a 1.2-kb DNA sequence downstream of the stop codon. The cDNA of EGY1 was obtained by RT-PCR using the EGYCF and EGYCR primers (Table 3). The amplified fragment was cloned into pCAMBIA1301, resulting in pCAMBIA 35S promoter::EGY1. To make the EGY1-GFP hybrid protein, the pCAMBIA-35Spromoter::EGY1 cDNA construct was employed as a template and the ORF of EGY1 was obtained by PCR using primers EGYFF and EGYFR (Table 3). The DNA fragment encoding GFP was amplified from pEGFP (ClonTech, Palo Alto, CA, USA) using primers EGFPF and EGFPR (Table 3). The NcoI/KpnI double-digested cDNA fragment and the KpnI/MluI double-digested GFP fragment were ligated with the pCAMBIA1301 vector predigested with NcoI/MluI. The resulting promoter35S::EGY1-GFP recombinant construct encodes a hybrid protein EGY1-GFP. The 35Spromoter::GFP construct was used as a control and both recombinant inserts were sequenced to ensure the authenticity of the transgenes. All these recombinant constructs were introduced into Arabidopsis (Ws ecotype) using the floral dip method (CITATION). Transformants were selected on MS medium containing 50 mg l−1 hygromycin. Green fluorescent signals from GFP and red fluorescent signals from chlorophyll were analyzed with a Leica DMIRE2 confocal laser-scanning microscope (Leica, Bensheim, Germany). Transmission electron microscopic studies of Arabidopsis tissues followed the standard method described by CITATION. The samples were observed through a JEOL 100CX transmission electron microscope (Jeol, Peabody, MA, USA). The 1.65-kb ORF of EGY1 was amplified by PCR using primers EGYEF and EGYER (Table 3). This cDNA fragment was cloned into the BamHI site of pGEX-2T (Amersham, Freiburg, Germany) to generate a glutathione S-transferase: EGY1 (GST-EGY1) fusion protein. The N-terminal region (aa 51–226) of EGY1, EGY1Δ372NC, was amplified using EGYNF and EGYNR primers (Table 3). The cDNA fragment was cloned into BamHI site of pGEX-2T to produce a recombinant fusion protein GST-EGY1Δ372NC protein. The DNA sequences of these fusion genes were verified by DNA sequencing and fusion proteins were expressed in E. coli strain BL21 (DE3) pLysS and isolated as previously described (CITATION). The hybrid proteins, GST-EGY1 and GST-EGY1Δ372NC, that had been expressed and purified from E. coli, were mixed with 3 μg of β-casein substrate (Sigma, Saint Louis, MO, USA), and incubated at 37°C for various times in a reaction buffer containing 50 mm Tris acetate, pH 8.0, 80 mm NaCl, 5 mm Mg-acetate, 12.5 μm Zn acetate, 100 μg ml−1 BSA, 1.4 mmβ-mercaptoethanol. The reactions were supplemented with 5 mm ATP when necessary. The protease inhibitors used in the reaction included o-phenanthroline (10 mm, Sigma) and the Complete (EDTA-free), a protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche, Mannheim, Germany). At the end of the incubations, Laemmli solubilizing buffer was added and the samples were stored on ice before being subjected to SDS-PAGE analysis on 12% acrylamide gels. The remaining β-casein quantities in each reaction were determined with an Eagle-Eye image program by quantifying the intensity of the Coomassie brilliant blue R 250-stained β-casein band in the gel. Antibodies against EGY1 protein were raised by immunizing rabbits with the highly purified N-terminal region (aa 51–226) of EGY1. The antibody raised against vacuolar sorting receptor (VSR) proteins was a gift from Dr Liwen Jiang. Anti-Lhca1 antibodies (aE-16) and anti-Rubicso activase antibodies (aA-18) were purchased from Santa Cruz Biotechnology (Santa Cruz, CA, USA).
