!~ABS~! Diverse kinesin motor proteins are involved in spindle function; however, the mechanisms by which they are targeted to specific sites within spindles are not well understood. Here, we show that a fusion between yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) and a minus-end–directed Kinesin-14 (C-terminal family) from Arabidopsis, ATK5, localizes to mitotic spindle midzones and regions rich in growing plus-ends within phragmoplasts. Notably, in Arabidopsis interphase cells, YFP::ATK5 localizes to microtubules with a preferential enrichment at growing plus-ends; indicating ATK5 is a plus-end tracking protein (+TIP). This +TIP activity is conferred by regions outside of the C-terminal motor domain, which reveals the presence of independent plus-end tracking and minus-end motor activities within ATK5. Furthermore, mitotic spindles of atk5 null mutant plants are abnormally broadened. Based on these data, we propose a model in which ATK5 uses plus-end tracking to reach spindle midzones, where it then organizes microtubules via minus-end–directed motor activity.
!~RES~! We first sought to elucidate the mechanism of ATK5 functioning by examining the dynamics of ATK5 subcellular localization in vivo. To this end, full-length ATK5 cDNA was fused in-frame to the 3′ end of mYFP (Figure 1A). The fusion gene was stably expressed in Arabidopsis plants and tobacco BY-2 cells under the control of constitutive CaMV35S or inducible HSP18.2 promoters. In Arabidopsis plants, YFP::ATK5 localized to microtubules in dividing cells of root tips, and interphase cells of hypocotyls, roots, and leaves. Notably, in interphase cells, fluorescence of YFP::ATK5 was not uniform along the length of microtubules but was enriched specifically at growing microtubule plus-ends (Figure 1, B–D; see Supplementary Movie 1). Figure 1C shows a time sequence tracking a single microtubule over time. The microtubule is initially growing and then switches to shrinkage phase (denoted by an asterisk). As the microtubule switches from growth to shrinkage, fluorescence accumulation at the plus-end decreases to a level comparable with that seen along the microtubule sidewall. The plus-end enrichment of YFP::ATK5 was dependent on the dynamic state of the microtubule; accumulation of fluorescence at the plus-end is lost upon microtubule catastrophe, and restored upon rescue (see Supplemental Movie 1). This fluorescence pattern is consistent with that of a +TIP (CITATION). Figure 1D shows typical YFP::ATK5 fluorescence intensity profiles along microtubules in both growth and shrinkage phases. [[FIGURE]] In dividing tobacco BY-2 cells, YFP::ATK5 localized to mitotic spindles and cytokinetic phragmoplasts (Figure 2). Notably, YFP::ATK5 fluorescence accumulated in spindle midzones from early prometaphase (just after nuclear envelope breakdown) to telophase (see Supplementary Movie 2). During metaphase, YFP::ATK5 was enriched on microtubules of the midzone region (Figure 2, top row). As the cells progressed from metaphase to anaphase, fluorescence remained concentrated on the overlapping region of midzone interpolar microtubules, but it was not detected on kinetochore microtubules (Figure 2, middle row). As anaphase progressed, the region of midzone fluorescence narrowed, presumably corresponding to the known reduction in overlap between interdigitating interpolar microtubules as they slide apart during spindle elongation (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). In centrifugally expanding phragmoplasts (i.e., during cytokinesis), YFP::ATK5 was localized predominately at the leading edge, just in front of the bulk of the microtubule population (Figure 2, bottom row). Phragmoplasts consist of two opposing sets of microtubules oriented with the plus-ends facing inward, where they often overlap in the middle (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). As phragmoplast expansion progresses, microtubule depolymerization in the center is accompanied by polymerization at the leading edges, indicating that the leading edge is rich in growing microtubule plus-ends (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] These data show that ATK5 behaves as a +TIP and that it accumulates at spindle midzones and phragmoplast leading edges. The observed plus-end accumulation is inconsistent with the predicted minus-end motor activity of ATK5; therefore, we sought biochemical confirmation of minus-end–directed motor activity. To exclude the possibility that ATK5 uses plus-end–directed motor activity to reach growing microtubule plus-ends, full-length ATK5 cDNA was cloned into a GST expression vector for bacterial expression and in vitro microtubule gliding assays. The GST control did not support microtubule motility (our unpublished data). Figure 3 shows that in the presence of ATP, GST::ATK5 supports the minus-end directed motility of microtubules. Microtubules land and glide along the ATK5-coated surface with their plus-ends leading (minus-ends are brighter), showing that ATK5 is a minus-end–directed motor. This finding is consistent with the properties of all other Kinesin-14 family members studied to date (CITATION). By measuring the velocity of microtubule translocation, the speed of ATK5 was determined to be 6.30 ± 1.36 μm min–1 at 20°C (n = 6), which is similar to ATK1 and other Kinesin-14 family members (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Additionally, bacterially expressed GST::YFP::ATK5 also supported microtubule motility; which confirms the viability of the fusion protein. These data show that ATK5 is a minus-end–directed motor, thereby excluding the possibility that ATK5 motors toward microtubule plus-ends. This suggests that the plus-end tracking of ATK5 activity is independent of its motor activity. [[FIGURE]] To determine whether the plus-end tracking behavior was conferred by regions outside the motor domain, a truncation was made consisting of only the tail and coiled-coil stalk domains (YFP::TS; amino acids 1–423; Figure 4A). This construct was stably expressed in Arabidopsis plants and BY-2 cells under control of the CaMV35S promoter. In Arabidopsis plants, YFP::TS localized to microtubule plus-ends in a manner similar to the full-length YFP::ATK5 (Figure 4, B–D; see Supplementary Movie 3). The time-series plots depicted in Figure 3, C and D, track single, dynamic microtubule plus-ends exhibiting loss of plus-end fluorescence enrichment concurrent with catastrophe, and restoration upon rescue. Figure 3E shows the typical YFP::TS fluorescence intensity profiles along microtubules in growth or shrinkage phases. These data indicate that the tail-stalk region of ATK5 is responsible for the accumulation at growing microtubule plus-ends. To exclude the possibility of cryptic plus-end–directed motor activity in the Tail/Stalk, YFP::TS also was expressed as a GST fusion (GST::YFP::TS). GST::YFP::TS did not support gliding of microtubules in vitro (our unpublished data). [[FIGURE]] When stably expressed in BY-2 cells, YFP::TS localized to spindles and phragmoplasts in a manner similar to the full-length YFP::ATK5 (Figure 5; see Supplementary Movie 4), thus excluding the possibility that midzone targeting of ATK5 is achieved by cross-linking microtubules via motor and nonmotor microtubule binding sites. These data indicate that the Tail/Stalk region is responsible for targeting ATK5 to spindle midzones and phragmoplasts and suggest that ATK5 exerts force in these regions. [[FIGURE]] To explore the role of ATK5 in mitotic spindles, mutant atk5 plants containing T-DNA insertions in coding regions (exon 9; Figure 6A) of ATK5 were analyzed for defects in mitosis. RT-PCR showed loss of transcript in mutant plants (Figure 6B). Two alleles, designated atk5-1 and atk5-2, containing independent insertions in exon 9 of ATK5 were studied. Plants, homozygous for either allele, seem normal and exhibit developmental and reproductive characteristics indistinguishable from wild-type. All data presented herein were obtained from atk5-1, but comparable results were seen for atk5-2 (our unpublished data). Using anti-tubulin antibodies, immunofluorescence was performed in wild-type and atk5-1 root mitotic cells (Figure 7). Although interphase cells contained normal microtubule arrays, dividing cells in the root tips of atk5 mutant plants exhibited abnormally broadened mitotic spindles in metaphase (compare rows A and B) and anaphase (compare rows C and D). Spindle microtubules as well as chromosomes were laterally broadened throughout mitosis in atk5 plants, resulting in a greater distance between chromosomes at the metaphase plate; however, this did not affect the ability of the chromosomes to align during metaphase and segregate normally during anaphase. During metaphase, mean spindle width was significantly larger in atk5-1 compared with wild type (Figure 8), as measured at the spindle midzone (6.58 ± 0.12 μm for atk5-1, n = 45 cells vs. 5.80 ± 0.18 μm for wild type, n = 45 cells; p < 0.0002, Student's t test), and at spindle poles (5.21 ± 1.58 μm for atk5-1, n = 90 cells vs. 4.08 ± 1.12 μm for wild type, n = 75 cells, p < 7.23 e–13, Student's t test). During anaphase, mean spindle width was also significantly greater compared with wild-type as measured both at the spindle midzone (6.48 ± 0.17 μm for atk5-1, n = 47 cells vs. 5.42 ± 0.19 μm for wild type, n = 26 cells; p < 0.0002, Student's t test), and at the poles (5.33 ± 1.21 μm for atk5–1, n = 45 cells; vs. 3.70 ± 1.32 μm for wild-type, n = 30 cells; p < 3.89 e–13, Student's t test). Because ATK5 is localized predominately to the spindle midzone, the spindle pole broadening is interpreted as largely a result of the loss of forces generated in the spindle midzone, which links together rigid microtubules emanating from the poles. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana (Columbia) were grown on Arabidopsis medium (CITATION) or on soil under 18-h/6-h day/night at 250 μE/m2/s in growth chambers (Perceivel Scientific, Perry, IA) at 20–23°C. For Agrobacterium-mediated transformation, inflorescences were sprayed with a suspension of Agrobacterium tumefaciens (strain C58C1; OD = 1.2) carrying appropriate transgenes in 5% sucrose solution supplemented with 0.02% Silwet-77 (Helena Chemical, Fresno, CA). T1 seeds were collected and plated onto medium containing appropriate antibiotics, screened at 7 d for fluorescence, and transplanted to soil. T2 and T3 plants were used for experiments. Tobacco BY-2 cells were maintained in liquid culture and on plates as calli for long-term maintenance. Liquid cultures were subcultured at 7-d intervals (diluted 1:50 into fresh BY-2 medium, containing 4.3 g l–1 Murishige and Skoog's salts, 100 mg l–1 inositol, 1 mg l–1 thiamine, 0.2 mg l–1 2,4-D, 255 mg l–1 KH2PO4, and 3% sucrose, pH 5.0). For Agrobacterium-mediated transformation, 2 ml of 4-d BY-2 cells were mixed with 10 μl from an overnight culture of Agrobacterium (strain LBA4404, containing the appropriate transgene) and 20 μM acetosyringone and then incubated in darkness for 4 d. Transformants were selected on BY-2 medium (0.35% Phytagel) containing appropriate antibiotics, and individual calli were screened by fluorescence microscopy for suitable transgene expression. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) products were cloned using the Topo TA cloning system (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). Fragments were then excised with the appropriate restriction enzymes for cloning into the plant transformation vector pCambia1300 (Cambia Institute, Canberra, Australia) containing a CaMV35S- or HSP18.2-driven mYFP (CITATION) or into the bacterial expression vector pGEX-5 × -3 (Novagen, Madison, WI). ATK5 (accession no. AtC17L17.110/At4g05190) cDNA was amplified from an Arabidopsis floral cDNA library with the following primers: ATK5fwd (5′-GGATCCATGCCACTTCGCAACCAGA-3′) and ATK5rev (5′-GGATCCTTAACCGTAACTTAGGCGA-3′). BamHI fragments containing ATK5 were ligated into either pCambia1300 for plant transformation or the pGEX5 × -3 for in vitro motility experiments. ATK5 tail/stalk was amplified using the following primers: ATK5fwd and ATK5TSrev (5′-GAGCTCGCGGCCGCTTAAACATGAGTTTCATCCAC-3′). The tail/stalk fragment was excised using BamHI and SacI and cloned into pCambia 1300. T-DNA insertional mutants were obtained from the Salk collection (La Jolla, CA). SALK_001544 (T-DNA insertion at 2211 in coding sequence) was designated atk5-1, and SALK_065546 (T-DNA insertion at 2213 in coding sequence) was designated atk5-2. Genotyping was performed with two PCR reactions: 1) T-DNA specific and 2) gene specific. For the T-DNA–specific reaction, the following primers were used: ATK5fwd and LBb1 (5′-AACCAGCGTGGACCGCTTGCTG-3′). For the gene-specific reaction, the following primers were used: 38 (5′-TCACTACAAGATCAATTAG-3′) and 43 (5′-TCAAAGAATACTTCCTCC-3′). RNA was extracted from wild-type, atk5-1, and atk5-2 seedlings and treated with RQ1 DNase (Promega, Madison, WI). cDNA was synthesized by using Superscript II (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) according to manufacturer's instructions. RT-PCR was performed by combining gene-specific primers oMC 772 (5′-GGCCTCTTGGCGTCCTCCATCA-3′) and oMC 795 (5′-AGCGAGCTGCAACAAGTCCGTG-3′). Expression of the constitutive adenine phosphoribosyltransferase (APT1) gene was examined as a control (CITATION). Five-day Arabidopsis seedlings grown on vertical agar plates were fixed for 1 h (4% formaldehyde [freshly prepared from paraformaldehyde], 50 mM PIPES, pH 6.9, 5 mM EGTA, 1 mM MgSO4, and 1% glycerol), rinsed, and digested with cell wall-degrading enzymes (0.5% cellulose, 0.05% pectolyase, and 0.5% Triton X-100) for 15 min. Roots were excised and squashed on poly-l-lysine (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO)-coated slides. The squashed cells were treated with 3% bovine serum albumin for 1 h in a humidity chamber, rinsed, and detergent extracted for 20 min in 0.5% Triton X-100 before incubation in fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC)-conjugated DMA1 anti-tubulin antibody (1:75 dilution; Sigma-Aldrich) for 1.5 h. After rinsing in phosphate-buffered saline, 40 μl of fluorescent mounting medium (0.1 M Tris, pH 9.0, 50% glycerol, and 1 mg ml–1 phenylenediamine, supplemented with 1 μg ml–1 Hoescht 33258 for chromosomal staining) was added, coverslips were applied, and the specimens were sealed with nail polish. Images were collected using a Plan-Neofluar 40× (1.3 numerical Aperture) oil immersion objective (Carl Zeiss, Thornwood, NY). Wide-field microscopy was conducted using a shutter-equipped Zeiss Axiovert, and images were captured with a Coolsnap HQ charge-coupled device camera (Roper Industries, Duluth, GA) controlled by ESEE software (Inovision, Durham, NC). The following filter sets were used to distinguish between fluorophores: green fluorescent protein (GFP)/FITC (460- to 500-nm excitation, 510- to 560-nm emission); yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) (490- to 510-nm excitation, 520- to 550-nm emission); DsRed (530- to 560-nm excitation, 575- to 645-nm emission); and Hoescht (340- to 380-nm excitation, 435- to 485-nm emission). The construct MBD::DsRed was used to visualize microtubules in BY-2 cells, as reported previously (CITATION). Five-second intervals were used for time-lapse imaging of microtubule dynamics in Arabidopsis interphase cells, and 1-min intervals were used for monitoring cell division in BY-2 cells. Typical exposure times were 1–2 s. Cleared bacterial lysates from BL21 (DE3) cells (Novagen) expressing glutathione S-transferase (GST)::ATK5 or GST::YFP::ATK5 were used. Polarity marking of microtubules and microtubule gliding assays were done as described previously (CITATION).
