!~ABS~! Plants perceive subtle changes in light quality and quantity through a set of photoreceptors, including phytochromes and cryptochromes. Upon perception, these photoreceptors initiate signal transduction pathways leading to photomorphogenic changes in development. Using activation-tagging mutagenesis to identify novel light-signaling components, we have isolated a gain-of-function mutant, sob1-D (suppressor of phytochrome B-4 [phyB-4] dominant), which suppresses the long-hypocotyl phenotype of the phyB missense allele, phyB-4. The sob1-D mutant phenotype is caused by the overexpression of a Dof (DNA binding with one finger) transcription factor, OBF4 Binding Protein 3 (OBP3). A translational fusion between OBP3 and green fluorescent protein is nuclear localized in onion (Allium cepa) cells. Tissue-specific accumulation of an OBP3:OBP3-β-glucuronidase translational fusion is regulated by light in Arabidopsis thaliana. Hypocotyls of transgenic lines with reduced OBP3 expression are less responsive to red light. This aberrant phenotype in red light requires functional phyB, suggesting that OBP3 is a positive regulator of phyB-mediated inhibition of hypocotyl elongation. Furthermore, these partial-loss-of-function lines have larger cotyledons. This light-dependent cotyledon phenotype is most dramatic in blue light and requires functional cryptochrome 1 (cry1), indicating that OBP3 is a negative regulator of cry1-mediated cotyledon expansion. These results suggest a model where OBP3 is a component in both phyB and cry1 signaling pathways, acting as a positive and negative regulator, respectively. An alternate, though not mutually exclusive, model places OBP3 as a general inhibitor of tissue expansion with phyB and cry1, differentially modulating OBP3's role in this response.
!~RES~! The Arabidopsis phyB-4 mutation, caused by a single amino acid change near the chromophore binding site, confers a long-hypocotyl phenotype when compared with the wild type (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). In an activation-tagging mutagenesis of ∼7000 primary transformants (T1), we identified and cloned the genes causing four independent, gain-of-function mutations that suppress the long-hypocotyl phenotype of phyB-4. This study focuses on one of these mutants identified in our lab, sob1-D. The sob1-D phyB-4 double mutant had a dramatically shorter hypocotyl than the phyB-4 mutant and the wild type when grown in white light (Figure 1A). However, the double mutant elongated normally in the dark, suggesting that the gene altered in this mutant is involved in light signaling (Figure 1A). Both the sob1-D phyB-4 double mutant and sob1-D single mutant were severe dwarfs with reduced fertility as adults (Figure 1B; data not shown). DNA gel blot and segregation analysis indicated that there was one T-DNA in the sob1-D phyB-4 mutant, and it was genetically linked to the mutant phenotype. [[FIGURE]] Genomic DNA flanking the T-DNA insertion was cloned via plasmid rescue. Sequencing and subsequent BLAST analysis (CITATION) of a portion of the cloned DNA indicated that the T-DNA was inserted into chromosome III. The closest open reading frame is ∼1 kb 5′ from the left border of the T-DNA. Sequencing and PCR analysis confirmed that all four copies of the enhancers were inserted 1139 bp 3′ of the stop codon of a Dof transcription factor previously named OBP3 (Figure 1C; CITATION). RT-PCR demonstrated that OBP3 is overexpressed in the sob1-D phyB-4 mutant (Figure 1D). To confirm that OBP3 overexpression causes the sob1-D mutant phenotype, the phyB-4 mutant was transformed with genomic DNA encoding OBP3 along with the four enhancers. Transgenic lines with increased OBP3 expression recapitulated the original sob1-D mutant phenotypes (Figures 1A, 1B, and 1D), indicating that the overexpression of OBP3 is responsible for suppressing the long-hypocotyl phenotype of phyB-4 in the sob1-D phyB-4 double mutant. Based on sequence similarity, OBP3 is a putative Dof transcription factor (CITATION). In addition, an OBP3 protein lacking 59 amino acids from the N terminus, though containing the Dof domain, is capable of binding DNA in vitro and activating transcription in a transient assay (CITATION). However, OBP3's subcellular localization is unknown. To determine the subcellular localization of OBP3, the same OBP3 cDNA used by CITATION was translationally fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP). This construct was cobombarded into onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells along with a construct containing dsRed under control of the Zea mays ubiquitin (UBQ) promoter. This dsRed control localized throughout the cell, including within the nucleus (Figure 2A), in a manner similar to constitutively expressed GFP (data not shown). However, the OBP3-GFP fusion protein was only nuclear localized in these onion epidermal cells (Figures 2B and 2C). OBP3's nuclear localization (Figures 2A to 2C), along with its ability to bind DNA and activate transcription (CITATION), suggests that this gene encodes a bona fide Dof transcription factor. [[FIGURE]] OBP3 mRNA levels were not altered in seedlings grown in continuous light or in the dark (Figure 1E). In addition, OBP3 transcript levels were unaffected by the fluence rate or wavelength of light or during the transition (first 24 h) from darkness to growth in the light (data not shown). However, many transcription factors involved in light signaling are regulated at the protein level (CITATION; CITATION). To determine the relative amount and localization of OBP3 in response to changes in light, wild-type Arabidopsis was transformed with a construct encoding an OBP3:β-glucuronidase (GUS) translational fusion protein, consisting of the genomic DNA encoding OBP3 fused at the 3′ end to GUS. This fusion was expressed using 1.4 kb of DNA 5′ of the OBP3 open reading frame. Multiple homozygous lines containing a single locus insertion had varying degrees of sob1-D mutant phenotypes. These phenotypes correlated with OBP3-GUS mRNA levels, suggesting that the fusion protein is functional (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). GUS analysis was performed on at least three independent lines grown for 5 d in the dark or in continuous white light (Figures 2D to 2I). GUS staining was present in the apex, cotyledons, and occasionally in the root apex of dark-grown seedlings (Figures 2D and 2E). In light-grown seedlings, GUS staining was present in the shoot apex (Figures 2F and 2I) and the vascular tissue of the cotyledons (Figures 2F and 2G), hypocotyl (Figures 2F and 2I), and roots (Figure 2H). Taken together, these data indicate that light causes OBP3 to accumulate in the vascular tissue of hypocotyls and roots and possibly cotyledons. This localization was independent of the fluence rate of light (data not shown). Seedlings grown in continuous red or blue light showed similar staining patterns to white light–grown seedlings (data not shown). Seedlings grown in far-red light had staining only in the apex and cotyledons, similar to dark-grown seedlings (data not shown). The sob1-D phyB-4 mutant suppressed the long-hypocotyl phenotype of phyB-4 in the light, while elongating normally in the dark, suggesting that OBP3 may be involved in light signaling (Figure 1). Because no null mutations in OBP3 exist to date, OBP3 partial-loss-of-function transgenic lines were generated using RNA interference (RNAi) (CITATION) to further test the role of OBP3 in photomorphogenesis. A 475-bp region containing a portion of the final OBP3 exon and 3′ untranslated region was amplified by PCR and cloned into a binary vector in a hairpin manner, under the control of the 35S promoter of Cauliflower mosaic virus. This region did not contain the highly conserved Dof domain, and BLAST analysis indicated no homology to other sequences in the Arabidopsis genome. Some of the resulting homozygous OBP3-RNAi lines conferred larger adult stature (Figure 3). RT-PCR was performed on these plants to determine if they had lower OBP3 transcript levels. Those lines with larger adult stature had lower OBP3 expression (Figure 3). In addition, transgenic lines with normal adult stature had normal OBP3 expression levels (data not shown). One of these original lines, OBP3-RNAi1-4-3, was crossed with the sob1-D phyB-4 mutant, resulting in F1 progeny with a hypocotyl phenotype similar to the wild type (data not shown). This provides further evidence that OBP3 expression is reduced in the OBP3-RNAi lines because the RNAi phenotype is dominant with regard to the overexpression phenotype. [[FIGURE]] To determine whether OBP3 is involved in light signal transduction, fluence rate response experiments were performed using the wild type and the OBP3-RNAi1-4-3 line (Figure 4). Like the sob1-D mutant, OBP3-RNAi1-4-3 and other OBP3-RNAi lines elongated normally in the dark (Figures 1A and 4; see Supplemental Figure 2A online). In multiple fluence rates of white light, OBP3-RNAi1-4-3 conferred a subtle though statistically significant long-hypocotyl phenotype when compared with the wild type, suggesting that OBP3 is involved in light signaling (Figure 4A). Multiple OBP3-RNAi lines, including OBP3-RNAi1-4-3, were also less responsive to multiple fluence rates of red light when compared with the wild type (Figure 4B; see Supplemental Figure 2A online). Multiple OBP3-RNAi lines, including OBP3-RNAi1-4-3, responded normally to far-red light (Figure 4D; see Supplemental Figure 2A online). Though hypocotyls of the OBP3-RNAi1-4-3 line were shorter in blue light (Figure 4C), this phenotype was not conferred by other OBP3-RNAi lines (see Supplemental Figure 2A online). Together, these data indicate that OBP3 is a positive regulator of hypocotyl elongation inhibition in red and white light. [[FIGURE]] To determine if phyB is necessary for this OBP3-mediated hypocotyl response in red light, double mutants between OBP3-RNAi1-4-3 and weak and null alleles of phyB were generated. Although phyB-null mutants grown in red light are near their maximal growth rate, phyA phyB double mutants and phyB phyC phyD triple mutants are capable of elongating more than phyB-null mutants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), suggesting that this genetic test will determine if phyB is required for the OBP3-mediated hypocotyl response. The OBP3-RNAi1-4-3 hypocotyls were less responsive to red light only when wild-type or partially functional (i.e., phyB-4) phyB was present (Figure 5). By contrast, the OBP3-RNAi1-4-3 phyB-null (phyB-9) double mutant hypocotyls responded the same way to red light as the phyB-9 mutant. This experiment was repeated in a lower fluence rate of red light and gave the same result (19 μM/m2/s; data not shown), demonstrating that the OBP3-RNAi1-4-3 aberrant hypocotyl response to red light requires phyB. Because PHYB transcript accumulation was not affected by the genetic state of OBP3 (data not shown), these results demonstrate that this transcription factor is a positive regulator of phyB-mediated hypocotyl elongation inhibition in response to red light. [[FIGURE]] The sob1-D phyB-4 double mutant had smaller, upwardly cupped cotyledons when grown in white light (Figures 1A and 6A). Because the sob1-D mutant was a severe dwarf as an adult (Figure 1B), it was predicted that OBP3-RNAi adult plants would be larger in stature. In addition to this larger adult stature (Figure 3), multiple OBP3-RNAi mutants had larger cotyledons when grown in white light (Figure 6; see Supplemental Figure 2B online). To determine if this increase in cotyledon size is because of cell expansion or cell division, epidermal imprints were examined and cell area was measured (Figure 6B, Table 1). The sob1-D phyB-4 mutant cotyledons had smaller epidermal cells when compared with both the phyB-4 mutant and the wild type (Figures 6A and 6B). OBP3-RNAi1-4-3 and other OBP3-RNAi lines had larger epidermal cells when compared with the wild type (Figure 6B, Table 1). [[FIGURE]] Cotyledon Epidermal Cell Area To determine if OBP3-mediated cotyledon expansion involves specific photoreceptor signaling pathways, multiple OBP3-RNAi lines, including OBP3-RNAi1-4-3, were grown in different wavelengths of light, and the cotyledon area was measured (Figure 7; see Supplemental Figure 2B online). Cotyledons of the OBP3-RNAi lines were dramatically larger than the wild type in blue light and slightly, though significantly, larger in red and far-red light (Figure 7; see Supplemental Figure 2B online). Taken together, these data demonstrate that OBP3 is a negative regulator of cotyledon expansion in multiple photomorphogenic signaling pathways. [[FIGURE]] The most striking OBP3-RNAi cotyledon phenotype was seen in blue light, suggesting a role for cry1 in this response. To determine if cry1 is necessary for the aberrant cotyledon response conferred by OBP3-RNAi1-4-3 in blue light, double mutants were generated with weak and null alleles of cry1. The OBP3-RNAi1-4-3 cry1-weak (cry1-102) double mutant had significantly larger cotyledons than cry1-102. By contrast, cotyledons of the OBP3-RNAi1-4-3 cry1-null (cry1-103) double mutant were the same size as the cry1-103 mutant. Thus, OBP3-mediated cotyledon expansion in response to blue light was observed only when wild-type or partially functional cry1 (i.e., cry1-102) was present (Figure 7A). Because CRY1 transcript accumulation was not affected by the genetic state of OBP3 (data not shown), these data indicate that OBP3 is a negative regulator of cry1-mediated cotyledon cell expansion in response to blue light.
!~MM~! Seeds were surface sterilized by shaking in 70% (v/v) ethanol containing 0.05% (v/v) Triton X-100 for 15 min, followed by treatment with 95% (v/v) ethanol for 5 min. After the ethanol washes, seeds were dried on sterile 70-mm Whatman filter paper (Maidstone, UK) in a laminar-flow hood and sown on media containing either 0.8% phytagar (w/v) (Gibco BRL, Gaithersburg, MD), half-strength MS salts (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA), 1.5% (w/v) sucrose with antibiotic, or 1.0% phytagel (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO), half-strength MS salts. After incubation for 4 d at 4°C, germination was induced by treating seeds with 1 h of red light followed by 23 h of darkness. Seeds were then placed in the appropriate light condition. All incubators were at 25°C. Plates were incubated in a white light chamber (Model E-30-B; Percival Scientific, Perry, IA) or a light emitting diode incubator (Model E-30-LED; Percival Scientific). White light was supplied by four fluorescent tubes (F17T8/TL741 17 W; Phillips, Eindhoven, The Netherlands) and two incandescent bulbs (PC, 13,487 25T10/F CD 25 W, 120 V; GE, Fairfield, CT). Red and blue lights were supplied by eight fluorescent tubes. Colored Plexiglas was placed on the plates to obtain blue and red light conditions. Far-red light was obtained by the far-red light emitting diodes from the E-30-LED incubator. These diodes were set at 10% of their maximal fluence rate. One to five layers of fiberglass window screen were placed over the plates to obtain the appropriate fluence rates of light. Arabidopsis thaliana phyB-4 mutant plants, ecotype Columbia (Col-0) were transformed with the activation-tagging construct, pSKI074 (GenBank accession number AF218466) (CITATION) as in CITATION. Plants were transformed via the floral dip method using Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 (CITATION). T1 seeds were grown on plates containing kanamycin (30 mg/L) in continuous white light (35 μM/m2/s) for 7 d. The sob1-D phyB-4 double mutant was identified by its shorter hypocotyl when compared with phyB-4 mutant plants. T2 seeds from self-fertilized sob1-D phyB-4 were screened on plates with and without kanamycin to confirm that the mutant phenotype is linked to the transgene. T2 seedlings segregated 3:1 kanmycin resistant:kanamycin sensitive, indicating that there was one locus containing a T-DNA. T3 seeds from self-fertilized T2 plants were screened in the same way to confirm the genetic heritability of the mutant phenotype and linkage to the transgene. The presence of the phyB-4 mutation was confirmed in the sob1-D phyB-4 mutant as in CITATION. DNA gel blot analysis and plasmid rescue were performed essentially the same as in CITATION. The DNA gel blot indicated that the sob1-D phyB-4 mutant contains only one T-DNA insertion. The location of this T-DNA was determined by cloning the flanking genomic DNA via plasmid rescue. Genomic DNA from the sob1-D mutant was digested with HindIII and religated with T4 DNA ligase (New England Biolabs, Beverly, MA), resulting in a 14.4-kb construct, pSOB1-H4. The genomic DNA flanking the T-DNA was sequenced with a primer (5′-GCTCTCTCGAGGTCGACGG-3′). BLASTn analysis indicated that the genomic DNA is from chromosome III, and the closest open reading frame was OBP3 (At3g55370). RT-PCR analysis was performed on total RNA isolated, using the RNeasy Plant Mini kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA), from 5-d-old seedlings grown in continuous white light. Total cDNA was synthesized using SuperScript III first-strand synthesis system for RT-PCR (Invitrogen). PCR was performed on dilute cDNA using Taq polymerase (Invitrogen). The OBP3 gene was amplified using the 5′-TACTTCTCGCCCAAGTTACTCAAACCCTAGC-3′ and 5′-GAATGAGAGATGGCCTGTTGAGTTGTTGGAGG-3′ primers. The ubiquitin10 (UBQ10) gene was used as an internal control. UBQ10 was amplified using the 5′-GGTATTCCTCCGGACCAGCAGC-3′ and 5′-CGACTTGTCATTAGAAAGAAAGAGATAACAGGAACGG-3′ primers. The linear range of accuracy for the detection of each transcript was established by comparing samples run for different numbers of cycles. All final RT-PCR experiments were performed at least in duplicate. The sob1-D recapitulation construct was generated by ligating a SacI fragment from pSOB1-H4 into pPZP212 (CITATION) cut with SacI. This SacI fragment from pSOB1-H4 contains the four enhancer elements from the CaMV 35S promoter, the OBP3 open reading frame, and 4.1 kb of noncoding DNA 5′ of the OBP3 gene. The phyB-4 mutant was transformed with this construct via A. tumefaciens–mediated transformation (CITATION). Primary transformants were screened on plates containing kanamycin (30 mg/L). The OBP3 cDNA lacking 59 N-terminal amino acids was amplified from cDNA synthesized from the sob1-D mutant using the following primers: 5′-CATGCCATGGATGGTGGAACGTGAACGTGCTCGG-3′ and 5′-ACATGCCATGGCGAATGAGAGATGGCCTG-3′. The PCR product was cut with NcoI and inserted into the pCAMBIA1301 vector (CAMBIA, Canberra, Australia). This C-terminal fusion to GFP results in an Ala added onto the C terminus of OBP3 in place of the stop codon. The PCR product was sequenced to confirm that there were no errors affecting the open reading frame. Particle bombardment has been described in detail elsewhere (CITATION). The 35S:OBP3-GFP construct was cobombarded with a construct containing the dsRed gene driven by the maize (Zea mays) ubiquitin promoter (CITATION).These two constructs in a 1:1 molar ratio were cobombarded into layers of white onion (Allium cepa) cut into 1-inch squares. After bombardment, the onions were wrapped in moist Kim-Wipes and incubated in the dark for 24 h. To view the transformed epidermal cells, the epidermal layer was pulled from the piece of onion with forceps and placed on a microscope slide. The layer of epidermal cells was kept moist with distilled water. The cells were viewed by confocal microscopy using the Leica confocal system TCS2 (Leica Microsystems, Heidelberg, Germany) essentially the same as by CITATION. At least 10 independent transformation events were observed, and all showed the same localization patterns. The entire OBP3 gene along with a small portion of the region upstream of the gene was amplified from pSOB1-H4 using the following primers: 5′-TTGTCTCCGACCAATGTTTC-3′ and 5′-ACATGCCATGGCGAATGAGAGATGGCCTG-3′. The fragment was cut with EcoRI and NcoI and inserted into pCAMBIA1381 (CAMBIA), cut with these same enzymes. This C-terminal fusion to GUS resulted in an Ala linking the two proteins. This portion of the construct, which was created by PCR, was sequenced to ensure that there were no errors. A 1438-bp region upstream of the OBP3 gene is used to drive the expression of this fusion gene. This region was cloned from the pSOB1-H4 vector by cutting with EcoRI and inserted into the vector containing the OBP3 open reading frame:GUS translational fusion gene, resulting in pJW8. Arabidopsis ecotype Col-0 was transformed with pJW8, and multiple homozygous, single locus insertion lines were identified by screening on plates containing hygromycin (20 mg/L). GUS analysis was performed in triplicate on 5-d-old seedlings by incubating in GUS staining solution (1 mM 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-glucuronic acid, cyclohexyl ammonium salt, 50 mM NaHPO4, pH 7.2, and 0.05% [v/v] Triton X-100) at 37°C for 24 h. Seedlings were photographed essentially the same as by CITATION. Lines 8.47.1, 8.7.2, and 8.83.1 were used in the analysis, and all showed similar GUS staining patterns (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Primers 5′-CGCGGATCCGTGAAGGCGGAAGAGAATG-3′, 5′-CCATCGATCATACATATCACCCACACCTC-3′ and 5′-GACCTCGAGTGAAGGCGGAAGAGAATG-3′, 5′-CGGGGTACCATACATATCACCCACACCTC-3′ were used to amplify a 475-bp fragment of the OBP3 gene and 3′ untranslated region. These fragments were cloned into the pHANNIBAL vector (CSIRO Plant Industry, Victoria, Australia) in the sense direction with AvaI and KpnI and in the antisense direction using ClaI and BamHI. The resulting vector was cut with NotI and cloned into the NotI site of the pART27 binary vector (CSIRO Plant Industry). The resulting binary vector, pJW4, was transformed into the A. tumefaciens strain GV3101. Arabidopsis ecotype Col-0 was transformed with pJW4, and multiple homozygous, single locus insertion lines were identified by screening on plates containing kanamycin (30 mg/L). All mutant lines used in this study are Arabidopsis ecotype Col-0. The cry1-102 and cry1-103 alleles are described by CITATION, CITATION, and CITATION. The phyB-9 allele is described by CITATION. Double mutants were obtained by crossing and growing seeds on kanamycin-containing plates. F2 seeds were grown in the appropriate light conditions to identify homozygous photoreceptor mutants. Putative double mutants were confirmed in the F3 generation by growing on kanamycin-containing plates to identify lines homozygous for the OBP3-RNAi T-DNA. The photoreceptor mutations were confirmed by PCR analysis using the following primer pairs for each mutation: cry1-102, 5′-TCTCATCCCGGCATCGACCAAC-3′ and 5′-GGGGAAGAAAGCGTGAATCTTTTCCTGAATT-3′; cry1-103, 5′-AAGCTTCTTTGTTAAAGTGCTTCAATTACCATGGAG-3′, 5′-CGTATTCACCATTTGGATCAAACTTGTACCCTTC-3′, and 5′-TTGGTCTCCTGGATGGAGTAATGGTGATAAAG-3′; phyB-9, 5′-CAATGTAGCTAGTGGAAGAAGCTCGATGTGG-3′ and 5′-ACATAACAGTGTCTGCGTTCTCAAAACGC-3′. The cry1-102 PCR product was cut with EcoRI to distinguish between the wild-type and mutant alleles. The primers used to genotype the cry1-103 mutation amplify two products for the wild-type allele and one product for the mutant allele. The phyB-9 PCR product was cut with MnlI to distinguish between wild-type and mutant alleles. To measure hypocotyl length, 5-d-old seedlings were removed from plates and laid on acetate sheets. The seedlings were digitized with a flatbed scanner at a resolution of 600 dpi. Cotyledons were placed on transparent tape and digitized as above. The hypocotyls and cotyledons were measured using ImageJ 1.29J (National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD; http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/java1.3.1). All experiments were done in triplicate (n ≥ 30) on media with and without sucrose. The data reported is from experiments on media without sucrose. Five-day-old seedlings grown in continuous white light were used for epidermal imprints. Imprints were taken by coating the top of the cotyledon with clear fingernail polish. After drying, the polish was removed with transparent tape. The tape was fastened to a microscope slide, and the imprint was viewed and photographed at 200× using the Nikon Eclipse E600 microscope (Tokyo, Japan), QImaging Retiga Ex camera (Burnaby, BC, Canada), and OpenLab 3.1.4 software (Lexington, MA). At least six cotyledons from each of three replicate experiments were digitized. The area from between five and 10 epidermal cells from each cotyledon was measured using ImageJ 1.29J (National Institutes of Health).
