!~ABS~! While membrane transporters mediating ammonium uptake across the plasma membrane have been well described at the molecular level, little is known about compartmentation and cellular export of ammonium. (The term ammonium is used to denote both NH3 and NH4+ and chemical symbols are used when specificity is required.) We therefore developed a yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) complementation approach and isolated two Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) genes that conferred tolerance to the toxic ammonium analog methylammonium in yeast. Both genes, AtTIP2;1 and AtTIP2;3, encode aquaporins of the tonoplast intrinsic protein subfamily and transported methylammonium or ammonium in yeast preferentially at high medium pH. AtTIP2;1 expression in Xenopus oocytes increased 14C-methylammonium accumulation with increasing pH. AtTIP2;1- and AtTIP2;3-mediated methylammonium detoxification in yeast depended on a functional vacuole, which was in agreement with the subcellular localization of green fluorescent protein-fusion proteins on the tonoplast in planta. Transcript levels of both AtTIPs were influenced by nitrogen supply but did not follow those of the nitrogen-derepressed ammonium transporter gene AtAMT1;1. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing AtTIP2;1 did not show altered ammonium accumulation in roots after ammonium supply, although AtTIP2;1 mRNA levels in wild-type plants were up-regulated under these conditions. This study shows that AtTIP2;1 and AtTIP2;3 can mediate the extracytosolic transport of methyl-NH2 and NH3 across the tonoplast membrane and may thus participate in vacuolar ammonium compartmentation.
!~RES~! To isolate plant genes involved in ammonium export or compartmentation, a yeast complementation strategy was designed. To avoid that an enhanced ammonium assimilatory capacity might increase the tolerance of yeast against excess ammonium, ammonium was substituted by the toxic substrate analog methylammonium and supplied to the medium at pH 6.5. With increasing methylammonium concentrations, the yeast wild-type strain BY4741 transformed with the empty vector pDR195 showed severe growth depression and completely failed to grow at 125 mm methylammonium or above (Fig. 1 ). When the yeast wild-type strain 23344c, which does not require the additional supplement of His, Leu, and Met, was transformed with the empty vector pFL61 or pDR195, it was even more sensitive to methylammonium, resulting in a complete growth depression at 50 mm methylammonium (data not shown). Transformation of 23344c with a cDNA library from Arabidopsis seedlings (CITATION) and screening of approximately 400,000 transformants on 50 mm methylammonium allowed us to repeatedly isolate two cDNA clones, AtTIP2;1 (At3g16240) and AtTIP2;3 (At5g47450). AtTIP2;1 encodes a functional δ-TIP tonoplast-located water channel (CITATION) that also transports urea (CITATION). The gene product of AtTIP2;3 is 76% identical to AtTIP2;1 and has not yet been functionally characterized. The exclusive isolation of TIPs suggested that most efficient detoxification of methylammonium by expression of plant genes in yeast is conferred by methylammonium export out of the cytoplasm to the apoplasm or into the vacuole. [[FIGURE]] To investigate the contribution of the vacuole to methylammonium detoxification in yeast, the vacuole-defective yeast mutant pep5 was used. While growth of wild-type yeast hardly showed any growth depression at methylammonium concentrations below 20 mm, growth of pep5 ceased dramatically above 5 mm methylammonium, suggesting that the vacuole increases the capacity for methylammonium detoxification in yeast (Figs. 1 and 2 ). Transformation of pep5 with AtTIP2;1 or AtTIP2;3 did not influence yeast growth relative to transformants with the control vector in the absence of methylammonium. Under supply of 10 to 15 mm methylammonium, however, expression of AtTIPs could not improve methylammonium tolerance in yeast, as it was observed in wild-type yeast (Fig. 1), irrespective of whether cells were grown at pH 6.5 (Fig. 2) or at pH 5.5 (data not shown). This observation supported the notion that both proteins should exert their major function in conferring methylammonium tolerance at the tonoplast. [[FIGURE]] It has been pointed out that heterologous expression of plant membrane proteins in yeast might bear the risk of a mislocalization of the gene product (CITATION). We tried to take advantage of AtTIP2;1 and AtTIP2;3 gene products that might have been targeted accidentally to the plasma membrane in yeast by assaying their contribution to pH-dependent uptake of external ammonium. Expression of AtTIP2;1 and AtTIP2;3 in the ammonium uptake-defective yeast strain 31019b, which grows poorly on low ammonium concentrations as a sole nitrogen source, allowed growth complementation even at 1 mm external ammonium, indicating that both AtTIPs conferred substrate transport across the plasma membrane. Growth complementation, however, was observed only at pH 6.5 or 7.5 (Fig. 3 ). At higher ammonium supply, AtTIP expression further accelerated yeast growth, and growth complementation always increased with pH. Yeast cells transformed with the empty vector also showed better growth at high pH but always lagged behind that of AtTIP-transformed cells. By contrast, ammonium transporter AtAMT1;1-mediated growth complementation was not affected by pH. This experiment suggested that ammonium uptake by both AtTIP proteins mechanistically differs from that of AtAMT1;1 and occurs in the form of NH3. [[FIGURE]] As an independent approach to verify transport of methylammonium, AtTIP2;1 was expressed in oocytes, and uptake of 14C-labeled methylammonium was measured in dependence of solution pH. Methylammonium uptake into water-injected oocytes, similar to yeast, increased with increasing pH and a concomitantly increased formation of methyl-NH2 (Fig. 4 ). At all pH values tested, oocytes expressing AtTIP2;1 showed a higher capacity for methylammonium transport, and this transport capacity further increased with pH. Since the concentration of methyl-NH2, but not of methyl-NH3+, increased by a factor of 10 with each pH unit (Fig. 4), AtTIP2;1-mediated substrate transport increased with the availability of the uncharged nitrogen form. Heterologous expression of AtTIP2;1 and AtTIP2;3 in both yeast and oocytes thus indicated that besides water and urea, NH3 and methyl-NH2 are novel substrates transported by TIPs. [[FIGURE]] Transient expression of AtTIP2;1-GFP fusions in Arabidopsis protoplasts yielded strongest fluorescence at the tonoplast and in small vesicular structures that were released after osmotic shock (CITATION). A recent study employing stably overexpressed AtTIP2;1-GFP confirmed tonoplast localization of AtTIP2;1 (CITATION). We thus generated transgenic plants for stable expression of AtTIP2;3-enhanced GFP (EGFP) under control of a cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter and investigated fluorescence by microscopy. AtTIP2;3-dependent fluorescence appeared in roots as well as in shoot organs but was best visible in rhizodermal cells. AtTIP2;3-EGFP clearly localized on the tonoplast, which has been exemplified by fluorescence around a nucleus (Fig. 5 ). Thus, AtTIP2;1 and AtTIP2:3 are both primarily localized on the tonoplast in Arabidopsis roots. [[FIGURE]] Gene expression of AtTIP2;1 and AtTIP2;3 in roots was subjected to a strong diurnal regulation (Fig. 6A ). mRNA levels of both genes increased after onset of light, peaked approximately at midday, and declined to lowest levels already before offset of light. Such a distinct diurnal regulation is typical for root transporter genes, like those encoding AMT transporters (Fig. 6A; CITATION), that are coregulated by photoassimilates or related metabolites from the shoots (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Subjecting hydroponically-grown Arabidopsis plants to nitrogen starvation initially decreased root transcript levels of AtTIP2;3 (Fig. 6B). AtTIP2;1 transcript levels oscillated during the experimental period, but for both AtTIP2;1 and AtTIP2;3 no monophasic response to nitrogen deficiency was observed. This pattern of gene expression was in agreement with the northern analysis of AtTIP2;1 in CITATION but clearly different from the pattern observed for the nitrogen-repressed ammonium transporter gene AtAMT1;1, for which mRNA levels continuously increased with nitrogen deficiency. The oscillating changes in AtTIP2;1 and AtTIP2;3 mRNA levels upon nitrogen starvation may also have been due to other regulatory factors, such as small changes in the osmotic potential of the roots. The distinct regulation from AtAMT1;1 suggested that induction or derepression of AtTIP2;1 and AtTIP2;3 is not a part of the nitrogen-deficiency response in Arabidopsis roots. In general, gene expression of major intrinsic proteins (MIPs) can be dramatically influenced by the water status of the plant, and ammonium, but in particular nitrate, resupply might lead to a rapid change in root water uptake or in the hydraulic conductivity of roots due to their osmotic action besides their function as a nitrogen source. Moreover, the transfer of plants from nitrogen deficiency to exclusive supply of ammonium or nitrate is also accompanied by secondary effects, such as decreased transpiration rates and xylem loading of cytokinins under ammonium supply (CITATION; CITATION). To suppress secondary effects while verifying a dependence of AtTIP gene expression on ammonium supply, plants were transferred from 5 mm nitrate to 4 mm nitrate plus 1 mm ammonium. Under these conditions AtTIP2;1 and AtTIP2;3 clearly responded to ammonium supply by a dramatic increase in transcript levels within 24 h (Fig. 7A ). Since this expression pattern might indicate a role in ammonium loading into the vacuole, we simultaneously determined changes in ammonium concentrations in the roots and found that they increased rapidly after plant transfer to ammonium, peaked after 3 h, and then slightly declined (Fig. 7B). In particular AtTIP2;1 transcript levels increased in parallel to ammonium concentrations in the root tissue until ammonium concentrations reached their maximal level. Again, this regulation differed to that of AtAMT1;1 and indicated that AtTIP2;1, and probably also AtTIP2;3, may participate in vacuolar compartmentation and detoxification of ammonium. [[FIGURE]] To verify an involvement of AtTIP2;1 in vacuolar NH3 loading in Arabidopsis roots, AtTIP2;1 was overexpressed under the control of a CaMV 35S promoter in Arabidopsis plants. Four homozygous lines were selected that showed dramatically increased expression levels in the roots relative to the wild type (Fig. 8A ). When grown under adequate supply of nutrients or under nitrogen deficiency in nutrient solution, transgenic plants did not show any visible phenotype. Moreover, AtTIP2;1-overexpressing lines were not more tolerant to methylammonium at pH 6 when grown on agar (data not shown). We therefore investigated whether the overexpression of AtTIP2;1 might increase ammonium accumulation in roots under conditions of ammonium induction of nitrate-fed plants. Ammonium concentrations in roots of AtTIP2;1 overexpressors, however, were not different from those of wild-type plants either under nitrate nutrition, after supply of 1 mm ammonium for 3 h (Fig. 8B), or for longer and shorter periods (data not shown). Since ammonium accumulation in the root tissue was rapid, ammonium transport across the plasma membrane was unlikely to represent a limiting step for subsequent vacuolar compartmentation, irrespective of whether uptake was mediated by transporters with high affinity, such as AtAMTs, or by transporters with low affinity, which are not yet identified. Thus, under these conditions, constitutive overexpression could not demonstrate an involvement of AtTIP2;1 in methylammonium detoxification or in ammonium accumulation in roots. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The ura− yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) wild-type strain 23344c (CITATION) was transformed with a cDNA library from Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) seedlings (CITATION) and directly selected on solid yeast nitrogen base (YNB) medium supplemented with 2% Glc, 0.1% Pro, 50 mm methylammonium, buffered at pH 6.5 by 5 mm MES-Tris. Open reading frames (ORFs) of the isolated cDNAs AtTIP2;1 (At3g16240) and AtTIP2;3 (At5g47450) were amplified by PCR using Pfu Turbo DNA polymerase (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA). PCR products were A-tailed with Taq-polymerase, ligated into the pGEM-T Easy vector (Promega, Madison, WI), and subcloned into the yeast expression vector pDR195 (CITATION) using NotI sites and reintroduced into the wild-type yeast strain. For growth complementation, the yeast strains pep5 Y00817 (BY4741; Mat a; his3Δ1; leu2Δ0; met15Δ0; ura3Δ0; YMR231w::kanMX4), its isogenic wild-type BY4741 (Mat a; his3Δ1; leu2Δ0; met15Δ0; ura3Δ0), both from Euroscarf (http://www.uni-frankfurt.de/fb15/mikro/euroscarf/), and the triple mep deletion strain 31019b (Δmep1;2;3; CITATION) were used. The complementation assays on methylammonium were performed on solid YNB medium (minimal yeast medium without nitrogen) supplemented with 3% Glc, 0.1% Pro, and different amounts of methylammonium, buffered at pH 6.5 by 50 mm MES-Tris. The pH-dependent growth complementation on ammonium was conducted on solid YNB medium supplemented with 3% Glc, 1, 3, 5, or 10 mm ammonium chloride, 100 mm potassium chloride and buffered at different pH by 50 mm MES-Tris. The ORF of AtTIP2;1 was subcloned from the pGEM-T Easy vector using EcoRI cutting sites into the oocyte expression vector pOO2 (CITATION). Capped cRNA was transcribed from pOO2-AtTIP2;1 in vitro using the mMessage kit (Ambion, Austin, TX) after linearization with MluI, respectively. Xenopus laevis oocytes were removed from adult female frogs by surgery and manually dissected. Oocytes (Dumont stage V or VI) were defolliculated using 10 mg mL−1 collagenase (Boehringer, Mannheim, Germany) and trypsin inhibitor (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis) for 1 h and injected with ≈5 nL of cRNA (5 ng per oocyte). Oocytes were kept after injection for 3 d at 16°C in ND96 solution of the following composition: 96 mm NaCl, 2 mm KCl, 1.8 mm CaCl2, 1 mm MgCl2, 5 mm 2-HEPES, supplemented with 2.5 mm sodium pyruvate and 20 μg mL−1 gentamycin, pH 7.4. Standard bath solutions were used for uptake experiments. Oocytes were pooled in groups of four and incubated for 20 min at room temperature in 500 μL of the appropriate buffer containing 100 μm methylammonium labeled with 10% 14C-labeled methylammonium (specific activity of 57 mCi/mmol; Amersham, Buckinghamshire, UK). Then, oocytes were washed carefully five times in 1 mL of ice-cold buffer with 100-fold excess of cold methylammonium and solubilized in 5% SDS. After the addition of 5 mL scintillation cocktail (Ultima Gold; Zinsser Analytic, Frankfurt), radioactivity was determined in a scintillation counter (Perkin-Elmer, Boston). The ORF of AtTIP2;3 was amplified without stop codon using Pfu turbo polymerase. A NcoI site was inserted in the reverse primer to ligate in-frame AtTIP2;3 with the EGFP coding sequence. The DNA coding sequence of AtTIP2;3-EGFP was sequenced and subcloned into the pPPT-kan vector kindly provided by Dr. Karin Schumacher (Zentrum für Molekularbiologie der Pflanzen, Tuebingen, Germany) to generate 35S-AtTIP2;3-EGFP. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants (ecotype Columbia-0) were generated by floral dipping according to CITATION using Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101. Independent kanamycin-resistant plants (T0) were isolated and amplified. Localization experiments were conducted with homozygote T2 plants using an inverted fluorescence microscope (Zeiss Axiovert 200M; Jena, Germany). Using an EcoRI restriction site, the ORF of AtTIP2;1 in pGEM-T Easy was subcloned into pGreen0029 (CITATION) containing a p35CaMV-mcs-tCaMV cassette to generate 35S-AtTIP2;1. Independent Basta-resistant lines (T0) were isolated and amplified. Experiments were conducted with homozygote T2 plants. Arabidopsis seeds (ecotype Columbia-0) were germinated in the dark for 4 d and precultured on rockwool moistened with tap water. After 1 week, tap water was substituted by full nutrient solution containing 1 mm KH2PO4, 1 mm MgSO4, 250 μm K2SO4, 250 μm CaCl2, 100 μm Na-Fe-EDTA, 50 μm KCl, 50 μm H3BO3, 5 μm MnSO4, 1 μm ZnSO4, 1 μm CuSO4, and 0.7 μmm NaMoO4, pH adjusted to 6.0 by KOH. Nitrogen was supplied as NH4NO3, NH4Cl, or KNO3. The nutrient solution was renewed once a week during the first 3 weeks, twice in the 4th week, and every 2 d for the following weeks. Plants were grown hydroponically under nonsterile conditions in a growth cabinet under the following conditions: 10/14 h light/dark; light intensity 280 μmol m−2 s−1; temperature 22°C/18°C; and 70% humidity. If not indicated otherwise, plants of the same age were harvested at the same time of day (usually 5 h after onset of light). Total RNA was isolated by phenol-guanidine extraction followed by lithium chloride precipitation according to CITATION. RNA (20 μg per lane) was resolved by electrophoresis on MOPS-formaldehyde agarose gels, blotted onto Hybond-N+ nylon membranes (Amersham), and cross-linked to the membrane by incubation at 80°C for 2 h. The ORFs of AtTIP2;1, AtTIP2;3, and AtAMT1;1 were used as a probe for hybridization to total RNA. Hybridization to a randomly primed 32P-radiolabeled probe was performed at 42°C in 50% (v/v) formamide, 1% (w/v) sarkosyl, 5× SSC, and 100 μg mL−1 yeast t-RNA. Membranes were washed repeatedly in 2× SSC, 0.1% (w/v) SDS and finally in 0.2× SSC, 0.1% (w/v) SDS at 42°C for 40 min. Ethidium bromide-stained gels were used as RNA loading control. Before harvest, roots were rinsed in 1 mm CaSO4 solution for 1 min. Root and shoot organs of each plant were separated, immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen, and stored at −70°C before freeze drying. Each sample (25–50 mg) was ground and homogenized with 1 mL of cold 10 mm formic acid solution. After centrifugation at 13,000g, the liquid phase was transferred to a new Eppendorf tube and kept on ice. Ammonium concentrations were determined by fluorescence spectroscopy at neutral pH (CITATION). Thirty microliters of the formic acid extract were mixed with cold orthophthaldehyde buffer solution (3 mm o-phthalaldehyde, 10 mm β-mercaptoethanol, and 100 mm potassium phosphate buffer, pH 6.8), incubated at 80°C for 15 min, and immediately cooled down on ice. The fluorescence was measured at 470 nm with an excitation at 410 nm using a fluorescence spectrophotometer (F2000 Hitachi, Tokyo, Japan).
