!~ABS~! The higher-plant shoot apical meristem is a dynamic structure continuously producing cells that become incorporated into new leaves, stems and flowers. The maintenance of a constant flow of cells through the meristem depends on coordination of two antagonistic processes: self-renewal of the stem cell population and initiation of the lateral organs. This coordination is stringently controlled by gene networks that contain both positive and negative components. We have previously defined the ULTRAPETALA1 (ULT1) gene as a key negative regulator of cell accumulation in Arabidopsis shoot and floral meristems, because mutations in ULT1 cause the enlargement of inflorescence and floral meristems, the production of supernumerary flowers and floral organs, and a delay in floral meristem termination. Here, we show that ULT1 negatively regulates the size of the WUSCHEL (WUS)-expressing organizing center in inflorescence meristems. We have cloned the ULT1 gene and find that it encodes a small protein containing a B-box-like motif and a SAND domain, a DNA-binding motif previously reported only in animal transcription factors. ULT1 and its Arabidopsis paralog ULT2 define a novel small gene family in plants. ULT1 and ULT2 are expressed coordinately in embryonic shoot apical meristems, in inflorescence and floral meristems, and in developing stamens, carpels and ovules. Additionally, ULT1 is expressed in vegetative meristems and leaf primordia. ULT2 protein can compensate for mutant ULT1 protein when overexpressed in an ult1 background, indicating that the two genes may regulate a common set of targets during plant development. Downregulation of both ULT genes can lead to shoot apical meristem arrest shortly after germination, revealing a requirement for ULT activity in early development.
!~RES~! Previous analysis of the EMS-induced ult1-1 and ult1-2 alleles revealed an increase in inflorescence and floral meristem size, leading to the production of supernumerary flowers and floral organs (CITATION) (Fig. 1A-C). To determine the molecular basis of the ult1 meristem enlargement, we performed in situ experiments to analyze the expression pattern of STM as a marker for inflorescence meristem fate. STM is expressed throughout wild-type inflorescence and floral meristems (CITATION; CITATION), and is absent from the flanking region that corresponds to the incipient flower and floral organ primordia (Fig. 1E). We did not detect any major changes in the overall pattern of STM expression in ult1-1 and ult1-2 inflorescence meristems. STM expression is visible in the central part of the inflorescence and floral meristems and absent from the peripheral region. However, the domain expressing STM is more extensive in ult1 mutant meristems than in wild-type meristems (Fig. 1E-G). This result shows that the supernumerary cells present in ult1 mutant meristems (CITATION) correspond to meristem cells rather than to lateral organ primordia cells.   [[FIGURE]] To determine whether the ult1 meristem enlargement occurs uniformly across the shoot apex or is confined to one area, we examined the expression patterns of molecular markers for specific meristematic regions in ult1 inflorescences. We have previously reported that the CLV1 expression domain, which corresponds to the most central L3 cells of the SAM, is significantly broader in ult1-1 inflorescence meristems than in wild type (CITATION). This result suggested a function for ULT1 in restricting cell accumulation in the interior, central region of the meristem. By contrast, the CLV3 expression pattern in the L1 and L2 layers of the central zone appeared to be unchanged in ult1-1 meristems (CITATION), either because the CLV3 expression domain is not affected by the mutation, or because its enlargement across such a small group of cells is too slight to be noticed by in situ hybridization. The WUS gene is expressed in the interior, deeper layers of shoot and floral meristems, overlapping the CLV1 expression domain (Fig. 1I) (CITATION). Mutations in ULT1 result in the lateral expansion of the WUS expression domain, without altering its layer specificity (Fig. 1J-K). Counting of WUS-expressing cells confirmed that the organizing center is significantly larger in ult1-1 and ult1-2 meristems than in wild-type meristems (Fig. 1P). In wild-type inflorescence meristems, the mean size of the WUS-expressing domain corresponds to 6.12±0.33 cells in width, 3±0 cells in height and 14.75±0.97 cells in total. In ult1-1 inflorescence central sections the WUS domain expands to 8.50±1 cells in width, 3.12±0.33 cells in height, and 21.12±2.80 cells in total, while in ult1-2 inflorescence central sections the WUS domain is 7.75±0.66 cells in width, 3±0 cells in height and 18±1.66 cells in total. This result shows that the size of the WUS-expressing organizing center is negatively regulated by ULT1 activity. As ult1-1 plants have larger inflorescence and floral meristems than do ult1-2 plants and produce more floral meristems and floral organs (CITATION), our results suggest that the size of the WUS-expressing organizing center may directly affect these traits. Finally, we used a pSTM::uidA (CITATION) reporter line as a marker to examine the size of the peripheral zone of the meristem in wild-type and ult1 plants. This reporter construct does not recapitulate the STM expression pattern in the meristem; instead, it is expressed at the boundary between the proper inflorescence meristem and the incipient floral primordia (Fig. 1M). The pSTM::uidA expression pattern is unaltered in ult1 inflorescences, indicating that the peripheral region of the mutant meristems is not significantly enlarged (Fig. 1N-O). Altogether, our expression analyses indicate that ULT1 restricts the lateral expansion of CLV1- and WUS- expressing cells in the interior of inflorescence and floral meristems. To isolate the ULT1 gene, we used CAPS-based mapping (CITATION) of recombination breakpoints in 1366 meiotic events among the F2 progeny of ult1-2 (Ler) × wild type (Col-O). We had previously shown that the ult1 mutations mapped between the visible markers ag and ap2 on chromosome 4 (CITATION). Using the CAPS markers throughout this interval, we established that ult1-2 was flanked by markers PG11 and g8300 (www.arabidopsis.org). Thirty-one plants with recombination events between PG11 and g8300 were identified from the mapping population, and used to refine the position of the ult1-2 recombination breakpoints to the ends of BAC F26K10. We sequenced candidate genes annotated on the BAC and identified a single gene (At4g28190) that was mutated in both ult1 alleles. To confirm the identity of At4g28190 as the ULT1 gene, a genomic clone (ULT1-214) containing the At4g28190 coding region along with 1 kb of upstream and 0.5 kb of downstream sequence was introduced into ult1-1 plants, and this clone partially or fully complemented the mutant phenotypes (Fig. 1H). T1 and T2 ult1-1 plants transformed with the ULT1-214 genomic construct produced meristems and flowers similar to those of wild-type plants. In addition, ult1-1 plants carrying the ULT1-214 transgene flowered at the same time as did wild-type plants, while untransformed ult1-1 plants flowered 1 week later on average (CITATION). These data confirm that At4g28190 encodes the ULT1 gene. The complete ULT1-coding region was determined by EST and cDNA analysis, RT-PCR and 5′RACE. This region is 714 bp in length, and consists of three exons and two introns (Fig. 2A), encoding a predicted protein of 237 amino acids with a mass of 26.7 kDa. Genomic sequence analysis indicated the presence of a TATA box, a CCAAT box and a GC box, as well as an in frame stop codon upstream of the transcription start site. Ceres cDNA 96705 (www.arabidopsis.org) and the sequencing of RT-PCR products support the annotation of this gene. We have identified a missense mutation in the second exon of this gene in the ult1-1 and the ult1-2 alleles (Fig. 2A). The ult1-1 mutation is caused by a G to A transition that changes a cysteine residue to a threonine residue at position 173 relative to the translational initiation site (Fig. 2B). The ult1-2 mutation is due to a C to T transition that replaces a serine residue with a phenylalanine residue at position 83.   [[FIGURE]] Database searches revealed the presence of a sequence on Arabidopsis chromosome 2 that is highly similar to ULT1 at the nucleotide level. This paralogous gene, At2g20825, consists of two exons and a single intron. Because overexpression of this gene can rescue the ult1-1 mutant phenotype (see below), we refer to this locus as ULT2. Conceptual translation of ULT2 gives a putative protein of 226 amino acids (26.1 kDa) with 81% identity and 86% similarity to ULT1 over the full-length of the proteins (Fig. 2B). Twenty-one of the 23 cysteine residues present in ULT1, including C173 which is mutated in the ult1-1 allele, are conserved in the ULT2 protein. The serine residue (S83) that is mutated in the ult1-2 allele is also conserved in ULT2. Notably, ULT1 contains five amino acids at the N terminus (residues 2-5) and six amino acids in the middle of the protein (residues 121-126) that are not present in the putative ULT2 protein. We have identified sequences corresponding to ULT1- and ULT2-like genes in a number of other plant species, including tomato, maize, cotton, rice, soybean and wheat. So far, only a single ULT-like gene has been identified in these species, compared with two in Arabidopsis. An amino acid alignment of the putative ULT-like proteins for which full-length or nearly full-length genomic and/or EST sequences are available, is shown in Fig. 2B. The overall identity between the proteins ranges from 59% to 72% across the length of the protein. No functions have yet been assigned to any of these ULT-like proteins. The ult1-1 and ult1-2 mutations both occur in amino acids that are invariant among all nine of the plant species examined, suggesting that these residues are crucial for protein function. Two domains can be recognized in the ULT1 and ULT2 protein sequences that have been found in transcription factors. The Prosite program (pit.georgetown.edu) revealed a significant structural homology between the N-terminal region of the ULT proteins (Fig. 2B) and a conserved SAND domain found in animal proteins. The SAND domain is an evolutionarily conserved ∼80-100 amino acid DNA-binding motif that takes its name from the Sp100, AIRE-1, NucP41/75 and DEAF-1/suppressin proteins found in humans and Drosophila melanogaster (CITATION). The ULT1 and ULT2 proteins, as well as the other ULT-like plant sequences, share∼ 75% identity within the SAND domain (Fig. 2C). The three-dimensional structures of several SAND domains have been determined by NMR and x-ray crystallography (CITATION; CITATION). The SAND domain is a compact, strongly twisted α/β fold consisting of five antiparallel β-sheets alternating with four α-helices (Fig. 2C). However, the primary sequence of the SAND domain is poorly conserved between family members. The highest degree of amino acid conservation is found between two otherwise unrelated proteins from C. elegans, CeC25G4.4 and CeC44F1.2, which share 57% identity within the SAND domain. Most of the animal proteins share less than 30% identity within the SAND domain, and the pair-wise comparison score can be as low as 7% identity, as shown for the human AIRE-1 and GMEB1/2 proteins. Thus, the similarity between animal SAND domains instead resides at the secondary and consequent tertiary structure level. Similarly, the major conservation of the ULT SAND domains is at the level of the secondary structure: The PsiPred program (CITATION) predicts the β1, β2, β3 and β5 strands, as well as the α2 and α4 helices in the ULT proteins (Fig. 2C). The program did not detect the α1 and α3 helices or the β4 sheet, probably because of their extremely small size. Only two conserved cores are highlighted by multiple alignment of the SAND domains, the TPxxFE and the KDWK motifs (Fig. 2C). The TPxxFE motif is perfectly conserved among all the putative ULT-like proteins in plants (Fig. 2B,C). The KDWK core is not conserved in ULT1 and ULT2 nor in the mouse and human AIRE-1 proteins at the primary sequence level, but the secondary structure is conserved. The ult1-2 mutation, which causes a null mutant phenotype (see below), lies within the α2 helix of the SAND domain (Fig. 2B,C). The ULT1 and ULT2 proteins are highly cysteine rich, with cysteine residues accounting for 9.7% of the total amino acid content of each protein (Fig. 2B). One particular arrangement of cysteine residues near the C terminus of the ULT1 and ULT2 proteins is highly similar to that of a B-box motif found in many eukaryotes (Fig. 2D). In these organisms, the B-box domain has been proposed to function in protein-protein and in protein-RNA interactions (CITATION; CITATION). B-box domains are associated with cysteine-rich zinc-binding motifs in otherwise unrelated proteins, many of them transcription factors, that participate in a wide range of cellular processes (CITATION; CITATION). The putative B-box region is more highly conserved between ULT1 and the homologous sequences than the rest of the protein (Fig. 2B). In animals, SAND domain-containing proteins are found in the nucleus, in the cytoplasm, or in both compartments (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Similarly, eukaryotic proteins containing B-box domains have been localized to either the nucleus or the cytosol (CITATION; CITATION). The computer programs Prosite (CITATION; CITATION), PSORT (CITATION), SignalP (CITATION), and NLSdb (CITATION) each predict the ULT1 and ULT2 proteins to be localized to the cytosol, based on the absence of any sorting or signal peptide. However, both ULT proteins are small enough to diffuse passively into the nucleus through the nuclear pores (CITATION). Subcellular localization experiments using enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) as a marker showed that ULT1-EGFP and ULT2-EGFP fusion constructs transiently transformed into onion epidermal cells are localized in both the nucleus and the cytosolic compartments (Fig. 3A).   [[FIGURE]] To determine the relevance of this localization pattern in vivo, we generated transgenic ult1-1 plants stably expressing either the ULT1-EGFP or ULT2-EGFP fusion protein under the control of the 35S promoter. Transgenic plants that expressed the ULT1 or ULT2 protein with the EGFP moiety attached to either the N terminus or the C terminus had a wild-type appearance, indicating that the fusion proteins are functional in either orientation and can rescue the ult1-1 mutant phenotypes. Visualizing the ULT1-EGFP or ULT2-EGFP fusion proteins in the roots or petals of the transgenic plants, we observed signal in both the nucleus and the cytosol (Fig. 3B-D). Immunoblotting of extracts from the transgenic plant using an anti-GFP antibody showed that the observed localization pattern is not an artifact due to the cleavage of the fusion protein (Fig. 3E). The same ULT-EGFP fusion proteins in combination with a nuclear localization signal (NLS) or a nuclear export signal (NES) also complement the mutant phenotype when expressed in an ult1-1 background (data not shown). However, as the ULT-EGFP fusion proteins are still smaller than the nuclear pore exclusion size they may enter or exit the nucleus passively, especially when expressed at high levels under the 35S promoter. To prevent passive entry into or exit from the nucleus, we fused each ULT protein to a combined GUS (β-glucuronidase)-EGFP protein (CITATION). When bombarded into onion epidermal cells, the constructs gave a GFP and a GUS signal primarily in the cytosol for some cells and equivalently in the cytosol and the nucleus for others (Fig. 3F,G). Thus, the ULT1 and ULT2 proteins have a dual localization in the nucleus and in the cytosol, and may function in both compartments. We used RT-PCR to determine the distribution of ULT1 and ULT2 mRNA transcripts in wild-type tissues. As shown in Fig. 4, ULT1 transcripts could be amplified from all tissues tested: roots, 8-day-old seedlings, mature leaves, stems, inflorescences, pollen and siliques. ULT2 expression was specific to the reproductive developmental stage, being detected only in inflorescences, pollen and siliques. For both genes, the highest level of expression was observed in inflorescence tissues.   [[FIGURE]] We then performed in situ hybridization experiments to localize the ULT1 and ULT2 mRNAs more precisely in the tissues where they could be detected by RT-PCR. ULT1 and ULT2 transcripts can be detected throughout the inflorescence meristem, and a weak signal can also be detected in the inflorescence vascular tissues (Fig. 5A,B). Neither ULT1 nor ULT2 transcripts are detectable in stage 1 flower meristems budding from the flanks of the inflorescence meristem, but they reappear much stronger in late stage 2 primordia. As soon as the sepal primordia initiate (stage 3), ULT1 and ULT2 expression is excluded from these organ primordia and becomes restricted to the floral meristem (Fig. 5B). As flower development continues, ULT1 and ULT2 transcripts become further restricted to stamen and carpel primordia (Fig. 5D-G). Expression in carpels was detected only in the adaxial domain, corresponding to the region of ovule formation. Hybridization to cross-sections of mature flowers reveals specific signal throughout the ovules and in the tapetum tissue of the anthers (Fig. 5H-I). Thus, the ULT1 and ULT2 mRNA expression patterns are coincident in inflorescence meristems, floral meristems and developing flowers.   [[FIGURE]] Next, we determined the expression patterns of both genes in seedlings and embryos. ULT1 is expressed throughout the vegetative SAM and in young leaf primordia (Fig. 6A). A stronger ULT1 signal is detected on the adaxial side of the leaf primordia, as observed for the carpel primordia. The antisense ULT2 mRNA probe did not hybridize to seedling tissues (Fig. 6B), confirming that ULT1 but not ULT2 is expressed during the vegetative stage. In mature embryos, both ULT1 and ULT2 transcripts are detected in the SAM, and ULT2 expression is also observed in the RAM (Fig. 6D-G). The expression is detected in very restricted domains corresponding to meristematic cells localized at the apices. Interestingly, in all earlier analyzed stages - from the eight-cell stage to the bending cotyledon stage - ULT1 and ULT2 transcripts are localized throughout the embryo, occasionally displaying a stronger signal between the developing cotyledons and in the vasculature (Fig. 6J-P). This suggests that ULT expression becomes tissue-restricted only at the time when the embryo enters the maturation phase of development. No signal was detected in the suspensor or in the endosperm at any stage (Fig. 6J-P), showing that ULT1 and ULT2 gene expression is embryo specific.   [[FIGURE]] Because the ULT1 and ULT2 gene expression patterns overlap in inflorescence and floral meristems, we asked if ULT2 could mimic ULT1 function in these tissues. We transformed a d35S::ULT2 sense construct into ult1-1 plants, in order to increase the level of ULT2 expression in this mutant background. We analyzed the capacity of the d35S::ULT2 transgene to rescue the ult1-1 phenotypes, and compared its effects with those of a d35S::ULT1 transgene, by scoring floral organ number and flowering time. Transgenic d35S::ULT plants display a gradient of phenotypes that correlates with the level of ULT gene overexpression. Those plants expressing the highest levels of ULT1 or ULT2 show dramatic vegetative phenotypes as soon as a few days after germination (C.C.C. and J.C.F., unpublished). Consequently, we performed the complementation analysis on d35S::ULT2 ult1-1 lines that had a wild-type appearance at the vegetative stage. As expected, RT-PCR experiments showed that these lines display a more moderate increase in ULT2 gene expression than the dramatically affected overexpression lines (data not shown). By analyzing these moderate overexpression lines, we found that the d35S::ULT2 transgene complements the ult1-1 mutant phenotypes to the same extent as the d35S::ULT1 transgene (Fig. 7). Indeed, ult1-1 plants containing either of these constructs display floral organ number and bolting time phenotypes close to those of the wild type. Thus, although the endogenous level of ULT2 is not sufficient to overcome the effect of the ult1-1 mutation, an increase in the amount of wild-type ULT2 protein in the ult1-1 background allows complete rescue of the ult1-1 mutant phenotypes. These data indicate that, when expressed at higher levels, wild-type ULT2 protein can functionally compensate for mutant ULT1-1 protein.   [[FIGURE]] In order to examine the full spectrum of biological functions for ULT1 and ULT2, we have obtained an insertion allele of each gene. The ult1-3 allele contains a T-DNA insertion in the first exon of ULT1, 155 bp after the start codon (Fig. 2B). RT-PCR experiments show that ult1-3 plants do not accumulate ULT1 transcripts (Fig. 8A) and place the ult1-3 allele as a null allele. The inflorescence and flower phenotypes of plants carrying the ult1-3 mutation are indistinguishable from those of ult1-2 plants (Fig. 1C,D, Fig. 8B), indicating that the ult1-2 EMS line is a phenotypic null allele probably because of the lack of functional ULT1 protein. WUS molecular marker analysis confirms that the ult1-3 allele phenocopies the ult1-2 allele (Fig. 1K,L). In ult1-3 inflorescences, the mean organizing center size is 7.62±0.48 cells in width, 3.12±0.33 cells in height, and 18±1.22 cells in total. These values are not significantly different from ult1-2 (Fig. 1P). Surprisingly, the ult1-1 EMS mutation has a more severe effect on inflorescence meristem size, WUS domain expansion and floral organ number than either the ult1-2 or the ult1-3 null mutations (Fig. 1B-D,J-L,P; Fig. 8B). In addition, ult1-2 and ult1-3 mutant plants flower only two days later than the wild type (Fig. 8C), whereas ult1-1 plants are more dramatically affected, flowering up to 2 weeks later than wild-type plants.   [[FIGURE]] The ult2-1 allele contains a T-DNA insertion in the intron of ULT2, 408 bp after the start codon. Because a weak band corresponding to correctly-spliced ULT2 cDNA could be amplified from inflorescence tissues from some homozygous mutant individuals after 45 cycles of RT-PCR, we cannot conclude that ult2-1 is a null allele (Fig. 8A). ult2-1 mutant plants do not display any inflorescence or flower phenotypes, and are indistinguishable from wild-type plants (data not shown). Determining whether the presence of ULT2 protein is required for proper reproductive meristem activity will rely on the identification and analysis of a true null allele for the ULT2 locus. Because the ult1-1 mutant phenotype is more dramatic than that of the ult1-3 null mutant, we analyzed the effect of the ult1-1 mutation in the heterozygote state. ult1-1 behaves as a slight semi-dominant allele when heterozygous: of 18 ult1-1/+ plants scored, five had five sepals and/or petals in the first one or two flowers and one had six petals in the first flower. All ult1-1/+ plants are wild type with respect to stamen and carpel number and floral determinacy, indicating that the ult1-1 mutation is recessive with respect to these traits. To test whether the semi-dominant effect of the ULT1-1 mutant protein is altered in the absence of wild-type ULT1 protein, we compared the floral organ number and flowering time phenotypes of ult1-1/+ plants with those of ult1-1/ult1-3 plants. We found that ult1-1/ult1-3 plants are more severely affected than either ult1-3 homozygous plants or ult1-1/+ heterozygous plants with respect to sepal/petal number and also flowering time (Fig. 8D,E). Thus, eliminating wild-type ULT1 protein enhances the effects of the ult1-1 mutation on flowering time and on floral organ number in the outer two whorls. Antisense plants carrying a d35S::ULT1 AS construct generated in the Ler wild-type background show a dramatic reduction in the level of both ULT1 and ULT2 transcripts (Fig. 9A). Some plants from the antisense lines fail to germinate (data not shown), while the rest display a range of shoot and floral meristem defects (Fig. 9B-I).   [[FIGURE]] The most strongly affected plants have severely disorganized SAMs that resemble those of fas1 or fas2 plants (CITATION; CITATION), with highly aberrant lateral organ initiation (Fig. 9B). Although Ler wild-type seedlings develop four true leaves after 7 days of development, ULT AS seedlings have formed only two cotyledons (class 1), two barely developed filamentous leaves (class 2) or two to three stunted leaves (class 3) after 14 days of development (Fig. 9B, first row). The wild-type SAM is a dome-shaped structure that produces lateral organs in a regular phyllotaxy, but no meristematic structure can be detected between the two cotyledons of class 1 ULT AS plants (arrowhead). Class 2 plants initiate leaf primordia at a greatly reduced rate and their SAMs are very small and flat (asterisk), while class 3 plants produce small leaf primordia (arrowheads) around a reduced SAM composed of few enlarged cells (Fig. 9B, second row). Comparison of sections through 7-day-old Ler and 14-day-old ULT AS seedlings (Fig. 9B, third row) shows that class 1 and class 2 AS seedlings lack more than a few meristematic cells (arrowheads). Sections through class 3 ULT AS shoot apices reveal a small group of enlarged cells that are not organized into layers as in the wild type. After the termination of the primary SAM some ULT AS plants initiate axillary meristems, which generate one or more inflorescences (Fig. 9D) much later than wild-type plants (Fig. 9C). These axillary inflorescence meristems can also arrest precociously, after the production of a couple of flowers (Fig. 9E). The least severely affected ULT AS plants produce flowers that resemble those of ult1-2 mutants (Fig. 9F-I). These plants form flowers with supernumerous floral organs (Fig. 9G) when compared with wild-type plants (Fig. 9F). Five sepals and five petals are observed in some flowers (Fig. 9G), and others form up to four carpels (Fig. 9H). Flowers from the ULT AS lines also display a partial loss of determinacy, in that supernumerous carpels can develop as fifth whorl structures within the fourth whorl gynoecium (Fig. 9I, arrow).
!~MM~! Landsberg erecta (Ler), the ecotype in which the ult1 ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS) alleles were isolated, was used as the wild-type strain for the ult1 alleles. The STM promoter-GUS line (Ler ecotype) was obtained from Anita Fernandez and Kathy Barton. The ult1-3 allele (SALK 074642) and ult2-1 allele (SAIL 748C4) were initially isolated from T-DNA mutagenesis populations in the Columbia-0 (Col-0) background. The ult1-3 allele was introgressed into Ler through three backcrosses. Plants were grown in a 1:1:1 mixture of perlite:vermiculite:topsoil under continuous cool-white fluorescent lights (120 μmol m-2 s-1) at 22°C, and were watered daily with a 1:1500 dilution of Miracle-Gro 20-20-20 fertilizer. Transgenic lines were generated by the floral dip method (CITATION). Using cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence (CAPS) markers (CITATION) distributed across the lower arm of chromosome 4, we established that ult1-2 was flanked by markers PG11 (map position 75.16 cM) and g8300 (81.22 cM). For the fine mapping of ULT1, we designed 12 new CAPS markers that spanned the region between markers PG11 and g8300, using the TIGR Landsberg erecta random sequence database (www.tigr.org) as a source for single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). The primer sequences, restriction enzyme and number of restriction sites in the Col/Ler ecotypes for the CAPS marker sequences generated across this interval are available upon request. Sequencing was performed on an ABI PRISM® 3100 Genetic Analyzer sequencer (Perkin Elmer), according to the manufacturer's instructions. Computer-based sequence analysis was performed using VectorNTI® Suite (Informax) and Sequencher (Gene Codes Corporation, Ann Harbor) software. Multiple protein alignments were obtained using ClustalX and edited with SeqVu (The Garvan Institute of Medical Research). A 2745 bp fragment spanning the ULT1-coding region and flanking sequence was digested from BAC F26K10 with NdeI, Klenow-filled and cloned into blunt pBSK+ vector (pBSK+-ULT construct). Then a BamHI/KpnI fragment was cut from pBSK+-ULT vector and cloned into the binary vector pCD214 (kindly provided by Chris Day). Transgenic plants were selected on MS plates containing gentamycin (100μ g/ml). The full-length ULT ORFs were cloned into the binary vector pCD223 (kindly provided by Chris Day) at the EcoRI site, flanked 5′ by a double CaMV 35S promoter and 3′ by a nopaline synthase transcription termination signal. The clones were then screened by PCR to obtain the ULT cDNA insert in the sense (S) or antisense (AS) orientation. Transgenic plants were selected on MS plates containing gentamycin (100 μg/ml). The pEZS vectors carrying the CaMV 35S-MCS-(Ala)10-EGFP cassette or the CaMV 35S-EGFP-(Ala)10-MCS cassette were kindly provided by David Ehrhardt. The ULT cDNA fragments were cloned into the EcoRI and BamHI sites of pEZS-NL/CL vectors to give pEZS-NL/CL-ULT constructs. To create the CaMV 35S-MCS-(Ala)10-GUS-EGFP and CaMV 35S-GUS-EGFP-(Ala)10-MCS cassettes, we introduced a short synthetic linker at the NcoI site of pEZS. The β-Glucuronidase uidA (GUS) gene was cloned at the newly created NcoI and PmlI sites. Then the ULT cDNA fragments were cloned into the EcoRI and BamHI sites of the pEZS MCS. For stable transformation of Arabidopsis plants, the 35S::ULT-GFP and 35S::ULT-GUS-GFP cassettes were transferred into pART27 at the NotI site (CITATION). Transgenic plants were then selected on MS plates containing kanamycin (50μ g/ml). For transient assays, the pEZS-ULT fusions were transformed into onion epidermis cells by particle bombardment using a Biolistic PDS-1000/He unit (BioRad, Richmond, CA), as described (CITATION). For GFP visualization, epidermal peels were examined 24-36 hours after bombardment using a Zeiss Axiophot microscope. GFP fluorescence was visualized with the FITC channel and images were acquired with a 12-bit MicroMax cooled CCD camera operated by IPLab software (Scanalytics, Fairfax, VA). GFP and DAPI fluorescence was visualized in plants using a Zeiss LSM510 confocal laser-scanning microscope (CLSM), with the FITC channel and the UV channel, respectively. For immunodetection of GFP in the transgenic lines, 0.5 g of inflorescence tissues were ground in liquid nitrogen and then extracted with 500 μl of cold buffer [100 mM MOPS pH 7.6, 100 mM NaCl, 5% (v/v) Glycerol, 1 mM EDTA, 14 mM β-mercaptoethanol, 1 mM PMSF, 2 μg/ml pepstatin A, 0.2 μg/ml leupeptin, 1 μg/ml aprotinin] containing protease inhibitors. Each protein extract (15 μg) was separated on a 12.5% SDS-PAGE gel and blotted on a nitrocellulose membrane. Immunoblots were incubated with a 1:500 dilution of an anti-GFP polyclonal antibody (Santa Cruz Biotech). The GUS staining reaction and subsequent tissue embedding and sectioning were performed as described (CITATION), with the exception that GUS localization was visualized after 6 hours of staining with 2 mM of 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-D-glucoronide (X-GLUC, Bioworld). Total RNA was isolated from various tissues using the RNeasy plant kit (Qiagen), treated with RQ1 RNase-free DNase (Promega) for 30 minutes at 37°C, and then purified with phenol/chloroform. The first-strand cDNA synthesis was performed on 5 μg of total RNA using Superscript II RNase H- reverse transcriptase (Gibco BRL, Life Technologies) and an oligo dT primer (18 mer), according to the manufacturer's instructions. From 20 μl of the reverse-transcription (RT) product, 1 μl was used for each PCR reaction. The annealing temperature was 54°C for all primer pairs and 34 cycles of PCR were performed for all genes, except when mentioned otherwise. Probes for in situ hybridization were transcribed using the digoxigenin-labeling mix (Roche). The WUS antisense probe was generated as described previously (CITATION). The STM antisense probe was generated from the 1.1 kb transcript described by Long and Barton (CITATION). Separate ULT probes were generated from the full-length coding sequences of ULT1 and ULT2, and from the 3′UTR of each gene. Tissue fixation and in situ hybridization were performed as described previously (CITATION), with the additional steps that siliques were smashed and seedlings tips were chopped before infiltration, to facilitate fixative penetration into the tissues.
