!~ABS~! Serine/arginine-rich (SR) proteins constitute an important class of splicing regulators in higher eukaryotes that share a modular structure consisting of one or two N-terminal RNA recognition motif (RRM) domains and a C-terminal RS-rich domain. Herein, we have investigated the in vivo functional distribution of Arabidopsis SR factors. Agrobacterium-mediated transient transformation revealed nuclear speckled distribution and the overall colocalization of fluorescent protein (FP)-tagged SR factors in both tobacco and Arabidopsis cells. Their overall colocalization in larger nucleoplasmic domains was further observed after transcriptional and phosphorylation/dephosphorylation inhibition, indicating a close functional association between SR factors, independent of their phosphorylation state. Furthermore, we demonstrated in vivo the conserved role of the RS and RRM domains in the efficient targeting of Arabidopsis SR proteins to nuclear speckles by using a series of structural domain-deleted mutants of atRSp31 and atRSZp22. We suggest additional roles of RS domain such as the shuttling of atRSZp22 between nucleoplasm and nucleolus through its phosphorylation level. The coexpression of deletion mutants with wild-type SR proteins revealed potential complex associations between them. Fluorescence recovery after photobleaching demonstrated similar dynamic properties of SR factors in both tobacco transiently expressing cells and Arabidopsis transgenics. Cell cycle phase-dependent organization of FP-tagged SR proteins was observed in living tobacco BY-2 cells. We showed that atRSp31 is degraded at metaphase by fluorescence quantification. SR proteins also localized within small foci at anaphase. These results demonstrate interesting related features as well as potentially important differences between plant and animal SR proteins.
!~RES~! 
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana and Nicotiana tabacum (cv. Petit Havana) seeds were sown on soil in a culture chamber and allowed to germinate and grow under long-day conditions (16-h-light/8-h-dark photoperiod) at approximately 20°C. Arabidopsis plants with well-developed leaf rosette and 20-cm-high tobacco plants were used for Agrobacterium-mediated transient expression. Tobacco (N. tabacum) BY-2 cells were grown at 28°C by weekly dilution in fresh BY-2 medium, consisting of 0.44% (w/v) of Murashige and Skoog (MS) salts supplemented with 3% (w/v) sucrose, 0.2 mg ml−1 KH2PO4, 50 μg ml−1 myo-inositol, 2.5 μg ml−1 thiamine-HCl, 0.2 μg ml−1 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid (2,4-D), adjusted to pH 5.8 with 1 m KOH. BY-2 cells were maintained in the dark with continuous shaking. Extraction of total RNA was carried out by the hot phenol method and LiCl precipitation as described previously (CITATION). The RNA pellet was dissolved in 10 mm Tris–HCl, pH 7.5 and 1 mm EDTA after ethanol precipitation. Poly(A)+ mRNA was purified with the Oligotex mRNA kit (Qiagen, Venlo, The Netherlands). RT-PCR amplification was performed on either 0.5–1 μg of total RNA or 0.25–0.5 μg of poly (A)+ mRNA by using PowerScript (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA, USA) with oligo-d(T) primer. The resulting cDNAs were used as templates for PCR amplification with gene-specific primers or modified primers for subsequent cloning in binary vectors. The construction of pBAR35S::atRSp31-GFP was described in a previous report (CITATION). For all constructs, coding sequences were amplified from the appropriate source by PCR using the proofreading Pfu polymerase (Promega, Leiden, The Netherlands).AtRSp31::GFP fusions with different deletions in the atRSp31 coding sequence were constructed as follows. The coding sequences of the chimeric mutants ΔRNP2-GFP and ΔRRM-GFP were amplified directly from pBAR35S::atRSp31-GFP (with respectively the 5′ primers 5′-ATGTCTGGATATGCTTTTGTGTACTTT-3′ and 5′-ATGTGGGCAAAGGGTGAACGT-3′, and the 3′ primer 5′-TTACTTGTACAGCTCGTCCATGC-3′), and cloned into the blunt-ended SmaI binary vector pBAR35S, carrying the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S (CaMV35S) promoter/terminator (CITATION). The coding sequences of ΔRS and ΔIR/RS were amplified from pBAR35S::atRSp31-GFP (using the 5′ primer 5′-ATGAGGCCAGTGTTCGTCGGC-3′, and respectively, the 3′ primers 5′-GAAGATCTTCCGGAGGAAACAACCCTATC-3′ and 5′-GA-AGATCTTCCGGATTCAACTGATAACTTGCGTTTCTC-3′, both containing a BglII site, underlined). The coding sequence of EGFP was amplified from pEGFP (Clontech) with the 5′ primer 5′-GAAGATCTATGGTGAGCAAGGGCGAGGAG-3′ containing a BglII site, and the 3′ primer 5′-TTACTTGTACAGCTCGTCCATGC-3′. The resulting PCR fragments were digested with BglII and ligated. The chimeric gene was then amplified and cloned into pBAR35S. As selection of BY-2 cell transformants could not be performed based on glufosinate ammonium resistance (conferred by the Bar gene in pBAR35S plasmid), the pBI121 (Clontech) vector was subsequently used for further transformations. Plasmid pBI121, carrying a CaMV 35S–β-glucuronidase–nopaline synthase (35S-GUS-NOS) expression cassette with a kanamycin resistance gene as a selectable marker for plant cell transformation, was first digested with BamHI and SstI to remove the GUS coding sequence generating pBI35S-ΔGUS. AtRSp31-GFP (amplified from pBAR35S::atRSp31-GFP using upward and forward primers containing BamHI and SstI sites respectively) was cloned into pBI-ΔGUS yielding pBI35S::atRSp31-GFP. To study the colocalization of SR factors, multiple fluorescence imaging was performed by using m(onomeric)RFP1 (a derivative of DsRed; a kind gift from Prof. R. Tsien, Howard Hughes Medical Institute Laboratories, University of California; CITATION). For the construction of pBI35S::atRSZp22-mRFP1, mRFP1 was amplified using the 5′ primer (5′-GTGGTACCATGGCCTCCTCCGAGGACGTCATC-3′) containing a KpnI site, and the 3′ primer (5′-TCGAGCTCTTAGGCGCCGGTGGAGTGGCG-3′) containing an SstI site, and for pBI35S::atRSZp22-GFP the EGFP coding sequence was amplified from pEGFP (using the 5′ primer 5′-GTGGTACCATGGTGAGCAAGGGCGAGGAG-3′, containing a KpnI site and the 3′ primer 5′-TCGAGCTCTTACTTGTACAGCTCGTCCATGCCGAGAGTGAT-3′ containing an SstI site). AtRSZp22 was amplified by RT-PCR using the 5′ primer (5′-CGGGATCCAAGGAGATATAACAATGTCACGTGTGTACCTCGG-3′) containing a BamHI site and the 3′ primer (5′-GTGGTACCACCACCGCTCCTGCTTCTGCGTCT-3′) containing a KpnI site. The amplified fragments were then digested with KpnI and ligated. The chimeric gene was then PCR amplified and cloned into pBI-ΔGUS. We followed the same approach for the construction of pBI35S::atRSZ33-GFP and pBI35S::atRSZ33-mRFP1 by using the atRSZ33-specific primers (5′-CGGGATCCAACAATGCCTCGCTATGATGATCGCTA-3′, containing a BamHI site and 5′-GTGGTACCACCACCAGGAGACTCACTTCCTCTAGGGGAAG-3′, containing a KpnI site), and of pBI35S::atSRp34-GFP by using the atSRp34-specific primers (5′-CGGGATCCAAGGAGATATAACAATGAGCAGTCGTTCGAGTA-3′, containing a BamHI site and 5′-GGGGTACCCCTCGATGGACTCCTAGTG-3′, containing a KpnI site). The Arabidopsis Rpb15.9 sequence was amplified by RT-PCR (using primers 5′-GTGGTACCATGTCCGGAGAAGAAGAA-3′ containing a KpnI site, and 5′-CTACTCGAATCTCTTGACAAGTGAGAG-3′). The GFP sequence was amplified with 5′-GCTCTAGAATGGTGAGCAAGGGCGAG-3′, containing an XbaI site and 5′-GTGGTACCACCACCCTTGTACAGCTCGTCCAT-3′ containing a KpnI site. The resulting PCR products were digested with KpnI and ligated. The chimeric sequence was then amplified, digested with XbaI and cloned into pBI-ΔGUS (which was first refilled with Klenow after SstI digestion). In the resulting vector designated pBI35S::GFP-Rpb15.9, Rpb15.9 is fused to the C-terminal end of GFP. The resultant plasmids were electroporated into the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 (pMP90), and subsequently used for transformations. Independent clones were sequenced to detect any mutation caused by PCR. The smart prediction program (CITATION; http://smart.embl-heidelberg.de/) was used for domain prediction and their precise location. Transient transformation in tobacco and Arabidopsis leaves was performed essentially as described previously (CITATION). Briefly, A. tumefaciens bearing the appropriate binary vector was grown at 28°C overnight in 10 ml YEB liquid medium (0.5% sucrose, 0.1% yeast extract, 0.5% Bactopeptone, 0.5% Invitrogen beef extract, 2 mm MgSO4, pH 7.4) supplemented with 25 μg ml−1 gentamycin, 100 μg ml−1 rifampicin and 50 μg ml−1 kanamycin. After centrifugation, the bacteria were washed with infiltration medium (50 mm Mes, 2 mm Na3PO4, 0.5% glucose and 100 μm acetosyringone) and then resuspended in the same medium at the desired final OD600. Leaves were infiltrated using a 5-ml syringe by applying gentle pressure through the stomata of the abaxial epidermis. For coexpression, various co-inoculation experiments and Agrobacterium densities were tested on tobacco. The most efficient cell cotransformation was obtained with inocula of OD600 ranging between 0.6 and 1.0; high inoculum densities (OD600 above 1.3) prevented transformation. Inoculated plants were then incubated under normal growth conditions. The infiltrated areas were cut at 48–72 h after inoculation and further processed for imaging or inhibitor treatments. Arabidopsis plant transformation was performed as described previously (CITATION). Transgenic T1 plants were selected on plates containing sterile solidified MS medium supplemented with 3% sucrose and 50 μg ml−1 glufosinate ammonium (Riedel-de-Haën, Sigma-Aldrich, Bornem, Belgium). After 10 days of growth, transformants were planted directly into soil at the two-leaf stage to obtain T2 and T3 progeny. Stable transformation and synchronization of BY-2 cells was performed essentially as described previously (CITATION). Briefly, 4 ml of a 3-day-old cell culture were distributed into a Petri dish and 0.1 ml of an overnight Agrobacterium culture, containing the binary vector of interest, was added. After 4 days of coincubation at 22°C, BY-2 cells were washed three times with 10 ml of BY-2 medium and plated onto sterile solidified BY-2 medium supplemented with 100 μg ml−1 kanamycin, and 500 μg ml−1 carbenecillin. Plates were incubated for 3–4 weeks at 28°C until transformed calli were visible. Transgenic calli were screened for their expression using confocal microscopy and selected cell colonies were further transferred onto new selective plates. Fragments of transiently transformed leaves were used for inhibitor treatments as described previously (CITATION). Leaf tissues were floated in 10 μmα–amanitin (Sigma), 500 nm okadaic acid (Calbiochem, La Jolla, CA, USA), 50 μm staurosporine (Sigma) or water as control for various time periods. The subcellular localization of phosphorylated RNAP II C-terminal domain (CTD) was determined using H5 mouse monoclonal antibodies (Covance Research Products, Berkeley, CA, USA). The H5 antibodies mark the RNAP II phosphorylated at serine 2 of the CTD of the largest RNAP II subunit. For immunofluorescence analysis, fragments of Arabidopsis and tobacco leaf cells were fixed overnight in 4% paraformaldehyde in 1x PEM buffer (50 mm PIPES, NaOH, pH 7.0; 5 mm EGTA; 5 mm MgSO4), and washed two times with PEM supplemented with 0.1% Triton X-100. The cells were incubated in driselase (0.25%), cellulase (1%) and pectinase (1%) for 2 h at room temperature. After washing in Triton X-100 PEM, cells were then incubated for 1 h with a blocking solution consisting of 1% BSA, 5% normal goat serum in PBS at room temperature. Fixed cells were incubated overnight with H5 antibodies at a dilution of 1:100. After washing, primary antibodies were detected using FITC- or Alexa 633-conjugated goat anti-mouse antibody at dilution of 1:100 and 1:500, respectively, with an incubation time of at least 1 h. Nuclei were counterstained with DAPI. For epifluorescence microscopy, images were captured with a Nikon CoolPix 950 digital camera (Nikon, Tokyo, Japan). For confocal imaging, images were acquired using a Leica TCS SP2 inverted confocal laser microscope (Leica Microsystems, Heidelberg, Germany) equipped with one argon and two helium–neon lasers. Digitized images were acquired using a 63 × NA1.5 Plan-Apo water-immersion objective at 1024 × 1024 pixel resolution. The diameter of the pinhole was set up equal to the Airy unit. Series of optical sections were carried out to analyse the spatial distribution of fluorescence, and for each nucleus, they were recorded with a Z-step ranging between 0.2 and 0.5 μm. Images were acquired under identical conditions and we ensured that the maximal fluorescence signal was not saturating the photomultiplier tubes (PMT). For multicolour imaging, GFP was visualized by using an excitation wavelength of 488 nm and the emission light was dispersed and recorded at 500–535 nm. MonomericRFP1 was detected by using an excitation wavelength of 543 and the 488/543 dichroic mirror, and the mRFP1 emission was dispersed and recorded at 585–660 nm. The acquisition was set up to avoid any crosstalk of the two fluorescence emissions. To quantify the fluorescence, lines were drawn through the nucleus by using Leica software (version 2.5). The fluorescence intensities along this line, represented by a graph profile, provide data on the relative concentration of FP-tagged SR factors in the subnuclear compartments. After a period of observation of over 2 h, abnormal localization of SR proteins was observed possibly due to experimental stress such as hypoxia followed by ATP depletion, and/or cold temperature. Our system does not bear a temperature-control unit or objective heaters, and as well known, the objective and the optical coupling medium act as a thermal conductive object/medium sinking heat away from the specimen. To perform FRAP experiments, transgenics Arabidopsis seedlings (T2 and T3) and tobacco leaf fragments stably and transiently expressing atRSp31-GFP, respectively, were mounted in water and observed using the 488-nm line of the argon laser in conjunction with a Plan-Apo 100× 1.4 NA oil immersion objective. Nuclei (n = 5 per experiment) were imaged at medium resolution of 512 × 512 pixels. Using the extended time-lapse function, pre-bleach images (generally, between five and 10 data points) were acquired by sequentially scanning the same optical section through the nucleus at low laser power (3–5% transmission). Next, the laser was zoomed in square areas (from 10 to 20 μm2) with power increased to 100% and the area was scanned four to six times until the fluorescence was significantly reduced. The laser was zoomed out and its power reduced to pre-bleach settings. Recovery of fluorescence intensity was monitored by scanning the nucleus until the recovery reached a steady plateau. Nuclear areas ranging from 10 to 20 μm2, corresponding approximately to 8–15% of the surface of the nucleus, were bleached and recovery rates did not appear to be dependent on the size of the bleached region. We ensure that post-bleach imaging did not result in significant loss of fluorescence over time. The values of the bleached areas were then normalized and further analysed by using GraphPad Prism 4 and non-linear sigmoidal regression (GraphPad Software, San Diego, CA, USA). For quantification of fluorescence in BY-2 cells, the maximum fluorescence intensity was first determined by scanning different stages of the cell cycle (interphase, metaphase and telophase), and we ensured that this maximal fluorescence signal was not saturating the PMT. Z-series (with a Z-step of 1 μm) of nuclei and metaphase cells (n = 6) were then collected keeping constant all parameters (laser intensity, PMT gain, scanning speed, etc.). The fluorescence intensities of individual optical sections were quantified by delineating the nucleus (interphase and telophase) or the cytoplasm (metaphase) using Leica software. On the basis of the collected image stacks, fluorescence intensities were averaged to produce a mean fluorescence intensity for each cell and the pixel value per unit area (100 μm2) was calculated. These values were averaged within groups for the various mitotic stages and standard errors were calculated in Microsoft Excel. The average value calculated for the interphase cells was set as 100% and the other values were expressed relative to this. For comparison, quantification was also performed on an average projection for each of the series collected. The average pixel intensity of confocal reconstructions of either the entire nucleus (interphase and telophase) or the entire metaphase cell was measured using Leica software and the pixel values per 100 μm2 were averaged for each stage of the cell cycle. Captured images were exported as TIFF format files and further processed using Adobe Photoshop 7.0 for figure mounting and labelling purposes.
