!~ABS~!   Transgenic plants expressing either green fluorescent protein (GFP)‐genomic DNA or GFP‐cDNA fusions have been used as powerful tools to define the subcellular localization of many proteins. Because most plant cells are highly vacuolated, the cytosol is confined to a thin layer at the periphery of the cells, making it very difficult to distinguish among cell wall, cell membrane and cytosolic GFP‐fusion proteins.  Plasmolysis tests inform about cell‐wall localization of GFP‐tagged proteins, but they do not discriminate between its cell membrane and/or cytoplasmic localization. By observing the GFP signal in transgenic protoplasts placed at a hypotonic solution, it was possible to distinguish between cell membrane and cytosolic GFP‐tagged proteins.  The osmotic disruption of the protoplast vacuole in the hypotonic solution allows the diffusion of the GFP signal from the cell periphery to the central part of the cell volume when the GFP is fused to a soluble protein. By contrast, such diffusion does not occur when the protein under study is attached to the cell membrane.  The present method is easier, faster and cheaper than subcellular fractionating studies and/or immunoelectron microscopy, which have been traditionally used to discern between cell membrane and cytosolic proteins. 
!~RES~! In highly vacuolated cells where the cytosol is confined to a thin layer at the extreme cell periphery, the present method distinguishes between cell membrane and cytosolic GFP‐tagged proteins by following two easy steps (Fig. 1): (1) the mechanical isolation of the protoplasts, and (2) observation of the GFP signal during its osmotic rupture. The protoplasts isolation starts with the plasmolysis of the plant (or organ) under study, resulting in movement of plasma membranes away from the cell walls. This allows division of the plant into two sections by disrupting only some protoplasts. The deplasmolysis step induces the movement of the living protoplasts, which facilitates its release to the external medium. This method of isolating protoplasts is a better alternative to those based on enzymatic reactions, because (1) the small number of protoplasts released (from one to two in every hypocotyl cross‐section; n = 15), which facilitates its monitoring, and (2) absence of enzymatic buffers that may induce some effects on the stability/localization of the GFP. It is important to note that observation of the GFP signal must be combined with the simultaneous visualization of the red fluorescence, which informs about the position of the chloroplasts in the cell volume. This allows easy inference of the moment in which the vacuole disruption takes place; such a moment coincides with the beginning of the free movement of the chloroplast from the cell periphery to the central volume of the cell.  [[FIGURE]] Two GFP‐tagged cell surface proteins (Fig. 2) were used to test the efficacy of the present method: CAPRICE (CPC) and RARE COLD INDUCIBLE 1A (RCI1A). CPC belongs to the MYB family of transcriptional factors and it positively regulates root hair formation (Wada et al., 1997). Previous studies have shown that CPC locates to the nucleus of root epidermal cells (Wada et al., 2002). RCI2A is a hydrophobic protein, whose gene expression is induced by cold (Capel et al., 1997). Plants bearing either the CPC promoter–CPC‐GFP construct or a random GFP–cDNA fusion that solves the RCI2A protein localization (37‐26 line), showed GFP fluorescence at the cell surface of hypocotyl epidermal cells (Fig. 2). The nucleus of CPC promoter‐CPC‐GFP plants, as it might be expected for a putative transcriptional factor, also exhibited fluorescence (Fig. 2a). Plasmolysis experiments showed that these proteins, CPC and RCI2A, do not localize to the cell wall (Fig. 3).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Plasmolysed CPC promoter–CPC‐GFP protoplasts showed the GFP signal restricted to the nucleus and to the cell surface (Fig. 4a). From 5 to 35 min, after placing the protoplasts in a hypotonic solution, the chloroplasts started to move freely along the cytoplasm because of osmotic disruption of the tonoplast. In parallel, the GFP signal of the cell surface diminished because of diffusion of the GFP‐tagged CPC in the absence of the vacuole; such a GFP signal was absent some seconds/minutes after vacuole disruption. A total of 15 protoplasts were monitored, and in all of them the GFP dynamic was identical. These results indicate that CPC is not targeted to the cell membrane, but that it is a soluble protein. It is likely that the localization of GFP signal in the cytosol is caused by an excess of CPC protein, perhaps saturating its movement to the nucleus. The dynamic of GFP movement in protoplasts of the 37‐26 line (n = 15; Fig. 4b) differed from that of the CPC promoter–CPC‐GFP protoplasts. A free movement of chloroplasts, from 2 to 30 min after placing the protoplast in a hypotonic medium, was also observed in this line. By contrast, the GFP signal at the cell surface did not decrease, indicating that RCI2A protein is targeted to the plasma membrane. The osmotic disruption of the plasma membrane provided fluorescent curves confirming such subcellular localization.  [[FIGURE]] Proteins interact with the cell membranes through specific sequences. Both CPC and RCI2A sequences were analysed for the presence of plasma membrane segments using three programs (thmm2.0, psort and hmmtop). The three programs showed that the CPC sequence has no predicted membrane‐spanning domain (Fig. 5a). Although some transcriptional factors are inserted into the membrane by interaction with other proteins, thereby preventing or reducing their access to the nucleus and thus the transcription regulation of their target genes (Hoppe et al., 2001), observation of the CPC promoter–CPC‐GFP protoplasts under a hypotonic medium indicated that CPC is not sequestrated in the plasma membrane. The nuclear localization of the protein was identified using psort. The program thmm2.0, which is considered the best performing transmembrane prediction program (Möller et al., 2001), predicted two transmembrane helices between amino acids 4 and 26, and between amino acids 31 and 53, for RCI2A protein (Fig. 5b). A previous method for prediction of membrane‐spanning regions (Klein et al., 1985), also suggested that RCI2A contains two potential transmembrane domains (Capel et al., 1997). The thmm2.0 program also predicted that the region between the amino acid 27 and 30 locates to the cytoplasm, and that the N (amino acid between 1 and 3) and C (amino acid 54) terminus of the protein locates to the extracellular medium (Fig. 5b). Both the hmmtop and the psort programs also predicted two transmembrane helices for RCI2A protein. In summary, the predictions through bioinformatic analysis are consistent with the presence of a fraction of soluble CPC, and with the attachment of RCI2A to the plasma membrane.  [[FIGURE]] The present method provides an easy and inexpensive way to solve the subcellular localization of GFP‐tagged proteins by using confocal/fluorescence microscopy. It then offers an interesting alternative to immunoelectron microscopy and subcellular fractionating studies, which are therefore greatly restricted by the available financial and technological resources of the laboratories. The analysis of the genomic sequence of Arabidopsis revealed that 8613 genes contain at least a transmembrane domain (The Arabidopsis Genome Initiative, 2000) and the localization of most of them is unknown. However, this might be experimentally addressed easily by using this method. This will require the availability of transgenic plants with fusions of such genes to the GFP. Cutler et al. (2000), in a screen for random GFP–cDNA fusions, isolated five Arabidopsis lines showing the GFP fluorescence at the extreme periphery of the cell. One of them revealed the cell surface localization of RCI2A, which has been studied here, showing that it is attached to the plasma membrane. The precise localization of the GFP in the remaining four lines remains unknown, although the gene identity responsible for such localization suggests that the proteins encoded by them are targeted to the plasma membrane (Cutler et al., 2000). The precise localization of such proteins can therefore be investigated using this method. Because subcellular localization will become an increasingly important tool in determining the function of the many unknown proteins predicted by plant genome projects, and GFP fusions are already indispensable, the present method might also extend not only to Arabidopsis thaliana but also to any plant species. 
!~MM~!  Arabidopis plants expressing cell surface GFP‐fusion proteins were used. Plants bearing a CPC promoter–CPC‐GFP construct have been previously described (Wada et al., 2002). The 37–26 line defining the RCI2A protein localization was identified in a random GFP–cDNA fusion screening (Cutler et al., 2000).  Seeds were vernalized at 4°C for several days, after which they were sterilized in 5% sodium hypochlorite, and plated on Petri dishes containing Murashige and Skoog salts (Sigma, Aldrich Química SA, Madrid, Spain) supplemented with 1% sucrose and solidified with 1% agar. Seedlings were grown for 6 d on horizontally oriented dishes at 22°C in light (16 h light : 8 h dark cycle).  Transgenic plants were incubated in 1 m KNO3 for 5 min, leading to plasmolysis.  After plasmolysis, plants were placed in slides and their hypocotyls were cross‐sectioned by hand using a surgical blade (BB 536). A single section was performed per hypocotyl, and a total of 15 organs of each transgenic plant (CPC promoter‐CPC‐GFP plant and 37–26 line) were sectioned. After sectioning, a drop of distilled water was added to the sample. This induced deplasmolysis, resulting in the expansion and release of the protoplasts from the cut ends of the cells. Fifteen protoplasts of each transgenic line (CPC promoter–CPC‐GFP plant and 37–26 line) were monitored from its release to its osmotic disruption, studying in each the dynamic of GFP localization.  The fluorescence of the GFP was observed with a DMIRB inverted Leica TCS SP2 confocal microscope (Leica Microsystems GmbH, Mannheim, Germany) using a 488 nm laser line of an argon (Ar) laser, with the emission window set at 500–525 nm. The plant autofluorescence was also visualized by setting the emission window at 580–690 nm. The GFP fluorescence and autofluorescence acquisition were performed simultaneously using either a ×10/NA 0.30 PL fluotar objective or a ×40/NA 1.25–0.75 PL APO oil immersion objective. Either optical sectioning along all cells to capture the entire fluorescent signals or single sections were performed depending of the samples. When the fluorescent signals were captured along all cells, the sections were overlaid in a single image. Images were recorded with picture size of 1024 × 1024 pixels, arranged and labelled using Adobe Photoshop 6.0.  Both CPC protein and RCI2A protein were analysed for the presence of plasma membrane segments using hmmtop2.0 (http://www.enzim.hu/hmmtop/), psort (http://psort.nibb.ac.jp/), and tmhmm2.0 (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TMHMM/) servers. 
