!~ABS~! Aurora-like kinases play key roles in chromosome segregation and cytokinesis in yeast, plant, and animal systems. Here, we characterize three Arabidopsis thaliana protein kinases, designated AtAurora1, AtAurora2, and AtAurora3, which share high amino acid identities with the Ser/Thr kinase domain of yeast Ipl1 and animal Auroras. Structure and expression of AtAurora1 and AtAurora2 suggest that these genes arose by a recent gene duplication, whereas the diversification of plant α and β Aurora kinases predates the origin of land plants. The transcripts and proteins of all three kinases are most abundant in tissues containing dividing cells. Intracellular localization of green fluorescent protein–tagged AtAuroras revealed an AtAurora-type specific association mainly with dynamic mitotic structures, such as microtubule spindles and centromeres, and with the emerging cell plate of dividing tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY-2 cells. Immunolabeling using AtAurora antibodies yielded specific signals at the centromeres that are coincident with histone H3 that is phosphorylated at Ser position10 during mitosis. An in vitro kinase assay demonstrated that AtAurora1 preferentially phosphorylates histone H3 at Ser 10 but not at Ser 28 or Thr 3, 11, and 32. The phylogenetic analysis of available Aurora sequences from different eukaryotic origins suggests that, although a plant Aurora gene has been duplicated early in the evolution of plants, the paralogs nevertheless maintained a role in cell cycle–related signal transduction pathways.
!~RES~! Aurora Ser/Thr kinases have a characteristic catalytic domain (CITATION) that is conserved in three Arabidopsis Aurora-like genes: AtAurora1 (At4g32830), AtAurora2 (At2g25880), and AtAurora3 (At2g45490). The cDNAs corresponding to the Aurora-like genes were isolated by RT-PCR after the corresponding exonic sequences were identified using gene prediction programs and published EST sequences. The exon/intron structures of the Arabidopsis Aurora genes were deduced by comparison of cDNA and genomic sequences. AtAurora1 to 3 encode predicted proteins of 294, 282, and 288 amino acids (Figure 1B). Alignment (Figure 1A) reveals the conserved catalytic domain of Arabidopsis Aurora-like kinases, the budding yeast Aurora kinase Ipl1, Drosophila Aurora, and mouse Aurora (AIE1). The catalytic domain is highly conserved, showing 64 to 95% identity between the different AtAuroras. It contains a motif in the activation loop (DFGWSxxxxxxxRxTxCGTxDYLPPE, see Figure 1A, asterisks), in which is imbedded a residue that in animal systems is phosphorylated by cAMP-dependent kinase PKA (CITATION). Downstream of the activation loop, a D2-type destruction box [RXX(L/I)XXVXX HPW, see Figure 1A, indicated by plus signs] is present that may be subject to proteasome-dependent targeting and protein degradation (CITATION). At a similar position, other Aurora proteins also carry a degradation box that has been shown to be essential for human Aurora protein degradation (CITATION; CITATION). The N- and C-terminal domains are more divergent and are presumably responsible for substrate specificity (Figure 1B). [[FIGURE]] To investigate the evolutionary relationship of the Aurora family, the conserved catalytic domain was used to build a phylogenetic tree (Figure 2). We searched the EMBL plant EST database, querying with the predicted protein sequences of AtAuroras. We identified ESTs from putative Aurora-like genes in 15 angiosperm species (six monocots and nine dicots) and one member each in cycads, ferns, and mosses. All plant Auroras are grouped in a plant-specific clade divided in two major subgroups that we called plant Aurora α and plant Aurora β. The monocots Zea mays, Oryza sativa, and Hordeum vulgare and the dicot Arabidopsis had representatives in both subclades, whereas lower plants contained only plant Aurora α. Arabidopsis has two Aurora α-type copies that are highly similar at the nucleotide sequence level and in intron/exon structure (Figure 1C), suggesting that these originated via a relatively recent duplication event. [[FIGURE]] The tissue distribution of AtAurora expression was determined by RNA gel blot hybridization of total RNA isolated from young roots, stems, flower buds, flowers, fully expanded leaves, and 4-d-old seedlings possessing small apical meristems (Figure 3A) and by semiquantitative RT-PCR (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Specific Aurora probes hybridized to RNA of ∼0.9 kb. High abundance of Aurora transcripts was detected in root and flower tissue. Remarkably, fully expanded leaves and stems contained little or no Aurora RNA. Similarly, transcript levels were high in flower buds as well as in extracts from cultured cells (Figure 3B) when analyzed by semiquantitative RT-PCR. The Aurora transcript levels paralleled those from cdc6 (CITATION) and transcription factor e2f (CITATION), suggesting that these samples were enriched for cycling transcripts. The elongation factor 1B α-subunit (CITATION) and actin 3 were included as loading standards. Because Aurora RNA was most abundant in extracts from tissue rich in dividing cells, we plotted the RNA profiles of the AtAuroras in synchronized Arabidopsis tissue culture cells using publicly available Affymetrix microarray datasets (CITATION). The transcription profiles of AtAurora1, AtAurora2, AtAurora3, and the strongly mitotically induced cyclinB1;3 show that these four genes are activated together 8 h after release from the aphidicolin block (Figure 3C). The increase in mRNA coincides with entry into mitosis when expression of B-type cyclins is upregulated (CITATION; CITATION). Expression of the Auroras peaks at mitosis, after which they are downregulated along with cyclinB1;3. AtAurora1 shows the strongest induction level increasing approximately fivefold over the RNA level before the onset of mitosis (Figure 3C). The downregulation of AtAuroras overlaps with the end of mitosis 12 to 13 h after aphidicolin removal. [[FIGURE]] To quantify the AtAurora protein, a polyclonal antibody against recombinant AtAurora1 expressed in Escherichia coli was generated. The reactivity of the antiserum was tested with the same mixture of the recombinant AtAurora1 protein that was used for immunization of rabbits (Figure 3D). The antiserum recognized a 32-kD protein corresponding to the predicted molecular mass of AtAuroras. The smaller extra band (indicated with an asterisk in Figure 3D) is background specific to bacteria. In view of the high similarity (64 to 95%) of the AtAurora proteins and because the antibodies were prepared to a full-length AtAurora1, we anticipated a cross-reaction with all three members of the protein family and will therefore refer to the antiserum as anti-AtAurora. High protein levels were detected in young roots, flowers, and flower buds of Arabidopsis, in accordance with the transcript abundance (Figure 3E). A weaker immunosignal was detected in the protein extracts from seedlings and even less in extracts of mature leaves and old roots. No signal was obtained from siliques. The protein mobility in stems and leaves of rosettes was shifted, suggesting posttranslational modification of AtAurora in these tissues. To establish the uniformity of loading of the various protein samples, histone H3-specific antibody staining is shown in Figure 3D. To analyze the cellular localization of plant Auroras, the open reading frames of AtAurora1, 2, and 3 were fused upstream and downstream of the green fluorescent protein (GFP) coding sequence, and the resulting constructs were introduced into tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY-2 suspension cultures. Fusions with GFP at the N-terminal side produced more stable and intense fluorescence in BY-2 cells than fusions at the C-terminal end. In interphase cells, AtAurora1, 2, and 3 were predominantly located in the nucleus (Figures 4A, 4K, and 4U). To study the distribution of the fusion proteins during cell division, time-lapse photographs were recorded. At the onset of prophase, before nuclear envelope breakdown, GFP-AtAurora1 (Figure 4B) and GFP-AtAurora2 (Figures 4L to 4N) were located on the cytoplasmic side of the nuclear membrane, gradually migrating to the poles of the nascent spindle as mitosis progressed. Upon formation of the spindle microtubular basket, GFP-AtAurora1 (Figures 4C to 4F) and GFP-AtAurora2 (Figures 4O to 4R) associated with the microtubule fibrils and moved toward the midzone of the spindle. Later, both moved away from the spindle midzone toward the spindle poles (Figures 4E and 4Q). A weaker concentration of GFP-AtAurora1 was detectable in regions that colocalize with the position of the centromeres directed toward the spindle poles (Figures 4G and 4H, arrows). GFP-AtAurora1 and GFP-AtAurora2 behavior was remarkably similar until the end of anaphase when GFP-AtAurora1 concentrated at the midline of the phragmoplast (Figures 4F to 4I). It progressively followed the expansion of the cell plate until the mother wall was reached. GFP-AtAurora2 (Figure 4R, arrowhead) was much less abundant at the cell plate, and it disappeared at the onset of expansion. [[FIGURE]] In contrast with AtAurora1 and 2 that were evenly distributed in the nuclueus, GFP-AtAurora3 concentrated in nuclear dots arranged around the nucleolus and at the nuclear periphery in early prophase cells (Figure 4U). The diffuse perinuclear fluorescence and later, at the position where the poles of the spindle are formed, is presumably artifactual accumulation of the fusion product in an unknown compartment because we have seen this recurrently for other unrelated GFP-fusion constructs in BY-2 lines (Figures 4V to 4X). The strongest concentration of GFP-AtAurora3 occurred at or near the centromeres that became aligned during metaphase (Figures 4V and 4W, arrows). GFP-AtAurora-3 remained at the centromeres until a few minutes after the start of anaphase when the signals divided with chromosomes (Figure 4X, arrows). Then it became distributed to a granular component of the cytoplasm (Figure 4Y). We tested the ability of recombinant AtAurora1 to phosphorylate histone H3 in vitro. AtAurora1 was expressed in insect cells using the baculovirus sf9 expression system. The activity of the expressed AtAurora1 was analyzed using a kinase assay with two different substrates. Histone H3 of Arabidopsis was expressed in E. coli to ensure that posttranslational modifications were absent before the kinase assay (Figure 5A). Total histone extracts, including H3 isolated from calf thymus, were used to test histone H3-type specificity of AtAurora1 (Figure 5B). The possible influence of other potential posttranslational modifications of H3 was not studied in detail, but it is known from the literature that H3 methylation and acetylation are competitive processes (CITATION; CITATION). The in vitro kinase assay demonstrates that, like human Aurora A and B proteins (CITATION), the immunoprecipitated AtAurora1 showed protein kinase activity toward recombinant histone H3 (Figure 5A, lane 6, arrow). Histone H3 was not phosphorylated when incubated with proteins of uninfected insect cells (Figure 5A, lane 5). The phosphorylation signal was also absent when AtAurora1 antibody was added and when immunoprecipitated AtAurora1 was omitted from the reaction mixtures (lane 7) or contained substrate only (lane 8). The additional signals (Figure 5A, asterisk), which correspond with the size of the antibody light chain, are probably caused by nonspecific autophosphorylation of the antibody-containing fraction. The preferential phosphorylation of histone H3 was demonstrated by the kinase assay using total histones as AtAurora1 substrate. The kinase assay with precipitated AtAurora1 from infected insect cells with antirecombinant AtAurora1 (Figure 5B, lane 3) or with anti-6xHisTag antibodies (lane 4) indicates a preferential H3 phosphorylation by AtAurora1. In addition, a weaker kinase activity toward histone H4 (Figure 5B, lanes 3 and 4, arrowhead) and casein (data not shown) was observed. [[FIGURE]] We next determined the amino acid residue of histone H3 that is phosphorylated by AtAurora1 (Figure 5C). Nonradioactive in vitro kinase assays (see Figure 5C) performed with protein extracts from recombinant AtAurora1-infected insect cells using recombinant histone H3 as substrate and subsequent immunoblot analyses demonstrate a specific phosphorylation at Ser 10 of histone H3. No significant phosphorylation was detected at the histone H3 sites Ser 28, Thr 3, Thr 11, or Thr 32. To investigate whether AtAurora1 is colocated on mitotic chromosomes with phosphorylated histone H3, the subchromosomal location of AtAurora was determined in mitotic chromosomes of field bean (Vicia faba) (Figures 6A to 6J). This plant species was used because its large chromosomes allow a precise identification of subchromosomal domains. Immunostaining with the anti-AtAurora antibody yielded mainly specific signals at the internal centromeric region (Figures 6D and 6H). In the majority of the prophase nuclei, the immunosignals appeared as globular domains, which were further characterized by a distinct central signal gap (Figure 6C). Double labeling with anti-AtAurora and anti-α tubulin antibodies revealed a partial overlap between kinetochore-localized tubulin and the AtAurora-specific signals (Figures 6G to 6J). However, AtAurora signal was restricted to centromeric regions where sister chromatid cohesion persists longest (Figures 6D and 6H) and where the highest level of histone H3 phosphorylation at Ser 10 occurs (Figures 6K to 6M). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Wild-type (Arabidopsis thaliana var Columbia) plants were cultivated in growth chambers in a 12-h-light/dark cycle at 20 C°. Tissue samples were harvested from 2- to 4-week-old plants and stored at −80 C° until analysis. Total RNA was prepared from seedlings, flower buds, roots, leaves, flowers, and stems. Ten micrograms per sample were separated electrophoretically on 1.5% formaldehyde-agarose gels and transferred on nylon membranes (Hybond N+; Amersham, Buckinghamshire, UK) according to standard procedures. Equal loading of samples after spectrophotometric measurement was monitored by ethidium bromide staining and hybridization of RNA membrane with an actin-specific cDNA probe. cDNA fragments from the genes tested (AtAurora1, AtAurora2, and AtAurora3) were 32P labeled with the Megaprime labeling kit (Amersham Biosciences Europe, Freiburg, Germany) according to the manufacturer's instructions and hybridized to the membranes. Filters were washed at high stringency. Oligonucleotide primers corresponding to AtAurora1 (forward, 5′-NNACTAGTGGCGCGCCATGGCGATCCCTACGGAGACACAACACCAG-3′; reverse, 5′-NNGGATCCATTTAAATTTAAACTCTGTAGATTCCAGAAGGATCAGC-3′), AtAurora2 (forward, 5′-NNACTAGTGGAGCGCCATGTTGGTTAAGGAGTCTACGCAACGTTTG-3′; reverse, 5′-NNGGATCCATTTAAATGATTGTTCAAGTGGATCACAAGTTCCCTCC-3′), and AtAurora3 (forward, 5′-NNACTAGTGGCGCGCCATGAGTAAGAAATCGACAGAATCTGACGCTG-3′; reverse, 5′-NNGGATCCATTTAAATTCAAATATCAATTGAGGCACACACCTTTC-3′) full-length cDNAs were used for RT-PCR (RevertAid H Minus First Strand cDNA Synthesis kit; Fermentas, St. Leon-Rot, Germany). At the 5′-end of the primers, a 20-bp-long restriction recognition site specific for SwaI/AscI or BamHI/SpeI was added. Pooled mRNA of seedling, flower bud, root, leave, and, stem RNA was isolated using magnetic beads (Dyanal, Oslo, Norway). The RT-PCR products were cloned in pGEM-T-Easy vector (Promega, Madison, WI). To avoid contamination with genomic DNA, primers overlapping intron/exon junctions (positions indicated in Figure 1C, arrows) were selected for semiquantitative RT-PCR analysis. For RT-PCR on control genes, the following genes/primer pairs were used: cdc6 (At2g29680) (forward, 5′-GGAAATATGTGCAAGAAAAGTATCAG-3′; reverse, 5′-CAGAACAGACTATGATTTGTTGGTG-3′), e2f (At3g48160) (forward, 5′-ATCCCTCCAAAATAGATAACCGAC-3′; reverse, 5′-ATCTAAGGTGTGAGTCTTCTCTATG-3′), actin2 (At3g18780) (forward, 5′-TGGTCGTACAACCGGTATTGTGCTG-3′; reverse, 5′-TTGGAGATCCACATCTGCTGGAATG-3′), eEF1B α2 (At5g19510) (forward, 5′-AAACCTACATCTCCGGGATCAATT-3′; reverse, 5′-ACAGAAGACTTTCCACTCTCTTTAG-3′), and phosphatase TOPP2 (At5g59160) (forward, 5′-NNACTAGTGGCG CGCCATGGCGCAACAAGG-3′; reverse, 5′-NNGGATCCATTTAAATCCTCTTTACTTCAT-3′). Primers were designed to include the putative start and stop codons of the Aurora genes, resulting in the forward 5′ primers 5′-ATGGCGATCCCTACGGAGAC-3′, 5′-ATGTTGTATCAGGCGGCTTCAG-3′, and 5′-ATGAGTAAGAAATCGACAGAATCTGACG-3′ and the reverse 3′ primers 5′-AACTCTGTAGATTCCAGAAGGATCAGC-3′, 5′-TCCTCTGTAAAGGCCTGATGGG-3′, and 5′-AATATCAATTGAGGCACACACACC-3′, to amplify the open reading frames of At4g32830, At2g25880, and At2g45490, respectively. Gateway (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) attB1 and attB2 sequence extensions were added for in-frame cloning into pK7WGF2 to generate N-terminal GFP-aurora fusion products. C-terminal GFP fusion constructs were as described before (CITATION). Transgenic BY-2 calli were mixed with 150 μL of 1.5% low melting agarose and spread onto the bottom of a 1-well coverglass chamber (Lab-Tek, Naperville, IL) and covered with fresh 750 μL of fresh BY-2 medium. Chambers were incubated at room temperature for 24 h before imaging with a confocal laser-scanning microscope composed of an inverted Axiovert Zeiss 100M (Jena, Germany) and equipped with a 63× water-corrected objective (numerical aperture of 1.2) and an argon ion laser to generate 488-nm light for GFP excitation. The images were captured with the LSM510 image acquisition software (Zeiss). Images were exported as TIFF files and processed with Adobe Photoshop (Mountain View, CA). cDNA corresponding to the entire AtAurora1 and histone H3 (At1g09200) genes were cloned into vector pET33 and pET28 (Novagen, Madison, WI), respectively, and expressed in Escherichia coli (strain Rosetta-Tuna) to generate N- and C-6xHis-tag fusion peptides. These fusion peptides were purified on nickel-agarose columns (Ni-NTA Agarose; Qiagen, Valencia, CA) under denaturing conditions with pH-step elution to pH 2.5 and used after dialyses in urea step gradient. Polyclonal AtAurora and histone H3 antibodies were produced in rabbits by repeated injection over a time span of 6 weeks. The reactivity of the histone H3 antiserum was tested with the same mixture of the recombinant histone H3 protein that was used for immunization and by indirect immunolabeling of Arabidopsis nuclei (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). Plant material (200 to 300 mg) was ground under liquid nitrogen and suspended in 1 mL of solubilization buffer (56 mM Na2CO3, 56 mM DTT, 2% SDS, 12% sucrose, and 2 mM EDTA). After 10 min of incubation at 70°C, cell debris were removed by centrifugation. Forty micrograms of protein of each sample were analyzed by protein gel blotting. Protein samples were separated by SDS-PAGE in 12% polyacrylamide gels according to CITATION and CITATION and then electrotransferred onto nitrocellulose membranes. After blotting, membranes were reversibly stained with 1% ponceau red. Membranes were incubated for 12 h at 4°C in PBS and 5% low-fat milk or 2× PBS, 5% BSA, 1% PEG 3500, and 1% PVP 10, containing the appropriate antibody. Secondary anti-rabbit (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO) antibodies conjugated to horseradish peroxidase were used to reveal immunocomplexes by enhanced chemiluminescence (Pierce, Rockford, IL). Samples of the nonradioative in vitro kinase assay were transferred onto polyvinylidene difluoride membranes, and then the membranes were incubated with antibodies against histone H3 (anti-H3, as control), phosphorylated histone H3 at Thr 3 (07-424; Upstate Biotechnology, Charlottesville, VA), Ser 10 (06-570; Upstate), Thr 11 (CITATION), Ser 28 (CITATION), or at Thr 32 (ab4076; Abcam, Cambridge, UK). The open reading frame of AtAurora1 cDNA was subcloned into the pVL1392-His plasmid (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA) in frame with the N-terminal his-tag. Sf9 cells were then transfected with the pVL1392-His-AtAurora1 plasmid using CellFECTIN (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Transfected cells were tested by protein gel blot analysis for the presence of 6xHis-At-Aurora protein. The medium from these cells was used as recombinant baculoviruses stock for Sf-9 cell infection (30 mL, serum-free SF-4 medium; PromoCell, Heidelberg, Germany) for 48 h at 28°C for production of AtAurora1 protein. For immunoprecipitation, Sf9 cells containing baculovirus recombinant AtAurora1 were lysed in a buffer containing 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.4, 150 mM NaCl, 5 mM EDTA, pH 7.6, 1% Nonidet P-40, and 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride. After sonication, insoluble material was removed by centrifugation at 4°C. Approximately 300 μg of protein were immunoprecipitated by incubation at 4°C overnight with 2 μg of anti-At-Aurora1/2 rabbit antibody. The immunocomplex was precipitated after incubation with protein A-Sepharose (Amersham-Pharmacia Biotech, Uppsala, Sweden) for 1 h. The beads were washed three times with the lysis buffer and twice with PBS containing 4 nM phosphatase inhibitor Calyculin (Sigma-Aldrich). Immunoprecipitates were resuspended in a kinase assay buffer (50 mM Tris HCl, pH 7.4, 5 mM MnCl2, 10 mM MgCl2, 1 mM DTT, 5 μCi/sample ATP[32P]) and incubated for 60 min at 30°C in the presence of 4 μg of recombinant histone H3 His-tagged or 12 μg of core histone mix from calf thymus (Roche, Indianapolis, IN) together with H1 from calf thymus (Type III-S; Sigma-Aldrich). The kinase reaction was terminated by adding Laemmli sample buffer followed by boiling. Reaction mixtures were resolved by 15% SDS-PAGE, stained with Coomassie Brilliant Blue, dried, and autoradiographed. Suspensions of nuclei and mitotic metaphase chromosomes of Vicia faba were prepared as described by CITATION. Immunostaining was performed according to CITATION. Briefly, to avoid nonspecific antibody binding, slides were blocked for 30 min in 4% (w/v) BSA and 0.1% Tween 20 in PBS at room temperature before two washes in PBS for 5 min each, and incubated with the primary antirecombinant AtAurora1, anti-peptide AtAurora1 antibodies, or polyclonal rabbit antibody against histone H3 phosphorylated at Ser position 10 (Upstate Biotechnology). After 12 h incubation at 4°C and washing for 15 min in PBS, the slides were incubated with corresponding secondary antibody-fluorescence conjugates. For simultaneous immunostaining with anti-α-tubulin antibody, a microtubule stabilizing buffer (50 mM Pipes, 5 mM MgSO4, and 5 mM EGTA, pH 6.9) was used instead of PBS. The anti-α-tubulin antibody (N356; Amersham) diluted 1:50 was detected after incubation with fluorescein isothiocyanate–conjugated anti-mouse antibody (Dianova, Hamburg, Germany) diluted 1:100. Fluorescence signals were observed using a microscope equipped with epifluorescence optics. The images, recorded with a cooled CCD camera, were pseudocolored and merged using the program Adobe Photoshop. Fourty-one amino acid sequences of Aurora kinase-like proteins were inferred from ESTs or genomic DNA sequences from the EMBL nucleotide database. The sequences were aligned in ClustalX, and the alignment was manually justified where necessary. The analyses were restricted to the conserved catalytic domain, as particularly the sequences obtained from Chlamydomonas and Leishmania were much longer and rather diverse toward the C-terminal end compared with other eukaryotic sequences. The final alignment length of this part was 279 amino acids. The sequences were analyzed with neighbor-joining and maximum parsimony algorithms in PAUP* 4.0b10 (CITATION). Statistical support of the branches was tested with 500 bootstrap resamples (neighbor-joining) and 100,000 resamples with the fast stepwise addition algorithm (maximum parsimony). In all analyses, Leishmania was defined as the outgroup. Sequence data from this article have been deposited with the EMBL/GenBank data libraries under accession numbers CAH69532, CAH69533, and CAH69534.
