!~ABS~! Analysis of 80S ribosomes of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) by use of high-speed centrifugation, sucrose gradient fractionation, one- and two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, liquid chromatography purification, and mass spectrometry (matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight and electrospray ionization) identified 74 ribosomal proteins (r-proteins), of which 73 are orthologs of rat r-proteins and one is the plant-specific r-protein P3. Thirty small (40S) subunit and 44 large (60S) subunit r-proteins were confirmed. In addition, an ortholog of the mammalian receptor for activated protein kinase C, a tryptophan-aspartic acid-domain repeat protein, was found to be associated with the 40S subunit and polysomes. Based on the prediction that each r-protein is present in a single copy, the mass of the Arabidopsis 80S ribosome was estimated as 3.2 MD (1,159 kD 40S; 2,010 kD 60S), with the 4 single-copy rRNAs (18S, 26S, 5.8S, and 5S) contributing 53% of the mass. Despite strong evolutionary conservation in r-protein composition among eukaryotes, Arabidopsis 80S ribosomes are variable in composition due to distinctions in mass or charge of approximately 25% of the r-proteins. This is a consequence of amino acid sequence divergence within r-protein gene families and posttranslational modification of individual r-proteins (e.g. amino-terminal acetylation, phosphorylation). For example, distinct types of r-proteins S15a and P2 accumulate in ribosomes due to evolutionarily divergence of r-protein genes. Ribosome variation is also due to amino acid sequence divergence and differential phosphorylation of the carboxy terminus of r-protein S6. The role of ribosome heterogeneity in differential mRNA translation is discussed.
!~RES~! In a previous study, we identified 249 genes that encode 80 putative types of cytosolic r-proteins in Arabidopsis (CITATION; an update of this analysis indicates that there are 251 genes, including 17 pseudogenes, that encode the 80 types of r-proteins; http://www.arabidopsis.org/info/genefamily/athr.html). To confirm the presence of these proteins in Arabidopsis ribosomes, a ribosome pellet fraction was isolated from dark-grown suspension culture cells by detergent extraction and differential centrifugation. The majority of r-proteins are basic and a few are highly acidic (CITATION). The basic proteins were optimally separated in a first dimension basic-urea gel that achieved separation of proteins ranging in pI from 9 to 13 (CITATION). Proteins were further fractionated by apparent molecular mass in the second dimension by SDS-PAGE and stained with Coomassie Blue (Fig. 1A). The acidic and neutral proteins of the ribosome pellet fraction were optimally separated by nonequilibrium pH gel electrophoresis (NEpHGE; CITATION) in the first dimension and SDS-PAGE in the second dimension (Fig. 2A). The protein spots were excised and digested in-gel with trypsin and analyzed by either peptide mass fingerprinting (PMF) using MALDI-TOF, or tandem MS (MS/MS) using triple quadropole TOF (Q-TOF) with orthogonal MALDI (oMALDI) or electro-spray ionization (ESI) as the ion source. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The proteomic analyses of the ribosome pellet fraction resulted in the identification of 70 of the 80 types of putative cytosolic r-proteins (Table I; Supplemental Table I). These included 58 r-proteins identified with the basic-urea gel system, 15 with the NEpHGE system, and 3 with both systems (Table I; Supplemental Table I; Figs. 1, B and C, and 2B). None of the spots contained known proteins of plastid or mitochondrial ribosomes, indicating that organellar ribosomes were not abundant in the pellet fraction. The percentage of the total residues of each protein detected (sequence coverage) in peptide fragments by MALDI-TOF ranged from 14% to 70%, with more than one-half of the proteins identified with over 41% sequence coverage. MS/MS was used for peptide sequencing to confirm the identity of proteins with low sequence coverage. Peptides corresponding to the products of 2 or more distinct genes were detected for 33 of the 70 (approximately 47%) r-proteins (Supplemental Table I), consistent with the finding that most r-proteins are encoded by 3 to 4 expressed genes (CITATION). Identification of Arabidopsis r-proteins by MS analysis Arabidopsis r-protein identification follows the universally accepted nomenclature as outlined in CITATION. R-proteins resolved in 2 gel spots are designated (1) and (2). Evolutionarily distinct r-proteins are designated (I) and (II). Gel System abbreviations: 1D, 1D SDS polyacrylamide; B, 2D basic-urea; N, 2D nonequilibrium pH. Protein identification method abbreviations: M, MALDI-TOF MS; QT, oMALDI or electro-spray ionization Q-TOF MS/MS; LC/MS/MS, ribosomal and nonribosomal protein complexes were separated by Suc density centrifugation and polysomal proteins separated by 1D SDS-PAGE were digested with trypsin and analyzed; all r-proteins were identified in the Suc gradient purified polysome fraction by LC/MS/MS except P1, P3, L3, L10a, L27a, L28, L30, L35a, L37, and L38. Biochemical variation in r-proteins was apparent from the detection of 18 r-proteins (approximately 26%) identified in more than one gel spot (Table I). Of these, peptides specific to a gene family member were identified in spots corresponding to S7, S11, S15a, S19, P2, and L10a, indicating that the difference in mobility can reflect biochemical distinctions of individual gene products. For other r-proteins found in two or more spots (S6, S25, P0, L5, L10a, L18, L19, L26, and L31), the same gene product was identified in multiple spots, suggesting that the variation in apparent charge or mass could be due to covalent posttranslational modifications. For example, the product of RPL19A was resolved in 2 forms with the same migration in the basic-urea gel but with different apparent molecular masses (34 and 36 kD; Fig. 1C), whereas 2 forms of L5 and P0 had slightly different pIs (Fig. 2B). Distinctions in protein migration did not appear to be due to N-terminal acetylation (+42 D), which was confirmed for nine r-proteins (Supplemental Table I). Unequal stoichiometry of some r-proteins was suggested from the Coomassie Blue staining; however, variation in the staining intensity of both basic and acidic proteins could be due to differences in avidity of proteins to the stain. The ribosome pellet isolated by differential centrifugation reproducibly included several acidic and neutral proteins that are not r-proteins (Fig. 2B; Supplemental Table II). These proteins included core proteasome subunits, several abundant membrane proteins, a mitochondrial chaperonin, an abundant cytosolic enzyme, and a WD-repeat domain protein. To evaluate if these proteins were present in the ribosome pellet fraction due to an association with translational complexes or cosedimentation of macromolecular complexes, the pellet was subjected to Suc density gradient fractionation, the proteins in the resulting 15 fractions were separated by one-dimensional (1D) SDS-PAGE, and visualized by Coomassie Blue staining. Immunoblot analysis with anti-maize S6 and anti-yeast L15 (ortholog of rat L12) antisera, specific for small and large ribosomal subunits, respectively, was performed to identify fractions enriched in 40S and 60S subunits, 80S ribosomes, and polysomes (Fig. 3). The stained gel was divided into seven sections for the polysomal fraction, which were subjected to in-gel trypsin digestion followed by liquid chromatography (LC) coupled to Q-TOF ESI/MS/MS. In this manner, the polysome fraction was found to include 60 of the 70 r-proteins detected after 2D gel separation, as well as 4 additional putative r-proteins (Sa, S27, L37a, and L40; Table I; Supplemental Table I), bringing the total number of identified r-proteins to 74. Of the non-r-proteins detected on 2D gels, the abundant tonoplast membrane-associated reversibly glycosylated polypeptide was present in the nonpolysomal fraction and absent in the polysomal fraction, whereas proteasome α-subunits A, B, and E were identified in both fractions (Fig. 3; Supplemental Table II). [[FIGURE]] A 36-kD protein resolved as spot number 10 by NEpHGE/SDS-PAGE was identified as a WD-repeat domain protein related to mammalian receptor for activated protein kinase C, RACK1 (Fig. 2B; Supplemental Table II). Three Arabidopsis genes (At1g18080, At1g48630, and At3g18130) encode a protein with 65% amino acid sequence identity to human RACK1. Peptides corresponding to the product of 2 of these genes were detected in spot number 10 and in a 36-kD band observed in the 40S subunit, 80S ribosome, and polysome fractions (Fig. 3, arrow; Supplemental Table II). Consistent with the conclusion that the Arabidopsis RACK1 ortholog associates with ribosomes via an interaction with the 40S subunit, this protein was detected in the 40S, 80S, and polysome fractions at levels similar to that observed for r-protein S6 (Fig. 3). The detection of r-protein S6 in multiple protein spots led to the evaluation of the phosphorylation of 2 S6 gene products (RPS6A, At4g31700; RPS6B, At5g10360). S6A and S6B are 95.2% identical in amino acid sequence but have divergent carboxy termini with 5 and 3 potential phosphorylation sites, respectively. Eight forms of S6 (S6, S6a–g) were identified among the constellation of proteins with an apparent pI of 10 to 11 and molecular mass of 28 to 30 kD (Fig. 1D; Supplemental Table II). The forms S6 and S6a to d displayed more rapid mobility in the SDS-PAGE dimension than the forms S6e to g. MS analysis of each of the 8 S6 forms by in-gel trypsin-digestion and barium hydroxide-treatment provided evidence of carboxy-terminal phosphorylation in S6A and S6B (Table II). Phosphorylation (+80 D) of Ser or Thr decreases the charge of tryptic peptides and reduces the frequency of peptide ionization during MALDI-TOF MS analysis. To circumvent this difficulty, trypsin digestion was coupled with treatment with barium hydroxide, which causes β-elimination of H3PO4 (−98 D). Thus, the ions of phosphorylated peptides show an 18 mass-to-charge ratio (m/z) reduction for each phosphorylated residue. When this procedure was carried out with the extremely basic S6 form, only an unmodified carboxy-terminal peptide was detected. On the other hand, the m/z values of ions from the S6a to d digests corresponded to the predicted masses of mono-, di-, tri-, and tetra-phosphorylated S6A, respectively. Peptide ions from S6a to c were detected that also corresponded to the predicted masses of mono-, di-, and tri-phosphorylated S6B, respectively. By comparison of theoretical and observed mass values, we determined that S6a was phosphorylated at Ser-238; S6b to d were phosphorylated at Ser-238 and additional sites in the region R239LSSAAKRSVTA. The rapid migrating S6e to g forms were sequentially di-, tri-, and tetra-phosphorylated forms of S6A. Interestingly, the detection of the ion corresponding to nonphosphorylated form of the peptide K236RSR indicated that Ser-238 was skipped by the S6 kinase or dephosphorylated by an unknown phosphatase in the formation of S6e to g. Although the absence of cleavage sites in the carboxy terminus precluded identification of the exact sites of phosphorylation in some S6 forms, these results confirm extensive heterogeneity in the carboxyl-terminal phosphorylation sites of S6A and S6B. Identification of Arabidopsis S6 carboxy-terminal phosphorylation sites by MADLI-TOF MS analysis ID Method abbreviations: M, MALDI-TOF; asterisk indicates phosphorylated residue; single underscore indicates candidate phosphorylation sites within peptide. The percent amino acid sequence identity between the deduced Arabidopsis and rat r-protein orthologs was extremely consistent among gene family members, except for the RPS15a, RPP2, and RPL7 multigene families (CITATION). Evolutionary divergence among these gene families was confirmed by use of sequence alignment, pairwise distance calculations as well as distance- and parsimony-based phylogenetic analyses. Of the 6 Arabidopsis RPS15a genes, 4 (RPS15aA, RPS15aC, RPS15aD, and RPS15aF) encode a protein with 73.1% to 77.7% identity and 2 (RPS15aB and RPS15aE) encode a protein with 47.6% and 48.8% identity to rat S15a, respectively (CITATION). Eukaryotic S15a is orthologous to S8 of eubacteria, plastids, and mitochondria of lower eukaryotes (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), which binds 16S rRNA and is crucial for ribosome assembly (CITATION; CITATION). Conservation between plant and animal S15a includes the carboxy-terminal amino acid region that corresponds to an rRNA-binding site in eubacteria (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; Fig. 4A, underlined). In addition, a number of residues within this region are highly conserved in eubacterial, plastidic, and archaebacterial S8 (Fig. 4A, shaded residues). [[FIGURE]] The calculation of pairwise, uncorrected distances between Arabidopsis S8 and S15a proteins confirmed that S15a falls into 2 distinct groups: S15aA/S15aC/S15aD/S15aF (Type I) and S15aB/S15aE (Type II; Table III). This analysis revealed that evolutionary distance between Arabidopsis S15a proteins within each of the two groups was substantially less than between groups. The distance between Type I or Type II S15a to plastid S8 was quite similar, whereas the distance between Escherichia coli and plastid S8 was less than between any Arabidopsis or rat S15a, confirming that the RPS15a duplication postdates the divergence between prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Maximum parsimony and neighbor-joining evaluation of eukaryotic S15a and eubacterial, plastidic, and archaebacterial S8 amino acid sequences resolved 3 highly supported clades for eukaryotic S15a (Fig. 4B). Two clades corresponded to plants (Type I S15a and Type II S15a) and one corresponded to other eukaryotes. The plant Type I S15a grouped with S15a of rat, Drosophila, and yeast, whereas plant Type II S15a formed a strongly supported separate clade. The analysis supports the conclusion that the duplication event that led to the divergence of Arabidopsis RPS15a genes occurred prior to the divergence of monocots and eudicots. Divergence between S15a and S8 r-proteins of various species Uncorrected distances given in top matrix, total residue differences in bottom matrix. The MS analysis demonstrated that both types of S15a were present in the Arabidopsis ribosome pellet fraction, strongly supporting the conclusion that the products of both evolutionarily distinct RPS15a gene groups encode r-proteins (Fig. 1B; Table I; Supplemental Table I). Type II S15a was more acidic and was present at lower abundance than Type I S15a, as judged by the intensity of staining with Coomassie Blue (Fig. 1B). Evolutionary divergence was also evident within the r-protein P2 gene family. We showed previously that maize ribosomes possess a complex of approximately 12-kD acidic proteins composed of P1, P2a, P2b, and a related protein designated P3 (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The 5 deduced Arabidopsis P2 proteins (11.0–11.8 kD; pI of 4.2–4.4) display an unusual range in sequence identity (39.1%–57.7%) to rat P2 (CITATION). Figure 5A illustrates the considerable amino acid sequence divergence between the Arabidopsis P2 proteins. The divergence in the terminal 12 residues (E/KSD/EDMGFG/SLD) of P2C and P2E is especially notable since this region is nearly universally conserved among eukaryotic P1 and P2 (CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Use of methods to evaluate evolutionary relatedness confirmed the presence of 2 distinct P2 protein groups: P2A/P2B/P2D (Type I) and P2C/P2E (Type II; Table IV The pairwise uncorrected distances between proteins within each group were substantially less than distances between the two groups, supporting the Type I and Type II distinction. In addition, the distances between maize P2a and P2b to Arabidopsis Type I P2A, P2B, and P2D were less than the distances to Arabidopsis Type II P2C and P2E, suggesting that maize P2a and P2b are more closely related to the Type I P2 proteins. This conclusion was strengthened by the maximum parsimony evaluation of 15 P-protein amino acid sequences (Fig. 5B). Not unexpectedly, the analysis resolved the 3 clades of eukaryotic 12-kD P-proteins corresponding to P1, P2, and plant-specific P3. The plant P2 proteins separated into 3 distinct clusters corresponding to P2 proteins of monocotyledonous plants (maize and rice [Oryza sativa]) and 2 strongly supported clusters of Arabidopsis P2 proteins (Type I and Type II). The groupings of rice and maize P2a and P2b suggest the duplication event that led to 2 forms of P2 occurred prior to the divergence of rice and maize but after the divergence of monocots and eudicots. The MS analysis of the acidic proteins confirmed the presence of both evolutionary groups of P2 in the ribosome pellet (Fig. 2B; Table I; Supplemental Table I). The evolutionarily divergent Type II P2 appeared to be present in substoichiometric amounts based on the intensity of staining with Coomassie Blue. Divergence between P2 r-proteins of various species Uncorrected distances given in top matrix, total residue differences in bottom matrix. The Arabidopsis genome encodes 3 L7-type proteins with approximately 60% identity (L7B, L7C, and L7D) and one L7-type protein (L7A) with 38% identity to rat L7 (CITATION). R-protein L7 is the ortholog of eubacterial and archaebacterial L30. Distance calculations and phylogenetic analyses confirmed that L7 polypeptide sequences of plants fall into 2 evolutionarily distinct categories due to a divergence within the plant lineage that predates the monocot and eudicot divergence (Supplemental Fig. 1). The MS analysis confirmed the presence of the L7 type encoded by RPL7B, RPL7C, and RPL7D in the ribosome pellet fraction; however, the product of RPL7A was not detected in ribosomes even though the gene transcript accumulated in the cultured cells (data not shown). The predicted mass of the Arabidopsis 40S subunit is 1,159 kD, based on the presence of the 18S rRNA (At2g01010; 554 kD), a single copy of the 30 small subunit r-proteins, and the RACK1-like protein. Similarly, the predicted mass of the Arabidopsis 60S subunit is 2,010 kD, based on the presence of 3 rRNAs (26S, At2g01030, 1,038 kD; 5.8S, At2g01020, 50 kD; and 5S, AP002054, 37 kD) and a single copy of the 44 large subunit proteins, including 1 of each of the 12 kD P-proteins (P1, P2 Type I, P2 Type II, and P3). Thus, the Arabidopsis 80S ribosome is approximately 3.2 MD, with 53% of the mass contributed by rRNA. The ribosome mass could vary slightly due to covalent posttranslational modifications of r-proteins, the presence of the small r-proteins not detected by MS (S29, S30, L29, L36a, L39, and L41), and/or the absence or presence of dispensable r-proteins, such as Sa and individual P-proteins (CITATION; CITATION).
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) Columbia ecotype suspension cultured cells derived from seedling callus tissue (gift of Dr. E. Nothnagel, University of California, Riverside [UCR]) were cultured in Gamborg's B-5 medium (CITATION) in the dark at 25°C with aeration by shaking at 140 rpm and subculture every 7 d. Five days after subculture, cells (10 g fresh weight) were filtered through Miracloth (Calbiochem, La Jolla, CA) and ground to a fine powder under liquid nitrogen with a mortar and pestle. Ribosomes were isolated by use of the procedure described previously (CITATION). Briefly, the powder was hydrated in 20 mL ribosome extraction buffer and ribosomes were obtained by centrifugation through a Suc cushion at 135,000g for 21 h at 4°C. The ribosome pellet was resuspended, quantified, and rRNA was removed. To fractionate basic proteins, 6 mg of proteins were separated in a basic-urea first-dimensional gel and an SDS-polyacrylamide second-dimension gel (CITATION). To fractionate acidic proteins, 6 mg of proteins were separated by NEpHGE and then by SDS-PAGE as described previously (CITATION). For both gel systems, the second-dimension separation was by 12% or 15% (w/v) SDS-PAGE (CITATION) and proteins were stained with Coomassie Blue R-250. Individual Coomassie Blue stained proteins (spots) were manually excised out of gels along the inside edge of the stained protein and destained as described (CITATION). Gel slices were dried in a vacuum and hydrated in 60 μL trypsin (Promega, Madison, WI) solution at either 20 μg/mL for proteins with an apparent molecular mass <20 kD or 40 μg/mL for proteins with an apparent molecular mass >20 kD in 25 mm ammonium bicarbonate, pH 8.0. In-gel digestion was performed for 16 h at 37°C, tryptic peptides were eluted with 50% (v/v) acetonitrile, 5% (v/v) trifluoroacetic acid, and dried under a vacuum. For the identification of phosphorylated residues in peptides, the trypsin solution was supplemented with 0.002% (w/v) barium hydroxide (Alderich, Milwaukee, WI) and peptides were processed as described previously (CITATION). MALDI-TOF MS (Voyager-DE STR, PerSpective Biosystems, Foster City, CA), Q-Star XL oMALDI MS/MS (PerSpective Biosystems), Q-TOF ESI LC/MS/MS (Waters, Milford, MA) were performed in the Keck Proteomics Laboratory Biological Mass Spectrometry Facility and the Analytical Chemistry Instrument Facility at UCR. MALDI-TOF MS analyses were performed in positive reflectron mode. All MS spectra were internally calibrated with two trypsin auto-cleavage peptides (m/z values, 842.5100 and 2211.1046) to ensure mass accuracy. MS peak signals were filtered with minimum peak intensity of 3% of the most intense ion as a cutoff. Protein identification by PMF was performed using the MS-FIT algorithm of ProteinProspector (http://prospector.ucsf.edu) to search against the National Center for Biotechnology Information nonredundant (NCBInr) protein database or a local database of Arabidopsis r-proteins. The criteria for a positive PMF hit were a minimum of 4 peptide ions matched within a mass tolerance of 80 ppm, with 2 missed trypsin cleavage sites allowed. Protein identification was based on at least two biological replica samples. Both Q-Star oMALDI MS/MS and Q-TOF LC/MS/MS were used to confirm protein identifications by PMF, particularly on spots with ambiguity. Selected individual peptide ions were analyzed by collision-induced dissociation to generate sequence-dependent MS/MS spectra. With Q-Star oMALDI MS/MS, acquisition of collision-induced dissociation spectra was performed manually to achieve optimal fragmentation and signal intensity. For mixed protein samples in gel slices from 1D-SDS PAGE gels, Q-TOF LC/MS/MS analyses were employed with a survey scan method described previously (CITATION). MS/MS spectra were processed and queried against the NCBInr protein database using the MASCOT algorithm (http://www.matrixscience.com) for protein identification. De novo sequencing analysis was performed for some MS/MS spectra. Phosphopeptides were identified by use of an algorithm prepared to identify carboxy-terminal peptides of RPS6A (At4g31700) and RPS6B (At5g10360) with the mass expected or reduced by a multiple of 18 kD, due to barium-hydroxide modification of phospho-residues. Peptides were identified with a Δ mass value (observed mass − theoretical mass) less than ± 1.0 D. Five days after subculture, cells (5 g fresh weight) were filtered, ground to a fine powder under liquid nitrogen, and used for fractionation of complexes from detergent-treated extracts through Suc gradients (CITATION; CITATION). After resuspension of the pulverized cells in 10 mL ribosome extraction buffer and centrifugation at 16,000g to remove cell debris, 500 μL of supernatant was loaded onto a 4.8-mL 20% to 60% (w/v) Suc gradient, centrifuged at 275,000g for 2 h at 4°C (Beckman, L8-M centrifuge SW-55 rotor), and passed through a UA-5 Detector and 185 gradient fractionator (ISCO, Lincoln, NE) attached to a fraction collector. Proteins in each fraction were precipitated by addition of 2 volumes of 99% (v/v) ethanol, incubation on ice for 6 h, and centrifugation at 4°C for 15 min at 16,000g, washed with 70% (v/v) ethanol, air-dried, and separated by 15% (w/v) SDS-PAGE. Proteins were subjected to Coomassie Blue R-250 staining or transfer to a nitrocellulose membrane for immunodetection with a 1:2,000 dilution of rabbit polyclonal antiserum against maize S6 (CITATION), a 1:10,000 dilution of rabbit polyclonal antiserum against yeast L15 (ortholog of Arabidopsis L12; CITATION), or with a 1:200 dilution of affinity-purified rabbit polyclonal antiserum prepared against the peptide K273VDLKAEAKADNSGPAAT291 encoded by the Arabidopsis RACK1 ortholog (At1g18080; Abgent, La Jolla, CA). Amino acid sequence alignments were generated using ClustalW (http://www.cmbi.kun.nl/bioinf/tools/clustalw.shtml; CITATION) and were adjusted manually upon visual inspection (alignments available upon request). Pairwise uncorrected distances were calculated using PAUP test version 4.0b10 (PPC/Altivec; Sinauer Associates, Sunderland, MA). The aligned polypeptide sequences were subjected to maximum parsimony and neighbor-joining analyses (p-distances) using PAUP. Parsimony analyses were conducted using the heuristic search algorithm with 500 random input orders and tree bisection-reconnection branch swapping. The reliability of the phylogenies identified by neighbor joining and maximum parsimony was estimated using bootstrapping with 500 replicates and 1 input order/replicate.
