!~ABS~! Formins are actin-organizing proteins that are involved in cytokinesis and cell polarity (CITATION) . In the plant Arabidopsis thaliana, there are more than 20 formin homologues, all of which have unknown roles (CITATION) . In this study, we characterize specific cellular and molecular functions of the Arabidopsis formin AtFH5. Despite the low identity of AtFH5 to yeast and mammalian formins, the AtFH5 protein interacts with the barbed end of actin filaments and nucleates actin-filament polymerization in vitro, as is the case in yeast and mammals. In vivo, the AtFH5–GFP fusion protein localizes to the cell plate, a plant-specific membranous component that is assembled at the plane of cell division. Consistent with these data, loss of function of atfh5 compromises cytokinesis in the seed endosperm. Furthermore, endogenous AtFH5 transcripts accumulate in the posterior pole of the endosperm and loss of function of atfh5 perturbs proper morphogenesis of the endosperm posterior pole. Although cytokinesis in animals, yeast and plants occurs through morphologically distinct mechanisms, our study finds that formin recruitment to sites of actin assembly is a common feature of cell division among eukaryotes.
!~RES~! Formins are highly conserved proteins that are implicated in many actin-requiring processes (CITATION) , such as cytokinesis, establishment of egg polarity and formation of stress fibres. In the enhancer-trap KS117 line, the expression pattern of which provides a polarity marker for endosperm development (CITATION) , we have identified the corresponding T-DNA insertion that is localized in the upstream region of AtFH5 and that belongs to the Arabidopsis formin homology (FH) family (CITATION) (Fig. 1a). The FH2 domain of AtFH5 shares ∼35% identity with other eukaryote formins and retains many highly conserved residues (see Supplementary Information, Fig. S1). By contrast, the amino terminus of AtFH5 is highly divergent from non-plant formins and shares the predicted domains that are typical of type-I Arabidopsis formins (CITATION) (Fig. 1b, c). In the homologous AtFH1, this N-terminal domain is required for localization to the cell membrane (CITATION) . [[FIGURE]] In yeasts, actin patches depend on Arp2/3 complexes and cables of actin filaments depend on formins. The FH2 domain can nucleate actin filaments that grow at their barbed ends in vitro (CITATION) and can control actin assembly in vivo (CITATION) . Recent studies in Arabidopsis showed that extensive actin filaments can be nucleated in the absence of Arp2/3 complexes (CITATION) , indicating that a potential role may exist for formins in plants. To test whether AtFH5 nucleates actin polymerization in vitro, we purified two carboxy-terminal constructs of AtFH5 fused to glutathione S-transferase (GST) (Fig. 2a). FH1–FH2–Cter consists of FH1, FH2 and C-terminal domains, and FH2–Cter consists of the FH2 and C-terminal domains. Pyrene-labelled actin monomers were incubated alone or in the presence of FH1–FH2–Cter and assembly was monitored by pyrene fluorescence (Fig. 2b). FH1–FH2–Cter decreased the initial lag of the actin polymerization curve in a concentration-dependent manner, corresponding to active nucleation (Fig. 2b). Elongation of actin filaments nucleated by FH1–FH2–Cter with actin monomers bound to profilin confirms that these filaments are growing at their barbed ends (data not shown). The concentration of new barbed ends is strongly dependent on the presence of FH1–FH2–Cter (Fig. 2c). The curve plateaus at a high concentration of FH1–FH2–Cter because elongation of actin filaments rapidly consumes actin monomers before each formin can form new filaments (Fig. 2c). This observation is in agreement with a previous report of actin nucleation by Arp2/3 complexes (CITATION) . Filament length is inversely correlated to the concentration of nucleation centres. Accordingly, actin filaments are markedly shorter in the presence of FH1–FH2–Cter (mean length, 5.3 ±5 μm) (Fig. 2e) than alone (mean length, 18 ±17 μm) (Fig. 2d). [[FIGURE]] To initially ascertain barbed-end dynamics in the presence of AtFH5, a constant concentration of actin filaments was incubated with increasing concentrations of FH1–FH2–Cter before the addition of labelled actin monomers (Fig. 2f). The initial rate of elongation, which is proportional to the number of available free actin-filament barbed ends, decreased as we increased the FH1–FH2–Cter concentration. This indicates that the barbed ends of preformed filaments were capped with high affinity (Kd∼32 nM) by pre-incubation with FH1–FH2–Cter (Fig. 2f). In addition, pyrene-labelled actin filaments were diluted below the barbed-end critical concentration (0.1 μM) in the presence of increasing amounts of FH1–FH2–Cter (Fig. 2g). The initial rate of depolymerization decreased with increased FH1–FH2–Cter concentration, again in agreement with a barbed-end capping activity. Interestingly, the FH2–Cter protein has no effect on actin nucleation (Fig. 2h). However, FH2–Cter inhibits the actin nucleation that is driven by FH1–FH2–Cter, indicating that FH2–Cter competes with FH1–FH2–Cter for binding actin monomers. The biochemical analysis of AtFH5 indicates that the actin-organizing activity of formins is conserved throughout eukaryotes. To determine if such nucleating activity could also be related to cytokinesis, we examined AtFH5 subcellular localization in roots in which AtFH5 is expressed in the wild type. AtFH5 was tagged with green fluorescent protein (GFP) and expressed in transgenic Arabidopsis plants. We used the constitutive CaMV 35S promoter that enables dynamic observations in roots, with enhanced optical resolution in comparison to that seen in endosperm. Fluorescence microscopy showed that AtFH5–GFP fluorescence accumulates in the cell plate of dividing root cells (Fig. 3). The AtFH5–GFP signal follows the expanding plate over time and its intensity gradually reduces after contact is made between the cell plate and the parent cell wall. The dynamic localization of AtFH5 protein to the cell plate indicates that AtFH5 has a role in cytokinesis. A fluorescent dotted pattern of undetermined identity was also observed in the cytoplasm (Fig. 3) and might not reflect the true localization of AtFH5, as potential artifacts may be associated with overexpression of AtFH5–GFP. [[FIGURE]] The endosperm in the Arabidopsis plant seed provides a simple and tractable system for studying cytokinesis within a multinucleate single cell (CITATION) . Endosperm development involves a series of successive nuclear divisions that are devoid of cytokinesis, generating a syncytium (CITATION) . After eight rounds of division, the syncytium contains approximately 200 nuclei that become partitioned into mononucleate cells by a cytokinetic mechanism that is referred to as cellularization (CITATION) . Cellularization initiates from the anterior pole, where the embryo develops, and continues towards peripheral endosperm, ending at the posterior pole that remains syncytial (CITATION) . Nuclei at this pole are included in large multinucleate structures called nodules that gradually migrate and eventually fuse with the cyst at the most posterior location (CITATION) . As the GFP activity in the AtFH5-tagged KS117 line indicated a role for this gene in endosperm development (CITATION) , we examined the AtFH5 expression pattern during seed development. AtFH5 mRNAs were localized in the endosperm by in situ hybridization on seed sections. A strong expression was specific to the posterior pole in the cyst (Fig. 4a) and in nodules on top of the cyst (Fig. 4a, inset). No expression was detectable in the anterior and peripheral endosperm or in other seed compartments (such as the embryo and the seed coat). Expression of AtFH5 was further confirmed in transgenic Arabidopsis expressing the nuclear fluorescent reporter HISTONE2B–YELLOW FLUORESCENT PROTEIN (H2B–YFP) under the control of the AtFH5 upstream region. H2B–YFP is first detected in the posterior endosperm early in development (Fig. 4c) and remains restricted to the posterior pole (Fig. 4d) throughout the syncytial phase. This pattern persists after endosperm cellularization (Fig. 4e). Together, these two experiments indicate that AtFH5 expression is restricted to the posterior pole throughout endosperm development. However, a GFP activity was also detected in the anterior and peripheral syncytial endosperm in the KS117 line (CITATION) , indicating that the enhancer activity detected by KS117 GFP does not entirely mimic the endogenous AtFH5 pattern. [[FIGURE]] To gain insight into AtFH5 function during endosperm development, we examined two atfh5 insertional mutant lines (Fig. 5a, top). Reverse transcription PCR (RT-PCR) expression analyses with primers downstream of the insertions revealed no AtFH5 transcripts (Fig. 5a, bottom). A barely detectable level of AtFH5 transcripts was obtained with primers that were positioned upstream of the insertions. These atfh5 mutations probably result in loss of function as neither of the two mutants expresses the actin-organizing domains of AtFH5. Although AtFH5 is expressed in most tissues, we could not detect any phenotypes in vegetative organs, probably due to the redundant function with other formins. Microscopic examination of atfh5;atfh5 seeds revealed perturbation of endosperm cellularization. Cleared siliques were used to score the onset of cellularization in wild-type and atfh5 mutant lines (Fig. 5b). Whereas most wild-type endosperm is cellularized by the heart embryo stage, cellularization was delayed at that embryo stage in atfh5 endosperm. Nevertheless, cellularization occurred in the endosperm of both mutant alleles later — during the late heart embryo stage when wild-type endosperm is completely cellularized. To ascertain the origin of the delay of cellularization in atfh5 endosperm, we compared the onset of cellularization between wild-type and atfh5 endosperm. In the wild-type endosperm, cellularization occurs after nuclei division and is initially marked by a cell plate between separating sister nuclei (CITATION) . This is rarely seen in fixed tissue (circa 0.02%; n > 5,000), as complete cellularization is rapidly achieved by the formation of cell plates between non-sister nuclei (Fig. 5c, d; also see Supplementary Information, Fig. S2). In contrast to the wild type, this early cellularization step was frequently observed in atfh5 endosperm (a few seeds per silique at appropriate stages; n > 500), indicating a delay of this cytokinetic process (Fig. 5g; also see Supplementary Information, Figs S2,S3a, b). This would indicate that the time required for cell-plate formation and maturation is prolonged without wild-type AtFH5. Accordingly, binucleate cells were detected in atfh5-2 endosperm (see Supplementary Information, Fig. S2). As AtFH5 transcripts seem to be confined to the posterior pole, the effects of atfh5 mutations on cellularization in other parts of the endosperm could be explained if AtFH5 protein is translocated from the posterior pole towards the other domains of the endosperm. [[FIGURE]] In addition to defective cellularization, atfh5 mutations perturb the ontogenesis of the cyst at the endosperm posterior pole (Fig. 5f, h; also see Supplementary Information, Fig. S3c). At the embryo heart stage in the wild-type endosperm, cyst formation was evident in most seeds, with only 8.1% of seeds (n = 62) containing a weakly discernible cyst (Fig. 5c, e). However, a complete absence of cyst structure was observed in 18.8% of the atfh5-1 seeds (n = 64), although nodules were consistently apparent around the site at which a cyst would normally form (Fig. 5f, h). A similar reduction of cyst was observed in atfh5-2 endosperm (see Supplementary Information, Fig. S3c). Cyst formation requires directional migration of nuclei towards the basal posterior endosperm to generate the cyst (CITATION) . The cytoskeletal tracks that are required for directional nuclei movement could involve either the microtubule or actin-based network, as both kind of cytoskeleton are present at the posterior pole in an Arabidopsis relative (CITATION) . We hypothesize that AtFH5 acts on the dynamics of specialized cytoskeletons, thereby enabling local nuclei migration towards the cyst. We attempted dynamic visualization of actin cytoskeleton in the wild-type endosperm, with the GFP fused to the actin-binding domain of mouse talin protein (CITATION) under the control of the ACTIN11 promoter (CITATION) . This generated diffuse patterns of fluorescence in the posterior pole. This may be due to insufficient optical resolution or to artefacts generated by GFP–Talin (CITATION) . No labelling was detected in other parts of the endosperm. Dynamic localization of AtFH5 will be necessary to further understand the role of formin during endosperm development. We find that Arabidopsis type-I formin AtFH5 has biochemical activity that is similar to yeast and mammalian formins (CITATION) . In vitro purified FH1–FH2–Cter fragments of AtFH5 nucleate actin filaments that grow at their barbed ends. Surprisingly, in contrast to mammalian (CITATION) and yeast formins (CITATION) , this activity is not supported by the FH2–Cter fragment of AtFH5 alone, indicating that FH1 domain and the few amino acids between the FH1 and FH2 domains are necessary for nucleating activity. Cytokinesis in plants has been thought to involve mostly microtubule-dependent structures and vesicular transport (CITATION) , in contrast to animal cytokinesis in which actin and contractile forces have a major role (CITATION) . However, during plant cytokinesis, short actin filaments are assembled de novo at the cell plate (CITATION) . The role of actin in this compartment is unclear, but microinjection of profilin, a formin-interacting protein, delays or completely inhibits cell-plate formation (CITATION) , and actin-depolymerizing drugs affect cell-plate guidance (CITATION) . Based on AtFH5 localization and its biochemical properties, these short actin filaments would be assembled through a formin-dependent mechanism that is not exclusive to AtFH5, as atfh5 loss of function shows a delayed cytokinesis in endosperm and not in vegetative tissues. In endosperm, atfh5 loss of function partially affects cytokinesis and morphogenesis. The eventual cellularization and formation of a cyst at the posterior endosperm in atfh5 mutants could be attributed to functional redundancy with other related formins (CITATION) . In the atfh5 mutants, cell-plate expansion between sister and non-sister nuclei was conspicuously stalled during cellularization, indicating that AtFH5 is required for completion of cytokinesis. Subcellular localization of AtFH5–GFP to the incipient and expanding cell plate in roots further supports a role in cell-plate maturation. Similar to atfh5 mutants, completion of the cell plate during cytokinesis is delayed in plant cells that overexpress phragmoplastin (CITATION) . Phragmoplastin is a dynamin-like protein that is associated with membranous vesicle fusion at the cell plate (CITATION) . One hypothesis to explore is that newly polymerized short actin filaments at the cell plate would participate in fine-tuning vesicle trafficking and fusion, enabling optimized membrane reconstitution as the cell plate expands. Our study highlights the importance of actin and associated regulators, including formins, for the completion of higher-plant cytokinesis (as is the case in animals). It therefore becomes probable that, together with microtubules and vesicle trafficking, actin filaments participate in higher-plant and animal cytokinesis but use distinct scaffolds.
!~MM~! The KS117 (C24 accession) line was identified in the Jim Haseloff's enhancer-trap GFP line collection (http://www.plantsci.cam.ac.uk/Haseloff). The atfh5-1 (Ws accession, FST 542F06) and atfh5-2 (Columbia accession, SALK_044464) mutants were obtained from the T-DNA mutant collections of INRA Versailles and the SALK institute, respectively. Plants were grown as reported previously (CITATION) . Sequences of flanking regions of the KS117 (C24 accession) line were identified and used to determine the position of the T-DNA insertion by homology searches against the Arabidopsis thaliana (Columbia accession) genome (http://www.arabidopsis.org/). The KS117 insertion is located in the upstream region of the At5g65540 gene. The corresponding gene in the C24 accession was amplified by PCR and entirely sequenced; it features the same exon–intron structure. Two deleted AtFH5 fragments — FH1–FH2–Cter and FH2–Cter — were amplified by PCR from a RAFL clone containing AtFH5 cDNA (pda02156; RIKEN BioResource Center, Japan) using SalI-R (5′-TTAGTCTGAATCTGAACTAGACTGATCCACG-3′) with SalI-FH1 (5′-AGGTCGACGATCAGGGAAGTCTTTTTCTGGA-3′) or SalI-FH2 (5′-AGGTCGACgattagatgatgatgctcccaaaa-3′) primers. Error-free SalI-PCR fragments were ligated to a pGEX-4T1 vector (Promega, Charbonnieres, France) that was linearized by a SalI restriction enzyme. These constructs were overexpressed in the RosettaBlue (DE3)pLysS strain of Escherichia coli (Novagen, Madison, WI). Cultures were resuspended in extraction buffer (25 mM Tris (pH 7.5), 500 mM NaCl, 5% glycerol, 0.1% Triton X-100, 1 mM EDTA and 1 mM dithiothreitol), with protease inhibitor cocktail. After sonication and centrifugation (at 23,000 g for 30 min), supernatants were incubated with gluthatione-sepharose 4B (Amersham, Piscataway, NJ), washed with TBSE (25 mM Tris (pH 7.5), 500 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA and 1 mM dithiothreitol) and eluted with 100 mM glutathione in TBSE or cleaved with thrombin before elution with TBSE. Eluted proteins were dialysed against storage buffer (25 mM Tris (pH 8.0), 50 mM KCl, 1 mM EDTA, 1 mM dithiothreitol and 1 mM azide) and concentrated with Centriprep YM-30 (Amicon, Bedford, MA) and used directly or flash frozen in liquid nitrogen. Actin (10% pyrene-labelled) was polymerized by the addition of 1:9 dilution of 10x KMEI (500 mM KCl, 10 mM MgCl2, 10 mM EGTA and 100 mM imidazole at pH 7.0). Actin polymerization in the presence of AtFH5 purified proteins was followed by changes in pyrene fluorescence (excitation at 365 nm and emission at 407 nm) using a MOS450 Bio-Logic fluorimeter (Bio-Logic-Science Instruments SA, Claix, France) or a Xenius SAFAS (Safas SA, Monaco). Elongation or depolymerization assays to follow the capping activity of purified AtFH5 constructs have been described previously (CITATION) . Both purified FH1–FH2–Cter and FH2–Cter proteins lacking the GST tag showed properties similar to those of GST–FH1–FH2–Cter and GST–FH2–Cter, indicating that the GST tag does not contribute to any of the tested activities (Fig. 2b, h). All purified proteins were tested before or after freezing with no change in activities (Fig. 2b, h). PCR reactions were performed with the Expand High Fidelity kit (Roche Diagnostics, Brussels, Belgium). All the promoter fusion (AtFH5::H2B–YFP) and protein fusion (35S::AtFH5–EGFP) constructs were generated with the Gateway cloning technology (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). Primers with attB1 and attB2 sequences were purchased from Invitrogen. Details of plasmids can be found in Supplementary Methods. Arabidopsis plants were transformed using the Agrobacterium-mediated floral dip method (CITATION) . Primary seed transformants were selectively grown on MS medium supplemented with kanamycin (50 μg/ml). Expression of AtFH5 in both mutant lines was analysed by RT-PCR. Briefly, total RNA was extracted from siliques using RNeasy kit (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany). cDNA was produced with oligo(dT) primer and SuperScript II reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen). One-tenth of each cDNA sample was added to PCR reactions using primers F-FH52F (5′-AACAATCATTAGCACCAACTCTTC-3′) and R-FH52R (5′-ATTGCCGATTCTACAGCTTTTTG-3′) to amplify the 5′untranslated region of the AtFH5 transcript, and FH5F2754 (5′-GTGCAAGCAAACCCAGAACATTCAATGGT-3′) and FH5R3074 (5′-GTCTGAATCTGAACTAGACTGATCCACG-3′) to amplify the 3′ untranslated region of the AtFH5 transcript. Fluorescence of H2B–YFP and AtFH5–GFP protein fusions was analysed using confocal laser scanning microscopy on a LSM-510 CLSM or an inverted Axiovert Zeiss 100 M microscope (Zeiss, Jena, Germany). Seeds of transgenic F2 lines for AtFH5::H2B–YFP constructs were analysed with the GFP excitation setting. The two valves of siliques were removed and lines of seeds still connected to the septum were freshly mounted in Murashige and Skoog culture medium (Sigma, Saint-Quentin Fallavier, France) supplemented with 0.3% (w/v) plant agar (Duchefa, The Netherlands). For each construct, H2B–YFP activity showed similar expression patterns. Seedlings (F2 generation) overexpressing AtFH5–GFP were imaged with excitation settings (488 nm for GFP, 543 nm for propidium iodide 2 d after germination. The images were captured with the LSM510 image acquisition software (Zeiss). Digital image processing was performed with Photoshop 7 and Illustrator 9 (Adobe Systems, San Jose, CA). Actin filaments were observed in vitro by epifluorescence illumination, as previously reported (CITATION) , with a Zeiss-Axioplan microscope. Digital images were collected with a Hamamatsu ORCA charge-coupled camera using Axiovision software (Zeiss). To study the phenotype of endosperm in atfh5 mutants, seeds were fixed and analysed by confocal microscopy as described previously (CITATION) . To quantify the delay in endosperm cellularization of atfh5 mutants, seeds at selected stages of embryo development — ranging from the early heart to the torpedo stage — were dissected from individual siliques and cleared in Hoyer's medium (CITATION) . The phenotype was analysed by microscopy using differential interference contrast (DIC) optics (Optiphot, Nikon, Japan) coupled with a AxioCam MRc digital camera (Zeiss). Images were processed with Axiovision software (Zeiss). Seeds were fixed overnight in 4% paraformaldehyde. The tissues were dehydrated by means of a graded series of ethanol and embedded in Paraplast Plus (Sigma). Two PCR products containing T7 polymerase promoter in either orientation were obtained with T7-F2754 (5′-T7-TGCAAGCAAACCCAGAACATTCAATGG-3′) and R3384 (5′-CAAAAGCCATTTCTTCATGGAGTGTACACA-3′) or F2754 and T7-R3384 primers. The sense and antisense RNA probes were synthesized from purified PCR fragments with incorporation of digoxigenin (DIG RNA Labelling Kit, Roche Biochemicals, Brussels, Belgium). The prehybridization, hybridization and washes were performed as described previously (CITATION) . The hybridization signals were analysed with a Nikon (Tokyo, Japan) microscope using DIC optics. The GenBank accession number of At5g54650 (C24 accession) is Y581683. Note: Supplementary Information is available on the Nature Cell Biology website.
