!~ABS~! Plants acclimate to variations in light intensity by changing the antenna size of photosystems. This acclimation allows them to undergo efficient photosynthesis and creates a protective strategy to minimize photodamage. Chlorophyll b synthesis by chlorophyllide a oxygenase (CAO) is a key regulatory step in the control of antenna size. Recently, we found that higher plant CAOs consist of three domains (A, B, and C domains) and confirmed that the C domain possesses catalytic function. To investigate the function of the A domain, we fused various combinations of these three domains with green fluorescent protein (GFP) and introduced them into Arabidopsis thaliana. When a full-length CAO-GFP fusion protein was introduced into a chlorophyll b–less chlorina1-1 mutant, chlorophyll b accumulated to almost the same levels as in the chlorophyll b–containing Columbia wild type, but the CAO-GFP could not be detected by immunoblotting. By contrast, when a GFP-C domain fusion was introduced into chlorina1-1 or Columbia wild type, a large amount of GFP-C domain protein accumulated and the chlorophyll a/b ratio decreased drastically from 3.6 to 2.2 in Columbia wild type. When an A domain-GFP was introduced into Columbia wild type, A domain-GFP levels were very low. Conversely, a large amount of the protein accumulated when it was introduced into the chlorina1-1 mutant. These results indicate that the A domain may sense the presence of chlorophyll b and regulate the accumulation of CAO protein in the chloroplasts.
!~RES~! Using cyanobacteria as a model system, CITATION reported that AtCAO consists of three domains (Figure 1A) and demonstrated that the C domain alone can catalyze the conversion of chlorophyll a to chlorophyll b. To assess the functions of the A domains in higher plants, we constructed transgenic Arabidopsis plants that constitutively overexpress full-length or truncated CAO proteins lacking their A or C domain (Figure 1B). These constructs were ectopically overexpressed under the control of the Cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. Green fluorescent protein (GFP) was fused to CAO domains so that the amount and localization of the transgene products could be readily monitored by microscopic analyses (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Because CAO is a chloroplast protein, it was important that the transgene constructs be designed to encode a transit peptide that would facilitate import specific for chloroplasts. To date, the exact transit peptide sequence for CAO has not been determined experimentally; thus, we predicted the transit peptide region in the CAO sequence according to the methods of CITATION and CITATION. CITATION proposed that the transit peptides of higher plants have a common secondary β-turn/β-sheet/α-helix structure. In the CAO sequence, computer-assisted analysis predicted that the N-terminal 50 residues fold into this same structure. A neural network–based method for cleavage site predictions developed by CITATION predicted that the transit sequence is cleaved after the first 36 residues. Furthermore, the N-terminal 56 residues were not highly conserved between AtCAO and OsCAO. Thus, we hypothesized that the N-terminal 56 residues contain a transit peptide that would facilitate import into chloroplasts. As a method to confirm that the N-terminal 56 residues of CAO sufficiently guided the transgene products to the chloroplasts, we analyzed transgenic plants that overexpressed the N-terminal 56 residues (tp) fused to GFP (tp-GFP; Figure 1B). GFP signals in the transgenic tp-GFP plants were observed exclusively in the chloroplasts (Figure 2C). By contrast, GFP constructs that lacked the N-terminal 56 residues (GFP) did not target to chloroplasts (data not shown). Based on these experiments, the N-terminal 56 residues were used to guide transgene products to chloroplasts in the experiments that followed (Figure 1B). [[FIGURE]] Before constructing transgenic plants that overexpressed CAO proteins lacking A or C domains, we produced transgenic plants that overexpress the entire CAO sequence fused to GFP. This experiment was designed to determine whether an intact native CAO protein is required for chlorophyll b biosynthesis. It has been reported that either C- or N-terminal GFP fusion influences protein functions in different manners (CITATION). Thus, we tested the effect of GFP fusion to either the C or the N terminus (tp-ABC-GFP or tp-GFP-ABC; Figure 1B) on chlorophyll b biosynthesis and intracellular CAO localization. The constructs (tp-ABC-GFP or tp-GFP-ABC) were introduced into a Columbia background chlorophyll b–less mutant, chlorina1-1 (ch1-1). This mutant contains a 31-bp deletion in the intrinsic CAO gene and is rendered unable to synthesize chlorophyll b (CITATION). Because ch1-1 lacks the ability to synthesize chlorophyll b, any chlorophyll b accumulation resulting from transformation with our various gene constructs would allow us to individually assess the contribution of transgene products to chlorophyll b synthesis. Overexpression of the CAO-GFP fusion proteins complemented the chlorophyll b–less phenotype of ch1-1. Specifically, transgenic ch1-1 plants overexpressing the full-length CAO fused to GFP at the C terminus (tp-ABC-GFP) or the N terminus (tp-GFP-ABC) showed similar chlorophyll a/b ratios of 3.39 or 3.57, respectively (Table 1). These values were similar to that of the Columbia wild type (3.68). Total chlorophyll levels per fresh weight of rosette leaves of ch1-1 mutant were ∼25% of Columbia wild-type levels; however, chlorophyll levels were rescued by overexpression of either tp-ABC-GFP or tp-GFP-ABC (Table 1). Therefore, we conclude that GFP fusion to either the C or the N terminus of CAO does not interfere with chlorophyll b biosynthesis. Overexpression of the full-length CAO fused to GFP proteins (tp-ABC-GFP or tp-GFP-ABC) slightly decreased the chlorophyll a/b ratio in the Columbia wild-type background (Table 1). These results indicate that overexpression of the CAO gene by the CaMV 35S promoter only slightly increased the rate of chlorophyll b biosynthesis. Chlorophyll Accumulation in the Transformants As a method to determine intracellular and intraorganelle localization, transgenic plants overexpressing the full-length CAO-GFP fusions (tp-ABC-GFP or tp-GFP-ABC) were examined by confocal microscopy. However, GFP signals were not observed in any of the full-length CAO-GFP plants that regained chlorophyll b–synthesizing capacity (Figures 2E, 2F, 2I, and 2J). The ABC-GFP and GFP-ABC proteins were not detected by immunoblotting with either anti-GFP or anti-CAO antibodies in transgenic plants overexpressing mRNA for the full-length CAO-GFP fusion (Figures 3A, 3B, and 4). The results of confocal microscopy and immunoblot analysis suggest that a low level accumulation of CAO protein was sufficient for normal chlorophyll b biosynthesis. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We constructed transgenic plants that overexpressed the C domain of CAO fused to GFP (tp-GFP-BC; Figure 1B) in the Columbia wild type and ch1-1 mutants. The chlorophyll a/b ratios of these transgenic Columbia wild-type and ch1-1 plants were 2.24 and 2.29, respectively. These values were significantly lower than that of the full-length CAO-GFP–overexpressing plants (Table 1). These results indicate that the C domain alone is sufficient for chlorophyll b biosynthesis and that the presence of the A domain in the CAO protein has a contrasting function, inhibiting chlorophyll b biosynthesis. Transgenic tp-GFP-BC mRNA levels were similar to those of tp-ABC-GFP or tp-GFP-ABC transgenic plants (Figure 4). The significantly decreased chlorophyll a/b ratio observed in the transgenic tp-GFP-BC plants was not attributed to enhanced CAO mRNA accumulation. Total chlorophyll levels per fresh weight of rosette leaves in transgenic plants (tp-GFP-BC) were almost the same as in the Columbia wild type (Table 1). These results suggest that the overexpression of CAO mRNAs changed chlorophyll a/b ratios but did not alter total chlorophyll levels. In contrast with mRNA levels, a significant difference in CAO-GFP fusion protein levels was observed in the tp-GFP-BC and the full-length CAO-GFP (tp-ABC-GFP and tp-GFP-ABC) transgenic plants. In tp-GFP-BC transgenic plants, confocal microscopy detected GFP fluorescence in chloroplasts (Figures 2G and 2K) and anti-GFP and anti-CAO antibodies detected significant protein accumulation at the predicted molecular size (∼70 kD; Figures 3A and 3B). However, in tp-ABC-GFP or tp-GFP-ABC transgenic plants, transgenic protein accumulation was below a detectable level by confocal microscopy (Figures 2E, 2F, 2I, and 2J) and immunoblot analysis (Figures 3A and 3B). These results indicate that increased chlorophyll b accumulation in the tp-GFP-BC plants was a result of increased CAO protein accumulation and suggest that the A domain may suppress CAO protein accumulation. These results were confirmed in the transgenic plants that lacked GFP (Figure 3C). When the complete CAO (tp-ABC), CAO without the A domain (tp-BC), or CAO without the A and B domains (tp-C) genes were introduced into ch1-1 mutants, the chlorophyll b–less mutant phenotype was rescued. Immunoblot analysis could not detect CAO proteins with the Columbia wild type or even in the tp-ABC–overexpressing lines. Weak bands of ∼56 kD were observed, and it was concluded that these bands were not CAO. This conclusion was reached because identical bands were also observed in the ch1-1 mutant and in ch1-1 background transgenic plants. The ch1-1 mutant has a defective CAO gene and therefore cannot produce appropriately sized CAO protein. On the other hand, a large amount of CAO proteins accumulated when the A domain was removed (tp-BC and tp-C). These data suggest that the accumulation of CAO proteins was not affected by GFP but was regulated by the A domain. We also observed a slight increase in CAO accumulation when the B domain was removed (Figure 3C). Although these results are reproducible, further experimentation is warranted and necessary to clarify the physiological function of the B domain. The GFP signals in tp-GFP-BC plants were observed by confocal microscopy at peripheral and internal regions of chloroplasts (Figure 5D). We constructed transgenic plants that overexpress the envelope-specific protein, Tic55 (CITATION), with a C-terminal fusion to GFP (Tic55-GFP). The GFP signals of the Tic55-GFP proteins were targeted to chloroplasts (Figure 2D) and showed a ring-like distribution pattern around the chloroplasts (Figure 5B). The GFP signals of GFP-BC in chloroplasts were similar to those of Tic55-GFP (Figure 5D). Additionally, the GFP signals of GFP-BC proteins inside the chloroplasts almost overlapped with chlorophyll fluorescence. The signals inside the chloroplasts formed a gradation pattern, and stronger and weaker patches of fluorescence were evident (Figure 5D). [[FIGURE]] Chloroplasts were isolated from tp-GFP-BC and Tic55-GFP transgenic plants, and envelope and thylakoid membranes were fractionated by sucrose density gradient ultracentrifugation. Tic55-GFP was detected in envelope fractions and Lhcb proteins were found exclusively in fractions associated with thylakoid membranes (Figures 6A and 6B). These results indicate that chloroplast envelope and thylakoid membranes were effectively separated by sucrose gradient separation. By contrast, GFP-BC was found in both envelope and thylakoid fractions (Figure 6A). These results were consistent with those obtained with confocal microscopy and strongly suggest that the GFP-BC proteins are localized on envelope and thylakoid membranes. [[FIGURE]] Considering the inhibitory function of the A domain on CAO accumulation, it is possible to speculate that when chlorophyll b synthesis is in excess, the A domain decreases CAO protein levels. However, if the transgene constructs contain a catalytic C domain, chlorophyll b is inevitably synthesized in both Columbia wild-type and ch1-1 mutant backgrounds and the effects of chlorophyll b on protein accumulation cannot be examined. To overcome this problem, we compared the accumulation of the fusion protein of the A domain and GFP (tp-AB-GFP; Figure 1B) in the presence (Columbia wild-type background) or absence (ch1-1 background) of chlorophyll b. Chlorophyll b did not accumulate in the transgenic ch1-1 plants, and overexpression of the tp-AB-GFP gene did not change the chlorophyll a/b ratio in transgenic Columbia wild-type plants (Table 1). GFP signals of tp-AB-GFP were found in chloroplasts in the transgenic ch1-1 background (Figure 2L). In contrast with the ch1-1 background, no GFP signal was observed in the Columbia wild-type background (Figure 2H). These results were also supported by immunoblotting with anti-GFP antibodies. Significant amounts of the transgene products were observed in the ch1-1 background, whereas little transgene product was observed in the Columbia wild-type background (∼45 kD; Figure 3A). With the exception of the weak signals of AB-GFP, similar results were obtained with anti-CAO antibodies (Figure 3B). It is likely that this was attributable to the weak reactivity of the anti-CAO antibodies against the A domain (see Methods). These results indicate that the presence of the A domain prevents protein accumulation only when chlorophyll b is accumulated. Immunoblot analysis with tp-AB-GFP plants showed that the A domain downregulated the accumulation of AB-GFP in the presence of chlorophyll b. However, tp-AB-GFP mRNA levels were almost the same in both Columbia wild-type and ch1-1 backgrounds (Figure 4). To clarify whether chlorophyll b regulates the accumulation of AB-GFP at the translational level, we investigated the distribution of tp-AB-GFP mRNA in polysome gradients (Figure 7A). RNA gel blot analysis of tp-AB-GFP mRNA showed that almost all of the mRNA associated with ribosomes in both Columbia wild-type and ch1-1 backgrounds. There was no significant difference in the distribution profiles between the two plants, which indicates that chlorophyll b does not influence the translation activity of tp-AB-GFP mRNA (Figures 7A and 7B). Lhcb1 mRNA distributed to polysome and nonpolysome fractions (fraction 2 in Figures 7A and 7B), indicating that a part of Lhcb1 mRNA was not translated. However, tp-AB-GFP mRNA distributed only to polysomal fractions in both the Columbia wild type and ch1-1 (Figure 7B). This specific distribution may be caused by the Tobacco mosaic virus Ω sequence in tp-AB-GFP mRNA, which increases translational efficiency. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana plants were grown at 23°C under continuous light conditions (white fluorescent light at 60 to 90 μmol·m−2·s−1). Seeds of the Columbia wild-type strain and the ch1-1 mutant were germinated in soil and grown for 4 to 6 weeks in pots. Seeds of the transgenic Arabidopsis were germinated on plates containing half-strength MS medium (2.3 g/L; Wako Pure Chemical Industries, Osaka, Japan), 0.7% (w/v) agar, and 50 μg/mL kanamycin. Transgenic plants successfully grown for 1 week were transferred into soil and continuously grown for 4 to 6 weeks. After 4 to 6 weeks, rosette leaves of the plants were harvested and used for the experiments. A sGFP (S65T) overexpression system containing the CaMV 35S promoter, the Tobacco mosaic virus Ω sequence, and the nopaline synthase terminator (from Y. Niwa, University of Shizuoka, Shizuoka, Japan) (CITATION) was incorporated into the multicloning site of a pGreenII-0029 plasmid at EcoRI and HindIII (from R.P. Hellens and P. Mullineaux, John Innes Centre, Colney, UK) (CITATION). This plasmid was used to construct the transformation plasmid vectors containing the transgenes. The sGFP (S65T) gene in this plasmid was substituted by transgenes (full-length or truncated AtCAO cDNA sequences fused to sGFP [S65T] gene; Figures 1A and 1B) at the SalI and NotI sites. The DNA sequence integrity of the entire coding region was verified by sequencing. A series of transformation plasmids were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58 (GV2260) by electroporation. Arabidopsis plants (Columbia wild type and ch1-1 mutants) were transformed by infiltration with Agrobacterium cells containing the series of transformation plasmids. Primary Arabidopsis transformants were selected on plates containing half-strength MS medium (2.3 g/L), 0.7% (w/v) agar, and 50 μg/mL kanamycin. Total RNA was extracted from Arabidopsis rosette leaves using an RNeasy RNA extraction kit (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany). Total RNA (5 μg) was denatured with formamide/formaldehyde and fractionated on a 1.0% (w/v) agarose–18% (v/v) formaldehyde gel. The gel was subsequently blotted onto Hybond-XL membranes (Amersham Biosciences, Piscataway, NJ), and RNA was cross-linked to these membranes by UV radiation. The membranes were hybridized with a specific full-length radiolabeled CAO probe and washed for 20 min at 60°C with 2× SSC buffer (1× SSC buffer is 16.65 mM NaCl and 16.65 mM sodium citrate) containing 0.1% (w/v) SDS and then for 20 min at 60°C with 1× SSC buffer containing 0.1% (w/v) SDS. Signals were developed using a FUJI BAS-1500 system (Fuji Film, Tokyo, Japan). Polysomes were isolated as described previously by CITATION. Frozen rosette leaves (0.3 g) were ground in liquid nitrogen, and 1 mL of polysome extraction buffer (0.2 M Tris-HCl, pH 9.0, 0.2 M KCl, 35 mM MgCl2, 12.5 mM EGTA, 0.2 M sucrose, 1% [w/v] Triton X-100, 2% [w/v] polyoxyethylene-20-cetyl ether, 100 mM β-mercaptoethanol, 0.5 mg/mL heparin, 100 μg/mL chloramphenicol, and 25 μg/mL cycloheximide) was added. Leaf material was ground further until thawed and placed on ice for 10 min. Nuclei and insoluble materials were pelleted by centrifugation for 5 min at 15,000 rpm. Sodium deoxycholate was added to the supernatant to a final concentration of 0.5% (w/v), and the sample was placed on ice for 5 min. Remaining insoluble material was subsequently pelleted by centrifugation at 15,000 rpm for 15 min. The supernatant (0.4 mL) was layered onto 3.5-mL sucrose gradients that were prepared as described by CITATION and centrifuged with a RPS-56T swing rotor (Hitachi Koki, Tokyo, Japan) in a Himac CP70G ultracentrifuge at 45,000 rpm for 65 min at 4°C. Four hundred microliters of each fraction was collected by gentle pipetting from the top of the gradient and added to 50 μL of a solution consisting of 5% SDS and 0.2 M EDTA, pH 8.0. RNA was purified from each fraction by phenol:chloroform:isoamyl alcohol (25:24:1) extraction and subsequent ethanol precipitation. Finally, RNA samples were resuspended in 20 μL of TE buffer (10 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, and 1 mM EDTA), and 5 μL of each fraction was examined by RNA gel blot analysis. Ten milligrams of rosette leaves was homogenized with 100 μL of extraction buffer (50 mM Tris, pH 6.8, 2 mM EDTA, 10% [w/v] glycerol, 2% [w/v] SDS, and 6% [v/v] 2-mercaptoethanol), and the homogenate samples were centrifuged at 10,000g for 5 min. The supernatants (25 μL) was subjected to 10% (w/v) acrylamide SDS-PAGE separation, and the resolved proteins were blotted onto a Hybond-P membrane (Amersham Biosciences). Anti-GFP rabbit antibodies (diluted 1:5000; Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) or anti-CAO rabbit antibodies (diluted 1:1000) were used to detect CAO or GFP transferred proteins. Anti-rabbit IgG linked to horseradish peroxidase (Amersham Biosciences) was used as a secondary antibody specific for both primary antibodies. Cross-reactive protein bands were developed using an ECL plus protein gel blot analysis kit (Amersham Biosciences). The anti-CAO antibodies were raised against a polypeptide corresponding to the Tyr-120 to Val-516 sequence of CAO protein in our laboratory. Envelope and thylakoid membranes were isolated from chloroplasts of Arabidopsis plants as described by CITATION. The leaves were homogenized in a blender in 250 mL of ice-cold buffer containing 0.45 M sorbitol, 20 mM Tricine/NaOH, pH 8.4, 10 mM EDTA, 10 mM NaHCO3, and 0.1% BSA. A chloroplast pellet was obtained by centrifugation at 1500g for 3 min. The chloroplasts were disrupted in 10 mM 3-(N-morpholino)-propanesulfonic acid, pH 7.6, 4 mM MgCl2, and 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride. Chloroplast subfractions were separated on a step gradient of 2.0, 0.93, and 0.6 M sucrose in buffer R [10 mM 3-(N-morpholino)-propanesulfonic acid, pH 7.6, and 4 mM MgCl2] by ultracentrifugation at 70,000g for 1 h. The chloroplast envelope fraction was collected at the interface between the 0.6 and 0.93 M sucrose layers, and thylakoids were collected at the interface between the 0.93 and 2.0 M sucrose layers. Fluorescence images were recorded on a MRC 1024 confocal system (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Hercules, CA) and an Axioplan fluorescence microscope equipped with an Achroplan ×40 objective lens and an α Plan-Fluar ×100 oil-immersion objective lens (Carl Zeiss, Jena, Germany). An argon laser (25 mW) was used to generate an excitation source at 488 nm, and GFP and chlorophyll fluorescence were recorded at 522 and 680 nm, respectively. The images were processed with Adobe Photoshop 4.0 software (Adobe, San Jose, CA). Rosette leaves were homogenized in liquid nitrogen, and pigments were extracted with 100% acetone. The extracts were then centrifuged at 15,000g for 5 min, and the supernatant was subjected to HPLC. Pigments were separated on an octadecyl column (Shim-pack CLC-ODS column, 6.0 × 150 mm; Shimadzu, Kyoto, Japan) using methanol or methanol:acetone (70:30) as the elution agent at a flow rate of 1.7 mL/min. Elution profiles were monitored by measuring at 650 nm. Chlorophyll content was quantified from the chromatographic peak areas after calibration of the chromatographic response with known quantities of the relevant pigments (Juntec, Atsugi, Japan).
