!~ABS~! The nuclear genome of the moss Physcomitrella patens contains two genes encoding phage-type RNA polymerases (PpRPOT1 and PpRPOT2). Each of the PpRPOT1 and PpRPOT2 transcripts possesses two in-frame AUG codons at the 5′ terminus that could act as a translational initiation site. Observation of transient and stable Physcomitrella transformants expressing the 5′ terminus of each PpRPOT cDNA fused with the green fluorescent protein gene suggested that both PpRPOT1 and PpRPOT2 are not translated from the first (upstream) AUG codon in the natural context but translated from the second (downstream) one, and that these enzymes are targeted only to mitochondria, although they are potentially targeted to plastids when translation is forced to start from the first AUG codon. The influence of the 5′-upstream sequence on the translation efficiency of the two AUG codons in PpRPOT1 and PpRPOT2 was quantitatively assessed using a β-glucuronidase reporter. The results further supported that the second AUG codon is the sole translation initiation site in Physcomitrella cells. An Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) RPOT homolog AtRpoT;2 that possesses two initiation AUG codons in its transcripts, as do the RPOTs of P. patens, has been regarded as a dually targeted protein. When the localization of AtRpoT;2 was tested using green fluorescent protein in a similar way, AtRpoT;2 was also observed only in mitochondria in many Arabidopsis tissues. These results suggest that, despite the presence of two in-frame AUGs at the 5′ termini of RPOTs in Physcomitrella and Arabidopsis, the second AUG is specifically recognized as the initiation site in these organisms, resulting in expression of a protein that is targeted to mitochondria. This finding may change the current framework of thinking about the transcription machinery of plastids in land plants.
!~RES~! The cDNA sequence for the two RPOTs in P. patens that we published previously (CITATION) showed a long 5′ sequence that preceded the conserved RPOT-coding sequence (Fig. 1A). Some cDNA sequences were also available in the expressed sequence tag database (CITATION), but all of them were mapped within the cDNA sequences shown in Figure 1. Genomic sequences were published by CITATION, and the comparison of cDNA and genomic sequences indicated that the long 5′ sequence of PpRPOT1 was shared by the two except two terminal residues (this could be due to cloning artifact or vector sequence), but that a short sequence fragment at the 5′ end of the genomic sequence of PpRPOT2 might be an intron sequence, which ends by the consensus AG. In other words, the transcription starts from an exon further upstream whose genomic sequence is still not available. Both of the cDNAs are likely full-length ones, but the 5′ end was not mapped due to unavailability of upstream genomic sequences and the low level of transcripts in the total mRNA pool. In both RPOT sequences, the long 5′ sequence contains two in-frame ATG triplets. No further in-frame ATG is present upstream of the conserved polymerase sequence. Available sequence data indicate the transcript contains both AUG codons. No splicing variant containing only one of the AUGs is known. Therefore, the mRNA contains a long 5′-UTR (291 nucleotides) upstream of the first ATG in PpRPOT1. The length of the 5′-UTR of PpRPOT2 mRNA is 132 nucleotides. In addition, the interval between the first ATG and the second ATG was 141 and 105 nucleotides, respectively, for PpRPOT1 and PpRPOT2. In the AtRpoT;2 sequence, the 5′-UTR is 231 nucleotides long, and the interval between the two ATG codons is 117 nucleotides. We first tested if the two PpRPOTs are present in the plastids by immunoblot analysis and by measuring the sensitivity to tagetitoxin of the transcription in isolated mitochondria and plastids of P. patens protonemata (Fig. 2, B and C, respectively). Tagetitoxin is known to inhibit transcription by plastid-encoded RNA polymerase (PEP) and bacterial RNA polymerase (CITATION), but not the activity of RPOT. In P. patens, the core of PEP consists of plastid-encoded subunits (β, β′, and β″) and a nuclear-encoded α-subunit (CITATION), but is expected to be sensitive to tagetitoxin because its structure is analogous to that of bacterial RNA polymerases. Protonemata were used in these experiments because we already showed that the two PpRPOT genes are transcribed in the protonemata (CITATION). First, polyclonal antisera were raised against the glutathione S-transferase (GST)-PpRPOT1 and GST-PpRPOT2 recombinant proteins. (Primers for fusion constructs are summarized in Table I.) In these proteins, the N-terminal half of the protein sequence was used to avoid cross-reaction due to the conserved C-terminal active center domain. The cross-reaction of these antibodies with the full-length polymerase enzymes (expressed as His-tagged proteins that were used in the experiment in Fig. 2C) was indeed undetectable and estimated to be less than 1% (Fig. 2A). The two organelles were purified over Percoll gradients and then tested by immunoblot analysis with anti-PpRPOT1 or anti-PpRPOT2 (Fig. 2B). An immunoreactive protein with a molecular mass identical to that expected for PpRPOT1 (approximately 110 kD) or PpRPOT2 (approximately 108 kD) was detected in the mitochondrial fraction but not in the chloroplast fraction (Fig. 1B). Control antibodies directed against known plastid (SiR or sulfite reductase; CITATION) and mitochondrial (PpGRP3, an RNA-binding protein; CITATION) proteins were also tested to confirm the purity of the two fractions. No significant cross-contamination was found (Fig. 2B). These results suggest that both PpPROT1 and PpRPOT2 proteins are localized in the mitochondria but not in the chloroplasts in the protonema. [[FIGURE]] Oligonucleotides used in this study Underlines indicate restriction sites. The two PpRPOTs were demonstrated to be functional RNA polymerases in a previous study (CITATION). The transcription activity of the two recombinant PpRPOT enzymes was not inhibited by tagetitoxin (Fig. 2C). In mitochondria, the transcription was not inhibited by tagetitoxin or even stimulated to some extent (Fig. 2C). This result was just as expected because the two PpRPOTs are present in the mitochondria as described above, and no other type of RNA polymerase is known to function in mitochondria of higher eukaryotes. In the plastids, the transcription was almost completely (to less than 1%) inhibited by the addition of tagetitoxin. In the in vitro transcription system using the proplastid nucleoids of tobacco BY-2 cells, which contain an appreciable level of NEP, the residual transcription activity in the presence of tagetitoxin (about 50% of total activity) was ascribed to the activity of NEP (CITATION). In the plastids of P. patens, however, there was no measurable level of tagetitoxin-insensitive transcription activity. This is consistent with the results of immunoblot analysis that indicated the absence of RPOT enzymes in the chloroplasts. If the RPOTs are massively targeted to chloroplasts as reported by CITATION, all these results are hard to explain. Rather, this is evidence that RPOT enzymes or NEP is absent in the plastids of P. patens protonemata. Next, we reexamined targeting of GFP-fusion proteins. The discrepancy in the targeting experiments, as described in the introduction, might be due to the constructs used in the two reports. In the experiments of CITATION, translation was forced to start from the AUG codon just downstream the translation leader sequence, which was taken from tobacco etch virus (using the vector pOL S65C; CITATION). The native 5′-upstream sequence was not used in their targeting experiments. By contrast, we used GFP-fused constructs containing the native 5′-upstream sequences to investigate the situation in the natural translation context. Thus, the sequence context of the translational initiation site is a likely candidate for the discrepancy. Since the nucleotide sequence context of the AUG plays a role in the efficiency of translation initiation, the 5′-upstream sequences of the first and second AUGs were compared (Fig. 1B). Although the consensus sequence of the plant context is AAAAACAA(A/C)AAUG (CITATION), the sequence context of both the first and second AUG were scarcely analogous to the consensus sequence, and it was difficult to estimate functional initiation codon just by such sequence comparison. We therefore tried to obtain as much information as possible from the sequence database of P. patens. First, all available protein-encoding sequences (266 in total) were retrieved from the GenBank database. Then, the 20 nucleotides upstream of the initiation site were extracted from each entry. The information content of each site or SequenceLogo was calculated for these 214 UTR sequences and is presented in Figure 1B. Based on this statistic, we deduced moss consensus, as shown in the figure. The information content values were used as a weight matrix to calculate a score for each possible initiation site, which we hoped would represent the probability of the initiation site. The result (Fig. 1B, right column) indicated that the score was higher for the second AUG than for the first AUG in both PpRPOT1 and PpRPOT2. This is the first positive computational data suggesting that the second AUG may be used preferentially. To reexamine the targeting of PpPROT1 and PpRPOT2 by GFP, we prepared several new GFP-fusion constructs using both the natural 5′-upstream sequence and the translation leader sequence (TL) taken from the RBCS 3A gene of pea (Pisum sativum; Fig. 3, A and B). In addition, in TP1rM48I-GFP and TP2rM36I-GFP, the second AUG codon was mutated, while the translation was forced to start from the first one. These constructs were introduced into moss protoplasts by polyethylene glycol-mediated transformation. [[FIGURE]] In the experiments with TP1-GFP, the construct having the entire 5′-UTR plus both Met codons (wild-type construct having the original upstream sequence), and constructs having only the second Met codon, TP1M2-GFP and TP1rM2-GFP, the fluorescence of GFP was localized to mitochondria (Fig. 4A, a, b, and d), whereas the fluorescence of GFP was localized to plastids with the construct having a mutated second Met codon, TP1rM48I-GFP (Fig. 4A, e). In analogous constructs with the PpRPOT2, namely, the construct having the entire 5′-UTR, TP2-GFP, and the constructs having the second Met codon, TP2M2-GFP and TP2rM2-GFP, the GFP fluorescence was localized to mitochondria (Fig. 4A, f, g, and i), while the fluorescence of GFP was localized to plastids with TP2rM36I-GFP (Fig. 4A, j). The fluorescence of GFP with the constructs having a translation leader that replaced the 5′-UTR, TP1rM1-GFP and TP2rM1-GFP, was localized to both mitochondria and plastids (Fig. 4A, c and h). These results indicate that forced translation from the first AUG codon using the TL of pea RBCS 3A resulted in the localization to plastids, just as in the reported results with pOL S65C vector (CITATION). However, TP1-GFP and TP2-GFP with the natural 5′-upstream sequence were localized only to mitochondria. These results are explained if the first AUG codon is not used as the translation initiation site in vivo, although the amino acid sequence beginning from it has a property of plastid targeting sequence. [[FIGURE]] No secondary structure such as stem-loop is predicted in the 5′-upstream sequence of the two PpRPOTs with the software RNAstructure version 3.71 (CITATION). However, some uORFs were detected in the 5′-UTR. We examined the influence of the 5′-upstream sequence on the translation efficiency with GFP-fusion constructs (Fig. 4B, TP1M1−10-GFP; containing the 10 bp sequence upstream of the first AUG codon but no uORF, TP1M1+1-GFP; the 35S promoter directly joined to the first AUG). The results suggest that the GFP fluorescence of TP1M1−10-GFP was localized to mitochondria (Fig. 4B, a). The fluorescence of TP1M1+1-GFP was localized to both mitochondria and plastids (Fig. 4B, b). In the experiment with TP1M1−10-GFP, GFP fluorescence was observed in mitochondria as in the case of TP1-GFP containing the full-length 5′-upstream sequence of the first AUG codon. These results suggest that the uORF has no effect on the translation efficiency of the first AUG codon, and that only the 10-nucleotide sequence upstream of the first AUG is necessary to suppress translation from this site. However, this may not be suppression because not all AUGs within the mRNA act as initiation codons. What can be concluded from this experiment is that the proximal 10-nucleotide sequence but not the long 5′-UTR sequence upstream is important to determine whether translation is started from this site of RPOT mRNA. To quantitate the effects of the 5′-upstream sequence on the translation from the first and the second AUGs of PpRPOT1 and PpRPOT2, five additional plasmids with β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter (Fig. 3C) were constructed and tested in transient expression. These constructs contain either the 5′-upstream sequence of the first (PpRPOT1u1-GUS and PpRPOT2u1-GUS) or the second AUG codon (PpRPOT1u2-GUS and PpRPOT2u2-GUS), or the TL from the pea RBCS 3A gene (TL-GUS), which were fused to the uidA gene and driven by the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. They were introduced into moss protoplasts by polyethylene glycol-mediated transformation. One day after transformation, GUS activity was measured. Two constructs, PpRPOT1u2-GUS and TL-GUS, gave high levels of GUS activity, whereas the GUS activity with PpRPOT1u1-GUS was at a level of pUC18 control (Table II). In contrast with PpRPOT1 constructs, PpRPOT2u2-GUS gave lower GUS activity, but this activity was significantly higher than the activity with PpRPOT2u1-GUS and pUC18 control. Therefore, it seems that translation is initiated only at the second AUG codon in both PpRPOT1 and PpRPOT2. In other words, the first AUG codon is unlikely to be recognized as a translation initiation site. Effects of the 5′-upstream sequences on translation efficiency GUS activity in P. patens protoplasts that were transformed with respective plasmid is normalized with the coexpressed GFP. The GUS values are expressed in arbitrary unit, with setting the average values of expression driven by the TL-GUS as 100. Each value (±se) represents the average of three independent assays. N/A, Not applicable. In our transient expression experiments, both PpRPOT1 and PpRPOT2 were translated from the second AUG codon and were only localized to mitochondria in the protoplasts. However, the first AUG codon could be used as an initiation site in some particular types of cells or tissues. To address this question, we examined in detail the localization of PpRPOT1 and PpRPOT2 in various cell types and tissues in stably transformed moss (stable is used here to mean not transient or stably integrated in the chromosome). The pPpMADS-TP1GFP and pPpMADS-TP2GFP plasmids containing the natural 5′-upstream sequence of the first AUG codon and N-terminal sequence were used for the transformation. In all cell types and tissues of stably transformed P. patens, including protonemata and gametophores, GFP fluorescence was only observed in mitochondria but never in chloroplasts (Fig. 5). When immunoblot analysis was performed with plastids and mitochondria isolated from stably transformed P. patens protonemata, the GFP-fusion protein was detected in the mitochondrial fraction but not in the plastid fraction (data not shown). Thus, subcellular localization of the GFP-fusion protein in stably transformed protonemata and other tissues was the same as that in transiently transformed protoplasts, confirming that no detectable level of translation occurs from the first AUG codon of PpRPOT1 and PpRPOT2. It was concluded that the N-terminal extension in each of the two PpRPOTs (Fig. 6A) beginning from the first AUG codon is not translated in vivo. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Phylogenetic analysis of the RPOT proteins (Fig. 6A, left) suggested three major clusters, with a relationship (moss, ((Cluster I, Cluster II), Cluster III)). This result is essentially consistent with the structure of N-terminal sequences: Cluster I is characterized by the conserved sequence block (MWR) and mitochondrial localization. The conserved sequence block is not found in Cluster III, which contained plastid proteins. N-terminal extension as well as the conserved sequence block are found in the sequences in Cluster II (Fig. 6A). However, ZmRpoT1 belongs to Cluster II but lacks N-terminal extension. AtRpoT;2 and NsRpoT-B have been shown to be dually targeted to both plastids and mitochondria in experiments with GFP-fusion proteins (CITATION; CITATION). Immunological evidence suggested that Wheat-G is a mitochondrial RNA polymerase (CITATION), but the plastid localization was not tested with GFP. The localization of Wheat-C was not reported (Fig. 6B). We chose AtRpoT;2 to test its targeting since the 5′-upstream sequence was not included in the GFP-fusion constructs in the previous report. The sequence context of two AUGs was compared to the consensus sequence of plants AAAAACAA(A/C)AAUG. However, both of the upstream sequences were not analogous to the consensus sequence (Fig. 1B). However, a computer prediction of translation initiation site with the NetStart program (CITATION), which is said to be specialized for Arabidopsis, suggested that AtRpoT;2 is not translated from the first AUG codon but is translated from the second one (Fig. 6B). Analogous prediction data are presented for other plants, but they might not be correctly predicted because of limitation of neural network prediction using the Arabidopsis training data set. Two plasmids were constructed (Fig. 3D). pBI-AtRpoT;2GFP contained the 5′-upstream sequence of the first AUG codon and coding sequence (126 amino acids), and pBI-AtRpoT;2+1GFP contained the coding region and no native 5′-upstream sequence. These constructs were used to transform Arabidopsis (Fig. 7), and then subcellular localization of the GFP-fusion proteins was observed in cotyledon, leaf, and root. In the experiment with pBI-AtRpoT;2GFP, the fluorescence of GFP was localized to mitochondria (Fig. 7A, a, d, and g). By contrast, the fluorescence of AtRpoT;2+1GFP was observed in both mitochondria and plastids (Fig. 7B, j, m, and p). Additionally, we investigated into the localization of AtRpoT;2 during the early stage of seedling development and during the deetiolation process because CITATION reported that the mutation of AtRpoT;2 affected the light-induced accumulation of several plastid gene transcripts during early seedling development. However, the fluorescence of AtRpoT;2GFP was not detected in plastids under any conditions tested (data not shown). These results are essentially equivalent to those of the in vivo targeting experiments of PpRPOTs described above, and suggest that AtRpoT;2 may also contain a formal (or, more precisely, unused) plastid targeting sequence in its N terminus, as in the case of the two PpRPOTs. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Gransden strain of Physcomitrella patens (Hedw.) Bruch & Schimp subsp. patens Tan was grown in the minimal medium supplemented with 5 mm diammonium (+)-tartrate as described previously (CITATION). Agar (0.8%) plates were used for maintaining the stock culture at 25°C. Light was provided by a bank of fluorescent lamps at a fluence rate of about 50 μmol m−2 s−1. Seeds of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana L.) Heynh, ecotype Columbia, were germinated in rock fiber (Nitto Bouseki, Chiba, Japan) and grown at 22°C under continuous illumination at a fluence rate of about 35 μmol m−2 s−1. Seven-day-old protonemal cells were digested in Solution 1 (2.0% Driserase [Kyowa Hakko, Tokyo] and 8% mannitol) at 25°C for 30 min. Protoplasts were recovered by filtration through a 70-μm nylon mesh and centrifugation at 200g for 2 min at 4°C, followed by three washes with 8% mannitol. Isolation of chloroplasts was performed essentially according to the established method (CITATION, CITATION). The pellet was gently suspended in Grinding buffer (0.33 m sorbitol, 30 mm HEPES-KOH, pH 7.5, 2 mm EDTA, 0.1% bovine serum albumin). The protoplasts were broken by a passage through two layers of 20-μm nylon mesh. The suspension of broken protoplasts was centrifuged at 10,000g for 10 min at 4°C. The pellet was resuspended in Grinding buffer. Percoll was added to the suspension to a final concentration of 20%. The supernatant was used to prepare mitochondria (see below). Plastids were separated from nuclei and mitochondria by Percoll density gradient centrifugation (20%/40%/80%, v/v) at 10,000g for 30 min at 4°C. A green band that formed at the 40%/80% interface was collected, washed three times with Grinding buffer at 10,000g for 10 min at 4°C, and then diluted three times with TAN buffer (20 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 0.5 mm EDTA, 7 mm 2-mercaptoethanol, 0.4 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, 1.2 mm spermidine, 500 mm Suc). The plastids were suspended in a small volume of TAN buffer containing 33% glycerol, flash frozen in liquid nitrogen, and stored at −80°C. Purity of the organelles was checked by examination under fluorescence microscope after staining with 4′,6-diamino-phenylindole as described previously (CITATION). Mitochondria were isolated from the broken protoplasts (see above). The supernatant after the centrifugation at 10,000g for 10 min was then centrifuged at 18,000g for 10 min at 4°C. The pellet was suspended in Grinding buffer. Percoll was added to the suspension to a final concentration of 20%. Mitochondria were purified by Percoll density gradient centrifugation (20%/33%/80%, v/v) at 18,000g for 60 min at 4°C. A yellowish turbid band that formed at the 33%/80% interface was collected, washed three times with the Grinding buffer at 18,000g for 10 min at 4°C, and then diluted three times with TAN buffer. The mitochondria were suspended in a small volume of TAN buffer containing 33% glycerol, flash frozen in liquid nitrogen, and stored at −80°C. Purity of the organelles was checked by examination under fluorescence microscope as described above. Transcription activity of plastids and mitochondria was measured as incorporation of [3H]UTP. In organellar assay, a 60-mL reaction contained transcription buffer [40 mm Tris-HCl, pH 8.3, 25 mm MgCl2, 9 mm MgSO4, 30 mm (NH4)2SO4], 5 mm dithiothreitol, 0.01% Nonidet P-40, 180 μm ATP, 180 μm GTP, 180 μm CTP, 5 μm [3H]UTP (at a specific radioactivity 0.16 Gbq μmol−1 for plastids and 0.51 Gbq μmol−1 for mitochondria), 5.7 unit μL−1 RNAguard (Amersham Bioscience, Piscataway, NJ), and 60 μg of protein plastids or 24 μg of protein mitochondria. Transcription activity of recombinant PpRPOTs was measured as incorporation of [3H]UTP. For in vitro assay of purified enzymes, a 60-mL reaction contained transcription buffer (see above), 5 mm dithiothreitol, 0.01% Nonidet P-40, 180 μm ATP, 180 μm GTP, 180 μm CTP, 5 μm [3H]UTP (at a specific radioactivity 0.16 Gbq μmol−1), 5.7 unit μL−1 RNAguard, 3 μg of calf thymus DNA as the template, and 1.5 μg of recombinant PpRPOT1 or PpRPOT2. The reaction mixtures were incubated for 30 min at 25°C. Tagetitoxin (Epicentre, Madison, WI) was added to a final concentration of 10 μm in the inhibition experiments. After the reaction, 5-μL aliquots were spotted onto DEAE paper (DE-81; Whatman, Clifton, NJ). After successive washing with 5% Na2HPO4, water, and ethanol, radioactivity was determined by liquid scintillation counting. The DNA fragments corresponding to the amino acids 121 to 500 of PpRPOT1 and 114 to 489 of PpRPOT2 were amplified from pZL-1 and pZL-2 using the primers 1 and 2, or 3 and 4 (Table I). These PCR products were digested with SalI and BamHI or BglII, and inserted into BamHI and SalI sites of the expression vector pGEX-4T-2 (Amersham Bioscience), respectively. The resulting plasmids were named pGEX-1p and pGEX-2p, and transformed into Escherichia coli XL-1 Blue cells. The overexpression and purification with glutathione-Sepharose 4B (Amersham Bioscience) of the GST-PpRPOT1 and GST-PpRPOT2 fusion proteins were performed according to the manufacturer's directions. The fusion protein eluted from the column was further purified by gel filtration with the Superdex 75 column (Amersham Bioscience) that had been equilibrated with PBS buffer. Purified proteins were used to immunize guinea pigs. Polyclonal antisera were obtained, and the IgG fraction (after ammonium sulfate fractionation) was used in the immunoblot analysis. For immunoblot analysis, intact plastids and mitochondria were isolated from P. patens as described above. SDS-PAGE and immunoblotting were performed using a 7.5% or 20% polyacrylamide gel as described in a previous paper (CITATION). Either of the plasmids pZL-1 or pZL-2 that contained cloned cDNA encoding PpRPOT1 and PpRPOT2 (CITATION), respectively, were used as templates for PCR amplification. TP1-GFP and TP2-GFP containing the 5′-upstream sequence of the first AUG codon were amplified, respectively, using primers 5 and 32, or 13 and 32. TP1M2-GFP and TP2M2-GFP containing the 5′-upstream sequence of the second AUG codon (but downstream the first AUG codon) were amplified using primers 5 and 6, or 13 and 14. TP1rM1-GFP and TP2rM1-GFP, having TL from the pea (Pisum sativum) RBCS 3A gene in place of the 5′-upstream sequence of the first AUG codon, were generated using primers 5 and 7, or 13 and 15. TP1rM2-GFP and TP2rM2-GFP, having TL in place of the 5′-upstream sequence of the second AUG codon, were generated using primers 5 and 8, or 13 and 16. TP1rM48I-GFP, containing TL and Met-48-to-Ile mutation, was prepared by combining by PCR (with primers 5 and 7), the two partial fragments obtained by amplification using either primers 7 and 10, or primers 5 and 9. TP2rM36I-GFP, containing TL and Met-36-to-Ile mutation, was generated likewise by two successive PCR reactions, using primers 13, 15, 17, and 18. TP1+1-GFP, containing no 5′-upstream sequence of the first AUG codon, was amplified using primers 5 and 11. TP1−10-GFP, containing 10-nucleotide sequence in the 5′-upstream region of the first AUG codon, was amplified using primers 5 and 12. These PCR products were digested with NcoI and SalI and inserted into the SalI-NcoI sites of sGFPS65T (CITATION), which contains a synthetic GFP gene with S65T mutation and optimized codon usage for plants under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. The plasmids pPpMADS-TP1GFP and pPpMADS-TP2GFP were constructed by inserting the 5′-upstream sequence of the first AUG codon plus the full-length transit peptide of PpRPOT1 or PpRPOT2 and a DNA fragment containing the GFP coding sequence into an expression vector pPpMADS2-7133 with E7133 promoter (CITATION). The DNA fragments related to AtRpoT;2 were amplified from Arabidopsis (cv Columbia) genomic DNA (laboratory stock). To construct AtRpoT;2-GFP, the 5′-upstream sequence of the first AUG codon plus the full-length transit peptide sequence was amplified using primers 19 and 21. To construct AtRpoT;2+1-GFP, the sequence coding for the full-length transit peptide was amplified using primers 20 and 21. These PCR products were digested with NcoI and SalI and inserted into the SalI-NcoI sites of sGFPS65T. These constructs were used in transient expression experiments (data not shown). The DNA fragments beginning from the CaMV 35S promoter and ending at the NOS terminator were obtained from the plasmids AtRpoT;2-GFP or AtRpoT;2+1-GFP, and were inserted into the HindIII-EcoRI sites of pBI101. These plasmids were named pBI-AtRpoT;2GFP and pBI-AtRpoT;2+1GFP, respectively. Thirty micrograms of the GFP-fusion plasmids were introduced into the protoplasts of P. patens by polyethylene glycol-mediated transformation (CITATION; CITATION). To generate the DNA fragment PpRPOT1u1-GUS and PpRPOT2u1-GUS containing the 5′-upstream sequence of the first AUG codon, the fragment containing the 5′-upstream sequence of the first AUG codon was amplified with primers 23 and 32 using the pZL-1 plasmid as a template, or with primers 27 and 32 using the pZL-2 plasmid as a template. The fragment containing uidA gene was amplified with primers 22 and 31, or 26 and 31, using the pBI101 plasmid as a template. Then the two fragments in each combination were combined by a second PCR with primers 31 and 32. To generate the DNA fragment PpRPOT1u2-GUS and PpRPOT2u2-GUS containing the 5′-upstream sequence of the second AUG codon (but downstream the first AUG codon), the fragment containing the 5′-upstream sequence of the second AUG codon was amplified with primers 6 and 25 using the pZL-1 as a template or with primers 14 and 29 using the pZL-2 as a template, while the fragment containing the uidA gene was amplified with primers 24 and 31, or 28 and 31, using the pBI101 plasmid as a template. Then, the two fragments in each combination were connected by amplification with primers 6 and 31 or primers 14 and 31. The DNA fragment TL-GUS containing the TL from the pea RBCS 3A gene and the GUS coding sequence was amplified with the primers 30 and 31 using the pBI101 plasmid as a template. These PCR products were digested with SalI and NotI and inserted in place of the GFP coding sequence of sGFPS65T, keeping the CaMV 35S promoter and the NOS terminator unchanged. One of these plasmids (15 μg) and sGFPS65T as an internal standard were introduced into the moss protoplasts as described above. One day after transformation, GUS activity of the protoplasts was determined according to CITATION, while the amount of GFP protein was determined by immunoblot with anti-GFP antibody (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). A two-sample t test comparing GUS activity of pUC18 and various GUS constructs was used to calculate P value. A P value of less than 0.05 was considered significant. P. patens was transformed according to CITATION. To obtain stable transformants, pPpMADS-TP1GFP digested with NotI was introduced into the protoplasts. Transformed protoplasts were incubated for 4 d on BCDAT medium and then transferred to BCDAT medium containing 50 mg L−1 G418 (Sigma, St. Louis) for 3 weeks. The selected plants were transferred onto a medium without G418 and allowed to grow for 7 d. Then, they were transferred again onto the selection medium. After the second selection, stably transformed P. patens was confirmed by PCR analysis. Arabidopsis was transformed according to CITATION using Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA105 containing pBI-AtRpoT;2GFP or pBI-AtRpoT;2+1GFP. Transformed Arabidopsis were selected on the Murashige and Skoog medium (CITATION) containing 1.5% Suc, 50 mg L−1 kanamycin, and 100 mg L−1 carbenicillin. Database sequences and alignment files were manipulated using the SISEQ package version 1.30 (CITATION). A total of 266 database entries for moss sequences were retrieved directly from the gbpln*.seq files in the GenBank (version 141) release using the getent command. The UTR sequence (20 bases) was extracted for each entry by the cdsnuc command. We finally used 214 UTR sequences for further calculation. SequenceLogo (CITATION) was prepared using the alpro and makelogo programs, which were downloaded from Tom Schneider's web site (http://www.lecb.ncifcrf.gov/∼toms/) and compiled locally for Power PC G5 running under MacOS X 10.3. The information content values in the resulting logo file in ASCII postscript format were used as a scoring matrix (the values were in fact multiplied by 2.5 for drawing as SequenceLogo with a height of 5.0 cm). The score was calculated by adding the value for the corresponding nucleotide at each position from −10 to −1 with respect to A of initiation codon. For phylogenetic analysis, alignments of amino acid sequences were constructed by ClustalX program version 1.81 (CITATION) with final manual adjustment. The N-terminal part was excluded from the alignment by the getclu command of SISEQ because it was highly variable. The programs used for constructing phylogenetic trees by the neighbor-joining method were PROTDIST, NEIGHBOR, SEQBOOT, and CONSENSE of the PHYLIP package (CITATION). Graphical representation of phylogenetic tree was made by the njplot program (CITATION).
