!~ABS~! AtAGP17, AtAGP18 and AtAGP19 are homologous genes encoding three putative glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored classical arabinogalactan-proteins (AGPs) in Arabidopsis. They are distinguished from other AGPs by a short, C-terminal lysine-rich region. Organ-specific expression of these genes was revealed by Northern blot analysis. AtAGP17 was strongly expressed in leaves and stems, and weakly expressed in flowers and roots; AtAGP18 was strongly expressed in flowers, and moderately expressed in roots, stems and young leaves; and AtAGP19 was strongly expressed in stems, moderately expressed in flowers and roots, and weakly expressed in young leaves. One of these genes, AtAGP17, was expressed and purified as a green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein in transgenic tobacco cells using hydrophobic interaction chromatography, size exclusion chromatography and reverse phase high-performance liquid chromatography. The fusion (glyco)protein produced a characteristic AGP ‘smear’ with a molecular mass of 80–150 kDa when detected by Western blot analysis. Glycosyl composition and linkage analyses of purified GFP–AtAGP17 showed that carbohydrate accounted for ∼86% of the molecule, with arabinose and galactose as major, and rhamnose and glucuronic acid as minor glycosyl residues and with 1,3,6-galactose, 1,4-glucuronic acid, 1,3-galactose and terminal arabinose as major linkages. GFP–AtAGP17 was also precipitated by β-Yariv reagent, further confirming that AtAGP17 is a bona fide AGP. Confocal fluorescence microscopy of plasmolysed, transformed cells indicated that AtAGP17 is localized on the plasma membrane and in Hechtian strands. Hydroxyproline (Hyp) glycoside profiles of GFP–AtAGP17 in conjunction with the deduced protein sequence also served to corroborate the Hyp contiguity hypothesis, which predicts contiguous Hyp residues as attachment sites for arabinosides and clustered, non-contiguous Hyp residues as attachment sites for arabinogalactan polysaccharides.
!~RES~! AtAGP17, AtAGP18 and AtAGP19 are distinguished from other Arabidopsis classical AGPs by a C-terminal lysine-rich region. These proteins share amino acid sequence similarity to the biochemically well-characterized homolog in tomato, LeAGP-1, as well as to other homologs including tobacco NaAGP4, cucumber CsAGP-1 and pine PtaAGP6 (Gao et al. 1999, Gilson et al. 2001, Zhao et al. 2002, Park et al. 2003, Zhang et al. 2003, Sun et al. 2004b) (data not shown). Clustal analysis and the resulting phylogenetic tree of these various lysine-rich AGPs along with other known classical AGPs and AG peptide sequences from Arabidopsis show that the lysine-rich AGPs constitute a distinct phylogenetic branch (Fig. 1). Interestingly, while AtAGP17 and AtAGP18 are closely related to one another and to their apparent orthologs in other plant species, AtAGP19 is more distantly related, with no clear orthologous sequences with the possible exception of PtaAGP6. In order to study which organs express AtAGP17, AtAGP18 and AtAGP19, total RNA was extracted from different organs of 1-month-old Arabidopsis plants, including young and old leaves, roots, elongated inflorescence stems and flowers, and subjected to Northern blot analysis. Expression of these genes varied in different organs (Fig. 2A). AtAGP17 was strongly expressed in leaves and stems, weakly expressed in flowers, and barely expressed in roots. AtAGP18 was very highly expressed in flowers, strongly expressed in roots and stems and weakly expressed in leaves. Expression of AtAGP19 was strong in stems, moderate in roots and flowers, and very weak in leaves. In addition, AtAGP17 expression in Arabidopsis suspension-cultured cells was examined and found to increase after 1 week of subculturing, but then decreased thereafter (Fig. 2B). The GFP–AtAGP17 genetic construction was delivered into tobacco culture cells through Agrobacterium-mediated transformation (Fig. 3). Transformed cells were screened on solid MS or Schenk and Hildebrandt (SH) medium with kanamycin and timentin. After fluorescence microscopic examination, cell lines with the brightest green fluorescence were selected for propagation in liquid culture. Subsequently, cell lines secreting the highest amount of fusion protein into the culture medium were selected and used for further cytochemical and biochemical analysis. The subcellular localization of GFP–AtAGP17 in transgenic cells was determined by laser scanning confocal microscopy. Green fluorescence predominantly appeared on the cell surfaces of GFP–AtAGP17-transformed cells (Fig. 4A), while untransformed cells showed essentially no background fluorescence, as previously observed (Shpak et al. 1999, Zhao et al. 2002). Moreover, following plasmolysis of these transgenic cells with NaCl, green fluorescence was localized to the retracted plasma membrane and Hechtian strands, which serve as attachment sites between the plasma membrane and cell wall (Fig. 4B). In addition to being targeted to the cell surface, GFP–AtAGP17 was also secreted into culture media. The same biochemical strategy used by Zhao et al. (2002) was employed here to purify the GFP–AtAGP17 fusion protein from the conditioned culture medium. By a three-step chromatographic procedure, sequentially involving hydrophobic interaction chromatography, gel filtration chromatography and reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (RP HPLC), the fusion glycoprotein was purified to homogeneity, as indicated by a single symmetric peak after HPLC fractionation (data not shown), and used for biochemical characterization. The GFP–AtAGP17 fusion protein was subjected to SDS–PAGE and detected by Western blot analysis with an anti-GFP polyclonal antibody. The apparent molecular weight ranged from 80,000 to 150,000 Da (Fig. 5). Heating the fusion protein prior to gel loading caused some GFP to dissociate from the fusion product, consistent with previous reports (Zhao et al. 2002, Sun et al. 2004b). More thorough removal of GFP from the fusion protein, however, was achieved by chymotryptic digestion of a chymotryptic cleavage site (i.e. a tyrosine residue) engineered within the BsrGI restriction site used in creating the transgene (Fig. 3). The carbohydrate moiety of the AtAGP17 glycoprotein covers the protein backbone and protects it from protease cleavage, as was the case for LeAGP-1 examined previously (Zhao et al. 2002). Amino acid composition analysis of AtAGP17 lacking GFP demonstrated that the molar percentages of amino acid residues matched those predicted from the AtAGP17 gene sequence, with 84% of the proline residues being hydroxylated to Hyp (Table 1). Glycosyl composition analysis of the GFP–AtAGP17 fusion protein showed that the protein backbone accounted for ∼31% of the total mass (i.e. dry weight) of the glycoprotein, while carbohydrate accounted for ∼69%. Excluding GFP (∼27 kDa), the protein backbone of AtAGP17 (14.3 kDa) accounted for ∼14% of the dry weight of the glycoprotein, while carbohydrate accounted for 86%. Glycosyl composition analysis of the fusion protein showed that the major glycosyl residues were arabinose (30.1%) and galactose (55.1%) and the minor components included rhamnose (6.0%) and glucuronic acid (8.8%) (Table 2). In addition, the fusion protein was precipitated by β-Yariv reagent (data not shown). Hyp glycoside profile analysis of the GFP–AtAGP17 fusion protein showed that 81% of the total Hyp had polysaccharide substituents, while the rest of the Hyp was either not glycosylated (7%) or attached to oligoarabinoses (12%) (Table 3). Glycosyl linkage analyses of GFP–AtAGP17 and GFP–LeAGP-1 fusion proteins were determined at the Carbohydrate Complex Research Center and at the University of Melbourne, respectively (Table 4). Glycosyl linkages of GFP–LeAGP-1 and GFP–AtAGP17 were consistent with that found in type II arabinogalactans. In particular, the branched 1,3,6-galactopyranose (Galp) linkage was the most abundant linkage, although both 1,3-Galp and 1,6-Galp were also present. Other notable linkages present include an abundance of terminal arabinose residues, particularly in LeAGP-1, with lesser amounts of terminal rhamnose and terminal galactose in both glycoproteins. Both of these glycoproteins also have considerable amounts of 1,4-linked and terminal glucuronic acid. Linkage analysis of GFP–AtAGP17 was generally, but not completely, consistent with the glycosyl composition data. Despite repeating the analysis, linkage analysis underestimated the amount of arabinose present, possibly because of the loss of volatile partially methylated alditol acetate derivatives of arabinose.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (ecotype Columbia) plants were grown at 23°C under a 15 h/9 h (light/dark) cycle. Tobacco (Nicotiana tobacum BY-2) cells were cultured in SH medium (Sigma, St Louis, MO, USA) and Arabidopsis cells were cultured in Gamborg’s B5 medium (Sigma) on a rotary shaker (120 rpm) at 26°C. A BsrGI restriction site was introduced to the 5′ end of AtAGP17 (TAIR database) immediately after the signal sequence, and a NotI restriction site was introduced to the 3′ end of AtAGP17 via polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification (Fig. 3). The 5′ sense primer containing the BsrGI site (underlined) was 5′-ATC ATG TAC AGT GGC CAA TCT CCG GCC ACC GCA CCG ATC-3′, and the 3′ antisense primer containing the NotI site (underlined) was 5′-CGC GGT GCG GCC GCT TTA GAA GGC TAG AAC AAG TAG AG-3′. The amplified AtAGP17 fragment was cloned into plasmid pUC-SStom-GFP-LeAGP-1 (Zhao et al. 2002) as a BsrGI–NotI fragment in place of the LeAGP-1 cDNA sequence. The new construct was designated as pUC-SStom-GFP-AtAGP17 and was sequenced at the Ohio University DNA sequencing facility. After sequencing, the construct was subcloned into the plant vector pBI121 (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA, USA) as a BamHI–SacI fragment in place of the glucuronidase reporter gene with the 35S cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) promoter left behind to drive expression. The pBI121-based plasmid harboring the GFP–AtAGP17 construct was delivered into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA4404 by the freeze–thaw method (An et al. 1988). Agrobacterium-mediated cell transformation and selection and maintenance of transformed tobacco cell lines were conducted as described by Zhao et al. (2002). Transgenic cells were subcultured every 2–3 weeks in SH medium. Expression of the GFP–AtAGP17 fusion protein in transgenic tobacco cells was observed using a Zeiss confocal laser scanning fluorescence microscope LSM510 with a GFP filter set (Zeiss, Germany). Purification of the GFP–AtAGP17 fusion protein was performed according to the procedure described by Shpak et al. (1999) with minor modifications. Briefly, conditioned medium was collected from 14- to 18-day-old transgenic tobacco cell suspension cultures, concentrated by rotary evaporation and dialyzed with distilled water. NaCl was added to concentrated cell medium to achieve a final concentration of 2 M, and then the medium was loaded on a phenyl-Sepharose 6 Fast Flow column (16×700 mm, Amersham Pharmacia Biotech Piscataway, NJ, USA), previously equilibrated in 2 M NaCl. The column was sequentially eluted with 1 M NaCl and distilled water. The fluorescent fraction, as visualized by UV light, was collected and freeze-dried. The sample was dissolved in water and loaded onto a Superose-12 gel filtration column (16 mm×500 mm, Amersham Pharmacia) equilibrated in 200 mM sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.0. The column was eluted with 200 mM sodium phosphate buffer. The high molecular weight fluorescent fusion protein was separated from dissociated GFP and a small amount of other proteins with lower molecular weights. The fraction with the fluorescent fusion protein was purified further by HPLC with a semi-preparative polymeric reverse-phase column (10 µm PRP-1, 7×305 mm; Hamilton Co., Reno, NV, USA) as previously described (Zhao et al. 2002). Neutral sugars were analyzed as alditol acetate derivatives by gas chromatography using a Hewlett-Packard HP-5 column (cross-linked 5% PH ME Siloxane, 30 m×0.32 mm×0.25 µm) programmed from 130 to 177°C at 1.2°C/min (Bhatti et al. 1970). Data were captured by Hewlett-Parkard ChemStation software. Purified GFP–AtAGP17 (100 µg) was used for each analysis with 50 nmol of myo-inositol as internal standard. Uronic acids of this glycoprotein (100 µg) were assayed by the colorimetric method based on the reaction with m-hydroxydiphenyl, using d-glucuronic acid as a standard (Blumenkrantz and Asboe-Hansen 1973). Linkage analysis was performed at the Complex Carbohydrate Research Center at the University of Georgia and at the Plant Cell Biology Research Centre at the University of Melbourne, as previously described (Kim and Carpita 1992, Merkle and Poppe 1994, Sims and Bacic 1995). GFP was removed from the GFP–AtAGP17 fusion protein by chymotryptic digestion as described by Zhao et al. (2002) with minor modifications. Briefly, an aqueous solution with 5–10 mg of fusion protein was heat denatured in boiling water for 2 min, cooled and then incubated with a freshly prepared 0.01% (w/v) chymotrypsin solution with 2% (w/v) ammonium bicarbonate and 5 mM CaCl2 for 24 h at room temperature. The sample was concentrated and subsequently fractionated with a Superose-12 gel filtration column and a PRP-1 column. Amino acid composition analysis of AtAGP17 without GFP (100 µg) was carried out by RP HPLC on a Beckman Gold System (Beckman Instruments Inc., Fullerton, CA, USA) after HCl hydrolysis and subsequent PITC (phenylisothiocyanate) derivatization, as described earlier (Bergman et al. 1986). GFP–AtAGP17 fusion protein (50 or 100 µg) was dissolved in distilled water and precipitated by addition of an equal volume of (β-d-galactosyl)3 Yariv reagent [1 mg ml–1 in 2% (w/v) NaCl aqueous solution] as described previously (Tan et al. 2003). Purified GFP–AtAGP17 fusion protein (∼10 mg) was hydrolyzed in 0.44 M sodium hydroxide (105°C, 18 h), neutralized, and fractionated on a C2 cation exchange column in order to elucidate the Hyp glycoside profile as described previously (Shpak et al. 1999). Seedlings, cultured cells and different organs of 1-month-old Arabidopsis plants were ground with a mortar and pestle in liquid nitrogen. Cauline and top rosette leaves were harvested as young leaves, while rosette leaves at the base of the plants were harvested as old leaves. Total RNA was extracted with the RNeasy Plant Total RNA kit (Qiagen, Chatsworth, CA, USA). RNA (10–20 µg) was electrophoresed in 1% agarose–formaldehyde gels and transferred by capillary action onto Zeta-Probe Genomic Tested Blotting Membranes following the manufacturer’s recommendations (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA, USA). DNA probes were labeled with [α-32P]dCTP using the Prime-a-gene labeling system (Promega, Madison, WI, USA). Equivalent loading of RNA samples was confirmed by ethidium bromide staining of rRNA. RNA gel blots were hybridized with AtAGP17, AtAGP18 and AtAGP19 gene probes, corresponding to the complete coding regions without the signal peptides at 65°C in hybridization buffer (7% SDS, 0.25 M sodium phosphate, pH 7.2) overnight and washed at 65°C in 1 : 4 diluted hybridization buffer twice and 1 : 7 diluted hybridization buffer once. Washed membranes were exposed with Kodak storage phosphor screens (Kodak, Rochester, NY, USA). The hybridization intensity of specific mRNAs was scanned and quantified using a Personal Molecular Imager FX (Bio-Rad). Sizes of the hybridizing RNAs were determined by comparison with a set of RNA size markers run in the gel (Promega). Although AtAGP17, AtAGP18 and AtAGP19 gene sequences share sequence similarities, Northern blots show no cross-hybidization between probes. All three probes hybridize to unique and separable mRNAs species corresponding to different mRNA sizes predicted for these three genes. The GFP–AtAGP17 fusion protein was separated by SDS–PAGE in 12% gels and subjected to Western blot analysis using an anti-GFP polyclonal antibody (BD Biosciences, San Diego, CA, USA) to detect the fusion protein, as described by Sun et al. (2004b). The protein sequences were downloaded from PubMed (http://www.pubmed.com). Alignment and phylogenetic analyses were performed using the Clustal X program (ftp://ftp-igbmc.u-strasbg.fr/pub/ClustalX/), and the phylogenetic tree was drawn using Treeview (http://taxonomy.zoology.gla.ac.uk/rod/treeview.html).
