!~ABS~! Vacuolar autophagy is a major pathway by which eukaryotic cells degrade macromolecules, either to remove damaged or unnecessary proteins, or to produce respiratory substrates and raw materials to survive periods of nutrient deficiency. During autophagy, a double membrane forms around cytoplasmic components to generate an autophagosome, which is transported to the vacuole. The outer membrane fuses with the vacuole or lysosome, and the inner membrane and its contents are degraded by vacuolar or lysosomal hydrolases. We have identified a small gene family in Arabidopsis thaliana, members of which show sequence similarity to the yeast autophagy gene ATG18. Members of the AtATG18 gene family are differentially expressed in response to different growth conditions, and one member of this family, AtATG18a, is induced both during sucrose and nitrogen starvation and during senescence. RNA interference was used to generate transgenic lines with reduced AtATG18a expression. These lines show hypersensitivity to sucrose and nitrogen starvation and premature senescence, both during natural senescence of leaves and in a detached leaf assay. Staining with the autophagosome-specific fluorescent dye monodansylcadaverine revealed that, unlike wild-type plants, AtATG18a RNA interference plants are unable to produce autophagosomes in response to starvation or senescence conditions. We conclude that the AtATG18a protein is likely to be required for autophagosome formation in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! blast searches (CITATION) of the Arabidopsis genome revealed eight potential encoded proteins related to Atg18, named AtATG18a–AtATG18h (see Experimental procedures for accession numbers). Sequence comparisons of the full-length proteins revealed that the predicted Arabidopsis proteins shared between 39% (AtATG18b) and 21% (AtATG18g) amino acid identity with yeast Atg18 (50–30% similarity, respectively, allowing for conservative substitutions). Based on phylogenetic analysis (Figure 1a), these eight predicted proteins appear to form three major subgroups: AtATG18a, c, d, and e cluster with the yeast protein Ygr223c, AtATG18b is most similar to Atg18 itself, and AtATG18f, g, and h are more divergent, forming a separate clade. None of the Arabidopsis proteins appear closely related to the yeast Cvt pathway-specific protein Atg21. To determine whether the clustering of Arabidopsis genes with yeast Ygr223c or Atg18 is statistically significant, the maximum likelihood (ML) tree was compared with all possible tree topologies containing the three yeast sequences constrained into a single clade. Approximately unbiased analysis indicated that the ML tree was significantly more likely than the best constrained tree (P = 0.996). [[FIGURE]] Sequence analysis with Pfam (CITATION) indicates that all AtATG18 genes are predicted to encode proteins with one to three WD-40 repeats; the numbers and locations of WD-40 domains in the AtATG18s, compared with the yeast proteins, are shown in Figure 1(b). All of the AtATG18 proteins are predicted by the 3D-PSSM fold recognition server (CITATION; http://www.sbg.bio.ic.ac.uk/3dpssm/) to fold as seven-bladed β-propellers with high similarity scores when compared with known seven-bladed propeller proteins (transducin β-subunit and the C-terminal domain of Tup1). No other conserved functional domains were identified in any of the predicted Arabidopsis proteins. To determine whether all AtATG18 genes have detectable transcript levels, and identify the organs where the genes are expressed, specific primers for each of the AtATG18s were designed and RT-PCR was performed using RNA from root, leaf, inflorescence stem, and flower. Seven of the AtATG18 transcripts were detected in all or some of the organs tested (Figure 2a), with AtATG18a, b, c, and d transcripts detected in all organs, and AtATG18f, g, and h having a more restricted expression pattern. AtATG18e was not detectable in any organ or under any of the conditions tested. [[FIGURE]] Based on morphological analyses (CITATION; CITATION) and mutant phenotypes (CITATION; CITATION) autophagy is thought to function in nutrient deprivation and senescence in plants. To investigate the expression pattern of the AtATG18 genes during nutrient deprivation, RT-PCR was performed using RNA from seedlings starved for sucrose or nitrogen. Four genes (AtATG18a, f, g, and h) showed an increase in transcript level in both sucrose and nitrogen starvation conditions (Figure 2b) whereas the others show no change under these conditions. To investigate the gene expression pattern during senescence, detached leaf assays were performed. First and second true leaves from 2-week-old seedlings were detached and incubated in the dark for up to 48 h, and RNA isolated. RT-PCR revealed only one gene, AtATG18a, whose transcript level increases during this artificial senescence process (Figure 2c). AtSEN1 and AtYSL4, two senescence-associated genes (CITATION), were used as senescence expression controls. Comparing the expression pattern of the AtATG18 genes during starvation and senescence, only AtATG18a is upregulated in both conditions, suggesting that AtATG18a may have an important role in these two conditions. We therefore decided to focus initially on the functional analysis of this member of the gene family. To investigate the physiological role of AtATG18a in Arabidopsis, RNA interference (RNAi) was used to generate transgenic plants with a reduced AtATG18a expression level. Arabidopsis thaliana plants were transformed (CITATION) with an RNAi construct consisting of an inverted repeat of a unique 500 bp region of the AtATG18a gene, with a portion of the GUS gene as a linker (CITATION), driven by the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. Transformants were screened by RT-PCR for AtATG18a transcript levels, and three RNAi lines with reduced AtATG18a transcript level were identified. The reduction in AtATG18a transcript level was gene-specific, as the other AtATG18s transcript levels were unchanged compared with those of wild-type (WT) plants (Figure 3). [[FIGURE]] To investigate the role of AtATG18a during nutrient starvation, growth of the AtATG18a RNAi lines was compared with WT plants under nitrogen or sucrose starvation conditions. For nitrogen starvation, 7-day-old seedlings grown on nutrient Murashige and Skoog (MS) solid medium were transferred to nitrogen-depleted MS solid medium and incubated in long-day light conditions. After 10 days of nitrogen starvation, the AtATG18a RNAi seedlings began to lose their green color and accumulate anthocyanins, whereas WT seedlings remained green (Figure 4a). After 20 days, the AtATG18a RNAi seedlings were brown, compared with the WT seedlings that retained some chlorophyll. Growth under carbon starvation conditions was also analyzed. For carbon starvation, 7-day-old seedlings grown on nutrient MS solid medium were transferred to MS solid medium without sucrose and incubated in 24-h dark conditions. RNAi seedlings were hypersensitive to carbon starvation, as chlorosis was observed earlier in all three AtATG18a RNAi lines compared with WT seedlings (Figure 4c). After 20 days, the cotyledons of AtATG18a RNAi seedlings were yellow whereas WT cotyledons retained a pale green color. [[FIGURE]] To further confirm the observed phenotype, the chlorophyll content of WT and RNAi seedlings was analyzed throughout the nitrogen and sucrose starvation time courses. Total chlorophyll per gram fresh weight of tissue was calculated according to CITATION and expressed as a percentage of the original chlorophyll content at 0 days. The chlorophyll content of AtATG18a RNAi plants decreased more rapidly during both nitrogen and carbon starvation compared with WT plants (Figure 4b,d). These results indicate that AtATG18a RNAi transgenic plants are more sensitive to nutrient deprivation conditions, and therefore AtATG18a may function in the response of plants to starvation. Under normal nutrient medium and soil conditions, the AtATG18a RNAi plants did not exhibit any differences compared with WT plants in rate or efficiency of seed germination, elongation of the root system, seedling development, or flowering time (data not shown). However, after bolting, the rosette leaves of AtATG18a RNAi plants senesced faster than WT plant rosette leaves (Figure 5a). Rosette leaves of RNAi plants were indistinguishable from WT rosette leaves at 30 days after germination. At 45 days, the rosette leaves of AtATG18a RNAi plants began to turn yellow, whereas WT leaves did not begin to senesce until around 60 days. After 75 days, most of the RNAi plant rosette leaves had senesced and were brown, whereas most of the WT rosette leaves remained green. [[FIGURE]] To better understand the role of AtATG18a during leaf senescence, a detached leaf assay was used (CITATION). The first and second true leaves of 2-week-old WT and AtATG18a RNAi seedlings, grown on nutrient-rich MS medium, were detached and incubated in the dark. Leaves from each of the RNAi lines displayed accelerated senescence when compared with WT leaves, demonstrated by the visible loss of chlorophyll (Figure 5b). The expression of two Arabidopsis leaf senescence marker genes, AtSEN1 and AtYSL4, was also examined during the detached leaf assay time course by RT-PCR (Figure 5c). For both genes, an increase in expression was observed earlier in the RNAi leaves than in WT leaves, with AtSEN1 increasing after 12 h in the RNAi lines compared with 24 h in the control. AtYSL4 was apparently already expressed at high levels in the RNAi lines, even at the 0 h time point, when compared with WT plants. This provides a molecular confirmation of the early senescence phenotype observed. In yeast, Atg18 is required for autophagosome formation (CITATION). Monodansylcadaverine (MDC) is a fluorescent drug that specifically stains autophagosomes in animals (CITATION) and Arabidopsis (CITATION). To investigate whether AtATG18a is required for autophagosome formation in Arabidopsis, 7-day old WT and AtATG18a RNAi seedlings were transferred to nitrogen or sucrose starvation conditions for 5 days, and then stained with MDC. Numerous moving MDC-stained autophagosomes accumulated in WT root cells during starvation, observed by fluorescence microscopy. This accumulation was disrupted in AtATG18a RNAi root cells (Figure 6), with no autophagosomes visible after either nitrogen or sucrose starvation. [[FIGURE]] To confirm that the lack of labeled structures in the RNAi lines is due to a loss of autophagosomes, rather than a change in their structure that prevents MDC staining, protoplasts from WT and RNAi plants were transformed with GFP-AtATG8e and starved for 2 days. Numerous motile GFP-labeled autophagosomes were seen in WT protoplasts, whereas only diffuse labeling was seen in the RNAi protoplasts (Figure 7), similar to that seen in WT protoplasts prior to starvation (CITATION). We conclude that loss of AtATG18a prevents autophagosome formation during starvation. [[FIGURE]] To determine the role of AtATG18a during senescence, protoplasts were prepared from WT- and RNAi-detached leaves after 3 days of dark incubation, and then stained with MDC (Figure 8). Whereas MDC-stained autophagosomes were abundant in the WT protoplasts, very few were seen in the AtATG18a RNAi protoplasts, indicating that senescence-induced autophagy also requires AtATG18a. These data imply that AtATG18a is required for autophagosome formation in Arabidopsis during nutrient stress and senescence, and further indicate that the phenotypes of hypersensitivity to nutrient deprivation and early senescence are caused by defects in normal autophagy function. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana plants were grown under long-day conditions (16 h light) at 22°C. Seeds were surface-sterilized in 33% bleach and 0.1% Triton X-100 solution for 20 min followed by cold treatment for at least 2 days. For nitrogen starvation experiments, 1-week-old seedlings grown on nutrient solid MS medium [Murashige–Skoog Vitamin and Salt Mixture (Gibco BRL, Gaithersburg, MD, USA), 1% sucrose, 2.4 mm MES (pH 5.7) and 0.8% phytagar] were transferred to nitrogen-depleted MS solid medium as described by CITATION and incubated under long-day conditions. For sucrose starvation experiments, 1-week-old seedlings grown on nutrient solid MS medium were transferred to MS solid medium without sucrose and incubated in the dark. For the detached leaf assay, first and second true leaves from 2-week-old seedlings grown on nutrient solid MS medium were excised and incubated on 3 MM paper wetted with 3 mm MES (pH 5.7) in the dark (CITATION). These leaves were used for phenotypic observation, RNA isolation, and protoplast isolation after the indicated times. AtATG18 genes were identified by searching the Arabidopsis genomic database with the Saccharomyces cerevisiae Atg18 protein sequence using the blast algorithm (CITATION). Eight AtATG18s were identified as follows, with the corresponding loci in parentheses; AtATG18a (At3g62770), AtATG18b (At4g30510), AtATG18c (At2g40810), AtATG18d (At3g56440), AtATG18e (At5g05150), AtATG18f (At5g54730), AtATG18g (At1g03380), and AtATG18h (At1g54710). The ML tree for our data was identified using the PROML program within the Phylip 3.62 package (CITATION), with the JTT matrix of amino acid substitutions and eight categories of substitution rates. The ML tree was compared to alternative topologies using codeml (CITATION) and consel (CITATION) programs. Bootstrap values were calculated by ML distance analysis using seqboot (CITATION), tree-puzzle 5.2 (CITATION) and weighbor 1.2.1 (CITATION) programs and the puzzleboot script from Mike Holder and Andrew Roger (http://hades.biochem.dal.ca/Rogerlab/Software/software.html). ML distances were calculated based on the JTT matrix, observed frequencies of amino acids, gamma distributed rates with eight categories, and an alpha parameter estimated from the data set. Total RNA was extracted from each sample using the TRIzol RNA isolation method (http://www.arabidopsis.org/info/2010_projects/comp_proj/AFGC/RevisedAFGC/site2RnaL.htmisolation) with DNase I treatment, and cDNAs were generated using Superscript II reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA) and an oligo dT primer. Primers used for PCR are shown in Table 1. According to the strategy described by CITATION, gene-specific sense and antisense fragments of AtATG18a were amplified by RT-PCR using the following primers: sense strand (5′-AGCGGATATCCTTAATTGCGATCCCTTTCG-3′ and 5′-TCGCTCTAGAGATCCGAACCAGAGTACCCTTA-3′), antisense strand (5′-AGCGGAATTCCTTAATTGCGATCCCTTTCG-3′ and 5′-ACGCGGATCCGATCCGAACCAGAGTACCCTTA-3′). Suitable restriction enzyme sites (EcoRV, XbaI, EcoRI, and BamHI, underlined) were introduced in the primer sequences. The sense and antisense DNA fragments were linked with a 1-kb spacer coding for a partial sequence of GUS. The entire fragment containing sense, spacer, and antisense region were cloned into the plant T-DNA binary vector pCGN, driven by the Cauliflower Mosaic Virus 35S promoter. This construct was introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV2260 by electroporation (CITATION). The RNAi construct was introduced into A. thaliana Columbia-0 plants by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation using the floral dip method (CITATION). RT-PCR was performed to determine the expression level of each AtATG18 gene in these transformants. Homozygous T2 transformant seeds with reduced AtATG18a mRNA level were used for further studies. A T-DNA insertion mutant in the 5′-untranslated region of AtATG18c (Salk_009459) was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. Homozygous plants were identified by PCR from genomic DNA. Primers used were AtATG18c gene-specific primers LP 5′-AAGAAAACGCAGACACGTGAA-3′ and RP 5′-CTCTCCTCGATTGAGACCAGG-3′, and T-DNA left border 5′-GCGTGGACCGCTTGCTGCAAC-3′ and right border 5′-CCGGACAGGTCGGTCTTGACAA-3′. Reduction in expression of AtATG18c in the mutant line was confirmed by RT-PCR using the primers described in Table 1. Seedlings were ground in 80% acetone and the absorbance of the supernatant was measured at 663 and 646 nm. Total chlorophyll content per gram fresh weight of tissue was calculated according to CITATION. Protoplasts were prepared from detached leaves according to CITATION and immediately stained with 0.05 mm MDC (Sigma, St Louis, MO, USA) in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) supplemented with 0.4 m mannitol for 10 min, then washed twice with PBS and 0.4 m mannitol to remove excess MDC. Seedlings were stained by immersion in 0.05 mm MDC in PBS for 10 min and washed twice with PBS (CITATION). After staining, the protoplasts or roots of seedlings were observed using fluorescence microscopy with a DAPI-specific filter. Transformation of WT and RNAi protoplasts with GFP-AtATG8e was performed as described in CITATION.
