!~ABS~! In a previous study on Arabidopsis thaliana suspension cells transiently infected with the microtubule end binding protein AtEB1a–green fluorescent protein (GFP), we reported that interphase microtubules grow from multiple sites dispersed over the cortex, with plus ends forming the characteristic comet-like pattern. In this study, AtEB1a-GFP was used to study the transitions of microtubule arrays throughout the division cycle of cells lacking a defined centrosome. During division, the dispersed origin of microtubules was replaced by a more focused pattern with the plus end comets growing away from sites associated with the nuclear periphery. The mitotic spindle then evolved in two quite distinct ways depending on the presence or absence of the preprophase band (PPB): the cells displaying outside-in as well as inside-out mitotic pathways. In those cells possessing a PPB, the fusion protein labeled material at the nuclear periphery that segregated into two polar caps, perpendicular to the PPB, before nuclear envelope breakdown (NEBD). These polar caps then marked the spindle poles upon NEBD. However, in the population of cells without PPBs, there was no prepolarization of material at the nuclear envelope before NEBD, and the bipolar spindle only emerged clearly after NEBD. Such cells had variable spindle orientations and enhanced phragmoplast mobility, suggesting that the PPB is involved in a polarization event that promotes early spindle pole morphogenesis and subsequent positional stability during division. Astral-like microtubules are not usually prominent in plant cells, but they are clearly seen in these Arabidopsis cells, and we hypothesize that they may be involved in orienting the division plane, particularly where the plane is not determined before division.
!~RES~! Time-lapse microscopy was used to follow the direction of plus end comet growth and the general staining pattern of AtEB1a-GFP around the cell cycle. A brief overview of the changing patterns of fluorescence is presented before focusing on phases of particular interest. As previously shown (CITATION), during interphase, plus end comets arose at multiple dispersed sites around the cortex, but with the onset of division, the nuclear periphery became a prominent site for microtubule outgrowth. Plus end comets were observed to grow out from the perinuclear region toward the cell cortex (see Supplemental Movie 1 online) to form a radial array, in contrast with the interphase array in which the microtubule ends are dispersed over the cortex. Prophase cells were also readily distinguishable from interphase cells by accumulations of AtEB1a-GFP around the periphery of their nuclear envelopes (Figures 1A and 1B ). [[FIGURE]] Metaphase spindles were characterized by general labeling of the microtubules with heavy concentrations of AtEB1a-GFP at their spindle poles (Figures 1C and 1D). Double labeling with antitubulin confirmed that the GFP signal was concentrated at the spindle poles (Figures 2A to 2E ), forming annular structures in favorably presented spindles (Figure 2E). Time-lapse movies showed that the dynamic ends of spindle microtubules were distal to these accumulations of AtEB1a-GFP at spindle poles (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] During telophase and cytokinesis, AtEB1a-GFP accumulated in two main locations: around the daughter nuclei and in the midzone of the phragmoplast (Figures 1E and 1F). The relationship of these locations to microtubules was confirmed by double labeling fixed cells with antitubulin antibodies (Figures 2F to 2Q). Time-lapse movies established that plus end comets grow away from the opposing faces of the daughter nuclei during telophase (see Supplemental Movie 2 online) and cytokinesis (see Supplemental Movie 3 online). This places the plus ends of microtubules at the midline of the phragmoplast, distal to the forming nuclear surfaces, in agreement with the hook decoration studies of CITATION. In favorably presented cells, the comets appeared to originate from foci of AtEB1a-GFP at the nuclear periphery (Figure 3 , focus 1)—often multiple comets emerged from a single focus (see foci 2 and 5). These foci were also highly dynamic, capable of circumferential and radial movement at the nuclear periphery, concomitant with the microtubule polymerization events (foci 2 and 3). In some cases, the foci exhibited a reduced intensity of fluorescence (focus number 5) or disappeared (focus number 1) after the emergence of the comets. [[FIGURE]] Time-lapse movies of anaphase and cytokinesis also showed that the plus end comets contribute to the midline location of AtEB1a-GFP at the phragmoplast. Supplemental Movie 2 online demonstrates that this labeling arose from the plus end comets of microtubules that grew from the opposing faces of the daughter nuclei, meeting at the midline. In actively expanding cells, this midline labeling was limited to the leading edge of the phragmoplast (Figures 4A to 4F ), resulting in a ring-shaped labeling pattern during symmetrical growth of the phragmoplast (Figure 4F); however, less regular patterns were formed during polarized forms of phragmoplast growth (e.g., Figure 1F). No evidence was found for the contrary outgrowth of microtubules from the phragmoplast midline toward the daughter nuclei. These data therefore indicate that the plus ends of growing microtubules are orientated toward the midzone of the phragmoplast. [[FIGURE]] By observing microtubule arrays in dividing Arabidopsis cells, we were able to identify a subpopulation of cells that divided without a PPB. Despite the absence of the predictive band of microtubules, the accumulation of label around the nuclear envelope (e.g., Figure 1A) marked these cells as premitotic and allowed them to be followed as they entered mitosis. Time-lapse studies revealed that there were two pathways for spindle pole development depending on whether a PPB was present or not. In this cell line, ∼70% of cells in prophase did not have a PPB even after the images were contrast stretched using an inverted grayscale image to visualize the cortex more clearly (Figure 5A , T0). All images presented in subsequent parts of the study were taken from cells that were tracked successfully through division (prophase cells representing 0.17% of transformed cells). [[FIGURE]] In cells without a PPB, the premitotic nucleus was associated with radial microtubule arrays. An important characteristic of mitosis in such cells was that spindle bipolarity always developed during prometaphase, after nuclear envelope breakdown (NEBD). This is exemplified in Figures 5A to 5D, where it can be seen that AtEB1a-GFP became diffusely distributed in the vicinity of the condensed chromosomes upon NEBD (Figure 5C). Spindle bipolarity was then expressed during prometaphase, with AtEB1a-GFP becoming concentrated at the spindle poles by metaphase/anaphase (Figure 5D). These data therefore show that cells proceeding into cell division without a PPB did not exhibit distinct, bipolar staining patterns of AtEB1-GFP until the bipolar axis of the spindle had been established after NEBD. By contrast, in those cells that did display a PPB, spindle bipolarity was established much earlier, at preprophase/prophase (Figures 5E to 5H). In these cases, spindle poles developed from sites at opposite sides of the premitotic nucleus so that the interpolar axis was perpendicular to the PPB (Figure 5G). This polar arrangement of AtEB1-GFP at prophase differed significantly from the nonpolarized form seen in cells without a PPB (cf. Figures 1A with 1B). The fact that polar caps of AtEB1a-GFP coexisted with the PPB suggested that the nuclear envelope was still intact during spindle morphogenesis. This was confirmed in Arabidopsis suspension cells expressing HDEL–yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) and immunostained with antitubulin antibodies (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). This showed that the nuclear envelope was intact when the PPB was present, indicating that the development of spindle bipolarity is flexible, in that it can occur both before and after NEBD. In addition to differences in spindle pole development, we also found that the orientations of spindles were different in the two subpopulations of cells. In all of the seven cells with a PPB that were tracked through division, the spindle formed in a predictable orientation, perpendicular to the long axis of the cell. This differed significantly to mitosis in the absence of a PPB, in which the premitotic nucleus was asymmetrically disposed and the equatorial plane of the spindle was variable. Of the 11 prophase cells observed by time lapse to undergo spindle formation in the absence of a PPB, eight spindles formed with equatorial planes parallel to the cell's long axis (as shown in Figures 5A to 5D) and two formed with equatorial planes perpendicular to the cell's long axis. The orientation of the remaining spindle was unknown because the cell was spherical in shape. It would therefore appear that in the absence of a PPB, the orientation of the spindle is indeterminate. Although two forms of early mitosis were seen in Arabidopsis suspension cells, the genesis of the phragmoplast proceeded by a single route—always occurring from the central spindle region. During the anaphase–telophase transition, the pronounced labeling at the poles declined, and AtEB1a-GFP relocated diffusely to the region of the central spindle and then became more focused again around the reformed nuclei (Figure 6 ). [[FIGURE]] As demonstrated in the movies of telophase cells (see Supplemental Movies 2 and 3 online), we observed microtubule outgrowth to occur from the nuclear periphery during the early stages of phragmoplast morphogenesis. During later stages, when the phragmoplast was expanding, we observed (Figure 6) that nucleus-associated strands of cytoplasm continued to contribute to the growing edge of the cytokinetic apparatus (T10.70 to T12.88). However, in some cells, the nucleus becomes less tightly associated with the phragmoplast and its growing front, with the cytokinetic apparatus appearing to break away during subsequent stages. This can be seen by comparing the relative positions of the lower nucleus in panel T10.70 with T12.83 of Figure 6. In this case, a GFP-labeled locus forms independently of the nuclear surface, with filaments radiating from it toward the midzone of the leading edge of the phragmoplast (Figure 6, panels T14.22 to T15.91); this could provide a potential means of expanding the phragmoplast as it grows beyond the corridor between the daughter nuclei. The process of centrifugal outgrowth also showed some variability in its behavior. We were able to follow by time lapse both symmetrical (11 cells, e.g., see Figures 3A to 3F) and polarized (five cells, where the phragmoplast contacts one mother wall first, see CITATION) forms of expansion in Arabidopsis suspension cells. The daughter nuclei of these Arabidopsis suspension cells often remained stationary during cytokinesis (e.g., see Figure 6). By contrast, we encountered cases where the nuclei moved. Figure 7 shows a different kind of polarized cytokinesis in which phragmoplast expansion began symmetrically (T0 min) but switched to polarized growth after contact of the cell plate with one side of the cell cortex (T9.46 min). Instead of remaining static, the daughter nuclei then migrated toward the opposite side of the cell in the wake of the outgrowing phragmoplast (T24.0 to T59.21 min). Microtubular fluorescence was then diminished at the side of the phragmoplast that had made first contact with the cell wall and became biased toward the leading edge of the phragmoplast, giving rise to a C-shaped array of microtubules (T24.0 to T59.21 min; note the loss of microtubules from the left-hand sides of both nuclei). [[FIGURE]] The final positioning of the cell plate also involved phragmoplast reorientation. Figure 8 (using an inverted grayscale image to visualize the cortex more clearly) shows an actively expanding phragmoplast rotate through 90° before selection of the division plane. Note that this rotation occurred in the same cell as illustrated in Figures 5A to 5D, underlining the fact that phragmoplast rotations (three cells) were only observed in cells undergoing mitosis in the absence of a PPB. In these cases, the phragmoplast reorientation resulted in division occurring along the shortest axis of the cell (Supplemental Movies 5 and 6 online show spindle and phragmoplast morphogenesis in the presence and absence of a PPB, respectively). [[FIGURE]] As shown in Figure 8 (but better seen in Supplemental Movies 2 and 3 online), a general and notable feature of mobile daughter nuclei was a subset of microtubules that emanated from polar caps of AtEB1a-GFP around the nuclear surfaces distal to the phragmoplast (see arrows in Figures 4, 7, and 8). These microtubules interacted with the cell cortex (see Supplemental Movie 2 online). The appearance of these microtubules, which were reminiscent of the astral microtubules of animal cell division, was cell cycle regulated. They gradually increased in length and number as cells progressed from metaphase (where a few, short microtubules emanated from spindle poles) to anaphase and telophase, during which numerous microtubules were observed radiating from the outer surfaces of the reforming daughter nuclei (see Figure 4). Like astral microtubules (CITATION), the average growth rate of these nucleus-associated microtubules was faster than reported for interphase rates of cortical microtubule polymerization (6.12 ± 0.29 μm/min; 52 microtubules versus 3.53 ± 0.26 μm/min; CITATION).
!~MM~! Suspension cultures of Arabidopsis thaliana (Columbia) were maintained as described in CITATION. Arabidopsis seedlings were grown on plates containing 3% (w/v) phytagel, 0.5% (w/v) sucrose, and 0.43% (w/v) MS powdered medium, with macro- and micro-elements (Duchefa, Haarlem, The Netherlands). Plates were incubated for 2 d at 4°C and then transferred to the growth room at 22°C under continuous lighting. Seedlings were used for confocal microscopy after 3 to 5 d. Cells were transformed with either AtEB1a-GFP or HDEL-YFP as described by CITATION, except that 200 μL of the Agrobacterium tumefaciens suspension was used to transform cells and that suspension cultures were supplemented with 50 μg/mL of acetosyringone before transformation. Expression of AtEB1-GFP was visible within 2 d, after which cells were subcultured to encourage division. The HDEL-YFP construct was obtained from Chris Hawes (Oxford Brookes University, Oxford, UK). The AtEB1a gene (introns and exons) plus 1 kb of sequence upstream of the open reading frame was amplified from genomic DNA and inserted into the pGEM-T-Easy vector (Promega, Southampton, UK) according to the manufacturer's instructions. The primers used for the PCR reaction were as follows: 5′-AAGGTACCTAACCGATTAGACTTGCAGG-3′ (AtEB1-3-kpn1) and 5′-TTGTCGACTTGGCTTGAGTCTTTTCTTC-3′, which amplified a product of 3263 bp. These primers also flanked the genomic DNA fragment with SalI and KpnI restriction enzyme sites. These sites were then used to cut the PCR product from the pGEM-T-Easy vector and ligate it into the pGR4 plasmid (provided by Gethin Roberts, John Innes Centre, Norwich, UK), which contains a C-terminal GFP tag. The native promoter:AtEB1a-GFP construct was checked by sequencing and transformed into Arabidopsis plants by transformation with Agrobacterium (strain gv3101) using the floral dip technique (CITATION). To select for transformants, T1 generation seeds were harvested and sown on MS powdered medium containing 50 μg/mL of kanamycin. Resistant seedlings were transplanted to soil and the T2 seeds analyzed for the segregation of kanamycin resistance. The χ2 test was used to predict lines containing a single copy of the transgene. Homozygous lines were then identified in the T3 generation and used for microscopic analysis of GFP expression. The 35S:AtEB1a-GFP construct was transformed into plants as described above. Transformed cells were fixed for 1 h in PME buffer (50 mM piperazine-N,N′-bis-[2-ethanesulphonic acid], 5 mM magnesium sulphate, and 5 mM ethylene-glycol-bis[β-aminoethylether]N,N,N′-tetracetic acid) plus 0.025 M sorbitol (PMES), containing 4% (w/v) formaldehyde and 0.1% (v/v) glutaraldehyde. After three washes in PMES, the cells were stuck to poly-l-Lys–coated slides and extracted in PMES containing 0.5% (w/v) Onozuka R-10 cellulase (Yakult, Tokyo, Japan), 0.05% (w/v) Pectolyase Y-23 (Yakult), and 0.05% (v/v) Triton X-100. Cells were labeled with rat antitubulin (YOL 1/34; Harlan Sera-Lab, Loughborough, UK; 1:50) and rabbit anti-GFP (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR; 1:100) diluted in PMES containing 1% (w/v) BSA. Primary antibody binding was then detected, after three washes in PMES, by applying anti-rabbit fluorescein isothiocyanate–conjugated (DAKO, Glostrop, Denmark; 1:200) and anti-rat CY3-conjugated antibodies (Amersham Biosciences, Little Chalfont, UK; 1:500) diluted as described above. The cells were washed four more times, stained with 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI; 3 μg/mL), and then mounted in Citifluor antifade mountant (City University Chemistry Department, London, UK). DNA was visualized by adding 25 μL of Triton X-100 (10% [v/v] stock; 0.25% [v/v] final concentration) and 5 μL of DAPI (3 μg/mL stock; 0.015 μg/mL final concentration) to 1 mL of suspension cells. Images were acquired using a Bio-Rad MRC 1024 confocal microscope (Hercules, CA). Cells were maintained in a modified chamber fitted with a gas-permeable membrane (bioFOLIE; VivaScience, Goettingen, Germany). Images were taken at 5- to 600-s intervals. Both EB1-GFP and HDEL-YFP were excited at 488 nm and visualized using a 515-nm long-pass filter. Microtubule growth rates were measured in the time-lapse images using the line and reslice tools of ImageJ (http://reb.info.nih.gov/ij/). For quantification experiments, single transgenic lines of AtEB1a-GFP under control of either 35S or native promoter were selected. In both cases, AtEB1a-GFP was uniformly expressed, and cells were phenotypically indistinguishable from those in control plants. Nonsaturated images of spindles labeled by AtEB1a-GFP were collected using a VisiTech spinning disc confocal microscope (Sunderland, UK) fitted with a ×60/1.4 oil objective lens. GFP was excited using the 488-nm line of an argon ion laser and the emitted light filtered through a 500- to 550-nm band-pass filter. Spindle fluorescence was detected using a Hamamatsu Orca ER cooled CCD camera (Hamamatsu City, Japan) with 4× binning, set at 1-s exposure time and 1-μm z-step intervals. Images were analyzed using ImageJ, z-sections were projected (max), and the average intensities of entire spindles calculated using the measure tool. Max z-projections ensured that the calculations were performed on complete spindles. Sequence data from this article have been deposited with the EMBL/GenBank data libraries under accession numbers At3g47690 (AtEB1-a), At5g62500 (AtEB1-b), and At5g67270 (AtEB1-c).
