!~ABS~! Condensin complexes are thought to play essential roles in mitotic chromosome assembly and segregation in eukaryotes. To date, two condensin complexes (condensin I and II) have been identified. Both complexes contain two structural maintenance of chromosome (SMC) subunits and three non-SMC subunits. In plants, little is known about the localization and function of all the condensin subunits. Here, we report the analyses on the localization of a non-SMC subunit of Arabidopsis condensin I and II, AtCAP-H, and AtCAP-H2, respectively. Our study indicated that localization of AtCAP-H and AtCAP-H2 is dynamically changed through the mitotic cell cycle using GFP-tagged AtCAP-H and AtCAP-H2 in tobacco cultured cells. They are localized at mitotic chromosomes from prometaphase to telophase. However, their localization in interphase is quite different. AtCAP-H was mainly found in the cytoplasm whereas AtCAP-H2 was mainly found in a nucleolus. It is revealed using GFP-tagged deletion mutant s of AtCAP-H that the kleisin-γ middle domain (GM domain) is a unique domain only in AtCAP-H, responsible for chromosomal localization. We propose that the GM domain of CAP-H is essential for its chromosomal localization at mitosis and thus proper function of CAP-H. Differences in localization of AtCAP-H and AtCAP-H2 at interphase also suggest their functional differentiation.
!~RES~! Based on the nucleotide sequences of putative AtCAP-H (At2g32590) and AtCAP-H2(At3g16730), we designed the gene-specific primers to obtain the coding region of the genes and performed RT-PCR to amplify the cDNAs. Sequence analysis revealed that AtCAP-H contained a 2016-bp coding region with 13 exons in 3790-bp genomic sequence. AtCAP-H2 contained a 2052-bp coding region with 11 exons in 3231-bp genomic sequence. The deduced AtCAP-H and AtCAP-H2 proteins have 671 amino acids and 683 amino acids, respectively. The amino acid sequences and gene structures are shown in Fig. 1a. The nucleotide sequences have been submitted to DDBJ under accession numbers AB193292 (AtCAP-H) and AB193291 (AtCAP-H2). AtCAP-H and AtCAP-H2 belong to the kleisin superfamily and also have the relatively conserved N- and C-terminal regions (Fig. 1a, underlined). In addition, AtCAP-H has the conserved domain among CAP-H in the middle region (Fig. 1a boxed, Fig. 1b). This domain was referred to as the kleisin-γ middle (GM) domain. [[FIGURE]]  Then, we designed the genes-specific primers and analyzed the expression pattern of AtCAP-H and AtCAP-H2 using semiquantitative reverse transcriptase-mediated (RT) PCR from Arabidopsis roots, stems, leaves, flower buds, flowers, and whole plants germinated after three days. AtCAP-H expressed at higher levels in flower bud and flower than the other organs. AtCAP-H2 was not different in expression level among tissues examined (Fig. 2). [[FIGURE]]  To investigate localization patterns of AtCAP-H and AtCAP-H2, transient expression of GFP-AtCAP-H and GFP-AtCAP-H2 were monitored in A. thalianaT87 cells. Approximately 0.01% of the cells showed GFP fluorescence in 1×105 cells, although about 1–10% of the cells showed GFP fluorescence in the case where only the GFP genes were transformed. As shown in Fig. 3, GFP-AtCAP-H was mainly localized in the cytoplasm while GFP-AtCAP-H2 was localized at the nucleus, especially in the nucleolus. [[FIGURE]]  To investigate the dynamic localizations of AtCAP-H and AtCAP-H2, we transformed either GFP-AtCAP-H or GFP-AtCAP-H2 into bright yellow-2 (BY-2) tobacco cells. BY-2 cultured cells are suitable materials for dynamic analyses during mitosis because the chromosome size is large and the cell cycle is short. The transformed cells were selected in the media containing hygromycin. In each transformation line, almost all cells show the same GFP fluorescence pattern. The growth rate and the morphology of each cell line were almost the same as the original BY-2 cells (data not shown). Figure 4 shows the subcellular localization of GFP-AtCAP-H at different cell stages. In interphase, GFP signals were predominantly localized in the cytoplasm of the cells transformed with GFP-AtCAP-H. This localization pattern was the same as that in Arabidopsis T87 cells. GFP-AtCAP-H was not localized at mitotic chromosomes but localized at the cytoplasm until the end of prophase. In prometaphase, the signals were detected on the chromosomes. In metaphase, almost all the signals were moved to the chromosomes and the signal intensity was rapidly increased. After chromosome segregation, a few signals were diffused into the cytoplasm but the main signal remained on the chromosomes. The signals at the chromosomes were finally diffused to the cytoplasm after cytokinesis. [[FIGURE]]  The dynamics in localization of GFP-AtCAP-H2 are shown in Fig. 5. In interphase, GFP signals were mainly detected in the nucleolus and slightly detected in the nucleoplasm. The GFP signals were also detected on the chromatin in interphase, suggesting that AtCAP-H2 interacts with interphase chromatin. This localization pattern was also the same as that in Arabidopsis T87 cells. The signals were localized in the nucleolus until the end of prophase. The signals were moved mainly to the entire chromosomes after the nucleolus disappeared. The signal intensity on the chromosomes was weaker than that of AtCAP-H. During the chromosome segregation, the signals were equally localized on both chromatids. When the nucleolus was formed in the nucleus, the signals appeared again in the nucleolus. [[FIGURE]]  AtCAP-H has two relatively conserved N- and C-terminal regions among the proteins in the kleisin superfamily. Thus, AtCAP-H was structurally differentiated into the three conserved regions such as the N-terminal region (N-region, 1–199 aa), the middle region (M-region, 200–520 aa) and the C-terminal region (C-region, 521–671 aa). In addition, among the kleisin-γ family, a highly conserved ten amino acid sequence (GM domain, 406–415 aa, WAGPDHWKYR) was found in AtCAP-H. To dissect which domains of AtCAP-H are involved in such chromosomal localization, AtCAP-H deletion mutants were fused with GFP and their localizations in transformed BY-2 cells were examined. The GFP-AtCAP-H deleted with only 151 aa of the C-terminal region (GFP-NM) or deleted with 199 aa of the C-terminal region (GFP-MC) localized at most of the mitotic chromosomes but the localization is slightly loose (Fig. 6). Similar results were obtained for GFP-AtCAP-H with 321 aa of the middle region (GFP-M), although the signals were observed not only on the chromosomes but also in the cytoplasm. However, the GFP-AtCAP-H with the N-region or C-region showed no longer localization at mitotic chromosomes (GFP-N and GFP-C). Thus, the protein domains responsible for chromosomal localization would be at least in the M-region of AtCAP-H. Moreover, the deletion of the GM domain (Fig. 1) resulted in no localization of the GFP-AtCAP-H (GFP-GM del.) at mitotic chromosomes. The mutant proteins with the GM domain were localized on chromosomes in mitotic cells. Thus, the GM domain is essential for AtCAP-H to be localized on mitotic chromosomes. [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia (Col-0) was used for isolation of AtCAP-H and AtCAP-H2. Plants were grown at 22°C under a 16-h light/8 h dark regime. A. thaliana cell line T87 was obtained from the RIKEN BioResource Center (Tsukuba, Japan). The T87 cells were maintained at 23°C under continuous light. Nicotiana tabacum suspension culture cell line, Bright Yellow 2 (BY-2), was used for the localization analysis using GFP fusion genes. The BY-2 cells were subcultured weekly, 50-fold diluted with Linsmaier and Skoog (LS) medium according to Nagata et al. (CITATION). The cell suspension was agitated on a rotary shaker at 130 rpm at 25°C in the dark. Total RNA was extracted from Arabidopsis roots, stems, leaves, flower buds, flowers, and whole plants germinated after three days using TRI REAGENT (Molecular Research Center, Inc. Cincinnati, OH, USA). The mRNAs were isolated from the total RNA samples using PolyATtract mRNA Isolation Systems (Promega). The mRNA was used for the first strand cDNA synthesis using a poly dT primer. The cDNA fragments of AtCAP-H and AtCAP-H2 were amplified using gene specific primers (5′-GCTGCTAAACAATTTAGGAGTCTATGG-3′ and 5′-GCAGGTTGAACATCTGGACCTT-3′ for AtCAP-H, 5′-TCACACCTGGATGCTCTTCTCGC-3′ and 5′-CTACACAATCTAATTTGAGTAGTCACAAT-3′ for AtCAP-H2). RT-PCR was also performed with actin2 primers as a control (Ratcliffe et al. CITATION). Cloning of AtCAP-H and AtCAP-H2 was performed as described by Sambrook et al. (CITATION). The coding sequences of AtCAP-H (At2g32590) and AtCAP-H2 (At3g16730) were amplified using gene-specific primers with the recombination site (AtCAP-H, 5′-AAAAAGCAGGCTCCATGGATGAATCCTTAACTCCAAACCC-3′ and 5′-AGAAAGCTGGGTCTCAGGCAAGGTGTATTGTTAGATCATCC-3′; AtCAP-H2, 5′-AAAAAGCAGGCTCAATGACCAGTCACGGTGGCGGG-3′ and 5′-AGAAAGCTGGGTTTCACAATTTCCCCAAAGATTTTTCGATTGAAGC-3′. The recombination sites are shown in italic). The amplified fragments were cloned into pDONE221 using a in vitro recombination system (Invitrogen). The nucleotide sequences were checked with a DNA sequencer (ABI prism 3100 Genetic analyzer, Applied Biosystems). Thereafter, cloned cDNAs were recombined into the binary vector, pGWB6, with a recombination cassette for the expression of GFP-fused proteins under the control of a CaMV35S promoter. Deletion mutants were generated with PCR primers incorporating the deletion, and the deletion of each construct was confirmed by DNA sequencing. Polyethylene glycol (PEG)-mediated A. thaliana protoplast transformation was according to the method described by Leon et al. (CITATION) with some modifications. The T87 cells were incubated in enzyme solution containing 1% (w/v) Cellulase Onozuka R-10 (Yakult Honsha, Tokyo, Japan), 0.25% (w/v) Macerozyme R-10 (Yakult Honsha), 8 mM CaCl2, 0.5 M mannitol, pH5.5 for 2 h at room temperature under gentle shaking. Protoplasts were collected by centrifugation for 5 min at 75 g, washed twice with W5 solution (154 mM NaCl, 125 mM CaCl2, 5 mM KCl, and 5 mM glucose, pH 5.8), and resuspended in MaMg solution (0.4 M mannitol, 15 mM MgCl2, and 5 mM MES pH 5.7). After incubation on ice for 30 min, protoplasts were adjusted to 1×106 cells/ml with MaMg solution. A 100-μl of PEG solution (40% (w/v) polyethylene glycol, 0.4 M mannitol, and 0.1 M Ca(NO3)2) was added for 100 μl of plasmid-protoplasts solution and mixed gently. After incubation for 20 min at room temperature, 400 μl of W5 solution was added and the PEG solution was removed by centrifugation for 5 min at 75 g. The protoplasts were resuspended in W5 solution and left at 23°C. Transformation was performed using BY-2 cells 2 days after subculture as described previously (Fujimoto et al. CITATION). After 3-day incubation at 25°C, the inoculated BY-2 cells were transferred into liquid LS medium containing 500 μg/ml carbenicillin and 10 μg/ml hygromycin. The resulting transformed cell lines were maintained by 50-fold dilutions at weekly intervals as described above. Two days after subculture, BY-2 cells were used for the localization analysis. DNA in the cells were visualized with 0.25 μg/ml of DAPI (4′, 6-diamidino-2-phenylindole) containing 0.01% Triton X-100. The cell images were obtained with a Zeiss Axioplan II fluorescence microscope and a cooled CCD camera (MicroMax, Roper Scientific Princeton Instruments, Trenton, NJ, USA). Further image processing and assembly were performed with the Adobe Photoshop software (Adobe System, Mountain View, CA, USA).
