!~ABS~! The chloroplast contains many iron (Fe)-sulfur (S) proteins for the processes of photosynthesis and nitrogen and S assimilation. Although isolated chloroplasts are known to be able to synthesize their own Fe-S clusters, the machinery involved is largely unknown. Recently, a cysteine desulfurase was reported in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana; AtCpNifS) that likely provides the S for Fe-S clusters. Here, we describe an additional putative component of the plastid Fe-S cluster assembly machinery in Arabidopsis: CpIscA, which has homology to bacterial IscA and SufA proteins that have a scaffold function during Fe-S cluster formation. CpIscA mRNA was shown to be expressed in all tissues tested, with higher expression level in green, photosynthetic tissues. The plastid localization of CpIscA was confirmed by green fluorescent protein fusions, in vitro import, and immunoblotting experiments. CpIscA was cloned and purified after expression in Escherichia coli. Addition of CpIscA significantly enhanced CpNifS-mediated in vitro reconstitution of the 2Fe-2S cluster in apo-ferredoxin. During incubation with CpNifS in a reconstitution mix, CpIscA was shown to acquire a transient Fe-S cluster. The Fe-S cluster could subsequently be transferred by CpIscA to apo-ferredoxin. We propose that the CpIscA protein serves as a scaffold in chloroplast Fe-S cluster assembly.
!~RES~! In earlier studies, the NifS-like protein AtCpNifS from Arabidopsis was shown to have Cys desulfurase activity and to be located in the chloroplast (CITATION; CITATION). To identify another Arabidopsis protein(s) that might be involved in Fe-S cluster formation in plastids, a database search was performed to identify homologs of the cyanobacterial Synechocystis PCC 6803 IscA proteins. BLAST searches in the Munich Information Center for Protein Sequences (http://mips.gsf.de/proj/thal/db/) and The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR; http://www.arabidopsis.org) databases revealed the presence of one IscA-like protein (At1g10500). TargetP predictions suggest that this protein is a chloroplast protein with a 55-amino-acid-long chloroplast transit sequence. The corresponding gene was named AtCpIscA, and its cDNA was cloned using reverse transcription-PCR. Alignment of the AtCpIscA primary sequence with IscA- and SufA-like proteins from cyanobacteria and E. coli reveals the presence of three conserved Cys residues (residues 104, 170, and 172), including the characteristic motif CXC and a conserved Asp (residue 149) in the C-terminal region (Fig. 1A). These residues are conserved among all IscA-type proteins from prokaryotic and eukaryotic organisms. In addition to the three Cys conserved in all IscA-type proteins, AtCpIscA contains two other Cys, at residues 94 and 135, which are also present in cyanobacterial IscA1 from Synechocystis PCC 6803. AtCpIscA exhibits higher sequence similarity to IscA1 (Slr1417) from Synechocystis PCC 6803 (58% identity) and IscA from E. coli (47% identity) compared to the mitochondrial IscA-like protein from Arabidopsis (At2g16710; 24%) and SufA from E. coli (25%). Consequently, in a phylogenetic analysis, AtCpIscA was grouped with cyanobacterial IscA1 and E. coli IscA, separate from E. coli SufA and the Arabidopsis mitochondrial NifA-like protein (Fig. 1B). [[FIGURE]] The AtCpIscA gene expression pattern in different tissues was analyzed using RNA-blot analysis (Fig. 2). Ten micrograms of total RNA extracted from roots, stems, leaves, and flowers was electrophoresed, and ethidium bromide staining was used to verify equal loading. Northern-blot analysis reveals that AtCpIscA is expressed in all tested tissues, with higher expression level in green photosynthetic tissues (leaves and stems) than non-green tissues (roots and flowers; Fig. 2). [[FIGURE]] The TargetP program (CITATION) predicted a chloroplast localization of AtCpIscA and a cleavable transit sequence of 55 amino acids. To examine the subcellular localization, we constructed fusions with the green fluorescent protein (GFP). GFP was fused to the coding region for the predicted chloroplast transit sequence of CpIscA (TP-IscA-GFP) and to the full-length IscA including its transit sequence (Full length-IscA-GFP). GFP alone expressed from the same constitutive promoter was used as a control. The localization in cells was analyzed using confocal laser microscopy. Fluorescence corresponding to GFP expressed without a transit sequence was excluded from the chloroplasts as expected (Fig. 3, top). By contrast, green fluorescence from TP-IscA-GFP was localized to the chloroplast stroma, as indicated by the overlay of green fluorescence and red autofluorescence (Fig. 3, middle). Because chloroplast transit sequences effectively mediate translocation of a passenger protein across the envelope (CITATION), this is the expected location for a transit sequence fusion. Interestingly, green fluorescence from the full-length CpIscA coupled to GFP (Full length-IscA-GFP) was localized to discrete locations in the chloroplast stroma, which may be indicative of the inclusion in discretely localized complexes (Fig. 3, bottom). [[FIGURE]] To investigate the chloroplast localization of CpIscA by an alternative method and to determine the size of the mature CpIscA protein in plastids, we performed an in vitro chloroplast uptake experiment (Fig. 4A). Radiolabeled precursor protein was produced by in vitro transcription of the cloned cDNA and subsequent translation of the synthetic mRNA in the presence of 35S-Met. The translation reaction (Fig. 4A, right, PR) resulted in a radiolabeled protein band with a size expected for the precursor. In addition to the precursor, two translation products with a size smaller than the expected mature protein were present that may result from initiation at either of the two downstream AUG codons corresponding to residues 65 and 85. The translation mixture including the precursor was incubated with purified intact chloroplasts in the light and in the presence of ATP. After import and treatment with protease, the chloroplasts were recovered and proteins were analyzed by SDS-PAGE (Fig. 4A). The E. coli-expressed recombinant mature CpIscA was electrophoresed in the same gel to allow a direct comparison of the molecular mass with the imported protein. Chloroplasts incubated with the precursor encoded by CpIscA and treated with protease accumulated a protein of about 14 kD in size that has the same electrophoretic mobility as the purified recombinant mature protein. Quantitation of the precursor and the mature bands indicated that 32% of the added CpIscA precursor was imported in this assay, which was comparable to the plastocyanin control (data not shown). We conclude that the CpIscA precursor contains plastid-targeting information and that the protein is active in the chloroplast. The recombinant protein purified from E. coli corresponds in size to the imported mature CpIscA. [[FIGURE]] To analyze localization and expression levels in Arabidopsis plants, we raised an antibody (see “Materials and Methods”) that was used in immunoblots to analyze the presence of CpIscA in total leaf homogenate and chloroplast stroma fractions. The antibody recognized a band corresponding to the size of mature CpIscA in total homogenate and isolated stroma, confirming the stromal localization of AtCpIscA (Fig. 4B). The mobility of the detected CpIscA protein band in plant fractions is the same as that of purified recombinant CpIscA. Control experiments showed that these bands were not detected with preimmune serum (data not shown). Based on comparisons of the CpIscA staining intensities in stromal fractions and purified protein, we estimate the abundance of CpIscA in stroma to be approximately 0.01% to 0.02% of protein, which is slightly lower than the measured abundance of CpNifS (CITATION). To investigate the oligomeric state of CpIscA in the stroma, a gel filtration experiment was performed using a high-resolution column and detection of AtCpIscA using immunoblotting (Fig. 4C). Approximately 90% of the stromal IscA was eluted in a single peak at high molecular mass (approximately 600 kD, fractions 17–20). In addition, a smaller amount of IscA was eluted as a dimer. This result indicates that CpIscA present in stroma interacts with other proteins in vivo and may form a transient complex with them. Interestingly, a fraction of CpNifS was also detected in a complex of approximately 600 kD (CITATION), and coelution of CpIscA and CpNifS was confirmed by gel filtration (data not shown). The coding sequence for mature CpIscA (without transit sequence) was cloned into the expression vector pET11d, and the mature-sized protein was expressed in BL21 codon+ E. coli cells. Three hours after induction with isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside (0.4 mm), a protein with a molecular mass of about 14 kD accumulated to about 5% to 10% of the soluble protein, as shown by Coomassie Brilliant Blue staining (Fig. 5, lane 1). This molecular mass is in agreement with the molecular mass calculated from the DNA sequence (13,971 D). Soluble IscA was purified using cation exchange chromatography and a gel filtration step (Fig. 5, lanes 2 and 3). The protein was eluted from the calibrated S200 gel filtration column with an apparent molecular mass of 54 kD, suggesting that the protein is purified as a tetramer (data not shown). N-terminal sequencing (Macromolecular Resources, Colorado State University) by Edmann degradation yielded the sequence RNRLSV, corresponding to the predicted N-terminal sequence of mature CpIscA. The pure CpIscA protein was colorless, indicating it did not contain an Fe-S cluster while in E. coli. [[FIGURE]] To study the role of CpIscA in Fe-S cluster formation, an in vitro reconstitution assay was developed. In this assay, apo-Fd was reconstituted to the holo-form by acquiring an Fe-S cluster, which was synthesized in vitro from Cys S and a ferrous Fe salt. Holo-Fd was separated from apo-Fd and other proteins and quantified by HPLC using an ion-exchange column. The activity of CpNifS proved to be sufficient and required for the Fe-S cluster formation in Fd (CITATION). However, other proteins may promote the efficiency of CpNifS-mediated holo-Fd formation in a plant cell. In the presence of all necessary substrates for Fe-S cluster formation, except CpNifS, CpIscA alone did not show any reconstitution activity. However, preincubation of CpIscA with CpNifS significantly increased subsequent Fd reconstitution activity compared to that shown by CpNifS alone (P < 0.05; Fig. 6). The observed modest increase in reconstitution activity was a first indication of a possible role of CpIscA in Fe-S cluster formation. [[FIGURE]] The stimulation of CpNifS-dependent Fd reconstitution activity by CpIscA suggested possible interactions between CpIscA and CpNifS in the Fe-S cluster formation where CpIscA may be a scaffold for cluster assembly and an intermediate in Fe-S insertion. To investigate this possibility in more detail, CpIscA (300 μg) was incubated with CpNifS (75 μg) in reconstitution buffer (5 mm dithiothreitol [DTT], 1 mm l-Cys, 1 mm ferrous ammonium sulfate, 20 μm pyridoxal 5′ phosphate [PLP]) for 30 min and then applied to a gel filtration column (Fig. 7A, line 3). As controls, apo-CpIscA (300 μg) incubated in gel filtration buffer or in reconstitution buffer, as well as CpNifS alone (75 μg), were incubated and run through the same column (Fig. 7A, lines 1, 2, and 4, respectively). Proteins were detected by A280 (Fig. 7) and 420 nm (data not shown). Purified untreated apo-CpIscA eluted from the column in a peak with a retention time expected for the tetramer but a shoulder was present, suggesting the existence of lower-molecular mass IscA species (Fig. 7A, line 1). Incubation of ApoIscA with DTT-containing buffer resulted in mainly the dimeric form of the protein (line 2). No absorbance was detected at 420 nm, indicating the absence of Fe-S clusters in the apo-IscA fractions (data not shown). As shown in Figure 7A (line 3), incubation of CpIscA with CpNifS resulted in two major peaks corresponding to CpNifS and a CpIscA dimer, according to its calculated molecular mass. SDS-PAGE (Fig. 7B) indicated that the peak of CpNifS eluted at 17.5 min (fraction 28) and the dimeric CpIscA at 20.5 min (fraction 34). Interestingly, the peak corresponding to reconstituted dimeric CpIscA could also be detected by A420 (data not shown), suggesting the presence of an Fe-S cluster. Apo-CpIscA (line 2) and reconstituted dimeric CpIscA (line 3) were collected from gel filtration runs, and their absorption spectra were measured (Fig. 7C). Unreconstituted CpIscA showed only one peak at 280 nm, characteristic for aromatic residues in proteins. Reconstituted CpIscA (fraction 34), however, showed extra maxima at 330 nm, 420 nm (with a shoulder at 470), and 580 nm, indicative of a 2Fe-2S cluster (Fig. 7C). In a typical 2Fe-2S cluster, absorption from 420 nm to 460 nm is attributed to the vibration between Fe and bridging inorganic S (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] The presence of Fe in CpIscA was determined chemically (see “Materials and Methods”) using spinach (Spinacia oleracea) holo-Fd as control, which contains one 2Fe-2S cluster per protein. We measured 2.0 ± 0.2 Fe/protein for spinach holo-Fd. Reconstituted CpIscA contained 1.4 ± 0.2 Fe/dimer, while no Fe was detected in the apo-form. Because the reconstituted fraction obtained after incubation with CpNifS (line 3) still may contain some inactive apo-CpIscA, a number slightly lower than two is expected for the number of Fe atoms/dimer. These data indicate that the isolated and reduced CpIscA is a clusterless apo-protein, while the reconstituted dimer may contain a 2Fe-2S cluster. The Fe-S cluster formed in IscA is stable since treatment with Fe chelator (1 mm EDTA) or overnight incubation at 4°C did not induce destruction of the Fe-S cluster, as indicated by the reconstitution efficiency (data not shown). As CpIscA appeared to have an Fe-S cluster, the potential transfer of the Fe-S cluster to apo-Fd was investigated. Both apo- and holo-CpIscA (150 μg) were collected from the gel filtration column and incubated with 30 μg of apo-Fd in the presence of 5 mm DTT at 37°C for 30 min. As controls, holo-Fd (30 μg) alone and holo-IscA (150 μg) alone were incubated. Incubation mixtures were used for holo-Fd analysis by HPLC. As shown in Figure 8A, the apo-CpIscA fraction did not lead to any formation of holo-Fd, while 50% (15 μg) of apo-Fd was reconstituted to holo-Fd by acquiring an Fe-S cluster from the dimeric holo-CpIscA. To test if the amount of holo-Fd formation depends on the amount of holo-IscA, various amounts of holo-IscA were incubated with apo-Fd (30 μg) for 30 min and the amount of holo-Fd was assayed (Fig. 8B). The amount of holo-Fd formed increased with increasing the amount of holo-IscA. Importantly, in the same condition when holo-IscA (60 μg) was incubated with apo-Fd (30 μg) in the presence of 1 mm EDTA, reconstitution was still observed with 70% activity of the reaction without EDTA indicating direct transfer from IscA to Apo-Fd (data not shown). Thus, it is proposed that holo-CpIscA can be formed from Apo-CpIscA by acquisition of a transient Fe-S cluster, which it can subsequently deliver to apo-Fd. This suggests a role for CpIscA as a scaffold during Fe-S cluster formation in plastids and in transfer of the formed cluster to apo-Fe-S proteins. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) CpIscA coding sequence was amplified by PCR using cDNA as a template. cDNA was prepared from DNase-treated total RNA prepared from 2-week-old seedlings as described (CITATION). Primers used for IscA amplification were 5′-GCTCTAGACAGAAGATTATGGCTTTCGC-3′ (forward primer) and 5′-TCCCCCGGGTGTGAAACTGGTTCACATCT-3′ (reverse primer). Underlined bases indicate XbaI and SmaI sites, respectively. The PCR product was digested with XbaI and SmaI and then ligated into a pBS (KS+) vector (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA), digested with the same restriction enzymes to produce plasmid pPrIscA. To subclone the mature sequence of IscA in pET11d for expression, PCR was performed with another set of nested primers, 5′-CATGCCATGGCTGTTCGATCCGCTTCGGTTC-3′ (forward primer) and 5′-CGGGATCCTCACATCTCGGCAGCAAAAGA-3′ (reverse primer). Underlined bases indicate NcoI and BamHI sites, respectively. The PCR product was digested with NcoI and BamHI and subcloned in pET11d to produce plasmid pMIscA. Construction of the plasmid for expression of the transit peptide (TP; amino acids 1–55) of IscA fused to GFP was performed as follows. The sequence encoding the predicted TP of IscA was amplified by PCR using flanking primers SalI-N (5′-GAATGGTCGACATGGGCTTTCGCTACTGGAATCACG-3′) and NcoI-C-TP (5′-CATGCCATGGACATCTCGGCAGCAAAAGACTTCC-3′). To make a fusion of GFP with the full-length protein, the entire coding sequence of IscA was amplified by PCR using flanking primers SalI-N and NcoI-C-Fl (5′-CATGCCATGGCTGATCTCATCTTACTCAGATGCTTAA-3′). pPrIscA plasmid was used as a template for PCR. PCR products were digested and inserted into the SalI/NcoI-digested GFP reporter plasmid, 35Ω-SGFP(S65T), to create the TP/IscA-GFP and Full length-IscA-GFP, respectively. The inserts in all plasmids were sequenced by the dideoxy dye termination method to ensure that no error was introduced during PCR reactions. The plasmids used for protoplast transformation were prepared using the Plasmid Midi kit (QIAGEN, Valencia, CA). Sequence analysis was performed using the Mac Vector sequence analysis software (International Biotechnologies, New Haven, CT). Searches for sequence similarity were performed using the BLAST network service provided by the National Center for Biotechnology Information (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov). Sequence alignment was performed using ClustalW at European Bioinformatics Institute, ExPASY Proteomics tools (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/clustalw). Phylogenetic analysis was performed using the PAUP (Sinauer Associates, Sunderland, MA; version 4.0b10) heuristic search method with tree bisection-reconnection branch swapping (CITATION). Bootstrap analysis with 1,000 random replicates was performed using the heuristic method. The pPrIscA plasmid was linearized with KpnI and transcribed in vitro using T7 polymerase (Epicenter Technologies, Madison, WI) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Radiolabeled precursors were synthesized in a wheat germ lysate system in the presence of 35S-Met (25 μCi/50 μL reaction; Amersham/Pharmacia, Piscataway, NJ) according to suggested protocols (Promega, Madison, WI). Chloroplasts for import experiments were isolated from 10-d-old pea (Pisum sativum) seedlings (cv Little Marvel) and incubated with radiolabeled precursor as described (CITATION). The postimport thermolysin treatment and reisolation of intact chloroplasts were performed as described (CITATION). Proteins from import experiments equivalent to 10 μg of chlorophyll were separated by 15% SDS-PAGE, stained with Coomassie Brilliant Blue, fixed in 7% (v/v) acetic acid, 25% (v/v) methanol, dried, and the radiolabeled proteins visualized and quantified using a STORM PhosphorImager (Molecular Dynamics, Sunnyvale, CA). Total homogenate and intact chloroplasts were isolated from rosette leaves of Arabidopsis plants as described by CITATION. A stromal protein fraction was obtained from chloroplasts as described by CITATION. Gel filtration analysis was performed as described (CITATION). Protein samples were separated by SDS-PAGE, transferred to cellulose membrane, and probed with CpIscA-specific antibody as described by CITATION. Polyclonal antibodies against bacterially expressed CpIscA were raised in rabbits at a commercial facility (Pocono Rabbit Farm and Laboratory, Canadensis, PA). Two rabbits were immunized after collection of preimmune sera. Preimmune serum at dilutions between 1/500 and 1/2,000 in phosphate-buffered saline did not recognize either purified CpIscA or CpIscA in plant homogenates. Antiserum from both rabbits detected CpIscA, and the optimal antiserum dilutions in phosphate-buffered saline were found to be 1/2,000 for immunoblots. The antibody for CpNifS has been described (CITATION). Total RNA from different tissues (roots, leaves, stems, and flowers) was isolated by the TRIzol method (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). Ten micrograms of total RNA was electrophoresed on a 1% (w/v) agarose gel containing 4% (w/v) formaldehyde, transferred to a nylon membrane, and probed with a 33P-labeled AtCpIscA cDNA synthesized with a random primer labeling kit from Amersham. Prehybridization, hybridization, washing, and detection were done as described previously (CITATION). GFP fusions were expressed in Arabidopsis protoplast-derived cells from the 35S promoter of cauliflower mosaic virus in the GFP reporter plasmid 35Ω-SGFP(S65T). For protoplast preparation, Arabidopsis plants (ecotype Columbia) were grown on Murashige and Skoog medium (CITATION) for 3 weeks. Two grams fresh weight of leaf tissue was placed in 30 mL of a buffer containing 1% (w/v) cellulase Onozuka R-10, 0.25% Macerozyme R-10 (Karlan Research Products, Santa Rosa, CA), 8 mm CaCl2, 0.5 m mannitol, 5 mm MES, pH 5.5, vacuum infiltrated for 1 min, and incubated for 3 h at room temperature with gentle shaking. The clear digest was filtered through a 37- to 70-μm nylon mesh (Carolina Biological Supply, Burlington, NC), and the protoplasts were harvested by centrifugation for 5 min at 1,000 rpm and washed twice in 10 mL of cold W5 wash solution (154 mm NaCl, 125 mm CaCl2, 5 mm KCl, 5 mm Glc, 0.5 m mannitol, adjusted to pH 5.8 with KOH). The pellet was suspended in about 2 mL of mannitol/magnesium solution (15 mm MgCl2, 0.4 m mannitol, 0.1% MES, pH 5.6). Protoplasts were counted using a hemocytometer, and their concentration was adjusted to 3 × 106 cells mL−1 with mannitol/magnesium solution. Fifty micrograms of plasmid DNA, 100 μg of salmon sperm DNA, and 300 μL of polyethylene glycol (PEG) solution [40% PEG 6000/0.4 m mannitol/0.1 m Ca(NO3)2, adjusted to pH 8.0 with KOH] were added to 300 μL of the protoplast solution, very gently mixed, and left for 30 min at room temperature. The solution was very slowly diluted with 10 mL of W5 solution and then pelleted by centrifugation for 5 min at 1,000 rpm. Protoplasts were further resuspended in 5 mL of protoplast culture medium composed of Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 0.4 m Glc, 0.4 m mannitol, 1 mg/L 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, 0.15 mg/L kinetin, pH adjusted to 5.8 with KOH, and left at 23°C for 16 h under continuous light. Confocal images were obtained using an Olympus Fluoview 300 inverted confocal laser-scanning microscope (1X70) equipped with an argon ion laser system and a 1.4 numerical aperture 60× objective lens (Olympus America, Melville, NY). The fluorescence signals were detected at 530 nm for GFP and 660 nm for chlorophyll. Sections of 1-μm thickness were scanned, and images were captured by the Fluoview software as Tiff files. Fd was extracted from fresh spinach (Spinacia oleracea) that was obtained at a local health-food store, essentially as described (CITATION), and further purified as described (CITATION). The apo-Fd for reconstitution assays was prepared from holo-Fd by removal of the Fe-S cluster as described (CITATION). Apo-Fd (at 0.5 mg/mL) was stored in 100 mm Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, under nitrogen in small aliquots at −80°C. CpNifS was expressed and purified as described (CITATION). For overexpression of AtCpIscA, Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) codon+ (Stratagene) was transformed with pMIscA vector, and 2 L of LB medium containing 50 μg mL−1 ampicillin was inoculated with 1/100 volume of overnight culture. Cells were grown at 37°C to an OD600 of 0.5, and expression was induced with 0.4 mm isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside for 3 h at 37°C. The bacterial pellet was washed with 150 mm NaCl and resuspended in buffer A (25 mm potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7.5, 1 mm EDTA) and passed twice through a French press (8,000 psi) at 4°C to disrupt the cells. All further manipulations were at 4°C unless indicated otherwise. The lysate was centrifuged for 20 min at 12,500g, and the cleared supernatant was loaded onto a cation-exchange SP Sepharose 1.6- × 20-cm column (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech, Piscataway, NJ) equilibrated in 25 mm potassium phosphate, pH 7.5, 1 mm EDTA at a flow rate of 5 mL min−1. The column was washed with three volumes of the same buffer and eluted with a 500-mL linear gradient of 0 to 0.5 m KCl in the same buffer, and 6-mL fractions were collected. Peak fractions were concentrated by adding ammonium sulfate to 70%, and the precipitated protein was collected by centrifugation for 20 min at 12,500g, dissolved in 5 mL of buffer A, and dialyzed overnight in 3 L of the same buffer. The dialyzed protein was filtered through a 0.2-μm filter and applied to a Sephacryl-S200 Hiprep 16/60 column (Amersham Bioscience, Piscataway, NJ) equilibrated in 25 mm potassium phosphate, pH 7.5, 100 mm KCl, 1 mm EDTA at room temperature and connected to a Summit HPLC system (Dionex, Sunnyvale, CA). The column was eluted, and fractions of 1 mL were collected. Elution was monitored by detection of the OD at 280 nm. The purified protein was concentrated as before and dissolved in the same buffer, without EDTA, dialyzed, aliquoted, and stored at −80°C with 15% (w/v) glycerol. Typical yields were 5 to 10 mg L−1 of culture. The N-terminal sequence was determined by Edmann degradation at the Colorado State University Macromolecular Resources facility. The role of IscA in Fe-S cluster assembly was assayed by incubating IscA (30 μg) with NifS (7.5 μg) for 30 min in reconstitution buffer containing 50 mm Tricine-NaOH, pH 7.5, 5 mm DTT (Roche Diagnostics, Palo Alto, CA), 1 mm l-Cys (Sigma, St. Louis), 1 mm ferrous ammonium sulfate, and 20 μm PLP. Apo-Fd (30 μg) was added and incubated for 20 min at 37°C. After incubation, the reaction mixture was centrifuged at 14,000g for 1 min and directly applied to a 1-mL RESOURCE Q anion-exchange column (Amersham) connected to a summit HPLC system with a UVD170 detector and controlled by Chromeleon software (Dionex). The sample loop size was 100 μL. The column had been equilibrated with 25 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5. The following KCl gradient was applied in this buffer at a flow rate of 1.5 mL min−1: 0 to 4.5 min, 0 m KCl; 4.5 to 5 min, 0 to 0.25 m KCl; 5 to 14 min, 0.25 to 0.55 m KCl; ramp up to 1 m KCl; 14.1 to 15.6 min, 1 m KCl; ramp down to 0 m KCl; and hold for 2 min to reequilibrate. Holo-Fd eluted at 10.8 min. Elution was monitored by absorbance at both 280 and 420 nm. Holo-Fd was quantified by signal integration at 420 nm, a characteristic absorption maximum for Fd. Spinach holo-Fd (30 μg in 150 μL) was used as a standard. The activity of the holo-Fd recovered from CpNifS/CpIscA reconstitution was assayed by examining NADP reduction (CITATION). The ΔA340 was 0.27 mg−1 Fd min−1, and this activity was light dependent. The absorption spectrum change was the same for both reconstituted Fd and spinach holo-Fd. Incorporation of the Fe-S cluster into CpIscA was achieved by incubating IscA (300 μg) with 75 μg of NifS in reconstitution buffer (reaction 3; Fig. 7). Separate incubations of CpIscA (300 μg) in gel filtration buffer (25 mm Tricine/KOH, pH 7.9, 50 mm KCl; reaction 1; Fig. 7), IscA (300 μg) in reconstitution buffer (reaction 2), and CpNifS (75 μg) in reconstitution buffer (reaction 4; Fig. 7) were used as controls. After incubation at 37°C for 30 min, the mixtures were centrifuged at 14,000g for 1 min and directly applied to a Superdex-200 gel filtration column (1 × 30 cm; Pharmacia) connected to a summit HPLC system with a UVD170 detector and controlled by Chromeleon software (Dionex). The column was equilibrated in 25 mm Tricine/KOH, pH 7.9, 50 mm KCl. The flow rate was 0.75 mL min−1, and fractions were collected every 0.5 min. A loop size of 500 μL was used. Elution was monitored by A280 and 420 nm. The void volume was determined with blue dextran. Standards used for calibration were IgY, bovine serum albumin, ovalbumin, chymotrypsinogen, and RNase. Apo-Fd (30 μg) was incubated with holo-IscA, which was collected from a gel filtration column (reaction 3), for 30 min at 37°C in gel filtration buffer with 5 mm DTT. The resulting holo-Fd was assayed by HPLC as described (CITATION). Gel filtration analysis of CpIscA in stromal fractions utilized the same column, buffer, and elution conditions as described above. UV-visible absorption spectra (250–750 nm) were recorded with a Beckman DU 530 spectrophotometer (Beckman Instruments, Fullerton, CA) in a 100-μL quartz cuvette containing 20 to 30 μg of IscA protein in assay buffer (25 mm Tricine/KOH, pH 7.9, 50 mm KCl) in 1.0-nm scan steps. Protein was assayed according to Bradford using bovine serum albumin as a standard (CITATION). For CpIscA, the protein assay by Bradford was calibrated by measuring the protein absorption at 280 nm in 6 m guanidine HCl and calculation of absolute amounts using the molar extinction coefficient predicted by the primary sequence (CITATION). Fe content of proteins was determined according to CITATION. Spinach holo-Fd was used as a control. Statistical analysis was performed with the JMP-IN software (SAS Institute, Cary, NC). Sequence data from this article have been deposited with the EMBL/GenBank data libraries under accession number AY971959.
