!~ABS~! The synthesis of noncellulosic polysaccharides and glycoproteins in the plant cell Golgi apparatus requires UDP-galactose as a substrate. We have cloned and characterized a nucleotide sugar transporter from Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. named AtUTr2. Expression in tobacco and Saccharomyces cerevisiae and subsequent biochemical characterization indicate that AtUTr2 transports UDP-galactose, but not UDP-glucose, UDP-N-acetyl glucosamine, UDP-xylose, UDP-glucuronic acid, GDP-fucose or GDP-mannose. Experiments expressing an AtUTr2-GFP fusion protein in onion epidermal cells suggest that AtUTr2 is located in the Golgi apparatus. Finally, northern analysis indicates that the AtUTr2 transcript was more abundant in roots and calli although it was also present in other Arabidopsis organs but at lower levels. Therefore, AtUTr2 is a nucleotide sugar transporter capable of transporting UDP-galactose that may play an important role in the synthesis of galactose-containing glycoconjugates in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! AtUTr2 (At4g23010) was identified by sequence similarity at the amino acidic level to AtUTr1, a NST from Arabidopsis (Norambuena et al. CITATION) and NSTs from other species. AtUTr2 is 27% identical to AtUTr1 and analysis of the AtUTr2 sequence with multiple transmembrane domain (TMD) predicting algorithms (see Materials and methods) predicts the presence of 7–10 membrane-spanning regions, a characteristic of other NSTs (Fig.1). Since all NSTs reported so far have their N- and C-termini facing the cytosol it is likely that AtUTr2 may possess eight or ten TMDs. Comparative analysis of several NSTs, which have been functionally characterized, demonstrates that it is difficult to predict their precise substrate specificity, especially for UDP-sugars, based upon overall sequence similarity. Figure 2 shows the relationship, in an unrooted phylogenetic tree, of functionally characterized NSTs and it can be seen that, in contrast to that observed for NSTs that transport GDP-mannose, NSTs that use the same UDP-sugars can be located in different branches of the tree (e.g., UDP-galactose). In addition, NSTs that have different substrate specificities, may be located in the same branch of the tree. This is the case of AtUTr2 that is in the same branch as the Kluveromyces lactis UDP-N-acetyl-glucosamine transporter, a S. cerevisiae UDP-galactose transporter (Hut1) and the Arabidopsis UDP-glucose/UDP-galactose transporter (AtUTr1) (Fig. 2). Therefore, based exclusively on sequence similarity, it is not possible to determine the substrate specificity of AtUTr2, although we predicted that UDP-, rather than GDP-sugars, are its most likely substrates. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  Since UDP-sugars may be used within all plant cells, we looked at the expression pattern of AtUTr2. Northern analysis showed that a single band of 1.5 kb was detected, which is consistent with the length of the predicted cDNA. The AtUTr2 transcript was more abundant in roots and calli, however, the transcript was also present in all organs analyzed, but to a lower level (Fig. 3). These results suggest that the expression of AtUTr2 is differentially regulated and also higher in cells that are continuously dividing. [[FIGURE]]  To determine if AtUTr2 encodes a functional NST and its substrate specificity, we transiently expressed a Myc-His epitope-tagged version of AtUTr2 in tobacco leaves. After subcellular fractionation, a protein was detected by anti-His antisera in Golgi-rich vesicles isolated from leaves infiltrated with AtUTr2-Myc-His, and not from the empty vector control (Fig. 4). The molecular mass of the protein detected was lower than the expected molecular mass predicted from the primary sequence plus the Myc-His epitope (45 kDa). We believe that the hydrophobicity of AtUTr2 is the reason for the aberrant mobility, a phenomenon also observed for other NSTs (Berninsone et al. CITATION; Norambuena et al. CITATION; Handford et al. CITATION). A panel of radioactive substrates was used to measure the uptake of NDP-sugars into the vesicles obtained from tobacco expressing AtUTr2-Myc-His. Uptake of UDP-galactose was ~12-fold higher in the vesicles obtained from tobacco expressing AtUTr2-Myc-His than in the control (Fig.5). In contrast, no statistically significant increase in nucleotide sugar uptake was observed in vesicles obtained from tobacco expressing AtUTr2-Myc-His when UDP-glucose, UDP-N-acetyl glucosamine, UDP-xylose, UDP-glucuronic acid, GDP-fucose or GDP-mannose were used as substrates. To confirm that AtUTr2 transport UDP-galactose, we expressed a Myc-His-tagged version of AtUTr2 (AtUTr2-Myc-His) in S. cerevisiae. Golgi enriched fractions were obtained from both yeast expressing AtUTr2-Myc-His (confirmed by western blot analysis using an anti-myc antibody, not shown) and yeast transformed with the empty vector. Transport of UDP-galactose was two-fold higher in the vesicles obtained from yeast expressing AtUTr2-Myc-His, than in the control (Fig.6). In contrast, no statistically significant increase in nucleotide sugar transport was observed in vesicles obtained from yeast expressing AtUTr2-Myc-His when UDP-glucose was used as substrate (Fig.6). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  The studies expressing transiently AtUTr2 in tobacco leaves suggested that AtUTr2 NST activity is functional in the Golgi apparatus. To obtain further evidence relating to the subcellular localization of AtUTr2 in planta, we constructed a chimera between AtUTr2 and the green fluorescent protein (GFP). This fusion construct was transformed into onion epidermal cells using biolistics. The pattern of fluorescence was observed using epifluorescence and confocal microscopy and compared to the pattern of GFP-HDEL (ER; Haseloff et al. CITATION) or GONST1-YFP (Golgi apparatus; Baldwin et al. CITATION). Epifluorescence analysis showed that the expression of AtUTr2-GFP produced a pattern of ~1 μm fluorescent dots along with fluorescent fibers that crossed the cell (Fig. 7a). These fluorescent dots moved throughout the cell (Fig. 8). The pattern observed for AtUTr2-GFP shows several features similar to those observed in both Golgi and ER markers (Fig. 7c, d). This was seen more clearly using confocal microscopy. Confocal images of onion epidermal cells expressing AtUTr2-GFP presented a distribution of dotted and reticulated patterns (Fig. 7e). To analyze whether the moving dots were due to the localization of AtUTr2-GFP at the Golgi apparatus, we treated the cells with brefeldin A, a drug that is known to change the localization of proteins at the Golgi to the ER (Nebenführ et al. CITATION). Figure 7b shows that this treatment changed the fluorescence pattern of the moving dots and only fluorescent fibers resembling the ER were observed. The size of the motile particles and the sensitivity to brefeldin A, suggest that the AtUTr2-GFP is located at the Golgi apparatus. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! UDP-[3H]galactose (12Ci/mmol), UDP-[3H]glucose (21 Ci/mmol), GDP-[3H]fucose (17.3 Ci/mmol), GDP-[3H]mannose (18.9 Ci/mmol), UDP-[3H]N-acetylglucosamine (39.7 Ci/mmol), UDP-[14C]glucuronic acid (313 mCi/mmol) and UDP-[14 C]xylose (264 mCi/mmol) were purchased from NEN-DuPont. AtUTr2 cDNA was amplified from the Arabidopsis cDNA library pFL61 (American Type Culture Collection) using Platinum Pfx polymerase (Gibco-BRL) and primers AtUTr2-BamHI-5′ (5′GTAA GGATCCATGAAGGAGGAACAAAC3′) containing a BamHI site (sequence underlined) and AtUTr2-NotI-3′ (5′CCCCGCGGCCGCACTCCAACCAATGACTTC3′) containing a NotI site (sequence underlined). Both primers were flanking the coding region and were designed from the genomic sequence. The PCR product was cloned into the Saccharomyces cerevisiae vector p426GPD-Myc-His (Norambuena et al. CITATION). To introduce AtUTr2 in the plant binary vector pBI121 (Clontech), we used the p426GPD-AtUTr2-Myc-His plasmid as template to amplify a Myc-His-tagged version of AtUTr2. As primers, we used AtUTr2-BamHI-5′(described above) and AtUTr2-Myc-His-SacI-3′ (5′GGCACAGTCGAGCTCGATCAGCGGGT TT3′) containing a SacI site (underlined sequence). The PCR product was cloned in pGEMT (Promega), excised using BamHI and SacI and cloned in pBI121. To generate a GFP version of AtUTr2, we amplified the gene from the cDNA library described above using the primers AtUTr2-BamHI-5′ and the primer AtUTr2-BglII-3′ (5′ATGGAGATCTCTCCAACCAATGACTTCCTTTC3′) containing a BglII site (sequence underlined). The amplified DNA fragment was cloned into the pGEMT vector and then excised using BamHI and BglII. This fragment was further cloned in the BamHI site of the CD3-326 vector, which was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. The AtUTr2-GFP clones that were properly orientated were selected using DNA restriction analysis. All clones were verified by sequencing. Total RNA was isolated from seedlings, shoots, cauline leaves, roots, flowers and callus using TRIzol (Gibco-BRL) following the manufacturer’s instructions. The ORF of AtUTr2 and 18S rRNA probes were labelled with 32P using a random priming oligolabelling kit (Amersham). Hybridization and all other procedures were carried out as described by Orellana et al. (CITATION). Tobacco leaves (Nicotiana tabacum, cultivar Xanthi NN) were used for Agrobacterium-mediated transformation (strain GV3101) with pBI121 and pBI121-AtUTr2-Myc-His by syringe infiltration using a modification of the method of Kato et al. (CITATION). Subcellular fractionation of transformed tobacco leaves was performed based on the procedure described previously by Ordenes et al. (CITATION). Five days after infiltration transformed leaves (20–25 g) were homogenized in 20–25 ml of a solution containing 0.5 M sucrose, 100 mM KH2PO4 pH 6.65, 5 mM MgCl2 and 1 mM DTT and fractionated using a discontinuous gradient of 1.3 M/1.1 M/0.7 M/0.25 M sucrose at 100,000 g for 90 min. All the sucrose solutions contained KH2PO4,MgCl2 and DTT in the same concentration as in the homogenization buffer. The ER and Golgi vesicle fractions were obtained from the 1.1 M/1.3 M and 0.7 M/1.1 M interfaces, respectively. The enrichment of the Golgi and ER fractions were assessed by using an antibody against the reversibly glycosylated protein (RGP) and the activity of NADH cytochrome c reductase insensitve to antimycin A respectively (data not shown). AtUTr2-Myc-His was detected using monoclonal anti-His antiserum (Santa Cruz Biotechnologies). Tobacco Golgi-enriched fractions (35–50 μg of protein) were incubated with the radiolabelled nucleotide sugar to be tested (1 μM, 0.1 μCi) in a medium containing 0.25 M sucrose, 10 mM Tris–HCl pH 7.5 and 1 mM MgCl2 (STM buffer) in a final volume of 0.1 ml. After 3 min at 25°C, reactions were stopped by adding 10 volumes of cold STM buffer and filtered through 0.45 μm nitrocellulose filters. Subsequently, the filters were washed with an additional 10 ml of cold STM buffer, dried, and the radioactivity determined by liquid scintillation counting. Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain RSY255 (MATa, ura3-52, leu2-211) was transformed with the URA plasmids p426GPD-Myc-His and p426GPD-AtUTr2-Myc-His using lithium acetate methods. Transformed S. cerevisiae were grown at 30°C in synthetic complete medium lacking uracil (SC-URA) and spheroplasts were prepared using Zymolyase100T as described by Berninsone et al. (CITATION). Spheroplasts were disrupted by repeated pipetting and then centrifuged successively at 450 g, 10,000 g and 100,000 g to obtain pellet fractions P1, P2 and P3, respectively. The last fraction, P3, was enriched in Golgi apparatus-derived vesicles (Goud et al. CITATION). Transport assays were performed as described by Berninsone et al. (CITATION). Yeast Golgi-enriched vesicles (1 mg of protein from fraction P3) were incubated at 30°C in the presence of 10 μM (0.5 μCi) UDP-[3H]galactose or UDP-[3H]glucose in a final volume of 1 ml. After 10 min, the vesicles were separated from the incubation medium by centrifugation at 100,000 g for 50 min. The pellet was washed and resuspended in 4% perchloric acid and the total acid-soluble radioactive nucleotide sugars (St) were determined. The amount of radioactivity inside the vesicles (Si), was calculated by subtracting the estimated amount of radioactive nucleotide sugar outside the vesicles (So) from the St as described by Perez and Hirschberg (CITATION). DNA was delivered into onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells using tungsten particle bombardment as described by Meisel and Lam (CITATION). 5–8 μg of DNA was bound to 150 μg tungsten particles according to the manufacture’s instructions. Microprojectiles were bombarded into onion epidermal cells at 150 psi under a vacuum of 30 mmHg. GFP-dependent fluorescence was analyzed 48 h after bombardment by using confocal and epifluorescence microscopes. For treatment with brefeldin A (BFA), the epidermal cells were incubated for 1 h with 180 μM BFA at room temperature. Protein sequences were aligned using ClustalX and a phylogenetic tree was created using TreeView. Hydrophobicity analysis was performed using Kyte–Doolittle. The number of putative transmembrane domains was estimated using the web-based algorithms TMHMM, SOSUI, TOPRED, HMMTOP, THUMBUP, PRODIV-TMHMM, TUPS.
