!~ABS~! Plants sense phosphate (Pi) deficiency and initiate signaling that controls adaptive responses necessary for Pi acquisition. Herein, evidence establishes that AtSIZ1 is a plant small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) E3 ligase and is a focal controller of Pi starvation-dependent responses. T-DNA insertional mutated alleles of AtSIZ1 (At5g60410) cause Arabidopsis to exhibit exaggerated prototypical Pi starvation responses, including cessation of primary root growth, extensive lateral root and root hair development, increase in root/shoot mass ratio, and greater anthocyanin accumulation, even though intracellular Pi levels in siz1 plants were similar to wild type. AtSIZ1 has SUMO E3 ligase activity in vitro, and immunoblot analysis revealed that the protein sumoylation profile is impaired in siz1 plants. AtSIZ1-GFP was localized to nuclear foci. Steadystate transcript abundances of Pi starvation-responsive genes AtPT2, AtPS2, and AtPS3 were moderate but clearly greater in siz1 seedlings than in wild type, where Pi is sufficient. Pi starvation induced the expression of these genes to the same extent in siz1 and wild-type seedlings. However, two other Pi starvation-responsive genes, AtIPS1 and AtRNS1, are induced more slowly in siz1 seedlings by Pi limitation. PHR1, a MYB transcriptional activator of AtIPS1 and AtRNS1, is an AtSIZ1 sumoylation target. These results indicate that AtSIZ1 is a SUMO E3 ligase and that sumoylation is a control mechanism that acts both negatively and positively on different Pi deficiency responses.
!~RES~!  T-DNA Insertional Mutations in AtSIZ1 Suppress the Salt-Sensitive Phenotype of sos3-1 and Cause Hyperresponsiveness to Pi Limitation. T2 lines from a T-DNA insertion population (pSKI015) in the Arabidopsis Col-0 gl1 sos3-1 background were screened to identify second-site mutations that enhance NaCl tolerance (CITATION). The siz1-1 mutation suppressed NaCl sensitivity of sos3-1 seedlings, but to a lesser extent than did hkt1 alleles (data not shown and ref. CITATION). Decreasing the macronutrient concentration in the MS salt formulation to 1/20× resulted in a substantial reduction in primary root growth of sos3-1 siz1-1 seedlings (data not shown). Normal root growth was restored by inclusion in the medium of 1.25 mM PO4 3–, either as KH2PO4 or NaH2PO4, but not by inclusion of any other macronutrient at the concentration in the full-strength MS salt formulation, e.g., 20 mM KCl, 19 mM KNO3, 3 mM CaCl2, or 1.6 mM MgSO4 (data not shown).  sos3-1 siz1-1 seedlings exhibited substantially more pronounced prototypical Pi starvation root architecture responses than sos3-1 or wild-type seedlings (FIG-REF). On Pi-limited medium, sos3-1 siz1-1 seedlings exhibited an inhibition of primary root growth (FIG-REF; see also Fig. 6A, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site), an increase in lateral root development and length (Figs. FIG-REF and 6 B–D), an increase in root hair number and length (FIG-REF), and higher root/shoot fresh weight ratio (Table 1, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site) than wild type. sos3-1 siz1-1 plants grown on Pi-deficient medium for 25 days also accumulated more anthocyanin in leaves than did the wild type, and many of the siz1 leaves were necrotic (data not shown). sos3-1 siz1-1 plants grown in the greenhouse or growth chamber always exhibited reduced shoot and root biomass relative to the wild type that was not evident when these plants were grown in vitro. Despite this phenomenon, the relative increase in root/shoot biomass was greater for sos3-1 siz1-1 plants than the wild type after transfer to Pi-deficient medium in hydroponic solution (Table 2, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). sos3-1 siz1-1 plants grown hydroponically began anthocyanin accumulation sooner than the wild type after transfer to Pi-deficient medium (data not shown). [[FIGURE]]  sos3-1 siz1-1 seedlings and plants grown in Pi-sufficient medium (FIG-REF) and hydroponic solution (FIG-REF), respectively, accumulated more intracellular Pi (Piint) in shoots than did the wild type or sos3-1, but Piint in roots of these plants was similar. Symptoms of Pi toxicity were not detected in shoots of sos3-1 siz1-1 seedlings, as is the case in shoots of Pi hyperaccumulating pho2 (CITATION) that was included as a control in this experiment (FIG-REF). Piint levels in sos3-1 siz1-1, sos3-1, and wild-type seedlings and plants were similar when grown in Pi-deficient medium or solution (FIG-REF) even though sos3-1 siz1-1 seedlings exhibited responses to Pi limitation earlier and to a greater extent than the wild type (Figs. FIG-REF and 6). [[FIGURE]]  AtSIZ1 Encodes a Putative SUMO E3 Ligase. Thermal asymmetric interlaced PCR analysis of sos3-1 siz1-1 plants identified a T-DNA insertion in the 13th exon of At5g60410 (GenBank accession no. NM_125434) at +986 bp from the translation initiation codon as determined by analysis of the full-length cDNA sequence (R22197; FIG-REF). At5g60410 is annotated as AtSIZ1, and this mutant allele is designated as siz1-1. Using the GenBank database, the AtSIZ1 product is predicted to be a peptide of 833 aa, which is an apparent ortholog of Saccharomyces cervisiae Siz1 and Siz2 and human protein inhibitor of activated signal transducer and activator of transcription (PIAS) proteins (FIG-REF; see also Fig. 7, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site) (CITATION). AtSIZ1 contains five predicted domains conserved in Siz/PIAS SUMO E3 ligases. These domains include a SAP domain that is implicated in chromatin organization, a Siz/PIAS-RING domain that is necessary for SUMO E3 ligase activity, a “PINIT” motif for nuclear retention (CITATION), a “SXS” motif that promotes binding to SUMO (CITATION), and a putative nuclear localization sequence (FIG-REF). AtSIZ1 also has a plant homeodomain-finger (PHD) domain that is not present in Siz/PIAS proteins. The PHD domain is associated with chromatin remodeling complexes (CITATION) or functions as an ubiquitin E3 ligase (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] F1 and F2 analyses of progeny derived from a backcross with sos3-1 (sos3-1 × sos3-1 siz1-1) indicated that siz1-1 is a monogenic recessive mutation [F2 analysis, n = 407 for, χ2 = 1.25, P = 0.26 for a 3:1 (normal:short primary root on Pi-deficient medium) segregation ratio]. Seedlings harboring additional mutations in AtSIZ1, siz1-2 (SA LK_065397), and siz1-3 (SALK_034008) (FIG-REF) exhibited similar root architecture responses to Pi deficiency as did sos3-1 siz1-1 seedlings, and these responses were suppressed by the addition of either KH2PO4 or NaH2PO4 (Figs. FIG-REF and 6). Furthermore, siz1-2 and siz1-3 seedlings and plants accumulated comparable Piint and developed a higher root/shoot mass ratio in response to Pi deprivation, as did sos3-1 siz1-1 (FIG-REF and Tables 1 and 2). These data establish that the responses to Pi limitation exhibited by sos3-1 siz1-1 seedlings are due to the siz1-1 mutation. Primary root growth analysis on Pi-deficient medium of F1 progeny from the cross between siz1-2 and siz1-3 indicated that the mutations are allelic (data not shown). AtSIZ1 mRNA was more abundant in roots than in shoots of wild-type and sos3-1 seedlings (FIG-REF) but was not detected in sos3-1 siz1-1 seedlings (FIG-REF) or siz1-2 or siz1-3 seedlings (data not shown).  In Vitro and in Vivo Data Indicate That AtSIZ1 Functions as a SUMO E3 Ligase. An immunoblot of total protein by using anti-AtSUMO1 (CITATION) indicated no difference in accumulation of SUMO or SUMO conjugation products in siz1-2 and wild-type seedlings that are grown at 24°C (FIG-REF). In contrast, esd4 seedlings accumulate numerous sumoylated products, whereas the amounts of free SUMO peptides are depleted (data not shown and ref. CITATION). Heat shock increased SUMO conjugation in wild-type plants (CITATION), but the extent of heat shock-induced sumoylation was substantially less in siz1-2 plants (FIG-REF). Together these results provide evidence that AtSIZ1 is involved in the sumoylation of Arabidopsis proteins. [[FIGURE]] GST-AtSIZ1 could substitute for T7-ScSiz2-His to stimulate sumoylation in an in vitro assay (CITATION) that included S. cerevisiae E1 (GST-ScAos1 + GST-ScUba2), E2 (ScUbc9), SUMO substrate (T7-ScCdc3-His), and SUMO (His-ScSmt3) and used anti-ScSmt3 to detect sumoylated products (FIG-REF Upper). GST-AtSIZ1 (112 kDa) or ScSiz2 (82 kDa) was detected (FIG-REF) on the anti-ScSmt3 immunoblot because each protein is sumoylated. Immunoblot analysis by using anti-T7 antibody (detecting T7-ScCdc3-His) indicated that AtSIZ1 mediates ScSmt3 cojugation to ScCdc3, as does ScSiz2 (FIG-REF Lower). ScCdc3 contains seven sumoylation sites, and these different products are evident on the blot (FIG-REF Lower and ref. CITATION). Together, the immunoblot analysis of the in vivo sumoylation products and the in vitro assay results establish that AtSIZ1 functions as a SUMO E3 ligase in Arabidopsis.  AtSIZ1-GFP was detected specifically in the same compartment as the red fluorescent protein control (ref. CITATION and Fig. 8A, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site), indicating that AtSIZ1 is localized to the nucleus. Higher magnification revealed that AtSIZ1 localizes predominantly to punctuate structures in the nucleus (Fig. 8B). Expression of AtSIZ1-GFP suppressed both the hyperresponses of siz1-2 seedlings to Pi starvation and the reduced shoot and root biomass phenotypes of siz1-2 plants (data not shown). These results indicate that AtSIZ1-GFP is functional and that AtSIZ1 compartmentalizes to nuclear speckles, as do PIAS proteins (CITATION).  siz1 Mutations Cause an Alteration in Pi Starvation-Dependent Signaling. AtPT2 (Pht1;4), AtPS2 (acid phosphatase; ref. CITATION), and AtPS3 (glycerol-3-phosphate permease, Raghothama, unpublished data), but not AtIPS1 or AtRNS1, transcript abundances were greater in siz1 than in wild-type seedlings when both were grown in Pi-sufficient medium (FIG-REF). However, Pi starvation induced the expression of AtPT2, AtPS2, and AtPS3 to a comparable level in both the wild-type and siz1 seedlings after 48 h in Pi-deficient medium (FIG-REF). Pi starvation induction of AtIPS1 and AtRNS1 transcript abundances occurred more slowly in siz1 than in wild-type seedlings (FIG-REF) but eventually increased to levels similar to the wild type after an extended period of Pi limitation (i.e., 48 h or 72 h; data not shown). Together, these results indicate that the function of AtSIZ1 in Pi starvation signaling is different for these two specific subsets of target genes. AtPT2, AtPS2, and AtPS3 are negatively regulated by AtSIZ1 in Pi-sufficient conditions, and AtIPS1 and AtRNS1 are positively regulated by AtSIZ1 during the initial stages of induction by Pi limitation (for primer sequences for these genes, see Table 3, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). [[FIGURE]]  AtIPS1 and AtRNS1 are members of the PHR1 regulon (CITATION). The MYB transcription factor PHR1, which binds to a P1BS element in the promoter of AtIPS1 and is necessary for transcription of AtIPS1 and AtRNS1 (CITATION), contains two predicted sumoylation sites. AtSIZ1 facilitated the sumoylation of PHR1 (FIG-REF). Mutations to residues in the predicted sumoylation sites, K261R and K372R, in PHR1 prevented sumoylation of PHR1 (FIG-REF). These results further indicate that sumoylation of PHR1 positively controls the expression of AtIPS1 and AtRNS1.
!~MM~!  Plant Materials and Growth Conditions. The Arabidopsis T-DNA population in the Col-0 gl1 sos3-1 background and identification of mutations that suppress sos3-1 Na+ hypersensitivity were described in ref. CITATION. Unless indicated otherwise, 3-day-old seedlings were transferred to basal medium containing 1× Murashige and Skoog (MS) micronutrients, 1/5× or 1/20× macronutrients without KH2PO4, 3% sucrose, 2.5 mM Mes, B5 vitamins, 1.2% agar, and without or with various amounts of KH2PO4 or NaH2PO4. The Pi content of the basal medium without a Pi supplement was 10.6 ± 0.75 μM. Three-week-old plants were removed from Metro-mix (Scotts, Marysville, OH), roots were carefully washed with water, and plants were transferred to modified Hoagland's solution (without aeration) containing 1 mM KH2PO4 (CITATION). After 4 days of adaptation to solution culture, plants were transferred to a modified Hoagland's solution with 0.01 or 1 mM KH2PO4 (CITATION).  Molecular Genetic Analysis of siz1 T-DNA Insertion Alleles. The genomic sequence flanking the T-DNA left border in sos3-1 siz1-1 plants (the Col-0 gl1 background) was determined by thermal asymmetric interlaced PCR analysis as described in ref. CITATION. siz1-2 and siz1-3 alleles in the Col-0 background were identified in the Salk Institute Genome Analysis Laboratory database, and T3 seeds were provided by the Salk Institute laboratory through the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center at Ohio State University.  Analysis of Sumoylation Profiles. Total protein from seedlings incubated at 24°C or at 40°C for 30 min were extracted as described in ref. CITATION and separated by SDS/PAGE. The gel blot was probed with the AtSUMO1 antibody (kindly provided by G. Coupland, Max Planck Institute, Cologne, Germany) and detected by using ECL plus (Amersham Pharmacia).  Purification of Proteins for the in Vitro SUMO Conjugation Assay. To construct pGST-SIZ1, a cDNA fragment of AtSIZ1 ORF was inserted in-frame into the pGEX-2TK vector (Amersham Pharmacia). To construct PHR1-expressing plasmids, a cDNA fragment encoding wild-type PHR1 (pT7-PHR1) or a mutated PHR1 [AA782A to AGA and AA1115A to AGA by site-directed mutagenesis pT7-PHR1(2KR); ref. CITATION] was inserted into pET21a vector (Novagen). The wild-type protein is designated as T7-PHR1, and the variant is designated as T7-PHR1(2KR), harboring a mutation (K261R and K372R) in each of the two predicted sumoylation motifs in PHR1. Recombinant protein synthesis from pGST-SIZ1, pT7-PHR1, pT7-PHR1(2KR), or other expression vectors (kindly provided by Y. Kikuchi, Tokyo University, Tokyo) and the in vitro sumoylation assay were performed as described in ref. CITATION.  Supporting Information. For additional methods, see Supporting Methods, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site.
