!~ABS~! TONSOKU(TSK)/MGOUN3/BRUSHY1 from Arabidopsis thaliana, which plays an important role in the maintenance of meristem organization, contains an LGN repeat motif similar to that found in animal proteins involved in asymmetric cell division. One protein that interacts with the LGN motif of TSK in a yeast two-hybrid screen, TSK-associating protein 1 (TSA1), contains a 10-fold repeat of a unique 41 amino acid sequence. The repeat sequence, with a glutamic acid–phenylalanine–glutamic acid (EFE) conserved core sequence, is enriched with acidic amino acids. TSA1 also contains an N-terminal putative signal peptide and it interacts with the LGN motif of TSK through a C-terminal region separated from the EFE repeats by a putative membrane-spanning region. The recombinant protein consisting of EFE repeats was rich in α-helical structure and possessed Ca2+-binding activity. Unlike nuclear localization of TSK, the TSA1 fused with green fluorescent protein (GFP) expressed in tobacco BY-2 cells was localized in small cytoplasmic vesicles during interphase. However, cellular localization of both TSA1–GFP and GFP–TSK changed dynamically during mitosis. In particular, both GFP–TSK and TSA1–GFP were concentrated in limited areas that are close to the ends of spindle microtubules ahead of separating chromatids. These results are discussed in terms of the possible involvement of TSK and TSA1 in mitosis.
!~RES~! Yeast two-hybrid screening was used to identify proteins able to interact with the LGN repeats of TSK. The coding region of TSK corresponding to exons 2–5, which covers three of four LGN repeats (Suzuki et al. 2004), was fused with the coding sequence of LexA and used as a bait (pBTE25). The pBTMSBEN without TSK cDNA served as a negative control. The yeast strain L40 (trp–, leu–, his–), with lacZ and HIS3 reporter genes under the control of promoter containing the LexA-binding sequence, was used as a host in our screening. The L40 strain was transformed with pBTE25, then further transformed with the Arabidopsis cDNA library in the pVP16S1 vector, in which the coding sequence of cDNA was fused to the activation domain of herpes simplex virus VP16 protein. Approximately 14 million transformants were plated on selection plates containing 1 mM 3-aminotriazole, and colonies that grew on selection plates were assayed for β-galactosidase activity. Plasmid DNA isolated from a positive clone was used to retransform yeast host cells with pBTMSBEN or pBTE25; clones that allowed the growth of cells with pBTE25, but not cells with pBTMSBEN, on selective plates, were chosen for further analysis. Among the positive clones, >30 clones contained partial cDNA derived from the same mRNA with varying lengths. The growth of yeast cells harboring one of these positive clones, pTSA1, on selective plates is shown in Fig. 1A. The pTSA1 enabled yeast host cells to grow on selective plates only with pBTE25. The transcript covered by pTSA1 and other clones was derived from the predicted Arabidopsis gene, At1g52410, which was named TSA1 (TSK-associating protein 1). Other cDNA clones contained the 3′-terminal portion of TSA1 mRNA in common, with varying lengths toward the 5′-terminus. The public database contained one full-length cDNA (accession No. AY048247) for TSA1, which was 2536 bp in length and coded for a protein with 755 amino acid residues. Comparison of the sequences of the full-length cDNA and genomic DNA indicated that the TSA1 gene was split into 26 exons interrupted by 25 introns (Fig. 1B). Another predicted cDNA for one splicing variant of TSA1 mRNA (accession No. NM_179466) was also present in the database. In this cDNA, selection of an alternative splice acceptor site of the 13th intron resulted in a 12 nucleotide extension of the 14th exon compared with AY048247. The occurrence of alternative splicing of the TSA1 transcript was verified by sequencing the reverse transcription (RT)–PCR products, with the longer transcripts being more abundant (data not shown). The amino acid sequence of TSA1 predicted from cDNA begins with the N-terminal hydrophobic signal peptide-like sequence, followed by 10 times repeats of similar sequences occupying the N-terminal half of the molecule (Fig. 1B). Most of the repeated sequences are 36–41 amino acids long, except for the C-terminal unit consisting of 30 amino acids (Fig. 1C). Each repeat sequence is encoded by two exons, and the intron insertion sites are highly conserved (indicated by the vertical line in Fig. 1C). The repeat sequence is enriched with acidic amino acids and the predicted pI of TSA1 is 4.30. The repeat sequence was named EFE repeat after the highly conserved core amino acid sequence of the repeats. Several computer programs indicated that the repeat sequence, in particular the sequence around the EFE core motif, exists as an α-helix. The consensus sequence of EFE repeats contained hydrophobic amino acids with intervals of 3–4 amino acids, which suggests the participation of EFE repeats in the formation of a coiled-coil structure (Fig. 1C). A database search for a homolog of TSA1 indicated the presence of another Arabidopsis gene (At3g15950) coding for a protein highly similar to TSA1. The TSA1-like protein encoded by this gene consisted of 722 amino acids and contained 10 EFE repeats similar to TSA1 (Fig. 1D). The intron–exon organization of the TSA1-like gene was also similar to that of TSA1 (data not shown), and TSA1 (At1g52410) and TSA1-like (At3g15950) were located on a large duplicated segment between chromosomes 1 and 3 (Arabidopsis Genome Initiative 2000). In addition to these two Arabidopsis proteins, only one expressed sequence tag (EST) sequence of Chinese cabbage coded for a protein containing at least three EFE repeats. These results suggest that the EFE repeat is conserved at least in Brassicaceae and can be considered to be a novel repeat sequence unique to plants. The TSK gene is expressed predominantly in the meristems (Suzuki et al. 2004). Expression of TSA1 and TSA1-like genes in various organs of Arabidopsis was examined and compared with that of TSK by quantitative real-time RT–PCR (Fig. 2). The expression levels of TSA1, TSA1-like and TSK were normalized to the level of actin mRNA. The expression of the TSK gene was most abundant in the flower, and slightly less abundant in the shoot apex. Similar to TSK, TSA1 was preferentially expressed in the flower and shoot apex. The expression of TSA1-like was different from that of TSK and TSA1 and was greatest in the roots. These results suggest that TSA1 and TSK are expressed under similar developmental control systems, while expression of TSA1 and TSA1-like is differentially controlled. To confirm the interaction between TSK and TSA1 in vitro, the LGN repeat region of TSK encoded by exons 2–5 used in two-hybrid screening was expressed in Escerichia coli as a fusion with the T7 tag at the N-terminus and with the His tag at the C-terminus (TSKE25). The C-terminal region of TSA1 encoded by exon 26 was similarly expressed in E. coli as a fusion with the His tag at the C-terminus (TSA1E26). TSKE25 and TSA1E26 proteins, partially purified from cell lysates with an Ni-NTA resin column, were separated by SDS–PAGE, blotted onto the membrane and detected with anti-His tag antibody. The TSA1E26 appeared as a single band of 27 kDa, as expected from the sequence (Fig. 3, lane 4). In contrast, the preparation of TSKE25 showed a major band of 42 kDa, which is similar to the size expected from the sequence, and an additional band of 30 kDa, which could be a degradation product (Fig. 3, lane 5). In the co-precipitation assay, TSKE25 and TSA1E26 were mixed and incubated, followed by immunoprecipitation of TSKE25 with anti-T7 tag antibody conjugated to agarose. The precipitated fraction contained, in addition to TSKE25, the 27 kDa band of TSA1E26 (Fig. 3, lane 1). TSA1E26 was not detected in the immunoprecipitated fraction when either TSKE25 or TSA1E26 was omitted from the reaction mixture. These results indicate that the C-terminal region of TSA1 interacts with the LGN repeat region of TSK in vitro. To define further the domains of TSK and TSA1 that participate in the interaction, a yeast two-hybrid assay was performed. First, various deletions from the N-terminal region of TSK were created and fused with the LexA DNA-binding domain (BD), followed by an examination of their ability to interact with the C-terminal region of TSA1 fused with the VP16 transcription activation domain (AD) by the growth of yeast cells on selective medium (Fig. 4A). The expression of various deletion derivatives of the TSKE25-BD fusion protein was verified by Western blotting of the yeast cell lysate with anti-LexA antibody (Fig. 4B). TSK contained four LGN repeats, and three of the four LGN repeats are covered in TSKE25-BD. Deletion of the region outside of the LGN repeats did not abolish interaction with TSA1E26-AD (TSKE25N, TSKE25N2). In contrast, TSK with partial deletions of the LGN repeats did not bind to TSA1. These results indicate that the LGN repeats of the TSK protein are necessary and sufficient to interact with TSA1. The C-terminal region of TSA1 was cloned into the pBTMSBEN vector to be expressed as a fusion with BD in yeast (TSA1E26-BD), and the region of TSK used in the yeast two-hybrid screening was cloned into the pVP16S1 vector to be expressed as a fusion with AD (TSKE25-AD). Various deletions from TSA1E26-BD were examined for the ability to interact with TSKE25-AD (Fig. 4C). Western blotting of the yeast cell lysate with anti-LexA antibody verified expression of these deletion derivatives of TSA1E26-BD fusion protein in yeast cells. In addition to TSAE26, two deletion derivatives (TSA1E26C and TSA1E26C2) interacted with TSKE25-AD. All the other deletion derivatives of TSA1E26-BD failed to interact with TSKE25-AD. These results indicate that the C-terminal 92 amino acid sequence from 616 to 707 of TSA1 is necessary and sufficient to interact with the LGN repeats of TSK. The most characteristic feature of TSA1 is the EFE motif repeated 10 times consecutively (Fig. 1C). The EFE repeat sequence is highly enriched with charged amino acids; 29 and 16% of amino acid residues in the repeat region (from Ser to Glu; Fig. 1C) are acidic and basic amino acids, respectively. This high ratio of acidic amino acids in the EFE repeats and the localization of TSA1 to small cytoplasmic vesicles as described below suggested that the EFE repeats may bind cations, in particular Ca2+. The portion of TSA1 corresponding to the sequence covered by exons 2–25 (TSA1E225; Fig. 1B) that encompassed all 10 EFE repeats was fused with a T7 tag at its N-terminus and a His tag at its C-terminus, and expressed in E. coli. TSA1E225 was purified from the cell lysate with Ni-NTA resin and anti-T7 ag antibody. Upon SDS–PAGE and staining with Coomassie brilliant blue, TSA1E225 migrated as a single band with an apparent size of 76 kDa, which is larger than the molecular mass of 58 kDa predicted from the sequence (Fig. 5A, lane 2). The band of TSA1E225 was clearly stained blue by Stains-all (lane 4), which specifically stains calcium-binding protein blue (Campbell et al. 1983). Bovine serum albumin (BSA), used as a negative control (lanes 1 and 3), was not stained by Stains-all. The calcium-binding activity of TSA1 was directly examined by 45Ca2+ overlay assay. TSA1E225 was blotted on the membrane and incubated with a solution containing 45Ca2+. After washing with 50% ethanol, 45Ca2+ bound to the membrane was detected by autoradiography (Fig. 5B). TSA1E225 gave a clear positive signal of 45Ca2+. Calmodulin blotted on the membrane also showed a strong positive signal, while BSA did not show significant binding. Binding of 45Ca2+ to TSA1E225 was abolished by the addition of 5 mM Ca2+ in the reaction mixture, while the addition of 5 mM Mg2+, Mn2+, Zn2+, Na+ and K+ did not abolish the binding (data not shown). These results indicate that the EFE repeat is a novel motif that specifically binds calcium. The secondary structure prediction program (EMBOSS garnier) suggested that a large part of the EFE repeat sequence assumes an α-helix with a spacer of variable length (Fig. 1C). The circular dichroism (CD) spectrum of purified TSA1E225 showed a peak at 205 nm with a shoulder near 225 nm (Fig. 5C), supporting that the EFE repeat region of TSA1 is rich in α-helical structure. Under the conditions employed, the CD spectrum of TSA1E225 did not change significantly in the presence or absence of calcium (data not shown). To examine whether TSA1 forms a multimer, which was anticipated from the regularly spaced hydrophobic amino acids in the α-helix of the EFE repeat (Fig. 1C, D), the N-terminally truncated TSA1 corresponding to exons 2–26 was expressed in E. coli as a fusion protein with a T7 tag at its N-terminus and a His tag at its C-terminus (TSAE226). TSAE226 purified from the cell lysate was applied to a Superose 6 gel filtration column. Although the molecular mass of TSA1E226 estimated from the sequence was 84 kDa, it migrated on SDS–PAGE as a band of 105 kDa (Fig. 5D), probably due to a high proportion of acidic amino acids. Upon column chromatography, the TSA1E226 band eluted in fractions 12 and 13. From elution profiles of size marker proteins, the molecular mass of the eluted protein was estimated to be 570 kDa, suggesting that TSA1E226 forms a hexamer or heptamer. Under these conditions, calcium did not affect the multimerization of TSA1E226 (data not shown). Similar results were obtained from the gel filtration assay using TSA1E225 (data not shown), indicating that multimerization was mediated by the EFE repeats. In plant cells, the major calcium storage organelles are the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and vacuole. Since the TSA1 protein was expected to have a signal peptide and bind calcium, the cellular localization of TSA1 was examined by fusion with GFP. The full-length cDNA of TSA1 was cloned into pGWB5 binary vector to express TSA1 fused with GFP at its C-terminus under the 35S promoter. Arabidopsis plant and tobacco cell culture line BY-2 was transformed by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Transformed Arabidopsis plant and tobacco BY-2 cells expressing TSA1–GFP were selected and observed under confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLMS). In both cells, the fluorescence of TSA1–GFP appeared as many spots in the cytoplasm, suggesting that TSA1 is associated with cytoplasmic vesicles, possibly in the ER or the Golgi, but is not localized in vacuoles, nucleus or the plasma membrane (Fig. 6B, C). The fluorescence of GFP alone was observed in the cytoplasm and nucleus (Fig. 6A). Since the TSK protein was localized to the nucleus (Suzuki et al. 2004), the association of TSA1 with cytoplasmic vesicles is not readily consistent with an interaction between TSK and TSA1. To investigate this apparent contradiction, the cellular localization of TSK and TSA1 during cell division cycle was examined in tobacco BY-2 cells. Cell division of tobacco BY-2 cells expressing TSA1–GFP was synchronized by treatment with aphidicolin followed by propyzamide (Nagata and Kumagai 1999). Cells at each stage of the cell cycle were fixed, stained with anti-α-tubulin antibody and observed under CLSM. In cells arrested in interphase by propyzamide (Fig. 7A), many spots of fluorescence of TSA1–GFP were observed in the cytoplasm around the nuclear envelope, along the cytoplasmic strand and near the cell periphery. At this stage, microtubules were also observed around the nuclear envelope, and they extended from the nucleus to the cell cortex. In the prophase cells (Fig. 7B), when the nuclear envelope disappears and chromatins appear, both TSA1–GFP and microtubules were assembled around the periphery of chromatids. When the cell cycle proceeds to the metaphase (Fig. 7C), TSA1–GFP was largely concentrated at external ends of spindle microtubules where spindle poles are supposed to be formed. The other ends of spindle microtubules surrounded chromatins. In the anaphase cells (Fig. 7D), TSA1–GFP appeared as clear disc-like structures ahead of separated chromatids, while microtubules appeared between two chromatids where phragmoplast are to be formed. During the telophase (Fig. 7E), fluorescence of TSA1–GFP resumed its spotty appearance around the nuclear envelope. Cell division of tobacco BY-2 cells expressing GFP–TSK was also synchronized with aphidicolin and propyzamide, stained with propidium iodide for the cell wall and DNA, and observed under CLSM. In interphase cells, fluorescence of GFP–TSK appeared uniformly in the nucleoplasm (data not shown; Suzuki et al. 2004). However, cellular localization of GFP–TSK also changed dynamically during the cell division cycle. In metaphase cells, most of the fluorescence of GFP–TSK appeared as spots (data not shown) and these spots gathered ahead of the separated chromatids in anaphase cells (Fig. 7G). Similar to TAS1–GFP, fluorescence of GFP–TSK was not detected between the separated chromatids. This appearance of fluorescence of GFP–TSK was quite different from that of free GFP in anaphase cells (Fig. 7F). The spotty appearance of GFP–TSK dissappered when cells entered telophase (data not shown). It was noteworthy that both TSA1–GFP and GFP–TSK showed dynamic relocalization during the cell cycle and a similar localization ahead of the separation of chromatids during anaphase.
!~MM~! Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain L40, pBTMSBEN used as bait vector and pVP16S1 used as prey vector were generously donated by Dr. M. Ishikawa and Dr. Y. Machida of the Graduate School of Science, Nagoya University, Japan. The Arabidopsis cDNA library cloned into pVP16S1 was a gift from Dr. Y. Yoshioka of the Graduate School of Science, Nagoya University, Japan. L40 cells were transformed with pBTE25 to produce the fusion protein of LexA and partial protein of TSK encoded in exons 2–5, followed by transformation of L40 carrying pBTE25 with the cDNA library. Approximately 14 million transformants were screened on selection plates without tryptophan, leucine and histidine supplemented with 1 mM 3-aminotriazole for 1 week at 22°C. Positive colonies were replicated on filter paper, and frozen in liquid nitrogen. After thawing, the filter was incubated with 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-galactoside (X-gal; 0.33 mg ml–1) in 100 mM sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.0) containing 10 mM potassium chloride, 1 mM magnesium sulfate and 35 mM β-mercaptoethanol. The derivatives of pVP16S1 plasmids were recovered from β-galactosidase-positive colonies and the cDNA inserts were sequenced. Total RNA was extracted from each organ of Arabidopsis with TRIZOL reagent (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA) and used as a template for reverse transcription with oligo(dT) primer. Real-time PCR was performed with iQ SYBR Green Supermix and iCycler (BIO-RAD, Hercules, CA, USA). Target sequences were cloned into pET24b (Novagen, Darmstadt, Germany) to produce proteins tagged with His at the C-terminus. Some of them were tagged further with the T7 epitope at the N-terminus. Recombinant fusion proteins were produced in E. coli BL21 (DE3) pLysS cells. The extracted proteins were affinity purified on Ni-NTA Superflow (Qiagen, Tokyo, Japan) and some of them were purified further on T7 tag antibody agarose as described in the manufacturer’s instructions (Novagen, Darmstadt, Germany). Eluates were dialyzed against phosphate-buffered saline and concentrated with an Ultrafree-4 centrifugal filter unit (Nihon Millipore, Tokyo, Japan). The assay to detect interactions between TSKE25 and TSA1E26 in vitro was performed as described previously (Kitakura et al. 2002). SDS–PAGE with a 10 or 12% (w/v) polyacrylamide gel was conducted by the method of Laemmli (1970). Coomassie brilliant blue staining was performed with Blue Stain Reagent (Pierce, Rockford, IL, USA) as described in the manufacturer’s instructions. To detect the Ca2+-binding ability of TSA1E225, the polyacrylamide gel was stained with Stains-all (Sigma Aldrich, Tokyo, Japan) as described (Yuasa and Maeshima 2000). The Ca2+ overlay assay was also conducted as described (Yuasa and Maeshima 2000). The CD spectrum of TSAE225 was measured using a JASCO J-720WI spectropolarimeter (Nihonbunko, Tokyo, Japan). Gel filtration chromatography was performed on a Superose 6 column with the ÄKTA Explorer system (Amersham Biosciences, Tokyo, Japan). The construction of plasmids and transformation of tobacco BY-2 cells were performed as described previously (Suzuki et al. 2004). Synchronization of cell division was performed as described previously (Suzuki et al. 2005). Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of Arabidopsis was carried out by the vacuum infiltration method. Seeds were sown on selective plates containing appropriate actibiotics. Immunofluorescence analysis was performed as described (Nishihama et al. 2001).
