!~ABS~! Light is one of the most important environmental factors that determine the timing of a plant's transition from the vegetative to reproductive, or flowering, phase. Not only daylength but also the spectrum of light greatly affect flowering. The shade of nearby vegetation reduces the ratio of red to far-red light and can trigger shade avoidance responses, including stem elongation and the acceleration of flowering. Phytochrome B (phyB) acts as a photoreceptor for this response. Physiological studies have suggested that leaves can perceive and respond to shade. However, little is known about the mechanisms involved in the processing of light signals within leaves. In this study, we used an enhancer-trap system to establish Arabidopsis thaliana transgenic lines that express phyB–green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein in tissue-specific manners. The analysis of these lines demonstrated that phyB-GFP in mesophyll cells affected flowering, whereas phyB-GFP in vascular bundles did not. Furthermore, mesophyll phyB-GFP suppressed the expression of a key flowering regulator, FLOWERING LOCUS T, in the vascular bundles of cotyledons. Hence, a novel intertissue signaling from mesophyll to vascular bundles is revealed as a critical step for the regulation of flowering by phyB.
!~RES~! To examine tissue-specific functions of phyB, we expressed a phyB-GFP fusion protein using a CaMV 35S minimal promoter-based enhancer-trap system. We constructed a vector containing the PHYB-GFP fusion gene and the CaMV 35S minimal promoter (Figure 1A), which is thought to be expressed only when it is inserted near cis-acting chromosomal enhancers. The vector was transformed into the phyB mutant of Arabidopsis by the Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated method, and 336 independent PBT lines were established. We first examined fluorescence of phyB-GFP in light-grown seedlings under a conventional fluorescence microscope. Fluorescence was observed in 74 of the 336 PBT lines. Characteristic phyB-GFP speckles (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) were observed in the nuclei of these lines. The spatial patterns of phyB-GFP expression are summarized in Table 1. [[FIGURE]] PhyB-GFP Expression Patterns in PBT Lines As controls, lines that expressed phyB-GFP under the control of the authentic PHYB promoter, referred to as Bpro lines, were established. The phyB mutant was transformed with a vector carrying the authentic PHYB promoter and the PHYB-GFP gene (Figure 1A). We obtained more than 30 Bpro lines that exhibited normal flowering under white light. Observations of the light-grown Bpro seedlings under a conventional fluorescence microscope revealed phyB-GFP expression in all organs and tissues, including vascular bundles, stomata, and trichomes. The overall patterns were consistent with those reported for the PHYB promoter-GUS fusion gene expression (CITATION; CITATION). On the basis of the immunoblotting analysis, we chose Bpro7 as a representative of Bpro lines (data not shown). We examined the flowering phenotype of the 74 GFP-positive PBT lines under continuous white light. Under these conditions, the phyB mutant, which was used as the host plant for the transformation, clearly exhibited the early flowering phenotype (CITATION). Among these PBT lines, 56 lines exhibited normal flowering time (Table 1). These included the lines expressing phyB-GFP in almost all organs (20 lines), in cotyledons and other organs (23 lines), and in cotyledons (13 lines). The patterns in the other 18 lines that flowered as early as the phyB mutant were as follows: five root-specific lines, two vascular bundle–specific lines, two leaf primordia–specific lines, six trichrome-specific lines, and three stomata-specific lines (Table 1). To confirm that the expression of phyB-GFP was properly monitored, 50 PBT lines that were negative for the GFP fluorescence were chosen at random and subjected to the flowering time analysis. As expected, all the 50 PBT lines flowered early. Thus, evidence suggests that phyB-GFP in cotyledons is crucial in the regulation of flowering. Interestingly, all of the lines that exhibited normal flowering time appeared normal with respect to seedling and rosette leaf morphology. By contrast, all of the noncomplemented lines were indistinguishable from the phyB mutant (Table 1). Hence, phyB in cotyledons appears to be important, not only for flowering time regulation, but also for seedling and rosette leaf morphogenesis. Initial analysis of PBT lines suggests that cotyledons are the photoreceptive sites for the regulation of flowering by phyB (Table 1). To further confirm this and to examine the signal transduction processes within cotyledons, we chose representative lines and analyzed them in more detail. These lines were as follows: PBT48 and PBT56 as cotyledon-specific lines, PBT6 and PBT239 as vascular bundle lines, and PBT133 and PBT390 as root-specific lines. In agreement with previous reports (CITATION; CITATION), flowering was accelerated in phyB mutants under continuous (Figure 1B), long-day (Figure 1C), and short-day light treatments (Figure 1D). As expected, lines expressing phyB-GFP in cotyledons (Bpro7, PBT48, and PBT56) flowered as late as the wild type, whereas the others (PBT6, PBT239, PBT133, and PBT390) flowered early. In parallel, complementation of long hypocotyl and small cotyledon phenotypes was observed in the normal flowering lines (Figures 1E and 1F). We observed the expression pattern of phyB-GFP in more detail under a laser scanning confocal microscope. In the mesophyll cells of cotyledons, the phyB-GFP speckles were detected in Bpro7, PBT48, and PBT56 but not in other lines (Figures 2A to 2F and 2H). By contrast, phyB-GFP in the vascular bundles of the cotyledon was observed only in Bpro7, PBT6, and PBT239 (Figures 2I to 2N and 2P). We then examined these lines to determine whether phyB-GFP was expressed in other parts of the seedlings. In the shoot apex, only Bpro7 expressed a significant level of phyB-GFP (Figures 3A to 3F and 3H). In the hypocotyl, the expression was observed in Bpro7, PBT6, and PBT239 (Figures 3I to 3N and 3P). It should be noted that the expression of PhyB-GFP was restricted to the vascular bundles in PBT6 and PBT239. PhyB-GFP was observed in roots in Bpro7, PBT6, PBT239, PBT133, and PBT390 (Figures 3Q to 3V and 3X). Again, the expression was restricted to the vascular bundles in PBT6 and PBT239. These observations indicate that flowering is delayed, in the presence of phyB-GFP in mesophyll cells, to a greater extent than it is when phyB-GFP is present in vascular bundles. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In addition to mesophyll expression, a low but detectable level of phyB-GFP was observed in the epidermis in PBT48 and PBT56 (Figures 2Q to 2V and 2X). Thus, it is possible that phyB-GFP in the epidermis regulates flowering. To examine this possibility, an additional line, PBG10 (Figures 2G, 2O, 2W, 3G, 3O, and 3W), in which phyB-GFP was expressed under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter, was employed. PhyB-GFP was expressed in specific parts of the seedlings in the PBG10, which is probably a result of the positional effect (LippmCITATION). Confocal microscopic observations revealed that phyB-GFP epidermal expression was significantly higher in PBG10 than in PBT56 (Figure 4), although a higher level of expression was observed for PBT48 (data not shown). Nevertheless, flowering time was normal in PBT56, yet early in PBG10 (Figures 1B to 1D). Hence, we concluded that the effect of phyB on flowering is much more significant when it is expressed in the mesophyll than it is when present in the epidermis. [[FIGURE]] To confirm the observed expression patterns and to estimate the expression levels of phyB-GFP in PBT lines, seedlings were separated into four parts, cotyledons, shoot apex, hypocotyls, and roots, and subjected to immunoblotting analysis. A band of predicted size (150 kD) was detected with anti-phyB antibody in all lines (Figure 5). As expected, the levels of phyB-GFP accumulated in the Bpro7 seedlings were comparable to those in the wild-type seedlings, demonstrating that Bpro7 seedlings accumulated phyB-GFP at normal levels. Consistent with our microscopic observations, phyB-GFP protein was detected in cotyledons but not in other plant parts in the PBT48 and PBT56 lines. By contrast, phyB-GFP was detected only in the roots in PBT133 and PBT390. In the vascular bundle lines PBT6 and PBT239, low levels of phyB-GFP were detected in cotyledons, hypocotyls, and roots. [[FIGURE]] It has been proposed that phyB has an effect on flowering by regulating gene expression of a key regulator (FT) in response to shade (CITATION; CITATION). Accordingly, FT expression is increased in the phyB mutant (CITATION; CITATION). To further verify that FT is involved in the regulation of flowering by phyB, we established a phyB ft double mutant and examined its flowering time under continuous white light. In agreement with the above research findings, the early flowering phenotype of the phyB mutant was greatly suppressed by the ft mutation (Figure 6). [[FIGURE]] In continuous white light, the APETALA1 gene, a marker for floral determination, is expressed in shoot apical meristems by day 12 (CITATION). Hence, we examined FT expression by RT-PCR during the first week of seedling development (i.e., day 2 through 7) in the wild type, the phyB mutant, PBT48, PBT56, and PBT6 under continuous light (Figure 7A). FT expression was increased continuously until day 7. Throughout the experimental period, FT expression was lower in PBT48, PBT56, and the wild type than it was in PBT6 and the phyB mutant. Hence, phyB-GFP effectively delayed FT expression when it was expressed in the mesophyll (PBT48 and PBT56) but not when it was expressed in vascular bundles (PBT6). [[FIGURE]] The FT gene is expressed mainly in leaves but not in the shoot apex or the stem (CITATION). To examine organ-specific regulation of FT expression, Arabidopsis seedlings were grown for 5 d under continuous white light and then separated into cotyledons, shoot apex, and the remainder of the plant (i.e., hypocotyls and roots) and analyzed by RT-PCR. As expected, FT expression was much higher in cotyledons than in other plant parts (Figure 7B). Furthermore, FT expression was suppressed in cotyledons by phyB (cf. the wild type versus the phyB mutant). A similar pattern of suppression was observed in PBT48 and PBT56 but not in PBT6. Hence, we concluded that phyB-GFP in mesophyll cells regulated FT expression in cotyledons in a manner similar to that of endogenous phyB. To examine PHYB-GFP and FT expression at the tissue level, we isolated mesophyll protoplasts and vascular bundles from cotyledons (Figures 8A and 8B). Mesophyll protoplasts were prepared according to CITATION. The purity of mesophyll protoplasts was estimated to be >90% by microscopic observation. To isolate vascular bundles, cotyledons were dipped into cell wall digesting enzyme solution and sonicated gently several times. Most of the mesophyll and epidermal cells were broken, whereas vascular bundles remained intact for the large part because of their hardness. Little mesophyll cell contamination was observed in the preparations. [[FIGURE]] The expression of marker genes, RbcS for mesophyll cells and Sultr for vascular bundles (CITATION), was examined to further confirm that the separation of the tissues was efficient (Figure 8C). The expression of RbcS in mesophyll protoplasts was approximately four times higher than that in the vascular bundle samples. Conversely, the Sultr expression in the vascular bundle sample was much higher than in the mesophyll protoplasts. We examined the PHYB-GFP mRNA in the same samples to confirm the tissue-specific expression of phyB-GFP. Consistent with the confocal microscopic observations, mesophyllic expression in PBT48 and PBT56 and vascular bundle expression in PBT6 were comparable to those in Bpro7, whereas vascular bundle expression in PBT48 and PBT56 and mesophyllic expression in PBT6 were low (Figure 8D). The FT gene is expressed mainly in vascular bundles but much less in the mesophyll in wild-type seedlings (CITATION). Nevertheless, phyB-GFP expressed in mesophyll was much more effective in suppressing FT expression in cotyledons than that in vascular bundles (Figure 7B). Hence, we examined whether the mesophyllic phyB-GFP indeed suppressed FT expression in vascular bundles. Mesophyll protoplasts and vascular bundles were prepared from the cotyledons of the seedlings grown under continuous white light for 5 d followed by RT-PCR analyses. Consistent with a previous promoter analysis (CITATION), FT expression was higher in vascular bundles than it was in mesophyll cells in wild-type seedlings (Figure 8E). The expression was higher compared with the wild type in vascular bundles, but not in the mesophyll in the phyB mutant, indicating that the endogenous phyB mainly suppresses FT expression in vascular bundles. Expression of FT in the vascular bundles was suppressed in PBT48 and PBT56, in which phyB-GFP was expressed in the mesophyll but not in the vascular bundles, compared with the phyB mutant (Figure 8E). By contrast, FT expression in vascular bundles was as high in the parental phyB mutant as it was in the vascular bundles of PBT6. Hence, phyB-GFP in mesophyll cells suppressed FT expression in vascular bundles, whereas phyB-GFP in the vascular bundles did not.
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis thaliana mutants used were phyB-1, phyB-5 (CITATION), and ft-2 (CITATION; CITATION) in the Landsberg erecta (Ler) background. phyB-5 was used as the host for transformation. PBT6 was derived from the transformation of the phyB-1 mutant, which was outcrossed two to three times with the wild type (ecotype Columbia). The original PBT6 was additionally outcrossed three times with the phyB-5 mutant in the Ler background. We confirmed that the phyB mutation in the resultant PBT6 was phyB-5 using derived cleaved amplified polymorphic sequences. Preparation of PBG10 is described elsewhere (CITATION). Seeds were surface-sterilized and sown on 0.6% agar plates containing MS medium without sucrose. The plates were kept in the dark at 4°C for 24 h and then placed under white light conditions, as specified in the figure legends. For hypocotyl length measurements, the seedlings were grown on MS agar plates for 5 d at 22°C and then pressed gently onto the surface of agar medium before photographs were taken. Hypocotyl lengths and cotyledon area were determined by NIH image software (Bethesda, MD). Sterilized seeds, sown on soil, were used for the measurement of flowering times. Flowering times were measured by counting rosette leaf numbers (CITATION). The binary vectors pPZP211/PBT and pPZP211/Bpro used for the expression of phyB-GFP were derived from the binary plant transformation vector pPZP211 (CITATION). A 1.4-kb fragment containing the CaMV 35S promoter and neomycin phosphotransferase II (nptII) gene was amplified from pPZP211 by PCR and cloned into pGEM7zf (Promega, Madison, WI) (pGEM7zf/35S-nptII). A 0.2-kb fragment flanking the right border (RB) was amplified from pPZP211 and cloned into the vector pGEM3zf (Promega) (pGEM3zf/RB). A 70-bp fragment containing CaMV 35S minimal promoter was amplified from the vector pPZP211 and cloned into pGEM3zf/RB (pGEM3zf/RB-m35S). The fragment containing the RB and CaMV 35S minimal promoter was digested from pGEM3zf/RB-m35S and subcloned into the multiple cloning site of pGEM7zf/35S-nptII (pEM7zf/RB-m35S-35S-nptII). A 0.4-kb fragment containing the nopaline synthase terminator (nosT) was released from pBI-Hyg/CaMV 35S-nosT (CITATION) and inserted between the CaMV 35S minimal promoter and CaMV 35S of the vector pGEM7zf/ RB-m35S-35S-nptII (pGEM7zf/RB-m35S-nosT-35S-nptII). The sequence containing RB and the lacZ and nptII genes on pPZP211 was replaced with the RB-m35S-nosT-35S-nptII fragment (pPZP211/RB-m35S-nosT-35S-nptII). Finally, the PHYB-GFP chimeric cassette derived from the vector pBI-Hyg/35S-PHYB-sGFP-nosT (CITATION) was inserted between m35S and nosT of the vector pPZP211/RB-m35S-nosT-35S-nptII (pPZP211/RB-m35S-PHYB-sGFP-nosT-35S-nptII or pPZP211/PBT) (Figure 1A). SalI sites are located ∼2.3 kb upstream and 0.2 kb downstream of the initiation codon of the endogenous PHYB gene (CITATION). Accordingly, the 2.5-kb SalI fragment containing the PHYB promoter was amplified from Arabidopsis genomic DNA by PCR. We replaced m35S of pPZP211/PBT with the PHYB promoter (pPZP211/RB-phyB promoter-PHYB-sGFP-nosT-35S-nptII or pPZP211/Bpro) (Figure 1A). The Arabidopsis phyB mutant was transformed with vectors described above by the Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated floral dip method (CITATION). Transformed plants were selected on agar medium containing 25 mg/L of kanamycin. phyB and phyB-GFP proteins were detected by immunoblotting the protein extracts from seedlings. Protein extraction, SDS-PAGE, protein blotting, and immunodetection were performed as described by CITATION. Proteins were extracted from 5-d-old seedlings grown under continuous white light and subjected to immunoblotting analysis with anti-Arabidopsis phyB antibody. Five-day-old seedlings grown under continuous white light were examined with a confocal laser scanning microscope (Zeiss LSM510; Jena, Germany). Green fluorescence from GFP (observation, 500 to 530 nm; excitation, 488 nm) and red fluorescence from chlorophyll (observation, >560 nm; excitation, 543 nm) were overlaid electronically. Mesophyll protoplasts were isolated as described by CITATION. Protoplasts were prepared using 50 cotyledons from seedlings grown for 5 d under continuous white light. We developed a novel technique to isolate vascular bundles by modifying the bundle sheath isolation method of CITATION and CITATION, CITATION). Cotyledons were processed with a sonicator (Heat Systems Ultrasonics, Farmingdale, NY) in a 1.5-mL plastic tube with 1 mL of cell wall digesting enzyme solution (CITATION). The vascular bundles that were detached from the other tissues were collected using a needle and tweezers under a binocular. The purity of mesophyll protoplasts was estimated to be >90% by microscopic observation, and little mesophyll cell contamination was observed in the vascular bundle preparations. Arabidopsis seedlings were grown under continuous white light. Total RNA was extracted from the whole seedlings or separated organs using Sepazol super (Nacalai Tesque, Kyoto, Japan) following the manufacturer's instructions. For tissue specificity analysis, total RNA was extracted from ∼104 mesophyll protoplasts or the vascular bundles prepared from 20 cotyledons using the Picopure RNA isolation kit (Arcturus, Mountain View, CA) following the manufacturer's instructions. Total RNA was digested with RNase-free DNaseI (Qiagen, Tokyo, Japan) following the manufacturer's instructions. Reverse transcription was performed with oligo(dT) primer using the SuperScript first-strand synthesis system for RT-PCR (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) according to the manufacturer's instructions. The TUB2/TUB3 gene was used as an internal control. The following primers were designed: TUB2/TUB3 (5′-CCAGCTTTGGTGATTTGAAC-3′; 5′-CAAGCTTTCGGAGGTCAGAG-3′), RbcS (5′-TCGAGTTAGAGCACGGATTTG-3′; 5′-TTCCACATTGTCCAGTACCG-3′), Sultr1;3 (5′-CGAAATGTCACCTGTTACGG-3′; 5′-GCTAGAACCAACTGAATGTCTCG-3′), GFP (5′-AAGGGCGAGGAGCTGTTCACC-3′; 5′-AGAAGTCGTGCTGCTTCATGTGG-3′), FT (5′-TATCTCCATTGGTTGGTGACTG-3′; 5′-GGGACTTGGATTTTCGTAACAC-3′). Except GFP primers, all the primer sets included at least one primer that spanned an exon–exon junction. PCR was performed in 200-μL tubes with a Rotor-Gene RG-3000A (Corbett Research, Sydney, Australia) using SYBR Green to monitor double-stranded DNA synthesis. Reaction mixtures contained 7.5 μL of SYBR Premix Ex Taq (TaKaRa, Ohtsu, Japan), 1 μL of cDNA, and 200 nM each gene-specific primer in a final volume of 15 μL. The following standard thermal profile was used for all PCRs: 95°C for 10 s, 55 cycles of 95°C for 5 s, and 60°C for 20 s. Data were analyzed using Rotor-Gene 6.0.16 software (Corbett Research). We examined negative template controls in these experiments, and no signal was observed (data not shown).
