!~ABS~! The function of the Rab-E subclass of plant Rab GTPases in membrane traffic was investigated using a dominant-inhibitory mutant (RAB-E1d[NI]) of Arabidopsis thaliana RAB-E1d and in vivo imaging approaches that have been used to characterize similar mutants in the plant Rab-D2 and Rab-F2 subclasses. RAB-E1d[NI] inhibited the transport of a secreted green fluorescent protein marker, secGFP, but in contrast with dominant-inhibitory RAB-D2 or RAB-F2 mutants, it did not affect the transport of Golgi or vacuolar markers. Quantitative imaging revealed that RAB-E1d[NI] caused less intracellular secGFP accumulation than RAB-D2a[NI], a dominant-inhibitory mutant of a member of the Arabidopsis Rab-D2 subclass. Furthermore, whereas RAB-D2a[NI] caused secGFP to accumulate exclusively in the endoplasmic reticulum, RAB-E1d[NI] caused secGFP to accumulate additionally in the Golgi apparatus and a prevacuolar compartment that could be labeled by FM4-64 and yellow fluorescent protein (YFP)–tagged Arabidopsis RAB-F2b. Using the vacuolar protease inhibitor E64-d, it was shown that some secGFP was transported to the vacuole in control cells and in the presence of RAB-E1d[NI]. Consistent with the hypothesis that secGFP carries a weak vacuolar-sorting determinant, it was shown that a secreted form of DsRed reaches the apoplast without appearing in the prevacuolar compartment. When fused to RAB-E1d, YFP was targeted specifically to the Golgi via a saturable nucleotide- and prenylation-dependent mechanism but was never observed on the prevacuolar compartment. We propose that RAB-E1d[NI] inhibits the secretory pathway at or after the Golgi, causing an accumulation of secGFP in the upstream compartments and an increase in the quantity of secGFP that enters the vacuolar pathway.
!~RES~! To investigate the trafficking functions of the plant Rab-E subclass, we generated a dominant-negative mutant allele of one member of the Arabidopsis Rab-E subclass, RAB-E1d (At5g03520). This mutant, RAB-E1d[NI], carries a single amino acid substitution, Asn128 to Ile, in the conserved GTP binding motif GNKxD. The corresponding substitution in many Rab and other Ras-like GTPases reduces affinity for nucleotide, resulting in dominant-negative alleles that have provided valuable information on the trafficking functions of the respective Rab proteins in yeasts, mammals, and plants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The corresponding mutation in the yeast ortholog of Rab-E1d, Sec4[N133I], has been extensively characterized and shown to be a specific dominant inhibitor of Sec4 function in transport from the Golgi to PM and to interact with the nucleotide exchange factor Sec2 (CITATION; CITATION). The effect of RAB-E1d[NI] on biosynthetic membrane traffic was analyzed in a transport assay previously used to characterize dominant mutants of Arabidopsis RAB-D2a (ARA5; AtRab1b; At1g02130, a member of the Rab-D2 subclass), RAB-F2b (ARA7; At4g19640), SAR1, and a tobacco syntaxin (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). This assay is based on a secreted green fluorescent protein marker, secGFP, which is transported from the ER to the apoplast where it accumulates poorly and exhibits weak fluorescence (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Under conditions that inhibit biosynthetic traffic to the apoplast, fluorescent secGFP protein accumulates inside the cells and can be readily visualized in the endomembrane compartments (CITATION). Both the wild-type and mutant cDNAs of RAB-E1d were coexpressed with secGFP by Agrobacterium-mediated transfection of tobacco lower epidermal cells as described previously (CITATION). Sixty-five to 72 h after infiltration, secGFP fluorescence intensity was examined by confocal laser scanning microscopy at low magnification. At this time, control cells expressing only secGFP exhibited very dim fluorescence (Figures 1A and 1B) in comparison with cells expressing an ER-resident GFP marker, GFP-HDEL (Figures 1A and 1C). Coexpression of secGFP with a dominant-inhibitory allele of Arabidopsis RAB-D2a, RAB-D2a[NI], that has been shown to inhibit transport between the ER and Golgi apparatus (CITATION), resulted in an increase in GFP fluorescence owing to intracellular accumulation of secGFP (Figure 1D). When secGFP was coexpressed with wild-type RAB-E1d (Figure 1E), the fluorescence appeared to be unaltered relative to secGFP alone (Figure 1B), suggesting that wild-type RAB-E1d did not affect biosynthetic traffic of secGFP under these conditions. By contrast, in the presence of RAB-E1d[NI], a significant increase in GFP fluorescence and intracellular accumulation was detected (Figure 1F). Quantitative analysis of confocal images confirmed that tissues cotransfected with RAB-E1d[NI] had approximately five times the fluorescence intensity of tissues coexpressing RAB-E1d but approximately half the intensity measured in the presence of RAB-D2a[NI] (Figure 1G). These data suggest that RAB-E1d[NI] inhibited secGFP traffic but less efficiently than RAB-D2a[NI]. [[FIGURE]] To establish whether or not RAB-E1d[NI] caused secGFP to accumulate in the same compartments as RAB-D2a[NI], we examined tissues expressing each mutant at higher resolution by confocal laser scanning microscopy. In most epidermal cells of leaf tissues infiltrated with secGFP alone, secGFP fluorescence was barely detectable, but in a few cells secGFP was seen either in the apoplast (Figure 2A), in a network interpreted as ER by comparison to GFP-HDEL (Figure 2B), or in unidentified mobile punctate structures in addition to the ER. In the presence of RAB-D2a[NI], however, intracellular secGFP appeared to have accumulated exclusively in the ER network (Figure 2C, inset), as reported previously (CITATION). By contrast, in cells that accumulated most secGFP in the presence of RAB-E1d[NI], GFP was observed in numerous small mobile punctate structures of unknown identity in addition to the ER network (Figure 2D, inset and arrowheads). Control cells expressing secGFP alone occasionally accumulated fluorescent GFP in the ER and in similar punctate structures. Therefore, to determine the effect of RAB-E1d[NI] and RAB-D2a[NI] mutants more precisely, we counted the number of visibly fluorescent cells per field of view in tissues infiltrated with secGFP alone or with secGFP plus either RAB-E1d[NI] or RAB-D2a[NI] and determined the subcellular distribution of secGFP in each fluorescent cell with a 40×/1.2 numerical aperture (NA) objective lens. As shown in Figure 2E, the presence of RAB-E1d[NI] increased the number of fluorescent cells and the proportion of cells that accumulated GFP in punctate structures as well as in the ER. By contrast, expression of RAB-D2a[NI] resulted in a pronounced reduction in the percentage of cells that exhibited GFP fluorescence in punctate structures despite a marked increase in the total number of fluorescent cells. These results confirmed that RAB-E1d[NI] resulted in a mild but significant increase in intracellular secGFP accumulation and indicated that RAB-E1d[NI] and RAB-D2a[NI] had opposite effects on the accumulation of secGFP in the small punctate structures. [[FIGURE]] To investigate the identity of the small punctate structures that accumulated secGFP in the presence of RAB-E1d[NI], we first asked whether they represented either a domain of the ER or a sorting compartment between the ER and Golgi. To do this, we examined cells that accumulated secGFP after cotransfecting leaf tissues with secGFP, RAB-E1d[NI], and the ER marker yellow fluorescent protein (YFP)-HDEL (CITATION) constructs. YFP-HDEL contains a C-terminal HDEL tetrapeptide that promotes receptor-mediated retrieval to the ER (CITATION; CITATION), so if the punctate structures that accumulate secGFP in the presence of RAB-E1d[NI] are part of the ER or the retrieval pathway, they should also accumulate YFP-HDEL. We found that YFP-HDEL colocalized with secGFP in the ER network but did not mark the small punctate secGFP structures (Figures 3A to 3D, arrows; see Supplemental Movies 1 and 2 online), indicating that these structures were distinct from the ER and were unlikely to represent an intermediate on the ER retrieval pathway. To test whether the secGFP-labeled punctate structures represented an ER–Golgi intermediate that was incompatible with YFP fluorescence, the ER markers YFP-HDEL and GFP-HDEL were coexpressed with RAB-E1d[NI], and in all cells examined YFP and GFP fully colocalized (e.g., Figure 3E). This confirmed that GFP-HDEL does not label a compartment that is incompatible with YFP fluorescence and further suggested that the punctate structures that are labeled by secGFP were not derived from the ER retrieval pathway. [[FIGURE]] Coexpression of YFP-HDEL with secGFP and RAB-E1d[NI] highlighted the existence of a second type of punctate structure that was faintly labeled by secGFP in the presence of RAB-E1d[NI] (Figures 3C and 3D, arrowheads). As with the small punctate structures initially observed, these structures excluded YFP-HDEL (Figures 3C and 3D, arrowheads), indicating they were also post-ER compartments and were mobile (see Supplemental Movies 1 and 2 online). However, they were apparently larger and exhibited dimmer fluorescence than the other punctate structures. In contrast with the complex distribution of secGFP in the presence of RAB-E1d[NI], when secGFP was coexpressed with RAB-D2a[NI], it accumulated exclusively in the reticular network where it colocalized precisely with YFP-HDEL (Figure 3F), consistent with the previous conclusion that RAB-D2a[NI] inhibits membrane traffic between the ER and Golgi apparatus (CITATION). These observations suggested that RAB-E1d[NI] behaves differently from RAB-D2a[NI] on biosynthetic membrane traffic, acting downstream of the ER and probably not upstream of the ER retrieval compartment. One possible explanation for the accumulation of secGFP in the ER and post-ER compartments in the presence of RAB-E1d[NI] is that RAB-E1d[NI] might act directly in both ER–Golgi traffic and in a subsequent trafficking step. Alternatively, RAB-E1d[NI] might act specifically at a later stage of biosynthetic traffic causing secGFP to accumulate initially in post-ER compartments, with accumulation upstream arising as a secondary effect. To test if RAB-E1d[NI] directly inhibits ER–Golgi membrane trafficking, we next examined whether it inhibited Golgi targeting of sialyltransferase (ST)-YFP, a YFP-based Golgi marker (CITATION). Consistent with previous observations (CITATION; CITATION), when ST-YFP was coexpressed with RAB-D2a[NI], ST-YFP redistributed from a punctate pattern typical of the Golgi apparatus to the ER, though residual labeling of Golgi stacks was still evident (Figure 3I). By contrast, coexpression of ST-YFP with RAB-E1d[NI] had little if any effect on the localization of the Golgi marker (Figure 3H). Moreover the YFP-labeled Golgi stacks were similar in apparent size and number to those of control cells (Figure 3G). These observations provided further evidence that RAB-E1d[NI] and RAB-D2a[NI] have distinct effects on biosynthetic membrane traffic and suggested that, unlike RAB-D2a, RAB-E1d[NI] might not act directly in ER–Golgi transport. To identify the post-ER punctate structures that accumulated secGFP in the presence of RAB-E1d[NI], a variety of endomembrane markers were coexpressed with secGFP and RAB-E1d[NI]. Because the larger, fainter punctate structures that accumulated secGFP in the presence of RAB-E1d[NI] were reminiscent of Golgi stacks with respect to their number, motility, and morphology in the confocal microscope (CITATION), secGFP was coexpressed with RAB-E1d[NI] and the Golgi marker ST-YFP (CITATION). Because the larger secGFP-labeled punctate structures were often slightly brighter than the associated ER network, they could be identified by careful examination even in the absence of YFP-HDEL (Figures 4A, 4D, arrowheads, and 8A, red arrows). Strikingly, ST-YFP colocalized with these large, faint punctate structures (Figures 4A to 4F, arrowheads) but not with the smaller brighter ones (Figures 4A to 4F, arrows; a second example is given in Supplemental Figure 1A online). When control cells coexpressing ST-YFP without secGFP were imaged with identical imaging parameters, there was no visible signal in the GFP image (Figures 4G to 4I), excluding the possibility that the Golgi-sized faint punctate structures represented bleed-through of YFP fluorescence into the GFP detection channel. [[FIGURE]] The small punctate structures that accumulated secGFP in the presence of RAB-E1d[NI] were amongst those structures labeled by FM4-64 (Figures 4J to 4L, white arrows; see also Supplemental Figure 1B for other examples and Supplemental Movie 3 online), a dye that can label a variety of vacuolar, prevacuolar, and endosomal or putatively endosomal compartments in a variety of plant cells (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To further clarify the identity of the small punctate structures, we performed a double labeling experiment with YFP-RAB-F2b (CITATION). RAB-F2b (ARA7) is involved in the sorting of proteins with sequence-specific vacuolar sorting signals, and tagged RAB-F2b is known to localize predominantly to a prevacuolar compartment (PVC) that can be labeled by FM4-64, by markers derived from plant vacuolar sorting receptors, and by soluble vacuole-targeted markers (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). When secGFP was coexpressed with YFP-RAB-F2b and RAB-E1d[NI], the small, bright punctate structures labeled by secGFP (Figures 4M and 4O, arrows) were also marked by YFP-RAB-F2b (Figure 4N, arrows), indicating that these structures represent a PVC (see Supplemental Figure 1C and Movie 4 online). Because expression of RAB-E1d[NI] caused secGFP to accumulate in both Golgi and PVCs, it raised the question whether RAB-E1d[NI] inhibited only the biosynthetic pathway to the PM or also vacuolar traffic. To clarify this, we tested the effect of RAB-E1d[NI] on the vacuolar transport of spo:GFP (CITATION), a GFP variant that travels from the ER to the central lytic vacuole via the Golgi apparatus and a PVC (CITATION). When spo:GFP was expressed alone in tobacco epidermal cells, GFP fluorescence was dim but could be seen in punctate structures (Figure 5A) that represent a PVC (CITATION; CITATION). Fluorescence was not observed in the central vacuole, suggesting that spo:GFP may not be sufficiently stable or fluorescent in this compartment under our growth conditions (CITATION). As expected, cells that were cotransfected with spo:GFP and RAB-D2a[NI] exhibited markedly increased GFP fluorescence in a reticulate network typical of the ER (cf. Figures 5A and 5C), consistent with the view that spo:GFP is normally transported rapidly from the ER via the Golgi apparatus to the vacuole where it fails to accumulate. By contrast, coexpression with RAB-E1d[NI] did not alter spo:GFP fluorescence intensity or distribution, and the GFP-labeled PVC compartments were similar in apparent size and number to those of control cells (Figure 5B). Moreover, we did not observe extracellular accumulation of spo:GFP in the presence of RAB-E1d[NI] as reported when dominant-negative Rab-F2a or Rab-F2b mutants were coexpressed with vacuolar GFP markers in Arabidopsis protoplasts or tobacco leaves (CITATION; CITATION). Thus, RAB-E1d[NI] appears not to affect spo:GFP transport to the vacuole along the ER-Golgi-PVC pathway. These observations are also consistent with the previous conclusion that RAB-E1d[NI] does not act directly in ER-to-Golgi transport and suggest rather that RAB-E1d[NI] acts specifically in the late secretory pathway to the apoplast. [[FIGURE]] The presence of secGFP in a YFP-RAB-F2b-positive PVC in some control cells (Figure 2E) suggested that at least a portion of the secGFP protein enters the vacuolar pathway. The increased labeling of the PVC in the presence of RAB-E1d[NI] (Figure 2E) could be explained if the Rab mutant inhibits secGFP trafficking between the Golgi and apoplast resulting in more secGFP entering the vacuolar pathway. Alternatively, RAB-E1d[NI] may act at the PVC to inhibit secGFP traffic from PVC to vacuole or PM. To investigate these possibilities, we first asked whether secGFP indeed traffics to the vacuole in the absence and presence of RAB-E1d[NI]. If a proportion of secGFP is transported to the vacuole from the PVC, its presence there may be difficult to determine owing to the large volume, low pH, and proteolytic activity of this compartment. It has been reported that GFP can be stabilized in the vacuoles of Arabidopsis and tobacco cells by treatment with the membrane-permeant protease inhibitor E64-d, particularly in the dark (CITATION, CITATION). Therefore, we investigated the accumulation of secGFP and GFP-HDEL in E64-d–treated tissues. In these experiments, infiltration was performed with Agrobacterium harboring pVKH-secGFP at OD600 0.03 (three times the usual titre) to ensure high rates of secGFP synthesis and transport. Thirty six hours after infiltration with Agrobacterium, shortly after the onset of secGFP accumulation (see Figure 1A), transfected areas of the leaf were infiltrated with E64-d, then excised from the plant and floated on a solution of E64-d in darkness for 14 h. Confocal imaging revealed that secGFP was clearly detectable in the vacuoles of infected epidermal cells, whereas GFP-HDEL was largely excluded (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). We used the same method to investigate the effect of RAB-E1d[NI] and RAB-D2a[NI] on the transport and accumulation of secGFP in tissues treated with E64-d. All confocal images were acquired with the same imaging parameters, which were chosen to allow detection of the vacuolar signals in the control samples without excessive saturation of signal from the RAB-D2a[NI] sample. Coexpression of RAB-E1d[NI] did not inhibit secGFP accumulation in the vacuole but rather enhanced it (Figure 6C) relative to controls expressing RAB-E1d (Figure 6B) or secGFP alone (Figure 6A), whereas RAB-D2a[NI] prevented secGFP from reaching the vacuole (Figure 6D). Consistent with these findings, quantitative estimates of secGFP accumulation in the vacuole indicated a twofold increase in the presence of RAB-E1d[NI] relative to controls expressing wild-type RAB-E1d or secGFP alone (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] To further investigate transport to the vacuole in the presence of RAB-E1d[NI], we used E64-d to investigate vacuolar accumulation of aleu-GFP. This is a GFP derivative that carries a vacuolar sorting signal from Petunia hybrida aleurain (CITATION) and that has recently been shown to reach the vacuole via a RAB-F2b–dependent pathway in tobacco epidermal cells (CITATION). Using conditions described by CITATION, aleu-GFP was expressed in tobacco epidermal cells either alone or with RAB-E1d, RAB-E1d[NI], RAB-D2a[NI], or a dominant-negative RAB-F2b mutant (RAB-F2b[SN]). Thirty-three to 36 h after infiltration, infected areas of leaf tissue were treated with E64-d in darkness, and 12 to 14 h later confocal images were collected. Imaging parameters were chosen to allow detection of the vacuolar signals in the control samples without excessive saturation of signal from the RAB-D2a[NI] and RAB-F2b[SN] samples. In control cells (Figures 6E to 6H), aleu-GFP was visible in the vacuoles and punctate PVCs as well as in the apoplast of some cells (arrowheads), owing most probably to saturation of the vacuolar sorting receptors under these conditions (apoplastic fluorescence was particularly noticeable in some infiltrations; see for example Supplemental Figure 3 online). In the presence of RAB-E1d[NI], vacuolar and prevacuolar fluorescence of aleu-GFP was still clear (Figures 6I and 6J), and peripheral staining in the apoplast was significantly reduced (arrowheads; see Supplemental Figure 3 online). By contrast, accumulation of aleu-GFP in the vacuole was inhibited by RAB-F2b[SN] and RAB-D2a[NI] (Figures 6K and 6M). RAB-F2b[SN] caused a dramatic increase in aleu-GFP fluorescence in the apoplast and in punctate structures (Figure 6L), as described previously (CITATION), whereas RAB-D2a[NI] caused aleu-GFP to accumulate in the ER (Figure 6N) in accordance with our observations with the vacuolar marker spo:GFP (Figures 5A and 5C). Examining samples at higher magnification confirmed that RAB-E1d[NI] did not cause aleu-GFP to accumulate in the ER (data not shown), consistent with our previous observations with spo:GFP (Figure 5B). The marked differences in the distribution of aleu-GFP caused by dominant-negative mutants of the Rab-E, Rab-D2, and Rab-F2 subclasses provide further evidence of the distinct and specific action of each class of mutant in tobacco epidermal cells. These observations confirmed that (1) a proportion of the secGFP molecules can be transported to the vacuole (at least when steady state rates of synthesis are high), (2) RAB-E1d[NI] does not inhibit transport of secGFP or aleu-GFP to the vacuole, and (3) RAB-E1d[NI] appears to increase the proportion of secGFP that accumulates in the vacuole relative to the cell wall. Thus, the accumulation of secGFP in PVC in the presence of RAB-E1d[NI] could reflect an increase in the proportion of secGFP that enters the Golgi-to-vacuole pathway. However, we also considered the possibility that the PVC may lie on the pathway between Golgi and apoplast and that RAB-E1d[NI] may act at or beyond this compartment to inhibit the transport of secGFP to the apoplast. To test these possibilities, we investigated the membrane targeting specificity of RAB-E1d and asked whether the PVC lies on the default pathway to the apoplast. Because Rab proteins must be targeted to specific compartments to perform their function, we asked whether RAB-E1d carried information for targeting heterologous proteins to either the Golgi or PVC. YFP was fused to the N terminus of wild-type RAB-E1d, RAB-E1d[SN] (a mutant carrying the S29N substitution that is predicted to restrict the protein to the GDP-bound form), and RAB-E1dΔCC, which lacks the conserved Cys residues that are required for C-terminal prenylation and membrane attachment (CITATION). The resulting fusions were coexpressed in tobacco epidermal cells with the Golgi marker ST-GFP (CITATION). As shown in Figure 7, YFP-RAB-E1d was exclusively localized to the cytoplasm and punctate structures (Figure 7A) positive for ST-GFP (Figures 7B and 7C), indicating that RAB-E1d has specific targeting information for Golgi stacks. Labeling of the Golgi was most evident in cells that exhibited the lowest expression levels, becoming increasingly difficult to distinguish from the cytosolic pool as YFP-RAB-E1d expression levels increased (data not shown). This suggests that Golgi labeling was a saturable process. Moreover, the two mutant alleles, YFP-RAB-E1d[SN] (Figure 7D) and YFP-RAB-E1dΔCC (Figure 7G), were exclusively cytosolic, strongly suggesting that RAB-E1d requires both normal nucleotide binding and C-terminal prenylation to target YFP to the Golgi apparatus. [[FIGURE]] In contrast with the precise colocalization of YFP-RAB-E1d to the Golgi apparatus, YFP-tagged RAB-D2a labeled Golgi-associated punctate structures that were also observed in complete isolation from Golgi stacks (Figures 7J to 7L, arrows). Again, targeting was dependent on normal GTP binding as the YFP-RAB-D2a[S22N] mutant was cytosolic (Figure 7M). To examine if there was any fraction of RAB-E1d associated with the secGFP-labeled PVC compartment, we coexpressed secGFP and YFP-RAB-E1d. In cells where intracellular secGFP could be identified in small bright (Figure 8A, inset and white arrows) and large faint (Figure 8A, inset and red arrows) punctate structures, YFP-RAB-E1d colocalized to the latter (red arrows) but not to the former (white arrows) (Figures 8A to 8C, insets), indicating that RAB-E1d did not associate with the PVC and confirming its location on Golgi stacks (see Supplemental Movie 5 online). Images of cells expressing YFP-RAB-E1d in the absence of intracellular secGFP (Figures 8D to 8F) excluded the possibility that the weak GFP signal in the large punctate structures in Figure 8A was bleed-through from YFP-RAB-E1d to the GFP channel. These observations indicate that RAB-E1d has the capacity to target YFP specifically to the Golgi apparatus and suggest that this organelle is its likely site of action. [[FIGURE]] Finally, we investigated why secGFP was detected in the RAB-F2b-positive PVC. Although secGFP has previously been observed in, and isolated from, the apoplast (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), it is nevertheless possible that it carries a cryptic vacuolar sorting determinant that promotes the entry of some proportion of the secGFP into the vacuolar pathway. Alternatively, it may be that the default pathway to the apoplast includes the RAB-F2b-positive PVC from which vacuolar and secreted proteins are sorted. If the PVC does lie on the default pathway, it should be labeled by other secreted proteins. To test this hypothesis, we constructed a secreted form of monomeric red fluorescent protein1 (mRFP1), a monomeric derivative of DsRed (CITATION) that is unrelated to GFP and foreign to plants. This marker, secRFP, was coexpressed with secGFP in tobacco epidermal cells, which were imaged ∼50 h after infiltration when the rate of marker expression and transport was at its highest (Figure 1A). In cells with the highest steady state levels of secGFP and secRFP transport, both proteins were visible in the ER, but the PVC was labeled by secGFP only (Figures 9A and 9C, insets and arrows). Nevertheless, secRFP was clearly observed in the apoplast, where it was stable and accumulated in a fluorescent form (Figures 9B and 9C). This demonstrates that not all secreted proteins accumulate in the PVC en route to the apoplast and argues in favor of a cryptic vacuolar sorting signal within secGFP that diverts a portion of the protein to the RAB-F2b-positive PVC. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Standard molecular techniques were followed as described by CITATION. The generation of plasmids pVKH-secGFP, pVKH-ST-GFP, pVKH-GFP-HDEL, and RAB-D2a[NI] is described by CITATION. YFP-RAB-F2b is described by CITATION. pVKH-N-ST-YFP is described by CITATION. pVKH-YFP-HDEL was a gift of F. Brandizzi and C. Hawes (Oxford Brookes University, Oxford, UK). The RAB-E1d coding region was amplified from a cDNA clone using primers PAR8-1 and PAR8-4 (PAR8-1, 5′-AATGGATCCGCTCGAGCACCATGGCGGTTGCGCCGGC-3′; PAR8-4, 5′-TAGCGGGATCCCTAAACGTAACTACAGCAAGC-3′). The N128I substitution was effected by overlapping PCR using PAR8-1 and PAR8-4 together with PAR8-2 (5′-TTTGATTCCAACCAATATTTTGTTAACATTATCTGAGG-3′) and PAR8-3 (5′-GTTAACAAAATATTGGTTGGAATCAAAGCTGATATGGA-3′), which created a HpaI site (shown in bold) by silent substitution. The coding sequences of RAB-E1d and RAB-E1d[NI] were obtained by digestion with XhoI and BamHI (underlined in sequence of PAR8-1 and PAR8-4, respectively) and cloned between the SalI and BamHI sites of pVKHEn6-Ara5mΔGUS, a derivative of pVKHEn6-GUS (CITATION). pVKHEn6-Ara5mΔGUS was generated as follows: the RAB-D2a[NI] coding sequence (CITATION) was cloned as an XhoI-BamHI fragment in the corresponding sites of pU-BOP (CITATION); an NheI-BamHI fragment was isolated and inserted into pVKHEn6-GUS at the XbaI and BamHI sites upstream of uidA; the uidA coding sequence was removed by digestion with Ecl136II and BamHI, treatment with Klenow fragment of DNA polymerase I, and religation to regenerate the BamHI site and produce pVKHEn6-Ara5mΔGUS. To generate the plasmid pVKH18-spo:GFP, the XbaI-SacI fragment of spo:GFP in the plasmid pUC18-spo:GFP (CITATION) (kindly provided by Inhwan Hwang [Pohang University of Science and Technology, Pohang, Korea]) was excised and used to replace the GUS coding sequence in the plasmid pVKHEn6-GUS (CITATION). YFP-Rab fusions were generated with an HA epitope–tagged version of the Venus variant of enhanced YFP (CITATION) in vector pVKHEn6-HAvenus. This was constructed by amplification of the Venus coding sequence using 5′-HA-YFP (5′-AATATCTAGATACCATGTATCCATACGATGTTCCAGATTATGCTGTGAGCAAGGGCGACGAG-3′) and 3′-HA-YFP (5′-ATTAGGATCCTTATGTCGACTCACTAGTCTTTGACAGCTCGTCCATG-3′) and cloning the product between the XbaI and BamHI sites of pVKHEn6-ST-GFP (CITATION). Wild-type and mutant AtRAB-D2a (CITATION) and AtRAB-E1d sequences were isolated as XhoI-BamHI fragments and inserted between the SalI (bold) and BamHI sites of pVKHEn6-HAvenus. The S22N substitution was introduced into the AtRAB-D2a (ARA5, AtRab1b) cDNA by overlapping PCR using PAR1 and PAR2 (CITATION) and A5S22N-5′ (5′-CTGGCGTAGGCAAGAATTGTCTACTTTTGAGATTC-3′) and A5S22N-3′ (5′-GAATCTCAAAAGTAGACAATTCTTGCCTACGCCAG-3′), which also introduced an additional AccI site (underlined) by silent mutagenesis. Similarly, the S29N substitution was introduced into the RAB-E1d cDNA by overlapping PCR that also introduced an additional AccI site by silent mutagenesis adjacent to the S29N substitution (the sequence 5′-AGTTGTTTGTTA-3′ encoding SCLL was changed to 5′-AATTGTCTACTA-3′ encoding NCLL). The RAB-E1dΔCC clone was generated by PCR using PAR8-1 and RabE1.d-ΔCC-BamHI-R (5′-TTTGGATCCCTAAACGTAACTAGCTGACTTCTC-3′, which lacks the sequence encoding for the two C-terminal Cys residues). pVKHEn6-secRFP was generated by isolating the mRFP1 (CITATION) coding sequence from ST-RFP (a gift of F. Brandizzi [University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, Canada]) using SalI and SacI and cloning it between the corresponding sites of pVKH-N-secGFP (CITATION), replacing the glycosylated GFP with mRFP1 downstream of the signal sequence. Transient expression or coexpression of Rab constructs and fluorescent markers in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) leaf lower epidermal cells was performed according to CITATION, except that plants were cultivated in constant light unless otherwise stated. Unless otherwise stated, the bacterial OD600 used for infiltration of the lower epidermis was 0.05 for untagged RAB-E1d wild type and mutant, 0.03 for RAB-D2a[NI], and 0.01 for GFP/YFP/RFP constructs. Thirty-three to 36 h after infiltration with Agrobacterium tumefaciens, shortly after the onset of secGFP accumulation, infected areas of the leaf were infiltrated with 400 μM E64-d (stock solution 200 mM in dimethylsulfoxide; Bachem, St. Helens, UK). The E64-d–infiltrated leaves were excised from the plant and floated on a solution of 200 μM E64-d at 20°C in darkness. Cells were imaged ∼14 h later, when steady state secGFP accumulation and transport was at its maximum. FM4-64 staining of cells coexpressing secGFP and RAB-E1d[NI] was performed by submerging pieces (∼5 mm2) of transfected leaves in 8.2 μM FM4-64 (stock solution 8.2 mM in water; Molecular Probes, Leiden, The Netherlands) for 30 to 60 min. Quantitative estimates of the degree of vacuolar fluorescence in medial optical sections through epidermal cells were made using the histogram function of the Zeiss LSM software version 2.8 (Jena, Germany) to determine the average pixel intensity in regions of interest defined within the vacuoles. The average pixel intensity in uninfected cells was used to determine the background signal, which was subtracted from each datum. Depending on the transfection efficiency and the magnification at which images were acquired in each of the four quantified experiments, the brightest 5 to 15 cells in each image were quantified. Unusually small cells with low vacuolar volumes were excluded from the analysis because these tended to show very high vacuolar fluorescence relative to other cells in all samples. In each experiment, the average vacuolar fluorescence in each sample was normalized to the value calculated for secGFP + E64-d. Unless otherwise stated, 65 to 72 h after infiltration of leaves with Agrobacterium strains, lower epidermis was analyzed with an upright Zeiss LSM 510 laser scanning microscope, using a 10× objective for low magnification imaging and either a C-apochromat 40×/1.2NA water-immersion or a Plan-apochromat 63×/1.4NA oil-immersion lens for higher magnification images. Pieces of leaf were sampled randomly from the infected area and mounted in water for simple observation or in a 0.05% aqueous solution of the nonfluorescent surfactant Pluronic F-127 (Molecular Probes) for quantitative imaging of secGFP. For single GFP fluorescence analyses (Figures 1, 2, 5, and 6), we used the 488-nm excitation line of a 25-mW argon ion laser and a 505- to 530-nm band-pass filter in the single-track facility of the microscope. To quantify relative GFP fluorescence intensity, a Plan-Neofluor 10×/0.3NA lens was used at 1× scan zoom. Detector gain was set to avoid saturated pixels in images of GFP-HDEL expressing leaf epidermis, and detector offset was set to avoid pixels of zero value in the images of uninfected leaf epidermis. Data was acquired in 12-bit depth. The average GFP fluorescence intensity was calculated from at least nine images of each leaf sample, and the experiment was repeated four times. In each experiment, the data were normalized to the average intensity of the sample expressing secGFP and RAB-D2a[NI], standard errors of the means were then calculated, and to correct for background fluorescence, the average value for samples expressing secGFP alone was subtracted. For GFP and YFP colocalization experiments, GFP and YFP fluorescence were analyzed using the 458- and 514-nm excitation lines from a 25-mW argon laser with the line-sequential multitrack scanning mode of the Zeiss LSM510 microscope. Fluorescence was detected using a 458/514-nm primary dichroic, a 515-nm secondary dichroic, and a 475- to 525-nm band-pass filter for GFP and a 535- to 590-nm band-pass filter for YFP. To detect secGFP together with secRFP or FM4-64, a line-sequential multitrack configuration with 488-nm excitation and a 505- to 530-nm emission filter for GFP and 543-nm excitation from a He-Ne laser and a 585- to 615-nm emission filter for either secRFP or FM4-64 fluorescence were used. Images were processed with LSM 2.8 or 3.2 (Zeiss) and Photoshop 5.0 (Adobe Systems, San Jose, CA) software.
