!~ABS~! The circadian clock acts as the timekeeping mechanism in photoperiodism. In Arabidopsis thaliana, a circadian clock–controlled flowering pathway comprising the genes GIGANTEA (GI), CONSTANS (CO), and FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT) promotes flowering specifically under long days. Within this pathway, GI regulates circadian rhythms and flowering and acts earlier in the hierarchy than CO and FT, suggesting that GI might regulate flowering indirectly by affecting the control of circadian rhythms. We studied the relationship between the roles of GI in flowering and the circadian clock using late elongated hypocotyl circadian clock associated1 double mutants, which are impaired in circadian clock function, plants overexpressing GI (35S:GI), and gi mutants. These experiments demonstrated that GI acts between the circadian oscillator and CO to promote flowering by increasing CO and FT mRNA abundance. In addition, circadian rhythms in expression of genes that do not control flowering are altered in 35S:GI and gi mutant plants under continuous light and continuous darkness, and the phase of expression of these genes is changed under diurnal cycles. Therefore, GI plays a general role in controlling circadian rhythms, and this is different from its effect on the amplitude of expression of CO and FT. Functional GI:green fluorescent protein is localized to the nucleus in transgenic Arabidopsis plants, supporting the idea that GI regulates flowering in the nucleus. We propose that the effect of GI on flowering is not an indirect effect of its role in circadian clock regulation, but rather that GI also acts in the nucleus to more directly promote the expression of flowering-time genes.
!~RES~! The lhy-11 cca1-1 double mutant is impaired in circadian clock function under free-running conditions, flowers extremely early under SDs, and exhibits a shift in the phase of expression of circadian clock–regulated genes under diurnal cycles of light and dark (CITATION). To test whether the photoperiodic flowering pathway is required for early flowering of lhy-11 cca1-1, mutations that impair the pathway and thereby cause late flowering were introduced into the double mutant. The flowering times of the triple mutants gi-3 lhy-11 cca1-1, co-2 lhy-11 cca1-1, and ft-1 lhy-11 cca1-1 were scored under both LDs and SDs (Figure 1A). Under SDs, the gi-3 lhy-11 cca1-1 triple mutant flowered with a similar number of leaves to the wild type and gi-3 mutant controls and produced >30 leaves more than the lhy-11 cca1-1 double mutant. By contrast, the co-2 lhy-11 cca1-1 and ft-1 lhy-11 cca1-1 triple mutants flowered under SDs with only ∼10 leaves more than lhy-11 cca1-1 double mutants and ∼20 leaves fewer than the wild-type control (Figure 1A). The effect of gi-3 on the early-flowering phenotype of lhy-11 cca1-1 was also more severe than the effect of co-2 and ft-1 under LDs (Figure 1A). [[FIGURE]] With respect to flowering time, gi-3 is therefore epistatic to lhy-11 cca1-1, indicating that the extreme early flowering of lhy-11 cca1-1 double mutants is almost completely dependent on GI activity, particularly under SDs. Genes that act later in the photoperiod pathway, such as CO and FT, are required to a lesser extent for this phenotype. In wild-type plants grown under SDs, the CO mRNA only accumulates during the night, and FT is not expressed under these conditions. A peak in the abundance of CO mRNA at an earlier phase under SDs in lhy-11 cca1-1 mutants may in part be responsible for the early flowering of these plants, as was shown for toc1-1 mutants (CITATION; CITATION). To test whether CO mRNA is expressed at an earlier phase in lhy-11 cca1-1 double mutant plants than in the wild type, RNA was extracted at intervals of 4 h for 24 h from plants growing under SDs of 10 h light, and CO mRNA abundance was analyzed by RT-PCR (Figure 2B). In wild-type plants, CO mRNA abundance rose 8 to 12 h after dawn and continued into the dark period with high expression also occurring 20 h after dawn. By contrast, CO mRNA abundance rose earlier in lhy-11 cca1-1 plants, rising sharply between 4 and 8 h after dawn with a second peak in expression 20 h after dawn. [[FIGURE]] CO is proposed to directly activate FT expression in a light-dependent manner (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION); therefore, whether the altered pattern of CO expression in lhy-11 cca1-1 double mutants correlated with earlier expression of FT under these conditions was also tested. In the double mutant plants, the abundance of FT mRNA rose 8 h after dawn with a strong peak at 12 h that had declined substantially by 16 h. By contrast, as expected, no expression of FT was detected in wild-type plants under SDs (Figure 2C). FT mRNA expression is therefore greatly increased in lhy-11 cca1-1 mutants compared with wild-type plants under SDs and shows a strong peak at lights off just after the peak in CO mRNA (Figures 2B and 2C). GI mRNA abundance peaks 4 h after dawn in the lhy-11 cca1-1 double mutants grown under LDs (CITATION) and SDs compared with 8 h after dawn in wild-type plants (Figure 2A). Therefore, in the double mutant, the GI, CO, and FT genes are expressed in the temporal sequence GI-CO-FT, as in wild-type plants. However, in lhy-11 cca1-1 double mutants grown under SDs, the peaks of expression of GI and CO are shifted earlier, and FT expression occurs soon after CO expression at lights off. The temporal order of expression of the GI-CO-FT genes and the strong suppression of the early flowering of lhy-11 cca1-1 plants caused by gi-3 mutations (Figure 1A) suggested that GI may be required for the high-amplitude, phase-shifted expression of CO and FT mRNAs in the lhy-11 cca1-1 double mutant. Therefore, the abundance of the CO and FT mRNAs was followed in the gi-3 lhy-11 cca1-1 triple mutant under SDs. The abundance of the CO and FT mRNAs was reduced dramatically in the triple mutant compared with lhy-11 cca1-1 (Figures 2B and 2C), so that gi-3 suppresses the increase in amplitude in CO and FT expression observed in lhy-11 cca1-1. To test whether this reduced expression of CO was a general feature of circadian clock–regulated genes in the gi-3 lhy-11 cca1-1 triple mutant, the expression of COLD CIRCADIAN REGULATED2(CCR2) was analyzed in lhy-11 cca1-1 and gi-3 lhy-11 cca1-1 under SDs. In wild-type plants, CCR2 is circadian clock regulated and its mRNA accumulates 8 h after dawn under SDs (Figure 2D). The phase of expression of CCR2 was shifted earlier in the lhy-11 cca1-1 double mutant compared with wild-type plants, but the amplitude of expression was not reduced in the gi-3 lhy-11 cca1-1 triple mutant (Figure 2D). Therefore, in contrast with its effect on CO and FT expression, the gi-3 mutation did not alter the amplitude or suppress the phase shift caused by lhy-11 cca1-1 on CCR2. In addition to GI, the proposed blue light receptor FLAVIN BINDING KELCH DOMAIN F-BOX1 (FKF1), whose mRNA abundance is circadian clock regulated with a peak around 8 h after dawn under SDs (CITATION) (Figure 2E), promotes CO transcription under LDs (CITATION). FKF1 mRNA abundance was tested in lhy-11 cca1-1 and gi-3 lhy-11 cca1-1 plants grown under SDs (Figure 2E). The peak in abundance of FKF1 mRNA was shifted around 4 h earlier in lhy-11 cca1-1 mutants compared with the wild type. However, in gi-3 mutants and in gi-3 lhy-11 cca1-1 plants, the pattern of FKF1 expression was similar to that of wild-type and lhy-11 cca1-1 plants, respectively, indicating that GI does not activate CO expression by promoting FKF1 transcription and that expression of FKF1 is not sufficient to promote CO transcription in the absence of GI. These experiments are consistent with the idea that early flowering of lhy-11 cca1-1 plants under SDs is caused by expression of GI at an earlier phase. GI in turn induces ectopic expression of the photoperiod pathway so that CO is expressed during the light phase, resulting in higher FT expression and early flowering. Analysis of lhy-11 cca1-1 double mutants suggested that expression of GI early during the light phase caused early flowering under SDs by activation of expression of CO and FT. However, many circadian clock–regulated genes are expressed at an earlier phase in plants impaired in LHY and CCA1 function (CITATION; CITATION). To assess whether misexpression of GI was sufficient to induce early flowering, a fusion of GI to the viral Cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter was constructed and introduced into both gi-3 mutant and wild-type plants. In 35S:GI plants, the GI mRNA was present throughout the daily cycle. At each time point, GI mRNA was more abundant in 35S:GI than in wild-type plants (Figure 3A). Transgenic wild-type plants or gi-3 mutants carrying 35S:GI flowered earlier than control wild-type plants (Figure 1B; data not shown for gi-3). This difference was most pronounced under SDs, where 35S:GI plants flowered with ∼35 fewer leaves than the wild type. These data indicate that constant overexpression of GI is sufficient to promote early flowering, even under noninductive SD conditions. [[FIGURE]] In addition to the lhy-11 cca1-1 double mutant, lhy-1, a dominant gain of function allele of LHY, was described as impaired in photoperiodic flowering and showed reduced GI expression under LDs (CITATION; CITATION). Flowering time of the lhy-1 mutant was measured under LDs and SDs (Figure 1B). The mutant appeared almost day-neutral, flowering later than the wild type under LDs and earlier than the wild type under SDs. 35S:GI promotes early flowering in the lhy-1 mutant (Figure 1B), consistent with GI playing a major role in the promotion of flowering downstream of LHY. 35S:GI lhy-1 plants were also earlier flowering than lhy-1 under SDs and under these conditions slightly earlier flowering than 35S:GI, suggesting that a part of the flowering phenotype of lhy-1 is additive to the effect of 35S:GI. Late-flowering gi mutants contain lower levels of CO mRNA (CITATION), suggesting that early flowering 35S:GI plants might show increased expression of CO mRNA that in turn caused increased abundance of FT mRNA. The effect of 35S:GI on the abundance of CO and FT mRNA was therefore measured in 35S:GI plants grown under SDs (Figures 3B and 3C). FT mRNA was present at high abundance 4, 8, and 12 h after dawn, suggesting that 35S:GI was sufficient to induce FT expression under SDs, where no FT expression occurs in wild-type plants. Similarly, CO mRNA abundance was higher in 35S:GI than in wild-type plants, and this effect was most pronounced early in the day when in wild-type plants CO mRNA abundance is at trough levels (Figure 3B). Previously, FKF1 was proposed to activate the expression of CO mRNA (CITATION). However, FKF1 mRNA levels were not affected by 35S:GI (Figure 3D), indicating that GI does not regulate CO mRNA abundance through the regulation of FKF1 mRNA. These data suggest that constant overexpression of GI from the Cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter leads to increased CO mRNA expression during the photoperiod in SDs and that CO then activates expression of FT. To test whether CO and FT are required for early flowering of 35S:GI plants, mutations in these genes were introduced into the 35S:GI background. The resulting lines were scored for flowering time under LDs and SDs. Under both day lengths, the co-2 35S:GI and ft-1 35S:GI plants flowered at a time intermediate between the original mutant and 35S:GI (Figure 1B). Especially under SDs, the early flowering caused by 35S:GI was still apparent in the mutant lines, which flowered significantly earlier than wild-type plants (Figure 1B). This suggests that the extreme early flowering of 35S:GI under SDs requires functional CO and FT genes but that GI can also promote flowering independently of these genes. 35S:GI plants flower early under SDs and show increased abundance of the CO and FT mRNAs (Figures 1B, 3B, and 3C). Whether a similar effect is observed on the patterns of expression of other circadian clock–regulated genes was tested in SD-grown plants (Figures 4A and 4B). A CCR2:LUCIFERASE (CCR2:LUC) transgene was introduced into 35S:GI and gi-3 backgrounds, and five transformants in each genetic background were isolated. Luminescence of CCR2:LUC plants showed a strong diurnal rhythm, which was followed for 72 h under SDs (Figure 4B). Under these conditions, luminescence of CCR2:LUC wild-type plants reached peak levels 9.1 h after dawn, whereas luminescence of gi-3 CCR2:LUC and 35S:GI CCR2:LUC peaked 11.6 and 12.5 h after dawn, respectively (Figure 4B). Similarly, the abundance of the LHY mRNA appeared to fall to trough levels more slowly in the morning and to rise in expression later in the evening, which is also consistent with a delayed phase of expression (Figure 4A). These experiments indicate that under SDs, the phase of expression of circadian clock–regulated genes is delayed by 35S:GI and gi-3. However, these effects are much less dramatic than those observed on the amplitude of diurnal rhythms in expression of mRNAs of the flowering-time genes CO and FT (Figures 3B and 3C) and do not correlate with flowering time because gi-3 and 35S:GI had similar effects on phase under SDs but opposite effects on flowering time (Figures 1 and 4B). [[FIGURE]] Mutations in GI generally shorten free-running rhythms in gene expression under continuous light (LL), reduce the amplitude of expression of the LHY and CCA1 genes, and cause late flowering (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The early-flowering phenotype of toc1-1 mutants can be explained by their short-period phenotype (CITATION). Therefore free-running rhythms in 35S:GI plants were tested to assess whether alteration of these rhythms might underlie the early-flowering phenotype. 35S:GI, gi-3 mutant, and Landsberg erecta (Ler) plants carrying the CCR2:LUC transgene were entrained to LD cycles of 16 h light/8 h dark and shifted to LL, and their luminescence was measured for 120 h (Figure 4D). Almost all plants of each genotype were rhythmic throughout the experiment (Figure 4E), although the rhythms dampened more rapidly in gi-3 and 35S:GI than in Ler (Figure 4D). In 35S:GI, the phase of the first peak that occurs after ZT 24 h in LL, and therefore the peak after the first subjective night, was more severely delayed compared with the wild type than under entraining conditions, indicating that the phase of the circadian rhythm in CCR2:LUC expression is delayed in 35S:GI. By contrast, in gi-3 mutants, the first peak in LL occurred earlier than that of the wild type, which is probably due to the shorter period of gi-3 mutants under free-running conditions (see below). The period lengths of the rhythms under LL were more variable for gi-3 and 35S:GI, but mean period length was shorter for both genotypes (Figures 4D and 4E). Therefore, under LL, both gi-3 and 35S:GI mutants exhibit a shorter period length than is observed in Ler, and 35S:GI causes a significant delay in phase. The pattern of expression of the mRNA of LHY was also analyzed at 4-h intervals for 80 h under LL in Ler, gi-3, and 35S:GI plants. The amplitude of the circadian rhythm in expression of LHY mRNA dampened rapidly in gi-3 mutants as previously described (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), making the estimation of circadian period difficult (Figure 4C). However, in 35S:GI plants, LHY mRNA showed a robust rhythm, and no increase in amplitude was observed despite the reduced amplitude observed in gi-3. A period length could not be extracted from these data with certainty using fast Fourier transform-nonlinear least squares (FFT-NLLS). However, visual inspection of the pattern of LHY mRNA abundance suggested that the effect of 35S:GI on phase was similar to that observed with CCR2:LUC because, for example, at 72 to 80 h in LL, the timing of the peak in LHY mRNA was delayed compared with that in Ler. Taken together, these experiments indicate that 35S:GI and gi-3 mutations shorten circadian period and that 35S:GI delays circadian phase, as measured accurately for CCR2:LUC, but that 35S:GI, unlike gi-3, does not influence the amplitude of LHY expression. The effect of gi mutations on circadian rhythms may be partly a consequence of impaired light input to the oscillator (CITATION). To follow the effect of GI overexpression and of impaired GI function on circadian rhythms in continuous dark (DD), the luminescence of 35S:GI, gi-3, and Ler plants carrying CCR2:LUC was compared for 4 d in DD after entrainment in LDs (Figure 4F). In contrast with wild-type plants, in gi-3 and 35S:GI plants, rhythms were of lower amplitude and the period length of the rhythms varied more widely between individuals (Figures 4F and 4G). CCR2:LUC appeared arrhythmic in both gi-3 and 35S:GI after the first 30 h in DD (Figure 4E). Therefore, in DD, GI is required to maintain at least a subset of circadian rhythms represented by CCR2:LUC, suggesting that the effect of GI in the circadian system is not only in light input. Mutations in GI were previously shown to impair phyB signaling during seedling deetiolation in red light (CITATION), and because phyB also regulates flowering time and circadian clock entrainment, the effects of 35S:GI and lhy-11 cca1-1 on hypocotyl length were compared in a similar way as shown above for flowering time (Figure 5). To test whether the expression of GI is limiting for red light responsiveness, the hypocotyls of 35S:GI plants were measured under different intensities of red light (Figure 5A). The hypocotyls of 35S:GI plants were shorter in red light than those of wild-type plants (P < 0.05). The difference was most pronounced at ∼10 and 1 μmol m−2 s−1. These results indicate that 35S:GI plants are hypersensitive to red light and, therefore, that the expression of GI is limiting on red light responses, particularly at high intensities. [[FIGURE]] The early flowering of lhy-11 cca1-1 double mutants may be explained by misexpression of GI (Figure 2A); therefore, the mechanism of early flowering is closely related to that of 35S:GI plants. Previously, lhy cca1 mutants were shown to have short hypocotyls under high intensity red light (CITATION; CITATION). To determine whether this effect requires GI and to compare the phenotype with that of 35S:GI, fluence response curves for hypocotyl elongation of lhy-11 cca1-1 and gi-3 lhy-11 cca1-1 seedlings in red light were made (Figure 5B). Under these conditions, the hypocotyls of lhy-11 cca1-1 plants, which in contrast with the previously studied lhy cca1 lines are in the Ler background, were shorter than the wild type at ∼10 μmol m−2 s−1, but overall, no significant difference in hypocotyl length between Ler and lhy-11 cca1-1 was found under red light. The gi-3 mutant exhibited a longer hypocotyl than Ler (P < 0.05), whereas the hypocotyls of gi-3 lhy-11 cca1-1 plants were shorter than gi-3 and slightly longer than lhy-11 cca1-1 (P < 0.05). The intermediate phenotype of the triple mutant suggests a complex interaction between gi-3 and lhy-11 cca1-1 in regulating hypocotyl length under red light. Hypocotyl lengths were also measured under SDs (Figure 5C). Under this condition, the hypocotyls of lhy-11 cca1-1 plants were significantly shorter than those of the wild type. By contrast, the gi-3 mutant exhibited a longer hypocotyl than wild-type plants. Under SDs, the hypocotyls of gi-3 lhy-11 cca1-1 triple mutants were a similar length to those of lhy cca1-1 mutants. The extreme short-hypocotyl phenotype of lhy-11 cca1-1 double mutants under SDs does not therefore depend on GI activity, and genes that act later in or independent of the photoperiod pathway, such as CO, FT, and FCA, are also not required for the shorter hypocotyl phenotype (data not shown). Taken together, our analysis indicates that in wild-type plants GI levels are limiting on seedling deetiolation under red light and SDs. In addition, in contrast with its early-flowering phenotype, the short-hypocotyl phenotype of lhy-11 cca1-1 under SDs does not require GI. The nuclear location of GI protein was previously demonstrated using GUS:GI and GFP:GI fusion proteins in transient assays performed in onion epidermal cells (CITATION). To test this in Arabidopsis and to determine the functionality of the fusion protein, 35S:GI:GFP and 35S:GFP:GI transgenes were made and introduced into gi-3 mutants. Transgenic plants containing 35S:GFP:GI were late flowering and not obviously earlier flowering than the gi-3 progenitor. By contrast, the gi-3 mutants containing 35S:GI:GFP flowered early and at a similar time to 35S:GI plants, indicating that the GI:GFP fusion protein was functional and promoted flowering. Confocal microscopy was used to analyze the cellular location of GI:GFP protein in the transgenic plants (Figure 6). In epidermal cells of the hypocotyl and leaf stomatal guard cells, the fusion protein was only detected in nuclei. This demonstrates that GI:GFP, which is functionally active in promoting flowering, is localized to the nucleus, strongly suggesting that GI acts in the nucleus to control flowering time. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis thaliana Ler ecotype was the wild type. The co-2, gi-3, and ft-1 mutants were kindly provided by M. Koornneef. The lhy-1 (CITATION) and lhy-11 cca1-1 (CITATION) mutants and 35S:CO transgenic plants (CITATION) were described previously. The CCR2:LUC transgenic plants were generated by introduction of the CCR2:LUC transgene (described previously in CITATION and kindly provided by S. Davis) into different genotypes by Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated transformation. The 35S:GI, 35S:GI:GFP, and 35S:GFP:GI transgenic plants in the gi-3 and Ler genotypes were generated by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of constructs containing the GI cDNA (CITATION) linked to the 35S promoter, with or without translational fusions to the GFP coding region from the pAVA393 vector (CITATION). Two independent transgenic lines, 35S:GI-A and/or 35S:GI-B, that were homozygous for single copy insertions of the transgene T-DNAs in Ler were used for the experiments presented here. Plants were grown on soil in controlled environment rooms at 22°C under either LDs (10 h light/6 h day extension/8 h dark) or SDs (10 h light/14 h dark) as described (CITATION), unless specified otherwise. Flowering time was scored by growing plants on soil in LD and SD and counting the number of rosette and cauline leaves on the main stem. Data are presented as mean ± se (n = 8 to 18). Measurement of flowering time was done at least twice with similar results. Double and triple mutants were usually made by crossing lines homozygous for each mutation. Further information on the construction of double and triple mutants can be obtained from the authors. For LL and DD experiments, plants were grown on GM agar plates with sucrose at 22°C under LDs (16 h light/8 h dark) for 8 d, then transferred to LL or DD at dawn, and whole plants were used for RNA preparation as described (CITATION). For SD experiments, plants were grown on soil for 10 d, and aerial parts were used for RNA preparation. RNA gel blot analysis was performed as described by CITATION. RT-PCR was performed with 1 μg of total RNA using a SuperScript first-strand synthesis system for RT-PCR (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). cDNAs were diluted to 100 μL with TE buffer, and 1 μL of diluted cDNA was used for PCR amplification by TaKaRa Ex Taq (TaKaRa, Shiga, Japan). For RT-PCR expression studies, the following primers were used: GI, 5′-CTGTCTTTCTCCGTTGTTTCACTGT-3′ and 5′-TCATTCCGTTCTTCTCTGTTGTTGG-3′ (this work); CO, 5′-ACGCCATCAGCGAGTTCC-3′ and 5′-AAATGTATGCGTTATGGTTAATGG-3′ (CITATION); FT, 5′-ACAACTGGAACAACCTTTGGCAATG-3′ and 5′-ACTATATAGGCATCATCACCGTTCGTTACTCG-3′ (CITATION); CCR2, 5′-CTCTTGAGCTGCCTTCG-3′ and 5′-AGAACATTCATTGGTAATCCC-3′ (CITATION); FKF1, 5′-GTCGTAACTGTCGATTCCTACA-3′ and 5′- ATCTCCAGTGTTCCAGTTATCT-3′ (this work); TUB, 5′-CTCAAGAGGTTCTCAGCAGTA-3′ and 5′-TCACCTTCTTCATCCGCAGTT-3′ (CITATION). Numbers of PCR cycles were as follows: 20 cycles for GI and FKF1, 25 cycles for CO and FT, 15 cycles for CCR2, and 18 cycles for TUB. Annealing temperature was 55°C for GI, 57°C for FT and CCR2, 60°C for CO and TUB, and 62°C for FKF1. Primer specificity was verified by sequencing the PCR products. The PCR products were separated on 1.5% agarose gels and transferred to Biodyne B membranes (Nippon Genetics, Tokyo, Japan). The RT-PCR products were cloned by pGEM-T Easy Vector System I (Promega, Madison, WI), and plasmids were extracted to be templates for PCR to amplify probe DNA. The membranes were hybridized with radioactive probe DNAs in hybridization solution that contained 5× SSC (1× SSC is 0.15 M NaCl and 0.015 M sodium citrate), 0.1% SDS, 0.1% sarkosyl, 0.75% Blocking reagent (Boehringer Mannheim, Mannheim, Germany), and 5% dextran sulfate sodium salt at 65°C for 16 h. The blot was washed with 2× SSC and 0.1% SDS for 20 min, then 0.5× SSC and 0.1% SDS for 10 min at 65°C, and then the hybridization signal was visualized using the BioImaging Analyzer (BAS 5000; Fuji Photo Film, Tokyo, Japan); signal intensity was quantified with Science Lab 98 Image Gauge software (version 3.1; Fuji Photo Film). Values were represented relative to the highest value of the samples after standardization to the TUB control. All the RT-PCR analysis was performed at least twice and usually with independent RNA samples. T2 generation plants from independent CCR2:LUC transformant lines were used for the analysis of luminescence and period length. Seven-day-old plants grown on agar in SD and LD were transferred into agar-filled wells of 96-well opaque microtiter plates and treated with 20 μL 5 mM d-luciferin per plant (n ≥ 24). From the next day, the luminescence of individual seedlings was measured by counting in a Packard Topcount (Packard, Meriden, CT). The average luminescence for each genotype at each time point was calculated from the luminescence normalized for each emitting individual. The period length of free running cycles was estimated from at least 96 h of luminescence measurements starting 24 h after transfer into LL or 12 h into DD using FFT-NLLS software (CITATION). In the red light fluence response experiments, seeds were placed on GM agar plates without sucrose, kept 5 d in the dark at 4°C, exposed to 6 h of white light then 18 h of darkness, and then seedlings were grown either in DD or in E30-LED cabinets (Percival Scientific, Perry, Iowa) with red LED light (670 nm) filtered through layers of neutral density filters (Filter 299; Lee Filters, Andover, UK) to obtain different red light intensities (0.06, 0.71, 10.88, and 84.68 μmol m−2 s−1). After 5 d, the seeds were placed flat on agar plates, and their hypocotyl lengths measured with MetaMorph imaging software (Universal Imaging, Downington, PA). The hypocotyl length of each red light–grown seedling was divided by the mean hypocotyl length of the seedlings grown in DD, to avoid difficulties with uneven germination, as described (CITATION). The data presented are the mean ± se of the pooled standardized measurements (n = 60) from three independent experiments. In the SD experiments, seeds were placed on agar plates in SD conditions (8 h light/16 h dark). Light was provided by Philips TL741 tubes (Eindhoven, The Netherlands) giving photosynthetically active radiation of 48 μmol m−2 s−1. Hypocotyl length was measured after 10 d, and the mean value ± se was calculated (n = 80 for each genotype). Effects of light intensity and genotype were analyzed using two-way analysis of variance as part of the Sigmastat 3.0 software (SPSS ASC, Erkrath, Germany). The hypocotyls of 8-d-old transgenic 35S:GI:GFP gi-3 seedlings grown on GM agar plates under LD conditions were analyzed using a Zeiss LSM 510 Meta confocal laser scanning microscope (Jena, Germany). Confocal images were collected using the 63× oil-immersion lens. Excitation of fluorescence was at 488 nm with an argon laser, and the GFP fluorescence was detected at 500 to 530 nm and the autofluorescence of mainly chlorophyll from 602 to 709 nm. Simultaneously, transmission images were taken using the 543-nm HeNe laser. For emission spectral fingerprinting at 488 nm excitation (argon laser), lambda stacks were recorded with the Meta detector (Zeiss) between 494.7 and 591 nm in 10.7-nm steps. Emission spectra of GFP, of the green fluorescent chloroplast component(s), and of the background were measured in respective regions of the lambda stacks and selected for the linear unmixing calculation.
