!~ABS~! In mammals, electron-transfer flavoprotein:ubiquinone oxidoreductase (ETFQO) and electron-transfer flavoprotein (ETF) are functionally associated, and ETF accepts electrons from at least nine mitochondrial matrix flavoprotein dehydrogenases and transfers them to ubiquinone in the inner mitochondrial membrane. In addition, the mammalian ETF/ETFQO system plays a key role in β-oxidation of fatty acids and catabolism of amino acids and choline. By contrast, nothing is known of the function of ETF and ETFQO in plants. Sequence analysis of the unique Arabidopsis thaliana homologue of ETFQO revealed high similarity to the mammalian ETFQO protein. Moreover, green fluorescent protein cellular localization experiments suggested a mitochondrial location for this protein. RNA gel blot analysis revealed that Arabidopsis ETFQO transcripts accumulated in long-term dark-treated leaves. Analysis of three independent insertional mutants of Arabidopsis ETFQO revealed a dramatic reduction in their ability to withstand extended darkness, resulting in senescence and death within 10 d after transfer, whereas wild-type plants remained viable for at least 15 d. Metabolite profiling of dark-treated leaves of the wild type and mutants revealed a dramatic decline in sugar levels. In contrast with the wild type, the mutants demonstrated a significant accumulation of several amino acids, an intermediate of Leu catabolism, and, strikingly, high-level accumulation of phytanoyl-CoA. These data demonstrate the involvement of a mitochondrial protein, ETFQO, in the catabolism of Leu and potentially of other amino acids in higher plants and also imply a novel role for this protein in the chlorophyll degradation pathway activated during dark-induced senescence and sugar starvation.
!~RES~! We have identified a homologue of ETFQO in the Arabidopsis genome, designated as ETFQO (At2g43400), that encodes a protein with 70% similarity to human ETFQO (accession number Q16134). The mammalian ETFQO is a unique integral membrane protein containing one equivalent of flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) and a [4Fe-4S]2+1+ cluster (CITATION), characteristics shared with the Arabidopsis ETFQO. The N-terminal sequence of the Arabidopsis ETFQO protein has characteristics consistent with that of a mitochondrial transit peptide and is predicted to target ETFQO to the mitochondrion by the three targeting prediction programs Predotar (http://genoplante-info.infobiogen.fr/predotar/), MitoProt II (CITATION), and PSORT (CITATION), consistent with the location of mammalian ETFQO in mitochondria. Alignment of the amino acid sequence of Arabidopsis ETFQO to homologues from bacteria to human shows a high overall similarity, including a putative FAD binding domain and [4Fe-4S]2+1+ cluster domain (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Taken together, the above observations give strong support to our claim that Arabidopsis ETFQO is a functional homologue of ETFQO from other organisms. In order to confirm the in vivo subcellular localization of Arabidopsis ETFQO, a full-length cDNA fragment was fused to the cDNA of GFP (Figure 1A). The cDNA fusion construct was subcloned downstream of the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S RNA promoter and transformed into Arabidopsis. Five-day-old seedlings of stable transformants were incubated with MitoTracker Orange for specific staining of mitochondria. Inspection of the seedlings transformed with the Pro35S:ETFQO:GFP construct by confocal microscopy revealed that the GFP fluorescence within root cells was restricted to numerous spherical or elongated bodies, which correspond well with mitochondrial morphology (Figures 1B to 1D). The colocalization of the MitoTracker Orange dye and the GFP signal in root cells confirmed mitochondrial targeting of the ETFQO:GFP fusion protein (Figures 1B to 1D). These data clearly demonstrate the mitochondrial targeting of the ETFQO:GFP fusion protein in vivo and thus establish the mitochondrial localization of the ETFQO in Arabidopsis. [[FIGURE]] The ETFQO gene is represented on the Affymetrix ATH1 Genome Array, and analysis of microarray data stored in the GENEVESTIGATOR database (CITATION) revealed that ETFQO transcripts are expressed constitutively at a low level in all plant tissues and developmental states, including leaf senescence (CITATION); however, intriguingly, it was highly expressed in dark-induced senescent leaves (CITATION), senescent cell cultures (CITATION), and sucrose-starved cell cultures (CITATION). RNA gel blot analysis confirmed that ETFQO expression was not significantly induced during normal developmental senescence (data not shown). To further investigate regulation of ETFQO, transcript levels were measured in 4-week-old Arabidopsis leaves following transfer to darkness by RNA gel blot analysis. During dark adaptation, the transcripts from a light-regulated photosynthetic gene, Cab4, gradually declined (Figure 2) (CITATION), whereas the ETFQO transcripts accumulated to very high levels (Figure 2). As a positive control, the transcript levels of the isovaleryl-CoA dehydrogenase gene (IVD) and the E1α subunit of branched-chain α-keto dehydrogenase gene (BCKDH), which have previously been shown to be induced by sucrose starvation (CITATION; CITATION), were analyzed. The IVD and BCKDH transcripts also accumulated in the dark-adapted leaves (Figure 2), suggesting that expression of the ETFQO gene is also induced by sucrose starvation following prolonged darkness. [[FIGURE]] To investigate the in vivo functions of the ETFQO protein, three independent Arabidopsis lines containing T-DNA or dissociation (Ds) transposon element insertional mutations of ETFQO were isolated. Segregation of the encoded resistance markers of all three insertion elements were in good agreement with the 3:1 (resistant:susceptible) ratio, suggesting insertion at a single Mendelian locus. Homozygous lines for each mutant were confirmed by genomic PCR and designated etfqo-1, etfqo-2, and etfqo-3, respectively (Figure 3A), and the respective sites of insertion of these mutants were confirmed by sequencing PCR products amplified from each mutant. [[FIGURE]] As described above, ETFQO contains a putative [4Fe-4S]2+1+ cluster domain near its C terminus that is likely to be required for electron flow from flavin to ubiquinone. In all three mutant lines, the insertional element is positioned upstream of the putative [4Fe-4S]2+1+ cluster, and it would be anticipated that this would severely compromise its electron transfer capacity and so result in a complete loss of functional protein. RT-PCR using primer pairs designated to span the T-DNA insertion site of each mutant locus was used to investigate ETFQO transcription. The Arabidopsis β-tubulin gene was used as a control to demonstrate the integrity of the RNA preparation. ETFQO mRNAs were detected in the wild type (Columbia-0 [Col-0] and Landsberg erecta [Ler-0]) using the primer sets L1/R1 and L2/R2. In etfqo-1, ETFQO transcripts were detected using the L2/R2 primer set; however, no amplification products were observed for the transcripts using the L1/R1 primer set. In etfqo-2 and etfqo-3, amplification products were not detected using either the L1/R1 or L2/R2 primer set (Figure 3B). These results confirmed that transcripts spanning the T-DNA insertion site, and downstream of the T-DNA insertion, are absent in all these mutant lines. After the molecular identity of the T-DNA insertional mutants was established, they were grown in soil under long-day conditions alongside the corresponding wild-type controls. Under these conditions, there was no visible phenotype in the mutants during the early stage of vegetative growth; however, in the reproductive stage, etfqo-1 and etfqo-2 plants often produced shorter siliques with a lower number of seeds than the corresponding wild type, whereas etfqo-3 had siliques with length and number of seeds similar to the wild type (see Supplemental Table 1 online). This difference might be due to the fact that the etfqo-3 mutant is in a different wild-type strain background (Ler-0) from etfqo-1 and etfqo-2 (Col-0). From crosses using wild-type pollen as the male parent and etfqo-1 and etfqo-2 as female parents, shorter siliques with lower seed set were produced, whereas crosses using pollen from etfqo-1 and etfqo-2 to create crosses with wild-type plants as female parent produced normal siliques with seed number similar to wild-type siliques, suggesting an effect of the ETFQO defect on the development of female gametophyte cells (see Supplemental Table 2 online). When 5-week-old etfqo mutants grown under short-day conditions were transferred to dark conditions, a dramatic phenotype became apparent. All of the homozygous mutant lines started to wilt and show signs of senescence after 10 d of continuous darkness and were apparently dead after 15 d of continuous darkness, whereas both wild-type ecotypes are still alive after 15 d of continuous darkness and show only limited signs of senescence (Figure 4A). To further investigate this apparent accelerated senescence in the etfqo mutants, we measured two parameters related to the function of chloroplasts, chlorophyll content and photochemical efficiency (maximum variable fluorescence/maximum yield of fluorescence [Fv/Fm]), as diagnostics for leaf senescence (CITATION). During extended dark conditions, chlorophyll content declined more rapidly in etfqo mutants than in the wild type (Figure 4B), and the decline of chlorophyll content was accompanied by a decrease in the photochemical efficiency of photosystem II (PSII) (Fv/Fm) (Figure 4C). This result indicates that the process of senescence is more rapid in etfqo mutants than wild-type plants during extended dark conditions. [[FIGURE]] In order to confirm that the phenotypes of the mutant plants were caused by mutations in ETFQO, a CaMV 35S promoter–driven ETFQO open reading frame (ORF) was introduced into the etfqo-1 mutant (designated as etfqo-1/OE line) and shown to completely reverse the partial sterility and prevent the accelerated senescence phenotype observed in the etfqo-1 mutant line (Figure 4A; see Supplemental Table 1 online). In mammals, defects in ETFQO result in a functional deficiency of mitochondrial flavoprotein dehydrogenases and accumulation of their substrates (CITATION). To gain further insight into the role of the ETFQO protein in Arabidopsis, we used the method of CITATION to analyze changes in acyl-CoAs in the wild type and etfqo mutants during the extended dark treatment. The results shown in Figure 5 demonstrate a dramatic increase in the amount of five-carbon acyl-CoA in the etfqo-1 and etfqo-2 mutants compared with the wild type during the extended dark period. There were four candidates in Arabidopsis for the five-carbon acyl-CoA compounds: isovaleryl-CoA (3-methyl-butyryl-CoA), 2-methyl-butyryl-CoA, valeryl-CoA, and acetoacetyl-CoA. However, the retention time of synthetic acetoacetyl-etheno-CoA was earlier than the five-carbon acyl-CoA peak (data not shown), eliminating acetoacetyl-CoA as a candidate for the peak. Furthermore, given the improved resolution among peaks in the short-chain acyl-CoA region by HPLC using the Hypercarb porous graphitic carbon column, we could successfully discriminate this five-carbon acyl-CoA peak from valeryl-CoA and 2-methyl-butyryl-CoA, and identified this peak as isovaleryl-CoA (Figure 5B). Isovaleryl-CoA is an intermediate of the Leu catabolic pathway, being subsequently dehydrogenated to 3-methylcrotonyl-CoA by isovaleryl-CoA dehydrogenase. In animals, ETF is the physiological electron acceptor of isovaleryl-CoA dehydrogenase (CITATION). These results suggest a similar interaction of isovaleryl-CoA dehydrogenase, ETF, and ETFQO in Arabidopsis. [[FIGURE]] Acyl-CoA profiles from both etfqo-1 and etfqo-2 mutants from the 7- and 10-d extended dark treatments also showed dramatically increased content of a compound that had the same mass as the straight-chain eicosanoyl (20:0)-CoA, but which had a different retention time from the 20:0-CoA peak in the standard mixture. The retention time of this unknown acyl-CoA peak from the etfqo-1 mutant was identical to synthetic phytanoyl-CoA (Figure 6A), and both shared the same molecular mass and diagnostic acyl-CoA–specific fragmentation pattern when analyzed by liquid chromatography–mass spectrometry (LC-MS) (data not shown). Unfortunately, LC-MS fragmentation did not provide any information on the branching pattern of the acyl chain and so could not distinguish 20:0-CoA from phytanoyl-CoA. Therefore, in order to further confirm the identity of this unknown peak, it was purified in bulk, transmethylated, and analyzed by gas chromatography–mass spectrometry (GC-MS). The mass spectrum of the transmethylated peak was distinguishable from that of eicosanoic acid methyl ester but matched well with that of phytanic acid methyl ester, which displayed an electron-impact fragmentation spectrum expected for methyl-branched acyl chains (Figure 6B). From these results, the accumulated unknown peak near 20:0 acyl-CoA was unequivocally identified as phytanoyl-CoA. During extended dark treatment, etfqo-1 and etfqo-2 mutants contained dramatically increased concentrations of phytanoyl-CoA relative to the wild type (Figures 4B and 6A). However, analysis of leaf lipid fatty acids by GC showed no measurable increase in phytanic acid during the extended dark treatment (data not shown). In humans, phytanoyl-CoA is a known breakdown product of phytol, the hydrophobic tail of chlorophylls a and b. That said, relatively little is currently known about the exact mechanism of phytol or chlorophyll degradation in plants (CITATION; CITATION); however, our data suggest that Arabidopsis ETFQO is involved in phytol degradation. [[FIGURE]] Further characterization of the accelerated senescence phenotype in etfqo mutants was performed using a nonbiased GC-MS metabolic profiling protocol allowing the simultaneous determination of >100 compounds (CITATION) As was expected, the extended dark treatment led to a rapid decline in sucrose and other sugar contents in both the wild type and etfqo-1 (Figure 7). Most free amino acids increased significantly in both the wild type and etfqo-1, including, Leu, Isle, Val, Asn, Arg, Trp, and Phe, suggesting that protein degradation was elevated under these conditions (Figure 7). The significantly elevated levels of several amino acids, especially Leu and Trp, in the etfqo mutants suggest involvement of ETFQO in their degradation pathways. Analysis of tricarboxy acid (TCA) cycle intermediates showed a dramatic increase in succinate, fumarate, and malate in etfqo-1 at 7 and 10 d dark treatment (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). While these accumulations are striking, the exact mechanism underlying this phenomenon cannot be elucidated from the results in this study. There are two possible explanations for the progressive accumulation of these metabolites. First, it is conceivable that the TCA cycle is progressively upregulated in the mutant, during the course of the extended darkness, in an attempt to compensate for the reduced availability of respiratory substrate. Secondly, the accumulation of TCA cycle intermediates may be a consequence of a general downregulation of biosynthesis that would be anticipated under conditions of carbon starvation. While we favor the second hypothesis, further experimentation, including direct measurements of fluxes within the constituent pathways, will ultimately be required in order to fully comprehend these data. Interestingly, Glu and pyroglutamic acid concentrations declined in etfqo-1 at 7 to 10 d, whereas they increased in the wild type (Figure 7; see Supplemental Figure 2 online). It has been suggested, in sucrose starvation experiments, that amino acid catabolism is activated and supplies respiratory substrates to the TCA cycle (CITATION); however, in etfqo-1, one or more amino acid catabolic pathways appear to be blocked. One possible consequence of this block could be an overactivation of Glu catabolism in order to compensate for the shortfall of respiratory substrate. Furthermore, accumulation of uracil and ribose in etfqo-1 in the 10-d dark treatment suggests that RNA degradation was activated in etfqo mutants at this stage, and this is most probably associated with the process of cell death (data not shown). The above observations were all made by analyzing data on the basis of specific metabolites; however, interesting features of the data also emerge when the entire metabolite profiles are considered. While the majority of the metabolite levels, in the etfqo-1 mutant, exhibit monophasic behavior with respect to time in continuous darkness, a subset of metabolites, such as Gln, Gly, oxyproline, Pro, mannose and trehalose, exhibit biphasic behavior. It is tempting to speculate that monophasic responses are observed for the metabolites more intimately related to the reactions catalyzed by ETFQO, while the biphasic responses are probably secondary effects arising from the extreme stress that the etfqo mutants are under following longer periods of darkness. However, further experimentation will be required to determine whether this is indeed the case. Future work should also include characterization of mannose and trehalose metabolism in these lines, since both of these carbohydrates increase following extensive periods in continuous darkness despite initially decreasing. It is important to note that although the data presented here were solely determined from etfqo-1, essentially the same results were obtained from analysis of a second mutant (etfqo-2). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana seeds were surface-sterilized and imbibed for 4 d at 4°C in the dark on 0.8% (w/v) agar plates containing half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) media (Sigma-Aldrich; pH 5.7). Seeds were subsequently germinated and grown at 22°C under long-day conditions (16 h light/8 h dark) with 150 μmol m−2 s−1 white light. For examination of phenotype in the long-day treatment, seedlings were transferred to soil 7 to 10 d after germination and placed in a growth chamber at 22°C under long-day conditions (16 h light/8 h dark). For dark treatments, 7- to 10-d-old seedlings were transferred to soil and then grown at 22°C under short-day conditions (8 h light/16 h dark) for 4 weeks. Following bolting, plants were grown at 22°C in the dark in the same growth cabinet. The fully expanded, 7th to 12th, rosette leaves were harvested at intervals of 0, 3, 7, and 10 d from control and dark-grown plants for the subsequent experiments. Total RNA was isolated from light-grown control, from dark-treated leaves, and from cell suspension culture using the TRIzol reagent (Invitrogen). cDNA fragments for ETFQO, IVD, the E1α subunit of BCKDH, chlorophyll a/b binding protein (Cab4), and nitrate reductase (NR2), were amplified from Arabidopsis cDNA by PCR. RNA was fractionated by electrophoresis on 1% (w/v) agarose gels, blotted onto positively charged nylon membrane, and hybridized at 65°C with the appropriate cDNA probes labeled with [α-32P]dCTP using the MegaPrime kit (Amarsham-Pharmacia). The hybridized membrane was washed for 1 h in a solution containing 2× SSC and 0.1% (w/v) SDS at 25°C followed by two washes with 0.1× SSC and 0.5% SDS at 55°C for 1 h. The three mutant lines, SALK T-DNA line SALK_007870 (etfqo-1, background ecotype Col), Syngenta Arabidopsis insertion line SAIL_91_E03 (etfqo-2, background ecotype Col), and John Innes Centre Gene Trap line GT_3_4705 (etfqo-3, background ecotype Ler) were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (University of Nottingham). The mutants were isolated according to published procedures: SIGnAL (CITATION), Syngenta SAIL line (CITATION), and John Innes Centre Gene Trap line (CITATION). Genotypes of the different knockout mutant lines were analyzed by PCR using primers specific for the ETFQO ORF (for etfqo-1, L1 5′-AAGGTGGTACCGTGCTTCAG-3′ and R1 5′-CACCACCTTCAGGCACTGTC-3′; for etfqo-2 and etfqo-3, L2 5′-AAAGCTATCTTCTTCTTCTTCACCA-3′ and R2 5′-GGTTGCAATCCCAACAACTT-3′) and primers specific for the insertion elements (for etfqo-1, LBa1 5′-TGGTTCACGTAGTGGGCCATCG-3′; for etfqo-2, TMR1_LB1 5′-GCCTTTTCAGAAATGGATAAATAGCCTTGCTTCC-3′; for etfqo-3, Ds3-1 5′-ACCCGACCGGATCGTATCGGT-3′ and Ds5-1 5′-GAAACGGTCGGGAAACTAGCTCTAC-3′). The full-length ORF including stop codon of ETFQO was amplified by RT-PCR from wild-type Arabidopsis (ecotype Col-0) and subcloned into the pH2GW7 vector (www.psb.ugent.be/gateway/) (CITATION) using the Gateway recombination system (Invitrogen). Heterozygous etfqo-1 mutant plants were subsequently transformed by Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated gene transfer utilizing the floral dip method (CITATION) because of the partial sterility exhibited by the homozygous etfqo-1 plant. Positive transformants were selected on half-strength MS medium containing 0.8% (w/v) agar and 30 μg/mL hygromycin. Homozygous etfqo-1 lines containing the CaMV 35S promoter–driven ETFQO ORF were characterized by genomic PCR using the primer set L1 and R1 described above in order to check the transformed ETFQO ORF and the primer set L1 and RI1 (5′-TTGTGCAGTGGATGGTTTTG-3′) in order to confirm that there was no amplification from a disrupted copy of ETFQO. The primer RI1 was designed on the basis of the intron sequence of ETFQO in order to eliminate amplification from the transformed ETFQO ORF. Total RNA was isolated from rosette leaves of 3 d dark-treated plants using TRIzol reagent. First-strand cDNA was synthesized from 10 μg of total RNA with Superscript II Rnase H− reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen) and oligo(dT) primer. PCR amplification of ETFQO cDNA-specific sequence was performed using primers specific for the ORF, L1 and R1 and L2 and R2, described above. PCR amplification of the cDNA encoding the β-tubulin of Arabidopsis (TUB9) with a forward primer (5′-GATATCTGTTTCCGTACCTTGAAGC-3′) and a reverse primer (5′-ACCGACTGTAGCATCTTGATATTGC-3′) served as a control. In order to generate CaMV 35S promoter–driven ETFQO:eGFP fusion protein constructs, the 1899-bp coding region of ETFQO was amplified by RT-PCR from wild-type Arabidopsis (ecotype Col-0) with primers flanked with attB1 and attB2 sites. The resultant sequence was then cloned into the entry vector pDONR201 by Gateway recombination (Invitrogen). This cloned sequence was then transferred from the pDONR201 vector to the pK7WFG2 vector (www.psb.ugent.be/gateway/) (CITATION) by Gateway recombination (Invitrogen). Wild-type Arabidopsis Col-0 was subsequently transformed by Agrobacterium-mediated gene transfer utilizing the floral dip method (CITATION). Positive transformants were selected on half-strength MS medium containing 0.8% (w/v) agar and 50 μg/mL kanamycin. Following selection, transformants were transferred to soil and seeds collected. The T2 generation was used for the observation of GFP fluorescence. Five-day-old seedlings were harvested into a freshly made staining solution of 200 nM CMTMRos (MitoTracker Orange; Molecular Probes) in half-strength MS medium and allowed to stain for 15 min at room temperature. After staining, the seedlings were submerged in a half-strength MS solution for 10 min. The T2 seedlings were visualized by confocal microscopy with a LSM510 confocal microscope (Zeiss) set to measure an emission band of 475 to 525 nm for GFP (excitation 488, emission 522) and an emission band of 565 to 615 nm for MitoTracker Orange CMTMRos (excitation 551, emission 576). Excitation for GFP was provided by the 458-nm line of a 25-mW argon laser and for MitoTracker by a 543-nm HeNe laser. The software LSM examiner (Zeiss) was used for postacquisition image processing. Several T2 generation lines for each construct were investigated, and all showed the same fluorescence pattern. For chlorophyll content, 20 mg of leaf tissue were frozen and ground in liquid nitrogen and extracted by heating in 1 mL of methanol at 65°C for 20 min. After clarification by centrifugation, the chlorophyll concentration per fresh weight of leaf tissue was calculated as described previously (CITATION). Photochemical efficiency was examined at the given time points for the dark treatment, using attached leaves of the wild type (Col-0) and etfqo mutants. The photochemical efficiency of PSII was deduced from the characteristics of chlorophyll fluorescence using a portable plant efficiency analyzer (Hansatech Instruments) (CITATION). The ratio of Fv to Fm, which corresponds to the potential quantum yield of the photochemical reactions of PSII, was used as the measure of the photochemical efficiency of PSII (CITATION). Ten-milligram portions of leaf material were frozen in liquid nitrogen and extracted for subsequent quantitative analysis of fluorescent acyl-etheno-CoA derivatives by HPLC with a LUNA 150 × 2 mm C18(2) column (Phenomenex) using the gradient conditions described previously (CITATION; CITATION). The lipid portion of the acyl-CoA extracts was transmethylated for fatty acid analysis by GC with flame ionization detection (CITATION). Commercially available phytanic acid (3,7,11,15-tetramethylhexadecanoic acid) (Sigma-Aldrich) was used to synthesize phytanic acid methyl ester by acidic transmethylation (CITATION). Phytanoyl-CoA, for use as an HPLC retention time standard, was enzymatically synthesized from phytanic acid using Pseudomonas acyl-CoA synthetase from Sigma-Aldrich (CITATION). Putative phytanoyl-CoA peaks from HPLC runs of synthetic and leaf extracts were further characterized by LC-MS to determine molecular weight and verify acyl-CoA specific fragmentation patterns (CITATION). Additional confirmation of phytanoyl-CoA identity was obtained by GC-MS analysis of collected HPLC fractions transmethylated to their fatty acid methyl esters. Putative phytanoyl-CoA fractions from 10-fold concentrated and derivatized extracts run on the HPLC were collected, dried under vacuum, and transmethylated with 500 μL 0.1 M sodium methoxide (Sigma-Aldrich) for 2 h at 85°C. The formed methyl ester was partitioned against 0.25 mL 0.9% (w/v) KCl and removed in 200 μL hexane. The hexane phase was dried under vacuum and reconstituted in 20 μL fresh hexane, and a 2 μL aliquot was analyzed by GC-MS as described previously (CITATION), with the exception that a ZB5 30 m × 0.25 mm i.d. × 0.25 μm film thickness capillary column (Phenomenex) was used. Short branched-chain acyl-CoA esters were commercially unavailable, and Pseudomonas acyl CoA synthetase was unable to catalyze the formation of short branched-chain acyl-CoA esters from branched-chain 5-carbon acids (Sigma-Aldrich). Instead, these were synthesized by the carbonyldiimidazole method (CITATION). The acyl-CoA products were derivatized to their etheno derivatives and characterized by LC-MS. In order to increase the resolution between the C5 isomers, a Hypercarb 100 × 3 mm porous graphitic carbon column (Thermo Hypersil) was used in place of the LUNA 150 × 2 mm C18(2) column, using the same gradient program. Metabolite analysis by GC-MS was performed by a method modified from that described by CITATION. Arabidopsis leaf tissue (∼180 mg) was homogenized using a mortar and pestle precooled with liquid nitrogen and extracted in 1400 μL of methanol, and 60 μL of internal standard (0.2 mg ribitol mL−1 water) was subsequently added as a quantification standard. The extraction, derivatization, standard addition, and sample injection were exactly as described previously (CITATION). The GC-MS system and settings were exactly as described by CITATION. Both chromatograms and mass spectra were evaluated using the MASSLAB program (ThermoQuest), and the resulting data were prepared and presented as described by CITATION. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under the following accession numbers: for Arabidopsis ETFQO, At2g43400; IVD, At3g45300; BCKDH, At1g21400; Cab4, At3g47470; NR2, At1g37130; TUB9, At4g20890; for rice OsETFQO, AAK39567; for human HsETFQO, Q16134; for rice MmETFQO, Q921G7; for fly DmETFQO, NP_610536; for worm CeETFQO, D88483; for yeast ScETFQO, Q08822; for protobacteria LpETFQO, YP_095306.
