!~ABS~! The RAC/ROP family of small GTPases are central regulators of important cellular processes in plants. AtRAC2/ROP7 is an ancient member of the RAC/ROP gene family in Arabidopsis thaliana whose functions are generally unknown. In order to study the spatial expression pattern of the AtRAC2/ROP7 gene, transgenic plants expressing GUS or GFP under the control of the AtRAC2/ROP7 promoter were analysed. Functional analysis of AtRAC2/ROP7 was done using transgenic plants overexpressing wild-type and constitutively activated AtRAC2/ROP7 (Val15Gly), and an AtRAC2/ROP7T-DNA insertion mutant. The AtRAC2/ROP7 promoter directs a highly specific xylem-specific expression in the root, hypocotyl, stem, and leaves. The expression is developmentally limited to the late stages of xylem differentiation, and coincides with the formation of secondary cell walls. Leaf epidermal cells of transgenic plants overexpressing constitutively active AtRAC2/ROP7 exhibited highly impaired lobe formation, suggesting that AtRAC2/ROP7 is able to regulate polar cell expansion. Finally, GFP-AtRAC2/ROP7 fusion proteins were localized to the plasma membrane. The results indicate a role for AtRAC2/ROP7 in the development of secondary cell walls of xylem vessels.
!~RES~! A gene fragment, 1.3 kb of the upstream promoter region of AtRAC2/ROP7 containing the first 24 bp of the coding sequence, was amplified using PCR from genomic DNA. The fragment was cloned into a vector, and the sequence was confirmed to be identical to the sequence published by the A. thaliana genome project (BAC MCL19, GenBank accession no. AB006698). The AtRAC2/ROP7 promoter was then cloned in binary vectors upstream of GUS or GFP5-ER (Fig. 1A, a, b), and the constructs were used for transformation of Arabidopsis plants. Homozygous lines were produced, and the DNA of these plants was confirmed to contain the correct construct by PCR of isolated DNA with primer pairs specific for each construct (results not shown).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In order to study the functional roles of AtRAC2/ROP7, transgenic plants overexpressing wild type or constitutively active AtRAC2/ROP7 (CA-atrac2/rop7) were produced. The AtRAC2/ROP7 overexpressing construct encompasses the complete coding sequence, including parts of the 5′- and 3′-UTR. Site-directed mutagenesis (Gly15Val) was used to produce constitutively activated AtRAC2/ROP7. Substitution of glycine with valine in position 15 of AtRAC2/ROP7 inactivates the intrinsic GTPase activity, thereby keeping the mutant protein permanently in its active, GTP-bound state. These constructs were expressed under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter (Fig. 1A, c, d). Several homozygous transgenic lines were obtained for each construct, and two lines showing similar phenotypic properties were chosen for more detailed analysis. A T-DNA insertion mutant of AtRAC2/ROP7 (atrac2/rop7-1) was obtained from the GABI-Kat collection (Rosso et al., 2003). T-DNA was inserted in the third exon of AtRAC2/ROP7, leading to the truncation of AtRAC2/ROP7 after 91 amino acids. Earlier studies indicated that AtRAC2/ROP7 is expressed at low levels (Winge et al., 1997). RT-PCR analysis showed that AtRAC2/ROP7 expression was absent in atrac2/rop7-1 and strongly increased in two CA-atrac2/rop7-expressing lines (Fig. 1B). DNA microarray experiments verified that CA-atrac2/rop7 expression levels were 20-fold up-regulated in the line CA-atrac2/rop7-4 compared with wild-type AtRAC2/ROP7 expression levels (results not shown). Transgenic AtRAC2/ROP7:GUS Arabidopsis plants were grown on both MS agar medium and soil, and the GUS expression pattern was analysed at all major developmental stages. GUS staining was generally observed to be stronger in plants grown on agar medium than in soil. Figure 2 shows the GUS activity patterns in roots, leaves and stems of AtRAC2/ROP7:GUS plants. In 1-d-old seedlings, GUS staining in roots was limited to two rows of cells along the root axis starting about 400 μm from the root tip, corresponding to the elongation zone. GUS-positive cells were observed in the region between the differentiation zone and the beginning of the hypocotyl (Fig. 2A). Upon closer inspection, GUS staining was localized to protoxylem. Importantly, AtRAC2/ROP7:GUS expression seemed developmentally to precede the appearance of helical secondary cell wall thickenings in protoxylem (Fig. 2B, arrow), indicating that AtRAC2/ROP7 expression might coincide with the onset of secondary cell wall synthesis. In Arabidopsis roots, the transition from early to later stages of differentiation is characterized by the appearance of metaxylem, which is identified on the basis of reticulate rather than helical secondary cell wall thickenings. The root xylem of 8-d-old Arabidopsis seedlings consists of two protoxylem vessels and two or three metaxylem vessels (Kobayashi et al., 2002). GUS staining in protoxylem and the outer metaxylem vessels usually overlapped (Fig. 2B), but staining in the outer and inner metaxylem was frequently observed to be spatially separated (Fig. 2C, D).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] GUS staining appeared in xylem vessels throughout the stem. A weak expression of GUS was also observed in the hypocotyl and petioles, as well as in discontinuous parts of the vascular tissue in young rosette leaves (Fig. 2E). In older leaves, GUS staining was barely detectable. GUS staining was repeatedly seen in vascular tissue at the junction between the hypocotyl and petioles of the most recently developed leaves (results not shown). No GUS staining was observed in the inflorescence, siliques or seeds (results not shown). Semi-thin sections were made from GUS-stained stems of AtRAC2/ROP7:GUS plants at different stages and counter-stained with safranin O to visualize cell structures. As evident from cross-sections, GUS-stained cells are located in the primary xylem bundles of young stem sections (Fig. 2F). The cells have partially thickened secondary cell walls compared with the adjacent mature xylem vessels, which is an indication of developing xylem cells that are in the process of producing secondary cell walls (Fig. 2G). Neighbouring cells also showed weak GUS staining; however, this staining probably resulted from leakage of the GUS enzyme or the X-gluc reaction product from the stained cell. In older, mature stem sections, GUS-positive cells were located adjacent to the procambium, as expected for developing xylem cells (Fig. 2I, arrowheads, and Fig. 2J). AtRAC2/ROP7:GUS stem cross-sections were also counter-stained with Maüle reagent, which stains the free syringyl units of lignin. GUS-positive cells in young stem sections showed weak or no staining with Maüle reagent, whereas mature xylem vessels were strongly stained, indicating that AtRAC2/ROP7 expression mainly precedes lignin synthesis at this stage (Fig. 2H). In older stem sections, GUS-positive cells showed variable Maüle staining (Fig. 2K). Overall, the GUS staining pattern suggests that the AtRAC2/ROP7 promoter is active during primary xylem development. AtRAC2/ROP7:GUS plants were exposed to a broad array of chemical and physical treatments to see if the AtRAC2/ROP7 promoter region could be induced or repressed. The treatments included exposure to plant hormones [gibberellic acid (GA3), cytokinin (benzylaminopurine), auxin (IAA), brassinosteroid (brassinolide), methyl jasmonate (MJA), and abscisic acid]; oxidative stress [hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), cadmium chloride (CdCl2), paraquat, and UV irradiation]; osmotic stress (glucose, mannitol, and NaCl); elicitors (oligogalacturonic acid and chitosan), and mechanical wounding. None of these treatments led to a notable increase or decrease in GUS staining intensity in AtRAC2/ROP7:GUS plants (results not shown). Thus, AtRAC2/ROP7 gene expression appears to be mainly developmentally regulated. GFP fluorescence close to the root tip of AtRAC2/ROP7:GFP plants was observed in two rows of cells, exhibiting a striated pattern due to the presence of secondary cell walls in GFP-expressing cells (Fig. 3A). Z-stack analysis of longitudinal optical slices through the root confirmed that the GFP fluorescence was restricted to two narrow files (Fig. 3A, inset). Fluorescence in all of the optical slices showed the same striated pattern, indicative of xylem elements. Similar to the results observed for the AtRAC2/ROP7:GUS construct, GFP positive cells closest to the root tip did not show any striated pattern (Fig. 3B, arrowheads), suggesting that initial AtRAC2/ROP7 expression may precede or coincide with secondary cell wall formation in the development of root xylem. The fluorescence observed in these less-differentiated cells was weak compared with cells with secondary cell walls. In older parts of the root, GFP fluorescence appeared in the central part of the root, corresponding to the metaxylem (results not shown). It was not possible to observe any noticeable GFP fluorescence in leaves.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Next atrac2/rop7-1 T-DNA insertion mutant plants, AtRAC2/ROP7 overexpressing plants, and CA-atrac2/rop7 overexpressing plants were investigated in order to gain functional information on AtRAC2/ROP7. Somewhat surprisingly, atrac2/rop7-1 plants did not display visible phenotypes in overall morphology or in composition and appearance of the vascular tissue (results not shown). Plants overexpressing AtRAC2/ROP7 also appeared normal (results not shown). By contrast, leaf elongation was markedly increased in CA-atrac2/rop7 overexpressing plants. The leaf blades of CA-atrac2/rop7 rosette leaves (Fig. 4B) were more oval-shaped compared with wild-type leaves (Fig. 4A). The differences in organ elongation might be the result of cell morphology alterations. Therefore epidermal cells of rosette leaves were examined using scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Mature wild-type pavement cells, positioned towards the tip of rosette leaves, are characterized by extended lobes (Fig. 4C), leading to a highly wavy cell outline. By contrast, mature pavement cells of CA-atrac2/rop7 plants exhibited a more regular cell shape with only a few reduced lobes (Fig. 4D). In order to quantify this property, the ratio of area (μm2) to perimeter (μm) of wild-type and mutant leaf pavement cells (n=185) was measured. Pavement cells in CA-atrac2/rop7 plants had significantly (P <0.001) lower area-to-perimeter ratios compared with wild-type and atrac2/rop7-1 plants (Fig. 4E), indicating a less-lobed cell outline of CA-atrac2/rop7 pavement cells. The average cell area of CA-atrac2/rop7 pavement cells was only slightly increased compared with wild-type pavement cells (Fig. 4F).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The subcellular localization of AtRAC2/ROP7 was also examined. To do this, GFP fusions of wild-type and constitutively activated AtRAC2/ROP7 (Fig. 1A, e, f) and generated transgenic plants stably expressing the GFP fusion proteins were constructed. Both GFP-AtRAC2/ROP7 (Fig. 5A) and GFP-CA-atrac2/rop7 (Fig. 5B) localized mainly to the plasma membrane of leaf pavement cells. The cell outline was visualized by the GFP fluorescence, and revealed that GFP-CA-atrac2/rop7 expressing pavement cells have less extended lobes, thereby substantiating the observed phenotype of CA-atrac2/rop7 expressing plants. The changed cell morphology indicates that the GFP-CA-atrac2/rop7 fusion protein is functionally active.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! All experiments in this study involve Arabidopsis thaliana, ecotype Columbia (Col-0). The atrac2/rop7-1 mutant (line 212D04) was obtained from the GABI-Kat T-DNA insertion mutant collection (Rosso et al., 2003). Seeds were sterilized according to standard procedures. Plants were grown aseptically on agar medium containing MS basal salt mixture (Sigma), 3% (v/w) sucrose, and 0.7% (v/w) agar (pH 5.8) at 22 °C under a light regime of 16/8 h light/dark cycles and 700 μmol m−2 s−1 illumination. Plants were also grown in autoclaved soil under the same temperature and light/dark cycles, and 500–600 μmol m−2 s−1 illumination. Arabidopsis plants were transformed using Agrobacterium vacuum infiltration (Bechtold et al., 1993). Plants were grown on agar medium or in soil as described above. Specimens were fixated in ice-cold acetone for 3 min, incubated in 0.1 M sodium phosphate, pH 7.0 for 30 min, and subsequently submerged in a staining solution (0.1 M sodium phosphate pH 7.0, 1% (v/w) Triton X-100, 0.5 mM potassium ferricyanide, 0.5 mM potassium ferrocyanide, 10 mM disodium EDTA pH 8.0, and 0.2 mM X-gluc (Duchefa, Haarlem, Netherlands)). The samples were put under vacuum for 3 min and developed at 37 °C for 12 h. Chlorophyll was removed with ethanol (1× 70% (v/v), 3× 96% (v/v)). Small tissue blocks from 37-d-old plants were GUS-stained, and the tissue blocks were dehydrated and embedded in an acrylic resin (LR white, London Resin Company, London, UK) as described by Peleman et al. (1989). Semi-thin sections (2 μm) were stained with 2.0% (w/v) Safranin O for 20 s. Counter-staining with Maüle reagent was performed according to standard protocols. For visualization of leaf pavement cells, the fourth rosette leaf from 2-week-old plants grown in vitro was cleared with chloral hydrate as described by Hamada et al. (2000) and observed using phase-contrast microscopy (Nikon S800). Images were captured with a cooled SPOT CCD camera (Diagnostic Instruments, Sterling Heights, MI). The perimeter and area of pavement cells larger than 1000 μm2 were measured using analySIS 3.1 (Soft Imaging System, Münster, Germany). Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) was performed on a Hitachi 3000N fitted with a cold stage (Deben Research, Suffolk, UK). Plant tissue samples were placed on cover slips and mounted in water. Confocal laser scanning microscopy was performed on a Zeiss LSM510 (Zeiss, Jena, Germany). GFP fluorescence excited by Argon laser excitation light (488 nm) and DIC images were captured using LSM510 3.0 software. Digital images were processed in Adobe Photoshop 7.0 (Adobe, San Jose, CA). DNA was isolated from wild-type Arabidopsis plants with a modified minipreparation procedure adapted from Dellaporta et al. (1983). The AtRAC2/ROP7 promoter region was amplified by PCR with primers designed from the known upstream sequence of AtRAC2/ROP7 (GenBank accession no. AB006698), using Turbo Pfu (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA). The sense primer, A2H5 (5′-ACT TAA GCT TTA CGC AGT ATA ACC TC-3′), contained a HindIII site. The antisense primer, A2BM (5′-TCA GGA TCC TAA TGA ATC TTG CTG TGC TC-3′) incorporated a BamHI site in the PCR product. Digesting the PCR product with HindIII and BamHI produced a fragment of 1340 bp, which was separated in a low-melt agarose gel (SeaPlaque GTG; Cambrex, East Rutherford, NJ), excised, and low-melt ligated to the HindIII/BamHI sites of pBSK (Stratagene). The sequence of the fragment was confirmed by manual dideoxy cycle sequencing (Murray, 1989), with 33P-labelled dideoxynucleotides and Thermo Sequenase (APB). This plasmid was then cut with HindIII/BamHI and ligated to the HindIII/BamHI sites of two pBI101.3 plasmids (Clontech), replacing the 35S promoter. One of the plasmids contained the original GUS gene, while the other contained a modified version of enhanced GFP5-ER (Haseloff et al., 1997). An AtRAC2/ROP7 full-length cDNA was isolated from the Uni-ZAP XR cDNA library (Stratagene No. 937010) and cloned into a pBluescript (Stratagene) vector (Winge et al., 1997). The coding region of AtRAC2/ROP7 was amplified from the cDNA clone using the PCR primers A2XM (5′-GAA TTC TAG ACA AAA GCA AAG AAA ATG-3′) and A2SC (5′-GAC AGA GCT CTC GCC AAT AAC G-3′), which contained an XbaI and a SacI site, respectively. Site-directed mutagenesis of AtRAC2/ROP7 was conducted using the QuikChange kit (Stratagene). Two complementary PCR primers were used to introduce a substitution leading to a G15V mutation (the mutation is underlined): 5′-TGT CGG AGA TGT AGC AGT GG-3′ and 5′-CCA CTG CTA CAT CTC CGA CA-3′. The mutation site was confirmed by sequencing. AtRAC2/ROP7 and CA-atrac2/rop7 were then cloned into the XbaI and SacI sites of pBI121, downstream of the CaMV 35S promoter. For creation of GFP fusion proteins, an NcoI site was introduced at the start codon of AtRAC2/ROP7 and CA-atrac2/rop7, using the PCR primers A2Nco (5′-AAG ACC ATG GGC ACA GCA AGA TTC-3′) and A2SC. The introduction of the NcoI site also changed the second amino acid of AtRAC2/ROP7 from serine to glycine, but this mutation was not considered to affect the intracellular localization. AtRAC2/ROP7 and CA-atrac2/rop7 were subsequently cloned into the NcoI and SacI sites of a pBSK vector, in frame with a modified version of GFP5-ER in which the stop codon was replaced with an NcoI site. The resulting fusion protein construct was cloned into the XbaI and SacI sites of pBI121. mRNA was isolated from 3-week-old plants using Dynabeads mRNA DIRECT kit (Dynal, Oslo, Norway) according to the protocol of the manufacturer. Random-primed first-strand cDNA was made, using a first-strand cDNA synthesis kit (Fermentas) according to the manufacturer's instructions. The reaction mixture was subjected to PCR. For amplification of AtRAC2/ROP7, the primers A2K (5′-GAC AAA AGC AAA GAA AAT GAG CA-3′) and ARAC2C (5′-TGA TCT CTT AGT CTT CAA TGG T-3′) were used. The cytosolic glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase was co-amplified as a marker for comparison of expression levels using the primers GAPDH1F (5′-ATT ARG ATC GGA ATY AAC GG-3′) and (GAPDH1R, 5′-GTA ACC CCA YTC RTT GTC RTA-3′). The PCR profile was 94 °C for 30 s, 53 °C for 30 s and 72 °C for 1 min. For AtRAC2/ROP7 and GAPDH, 45 and 30 cycles of PCR amplification were used, respectively. PCR products were separated on a 1.5% agarose gel.
