!~ABS~! Recently, close relatives of class B floral homeotic genes, termed Bsister genes, have been identified in both angiosperms and gymnosperms. In contrast to the B genes themselves, Bsister genes are exclusively expressed in female reproductive organs, especially in the envelopes or integuments surrounding the ovules. This suggests an important ancient function in ovule or seed development for Bsister genes, which has been conserved for about 300 million years. However, investigation of the first loss-of-function mutant for a Bsister gene (ABS/TT16 from Arabidopsis) revealed only a weak phenotype affecting endothelium formation. Here, we present an analysis of two additional mutant alleles, which corroborates this weak phenotype. Transgenic plants that ectopically express ABS show changes in the growth and identity of floral organs, suggesting that ABS can interact with floral homeotic proteins. Yeast-two-hybrid and three-hybrid analyses indicated that ABS can form dimers with SEPALLATA (SEP) floral homeotic proteins and multimeric complexes that also include the AGAMOUS-like proteins SEEDSTICK (STK) or SHATTERPROOF1/2 (SHP1, SHP2). These data suggest that the formation of multimeric transcription factor complexes might be a general phenomenon among MIKC-type MADS-domain proteins in angiosperms. Heterodimerization of ABS with SEP3 was confirmed by gel retardation assays. Fusion proteins tagged with CFP (Cyan Fluorescent Protein) and YFP (Yellow Fluorescent Protein) in Arabidopsis protoplasts showed that ABS is localized in the nucleus. Phylogenetic analysis revealed the presence of a structurally deviant, but closely related, paralogue of ABS in the Arabidopsis genome. Thus the evolutionary developmental genetics of Bsister genes can probably only be understood as part of a complex and redundant gene network that may govern ovule formation in a conserved manner, which has yet to be fully explored.
!~RES~!  Arabidopsis abs mutants show structural defects in endothelium formation—the cell layer of the ovule in which PAs are specifically synthesized—and are affected in PA accumulation (Nesi et al. CITATION). To investigate whether the mutant alleles of ABS reported previously display the null mutant phenotype, novel knock-out alleles were identified by reverse genetics. Screening of the ZIGIA population of transposon insertion lines identified two lines, 7K66 and 7AAL63, which were analysed further. Line 7AAL63 harbours a transposon insertion in the third intron of the ABS locus (Fig.1). The transposon shows a large internal deletion and has a total length of only about 2.6 kb (data not shown). Line 7K66 carries an insertion in the 3′UTR, several bases downstream of the stop codon (Fig.1). In accordance with the nomenclature used by Nesi et al. (CITATION), we have termed the novel mutant alleles tt16 -4 (line 7K66) and tt16 -5 (7AAL63). The seeds of plants from both lines showed an unstable transparent testa phenotype, displaying a range of colours from a wild type like brown to yellowish with a dark brown micropylar and chalazal end (Fig.1). For two representative plants of each line the accumulation of precursors of PAs was tested by vanillin staining (Fig.1). Irregular patterns of staining similar to those observed in mature seeds were obtained and residual ‘background’ production of PAs in line 7K66 was observed after prolonged staining. In addition, seed anatomy was analysed by toluidine staining of sections of immature seeds (Fig.1). [[FIGURE]]  Sequencing of PCR-amplified alleles revealed multiple somatic excision events, indicating that the mosaic-like phenotype (Fig. 1e) might be due to the genetic instability of the insertion of the En transposable element at the ABS locus. Due to the formation of revertant sectors by somatic excision of the En element, a straightforward distinction between true heterozygotes and homozygotes was not possible. Aside from its genetic instability, the mutant phenotype of the two novel insertion alleles tt16-4 and tt16-5 almost perfectly matches that of previously described putative null alleles (Nesi et al. CITATION). These results suggest that the observed phenotype is very probably caused by the mutation in the ABS locus, although Southern analyses revealed the presence of approximately 8–10 copies of the En-transposon in both lines (data not shown). Moreover, the mutant phenotypes of the novel alleles strongly corroborate the view that the changes in seed colour and endothelial cell structure represent the null phenotype of ABS. We therefore chose not to investigate these lines further. To gain further insight into the function of ABS the analysis of loss-of-function mutants was complemented by a detailed investigation of transgenic gain-of-function lines, in which the ABS coding region was expressed under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. The expressivity and penetrance of the phenotypes in the T2 generation varied. A survey of the T2 generation of Basta-resistant T1 lines showed that, in this case, 21 of 44 lines showed a phenotype in the T2 generation (10 plants per T1 line were sown). The weaker phenotypes of 35S::ABS plants resembled those previously described by Nesi et al. (CITATION). We also observed stronger phenotypes, which have not been described previously. These are characterized by a strong curling of the leaves, infertility, and floral homeotic changes (Fig. 2a–f). Plants with a strong phenotype were usually smaller than wild-type plants. In contrast to wild type, flowers were open during all developmental stages, starting from bud initiation. Moreover, the developmental timing of relative organ growth was disturbed leading to enhanced growth of carpels relative to other organs. Frequently some of the inflorescence meristems of the plants terminated in a compound structure consisting of carpeloid and stamenoid organs (Fig. 2a, c, e, f), and bracts having mosaic structures, made up of carpeloid or stamenoid elements and vegetative parts (Fig. 2d, g). The infertility may have been caused partly by defects in stamen elongation at the stage of anthesis and partly by a decrease in the production of mature pollen (Fig. 2e, f, and unpublished observations). [[FIGURE]]  Flowers displaying strong phenotypes were further examined by scanning electron microscopy (Fig. 2i–n). Sepal cell structure was particularly strongly affected in these plants (Fig. 2j). The outer sepal surface of mature wild-type flowers consists of a mixture of long and short, irregularly shaped, epidermal cells (Fig. 2l), which become distinguishable from other cell types at stage 8 of flower development (Smyth et al. CITATION). In contrast, the cell pattern of 35S::ABS sepals is regular and more like the carpel type (Fig. 2j, k). The carpeloid nature of sepal organs in 35S::ABS plants is further supported by the occasional presence of stigmatic tissue on the margins (Fig. 2b). Ovules were rarely formed on sepals (Fig. 2a). Stigmatic tissue was also sometimes observed on the margins of some bracts in late-appearing parts of the inflorescence. Phenotypic analysis of 35S::ABS-MIK transgenic plants, which were transformed with constructs in which the region encoding the C-terminal domain of ABS was deleted, showed similar phenotypes (Fig. 2h, o). 35S::ABS-MIK plants displayed a curly leaf phenotype with early-opening flowers and, in some cases, partial homeotic transformations or terminal compound floral structures were observed (as in 35S::ABS plants). To investigate the sterility defects further, we analysed ovule development by staining ovule whole mounts from several siliques of two sterile T2 plants of 35S::ABS plants. The nucellus was present in most ovules, but the embryo sac was often aborted at a very early stage of development (Fig. 2q). The incidence of this phenotype was higher (50–80%) in later appearing flowers than in those that opened early. The integument structure appeared irregular in some cases. Fertility was tested by applying wild-type pollen to siliques. Less than half of the tested ovules developed into seeds (i.e. had a functional embryo sac). In the embryos that developed, maturation was often delayed and reduced amounts of endosperm were formed (data not shown). Expression analysis using RT-PCR showed a strong ABS signal in the vegetative organs of transgenic 35S::ABS T2 plants, while no expression was detected in rosette leaves of wild-type Arabidopsis plants (data not shown). We then analysed the expression of AG, STK, SHP1 and SHP2 in the 35S::ABS plants. SHP1, SHP2 and STK are MADS-box genes which have previously been shown to be required for ovule development, and produce comparable homeotic conversions of sepals into carpelloid organs when ectopically expressed (Favaro et al. CITATION). However, overexpression of SHP1 and SHP2 can additionally induce homeotic transformation of petals to stamens similar to AG (Pinyopich et al. CITATION). We also investigated the expression of AGL63, a closely related paralogue of ABS in Arabidopsis (see below). AG, STK and AGL63 did not show any significant increase in expression in rosette leaves of 35S::ABS transgenic plants (data not shown). A slight increase in expression level was observed in some lines for SHP1 and SHP2, but the effects of this weak expression in transgenic rosette leaves remain to be determined. It is likely that ectopic activation of these genes is more pronounced in the flower or inflorescence ‘background’, as has been observed in other transgenic plants that constitutively express AG-like genes and develop a phenotype that is similar to that of 35S::ABS plants (Favaro et al. CITATION). In summary, ectopic expression of ABS can affect the growth and identity of floral organs possibly by direct interaction with other floral homeotic genes (see below) or by ectopic activation of target genes. A number of previous studies revealed that MADS-domain proteins form dimers or higher-order complexes to carry out their functions in flower and ovule development (Honma and Goto CITATION; Theissen CITATION; Favaro et al. CITATION). The K-domain has been shown to function in protein interaction together with the MADS- and I-domains. The K-domain is characterized by three strings of heptad repeats [(abcdefg)n] with hydrophobic amino acids predominating in the a and d positions. They probably constitute interaction surfaces involved in the formation of coiled coils (Fan et al. CITATION; Yang et al. CITATION). The heptad repeats are named K1, K2 and K3 (Fig. 3). Here we generally defined the K-domain as including a sequence that has traditionally been assigned to the C domain, but is predicted to be part of the K3 α-helix (Yang and Jack CITATION). [[FIGURE]]  In order to search for dimerization partners of ABS a yeast-two-hybrid assay was performed by screening an Arabidopsis cDNA library with the complete ABS coding region as the bait. Among the 55 clones obtained, 23 were identified as SEP3, four as SEP2, three as SEP4 and one as SEP1; all these genes code for AGL2-like MADS-domain proteins (Fig. 3). Among the clones that gave weaker interaction signals, APETALA1 (the gene for AP1, a SQUA-like protein) was found four times (Fig. 3). As indicated in Fig. 3, the majority of SEP3 clones that were identified (18/23) were full-length or were missing only 2–14 codons at their 5′ ends and had minor deletions of 3′-terminal sequences (all in the sequence encoding the C-domain). Four of the expressed products started at amino acid (aa) position 71 in the I-domain, and one clone—which was among the strongest interactors—produced a protein consisting of domains K2 to C (starting at aa position 119 of the protein sequence) (Fig. 3). One of the clones had a deletion in the second half of K3, probably caused by a splicing defect that eliminated exon 6. The structures of all the identified SEP3, SEP1, SEP2 and AP1 segments produced by interacting clones are given in Fig. 3. The identified protein interactions were usually verified using full-length clones. For SEP1 and SEP3 in the bait vector, only clones that had C-terminal deletions were used in order to avoid autoactivation (Table 1). It was found that all tested interactions, except the one between SEP2 and ABS, worked in both directions (i.e., when cloned into bait or prey vector). The inability of the full-length SEP2 protein fused to the activation domain to interact with ABS is consistent with the fact that only N-terminally deleted versions were found in the screen (Fig. 3), suggesting a possible inhibitory effect of the MADS-domain on the interaction. This was only observed in one direction, however. Similar phenomena have been seen in other yeast-two-hybrid experiments with SEP2 (see, for example, Fornara et al. CITATION). Furthermore, very weak homodimerization of ABS was observed in a test for homomeric interaction (Table 1). [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] For the protein–protein interaction most frequently observed in the yeast-two-hybrid screen—between ABS and SEP3—the approximate minimal interaction domain of ABS was determined. For that purpose several deletion constructs were cloned into the two-hybrid vectors (Fig. 4). Fusion proteins comprising the GAL4 binding domain linked to ABS sequences lacking the MADS-domain showed autoactivation in yeast, as revealed by growth on plates lacking histidine and supplemented with 3 mM 3-AT. Clear evidence for autoactivation was found with clones containing the C-terminal domain. This may be related to the presence of glutamine-rich stretches in the highly divergent C-terminal part of ABS. Autoactivation was abolished when the C-terminal domain was deleted, as shown for a construct comprising the complete K-domain (K1–K3). In light of these findings, the interaction of domain-deletion versions of ABS with SEP3 was only tested in one direction, using ABS sequences fused to the GAL4 activation domain. The distribution of clones identified in this screen suggested the K-domain as the minimal interaction domain of SEP3 required for interaction with ABS (Fig. 3). For that reason we used a SEP3 construct encoding the I- and K-domains fused to the GAL4 binding domain. In the interaction tests we identified the distal part (basically consisting of K2 and K3) of the K-domain to be the minimal domain of ABS necessary for interaction with SEP3 (Fig. 4). Recently, Favaro et al. (CITATION) demonstrated the formation of higher-order complexes of MADS-domain proteins involved in ovule and carpel development. These protein complexes basically consist of combinations of SHP1, SHP2, STK (‘D class’) and AG (‘C class’) (all members of the AGAMOUS subfamily) and of the class E protein SEP3. As members of the AG clade have been shown to be expressed in ovules (see Discussion), we looked for evidence of a molecular interaction between ABS and members of the AG clade in ternary complexes containing SEP3, since no dimerization between ABS and AG occurs in yeast-two-hybrid experiments (data not shown). The full-length coding region of SEP3 was cloned into the ternary vector pTFT1. We screened at 28°C and 22°C, because previous studies have shown that higher-order interactions of Arabidopsis MIKC-type proteins are more stable at lower temperatures (Honma and Goto CITATION). We identified a STK-SEP3-ABS interaction at both 28°C (data not shown) and 22°C (Fig. 5). At 22°C we also identified a putative complex consisting of SHP1, SEP3 and ABS, and—much weaker—evidence for SHP2-SEP3-ABS (Fig. 5). Furthermore, interaction of STK-SEP3-ABSΔC was detected at 22°C, but not at 28°C, indicating that the C-terminus of ABS is not essential for the formation of higher-order complexes at 22°C, but enhances the interaction or stability of the complex at higher temperatures (Fig. 5). [[FIGURE]]  Previous analyses and structural data have shown that MADS-domain proteins bind to specific DNA sequences (CArG-boxes; consensus CC[A/T]6GG) as dimers (reviewed in Kaufmann et al. CITATION). However, not all protein complexes that have been identified in yeast-two-hybrid or co-immunoprecipitation experiments have been shown to be capable of DNA binding (see, for example, Riechmann et al. CITATION). To learn more about the nature of the interactions between ABS and SEP proteins we tested whether the ABS-SEP3 dimer is able to bind specifically to CArG-box DNA. This experiment also served as an independent control of the results obtained in the yeast-two-hybrid system. First we analysed the DNA-binding capacity of ABS and SEP3 separately. Like most MIKC-type proteins analysed so far, both ABS and SEP3 could bind to the DNA probes as homodimers. However, ABS bound less strongly to the CArG-box than SEP3 (Fig. 6a). Binding of labelled probe by ABS or SEP3 could be abolished almost completely by adding a 100-fold excess of unlabelled CArG-box containing DNA, but not CArG-box-free DNA to the reaction, thus revealing the specificity of these proteins for the CArG-box. In contrast, the ABS-MIK protein, in which the C-terminus of the protein was deleted, was very seriously impaired in binding to DNA on its own (Fig. 6b), owing to defects in DNA-binding or dimerization. DNA-binding was not completely abolished, however (Fig. 6b). When an excess of SEP3 was expressed in the presence of ABS-MIK and CArG-box DNA, two retarded bands were detected: the upper band corresponded to the SEP3 homodimer and the lower to the SEP3-ABSMIK heterodimer (Fig. 6c). Thus the SEP3-ABS heterodimer detected in yeast-two hybrid experiments is able to bind to DNA. The CArG-box used in our experiments, the sequence of which matches the AG and AGL2 DNA recognition consensus sequences (Huang et al. CITATION) almost perfectly, appeared to bind more strongly to the heterodimer than to the ABS homodimer. [[FIGURE]]  Binding to the mutCArG-box, which has a single A−>G substitution in the A/T core of the CArG sequence, was weaker but still detectable (Fig. 6c). That MADS-domain proteins can bind to CArG-boxes whose sequences deviate slightly from the consensus has been shown previously (Gomez-Mena et al. CITATION). Addition of unlabelled CArG-box DNA significantly reduced the amount of labelled DNA that was shifted, while the addition of unlabelled CArG-box free DNA did not lead to a reduction in the level of shifted probe (Fig. 6c, last two lanes), demonstrating that the SEP3/ABSMIK heterodimer binds specifically to the CArG-box. MIKC-type MADS-domain proteins are assumed to function in transcriptional regulation in the nucleus. We therefore tested whether ABS is indeed localized in the nucleus. Fusion proteins comprising ABS linked to the Yellow Fluorescent Protein (YFP) or the Cyan Fluorescent Protein (CFP) were expressed in Arabidopsis protoplasts under the control of the 35S promoter of the Cauliflower Mosaic Virus (CaMV). Investigation of the intracellular localization of the ABS::YFP and ABS::CFP proteins by confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) revealed that both types of fusion proteins are located almost exclusively in the nucleus, while expression of CFP or YFP alone led only to diffuse fluorescence in the cell (Fig. 7). SEP3::CFP, STK::CFP, AP1::CFP, SEP1::YFP and AGL3::YFP fusion proteins were also clearly localized in the nucleus (data not shown). These data demonstrate that all these proteins can enter the nucleus alone or together with factors that are present in the protoplasts used. [[FIGURE]]  In order to gain more insight into the evolutionary conservation of Bsister genes, phylogenetic and molecular evolutionary analysis were performed. An initial database screen for Bsister genes from other taxa was followed by phylogeny reconstructions. These analyses revealed the presence of two paralogous gene clades in the grass family (Poaceae) called the ZMM17 clade sensu stricto and the OsMADS31 clade. Representatives of both clades were found in rice (Oryza sativa), barley (Hordeum vulgare) and maize (Zea mays) (Fig. 8). In rice, a third paralogue is present, which seems to be more closely related to the ZMM17 clade than to the others (Fig. 8). Furthermore, AGL63 from Arabidopsis was identified as the most closely related paralogue of ABS in the Arabidopsis genome, in agreement with earlier indications (Parenicova et al. CITATION). AGL63 is an unusual gene, however, because it is characterized by a much faster rate of sequence evolution than ABS (as indicated by the longer branch length in the tree shown in Fig. 8) and by some deletions in the coding sequence. In their large-scale analysis of all Arabidopsis MADS-box genes, Parenicova et al. (CITATION) have shown that AGL63 is expressed in inflorescences and siliques and also in roots. We confirmed the expression in flowers, which was very weak, and could detect no expression in vegetative leaves (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~!  Arabidopsis thaliana (Heyn.) plants, ecotype Columbia-0 (Col-0),were grown in the greenhouse or in phytochambers in plastic trays filled with commercial soil mixture (type ED73; Werkverband) or with a ‘home-made’ mixture, composed of fertilized peat/vermiculite/sand (8:1:1). For stratification, seeds were kept on the soil for 3–4 days at 4°C in the dark and then cultivated under a 16-h-light/8-h-dark (long-day) photoperiod regime. A filter screen on an En-mutagenized population of Arabidopsis was performed by the ZIGIA Unit (MPIZ Cologne) as described by Steiner-Lange et al. (CITATION). Seven lines were identified in this screen and the presence of the transposon was confirmed with a PCR-based assay, using the gene-specific primers ABSWiscUni (5′-ATCCAACCTCAATCTCCGTTTCCAGAT-3′) and ABSWiscRev (5′-AGGTAATGGCCAATCTTCACTTCAAAACA-3′), which amplify a genomic fragment of approximately 2.5 kb, and the transposon-specific primers En205 and En8130 (Steiner-Lange et al. CITATION). The reaction parameters were as follows: 96°C for 5 min, followed by 36 cycles of 94°C for 15 s, 64°C for 30 s, and 72°C for 2 min, and a final extension step at 72°C for 10 min. PCR products containing putative transposon-flanking sequences were purified using the Qiagen PCR Product Purification kit, and then sequenced. Southern analysis using a 3′ terminal transposon fragment (En7630, En8164; Steiner-Lange et al. CITATION) as a probe was performed as described previously. The identification of excision events (revertant screen) was done using a PCR-based approach with primers that amplify a 200-bp region around the transposon insertion points in the ABS locus in the lines 7K66 and 7AAL63. PCR products were purified and sequenced directly or cloned into pGEM-T (Promega, Madison, WI, USA). The full-length ABS ORF was cloned into pRT100 (Töpfer et al. CITATION) via ApaI and BamHI restriction sites introduced by PCR using the primers ESTAPAuni (5′-GAAGAAGGGGCCCATGGGTAGAGGG-3′) and ESTBamRev (5′-ATTGAGGATCCTATTAATCATTCTGGG-3′). The construct containing the 35S promoter, the ORF and polyadenylation signal was subcloned into pBAR-A (G. Cardon, unpublished data) via EcoRI sites, as described in Winter et al. (CITATION). Arabidopsis transformation by the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101/pMP90 (using the floral-dip method) and selection for transgenic T1 plants using Basta was performed as described previously (Winter et al. CITATION). The 35S::ABS-MIK transgenic plants were generated in the same way. The MIK deletion construct encodes amino acids 1–173 of the ABS protein. Genomic PCR for amplification of both constructs from transgenic plants was performed using the primers CmV1 (5′-CTTGCATGCCTGCAGGTCAACATGG-3′) and PtM7 (3′-CACTGGATTTGGTTTTAGGAATTAG-5′). Southern analysis of DNA from pooled T2 plants of 35S::ABS-MIKC lines was performed using a radioactively labelled 300-bp fragment of the BAR gene as a probe, which was amplified using the primers 555 (5′-ACCTGCTGAAGTCCCTGGAGG-3′) and 557 (3′-AAAGAACGTGGACTCCAACGTCAAAG-5′). RT-PCR was performed using gene-specific primers for ABS, SHP1, SHP2, AG and AGL63 coding sequences. A binocular microscope (Leica, Wetzlar, Germany) equipped with a digital camera was used to take pictures of floral buds, flowers and siliques. Scanning electron microscopy was performed as described by Unte et al. (CITATION). Whole-mount staining of ovules was also carried out as previously published (Schneitz et al. CITATION). Ovules at stage 3 were fixed for 2 h and stained with Mayer’s haemalaun. For sections of immature seeds, the seeds were fixed for 16 h in fixation buffer (3.7% formaldehyde; 5% acetic acid; 1×PBS), dehydrated in an ethanol series and embedded in Technovit (Heraeus, Kulzer, Germany). Sections (4μm) were stained for several minutes with toluidine blue. Whole-mount vanillin staining was performed as described in Debeaujon et al. (CITATION). For yeast-two-hybrid analyses the GAL4-based Matchmaker System III (Clontech, San Jose, CA, USA) was used. The full-length ABS ORF was subcloned into the bait vector pGBKT7 using EcoRI and SalI restriction sites. The construct was then tested for autoactivation in yeast strains AH109 and Y187. For the interaction screen, the ABS::pGBKT7 construct was transformed into the yeast strain Y187. A mixed Arabidopsis cDNA library of randomly primed and polyA-tailed cDNAs from total plant tissues of A. thaliana was cloned into pGADT7-REC and transformed into the yeast strain AH109. The screen was carried out by mating the two strains according to the manufacturer’s instructions. About 52×106 diploids were obtained by mating. To screen for interacting proteins, diploids were spread on -Leu/-Trp/-His and -Leu/-Trp/-His/-Ade plates (both types supplemented with 3 mM 3-AT). Clones that grew on these selective plates within 3 days were picked and streaked on -Leu/-Trp/-His/-Ade plates containing 5 mM 3-AT and 10 mM 3-AT. A non-lethal β-galactosidase assay was performed (Duttweiler CITATION) and clones that developed a strong blue colour after 1 h were analysed further by PCR (Ling et al. CITATION) using vector primers to amplify the insert; the amplified product was then sequenced. Full-length clones and 3′-terminal deletion derivatives of the identified genes for putative interaction partners were cloned into pGBKT7 and pGADT7 and transformed into AH109 to confirm the interactions. All were routinely tested for autoactivation. Domain deletion constructs of ABS were analysed for interaction with SEP3-IK. Interaction could only be tested in one direction because some of the binding domain fusions showed autoactivation. Coding sequence fragments with artificial EcoRI and BamHI restriction sites and stop codons (where necessary) were obtained by PCR using modified primers; the additional sequences, plus 4–5 arbitrary bases which are required later for binding of the restriction enzyme, were attached to the 5′ ends of gene-specific primers. The following constructs were produced in pGADT7: ABS-MIK1 (encoding amino acids 1–114 of the protein sequence), ABS-K1-K3 (amino acids 87–176), ABS-K1-C (amino acids 87–stop), ABS-K2-K3 (amino acids 113–176) and ABS-K2-C (amino acids 113–stop). The constructs harboured either the natural stop codon or (in 3′-deleted versions) an artificial in-frame stop codon. The BD and AD constructs were cotransformed into AH109 and tested for interaction in a dilution series on SD-Leu/-Trp/-His plates containing 3 mM 3-AT. Constructs containing deletion derivatives of the ABS coding sequence in pGBKT7 were tested for autoactivation on SD-Trp-His containing 3 mM 3-AT. Ternary complex formation was tested using different combinations of ABS, SEP3 and SHP1, SHP2, STK or AG coding sequences transformed into pGBKT7, pGADT7 (Clontech) and pTFT1 (Egea-Cortines et al. CITATION). The pGBKT7 and pGADT7 constructs were cotransformed into AH109, pTFT1 constructs were transformed into Y187. After small-scale mating following the protocol of Causier and Davies (CITATION), the diploids were tested for interaction on -Leu/-Trp/-Ade/-His plates supplemented with 3 mM 3-AT, both at room temperature (22°C) and at 28°C for 6 days. In addition, a LacZ test was performed (Duttweiler CITATION). Dimerization under similar conditions was tested using the empty pTFT1 vector and the same combinations of BD and AD constructs. The ABSΔC::pGBKT7 construct encodes amino acids 1–171 of the ABS protein. Gel retardation assays were performed essentially as described by Winter et al. (CITATION). The ABS and ABS-MIK coding regions were cloned into the pSPUTK vector using BglII sites which were introduced by PCR. The full-length SEP3 coding sequence was cloned using NcoI and EcoRI restriction sites. We used a CArG-Box sequence from the second intron of AGAMOUS (Gomez-Mena et al. CITATION) as the probe (5′-GAAATTTAATTATATTCCAAATAAGGAAAGTATGGAACGTT-3′). We also tested a mutant version of this sequence (mutCArG; 5′-GAAATTTAATTATATTCCAAGTAAGGAAAGTATGGAACGTT-3′). The probes were biotinylated at their 5′ ends, and 20 fmol of probe was used per lane. For competition experiments, unlabelled CArG-box-containing DNA, or control DNA without a CArG-box (sequence: 5′-CCTATCTGGGTAGCATATGCTATCC-3′) was added to the binding reaction in 100- or 50-fold molar excess as indicated below. After electrophoresis, the gels were blotted to positively charged nylon membranes (Hybond N+, Amersham) and signal detection was done using the chemiluminescent nucleic acid detection module (Pierce, Rockford, IL, USA). The ABS::CFP/YFP constructs were cloned into pGD120 (Immink et al. CITATION) using restriction sites that were introduced by PCR on both sites of the coding sequences for ABS and the fluorescent reporter proteins. For the fluorophores, XbaI and XhoI restriction sites were used to construct CFP::pGD120 and YFP::pGD120. The ABS ORF was introduced 5′ to and in frame with the FP coding sequences using SalI and BamHI sites. Transfection of A. thaliana protoplasts was performed as described for Nicotiana tabacum by Reidt et al. (CITATION). An embryogenic suspension culture produced from the roots of A. thaliana Col-24 was used (kindly provided by A. Tewes, IPK, Gatersleben). Localization of ABS::CFP/YFP fusion proteins in protoplasts was carried out by confocal scanning laser microscopy (CSLM) on a CSLM 510 Meta (Zeiss, Jena). Excitation was provided by the 458 and 514 nm argon laser. Three dichroic beam splitters were used to separate excitation from emission and to divide the fluorescence emission into the CFP, YFP and chlorophyll channels. Images were analysed and adapted with Zeiss LSM510 software and the program IrfanView Version 3.80 (http://www.irfanview.de). Protein-based cDNA-alignments were produced using the RevTrans tool http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/RevTrans/. Sites with gaps and the complete C-terminal coding sequence were deleted from the alignment, leaving an alignment of 384 sites. Different outgroups were tested. Neighbour-Joining analyses were performed using the Mega2 program (Kumar et al. CITATION). The gamma shape parameter was calculated using the computer program Gamma with a Poisson Correction based tree as input. Bayesian analyses were done using MrBayes (Huelsenbeck and Ronquist CITATION) with standard settings, gamma distributed rates and 1×106 generations, sampling every 50th generation. The plantGDB (http://www.plantgdb.org/) was screened for Bsister genes in various species of flowering plants. Accession numbers of the ESTs are as follows: LBS (LYCOPERSICON BSISTER; Solanum lycopersicum): AI486443, AI899235 (assembled into contig LEtuc02-10-21.1808); HBS2 (HORDEUM BSISTER2; Hordeum vulgare): BQ753907, CK122890, BM099355 (contig HVtuc02-11-10.10527); HBS1 (HORDEUM BSISTER1; H.vulgare): CK125001, BQ764751, BM098919, (contig HVtuc02-11-10.11548), BU979626, BU981513, CK122554, BU974717; ZMM32 (Zea mays MADS 32): AI964627.1, CO525542.1, CO534754.1.
