!~ABS~! Cell-to-cell communication in plants involves the trafficking of macromolecules through specialized intercellular organelles, termed plasmodesmata. This exchange of proteins and RNA is likely regulated, and a role for protein phosphorylation has been implicated, but specific components remain to be identified. Here, we describe the molecular characterization of a plasmodesmal-associated protein kinase (PAPK). A 34-kD protein, isolated from a plasmodesmal preparation, exhibits calcium-independent kinase activity and displays substrate specificity in that it recognizes a subset of viral and endogenous non-cell-autonomous proteins. This PAPK specifically phosphorylates the C-terminal residues of tobacco mosaic virus movement protein (TMV MP); this posttranslational modification has been shown to affect MP function. Molecular analysis of purified protein established that tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) PAPK is a member of the casein kinase I family. Subcellular localization studies identified a possible Arabidopsis thaliana PAPK homolog, PAPK1. TMV MP and PAPK1 are colocalized within cross-walls in a pattern consistent with targeting to plasmodesmata. Moreover, Arabidopsis PAPK1 also phosphorylates TMV MP in vitro at its C terminus. These results strongly suggest that Arabidopsis PAPK1 is a close homolog of tobacco PAPK. Thus, PAPK1 represents a novel plant protein kinase that is targeted to plasmodesmata and may play a regulatory role in macromolecular trafficking between plant cells.
!~RES~! A biochemical approach was developed to identify the plasmodesmal-associated subcellular fraction that was enriched in kinase activity. For this purpose, we used a protocol recently developed for the isolation of a plasmodesmal-enriched cell wall protein (PECP) fraction from tobacco suspension-cultured cells (CITATION). The TMV MP was used as substrate in phosphorylation assays performed on PECP subfractions (Figure 1A). This viral NCAP was selected as it was previously shown to be phosphorylated by a kinase present in cell wall extracts (CITATION; CITATION), and this modification was correlated with its altered movement function (CITATION; CITATION). Our experiments indicated that the highest kinase activity was present in the 75 mM CaCl2 (PECP-75) extracted proteins. It is important to note that NCAPP1 (CITATION) was similarly highly enriched in this same PECP-75 subfraction (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Importantly, the TMV MP was not phosphorylated by either the supernatant or the subcellular fraction containing detergent-extracted proteins from the cell wall pellet. [[FIGURE]] To identify the molecular nature of this putative PAPK, the enzyme was further purified by employing a combination of chromatographic protocols, including cation-exchange, lectin, and heparin columns (Figure 1B). The PECP-75 extracts from several preparations were pooled and proteins first fractionated, by cation-exchange chromatography, and their profile then resolved by SDS-PAGE. Fractions containing high levels of enzyme activity were again identified, based on our TMV MP phosphorylation assay. These peak fractions were again pooled, and a relatively high level of PAPK purification was achieved following lectin (concanavalin A [Con A]) and heparin chromatography. Coomassie blue–stained SDS-PAGE gels revealed the presence of several discrete bands within this purified and enriched PECP fraction (Figure 1C). To determine the protein band corresponding to the putative PAPK, in-gel phosphorylation assays were next performed. These experiments established that the apparent molecular mass of the purified PAPK was ∼34 kD (Figure 1D). PAPK activity was also detected in PECP fractions prepared from tobacco leaf tissues (data not shown), and in-gel phosphorylation assays similarly revealed kinase activity associated with an ∼34-kD protein (Figure 1D). Biochemical assays were next performed to establish the functional characteristics of this ∼34-kD putative PAPK. Experiments were first conducted to ascertain whether PAPK exhibited calcium-dependent protein kinase activity. Pumpkin (Cucurbita maxima) CPK1 is a calcium-dependent protein kinase identified from pumpkin phloem sap (CITATION), and it was used as a control for calcium-dependent phosphorylation of the TMV MP in vitro (Figure 2A). In contrast with pumpkin CPK1, the phosphorylation of TMV MP, by PAPK, was calcium independent (Figure 2B). In general, ATP is preferred as a phosphate donor by most protein kinases (CITATION). Consistent with this notion, pumpkin CPK1 did not appear to use GTP as a phosphate donor (Figure 2C). Interestingly, both GTP and ATP could be used as good phosphate donors for the tobacco PAPK (Figure 2D). [[FIGURE]] Recently, it was shown that a plant cell wall extract contained kinase activity that could phosphorylate TMV MP in a calcium-independent manner (CITATION). The phosphorylation sites were mapped to the three residues, Ser258, Thr261, and Ser265, within the C-terminal end of the TMV MP. As PAPK is enriched in our PECP fraction and phosphorylates TMV MP, we next investigated whether this enzyme might be the corresponding endogenous kinase. For these studies, a deletion mutant that lacked the C-terminal 11 amino acid residues (TMV MPΔC11) and a recombinant glutathione S-transferase (GST) fusion protein containing the C-terminal 17 residues of TMV MP (GST-C17) were constructed (Figure 3A). In contrast with the full-length TMV-MP, the engineered TMV MPΔC11 served as a poor substrate for phosphorylation by the purified PAPK (Figure 3B). Densitometric analysis indicated that the level of phosphorylation of TMV MPΔC11 by PAPK was 10% of that observed for the TMV MP. This result indicated that the major phosphorylation site for PAPK is located within the deleted region of the TMV MP. As the expression of this mutant was as stable as that of full-length TMV MP, protein instability is unlikely to be responsible for this reduction in phosphorylation by the PAPK. Consistent with this notion, the TMV MPΔC11 served as a comparable substrate to the full-length TMV MP for phosphorylation by pumpkin CPK1 (Figure 3C). [[FIGURE]] GST-C17 also served as a substrate for phosphorylation by PAPK; controls using GST alone demonstrated the specificity of this reaction (Figure 3B). However, in comparison with the full-length TMV MP, GST-C17 appeared to serve as a less favorable substrate. The level of phosphorylation of GST-C17 by PAPK was 30% of that observed for the TMV MP based on densitometric analysis. Specificity of the phosphorylation reaction, mediated by PAPK, toward the C terminus of TMV MP was supported by the finding that pumpkin CPK1 failed to phosphorylate the GST-C17. Taken together, our results indicate that the major PAPK phosphorylation site resides within the C-terminal 11 amino acid residues of TMV MP. These findings support the hypothesis that PAPK is a plant protein kinase that recognizes NCAPs, such as the TMV MP. It is possible that PAPK might be an endogenous kinase that modulates, specifically, TMV MP upon viral infection. If this were the case, PAPK would likely be expressed in TMV host plants, and its expression might well be affected by viral infection. Moreover, the substrate specificity of PAPK could be quite narrow, if not exclusive to TMV MP. Alternatively, PAPK could play a role in controlling NCAP trafficking during normal plant growth and development (i.e., viruses could have exploited this host mechanism) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Under this scenario, PAPK would likely show broad substrate specificity toward both viral and endogenous NCAPs. To test between these two possibilities, we next examined the substrate specificity of PAPK. For this purpose, we selected four additional viral MPs and two well-characterized endogenous NCAPs. BC1 and BV1 represent MPs encoded by a DNA virus, Bean dwarf mosaic virus (CITATION; CITATION), while the MPs of Cucumber mosaic virus (CMV) and Red clover mosaic virus (RCNMV) were selected as examples of RNA viruses (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). KN1 and LFY are plant transcription factors that are well characterized for their non-cell-autonomous activities (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION, CITATION; CITATION). Under the in vitro conditions used for our experiments, PAPK displayed substrate specificity, in that it phosphorylated LFY, BC1, and TMV MP, but not KN1 or BV1 (Figure 4). The MPs of CMV and RCNMV were also examined and found to serve as poor substrates for PAPK (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). These studies established that PAPK likely functions in the recognition and phosphorylation of a specific subset of NCAPs of both plant and viral origin. [[FIGURE]] To identify the tobacco gene encoding PAPK, the ∼34-kD protein band (Figure 1C) was excised and subjected to conventional internal peptide microsequencing. A National Center for Biotechnology Information BLAST database search was conducted using the resultant peptide sequences, and this identified PAPK as a member of the CKI gene family (Figure 5). CKI is a Ser/Thr protein kinase family found in eukaryotes (CITATION). The kinase domains of plant CKI isoforms that were identified in the Arabidopsis and rice (Oryza sativa) genome databases shared 86% similarity at the amino acid sequence level (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). Interestingly, all PAPK-derived peptide microsequences were found to match this highly conserved kinase domain (Figure 5). This result prevented us from determining the actual tobacco CKI isoform corresponding to the biochemically purified PAPK. As both N- and C-terminal regions of purified PAPK were found to be blocked, we designed degenerate primers, based on the identified peptide sequences, to amplify PCR products that were then used to probe a tobacco cDNA library. A number of cDNA clones that contained regions closely matching the peptide microsequences were isolated. This indicated that the catalytic domain of CKI is highly conserved. However, we were unable to obtain any cDNA clones that completely matched all seven peptide microsequences and also encoded a 34-kD protein, the apparent molecular mass of purified PAPK. [[FIGURE]] To resolve this situation, we adopted an alternative approach to identify the PAPK gene, based on the expectation that PAPK would be localized to, or near, plasmodesmata. The Arabidopsis genome was found to contain some 14 Casein Kinase I-like (CKL) genes (Table 1), and within the conserved kinase domains, they shared 89% sequence similarity at the amino acid level. Of these genes, one (At4g08800) appeared to be a pseudogene, based on the fact that it contained an in-frame stop codon and/or short deletions within the conserved kinase subdomains; no reliable ESTs have been reported, and RT-PCR amplification of the putative transcript failed to yield any product. By contrast, all other members were successfully amplified by RT-PCR. As two isoforms, CKL9α and CKL9β, are apparently derived from alternative splicing, we concluded that 13 genes give rise to 14 CKL isoforms. Molecular Information and Intracellular Localization of CKL Isoforms In yeast and humans, CKI isoforms contain variable domains, either at the N or C terminus (CITATION); in Arabidopsis, all CKL isoforms appeared to contain C-terminal extensions with variable lengths from ∼20 to 180 amino acid residues. Three out of four yeast isoforms, YCK1, 2, and 3, contain isoprenylation sites at their C termini and are associated with the plasma membrane (CITATION; CITATION). However, no significant sequence conservation, predictable motifs, or domains for specific intracellular targeting/localization were detected within any of the Arabidopsis CKL extensions. In view of this finding, the intracellular localization/targeting of each CKL isoform was determined by expressing N- or C-terminal green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion proteins in plant cells. For transient expression of CKL-GFP fusion proteins, appropriate plasmid constructs were biolistically bombarded into tobacco suspension-cultured cells (CITATION). We divided these CKL isoforms into three groups on the basis of localization patterns determined by fluorescence microscopy (Figure 6). Group 1 isoforms exhibited a predominantly punctate fluorescence pattern at the cell periphery; group 2 isoforms had strong fluorescent signals within the nucleus, but signal was also present in the cytoplasm; and for group 3 isoforms, signal was located predominantly in the cytoplasm, with only a low level detected in the nucleus. Parallel expression studies were also performed using tobacco leaf tissues. Here, similar results were obtained with these same CKL-GFP constructs when we analyzed epidermal cells of mature tobacco leaves (Figure 7). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Fusion of GFP either at the CKL N or C terminus did not appear to make a difference in terms of the observed localization patterns (data not shown). These results indicate that the specific localization of the CKL isoforms is not dependent on either terminus being exposed. Among the CKL genes, group 1 isoforms were considered most likely to contain the PAPK homolog(s), as they formed punctate fluorescent signals along the periphery of both suspension cultured and epidermal cells. Indeed, in epidermal cells, the fluorescence pattern associated with group 1 isoforms, including CKL1, CKL6, CKL10, and CKL13, was very similar to those earlier observed for viral MPs (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The CKL8-associated fluorescence pattern appeared rather distinct, in that although the signal appeared punctate in nature the protein was also detected in both the cytoplasm and nucleus. Among the group 1 isoforms, CKL6 gave rise to the most stable expression and, therefore, was selected for further characterization as a putative Arabidopsis PAPK1. We first tested whether the localization pattern of CKL6 was consistent between Arabidopsis and tobacco. The experiments demonstrated that transient expression of CKL6 in Arabidopsis and tobacco leaves yielded similar punctate patterns (Figures 7A to 7C). To address more directly the association of PAPK with plasmodesmata, we next conducted colocalization studies using PAPK1 and TMV MP. To this end, PAPK1 was transiently expressed, as a translational fusion to red fluorescent protein (RFP), in transgenic tobacco plants expressing TMV MP-GFP driven by the 35S constitutive promoter. To ascertain whether PAPK1 and TMV MP use the same intracellular delivery pathway (CITATION; CITATION), we first examined the fluorescence patterns present within specialized epidermal cells, the guard cells. These cells were chosen because, at maturity, they are symplasmically isolated as they do not have functional plasmodesmata (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). As such, these guard cells provide a single-cell-based assay within the context of an intact leaf. Expression of PAPK1-RFP, in individual guard cells, gave rise to strong punctate red fluorescent signals (Figure 8A). A similar green punctate pattern was detected for TMV MP-GFP within the same cell (Figure 8B). However, the strong accumulation of TMV MP-GFP signal within the target guard cell is apparently induced by the ectopic expression of PAPK1, as equivalent TMV MP-GFP signal is not detected within the member of the guard cell pair nor in other guard cells. Note the punctate green fluorescent signals within the epidermal cell walls (Figure 8D), previously shown to reflect the localization of TMV MP-GFP within plasmodesmal pit fields (i.e., the regions of high plasmodesma density; CITATION). Importantly, PAPK1-RFP and TMV MP-GFP signals were found to be colocalized (Figure 8C, yellow signals), consistent with the hypothesis that both proteins engage a similar intracellular delivery pathway. [[FIGURE]] Epidermal pavement cells exhibited a similar pattern of overlapping signals between PAPK1-RFP and TMV MP-GFP (Figure 9). In these experiments, the TMV MP-GFP was detected within the cross-walls as a green punctate signal. Again, it is important to note that, within individually bombarded target cells, punctate signals produced by PAPK1-RFP almost always overlapped with those of TMV MP-GFP (Figures 9A to 9D). These results provide strong support for the hypothesis that PAPK1 is targeted to plasmodesmata, or it is associated with novel plasmodesmal-targeting machinery. Moreover, these studies imply that the in vivo interaction between PAPK1 and TMV MP likely occurs either during targeting to and/or within plasmodesmata. [[FIGURE]] Colocalization data strongly suggested that Arabidopsis PAPK1 represents a homolog of the PAPK purified from tobacco. However, stronger evidence would be provided if these two isoforms shared similar enzymatic properties. To this end, full-length Arabidopsis PAPK1 was expressed as a GST fusion protein in Escherichia coli, affinity purified, and tested for phosphorylation activity. As shown in Figure 10, recombinant Arabidopsis PAPK1 phosphorylated TMV MP and its derivatives, BDMV BC1 and LFY, in a similar manner to that observed with the tobacco PAPK (see Figures 3B and 4). Interestingly, recombinant Arabidopsis PAPK1 appeared to have relatively stronger substrate preference toward BC1 than LFY. Densitometric analysis indicated that the levels of phosphorylation of TMV MPΔC11 and GST-C17 by Arabidopsis PAPK1 were 8 and 30% of that observed for the TMV MP, respectively, which is comparable to the tobacco PAPK result (see Figure 3). In 10 replicate experiments, KN1 and BDMV BV1 were not phosphorylated by recombinant Arabidopsis PAPK1, but all other proteins showed consistent patterns of phosphorylation. Taken together, the results for substrate specificity, as demonstrated by these experiments, provided strong support for the hypothesis that Arabidopsis PAPK1 is a close homolog of tobacco PAPK. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Maintenance of BY-2 tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) suspension culture cells and preparation of PECP proteins were performed essentially as previously described (CITATION). Briefly, cells were harvested 5 d after transfer by filtering 4 liters of culture through Miracloth (Calbiochem). Cells were then given a nondisrupting wash in 75 mM calcium solution to remove noncovalently bound proteins. PECP preparations were also obtained using young leaves of 3-week-old tobacco plants; this tissue was first chopped into small pieces using a BioHomogenizer (BioSpec Products) and then homogenized (BeadBeater; BioSpec Products) using 2.5-mm beads. BY-2 cells or leaf tissue were homogenized, at 4°C, in buffer H (40 mM HEPES, pH 6.8, 20 mM KCl, 5 mM KH2PO4, 1 mM EDTA, and 10% glycerol) containing a mixture of protease inhibitors (10 μg/mL each of leupeptin and aprotinin and 10 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride). Cell wall pellets were collected by low-speed (5 min at 300g) centrifugation of cell homogenates and were repeatedly subjected to resuspension in buffer H and low-speed centrifugation until a white-colored pellet was obtained. This pellet was then washed with 1% CHAPS followed by extraction of PECP proteins; subfractions were extracted using a step gradient of 30, 75, and 200 mM calcium. Proteins contained in each subcellular fraction were resolved by electroporesis in SDS-PAGE gels and stained with GelCode Blue (Pierce) to reveal their protein profiles. Protein levels were determined using the Bradford assay (Bio-Rad). All subsequent purification steps were performed at 4°C. Proteins were concentrated using Centricon Plus-80 (Millipore) and dialyzed against buffer A (40 mM HEPES, pH 6.8, 2 mM EDTA, and 10% glycerol). Samples were then loaded onto a HiTrap-SP column (Amersham Biosciences) equilibrated with buffer A, and 1 mL fractions were collected chromatographically in an increasing salt gradient with 1 M NaCl. Peak fractions with TMV MP–phosphorylating activity were pooled, dialyzed, and then loaded onto a new cation exchange column equilibrated with buffer A at pH 8.0. Next, a Con A Sepharose affinity column, equilibrated with buffer C (20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.2, 1 mM MnCl2, 1 mM CaCl2, and 0.5 M NaCl), was employed. Finally, pooled proteins were purified using a HiTrap Heparin column (Amersham Biosciences) equilibrated with 40 mM HEPES, pH 6.8, and 2 mM EDTA. Bound proteins were eluted with 1 M NaCl in a gradient and collected in 0.5-mL fractions. Kinase activity assays contained 5 μL of a chromatographic fraction plus 1 μg of TMV MP (or other purified proteins) in a 50-μL reaction volume: assay buffer contained 50 mM HEPES, pH 7.5, 10 mM MgCl2, 2 mM DTT, 2 mM EGTA, and 60 to 100 mM ATP mixed with 2 μCi of [γ32-P]ATP (3000 Ci/mmol; Amersham Biosciences). For calcium-dependent phosphorylation assays, the reaction buffer was supplemented with 2.2 mM CaCl2 (CITATION). In assays employing Cucurbita maxima CPK1, 20 ng of purified recombinant enzyme was used. For kinase assays involving recombinant Arabidopsis thaliana PAPK1, 0.4 μg of purified GST-PAPK1 was added to the kinase assay mixture. In some assays, [γ -32P]GTP (3000 Ci/mmol) was used as the phosphate donor. Kinase assay components were assembled in each tube, on ice, and following transfer to 30°C, the ATP mixture was added and incubated for 10 min. Reactions were stopped by adding 10 μL of SDS sample loading buffer. Aliquots (15 to 30 μL) of each reaction mixture were resolved in 10 to 12% SDS-PAGE gel and autoradiographed to identify kinase activity. Densitometry analysis of autoradiograph was performed using NIH ImageJ software (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/). In-gel autophosphorylation assays were performed as previously described (CITATION). Briefly, following electrophoresis, the SDS-PAGE gels were washed (2 × 1 h) in buffer D (20% 2-propanol and 40 mM HEPES, pH 7.5). Gels were then incubated for 1 h in buffer D containing 5 mM 2-mercaptoethanol before protein denaturation (1 h) in the same buffer containing 6 M guanidine-HCl. Proteins were renatured by incubation in buffer D containing 3 and 1 M guanidine-HCl (3 h each step). Gels were then incubated (3 h) in buffer D containing 0.04% Tween 20, followed by equilibration (2 × 15 min) in phosphorylation assay buffer containing 50 mM HEPES, pH 7.5, 10 mM MgCl2, and 2 mM EGTA. In-gel phosphorylation was performed by incubating the conditioned gel in a complete assay buffer including 2 mM DTT and ATP mixture (10 μCi/mL [γ32P]ATP) for 1 h. Phosphorylation reactions were stopped by rinsing the gels with water and then incubating (4 × 1 h) in 5% trichloroacetic acid and 1% sodium pyrophosphate. In-gel substrate phosphorylation, in which TMV MP was polymerized to a final concentration of ∼300 μg/mL gel, was performed as for in-gel autophosphorylation assays. LFY was expressed in and purified from Escherichia coli. pLG2-8 containing LFY cDNA in frame to GST was digested with HindIII and EcoRI, blunt-ended, and self-ligated to produce a C-terminal deletion mutant whose expression in E. coli yields functional LFY (CITATION). Soluble GST fusion protein was purified using glutathione-agarose (Sigma-Aldrich) following a standard protocol. Other proteins used in phosphorylation assays were prepared by renaturing inclusion bodies. Briefly, protein expression in actively growing BL21(DE3, pLys) cells (Invitrogen) was induced by treatment with 1 mM isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside for 3 h at 37°C. Cells were then lysed in B-Per bacterial lysis buffer (Pierce) by sonication, and inclusion bodies were pelleted by centrifugation (5000g, 15 min). Pellets were then washed several times and resuspended in denaturation buffer (2% SDS and 0.1 M Na HCO3, pH 9.0), boiled for 4 min, and cooled on ice for 2 min. Renaturation of proteins was performed by a stepwise dialysis in which the ratio between renaturation (10 mM Tris, pH 8.0, 100 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 10% glycerol, and 2 mM DTT) and denaturation buffers was gradually increased from 20:80 to 100:0. PAPK1 was recalcitrant to expression in E. coli, possibly due to its toxic effect to the bacteria. However, the following protocol allowed the production of active full-length enzyme. Briefly, the Arabidopsis PAPK1 open reading frame was fused to GST, in frame, using pGEX-KG plasmid (CITATION) by PCR cloning. Following DNA sequence confirmation, pGST-PAPK1 was transformed into an E. coli host, Rosetta (DE3) pLys (Novagen). Transformed cells were streaked onto Luria-Bertani plates containing chloramphenicol and carbenicillin and grown overnight at 37°C. Cells were then transferred to 750 mL Luria-Bertani media containing antibiotics and grown at 25°C by shaking at 250 rpm until an OD of ∼0.8 was attained. Protein expression was induced by adding 1 mM isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside to the culture and incubating for 2 h at 18°C with gentle shaking. Cells were harvested and lysed with B-PER E. coli extraction buffer (Pierce) according to the manufacturer's protocol. Cell extracts were briefly sonicated and centrifuged for 15 min at 4°C. The supernatant was then added to 1 mL of glutathione-agarose beads pre-equilibrated with 50 mM Tris (pH 7.5) and 150 mM NaCl and incubated for 30 min at 4°C while rotating the beads end over end. Following four times of wash in equilibration buffer, GST-PAPK1 was eluted from beads with 10 mM glutathione buffer, pH 8.0, quantified, and used in phosphorylation assays. Plasmid vectors, pdGN, pdGC, and pdR2N, were constructed for the expression of GFP or RFP fusion proteins in plants. The multicloning site (MCS) of pdGN was constructed by transferring the enhanced GFP (EGFP) from pEGFP-PL (CITATION) to the expression cassette of a plant expression vector, pN6. First, pN6 was modified to remove the SacI site by blunt-ending the site and self-ligation. The vector was then digested with BamHI followed by blunt-ending and XhoI digestion to remove an intron sequence between the 35S promoter and Ocs terminator. The MCS-EGFP fragment, released from the pEGFP-PL by restriction enzyme digestions with NotI followed by blunt-ending and XhoI, was inserted into the expression cassette by ligation. pdGC was constructed in a similar manner such that it contained the same MCS as that of pdGN but allowed for the formation of EGFP fusion protein in the reverse orientation (i.e., C-terminal GFP-fusion). In pdR2N, EGFP was replaced with DsRed2 (Clontech) to allow the expression of N-terminal RFP fusion proteins. CKL open reading frames, or cDNAs, were cloned by RT-PCR. For this purpose, total RNA and mRNA were prepared from Arabidopsis root tissue using Trizol (Gibco BRL) and the RNeasy (Qiagen) mRNA purification kit, following the protocols provided by the suppliers. Following the RT reactions, employing PowerScript reverse transcriptase (Clontech), PCR amplification was performed with gene-specific primers and a high-fidelity Taq-polymerase (Stratagene). PCR products were then cloned into pdGN, pdGC, or pdR2C, via TOPO cloning kits (Invitrogen). The sequence of all CKL inserts in these TOPO clones was confirmed before subcloning into the respective expression vectors. For localization of GFP and RFP fusion constructs, transient assays were performed by employing both biolistic DNA delivery and Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated transfection (agroinfiltration). Transient expression in BY-2 cells was as described (CITATION), and bombardment of N. tabacum or Arabidopsis leaf tissues was performed basically as for BY-2 cells, except for the use of rupture discs with lower strength (960 p.s.i.). Agroinfiltration in N. benthamiana was performed as described (CITATION). After 16 to 48 h of incubation, at 25°C, cells expressing GFP or RFP fusion protein were observed by laser scanning confocal microscopy, as described below. Tobacco suspension cultured cells (BY-2) were imaged using a laser scanning confocal microscope (Leica LSM) as described (CITATION). Confocal images of leaf cells were acquired on an Axiovert 200M inverted microscope equipped with a Zeiss LSM 510 NLO (Carl Zeiss) using a Zeiss 20× Plan-Apochromat lens (numerical aperture 0.75) or ×40 C-Apochromat (numerical aperture 1.2) objective lens. Data acquisition of EGFP was obtained using the 488-nm laser line of a 25-mW argon laser (LASOS) with a 505LP emission filter. Multichannel images of EGFP and DsRed2 were acquired in fastline-switch mode using the 488- and 543-nm helium neon laser lines (LASOS) with the 500–550 band-pass and 560 long-pass emission filters, respectively. Images were captured as single optical sections (two dimensional) or as a z-series of optical sections (three dimensional). For renderings, three-dimensional data sets were displayed as single maximum intensity projections generated using Zeiss LSM software v3.2. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers AY943842 to AY943855.
