!~ABS~! Flowering traits in winter annual Arabidopsis thaliana are conferred mainly by two genes, FRIGIDA (FRI) and FLOWERING LOCUS C (FLC). FLC acts as a flowering repressor and is regulated by multiple flowering pathways. We isolated an early-flowering mutant, suppressor of FRIGIDA3 (suf3), which also shows leaf serration, weak apical dominance, and infrequent conversion of the inflorescence shoot to a terminal flower. The suf3 mutation caused a decrease in the transcript level of FLC in both a FRI-containing line and autonomous pathway mutants. However, suf3 showed only a partial reduction of FLC transcript level, although it largely suppressed the late-flowering phenotype. In addition, the suf3 mutation caused acceleration of flowering in both 35S-FLC and a flc null mutant, indicating that SUF3 regulates additional factor(s) for the repression of flowering. SUF3 is highly expressed in the shoot apex, but the expression is not regulated by FRI, autonomous pathway genes, or vernalization. SUF3 encodes the nuclear ACTIN-RELATED PROTEIN6 (ARP6), the homolog of which in yeast is a component of an ATP-dependent chromatin-remodeling SWR1 complex. Our analyses showed that SUF3 regulates FLC expression independent of vernalization, FRI, and an autonomous pathway gene, all of which affect the histone modification of FLC chromatin. Subcellular localization using a green fluorescent protein fusion showed that Arabidopsis ARP6 is located at distinct regions of the nuclear periphery.
!~RES~! To dissect the genetic mechanisms governing flowering behavior of Arabidopsis winter annuals, we performed fast neutron mutagenesis in the line Col:FRISF2 (FRISF2 from the winter annual San Feliu-2 was introgressed into Col by backcrossing eight times; thus, this line has a winter annual flowering trait; it was used as the wild type in our study) (CITATION; CITATION). We screened early-flowering mutants that showed recessive single gene mutations. Genetic complementation analysis disclosed a group of early-flowering mutants that were allelic to one another but not to either flc (FN231) or fri (FN235) (data not shown) (CITATION). We named this mutant suf3. Seven suf3 alleles were obtained, and all of them showed the same phenotype; thus, we mainly discuss suf3-1 as the representative phenotype (Figure 1, Table 1). When grown under long days, suf3 showed much earlier flowering than wild-type Col:FRISF2 and similar flowering time to Col, which has a fri FLC genotype (Figures 1A and 1C, Table 1) (we refer to suf3 in the Col background as suf3 fri below). The suf3 mutant also showed delay in flowering under short days, similar to Col, suggesting that the suf3 mutation does not affect the photoperiod response (Table 1). However, suf3 showed much stronger acceleration of flowering by vernalization than Col, indicating that the vernalization response is not much affected by the suf3 mutation (Table 1). In addition to early flowering, all of the suf3 alleles showed additional phenotypes. suf3 consistently produced serrated leaves starting from the sixth leaf (Figures 1B and 1C). It also produced approximately twice as many coflorescence shoots as Col (6.44 ± 0.71 for suf3 and 5.06 ± 0.49 for suf3 fri versus 3.33 ± 0.49 for Col), which suggests the weakening of apical dominance in the suf3 mutants (Figure 1C). Although infrequent, the secondary shoot apices of suf3 occasionally converted to terminal flowers after producing racemic inflorescences (3 terminal flowers were observed among 62 secondary shoots from 13 suf3 mutant plants; Figure 1D). suf3 mutants occasionally produced flowers with extra petals; among 100 flowers, 63 had four petals and 27 had five or more petals (Figure 1E). The frequency of flowers with extra petals in suf3 was slightly less than that in pie1 mutants (47% for five or more petals) reported previously (CITATION). Otherwise, suf3 showed normal growth and development, similar to Col; for example, it exhibited similar size and the same leaf initiation rate as the wild type and Col (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Flowering Time of suf3 For positional cloning of SUF3, we crossed suf3-1 to Ler:FRISF2 FLCSF2, a line obtained by backcrossing of San Feliu-2 to Ler six times (CITATION), and selected early-flowering progeny from the F2 population for mapping (Figure 2). The rough mapping showed linkage with two simple sequence length polymorphism markers, ciw11 and ciw4, on chromosome 3. Then, we generated more simple sequence length polymorphism markers for fine mapping and found that SUF3 is located between markers SH33 and SH34 (Figure 2A). From 504 chromatids analyzed, no recombinants were found at markers SH35, SH36, SH37, or SH38 loci. Interestingly, we could not amplify DNA by PCR at the marker SH39 locus from suf3 mutants (data not shown). Because fast neutron mutagenesis usually generates a deletion, we tested whether the region surrounding marker SH39 was deleted. All of the suf3 alleles showed a deletion in the region including At3g33530 (WD repeat protein), At3g33520 (ARP6), and At3g33448 (hypothetical protein); suf3-1 showed the smallest deletion, covering ∼14 kb (Figure 2A; data not shown). A homozygous null mutant of gene At3g33530 encoding the WD repeat protein was selected from the SALK line (SALK_003098; T-DNA was inserted in the first exon), and the cross with suf3 resulted in complementation, showing that it is not responsible for the suf3 mutant phenotype (data not shown). We could not obtain the T-DNA insertion mutant of At3g33520 encoding ARP6; thus, we introduced the 35S-ARP6 transgene into the suf3 mutant. All 14 transformants showed a very late-flowering phenotype similar to the wild type (Figure 2C). In addition, none of the transformants showed serrated leaves, terminal flowers, or extra petals, the phenotypes observed in suf3 (data not shown). Furthermore, RNA interference (RNAi) of ARP6 in the wild type consistently caused early flowering, although the range of flowering time was variable among the lines depending on the level of reduction in ARP6 (Figures 2B and 2C). The RNAi transformants also showed additional phenotypes observed in suf3, such as serrated leaves, increased coflorescence shoots, and terminal flowers (Figure 2C, d; data not shown). Therefore, we concluded that SUF3 encodes the ARP6 protein. As reported previously, Arabidopsis ARP6 consists of six exons and encodes proteins of 422 amino acids (CITATION). ARP6 is highly conserved among eukaryotes and has two peptide insertions that seemingly provide divergent surface features from conventional actin (Figure 3). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The SUF3 transcript was detected in all of the tissues we tested, although the expression was slightly weaker in the leaf and stronger in the shoot apex (Figure 4A). In situ hybridization showed that SUF3 is highly expressed in the shoot apex at both the vegetative and reproductive phases (Figure 4D). During vegetative growth, the leaf primordia as well as the shoot apex showed strong expression, but the expression decreased as the leaves matured (Figure 4D, a). During flower development, SUF3 was expressed throughout the entire flower meristem until floral stage 3 (for floral stage description, see CITATION). Afterward, expression was reduced from the outermost floral organ primordia. Finally, strong expression was detected at the inner side of the carpel primordia as the flower matured (Figure 4D). [[FIGURE]] The transcript level of SUF3 in the wild type was not changed by 5 weeks of vernalization, suggesting that the expression of SUF3 is not affected by environmental factors (Figure 4B). To determine whether SUF3 expression is regulated by any of the flowering time genes, RNA gel blot analysis was performed using plants with different genetic backgrounds (Figure 4C). The SUF3 transcript level in the Col:FRISF2 wild type was similar to that in Col, showing that SUF3 expression is not affected by the presence of the FRI gene. Furthermore, the SUF3 transcript level was not affected by mutations in autonomous pathway genes such as ld, fca, and fld or by mutations in long-day pathway genes such as gi, co, and ft. A mutation in SOC1, a flowering pathway integrator, also did not affect the level of the SUF3 transcript. Together, our results showed that SUF3 expression is not regulated by vernalization or other flowering time genes. We determined whether the early flowering of suf3 mutants is attributable to the decreased level of FLC by RNA gel blot analysis. All seven suf3 alleles showed ∼30 to 60% reduction in FLC transcript level compared with the Col:FRISF2 wild type (Figures 5A and 5B). The FLC transcript level in suf3 is fivefold higher than that in Col, although suf3 and Col exhibited a similar flowering time. In contrast with FLC, the SOC1 transcript level in suf3 was similar to that in Col (Figure 5A). Because FLC functions in the shoot apex and it was reported previously that a mutation in pie1 causes a reduction in FLC specifically in the shoot apex but not in the root (CITATION), we compared the level of FLC reduction attributable to the suf3 lesion among different tissues. As shown in Figure 5C, a similar reduction was observed in all of the tissues we tested, indicating that the suf3 mutation affects the expression of FLC in all tissues. It is noteworthy that the suf3 mutants we analyzed have complete deletion of the gene; thus, the residual expression of FLC is not the result of a weak mutation. [[FIGURE]] Because a relatively higher level of FLC remained in suf3, we determined whether the residual expression of FLC still delays flowering. When the suf3 mutants were vernalized for 5 weeks, a period of cold that is sufficient to suppress FLC expression, flowering was further accelerated in both long days and short days (Figure 5D, Table 1). Consistently, the genetic removal of either FRI or FLC from suf3 mutants caused similar acceleration of flowering as the vernalization treatment (Figure 5D). These results show that the residual FLC expression in suf3 represses flowering. However, the flowering time as well as the SOC1 transcript level of suf3 in the Col:FRISF2 background are similar to those of Col. This strongly suggests that SUF3 regulates not only FLC but also additional factor(s) for the repression of flowering. Consistent with this idea, the suf3 mutation caused earlier flowering in line 35S-FLC, which ectopically overexpresses FLC (Figure 5D). Mutations in autonomous pathway genes in Col cause late flowering as a result of the derepression of FLC (Figure 5E) (CITATION). The double mutant analysis showed that the suf3 mutation largely suppresses the late-flowering phenotype in the autonomous pathway mutants (Figure 5F). Consistently, RNA gel blot analysis showed that the suf3 mutation caused a decrease in FLC and an increase in SOC1 in the autonomous pathway mutants (Figure 5E). Together, our results suggest that SUF3 is generally required for high levels of FLC expression independent of FRI and the autonomous pathway genes. We checked the effect of suf3 on the expression of another flowering pathway integrator, FT (Figure 6A). Similar to SOC1, the FT transcript level was also increased by the suf3 mutation. Interestingly, under short-day conditions, the suf3 fri (suf3 in Col) plants flowered very early compared with Col or suf3 (Table 1). RT-PCR analysis showed that both FT and SOC1 were highly expressed in suf3 fri, whereas they were not detectable in Col or suf3 when the plants were grown under short days (Figure 6A). Because SUF3 most likely regulates an additional flowering repressor as well as FLC, our results suggest that an additional repressor and FLC act partially redundantly to repress the expression of FT and SOC1 in short days. Thus, the combination of suf3 and weak expression of FLC causes a synergistic effect on flowering time in short days. [[FIGURE]] It was reported previously that FLM/MAF1 (for FLOWERING LOCUS M/MADS-AFFECTING FLOWERING1) and MAF2, genes closely related to FLC, act as flowering repressors (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION). In addition, similar to FLC, these FLC clade MADS box genes were shown to be regulated by homologs of the PAF1 complex, which mediates the trimethylation of histone H3 of Lys-4 (CITATION). To address the possibility that the additional flowering repression caused by SUF3 is attributable to these genes, we checked the effect of the suf3 mutation on the expression of FLM/MAF1 and MAF2 (Figure 6B). The transcript levels of FLM/MAF1 and MAF2 in suf3 mutants were similar to those in the wild type, suggesting that they are not the additional repressors regulated by SUF3. SUPPRESSOR OF VEGETATIVE PHASE, a MADS box gene from another clade that acts as a flowering repressor (CITATION; CITATION), also did not show any difference in transcript level between the wild type and suf3 (Figure 6B). The expression of the other flowering time genes CO, LD, PIE1, and TFL2 also was not affected by the suf3 mutation. To understand the cellular function of SUF3, we determined the subcellular location of Arabidopsis ARP6. For this, a gene encoding the ARP6:green fluorescent protein (GFP) or yellow fluorescent protein (YFP):ARP6 fusion protein, with an N- or C-terminal fusion, respectively, was introduced transiently into Arabidopsis protoplasts. Genes encoding GFP alone, NLS:red fluorescent protein (RFP) (a nuclear localization signal from simian virus 40 large T antigen fused with red fluorescent protein) (CITATION; CITATION), and TFL2:RFP were used as controls for subcellular localization (Figure 7). As expected, GFP alone was detected in both the cytoplasm and the nucleus, whereas NLS:RFP and TFL2:RFP were detected only in the nucleus (Figures 7A to 7C). As shown in Figure 7D, ARP6:GFP was also detected in the nucleus, as were the ARP6 homologs of yeast and human (CITATION; CITATION). However, the subnuclear localization of ARP6:GFP was different from that of NLS:RFP or TFL2:RFP (Figures 7D to 7L). Although NLS:RFP and TFL2:RFP were detected throughout the nucleoplasm, ARP6:GFP was excluded from the central region of the nucleus but detected at several regions of the nuclear periphery in patches (Figure 7D). The C-terminally fused YFP:ARP6 also showed similar subnuclear localization (Figures 7E to 7H). Consistently, the colocalization experiment using ARP6:GFP and TFL2:RFP showed that ARP6 is localized at the nuclear periphery, whereas TFL2 is localized at the nucleoplasm. The nuclear periphery was thought to be a place where gene activation or gene silencing occurs (CITATION; CITATION); thus, subcellular localization studies may indicate that SUF3 regulates gene expression at the nuclear periphery. Our results also clearly showed that Arabidopsis ARP6 is not colocalized with TFL2 in the nucleus, in contrast with the colocalization of ARP6 and HP1, a TFL2 homolog in Drosophila cells (CITATION). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The wild type used in this study was the Arabidopsis thaliana Col:FRISF2 strain, which is a Col near-isogenic line containing the FRI allele of San Feliu-2 by eight backcrosses into Col (CITATION; CITATION). Plants were grown in long days (16 h of light/8 h of dark) or short days (8 h of light/16 h of dark) under cool white fluorescent lights (100 μmol·m−2·s−1) at 22°C with 60% RH. For vernalization, seeds were soaked and allowed to germinate on Murashige and Skoog medium at 4°C in short days for 5 weeks. Flowering time was measured by counting the number of rosette leaves from at least 10 plants. Fast neutron mutagenesis and mutagenized populations of the Col:FRISF2 strain have been described previously (CITATION). Among early-flowering mutants that flower as early as Col, we obtained seven fast neutron alleles of suf3, suf3-1 to suf3-7 (FN6, FN7, FN24, FN108, FN115, FN202, and FN225) through complementation analysis. For the positional cloning of the SUF3 gene, we selected early-flowering F2 progeny from the crosses between suf3-1 and Ler:FRISF2 FLCSF2, which was obtained by six backcrosses of San Feliu-2 to Ler (CITATION). Bulked segregation analysis was performed with the pool of 30 F2 individuals using molecular markers described by CITATION. For fine mapping, molecular markers based on small insertion–deletion polymorphisms on chromosome 3 were made using an alignment program, EditPlus 2, provided at http://www.ch.embnet.org/software/LALIGN_form.html, after extracting Col and Ler sequences (http://www.arabidopsis.org/Cereon/index.jsp). The sequences of primers for the markers made are shown in Supplemental Table 1 online. Total RNA was extracted from Arabidopsis seedlings using TRIZOL reagent (Sigma-Aldrich). For RNA gel blot analyses, 20 μg of total RNA was separated by 1.2% denaturing formaldehyde–agarose gel electrophoresis and transferred to nylon membranes (Hybond N+; Amersham). The digoxigenin (DIG)-labeled mRNA probes were prepared from plasmid vectors containing the cDNA fragments lacking the MADS domain for FLC and SOC1 and the full cDNA for SUF3 using the DIG RNA labeling kit (Roche). Prehybridization, hybridization, and washes were performed as described in the DIG application manual (Roche). As a quantitative RNA loading control, membranes were stripped and probed with 18S rDNA labeled with [α-32P]dCTP. The RT-PCR procedure and primers used for SOC1, FLC, FT, and TUB2 were described previously (CITATION; CITATION). For SUF3, primers SUF3-F (5′-ATCACGCCATTAAGAGGATTG-3′) and SUF3-R (5′-CTTGGTGACACACATGGACTC-3′) were used. Tissues from 12-d-old Col seedlings and 25-d-old Col inflorescence shoots grown under long days were collected, fixed, and treated according to the Irish laboratory protocol provided at http://pantheon.yale.edu/%7Evi5/In%20situ%20protocol.pdf. The sections were made in 8 μm. As a template for the SUF3 probe, we used pYB31 containing full-length cDNA amplified by PCR. For the antisense probe, pYB31 plasmid DNA was digested with HindIII, which resulted in a probe of 660 nucleotides at the C terminus. For the sense probe, the DNA was digested with EcoRI, which resulted in a full-length probe with 1300 nucleotides. The entire procedure of in situ hybridization followed the Irish laboratory protocol. To generation the 35S-SUF3 construct, the cDNA of SUF3 was amplified by RT-PCR with forward primer 5′-ATGCAGGATCCGTATGTCAAACATCGTTGTTCTA-3′ and reverse primer 5′-AACCCGGATCCTCAATGAAAGAATCGTCTACGAC-3′. The BamHI fragment of the PCR product was cloned into pCGN18 binary vector containing the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and the nopaline synthase terminator (CITATION). To produce the SUF3 RNAi construct, an inverted-repeat construction including 198 bp of the 3′ untranslated region (25 bp) and the C-terminal region (173 bp) of AtARP6 was made using pKANNIBAL vector in which a spliceable intron separates the two repeats (CITATION). Primers designed for PCR amplification of two identical 198-bp fragments for the AtARP6 RNAi construct were RNAi XhoI (5′-ATGCCCTCGAGCCACTTGTCCCAGATCACTTT-3′), RNAi KpnI (5′-ATGCCGGTACCCTCATGTGATATGTTTTGGT-3′), RNAi BamHI (5′-ATGCCGGATCCCCACTTGTCCCAGATCACTTT-3′), and RNAi ClaI (5′-ATGCCATCGATCTCATGTGATATGTTTTGGT-3′). The product was subcloned into a binary vector, pART27, for transformation of the wild type (CITATION). For construction of a gene encoding a GFP fusion, a PCR fragment containing the AtARP6 open reading frame was amplified with forward primer 5′-ATGCAGGATCCGTATGTCAAACATCGTTGTTCTA-3′ and reverse primer 5′-AACCCGGATCCAATGAAAGAATCGTCTACGACAC-3′, which remove the stop codon at the C terminus and bear a BamHI restriction site. The fragment was inserted at the BamHI restriction site of the p326-GFP vector between the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and the N terminus of GFP (CITATION). For the YFP:AtARP6 fusion construct, the SUF3 cDNA fragment was obtained by RT-PCR with forward primer 5′-ATGCGGATCCATGTCAAACATCGTTGTTCTA-3′ and reverse primer 5′-AATTAGGCCTATGAAAGAATCGTCTACGACA-3′ and was cloned in a plant expression vector containing the cassava vein mosaic virus promoter (CITATION) and the nopaline synthase terminator using BamHI and StuI restriction sites. For the TFL2:RFP fusion construct, TFL2 cDNA was amplified by PCR with forward primer 5′-ATGCAAGATCTATGAAAGGGGCAAGTGGTGCT-3′ and reverse primer 5′-ATGCAAGATCTAAGGCGTTCGATTGTACTT-3′, and the product was inserted at the N terminus of RFP in p326-RFP vector. For a positive control of nuclear localization, the fusion construct NLS-RFP was used (CITATION; CITATION). Rosette leaves of plants grown for 4 to 6 weeks were used for the isolation and transformation of protoplasts essentially as described at http://genetics.mgh.harvard.edu/sheenweb/. Protoplasts were electroporated with 20 μg of plasmid DNA prepared with the Qiagen Plasmid Maxi Kit and cultured at 22°C in the dark. After 12 h of electroporation, protoplasts were observed with a confocal laser scanning microscope equipped with an argon/krypton laser (Bio-Rad). The GFP fusion and YFP proteins were excited at 488 nm, whereas the RFP fusion protein and chlorophylls were excited at 568 nm. GFP/YFP, RFP, and chlorophyll autofluorescence were analyzed with the HQ515/30, HQ600/50, and E600LP emission filters, respectively. The resulting green and red images were overlaid and processed using Confocal Assistant 4.02 (Todd Clark Brelje) and Adobe Photoshop 6.0. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession number AT3G33520.
