!~ABS~! Aquaporins facilitate the uptake of soil water and mediate the regulation of root hydraulic conductivity (Lpr) in response to a large variety of environmental stresses. Here, we use Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) plants to dissect the effects of salt on both Lpr and aquaporin expression and investigate possible molecular and cellular mechanisms of aquaporin regulation in plant roots under stress. Treatment of plants by 100 mm NaCl was perceived as an osmotic stimulus and induced a rapid (half-time, 45 min) and significant (70%) decrease in Lpr, which was maintained for at least 24 h. Macroarray experiments with gene-specific tags were performed to investigate the expression of all 35 genes of the Arabidopsis aquaporin family. Transcripts from 20 individual aquaporin genes, most of which encoded members of the plasma membrane intrinsic protein (PIP) and tonoplast intrinsic protein (TIP) subfamilies, were detected in nontreated roots. All PIP and TIP aquaporin transcripts with a strong expression signal showed a 60% to 75% decrease in their abundance between 2 and 4 h following exposure to salt. The use of antipeptide antibodies that cross-reacted with isoforms of specific aquaporin subclasses revealed that the abundance of PIP1s decreased by 40% as early as 30 min after salt exposure, whereas PIP2 and TIP1 homologs showed a 20% to 40% decrease in abundance after 6 h of treatment. Expression in transgenic plants of aquaporins fused to the green fluorescent protein revealed that the subcellular localization of TIP2;1 and PIP1 and PIP2 homologs was unchanged after 45 min of exposure to salt, whereas a TIP1;1-green fluorescent protein fusion was relocalized into intracellular spherical structures tentatively identified as intravacuolar invaginations. The appearance of intracellular structures containing PIP1 and PIP2 homologs was occasionally observed after 2 h of salt treatment. In conclusion, this work shows that exposure of roots to salt induces changes in aquaporin expression at multiple levels. These changes include a coordinated transcriptional down-regulation and subcellular relocalization of both PIPs and TIPs. These mechanisms may act in concert to regulate root water transport, mostly in the long term (≥6 h).
!~RES~! Hydroponically grown Arabidopsis plants were transferred to a fresh nutrient solution with or without salt concentrations up to 150 mm. After 1 h, entire root systems were excised and inserted into a pressure chamber, with a bathing solution similar to that initially applied to the intact root. All roots showed a linear relationship between exuded sap flow rate (Jv) and applied pressure (P) for 0.15 MPa < P < 0.80 MPa (Fig. 1A). [[FIGURE]] P0 was defined as the linearly extrapolated x intercept of the Jv(P) curve. P0 provides an estimate of the balancing pressure required to counteract possible osmotic driving forces present across the root. Control roots maintained in a standard nutrient solution without salt exhibited reduced spontaneous exudation and P0 was close to zero. In salt-treated roots, P0 was positive and increased with the strength of the saline solution, up to P0 = 0.4 MPa at 150 mm NaCl. These data suggest that salt exposure results in a strong, negative osmotic pressure gradient, ΔΠx→s, between the xylem vessels and the root bathing solution. ΔΠx→s can be experimentally determined from the difference in osmolality between exuded sap (Πx) and root bathing solution (Πs). Figure 1B was derived from data obtained on individual roots as shown in Figure 1A. It shows that P0 was linearly related to ΔΠx→s, with a slope coefficient σ = 0.77 (r2=0.89). σ can be interpreted as the root reflection coefficient, whereby σ ΔΠx→s represents the osmotic driving force across the root. A σ value below unity suggests that the Arabidopsis root functions as an imperfect osmometer (i.e. is somewhat permeable to solutes). This idea was corroborated by the observation that Πx linearly increased with the externally applied salt concentration (data not shown). Collectively, these results establish the physical basis of osmotically and hydrostatically driven water transport in the Arabidopsis root. They also show that, for plants exposed to varying salt concentrations, the slope of the Jv(P) curve reported to root dry weight (DW) can be used as an estimate of Lpr. Control plants maintained in a standard nutrient solution had a mean Lpr value of 186.6 ± 8.8 mL g−1 h−1 MPa−1 (n = 7). Data, as exemplified in Figure 1A, indicated that treatment of plants by the same solution, but complemented with 25, 50, 100, or 150 mm NaCl, induced after 1 h a reduction in Lpr (in %) by 21.4 ± 9.9 (n = 8), 46.2 ± 7.9 (n = 6), 61.6 ± 3.7 (n = 7), and 70.1 ± 4.2 (n = 5), respectively. Because of its marked effects on Lpr, treatment with 100 mm NaCl was chosen as a standard salt treatment for further studies. A similar osmotic challenge, as induced by treatment with 200 mm mannitol, resulted in a similar reduction in Lpr by 62.3 ± 5.6% (n = 10). This suggests that hyperosmolarity, rather than ion toxicity, is responsible for early salt-induced inhibition of Lpr. The kinetic effects of salt exposure on Lpr were characterized in closer detail (Fig. 2A). In control experiments, we observed that transfer of intact plants into a different container, but containing the same standard nutrient solution, induced a significant fluctuation in Lpr over time. In particular, Lpr was increased by 44% from reference values after 1 h and 40 min of transfer (Fig. 2A). A similar fluctuation has been observed by CITATION and tentatively explained as a spontaneous, diurnal variation of Lpr. In our experiments, a similar increase in Lpr was reproduced at whatever time of day that plant transfer was performed. In contrast to control plants, plants treated with 100 mm NaCl showed as early as 40 min after treatment a significantly reduced Lpr with respect to control plants (Fig. 2A). Lpr was maximally inhibited after 4 to 6 h of treatment to 25% to 30% of values in control conditions. Inhibition was maintained for 20 to 24 h of treatment. An exponential fit of these data from an average control value at initial time indicated a half-time for inhibition of T1/2 = 45.3 min (Fig. 2A). [[FIGURE]] The responsiveness of plants to salt is controlled in part by the salt overly sensitive 2 (SOS2)/SOS3 pathway (CITATION), and its possible role in salt-induced inhibition of Lpr was investigated. Mutation of the SOS2 gene results in a 10-fold increased sensitivity of roots to growth inhibition by salt (CITATION). Water transport measurements, as exemplified in Figure 1A, showed that wild-type and sos2-1 mutant plants exhibited similar dose-dependent inhibition of Lpr with, in both cases, 50% inhibition of Lpr by salt concentrations between 50 and 100 mm (data not shown). In addition, treatment of sos2-1 plants by 100 mm NaCl induced a decrease in Lpr, down to 25% to 30% of control values, with T1/2 = 31 min (Fig. 2B). Because of the limited accuracy of T1/2 determination, we interpret these kinetic data to mean that the Lpr response of sos2-1 plants to salt was qualitatively similar to that of wild-type plants. Similar to wild type, sos2-1 plants also showed a marked inhibition of Lpr by a 200 mm mannitol treatment (data not shown). Sequence tags specific for each of the 35 Arabidopsis aquaporin genes were searched by multiple nucleotide sequence alignments and eventually refined by pairwise comparisons. All selected tags were mostly comprised in the 3′ untranslated transcribed region, had a minimal length of 204 bp (maximum length, 361 bp), and shared less than 56% overall sequence identity with any other tag. To further reduce possible cross-hybridization (CITATION), no conserved stretch (>80% sequence identity) greater than 22 bp was admitted, with the exception of the PIP2;2 and PIP2;3 tags, which shared 80% identity over a 55-bp sequence. Using these criteria, we were able to identify 32 gene-specific tags (GSTs) corresponding to 29 individual genes and three pairs of close homologs (TIP3;1/TIP3;2, nodulin 26-like intrinsic membrane protein 1;1 [NIP1;1]/NIP1;2, and NIP4;1/NIP4;2), in which no marked divergence in sequence (<80% identity) could be distinguished. Expression of the whole complement of aquaporin genes was followed by hybridizing macroarray membranes carrying the GSTs with a complex 33P-labeled probe prepared from root cDNA (Table I). GSTs for 10 members of the PIP subfamily and five members of the TIP subfamily showed hybridization signals that were significantly above the background signal determined from negative control genes (Table I). Although these signals cannot be compared on a quantitative basis, they point to certain genes, such as PIP1;1, PIP1;2, PIP1;3, PIP2;1, PIP2;2, TIP1;1, TIP1;2, TIP2;2, and TIP2;3, as being highly expressed in roots (Table I). It is also noteworthy that some very close homologs of highly expressed genes showed very weak hybridization signals (compare, for instance, PIP2;2 and PIP2;3, and TIP1;2 and TIP1;3), suggesting that reduced cross-hybridization, if any, occurred between GSTs. In the same experiments, 14 aquaporin GSTs yielded weak, nonsignificant hybridization signals, suggesting that the corresponding genes were not or lowly expressed in roots. However, using RT-PCR, it was possible to detect transcripts for four of these genes (PIP2;5, PIP2;6, TIP4;1, and NIP2;1). Expression level of aquaporin isoforms in roots of 30-d-old Arabidopsis plants (ecotype Col-0) grown in standard hydroponic culture conditions a.u., Arbitrary units; RT-PCR, no significant expression signal was measured by macroarrays, but expression could be detected by RT-PCR; n.d., expression was detectable neither by macroarrays nor by RT-PCR. To test further the specificity of the macroarray signals, we used an Arabidopsis line with a T-DNA insertion within the PIP2;2 gene and, therefore, a completely disrupted PIP2;2 mRNA transcription (CITATION). Accordingly, the PIP2;2 signal was reduced to a basal level, whereas the hybridization signals corresponding to the other PIP genes were not significantly altered (Fig. 3). Altogether, these results establish that macroarrays carrying aquaporin GSTs provide reproducible and specific signals for expression profiling of individual isoforms. We also showed that a minimum of 24 aquaporin transcripts were present in roots of plants grown in standard hydroponic conditions. [[FIGURE]] The kinetic variations of aquaporin transcript abundance in roots were studied over the first 24 h following salt treatment, with a special focus on early effects of salt until 1 h of treatment. Figure 4 represents pooled data from three independent 100 mm NaCl treatments, each being analyzed in two complete probe-labeling and hybridization experiments. Our analyses were also supported by the study of several control genes in parallel (Fig. 4, A and B). The hybridization signal of the salt-responsive RD29B gene was around background at initial time points (0–1 h), but rose to 2.8 times background level after 2 to 6 h of treatment (Fig. 4A). In contrast, the signals for actin2 (ACT2) and circadian clock regulated 2 (CCR2) transcripts showed a steady decrease over time, whereas expression of elongation factor 1-α (EF1-α) was fairly stable throughout the treatment (Fig. 4B). [[FIGURE]] Expression of PIP and TIP aquaporin genes was remarkably stable over the 2 h following salt exposure, with the exception of PIP2;3 and TIP2;3, which showed a punctual increase in hybridization signal at 2 h, by 100% and 60%, respectively (Fig. 4, C and D). By contrast, a dramatic decrease in signal for the most prevalent aquaporin transcripts was observed between 2 and 4 h of treatment. Signals were maximally reduced at 6 h of treatment, by 35% (PIP1;2) to 65% (PIP1;1 and TIP2;2). For most of these genes, expression remained low until 24 h of treatment, whereas, for a few others (PIP1;2, PIP2;1, and TIP1;1), a tendency for increase in signal toward initial values was observed after 24 h. By contrast, most of the lowly expressed genes (PIP1;4, PIP1;5, PIP2;7, and TIP2;1) showed a distinct pattern, with a stable signal over the first 6 h, followed in some cases by a significant decrease at 24 h (Fig. 4, C and D). Finally, no significant change in hybridization signals for NIP and small basic intrinsic protein (SIP) genes was observed (data not shown). To test further the specificity of salt-dependent aquaporin gene regulation, a set of 50 independently chosen Arabidopsis cDNAs was taken as a supposedly invariable reference and used to normalize the kinetic data shown in Figure 4. This procedure yielded results that were qualitatively similar to those from nonnormalized data, indicating, in particular, a significant down-regulation (25%–60%) of all abundant aquaporin transcripts after 2 h of salt treatment (data not shown). It was also critical for the macroarray data to be validated by an independent technique. RNA samples pooled from three independent salt treatments were analyzed by northern blots, using the PIP1;1, PIP2;3, TIP1;2, and TIP2;2 GSTs as probes. Although slight discrepancies were observed at certain time points (Fig. 5), these analyses qualitatively reproduced the gene expression patterns revealed by macroarrays. For instance, a marked decrease of the PIP1;1 hybridization signal was observed after 4 to 6 h of salt exposure, whereas a peak in PIP2;3 expression was revealed at 2 h of treatment (Fig. 5). [[FIGURE]] Altogether, these results indicate a well-defined kinetic pattern of aquaporin gene expression in roots exposed to salt treatment. In particular, our study revealed that the highly expressed aquaporin genes showed coordinated reduction of expression by salt, consistent with the long-term inhibition of Lpr. The kinetics of aquaporin expression in roots was also investigated using immunodetection methods. For this, we used antibodies raised against peptides derived from AtPIP1;1 and AtPIP2;1 (CITATION), and γ-VM23, a radish TIP homolog (CITATION). Because of sequence conservation between aquaporin homologs, these antibodies are predicted to cross-react with several Arabidopsis isoforms of the PIP1 subfamily (PIP1;1–PIP1;4), the PIP2 subfamily (PIP2;1–PIP2;3), and the TIP1 subfamily (TIP1;1 and TIP1;2), respectively. Immunoblot analyses of total root protein extracts revealed major bands at approximately 25 (TIP1) and 50 kD (PIP1 and PIP2), consistent with detection of full-length aquaporin peptides migrating as monomeric or dimeric forms (Fig. 6A). To better resolve possible kinetic differences in abundance of aquaporins following exposure of roots to salinity, the extracts were also analyzed by ELISA tests. Figure 6B shows that the signal from the anti-PIP1 antibody was significantly decreased by 30% to 40% (P < 0.05) as soon as 30 min after salt exposure and then remained constant for up to 24 h of treatment. In contrast, the signal from the anti-PIP2 antibody was not altered after up to 6 h of treatment, but a marked drop in intensity by 40% was observed after 24 h. Similarly, the anti-TIP1 antibody yielded a signal that was fairly constant after exposure to salt, with the exception of a 24-h treatment where a slight, but significant, decrease by 20% was observed. In conclusion, the data show that PIP1, PIP2, and TIP1 aquaporins all exhibited a reduced abundance after 24 h of salt exposure, but there was no coordinated change in abundance of these three aquaporin classes in the early phase (≤6 h) of the treatment. [[FIGURE]] Transgenic Arabidopsis expressing a green florescent protein (GFP) fused with either the N or the C terminus of representative PIP (PIP1;1 and PIP2;1) or TIP (TIP1;1 and TIP2;1) aquaporins were observed by laser-scanning confocal microscopy. Root cortical cells and apical cells (data not shown) of plants grown in standard hydroponic conditions revealed a consistent expression pattern of PIPs on the PM (Fig. 7, D and G) that paralleled the pattern of a GFP-low-temperature-inducible protein (LTP) fusion (Fig. 7A;CITATION) taken here as a reference marker for this membrane. Treatment of roots with 100 mm NaCl for 45 min altered neither the intensity of emitted fluorescence nor the subcellular staining pattern of fusions between GFP and PIP1;1 (Fig. 7E) and PIP2;1 (Fig. 7H). However, we observed after 2 h of salt treatment in a restricted number of cells (approximately 5%) the appearance of intracellular structures containing PIP1 or PIP2 homologs or LTP fused to GFP (Fig. 7, C, F, and I). [[FIGURE]] The localization in the TP of untreated control plants of fusions of TIPs with GFP was established from peripheral cell staining with intracellular invaginations that skirted the nucleus (Fig. 8, C and E) and by comparison to the pattern of AtNRAMP3-GFP (Fig. 8A), used here as a reference marker of the TP (CITATION). Salt treatment of TIP1;1-GFP plants induced, as early as 45 min, the labeling of small spherical intracellular bodies tentatively identified as double-membrane vacuolar invaginations (bulbs; Fig. 8D). This labeling coexisted with labeling of adjacent TP regions that delimit the overall vacuolar lumen. This pattern was consistently observed in 19 salt-treated plants and was never observed in 33 untreated plants. Bulb structures were initially described in expanding cotyledon and hypocotyl cells of Arabidopsis plantlets, but in the absence of any external stimulus (CITATION). These structures were revealed by labeling with a TIP1;1-GFP fusion similar to the one used in this work. By contrast to TIP1;1-GFP, fusions between GFP and AtNRAMP3 (Fig. 8B) and TIP2;1 (Fig. 8F) did not label the bulbs, but only adjacent TP regions in salt-treated Arabidopsis roots. Overall, salt exposure had no quantitative or qualitative effect on the labeling pattern of these two TP fusion proteins. [[FIGURE]] Altogether, these data show that salt treatment can induce, although in a restricted number of cells, the partial subcellular relocalization of aquaporins in the Arabidopsis root. These effects were isoform-specific in the case of TIPs.
!~MM~! For determining the specificity of macroarray hybridizations, we used Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Wassilewskija) plants that were either wild type or carried an Agrobacterium tumefaciens-transferred DNA insertion within the PIP2;2 gene (pip2;2-2 line; CITATION). The effects of salt were characterized in wild-type and sos2-1 Arabidopsis (ecotype Columbia [Col-0]). Seedlings were cultured in vitro for 10 d and further transplanted into hydroponic culture as previously described (CITATION). Briefly, plantlets were mounted on 30- × 30- × 1.8-cm polystyrene rafts (9–15 plants per raft) floating in a basin with 8 L of aerated culture solution [1.25 mm KNO3, 0.75 mm MgSO4, 1.5 mm Ca(NO3)2, 0.5 mm KH2PO4, 50 μm FeEDTA, 50 μm H3BO3, 12 μm MnSO4, 0.7 μm CuSO4, 1 μm ZnSO4, 0.24 μm MoO4Na2, 100 μm Na2SiO3) and grown in a growth chamber at 70% relative humidity with cycles of 16 h of light (180 μE m−2 s−1) at 22°C and 8 h of dark at 21°C. Culture solution was replaced weekly. For gene expression analyses, the nutrient solution was complemented or not by 100 mm NaCl at day 20 after transfer in hydroponics. Treatments of various durations, as indicated in the text, were administered sequentially in order to collect all plant materials within 20 min, starting 11 h after the onset of the subjective day period. Thus, possible diurnal fluctuations of aquaporin gene expression could be excluded from kinetic analyses of salt effects. Plant material corresponding to the same time point was harvested in less than 1 min and stored at −80°C prior to RNA isolation. For water transport assays and for microscopic observations, plants were used 20 to 25 d after transfer in hydroponic culture at any time of the subjective day. Measurements were performed essentially as described by CITATION and CITATION. Briefly, the root system of a freshly detopped Arabidopsis plant was inserted into a pressure chamber filled with the same nutrient solution as applied to the intact root. The hypocotyl was carefully threaded through the soft plastic washer of the metal lid and connected to a dry 50-μL glass micropipette using a low-viscosity dental paste (President Light; Coltene). Pressure was then slowly applied to the chamber, using nitrogen gas, and the rate of exuded sap flow was determined over successive 5- to 20-min periods for stabilized hydrostatic pressures between 0.15 and 0.8 MPa. The exuded sap filling the micropipette was collected, and, at the end of the measurement series, the root system was removed and root DW was measured. The hydraulic conductivity of an individual root system (Lpr; in mL g−1 h−1 MPa−1) was calculated from the slope of a plot, rate of flow versus driving pressure, divided by the DW of the root system. The osmolality of exuded sap was measured by freezing-point depression osmometry. One to 2 g of frozen roots were ground under liquid nitrogen, resuspended in 10 mL of homogenization buffer (4 m guanidine thiocyanate, 100 mm NaCl, 10 mm EDTA, 7 mm β-mercaptoethanol, 0.5% IGEPAL CA-630, 25 mm Tris-Cl, pH 7.6), incubated for 5 min at 60°C, and centrifuged at 10,000g for 10 min at 4°C. The supernatant was extracted twice with phenol:chloroform:isoamyl alcohol (25:24:1; v/v/v), once with chloroform:isoamyl alcohol (100:1; v/v), and then precipitated with an equal volume of isopropanol in the presence of 0.3 m sodium acetate. The subsequent pellet was resuspended in 3 mL diethylpyrocarbonate-treated water, cleared for insoluble materials, and precipitated again overnight at 4°C in the presence of 2 m LiCl and 0.5 mm MgCl2. Total RNA was recovered by centrifugation at 10,000g for 30 min at 4°C, washed with 70% (v/v) ethanol twice, resuspended in diethylpyrocarbonate-treated water, quantified by optical density measurements at 260 nm, and stored at −80°C until use. Sequence analyses were essentially based on existing Arabidopsis aquaporin gene annotations (CITATION; CITATION). For each aquaporin gene, we considered the DNA sequence encompassing the putative coding sequence surrounded by up to 200 and 300 bp of the 5′ and 3′ untranslated transcribed regions, respectively. Where possible, these regions were more specifically delimited on the basis of published cDNA sequences and putative polyadenylation signals. To identify transcribed GSTs of >200 bp, the 35 aquaporin gene sequences were aligned using the ClustalW and Lfasta programs. Sequences as close as possible to the 3′ end of the expressed sequence were preferred. Candidate GSTs were further tested by pairwise alignments using an Lfasta program to ensure that the maximum identity between selected aquaporin sequences did not exceed 80% in a >22-bp overlapping region and 85% in a 10- to 20-bp overlapping region (CITATION). The specificity of the GSTs was also examined using BLAST analyses against the entire Arabidopsis genome. GSTs were more specifically defined to be bordered by gene-specific 18- to 26-bp primers with a melting temperature between 50°C and 60°C. The sequences of primers used for amplification of GSTs are provided in Table II. Sequence of primers used for amplification of GSTs of aquaporin genes in Arabidopsis All GSTs were amplified by RT-PCR amplification, using, if not specified, cDNA from an Arabidopsis cell suspension (CITATION). GSTs specific for SIP2;1, NIP4;1, TIP2;1, TIP2;3, TIP3;1, TIP3;2, and TIP4;1 failed to be amplified from this material and were obtained from Arabidopsis seedling cDNA. A fragment specific for SIP1;2 was obtained from expressed sequence tag clone RZ107g09 (Kazusa DNA Research Institute; CITATION). Consequently, none of the 32 aquaporin GSTs was amplified from genomic DNA. For all amplifications, we used a touchdown PCR method with an annealing temperature reduced over eight cycles from 62°C to 55°C, and stabilized at 55°C over the 30 subsequent cycles. The amplified aquaporin sequences were cloned into the EcoRV site of pBluescript II KS (+) (Stratagene). All recombinant plasmids were sequenced to check the validity of the amplified GST. The aquaporin target DNA to be spotted was amplified by PCR from 1 ng each of the plasmids described above, using primer KS17 (5′-CGA GGT CGA CGG TAT CG-3′) and SK21 (5′-CCG CTC TAG AAC TAG TGG ATC-3′). These primers, which annealed at −11 bp and +22 bp away from the EcoRV cloning site of pBluescript II KS (+), respectively, were selected to reduce the amount of amplified linker sequences. All PCR products were extracted with chloroform, precipitated with ethanol, and then washed twice with 70% ethanol. PCR products were checked by agarose gel electrophoresis, quantified by optical density measurements at 260 nm, and resuspended at a final concentration of 0.5 mg mL−1. To check the specificity and sensitivity of hybridization signals, and also standardize the data after hybridization, control cDNA fragments were also arrayed on the membrane. Positive controls included genes known to be expressed in Arabidopsis, such as ACT2 (CITATION), CCR2 (CITATION), histone H3, and EF1-α (CITATION). Negative controls included the cDNAs of human nebulin, desmin, DNA of an empty pBluescript II KS (+) vector, and sonicated fish sperm DNA (CITATION). We also included cDNA fragments from four abiotic stress-regulated genes such as abscisic acid- and drought-responsive RAB18 and AtDI21 (CITATION), and water-stress-responsive RD29A and RD29B (CITATION). In total, duplicates of 57 samples, including 32 aquaporin GSTs and various controls, were deposited onto 3.5- × 5.5-cm Appligene positive nylon membranes using a robotic arrayer (BioGrid; BioRobotics) with five hits on each spot (approximately 100 ng DNA/spot). After denaturation for 2 × 10 min in 1.5 m NaCl, 0.5 m NaOH, and neutralization for 2 × 10 min in 1.5 m NaCl, 1 m Tris-Cl, pH 7.4, DNA samples were air dried at 80°C for 2 h and cross-linked by UV radiation at 230 nm for 75 s. Membranes were conserved at room temperature until use. Total RNA (30 μg) was incubated for 1 h at 42°C in the presence of 8 μg oligo(dT)25, 1 mm dATP, 1 mm dTTP, 1 mm dGTP, 40 μCi [α-33P]-dCTP, 10 mm dithiothreitol, 400 units SuperScript II (Life Technologies), or 800 units RT-Moloney murine leukemia virus (Promega) in its running buffer, in a total volume of 30 μL. The RNA template was then hydrolyzed in the presence of 0.3 n NaOH for 30 min at 65°C. The mixture was then neutralized with 0.2 n HCl, 0.3 m Tris-Cl, pH 8.3, ethanol precipitated in the presence of 1 mg mL−1 sonicated fish sperm DNA or purified on a Sephacryl 100 column. Incorporation of [α-33P]-dCTP was determined by scintillation counting. After denaturation for 5 min at 95°C in the presence of 5 μg oligo A80, the probe was used for hybridization at a final concentration of 1.5 to 2.0 × 106 cpm mL−1. Membranes were hybridized overnight at 48°C in a hybridization buffer (50% formamide, 8% dextran sulfate, 4× SSC, 10× Denhardt, 0.5% SDS, 1 mm EDTA, 100 μg mL−1 denatured sonicated fish sperm DNA, 50 mm NaH2PO4, pH 7.2) containing cDNA complex probes labeled as described above. Membranes were then washed at 48°C, successively for 2 × 15 min in 2× SSC, 0.1% SDS, for 15 min in 1× SSC, 0.1% SDS, and for 2 × 15 min in 0.1× SSC, 0.1% SDS. To evaluate the homogeneity of target DNA spotting, membranes were subsequently hybridized to a 33P-labeled oligonucleotide probe BS20 (5′-ATCGAATTCCTGCAGCCCGG-3′). This 20-bp sequence located in the amplified vector linker is common to all target DNA fragments. Filters were hybridized at 48°C to 33P-BS20 in a solution containing 6× SSC, 0.5% SDS, 5× Denhardt, and 20 μg mL−1 denatured sonicated fish sperm DNA. After hybridization, membranes were washed as described above, except that the last wash was at room temperature. Membranes were exposed to the imaging plate of a Kodak storage phosphor screen GP (Eastman-Kodak) or a Fuji BAS-MS 3543 (Fuji Photo Film) for varying periods. Hybridization signals were captured using a Storm 840 PhosphorImager (Molecular Dynamics) with a resolution of 50 μm. Identification and quantification of the hybridization signals, as well as the subtraction of local background values, were carried out using ImageMaster array 3.01c (Amersham-Pharmacia Biotech). For each membrane spot, the signal intensity of hybridization to a complex probe (IcDNA) was reported to the signal intensity of hybridization to the BS20 oligonucleotide probe (Ioligo), yielding a normalized signal I = IcDNA/Ioligo. Background signal (Ineg) was calculated as the mean signal from all negative control genes. A hybridization signal was considered as significantly over background for I > Ineg + 2 sd. For each individual kinetic experiment, manipulations corresponding to all time points (i.e. mRNA extraction, cDNA labeling, membrane hybridization, and exposure to PhosphorImager) were run in parallel. This provided a high reproducibility between independent membranes for a given time point and high consistency between distinct time points. We also used a set of 50 independently chosen Arabidopsis cDNAs as a supposedly invariable reference for comparison of data between time points. In practice, a correction factor between two time points was deduced from a linear regression on a log-log representation of hybridization signals of the reference cDNAs in the two time points. For comparison of two independent kinetic experiments, we determined a normalization factor based on comparison of initial time points of the two experiments. This factor was deduced from a linear regression on a log-log representation of hybridization signals of all aquaporins in the two initial time points. The factor was then converted for a linear representation of data and used to normalize all time points of the same kinetic experiment. Roots (0.4–0.8 g fresh weight [FW]) were harvested from Arabidopsis plants grown in a nutrient solution as indicated and ground in liquid nitrogen. The resulting powder was incubated with 1 mL of 10% trichloroacetic acid, 0.07% β-mercaptoethanol in acetone for 30 min at −20°C, and centrifuged at 4°C for 10 min at 40,000g. The pellet was washed twice with acetone, 0.07% β-mercaptoethanol, and resuspended in 1 mL/mg FW of a lysis buffer (9 m urea, 4% CHAPS, 0.5% Triton X-100, 65 mm dithiothreitol). After 30 min under agitation, the extract was centrifuged for 10 min at 10,000g and the supernatant containing total proteins recovered. Protein concentrations were measured using a modified Bradford procedure (CITATION). Antibodies were raised in rabbit against a 42-amino acid N-terminal peptide of AtPIP1;1, a 17-amino acid C-terminal peptide of AtPIP2;1 (CITATION), or a 14-amino acid C-terminal peptide of VM23, a radish (Raphanus sativus) TIP1 homolog (CITATION). Western blotting was performed as described (CITATION). For ELISA assays, serial 2-fold dilutions in a carbonate buffer (0.03 m Na2CO3, 0.06 m NaHCO3, pH 9.5) of 2.4 μg of total protein extracts were loaded in duplicate on immunoplates (Maxisorp). After overnight incubation at 4°C, the plates were rinsed once with phosphate-buffered saline (PBS; 137 mm NaCl, 2.7 mm KCl, 10 mm Na2HPO4, 2 mm KH2PO4, pH 7.4) and incubated for 1 h with PBS-TB (PBS plus 0.1% Tween 20, 1% bovine serum albumin) at 37°C. The plates were then rinsed three times with PBS-T (PBS, 0.1% Tween 20) and incubated with a 1:2,000 dilution of a primary antiaquaporin antibody. After 2 h at 37°C, the plates were washed five times with PBS-T and further incubated for 2 h at 37°C in the presence of a 1:2,500 dilution of a secondary peroxidase-coupled anti-rabbit antibody. After five washes in PBS, a peroxidase reaction was initiated by addition of 0.23 mm diammonium 2,2′-azino-bis-3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonate, 0.1 m citric acid, 0.03% H2O2, pH 4.35. A linear regression between the absorbance signal as read with a multiplate reader (Victor; Perkin-Elmer) and the amount of total proteins was obtained for each sample and used for relative comparison between samples. All constructs were made using Gateway cloning technology (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer's instructions. The cDNAs of all 35 Arabidopsis aquaporins were PCR amplified with primers allowing the addition of attB recombination sites and cloned into a pDONR 207 vector using a Gateway BP Clonase enzyme mix (Invitrogen). The cDNAs were then transferred into the binary destination vectors pGWB5 and pGWB6 (Dr. Nakagawa, Shimane University, Matsue, Japan) by using a Gateway LR Clonase enzyme mix (Invitrogen). The pGWB5 and pGWB6 vectors allow fusion of GFP with the aquaporin C terminus (AQP-GFP) or N terminus (GFP-AQP), respectively, and expression of the resulting cDNA is placed under the control of a cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and of the 3′ untranslated transcribed region of a NOS gene. All constructs were checked by DNA sequencing (Genome-Express). A. tumefaciens strain GV3101 (pMP90) was transformed with the pGWB constructs selected for rifampicin (50 mg L−1) and kanamycin (50 mg L−1) resistance, and used for transformation of Arabidopsis Col-0 by the floral-dip method (CITATION). To select for transformed plants, seeds were surface sterilized and germinated on cleared polystyrene culture boxes (12 × 12 cm) containing a half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium (CITATION) complemented with 7 g L−1 agar, 40 mg L−1 hygromycin, pH 6, in a controlled environment at 24°C under 16 h of light/d (50–100 μE m−2 s−1). After 7 to 10 d, hygromycin-resistant seedlings were transplanted into potting soil and grown to maturity. Plants containing the following constructs, PIP1;1-GFP, PIP1;2-GFP, GFP-PIP2;1, PIP2;1-GFP, GFP-TIP1;1, and TIP1;1-GFP were obtained using the procedure in this work. Transgenics plants expressing GFP-PIP1;2, GFP-PIP2;1, and GFP-TIP2;1 were those described by CITATION. Transgenic Arabidopsis plantlets grown on half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium without any antibiotic selection were screened for GFP expression using an Olympus BX610 microscope equipped with an epifluorescence condenser and a fluorescein isothiocyanate/enhanced GFP/bodypy/fluo3 filter set. Observations of transgenic root cells treated or not with salt were conducted on hydroponically grown plants with an inverted confocal laser-scanning microscope (Zeiss LSM 510 AX70). The argon laser excitation wavelength was 488 nm; GFP emission was detected with the filter set for fluorescein isothiocyanate (BP 500 to 530). Plants were transferred into a nutrient solution complemented or not by 100 mm NaCl and the GFP signal was examined after 45 or 120 min of treatment on a sample of root tissue under a glass coverslip. Transgenic plants expressing a GFP-LTP fusion (CITATION) or a NRAMP3-GFP (CITATION) were used as references for GFP signal localization in the PM and TP, respectively. Depending on treatments and genotypes, the number of individual plants analyzed was between 4 and 33. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers as described by CITATION
