!~ABS~! Overexpression of the mammalian proapoptotic protein Bax induces cell death in plant and yeast cells. The Bax inihibitor-1 (BI-1) gene rescues yeast and plant from Bax-mediated lethality. Using the Arabidopsis BI-1 (AtBI-1) gene controlled by the GAL1 promoter as a cell death suppressor in yeast, Cdf1 (cell growth defect factor-1) was isolated from Arabidopsis cDNA library. Overexpression of Cdf1 caused cell death in yeast, whereas such an effect was suppressed by co-expression of AtBI-1. The Cdf1 protein fused with a green fluorescent protein was localized in the mitochondria and resulted in the loss of mitochondrial membrane potential in yeast. The Bax-resistant mutant BRM1 demonstrated tolerance against Cdf1-mediated lethality, whereas the Δatp4 strain was sensitive to Cdf1. Our results suggest that Cdf1 and Bax cause mitochondria-mediated yeast lethality through partially overlapped pathways. 
!~RES~! Screening of Plant Genes with Growth Suppression Effect Inhibited by AtBI-1—BI-1 is an antiapoptotic factor that can inhibit Bax-induced cell death in mammalian, plant, and yeast cells (CITATION, CITATION). To screen plant genes that can induce Bax-like cell death, we utilized the yeast system. Wild type yeast strain W303-1A harboring NMV4-AtBI-1, which produces AtBI-1 under the control of galactose-inducible GAL1 promoter, was transformed with the Arabidopsis cDNA library (TPI promoter) and plated on the SD-galactose medium. To obtain clones that were growth-inhibited on glucose-containing medium, these transformants were duplicated onto the SD-glucose plate. After 2 days of incubation at 30 °C, clones that survived on galactose-containing medium but were growth inhibited on the glucose medium were picked up. Plasmids were isolated from the candidate clones, followed by DNA sequencing. Through successive screening of 2 × 104 transformants, a single clone containing Arabidopsis cDNA (At5g23040) was isolated and named Cdf1 (cell growth defect factor-1). We found two more possible Cdf homologues in the Arabidopsis genome, At3g51140 and At2g20929. As shown in Fig. 1, Cdf-related genes were conserved in plant species. The Cdf1 encoded a polypeptide of 258 amino acids and had an estimated molecular mass of 28.8 kDa. The Cdf1 protein showed sequence homology to At3g51140 (32.9%), At2g20920 (22.4%), and Synechocystis slr1918 (23.5%). These proteins have no reported homology with any known animal protein and do not contain any recognizable protein motifs. Hydrophobicity analysis revealed that Cdf1 and At3g5r1140 contained three transmembrane domains, whereas other Cdf-related proteins, including Synechocystis slr1918 and At2g20920, possessed four transmembrane domains.  Cdf1 Induces Yeast Cell Death in a Bax-like Manner—To confirm the activity of Cdf1 as a cell growth suppressor, isolated cDNA was connected under the GAL1 promoter, and plasmid pTS-Cdf1 was constructed. Yeast strains transformed with pTS, pTS-Cdf1, and pTS-Bax were cultured in SD-glucose medium for 1 day and subjected to the spot assay (Fig. 2 A). Cdf1 showed yeast growth inhibitory effects.  To clarify the intracellular localization of Cdf1 protein in yeast, a plasmid containing Cdf1 fused to the N terminus of GFP was constructed. The yeast cells expressing Cdf1-GFP demonstrated similar growth defect as those expressing Cdf1 alone (data not shown). After 4 h of culture in the SD-galactose liquid medium, yeast cells expressing both Cdf1-GFP and mt-RFP were collected and observed under a fluorescent microscope. As shown in Fig. 2B, the fluorescence signals of Cdf1-GFP and mt-RFP were co-localized and showed punctate structures. To make clear the mitochondrial shape in yeast expressing Cdf1, yeast cells expressing Cdf1 and mt-GFP were also observed under a fluorescent microscope. As shown in Fig. 2C, without Cdf1 or Bax expression the mitochondria kept an elongated shape. On the other hand, Cdf1 or Bax caused dramatic morphological change in mitochondria. We then visualized functional mitochondria with a transmembrane potential using MitoTracker Red, a vital mitochondrial fluorescent probe (Fig. 2B). In GFP-expressing yeast cells, MitoTracker Red clearly stained active elongated mitochondria. In contrast, the expression of Cdf1-GFP caused the loss of mitochondrial membrane potential (Fig. 2D.    [[FIGURE]] To evaluate whether Cdf1 induces cell death in yeast, we counted the number of dead cells by Evans blue staining. As shown in Fig. 3, A and C, ∼20% of cells started to die after 14 h of Cdf1 expression. One of the key mechanisms that trigger the Bax-mediated lethality in yeast is production of ROS (CITATION). To detect ROS generation, 2,7-dichlorodihydrofluorescein diacetate was used. This reagent diffuses through cell membranes and is subsequently enzymatically deacetylated by intracellular esterases to the non-fluorescent molecules; then it is oxidized by ROS to the highly fluorescent dichlorofluorescein (CITATION). To determine whether Cdf1-induced growth defect in yeast is also accompanied by ROS generation, Cdf1-expressing yeast cells cultured in SD-galactose medium were stained with 2,7-dichlorodihydrofluorescein diacetate. As shown in Fig. 3, B and C, fluorescence was noted in ∼50% of cells expressing Cdf1 or Bax after 9 h of culture. The majority of cells of the control strain with an empty vector showed no fluorescence. As shown in Fig. 3C, the ROS generation preceded dead cell stimulation.  Electron microscopic examination of Cdf1- and Bax-expressing cells revealed extensive disorganization of intracellular structures. Numerous cells showed morphological change of nuclei, accumulation of autophagic bodies, and increased intracellular vacuolization (Fig. 3D). In contrast, intracellular structures of control cells possessing empty vector were homogenous in shape and cytoplasmic electron density.  BI-1 Suppresses Cdf1-induced Lethality—As a first step toward determining the role played by this protein, we tested whether the mammalian Bcl-2 and plant BI-1 (OsBI-1 and AtBI-1) genes could suppress the Cdf1-induced growth defect in yeast. The expression plasmids containing Bcl-2, AtBI-1, and OsBI-1 (pYX-Bcl-2, AtBI-1, and OsBI-1) were transformed into a yeast strain containing galactose-inducible Cdf1 plasmid (pTS-Cdf1). As shown in Fig. 4A, when plated on the galactose medium the cells transformed with AtBI-1 and OsBI-1 demonstrated partial recovery of cell growth, whereas the cells transformed with empty vector and Bcl-2 did not. As shown in Fig. 4B, AtBI-1 suppressed the cell death caused by Cdf1 or Bax expression, whereas the ROS generation was not suppressed. Furthermore, BI-1 suppressed the loss of mitochondrial membrane potential as shown by the stainability with MitoTracker Red. In contrast, morphological change of mitochondria was not prohibited by the BI-1 expression (data not shown).  Cdf1-mediated Lethality in Bax-resistant Mutants—To further analyze the Cdf1-mediated yeast cell death, Bax-resistant yeast strains (BRM1 and Δatp4) were used. An unknown genetic mutation in BRM1 results in resistance against Bax-induced lethality (CITATION). It was also demonstrated that disruption of the ATP4 gene caused tolerance to Bax (CITATION, CITATION). Using these strains, a growth assay was performed to clarify whether Cdf1- and Bax-mediated effects are similar in terms of the cell death inducer in yeast. Wild type strains (EGY48 for BRM1 and W303-1A for Δatp4) and mutant strains were transformed with pTS-Bax or pTS-Cdf1, respectively. Yeast cells cultured in SD-glucose for 1 day were transferred to the SD-galactose medium for 8 h, and their growth (A600) was determined. As shown in Fig. 5A, the BRM1 strain was resistant against both Bax- and Cdf1-induced growth defect. In contrast, the Δatp4 strain demonstrated tolerance against Bax but sensitivity to Cdf1-mediated effect (Fig. 5B). The same results were obtained by the Evans blue staining method (data not shown).    [[FIGURE]] Expression Pattern of Cdf Gene in Plant Tissues—To confirm the expression of Cdf1 in plants, mRNA accumulation was examined in several tissues obtained from 3-week-old Arabidopsis plants. Cdf1 showed higher expression in the above ground parts (leaf, stem, and flower) (Fig. 6A). We then examined the possible involvement of this gene in the leaf senescence stage. Leaf senescence is also known to be one of the stages of programmed cell death in plant species (reviewed in Ref. CITATION). Northern blot analysis of total RNAs isolated from mature and senescent leaves of 8-week-old plants showed enhanced expression of Cdf1 in the senescent leaves (Fig. 6B). 
!~MM~! Yeast Strains and Methods—S. cerevisiae strain W303-1A (MATa leu2 his3 trp1 ade2 ura3 can1) was used in the present study. Bax- resistant mutant (BRM1) and its wild type (EGY48) strains were kindly provided by Dr. J. C. Reed (The Burnham Institute, La Jolla, CA). To obtain the Δatp4 strain, the ATP4 gene was disrupted in the W303-1A strain by HIS3 insertional mutagenesis. Yeast strains were cultured in YPD (1% yeast extract, 2% peptone, and 2% dextrose) or SD medium with appropriate supplements at 30 °C. Yeast transformation was performed by the lithium acetate method.  Screening of the Arabidopsis cDNA That Causes Growth Defect in Yeast—Screening of the cDNA library was based on the rescue of a growth defect in yeast by AtBI-1 gene, which is a suppressor of Bax-mediated yeast lethality. The Arabidopsis cDNAs that cause yeast growth inhibition and whose effects are inhibited by AtBI-1 were identified. Thus, wild type yeast strain W303-1A, possessing galactose-inducible AtBI-1 gene (NMV4-AtBI-1, constructed using pYX112-AtBI-1 as described in Ref. CITATION), was transformed with Arabidopsis cDNA library (in pYX112 expression vector, TPI promoter (CITATION) and plated onto the SD-galactose solid medium in which AtBI-1 is expressed. The transformants were replicated to a SD-glucose plate to obtain a clone that survives on the galactose-containing medium, but not on glucose-containing medium. The plasmid was recovered from each candidate clone and re-introduced into a W303-1A to confirm the reproducibility. The isolated cDNA (Cdf1) was connected under the GAL1 promoter, and the resultant plasmid, pTS-Cdf1, was used for further analysis.  Plasmid Construction and Spot Assay—The coding regions of Cdf1 and the mammalian apoptotic gene Bax, tagged with SphI recognition sequence using the PCR method, were introduced into a SphI-digested pTS909 expression vector (GAL1 promoter, a Trp-marked, 2-μm replicon; a kind gift from Dr. Y. Kikuchi, University of Tokyo, Japan). For the expression of the Cdf1-GFP fusion protein, the same fragment was cloned into the pTS909-GFP plasmid. To express the mammalian anti-apoptotic gene Bcl-2, the coding region tagged with the EcoRI recognition sequence was ligated to the EcoRI site of the expression vector pYX112 (TPI promoter, a Ura-marked, 2-μm replicon). The expression vectors pYX112-AtBI-1 and pYX112-OsBI-1 used in this study have been described previously (CITATION). The mouse Bax and rat Bcl-2 genes were kindly provided by Dr. J. C. Reed (The Burnham Institute).  In the spot assay, yeast cells grown in SD-glucose medium for 1 day were adjusted to A600 of 0.1, and diluted to various concentrations (A600 = 0.1, 0.05, 0.01, 0.005, 0.001, and 0.0005). The aliquot (5 μl) from each dilution was spotted onto SD-glucose or SD-galactose medium and incubated for 2 days (glucose medium) or 3 days (galactose medium) at 30 °C.  Cytological Analysis—Microscopic examination was conducted using a fluorescent microscope system (DMRD; Leica, Wetzlar, Germany). For the detection of GFP fluorescence, yeast strains cultured in SD-glucose medium for 1 day were switched to SD-galactose medium for 4 h and examined at a 488-nm excitation wavelength. The plasmids pYX142-mt-gfp and p414GPD-mt-RFP, used for the observation of mitochondrial morphology, were kindly provided by Dr. K. Okamoto (University of Utah School of Medicine). To visualize active mitochondria with a transmembrane potential, yeast cells were stained with the fluorescent probe MitoTracker Red (650 nm; Invitrogen) for 5 min and examined under a fluorescent microscope at a wavelength of 568 nm. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation was monitored by treatment with 2,7-dichlorodihydrofluorescein diacetate (0.1 mm; Funakoshi, Tokyo, Japan) for 5 min and observed under a fluorescent microscope.  The number of viable cells was counted by the addition of Evans blue (0.05%, Nakalai, Kyoto, Japan), which penetrates only dead cells and results in blue staining of the cellular contents (CITATION). The percentage of dead cells under each treatment was determined by scoring several hundred cells under the microscope.  For electron microscopic analysis, yeast cells cultured on the SD-galactose plate for 3 days were fixed by the freeze-substitution method, treated with 4% osmium tetraoxide (OsO4), and embedded in Spurr's resin. Serial sections stained with uranyl acetate and lead citrate (UA/Pb) were observed using the electron microscope (Hitachi H-7600; Hitachi High Technologies, Tokyo, Japan).  Northern Blot Analysis—Total RNAs were isolated from various tissues (leaf, stem, flower, and root of 3-week-old Arabidopsis plants, 3-day-old suspension cells, and mature or senescent leaves of 8-week-old plants) using the guanidinium thiocyanate method as described previously (CITATION). Total RNAs, electrophoresed on a denaturing 1.2% agarose gel, were transferred onto a nylon membrane (Biodyne B; Pall Biosupport Division, Port Washington, NY) and then hybridized to the 32P-labeled, 3′-untranslated region fragment of Cdf1 in 10% dextran sulfate, 1 m NaCl, 1% SDS, and 0.1 μg/ml heat-denatured salmon testis DNA. Washing was performed under high stringency conditions (0.1× SSC, 0.1% SDS at 65 °C). The membrane was analyzed with a BAS1500 imaging plate scanner (Fuji Film, Tokyo, Japan). 
