!~ABS~! This study presents an analysis of the stromal proteome in its oligomeric state extracted from highly purified chloroplasts of Arabidopsis thaliana. 241 proteins (88% with predicted cTP), mostly assembled in oligomeric complexes, were identified by mass spectrometry with emphasis on distinguishing between paralogues. This is critical because different paralogues in a gene family often have different subcellular localizations and/or different expression patterns and functions. The native protein masses were determined for all identified proteins. Comparison with the few well characterized stromal complexes from A. thaliana confirmed the accuracy of the native mass determination, and by extension, the usefulness of the native mass data for future in-depth protein interaction studies. Resolved protein interactions are discussed and compared with an extensive collection of native mass data of orthologues in other plants and bacteria. Relative protein expression levels were estimated from spot intensities and also provided estimates of relative concentrations of individual proteins. No such quantification has been reported so far. Surprisingly proteins dedicated to chloroplast protein synthesis, biogenesis, and fate represented nearly 10% of the total stroma protein mass. Oxidative pentose phosphate pathway, glycolysis, and Calvin cycle represented together about 75%, nitrogen assimilation represented 5–7%, and all other pathways such as biosynthesis of e.g. fatty acids, amino acids, nucleotides, tetrapyrroles, and vitamins B1 and B2 each represented less than 1% of total protein mass. Several proteins with diverse functions outside primary carbon metabolism, such as the isomerase ROC4, lipoxygenase 2 involved in jasmonic acid biosynthesis, and a carbonic anhydrase (CA1), were surprisingly abundant in the range of 0.75–1.5% of the total stromal mass. Native images with associated information are available via the Plastid Proteome Database. 
!~RES~! Purified intact chloroplasts were lysed under non-denaturing conditions, and chloroplast stromal proteins and protein complexes were separated based on native mass using CN-PAGE (CITATION) followed by complete denaturation and separation by SDS-PAGE. Proteins were visualized by Coomassie staining of preparative gels for mass spectrometry analysis (Fig. 1, A and B) or by SYPRO Ruby staining of analytical gels for quantification (Fig. 1, C and D). The smaller figures (Fig. 1, B and D) are from independent preparations and show that these CN-PAGE gel patterns are reproducible, supporting the notion that CN-PAGE gels are an excellent tool for proteome analysis. Proteins were identified by MALDI-TOF MS peptide mass fingerprinting and/or nano-LC-ESI-MS/MS followed by Mascot search against the TAIR database. In the analysis of the MS data, an effort was made to distinguish between members of the same gene family (paralogues). These search results were automatically filtered using an in-house software routine2 followed by manual verification and additional quality control steps as detailed under “Experimental Procedures.”  [[FIGURE]] 241 non-redundant proteins were identified on the CN-PAGE gels (see the supplemental table and PPDB for interactive searches). The identified proteins were classified according to the hierarchical, non-redundant classification system developed for MapMan (CITATION) (gabi.rzpd.de/projects/MapMan/) adjusted after in-house manual verification and information from the literature. The MapMan system has 35 main functional categories or Bins with a larger number of Subbins (subcategories) (see also ppdb.tc.cornell.edu/mapman.aspx). To our surprise, proteins involved in folding, proteolysis, and sorting (Bins 29.3–29.9) represented the largest functional category in the stroma (14%) closely followed by proteins related to protein synthesis (Bins 29.1 and 29.2) (12%) (Table I). 21% of the identified proteins were involved in secondary metabolism, covering amino acid metabolism (7%), nucleotide synthesis and degradation (4%), tetrapyrrole synthesis (6%), and enzymes involved in synthesis of vitamins B1 and B2, isoprenes, jasmonic acid, and lipids/fatty acids (4%). As expected, proteins involved in primary carbon metabolism, such as the Calvin cycle, OPPP, and glycolysis represented a population of significant number (12%) and abundance representing ∼76% of the total stroma mass as determined from the relative spot intensities. Enzymes involved in starch synthesis and degradation (Bin 2) were also well represented. The function of 11% of the identified proteins was unknown (see the supplemental table and PPDB).  [[TABLE]] Cross-correlation of the identified proteins against other plant proteomic studies on A. thaliana plasma membranes (CITATION, CITATION), vacuole and tonoplast (CITATION, CITATION), the peroxisome (CITATION), the nucleus (CITATION), the cell wall (CITATION), and the hydrophobic mitochondrial membranes (CITATION) and a dozen other mitochondrial proteome analyses (from www.mitoz.bcs.uwa.edu.au/; see Ref. CITATION) did not suggest obvious contaminants from non-chloroplast locations. Further analysis suggested two to four potential contaminants from the cytosol and mitochondria as indicated in the supplemental table. In agreement with the low number of contaminants, 88% of the identified nuclear encoded proteins were predicted (TargetP, www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/) to be plastid-localized. This is slightly higher than the reported 85% sensitivity (or true positive identification rate) for TargetP (CITATION) and indicative of the high quality of this stromal data set. TargetP prediction for each protein is listed in the supplemental table. Seven proteins were chloroplast-encoded.  About 40% (over 100 proteins) were not observed in earlier A. thaliana chloroplast proteomic studies on the thylakoid and envelope membrane and their associated (stromal) proteins (CITATION, CITATION–CITATION) (for cross-correlation, see the supplemental table and PPDB). Predicted functions of these newly identified proteins include biosynthesis of amino acids, nucleotides, and proteins as well as secondary metabolism (e.g. tetrapyrrole, thiamine, isoprenoids, and hormones), and numerous proteins were without any predicted function.  A significant number of proteins were listed in the chloroplast analysis described in Ref. CITATION. However, this dataset is problematic because it appears to contain a large percentage (>40%) of non-chloroplast proteins as also reflected in the low percentage of chloroplast predicted proteins. This is either a consequence of experimental contaminants and/or the result of high rates of “false identifications” during the search with mass spectrometry data (for discussion see Ref. CITATION).  An important aspect of understanding plastid function is to determine the expression level and molar ratios between different plastid proteins in addition to their identification. Currently there is very little knowledge of the relative accumulation levels of the proteins in the chloroplast stroma. To this end, we quantified all 287 protein spots from analytical SYPRO Ruby-stained CN-PAGE gels of two independent chloroplast purifications and normalized those to total spot intensity (spot volume) of each gel. Proteins were identified in 251 spots, representing ∼99% of the total spot intensity (spot volume). As is apparent from the gel images in Fig. 1, just a handful of protein spots represent a large percentage of the total protein biomass of the stroma. The 23 most abundant stromal proteins (based on normalized spot volume(s)) or based on “relative normalized concentration” (calculated from normalized spot volume divided by the experimental molecular mass of the protein) are listed in Table II. Together they represent ∼85% of the total stromal protein mass, and their expression covers a dynamic range of 2 orders of magnitude. These proteins were also prominent from independent “shotgun” nano-LC-ESI-MS/MS analysis of the stroma.3 We will discuss these relative abundances further below, in connection with protein interactions and protein function. We do point out, however, that protein abundance was calculated from SYPRO Ruby-stained spot intensity. Because SYPRO Ruby binds preferentially to charged residues (lysine, arginine, and histidine) protein abundance is underestimated or overestimated if the proteins contain few or many charged residues, respectively.  [[TABLE]] As a first step in understanding the protein-protein interaction network of the chloroplast stromal proteome, we determined the native mass of the identified proteins on the CN-PAGE gels (Fig. 1 and supplemental table). The gels were calibrated with commercial native standards. The CN-PAGE gels resolved proteins in a molecular mass range from ∼ 20 to ∼950 kDa with ribosomes and other large protein complexes accumulating in the stacking gel in the first (native) dimension.  To compare these native mass data with existing data, we extensively searched the literature for mass information on closely related and more distant orthologues in and outside of plastids. Mass information from various species was found for 140 proteins of the 241 identified on our CN-PAGE gels, together representing 82 different monomeric proteins or protein complexes (supplemental table). For ∼70% of those 140 identified proteins the native mass deduced from the CN-PAGE gels is in approximate agreement with data from the literature. The native mass and estimated oligomeric state and references for selected proteins are listed in Table III. The complete dataset is available in the supplemental table. Thus our comprehensive experimental native data provide a resource and starting point when searching for potential stromal protein partners. One of the biggest surprises when searching the literature was that about 60% of the proteins were identified as homo-oligomeric complexes or monomers rather than heteromeric complexes. The potential significance will be discussed.  [[TABLE]] In the remaining sections, we will highlight novelties and new insights concerning specific proteins and protein complexes in terms of their relative abundance, native state, and functions. To facilitate comparison of relative abundances of different proteins, the spot volume(s) for each accession was divided by its denatured molecular mass, resulting in a relative concentration. Given the inaccuracies and pitfalls of quantification from spot intensities, we simplified these relative concentrations to a scale of 1–5 with each level representing 1 order of magnitude (supplemental table). This provides an immediate impression of the accumulation levels of the different functional categories as a group and for individual proteins within a functional class.  We experimentally identified 27 proteins associated with the Calvin cycle, glycolysis, OPPP, and photorespiration, representing about 76% of the total stromal protein mass (Table I).  The relative concentrations of these 27 proteins ranged from level 1 to 5 with the small and large subunits of Rubisco (RBCS and RBCL, respectively) at level 1, the other enzymes of the Calvin cycle mostly at levels 2 and 3, and specific enzymes of glycolysis and OPP at levels 3–5. We also identified 2-phosphoglycolate phosphatases 1 and 2 involved in photorespiration at level 3 as a dimer. The Rubisco complex needs to be activated by the reversible carbamylation of a lysine residue in RBLC (Lys-201) followed by rapid binding of magnesium. This process is regulated by Rubisco activase (RCA) (48). The relative concentration of RCA (At1g73110) was about 70 times less than RBCL and RBCS. Rubisco N-methyltransferase catalyzing N-methylation of RBCL (needed for an active enzyme) was ∼14.000 times less abundant than Rubisco.  Many of the enzymes in these three pathways form hetero- or homo-oligomeric complexes. The 550-kDa Rubisco complex is the most abundant and well studied example and forms a hetero-oligomer with eight small and eight large subunits. RCA was found in different native mass complexes (330, 480, 600, and 770 kDa and as a >950-kDa complex in the stacking gel) and is known to transiently associate with the Rubisco complex (for a review, see Ref. CITATION). Sedoheptulose/fructose-bisphosphate aldolase 1 and 2 (SFBA-1 or -2) (At2g21330 and At4g38970) were both found at 178 kDa, suggesting a homo- or heterotetrameric state. These aldolases are reported to form stromal homotetramers, whereas aldolases outside the chloroplast form dimers (CITATION, CITATION).  Starch and minor carbohydrate metabolism contribute to the carbohydrate storage and sugar diversity in plastids. We identified 12 proteins in this functional category with relative expression levels ranging from levels 3 to 5. These included two ADP-dependent pfkB carbohydrate kinases and SexI involved in starch phosphorylation control (CITATION, CITATION). Glucan phosphorylase-1 (At3g29320) (∼110 kDa), involved in phosphorolytic starch breakdown, forms a homodimer or heterodimer (CITATION, CITATION). We identified it on the stroma native gels at 233 kDa, corresponding to a dimer. α isoamylase, a starch debranching enzyme (At4g09020) of the hydrolytic or amylolytic pathway, was found in the stroma as a monomer. Aldose 1-epimerase (At5g66530) catalyzes the interconversion of the α- and β-anomers of hexose sugars such as glucose and galactose. Aldose 1-epimerase (35 kDa) acts as a dimer in Aspergillus niger (CITATION) and was indeed found on the CN-PAGE gel at 61 kDa.  This functional class was represented by just five proteins in agreement with the fact that these are mostly mitochondrial functions (tricarboxylic acid cycle) or present in different subcellular compartments (carbonic anhydrases). We identified two types of malate dehydrogenases (MDHs), differing in the choice of cofactor (NADP or NAD) and activation mechanism. Chloroplast NADP-MDH (At5g58330) catalyzes the reduction of oxaloacetate into l-malate and is involved in the export of reducing power from the chloroplast to the cytosol (the malate valve). We identified it predominantly at 323 kDa and to a lesser extent at 154 kDa. Chloroplast NADP-MDH (At3g47520; 37 kDa) was suggested to form a homodimer (CITATION), and we identified it at 96 kDa. The accumulation level of the NADPH form was higher than the NAD form in agreement with enzyme activity assays on purified Arabidopsis chloroplasts (CITATION). The Arabidopsis genome encodes some 15 different carbonic anhydrases. We identified an abundant (“at expression level 2”) carbonic anhydrase (CA1; At3g01500) at multiple native masses between ∼100 and 360 kDa in agreement with observations of homo-, octa-, and decameric states (59, 60). A second paralogue, CA2 (At5g14740), was identified ambiguously with CA1 at low levels (level 5).  Plastids play a vital functional role in sulfur and nitrogen assimilation with both elements used in amino acid biosynthesis. Chloroplasts import nitrite, which is converted by Fd-dependent nitrite reductase (NiR) into (toxic) ammonia followed by the glutamate- and ATP-dependent conversion into glutamine by glutamine synthase 2 (GS2) and subsequent conversion into glutamate by Fd- and α-ketoglutarate-dependent glutamate synthase (Glu1 or Fd-GOGAT-1). We identified and quantified each of these three key enzymes (At2g15620, At5g35630, and At5g04140) as a monomer (NiR) and at different native masses (GS2 and GOGAT). GS2 appears to have a high relative concentration in particular as compared with NiR. This is logical because 90% of the glutamine synthesized in leaf chloroplasts is derived from photorespiration rather than by chloroplast import of nitrate and subsequent reduction to nitrite (for discussion, see Ref. CITATION).  ATP sulfurylase (ATPS1) catalyzes the formation of adenosine 5-phosphosulfate from inorganic sulfate and ATP. Four paralogues (ATPS1–4) are predicted to localize to non-green and/or green plastids in A. thaliana. Cytosolic and chloroplast isoforms were purified from spinach leaves, and their native mass was about 170 kDa as determined by gel filtration subsequent to other fractionation steps (CITATION). We detected ATPS1 (At3g22890; ∼49 kDa) at low levels (level 5) in the stroma with a native mass between 129 and 147 kDa.  We identified 17 proteins involved in amino acid metabolism, representing about 0.8% of the stromal protein mass. They were typically expressed at levels 3 and 4. Literature searches for their oligomeric state suggest that most of these accumulate as dimers and trimers (between ∼100 and 150 kDa) in different plant species, and indeed these 17 proteins were found in this mass range (supplemental table). As an example, we mention the carbamoylphosphate synthetase large (At1g29900; 130 kDa) and small (At3g27740; 45 kDa) subunits. In Aquifex aeolicus and in Escherichia coli, they were reported to form a heterodimer of 171 kDa (CITATION). In appears that this oligomeric state is conserved in A. thaliana chloroplasts because we found both subunits with a native mass between 162 and 173 kDa, corresponding to a heterodimer.  We identified six proteins involved in lipid/fatty acid biosynthesis, all of them at low levels (mostly level 5), clearly less abundant than proteins involved in e.g. amino acid biosynthesis. These include acetyl-CoA synthetase (acetate-CoA ligase) generating acetyl-CoA from acetate (typically produced from glycolysis in mitochondria), ACCase, and one of the three ketoacyl-ACP synthases, KAS1, as well as two desaturases, stearoyl-ACP desaturases 1 and 2. KAS1 (At5g46290; 50 kDa) is an essential enzyme involved in the construction of unsaturated fatty acid carbon skeletons, and we identified it at 130 kDa. ACCase, catalyzing the first committed reaction of de novo fatty acid biosynthesis, forms a heterotetrameric enzyme with plastid-coded subunit β-carboxyltransferase, biotin carboxy carrier, biotin carboxylase, and α-carboxyltransferase. We did not identify these additional subunits most likely because they are primarily associated with the inner envelope membrane (CITATION).  We identified two proteins in plastid isoprenoid biosynthesis from the non-mevalonic acid or methyl-d-erythritol 4-phosphate pathway. These were 4-diphosphocytidyl-2C-methyl-d-erythritol synthase (ISPD or CMS) and GcpE/IspG/Clb4 immediately downstream in the pathway. Both accumulated at “level 4.” GcpE/IspG was only recently localized to plastids (CITATION). ISPD (At2g02500; ∼30 kDa) was identified at 68 kDa on the CN-PAGE gel, probably forming a dimer.  Plant hormones such as jasmonic acid, gibberellic acid, and abscisic acid and products of the terpenoid pathway are, in part, synthesized in plastids. We identified lipoxygenase LOX2 (At3g45140; 102 kDa) involved in jasmonic acid synthesis with a predominant native mass of 116 kDa, corresponding to a monomer. It is surprisingly abundant, here quantified with a relative concentration of level 3. We also identified it with high Mascot scores in an earlier study as a thylakoid-associated protein (CITATION). It was shown that chloroplast-localized LOX2 is required for the wound-induced synthesis of the plant growth regulator jasmonic acid in leaves (CITATION).  Cofactors and vitamins are synthesized in plastids. We identified two plastid enzymes involved in thiamine/vitamin B1 biosynthesis, Thi1 (level 3) and ThiC (level 4), both accumulating in complexes of 200 and 157 kDa, respectively (supplemental table). To our knowledge, ThiC has not been identified earlier in chloroplasts. Interestingly we found that Thi1 was heavily oxidized as evidenced by high levels of methionine oxidation in the mass spectrometer. This high level of methionine oxidation was clearly specific for Thi1. It should be noted that Thi1 is dually targeted to both plastids and mitochondria, using two different translation initiation sites (CITATION).  We also identified 6,7-dimethyl-8-ribityllumazine (DMRL) synthase (At2g44050) involved in vitamin B2 synthesis (riboflavin). It was shown for the isoforms in E. coli and spinach that DMRL synthase is a 60-mer forming an icosaeder of 12 pentamers. In E. coli, each subunit is about 13–17 kDa, and the complex migrated around 850 kDa (CITATION–CITATION). We found Arabidopsis lumazine synthase at 738 kDa, corresponding quite well with observations for the bacterial orthologue.  We identified nine proteins involved in tetrapyrrole synthesis (at “level 3”) and interestingly also the red chlorophyll catabolite reductase (also named “accelerated cell death 2” or ACD2) involved in chlorophyll degradation (“level 4”). Together they totaled about 0.5% of the stromal protein mass. Porphobilinogen synthase (At1g69740; ∼45 kDa) and coproporphyrinogen III oxidase (At103475; ∼40 kDa) were reported to form a homo-octamer (CITATION) and a homodimer (CITATION). We identified each on the CN-PAGE gel at ∼340 and 82 kDa, which corresponds to these reported oligomeric states. The A and B subunits of glutamyl-tRNA amidotransferase (At3g25660, 52 kDa; and At1g48520, 60 kDa) were identified at 190–199 kDa on the CN-PAGE gel, strongly suggesting heterotetrameric interactions. An α2 homodimer of 120 kDa has been identified in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii (CITATION).  Many enzymes in plastids are activated and deactivated through oxidation/reduction reactions via the thioredoxin system. The thioredoxin family consists of nine proteins grouped in four clusters (m1,2,3,4; x; y1,2; and f1,2) (CITATION–CITATION). We identified five thioredoxins on the CN-PAGE gels; TrXm1 was found at around 90 kDa, TrXm2 and TrXx were found at 154 kDa, and TrXf1 was found at both 154 and 212 kDa. Most likely they associate transiently with one or more different enzymes, but given the proteome complexity and the resolution of the native gels, we could not identify their respective partners. This is not surprising because recent affinity studies using modified thioredoxins as bait have shown that the thioredoxins interact with 50 or more chloroplast stromal proteins covering a wide range of functions (CITATION).  We identified 14 proteins involved in oxidative stress responses. Some of them were quite abundant, such as peroxiredoxins A and B at level 2. Peroxiredoxin IIE (At3g52960) was identified at a native mass of 84 kDa, whereas the abundant peroxiredoxins A/B were found at multiple native masses in agreement with reports from the literature (CITATION–CITATION). We also identified several members of the ascorbate and glutathione defense systems, such as monodehydroascorbate reductase and dehydroascorbate reductase-2, involved in recycling oxidized ascorbate, and glutathione reductase. The native data suggest that they might interact with each other in an 80–100-kDa complex, corresponding to a heterodimer.  Plastids are a major site for pyrimidine and purine nucleotide synthesis, and indeed we identified 12 enzymes in these pathways (all at levels 3 and 4), corresponding to about 0.5% of stromal protein mass. Two of them are shared with amino acid biosynthesis. NDPK2 (At5g63310) is a nucleotide-diphosphate kinase involved in nucleotide metabolism (transfer of phosphate from NTP to NDP). NPDK2 (∼20 kDa) was reported to form a homohexamer (CITATION, CITATION) in agreement with an observed native mass of 133 kDa on the CN-PAGE gels. NDPK2 was predicted by TargetP and Predotar to be plastid-localized and was purified from spinach chloroplasts (CITATION). Curiously NDPK2 is proposed to be a signal transducer in phytochrome-mediated light signaling, co-localizing with phytochrome in the nucleus (CITATION, CITATION). In light of the purification from spinach chloroplasts and its significant accumulation level in A. thaliana chloroplasts in this study, it seems less likely that NDPK2 it is localized in the nucleus.  We were quite surprised to identify so many proteins (CITATION) assigned to Bins 27 and 29, together representing about 7% of the stromal mass. The relative concentration among these proteins spanned 3–4 orders of magnitude with ROC4 (At3g62030; 20 kDa) as the most abundant protein. ROC4 is an abundant stromal peptidylprolyl isomerase with demonstrated in vitro rotamase activity, but its role is unclear (CITATION). ROC4 was found predominantly around 110 kDa and may form a hexamer.  Spinach plastid 70 S ribosomes are composed of more than 60 proteins and have a native mass of around 2 MDa (CITATION, CITATION). The stromal 70 S ribosomes migrated just into the CN-PAGE gel with low amounts of other large complexes (Fig. 1, A and B). We analyzed 21 protein spots in this gel area, but the analysis was not exhaustive. Nevertheless we identified some 11 30 S subunits, 10 50 S subunits, and a plastid-specific ribosome-associated protein (PSRP2). Ribosome-associated proteins RAP41 (At3g63140) and RAP38 (At1g09340), originally identified in C. reinhardtii ribosomes (84), were each found at three different locations of the stromal CN-PAGE native gels: (i) in a complex larger than 950 kDa most likely associated with 70 S ribosomes, (ii) at 224 kDa, and (iii) at 106–126 kDa. At 224 kDa, the only obvious potential partners are ribosomal protein L5 (At4g01310) and ribosomal protein L31 (At1g75350) (Fig. 2A). At 106–126 kDa, no obvious partners were found, suggesting the possibility that RAP38 and RAP41 form a heterotrimer.  [[FIGURE]] We identified elongation factors, EF-Tu-1 (At4g20360; 45 kDa), ET-G (At1g62750; 78 kDa), and EF-P (At3g08740; 21 kDa) as well a new elongation factor typA/bipA like protein (At5g13650; 69 kDa). The BipA-like protein was found in a complex over 950 kDa likely interacting with ribosomes. In E. coli, BipA is required specifically for the expression of the transcriptional modulator Fis and binds to ribosomes at a site that coincides with that of elongation factor G (85). Elongation factor EF-Tu-1 found at multiple native masses ranging from 110 to over 950 kDa was identified several times with high Mascot scores (up to 732) and was abundant (level 2), suggesting that it has additional functions. Indeed an orthologue in maize plastids was suggested to also serve as a chaperone in particular during heat stress (CITATION, CITATION).  We identified several proteins involved in mRNA binding and processing/degradation. Polyribonucleotide nucleotidyltransferase (At3g03710; ∼95 kDa) acts as a 3′–5′ exoribonuclease. We identified it in a stromal complex of 410 kDa. This protein shows sequence homology to the polynucleotide phosphorylase (PNPase) of the E. coli degradosome. It possibly acts as a homotetramer (CITATION–CITATION) and not as a hetero-oligomer as shown in other non-plant eukaryotes. We also identified At5g48960 (∼65 kDa) encoding for a putative 5′-nucleotidase with unknown function; it was detected at 166 kDa in the stroma. At5g26742 encodes a putative DEAD box RNA helicase (RH3) and was identified on the CN-PAGE stromal gel in a molecular mass complex of >950 kDa. A plastid-localized RH3 was identified in tobacco, and a loss of function mutant resulted in variegated leaves and abnormal roots and flowers (CITATION). In E. coli, a DEAD-RNA helicase is part of the “degradosome” along with the PNPase, the endoribonuclease RNase E, and the glycolytic enzyme enolase (CITATION). RH3 in chloroplasts does not seem to be associated with the PNPase or At5g48960 mentioned above.  Chaperones cpHSP70-1 (At4g24280) and cpHSP70-2 (At5g49910) are most likely in a complex of ∼200 kDa with GrpE1 (At5g17710) and GrpE2 (At1g36390) (Fig. 2B). In addition, GrpE1 and GrpE2 seem to form a complex at 150 kDa without cpHSP70, but a potential pitfall is that transketolase is a major spot possibly masking cpHSP70. Indeed when analyzing the CN-PAGE gel of the peripheral thylakoid proteins, where transketolase is less abundant, cpHSP70 was detected close to transketolase at ∼150 kDa and most likely forms a second type of complex with GrpE1–2 (not shown). cpHSP70-1 and cpHSP70-2 (mostly the -1 isoform) also form complex at 123 kDa, but we did not detect any GrpE in this native mass range. GrpE and cpHSP70 have been shown to form complexes of ∼120 and 230 kDa in chloroplasts of C. reinhardtii, and GrpE also forms homo-oligomers (CITATION).  We identified a well resolved CPN60 complex at 806 kDa with α (At2g28000) and β subunits (At5g56500, At3g13470, and At1g55490) in an approximate 1:1 ratio. CPN10 (At2g44650) or CPN20 (At5g20720) were not part of this 800-kDa complex but were found in complexes of 150–170 kDa. A trigger factor-like protein (At5g55220; ∼60 kDa) was identified most likely as a dimer. Trigger factor in the cytosol of E. coli prevents misfolding and aggregation of nascent proteins emerging from the 70 S ribosome (CITATION). The structure of “free” trigger factor (without ribosomes) of Vibrio cholerae was determined at 2.5-Å resolution as a dimer (CITATION).  The ClpP/R core protease complex was detected at 325–350 kDa. It is a hexadecamer composed of two rings of seven subunits with ClpP1,3,4,5,6 and ClpR1,2,3,4 in one or more copies associated with two chaperone-like proteins named ClpS1 and -S2 (CITATION). Oligopeptidase A in the M3 peptidase family (At5g65620; 88 kDa) and a zinc-metalloprotease of the M16 family (At3g19170; 120 kDa) both have unknown function and accumulated as monomers.  A significant number of the identified A. thaliana proteins currently have no obvious function (supplemental table). Here we highlight just a few and comment on their native mass, abundance, and functions in non-plant species.  Denelactone hydrolase is a monomeric enzyme in bacteria involved in the degradation of aromatic compounds such as chlorocatechol and has been crystallized from Pseudomonas (CITATION). Nothing is known about its substrate in plants. We found a dienelactone hydrolase at 27.5 kDa (At1g35420; ∼30 kDa) as monomer. At1g21440 and At1g77060 are ∼33-kDa paralogues and encode for a putative plastid-localized mutase likely involved in the formation of C–P bonds. In Streptomyces hygroscopicus it is involved in the biosynthesis of phosphonates (CITATION, CITATION). We identified both proteins in the same spot at a native mass of 119 kDa; it is quite possible that they form trimers. At1g77060 was also identified at 147 kDa. The biosynthesis of phosphonate has not been investigated in plants, and the only report found in the literature concerns the accumulation of synthase mRNA in senescing carnation (Dianthus caryophyllus) flower petals in response to ethylene (CITATION).  The DAG gene (At1g11430) encodes a 20-kDa protein with no obvious functional domains involved in the development of chloroplasts (CITATION). We identified the DAG protein in a high molecular mass complex of >950 kDa. The protein THF1 (At2g20890) involved in thylakoid biogenesis was shown to be present in chloroplasts as well as in plastid-associated stromules (CITATION). We originally identified the 25-kDa THF1 protein under denaturing conditions in the stripped thylakoid proteome (CITATION) and in this study as a 270-kDa complex in the stroma. Interacting protein partners are unknown. 
!~MM~! A. thaliana (Col 0) was grown under 10-h light/14-h dark cycles at 25/17 °C. Rosette leaves were collected about 55 days after sowing. These plants were still in their vegetative stage, about 1 week prior to bolting. Intact chloroplasts were isolated, and the native stromal proteome was collected, concentrated, and directly loaded on colorless native gels (CN-PAGE) as described in Ref. CITATION. The gels were then loaded on Tricine-SDS-PAGE gels (linear gradients with 8–15% acrylamide), focused, and stained with Coomassie Brilliant Blue, silver nitrate, or the fluorescent dye SYPRO Ruby (CITATION).  Coomassie-stained gels were scanned with a desktop scanner or high resolution scanner (Amersham Biosciences), and SYPRO Ruby-stained gels were scanned using a charge-coupled device camera (FluorS, Bio-Rad). Spot volumes were determined, corrected for background, and normalized to total spot volume using Phoretix software version 2004 (Non-linear, Newcastle, UK). We always verified the correlation between predicted processed molecular mass and experimentally observed mass. In a limited number of cases, more than one protein was identified per gel spot. We first verified whether the identities in a spot could be explained by any background signals (from streaking) from abundant proteins in this gel area. Such identities from background were not quantified. If it appeared that the identities of the proteins in a spot were truly the results of two co-migrating proteins and if the MOWSE scores were in a similar range (within 3-fold difference), then each protein was assigned half the spot volume. If spots contained more than one protein with very different MOWSE scores (at least a factor of 3), we removed the protein identification based on the lowest MOWSE score. This was a reasonable strategy because co-migrating proteins were typically of similar molecular mass. In case a protein was identified more than once, we summed all corrected spot volumes for that accession. To facilitate comparison of abundance of different proteins, the spot volume(s) for each accession was divided by the denatured molecular mass for each accession. This resulted in a rough approximation of relative concentration. We do point out that protein abundance was calculated from SYPRO Ruby-stained spot intensity. Because SYPRO Ruby binds preferentially to charged residues (lysine, arginine, and histidine) protein abundance is underestimated or overestimated if the proteins contain few or many charged residues, respectively.  Stained protein spots were excised, washed, and digested with modified trypsin, and peptides were extracted automatically (Progest, Genomic Solutions, Ann Arbor, MI). Proteins were identified by peptide mass fingerprinting using a MALDI-TOF mass spectrometer (Voyager DE-STR, Applied Biosystems) and/or by tandem mass spectrometry using a capillary LC-ESI-MS/MS (Q-TOF, Waters) as described in Ref. CITATION. MS or MS/MS spectra were used to search the predicted A. thaliana proteome downloaded from the TAIR database using an in-house installation of Mascot (www.matrixscience.com). Criteria for positive identification from peptide mass fingerprinting and from MS/MS data are described in Ref. CITATION. In the analysis of the MS data, an effort was made to distinguish between members of the same gene family or otherwise related gene products. In some cases, peptides were identified that match to more than one protein. Uniquely matching peptides (diagnostic peptides) are then needed to determine which protein is expressed. In case the mass spectrometry data did match ambiguously to more than one protein, these protein identifications are automatically linked within the PPDB database and reported in the tables.  The construction of the PPDB (ppdb.tc.cornell.edu/) was originally described in Ref. CITATION. The PPDB interface was improved, and search functions were expanded since its inception in 2004. Also more detailed curated information can now be accessed. The annotated CN-PAGE gel image and associated experimental, predicted, and other data presented in this study can be accessed via PPDB. PPDB also contains the theoretical analysis of all Arabidopsis entries (currently release 5.0 of ATH1.pep with 29,161 nuclear encoded Arabidopsis proteins as well as the mitochondrial and plastid genomes). Mascot scores, number of matching peptides, and highest peptide score for each identification as well as functional classification are listed.  Chlorophyll concentrations were determined spectrometrically in 80% acetone (CITATION), and protein determinations were done with the bicinchoninic acid assay (CITATION). 
