!~ABS~! Programmed cell death, developmental senescence, and responses to pathogens are linked through complex genetic controls that are influenced by redox regulation. Here we show that the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) low vitamin C mutants, vtc1 and vtc2, which have between 10% and 25% of wild-type ascorbic acid, exhibit microlesions, express pathogenesis-related (PR) proteins, and have enhanced basal resistance against infections caused by Pseudomonas syringae. The mutants have a delayed senescence phenotype with smaller leaf cells than the wild type at maturity. The vtc leaves have more glutathione than the wild type, with higher ratios of reduced glutathione to glutathione disulfide. Expression of green fluorescence protein (GFP) fused to the nonexpressor of PR protein 1 (GFP-NPR1) was used to detect the presence of NPR1 in the nuclei of transformed plants. Fluorescence was observed in the nuclei of 6- to 8-week-old GFP-NPR1 vtc1 plants, but not in the nuclei of transformed GFP-NPR1 wild-type plants at any developmental stage. The absence of senescence-associated gene 12 (SAG12) mRNA at the time when constitutive cell death and basal resistance were detected confirms that elaboration of innate immune responses in vtc plants does not result from activation of early senescence. Moreover, H2O2-sensitive genes are not induced at the time of systemic acquired resistance execution. These results demonstrate that ascorbic acid abundance modifies the threshold for activation of plant innate defense responses via redox mechanisms that are independent of the natural senescence program.
!~RES~! In this study, the Columbia (Col-0) wild type and the vtc1 and vtc2 mutants were grown in a 10-h photoperiod in controlled environment chambers with filtered air to remove atmospheric ozone. In these conditions, the vtc1 (Fig. 2) and vtc2 (data not shown; see CITATION) mutants were smaller at equivalent stages in development than wild-type plants. This phenotype was clearly evidenced at 2 weeks and was maintained throughout the plant growth cycle (Fig. 2). As shown in Table I, the vtc1 and vtc2 rosettes accumulate biomass at a much slower rate than the wild type. The vtc1 leaves had about 70% less AA than the wild type throughout development. The vtc2 mutants studied here had even lower leaf AA content for most of the growing period, with leaf AA reaching maximum values of about 25% of those of the wild type at 4 weeks (Table I). In addition, the vtc1 leaves had 1.3 to 1.6 times more glutathione than the wild type. Moreover, the GSH-to-GSSG ratios of vtc1 rosette leaves were almost double those measured in the wild type at all stages of development. The vtc2 rosette leaves also tended to have more leaf glutathione than the wild type, with much higher GSH-to-GSSG ratios later in rosette development (Table I). Wild-type, vtc1, and vtc2 leaves had similar amounts of chlorophyll and leaf protein at equivalent time points in the growth phase up to 10 weeks of growth. Thereafter, leaf chlorophyll and soluble protein declined in wild-type plants, but in vtc1 and vtc2 they remained at similar values to those observed at 8 weeks (Table I). On the other hand, the vtc1 plants were delayed in flowering compared to the wild type (Fig. 3), as did vtc2 (see Fig. 2). Together, these features show that vtc1 and vtc2 rosettes senesce later than the wild-type leaves. [[FIGURE]] Comparative developmental changes in vtc1-1, vtc2-1, and wild-type shoot biomass, leaf antioxidants, chlorophyll, and soluble protein FW, Fresh weight. [[FIGURE]] Macroscopic spontaneous lesions were not observed in naive vtc1 leaves from plants grown on either short or long days (Fig. 2), but a few whole chlorotic leaves per plant appeared after 10 weeks, and these, by eye, might easily be mistaken for a symptom of senescence. However, in contrast to Col-0 rosette leaves (Fig. 4A), we consistently detected the presence of individual dead cells early in the development of vtc1 (Fig. 4B) and vtc2 (Fig. 4C) rosette leaves at the microscopic level. Small foci of collapsed cells were found all over the leaf surface and preferentially in the mesophyll layer of vtc1 and vtc2 leaves (Fig. 4, B and C). By 8 weeks, the areas of dead cells had expanded in vtc2 leaves to form larger foci with clear patches of dead cells detectable by autofluorescence or lactophenol blue staining (Fig. 4C). Even the young (4–6 weeks) vtc1 and vtc2 rosettes had a small number of dead cells as detected by autofluorescence (Fig. 4, B and C) or lactophenol blue staining (Figs. 4 and 5). Individual dead cells were also detected in wild-type leaves, but their appearance was delayed compared to vtc1 and vtc2 (Figs. 4 and 5). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To evaluate how vtc1 controls cell death expansion once it is initiated by an exogenous stimulus, we challenged leaf tissues with high doses of the biotrophic bacterium P. syringae pv tomato DC3000 (Pst). This virulent pathogen proliferates in the intercellular spaces of leaf tissues of naive wild-type plants causing disease with spreading, chlorotic lesions (CITATION). However, proliferation is restricted when plants orchestrate SAR (CITATION; CITATION). We monitored the development of pathogen-induced lesions in 8-week-old wild-type and vtc1 and vtc2 plants infiltrated with a high titer of bacteria (5×106 cfu/mL). Large patches of necrotic tissue were evident 5 d postinfection in inoculated wild-type leaves, while only a few small groups of dead cells (without spreading necrosis) were found in inoculated vtc1 tissues (Fig. 6). Thus, vtc1 mutation does not lead to cell death propagation once it is initiated by Pst inoculation. Like vtc1, vtc2 leaves exhibited individual collapsed cells in the young (4–6 weeks) rosettes. Spontaneous cell death is therefore more prolific in vtc1 than vtc2 leaves, whereas cell death patches were more abundant in vtc2 leaves in which AA content is much lower than vtc1 at the 6- and 8-week stages (Table I). Individual dead cells were also detected in wild-type leaves, but their appearance was delayed compared to vtc1 (Figs. 4 and 5). [[FIGURE]] Four days after Pst inoculation, typical disease symptoms were observed in wild-type leaves, while little chlorosis was detected in vtc1 and vtc2 leaves (Fig. 7A). We quantified bacterial growth in planta in wild type, vtc1, and vtc2 infected tissues and observed that both mutations conferred the ability to restrict Pst proliferation by 15-fold and 13-fold, respectively, over wild-type levels (Fig. 7B). Similar protection is conferred by biological (CITATION) or chemical (CITATION; CITATION) treatments activating SAR in wild-type plants. The level of basal resistance was measured every 2 to 3 weeks during the development of naive wild-type and vtc1 plants. Enhanced levels of basal resistance were clearly detectable in vtc1 plants at 6 to 8 weeks (Fig. 8). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] By week 6, both mutants displayed constitutive expression of PR genes (Fig. 9). However, neither vtc mutants nor wild-type plants displayed substantial constitutive expression of the antioxidant glutathione S-transferase (GST) gene at this time (Fig. 9). PR gene expression was first detected in naive vtc1 plants after 6 weeks of growth and was clearly evident by week 8 (Fig. 10). In contrast, PR expression was active only at the time of senescence in wild-type plants (about 16 weeks; Fig. 10). Neither Col-0 nor vtc1 plants showed expression of the senescence marker gene senescence-associated gene 12 (SAG12) during the developmental period in which leaves were analyzed (2–11 weeks) in these experiments (Fig. 10). The absence of SAG12 expression in vtc1 confirms the conclusion drawn from the enhanced duration of levels of high protein and chlorophyll that vtc1 rosettes do not develop faster or senesce earlier than the wild-type plants. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The mature vtc1 and vtc2 leaves had the same numbers of cells as the wild type, but they were smaller (Fig. 11). The vtc1 leaf cells stopped growing early in development at about week 6 (Fig. 12). Transgenic wild-type and vtc1 plants expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP) fused to NPR1 (Col-0 GFP-NPR1 and vtc1 GFP-NPR1, respectively) were constructed and the fluorescence profile was assessed throughout the development of homozygous transformed plants. The amount of GFP fluorescence observed in the cytosol of mesophyll or epidermal cells was very low in all conditions. However, the stomatal guard cells of all genotypes always showed nuclear localization of NPR1 as observed by high fluorescence (Fig. 13), as reported previously (CITATION). When the fluorescence images are overlaid bright-field images of the cells (Fig. 14, bottom), then nuclear localization of the fluorescent spots within the guard cell pairs is evident. A higher resolution image of an individual stomatal guard cell pair is shown in the inset to Figure 14 (bottom right) to clearly illustrate this point. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] GFP fluorescence was not detected in the nuclei of unchallenged mesophyll or epidermal cells of transgenic Col-0 plants at any stage of development (Figs. 13 and 14). However, GFP fluorescence accumulated in the nuclei of transgenic Col-0 plants following the application of SA (Fig. 13, bottom). Similarly, GFP fluorescence was not accumulated in the nuclei of unchallenged mesophyll or epidermal cells of transgenic vtc1 rosettes prior to the 6-week stage. Thereafter, however, fluorescence increased in the nuclei of transgenic vtc1 rosettes, becoming increasingly intense at 8 weeks and beyond (Fig. 14).
!~MM~! Seeds of the wild-type Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana L. Heynh. accession Col-0) and the vtc1-1 and vtc2-2 mutants were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (NASC) and from Nick Smirnoff (University of Exeter). These plants were grown in a controlled environment chamber essentially as described previously (CITATION). Plants were grown for 12 weeks at 22°C under low (250 μmol m−2 s−1) light with a 10-h photoperiod and 70% humidity. The air in the chamber was filtered to remove atmospheric ozone and with strict hygiene. Whole rosettes were harvested in the growth chamber and biomass recorded (fresh weight). Extraction and assay of AA, glutathione, protein, and chlorophyll were performed as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). The virulent Pseudomonas syringae pv tomato strain DC3000 (Pst) was grown overnight in King's B medium with 10 μg/mL tetracycline and 100 μg/mL rifampicine, and bacterial suspensions were washed twice in 10 mm MgCl2, diluted to appropriate concentrations and used for infiltration into fully expanded leaves at two sites on the abaxial surface, as previously described (CITATION). For bacterial growth curves, two leaf discs (6-mm diameter) were cut around the Pst-inoculation sites from each leaf. Discs from different inoculated leaves were pooled at each time point and homogenized in 10 mm MgCl2 to liberate the bacteria. Serial dilutions of the homogenates were plated (in duplicate) on King's B medium supplemented with 10 μg/mL tetracycline and 100 μg/mL rifampicine. Colonies on the plates were counted after incubation at 28°C for 24 h. Total RNA was prepared for RNA gel-blot hybridization analysis by use of standard protocols as described previously (CITATION). Arabidopsis probe templates were used for detection of GST-1 (At1g02930), SAG12 (At5g45890), PR-1 (At2g14610), PR-2 (At3g57260), and PR-5 (At1g75040) transcripts (CITATION). Competent Agrobacterium tumefaciens (strain GV3101; pMP90) were prepared using the protocol of CITATION. Arabidopsis (Col-0/vtc1) plants were transformed with Agrobacterium containing the NPR1-GFP construct (pBI 1.4t backbone; CITATION) using a simple dip transformation technique (CITATION). Primary transformed seedlings were selected on Murashige and Skoog agar plates containing kanamycin (2.1 g/L Murashige and Skoog salts, 0.7% bacto-agar, and 50 μg/mL kanamycin, pH 5.7). GFP fluorescence in leaves expressing the NPR1 reporter constructs was determined using a Zeiss Axiophot microscope. Leaf samples were mounted in water and illuminated using an excitation and emission wavelength of 490 and 510 nm, respectively, and viewed using the appropriate filters (BP 470/20, FT 493, BP 505–530; Zeiss). Leaf sections were fixed and embedded in Spurr's medium as described by CITATION. Semithin sections (0.5 μm) were stained with toluidine blue and examined with a Leica DMR light microscope. Quantitative determinations were developed using an imaging analysis Leica QM500 as described previously by CITATION. Dead cells were identified using lactophenol blue (Fluka) staining followed by destaining in saturated chloral hydrate as previously described (CITATION). Leaves were then mounted on microscopic slides in 40% glycerol and analyzed by bright-field or blue-light incident fluorescence microscopy. Numbers of dead cells per leaf were counted and 40 independent measurements were made per time point. Autofluorescence detection was performed as described previously (CITATION).
