!~ABS~! In plants, protein synthesis occurs in the cytosol, mitochondria, and plastids. Each compartment requires a full set of tRNAs and aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases. We have undertaken a systematic analysis of the targeting of organellar aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases in the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana. Dual targeting appeared to be a general rule. Among the 24 identified organellar aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases (aaRSs), 15 (and probably 17) are shared between mitochondria and plastids, and 5 are shared between cytosol and mitochondria (one of these aaRSs being present also in chloroplasts). Only two were shown to be uniquely chloroplastic and none to be uniquely mitochondrial. Moreover, there are no examples where the three aaRS genes originating from the three ancestral genomes still coexist. These results indicate that extensive exchange of aaRSs has occurred during evolution and that many are now shared between two or even three compartments. The findings have important implications for studies of the translation machinery in plants and on protein targeting and gene transfer in general.
!~RES~!  Forty-Five Expressed aaRS Genes Were Found in the A. thaliana Nuclear Genome. The analysis of the A. thaliana genome revealed 53 genes presenting similarities with aaRSs (Table 1). The expression of 51 of 53 could be proven by expressed sequence tags (ESTs) or by whole-genome array (CITATION), and 6 sequences of the 51 probably have no aaRS function (Table 1). The remaining 45 aaRS genes must provide 19 or 20 aaRS activities to the cytosol, mitochondria, and plastids, which suggests that many of these enzymes have to be targeted to at least two of these three cellular compartments. Sequence homology with well characterized aaRSs from other eukaryotes and bacteria enabled unambiguous attribution of the probable amino acid specificity of each of these enzymes. For 13 amino acids of the 20, only two aaRS genes have been found in A. thaliana (Table 1). For glutamine (Gln), only one expressed cytosolic GlnRS was found. This observation is in accordance with the fact that Gln-tRNAGln formation was shown to occur by transamidation in chloroplasts, and led to the suggestion that the same route of Gln-tRNA synthesis is also prevalent in mitochondria, although it has been shown in yeast that the cytosolic GlnRS is imported into mitochondria and is involved in mitochondrial Gln-tRNAGln formation (CITATION). Using different computer prediction programs [predotar (CITATION), mitoprot (CITATION), and targetp (CITATION)] and alignment of protein sequences to homologues, a potential organelle targeting sequence was identified for half of the sequences (23 of 45) (Tables 1 and 2). It should be stressed that the extremely high sequence conservation of these essential enzymes makes the identification of N-terminal targeting information relatively straightforward. For only four amino acids were two aaRs with targeting sequences identified (Table 2). For 16 of these 23 sequences, putative full-length mRNAs were found. For the other genes, 5′ RACE or RT-PCR on their transcripts were performed to confirm the likely N-terminal sequence of the protein.  Targeting of aaRSs to Mitochondria and Chloroplasts. To analyze the intracellular localization of the putative organellar aaRSs, their N-terminal sequences were fused to GFP and RFP reporter genes. The localization of the fusion proteins was determined by transient expression in tobacco protoplasts for all constructs (FIG-REF; see also Fig. 5, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site) and by in vitro import into isolated organelles for one of each pair of constructs (FIG-REF; see also Fig. 6, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). GFP and RFP fusions always gave the same localization in vivo. In vitro import was almost always in agreement with the localization by fluorescence, with a few exceptions discussed below. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We have already shown that the targeting sequences from AsnRS (At4g17300), CysRS (At2g31170) (CITATION), GlyRS-2 (At3g48110) (CITATION), HisRS (At3g46100) (CITATION), and MetRS (At3g55400) (CITATION) allow targeting to both mitochondria and chloroplasts. Our systematic study demonstrates that such dual targeting is the general rule for plant organellar aaRSs, and we have identified at least 11 previously uncharacterized dual-targeted aaRSs: two AlaRSs (At1g50200 and At5g22800), AspRS (At4g33760), PheRS (At3g58140), GluRS (At5g64050), LysRS (At3g13490), ProRS (At5g52520), SerRS (At1g11870), ThrRS (At2g04842), TrpRS (At2g25840), and TyrRS (At3g02660). The AlaRS gene At1g50200 had already been shown to encode both cytosolic and mitochondrial forms of the enzyme, but the fluorescence data (FIG-REF), the in vitro import (FIG-REF), and Western blots (FIG-REF) all indicate that some of the “mitochondrial” form is also in plastids. For all of the dual-targeted proteins listed above, the in vitro import gave clear unequivocal results, whereas the fluorescence localization was often less easy to interpret. All of these GFP and RFP constructs gave strong mitochondrial signals (verified by colocalization with formate dehydrogenase-GFP or CoxIV-RFP fusions (CITATION, CITATION) (data not shown), but many of them (AspRS, PheRS, ProRS, SerRS, and TyrRS) gave plastid fluorescence signals that were weak (see SerRS result in FIG-REF) and that varied between experiments and between cells within the same experiment. This weak fluorescence was not due to passenger protein effects as results with GFP and RFP fusions were identical. Equally, transient expression by Agrobacterium infiltration of leaves in situ gave the same variable, weak plastid fluorescence (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Two other aaRSs are presumably dual targeted, but our results are not fully conclusive. Targeting of the IleRS (At5g49030) construct to chloroplasts was observed both in vivo and in vitro (Figs. FIG-REF and FIG-REF). In contrast, targeting to mitochondria was observed only in vitro. The ValRS-2 (At5g16715) targeting sequence localized GFP and RFP to mitochondria, with weak fluorescence sometimes observed in chloroplasts. In vitro, the same GFP fusion was clearly imported into chloroplasts but not into mitochondria. These two cases are the only ones where we observed conflicting results in vivo and in vitro. Contrary to all other N-terminal sequences tested here, in vivo and in vitro experiments showed only plastid targeting for LeuRS-2 (At4g04350) and ArgRS (At4g26300) N-terminal sequences (Figs. FIG-REF and FIG-REF). No targeting sequence could be detected for the other LeuRS gene, At1g09620, and its full-length mRNA (AY056261) corresponds to a protein without a targeting sequence. Antibodies were available for this enzyme (CITATION) and tested with A. thaliana protein extracts. Western blots showed that the corresponding enzyme is localized both in the cytosol and the mitochondria, even if no targeting sequence could be identified (FIG-REF).  Phylogenetic Analysis and Evolutionary Origins. Multiple alignments and distance trees were performed to see relationships between each A. thaliana aaRS and aaRSs from other organisms (Table 1; see also Fig. 7, which is published as supporting information on the PNAS web site). Cytosolic enzymes are usually most similar to other cytosolic enzymes and very different from their organellar counterparts. Two exceptions are the CysRS and AsnRS enzymes, likely to be derived from organellar origins (CITATION). The organellar enzymes are generally closest to eubacterial enzymes. Nine of them show clear, specific affinities with cyanobacterial sequences and are therefore strongly predicted to originate from the plastid ancestor. Five others also appear to be most related to eubacterial sequences and are therefore likely to originate from organelle ancestors. Surprisingly, only two enzymes (PheRS and SerRS) show specific similarities to mitochondrial enzymes from yeast or animals. Finally, the organellar ProRS and ArgRS enzymes are most similar to their homologues from the eukaryotic cytosol and presumably arose by duplication of the gene for the cytosolic enzyme and subsequent acquisition of an organelle targeting sequence.
!~MM~!  Bioinformatics. The Arabidopsis aaRS sequences were downloaded through The Arabidopsis Information Resource database (www.arabidopsis.org). For the other species, the aaRS sequences were downloaded through ENZYME (www.expasy.org/enzyme) and SwissProt databases (www.expasy.org/sprot). The list of species and sequences used is shown in Tables 3 and 4, which are published as supporting information on the PNAS web site. The entire proteins sequences were aligned by using clustalw at the European Bioinformatics Institute server (www.ebi.ac.uk/clustalw). The phylogeny was performed by using the phylip programs (http://evolution.genetics.washington.edu/phylip.html) The trees were built by using the neighbor joining method. The number of boot-strap replicates used was 100. Trees were drawn with treedyn (www.treedyn.org). Prediction of targeting sequences was carried out with predotar (CITATION), targetp (CITATION), and mitoprot (CITATION).  PCR Amplification and Cloning. Sequences encoding putative aaRS targeting sequences were amplified from genomic DNA of Arabidopsis thaliana Col-0 if existing cDNA sequences showed there were no introns in the relevant region of the gene. If cDNA sequences did reveal the presence of introns, or if no cDNA sequences were available, RT-PCR was carried out on Col-0 leaf or suspension cell RNA as described in ref. CITATION. The amplified sequences were cloned in-frame with GFP or RFP reading frames in pOL vectors as described for previous fusions in refs. CITATION and CITATION. For in vitro import experiments, the targeting sequence-GFP reading frame was subcloned into a pBS or pCRII vector in such a direction that it could be transcribed from T7 promoter.  In Vivo GFP or RFP Targeting Analyses. Transient expression in tobacco protoplasts and visualization of GFP and RFP fluorescence by confocal microscopy was performed as described in refs. CITATION and CITATION.  Isolation of Mitochondria and Chloroplasts. Mitochondria were extracted from potato tubers (CITATION) or 5-day-old Arabidopsis cell cultures (CITATION). Chloroplasts were extracted from leaves of 10-day-old pea plants (CITATION) or from 5-day-old Arabidopsis cell cultures (CITATION).  In Vitro Import into Isolated Mitochondria and Chloroplasts. The constructs were used as templates for in vitro transcription/translation carried out with a TNT Coupled Reticulocyte Lysate System (Promega) in the presence of [35S]methionine. Import of [35S]labeled fusion proteins into purified potato mitochondria was performed according to Duchene et al. (CITATION). Import into purified pea chloroplasts was performed according to Bruce et al. (CITATION). All experiments were analyzed by SDS/PAGE.  Western Blot Analysis. Protein extracts were prepared in 10 mM Tris·HCl, pH 7.5/5 mM EDTA/0.3% (wt/vol) SDS/5% (vol/vol) 2-mercaptoethanol, then separated by SDS/PAGE, electrotransferred onto Immobilon-P membranes (Millipore, Bedford, MA), and submitted to immunological detection. Antisera were used at a1/10,000 dilution. Binding of the primary antibodies was revealed by chemoluminescence by using peroxidase-conjugated secondary antibodies and ECL reagents (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech).
