!~ABS~! The actin cytoskeleton of higher plants plays an essential role in plant morphogenesis and in maintaining various cellular activities. In this study we established a tobacco BY-2 cell line, stably transformed with a GFP–fimbrin actin-binding domain (ABD) 2 construct, that allows visualization of actin microfilaments (MFs) in living cells. Using this cell line, designated BY-GF11, we performed time-sequential observations of MF dynamics during cell-cycle progression. Detailed analyses revealed the appearance of a broad MF band in the late G2 phase that separated to form a structure corresponding to the so-called actin-depleted zone (ADZ) in mitosis. In BY-GF11, the MF structure at the cell cortex in mitosis appeared to form two bands rather than the ADZ. Measurements of fluorescent intensities of the cell cortex indicated an MF distribution that resembled two peaks, and we therefore named the structure MF ‘twin peaks’ (MFTP). The cell plate formed exactly within the valley between the MFTP at cytokinesis, and this cell-plate guidance was distorted by disruption of the MFTP by an inhibitor of actin polymerization. These results suggest that the MFTP originates from the broad MF band in the G2 phase and functions as a marker of cytokinesis.
!~RES~! The second actin-binding domain (ABD2) of the Arabidopsis AtFim1 protein was fused to the C-terminus of GFP and stably expressed in tobacco BY-2 cells to generate the BY-GF11 (BY-2 cells stably expressing GFP–fimbrin line 11) cell line. Confocal observations revealed GFP fluorescence of filamentous structures near the cell cortex and along the cytoplasmic strands at the mid-plane (Figure 1a,b). Such filamentous structures were also observed in another cell line of BY-GF8 transformed with the same construct (see Figure 4). These cortical filamentous structures closely resembled those observed in cells following particle bombardment with the mouse talin F-actin-binding domain (GFP-mTn) (Figure 1c; CITATION), although the MF structures in the cytoplasmic strands could not be clearly observed in the GFP-mTn-bombarded cells (Figure 1d). Arabidopsis cell cultures stably expressing GFP–fimbrin ABD2 also revealed similar filamentous structures near the cell cortex and in the cytoplasm (Figure 1e,f). To ensure the GFP-labelled fluorescent structures of the BY-GF11 cells did represent MFs, rhodamine-phalloidin staining was performed after gentle permeabilization of the cells with glycerol. The structures labelled by GFP and rhodamine fluorescence almost overlapped at both the cell cortex and the cell mid-plane (Figure 1g–l). In addition, the GFP fluorescence disappeared following treatment with 100 μm cytochalasin D (CD), an inhibitor of actin polymerization (see Figure 7). These observations clearly indicate that the GFP–fimbrin ABD2 fusion protein labelled MFs in the tobacco BY-GF11 cells. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] As the MF structures were shown to be dynamically changing during cell-cycle progression in fixed cells, we first monitored the changes in MF structures in living BY-GF11 cells. At the G1 phase, transverse and meshwork-like MFs were observed at the cell cortex (Figure 2a), as also found in rhodamin-phalloidin-stained BY-2 cells after fixation (CITATION). At the mid-plane, the MFs extended through the cytoplasm from the cell nucleus to the cell periphery (Figure 2b). Notably, MFs were localized at the periphery of the cytoplasmic strands rather than in their middle. A 3-D image constructed by volume rendering showed a basket-like MF structure within a whole cell (Figure 2c). At S phase, when the cell nucleus moved from the cell periphery to the centre, the MFs extended radially from the nuclear surface to the cell periphery (Figure 2e,f). In the G2 phase, the cortical MFs became predominantly transverse-oriented and concentrated at the cell centre so as to form a band-like structure (Figure 2g,i). At the mid-plane, there was an increase in the amount of GFP fluorescence surrounding the cell nucleus and at the mid-region of the cell cortex (Figure 2h). In contrast, the fluorescence along the cytoplasmic strands and at the cortex of both cell ends was weak, and the filaments appeared to be finer than those in the G1 and S phases. [[FIGURE]] Subsequent observation of MF structures during mitosis revealed that the cortical MFs that were transversely oriented at the G2 phase formed meshwork structures at metaphase (Figure 2j). These meshwork structures were probably localized on both the plasma and vacuolar membranes (Figure 2k, arrow and arrowhead, respectively). At the centre of the cell, a zone with a weak MF network but still with some MFs localized could be distinguished (Figure 2l, arrowhead). This structure closely resembled the ADZ, although in the BY-GF11 cells there appeared to be two MF bands (Figure 2l, asterisks) rather than the ADZ. At the mid-plane, the MFs stretched throughout the cytoplasm as in the G1 through G2 phases, but the filaments were now very fine (Figure 2k). Only a dim fluorescence was observed in the mitotic apparatus. In late anaphase, two populations of longitudinal MFs appeared temporally between the two sets of chromosomes (Figure 2n), as reported in rhodamine-phalloidin injected Tradescantia cells (CITATION). In telophase, the MFs co-localized with the MT phragmoplast and, according to phragmoplast development, moved to the cell periphery (Figure 2q,r). The above-mentioned MF dynamics could be observed in a single living cell by time-sequential observations from late G2 through mitosis to cytokinesis. In the late G2 phase, the cortical MF band could be recognized at the centre of the cell (Figure 3a). As the cell cycle progressed, a zone with weak MFs appeared at the centre of the cortical MF band (Figure 3c), then two MF bands became evident at mitosis (Figure 3d–f). After cytokinesis, the cell plate seemed to form at the site of the weak MFs in mitosis (Figure 3i). [[FIGURE]] As the above time-sequential observations at the mid-plane by confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) suggested a separation of the cortical MF band from the late G2 phase to mitosis, we attempted to observe the dynamics of the cortical MF structures in more detail. The MF band was observed in the late G2 phase, when a phragmosome structure could be clearly distinguished by a differential interference contrast (DIC) image obtained from light microscopy (Figure 4a,e). As the cell cycle progressed to mitosis, the MF band began to separate at the cell cortex, and a zone with a weak cortical MF network appeared at the centre of the MF band (Figure 4f–h). Measurements of fluorescent intensity at the cell cortex by fluorescent microscopy showed the highest intensity at the centre of the cell in the late G2 phase (Figure 4i). With cell-cycle progression, the fluorescent intensity at the cell centre decreased (Figure 4j) and resulted in the appearance of two peaks together with an increase in the distance between the MF band(s) (Figure 4k,l). In accordance with the reduced fluorescent intensity at the cell centre, the phragmosome structure became obscure (Figure 4d). Based on the distribution of fluorescent intensities of the cortical MF structures in mitosis, we named the structure composed of the two MF bands as the MF ‘twin peaks’ (MFTP). This MFTP structure was confirmed in another cell line of BY-GF8 and in BY-2 cells incubated with rhodamine-phalloidin after permeabilization (Figure 4m–r). A time-sequential observation at the cell surface also revealed the separation of the MF band (Figure 5). In the late G2 phase, MFs that were transversely oriented (Figure 5b) started to develop a meshwork structure and subsequently formed two MF bands with a weak MF network zone in mitosis (Figure 5h). [[FIGURE]] Continuation of the time-sequential observations to the G1 phase demonstrated that the cell plate was formed 120 min from the G2 phase (Figure 6a). The cell plate appeared to develop at the position previously occupied by the zone with a weak MF network in metaphase (Figure 6c). Measurement of the distances between the two peaks of the MFTP at mitosis, and also of that between one peak and the cell plate, indicated that the latter was almost half the distance of the former (Figure 6e), and suggested that the cell plate was formed in the valley of the MFTP. [[FIGURE]] To investigate the functional relevance of the MFTP to the cell plate guidance, we examined an effect of cytochalasin D (CD), an inhibitor of actin polymerization. When we applied CD (100 μm) 6 h after aphidicolin removal, the MF structures disappeared in 2 h (Figure 7a). Although cell-cycle progression was not affected by the CD treatment (Figure 7b), abnormal cell plates were observed 11 h after aphidicolin removal by aniline blue staining (Figure 7e). In the non-treated control cells the cell plates were smooth and sharp, while in the CD treated cells some were not vertical to the cell cortex and some were broad and twisted. Removal of the CD at 8 h restored the MF structures, but the cell plate was still twisted (Figure 7a,e). These ‘distorted’ cell plates were observed for approximately 30% of the cells treated with CD from 6 to 8 h, in which the cells with MFTP were mostly observed (Figure 7c,d). In contrast, in cells treated with CD from 9 to 11 h, in which phragmoplasts were mostly observed, the percentage of distorted cell plates decreased significantly (Figure 7c,d).
!~MM~! Tobacco BY-2 (Nicotiana tabacum L. cv. Bright Yellow 2) suspensions were diluted 95-fold with a modified Linsmaier and Skoog medium supplemented with 2,4-D (LSD) at weekly intervals, as described by CITATION. The cell suspensions were agitated on a rotary shaker at 130 rpm at 27°C in the dark. Cell synchronization was performed as described by CITATION. In brief, 10 ml 7-day-old cells were transferred to 95 ml fresh medium and cultured for 24 h with 5 mg l−1 aphidicolin (Sigma, St Louis, MO, USA). The cells were washed with 10 vol fresh medium and then resuspended in the same medium. After aphidicolin release, cell-cycle progression was monitored by counting the percentage of cells in mitosis (mitotic index), which was determined with a fluorescence microscope after staining the nuclei with 20 μg l−14′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI). The region encoding the second actin-binding domain (ABD2; amino acids 325–687) of AtFim1 (CITATION) was PCR amplified from an Arabidopsis thaliana cDNA library. The amplified fragment replaced the mTn of the CaMV 35S-sGFP (S65T)-mTn vector, kindly provided by Dr T. Kagawa of Tsukuba University, resulting in an in-frame fusion of N-terminus GFP and C-terminus fimbrin ABD2. The 35S-sGFP (S65T)-mTn vector was modified from the 35S-sGFP (S65T) vector, obtained from Dr Y. Niwa of Shizuoka Prefecture University, so as to contain 6 × Gly-Ala repeats between GFP and the mTn. The resulting 35S-sGFP (S65T)-fimbrin ABD2 region was then subcloned into the pCAMBIA1300 binary vector (CAMBIA, Canberra, Australia) for transformation. The GFP–fimbrin construct was transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain, LBA4404. A 4-ml aliquot of 3-day-old BY-2 cells was incubated with 100 μl overnight culture of the transformed A. tumefaciens as described by CITATION. After 2 days’ incubation at 27°C, cells were washed four times in 5 ml LSD medium, then plated onto solid LSD medium containing 500 mg l−1 carbenicillin and 15 mg l−1 hygromycin. Calluses, which appeared after 20 days, were transferred onto new plates and cultured independently until they reached approximately 1 cm in diameter, when they were transferred to 20 ml liquid LSD medium and agitated on a rotary shaker at 130 rpm at 27°C in the dark. After 1 month a cell line suitable for observing MFs was selected by examination of GFP-fluorescence by fluorescent microscopy, and the cell line obtained was designated BY-GF11. Transformation of cell suspensions of Arabidopsis Col-0 was performed essentially as described by CITATION with the same GFP–fimbrin ABD2 construct. A cell suspension of 3-day-old BY-2 cells was filtrated onto filter paper, and the cells bombarded with gold particles (1.0 μm) coated with the appropriate vector constructs using a particle-delivery system (PDS-1000/He, Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA, USA) according to the manufacturer's recommendations. Filtrated BY-2 cells were placed at a distance of 6 cm under the stopping screen and bombarded in a vacuum of 28 inches Hg at a helium pressure of 1100 psi. Following bombardment, cells were diluted in LSD medium and kept in the dark at 27°C for 6–12 h before observation. For simultaneous observations of rhodamine-phalloidin and GFP–fimbrin, the BY-GF11 cells were suspended in a solution containing 50 mm PIPES (pH 6.8), 1 mm MgSO4, 5 mm EGTA, 1.5% glycerol, 150 mm mannitol and 0.07 μm rhodamine-phalloidin (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR, USA) and incubated for 30 min at room temperature. For time-sequential observations, synchronized BY-GF11 cells were transferred into 35-mm-diameter Petri dishes with 14-mm-diameter coverslip windows at the bottom (Matsunami Glass Ind. Ltd, Osaka, Japan). The dishes were placed onto the inverted platform of a fluorescence microscope equipped with a confocal laser scanning head and control systems (CLSM GB-200; Olympus, Tokyo, Japan) or a cooled CCD camera head system (Cool-SNAP HQ; PhotoMetrics, Huntington Beach, Canada). Three-dimensional images were reconstructed from the continuous optical sections within a 0.5- μm step size using metamorph software (Universal Imaging, Downingtown, PA, USA). The images were processed digitally using photoshop software (Adobe, San Jose, CA, USA). On request, all novel materials described in this publication will be made available in a timely manner for non-commercial research purposes.
