!~ABS~! Iron (Fe) is necessary for all living cells, but its bioavailability is often limited. Fe deficiency limits agriculture in many areas and affects over a billion human beings worldwide. In mammals, NRAMP2/DMT1/DCT1 was identified as a major pathway for Fe acquisition and recycling. In plants, AtNRAMP3 and AtNRAMP4 are induced under Fe deficiency. The similitude of AtNRAMP3 and AtNRAMP4 expression patterns and their common targeting to the vacuole, together with the lack of obvious phenotype in nramp3‐1 and nramp4‐1 single knockout mutants, suggested a functional redundancy. Indeed, the germination of nramp3 nramp4 double mutants is arrested under low Fe nutrition and fully rescued by high Fe supply. Mutant seeds have wild type Fe content, but fail to retrieve Fe from the vacuolar globoids. Our work thus identifies for the first time the vacuole as an essential compartment for Fe storage in seeds. Our data indicate that mobilization of vacuolar Fe stores by AtNRAMP3 and AtNRAMP4 is crucial to support Arabidopsis early development until efficient systems for Fe acquisition from the soil take over.
!~RES~! To determine in which tissues AtNRAMP4 is expressed, we analyzed the activity of the AtNRAMP4 promoter in Arabidopsis using β‐glucuronidase (GUS) as a reporter gene. Arabidopsis (Ecotype Columbia and Wassilewskija (WS)) was transformed with a vector‐containing uidA gene downstream of 1928 base pairs of the genomic sequence upstream of AtNRAMP4 initiation codon (proNRAMP4). FIG-REF shows histochemical staining of GUS activity in plants transformed with proNRAMP4‐GUS grown for 7 days either under Fe‐replete conditions (100 μM FeHBED) or in an Fe‐depleted medium (no Fe, 100 μM ferrozine). Fe‐replete proAtNRAMP4‐GUS plants do not show any staining (FIG-REF). In contrast, under Fe‐depleted conditions, the AtNRAMP4 promoter drives the transcription of GUS in both roots and shoots (FIG-REF). The staining initiates in the early differentiation zone of the root and becomes stronger in older parts of the roots. The staining is stronger in the stele of roots (FIG-REF) and in the vascular bundles of leaves. Cross sections through the root revealed preferential expression in phloem tissues of the stele (FIG-REF). Similar expression patterns and regulations were observed in several transformed lines either in the Columbia (five lines) or WS ecotype (two lines). In comparison, plants transformed with proNRAMP4‐GUS grown for 7 days either under manganese (Mn)‐depleted conditions or Mn excess (1 mM) did not show any staining (Supplementary Figure S1A–C). [[FIGURE]] To quantify the effect of Fe nutrition on AtNRAMP4 promoter activity, we measured GUS enzymatic activity in protein extracts from the roots or shoots of proAtNRAMP4‐GUS Arabidopsis grown either in Fe‐deficient or Fe‐sufficient conditions. FIG-REF shows that GUS activity increased 6.5‐ and 3.4‐fold upon Fe starvation in roots and shoots, respectively. To determine whether the increase in AtNRAMP4 promoter activity is reflected at the protein level, we performed Western blot experiments using a polyclonal AtNRAMP4 antibody (CITATION). FIG-REF shows that AtNRAMP4 was hardly detectable in root or shoot extracts from Arabidopsis WS plants grown under high Fe supply (100 μM Fe, n=6 independent biological replica). In contrast, AtNRAMP4 protein accumulated in shoots (in six out of six experiments) and in roots (in two out of six experiments) of plants grown under Fe deficiency (no Fe, 100 μM ferrozine). In roots, AtNRAMP4 levels were close to the detection limit, preventing clear detection of changes in protein accumulation. In addition, AtNRAMP4 protein levels also increased under Mn depletion, but were unaffected by Mn excess (Supplementary Figure S1D). Taken together, our data show that AtNRAMP4 expression is upregulated under Fe deficiency. Both the tissue‐specific expression pattern of AtNRAMP4 and its upregulation under Fe starvation match the regulation of AtNRAMP3 expression (CITATION, CITATION). Furthermore, in A. thaliana ecotype WS, an increase in AtNRAMP4 protein correlates with the induction of AtNRAMP4 gene expression under low Fe supply. To investigate the function of AtNRAMP4 in Arabidopsis, we screened collections of insertion mutants for mutants carrying a T‐DNA in the coding region of AtNRAMP4 using PCR. An allele named nramp4‐1 was identified with a T‐DNA insertion 922 base pairs downstream of the initiation codon (FIG-REF). Western blots performed on the protein extracts of leaves and roots from either homozygous nramp4‐1 mutant or wild type plants showed that AtNRAMP4 could not be detected in the nramp4‐1 mutant protein extract (FIG-REF, n=2 independent biological replicates). This result indicates that nramp4‐1 is a null allele of AtNRAMP4. Homozygous nramp4‐1 mutants did not show any obvious phenotype either when grown on soil in the greenhouse or when grown in vitro on complete medium. Owing to the strong regulation of AtNRAMP4 expression by the plant Fe nutrition status, we tested whether nramp4‐1 mutants exhibited any phenotype under various Fe nutrition conditions. FIG-REF shows that no major difference between the root length of nramp4‐1 and wild type plants could be measured after germination and development for 16 days on synthetic media containing a range of Fe concentrations. No obvious difference in the level of chlorosis under Fe starvation between wild type and nramp4‐1 could be detected. Similar results were obtained when wild type and nramp3‐1 mutant, or plants overexpressing either AtNRAMP3 or AtNRAMP4 (CITATION; CITATION), were compared in the same growth conditions (FIG-REF and Supplementary Figure S2). AtNRAMP4 protein levels and regulation upon Fe starvation were similar in nramp3‐1 mutants and wild type Arabidopsis (n=2, data not shown). [[FIGURE]] In a previous study (CITATION), we have shown that AtNRAMP3 displays Fe regulation, tissue‐specific expression pattern similar to AtNRAMP4. In addition, expression of a functional NRAMP4‐GFP fusion protein in Arabidopsis shows that AtNRAMP4 is targeted to vacuolar membranes (Supplementary Figure S3), as is AtNRAMP3 (CITATION). Furthermore, AtNRAMP3 and AtNRAMP4 loci are located on duplicated regions of A. thaliana genome: At2g23150 and At5g67330 are included in the duplicated block 0204146800380 (http://wolfe.gen.tcd.ie/athal/dup). To test the hypothesis that AtNRAMP3 and AtNRAMP4 might encode transporters with redundant functions, we generated nramp3 nramp4 double mutants. The nramp3 nramp4 double mutants did not display any phenotype when grown on rich soil in the greenhouse and completed a normal life cycle. However, when mutant seed germination was observed more closely on complete synthetic medium containing 50 μM FeEDTA, they displayed an obvious retardation in cotyledon greening and in root growth during the first 4 days after sowing (FIG-REF). This phenotype was transient: the nramp3 nramp4 double mutant seedlings greened and completely recovered after another 6 days (FIG-REF). The mutant phenotype segregated with a 1:15 ratio in the F2 progenies consistent with the independent segregation of mutant alleles. [[FIGURE]] To confirm that the observed phenotype was due to the disruption of both redundant transporters AtNRAMP3 and AtNRAMP4, we tested whether AtNRAMP3 and AtNRAMP4 overexpression could complement the phenotype of nramp3 nramp4 double mutants. Using GFP expression in seeds as a selection marker for transformation (CITATION), we selected 12–20 independent T1 fluorescent seeds from wild type transformed with the empty vector or from nramp3 nramp4 transformed either with empty vector or with AtNRAMP3 or AtNRAMP4 cDNA driven by the 35S promoter. The phenotype of the fluorescent seeds was scored during germination. Expression of either AtNRAMP3 or AtNRAMP4 rescued the mutant phenotype in 78 or 69% of the primary transformants, respectively. In contrast, all mutant seeds transformed with the empty vector displayed a mutant phenotype. The double mutant phenotype could also be rescued by transformation with either AtNRAMP3 or AtNRAMP4 genes (from ∼2 kb upstream of the initiation codon to the stop codon; FIG-REF) and with AtNRAMP4–GFP fusion cDNA driven by the 35S promoter. [[FIGURE]] As both AtNRAMP3 and AtNRAMP4 are regulated by Fe and because chlorosis is often a symptom for Fe deficiency, we germinated nramp3 nramp4 double mutants under a range of Fe nutrition conditions. FIG-REF shows that under low Fe supply (0.15 μM Fe) nramp3 nramp4 double mutant development is arrested, their roots do not elongate and their cotyledons do not green, whereas wild type WS plants grown in the same conditions do not show developmental alterations during the first 10 days after germination. When nramp3 nramp4 mutants were germinated under high Fe supply, their growth and appearance was indistinguishable from that of wild type plants (FIG-REF). FIG-REF illustrates the progressive increase in severity of nramp3 nramp4 mutant root growth phenotype with progressive decrease of Fe availability in the medium. We tested whether increasing the level of other essential metals could also rescue nramp3 nramp4 phenotype. Neither an increase in Zn nor an increase in Mn supply rescued nramp3 nramp4 phenotype. Zn and Mn rather have inhibitory effects on early development, and nramp3 nramp4 mutants were even more sensitive to this inhibition than wild type seedlings. Conversely, Mn and Zn depletion of the growth medium (usually containing 30 μM Zn and 100 μM Mn) altered neither the wild type nor the nramp3 nramp4 mutant development during the first 10 days after sowing. Together, these results indicate that AtNRAMP3 and AtNRAMP4 act redundantly during seed germination and that the loss of AtNRAMP3 and AtNRAMP4 function results in dramatic and specific hypersensitivity to Fe starvation that can be fully rescued under high Fe supply. To study the consequence of nramp3 nramp4 double mutant hypersensitivity to Fe starvation revealed by in vitro experiments on plant survival in soil, we germinated wild‐type A. thaliana and nramp3 nramp4 mutants either on humic soil or on calcareous soil. Humic soils contain Fe chelated to humic acids facilitating Fe acquisition (CITATION). In contrast, calcareous soils often limit Fe acquisition because of their alkaline pH (CITATION). When wild‐type and nramp3 nramp4 mutant Arabidopsis were sown on humic soil, both genotypes germinated and developed green cotyledons after 6 days (FIG-REF). After 12 days, seedlings of both genotypes grew to healthy plants (FIG-REF). In contrast, when wild type and nramp3 nramp4 were sown on calcareous soil, the wild type seedlings developed green cotyledons, whereas the mutant seedlings did not green and appeared bleached after 6 days (FIG-REF). Most nramp3 nramp4 mutants did not develop further than 3 mm bleached seedlings and, after 12 days, extremely few nramp3 nramp4 mutant plants had survived. In contrast, most of the wild type seedlings had developed to a level comparable to the wild type plants grown on humic soil (FIG-REF). Disruption of both AtNRAMP3 and AtNRAMP4 genes results in early lethality for over 90% of Arabidopsis plants when they are grown on Fe‐limiting soil. [[FIGURE]] As the phenotype of nramp3 nramp4 mutants is particularly severe during germination under Fe‐limiting conditions, we studied the expression of AtNRAMP3 and AtNRAMP4 in these conditions. In addition, we monitored the expression of IRT1, a plasma membrane transport protein essential for Fe acquisition under Fe starvation (CITATION). Seeds containing either AtNRAMP3 or AtNRAMP4 or IRT1 promoter‐GUS constructs were germinated under Fe‐limiting conditions. The seedlings were stained for GUS activity 1, 2 and 3 days after sowing. FIG-REF shows that AtNRAMP3 and AtNRAMP4 were expressed during the early stages of germination (days 1 and 2). In contrast, IRT1 was not expressed during the first 2 days but became strongly induced on the third day. Similar results were obtained under high Fe supply, except that expression of IRT1 and AtNRAMP4 was lower on day 3 and AtNRAMP4 staining disappeared on day 7 (FIG-REF). The timing of AtNRAMP3 and AtNRAMP4 expression early during germination is thus consistent with the severe phenotype of the nramp3 nramp4 double mutant at this developmental stage. [[FIGURE]] The expression of AtNRAMP3 and AtNRAMP4 in cotyledons coincides with an early developmental arrest during germination in nramp3 nramp4 double mutants. To understand the cellular basis of this phenotype, we investigated the subcellular localization of AtNRAMP4 protein in cotyledon cells by immunolocalization using AtNRAMP4 antibodies. FIG-REF illustrates the localization of AtNRAMP4 in 2‐day‐old germinating seeds. Two different intracellular localization patterns were observed, sometimes within the same cotyledon: a punctuate localization within the vacuoles (FIG-REF) and a tonoplast localization surrounding the vacuoles corresponding to protein bodies in dry seeds (FIG-REF). No specific labelling was observed in cotyledons from nramp4‐1 mutants (FIG-REF). At this developmental stage, γTIP, a marker for lytic vacuoles, also localized around the vacuoles corresponding to protein bodies in dry seeds (FIG-REF) as well as on punctuate structures within the vacuoles (FIG-REF). To confirm that AtNRAMP4 and γTIP reside on the same membranes, coimmunolocalization experiments were performed. FIG-REF shows that AtNRAMP4 colocalized with γTIP in the tonoplast (E) and in the punctuate structures within the vacuoles (F) of cotyledon cells. [[FIGURE]] To further understand the function of AtNRAMP3 and AtNRAMP4 during seed germination, we compared the metal content in wild type and nramp3 nramp4 plants. As nramp3 nramp4 mutants display a strong phenotype during germination, we first analyzed the metal content in seeds. Table I shows the metal content in seeds, roots and shoots of wild type, single nramp3 and nramp4 mutants and the nramp3 nramp4 double mutant determined by Inductively Coupled Plasma Optical Emission Spectrometry (ICP‐OES). No significant difference in the seed contents in Fe, Mn and Zn could be detected between the wild type and any of the mutants (n=3, Table I). We then compared the metal content of wild type and nramp3 nramp4 seedlings grown for 14 days on complete synthetic medium. Table I shows that nramp3 nramp4 seedlings accumulated about 20% more Fe in their roots than wild type (n=3, Table I). Apart from this moderate increase in Fe, the accumulation of metals was not significantly altered in the nramp3 nramp4 double mutant. [[TABLE]] As AtNRAMP3 and AtNRAMP4 are targeted to the vacuolar membrane (Supplementary Figure S3 and FIG-REF; CITATION) and the nramp3 nramp4 mutant phenotype is rescued by Fe, we compared the fate of vacuolar Fe during germination of wild type and nramp3 nramp4 double mutants. FIG-REF shows the localization of Fe in cells of dry Arabidopsis seeds determined by electron microscopy coupled to Fe ESI (imaging of inelastically scattered electrons). In both wild type and nramp3 nramp4 cotyledon seeds, Fe could be localized to the electron dense globoids included in the protein bodies in agreement with earlier studies on different species (CITATION). This was confirmed by X ray analysis of individual globoids (FIG-REF): it revealed the presence of phosphate together with Ca, Mg as well as Zn and Fe, but, in agreement with a previous report (CITATION), almost no Mn. FIG-REF shows the localization of Fe in the globoids of cotyledon cells in 2‐day‐old seedlings. Whereas Fe was almost undetectable in globoids of the wild type cotyledon cells at this stage, Fe still mapped to the globoids of nramp3 nramp4 mutant cotyledon vacuoles 2 days after germination. FIG-REF shows representative Energy Dispersive X ray (EDX) spectra confirming the presence of Fe in nramp3 nramp4 globoids 2 days after germination, while Fe is missing in wild type globoids. Altogether, these results show that Fe is retained in globoids of the nramp3 nramp4 mutant during germination, while globoid Fe is rapidly mobilized from the vacuole in wild type cotyledons. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The isolation of the insertion mutant in AtNRAMP3 gene has been described previously (CITATION): nramp3‐1 was identified from T‐DNA insertion lines of A. thaliana ecotype WS. The T‐DNA insertion in AtNRAMP3 gene is located in the last exon between GLU467 and VAL468. The insertion mutant in AtNRAMP4 gene was identified by screening the T‐DNA insertion mutant collection of the Center for Biotechnology at the University of Wisconsin (http://www.biotech.wisc.edu/Arabidopsis/Index2.asp) by PCR using Ex‐Taq polymerase (Takara). Two pairs of primers were used, each including an AtNRAMP4 gene‐specific primer, NR4‐KOS or NR4‐KOR, and the T‐DNA primer, JL202 (Supplementary Table S1) specific for the left border of the T‐DNA. The PCR product from one pool (NR4‐KOS/JL202), which gave a positive signal after southern hybridization with an AtNRAMP4 cDNA probe, was re‐amplified by nested PCR using NR2‐4S and JL270 (Supplementary Table S1). Sequencing of the nested PCR product revealed that the T‐DNA insertion in AtNRAMP4 is localized 922 bp from the initiation codon on the genomic sequence. The T‐DNA insertion in AtNRAMP4 is predicted to truncate the protein after glutamine 234. F2 populations from reciprocal crosses between nramp3‐1 and nramp4‐1 single mutants were generated. Several double knockout mutants were isolated after genotyping of 48 F2 plants using the primers designed for single knockout allele identification. Note that the wild type and single nramp3 and nramp4 mutants used in this study originate from the same F2 progeny. To complement nramp3 nramp4 double mutants, AtNRAMP3 and AtNRAMP4 coding sequences were amplified using Advantage cDNA Taq polymerase (Clontech) with NR3BamH1S and NR3‐SalR, or NR4BamH1S and NR4‐SalR (Supplementary Table S1). The products were cloned between the BamH1 and Sal1 restriction sites in pFP101. pFP101, which gave rise to the pALLIGATOR plasmid family, includes GFP driven by the At2S3 seed‐specific promoter as a selectable marker for transformed seeds, but does not contain a triple HA tag and Gateway cassette (CITATION). Empty pFP101, pFP101‐AtNRAMP3 and pFP101‐AtNRAMP4 were introduced into nramp3 nramp4 and WS plants through Agrobacterium‐mediated transformation. Primary transformant seeds were selected on the basis of GFP fluorescence (CITATION). Alternately, AtNRAMP3 and AtNRAMP4 genes were amplified from BAC T20D16 and K8K14 using Advantage cDNA Taq polymerase (Clontech) with the primers proNR1S and cmycNR1‐R for AtNRAMP3 or proNR2S and cmycNR2‐R for AtNRAMP4 (Supplementary Table S1). The PCR products were cloned in the pRD400 binary vector. Empty pRD400 and pRD400 containing AtNRAMP genes were introduced in nramp3 nramp4 mutants through Agrobacterium‐mediated transformation. Primary transformants were selected on the basis of the complementation of the mutant phenotype (growth on ABIS medium containing 0.3 μM Fe). No complemented seedling was recovered after transformation with the empty pRD400. Arabidopsis seedlings were grown on plates containing 2.5 mM H3PO4, 5 mM KNO3, 2 mM MgSO4, 1 mM Ca(NO3)2, Murashige and Skoog microelements, 1% sucrose, 1% Phytagel, 1 mM MES adjusted with KOH to pH 6.1 and 50 μM FeEDTA (ABIS medium). To control Fe nutrition, Fe EDTA was substituted with a range of concentrations of FeHBED as indicated in the figures. FeHBED was prepared as a 10 mM stock solution from FeCl3 (Sigma, Saint Louis, MO) and HBED (N,N′‐di(2‐hydroxybenzyl)ethylene diamine‐N,N′‐diacetic acid monochloride hydrate (Strem Chemicals, Newburyport, MA). HBED was added with a 10% excess to ensure that all Fe is chelated. To deplete the medium with Fe, Fe was omitted and 100 μM ferrozine was added to the ABIS medium (‘−Fe’). The genomic sequence upstream of AtNRAMP4 initiation codon (1928 base pairs) was amplified by PCR from the BAC K8K14 using Advantage cDNA Taq polymerase (Clontech) and the primers ProNR2S and ProNR2R (Supplementary Table S1). The PCR fragment was cloned in pCAMBIA 1381Z. Constructs in which the AtNRAMP4 promoter was driving the expression of the uidA gene were used in parallel with empty pCAMBIA 1381Z for Agrobacterium tumefaciens‐mediated Arabidopsis transformation. For histological analysis, Arabidopsis seedlings were grown on +Fe or −Fe plates (see growth conditions) and stained as described (CITATION). To generate sections, seedlings were embedded according to Technovit 7100 instructions (EBSciences) and as described (CITATION). Cross sections of 15 μm through the roots were realized and observed. For GUS activity assays, plants were grown for 7 days on plates containing Fe‐replete medium and then either on the same medium (+Fe) or on −Fe medium and grown for another for 7 days. GUS activity was quantified independently in roots and shoots as described (CITATION). A. thaliana, ecotype WS, wild type or nramp4‐1 mutant were grown vertically for 7 days on ABIS medium contaning 100 μM FeHBED and transferred for another 7 days on a medium containing either 100 μM FeHBED (+Fe) or no Fe and 100 μM ferrozine (−Fe). Total proteins from shoot or root tissues were extracted and separated as described (CITATION). The proteins were detected by anti‐NRAMP4 antibodies and then revealed by goat anti‐rabbit, conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (Amersham Biosciences) and visualized using the enhanced chemioluminescence ECL+kit (Amersham Biosciences). Immunostaining procedures were performed on sections of 2‐day‐old A. thaliana seedlings embedded in PEG. Simple labelling was performed as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). Double labelling of cells with two rabbit primary antibodies was performed using Fab fragments in the first step and a fixation before the second hybridization (CITATION). After incubation with the first primary antibody, cells were incubated with an excess of the secondary antibody anti‐rabbit Fab fragment coupled to FITC diluted to 1/50 (Interchim). Sections were then washed and post‐fixed for 1 h with 3.7% para‐formaldehyde in PBS and rinsed overnight with buffer alone. Nonspecific binding sites were blocked with buffer containing 1% (w/v) BSA and the cells were then treated with the second primary antibody, followed by the second secondary antibody (anti‐rabbit IgG conjugated with Cy3, 1:800, Interchim). Primary antibodies were rabbit polyclonal antibody AtNRAMP4 1:200 (CITATION) and the lytic vacuole marker rabbit polyclonal γTIP 1:200 (CITATION). Images were collected with a Leica laser‐scanning confocal microscope TCS SP2 (Leica Microsystems, Heidelberg, Germany). Fluorochromes were detected sequentially using laser lines 488 and 543 nm. Seedlings were grown vertically for 12 days on plates containing ABIS medium with 1% agar. Roots and shoots were harvested separately and washed. The dry weight (DW) of the samples was measured after drying at 60°C for 3 days. The dried samples were digested in a mixture of 1 ml of 65% nitric acid and 0.5 ml ultrapure H2O in a MARS5 microwave (CEM GmbH, Kamp‐Lintford, Germany) at 200°C at 15 bar for 10 min. After dilution in trace metal‐free water, the metal content of the samples was determined by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy using an IRIS Advantage Duo ER/S (Thermo Jarrell Ash, Franklin, MA, USA). Dry seeds were treated as dry samples. Fe content in seeds was determined as described previously (CITATION). Copper, manganese and zinc contents were determined by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy using a PQ II Turbo+ quadrupole inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometer (VG Elemental, Cambridge, UK). Electron microscopy experiments were performed as described (CITATION): dry seeds or seeds 2 days after hydration were chilled in liquid propane (JFD 030, Balzers, Lichtenstein) and freeze substituted in methanol for 4 days (CS auto, Leica, Bensheim, Germany). The temperature was then increased slowly (1°C/h) to −20°C and the material was embedded in Lowicryl 4KM. UV polymerization was performed at −20°C for 2 days. Sections (100 nm) were observed with a transmission electron microscope equipped with an energy filter (EM912 Omega, Zeiss, Oberkochen, Germany) and an EDX analyser (Link exIII, Oxford Instruments, High Wycombe, Bucks, UK). For ESI, images were recorded with a SIT‐TV camera with an energy resolution of about 5 eV and processed with an image‐processing system (Analysis 3.0, SIS software GmbH, Münster, Germany). For colocalization, the ESI images of Fe were background‐subtracted, colored and overlaid with a zero loss image. Supplementary data are available at The EMBO Journal Online.
