!~ABS~! Secondary walls in vessels and fibers of dicotyledonous plants are mainly composed of cellulose, xylan, and lignin. Although genes involved in biosynthesis of cellulose and lignin have been intensively studied, little is known about genes participating in xylan synthesis. We found that Arabidopsis thaliana fragile fiber8 (fra8) is defective in xylan synthesis. The fra8 mutation caused a dramatic reduction in fiber wall thickness and a decrease in stem strength. FRA8 was found to encode a member of glycosyltransferase family 47 and exhibits high sequence similarity to tobacco (Nicotiana plumbaginifolia) pectin glucuronyltransferase. FRA8 is expressed specifically in developing vessels and fiber cells, and FRA8 is targeted to Golgi. Comparative analyses of cell wall polysaccharide fractions from fra8 and wild-type stems showed that the xylan and cellulose contents are drastically reduced in fra8, whereas xyloglucan and pectin are elevated. Further structural analysis of cell walls revealed that although wild-type xylans contain both glucuronic acid and 4-O-methylglucuronic acid residues, xylans from fra8 retain only 4-O-methylglucuronic acid, indicating that the fra8 mutation results in a specific defect in the addition of glucuronic acid residues onto xylans. These findings suggest that FRA8 is a glucuronyltransferase involved in the biosynthesis of glucuronoxylan during secondary wall formation.
!~RES~! Arabidopsis inflorescence stems develop interfascicular fibers that confer increased mechanical strength to the stem, as demonstrated in the ifl1 mutant (CITATION). To investigate genes involved in secondary wall synthesis, we screened for Arabidopsis mutants defective in fiber wall strength and isolated fra8, a previously unidentified mutant. The fra8 mutation caused a dramatic reduction in the mechanical strength of stems. The force required for breaking apart the bottom parts of mature fra8 stems was 7 times less than that for the wild type (Figure 1A). [[FIGURE]] To determine whether the fragile stem phenotype in fra8 was caused by defective fibers, we examined fiber cell morphology and wall thickness. Cross and longitudinal sections of stems showed that although the length of fiber cells was not affected in the fra8 mutant (data not shown), the wall thickness of fra8 fibers was greatly decreased compared with that of the wild type (Figures 1D and 1E). Transmission electron microscopy demonstrated that the wall thickness of fra8 fibers was reduced to 38% of that of the wild type (Figures 2A to 2D, Table 1). Since the staining did not resolve the distinct layers of secondary walls, it is not certain whether the fra8 mutation affected the deposition of specific cell wall layers. It was also found that the fra8 mutation resulted in deformation of xylem vessels in stems and roots (Figures 1B, 1C, 1F, and 1G). In the fra8 mutant, the vessel walls often collapsed inward, most likely due to the reduced wall strength. This phenotype is similar to the collapsed xylem phenotype caused by mutations of cellulose synthase genes involved in secondary wall synthesis (CITATION; CITATION, CITATION) and by downregulation of lignin biosynthesis in tobacco and Arabidopsis (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The wall thickness of fra8 vessels was reduced to 42% of that of the wild type as shown by transmission electron microscopy (Figures 2E to 2H, Table 1). These results demonstrate that the fra8 mutation causes a dramatic decrease in secondary wall thickness in both fibers and vessels. [[FIGURE]] Wall Thickness of Fibers and Vessels in the Stems of Wild-Type and fra8 Mutant Plants In addition to the defective cell wall phenotypes, we found that the fra8 mutation affected plant growth. The fra8 inflorescence stems were shorter in height (Figures 3A to 3C), and its rosette leaves were smaller in size (Figures 3D to 3F), as compared with the wild type. It was also noted that fra8 leaves exhibited a mild wilty phenotype on sunny afternoons under greenhouse conditions even when the plants were well watered (Figures 3G and 3H). It is likely that the deformed vessels in fra8 impede the transport of water and minerals, which in turn results in the wilty phenotype and the reduced plant growth. This wilty phenotype is similar, albeit to a lesser extent, to the reduced water transport and wilty phenotype of the tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) wilty-dwarf mutant, in which the vessels have compound perforation plates instead of simple perforation plates as seen in the wild type (CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To further investigate the function of FRA8, we undertook the positional cloning of the FRA8 gene. Using F2 mapping plants generated by crossing the fra8 mutant and the wild-type ecotype Landsberg erecta, we mapped the fra8 locus to a region near the COP1 marker on chromosome 2 (Figure 4A). Further mapping with adjacent markers revealed that the fra8 locus was located between GPA1 and T27A16 markers. Based on the sequence information of BAC clones between these two markers, we developed additional mapping markers and used them to gradually narrow the fra8 locus to a 42-kb region within the BAC clone F24D13 (Figure 4A). [[FIGURE]] According to the genome annotations of chromosome 2 from the Arabidopsis genome database, the 42-kb region in which the fra8 locus is located encompasses nine putative genes. In order to determine which of these genes carried the fra8 mutation, we sequenced all nine genes from the fra8 mutant. Comparison of the gene sequences from the fra8 mutant with those from the wild type revealed a point mutation (C-to-T) in one of these genes, F24D13.10 (At2g28110) (Figure 4B). The C-to-T mutation resulted in loss of a BanII site in the F24D13.10 gene (Figure 4C). To confirm that the C-to-T mutation in F24D13.10 was responsible for the phenotypes observed in the fra8 mutant, we transformed a 4.6-kb genomic DNA fragment containing the wild-type F24D13.10 gene (Figure 4A) into the fra8 mutant and examined the phenotypes of the transgenic plants. It was found that the wild-type F24D13.10 gene completely rescued the fra8 phenotypes, including the fiber wall thickness and vessel morphology (Figures 4D and 4E), along with stem mechanical strength and plant growth (data not shown). These results unequivocally demonstrate that the C-to-T mutation in the F24D13.10 gene is responsible for the fra8 mutant phenotypes; therefore, F24D13.10 represents the FRA8 gene. To perform molecular characterization of the FRA8 gene, we isolated the full-length FRA8 cDNA. Comparison of the sequences of FRA8 gene and its cDNA revealed that the FRA8 gene consists of four exons and three introns with a length of 1618 bp from the start codon to the stop codon (Figure 4A). The longest open reading frame in the FRA8 cDNA is 1347 bp long, and it encodes a protein of 448 amino acid residues with a predicted molecular mass of 51,694 D and a predicted pI of 9.3. The fra8 mutation occurred in the 4th exon of the FRA8 gene. Comparison of the wild-type and fra8 cDNAs and their deduced amino acid sequences showed that the fra8 missense mutation changes a Pro codon CCA to a Leu codon CTA (Figure 4B). A search of the GenBank conserved domain database revealed that the deduced FRA8 protein contains a domain that shares significant sequence similarity with the pfam03016 domain (Figure 5A). The pfam03016 domain was first defined based on the β-glucuronyltransferase domain of animal exostosins, and putative GTs containing this domain are grouped as GT family 47 (CITATION). In the Arabidopsis genome, 39 genes, including FRA8, have been identified as members of GT family 47 (http://afmb.cnrs-mrs.fr/CAZY/; CITATION; CITATION). Of these, the At1g27440 (AtGUT1) and At5g61840 (AtGUT2) genes, two putative orthologs of tobacco NpGUT1, were thought to encode β-glucuronyltransferases involved in pectin synthesis (CITATION), and the MUR3 gene was proven to encode a xyloglucan β-galactosyltransferase (CITATION). FRA8, together with a FRA8 homolog (At5g22940), show the highest sequence similarity to tobacco NpGUT1 and its putative Arabidopsis orthologs, At1g27440 and At5g61840 (Figure 5A, Table 2). [[FIGURE]] Identity and Similarity of the Conserved Domains of FRA8 and Other GT Family 47 Proteins The most significant sequence similarity among the 39 Arabidopsis GT family 47 proteins and between Arabidopsis GT family 47 proteins and animal exostosins resides within the GT signature motif (CITATION; CITATION). The fra8 missense mutation occurred at an amino acid residue Pro within the GT signature motif. It is noteworthy that the GT signature motifs of FRA8 and its homolog, At5g22940, show much higher sequence similarity with those of NpGUT1 and its Arabidopsis orthologs than with MUR3 (Figure 5A). This is consistent with the phylogenetic data showing that FRA8, At5g22940, At1g27440, At5g61840, and NpGUT1 are grouped as closely related members (CITATION; CITATION). In addition, the Pro residue that is mutated in fra8 is completely conserved among FRA8 and NpGUT1 and its Arabidopsis orthologs but not among MUR3 and its homologs (Figure 5A). These findings suggest that FRA8 and NpGUT1 might share a similar (i.e., glucuronyltransferase) biochemical activity and that the Pro residue is essential for their functions. To investigate the expression pattern of the FRA8 gene, we first used the semiquantitative RT-PCR method to examine its expression in various organs. It was found that although the FRA8 gene was expressed in all of the organs examined, it showed the highest expression in developing stems and 8-week-old roots (Figure 5B), both of which had a large number of developing vessels and fibers (data not shown). Interestingly, the FRA8 homolog, At5g22940, was mainly expressed in seedlings, young stems, and inflorescence apices (Figure 5B). We next used the β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene to examine the tissue-level expression pattern of the FRA8 gene. To do this, we employed the 4.6-kb genomic DNA fragment containing the wild-type FRA8 gene that was used for the complementation study (Figure 4A). Because this genomic DNA fragment was sufficient to complement the fra8 mutant phenotypes, it should contain all elements responsible for the expression of the endogenous FRA8 gene. The GUS reporter gene was inserted in frame just before the stop codon of the FRA8 gene in a binary vector to create the FRA8-GUS construct. Transformation of this construct into the fra8 mutant plants completely rescued the mutant phenotypes (data not shown). Examination of GUS activity in the inflorescence stems of the transgenic plants revealed that in early elongating internodes where no interfascicular fibers were visible, the GUS signals were only present in developing xylem but absent in interfascicular regions (Figure 6A). In internodes near cessation of elongation when fiber cells are clearly visible and in nonelongating internodes in which fiber cells undergo massive secondary wall deposition (CITATION), the GUS staining was intensive in both interfascicular fibers and developing xylem cells (Figures 6B and 6C). In mature internodes in which interfascicular fibers had thick secondary walls, little GUS staining was seen in interfascicular fibers. However, intensive GUS staining was still present in developing xylem cells but absent in mature ones (Figure 6D). [[FIGURE]] A similar GUS expression pattern was also observed in roots that underwent secondary growth. The GUS staining was evident only in developing root xylem cells but absent in mature ones (Figure 6E). In the seedling stage, the GUS staining was confined in the vascular strands of roots, cotyledons, hypocotyls, and leaves (Figures 6F to 6I). These results demonstrate that the FRA8 gene is specifically expressed in cells undergoing secondary wall deposition. The tight association of FRA8 gene expression with secondary wall synthesis in fibers and vessels is consistent with the defective fiber and vessel phenotypes seen in the fra8 mutant. Sequence analysis using the TMHMM2.0 program for prediction of transmembrane helices in proteins (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TMHMM-2.0/) predicted that FRA8 is a type II membrane protein that contains a short cytoplasmic N terminus followed by a single transmembrane helix and a long noncytoplasmic C terminus (Figure 7A). Further sequence analysis predicted FRA8 to be a Golgi-localized protein using the Golgi predictor program (http://ccb.imb.uq.edu.au/golgi/golgi_predictor.shtml). To determine the actual subcellular location of FRA8, we expressed green fluorescent protein (GFP)–tagged FRA8 in Arabidopsis plants. Examination of the root cells of the transgenic plants showed that the FRA8-GFP signal displayed a punctate pattern (Figures 7B and 7C), whereas the GFP control protein had signals throughout the cytoplasm and the nucleus (Figures 7D and 7E). This observation indicates that FRA8 is targeted to certain subcellular organelles. [[FIGURE]] To discern the exact subcellular location of FRA8, we performed colocalization experiments in carrot (Daucus carota) protoplasts. As with the FRA8-GFP protein expressed in Arabidopsis root cells, enhanced cyan fluorescent protein (ECFP)–tagged FRA8 exhibited a punctate localization pattern in carrot protoplasts (Figures 7H and 7I). Colocalization experiments (Figures 7H to 7K) revealed that the pattern of FRA8-ECFP was identical to that of enhanced yellow fluorescent protein (EYFP)–tagged MUR4, a UDP-d-xylose 4-epimerase previously shown to be localized in Golgi (CITATION). The EYFP control protein was seen to be distributed throughout the cytoplasm and the nucleus (Figures 7F and 7G). Together, these results demonstrate that FRA8 is a Golgi-localized protein. Because FRA8 is a member of GT family 47 and it is localized in Golgi, we reasoned that FRA8 may be involved in the biosynthesis of a noncellulosic polysaccharide in the cell wall. To ascertain whether the fra8 mutation caused an overall reduction in cell wall synthesis or a specific effect on the synthesis of a particular polysaccharide, we examined the neutral sugar composition of cell walls isolated from fra8 stems. This analysis revealed that xylose and glucose, which are the main components of xylan and cellulose, respectively, were profoundly affected in fra8. The amount of cell wall xylose and glucose in fra8 stems was reduced by 56 and 25%, respectively, compared with the wild type (Table 3). By contrast, the amount of several other wall neutral sugars, including mannose, galactose, and arabinose, was significantly increased in the fra8 mutant. Neutral Monosaccharide Composition of Cell Walls from the Stems of Wild-Type and fra8 Plants In order to determine which specific cell wall polysaccharides are affected by the fra8 mutation, we isolated individual polysaccharide fractions for compositional analysis. Cell walls, in the form of alcohol insoluble residues (AIRs), were prepared from the stems of wild-type and fra8 plants, and they were subjected to sequential extraction with specific polysaccharide-cleaving enzymes and chemical reagents that disrupt the cell wall, yielding five water-soluble fractions plus cellulose (see Methods). These fractions, in turn, were subjected to glycosyl composition analysis using techniques that permit the quantitation of both neutral and acidic monosaccharides. As shown in Table 4, the overall monosaccharide yields were lower for the fra8 mutant than for the wild type. Enzyme-extracted fractions were obtained by treatment with endo-polygalacturonase (EPG) to generate the pectin fraction and subsequent treatment with a xyloglucan-specific endo-glucanase (XEG) to generate the XEG fraction. Although these enzyme-extracted fractions constitute a greater portion of the cell wall in fra8 plants than in wild-type plants, the ratios of individual monosaccharides within these two fractions are not significantly different when fra8 and wild-type cell walls are compared (Table 4). Glycosyl Compositions of Fractions from Wild-Type and fra8 Cell Walls Xyl, GlcA, and 4-O-Me-GlcA are the main components of xylans, which are a major component of the 1 and 4 N KOH-extracted fractions (Table 4). It was found that the Xyl content of the 1 and 4 N KOH fractions extracted from fra8 walls was decreased to ∼25 and 50%, respectively, of the wild-type amounts, and the GlcA content of these fractions was <20% of the wild-type amounts. Interestingly, the ratio of 4-O-Me-GlcA to Xyl was higher in fra8 than in the wild type. The amount of Xyl that remained associated in the cell wall after the KOH extraction (TFA fraction in Table 4) was also reduced in the fra8 mutant in comparison with the wild type. The fra8 mutation did not lead to any apparent reduction in the base extractability of xylan, as this would lead to an increase in the xylose content of the trifluoroacetic acid (TFA) fraction or the residual α-cellulose fraction, but this was not observed. In addition, the cellulose content of the fra8 cell walls was drastically reduced compared with that of wild-type walls (Table 4). Of the GT family 47 enzymes whose specific biochemical function is supported by experimental evidence, the one most closely related to FRA8 is NpGUT1 (CITATION). Based on sequence homology to exostosins and the fact that mutation of the NpGUT1 gene causes a decrease in the GlcA content of a complex pectic polysaccharide known as RGII, it was concluded that NpGUT1 encodes a pectin β-glucuronyltransferase. Mutation of NpGUT1 also leads to observable cell wall abnormalities that are likely to stem from a decreased capacity of the modified RGII to dimerize via the formation of borate-diester cross-links. The fact that the fra8 mutation has no significant effect on the GlcA content of the pectin fraction makes it unlikely that FRA8 is a β-glucuronyltransferase involved in pectin biosynthesis. However, in order to rule out the possibility that FRA8 and NpGUT1 have the same activity and that the fra8 phenotype is due to a change in RGII structure, the dimerization of RGII from fra8 and wild-type cell walls was analyzed chromatographically. Figure 8 shows the main components of the pectin fractions obtained from the wild-type and fra8 mutant cell walls separated by size-exclusion chromatography. The RGII dimer was significantly more abundant than the monomer in the pectic fractions from both wild-type and fra8 plants. Treatment of either pectin fraction with 0.1 N HCl, which hydrolyzes the RGII dimer to the monomer form, produced the same effect in both cases, confirming the identity of the RGII dimer peak. These results demonstrate that the fra8 mutation has no effect on RGII dimerization, indicating that FRA8 and NpGUT1 have distinct biochemical activities. They also suggest that the physiological effects of the fra8 mutation have a different origin than those observed when the NpGUT1 gene is mutated in tobacco. [[FIGURE]] We also analyzed the structure of xyloglucan oligosaccharides isolated from the XEG-extracted fraction from the cell walls of fra8 and wild-type plants. Matrix-assisted laser-desorption ionization time of flight (MALDI-TOF) and NMR analyses of these oligosaccharides showed no significant structural differences (data not shown). As the fra8 mutation has significant effects on the Xyl and GlcA content of the cell wall (Table 4), the xylose-rich 1 and 4 N KOH fractions from the cell walls of the wild-type, fra8, and fra8 plants complemented with the wild-type FRA8 gene were analyzed. Xyloglucan and xylan are released from the cell wall with 1 and 4 N KOH, and both polymers contain high amounts of xylose. To identify the polysaccharide responsible for the observed loss of xylose, these fractions were incubated with a β-endoxylanase, which digests glucuronoxylans but is not able to degrade xyloglucan, as confirmed by our experiments. The resulting digestion products were separated by size-exclusion chromatography. Endoxylanase treatment converted ∼78% of the 1 and 4 N KOH fractions from wild-type stems into oligosaccharides. By contrast, this treatment of the 1 and 4 N KOH fractions from fra8 stems converted only 53 and 44%, respectively, of these samples into oligosaccharides. The undigested (polymeric) materials were identified by NMR as mainly xyloglucan (data not shown). The acidic oligosaccharides produced by digestion were partially purified and analyzed by MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry (MS), as described in the next paragraph. Neutral xylan oligosaccharide products were also detected. The yields of both the acidic and neutral oligosaccharides were lower when fra8 extracts were digested than when wild-type extracts were digested. Analysis of the 1 and 4 N KOH fractions gave similar results, and only the spectra of the oligosaccharides from the 4 N KOH fraction are presented (Figure 9). [[FIGURE]] The most abundant ions in the spectra of all acidic xylan oligosaccharide fractions occur at mass-to-charge ratios (m/z) 759, 891, and 1022, a series with an incremental mass of 132 D, which is consistent with the sequential addition of a pentosyl residue to the oligosaccharide. These fractions are rich in Xyl and contain very little Ara (Table 4), indicating that this pentosyl residue is Xyl. Therefore, this series of ions was attributed to oligosaccharides with four, five, and six Xyl residues substituted with one 4-O-Me-GlcA (XnM). The ions at m/z 781, 912, and 1044 were attributed to the doubly sodiated species [M-H + 2Na]+ of the same series of oligosaccharides (CITATION). Assignment of these ions was supported by observation of the same series of ions in the MALDI-TOF spectrum of oligosaccharides obtained by endoxylanase digestion of a 4-O-methyl-glucuronoxylan purchased from Sigma-Aldrich (data not shown). This commercially available polysaccharide has a backbone of 1,4-linked d-Xylp residues, some of which are substituted at O-2 with 4-O-Me-α-d-GlcpA residues. Comparison of the spectra of the wild type and fra8 showed no alteration in the abundance of ions at m/z 759, 891, and 1022 (Figures 9B to 9D), indicating that the fra8 mutation does not affect the addition of 4-O-Me-GlcA onto xylan. Another series of ions at m/z 745, 877, and 1008 also showed a mass increment of 132 D with a difference of 14 D relative to the XnM series (Figure 9B). These ions were attributed to oligosaccharides with four, five, and six Xyl residues substituted with one GlcA (XnG). The spectrum for the fra8 mutant showed a drastic reduction in the abundance of these ions compared with the wild type (Figures 9B and 9C), indicating that the fra8 mutation causes a specific defect in the addition of GlcA onto xylan. Xylan oligosaccharide fractions obtained from the fra8 mutant complemented with the wild-type FRA8 gene gave MALDI-TOF spectra similar to the wild type with high abundance ions in the XnG series (Figure 9D), confirming that the defect in the addition of GlcA onto xylan in the mutant is caused by mutation of the FRA8 gene. To further prove the structural defect of xylan in the fra8 mutant, 1H-NMR spectra of the purified xylan oligosaccharides obtained from the cell walls of wild-type, fra8, and fra8 complemented plants were recorded (Figure 10). All the spectra included anomeric resonances at δ 5.183 and 4.583, characteristic for the α- and β-configurations, respectively, of the reducing d-Xylp residue. In the spectrum of the oligosaccharides from wild-type plants (Figure 10A), two additional anomeric resonances (δ 5.301 and 5.282) were attributed to α-d-GlcpA and 4-O-Me-α-d-GlcpA residues, respectively, in glucuronoxylan oligosaccharides. The scalar coupling (J1,2) of ∼3.9 Hz for these H-1 signals indicates an α-configuration, consistent with this assignment. Two other diagnostic resonances (δ 5.301 and 5.282) were assigned to H-5 of α-d-GlcpA and 4-O-Me-α-d-GlcpA residues, respectively. Substitution (at O-2) of β-d-Xylp residues with an α-d-GlcpA or 4-O-Me-α-d-GlcpA residue caused an downfield shift of H-1 (relative to the unsubstituted β-d-Xylp residues) from δ 4.45 to 4.48 to δ 4.638 and 4.624, respectively. [[FIGURE]] The resonances assigned to 4-O-Me-α-d-GlcpA residues and β-d-Xylp residues with a 4-O-Me-α-d-GlcpA residue at O-2 were present in the 1H-NMR spectrum of the oligosaccharides obtained by digestion of the commercial 4-O-methyl glucuronoxylan (Sigma-Aldrich). However, the 1H-NMR spectra of the oligosaccharides from this commercial source did not contain resonances assigned to α-d-GlcpA residues or β-d-Xylp residues with an α-d-GlcpA residue at O-2 (data not shown). The 1H-NMR assignments were realized by comparison with the data in the literature for sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) glucuronoarabinoxylan (CITATION) and rigorously confirmed by two-dimensional NMR experiments (gCOSY, gHSQC, and HMBC; data not shown) (CITATION). These experiments also established O-2 of the β-d-Xylp residues as the location of the α-d-GlcpA and 4-O-Me-α-d-GlcpA substituents, as previously reported for other acidic xylans (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Examination of the 1H-NMR spectra of the acidic xylan oligosaccharides from fra8 and wild-type plants showed that the wild type and fra8 contain similar resonances assigned to H-1 and H-5 of 4-O-Me-α-d-GlcpA residues and to H-1 of unbranched β-d-Xylp residues and β-d-Xylp residues substituted at O-2 with 4-O-Me-α-d-GlcpA (Figures 10A and 10B). By contrast, whereas resonances assigned to H-1 and H-5 of α-d-GlcpA residues and to H-1 of β-d-Xylp residues substituted with α-d-GlcpA are evident in the spectrum of the wild-type oligosaccharides, they are virtually absent in fra8 (Figures 10A and 10B). Complementation of the fra8 mutant with the wild-type FRA8 gene resulted in the production of acidic xylan oligosaccharides with an 1H-NMR spectrum similar to the wild type (Figures 10A and 10C), in which the resonances diagnostic for the presence of α-d-GlcpA residues are restored. These spectroscopic results lead to the following conclusions. (1) Acidic xylans in the stems of wild-type Arabidopsis plants contain both α-d-GlcpA and 4-O-Me-α-d-GlcpA residues, with the latter being the most abundant. (2) Acidic xylans in the stems of fra8 plants retain 4-O-Me-α-d-GlcpA residues but are practically devoid of α-d-GlcpA residues. (3) Complementation of fra8 plants with the wild-type FRA8 gene restores the production of acidic xylans containing both α-d-GlcpA and 4-O-Me-α-d-GlcpA residues.
!~MM~! M2 Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Columbia) plants generated from ethyl methanesulfonate mutagenization were grown in a greenhouse, and their inflorescence stems were screened for mutants with reduced breaking strength. Stems were divided into three equal segments, and each segment was measured for its breaking force using a digital force/length tester (model DHT4-50; Larson System). The breaking force was calculated as the force needed to break apart a stem segment (CITATION). Putative mutants with reduced stem breaking strength were selected and backcrossed with wild-type Columbia three times before analysis. Stem samples were fixed in 2% (v/v) glutaraldehyde in PEMT buffer (50 mM PIPES, 2 mM EGTA, 2 mM MgSO4, and 0.05% [v/v] Triton X-100, pH 7.2) at 4°C overnight. After being washed in phosphate buffer (50 mM, pH 7.2), samples were postfixed in 2% (v/v) OsO4 for 2 h and then dehydrated through a gradient of ethanol, incubated in propylene oxide, and embedded in low viscosity (Spurr's) resin (Electron Microscopy Sciences; CITATION). One-micrometer-thick sections were cut, stained with toluidine blue, and viewed under a light microscope. For transmission electron microscopy, 85-nm ultrathin sections were cut, picked up on slot grids, and allowed to dry down onto formvar-coated aluminum racks according to the procedure of CITATION. After post-staining with uranyl acetate and lead citrate, the specimens were observed under a Zeiss EM 902A transmission electron microscope (Carl Zeiss). The fra8 mutant (ecotype Columbia) was crossed with Arabidopsis ecotype Landsberg erecta to generate 1650 F2 mapping plants. Fine mapping of the fra8 locus was done with codominant amplified polymorphic sequence markers according to CITATION. Codominant amplified polymorphic sequence markers were developed based on sequence information from the Cereon Arabidopsis polymorphic database (http://www.arabidopsis.org/cereon). For complementation analysis, a 4.6-kb genomic DNA fragment containing the wild-type FRA8 gene, including a 2-kb 5′ upstream sequence, the entire exon and intron regions, and a 1-kb 3′ downstream sequence, was PCR amplified with high-fidelity DNA polymerase with gene-specific primers (5′-GGTTGACGAGTCGTTTTCTAAGTG-3′ and 5′-GGGTTTTAGGTTTAGCAGCTGTTA-3′), confirmed by sequencing, and cloned into the binary vector pBI101 (BD Biosciences Clontech). The construct was introduced into the fra8 mutant by the Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated transformation (CITATION). Transgenic plants were selected on kanamycin and grown to maturity for analysis of their ability to complement the mutant phenotypes. Total RNA was isolated from leaves, stems, roots, flowers, and seedlings using a Qiagen RNA isolation kit. One microgram of the purified RNA was treated with DNase I to remove any potential genomic DNA contamination and then used for first-strand cDNA synthesis. One-twentieth of the first-strand cDNA was used for PCR amplification of FRA8 with gene-specific primers (5′-AAGGACGGAAGATCCGTATGAAGC-3′ and 5′-TTACAAGAAAGAGTTTGACCTTCT-3′). The primers used for RT-PCR span two introns so that any potential amplification from genomic DNA could be easily identified based on its larger size. No genomic DNA was amplified in the RT-PCR reactions. The PCR was performed for variable cycles to determine the logarithmic phase of amplifications for the samples. The RT-PCR reactions were repeated three times, and identical results were obtained. The expression of a ubiquitin gene was used as an internal control for determining the RT-PCR amplification efficiency among different samples. The tissue-level expression pattern of the FRA8 gene was studied using the GUS reporter gene. To do this, we used the 4.6-kb genomic DNA fragment containing the wild-type FRA8 gene that was used for the complementation study. The GUS reporter gene was inserted in frame right before the stop codon of the FRA8 gene in the binary vector pBI101 to create the FRA8-GUS construct. The construct was transformed into wild-type and fra8 mutant plants by the Agrobacterium-mediated transformation procedure (CITATION). Transgenic plants were selected on kanamycin and used for expression analysis of the GUS reporter gene. Tissues were first immersed in 90% ice-cold acetone for 20 min and then incubated in the GUS staining solution (100 mM sodium phosphate, pH 7.0, 10 mM EDTA, 0.5 mM ferricyanide, 0.5 mM ferrocynide, and 1 mM 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl β-d-glucuronic acid) at 37°C. After cleared in 70% ethanol, the tissues were observed for the GUS staining under a light microscope (CITATION). The wild-type FRA8 cDNA was PCR amplified, confirmed by sequencing, and then fused in frame with the GFP cDNA (ABRC, Columbus, OH; developed by S.J. Davis and R.D. Vierstra). The FRA8-GFP fusion cDNA was cloned downstream of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter in the binary vector pBI121. The FRA8-GFP construct was introduced into Arabidopsis plants by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Transgenic plants were selected on kanamycin, and the T2 progeny were used for GFP localization. The GFP signals from roots of 3-d-old transgenic seedlings were viewed under a Leica TCs SP2 spectral confocal microscope (Leica Microsystems). Images were saved and processed with Adobe Photoshop version 7.0. To determine the exact subcellular location of FRA8, the FRA8 cDNA was fused in frame with an ECFP and ligated between the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and the nopaline synthase terminator in a high copy vector. The FRA8-ECFP expression construct together with another expression construct containing the Golgi-localized MUR4 tagged with an EYFP were cotransfected into carrot (Daucus carota) protoplasts according to CITATION. The transfected protoplasts were incubated in darkness for 20 h before examination under a Leica TCs SP2 spectral confocal microscope. Images from single optical sections were collected and processed with Adobe Photoshop version 7.0. The full-length FRA8 cDNA was PCR amplified using high-fidelity DNA polymerase from cDNAs synthesized from wild-type stems. The FRA8 cDNA was confirmed by sequencing and ligated in frame into the yeast expression vector pYES2/NT, which is tagged with six histidines and the Xpress epitope (DLYDDDDK) at the N terminus (Invitrogen). The construct was transformed into the yeast strain INVSc1 (Invitrogen). The expression of recombinant FRA8 protein was induced in the presence of 2% galactose for 24 h. After induction, yeast cells were broken using glass beads in the extraction buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 0.5 mM PMSF, and 1% Triton X-100). After centrifugation at 12,000 rpm for 20 min, the protein extracts were separated on a 12.5% SDS gel and transferred onto a nitrocellulose membrane. The recombinant FRA8 protein was detected by incubation with a monoclonal antibody against the Xpress epitope (Invitrogen) and horseradish peroxidase–conjugated secondary antibodies. The recombinant FRA8 protein with the expected molecular mass was confirmed to be expressed in yeast cells. Yeast protein extract with expression of recombinant FRA8 protein was assayed for the glucuronyltransferase activity according to CITATION. The control used was protein extract with expression of β-galactosidase prepared under the same conditions. The protein extract (100 μg) was mixed with the reaction solution in a total volume of 100 μL. The reaction solution contains 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 10 mM MnCl2, 0.1 μCi UDP-D-[U-14C]glucuronic acid (American Radiolabeled Chemicals) and xylan oligomers (ranging from 5 to 100 xylose residues) prepared from xylanase digestion of larchwood xylan and 4-O-methyl glucuronoxylan (Sigma-Aldrich). After incubation at 25°C for 4 h, the reaction product was precipitated with 70% ethanol, and the incorporation of radioactivity into 70% ethanol-insoluble materials was determined by counting in a scintillation counter. Inflorescence stems of 10-week-old plants were collected for cell wall isolation. Stems were ground into fine powder in liquid nitrogen with a mortar and pestle, homogenized with a polytron, and extracted in 70% ethanol at 70°C. The resulting cell wall residues were dried in a vacuum oven at 60°C and used for analysis of total sugar composition. Cell wall sugars (as alditol acetates) were determined following the procedure described by CITATION. Briefly, cell walls were incubated with 70% sulfuric acid at 37°C for 60 min followed by the addition of inositol as the internal standard and dilution with water to 2 N sulfuric acid. After heating for 120 min at 100°C, the solution was cooled and treated with 25% ammonium solution. After reduction with sodium borohydride in dimethyl sulfoxide, the solution was heated for 90 min at 40°C, followed by sequential treatment with glacial acetic acid, acetic anhydride, 1-methylimidazole, dichloromethane, and water. The organic layer containing the alditol acetates of the hydrolyzed cell wall sugars was washed three times with water, and sugars were analyzed on an Agilent 6890N gas–liquid chromatograph) equipped with a 30 m × 0.25 mm (i.d.) silica capillary column DB 225 (Alltech Associates). All samples were run in triplicate. AIR was prepared as described previously (CITATION). In brief, frozen mature inflorescence stems of 10-week-old fra8 and wild-type Arabidopsis plants were ground into fine power under liquid nitrogen. The ground material was suspended in 80% (v/v) ethanol and further disrupted using a Polytron homogenizer. The AIR was collected on nylon mesh and washed with 80% (v/v) ethanol and then absolute ethanol. The washed AIR was suspended in methanol:chloroform (1:1, v/v), stirred for 1 h at room temperature, collected by filtration through glass-fiber filter (GF/A; Whatman), washed with acetone, and air dried. The AIR preparations were sequentially extracted with enzymes and chemical agents that disrupt the cell wall to isolate polysaccharide fractions as described below. AIR preparations from wild-type and fra8 stems were suspended in 50 mM NaOAc buffer, pH 5.0 (10 mg/mL), containing 0.01% (w/v) thimerosal and incubated with endo-polygalacturonase (20 units) from Aspergillus niger (provided by Carl Bergmann, Complex Carbohydrate Research Center) and pectin methylesterase (20 units) from A. oryzae (Novozymes). The suspensions were incubated at 24°C for 24 h in a shaking incubator and then filtered, and the solid residues were subjected to a second incubation under the same conditions. For each plant source, the filtrates were combined and labeled the EPG and PME soluble fractions. Aliquots of the EPG and PME soluble fractions were incubated with 1 M HCl solution for 1 h at 25°C, conditions which cleave the RGII dimer to form RGII monomer. The resulting changes in molecular weight were monitored by size-exclusion chromatography on a Superdex-75 HR10/30 column (Amersham Biosciences) using refractive index detection. Samples of the original fraction without acid treatment were used as controls. The partial depectinated AIR were suspended in 20 mM NaOAc buffer, pH 5, containing 0.01% (w/v) thimerosal and incubated with XEG (supplied by Novozymes and purified as described by CITATION). The incubation was performed at 37°C for 24 h in a shaking incubator. The suspension was passed through a glass-fiber filter, and the solid residues were treated a second time with XEG. Three volumes of 95% ethanol were added to the filtrates, and the resulting precipitate was removed by centrifugation (10 min at 3000g). The supernatant containing the oligosaccharides was concentrated by rotary evaporation to remove ethanol and desalted on Sephadex G-25. Xyloglucan oligosaccharides were detected in the G-25 eluant by the anthrone assay for hexoses (CITATION). The salt-free fractions were pooled and lyophilized. The resulting purified xyloglucan oligosaccharides were analyzed by MALDI-TOF MS. The structural features of the oligosaccharides were determined by analysis of diagnostic resonances in their one-dimensional 1H-NMR spectra (http://www.ccrc.uga.edu/xgdb.html). The remaining insoluble residues after XEG treatment were suspended in 1 N KOH containing 1% (w/v) NaBH4 and stirred at room temperature for 24 h. The suspensions were passed through a glass-fiber filter, and the insoluble residues were collected and suspended in 4 N KOH containing 1% (w/v) NaBH4. The suspensions were stirred at room temperature for 24 h and then filtered. The 1 and 4 N KOH extracts were chilled in an ice bath, acidified, pH 5, with glacial acetic acid, extensively dialyzed (3500 Mr cutoff tubing; Spectrum Laboratories) against running deionized water, and lyophilized. Uronic acids in the cell walls were activated with N-cyclohexyl-N′-(2-morpholinoethyl)carbodiimide methyl-p-toluenesulfonate powder and reduced with NaBD4 to their respective 6,6-didueterio sugars (CITATION; as modified by CITATION). Uronosyl-reduced wall materials (1 to 2 mg) were converted into alditol acetates as described previously (CITATION). The glycosyl-residue composition was determined by gas chromatography–electron impact mass spectrometry. The proportion of 6,6-dideuteriogalactosyl was calculated using ion abundance ratios at m/z 187/189, 217/219, and 289/291 according to the equation described by CITATION. The ion abundances of interfering isotopomers (at M+2 D) were determined empirically with nondeuterated samples and subtracted. Total monosaccharide abundances were quantified by GC-FID. The 4-O-methyl glucuronic acid was reduced to 4-O-methyl glucose that was quantified using 3-O-methyl glucose (Calbiochem) as standard that has the identical molar-response factor (CITATION). Samples (2 to 4 mg) of the residues obtained after KOH treatment and uronosyl reduction were suspended at room temperature for 3 h in concentrated H2SO4 containing 1 μmol of myo-inositol as internal standard. After dilution to 1 M H2SO4 by addition of water, the reaction was heated to 120°C for 1 h. The sample was cooled, neutralized with BaCO3, centrifuged, filtered through glass-fiber filter (GF/A; Whatman), and dried under a stream of air. Similar samples (1 to 2 mg) were hydrolyzed with 1 mL of 2 M TFA containing 1 μmol of myo-inositol as internal standard at 120°C for 1.5 h. The materials released in both hydrolysis were converted to alditol acetates and analyzed as described above. The 1 and 4 N KOH fractions were incubated with a β-endoxylanase from Trichoderma viride (catalog number 70502; Megazyme) at 37°C for 24 h in a shaking incubator. The digested products were desalted and separated by size-exclusion chromatography on a Sephadex G-25 column (Sigma-Aldrich). Carbohydrate in the eluant was monitored by the phenol-sulfuric assay (CITATION). Fractions containing the oligosaccharides were pooled and lyophilized. Xylan oligosaccharides obtained from endo-β-xylanase digestion were analyzed by MALDI-TOF MS using a Hewlett-Packard LDI 1700 XP spectrometer operated in the positive-ion mode with an accelerating voltage of 30 kV, an extractor voltage of 9 kV, and a source pressure of ∼8 × 10−7 torr. The matrix was prepared by mixing (1:1 v/v) 2,5-dihydroxbenzoic acid (0.2 M) and 1-hydroxyisoquinoline (0.06 M), both in 50% aqueous MeCN. The typical spectra shown represent the sums of 200 such laser shots. Purified xylan oligosaccharides were dissolved in D2O (0.6 mL, 99.9%; Cambridge Isotope Laboratories) and transferred to a 5-mm NMR tube. NMR spectra were recorded at 298 K with an Inova-600 MHz NMR spectrometer. Chemical shifts were measured relative to internal acetone at δ 2.225. Two-dimensional gCOSY, HSQC, and HMBC spectra (CITATION) were recorded using standard pulse sequences provided by Varian. Sequence data for the sequences shown in Figure 5 can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under the following accession numbers: FRA8 (DQ182567 and DQ182568), At5g22940 (BT011629), At1g27440 (BT022053), At5g61840 (AY054180), NpGUT1 (AB080676), and MUR3 (AY195743).
