!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis thaliana protein nitric oxide synthase1 (NOS1) is needed for nitric oxide (NO) synthesis and signaling during defense responses, hormonal signaling, and flowering. The cellular localization of NOS1 was examined because it is predicted to be a mitochondrial protein. NOS1–green fluorescent protein fusions were localized by confocal microscopy to mitochondria in roots. Isolated mitochondria from leaves of wild-type plants supported Arg-stimulated NO synthesis that could be inhibited by NOS inhibitors and quenched by a NO scavenger; this NOS activity is absent in mitochondria isolated from nos1 mutant plants. Because mitochondria are a source of reactive oxygen species (ROS), which participate in senescence and programmed cell death, these parameters were examined in the nos1 mutant. Dark-induced senescence of detached leaves and intact plants progressed more rapidly in the mutant compared with the wild type. Hydrogen peroxide, superoxide anion, oxidized lipid, and oxidized protein levels were all higher in the mutant. These results demonstrate that NOS1 is a mitochondrial NOS that reduces ROS levels, mitigates oxidative damage, and acts as an antisenescence agent.
!~RES~! Computational analysis of the NOS1 protein sequence revealed that NOS1 has a high probability of being targeted to the mitochondria (MitoProtII, 95%; PSORT, 80% [in matrix]; TargetP, 78%). To test this prediction, transgenic Arabidopsis plants were generated that carried a green fluorescent protein (GFP) reporter fused in frame to the C terminus of the NOS1 coding region driven by a 35S promoter. Seedlings (the T2 generation) were grown vertically on agarose plates, and then roots of 5-d-old transgenic plants were examined by confocal microscopy for GFP expression. Strong GFP fluorescence was observed in a punctate pattern in the mature part of roots (Figure 1A) and in root hairs (Figure 1B), indicating that the NOS1-GFP fusion protein was localized to an organelle. To determine whether these sites of GFP accumulation are mitochondria, the pattern of GFP fluorescence was compared with that from MitoTracker Red, a mitochondria-specific stain (CITATION). Fluorescence signals from NOS1-GFP (Figure 1C) colocalized with those from MitoTracker in root hairs (Figures 1D and 1E). These results indicate that NOS1 is targeted to the mitochondria. [[FIGURE]] These findings led us to test the role of NOS1 in Arg-dependent NO synthesis in mitochondria. The NO-reactive dye 4-amino-5-methylamino-2′,7′-difluorofluorescein diacetate (DAF-FM DA) was used to detect NO production by mitochondria. A similar approach has been used in animal cells using the related DAF dye 4,5-diaminofluorescein diacetate (CITATION, CITATION). In intact mammalian cells, part of the overall NO-dependent fluorescence colocalized with a subpopulation of mitochondria that stained with MitoTracker Red. In our study, NO production was assayed in isolated mitochondria from leaves of wild-type and nos1 mutant plants. The mitochondrial preparation showed a punctate pattern of DAF-FM fluorescence without the addition of any substrate (Figure 2A). When simultaneously stained with MitoTracker, the majority of strong DAF-FM signals could be seen to overlap with the MitoTracker signal (Figures 2A to 2C), indicating that most of the strong DAF-FM fluorescence could be assigned to mitochondria. Next, the effect of the substrate Arg and various inhibitors on NO synthesis was examined. Preincubating the mitochondrial preparation with 2.5 mM Arg significantly increased the level of DAF-FM fluorescence (Figures 2D and 2E). This strong fluorescence overlapped with MitoTracker fluorescence, indicating that the DAF-FM fluorescence was from mitochondria (data not shown). Increased DAF-FM fluorescence was not observed with 2.5 mM citrulline (Figure 2F) and was severely inhibited by 500 μM 2-4-carboxyphenyl-4,4,5,5-tetramethyl-imidazoline-1-oxyl-3-oxide (cPTIO) (Figure 2G), a NO scavenger, and by 5 mM l-NAME (Figure 2H) or l-NMMA (data not shown), two mammalian NOS inhibitors. The amount of fluorescence was quantified and is shown in Figure 2M. These results indicate that mitochondria purified from Arabidopsis leaves support Arg-dependent NO synthesis. [[FIGURE]] These experiments allowed us to determine whether NOS1 is required for NO synthesis in mitochondria. Arg-stimulated NO synthesis was examined in mitochondria prepared from nos1 mutant plants. The results showed that Arg has little effect on DAF-FM fluorescence in nos1 mitochondria compared with the untreated control (Figures 2I to 2K). The level of fluorescence for nos1 mitochondria in the presence or absence of Arg is approximately the same as for wild-type mitochondria in the absence of Arg (Figure 2A). In addition, the MitoTracker fluorescence from nos1 mitochondria (Figure 2K) was approximately the same as for wild-type mitochondria (Figure 2B), indicating that both preparations had an equivalent concentration of intact mitochondria. We conclude that NOS1 is a mtNOS required for Arg-dependent NO production in mitochondria of plant cells. Leaf senescence is a developmentally controlled, degenerative process induced by exogenous signals such as light and water deficits and regulated by endogenous factors such as ethylene and cytokinin (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). NO has been implicated as an antisenescence signal in that NO treatments extend the postharvest life of fruits and vegetables (CITATION) and reverse the loss of protein in abscisic acid–, methyl jasmonate–, and H2O2-treated rice (Oryza sativa) (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). Also, NO levels are downregulated during the natural senescence of pea (Pisum sativum) leaves (CITATION) and are negatively correlated with ethylene levels (CITATION; CITATION). We investigated the role of NOS1 in leaf senescence. Senescence was induced by dark treatment of detached leaves, a procedure that is commonly used to artificially induce senescence (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Under these conditions, nos1 mutant leaves senesce more rapidly than do wild-type leaves. Individual leaves from wild-type plants became pale green after 3 to 4 d of dark treatment, whereas leaves from the nos1 mutant showed severe yellowing and cell death (Figure 3A). Measurements of chlorophyll content showed that chlorophyll was lost more quickly in nos1 mutant leaves, diminishing by 74% after 3 d and by 91% after 4 d, whereas wild-type leaves lost 41 and 55% of their chlorophyll after 3 and 4 d, respectively (Figure 3B). Treatment of the nos1 mutant leaves with the NO donor sodium nitroprusside (SNP) slowed dark-induced senescence and chlorophyll loss (leaves retained 43% of chlorophyll with SNP treatment compared with 9% without treatment after 4 d) (Figures 3A and 3B). Examination of cell viability showed that cell death was significantly higher in the nos1 mutant as measured by Evans blue staining (Figure 3C). Evans blue measures cell death for an entire leaf. Trypan blue staining also showed higher rates of cell death in nos1, occurring as isolated dead cells in the mutant after 4 d of dark treatment (Figure 3A). These results indicate that NOS1 protects plants from dark-induced senescence and that the accelerated senescence of nos1 leaves results from NO deficiency, because exogenous addition of NO can reverse the phenotype. [[FIGURE]] We next examined senescence of intact plants. Dark-induced leaf senescence occurs more slowly in intact Arabidopsis plants relative to detached leaves (CITATION). Upon dark treatment for 4 d, no increase in yellowing was observed in both wild-type and mutant plants, although leaves began to lose pigment (Figure 4A). After dark treatment for 5 d, some older leaves of the mutant plants showed increased yellowing and collapse of leaf structure, whereas wild-type plants were still pale green with no visible yellowing (Figure 4A). At day 6, almost all of the older leaves were yellow and collapsed in the mutant, whereas only some of the older wild-type leaves showed yellowing and collapse. When chlorophyll levels were examined, mutant plants showed a more rapid loss of chlorophyll than wild-type plants, especially on days 4 and 5 (Figure 4B). In leaves from the mutant, chlorophyll levels decreased by 37% on day 4 and by 66% on day 5, whereas the levels in wild-type leaves were reduced by only 14% on day 4 and by 36% on day 5. After 6 d of dark treatment, wild-type and mutant plants were returned to light conditions (16 h of light, 8 h of dark) for 8 d. Approximately 40% of wild-type plants recovered, whereas only 5% of the mutants survived (Figures 4A and 4C). These results indicate that NOS1 affects senescence and dark recovery rates of both detached and attached leaves. They also provide genetic evidence that NO is an endogenous regulator of plant leaf senescence. [[FIGURE]] Senescence involves ROS and oxidative reactions that result in increases in lipid peroxidation (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). NO is known to interact with ROS, especially during PCD, affecting the extent of ROS accumulation and cell death (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION, CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). In cell culture and during hypersensitive responses, NO works synergistically with H2O2 to induce cell death (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). During senescence, however, NO appears to work as an antioxidant and slows degeneration. In rice, application of NO donors counteracts abscisic acid– and methyl jasmonate–induced leaf senescence and reduces H2O2 accumulation (CITATION, CITATION). To determine what effect NOS1 has on ROS accumulation, young seedlings and detached leaves of wild-type and nos1 plants were examined. Endogenous H2O2 and O2− levels were monitored with 3,3′-diaminobenzidine and nitroblue tetrazolium staining, respectively. We also examined H2O2 levels during dark-induced senescence in leaves of wild-type and mutant plants. Basal H2O2 levels were higher in young nos1 seedlings compared with wild-type seedlings when grown in peat soil under long-day conditions (Figure 5A). The H2O2 accumulated most intensely at the outer perimeter of older leaves. Likewise, higher levels of H2O2 were observed in detached leaves harvested from 3-week-old nos1 plants (Figures 5B and 5C, day 0). When leaves were dark-treated to induce senescence, H2O2 accumulated more rapidly in nos1 mutant leaves compared with wild-type leaves (Figures 5B and 5C). O2− levels were also higher in detached leaves from mutant plants compared with wild-type leaves at day 0, but, in contrast with H2O2, no distinct accumulation of O2− was found in wild-type and nos1 leaves during dark-induced senescence (Figure 5D). These results indicate that NOS1 suppresses H2O2 and O2− accumulation in leaves of young plants and H2O2 accumulation during dark-induced senescence. [[FIGURE]] The higher levels of ROS in mutant plants led us to examine oxidative damage in the form of protein and lipid oxidation. Total soluble proteins from leaves were analyzed by SDS-PAGE. As a control, the protein gels were stained with Coomassie blue, and they showed that proteins appeared more degraded in the nos1 mutant (Figure 6A, day 0). After 3 d of dark treatment, protein degradation in the mutant was even more apparent (Figure 6A). This loss of intact protein in the mutant corresponded to the maximal H2O2 accumulation at day 3 of dark treatment (Figure 5C). We then examined the extent of protein oxidation by measuring carbonylation levels, a marker of protein oxidation (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The nos1 mutant leaves had much higher levels of oxidized proteins than did wild-type leaves before dark treatment (Figure 6B, day 0). After dark treatment, levels of oxidized protein in the wild type increased slightly after 1 d, then decreased to undetectable levels at day 3 (Figure 6B). In nos1, levels of oxidized protein decreased dramatically after 1 d of dark treatment, then disappeared by day 3 (Figure 6B). [[FIGURE]] Measurements of lipid peroxidation (malondialdehyde [MDA] levels) revealed that the nos1 mutant had a higher level of MDA than the wild type before dark treatment (Figure 7, day 0). These levels did not increase significantly during the 3 d of dark treatment, whereas the levels of MDA in wild-type leaves were initially lower (56% of that in nos1 at day 0) and increased somewhat during 3 d of dark treatment but remained lower relative to nos1 (Figure 7). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Sites for computational analysis of the NOS1 protein sequence were as follows: MitoProtII (http://ihg.gsf.de/ihg/mitoprot.html), PSORT (http://psort.ims.u-tokyo.ac.jp/), and TargetP (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/). Wild-type and nos1 mutant plants of Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia were grown in peat soil (Sun Gro Horticulture) with fertilizer (Pete's 20-10-20; McConkey). All plants were grown under a light cycle of 16 h of light and 8 h of dark at 24°C. For plants grown on agarose plates, seeds were surface-sterilized, first in 70% ethanol for 5 min and then in 5% bleach for 15 min, washed with water, and plated on germination medium as described (CITATION). Plates were kept at 4°C for 2 d and then germinated vertically at 24°C under continuous light. NOS1 cDNA (1.7 kb) was amplified by RT-PCR and confirmed by sequencing. The following primers were used in the PCR to create XhoI and SpeI sites: 5′-GAGCTCGAGATGGCGCTACGAACACTC-3′ and 5′-TCGACTAGTCGAAAGTACCATTTGGGTCT-3′. The resulting NOS1 cDNA was cloned into the pGEM-T Easy vector (Promega). p35S-NOS1-GFP reporter constructs were generated by making translational fusions of the 1.7-kb XhoI-SpeI fragment into the XhoI-SpeI sites of p35S-GFP-JFH1 vector. This GFP vector was kindly provided by J.F. Harper (University of Nevada, Reno) (CITATION). In the fusion construct, the stop codon TGA of NOS1 was replaced with CGA followed by CTAGTGATGGFP. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants were produced by vacuum-infiltrating 4-week-old plants in Agrobacterium tumefaciens culture containing the appropriate construct (CITATION). Seeds from treated plants were collected and screened for kanamycin resistance. Transgenic plants identified in this generation were classified as T1 plants. Leaves (50 g) were harvested from 3-week-old seedlings. Mitochondria were isolated according to CITATION. The purified mitochondria were resuspended in wash medium supplemented with 5% (v/v) DMSO, frozen in liquid nitrogen, and stored at −80°C until used. Mitochondria were stained with 500 nM MitoTracker Red 580 (Molecular Probes). Isolated mitochondria (20 μl) were incubated on ice for 30 min with Arg (2.5 mM) alone or with cPTIO (500 nM) or the mammalian NOS inhibitors l-NMMA and l-NAME (5 mM). After incubation, mitochondria were loaded with 15 μM DAF-FM DA in the dark for 20 min at ambient temperature. After this loading period, the mitochondria were pipetted gently onto a glass microscope slide using a 200-μL pipette tip with the last 5 mm removed and then covered with a glass cover slip. Fluorescent signals were detected using a confocal microscope. Emission light was collected at 515 ± 10 nm, and excitation was at 488 ± 10 nm. Signal intensities were quantified using Photoshop (Adobe Systems). Fully extended leaves detached from 3-week-old plants were placed onto 9-mm-diameter Petri dishes with double-layer Whatman filter papers at bottom containing 15 mL of distilled water without (untreated) or with 250 μM SNP. Petri dishes were sealed with Parafilm tape to avoid NO escaping, wrapped with double-layer aluminum foil, and kept at ambient temperature. For intact plant senescence experiments, 3-week-old plants grown in peat soil with 16 h of light and 8 h of dark were transferred from the growth room to a dark room. After 6 d of dark treatment, plants were moved back to the growth room with 16 h of light and 8 h of dark, and surviving plants were counted 8 d later. Chlorophyll was extracted from individual leaves with 80% acetone. Chlorophyll content was determined spectrophotometrically at 663 and 646 nm according to CITATION. Cell death, indicated as loss of plasma membrane integrity, was measured spectrophotometrically by Evans blue staining of detached leaves as described (CITATION; CITATION) with minor modifications. Briefly, detached leaves, completely submerged in a 0.1% (w/v) aqueous solution of Evans blue dye (Sigma-Aldrich), were subjected to two 5-min cycles of vacuum followed by 30 min under vacuum. The leaves were then washed three times with distilled water (15 min each). Dye bound to dead cells was solubilized in 50% (v/v) methanol and 1% (w/v) SDS at 60°C for 30 min and then quantified by absorbance at 600 nm. For 100% cell death, the detached leaves were heated at 100°C for 5 min before staining. Two to three leaves were pooled for each sample. Six samples were analyzed for each data point. This experiment was repeated three times with equivalent results. Cell death was visualized in senescing detached leaves by lactophenol–trypan blue staining followed by destaining in saturated chloral hydrate as described (CITATION). Production of H2O2 in young seedlings and detached leaves was measured by staining plants with 3,3′-diaminobenzidine as described (CITATION) and then boiling in 96% ethanol for 10 min. Detection of O2− with nitroblue tetrazolium was performed essentially according to CITATION and CITATION. Frozen leaves (0.2 g) were ground to a powder under liquid nitrogen, and H2O2 was extracted from leaves according to the method described previously (CITATION). H2O2 concentration was measured with an Amplex red H2O2/peroxidase assay kit (Molecular Probes). Six samples were analyzed and averaged for each data point. Protein was extracted from detached leaves of Arabidopsis according to CITATION. The protein concentration was determined with the Bio-Rad protein assay kit. Oxidized proteins were detected by measuring carbonyl content in extracted proteins from detached leaves according to CITATION. 2,4-D–treated protein samples (10 μg of protein per lane) were resolved by SDS-PAGE (10% acrylamide gels). After electrotransfer of the proteins to polyvinylidene difluoride membranes, dinitrophenylhydrazine moieties were detected with mouse anti-dinitrophenyl primary antibodies (dilution, 1:2500 [v/v]; Sigma-Aldrich) and peroxidase-labeled anti-mouse antibody (dilution, 1:3000 [v/v]; Amersham Biosciences). Immunosignal was developed using enhanced chemiluminescence detection reagents (Amersham Biosciences). The extent of lipid peroxidation in leaves was estimated by measuring the amount of MDA, a decomposition product of the oxidation of polyunsaturated fatty acids, as described (CITATION). Briefly, one adult leaf was ground in 1 mL of chilled reagent (0.25% [w/v] thiobarbituric acid in 10% [w/v] trichloroacetic acid). After incubation at 90°C for 20 min, the extracts were cooled at room temperature and centrifuged at 12,000g for 15 min. The absorbance of the supernatant was measured at 532 nm, subtracting the value for nonspecific absorption at 600 nm. The Arabidopsis Genome Initiative locus identifier for Arabidopsis NOS1 is At3g47450.
