!~ABS~! The cell wall-associated receptor kinase (WAK) and WAK-like kinase (WAKL) gene family members are good candidates for physical linkers that signal between the cell wall and the cytoplasmic compartment. Previous studies have suggested that while some WAK/WAKL members play a role in bacterial pathogen and heavy-metal aluminum responses, others are involved in cell elongation and plant development. Here, we report a functional role for the WAKL4 gene in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) mineral responses. Confocal microscopic studies localized WAKL4-green fluorescent protein fusion proteins on the cell surfaces suggesting that, like other WAK/WAKL proteins, WAKL4 protein is associated with the cell wall. Histochemical analyses of the WAKL4 promoter fused with the β-glucuronidase reporter gene have shown that WAKL4 expression is induced by Na+, K+, Cu2+, Ni2+, and Zn2+. A transgenic line with a T-DNA insertion at 40-bp upstream of the WAKL4 start codon was characterized. While the T-DNA insertion had little effect on the WAKL4 transcript levels under normal growth conditions, it significantly altered the expression patterns of WAKL4 under various conditions of mineral nutrients. Semiquantitative and quantitative reverse transcription-PCR analyses showed that the promoter impairment abolished WAKL4-induced expression by Na+, K+, Cu2+, and Zn2+, but not by Ni2+. Whereas the WAKL4 promoter impairment resulted in hypersensitivity to K+, Na+, Cu2+, and Zn2+, it conferred a better tolerance to toxic levels of the Ni2+ heavy metal. WAKL4 was required for the up-regulation of zinc transporter genes during zinc deficiency, and the WAKL4 T-DNA insertion resulted in a reduction of Zn2+ accumulation in shoots. A WAKL4-green fluorescent protein fusion gene driven by either the WAKL4 native promoter or the 35S constitutive promoter complemented the phenotypes. Our results suggest versatile roles for WAKL4 in Arabidopsis mineral nutrition responses.
!~RES~! Previous cellular and biochemical studies have shown that several WAK/WAKL members are localized on the cell surface and tightly associated with the cell wall (CITATION; CITATION). The predicted structural features for WAKL4 protein suggest it may also be associated with the cell wall. To test this possibility, we generated transgenic plants that express WAKL4-green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion proteins. As shown in Figure 1, protein gel-blot analysis detected high levels of the GFP fusion proteins in the transgenic plants (Fig. 1H). Confocal microscopic analyses of the root cells of the transgenic plants confirmed that GFP fluorescence is localized in the cell surface region overlapping the cell wall and the plasma membrane (Fig. 1A). Closer examination of the root cell expressing WAKL4-GFP revealed that the fusion proteins are forming patch-like structures on the cell surface (Fig. 1G). To further verify the nature of the cell wall association of the WAKL4-GFP proteins, roots cells were plasmolyzed in a 0.5 m NaCl solution (Fig. 1D) and the GFP fluorescence was examined. While the majority of the green fluorescence remained in the cell wall region, a small amount migrated together to the plasma membrane. To biochemically confirm the nature of WAKL4-GFP cell wall association, soluble and insoluble proteins were fractionated from the WAKL4-GFP transgenic plants and analyzed by protein gel blotting using a GFP antibody. WAKL4-GFP, shown as a band of 102 kD, was highly enriched in the insoluble pellet (Fig. 1H). Extraction of WAKL4-GFP from the insoluble fraction, like that of WAK1 (CITATION), required boiling in 50 mm dithiothreitol (DTT) and 4% (w/v) SDS. BRI1-GFP, a known plasma membrane protein, was used as a control (CITATION). As expected, BRI1-GFP, shown as a band of 158 kD, was highly enriched in the soluble protein fraction (Fig. 1H). These results suggest WAKL4, like other studied WAK/WAKL members, is a plasma membrane RLK tightly associated with the cell wall. [[FIGURE]] Prior analyses showed WAKL4 was slightly expressed in the leaf hydathode, stipule, hypocotyl-root junction, and lateral root initiation site (CITATION). To gain further insight into the expression profile of the WAKL4 gene in responding to environmental stresses, transgenic plants carrying a construct of the WAKL4 promoter fused to the β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene were analyzed. Seedlings were grown in either 0.1× Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium, as a control, or 0.1× MS medium supplemented with various additional mineral nutrients. As shown in Figure 2, WAKL4::GUS activities strongly responded to elevated levels of Na+, K+, Cu2+, Ni2+, and Zn2+. Under the 0.1× MS growth condition, the WAKL4 promoter is slightly active in the vasculature of the leaf petiole and hypocotyl (Fig. 2A, a–d) and little GUS activity was observed in roots (Fig. 2A, e–g). WAKL4::GUS activity in the vasculature was greatly enhanced by all five added mineral nutrients. High levels of GUS activity were observed in vascular tissues of seedlings grown in media with 100 mm NaCl (Fig. 2B, a and c), 40 μm NiSO4 (Fig. 2E, a, c, and d), and 150 μm ZnSO4 (Fig. 2F, a, c, and d). In particular, heavy GUS staining was observed in the vascular tissues of hypocotyls in seedlings grown in media with either nickel or zinc (Fig. 2E, d, and F, d). WAKL4 promoter activity was also greatly induced in hypocotyl-root junctions by all five added mineral nutrients (Fig. 2, B–F, e). In addition, all nutrients, but copper, significantly enhanced WAKL4::GUS activity at the lateral root initiation sites (Fig. 2, B–F, f). Similar to that in the hypocotyls (Fig. 2E, d, and F, d), nickel or zinc treatment resulted in a higher GUS expression in the vasculature of the roots (Fig. 2E, f, and F, f). [[FIGURE]] A comprehensive analysis of publicly available microarray data was carried out. WAKL4 (At1g16150) expression profiles were obtained through GENEVESTIGATOR (CITATION) by analyzing data from experiments of more than 1,800 microarray chips and were compared to our GUS expression results. WAKL4 expression patterns in different organs and under various biotic and abiotic stresses revealed by the microarray data were consistent with our GUS results (Fig. 1; Supplemental Fig. 3). Microarray results confirmed that the highest expression of WAKL4 was found in roots and that salt (NaCl) stress significantly induced WAKL4 expression. As much as a 5-fold increase of the WAKL4 transcript was found in salt-treated seedlings (Supplemental Fig. 3). Consistent with our observations, the salt-induced expression seems to be related to elevated minerals and not to general water deprivation as various drought and osmotic stress conditions failed to induce WAKL4 expression (Supplemental Fig. 3). To genetically analyze the functions of WAKL4, we attempted to isolate WAKL4 knockout mutants from a number of available collections of T-DNA transgenic plants. Using a primer 1,490-bp upstream of WAKL4 and a T-DNA left-border primer, a PCR screening in a DNA superpool (Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center [ABRC] stock no. CS6503) identified a line with a T-DNA inserted in the promoter region proximal to the beginning of the WAKL4 gene. Sequencing analysis confirmed a T-DNA insertion at 40-bp upstream of the ATG start codon, as illustrated in Figure 3A. This insertional line is hereafter designated as wakl4-1. Genomic DNA gel-blot and genetic segregation analyses suggested that the obtained line carried a homozygous mutation for WAKL4. DNA isolated from either the wild type (Wassilewskija [Ws]) or the wakl4-1 were digested with EcoRI and fractionated. A WAKL4-specific fragment used to probe the genomic DNA blot identified one fragment (5.6 kb) in the wild-type lane and two fragments (4.7 and 5.7 kb) in the wakl4-1 lane (Fig. 3B), suggesting that the T-DNA insertion resulted in homozygous WAKL4 interruption. WAKL4 is part of the WAKL1-7 gene cluster (CITATION). Specific reverse transcription (RT)-PCR analyses of WAKL1-7 showed that the T-DNA insertion had little effect on the expression of other clustered WAKL genes (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] To understand the regulatory mechanisms of WAKL4 gene expression and to verify the functional roles for WAKL4 protein, two transformation constructs, WAKL4::WAKL4-GFP and 35S::WAKL4-GFP, were generated and utilized to transform wakl4-1 plants. More than 30 independent transgenic lines were obtained for each construct and representative lines were used for detailed molecular characterizations. Seeds for wild-type, wakl4-1, WAKL4::WAKL4-GFP, and 35S::WAKL4-GFP transgenic plants were plated in either 0.1× MS medium or 0.1× MS medium supplemented with 50 mm NaCl, 50 mm KCl, 150 μm ZnSO4, 18 μm CuSO4, and 26 μm NiSO4, respectively. Fourteen-day-old seedlings were harvested for total RNA extraction and, subsequently, for RT-PCR analyses. A pair of gene-specific primers was designed in a unique region spanning the two introns of the WAKL4 gene and their WAKL4 specificity was confirmed by sequencing their RT-PCR products (CITATION). As shown in Figure 4, consistent with our previously established GUS expression profile (Fig. 2), WAKL4 expression was significantly up-regulated by 50 mm NaCl, 50 mm KCl, and 150 μm ZnSO4. A constitutive actin gene was used to normalize the WAKL4 transcript levels in each sample and the WAKL4 transcript changes were calculated based on that of the wild type grown on MS medium (designated as 1; Fig. 4, bottom). Compared to the wild-type control, both the 35S::WAKL4-GFP and the WAKL4::WAKL4-GFP transgenic plants gave more than 9-fold higher WAKL4 transcripts. While the WAKL4 transcript level in wakl4-1 slightly dropped in MS medium, it was significantly reduced in medium containing either 50 mm NaCl or 50 mm KCl. [[FIGURE]] In contrast to other nutrients, nickel has an opposite effect on WAKL4 expression in wakl4-1. RT-PCR analysis detected a noticeable increase of the WAKL4 transcript in wakl4-1 grown in MS medium with nickel (Fig. 4). This observation was confirmed by several independently repeated RT-PCR experiments. To further verify this unexpected result, quantitative real-time RT-PCR analyses were used to determine WAKL4 transcript abundance in samples grown in MS medium with nickel. A constitutive actin gene was included in the same tube real-time RT-PCR assay for normalization purposes and changes of the WAKL4 transcript abundance were calculated based on the level of that in the wild type (Ws) as 1. As shown in Figure 5, the WAKL4 transcript level in the wakl4-1 mutant grown in the presence of nickel showed a 100% increase when compared to that in the wild type. It also confirmed high levels of WAKL4 transcripts of as much as a 20-fold increase in the 35S overexpression lines (OX; Fig. 5), consistent with the results from the previous semiquantitative RT-PCR experiment (Fig. 4). As a positive control, Na+ was shown to notably enhance WAKL4 transcript abundance in the wild type (Fig. 5). [[FIGURE]] The results of WAKL4 expression studies strongly suggest a functional role for WAKL4 in mineral nutrient responses. We initially observed that wakl4-1 seedlings consistently showed retarded root growth when grown in full- or one-half-strength MS nutrients. As shown in Figure 6, while little root length differences between the wild type and wakl4-1 were observed on 0.1× MS medium, wakl4-1 root lengths on 0.5× MS were reduced by more than 30% as compared to the wild type.The root length reduction phenotype was complemented when a wild-type copy of the WAKL4 gene in the form of either WAKL4::WAKL4-GFP (complementation line [Compl]) or 35S::WAKL4-GFP (OX) was introduced back into the wakl4-1 plants (Fig. 6). [[FIGURE]] To further determine which mineral nutrient in MS medium caused wakl4-1 root sensitivity, various nutrients were added into 0.1× MS medium and tested for wakl4-1 growth. As shown in Figure 7, both 50 mm KCl and 50 mm NaCl had a dramatic effect on wakl4-1 root growth. Root lengths of wakl4-1 seedlings were reduced by more than 50% by both salts. Both Compl and OX showed restoration of root growth, although the latter was less effective (Fig. 7). [[FIGURE]] Seedlings of wakl4-1 were also tested on 0.1× MS medium supplemented with either 150 μm ZnSO4 or 18 μm CuSO4. As shown in Figure 8, both Zn2+ and Cu2+ significantly affected root lengths of wakl4-1 seedlings. Zn2+ and Cu2+ reduced wakl4-1 root length by more than 50% and 30%, respectively (Fig. 8). The root length reductions were recovered in both the Compl and the OX lines (Fig. 8). [[FIGURE]] The Arabidopsis zinc transporter (ZIP) genes were known to be regulated by zinc availability (CITATION). To gain further insight into a possible role for WAKL4 in zinc response, we analyzed ZIP expressions in both root and shoot tissues of wild type, wakl4-1, Compl, and OX lines. Seedlings were grown in either 0.1× MS or 0.1× MS medium supplemented with 150 μm ZnSO4 and used for total RNA extraction. Pairs of ZIP gene-specific primers were used for RT-PCR analyses. Figure 9A shows that all four ZIP genes were expressed in roots of the wild-type plant, and their expression responded to Zn2+ deficiency. Little expression of all ZIP genes but ZIP2 was found in roots when the growth medium was supplemented with 150 μm Zn2+ (Fig. 9A). In wild-type shoots, while ZIP1 and ZIP4 were suppressed in the 150 μm Zn2+ medium, ZIP2 was slightly induced under the same condition (Fig. 9). The Zn2+ deficiency-induced expression for all four ZIP genes appeared to be abolished in wakl4-1. When wakl4-1 seedlings were grown on MS medium, transcripts for ZIP1, ZIP3, and ZIP4 became undetectable and the transcript of ZIP2 was dramatically reduced. Transcript levels for all four ZIP genes were completely recovered in both the WAKL4 Compl and the WAKL4 OX line in both roots and shoots (Fig. 9A). [[FIGURE]] Zinc content was measured in wild type, wakl4-1, Compl, and OX lines. Seedlings were grown on 0.1× MS medium supplemented with 150 μm ZnSO4, and their shoots and roots were separated for Zn2+ determination. There was no significant difference in Zn2+ levels in roots of the four samples (Fig. 9B). In contrast, Zn2+ levels were dramatically reduced in wakl4-1 shoots (Fig. 9B). This reduction was fully recovered in both the Compl and OX lines (Fig. 9B). In addition, the OX line contained a higher level of Zn2+ in both shoots and roots (Fig. 9B). On 0.1× MS medium supplemented with 150 μm ZnSO4, wild-type roots accumulated twice the amount of Zn2+ as wild-type shoots (Fig. 9C). The calculated ratios of Zn2+ content in shoots versus in roots of the wild type indicated an average value of 0.5, whereas that of wakl4-1 decreased to about 0.3 (Fig. 9C). These results suggest a likely role for WAKL4 in Zn2+ accumulation in shoots. A slightly increased WAKL4 expression level was detected in wakl4-1 when treated with Ni2+, and a constitutively enhanced WAKL4 expression was observed in the Compl plants (Figs. 4 and 5). To test whether the elevated expression in Ni2+ had any physiological effects on Arabidopsis growth, we plated wild type, wakl4-1, Compl, and OX on media containing various levels of Ni2+. In general, Arabidopsis is considered to be nontolerant to Ni2+ (CITATION; CITATION). As shown in Figure 10, in the wild type, as little as 28 μm of Ni2+ caused a dramatic inhibition of root growth and 36 μm Ni2+ resulted in lethality. In contrast, seedlings of wakl4-1, Compl, and OX gave much better root growth than the wild type (Fig. 10A). Both the wakl4-1 and the Compl plants survived well at 36 μm Ni2+. OX plants consistently showed robust growth at the three Ni2+ concentrations. At 28 μm Ni2+, root lengths of wild-type seedlings were about 50% of that of OX. Increased Ni2+ concentration had a dramatic effect on wild-type root length but not on OX. At 36 μm Ni2+, root lengths of the wild type dropped to less than 20% of that of OX. These results established a good correlation between WAKL4 expression and the Ni2+ tolerance. Measurements of plant Ni2+ content showed no significant differences of Ni2+ levels in either shoot or root among wild-type, wakl4-1, Compl, and OX plants (data not shown), suggesting a possible role of WAKL4 in Ni2+ cellular detoxification rather than Ni2+ transportation or accumulation. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) ecotype Ws and transgenic plants were grown as described before (CITATION). Surface-sterilized seeds were cold treated at 4°C for at least 48 h and plated on petri dishes with various media. Both the full-strength 1× MS medium (CITATION) and different diluted solutions were used for various tests. For mineral tests, different mineral solutions were added to 0.1× MS to generate the required medium. Seedlings were grown vertically on square plates (100 × 100 × 15 mm; Fisher Scientific) containing either 0.1× MS medium alone (control) or 0.1× MS medium supplemented with additional mineral nutrients as indicated. Screening for the WAKL4 T-DNA insertion line was carried out by using publicly available T-DNA pools from the ABRC (Ohio State University). DNA pools of various T-DNA collections were used for PCR-based screening (CITATION). T-DNA insertion in WAKL4 was identified in one subpool (pool no. 58, CS2691) of the superpool (ABRC stock no. CS6502; K. Feldmann T-DNA collection containing 6,300 lines) by using a left-border primer (KF-LB, 5′-GCGCAATATTTACACATAGACACACACAT-3′) and a WAKL4 upstream primer (WAKL3-1300R, 5′-ACAGTGCCTTGACCGCCTTGCCCAAG-3′). A positive WAKL4 T-DNA line was identified by PCR screening individual seedlings in the subpool (CS2691; pool of 100 T-DNA lines). T-DNA localization in the WAKL4 T-DNA line was confirmed by sequencing the PCR products (ABI377; Applied Biosystems) using a sequencing primer (KF-LB102, 5′-GATGCAATCGATATCAGCCAATTTAGAC-3′). Genomic DNA was isolated from the wild type (Ws) and wakl4-1 as described before (CITATION). Isolated DNA was digested by EcoRI before fractionation. A DNA Southern blot was performed as described before (CITATION). A WAKL4-specific probe was generated from the WAKL4 promoter region by using a digoxigenin (DIG) PCR DNA-labeling kit according to the manufacturer's suggested protocol (Roche Diagnostics). Two primers (WAKL4-promotor-500F, 5′-GTGTTGCTGCTACAAAAGTAATAC-3′ and WAKL4-promotor-Bgl2-R 5′-AGATCTTTGTTTCTCAACTCGTCAAGTCGGTCTT-3′) were used to amplify the DIG-labeled WAKL4 probe. DIG signals were detected by using a DIG-labeling detection kit (Roche Diagnostics). The intergenic sequence between the start site of the WAKL4 gene sequence and the end site of the preceding gene was used as the WAKL4. A primer pair was used to clone the WAKL4 promoter (1,159 bp) from genomic DNA using PCR (CITATION): 5′-GTCGACCGTCGTAAATCAGACTTTGCTTTAATA-3′ (Sal1) and 5′-AGATCTTGTTTCTCAACTCGTCAAGTCGGTCTT-3′ (Bgl2). The Sal1 and Bgl2 sites indicated at the end of the primer sequences were the introduced restriction sites used for cloning. The PCR products were inserted into the promoterless GUS transformation vector pBI101.2 (CITATION) and the resulting construct was sequenced for confirmation and introduced into Arabidopsis Columbia (Col-0) wild type via Agrobacterium GV-3101-mediated transformation as described before (CITATION). More than 30 independent homozygous lines were generated from the construct. To assay for GUS activity, eight independent T3-T4 homozygous lines were first germinated and grown on 0.1× MS medium for 10 d. Seedlings were then transferred to a new 0.1× MS medium with or without 100 mm NaCl, 100 mm KCl, 20 μm CuSO4, 150 μm ZnSO4, and 40 μm NiSO4, respectively. Seedlings were grown for 3 d on this new medium until assay. GUS assays were performed as described before (CITATION). Photomicrographs were taken by a Nikon 600 fluorescence microscope (Nikon) and arranged by using Adobe Photoshop version 8.0 (Adobe Systems). The WAKL4-GFP fusion gene was created to complement wakl4-1. Two complementation constructs were generated. The expression of the WAKL4-GFP fusion gene was driven either by the WAKL4 native promoter or by the constitutive 35S promoter. For generating the WAKL4-promoter::WAKL4-GFP construct, the entire WAKL4 genomic fragment, including the WAKL4 promoter, was PCR amplified using two pair of primers (pair one: WAKL4 promotor-Kpn1-F, 5′-TCTCTCGGTACCGATCTGTTCAAGCGGCTTCATGATGAAT-3′ and WAKL4 promotor-Bgl2-R, 5′-AGATCTTTGTTTCTCAACTCGTCAAGTCGGTCTT-3′; and pair two: WAKL4 promotor-Sal1-F, 5′-GTCGACCGTCGTAAATCAGACTTTGCTTTAATA-3′ and WAKL4-Bgl2-R, 5′-TCTCTCAGATCTGCCATGTTCGTAGAGGAACCAGAGGCTC-3′). The introduced restriction sites used for cloning are indicated in the primer names. The PCR products were purified by a PCR purification kit (Qiagen) and ligated to a pGEM T-easy vector (Promega). Positive clones were selected and sequenced to verify sequence accuracy. Fragments of WAKL4-promotor-Kpn1-F/WAKL4-promotor-Bgl2-R (1.8 kb) and WAKL4-promotor-Sal1-F/WAKL4-Bgl2-R (2.9 kb) were dropped off from the pGEM vector by cutting with corresponding restriction enzymes and subsequently ligated into the binary pPZP222-GFP vector (opened by Kpn1 and Bgl2; CITATION). To generate the 35S::WAKL4-GFP construct, a primer pair (WAKL4 coding-Kpn1-F, 5′-TTGAGAAGGTACCATGAAGAAAGAAACTC-3′ and WAKL4-2904R, 5′-TAATCATCACATTCATCTCGAAGA-3′) was used for PCR to generate the first part (215 bp) of the WAKL4 gene from the pPZP222-WAKL4 promoter-WAKL4-GFP construct. pPZP222-WAKL4 promoter-WAKL4-GFP was cut by Xho1 and Bgl2 to get the rest of the WAKL4 gene. The two parts were ligated into the pCHF1-35S-GFP vector cut by Kpn1 and BamH1. Positive clones were identified in Escherichia coli XL-1 blue cells and sequenced for sequence confirmation. The two confirmed transformation constructs were used to transform both wild type (Ws) and wakl4-1 via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation as described before (CITATION). More than 30 independent T1 transformants for each construct were identified on MS plates containing 100 mg/L gentamycin. Homozygous T3/T4 lines were used for various assays. Whole protein extraction and protein gel-blot analysis were essentially performed as described before (CITATION; CITATION). Soluble proteins were prepared using an extraction buffer (25 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 50 mm KCl, 5 mm MgCl2, and 5 mm DTT) supplemented with a mixture of protease inhibitor (protease inhibitor cocktail, P 9599; Sigma). After extensive washing and extraction, the pellet was used for insoluble protein preparation. Insoluble proteins were extracted by boiling the pellet for 10 min in the extraction buffer (50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 6.8, 50 mm DTT, 4% SDS, 10% glycerol, and 0.05% bromphenol blue). The total GFP was detected by using a horseradish peroxidase-conjugated GFP polyclonal antibody (Vector Laboratories; 1:200 dilution) and developed with enhanced chemiluminescence detection reagents (Amersham-Pharmacia Biotech). Ten-day-old seedlings were used for GFP detection. GFP fluorescence was excited by a blue argon laser (10 mW, 488-nm blue excitation) and detected at 515- to 530-nm wavelengths in a Nikon C1 confocal E600FN microscope (Nikon). Whole roots were directly mounted in water and observed with water objectives (20× and 60×). Wild-type (Ws) seedlings were used as negative controls. For plasmolysis, roots were treated in a 500 mm NaCl solution for 5 min before observation. Images were processed and arranged by Adobe Photoshop version 8.0. Total RNA was extracted from various tissues using the RNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen) according to the manufacturer's instructions. RT-PCR analysis was performed on 0.2 μg total RNA by using the One-Step RT-PCR kit (Qiagen). All RNA samples were treated with a ribonuclease-free deoxyribonuclease to eliminate DNA contamination. In addition, all RT-PCR primers were designed to spin introns to assure gene specificity and to differentiate any potential genomic DNA contamination. The following primers were used for RT-PCR analyses of gene expression: ZIP1 (At3G12750.1): ZIP1-cDNA-381F 5′-TGCTGGTTTTGTAGCGATGCTGTCGG-3′, ZIP1-cDNA-880R 5′-CCTCTTTGCTCTCTTTCCTGTAGCC-3′; ZIP2 (At5G59520.1): ZIP2-cDNA-447F 5′-GTTTGTAGCGGCTGGGAGTAATAAC-3′, ZIP2-cDNA-801R 5′-GGAGTAGACGACAGTGAGGAAGAATG-3′; ZIP3 (At2G32270.1): ZIP3-cDNA-478F 5′-TCTAAGAGGGTCAGTGATGGAGAAACC-3′, ZIP3-cDNA-916R 5′-AATCTGCTGCGAGAAGGTCAACCAAAG-3′; ZIP4 (At1G10970.1): ZIP4-cDNA-518F 5′-AAGCCGCTGCTGGTAGTGAAGAGATTGC-3′, ZIP4-cDNA-820R 5′-GGGATAAACCGATGATGATTGAGTGC-3′; WAKL4 (At1G16150): WAKL4-cDNA-810F 5′-AAGATGGCGGGTATGGTTCCGAGAC-3′, WAKL4-cDNA-1140R 5′-AGAACACTCTCATTCGACTGCTCCT-3′; and Actin (At3G46520): Actin-cDNA-200F 5′-AACCAATCGTGTGTGACAATGGT-3′, Actin-cDNA-620R 5′-TACGACCACTGGCGTACAAGGA-3′. For quantitative real-time RT-PCR analyses, purified total RNA was transcribed using a Bio-Rad iScript cDNA synthesis kit (Bio-Rad) according to the manufacturer's recommended protocol. The generated cDNA was then used for a TaqMan-based quantitative real-time PCR assay. TaqMan primers were designed using Primer Express version 2.0 (Applied Biosystems). For WAKL4 gene expression analysis, the following primers were used: WAKL4-274-F (5′-CAATCCTGAATACGTTGAATGGACTA-3′), WAKL4-354R (5′-CAGCTAATGGCAAGCAGAATGA-3′), and WAKL4-TaqMan-301 (5′-AATTGTTCTTG^GAACCACTATCGGCTTCTTG-3′). The WAKL4-TaqMan-301 probe was designed to spin the second intron (position indicated as ^ in the listed sequence) of the WAKL4 gene. The following primers were designed for the Actin2 (ACT2) gene used as an endogenous control: ACT2-F (5′-ATCGGTGGTTCCATTCTTGCT-3′), ACT2-R (5′-GCTTTTTAAGCTTTTGATCTTGAGAG-3′), and ACT2-TaqMan probe (5′-AGCACATTCCAGCAG^ATGTGGATCTCCAA-3′). Similarly, the ACT2-TaqMan probe was designed to spin an intron (position indicated as ^ in the listed sequence) of the ACT2 gene. The WAKL4-TaqMan-301 probe was carboxytetramethylrhodamine labeled and the ACT2-TaqMan probe was carboxyfluorescein labeled (Applied Biosystems). Fluorescence dye reactive oxygen was added in the master PCR mix to normalize pipetting errors. Multiplex real-time PCR assays (mixing WAKL4-TaqMan probe and ACT2-TaqMan probe) were performed in an ABI 7300 real-time PCR system (Applied Biosystems). Relative quantitations of WAKL4 gene expression were calculated using the comparative threshold cycle method. Seedlings of wild-type (Ws), Wakl4-1, WAKL4::WAKL4-GFP, and 35S::WAKL4-GFP transgenic lines were grown on 0.1× MS supplemented with 50 mm NaCl, 50 mm KCl, 18 μm CuSO4, 26 μm NiSO4, and 150 μm ZnSO4, respectively. Fourteen-day-old seedlings were carefully washed in distilled water and their shoots and roots were separated. The harvested tissues were blotted dry by Kimwipes and weighed. Shoot tissues were added in an acid solution (10:1 nitric acid:perchloric acid). For every 1 mg of shoot tissue, 10 μL of acid were added. Tissues were digested in a boiling water bath until all solid material dissolved. The same procedures were used for root tissue digestion, except 20 μL of acid solution were added for each 1 mg of root tissue. Mineral levels were assayed using an atomic absorption spectrometer (ATI Unicam Solaar 929) with various standards. The graphite furnace mode was used for Cu2+, Ni2+, and Zn2+ assays and the flame mode for K+ and Na+ assays.
