!~ABS~! The synthesis of cellulose microfibrils requires the presence of a membrane-bound endo-1,4-β-d-glucanase, KORRIGAN1 (KOR1). Although the exact biochemical role of KOR1 in cellulose synthesis is unknown, we used the protein as a marker to explore the potential involvement of subcellular transport processes in cellulose synthesis. Using immunofluorescence and a green fluorescent protein (GFP)–KOR1 fusion that complemented the phenotype conferred by the kor1-1 mutant, we investigated the distribution of KOR1 in epidermal cells in the root meristem. KOR1 was localized in intracellular compartments corresponding to a heterogeneous population of organelles, which comprised the Golgi apparatus, FM4-64–labeled compartments referred to as early endosomes, and, in the case of GFP-KOR1, the tonoplast. Inhibition of cellulose synthesis by isoxaben promoted a net redistribution of GFP-KOR1 toward a homogeneous population of compartments, distinct from early endosomes, which were concentrated close to the plasma membrane facing the root surface. A redistribution of GFP-KOR1 away from early endosomes was also observed in the same cells at later stages of cell elongation. A subpopulation of GFP-KOR1–containing compartments followed trajectories along the plasma membrane, and this motility required intact microtubules. These observations demonstrate that the deposition of cellulose, like chitin synthesis in yeast, involves the regulated intracellular cycling of at least one enzyme required for its synthesis.
!~RES~! An affinity-purified polyclonal antiserum against the N-terminal cytosolic domain of KOR1, referred to as αNKOR1, recognized a unique 72-kD band on immunoblots of crude extracts prepared from wild-type Arabidopsis seedlings. Extracts from seedlings homozygous for the leaky kor1-1 allele and the null kor1-2 allele showed a weak band and no band at all, respectively, demonstrating the specificity of the antiserum (Figure 1A). This antiserum recognized a protein in all growing plant organs, such as stems, leaves, roots, and hypocotyls (Figure 1B). KOR1 was undetectable in imbibed seeds and appeared during germination in dark-grown seedlings, peaked during the growth phase of the hypocotyl, and disappeared again at the end of the elongation phase (Figures 1C and 1D). In light-grown conditions, a similar pattern was observed except that KOR1 expression remained detectable also after hypocotyl growth arrest (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] To study the subcellular localization of KOR1, we performed immunolocalization with αNKOR1 in root cells. Surprisingly, no KOR1 labeling was detected in the plasma membrane (Figure 2) or in the developing cell plate in dividing cells (data not shown). By contrast, the antibody revealed an intracellular punctate staining pattern in Arabidopsis root cells (Figures 2A and 2B). No KOR1 labeling was detected in the null allele kor1-2 (Figure 2C), confirming again the specificity of the antibody. As an additional control, root cells of wild-type plants expressing a c-myc–tagged version of KOR1 from the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter were doubly labeled with αNKOR1 (Figure 2D) and a monoclonal anti-c-myc antibody (Figure 2E). The c-myc–tagged protein was still functional in that it was able to complement the hypocotyl and root phenotype of the kor1-1 mutant (data not shown). Both antibodies colocalized, again confirming the specificity of the immunolabeling (Figure 2F). [[FIGURE]] To confirm the intracellular localization, a translational GFP-KOR1 fusion protein was expressed under the constitutive cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter in homozygous kor1-1. To ascertain the biological activity of this construct, we compared the hypocotyl length of dark-grown seedlings and the root length of light-grown seedlings of the wild type, kor1-1, and the transformants (Figure 3). Although kor1-1 seedlings exhibited their characteristic short-hypocotyl phenotype, several independent transformants developed hypocotyl length similar to that of the wild-type control (Figures 3A and 3B). The same GFP-KOR1–expressing lines showed a root length that was intermediate between kor1-1 and wild-type roots when grown in the light (Figure 3C). It is conceivable that the partial complementation of the root phenotype is the result of a negative effect of the overexpression of the fusion protein on root growth, because the same construct also interfered slightly with root growth when expressed in a wild-type background (data not shown). In conclusion, depending on the cellular context, the GFP-KOR1 fusion protein complemented totally or partially the growth defect of kor1-1. The fusion protein, therefore, is at least in part targeted to the same subcellular compartments as the wild-type protein. [[FIGURE]] We next investigated the subcellular localization of the GFP-KOR1 fusion protein using confocal laser scanning microscopy on root epidermal cells in their early elongation phase (cell length between 8 and 30 μm). Similar to the antibody staining, a punctate GFP signal was observed (Figures 4A [corresponding to a still image of Supplemental Video 1 online] and 4C). The orthogonal projection obtained from 12 successive confocal sections showed that the GFP-KOR1–containing compartments were concentrated close to the plasma membrane (see Supplemental Video 1 online). Moreover, the tonoplast was strongly labeled, which was not observed with αNKOR1 in wild-type plants or in plants overexpressing the KOR1–c-myc construct from the same 35S promoter. Therefore, the tonoplast labeling must be related to the properties of the GFP fusion protein. Again, no labeling of the plasma membrane was observed, and despite numerous attempts, we have never observed cell plate labeling in dividing root cells, embryonic cells, or Arabidopsis cell suspension cultures (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] To characterize the intracellular compartments, we first performed double-labeling experiments with αNKOR1 and anti-c-myc on roots expressing the Golgi-localized protein Glt6–c-myc (Figures 2G to 2I) (CITATION). KOR1 partially colocalized with the Golgi marker. The intracellular distribution of KOR1 varied in different cell types and plant species. For instance, no colocalization was observed in maize (Zea mays) root cells labeled with αNKOR1 and JIM84, an antibody raised against a glycan epitope present in the Golgi apparatus and plasma membrane (data not shown). Together, these observations indicate that KOR1 accumulated in a heterogeneous population of compartments, which can comprise the Golgi apparatus depending on the cellular context. To further characterize the heterogeneous population of KOR1-containing compartments, we used the fluorescent styryl dye FM4-64, which is known to follow the endocytic pathway, from the plasma membrane via endosomes to the vacuole, when exogenously added to yeast (CITATION) or plant cells (CITATION). Immediately after adding FM4-64, the plasma membrane of root epidermal cells was labeled. Ten minutes later, FM4-64 appeared in intracellular compartments, which, given the short internalization times, are thought to correspond to early endosomes (CITATION; CITATION). These compartments partially colocalized with GFP-KOR1, suggesting that the GFP-KOR1 in these compartments also was internalized from the plasma membrane (Figure 4F). In addition, we observed characteristic composite structures consisting of two adjacent compartments labeled, respectively, by GFP-KOR1 and FM4-64. To confirm the localization in the early endosomes, we studied the effect of the vesicle-trafficking inhibitor brefeldin A (BFA) on the dynamics of GFP-KOR1 compartments. Short-term treatments with BFA induce in root cells the reversible formation of large aggregates (CITATION), which contain both exocytic and endocytic material (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Roots were treated for a short time with BFA, and the localization of GFP-KOR1 was followed in root cells at different growth stages. We first observed that the responses to BFA treatments were variable among individual roots and even within the same root among cells at different growth stages. Similar observations have been reported recently and may reflect local differences in auxin concentration (CITATION). In elongating cells, a 30-min BFA treatment led to the disappearance of the GFP-KOR1–labeled punctate structures and a concomitant emergence of a single large aggregate per cell (Figure 5B), without affecting the labeling of the tonoplast. This treatment was completely reversible upon withdrawal of BFA (Figure 5C). BFA-induced compartments were also observed (Figure 5F) in wild-type root cells upon immunofluorescence staining with αNKOR1. To confirm the presence of KOR1 in endosomal compartments, double labeling of KOR1 and GNOM was performed in GNOM–c-myc seedlings after BFA treatment (Figures 5F to 5H). GNOM is an ARF-GEF that mediates the endosomal recycling of PIN1, a transport facilitator of the plant hormone auxin (CITATION). Upon BFA treatment, we observed a partial colocalization of GNOM–c-myc and KOR1, suggesting that these proteins are present in overlapping endosomal compartments. [[FIGURE]] Together, these observations demonstrate the presence of GFP-KOR1, like endogenous KOR1, in early endosomal compartments. Actin is known to play a major role in organelle motility and vesicle trafficking (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To determine the role of actin on the localization of GFP-KOR1–labeled compartments, we treated roots with cytochalasin D (cytD), which depolymerizes actin filaments. Short treatments with cytD alone did not lead to observable changes in the distribution of the GFP-KOR1 compartments (Figure 5D). Pretreatment of cytD, however, inhibited the formation of the large BFA-induced compartment (Figure 5E). These observations confirm that the formation of the GFP-KOR1–containing BFA-induced compartment depended on an intact actin cytoskeleton. The observations described above showed that KOR1 accumulated in a heterogeneous population of intracellular compartments. These compartments may either reflect an intracellular activity for KOR1 or may be part of a general trafficking pathway that controls the access of KOR1 to its extracellular substrate. To investigate the relation between KOR1 localization and cellulose synthesis, we first studied the localization of GFP-KOR1 in protoplasts generated from leaf mesophyll cells. Despite the highly active cellulose synthesis machinery in regenerating protoplasts, GFP-KOR1 was still present in intracellular compartments without detectable staining of the plasma membrane (data not shown). In a second experiment, roots were treated with isoxaben, which targets the cellulose synthase catalytic subunits CESA3 and CESA6 (CITATION; CITATION) and specifically inhibits cellulose synthesis in <1 h (G. Mouille, unpublished data). Seedlings were treated with isoxaben for 1 h, and the subcellular localization of GFP-KOR1 was monitored in root epidermal cells and compared with the localization of the plasma membrane marker GFP-LTI6b (CITATION). In the presence of isoxaben, no accumulation in the plasma membrane was observed (Figures 4B and 4E [corresponding to a still image of Supplemental Video 2 online]). Interestingly, however, the average size and intracellular distribution of GFP-KOR1–containing compartments had changed (Figures 4B, 4D, and 4E), in contrast with the plasma membrane marker GFP-LTI6b, the localization of which was unaffected by the treatment (Figures 4I and 4J). To quantify these changes, we measured the relative surface area of the GFP-KOR1–labeled compartments and determined their intracellular distribution by counting the compartments present in successive optical sections between the external cell surface and the tonoplast and comparing this number with the total number of compartments in each cell (Figure 4D). In control cells, a broad size distribution was observed, with a median surface area of 0.42 ± 0.28 μm2 (n = 1133). In isoxaben-treated cells, GFP-KOR1–labeled compartments were smaller (0.22 μm2), more homogeneous, as shown by the narrower size distribution (±0.12 μm2; n = 514), and closer to the external surface of the cells (50% of the compartments were present near the external surface of the cell compared with only 30% in the control roots [Figure 4D; see Supplemental Video 2 online]). Labeling with FM4-64 for 10 min revealed endosomal compartments in both control and isoxaben-treated seedlings (Figures 4F and 4G), indicating that, in contrast with auxin (CITATION), isoxaben did not affect endocytosis per se. Interestingly, only in control cells did GFP-KOR1 partially colocalize with FM4-64 compartments, whereas in isoxaben-treated cells, no such colocalization was observed. In addition, in isoxaben-treated cells, we never observed the composite structures consisting of two adjacent compartments labeled by GFP-KOR1 and FM4-64, respectively. These results indicate that the inhibition of cellulose synthesis by isoxaben coincided with a redistribution of GFP-KOR1 out of FM4-64–labeled compartments and into a homogeneous population of smaller, polarly distributed compartments, which were detected primarily adjacent to the plasma membrane facing the root surface. The observations described above show that GFP-KOR1 cycles through different intracellular compartments and that the cycling dynamics can be influenced by isoxaben. We next investigated whether the cycling is regulated during different growth stages of the cell. To this end, we incubated 3-d-old roots for 10 min with FM4-64 and compared the colocalization of GFP-KOR1 with the dye in two distinct populations of epidermal cells: small cells of 10 μm in their early elongation phase, and larger but still rapidly expanding cells more proximally in the root elongation zone (50 to 70 μm). Fourier transform infrared microspectroscopy showed that the relative cellulose content was higher in the larger cells than in the smaller cells (G. Mouille, personal communication). Individual cells in both cell populations showed large variations in colocalization, which may reflect local variations in auxin, as described by CITATION, or some other critical factor(s). Interestingly, despite these large variations, highly significant differences were observed in the colocalization between the two cell populations (Figure 4H). Indeed, in smaller cells, on average 15% of the GFP-KOR1 compartments colocalized with the early endosomal marker, compared with only 2.5% in the larger cells. These results demonstrate that the intracellular cycling of GFP-KOR1 was developmentally regulated, with a preferential mobilization out of FM4-64–labeled compartments in larger cells with higher relative cellulose contents. To study the motility of GFP-KOR1 compartments, we produced time-lapse videos of root cells. The video (Figure 6G corresponds to a still image of Supplemental Video 3 online) shows that at least a subpopulation of these compartments was motile and showed linear trajectories parallel to the plasma membrane. Cortical microtubules, like cellulose microfibrils, form transversely oriented arrays in elongating cells. Evidence that microtubules can orient the deposition of microfibrils exists, but the exact mechanistic link between microtubule orientation and cellulose deposition is not understood (CITATION; CITATION). Given the key role for KOR1 in cellulose synthesis, it is conceivable that the movement of the GFP-KOR1 compartments is related to the oriented deposition of the cellulose microfibrils. Therefore, we investigated whether there was a link between the directional movements of the GFP-KOR1 compartments and microtubules. Seedlings were treated for 10 min with 10 μM oryzalin to depolymerize microtubules (Figures 6B and 6E). Interestingly, this treatment completely abolished the motility of GFP-KOR1–labeled compartments (data not shown), which indicated that the dynamic behavior of GFP-KOR1 compartments, in contrast with early endosomes or the Golgi apparatus (CITATION), depended on the presence of intact microtubules. The oryzalin treatment also caused the formation of GFP-KOR–containing aggregates (Figures 6A and 6D). As a control, similar oryzalin treatments did not provoke clusters of the plasma membrane GFP-LTI6b fusion protein (Figures 6C and 6F) or of a Golgi marker (CITATION; G. Mouille, personal communication), indicating that oryzalin specifically disturbed the localization of GFP-KOR1 compartments. [[FIGURE]] Using manual tracking (Figure 6G), the average velocity of these compartments was evaluated at 1.7 ± 0.31 μm/min, whereas acceleration and deceleration phases could be observed with peak velocities of up to 5.8 μm/min. The average velocity is much lower than that reported for the Golgi apparatus (4.2 μm/s) (CITATION) and processive myosin movement on actin (7 μm/s) (CITATION) and is closer to the velocity of kinesin movement on microtubules (CITATION; CITATION).
!~MM~! Seeds of Arabidopsis thaliana ecotypes Ws and Columbia were provided by K. Feldman (University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ). Mutants used were kor1-1 (CITATION) and kor1-2, which was kindly provided by N.-H. Chua (CITATION). The GNOM–c-myc and the GFP-LTI6b (stock center number N84726) (CITATION) lines were kindly provided by G. Jürgens. The Glt6–c-myc line was kindly provided by P. Dupree (CITATION). Arabidopsis seedlings were grown on solid medium as described by CITATION without sucrose at 20°C. Seeds were cold-treated for 48 h to synchronize germination. For dark-growth conditions, seeds were exposed to fluorescent white light (200 μmol·m−2·s−1) for 4 h to induce germination, and the plates were wrapped in three layers of aluminum foil. The age of the seedlings was counted from the beginning of the light treatment. For light-growth conditions, plants were grown in a 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle. Three-day-old light-grown seedlings were treated with 4×10−9 M isoxaben for 1 h, 50 μM BFA for 30 min, and 10 μM oryzalin for 10 min. The initial stocks of isoxaben and BFA were in DMSO, and to obtain the appropriate concentration in the culture medium, the stocks were diluted at least 1000-fold. Cells in living roots were stained with 50 μM FM4-64 (Molecular Probes). The construct was made using Gateway cloning technology (Invitrogen). In short, the full-length cDNA of KOR1 was amplified by PCR using the primer KOR1U containing the 1/2 attB1 recombination site and the start codon of the KOR1 gene (5′-AAAAAAGCAGGCTCCATGTACGGAAGAGATCCATGGGGAGGT-3′) and the primer KOR1L containing the 1/2 attB2 recombination site and the stop codon of the KOR1 gene (5′-AAGAAAGCTGGGTCAGGTTTCCATGGTGCTGGTGGAGGTGGTGG-3′). The final construct was verified by sequencing. kor1-1 and wild-type seedlings were transformed by infiltration using Agrobacterium tumefaciens carrying the GFP-KOR1 construct (CITATION). T2 lines were analyzed: three lines in the wild-type background and two lines in the kor1-1 background segregated hygromycin (25 mg/L) with a 3:1 ratio. The wild-type background lines were amplified, and homozygous lines were used in these experiments. Seedlings (n = 50) were spread out on agar plates, and the lengths of roots and hypocotyls were measured using image-analysis software (Optimas 5; Bioscan). Crude extracts were prepared from Arabidopsis seedlings. Fifty seedlings were ground in 100 μL of extraction buffer (1 M Tris-HCl, pH 7.8, 1 mM EDTA, 1 mM DTT, and 1.5 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride) and centrifuged at 13,000g for 10 min to remove debris. Protein gel blot analysis was performed as described by CITATION with a 1:260 dilution of αNKOR1. The secondary antibody used was an anti-rabbit peroxide antibody with a 1:700 dilution (Sigma-Aldrich). The 3- to 6-d-old Arabidopsis seedlings were fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde in MSTB (50 mM PIPES, 5 mM EGTA, and 0.2% Triton X-100) for 1 h. Samples were washed with MSTB (two times, 15 min). Cell walls were digested with 0.2% Pectolyase, 0.8% Macerozyme, 0.4 M mannitol, and protease inhibitor for 30 min at room temperature. Samples were washed with 0.5% Triton X-100/MSTB (once for 15 min, once for 10 min) and with PBS (two times, 15 min). Seedlings were preincubated in 3% BSA/PBS for 1 h and incubated with the primary antibody (αNKOR1 diluted 1:260; c-myc diluted 1:800 [Sigma-Aldrich]) in 3% BSA/PBS overnight at 4°C. After extensive washing with PBS at room temperature (three times, 20 min), the seedlings were incubated with a secondary antibody coupled to fluorochromes (Alexa 488 and Alexa 568 diluted 1:500 [Molecular Probes]) in 3% BSA/PBS for another 2 h at 37°C. Finally, the seedlings were washed with PBS (three times, 20 min) at room temperature in the dark. Images were collected with a spectral Leica SP2 AOBS confocal microscope (Leica Microsystems) equipped with an argon laser and a HeNe laser. Different fluorochromes were detected using laser lines 488 nm (Alexa 488, GFP, and FM4-64) and 543 nm (Alexa 568). The images were coded green (fluorescein isothiocyanate, GFP) and red (Alexa 568, FM4-64), giving yellow colocalization in merged images. The oil objectives used were ×40 (numerical aperture 1.25), giving a resolution of 160 nm in the x-y plane and 330 nm along the z axis (pinhole 1 Airy unit). Each image shown represents either a single focal plan or a projection of individual images taken as a Z series. To determine the specificity of the signals, sequential scans were performed. Time-lapse imaging was performed at a 512-scan format, collecting images at 10-s intervals for 4 min at a medium scan speed (450 lines/s). Twenty-five stacks of six sections were collected and assembled to process the movie. Orthogonal projections were done with Leica software (see supplemental data online). Manual tracking was performed to measure the average velocities of GFP-KOR1–containing compartments showing linear trajectories using the Image J software (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/) manual tracking plug-in developed by F. Cordelières (Institut Curie). Ten individual tracks were measured. GFP-KOR1 seedlings were grown on Arabidopsis medium without sucrose for 3 d under light conditions. Isoxaben (4×10−9 M) was administered to seedlings for 1 h. Confocal microscopy observations were acquired and analyzed with Image J software. Dot surfaces were measured for every dot within the cells treated with isoxaben or DMSO (control). Concerning the analysis of the distribution of dots, the ratio was determined between the number of dots found on the upper side of the cell and the total number of dots. The upper side was defined as the volume found between the surface of the cell and the tonoplast. Each optical section analyzed was 0.5 μm deep. Student's t tests were performed: t values for the comparison between DMSO- and 4×10−9 M isoxaben–treated seedlings were −6.02 and 28.14 for GFP-KOR1 compartment position and surface, respectively. Colocalization was evaluated in epidermal cells of two different stages of development: small cells that started to elongate (∼10 μm) and larger cells (between 50 and 70 μm). Using an adequate resolution in the x-y plane, 60 single optical sections from 60 individual cells were collected. In each channel, the center of each compartment was determined using a manual method. After merging images, compartments were considered colabeled if the distance between the two compartments was equal or less than the resolution (0156 μm in the x-y axis). The percentage of colocalization was defined as the ratio between the number of colabeled compartments and the total number of colabeled compartments and GFP-KOR1 compartments. A Student's t test was performed: the t value for the comparison between the two categories of cells was 3.78×10−9. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Video 1. Orthogonal Projection from Living Root Cells Expressing the GFP-KOR1 Fusion Protein. Supplemental Video 2. Orthogonal Projection from Living Root Cells Expressing the GFP-KOR1 Fusion Protein Treated with 4×10−9 M Isoxaben for 1 h. Supplemental Video 3. Time-Lapse Movie of GFP-KOR1–Labeled Structures in a Transgenic Arabidopsis Root for 4 min.
