!~ABS~! Genes and proteins related to patatin, the major storage protein of potato tubers, have been identified in many plant species and shown to be induced by a variety of environmental stresses. The Arabidopsis patatin-like gene family (PLPs) comprises nine members, two of which (PLP2 and PLP7) are strongly induced in leaves challenged with fungal and bacterial pathogens. Here we show that accumulation of PLP2 protein in response to Botrytis cinerea or Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato (avrRpt2) is dependent on jasmonic acid and ethylene signaling, but is not dependent on salicylic acid. Expression of a PLP2–green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein and analysis of recombinant PLP2 indicates that PLP2 encodes a cytoplasmic lipid acyl hydrolase with wide substrate specificity. Transgenic plants with altered levels of PLP2 protein were generated and assayed for pathogen resistance. Plants silenced for PLP2 expression displayed enhanced resistance to B. cinerea, whereas plants overexpressing PLP2 were much more sensitive to this necrotrophic fungus. We also established a positive correlation between the level of PLP2 expression in transgenic plants and cell death or damage in response to paraquat treatment or infection by avirulent P. syringae. Interestingly, repression of PLP2 expression increased resistance to avirulent bacteria, while PLP2-overexpressing plants multiplied avirulent bacteria close to the titers reached by virulent bacteria. Collectively, the data indicate that PLP2-encoded lipolytic activity can be exploited by pathogens with different lifestyles to facilitate host colonization. In particular PLP2 potentiates plant cell death inflicted by Botrytis and reduces the efficiency of the hypersensitive response in restricting the multiplication of avirulent bacteria. Both effects are possibly mediated by providing fatty acid precursors of bioactive oxylipins.
!~RES~! A search for patatin homologs in the Arabidopsis genome using the potato tuber patatin protein sequence as the query yielded nine genes encoding proteins with sizes ranging from 382 to 526 amino acids (Figure 1a,b). Figure 1(a) presents the AGI code of each gene and the name given by CITATION based on the phospholipase activity of only one patatin-like protein (AtPLP2/AtPLAIIA, see below) and on gene localization on the chromosomes. For reason of simplicity and convenience, we numbered the patatin-like proteins (PLPs) according to decreasing similarity to potato patatin. [[FIGURE]] Sequence comparisons and multiple alignments showed that the proteins fall into two groups with regards to overall similarity to potato tuber patatin and structure of the catalytic site. Group I contains five proteins that are 36/58% to 44/61% identical/similar to patatin. The four group II proteins are only 24/42% to 30/48% identical/similar to patatin. Pairwise identity/similarity scores can be found in Figure S1. All the patatin sequences identified to date in other plant species belong to group I (Figure 1b) and share a strictly conserved serine hydrolase/lipase motif GXSXG, along with a conserved aspartic acid (Figure 1c). These serine and aspartic acid residues constitute a catalytic dyad that is critical for the LAH activity of patatin (CITATION). Interestingly, these residues are much less conserved in group II proteins, raising the question of whether these isoforms display enzymatic activity. Besides Arabidopsis, a single group II gene was found in the rice genome, but partial group II cDNA sequences can be identified in most plant species with available gene indices (http://www.tigr.org/tdb/tgi/). Previously, an Arabidopsis sequence (At1g61850) that is similar to animal iPLA2 was found to display a patatin motif and was proposed to define a genuine patatin-like subgroup (CITATION). However, we did not include this gene in the PLPs, as the encoded protein is much larger (1265 amino acids) than PLPs, contains an N-terminal leucine-rich repeat, and its similarity with the closest patatin homolog is limited to 38% over a region of only 290 amino acids. Because of potential cross-hybridization between transcripts, and to ensure high sensitivity, we chose real-time reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR rather than RNA blot hybridization to visualize PLP gene expression in leaves challenged with different pathogens. A necrotrophic fungus, B. cinerea (Bc) or an avirulent bacterium, P. syringae pv. tomato DC3000 expressing the avirulence gene avrRpt2 (Pst DC3000 avrRpt2) were used independently to induce defense responses in leaves. Gene-specific primer pairs were first checked for robust and specific amplification on genomic DNA. However, no clear signal was obtained in the RT-PCR procedure for genes PLP1, PLP3, PLP4, PLP5 or PLP8 before or after infection (data not shown), suggesting that these genes are not expressed to detectable levels in leaves. In healthy leaves, a low but unambiguous signal amplification was obtained for four PLP genes: PLP2, PLP6, PLP7 and PLP9. PLP9 was slightly down-regulated in response to both pathogens, in contrast to PLP6 which was found slightly induced (Figure 2a,b). Levels of PLP2 and PLP7 transcript were very low in healthy leaves and clearly increased in response to Bc and avirulent Pst infections (Figure 2), the absolute expression level of PLP7 being about 10 times lower than that of PLP2 after 72 h (data not shown). Moreover, the kinetics of induction upon fungal or bacterial infection were different for both genes. [[FIGURE]] Because PLP2 appeared in these experiments as the only group I gene (i.e. with a conserved lipase motif) to be pathogen responsive, we decided to focus on its functional characterization. Recombinant PLP2 protein was produced in Escherichia coli (see below) and a polyclonal antibody was obtained. The serum detected a 44 kDa protein only in infected leaves (Figure 3a). This signal was lost when serum was pre-incubated with recombinant PLP2, showing that it is specific for PLP2. Consistent with transcript accumulation data, kinetic studies established that PLP2 protein is induced in leaves infected by B. cinerea or by Alternaria brassicicola, another necrotrophic fungus, whereas no signal was visible in control leaves (Figure 3b). The PLP2 response to Pst was examined with the virulent DC3000 strain and also with two avirulent strains expressing either the avrRpt2 or avrRpm1 avirulence genes. Interestingly, the PLP2 protein was induced to much higher levels in response to the two avirulent strains than to the virulent bacterial strain (Figure 3c). This indicates that full induction is associated with the gene-for-gene-dependent hypersensitive response. [[FIGURE]] To investigate the distribution of gene expression in leaves, PLP2 promoter–GUS reporter lines were generated. A 1.8 kb genomic fragment of the PLP2 gene was cloned upstream of the GUS coding sequence and the construct was transformed into Col-0 plants. Single insertion T2 plants were inoculated with Bc or Pst strains and infected leaves were stained for GUS activity 72 h later. Figure 4(a) shows strong GUS staining in living tissue immediately surrounding Bc lesions, whereas central, dead tissue was devoid of staining. After infiltration of avirulent Pst avrRpt2, staining was also restricted to a ring of cells at the edge of the infiltrated area in which no signal was visible (Figure 4c). With both pathogens, the strongest PLP2 promoter activity was observed at the infection front, in cells that will undergo subsequent cell death. On the contrary, diffuse GUS staining was visible in tissue areas infiltrated with virulent Pst bacteria (Figure 4d). In immunoblotting experiments, the induction by Bc was found to be restricted to infected leaves, as no PLP2 protein could be detected in systemic leaves (Figure 3e, wt, lanes 2). To unravel the signaling pathway involved in this induction, PLP2 expression was examined after Bc inoculation in coi1, ein2 and npr1 mutant lines that are insensitive to jasmonic acid (JA) (CITATION), ethylene (ET) (CITATION) and salicylic acid (SA) (CITATION) defense signals, respectively. Figure 3(e) shows that PLP2 accumulation is abolished in coi1 and nearly absent in ein2 genotypes, but similar to wild type in npr1. A similar regulation was observed after infiltration of Pst avrRpt2 (data not shown). This result indicates that induction of PLP2 by pathogens is dependent on JA and ET signaling but not on SA signaling. Consistently, abundant PLP2 accumulation could be induced by a combined treatment with amino-cyclopropane carboxylic acid (ACC), the precursor of ET, and methyl jasmonate (MJ) (Figure 3d). In contrast, severe wounding of leaves did not result in the induction of PLP2 protein to detectable levels (Figure 3f). This was confirmed with PLP2–GUS reporter lines which did not show any GUS staining after mechanical wounding (Figure 4b). [[FIGURE]] PLP2 cDNA was amplified from RNA extracted from infected leaves and cloned in the E. coli pGEX-KG expression vector in C-terminal fusion with glutathione-S-transferase (GST). A protein of 72 kDa corresponding to the predicted size of the GST–PLP2 fusion was visible in the lysate of induced bacteria. The fusion protein was captured on glutathione-agarose beads, and cleaved with thrombin to release the 44 kDa PLP2 protein. The analysis of the successive purification steps by PAGE is shown in Figure S2. The purified PLP2 protein was first assayed for fatty acid release from [14C]-oleic acid-labeled E. coli membranes as substrate. Oleic acid incorporates mainly (>90%) into the sn-2 position of phospholipids (70% phosphatidylethanolamine, 20% phosphatidylglycerol and 8% cardiolipin in E. coli membranes), providing a specific PLA2 assay with the lipid substrate being presented in a biological membrane environment (CITATION). The PLP2 protein displayed a dose-dependent PLA2 activity in this assay (Figure 5a). To determine substrate preference on isolated lipids, PLP2 activity was monitored in a mixed micelle assay with phosphatidylcholine (PC), phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) and on the galactolipids monogalactosyldiacylglycerol (MGDG) or digalactosyldiacylglycerol (DGDG) as substrates. In plant leaves, PC and PE are the most abundant lipids of extrachloroplastic membranes whereas galactolipids are predominant in chloroplastic membranes. The nature and quantity of free FAs released were determined by gas chromatography (see Experimental procedures section). Although all four lipids were substrates, the highest activity was found with MGDG, followed by DGDG, PE and PC (Figure 5b). In all cases, the ratio of FAs released from a given substrate was similar to that obtained by chemical hydrolysis (data not shown), indicating that PLP2 has no sn position specificity. Thus, PLP2 displays preferential galactolipase activity in vitro, exceeding PLA activity. No particular targeting sequence could be identified in the predicted PLP2 protein sequence. To get insight into the subcellular localization of the protein, the PLP2 cDNA was cloned upstream of the enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) sequence under the control of the 35S promoter. The construct was then transformed stably into Col-0 plants. Transformants were indistinguishable from control plants, and leaf sectors from T2 plants were observed for GFP fluorescence by confocal microscopy. Consistent with the absence of a cleavable N-terminal signal sequence, GFP fluorescence was visible in the cytoplasm, both in uninfected mesophyll (Figure 6a) and in epidermal cells (Figure 6b). In mesophyll, the GFP signal was restricted to the narrow zone of cytoplasm at the periphery of the cell, with clear exclusion from chloroplasts, as seen by chlorophyll red autofluorescence. In epidermal cells (Figure 6b) that are poor in chloroplasts, green fluorescence was apparent in cortical cytoplasm. In Pst-infected leaves, labeling was more heterogeneous and reticulated, suggesting that under pathogen attack part of PLP2 is redistributed to membrane structures (Figure 6c,d). Taken together, the results show that PLP2 is a LAH with wide substrate specificity that is predominantly located in the cytoplasm of healthy leaves but seems to associate with cellular membranes in infected cells. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In order to study the in planta function of PLP2, we searched for insertion mutant lines in available T-DNA collections. A line (205C02) from the GABI-KAT collection was identified with an insertion in the second exon of the PLP2 gene. The T3 progeny after selfing of this line segregated 66.9% sulfadiazine-resistant plantlets (n = 1273, P = 0.05, χ2 = 3.65). Genotyping of 85 resistant plants identified no homozygous plant for the insertion. Accordingly, when immature siliques of heterozygote plants were examined, 28% (n = 158) of embryos were found blocked at the globular-to-heart stage (data not shown). These observations suggest that this mutant line has a defect that results in embryo lethality in the homozygous state. We transformed the heterozygous mutant with either a construct containing a genomic fragment encompassing the complete PLP2 gene (with 1.8 kb upstream promoter region), or with a 35S:PLP2 cDNA construct, but were unable to unambigously restore a normal segregation in the T2 progeny of the transformants. As no other T-DNA line was available we decided to silence the PLP2 gene by an RNA interference (RNAi) approach. We generated plants transformed with a construct containing a hairpin repeat of a fragment of the PLP2 cDNA under the control of the 35S promoter (siPLP2). In parallel, PLP2-overexpressing plants (PLP2OE) containing the entire PLP2 cDNA behind the same promoter were obtained. None of these plant lines exhibited any visible developmental phenotype. Fifteen independent transgenic lines were selected by immunodetection of the PLP2 protein before and after infection by Bc and two single insertion lines for each construct were further analyzed. Figure 7 shows a representative example for each construct. In contrast to control lines, siPLP2 lines did not accumulate detectable levels of PLP2 protein 72 h after Bc inoculation (Figure 7a). Conversely, uninfected PLP2OE lines displayed constitutive expression of PLP2 protein to a level comparable to infected wild-type plants. As MGDG proved to be the best substrate of recombinant PLP2 enzyme, we used it as a substrate to measure LAH activity levels in the same plant extracts. In all cases, enzyme activity was strictly correlated with the intensity of the PLP2 signal (Figure 7b). The activity was undetectable in untreated wild-type plants, but was clearly induced after Bc infection. Like the accumulation of PLP2 protein, the induction of LAH activity was abolished in infected siPLP2 plants. Silencing was also observed in response to Pst infection or ACC/MJ treatment (data not shown). Conversely, the constitutive expression of PLP2 in uninfected PLP2OE lines was accompanied by a constitutive LAH activity. These data demonstrate that in Arabidopsis soluble LAH activity is induced upon pathogen infection and that this activity is due to the expression of the PLP2 gene. [[FIGURE]] To gain insight into the role of PLP2 in the outcome of microbial attack, transgenic plants with altered PLP2 levels were challenged with Bc and Pst and the lesion growth/multiplication of the pathogen was measured. Bc spores were inoculated on half leaves across the midvein and symptoms were observed 3 days later. As shown in Figure 8(a) (top panel), symptoms observed 3 days after inoculation of Bc spores differed between the three plant genotypes. Strikingly, siPLP2 plants showed lesions with reduced sizes compared with controls, whereas PLP2OE plants exhibited enhanced disease symptoms. Disease was scored by counting the distribution of the lesions in three size classes: small, diameter ≤3.5 mm; medium, 3.5 mm < diameter ≤ 6.5 mm; large, diameter >6.5 mm. This scoring also reflected the visual severity of symptoms. Figure 8(a) (bottom panel) shows that siPLP2 plants exhibit a reduction in the percentage of large lesions (16% versus 45% in control) and a corresponding increase in the proportion of small lesions number (43% versus 21% in controls). Conversely, PLP2OE plants showed a marked reduction in small and medium-sized lesions (2.4% versus 21% and 15% versus 34% in controls, respectively), and an increase close to 100% in the proportion of large lesions. To determine if changes in lesion sizes were due to altered fungal growth, we monitored fungal DNA content in leaves by real-time PCR with tubulin-specific primers. As seen in Figure 8(b), at 2 and 3 days’ post-inoculation, differential fungal growth in PLP2-modified plants confirmed altered resistance revealed by measurements of lesion size. These results clearly indicate that the expression of PLP2 favors the progression of B. cinerea in leaf tissue. [[FIGURE]] We then examined the behavior of PLP2-modified plants in response to Pst infection. Inoculation of 106 colony-forming units (cfu) ml−1 resulted in the appearance of differential symptoms with Pst avrRpt2 as shown in Figure 9(a), while symptoms were similar with virulent Pst (data not shown). At 48 h after infiltration with Pst avrRpt2, control plants showed symptoms of drying typical of HR. Curling of the tip of the leaves due to water loss was reduced in siPLP2 plants, while symptoms were more severe in PLP2OE plants that exhibited exaggerated cell damage. To monitor the evolution of cell death, ion leakage was measured in the three genotypes upon Pst avrRpt2 infection. Ion leakage reflecting damage to plasma membranes was correlated with symptom severity (Figure 9b), with a weaker response in siPLP2 plants and an enhancement in PLP2OE plants compared with control plants. To evaluate the levels of Pst resistance in the transgenic lines, plants were infiltrated with 105 cfu ml−1 of bacteria and the leaf bacterial titer was determined over 3 days after inoculation. Growth of virulent Pst bacteria was identical in control and in siPLP2 plants (Figure 9c, open symbols). As expected, the multiplication of avirulent Pst avrRpt2 bacteria was restricted in control plants due to the HR triggered by gene-for-gene recognition (Figure 9c, closed triangles). In PLP2-deficient plants (Figure 9a, closed circles), the decrease in bacterial multiplication was even more pronounced at 3 days. Thus, expression of PLP2 in control plants allows more consistent multiplication of avirulent Pseudomonas bacteria compared with silenced plants at the later stages of infection. In a second series of experiments, we monitored the growth of both bacterial strains in PLP2OE plants. Growth of virulent Pst was only slightly enhanced in PLP2OE plants compared with controls (Figure 9d, open symbols). Strikingly, multiplication of avirulent Pst avrRpt2 bacteria was strongly increased in PLP2OE plants, with titers close to those reached by virulent bacteria (Figure 9d, closed squares). Collectively, our results show that the expression of PLP2 provides a more favorable environment for the multiplication of a necrotrophic fungus and an avirulent bacterium. [[FIGURE]] Because transgenic plants with altered levels of PLP2 exhibited modified levels of resistance to two pathogens that trigger different forms of host cell death, we examined their sensitivity to paraquat, a chemical that induces necrosis by generating toxic reactive oxygen intermediates. As shown in Figure 10(a), control plants exhibited no symptoms 20 h after paraquat treatment, whereas at 40 h small necrotic areas developed within the infiltrated zone. siPLP2 plants showed a reduction in the extent of necrosis at 40 h, the necrotic spots always being clearly smaller than the treated zone. In PLP2OE plants, cell death appeared by 20 h post-treatment, and at 40 h damage was much more severe than in the controls, reaching the edges or tips of the leaves. Protein extracts of plants infiltrated with paraquat were analyzed for the presence of PLP2. Figure 10(b) shows that PLP2 is induced concomitantly with the appearance of tissue damage at 40 h in control plants, confirming at the protein level the upregulation of the PLP2 gene by paraquat that was reported earlier by transcriptome analysis (CITATION). PLP2 protein was undetectable in silenced plants, and its level (constitutively high) slightly increased after paraquat treatment in sense plants. These results indicate that PLP2 expression potentiates the appearance of symptoms of cell death induced by paraquat. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis plants (all of Col-0 ecotype) were grown under controlled conditions in a growth chamber at a day/night regime of 20/16°C and 12/12 h photoperiod under 8 klx. Alternaria brassicicola (strain MUCL20297) and B. cinerea (strain IMI169558, Mycothèque Université Catholique de Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium) were grown respectively on 6 Cereal Agar and Potato Dextrose Agar (Duchefa, Haarlem, The Netherlands) at 22°C. Fungal spores were prepared and quantified as described in (CITATION). Strains of P. syringae pv tomato DC3000 (Pst) were cultured at 28°C in NYGB medium (bactopeptone 5 g l−1, yeast extract 3 g l−1, glycerol 20 g l−1) supplemented with rifampicin (100 μg ml−1) and kanamycin (25 μg ml−1). Infection with A. brassicicola, B. cinerea and P. syringae pv. tomato strains or treatment with chemicals were performed on 6-week-old soil-grown plants. For A. brassicicola inoculation, two 5 μl drops of a suspension of 5 × 105 conidial spores ml−1 in water were placed across the midvein of each leaf. For B. cinerea inoculation, two needleprick wounds were made per leaf before placing 5 μl drops of a suspension of 5 × 105 ml−1 conidial spores in potato dextrose broth medium (Duchefa) on the wounds. For Pst inoculations, appropriate Pst DC3000 strains were grown overnight in 10 ml of NYGB medium supplemented with antibiotics at 28°C. Cultures were washed with 10 mm MgCl2 and leaves were infiltrated on the abaxial surface with a needleless 1-ml syringe. Plants were placed 24 h before inoculation in a room at 22 ± 1°C under a 16/8 h photoperiod inside a closed translucid propagator at saturating humidity. Leaves were wounded with a hemostat, twice per half-leaf. Combined ACC/MJ treatment and its control was done by floating detached leaves in Petri dishes with either a solution containing 1 mm ACC and 50 μm MJ or water. For B. cinerea symptom scoring the diameter of the lesions was measured 3 days after inoculation, and three size populations were defined: small, diameter ≤3.5 mm; medium, 3.5 mm <diameter <6.5 mm; large, diameter ≥6.5 mm. This scoring also reflected the aspect and severity of necrotic lesions. For measurement of fungal growth, genomic DNA was extracted from infected leaves according to CITATION. Real-time PCR amplification was performed with B. cinereaβ-tubulin primers AFP24 and AFP25 described by CITATION on an iCycler Optical System according to the manufacturer's instructions (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA, USA). A standard curve was established with DNA isolated from fungal spores. Multiplication of P. syringae pv. tomato strains in Arabidopsis leaves was determined as described in CITATION. For ion leakage measurements, six 6-mm diameter leaf disks were collected from the infiltrated area and thoroughly rinsed in bidistilled water for 30 min before being floated under gentle agitation on 6 ml water for 17 h. Conductivity was measured with a B-173 conductivity meter (Horiba, Kyoto, Japan). Each data point (three replicates) was collected from nine plants. Ribonucleic acid was isolated from frozen leaves with the TRIzol Reagent (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA). One microgram of RNA was reverse-transcribed using the SuperScript II Reverse Transcriptase (Invitrogen) and oligodinucleotides (oligo-dT). Quantitative RT-PCR was performed on 40 ng cDNA with the Mastermix Plus (SYBR green I; Eurogentec, Seraing, Belgium). Amplification of plant β-tubulin transcripts (derived from gene At5g62700) was used as a reference, and the non-treated plant sample was used as reference for relative quantification of PLP gene expression. The gene-specific primers pairs used for the PCR are (from 5′ to 3′): PLP2, PLP2F GTAGCTGGTTGGGGACTATTGA, PLP2R CGGTAGCGATATCAACAGAAGC; PLP6, PLP6F CTTGTGTTGTCACTTGGTACGG, PLP6R CGGACGTAGTTACTCCTCCTACA; PLP7, PLP7F TCGAACTTAGGACCTTGGAGTC, PLP7R CCAGCTAACCAGTCAAGCTTCT; PLP9, PLP9F CAACGTCAAGTGTGGTGGAC, PLP9R CGTTGCACGAAACCCTCTAT; β-tubulin: β-TUBF GTGGAGCCTTACAACGCTACTT, β-TUBR GACAGCAAGTCACACCAGACAT. The PCR amplification was performed with an iCycler Optical System (Bio-Rad) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Total soluble protein was extracted from leaves in 50 mm Tris-HCl pH 7.5, 15 mmβ-mercaptoethanol, 2.5 mm CaCl2 buffer with a glass bead grinder. Before use in protein blot analysis, PLP2 antiserum was pre-incubated overnight with an acetonic powder of untreated Col-0 leaves to eliminate aspecific signals. Detection was realized with the Supersignal West Pico Chemiluminescent Substrate (Pierce, Rockford, IL, USA). Protein loading was checked by Coomassie Blue staining of membranes. The full-length coding region of PLP2 cDNA was obtained by RT-PCR amplification on RNA from Alternaria-infected leaves. The cDNA was cloned in the pGEX-KG vector (Pharmacia, Piscataway, NJ, USA).Escherichia coli BL-21-G612 were transformed with the construct, and production of soluble GST–PLP2 fusion protein was induced before capture on glutathione-agarose beads. Washed beads were incubated with thrombin to release PLP2. Fifty micrograms of purified PLP2 protein were emulsified with Freund's complete adjuvant for the first injection to rabbits and with incomplete adjuvant every 2 weeks for the four following injections. The first injection was intramuscular, whereas the next ones were subcutaneous. One week after each boost immunization, serum was collected and checked for titer and specificity. For phospholipase and galactolipase assays, substrates were 1-palmitoyl-2-linoleoyl-phosphatidylcholine or phosphatidylethanolamine (Sigma, St Louis, MO, USA) and galactolipids purified from Arabidopsis leaves, respectively. A total lipid extract was prepared from young Arabidopsis leaves essentially according to CITATION. The lipid extract was resuspended in chloroform/methanol (2:1) and separated on thin layer chromatography (TLC Silicagel G; Merck, Darmstadt, Germany) in acetone/benzene/water (91:30:8) solvent. Lipid spots were visualized by spraying the plate with 0.01% primulin in 80% acetone. The MGDG and DGDG migrate at Rm 0.75 and 0.44, respectively, and were desorbed from silica by adding successively 0.4 ml water, 2 ml methanol and 2 ml chloroform. After vortexing, the organic phase was washed with 1.4 ml water containing 0.2 m H3PO4, 1 m KCl, dried and stored under nitrogen at −20°C. The purity and quantity of lipids were verified by analysis of their FA content by gas chromatography. For enzymatic assays, 160 nmol of phospho- or galactolipids were dried under a N2 stream, and emulsified in 0.05% Triton X-100 by sonication. The enzyme assay mixture containing substrates (200 μm) and protein extract in 50 mm Tris-HCl, 3 mm CaCl2 buffer was incubated in a final volume of 800 μl for 1 h at 30°C. The reaction was stopped with 400 μl chloroform/methanol (2:1, v/v) containing heptadecanoic acid (C17:0) as an internal standard. Lipids from the chloroform phase were separated by TLC in chloroform/methanol/water (65:25:4) after PC and PE incubations and in hexane/diethylether/acetic acid (70:30:1) for galactolipid incubations. Lipid spots were visualized by spraying the plate with 0.01% primulin in 80% acetone. Free fatty acid (FFA) spots were scraped off and methylated by adding 1 ml of sulfuric acid (2.5%) in methanol and heating at 80°C for 90 min. Methylated FAs were extracted by adding successively 1 ml NaCl solution (0.9%) and 1 ml hexane. Quantitative separation of individual methylated FAs was performed on a Varian CP3900 gas chromatograph equipped with a CP-Wax 52CB column. To generate PLP2-silenced lines, a 350 bp PLP2-specific fragment (nucleotides 298 to 646) was cloned as an inverted repeat in the pUCAP-intron vector. pUCAP-intron derives from pUCAP (CITATION) and contains the first intron of the polynucleotide phosphorylase gene; it was provided by J. Gualberto (IBMP, Strasbourg). The PLP2 fragment was cloned in antisense or sense orientation upstream or downstream of the intron, respectively. The cassette containing the PLP2 hairpin construct downstream of the CaMV 35S promoter was excised by AscI/PacI digestion and cloned in the pBINPlus vector (CITATION). To obtain PLP2-overexpressing lines, the PLP2 open reading frame (ORF) was cloned by Gateway (Invitrogen) recombination in the pK2GW7 vector (VIB, Gent, Belgium) downstream of the CaMV 35S promoter. To generate PLP2–GUS reporter lines, a PCR fragment (from −1783 to −47 bp before ATG) was fused to the GUS ORF present in the pBI101 vector (CITATION). All binary vector constructs were mobilized into the GV3101 strain of A. tumefaciens and used to transform Arabidopsis Col-0 plants by the floral dip method (CITATION). For pathogen resistance experiments, homozygous T2 plants were used and GUS plant experiments were performed on mixed homo- and heterozygote T2 populations. For histochemical staining of GUS activity, detached leaves were washed twice in a solution containing 50 mm sodium phosphate buffer pH 7, 0.5 mm ferrocyanide, 0.5 mm ferricyanide and 0.1% Triton X-100. Leaves were then vacuum infiltrated for 10 min with the same solution supplemented with 1.6 mm X-Gluc substrate before incubation at 37°C for several hours. After appropriate staining, chlorophyll was removed by washing leaves three times in 75% ethanol. The PLP2 coding sequence was cloned by Gateway (Invitrogen) recombination reactions into the pK7FWG2 vector (VIB), upstream of the eGFP. The construct was transformed into Col-0 plants. Leaf sectors of T2 transformants expressing PLP2–eGFP protein were observed with a Zeiss LSM510 confocal microscope.
