!~ABS~!   The closely related proteins AtFH4 and AtFH8 represent the group Ie clade of Arabidopsis formin homologues. The subcellular localization of these proteins and their ability to affect the actin cytoskeleton were examined.  AtFH4 protein activity was identified using fluorimetric techniques. Interactions between Arabidopsis profilin isoforms and AtFH4 were assayed in vitro and in vivo using pull‐down assays and yeast‐2‐hybrid. The subcellular localization of group Ie formins was observed with indirect immunofluorescence (AtFH4) and an ethanol‐inducible green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion construct (AtFH8).  AtFH4 protein affected actin dynamics in vitro, and yeast‐2‐hybrid assays suggested isoform‐specific interactions with the actin‐binding protein profilin in vivo. Indirect immunofluorescence showed that AtFH4 localized specifically to the cell membrane at borders between adjoining cells. Expression of an AtFH8 fusion protein resulted in GFP localization to cell membrane zones, similar to AtFH4. Furthermore, aberrant expression of AtFH8 resulted in the inhibition of root hair elongation.  Taken together, these data suggest that the group Ie formins act with profilin to regulate actin polymerization at specific sites associated with the cell membrane. 
!~RES~! Full‐length group Ie Arabidopsis formins AtFH4 and AtFH8 were cloned by PCR amplification from cDNA and library screening, respectively. Sequencing of the transcripts confirmed that AtFH4 and AtFH8 share a high level of sequence identity (71% amino acid identity; 80% similarity), a higher level of identity than any other subset of group I formins (see Fig. 1a). Previous attempts to classify plant formins were based on comparisons between FH2 domain sequences (Deeks et al., 2002; Cvrckováet al., 2004b; Favery et al., 2004). Figure 1a shows a phylogeny produced using full‐length group I sequences, including the variable N‐terminus domains that are possibly required for localization and regulation. The topology of the dendrogram is similar to that of a previously published tree based solely upon FH2 domain comparison (Cvrckováet al., 2004b); in particular, the highly supported grouping of sequences previously classified as subclades Ic and Ie (i.e. the group containing AtFH4 and AtFH8) has been recovered.  [[FIGURE]] In addition to retaining FH1 and FH2 domains at their C‐terminus, both isoforms also contain a novel N‐terminus region encompassing a cell membrane signal sorting sequence and transmembrane domain (Fig. 1b). The sequence bridging the gap between the transmembrane domain and the FH1 domain is unique to AtFH4 and AtFH8 (residues 100–238 and 98–226 of AtFH4 and 8, respectively; Fig. 1b). Approximately one‐third of this linker sequence is also conserved at the very N‐terminus of the remaining Arabidopsis group Ie member, AtFH7 (Fig. 1a).  The FH2 domains of formins are known to affect actin dynamics by enhancing F‐actin nucleation (Pruyne et al., 2002; Sagot et al., 2002b; Kovar et al., 2003; Ingouff et al., 2005). Assays to measure the bulk in vitro rate of actin polymerization recorded such activity as a reduction in lag phase and as an increase in the rate of polymerization, as the multiplication of available filament ends produced via nucleation accelerated the accumulation of F‐actin. Analysis of actin polymerization in the presence and absence of 1 µm AtFH4(ΔTM) (containing the AtFH4 FH2 domain; Fig. 1b) by measurement of pyrene fluorescence showed that AtFH4 significantly reduced the reaction lag phase and increased the slope of the polymerization curve (Fig. 2).  [[FIGURE]] Interaction with the small actin‐binding protein profilin via the FH1 domain is essential for the actin‐nucleating activity of the FH2 domain in vivo (Sagot et al., 2002a), and for the partial capping behaviour of some formins in vitro (Kovar et al., 2003). Two isoforms of Arabidopsis profilin were cloned in order to assess AtFH4–profilin interactions. PFN2 is a relatively highly and widely expressed Arabidopsis profilin isoform (Christensen et al., 1996; Huang et al., 1996), while PFN3 is restricted to gametophytic tissues (Christensen et al., 1996; Huang et al., 1996). Both profilins were expressed as GST fusions, and glutathione beads coated with GST–profilin and GST alone were incubated with AtFH4(ΔTM) and the FH2 domain of AtFH4. The AtFH4(ΔTM) fragment associated with GST–profilin‐coated beads but not beads coated with GST alone (see Fig. 3a). The AtFH4 FH2 domain fragment was not pulled down by profilin‐coated beads, suggesting that the profilin interaction domain is contained within the N‐terminus region that encompasses the FH1 motif.  [[FIGURE]] Profilin–formin interactions can also be readily detected in vivo by the yeast‐2‐hybrid system (Manseau et al., 1996; Evangelista et al., 1997; Imamura et al., 1997; Banno & Chua, 2000). Arabidopsis profilins PFN2 and PFN3 and the formin fragment AtFH4(ΔTM) were cloned into yeast‐2‐hybrid vectors pAS2‐1GW and pACT2GW. Of the two isoforms, only PFN2 was capable of activating ADE2 expression in combination with AtFH4(ΔTM) (Fig. 2). This raises the intriguing possibility that plant formins in vivo may be isoform selective.  Formin function in vivo is highly dependent upon subcellular localization (Petersen et al., 1998; Pruyne et al., 2004). The regional accumulation of formin protein is thought to influence local actin dynamics and contribute to the formation of organized F‐actin arrays. To observe AtFH4 localization, a 55‐kDa fragment of the C‐terminus of AtFH4 fused to a His‐tag was used to raise polyclonal antibodies from mice (Figs 1b and 4a). Before injection, the identity of this protein was confirmed using matrix‐assisted laser desorption/ionization–time of flight (MALDI‐TOF) analysis. Probing of a Western blot of Arabidopsis tissues showed that the antibodies isolated from mice bound stringently to a single species of approximately 84 kDa (Fig. 4b) from a wide variety of Arabidopsis organs (Fig. 4c). AtFH4 and AtFH8 are the only group I formins predicted to have a molecular weight of 84 kDa.  [[FIGURE]] Sections of Arabidopsis freeze‐substituted tissue stained with the anti‐AtFH4 antibody were observed using confocal indirect fluorescence microscopy. Control observations using secondary antibodies were made to confirm the specificity of the anti‐AtFH4 antibody (data not shown). Figure 5a(i–vi) shows groupings of leaf and cotyledon mesophyll cells with AtFH4 localized to cell‐to‐cell contact points. In some examples, AtFH4 was constricted to a single boundary between two tightly coupled neighbours (see Fig. 5aii and v). However, in most groups of cells showing AtFH4 staining, AtFH4 could be observed at multiple cell‐to‐cell junctions, showing that the localization of AtFH4 was not restricted to the mid‐plane of the most recent cell division. A weak diffuse signal could also be observed in the cytoplasm of some cells. AtFH4 was also localized to the boundaries of cuboid cells of the leaf and cotyledon petioles (Fig. 5b), and was particularly enriched at transverse cell‐to‐cell contacts.  [[FIGURE]] The extent of conservation between AtFH4 and AtFH8 suggested that AtFH8 should have a similar subcellular localization pattern to AtFH4. To test this hypothesis, GFP was fused to the C‐terminus of a truncated fragment of AtFH8 that lacked the FH2 domain [AtFH8(ΔFH2)]. The FH2 domain is essential for actin nucleation and capping activity (Pruyne et al., 2002; Sagot et al., 2002b) and MAP/microtubule interactions (Ishizaki et al., 2001; Wen et al., 2004) and was consequently removed to minimize cytoskeletal disruption, and to determine whether, consistent with other formins, the N‐terminus of AtFH8 contains the majority of domains required for localization. GFP fluorescence within mesophyll cells from plants transformed with the ethanol‐inducible AtFH8(ΔFH2) construct could not be reliably observed because of the intense autofluorescence of chloroplasts; however, fluorescence could be observed in cortical root cells. Figure 5c shows AtFH8(ΔFH2) enriched along transverse cell walls in a similar manner to AtFH4 distribution in cuboid cells (Fig. 5b). Diffuse AtFH8(ΔFH2) could also be observed in the cytoplasm.  An increase in GFP fluorescence concomitant with ethanol treatment suggests that the expression of AtFH8(ΔFH2) is enhanced by ethanol induction. Long‐term expression of the AtFH8(ΔFH2) construct caused the growth arrest of populations of root trichoblasts (Fig. 6a). This phenotype was observed in multiple transgenic lines, and was studied in detail in two lines originating from independent transformation experiments. In all cases where root hair reduction was observed, only a part of the root system of the AtFH8(ΔFH2) plants appeared to be affected, which was consistent with the somewhat ‘patchy’ expression pattern observed also by fluorescence microscopy of induced roots (see Fig. 5c).  The frequency of seedlings with a reduced amount of root hairs significantly differed between the AtFH8(ΔFH2) transgenic lines and any of the empty vector controls (P < 0.05 by t‐test), while differences between any two controls, as well as between the two AtFH8(ΔFH2) lines, were insignificant. Ethanol‐induced AtFH8(ΔFH2) plants differed significantly from their noninduced counterparts and from induced controls (P < 0.03 by t‐test). Detailed quantitative measurements of the percentage of root length exhibiting reduced root hair development for one of the AtFH8(ΔFH2) lines (Fig. 6c) also revealed significant differences [P < 0.05 by Kruskal–Wallis analysis of variance (ANOVA) by ranks] amongst the four plant groups studied (induced transformants, noninduced transformants, induced controls and noninduced controls). Application of ethanol was found to have a significant effect on the AtFH8(ΔFH2) transgenic line but not on the control line (P < 0.05 by Mann–Whitney U‐test). Overall these data show that root hair growth arrest correlates with AtFH8(ΔFH2) expression.  Root hairs pass through distinct stages of development including patterning, bulge formation, and elongation. Root hair bulge formation is known to be actin independent, while the tightly focused tip growth of root hair elongation requires F‐actin. Detailed observation of trichoblasts within AtFH8(ΔFH2) affected areas showed that root hairs appeared to be arrested predominantly at or even before bulge growth (Fig. 7). Many root hairs in affected zones can therefore progress through the earliest stages of development but are unable to achieve the transition to F‐actin co‐ordinated tip growth. 
!~MM~! The Columbia 0 (Col‐0) ecotype of Arabidopsis thaliana used for fixation and antibody staining was grown in 16 h light (23°C): 8 h darkness (18°C) on 1/2 Murashige & Skoog plant salt mixture (MS) medium with 0.8% plant agar (Duchefa, Amsterdam, the Netherlands). For construction of transgenic plants expressing ethanol‐inducible constructs, an Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia derivative homozygous for the integrated 35S:AlcR construct (encoding the ethanol‐dependent transcription factor) and AlcA:GUS expression marker (Deveaux et al., 2003) was used (seeds kindly provided by L. Bogre, Royal Holloway University of London, Egham, UK).   Arabidopsis AtFH4 (At1g24150) was amplified using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) from cDNA derived from root tissue. The resulting product was cloned into pGEM‐T (Promega, Madison, WI, USA). The FH2 domain of AtFH4 (codons 345–763) and a subfragment of AtFH4 lacking the transmembrane domain called AtFH4(ΔTM) (codons 99–763) were amplified from the complete cDNA clone using primers containing Gateway (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA) AttB1 and AttB2 recombination sites. Both fragments were cloned into pDONR207 using a BP enzyme mix (Invitrogen). The FH2 domain of AtFH4 was transferred to the His‐tag expression vector pGAT4 (Ketelaar et al., 2004) using an LR enzyme mix (Invitrogen). AtFH4(ΔTM) was transferred to the Gal4‐binding domain vector pAS2‐1GW and the GAL4‐activating domain vector pACT2‐GW for yeast‐2‐hybrid analysis.   Arabidopsis AtFH8 (At1g70140) cDNA was assembled from two overlapping partial cDNA clones, one of them obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Centre (ABRC) collection (EST 117J13T7), and the other isolated from a whole‐plant cDNA library (Elledge et al., 1991, kindly provided by R. W. Davis, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA) by a PCR‐based screening method (Rosel et al., 2000; F. Puta, Charles University, Prague, pers. comm.). A fragment corresponding to codons 1–295 of AtFH8 was amplified by PCR and cloned in‐frame in front of plant‐optimized soluble modified green fluorescent protein (GFP) (Davis & Vierstra, 1998) in pGreenAlcA (Ait‐Ali et al., 2003; plasmid kindly donated by J. Doonan, John Innes Centre, Norwich, UK), a pGreen‐derived small binary vector carrying the ethanol‐inducible AlcA promoter; this construct is further referred to as AtFH8(ΔFH2). A control plasmid carrying only GFP under the AlcA promoter was produced in parallel. Profilin isoforms PFN2 (At4g29350) and PFN3 (At4g29340) were amplified using PCR from cDNA derived from flowers and cloned into pDONR207 before being recombined into pAS2‐1GW and pACT2‐GW.  Recombinant proteins were expressed as either N‐terminus His‐tag fusions using the vector pGAT4 (Ketelaar et al., 2004) or as N‐terminus glutathione S‐transferase (GST) fusions using pGEX‐4T‐1. Fusion proteins were expressed in Escherichia coli strain BL21 DE3 pLysS or BL21 DE3 pLysS Rosetta 2. Cultures were grown to optical density at 600 nm (OD600) 0.8 and induced using isopropyl‐beta‐D‐thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) (final concentration 1 mm) at 37°C for 2.5 h or overnight at 14°C.  Cells expressing His‐tagged fusion proteins were pelleted, resuspended in binding buffer (300 mm NaCl, 50 mm sodium phosphate and 10 mm imidazole) and disrupted using a freeze–thaw cycle. After centrifugation and filtration to remove cell debris, the supernatant was mixed with His‐Select nickel affinity gel (Sigma‐Aldrich, St Louis, MO, USA), washed, and eluted using 250 mm imidazole. Buffer exchange to phosphate‐buffered saline (PBS) for mouse injection was performed using a concentrator column (Viva Science, Hannover, Germany).  Cells expressing GST‐tagged proteins were resuspended in PBS, pH 7.3, and lysed using a freeze–thaw cycle. Cell supernatant was incubated with glutathione sepharose 4B (Amersham, Chalfont St Giles, UK) and washed three times with PBS.  The formin fragment AtFH4(ΔTM) was dialysed against G‐buffer (2 mm Tris‐HCl, pH 8, 0.5 mm dithiothreitol (DTT), 0.2 mm CaCl2 and 0.2 mm ATP). After buffer exchange the protein was stored at +4°C. Polymerization assays were performed using 4 µm actin in G‐buffer with 10% of monomers pyrenelated. Polymerization was induced by the addition of 10 × KME [500 mm KCl, 10 mm MgSO4, 10 mm ethyleneglycoltetraacetic acid (EGTA) and 100 mm imidazole, pH 6.5]. Pyrene fluorescence was monitored using a PTI spectrofluorimeter (Photon Technologies, Monmouth Junction, NJ, USA) equipped with a rotating multisample turret. For a general description of this method, see Mullins & Machesky (2000).  Glutathione beads coated with 100 µg of protein were incubated with 25 µg of fragments of AtFH4 in pull‐down buffer [50 mm Tris‐HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mm NaCl, 5 mm ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA), and 0.1% nonidet p40] for 30 min at room temperature. Beads were then washed four times with pull‐down buffer and resuspended in sodium dodecyl sulphate–polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS‐PAGE) loading buffer.  Yeast was transformed using lithium acetate (manufacturer's instructions for Match‐Maker; Clontech, Palo Alto, CA, USA). Constructs derived from pAS2‐1GW were introduced into Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain Y187 (for interaction testing) and AH109 (for autoactivation tests) while pACT2‐GW constructs were transformed into strain AH109. Transformants were selected on minimal synthetic defined (SD) media lacking tryptophan and leucine, respectively. Plasmids derived from binding domain vector pAS2‐1GW were tested for autoactivation of HIS3 and ADE2 nutrient selection genes, and for autoactivation of lacZ and mel1 reporter genes. Strains of opposite mating type were incubated together on yeast extract–peptone–dextrose–adenine (YPDA) agar medium for 48 h at room temperature and diploids were selected using SD medium without tryptophan or leucine. Diploid lines were assessed for bait and prey interactions by plating on selective SD medium lacking either histidine or adenine. Assays for lacZ and mel1 activity were also performed using X‐gal (Melford, Ipswich, UK) and X‐alpha‐gal (Glycosynth, Warrington, UK) substrates.  Five‐week‐old mice were injected three times over a 6‐wk period with 100 µg of recombinant protein. Ten days after the final injection, serum was collected and stored at −80°C in the presence of 0.02% sodium azide. Antibodies were tested against recombinant protein and protein extracted from various Arabidopsis tissues blotted onto nitrocellulose (BDH/VWR, Poole, UK). Primary antibody was diluted 1 : 500 in TBST (Tris, NaCl and tritonX‐100) with 2% milk powder. Secondary antibodies used for all Western blots were anti‐mouse polyclonal antibodies raised in sheep and conjugated with horse radish peroxidase (Amersham Biosciences, Chalfont St. Giles, UK). Peroxidase activity was visualized using the ECL Western Blot Analysis System (Amersham Biosciences).  Soil‐grown plants of the parent Arabidopsis line were transformed by the standard floral dip technique (Clough & Bent, 1998), using the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101/pSoup to introduce the binary plasmids carrying either AtFH8(ΔFH2) or free GFP expression cassettes into the plant tissues. Basta‐resistant transformants were selected from the progeny of transformed (T0) plants. Detached leaves of T1 transformants were checked microscopically for GFP fluorescence after overnight induction by soaking in 0.5% ethanol in water; only very weak fluorescence was seen in plants containing the GFP‐fused truncated AtFH8(ΔFH2) protein. Seeds from positive plants were collected and used for subsequent experiments.  Plant tissue was ground using a pestle and mortar in the presence of liquid nitrogen. Powdered tissue was resuspended in 15% trichloroacetic acid (TCA) and centrifuged at 16 000g for 3 min. The protein pellet was re‐suspended in 80% acetone and 50 mm Tris‐HCl, pH 8, and pelleted at 16 000g. This wash step was repeated twice before performing a final wash with 100 mm Tris‐HCl, pH 6.8. After centrifugation and decanting of the supernatant the pellet was resuspended in 2 × SDS‐PAGE loading buffer.  Columbia seedlings were cryofixed 7 days after germination (DAG) by immersion in liquid propane and freeze‐substituted in acetone with 1% glutaraldehyde and 10 mm DTT. Freeze substitution was carried out over 12‐h periods, the first at −90°C, followed by 12‐h periods at −60°C and −30°C. Samples were infiltrated with butylmethylmetacrylate (BMM; Baskin et al., 1992). Polymerization of BMM resin was induced by exposure to UV light (50 W) for 48 h. Sections of tissue 1.5 µm thick were mounted onto Biorad goldcoat slides (Biorad, Hercules, CA, USA). BMM was removed from the samples by washing two times for 10 min in acetone, followed by a wash in PBS. Samples were stained using a 1/100 dilution of anti‐AtFH4 antibody in PBS with 1% bovine serum albumin (BSA), and anti‐mouse secondary antibodies raised in goat and conjugated to Alexa Fluor 488 (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR, USA). Control observations using secondary antibodies only were also performed. Samples were observed using a Zeiss LSM510 META confocal microscope, and images were processed using Adobe Photoshop software.  For observation of live cells expressing ethanol‐inducible constructs, plates with transgenic seedlings were exposed to vapours above ethanol solution in a closed glass dessicator for 16 h before microscopic observation. Ethanol concentration was optimized in preliminary experiments using plants with the control AlcA::GFP construct; for 5–10‐d‐old plants, 10–20% (volume/volume) ethanol was found to produce strong GFP expression in most seedlings while causing only minimum tissue damage resulting in autofluorescence. An Olympus Provis microscope equipped with standard fluorescence and phase‐contrast optics and a video camera was used for observation and documentation.  For quantitative analysis of root hair development, overlapping photographs covering the whole root system of each seedling were obtained at low magnification (×6 objective). Photographs were assembled using Corel Photo Paint software. For each seedling, relative lengths of the fractions of root system exhibiting either ‘normal’ or ‘reduced root hair’ phenotype (as shown in the Results section in Figs 6 and 7) were measured with the aid of imagej software (National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA). Statistical evaluation of the results was performed using the statistica package (Statsoft, Tulsa, OK, USA).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
