!~ABS~! Plants possess a single gene for the structurally related HETEROCHROMATIN PROTEIN1 (HP1), termed LIKE-HP1 (LHP1). We investigated the subnuclear localization, binding properties, and dynamics of LHP1 proteins in Arabidopsis thaliana cells. Transient expression assays showed that tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) LHP1 fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP; Sl LHP1-GFP) and Arabidopsis LHP1 (At LHP1-GFP) localized to heterochromatic chromocenters and showed punctuated distribution within the nucleus; tomato but not Arabidopsis LHP1 was also localized within the nucleolus. Mutations of aromatic cage residues that recognize methyl K9 of histone H3 abolished their punctuated distribution and localization to chromocenters. Sl LHP1-GFP plants displayed cell type–dependent subnuclear localization. The diverse localization pattern of tomato LHP1 did not require the chromo shadow domain (CSD), whereas the chromodomain alone was insufficient for localization to chromocenters; a nucleolar localization signal was identified within the hinge region. Fluorescence recovery after photobleaching showed that Sl LHP1 is a highly mobile protein whose localization and retention are controlled by distinct domains; retention at the nucleolus and chromocenters is conferred by the CSD. Our results imply that LHP1 recruitment to chromatin is mediated, at least in part, through interaction with methyl K9 and that LHP1 controls different nuclear processes via transient binding to its nuclear sites.
!~RES~! The Sl LHP1 gene encodes 399 amino acids with a calculated molecular mass of ∼44 kD. The protein contains a CD (amino acids 93 to 142) and a CSD (amino acids 339 to 396), which are characteristic features of the HP1 protein family. Sl LHP1 shares high amino acid sequence similarity with Arabidopsis LHP1/TFL2, particularly within the CD and CSD regions (CITATION). We examined the ability of Sl LHP1 to complement the lhp1 mutant (CITATION). This mutant is a T-DNA insertion in the promoter region of the LHP1 gene, which leads to a significant reduction in LHP1 transcription and consequently to altered leaf morphology (small, curly leaves) and early flowering; lhp1/tfl2 mutants also display terminal flowers (CITATION) and alteration in glucosinolate levels, defense-related secondary metabolites (CITATION). Sl LHP1 fused to GFP under the control of the 35S promoter was introduced into lhp1, and several plants showing phenotypic complementation of lhp1 coupled with expression of Sl LHP1-GFP were isolated. Analysis of T2 progeny revealed cosegregation of the wild-type phenotype with the GFP signal; GFP-positive, phenotypically wild-type progeny were cosegregated in a Mendelian manner (3:1, wild type:lhp1). In these plants, the Sl LHP1-GFP transgene underwent strong silencing in subsequent generations, reverting to the phenotype conferred by lhp1. Together, our results support functional similarities between the Arabidopsis and tomato LHP1 proteins. H3-K9 methylation is a key epigenetic mark controlling chromatin structure, at least in part through the recruitment of HP1 proteins. Glutathione S-transferase (GST) pull-down assays have previously shown the capability of Arabidopsis LHP1 to bind K9-methylated histone H3 (CITATION). We analyzed the ability of Sl LHP1 to bind methylated H3-K9 isolated from tobacco leaves. Primarily, Sl LHP1 was predicted to bind methylated H3-K9 through the CD, because the aromatic cage residues that recognize methyl K9 (CITATION; CITATION) are conserved in Sl LHP1 (see Figure 3B below). GST pull-down assays were performed with glutathione–Sepharose containing GST alone, GST-Sl LHP1, GST-CD, and GST-CSD. As shown in Figure 1A, the tobacco leaf acid-soluble fraction contained three polypeptides that reacted with anti-H3 (lane 1). GST-Sl LHP1 (lane 3) bound two of the three histone H3 polypeptides, an interaction that required the CD (lane 5) but not the CSD (lane 4). In addition, histone H3 methylated in vitro by SUV39H1-H320R (CITATION) was bound by GST-Sl LHP1 but not by GST alone (Figure 1B). [[FIGURE]] Based on the ability of Sl LHP1 to bind in vitro to H3 methylated at K9, we next investigated whether its subnuclear localization coincides with that of methylated H3-K9. For subnuclear localization study of Sl LHP1, we selected Arabidopsis cells because of their high degree of resolution in analyzing subnuclear localization and the ease with which one can distinguish chromocenters in Arabidopsis nuclei; there are 10 chromocenters, most of which are positioned at the nuclear periphery (CITATION). Transient expression into Arabidopsis protoplasts showed a diversified distribution of Sl LHP1-GFP in Arabidopsis nuclei: it was localized to several (7 to 10) large spots at the nuclear periphery, which are likely to be chromocenters enriched with dimethylated H3-K9. However, Sl LHP1-GFP was also dispersed in a speckle-like pattern within the nucleus and was found within the nucleolus (Figure 2A), a nuclear compartment engaged in the transcription of rRNA genes. Hence, the subnuclear localization of Sl LHP1 in Arabidopsis is not limited to sites known to be methylated at H3-K9. Notably, the distribution of Sl LHP1 at chromocenters was uneven, as it tends to occupy the pericentromeric region, leaving the center as a black hole (Figure 2A, arrows in panels 3 and 4). Likewise, Sl LHP1 was localized at specific nucleolar compartments, excluding sphere-shaped sites, which are reminiscent of fibrillar centers (CITATION). For comparison, we transiently expressed At LHP1 in Arabidopsis cells and found that its subnuclear localization generally resembled that of Sl LHP1 except for its absence from the nucleolus. Cells expressing At LHP1-GFP displayed three types of localization: punctuated, chromocentric, or both (Figure 2B). Localization at chromocenters was further demonstrated using a confocal microscope equipped with a laser diode system capable of 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) detection. As shown in Figure 3A, both Sl LHP1-GFP and At LHP1-GFP were colocalized to the intensely DAPI-stained chromocenters. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Mutations of aromatic cage residues (W114G/W117G in Sl LHP1; W132G in At LHP1) (Figure 3B) that recognize methyl K9 (CITATION; CITATION) abolished the punctuated distribution within the nucleus as well as the localization to chromocenters of both At LHP1 and Sl LHP1 (Figure 3C). In these assays, the mutated form of Sl LHP1 was localized almost exclusively to the nucleolus, whereas that of At LHP1 was evenly dispersed within the nucleus (Figure 3C), implying that localization at these subnuclear domains is mediated through interaction with methylated K9 of histone H3. Sl LHP1-GFP in the lhp1 mutant background was localized exclusively to the nucleus, showing different subnuclear distribution patterns in different cell types (Figure 4A). In guard cells, Sl LHP1-GFP was localized to fewer large spots at the nuclear periphery (chromocenters) and dispersed within the nucleus in a speckle-like manner; no localization was detected within the nucleolus. In trichomes, having large endoreduplicated nuclei (CITATION), Sl LHP1-GFP was localized within the nucleolus and dispersed unevenly within the nucleus; localization to chromocenters could not be verified microscopically. In mesophyll cells, Sl LHP1-GFP was dispersed mainly in a speckle-like manner throughout the nucleus. These localization patterns indicate the dynamic nature of Sl LHP1 subnuclear distribution and its cell type dependence. [[FIGURE]] Localization of Sl LHP1 at chromocenters was verified by immunolabeling/fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) assay. Fixed nuclei were first immunolabeled with anti-GFP, followed by FISH with tetramethylrhodamine-5-dUTP–labeled centromeric repeats (CEN180). A small fraction of nuclei showed that Sl LHP1-GFP was closely associated with CEN180 (Figure 4B), confirming localization at chromocenters. To examine the importance of DNA and histone H3 methylation for LHP1 subnuclear localization, we transiently expressed Sl LHP1-GFP and At LHP1-GFP in several mutants: ddm1-2, a mutant in the SWI2/SNF2 chromatin-remodeling gene (CITATION; CITATION); met1-1, a mutant in the DNA Methyltransferase1 (MET1) gene (CITATION); kyp-2, a mutant in the Kryptonite H3-K9 methyltransferase (KYP) gene (CITATION); and suvh2, a mutant in a histone methyltransferase (SUVH2) gene whose mutation caused a strong reduction in histone methylation (CITATION). Although all of these mutants have reduced H3-K9 methylation (Figure 5A) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), ddm1-2 and met1-1 also display significant reductions in DNA methylation (CITATION; CITATION). In all mutants examined, the subnuclear localization of Sl LHP1-GFP (Figure 5B) and At LHP1-GFP (data not shown) was similar to that of wild-type cells. Similarly, mutations in the SET-domain genes MEDEA and CURLY LEAF (CITATION) did not affect the localization of Sl LHP1-GFP to the various nuclear domains (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] To determine the Sl LHP1 protein region(s) responsible for its nuclear and subnuclear localization, we divided the protein into several portions, each fused with GFP at its C terminus (see scheme in Figure 6A). Using PSORT II software, three putative nuclear localization signals (NLS1 to NLS3) were identified. NLS1 is located at the CD (RRRR, 99 to 102), and the other two are located at the hinge region: a bipartite NLS2 (RKRKFGATQTHPMIKQQRR, 150 to 170) and NLS3 (KKRK, 281 to 284). Transient expression into Arabidopsis protoplasts showed (Figure 6B) that the localization of Sl LHP1(1–306), containing all NLSs but lacking the CSD, was indistinguishable from that of the intact protein (1 to 399). The C-terminal part (202 to 399), containing NLS3 and the CSD, was evenly localized within the nucleus, excluding the nucleolus. Further analysis showed that the N-terminal region containing NLS1 (1 to 103) was dispersed both in the cytoplasm and within the nucleus in a pattern similar to that displayed by GFP alone (data not shown), suggesting that the putative NLS1 is nonfunctional. This was further supported by the behavior of the protein region containing the NLS1-CD (90 to 145), in which the GFP signal showed a distribution pattern similar to that of the N terminus (1 to 103). These results suggest that neither the CD alone nor the CSD has site-specific nuclear targeting properties. The protein portion containing the CD and NLS2 (90 to 171) was localized to the nucleus, showing a preference for the nucleolus and, to some extent, to chromocenters, but it failed to show the speckle-like distribution within the nucleus. Finally, we showed that the region encompassing residues 141 to 399 retained the nucleolus-targeting localization property and was also localized at fewer, tiny, yet unidentified nuclear bodies. Together, our results suggest that the protein portion between amino acids 141 and 171, corresponding to the bipartite NLS2, possesses the nucleolar localization signal (NoLS). To verify this prediction, we next fused this portion (141 to 171) with GFP, and after transformation, we analyzed its subnuclear distribution. The results clearly showed (Figure 6B) that this protein portion targeted the GFP signal almost exclusively to the nucleolus, indicating its function as a NoLS. [[FIGURE]] We next sought to identify the protein region(s) responsible for Sl LHP1 retention within the nucleolus and chromocenters using FRAP (CITATION). In this assay, physical interaction of Sl LHP1 with nuclear proteins would lead to stable association and, consequently, to slower FRAP (CITATION). The finding that Sl LHP1(141–399) containing the CSD, but not other Sl LHP1 truncated proteins, retained the specific intranucleolar distribution pattern as the full-length protein (Figure 7A) suggests that the CSD stabilizes the association of the protein within the nucleolus. Arabidopsis protoplasts transiently expressing full-length Sl LHP1 or its derivatives, namely Sl LHP1(141–171), Sl LHP1(141–399), and Sl LHP1(1–306), were bleached by high-powered laser pulses in a rectangular area of the nucleolus. Fluorescence recovery in the bleached area was monitored during a 40- to 50-s postbleaching period by sequential imaging scans. Sl LHP1(141–171) behaved similarly to GFP alone (CITATION); that is, it infiltrated the bleached area so fast that recovery was nearly complete during the time required to capture a single frame (∼170 ms) (Figures 7B and 7C). Generally, FRAP analysis showed that, like animal HP1 proteins (CITATION; CITATION), Sl LHP1 is a highly mobile protein that binds transiently to its chromosomal sites. The Sl LHP1 derivatives showed different rates of fluorescence recovery in the nucleolus; Sl LHP1(1–306) lacking the CSD displayed a significantly faster mobility (50% recovery time of 1.07 s) than either the full-length Sl LHP1 or Sl LHP1(141–399) (50% recovery times of 10.62 and 9.75 s, respectively) (Figures 7B and 7C). This finding suggests that the CSD functions in the positioning and stabilization of Sl LHP1 within the nucleolus. Likewise, we found that the CSD contributes to the stabilization of the Sl LHP1 association with chromocenters. FRAP at chromocenters was faster when the CSD was omitted [Sl LHP1(1–306)] compared with full-length Sl LHP1, displaying 50% recovery times of 1.43 and 8.53 s, respectively (Figures 8A and 8B; see Supplemental Videos 1 and 2 online). Together, our results suggest that the stable association of Sl LHP1 with chromocenters and within the nucleolus is largely dependent on the CSD. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) cDNA encoding LHP1 protein (clone identifier cLEC33C22 in pBluescript KS+; pBs-C22), designated Sl LHP1, was obtained from the BAC/EST Resource Center at Clemson University and fully sequenced (GenBank accession number AF428244). To generate pGEX-Sl LHP1, the Sl LHP1 DNA fragment was amplified by PCR using as a template the pBs-C22 and primers LeHP1-S (5′-CACAGGATCCAGAATGAAAGAAGGGAAAAGG-3′) and LeHP1-AS (5′-GAGAGAATTCTCGAGGCAGGCAACTCATTCAGTCGGATGG-3′). The PCR product was digested with BamHI and EcoRI and subcloned into the same sites of pGEX-2T. The DNA fragment corresponding to the CD of Sl LHP1 was amplified by PCR using pGEX-Sl LHP1 as a template (5′-GAGACCCGGGAGATCTATGAAAGAAGGGAAAAGGAAAAGCTCAAGG-3′) flanked with SmaI and BglII as a sense primer and with LHP1CD-AS flanked with the EcoRI site (5′-GAGAGAATTCTCATATCCTAACCTTCACAGCTGGCCC-3′). Similarly, the DNA fragment corresponding to the CSD was amplified by PCR using pGEX-Sl LHP1 as a template, the above-mentioned LeHP1-AS as an antisense primer, and the sense primer Sl LHP1CSD-S flanked with the BamHI site (5′-GAGAGGATCCGAGGAGCCTACACCTTCACCC-3′). The CD PCR product was digested with BglII and EcoRI, the CSD product was digested with BamHI and EcoRI, and each fragment was subcloned into BamHI and EcoRI sites of pGEX-2T. To generate Sl LHP1 full length and its derivatives fused to GFP, we amplified the various fragments by PCR followed by digestion with BamHI and SmaI and subcloning into BglII and SmaI sites of the plasmid pUC19-35S-GFP (a gift from A. Levitan and A. Danon) downstream from the 35S promoter and in frame with GFP. In all PCR procedures, we used pGEX-Sl LHP1 as a template and the following primers: for Sl LHP1(1–399), 1-S (5′-GAGAGGATCCATGAAAGAAGGGAAAAGG-3′) and 399-AS (5′-GAGACCCGGGTTCAGTCGGATGGTATCGCATA-3′); for Sl LHP1(1–306), 1-S and 306-AS (5′-CTCTCCCGGGAGCATCTTGGGTATCATCCTTC-3′); for Sl LHP1(202–399), 202-S (5′-GAGAGGATCCATGGCTACAGATCTTGTGGACAG-3′) and 399-AS; for Sl LHP1(90–171), 90-S (5′-GAGAGGATCCATGGAAGGTTTTTACGAGATTG-3′) and 171-AS (5′-CTCTCCCGGGGAAACGCCGCTGCTGCTTTATC-3′); for Sl LHP1(1–103), 1-S and 103-AS (5′-CTCTCCCGGGAGATCTAGTTCTCCTTCTCCTAAC-3′); for Sl LHP1(90–145), 90-S and 145-AS (5′-TCTCCCCGGGCTTAAGCTCTCTTCATATGC-3′); for Sl LHP1(141–399), 141-S (5′-GAGAGGATCCATGGAAGAGAGCTTGAAGTCAG-3′) and 399-AS; and for Sl LHP1(141–171), 141-S and 171-AS. To generate At LHP1 fused with GFP, the At LHP1 coding region was amplified by RT-PCR using total RNA prepared from Arabidopsis thaliana (Columbia) cauline leaves and the following primers: At LHP1SalI-S (5′-AAGTCGACAATGAAAGGGGCAAGTGG-3′) and At LHP1BglII-AS (5′-CCAGATCTGTTAAGGCGTTCGATTG-3′). The PCR product was cloned into a pGEM T-easy vector (Promega). The At LHP1 fragment was reamplified by PCR using another set of primers: AtHp1-S (5′-GAGAGATCTATGAAAGGGGCAAGTGGTG-3′) and Athp1-as (5′-CCCGGGAGGCGTTCGATTGTACTTG-3′), and the PCR product was digested with BglII and SmaI and subcloned into the same sites of pUC19-35S-GFP in-frame with GFP. pUC35S-Sl LHP1W114G/W117G-GFP was constructed by PCR using as a template pUC35S-Sl LHP1-GFP and the following two sets of primers: 1S and 145-AS, and a mutagenic primer, Sl LHP1-Bclww-S (5′-TATTTGATCAAAgGGCGTGGCgGGCCGGAGTCG-3′) and 399-AS. The PCR products were digested with BamHI/BclI and BclI/SmaI, respectively, and ligated into BglII/SmaI sites of pUC35S-GFP. To generate pUC35S-At LHP1W132G-GFP, two PCR fragments were first generated using pUC35S-At LHP1-GFP as a template, two mutagenic oligonucleotides, At LHP1w-AS (5′-GTTTCAGGCCcTCCGCGCCATTT-3′) and At LHP1w-S (5′-AAATGGCGCGGAgGGCCTGAAAC-3′), and two primers flanking the At LHP1 coding region, AtHp1-S and Athp1-as. The resulting two PCR fragments were mixed and subjected to PCR using AtHp1-S and Athp1-as as primers. The amplified DNA fragment was digested with BglII and SmaI and ligated into the same sites of pUC35S-GFP. All constructs were sequenced to ensure in-frame fusion with the GFP and used for protoplast transformation experiments. To generate transgenic plants, the 35S-Sl LHP1-GFP fragment was excised out using EcoRI and subcloned into the same site of the binary vector pPZP-111 to generate pPZP-35S-Sl LHP1-GFP, followed by transformation into Agrobacterium tumefaciens and into Arabidopsis lhp1 mutant plants (CITATION). GST fusion proteins were expressed and purified by glutathione–Sepharose essentially as described in the manufacturer's protocol (GST gene fusion system; Amersham Pharmacia Biotech), except for the use of NETN buffer (100 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, and 0.5% Nonidet P-40) instead of PBS. In vitro binding of Sl LHP1 to histone H3 was determined by the GST pull-down assay with glutathione–Sepharose containing various GST fusion proteins, as indicated in the figures, and 2% trichloroacetic acid–soluble fraction from tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) cells (CITATION), followed by immunoblotting with anti-H3 (Upstate Biotechnology). In certain experiments, GST pull-down assays were performed with calf thymus histones (Roche) or with histone H3 labeled with histone methyltransferase [GST-SUV39H1(H320R), kindly provided by T. Jenuwein] in a reaction containing 300 nCi of S-adenosyl-[methyl-14C]l-Met (25 μCi/mL; Amersham) as the methyl donor essentially as described (CITATION). Seeds of Arabidopsis mutants for ddm1-2 and met1 were kindly provided by E. Richards, for kyp-2 by S. Jacobsen, for suvh2 by G. Reuter, and for clf by J. Goodrich. The methylation mutants ddm1-2 and met1-1 were verified by DNA gel blot analysis for the digestibility of the centromeric repeats (CEN180), the Athila retroelement, and the 18S rDNA by the methylation-sensitive HpaII enzyme (CITATION; CITATION) and by the redistribution of methyl CpG binding domain proteins when transiently expressed in these mutant cells (CITATION). Arabidopsis wild-type ecotypes Columbia and Wassilewskija as well as Arabidopsis mutants were grown under short-day conditions at 20°C. Rosette leaves from 4- to 6-week-old plants were used for the isolation of protoplasts and transformation as described (http://genetics.mgh.harvard.edu/sheenweb/protocols_reg.html). After 24 h, protoplasts were stained with DAPI and inspected with a laser confocal microscope (Olympus Fluoview FV500) equipped with a laser diode system (LD405; Olympus) to detect the DAPI signal. Images were obtained using an excitation wavelength of 405/488 nm; images for DAPI, GFP, and chlorophyll signals were collected through 415/435-nm, 505/525-nm, and 630-nm filters, respectively. Nuclei were isolated from leaves as described previously (CITATION) and fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde dissolved in PBS for 15 min at room temperature, followed by washing twice with PBS. Nuclei were spread on slides, air-dried, permeabilized in cold acetone (100%) for 7 min at −20°C, and washed twice with PBS. Slides were blocked with 2% BSA in PBS for 2 h at room temperature, followed by overnight incubation at 4°C with 100 μL of primary antibody mixture containing 2 μg of anti-GFP (Roche) in 2% BSA. Slides were washed three times, 5 min each, in PBS, followed by 2 h of incubation at room temperature with secondary antibody (goat anti-rabbit IgG tagged with fluorescein isothiocyanate). Slides were washed as described above, stained with DAPI, mounted with Vectashield (Vector Laboratories), and inspected with a fluorescence microscope (Olympus) equipped with a charge-coupled device camera (Imago; Photonics). For FISH assays, slides washed as described above were fixed with 1% paraformaldehyde for 5 min, denatured with formamide, and probed with the 180-bp repeats (CEN180) labeled with tetramethylrhodamine-5-dUTP (Roche) as described (CITATION). Images were pseudocolored and merged using TILL Vision version 3.3 software. All images were processed using Adobe Photoshop software. FRAP experiments were performed using a laser confocal microscope (Olympus IX70, Fluoview FV500). Enhanced GFP images were obtained using an excitation wavelength of 488 nm, and signals were collected through a 505/525-nm filter. In the FRAP experiments, images of 196 × 96 pixels were collected at maximum speed of ∼170 ms using 1% laser power for 2 s before the bleach and up to 50 s afterwards The bleach pulse was by 100% laser power for 0.1 s in a rectangular area (∼1 μm2) of the nucleus. The relative fluorescence intensity was normalized to the nonbleached signal after subtraction of the background signal. Values are averages from at least five cells from three independent experiments. Fluorescence recovery curves were performed using Excel software (Microsoft). We determined the 50% recovery time in each experiment as the time required to achieve half-fluorescence recovery between the maximum intensity before photobleaching (marked as 1.0) and the initial relative intensity of the photobleached area. Statistical significance was determined by t test. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession number AF428244. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Video 1. FRAP of Sl LHP1-GFP at the Chromocenter of an Arabidopsis Nucleus. Supplemental Video 2. FRAP of Sl LHP1(1−306)-GFP at the Chromocenter of an Arabidopsis Nucleus Showing Increased Mobility in the Absence of the CSD.
