!~ABS~! Aureusidin synthase, a polyphenol oxidase (PPO), specifically catalyzes the oxidative formation of aurones from chalcones, which are plant flavonoids, and is responsible for the yellow coloration of snapdragon (Antirrhinum majus) flowers. All known PPOs have been found to be localized in plastids, whereas flavonoid biosynthesis is thought to take place in the cytoplasm [or on the cytoplasmic surface of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)]. However, the primary structural characteristics of aureusidin synthase and some of its molecular properties argue against localization of the enzyme in plastids and the cytoplasm. In this study, the subcellular localization of the enzyme in petal cells of the yellow snapdragon was investigated. Sucrose-density gradient and differential centrifugation analyses suggested that the enzyme (the 39-kDa mature form) is not located in plastids or on the ER. Transient assays using a green fluorescent protein (GFP) chimera fused with the putative propeptide of the PPO precursor suggested that the enzyme was localized within the vacuole lumen. We also found that the necessary information for vacuolar targeting of the PPO was encoded within the 53-residue N-terminal sequence (NTPP), but not in the C-terminal sequence of the precursor. NTPP-mediated ER-to-Golgi trafficking to vacuoles was confirmed by means of the co-expression of an NTPP-GFP chimera with a dominant negative mutant of the Arabidopsis GTPase Sar1 or with a monomeric red fluorescent protein (mRFP)-fused Golgi marker (an H+-translocating inorganic pyrophosphatase of Arabidopsis). We identified a sequence-specific vacuolar sorting determinant in the NTPP of the precursor. We have demonstrated the biosynthesis of a flavonoid skeleton in vacuoles. The findings of this metabolic compartmentation may provide a strategy for overcoming the biochemical instability of the precursor chalcones in the cytoplasm, thus leading to the efficient accumulation of aurones in the flower.
!~RES~! The subcellular localization of AmAS1 in the petal cells of the yellow snapdragon was examined by sucrose-density gradient centrifugation analysis. The organelles were separated from each other on the basis of their isopycnic densities and the correlation between the distribution of AmAS1 and those of organelle markers was examined by enzyme assay and Western blot analysis (Figure 3). AmAS1 activity (Figure 3b) and the 39-kDa mature protein (Figure 3a) of AmAS1 were detected in the lowest isopycnic-density fractions, with good correlation with a vacuole marker (flavonoids). Specifically, the mature AmAS1 and its enzyme activity were not correlated with markers of plastids (chlorophylls and carotenoids) and mitochondria (cytocrome c oxidase activity), indicating that AmAS1 (the mature form) was not localized in these organelles. In the present analysis, one large and one small peak, corresponding to nucleoside diphosphatase (a Golgi marker) and NADPH/cytochrome c reductase (an ER marker) activities, were identified (Figure 3d). Although the activity and the 39-kDa mature protein of AmAS1 were seemingly correlated with large peaks of these organelle markers, the localization of the mature form of this PPO in these organelles is highly unlikely, judging from the results of differential centrifugation analyses and transient assays (see below). A Western blot analysis revealed the presence of an immunopositive protein of approximately 67 kDa in fractions 7–9 (Figure 3a), which appeared to correspond to small peaks of the marker activities of Golgi bodies and ERs. This observation is consistent with the suggested intracellular trafficking of the AmAS1 precursor (approximately 67 kDa) through these organelles in petal cells (see below). [[FIGURE]] To further confirm that AmAS1 activity (i.e. the 39-kDa mature form) is not associated with the ER, we carried out differential centrifugation analyses, where the distribution of activities of AmAS1 and NADPH-cytochrome c reductase (an ER marker) in fractions obtained by centrifugation were compared in the presence and absence of 1 mm MgCl2 (Table S1). Inclusion of magnesium ions in the centrifugation buffer is known to prevent the dissociation of membrane-bound ribosomes, resulting in an increase in the isopycnic density of the microsomes with microsome-associated enzymes (CITATION; CITATION). The results showed that most of the NADPH-cytochrome c reductase activities were recovered in the 5000 and 20 000 g pellets in the presence of MgCl2, whereas approximately 1/3 of the total recovered NADPH-cytochrome c reductase activity was found in the 100 000 g pellet in the absence of MgCl2. By contrast, the per cent activity of total recovered AmAS1 was approximately 95% in the 100 000 g supernatant, irrespective of the presence or absence of MgCl2 (Table S1). These results suggest that AmAS1 activity is not associated with the ER. To further determine whether AmAS1 is localized in the cytoplasm or vacuoles and to examine the role of the putative NTPP and C-terminal propeptide (CTPP) of AmAS1 in the subcellular localization of AmAS1, we constructed expression vectors that encode green fluorescent protein (GFP) chimeras with the putative NTPP and CTPP of AmAS1 (Figure 4). The processing sites in the AmAS1 sequence remain to be unambiguously determined because of the possible modification of the N-terminus of the purified AmAS1. However, the identification of tryptic peptides derived from the purified enzyme revealed that the N- and C-termini of the mature form should lie upstream of Ile92 (Figure 2) and downstream of Trp400, respectively, in the 562-residue precursor (CITATION). Thus, we constructed a series of expression vectors encoding A92-GFP (a GFP chimera containing a 92-residue N-terminal sequence of AmAS1 at the N-terminus of GFP; Figure 4, entry 2), A60-GFP (entry 3), A53-GFP (entry 4), A47-GFP (entry 5), and A36-GFP (entry 6) as well as that encoding GFP-AC (a GFP chimera containing a 162-residue C-terminal sequence of AmAS1 at the C-terminus of GFP; Figure 4, entry 7). These GFP chimeras were expressed in the epidermal cells of onion (Allium cepa) bulbs and the subcellular localizations of the expressed products were observed by means of confocal laser microscopy 48 h after bombardment. The petal cells of snapdragon were not used as the host in routine transient assays because (i) the bombardment assays often resulted in necrosis of snapdragon petal cells; (ii) the large sizes of onion bulb epidermal cells permitted easier microscopic observations; and (iii) it is generally accepted that intracellular sorting mechanisms are widely conserved among plant species (CITATION; CITATION). When A92-GFP, A60-GFP, and A53-GFP were expressed, the fluorescence signal was consistently observed in vacuoles (Figure 5a), indicating that the expressed GFPs were exclusively localized in the vacuole lumen. In contrast, when A47-GFP, A36-GFP, and GFP-AC were expressed, the fluorescence signals appeared to be localized in the cytoplasm and nuclei of the cells (Figure 5b,c). In the absence of the fused NTPP or CTPP (entry 1), the expressed GFP was also localized in the cytoplasm and nuclei of the cells (Figure 5d), indicating that the observed localization of A92-GFP, A60-GFP, and A53-GFP in the vacuole lumen did not arise from an autophagy process. When P109-GFP [a GFP chimera with an N-terminal 109-residue propeptide of pokeweed (Phytolacca americana) PPO (PAP1; a plastide enzyme; CITATION) at the N-terminus of GFP, entry 8] was expressed as a control, the fluorescence signal was found to be localized in granular organelles (probably plastids) distributed in the cytoplasm (Figure 5e). These results, along with the results obtained from the centrifugal analyses, clearly show that, unlike known PPOs that are localized in plastids, AmAS1 is localized in the vacuole lumen, and the necessary information for the vacuolar targeting of this PPO homolog is encoded within the 53-residue N-terminal sequence, but not in the CTPP, of the precursor AmAS1 protein. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Similar transient assays were also carried out using cells from petals of the yellow snapdragon as host cells. In these cases, chimeras of the monomeric red fluorescent protein (mRFP; CITATION; e.g. Figure 4, entry 9) were used because the strong endogenous yellow-green fluorescence of aurones in the petal vacuoles hampered the fluorometric identification of GFP signals. The results were analogous to those obtained with onion epidermal cells (Figure 5g,h). To determine whether vacuolar sorting mediated by the NTPP of AmAS1 passes through the Golgi body, A60-GFP was co-expressed with the wild-type or a dominant negative mutant of Arabidopsis Sar1 [termed (WT)AtSar1 and (DN)AtSar1, respectively; CITATION], and the subcellular localization of the fluorescence signal was determined. The AtSar1, a plant ortholog of yeast Sar1 GTPase, specifically functions in ER-to-Golgi trafficking by regulating the recruitment of coatmer protein (COP II) coat complexes onto the ER membranes and promoting vesicle formation from the ER. It has been shown that simultaneous transient expression with (DN)AtSar1 causes dominant negative inhibition of protein transport from the ER to the Golgi body, and this should provide a useful strategy for identifying of ER-to-Golgi trafficking during sorting to the vacuole (CITATION). The co-expression of A60-GFP with (WT)AtSar1 resulted in the localization of the fluorescence signal in the vacuole lumen (Figure 6a, panel b), as was observed when A60-GFP was solely expressed (Figure 6a, panel a). By contrast, when A60-GFP was co-expressed with (DN)AtSar1, a network of fluorescence signals was exclusively localized in the cytoplasmic space (Figure 6a, panels c,d); this fluorescence-localization pattern was consistent with the localization of the cargo protein in the ER and was also observed when a GFP chimera with AtErd2 (an Arabidopsis thaliana HDEL receptor protein similar to yeast Erd2, which is an integral membrane protein localized in the cis region of the Golgi body; CITATION) was co-expressed with (DN)AtSar1 (data not shown). However, when P109-GFP (Figure 1, entry 8) was co-expressed with (DN)AtSar1, the fluorescence signals were localized in granular organelles distributed in the cytoplasm (Figure 6a, panels g,h), and this was also the case when this GFP chimera was co-expressed with (WT)AtSar1 (Figure 6a, panel f). Thus, these results suggest that AmAS1 was transported from the ER, via the Golgi body, to the vacuole, as is the case for most vacuolar proteins in plants. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The ER-to-Golgi trafficking governed by the NTPP of AmAS1 was further examined by co-transformation of A60-GFP and AVP2-mRFP, a fusion of AVP2 (a H+-translocating inorganic pyrophosphatase of Arabidopsis, a marker protein for the Golgi body; CITATION) and mRFP (Figure 6b). At 24 h after the co-transformation of these constructs, GFP signals were identified in the Golgi body, where mRFP is specifically localized [Figure 6b(a), upper panels], whereas they were exclusively identified in the vacuole lumen 48 h after the co-transformation [Figure 6b(a), lower panels]. These results are also consistent with the ER-to-Golgi trafficking of AmAS1. The above findings show that the expression of A53-GFP resulted in the vacuolar localization of the expressed product, whereas that of A47-GFP did not. This suggests that vacuolar sorting information should, at least in part, be localized between Asn48 and Ala53 in AmAS1. Indeed, the sequence -Asn48-Ser-Leu-Ala-Tyr52- (NSLAY) of AmAS1 appears to satisfy the characteristics of an N-terminal ssVSD in plants, which is referred to as the NPIXL motif: [preferably Asn]-[not acidic]-[Ile or Leu]-[any amino acid]-[large hydrophobic], where the specific nature of the amino acids at the first, third, and fifth positions of this motif has been shown to be of particular importance for its function (CITATION). To examine the functional significance of this NSLAY sequence in the vacuolar sorting of AmAS1, the third and fifth positions of this sequence were replaced, respectively, by Phe and Ser, and the GFP chimeras with the mutated signal sequences A60(L50F)-GFP and A60(Y52S)-GFP were expressed for use in transient assays. The replacement amino acid residues (i.e. Phe and Ser) were selected on the basis of the previous observation that replacement with these residues had the most significant effects on the function of the NPIXL motif of the precursor of sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas) sporamin, a vacuolar protein (CITATION). The results showed that, for both of these mutants, the expressed product was mislocalized in the cytoplasm and nucleus (Figure 7b,c) – these single amino acid substitutions in the NSLAY sequence inhibited vacuolar sorting (the strong endogenous fluorescence from the intercellular space hampered examination of the possible localization of the flourogenic reporter therein). It has been shown that the NPIXL motif of the precursor of sweet potato sporamin may also serve as a vacuolar sorting signal when it is located at the C-terminus of a cargo protein (CITATION). To further determine whether this is also the case for the NSLAY motif of AmAS1, GFP-A60 (a GFP chimera having the 60-residue N-terminal sequence of AmAS1 at the C-terminus of GFP; Figure 4, entry 10) was expressed, and the subcellular localization of fluorescence signal was monitored. The results showed that the fluorescence signal was localized in the vacuole lumen when GFP-A60 was expressed (Figure 7d). Moreover, the ER-to-Golgi trafficking of GFP-A60 during its translocation to the vacuole was confirmed [Figure 6b(b)]. Thus, the NSLAY sequence may function as an ssVSD when it is located either in the N- or C-terminus of a cargo protein, as was observed for the NPIXL motif of sweet potato sporamin and barley (Hordeum vulgare) aleurain (CITATION). These results strongly suggest that the NSLAY sequence serves as an ssVSD, which is structurally and functionally related to the NPIXL motif. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! A commercial variety of the ‘Yellow Butterfly’ snapdragon was purchased from a local market in Sendai, Japan and used throughout this study. The AmAS1 cDNA was obtained as described previously (CITATION). The psGFP(S65T) plasmid (CITATION), CaM35S-sGFP(S65T)-NOS3′, was the generous gift of Dr Yasuo Niwa (Graduate School of Nutritional and Environmental Sciences, University of Shizuoka, Shizuoka, Japan). Isolation of the PAP1 cDNA (CITATION) and the construction of the AtSar1 plasmids [plasmid 1, P35S-sporamin-GFP-Tnos-P35S-(WT)AtSar1-Tnos in pUC18; plasmid 2, P35S-sporamin-GFP-Tnos-P35S-(DN)AtSar1-Tnos in pUC18] have been described elsewhere (CITATION). The construct AVP2-mRFP was generously provided by Dr Masa H. Sato (Faculty of Integrated Human Studies, Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan; CITATION). BCECF-AM [2′,7′-bis-(carboxyethyl)-5-carboxyfluorescein acetoxymethyl ester] was obtained from Molecular Probes (Eugene, OR, USA). The petals of fresh yellow snapdragon flowers at stages 3–5 (CITATION) were chopped into small pieces (approximately 1 mm × 1 mm) using a razor blade in ice-cold buffer A [150 mm Tricine-NaOH, pH 7.5, containing 1 mm EDTA, 1 mm MgCl2, and 13% (weight/volume; w/v) sucrose] at a ratio of 1 g of fresh weight per 2 ml of buffer. The chopped material was further disrupted with a Tefron-glass homogeneizer at 4°C for 10 min, followed by centrifugation at 500 g for several seconds. The supernatant was then filtered first through a 180-μm filter (Millipore, Billerica, MA, USA), then through a 100-μm filter, and the filtrate was then subjected to sucrose gradient density centrifugation. Continuous sucrose gradients (9.0 ml) were prepared from 6% and 55% (weight/volume) sucrose stock solutions each containing 1 mm EDTA in ultracentrifuge tubes (14 × 89 mm; Beckman, Coulter, Fullerton, California, USA). The filtrate (0.5 ml) was layered onto the gradient and centrifuged at 119 000 g and 4°C for 4 h in a Beckman SW41 Ti rotor. After puncturing the bottoms of the tubes, 0.5-ml fractions of the gradients were collected and were assayed for AmAS1 activity and the following organelle markers: plastids, contents of chlorophylls and carotenoids (CITATION); mitochondria, cytochrome c oxidase activity; Golgi body, nucleoside diphosphatase activity (CITATION); ER, NADPH-cytochrome c reductase activity (CITATION; CITATION); vacuoles, flavonoid contents. AmAS1 activity was assayed using PHC as a substrate by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) as previously described (CITATION). The petals of fresh yellow snapdragon flowers were chopped into small pieces using a razor blade in buffer B [150 mm Tricine-NaOH, pH 7.5, containing 0.5 m sucrose, 1 mm DTT, 1 mm MgCl2, and 13% (w/v) sucrose] or buffer B containing 1 mm EDTA instead of MgCl2 (CITATION; CITATION). The chopped material was centrifuged at 500 g for several seconds. Supernatant was then filtered through a 180-μm filter, then a 100-μm filter, and the filtrate was then subjected to differential centrifugation at 5000 g for 10 min, 20 000 g for 30 min, and 100 000 g for 2 h. SDS-PAGE was performed as described by CITATION. The proteins on the gels were visualized by staining with Coomassie brilliant blue. For Western blotting analyses, proteins in the SDS-PAGE gel were transferred to an Immobilon-P membrane (Millipore), which was then blocked with the recommended dilution of a blocking reagent (Amersham Bioscience, Piscataway, New Jersey, USA) at room temperature for 2 h. The blots were probed with a 1:1000 dilution of primary anti-mature AmAS1 immunoglobulin G (IgG; rabbit) and a 1:5000 dilution of the secondary donkey anti-rabbit IgG–horseradish peroxidase conjugate. The immune complexes were visualized by means of a peroxidase-catalyzed chemiluminescence reaction using an ECL Western blotting kit (Amersham Bioscience) following the manufacturer's recommendations. A series of expression vectors for GFP chimeric proteins (Figure 4, entries 2–6) where the NTPP (whose length varied) of AmAS1 was introduced into the N-terminus of the sGFP(S65T) molecule was produced as follows (pA92-GFP, for example, denotes a vector that expresses A92-GFP). An NTPP cDNA fragment was amplified from the template, pAmAS1 (CITATION), by PCR using the forward primer fsal1 (see Table S2) and the corresponding reverse primer (rnco92 for pA92-GFP, rnco60 for pA60-GFP, rnco53 for pA53-GFP, rnco47 for pA47-GFP, and rnco36 for pA36-GFP; Table S2), followed by digestion with the restriction enzymes SalI and NcoI. The resulting DNA fragment was ligated with SalI/NcoI-treated psGFP. DNA sequences were verified by sequencing, in both orientations, using an automated DNA sequencer, the CEQ2000 DNA analysis system (Beckman Coulter, Fullerton, CA, USA). The expression vector pP109-GFP (Figure 4, entry 8) was produced essentially as described above, except that the primers Npf1 and Npr1 (Table S2) and the template PAP1 (CITATION) were used for PCR amplification of the NTPP portion of PAP1 cDNA. For construction of the vector, pGFP-AC, expressing the GFP-AC protein (Figure 4, entry 7), a CTPP cDNA fragment was amplified from pAmAS1 by PCR using the forward primers fbsrg1 and rgcrg1 (see Table S2), followed by digestion with the restriction enzyme BsrGI. The resulting DNA fragment was ligated with BsrGI-treated psGFP. It should be noted that the guanine at position 711 of psGFP(S65T) was replaced by cytosine to create a SacI site and to inactivate the restriction BsrGI site of psGFP(S65T), which also is present in the NTPP of AmAS1. The orientation of the inserted DNA was confirmed by sequencing. pGFP-A60 was constructed essentially as described above, using fnco1 and rnco1 as primers (Table S2). For construction of the vector, pA60-mRFP, expressing A60-mRFP (entry 9), the 5′-terminal region of AmAS1 cDNA (AmAS11−60) was amplified by PCR using the primers SalI-AmAS1-FW and BglII-AmAS1-RV (Table S2). The mRFP1 subcloned in pRSETB (Invitorogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA; CITATION) was amplified with the primers BamHI-mRFP-FW and NotI-mRFP-RV (Table S2). These two fragments were fused at the BglII site of the 3′-terminus of the amplified AmAS11−60 and at the BamHI site of the 5′-terminus of mRFP1, resulting in A60-mRFP. The A60-mRFP was inserted at the SalI and NotI sites in the sGFP/pUC vector (Figure 4, entry 1). Particle-gun bombardment of the plasmids in plant cells was carried out with the Helios Gene Gun System (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA, USA) following the standard protocol provided by the supplier. Gold particles (diameter 1.0 μm), a microcarrier loading quantity of 0.5 mg per target and a DNA loading ratio of 50 μg DNA/25 mg of gold were used in the particle bombardment, and onion epidermal cells were bombarded at a pressure 120 psi per shot. After bombardment, the transformed onion epidermal cells were placed in a sealed Petri dish (90 mm in diameter) containing a small amount of water (approximately 1.0 ml) to prevent drying and incubated at 22°C for 48 h under conditions of continuous darkness (CITATION). Under light conditions, the expressed GFP chimeras rapidly underwent proteolytic degradation in the vacuole (CITATION). Transformed cells were visualized with a fluorescent microscope (LSM510; Carl Zeiss, Jena, Germany) according to a previous report (CITATION). For the construction of the vector co-expressing (WT)AtSar1 and A60-GFP (Figure 4, entry 3) or P109-GFP (Figure 4, entry 8), a region containing 35S promoter-sporamin-GFP in the AtSar1 plasmid 1 (see above) was replaced by 35S promoter-A60-GFP or 35S promoter–P109-GFP using HindIII and NotI sites, resulting in two co-expression vectors, A60-GFP with (WT)AtSar1, and P109-GFP with (WT)AtSar1, respectively. A co-expression vector with (DN)AtSar1 was constructed using the AtSar1 plasmid 2 in the same manner as above. For co-expression of the A60-GFP chimeric protein (Figure 4, entry 3) and AVP2-mRFP, gold particles were simultaneously incubated with equal amounts of the two plasmids (pA60-GFP and AVP2-mRFP; see above) at a concentration of 2 μg plasmid mg−1 of gold particles. The gold particles fixed with the two plasmids were used for particle bombardment using a Helios Gene Gun (Bio-Rad) as described (CITATION).
