!~ABS~! Sulfotransferases (SOTs) catalyse the transfer of a sulfate group from 3′‐phosphoadenosine 5′‐phosphosulfate (PAPS) to an appropriate hydroxy group of various substrates with the parallel formation of 3′‐phosphoadenosine 5′‐phosphate. In Arabidopsis thaliana, 18 SOT proteins (AtSOT) have been identified. Three of them, AtSOT16, AtSOT17 and AtSOT18, catalyse the sulfation of desulfoglucosinolates. The proteins were expressed in Escherichia coli, purified by affinity chromatography and used for enzyme kinetic studies. By establishing two types of enzyme assay using both 35S‐labelled and unlabelled PAPS, separation of the products by HPLC, and detection of the products by monitoring radioactivity or UV absorption, the substrate specificities of the three AtSOT proteins were determined. They show different maximum velocities with several desulfoglucosinolates as substrates and differ in their affinity for desulfobenzylglucosinolate and PAPS. The sequences encoding AtSOT18 were amplified from Arabidopsis ecotypes C24 and Col0; the two expressed proteins differ in two out of 350 amino acids. These amino‐acid variations led to different substrate specificities. Exchange of one of the two amino acids in AtSOT18 from C24 to the respective amino acid in AtSOT18 from Col0 gave the C24 protein the same substrate specificity as the wild‐type AtSOT18 protein from Col0. All three desulfoglucosinolate AtSOT proteins are localized in the cytoplasm, as demonstrated by transient expression of fusion constructs with the green fluorescent protein in Arabidopsis protoplasts. Northern blot analysis indicated differential expression of the three AtSOT genes in plant organs and tissues at different developmental stages and during a light/darkness cycle. High (500 µm) and low (50 µm) sulfate concentrations in the medium did not influence the levels of expression. 
!~RES~! The glucosinolate pattern differs among the various Arabidopsis ecotypes [CITATION]. As the ecotype C24 has the broadest variety of glucosinolates representing all chemical groups except aromatic (Michael Reichelt, Max Planck Institute for Chemical Ecology, Jena, Germany, unpublished data), we decided to study the three putative SOT proteins from ecotype C24 and for comparison one SOT protein from ecotype Col0. The DNA sequence encoding the AtSOT18 protein isolated from ecotype Col0 (AtSOT18*) showed 100% identity with the available sequences in the databases (accession number NP_177549). Each sequence encoding the AtSOT16–18 proteins from ecotype C24 revealed one transition in comparison with published sequences from ecotype Col0 [CITATION], and AtSOT17 and 18 also had one transversion.  These replacements led to either one or two changes at the amino‐acid level compared with the primary amino‐acid sequences in ecotype Col0. In AtSOT16, V324 was replaced by L, in AtSOT17 W183 was replaced by R and S344 by T, and in AtSOT18 D301 was replaced by G and K339 by N. The replacement of V with L (AtSOT16) and of S with T (AtSOT17) should not cause any significant changes in the tertiary structure of the proteins, whereas the replacement of the nonpolar W with the polar R and the charged D with the small G and the polar L with the charged N may affect the tertiary structure or the substrate‐binding cavities. The putative PAPS‐binding site was not changed. Four conserved regions, I–IV, which were speculated to have functional roles in soluble SOT proteins, have previously been defined [CITATION]. The amino acids V324 in AtSOT16 and S344 in AtSOT17 and K339 in AtSOT18 are located after region IV at the C‐terminus of the protein. The replacement of W183 by R in AtSOT17 is located in region II and that of D301 by G in AtSOT18 between region III and IV, parts of the protein thought to be responsible for substrate binding.  The predicted molecular masses of the three AtSOT proteins from ecotype Col0 were 39.2 kDa for AtSOT16 consisting of 338 amino acids, 39.9 kDa for AtSOT17 (346 amino acids), and 40.5 kDa for AtSOT18 (350 amino acids). At the amino‐acid level, AtSOT16 showed 74% identity with AtSOT17 and 76% identity with AtSOT18; AtSOT17 shared 77% identity with AtSOT18.  All four recombinant AtSOT proteins could be purified to ≈ 90% homogeneity, as estimated by the analysis of protein fractions on silver‐stained SDS polyacrylamide gels (data not shown). To analyse the substrate specificities in vitro, SOT assays were performed as described by Glendening & Poulton [CITATION]. The 300‐µL assay mixtures contained 15 µg purified recombinant protein in 83 mm Tris/HCl, pH 9.0, 9.2 mm MgCl2, and 58 µm PAPS (Calbiochem, Darmstadt, Germany) and 6.2 mm desulfoglucosinolate, and were incubated for 30 min at 30 °C. The results of the assays using AtSOT18* have been published [CITATION]. Only in the presence of nondenatured AtSOT18* and both substrates, PAPS and desulfoallyl glucosinolate, could the formation of the product, the sulfated allyl glucosinolate, be detected by HPLC analysis. The product was analysed by MS, which confirmed its identity (data not shown). Vmax was calculated as 467 pkatal·(mg protein)−1, ≈ 30 times higher than previously obtained using the same substrate [CITATION]. When the assay conditions described by Glendening & Poulton [CITATION] were followed exactly, only the recombinant AtSOT18*, out of the four expressed and purified AtSOT proteins, was shown to be active. Furthermore, it was only active with desulfoallyl glucosinolate as substrate out of 12 desulfoglucosinolates tested. Therefore two strategies were applied: optimizing the assay conditions for all four recombinant AtSOT proteins and increasing the sensitivity of the detection by using [35S]PAPS.  To determine the pH optimum, activities in the pH range 6–10 were tested; the highest activities were measured at pH 9.0. A higher incubation temperature of 37 °C instead of 30 °C led to the formation of larger product peaks. In the absence of MgCl2, the enzyme activity itself was not impaired, but HPLC separation and peak shape were, for unknown reasons, negatively influenced; therefore MgCl2 was always included in the assay buffer. In the first experiments inhibitory effects of higher PAPS (Calbiochem) concentrations were observed. It was found that the PAPS preparation also contained ≈ 40% phosphoadenosine 5′‐phosphate (PAP), which is known to inhibit the SOT reaction [CITATION]. Therefore almost pure PAPS (99.5%) from another source (Institute of Human Nutrition) was used in subsequent experiments. The concentration of the desulfoglucosinolates was reduced from 1 mm to 58 µm, the same concentration as the cosubstrate, because substrate concentrations close to 1 mm were also found to have inhibitory effects. In parallel, we attempted to increase the sensitivity of the enzyme assay by including 35S‐labelled PAPS in addition to unlabelled PAPS, and to analyse the products with a radioactivity monitor connected in series with a UV detector. Twelve desulfoglucosinolates were used as substrates in the assay in which [35S]PAPS was included. For all of them, product formation could be unequivocally detected. In the optimized nonradioactive assay, product formation could be shown for eight substrates (see next paragraph). Therefore the sensitivity of the assay using [35S]PAPS was slightly higher than the nonradioactive assay.  The four different desulfoglucosinolate AtSOT proteins may exhibit different enzyme kinetics and/or different substrate specificities. Comparisons of kinetic properties with a single substrate were performed using desulfobenzylglucosinolate, because all four proteins showed catalytic activity with this substrate (Table 1). The kinetic data were determined with either PAPS or desulfobenzyl glucosinolate as the variable substrate. For the determination of the Km values, 10 data points using substrate concentrations in the range 25–250 µm were included. For AtSOT16 the range was extended to 700 µm. The results were obtained by fitting data to the Michaelis–Menten equation. No enzyme inhibition was observed over the ranges of PAPS and desulfobenzylglucosinolate concentration used. Typical hyperbolic saturation was observed when PAPS was the variable substrate (data not shown). The Vmax for desulfobenzylglucosinolate of AtSOT16 and AtSOT18* are in the same range, whereas that of AtSOT17 is ≈ 6 times lower. The results also reveal that the binding affinity of the donor substrate PAPS and the acceptor substrate desulfobenzylglucosinolate to AtSOT16 and AtSOT18* are the same, whereas PAPS has a higher affinity for AtSOT17. It was not possible to determine a reliable Km value for AtSOT18 because a sigmoid curve was obtained in the low concentration range. Higher substrate and cosubstrate concentrations were inhibitory.  To determine the substrate specificities, enzyme assays were performed under identical conditions with the nonradioactive assay using the four recombinant AtSOT proteins and eight different purified desulfoglucosinolates. As an example, HPLC chromatograms with desulfo‐6‐methylthiohexylglucosinolate as substrate are shown in Fig. 1. The peaks on the right represent the substrate peak (58 µm), the peaks on the left the product peaks. The four recombinant AtSOT proteins show different activities with desulfo‐6‐methylthiohexylglucosinolate as substrate using the same assay conditions.  [[FIGURE]] The results of the enzyme assays with the full range of substrates are summarized in Table 2. AtSOT16 has a very broad substrate specificity and can sulfate all desulfoglucosinolates offered. Both the tryptophan‐derived and phenylalanine‐derived desulfoglucosinolates are accepted equally. AtSOT17 principally shows activity with the phenylalanine‐derived substrate desulfobenzylglucosinolate, and to a much lower extent with the methionine‐derived desulfo‐6‐methylthiohexylglucosinolate. AtSOT18 shows low activity with desulfo‐6‐methylthiohexylglucosinolate and with both aromatic desulfoglucosinolates tested. The AtSOT18* protein shows the highest activity with desulfobenzylglucosinolate and sulfates all methionine‐derived desulfoglucosinolates and also the tryptophan‐derived desulfoindol‐3‐ylmethylglucosinolate. In summary, AtSOT16 and AtSOT18* possess broad substrate specificities, whereas the AtSOT17 and AtSOT18 are active only with a small number of desulfoglucosinolates.  To investigate the differences between AtSOT18 from ecotype C24 and AtSOT18* from ecotype Col0, the two amino acids in AtSOT18 were replaced separately by the respective amino acids in AtSOT18* resulting in AtSOT18G301D and AtSOT18N339K. The AtSOT18G301D protein showed a 25 times higher specific activity with desulfobenzylglucosinolate than AtSOT18 comparable to the specific activity of AtSOT18*(Fig. 2). The protein sulfated the same desulfoglucosinolates with velocities comparable to AtSOT18*(Table 3). To date, we have been unable to purify the AtSOT18N339K protein under native conditions. The results indicate a critical role for the glycine residue at position 301 in substrate recognition.  [[FIGURE]] Several publicly available programs have been used to predict the subcellular localization of AtSOT16, 17 and 18 [CITATION]. For all three proteins, localizations in peroxisomes were predicted with the highest probabilities, whereas the second highest scores were given for a localization in the cytoplasm (AtSOT16 and 18) and the chloroplast (AtSOT17). To confirm the in silico prediction results of all three AtSOT proteins, in‐frame fusions of the sequences encoding the full‐length proteins with the green fluorescent protein (GFP) encoding sequence (C) were transformed in Arabidopsis protoplasts (Fig. 3A–D). AtSOT18 has already been shown to remain in the cytoplasm [CITATION]. In the present study, AtSOT16 and AtSOT17 also remained in the cytoplasm. Transformations with fusion constructs encoding endoplasmic reticulum (ER)‐localized proteins resulted in completely different images (data not shown). Therefore, it can be concluded that none of these proteins contain a targeting peptide at either the N‐terminus or C‐terminus.  [[FIGURE]] In addition to different substrate specificities, the three desulfoglucosinolate AtSOT genes investigated may have different roles in glucosinolate metabolism because of their different expression patterns. mRNA transcript levels were assessed by Northern blotting (Fig. 4A). As the DNA sequences showed a high degree of similarity [CITATION], the specificity of the probes was tested by analysing cross‐hybridization reactions in Southern blots using the respective plasmid DNA. Cross‐reactivity was almost undetectable among the three different desulfoglucosinolate AtSOT genes (data not shown). The highest mRNA amounts for AtSOT16 and 18 were found in roots; mRNA coding for AtSOT17 was also easily detectable in roots but the expression was much higher in mature leaves of the primary rosette. In young leaves the mRNA levels for all three genes were about half those of the mature rosette leaves and stems. In flowers the expression levels were lower than in the other tissues analysed and even more reduced in siliques. In summary, the expression patterns of all three desulfoglucosinolate AtSOT genes show small, but distinctive differences.  [[FIGURE]] A comparison of developmental stages of up to 6‐week‐old Arabidopsis plants showed the mRNA levels of AtSOT16 and AtSOT17 to be maximum in the 2‐week‐old plants, whereas in older plants the expression levels decreased, reaching a minimum in flowering plants (weeks 5 and 6; Fig. 4B). In contrast, the mRNA levels of AtSOT18 were low in the younger plants (up to 4 weeks old) and were slightly elevated in the oldest plants harvested in weeks 5 and 6.  The influence of light on the expression was investigated by following a 12 h light/12 h darkness cycle of 4‐week‐old Arabidopsis plants (Fig. 4C). A cycling of the AtSOT17 mRNA levels was observed: the highest mRNA levels were determined at the end of the light phase, and the lowest at the end of dark phase.  The effects of a 10‐fold different sulfate concentration in the medium were investigated by germinating seeds in MS medium with 500 µm (high) and 50 µm (low) sulfate concentrations and growing them for 18 days. The Arabidopsis plants grown at high and low sulfate were phenotypically identical. The levels of mRNA encoding AtSOT16, AtSOT17, and AtSOT18 were almost the same at both sulfate concentrations (Fig. 4D). 
!~MM~! Seeds of A. thaliana, ecotype C24 and Col0, were originally obtained from the Arabidopsis stock centre at Ohio State University. Seeds were germinated on substrate TKS1 (Floragard, Oldenburg, Germany). Seedlings were transplanted into pots (7 cm diameter) containing TKS2 substrate (Floragard) after 14 days. Plants were grown in the greenhouse in a 16 h light/8 h darkness rhythm at a temperature of 23 °C/21 °C. When necessary, additional light was provided for 16 h a day to obtain a constant quantum fluence rate of 300 µmol·m−2·s−1 (sodium vapour lamps, SON‐T Agro 400; Philips, Hamburg, Germany).  To obtain plant material from different tissues, Arabidopsis plants were grown for 7 weeks in the greenhouse, counted from the transfer into pots. Plants were harvested and split into roots, mature leaves of the primary rosette, young leaves of the rosette, stems (lower halves of primary and secondary bolts), siliques, and flowers.  To investigate natural senescence, Arabidopsis plants were grown in the greenhouse for up to 6 weeks, and the parts above ground were cut every week. The oldest leaves were comparable to the S3 stage as defined by Lohmann et al. [CITATION].  Four‐week‐old plants were grown in a 12 h light/12 h darkness cycle in a growth chamber at a quantum fluence rate of 50 µmol·m−2·s−1 (TLD 58 W/33; Philips) and a constant temperature of 22 °C. To follow one complete diurnal cycle, plant parts above ground were harvested every 4 h for nearly 1.5 days starting 1 h after the onset of light.  To investigate the influence of high and low sulfate concentrations in the growing medium, Arabidopsis seeds, ecotype Col0, were germinated under sterile conditions and grown for 18 days in a hydroponic culture system under sterile conditions [CITATION] in MS medium prepared as described by Murashige & Skoog [CITATION]. The medium contained modified sulfate concentrations of 500 µm (high) and 50 µm (low), respectively.  The three genes under investigation, At1g74100, At1g18590, and At1g74090, encoding SOT16 from Arabidopsis (AtSOT16) (previously called AtST5a; explanations for the new nomenclature are given in Klein & Papenbrock [CITATION]), AtSOT17/AtST5c, and AtSOT18/AtST5b, respectively, do not contain any introns. Therefore, the coding sequences could be amplified from genomic DNA isolated from Arabidopsis (ecotype C24) leaves with the Qiagen DNA extraction kit (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany). The following primer pair was used to amplify a 1017‐bp coding sequence for AtSOT16: primer 258 (5′‐GGTACCGAATCAAAGACAACC‐3′) extended by a KpnI restriction site, and primer 259 (5′‐CTGCAGGTTATCATGTTGAAGC‐3′) extended by a PstI restriction site. For the amplification of the 1041‐bp coding sequence for AtSOT17, primer 262 (5′‐GGATCCGAATCCAAAACCATA‐3′) extended by a BamHI restriction site, and primer 263 (5′‐GTCGACTGATTTTGTAGAAAG‐3′) extended by a SalI restriction site were used. A 1053‐bp cDNA encoding AtSOT18 was amplified from genomic DNA of Arabidopsis (ecotype C24) and also from the λEMBL3 genomic library of Arabidopsis (ecotype Col0) (Clontech, Heidelberg, Germany) as described [CITATION].  Two amino acids in AtSOT18 were replaced as described [CITATION]. For the replacement of G301 with D301, the following primers were used: P1/P260, P2/261, P3/P369 (5′‐AAAGACAGAGAGGATCGTCCTGGTGTT‐3′) and P4/P370 (5′‐AACACCAGGACGATCCTCTCTGTCTTT‐3′). For the replacement of N339 with K339, the following primers were used: P1/P260, P2′/377 (5′‐CTTTACGGTCTTTAAAAAGGCCGTAAT‐3′), P3/P371 (5′‐TTAATGGAAGAGAAATTTAAGGGCACC‐3′) and P4/P372 (5′‐GGTGCCCTTAAATTTCTCTTCCATTAA‐3′).  To obtain fusions with GFP either with the 5′ end of the GFP coding sequence (pGFP‐N/AtSOT) or with the 3′ end (pGFP‐C/AtSOT) [CITATION] the following primer pairs were used: for the AtSOT16 (123 bp) fusion with the 5′ end of the GFP primer 295 (5′‐CCATGGAATCAAAGACAA‐3′) extended by a NcoI restriction site, and primer 296 (5′‐AGATCTATCTGGTCTCCAGCC‐3′) extended by a BglII restriction site, and for fusion of the AtSOT16 cDNA (873 bp) with the 3′ end of the GFP primer 297 (5′‐CCATGGGTGGACACTGGTGGCAA‐3′) extended by a NcoI restriction site, and primer 298 (5′‐AGATCTGTTATCATGTTGAAG‐3′) extended by a BglII restriction site. The following primer pairs were used for AtSOT17 (1041 bp) fusions with the GFP sequence: primer 299 (5′‐CAATGGAATCCAAAACCATAAACG‐3′) extended by a NcoI restriction site, and primer 300 (5′‐AGATCTTGATTTTGAAGAAAG‐3′) extended by a BglII restriction site.  The PCR contained 0.2 mm dNTPs (Roth, Karlsruhe, Germany), 0.4 µm each primer (MWG Biotech, Ebersberg, Germany), 1 mm MgCl2 (final concentration, respectively), 0.75 µL RedTaq DNA‐Polymerase (Sigma, Taufkirchen, Germany), and about 1 µg template DNA in a final volume of 50 µL. Before the start of the first PCR cycle, the DNA was denatured for 180 s at 94 °C followed by 28 PCR cycles conducted for 60 s at 94 °C, 60 s at 48 °C (AtSOT16, AtSOT18 and AtSOT18*) or 45 °C (AtSOT17), and 60 s at 72 °C. The amplified PCR fragments were ligated into the expression vector pQE‐30 (Qiagen) or into the pGFP vectors, and the vectors were introduced into the Escherichia coli strain XL1‐blue. All clones were sequenced at least twice from both sides to obtain overlapping sequences (MWG Biotech). The four different AtSOT proteins [AtSOT16, AtSOT17, AtSOT18 (ecotype C24), and AtSOT18* (ecotype Col0)] were expressed in E. coli and purified as described [CITATION]. The purity of the protein preparations was checked by SDS/PAGE [CITATION] and subsequent Coomassie Brilliant Blue and silver staining. Protein contents were determined by the method of Bradford [CITATION] with BSA (Roth) as a protein standard.  The desulfo forms of the parent glucosinolates derived from methionine, tryptophan and phenylalanine were prepared as described by Graser et al. [CITATION]. In short, the glucosinolates were extracted by 80% methanol from seeds of different plant species and purified on DEAE‐Sephadex A25. The bound glucosinolates were treated with sulfatase (Sigma) overnight, and the desulfoglucosinolates obtained [CITATION] were eluted with 60% methanol. Individual desulfoglucosinolates were isolated by preparative HPLC with fraction collection. The following glucosinolates were used in the experiments in their desulfo forms: 3‐butenylglucosinolate from B. napus, 3‐methylthiopropylglucosinolate from A. thaliana, 4‐methylthiobutylglucosinolate from Eruca sativa, 6‐methylthiohexylglucosinolate from Alyssum maritimum, indol‐3‐ylmethylglucosinolate from Isatis tinctoria, 2‐phenylethylglucosinolate from Nasturtium officinale, 4‐pentenylglucosinolate from B. napus, 5‐methylthiopentylglucosinolate from A. thaliana, 7‐methylthioheptylglucosinolate from A. thaliana, 8‐methylthiooctylglucosinolate from A. thaliana and benzylglucosinolate from Tropaeolum majus. In addition, sinigrin, also called allyl glucosinolate (Sigma) was purchased and desulfated as described above. 4‐Pentenylglucosinolate, 5‐methylthiopentylglucosinolate, 7‐methylthioheptylglucosinolate and 8‐methylthiooctylglucosinolate were only used as substrates in the assays including [35S]PAPS as cosubstrate whereas all other glucosinolates were used in both assay types (see next paragraph). Structures of all Arabidopsis glucosinolates are shown in [CITATION].  The enzyme assays with recombinant proteins were set up in a modified way from that described by Glendening & Poulton [CITATION]. During the optimization of the enzyme assay conditions, 5–20 µg of the purified recombinant proteins was used. Different pH values (6–10 using appropriate buffers for the respective pH range) and the effects of the addition of 9.2 mm MgCl2 were tested. Different PAPS preparations (Calbiochem or obtained from Professor H. R. Glatt, Institute of Human Nutrition, Berholz‐Rehbruecke, Germany) were used, and [35S]PAPS (3.7 MBq; Perkin‐Elmer, Boston, MA, USA) was mixed in a molar ratio of 1 : 100 with nonradioactive PAPS. Finally, the 300‐µL assays contained: 83 mm Tris/HCl, pH 9.0, 9.2 mm MgCl2, 58 µm PAPS, the respective substrate (58 µm), and 15 µg purified protein. For the determination of the Km values for desulfobenzylglucosinolate, at least 10 different substrate concentrations were used depending on their inhibitory effects; in these assays the PAPS concentrations were increased by various amounts to avoid limitation of the cosubstrate. The reaction was started by the addition of PAPS, incubated for 60 min at 37 °C, and stopped by incubation for 10 min at 95 °C. The formation of the respective sulfated product was analysed by HPLC (Knauer, Berlin, Germany) as described by Mellon et al. [CITATION]. Separation was achieved with a gradient of 0.1% trifluoroacetic acid and acetonitrile with 0.1% trifluoroacetic acid on an RP‐C18 column (Supelcosil LC‐18‐DB, 250 × 4.6 mm internal diameter, 5 µm particle size; Supelco, Taufkirchen, Germany) with a flow rate of 1 mL·min−1. The eluent was monitored by diode array detection (Knauer) between 190 and 360 nm (2 nm interval). Desulfoglucosinolates and the respective intact glucosinolates were identified by comparison of retention time and UV spectra with those of purified standards previously extracted from Arabidopsis and quantified at A229 relative to the internal standard [CITATION].  When [35S]PAPS was included, the assay products were separated as described above except that the flow was reduced to 0.25 mL·min−1 and the column diameter was 2.1 mm. In addition to UV absorption at A229 (Agilent HP1100 Series; Agilent, Böblingen, Germany), products were detected by a flow‐through radioactivity monitor (Packard Radiomatic 500TR; Hewlett‐Packard, Böblingen, Germany) with a 0.5‐mL flow cell and Ultima‐Flo AP scintillation fluid (Packard) in a ratio of 4 : 1 to column eluent. All data reported are means of at least three independent measurements.  Preparation and transformation of protoplasts from Arabidopsis plants were as described previously [CITATION]. The transiently transformed protoplasts were analysed by fluorescence microscopy (Axioskop Zeiss, Jena, Germany) with the following filter set: excitation 450–490 nm (filter BP450–490) and emission 520 nm (filter LP520) for GFP. All images were prepared with Corel Photo Paint 10.  Total RNA was extracted essentially as described by Chomczynski & Sacchi [CITATION]. RNA samples (20 µg) were separated on 1% denaturing agarose/formaldehyde gels. Equal loading was controlled by staining the gels with ethidium bromide. After RNA transfer to nylon membranes, the filters were probed with digoxigenin‐labelled cDNA probes obtained using the PCR DIG probe synthesis kit (Roche, Mannheim, Germany). Colorimetric or chemiluminescent detection methods with nitroblue tetrazolium and 5‐bromo‐4‐chloro‐3‐indolyl phosphate or with CDP‐Star (Roche) as substrates for alkaline phosphatase were applied.  DNA and amino‐acid sequences were analysed with the programs MapDraw and Protean in Lasergene (DNASTAR, Madison, WI, USA). For the prediction of protein localization, different programs were applied (iPSORT, PSORT, SignalP, and TargetP). Several programs were used for the determination of phosphorylation sites and for the prediction of the secondary structure (http://www.expasy.ch/tools). The Km values were calculated from the nonlinear Michaelis–Menten plot using an enzyme kinetics program (SigmaPlot 7.0). 
