!~ABS~! TARGET OF RAPAMYCIN (TOR) kinase controls many cellular functions in eukaryotic cells in response to stress and nutrient availability and was shown to be essential for embryonic development in Arabidopsis thaliana. We demonstrated that Arabidopsis RAPTOR1 (a TOR regulatory protein) interacts with the HEAT repeats of TOR and that RAPTOR1 regulates the activity of S6 kinase (S6K) in response to osmotic stress. RAPTOR1 also interacts in vivo with Arabidopsis S6K1, a putative substrate for TOR. S6K1 fused to green fluorescent protein and immunoprecipitated from tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) leaves after transient expression was active in phosphorylating the Arabidopsis ribosomal S6 protein. The catalytic domain of S6K1 could be phosphorylated by Arabidopsis 3-phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase-1 (PDK1), indicating the involvement of PDK1 in the regulation of S6K. The S6K1 activity was sensitive to osmotic stress, while PDK1 activity was not affected. However, S6K1 sensitivity to osmotic stress was relieved by co-overexpression of RAPTOR1. Overall, these observations demonstrated the existence of a functional TOR kinase pathway in plants. However, Arabidopsis seedlings do not respond to normal physiological levels of rapamycin, which appears to be due its inability to bind to the Arabidopsis homolog of FKBP12, a protein that is essential for the binding of rapamycin with TOR. Replacement of the Arabidopsis FKBP12 with the human FKBP12 allowed rapamycin-dependent interaction with TOR. Since homozygous mutation in TOR is lethal, it suggests that this pathway is essential for integrating the stress signals into the growth regulation.
!~RES~! The Arabidopsis genome contains a single TOR homolog present on chromosome 1, while there are two genes encoding RAPTOR on chromosomes 3 and 5, as previously described (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We obtained cDNAs of TOR and one of RAPTOR (RAPTOR1) by RT-PCR (Figure 1; see Methods for details). Both cDNA sequences were confirmed to be identical to the GenBank annotation, and the TOR cDNA sequence was also found to be identical to the one described by CITATION. TOR and RAPTOR genes were found to be expressed constitutively in various tissues of Arabidopsis at low levels, and the expression levels did not change significantly during different physiological conditions (our unpublished data; see also CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), indicating that TOR may be regulated by some posttranscriptional/translational mechanisms (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Since TOR and RAPTOR in animals are known to interact with each other (CITATION), we examined whether plant RAPTOR1 interacts with the TOR and if this interaction occurs via the HEAT repeat domain of TOR as in the case of animal TOR. To analyze this possible interaction in vivo, we overexpressed glutathione S-transferase (GST)-fused RAPTOR1 (GST-RAPTOR1) and green fluorescent protein (GFP)-fused HEAT repeats of TOR (GFP-TOR-HEAT) constructs in tobacco leaves. The expression was performed in the presence of the tomato bushy stunt virus p19 protein, a system that allows high levels of transient protein expression in plants (CITATION). The GFP-TOR-HEAT protein expressed in tobacco leaves was immunoprecipitated with GFP antibody. Following SDS-PAGE, the proteins were transferred to membrane, and the presence of GST-RAPTOR1 as a coimmunoprecipitant was observed by protein gel blot analysis using GST antibody. As shown in Figure 2, GST-RAPTOR1 was clearly detected in the immunoprecipitate with GFP-TOR-HEAT protein, suggesting that the interaction between TOR and RAPTOR is also conserved in plants and that the TOR-HEAT repeat motif is involved in the interaction. A construct carrying the FKBP12-rapamycin binding (FRB) and the kinase domains of the TOR (GFP-TOR-CT; see Figure 2 legend) did not show any interaction with RAPTOR1 (Figure 2, lanes 2 and 5), supporting the specificity of the interaction between RAPTOR1 and the HEAT repeats of TOR. [[FIGURE]] CITATION and CITATION suggested that S6K2 was the Arabidopsis ortholog of the mammalian p70S6K that has been known to be a downstream component of the mammalian TOR signaling pathway and phosphorylates RPS6. In animals, a closely related isoform, p85S6K, is a product of the same gene using an alternative translational start site and contains an N-terminal nuclear targeting signal (CITATION). This protein is exclusively nuclear and has been suggested to phosphorylate the chromatin-bound nuclear form of RPS6 (CITATION), whereas p70S6K, which is mostly cytoplasmic, is involved in the phosphorylation of RPS6 in the cytoplasmic ribosomes. Protein motif analyses of S6K1 and S6K2 sequences by PSORT (http://psort.ims.u-tokyo.ac.jp/) and by PFSCAN (http://myhits.isb-sib.ch/cgi-bin/motif_scan) predicted S6K2 to contain two putative bipartite nuclear targeting signals (Figure 3E). Subcellular localization results with transiently expressed fusion proteins in BY2 cells were consistent with this prediction. As shown in Figure 3, GFP-S6K2 was mainly confined to nucleus/nucleolus (Figure 3B), while the distribution pattern of GFP-S6K2 (Figure 3A) was similar to that of the GFP control (Figure 3C) but with more protein distributed toward cytoplasm, suggesting that the two Arabidopsis S6K homologs may play distinct functional roles in different subcellular locations. The fact that S6K2 is nuclear localized suggests that it may be the functional equivalent of p85S6K rather than p70S6K. To explore the possibility of S6K1 being the cytoplasmic isoform of S6K acting as a functional homolog of the mammalian p70S6K, we tested its interaction with RAPTOR1 and its ability to phosphorylate the bona fide substrate RPS6. [[FIGURE]] To elucidate the possible link between S6K and TOR signaling pathway in plants, we examined the kinase activity of S6K1 using phosphorylation of RPS6. In addition, we determined a possible link between the S6K1 activity and its interaction with RAPTOR1 by co-overexpression of these proteins. If S6K is under the control of the TOR signaling pathway in plants and is a substrate of TOR kinase, it is likely that S6K would interact with RAPTOR. To determine a direct interaction between S6K1 and RAPTOR1 in vivo, we first isolated Arabidopsis S6K1 and coexpressed transiently the two constructs GFP-S6K1 and GST-RAPTOR1 in tobacco leaves using the p19 system (CITATION). When the expression levels were optimum, as judged by a GFP control (3 to 5 d after agroinfiltration in general), the leaf samples were analyzed, and S6K1 was immunoprecipitated using specific antibodies. Protein gel blot analysis of the immunoprecipitated fraction using GFP antibodies revealed a distinct band corresponding to the size of GFP-S6K1 chimeric protein (Figure 4A, lane 2). The immunoprecipitate from the same fraction using GST antibody, followed by protein gel blot detection with the GST antibody, revealed the presence of a protein equivalent in mass to GST-RAPTOR (Figure 4A, lane 4). These data suggested that S6K1 interacts with RAPTOR1 in vivo, and this interaction appears to be stable. We repeated the coexpression experiments using alternate constructs (i.e., GST-S6K1 and GFP-RAPTOR1), and the immunoprecipitation was performed using GST antibody. As shown in Figure 4B, using GFP antibody we were able to detect in the immunoprecipitate a band that corresponds to the size of GFP-RAPTOR1. At the same time, GST-S6K1 was also detectable, as shown in lane 4. In both Figures 4A and 4B, the control constructs GFP-GUS (Figure 4A, lanes 2 and 5) and GST-GUS (Figure 4B, lanes 2 and 5) coexpressed with GST-RAPTOR1 or GFP-RAPTOR1 did not show any interaction, suggesting that the interaction between S6K1 and RAPTOR1 demonstrated by transient coexpression in this study is highly specific. These two experiments provided conclusive evidence that S6K1 and RAPTOR do interact in vivo. Finally, we tested the ability of S6K1 immunoprecipitate to phosphorylate its substrate, RPS6. For this experiment, an Escherichia coli–expressed C-terminal fragment of Arabidopsis RPS6 fused to GST (GST-RPS6-CT) was used as a substrate for the kinase reaction. As shown in Figure 4C, the GFP-S6K1 immunoprecipitate using GFP antibody was found to be active and able to phosphorylate RPS6. [[FIGURE]] Our data suggests that Arabidopsis S6K1 is more likely to be a functional homolog of animal p70S6K. We do not know if S6K2 also forms a complex with RAPTOR, but the demonstration of the interaction between RAPTOR1 and S6K1, as well as between TOR and RAPTOR1, suggests that S6K is likely to be a downstream component of the TOR signaling pathway in plants. To explore the effect of osmotic stress on S6K1 activity, we expressed the GFP-S6K1 fusion protein in tobacco leaves by agroinfiltration and treated the leaves with different concentrations of mannitol. After homogenization of the leaves, GFP-S6K1 was immunoprecipitated with GFP antibody and was subjected to the kinase assay using GST-RPS6-CT peptide as a substrate. With 5% mannitol treatment, the S6K1 activity showed a significant reduction, although at this concentration, leaf tissues did not undergo any plasmolysis. A quantitative analysis of this data showed that >70% reduction in the S6K1 activity occurred after the treatment with 5% mannitol (Figure 5B). This observation suggests that plant S6K may mediate stress response in controlling the phosphorylation state of RPS6, which is known to affect the rate of translation (CITATION; CITATION). The osmotic stress signal may affect the S6K1 activity via the plant TOR kinase pathway. Alternatively, it may come through the PDK1 pathway, which has also been known to regulate S6K in animal cells (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] PDK1 is known to activate the AGC family of protein kinases, to which S6K belongs, and several PDK1 substrates have been identified, including PKB, S6K, RSK, SGK, and PKC (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). It has been shown that Arabidopsis PDK1 can complement the yeast PDK1 mutation, suggesting the existence of functional conservation of the PDK1 pathway in eukaryotes (CITATION). We examined whether S6K is also phosphorylated by PDK1 in plants. Arabidopsis S6K (both S6K1 and S6K2) contains a putative PDK1 phosphorylation motif on the T-activation loop consensus sequences in its catalytic domain (Figure 6A). We expressed a GFP-PDK1 construct in tobacco leaves through agroinfiltration and immunoprecipitated the fusion protein with GFP antibody. The immunoprecipitate was then subjected to a kinase assay using the GST-S6K1 catalytic domain (GST-S6K1-CD; amino acid residues 134 to 389) expressed in E. coli as a substrate to determine the PDK1 activity. The observations from mammalian cells indicated that the phosphorylation of S6K catalytic domain by PDK1 occurs only after a series of consecutive phosphorylations on the C terminus of S6K mediated by TOR. The GFP-PDK1 immunoprecipitate was able to phosphorylate the S6K1 catalytic domain in a time-dependent manner as shown in Figure 6B, indicating that plant PDK1 is also involved in the activation of pS6K. We further determined if plant PDK1 activity is affected by osmotic stress, rapamycin, or wortmannin. Wortmannin is a potent inhibitor of phosphoinositide-3 kinase (PI-3K) and is known to inactivate PDK1 in mammalian cells, an indication that PDK1 is a downstream component of the PI-3K pathway in animal cells (CITATION; CITATION). We overexpressed GFP-PDK1 in tobacco leaves and treated a set of leaves with rapamycin (30 μg/mL), mannitol (5%), NaCl (150 mM), or wortmannin (300 nM). As shown in Figure 6C, PDK1 activity was not responsive to osmotic stress, rapamycin, or salt treatments but was very sensitive to wortmannin. These data showed that the downregulation of S6K1 activity upon osmotic stress is not mediated through inactivation of the PDK1 pathway. Thus, it suggests that the osmotic stress signal is most likely to affect the TOR pathway to regulate the S6K activity in plants. [[FIGURE]] Our data showed that S6K1 interacts with RAPTOR1, and RAPTOR1, in turn, interacts with the HEAT repeats of TOR, suggesting a functional link between these proteins in plants. Our data also suggested that the osmotic stress signal is likely to affect S6K activity through the TOR pathway in plants. Osmotic stress may inhibit TOR kinase activity upstream in the signaling pathway, resulting in the downregulation of S6K1. Alternatively, the osmotic stress may regulate S6K1 activity downstream of the TOR kinase, antagonizing the positive effect of TOR pathway on the S6K1 activity. In order to distinguish these two possibilities, we co-overexpressed GFP-S6K1 and GST-RAPTOR1 in tobacco leaves by agroinfiltration and treated the leaves with 5% mannitol. The leaf tissues were then homogenized and GFP-S6K1 was immunoprecipitated with GFP antibody. The activity of S6K1 was measured by subjecting the immunoprecipitate to the kinase assay. As shown in Figure 7, osmotic stress treatment significantly reduced the activity of S6K1 (lane 1, compare with lane 5). However, the coexpression of RAPTOR alleviated the osmotic stress effect on the activity of S6K1 (Figure 7, lane 2). If osmotic stress regulates the S6K1 activity by inhibition of TOR kinase activity, coexpression of RAPTOR, which is a downstream component of TOR, would have a neutral or additive effect on the S6K1 inhibition. Thus, the data appear to suggest that the osmotic stress affects S6K1 activity downstream of the TOR kinase. The overexpression of RAPTOR probably brings endogenous TOR in closer proximity to its substrate S6K (CITATION; CITATION), alleviating the inhibition of S6K under osmotic stress conditions. In order to verify that this effect is indeed RAPTOR specific and requires the function of TOR, we overexpressed TOR-HEAT repeats together with GST-RAPTOR1 and GFP-S6K1 and examined the possible effect of TOR-HEAT repeats. As a nonfunctional fragment that can still interact with RAPTOR1, the TOR-HEAT repeats coexpressed with RAPTOR1 may abrogate the protective effect of RAPTOR on the S6K1 activity under the osmotic stress condition. As shown in Figure 7 (lane 3, compare with lane 2), the co-overexpression of TOR-HEAT repeats restored the sensitivity of S6K1 to osmotic stress in the presence of RAPTOR1. The overexpression of TOR-HEAT repeats along with RAPTOR1 appears to have diluted out the RAPTOR effect on the S6K1 activity. This could have been further verified using the full-length TOR where the kinase domain is present; however, we have not been successful in overexpressing the full-length TOR yet. [[FIGURE]] We generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing S6K1 under the 35S promoter. Overexpression of S6K1 was confirmed by RNA gel blot analysis (data not shown). These plants apparently exhibited no distinct phenotype as compared with the wild type or control transgenic plants expressing the vector alone. However, upon treatment with mannitol, the transgenic seeds of the S6K1-transformed line were found to be overly sensitive to osmotic stress (Figure 8). This does not appear to be due to any germination problem because under normal conditions the germination of the untreated S6K1 transgenic line was similar to the control transgenic plants expressing the vector construct alone (Figure 8E). This observation supports the hypothesis that having S6K activity slowed down under osmotic stress conditions is one of the main mechanisms employed by the plants to sustain harsh environmental conditions. [[FIGURE]] We observed that rapamycin does not inhibit the growth of Arabidopsis seedlings at levels that are effective in yeast and mammalian cells (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Although we could not rule out the possibility that rapamycin has a lower permeability to the plant cells, that is rather unlikely because rapamycin enters easily in all other eukaryotic cells so far tested. Since the growth inhibitory effect of rapamycin on the cells is known to be due to the formation of an inhibitory complex involving the TOR-FRB domain, rapamycin, and FKBP12 (CITATION; CITATION), we tested if plant homolog of FKBP12 associates with the Arabidopsis TOR-FRB domain in a rapamycin-dependent manner, as is the case with mammalian TOR. For this, we performed both a two-hybrid interaction study and a direct binding assay with in vitro–synthesized and labeled TOR-FRB peptide (Figure 9). The labeled peptide was incubated with either GST-At FKBP12 or GST-human FKBP12 (Hs FKBP12). Consistent with a previous observation made with a yeast two-hybrid system (CITATION), neither the yeast two-hybrid analysis nor the in vitro translation data could demonstrate a rapamycin-dependent interaction between Arabidopsis FKBP12 and the TOR-FRB domain. Interestingly, in the same experiment, the TOR-FRB domain was able to form a complex with Hs FKBP12. These results suggested that there might be some mutation in the amino acid sequence of the plant FKBP12, rendering it insensitive to rapamycin and thus preventing it from forming an inhibitory complex with the plant TOR. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Total RNA was isolated from leaves of 2-week-old Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings (ecotype Columbia) using Trizol reagent (Invitrogen) following the manufacturer's instructions. Approximately 2 μg of total RNA prepared by the above method was used in each RT-PCR reaction using the Thermoscript RT-PCR system (Invitrogen) following the standard amplification conditions. The full-length cDNA of the TOR gene on chromosome 1 (At1g50030) was cloned by RT-PCR using the Thermoscript RT-PCR system following the manufacturer's protocol. Since this cDNA is very long, 7.67 kb, we attempted to amplify it in three overlapping fragments that were fused together upon cloning using specific restriction enzymes (BspEI and EcoICRI) to generate the full-length clone (Figure 1A). The following three primer pairs were used to generate the three overlapping PCR fragments: TOR F1, 5′-GCCCTGCAGCGATGTCTACCTCGTCGC-3′; TOR R1, 5′-GCATCAGCTCCGGAATATATTGTCTC-3′; TOR F2, 5′-CAAGAGTGGGTGGCTTGGCAATGAGAC-3′; TOR R2, 5′-ACCTCCTCTAGTTCTGACAGCTGCTG-3′; TOR F3, 5′-TCAGCAGCTGTCAGAACTAGAGGAGG-3′; TOR R3, 5′-TCACCAGAAAGGGCACCACCCAACATAG-3′. The initial PCR cloning and the subsequent fragment fusion were performed in pCR2.1 vector (Invitrogen). The entire region of the obtained full-length TOR cDNA was sequenced and confirmed to be identical to the GenBank database (NM_103891) and the one described by CITATION. The TOR cDNA consists of 56 exons and predicts a protein product of 279 kD, which contains all the conserved domains found in the mammalian TOR, including HEAT repeats, FAT domain, FRB domain, kinase domain, and the FATc domain (Figure 1B). For downstream applications, including protein expression and mutagenesis, the full-length TOR cDNA in pCR2.1 was subcloned into the Gateway entry vector pENTR1A (Invitrogen) and subsequently moved in to appropriate destination vectors. Cloning of Arabidopsis RAPTOR homolog (RAPTOR1) was achieved by RT-PCR amplification of At3g08850 cDNA. As with the TOR cDNA cloning, its cDNA was amplified as three overlapping fragments to be joined together by unique restriction enzyme sites (StuI and XbaI). Using the Thermoscript RT-PCR kit, Arabidopsis leaf RNA was amplified with the following primer sets corresponding to the sequences surrounding the unique restriction enzyme sites in the deduced RAPTOR1 (At3g08850) exons (Figure 1C): RapF1, 5′-GAATTCATGGCATTAGGAGACTTAATGGT-3′; RapF2, 5′-GAATTCGCTCTTGTACTTCTTGGAAGATT-3′; RapF3, 5′-GAATTCAACTACCTGAGTGGATTGAGGA-3′; RapR1, 5′-CTCGTCGATGTCCATCCACAATGACAGCCAGAAC-3′; RapR2, 5′-GGCGGTACCATTTAAATTTGACTAGCATCCGCACCA-3′; RapR3, 5′-CCCGGGAAATGCACCCGAGCTATCTAGA-3′. The products of these three independent reactions were cloned in pCR2.1 vector and subsequently joined together in the Gateway entry vector pENTR1A (Invitrogen). The identity of the full-length clone was confirmed by sequencing. The full-length RAPTOR cDNA was then moved in to various Gateway downstream vectors for protein expression in Escherichia coli as well as in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) leaves. Arabidopsis ribosomal S6K1 (ATPK6) and S6K2 (ATPK19) cDNAs (CITATION) were cloned by PCR amplification from an Arabidopsis leaf cDNA library. The PCR primers were designed to cover 5′- and 3′-untranslated regions of the corresponding mRNAs to ensure specificity of the PCR amplification because their coding regions are highly homologous to each other. The amplified PCR products were directly cloned into the Gateway entry vector pENTR1A (Invitrogen), and the sequences were verified by DNA sequencing. Various fusion protein constructs of these clones were made either by transferring them to appropriate Gateway destination vectors through LR recombination reaction (Invitrogen) or by restriction digestion–based subcloning into the target vectors. The GST-human FKBP12 fusion construct was a kind gift from Jie Chen (University of Illinois, Urbana-Champlain, IL). Full-length cDNA clones of Arabidopsis FKBP12 homolog (FKBP12; At5g64350) and Arabidopsis 40S ribosomal protein S6 (RPS6B; At5g10360) were obtained by PCR amplification of the corresponding cDNA libraries. The PCR products were directly cloned into pGEX-KG vector (CITATION) to generate GST-fusion proteins. The GST-fusion protein clone of the RPS6 C-terminal end (GST-RPS6-CT) was generated by PCR cloning of the amino acid residues 150 to 249 of GST-RPS6. The GST-S6K1 catalytic domain fusion construct (GST-S6K1-CD) was generated by PCR amplification and subcloning of the S6K1 catalytic domain (amino acid residues 134 to 389) into pGEX-KG vector. E. coli cells containing the GST-fusion protein clones were induced with 1 mM isopropylthio-β-galactoside, and the protein was purified essentially as described by CITATION. Bacteria producing the recombinant protein were pelleted and resuspended in 5 mM phosphate buffer, pH 6.8, containing 1 mM EDTA and 5 mM β-mercaptoethanol. The pellet was resuspended in STE buffer (10 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 1 mM EDTA, and 150 mM NaCl). Lysozyme was added, the suspension was incubated on ice for 15 min, and 1 mM DTT was added just before sonication. Sonication was done several times, 1 min each, with incubation on ice after each sonication. The lysate was centrifuged at 14,000 rpm on a swing bucket centrifuge, and the supernatant was taken and incubated with agarose beads for binding at 4°C for 30 min. After rigorous washes with STE buffer containing Triton X-100 (0.2%), β-mercaptoethanol (2 mM), and PMSF (10 mM), small aliquots of agarose beads containing the bound proteins were checked for the purity of purification on SDS-PAGE. GST-RPS6 protein was used in the kinase assay as bound to the beads without further purification. Both GST-At FKBP12 and GST-Hs FKBP12 were subjected to further purification by elution with 50 mM glutathione and dialysis before use in the in vitro binding assays. The TOR-FRB domain (amino acids 1980 to 2280) was subcloned by PCR into pAGA3 vector (CITATION). Using the in vitro TNT quick coupled transcription/translation system (Promega), [35S]Met-labeled Arabidopsis FRB domain was prepared according to the manufacturer's instructions. Briefly, 1 μg of pAGA3 plasmid containing the Arabidopsis FRB cDNA was incubated with TNT reticulocyte lysate and 20 μCi of [35S]Met in a total volume of 50 μL for 90 min at 30°C. The labeling efficiency and the level of protein expression were evaluated by SDS-PAGE and autoradiography. Mutations in the FRB domain of TOR were made using the Quick Change kit (Stratagene) according to the manufacture's instructions. The following two pairs of primers were used to generate two mutations in two sites, W193F and S194T: TOR-WF-F, 5′-GCCATACTTTGGCATGAAATGTTTCATGAAGCACTAGAAGAAGC-3′; TOR-WF-R, 5′-GCTTCTTCTAGTGCTTCATGAAACATTTCATGCCAAAGTATGGC-3′; TOR-ST-F, 5′-GAAGCACTAGAAGAAGCTACTCGCTTGTATTTTGGTGAAC-3′; TOR-ST-R, 5′-GTTCACCAAAATACAAGCGAGTAGCTTCTTCTAGTGCTTC-3′. GST-FKBP12 expressed and purified from E. coli was premixed with rapamycin in 1 mL of binding buffer (PBS with 1 mM DTT and 0.3% Triton X-100) at a concentration of 1 μM each, followed by addition of 1 μM FRB protein and brief incubation on ice. Glutathione-Sepharose (20 μL) was then added to the mixture and rocked at 4°C for 1 h. The matrix was subsequently washed three times in 1 mL of binding buffer, boiled in SDS sample buffer, and loaded on a 15% SDS-PAGE gel. The two-hybrid strain SMY4 (TOR1-3 fpr1::ADE2) is an isogenic derivative of strain Y190 (MATatrp1-901 his3 leu2-3112 ura3-52 ade2 gal4 gal80 URA3::GAL-lacZ LYS2::GAL-HIS3; CITATION) in which the endogenous TOR1 and FKBP12 genes were disabled (CITATION). Gal4(AD)-fusion constructs of Arabidopsis FKBP12 and human FKBP12, as well as Gal4(BD)-fusion constructs of TOR-FRB wild type and mutants, were prepared by PCR subcloning. Yeast strain SMY4 was grown in yeast extract/peptone/dextrose or supplemented synthetic dextrose medium. Transformation of yeast was performed using the lithium acetate method with carrier DNA (CITATION). Yeast colonies transformed with the fusion vectors were selected on synthetic medium lacking uracil, Trp, and/or Leu. For β-galactosidase assays, yeast transformants were grown at 30°C in liquid synthetic medium (SD) with selection (Trp-Leu). Rapamycin was added at a concentration of 1.0 μg/mL when necessary. β-Galactosidase activity was measured with the substrate o-nitrophenyl-d-galactopyranoside following the protocol described by CITATION. Each independent transformant was assayed in quadruplets. The 35S::p19 and 35S::mGFP5 constructs were described previously (CITATION). The 35S::RAPTOR-GFP fusion construct was made by mobilization of the full-length RAPTOR cDNA from pENTR1A into pB2WG7 vector (CITATION) through LR recombination reaction following the manufacturer's instructions (Invitrogen). The 35S::GFP-S6K1 was constructed by PCR amplification of S6K1 cloned in pENTR1A and subsequent subcloning into pEGAD vector (CITATION) via BamHI and SmaI restriction digestion and ligation. The 35S::GSTS6K2 was constructed by first cloning S6K2 into pGEX-KG to generate GST-S6K2 fusion protein and then by subcloning the GST-S6K2 open reading frame into pENTR1A and LR recombination reaction with pH2WG7 vector (CITATION). Agroinfiltration procedure for the transient protein expression in tobacco leaves was basically performed according to the method described by CITATION. Briefly, Agrobacterium tumefaciens strains ABI, C58C1, and GV3101 carrying binary constructs were grown at 29°C in Luria-Bertani medium with antibiotic selection and acetosyringone to stationary phase. Bacterial cells were collected by centrifugation at 6000g for 15 min at room temperature and resuspended in 10 mM MgCl2 and 150 μg/mL of acetosyringone. For cotransfections, Agrobacterium cultures carrying different constructs were mixed at equal ratio and left for 6 h at room temperature before infiltration. Leaves of 2-week-old Nicotiana benthamiana plants were infiltrated with the bacterial cultures through abaxial air spaces. In all experiments, Agrobacterium C58C1 carrying the 35S:p19 construct (CITATION) was cotransfected to achieve maximum level of protein expression. The treatments of osmotic stress and inhibitors in Figures 5 to 7 were achieved by a similar manner as described by CITATION. Briefly, 3 to 4 d after the agroinfiltration of the DNA constructs for transient protein expression, solutions containing a desired concentration of mannitol (up to 5%), salt (150 mM NaCl), rapamycin (30 μg/mL), wortmannin (300 nM), or control (water) were infiltrated to the same leaves, and protein extraction was performed after 30 min. Rapamycin and wortmannin were initially dissolved in DMSO and then diluted with water to make the desired concentration right before the treatment. Arabidopsis plants (ecotype Columbia) were grown at 21°C with 16 h of light (100 μmol photons m−2 s−1) per day and 60% humidity. Plant transformation was performed by the floral dip technique (CITATION) using Agrobacterium strain GV3101 containing pB2WG7 vector with Arabidopsis S6K1 insert. Transformants were recovered by sowing seeds into soil. Ten-day-old seedlings were sprayed by Basta at a concentration of 20 mg/L or 1:1500 dilution. For each transformation, 20 to 24 transformants were screened for expression of the transgene. One transformant from each transgenic line was used for detailed characterization. Plants were grown for 4 to 7 d on plates containing sterile solidified MS medium supplemented with 3% sucrose and 5% mannitol. Three independent transgenic lines were used in the osmotic stress treatment (mannitol) experiments illustrated in Figure 8. The germination rate of these transgenic lines under normal conditions was >95%, which was comparable to the control transgenic line transformed with vector alone (Figure 8E). Agroinfiltrated tobacco leaves were collected generally 5 d after infiltration. The leaves were ground in liquid nitrogen, and the powder was resuspended in 200 μL of IP buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 5 mM EDTA, 1% Triton X-100, 1 mM DTT, and freshly added protease/phosphatase inhibitors: 10 μg/mL of pepstatin, antipain, leupeptin, 1 mM PMSF, 1 mM NaVO3, and 5 mM NaF) on ice for 3 min and vortexed briefly. Antibody was added (GST antibody from Santa Cruz Biotechnology [catalog number SC-459] and GFP antibody from Molecular Probes [catalog number A-11122]), and the samples were incubated at 4°C for 1 to 2 h with gentle rocking. Five microliters of protein-A agarose beads (Amersham) was added to each sample and rocked for another 1 h at 4°C. The beads were washed with 200 μL of the IP buffer with 0.1% SDS five times. The beads were then resuspended in 30 μL of SDS sample buffer and heated at 95°C for 3 min before loading onto 10 to 15% SDS-PAGE for protein gel blot analysis. After transferring the protein samples to nitrocellulose membrane (Millipore), immunodetection using the GST antibody or GFP antibody was performed as described previously (CITATION). For in vitro kinase assay, the final immunoprecipitates were resuspended in kinase buffer (20 mM HEPES, pH 7.5, 125 mM NaCl, 1 mM DTT, 10 mM MgCl2, and 5 mM MnCl2), and the reaction was performed at 25°C by adding 100 μM cold ATP and 0.1 μCi [γ-32P]ATP (Perkin-Elmer) in the presence of GST-fusion substrate protein. The reaction was stopped by adding 5× SDS sample buffer and heating at 95°C for 5 min. Samples were then run on SDS-PAGE followed by autoradiography. Aliquots of the samples were also subjected to protein gel blotting to ensure equal loading of the samples and normalization for quantitative analysis of the result. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers At1g50030 (TOR), At3g08850 (RAPTOR1), At3g08730 (S6K1), At3g08720 (S6K2), At5g64350 (FKBP12), and At5g10360 (RPS6B).
