!~ABS~! Dividing plant cells perform a remarkable task of building a new cell wall within the cytoplasm in a few minutes. A long-standing paradigm claims that this primordial cell wall, known as the cell plate, is generated by delivery of newly synthesized material from Golgi apparatus-originated secretory vesicles. Here, we show that, in diverse plant species, cell surface material, including plasma membrane proteins, cell wall components, and exogenously applied endocytic tracers, is rapidly delivered to the forming cell plate. Importantly, this occurs even when de novo protein synthesis is blocked. In addition, cytokinesis-specific syntaxin KNOLLE as well as plasma membrane (PM) resident proteins localize to endosomes that fuse to initiate the cell plate. The rate of endocytosis is strongly enhanced during cell plate formation, and its genetic or pharmacological inhibition leads to cytokinesis defects. Our results reveal that endocytic delivery of cell surface material significantly contributes to cell plate formation during plant cytokinesis.
!~RES~! The fluorescent lipophilic styryl dye FM4-64 has been used in a number of plant studies as an authentic in vivo endocytic marker. It labels the PM, is taken up into the cell interior only by endocytosis, and, afterward, it gradually labels the entire endosomal pathway toward the vacuole ( CITATION ). Therefore, we employed FM4-64 for studying the dynamics of endocytosis during cytokinesis in real time. FM4-64 was applied to a well-established tobacco bright yellow-2 (BY-2) cell line, transformed with a GFP fusion protein labeling microtubules in vivo, facilitating visualization of the cell cycle stage ( CITATION ). FM4-64 internalized in mitotic BY-2 cells and accumulated inside the spindle region within a few minutes ( CITATION A). In telophase, FM4-64-labeled vesicles occupied the newly available space between separating chromosomes, and, subsequently, FM4-64 extensively labeled emerging cell plates (even stronger than the parental PM), from the very first signs of their appearance ( CITATION A; CITATION ; see the CITATION available with this article online). Also during cell plate expansion, the constitutive incorporation of many FM4-64-stained endomembrane structures at cell plate edges was observed, suggesting continuous delivery of endocytosed material ( CITATION ). Identical results were obtained in dividing root tip cells after FM4-64 application to Arabidopsis seedlings (not shown). To test the possibility that rapid delivery of FM4-64 into cell plates occurs via transient connections between parental PM and the forming cell plate ( CITATION ), we performed both 3D optical sectioning and fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP) analysis. We followed dividing cells from metaphase onward and acquired time-lapse data by scanning median longitudinal sections. 3D optical sectioning comprised of both median longitudinal and top views showed the emergence and expansion of the cell plates at the cell center without their immediate attachment to any side of the parental PM ( CITATION B–S1D). To compare the speed of FM4-64 delivery to the cell plate in the case of unattached and attached cell plates, we photobleached FM4-64 at the cell plate and followed its recovery kinetics. After complete photobleaching of FM4-64 at initiating cell plates (that are not yet attached to any side of the parental PM) in both BY-2 (not shown) and Arabidopsis cells ( CITATION B; CITATION ), a rapid reappearance of about 40% of the initial FM4-64 fluorescence was observed at the photobleached cell plate area with a half time of ∼80 s ( CITATION D). FRAP analysis of cell plates attached to their parental PMs displayed a much more extensive (80%) and faster (half time of ∼8 s) reappearance of FM4-64 ( CITATION C and 1D; CITATION ). This result demonstrates that FM4-64 is typically delivered to nonattached cell plates by endocytic vesicles and not by a direct connection with the parental PM. Next, we performed FM4-64 pulse-chase experiments in BY-2 cells by complete washing out of FM4-64 after its application. Clearly, FM4-64 labeled first the peripheries of already initiated cell plates, and, afterward, it was distributed all along the cell plate ( CITATION A). This shows polarized delivery of FM4-64 at the edges of the forming cell plate. Furthermore, FM4-64 fluorescence gradually increased on the expanding cell plate at the expense of its fluorescence at the PM (see the successive frames in CITATION A), implying active transport against a concentration gradient. Together, these results imply active and selective internalization as well as polarized delivery of the endocytic marker FM4-64 from the PM to forming cell plates. To investigate whether, besides membrane material, extracellular fluid can also be delivered to the cell plate by endocytosis, we used the membrane-impermeable pinocytic fluid-phase markers Alexa 633 (Alexa) and Lucifer Yellow (LY) ( CITATION ). Strikingly, we observed that both Alexa ( CITATION E and 1F) and LY ( CITATION G) internalized in dividing cells and accumulated within the volume occupied by forming cell plates. Again, these cell plates were not attached to the parental PM (see the top view of a cell in CITATION F). Also, in maize root cells, LY localized to forming cell plates, which were specifically marked with the callose marker Aniline Blue ( CITATION G). Together these results demonstrate that endocytic lipophilic and (extracellular) fluid-phase markers are constitutively internalized and rapidly targeted into initiating and expanding cell plates. As the results with fluorescent endocytic markers suggested continuous delivery of cell surface-derived material to the cell plate, we investigated what happens to PM-resident proteins during cytokinesis. For this, we performed coimmunolocalization studies in Arabidopsis root tips by using the cell plate marker KNOLLE ( CITATION ). All tested PM proteins, including the auxin transport facilitator PIN2 ( CITATION ) ( CITATION A), the PM water channel PIP2 ( CITATION ) ( CITATION C), the integral PM protein LTI6b ( CITATION ) ( CITATION E), dynamin ( CITATION ) ( CITATION C), and the brassinolide receptor BRI1 ( CITATION ) ( CITATION E), clearly localized to KNOLLE-labeled forming cell plates as well as KNOLLE-labeled endomembrane structures ( CITATION A, 2C, and 2E; CITATION C and S2E). These results demonstrate targeting of the PM proteins/receptors to the forming cell plate. Next, we tested the fate of the CW-derived material during cytokinesis. Early cell plates are enriched with CW pectins. However, unlike the mature CWs, they also contain callose, but hardly any cellulose ( CITATION ). Recently, it has been reported that interphase maize root cells internalize pectins from parental CWs ( CITATION ). We performed a pectin-immunolocalization study in both BY-2 cells and maize root cells by using different sets of antibodies specifically recognizing pectins found either exclusively in mature CWs or in Golgi apparatus-derived vesicles. The antibodies used include rhamnogalacturonan II (RGII), recognizing de muro-formed RGII dimers crosslinked by borate diol diester ( CITATION ); JIM5, recognizing partially esterified (up to 40%) CW homogalacturonan pectins; and JIM7, labeling esterified (up to 80%) homogalacturonan pectins present mainly within Golgi apparatus-derived vesicles ( CITATION ). Remarkably, the forming cell plates in both maize and BY-2 cells were strongly labeled with the RGII ( CITATION G and 2H; CITATION G and S2H) and JIM5 ( CITATION I; CITATION I and S2J) antibodies rather than the JIM7 antibodies ( CITATION J; CITATION K). The crosslinking of RGII pectins is well known to occur exclusively within mature parental CW ( CITATION ), demonstrating that parental CW-derived material gets internalized into the cell plate. In summary, these results suggest that both parental PM- and CW-derived material is targeted to the cell plate. Our results indicated that already preexisting material at the cell surface is used for cell plate formation. Therefore, next, we investigated the contribution of de novo synthesis. Cycloheximide (CHX) is used generally as a potent blocker of protein synthesis. It is also highly effective in the plant systems at a 50 μM concentration for 30 min, as was demonstrated by [ 35 S]-methionine incorporation analysis in Arabidopsis root cells ( CITATION ). After FM4-64 application to BY-2 cells pretreated with 50 μM CHX for 1 hr, we found that cell plates can still be initiated and labeled by FM4-64 (not shown). Also, Arabidopsis cells pretreated with CHX for 1–2 hr displayed cell plate initiation and localization of all tested PM proteins to KNOLLE-labeled forming cell plates ( CITATION B, 2D and 2F; CITATION B, S2D, and S2F). In addition, maize root cells pretreated with CHX for 1–2 hr displayed forming cell plates together with cell plate targeting of RGII ( CITATION L). These results demonstrate that cell plate initiation and localization of PM-resident proteins and CW pectins to forming cell plates do not strictly depend on de novo synthesis. This further confirms that cell surface material can be used for cell plate formation. Delivery of cell surface material to the cell plate likely involves endocytosis, whereas newly synthesized material is supposed to arrive by Golgi apparatus-dependent secretion. Therefore, we examined the dynamics of endosomes and Golgi apparatus during cytokinesis by using the established markers. We used BY-2 cells and Arabidopsis plants transformed with GFP-Ara7 (a Rab5 homolog labeling endosomes) ( CITATION ) and ST-YFP (sialyl transferase labeling trans -Golgi) ( CITATION ). The authenticity of endosomal and Golgi labeling in BY-2 and Arabidopsis cells was thoroughly investigated and confirmed in interphase cells by using a variety of colocalization and drug studies (see CITATION , CITATION , and CITATION ). In dividing BY-2 and Arabidopsis cells during spindle assembly, the endosomes were always distributed throughout the spindle area, and their apparent fusion coincided and colocalized with cell plate initiations ( CITATION A–3F and 3H; CITATION A; CITATION ). In contrast, trans -Golgi remained around the spindle apparatus and never localized into its inside space during cell plate initiation ( CITATION A and 3E; CITATION ). The trans -Golgi moved inward toward assembling cell plates only after cell plates were initiated ( CITATION A; CITATION ) and likely supplied exocytic products needed for their expansion. During these later stages, endosomal and trans -Golgi organization around the cell plate appeared more complex and interconnected ( CITATION G; CITATION ). The secretory inhibitor BFA has been used in many studies to visualize endosomal aggregations ( CITATION ). Therefore, we used BFA to better visualize endosomes and investigate whether endosomal aggregations can initiate and expand cell plates. When BFA was applied to either BY-2 or Arabidopsis cells, FM4-64-labeled endosomal aggregates (but not the ST-YFP-labeled trans -Golgi) were observed to participate both in cell plate initiation ( CITATION D; CITATION A; CITATION ) and expansion ( CITATION D; CITATION B and S6C; CITATION ). These in vivo real-time observations were further confirmed by immunolocalization studies in Arabidopsis . In fixed Arabidopsis roots, the cis -Golgi marker γ COP ( CITATION ) ( CITATION B) and the trans -Golgi network (TGN) marker TLG2a ( CITATION ) ( CITATION C) did not localize significantly to the KNOLLE-positive cell plate. However, all endosomal markers tested, such as GNOM-Myc ( CITATION ), Ara6 ( CITATION ), and Ara7 ( CITATION ) clearly localized to the forming cell plates ( CITATION ). To examine the localization of endosomal markers to cell plates at the substructural level, we prepared ultrathin sections from high-pressure, fixed-freeze substituted Arabidopsis roots and subjected them to immunogold labeling with Ara6 and Ara7 antibodies that have been extensively tested before ( CITATION ). This analysis showed Ara6 ( CITATION A–4C) and Ara7 ( CITATION A) labeling at the cell plate matrix and associated vesicles, whereas no labeling was detected when primary antibodies were omitted ( CITATION B). Quantitative evaluation of Ara6 immunogold labeling in dividing cells (n = 6 in three independent experiments) revealed 14.3 ± 2.2 (mean ± standard error) gold particles to be targeted to the cell plate and surrounding endosomes, whereas it revealed 3.9 ± 1.3 gold particles to be cytoplasmic. In the case of Ara7, immunogold labeling in dividing cells (n = 3 in two independent experiments) revealed 6.7 ± 1.3 gold particles to be targeted to the cell plate and surrounding endosomes, whereas it revealed 1.6 ± 0.5 gold particles to be cytoplasmic. Analysis of different cell plate stages revealed that both the cell plate and cell plate vesicles contained these endosomal markers during initiation ( CITATION A and 4B) and expansion ( CITATION C) of cell plates. The gold label was mostly associated with the surface of electron-transparent vesicles and less with electron-dense cell plate vesicles with diameters between 50 and 65 nm. The ultrastructural analysis shows that both cell plate matrix and cell plate vesicles contain endosomal markers Ara6 and Ara7 ( CITATION ). Similar results were obtained when antibodies, which recognize parental CW pectins, were used for immunogold labeling ( CITATION ). Together, these results reveal that endosomal vesicles are included in initiating and expanding cell plates, whereas fusion of endomembranes labeled with a trans -Golgi marker for cell plate initiation is not detected. This again highlights the involvement of endocytosis in cell plate formation. The cytokinesis-specific syntaxin KNOLLE is one of the best-characterized mediators of vesicle fusion for cell plate formation ( CITATION ). Surprisingly, not only the cell plate-based, but also the intracellular KNOLLE signal, colocalized with endosomal markers Ara7 ( CITATION B) and Ara6 ( CITATION C and 5D). The endosomal identity of the KNOLLE-containing intracellular structures was further confirmed by wortmannin treatment. Wortmannin is known to induce the swelling of specific endosomal structures ( CITATION ) (see CITATION Q–S3S). Significantly, KNOLLE displayed its localization on these swelled vesicles ( CITATION E) together with endosomal marker Ara7 (see inset in CITATION E). In the case of BFA-treated cells, in which the cell plates have already been initiated, KNOLLE mainly localized to the interior of BFA compartments that fused with the edges of the cell plate ( CITATION H). The interior of these compartments also contains endosomal markers such as GNOM-Myc ( CITATION G) and recycling PM proteins such as PIN2 ( CITATION F), the PM water channel PIP2 ( CITATION H), and PM-localized LTI6b ( CITATION I). In contrast, γ COP-labeled cis -Golgi localized to the periphery ( CITATION H). Also, in maize, BFA treatment induced formation of large blobs and colocalization of CW/endocytic pectin RGII and PIN1 at the expanding peripheries of the plates resembling “cell plate edge BFA compartments” ( CITATION D and S6E). Together, these results suggest that during cytokinesis KNOLLE localizes to endosomes, and fusion of these endosomes initiates or expands cell plates. It has been shown that during preprophase (well before cell plate initiation) KNOLLE accumulates intracellularly, and that during cytokinesis it is included in the cell plate ( CITATION ). Accordingly, in premitotic cells, KNOLLE colocalized with endosomal Ara6 ( CITATION D), and upon BFA treatment KNOLLE colocalized with internalized PIN1 ( CITATION F), PIN2 ( CITATION F), and the PM water channel PIP2 ( CITATION H) in BFA compartments that were surrounded by γ COP-labeled cis -Golgi ( CITATION G). We further confirmed endosomal localization of KNOLLE by biochemical means by using protein cofractionation analysis. On sucrose gradients, KNOLLE cofractionated with endosomal markers Ara7 and FYVE-GFP ( CITATION ), but not with Golgi marker 58K ( CITATION ) ( CITATION I). Together, these results demonstrate that the regulator of cell plate formation KNOLLE at least partially localizes to endosomes before cell plate initiation. Since our data showed that cell plate material is rapidly derived from the cell surface by endocytosis, we determined the rate of endocytosis in interphase and mitotic cells by quantifying FM4-64 internalization in Arabidopsis cells. In interphase cells, internalization of FM4-64 was at least 2-fold lower compared to that of cytokinetic cells ( CITATION A and 6B) (i.e., even excluding the cell plate-localized FM4-64 signal during quantification of FM4-64 intensity). In support, it has been shown that expression of endosomal regulator Ara7 is upregulated during cell division ( CITATION ). These observations show that the rate of endocytosis is cell cycle-dependent and upregulated during cytokinesis. Our results strongly suggest the importance of endocytosis for cell plate formation. To test this notion, we examined the impact of inhibition of endocytosis on cytokinesis. The endocytic pathway can be inhibited by cold treatment, wortmannin [affecting endosome morphology ( CITATION and this study)], and sodium azide ( CITATION ). All of these treatments reversibly slowed down or blocked FM4-64 internalization and also cell plate formation (not shown). To interfere with endocytosis more specifically, we genetically manipulated Rab5 (Ara7) function. In mammalian cells, Rab5 (ortholog of Ara7) is required for early endosome fusion in vitro ( CITATION ), and it regulates transport between the PM and early endosomes, in vivo ( CITATION ). Proper functioning of Rab5 depends on its alternating GTP and GDP bound states. By a specific mutation, Rab5 can be locked in its GDP state, which interferes with its function since it keeps Rab5 cytosolic rather than in its active state on membranes ( CITATION ). It has been shown before that GDP-locked Rab5 interferes with endocytosis ( CITATION ). To test the effects of this genetic interference with endocytosis on cell plate formation, we made a dominant-negative (DN) GDP-locked state Ara7 by replacing S24N ( CITATION ) and introduced it into cowpea protoplasts and into BY-2 cells by transfection. In both cell systems, DN-Ara7 appeared in cytosol (compare CITATION C with CITATION D and CITATION A with CITATION C), and FM4-64 internalization was drastically reduced (compare CITATION C with CITATION D and CITATION B with CITATION D), confirming an inhibitory effect of DN-Ara7 on endocytosis. The extent of endocytosis inhibition by DN-Ara7 was always correlated to its expression level (not shown). To investigate the effects of DN-Ara7 expression on cell plate formation in Arabidopsis , we attempted to obtain DN-Ara7-transformed plants. We failed to recover Arabidopsis plants transformed with a 35S::DN-Ara7 (not shown). Therefore, we expressed DN-Ara7 only within specific cell types (by using a two-component transactivation system) ( CITATION ) or conditionally (by using a tamoxifen-inducible expression system) ( CITATION ). DN-Ara7 expression was driven by the Arabidopsis ribosomal protein S5A (RPS5A) promoter, which is active specifically in dividing cells ( CITATION ). RPS5A-transactivated plants were selected based on their resistance to the selection marker as well as on the basis of the expression of coregulated GFP, which was mainly found in the root and shoot meristems as reported before ( CITATION ). The positive plants expressing RPS5A>>DN-Ara7 remained small compared to the controls even 3 weeks after germination ( CITATION E). In addition, these plants displayed abnormalities in their root tip architecture (compare CITATION G with CITATION F). Importantly, closer examination revealed the presence of bi- and multinucleate cells ( CITATION H–6J), demonstrating cytokinesis defects. Also, when DN-Ara7 expression was induced by tamoxifen treatment, endocytosis, as visualized by FM4-64 uptake ( CITATION K), but not exocytosis ( CITATION ), was dramatically reduced. Concomitantly, characteristic cytokinesis defects such as the formation of partial CWs and the reduction of cell plate expansion were induced ( CITATION K). Together, these experiments clearly show that inhibition of endocytosis interferes with cytokinesis and cell plate formation.
!~MM~! Maize roots were obtained as described before ( CITATION ). Tobacco BY-2 cells were cultured as reported previously ( CITATION ). Cowpea plants were grown, and protoplasts were isolated as described before ( CITATION ). In the case of Arabidopsis , 4-day-old seedlings grown in growth chambers at 23°C on vertically oriented plates containing Arabidopsis medium (AM, 1/2 MS agar, 1% sucrose [pH 5.8]) were used. The details of the two-component transactivation system have been described before ( CITATION ). Construction of GFP-MAP4 was described before ( CITATION ). Please see CITATION for cloning details of GFP-Ara7, constrcution of DN-Ara7, and its transfection, transformation, and transactivation. Transgenic Arabidopsis lines carrying the ADL1A-GFP ( CITATION ), BRI1-GFP ( CITATION ), ST-YFP ( CITATION ), and GNOM-myc ( CITATION ) gene fusions have been described before. FM4-64 (Molecular Probes) dissolved in water was applied at a 2 μM final concentration for 5 min to BY-2 cells or Arabidopsis plants, and both were washed with medium to remove excess dye and were observed immediately. Alexa 633 (Molecular Probes; catalog no. A30634) dissolved in water was applied at a 2 μM final concentration, and cells were observed immediately. BFA (Sigma), wortmannin (Sigma), LY294002 (Sigma), and CHX (Sigma) were used from DMSO-dissolved stock solutions and were applied to cells at final concentrations of 50 μM, 10 μM, 10 μM, and 50 μM, respectively, for indicated periods. LY (Sigma) was used at a 1% concentration. For visualizing nuclei in live Arabidopsis cells, the seedlings were incubated with 4′-6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) solution. Sodium Azide (Sigma) was diluted in water (100 μM). Aniline blue dissolved in Gly/NaOH buffer (pH 9.5) was used at a 0.1% concentration (w/v). Incubation of Arabidopsis seedlings with various chemicals was carried out in 24-well cell culture plates in liquid AM medium. In the case of Arabidopsis , these experiments were performed in triplicate with at least 60 roots evaluated in total for each experimental condition, the experiments with BY-2 cells were performed at least four times with hundreds of cells, and those with maize were repeated three times. Whole-mount immunofluorescence preparations for Arabidopsis ( CITATION ) and antibody staining of maize tissue sections ( CITATION ) were done as described before. Please see CITATION for the immunolocalizations in BY-2 cells and antibody concentrations. The cells were then viewed either with a Zeiss Axiovert 405M microscope equipped with a Zeiss AxioCam HR digital camera or with a Leica TCS-SP2 AOBS CLSM by using a 488 nm Ar/Kr laser line exciting FITC, a 561 nm Diode laser line exciting Cy3, and a 405 nm Diode laser line exciting DAPI in a sequential scan mode. FITC emission was captured with a 500–525 nm slit detector setting, Cy3 was captured with a 570–640 nm slit detector setting, and DAPI was captured with a 410–460 nm slit detector setting. Acquired images were processed with Adobe Photoshop 7. All of the experiments were repeated at least three times. Please see CITATION for details of cofractionation analysis. For live cell analysis of BY-2 cells, the Zeiss CLSM510 system implemented on an inverted (Axiovert 100) microscope was used. The microscopy system, sample preparation, single wavelength scanning, image processing, and movie generation were described before ( CITATION ). Dual and triple color imaging was performed by using dual or triple excitation/emission scanning, respectively, in multitracking mode (for further details, please see CITATION ). For live Arabidopsis root tip cells analysis, the Leica TCS-SP2 AOBS CLSM was used (for further details, please see CITATION ). Fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP) analysis is described in CITATION . For quantification of FM4-64 internalization, ∼25 μm 2 circular areas (representing 2000 pixels) were marked at various positions in interphase, and cytokinetic (excluding the cell plates in cytokinetic cells) cells and pixel intensities were acquired. For quantification of FM4-64 internalization, 40 interphase and 40 cytokinetic cells were measured, and the values were gathered and processed in Microsoft Excel. For differential interface contrast (DIC) microscopy, seedlings were placed in 2% glycerol and were observed with a Zeiss axioplan II microscope equipped with DIC optics and a CCD camera. Immunogold EM labeling was performed as described before ( CITATION ), with few modifications (see CITATION ).
