!~ABS~! CpNifS, a cysteine desulfurase required to supply sulfur for ironsulfur cluster biogenesis in Arabidopsis thaliana chloroplasts, belongs to a class of NifS-like enzymes with low endogenous cysteine desulfurase activity. Its bacterial homologue SufS is stimulated by SufE. Here we characterize the Arabidopsis chloroplast protein CpSufE, which has an N-terminal SufE-like domain and a C-terminal BolA-like domain unique to higher plants. CpSufE is targeted to the chloroplast stroma, indicated by green fluorescent protein localization and immunoblot experiments. Like CpNifS, CpSufE is expressed in all major tissues, with higher expression in green parts. Its expression is light-dependent and regulated at the mRNA level. The addition of purified recombinant CpSufE increased the Vmax for the cysteine desulfurase activity of CpNifS over 40-fold and decreased the KM toward cysteine from 0.1 to 0.043 mm. In contrast, CpSufE addition decreased the affinity of CpNifS for selenocysteine, as indicated by an increase in the KM from 2.9 to 4.17 mm, and decreased the Vmax for selenocysteine lyase activity by 30%. CpSufE forms dynamic complexes with CpNifS, indicated by gel filtration, native PAGE, and affinity chromatography experiments. A mutant of CpSufE in which the single cysteine was changed to serine was not active in stimulating CpNifS, although it did compete with WT CpSufE. The iron-sulfur cluster reconstitution activity of the CpNifS-CpSufE complex toward apoferredoxin was 20-fold higher than that of CpNifS alone. We conclude that CpNifS and CpSufE together form a cysteine desulfurase required for iron-sulfur cluster formation in chloroplasts. 
!~RES~! Identification of CpSufE and Sequence Characteristics—CpNifS is a Cys desulfurase (CITATION, CITATION) required for iron sulfur cluster formation in the chloroplast (CITATION). However, compared with most Cys desulfurases with a housekeeping role in Fe-S cluster formation, the Cys desulfurase activity of purified CpNifS is very low, despite a high selenocysteine lyase activity (CITATION). When the in vitro reconstitution activity of purified CpNifS protein was compared with the activity of CpNifS in stromal extracts, it was concluded that CpNifS in stroma is about 50-80 times more active (CITATION). Thus, a stimulatory activity must be present in plastids. We considered that this stimulatory activity could at least in part be explained if plastids contain a homologue of SufE, a protein that stimulates the Cys desulfurase activity of the bacterial SufS proteins. A SufE-like sequence (At4g26500) was identified by a BLAST search within the Arabidopsis genome data base (TAIR; available on the World Wide Web at www.arabidopsis.org), using the E. coli SufE (CITATION) as a query sequence. The genomic sequence of At4g26500 contains a single predicted exon. A cDNA containing the full coding sequence was obtained by reverse transcription-PCR. Sequence analysis of the cDNA confirmed the presence of a single uninterrupted coding sequence in the genome (not shown). The open reading frame is predicted to encode a full-length precursor protein of 371 amino acids (see Fig. 1A), including a putative chloroplast targeting peptide (66 amino acids) as predicted by the TargetP program (available on the World Wide Web at www.expasy.org; see Ref. CITATION). Because of the predicted location and similarity with SufE proteins, we named At4g26500 CpSufE, for chloroplastic SufE. The predicted mature polypeptide is 305 amino acids long, with a molecular mass of 33.6 kDa and an isoelectric point of 4.87. The mature size of the Arabidopsis CpSufE homologue is much larger than what was reported for the bacterial SufE proteins, which are about 15 kDa in size (CITATION, CITATION).  A sequence alignment was performed to determine the similarity of the putative Arabidopsis CpSufE with possible SufE homologues from various organisms, as shown in Fig. 1. The predicted cleavable chloroplast-targeting sequence of the Arabidopsis protein is underlined. A similar N-terminal extension, predicted to be a transit sequence by the TargetP program, is also found in the Rice (Oryza sativa) protein but is not found in the prokaryotic homologues, as expected. All SufE homologues show sequence conservation in the mature protein domain, including a highly conserved single cysteine that was shown to be critical for function in the bacterial proteins (CITATION, CITATION). This SufE domain region corresponds to the N-terminal half of the predicted mature proteins in Arabidopsis and rice. In this region, the plant proteins are most related in sequence to the cyanobacterial SufE. For example, the sequence motif GCVSQV, which includes the conserved Cys, is conserved between Arabidopsis CpSufE, rice, and cyanobacterial SufE but different in the other bacterial proteins. The two plant proteins are predicted to have a C-terminal domain of about 150 amino acids, which is absent from the prokaryotic homologues. The last 88 residues of this plant-specific C-terminal protein domain show very good sequence similarity to E. coli BolA (45% identity and 61% similarity). BolA of E. coli may function in the control of cell shape in response to nutrition (CITATION). BolA-like proteins are found ubiquitously, but so far a molecular function has not been identified for these proteins experimentally (CITATION). However, recent bioinformatic approaches have suggested that BolA domains may interact with members of the monothiol glutaredoxins (CITATION). The rice and Arabidopsis proteins display good sequence conservation over their entire length (42% identity), but the conservation in the BolA-like domain is even higher, with 72% identity; this sequence conservation suggests a significant function for the BolA region of CpSufE in vivo.    [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]] Localization of CpSufE in Chloroplasts—The TargetP program predicted a cleavable transit sequence of 66 amino acids and a chloroplast localization of CpSufE. To examine the subcellular localization, we constructed fusions with GFP. In the first construct, the CpSufE transit peptide was fused to the N terminus of GFP; in a second construct, the full-length precursor CpSufE was fused to the N terminus of GFP. GFP alone expressed from the same constitutive promoter was used as a control. Constructs were separately introduced into Arabidopsis protoplasts, and the localization in cells was analyzed using confocal laser microscopy. Fluorescence corresponding to GFP expressed without a transit sequence was excluded from the chloroplasts as expected (Fig. 2A, top). In contrast, green fluorescence from the transit sequence fusion was localized to the chloroplast stroma, as indicated by the overlay of green fluorescence and red autofluorescence (Fig. 2A, middle). Green fluorescence from the full-length CpSufE coupled to GFP was localized to discrete locations in the chloroplasts (Fig. 2A, bottom).  The localization of CpSufE in chloroplast stroma was verified by immunoblotting (Fig. 2B). CpSufE antibody detected as little as 0.5 ng of purified CpSufE. The antibody detected a protein of 37 kDa in total leaf homogenate (TH), and this signal was quantitatively recovered in the chloroplast stroma fraction (St), (Fig. 2B). The preimmune serum at the same dilution did not recognize any bands in these samples (data not shown). These data indicate the presence of CpSufE in stroma. Based on the band intensities, we estimate that the amount of CpSufE present in 20 μg of stromal protein is between 10 and 20 ng. Thus, the abundance of CpSufE in stroma is between 0.05 and 0.1% of total protein, similar to the abundance (0.06%) reported for CpNifS (CITATION). In conclusion, the immunoblotting and GFP experiments strongly suggest a stromal localization of CpSufE.  Expression Analysis of CpSufE—Expression patterns can give clues about the function of a protein. To determine the CpSufE mRNA and protein expression patterns in different Arabidopsis tissues, we performed RNA blot and immunoblot analyses (Fig. 3) and quantified band intensities. The RNA blot analysis revealed that CpSufE is expressed in all tested tissues with a 1.7-fold higher expression level in leaves compared with nongreen tissues (roots and flowers). The expression of the CpSufE transcript in the stem was 1.4-fold higher than in the roots and flowers (Fig. 3B). Immunoblots confirmed this expression pattern at the protein level and showed that CpSufE and CpNifS have comparable expression patterns. As quantified, the CpSufE protein expression in leaf was 1.3-fold higher than in the stem, flower, and root (Fig. 3A). The presence of CpSufE in plastids and the elevated expression in green tissues are typical for proteins involved in photosynthesis. Many photosynthesis-related genes are regulated by light. We therefore investigated if CpSufE expression is influenced by light. CpSufE protein was found to be expressed less by 2.5-fold in plants grown in the dark, compared with light-grown plants (Fig. 3C), and this can be ascribed to 2.3-fold lower expression of the CpSufE mRNA in the dark (Fig. 3D). However, although there was lower expression of CpSufE in the dark, there was still significant expression, and the effect of light on the expression of the large subunit of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase, a known light-induced chloroplast protein, was larger in comparison.    [[FIGURE]] CpSufE Stimulates Cys Desulfurase Activity and Changes the Substrate Affinity of CpNifS—To allow us to investigate the activity of CpSufE, we purified the mature sized protein. The N terminus of the protein was fused to a His6 tag and a thrombin cleavage site (Fig. 4A) for efficient purification by immobilized metal ion affinity chromatography (Fig. 4B). To remove the His6 tag, the protein was incubated with thrombin at 4 °C until the His6 tag was completely cleaved as judged by SDS-PAGE followed by staining for total protein with Coomassie Brilliant Blue, and CpSufE was purified from the mixture by HPLC using a Resource-Q anion exchange column (Fig. 4B). The purified CpSufE was a colorless protein with a mass of about 40 kDa as judged by SDS-PAGE (Fig. 4B), a slightly slower migration than what is expected based on the theoretical molecular mass of 33.6 kDa. However, CpSufE is rather acidic, and this may well influence the mobility on SDS-PAGE. N-terminal sequence analysis yielded the sequence GSHMASS, which indicated that the protein was correctly cleaved and purified. The cleaved CpSufE was used for all biochemical characterizations unless indicated otherwise. The purified recombinant CpSufE eluted as a dimer from an analytic gel filtration column (Fig. 4C).  CpSufE alone did not show any activity in either the Cys desulfurase assay (Fig. 5C) or the SeCys lyase assay (Fig. 5B), both of which are activities displayed by CpNifS. To test if CpSufE changes the kinetic properties of CpNifS, the activities of CpNifS alone and of CpNifS plus CpSufE in a 1:1 molar ratio were assayed over a concentration range for both substrates (Table 2). CpNifS alone displayed a barely detectable level of Cys desulfurase activity (Vmax = 0.0013 μmol/min/mg) but displayed high SeCys lyase activity (Vmax = 2.44 μmol/min/mg), in agreement with our previous results (CITATION). However, when CpSufE was added to CpNifS in a 1:1 molar ratio, we observed a 40-fold increase in the Vmax for Cys desulfurase activity compared with CpNifS alone. In contrast, the Vmax for SeCys lyase activity was reduced by 30%. The addition of CpSufE to CpNifS caused the Km for cysteine to decrease 2.5-fold. On the other hand, the Km for selenocysteine increased slightly (1.4-fold). Thus, the Vmax/Km ratio of CpNifS was increased 100-fold by CpSufE. Titration experiments at saturating substrate concentration in which the amount of CpNifS was kept constant while CpSufE was varied indicated that the Cys desulfurase activity of CpNifS depended on the amount of CpSufE present. The stimulation by CpSufE reached an apparent saturation point at a CpSufE/CpNifS molar ratio of 5:1, at which point we observed a 60-fold stimulation (Fig. 5A).    [[TABLE]] CpNifS has 5 cysteines, one of which, Cys388, is conserved and predicted to be required for Cys desulfurase activity (CITATION), based on similarity with bacterial CsdB (CITATION) for which a structure is published (CITATION). To investigate if this cysteine in CpNifS is required for the activity of the protein, we purified a mutant, CpNifSC388S, in which the cysteine was altered to serine. Purified CpNifSC388S displayed the same absorbance spectrum and elution profile from a gel filtration column as the WT protein. Similar to what had been found for the CsdB Cys mutant (CITATION), the mutant CpNifSC388S protein retained about 80% of its SeCys lyase activity (Fig. 5B). This indicates that under the assay conditions, the decomposition of selenocysteine does not depend on the active site cysteine and that the mutant CpNifSC388S enzyme was folded and active. However, the CpNifSC388S mutant protein had no detectable Cys desulfurase activity anymore, neither alone nor with CpSufE present. Thus, the conserved cysteine 388 is essential for Cys desulfurase activity of CpNifS but not for SeCys lyase activity.  CpSufE has a single conserved cysteine, Cys65, in its mature sequence. To test the requirement of the thiol group for CpSufE activity, we expressed and purified a mutant in which the cysteine was changed to serine. Like the wild-type CpSufE, the mutant CpSufEC65S did not show activity by itself (Fig. 5, B and C). Only WT CpSufE and not CpSufEC65S displayed stimulation of CpNifS Cys desulfurase activity, indicating that the conserved cysteine 65 is essential for this function (Fig. 5C). Both CpSufE and CpSufEC65S had a similar small but noticeable negative effect on the SeCys lyase activity of CpNifS.    [[FIGURE]] The C65S Mutation in CpSufE Is Dominant Negative in Vitro—We tested the effect of the presence of the CpSufE and CpNifS Cys mutants on the activity of WT CpNifS and WT CpSufE. Interestingly, the presence of CpSufEC65S severely inhibited the stimulatory activation of CpNifS by WT CpSufE in a concentration-dependent manner, thus showing a dominant negative effect in vitro. In marked contrast, even a 5-fold excess of mutant CpNifSC388S did not inhibit the activation of WT CpNifS by CpSufE (Fig. 6). A straightforward interpretation of these observations is that in these incubations, the mutant CpSufEC65S titrates WT CpNifS into an inactive complex, whereas mutant CpNifSC388S does not titrate away WT CpSufE from WT CpNifS. The difference may be explained by differences in affinity between mutant and WT proteins that in turn may be related to the ability to decompose cysteine or accept S.  CpSufE Complexes with CpNifS—The observed alterations of the catalytic properties of CpNifS by CpSufE prompted us to investigate if CpSufE and CpNifS form a complex. To address this question, we first performed a gel filtration analysis (Fig. 7). The native molecular weight of recombinant CpSufE and of the CpSufEC65S mutant was determined by comparing the elution time from a Superdex 200 gel filtration column with standards. In gel filtration experiments, CpSufE eluted in single peak at 18.5 min (Fig. 7A, trace 1). The same elution profile was seen for CpSufEC65S (not shown). The retention time of 18.5 min corresponds to an estimated molecular mass of ∼70 kDa, indicating that purified recombinant CpSufE and the CpSufEC65S mutant are homodimeric proteins. CpNifS eluted as a single peak at 17.6 min (Fig. 7A, trace 2), which corresponds to a size of 86 kDa, in agreement with the mass expected for homodimeric CpNifS (CITATION). When WT CpSufE and CpNifS (WT) were mixed in a 1:1 molar ratio and applied to the gel filtration column, we found most of the protein to elute in a peak with a retention time of 17.2 min (Fig. 7A, trace 3). Comparison with standards indicated an apparent molecular mass of ∼110 kDa, indicating the formation of a complex that is significantly smaller than the added mass of two dimers together. The published structure for the homologous E. coli SufS protein suggests a very stable dimer structure for CpNifS (CITATION). Indeed, the CpNifS dimer is very stable, and we have never observed monomers of this protein. We thus consider it likely that trace 3 in Fig. 7A represents a heterotrimer of two CpNifS subunits and one CpSufE subunit, which is in agreement with the estimated size of the complex. Indeed both CpSufE and CpNifS were found to be present in the peak as judged from SDS-PAGE, but CpSufE seemed less abundant in the peak fractions (Fig. 7B, gel 3), and the addition of more CpSufE shifted the complex to a higher molecular weight (not shown). When the mutated CpSufEC65S was incubated with CpNifS and loaded onto the gel filtration column, a peak with a retention time of 16.5 min was observed (Fig. 7A, trace 4), corresponding with a complex with an apparent size of ∼150 kDa, which is in good agreement with the cumulative molecular mass of a CpSufE dimer and a CpNifS dimer, a composition that is confirmed by SDS-PAGE analysis. These data indicate that the mutant CpSufE retains CpNifS-binding ability and may have a higher affinity for CpNifS than the WT CpSufE. When the cysteine mutant of CpNifS was substituted for the WT protein and incubated with CpSufE, the same elution pattern was obtained that was observed with WT CpNifS (data not shown). Therefore, the affinity of WT and mutant CpNifS for CpSufE appears to be similar.    [[FIGURE]] As mentioned above, the WT CpSufE and CpNifS proteins appear to form a NifS2-SufE trimer when incubated at lower concentrations, but this complex appears to shift to a heterotetramer when the CpSufE concentration is increased. A similar tetrameric complex was observed when the concentrations of both proteins were increased 10-fold (Fig. 7C). The formation of the putative trimeric and tetrameric complexes and the effect of cysteine on complex formation were further investigated by native PAGE (Fig. 7D). CpNifS and CpSufE are both negatively charged and have a very similar charge/mass ratio. Therefore, we can expect that the mobility in native PAGE will be mainly determined by the size of the native protein complex. When individual proteins were loaded onto the native gel, CpNifS migrated as a single band, presumably its dimeric form; WT CpSufE also migrated as a single band, presumably as a dimer. The mutant CpSufEC65S also mostly migrated as this presumed dimeric form, but a small fraction migrated in a band with higher mobility, presumably the monomeric form. When the WT CpSufE and WT CpNifS were incubated in the absence of their substrate cysteine, the dimeric CpNifS disappeared, as did most of the dimeric CpSufE, and instead a smear appeared, representing a larger complex of CpNifS and CpSufE, possibly a heterotetramer that is perhaps somewhat unstable under the experimental conditions (Fig. 7D). In the presence of cysteine, the same protein mixture formed two more distinct complexes (Fig. 7D, band II). We hypothesize that these two newly appearing bands, labeled I and II, are a trimeric NifS2-SufE complex and a NifS2-SufE2 heterotetramer, respectively. The desulfuration triggered by addition of the cysteine substrate appears to stimulate the formation of the putative tetramer, which may be the most active catalytic form of the CpNifS-CpSufE cysteine desulfurase complex. The latter is supported by the finding that an increase in the CpSufE/CpNifS ratio shifts the complex to a higher molecular weight (judged from gel filtration experiments) and at the same time increases Cys desulfurase activity of the complex (Fig. 5A).  When the WT CpSufE protein was incubated with the mutant CpNifSC388S in the absence of cysteine, the results were comparable with incubation of both WT proteins. There was no effect, however, of the addition of cysteine, probably because no desulfuration could be carried out by the mutant CpNifSC388S. When the mutant CpSufEC65S was incubated with WT CpNifS, only the putative heterotetramer (band II) was observed, regardless of the presence of cysteine, and neither dimeric CpNifS nor dimeric CpSufE was observed (Fig. 7D). A straightforward interpretation is that the mutant CpSufEC65S has a stronger affinity for CpNifS or that the CpSufEC65S-CpNifS complex is more stable. Finally, incubation of mutant CpNifSC388S with mutant CpSufEC65S resulted in only the putative trimeric complex (band I), regardless of the presence of cysteine. These results are similar to those observed when the mutant CpNifSC388S was incubated with WT CpSufE and may indicate that mutant CpNifSC388S has a reduced binding ability to CpSufE. These native PAGE results confirm the presence of different CpSufE-CpNifS complexes and also explain the dominant negative effect of CpSufEC65S when added to WT. The NifS and SufE proteins form complexes even when the active site Cys residues in both proteins are changed to serine. Still, the active site residues in CpNifS and CpSufE clearly affect the nature of the complexes that are formed. Furthermore, the effect of Cys on complex formation between the WT proteins suggests that conformational changes occur in CpNifS upon the completion of a round of desulfuration, which in turn may facilitate a release of CpSufE from the complex. It thus appears that CpSufE is in dynamic exchange between a “free” CpSufE and several complexed states.  Investigating the Formation of the CpSufE-CpNifS Complex—The formation of a CpSufE-CpNifS complex was further investigated in nickel column coelution experiments. We used the His6-tagged CpSufE and incubated the protein with an equal amount of CpNifS before loading onto a Ni-IDA column. The column was treated with a series of salt washes before elution with 1 m imidazole. Samples of the loaded and imidazole-eluted proteins were analyzed by SDS-PAGE (Fig. 8A). Wild-type CpNifS was found to co-elute with the His-tagged wild-type CpSufE. Control experiments showed that CpNifS did not bind to the nickel column by itself (data not shown). The same elution pattern was found for CpNifS and His-tagged CpSufE regardless of whether the proteins had the wild-type sequences or were mutated at the essential cysteine residues. Therefore, in this nickel column binding assay, CpNifS and CpSufE are again shown to interact, and this interaction does not require the conserved Cys residues in either protein, which are however needed for Cys desulfurase activity. Another chloroplast protein, CpIscA, which may serve as a chloroplast scaffold protein for Fe-S assembly (CITATION), did not co-elute with CpSufE or with CpSufE and CpNifS (data not shown).  The observation of the putative trimeric NifS2-SufE complex in addition to the putative NifS2-SufE2 heterotetramer suggests the involvement of the CpSufE monomer in the formation of the complex. This hypothesis was further investigated by nickel column coelution experiments. We mixed dimeric His-tagged CpSufE with separately purified dimeric untagged (cleaved) CpSufE and CpNifS, either with or without cysteine. The protein mixture was loaded onto a Ni-IDA column and eluted with 1 m imidazole to select for His-tagged CpSufE and any proteins associated with it. The cleaved untagged CpSufE, which does not bind to the column by itself, and CpNifS were found to co-elute with His-tagged CpSufE (Fig. 8B, imidazole eluates I). This presence of untagged CpSufE in a complex with tagged CpSufE can be explained by the formation of a heterotetramer containing a cleaved CpSufE, a Histagged CpSufE, and two CpNifS subunits (Fig. 8C). Cysteine had no notable effect in this experimental protocol. When the mutant CpSufEC65S was mixed with the His-tagged CpSufE and CpNifS, the cleaved CpSufEC65S also coeluted with the other two components in the 1 m imidazole fraction (Fig. 8B, imidazole eluates II). However, much less complex coeluted with the His-tagged WT CpSufE when it had to compete with the CpSufEC65S mutant, again indicating that the mutant CpSufEC65S has a higher affinity for CpNifS than WT CpSufE and explaining the dominant negative effect of the mutant CpSufEC65S on stimulation of CpNifS Cys desulfurase activity by WT CpSufE. The formation of the CpSufE-CpSufEtag-CpNifS complex suggests that CpSufE is incorporated into the CpSufE-CpNifS complex in the form of monomers, as schematically depicted in Fig. 8D.    [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]] CpSufE Enhances the Fe-S Reconstitution in Ferredoxin 20-Fold—To quantitatively measure Fe-S cluster formation, a Fe-S reconstitution assay for ferredoxin was used (CITATION). The effect of CpSufE on the Fe-S cluster formation in ferredoxin was tested in these CpNifS-dependent reconstitution assays (Fig. 9). CpSufE by itself did not mediate any Fe-S cluster formation, whereas CpNifS only displayed a very low level of activity. However, the mixture of 5 μg of (or 0.8 μm) CpNifS and 4 μg of (or 0.8 μm) CpSufE reconstituted ∼21 μg of (or 12 μm) ferredoxin, equivalent to the activity of 100 μg of (or 16 μm) pure CpNifS. This indicated a 20-fold enhancement of CpNifS-dependent Fe-S cluster formation by CpSufE. 
!~MM~! Cloning and Plasmid Construction—The A. thaliana CpSufE coding sequence was amplified by PCR using cDNA as a template. cDNA was prepared from DNase-treated total RNA prepared from 2-week old seedlings as described (CITATION). Primers used for CpSufE amplification were SufE-precursor and SufE-Bam (Table 1). The PCR product was digested with NcoI and BamHI and then ligated into vector pET11d (Novagen, Madison, WI), digested with the same restriction enzymes to produce plasmid pPrSufE. To subclone the mature sequence of CpSufE in pET28a (Novagen, Madison, WI) for expression as a His6-tagged protein, PCR was performed with a set of nested primers, SufE-mature and SufE-Bam (Table 1). Plasmid pPrSufE was used as a template. The PCR product was digested with NdeI and BamHI and subcloned in vector pET28a, which was digested with the same enzymes to produce plasmid pMSufE.    [[TABLE]] To change the single cysteine in the mature sequence of CpSufE to serine, recombinant PCR was performed. In the first round, two fragments were amplified with primer set T7 and SufEC65S-R and primer set T7 terminator and SufEC65S-F, respectively (Table 1). pMSufE was used as a template. The two products from the first round of PCR were together used as a template for the second round of PCR, with primers SufE-mature and SufE-Bam (Table 1). The resulting PCR product was digested with NdeI and BamHI and subcloned in vector pET28a to produce plasmid pMSufEC65S.  For green fluorescent protein (GFP) localization, the transit peptide coding sequence of CpSufE was amplified with flanking primers SufE-GFP-F and SufE-GFP-RT (Table 1), whereas the full-length protein sequence was amplified with flanking primers SufE-GFP-F and SufE-GFP-R (Table 1). The pPrSufE plasmid was used as a template. PCR products were digested with SalI and NcoI and inserted into the SalI/NcoI-digested GFP reporter plasmid 35Ω-SGFP(S65T) (CITATION) to create the plasmids TP/SufE-GFP and full-length/SufE-GFP, respectively.  For site-directed mutagenesis of cysteine 388 in mature CpNifS to serine, a strategy was used similar to the one described above for the CpSufE mutant. In the first round of PCR, two fragments were amplified with primers T7 and NifSC388S-R and primers T7 terminator and NifSC388S-F, respectively (Table 1), using pMNFS-8 (CITATION) as a template. In the second round of PCR, the two fragments were fused together and amplified with primers NFS-mat and NFS-B2 (Table 1). The final PCR product was digested with NcoI and BamHI and ligated into vector pET11d, resulting in pMNFSC388S. All constructs were verified by DNA sequencing. The plasmids used for protoplast transformation were prepared using the Plasmid Midi Kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA).  Sequence Analysis and Alignments—Sequence analysis was performed using the Mac Vector sequence analysis software (International Biotechnologies, New Haven, CT). Searches for sequence similarity were performed using the BLAST network service provided by the National Center for Biotechnology Information (available on the World Wide Web at www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov). Sequence alignment was performed using ClustalW at European Bioinformatics Institute, ExPASY Proteomics tools (available on the World Wide Web at www.ebi.ac.uk/clustalw).  Preparation of Proteins—For overexpression of CpSufE, E. coli BL21 (DE3) codon+ (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA) was transformed with plasmid pMSufE or with pMSufEC65S for the mutant protein. Two liters of LB medium containing 50 μg ml-1 kanamycin was inoculated with one-one hundredth volume of overnight culture. Cells were grown at 37 °C to an A600 of 0.5, and expression was induced by the addition of 0.4 mm isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside followed by incubation for 3 h at 37 °C. The culture was chilled on ice, and the cells were collected by centrifugation for 5 min at 5,000 × g at 4 °C. From here on, all procedures were performed at 4 °C except where mentioned. The bacterial pellet was washed with 150 mm NaCl and resuspended in 50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, and then passed twice through a French press (8,000 p.s.i.) to disrupt the cells. The lysate was centrifuged for 20 min at 12,500 × g, and the cleared supernatant was loaded at a flow rate of 3 ml min-1 onto His-Bind iminodiacetic acid (IDA)-agarose (Novagen, Madison, WI) in a 1.6 × 20-cm column, which was saturated with NiSO4, washed, and equilibrated in 50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5. The column was washed with 4 volumes of 50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, followed by 4 volumes of 1 m NaCl, 50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 6 volumes of 50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, again, and 2 volumes of 0.1 m imidazole in 50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, respectively. His6-tagged CpSufE was eluted with 4 volumes of 1 m imidazole in 50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5. Fractions of 6 ml were collected. Peak fractions were pooled and dialyzed overnight against 25 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5. Pure His-tagged CpSufE ran as a single band on SDS-PAGE after staining with Coomassie Brilliant Blue.  To produce cleaved CpSufE, the pooled peak fractions were dialyzed overnight against 20 mm Tris-HCl, pH 8.4, followed by incubation with thrombin in a 1:1,000 (w/w) ratio (thrombin/target protein) at 4 °C for 8 h in 20 mm Tris-HCl, pH 8.4, 150 mm NaCl, 2.5 mm CaCl2, as suggested by the manufacturer (Novagen, Madison, WI). The cleavage mixture was subsequently applied to a 10 × 1-cm Resource-Q column (Amersham Biosciences), equilibrated in 25 mm Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, at room temperature and connected to a Summit HPLC system (Dionex, Sunnyvale, CA). The column was eluted with a linear gradient from 0 to 1 m NaCl in 25 mm Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, and fractions of 2 ml were collected. Elution was monitored by detection of the OD at 280 and 220 nm. The purified cleaved CpSufE was dialyzed overnight against 25 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, and stored frozen at -80 °C before use in activity assays. Typical yields were 5-10 mg/liter of culture. The purified protein migrated as a single band on SDS-PAGE (12.5% gel) and ran as a single peak in analytical HPLC runs on a 1-ml Resource Q column (Amersham Biosciences).  The His6-tagged and cleaved CpSufEC65S were purified essentially as the WT CpSufE protein. WT CpNifS protein was prepared as described before (CITATION). For overexpression of CpNifSC388S, E. coli BL21 (DE3) codon+ (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA) was transformed with plasmid pMNFSC388S. The recombinant CpNifSC388S was prepared essentially as WT CpNifS (CITATION). Purified CpNifSC388S was eluted from a calibrated 1 × 30-cm Superdex-S200 gel filtration column (Amersham Biosciences) at the same retention time as the WT protein, and a native molecular mass of 83 kDa was calculated, suggesting that CpNifSC388S is a dimer like the wild type protein. Holo- and apoferredoxin were prepared as described (CITATION).  Enzyme Assays—Cys desulfurase activity was assayed at 25 °C essentially as described (CITATION). Briefly, 160 μl of reaction mixture contained 25 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.4, 100 mm NaCl, 2.5 μm enzyme (0.11 mg/ml CpNifS, 0.09 mg/ml CpSufE), 10 μm pyridoxal 5′-phosphate (Acros Organics, Morris Plains, NJ), 1 mm dithiothreitol (Roche Applied Science), and 500 μm cysteine (Sigma). The reaction was stopped by the addition of 20 μl of 20 mm N,N-dimethyl-p-phenylenediamine in 7.2 m HCl. Methylene blue was formed by the addition of 20 μl of 30 mm FeCl3 in 1.2 m HCl and was assayed by measuring the absorbance at 670 nm. The SeCys lyase activity was measured as described (CITATION). One unit of enzyme activity corresponds to 1 μmol of substrate converted/min. To estimate kinetic constants for both the Cys desulfurase and SeCys lyase activities of CpNifS, the reaction velocities were measured over a wide range of substrate concentrations (0.01-20 mm). The data in Michaelis-Menten plots were fitted by an iterative method to estimate Km and Vmax values, using the software program Enzfitter (Biosoft, Cambridge, UK). The Fe-S reconstitution assay was performed as described before (CITATION). For all statistical analyses, the JMP-IN software (SAS institute, Cary, NC) was used.  Gel Filtration—Sizes of protein complexes were estimated by gel filtration experiments, as described before (CITATION). The column used was a 1 × 30-cm Superdex-200 column (Amersham Biosciences), which was connected to a summit HPLC system with a UVD170 detector and controlled by Chromeleon software (Dionex, Sunnyvale, CA). The loop size was 0.2 ml. The column was equilibrated in 25 mm Tricine/KOH, pH 7.9, 50 mm KCl. The flow rate was 0.75 ml/min, and fractions were collected every 0.5 min. Elution was monitored by absorbance at both 280 and 220 nm and by immunoblotting of collected fractions. The void volume was determined with blue dextran. Standards used for calibration were IgY, bovine serum albumin, ovalbumin, chymotrypsinogen, and RNase.  Protein Coelution Experiment—100 μg of His-tagged CpSufE (WT or mutant) and possible partner proteins were mixed at room temperature in 500 μl of buffer (50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5) and loaded on a 0.5-ml His-Bind IDA-agarose column (Novagen, Madison, WI). The column was washed with 2 ml of buffer and subsequently with 2 ml of 1 m NaCl, 50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, followed by 2 ml of 50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, again, and 1 ml of 50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 0.1 m imidazole. Finally, the column was eluted with 2 ml of 1 m imidazole, 50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, and 1-ml fractions were collected. Samples incubated with cysteine were eluted with all solutions containing 1 mm cysteine, whereas samples incubated without cysteine were eluted with solutions free of cysteine. Proteins eluted with 1 m imidazole were analyzed by SDS-PAGE and staining with Coomassie Brilliant Blue.  Separation of CpNifS-CpSufE Complexes on Native Gel—5 μg of CpSufE (WT or mutant) was mixed with 5 μg of CpNifS (WT or mutant) in a final volume of 15 μl, with or without 1 mm cysteine. After incubation at room temperature for 10 min, proteins were mixed with an equal volume of 20% (w/v) glycerol, 250 mm Tris-HCl, pH 6.8, and separated by native PAGE, using a 4% stacking gel, a 10% separating gel, and the Laemmli buffer system with the omission of SDS. 5 μg of each single protein was loaded as control. The gel was stained with Coomassie Brilliant Blue.  Plant Sampling—A. thaliana (Ecotype Columbia-0) plants were grown on soil with supplementary light on a 15-h light/9-h dark cycle for 4 weeks. Total leaf homogenate, chloroplast stroma, and RNA from different tissues were prepared as described (CITATION). For light regulation analysis of CpSufE, Arabidopsis plants were grown on half-strength Murashige and Skoog agar medium (CITATION) for 2 weeks, either on a 15-h light/9-h dark cycle or in complete darkness. Protein and RNA preparations from total leaf homogenate were described before (CITATION).  Subcellular Localization of GFP Fusion Proteins—The plasmids TP/SufE-GFP or full-length/SufE-GFP were transformed into Arabidopsis protoplasts, and expressed proteins were observed under a confocal microscope, as described (CITATION).  Antibodies and Immunoblotting—Cleaved CpSufE in 100 mm NaCl, 25 mm sodium phosphate, pH 7.5, was used to raise polyclonal antibody in rabbits at a commercial facility (PRF&L, Canadensis, PA). The CpNifS antibodies have been described (CITATION). The Hsp70 antibody was purchased from Sigma. RuBisCo antibody was purchased from AgriSera (Vannas, Sweden). Immunoblotting was performed as described (CITATION). Band intensities were quantified with ImageJ software (National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD).  RNA Blot Analysis—Total RNA from different Arabidopsis tissues was prepared, electrophoresed, and probed with a 32P-labeled 900-bp CpSufE cDNA, essentially as described before (CITATION). Band intensities were quantified with ImageJ software (National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD). 
