!~ABS~! The folding of glycoproteins in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) depends on a quality control mechanism mediated by the calnexin/calreticulin cycle. During this process, continuous glucose trimming and UDP-glucose-dependent re-glucosylation of unfolded glycoproteins takes place. To ensure proper folding, increases in misfolded proteins lead to up-regulation of the components involved in quality control through a process known as the unfolded protein response (UPR). Reglucosylation is catalyzed by the ER lumenal located enzyme UDP-glucose glycoprotein glucosyltransferase, but as UDP-glucose is synthesized in the cytosol, a UDP-glucose transporter is required in the calnexin/calreticulin cycle. Even though such a transporter has been hypothesized, no protein playing this role in the ER yet has been identified. Here we provide evidence that AtUTr1, a UDP-galactose/glucose transporter from Arabidopsis thaliana, responds to stimuli that trigger the UPR increasing its expression around 9-fold. The accumulation of AtUTr1 transcript is accompanied by an increase in the level of the AtUTr1 protein. Moreover, subcellular localization studies indicate that AtUTr1 is localized in the ER of plant cells. We reasoned that an impairment in AtUTr1 expression should perturb the calnexin/calreticulin cycle leading to an increase in misfolded protein and triggering the UPR. Toward that end, we analyzed an AtUTr1 insertional mutant and found an up-regulation of the ER chaperones BiP and calnexin, suggesting that these plants may be constitutively activating the UPR. Thus, we propose that in A. thaliana, AtUTr1 is the UDP-glucose transporter involved in quality control in the ER. 
!~RES~! AtUTr1 Responds to the UPR—We analyzed the expression of the AtUTr1 gene in 6-day-old plants treated with DTT, a treatment that is known to trigger the UPR given its interference in the formation of disulfide bonds (CITATION). Northern blot analysis showed that plants treated with DTT increased the expression of AtUTr1 as well as the expression of the chaperones BiP and calnexin, two genes up-regulated under this treatment (CITATION, CITATION) (Fig. 1A). The expression of actin showed no change, confirming that the treatment was specific. To obtain more accurate and quantitative information of the changes in AtUTr1 transcript levels caused by DTT, we performed real-time PCR analysis. The results of this experiment showed a 9-fold increase in the AtUTr1 transcript amount in plants exposed to DTT (Fig. 1B), confirming the result obtained by Northern analysis.  To study whether the changes in transcript levels correlated with an increase in the accumulation of the protein, we performed Western blot analysis using an AtUTr1 peptide affinity-purified antibody. The results showed that seedlings treated with DTT had an increase in the amount of the AtUTr1 protein whereas actin levels did not change under these conditions (Fig. 1C). All these results strongly suggest that AtUTr1 is an UPR up-regulated gene.  Expression of AtUTr1 Is Related to Genes Involved in Protein Folding—In plants grown under different conditions, the analysis of genes that show the same profile of expression as the AtUTr1 gene may provide information regarding the cellular processes in which they are involved. Using the data base module of CSB.DB (CITATION) and genome chip expression profiles obtained from different plant growth condition (CITATION), a co-expression analysis was carried out. The results indicate that expression of AtUTr1 strongly correlates with the expression of BiP, calnexin, and other chaperones or proteins related to stress (data not shown). In addition, the largest set of genes co-expressing with AtUTr1, BiP, and calnexin at the same time correspond to proteins related to stress and redox regulation (Fig. 2). As a control, the expression of AtUTr2, a Golgi-localized UDP-galactose transporter (CITATION), was analyzed. However, its expression pattern did not show any correlation with the expression of genes encoding for proteins involved in protein folding (data not shown).  AtUTr1 Is Localized at the Endoplasmic Reticulum—Since AtUTr1 transports UDP-glucose (CITATION) and responds to the UPR, we hypothesized that this protein could be in the ER. To investigate its subcellular location, we constructed a chimera by fusing the green fluorescent protein to the C terminus of AtUTr1. This chimeric protein was capable of incorporating UDP-galactose into microsomes from tobacco leaves infiltrated with AtUTr1-GFP, indicating that the fusion protein was functional. Since most of the nucleotide sugar transporters identified to date are localized in the Golgi apparatus, the distribution of AtUTr1-GFP expressed in epidermal cells of tobacco leaves was compared with the pattern of both ER and Golgi markers. The distribution of soluble GFP was also analyzed (Fig. 3A). The results showed that AtUTr1-GFP has a reticulated distribution (Fig. 3D), resembling that obtained for GFP-HDEL, an ER located protein (Fig. 3B). In contrast, GONST1-YFP, a Golgi-localized GDP-mannose transporter (CITATION), showed a punctate pattern (Fig. 3C). The fluorescent dots were motile and sensitive to brefeldin A (data not shown). These results suggest that AtUTr1 is located at the ER and not at the Golgi apparatus.    [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]] To confirm the localization of AtUTr1, we performed subcellular fractionation of Arabidopsis plants and analyzed the location of AtUTr1 using an affinity-purified peptide antibody raised against the C terminus of AtUTr1. Upon homogenization of the tissue, the organelles were separated on a discontinuous sucrose gradient, and fractions enriched both in ER and Golgi membranes were obtained. The signal detected by the antibody against AtUTr1 (Fig. 4A) showed the same distribution as the ER marker (Fig. 4C), distinct from the distribution of the two Golgi markers (Fig. 4B). These results, along with those obtained using the AtUTr1-GFP fusion protein, strongly suggest that AtUTr1 is indeed located at the ER.  An AtUTr1 Insertional Mutant (atutr1) Shows Up-regulation of UPR-related Genes—If AtUTr1 provides the UDP-glucose required for the re-glucosylation of misfolded glycoproteins, the absence of AtUTr1 should produce an alteration in the normal folding process in the ER. Thus, an increase in misfolded proteins may occur, triggering the UPR. To investigate this hypothesis we searched for mutants in AtUTr1. A gene trap line containing an insertion of the Ds element in the AtUTr1 gene was characterized (Fig. 5A) (CITATION, CITATION). The analysis of this line using PCR indicated that the Ds insertion was in the first exon of the AtUTr1 gene. Southern analysis showed changes in the pattern of atutr1 genomic DNA digested with EcoRI, consistent with the insertion of the Ds element in this region (data shown as supplemental Fig. 1). In addition, PCR analysis and the observation that 100% of the plants obtained upon self-pollination were resistant to kanamycin, the selection marker, indicated that the AtUTr1 insertion line was homozygous (data not shown). The analysis of the number of insertions by Southern blot analysis, detecting the GUS gene present in the Ds element, revealed a single band indicating that a single insertion was present in atutr1 (data shown as supplemental Fig. 1). Furthermore, the F2 population obtained from the backcross showed that 72% of the plants were able to grow in kanamycin, whereas 28% of the plants were sensitive to the antibiotic. This segregation ratio, together with the molecular analysis indicated the presence of a single Ds insertion in the genome of atutr1. Northern blot analysis showed that AtUTr1 was not expressed in the atutr1 mutant (Fig. 5B). Finally, UDP-glucose uptake assays were performed in ER-derived vesicles obtained from wild type and atutr1 plants (Fig. 5C). The result showed that ER-derived vesicles obtained from atutr1 plants had a decreased uptake of UDP-glucose compared with the wild type.    [[FIGURE]] To test the hypothesis that the UPR could be activated in the atutr1 mutant, we analyzed the expression of BiP. Northern analysis showed that the BiP transcript was much more abundant in the atutr1 mutant whereas the level of the actin transcript or the UDP-galactose transporter AtUTr2 transcript was similar in wild-type and mutant plants (Fig. 6A). To quantify the magnitude of the changes in gene expression of chaperones involved in quality control, we carried out real-time PCR experiments. The results showed that BiP was 2.8-fold and calnexin 1.9-fold more abundant in the atutr1 mutant compared with the wild type plants (Fig. 6B). In contrast, the level of the AtUTr2 transcript was the same in both the mutant and the wild type. Thus, BiP and calnexin are overexpressed in the mutant, suggesting that atutr1 plants have the UPR constitutively activated.    [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Plant Growth Condition—Sterile seeds of wild type and atutr1 mutant (ecotype Landsberg-erecta) were germinated in a 16 h light/8 h dark cycle at 23 °C in Murashige and Skoog medium (MS) containing 1% sucrose (w/v). For the UPR studies, plants were grown as described by Martínez and Chrispeels (CITATION). Seeds were germinated in 13 ml of liquid MS medium and cultured with gentle shaking for 6 days. The seedlings were treated for 5 h with or without 10 mm of dithiothreitol (DTT). For subcellular fractionation and RNA expression analysis, plants were grown in soil. Agrobacterium-mediated infiltration was performed in Nicotiana tabacum (Xanthi NN) leaves.  Cloning of AtUTr1-GFP—AtUTr1 cDNA was amplified by PCR from the A. thaliana cDNA library pFL61 (American Type Culture Collection) using platinum Pfx polymerase (Invitrogen) and primers flanking the coding region, designed from the genomic sequence. The sequence of the forward primer was 5′-TCTAGGATCCTAATGGAGGTCCATGGCTCC-3′ containing a BamHI restriction site (underlined sequence). The reverse primer was 5′-AGGGAAGATCTCTCCACTCTTTTGCTTCTTCTT-3′ containing a BglII restriction site (underlined sequence) deleting the original stop codon. A unique amplification product of the expected size (1 kb) was obtained. The PCR product was sequenced and digested with BamHI and BglII. The DNA fragment was cloned in the plant expression vector pCD3–326 to generate pCD3–326 AtUTr1-GFP. The AtUTr1-GFP fusion was excised using BamHI and SacI and cloned in the binary vector pBEL-103.  Tobacco Leaf Infiltration and Visualization—Tobacco leaves were infiltrated with AtUTr1-GFP, GONST1-YFP (CITATION), HDEL-GFP (CITATION), and soluble GFP, as described by Kato et al. (CITATION). Transformed leaves were examined 2 days after infiltration by epifluorescence microscopy (Olympus IX70) and confocal microscopy (Zeiss LSM 510 Meta).  Isolation and Characterization of A. thaliana Membranes—Caulinar leaves obtained from 4-week-old plants were homogenized and subjected to subcellular fractionation as described by Muñoz et al. (CITATION). Membrane fractions were taken from the 1.1/0.25 and 1.3/1.1 m sucrose interfaces and used to measure Golgi and ER markers respectively. Reversibly glycosylated protein (RGP) (CITATION) and xyloglucan fucosyltransferase (CITATION) were used as Golgi markers and NADH cytochrome c reductase insensitive to antimycin A as ER marker (CITATION). Protein concentration was determined using the BCA method according to the manufacturer′s instructions (Pierce). The distribution of RGP and xyloglucan fucosyltransferase was determined by Western blot using 30 μg of protein separated by SDS-PAGE and transfered onto polyvinylidene difluoride membrane. The immunoblot was performed using a polyclonal antisera raised against RGP or xyloglucan fucosyltransferase (kindly donated by K. Dhugga and W. D. Reiter, respectively) following standard procedures (CITATION). The endoplasmic reticulum marker, NADH cytocrome c reductase, insensitive to antimicyn A was measured as described by Briskin et al. (CITATION).  Immunodetection of AtUTr1—A synthetic peptide (YQIYLKWKKLQRVEKKKQKS) from the C-terminal sequence of AtUTr1 was synthesized by Bio-Synthesis Inc., coupled to Blue Carrier, and used to immunize rabbits. The antiserum obtained was purified using the synthetic peptide coupled to a cyanogen bromide-Sepharose-activated matrix (Sigma), according to the manufacturer's instructions. The affinity-purified antibody was characterized by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and was able to detect in the Western blot a single band of the expected size. For Western blot analysis, 30 μg of proteins from subcellular fractions, or from plants treated with DTT, were denatured in Laemmli buffer at 60 °C for 20 min, separated by SDS-PAGE, and transferred onto polyvinylidene difluoride membrane. Actin was used as a control for protein loading in Western blot analysis.  Isolation of RNA and Northern Blot Analysis—Total RNA from plantlets and flowers was extracted using TRIzol (Invitrogen). Total RNA (20 μg) was fractionated by electrophoresis in an agarose gel containing formaldehyde and capillary transferred to nylon membranes (Hybond N+; Amersham Biosciences) using 10× SSC. Hybridization and all the other procedures were done as described by Orellana et al. (CITATION). A specific 32P-radiolabeled probe against AtUTr1 was prepared from the 3′-untranslated region by PCR. An AtUTr1 EST (APD06f05) kindly donated by E. Asamizu was used as template. The forward primer was 5′-CAAAAGAGCTCAAGTTTTTCCCTC-3′, and the reverse primer was 5′-TTTGGGTACCCCAAAATTCAAATC-3′. The DNA probes for BiP, calnexin, and AtUTr2 were generated by random priming of PCR fragments using an oligolabeling kit (Fermentas). The amplicons for BiP, calnexin, and AtUTr2 were produced using the following primers: BiP, 5′-ATGGCTCGCTCGTTTGGAGC-3′ (forward) and 5′-AAGTTTCCTGTCCTTTTGAA-3-′ (reverse), calnexin, 5′-ATGAGACAACGGCAACTATT-3′ (forward) and 5′-TTCCTGAGGACGGAGGTACT-3′ (reverse); AtUTr2, 5′-CACATTTATCGGTCAAGTCTCCGTT-3′ (forward) and 5′-TCGCAGGAGGCGATGGTGATAGAGAAGA-3′ (reverse).  Real-time PCR—mRNA content for AtUTr1, calnexin, BiP, and AtUTr2 was quantified using the LightCycler system (Roche Diagnostic). Real-time PCR reactions were run in 20 μl final volume and contained 50 ng of cDNA, 1× Master CYBR Green mix, 1.5 mm MgCl2, and a 0.5 μm concentration of each primer. The primers used were the same described above. cDNA was obtained by reverse transcription of 1 μg of total RNA isolated from plants treated with or without 10 mm DTT. The absolute standard curves for each gene were generated by diluting the plasmid carrying the gene of interest from 10,000 to 0.01 pg. The threshold cycle number (CT) from each sample was referred to the absolute standard curve to estimate the content of the corresponding cDNA. The amount for each cDNA was normalized against the amount of the actin cDNA estimated on each sample. Experiments were performed in triplicate.  AtUTr1 Mutant Identification and Characterization—A gene trap line containing a transposon insertion (Ds element) in the first exon of the AtUTr1 gene was identified from the Sundaresan collection (CITATION, CITATION). The seeds were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Center. The Ds insertion was confirmed by PCR using primers for the AtUTr1 gene (5′-ATGCAAGATGCTCGAACC-3′) and the left border of the Ds element (5′-ACGGTCGGGAAACTAGCTCTAC-3′). For Southern blot analysis 4 μg of genomic DNA were digested using EcoRI, BglII, and HindIII. The fragments were fractionated by electrophoresis in a 0.8% agarose gel and then denaturated and neutralized. The hybridization was performed at 65 °C using an AtUTr1 or a GUS probe (cDNAs) radiolabeled by random priming oligolabeling kit (Fermentas). The genomic DNA was prepared as described by Silva et al. (CITATION).  UDP-glucose Uptake Assays in ER-derived Vesicles—ER vesicles were obtained as described above. For the uptake assays, 50 μg of protein corresponding to the ER vesicles from the wild type and atutr1 plants were incubated with 1 μm UDP-[3H]glucose (0.1 μCi) in a medium containing 0.25 m sucrose, 10 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, and 1 mm MgCl2 (STM buffer) for 3 min. To stop the reaction, the vesicles were diluted in cold STM buffer and filtered through 0.7-μm glass fiber filters. Subsequently the filters were washed with 10 volumes of cold STM buffer and dried, and the radioactivity was determinated by liquid scintillation counting.  Co-expression Analysis of AtUTr1, BiP, and Calnexin—The accession number for each gene (At2g02810, At5g42020, and At5g61790, respectively) was used to perform a co-expression analysis using the A. thaliana co-response data base module of CSB.DB. The matrix utilized contains all the genes analyzed for a set of abiotic stress experiments. The results are grouped automatically by function using the MAPMAN program. 
