!~ABS~! Triacylglycerol hydrolysis (lipolysis) plays a pivotal role in the life cycle of many plants by providing the carbon skeletons and energy that drive postgerminative growth. Despite the physiological importance of this process, the molecular mechanism is unknown. Here, a genetic screen has been used to identify Arabidopsis thaliana mutants that exhibit a postgerminative growth arrest phenotype, which can be rescued by providing sugar. Seventeen sugar-dependent (sdp) mutants were isolated, and six represent new loci. Triacylglycerol hydrolase assays showed that sdp1, sdp2, and sdp3 seedlings are deficient specifically in the lipase activity that is associated with purified oil bodies. Map-based cloning of SDP1 revealed that it encodes a protein with a patatin-like acyl-hydrolase domain. SDP1 shares this domain with yeast triacylglycerol lipase 3 and human adipose triglyceride lipase. In vitro assays confirmed that recombinant SDP1 hydrolyzes triacylglycerols and diacylglycerols but not monoacylglycerols, phospholipids, galactolipids, or cholesterol esters. SDP1 is expressed predominantly in developing seeds, and a SDP1–green fluorescent protein fusion was shown to associate with the oil body surface in vivo. These data shed light on the mechanism of lipolysis in plants and establish that a central component is evolutionarily conserved among eukaryotes.
!~RES~! Arabidopsis seeds rely on their stored oil reserves to support postgerminative growth until they achieve photosynthetic competence. Mutants that fail to deposit storage oil during seed maturation, or are unable to mobilize it upon germination, exhibit arrested seedling growth (CITATION; CITATION). Providing an alternative source of carbon, such as sucrose, can rescue the phenotype. Here, this selection strategy has been used in a forward genetic screen to isolate a collection of sdp Arabidopsis mutants. Approximately 240,000 ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS)–mutagenized M2 ecotype Columbia-0 (Col-0) seeds were screened according to the procedure described in Methods. Lines that inherited an sdp phenotype, but did not exhibit obvious defects in seed filling (CITATION), were selected for further analysis in this study. The lines are all recessive and fall into 17 complementation groups. Six of the groups represent new loci (sdp1 to 6). The remaining lines are allelic to previously characterized mutants. Table 1 contains a summary of the sdp mutant collection. Arabidopsis sdp Mutants To investigate whether any of the sdp mutants are deficient in TAG lipase activity, enzyme assays were performed on extracts from germinating seeds, using emulsified triolein as a substrate (CITATION). Control experiments performed on wild-type Arabidopsis seeds show that the rate of triolein hydrolysis increases >10-fold after germination (Figure 1A) and that a proportion of this activity (10 to 20% on a per seedling basis) is associated with purified oil body membranes (Figure 1B). Similar results have also been reported by CITATION. When extracts from the sdp mutants were assayed, it was discovered that sdp1, sdp2, and sdp3 are defective specifically in oil body membrane lipase activity (Figure 1B). These data suggest that SDP1, 2, and 3 are likely to play an important role in TAG hydrolysis. In this study, SDP1 has been cloned and characterized. [[FIGURE]] The sdp1 mutant is not significantly impaired in germination (see Supplemental Table 1 online). However, sdp1 exhibits a much slower rate of postgerminative growth than the wild type, and this retarded growth is rescued by the provision of 1% (w/v) sucrose (Figure 2A). Once sdp1 seedlings develop photosynthetic activity, they grow normally and are indistinguishable from the wild type throughout the rest of their life cycle. Although 5-d-old sdp1-1 seedlings grown on sucrose appear morphologically normal, both light and electron microscopy revealed that the cells retain clusters of oil bodies (Figures 2B and 2C). By contrast, essentially no oil bodies remain in wild-type cotyledon cells by this stage of development (Figures 2B and 2C). [[FIGURE]] Measurement of the TAG content of sdp1 seeds germinated in the presence of sucrose confirmed that the mutant is severely impaired in its ability to breakdown TAG. The level of TAG declined by <20% over the course of the first 5 d of postgerminative growth in sdp1-1, while in wild-type seedlings, it fell by 98% (Figure 3A). Similar results were also obtained for the other sdp1 alleles (data not shown). In germinating seedlings, the fatty acids that are released from the oil body are activated to acyl-CoAs before they are catabolized by peroxisomal fatty acid β-oxidation (CITATION). Measurements performed on 2-d-old sdp1-1 seedlings show that levels of long-chain acyl-CoAs are significantly reduced relative to the wild type (Figure 3B). Together, these data support the hypothesis that sdp1 is specifically impaired in storage oil hydrolysis. Enzyme assays performed on extracts from germinating sdp1-1 seedlings also suggest that despite the reduced availability of substrate in vivo, the enzymic capacity of fatty acid β-oxidation, the glyoxylate cycle, and gluconeogenesis are not reduced (see Supplemental Table 2 online). [[FIGURE]] High-resolution mapping was used to locate the SDP1 locus. The sdp1-1 mutant was outcrossed to wild-type ecotype Landsberg erecta and 768 sdp1-1 lines selected from the F2 progeny. PCR-based polymorphic markers were then used to localize SDP1 to an ∼12-kb region on the north arm of chromosome 5, situated between markers CTR1 and ciw15 (Figure 4A). This region contains four genes. The genomic sequence of each candidate was sequenced from three (of the five) EMS sdp1 alleles, and point mutations were found in the coding region of At5g04040 (Figure 4B). In sdp1-1, sdp1-2, and sdp1-3 plants, point mutations lead to single amino acid substitutions in the protein (Glu438 to Lys, Pro456 to Ser, and Gly241 to Asp). Two null alleles of sdp1 were also obtained from T-DNA Express (CITATION). The sdp1-4 (SALK_102887) and sdp1-5 (SALK_076697) alleles contain single T-DNAs inserted in the first exon of At5g04040 (Figure 4B), and both exhibit the same phenotype as the EMS alleles (Figure 2A). [[FIGURE]] A full-length cDNA encoding At5g04040 (GenBank accession number AY136470) has previously been isolated by the SSP Consortium (CITATION). The SDP1 polypeptide is 825 amino acid residues long and has a calculated molecular mass of 92 kD. Querying the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) Conserved Domain Database (CITATION) revealed that the sequence contains a predicted patatin-like domain (Pfam01734) between amino acid residues 243 and 390. Patatin is an abundant storage protein from potato (Solanum tuberosum) tubers that is known to exhibit lipolytic activity (CITATION). Patatin is classified as a phospholipase type A2 and forms the prototype for a calcium-independent phospholipase A2 (iPLA2) subfamily with many members (CITATION). The patatin-like domain of SDP1 has a conserved Ser esterase motif (GXSXG) (Figure 5A) but lacks the nucleotide (GXGXXG) and Asp active site (DX[G/A]) signatures that are generally considered to be characteristic of the iPLA2 class (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Although patatin can hydrolyze a variety of substrates in vitro, it is not active against TAG (CITATION; CITATION). However, patatin-like proteins from yeast and animals have recently been discovered, which have bona fide TAG lipase activity. Triacylglycerol lipase 3 (TGL3), TGL4, and TGL5 are involved in oil breakdown in Saccharomyces cerevisiae (CITATION, CITATION), and adipose triglyceride lipase (ATGL/desnutrin/iPLA2-ζ) and Brummer lipase are necessary for fat hydrolysis in humans and Drosophila melanogaster, respectively (CITATION; CITATION). Interestingly, beyond the patatin-like domain, very little sequence similarity exists between the yeast and animal lipases. Arabidopsis SDP1 is most closely related to the family of three yeast lipases (Figures 5B and 5C), although the overall level of amino acid sequence similarity is relatively small (<30%). Including SDP1, there are 12 proteins with a predicted patatin-like (Pfam01734) domain in Arabidopsis. Of these proteins, only At3g57140 (SDP1-like) shares significant sequence similarity with SDP1 (Figure 5C) (∼74% amino acid identity). Interestingly, Arabidopsis also contains a single patatin-like protein (At1g33270) that shares ∼28% amino acid similarity with ATGL and Brummer (Figure 5C). A BLAST search of the publicly available sequence databases showed that SDP1 homologues are distributed widely in plants. For example, the monocot Oryza sativa, the legume Medicago truncatula, and the moss Physcomitrella patens all contain proteins that share >60% amino acid identity with SDP1. To investigate whether SDP1 has TAG lipase activity, a His6-tagged recombinant version of the protein (rSDP1) was expressed in S. cerevisiae under the control of the GAL1 promoter and purified using nickel-chelating resin (Figure 6A). In vitro assays showed that rSDP1 can hydrolyze [14C]triolein readily, with a specific activity of ∼40 μmol mg−1 protein min−1 under the conditions used in this study (Figure 6B). The rate of hydrolysis was proportional to the amount of protein (data not shown) and also to the amount of emulsified substrate, up to ∼9 mg mL−1 (equivalent to ∼10 mM) (Figure 6C). When the pH of the assay medium was varied, rSDP1 was found to have a broad optimum around pH 8.0 (Figure 5D). [[FIGURE]] To further characterize rSDP1, its activity was tested against a variety of substrates (Table 2). rSDP1 could hydrolyze TAGs containing long- and medium-chain saturated fatty acids and long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids. The enzyme was much less active on DAG [sn-1,2(2,3) diolein and sn-1,3 diolein] and could not hydrolyze MAG (sn-1 monoolein). The selectivity of rSDP1 for TAG was supported by analysis of the products of [14C]triolein hydrolysis (Figure 6B). The major products were oleic acid and diolein. Relatively little monoolein was produced. rSDP1 was unable to hydrolyze a representative phospholipid (1,2-dioleoyl-3-phosphatidylcholine), a galactolipid (monogalactosyldiacylglycerol), a sterol ester (cholesteryl-oleate), an acyl-CoA (oleoyl-CoA), or an artificial ester (p-nitrophenyl palmitate) (Table 2). Substrate Specificity of rSDP1 and Effect of Inhibitors The effect of known inhibitors of lipases was investigated using triolein as a substrate (Table 2). The activity of rSDP1 was sensitive to preincubation with the classical Ser esterase inhibitors diethyl-p-nitrophenyl phosphate and diisopropyl fluorophosphate. The mechanism-based iPLA2 inhibitor [E]-6-[bromoethylene]-3-[1-naphthalenyl]-2H-tetrahydropyran-2-one (CITATION) also inhibited rSDP1 activity at submicromolar concentrations. These data lend experimental evidence to suggest that SDP1 uses the same catalytic mechanism as patatin (CITATION). The expression of SDP1 was investigated by searching the publicly available microarray database, using Genevestigator (CITATION). This search suggested that SDP1 is expressed almost exclusively in late seed development, a pattern that is more normally associated with genes involved in storage reserve synthesis rather than breakdown. More detailed analysis using real-time PCR confirmed that SDP1 transcript abundance increases at the beginning of seed maturation, when oil is actively being deposited, and remains high right up until seed desiccation is completed (Figure 7A). SDP1 mRNA levels are also high early in seed imbibition, but they decline as the seed germinates and remain relatively low throughout postgerminative growth, when oil catabolism is most active (Figure 7A). [[FIGURE]] The fact that oil body membranes from germinating sdp1 seeds are deficient in lipase activity strongly suggests that SDP1 is an oil body–associated protein. To investigate the subcellular location of SDP1 in vivo, an SDP1–green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion was transiently expressed in 5-d-old sdp1-1 seedlings, under the control of the 35S promoter. Confocal microscopy showed that in living cells, SDP1-GFP associates with the surface of oil bodies (Figure 7B). Fractionation of a seedling homogenate by centrifugation confirmed that SDP1-GFP is predominantly localized to the oil body fraction (Figure 7C), and lipase assays performed on purified oil body membranes also showed that the fusion protein is catalytically active (Figure 7C).
!~MM~! Wild-type Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotypes Col-0 and Landsberg erecta) and the T-DNA Express lines (SALK_102887 and SALK_076697) were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (University of Nottingham, UK). EMS-mutagenized Col-0 seed was purchased from Lehle Seeds. Ian Graham (University of York, UK) and Bonnie Bartel (Rice University, Houston, TX) kindly provided the mutants used for complementation tests. All reagents were obtained from Sigma-Aldrich, except for glycerol tri[1-14C]oleate, which was from Amersham Biosciences. For the sugar-dependent mutant screen, EMS M2 seeds >250 μM in diameter were selected using a sieve. This procedure removed poorly developed seeds that otherwise greatly increase the background of the screen. Approximately 240,000 seeds were sterilized, applied to agar plates containing half-strength MS salts, pH 5.7, and imbibed at 4°C for 4 d. The plates were then exposed to light (PPFD = 150 μmol m−2 s−1) for 30 min and incubated for 5 d in a vertical orientation in the dark at 21°C. Seeds that germinated but did not develop hypocotyls longer than ∼1 cm were selected and rescued onto agar plates containing half-strength MS salts plus 1% (w/v) sucrose, pH 5.7. The initial selection was performed on dark-grown seedlings because this treatment accentuates the seedlings dependence on their storage reserves and therefore increases the stringency of the screen (CITATION). The rescued seedlings were grown on plates in continuous light (PPFD = 150 μmol m−2 s−1) at 21°C until they were photosynthetically competent and then transferred to soil and grown to seed in the glasshouse. The lines were rescreened under the same conditions in the presence and absence of sucrose in the dark (and in the light). Those lines that inherited a requirement of sucrose to support postgerminative growth were retained for further analysis. The EMS sdp alleles used in this study were backcrossed three times to wild-type Col-0. The extraction and purification of oil body membranes from germinating Arabidopsis seeds was adapted from the method of CITATION, and all steps were performed at 4°C. Approximately 0.5 g fresh weight of imbibed seeds or 2-d-old seedlings were ground gently with a mortar and pestle in 3 mL of grinding medium. The homogenate was centrifuged at 100g for 5 min to pellet cell debris. A 200-μL sample of the supernatant (crude extract) was kept for lipase assays. The remaining supernatant was overlaid with a cushion of 60% (w/v) sucrose/1 mM EDTA, pH 7.5, and centrifuged at 10,000g for 15 min. The oil pad (above the cushion) was removed and dispersed in 10% (w/v) sucrose/1 mM EDTA, pH 7.5. The emulsion was overlaid with 1 mM EDTA, pH 7.5, and centrifuged for 15 min at 10,000g. This procedure was repeated twice more before the oil pad was delipidated by extracting three times with an equal volume of diethyl ether. Any remaining traces of diethyl ether were removed under a stream of N2 gas. Lipase assays were performed on plant extracts and on purified recombinant protein using the methods described by CITATION. The only modification was that the standard reaction mixture was adapted from CITATION and consisted of 50 mM Bis-Tris propane/HCl, pH 8, 2 mM DTT, 2 mM CaCl2, and substrate. Protein content was determined as described by CITATION using BSA as a standard. The preparation of seedling extracts for measurements of β-oxidation, glyoxylate cycle, and gluconeogenesis enzymes and the details of the assay protocols have been described previously (CITATION; CITATION). TAGs were extracted from seeds and seedlings and their fatty acid content measured by gas chromatography analysis essentially as described by CITATION, except that the tissue was homogenized in 1.5-mL tubes using a pestle attached to a drill. Acyl-CoAs were extracted and measured as described by CITATION. Transmission electron microscopy was performed as described previously (CITATION). Five-day-old Arabidopsis seedlings were fixed for 2 h in 2.5% (v/v) glutaraldehyde and 4% (v/v) formaldehyde in 100 mM phosphate buffer, pH 7.0, with a secondary fixation of 1% (w/v) osmium tetroxide in phosphate buffer for 1 h. The tissue was embedded in Spurr's resin, sectioned, and stained with uranyl acetate and Reynolds lead citrate. Light microscopy was performed using a Zeiss LSM 510 Meta on an Axioplan 2M, fitted with a ×63 Plan Apo lens (numerical aperture 1.4). Samples containing GFP were excited with a 488-nm argon laser and emission collected via a 505- to 530-nm band-pass filter. Bright-field images were captured simultaneously with the transmission detector. The sdp1-1 mutant was outcrossed to wild-type ecotype Landsberg erecta. F1 plants were allowed to self-fertilize, and the F2 progeny were screened for the sugar-dependent phenotype. Genomic DNA was isolated from 768 F2 sdp1-1 lines using the Extract-N-Amp plant PCR kit (Sigma-Aldrich). Mapping was performed using simple sequence length polymorphism (CITATION) and cleaved-amplified polymorphic sequence markers (CITATION). Appropriate markers were designed using information from the Monsanto Arabidopsis polymorphism collection (CITATION) and are listed in Supplemental Table 3 online. Candidate genes within the mapping interval were amplified from sdp1-1, sdp1-2, and sdp1-3 genomic DNA by PCR and sequenced to identify mutations. For the construction of N-terminal His6-tagged SDP1 under a GAL1 promoter (selectable marker TRP+), the open reading frame was amplified by PCR from Arabidopsis cDNA using gene-specific primers (5′-GTACCGATGCATCATCATCATCATCATGATATAAGTAATGAGGCTAGT-3′ and 5′-TCTAGACTAAGCATCTATAACACTACCAGACA-3′). The PCR product was cloned into the pCR2.1-TOPO vector from Invitrogen. Using standard molecular techniques (CITATION), SDP1 was then excised with KpnI and XbaI and the fragment inserted into the multiple cloning site of the pYES2 plasmid (Invitrogen). The plasmid was transformed into yeast INVSc1 cells using the Invitrogen S. c. EasyComp kit. Protein expression was induced and yeast cells were grown to early stationary phase as described by CITATION. rSDP1 protein was purified under native conditions using the ProBond purification system (Invitrogen). The procedure was as described by the manufacturer except that 2 mM sodium taurodeoxycholate was included in the buffers. For SDS-PAGE, the protein samples were first solubilized in 0.1% (w/v) SDS and 0.1% (w/v) NaOH at 37°C (CITATION) and then separated as described previously (CITATION). The gels were stained using 0.1% (w/v) Coomassie Brilliant Blue R 250 in methanol:acetic acid:water (4:1:5 [v/v/v]). DNase-treated total RNA was isolated from Arabidopsis seeds using the method of CITATION, which combines extraction in a borate buffer plus proteinase K with the RNeasy kit spin columns from Qiagen. The synthesis of single-stranded cDNA was performed using SuperScript II RNase H− reverse transcriptase from Invitrogen. Steady state levels of SDP1 mRNA were measured by real-time quantitative PCR using an ABI Prism 7000 sequence detection system (Applied Biosystems) and the SYBR green PCR master mix as described by CITATION. The primers used were SDP1F (5′-AAATGGCTTACCGGAGGAAGTT-3′), SDP1R (5′-TGAGCCCATTCCTCATAAGTCA-3′), 18SF (5′-TCCTAGTAAGCGCGAGTCATC-3′), and 18SR (5′-CGAACACTTCACCGGATCAT-3′). SDP1 was amplified by PCR from Arabidopsis seed cDNA using primers 5′-CCATGGATATAAGTAATGAGGCTAGTGTCGAT-3′ and 5′-CCATGGCATCTATAACACTACCAGACACCGGTTC-3′. The PCR product was cloned into the pCR2.1-TOPO vector from Invitrogen. Subsequent cloning steps were performed using standard molecular techniques (CITATION). The 35S:GFP cassette from pAVA393 (CITATION) was cloned into pGREENII (CITATION) using the HindIII and XbaI sites. SDP1 was then digested from pCR2.1 using NcoI and subcloned into the NcoI site of the modified pGREENII vector. One milligram of gold particles (1-μm diameter) was coated with 6 μg of vector DNA by ethanol precipitation. Seedlings were bombarded with ∼50 μg of gold particles using a Helios gene gun system (Bio-Rad Laboratories) according to the manufacturer's instructions. GFP and oil body membrane lipase activity were detected after 24 h. The patatin-like (Pfam01734) domains in various lipases were identified by querying the NCBI Conserved Domain Database (CITATION). The amino acid sequences of the domains were aligned using ClustalX (version 1.83) (CITATION) and edited with BioEdit (version 5.0.9) (CITATION). The alignment is shown in Supplemental Figure 1 online. A consensus phylogenetic tree was constructed with the neighbor-joining method using MEGA (version 2.1) (CITATION), and bootstrap values were determined from 1000 trials. The tree was drawn using TreeView (version 1.6.6.). Sequence data for the genes (or proteins) from this article can be found in the GenBank data library under accession numbers AY136470 (SDP1), AK117921 (SDP1-like), BX813896 (ATGL-like), NP_014044 (TGL3), NP_013015 (TGL4), NP_014724 (TGL5), AY894804 (ATGL), NM_140466 (Brummer lipase), X01125 (Patatin), and AJ002596 (Patatin-like1). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. An Amino Acid Sequence Alignment of Patatin-Like Domains Found in Lipases from Animals, Plants, and Yeast. Supplemental Table 1. Frequency of sdp1 Germination. Supplemental Table 2. The Activities of Enzymes Involved in the Conversion of Fatty Acids to Sugar in sdp1 Seedlings. Supplemental Table 3. New SSLP and CAPS Markers Used to Map SDP1.
