!~ABS~! Phototropins 1 and 2 (phot1 and phot2) function as blue light (BL) photoreceptors for phototropism, chloroplast relocation, stomatal opening and leaf flattening in Arabidopsis thaliana. Phototropin consists of two functional domains, the N-terminal photosensory domain and the C-terminal Ser/Thr kinase domain. However, little is known about the signal transduction pathway that links the photoreceptors and the physiological responses downstream of BL perception. To understand the mechanisms by which phot2 initiates these responses, we transformed the phot1phot2 double mutant of Arabidopsis with constructs encoding translationally fused phot2:green fluorescent protein (P2G). P2G was fully functional for the phot2-specific physiological responses in these transgenic plants. It localized strongly to the plasma membrane and weakly to the cytoplasm in the dark. Upon illumination with BL, punctate P2G staining was formed within a few minutes in addition to the constitutive plasma membrane staining. This punctate distribution pattern matched well with that of the Golgi-localized KAM1ΔC:mRFP. Brefeldin A (BFA), an inhibitor of vesicle trafficking, induced accumulation of P2G around the perinuclear region even in darkness, but the punctate pattern was not observed. After treatment of these cells with BL, P2G exhibited the punctate distribution pattern that matched with that of the Golgi marker. Hence, the light-dependent association of P2G with the Golgi apparatus was BFA-insensitive. A structure/function analysis indicated that the kinase domain was essential for the Golgi localization of phot2. The BL-induced Golgi localization of phot2 may be one of important signaling steps in the phot2 signal transduction pathway.
!~RES~! To investigate the subcellular localization of phot2, we produced transgenic plants expressing P2G in the phot1phot2 double-mutant background under control of the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter (35–P2G line) or the authentic PHOT2 promoter (P2–P2G line) (Figure 1a). Using the phot1-5phot2-2 mutant as the host line for transformation, we established 13 35–P2G and 10 P2–P2G independent lines. Of these, the 35–P2G 14-2 line that showed high expression of P2G and the P2–P2G 10-1 line that expressed at the endogenous level were chosen as representative lines and used for the following experiments (Figure 1b). These transgenic plants expressed P2G at the expected size (about 130 kDa). No extra band was detected in the immunoblot analysis with an anti-GFP antibody in 35–P2G lines (Figure 1c), ensuring that most of the GFP fluorescence observed below was not from fragmented proteins. [[FIGURE]] Observation of GFP fluorescence revealed that hypocotyl expression of P2G in 35–P2G 14-2 was much higher than that in P2–P2G 10-1 in dark-grown seedlings (Figure 1d). Phototropin 1:GFP accumulates in the apical and basal ends of the cortical cells of both hypocotyl and root (CITATION). Although we attempted to examine whether a similar pattern was observed for P2G, the expression in the cortical cells of the P2–P2G lines was too low to be determined. In the 35–P2G lines we could detect the fluorescence but asymmetric distribution was less clear compared with phot1:GFP (CITATION). Next, we tested whether P2G complemented the phot2-deficient phenotypes in the phot1phot2 double-mutant background. Phototropism, chloroplast relocation and leaf shape were examined in the above lines. The 35–P2G and the P2–P2G transgenic seedlings showed hypocotyl curvature in response to a high intensity of BL (40 μmol m−2sec−1), whereas no curvature was observed in the phot1-5phot2-2 double mutant (Figure 2a). In addition, the 35–P2G transgenic plants showed a partial response towards lower intensities of BL (less than 2 μmol m−2 sec−1) (Figure 2a). [[FIGURE]] The photoaccumulation and photoavoidance responses of chloroplasts were examined. Under a low intensity of BL (1.2 μmol m−2 sec−1), chloroplasts accumulated in the irradiated area in the wild type, the phot1-5 mutant and the 35–P2G 14-2 transgenic plant (Figure 2b). The avoidance response from a high intensity of BL (20 μmol m−2 sec−1) was also observed in this line (Figure 2b). The rosette leaves of the phot1-5phot2-2 double mutant curled downwards, as previously reported (CITATION; CITATION). Flat leaves were clearly restored in the 35–P2G 14-2 transgenic line (Figure 2c). The complementation was also observed in the P2–P2G 10-1 line (data not shown). Taken together, we concluded that P2G was fully functional in these transgenic plants. Although data on representative lines only are shown below, we confirmed the results in other lines. Phototropin 1:GFP fusion protein shows light-dependent dissociation from the plasma membrane in response to confocal laser beam irradiation (CITATION). We examined P2G distribution in the cotyledon epidermal cells of the 3-day-old dark-grown seedlings because they were less vacuolated and exhibited high P2G expression in both 35–P2G and P2–P2G (Figure 1d). Although it was ideal to examine the subcellular distribution of P2G in P2–P2G, we mainly used 35–P2G in the following experiments. This was because the latter provided a more convenient system for monitoring the subcellular distribution in terms of signal strength. The 35–P2G 14-2 seedlings were observed under a confocal microscope. To minimize the effects of actinic BL, images taken only from the first confocal scan were regarded to represent the dark state. In those cells, strong P2G fluorescence was observed in the plasma membrane region, but weak and uniform fluorescence was observed in the cytoplasm (Figure 3a1). We noticed that multiple scans of the samples induced a punctate pattern of P2G distribution in addition to the constitutive plasma membrane localization (Figure 3a2,a3; Video S1). [[FIGURE]] We further examined the localization of P2G after light treatments. The 35–P2G 14-2 seedlings were illuminated with BL (48 μmol m−2 sec−1) or red light (RL) (50 μmol m−2sec−1). The punctate pattern was clearly observed in the BL-treated cells (Figure 3b–d), where a faint punctate pattern was observed as early as 2 min after the onset of BL (Figure 3a2,b). By contrast, punctate staining was not observed in the RL-treated cells (Figure 3e1,f). We confirmed that treatment of these RL-treated cells with laser actinic BL induced the punctate staining (Figure 3e2). Although observation was more difficult because of lower expression, distribution of P2G in both the plasma membrane and cytoplasm was observed in the dark-grown P2–P2G 10-1 seedlings (Figure 3g). Furthermore, we could confirm the BL-induced punctate staining of P2G (Figure 3h). Therefore, we concluded that the punctate distribution of P2G observed in the 35–P2G transgenic plants was not due to ectopic expression by the 35S promoter. We then examined whether or not the response was cell-autonomous. When a restricted area of the cotyledon of the 35–P2G 14-2 seedlings was irradiated with BL (20 μmol m−2 sec−1) the punctate staining was induced only in the irradiated area and its vicinity (Figure 3j). The BL-induced punctate distribution of P2G was further confirmed in other cell types. The mesophyll protoplasts were prepared from the 35–P2G 14-2 rosette leaves and then dark adapted. Confocal microscopic observation revealed that punctate staining of P2G was formed by BL treatment of these cells with either a confocal laser beam or light-emitting diodes (LEDs) (Figure 4a,b). We observed guard cells of the rosette leaves of the dark-adapted 35–P2G plants (Figure 4c,d) and hypocotyl epidermis of the dark-grown seedlings in similar ways (Figure 4e,f). As expected, punctate staining was also observed in these cells after treatment with BL. [[FIGURE]] The level of phot1 protein is downregulated by BL (CITATION). To address whether BL affects the level of phot2, the dark-grown wild-type seedlings were treated with BL for various periods of time and subjected to the immunoblot analysis. The antibody, which was raised against the N-terminal domain of phot2, reacted with both phot2 and phot1 (Figure 5a). The phot1 signal decreased substantially in response to BL as described (CITATION) whereas that of phot2 was barely affected by BL (Figure 5a). [[FIGURE]] Subcellular distribution of phot2 and P2G was further examined by protein fractionation. The crude protein extracts of the wild-type and the 35–P2G 14-2 dark-grown seedlings were fractionated into soluble and pellet fractions by high-speed centrifugation. The phot2 and P2G signals were detected in the pelleted microsomal fraction but almost no signal was detected in the soluble fractions (Figure 5b). Furthermore, neither phot2 nor P2G was detected in the soluble fraction even after BL irradiation for 30 min (Figure 5b). Green fluorescent protein, which is a typical soluble protein, was detected in the soluble fraction in the 35–GFP 3-2 seedlings under the same condition (Figure 5c). To address whether P2G was associated with any particular structure, we examined the co-localization of P2G with various subcellular markers, such as KAM1ΔC:mRFP for the Golgi apparatus (CITATION), peroxisome-targeted mRFP for peroxisome (CITATION), F1-ATPase-γ:RFP for mitochondria (CITATION) and FM4-64 dye for plasma membrane and/or endosome (CITATION) in mesophyll protoplasts prepared from the leaves of the 35–P2G transgenic lines. The majority of P2G punctate staining overlapped with the red fluorescence of KAM1ΔC:mRFP and to some extent with that of FM4-64, but overlap was not observed for the other markers (data not shown). To confirm BL-dependent Golgi localization of P2G, we crossed the 35–P2G 14-2 transgenic line with a transgenic plant expressing KAM1ΔC:mRFP and observed the F1 seedlings. The P2G was mainly localized in the plasma membrane in the dark-grown seedlings, whereas the red fluorescence of KAM1ΔC:mRFP was observed only as punctate staining in the cytoplasm (Figure 6a1,a2). After irradiation with BL, punctate staining of P2G appeared throughout the cytoplasm, whereas the distribution pattern of KAM1ΔC:mRFP was not affected (Figure 6b,c). As expected, about 80% of P2G punctate stains overlapped with those of KAM1ΔC:mRFP at 5 min after BL illumination (Figure 6b,d). Prolonged BL illumination for 30 min increased the overlapping ratio to 94% (Figure 6c,d). Therefore, we concluded that a fraction of P2G was associated with the Golgi apparatus in response to BL (Figure 6; Video S2). [[FIGURE]] Brefeldin A (BFA) is a vesicle trafficking inhibitor which induces Golgi–endoplasmic reticulum (ER) fusion and formation of the BFA compartment (CITATION). We examined the effects of BFA on the Golgi association of P2G. Brefeldin A affected the distribution patterns of P2G both in darkness and under BL. In darkness, the P2G fluorescence was observed within a restricted region of the cytoplasm in addition to the intense plasma membrane staining (Figure 7a1, +BFA; Figure S1). However, no punctate staining was recognized. In the same cell, KAM1ΔC:mRFP formed large aggregates of punctate staining around P2G (Figure 7a). After illumination of the seedling, the punctate staining of P2G appeared within the region where P2G accumulated (Figure 7b, +BFA; Figure S1, Video S3). These BL-induced punctate stains overlapped well with that of KAM1ΔC:mRFP (Figure 7b,c). We further examined whether or not P2G accumulated in the nucleus in the presence of BFA. Nuclear staining with propidium iodide revealed that the punctate stains of P2G accumulated in the vicinity of, but not inside, the nucleus (Figure 7e). [[FIGURE]] As shown in Figure 8(a), phot2 is divided into two functional domains, the N-terminal photosensory domain and the C-terminal kinase domain (CITATION). We investigated which of these two domains was responsible for the Golgi localization of P2G using the protoplast transient expression system. As expected, P2G exhibited both plasma membrane and punctate localization in the protoplasts treated with BL for 5 min (Figure 8b). The N-terminal domain fused to GFP (P2NG) was observed uniformly in the cytoplasm (Figure 8c), whereas the C-terminal domain fused to GFP (P2CG) exhibited intense punctate staining in the cytoplasm (Figure 8d). Furthermore, the intensity in the plasma membrane region was significantly reduced for P2CG compared with that for P2G (Figure 8b,d). [[FIGURE]] We then examined co-localization of the above fragments with the Golgi marker. Protoplasts co-expressing P2G, P2NG or P2CG with KAM1ΔC:mRFP were observed. As expected, the punctate stains of P2G and P2CG overlapped well with those of KAM1ΔC:mRFP (Figure 8n,p). By contrast, no overlap was observed in the protoplast expressing P2NG and KAM1ΔC:mRFP (Figure 8o). We further examined whether kinase activity is required for the Golgi localization of P2CG. The Asp residue in subdomain VII of the C-terminal kinase domain of phototropins is required for kinase activity (CITATION). We expressed P2CG with a point mutation at this residue (P2C[D720/N]G) in the protoplasts. As shown in Figure 8(e), both plasma membrane and punctate fluorescence was observed for P2C(D720/N)G. The pattern was similar to that of P2CG except that the extent of plasma membrane fluorescence was greater in some cases. We confirmed that the punctate stains overlapped well with those of KAM1ΔC:mRFP (Figure 8q). Hence, kinase activity is not essential for the Golgi association in the absence of the N-terminal domain. We produced transgenic plants expressing P2(D720/N)G under control of the 35S promoter on the phot1-5phot2-2 double-mutant background. The plants showed no complementation of the phototropic, chloroplast movement and leaf shape phenotypes (data not shown). In darkness, strong P2(D720/N)G fluorescence was observed in the plasma membrane region and weak and uniform fluorescence was observed in the cytoplasm (Figure 8r). This pattern was very similar to that of P2G in darkness (Figure 3a1,g). Nevertheless, P2(D720/N)G failed to exhibit the punctate staining pattern even after prolonged BL irradiation (Figure 8s). Hence, kinase activity appeared to be required for the Golgi association in the full-length context.
!~MM~! The full-length phot2 (P2, Met1 to Phe915), the phot2 N-terminus (P2N, Met1 to Asn533) and the phot2 C-terminus (P2C, Thr534 to Phe915) were amplified by PCR from PHOT2 cDNA (CITATION) with the primer pairs P2-1fw/NcoI (5′-AACCATGGAGAGGCCAAGAGCCCCT-3′) and P2-2745rv/SalI (5′-AAGTCGACGAAGAGGTCAATGTCCAAGTC-3′) for P2, P2-1fw/NcoI and P2-1599rv/SalI (5′-AAGTCGACATTAGCATCTGGAAGCTCTC-3′) for P2N and P2-1663fw/NcoI (5′-AACCATGGCGCGGCCCGAAGACCTGTGGG-3′) and P2-2745rv/SalI for P2C, respectively. The amplified fragments were cut with NcoI and SalI and ligated into the NcoI–SalI sites of 35S:GFP-nosT/pUC, a transient expression vector (Figure 8a). The D720/N mutation was introduced into PHOT2 and P2C by using the QuikChange Site-directed Mutagenesis Kit (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA, USA). The DNA fragments of P2:GFP, P2(D720/N):GFP and GFP were cloned into the P35S-nosT/pPZP211 transformation vector (Figure 1a) to give the transformation vectors, P35S:P2G, P35S:P2(D720/N)G and P35S:GFP, respectively. The PHOT2 authentic promoter was cloned from a BAC clone (Stock #, K21L19). The genomic fragment including the promoter region (−3047 to +371) replaced the corresponding region of the 35S promoter using the HindIII and SacI sites to give the PP2-nosT/pPZP211 transformation vector (Figure 1a). The P2G DNA fragment was cut with Sa I and PstI and ligated into the SacI–PstI site of PP2-nosT/pPZP211 to give a transformation vector PP2:P2G (Figure 1a). The Arabidopsis thaliana mutant lines phot1-5 (CITATION), phot2-1 (cav1-1), phot2-2 (cav1-2) (CITATION), phot1-5phot2-1 (CITATION) and phot1-5phot2-2 (CITATION) were used. The gl-1 mutant (ecotype Columbia), which is the parental line of the above phot mutant lines, was used as the wild-type control. The P35S:P2G, P35S:P2(D720/N)G, and PP2:P2G constructs were transformed into the phot1-5phot2-2 double mutant by using the floral dip method (CITATION). The P35S:GFP construct was transformed into the wild type in the same way. Kanamycin-resistant plants were selected on Murashige and Skoog (MS) agar. All analyses were carried out using independent transformants from the T3 generation. Transgenic lines expressing KAM1ΔC:mRFP (KT and IH-N, unpublished results) and ST:GFP (CITATION) under the control of the 35S promoter were used as Golgi marker lines. Hypocotyl curvatures were assayed essentially as described previously (CITATION). The BL was produced by LEDs (peak at 470 nm, half-bandwidth = 30 nm; LED-mB, EYELA, Tokyo, Japan). Rosette leaves of 4-week-old plants which were grown at 23°C under 16-h day/8-h night cycles were used for the analysis of chloroplast movement. Chloroplast movement was examined essentially as described (CITATION) except that the light intensity was slightly altered. The monochromatic BL was produced by combination of a band-path filter (peak at 450 nm, half-bandwidth = 30 nm; S450/30m, Chroma, Rockingham, VT, USA) with a dichromic mirror and interference filters (Olympus, Osaka, Japan). The phot2 N-terminal fragment (P2N, Met1 to Asn533) was prepared from glutathione S-transferase (GST):P2N fusion proteins after the cleavage of the thrombin site according to the instructions of the manufacturer (Amersham Biosciences, Piscataway, NJ, USA). The purified P2N protein (0.55 mg ml−1) was used to produce rabbit anti-phot2 polyclonal antibody. The protein was injected into a rabbit subcutaneously with complete Freund's adjuvant. After 3 weeks, two booster injections with incomplete adjuvant were given at 7-day intervals. Two weeks after the booster injections, blood was drawn and the antibody was prepared. Specificity of the antibody was confirmed by immunoblotting (Figure 1b). Crude extracts were prepared from the 3-day-old dark-grown seedlings with or without BL (40 μmol m−2 sec−1) treatment for the indicated time periods. The tissues were homogenized in a 1:2 (w/v) ratio of extraction buffer [50 mm HEPES-KOH, pH 7.5, 0.3 m sucrose, 5 mm EDTA, 5 mm MgCl2, 1 mm DTT, and complete proteinase inhibitors (Roche, Mannheim, Germany)] with a glass mortar and pestle on ice. The homogenates were centrifuged at 8000 g for 15 min at 4°C and the supernatants were ultracentrifuged at 100 000 g for 1 h at 4°C. Equal volumes corresponding to 50 μg protein in the total homogenates (T) were taken from the soluble (S) and the pelleted (P) fractions and were subjected to SDS-PAGE. All the extraction procedures were conducted under red safe light. Immunoblot analysis was performed essentially as described previously (CITATION), except that the primary antibody was anti-phot2 polyclonal antibody at a dilution of 1:5000 or anti-GFP monoclonal antibody (nacalai, Kyoto, Japan) at a dilution of 1:1000. Mesophyll protoplasts were prepared from the rosette leaves of the 3–4-week-old phot1-5phot2-1 double mutant and transiently transformed with the chimeric genes as described (CITATION). The transformed protoplasts were incubated in the dark at 23°C for 12–16 h. The protoplasts on a slide glass were illuminated with 48 μmol m−2 sec−1 of BL for 5 min and set on a confocal stage. Protoplasts emitting bright GFP fluorescence were selected by fluorescence microscopy and subjected to confocal observation. Brefeldin A (Sigma-Aldrich, St Louis, MO, USA) was prepared at 5 mm in dimethyl sulfoxide. Three-day-old dark-grown seedlings were vacuum treated for 2 min in half-strength MS with or without 100 μm BFA and then incubated for 2 h in the presence of BFA before confocal observation. For nuclear staining, the seedlings were treated with propidium iodide (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR, USA) at a concentration of 10 μg ml−1 under a vacuum for 10 min immediately before light treatment. All procedures were conducted under green safe light. Confocal laser scanning microscopy was carried out in a dark room with the aid of green safe light. Optical specimens were prepared on a slide glass and then irradiated with BL (peak at 470 nm, half-bandwidth = 30 nm; LED-mB, EYELA) or RL (peak at 660 nm, half-bandwidth = 20 nm; LED-mR, EYELA) at various light intensities and durations indicated. The fluorescent images were obtained with a confocal laser scanning microscope (FV300+BX60, Olympus, Osaka, Japan) at the 2.62 sec scan−1 speed, and the dark sample was recorded as the first scan in this condition. The filter sets were 510–530 nm for GFP and 585–615 nm for mRFP (Olympus). The images and movies were processed using Adobe Photoshop 7.0 (Adobe Systems, Tokyo, Japan) and ImageJ 1.34i (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/), respectively.
