!~ABS~! • Background and Aims Neutral red (NR), a lipophilic phenazine dye, has been widely used in various biological systems as a vital stain for bright-field microscopy. In its unprotonated form it penetrates the plasma membrane and tonoplast of viable plant cells, then due to protonation it becomes trapped in acidic compartments. The possible applications of NR for confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) studies were examined in various aspects of plant root biology. • Methods NR was used as a fluorochrome for living roots of Phaseolus vulgaris, Allium cepa, A. porrum and Arabidopsis thaliana (wild-type and transgenic GFP-carrying lines). The tissues were visualized using CLSM. The effect of NR on the integrity of the cytoskeleton and the growth rate of arabidopsis primary roots was analysed to judge potential toxic effects of the dye. • Key Results The main advantages of the use of NR are related to the fact that NR rapidly penetrates root tissues, has affinity to suberin and lignin, and accumulates in the vacuoles. It is shown that NR is a suitable probe for visualization of proto- and metaxylem elements, Casparian bands in the endodermis, and vacuoles in cells of living roots. The actin cytoskeleton and the microtubule system of the cells, as well as the dynamics of root growth, remain unchanged after short-term application of NR, indicating a relatively low toxicity of this chemical. It was also found that NR is a useful probe for the observation of the internal structures of root nodules and of fungal hyphae in vesicular–arbuscular mycorrhizas. • Conclusions Ease, low cost and absence of tissue processing make NR a useful probe for structural, developmental and vacuole-biogenetic studies of plant roots with CLSM.
!~RES~! To allow unequivocal distinction of signals from NR and GFP, emission spectra of NR-stained structures were collected (Fig. 1). These data confirmed the wide emission spectra observed earlier and showed that the highest emission peak was 590 nm for vacuoles and 600 nm for protoxylem, metaxylem and Casparian bands. It was surprising to find that the emission spectra recorded in stained arabidopsis tissues showed up to five peaks or shoulders.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To study the potential toxicity of NR at the concentrations used for CLSM studies, arabidopsis root growth dynamics were analysed (Fig. 2). Roots grown in 0·2× MS medium supplemented with 4 μm NR (pH 5·8) stopped growing and did not recover for at least 5d of incubation in the medium (Fig. 2). However, after 5 d of growth in the medium supplemented with 1 μm NR (pH 5·8), roots were only 18 % shorter (but still significant, P < 0·05) than the roots grown in normal medium (Fig. 2). Interestingly, short-term treatment of 30 min in 4 μm NR (Fig. 2) or 1 μm NR (data not shown) did not inhibit subsequent root growth. These data indicate that the toxicity of NR is relatively low at 1 μm, which is the concentration sufficient to visualize Casparian band, xylem elements or vacuoles under CLSM.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Both the microtubule network and the actin cytoskeleton are very sensitive to disturbance and pharmacological treatments (for root cells, see Baluška et al., 1993, 1996, 2001a; Sivaguru et al., 1999; Barlow and Baluška, 2000). To test whether NR affects the microtubule network or the actin cytoskeleton in living roots, a comparative study was made of the roots of various transgenic lines where microtubules and the actin cytoskeleton were observed. Under the influence of NR, no significant differences were detected in the distribution of cortical microtubules in the elongated cells (Fig. 3A, B) of the GFP-MAP4 line [where GFP is fused to the microtubule-binding domain of the mammalian microtubule-associated protein 4 (MAP4) gene; Marc et al., 1998]. When the roots of this line were incubated for 2 h with 1 μm oryzalin (pH 5·8) changes in the orientation of cortical microtubules were observed. The 4-h treatment induced complete disorganization of microtubules (Supplementary Information, Fig. SF2). Incubation of the roots with NR did not have any of these effects. Also possible changes in the actin cytoskeleton induced by NR (1 μm and 4 μm, pH 5·8) were tested. There were no significant changes in the actin cytoskeleton, either in cortical cells of the transition zone of arabidopsis roots or in the young differentiation zone. In GFP-mTn and GFP-FABD2 lines, cells in the transition zone (root portion between the meristem and rapid elongation zone; Baluška et al., 2001b), both with and without NR treatments, had a similar distribution of F-actin arrays (Fig. 3C, D, H, G), suggesting that NR does not affect the actin cytoskeleton. Similarly, there were no significant differences in the actin cytoskeleton detected in recently elongated cortical cells in the roots of a GFP-ABD2 line (Fig. 3E, F). These observations indicate that 1 μm and 4 μm of NR is not cytotoxic for roots of arabidopsis when applied for up to 60 min.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Upon vital staining of roots of Arabidopsis thaliana, Col-0 and Ler, NR penetrated well into all root zones except the root apical meristem (pH 5·8 and 8·0, 0·4–40 μm of NR; Figs 4 and 5). Incubation in 0·4 μm NR prepared in 0·2× MS supplemented with 20 mm potassium-phosphate buffer (pH 8·0) for 15 min was sufficient for visualization of protoxylem, although the signal was still weak. After 3·5 h of incubation, fluorescence from the protoxylem was stronger (Supplementary Information, Fig. SF3). The images were acquired at the same laser settings. In this particular case, grey value levels increased 1·7 times after extensive staining. In the case of propidium iodide, even prolonged incubation at a high concentration (10 μg mL–1 for 30 min instead of the usual 1 min) did not result in penetration into the stele of living arabidopsis roots (10-d-old seedlings, mature root zone with Casparian bands differentiated; Supplementary Information, Fig. SF4).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In comparison to experiments at pH 5·8, staining of the cell walls was, in general, very weak at pH 8·0. However, protoxylem and metaxylem elements were well stained (Fig. 4B) and Casparian bands could be detected (Figs 4B and 5E; Table 1). They even appeared to be stained more specifically as the thickness of these stained structures at this pH was visually different from samples at pH 5·8. For example, the lignified cell wall component of the protoxylem elements appeared thinner when stained at alkaline pH in comparison to acidic pH (compare Figs SF3A and SF5A where roots were stained at 0·4 μm NR but at different pH; Supplementary Information). A similar effect could be observed upon addition of salt to the staining solution at pH 8·0 (50 mm KNO3, data not shown). In addition, in the presence of salt (50 mm KNO3) or concentrated buffer (1 m phosphate buffer), vacuoles of the transition zone (Fig. 5C, D) or transition and differentiation zone (Fig. 5E) were stained at pH 8·0, respectively. High buffer concentrations (1 m) induced plasmolysis in the root tissues and allowed visualization of vacuoles in all root zones. This was the only staining condition that permitted detection of the vacuolar system in the differentiation zone (Fig. 5E). Upon prolonged incubation (1 h) the root meristem could be stained consistently in a staining solution containing 0·1 m phosphate buffer at pH 8·0 (Fig. 5F). The other staining media were not effective in this case.  In the early differentiation zone, where the protoxylem is not yet differentiated, NR at pH 5·8 can be used as a general stain that serves well for recognition of various root tissues (Fig. 4A). In the more mature portion of the root, NR was found to be useful for detection of the Casparian bands of the endodermis cells (Fig. 4B) and proto- and metaxylem elements (Fig. 4B–E). Even the lowest concentration of NR tested (0·4 μm) was sufficient for visualization of these internal tissues (Supplementary Information, Fig. SF5, pH 5·8). At high concentrations of NR, staining of cell walls was too intense to detect Casparian bands. Under the same CLSM settings and the same staining time (0·4 μM NR, 10 min) there was no difference in the fluorescence intensity of cell walls in young and mature differentiation zones of the same root (comparing maximum fluorescence intensities estimated as grey values) (Supplementary Information, Fig. SF5B). However, some transgenic lines did show differences in the fluorescence intensity in comparison to wild-type plants (data not shown). It was found that 1 μm NR (pH 5·8) was sufficient to obtain transverse images of arabidopsis roots that permitted visualization of all tissues and the Casparian bands of the endodermis (Fig. 4E). Using NR and CLSM, Casparian bands could also be detected in a mutant with abnormal development of the ground tissue (Fig. 4C). The vacuolar system of root cortical cells in arabidopsis, A. cepa and P. vulgaris was studied for its NR-accumulation properties. At the basal portion of the root apical meristem, the vacuolar system of the cells is already formed in both arabidopsis and P. vulgaris roots. At this stage of cellular development, cells have a system of many small vacuoles. Some of them are <1 μm (Fig. 6A, 4 μm NR, pH 5·8, P. vulgaris). At the beginning of cell elongation in the transition zone, the vacuoles become progressively larger proportional to the increase in cell length (Fig. 6 B–D). In this process, the vacuoles fuse and finally form a large central vacuole (Fig. 6D). In effect the same observations were made for arabidopsis and A. cepa roots (data not shown). Good penetration ability of NR at pH 5·8 was also verified in such organs as the root nodule in P. vulgaris. Using NR, the general morphology of the nodule could be observed (Fig. 6E). NR mainly stained the vacuolar system of differentiated nodule cells. Central vacuoles were formed in the peripheral tissues of the nodules (Fig. 6F). In this case, NR could not penetrate into internal tissues possibly due to binding to peripheral structures.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Analysing an enhancer trap line of A. thaliana, J1701 where ER-GFP is expressed in the root cap and presumptive xylem elements, NR was visualized in the vacuolar system of the columella and lateral root cap cells (Fig. 7A, pH 5·8). In the protruding lateral root primordium, the vacuolar system of root cap cells was not detected (Fig. 7B, pH 5·8). At a more advanced stage, NR staining was similar in the primary and lateral roots at pH 5·8 (data not shown) and at pH 8·0 (Supplementary Information Fig. SF6 A, B).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Since NR rapidly penetrates into the tissues of the central cylinder of the root, it is a very useful probe for in vivo analysis of lateral root development. This is illustrated here using a PIN1:GFP line. NR-staining of xylem elements permits easy recognition of the plane of orientation, while the expression of PIN1:GFP highlights the lateral root primordia. In the roots stained with NR, primordia at stages II and IV (stage definition by Malamy and Benfey, 1997) located in the protoxylem plane can be seen (Fig. 7C, D; pH 5·8). Previously, the question about the minimum number of founder cells required for lateral root initiation in arabidopsis was studied and it was shown that three pericycle cells are sufficient to form a primordium (Dubrovsky et al., 2001). Analysing enhancer trap line J0121, where pericycle cells adjacent to protoxylem (detected by NR) express GFP, it was found that pericycle cells from three cell files adjacent to the protoxylem express GFP. When the root is placed in a protophloem plane, these cells can be observed above the protoxylem detected with NR in a longitudinal tangential (Fig. 7E) or transverse (Fig. 7F) optical section made with a CLSM. During lateral root development, a founder cell should theoretically be undergoing changes in the cytoskeleton as the cell polarity has to be changed during the formation of a new organ. The study of the cytoskeleton in deeper layers of living roots is not an easy task. The present attempt to visualize the cytoskeleton in the pericycle was possible when 4 μm NR (pH 5·8) was applied to living roots of GFP-mTn (Fig. 3I) and GFP-FABD2 (Fig. 3E) lines. The use of NR permitted the protoxylem to be recognized and thus the identification of the pericycle cells which are competent for lateral root formation in living roots of a transgenic line where GFP is fused either to mouse talin (Kost et al., 1998) or to the ABD2 actin-binding domain of plant fimbrin (Ketelaar et al., 2004; Voigt et al., 2005). In the transition zone, central nuclei are surrounded with an F-actin cage, which interacts with actin-rich end-poles (Fig. 3C and D). The use of NR will enable further studies of the underlying dynamics in the cytoskeleton. Fungal structures are barely visible in mycorrhizal roots without staining. In earlier studies, NR was introduced as a suitable vital stain for detection of arbuscules within colonized roots (Guttenberger 2000a, b). Here, it is demonstrated that NR, used as a fluorescent probe for CLSM, is suitable for improving the detection of fungal structures within roots. While the colonized plant cells show hardly any staining, the most intense fluorescence signal lies within fungal structures (Fig. 8). CLSM permitted 3-D reconstruction of fungal structures within roots (see Movie SM1, Supplementary Information).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis thaliana lines used were wild-type Col-0 and Ler, scr-3 (CS3997) mutant (Fukaki et al., 1998), enhancer trap lines J0121and J1701 (http://www.plantsci.cam.ac.uk/Haseloff/Home.html) and other transgenic lines: GFP-mammalian microtubule-associated protein 4 (GFP-MAP4) (Marc et al., 1998), mouse talin actin-binding domain fused to the C-terminus of GFP, GFP-mTn (Kost et al., 1998), GFP-actin-binding domain 2 (GFP-FABD2) (Ketelaar et al., 2004; Voigt et al., 2005) and PIN-FORMED1:GFP (PIN1:GFP) (Benková et al., 2003). These lines were selected to test general staining properties of NR (Col-0 and scr-3) and its effect on actin cytoskeleton (GFP-mTn and GFP-FABD2) and microtubule network (GFP-MAP4). Other GFP expressing lines (J0121, J1701 and PIN1:GFP) were used to test the possibility for cross-talk between green emission of GFP and red emission of NR (see below), as well as to examine how appropriate NR is for developmental studies. The seeds were surface sterilized for 10 min in 60 % (v/v) commercial bleach and 0·08 % (w/v) Triton X-100, rinsed four times with sterile distilled water and maintained at 4 °C for 48 h. Seeds were plated on 20 % Murashige and Skoog medium (MS), pH 5·8, supplemented with 1 % (w/v) sucrose and solidified with 0·8 % bacto-agar (Difco Laboratories, Detroit, MI, USA). Petri dishes were maintained in a vertical position at 23 °C under an 8-h dark/16-h light cycle (105 μmol m−2 s−1). To prevent any root damage, seedlings were selected with the root system growing on the agar surface.  Phaseolusvulgaris ‘Negro Jamapa’ seeds were surface sterilized with ethanol for 1 min and subsequently with 20 % bleach for 5 min and washed six times with sterile water. Seeds were germinated aseptically in Petri dishes containing wet filter paper to ensure germination. Germinated seeds were transferred to liquid Fahraeus medium (Fahraeus, 1957). The roots were inoculated withRhizobium etli, CE3 (Cárdenas et al., 2006).  Allium cepa seeds were germinated on filter paper moistened with distilled water. Growth and culture conditions of mycorrhizal plants (Glomus mosseae and Allium porrum) were described earlier (Guttenberger, 2000a, b). Arabidopsis plants were grown for 5 d on 0·2× MS medium, pH 5·8, and, for the toxicity test, transferred to the same agar medium containing filter-sterilized NR (1 μm and 4 μm; Merck, Darmstadt, Germany). Alternatively, roots of intact plants, 5 d after germination (dag), were incubated for 30 min in liquid 0·2× MS medium containing NR (1 μm and 4 μm) and then transferred to NR-free 0·2× MS medium. Root growth increments were recorded each 24 h. Experiments were repeated at least twice. Growth conditions were the same as indicated above. The actin cytoskeleton and the cortical microtubule network are very sensitive to toxic compounds (see the Results section). Therefore, the effect of NR on the cytoskeleton was investigated. Oryzalin (1 μm; Sigma), an inhibitor of microtubule polymerization (Hugdahl and Morejohn, 1993), served as a positive control for disruption of the microtubule network in living arabidopsis (Col-0 wild-type) roots. All observations were done on living roots of intact arabidopsis seedlings, 6–8 dag unless indicated otherwise, on whole roots of A. cepa 5 dag, and on excised portions of living roots of P. vulgaris 13 dag. Day 0 of germination was considered the day when seeds were plated on 0·2× MS medium. NR was used for the preparation of 4 mm stock solution in water and kept at 4 °C for 3 weeks. After that period a new stock was used. The final concentration of NR ranged from 0·4 μm to 40 μm and mostly was 1 μm or 4 μm. Only freshly prepared solutions were used. The pH of the staining solution was 5·8 (0·2× MS medium, optimal for growth) or 8·0 (for minimal background staining). At pH 8·0 the staining solution solvent consisted of (a) 0·1 m potassium phosphate buffer, (b) 1 m potassium phosphate buffer, both prepared in water, (c) 0·2× MS medium supplemented with 20 mm potassium phosphate buffer, or (d) medium (c) supplemented with 50 mm KNO3. Since for arabidopsis roots background staining was acceptable at pH 5·8, the staining solution was mostly prepared in 0·2× MS medium. For staining of arabidopsis roots, 1–10 min of incubation was sufficient. In some cases material was kept in NR solution for up to 3·5 h. When roots were stained with a very low concentration of NR (0·4 μM, pH 5·8 and 8·0) the time required for staining was 20–30 min. Phaseolus vulgaris 2-cm root portions were incubated with NR for 10–30 min (pH 5·8). In each particular case, the staining time is indicated in the figure legends. For comparison, some material was stained with 1–10 μg ml–1propidium iodide (Sigma) for 10–30 min. Mycorrhizal roots were stained (0·4 μm NR) and examined according to Guttenberger (2000a). Plant material was mounted directly in the solution of NR or propidium iodide on a slide which was wrapped three times with two 1-mm-thick strips of parafilm 45 mm apart from one another and covered by a 24 × 50 mm coverslip (No. 1). When observations were done on an inverted microscope, after mounting, the coverslip was fixed in its position by another two thin strips of parafilm. At pH 7·5 NR has a wide excitation spectrum ranging from 450 to 550 nm (Zhang et al., 2004) and a wide emission spectrum with the maximum ranging from 550 to 650 nm (Chen et al., 1998). The reported emission spectra of NR include significant emission between 500 and 550 nm (green). In the current work, GFP-expressing transgenic lines were used. It is known that GFP emission peaks at 509 nm (Tsien and Wagooner, 1995), indicating that NR and GFP emissions overlap. This is why before observing tissues expressing GFP it was necessary to verify which tissues in non-transgenic material emit green fluorescence when NR is used. In wild-type Col-0 seedlings, neither Casparian bands and xylem nor vacuoles emitted significant green fluorescence. To avoid the possibility of cross-talk, the laser power was maintained at the level that kept green fluorescence from NR minimal or absent. In most cases this approach permitted NR and GFP emissions to be detected separately. The emission spectra of plant material stained with NR have not been reported. The Zeiss LSM 510 Meta microscope made it possible to acquire a series of images of the same object area each taken with different emission wavelengths in 10-nm steps. This stack is called a lambda stack (Dickinson et al., 2001). A lambda stack of various tissues and sub-cellular compartments (substrates) reacting with NR (4 μm diluted in 0·2× MS medium at pH 5·8; excitation at 488 nm) was acquired and fluorescence intensities plotted against wavelengths to obtain emission curves. Considering these spectra, NR and GFP were detected with the emission filters BP 565–615 and BP 500–530, respectively. Confocal images were acquired on an upright Leica TCS4D (Leica Lasertechnik Heidelberg, Germany) and an inverted Zeiss LSM 510 Meta (Carl Zeiss, Jena, Germany) microscopes. Leica ×25 (NA 0·75) oil immersion, Leica ×63 (NA 0·9) water immersion and Zeiss ×40 (NA 0·75, Plan Neofluar) dry and ×63 (NA1·2, C-Apochromat) water immersion objectives were used. With a Leica miscroscope, 564 and 488 nm lines of a Kr/Ar laser were used. With the Zeiss microscope, 543 nm line of a He/Ne laser and 488 nm of an Ar laser were used for NR and GFP excitation. To further decrease cross-talk and improve spectral separation during image acquisition of samples containing GFP and NR, commonly the sequential scan (time-separated data collection for each channel) was used, and different excitation wavelengths were employed (488 nm and 543 nm for GFP and NR, respectively). For transgenic lines, mutants and wild-type plants no autofluorescence was detected (Supplementary Information, Fig. SF1). Each single section represents an average of four scans. Some reported figures represent maximum intensity projections of a stack of confocal optical sections. To obtain a transverse section (a section in the x–z plane) a longitudinal optical section was acquired, the zone of interest was detected and a tracing line perpendicular to the root axis was set over the image. Then, with the Zeiss LSM 510 Meta microscope acquisition software, images along the tracing line of increasing depth of focus were taken and subsequently visualized at a 90° angle. At progressively deeper depth of focus, the fluorescence signal decreased progressively. This explains why transverse sections of the images were always brighter at the top and dim at the bottom. For image analysis, the Zeiss Image Examiner software, version 3·2 and Image J (National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD; http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/) were used.
