!~ABS~! Plants achieve remarkable plasticity in shoot system architecture by regulating the activity of secondary shoot meristems, laid down in the axil of each leaf. Axillary meristem activity, and hence shoot branching, is regulated by a network of interacting hormonal signals that move through the plant. Among these, auxin, moving down the plant in the main stem, indirectly inhibits axillary bud outgrowth, and an as yet undefined hormone, the synthesis of which in Arabidopsis requires MAX1, MAX3 , and MAX4, moves up the plant and also inhibits shoot branching. Since the axillary buds of max4 mutants are resistant to the inhibitory effects of apically supplied auxin, auxin and the MAX-dependent hormone must interact to inhibit branching.
!~RES~! Many mutants in the transcription-regulating auxin signaling pathway have shoot-branching defects and auxin-response defects in their buds, demonstrating that this pathway regulates bud outgrowth and apical dominance CITATION . Similarly, mutations in the MAX pathway genes result in increased branching, and max4 buds have been shown to be resistant to apical auxin CITATION . Where tested, none of these mutants (MAX or auxin-related) has altered levels or timing of axillary meristem formation, suggesting that they all act primarily at the stage of bud growth regulation CITATION . To investigate the relationship between these pathways in more detail, we analyzed branching in the axr1-12 mutant, which is deficient in auxin signaling, and max1 - max4 . We also constructed double mutants between axr1-12 and max1 - max4 to further this analysis. We used two assays to analyze bud activity, namely measurements of rosette branching in mature plants and the growth response of buds on excised nodes to apically supplied auxin. We found that branching from the rosette is markedly increased in both max and axr1-12 mutants, compared to wild-type (Col-0), with max mutants having higher levels of branching than axr1-12 plants ( CITATION A). The outgrowth response of buds on excised nodes to apically applied auxin was significantly greater in both axr1-12 and max1 - max4 than in the wild-type (Col-0), indicative of reduced auxin sensitivity ( CITATION B). However, axr1-12 buds were more resistant than max buds. Thus, while max plants have higher branching levels, axr1-12 buds show less inhibition of bud outgrowth by auxin. These data indicate that a proportion of the increased branching in the max mutants cannot be explained by a deficiency in AXR1-mediated signaling (i.e., is AXR1 independent), and likewise there is a proportion of the auxin resistance in axr1-12 buds that is not due to a deficiency in the MAX pathway (i.e., is MAX independent). Furthermore, when the double mutants were analyzed, both the number of rosette branches (ANOVA, in each case p < 0.01; CITATION A) and the degree of auxin resistance (ANOVA, in each case, p < 0.01; CITATION B) were found to be greater than those observed in either parent. Indeed, the axr1-12 and max phenotypes are substantially additive, with double mutant buds showing little or no auxin response at all. These results indicate that the MAX pathway and AXR1-mediated auxin signaling act largely independently in the regulation of shoot branching. Since the axr1 - 12 mutant is defective in a vast array of auxin responses CITATION , the discovery of an AXR1-independent auxin response is significant. Since previous reports have linked auxin transport and shoot branching CITATION , we investigated whether the MAX pathway might regulate auxin transport. Auxin is transported basipetally down the stem, and this transport is dependent on members of the PIN family of auxin efflux facilitators, which are basally localized in the cells of the xylem parenchyma and mediate directional movement of auxin down the stem CITATION . We analyzed bulk transport of radio-labeled auxin in max mutants, relative to wild-type. The apical ends of 15 mm excised stem segments were incubated in radiolabel for 18 hr, and the amount transported into the basal 5 mm was then measured (after CITATION ). The max mutants were found to have a marked increase in the ability to transport auxin relative to wild-type ( CITATION A). This assay is demonstrably NPA sensitive and therefore presumably measures only active transport ( CITATION A). To determine whether this result was due to change in the capacity for auxin transport or in the rate of auxin transport, we used a pulse-chase assay. Auxin was loaded into the apical ends of 25 mm max4-1 and wild-type stem segments for 1 hr. Radio-labeled auxin was then collected as it emerged from the basal ends of the stem segments in 30 min windows. Again, this assay is fully NPA sensitive (not shown), and so presumably measures active transport. The time course of emergence of the loaded auxin was very similar for max4-1 and wild-type, with a peak in emergence at around 3–3.5 hr, but for each time window more auxin emerged from the max4-1 stem than the wild-type ( CITATION B). This suggests that the main effect of the max4 mutation is on auxin transport capacity rather than transport rate. It should be noted that max mutant stems have wild-type anatomy ( CITATION J and CITATION A–4C), so for example, these increases in auxin transport do not arise from differences in the amount of vasculature between genotypes. If transport capacity is severely limiting in wild-type stems, then the increase in transport capacity in the max mutants might allow auxin to flow unimpeded down the stem, resulting in depletion of auxin in the node, reduced activity through the auxin signaling pathway, and thus increased bud outgrowth. To test this hypothesis, we examined activity of the auxin-responsive DR5 :: GUS promoter-reporter construct in the max mutants. This reporter is a generally reliable indicator of the activity of the AXR1 auxin signaling pathway and often reflects auxin levels CITATION . Directly contrary to the idea of reduced auxin signaling at the node, the max mutants have a large increase in DR5::GUS activity in the stem vasculature relative to wild-type, both in basal and apical nodes ( CITATION C–2J). These data are consistent with increased auxin levels throughout the transport stream, suggesting that the increased transport capacity in max mutant stems results in more auxin in transit through the stem at any one time. To investigate whether the increased auxin transport capacity is necessary for the branching phenotype of max mutants, we tested the effect of pharmacologically inhibiting auxin transport on the max phenotype, via the well-characterized inhibitor of auxin transport NPA (1- N -Naphthylphtalamic acid). We first confirmed that auxin transport in the max mutants is NPA sensitive (see CITATION in the CITATION available with this article online) and determined that concentrations in the order of 1 μM restore auxin transport to approximately wild-type levels ( CITATION A). We then tested the effect of this concentration of NPA on shoot branching and bud responses to apical auxin. Whole plants were treated with NPA by its addition to the agar-solidified medium of plants grown in sterile culture ( CITATION B). Increasing doses of NPA reduced shoot branching up to concentrations of 1 μM. At 2 μM, NPA treatment resulted in increased branching compared to 1 μM NPA. These results suggest that the increased auxin transport of the max mutants causes the increased branching phenotype, but that auxin transport levels below wild-type also promote branching. This latter observation corresponds well with classical data showing that inhibiting auxin transport in wild-type plants leads to bud outgrowth, because auxin is prevented from reaching the node CITATION , and also with the phenotype of the transport inhibitor response3 ( tir3 ) mutant, which has reduced auxin transport and increased branching CITATION . We have previously shown that treatment with 1 μM NPA leads to increased bud outgrowth in wild-type plants (which have less auxin transport to start with), which agrees with the long-established idea that too little auxin transport also leads to increased shoot branching CITATION . When we tested the effect of NPA on bud auxin response, we found that while low concentrations of NPA do not affect bud outgrowth at all, 1 μM NPA completely restores a wild-type auxin response to max buds ( CITATION C and 3D). NPA has no effect on max bud outgrowth in the absence of apical auxin ( CITATION C), suggesting that the effect of NPA is on auxin transport in the stem and not on the buds directly. This effect of NPA holds for all the max mutants ( CITATION D), but not axr1-12 , which does not have increased auxin transport ( CITATION A). These data confirm both the causal relationship between increased auxin transport capacity and the max branching phenotype and an independent mechanism of action of the MAX and AXR1 pathways. Since the family of PIN auxin transport facilitator proteins has been shown to mediate the amount and direction of polar auxin transport CITATION , we investigated whether they might be targets of the MAX pathway in the regulation of auxin transport. We examined localization of the well-characterized PIN1p::PIN1:GFP translational fusion construct CITATION in inflorescence stems of max mutants by confocal microscopy. PIN1:GFP protein levels were clearly elevated in the vascular bundles of max mutants compared to wild-type. Reporter protein levels were particularly stronger in the xylem tissue adjacent to the cambial region ( CITATION A–4C). In longitudinal sections of max1-1 stems, the majority of PIN1:GFP showed typical basal localization in xylem parenchyma cells; however, the amount of protein in the basal cell membrane was increased and a significant fraction was clearly not basally localized ( CITATION D and 4E). To test whether these changes in PIN1 levels are due to transcriptional upregulation, we used a PIN1p::GUS transcriptional fusion reporter construct. PIN1p::GUS activity was noticeably elevated in max1-1 inflorescence stems compared to wild-type ( CITATION F and 4G). We extended this analysis to other PIN genes via semiquantitative RT-PCR, and we found that levels of transcripts from PIN1 and 3 , and probably PIN4 and 6 , are increased, although PIN7 was downregulated in max mutants relative to wild-type ( CITATION J). To test whether this elevated level of PIN expression is causally related to the increased branching phenotype of the max mutants, we constructed pin1 max double mutants and found that they have significantly reduced branching relative to max single mutants, showing that PIN1 expression is important for the max phenotype ( CITATION I). Branching was not returned to completely wild-type levels in pin1 max double mutants, which we ascribe to the upregulation of other PIN proteins in the max mutant backgrounds ( CITATION J). Consistent with this, we found that there is greater residual auxin transport in pin1 max compared to pin1 (data not shown). The altered expression of the PIN genes is still observed in pin1 max double mutants ( CITATION J), suggesting that it is not a result of feedback from increased branching or auxin levels in the stem, but rather is a direct effect of lack of MAX signaling. Based on these data, we propose that the MAX pathway regulates branching by modulating auxin transport capacity through control of PIN transcript levels. Flavonoids are naturally occurring inhibitors of auxin transport CITATION . We found that, like NPA, the flavonoid naringenin is able to restore wild-type apical auxin responses to max mutant buds, although at much higher concentrations than NPA, consistent with its lower activity ( CITATION E). A role for flavonoids in shoot-branching control has previously been reported through the analysis of a flavonoid-deficient mutant. The transparent testa4 ( tt4 ) mutant lacks the enzyme chalcone synthase, and thus makes no flavonoids at all, resulting in a maternal effect, yellow seed phenotype CITATION . One allele of this mutant (2YY6) has been reported to confer a bushy phenotype CITATION , suggesting a link between auxin transport, flavonoids, and shoot branching. To investigate potential interactions between flavonoids and the max pathway, we attempted to construct double mutants between tt4 (2YY6) and max1 - max4 . However, during this process we found that the branching phenotype of tt4 (2YY6) results from a max4 mutation in tt4 (2YY6). To confirm this, a backcross between tt4 (2YY6) and Col-0 was performed, which in the F2 showed independent segregation of the pigment accumulation and branching phenotypes. The max4 allele from tt4 (2YY6) (denoted max4-5 ) was sequenced and found to contain a premature stop codon in the second exon (data not shown). These data demonstrate that tt4 does not confer a branching phenotype, which was confirmed with an independent allele ( tt4-1 ; in the Ler background), in addition to the one backcrossed out of the tt4 (2YY6) line (denoted tt4-2 ). Both alleles confer levels of branching not significantly different from wild-type and significantly less than tt4 (2YY6) (t test, p < 0.01; CITATION A). Since completely flavonoid-deficient plants have wild-type branching, flavonoids cannot be important to produce normal branching patterns. Furthermore, since the tt4-2 max4-5 double mutant is bushy, flavonoids are also not required for elaboration of the max phenotype. This raises questions about the link between increased auxin transport and increased branching observed in the max mutants, since tt4 mutants have been reported to have increased auxin transport and thus would be predicted to have increased branching. To address this question, we compared auxin transport in the stems of tt4-1 , tt4-2 , and the max mutants. We found modest but significant increases in auxin transport in tt4-1 (t test, p < 0.01), but no real difference from wild-type in tt4-2 (t test, p = 0.514) ( CITATION B). The effects of the tt4 mutants are therefore much smaller in the stem than the increases observed in the max mutants, and thus are likely not large enough to cause detectable branching phenotypes. It should be noted, however, that these data do not contradict previous reports showing larger increases in auxin transport in the seedlings of tt4 CITATION .
!~MM~! For growth on soil, Arabidopsis thaliana seeds were sown on Levington's F2 compost, at a density of one per 16 cm 2 . Seeds were cold treated for 3 days after sowing and then grown at 20°C/15°C in a 16 hr light/8 hr dark photoperiod, under a light intensity of ∼150 μmolm −2 s −1 . Branching measurements were made after cessation of primary meristem activity. Plants were grown under axenic conditions for bud hormone response assays and inhibitor studies. Seeds were sterilized in 10% (w/v) chlorine bleach and then washed with 70% (w/v) ethanol (×1) and sterile distilled water (×6). Seeds were then cold-treated for 3 days. Seeds were sown on Arabidopsis thaliana salts (ATS)-agar (1% sucrose, 0.8% agar) medium, described by Lincoln et al. CITATION . For inhibitor studies, appropriate concentrations of NPA or naringenin were added to the media. Plants were then grown under a 22°C/18°C 16 hr light/8 hr dark regime (90 μmolm −2 s −1 ). The following plants lines were previously described: max1-1 CITATION , max2-1 CITATION , max3-9 CITATION , max4-1 CITATION , axr1-12 CITATION , tt4 (2YY6) CITATION , tt4-1 CITATION , DR5::GUS CITATION , and PIN1p :: PIN1:GFP CITATION . Plant line SALK_047613 ( http://signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/tdnaexpress ) contains a T-DNA insertion in intron 3 of PIN1 (At1g73590). Plants homozygous for the insertion exhibit the typical pin-formed shoot phenotype and we renamed the line pin1-613 . No PIN1-specific signal was found in immunolocalization studies of pin1-613 roots, indicating that it represents a null allele (data not shown). To generate PIN1p::GUS, we amplified 2044 bp of PIN1 promoter sequence (−2051 to −7 relative to the start codon) from Col-O genomic DNA by using oligos 5′-GCAGGTCAATATAGATCATAAAGTG-3′ and 5′-TTCGCCGGAGAAGAGAGAGGGAA -3′. The resulting fragment was cloned into the pGEM-T (Promega, Madison, WI) and subsequently transferred into pPZPGUS.1 CITATION , to give pPIN1::GUS. Col-O plants were transformed with pPIN1::GUS. T2 progeny of several independent transformants were tested for GUS staining and a representative line containing a single transgene was brought to homozygosity and subsequently used for detailed analysis. The split plate assay was performed essentially as described in CITATION . Plants were grown in axenic conditions for 3 weeks, until bolting occurred. The first cauline nodal section was then excised and placed between two agar blocks in a Petri dish. Hormones etc. were added to either agar block to assess the effect on bud outgrowth. In this study, Naphthylacetic acid (NAA) (Sigma), 1- N -Naphthylphtalamic acid (NPA) (Riedel-de-Häen), and Naringenin (Sigma) were used in the indicated concentrations. The length of buds was assessed daily for 10 days. Two types of auxin transport assays were used, both of which were modifications of the protocol described by Okada et al. CITATION . In the first, the apical ends of 15 mm stem segments (all from the first cauline internode) were incubated for 18 hr (under constant light conditions) in 30 μL of 0.5× ATS medium (no sucrose), containing 1 μM 14 C labeled IAA (American Radiolabeled Chemicals, St Louis, MO). After this time, the basal 5 mm of the stem segment was excised, and the radiolabel was extracted by treatment with 80% (w/v) methanol for 48 hr. The amount of radiolabel was then quantified by scintillation in the presence of Microscint-40 (Perkin-Elmer). In the second assay, bundles of 10 (25 mm) stem segments were used to increase the signal-to-noise ratio. The apical end of the segments were incubated in 300 μL of 0.5× ATS buffer (no sucrose), containing 1 μM 14 C labeled IAA, for 1 hr. The basal ends of the segments were then incubated in 160 μL 2.5 mM diethyldithiocarbamate buffer for 30 or 40 min periods, after which they were successively transferred to fresh buffer for 30 or 40 min, seven more times. The radiolabel collected in each period was measured by scintillation in the presence of Microscint-40. Histochemical localization of GUS activity was determined via material from 4-week-old ( PIN1::GUS ) or 6-week-old ( DR5::GUS ) soil-grown plants. Tissue was placed in X-Gluc staining solution (0.5 mg/mL 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indoyl-β-D-glucuronide, 50 mM sodium phosphate [pH 7.0], 0.05% Triton-X-100, 0.1 mM K 4 Fe(CN) 6 , and 0.1 mM K 3 Fe(CN) 6 ), and incubated at 37°C for 16 hr. Tissue was then destained in 70% (w/v) ethanol. PIN1p::PIN1:GFP was crossed into max1-1 and max3-9 and doubly homozygous lines were used for analysis. Transverse and longitudinal hand sections were made from basal internodes of inflorescence stems (approximately 1 cm above the rosette) of 30-day-old plants. Longitudinal sections were generated by radial cuts through the center of a vascular bundle performed under a binocular microscope. Sections were mounted in water and GFP fluorescence was immediately inspected on a Zeiss Axiovert 200M-LSM 510 Meta confocal laser scanning microscope. For each genotype, 25–30 samples were examined. PolyA 2+ RNA was extracted from the base of inflorescence stems (basal 4 cm) of 30-day-old plants by using the QuickPick mRNA Micro kit (BIO-NOBILE, Turku, Finland) as recommended by the supplier. Extracted RNA was reverse transcribed with Superscript II (Invitrogen, Paisley, UK) according to the manufacturer's instructions. cDNAs were diluted 1:7 in water for subsequent semiquantitative RT-PCR under the following conditions: initial denaturation at 94°C for 3 min; cycle settings: denaturation for 30 s at 94°C, annealing for 30 s at 55°C, and extension for 45 s at 72°C. PCR with variable cycle numbers was performed and quantified on agarose gels, ensuring that reactions had not reached the plateau phase. UBIQUITIN5 and TUBULIN9 expression levels were used as normalization controls. Sequences of primers used in this study will be made available upon request.
