!~ABS~! HD2 proteins are plant-specific histone deacetylases. Little is known about the function of HD2 proteins in plants. In this paper, we report that an Arabidopsis HD2 protein, AtHD2C, is involved in abscisic acid and abiotic stress responses. Analysis of Arabidopsis plants containing the AtHD2C:β-glucuronidase fusion gene revealed that AtHD2C was constitutive expressed in plants. Furthermore, expression of AtHD2C was repressed by abscisic acid. Over-expression of 35S:AtHD2C-GFP in transgenic Arabidopsis plants conferred an abscisic acid-insensitive phenotype. In addition, 35S:AtHD2C-GFP transgenic plants displayed reduced transpiration and enhanced tolerance to salt and drought stresses when compared with wild-type plants. The expression of several abscisic acid-responsive genes was affected in the 35S:AtHD2C-GFP plants. Our study provides evidence indicating that AtHD2C can modulate abscisic acid and stress responses.
!~RES~! To investigate the function of AtHD2C, the coding sequence of AtHD2C was fused in-frame with the GFP reporter gene driven by the CaMV 35S promoter in the binary vector pCAMBIA1302 (Figure 1a). The construct was used to transform Arabidopsis plants. Four independent transgenic lines were assayed for the presence and expression of the transgenes (Figure 1). Two transgenic lines with high expression of AtHD2C-GFP (AtHD2C-1 and AtHD2C-2) were selected for further studies. To investigate the subcellular localization of AtHD2C-GFP, protoplasts were isolated from seedlings of transgenic Arabidopsis and localization of the fusion protein was determined by fluorescence microscope. As shown in Figure 1(d), AtHD2C-GFP was localized in the nucleus of the Arabidopsis cells. However, AtHD2C was not diffusely distributed in the nucleoplasm but localized to a much smaller area, suggesting nucleolus localization. This result is consistent with previous observations that AtHD2A and AtHD2B are localized in nucleoli (CITATION; CITATION). In comparison, GFP alone was uniformly distributed throughout the cell (Figure 1d). [[FIGURE]] Compared to wild-type seeds, AtHD2C-1 and AtHD2C-2 seeds germinated earlier (Figure 2a). To test ABA sensitivity of AtHD2C-GFP plants, seeds were incubated for germination on a medium with 0.1 μm of ABA. As shown in Figure 2(b), 0.1 μm ABA caused a 63% decrease in the germination rate of the wild-type seeds, whereas there was only a 28% decrease in the germination rate of the two 35S:AtHD2C-GFP transgenic lines. AtHD2C-GFP seeds therefore displayed decreased sensitivity to ABA. When the wild-type seeds were germinated at 0.1 μm ABA, there was growth arrest with inhibition of cotyledon formation and further development subsequent to seed-coat breakage and radicle emergence. On the other hand, the 35S:AtHD2C-GFP transgenic seeds were able to germinate and successfully develop healthy cotyledons and true leaves at 0.1 μm ABA. As shown in Figure 2(c), 0.05 μm ABA was able to inhibit root growth in wild-type seedlings by 70%. In comparison, the root growth of 35S:AtHD2C-GFP transgenic seedlings was not affected at 0.05 μm ABA. [[FIGURE]] There is substantial evidence for cross-talk between signaling pathways regulating response to ABA and assorted stresses (e.g. drought, salinity and cold) (CITATION; CITATION). It has been shown that ABA-deficient (aba) and ABA-insensitive (abi) mutants tend to exhibit salt insensitivity during germination (CITATION). Therefore, we tested the salt sensitivity of the 35S:AtHD2C-GFP plants. At 100 mm NaCl, the germination rate of the wild-type was 46%, whereas the germination rates of AtHD2C-1 and AtHD2C-2 were 89% and 86%, respectively (Figure 3a). Additionally, the 35S:AtHD2C-GFP over-expression lines demonstrated decreased sensitivity to the inhibition of root growth by NaCl (Figure 3b). At 100 mm NaCl, wild-type root growth was only 52% of its control rate, whereas those of the two 35S:AtHD2C-GFP lines were 87% of the control rates. [[FIGURE]] Mannitol accumulation increases when plants are exposed to drought stress, and mannitol has been used to assess the response of plants to osmotic stress (CITATION). At 250 mm mannitol, the germination rate was reduced by 52% in the wild-type, whereas those of the AtHD2C-1 and AtHD2C-2 lines were reduced by only 20% (Figure 4a). Additionally, the 35S:AtHD2C-GFP over-expression lines demonstrated decreased sensitivity to the inhibition of root growth by mannitol (Figure 4b). At 250 mm mannitol, wild-type root growth was only 33% of its control rate, whereas those of two 35S:AtHD2C lines were about 82% of the control rates. [[FIGURE]] Apart from its critical function in maintaining seed dormancy, regulating germination and seedling growth, ABA helps optimize vegetative growth during environmental stress conditions by maintaining osmotic homeostasis. At the cellular level, ABA is known to promote tolerance to abiotic stresses such as cold, drought and salinity (CITATION; CITATION). We investigated the response of 35S:AtHD2C-GFP transgenic plants to abiotic stresses by exposing them to salt and drought stresses. At 20-days old, plants were supplemented with 300 mm NaCl for 25 days, and the leaf survival rates were measured as the percentages of green leaves left after treatment. On the 5th day after treatment, only 63% of the wild-type leaves were green, whereas 90% of AtHD2C-1 and AtHD2C-2 leaves were green (Figure 5a). On the 20th day after treatment, about 60% of AtHD2C-1 and AtHD2C-2 leaves survived, whereas the survival rate of the wild-type was just 5%. [[FIGURE]] We further examined the ability of the 35S:AtHD2C transgenic plants to survive in the environment of water deficit. At 22 days old, wild-type and transgenic plants grown in pots were left without watering for up to 25 days. As shown in Figure 5(b), the survival rate of the wild-type dropped to 44% on the 10th day, whereas the survival rate of the two transgenic lines was 85%. On the 15th day, only 7% of the wild-type leaves survived, whereas 46% of AtHD2C-1 and AtHD2C-2 leaves were alive. We also measured the fresh weight loss of the wild-type and transgenic plants. As shown in Figure 5(c), AtHD2C-1 and AtHD2C-2 plants show a decreased decline in fresh weights compared with the wild-type plants when exposed to drought. Additionally, the stomatal aperture was investigated in the wild-type and transgenic plants. Under normal growth conditions, 83% (75 of 90) of the wild-type stomata were open, whereas 35 and 42% of them were open in AtHD2C-1 (28 of 80) and AtHD2C-2 (29 of 69) plants when observed in the middle of the watering period. Thus, over-expression of AtHD2C resulted in partial stomatal closure, reduced transpiration and enhanced drought tolerance. Most of the genes that respond to dehydration, salinity and low temperature are inducible by ABA (CITATION; CITATION). Many genes that respond to ABA are also expressed at the late stages of embryogenesis during the development of seeds and are thought to function in the protection of cell dehydration. Therefore, we checked the expression of LEA class genes RD29B and RAB18, which function during the late phase of seed maturation to confer desiccation tolerance to the seed and are known to accumulate during dehydration stress in the vegetative stage (CITATION; CITATION). As shown in Figure 6, up-regulation of RD29B and RAB18 was observed in 35S:AtHD2C-GFP transgenic plants. [[FIGURE]] Genetic studies have established that ABI2 is a regulator of ABA transduction signals (CITATION). The increases of ABI2 mRNA level and corresponding protein phosphatase activity induced by ABA have led to a model in which ABI2 takes part in a negative feedback regulatory loop that continuously resets the ABA signaling cascade to adjust the response to the ABA level (CITATION). ABI2 is positioned upstream of Ca2+-induced S-type anion channel activation whereby K+ efflux is initiated in the guard cells leading to stomatal closure. The ABI2 transcript level was severely reduced in 35S:AtHD2C-GFP transgenic plants (Figure 6). This led us to examine the expression of a ABI2-inducible gene, ADH1, as CITATION demonstrated a reduction in ADH1 expression in abi2 mutants. Accordingly, we observed a down-regulation of ADH1 in 35S:AtHD2C-GFP transgenic lines (Figure 6). KAT1 and KAT2 are K+-inward rectifying channels that are regulated by their phosphorylation status and are inhibited by ABA production during dehydration stress (CITATION; CITATION). This mediates the closing of stomata due to turgor loss and membrane depolarization, which permits retention of water. We found that the expression of both KAT1 and KAT2 was reduced in 35S:AtHD2C-GFP transgenic plants (Figure 6). Xylem K+ content is regulated by the activity of a stelar K+ outward rectifier (SKOR) (CITATION), which is repressed by ABA. Repression of SKOR expression has been suggested to be part of the adaptive water stress response mediated by ABA. Expression of SKOR was also reduced in 35S:AtHD2C-GFP transgenic plants (Figure 6). In summary, our analysis indicates that over-expression of AtHD2C resulted in the modulation of ABA/stress-responsive gene expression. To further investigate the expression pattern of AtHD2C, a 1.4 kb AtHD2C promoter fragment was used to construct a β-glucuronidase reporter gene fusion (AtHD2C:GUS) for stable transformation of Arabidopsis. AtHD2C:GUS was expressed in all tissues examined, including seedlings, mature rosette leaves, stems, flowers and seeds (Figure 7a). This result is consistent with our previous RT-PCR analysis data (CITATION). We further investigated whether ABA can affect the expression of AtHD2C:GUS by treating seedlings with ABA. Our analysis indicated that AtHD2C:GUS expression was reduced after ABA treatment (Figure 7a,b). We also analyzed the transcript accumulation of AtHD2C in response to ABA (100 μm) treatment by RT-PCR. As shown in Figure 7(c), the AtHD2C transcript was partially reduced in the seedlings treated with ABA. The modulation of AtHD2C expression by ABA supports the idea that AtHD2C is involved in the ABA response. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! To generate the AtHD2C:GUS construct, a 1.4 kb promoter of AtHD2C was PCR-amplified using the primer pair, 5′-cgttgaattcctcttttgtcctcctt-3′ and 5′-aattaagcttgtgcgaggtagtgtgatc-3′. The resulting PCR product was digested by EcoRI and HindIII and subcloned into the pCAMBIA1381 binary vector (Cambia, Canberra, Australia). To construct the 35S:AtHD2C-GFP plasmid, we subcloned AtHD2C cDNA fused in-frame with GFP in the pCAMBIA1302 vector. Pfu polymerase (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA, USA) was used in the PCR reaction to minimize undesired mutations in the sequences. DNA sequence analysis was carried out using BLAST searches (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/BLAST/) and the Vector NTI Suite program (InforMax Inc., Bethesda, MD, USA). Total genomic DNA from Arabidopsis was extracted using Plant DNAzol reagent (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA). Total RNA was isolated from Arabidopsis using Trizol reagent (Invitrogen) as described by the manufacturer. One microgram of total RNA was used for the first-strand cDNA synthesis after incubation at 65°C for 10 min. cDNA was synthesized in a volume of 20 μl that contained MoMLV reverse transcriptase buffer (Promega, Madison, WI, USA), 10 mm dithiothreitol, 1.5 μm poly(dT) primer, 0.5 mm dNTPs, and 2 units of MoMLV reverse transcriptase at 37°C for 1 h. All PCR reactions were performed with 0.5 units of Taq polymerase (New England Biolabs, Ipswich, MA, USA), the buffer provided by the supplier, 0.2 mm dNTPs, and a pair of primers (0.1 μm each) in a final volume of 20 μl. PCR reaction parameters differed for each gene: thermocycling conditions were 94°C for 2 min followed by 25–40 cycles of 94°C for 1 min, 55–65°C for 1 min, and 72°C for 1–2 min, with a final polymerization step at 72°C for 10 min. The gene-specific primer pairs used for the RT-PCR are: AtHD2C, 5′-atggagttctggggtgttgaag-3′ (pr1) and 5′-tcaagcagctgcactgtgtttg-3′ (pr2); AtHD2C-GFP, 5′-atggagttctggggtgttgaag-3′ (pr1) and 5′-acacgtggtggtggtggtg-3′ (pr3); ABI2, 5′-caagatccattggcgatagatacc-3′ and 5′-cctcttttctccgccggaag-3′; ADH1, 5′-tccacgtatcttcggccatg-3′ and 5′-tagcaccttctgcagcgcc-3′; KAT1, 5′-cttcatgaaacttagagggcaac-3′ and 5′-ccactttggctctctctatc-3′; KAT2, 5′-aggttgctctgatgcagatc-3′ and 5′-ccgcattcgtgacctttgtg-3′; RD29B, 5′- gataccttccgaccagatagc-3′ and 5′-cgaaaaccccatagtcccaac-3′; RAB18, 5′- cagctctagctcggaggatg-3′ and 5′-ccgggaagcttttccttgatc-3′; SKOR, 5′-gtggctccaaagagcctaaag-3′ and 5′-acacaagaagcctccggaac-3′; UBQ, 5′-gatctttgccggaaaacaattggaggatggt-3′ and 5′-cgacttgtcattagaaagaaagagataacagg-3′. Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Columbia) was grown in a growth chamber (16 h light, 8 h darkness at 22°C) after a 2–4 day stratification period. For growth under sterile conditions, seeds were surface-sterilized (15 min incubation in 5% v/v sodium hypochlorite, and rinsed three times with sterile distilled water) and sown on a half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium (Sigma-Aldrich, Lenexa, KS, USA), supplemented with 1% sucrose, pH 5.7, and 0.8% w/v agar in Petri dishes. To test ABA, NaCl and mannitol responses, surface-sterilized seeds were planted in MS medium with different concentration of ABA, NaCl and mannitol, and root lengths were measured after 5 days. For salt and drought treatment, 20-day-old soil-grown plants were supplemented with 300 mm NaCl or withheld completely from water for the specified times. To examine guard cells, leaves were excised from 3-week-old soil-grown plants in the middle of the watering (3 days after watering) and light periods. Leaves of similar developmental stages (3–6 true rosette leaves) from different plants of wild-type and transgenic lines were placed on slides abaxial side up immediately after excision, and the number of guard cells was then counted in randomly chosen fields, usually six or seven. Plant transformation plasmids were electroporated into Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101. The Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of A. thaliana was performed as described previously (CITATION). T1 seeds were harvested, dried at 25°C, and germinated on sterile medium containing 40 μg ml−1 kanamycin or hygromycin to select the transformants. Surviving T1 plantlets were transferred to soil to set seeds (T2). Transgenic tissues expressing AtHD2C:GUS were immersed in 1 mm 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-glucuronic acid solution in 100 mm sodium phosphate (pH 7.0) with 0.1 mm EDTA, 0.5 mm ferricyanide, 0.5 mm ferrocyanide and 0.1% Triton X-100, and incubated at 37°C overnight, followed by washing with 70% ethanol to remove the chlorophyll (CITATION). For fluorometric GUS assays, 50 μl of the crude extract from seedlings was incubated at 37°C with 1 mm 4-methylumbelliferyl glucuronide in 0.3 ml of GUS assay buffer (50 mm NaPO4, pH 7.0, 10 mm EDTA, 0.1% v/v Triton X-100, 10 mmβ-mercaptoethanol). After 0, 0.5, 1 and 2 h of incubation, 0.1 ml aliquots were removed and added to 1.9 ml of 0.2 m Na2CO3 to terminate the reaction. GUS activity was expressed as pmol 4-methylumbelliferone/mg protein/min.
