!~ABS~! Trafficking of secretory proteins between the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and the Golgi apparatus depends on coat protein complexes I (COPI) and II (COPII) machineries. To date, full characterization of the distribution and dynamics of these machineries in plant cells remains elusive. Furthermore, except for a presumed linkage between COPI and COPII for the maintenance of ER protein export, the mechanisms by which COPI influences COPII-mediated protein transport from the ER in plant cells are largely uncharacterized. Here we dissect the dynamics of COPI in intact cells using live-cell imaging and fluorescence recovery after photobleaching analyses to provide insights into the distribution of COPI and COPII machineries and the mechanisms by which COPI influences COPII-mediated protein export from the ER. We found that Arf1 and coatomer are dynamically associated with the Golgi apparatus and that the COPII coat proteins Sec24 and Sec23 localize at ER export sites that track with the Golgi apparatus in tobacco leaf epidermal cells. Arf1 is also localized at additional structures that originate from the Golgi apparatus but that lack coatomer, supporting the model that Arf1 also has a coatomer-independent role for post-Golgi protein transport in plants. When ER to Golgi protein transport is inhibited by mutations that hamper Arf1-GTPase activity without directly disrupting the COPII machinery for ER protein export, Golgi markers are localized in the ER and the punctate distribution of Sec24 and Sec23 at the ER export sites is lost. These findings suggest that Golgi membrane protein distribution is maintained by the balanced action of COPI and COPII systems, and that Arf1-coatomer is most likely indirectly required for forward trafficking out of the ER due to its role in recycling components that are essential for differentiation of the ER export domains formed by the Sar1-COPII system.
!~RES~! To determine the distribution of Arf1 in tobacco leaf epidermal cells, a green fluorescent fusion (GFP) of an Arabidopsis Arf1 (CITATION; Arf1-GFP) was used for confocal microscopy analysis. Arf1-GFP was distributed on punctate structures of heterogeneous size (≤1 μm in diameter; Figure 1a,b). The larger Arf1-GFP structures corresponded to Golgi bodies (Figure 1a), as shown by co-expression experiments with a yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) fusion to the Golgi marker ERD2 (ERD2-YFP; CITATION). To establish the origin of the smaller Arf1-labelled structures, we monitored the distribution of Arf1 with respect to the Golgi apparatus over time in cells co-expressing Arf1-GFP and ERD2-YFP. We observed that small Arf1-structures formed on a Golgi stack and eventually detached from it (Figure 1b and Supplementary data 1). [[FIGURE]] Our localization data support additional roles of Arf1 besides regulation of COPI assembly (CITATION). To provide further evidence for this, we investigated whether coatomer was distributed on the non-Golgi structures labelled by Arf1. Co-expression experiments using either ERD2-GFP or Arf1-GFP with a YFP fusion to an Arabidopsis ɛCOP (ɛCOP-YFP), a component of the COPI coatomer (CITATION), demonstrated that coatomer co-localized with the Golgi marker (Figure 2a) but not with the additional Arf1-GFP structures (Figure 2b). This suggests that COPI coatomer components only appear to play a role in intra-Golgi and Golgi to ER transport, although Arf1 may have additional roles besides COPI assembly at the Golgi apparatus. [[FIGURE]] To provide evidence of a dynamic cycle of COPI on and off the Golgi membranes in living plant cells and to correlate the residence time of COPI on Golgi membranes with the exchange of protein cargo between the ER and Golgi apparatus, we used fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP) analysis on fluorescent fusions of ɛCOP, Arf1 or ERD2 expressed in tobacco leaves. FRAP allows measurement of the rate of movement of a fluorescent marker towards and from defined areas of a cell. A significant fluorescence recovery indicates that the bleached molecules are exchanging with fluorescent pools of the protein localized in other parts of the cell, assuming that chimaeric protein levels in the bleached area had reached a steady state at the start of each experiment (CITATION). By photobleaching ɛCOP-YFP fluorescence, we calculated that coatomer associates and dissociates from Golgi membranes with a half time of 20.7 ± 3.0 sec (Figure 3a,b). Photobleaching of Arf1-GFP fluorescence on the Golgi bodies (Figure 3a) was followed by a rapid fluorescence recovery (half time = 12.1 ± 2.1 sec; Figure 3a,b), which was significantly faster than that of ɛCOP-YFP (P < 0.05). FRAP experiments on Golgi bodies labelled with ERD2-YFP (Figure 3a), which is known to distribute all over the Golgi stack (CITATION), indicated a half-time recovery of fluorescence of 123.0 ± 14.8 sec (Figure 3b), much slower than the half-time values measured for coatomer and Arf1. [[FIGURE]] These data show that not only does a Golgi membrane protein move to and from the Golgi apparatus, as described earlier and for other Golgi proteins, such as ST-GFP and GONST1-GFP (CITATION; CITATION), but also reveal that cytosolic COPI components exchange continuously at the surface of the Golgi apparatus, providing evidence for constant remodelling of the membranous and soluble components of this organelle. To analyze in vivo whether interference with the normal cycling of Arf1 on and off Golgi membranes would influence Golgi membrane protein distribution, we examined the effects of active and inactive forms of Arf1 on the distribution of a fluorescent fusion of ERD2, which is exported from the ER by COPII carriers and cycles continuously between ER and Golgi at the same rate as other Golgi membrane markers (CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, we co-expressed this marker with either wild-type Arf1 or Arf1 sequences bearing point mutations that create dominant negative mutants of the GTPase by enhancing its affinity for either GDP or GTP [T31N or Q71L, respectively (CITATION)]. To identify cells expressing untagged Arf1 or its mutant forms, we subcloned their coding sequences in a bi-cistronic vector encoding a cyan fluorescent protein (CFP) spliced to the tripeptide serine-lysine-leucine (CFP-SKL) for targeting to peroxisomes (CITATION; see also Supplementary data 2). We then co-transformed tobacco leaf epidermal cells with these bi-cistronic vectors and with a plasmid encoding ERD2-YFP. To produce comparable results, we used the same optical density of Agrobacterium containing the different constructs for tobacco leaf transient transformation, and we analyzed samples by confocal microscopy at the same time after transformation. In the presence of wild-type Arf1, we observed a typical punctate distribution of the ERD2-YFP (Figure 4a; cf. Figure 1), in agreement with reports that over-expression of Arf1 does not affect the distribution of Golgi markers (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), and has no effect on protein secretion (CITATION). Co-expression of Arf1GDP with ERD2-YFP caused re-absorbance of the Golgi marker into the ER in the majority (95%) of cells co-expressing the mutant and ERD2-YFP (Figure 4a). However, the fluorescence of the marker was mostly distributed in the Golgi in the majority of cells co-expressing Arf1GTP and ERD2-YFP (85% of the cells co-expressing the mutant and the Golgi marker; Figure 4a). The ER membranes appeared enlarged in those cells where Golgi membranes were re-absorbed into the ER in comparison to control cells. This is probably due to accumulation of a Golgi pool of fluorescent ERD2 whose export is inhibited by the mutants (see also CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To determine whether Arf1 mutants could have a similar effect on other Golgi markers, we co-expressed wild-type Arf1 and its mutants with YFP fusions of either a rat sialyl-transferase transmembrane domain (ST-YFP; CITATION) or an Arabidopsis β1,2-xylosyltransferase cytosolic tail and transmembrane domain (CITATION; Xylo-YFP). Under these conditions, we verified that the effect of Arf1 mutants on the distribution of these proteins is similar to that of ERD2-YFP (Supplementary data 3). These data show that disruption of the COPI machinery at the Golgi apparatus mediated by Arf1 mutants is followed by collapse of the Golgi membranes into the ER. As the Golgi markers used in these experiments cycle continuously in and out of the Golgi apparatus, most likely from and to the ER (CITATION; CITATION), the redistribution of the Golgi markers into the ER suggests an interruption of protein exchange between the ER and the Golgi apparatus. To confirm further that Arf1GDP has a stronger negative effect on protein export from the ER than does Arf1GTP, we co-transfected tobacco leaf protoplasts with the secretory marker α-amylase (CITATION) and a dilution series of untagged Arf1, and Arf1GDP or Arf1GTP mutants. Arf1 did not affect α-amylase secretion (Figure 4b), but the Arf1GDP and Arf1GTP mutants exhibited a negative effect on the secretion of α-amylase (see also CITATION). Arf1GDP exhibited a stronger effect than Arf1GTP on secretion of the soluble marker. These data mirror our microscopy results showing that Arf1GDP affected the ER export of a Golgi marker more strongly than Arf1GTP under the same experimental conditions, and suggest that the two mutants may block ER export by different means. To determine whether the Arf1 mutants perturbed the distribution of membrane proteins at the Golgi apparatus with different mechanisms, we first aimed to determine the subcellular localizations of their fluorescent protein fusions by confocal microscopy (Figure 5). The activity of these proteins was also tested by a biochemical assay (Supplementary data 4). [[FIGURE]] GFP fusions of the inactive and active mutants of Arf1 (Arf1GDP-GFP and Arf1GTP-GFP, respectively) were expressed in tobacco leaf epidermal cells using the same Agrobacterium optical density and confocal microscope imaging settings to compare the levels of expression between cells (see also Experimental procedures). We hypothesized that Arf1GDP should be localized in the cytosol, as although it should be able to bind to membranes via its interaction with a guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF), its inability to exchange GDP for GTP would be followed by fast release from the membranes into the cytosol, causing its association with Golgi membranes to be undetectable. Consistent with our hypothesis, permanently inactive Arf1 (Arf1GDP-GFP) was localized in the cytosol (Figure 5a) at any level of expression (see also CITATION). The GTP-trapped mutant was instead distributed to punctate structures in most cells (Figure 5b), corresponding well with observations by CITATION. To determine the identity of the structures highlighted by Arf1GTP-GFP, we co-expressed the fusion with ERD2-YFP. We found that Arf1GTP-GFP mostly co-localized with the Golgi marker but also highlighted additional structures (Figure 6a, inset in merged image, arrowhead), which coincided with those marked by wild-type Arf1-YFP (data not shown). We also detected a cytosolic distribution of Arf1GTP-GFP in those cells that were over-expressing the mutant (Figures 5c and 6b). In these cells, ERD2-YFP was distributed in the ER (Figure 6b). [[FIGURE]] These data suggest that the Arf1 mutants may affect COPI distribution via different mechanisms. In fact, the cytosolic distribution of Arf1GDP indicates that this mutant is not able to initiate the assembly of COPI machinery at the Golgi membranes. Golgi-associated Arf1GTP may be capable of initiating the assembly of COPI machinery on the Golgi. To explore these hypotheses further, we co-expressed untagged Arf1GDP with either Arf1-YFP or ɛCOP-YFP. This caused a cytosolic distribution of both markers (Figure 7b,d), in comparison with the controls (Figure 7a,c; see also Supplementary data 5). These results suggest that Arf1-GDP most likely titrates out any Arf1-GEFs needed for the activation of wild-type Arf1 at the Golgi apparatus, and consequently impedes the association of coatomer to the Golgi membranes. In the presence of Arf1GTP bound mutant, coatomer was capable of cycling on and off Golgi membranes (Supplementary data 6). This result prompted us to test the extent to which protein exchange between ER and Golgi could be affected by this mutant. Therefore, we performed FRAP analysis on Golgi membranes labelled by ERD2-YFP. As this marker cycles between the ER and Golgi apparatus (CITATION), a difference in the recovery of fluorescence of ERD2 in the Golgi apparatus in comparison to a control would indicate that the Arf1GTP mutant may affect protein cycling between the ER and the Golgi apparatus. Photobleaching of ERD2-YFP fluorescence in the presence of the mutant was followed by recovery (half-time = 204.3 ± 40.6 sec; Figure 8b,c), indicating that ER to Golgi protein transport was occurring. However, comparison with the recovery rate of the fluorescence of the same Golgi marker in control cells (half-time = 123.0 ± 14.8 sec; Figures 3 and 8a,c) indicated that the mutant significantly reduced the recovery of fluorescence of ERD2-YFP into the Golgi apparatus. Therefore, constitutive activation of Arf1 on Golgi membranes most likely retards protein cargo exchange at the ER/Golgi interface. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The slower recovery of ERD2-YFP fluorescence at the Golgi apparatus suggested that GTPase activity of the Arf1GTP mutant was not entirely abolished. To test this, we bleached the fluorescence of Arf1GTP-GFP on Golgi stacks. Upon photobleaching Arf1GTP-GFP, the fluorescence recovered with a half-time of 35.7 ± 3.4 sec (n = 11), which is threefold slower than the Arf1-GFP half-time (12.1 ± 2.1 sec, n = 12, see Figure 3a,b) in accordance with results in mammalian cells and in vitro (CITATION; CITATION). Taken together, our results indicate that inactive Arf1 prevents COPI formation at the Golgi apparatus while the active Arf1 mutant allows COPI formation and COPI-mediated protein transport with a reduced activity in comparison with wild-type Arf1. We next aimed to test whether impaired COPI activity affects the integrity of the ER export machinery. For this, we used a YFP fusion of an Arabidopsis Sec24, a COPII coat component (YFP-Sec24), to label the ERES. To ensure that fluorescent Sec24 retained its functionality, we tested its ability to interact with another COPII coat component Sec23 and form a heterodimeric complex (CITATION) in a glutathione–agarose affinity chromatography assay based on the interaction of a recombinant GST-Sec23 with plant-expressed YFP-Sec24 (Figure 9). YFP-Sec24 was found to interact with GST-Sec23 (Figure 9, lane 5) but not with GST alone (Figure 9, lane 3). Therefore, YFP-Sec24 is a functional marker capable of interacting with Sec23 as shown in mammalian cells (CITATION). At a subcellular level, YFP-Sec24 was localized at punctate structures (Figure 10a, arrowhead) and in the cytosol (Figure 10a). Co-expression experiments using YFP-Sec24 with ERD2-GFP indicated that these structures localized at the peri-Golgi area, with the exception of additional rare bright YFP-Sec24 structures of variable size that did not localize at the peri-Golgi area (6.7% of YFP-Sec24-labelled structures; Figure 10b–d). We also verified that the YFP-Sec24-labelled ERES tracked together with Golgi stacks (Figure 10e–g; see also Supplementary data 7a–c). Furthermore, the expression of a Golgi marker did not appear to be necessary for the movement of YFP-Sec24 punctate structures as these were motile in cells expressing the Sec24 construct alone (Supplementary data 7d). Similar results were achieved with a fluorescent fusion of another COPII component, Sec23 (YFP-Sec23; Supplementary data 7d and 8, and data not shown), although the percentage of Sec23 structures that did not co-localize was lower than that of Sec24 (3.7%). These data reveal that in tobacco leaf epidermal cells COPII markers can label ERES without over-expression of Golgi marker proteins, and support previous findings that ERES are in close association with the Golgi stacks (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To explore the influence of COPI machinery on the differentiation of ERES, we co-expressed YFP-Sec24 with fluorescent fusions of wild-type and mutant Arf1 proteins. In the presence of Arf1-GFP, YFP-Sec24 was distributed at the peri-Golgi area but not at the additional smaller structures labelled by Arf1-GFP (Figure 11a, inset arrowhead). However, YFP-Sec24 was distributed into the cytosol in co-expression with Arf1GDP-GFP (Figure 11b). In the presence of the active Arf1 mutant, the punctate appearance of the ERES at the Golgi area labelled by YFP-Sec24 was maintained in most cells (Figure 11c). In cells that were highly over-expressing Arf1GTP-GFP, YFP-Sec24 fluorescence was distributed in the cytosol (Figure 11d). Similar results were obtained with the other COPII marker, YFP-Sec23 (Supplementary data 8). These data indicate that collapse of COPI-mediated protein transport perturbs differentiation of ER export sites and distribution of membrane proteins at the Golgi apparatus. Taken together, our findings also suggest that ERES maintain their integrity as long as COPI-mediated protein transport takes place. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Standard molecular techniques were used for subcloning. The fluorescent proteins used in this study were based on fusions with either mGFP5 (CITATION), ECFP or EYFP (Clontech Inc., Palo Alto, CA, USA). The spectral properties of mGFP5 allow efficient spectral separation from YFP (CITATION). As a Golgi marker, we used the H/KDEL receptor (ERD2, CITATION) fused to GFP (CITATION) or YFP (CITATION), ST-YFP (CITATION) and Xylo-YFP. For the Xylo-YFP construct, the DNA sequence encompassing the cytoplasmic tail and transmembrane region of an Arabidopsis β1,2-xylosyltransferase (DNA kindly provided by H. Steinkellner, Zentrum für Angewandte Genetik, Universität für Bodenkultur Wien, Austria) that have been shown to target the Golgi apparatus in Nicotiana benthamiana as a GFP fusion (CITATION) was amplified by PCR and subcloned into pVKH18En6 upstream of a YFP sequence using XbaI and SalI sites of the binary vector. For coatomer labelling, we generated a YFP fusion with the Arabidopsis homologue of ɛCOP, a component of the COPI coatomer (CITATION). The coding sequence for ɛCOP (Genbank accession number AF370325) was obtained from RIKEN and amplified by PCR with primers containing the XbaI and SalI sites for subcloning upstream of YFP in the binary vector pVKH18-En6. To generate fluorescent fusions of Arf1 proteins (CITATION), we used the DNA of the GTPases kindly provided by J. Denecke (University of Leeds, Leeds, UK) and spliced it upstream of a fluorescent protein sequence in the binary vector pVKH18-En6 with the XbaI and SalI sites. For labelling of ER export sites, the Arabidopsis homologues of Sec24 (locus At3g07100) and Sec23 (locus At3g23660) were obtained as ABRC clones and fused to the N-terminus of a YFP using the BamHI and SacI sites of the binary vector pVKH18-En6. For Agrobacterium tumefaciens transient expression of untagged Arabidopsis Arf1 and its GDP and GTP restricted mutants (CITATION), we used a modified binary vector pVKH18-En6 bearing two 35S-pNOS reading cassettes in direct orientation (see also Supplementary material 2). In one cassette we subcloned the DNA coding sequence of the proteins within the unique XbaI and SacI sites, and in the other cassette we subcloned a CFP-SKL fusion to ensure visualization of peroxisomes. The primer sequences used for the subcloning indicated above are available upon request. For α-amylase experiments, plasmids bearing the sequences encoding the wild-type Arf1, Arf1GDP and GTP mutants described in CITATION were used. Four-week-old Nicotiana tabacum (cv. Petit Havana) greenhouse plants grown at 25°C were used for Agrobacterium tumefaciens (strain GV3101)-mediated transient expression (CITATION). The bacterial optical density (OD600) used for plant transformation was 0.02–0.05 for tagged and untagged versions of Arf1 and its mutants, and 0.2 for ERD2-, ST- and Xylo-constructs. For transient expression in protoplasts, Nicotiana tabacum plants (cv. Petit Havana) were grown in Murashige and Skoog medium and 2% sucrose in a controlled room at 25°C with a 16 h light/8 h dark regime at a light irradiance of 200 mE m−2 sec−1. Tobacco leaf protoplast preparation and subsequent DNA transfection via electroporation were performed as described by CITATION, and the plasmid concentrations used are given in Figure 4(b). For these experiments we used untagged Arf1 proteins subcloned in expression vectors described by CITATION and tagged Arf1 proteins (Supplementary data 4) that were subcloned into the binary vector pVKH18-En6. After incubation for 24 h in the dark, the protoplast suspension was spun for 5 min at 100 g in a swing-out centrifuge (4K15; Sigma, Oakville, Canada), which results in the floating of the cells. Using an extra-fine Pasteur pipette, 1 ml of clear supernatant from below the floating cell layer was removed. The remainder of the suspension (1 ml) was brought to 10 ml with 250 mm NaCl and mixed gently by inverting the tube twice. After a second spin of 5 min at 100 g, the supernatant was removed with a peristaltic pump, and the cell pellet was placed on ice. The cells were extracted in a final volume of 250 μl. Equal volumes of cell extract and culture medium were analysed by protein gel blotting or by enzymatic analysis. Protoplasts were extracted in α-amylase extraction buffer (CITATION) via sonication for 5 sec. The extracts were centrifuged for 10 min at 25 000 g at 4°C and the supernatant was recovered. The culture medium was also spun for 10 min at 25 000 g at 4°C to remove residual cell debris. The α-amylase assays and calculation of the secretion index were performed as described previously (CITATION). The secretion index represents the ratio between the extracellular and intracellular activity (CITATION). Transformed leaves were analysed 44–48 h after infection of the lower epidermis. Imaging was performed using an upright Zeiss Laser Scanning Confocal Microscope LSM510 META (Zeiss, Jena, Germany), and a 63× water immersion objective. For imaging expression of either GFP constructs or YFP constructs or both, we used imaging setting as described by CITATION with a 3 μm pinhole diameter. Time-lapse scanning was acquired with imaging system software of the microscope. Comparison of different levels of expression between cells expressing tagged Arf1 mutants was carried out by visualizing cells with the same imaging settings of the confocal microscope (i.e. laser intensity, pinhole diameter and settings of the imaging detectors) as described by CITATION. For each image, we used the palette function of the microscope software, which measures the fluorescence intensity value for each image pixel. Differences in the number of saturated pixels between cells were an indication of higher or lower concentrations of a GFP fusion. Subsequently, only for presentation purposes in this paper, the images may have been acquired with different settings. Spot FRAP experiments for fluorochrome photobleaching and half-time computation were performed as described by CITATION. Significance was determined using a Student two-tailed t-test for two samples assuming equal variance. For FRAP experiments, a steady-state protein distribution at the Golgi bodies was assumed. Such an assumption is reasonable as FRAP experiments have not produced appreciable differences when performed at either 2 or 3 days after transformation when the levels of expression are highest. Production of GST-Sec23 subcloned in pGEX vector was induced in Esherichia coli BL21(DE3) lysogens. Positive clones were selected for low-scale protein production. A single colony was inoculated initially into 5 ml of Luria Bertani containing ampicillin (100 μl ml−1), further expanded into a 100 ml shaker culture in 250 ml flasks. The cells were incubated with shaking at 30°C until an OD600 of approximately 1.0 was reached. Protein production was induced by the addition of 1 mm IPTG and further incubation of the culture for 5 h at 30°C. Cells were then pelleted and lysed according to the instructions provided by the manufacturer of the glutathione resin columns (BD Biosciences, Mississauga, Canada) for binding of GST-tagged proteins. Protein binding, removal of endogenous proteins and elution of GST-tagged proteins were performed according to the manufacturer's instructions. A sample (1 g) of leaves transformed with YFP-Sec24 was subjected to protein extraction in 1.25 ml of NE buffer (20 mm HEPES, pH 7.5, 100 mm NaCl, 10 mm EDTA, 5 mm MgCl2) with protease inhibitor cocktail for plant cell extracts (Sigma) in liquid N2. The resulting suspension was then centrifuged at 4°C, 14 000 g for 15 min. An aliquot (1 ml) of the supernatant was added to 150 μl of a glutathione–agarose beads suspension (see below) [72% in NS buffer (20 mm HEPES, pH 7.5, 100 mm NaCl, 5 mm MgCl2)] previously mixed with bacterial lysates containing GST-Sec23 and washed from unbound proteins. The mix was kept for 3 h at 4°C with gentle rotation. The beads were centrifuged at 4°C, 500 g for 1 min and then washed three times with NS buffer. Bound proteins were eluted from the beads with an appropriate volume of 5x SDS–PAGE sample buffer [0.225 m Tris-HCl, pH 6.8; 50% glycerol; 5% SDS; 0.05% bromophenol blue; 0.25 m DTT (QIAGEN-QIAexpressionist kit; Qiagen, Mississauga, Canada) in a proportion sample:buffer = 1:0.4, respectively] and run on a 10% SDS–PAGE gel. Western blot analysis of proteins was conducted on protoplast extracts after sonication of protoplasts in α-amylase extraction buffer, and on leaf extracts in NE buffer. Protein samples were resuspended in α-amylase extraction buffer, and were loaded in equal volumes after twofold dilution with 2x SDS loading buffer prior to boiling (CITATION). Proteins in SDS–polyacrylamide gels were transferred onto a nitrocellulose membrane and then blocked with PBS, 0.5% Tween-20, and 5% milk powder for 1 h. The filter was then incubated in blocking buffer with primary antibody at a dilution of 1:2000 for the anti-GFP serum (AbCam) and 1:5000 for the anti-IgG antibody. All the antisera were from rabbits, and further steps were performed as described by CITATION.
