!~ABS~! The phytohormone abscisic acid (ABA) regulates essential growth and developmental processes in plants. Recently, RNA-binding proteins have been described as components of ABA signaling during germination. We have identified ten ABA-regulated RNA-binding proteins in Arabidopsis seedlings. Among those genes, AtCSP41B and cpRNP29 are highly expressed in seedlings. Using promoter:reporter gene analyses, we showed that both AtCSP41B and cpRNP29 were in particular expressed in photosynthetically active organs like green cotyledons, leaves, and petioles. The analysis of CFP-fusion proteins demonstrates that cpRNP29 localized to chloroplasts and AtCSP41B to chloroplasts and stromules. Whereas RNA-binding of cpRNP29 has previously been shown, we demonstrated through in vitro RNA-binding assays that recombinant AtCSP41B binds to RNA, and that chloroplast petD RNA can serve as a target of AtCSP41B. Developmental or environmental stimuli affected the expression of AtCSP41B and cpRNP29 in seedlings. Both genes were repressed during senescence, but only AtCSP41B was significantly repressed upon water stress. In addition, AtCSP41B and cpRNP29 exhibited low expression in etiolated seedlings compared to green seedlings, and cpRNP29 was regulated during the day photoperiod. Homozygous T-DNA insertion lines were isolated, characterized on the molecular level, and monitored for phenotypic changes. Taken together, the data show that both proteins are regulated during processes that are known to involve ABA signaling. Their localization in chloroplasts and RNA-binding activity suggest a role in chloroplast RNA metabolism in Arabidopsis seedlings.
!~RES~! In a recent study, we investigated ABA-responsive gene expression at the whole-genome level in Arabidopsis seedlings ecotype Landsberg erecta (Le) using massively parallel signature sequencing (MPSS) (Hoth et al. CITATION). Upon treatment of the seedlings with ABA, about 1,300 genes displayed a significant change in transcript abundance. Among those were ten genes that encode putative RNA-binding proteins based on similarity to known proteins or the prediction of an RNA-binding motif. While only two genes, At4g03110 and At5g55550, were ABA-induced, the remainder showed reduced transcript abundances after ABA treatment. Microarray data derived from ABA-treated Columbia (Col-0) and Wassilewskija (Ws-2) seedlings that were available from Genevestigator indicated similar ABA regulation for six of the ten genes (Zimmermann et al. CITATION). From these six genes we selected two genes exhibiting strongest expression in seedlings, namely At3g53460 (cpRNP29) and At1g09340 (AtCSP41B) for further analyses (Hoth et al. CITATION). Whereas ABA repression of AtCSP41B has been approved by RNA gel blot experiments (Hoth et al. CITATION), we confirmed the repression of cpRNP29 by ABA through RT-PCR analyses of RNA samples from wild type plants that were treated for 3 h with 50 μM ABA or mock solution (not shown). To approach the possible function of cpRNP29 and AtCSP41B in growth, development, and stress response, we studied the expression pattern of both genes during the plant life cycle. We generated promoter:reporter gene plants to study the distribution of cpRNP29 and AtCSP41B expression in Arabidopsis. For analysis of cpRNP29 expression, we studied cpRNP29-promoter:GUS and cpRNP29-promoter:GFP plants. GUS activity was detected in cotyledons (Fig. 1a), in the hypocotyl (Fig. 1b, c), in the shoot apex (Fig. 1c), in adult leaves and petioles (Fig. 1d, f–i), and in sepals (Fig. 1e). Using confocal laser scanning microscopy we observed cpRNP29-promoter-driven GFP expression in epidermis and guard cells of the lower and upper side of leaves (Fig. 1f, g) and in trichomes (Fig. 1h, i). However, we did not detect GUS staining in all trichomes and can thus not exclude that GFP synthesized in epidermis cells symplastically moved into trichomes. Analyses of AtCSP41B-promoter:GUS and AtCSP41B-promoter:GFP plants revealed the expression of AtCSP41B in the hypocotyls and cotyledons of young seedlings (Fig. 2a–c). In older seedlings, AtCSP41B-promoter-driven GFP expression was detected by confocal laser scanning microscopy in the lower and upper side of all leaves tested as well as in the petiole (Fig. 2d–g). An optical z-section through the lower side of leaves elucidated that GFP expression was limited to the outer epidermal cell layer including guard cells (Fig. 2f). Expression of AtCSP41B in trichomes was indicated by AtCSP41B-promoter-driven GFP and GUS expression (Fig. 2h, i). In addition, AtCSP41B-promoter-driven GUS activity was found in hydathodes of adult leaves, sepals, and in siliques (Fig. 2j–l). The shown data for both genes are in agreement with the microarray expression data summarized in the gene atlas of Genevestigator (Zimmermann et al. CITATION). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  We also studied the regulation of gene expression by environmental and developmental signals to gain insights into gene function. With respect to the ABA-repression of AtCSP41B and cpRNP29, we investigated the regulation of these genes during processes that have been suggested to involve ABA. In vivo imaging experiments on transgenic Arabidopsis plants that exhibit ABA-dependent reporter activation showed that water stress applied to the root system increased ABA pools in the shoot and with a certain delay in cotelydons (Christmann et al. CITATION). To test whether water stress affects the expression of the two ABA-repressed genes, we incubated Col-0 seedlings for 16 h in the presence and absence of 200 mM mannitol. Using RT-PCR analyses we observed that cpRNP29 transcript levels were not or only weakly affected. However, there was a pronounced repression of AtCSP41B expression (Fig. 3a). Correspondingly, AtCSP41B-promoter:GUS plants showed strong GUS activity in cotyledons after incubation in the absence of mannitol, but staining was very weak after incubation on 200 mM mannitol (Fig. 3b, c). The quantification of the gene expression data by real-time RT-PCR revealed a 2.3-fold repression for AtCSP41B (Fig. 3a). This mannitol repression of AtCSP41B expression that we have shown by two independent approaches is consistent with expression data that were collected by Kudla and colleagues (University of Münster, Germany) and are summarized in the Genevestigator (Alonso et al. CITATION). [[FIGURE]]  Another physiological response that can be promoted by ABA is leaf senescence. We therefore studied gene expression during leaf senescence in 6-week-old Col-0 plants that showed symptoms of senescence, namely yellowing of leaves. For that purpose we harvested green leaves, early senescent leaves, and leaves showing progression of senescence. Expression of cpRNP29 was only slightly diminished, but expression of AtCSP41B was strongly repressed during the senescence process in leaves (Fig. 3d). Real-time RT-PCR experiments that were performed on RNA samples of three independent treatments indicated a 2.4-fold repression for cpRNP29 and a 5.4-fold repression for AtCSP41B during the senescence process from green leaves to leaves that showed progression of senescence. In early senescent leaves, only AtCSP41B was significantly repressed (Fig. 3e). During the determination of the tissue-specific expression for AtCSP41B, the staining of leaves that were cut from AtCSP41B-promoter:GUS plants for GUS activity revealed AtCSP41B-promoter activity at the sites of injury (Fig. 3f, g). The role of ABA during the response of plants to wounding is still unclear. It has been suggested to be involved in the general maintenance of plant physiology upon injury rather than in defense gene activation (Birkenmeier and Ryan CITATION). The regulation of AtCSP41B by wounding was tested in more detail via incisions in leaves and via soft pressure that was applied by pressing one side of the leaf between two fingers. Histochemical analyses revealed that GUS activity was induced specifically at the wounding sites (Fig. 3f, g). To exclude the possibility that the increased GUS activity at the sites of wounding may simply result from a better accessibility for the substrate into the injured tissue, cell-free extracts were received from tissues that had been wounded via incisions and from untreated control tissues. GUS activities in these extracts were determined via the hydrolysis-induced fluorescence of the GUS substrate 4-methylumbelliferyl-β-d-glucuronide (MUG). Whereas strong fluorescence was observed in wounded AtCSP41B-promoter:GUS leaf tissues, the signal was significantly lower in untreated leaves from the identical plants (Fig. 3f, inset). The weak fluorescence in control tissues might derive from the wound-induction at the cutting site of the petiole. From three independent experiments we determined a wound induction of 1.44 ± 0.08-fold. Some ABA-mediated processes in plants also depend on the light environment. We therefore studied gene expression during the day photoperiod under short-day conditions. The expression of cpRNP29, but not AtCSP41B showed a diurnally regulated increase in the afternoon towards the end of the photoperiod (Fig. 3h). The expression stayed on a high level for additional 4 h in darkness before returning to the basal expression level. This peak of cpRNP29 expression was highly similar under long-day conditions thus indicating that cpRNP29 is regulated by circadian rhythm (not shown). In agreement with this assumption, cpRNP29 was found to be under clock control following data from the Genevestigator (Zimmermann et al. CITATION). These data that were collected in continous white light also showed a cpRNP29 peak expression in the same time interval. We also studied the expression of both genes in 8-day-old etiolated seedlings in comparison to green seedlings. Both genes cpRNP29 and AtCSP41B were expressed to only low levels in etiolated seedlings, but their expression was strongly increased after greening (Fig. 3i). As an approach towards the functional understanding of the RNA-binding proteins, we studied the subcellular localization of cpRNP29 and AtCSP41B. For that purpose, we generated DNA constructs that express cpRNP29-CFP (cyan fluorescent protein) and AtCSP41B-CFP fusion proteins driven by the CaMV 35S-promoter. From in vitro import assays of cpRNP29 precursors into isolated pea chloroplasts it has been suggested that cpRNP29 is a chloroplast-located protein (Ohta et al. CITATION). This prediction was supported by studies of the chloroplast proteome (van Wijk CITATION). We were aiming at the in vivo verification of the localization by detecting the cpRNP29-CFP fusion protein in living cells using noninvasive confocal laser scanning microscopy. Following particle bombardment of onion epidermis cells with the 35S-promoter:cpRNP29-CFP DNA-construct, CFP fluorescence was found in spots that had the size of plastids (Fig. 4a). In leaves of transgenic 35S-promoter:cpRNP29-CFP tobacco plants, the CFP signal was detected in small plastids in the epidermal cell layer (Fig. 4b, c). No previous localization data were available for AtCSP41B. Following the same approach as for cpRNP29, we transiently expressed an AtCSP41B-CFP fusion protein in onion and tobacco leaf cells. The CFP signal in a bombarded tobacco guard cell indicated the targeting of AtCSP41B to chloroplasts (Fig. 5a). In onion epidermis cells, the fusion protein also localized to small spots that were likely plastidic structures (Fig. 5b). In addition, these structures exhibited protruding fibers that were reminiscent to stromules (Fig. 5c). The localization in chloroplasts and stromules was confirmed in leaves of transgenic 35S-promoter:AtCSP41B-CFP Arabidopsis plants (Fig. 5d–g). AtCSP41B expression was strong in tissues of high stromule density like the hypocotyl and cotyledons (Fig. 5h, i, cf. Fig. 2b, e). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]   AtCSP41B encodes a protein of 378 amino acids with similarity to the spinach CSP41A protein that has been shown to bind to RNA (Yang et al. CITATION). In contrast to AtCSP41A (At3g63140) that shares 71% amino acid sequence identity to CSP41A from spinach, AtCSP41B shares only about 29% amino acid sequence identity to the spinach CSP41 protein. To examine whether AtCSP41B can bind to RNA, we carried out in vitro binding assays with recombinant AtCSP41B. His-tagged AtCSP41B protein was expressed in E. coli and purified under denaturing conditions together with proteins that served as positive (His-UL69N, containing an arginine-rich RNA-binding domain) or as negative controls in the RNA-binding experiment (His-UL84ΔN and GST). After separation of the purified proteins via SDS-PAGE we observed prominent bands for AtCSP41B, UL69N, and UL84ΔN together with several faster migrating bands of lower abundance (Fig. 6a). These smaller proteins could be detected by anti-His antibodies in Western blot experiments suggesting that they corresponded to C-terminally truncated forms of the respective protein (not shown). In northwestern blot experiments using a 32P-UTP labeled 1.7 kb viral RNA substrate we observed a signal corresponding to the full-length AtCSP41B (Fig. 6b). An even stronger signal was detected with a truncated AtCSP41B protein, which could be due to a more efficient renaturation of this subdomain of the protein into a functional RNA-binding motif. RNA-binding to a truncated protein in addition to the full length protein also occurred for his-tagged UL69N that was used as a positive control (Toth et al. CITATION). In contrast, RNA-binding was absent in both negative controls, his-tagged UL84ΔN and GST (Fig. 6b). For the spinach CSP41 protein strong specificity for the petD RNA sequence has been demonstrated. The petD gene encodes subunit IV of the cytochrome b 6/f complex. To identify a target RNA for AtCSP41B, we investigated binding to petD from Arabidopsis (AtCg00730). Indeed, full-length AtCSP41B as well as the truncated form could bind petD RNA in northwestern blotting experiments (Fig. 6c). [[FIGURE]]  To further confirm RNA-binding by AtCSP41B, a gel retardation analysis was performed as an alternative experimental approach. For this, the FLAG-tagged proteins AtCSP41B, UL69 (serving as a positive control) and ΔR1ΔRS (serving as a negative control) were expressed in HEK293T cells and affinity-purified using anti-FLAG M2 affinity gel (Toth et al. CITATION). As determined by Western blot analysis, only full-length AtCSP41B was purified from mammalian cells (Fig. 6d). Equal amounts of the purified proteins AtCSP41B, ΔR1ΔRS and UL69 were then incubated together with a 32P-labeled RNA-probe derived from the 5′ end of the HCMV UL69 gene. After native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis retarded RNA–protein complexes were detected via autoradiography. As shown in Fig. 6e, the addition of increasing amounts of FLAG-AtCSP41B resulted in a strong retardation of the RNA probe, which was also observed for the known RNA-binding protein FLAG-UL69. In contrast, no significant retardation was detected with the RNA-binding deficient UL69 mutant protein ΔR1ΔRS (Toth et al. CITATION). In summary, this demonstrates that full-length AtCSP41B could bind to RNA in vitro indicating its function as an RNA-binding protein. To gain insight into the physiological functions of AtCSP41B and cpRNP29, we sought to assess the consequences of loss of AtCSP41B or cpRNP29. We isolated homozygous T-DNA insertion lines, csp41b-1, from segregating T3 seeds corresponding to stock number SALK_017930 from the SALK collection (Alonso et al. CITATION). However, the insertion that was localized to position-202 upstream of the start ATG did not cause a significant change of AtCSP41B expression in csp41b-1 seedlings (not shown) indicating that the truncated promoter is sufficient to mediate wild type-like AtCSP41B expression. For cpRNP29, we established the homozygous T-DNA insertion line cprnp29-1 from segregating T3 lines originally received from the SALK institute (Alonso et al. CITATION). Sequence analysis identified the insertional site in exon III after 803 bases following the start ATG (Fig. 7a). We determined left border sequence on both sides of the T-DNA suggesting that the insertion occurred in tandem orientation. RT-PCR analysis failed to detect full length cpRNP29 transcript in the mutant (Fig. 7b). However, we detected the expression of a truncated transcript cpRNP29Δ in front of the insertion (Fig. 7b). The cprnp29-1 mutant plants did not have any visible whole plant growth phenotype under long- or short-day conditions, respectively (Fig. 7c). Hypocotyl elongation was not affected in the mutant plants (Fig. 7d). Mutant plants did also not differ from wild type plants during drought response, dark-induced senescence or greening of etiolated seedlings after transfer to light (not shown). Regarding the ABA regulation of cpRNP29, we investigated ABA-dependent germination and growth that represents a classical assay for ABA signaling mutants. However, the cpRNP29-1 mutation did not result in phenotypic differences in the presence of 0.5, 3 or 5 μM ABA when compared to wild type (not shown). [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~!  Arabidopsis thaliana wild type and transgenic plants (ecotype Columbia-0, seeds received from The Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre) were grown at 21°C under short-day conditions (8 h of light/16 h of dark) for 2–4 weeks before being placed in a growth chamber with 16 h photoperiod. For growth on agar under long-day conditions (16 h of light/8 h of dark), seeds were surface-sterilized and sown on Petri dishes containing Murashige and Skoog salts, 0.8% phyto agar and 1% sucrose (Duchefa Biochemie, Haarlem, The Netherlands). For cloning in Escherichia coli, we used strain DH5α (Hanahan CITATION). Transformation of Arabidopsis was performed using Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 (Holsters et al. CITATION). For generation of promoter:reporter gene constructs, we isolated the respective promoters from wild type Columbia-0 genomic DNA. We amplified a 1,500 bp SphI/NcoI fragment for At3g53460 using primers 5′-CTGGCATGCTCGAGGAGGTTCGTTGTTGGAG-3′ and 5′-GTTCCATGGGCTAAAGCTTGAGAGAATTTTG-3′ and a 1,538 bp SphI/NcoI fragment for At1g09340 using primers 5′-CTGGCATGCACAATGATTGTGAATGGGTTTTAAG-3′ and 5′-GTTCCATGGGTTGATTGGTTAAGTCTCTG-3′. The fragments were cloned into Zero Blunt Topo (Invitrogen) and sequenced, and the inserts were cloned in front of the GFP reporter gene in the vector pGA03 or in front of the GUS reporter gene in the vector pAF6 (pAF6 and pGA03 are pUC19-based plasmids, harboring the GFP [pGA03] or GUS [pAF6] reporter genes). From the resulting plasmids, the promoter:GFP or promoter:GUS fragments were excised and cloned into pAF16 (Stadler et al. CITATION) via HindIII and SacI. For cloning of At3g53460-promoter:reporter gene constructs into pAF16, we used XbaI resulting in a reduction of the originally amplified At3g53460-promoter fragment to a length of 1,470 bp. The generated plasmids were used for transformation of Arabidopsis (Clough and Bent CITATION). Transformants were obtained by basta selection. For construction of cDNA-CFP fusions, we amplified the cpRNP29 cDNA from the full length clone RAFL05-05-C12 (Seki et al. CITATION), introduced an AscI site in front of the ATG and a MluI site that replaced the TGA stop codon using primers 5′-GACTAGGCGCGCCACATGTCTGCCTCTGCTTCTTC-3′ and 5′-GAGTCACGCGTAAATTGGCCTCTTGGTGGCCTAG-3′. AtCSP41B cDNA was amplified from the full length clone RAFL09-69-H02 (Seki et al. CITATION). We introduced an AscI site in front of the ATG and a MluI site that replaced the TAA stop codon using primers 5′-GACTAGGCGCGCCACATGGCGAAGATGATGATGTTG-3′ and 5′-GAGTCACGCGTTTGAAGAACAAGTTTCTTGCTC-3′. The fragments were cloned into Zero Blunt Topo (Invitrogen) and sequenced, and the inserts were cloned in front of the CFP gene in the vector CFP-pBA002, a pBA002 derivative that has been equipped with the CFP gene via the MluI and SpeI sites (Kost et al. CITATION). These plasmids were used for transformation of Arabidopsis (Clough and Bent CITATION), and transformants were obtained by basta selection. Transgenic promoter:GUS plants were submerged in a solution containing 1 mM X-Gluc, 0.5 mM potassium ferrocyanide, 0.5 mM potassium ferricyanide, 0.1% Triton X-100, 10 mM EDTA, and 100 mM NaPO4 pH 7.0, vacuum-infiltrated 30 s, and incubated at 37°C for 1–5 h. Chlorophyll was extracted by incubation in 70% ethanol after staining. Pictures of the stained plants were taken with a stereomicroscope (Leica MZFLIII, Leica Microsystems) and a Color View II camera controlled by the analySIS Doku 3.2 imaging software (Soft Imaging Systems, Münster, Germany). For transient expression of cpRNP29-CFP and AtCSP41B-CFP, 5 mg of surface-sterilized (70% ethanol, v/v) gold particles (0.3- to 3-μm diameter; ChemPur, Karlsruhe, Germany) were resuspended in 50 μl sterile water and mixed with 10 μl of the corresponding plasmids (1 μg/μl in water). To this mixture, 50 μl 2.5 M CaCl2 and 20 μl of 0.1 M spermidin were added. After the addition of 100% ethanol, the mixture was kept at −20°C for 30 min and centrifuged for 1 min at 14,000g, and gold particle-attached DNA was resuspended in 50 μl of water. We used 9 μl of the solution to bombard the lower epidermis of tobacco leaves or the inner epidermis of white onion peels under vacuum (0.2 bar) using 50 ms helium pulses of 9 bar. After bombardment, leaves and onion peels were incubated for 24 h on agar plates containing Murashige and Skoog medium (Duchefa Biochemie) and 0.3 M mannitol. High-resolution images of CFP and GFP fluorescence were made with a confocal laser scanning microscope (Leica TCS SP II; Leica Microsystems, Bensheim, Germany) using a 100-mW argon laser (458 nm for CFP and 488 nm for GFP) and detection windows from 480 to 507 nm for CFP, from 497 to 526 nm for GFP, from 682 to 730 nm for chlorophyll, and from 595 to 640 nm for propidium iodide. Confocal images were processed using the Leica Confocal Software 2.5 (Leica Microsystems) and presented as maximum projection or optical z-sections. For wounding experiments, adult leaves were cut into 1–2 mm sections and incubated in 50 mM Na-phosphate buffer (pH 7.0), 10 mM EDTA, and 0.1% (w/v) Triton X-100 at room temperature. The sections or control leaves were withdrawn after 4 h, and 5 μl of GUS reaction buffer [50 mM Na-phosphate buffer (pH 7.0), 10 mM EDTA, and 0.1% (w/v) Triton X-100, 0.1% (w/v) SDS, and 10 mM β-mercaptoethanol] per milligram plant material was added after homogenization. After centrifugation, 70 μl of the supernatant was mixed with 7 μl of 10 mM MUG (4-methylumbelliferyl-β-d-glucuronide) and incubated for 1 h at room temperature. The fluorescence was monitored after excitation by UV light. The quantification was performed using a Tecan spectrafluor fluorescence microplate reader (Tecan, Crailsheim, Germany). For water stress experiments, Arabidopsis seedlings were grown on agar plates under long-day conditions, transferred to plates that contained 200 mM mannitol or mock, and incubated for 16 h before withdrawing the plant material. For the expression analyses during the photoperiod, plants were grown on soil under short- and long-day conditions for 9 weeks, respectively. Samples were collected at the indicated times following the start of the experiment at 8 a.m. Total RNA was isolated with Trizol reagent (Invitrogen). RT-PCRs were performed with the RevertAid™ H Minus First Strand cDNA Synthesis Kit (Fermentas, St. Leon-Rot, Germany) followed by PCR analyses using primers 5′-GTAATGAACAATCTCTGGCTCC-3′ and 5′- GATCCGAAGAGCAGGCAC-3′ for AtCSP41B, 5′-GTTCAGGAAACCGTCTCTACG-3′ and 5′- GAAAGAGGTGTGACCGCTC-3′ for cpRNP29, and 5′-ATTCAGATGCCCAGAAGTCTTGTT-3′ and 5′-GAAACATTTTCTGTGAACGATTCCT-3′ for actin. Real-time RT-PCRs were carried out using a RotorGene 2000 (Corbett Research, Sydney, Australia) and the QuantiTect® SYBR Green PCR Master Mix from Qiagen. Samples were standardized to the actin mRNA levels. For the expression of AtCSP41B in E. coli, we amplified a 1,149 bp EcoRI/XhoI fragment from the AtCSP41B cDNA-CFP fusion construct using primers 5′-GTACGAATTCATGGCGAAGATGATGATGTTG-3′ and 5′-GATCTCGAGTTATTGAAGAACAAGTTTCTTGCTC-3′. The PCR-amplified open reading frame encoding for AtCSP41B was cloned into Zero Blunt Topo (Invitrogen) and sequenced. Thereafter, it was inserted into the pQE32 expression vector (Qiagen) via SphI and PstI restriction sites by PCR cloning using primers 5′-ATCAGCATGCGCATGGCGAAGATGATGATGTTG-3′ and 5′-ATCACTGCAGTTATTGAAGAACAAGTTTCTTG-3′, which allows the expression of a recombinant protein as fusion with a leader peptide containing a hexahistidyl sequence. An eukaryotic expression vector for AtCSP41B was generated by PCR amplification of the AtCSP41B cDNA using primers 5′-ATCGGAATTCTCATGGCGAAGATGATGATGTTGC-3′ and 5′-ATCGCTCGAGTTATTGAAGAACAAGTTTCTTG-3′ followed by insertion into vector FLAG-pcDNA3 via EcoRI and XhoI. This vector could be used for expression of a FLAG-tagged fusion protein in mammalian cells. Expression of the His 6-tagged AtCSP41B protein was performed in the M15/rep4 E. coli strain. Cells were transformed with the generated pQE32 plasmid and grown at 37°C. IPTG was added to a final concentration of 1 mM at OD600 = 0.6 and the incubation was continued for 4 h. Cells were collected by centrifugation and lysed in a buffer containing 6 M guanidine hydrochloride, 10 mM Tris–HCl, pH 8.0. The recombinant protein was purified by metal chelate affinity chromatography on Ni2+-nitrilotriacetic acid agarose (Qiagen), separated by SDS-PAGE, and blotted onto a nitrocellulose membrane. Purified, his-tagged UL69N protein (containing an arginine-rich RNA-binding domain of the cytomegalovirus UL69 protein) was used as a positive control; purified GST-protein as well as a His-tagged subfragment of the cytomegalovirus protein UL84 (UL84ΔN) were used as negative controls (Toth et al. CITATION). After blotting, the membrane was incubated overnight in northwestern (NW) binding buffer (10 mM Tris pH 7.5, 50 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 0.02% Denhardt´s solution) to enable the renaturation of proteins. Then, incubation was continued for 2 h at 23°C in the presence of 100 μg/ml tRNA in NW binding buffer. After addition of the 32P-UTP labeled RNA-probe and incubation for 6 h at 23°C, the membrane was washed three times for 10 min with NW-buffer. We used two different RNA-probes: (1) a 1.7 kb transcript of the cytomegalovirus open reading frame UL82, that was synthesized using plasmid pHM1584 together with T7 RNA polymerase and (2) a 140 bp transcript of the Arabidopsis petD that was synthesized with T7 RNA polymerase using a plasmid containing the corresponding DNA-fragment. The plasmid was generated by annealing oligonucleotides 5′-CTTTAGGTCTTTTTTAATTCAATTTATTCAATTGTAAAATAAACGACGTGGGTATCTAGGGAGGTATCTAGGGAGTAGTCATTTCCAAATGAATTCTCCCTAGATACATATCTAATTCTAATTAATTTAATTAATTAATT-3′ and 5′-AATTAATTAATTAAATTAATTAGAATTAGATATGTATCTAGGGAGAATTCATTTGGAAATGACTACTCCCTAGATACCTCCCTAGATACCCACGTCGTTTATTTTACAATTGAATAAATTGAATTAAAAAAGACCTAAAG-3′ followed by subcloning into Zero Blunt Topo (Invitrogen) and sequencing. Signals were detected by autoradiography. For RNA gel shift assays affinity-purified FLAG fusion proteins were incubated with a 150 nt 32P-labeled RNA probe for 20 min at RT in binding buffer (10 mM Tris–HCl, pH 7.4, 100 mM KCl, 2 mM DTT and 1% Triton X-100). The RNA probe was derived from the 5′ end of the HCMV UL69 gene. FLAG-tagged AtCSP41B, UL69 and the RNA-binding deficient UL69 mutant ΔR1ΔRS were expressed in HEK293T (human embryonic kidney) cells and purified from crude cell lysates by immunoprecipitation with an anti-FLAG M2 affinity gel as described (Toth et al. CITATION). Detection of the purified proteins was performed by Western blot analysis using the anti-FLAG monoclonal antibody M2 (Sigma). RNA-protein complexes were analysed by electrophoresis on a 6% native polyacrylamide gel followed by autoradiography. Homozygous csp41b-1 mutant plants were isolated from seeds of segregating T3 lines of the T-DNA insertion line SALK_017930 (Alonso et al. CITATION). The insertion in the gene was identified using T-DNA left border primer LBa (5′-TGGTTCACGTAGTGGGCCATCG-3′) and two AtCSP41B-specific primers (5′-CACCTTCTCCGTTGTGGAAAG-3′ and 5′-GATAGTCGTCAGAACGAAGGATG-3′). The exact position of the T-DNA insertion in the csp41b-1 mutant was determined by sequencing after selfing the original plants. Homozygous cpRNP29-1 mutant plants were isolated from seeds of segregating T3 lines of the T-DNA insertion line SALK_003066 (Alonso et al. CITATION). The insertion in the gene was identified using T-DNA left border primer LBa and two cpRNP29-specific primers (5′-CAAAGGCGGATAAAGCCTAG-3′ and 5′-CTTCTTCTAGGTTGTTCGTG-3′). The exact position of the T-DNA insertion in the cpRNP29-1 mutant was determined by sequencing after selfing the original plants.
