!~ABS~!  Actin microfilaments (MFs) participate in many fundamental processes in plant growth and development. Here, we report the co-localization of the actin MF and vacuolar membrane (VM), as visualized by vital VM staining with FM4-64 in living tobacco BY-2 cells stably expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP)–fimbrin (BY-GF11). The MFs were intensively localized on the VM surface and at the periphery of the cytoplasmic strands rather than at their center. The co-localization of MFs and VMs was confirmed by the observation made using transient expression of red fluorescent protein (RFP)–fimbrin in tobacco BY-2 cells stably expressing GFP–AtVam3p (BY-GV7) and BY-2 cells stably expressing γ-tonoplast intrinsic protein (γ-TIP)–GFP fusion protein (BY-GG). Time-lapse imaging revealed dynamic movement of MF structures which was parallel to that of cytoplasmic strands. Disruption of MF structures disorganized cytoplasmic strand structures and produced small spherical vacuoles in the VM-accumulating region. Three-dimensional reconstructions of the vacuolar structures revealed a disconnection of these small spherical vacuoles from the large vacuoles. Real-time observations and quantitative image analyses demonstrated rapid movements of MFs and VMs near the cell cortex, which were inhibited by the general myosin ATPase inhibitor, 2,3-butanedion monoxime (BDM). Moreover, both bistheonellide A (BA) and BDM treatment inhibited the reorganization of the cytoplasmic strands and the migration of daughter cell nuclei at early G 1 phase, suggesting a requirement for the acto-myosin system for vacuolar morphogenesis during cell cycle progression. These results suggest that MFs support the vacuolar structures and that the acto-myosin system plays an essential role in vacuolar morphogenesis. 
!~RES~!  To visualize MF and VM structures simultaneously in living plant cells, we used the tobacco BY-GF11 cell line (Sano et al. CITATION ) and FM4-64, a stylyl dye that specifically labeled the VM (Kutsuna and Hasezawa CITATION ). It was possible to do this in tobacco BY-GV7 cells, in which the VM was labeled by GFP–AtVam3p, by the saponin-permeabilizing method ( Fig. 1 A–C) as reported previously (Kutsuna et al. CITATION ). However, because of the sensitivity of the MFs and VMs to saponin, not all cells were suitable for observation by this staining method. In the living tobacco BY-GF11 cell line, we could observe the MFs without saponin treatment ( Fig. 1 D, E). In addition, the VM structures in the BY-GF11 cells could be visualized by FM4-64 without saponin treatment ( Fig. 1 F). Using this vital VM staining technique in the BY-GF11 cells, we succeeded in carrying out dual observations of the MFs and VMs in living cells without any adverse side effects.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  To examine in detail the spatial configuration of MFs and VMs, we observed the dual visualized cells using confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM). In living BY-GF11 cells stained with FM4-64, we found that the MFs localized close to the cell cortex ( Fig. 2 A–D, small arrows; Fig. 2 E), vacuolar surface ( Fig. 2 A–D, large arrows; Fig. 2 E) and along the cytoplasmic strands ( Fig. 2 A–D, arrowheads; Fig. 2 F). The latter two localizations were confirmed by FM4-64 staining (compare the large and small arrows in Fig. 2 C). An intensity profile across the vacuolar surface and cell cortex showed that the MFs localized on the vacuolar surface more intensively ( Fig. 2 G, large arrow) than close to the cell cortex ( Fig. 2 G, small arrow). In the cytoplasmic strands, MFs seemed to localize at the periphery of the strands rather than at the center of strands ( Fig. 2 D, R–S). An intensity profile across the cytoplasmic strands revealed the close localization of the MFs and VMs ( Fig. 2 H).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  To confirm the above co-localization of MFs and VMs, we transiently expressed red fluorescent protein (RFP)–fimbrin in tobacco BY-GV7 cells. The fluorescence of RFP–fimbrin and GFP–AtVam3p was localized close together on the cytoplasmic strands ( Fig. 2 I–K), which was in agreement with that found using GFP–fimbrin and FM4-64. In addition, we generated a transgenic tobacco BY-2 cell line that stably expresses tobacco γ-tonoplast intrinsic protein (γ-TIP)–GFP. In Arabidopsis, γTIP–GFP localized on the VMs and endoplasmic reticulum and is used as another marker of the VM (Mitsuhashi et al. CITATION , Saito et al. CITATION ). Confocal images of our transgenic cell line named BY-GG (BY-2 cells stably expressing γTIP–GFP) confirmed the co-localization of the VMs and the MFs which were visualized by the transient expression of RFP–fimbrin ( Fig. 2 L–N).   Since the above dual localization suggested a role for MFs in cytoplasmic strand organization, we performed a time-sequential observation of the cytoplasmic strand movement. Bright field observation showed a rapid movement of the cytoplasmic strands which was also reported in other sytems (Emans et al. CITATION , Uemura et al. CITATION , Hoffmann and Nebenfuhr CITATION , Ruthardt CITATION ). According to the cytoplasmic strand movements, fluorescent images of the GFP–fimbrin revealed parallel movements of the MFs ( Fig. 3 A–C arrows, Supplementary movie 1, 2). In addition, fluorescent spots of GFP–fimbrin were moving on the surface of the large vacuole, which was confirmed by bright field imaging ( Fig. 3 C arrowheads, Supplementary movie 2). Together with the co-localization of MFs and VMs, these observations implied the importance of the motility of the MFs for the vacuolar movement.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  To confirm the relationship between MF and VM structures in the cytoplasmic strands, we examined the effect of BA, an inhibitor of actin polymerization. The cytoplasmic strands, which ran through the large vacuole, were evident before BA addition ( Fig. 4 A, 0 min, arrows). After BA application, the MFs and cytoplasmic strands gradually began to shrink synchronously ( Fig. 4 A, 15–45 min) and completely disappeared 45 min after BA addition. After the disruption of the strands, the small spherical vacuoles appeared from the region in which VM accumulated ( Fig. 4 A, 45–60 min, arrowheads). The disruption of the strands and the appearance of the small spherical vacuoles were also observed in both BY-GG cells ( Fig. 4 B) and BY-GV7 cells ( Fig. 6 B). Three-dimensional reconstructions of the vacuolar structures from serial images obtained by CLSM, using REANT software (Kutsuna and Hasezawa CITATION ), demonstrated that these small spherical vacuoles were disconnected from the large vacuoles ( Fig. 4 C, arrowheads).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  To confirm these phenomena observed by the above time-lapse imaging statistically, we counted cells with cytoplasmic strands or small spherical vacuoles. Upon BA treatment, most of the cytoplasmic strands disappeared, while an inhibitor of microtubule (MT) organization, propyzamide, had almost no effect ( Fig. 4 D). BA treatment also produced small spherical vacuoles in >80% of the cells, but these structures were never observed in the control and propyzamide-treated cells ( Fig. 4 E). Similar effects were observed by treatment with 100 µM CD, another inhibitor of actin polymerization (data not shown).   Since MFs seemed to be involved in the active movement of the cytoplasmic strands, we next focused on the movement of the MF arrays near the cell cortex. Projection of time-sequential images taken every 30 s showed dynamic movements of MFs near the cell cortex ( Fig. 5 A, C). In particular, some MFs were constantly swinging ( Fig. 5 E). To examine the role of myosin on the movement of MFs, we treated cells with the general myosin ATPase inhibitor, 2,3-butanedion monoxime (BDM) (Tominaga et al. CITATION ). Treatment of BY-GF11 cells with 30 mM BDM for 30 min maintained the structure of MFs but completely blocked their movements ( Fig. 5 B, D). In addition, cytoplasmic streaming was completely stopped (data not shown). When we quantified the MF movement using a correlation coefficient as an indicator of the alteration of images (see Materials and Methods), BDM treatment clearly inhibited the MF movement. Like the MF movements, when we monitored VM movement in tobacco BY-GV7 cells, the surface of the large vacuole was found to be constantly moving ( Fig. 6 A, D). This movement was inhibited by both BA and BDM treatment ( Fig. 6 E, F, G), but BA treatment additionally produced small spherical vacuoles, whereas BDM treatment did not change the VM structure essentially ( Fig. 6 B, C). Similar effects were observed in BY-2 cells stained with FM4-64 (data not shown).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  In earlier studies, we reported the dynamic changes in vacuolar structures during cell cycle progression (Kutsuna and Hasezawa CITATION , Kutsuna et al. CITATION ). In mitosis, most of the cytoplasmic strands disappeared but became reorganized at early G 1 phase (Hasezawa and Kumagai CITATION , Kutsuna and Hasezawa CITATION ). To examine the role of MFs in vacuolar dynamics during cell cycle progression, we observed synchronized BY-GF11 cells stained with FM4-64 in particular from telophase to early G 1 phase. At late telophase, very few MFs were observed in intravacuolar sheets ( Fig. 7 A, 0 min), but the MFs started to elongate along the intravacuolar sheets during the migration of the daughter nuclei in early G 1 phase, ( Fig. 7 A, 15 and 25 min, arrowheads). Finally, cytoplasmic strands with intensive MF localization could be recognized ( Fig. 7 A, 30 min, arrow). To investigate the involvement of acto-myosin in the formation of the cytoplasmic strands, BA or BDM was applied at late telophase. Reorganization of cytoplasmic strands was not observed, and migration of daughter nuclei was completely inhibited ( Fig. 7 B–E). In this stage of the cell cycle, bundle-like MF structures were accumulated near the cell surface and, immediately below the MF bundle, a VM structure was observed ( Fig. 8 A, arrows). Three-dimensional reconstructions of the vacuoles clearly showed the groove-like structure of the VM at early G 1 phase ( Fig. 8 B, arrows). If these VM structures are an origin of the cytoplasmic strands, the MF structures may be involved in the origination of the cytoplasmic strands in addition to their elongation and maintenance.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~!  A tobacco BY-2 ( Nicotiana tabacum L. cv. Bright Yellow 2) suspension was diluted 95-fold with modified Linsmaier and Skoog (LS) medium at weekly intervals as described (Nagata et al. CITATION ). The cell suspension was agitated on a rotary shaker at 130 r.p.m. at 27°C in the dark. For cell synchronization, 10 ml of 7-day-old cells were transferred to 95 ml of fresh medium and cultured for 24 h with 5 mg l −1 aphidicolin (Sigma Chemical Co., St Louis, MO, USA). The cells were washed with 10 vols of fresh medium and resuspended in the same medium. In order to obtain higher synchrony during the transition from M phase to G 1 phase, 3 µM propyzamide was added to the cell suspension to induce mitotic arrest at 6 h after release from aphidicolin. When propyzamide was removed after 4 h of treatment by washing with 10 vols of the medium, the cell population showed higher synchrony than with simple treatment with aphidicolin (Nagata et al., CITATION ).   A transgenic BY-2 cell line stably expressing a GFP–AtVam3p fusion protein was previously established and designated BY-GV7 (Kutsuna and Hasezawa, CITATION ). The BY-GF11 cell line, which stably expresses a GFP–fimbrin ABD2 fusion protein, was also established as described by Sano et al. ( CITATION ). These cell lines could be maintained and synchronized by almost the same procedure as used for the original BY-2 cell line.   Tobacco BY-2 γTIP cDNA was identified based on the nucleotide sequence of Nicotiana glauca γTIP (GenBank accession No. AF290619). A PCR fragment of the tobacco BY-2 γTIP was amplified with primers of γTIP fw (5′-CACCATGCCGATCA ACCAAATTGCT-3′) and γTIP rev (5′-AAAATCTCCACTT GGGAGTGG-3′). To obtain the full-length cDNA, the 5′ and 3′ cDNA ends were amplified by the RACE technique (SMART RACE cDNA Amplification kit, TAKARA SHUZO CO. LTD, Otsu, Japan). To create a γTIP–GFP construct, the PCR-amplified open reading frame region of tobacco γTIP was cloned into the pENTR/D/TOPO vector (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA) and subsequently into a binary vector of pGWB5 using the Gateway™ system (Invtitrogen). The pGWB5 vector that provides a C-terminal GFP fusion protein was kindly provided by Dr. T. Nakagawa of Shimane University.   The RFP–fimbrin construct was created by replacement of the GFP by tdTomato (Shaner et al. CITATION ) in the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S-sGFP(S65T)-AtFim1 ABD2 vector (Sano et al. CITATION ), resulting in an in-frame fusion of the N-terminus of RFP and the C-terminus of AtFim1 ABD2. The tdTomato vector was kindly provided by Dr. R. Y. Tsien of University of California.   The γTIP–GFP construct was transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA4404. A 4 ml aliquot of 3-day-old BY-2 cells was incubated with 100 µl of the overnight culture of the transformed A. tumefaciens as described by An ( CITATION ). After 2 d incubation at 27°C, cells were washed four times in 5 ml of LSD medium, then plated onto solid LSD medium containing 500 mg l −1 carbenicillin, 30 mg l −1 kanamycin and 15 mg l −1 hygromycin. Calluses, which appeared after 20 d, were transferred onto new plates and cultured independently until they reached approximately 1 cm in diameter, when they were transferred to 20 ml of liquid LSD medium and agitated on a rotary shaker at 130 r.p.m. at 27°C in the dark. After 1 month, a cell line suitable for observing VMs was selected by examination of GFP fluorescence by fluorescent microscopy, and the cell line obtained was designated BY-GG.   To observe MFs in the BY-GV7 cells, rhodamine–phalloidin was used essentially as described in our previous report (Kutsuna et al., CITATION ). BY-GV7 cells were suspended in a solution containing 50 mM PIPES (pH 6.8), 1 mM MgSO4, 5 mM EGTA, 1% glycerol, 3% sucrose, 0.03% saponin (ICN Biomedicals Inc., Aurora, OH, USA), 250 µM m -maleimidobenzoyl- N -hydroxysulfosuccinimide ester (Sulfo-MBS; Pierce Chemical Co., Rockford, IL, USA) and 0.3 µM rhodamine–phalloidin (Molecular Probes). The cells were incubated for 5 min at room temperature, and then observed.   To observe the VM in the BY-GF11 cells, N -[3-triethylammoniumpropyl)-4-(6-(4-(diethylamino)phenyl)hexatrienyl]-pyridium dibromide (FM4-64; Molecular Probes) was added to the cell suspension at a final concentration of 32 µM. The cells were incubated for 2 min, washed with fresh culture medium, and then monitored as described previously (Kutsuna and Hasezawa, CITATION ).  A cell suspension of 3-day-old BY-GV7 cells or BY-GG cells was filtrated onto filter paper, and the cells bombarded with gold particles (1.0 µM) coated with the appropriate vector constructs using a particle delivery system (PDS-1000/He, Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA, USA) according to the manufacture's recommendations. Filtrated cells were placed at a distance of 6 cm under the stopping screen and bombarded in a vacuum of 28 in Hg at a helium pressure of 1,100 p.s.i. Following bombardment, cells were diluted in LS medium and kept in the dark at 27°C for 6–12 h before observation. The cells were transferred into 35 mm Petri dishes with 14 mm coverslip windows at the bottom (Matsunami, Osaka, Japan). The dishes were placed onto the inverted platform of a fluorescence microscope (IX-70; Olympus) equipped with a confocal laser scanning head and control systems (CLSM GB-200; Olympus) or a cooled CCD camera head system (CoolSNAP HQ, PhotoMetricsInc., Huntington Beach, Canada). The images were processed digitally using Photoshop software (Adobe systems, San Jose, CA, USA). Indirect quantification of fluorescence levels was performed using MetaMorph image-analysis software (Universal Imaging Co., Downingtown, Panama). Cells were treated with 3 µM propyzamide (Wako Pure Chemical Ind., Osaka, Japan) to disrupt the MTs, or with 1 µM BA (Wako Pure Chemical Ind) or 100 µM CD (Sigma) to disrupt the MFs. Myosin activity was inhibited by treatment with 30 mM BDM (Sigma).  Reconstruction and visualization of the three-dimensional structures of the vacuoles were performed using REANT, as previously reported (Kutsuna and Hasezawa CITATION ). Serial optical sections were taken at 0.5 µm intervals.   Supplementary material mentioned in the article is available to online subscribers at the journal website www.pcp.oupjournals.org . 
