!~ABS~! Signaling through heterotrimeric G proteins is conserved in diverse eukaryotes. Compared to vertebrates, the simpler repertoire of G-protein complex and accessory components in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) offers a unique advantage over all other multicellular, genetic-model systems for dissecting the mechanism of G-protein signal transduction. One of several biological processes that the G-protein complex regulates in Arabidopsis is cell division. We determined cell production rate in the primary root and the formation of lateral roots in Arabidopsis to define individually the types of modulatory roles of the respective G-protein α- and β-subunits, as well as the heterotrimer in cell division. The growth rate of the root is in part a consequence of cell cycle maintenance in the root apical meristem (RAM), while lateral root production requires meristem formation by founder pericycle cells. Thus, a comparison of these two parameters in various genetic backgrounds enabled dissection of the role of the G-protein subunits in modulation of cell division, both in maintenance and initiation. Cell production rates were determined for the RAM and lateral root formation in gpa1 (Arabidopsis G-protein α-subunit) and agb1 (Arabidopsis G-protein β-subunit) single and double mutants, and in transgenic lines overexpressing GPA1 or AGB1 in agb1 or gpa1 mutant backgrounds, respectively. We found in the RAM that the heterotrimeric complex acts as an attenuator of cell proliferation, whereas the GTP-bound form of the Gα-subunit's role is a positive modulator. In contrast, for the formation of lateral roots, the Gβγ-dimer acts largely independently of the Gα-subunit to attenuate cell division. These results suggest that Arabidopsis heterotrimeric G-protein subunits have differential and opposing roles in the modulation of cell division in roots.
!~RES~! The results of quantitative real-time PCR and immunoblot analyses indicated that both GPA1 and AGB1 are more strongly expressed in roots than in shoots in young seedlings (Fig. 1, A and B ). Using Arabidopsis suspension cells expressing GPA1-cyan fluorescent protein (CFP) or yellow fluorescent protein (YFP)-AGB1, we found that the fusion proteins are preferentially distributed at the cell plate in newly divided cells (Fig. 1C), suggesting a role in cytokinesis. Recently, studies in both invertebrates and vertebrates have revealed an essential function of the heterotrimeric G proteins in positioning of the mitotic spindle and attaching microtubules to the cell cortex, which is distinct from their well-studied role in signal transduction downstream of seven-transmembrane (7TM) receptors (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To address the molecular mechanism by which the heterotrimeric G-protein complex regulates plant cell proliferation, we chose to examine cell division in roots, an organ where this growth parameter can be dissected both spatially and temporally within a multicellular context (i.e. not in yeast or in a cell suspension culture). [[FIGURE]] The morphological differences observed between wild-type and gpa1 and agb1 plants were ascribed to differences in cell proliferation rate and not histogenesis (CITATION, CITATION). We show that root growth rate in agb1-2 mutants was greater than Columbia (Col)-0 wild type, whereas gpa1-3 and gpa1-4 mutants have wild-type root growth rate (Supplemental Fig. 1). Root growth rate combines the rate at which the RAM produces cell derivatives that are recruited into the distal root and the rate at which these derivatives subsequently elongate. However, it is possible to indirectly calculate both parameters (described in “Materials and Methods”). agb1-2 and gpa1 (gpa1-3 and gpa1-4) mutants had more and fewer lateral roots, respectively (Supplemental Fig. 1). The formation of a lateral root requires an initiation of division of one pericycle cell, arguably at the G2/M transition (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, the number of lateral roots indicates the number of cell cycle entry events (CITATION). We determined both the rate of cell production in the primary RAM and the number of lateral roots to pinpoint the role of G-protein subunits in cell division in two different root cell types and compared and contrasted them. For clarity, data on only one allele of the gpa1 (gpa1-4) and agb1 (agb1-2) single mutants and one allele of the gpa1 agb1 double mutant (gpa1-4 agb1-2) are presented. These same single mutant alleles were used to generate the double and triple mutant combinations with gcr1 (CITATION) or with Atrgs1 (Fig. 4). Data on the second allele of the gpa1 single mutant, gpa1-3, and the second allele of the gpa1 agb1 double mutant, gpa1-3 agb1-2, are identical to those of gpa1-4 and gpa1-4 agb1-2, respectively (Supplemental Figs. 1 and 2). The agb1-1 allele (CITATION) is a point mutation mutant that behaved differently from agb1-2 mutant in the primary root growth assay (i.e. segregating phenotype), though it behaved similarly to agb1-2 in the lateral root formation assay (Supplemental Fig. 2), implying that it is not a null allele or that additional mutations are present. Consistent with this, we detected a larger AGB1 transcript in agb1-1 mutants (data not shown). Because agb1-2 was shown to be transcript null (CITATION) and because a 35S:AGB1 construct completely rescued the agb1-2 mutant phenotype (Tables I and II ), only the agb1-2 mutant was used for this study. Rates of cell production in the primary root of gpa1 and agb1 mutants and transgenic lines overexpressing GPA1 or AGB1 Root elongation rate and cortical root cell length were collected from at least 10 seedlings. se is indicated. Pairwise Student's t test was used to compare values to the control (1). *, Significant (P = 0.05); **, highly significant (P = 0.01). Lateral root numbers of gpa1 and agb1 mutants and transgenic lines overexpressing GPA1 or AGB1 Lateral roots were counted from 9-d-old, light-grown seedlings. Shown are the average numbers of lateral roots from at least 10 seedlings with associated se. Pairwise Student's t test was used to compare values to the control (1). *, Significant (P = 0.05); **, highly significant (P = 0.01). Combination of the two loss-of-function alleles, agb1-2 and gpa1-4, conferred longer primary roots and more lateral root phenotypes similar to the agb1-2 mutant allele acting alone (Supplemental Fig. 1). This genetic relationship was also the case for auxin-induced adventitious root formation in hypocotyls (Supplemental Fig. 2). While the focus of this study is on cell division in the root, for completeness sake we examined non-root phenotypes of G-protein mutants and found that, for all scorable traits, the agb1-2 mutant allele was epistatic to the gpa1-4 allele (Fig. 2 ). [[FIGURE]] If G-protein-coupled signaling in Arabidopsis follows the mechanism of action established in animal systems, a comparison of the phenotypes of these single and double mutants permits prediction of which subunit, namely, the activated Gα, the Gβγ-dimer, and/or the heterotrimeric complex, facilitates the primary signal transduction leading to root growth and lateral root formation. For example, because activation of the Gα-subunit leads to release of the Gβγ-dimer, opposite phenotypes, such as lateral root formation for gpa1 and agb1 null mutations, are generally interpreted to mean that the Gβγ-subunit is the predominant form regulating pericycle cell division. Because the Gβγ-dimer is required for proper coupling of Gα to its receptor in animal cells, phenotypes that are similar in gpa1 and agb1 mutants are generally interpreted to mean that either the Gα-subunit is the predominant active form or that the heterotrimeric complex is signaling. Because GPA1 and AGB1 form a molecular complex, mechanistic interpretations of epistasis relationships are precarious. Therefore, to address these issues, we overexpressed GPA1 or AGB1 in agb1 or gpa1 mutant backgrounds, respectively. This enabled us to dissect the individual roles of α and β/γ G-protein subunits as well as the heterotrimer in root cell proliferation. For example, we reasoned that a phenotype from overexpression of AGB1 in the absence of GPA1 precludes the interpretation of GPA1 sequestration. Similarly, overexpression of GPA1 in the absence of AGB1 enables a direct test of an individual GPA1 role in root cell proliferation because AGB1 is no longer available for recruitment by GPA1 to form the heterotrimer. The expression levels of GPA1 protein in 35S∷GPA1 transgenic lines were examined by immunoblot analysis using antibodies directed against the C terminus of GPA1. Because an exhausted attempt to make specific antibodies to the Arabidopsis Gβ-subunit failed, AGB1 transcript levels were measured by quantitative real-time PCR as an indirect assessment of AGB1 levels in overexpressing lines (Fig. 3 ). Based on the GPA1 protein levels in transgenic lines overexpressing GPA1 and the AGB1 transcript levels in transgenic lines overexpressing AGB1, two independent transgenic lines were chosen from each transformation for subsequent analyses of root cell division. These independent transgenic lines are designated by parentheses in Figure 3A or labeled with line numbers in Figure 3B. Subsequently, the data collected from these two independent transgenic lines were pooled and presented in Tables I and II, with corresponding statistical tests. [[FIGURE]] The increased root growth in both agb1-2 single and gpa1-4 agb1-2 double mutants was due to an increased cell production in the RAM (Table I, 1–4). Moreover, overexpression of AGB1 confers decreased cell production in the RAM (Table I, compare 1 and 9), demonstrating that the cell production rate in wild-type RAMs is not at basal level. The capacity for a lower cell production rate than for the control is a critical point as it enabled us to assign meaning to a “no change in rate” phenotype observed in the other genotypes overexpressing individual subunits. Combining both loss- and gain-of-function results in the wild-type background indicated that AGB1 is an attenuator of cell division in the primary root. We tested if the attenuation of root cell division by AGB1 requires a functional GPA1. We examined overexpression of AGB1 in the absence of GPA1 and determined if cell division in the RAM is altered. Overexpression of AGB1 in the agb1 mutant complemented the primary root phenotype (Table I), indicating that the transgene is functional. When AGB1 was overexpressed in gpa1 or gpa1 agb1 mutant backgrounds, no effect on primary root growth was observed (Table I, compare 9, 10, 11 and 12), indicating that AGB1 action requires a functional GPA1. This suggests that either Gα acts downstream of AGB1 or that the intact heterotrimeric complex itself acts to modulate cell division in the RAM. To distinguish between these two possibilities, the reciprocal experiment was performed. We examined overexpression of GPA1 in the absence of AGB1 and determined if cell division in the RAM is altered. We found that ectopic expression of GPA1 in a background containing AGB1 reduced cell proliferation (Table I, compare 1–5). However, this decrease in cell proliferation by additional GPA1 required a functional AGB1 (Table I, compare 5–8). These results are consistent with the conclusion that the heterotrimeric state of the G-protein complex is required to negatively modulate cell proliferation in the RAM. A signaling role for the intact heterotrimeric complex is rare but not unprecedented (CITATION), although this is the first report, to our knowledge, for a role by the heterotrimer in cell division. We previously identified a 7TM protein, RGS1, as the sole regulator of G-signaling protein in Arabidopsis (CITATION). RGS1 contains an RGS domain at its C terminus, preferentially binds to the activated form (GTP bound) of GPA1, and negatively regulates G-protein signaling by accelerating the GTPase activity of Gα-subunits (GAP activity). Loss of function of rgs1 resulted in increased cell production in the primary root, whereas it had no significant effect on lateral root formation (CITATION). With a single RGS gene in Arabidopsis, it was possible to increase the pool of the activated (GTP-bound) form of GPA1 by disruption of RGS1 (rgs1-2; CITATION). As shown in Figure 4A , an increase in activated Gα conferred a statistically significant increase in cell production in the primary root in the presence of a functional Gβ-subunit. [[FIGURE]] We further generated double and triple mutants among gpa1-4, agb1-2, and rgs1-2 loss-of-function mutants to test the genetic interaction between RGS1 and the heterotrimeric G-protein-complex genes in the regulation of root cell division by measuring the cell production rate in the primary root and lateral root formation in these double and triple mutants. We found that the stimulatory effect in the rgs1-2 mutant was abrogated in the absence of GPA1 (Fig. 4A), suggesting that RGS1 acts through GPA1 to regulate cell division in the primary root. Both rgs1 and agb1 mutants had increased cell production in the primary root, but no additive or synergistic effects were observed in rgs1 agb1 and rgs1 gpa1 agb1 double and triple mutants (Fig. 4A), indicating that RGS1 acts in the same pathway with the heterotrimeric G-protein-complex genes. Again, while the focus here is on root cell proliferation, for completeness sake we extended our investigation to aerial phenotypes. For all other scorable traits, the gpa1-4 and agb1-2 mutants were epistatic to the rgs1-2 allele (Fig. 5 ). [[FIGURE]] Previously, we proposed a model in which AGB1 acts downstream of GPA1 and negatively regulates lateral root formation (CITATION). Here we analyzed gpa1 agb1 double mutant and transgenic lines overexpressing GPA1 or AGB1 in agb1 or gpa1 mutant backgrounds, respectively, to test this model. The opposite phenotypes of gpa1 and agb1 single mutants in lateral root formation permitted a robust epistasis analysis. The gpa1 agb1 double mutant phenocopied the agb1 single mutant lateral root phenotype (Table II, compare 1–4), indicating that the agb1-2 allele is epistatic to gpa1-4. gpa1 mutants produced fewer lateral roots than the wild type. Overexpression of GPA1 in the gpa1-4 mutant restored the number of lateral roots in the mutant to the wild-type level (Table II, 6), indicating that the GPA1 transgene was functional. We observed an increased number of lateral roots when GPA1 was overexpressed in the wild-type background (Table II, compare 1 and 5). However, overexpression of GPA1 in the agb1 or gpa1 agb1 mutant backgrounds did not further increase the number of lateral roots of these mutants (Table II, 7 and 8), indicating that GPA1 acts through AGB1. The most likely explanation of this observation is that overexpression of GPA1 sequesters AGB1 into the heterotrimeric complex. Overexpression of AGB1 complemented the agb1 mutant phenotype of excessive lateral root formation (Table II, 11), indicating that the AGB1 transgene was functional. When AGB1 was overexpressed, a decrease in lateral root formation was observed compared to the no-transgene controls, regardless of the presence or absence of GPA1 (Table II, 10 and 12). Because loss of function of AGB1 promotes lateral root formation while overexpression of AGB1 inhibits it, we conclude that AGB1 is a negative modulator of lateral root formation. These results also support the notion that AGB1 acts downstream of GPA1 and that AGB1 can function independently of GPA1 in regulating lateral root formation. Moreover, an increase in the activated form of GPA1 through a loss-of-function allele of rgs1 did not affect the lateral root formation, either in the wild-type background or in the gpa1 and agb1 single or double mutant backgrounds (Fig. 4B), indicating that the interaction of RGS1 and the heterotrimeric G-protein complex may not be required for the regulation of lateral root formation. Taken together, the data of gpa1 and agb1 single and double mutants and of transgenic lines overexpressing GPA1 and AGB1 in different mutant backgrounds support a testable model in which AGB1 acts downstream of GPA1 to inhibit lateral root formation.
!~MM~! All mutants Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) are in the Col background (Col-0). T-DNA insertion mutant alleles of GPA1, gpa1-3 and gpa1-4, were used as described by CITATION. The T-DNA insertion mutant allele of AGB1, agb1-2, has been described by CITATION. gpa1 agb1 double mutants were generated by crossing gpa1-3 or gpa1-4 to agb1-2, and plants homozygous for both gpa1-3 or gpa1-4 and agb1-2 loci were identified from the F2 progeny by PCR genotyping using gene-specific primers flanking the T-DNA insertion sites and a T-DNA left-border primer (5′-GGCAATCAGCTGTTGCCCGTCTCACTGGTG-3′). The gpa1 agb1 double mutants were confirmed by reverse transcription (RT)-PCR analysis. We made all mutant genotypes publicly available through the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center stock center. The null allele of RGS1, rgs1-2, is described by CITATION. Double or triple mutants among rgs1-2, gpa1-4, and agb1-2 were isolated from the F2 progeny from a cross between rgs1-2 mutant and gpa1-4 agb1-2 double mutant by PCR genotyping using gene-specific primers flanking the T-DNA insertion sites and a T-DNA left-border primer (5′-GGCAATCAGCTGTTGCCCGTCTCACTGGTG-3′). For clarity, double or triple mutants rgs1 gpa1, rgs1 agb1, and rgs1 gpa1 agb1 refer to rgs1-2 gpa1-4, rgs1-2 agb1-2, and rgs1-2 gpa1-4 agb1-2, respectively. GPA1 and AGB1 transcript levels in the shoots and roots of 7-d-old, light-grown wild-type seedlings or in the whole seedlings of 35S:AGB1 transgenic lines were determined by quantitative real-time PCR. GPA1 transcripts were amplified using primers GPA1 RT-FW (5′-AGAAGTTTGAGGAGTTATATTACCAG-3′) and GPA1 RT-RV (5′-AAGGCCAGCCTCCAGTAA-3′). AGB1 transcripts were amplified using primers AGB1 RT-FW (5′-CTGCTGATGTACTAAGCGTCTCA-3′) and AGB1 RT-RV (5′-CTGCATGTTCCATCGTCTGA-3′). The GPA1 and AGB1 transcript levels were normalized against ACTIN2 transcripts, which were amplified using primers Actin2 RT-FW (5′-CCAGAAGGATGCATATGTTGGTGA-3′) and Actin2 RT-RV (5′-GAGGAGCCTCGGTAAGAAGA-3′). The real-time PCR was performed using the MJ MiniOpticon real-time PCR system (Bio-Rad Laboratories) and IQ SYBR Green Supermix (Bio-Rad Laboratories). The entire open-reading frames of GPA1 (At2g26300) and AGB1 (At4g34460) were amplified by PCR from a cDNA library made from seedlings grown in light for 10 d, cloned into the pENTR/D-TOPO vector (Invitrogen), and then subcloned into Gateway plant transformation destination binary vector pB2GW7 (CITATION) by LR recombination reactions. The construction of GPA1-CFP fusion has been described previously (CITATION). The coding region of the enhanced CFP (CLONTECH) was inserted in the first loop (between amino acids 97 and 98) of GPA1 and moved into the plant destination binary vector pGWB2 (Research Institute of Molecular Genetics). For the construction of the AGB1-YFP fusion, AGB1 was moved into the Gateway plant destination binary vector pGWB42 (Research Institute of Molecular Genetics). In these constructs, expression of GPA1, AGB1, GPA1-CFP, and YFP-AGB1 was driven by the 35S promoter of the Cauliflower mosaic virus. All constructs were transformed into Arabidopsis plants (Col-0) or Arabidopsis suspension cells by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation (CITATION; CITATION). Both 35S:GPA1 and 35S:AGB1 constructs were also transformed into gpa1-4, agb1-2, and gpa1-4 agb1-2 mutant backgrounds. Relative expression of GPA1 was quantitated by immunoblot analysis. Briefly, approximately 20 10-d-old, light-grown seedlings were ground into powder under liquid nitrogen. Total protein was isolated by incubating the tissues with 100 μL of freshly made lysis buffer (50 mm Tris, 50 mm NaCl, 5 mm EGTA, 2 mm dithiothreitol, 1% Triton X-100, and 1× protease inhibitor cocktail [Sigma], pH 7.5) at 4°C for 30 min, followed by rocking at 4°C for another 30 min. Total proteins in the supernatant were collected by centrifuging at 14,000 rpm for 15 min at 4°C. Protein samples (30 μg per well) were separated by SDS-PAGE, electroblotted onto polyvinylidene difluoride membrane, and immunoblotted with 1:2,000 anti-GPA1 peptide antibodies (serum no. 9572, rabbit polyclonal antiserum directed against a peptide representing the last 15 amino acids of GPA1). AGB1 transcript levels in 35S:AGB1 transgenic lines were determined by quantitative real-time PCR described above. For petri-dish-based phenotypic analyses, wild-type and mutant seeds were sterilized, sown in petri dishes containing one-half-strength Murashige and Skoog basal medium with Gamborg's vitamins (ICN Biomedicals), 1% Suc, 0.5% phytoagar (Research Products International), adjusted to pH 5.7, and treated at 4°C in the dark for 3 d, then moved to a growth chamber with 23°C and light intensity of approximately 100 μmol m−2 s−1. For the phenotypic analysis of 2-d-old, dark-grown seedlings, the petri dishes were wrapped in aluminum foil and placed in the darkness at 23°C. For soil-based phenotypic analysis, wild-type and mutant plants were either grown in an Arabidopsis growth chamber under short-day conditions (8 h [light]/16 h [dark]) for the observation of leaf phenotype, or grown in the greenhouse (12 h [light]/12 h [dark]) for the observation of flower and silique phenotype. Seeds from wild type, mutants, and transgenic lines sown in petri dishes were grown vertically under constant light conditions (100 μmol m−2 s−1), and the positions of the root tips were recorded daily. Rates of primary root growth were calculated over 3-d periods from day 3 to day 6. Seedlings were sampled at day 6, fixed, and cleared in chloral hydrate solution (chloral hydrate:glycerol:water = 8:2:1). The lengths of about 20 cortex cells in the differentiation zone of each root were measured using a Zeiss Axiovert 200M DIC microscope (Carl Zeiss) equipped with a digital image acquisition and processing system (AxioVision Release 4.2). Cell production was calculated as the rate of root growth divided by the average cortex cell length. In separate experiments, the seedlings were grown for an additional 3 d, and the numbers of lateral root primordia and lateral roots were measured from each plant under a dissecting microscope. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers NC_003071, NC_003075, and NC_003074.
