!~ABS~! Karyogamy, or nuclear fusion, is essential for sexual reproduction. In angiosperms, karyogamy occurs three times: twice during double fertilization of the egg cell and the central cell and once during female gametophyte development when the two polar nuclei fuse to form the diploid central cell nucleus. The molecular mechanisms controlling karyogamy are poorly understood. We have identified nine female gametophyte mutants in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), nuclear fusion defective1 (nfd1) to nfd9, that are defective in fusion of the polar nuclei. In the nfd1 to nfd6 mutants, failure of fusion of the polar nuclei is the only defect detected during megagametogenesis. nfd1 is also affected in karyogamy during double fertilization. Using transmission electron microscopy, we showed that nfd1 nuclei fail to undergo fusion of the outer nuclear membranes. nfd1 contains a T-DNA insertion in RPL21M that is predicted to encode the mitochondrial 50S ribosomal subunit L21, and a wild-type copy of this gene rescues the mutant phenotype. Consistent with the predicted function of this gene, an NFD1-green fluorescent protein fusion protein localizes to mitochondria and the NFD1/RPL21M gene is expressed throughout the plant. The nfd3, nfd4, nfd5, and nfd6 mutants also contain T-DNA insertions in genes predicted to encode proteins that localize to mitochondria, suggesting a role for this organelle in nuclear fusion.
!~RES~! During the angiosperm life cycle, karyogamy occurs first during female gametophyte development when the polar nuclei fuse (Fig. 1) and later during fertilization when the sperm nuclei fuse with the female gametophyte's egg and central cell nuclei. Therefore, mutations affecting karyogamy should affect the female gametophyte and, as a consequence, should result in segregation distortion and reduced seed set (CITATION). Using these criteria, we previously identified a large collection of female gametophyte mutants (CITATION). Within this mutant collection were nine mutants with defects in fusion of the polar nuclei. We have named these mutants nfd1 to nfd9. Analysis by confocal laser-scanning microscopy (CLSM) of the female gametophytes from the nfd1 to nfd9 mutants is summarized in Table I . In all nine mutants, the polar nuclei migrated properly but failed to fuse, indicating that nuclear congression is not affected (Fig. 2, A and B ). In six of the mutants (nfd1–nfd6), failure of fusion of the polar nuclei was the only defect observed during female gametophyte development. In contrast, in the other three mutants (nfd7–nfd9), additional defects were observed (Table I). Segregation analysis of the nfd1 to nfd9 mutants is summarized in Table II and indicates that mutant alleles affect both the female and male gametophytes. The remainder of this article is focused on the nfd1 to nfd6 mutants that are affected specifically in fusion of the polar nuclei during female gametophyte development. Summary of CLSM analysis of the nfd1 to nfd9 mutants FG, Female gametophyte; PN, polar nuclei; WT, wild type. [[FIGURE]] Transmission of the nfd1 to nfd9 mutations We next asked whether the nfd1 to nfd6 mutants are also affected in karyogamy during fertilization. The fertilization process in Arabidopsis wild type has been described by CITATION. Pollen tubes enter the female gametophyte by growing into one of the synergid cells. This synergid cell undergoes cell death just before or upon pollen tube entry. The pollen tube then releases its contents into the degenerating synergid cell, and the sperm cells migrate to and fuse with the egg cell and central cell (plasmogamy). Plasmogamy triggers changes in the polarity and morphology of the egg cell (Fig. 2C). Following plasmogamy, the sperm nuclei can be observed transiently within the egg cell and the central cell. The sperm nuclei then fuse with the egg and central cell nuclei (karyogamy) to produce the diploid zygote and triploid endosperm nuclei, respectively. One to 2 h after karyogamy, the endosperm nucleus divides once to produce a binucleate endosperm. By 18 h after pollination, the endosperm consists of four to eight nuclei and the zygote remains undivided (Fig. 2C; CITATION). To determine whether the nfd mutants are affected in karyogamy during fertilization, we pollinated pistils from heterozygous mutants with wild-type pollen and analyzed the ovules at 18 h after pollination. In nfd1, synergid cell degeneration occurred normally and egg cell morphology was altered as it is following plasmogamy in the wild type (Fig. 2, D and F). These features indicate that pollen tube guidance, synergid cell death, pollen tube entry, release of pollen tube contents, sperm cell migration, and plasmogamy occur normally in nfd1 female gametophytes. However, in contrast to wild-type female gametophytes at this time point, sperm nuclei were persistent within both the egg cell (Fig. 2F) and the central cell (Fig. 2E), and the endosperm was undivided (Fig. 2D). These data suggest that nfd1 female gametophytes are defective in karyogamy during fertilization. The other five mutants (nfd2–nfd6) exhibited defects before sperm release, precluding observation of karyogamy during fertilization. The unfused sperm nuclei present in nfd1 female gametophytes could be due to either a defect in karyogamy during fertilization or a delay in the fertilization process. To distinguish between these possibilities, we analyzed nfd1 female gametophytes at 24 and 48 h after pollination. In the wild type, the majority of seeds have an undivided zygote and eight endosperm nuclei at 24 h after pollination (CITATION), and a globular-stage embryo and >50 endosperm nuclei at 48 h after pollination (CITATION). In nfd1 at 24 h after pollination, sperm nuclei were still observed within the egg and central cells (data not shown). At 48 h after pollination, nfd1 embryo sacs were undergoing senescence, which is an indication that fertilization had not been completed. The senescence obscured observation of persistent sperm nuclei; however, mutant female gametophytes did not contain developing embryos or endosperm (data not shown), as would be the case if the nfd1 defect were due to developmental delay. Together, these data indicate that nfd1 female gametophytes have a defect in karyogamy during fertilization in both the egg cell and the central cell. To determine which step of karyogamy is affected in nfd1 female gametophytes, we used TEM to analyze the unfused polar nuclei in this mutant. The nuclear fusion process has been characterized using TEM in a wide variety of plant species (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). During both megagametogenesis and fertilization, karyogamy occurs between intact nuclei and begins with contact of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membranes that are continuous with the outer nuclear membranes of the two nuclei. Fusion of the membranes results in outer nuclear membranes that are continuous. Finally, the inner nuclear membranes come into contact and merge, resulting in a mixing of the nucleoplasm and chromosomes. We analyzed the unfused polar nuclei in nfd1 female gametophytes at the terminal developmental stage (stage FG7). Consistent with our CLSM analysis, the two polar nuclei were adjacent to each other (Fig. 3A ), indicating that there were no defects in nuclear congression. The nuclear envelopes were spherical except at their apposing faces, where the nuclear membranes were relatively flat (Fig. 3). The outer nuclear membranes were not in contact with each other. A gap ranging in size from approximately 50 to 600 nm existed between the two nuclei along the entire length of the interface (Fig. 3B). These observations suggest that nfd1 female gametophytes are defective specifically in the initial step of nuclear fusion, fusion of the outer nuclear membranes. [[FIGURE]] As shown in Table II, transmission of the nfd1 mutation is also reduced through the male gametophyte. To determine whether nfd1 affects male gametophyte development or a subsequent step (e.g. nuclear fusion), we analyzed mature pollen using CLSM. As shown in Figure 4B , anthers from nfd1/NFD1 contained numerous collapsed pollen grains. On average (n = 4 plants), 43% of pollen grains from nfd1/NFD1 plants were collapsed (n = 400). By contrast, wild-type anthers contained only 2% collapsed pollen grains (n = 200). These data indicate that the nfd1 mutation affects male gametophyte development. [[FIGURE]] The nfd1 mutant was identified in a screen of T-DNA-mutagenized lines. To identify the gene affected in the nfd1 mutant, we determined the T-DNA insertion site using thermal asymmetric interlaced (TAIL)-PCR (CITATION). The T-DNA is inserted into gene At4g30925 in nfd1. To determine whether the female gametophyte defect is due to disruption of At4g30925, we introduced a wild-type copy of this gene into the nfd1 mutant. We identified T1 plants heterozygous for nfd1 and hemizygous for the rescue construct and crossed these as females with wild-type males. In the F1 generation, nfd1/NFD1 and NFD1/NFD1 progeny were present in a ratio of approximately 1:2. In addition, we generated plants homozygous for the nfd1 allele and homozygous for the rescue construct; these plants had full seed set. These data indicate that disruption of the At4g30925 gene is responsible for the female gametophyte defect in nfd1 mutants. At4g30925 corresponds to RPL21M, which is predicted to encode the mitochondrial 50S ribosomal subunit L21. As shown in Figure 5 , this gene spans 1,819 bp, contains an open reading frame of 813 bp, and encodes a protein of 270 amino acids. The predicted protein contains a region with high similarity (36% identical and 56% similar) to the L21p protein of Escherichia coli (Fig. 5B). Analysis of this protein by the TargetP algorithm (CITATION) predicts mitochondrial localization and NH2-terminal peptide cleavage after amino acid 68. Consistent with these predictions, RPL21M has an overrepresentation of Arg, Ala, and Ser (23/68) and an underrepresentation of Asp and Glu residues (3/68; Fig. 5B) in the NH2-terminus of the protein, which is typical of proteins targeted to mitochondria (CITATION; CITATION). The gene family containing RPL21M includes only one other gene within the Arabidopsis genome, At1g35680, which is predicted to encode the plastid 50S ribosomal L21 subunit based on the presence of chloroplast-sorting motifs (TargetP) and similarity to the spinach (Spinacia oleracea) plastid RPL21 gene (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] As shown in Figure 5A, the left and right borders of the T-DNA in nfd1 are inserted into the first and second introns of At4g30925, respectively, and are associated with a 138-bp deletion that removes the entire second exon, which encodes amino acids 146 to 173. This observation suggests that nfd1 is a null allele. However, we were not able to confirm this prediction because we were unable to obtain a line homozygous for the nfd1 mutation and, thus, were not able to analyze NFD1 expression in nfd1 mutants. To determine where NFD1 is expressed within the plant, we performed reverse transcription (RT)-PCR with RNA from various organs. As shown in Figure 6 , a signal was detected in all tissues tested, including roots, stems, leaves, young flowers, mature-stage pistils, and siliques (Fig. 6). These data indicate that NFD1 is expressed throughout the plant. [[FIGURE]] To determine the subcellular localization of NFD1, we analyzed transgenic Arabidopsis plants containing a protein fusion construct in which the NFD1 promoter and the entire NFD1 open reading frame were fused to a green fluorescent protein (GFP) coding sequence (NFD1-GFP). In transgenic plants containing the NFD1-GFP construct, GFP was detected in multiple small intracellular compartments (Fig. 7A ). This pattern colocalized with MitoTracker, a mitochondrion-specific dye (Fig. 7, B and C). NFD1-GFP expression was detected in all organs examined, including roots, leaves, embryos, and ovules (data not shown). These data suggest that NFD1 protein localizes to mitochondria, consistent with its predicted function as the mitochondrial 50S ribosomal subunit L21. [[FIGURE]] We used TAIL-PCR to identify the T-DNA insertion sites in the nfd2 to nfd6 mutants (Table III ). We then performed linkage studies and showed that all of the identified T-DNAs were linked to the mutant phenotypes. Four of the genes (NFD3, NFD4, NFD5, and NFD6) encode proteins predicted to localize to the mitochondrion (Table III). NFD3 is predicted to encode the 30S ribosomal subunit S11, and NFD5 and NFD6 do not have significant sequence similarity to any known proteins. NFD4 is predicted to encode a protein that is nodulin-like. NFD2 is predicted to encode a protein that contains a ribonuclease III domain and to localize to the endomembrane system. T-DNA insertion sites in the nfd1 to nfd6 mutants ND, Not determined.
!~MM~! The isolate numbers for the mutant lines described in this article are as follows: nfd1, G430 (fem55); nfd2, G683 (fem56); nfd3, LE156 (fem60); nfd4, DO2566 (fem113); nfd5, DO1861 (fem118); nfd6, DO1867 (fem119); nfd7, DO43; nfd8, DO1463; and nfd9, DO2399. Seeds were sterilized in a solution of 50% commercial bleach and 0.1% Tween 20 and germinated on plates containing 0.5× Murashige and Skoog salts (M–9274; Sigma), 0.05% MES, 0.5% Suc, and 0.8% phytagar (Life Technologies). Ten-day-old seedlings were transferred to Scott's Redi-Earth and grown under 24-h illumination. T-DNA constructs were introduced into Agrobacterium strain LBA4404 by electroporation. Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia) plants were transformed using a modified floral-dip procedure (CITATION). Transformed progeny were selected by germinating surface-sterilized T1 seeds on growth medium containing antibiotics. Resistant seedlings were transplanted to soil after 10 d of growth. Reciprocal crosses were carried out between each heterozygous mutant and wild type as indicated in Table II. F1 seed was collected and germinated on medium containing 50 μg/mL kanamycin. Resistant and sensitive plants were scored as heterozygous and homozygous wild type, respectively. CLSM analysis of ovules was performed as described previously (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION) with use of a Zeiss LSM510 microscope as a modification. For analysis of female gametophytes at the terminal developmental stage (stage FG7), we emasculated flowers from heterozygous mutant plants at stage 12c (CITATION), waited 24 to 40 h, and harvested the specimens for fixation. For analysis after pollination, we emasculated flowers from heterozygous mutant plants at stage 12c, waited 24 h, pollinated with wild-type pollen, waited 18 to 48 h, and harvested the siliques for fixation. CLSM analysis of pollen grains was performed as follows. Flowers at stage 13 (CITATION) were harvested and placed into a fixation solution of 4% glutaraldehyde and 10 mm cacodylate in water for 2 h. The flowers were then dehydrated in an ethanol series (10%, 20%, 40%, 60%, 80%) for 10 min each followed by 95% ethanol overnight. The flowers were incubated for 20 min in a 2:1 solution of benzyl benzoate and benzyl alcohol and then placed into immersion oil where the stamens were removed. The stamens were then placed onto microscope slides in a drop of immersion oil. Microscopic analysis was performed as described for ovules. TEM analysis was performed as described previously (CITATION). Three nfd1 female gametophytes at the terminal developmental stage were analyzed. For each gametophyte analyzed, at least five serial sections were observed to determine whether the outer nuclear envelopes were in contact. We performed TAIL-PCR (CITATION) to identify the sequences flanking the T-DNA insertions. We then performed PCR reactions using T-DNA-specific and genome-specific primers to verify the T-DNA flanking sequences. The T-DNA-specific primers used were L1 (5′-CTCAATGCAAAAGGGGAACG-3′) for the T-DNA left border and RB2 (5′-CATAACGTCGACTCCCTTAATTCTC-3′) for the T-DNA right border. For nfd1, primer L1 was used with gene-specific primer RPL21M-LB2 (5′-ACCGGCGGAGAAAGTGGAAGAG-3′) and primer RB2 was paired with gene-specific primer RPL21M-RP (5′-TGCCGAGCCCAATAGAAGAAC-3′). For nfd2, primer L1 was used with gene-specific primer At1G24450-rb (5′-AGATCCCGACGACGAAGACAAGA-3′). For nfd3, primer L1 was used with gene-specific primer At1G31817-rb (5′-TCCCGTGTTTGATAAGCCTGAA-3′). For nfd4, primer L1 was used with gene-specific primers At1g31470-lp (5′-CGAGCCTCACTGTGTTCCCTTCC-3′) and At1G31470-rp (5′-TTAACCCGTCGTCGTCCAATCTAT-3′). For nfd5, primer L1 was used with gene-specific primer At1G19520-lp (5′-GAGCACAGGGTCAAAAGAGAAAC-3′) and primer RB2 was used with gene-specific primer At1G19520-rp (5′-GTCAATGGCGGCACTGGAT-3′). For nfd6, primer L1 was used with gene-specific primer At2G20585-lp (5′-TTTTTAATCGCCACCAAGTC-3′) and primer RB was used with gene-specific primer At2G20585-rp (5′-GCGAAGCGGCCAGTAGAAGC-3′). In nfd1, the T-DNA is associated with a 137-bp deletion that spans from +514 to +651 bp relative to the predicted start of transcription of gene At4g30925. In nfd2, only the flanking sequence adjacent to the left border of the T-DNA insertion was identified and the T-DNA insertion site is 45 bp, 5′ of the predicted transcription start site of gene At1G24450. For nfd3, only the flanking sequence adjacent to the left border of the T-DNA insertion was identified and the T-DNA insertion site is at +280 bp relative to the predicted transcription start site of gene At1G31817. For nfd4, the T-DNA insertion had two left borders and the T-DNA insertion site is associated with a 22-bp deletion in the second exon from +913 to +935 bp relative to the ATG of At1g31470. For nfd5, the T-DNA insertion site is associated with a 65-bp deletion that includes the first 11 bp of the 5′-untranslated region (UTR) of gene At1G19520 and an additional 54 bp of the 5′ flanking sequence. For nfd6, the T-DNA insertion site is associated with a 21-bp deletion in the 5′-UTR of gene At2g20585 from +33 to +55 bp relative to the predicted start of transcription. NFD1 gene structure is based on comparison of the genome sequence and the sequences of two previously reported cDNAs (CERES:7876 and EMBL:BT005870.1; http://mips.gsf.de/cgi-bin/proj/thal/search_gene?code=at4g30925). Molecular complementation was performed using a 2,800-bp DNA fragment containing the NFD1 genomic coding sequence (1,461 bp) along with 474 bp of sequence upstream of the translational start codon and 865 bp of sequence downstream of the stop codon. This DNA fragment was amplified by PCR using the primers nfd1F2 (5′-GCTGCAGCCGCTCCAACATC-3′; contains a native PstI site) and nfd1R2 (5′-TTGAGTAACGCACTGAGCTTC-3′). This 2.8-kb PCR product was TOPO cloned into vector pPCR II (Invitrogen) in an orientation such that the PstI sites within the vector and the PCR product were on opposite ends to make plasmid NFD1-2.8 TOPO. The PstI-PstI fragment within NFD1-2.8 TOPO was subcloned into pCAMBIA1300, producing plasmid NFD1-2.8-pCAMBIA. pCAMBIA1300 contains a marker gene conferring resistance to hygromycin. NFD1-2.8-pCAMBIA was introduced into Arabidopsis plants as described above and transformed plants were selected by germinating seeds on growth medium containing 15 μg/mL hygromycin. Hygromycin-resistant plants containing the nfd1 allele were identified by PCR by using primers oligo-L1 (discussed above) and RPL21M-LB2 (discussed above). T1 plants containing the rescue construct at a single locus were identified based upon a 3:1 ratio of hygromycin-resistant to hygromycin-sensitive plants in the T2 generation. Plants heterozygous for the nfd1 allele and hemizygous for the rescue construct at a single locus were crossed as females with wild-type males and the F1 seed was germinated on growth medium containing 50 μg/mL kanamycin. We observed 53 kanamycin-resistant (scored as being genotype nfd1/NFD1) and 78 kanamycin-sensitive (scored as being genotype NFD1/NFD1) progeny. Plants homozygous for both the nfd1 mutation and the rescuing construct were obtained by identifying F1s (from the double heterozygote) whose progeny was both 100% kanamycin and 100% hygromycin resistant. The NFD1-GFP fusion construct has GFP inserted 30 bp upstream of the stop codon of the NFD1 gene. As a first step in cloning this gene, we generated three PCR products. An upstream fragment was amplified using primers FEM55GFPF1 (5′-CAGGTATACTTTATAACTCC-3′; includes a native AccI site) and FEM55GFPR1 (5′-CTCGCCCTTGCTCACCATAACAGCTTCTTTCGAAGG-3′; contains 18 bp of sequence found in GFP). A downstream fragment was amplified using primers FEM55GFPF2 (5′-ATGGACGAGCTGTACAAGACAGAACAGACGAAGGCT-3′; contains 18 bp of sequence found in GFP) and FEM55R2 (5′-TTGAGTAACGCACTGAGCTTC-3′). The GFP insert was amplified from pBI-GFP(S65T) (CITATION) using primers GFPfuseF1 (5′-ATGGTGAGCAAGGGCGAG-3′) and GFPfuseR1 (5′-CTTGTACAGCTCGTCCAT-3′). The GFP fragment contained the entire GFP open reading frame, excluding the stop codon. The three PCR fragments were gel purified using QIAquick spin columns and then used as the template for a PCR reaction using primers FEM55GFPF1 and FEM55R2, which resulted in a 1.8-kb fusion product containing a GFP and FEM55 sequence. This product was TOPO cloned and sequenced to verify that no PCR errors existed. The TOPO clone was then cut with AccI and XhoI and inserted into NFD1-2.8/Topo at AccI-XhoI to create NFD1-GFP/Topo. Finally, NFD1-GFP/Topo was cut with PstI and was subcloned into pCAMBIA1300 at PstI to create NFD1-GFP/pCambia. Expression of GFP and MitoTracker stain was detected as described previously (CITATION), with the modification that roots were mounted in 1× Murashige and Skoog salts. Tissue was harvested from plants and placed immediately into liquid nitrogen. Pistils were harvested from the oldest stage 12 flower (CITATION) on each plant. Floral cluster tissue includes the inflorescence meristem and flowers at stages 1 to 10 (CITATION). Silique tissue includes siliques at 1 to 2 d after pollination. Leaf tissue includes leaves of sizes 5 to 12 mm. Roots were harvested from seedlings at 11 d after germination. Floral stem tissue includes internodes from 4-week-old plants. RNA was extracted from these tissues using the Qiagen RNeasy kit following the manufacturer's instructions (www.qiagen.com). DNA was removed from the RNAs using the Ambion TURBO DNA-free DNase kit following the manufacturer's instructions. Following DNase treatment, RNA samples were repurified using the Qiagen RNeasy kit following the manufacturer's instructions. Aliquots of RNA (1 μg) were reverse transcribed using the RETROscript kit (Ambion) following the manufacturer's instructions. The PCR reaction mixture consisted of 0.5 μL of cDNA, 0.5 μm primers, 0.1 μL of Biolase DNA polymerase (E & K Scientific; www.eandkscientific.com), and 1× standard PCR reaction mix. The PCR primers used to detect the NFD1 transcript were RPL21M-RP (5′-TGCCGAGCCCAATAGAAGAAC-3′) and RPL21M-LB2 (5′-ACCGGCGGAGAAAGTGGAAGAG-3′). The PCR primers used to detect ACTIN transcripts were ACT.ConF (5′-GATTTGGCATCACACTTTCTACAATG-3′) and ACT.ConR (5′-GTTCCACCACTGAGCACAATG-3′). These primers are predicted to anneal to ACTIN1 to 4, 7, 8, 11, and 12. PCR was performed using a PTC-200 thermal cycler (MJ Research). The PCR program consisted of a first step of denaturation and polymerase activation (94°C for 2 min) followed by 30 cycles of denaturation for NFD1 and 25 cycles of denaturation for ACTIN (94°C for 30 s), annealing (55°C for 5 s), and extension (68°C for 30 s). We used pfam 19.0 (http://pfam.wustl.edu/hmmsearch.shtml) to identify protein motifs. We used TargetP (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP) to identify predicted protein localization signals/motifs. We used the MegAlign module of the DNAStar Lasergene suite to align sequences; specifically, we used the Lipman-Pearson algorithm for the alignment of protein sequences and the Wilbur-Lipman algorithm for the alignment of the nucleotide sequences. For each mutant line, a plant hemizygous for the T-DNA insertion was crossed with wild-type pollen, and F1 seed was collected and plated on germination medium containing 50 μg/mL kanamycin. One hundred kanamycin-resistant F1 progeny were analyzed by PCR, using the primers described above, for the presence of the T-DNA insert that had been identified by TAIL-PCR. All plants that were kanamycin resistant contained the T-DNA insertion. All images were processed for publication using Adobe Photoshop 7.0 and Adobe Illustrator 10.0 (Adobe Systems). The gene structure and coding sequence of NFD1 is based on two previously reported cDNAs (CERES:7876 and EMBL:BT005870.1; http://mips.gsf.de/cgi-bin/proj/thal/search_gene?code=at4g30925). The GenBank accession number for the NFD1 protein sequence is NP_567861.1. The Munich Information Center for Protein Sequences (MIPS) number for the protein sequence of NFD1 in this article is At4g30925. The Arabidopsis Genome Initiative (AGI) number for the protein sequence of NFD1 in this article is At4g30930. The GenBank accession number for the E. coli protein L21 is BAB37488.1.
