!~ABS~! Cytokinins are a class of phytohormones that play a critical role in plant growth and development. sob5-D, an activation-tagging mutant, shows phenotypes typical of transgenic plants expressing the Agrobacterium tumefaciens isopentenyltransferase (ipt) gene that encodes the enzyme catalyzing the first step of cytokinin biosynthesis. The sob5-D mutant phenotypes are caused by over-expression of a novel gene, SOB5. Sequence analysis places SOB5 in a previously uncharacterized family of plant-specific proteins. A translational fusion between SOB5 and the green fluorescent protein reporter was localized in the cytoplasm as well as associated with the plasma membrane when transiently expressed in onion epidermal cells. Analysis of transgenic plants harboring an SOB5:SOB5–β-glucuronidase (GUS) translational fusion under the control of the SOB5 promoter region showed GUS activity in vegetative tissues (hydathodes and trichomes of leaves, shoot meristems and roots) as well as in floral tissues (pistil tips, developing anthers and sepal vasculature). Cytokinin quantification analysis revealed that adult sob5-D plants accumulated higher levels of trans-zeatin riboside, trans-zeatin riboside monophosphate and isopentenyladenine 9-glucoside when compared to the wild-type. Consistent with this result, AtIPT3 and AtIPT7 were found to be up-regulated in a tissue-specific manner in sob5-D mutants. Physiological analysis of the sob5-D mutant demonstrated reduced responsiveness to exogenous cytokinin in both root-elongation and callus-formation assays. Taken together, our data suggest a role for the novel gene SOB5 in cytokinin-mediated plant development.
!~RES~! In an activation-tagging screen of approximately 7000 T1 seedlings (primary transformants), we identified and cloned the genes causing six independent, gain-of-function mutations that suppress the long-hypocotyl phenotype of phyB-4. This study focuses on the fifth of these mutants identified in our lab, sob5-D. Segregation and Southern blot analysis indicated that there was a single-locus T-DNA insertion in sob5-D phyB-4 and this T-DNA insertion was genetically linked to the short-hypocotyl mutant phenotype (data not shown). Although sob5-D phyB-4 had a dramatically shorter hypocotyl than phyB-4 when grown under white light (Figure 1a), hypocotyls of the dark-grown double mutant were etiolated (Figure 1a), demonstrating that this mutation does not confer dwarfing in all growth conditions. Adult sob5-D phyB-4 plants were also smaller than the wild-type (Figure1b). Seedling and adult phenotypes of sob5-D were unaffected when crossed away from the phyB-4 mutation (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Genomic DNA adjacent to the mutating T-DNA in sob5-D phyB-4 was isolated by plasmid rescue. Sequencing and subsequent BLAST analysis (CITATION) of a portion of the rescued genomic DNA showed that the site of T-DNA insertion was on chromosome V in a region covered by BAC T22D6. The four enhancer elements were inserted 957 nucleotides 5′ to the transcriptional start of the putative open reading frame At5g08150 (Figure 1c). RT-PCR indicated that At5g08150 was over-expressed in the sob5-D phyB-4 mutant (Figure 1d). To confirm that the sob5-D mutant phenotype is caused by the over-expression of At5g08150, phyB-4 plants were transformed with genomic DNA containing At5g08150 ORF and its promoter region along with the four enhancers. Transgenic lines (sob5-OX phyB4) with increased SOB5 expression have recapitulated the original sob5-D phyB-4 phenotype (Figure 1a,b,d), demonstrating that over-expression of At5g08150, SOB5, is responsible for suppressing the long-hypocotyl phenotype of phyB-4 in the sob5-D phyB-4 double mutant. Adult sob5-D plants were dwarfed relative to the wild-type and exhibited reduced apical dominance (Figure 2a). These plants had curled-down, dark-green leaves, which were smaller in size when compared to the wild-type (Figure 2b). The root system of sob5-D was under-developed, both in the length of the primary root and in the number of lateral roots (Figure 2d,g). Under standard greenhouse conditions, the sob5-D mutant displayed delayed senescence, with a life cycle approximately 1–2 weeks longer than wild-type plants (Figure 2c). [[FIGURE]] To test whether sob5-D’s mutant phenotype is caused by enhanced cytokinin levels, we grew sob5-D and wild-type seedlings on medium with or without cytokinin. The sob5-D seedling phenotype could largely be phenocopied by supplying wild-type seedlings with cytokinin (Figure 2e,f). Both sob5-D and cytokinin-treated wild-type seedlings showed epinastic cotyledons (Figure 2e) and inhibited root development, including shorter main roots and fewer lateral roots (Figure 2f,g). Compared with untreated seedlings, sob5-D seedlings treated with cytokinin were smaller in size and had shorter primary roots (Figure 2e,f), indicating that sob5-D still responded to exogenous cytokinin. The SOB5 gene has no introns and is predicted to encode a novel protein of 144 amino acids. Database searches revealed that two SOB five-like (SOFL) proteins of unknown function in Arabidopsis and two in rice shared conserved domains with SOB5. In addition, expressed sequence tags (ESTs) from different higher plant species, including rape (Brassica napus), apple (Malus x domestica) and poplar (Populus trichocarpa), were found to contain open reading frames with significant sequence similarity to SOB5 in the same region (Figure 3). The most pronounced sequence similarity was found at the N-terminus. All proteins contain the same first three N-terminal amino acids and two blocks of conserved domains separated by a stretch of less conserved amino acids. The most highly conserved motif, ESGWTMY, was found in the first domain of all nine sequences. The C-terminus of the aligned proteins showed significantly less sequence similarity (Figure 3a). [[FIGURE]] No strong homology to known signal sequences was identified in SOB5. To examine the intracellular distribution of this protein, its coding region was translationally fused to the green fluorescent protein (GFP) gene and the fusion protein was transiently expressed in onion epidermal cells. GFP distribution was examined with both fluorescence and bright-field microscopy. The fluorescence signal was found in the cytoplasm as well as associated with the plasma membrane of onion epidermal cells. No signal was detected in the nucleus (Figure 4). To determine whether the SOB5–GFP fusion was localized in the cell wall, plasmolysis was induced with 0.8 m mannitol. GFP signal was only present within the shrunken plasma membrane (Figure 4c,d), indicating that SOB5–GFP was not localized in the cell wall. [[FIGURE]] To obtain an overview of the endogenous expression pattern of SOB5, wild-type Arabidopsis plants were transformed with a construct encoding an SOB5–β-glucuronidase (GUS) translational fusion protein which was expressed using 870 bp of genomic DNA 5′ of the SOB5 open reading frame (SOB5:SOB5–GUS). Multiple T3 homozygous lines with single-locus insertions, which showed varying degrees of sob5-D mutant phenotype, were selected. The severity of the sob5-D phenotype for these lines correlated with their SOB5–GUS mRNA levels, indicating that the fusion protein is functional (Figure S1a,b). Histochemical analysis was conducted on three independent T3 lines that had wild-type phenotypes (Figure S1c). In vegetative tissues, GUS activity was present in the trichomes of rosette leaves, hydathodes of rosette and cauline leaves, shoot meristems, and throughout the entire root (Figure 5a–f). GUS staining for hydathodes in young and developing leaves was stronger than in mature, fully developed leaves (Figure 5e). For floral tissues, GUS activity was observed in the pistil tip, developing anthers and sepal vasculature (Figure 5g–j,l). As the flower matured, GUS activity in anthers decreased to below the limit of detection and only weak GUS activity was observed in the sepal vasculature (Figure 5i,j). Weak GUS staining was detected in the tips of developing siliques (Figure 5k) but not in mature ones (data not shown). Taken together, these data indicate that the expression level of SOB5 is higher in young and developing tissues than in mature ones. [[FIGURE]] Expression of the SOB5:SOB5–GUS translational fusion was also examined in 6-day-old seedlings grown in the dark or in continuous white light. This provided a means to assess whether there were any apparent effects of light upon the accumulation of SOB5. GUS staining was present in roots and hypocotyl–root junctions for both light- and dark-grown seedlings (Figure 5m,n). However, GUS staining was only observed in the hydathode region of cotyledons of light-grown seedlings (Figure 5m), but was present in the whole unopened cotyledons of dark-grown seedlings (Figure 5n), indicating that light can affect the accumulation of SOB5 in cotyledons. To test the hypothesis that the mutant phenotype of sob5-D is caused by increased endogenous cytokinin levels, the content of 26 isoprenoid cytokinins was measured in 6-week-old sob5-D and wild-type plants. There was a significant increase in the levels of trans-zeatin riboside (ZR) and trans-zeatin riboside monophosphate (ZMP), with 5.1- and 2.5- fold elevation in sob5-D, respectively, when compared to the wild-type. There was also a approximately threefold increase in the levels of N6-(Δ2-isopentenyl)adenine 9-glucoside (iP9G) in sob5-D plants relative to the wild-type (Figure 6). A slight, but significant, increase in accumulation in sob5-D plants compared to the wild-type was found in the cases of trans-zeatin 9-glucoside (Z9G), cis-zeatin 7-glucoside (cisZ7G) and N6-(Δ2-isopentenyl)adenosine (iPR). No other cytokinins exhibited significant changes in sob5-D (Figure 6). The content of dihydrozeatin derivatives (with the exception of dihydrozeatin 7-glucoside, DHZ7G) as well as cis-zeatin and its derivatives, cis-zeatin 9-glucoside and cis-zeatin O-glucoside, were close to or below the detection limit in both sob5-D and wild-type plants. [[FIGURE]] To further investigate whether SOB5’s function has some connection with cytokinin signal transduction, we examined the sensitivity of sob5-D and wild-type plants to exogenous cytokinins using two different procedures: root elongation (CITATION) and callus formation (CITATION). In the root-elongation assay, sob5-D and wild-type seedlings were grown on medium containing different concentrations of benzyladenine (BA). BA inhibited root growth for all the plants at concentrations of 10 nm and higher. Compared with wild-type plants, sob5-D showed the same trend of growth inhibition, but exhibited less sensitivity to BA, especially at 10 and 100 nm (Figure 7a). Consistent with these results, sob5-D root explants produced slightly less and smaller callus than control explants at 50 and 100 ng ml−1 kinetin in the callus formation assay (Figure 7b). [[FIGURE]] To further explore SOB5’s function, the expression of nine AtIPT genes was examined via RT-PCR in four types of tissue isolated from sob5-D and the wild-type: roots, rosette leaves of 2-week-old plants, rosette leaves of flowering plants, and flowers. Among these nine genes, AtIPT3 and AtIPT7 mRNA levels were up-regulated in rosette leaves of flowering sob5-D plants (Figure 8). AtIPT3 was also up-regulated in the flowers of sob5-D (Figure 8). No obvious changes were observed for the other AtIPT genes (data not shown). These data indicate that the over-expression of SOB5 results in elevated expression of a subset of AtIPT genes, which is consistent with the increased cytokinin levels in sob5-D. [[FIGURE]] Although two transposon insertion mutants, sob5-1 and sob5-2, were found for the SOB5 gene (N123099, NASC stock number GT8463, http://genetrap.cshl.org, CITATION; Figure 9a, Figure S2), neither of them had obvious mutant phenotypes (Figure S3a,b). These may not be null mutations, however, as neither insertion disrupts the conserved domains of SOFL proteins, and partial transcripts containing these domains could be detected in each mutant (Figure 9a, Figure S2). An alternative approach to investigate the loss of function of the SOB5 gene is to silence it by RNA interference (RNAi). Three low-complexity regions exist in SOB5 (Figure 9a), making it difficult to use the whole cDNA as the target sequence. There are also small regions showing similarity to other genes between low-complexity regions A and B. Thus, a 114 bp fragment specific to the SOB5 transcript was used as target for RNAi (Figure 9a). The steady-state transcript levels of SOB5 were reduced in the resulting transgenic plants, but no obvious mutant phenotypes were observed (Figure 9b, Figure S3c). [[FIGURE]] The lack of phenotypic changes for RNAi transgenic plants may be due to the possible functional redundancy between SOB5 and the two AtSOFL proteins, or insufficient reduction of SOB5 transcript level. To test the efficiency of the SOB5–RNAi construct, it was transformed into sob5-D plants. Some of the resulting transgenic plants exhibited a reduction in sob5-D mutant morphology (e.g. S2, Figure 9b), whereas others were nearly identical to the wild-type, (e.g. S3, Figure 9b). Further analysis indicated that the extent of the phenotypic reversion is negatively correlated with the steady-state mRNA level of SOB5 (Figure 9b,c). RT-PCR analysis also demonstrated that AtSOFL1 and AtSOFL2 transcript accumulation levels were not reduced by expression of the SOB5–RNAi construct (Figure 9b), indicating the specificity of SOB5–RNAi.
!~MM~! Columbia-0 (Col-0), the ecotype in which the activation-tagging mutant screen was performed, was used as the wild-type plant for further analysis. Unless otherwise noted, the media and growth conditions for all seedlings and plants were the same as described by CITATION. The activation-tagging mutant screen and plasmid rescue were performed as described by CITATION using the pDSK2-7 vector (CITATION). Southern blot analysis confirmed that there was one T-DNA insertion in sob5-D phyB-4. For plasmid rescue, sob5-D phyB-4 genomic DNA was digested with KpnI and re-ligated with T4 DNA ligase (New England Biolabs, Beverly, MA, USA), resulting in a 6.58 kb construct, pY42.102-2. The genomic DNA flanking the T-DNA was sequenced with T3 primer (5′-AAT TAA CCC TCA CTA AAG GG-3′) to determine the T-DNA insertion site. RT-PCR analysis was performed as described by CITATION. The ubiquitin10 (UBQ10) gene was used as an internal template control, and was amplified using 5′-GGT ATT CCT CCG GAC CAG CAG C-3′ and 5′-CGA CTT GTC ATT AGA AAG AAA GAG ATA ACA GGA ACG G-3′ as primers for 22 cycles. The SOB5 gene was amplified for 35 cycles using the following primers: 5′-TCT AAC CGA ACC AAC GTA GC-3′ and 5′-TTG GAT CCG ATG AGG ATT GTC G-3′; the AtSOFL1 gene was amplified for 28 cycles using the following primers: 5′-GGC TGA TGA TGG TTA TGA GAA CGA TGA TGG C-3′ and 5′-TTT GCT CAC CTT CCC TCT ACT CTG GAC ACG-3′; the AtSOFL2 gene was amplified for 26 cycles using the following primers: 5′-GAG GTA GAT GAT GAT GGT GAT GGT GAT GAA G-3′ and 5′-CTG TCA CGA ACT CTG TTC TCT GTC TGA-3′. The AtIPT genes were amplified with primers described by CITATION. AtIPT3 and AtIPT7 were amplified for 35 cycles. All reactions were repeated three times with consistent results. After digestion of pY42.102-2 with the restriction endonucleases KpnI and SacI, a DNA fragment containing 2.2 kb of rescued genomic DNA (the entire SOB5 ORF and flanking region) along with four CaMV 35S enhancer elements (CITATION) was cloned into the binary vector pPZP212 (CITATION) digested with the same enzymes. The resulting construct, pES1, was transformed into Arabidopsis phyB-4 plants by the floral dip method using Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 (CITATION). Primary transformants were screened on plates containing kanamycin (30 mg l−1). Multiple transgenic lines with increased SOB5 expression (based on RT-PCR described above) were further analyzed for the mutant phenotypes. For the SOB5–GFP construct, the SOB5 gene coding sequence lacking five C-terminal amino acids was amplified by PCR with primers 5′-GTC GCT CAG ATC TGA CGG AGT CTG CAA ACA TC-3′ and 5′-CGC TCT ACT AGT TCT AAC CGA ACC AAC GTA-3′ to introduce restriction endonuclease sites. The resulting PCR product was cut with BglII and SpeI, and inserted into pCAMBIA1302 vector (CAMBIA, Canberra, Australia) digested with the same restriction enzymes. Sequencing of the resulting construct was performed to ensure that there were no errors in the open reading frame of the fused gene. Onion epidermal layers were transformed using biolistic bombardment performed as described by CITATION. The SOB5–GFP construct was bombarded into layers of white onion that had been cut into sections of approximately 2.5 cm2. After bombardment, the onion was incubated at room temperature in the dark for 16 h. To view the transformed epidermal cells, the epidermal layer was pulled from the piece of onion with forceps, placed on a microscope slide, and kept moist with distilled water. The cells were viewed with a Nikon Eclipse E600 microscope (Tokyo, Japan). Plasmolysis of onion cells was carried out as described by CITATION. Fluorescence and bright-field images were captured using a Retiga EXi camera (QImaging, Corp., Burnaby, Canada) that was connected to the microscope. At least ten independent transformation events were observed, and all showed the same localization patterns. Images were cropped and labeled for publication using Adobe Photoshop (Adobe System Inc., San Jose, CA, USA). A 1.3 kb DNA fragment containing the SOB5 coding sequence and 870 bp genomic DNA upstream of the gene was amplified by PCR using the following primers: 5′-GTC CGC TGC AGC TCA AAT ATC CGA AAC CTC AC-3′ and 5′-GTC GCT CAG ATC TTG TCT AAC CGA ACC AAC GTA GC-3′. The PCR product was digested with PstI and BglII to create a translational fusion with the GUS gene in the pCAMBIA1301 binary vector (CAMBIA), resulting in pS1301. The C-terminal fusion to GUS resulted in the loss of four C-terminal amino acids of SOB5 and the two N-terminal amino acids of GUS. This portion of pS1301, which was created by PCR, was sequenced to confirm that there were no errors affecting the open reading frame. Arabidopsis Col-0 plants were transformed with pS1301 by the floral dip method as described above (CITATION). Homozygous, single-locus insertion lines were identified in the T3 generation by screening on plates containing 20 mg l−1 hygromycin. For GUS staining, sample tissues were incubated overnight in the following reaction solution: 100 mm sodium phosphate, pH 7.0, 10 mm EDTA, 0.5% v/v Triton X-100, 0.5 mm potassium ferrocyanide, 0.5 mm potassium ferricyanide, 1 mm 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-glucuronide (X-GlucA; Research Products International Corp., Mount Prospect, IL, USA). After staining, samples were treated with 70% v/v ethanol for 1 h, then with 100% v/v ethanol overnight at room temperature to remove chlorophyll. Tissues were photographed essentially in the same way as described by CITATION. The transgenic plants used in this analysis (numbers 1.1.4, 1.5.4 and 2.7.4) were from homozygous, single-locus insertion lines that expressed the SOB5:SOB5–GUS construct and conferred wild-type adult phenotypes (Figure S1c). All three lines showed similar GUS staining patterns. Primers 5′-GTC GCT CGA GTA ACA ATC GTC GTC ACG-3′, 5′-CGC CGG TAC CAT GGA GTC TGC AAA CAT CT-3′ and 5′-CCG CTC TAG ATA ACA ATC GTC GTC ACG-3′, 5′-CGT CTC ATC GAT ATG GAG TCT GCA AAC ATC T-3′ were used to amplify a 114 bp fragment of the SOB5 gene. These fragments were cloned into the pKANNIBAL vector (CSIRO Plant Industry, Victoria, Australia) in the sense direction with XhoI and KpnI, and in the antisense direction with XbaI and ClaI. The resulting vector was cut with NotI and either cloned into the NotI site of the pATP27 binary vector (CSIRO Plant Industry), resulting in pRNAi–SOB5A, or blunt-ended with Klenow fragment (Promega, Madison, WI, USA) and cloned into the SmaI site of the pCAMBIA1300 binary vector (CAMBIA), resulting in pRNAi–SOB5B. Arabidopsis Col-0 plants were transformed with pRNAi–SOB5A by the floral dip method as described above (CITATION), and multiple transformants were identified by screening on plates containing 30 mg l−1 kanamycin. Similarly, the sob5-D plants were transformed with pRNAi–SOB5B and multiple transformants were identified by screening on plates containing 20 mg l−1 hygromycin. For cytokinin content determination, sob5-D and wild-type plants were grown for 4 weeks under short-day conditions (8 h light/16 h darkness), then moved to long-day conditions (16 h light/8 h darkness) for 2 weeks. Cytokinins were extracted from 1 g of young leaves according to the method described by CITATION. Immediately after homogenization, 50 pmol of each of the following 12 deuterium-labeled standards were added: [2H5]Z, [2H5]ZR, [2H5]Z7G, [2H5]Z9G, [2H5]ZOG, [2H5]ZROG, [2H6]iP, [2H6]iPR, [2H6]iP7G, [2H6]iP9G, [2H5]DHZ and [2H5]DHZR (Apex Organics, Honiton, Devon, UK). Cytokinin monophosphates were determined after their dephosphorylation as corresponding ribosides. CisZ derivatives were determined using non-labeled standards and the response ratio of the corresponding trans-isomers. LC–MS analysis was performed in MS/MS mode using an ion-trap mass spectrometer LCQ (Finnigan, San Jose, USA) equipped with an electrospray interface. The chromatographic part consisted of an HPLC quaternary pump Rheos 2000 (Flux Instruments, Basel, Switzerland) and an HTS Pal autosampler (CTC Analytics, Zwingen, Switzerland). A 5 μl aliquot of purified extract (100 μl) was injected onto a C18 column AQUA (250 × 2 mm, 5 μm; Phenomenex, Torrance, CA, USA) and analyzed using a gradient of acetonitrile–water–acetic acid as described by CITATION. Levels of 26 isoprenoid cytokinins were measured. Each sample from three independent experiments was injected at least twice. Elongation of the main root was examined as described by CITATION. Root elongation between days 4 and 10 was measured using ImageJ 1.29J (NIH, Bethesda, MD, USA; http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/javal.3.1). All data represent the mean value of at least 30 individual seedlings. Determination of the effect of cytokinin on callus formation was performed as described by CITATION. Root segments were aseptically excised from 9-day-old seedlings and then cultured under continuous illumination with white light (100 μmol m−2 sec−1) for 24 days on GM medium [4.33 g l−1 Murashige and Skoog basal salts (PhytoTechnology Laboratories Inc., Shawnee Mission, KS, USA), 1% w/v sucrose, 10 ml l−1 5% 2-(N-morpholino)ethanesulfonic acid (pH 5.7, adjusted with KOH), 1 ml l−1 Gamborg vitamin solution (PhytoTechnology Laboratories Inc.), 0.3% w/v phytagel (Sigma Aldrich, St Louis, MO, USA)] supplemented with 10 ng ml−1 2,4-D and varying concentrations of kinetin. DMSO concentration in the plates was below 0.1% v/v. The experiment was repeated three times with consistent results. sob5-1 was obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (NASC) (stock number N123099); sob5-2 was supplied by the Martienssen laboratory at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory (http://genetrap.cshl.org; CITATION) (accession number GT8463). Each homozygous mutant was identified by PCR analysis of the genomic DNA. To identify homozygous lines for sob5-1, the following primers were used: Spm31, 5′-GCT TGT TGA ACC GAC ACT TTT AAC ATA AG-3′; f-Spm31, 5′-CCT TGT TGG ATT GTT TAC TTA ATA TCT CAG C-3′; sob5-6, 5′-TGG GAC CAG AAG ATG CAT CA-3′; sob5-7, 5′-TGG TTG GTC TCT TTG TTT GGG-3′. The primer pair of Spm31 and f-Spm31 specifically amplifies DNA from the insertion alleles, and the primer pair of sob5-6 and sob5-7 was used for identification of the non-insertion allele. Similarly, the following PCR primers were used to characterize sob5-2: sob5-3, 5′-GGA TGG ACG ATG TAT TTA GCC TCA CA-3′; DS3-1, 5′-ACC CGA CCG GAT CGT ATC GGT-3′; sob5-5, 5′-CAC AAG GAC ATA ACA TCG ATC GAG TAA-3′; DS5-1, 5′-GAA ACG GTC GGG AAA CTA GCT CTA C-3′. DS3-1 and DS5-1 were transposon-specific primers; sob5-3 and sob5-5 were gene-specific primers. The primer pairs of sob5-3, DS3-1 and sob5-5, DS5-1 were used to identify the insertion allele. The SOB5-specific primer pair 5′-TCT AAC CGA ACC AAC GTA GC-3′ and 5′-TTG GAT CCG ATG AGG ATT GTC G-3′ was used for identification of the non-insertion allele.
