!~ABS~! Higher plant cells exhibit interphase microtubule arrays specific to plants, which are essential for their developmental program. These cortical microtubules (CMT) consist of a population of highly dynamic microtubules that are usually organized into bundles in the cortex of the cells. The organization of CMT is intimately linked to the acquisition of specialized functions, and subsequentchanges in their distribution affect their properties. The mechanisms underlying the formation and the distribution of CMT are still unclear, and little is known about the proteins that are involved in this phenomenon. Here we investigated the putative role of katanin, the only known plant microtubule-severing protein, in the organization of CMT. We generated transgenic Arabidopsis lines that overexpress katanin under the control of an ethanol-inducible promoter. In response to an induced overexpression of katanin, CMT organized into numerous and thick bundles, which ultimately depolymerized. From the analyses of CMT patterns together with recent data on CMT dynamics, we propose that, in interphase cells, katanin's main activity is to free CMT, generating motile microtubules that incorporate into bundles.
!~RES~! In an effort to elucidate the functions of AtKSS in vivo, we produced transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana plants that overexpress AtKSS. To temporally control the expression of the transgene and to avoid potential deleterious effects of a constitutive overexpression of katanin, we used an ethanol-inducible expression system (CITATION). To directly visualize the effects of AtKSS on microtubules, we introduced AtKSS cDNA in Arabidopsis plants that stably overexpressed the microtubule marker MBD (microtubule binding domain of the mammalian MAP4) fused to the green fluorescent protein (GFP). In Arabidopsis cells, this reporter fusion protein decorates CMT without interfering with microtubule organization (CITATION). MBD–GFP plants were transformed either with AtKSS in fusion with the monomeric red fluorescent protein (mRFP; transgene 35S::ALCR;alcA::AtKSS-mRFP) or with the reporter mRFP alone as a control (transgene 35S::ALCR;alcA::mRFP). Several independent Arabidopsis lines were selected for each transgene. In the rest of this paper, plants expressing ethanol-inducible AtKSS–mRFP are referred as AtKSS–mRFP plants, and plants expressing ethanol-inducible mRFP are referred to as control plants. The induction of the expression of AtKSS–mRFP in transgenic Arabidopsis seedlings was verified by Western blot using a polyclonal antibody directed against the N-terminal domain of AtKSS (Figure 1a). After 2 or 3 days in the presence of ethanol vapor, AtKSS–mRFP plants accumulated a large polypeptide with an apparent molecular weight of 85 kDa that corresponds to AtKSS–mRFP (Figure 1a, right panel). In contrast, this polypeptide was not detected in induced control plants, in which anti-AtKSS antibodies detected a unique protein of an apparent molecular weight of 60 kDa corresponding to the endogenous AtKSS (Figure 1a, left panel). In protein extracts of induced AtKSS–mRFP plants, we sometimes observed an additional 75 kDa band that probably corresponds to a degradation product of the AtKSS–mRFP fusion. As plants can produce ethanol during fermentation (CITATION), we verified that AtKSS–mRFP plants left for 2 or 3 days in a closed culture chamber with water instead of ethanol did not expressed the transgene (data not shown). These data demonstrate that growth of 35S::ALCR;alcA::AtKSS-mRFP transgenic plants for 48–72 h in the presence of ethanol vapor specifically triggered the expression of AtKSS–mRFP. As there are no available antibodies directed against mRFP, the induction of mRFP expression in control plants could not be evaluated using Western blotting. So we used confocal microscopy to verify that mRFP accumulated in control plants after ethanol treatment (Figure 1b). After 4 days of induction with ethanol vapor, the plants did not present any apparent defects in their morphology. [[FIGURE]] To investigate the functions of AtKSS at the cellular level, we analyzed the effects of induced AtKSS overexpression on the organization of microtubules as revealed by the reporter protein MBD–GFP. Seven-day-old AtKSS–mRFP and mRFP transgenic seedlings bearing two cotyledons were grown for 48–72 h in the presence of ethanol vapor. The organization of CMT in these plants was observed using confocal microscopy. We first examined the organization of microtubules in cotyledon epidermal cells. In control cells grown for 48 and 72 h with ethanol vapor, a dense network of microtubules was distributed throughout the cortex (see Figures 1c, 2a, 3a for examples), whereas overexpression of AtKSS–mRFP dramatically altered the microtubule arrays of AtKSS–mRFP cells (compare Figure 2a,b). To precisely evaluate the disorganization of CMT in response to AtKSS overexpression, we classified all the cells we observed as in four main states, depending on the organization of their microtubules. State I corresponds to cells whose microtubule organization could not be distinguished from that observed in MBD–GFP Arabidopsis cells (Figures 1c, 2c, 3a, and data not shown). As shown in Figure 3(e), this microtubule organization was very frequently observed in induced control plants (95% and 90% of epidermal cells after 48 and 72 h of induction respectively), but was hardly observed in AtKSS–mRFP induced plants. This result shows that the ethanol treatment we used did not disturb the organization of microtubules in itself. States II, III and IV describe cells whose microtubule arrays were disorganized. Cells in state II contained CMT and few thick microtubule bundles (Figures 2b, 3b). In state III cells, we observed only short microtubule bundles spreading within the cortex (Figures 2e, 3c). The state IV cells contained very few short microtubules, if any (Figure 3d). Quantitative analysis reveals that 48 h after induction, nearly all cells overexpressing AtKSS–mRFP plants had altered microtubule arrays, with 67% of the cells in state II, 26% in state III and 6% in state IV (Figure 3e, right panel). Prolonged induction for 72 h caused a greater destabilization of microtubules, with 22% of cells in state II, 61% in state III and 16% in state IV. From these data, we conclude that the activity of AtKSS–mRFP leads to destabilization of the microtubule arrays. Using confocal microscopy, we were not able to detect AtKSS–mRFP in induced cells, although AtKSS–mRFP was overexpressed in these cells as verified on Western blots (Figure 1a). Because mRFP has a low fluorescence quantum yield (CITATION), our inability to observe AtKSS–mRFP may be due to the fact that the protein did not accumulate on microtubules so that it could have been detected. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In stomatal cells of AtKSS–mRFP plants, destabilization of the microtubule arrays mainly occurred 72 h after induction. We observed two populations of guard cells in which microtubule organization was disturbed. The first group of cells contained long CMT that were radially oriented, together with microtubules arranged in bright and short structures that resembled bundles (Figure 4b, left guard cell). In the second group of cells, all microtubules were organized into very short bundles (1–2 μm; Figure 4b, right guard cell). [[FIGURE]] In control plants grown for 48 or 72 h in the presence of ethanol vapor, hypocotyl epidermal cells were rectangular (Figures 5a, 6). In most cells (89% and 83% of control hypocotyl cells induced for 48 and 72 h, respectively; Figure 6e), CMT were organized into long and oblique bundles (Figure 6a). These cells were very similar to the epidermal hypocotyl cells of MBD–GFP Arabidopsis plants (our observations; CITATION), confirming our previous observation that the ethanol treatment we used did not perturb the organization of CMT. In contrast, in AtKSS–mRFP plants induced for 48 h, hypocotyl epidermal cells had a tapered shape (Figure 5b). A closer look into the cells revealed that they contained a destabilized and disorganized cortical microtubule array (Figure 6). At 48 h after ethanol induction, 70% of hypocotyl cells overexpressing AtKSS–mRFP contained thick microtubule bundles, together with long and oblique CMT (so-called state II cells; Figure 6b). The disorganization of CMT was more pronounced 72 h after ethanol induction. At that time, only 5% of the hypocotyl cells were in state II, whereas 46% of cells contained few fragmentated microtubules and thick microtubule bundles (so-called state III cells; Figure 6c), and 49% of cells contained very short microtubule bundles (so-called state IV cells, Figures 6d,e). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In conclusion, quantitative analysis of the organization of CMT over time in leaf and hypocotyl epidermal cells shows that, in a first step, overexpression of AtKSS–mRFP favored the formation of microtubule bundles. These bundles were then gradually shortened until the total disappearance of the microtubules.
!~MM~! Unless specified, all chemicals were purchased from Sigma (St Louis, MO, USA). Plasmid constructs were generated using standard cloning techniques (CITATION) and verified by DNA sequencing. The pACN plasmid containing the alcA promoter and the nos terminator, and the pbinSRN binary plasmid expressing alcR under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter have been described previously (CITATION). To construct the 35S::ALCR;alcA::AtKSS-mRFP cassette, AtKSS (CITATION) and mRFP (CITATION) cDNAs were amplified by PCR using primers FxbaSalKat (5′-GCTCTAGAGCGTCGACATGGTGGGAAGTAGTAATTCG-3′) and RkatEco (5′-GGAATTCAGCAGATCCAAACTCAGAGAG-3′) for AtKSS, and FEcomRFP (5′-GGAATTCGGAATGGCCTCCTCCGAGGAC-3′) and RmRFPSalXho (5′-CCGCTCGAGGTCGACTTAGGCGCCGGTGGAGTG-3′) for mRFP. PCR products were sub-cloned in pBSK plasmid (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA, USA) at the XbaI and EcoRI restriction sites for AtKSS and the EcoRI and XhoI sites for mRFP, generating pBSK-AtKSS and pBSK-mRFP1, respectively. mRFP was excised from pBSK-mRFP1 by digestion with EcoRI and XhoI, and inserted in-frame with AtKSS in the pBSK-AtKSS plasmid digested by the same restriction enzymes. The AtKSS–mRFP cassette was then cloned into the pACN plasmid at the SalI restriction site, resulting in an alcA::AtKSS-mRFP-nos terminator cassette. An HindIII-digested alcA::AtKSS-mRFP-nos terminator cassette was introduced in the pbinSRN binary plasmid, generating the pSRN::pAKR binary plasmid which expresses the alcR gene from the 35S promoter and the AtKSS–mRFP fusion protein from the alcA promoter. To construct the 35S::ALCR;alcA::mRFP cassette, mRFP cDNA was amplified by PCR using primers FSalmRFP (5′-ACGCGTCGACATGGCCTCCTCCGAGGAC-3′) and RmRFPSalXho. The PCR product was sub-cloned in the pBSK plasmid at the SalI restriction site, generating pBSK-mRFP2. mRFP was excised from pBSK-mRFP2 by digestion with SalI, and cloned into the pACN plasmid at the SalI restriction site, resulting in an alcA::mRFP-nos terminator cassette. An HindIII-digested alcA::mRFP-nos terminator cassette was introduced in the pbinSRN binary plasmid, generating the pSRN::pAR binary plasmid which expressed the alcR gene from the 35S promoter and the mRFP protein from the alcA promoter. The transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana line that constitutively expresses the microtubule marker MBD (microtubule binding domain) fused to GFP has been described previously (CITATION). These plants were transformed with the pSRN::pAKR and pSRN::pAR binary plasmids using the floral dip procedure (CITATION). Stable homozygous transformants were selected in vitro on kanamycin (50 mg l−1). Transgenic plants were grown on soil (14 h dark, 10 h light, 22°C). Induction was obtained by growing the plants in the presence of ethanol vapor, using a procedure that has previously been described (CITATION). Seven-day-old seedlings grown on soil in pots were placed in a closed chamber (45 × 30 × 18 cm; Etablissements Puteaux SA, Les Clayes-sous-Bois, France), and microtubes filled with 500 μl of 95% v/v ethanol were placed on each pot. Ten seedlings were homogenized in microfuge tubes in 100 μl extraction buffer (50 mm Tris, pH 6.8, 1% w/v SDS). AtKSS and AtKSS–mRFP were detected on Western blots using rabbit polyclonal antibody directed against the recombinant N-terminal domain of AtKSS (amino acids 1–210). Transformed Arabidopsis cells were observed after 48–72 h of induction using a Leica TCS-SP2 confocal microscope (Leica Microsystems, Wetzlar, Germany). mRFP and GFP were visualized under the following illumination conditions: 543 nm excitation, 555–612 nm emission for mRFP, and 488 nm excitation, 505–525 nm emission for GFP.
