!~ABS~! Plants can sense the direction of gravity and change the growth orientation of their organs. To elucidate the molecular mechanisms of gravity perception and the signal transduction of gravitropism, we have characterized a number of shoot gravitropism (sgr) mutants of Arabidopsis. The sgr5-1 mutant shows reduced gravitropism in the inflorescence stem but its root and hypocotyl have normal gravitropism. SGR5 encodes a zinc finger protein with a coiled-coil motif. The SGR5–GFP fusion protein is localized in the nucleus of Arabidopsis protoplasts, suggesting that SGR5 may act as a transcription factor. Analysis of GUS expression under the control of the SGR5 promoter revealed that SGR5 is mainly expressed in the endodermis, the gravity-sensing tissue in inflorescence stems. Furthermore, the observation that endodermis-specific expression of SGR5 using the SCR promoter in the sgr5-1 mutant restores shoot gravitropism indicates that it could function in the gravity-sensing endodermal cell layer. In contrast to other sgr mutants reported previously, almost all amyloplasts in the endodermal cells of the sgr5-1 mutant sedimented in the direction of gravity. Taken together, our results suggest that SGR5 may be involved in an early event in shoot gravitropism such as gravity perception and/or a signaling process subsequent to amyloplast sedimentation as a putative transcription factor in gravity-perceptive cells.
!~RES~! When wild-type Arabidopsis (Columbia ecotype) inflorescence stems were gravi-stimulated by horizontal placement, primary shoots bent upwards and became vertical in approximately 90 min at 23°C in the dark (Figure 1a,b,g). In contrast, sgr5-1 and sgr5-3 mutants exhibited weak gravitropic responses and the curvature did not reach 90° even after 3 h (Figure 1d,e,g). The sgr5-2 allele derived from the Landsberg erecta ecotype also showed reduced shoot gravitropism compared with wild-type L er (data not shown). Hypocotyls and roots of sgr5 exhibited a normal gravitropic response (CITATION). In addition, both inflorescence stems and hypocotyls of sgr5 showed a positive phototropic response, suggesting that sgr5 is capable of asymmetric growth, as reported previously (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Wild-type primary inflorescence stems grow upright and their lateral shoots grow upwards, although not upright (Figure 1c). Lateral shoots of the sgr5 mutant tended to grow in a horizontal direction similar to other sgr mutants (Figure 1f) (Fukaki et al., 1996a,b; CITATION). Growth arrest at the primary shoot apex was observed at low frequency during production of flowers. The elongation rate of inflorescence stems is, however, comparable to that of wild-type at the earlier growth stage when the gravitropic response is examined, as reported previously (CITATION). Thus, the gravitropic response of sgr5 is unlikely to be influenced by the rare growth arrest observed. Other obvious morphological phenotypes were not observed in sgr5. The SGR5 gene was cloned based on its map position. The SGR5 locus mapped at the top region of chromosome 2. By analyzing approximately 500 independent F2 lines, the locus was narrowed to a 25 kb interval in the bacterial artificial chromosome clones F23I14 and F14H20, containing three predicted ORFs. All three ORFs in sgr5-1 genomic DNA were sequenced, and a single G-to-A substitution was found in one ORF At2g01940 (Figure 2a) leading to the single amino acid substitution Asp to Asn at position 159. Plants homozygous for the sgr5-2 and sgr5-3 alleles, which are T-DNA-insertion mutations, were tested by RT-PCR to determine potential SGR5 expression. In both alleles, a slight amount of transcript could be detected using primer sets that amplify the region downstream of the T-DNA insertion. The transcript from sgr5-3 was sequenced and deduced not to encode an in-frame fusion protein of SGR5 (data not shown). Thus, sgr5-3 at least is probably a null mutant. [[FIGURE]] The 6 kb wild-type genomic fragment containing the At2g01940 ORF and predicted promoter region was cloned and introduced into sgr5-1 plants for a complementation test. Inflorescence stems of the transgenic plants exhibited gravitropism with similar kinetics as the wild-type (Figure 2b), and their lateral shoots grew upwards (data not shown). Taken together, these results lead us to conclude that At2g01940 is the SGR5 gene. At2g01940 was annotated in the Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR) as a C2H2-type zinc finger family protein similar to the putative zinc finger protein INDETERMINATE1 (ID1) (Oryzasativa). Sixteen Arabidopsis genes including SGR5 show sequence similarity with maize ID1 (CITATION) in their zinc finger domains (Figure 3a). In addition to the predicted four zinc finger motifs, these genes have a conserved sequence at the N-terminal region containing an R/K-rich stretch that could be a nuclear localization signal (Figure 3a). Three genes (SGR5, At1g25250 and At1g68130) show high similarity to one another and are less similar to ID1 than the other 13 genes are. Also, the three genes contain a highly conserved domain in addition to the zinc finger domain at their C-terminal region (Figure 3b). Thus, the three genes probably comprise a small sub-family. An amino acid substitution was found at the highly conserved amino acid in the third zinc finger in sgr5-1, suggesting that the third zinc finger is important for the molecular function of SGR5 and probably for that of other family members. [[FIGURE]] We tested whether the sub-family members including SGR5 are expressed using semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis. All three genes were detected in almost all organs examined, with significant organ specificity for levels of expression (Figure 5a). For example, the SGR5 transcripts were most abundant in the stem and the flower, while those of other two genes were most abundant in the flower. The results suggest that each sub-family member may have specific function. [[FIGURE]] As the SGR5 protein was predicted to have a nuclear localization signal, we sought more direct evidence that SGR5 is a nuclear protein. A GFP gene was fused at the C-terminus of SGR5 cDNA, and expressed under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter in Arabidopsis protoplasts. The GFP fluorescence of SGR5–GFP was observed in the nucleus (Figure 4a,b), while that of GFP alone was observed both in the cytoplasm and nucleus (Figure 4c,d). When the SGR5–GFP protein was expressed under the control of an authentic promoter in Arabidopsis, the GFP fluorescence was localized in one large organelle in each cell of the inflorescence stem endodermis (Figure 4e). pSGR5::SGR5–GFP restored the gravitropic response to sgr5-1, indicating that the SGR5–GFP fusion protein retains the molecular function of SGR5 (Figure 4f). These results indicate that SGR5 is a nuclear-localized protein. [[FIGURE]] Based on RT-PCR analysis results, the SGR5 gene appeared to be expressed throughout the whole plant. To analyze the expression pattern of SGR5, we constructed an SGR5 promoter–GUS reporter gene and introduced it into wild-type plants. The GUS expression pattern regulated by the SGR5 promoter is consistent with the expression pattern of authentic mRNA detected by RT-PCR (Figure 5a). GUS activity was detected in seedlings, hypocotyls, roots, floral organs and stems (Figure 5b–e). Strong GUS activity was detected at the shoot apical meristem but not at the root apical meristem (Figure 5c). GUS activity appeared to gradually decrease with ageing in both the shoot and root vasculature. It is noteworthy that the most striking expression was observed in the endodermis of the inflorescence stem, although a weak GUS signal was also found in the vasculature (Figure 5f). Consistently, GFP fluorescence of SGR5–GFP expressed by the SGR5 promoter was observed within the nucleus of endodermal cells, as described above (Figure 4e). In addition, the expression level of SGR5 transcripts significantly decreased in the sgr1/scr and sgr7/shr mutants lacking a normal endodermis (Figure 5g). The endodermis is the gravity-perceptive tissue of Arabidopsis inflorescence stems. To test whether endodermal expression of SGR5 is sufficient for a gravitropic response, SGR5 was expressed under the control of the endodermis-specific SCARECROW (SCR) gene promoter in the sgr5-1 mutant (Figure 2b). Transgenic plants showed almost a normal gravitropic response, suggesting that SGR5 is involved in an early process in gravitropism that takes place in the gravi-perceptive cells. Amyloplasts within the endodermal cells sedimented in the direction of gravity in wild-type plants. The movement of amyloplasts towards a gravitational force is thought to trigger the gravitropic response. In some sgr mutants, amyloplasts are dispersed within the cell and do not sediment in the direction of gravity (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Although one or two amyloplasts were occasionally found in the middle part of the cell in sgr5-1, almost all amyloplasts sedimented in the direction of gravity in endodermal cells of sgr5-1. The result suggests that SGR5 is a novel type of gene involved in a process after amyloplast sedimentation but that takes place in the gravi-perceptive cells.
!~MM~! The Columbia (Col) ecotype of Arabidopsis thaliana was used as the wild-type. The screening strategy used to isolate sgr5-1 mutants has been described previously (CITATION). Plants were grown on soil under constant white light at 23°C. The sgr5-2 (Landsberg ecotype) is a gene trap line provided by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory (New York State, USA) and DsG T-DNA is inserted at the first exon of At2g01940. The sgr5-3 (Columbia ecotype, San Diego, CA, USA ) is a T-DNA-insertion line from the SALK Institute and T-DNA is inserted at the first intron. To examine the gravitropic responses of inflorescence stems, intact plants with primary stems 4–8 cm in length were placed horizontally under non-directional dim light or in the dark at 23°C (Fukaki et al., 1996a,b). The curvature of the stem was measured at indicated times as the angle formed between the growing direction of the apex and the horizontal base line. At least ten individuals of each genotype were examined. A Landsberg erecta wild-type plant was crossed to the sgr5-1 mutant plant to generate a mapping population. SGR5 was mapped to the top of chromosome 2. For fine-scale mapping, DNA was prepared from approximately 500 F2 progeny. We generated cleaved-amplified polymorphic sequence markers that can recognize polymorphisms between Col and L er based on information provided by TAIR. For a complementation analysis, the 6.0 kb genomic DNA fragment of SGR5 including the 2.4 kb putative promoter region and 2.0 kb 3′ downstream region was cloned from a BAC F14H20 DNA into binary vector pBIN19. The resulting constructs were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain MP90 and then introduced into sgr5-1 plants. T1 plants (sgr5-1/gSGR5) were selected based on resistance to kanamycin. The presence of the transgene in these plants was confirmed by PCR. Most sgr5-1 T1 plants containing the transgene exhibited normal morphology and gravitropism (Figure 2b). Total RNA was isolated from inflorescence stems using the RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen, Tokyo, Japan). cDNAs were synthesized using SuperScript II reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen, Tokyo, Japan). PCR amplification of SGR5 cDNA was performed with the following primer set: cSGR5-F (5′-AGGATCCATGTTGTCCAACAAGAACACAAA-3′) and cSGR5-R (5′-AGGATCCTTAAAAACCATTTTCCAACTCTC-3′). The PCR products were cloned into pBlueScript II SK (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA, USA). The SGR5 cDNA was inserted downstream of the SCR promoter on the pBI binary vector, then introduced into sgr5-1 plants. T1 plants (sgr5-1/pSCR::SGR5) were selected for resistance to kanamycin. The 2.4 kb genomic fragment upstream of the SGR5 ORF was used as a promoter region for expression analysis of SGR5. The SGR5 promoter was inserted upstream of the uidA gene in the pBI101 vector (pBI101-pSGR5::GUS). The construct was transformed into wild-type plants by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. To detect GUS activity in the transgenic plants, tissues were first immersed in 90% ice-cold acetone for 15 min and then incubated in GUS staining solution (100 mm sodium phosphate, pH 7.0, 10 mm EDTA, 5 mm ferricyanide, 5 mm ferrocyanide, 0.1% TritonX-100, 0.52 mg ml−1 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-glucuronic acid) at 37°C. After being cleared in 70% ethanol, tissues were observed for GUS staining with a light microscope. For histological sections, GUS-stained inflorescence stems were dehydrated by a 30–100% ethanol series, then embedded in Technovit 7100 (Heraeus Kulzer, Wehrheim, Germany), and sectioned with a microtome. The expression of SGR5 paralogues was analyzed by RT-PCR. cDNA was prepared as described above. ACT8 was used as an internal control (CITATION). The PCR conditions were cycles of 0.5 min at 94°C, 0.5 min at 55°C, and 1 min at 72°C. PCR amplifications were repeated for 29 cycles for SGR5 and At1g25250, 27 cycles for At1g68130, and 24 cycles for ACT8. The following primers used for amplification were designed at a specific region for each gene: SGR5f (5′-AACACAAACACATGTTGTGTGG-3′), SGR5r (5′- TGGTTTCACTAGACGGAGTGC-3′), At1g68130f (5′-CAACACCCATCATCACAACCC-3′), At1g68130r (5′- CAATGGAGAGGTCCCCGTTC-3′), At1g25250f (5′- GAGCTGACGCAACCCATAAG-3′), At1g25250r (5′- AAGGGTAAGCAAAAGCTGGTG-3′), ACT8f (5′-ATGAAGATTAAGGTCGTGGCA-3′) and ACT8r (5′-TCCGAGTTTGAAGAGGCTAC-3′). RNA was extracted with the RNeasy kit (Qiagen, Tokyo, Japan) from inflorescence stem samples of 5- or 6-week-old plants. cDNA was prepared from 2 μg total RNA using Superscript II reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Quantitative RT-PCR was performed on a LightCycler apparatus (Roche Applied Science, Tokyo, Japan) with SYBER Premix EX Taq (Takara, Ohtsu, Japan) according to the manufacturer's instructions. PCR was carried out using the following program: once for 30 sec at 95°C, 40 cycles of 5 sec at 95°C and 20 sec at 60°C, followed by melting curve analysis. Specific primers were designed based on the universal probe library for Arabidopsis https://www.roche-applied-science.com/sis/rtpcr/upl/adc.jsp. Calibration was performed using a cDNA fragment cloned in a plasmid as a template. SGR5 expression levels were normalized to ACT8 expression levels. RT-PCR experiments were performed using three independent RNA samples. We used a modified pBI221 vector (pBI221ΔuidA), pBI221 lacking the uidA gene, for transient expression in cultured cells. GFP (S65T) was fused in-frame at the C-terminus of SGR5 with a triple glycine linker. The SGR5–GFP gene (p35S::SGR5–GFP) or the GFP gene (p35S::GFP) were inserted into the multi-cloning site of pBI221ΔuidA. Cultured Arabidopsis cells were maintained in modified Murashige and Skoog medium at 23°C in the dark. Plasmids and carrier DNA were introduced into protoplasts that had been generated from suspension cultures. The experiments were performed according to the method described previously (CITATION). Fluorescence of GFP was observed with an epifluorescence microscope (Eclipse E800; Nikon, Tokyo, Japan) and images were captured by cooled CCD camera (VB-6010; Keyence, Osaka, Japan). To express the SGR5–GFP fusion protein in planta, the uidA gene in pBI101- pSGR5::GUS was replaced with the SGR5–GFP gene (pBI101- pSGR5::SGR5–GFP). The construct was transformed into sgr5-1 plants by the Agrobacterium-mediated transformation procedure. The majority of T1 plants containing the transgene exhibited almost normal gravitropism in the inflorescence stems and their lateral shoots grew upwards. Inflorescence stem segments were prepared as described previously (CITATION). Fluorescence was imaged by confocal laser scanning microscopy (FV1000; Olympus, Tokyo, Japan). GFP fluorescence (green) and chlorophyll autofluorescence (red) were detected with 500–510 and 640–700 nm spectral settings, respectively, with 488 nm excitation. For observation of amyloplast sedimentation, stem segments were treated, embedded, and sectioned as described previously (CITATION).
