!~ABS~! Peroxisome biogenesis requires various complex processes including organelle division, enlargement and protein transport. We have been studying a number of Arabidopsis apm mutants that display aberrant peroxisome morphology. Two of these mutants, apm2 and apm4, showed green fluorescent protein fluorescence in the cytosol as well as in peroxisomes, indicating a decrease of efficiency of peroxisome targeting signal 1 (PTS1)-dependent protein transport to peroxisomes. Interestingly, both mutants were defective in PTS2-dependent protein transport. Plant growth was more inhibited in apm4 than apm2 mutants, apparently because protein transport was more severely decreased in apm4 than in apm2 mutants. APM2 and APM4 were found to encode proteins homologous to the peroxins PEX13 and PEX12, respectively, which are thought to be involved in transporting matrix proteins into peroxisomes in yeasts and mammals. We show that APM2/PEX13 and APM4/PEX12 are localized on peroxisomal membranes, and that APM2/PEX13 interacts with PEX7, a cytosolic PTS2 receptor. Additionally, a PTS1 receptor, PEX5, was found to stall on peroxisomal membranes in both mutants, suggesting that PEX12 and PEX13 are components that are involved in protein transport on peroxisomal membranes in higher plants. Proteins homologous to PEX12 and PEX13 have previously been found in Arabidopsis but it is not known whether they are involved in protein transport to peroxisomes. Our findings reveal that APM2/PEX13 and APM4/PEX12 are responsible for matrix protein import to peroxisomes in planta.
!~RES~! A number of apm mutants were previously identified based on the different pattern of green fluorescent protein (GFP) fluorescence from a parent plant (CITATION). Two of these mutants, apm2 and apm4, displayed GFP fluorescence in the cytosol as well as in peroxisomes (Figure 1b,c,f,g,j,k), whereas the GFP-PTS1 plant as a parent plant exhibited GFP fluorescence in peroxisomes but not in the cytosol (Figure 1a,e,i). Since GFP is transported into peroxisomes via a PTS1-dependent pathway, the presence of GFP fluorescence in the cytosol suggests a decrease in the efficiency of protein transport through this pathway in both mutants. [[FIGURE]] The pattern of GFP fluorescence is different between apm2 and apm4 mutants. In apm2, the cytosolic GFP fluorescence is very faint in the cells of almost all tissues. However, the cytosol around the nucleus in the trichome (Figure 1b) and stomata (inset in Figure 1f) is strongly labelled so that it is easier to find stomata in apm2 mutants than the parent plant, GFP-PTS1 (cf. Figure 1e and f). Peroxisomes are still observed as spherical spots in almost cells in apm2 mutants. An electron microscopic analysis (Figure 1n) showed that the number and size of peroxisomes are almost the same as in the parent plant, GFP-PTS1 (Figure 1m), which suggests that the effect of apm2 mutation is weak. In apm4 mutants, the cytosolic GFP fluorescence is strong in almost all cells and there are fewer peroxisomes. The pattern of cytosolic GFP fluorescence in apm4 mutants varies with the tissue and the stage of development. That is, GFP fluorescence in cotyledons, except stomata, is almost completely in the cytosol, and spherical spots are hardly observed compared with other tissues (Figure 1c,k). In the stomata, GFP fluorescence was observed in the cytosol and in peroxisomes, as was the case for apm2 mutants (inset in Figure 1g), but, unlike the peroxisomes of apm2 mutants, the peroxisomes of apm4 mutants are larger and fewer in number compared with the parent plant, GFP-PTS1 (cf. Figure 1m and 1o with regard to the size). We found that young cotyledons and root tips contain many peroxisomes (data not shown), as does the parent plant, GFP-PTS1, and that the number of peroxisomes decreases and the cytosolic fluorescence becomes stronger with each stage of development. In addition, clusters of peroxisomes were observed in the lower position of roots in apm4 mutants (Figure 1k), but not in apm2 mutants. These patterns of GFP fluorescence were also observed in the next generation of both mutants. Our observations indicate that APM2 and APM4 are involved in PTS1-dependent protein transport in a manner dependent on the type of tissue and the developmental stage. Both apm2 and apm4 mutants show a repression of plant growth compared with the GFP-PTS1 plant (Figure 2a). Growth repression was more severe in apm4 mutants than in apm2 mutants. In addition, the establishment frequency of apm2 mutants was similar to the level of the GFP-PTS1 plant, whereas about 20% of apm4 seeds were unable to germinate and another 20% of apm4 seeds were unable to expand cotyledons even when they could germinate (Figure 2b). These phenotypes in both mutants seemed to be related to the frequency of appearance of cytosolic GFP fluorescence. [[FIGURE]] Oilseed plants such as Arabidopsis reserve lipids as storage substrates for the production of sucrose through gluconeogenesis during germination. Fatty acids, which are produced by the reaction of lipases in lipid bodies, are transported to peroxisomes where they are metabolized to succinate by β-oxidation and the glyoxylate cycle. Therefore, β-oxidation has a vital role in producing sucrose for post-germinative growth, and mutants defective in peroxisomal β-oxidation are unable to germinate on a medium without sucrose (CITATION). Although apm2 and apm4 mutants were able to germinate on a medium without sucrose, the root length of both mutants, especially the apm4 mutants, was shorter than that of the GFP-PTS1 parent plant (white bars in Figure 2c). As another assay of β-oxidation, we analysed growth on a medium with 2,4-dichlorophenoxybutyric acid (2,4-DB). 2,4-Dichlorophenoxybutyric acid is metabolized to the herbicide 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) by the action of β-oxidation. Accordingly, the growth of wild-type plants is inhibited on a medium with 2,4-DB whereas the growth of β-oxidation-defective mutants is not (CITATION). The root length of apm2 mutants is slightly longer than that of GFP-PTS1 plants on medium with 2,4-DB (black bars in Figure 2c). In contrast, apm4 mutants, like the β-oxidation-defective mutant, ped1 (CITATION), was completely resistant to 2.4-DB. These results show that the activity for β-oxidation is slightly decreased in apm2 mutants, and markedly decreased in apm4 mutants. Proteins containing PTS2 are translated as high-molecular weight precursor proteins in the cytosol, and then transported into peroxisomes where the amino-terminal extension sequence containing PTS2 is cleaved (Kato et al., 1995, 1996, 1998). Figure 3(a) shows the developmental changes of 3-ketoacyl CoA thiolase, a PTS2-containing protein. The precursor proteins are hardly detected in the wild-type plants, so that only mature proteins were detected in the extract from GFP-PTS1 plants (open arrowheads in Figure 3a), whereas apm2 and apm4 mutants contained the high-molecular-weight precursor proteins (closed arrowheads in Figure 3a) in addition to the mature proteins. This shows that PTS2-dependent protein transport is also disturbed in apm2 and apm4 mutants. However, we are not able to exclude the possibility that the precursor thiolase protein exists in peroxisomes and is simply not processed, because of the possibility that the unidentified enzyme(s) which is responsible for processing the precursor thiolase was also not imported properly into the peroxisomes. To investigate this possibility, the fusion gene, which consisted of RFP with PTS2, was expressed transiently in both mutant cells (Figure 3b–m). When PTS2–RFP was expressed in GFP-PTS1 plant as the parent plant (Figure 3b–d), red fluorescent protein (RFP) fluorescence was observed as spherical spots (Figure 3c) and perfectly merged with GFP-labelled peroxisomes (Figure 3d). In the case of apm2 (Figure 3e–g) and apm4 (Figure 3h–j) mutants, the RFP signal was observed in the cytosol as well as in peroxisomes (Figure 3f for apm2 and Figure 3i for apm4 mutants). The pattern of RFP fluorescence for PTS2-dependent transport was as same as that of GFP fluorescence for PTS1-dependent protein transport (Figure 3e,g,h,j). These results show that the PTS2-dependent protein transport is also disturbed in both mutants, and that APM2 and APM4 proteins are involved in both PTS1- and PTS2-dependent protein transport. The fact that the precursor proteins were more abundant in apm4 mutants than in apm2 mutants is consistent with the pattern of GFP fluorescence and the repression of plant growth. [[FIGURE]] Each apm2 and apm4 mutation segregates as a monogenic recessive gene. Mapped-based cloning revealed that the APM2 and APM4 genes are located on chromosome 3 (Figure 4a). We examined the nucleotide sequences in these regions in the Arabidopsis genome sequence project and identified At3g07560 and At3g04460 as possible candidates for the APM2 and APM4 genes, respectively, which encode proteins homologous to PEX13 and PEX12 proteins in other organisms. We found single nucleotide substitutions on At3g07560 in apm2, which created a termination codon, and At3g04460 in apm4 (Figure 4b), which caused an arginine to be changed to a lysine residue (Figure 4c). [[FIGURE]] PEX13 contains a Src homology 3 (SH3) domain, which is known to mediate protein–protein interactions. The apm2 mutant has a nonsense mutation at the 263rd codon which normally encodes a glutamine residue in this SH3 domain (Figure 4b). PEX12 has a putative RING finger motif with five conserved cysteine residues in its carboxy-terminal domain. These cysteine residues are highly conserved in Arabidopsis PEX12 (Figure 4c and Figure S1). However, the apm4 mutation was not in this RING finger motif. Arabidopsis PEX12 and PEX13, like other PEX12s and PEX13s, contain two putative transmembrane domains, and their hydropathy profiles are markedly similar to those of other PEX12 and PEX13 proteins (Figure S2). To confirm that we had identified the correct genes, the apm2 and apm4 mutants were transformed with PEX13 and PEX12, respectively. As shown in Figure 5, GFP fluorescence was observed in peroxisomes of T1 plants of apm2 transformed with PEX13 (Figure 5b) and in peroxisomes of T1 plants of apm4 transformed with PEX12 (Figure 5d) in contrast to the cytosolic location in both mutants (Figure 5a,c). The same results were obtained when PEX13 and PEX12 cDNAs were expressed in an apm2 or apm4 background, respectively, under the control of constitutive 35S promoter from cauliflower mosaic virus (data not shown). In addition, the complementation of each mutant recovered the phenotype of plant growth as shown in Figure 2. That is, T1 plants of apm2 transformed with PEX13 and T1 plants of apm4 transformed with PEX12 were able to germinate on a medium without sucrose and exhibited sensitivity to 2.4-DB, as did GFP-PTS1 plants, and almost all the T1 plants of apm4 transformed with PEX12 showed normal seedling establishment (data not shown). These results demonstrate that PEX13 and PEX12 are able to complement apm2 and apm4 mutations, respectively, showing that APM2 and APM4 are PEX13 and PEX12, respectively. [[FIGURE]] To determine the subcellular localization of PEX13, we generated affinity-purified antibodies against the amino-terminal fragment of PEX13 (Met1-Met158). These antibodies detected a 31 kDa band, which is consistent with the deduced molecular mass of PEX13, in the extracts from the transgenic plants overexpressing PEX13 transcripts under the control of the 35S promoter from cauliflower mosaic virus in an apm2 background (Figure 6a, lane 3); cross-reactive bands were absent in the wild-type and apm2 plants (Figure 6a, lanes 1 and 2). We believe that the amount of PEX13 in cells of wild-type plants is too low to be detected. In yeast cells, the amount of Pex13p is very low so that overexpression was necessary for detection (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] We examined the association of PEX13 with peroxisomal membranes by fractionation of total cell extracts into soluble and membrane fractions. Catalase and GFP, which are transported into the peroxisomal matrix, were present exclusively in the soluble fraction (Figure 6b, lane 2), whereas one of the peroxisomal membrane proteins, PEX14, was predominantly in the membrane fraction, although a minor portion was present in the soluble fraction under our conditions (Figure 6b, lane 3). PEX13 was found only in the membrane fraction (Figure 6b, lane 3). It was not found in the soluble fraction even when double amounts of soluble proteins were applied to SDS-PAGE (Figure 6b, lane 2). These results indicate that PEX13 is tightly associated with membranes. These results, together with the data obtained by transient expression analysis (described in the next section), confirm that PEX13 is localized on peroxisomal membranes. We were unable to obtain good antibodies against PEX12 to investigate its suborganellar localization. In another approach, we simultaneously introduced the constructs of PEX12-GFP and RFP-PTS1 into Arabidopsis root cells by particle bombardment. In bombarded cells, RFP-PTS1 was transported into the peroxisomal matrix and peroxisomes were visualized as spherical red spots (Figure 7b,e,h). When GFP-PTS1 and RFP-PTS1 were expressed simultaneously as a control, peroxisomal matrix was labelled with both GFP (Figure 7a) and RFP (Figure 7b). Green signals from the peroxisomal matrix were observed as spherical spots and merged perfectly with RFP-derived signals (Figure 7c). However, the green signals from PEX12-GFP were observed as ring-like structures (Figure 7d), and these structures surrounded the RFP-labelled peroxisomal matrix (Figure 7f), suggesting that PEX12 is localized on peroxisomal membranes. We obtained the same result using GFP-PEX12, in which GFP was fused in front of PEX12, showing that the position of GFP in the chimeric protein does not disturb the transport of PEX12 to peroxisomes. [[FIGURE]] Similarly, GFP-PEX13, in which GFP was fused to the amino-terminus of PEX13, was observed to form ring-like structures (Figure 7g) surrounding the peroxisomal matrix (Figure 7i). This result is in good agreement with the finding that PEX13 is a membrane protein (Figure 6). However, PEX13-GFP, in which GFP was fused to the carboxy-terminus of PEX13, was observed in the cytosol but not in peroxisomes (data not shown), suggesting that masking the carboxy-terminal SH3 domain with GFP abolished the transport of PEX13 to peroxisomal membranes. We previously reported that PEX5 is an essential receptor in both PTS1- and PTS2-dependent protein transport in Arabidopsis (CITATION; CITATION), and that PEX14 acts as one component of the protein transport machinery on peroxisomal membranes (CITATION). A large amount of PEX5 was detected in the soluble fraction of the GFP-PTS1 parent plant (GFP-PTS1 in Figure 8a). In apm2 mutants, the pattern of distribution of PEX5 between soluble and membrane fractions hardly changed (apm2 in Figure 8a), whereas the amount of membrane-associated PEX5 increased in apm4 mutants (apm4 in Figure 8a). However, we cannot exclude the possibility that the mutation in APM2/PEX13 affected the distribution of PEX5, because the apm2apm4 double mutants had increased amounts of membrane-associated PEX5 compared with the apm4 single mutant (apm2apm4 in Figure 8a). This result indicates that PEX5 binds to, and does not move on, peroxisomal membranes in both mutants. [[FIGURE]] In contrast, the apm2 and apm4 mutations hardly alter the distribution of PEX14, although the apm4 mutation seems to slightly elevate the level of PEX14 and to create an additional smaller band (Figure 8b). To investigate the potential interaction of PEX13 with PEX5, PEX7 and PEX14, the yeast two-hybrid system was employed. First we used the full-length PEX13 protein, but did not observe any interaction. Accordingly, the truncated constructs with the amino-terminal 100 amino acids (PEX13N2) or the carboxy-terminal 50 amino acids (PEX13C) were generated. PEX7 interacted with PEX13N2 but did not interact with PEX13C (Table 1). These data indicate that the amino-terminal 100 amino acids of PEX13 are capable of binding with PEX7. However, neither PEX5 nor PEX14 interacted with PEX13 under our conditions, or even with extended fragments of PEX13, such as PEX13C3 (the carboxy-terminal 94 amino acids), PEX13C2 (the carboxy-terminal 130 amino acids) and PEX13N (the amino-terminal 158 amino acids) (data not shown). apm2 and apm4 mutants were crossed to produce apm2apm4 double mutants to identify the interaction of PEX12 and PEX13 that takes place in protein transport to peroxisomes. In apm2apm4 double mutants, GFP and RFP fluorescence was observed in the cytosol and in peroxisomes (Figure 1d,h,l and Figure 3k–m), as it was in each parent plant. The cytosolic GFP in the double mutant seemed to be more intense than that in apm2 mutants. However, the size of the peroxisomes in the double mutants is the same as that in apm2 mutants. Spherical spots showing peroxisomes were more abundant in the double mutants than in the apm4 mutants, although the intensity of fluorescence is lower than that in GFP-PTS1 plants. In addition, the clusters of peroxisomes observed in the apm4 root cells were hardly detectable in the double mutants. These observations show that the pattern of GFP fluorescence in the double mutants is rather similar to that in apm2 mutants, suggesting that APM2/PEX13 acts upstream of APM4/PEX12 in the process of matrix protein transport. The growth of the double mutants was more severely inhibited than the growth of the single mutants (Figure 2a). In addition, the rate of germination was also markedly reduced in the double mutants (Figure 2b), and the cotyledons of double mutant plants become yellow-green at an earlier stage than each single mutant. This is in good agreement with the findings that the double mutants have a greater sucrose dependence during germination (Figure 2c) and a greater accumulation of precursors of 3-ketoacyl CoA thiolase (Figure 3). The double mutants were insensitive to 2,4-DB by the defect of β-oxidation, as were apm4 mutants (Figure 2c). These results indicate that transport of matrix protein was more severely decreased in the double mutants.
!~MM~! GFP-PTS1 as a parent plant (ecotype Columbia) and apm mutants were grown as described previously (CITATION). Seeds were surface sterilized in 2% NaClO plus 0.02% Triton X-100 and grown on germination media [2.3 μg ml−1 MS salts (Wako, Osaka, Japan), 1% sucrose, 100 μg ml−1 myo-inositol, 1 μg ml−1 thiamine–HCl, 0.5 μg ml−1 pyridoxine, 0.5 μg ml−1 nicotinic acid, 0.5 μg ml−1 2-(N-Morpholino)ethansulfonic acid (MES)–KOH (pH 5.7), 0.8% agar (INA, Nagano Japan)]. Germination was induced by a 48-h incubation in the dark at 4°C followed by white light at 22°C. Tissues of GFP-PTS1 plants and apm mutants were prepared and examined using an LSM510 laser-scanning confocal microscope (Carl Zeiss, Jena, Germany) as previously described (CITATION). Typically, the acquisition parameters of images among plants were almost the same by using the reuse function in LSM510 software. For imaging stomata in apm4 and apm2apm4 double mutants, the detector gain was changed because of optimization for the strong intensity of cytosolic fluorescence. apm2 homozygotes, which were backcrossed three times with the parent plant GFP-PTS1, were crossed with another ecotype, Landsberg erecta. A total of 226 F2 progenies expressing mutant phenotypes were scored according to their genetic background as revealed by a series of cleaved amplified polymorphic sequences (CAPS) and simple sequence length polymorphism (SSLP) markers (CITATION; CITATION). Rough mapping revealed that the APM2 locus is located between the GAPC and nga162 markers on chromosome 3. For fine mapping, we made several sets of oligonucleotide primers for CAPS and SSLP markers according to the Cereon Genomics database (http://www.arabidopsis.org/Cereon/index.jsp). Markers on bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clones F17A9 and F17O4 indicate that the APM2 locus is located in the region between these two BAC clones. Examination of the nucleotide sequences in this region in the Arabidopsis genome sequence project (http://www.arabidopsis.org/) identified At3g07560 as a candidate. Based on this nucleotide sequence, we designed a set of oligonucleotide primers that could amplify the predicted gene by PCR. The DNA fragments corresponding to this region were amplified from the genomic DNAs of a GFP-PTS1 plant and the apm2 mutant using the same primer set, and were fully sequenced. The strategy for mapped-based cloning of the APM4 locus is the same as stated above. A total of 533 F2 progenies expressing mutant phenotypes were scored. Rough mapping revealed that the APM4 locus is located between the nga172 and F24P17 markers on chromosome 3. Fine mapping indicated that the APM4 locus is located in the region between the F20H23 and T12H1 BAC clones. At3g04460 was identified as a candidate gene from an examination of the nucleotide sequences in this region. The DNA fragments corresponding to this gene were amplified from the genomic DNAs of the GFP-PTS1 plant and the apm4 mutant using the same primer set, and were fully sequenced. The APM2 gene conjugated at the NotI and SalI sites at the 5′ and 3′ ends, respectively, was amplified by PCR. The DNA fragment contained a 1.3 kbp upstream region, an open reading frame and a 424 bp downstream region. The APM4 gene conjugated at the KpnI and XhoI sites at the 5′ and 3′ ends, respectively, was amplified by PCR. The DNA fragment contained a 2017 bp upstream region, an open reading frame and a 449 bp downstream region. The PCR-amplified fragments were subcloned and sequenced. After digestion with NotI and SalI or KpnI and XhoI, the DNA fragments were inserted into the NotI–SalI or KpnI–XhoI sites on pENTR2B (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA), and then the insert was transferred to the binary vector pGWB1 (kindly provided by Dr Nakagawa, Shimane University) by an LR recombination reaction using Gateway technology (Invitrogen). The vectors containing the PEX13 and PEX12 genes, designated pGW1APM2G and pGW1APM4G2, respectively, were then transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens (strain C58C1RifR) by electroporation. Arabidopsis was transformed by the infiltration method (CITATION). Transformants were selected on a medium containing 50 μg ml−1 hygromycin. A DNA fragment encoding from the first methionine to the 158th amino acid residue of PEX13 conjugated to BamHI and HindIII sites at the 5′ and 3′ ends, respectively, was amplified by PCR using PEX13 cDNA as a template. The amplified DNA was digested with BamHI and HindIII and inserted into the pET32a vector (Novagen, Madison, WI, USA). A PEX13 and His-tag fusion protein was synthesized in Escherichia coli cells (strain BL21), purified and used for production of rabbit antibodies against PEX13 as described previously (CITATION). Arabidopsis leaves were harvested from the GFP-PTS1 plants and apm2 and apm4 mutants. Ultrathin sectioning, microscopic analysis and immunogold labelling were done as described previously (CITATION). The GFP cDNA fragment was generated by the addition of the nucleotide sequence containing SalI, SacI, SpeI, SmaI, MluI and NcoI sites at the 5′ end and the nucleotide sequence containing BglII, KpnI,XhoI, ClaI at the 3′ end. This GFP cDNA fragment was inserted behind the 35S promoter from cauliflower mosaic virus in pTH-2 (kindly provided by Drs Hirokazu Kobayashi and Yasuo Niwa, Shizuoka University). This plasmid was designated pGM02. The GFP cDNA fragment in pGM02 was replaced with an mRFP1 cDNA fragment (CITATION), which was kindly provided by Dr Roger Tsien (University of California). This construct was designated as pRM08. BglII and SalI sites were introduced into the 5′ flanking region of the initiation codon and on either side of the stop codon in PEX13 cDNA, respectively, by PCR. The BglII–SalI fragment was inserted into the BglII–XhoI site of pGM02, yielding pGFP-PEX13. The SalI–MluI fragment, whose sites were introduced into the 5′ and 3′ ends of PEX13 cDNA by PCR, was inserted into the SalI–MluI site of pGM02, yielding pPEX13-GFP. To generate pGFP-PEX12 and pPEX12-GFP, the KpnI–XhoI fragment or SalI–MluI sites were introduced into the 5′ and 3′ ends of PEX12 cDNA by PCR. Then, the KpnI–XhoI fragment or SalI–MluI fragments were inserted into pGM02. A DNA fragment encoding the carboxy five amino acids of Arabidopsis hydroxypyruvate reductase (Pro–Val–Ser–Lys–Leu; CITATION) was inserted into the BglII–XhoI site of pRM08. This construct was designated p35RHPTS1. A DNA fragment encoding the amino-terminal 48 amino acid residues of pumpkin citrate synthase, which was conjugated at the attB1 and attB2 sites at the 5′ and 3′ ends, respectively, was amplified by PCR. The PCR-amplified fragments were cloned into the entry vector pDONR221 (Invitrogen), by a BP recombination reaction (Gateway technology, Invitrogen). The insert was transferred to the transient expression vector, pUGW54 which contains the mRFP1 gene (kindly provided by Dr Nakagawa, Shimane University), by an LR recombination reaction (Gateway technology, Invitrogen). The vector, designated pPTS2-RFP, was then introduced into root cells of transgenic Arabidopsis, GFP-PTS1, which expresses peroxisome-targeted GFP, with a Helios Gene Gun (Bio-Rad, Tokyo, Japan) according to the manufacturer's instructions. The cells were bombarded with 1.0 μm gold particles at a helium pressure of 20.68 bar (300 psi). After bombardment, tissues were incubated on MS plates for 18 h at 22°C and were observed under a LSM510 confocal laser scanning microscope (Carl Zeiss). pGFP-PEX13, pPEX13-GFP, pGFP-PEX12 or pPEX12-GFP was introduced simultaneously with p35RHPTS1 into root cells of wild-type Arabidopsis under the same conditions as stated above. p35SGFP-PTS1, which expresses a fusion protein consisting of GFP with PTS1, was introduced simultaneously with p35RHPTS1 into epidermal cells as a control. For extraction of total proteins, Arabidopsis cotyledons grown to various stages were homogenized with extraction buffer (20 mm Tris–HCl, pH 6.8, 10%β-mercaptoethanol, pH 8.0, 2% SDS and 24% glycerol) and then the homogenates were centrifuged at 13 000 g for 15 min at 4°C. Membranes were fractionated as described previously (CITATION) with slight modifications. Briefly, the aerial parts of Arabidopsis plants grown for 25 days were homogenized with buffer A [10 mm HEPES–KOH, pH 8.0, 10 mm MgCl2, protease inhibitor cocktail (Boehringer Mannheim, Germany)] and then centrifuged at 10 000 g for 5 min at 4°C to separate into soluble and membrane fractions. The membrane fractions were lysed in buffer B [10 mm HEPES–KOH, pH 8.0, 10 mm MgCl2, 1 mm EDTA, 1% digitonin, protease inhibitor cocktail (Boehringer)] and centrifuged at 10 000 g for 5 min at 4°C again. The protein content of each extract was estimated by using a protein assay kit (Nippon Bio-Rad Laboratories, Tokyo, Japan) with bovine gamma albumin as a standard protein. Proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE on a 12.5% polyacrylamide gel and transferred to a nylon membrane (Schleicher & Schuell, Dassel, Germany) or a PVDF membrane (Millipore, Tokyo, Japan) in a semidry electroblotting system. Immunological reactions were detected by monitoring the activity of horseradish peroxidase-coupled antibodies against rabbit IgG (ECL system; Amersham, Japan). Proteins on a PVDF membrane were visualized with Coomassie Brilliant Blue R-250 (Nacalai tesque, Kyoto, Japan) to verify the loading of the lane (Figure S3). The two-hybrid analysis was carried out according to the method described previously (CITATION). The tested genes were fused to the Gal4p DNA-binding domain (BD) or activation domain (AD) in the vectors pGBD-C1 or pGAD-C1 (CITATION). To construct various lengths of DNA fragments encoding the truncated PEX13, DNA fragments conjugated at the BamHI and SalI sites were amplified by PCR. After digestion with BamHI and SalI, DNA fragments were inserted into the BamHI and SalI sites on pGBD-C1 and pGAD-C1, and then sequenced to confirm that no mutation was introduced. The two-hybrid vectors were co-transformed into tester strain PJ69–4A (CITATION) according to an established protocol (CITATION). Yeast transformants were selected and grown on complete synthesized media containing 2% glucose, 0.67% yeast nitrogen base without amino acids (DIFCO) and amino acids as needed. Two-hybrid interactions were assayed using His3 and LacZ reporters.
