!~ABS~! We screened for mutants of Arabidopsis thaliana that displayed enhanced disease resistance to the powdery mildew pathogen Erysiphe cichoracearum and identified the edr3 mutant, which formed large gray lesions upon infection with E. cichoracearum and supported very little sporulation. The edr3-mediated disease resistance and cell death phenotypes were dependent on salicylic acid signaling, but independent of ethylene and jasmonic acid signaling. In addition, edr3 plants displayed enhanced susceptibility to the necrotrophic fungal pathogen Botrytis cinerea, but showed normal responses to virulent and avirulent strains of Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato. The EDR3 gene was isolated by positional cloning and found to encode Arabidopsis dynamin-related protein 1E (DRP1E). The edr3 mutation caused an amino acid substitution in the GTPase domain of DRP1E (proline 77 to leucine) that is predicted to block GTP hydrolysis, but not GTP binding. A T-DNA insertion allele in DRP1E did not cause powdery mildew-induced lesions, suggesting that this phenotype is caused by DRP1E being locked in the GTP-bound state, rather than by a loss of DRP1E activity. Analysis of DRP1E–green fluorescent protein fusion proteins revealed that DRP1E is at least partially localized to mitochondria. These observations suggest a mechanistic link between salicylic acid signaling, mitochondria and programmed cell death in plants.
!~RES~! We screened ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS) mutagenized Col-0 plants (M2 generation) with the UCSC1 strain of E. cichoracearum for enhanced disease resistance. From a screen of 12 000 M2 plants derived from 3000 M1 parents, we identified three edr1-like mutants (CITATION) that we have designated edr2, edr3 and edr4. The edr2 mutant has already been described (CITATION) and the edr4 mutant remains to be fully characterized. Here we describe the edr3 mutant and EDR3 gene. In contrast to wild-type Col-0 plants, edr3 mutant plants displayed very little powder and formed large lesions 8 days after infection with E. cichoracearum (Figure 1a). To ascertain at what stage fungal development was being arrested, we stained infected leaves with trypan blue, which stains fungal structures and dead plant cells. No obvious difference between wild-type and edr3 leaves was observed during the first 3 days after inoculation, and no epidermal cell death was observed in either wild-type or edr3 mutant leaves. The spores of E. cichoracearum germinated approximately 24 h after inoculation and developed extensive branched hyphae on both Col-0 leaves and edr3 leaves by day 3 (data not shown). However, by day 5 and day 7, fewer conidiophores formed on edr3 leaves than on Col-0 leaves (Figure 1). Similar to the previously identified edr1 and edr2 mutants, the edr3 mutant displayed large patches of dead mesophyll cells by 5 days after infection (Figure 1c), with cell death becoming extensive by 7 days after infection (Figure 1e). Such mesophyll cell death was not observed on Col-0 leaves (Figure 1b,d), and was not observed on edr3 mutants prior to powdery mildew infection (data not shown). These observations indicate that growth of E. cichoracearum was being arrested at a late stage of the infection process, possibly due to nutrient deprivation resulting from massive mesophyll cell death. [[FIGURE]] To further characterize the edr3 mutant, we investigated whether edr3 mutant plants displayed altered responses to virulent and avirulent strains of P. syringae pv. tomato. Both Col-0 and edr3 were susceptible to the virulent strain DC3000, but resistant to the avirulent strain DC3000 (avrRpt2). The disease phenotypes displayed by edr3 and wild-type Col-0 plants were indistinguishable and there were no significant differences in bacterial growth (data not shown). These data suggest that EDR3 does not function in regulating defense responses against virulent or avirulent P. syringae strains. We also inoculated the edr3 mutant with a necrotrophic fungal pathogen, Botrytis cinerea, the causal agent of gray mold. Botrytis cinerea causes symptoms of soft rot on more than 200 different plant species, including Arabidopsis (CITATION). Wild-type Col-0 plants are susceptible to this pathogen and mutations in the ethylene (ein2) and JA (jar1) pathways enhance susceptibility to B. cinerea, while the SA pathway mutations sid2 and pad4 have no effect on resistance to B. cinerea (CITATION). The edr3 mutant displayed enhanced susceptibility to this pathogen, producing significantly larger necrotic lesions than wild-type Col-0 plants (Figure 2a,b). [[FIGURE]] In addition to resistance to powdery mildew, the previously identified edr1 and edr2 mutants display an enhanced ethylene-induced senescence phenotype (CITATION; CITATION). Unlike edr1 and edr2 mutant plants, edr3 plants displayed no visible difference from wild-type Col-0 plants when treated with 100 μl l−1 ethylene (data not shown). This observation suggests that edr3 may function in a pathway distinct from edr1 and edr2. To assess the roles of SA in edr3-mediated disease resistance, we crossed edr3 to the SA-deficient mutant sid2-2 (CITATION). The edr3-mediated powdery mildew resistance and cell death were suppressed by the sid2-2 mutation (Figure 3), indicating that edr3-mediated disease resistance is dependent on SA. To further assess the requirement for SA-induced defenses, we created edr3/npr1 and edr3/pad4 double mutants. Mutations in NPR1 block most SA-induced defense responses (CITATION; CITATION), while pad4 mutations reduce accumulation of SA induced by some, but not all, pathogen strains (CITATION). Consistent with the results of the edr3/sid2 analysis, both the npr1 (allele nim1-1) and the pad4-1 mutations suppressed the edr3-mediated resistance to powdery mildew and cell death (Figure 3). [[FIGURE]] To investigate whether ethylene and JA play a role in edr3-mediated disease resistance, we crossed the edr3 mutant to the ethylene-insensitive mutant ein2-1 (CITATION) and to the jasmonate-insensitive mutant coi1-1 (CITATION). In contrast to mutations that suppress the SA defense pathway, the ein2 and coi1 mutations did not suppress edr3-mediated resistance (data not shown). Taken together, the above data indicate that edr3-mediated powdery mildew resistance depends on SA-induced defense responses and is independent of defenses induced by ethylene and JA. The edr1- and edr2-mediated resistance phenotypes have also been shown to be dependent on SA-induced defenses and independent of ethylene and JA signaling by similar double mutant analyses (CITATION; Tang et al., 2005a,b). Because edr3-mediated resistance depends on SA signaling, we assessed whether the SA-inducible defense gene PR-1 was constitutively expressed. Constitutive expression of PR-1 would indicate that the edr3 mutation may simply disrupt cellular physiology, leading to an elevation of SA levels that would provide a trivial explanation for the enhanced resistance to powdery mildew. However, using RNA gel-blot analysis, we observed no enhanced expression of PR-1 in edr3 plants, either before or after inoculation with powdery mildew (Figure 4). This result indicates that the edr3-mediated resistance is not caused by constitutive expression of SA-inducible defense genes. This conclusion is consistent with the lack of enhanced resistance to P. syringae observed in edr3 plants. [[FIGURE]] Although the edr1 and edr3 mutations both confer a lesion phenotype induced by powdery mildew that is dependent on SA signaling, the lesions on these two mutants have a qualitatively distinct appearance. In the edr1 mutant, the lesions are generally yellow-brown in color and appear dry, while in the edr3 mutant, the lesions are grayer and water-soaked in appearance, suggesting that these lesions may be induced by different pathways. To assess the relationship between lesions induced by edr1 and edr3 we crossed edr1 with edr3 and characterized the phenotype of the edr1/edr3 double mutant. The double mutant displayed the edr1-like lesion phenotype upon infection with powdery mildew, indicating that edr1 is epistatic to edr3, at least at the level of mildew-induced lesions (data not shown). To map the EDR3 gene, the edr3 mutant (Columbia genotype, Col-0) was crossed to Arabidopsis ecotype Landsberg erecta (Ler) and scored for the mildew-induced lesion phenotype in the F2 generation. Approximately 25% of the F2 plants displayed the lesion phenotype, indicating that edr3 is recessive. Initially, the EDR3 gene was mapped to a region between the microsatellite markers CIW4 and nga6 on chromosome 3 in a population of 48 resistant F2 plants. To further localize the EDR3 gene, we developed new markers at intervals between these two markers using Monsanto Col-0 and Ler polymorphism data (http://www.arabidopsis.org/Cereon/index.jsp). Five hundred and six resistant F2 plants representing 1012 meioses were scored, which allowed us to localize the edr3 mutation to a region spanned by bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clone F27H5 (GenBank accession no. AL163852). This analysis defined a 40-kb interval containing EDR3 (Figure 5a). [[FIGURE]] To identify the EDR3 gene, we constructed a cosmid library using BAC F27H5 DNA. Four cosmid subclones of BAC F27H5, which overlapped and covered the entire EDR3 interval, were identified and used to rescue the edr3 phenotype. Among these four subclones, only cosmid clone 65 complemented the edr3 mutation, with nine out of ten T1 plants displaying the wild-type susceptible phenotype (Figure 5b). Self-progeny from these lines were obtained and assayed for resistance to powdery mildew. The susceptible phenotype co-segregated with the T-DNA. Sequencing of the vector-insert junction fragments of cosmid 65 revealed that it contained four full-length genes: At3g60190 (encodes Arabidopsis dynamin-related protein 1E, DRP1E), At3g60200 (encodes an unknown protein), At3g60210 (encodes a putative protein chaperonin 10) and At3g60220 (encodes a putative ring finger transcription factor). We sequenced all four of these genes from the edr3 mutant and found a single mutation, a C→T transition, in AT3g60190, which caused an amino acid change (P77L) in the predicted open reading frame. No mutations were found in the other three genes. To confirm that At3g60190 is EDR3, we transformed two additional cosmid clones, A4 (7.1–24.5 kb of BAC F27H5) and A64 (23.9–42.1 kb of BAC F27H5) into the edr3 mutant. Clone A4 contained the complete At3g60190 gene, but lacked full-length copies of the other genes on clone 65, while A64 contained a truncated At3g60190 gene along with all three other full-length genes on clone 65. Clone A4 complemented the edr3 mutant phenotype, while clone A64 did not (data not shown), confirming that At3g60190 is EDR3. The EDR3 gene consists of 15 exons and 14 introns and encodes dynamin-related protein 1E (DRP1E, also known as ADL4 and ADL1E; CITATION), which is 624 amino acid residues long, has a predicted mass of 69.8 kDa and a pI of 7.5. Dynamin-related protein 1E belongs to a plant-specific subclass of dynamin-related proteins (DRP1), consisting of five members in Arabidopsis (A, B, C, D, E) (CITATION). This class is characterized by having an N-terminal GTPase domain, a central ‘dynamin 2‘ domain and a C-terminal GTPase effector domain (GED), a typical structure for plant dynamin-related proteins. However, this class lacks a PH domain and a proline-rich domain, which are found in classical animal dynamin-like proteins. Based on work on animal dynamins, the plant DRP1 proteins should be able to form polymeric structures that wrap around membranes to facilitate membrane tubulation and pinching off of vesicles (CITATION), processes that are essential to vesicle trafficking and membrane compartmentalization. The edr3 mutation causes a P77L substitution in the G2 motif of the GTPase domain of DRP1E. Mutations in this domain of mammalian dynamin 1 block GTP hydrolysis without significantly affecting GTP binding (CITATION). Such mutations also block endocytosis and lead to the formation of long tubular invaginations from the plasma membrane in COS-7 fibroblasts (CITATION), indicating that GTP hydrolysis by dynamin is required for pinching off of vesicles during endocytosis. Because the edr3 mutation is likely to alter DRP1E function, rather than eliminate it, we obtained a T-DNA insertion in DRP1E to assess whether loss of DRP1E function causes an edr3-like phenotype. The SALK T-DNA insertion line 060080 contains an insertion at amino acid position 366 of DRP1E, which is 258 amino acids from the C-terminus and is located within the central dynamin 2 domain. This allele is thus unlikely to produce a functional protein. We confirmed the location of the T-DNA insertion by PCR-based amplification of the T-DNA left border and direct sequencing of the PCR product. Plants homozygous for the T-DNA insertion displayed no noticeable morphological or growth defects (data not shown). They also showed normal susceptibility to infection by E. cichoracearum (data not shown). This observation indicates that the edr3 mutant phenotype is probably a gain-of-function phenotype, despite the fact that it is recessive and can be complemented by a single copy of a wild-type transgene. To gain more insight into the function of DRP1E we investigated the subcellular localization of the DRP1E protein using a green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion to the N-terminus of DRP1E. Expression of this fusion protein in transgenic Arabidopsis Col-0 plants under control of the constitutive cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter revealed that GFP:DRP1E localizes to punctate spots in Arabidopsis root cells (Figure 6a), indicating that DRP1E associates with an organelle. To assess whether these spots were mitochondria, we stained transgenic Arabidopsis roots with the mitochondrial-specific fluorescent dye MitoTracker Red CMXRos (Figure 6b). The MitoTracker fluorescence and GFP fluorescence co-localized (Figure 6c), indicating that DRP1E associates with mitochondria, at least part of the time. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana plants were grown in growth rooms under a 9-h light/15-h dark cycle at 23°C as described previously (CITATION). Ethyl methanesulfonate-mutagenized Col-0 plants (M2 generation) were inoculated with E. cichoracearum and scored for disease responses 8 days after inoculation. Plants displaying no visible powder or necrotic lesions were selected and allowed to set seeds. Approximately 12 000 M2 plants derived from 3000 M1 plants were screened (CITATION). Erysiphe cichoracearum strain UCSC1 was maintained on hypersusceptible A. thaliana pad4-2 mutant plants, with passage of asexual spores (conidia) onto fresh plants every 8–10 days. Plants were inoculated between 4 and 6 weeks of age. To inoculate plants, spores were transferred directly from diseased plants to healthy plants by gently brushing the leaves together. Disease phenotypes were scored 8 days after inoculation. Fungal structures and dead plant cells were stained using alcoholic trypan blue (CITATION). Samples were observed as described previously (CITATION). Inoculation of A. thaliana plants with P. syringae pv. tomato strain DC3000 and measurement of bacterial growth within leaves was performed as described previously (CITATION). Inoculation of A. thaliana plants with B. cinerea was performed as described by CITATION. Lesion size induced by botrytis was determined by measuring the major axis of the necrotic area 3 days after infection. Six-week-old plants were placed in a sealed chamber containing 100 μl l−1 ethylene for 3 days and then visually inspected for chlorotic (yellow) leaves. Total RNA was isolated from Arabidopsis leaf tissue using an RNeasy Mini Kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA, USA). A total of 5 μg of RNA was separated on a denaturing formaldehyde–agarose gel and transferred to Hybond N nylon membranes (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech, Buckinghamshire, UK). RNA gel-blots were hybridized with a [32P]-labeled PR-1 (At2g14610) cDNA probe and washed at 65°C using Church buffer (CITATION). Genetic mapping was accomplished using an F2 population derived from a cross between the edr3 mutant (Columbia genotype, Col-0) and Landsberg erecta (Ler). F2 seeds were planted and scored for disease resistance to E. cichoracearum as described above. Genomic DNA was isolated from 48 resistant F2 plants and scored with published microsatellite markers. This initial mapping localized the edr3 mutation between molecular markers CIW4 and nga6 on chromosome 3. We then developed our own molecular markers at intervals between these two markers using Monsanto Col-0 and Ler polymorphism data (http://www.arabidopsis.org/Cereon/index.jsp; primer sequences available upon request). Five hundred and six resistant F2 plants representing 1012 meioses were scored. Ultimately, the edr3 mutation was localized to BAC clone F27H5. This analysis defined a 40 kb region that co-segregated with the edr3 mutation. Bacterial artificial chromosome clone F27H5 (GenBank accession no. AL163852) was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (Ohio State University, Columbus, OH). The binary vector pCLD04541 (CITATION) and F27H5 BAC DNA were isolated using a HiSpeed kit (Qiagen) following the manufacturer's instructions. F27H5 BAC DNA was partially digested using the restriction enzyme Sau3AI and ligated to BamHI-digested pCLD04541. The ligation mix was packaged using Gigapack III Plus packaging extract (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA, USA) and transfected into Escherichia coli strain DH5α. Positive clones were selected on Luria–Bertani (LB) medium with 10 μg ml−1 tetracycline (Sigma, St Louis, MO, USA). Overlapping cosmid clones were identified by PCR-based library screening with specific primer pairs to internal sequences of BAC F27H5. Four cosmid clones that covered the defined edr3 co-segregating region of BAC F27H5 were selected. The selected cosmid clones were purified using a plasmid miniprep kit (Qiagen) and transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 by electroporation with selection on LB plates containing 50 μg ml−1 kanamycin sulfate (Sigma). Arabidopsis plants were transformed using the floral dip method (CITATION). Transgenic plants were selected by growing on 0.5× Murashige and Skoog salts plus 0.8% agar and 50 μg ml−1 kanamycin. Transformants were transplanted to soil 7 days after germination and were inoculated with E. cichoracearum when 5 weeks old. T1 plants displaying wild-type phenotypes were allowed to self and the T2 generation was tested for segregation of susceptibility to powdery mildew. Co-segregation of the T-DNA insert with powdery mildew disease was examined by PCR using primers specific to the NPTII gene on the T-DNA. The cosmid that complemented the edr3 mutant phenotype was analyzed by sequencing of the junctions between the insert and the vector using primers T3 and T7. This cosmid contained the sequence from 17.9 to 33.0 kb of BAC F13C5. Genes contained within this stretch of DNA were amplified from the edr3 mutant by PCR and directly sequenced. All sequencing reactions were performed using BigDye Terminator Kits (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA, USA) and separated on an ABI 3730 automated DNA sequencer (Applied Biosystems). To confirm the annotation of EDR3, we amplified EDR3 from a Col-0 cDNA library by PCR using primers covering the beginning and end of the predicted EDR3 open reading frame. The PCR products were sequenced directly and DNA sequences were assembled using the sequencher program (Gene Codes, Ann Arbor, MI, USA). Double mutants were created by standard genetic crosses and verified by PCR and sequencing as described in CITATION. The edr3, pad4-1, sid2-2 and ein2-1 mutations were in the Col-0 background, while npr1 (nim1-1) was in the Wassilewskija (Ws) background and coi1-1 was in the Col-6 background. A C-terminal GFP fusion to a full-length EDR3 cDNA was constructed. EDR3 cDNA was amplified by PCR using primers that incorporated restriction sites EcoRI and BamHI (5′-AACCGAATTCATGACGACTATGGAGAGTTTGATTGG-3′ and 5′-AGCTGGATCCTCATCTTACCCAAGCAACAGCATCAA-3′). The PCR product was then digested and inserted into EcoRI- and BamHI-digested pEGAD vector, which contains a 35S Cauliflower Mosaic Virus promoter (CITATION). The construct was verified by sequencing and transformed into Agrobacterium strain GV3101 by electroporation. For stable transformation, transgenic plants (in the Col-0 background) were selected by spraying with 0.01% glufosinate-ammonium (Basta) (Farnam, Phoenix, AZ, USA). For co-localization of DRP1E and mitochondria, seeds of Arabidopsis transgenic plants expressing 35S-GFP:DRP1E were sown on 0.8% agar plates and treated at 4°C for 2 days, then grown at 23°C under continuous light for 8 days. The roots were cut into small pieces, vacuum infiltrated for 5 min and incubated at 23°C for 1 h in 4 μm MitoTracker Red CMXRos (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR, USA). The roots were then rinsed twice with water. Samples were observed and photographed using a Nikon e800 microscope (Melville, NY, USA). Excitation and emission wavelengths were 460–500 nm and 505 nm, respectively for visualization of GFP and 530–550 nm and 590–650 nm for visualization of MitoTracker Red. A T-DNA insertion line was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center at Ohio State University (SALK060080). Homozygous individuals were identified using PCR with a T-DNA specific primer and primers specific to DRP1E that flanked the T-DNA insertion. The location of the insertion site was confirmed by direct sequencing of the PCR product.
