!~ABS~! To investigate PtdIns3P localization and function in plants, a fluorescent PtdIns3P-specific biosensor (YFP–2xFYVE) was created. On lipid dot blots it bound specifically and with high affinity to PtdIns3P. Transient expression in cowpea protoplasts labelled vacuolar membranes and highly motile structures undergoing fusion and fission. Stable expression in tobacco BY-2 cells labelled similar motile structures, but labelled vacuolar membranes hardly at all. YFP–2xFYVE fluorescence strongly co-localized with the pre-vacuolar marker AtRABF2b, partially co-localized with the endosomal tracer FM4-64, but showed no overlap with the Golgi marker STtmd–CFP. Treatment of cells with wortmannin, a PI3 kinase inhibitor, caused the YFP–2xFYVE fluorescence to redistribute into the cytosol and nucleus within 15 min. BY-2 cells expressing YFP–2xFYVE contained twice as much PtdIns3P as YFP-transformed cells, but this had no effect on cell-growth or stress-induced phospholipid signalling responses. Upon treatment with wortmannin, PtdIns3P levels were reduced by approximately 40% within 15 min in both cell lines. Stable expression of YFP–2xFYVE in Arabidopsis plants labelled different subcellular structures in root compared with shoot tissues. In addition labelling the motile structures common to all cells, YFP–2xFYVE strongly labelled the vacuolar membrane in leaf epidermal and guard cells, suggesting that cell differentiation alters the distribution of PtdIns3P. In dividing BY-2 cells, YFP–2xFYVE-labelled vesicles surrounded the newly formed cell plate, suggesting a role for PtdIns3P in cytokinesis. Together, these data show that YFP–2xFYVE may be used as a biosensor to specifically visualize PtdIns3P in living plant cells.
!~RES~! Prior to testing YFP–2xFYVE as a PtdIns3P biosensor in plant cells, we first needed to confirm the lipid-binding specificity of the construct. To this end, a GST fusion was expressed in Escherichia coli and the purified fusion protein subjected to a protein–lipid overlay assay: a nitrocellulose membrane with various phosphorylated inositol phospholipids spotted at different concentrations. As shown in Figure 1(a), it specifically bound PtdIns3P, without cross-reacting with any of the other polyphosphoinositide isomers. GST alone did not give any signal (not shown). [[FIGURE]] Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L.) protoplasts were transfected with a plasmid containing YFP–2xFYVE under the control of a constitutive promoter (35S) (Figure 1b). Sixteen hours after transfection, YFP–2xFYVE fluorescence was seen as small punctated structures (0.57 ± 0.2 μm, n = 80) and also on the vacuolar membrane (Figure 1c,d; two different confocal planar views of the same cowpea protoplast expressing YFP–2xFYVE). The small punctated structures were highly motile (see Supplementary Movie S1). Occasionally (approximately 1%), protoplasts with very high YFP–2xFYVE fluorescence revealed larger vesicular structures, present inside the central vacuole (Figure 1e). In general, the protoplast appearance and viability seemed unaffected by the expression of YFP–2xFYVE compared with protoplasts expressing unfused YFP. The advantage of the transient protoplast system is that the expression of YFP constructs can be quickly assessed. A limitation, however, is that protoplasts undergo excessive cell wall regeneration and are physiologically stressed (J.E.M. Vermeer, J. Goedhart, W. van Leeuwen, T. Munnik, T.W.J. Gadella Jr, unpublished results). Hence, they are not ideal to monitor PtdIns3P dynamics in vivo in response to a stimulus. Therefore, stably transformed tobacco BY-2 cells expressing YFP–2xFYVE were generated. As a control, BY-2 cells were transformed with a plasmid containing YFP only. Both cell lines were identical in appearance to untransformed BY-2 cells and grew normally (not shown). While the fluorescence of the control cells was present throughout the cytosol and the nucleus (Figure 2a), the BY-2 cells expressing YFP–2xFYVE revealed numerous punctated structures (Figure 2b) that were rapidly moving, resembling the structures observed in cowpea protoplasts (Figure 1c,d). These vesicle-like structures were of two different sizes: smaller, 0.47 ± 0.10 μm (n = 100), and larger vesicles, 1.18 ± 0.29 μm (n = 100). All labelled vesicles were excluded from the nucleus (see Supplementary Movie S2). In contrast to the cowpea protoplasts, only faint labelling of the vacuolar membrane was observed in YFP–2xFYVE BY-2 cells. [[FIGURE]] Next, the dynamics and characteristics of the YFP–2xFYVE-labelled vesicles were examined. This was performed by studying subsequent images taken from a time series (Figure 3; Supplementary Movie S3). Most YFP–2xFYVE-labelled vesicles were moving, displaying ‘kiss and run’ behaviour (CITATION), although some were found to be stationary for a while before moving out of the focal plane (arrowheads, Figure 3). In addition to ‘kiss and run’ behaviour, YFP–2xFYVE-labelled vesicles also appeared to fuse with (Figure 3, circles) and separate from each other (Figure 3, squares). The fusion events seemed to be limited to the larger vesicles; the smaller appeared to remain single. [[FIGURE]] To determine whether movement of the YFP–2xFYVE-labelled vesicles depended on the actin or the microtubular cytoskeleton, two different drugs were used: latrunculin A (1 μm), to disrupt the actin cytoskeleton, and oryzalin (10 μm), a microtubule-depolymerizing agent. While oryzalin had no effect on the dynamics of the YFP–2xFYVE-labelled vesicles, latrunculin A completely arrested all movement (Supplementary Movies S4 and S5). These results suggest that YFP–2xFYVE-labelled vesicles are transported via the actin cytoskeleton. Wortmannin is a potent inhibitor of PI3 kinase activity, inhibiting the phosphorylation of phosphatidylinositol to PtdIns3P (CITATION; CITATION). To determine its effect on YFP–2xFYVE labelling, cells were treated with 10 μm wortmannin and followed in time. As shown in Figure 4(a), within minutes of adding wortmannin, the YFP–2xFYVE label disappeared from the vesicles and simultaneously appeared in the cytosol and nucleus (see Supplementary Movie S6). After 15–20 min, most of the YFP–2xFYVE fluorescence was in the cytosol and nucleus. After 1–2 h, labelling reappeared on membrane structures, but now vesicles appeared larger (Figure 4c). Wash-out of the wortmannin resulted in relocalization of the YFP–2xFYVE fluorescence onto the vesicular structures, just as in untreated cells (data not shown). However, wortmannin is labile in water, so it is also possible that the reversible effect of is due to newly synthesized proteins escaping the inhibition. [[FIGURE]] These results suggest that wortmannin reduces the PtdIns3P levels in the vesicles, and, as a result, the YFP–2xFYVE sensor is released and diffuses throughout the cytosol and into the nucleus. The accumulation of YFP–2xFYVE fluorescence in the nucleus seemed to be the result of active transport, as its fluorescence was often much higher than in the cytosol (Figure 4). In yeast and mammalian cells, PtdIns3P is mainly localized in endocytic compartments (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To investigate its location in plant cells, YFP–2xFYVE cells were incubated with the styryl dye FM4-64, which is a commonly used endocytic tracer in plant cell studies (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Figure 5 (and Supplementary Movie S7) shows a representative picture, after a 10 min pulse labelling with 4 μm FM4-64. Typically, only approximately 10–20% of the YFP–2xFYVE-labelled vesicles were co-labelled with FM4-64 (arrowheads in Figure 5). Sometimes, partial co-labelling was observed (arrow in Figure 5). To further investigate the identity of the YFP–2xFYVE-labelled vesicles, BY-2 cells were co-transformed with YFP–2xFYVE and either mRFP–AtRabF2b (Ara7), an endosomal/pre-vacuolar marker (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), or with STtmd–CFP, a Golgi marker (CITATION). Most of the YFP–2xFYVE-labelled vesicles were found to co-localize with mRFP–AtRabF2b (Figure 6a–d; Supplementary Movie S8). In contrast, there was no co-labelling of YFP–2xFYVE-labelled vesicles and STtmd–CFP-labelled Golgi stacks (Figure 6e–h; Supplementary Movie S9). Frequently, however, YFP–2xFYVE-labelled vesicles appeared in close proximity to the STtmd–CFP-labelled Golgi stacks, suggesting a possible transient interaction between the two. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] As mentioned earlier, YFP–2xFYVE cells exhibited no apparent phenotype. However, as YFP–2xFYVE labelled endocytic/pre-vacuolar vesicles, and endocytic transport is involved in various plant signalling processes, e.g. auxin transport (CITATION), we wished to determine whether over-expressing the PtdIns3P biosensor affected the lipid content and associated signalling. To this end, 32 Pi-radiolabelling studies on untransformed, YFP- and YFP–2xFYVE-transformed BY2 cells were conducted. To activate different lipid signalling pathways, cells were osmotically stressed (250 mm NaCl; 15 min) or treated with mastoparan (5 μm Mas7; 15 min). A typical response to hyper-osmotic stress is an increase in PtdIns(4,5)P2 (CITATION; CITATION), while Mas7, a potent activator of PLC and PLD signalling pathways, results in the formation of phosphatidic acid and diacylglycerolpyrophosphate (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). As shown in Figure 7(a), untransformed, YFP- and YFP–2xFYVE-transformed BY2 cells exhibited very similar radiolabelled phospholipid pools and showed identical responses to salt and mastoparan. Also lower concentrations of salt produced no differences (Figure 7b,c). Hence, the transgenes did not seem to interfere with lipid signalling. [[FIGURE]] To further analyse the PtdIns3P content of these cells, HPLC headgroup analyses were performed. Strikingly, YFP–2xFYVE cells were found to have a twofold higher PtdIns3P level than the YFP cells (Figure 7d). As a percentage of total phospholipids, YFP cells contained 0.37% ± 0.13 (n = 4) PtdIns3P as opposed to 0.73% ± 0.20 (n = 4) PtdIns3P in YFP–2xFYVE-transformed cells. Treatment with 10 μm wortmannin reduced the PtdIns3P contents by almost 40% within 15 min in both cell lines (38% ± 9, n = 4 for YFP cells and 39% ± 7, n = 4, for YFP–2xFYVE cells). The levels of PtdIns4P (approximately 10% of the total) hardly changed after the cell treatments. To investigate whether such a biosensor can be used in whole plants, transgenic Arabidopsis plants stably expressing YFP–2xFYVE were generated. Of the two lines generated, homozygous T3 lines grew normally and were indistinguishable from YFP-transformed or untransformed plants (data not shown). As shown in Figure 8, YFP–2xFYVE was expressed throughout the plant and was localized on small, highly motile vesicles and sometimes also on vacuolar membranes. The vesicles were similar to those observed in BY-2 cells and could also be divided into smaller (0.57 ± 0.11 μm, n = 75) and larger (1.02 ± 0.2 μm, n = 75) populations. In root cortical cells, YFP–2xFYVE fluorescence was only observed on small vesicles (Figure 8b,c). In older root epidermal cells, vacuolar membranes were also labelled (Figure 8d,e). In the tip area of growing root hairs, many rapidly moving vesicles were observed (Figure 8h,i and Supplementary Movie S10). In leaf epidermal and guard cells, YFP–2xFYVE fluorescence was present on motile vesicular structures, but also strongly present on the vacuolar membrane (Figure 8m–p; Supplementary Movies S11–S14). Stomata often had large labelled vesicles (2–5 μm) inside the central vacuole, resembling structures also occasionally observed in cowpea protoplasts. [[FIGURE]] When analysing YFP–2xFYVE-transformed cells, we occasionally observed cells that were in the middle of the process of division. In such cells, PtdIns3P-containing vesicles strongly accumulated at the growing edges of the newly formed cell plate (Figure 9a–c; Supplementary Movies S15 and S16). A maximal projection of an image stack of a dividing YFP–2xFYVE-transformed cell is depicted in Figure 9(c). It shows that the PtdIns3P-containing vesicles completely surround the newly formed cell plate as a ring, but, importantly, did not label the cell plate itself. [[FIGURE]] Earlier, FM4-64 had been shown to be rapidly internalized into newly formed cell plates (CITATION; CITATION). When FM4-64 was added and dividing cells analysed (Supplementary Movies S17 and S18), a clear cloud of PtdIns3P vesicles was visible as a belt, surrounding the newly formed FM4-64-labelled cell plate (Figure 9e–j). These results suggest that PtdIns3P is involved in transport of vesicles to the new cell membrane, but is itself excluded from it.
!~MM~! Constructs were made using standard molecular biological methods. To create pGreen35S::YFP–2xFYVE, the tandem fusion of the FYVE domain of mouse Hrs was amplified from the plasmid pGEM-myc–2xFYVEHrs, (kindly provided by Dr H. Stenmark, The Norwegian Radium Hospital, Oslo, Norway) using the following primers: XhoI-FYVEfwd 5′-CCGCTCGAGTGAATTTATCAATTGAATTCGAAAGTG-3′ and BclHP2FYVErev 5′-CCGTGATCAATAGAATACAAGCTTGGGCTGCAG-3′. The 0.5 kb fragment was transferred to XhoI- and BamHI-digested pGreen-1K-EYFP, with the additional Q69K mutation to decrease pH stability, containing a double CaMV 35S promoter and an NPTII gene for selection. To generate pMON35S::YFP–2xFYVE, a 0.8 kb EcoRI- and SmaI-digested 2-xFYVE and nos terminator-containing fragment was transferred to EcoRI- and SmaI-digested pMONd35S::sYFP2. For double transformations, the YFP–2xFYVE Tnos fragment was transferred to pBIN+d35S using XbaI and SmaI, yielding pBIN+d35S::YFP–2xFYVE. The Golgi marker pMONd35S::STtmd–CFP was created by exchanging YFP for CFP in pMONd35S::STtmd–YFP, kindly provided by Dr J. Carette (Wageningen University, The Netherlands), using NcoI and BamHI. To create pCambiad35S::STtmd–CFP, the d35S::STCFP–Tnos cassette was released from pMONd35S::STtmd–CFP using HindIII and SmaI and transferred to pCambia1390 digested with HindIII and SmaI. The endosomal marker pMONd35S::mRFP–AtRABF2b (ARA7) was created by amplifying ARA7 from pHTSB-GFP–ARA7, kindly provided by Dr A. Nakano (RIKEN, Tokyo, Japan), using the following primers: JV-ARA7Accfw 5′–CATGTCCGGAGGATCTGGAGCTGCAGCTGGAAACAAG-3′ and JV-ARA7TbamHI 5′-CGGGATCCCTAAGCACAACAAGATGAG-3′. Subsequently, the fragment was transferred to pmRFPc1, using AccIII and BamHI. The mRFP–ARA7 fusion was transferred using NheI and BamHI to pMON999d35S digested with XbaI and BamHI. The d35S::mRFP–AtRABF2b–Tnos cassette was transferred to pCambia1390 using HindIII and SmaI. The mRFP was kindly provided by Dr R.Y. Tsien, (University of California, San Diego, CA, USA). Wortmannin and Mas7 were from Sigma (Sigma-Aldrich, Zwijndrecht, The Netherlands). Wortmannin was dissolved in DMSO (10 mm) and Mas7 in water (700 μm). Cell-free medium (CFM) was obtained spinning down 10 ml of cells at 3600 g for 5 min. Subsequently, supernatant was passed through a 0.22 μm filter yielding CFM. FM4-64 [N-(3-triethylammonium-propyl)-4-(6-(4-(diethylamino)phenyl)hexatrienyl) pyridinium dibromide; Invitrogen, Carlsbad CA, USA] was added to the cells to a final concentration of 4 ±m. After 5 min, the cells were washed once and immediately observed under the microscope. The YFP–2xFYVE fusion was transferred to the pGEX-KG vector and transformed into E. coli strain BL21(DE3). Expression was induced with 1 mm IPTG for 9 h at 20°C, and proteins were extracted using lysozyme and one round of freeze/thaw and sonication (CITATION). GST–YFP–2xFYVE was purified using 1 ml GSTrap FF columns (Amersham Pharmacia Biosciences, Amersham, Buckinghamshire, UK). Pure protein was quantified and stored at −20°C until use in the protein lipid overlay assay. Determination of the phosphoinositide-binding properties of GST–YFP–2xFYVE was performed by the protein–lipid overlay assay, essentially as described by CITATION. All seven PPI isomers (18:1 CellSignals Inc., Lexington, KY, USA) were spotted onto a Hybond-C extra membrane (Amersham Pharmacia Biosciences) at various concentrations, and subsequently incubated with GST–YFP–2xFYVE fusion protein (0.5 μg ml−1). Binding was detected using an anti-GST antibody (Santa Cruz Biotechnology Inc., Santa Cruz, CA, USA) and visualized by chemoluminescence. Cowpea (V. unguiculata L.) protoplasts were prepared from 10-day-old plants and transfected with 10 μg of plasmid DNA using the polyethylene glycol method as described by CITATION. For single and double transformations of tobacco BY-2 cells, binary vectors were transformed into the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA4404. Bacteria were grown overnight. Next day, cultures were diluted to an OD600 of 0.25 and grown for 6 h at 28°C. Subsequently, 200 μl (or twice 100 μl in double transformations) of the Agrobacterium suspension plus acetosyringone, final concentration of 200 μm, was added to 8 ml of 4-day-old BY-2 cells in a Petri dish. After 3–5 days of incubation in the dark at 25°C, cells were washed twice with fresh medium and plated onto BY-2 agar plates, containing appropriate antibiotics for selection, and incubated further for another 3–4 weeks in the dark at 25°C. Positive calli, examined for fluorescence using a fluorescence stereo microscope, were transferred to a fresh BY-2 agar plate containing appropriate antibiotics. After 2 weeks, fluorescent calli were transferred to liquid BY-2 medium and sub-cultured weekly. A. thaliana cv. Columbia plants were transformed using A. tumefaciens strain EHA105, carrying pGreend35S::YFP–2xFYVE, using the standard floral dip method (CITATION). Kanamycin-resistant T2 plants were selected for fluorescence using a fluorescence stereomicroscope. Homozygous T3 plants were used for microscopy. Seeds were vapour-sterilized and germinated on 0.5 × MS plates containing 1% agarose and 1% sucrose. BY-2 cells (4–5 days old) or protoplasts (17 h after transfection) were mounted in eight-chambered cover slides (Nalge Nunc International, Rochester, NY, USA). Arabidopsis seedlings were germinated for 3–4 days at 20°C and then transferred to object slides containing a fixed coverslide, separated by a spacer of approximately 0.32 mm. This created a microchamber to grow Arabidopsis seedlings (1–2 days in 0.5 × MS + 1% sucrose at 20°C) and could directly be used for microscopy. Fluorescence microscopy was performed using a Zeiss LSM 510 CLSM (confocal laser scanning microscope) (Carl-Zeiss GMBH, Jena, Germany), implemented on an inverted microscope (Axiovert 100, Carl-Zeiss GMBH, Jena, Germany). Excitation was provided by the 458, 488 and 514 nm Ar laser, 543 nm HeNe and 568 Kr lines controlled by an acousto-optical tuneable filter. Single- and dual-colour imaging were performed using single or dual excitation. For YFP/chlorophyll fluorescence, we used excitation/emission combinations of 514 nm/BP530–600 for YFP and LP650 for chlorophyll, in combination with the HFT458/514 primary, NFT635 secondary and NFT515 tertiary dichroic splitters. For YFP/FM4-64 dual scanning, the excitation/emission combinations of 488 nm/BP505–550 for YFP and 543 nm/LP650 for FM4-64 were used, in combination with the HFT488/543 primary, NFT570 secondary and NFT515 tertiary dichroic splitters. For CFP/YFP dual scanning, we used the excitation/emission combinations of 458 nm/BP470–500 for CFP and 514 nm/BP530–600 for YFP, in combination with the HFT458/514 primary, NFT635 secondary and NFT490 tertiary dichroic splitters. For YFP/mRFP dual scanning, we used the excitation/emission combinations of 488 nm/BP505–550 for YFP and 568 nm/LP585 for mRFP, in combination with the HFT488/568 primary, NFT570 secondary and NFT515 tertiary dichroic splitter. Cross-talk free images were acquired by operating the microscope in the multi-tracking mode. A Zeiss water-immersion C-Apochromat 40 × objective lens (NA 1.2), corrected for cover glass thickness, was used for scanning. Images were captured and analysed with zeiss lsm510 software (version 3.2 SP3). BY-2 cells (4–5 days old, weekly sub-cultured) were pre-labelled with 32 PO (carrier-free, Amersham Pharmacia Biosciences) for 3 h and subsequently treated by adding an equal volume of cell-free medium with or without either agonist or inhibitor at the indicated concentrations. Lipids were extracted, separated by thin layer chromatography, and quantified by phospho-imaging as described previously (CITATION; Munnik et al., 1994a, 1996). PtdIns3P levels were determined by deacylating the lipid extract with mono-methylamine and analysing the glycerophosphoinositides by anion-exchange HPLC as described previously (CITATION; Munnik et al., 1994a,b).
