!~ABS~! Plants use sophisticated strategies to balance responses to oxidative stress. Programmed cell death, including the hypersensitive response (HR) associated with successful pathogen recognition, is one cellular response regulated by reactive oxygen in various cellular contexts. The Arabidopsis basic leucine zipper (bZIP) transcription factor AtbZIP10 shuttles between the nucleus and the cytoplasm and binds consensus G‐ and C‐box DNA sequences. Surprisingly, AtbZIP10 can be retained outside the nucleus by LSD1, a protein that protects Arabidopsis cells from death in the face of oxidative stress signals. We demonstrate that AtbZIP10 is a positive mediator of the uncontrolled cell death observed in lsd1 mutants. AtbZIP10 and LSD1 act antagonistically in both pathogen‐induced HR and basal defense responses. LSD1 likely functions as a cellular hub, where its interaction with AtbZIP10 and additional, as yet unidentified, proteins contributes significantly to plant oxidative stress responses.
!~RES~! Four of the 75 predicted Arabidopsis bZIP proteins define the group C (parsley CPRF2‐like) clade most closely related to PcCPRF2 (AtbZIP9, AtbZIP10, AtbZIP25 and AtbZIP63; Supplementary Figure 1). Polypeptide sequence alignment of these Arabidopsis bZIPs with PcCPRF2 revealed common bZIP TF motifs: a DNA‐binding basic region, an extended leucine zipper responsible for homo‐ and heterodimerization, bipartite nuclear localization sequences and four domains idiosyncratic for group C bZIPs (Supplementary Figure 1A). The group C Arabidopsis bZIPs, including AtbZIP10, bind G‐box elements (5′‐CACGTG‐3′; CITATION). We extended these findings to the related C‐box element (5′‐GACGTC‐3′; Supplementary Figure 1). Competition experiments with excess non‐labeled native or mutated G‐box (5′‐CACTGG‐3′) or C‐box (5′‐GCAGTC‐3′) oligonucleotides revealed that the binding of both by AtbZIP10 required intact ACGT core sequences (Supplementary Figure 1C; data not shown). We analyzed the intracellular distribution of AtbZIP10‐GFP and AtbZIP63‐GFP in transiently transformed, dark‐incubated parsley and Arabidopsis protoplasts. AtbZIP63‐GFP was exclusively localized to the nucleus, but AtbZIP10‐GFP was observed in both the nucleus and the cytoplasm (parsley protoplasts, FIG-REF; Arabidopsis protoplasts, FIG-REF, upper row). Irradiation of transformed protoplasts for 16 h with white, red, far‐red or blue light did not induce any change in the intracellular distribution of AtbZIP10‐GFP (C Näke and K Harter, unpublished). We concluded that signal(s) other than light control the nuclear access of AtbZIP10, or that its distribution is uncontrolled. [[FIGURE]] We anticipated that AtbZIP10 might be shuttled between the cytoplasm and the nucleus. We transiently expressed either AtbZIP10‐GFP, an artificial shuttling control protein called GFP‐NLS‐CHS‐NES (comprised of GFP, a nuclear localization signal (NLS), chalcone synthase (CHS) and a nuclear export signal (NES); CITATION) or GFP in protoplasts treated with the nuclear export inhibitor leptomycin B (LMB; CITATION). LMB limited AtbZIP10‐GFP and the GFP‐NLS‐CHS‐NES protein to the nucleus, but did not influence the localization of passively diffusing GFP (FIG-REF). Thus, AtbZIP10 is actively shuttled from the nucleus to the cytoplasm under these conditions. This conclusion is supported by our finding that AtbZIP10 interacts with Arabidopsis nuclear export factor XPO1 (CITATION) in the yeast two‐hybrid system. The first 105 amino acids of AtbZIP10 are required for interaction with XPO1, suggesting that the NES is localized within this region (Supplementary Figure 2). We propose that an active retention mechanism might interfere with NLS‐mediated nuclear import of AtbZIP10, and hence control its distribution. To identify proteins that might retain AtbZIP10 in the cytoplasm, we extended the nuclear transportation trap (NTT) system for retention screening in yeast (CITATION; FIG-REF). Yeast cells producing LexAD‐AtbZIP10 were transformed with an Arabidopsis cDNA expression library. Transformants were replica plated onto media without leucine. Clones displaying reduced growth on this media should contain plasmids encoding a cytoplasmic LexAD‐AtbZIP10 retention factor (FIG-REF). From 80 000 replica‐plated transformants, one clone reproducibly reduced the growth of LexAD‐AtbZIP10‐expressing yeast on media lacking leucine. It encoded LSD1, a negative regulator of plant cell death (CITATION). Yeast expressing LexAD‐AtbZIP10 exhibited reduced growth in the presence of LSD1 (FIG-REF, upper panel), but grew equally well on non‐selective media (FIG-REF, lower panel). Thus, expression of LSD1 with LexAD‐AtbZIP10 does not alter yeast viability. LSD1 did not alter the nuclear activity of LexAD‐NLS or LexAD‐AtbZIP63 (FIG-REF). We used the NTT system to define the yeast compartment where LSD1 exerts its function on AtbZIP10. Yeast expressing LexAD‐LSD1 on media selective for nuclear activity did not grow (FIG-REF), indicating that LSD1 is predominantly cytoplasmic in yeast, interacts with AtbZIP10 outside of the nucleus, and retains it there. [[FIGURE]] LSD1 interacted with AtbZIP10 in yeast, but not with AtbZIP63, AtbZIP25 or PcCPRF2 (FIG-REF). The second and third zinc‐fingers of LSD1 were required for this interaction, yet neither of these zinc‐fingers alone, nor the small domain between them, was sufficient for it (FIG-REF). The C‐terminal region of AtbZIP10 was sufficient for interaction with LSD1 (FIG-REF). This C‐terminal domain is the least conserved region among the class C bZIP TFs (Supplementary Figure 1A), potentially explaining why AtbZIP10 is the only member of this clade that interacts with LSD1. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The AtbZIP NLS sequences are near the amino terminus and overlap the basic DNA‐binding domain (Supplementary Figure 1A), yet it is the AtbZIP10 C‐terminus that interacts with LSD1 (FIG-REF). We tested whether LSD1 could interfere with AtbZIP10 DNA binding in vitro. Recombinant (His)6‐tagged LSD1, AtbZIP10 and AtbZIP63 proteins were purified on Ni‐NTA (FIG-REF). Incubation of LSD1 with AtbZIP10 before addition of labeled C‐box oligonucleotide reduced AtbZIP10 DNA binding (FIG-REF, left). In contrast, only very weak inhibition of DNA binding was observed when AtbZIP10 was mixed with the C‐box oligonucleotide before addition of LSD1 (FIG-REF, middle). Addition of LSD1 to C‐box oligonucleotide did not block subsequent AtbZIP63 DNA binding (FIG-REF, right). BSA could not substitute for LSD1 (not shown). Thus, interaction of LSD1 with the AtbZIP10 C‐terminus can hinder the NLS located within the basic DNA‐binding domain. LSD1 is not able to actively remove AtbZIP10 once the latter is bound to DNA. Epitope‐tagged LSD1, driven by its native promoter, is soluble and complements an lsd1 null allele (Supplementary Figure 3A–D). We could not detect epitope‐tagged AtbZIP10 expressed from its native promoter reliably; so we resorted to either conditional expression or constitutive expression from the viral 35S promoter of cauliflower mosaic virus. In the latter case, HA‐epitope‐tagged AtbZIP10 complements an atbzip10 null allele (Supplementary Figure 3E), and accumulates to approximately 10‐fold lower levels than does AtbZIP10 expressed conditionally (not shown). We conditionally overexpressed AtbZIP10 both in wild‐type Col‐0 and lsd1 mutant plants and studied the localization of AtbZIP10 after cell fractionation (FIG-REF). In Col‐0 [Est‐AtbZIP10‐HA] plants, AtbZIP10 is detectable both in the soluble (S) and the microsomal‐nuclear fraction (M) at 90 and 180 min after induction (FIG-REF, left). In lsd1‐2 [Est‐AtbZIP10] plants, AtbZIP10 localized exclusively to the nuclear‐enriched microsomal fraction (FIG-REF, right), indicating that LSD1 normally slows the accumulation of newly synthesized AtbZIP10 in the nucleus. Weak, constitutive overexpression of AtbZIP10 leads to its accumulation in both soluble and microsomal‐nuclear fractions (FIG-REF, time 0). Based on the results in FIG-REF, we reasoned that conditional overexpression of LSD1 in this context would increase the relative amount of AtbZIP10 in the soluble fraction if their interaction was part of the control of AtbZIP10 localization. FIG-REF demonstrates that this was the case, despite a reproducible and modest increase in total AtbZIP10 levels over this time course. To provide a third, independent confirmation that LSD1 can retain AtbZIP10 in the cytosol, we analyzed the intracellular distribution of constitutively overexpressed AtbZIP10‐GFP (P35S:AtbZIP10‐GFP) in the presence or absence of untagged LSD1 (PLSD1:LSD1) in Arabidopsis protoplasts (FIG-REF). In the absence of LSD1, 82% of transformed protoplasts exhibited mixed cytoplasmic/nuclear distribution of AtbZIP10‐GFP, whereas only 18% of the cells exhibited only cytosolic AtbZIP10‐GFP accumulation (n=142). In contrast, when the LSD1 construct was cotransformed, 34% of the cells displayed exclusive accumulation of AtbZIP10‐GFP in the cytoplasm (n=96). Coexpression with LSD1 did not alter the nuclear localization of AtbZIP63 (FIG-REF; n=102). These data indicate that native expression levels of LSD1 are sufficient to retain a significant amount of AtbZIP10 in the cytoplasm. Retention of AtbZIP10 by LSD1 implies a direct interaction between these two proteins. We used bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC; CITATION; CITATION) to demonstrate that LSD1 and AtbZIP10 can interact in plant cells. AtbZIP10 fused to N‐terminal (YFPN) or C‐terminal fragments (YFPC) of YFP and transiently overexpressed in tobacco epidermal leaf cells yielded strong YFP fluorescence either exclusively in the nucleus (83% of cells) or in both the cytoplasm and the nucleus (17% of cells; n=129), suggesting that AtbZIP10 can form homodimers under these conditions (FIG-REF, upper left). Transient overexpression of LSD1‐YFP fusions showed that homodimeric LSD1 accumulated in both the cytoplasm and the nucleus in 100% of cells (n=95; FIG-REF, upper right; see below). Co‐overexpression of LSD1‐YFPN and AtbZIP10‐YFPC reduced significantly the fraction of cells expressing exclusively nuclear fluorescence (from 83 to 31%), whereas the fraction of cells expressing fluorescence in both compartments increased significantly (from 17 to 69%) (FIG-REF, lower left; n=145). No BiFC signals were detected when AtbZIP63‐YFPC was coexpressed with LSD1‐YFPN, indicating that the interaction of AtbZIP10 with LSD1 was specific (FIG-REF, lower right). Although we do not know whether the BiFC constructs used are functional, and although the wild‐type LSD1 subcellular fractionation is altered by overexpression, these results demonstrate that AtbZIP10 and LSD1 can interact in plant cells. We identified a T‐DNA insertion into AtbZIP10 in Col‐0. We constructed a conditional overexpression AtbZIP10 allele using an estradiol‐inducible promoter system (CITATION) in addition to the constitutive overexpression allele described above. Transgenics were generated in both Col‐0 and the Col‐0 lsd1‐2 allele. AtbZIP10 expressed from the estradiol‐inducible system accumulates to ∼10‐fold higher levels than from the constitutive promoter (data not shown). To define genetic interactions between AtbZIP10 and LSD1, we generated the lsd1‐2 atbzip10 double mutant. Five‐week‐old Col‐0, atbzip10, lsd1‐2 and lsd1‐2 atbzip10 plants were sprayed with 150 μM benzo(1,2,3)‐thiadiazole‐7‐carbothioic acid S‐methyl ester (BTH), a salicylic acid analog that induces runaway cell death (rcd) in lsd1, but does not induce cell death in Col‐0. We measured ion leakage of these samples over time, a readout correlated with plant cell death (CITATION). lsd1‐2 samples exhibited increased ion leakage, reaching half‐maximal conductivity at ∼105 h post application (hpa), whereas Col‐0 and atbzip10 samples displayed only a very slight increase in conductivity. The lsd1‐2 atbzip10 double mutant displayed significant reduction of ion leakage compared to lsd1‐2 (FIG-REF). Conversely, weak overexpression of AtbZIP10 in lsd1‐2 (genotype 35S‐AtbZIP10 lsd1‐2) enhanced dramatically BTH‐induced ion leakage, a phenotype so pronounced that we needed to measure conductivity at earlier time points compared to lsd1‐2 (FIG-REF). Conductivity in 35S‐AtbZIP10 lsd1‐2 reached half‐maximum by ∼40 hpa. Control Col‐0 and 35S‐AtbZIP10 samples showed little increase in conductivity. We also demonstrated that AtbZIP10 function is required for superoxide‐induced lsd1 rcd (data not shown), indicating that AtbZIP10 is a positive regulator of rcd in lsd1 and not merely a mediator of BTH response. [[FIGURE]] Hyaloperonospora parasitica (Hp) is an obligate biotrophic oomycete parasite well suited for characterization of disease resistance responses. Different RPP disease resistance genes control the recognition of different Hp isolates. Their action leads to hypersensitive cell death (HR) and cessation of pathogen growth. For weak RPP genes, the degree of HR correlates with Hp hyphal growth. In susceptible (rpp) plants, virulent Hp isolates grow and cause downy mildew, despite a plant basal defense response (CITATION). We investigated whether AtbZIP10 has a function in either RPP2‐mediated HR (CITATION) or basal defense. We included the transgenic Est‐AtbZIP10 line described above, and we generated a similar Est‐LSD1 line for conditional estradiol‐inducible overexpression of LSD1. We probed RPP2 function by infecting 12‐day‐old seedlings with Hp Cala2. Sites of host cell death and Hp structures were stained with Trypan blue at 5 dpi. We evaluated microscopically the interaction sites and classified them as described in FIG-REF. A reduction in the percentage of HR sites, and corresponding increases in trailing necrosis (TN) or free hyphae (FH) interaction sites, reflects decreased RPP2 function (CITATION). The control genotypes, including Col‐0 (FIG-REF, black labels), uniformly exhibited a high percentage of TN interactions, typical of the weak RPP2 phenotype (CITATION). lsd1‐2 was completely resistant (HR at 100% of interaction sites; CITATION). We observed reproducible and significant decreases in RPP2 function in atbzip10 (see Supplementary Table 1 and Materials and methods for statistics). By contrast, resistance was significantly enhanced in both 35S‐AtbZIP10 compared to Col‐0, and in estradiol‐treated Est‐AtbZIP10 compared to either untreated controls or Col‐0 treated with estradiol. The lsd1‐2 atbzip10 double mutant was completely resistant, like lsd1. We conclude that (1) loss of AtbZIP10 function suppressed RPP2‐mediated disease resistance, whereas AtbZIP10 overexpression enhanced it, and (2) loss of LSD1 enhanced RPP2‐mediated disease resistance, whereas LSD1 overexpression only marginally suppressed it. Thus, antagonistic functions of LSD1 and AtbZIP10 modulate RPP2‐mediated disease resistance response, presumably via their antagonistic control of host cell death. It is likely that LSD1 regulates other proteins in addition to AtbZIP10, as the lsd1‐2 atbzip10 exhibits the lsd1 phenotype. [[FIGURE]] To assay basal defense, 12‐day‐old seedlings were inoculated with Hp Emco5. At 5 dpi, we counted sporangiophores per cotyledon (FIG-REF). Approximately 55% of the cotyledons in each control genotype (labeled black, FIG-REF) exhibited heavy sporulation. The lack of variation across these control genotypes confirmed that this assay was sensitive and robust. Sporulation was drastically reduced in lsd1‐2 (CITATION). The atbzip10 mutant displayed a significant increase in susceptibility. By contrast, both constitutive and conditional overexpression of AtbZIP10 led to significantly decreased susceptibility compared to appropriate controls (FIG-REF and Supplementary Table 2). Finally, although both lsd1‐2 and lsd1‐2 atbzip10 exhibited decreased sporulation compared to Col‐0, lsd1‐2 was significantly more resistant than lsd1‐2 atbzip10, suggesting that AtbZIP10 functions as a positive regulator of basal defense (Supplementary Table 2) We predicted that overexpression of AtbZIP10 in the lsd1 mutant background should result in added resistance to Hp Emco5. Indeed, 22% of lsd1‐2 Est‐AtbZIP10 cotyledons treated with estradiol did not support Hp Emco5 sporulation at 4 dpi, whereas only 5% of lsd1‐2 exhibited this phenotype (FIG-REF and Supplementary Table 3). Overexpression of AtbZIP10 did not lead to increased cell death following Hp Emco5 infection, and there is no increase in cell death in Hp Emco5‐infected lsd1‐2 (data not shown; CITATION). Thus, enhanced resistance to Hp Emco5 is due to enhanced basal defense that is apparently independent of cell death. We conclude that (1) AtbZIP10 is a positive regulator of basal defense, as its loss resulted in increased Hp sporulation and its overexpression resulted in the opposite phenotype; (2) LSD1 is a negative regulator of basal defense, as its loss led to decreased Hp sporulation; (3) LSD1 and AtbZIP10 act antagonistically in this process; and (4) LSD1 may regulate additional, unidentified positive mediators of basal defense. We infer this because lsd1‐2 atbzip10, although significantly less resistant than lsd1, still more closely resembles lsd1 than atbzip10.
!~MM~! (His)6‐tagged AtbZIP10, AtbZIP63 and LSD1 cDNAs were cloned into pET24b (Novagen) via EcoRI/SalI (AtbZIP10, LSD1) or NheI/XhoI (AtbZIP63). For the constitutive Gal4‐based yeast two‐hybrid analyses, LSD1 was introduced via EcoRI/BamHI into pGADT7, AtbZIP10 via EcoRI/SalI and AtbZIP25 and AtbZIP63 via BamHI/SalI into pGBT9. For galactose‐inducible yeast two‐hybrid analyses, AtbZIP10 cDNA fragments were cloned into the pB42‐AD vector. pGILDA‐AtXPO1 is from CITATION. The constructs for retention screening and for nuclear accumulation assays in yeast were generated by cloning AtbZIP10 and LSD1 via EcoRI/SalI and AtbZIP63 via NotI/SalI into pNS (CITATION). To identify interaction domains on LSD1 and AtbZIP10, full‐length and deletion clones were cloned into pEG202 and pJG4‐5 (CITATION), respectively. For BiFC, AtbZIP10 was cloned into the binary vectors pSPYNE‐35S and pSPYCE‐35S; BiFC constructs of LSD1 and AtbZIP63 were as described (CITATION). The AtbZIP10 cDNA with a C‐terminal HA tag was cloned into pBAR1(35S) (CITATION). For conditional overexpression, AtbZIP10 and LSD1 cDNA clones (the latter with C‐terminal 6.5xc‐myc tag; LSD1‐myc) were cloned into pER8 (CITATION). All clones were sequence verified. Small‐scale transformation of yeast cells (EGY48, EGY48[p8op‐lacZ], EGY48[p2op‐lacZ] and PJ69‐4A) for two‐hybrid and intracellular localization assays was by the PEG/lithium acetate method (CITATION), or with the Frozen‐EZ Yeast Transformation II Kit (Zymo Research). Reporter gene activity was determined by plating the transformants on CSM‐W,L media (selection for plasmids) or CSM‐W,L,A (selection for protein–protein interactions). Selection of transformants for deletion assays was carried out by plating on CSM‐H,U,W. LacZ reporter gene test (β‐galactosidase activity) was as described (CITATION). For intracellular localization assays based on the NTT system (CITATION), EGY48 yeast cell suspensions transformed with either a pNS construct alone or a pNS construct in combination with a pFL construct were plated at an identical OD600 nm on plasmid selecting media (CSM‐H or CSM‐H,U, respectively) and on media selecting for nuclear localization (CSM‐H,L or CSM‐H,U,L) and grown for 48 h at 30°C. Large‐scale transformation of the EGY48 yeast strain (CITATION) expressing LexAD‐AtbZIP10 (His autotroph) as bait with the pFL Arabidopsis cDNA prey library (CITATION) was used for retention screening. Transformants were plated on CSM‐H,U medium and incubated at 30°C for 3 days. Colonies were replica plated onto CSM‐H,U,L media using silk pads and grown for 4 days at 30°C. Transformants showing normal growth on CSM‐H,U plates, but reduced growth on CSM‐H,U,L plates were re‐grown in liquid CSM‐H,U to OD600 nm of 2.0. Suspensions were diluted in three 1:10 steps with CSM‐H,U, dotted on CSM‐H,U and incubated for 4 days at 30°C. Bait and prey plasmids were recovered from yeast strains with normal growth on CSM‐H,U but reduced growth on CSM‐H,U,L, amplified in Escherichia coli, and inserts of the pFL plasmids were sequenced. Yeast EGY48 was re‐transformed with the bait and prey plasmids and the growth assay was repeated to verify differential growth. Protoplasts from dark‐grown parsley cell suspension cultures (Petroselinum crispum L.) were grown and transformed by electroporation (CITATION). Tobacco protoplasts from a dark‐grown BY2 cell suspension culture were grown and transformed by PEG (CITATION). Protoplasts were assayed for fluorescence 12–20 h after transfection. Leaves from 2‐ to 4‐week‐old Nicotiana benthamiana plants were transiently transformed with Agrobacterium tumefaciens using the tomato bushy stunt virus p19 protein to suppress gene silencing (CITATION). Co‐infiltration of Agrobacterium strains containing BiFC constructs and the p19 silencing plasmid was at OD600 nm of 0.7:0.7:1.0. Epifluorescence and confocal laser scanning microscopy were performed 1–2 days after infiltration (CITATION). We used the Columbia (Col‐0) ecotype and isogenic SALK insertion lines (CITATION) for atbzip10 (At4g02640; SALK_014867; insertion in codon Asp94 of exon one) and lsd1‐2 (At4g20380; SALK_042687; insertion at nucleotide 57 of intron four; Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center at Ohio State University). Transgenic plants were generated by A. tumefaciens‐mediated transformation (CITATION). F1 plants from crosses between lsd1‐2 [Est‐AtbZIP10‐HA] × Col‐0 and lsd1‐2 [Est‐AtbZIP10‐HA] × lsd1‐2 plants were sprayed with 20 μM estradiol at 0 and 60 min. F1 plants from a cross between estradiol‐inducible LSD1‐myc and 35S‐AtbZIP10‐HA plants were sprayed with 20 μM estradiol at 0 and 4 hpa. Leaf tissue (150–200 mg) was harvested after induction and homogenized in 750 μl of sucrose buffer (20 mM Tris–HCl pH 8, 330 mM sucrose, 1 mM EDTA, 1 mM PMSF, 5 mM DTT and 1 × protease inhibitor cocktail (Sigma)). After brief centrifugation (1000 g, 10 min, 4°C) to remove cell debris, 200 μl of the supernatant was transferred to another tube and used as ‘total protein (T)’. Another 200 μl of the supernatant was transferred to a second tube and centrifuged at 50 000 g for 45 min at 4°C. The pellet was re‐suspended in 200 μl sucrose buffer and used as ‘membrane and nuclear‐enriched fraction’ (M), and the supernatant was used as ‘soluble fraction’ (S). Equal volumes were loaded onto an SDS–PAGE gel. Western blot and protein detection were performed with anti‐APX antibody (gift of Daniel Kliebenstein) at 1:10 000, anti‐histone H3 antibody (Abcam, Cambridge, MA) at 1:5000, anti‐RD28 (gift from Marteen Chrispeels) and standard anti‐myc and anti‐HA antibodies. Conductivity assays were performed on 5‐week‐old plants sprayed two times (4 h interval) with 150 μM BTH (CITATION). Leaves were harvested at 18 and 64 hpa (FIG-REF, respectively), leaf disks were removed with a 7‐mm‐diameter cork borer and floated on distilled water for 45 min. Six leaf disks per genotype were transferred to a tube containing 6 ml of distilled water. Conductivity was measured in μS/cm with an Orion (Boston) Conductivity Meter at indicated time points. Means and 2 × standard error were calculated from five replicate measurements per genotype per experiment (a total of 30 leaf disks per genotype per experiment). The experiment was repeated twice. Twelve‐day‐old seedlings were inoculated with the virulent Hp isolate Emco5 and sporangiophores counted at 4–5 dpi as described (CITATION). Twelve‐day‐old seedlings were inoculated with 5 × 104 spores/ml of avirulent Hp isolate Cala2. Cotyledons were stained with Trypan blue (CITATION) at 5 dpi to visualize host cell death and oomycete structures. One randomly chosen interaction site on between 87 and 104 cotyledons per genotype was evaluated and classified. The experiment was repeated three times. We used standard contingency table analyses for sequential pairwise comparisons between relevant genetic backgrounds (CITATION). The null hypothesis states that the category distributions (i.e., types of interaction site for FIG-REF and numbers of sporangiophores for FIG-REF) for any comparison are the same. The χ2 and P‐values for each pairwise comparison are presented in Supplementary Tables 1, 2 and 3. We initially designated P⩽0.05 as our nominal significance threshold. To adjust for the different number of pairwise comparisons in each data set, the threshold P‐values were corrected by the Bonferroni method (CITATION; for Supplementary Table 1, 0.005; for Supplementary Table 2, 0.0045; for Supplementary Table 3, 0.007). For the comparison of Col‐0 to atbzip10 in FIG-REF, two independent experiments suggested, but did not establish, a statistically significant difference (P‐values of 0.0227 and 0.1228). In this case, we used Fisher's combined probability statistic (−2∑ln P=−2(∑−3.7854, −2.0956)=χ2 value 11.72 at 4 degrees of freedom) to reject the null hypothesis of no difference between the Col‐0 and atbzip10 distributions, confirming significance. Supplementary data are available at The EMBO Journal Online (http://www.embojournal.org).
