!~ABS~! Despite much study of the role of S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) in the methylation of DNA, RNA, and proteins, and as a cofactor for a wide range of biosynthetic processes, little is known concerning the intracellular transport of this essential metabolite. Screening of the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) genome yielded two potential homologs of yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) and human SAM transporters, designated as SAMC1 and SAMC2, both of which belong to the mitochondrial carrier protein family. The SAMC1 gene is broadly expressed at the organ level, although only in specialized tissues of roots with high rates of cell division, and appears to be up-regulated in response to wounding stress, whereas the SAMC2 gene is very poorly expressed in all organs/tissues analyzed. Direct transport assays with the recombinant and reconstituted SAMC1 were utilized to demonstrate that this protein displays a very narrow substrate specificity confined to SAM and its closest analogs. Further experiments revealed that SAMC1 was able to function in uniport and exchange reactions and characterized the transporter as highly active, but sensitive to physiologically relevant concentrations of S-adenosylhomocysteine, S-adenosylcysteine, and adenosylornithine. Green fluorescent protein-based cell biological analysis demonstrated targeting of SAMC1 to mitochondria. Previous proteomic analyses identified this protein also in the chloroplast inner envelope. In keeping with these results, bioinformatics predicted dual localization for SAMC1. These findings suggest that the provision of cytosolically synthesized SAM to mitochondria and possibly also to plastids is mediated by SAMC1 according to the relative demands for this metabolite in the organelles.
!~RES~! By screening the Arabidopsis genome (http://www.arabidopsis.org) with the sequences of yeast Sam5p (CITATION) and human SAMC (CITATION), two homologs have been identified: At4g39460 (GenBank AAK76726) and At1g34065 (GenBank NP_680566), hereafter named SAMC1 and SAMC2, respectively. The SAMC1 and SAMC2 coding sequences were amplified by PCR from an Arabidopsis cDNA library (CITATION). They encoded proteins of 325 and 321 amino acids, respectively, which are 64% identical to one another. The amplified SAMC2 differs from the sequence NP_680566 derived from conceptual translation in that it lacks residues 91 to 96 (NFSGWW) of the previously annotated sequence. The two novel Arabidopsis proteins belong to the mitochondrial carrier family because their amino acid sequences are composed of three tandem repeats of about 100 amino acids, each containing two transmembrane α-helices, linked by an extensive loop, and a conserved signature motif (see Fig. 1 ). However, unlike many members of this family, including Sam5p and SAMC, SAMC1 and SAMC2 appear to have a presequence of nearly 50 amino acids. They share 28% to 29% identical amino acids with Sam5p and SAMC, a percentage that increases to 31% to 34% based on the sequences of SAMC1 and SAMC2 without the first 49 residues. In The Arabidopsis Information Resource database, 28 expressed sequence tags (ESTs) were found for SAMC1, whereas no ESTs were found for SAMC2. During the preparation of this article, an EST has been released in the National Center for Biotechnology Information database (GenBank BP837715) that corresponds to 1 to 377 bp of the SAMC2 coding sequence, except for a few base discrepancies most likely due to the different ecotypes sequenced (Columbia [Col] versus Landsberg). Taken together, these data indicate that SAMC1 is expressed at a significantly higher level than SAMC2, although both genes are transcriptionally active. [[FIGURE]] In a preliminary northern-blot analysis, SAMC1 expression was found in flowers, leaves, stems, and seedlings, whereas no SAMC2 expression was detected (data not shown). We then determined gene expression levels by real-time reverse transcription (RT)-PCR using the housekeeping elongation factor (EF) 1α gene as an internal control (Fig. 2 ). In all organs analyzed, SAMC1 was expressed at higher levels than SAMC2, consistent with digital and conventional northern analyses. The SAMC1 mRNA was expressed most strongly in seedlings. It was also expressed in leaves and flowers and, to a lesser extent, in stems and roots. SAMC2 mRNA was expressed at comparable low levels in all organs analyzed. These results are in close agreement with the data housed in publicly available microarray data collections (CITATION), except for stems, where we found a lower level of expression for SAMC1 than that predicted by Affimetrix and ATH1 gene chip arrays. To investigate organ specificity in more detail, the SAMC1 promoter region was fused transcriptionally to the β-glucuronidase (GUS) gene. During the first stage of vegetative growth, strong expression was observed in cotyledons of postgerminating seedlings in the base of the primary root and in the root tips (Fig. 3A , a). In young seedlings containing two to four true leaves (Fig. 3A, b–d), significant expression was found along the entire primary root, in the base and tips of the lateral roots (but not in the root hair), in the first two true leaves, and, to a lesser extent, in the cotyledons. Progressively reduced staining was observed in young and adult leaves on aging (Figs. 3A, c and e) and virtually no expression was found in senescent leaves, unless they were wounded or damaged (Fig. 3B), or stems (Fig. 3A, f). Expression was, however, also observed in sepals during the early stage of flower development and in mature flowers (Figs. 3A, f–h). No expression was found in petals, pollen grains, and the central septum of pollen tubes, whereas expression was clearly seen at the stigma of the pollen tubes (Figs. 3A, g–h). Furthermore, GUS expression was found in the silique vasculature (Fig. 3A, i). Similar studies performed with SAMC2 did not lead to any significant staining, confirming that SAMC2 is very weakly expressed. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] SAMC1 and SAMC2 proteins were expressed at high levels in E.coli BL21(DE3) (Fig. 4 , lanes 2 and 5). They accumulated as inclusion bodies and were purified by centrifugation and washing (Fig. 4, lanes 3 and 6). The apparent molecular masses of the recombinant proteins were about 35 kD (the calculated values with initiator Met were 34,844 and 34,407 D). The identity of the purified proteins was confirmed by N-terminal sequence analysis. About 100 mg of each purified protein were obtained per liter of culture. The proteins were not detected in cells harvested after induction of expression but lacking the coding sequence in the vector (Fig. 4, lanes 1 and 4) nor in bacteria harvested immediately before induction (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] The recombinant SAMC1 protein was reconstituted into liposomes and its transport activities for a variety of potential substrates were tested in homoexchange experiments (i.e. with the same substrate inside and outside). Using external and internal substrate concentrations of 1 and 10 mm, respectively, the recombinant and reconstituted protein catalyzed an active [3H]SAM/SAM exchange, which was inhibited by a mixture of pyridoxal-5′-P and bathophenanthroline. It did not catalyze homoexchanges for phosphate, carnitine, Glu, Asp, Met, Orn, malate, AMP, and ADP. Of importance, no [3H]SAM/SAM exchange activity was detected if SAMC1 had been boiled before incorporation into liposomes or if sarkosyl-solubilized material was reconstituted from bacterial cells either lacking the expression vector for SAMC1 or harvested immediately before induction of expression. In contrast to SAMC1, recombinant and reconstituted SAMC2 showed no activity under any of the experimental conditions tested, which include variation of the parameters that influence solubilization of the inclusion bodies and reconstitution of the protein into liposomes. The substrate specificity of reconstituted SAMC1 was further investigated by measuring the rate of [3H]SAM uptake into proteoliposomes that had been preloaded with various potential substrates (Fig. 5A ). The highest activity was observed in the presence of internal SAM. [3H]SAM was also efficiently taken up by proteoliposomes containing SAHC and S-adenosylcysteine. Negligible or zero activity was found in the absence of internal substrate (NaCl present) or in the presence of internal Met, Cys, adenosine, cAMP, dAMP, Orn, citrate, and malate. Alternative internal compounds 5′-deoxyadenosine, phosphate, pyruvate, oxoglutarate, Glu, Gln, thiamine, thiamine pyrophosphate, ADP, and NAD+ were also incapable of supporting [3H]SAM uptake (data not shown). Therefore, reconstituted SAMC1 displays a very narrow substrate specificity confined to SAM and its closest analogs. [[FIGURE]] The [3H]SAM/SAM exchange reaction catalyzed by reconstituted SAMC1 was inhibited strongly by tannic acid, bromocresol purple, and the sulfydryl reagents mercuric chloride, mersalyl, and p-hydroxymercuribenzoate (Fig. 5B). It was also inhibited, to a lesser extent, by 2 mm N-ethylmaleimide, 2 mm bathophenanthroline, and 2 mm pyridoxal-5′-P. The latter two inhibitors displayed a synergistic effect, causing complete inhibition of transport activity when added together at higher concentrations. Carboxyatractyloside and bongkrekic acid, which are specific and powerful inhibitors of the mitochondrial ADP/ATP carrier (CITATION; CITATION), exhibited different behavior: carboxyatractyloside inhibited the activity of SAMC1 partially, whereas bongkrekic acid had little effect at a concentration (10 μm) that completely inhibits the ADP/ATP carrier. No inhibition was observed with the pyruvate carrier-specific inhibitor α-cyano-4-hydroxycinnamate (CITATION), whereas [3H]SAM uptake was inhibited strongly by external addition of SAHC, S-adenosylcysteine, and adenosylornithine (sinefungin; Fig. 5C). In contrast, no significant inhibition was observed with external Met, Cys, adenosine, AMP, ATP, Orn, malate (Fig. 5C), or pyruvate, phosphate, oxoglutarate, and Asp (data not shown), when used at a concentration 20 times that of the labeled substrate. The uptake of [3H]SAM into proteoliposomes by exchange (in the presence of 10 mm internal SAM) followed first-order kinetics, isotopic equilibrium being approached exponentially (Fig. 6A ). The rate constant and the initial rate of SAM exchange deduced from the time course (CITATION) were 0.16 min−1 and 0.4 mmol min−1 g−1 protein, respectively. In contrast, the uniport uptake of SAM was very low in proteoliposomes preloaded with NaCl in the absence of internal substrate. The uniport mode of transport was further investigated by measuring the efflux of [3H]SAM from prelabeled active proteoliposomes because this provides a more convenient assay for unidirectional transport (CITATION). In these experiments, little, yet significant, efflux of [3H]SAM from prelabeled proteoliposomes was observed in the absence of external substrate (Fig. 6B). The addition of 5 mm SAM induced a greater efflux of SAM (Fig. 6B), and the efflux either with or without added substrate was prevented by inhibitors of SAM transport (data not shown). Therefore, SAMC1 is able to catalyze both uniport and exchange reactions. [[FIGURE]] The kinetic constants of the recombinant SAMC1 were determined by measuring the initial transport rate at various external [3H]SAM concentrations in the presence of a constant saturating internal concentration of 10 mm SAM. The transport affinity (Km) and specific activity (Vmax) values for SAM/SAM exchange at 25°C were 95 ± 19 μm and 1.2 ± 0.2 mmol min−1 g−1 protein, respectively, in 18 experiments. Externally added SAHC, S-adenosylcysteine, and adenosylornithine were competitive inhibitors of [3H]SAM uptake because they increased the apparent Km without changing the Vmax (data not shown). The inhibition constants (Ki) of SAHC, S-adenosylcysteine, and adenosylornithine were 20.8 ± 3.51 μm, 0.20 ± 0.08 mm, and 1.48 ± 0.33 mm, respectively, in at least three experiments for each inhibitor. Some members of the mitochondrial carrier family are localized in nonmitochondrial membranes (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Using different computer prediction programs, the subcellular localization of SAMC1 was not unequivocal. For example, the ChloroP program predicted plastidial localization with high probability (score 0.85), whereas the iPSort program predicted mitochondrial localization also with high probability (score 0.75). Furthermore, the scores for the chloroplastic and mitochondrial localization obtained by the TargetP and Predotar programs were similar to those found for other proteins that are targeted to both organelles in Arabidopsis (CITATION). We therefore investigated the intracellular localization of ectopically expressed SAMC1 using a GFP-tagged protein (Fig. 7 ). Cells expressing SAMC1-GFP showed a punctate pattern of green fluorescence typical of the mitochondrial network that overlapped with the fluorescence displayed by the mitochondrial-specific dye, MitoTracker Red (Fig. 7A). This situation was similar to that obtained with GFP fused with the functionally characterized mitochondrial malate dehydrogenase (mMDH; CITATION; Fig. 7A). In contrast, the green fluorescence of either SAMC1-GFP or mMDH-GFP did not colocalize with the red autofluorescence of chlorophyll (Fig. 7B). These data show that SAMC1 is efficiently targeted to mitochondria even though it does not exhibit a canonical presequence; they do not, however, refute earlier evidence (CITATION), suggesting that the transporter is also present in the chloroplast envelope. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! [3H]SAM was purchased from NEN Life Science Products. Cardiolipin and sarkosyl (N-lauroylsarcosine) were supplied by Sigma. Egg-yolk phospholipids (egg lecithin) were obtained from Fluka and Amberlite XAD-2 from Supelco. All other reagents were analytical grade. The genome of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) was screened with the sequences of the yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) Sam5p (CITATION) and the human SAMC (CITATION) using BLASTP and TBLASTN. The amino acid sequences were aligned with the ClustalW multiple sequence alignment program (version 1.8; http://www.clustalw.genome.ad.jp). The SAMC1 (accession no. AM260490) and SAMC2 (accession no. AM260491) sequences, showing the lowest e-values, were selected for further study. Total RNA was isolated from frozen organs using TRIzol (Gibco BRL) according to the manufacturer's instructions. RNA concentration was measured and its integrity was checked on a 1.5% agarose gel (w/v). Hybridization was performed as described in CITATION, using specific probes of 237 bp (from −110 to +127 nucleotides of the SAMC1 cDNA) and 176 bp (from +1 to +176 nucleotides of the SAMC2 cDNA) for SAMC1 and SAMC2, respectively. The probes were labeled with a [32P]dCTP by random priming, using the random prime labeling system (Amersham Bioscience). RNA loading was checked with ethidium bromide. Membranes were autoradiographed at −70°C for several days with an intensifying screen. Total RNAs from different organs were reverse transcribed using the GeneAmp RNA PCR core kit (Applied Biosystems) with random hexamers as primers. For real-time PCRs, primers based on the cDNA sequences of SAMC1 and SAMC2 were designed with Primer Express (Applied Biosystems). The forward and reverse primers corresponded to nucleotides 318 to 340 and 398 to 418 for SAMC1, nucleotides 386 to 406 and 406 to 436 for SAMC2, and nucleotides 618 to 639 and 698 to 718 for EF1α. Real-time PCR was performed in an optical 96-well plate using the automated ABI Prism 7000 sequence detection system (Applied Biosystems). Fifty microliters of reaction volume contained 2 μL of template (reverse transcribed first-strand cDNA), 25 μL SYBR Green PCR master mix (Applied Biosystems), and 300 nm each primer. The specificity of PCR amplification was checked with the heat dissociation protocol following the final cycle of PCR. Separation of real-time PCR products on 4% (w/v) agarose gel revealed single bands of the expected size whose identity was confirmed by direct sequencing. To correct for differences in the amount of starting first-strand cDNAs, the Arabidopsis EF1α gene was amplified in parallel as a reference gene. The relative quantification of SAMC1 and SAMC2 in various organs was performed according to the comparative method (2−ΔΔCt; CITATION; CITATION; user bulletin no. 2 [P/N 4303859]; Applied Biosystems), with the stem ΔCt for SAMC2 as calibrator. 2−ΔΔCt = 2−(ΔCt sample−ΔCt calibrator), where ΔCt sample is Ct sample − Ct reference gene and Ct is the threshold cycle (i.e. the PCR cycle number at which emitted fluorescence exceeds 10 times the sd of baseline emissions). For promoter-GUS fusion experiments, the promoter regions of SAMC1 (from −1,146 bp to +6 bp) and SAMC2 (from −1,396 bp to +12 bp) were amplified by PCR from Arabidopsis Col-0 genomic DNA using the following primers: forward, 5′-CACCGGGAGATAATTGAAAGC-3′ and reverse, 5′-AGCCATGAGAAACGCCTCTGACCTAAT-3′ for SAMC1; and forward, 5′-CACCTGAGAGAAAAAGAAAGAAGAAAAAGAAGAGA-3′ and reverse, 5′-GTCACTATCCATCTAAAACCATT-3′ for SAMC2. The PCR products were first cloned into the shuttle vector pENTR/d-TOPO (Invitrogen) and then transferred into the binary Gateway vector pKGWFS7 in frame with the GUS gene (CITATION). The resulting constructs were introduced into Arabidopsis Col-0 plants by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation according to the floral-dip method (CITATION). To select transgenic plants, seeds were germinated on Murashige and Skoog plates (CITATION) containing 1% Suc and supplemented with kanamycin in a growth chamber (250 μmol photons m−2 s−1; 22°C) under a 16-h light/8-h dark regime before transfer to soil in a climate-controlled chamber under the same photoperiod. Samples for GUS activity analysis were harvested 8, 11, 13, or 38 d after germination and stained overnight according to standard protocols (CITATION). PCR primers for SAMC1 (forward, 5′-GGATCCATGGCTCCTCTTACTCTCTCCGT-3′; reverse, 5′-AAGCTTTTATTCTTCTTTGGTTTCTTTAACCGT-3′) and for SAMC2 (forward, 5′-CATAAGCTTATGGATAGTGACATTGTTTCCAGTAGCATA-3′; reverse, 5′-GAATTCTTAAGCATTGTGACTCTTTTGGCTTCT-3′) carrying BamHI and HindIII and HindIII and EcoRI sites, respectively, were used to amplify the predicted open reading frames from an Arabidopsis cDNA library (CITATION). The resulting products were cloned into the pRUN vector (derived from pKN172; CITATION) for expression in Escherichia coli. For subcellular localization of SAMC1 and mMDH, the SAMC1-GFP and the mMDH-GFP fusion constructs were prepared. The coding sequences of SAMC1 and of mMDH without the terminal codon were amplified by PCR using the following primers: forward, 5′-CACCATGGCTCCTCTTACTCTCTCGT-3′ and reverse, 5′-TTCTTCTTTGGTTTCTTTAACCGTATT-3′ for SAMC1; and forward, 5′-CACCATGAGGACCTCCATGTTG-3′ and reverse, 5′-GTTTTCTTTGGCAAACTTGATTC-3′ for tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) mMDH (encoded by AY725474). The resulting products were cloned into the entry vector pENTR/d-TOPO (Invitrogen) using the Gateway recombination system. Subsequently, the SAMC1 or the mMDH coding sequence was recombined into the destination vector pK7FWG2 encoding a C-terminal enhanced GFP under the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter (CITATION; CLONTECH). The inserts were sequenced to confirm identity prior to plant transformation. Protoplasts were prepared from Arabidopsis Col-0 plants (CITATION) grown as described above in the absence of kanamycin. The pK7FWG2 vector containing the coding sequence of GFP, SAMC1-GFP, or mMDH-GFP was introduced into Arabidopsis protoplasts by the polyethylene glycol-mediated transformation method (CITATION). After 36 to 48 h of incubation in the dark at 22°C, protoplasts were imaged using a laser-scanning confocal microscope (Leica DM IRBE microscope; TCS SPII confocal scanner). In some experiments, the transformed protoplasts were incubated in the presence of 400 nm MitoTracker Red CMXRos (Molecular Probes) at 25°C for 30 min and then extensively washed before imaging following the protocol of CITATION. The overproduction of SAMC1 and SAMC2 as inclusion bodies in the cytosol of E. coli BL21(DE3) was accomplished as described (CITATION). Control cultures with empty vector were processed in parallel. Inclusion bodies were purified on a Suc density gradient (CITATION), washed at 4°C with Tris-EDTA buffer (10 mm Tris/HCl, 1 mm EDTA, pH 7.0), then twice with a buffer containing Triton X-114 (3%, w/v), 1 mm EDTA, and 10 mm PIPES/NaOH, pH 7.0, and once again with Tris-EDTA buffer (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The SAMC1 and SAMC2 proteins were solubilized in 1.6% sarkosyl (w/v). Small residues were removed by centrifugation (258,000g for 20 min at 4°C). The recombinant proteins were diluted 7-fold with buffer containing 0.6% Triton X-114, 0.2 mm EDTA, 10 mm PIPES, pH 7.0, and then reconstituted by cyclic removal of detergent (CITATION). The reconstitution mixture consisted of protein solution (0.12 mg), 10% Triton X-114, 10% phospholipids as sonicated liposomes, 10 mm SAM (except where otherwise indicated), cardiolipin (0.7 mg), 20 mm PIPES, pH 7.0, and water (final volume 700 μL). The mixture was recycled 13 times through an Amberlite column (3.2 cm × 0.5 cm) preequilibrated with buffer containing 10 mm PIPES, pH 7.0, and substrate at the same concentration as in the reconstitution mixture. All operations were performed at 4°C, except the passages through Amberlite, which were carried out at room temperature. External substrate was removed from the proteoliposomes on Sephadex G-75 columns preequilibrated with a buffer containing 50 mm NaCl and 10 mm PIPES, pH 7.0 (buffer A). Transport at 25°C was started by adding [3H]SAM to substrate-loaded proteoliposomes (exchange) or to empty proteoliposomes (uniport) and terminated, after the desired time, by the addition of 40 mm pyridoxal-5′-P and 16 mm bathophenantroline (the inhibitor stop method; CITATION). In controls, inhibitors were added together with the labeled substrate. Finally, the external radioactivity was removed on Sephadex G-75 and the radioactivity in the liposomes was measured (CITATION). The experimental values were corrected by subtracting control values. The initial transport rate was calculated from the radioactivity taken up by proteoliposomes in the initial linear range of substrate uptake (CITATION). For efflux measurements, proteoliposomes containing 1 mm SAM were labeled with 5 μm [3H]SAM by carrier-mediated exchange equilibration (CITATION). After 60 min, external radioactivity was removed by passing the proteoliposomes through Sephadex G-75. Efflux was started by adding unlabeled external substrate or buffer A alone and terminated by adding the inhibitors indicated above. Proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE and stained with Coomassie Blue. The N termini were sequenced and the amount of purified proteins was estimated by laser densitometry of stained samples using carbonic anhydrase as a protein standard (CITATION). The amount of protein incorporated into liposomes was measured as described previously (CITATION). In all cases, it was about 25% of the protein added to the reconstitution mixture. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers AM260490 (SAMC1) and AM260491 (SAMC2).
