!~ABS~! We have previously demonstrated that vacuolar sorting receptor (VSR) proteins are concentrated on prevacuolar compartments (PVCs) in plant cells. PVCs in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY-2 cells are multivesicular bodies (MVBs) as defined by VSR proteins and the BP-80 reporter, where the transmembrane domain (TMD) and cytoplasmic tail (CT) sequences of BP-80 are sufficient and specific for correct targeting of the reporter to PVCs. The genome of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) contains seven VSR proteins, but little is known about their individual subcellular localization and function. Here, we study the subcellular localization of the seven Arabidopsis VSR proteins (AtVSR1–7) based on the previously proven hypothesis that the TMD and CT sequences correctly target individual VSR to its final destination in transgenic tobacco BY-2 cells. Toward this goal, we have generated seven chimeric constructs containing signal peptide (sp) linked to green fluorescent protein (GFP) and TMD/CT sequences (sp-GFP-TMD/CT) of the seven individual AtVSR. Transgenic tobacco BY-2 cell lines expressing these seven sp-GFP-TMD-CT fusions all exhibited typical punctate signals colocalizing with VSR proteins by confocal immunofluorescence. In addition, wortmannin caused the GFP-marked prevacuolar organelles to form small vacuoles, and VSR antibodies labeled these enlarged MVBs in transgenic BY-2 cells. Wortmannin also caused VSR-marked PVCs to vacuolate in other cell types, including Arabidopsis, rice (Oryza sativa), pea (Pisum sativum), and mung bean (Vigna radiata). Therefore, the seven AtVSRs are localized to MVBs in tobacco BY-2 cells, and wortmannin-induced vacuolation of PVCs is a general response in plants.
!~RES~! Phylogenetic analysis (Fig. 1A ) based on full-length VSR protein sequences indicated that AtVSR1 and AtVSR2 are closely related to the pumpkin PV72 and black gram (Vigna mungo) VmVSR, while AtVSR3 and AtVSR4 are more closely related to the pea BP-80, and the other three AtVSR members are grouped into another cluster depending on their evolutional relationship. Alignment analysis also indicated that these VSRs are highly conserved within their TMD and CT regions. In addition, all VSRs contain a Tyr motif (mainly YMPL) in their CT regions (Fig. 1B) that might interact with AP-1 clathrin-adaptor protein complex of the clathrin-coated vesicles in the plant secretory pathway (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To study the subcellular localization of the seven AtVSR proteins, we generated various chimeric constructs that contain sp sequences from the barley (Hordeum vulgare) proaleurain linked to GFP and TMD/CT sequences of individual AtVSR (termed GFP-AtVSR fusion in this study; Fig. 1C). Because the sequences (both genomic and cDNA) of AtVSRs are known, we thus designed overlapping primer pairs (P1/P2) that cover the full length of individual VSR TMD/CT sequences for self-priming PCR (Fig. 1D). The amplified double-strand DNA (dsDNA) of TMD/CT then served as template in further PCR using primers P3/P4 (Fig. 1D). Such cloning strategy does not need to use VSR DNA as template in PCR. Using this approach, we generated the seven GFP-AtVSR chimeric constructs for subsequent transformation into tobacco BY-2 cells. The seven GFP-AtVSR (termed GFP-AtVSR fusion) chimeric constructs were transferred into tobacco BY-2 cells via standard Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation. As controls, we used transgenic BY-2 cell lines expressing the Golgi marker GONST1-YFP and the PVC marker GFP-BP-80 reporter (CITATION). More than 50 individual transgenic BY-2 cell lines expressing each of the seven GFP-AtVSR1 to 7 fusions and the GFP-PV72 fusion were generated, where PV72 was likely a VSR for sorting storage proteins to PSVs in pumpkin seeds (CITATION). Cells from all these transgenic BY-2 cell lines expressing various GFP-VSR fusions gave typical punctate fluorescent signals (Fig. 2B ), an indication of either Golgi or PVC localization (CITATION). Most of these fluorescent signals colocalized with GFP antibody staining in confocal immunofluorescence of fixed cells (data not shown), indicating that the punctate fluorescent signals were derived from the GFP-VSR fusion proteins. The correct expression of the full-length GFP-VSR fusion proteins was further confirmed by western-blot analysis with GFP antibodies in these transgenic BY-2 cells. As shown in Figure 2A, a protein band of 37 kD corresponding to the full-length fusion protein was detected predominantly in the cell membrane fraction of all tested transgenic tobacco BY-2 cell lines expressing various GFP-VSR fusions (lanes 5–20), including the positive control BP-80 reporter (lanes 3 and 4). However, no such band was detected in wild-type BY-2 cells (lanes 1 and 2). These results demonstrated that all the GFP-AtVSR and GFP-PV72 fusions were expressed correctly in transgenic BY-2 cells. The difference in signal intensity of various GFP-VSR fusions detected by GFP antibodies in western-blot analysis (Fig. 2A) is presumably due to the different expression levels of these fusions in transgenic BY-2 cells. [[FIGURE]] We previously demonstrated that VSR proteins are concentrated on PVCs (CITATION). Using VSR antibodies as markers in immunoEM, the lytic PVCs were identified as MVBs in tobacco BY-2 cells (CITATION). In addition, the BP-80 reporter containing the BP-80 TMD/CT colocalized with endogenous tobacco VSR proteins (CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, both VSRs and the BP-80 reporter are PVC markers. The properties of PVCs were also studied using transgenic BY-2 cells expressing the PVC marker GFP-BP-80 reporter versus the Golgi marker GONST1-YFP (CITATION). BFA at low concentrations (5–10 μg/mL) caused the YFP-marked Golgi, but not the GFP-marked PVC, to form BFA-induced aggregates. In contrast, wortmannin caused GFP-marked PVCs to form small vacuoles, while YFP-marked Golgi remained unchanged (CITATION). Therefore, PVC localization of the BP-80 reporter can be confirmed by the following three criteria: colocalization with VSR antibodies, formation of small vacuoles in response to wortmannin treatment (at 15–33 μm), and no change in BFA-treated cells (at 5–10 μg/mL). We therefore used these three criteria to identify the organelles marked by various GFP-AtVSR1 to 7 fusions in transgenic tobacco BY-2 cells. Consistent with previous results, in transgenic BY-2 cells expressing the PVC marker GFP-BP-80, typical punctate fluorescent patterns were observed in living cells, and these punctate GFP signals mostly colocalized with VSR antibodies in confocal immunofluorescence (Fig. 3A ). In addition, wortmannin treatment caused the GFP-marked PVCs to vacuolate, while BFA treatment did not cause any changes in GFP-marked PVCs (Fig. 3A). In contrast, in transgenic BY-2 cells expressing the Golgi marker GONST1-YFP, the punctate YFP signals were largely separated from VSR-labeled PVCs where BFA caused them to form aggregates, but the punctate YFP signals remained unchanged in the presence of wortmannin (Fig. 3B). Similarly, in transgenic cells expressing the GFP-PV72, most of the punctate GFP signals colocalized with VSR (Table I ). While wortmannin induced the GFP-marked organelles to form small vacuoles, BFA did not cause any visible changes to these GFP-marked organelles (Fig. 3C). Therefore, GFP-PV72 localized to PVC in transgenic BY-2 cells. [[FIGURE]] Summary of various GFP fusions in transgenic BY-2 cells Similar results were obtained from the transgenic BY-2 cells expressing seven individual AtVSR fusions from GFP-AtVSR1 to GFP-AtVSR7 (Figs. 4–6⇓ ). Most of the punctate GFP signals in these transgenic cell lines colocalized with VSR (Table I), and these GFP-marked organelles were also induced to form small vacuoles in the presence of wortmannin but did not respond to BFA treatment (Figs. 4–6⇑). Therefore, all GFP-AtVSR fusions are most likely localized to PVCs in transgenic BY-2 cells. However, because the GFP-AtVSR1 to 7 fusions do not fully colocalize with VSR antibodies (Table I), we thus cannot exclude the possibility that different PVC types may exist in tobacco BY-2 cells (see “Discussion”). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The spacer region in front of the TMD of VSR is thought to be important for proper protein folding that would allow flexibility of the reporter linking to TMD. We previously used the BP-80 spacer in the chimeric reporter system to study trafficking of integral membrane proteins in tobacco cells (CITATION; CITATION). When expressed in tobacco cells, the BP-80 reporter colocalized with endogenous VSR proteins (CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, the TMD/CT sequences are sufficient and specific to target the reporter to PVCs. However, in this study, we used the original spacer from individual AtVSRs to make the seven GFP-AtVSR1 to 7 fusions. To test the possible effect of spacer sequence on the PVC localization of GFP-AtVSR fusions and thus subcellular localization of AtVSRs, we generated two reporter fusions with the same TMD/CT sequences as AtVSR7, but their spacer sequences were derived from AtVSR7 and BP-80, respectively. AtVSR7 was chosen because it was relatively far away from BP-80 in terms of evolutionary distance and because BP-80 and AtVSR7 had less amino acid similarity, especially on the spacer region (Fig. 1B). Thus, we replaced the spacer sequences in GFP-AtVSR7 with that from BP-80 and compared their subcellular localization in transgenic BY-2 cells. As shown in Figure 6, transgenic BY-2 cells expressing either the GFP-AtVSR7A (with original spacer; Fig. 6A) or GFP-AtVSR7B (with BP-80 spacer; Fig. 6B) showed typical punctate fluorescent signals that mostly colocalized with VSR, thus representing PVCs. In addition, wortmannin treatment induced the GFP-marked PVCs to form small vacuoles, but BFA did not cause any visible changes to punctate GFP signals in both transgenic cell lines (Fig. 6, A and B). Therefore, it is likely that the spacer sequences from BP-80 do not affect PVC localization of GFP-AtVSR in transgenic BY-2 cells, and targeting of VSR proteins to PVCs depends solely on their TMD and CT sequences. When expressed in transgenic tobacco BY-2 cells, the YFP-BP-80 reporter colocalized with endogenous VSRs (CITATION). In addition, wortmannin induced the YFP-marked PVCs to form small vacuoles in transgenic BY-2 cells where the enlarged PVCs were still labeled by anti-VSRs (CITATION). Similarly in this study, all organelles marked by GFP-AtVSR1 to 7 formed small vacuoles in response to wortmannin treatment (Figs. 3–6⇑⇑). To further test if VSR proteins are still present in these wortmannin-induced enlarged PVCs, confocal immunofluorescence with VSR antibodies was carried out in wortmannin-treated transgenic cells where their corresponding untreated cells were used as controls. As shown in Figure 7 , in transgenic cells expressing the positive control GFP-BP-80 reporter, most of the punctate GFP-BP-80 signals (green) colocalized with VSRs (red) in the absence of wortmannin (Fig. 7A). When the cells were treated with wortmannin, the GFP-marked PVCs became vacuolated and these enlarged vacuoles colocalized with VSRs (Fig. 7A). Similarly, in transgenic BY-2 cells expressing either GFP-AtVSR5 or GFP-PV72, most of the punctate GFP signals in untreated cells and the vacuolated GFP signals in wortmannin-treated cells colocalized with VSRs (Fig. 7, B and C). Furthermore, in untransformed wild-type BY-2 cells, VSR antibodies detected typical punctate organelles and small vacuoles in untreated and wortmannin-treated cells, respectively (Fig. 7D). These results demonstrated that all GFP-VSR fusions were targeted to PVCs, and wortmannin specifically induced the vacuolation of PVCs in both wild-type and transgenic BY-2 cells. [[FIGURE]] To further study the VSR-labeled structures in untreated and wortmannin-treated BY-2 cells, structural-EM with conventional chemical-fixed samples and immunoEM using VSR antibodies on high-pressure frozen/freeze-substituted samples were also carried out. As shown in Figure 8 , in cells without wortmannin treatment, typical MVBs with sizes of about 200 to 400 nm in diameter that contain small but uniform internal vesicles were observed (Fig. 8A), and these MVBs were specifically labeled by VSR antibodies mainly on the membrane (Fig. 8B). However, in wortmannin-treated cells, many enlarged MVBs with sizes of over 500 nm in diameter were observed (Fig. 8C), and these enlarged MVBs were specifically labeled by VSR antibodies on their limiting membranes (Fig. 8D). These EM studies further confirmed the results of confocal microscopic observations (e.g. Fig. 7) and demonstrated that the GFP-marked PVCs were vacuolated in response to wortmannin treatment; these small vacuoles were labeled by VSR antibodies on their outer membranes. [[FIGURE]] Many plants contain VSRs (Fig. 1). Our results indicated that all tested GFP-VSR fusions containing TMD/CT sequences from different plant species expressed in transgenic BY-2 cells formed small vacuoles in response to wortmannin treatment (Figs. 3–7⇑⇑⇑); this was further confirmed by immunoEM studies using VSR antibodies (Fig. 8). Therefore, we carried out experiments to find out if such wortmannin-induced vacuolation of PVCs is a general response in plant cells. Western-blot analysis with VSR antibodies was first carried out with protein samples extracted from various plants, including Arabidopsis, rice, tobacco, pea, and mung bean. As shown in Figure 9 , VSR antibodies detected a single band at 80 kD in all these tested protein samples, indicating that VSR proteins are universally present in these plant cells. To further study the VSR-marked organelles in these cell types, confocal immunofluorescence with VSR antibodies was then carried out in both cultured cells (rice and Arabidopsis) and root tip cells (pea, mung bean, and tobacco). As shown in Figure 10 , typical punctate signals were detected with VSR antibodies in all these cells (Fig. 10, A–E, left), a result consistent with the detection of PVCs by VSR antibodies in these cell types. In addition, when these cells were treated with wortmannin prior to fixation and subsequent immunostaining with VSR antibodies, enlarged and small vacuoles were detected in all these wortmannin-treated cell types (Fig. 10, A–E, right), a result further demonstrating that these VSR-labeled organelles were PVCs in these cell types and that wortmannin-induced vacuolation of PVCs is a general response in plant cells. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! General methods for construction of recombinant plasmids, characterization of cloned inserts, and maintenance of tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY-2 culture cells have been described previously (CITATION; CITATION). The oligonucleotide/primer sequences (from 5′ to 3′) used in self-priming PCR to amplify dsDNA fragments for further cloning are listed in Supplemental Table S1. Sequence alignment and tree drawing were performed using the ClustalW and unweighted pair-group method using arithmetic averages algorithm with default parameters in the MacVector 7.2 (Accelrys) analysis package. The trees were statistically evaluated with a bootstrap analysis with 1,000 bootstraps. The amino acid and nucleotide sequences of VSR of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), pumpkin (Cucurbita pepo), and black gram (Vigna mungo) were obtained from BLAST searches (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/BLAST/) using the pea (Pisum sativum) BP-80 amino acid sequence (CITATION). To generate various chimeric constructs that contain sp sequence from the barley (Hordeum vulgare) proaleurain linked to GFP (CITATION) and the TMD/CT sequences of individual AtVSR (these constructs were termed GFP-AtVSR fusions in this study; Fig. 1C), two pairs of primers were designed and used to generate dsDNA containing the spacer-TMD/CT sequences of individual VSR. P1/P2 are overlapped primer pairs (with 30-nucleotide overlap) that cover the full-length spacer-TMD/CT sequences of individual VSR to be used for self-priming PCR to generate the dsDNA fragment of spacer-TMD/CT sequences (Fig. 1D), which in turn will serve as templates for further PCR using primer pairs P3/P4 to generate full-length spacer-TMD/CT sequences of individual VSR (Fig. 1D). P1 and P3 contain an EcoRI site, while P2 and P4 contain a stop codon and SacI site. Individual spacer-TMD-CT DNA fragments from the above PCR were gel purified and digested with EcoRI/SacI before being cloned into pSYFP491K (CITATION) via the same restriction sites to replace the spacer-BP-80 TMD/CT sequences. The resulting constructs were then cloned into the binary vector pSYFP491K (CITATION) via HindIII/SacI sites before they were transferred into Agrobacterium for BY-2 cell transformation. As a result, all newly generated GFP-VSR fusions contain 35S promoter-sGFP-spacer-TMD-CT-Nos 3′ terminator (CITATION). All constructs were checked by both restrictions mapping and DNA sequencing. All chimeric constructs were transferred into Agrobacterium tumefaciens (strain LBA4404) via electroporation and used to transfect wild-type BY-2 cells as previously described (CITATION). BY-2 cells are maintained in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium by subculturing once a week and culturing at room temperature in a shaker set at 125 rpm. Transfected BY-2 cells with Agrobacterium were transferred onto MS media (Sigma) containing kanamycin (50 μg/mL) and cefotaxin (250 μg/mL) for 3 to 4 weeks for colony formation. Resistant BY-2 cell colonies (approximately 100–200 from each construct) were subjected to screening for their GFP signals via confocal microscopy. Selected cell lines (5–10 per construct) were further transferred into MS liquid medium with kanamycin to initiate suspension culture to be used for subsequent analysis. Transgenic tobacco BY-2 cells were maintained in both liquid and solid culture via subculturing once per week. A recombinant protein representing the lumenal portion (lacking the TMD and CT) of VSRAt-1 (CITATION) was expressed in Drosophila melanogaster S2 cells (CITATION) and purified for use as antigen to generate VSRat-1 antibodies (CITATION; CITATION). Affinity-purified recombinant proteins were used for immunization of two rabbits at the animal house of the Chinese University of Hong Kong (CITATION). Antibodies were purified by affinity chromatography using a column made with recombinant protein coupled to CNBr Sepharose (Sigma) as described (CITATION). GFP antibodies were purchased from Molecular Probes or generated using recombinant GFP as antigens to inject rabbits at the animal house of the Chinese University of Hong Kong and affinity purified. Secondary or lissamine rhodamine- or FITC-conjugated affinity-purified anti-rabbit antibodies were purchased from Jackson ImmunoResearch Laboratories. For western-blot analysis, GFP antibodies and VSR antibodies were used at 4 μg/mL. Stock solutions of wortmannin (Sigma) at 2.5 mg/mL in dimethyl sulfoxide and BFA (Sigma) at 1 mg/mL in dimethyl sulfoxide were used. Both drugs were diluted in MS liquid medium to appropriate working concentrations before incubation with BY-2 cells. For each drug treatment, BY-2 cells were mixed with drugs in working solutions in MS media at 1:1 ratio to ensure minimal variation. Treated samples were then harvested at the indicated time for subsequent confocal and EM analysis as described (CITATION). Each treatment was repeated at least twice with similar results. Fixation and preparation of cultured cells (tobacco BY-2, Arabidopsis, rice [Oryza sativa]), root tips (pea, mung bean [Vigna radiata], and tobacco), and their labeling and analysis by epifluorescence and confocal immunofluorescence have been described previously (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The settings for collecting confocal images within the linear range were as described (CITATION). For immunolabeling, anti-VSR polyclonal rabbit antibody at a final concentration of 4 μg/mL was used and incubated at 4°C overnight. All confocal fluorescence images were collected using a Bio-Rad Radiance 2100 system. Images were processed using Adobe Photoshop software as previously described (CITATION). The extent of colocalization of two signals in confocal immunofluorescence images from BY-2 cells was quantitated as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). The general procedures for conventional thin sectioning of chemically fixed samples of BY-2 cells and immunoEM localization of antibodies with high-pressure freezing/frozen substitution BY-2 samples were performed essentially as described previously (CITATION). Immunolabeling of London Resin White sections was carried out using VSR antibodies at 1:100 dilution (40 μg/mL) and gold-coupled secondary antibodies at 1:50 dilution. Aqueous uranyl acetate/lead citrate poststained sections were examined in a JOEL JEM-1200EX II transmission EM operating at 80 kV. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers At3g52850 (Arabidopsis AtVSR1), At2g30290 (Arabidopsis AtVSR2), At2g14740 (Arabidopsis AtVSR3), At2g14720 (Arabidopsis AtVSR4), At2g34940 (Arabidopsis AtVSR5), At1g30900 (Arabidopsis AtVSR6), At4g20110 (Arabidopsis AtVSR7), and AB006809 (pumpkin PV72). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Alignment of plant VSR proteins. Supplemental Table S1. Oligonucleotides used in this study.
