!~ABS~! In Arabidopsis four root-expressed AMT genes encode functional ammonium transporters, which raises the question of their role in primary ammonium uptake. After pre-culturing under nitrogen-deficiency conditions, we quantified the influx of 15N-labeled ammonium in T-DNA insertion lines and observed that the loss of either AMT1;1 or AMT1;3 led to a decrease in the high-affinity ammonium influx of approximately 30%. Under nitrogen-sufficient conditions the ammonium influx was lower in Columbia glabra compared with Wassilewskija (WS), and AMT1;1 did not contribute significantly to the ammonium influx in Col-gl. Ectopic expression of AMT1;3 under the control of a 35S promoter in either of the insertion lines amt1;3-1 or amt1;1-1 increased the ammonium influx above the level of their corresponding wild types. In transgenic lines carrying AMT-promoter–GFP constructs, the promoter activities of AMT1;1 and AMT1;3 were both upregulated under nitrogen-deficiency conditions and were localized to the rhizodermis, including root hairs. AMT gene–GFP fusions that were stably expressed under the control of their own promoters were localized to the plasma membrane. The double insertion line amt1;1-1amt1;3-1 showed a decreased sensitivity to the toxic ammonium analog methylammonium and a decrease in the ammonium influx of up to 70% relative to wild-type plants. These results suggest an additive contribution of AMT1;1 and AMT1;3 to the overall ammonium uptake capacity in Arabidopsis roots under nitrogen-deficiency conditions.
!~RES~! To investigate the contribution of AMT1;3 to the overall ammonium uptake in roots, a T-DNA insertion line in the Wassilewskija (WS) background was isolated from the Feldman–DuPont collection (Feldmann, 1991). Analysis of progeny of a backcross of the amt1;3-1 to wild type revealed the presence of a single T-DNA insertion that segregated in a Mendelian ratio. The T-DNA was found to be inserted 70-bp upstream of the start codon (Figure 1a) and led to a complete loss of AMT1;3 transcripts in the roots of homozygous insertion progenies (Figure 1b). Roots of hydroponically grown wild-type and amt1;3-1 plants were then used for the extraction of microsomal membrane fractions and subsequent western analysis. An antibody that had been raised against 15 amino acids from the C-terminus of AMT1;3 detected a specific band at approximately 40 kD in microsomal membrane fractions of wild-type roots (Figure 1c). This is somewhat lower than the calculated molecular weight of AMT1;3 (53 kD), although a faster gel migration would be consistent with the hydrophobic nature of the protein (Figure 1c). Consistent with the loss of the transcript, no western signal was detectable in membrane protein preparations from roots of the amt1;3-1 insertion line. [[FIGURE]] Both lines were then grown for 41 days on nutrient solution containing 2 mm ammonium nitrate as a nitrogen source, and the concentration-dependent influx of 15N-labeled ammonium was determined using stable isotope mass spectrometry. In wild-type roots, ammonium influx followed biphasic kinetics with steeply increasing uptake rates up to 200 μm of ammonium before approaching saturation, and a more linear concentration dependence at millimolar concentrations (Figure 1d and e). Similar biphasic uptake kinetics has also been observed for ammonium in the roots of the Arabidopsis ecotype Col-3gl1, where the uptake response was linear in the millimolar range (CITATION). In contrast, ammonium influx into amt1;3-1 roots was approximately 30% lower in the micromolar concentration range, but did not differ significantly from the wild type between 1 and 3 mm of external ammonium. This kinetic analysis of ammonium uptake indicated that AMT1;3 is a high-affinity ammonium transporter with a less consistent contribution to ammonium influx at millimolar ammonium concentrations. The line amt1;3-1 was then transformed with a wild-type AMT1;3 open reading frame (ORF) under the control of a 35SCaMV promoter. A 35S promoter was chosen to determine the quantitative contribution of AMT1;3 to ammonium uptake at an elevated level of gene expression. Among four lines from the T3 generation that were homozygous according to selectable marker analysis, two lines showed a strong accumulation of AMT1;3 mRNA (Figure 2a). Western analysis showed that these high transcript levels were also translated into high protein levels, irrespective of the nitrogen supply to the nutrient solution. In contrast, AMT1;3 mRNA and protein levels in the roots of wild-type plants were low under an adequate supply of nitrogen and steeply increased after 4 days of growth under nitrogen-deficiency conditions (Figure 2a and b). [[FIGURE]] The AMT1;3 re-transformed lines 6a and 15h were then subjected to influx analysis at 200 μm of 15N-labeled ammonium as a measure for high-affinity uptake. Irrespective of the nitrogen nutritional status, amt1;3-1 showed an approximately 25% lower uptake capacity than in the wild type. In both AMT1;3 re-transformed lines, the uptake was either clearly restored or even exceeded that of the wild-type plants (Figure 2c). These observations indicated that AMT1;3 contributed to the overall capacity for high-affinity ammonium uptake in Arabidopsis roots under nitrogen-sufficient as well as under nitrogen-deficient growth conditions. According to the strong de-repression of AMT1;1 gene expression under nitrogen-deficiency conditions, and the concomitant increase in ammonium-uptake capacity (CITATION; CITATION), it was considered that AMT1;1 may also make a major contribution to ammonium influx in nitrogen-deficient Arabidopsis roots. We therefore isolated a T-DNA insertion line from the enhancer trap collection of Thomas Jack (Thomas Jack laboratory, Dartmouth College, NH, USA), and verified a single T-DNA insertion status and homozygosity by PCR and segregation analysis after a backcross to the wild type. The T-DNA insertion (mutant amt1;1-1) was located 11-bp upstream of the start codon in the 5′-untranslated region (UTR) of AMT1;1, and led to a complete loss of detectable AMT1;1 mRNA in roots from plants hydroponically pre-cultured under nitrogen-deficiency conditions (Figures 3a and b). To monitor the changes in protein accumulation, an antibody was raised against 15 amino acids from the loop between the transmembrane-spanning domains 2 and 3 of AMT1;1. In a protein gel blot analysis, this antibody recognized a specific protein band at approximately 40 kD in microsomal membrane fractions from wild-type roots (Figure 3c). In contrast, no band was detectable on a protein gel blot of membrane proteins from amt1;1-1 roots. [[FIGURE]] A concentration-dependent influx analysis was then conducted with plants pre-cultured under nitrogen-sufficient and nitrogen-deficient growth conditions. Under adequate nitrogen supply wild-type and amt1;1-1 plants did not differ in ammonium influx (Figure 3d). Although the amt1;1-1 mutant showed a several-fold increase in root ammonium influx under nitrogen-starvation conditions, the ammonium influx remained 30% below that of the wild type with an external supply of up to 200 μm ammonium. Despite little variation in the experimental setup this observation was in strong agreement with the report by CITATION, who isolated the same T-DNA insertion line and also observed a 30% lower uptake capacity in their homozygous descendants in the same concentration range. As a further test of whether both AMTs act in the same physiological process under nitrogen deficiency, amt1;1-1 plants were transformed with 35S:AMT1;3 and subjected to influx analysis. Among four transgenic lines the lines 17d and 10c showed a strong expression of AMT1;3 at the mRNA level (Figure 4a) and a concomitant increase in the level of protein (Figure 4b). Relative to amt1;1-1 and the corresponding wild type, the other two transgenic lines (21j and 19a) actually showed repressed AMT1;3 transcript and protein levels, which was most probably caused by a silencing effect. Under adequate nitrogen supply, ammonium influx in the AMT1;3 transformed lines 17d (Figure 4c) and 10c (data not shown) exceeded that of the wild-type and the amt1;1-1 insertion line, confirming that growth conditions of adequate nitrogen supply allow an increase in the overall uptake capacity by increasing the protein quantity of AMT1;3, as they did in amt1;3-1 (Figure 2a). Importantly, under nitrogen-deficient conditions, the expression of AMT1;3 compensated for the uptake defect in amt1;1-1, indicating that the biochemical properties of AMT1;3 allowed substitution for the physiological function of AMT1;1. Although the lower overall ammonium uptake capacity of Columbia glabra (Col-gl) relative to WS was reflected in a slightly lower contribution of AMT1;3 in Col-gl (Figures 2c and 4c), the quantitative contribution of AMT1;3 remained exactly the same in both ecotypes, irrespective of whether plants were exposed to either nitrogen-sufficient or nitrogen-deficient growth conditions, and absolute uptake capacities were strongly enhanced. Thus, the different genetic background of the two insertion lines apparently did not exert a nitrogen-dependent regulatory effect on the ammonium-uptake capacity conferred by AMT1;3. [[FIGURE]] Although AMT1;1 and AMT1;3 make a similar contribution to the overall ammonium uptake in nitrogen-deficient plants, their physiological roles may also depend either on tissue or intracellular localization of expression. We therefore fused 2310 bp of the 5′-upstream region of AMT1;3 and 2330 bp of the 5′-upstream region of AMT1;1 to GFP and analyzed the GFP-dependent fluorescence in several transgenic Arabidopsis lines transformed with these fusion constructs. In general, the strongest fluorescence in roots was confined to the apical root region (Figure 5i–l) as well as to the root hair zone (Figure 5e–h), whereas fluorescence decreased in more basal root parts (Figure 5a–d). In root tips of AMT1;3pro:GFP plants, fluorescence was low after nitrogen-adequate pre-culture, but was strongly increased under nitrogen-deficiency conditions (Figure 5i and j), which was in agreement with our gene expression analysis (Figure 2a). In the lower and younger root hair zone, promoter activity was localized to cortical cells and to rhizodermal cells including root hairs (Figure 5e and f). As in root tips, promoter-dependent fluorescence was subject to a strong increase under nitrogen deficiency. In the upper root hair zone, fluorescence remained restricted to the same cell types and was only slightly enhanced by nitrogen deficiency (Figure 5a and b). [[FIGURE]] The parallel analysis of an AMT1;1pro:GFP construct yielded an unexpected result. Under nitrogen-sufficient growth conditions, weak promoter activity appeared in the root tip and in outer cells of more basal root zones, but was intense in pericycle cells of the root hair zone and above (Figure 5c, g and k). However, under nitrogen-deficiency conditions, AMT1;1 promoter-dependent fluorescence was also localized to rhizodermal cells including root hairs (Figure 5d and h). In root tips, fluorescence was also enhanced in inner cell layers, being almost completely complementary in location to that of AMT1;3 promoter-dependent fluorescence (Figure 5l and j). Thus, a common feature of both promoters was that their activities increased under nitrogen deficiency, in particular in rhizodermal cells, including root hairs, and in the root tip. The intracellular localization of AMT1;1 and AMT1;3 was investigated in transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing C-terminal AMT gene–GFP fusions under the control of the native promoter. Confocal imaging was focussed on root hairs, which were less vacuolated and allowed the visualization of cytoplasmic content. Again, GFP-dependent fluorescence of both fusion proteins increased in nitrogen-deficient Arabidopsis roots (data not shown), but now appeared in a thin zone along the border of individual root hair cells (Figure 6a and d). Plasma membranes were then stained by a short incubation with the hydrophobic red fluorescent dye FM4-64 (Figure 6b and e; CITATION), which was found to colocalize with the green AMT-dependent fluorescence after the two separate images were merged (Figure 6c and f). These observations indicated that both transporters AMT1;1 and AMT1;3 reside in the plasma membrane in Arabidopsis root cells. [[FIGURE]] To investigate a possible physiological redundancy between AMT1;1 and AMT1;3, we generated a double insertion line (dko) by crossing amt1;1-1 with amt1;3-1. Plants homozygous for both insertions were grown hydroponically, along with the single insertion lines and the corresponding wild types, and gene expression was monitored by RNA gel blot analysis. As expected, transcripts of both AMTs were not detectable in the dko (Figure 7a). A phenotypical analysis was conducted in a pre-fertilized peat-based substrate (http://www.einheitserde.de), in nutrient solution either under nitrogen-deficiency conditions or with a supply of 2 mm ammonium nitrate, and on agar under a supply of either 20–2000 μm ammonium or 10–1000 μm ammonium nitrate. However, neither the visual appearance nor the growth of single and double insertion lines differed from that of the two wild types under these screening conditions. Thus, the phenotype for the AMT1;1:T-DNA insertion line, as reported in CITATION, could not be confirmed under our growth conditions. One reason for this might be that in both experiments the growth conditions differed with regard to the sterility of the hydroponic culture, sucrose supply, oxygen supply to roots and light intensity. [[FIGURE]] We then added the toxic ammonium analog methylammonium to agar-grown plants. Supply of only 1.5 mm nitrate to the agar medium kept these plants under nitrogen-limited growth to assure the expression of both AMTs. In general, WS appeared to be more sensitive to methylammonium than Columbia glabra. The addition of >12.5 mm methylammonium strongly inhibited germination, and seedling growth was repressed in both wild types as well as in the amt1;1-1 and amt1;3-1 single insertion lines. In contrast, dko seedlings remained green and clearly exhibited a decreased sensitivity (Figure 7b). Double insertion lines from different nitrogen pre-cultures were then subjected to ammonium influx measurements at 200 μm of external ammonium supply. In plants grown under adequate nitrogen nutrition, ammonium influx in amt1;3-1 was again approximately 30% lower than in the corresponding wild-type WS, whereas the influx in the amt1;1-1 insertion line did not significantly differ from its wild-type Col-gl (Figure 8a). The uptake capacity of the dko was slightly lower relative to both single insertion lines. However, with increasing nitrogen deficiency, both single insertion lines exhibited an approximately 30% reduction in ammonium influx, whereas the dko lost approximately 60–70% of its uptake capacity. Although uptake rates steadily increased with the time of nitrogen starvation in all lines, it was remarkable to note that the relative contribution of the two transporters remained similar. [[FIGURE]] In a quantitative RT-PCR analysis, CITATION reported an upregulation of AMT1;3 mRNA levels in nitrogen-deficient roots of their amt1;1:T-DNA insertion line, which might be suggestive of a compensatory response by homologous AMT genes in Arabidopsis. In our experiments, AMT1;1 transcript and protein levels in amt1;3-1, as well as AMT1;3 transcript and protein levels in amt1;1-1, were no different to the corresponding gene expression levels in their wild types under different nitrogen regimes (Figure 8b and c). Thus, a compensatory upregulation of one of the two genes as a consequence of the loss of the other gene was not observed. Likewise, mRNA levels of other root-expressed AMT genes, namely AMT1;2 and AMT2;1, also did not change as a consequence of these gene disruptions (Figure 8b). These observations were in good agreement with the decreased sensitivity of the dko to methylammonium, and strongly indicated an additive contribution of AMT1;1 and AMT1;3 to root ammonium influx.
!~MM~! The coding sequences of AMT1;1 (At4g13510), AMT1;2 (At1g64780), AMT1;3 (At3g24300) and AMT2;1 (At2g38290) were amplified by PCR from reverse-transcribed Arabidopsis thaliana Col-0 cDNA using KOD+ DNA polymerase (Toyobo, Tokyo, Japan) with the specific primers (AMT1;1-F, TTCTTCTCTAAACTCTCAACATGTCTTG; AMT1;1-R, GAGAATAAAAGTAAAAATCCAAATCAA; AMT1;2-F, TCCCTCCCTCCCTCTCCACCATGGACAC; AMT1;2-R, TCAAACAGTCAAGGTCGGTGTAGGAGTC; AMT1;3-F, CTCTCTCAGCTCTCTCAAACATGTCAGG; AMT1;3-R, TTAAACGCGAGGAGGAGTAGCTGATCGA; AMT2;1-F, GGGAAAGATAGAATAACAAAATGGCCGG; AMT2;1-R, TCATAGAACAATGGTGACACCTCTAGCA. The amplified fragments were cloned into pCR-Bluntll-TOPO (Invitrogen, San Diego, CA, USA) and DNA sequences were verified. 3′-end probes of AMT1;1 (410 bp) and AMT1;3 (357 bp) were amplified from genomic DNA by PCR using Pfu Turbo DNA polymerase (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA, USA) with the specific primers (AMT1;1-3end-F, ATGAGATGGCCGGTATGGATATGA; AMT1;1-3end-R, CTTAGTCCATGCTTCACATTCCTA; AMT1;3-3end-F, GATAATGATGATGAGTCTCATAGAG; AMT1;3-3end-R, GTACTCCAATTTCCTAATGCCGTCG). PCR products were A-tailed with Taq-polymerase and cloned into the pGEM-T Easy vector (Promega, Madison, WI, USA). T-DNA insertion lines in AMT1;1 and AMT1;3 were isolated by PCR screening as described by CITATION on populations of the ‘T. Jack lines’ and ‘Feldmann–DuPont lines’, respectively (CITATION). Superpool DNA and seeds of subpools were obtained from the ABRC stock center (ABRC, Columbus, OH, USA). In combination with right border primers either for the T. Jack lines (5′-GAATGGCGAATGAGACCTCAATTGCGAG-3′) or for the Feldman–DuPont lines (5′-TCCTTCAATCGTTGCGGTTCTGTCAGTTC-3′), specific primers for AMT1;1 were either 5′-CTCCAAAGAGAACACAAATGACCAC-3′ or 5′-GAAAATCGAAATTTCGTGCCATTTCC-3′, and for AMT1;3 were either 5′-GGAGATCCAGGATCCACTCTATGAGAC-3′ or 5′-CCCGCTAAACCCATGTTATC-3′. After isolation of a T-DNA insertion in AMT1;1 (amt1;1-1) and AMT1;3 (amt1;3-1), both lines were back-crossed twice to their respective parental lines C. glabra (Col3-gl1) and Wassilewskija (WS), and self-pollinated. Homozygous mutant lines were identified by PCR, checked for kanamycin resistance and analyzed by RNA and protein gel blots. All constructs for plant transformation were prepared from Col-0 in the cloning vector pBI101 (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA, USA). For the AMT1;1-promoter-ORF:GFP construct, the AMT1;1 genomic region from the position 2813-bp upstream of the translation initiation site to the end of the coding sequence was amplified by PCR using KOD+ DNA polymerase (Toyobo). The primers 1;1-F-BamHI (5′-GGATCCGAAATTTTATATCCTCTTCGATTTCTTT-3′) and 1;1-R-KpnI (5′-GGTACCGAAACCGGAGTAGGTGTAGTATTAGCACCA-3′) were used to generate a BamHI restriction site at the 5′-end, and to remove the stop codon by introducing a KpnI restriction site at the 3′-end, respectively. The BamHI-KpnI fragment of the AMT1;1 promoter-ORF, the KpnI-NotI fragment of the coding sequence of EGFP (Clontech) and a NotI-SalI fragment containing the nopaline synthase terminator were sequentially ligated to a modified pUC18 vector (Toyobo) and fully sequenced. The AMT1;1 promoter-ORF:GFP fusion was inserted between the BamHI and SalI sites of pBI101, replacing β-glucuronidase and the nopaline synthase terminator. For the AMT1;1 promoter–GFP construct, the primers 1;1-F-BamHI and 1;1-R-NcoI (5′-CCATGGTTGAGAGTTTAGAGAAGAAGATGAAAC-3′) were used to amplify a 5′-upstream fragment of AMT1;1, before ligation with the EGFP and nopaline synthase terminator sequences using the BamHI and SalI sites of pBI101. For the AMT1;3 promoter:ORF–GFP fusion, the AMT1;3 genomic region from the position 2279-bp upstream of the translation initiation site to the end of the coding sequence was amplified by PCR using the primers 1;3-F-XbaI (5′-TCTAGATCCTTTTATTCATTCGTTAGATTCAGTT-3′) and 1;3-R-KpnI (5′-GGTACCGAAACGCGAGGAGGAGTAGCTGATCGAGGG-3′). The XbaI-KpnI fragment was ligated with the sequences of EGFP and the nopaline synthase terminator and inserted between the XbaI and SalI sites of pBI101. For the AMT1;3 promoter–GFP construct, the primers 1;3-F-XbaI and 1;3-R-NcoI (CCATGGTTTGAGAGAGCTGAGAGAGAGAAAGAG-3′) were used to amplify an XbaI-NcoI 5′-upstream fragment of AMT1;3, which was ligated to EGFP before insertion between the XbaI and SalI sites of pBI101. The binary plasmids were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 (pMP90) by the freeze-thaw method. A. thaliana plants, ecotype Columbia (Col-0), were transformed using the floral-dip method. Transgenic plants were selected on germination (GM) medium containing 50 mg l−1 kanamycin sulfate. Plants were cultured in a growth chamber at 22°C, 60% relative humidity and a 8-h/16-h light/dark cycle. The light intensity was 40 μmol m−2 s−1. Transformants were pre-cultured on GM medium containing 1× Murashige and Skoog (MS) salts (Wako Pure Chemical, Osaka, Japan) and 1% sucrose for 14 days. Plants were then transferred to nitrogen-deficient medium, in which ammonium nitrate in MS salts was replaced by an equivalent of chloride salts, and continued to grow for 3 days. Fluorescence of GFP in transgenic plants was observed under a BX61 microscope equipped with a FV500 confocal laser scanning system and a 505–525-nm band pass filter (Olympus, Tokyo, Japan). For staining of the plasma membrane, plants were submerged in 20 μm FM4-64 (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR, USA) for 5 min, and washed three times in water. The fluorescence of FM4-64 was observed under a confocal laser scanning microscope with a 560-nm band-pass filter (Olympus). Using an EcoRI restriction site, the ORF of AMT1;3 in pCR-BluntII-TOPO was sub-cloned into pGreen0029 (CITATION) containing a p35CaMV-mcs-tCaMV cassette to generate 35S:AtAMT1;3. Independent glyphosate-resistant lines (T0) were isolated and amplified. Experiments were conducted with homozygous T3 plants. Arabidopsis thaliana seeds were germinated in the dark for 4 days and pre-cultured on either sand or rockwool moistened with tap water. After one week, tap water was replaced by full nutrient solution containing 1 mm KH2PO4, 1 mm MgSO4, 250 μm K2SO4, 250 μm CaCl2, 100 μm Na-Fe-EDTA, 50 μm KCl, 50 μm H3BO3, 5 μm MnSO4, 1 μm ZnSO4, 1 μm CuSO4 and 1 μm NaMoO4, with the pH adjusted to 6.0 with KOH. If not indicated otherwise, 2 mm NH4NO3 was supplied to nitrogen-sufficient plants. The nutrient solution was renewed once a week during the first 3 weeks, twice in the 4th week and every 2 days for the following weeks. Plants were grown hydroponically under non-sterile conditions for 6 weeks (±2 days) in a growth cabinet under the following conditions: 10-h/14-h light/dark (8-h/16-h light/dark only for plants in Figure 3d); light intensity 280 μmol m−2 s−1; temperature 22°C/18°C and 70% humidity. Total RNA was isolated by phenol-guanidine extraction followed by lithium chloride precipitation according to CITATION. RNA (20 μg per lane) was separated by electrophoresis on 3-(N-morpholino)propanesulphonic acid (MOPS)-formaldehyde agarose gels, blotted onto Hybond-N+ nylon membranes (Amersham, Little Chalfont, UK) and cross-linked to the membrane by incubation at 80°C for 2h. The ORFs of AMT1;1, AMT1;2, AMT1;3 and AMT2;1 were used as probes for hybridization to total RNA, and possible cross-hybridization was verified in some experiments by the use of probes consisting only of the corresponding 3′-ends. Hybridization to a randomly primed 32P-radiolabeled probe was performed at 42°C in 50% (v/v) formamide, 1% (w/v) sarcosyl, 5 × SSC and 100 μg ml−1 yeast t-RNA. Membranes were washed at 42°C twice in 2 × SSC, 0.1% (w/v) SDS for 20 min, once in 0.2 × SSC, 0.1% (w/v) SDS and finally in 0.1 × SSC, 0.1% (w/v) SDS for 20 min. Ethidium bromide-stained gels were used as RNA loading control. Ammonium influx measurements in plant roots were conducted after rinsing the roots in 1 mm CaSO4 solution for 1 min, followed by an incubation during 6 min in nutrient solution containing different concentrations of 15N-labeled NH (95 atom%15N) as the sole nitrogen source, and finally washed in 1 mm CaSO4 solution. Roots and shoots were separated and stored at −70°C before freeze drying. Each sample was ground and 1.5–2.5 mg of powder was used for 15N determination by mass-spectrometry (Finnigan, Bremen, Germany). Values obtained for concentration-dependent ammonium influx for up to 500 μm ammonium were directly fitted to the Michaelis–Menten equation. Uptake experiments were repeated between three and five times, and representative results are shown. Arabidopsis root tissues were frozen in liquid nitrogen and ground in a mortar. The powder was homogenized in a buffer containing 250 mm Tris–HCl (pH 8.5), 290 mm sucrose, 25 mm EDTA, 5 mmβ-mercaptoethanol (β-ME), 2 mm DTT and 1 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (PMSF). Homogenates were centrifuged at 10 000 g for 15 min. Supernatants were filtered through a nylon mesh (58 μm) and centrifuged at 100 000 g for 30 min to pellet microsomal membrane fractions. The pellet was re-suspended in conservation buffer [5 mmbis-Tris-propane, 2-(N-morpholine)-ethanesulphonic acid, pH 6.5, 250 mm sorbitol, 20% w/v glycerol, 1 mm DTT and 2 mm PMSF] and gently homogenized in a potter. Protein concentrations were determined using Bradford Protein Assay (Bio-Rad, Munich, Germany) using bovine serum albumin as a standard. Polyclonal antibodies were raised against peptides representing either the C-terminus of AMT1;3 (n-DPGSPFPRSATPPRV-c) or the loop between TM2 and TM3 of AMT1;1 (n-KHYFGLKDIPTASAD-c), respectively (Biotrend, Köln, Germany). The antisera were affinity-purified using a nitrocellulose membrane binding the corresponding peptide as described by CITATION. Proteins (5–10 μg per lane) were denatured in loading buffer (62.5 mm Tris–HCl pH 6.8, 10% v/v glycerol, 2% w/v SDS, 2.5% v/v ß-ME, 0.01% w/v bromophenol blue, 1% PMSF) at 37°C for 30 min, separated on 10% SDS polyacrylamide gels, and transferred to a polyvinylidene fluoride membrane (Immobilon-P; Millipore, Bedford, MA, USA) by electroblotting. Blots were developed using an ECL Advance Western Blotting Detection Kit (Amersham) according to the manufacturer's protocol. Primary antibodies and secondary antibody (peroxidase-conjugated antirabbit IgG; Amersham) were diluted in blocking solution at the following concentration combinations: anti-AMT1;1 at 1:400 with secondary antibody at 1:25 000; anti-AMT1;3 at 1:5000, anti-DET3 at 1:20 000 with secondary antibody at 1:100 000. MagicMark Western Standard (Invitrogen) was used as molecular weight marker. DET3 protein blots were used as a control for equal loading. DET3 is a subunit of the vacuolar ATPase in Arabidopsis (CITATION), which is constitutively expressed in Arabidopsis roots (CITATION).
