!~ABS~! The centromeric histone H3 (CENH3) substitutes histone H3 within the nucleosomes of active centromeres in all eukaryotes. CENH3 deposition at centromeres is needed to assemble the kinetochore, a complex of conserved proteins responsible for correct chromosome segregation during nuclear division. Histones of regular nucleosomes are loaded during replication in S phase, while CENH3 deposition deviates from this pattern in yeast, human, and Drosophila melanogaster cells. Little is known about when and how CENH3 targets centromeric loci. Therefore, we determined the location and quantity of recombinant enhanced yellow fluorescent protein (EYFP)-CENH3 in mitotic root and endopolyploid leaf nuclei of transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana cells. Our data indicate significant loading of A. thaliana CENH3 during G2 (before splitting into sister kinetochores) rather than during the S or M phase of the cell cycle. The histone fold domain of the C-terminal part of CENH3 is sufficient to target A. thaliana centromeres. A. thaliana EYFP-CENH3 can recognize and target three different centromeric repeats of Arabidopsis lyrata but not field bean (Vicia faba) centromeres.
!~RES~! A. thaliana plants (2n = 10) constitutively expressing EYFP-tagged A. thaliana CENH3 fusion protein (EYFP-CENH3) were analyzed for incorporation of CENH3 into the centromeric regions of meristematic and endoreduplicated nuclei from roots and young and mature leaves, respectively. Flow cytometric analysis revealed almost 100% of living leaf nuclei with EYFP-CENH3 fluorescence. Most living root tip nuclei, analyzed by fluorescent microscopy, displayed up to 10 signal foci (Figures 1B and 1C). During mitosis, EYFP-CENH3 was localized exclusively at the presumed centromeres (Figures 1D and 1E), suggesting that expression of recombinant CENH3 in the selected transgenic lines is not above the physiological level (CITATION; CITATION). Protein gel blot analysis revealed a single band of ∼25 kD corresponding to endogenous CENH3 in the control and transgenic lines, while no fusion protein was detectable (Figure 2 ). Also with anti-green fluorescent protein (GFP) that recognizes EYFP, EYFP-CENH3 was not detectable on protein gel blots. This indicates an expression level of EYFP-CENH3 that is much lower than that of endogenous CENH3. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Since EYFP fluorescence bleaches very fast, we performed immunostaining experiments with anti-GFP antibodies and found fluorescence signals at centromeres during interphase and mitosis (Figures 1F to 1K). In late G2, prophase, and metaphase nuclei, double signals with a distance between the single spots of up to 0.5 μm appeared (Figures 1G, 1H, and 1K). Immunosignals for CENH3 were observed in 93.1% of 250 root tip nuclei, in most of them exclusively at chromocenters. Immunosignals for EYFP-CENH3 occur at the edges of fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) signals for centromeric ∼180-bp repeats that in turn occupy part of the 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI)-positive chromocenters (Figure 1J). In case of double immunosignals, these are connected by centromere-specific FISH signals (Figure 1K). Within meiotic nuclei, immunofluorescence signals were localized at the core of bright DAPI-stained heterochromatic regions of leptotene, pachytene, and diakinesis chromosomes and occasionally less dense along the chromosome arms. In leptotene, up to 10 separate signals were found, while in pachytene, the signals of homologous chromosomes (and sometimes all signals) were fused. During diakinesis, five double signals were localized on centromeres (Figures 1L to 1N). The intensity of EYFP-CENH3 immunosignals per nucleus during meiotic prophase (pachytene) is comparable (P = 0.263) to that of mitotic prophase nuclei. Nuclei isolated from fully developed leaves of EYFP-CENH3 transformants were sorted according to their ploidy level (2C, 4C, 8C, and 16C) and immunostained using antibodies against GFP (Figures 3A and 3C). Compact fluorescent signals were observed in 2C, 4C, and most of 8C nuclei, while in 16C nuclei, the signals were often less compact and split into smaller foci. The total volume of all fluorescence signals per nucleus was measured on optical stacks of labeled nuclei by three-dimensional (3D) microscopy. Assuming that the total volume of immunosignals directly reflects the amount of EYFP-CENH3 within a nucleus, no increase (P = 0.844) in EYFP-CENH3 content from 2C to 8C endopolyploidy level was found (Table 1 ). The increase (P < 0.05) measured in 16C nuclei could be due to decreased signal compaction (Figures 3A and 3C). The average EYFP-CENH3 immunosignal volume of 16 randomly selected nuclei of different sizes from squashed leaves was 1.19 ± 0.12 μm3, similar as in flow sorted 2C to 8C nuclei (Table 1). When EYFP-CENH3 fluorescence was measured by flow cytometry, the relative fluorescence intensity increased with ploidy level but reaches only 28.7% of the value expected in 16C nuclei if CENH3 content doubled along with the DNA content. To exclude that during endocycles centromeric ∼180-bp tandem repeats colocalizing with (CITATION) and binding to CENH3 (CITATION) remain underreplicated as in some polytene chromosomes (CITATION) and therefore that CENH3 loading is not required, FISH signal volumes were determined for isolated leaf nuclei of 2C to 16C level. In contrast with the CENH3 signal volumes, the FISH signal volumes in 2C, 4C, and 16C nuclei were found to be proportionally increased with the DNA content (Table 1). Surprisingly, in repeated experiments from 4C to 8C level, no proportional increase of centromeric FISH signals could be detected. However, when considering the histogram peak positions of 2C to 16C nuclei after DNA staining (Figure 4A ), no underreplication that could explain the low increase in CENH3 content was detectable. Since CENH3 amounts do not increase proportionally with the C values and with the amounts of centromeric repeats in endoreplicated nuclei, most of CENH3 is not loaded to centromeres during S phase of endoreduplicating nuclei. Because no significant underreplication was detectable, an obvious difference to mitotic S phase is not apparent. [[FIGURE]] Proportions of EYFP-CENH3 Immunosignals (Obtained with GFP-Cy3 Antibodies) and ∼180-bp Centromeric Repeat (pAL) FISH Signals within Leaf Nuclei Isolated from EYFP-CENH3 Transgenic A. thaliana and Sorted According to Their Endopolyploidy Level ± se [[FIGURE]] To test whether loading of CENH3 may occur during mitosis (e.g., due to spindle-mediated tension) (CITATION), the volumes of CENH3-specific signals were determined for prophase and telophase nuclei from root tips. No significant differences as to the relative amounts of CENH3 were detectable between prophase and telophase nuclei (Table 2 ). This excludes a major tension-mediated CENH3 deposition during mitosis. Large G2 root tip nuclei (4C) with doubled fluorescence signals revealed similar total signal volumes as observed in prophase nuclei (Table 2) but much larger ones than found in 2C nuclei. For some nuclei of these different types, in parallel to signal volume measurement, the intensity of EYFP-CENH3 immunofluorescence signals was determined and yielded a similar ratio. Proportions of EYFP-CENH3 Immunosignals (Obtained with GFP-Cy3 Antibodies) in G2 and Prophase (4C) versus G1 and Telophase (2C) Nuclei of A. thaliana Root Tip Meristems Transgenic for EYFP-CENH3 (Line 36) ± se To confirm that EYFP-CENH3 signal ratios reflect the loading of CENH3 to centromeres, indirect immunostaining using antibodies against A. thaliana CENH3 was applied to A. thaliana wild-type nuclei. The signal volumes and signal intensities in presumed G1 and G2 root tip nuclei with up to 10 signals were nearly identical, whereas in late G2 nuclei with 20 signals, both values were about doubled (Figure 4B). Thus, our data indicate that most of CENH3 is loaded during (late) G2 rather than during S phase or mitosis. To test whether the highly variable N-terminal part of CENH3 or rather the C-terminal part, which differs from H3 mainly as to the composition of the so-called loop 1 region, is responsible for recognition of centromere positions, DNA fragments encoding both parts were separately fused with EYFP and used to transform A. thaliana. While the N-terminal part yielded fluorescence equally distributed over the entire nuclei (Figure 5B ), the C-terminal part was targeted to chromocenters (Figure 5C). Thus, the C-terminal histone fold domain including the variable loop 1 region is apparently sufficient to direct the CENH3 to centromeres even when its N-terminal part is absent. Since computer analysis of A. thaliana CENH3 did not reveal any nuclear localization signal, CENH3 might be transported to nuclei by a carrier (or, in case of fragments, even via diffusion). [[FIGURE]] The CENH3 protein is highly conserved within the genus Arabidopsis (CITATION). A. thaliana and A. lyrata share 93% of amino acid residues of the C-terminal region and 77% of the N-terminal region (Figure 5A). To test whether A. thaliana CENH3 can recognize the three different types of centromeric repeats of A. lyrata (2n = 16), young seedlings of A. lyrata were transiently transformed with the corresponding construct of A. thaliana. Transformed A. lyrata nuclei showed up to 16 fluorescence signals (Figure 5D). This indicates that all A. lyrata centromeres are recognized irrespective of their repeat composition. However, A. thaliana CENH3 did not target the centromeres of a species as distantly related as Vicia faba. After transformation of hairy roots with the EYFP-CENH3 construct, EYFP fluorescence was found only within the cytoplasm (Figure 5E).
!~MM~! The EYFP DNA sequence was amplified with the primer pair 5′-ACCACTAGTATGGTGAGCAAGGGCGAGGAG-3′ and 5′-ACTGGATCCCTTGTACAGCTCGTCCATGCC-3′ from the pWEN18 vector, generating an SpeI linker sequence at the 5′ end and a BamHI linker sequence at the 3′ end. The stop codon of EYFP was not included. The amplified fragment was inserted downstream the 35S promoter in the unique SpeI and BamHI sites of the p35S-BAM vector (Schmidt, www.dna-cloning-service.de). To generate the p35S:EYFP-CENH3 fusion construct, the CENH3 sequence (HTR12 according to CITATION) of Arabidopsis thaliana, ecotype Columbia (Col), was amplified from cDNA obtained by reverse transcription of RNA isolated from flower buds with the primer pair 5′-ATACCCGGGATGGCGAGAACCAAGCATCGC-3′ and 5′-CCGGTCGACTCACCATGGTCTGCCTTTTCC-3′, including an XmaI restriction site at the 5′ end and a SalI site at the 3′ end for cloning into the p35S-BAM-EYFP vector in frame with EYFP. The resulting expression cassette, including 35S promoter, EYFP-CENH3, and Nos terminator, was subcloned into the pLH7000 vector containing the phosphinotricine resistance marker (www.dna-cloning-service.de) via the SfiI restriction site. To generate constructs for only N- or C-terminal parts of CENH3 fused with EYFP, the same primers as for full-length CENH3 (with an XmaI site as forward primer for the N terminus and a SalI site as reverse primer for the C terminus) and additional primers (reverse for the N terminus 5′-ATCGTCGACTCATCGTGGCATAGCCTGTCT-3′, including a SalI site and forward for the C terminus 5′-TTACCCGGGGGCTCACAGAAGAAGTCTTATC-3′, including an XmaI restriction site) were used. The resulting PCR fragments were cloned into the same vectors as above. Plants of A. thaliana accession Col were transformed according to the flower-dip method (CITATION). Transgenic EYFP-CENH3–containing progeny were selected after surface sterilization of seeds on Murashige and Skoog medium (CITATION) containing 8 mg/L of phosphinotricine. Growth conditions in a cultivation room were 20°C 16 h light/18°C 8 h dark. The 35S:EYFP-CENH3 plasmid was also used for particle bombardment of Arabidopsis lyrata seedlings grown on Murashige and Skoog plates (CITATION). Transient transformation was performed with 5 mg of plasmid DNA on 25-mg gold particles using a PDS-1000/HE system according to manufacturer's instructions (Bio- Rad). After bombardment, seedlings were incubated for 16 h under standard light/dark conditions prior to EYFP localization via fluorescence microscopy. Vicia faba hairy roots transgenic for EYFP-CENH3 were obtained as described (CITATION) except that the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain carried the EYFP-CENH3 vector in addition to the wild-type plasmid pRiA4. The hairy roots originating from cells cotransformed by both plasmids were selected based on their continuous growth on hormone-free medium supplemented with 10 mg/L phosphinotricine. EYFP fluorescence was examined either in vivo or after fixation of root tips in 4% formaldehyde for 10 min at 4°C. For in vivo EYFP analysis, 7- to 10-d-old seedlings were counterstained with DAPI (1 μg/mL) and placed on slides in a drop of water. For the isolation of leaf nuclei, plants were grown in soil in a cultivation room (see above). Leaves were fixed in 4% formaldehyde in Tris buffer (10 mM Tris, 10 mM Na2EDTA, and 100 mM Triton X-100, pH 7.5) for 20 min. Nuclei were isolated, stained with DAPI (1 μg/mL), and processed for flow sorting according to their fluorescence intensity reflecting the DNA content as described (CITATION). Approximately 1000 nuclei of each fraction were sorted onto microscopy slides into a drop containing 100 mM Tris, 50 mM KCl, 2 mM MgCl2, 0.05% Tween 20, and 5% sucrose, air-dried, and used for immunolabeling and/or FISH or stored at −20°C. For isolation of nuclei from roots and leaves, seeds of A. thaliana wild-type accession Col and EYFP-CENH3 transgenic plants were germinated in Petri dishes on wet filter paper or on agar medium for 5 to 6 d at room temperature. For flow cytometric measurements of the relative fluorescence intensity of EYFP-CENH3, nuclei were isolated from unfixed leaves or roots. Flow cytometry was performed on the flow sorter FACSAria (BD Biosciences) equipped with a 407- and 488-nm laser for excitation of DAPI and EYFP, respectively. DAPI was measured at 450 nm and EYFP at 530 nm. Seeds of the wild type and transformed A. thaliana were germinated in Petri dishes on wet filter paper for 3 d at room temperature. Seedlings were fixed for 20 min with ice-cold 4% (w/v) paraformaldehyde in MTSB buffer (50 mM PIPES, 5 mM MgSO4, and 5 mM EGTA, pH 6.9). After washing 3 × 10 min in MTSB, the seedlings were digested at 37°C for 10 min with a PCP enzyme mixture (2.5% pectinase, 2.5% cellulase Onozuka R-10, and 2.5% Pectolyase Y-23 [w/v] dissolved in MTSB). After washing 3 × 10 min in MTSB, root tips were squashed in a drop of MTSB buffer. After freezing in liquid nitrogen, the cover slips were removed and the slides were immediately transferred into MTSB. Meiotic chromosomes were prepared from flower buds using the same procedure with 40 min of digestion in PCP. Immunostaining of nuclei/chromosomes was performed as described (CITATION). EYFP-CENH3 was detected with rabbit polyclonal antisera against GFP (1:500; BD Biosciences) and goat anti-rabbit Cy3 (1:100; Sigma-Aldrich). Endogenous CENH3 was detected using antibodies against A. thaliana CENH3 (1:500) and goat anti-rabbit rhodamine (1:100; Jackson Immuno Research Laboratories). FISH on slides with sorted and squashed nuclei was performed according to CITATION. As probe, pAL harboring the ∼180-bp centromere- specific repeat (CITATION) was labeled with digoxigenin-dUTP by PCR with sequence-specific primers. The FISH signals were detected using mouse anti-Dig (1:250; Roche) and goat anti-mouse Alexa 488 (1:200; Molecular Probes). For colocalization of CENH3 immunosignals with pAL FISH signals, immunostaining and FISH were performed subsequently; after immunostaining, nuclei were fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde/3.6% sucrose. Plant material (100 mg) was ground under liquid nitrogen and suspended in 500 μL solubilization buffer (56 mM Na2CO3, 56 mM dithiothreitol, 2% SDS, 12% sucrose, and 2 mM EDTA). After 15 min of incubation at 70°C, cell debri was removed by centrifugation. Protein concentration was determined according to CITATION. Protein samples were separated by SDS-PAGE in 12.5% polyacrylamide gels according to CITATION. After blotting, membranes were reversibly stained with 1% ponceau red. Membranes were incubated for 12 h at 10°C in TBS and 3% low-fat milk containing anti-CENH3, anti-GFP, or the secondary antibodies. Secondary anti-rabbit (Bio-Rad) antibodies conjugated to horseradish peroxidase were used to visualize immunocomplexes by an enhanced chemiluminescence detection kit (Bio-Rad) according to manufacturer's instructions. Images were acquired under identical conditions, ensuring that the strongest signal was below the saturation level, using a Zeiss epifluorescence microscope (Axiophot) equipped with ×25/0.80 and ×100/1.4 plan apochromat objectives and a three-chip CCD Sony color camera (DXC-950P). The microscope was integrated into a Digital Optical 3D Microscope system (Schwertner) to generate 3D extended focus images and stacks of optical sections through the specimens as the basis for fluorescence intensity as well as for size measurements of signals and nuclei along the x, y, and z axes. Measurement of speckle intensities from single optical sections of the 3D stacks was performed using TINA 2.0 software. An intensity threshold was set to computationally subtract the background pixels from the image. The corrected sum of gray level values of all signals within the nucleus was used to infer the CENH3 content. Nuclear and signal volumes were calculated according to the formula V = xyz π/6 and presented as mean values ± se. Statistical calculations were made using SigmaStat version 2.0 statistical software. Different groups of measurements were compared using one-way analysis of variance and subsequently the Tukey test. P values are given for significance estimation. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under the following accession numbers: At CENH3 (At1g01370), Aly CENH3 (AY612791), and At HistoneH3 (At4g40040).
