!~ABS~! NAC proteins are plant-specific transcriptional regulators. ATAF1 was one of the first identified NAC proteins in Arabidopsis. In present study, we characterized the ATAF1 expression and biological function in response to water deficit stress. ATAF1 mRNA expression was strongly induced by dehydration and abscisic acid (ABA) treatment, but inhibited by water treatment, suggesting a general role in drought stress responses. Transient expression analysis in onion epidermal cells indicated the nuclear localization for the ATAF1::GFP fusion protein. Yeast transactivation analysis showed that ATAF1 had ability to activate reporter gene expression. Furthermore, domain deletion analysis revealed that the ATAF1 transactivation activity was conferred by its C-terminal domain. When ATAF1 gene was knocked out by T-DNA insertions, Arabidopsis ataf1-1 and ataf1-2 mutants displayed a recovery rate about seven times higher than wild-type plants in drought response test. This ataf1 phenotype was coincident with the enhanced expression of stress responsive marker genes, such as COR47, ERD10, KIN1, RD22 and RD29A under drought stress. Above evidences suggest that ATAF1, as a transcriptional regulator, negatively regulates the expression of stress responsive genes under drought stress in Arabidopsis. 
!~RES~! A full-length ATAF1 cDNA was obtained by reverse transcription (RT)-PCR. A comparison between the cDNA and genomic DNA sequences revealed that the ATAF1 gene consists of three exons and two introns (Fig. 1A). ATAF1 is predicted to encode a 289 amino acid protein with an estimated molecular mass of 32.9 kDa. [[FIGURE]]  To investigate the physiological role of the ATAF1, a reverse-genetics approach was employed. Two different ATAF1 insertion alleles are registered in the Salk Institute Genomic Analysis Laboratory (SIGnAL) T-DNA Express Database (http://www.signal.salk.edu), and we obtained these lines, named ataf1-1 (SALK-067648) (inserted at 740 bp downstream of the start codon) and ataf1-2 (SALK-057618) (inserted at 986 bp downstream of the start codon), from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (NASC). Both T-DNA mutant alleles were inserted in the third intron of ATAF1 (Fig. 1A). The insertions were identified in homozygous plants harboring the ATAF1 gene knockout alleles by PCR. Plants homozygous for the ATAF1 mutation were identified by segregation analysis using the resistance marker kanamycin. PCR analysis of plants carrying a homozygous insertion consistently yielded a single band using the combination of gene-specific and T-DNA border primers; however, as a result of the large insert size, no band was found using the two gene-specific primers. Two-week-old WT, ataf1-1 and ataf1-2 seedlings were exposed to drought stress on filter paper for 3 h. Reverse transcript PCR analysis demonstrated that the two insertion alleles abolished ATAF1 transcript expression in ataf1-1 and ataf1-2 knockout mutant plants (Fig. 1B), indicating that these ATAF1 alleles (ataf1-1 and ataf1-2) were null. We did not observe a significant phenotypic change in ataf1 mutant plants compared with wild-type plants under normal growth conditions in the growth chamber, suggesting that ATAF1 may not function in normal plant growth and development. These findings are consistent with a low expression level of ATAF1 in adult plants under normal conditions. It is well known that ATAF1 is a NAC protein (Aida et al. CITATION). To further characterize the function of the ATAF1 protein under abiotic stress, five known stress-responsive NAC-domain proteins in Arabidopsis were used for alignment. Multiple sequence alignment was performed using the ClustalW (http://www.ch.embnet.org/software/ClustalW.html). Boxshade was produced by BOXSHADE (http://www.ch.embnet.org/software/BOX_form.html). From this alignment, it was clear that the ATAF1 protein contains the NAC conserved domain in its N-terminal region, which is further divided into five subdomains (I to V) (Ooka et al. CITATION). However, the C-terminal region is highly divergent from other known NAC-domain sequences (Fig. 2). This suggests that ATAF1 may play different roles with these five NAC proteins in response to stress. [[FIGURE]]  Phylogenetic analysis revealed that ATAF1 belongs to the ATAF subfamily, which includes seven NAC genes in Arabidopsis and can be further divided into two clades (Ooka et al. CITATION). Among these genes, ANAC019, ANAC055, and ANAC072 (RD26) have been reported to respond to abiotic stresses (Fujita et al. CITATION; Tran et al. CITATION; He et al. CITATION). However, the three members are not within the same clade in the phylogenetic tree containing ATAF1. This implied that the functions of ATAF1 are likely to differ from those of ANAC019, ANAC055 and ANAC072 in abiotic stress responses. Phylogenetic analysis also indicated that the closest relative of ATAF1 is the NAC protein encoded by At1g77450, whose mRNA expression was putatively induced by multiple abiotic stresses in previous microarray data analyses (Seki et al. CITATION, CITATION). However, the detailed biological function of At1g77450 remains unknown. To identify the function of the ATAF1 gene under abiotic stress, we initially carried out RNA blot analysis to verify whether ATAF1 gene expression is regulated by drought stress. Three-week-old Arabidopsis plants were subjected to water (control) and dehydration (0, 2, 3, 5, or 10 h) as shown in Fig. 3A. We detected low level of ATAF1 mRNA expression under normal condition (water, 0 h). However, ATAF1 mRNA was almost undetectable after water treatment at 2, 3, 5, or 10 h, indicating that the ATAF1 transcript was inhibited by H2O. Notably, ATAF1 transcript levels were highly up-regulated by dehydration treatments. At all time points, transcript levels were higher in dehydration-treated samples than in the untreated controls. ATAF1 transcript levels began to increase within 2 h of dehydration treatment, and reached the maximum after 3 h. [[FIGURE]]  Because drought stress can induce the accumulation of ABA (Shinozaki and Yamaguchi-Shinozaki CITATION; Xiong et al. CITATION; Zhu CITATION), ATAF1 expression was further investigated in response to exogenous ABA by quantitative real-time RT-PCR. The results indicated that the expression of ATAF1 was also induced by 100 μM ABA treatment (Fig. 3B). Similar to drought treatment, ABA treatment significantly increased ATAF1 transcript levels within 2 h (three-fold over control levels), and reached a maximum after 5 h (six-fold over control levels). These findings suggest that the ATAF1 gene product is a drought- and ABA-inducible protein, and may importantly contribute to Arabidopsis thaliana response to drought stress. NAC family proteins contain a highly conserved domain within the N-terminus, which may function as a potential nuclear localization signal (NLS). ATAF1 is a putative NAC-domain transcription factor. However, the subcellular localization of the ATAF1 protein is unknown. To investigate the subcellular localization of ATAF1 protein, the coding region of ATAF1 was fused in-frame at its C terminus with the GFP marker. This construct was co-bombarded into onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells where the ATAF1–GFP fusion protein was expressed under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. The subcellular localization of the ATAF1–GFP fusion protein was determined by visualization under a confocal microscope. In 80 control cells, the GFP signal was consistently observed within both the cytoplasm and nucleus (Fig. 4A–C). In contrast, the ATAF1–GFP fusion protein was located exclusively within the nucleus in the 100 cells examined (Fig. 4D–F), indicating that ATAF1 is a nuclear-localized protein. [[FIGURE]]  Although a fragment of the ATAF1 protein lacking 31 amino acids from the N-terminus was previously mentioned to have transactivation activity by personal communication (Souer et al. CITATION), to date, the data have not been published. Therefore, we further examined the transcription activation activity of the full ATAF1 protein using a yeast expression system. The yeast strain AH109 was transformed with the fusion plasmids pBD-ATAF1, pBD-ATAF1-N, pBD-ATAF1-C, and pBD (control) (Fig. 5A). The growth status of these transformants was subsequently evaluated. Figure 5B demonstrates that the yeast cells containing pBD-ATAF1 and pBD-ATAF1-C grew well in the SD medium lacking histidine, whereas cells containing pBD-ATAF1-N and pBD did not. In the presence of 5 bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-galactopyranoside (X-Gal), the yeast cells that grew on the SD medium without histidine turned blue (Fig. 5B), indicating that the other reporter gene, LacZ, was also activated. Notably, all yeast cells grew well on SD medium lacking tryptophan. These results suggest that the full length ATAF1 and the C-terminal domain have transcription activation activity, whereas the N-terminal domain does not. [[FIGURE]]  To further characterize the function of the ATAF1 gene under drought stress in vivo, ataf1 and wild-type plants were transferred from plates into saturated soil for phenotypic observation. Upon transplantation, the soil moisture was adequate, and the mutant and wild-type plants were not watered until the recovery experiment. In the 25 days after being transplanted into the soil, plants grew readily under normal water conditions. During this time, no differences in morphological characteristics or flowering period were observed between mutant and wild-type plants. As the soil in the plastic basin became increasingly dry, soil osmotic stress began affecting the plants’ growth. From days 25–30, the treated plants slowly began to wilt. By 30 days, mature leaf margins displayed a mild curling (Fig. 6A(I)). After continued drought treatment for an additional 4 days, both mutant and wild-type plants exhibited significant wilting. However, there were no observed differences in phenotype (Fig. 6A(II)). At this time, watering was resumed, and plants were scored for recovery from the drought stress. Four hours and 2 days after re-watering, photos were taken (Fig. 6A (III) and (IV)). The majority of ataf1 mutant plants recovered after the resumption of watering, but the recovery of wild-type plants was reduced significantly after the drought treatment. Specifically, only 8.57% (9/105) of water-stressed wild-type plants recovered, whereas 59.05% (62/105) of ataf1-1 and 61.9 % (65/105) ataf1-2 plants recovered (Fig. 6B). ataf1-1 and ataf1-2 plants displayed a similar dehydration tolerance phenotype. The phenotype could not be detected in the ataf1 heterozygous mutants. These results strongly support the involvement of ATAF1 in drought tolerance. [[FIGURE]]  We observed enhanced tolerance to drought stress in ataf1 mutant plants compared with wild-type plants. The ATAF1 gene is believed to encode a NAC family protein that may function as transcriptional regulator. Therefore, we evaluated whether the expression of stress-responsive genes in ataf1 mutant plants was altered under drought condition. We chose to monitor the expression patterns of several stress marker genes, including COR47, ERD10, KIN1, RD22 and RD29A, in the wild-type (control) and ataf1 mutant plants. Because the T-DNA insertion mutants ataf1-1 and ataf1-2 displayed similar phenotypes under drought stress conditions (Fig. 6), we used ataf1-1 for a detailed analysis of the stress-responsive gene expression. As shown in Fig. 7, the COR47, ERD10, KIN1, RD22 and RD29A gene transcripts were not detectable in wild-type and ataf1-1 mutant plants under normal conditions (drought, 0 h). Consistent with findings from previous studies (Yamaguchi-Shinozaki and Shinozaki CITATION; Kiyosue et al. CITATION; Yamaguchi-Shinozaki and Shinozaki CITATION; Bohnert et al. CITATION; Ingram and Bartels CITATION; Bray CITATION; Shinozaki and Yamaguchi-Shinozaki CITATION, CITATION; Taji et al. CITATION; Shinozaki and Yamaguchi-Shinozaki CITATION), drought treatment in the present study induced the expression of stress gene markers such as COR47, ERD10, KIN1, RD22 and RD29A in the wild-type (control) plants. Marker genes were also induced in ataf1-1 mutant plants. However, ataf1-1 mutant plants produced higher levels of mRNA for the all selected stress gene markers at 2, 3 and 5 h after drought treatment. Therefore, these results from marker genes analysis support the hypothesis that ATAF1 may function in response to drought stress. [[FIGURE]]  To examine the expression pattern of the ATAF1 gene, we generated and analyzed ATAF1 promoter:GUS transgenic plants. The ATAF1 promoter fragment (2046-bp of 5′ flanking sequence) was used to drive expression of GUS in plants. After transformation with the plasmid pCAMBIA1381 (ATAF1 promoter:GUS) into wild-type Arabidopsis, numerous hygromycin-resistant plants were obtained and 20 independent transgenic lines were analyzed in the T1 generation by histochemical detection of GUS activity. The expression profiles for all lines were similar. Histochemical staining of seedlings revealed that ATAF1 promoter:GUS was expressed virtually throughout the entire plant during seedling development, as shown in Fig. 8A(a) and 8A(b). In 5-day-old seedlings, strong GUS staining was primarily localized in the mature zones of the roots, hypocotyl and cotyledons (Fig. 8A(a)). However, no GUS staining was detected at the root tip or in the elongating zone of the root (Fig. 8A(e)). Furthermore, staining was absent from epidermal or cortical cells of the root (Fig. 8A(f)). Figure 8A(c) demonstrates the typical GUS staining pattern found in rosette leaves of ATAF1 promoter:GUS plants. In all plants analyzed and in most leaves of these plants, GUS staining was detected in or along the vascular tissue. GUS activity was also strongly observed in the floral organs and cauline leaves. The apical stem of inflorescence was not stained (Fig. 8A(d)). Mature siliques typically displayed an additional, more general staining near both ends (Fig. 8A(h)). Strong expression was observed in stomatal guard cells of the mature leaf epidermis (Fig. 8A(g)). Vascular systems were also intensely stained throughout the entire plant, such as those present in roots (Fig. 8A(f)), leaves (Fig. 8A(a) and A(c)), siliques stems (Fig. 8A(h)), and several floral organs (Fig. 8A(d)). From these data, we concluded that the ATAF1 gene is nearly ubiquitously expressed in various plant organs. [[FIGURE]]  In addition, we further studied the expression pattern of the ATAF1 promoter::GUS under drought and ABA treatment in transgenic Arabidopsis plants. Figure 8B shows that both drought and ABA treatment can enhance the expression of GUS reporter gene. This result is consistent with the inducible expression of ATAF1 mRNA by drought and ABA treatment (Fig. 3). The 2046 bp promoter region of the ATAF1 gene was evaluated for the presence of putative cis-acting regulatory elements (Higo et al. CITATION). A number of consensus cis-acting elements were found in the ATAF1 promoters, consistent with the role of the gene in stress- and disease-responsive pathways. These include consensus sequences that mediate stress gene expression (ABRE, 5′-ACGTG-3′; DRE/CRT, 5′-ACCGAC-3′), sequences that mediate pathogen- and wound-induced gene expression (WRKY element), and sequences that mediate guard cell-specific expression (DOF core element) (Table 1). [[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]]
!~MM~!  Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia (Col) and T-DNA insertion mutants were used in this study. Seeds were surface-sterilized by soaking in a solution of Clorox plus 0.01% Triton X-I00 for 15 min and washed five times with sterilized water. The seeds were sown onto agar plates for germination. The agar medium contained Murashige and Skoog (MS) salts (Murashige and Skoog CITATION) with 2% (w/v) sucrose and 1.2% (w/v) agar, pH 5.8. The plates were then kept in the dark at 4°C for stratification for 3 days before being placed in a growth room for germination. When appropriate, seedlings were transferred to soil and grown to maturity. Temperature in the growth room was 23 ± 2°C. Light provided by cool-white fluorescent bulbs was 50–70 μE m−2 s−l (constant) for seedlings in agar plates and ∼100 μE m−2 s−l (16-h light/8-h dark) for potted plants. To obtain the full-length open reading frame of ATAF1 cDNA, total RNA isolated from 3 h drought-treated wild-type was heated to 65°C for 7 min and then subjected to a reverse transcription reaction using SuperScript II reverse transcriptase (200 units per reaction; Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) with oligo(dT) primer for 50 min at 42°C. The full-length cDNA of ATAF1 was amplified on dilute cDNA with Pfu polymerase using a forward primer (5′-AATGGATCCCGCCAAGTTTCAGAGGTAGAGAGA-3′) and reverse primer (5′-ATAGAGCTCTAAAACGGTCTCGTGTTGCCATAA-3′), containing BamHI and SacI sites, respectively. PCR products were purified by agarose gel electrophoresis, recombined with the pMD-18 plasmid (Takara), and sequenced. The cDNA sequences were identical to those of the spliced products predicted by the genomic accession. The SALK T-DNA lines used in this study were SALK-067648 (ataf1-1) and SALK-057618 (ataf1-2), and both were obtained from the NASC. Gene-specific PCR primers used for screening were 5′-CGCCAAGTTTCAGAGGTAGAGAGA-3′ and 5′-TAAAACGGTCTCGTGTTGCCATAA-3′. Primer LBb1 (5′-GCGTGGAAAAAC CGCTTGCTGCAACT-3′) was as described on the T-DNA Express Web site (http://www.signal.salk.edu/tdna_FAQs.html). PCR screening employed a three-primer PCR strategy that identified wild-type, heterozygous, and homozygous individuals in a single step using two gene-specific primers and LBb1. The T-DNA insertion in the mutant’s exact position was determined by sequencing. Plants homozygous for the ATAF1 mutation were used for further analysis. The cross was made to investigate the segregation of the mutants in F2: wild-type × ataf1 two times. To analyze the expression of ATAF1 by reverse transcriptase-mediated PCR, total RNA isolated from wild-type, ataf1-1 and ataf1-2 plants was heated to 65°C for 7 min and then subjected to reverse transcription reaction using M-MLV reverse transcriptase (Promega) with oligo(dT) primer for 50 min at 42°C. PCR was performed on dilute cDNA using Taq polymerase (Tianwei). The ATAF1 gene was amplified using the (5′-CGCCAAGTTTCAGAGGTAGAGAGA-3′) and (5′-TAAAACGGTCTCGTGTTGCCATAA-3′) primers. Tubulin expression level was used as a quantitative control. Tubulin was amplified using the 5′-CGTGGATCACAGCAATACAGAGCC-3′ and 5′-CCTCCTGCACTTCCACTTCGTCTTC-3′ primers. Aliquots of individual PCR products were resolved by agarose gel electrophoresis and visualized with ethidium bromide under UV light. The linear range of accuracy for the detection of each transcript was established by comparing samples run for different numbers of cycles. All final RT-PCR experiments were performed at least three times. Localization of the ATAF1 protein was assessed by transient expression of an ATAF1–GFP fusion protein in onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells. The termination codon of the ATAF1 coding region was removed with the following primers: forward 5′-GACTCTAGA ATGTCAGAATTATTACAGTTGCCTC-3′ (added XbaI site underlined, start codon in italics) and reverse 5′-CTTGGATCCGGTAAGGCTTCTGCATGTACATGAAC-3′ (added BamHI site underlined, stop codon deleted). Plasmid pMD-18-ATAF1 served as template. The PCR-amplified fragment was digested with XbaI and BamHI and inserted into a pBI221 plasmid containing the CaMV35S promoter and green fluorescence protein (GFP). The resulting construct was sequenced to confirm an intact in-frame fusion, and to check for the absence of nucleotide errors that may have been introduced by PCR. The plasmid DNA of pBI221–ATAF1–GFP was transiently introduced into onion epidermal cells on solid plates by a particle bombardment method essentially as described by Varagona (Varagona et al. CITATION), using a particle-gun (Bio-Rad). The bombarded onion cells were incubated for 18 h at 25°C in the dark. To view the transformed epidermal cells, the epidermal layer was pulled from a piece of onion with forceps and placed on a microscope slide. The layer of epidermal cells was kept moist with distilled water. The fluorescence of GFP fusion proteins was analyzed using a LSM 510 CLSM (Zeiss) equipped with an argon ion laser as the excitation source with the following parameters: emission at 488 nm, beam splitter at 545 nm, and excitation at 505–530 nm. Images were obtained using an LSM 510 image browser, version 3.0 (Zeiss) and were exported as TIFF files. Adobe Photoshop 7.0 was used for further processing of all the images. Each transfection experiment was repeated at least three times. Total RNA was prepared using TRIZOL® Reagent (Invitrogen) for Northern blot hybridization. The RNA concentration was estimated from the absorbance of the suspension at 260 and 280 nm. Fifteen micrograms of poly (A)+ RNA was loaded in each lane. The isolated total RNA was denatured with a mixture of 2.15 M formaldehyde and 50% formamide, then size-fractionated by electrophoresis on a 1.2% (W/V) agarose Mops-formaldehyde gel according to the protocol described previously (Sambrook et al. CITATION), and subsequently capillary-transferred to a Hybond-N+ filter membrane (Amersham Biosciences) using 20× SSC. The membranes were hybridized with the PCR fragment labeled with [α-32P]-dCTP, according to the TaKaRa Random Primer DNA Labeling Kit protocol, and hybridization was carried out at 65°C for 12 h. The membranes were washed twice with a mixture of 2× SSC and 0.5% SDS for 30 min at 65°C, then twice with the mixture of 0.5× SSC and 0.5% SDS for 15 min at 65°C. Exposure times varied from 1 to 5 days. The ATAF1-specific probe was amplified by PCR from cDNA using primers: 5′-GTGACGGAGATGGTTATGCC-3′ and 5′-TAAAACGGTCTCGTGTTGCCATAA-3′, including 3′-untranslated sequences. The RD29A gene-specific probe was from the 3′ noncoding region (Liu and Zhu CITATION); the DNA probe for RD22 was cloned from genomic DNA of wild-type Columbia plants by polymerase chain reaction by using the following primer pairs: 5′-AACGCACCGATGCAGAAGTACAAAA-3′ and 5′-CACAAGATACAGACCACAAAAGACA-3′; the specific probes for KIN1 (Kurkela and Borg-Franck CITATION), COR47 (Gilmour et al. CITATION) and ERD10 (Kiyosue et al. CITATION) were obtained by PCR from the genomic DNA of ecotype Col with the following primers: KIN1 (5′-GGCACCACACTCCCTTTAG-3′ and 5′-GAATATAAGTTTGGCTCGTC-3′); ERD10 (5′-GCCTGGACCCTCTACTTCACACACT-3′ and 5′-CTTCTTCCACTGTTTTCACATGATC-3′); COR47 (5′-TGGCTGAGGAGTACAAGAACAACG-3′ and 5′-CTTCACCGATCCAACAGCTCTTCT-3′). RNA samples from each experiment were analyzed on at least two independent blots, and each experiment was repeated at least twice. For quantitative real-time PCR, amplification was performed with oligonucleotides specific for the ATAF1 gene (forward primer: 5′-GAGTTCACGAGCGAGGTTCA-3′, reverse primer: 5′-TCCACGGTGGCATCAATGTA-3′). Amplification of ACTIN8 gene (forward primer: 5′-GGTAACATTGTGCTCAGTGGTGG-3′, reverse primer 5′-CACGACCTTAATCTTCATGCTGC-3′) was used as an internal control (Charrier et al. CITATION). Real-time quantitative PCR experiments were repeated six times independently, and the data were averaged across experiments. For real-time quantitative-PCR, the cDNA was amplified in the presence of SYBR-GreenR I intercalating dye (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR) at 0.125× final concentration using a DNA Engine Opticon 2 thermal cycler (MJ Research, Watertown, MA). The data obtained were analyzed with Opticon 2 software (MJ Research). The yeast strain AH109 harboring the LacZ and HIS3 reporter genes was used as an assay system. The coding sequences of ATAF1 and the fragments of ATAF1 encoding the N-terminus or C-terminus were obtained by PCR using primers: 5′-ATTGAATTCATGTCAGAATTATTACAGTTGCCTC-3′ and 5′-TTACTGCAGTCTAGTAAGGCTTCTGCATGTACATG-3′, for ATAF1; 5′-ATTGAATTCATGTCAGAATTATTACAGTTGCCTC-3′ and 5′-TTACTGCAGTTTTTTTGTTGTAAATCCGGCAGAGA-3′, for the N-terminal end of ATAF1; 5′-ATTGAATTCGGAGCTACCGAGAGGCGGGGACCACC-3′ and 5′-TTACTGCAGTCTAGTAAGGCTTCTGCATGTACATG-3′, for the C-terminal end of ATAF1. The PCR products were cloned into the pBD vector (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA, USA) containing the GAL4 DNA binding domain to obtain pBD-ATAF1, pBD-ATAF1-N and pBD-ATAF1-C. According to the protocol provided by the manufacturer (Stratagene), pBD-ATAF1, pBD-ATAF1-N, pBD-ATAF1-C, the positive control pGAL4 and the negative control pBD vector were all transformed into the yeast strain AH109. The transformed strains were confirmed by PCR and then were streaked on SD/Trp− or SD/His− plates. The transcription activation activities were evaluated according to their growth status. The plates were incubated for 3 days and subjected to a β-gal assay. Three-week-old plate-grown plants were harvested from MS agar plates, and then dehydrated on Whatman 3 MM paper at room temperature and approximately 60% humidity under dim light. Plants subjected to ABA treatment were grown hydroponically in a solution containing 100 μM ABA under dim light. In each case, plants were subjected to the stress treatments for various times and were frozen in liquid nitrogen. For stress marker genes expression analysis, 3-week-old plants grown in soil were carefully removed and dehydrated on filter paper as described by Yamaguchi-Shinozaki and Shinozaki (CITATION). The plants were subjected to stress treatments for various periods (0, 2, 3, and 5 h), then quickly frozen in liquid nitrogen for subsequent analysis.  Arabidopsis plants were germinated and grown on MS plates for 7 days. The plants were transferred to 30 × 20 cm white plastic basins filled with a mixture of organic substrate and vermiculite (1:1, v/v). Plants were grown under 12-h light/12-h dark photoperiods with illumination of approximately 2,500 lux at 22°C. Drought stress was imposed by withholding water until the beginning of the re-watering assay. Plants were photographed, and the numbers of plants that survived and continued to grow were counted. The statistical significance of the values was determined by the χ 2-test. P values <0.05 were considered significant in all cases. Water loss and standardized water content were measured as described (Fujita et al. CITATION). A 2046-bp-long DNA fragment upstream from the translational initiation codon of the ATAF1 gene was amplified by PCR with following primers: ATAF1-GUS-Forward, 5′-ATAGGATCCGGTTTCTGTTGCCACCTCCCC-3′ (added BamHI site underlined); ATAF1-GUS-Reverse, 5′-AATCTGCAGAGTTTACCCTCTTTCTTAATATTATTG-3′ (added PstI site underlined), and genomic DNA from Arabidopsis wild-type as template. The resulting fragment was cut with BamHI and PstI (at the inserted sites) and inserted into the pCAMBIA 1381 binary vector (ATAF1 promoter inserted upstream of the GUS reporter gene). The ATAF1 promoter in the constructed plasmid was sequenced to confirm the absence of PCR-induced nucleotide changes. Finally, this ATAF1 promoter-GUS construct was introduced into the Agrobacterium strain GV3101 and transformed into wild-type Arabidopsis by the floral dip method (Clough and Bent CITATION). We obtained 30 independent lines of hygromycin-resistant transgenic plants. Mature T3 seeds were used for subsequent experiments. In situ GUS activity assays were performed as described (Jefferson et al. CITATION). The transgenic plants were immersed in a 1 mM 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-glucuronic acid solution in 100 mM sodium phosphate, pH 7.0, 0.1 mM EDTA, 0.5 mM ferricyanide, and 0.1% Triton X-100. For expression pattern analysis, plants were incubated at 37°C for 12 h. Under water, drought and ABA treatment, they were incubated for 5 h. Chlorophyll was cleared from the plant tissues by immersing them in 70% ethanol.
