!~ABS~! As part of our analysis of branched-chain amino acid metabolism in plants, we analyzed the function of Arabidopsis thaliana BRANCHED-CHAIN AMINOTRANSFERASE4 (BCAT4). Recombinant BCAT4 showed high efficiency with Met and its derivatives and the corresponding 2-oxo acids, suggesting its participation in the chain elongation pathway of Met-derived glucosinolate biosynthesis. This was substantiated by in vivo analysis of two BCAT4 T-DNA knockout mutants, in which Met-derived aliphatic glucosinolate accumulation is reduced by ∼50%. The increase in free Met and S-methylmethionine levels in these mutants, together with in vitro substrate specificity, strongly implicate BCAT4 in catalysis of the initial deamination of Met to 4-methylthio-2-oxobutyrate. BCAT4 transcription is induced by wounding and is predominantly observed in the phloem. BCAT4 transcript accumulation also follows a diurnal rhythm, and green fluorescent protein tagging experiments and subcellular protein fractions show that BCAT4 is located in the cytosol. The assignment of BCAT4 to the Met chain elongation pathway documents the close evolutionary relationship of this pathway to Leu biosynthesis. In addition to BCAT4, the enzyme methylthioalkylmalate synthase 1 has been recruited for the Met chain elongation pathway from a gene family involved in Leu formation. This suggests that the two pathways have a common evolutionary origin.
!~RES~! In a previous complementation analysis, BCAT4 failed to rescue the auxotrophy of a yeast double knockout mutant for BCAAs, suggesting a function other than typical BCAA metabolism (CITATION). To get more information about the potential role of this protein, we compared AtGenExpress expression profile data of BCAT4 with those of ∼60 other genes potentially involved in the metabolism of branched-chain and other amino acids. This revealed an extraordinarily strong correlation of BCAT4 (At3g19710) expression with that of the MAM1 gene (At5g23010), which encodes a methylthioalkylmalate synthase (data not shown) (CITATION; CITATION; http://www.arabidopsis.org/info/expression/ATGenExpress.jsp). This enzyme belongs to the isopropylmalate synthase gene family, which has four members in Arabidopsis. While the function of one of these proteins (At1g18500) is unsolved, one (At1g74040) is most likely engaged in Leu biosynthesis. MAM1 (At5g23010) and MAM3 (formerly MAML [At5g23020]) are enzymes of the chain elongation pathway, the first phase in the biosynthesis of Met-derived glucosinolates (CITATION; CITATION). This pathway includes several transamination steps, and the striking correlation of MAM1 and BCAT4 transcription in Arabidopsis suggests that one or more of these steps might be catalyzed by the BCAT4-encoded aminotransferase (CITATION; CITATION). To investigate this possibility, enzyme assays were performed with recombinant BCAT4 protein and a variety of substrates. The complete BCAT4 reading frame was C-terminally fused to the S-Tag in the pET32a vector and expressed in Escherichia coli, and the resulting protein preparation was considerably enriched by affinity purification with S-protein agarose (see Supplemental Figure 1 online and Methods). If BCAT4 were to function in the chain elongation pathway, strong activities would be expected with Met and its elongated derivatives and with the corresponding 2-oxo acids. The activity of recombinant BCAT4 was first assayed with MTOB using a coupled enzyme test established for BCATs from animals (CITATION). This assay has been applied previously to investigate the mitochondrial BCAT1 of Arabidopsis (At1g10060) (CITATION). For MTOB, plotting of reaction velocities and substrate concentrations revealed that the enzyme exhibits Michaelis-Menten kinetics (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). Km and Vmax, calculated by fitting the data into a nonlinear regression, were found to be 0.045 ± 0.006 mM (Km) and 2.7 ± 0.09 μmol/min·mg (Vmax), respectively. Based on these results, activities with different 2-oxo acids were measured at two substrate concentrations: 0.1 and 2.0 mM. These are expressed relative to the activity with MTOB, which was arbitrarily set to 100% (Table 1 , top part). Besides the strong activity detected with this substrate, considerable activities were found with 5-methylthio-2-oxopentanoate (MTOP; 48 and 53% of MTOB at 0.1 and 2.0 mM, respectively). No activity has been observed with 6-methylthio-2-oxohexanoate (MTOH), 3-methyl-2-oxopentanoate (3MOP), or 3-methyl-2-oxobutyrate (3MOB), the latter being the 2-oxo acids of Ile and Val, respectively. Distinct activities were seen with 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoate (4MOP), the 2-oxo acid of Leu. While no substrate conversion was detected at a concentration of 0.1 mM, a relative activity of 41% in comparison to MTOB was found at 2 mM substrate concentration. No activities were found with a control lysate obtained from E. coli expressing an empty pET32a vector, confirming that the measured activities originate from overexpressed BCAT4 and not from any copurified E. coli proteins. Relative Substrate Specificities of Recombinant BCAT4 To identify optimal concentrations for relative substrate specificity assays with amino acids, the kinetic of the deamination of Met by the recombinant BCAT4 was determined. This was found to follow a Michaelis-Menten behavior (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). For Met, Km and Vmax values were calculated to be 0.93 ± 0.08 mM and 0.089 ± 0.002 μmol/min·mg protein, respectively. According to these data, various substrates were measured at 1 and 5.0 mM with an HPLC-based activity and detection system as described in Methods (Table 1, bottom part). The activity with Met was used as standard and was arbitrarily set to 100%. At both substrate concentrations, BCAT4 indeed displayed its highest relative activities with this amino acid. Substantial activities were also measured with homomethionine (37% at 1 mM and 65% at 5 mM) and with Leu (29% at 1 mM and 62% at 5 mM), while only little or no activity was detected with Ile (8% at 5 mM) and Val (Table 1, bottom part). We also studied the kinetics of BCAT4 with Leu and observed a perfect Michaelis-Menten correlation. Km and Vmax values were found to be 4.86 ± 0.41 mM and 0.11 ± 0.004 μmol/min·mg protein, respectively (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). Thus, the affinity of BCAT4 to Leu is about five times lower than to Met. Taken together, BCAT4 catalyzes the transamination of typical intermediates of the Met chain elongation pathway, supporting a role for this protein in this pathway. These results are consistent with the inability of BCAT4 to restore the BCAA auxotrophy of a respective yeast double knockout strain, which lacks endogenous BCAT activity (CITATION). To examine the function of BCAT4 in vivo, two T-DNA insertion mutants obtained from the SALK and GABI-Kat collections were investigated (CITATION; CITATION). The SALK mutant (013627, designated bcat4-1) is predicted to contain the T-DNA in the last exon (Figure 1A ). An examination of this line by PCR with gene-specific primers and oligonucleotides specific for right and left borders confirmed the T-DNA in the predicted site (data not shown). The left border primer generates PCR fragments with BCAT4-specific primers annealing to both T-DNA flanking sequences, indicating that at least two left border sequences are present (Figure 1A). Direct sequencing of these PCR fragments identified the insertion at cDNA positions 2142 and 2147 with respect to the ATG (+1), indicating a five-nucleotide deletion. The genotype analysis identified plants #24 and #6 to be homozygous for T-DNA allele bcat4-1, while no insertion could be detected in the BCAT4 gene in plant #7, which is regarded as a wild-type plant from the SALK collection (data not shown). These plants and a normal Columbia (Col-0) wild type were selected for RNA gel blot analysis with a BCAT4-specific probe corresponding to exons 1 to 3 amplified with primers Bcat4UE.H and Bcat4-5′.R (Figure 1A). A strong signal corresponding to a 1.25-kb mRNA was detected in plants carrying a wild-type allele (Figure 1B, left panel). An ∼500-nucleotide-larger transcript is detected in homozygous bcat4-1 plants, indicating accumulation of a bcat4-1 allele-specific transcript. A densitometric quantification of the RNA gel blot results revealed the latter to accumulate to ∼20% of the wild-type level. [[FIGURE]] In the GABI-Kat mutant (163D11, named bcat4-2), likewise two T-DNA left border extremities were found in the predicted location in intron 2 (Figure 1A). The RNA gel blot analysis again detected 1.25-kb mRNAs in the wild-type plants (#3 and #6), while very small transcripts with a size of <0.5 kb were found in bcat4-2 homozygous plants #2 and #4 (Figure 1B). Immunodetection analysis with an antibody raised against the C-terminal dodecapeptide of BCAT4 confirmed that a native BCAT4 protein is not detectable in the plants homozygous for alleles bcat4-1 and -2, so that these lines are complete knockouts (see below; data not shown). Offspring of mutant plants #24 (bcat4-1) and #4 (bcat4-2) and different wild-type plants of ecotype Col-0 from various sources, including plants #7 and #3 from the SALK and GABI-Kat collections, respectively, were selected for glucosinolate profiling. In leaves, total glucosinolate contents were reduced from 27.23 (±2.65) μmol/mg dry weight in the wild type to 17.62 (±0.99) in bcat4-1 and from 24.87 (±0.11) μmol/mg dry weight in the wild type to 16.66 (±1.83) in bcat4-2 (Table 2 ). This corresponds to a reduction to ∼65 and 67%, respectively. The reduction is even stronger when only Met-derived glucosinolates are considered. These secondary compounds were reduced from 21.54 (±1.80) μmol/mg dry weight in the wild type to 11.38 (±0.90) in bcat4-1 and from 21.04 (±0.10) μmol/mg dry weight in the wild type to 11.37 (±1.23) in bcat4-2, equivalent to a reduction to 53 and 54%, respectively (Table 2). By contrast, total indolic glucosinolates were slightly increased in the mutants. In seeds, similar reductions were observed. Here, total Met-derived glucosinolates were reduced from 83.23 (±7.08) μmol/mg in the wild type to 42.22 (±2.42) in bcat4-1 and from 111.78 (±18.12) μmol/mg in the wild type to 63.12 (±9.40) in bcat4-2, which corresponds to a reduction to 51 and 56%, respectively (Table 3 ). These reductions are given with respect to the glucosinolate content of the different wild-type plants isolated from the seed pool obtained for each mutant and from normal wild-type plants. The amounts and profiles measured in the plants are in the range found previously in Arabidopsis ecotype Col-0 (CITATION). In leaves of the mutants, strong reductions were observed for almost all types of Met-derived glucosinolates measured, including the most abundant 4-methylsulfinylbutylglucosinolate (4MSOB). Only 5-methylsulfinylpentylglucosinolate (5MSOP) remained unaffected in the mutants. Likewise in seeds, most types of these aliphatic glucosinolates were reduced, including the most prominent 4-methylthiobutylglucosinolate (4MTB). However, in this tissue, 4MSOB and 5MSOP are more abundant in the mutants by a factor of 2.2 and 2.4, respectively (Table 3). In plant #4, homozygous for bcat4-2, almost the same alterations were observed, including the increase of 4MSOB and 5MSOP levels in seeds and unchanged amounts of 5MSOP in leaves. A slight discrepancy was observed for 4-hydroxybutylglucosinolate (4OHB) in seeds, which was somewhat reduced in plant #24 homozygous for bcat4-1 (factor of 1.6) but was slightly elevated in plant #4 homozygous for bcat4-2 (factor of 1.2; Table 3). Glucosinolate Content in Rosette Leaves Glucosinolate Content in Seeds Taken together, both mutants bcat4-1 and -2 clearly have reduced levels of Met-derived glucosinolates, strongly suggesting a participation of BCAT4 in one or several transamination reactions of the Met chain elongation pathway. Since the glucosinolates, reduced in the bcat4 T-DNA mutants, are derived from Met, it is possible that a reduction of these secondary metabolites might lead to a buildup of Met. We therefore determined and compared the amounts of free amino acids in bcat4-1 and -2 homozygous plants with wild-type concentrations. Indeed, in leaves, the level of free Met was found increased from 0.12 (±0.05) to 0.59 (±0.09) and from 0.06 (±0.00) to 0.74 (±0.39) nmol/mg dry weight, which corresponds to an approximate fivefold (bcat4-1) and 12-fold (bcat4-2) increase, respectively (Table 4 ). All other proteinogenic amino acids measured in this tissue did not show any clear changes, except Thr, which showed an increase of ∼25%. In seeds, a slightly weaker increase of free Met was detected from 0.08 (±0.03) to 0.28 (±0.05) nmol/mg and 0.09 (±0.02) to 0.43 (±0.09) nmol/mg seed with a threefold and fivefold increase in bcat4-1 and bcat4-2, respectively, compared with the wild type. However, in this organ, the levels of His, Ile, Lys, and Ser showed significant increases in the mutants (Table 5 ). Since S-adenosylmethionine (AdoMet) and SMM are the major derivatives of Met, it seemed probable that the level of at least one of these compounds might also be elevated in the mutants. SMM, which is the main transport form of Met, is a major constituent of the phloem sap in wheat (Triticum aestivum) directed to the developing seeds (CITATION). It is thus present in the phloem, the main tissue in which BCAT4 is expressed (see below) and where an excess of Met could lead directly to an increase of this transport compound. To investigate this, we measured SMM in leaves of wild-type plants and found SMM at levels of ∼0.3 nmol/mg dry weight, which is in the range reported previously (Table 4; CITATION). In the same tissue of the mutants, SMM was found to be increased by a factor of three (0.84 [bcat4-1] and 0.96 [bcat4-2] nmol/mg dry weight, respectively). By contrast, a totally different situation was found in seeds. While SMM could not be detected in this organ from wild-type plants, extremely high levels of this compound were observed in bcat4-1 (4.29 nmol/mg seeds) and in bcat4-2 (8.65 nmol/mg seeds) (Table 5). These levels exceed almost all other free amino acids measured in seeds of both wild-type and mutant plants. This sharp increase of free Met and its transport derivative SMM further support the conclusion that BCAT4 catalyzes the initial transamination of Met in glucosinolate formation generating MTOB. Free Amino Acids in Rosette Leaves Free Amino Acids in Seeds In a previous analysis, the BCAT4 promoter activity was mainly found in the vasculature of cotyledons and leaves, but it remained unclear whether the transcriptional activity resides directly in the veins or in the neighboring tissue (CITATION). To investigate BCAT4 promoter activity in more detail, segments of a flowering stalk of a transgenic plant carrying a BCAT4 promoter:β-glucuronidase (GUS) construct were histochemically stained, and cross sections through the intensively colored ends were inspected by light microscopy (Figures 2A and 2B ). Blue staining is restricted to the phloem, while no staining could be detected in cells directly adjacent to the phloem cells or in any other cells of the stalk. This includes the so-called S-cells, which have been identified between the phloem and the endodermis of flowering stalks. These cells have been suggested to be the predominant storage sites for glucosinolates (CITATION). Thus, biosynthesis of Met-derived glucosinolates starts in a tissue adjacent to the major storage cells. Likewise, BCAT4 promoter activity is found in the stele of the roots (Figure 2C). The examination of cross sections again identified promoter activity in phloem cells (Figure 2D). [[FIGURE]] In leaves, BCAT4 promoter activity was almost exclusively found in veins in distinct areas in the basal part of the leaf blade and in petioles (CITATION). This pattern might be induced when the leaf is cut from the plant. Strong staining of the stalk segments is also found at the cut surface. To analyze whether BCAT4 promoter activity is indeed induced by wounding, leaf tips were cut off with scissors, squeezed with forceps, or pierced with a pin while the leaf was still attached to the plant. After 5 min, leaves were separated from the plant and transferred to staining buffer. Besides the expected staining of the cut surface of the petiole, strong staining was seen in veins within or very close to areas of mechanical wounding (Figure 3A ). Staining of untreated control leaves was found only at the site of cutting on the petiole (data not shown; CITATION). This strongly suggests that wounding indeed induces BCAT4 promoter activity. [[FIGURE]] To examine this phenomenon by an independent method and to get more information about the time dependence of the response, leaves wounded by squeezing were harvested at different time points after treatment and analyzed by RNA gel blot analysis with a BCAT4 probe. A 1.9-fold increase of BCAT4 steady state mRNA level can already be observed 5 min after wounding (Figure 3B, top panel). After that, only a small further increase of mRNA accumulation was detected (maximum of 2.6-fold). The transcript level starts to drop after 1 h and seems to return to the original level after 2 h. A similar pattern is found with the steady state level of MAM1 mRNA. After 5 min, the MAM1 transcript level is increased by a factor of 1.5, a maximum is reached after 15 min (1.9-fold increase), and the expression level starts to drop after 1 h (Figure 3B, bottom panel). The experiments described above demonstrate that BCAT4 might catalyze the initial and/or other early steps in the chain elongation pathway of Met. Thus, it might be one of the regulators controlling the flux from primary to secondary metabolism. To gather more information about regulation of this gene, transcript levels were examined in plants grown under a 12-h-light/12-h-dark regime. Leaves were harvested at 4-h intervals, and the isolated total RNA was inspected by RNA gel blot hybridization. While only low BCAT4 mRNA levels were observed during the night, an up to fivefold increase was found upon illumination (Figure 4 , top panel). The level remains high under continued exposure to light. An analogous pattern is found in a parallel experiment with MAM1 (Figure 4, middle panel), demonstrating the light-dependent transcript accumulation of both genes. This suggests a diurnal expression of both proteins and demonstrates that simultaneous expression of BCAT4 and MAM1 extends beyond tissue specificity and promoter activation by wounding to a temporal correlation. [[FIGURE]] The subcellular localization of the Met elongation pathway has been so far unclear. The previously identified MAM proteins are in silico predicted to be located in plastids (S. Binder, unpublished data). This subcellular localization has now been experimentally confirmed for MAM3 (S. Textor, J.-W. de Kraker, B. Knoke, S. Schuster, J. Gershenzon, and J. Tokuhisha, unpublished data). To address this question for BCAT4, the subcellular targeting of this protein was analyzed by green fluorescent protein (GFP) tagging. The cDNA representing the complete BCAT4 reading frame was fused to the 5′ terminus of the smGFP4 gene (CITATION). This construct was then transiently transformed into tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) protoplasts, and targeting of the fusion protein was followed by fluorescence microscopy. The green fluorescence is seen exclusively in the cytosol (Figure 5A ). No GFP fluorescence was found in the nucleus, in which GFP alone is frequently observed. Also, no fluorescence was detectable in chloroplasts or peroxisomes, both of which are visible as negative prints within the cytosol (Figure 5A, left and center panels). Likewise, no green fluorescence is found in mitochondria, which were specifically stained with MitoTracker red, or any other subcellular compartment (Figure 5A, right panel). [[FIGURE]] To investigate the subcellular localization by an independent experimental approach, subcellular protein fractions were analyzed for the presence of BCAT4 (Figure 5B). A BCAT4-specific and affinity-purified antibody binds to this aminotransferase in fractions containing total soluble proteins and in a fraction enriched for cytosolic protein from wild-type plants. No BCAT4 protein can be detected in fractions containing purified chloroplasts or mitochondria (Figure 5B, @ BCAT4). The purity of the different fractions was tested with antibodies against cytosolic UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase, the plastid-located ferredoxin-NADP+ reductase, and the mitochondrial porin. UGPase, which in Arabidopsis presents as two almost identical proteins (At5g17310 [predicted mass of 51.9 kD] and At3g03250 [51.7 kD]; 93% identical amino acids), is found in the total soluble protein fractions and in the cytosol fraction but not in chloroplasts and mitochondria, documenting that no detectable cytosolic contamination is present in these fractions. The background signal observed in the chloroplast fraction is due to a highly abundant protein of this same size, which is also present in the total protein fractions but almost absent from the cytosolic and mitochondrial fractions. This protein is most likely the large subunit of ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase (data not shown). FNR proteins (At5g66190 [40.3 kD] and At1g20020 [41.2 kD]; 74% identical amino acids) are present in the total soluble protein fractions and in the cytosolic fraction but are predominantly found in chloroplasts. No FNR is present in mitochondria. The mitochondrial protein porin is not seen in the total soluble protein fractions, in the cytosol, or in the chloroplasts but is clearly detectable in the mitochondrial fraction. These experiments show that mitochondrial and chloroplast fractions are free or almost free of detectable amounts of contaminant proteins from the respective other subcellular fractions, while the cytosol seems to be slightly contaminated by plastids. However, considering the strong enrichment of the cytosol and chloroplast fractions and the exclusive detection of BCAT4 in the cytosol, these results clearly show that BCAT4 is a cytosolic protein. The relatively weak signal of BCAT4 in the cytosol is most likely due to the use of protoplasts as a source for the cytosol preparation. Cells of the phloem, where BCAT4 is mainly expressed (Figure 2), are most likely underrepresented in the protoplast preparation since their release from the leaf tissue is less efficient in comparison to mesophyll cells. Taken together, the two independent experimental approaches consistently show that BCAT4 is a cytosolic enzyme and is thus located in a compartment different from the MAM enzymes. No BCAT4 protein is found in the total soluble protein fractions of the bcat4-1 and bcat4-2 plants in line with the above characterization of these mutants as complete expressional knockouts (Figure 5B; data not shown).
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana plants ecotype Col-0, including the mutants, were grown on standard soil supplemented with Osmocote Exact Mini (Scotts) and Triabon in a growth chamber under a 16-h-light (160 to 200 μmol/m2s)/8-h-dark regime at 23°C. Plants used for the investigation of diurnal expression were cultivated under a 12-h-light/12-h-dark rhythm under otherwise identical conditions. For overexpression of BCAT4, the corresponding cDNA was amplified with primers bcat4UE.H (5′-AGGAATTCATGGCTCCTTCTGCGC-3′) and bcat4UE.R (5′-ACCTCGAGTCAGCCCTGGCGGTC-3′) on a cDNA clone described previously (CITATION). PCR was performed with the BD Advantage 2 PCR enzyme system (BD Bioscience) with 35 cycles, and the resulting cDNA fragment of 1063 nucleotides was digested with BamHI and XhoI, cloned into the respective sites in pET32a (Novagen), and completely sequenced using an ALF Express sequencer following standard procedures given by the manufacturer (Amersham Biosciences). Overexpression and enrichment on S-protein agarose, including the release of the recombinant BCAT4 protein from the N-terminal S-Tag, was performed according to the instructions given in the manual (Novagen). The amount of recombinant BCAT4 protein, which contains only a few additional amino acids at the N terminus, in the enriched fractions was determined in several independent enzyme preparations (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). These were separated by SDS-PAGE and stained with Coomassie Brilliant Blue. The amount of recombinant BCAT4 was then measured and calculated with the Fluor-S MultiImager and Multi-Analyst software (Bio-Rad). The percentage of recombinant BCAT4 in the enriched protein fraction was found to be 18.7% (±4.0) of the total protein in the enriched fraction. Kinetic studies with MTOB and activity assays with other 2-oxo acids were performed as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). Kinetic studies of recombinant BCAT4 with Met and Leu and the analysis of the relative substrate specificities for different amino acids were performed with an HPLC-based assay (CITATION; CITATION) with the modification that the amount of the coproduct Glu was measured. In the transamination reaction, Glu is generated in a 1:1 stoichiometry with the conversion of the amino acid to the respective 2-oxo acid (e.g., Met to MTOB). The correlation of the reaction velocity with the substrate concentration followed a typical Michaelis-Menten kinetic after the data were fitted into a nonlinear regression curve using Origin 7.0 software (OriginLab). All substrates if not otherwise mentioned were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich. MTOP and MTOH were synthesized by Applichem. Total RNA was isolated from 12-d-old plants using Plant RNeasy kits according to the manual supplied by the manufacturer (Qiagen). For RNA gel blot analysis, 10 μg/per lane of total RNA isolated as described above was separated by glyoxal agarose gel electrophoresis following standard protocols (CITATION). Size fractionated RNAs were then transferred to Duralon UV membranes (Stratagene) and hybridized with a cDNA probe labeled with the Rediprime II random prime labeling system (Amersham Biosciences) according to the instructions given by the manufacturer. The cDNA probe representing the first three exons was amplified with primers bcat4UE.H (5′-AGGAATTCATGGCTCCTTCTGCGC-3′) and bcat4-5′.R (5′-TGATCGACCGAAGGATAAGGC-3′). Transgenic Arabidopsis plants containing promoter:GUS reporter gene constructs were established and histochemically analyzed as described before (CITATION; CITATION). For wounding experiments, leaves of 20-d-old plants grown as outlined above were treated by squeezing with forceps, piercing with a needle, or by cutting off the tip with scissors. Leaves were separated from the plants 5 min after treatment and subsequently histochemically analyzed. For the RNA gel blot analysis, the apical half of the leaves was squeezed with forceps along the center vasculature, and the complete leaves were cut off from the plant at the respective time points. RNA was isolated as described above. Glucosinolate content and composition were analyzed in seeds and leaves as described previously (CITATION). Profiling of free amino acids in seeds and leaves was done by HPLC-based precolumn derivatization with o-phthalaldehyde/mercaptoethanol following a protocol described previously (CITATION; CITATION). The leaves were harvested from about 3-week-old plants prior to the development of an inflorescence. SMM was identified by comparing the retention time of a corresponding peak in the total free amino acid analysis with the peak observed in a control run with SMM obtained from Sigma-Aldrich. In addition, nonderivatized SMM was identified in the total free amino acid pool from seeds by HPLC tandem mass spectrometry according to a method described previously (CITATION). Total soluble protein was isolated from 14- to 21-d-old plants by the following protocol. Approximately 1 to 2 g of leaf material was ground in liquid nitrogen, and the tissue powder was dissolved in 100 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0. The solution was centrifuged for 10 min at 12,000g, and the volume of the supernatant was reduced in Amicon Ultra centrifugal filter devices (10 kD; Millipore). Cytosol protein fractions were purified from protoplasts obtained from leaves of 13- to 21-d-old Arabidopsis plants according to methods described previously (CITATION; CITATION). Chloroplasts were purified by differential centrifugation and purification on Percoll gradients as outlined previously (CITATION). Essentially the same procedure with parameters optimized for mitochondria was applied to isolate these organelles from Arabidopsis cell suspension culture (CITATION). The BCAT4 antibody was raised against the final dodecapeptide at the C terminus of BCAT4. The antibody was affinity purified using 100 μg ovalbumin-peptide conjugate, which was bound to nitrocellulose (1 cm2) for 30 min at room temperature. The membrane was blocked five times with blocking buffer (1× PBS, 0.1% [v/v] Tween 20, and 3% [w/v] BSA) for 2 min each at room temperature and then incubated in 2 mL antiserum diluted 1:10 with blocking buffer at 4°C overnight. The membrane was again washed three times in blocking buffer, and antibodies were released by an incubation in 1 mL elution buffer (0.2 M glycine-HCl, pH 3.0, 0.5 M NaCl, 1 mg/mL BSA, and 0.02% [w/v] NaN3) for 1 min at room temperature. The solution containing the antibody was neutralized by adding 100 μL 2 M Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, and used in a 1:10 dilution in the protein gel blot analysis. Antibodies against FNR and porin were used in 1:5000 and 1:2000 solution. The anti-UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase, which is raised against the respective protein from poplar, was purchased from Agrisera and used in a 1:3000 dilution. For immunodetection analysis, 25 μg of total soluble protein and 150 μg from the subcellular fractions were analyzed with anti-BCAT4, anti-porin, and anti-UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase antibodies, and 10 μg of total and 60 μg of the subcellular fractions were analyzed with the anti-FNR antibody. All immunodetection analyses were done following standard electrophoresis and blotting techniques (CITATION) and the ECL detection system following the instructions given by the manufacturer (Amersham Biosciences). For the analysis of the subcellular localization of BCAT4, the cDNA fragment containing the complete BCAT4 reading frame (354 amino acids without stop codon) was amplified by PCR using primers BCAT4GFP.H and BCAT4GFP.R on a respective cDNA clone. The resulting fragment was directly cloned into pGEM-T and confirmed by sequencing. The insert was removed from this plasmid by digestion with XbaI and SmaI and cloned in frame upstream of the GFP gene in the vector psmGFP4 (CITATION). Transformation of tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) protoplasts and fluorescence microscopy were done as described before (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). All standard methods used were performed according to established protocols (CITATION). Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers AJ271732 (BCAT4) and AY070471 (MAM1). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Purification of Recombinant BCAT4. Supplemental Figure 2. Kinetic of BCAT4 with MTOB. Supplemental Figure 3. Kinetic of BCAT4 with Met. Supplemental Figure 4. Kinetic of BCAT4 with Leu. Supplemental Figure 5. Time-Resolved Expression of BCAT4, MAM1, and Genes Involved in Met Biosynthesis.
