!~ABS~! Upon encountering oxidative stress, proteins are oxidized extensively by highly reactive and toxic reactive oxidative species, and these damaged, oxidized proteins need to be degraded rapidly and effectively. There are two major proteolytic systems for bulk degradation in eukaryotes, the proteasome and vacuolar autophagy. In mammalian cells, the 20S proteasome and a specific type of vacuolar autophagy, chaperone-mediated autophagy, are involved in the degradation of oxidized proteins in mild oxidative stress. However, little is known about how cells remove oxidized proteins when under severe oxidative stress. Using two macroautophagy markers, monodansylcadaverine and green fluorescent protein-AtATG8e, we here show that application of hydrogen peroxide or the reactive oxidative species inducer methyl viologen can induce macroautophagy in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) plants. Macroautophagy-defective RNAi-AtATG18a transgenic plants are more sensitive to methyl viologen treatment than wild-type plants and accumulate a higher level of oxidized proteins due to a lower degradation rate. In the presence of a vacuolar H+-ATPase inhibitor, concanamycin A, oxidized proteins were detected in the vacuole of wild-type root cells but not RNAi-AtATG18a root cells. Together, our results indicate that autophagy is involved in degrading oxidized proteins under oxidative stress conditions in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! Although autophagy has been suggested to be involved in resistance to oxidative stress in yeast (CITATION), the function of autophagy during oxidative stress and whether plant cells also use autophagy as a defense against oxidative stress is unclear. In a previous study, we characterized one marker for autophagy in Arabidopsis, the fluorescent dye MDC, which specifically stains autophagosomes (CITATION). To investigate whether oxidative stress can induce autophagy in Arabidopsis, we first examined the response of wild-type plants to two well-known oxidative stress inducers, H2O2 and MV. Whereas H2O2 can diffuse across membranes and cause damage directly to cellular components, MV acts by accepting electrons from PSI in chloroplasts and then reacting with oxygen to produce superoxide. Seven-day-old wild-type seedlings grown on nutrient Murashige and Skoog (MS) solid medium were transferred to the same medium plus 10 μm MV for 2 d or MS solid medium plus 10 mm H2O2 for 6 h, then stained with MDC. Numerous motile MDC-stained autophagosomes were detected in root cells after MV or H2O2 treatment, observed by fluorescence microscopy (Fig. 1, B and C) . These MDC-stained autophagosomes were absent from seedlings grown on control medium (Fig. 1A). These observations imply that autophagy can be induced by oxidative stress. [[FIGURE]] AtATG8 proteins have been shown to associate with autophagosomes, and GFP-AtATG8 fusion proteins have been used as markers of autophagosomes in Arabidopsis (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To further confirm the MDC staining results, we introduced a transgene expressing GFP-AtATG8e into wild-type ecotype Columbia plants. When grown on nutrient MS solid medium, GFP-AtATG8e was dispersed throughout the cytoplasm, and punctate autophagosome-like structures were not visible (CITATION; Supplemental Fig. S1). When these transgenic GFP-AtATG8e plants were transferred for 2 d to solid MS medium with 10 μm MV, numerous punctate structures were observed in root cells, similar to the MDC-stained punctate structures (Supplemental Fig. S1), indicating the presence of autophagosomes. Together, these results strongly suggest that autophagy is induced by oxidative stress. The AtATG18a protein is required for autophagosome formation in Arabidopsis, and its transcript is up-regulated both during Suc and nitrogen starvation and during senescence. RNAi-AtATG18a transgenic lines with reduced AtATG18a expression show hypersensitivity to Suc and nitrogen starvation and are unable to produce autophagosomes under these conditions (CITATION). To analyze the expression pattern of AtATG18a under oxidative stress conditions, total RNA was isolated from wild-type and RNAi-AtATG18a seedlings after incubation with 10 μm MV for up to 72 h, or in the absence of MV as a control, and reverse transcription (RT)-PCR was performed using primers specific for AtATG18a. As shown in Figure 2 , the transcript level of AtATG18a increased after MV treatment in wild-type seedlings. Although this expression increase was also seen in RNAi-AtATG18a seedlings, the level of AtATG18a transcript is much lower than in wild-type seedlings (Fig. 2). To determine whether autophagosome formation is disrupted in RNAi-AtATG18a root cells under oxidative stress, 7-d-old RNAi seedlings were transferred to solid MS medium plus 10 μm MV for 2 d or plus 10 mm H2O2 for 6 h, then stained with MDC (Fig. 1, B and C). Compared to wild-type seedlings, fewer MDC-stained autophagosomes were detected in the root tips of these RNAi seedlings (Fig. 1D). Both H2O2 and MV treatment caused an increase in ROS in wild-type and RNAi seedlings, as measured by Amplex Red measurement of H2O2 concentration, indicating that the lack of autophagosome production in the RNAi plants is not due to decreased production of ROS in these plants (Supplemental Fig. S2). Overall, RNAi-AtATG18a seedlings had higher ROS levels than wild type, possibly due to an increase in damaged organelles caused by the autophagy defect in these lines. These data suggest that AtATG18a is not only required in starvation- and senescence-induced autophagy, but also in oxidative stress-triggered autophagy. [[FIGURE]] To determine whether autophagy is required for the response to oxidative stress conditions, growth of the RNAi-AtATG18a lines was compared with wild-type plants under oxidative stress. Seven-day-old seedlings grown on nutrient MS solid medium (Fig. 3A ) were transferred to medium with 10 μm MV (Fig. 3B). MV strongly inhibited growth of both wild-type and RNAi plants (compare with CITATION). However, after 15 d, RNAi-AtATG18a plants were already chlorotic, whereas wild-type seedlings were still green (Fig. 3). In contrast, silencing of an unrelated gene by RNAi had no effect on response to oxidative stress (data not shown). These data imply that autophagy is necessary for plants to survive oxidative stress conditions. [[FIGURE]] To assess whether the RNAi-AtATG18a lines are likely to be under increased oxidative stress, the expression patterns of several ROS scavenging enzymes were compared between wild-type and RNAi-AtATG18a seedlings. RNA was extracted from seedlings after incubation in the presence (Fig. 2A) or absence (Fig. 2B) of MV for 72 h followed by RT-PCR analysis and quantification by densitometry (Fig. 2C). As expected, in wild-type seedlings, transcript abundance increased in the presence of MV for each gene, whereas it remained constant in control samples. In RNAi-AtATG18a seedlings, the transcript level was higher in each case than in wild-type plants, even in the absence of MV, possibly suggesting that the RNAi seedlings are under increased or constitutive stress compared with wild type. In the presence of MV, the mRNA levels for CAT3, APX, and SOD increased still further, demonstrating that the RNAi seedlings are still able to respond to increased ROS concentrations. The CAT1 mRNA level remained constant in the RNAi lines, and CAT2 transcript level decreased at later time points, possibly reflecting different roles or differential regulation of CAT isoforms in response to oxidative stress. One result of oxidative stress is increased protein oxidation. To better understand the role of autophagy in oxidative stress, the level of oxidized proteins was compared between wild-type and RNAi-AtATG18a seedlings after MV treatment. Derivatization with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH) was used, as this assay is well established for use in plant systems (e.g. CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Seven-day-old seedlings were transferred to medium containing 10 μm MV for up to 12 h, followed by isolation of total proteins. After derivatization of the carbonyl group of oxidized proteins with DNPH, immunoblotting was performed using 2,4-dinitrophenol (DNP) antibodies to detect oxidized proteins. The signal on the blot was quantified by densitometry of the entire lane of the gel. As shown in Figure 4 , RNAi plants accumulated approximately 3.5-fold more oxidized proteins compared with wild-type seedlings after MV treatment (compare wild type + MV with RNAi + MV in Fig. 4, A and C; P = 0.0085). Similar results were obtained by quantifying either the entire lane or individual prominent bands (data not shown), with no evidence for selective increases in specific proteins. No signal was seen in parallel control experiments in which the DNP derivatization step was omitted (data not shown). Considering that RNAi-AtATG18a seedlings are defective in autophagy, these data indicate that inhibition of autophagy leads to increased accumulation of oxidized proteins during oxidative stress. [[FIGURE]] We considered two possibilities to explain the increased accumulation of oxidized proteins in RNAi-AtATG18a seedlings during MV treatment: either an increased production of oxidized proteins or a decrease in their degradation. To distinguish between these possibilities, we analyzed the effect of concanamycin A on the level of oxidized proteins after MV treatment. Concanamycin A is a vacuolar H+-ATPase inhibitor, which inhibits vacuolar enzyme activities by increasing the internal vacuolar pH and therefore prevents vacuolar protein degradation (CITATION). When treated with concanamycin A, autophagosomes accumulate in the vacuole in Arabidopsis roots, as they can no longer be degraded (CITATION). Seven-day-old wild-type seedlings were transferred to medium containing 10 μm MV or 1 μm concanamycin A, or both 10 μm MV and 1 μm concanamycin A for up to 12 h, followed by protein isolation and immunoblotting using DNP antibodies. MV and concanamycin A treatment caused a significant increase in accumulation of oxidized proteins compared to MV treatment alone in wild-type seedlings (approximately 3-fold; Fig. 4, A and C), and this accumulation level is similar to that in RNAi-AtATG18a lines when treated with MV. Treatment of RNAi-AtATG18a seedlings with MV and concanamycin A had no effect compared to MV alone (Supplemental Fig. S3), indicating that the RNAi and concanamycin A most likely inhibit the same protein degradation pathway. These data indicate that the increased accumulation of oxidized proteins in RNAi-AtATG18a seedlings during MV treatment is most likely caused by the decrease in their degradation, not by the increased production of oxidized proteins. To further confirm that the increased accumulation of oxidized proteins in RNAi seedlings is caused primarily by reduced degradation of these proteins by autophagy, the rate of degradation of oxidized proteins was compared between wild-type and RNAi plants. Seedlings were treated with 10 μm MV for 2 d, by which time oxidized proteins had accumulated to high levels in both wild-type and RNAi-AtATG18a seedlings. The seedlings were then transferred back to solid medium lacking MV, and the degradation rate of oxidized proteins in wild-type and RNAi plants was compared. Initially, the amount of oxidized protein detected remained constant or increased slightly (Fig. 5 ), most likely due to the continued presence of MV in the seedlings even after transfer back to control medium. As shown in Figure 5, 3 or 4 d after transfer back to control medium, the amount of oxidized proteins in wild-type seedlings had decreased to a low level. In contrast, RNAi-AtATG18a plants retained a significantly higher level of oxidized proteins at this time point after transfer (2-fold increase; P = 0.002 for the 3-d time point). Together, these data suggest that oxidized proteins can be transported to the vacuole for degradation by the autophagy pathway. In this way, cells can eliminate oxidized proteins to increase their survival under severe oxidative stress. [[FIGURE]] To further confirm that during oxidative stress oxidized proteins can be sent to the vacuole for degradation by the autophagy pathway, the cellular localization of oxidized proteins caused by MV treatment was compared between wild-type and RNAi-AtATG18a root cells. Three-day-old wild-type and RNAi-AtATG18a seedlings were transferred to medium containing 1 μm concanamycin A to inhibit degradation in the vacuole, or both 1 μm concanamycin A and 10 μm MV for 12 h. The oxidized proteins were then derivatized in situ with DNP and detected using DNP antibody followed by immunofluorescence confocal microscopy. In the expanded root cells shown, the vacuole occupies most of the cell volume, and the cytoplasm is present as a thin layer adjacent to the plasma membrane. After treatment with 1 μm concanamycin A and 10 μm MV for 12 h, a strong DNP signal was detected inside the vacuole of wild-type root cells (Fig. 6 ). In contrast, this DNP signal was absent from the vacuole of RNAi-AtATG18a root cells and instead seen in the cytoplasm (see Supplemental Fig. S4 for three-dimensional [3D] image). This provides direct evidence that autophagy is responsible for transporting oxidized proteins to the vacuole for degradation under oxidative stress conditions. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) plants were grown on nutrient solid MS medium as described previously (CITATION) under long-day conditions (16 h light) at 22°C. Arabidopsis seeds were surface sterilized in 33% (v/v) bleach and 0.1% (v/v) Triton X-100 solution for 20 min followed by cold treatment for at least 2 d. For MV, H2O2, or concanamycin A treatment, 7-d-old seedlings grown on nutrient solid MS medium were transferred to the same medium containing 10 μm MV, 10 mm H2O2, or 1 μm concanamycin A and incubated for the indicated times. Seedlings were stained with MDC as described (CITATION) and observed using fluorescence microscopy using a 4′,6-diamino-phenylindole-specific filter. For counting of autophagosomes, pictures were taken of equivalent regions of each root for multiple seedlings after MDC staining. The number of autophagosomes visible in each image was counted and the average determined for 10 seedlings per genotype and per treatment. H2O2 was measured in extracts from Arabidopsis seedlings according to CITATION. Leaves were frozen, ground to a powder, and stored at −80°C. Leaf powder (50–100 mg) was extracted with 0.1 mL of 0.2 m HClO4, incubated on ice for 5 min, and then centrifuged at 14,000g for 10 min at 4°C. The supernatant was neutralized with 0.2 m NH4OH, pH 9.5, and was centrifuged again at 3,000g. The extracts were passed through 1- × 1-cm columns of AG 1 × −8 resin (Bio-Rad) and were eluted with 1 mL water. The quantification of H2O2 in the extracts was performed using the Amplex Red Hydrogen Peroxide-Peroxidase Assay kit (Invitrogen-Molecular Probes) following the manufacturer's directions. Fluorescence was measured with a Synergy HT fluorescence plate reader (Bio-Tek) using excitation at 530 nm and fluorescence detection at 590 nm. The concentration of H2O2 in each sample was calculated using a standard curve. Total RNA was extracted and RT-PCR was performed as described previously (CITATION). Gene-specific primers used for PCR are as follows: AtATG18a (At3g62770), 5′-TCGCGTCGACTCCTTCAAATCATTCTTCCATG-3′ and 5′-TCGCTCTAGATTAGAAAACTGAAGGCGGTTT-3′; CAT1 (At1g20630), 5′-CACATGTTTTCATTTCTCTTGATGAT-3′ and 5′-AGCAGACAATAGGAGTTGTAGGG-3′; CAT2 (At4g35090), 5′-AACATGTTTTCATTTCTCTTGATGAT-3′ and 5′-AACAGACAGCAGGCGGAGTTGGA-3′; CAT3 (At1g20620), 5′-GTCGACATGGATCCTTACAAGTATCGTCCTTCAAGC-3′ and 5′-GCGGCCGCCTAGATGCTTGGCCTCACGTTCAGACGGCT-3′; ChlSOD2 (At2g28190), 5′-ATTTCCTCCAAACGTCAAACAT-3′ and 5′- CATCGGCATTGGCATTTATGT-3′; and APX1 (At1g07890), 5′-ACGTTCTCATTCATGACTCTATAT-3′ and 5′-GGAAATCAGCAAAAGAGATGGTA-3′. RT-PCR signals were quantified by densitometry of individual bands using Quantity One software (Bio-Rad) using the volume analysis function, and the relative signals were calculated, normalized to a wild-type control value of one for each gene individually. The results shown are an average of three independent experiments. A DNA fragment encoding GFP-AtATG8e was obtained by digestion of plasmid pJ4GFP-AtATG8e (CITATION) with restriction enzymes SalI and SacI and ligated into the plant T-DNA binary vector pCAMBIA1300 (Cambia GPO). This construct was introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 by electroporation (CITATION). pCAMBIA1300: GFP-AtATG8e was introduced into Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia plants by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation using the floral dipping method (CITATION). Transgenic plants were screened using hygromycin resistance and expression confirmed by immunoblotting using GFP antibody (Invitrogen). Homozygous T2 transformant seeds were used for further studies. For oxidized protein analysis, total proteins were isolated from seedlings after treatment with MV for the indicated times by grinding in cold extraction buffer (0.1 m Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 0.3 m Suc, 1 mm EDTA, 0.1 mm phenylmethylsulphonylfluoride, and 1% [v/v] β-mercaptoethanol) and centrifugation at 1,000g for 10 min. Oxidized proteins were detected using an OxyBlot protein oxidation detection kit (Chemicon International) according to the manufacturer's instructions. DNP signals were quantified by densitometry using Quantity One software (Bio-Rad) using the volume analysis function, and the relative signals were calculated. In Figure 4, signals were normalized to a wild-type 0-h control value of one. Signals were determined both for the entire lane of gel and for individual prominent protein bands, with essentially equivalent results for both methods. The results shown are an average of three independent experiments for quantification of the entire gel lane. In Figure 5, signals were normalized to the wild type + MV signal, which was set as 100%. Unpaired t tests were conducted on the protein oxidation data to determine statistical significance. Significant difference was defined by treatment comparisons with observed P values of less than 0.05 (P < 0.05), allowing for a 95% confidence interval. Three-day-old Arabidopsis seedlings grown on MS solid medium were transferred to the same medium containing 1 μm concanamycin A or 1 μm concanamycin A plus 10 μm MV for 12 to 16 h. Immunofluorescence staining of treated Arabidopsis seedlings was performed according to CITATION with the following modifications: Seedlings were fixed with Carnoy's solution (6 parts absolute ethanol, 1 part glacial acetic acid, 3 parts chloroform) for 15 min followed by successive washes with 50% (v/v) ethanol, 25% (v/v) ethanol and 50 mm PIPES, 5 mm EGTA, and 5 mm MgSO4 (MTSB), then mounted on slides. Prior to addition of block buffer (3% [w/v] bovine serum albumin/MTSB), permeabilized seedlings were treated with 40 μL 1× DNPH (Chemicon International) for 30 min and neutralized with 40 μL neutralization solution (OxyBlot protein oxidation kit, Chemicon International). Immunolabeling was done using anti-DNP (OxyBlot protein oxidation kit, Chemicon International; 1:100) for 15 to 18 h at 4°C followed by Alexa Fluor 594-conjugated goat anti-rabbit secondary antibodies (Molecular Probes; 1:250) for 1 h at room temperature. Samples were washed five times with MTSB after each antibody. Images were collected using a Leica TCS/NT confocal microscope (Leica Microsystems), and 3D reconstruction was performed using MetaMorph (Molecular Devices Corporation) and Adobe Photoshop. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Subcellular localization of GFP-AtATG8e. Supplemental Figure S2. H2O2 measurement in seedlings. Supplemental Figure S3. Concanamycin A has no effect on levels of oxidized proteins in RNAi-AtATG18a plants. Supplemental Figure S4. 3D image of immunofluorescence analysis of the cellular localization of oxidized proteins.
