!~ABS~! Sulfur is an essential macronutrient required for plant growth. To identify key transcription factors regulating the sulfur assimilatory pathway, we screened Arabidopsis thaliana mutants using a fluorescent reporter gene construct consisting of the sulfur limitation-responsive promoter of the SULTR1;2 sulfate transporter and green fluorescent protein as a background indicator for monitoring plant sulfur responses. The isolated mutant, sulfur limitation1 (slim1), was unable to induce SULTR1;2 transcripts under low-sulfur (–S) conditions. Mutations causing the sulfur limitation responseless phenotypes of slim1 were identified in an EIL family transcription factor, ETHYLENE-INSENSITIVE3-LIKE3 (EIL3), whose functional identity with SLIM1 was confirmed by genetic complementation. Sulfate uptake and plant growth on –S were significantly reduced by slim1 mutations but recovered by overexpression of SLIM1. SLIM1 functioned as a central transcriptional regulator, which controlled both the activation of sulfate acquisition and degradation of glucosinolates under –S conditions. Metabolite analysis indicated stable accumulation of glucosinolates in slim1 mutants, even under –S conditions, particularly in the molecular species with methylsulfinylalkyl side chains beneficial to human health. Overexpression of SLIM1 and its rice (Oryza sativa) homologs, but no other EIL genes of Arabidopsis, restored the sulfur limitation responseless phenotypes of slim1 mutants, suggesting uniqueness of the SLIM1/EIL3 subgroup members as sulfur response regulators.
!~RES~! We took a genetic approach to identify the key regulatory proteins controlling the upstream signaling cascades of sulfur metabolism in Arabidopsis. A fluorescent reporter–aided screening was designed to monitor the abundance of SULTR1;2 sulfate transporter in Arabidopsis roots, visualized as an in vivo fluorescence of a jellyfish green fluorescent protein (GFP). SULTR1;2 is a high-affinity sulfate transporter in Arabidopsis, localized in the root hair, epidermis, and cortex of roots, and makes a major contribution to the uptake of sulfate from the environment (CITATION; CITATION). The SULTR1;2 mRNA accumulates under –S conditions; therefore, a fusion gene construct, PSULTR1;2-GFP, consisting of a 2160-bp promoter region of SULTR1;2 sulfate transporter gene and the GFP coding sequence exhibits green fluorescence when plants are inadequately supplied with sulfate (Figure 1 , parental line; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Using this transgenic Arabidopsis as a parental line (Columbia-0 background), ethyl methanesulfonate–mutagenized M2 seeds were generated, and seedlings were screened for the changes in GFP fluorescence on –S culture conditions. The M2 seedlings showing reduced levels of GFP fluorescence were isolated as mutant candidates. Those showing significant reduction of GFP signals were reselected in M3 plants, and F2 populations were generated from the crosses with the parental plants. A family of allelic mutants with cosegregating recessive mutations was chosen for further analysis and named slim1 after their sulfur limitation responseless phenotypes (Figure 1). The slim1-1 and slim1-2 mutants almost completely lacked the fluorescent signals of GFP that should be normally observed in the parental plants on –S media (Figure 1). Commensurate with the abnormality of GFP reporter expression, the induction of SULTR1;2 mRNA under –S was abolished in both slim1-1 and slim1-2 mutants (Figure 1). We cloned the SLIM1 gene by a genetic map-based strategy (Figure 2A ). Single base substitutions were identified in slim1-1 and slim1-2, causing missense mutations, G115D and E131K, respectively, in the coding region of the ETHYLENE-INSENSITIVE3-LIKE3 (EIL3) gene (At1g73730) (Figures 2B and 2C), a putative EIL family transcription factor whose function has not been verified (CITATION). Further analysis identified two additional alleles, slim1-3 (V242M) and slim1-4 (A269V) (Figures 2B and 2C) showing phenotypes identical to slim1-1 and slim1-2. The slim1-3 and slim1-4 mutations were located close to the DNA binding domains BD III (225 to 236) and BD IV (251 to 261) of EIL proteins (CITATION; CITATION). We further confirmed that overexpression of SLIM1 by cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter restores the sulfur limitation responseless phenotypes of slim1-1 and slim1-2 mutants (Figure 3 ). The expression of GFP from the indicator construct (PSULTR1;2-GFP) was recovered in both mutants by overexpression of SLIM1, establishing the function of SLIM1 in –S-responsive regulation of SULTR1;2 (Figure 3). Expression of SULTR1;2 mRNA was also recovered in both mutants by SLIM1 overexpression (data not shown). SLIM1 mRNA was expressed both in roots and shoots; however, it was not modulated by the changes of sulfur conditions (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Tissue-specific expression of SLIM1 was examined in transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing GFP under the control of the SLIM1 promoter (PSLIM1-GFP). GFP signals were predominantly found in the vascular tissues of roots and hypocotyls (see Supplemental Figure 2A online). In roots, GFP was expressed in pericycle and xylem parenchyma cells (see Supplemental Figure 2B online). As expected from its function as a transcription factor, GFP-SLIM1 fusion protein was localized exclusively in nuclei (35S-SLIM1-GFP; see Supplemental Figures 2C and 2D online). Nuclear localization of GFP-SLIM1 was not affected by sulfur availability (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] SLIM1 played significant roles in activation of sulfate uptake and proper growth under –S environment (Figure 4 ). For the sulfate uptake analysis, plants were grown on S15 media containing 15 μM sulfate, and uptake of [35S]sulfate was measured under the same sulfur condition (Figure 4A). The results indicated that high-affinity sulfate uptake activity is reduced ∼60% by slim1-1 and slim1-2 mutations (Figure 4A). By contrast, overexpression of SLIM1 restored these defects in the slim1 mutants (Figure 4A). These results suggested that SLIM1 is required for the –S-responsive induction of the high-affinity sulfate transport system facilitated by SULTR1;2 sulfate transporter in Arabidopsis roots. We further demonstrated the significance of SLIM1 in proper management of plant growth under the –S environment (Figure 4B). Plants were germinated and grown on S0 media with no external addition of sulfate to induce severe –S stress. Both slim1-1 and slim1-2 alleles showed 30% reduction of root growth compared with the parental line (Figures 4B and 4C). The observed growth defects were recovered by overexpression of SLIM1 (Figures 4B and 4C). [[FIGURE]] To characterize downstream genes whose transcripts are affected by slim1 mutation, parental line and slim1 mutants were grown on S15 (15 μM sulfate) or S1500 (1500 μM sulfate) media for 10 d, and their root RNAs were hybridized with Affymetrix ATH-1 GeneChip arrays (array data deposited in www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo under accession no. GSE4455). RNA was prepared from two separate cultures (a and b in Supplemental Table 1 online) to have biological duplicates for each plant line under S15 and S1500 conditions, respectively. Detailed procedures of data analysis are described in Methods. Briefly, after per-chip normalizations, each gene was normalized by that gene's expression level in the control S1500 sample. The –S-responsive genes were selected from the parental line data by Student's t test (P value cutoff: 0.01). The normalized values of S15 samples (S15/S1500 ratios) of –S-responsive genes were compared between the parental line and slim1 mutants to select SLIM1-dependent genes showing statistically significant differences under one-way analysis of variance test with Benjamini and Hochberg multiple testing correction (false discovery rate: 0.05) and Tukey post hoc test. Supplemental Table 1 online represents the list of –S-responsive SLIM1-dependent genes selected under these statistical tests. Figure 5A is a simplified presentation of these genes, visualizing differences of –S responses between the parental line and slim1 mutants. [[FIGURE]] The results indicated that several isoforms of sulfate transporters (SULTR1;1, SULTR1;2, SULTR3;4, and SULTR4;2) were upregulated by sulfur limitation more significantly in the parental line than in both slim1 mutants (Figure 5A; see Supplemental Table 1 online). SULTR1;1, SULTR1;2, and SULTR4;2 play important roles in sulfate acquisition and transport under –S environment (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). A putative thioglucosidase (At2g44460) showing clear –S response and SLIM1 dependency is suggested to be involved in hydrolytic degradation of glucosinolates for catabolic sulfur recycling. Around the pathways of Cys synthesis, an –S-inducible isoform of Ser acetyltransferase (Serat3;1) (CITATION) showed a similar expression profile. In addition, the wild-type response of other –S-upregulated genes with unknown functions was generally abolished in slim1 mutants; the exceptions were MS5 family protein (At1g04770) and putative pectinesterase (At3g10720). The changes of transcript levels of putative thioglucosidase (At2g44460), SULTR1;1, SULTR1;2, and SULTR4;2 were confirmed by quantitative real-time RT-PCR, showing reproducible expression profiles of –S responsiveness and SLIM1 dependencies (Figure 5B). Another remarkable shift of transcriptome by slim1 mutation was observed in glucosinolate synthesis. They were downregulated by sulfur limitation more significantly in the parental line than in the slim1 mutants (Figure 5A; see Supplemental Table 1 online). Methyl(thio)alkylmalate synthases (MAM1 and MAML) and a putative branched-chain amino acid aminotransferase (At3g19710) for Met chain elongation (CITATION; CITATION), cytochrome P450s for indole glucosinolate biosynthesis (CYP79B2, CYP79B3, and CYP83B1) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), and Myb34 (ATR1), a regulator of indole glucosinolate biosynthetic genes (CITATION), showed these patterns. Adenylylsulfate kinase (AKN2), which provides 3′-phosphoadenosine-5′-phosphosulfate for glucosinolate biosynthesis, and a sulfate assimilation enzyme, ATP sulfurylase (APS4), were also found in this category. On real-time RT-PCR quantification, the transcripts of a putative branched-chain amino acid aminotransferase (At3g19710), CYP79B2, and APS4 were lowered by slim1 mutations under S1500 conditions (Figure 5B). By contrast, they were slightly more abundant in the slim1 mutants than in the parental line under S15 conditions (Figure 5B). In addition, cytochrome P450 CYP79F2, which catalyzes aldoxime formation in the pathway of chain-elongated Met-derived glucosinolate biosynthesis (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), was regulated under the same scheme (Figure 5B). A reduction step catalyzed by 5′-adenylylsulfate reductase (APR) is important for sulfur assimilation, and transcripts for the three APR isoforms accumulate under –S conditions (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). This microarray data indicated –S-responsive accumulation of APR2 and APR3 transcripts in the parental line, though they were equally responsive to sulfur limitation in the slim1 mutants (data not shown). The results likely indicate that APR is regulated independent of SLIM1. Metabolite analysis emphasized appreciable contribution of SLIM1-mediated regulation to sulfur assimilation and metabolism. Sulfate, Cys, glutathione (GSH), Met, and O-acetylserine (OAS) were measured in parental line and slim1 mutants grown on S15 (15 μM sulfate) or S1500 (1500 μM sulfate) media (Figure 6 ). The most significant changes were observed in OAS and GSH contents in shoots. Compared with the parental line, the slim1 mutants on S15 media showed overaccumulation of OAS and significant decrease of GSH in shoots (Figure 6). In roots, OAS content was lower in slim1-2 than in the parental line under S15 conditions (Figure 6), but a severer –S condition (S0) induced higher accumulation of OAS in both slim1 mutants (data not shown). Under the same –S condition, slim1 mutations caused a slight decrease and increase of sulfate pools in shoots and roots, respectively. In addition, Cys content was lowered but Met content was increased in shoots by slim1 mutations under S15 conditions. [[FIGURE]] The effects of SLIM1-mediated regulation on secondary sulfur metabolism were evaluated by measuring the glucosinolate contents (Figure 7 ). As indicated by the mass chromatograms, methylsulfinylalkyl glucosinolate contents were significantly decreased by sulfur limitation in the parental line (Figure 7A). By contrast, substantial amounts of these Met-derived glucosinolates were accumulated in slim1 mutants even under S15 conditions (Figure 7A). These patterns were generally the same in roots for the molecular species with longer alkyl side chains (Figure 7B). Methylthioalkyl glucosinolate contents were modulated exactly the same as in the case of methylsulfinylalkyl glucosinolates; a significant decrease by sulfur limitation was observed in both shoots and roots of the parental line, but these changes were moderated in slim1-1 and slim1-2 mutants (Figure 7B, MTX). Indole glucosinolate contents were also regulated by SLIM1 in roots as in the case of Met-derived species; however, in shoots, they decreased by sulfur limitation in both slim1 mutants and the parental line (Figure 7B). [[FIGURE]] In the Arabidopsis genome, six genes are annotated to encode the EIL family proteins (EIN3 and EIL1 to EIL5) (Figures 2B and 8A ; CITATION). EIN3 is a transcription factor controlling the expression of ethylene-responsive genes, and EIL1 and EIL2 are the closest functional homologs of EIN3 (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). On the contrary, the functions of EIL3 (SLIM1), EIL4, and EIL5 have not yet been verified (CITATION). To assess whether SLIM1 is the only form specialized for sulfur response, other EIL family members from Arabidopsis, EIN3, EIL2, EIL4, and EIL5, were overexpressed in slim1-1 and slim1-2 mutants. The results clearly indicated that SLIM1 is the only form able to restore the –S-responsive expression of GFP from the PSULTR1;2-GFP indicator construct in slim1 backgrounds (Figure 8B). None of the other Arabidopsis EIL proteins showed the same function (Figure 8B). [[FIGURE]] The alignment and phylogenetic analysis of EIL family proteins indicated that SLIM1 proteins are ubiquitously found in the plant kingdom (Figure 8A). Arabidopsis SLIM1, two rice (Oryza sativa) homologs, Os SLIM1;1 and Os SLIM1;2, and proteins from petunia (Petunia hybrida) and Fagus sylvatica formed a unique branch that can be distinguished from other group members (Figure 8A). Os SLIM1;1 and Os SLIM1;2 were overexpressed in slim1 mutants and were demonstrated to have capabilities to restore the expression of GFP from the PSULTR1;2-GFP indicator construct in Arabidopsis in response to sulfur limitation (Figure 8B). These results strongly suggested that proteins in the SLIM1/EIL3 subgroup are functionally distinct from other EIL family members mediating ethylene responses and may have unique functions in regulating sulfur responses in various plant species.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana plants were grown at 22°C under 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycles. Plants were grown on mineral nutrient media (CITATION) containing 1% sucrose. For preparation of agar medium, agar was washed twice with 1 liter of deionized water and vacuum filtrated. S0 agar medium was prepared by complete replacement of MgSO4 to MgCl2. S1500, S300, S100, S30, and S15 agar media were prepared by adding MgSO4 to the S0 medium. Mg concentration was adjusted to 1500 μM by adding MgCl2. The homozygous progeny of PSULTR1;2-GFP transgenic plants (Columbia-0 background) (CITATION) was used as a parental line. Approximately 15,000 seeds were mutagenized with 0.3% ethyl methanesulfonate for 16 h and directly sowed on soil. M2 seeds were harvested separately as 36 pools. Approximately 2000 M2 seedlings from each pool (72,000 in total) were screened for alteration of GFP fluorescence on S0 agar medium. GFP was detected in 11-d-old seedlings using the FluorImager 595 image analyzer (Molecular Dynamics). The M2 seedlings showing reduced GFP fluorescence were selected as mutant candidates. M3 seeds were collected from 209 independent mutant candidates. Eighty lines with reduced GFP fluorescence were reselected by comparing fluorescence on S0 and S1500 agar media and backcrossed with the parental PSULTR1;2-GFP plant. F2 progenies of the backcrossed lines were assayed following the same condition. Finally, 60 lines were selected as sulfur limitation responseless mutants. A family of allelic mutant lines was named slim1 and analyzed in this study. The slim1-1 and slim1-2 plants were backcrossed three times with the parental line and used for phenotypic analyses. F2 plants that derive from the crosses between slim1 mutants and Landsberg erecta were used for map-based cloning. F2 seedlings showing kanamycin resistance and significant reduction in GFP fluorescence were selected on S0 agar medium containing 10 μM kanamycin sulfate. Chromosome-containing slim1 was determined using the genetic markers nga68, nga111, nga361, nga162, nga6, nga8, and nga139. slim1 was mapped between nga111 and ATPASE markers and narrowed down to the region between the BAC clones T9L24 and F1M20 using single nucleotide polymorphism markers generated by Inplanta Innovations (http://www.inplanta.jp/eng/service/mapping.html). We generated additional molecular markers summarized in Supplemental Table 4 online. Using these markers, slim1 was mapped to the position between At1g73660 and At1g73850. Mutations in slim1-1 and slim1-2 were identified on At1g73730 by sequencing 21 genes between At1g73660 and At1g73850. The SLIM1 overexpression construct (35S-SLIM1) was created by cloning the SLIM1 coding region under CaMV 35S promoter in pSMAH621 vector (CITATION). Constructs for overexpression of other EIL family genes and Oryza sativa SLIM1 genes were prepared in pH35GS (CITATION), a binary vector containing a Gateway cassette (Invitrogen) in the sense orientation under CaMV 35S promoter in pSMAH621. GFP-SLIM1 fusion construct (35S-GFP-SLIM1) was prepared by cloning a translational fusion gene of sGFP (CITATION) and SLIM1 under CaMV 35S promoter in pBI121 (Clontech). SLIM1 promoter-GFP (PSLIM1-GFP) construct was prepared by cloning a 2087-bp 5′-promoter region of SLIM1 in pBI101-GFP vector (CITATION) that has replacement of β-glucuronidase gene in pBI101 (Clontech) with sGFP. All DNA fragments cloned in transformation vectors were amplified by PCR using high-fidelity KOD-Plus DNA polymerase (Toyobo). Primer sequences used for the PCR are summarized in Supplemental Table 5 online. Binary plasmids were transferred to Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 (pMP90) (CITATION) and transformed to Arabidopsis plants according to the floral dip method (CITATION). Transgenic plants were selected with 25 mg L−1 hygromycin B (for pSMAH621 and pH35GS constructs) or 50 mg L−1 kanamycin sulfate (for pBI constructs), and T2 or T3 progenies were used for the analysis. BLASTP programs at The Arabidopsis Information Resources (http://www.arabidopsis.org/Blast/), RAP (http://rapdb.lab.nig.ac.jp/blast/index.html), TIGR (http://tigrblast.tigr.org/euk-blast/index.cgi?project=osa1), and the National Center for Biotechnology Information (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/BLAST/) were used for database searches of SLIM1 homologs. Protein sequences were aligned using ClustalW (CITATION), and the phylogenetic tree was created by the neighbor-joining method (CITATION) using the programs at the DDBJ (http://www.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/search/clustalw-j.html). Bootstrap analysis was conducted with 1000 replicates. The sequence alignment (see Supplemental Figure 4 online) was edited using Jalview (http://www.jalview.org/) (CITATION). The unrooted phylogenetic tree (Figure 8A) was drawn using TreeView (http://taxonomy.zoology.gla.ac.uk/rod/treeview.html) (CITATION). Expression of GFP in intact plants was visualized using the FluorImager 595 image analyzer under 488-nm excitation (Molecular Dynamics). Relative intensities of GFP signals were quantified using ImageQuant (Molecular Dynamics). The laser scanning confocal microscopy system FluoView 500 (Olympus) was used for microscopy analysis of SLIM1 promoter-GFP plants and nuclear localization of GFP-SLIM1 fusion protein. Plants were vertically grown for 10 d on S15 media (15 μM sulfate). The roots were submerged in nutrient solution containing 15 μM [35S] sodium sulfate (Amersham Biosciences) and incubated for 30 min. Washing and measurement were performed as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). Parental line, slim1-1, and slim1-2 mutants were grown for 10 d under S15 (15 μM sulfate) or S1500 (1500 μM sulfate) conditions. Duplicate RNA samples were prepared from roots, and hybridization of ATH-1 array (Affymetrix) was performed according to the manufacturer's protocol. Microarray Suite 5.0 (Affymetrix) and GeneSpring 7.2 (Silicon Genetics) programs were used for the data analysis. All data of GeneChip experiments have been deposited in the Gene Expression Omnibus database under accession number GSE4455 (www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo). Each chip was normalized to the 50th percentile of the measurements taken from that chip (per chip normalization). Per gene normalization was performed using the measurements of the S1500 samples of each plant line as controls (e.g., signals of each gene on the arrays of the parental line [Parental-S1500-a, Parental-S1500-b, Parental-S15-a, and Parental-S15-b] were divided by the median of that gene's measurements in the S1500 samples [Parental-S1500-a and Parental-S1500-b]). The array data of slim1 mutants were normalized similarly. Array elements showing present or marginal calls at least in one of the four parental line chip experiments (16,731 genes) were selected for further gene classification. The –S-responsive genes were first selected from the parental line chip data. Student's t test (P value cutoff: 0.01) was performed between the S1500 and S15 samples of the parental line, and 469 genes were obtained as –S-responsive genes. SLIM1-dependent genes were further extracted by a multiple comparison of parental line, slim1-1, and slim1-2 mutants. The normalized values of S15 samples (S15/S1500 ratios) of –S-responsive genes were subjected to a one-way analysis of variance test applying Benjamini and Hochberg multiple testing correction (CITATION) with a false discovery rate of 0.05 and Tukey post hoc test. As a result, 79 genes were listed as –S-responsive SLIM1-dependent genes that show statistically significant differences between the parental line and two mutant alleles (Figure 5; see Supplemental Table 1 online). Values in Supplemental Table 1 online are the normalized data and corrected P values calculated according to this procedure. RNA preparation and reverse transcription were performed as reported previously (CITATION). Real-time PCR was performed using the SYBR Green Perfect Real Time kit (Takara) and GeneAmp 5700 sequence detection system (Applied Biosystems). The mRNA contents were calculated using ubiquitin as an internal standard. Gene-specific primers are described in Supplemental Table 6 online. Plant tissues were harvested and frozen in liquid nitrogen before extraction. Frozen tissues (100 mg FW) were homogenized at 4°C in 5× volume (500 μL) of extraction solvent (80% methanol: 20% milliQ water [Millipore]) using a mixer mill MM300 (Retsch). After 3 min of homogenization, cell debris was removed by centrifugation to have cleared extract. Three hundred microliters of extract was vacuum-evaporated to dryness and resolved in 100 μL of milliQ water, followed by ultrafiltration through NANOSEP MF GHP 0.45 μm (PALL Life Sciences). This filtrate was immediately used for the analysis. Glucosinolates were analyzed by liquid chromatography–mass spectrometry modifying the methods described by CITATION. Ten microliters of sample was applied to the Acquity UPLC system (Waters) and separated on SunFire C18 column (150 × 2.1-mm diameter; Waters) under a linear gradient elution program with solvent A (0.1% trifluoroacetic acid in water) and solvent B (0.1% trifluoroacetic acid in methanol): 0 to 2% solvent B (8 min), 2 to 30% solvent B (12 min), 30 to 100% solvent B (18 min), 100% solvent B (7 min), and 100% solvent A (5 min). Elution was operated at 0.2 mL/min and 30°C. Metabolites were detected by photodiode array scanning of UV absorption (210 to 400 nm), and [M-H]− ions for specific glucosinolates were detected in a Q-Tof Premier time-of-flight mass analyzer (Micromass). The electrospray probe was operated at 2.8 kV. The source and desolvation temperatures were 100 and 120°C, respectively. The identities of 4-methylsulfinylbutyl and 4-methylthiobutyl glucosinolates with the standard compounds were confirmed by elution time, UV absorption, m/z value, and mass fragmentation patterns. Other methylsulfinylalkyl and methylthioalkyl gluosinolates, and indole glucosinolates were identified by their UV absorption, m/z values, and mass fragmentation patterns. The glucosinolate contents were calculated by comparing the levels of [M-H]− ions of each compound with that of sinigrin as a standard. Cys and GSH contents were determined by monobromobimane (Molecular Probes) labeling of thiols after reduction of the extracts by DTT. The labeled products were separated by HPLC using a Symmetry C18 column (150 × 4.6-mm diameter; Waters) and detected with a Waters 474 scanning fluorescence detector, monitoring fluorescence of thiol-bimane adducts at 482 nm under excitation at 390 nm. Met and OAS were analyzed by capillary electrophoresis–mass spectrometry (Agilent Technologies) (CITATION). Sulfate content was determined by a capillary electrophoresis-photodiode array detection system according to the manufacturer's protocol (Agilent Technologies). Microarray data from this article can be found in the Gene Expression Omnibus database (www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo) under accession number GSE4455. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Table 1. List of Genes Regulated by Sulfur and SLIM1. Supplemental Table 2. Existence of the Putative SLIM1/EIL3 Binding Site AYGWAYCT in the Upstream Regions. Supplemental Table 3. AYGWAYCT in the Upstream Regions of –S-Upregulated SLIM1-Dependent Genes. Supplemental Table 4. Molecular Markers Generated for Identification of slim1. Supplemental Table 5. Primers for Construction of Plant Transformation Vectors. Supplemental Table 6. Gene-Specific Primers for Quantitative Real-Time RT-PCR. Supplemental Figure 1. SLIM1 mRNA Content Is Not Modulated by Sulfur. Supplemental Figure 2. Tissue and Cellular Distribution of SLIM1. Supplemental Figure 3. ACC Response of –S-Regulated SLIM1-Dependent Genes. Supplemental Figure 4. Multiple Sequence Alignment of EIL Family Proteins.
