!~ABS~! The sub-cellular location of enzymes of fatty acid β-oxidation in plants is controversial. In the current debate the role and location of particular thiolases in fatty acid degradation, fatty acid synthesis and isoleucine degradation are important. The aim of this research was to determine the sub-cellular location and hence provide information about possible functions of all the putative 3-ketoacyl-CoA thiolases (KAT) and acetoacetyl-CoA thiolases (ACAT) in Arabidopsis. Arabidopsis has three genes predicted to encode KATs, one of which encodes two polypeptides that differ at the N-terminal end. Expression in Arabidopsis cells of cDNAs encoding each of these KATs fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP) at their C-termini showed that three are targeted to peroxisomes while the fourth is apparently cytosolic. The four KATs are also predicted to have mitochondrial targeting sequences, but purified mitochondria were unable to import any of the proteins in vitro. Arabidopsis also has two genes encoding a total of five different putative ACATs. One isoform is targeted to peroxisomes as a fusion with GFP, while the others display no targeting in vivo as GFP fusions, or import into isolated mitochondria. Analysis of gene co-expression clusters in Arabidopsis suggests a role for peroxisomal KAT2 in β-oxidation, while KAT5 co-expresses with genes of the flavonoid biosynthesis pathway and cytosolic ACAT2 clearly co-expresses with genes of the cytosolic mevalonate biosynthesis pathway. We conclude that KATs and ACATs are present in the cytosol and peroxisome, but are not found in mitochondria. The implications for fatty acid β-oxidation and for isoleucine degradation in mitochondria are discussed.
!~RES~! Searches of the Arabidopsis genome identify five loci with sequence similarity to genes encoding known thiolase proteins (Germain et al. CITATION). Comparison of predicted amino acid sequences shows that they fall into two classes. Three loci encode the Type I class of enzyme, KAT 1, 2 and 5, typically involved in acetyl-CoA formation in fatty acid β-oxidation by removal of a 2-carbon chain from a 3-ketoacyl-CoA. The other two genes encode the type II class of enzyme, ACAT 1 and 2, typically involved in acetoacetyl-CoA formation from two molecules of acetyl-CoA (Fig. 1A, Supplementary Fig. 1A). The type I genes have previously been annotated as KAT1, KAT2 and KAT5 (3-ketoacyl-CoA thiolase) (Germain et al. CITATION), based on the chromosome on which they are found (At1g04710, At2g33150 and At5g48880, respectively). All three are closely related to known peroxisomal located type I thiolases in human, mouse and yeast and this cluster also contains representatives from the fungus Neurospora crassa and the monocot rice (Oryza sativa). The matrix and membrane-bound type I mitochondrial thiolases involved in fatty acid degradation in human, mouse and Drosophila cluster separately and do not contain members from the completed genome sequences of fungi, Arabidopsis or rice. [[FIGURE]]  The two Arabidopsis type II thiolases (here referred to as ACAT1 and ACAT2, At5g47720 and At5g48230, respectively) cluster with the known cytosolic type II thiolases from yeast and the cytosolic and mitochondrial type II thiolases from human, mouse and Drosophila. The monocot rice also has two type II thiolases that cluster in this set and N. crassa contains a single type II gene that clusters with the yeast cytosolic type II protein. The sequence divergence of mitochondrial type I thiolases in mammals from the peroxisomal type I KATs in plants, fungi and animals makes the presence of KAT2 in Arabidopsis mitochondria appear unlikely based on phylogenetic evidence if thiolase location is conserved. However, the sequence analysis does not define the location of the type II ACAT proteins in Arabidopsis and leaves open the possibility of a mitochondrial location of at least one of these proteins, especially given the presence of multiple type II thiolases in both plants and mammals. Analysis of EST sequences and tiling array data shows that KAT1 and KAT2 loci each encode single polypeptide sequences (Fig. 1B) (Mockler et al. CITATION; Yamada et al. CITATION). In contrast, KAT5 encodes two proteins that differ at the N-terminus due to alternative RNA splicing that generates either 13 (KAT5.1) or 14 (KAT5.2) exons (Fig. 1B). The N-terminal sequences of proteins encoded by KAT1, KAT2 and KAT5.2 include putative PTS2-type sequences, while the protein encoded by KAT5.1 does not (Fig. 1B). Interestingly, proteins encoded by KAT1, KAT2, KAT5.1 and KAT5.2 proteins are predicted to be targeted to mitochondria by at least two of three different programs (Table 1). Analysis of EST sequences and tiling array data shows that ACAT1 and ACAT2 loci also encode three and two proteins respectively (Fig. 1B). Differential RNA splicing results in the protein encoded by ACAT1.1 lacking ten amino acids at the C-terminus relative to the protein encoded by ACAT1.2. The protein ACAT1.3 has 20 different amino acid residues at the N-terminus relative to ACAT1.1. None of the proteins has predicted organelle-targeting information (Table 1). Differential RNA splicing also accounts for the N-terminal 6 amino acid residues of the protein encoded by ACAT2.1 being replaced by 11 different amino acid residues in the case of the protein encoded by ACAT2.2 (Fig. 1B). Neither protein has predicted organelle-targeting information (Table 1). [[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] To localize thiolases in vivo, GFP and RFP fusions were employed. GFP and RFP have been used extensively to study protein targeting to mitochondria, peroxisomes and chloroplasts (Heazlewood et al. CITATION). To demonstrate specific mitochondrial and peroxisomal targeting in vivo and our ability to distinguish the two, an AOX–GFP construct (Lee and Whelan CITATION) and an RFP–PTS1 construct (Pracharoenwattana et al. CITATION), were employed. The two gene constructs were co-delivered into Arabidopsis suspension culture cells using a biolistic gene gun (Thirkettle-Watts et al. CITATION). After 48 h individual cells expressing both GFP and RFP fluorescence were imaged. The results show that GFP and RFP were targeted to discrete organelles consistent with specific targeting to mitochondria and peroxisomes respectively (Fig. 2). [[FIGURE]]  To examine thiolase targeting we made translational fusions with GFP at the C-terminus since peroxisomal (PTS2) and mitochondrial targeting sequences are both N-terminal. Thiolase cDNAs encoding all nine proteins were linked to the GFP coding region and cloned downstream of the CaMV 35S promoter. They were each delivered into Arabidopsis suspension culture cells together with the RFP–PTS1 construct. After 48 h individual cells expressing both GFP and RFP fluorescence were imaged, and the images merged. The results show that KAT1, KAT2 and KAT5.2 and ACAT 1.3 were targeted to peroxisomes, as indicated by coincidence of GFP and RFP images (Fig. 2). In contrast, ACAT1.1, ACAT1.2, ACAT2.1, ACAT2.2 and KAT5.1 show diffuse fluorescence throughout the cell indicating that no specific targeting to any organelle has occurred, suggesting a cytosolic localization. With peroxisomal targeting of KAT1, KAT2, KAT5.2 and ACAT 1.3, although it was apparent that the patterns of GFP and RFP were essentially identical, the higher intensity of the former means that when merged the green fluorescence was dominant in some cells. None of the thiolases were apparently targeted to mitochondria in vivo. However, it is possible that uptake was prevented by the GFP fusion, or that mitochondria normally take up less thiolase than peroxisomes, such that GFP fluorescence from mitochondria did not reach an intensity to be detected. To test these possibilities we examined the ability of isolated mitochondria to take up all nine thiolases. Each protein was synthesized in a rabbit reticulocyte lysate translation system in the presence of radiolabelled methionine, and then tested for import into mitochondria isolated from Arabidopsis cell cultures. As a control the import and processing of AOX and Rubisco SSU were examined, the former as a positive control for import and the latter as a control to demonstrate the specificity of import into isolated mitochondria (Chew et al. CITATION; Chew and Whelan CITATION). In this case the AOX precursor protein (36 kDa) was imported and cleaved to a mature protein (32 kDa) as previously demonstrated (Fig. 3, lanes 1 and 2) (Whelan et al. CITATION). Addition of protease resulted in the 32-kDa mature form being resistant to protease digestion indicating uptake by mitochondria. This resistance was abolished by the addition of valinomycin that dissipates the inner membrane potential (Fig. 3, lanes 4 and 5) (Tanudji et al. CITATION). The phosphate translocator from maize was used as an additional control, after uptake into mitochondria and rupture of the outer membrane protease digestion results in a small cleaved protected fragment of 33 kDa, indicating that the added protease has access to inside the outer membrane (Bathgate et al. CITATION; Murcha et al. CITATION, CITATION; Winning et al. CITATION). In contrast to the mitochondrial controls, Rubisco SSU was not protected from protease digestion indicating it was not imported into mitochondria (Fig. 3). [[FIGURE]]  When the nine thiolase proteins were tested for mitochondrial uptake two distinct patterns were observed, KAT1, ACAT 1.1, ACAT 1.2, ACAT 1.3, KAT5.1 and KAT5.2 did not yield any protease protected products upon incubation with mitochondria and thus were deemed not to be imported (Fig. 3). KAT2, ACAT2.1 and ACAT2.2 yielded resistant products upon incubation with mitochondria. Although KAT2 was not proteolytically cleaved by mitochondria, a protease resistant product with a lower mol mass was obtained when mitochondria were treated with Proteinase K (Fig. 3, lanes 1–3). Notably this was also generated in the presence of valinomycin (Fig. 3, lanes 4–5). However, upon rupture of the outer membrane this product was absent (Fig. 3, lanes 6–9). In the case of ACAT2.1 and ACAT2.2 a similar pattern was observed except that the protected protein had the same molecular mass as the protein added to the import assay (Fig. 3, lanes 1–5). Again with rupture of the outer membrane no protease protection was observed (Fig. 3, lanes 6–9). Although the protease protected fragments produced upon incubation of KAT2, ACAT2.1 and ACAT2.2 may suggest uptake by mitochondria, their presence when valinomycin was added to the import assay and their sensitivity when the outer mitochondrial membrane is ruptured suggests that they may represent protease resistant products in the presence of intact mitochondria. The protease susceptibility of KAT2, ACAT2.1 and ACAT2.2 was tested by the ability of added protease to digest the radiolabelled precursor protein. Incubation of KAT2.1, ACAT2.1 and ACAT2.2 with proteinase K alone indicated that they were resistant to protease digestion; in contrast AOX was completely digested (Fig. 4). Thus it was concluded that there was no uptake of any radiolabelled thiolase proteins into isolated mitochondria, in agreement with the GFP targeting (Fig. 2). [[FIGURE]]  The probable functions of these type I and type II thiolases in their determined subcellular locations was examined by analysis of co-expression of these genes in microarray data from Arabidopsis (Fig. 5). We used the Expression Angler co-expression correlation tool from the Botany Array Resource (Toufighi et al. CITATION) to find the most co-expressed genes based on microarray hybridization data on Arabidopsis 22K genechips; the top 25 co-expressed genes are shown in each case (Fig. 5A, Supplementary Table 1). This analysis shows that KAT2 co-expresses (Correlation >0.65–0.79) more highly with a range of peroxisomal fatty acid degradation components in the peroxisome than with any other nuclear genes in Arabidopsis. These included the fatty acid multifunction protein MFP2 (At3g06860), citrate synthase (At2g42790), acyl-CoA oxidases (At5g65110, At3g51840) and enoyl-CoA hydratase (At4g16210) (Fig. 5A). Curiously, Expression Angler showed KAT5 is not co-expressed with β-oxidation enzymes, but instead with a series of flavonoid biosynthesis enzymes (Correlation >0.6–0.71), including flavanone 3-hydroxylase (At3g51240) 4-courmarate CoA ligase (At1g65060), chalcone synthase (At5g13930), chalcone isomerase (At5g05270). Notably this pathway requires short acyl-CoAs for biosynthesis. [[FIGURE]]  The gene encoding a type II enzyme ACAT2 (At5g48230) was found by Expression Angler to be co-expressed with a range of genes, but notably, hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA synthase (At4g11820) and mevalonate diphosphate decarboxylase (At2g38700, At3g54250) were highly co-expressed (Correlation >0.80) (Fig. 5, Supplementary Table 1). This is consistent with the role of type II genes in the cytosolic mevalonate pathway leading to isoprene-containing compounds such as sterols and terpenoids. The isoleucine catabolism pathway involves the branched chain amino acid dehydrogenase complex (At5g09300, At3g13450, At3g06850), isovaleryl-CoA dehydrogenase (At3g45300), enoyl-CoA hydratase (At4g31810) in mitochondria, and then 3-hydroxy-2-methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenases and the fatty acid multifunction proteins (At4g29010, At3g06860, At3g15290), in addition to a thiolase, but these fore-mentioned genes do not appear to be co-expressed with any of the thiolase genes (data not shown). To confirm the co-expression groups in Fig. 5A, we used Genevestigator (Zimmermann et al. CITATION) to cluster KAT2, KAT5 and ACAT2 and their cohort of highlighted co-expressed genes across a series of microarray data based on tissue specific expression (Fig. 5B). This bootstrapped cluster tree showed three separate groupings of genes, confirming the Expression Angler analysis of distinct expression patterns of these three thiolases, correlating with distinct roles in metabolism. Note this type of expression analysis cannot distinguish differential roles for isoforms of proteins resulting from alternative splicing as the probe sets used to determine expression do not distinguish between splice forms.
!~MM~! The predicted protein sequence encoded by At2g33150 previously shown to be a thiolase was used to define other thiolase encoding genes in Arabidopsis (Germain et al. CITATION), and the sequences from other species as previously published (Pereto et al. CITATION). A similarity tree was made using ClustalW multiple sequence alignment and neighbour joining (Thompson et al. CITATION, CITATION). The gene structures were obtained from The Arabidopsis Information Resource annotation version 6 (TAIR6) and three individual cDNAs were amplified for all possible cDNAs. The cDNAs produced from the genes were defined using the Arabidopsis genome tiling array (Mockler et al. CITATION; Yamada et al. CITATION). Targeting predictions of the encoded proteins were carried out using a variety of prediction programs: TargetP (Emanuelsson et al. CITATION), Mitoprot (Claros and Vincens CITATION), Subloc (Hua and Sun CITATION), Ipsort (Bannai et al. CITATION), Predotar (Small et al. CITATION), Mitpred (Kumar et al. CITATION) and PeroxP (Emanuelsson et al. CITATION). Percentage identity and similarity was calculated using MatGAP v2.02 (Campanella et al. CITATION). The coding sequences of the predicted thiolase proteins were cloned in frame with the coding region of GFP in pGEM 3Zf(+) containing the 35S CaMV promoter (Chew et al. CITATION). The alternative oxidase (AOX) coding region fused to GFP (Lee and Whelan CITATION), and the red fluorescent protein (RFP) fused to a type 1 peroxisomal SRL targeting signal from pumpkin (Pracharoenwattana et al. CITATION), were used as mitochondrial and peroxisomal controls respectively. The constructs were used to transform Arabidopsis suspension culture cells by biolistic transformation as previously outlined (Thirkettle-Watts et al. CITATION). Fluorescence patterns were obtained 48 h after transformation by visualization under an Olympus BX61 fluorescence microscope and imaged using the CellR imaging software. In vitro protein import assays into mitochondria isolated from Arabidopsis suspension cell cultures were carried out as described in Lister et al. (CITATION). In vitro mitochondrial uptake assays were performed by adding precursor protein to 100 μg of isolated mitochondria in 200 μl in the presence of respiratory substrate (succinate 5 mM) and ATP (1 mM) and ADP (200 μM) in import buffer (0.3 M sucrose, 50 mM KCl, 10 mM MOPS pH 7.2, 5 mM KH2PO4, 1% (w/v) BSA, 1 mM MgCl2, 1 mM methionine and 5 mM DTT). Reactions were incubated at 24°C for 20 min then divided into two equal aliquots and placed on ice. To one aliquot Proteinase K was added to a final concentration of 40 μg/ml and incubated for 15 min on ice, followed by the addition of PMSF to 2 mM to terminate protease digestion. The mitochondria were pelleted, washed twice in ice-cold import buffer. The final pellet was resuspended in SDS-PAGE sample buffer and proteins separated in 12% (w/v) polyacrylamide gels, then dried. Radiolabelled proteins were visualized by exposing to a BAS TR2040 imaging plate for 24 h and reading on a BAS 2500 Bio imaging analyser (Fuji, Tokyo). Outer membrane ruptured mitochondria (Mit-OM) were prepared after the import assay to test for the intraorganelle location of imported protein. Rupture of the outer membrane allowed access of added protease to intermembrane space components or inner membrane proteins exposed to the intermembrane space. Mit-OM were prepared by resuspending 100 μg of mitochondrial protein in 10 ml SEH buffer (250 mM sucrose, 1 mM EDTA, 10 mM Hepes pH 7.4) and then adding 155 μl of 20 mM Hepes pH 7.4 and incubating on ice for 20 min. To restore osmolarity 25 μl of 2 M sucrose and 10 μl of 3 M KCl was added and mixed, re-pelleted and washed in import buffer. Valinomycin was added to a final concentration of 1 μM where indicated prior to the addition of the precursor protein to mitochondria and commencement of the import assay. AOX was used as a positive control and the small subunit of Ribulose 1, 5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco SSU) as a negative control. As some precursor proteins displayed protease insensitivity even in the presence of valinomycin the sensitivity of the precursor proteins alone to added protease was tested. Sensitivity of the in vitro synthesized radiolabelled proteins was tested by adding proteinase K to the synthesized protein alone in the absence of mitochondria to ensure that the added protease could digest the protein. Expression correlation for genes encoding KATs and ACATs was performed using the Expression Angler program on the Botany Array Resource (Toufighi et al. CITATION). The Genevestigator Arabidopsis microarray database was used to analyse the response of the genes of interest in this study in a variety of tissue types (Zimmermann et al. CITATION). The meta-analyser tool was the function utilized, ATH1 22k array wild type only arrays were chosen and the genes of interest were selected. The data was visualized using a linear scale from a total of 1860 array experiments. TMeV (TIGR Multiple Experiment Viewer) programme was used to cluster the genes and stresses, and Euclidean distance and complete linkage were chosen for the hierarchal clustering (Eisen et al. CITATION; Saeed et al. CITATION).
