!~ABS~! Plant morphogenesis is profoundly influenced by light (a phenomenon known as photomorphogenesis). For example, light inhibits seedling hypocotyl growth via activation of phytochromes and additional photoreceptors. Subsequently, information is transmitted through photoreceptor-linked signal transduction pathways and used (via previously unknown mechanisms) to control hypocotyl growth. Here we show that light inhibition of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) hypocotyl growth is in part dependent on the DELLAs (a family of nuclear growth-restraining proteins that mediate the effect of the phytohormone gibberellin [GA] on growth). We show that light inhibition of growth is reduced in DELLA-deficient mutant hypocotyls. We also show that light activation of phytochromes promotes the accumulation of DELLAs. A green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged DELLA (GFP-RGA) accumulates in elongating cells of light-grown, but not dark-grown, transgenic wild-type hypocotyls. Furthermore, transfer of seedlings from light to dark (or vice versa) results in rapid changes in hypocotyl GFP-RGA accumulation, changes that are paralleled by rapid alterations in the abundance in hypocotyls of transcripts encoding enzymes of GA metabolism. These observations suggest that light-dependent changes in hypocotyl GFP-RGA accumulation are a consequence of light-dependent changes in bioactive GA level. Finally, we show that GFP accumulation and quantitative modulation of hypocotyl growth is proportionate with light energy dose (the product of exposure duration and fluence rate). Hence, DELLAs inhibit hypocotyl growth during the light phase of the day-night cycle via a mechanism that is quantitatively responsive to natural light variability. We conclude that DELLAs are a major component of the adaptively significant mechanism via which light regulates plant growth during photomorphogenesis.
!~RES~! We further investigated the relationship between GA and light in the regulation of hypocotyl growth in experiments using the Arabidopsis ga1-3 mutant (a mutant that is substantially GA deficient; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Whereas wild-type seedlings grown in continuous light had shorter hypocotyls than dark-grown controls, the differences between light- and dark-grown ga1-3 mutant hypocotyl lengths were considerably smaller (Fig. 1 ). Furthermore, ga1-3 hypocotyls grown in continuous light were of similar length to wild-type controls (Fig. 1), whereas dark-grown ga1-3 hypocotyls were markedly shorter than dark-grown wild-type hypocotyls (Fig. 1; see also CITATION; CITATION). Thus, GA plays a particularly prominent role in the regulation of hypocotyl growth in the dark. [[FIGURE]] GA promotes many aspects of the growth of plants by targeting the growth-restraining DELLAs for destruction in the cellular proteasome, thus overcoming DELLA restraint of growth (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To determine whether GA promotes hypocotyl growth by this same mechanism, we studied multiple mutant lines that are substantially lacking in DELLA function. The Arabidopsis genome encodes five DELLAs (GAI, RGA, RGL1, RGL2, and RGL3; CITATION). The quadruple-DELLA mutant line lacks GAI, RGA, RGL1, and RGL2 (but retains RGL3), whereas the ga1-3 quadruple-DELLA line lacks the same set of DELLAs on the ga1-3 background (CITATION; CITATION). We found that continuous light-grown quadruple-DELLA and ga1-3 quadruple-DELLA mutant hypocotyls grew to approximately twice the length of wild type and ga1-3 controls (Fig. 1). Furthermore, substantial lack of DELLA function (as in the ga1-3 quadruple-DELLA line) completely suppressed the short-hypocotyl phenotype of dark-grown ga1-3 seedlings (Fig. 1; see also CITATION). Thus, DELLA function restrains hypocotyl growth in both light and dark. In nature, plants are exposed to the alternating periods of light and darkness that correspond to the day-night cycle. We next found that DELLAs inhibit hypocotyl growth to a degree proportionate to daylength (Fig. 2 ). Whereas wild-type and quadruple-DELLA mutant hypocotyl length was identical in darkness (wild-type/quadruple-DELLA hypocotyl length ratio approximating 1), the difference in hypocotyl length between these two lines increases progressively with increase in daylength (Fig. 2). Conversely, whereas the lengths of ga1-3 and wild-type hypocotyls were very different in darkness (ga1-3/wild-type hypocotyl length ratio approximating 0.2), the difference in hypocotyl length between these two lines decreases progressively as daylength increases (Fig. 2). Thus, in wild-type plants, increases in daylength cause increases in both hypocotyl growth inhibition and the relative contribution that DELLA restraint makes to that inhibition. Conversely, in GA-deficient plants, increases in daylength progressively reduce the growth-inhibitory effects of GA deficiency on hypocotyl growth, suggesting that GA becomes less critical for hypocotyl growth as the light period increases. [[FIGURE]] We next showed that DELLA-dependent light-induced hypocotyl growth inhibition is associated with DELLA accumulation. pRGA:GFP-RGA seedlings express a GFP-RGA fusion protein that is detectable in root cell nuclei and destroyed rapidly in response to GA treatment (CITATION; CITATION). Because light inhibits hypocotyl growth via a DELLA-dependent mechanism, we determined the effect of light on GFP-RGA in nuclei of elongating cells of the hypocotyl. We found that nuclear fluorescence attributable to GFP-RGA was readily detectable in the elongation zone of hypocotyls of light-grown pRGA:GFP-RGA seedlings, but not in hypocotyls of dark-grown controls (Fig. 3A ). These observations suggest that RGA accumulates in nuclei of elongation zone cells in light-grown (but not in dark-grown) wild-type hypocotyls, thus contributing to light-mediated inhibition of hypocotyl growth. In contrast, GFP-RGA was clearly detectable in both light-grown and dark-grown ga1-3 pRGA:GFP-RGA hypocotyls (Fig. 3A). The consistency of these observations with the previous hypocotyl growth data (Fig. 1) suggests that wild-type and ga1-3 hypocotyls are of similar length when grown in continuous light because they sustain a similar level of DELLA accumulation. Conversely, dark-grown wild-type and ga1-3 hypocotyls are of different lengths largely because DELLAs accumulate in dark-grown ga1-3 hypocotyls, but not in wild-type controls. [[FIGURE]] In subsequent experiments, we determined the kinetics of change in a detectable level of nuclear GFP-RGA fluorescence following transfer of plants from light to dark (and following the reciprocal transfer; Fig. 3A). We found that GFP-RGA fluorescence in hypocotyl nuclei had largely disappeared within 1 h of transfer of pRGA:GFP-RGA seedlings from light to dark, and that GFP-RGA remained undetectable during subsequent hours of darkness (Fig. 3A). Conversely, hypocotyls of dark-grown seedlings began to exhibit detectable nuclear GFP-RGA fluorescence within 2 h of onset of light exposure, with subsequent increase in nuclear GFP-RGA level that plateaued at 4 h and beyond (Fig. 3A). Thus, the rate at which GFP-RGA is destroyed in darkness appears to be faster than the rate at which it accumulates in the light. These dynamic light-dependent changes in GFP-RGA level are not seen in ga1-3 pRGA:GFP-RGA hypocotyls (Fig. 3A), presumably because they are dependent on the modulation of GA level (CITATION). In addition, we found that these effects of light on GFP-RGA accumulation were a consequence of light itself and were not circadian clock dependent (data not shown). We confirmed that the increase in hypocotyl cell GFP-RGA fluorescence that occurred following transfer of seedlings from dark to light (Fig. 3A) was genuinely associated with an increase in GFP-RGA protein level via immunodetection of GFP-RGA (using an anti-GFP antibody; Fig. 3B). This experiment revealed a progressive increase in the level of immunologically detectable GFP-RGA that was proportionate to the duration of light exposure (Fig. 3B). Reduced bioactive GA level (as in ga1-3) causes an increase in DELLA accumulation and consequent growth inhibition (e.g. CITATION; CITATION). We next investigated the possibility that light-induced accumulation of DELLAs in seedling hypocotyls might be the result of light-induced effects on GA metabolism, thus causing a reduction in the levels of bioactive GA. Indeed, several previous reports indicate that light affects GA metabolism via modulation of the levels of gene transcripts encoding GA biosynthesis enzymes (e.g. CITATION; CITATION). Bioactive GA levels are increased by increasing the level of transcripts encoding GA 20-oxidase (GA20ox) and GA 3-oxidase (GA3ox), enzymes that catalyze successive steps in the synthesis of bioactive GA (CITATION; CITATION). Conversely, bioactive GA levels are reduced by increasing the level of transcripts encoding GA 2-oxidase (GA2ox), an enzyme that deactivates bioactive GA (CITATION). Previous experiments have shown that light (phytochrome-mediated R/FR light) regulates GA metabolism genes during Arabidopsis seed germination (CITATION). We therefore determined the effects of light on the accumulation of selected GA metabolism gene transcripts in Arabidopsis seedling hypocotyls. We found that hypocotyls grown in the dark accumulate relatively high levels of GA20ox1 (encoded by the GA5 gene) and low levels of GA2ox transcripts (Fig. 4 ). Conversely, when grown in continuous light, hypocotyls contain relatively high amounts of GA2ox transcripts (particularly with respect to the GA2ox1 transcript) and accumulate relatively low levels of GA5. These observations indicate that the biosynthesis and accumulation of bioactive GA is promoted in dark-grown seedling hypocotyls (due to a combination of high GA20ox and low GA2ox activity), whereas deactivation of bioactive GA is promoted in dark-grown seedling hypocotyls (due to the combination of low GA20ox and high GA2ox activity). Thus, in dark-grown hypocotyls, the relatively high level of bioactive GA targets DELLAs for destruction (Fig. 3A) and promotes hypocotyl growth (Fig. 1). Conversely, in light-grown hypocotyls, the relatively low level of bioactive GA favors DELLA accumulation, thus promoting repression of hypocotyl growth. [[FIGURE]] We also examined the dynamics of GA metabolism gene transcript levels in seedlings transferred from dark to light (or vice versa). Movement of seedlings from dark to light resulted, within 1 h, in pronounced accumulation of GA2ox1 transcripts (and, to a lesser extent, GA2ox2 and GA2ox3 transcripts) and a corresponding decrease in GA5 and GA4 (which encodes for the GA3ox1 enzyme) transcript levels in seedling hypocotyls. This sudden change in gene transcript levels presumably has two consequences. First, the increase in GA2ox transcript levels results in rapid deactivation of the bioactive GA that was produced during the preceding dark period. Second, the decrease in GA5 and GA4 transcript levels reduces the production of further active GA. Previous work has shown that increased DELLA activity (e.g. as seen in the GA-deficient ga1-3 mutant or in the constitutively DELLA-restraining gai mutant) results in increased levels of GA4 and GA5 transcripts due to perturbation of a DELLA-dependent negative feedback loop (CITATION; CITATION). It is possible that the slight increase in GA4 and GA5 transcript levels observed between 2 and 4 h of light exposure (Fig. 4) is due to such a mechanism. However, the light/dark-mediated sudden changes in levels of GA metabolism gene transcripts described above are consistent with the hypothesis that light-dependent changes in bioactive GA level contribute to the DELLA-dependent effect of light on hypocotyl growth. In addition to the above-described changes in GA metabolism, the light-mediated GFP-RGA accumulation demonstrated in Figure 3 might also have been the consequence of light-dependent modulation of the levels of transcripts encoding components of the GA-signaling pathway. As outlined in the introduction, GA is perceived by AtGID1 receptors (CITATION), thus enhancing the affinity between the DELLAs and a specific SCF E3 ubiquitin-ligase complex, involving the F-box proteins SLEEPY1 (SLY1) and SLEEPY2 (SLY2; CITATION; CITATION) and promoting the eventual destruction of DELLAs in the 26S proteasome. We therefore analyzed the accumulation of transcripts encoding RGA, SLY1, SLY2, AtGID1a, and AtGID1b in dark- and light-grown seedlings. As shown in Figure 4, exposure to light or dark had no detectable effect on the levels to which these transcripts accumulated. Thus, the accumulation of the GFP-RGA signal in light-treated seedlings (Fig. 3) is unlikely to be due to light-induced enhancement of GFP-RGA transcript levels or to a decrease in SLY1, SLY2, AtGID1a, or AtGID1b transcript levels. We next began to characterize those regions of the light spectrum that contribute to DELLA-dependent light-mediated inhibition of hypocotyl growth, first assaying the FR and R light regions of the spectrum that are particularly associated with the phytochrome family of photoreceptors (CITATION). As shown previously for continuous white light (Fig. 1), we found that quadruple-DELLA mutant hypocotyls were longer than wild-type hypocotyls in both FR and R (Figs. 5A and 6A ). Furthermore, the short-hypocotyl phenotype exhibited by ga1-3 in R was suppressed in the ga1-3 quadruple-DELLA line (Fig. 6A). Thus, there is a DELLA-dependent component to the mechanism via which both R and FR inhibit hypocotyl growth. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The phyA photoreceptor is the predominant detector of FR during seedling hypocotyl growth. Accordingly, phyA-1 loss-of-function mutant hypocotyls are longer than wild-type hypocotyls in FR (CITATION; CITATION; Fig. 5A). To further characterize the role of DELLAs in phyA-mediated hypocotyl growth inhibition, we studied the GA response mutant gai (CITATION). The gai mutant allele encodes a mutant gai form of GAI that is relatively resistant to the effects of GA (CITATION; CITATION) and thus constitutively represses growth. The length of FR-grown phyA-1 gai double-mutant hypocotyls was intermediate between that of phyA-1 and gai (Fig. 5A). Thus, the constitutive growth repression conferred by gai reduces FR-grown phyA-1 mutant hypocotyl growth, further indicating that FR-activation of phyA inhibits hypocotyl growth via a mechanism that contains a DELLA-dependent component. The fact that FR-grown gai and phyA-1 gai hypocotyls are not of identical length indicates the existence of an additional DELLA-independent mechanism via which activated phyA inhibits hypocotyl growth. In further experiments, we determined the effect of the phyA-mediated FR signal on the accumulation of GFP-RGA (Fig. 5B). GFP-RGA accumulated to higher levels in FR-treated pRGA:GFP-RGA seedlings than in FR-treated phyA-1 pRGA:GFP-RGA seedlings, thus indicating that FR modulation of GFP-RGA levels is at least partially phyA dependent. Whereas phyA inhibits hypocotyl growth in FR, phyB plays a predominant role in inhibition of hypocotyl growth in R and white light (CITATION; CITATION). We next investigated the role of phyB in the DELLA-dependent light-mediated inhibition of seedling hypocotyl growth, using the phyB-1 mutant (which lacks phyB function; CITATION). In these experiments, we compared the kinetics of GFP-RGA accumulation following the transfer of pRGA:GFP-RGA and phyB-1 pRGA:GFP-RGA seedlings from the dark to white light (as shown in Fig. 3). Whereas immunodetectable GFP-RGA levels did not obviously increase in phyB-1 pRGA:GFP-RGA hypocotyls in the period between 1 and 2 h following onset of light exposure, pRGA:GFP-RGA seedlings displayed a large increase in GFP-RGA level during this period (Fig. 6B). Thus, lack of phyB delays light-induced accumulation of GFP-RGA. Taken together, the above results indicate that an activated phytochrome (both phyA and phyB) contributes to the light-promoted accumulation of DELLAs. In turn, DELLA accumulation promotes light-mediated hypocotyl growth inhibition. The natural light environment varies with respect to photoperiod duration and fluence rate, the total light dose that plants receive being the product of these two variables. We next investigated the effect of variation in fluence rate on light-mediated DELLA-dependent hypocotyl growth inhibition by comparing the growth of wild-type and quadruple-DELLA mutant seedling hypocotyls in different fluence rates of continuous light. At low fluence rate (6 μmol s−1 m−2), we found that wild-type hypocotyls were a little shorter than quadruple-DELLA mutant hypocotyls (wild type/quadruple-DELLA hypocotyl length ratio of approximately 0.75; Fig. 7A ). As fluence rate increased, wild-type hypocotyls became progressively shorter than quadruple-DELLA mutant hypocotyls, such that at high fluence rate (75 μmol s−1 m−2) wild-type hypocotyls were considerably shorter than quadruple-DELLA hypocotyls (wild type/quadruple-DELLA hypocotyl length ratio of approximately 0.3; Fig. 7A). Thus, the DELLA-dependent component of light-mediated hypocotyl growth inhibition becomes increasingly prominent with increased fluence rate. [[FIGURE]] We next investigated the combined effect of variation in fluence rate and photoperiod duration on hypocotyl growth (Fig. 7B) and found that the wild type/quadruple-DELLA hypocotyl length ratio decreases proportionately with an increase in light energy dose (the product of photoperiod duration and fluence rate). For example, the wild type/quadruple-DELLA hypocotyl length ratio was approximately the same when seedlings were exposed to 80 μmol s−1 m−2 for an 8-h photoperiod or 40 μmol s−1 m−2 for a 16-h photoperiod, different combinations of fluence rate and exposure duration that result in the same energy dose (Fig. 7B). In contrast, when the photoperiod was maintained (16 h), but the fluence rate increased 2-fold (40–80 μmol s−1 m−2; Fig. 7B), the wild type/quadruple-DELLA hypocotyl length ratio decreased 2-fold (Fig. 7B). Thus, the degree to which DELLAs contribute to hypocotyl growth inhibition is proportionate to the light energy dose. In accord with this conclusion, we found that accumulation of immunodetectable GFP-RGA was also proportionate to light dose (Fig. 7C). For example, the degree of GFP-RGA accumulation remained the same when the photoperiod was increased 2-fold and fluence rate halved (compare 80 μmol s−1 m−2 per 8-h photoperiod with 40 μmol s−1 m−2 per 16-h photoperiod; Fig. 7C). Conversely, maintenance of photoperiod with increase in fluence rate (compare 40 μmol s−1 m−2 per 16-h photoperiod with 80 μmol s−1 m−2 per 16-h photoperiod; Fig. 7C) resulted in a clearly detectable increase in immunodetectable GFP-RGA. Taken together, the observations in Figure 7 indicate that DELLAs accumulate in quantitative proportion to the light energy to which seedlings are exposed and that DELLAs therefore contribute to light-mediated inhibition of hypocotyl growth in a light dose-dependent fashion.
!~MM~! All experiments used the Landsberg erecta laboratory strain of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) as genetic background. The ga1-3, gai, quadruple-DELLA (gai-t6 rga-t2 rgl1-1 rgl2-1), ga1-3 quadruple-DELLA, pRGA:GFP-RGA, phyA-1, and phyB-1 lines were as described previously (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The phyA-1 gai, phyA-1 pRGA:GFP-RGA, phyB-1 pRGA:GFP-RGA, and ga1-3 pRGA:GFP-RGA lines were isolated from F3 progeny of the appropriate crosses. All seeds were surface sterilized and placed on germination medium (GM) plates (CITATION) at 4°C for 4 d to synchronize germination. For experiments involving ga1-3, all lines were GA treated (10 μm GA3) for 3 d at 4°C, then washed three times with distilled water before sterilization. Subsequently, plates were placed in vertical orientation in controlled environment chambers (22°C) for 2 d in darkness before transfer to white or R light at 75 μmol s−1 m−2 (or as indicated). After 5 d, plates were scanned and hypocotyl length was measured using Image J software (public domain; http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij) or SigmaScan Pro 5 software (Systat Software). FR growth experiments were performed as previously described (CITATION). For each set of experiments, at least 30 seedlings were measured. Fluorescence due to GFP-RGA in the nuclei of cells of the elongation zone of seedling hypocotyls (at a point roughly one-fourth the length of hypocotyls below the cotyledons) was determined as follows. pRGA:GFP-RGA-containing lines were grown on GM plates for 2 d in darkness and subsequently either maintained in the dark or transferred to white light for 5 d. Seedlings were then exposed to dark or light for the time as indicated before observation of hypocotyls by confocal microscopy (CITATION). Total RNA was obtained from hypocotyls of 7-d-old seedlings grown on GM in either continuous white light (at 75 μmol s−1 m−2) or darkness. Seedlings were then transferred to dark or white light for the time as indicated. Total RNA was extracted using TRIzol reagent (Gibco-BRL). Generation of complementary DNA, PCR amplification (18 cycles), and blot analyses were as described previously (CITATION). The primer pairs used for PCR amplification were as previously described (CITATION) or as follows: GA5, 5′-cgcaagcagtttcaccggac-3′ and 5′-gagctgcttgcaccgggcgg-3′; GA4, 5′-catcacctcaactactgcga-3′ and 5′-tcacctgtaccgaagctggt-3′; GA2ox1, 5′-ccgaggaacacacttagcaag-3′ and 5′-ggcttcaacaattcgaaagg-3′; GA2ox2, 5′-gagtgactcgtgcctgagac-3′ and 5′-ccttgtatgagagtagtcat-3′; GA2ox3, 5′-tggtagaggaagagctaaag-3′ and 5′-ctaagcttggtgactatagg-3′; SLY1, 5′-gcgcagtactaccgactctg-3′ and 5′-cgagaagatgagtttcactaag-3′; SLY2, 5′-gtcgtcggagaaacgtgtag-3′ and 5′-cgttgtctgaaccggaaccg-3′; AtGID1a (At3g05120), 5′-gtttggtgggaatgagagaacg-3′ and 5′-ctaaacgcctcactgttcttcc-3′; AtGID1b (At3g63010), 5′-catccagcatgtaatccctttgg-3′ and 5′-cacttgtggaaactgtacacaacc-3′. pRGA:GFP-RGA seedlings were grown on GM in the presence of white light (fluence rate and photoperiod as indicated) for 4 d. phyB-1 pRGA:GFP-RGA seeds were germinated on GM plates in the dark for 4 d, then exposed to light of 75 μmol s−1 m−2 for the time indicated. The hypocotyls were then harvested and frozen in liquid nitrogen. phyA-1 pRGA:GFP-RGA (and control) seeds were germinated on GM plates for 2 d in light then transferred to FR for 5 d (CITATION). Whole seedlings were frozen in liquid nitrogen. Total proteins were extracted with buffer (250 mm Tris-Hcl, pH 6.8; 4% SDS; 20% glycerol; 0.2 m dithiothreitol), with subsequent western-blot analysis as previously described (CITATION; CITATION).
