!~ABS~! During cell division, the mitotic spindle partitions chromosomes into daughter nuclei. In higher plants, the molecular mechanisms governing spindle assembly and function remain largely unexplored. Here, live cell imaging of mitosis in Arabidopsis thaliana plants lacking a kinesin-14 (ATK5) reveals defects during early spindle formation. Beginning during prophase and lasting until late prometaphase, spindles of atk5-1 plants become abnormally elongated, are frequently bent, and have splayed poles by prometaphase. The period of spindle elongation during prophase and prometaphase is prolonged in atk5-1 cells. Time-lapse imaging of yellow fluorescent protein:ATK5 reveals colocalization with perinuclear microtubules before nuclear envelope breakdown, after which it congresses inward from the poles to the midzone, where it becomes progressively enriched at regions of overlap between antiparallel microtubules. In vitro microtubule motility assays demonstrate that in the presence of ATK5, two microtubules encountering one another at an angle can interact and coalign, forming a linear bundle. These data indicate that ATK5 participates in the search and capture of antiparallel interpolar microtubules, where it aids in generating force to coalign microtubules, thereby affecting spindle length, width, and integrity.
!~RES~! Previous studies using tubulin immunofluorescence on atk5-1 cells revealed laterally broadened mitotic spindles during metaphase and anaphase (CITATION). The midzone accumulation of YFP:ATK5 was in accordance with broadening at the spindle midzone, although it was unclear how the spindle poles also became splayed. To understand how ATK5 contributes to spindle pole integrity, we stably transformed wild-type and atk5-1 plants with a chimeric gene construct harboring a fusion between green fluorescent protein (GFP) and Arabidopsis β-Tubulin6 (TUB6) and used plants with detectable levels of fluorescence in dividing cells of the root tip for high-spatiotemporal-resolution imaging of spindle formation and function. All transgenic plants exhibited normal morphologies and growth parameters, and the structure and function of MT arrays were not noticeably affected over a range of transgene expression levels. Figure 1 shows the progression through mitosis in a representative cell from wild-type root tips (see Supplemental Movie 1 online), which supports documented observations. During late G2/early prophase in typical wild-type cells, a broad preprophase band (PPB) of MTs forms beneath the cortex encircling the nucleus and progressively narrows as the cell approaches the onset of mitosis (CITATION; CITATION). Concurrent with PPB narrowing, MTs appear in the vicinity of the nuclear envelope and subsequently become distributed into two poles on opposite sides of the nucleus to form the prophase spindle, the axis of which is perpendicular to the plane of the PPB (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). MTs emanating from these poles are oriented tangentially to the nuclear surface and extend along the surface of the nucleus to the equatorial region, where they overlap with MTs from the opposite pole, or they extend laterally and interact with the PPB (CITATION; CITATION). Soon after pole formation, the prophase spindle begins elongating in a direction parallel to its long axis (Figures 1B to 1E). This elongation continues through nuclear envelope breakdown (NEB), with the spindle achieving maximum length during prometaphase, after which MTs congress inward to form the metaphase spindle (Figures 1F to 1H). After anaphase (Figure 1I) is completed, MTs congress back to the equatorial region to give rise to the phragmoplast (Figures 1J to 1O), which deposits cell plate material as it expands outward. [[FIGURE]] Figure 2 shows the progression through mitosis in a representative cell from atk5-1 root tips (see Supplemental Movie 2 online). Beginning during prophase spindle elongation and lasting until the end of prometaphase, spindles of atk5-1 cells become abnormally elongated with splayed spindle poles and often display a bent morphology (Figures 2A to 2I). Throughout prophase spindle elongation, the mean pole-to-pole spindle length is significantly greater in atk5-1 spindles compared with the corresponding stage in wild-type spindles (Figures 2A to 2F). This difference becomes more pronounced as cells progress into prometaphase (Figures 2F to 2I); however, by metaphase, mutant spindles have shortened to lengths similar to wild-type spindles (Figures 2J to 2M). [[FIGURE]] Mean atk5-1 spindle length during late prophase (just before NEB) is 9.8 ± 0.3 μm (n = 32) versus 8.4 ± 0.3 μm in wild-type cells (n = 31; P = 4.0 × 10−9 by Student's t test). During prometaphase (i.e., after NEB but before the establishment of a clear metaphase plate), mean spindle length increases to 11.0 ± 0.1 μm (n = 37) in atk5-1 cells versus 9.3 ± 0.3 μm in wild-type cells (n = 32; P = 1.5 × 10−11 by Student's t test). During metaphase and anaphase, atk5-1 spindle lengths are not significantly different from those of the wild type. In agreement with our previous results using tubulin immunofluorescence, metaphase and anaphase spindles in atk5-1 plants are significantly wider at the midzone and poles (Figures 2M to 2O). Here, we observed that this broadening manifested first as a splaying of the poles during prometaphase, then later at the midzone during metaphase. At prometaphase, atk5-1 spindle poles are broader than those of the wild type, whereas the width measured at the spindle midzone is not significantly different at this stage. The mean spindle width, measured at the poles, was found to be 2.8 ± 0.1 μm (n = 37) for atk5-1 and 2.0 ± 0.2 μm for the wild type (n = 32; P = 2.1 × 10−6 by Student's t test), whereas the mean midzone width was 4.5 ± 0.1 μm for atk5-1 and 4.6 ± 0.1 μm for the wild type. During prometaphase and metaphase, spindles of atk5-1 also exhibit less structural integrity than those of the wild type. Wild-type spindles maintain an ordered appearance, with little noticeable movement of the well-aligned kinetochore fibers, whereas atk5-1 spindles appear much more disorganized, with individual kinetochore fibers displaying a greater degree of autonomy and movement during metaphase (Figures 2G to 2M; see Supplemental Movies 1 and 2 online). This is most evident at the broadened poles of atk5-1 spindles, which appear highly disorganized and unstable. Overall, atk5-1 spindles appear deficient in lateral interactions between neighboring kinetochore bundles, resulting in broader and less compact spindle structure compared with wild-type spindles. In addition to elongated prophase/prometaphase spindles, the duration of this stage is significantly extended in atk5-1 (Table 1 ). Measuring the time from the start of prophase spindle elongation until the maximum length is reached during prometaphase, spindles from atk5-1 cells elongate for an average of 9.9 ± 2.9 min versus 5.8 ± 1.9 min in wild-type cells. A slight increase in the duration between prometaphase and anaphase is also observed (Table 1). As shown in Figure 3 , the rate of spindle elongation appeared normal in atk5-1 cells (0.7 ± 0.2 μm/min), suggesting that this increased duration of prophase/prometaphase is not attributable to slowed separation of poles but instead is the result of an extended period of elongation. To test whether this increased duration was caused by a premature initiation or delayed termination of spindle elongation, the PPB was used as a marker for mitotic status, because its width decreases in a timely and predictable manner as the spindle develops (CITATION; CITATION). To determine whether prophase spindle elongation began earlier in atk5-1 cells, PPB widths were measured at the start of prophase spindle elongation. PPB widths are significantly greater at this stage in atk5-1 compared with the wild type (2.3 ± 0.3 μm for atk5-1 [n = 42] and 1.9 ± 0.4 μm for the wild type [n = 45]; P = 0.0002 by Student's t test), suggesting that elongation starts early in atk5-1 cells. Additionally, maximum prometaphase spindle lengths were seen to coincide with PPB disappearance in both atk5-1 and the wild type, further indicating that spindle elongation ended at the normal time and did not extend further. Lastly, in atk5-1 cells, spindle elongation was seen to begin coincident with the establishment of prophase spindle bipolarity, whereas an accumulation of MTs at the poles was evident before spindle elongation in wild-type cells. Anaphase duration and spindle elongation rates are unaffected in atk5-1 spindles. Kinetics of Mitotic Spindle Development [[FIGURE]] Because live imaging of mitosis in atk5-1 cells revealed defects in prophase/prometaphase spindle formation, we sought to explore the dynamic changes of ATK5 localization in dividing cells specifically at this stage to better understand the site(s) of ATK5 force generation. Therefore, we used Arabidopsis plants stably expressing a YFP:ATK5 fusion protein. Previous work showed that this fusion protein tracks MT plus ends during interphase, exhibits minus end motility in vitro, and localizes to mitotic spindle midzones in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY-2 cells (CITATION). All lines analyzed expressed low levels of transgene (as indicated by weak fluorescence signal and low signal:noise ratio) and did not affect the morphology or behavior of MT arrays (see Supplemental Table 1 online). The YFP:ATK5 chimeric protein can function in vivo, as homozygous atk5-1 plants expressing YFP:ATK5 show a significant decrease in spindle lengths compared with untransformed mutant plants (4.4 μm compared with 5.2 μm in mutants; P = 0.000001 by Student's t test). Figure 4 shows frames from a time series depicting the localization of YFP:ATK5 in a mitotic cell from a wild-type Arabidopsis root tip. During prophase, YFP:ATK5 localizes to MTs of the PPB and prophase spindle (Figures 4A to 4D). As the prophase spindle elongates and progresses to prometaphase, YFP:ATK5 localizes to MTs of the fusiform spindle and becomes progressively enriched on MT bundles overlapping the spindle midzone while simultaneously becoming depleted at the poles (Figures 4E to 4I). By metaphase, the spindle poles have broadened and YFP:ATK5 is concentrated predominantly in the spindle midzone (Figures 4J to 4L). This steady shift in YFP:ATK5 accumulation from poles to the midzone during spindle formation provides an explanation of the gradual broadening of poles seen in Arabidopsis spindles as they approach metaphase. These data show localization of ATK5 to early prometaphase spindle midzones, presumably before a substantial number of kinetochore fibers have formed, suggesting that ATK5 force generation during prometaphase occurs at regions of overlap between antiparallel interpolar MTs. [[FIGURE]] To test the hypothesis that YFP:ATK5 localizes to interpolar MTs during the prophase/prometaphase transition, we analyzed YFP:ATK5 dynamics in a tobacco BY-2 cell line harboring an MBD:Ds Red fusion protein, which is used to visualize MTs (CITATION). BY-2 cells were chosen because of their large spindles and substantial midzones, making them well suited for studies requiring high spatiotemporal resolution. Before NEB, a fusiform prophase spindle encapsulates the nucleus and contains numerous MT connections to the narrow PPB. Distinct from the situation observed in Arabidopsis cells, spindles of BY-2 cells do not undergo significant prophase/prometaphase spindle elongation. Instead, at NEB/prometaphase, the MTs congress inward from the poles to the midzone, where they are organized into a barrel-shaped metaphase spindle. Figure 5 shows frames from a time-lapse series of a BY-2 cell expressing YFP:ATK5 and MBD:Ds Red during the transition from prophase to prometaphase (see Supplemental Movie 3 online). Fluorescence intensity profiles to the right of each time point were derived from a line drawn along the pole-to-pole axis of each merged image. Dual imaging reveals that YFP:ATK5 initially colocalizes with all spindle MTs during prophase (Figure 5, 0 min). As the nuclear envelope breaks down and MTs congress to the equator (Figure 5, 2.5 min), YFP:ATK5 appears on thick MT bundles that span the midzone, where it subsequently becomes progressively enriched relative to MTs throughout the sequence (Figure 5, 5 to 7.5 min). Coincident with this midzone accumulation of fluorescence, a proportionate depletion of fluorescence occurs at the poles while the MT signal remains predominantly polar. [[FIGURE]] The midzone-spanning MT bundles appear stable, as judged by the ability to observe individual bundles for several successive frames (see Supplemental Movie 3 online), often exhibiting pronounced lateral movement within the spindle. These bundles are most likely interpolar MT bundles, because they cross the midzone as a continuous entity rather than becoming interrupted by a kinetochore and because they do not exhibit the characteristic fir tree morphology of plant kinetochore bundles (CITATION; CITATION). With respect to the pattern of accumulation of YFP:ATK5 in the midzone, examination of Supplemental Movie 3 online gives the impression that YFP:ATK5 fluorescence moves on MT bundles from its initial location at the poles to the midzone during prometaphase (although the high density of MTs in this cell made this difficult to document in a static figure). Figure 6 shows a more favorable cell illustrating this inward movement. The more sparsely populated midzone during early prometaphase in this cell exposed the movement of individual MT bundles more readily. [[FIGURE]] Figure 6A shows frames from a time-lapse series (15-s intervals between frames) of the transition from prophase to prometaphase in a BY-2 cell expressing YFP:ATK5 and MBD:Ds Red (see Supplemental Movie 4 online). Again, YFP:ATK5 initially colocalized with all spindle MTs during prophase (Figure 6A, first frame) and became progressively enriched in the midzone, relative to MTs throughout early prometaphase. Significantly, we noticed that when two bundles from opposite poles encountered each other and coaligned, YFP:ATK5 became enriched at the regions of overlap (asterisks in Figure 6A). In this sequence, two of these capture events occur: the first, at 75 s, establishes an interpolar MT bundle; the second, at 175 s, reveals the capture and subsequent incorporation of another MT into this same bundle. A kymograph of this time-lapse series taken along the long axis of the spindle (indicated by a dotted line in the first frame) clearly illustrates the relationship between MTs and YFP:ATK5 fluorescence from prophase to prometaphase (Figure 6B). Notably, the YFP:ATK5 signal moves from pole to midzone during early prometaphase. These data suggest that ATK5 moves from the poles to the midzone on early nonkinetochore MTs and becomes enriched at regions of overlap between antiparallel-oriented MTs as interpolar MT connections are established. The observation that ATK5 localized to regions of overlap between antiparallel interpolar MT bundles in the midzone led us to hypothesize that ATK5 mediates lateral MT–MT interactions. To test this hypothesis, ATK5 was expressed as a glutathione S-transferase (GST) fusion protein in bacteria as described (CITATION), and GST:ATK5-containing cleared bacterial lysates were used for in vitro studies. Consistent with observations of several other kinesin-14 family members, significant bundling of rhodamine-labeled MTs was seen to occur in the presence of GST:ATK5 and ATP (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). This bundling was not observed with supernatants expressing GST alone (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). To observe the formation of these bundles, a modified MT gliding assay was used in which MTs were mixed with GST:ATK5 to allow association with MTs in solution before observation on glass slides. When the solution of GST:ATK5 and MTs was injected into flow cells, gliding of single MTs as well as linear MT bundles along the GST:ATK5-coated surface was observed. Over time, the proportion of MTs residing within bundles increased, as did bundle size. The formation of linear bundles is shown in Figure 7 , wherein single MTs interact and subsequently coalign. Figure 7A shows two MTs in antiparallel orientation (inferred from the direction of MT gliding), whereas Figure 7B shows two parallel MTs. In both cases, MTs glided along the ATK5-coated cover slip, and upon encounter, interacted to form a linear bundle. Notably, even when MTs approached one another along different angles of trajectory, upon encounter, subsequent motility became oriented to a common vector, resulting in linear coalignment. The net result is a loss of angle between two MTs as they are aligned along a common axis. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana plant growth, cell culture maintenance, and Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated stable transformations were performed as described previously (CITATION). Plasmid containing GFP:TUB6 was a gift from T. Hashimoto (Nara Institute of Science and Technology) and was stably transformed into wild-type and atk5-1 plants. For live observation of plants expressing GFP:TUB6, single-well chamber slides (Sigma-Aldrich) supplemented with a 3-mm layer of growth medium were used. Seeds were pushed through the medium with a sterile toothpick until they reached the cover slip at the bottom of the chamber. Chambers were then placed at an angle, allowing for the observation of roots as they grew along the agar–cover slip interface. Seedlings were observed for 3 to 7 d after germination. Images were collected using a Plan-Neofluar 40× (numerical aperture 1.3) oil-immersion objective (Zeiss). Wide-field microscopy was conducted using a shutter-equipped Zeiss Axiovert microscope, and images were captured with a Coolsnap HQ CCD camera (Roper Industries) controlled by ESEE software (Inovision). To distinguish between fluorophores, the following filter sets were used: GFP (460- to 500-nm excitation, 510- to 560-nm emission), YFP (490- to 510-nm excitation, 520- to 550-nm emission), and Ds Red (530- to 560-nm excitation, 575- to 645-nm emission). Intervals used during time-lapse imaging ranged from 15 s to 1 min and are indicated in the figures. Typical exposure times were 1 to 2 s. Image analyses were performed using ImageJ software (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/). Confocal imaging was performed with a 40× Plan-Apochromatic water-immersion objective mounted on a Zeiss LSM 510 microscope, using a 488-nm argon laser. GFP fluorescence was observed using a 488-nm dichroic filter and a 505- to 545-nm emission filter. Typical scan times were 4 s, using a line averaging of two. Scan intervals were variable and are indicated in the figure legends. Cleared bacterial lysates from BL21 (DE3) cells (Novagen) expressing GST:ATK5 were used. MT gliding assays were done as described previously (CITATION), with the modification that the MT solution was mixed 1:10 with GST:ATK5 lysates immediately before viewing. The Arabidopsis Genome Initiative locus identifier for ATK5 is At4g05190. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Table 1. Behavior and Morphology of Mitotic Spindles Are Unaffected in Plants Expressing YFP:ATK5. Supplemental Figure 1. Bundle Formation by GST:ATK5. Supplemental Movie 1. Mitosis in the Root Tip of a Wild-Type Plant Expressing GFP:TUB6. Supplemental Movie 2. Mitosis in the Root Tip of an atk5-1 Plant Expressing GFP:TUB6. Supplemental Movie 3. YFP:ATK5 Is Enriched on Interpolar MTs in Early Prometaphase in Tobacco BY-2 Cells. Supplemental Movie 4. YFP:ATK5 Moves from the Pole to the Midzone during Prometaphase and Becomes Enriched in Regions of Overlap between Antiparallel Interpolar MT Bundles.
