!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis genome contains seven cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) inhibitors (ICK for inhibitor/interactor with cyclin-dependent kinase) which share a small conserved C-terminal domain responsible for the CDK-inhibition activity by these proteins. Different ICK/KRPs have been shown to have unique expression patterns within tissues, organs and during the cell cycle. Previous studies have shown that overexpressing one of the ICK/KRPs inhibits CDK activity, cell division, and profoundly affects plant growth and development. In this study, we investigated the subcellular localization of the seven Arabidopsis ICK proteins and domains responsible for this localization. Using transgenic expression in Arabidopsis plants and transient expression in tobacco leaf cells, all ICK/KRPs fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP) were localized to the nucleus, suggesting that the nucleus is the cellular compartment for the plant CDK inhibitors to function. While ICK2/KRP2, ICK4/KRP6, and ICK5/KRP7 were localized to the nucleoplasm in a homogeneous manner, ICK1/KRP1, ICK3/KRP5, ICK6/KRP3, and ICK7/KRP4 showed a punctate pattern of localization. A small motif conserved amongst the latter group of ICK/KRPs is required to confer this subcellular pattern as deletion of this motif from ICK7/KRP4 resulted in a shift from a punctate to a homogeneous pattern of localization. While a single nuclear localization signal (NLS) is responsible for the nuclear localization of ICK2/KRP2, multiple mechanisms for nuclear localization are suggested to exist for the other six ICK/KRPs since deletion mutants lacking predicted NLS motifs and the conserved C-terminal domain are still localized in the nucleus.
!~RES~! To discover any nuclear targeting information within the coding sequences of the ICKs, two independent software analysis tools were used: PredictNLS and PSort. PredictNLS (http://www.cubic.bioc.columbia.edu/predictNLS/; Cokol et al. CITATION) uses a database of experimentally demonstrated NLS motifs to identify the likelihood of a similar sequence within the query sequence. PSort (http://www.psort.ims.u-tokyo.ac.jp/; Nakai and Horton CITATION) uses an algorithm based on both the four amino acid NLS typified by the SV40 large T-antigen and the bipartite NLS proposed by (Robbins et al. CITATION) in Xenopus nucleoplasmin. Because the PredictNLS analysis is based on experimental data, it presumably offers a prediction that would likely have fewer false positives, while the latter may offer greater sensitivity to potential NLSs, but more false positives. Both PSort and PredictNLS predicted an NLS within the first 26 amino acids of ICK2/KRP2 (At3g50630) (Table 1). No NLS was found in ICK3/KRP5 (At3g24810) using PredictNLS analysis, while PSort suggested the presence of an NLS at residues 60–76 (Table 1). ICK4/KRP6 (At3g19150) was not predicted to possess an NLS by either analysis (Table 1). Two NLSs were predicted by PSort to exist within the ICK5/KRP7 (At1g49620) coding sequence, one at amino acids 5–8 and the second at 142–145 (Table 1). Similar to ICK4/KRP6, no NLS was predicted by either method for ICK6/KRP3 (At5g48820) (Table 1). For ICK7/KRP4 (At2g32710), both PSort and PredictNLS identified a single putative NLS at residues 112–126 (Table 1). [[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] While ICK1/KRP1 has been shown to be localized to the nucleus, the remaining six Arabidopsis ICK/KRPs have not been characterized as to their subcellular location. Based on the software-assisted analysis, it was predicted that ICK/KRPs 2–7 would be localized to the cytosol or nucleus, depending on the absence or presence of an NLS, respectively. To investigate the location of ICK2/KRP2 through ICK7/KRP4, the corresponding Arabidopsis cDNAs were cloned into a plant expression vector to express each of the ICK/KRPs in plants as a fusion to the green fluorescent protein (GFP; Fig. 1). These constructs were tested by transient expression in tobacco leaf epidermal cells. In contrast to our predictions based on the bioinformatic analysis, all GFP–ICK fusion proteins were detected exclusively within the nucleus (Fig. 2). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  It was further observed that similar to ICK1/KRP1, ICK3/KRP5, ICK6/KRP3, and ICK7/KRP4 showed a pattern of localization with minute punctate regions of brighter fluorescence within the nucleus (Fig. 2a, c, f, g). Counterstaining with DAPI revealed that these densely-staining regions appeared to co-localize to some extent, but not completely, with the DAPI-stained regions (Fig. 2). In contrast, ICK2/KRP2, ICK4/KRP6, and ICK5/KRP7 did not show this punctate subnuclear pattern and the fluorescence was largely uniform within the nucleoplasm (Fig. 2b, d, e). Localization of these GFP–ICK fusions was noticeably weaker in areas rich with heterochromatin. In all cases, GFP fluorescence was excluded from nucleoli (Fig. 2). To test if the patterns of localization within tobacco epidermal cells would be consistent with localization in the native system, Arabidopsis plants were transformed with GFP-tagged ICK genes under the control of the 35S cauliflower mosaic virus promoter. As observed in tobacco epidermal cells, the GFP fusion proteins of ICK/KRPs were all localized in the nucleus (Fig. 3). Furthermore, ICK3/KRP5, ICK6/KRP3, and ICK7/KRP4 were nuclear-localized with punctate spots of fluorescence (Fig. 3b, e, f). ICK2/KRP2, ICK4/KRP6 and ICK5/KRP7, which showed homogeneous distribution throughout the nucleoplasm (except nucleoli) in tobacco cells, displayed the same pattern in Arabidopsis nuclei (Fig. 3a, c, d). These results indicate that ICK/KRPs showed similar nuclear localization patterns in tobacco and Arabidopsis cells, and thus the tobacco system can be used for identifying sequences in ICK/KRPs regulating the localization patterns. [[FIGURE]]  To identify sequences necessary for the nuclear and subnuclear localization observed for ICKs, we prepared a series of deletions for the coding regions of ICK/KRPs 2–7 (Fig. 1). All Arabidopsis ICK/KRPs share a conserved C-terminal domain required for the interactions of ICK1/KRP1 with CDKA and D-type cyclins (Fig. 1; Wang et al. CITATION). Furthermore, it was shown that a larger C-terminal fragment containing this conserved domain confers nuclear localization of GFP (Zhou et al. CITATION). Therefore, to determine additional sequences responsible for subcellular targeting other than this domain, we chose to omit the conserved C-terminal region in the deletion constructs. Expression in tobacco leaf epidermal cells of GFP–ICK233–208, which lacks the first 32 amino acids of ICK2/KRP2, resulted in largely cytosolic localization of GFP (Fig. 4a). Conversely, expression of the first 26 amino acids of ICK2/KRP2 (ICK21–26) fused to GFP resulted in only nuclear localization (Fig. 4b), indicating that this region contains a functional NLS as predicted by sequence analysis. This suggests that a single NLS is sufficient and necessary for complete nuclear localization in ICK2/KRP2. [[FIGURE]]  A C-terminal deletion mutant consisting of only the first 146 residues of ICK3/KRP5 (ICK31–146) resulted in a similar pattern of localization as the full length ICK3/KRP5 fused to GFP (Fig. 4c). GFP–ICK333–115 with only the central region of ICK3/KRP5 also showed the same pattern of localization (Fig. 4d). ICK31–53, with only the first 53 amino acids, was still sufficient to target GFP to the nucleus, despite lacking the putative NLS as predicted by PSort (Fig. 4e). Notably, a punctate pattern of subnuclear distribution was observed for GFP–ICK31–53 (Fig. 4e), similar to that for the full length fusion protein. These results suggest that the conserved CDKA/cyclinD binding domain at the C terminus of ICK3/KRP5 is not required for nuclear localization. Furthermore, information sufficient to confer nuclear localization is present in ICK3/KRP5 between residues 1–53, although no conserved motif or nuclear localization sequence can be found in this region. A C-terminal deletion of ICK4/KRP6 (ICK41–108), lacking the conserved CDKA/cyclinD binding domain, was still localized to the nucleus (Fig. 4f). This observation suggests that the conserved C terminus is not required for nuclear localization of ICK4/KRP6. Moreover, since sequence analysis did not find a typical NLS, an unidentified domain is present within residues 1–108 sufficient for nuclear localization of ICK4/KRP6. Similar to ICK4/KRP6, ICK51–153, a deletion of ICK5/KRP7 that lacked the conserved C-terminal domain, was localized to the nucleus (Fig. 4g). ICK51–99, a further deletion lacking the second putative NLS, was still localized to the nucleus (Fig. 4h). Even when only the first 46 residues of ICK5/KRP7 were fused to GFP, nuclear localization was still observed. However, a small amount of cytoplasmic fluorescence was observed for GFP–ICK51–46 as compared with no detectable cytoplasmic fluorescence for GFP–ICK5 and GFP–ICK51–99 (Fig. 4i). This observation suggests that the predicted NLS near the N terminus is not sufficient for exclusive nuclear localization and complete nuclear localization or retention requires additional information provided by other sequences in ICK5/KRP7. While no NLS was predicted to exist in ICK6/KRP3, two deletions ICK61–181 and ICK61–68 consisting of either the first 181 or 68 amino acids, both showed nuclear localization of GFP, (Fig. 4j, k). Similar to ICK3/KRP5, the same punctate pattern was observed for the full length ICK6/KRP3 as well as for the two ICK6/KRP3 deletion constructs tested (Fig. 4j, k). Since ICK61–68 retained the punctate pattern, these results together suggest that a domain conferring nuclear localization as well as the punctate pattern of subnuclear distribution exists within amino acids 1–68 of ICK6/KRP3. Two C-terminal deletions of ICK7/KRP4, ICK71–244 and ICK71–130, lacking the conserved C-terminal domain, but retaining the predicted NLS, were localized to the nucleus in a pattern similar to the full length protein (Fig. 4l, m). ICK7135–286, a deletion of ICK7/KRP4 lacking the putative NLS, was still retained in the nucleus, but did not show the subnuclear pattern observed for the full length ICK7/KRP4. Instead, this deletion mutant was localized within the nuclei in a homogeneous manner (Fig. 4n). These results suggest that ICK7/KRP4 contains at least two independent sequences sufficient for nuclear localization. Furthermore, a domain within the first 130 residues confers the observed punctate pattern of sub-nuclear localization of ICK7/KRP4.
!~MM~!  Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype ‘Columbia’ and Nicotiana tabacum ecotype ‘Little Havana’ were used in this study. Plants were grown in 4-in. pots in a growth chamber (22°C constant, 16 h day/8 h night). ICK/KRP open reading frames were amplified using Pfx DNA polymerase (Invitrogen, USA) from their respective cDNAs using gene-specific primers and cloned into pZ31C, a construct containing the coding sequence for soluble modified GFP (Davis and Vierstra CITATION; Zhou et al. CITATION). Subsequently the GFP–ICK fusion cassettes in pZ31C were cut with Bam HI/Sac I and inserted into the expression vector, pBI121, under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. The resulting plasmids were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 for both stable and transient transformation. Transformation of A. thaliana was conducted as described (Zhou et al. CITATION). Seeds (T1) from infiltrated plants were grown on half-strength MS basal medium containing 50 mg/L kanamycin and 300 mg/L timentin. Transgenic lines were confirmed by observing GFP fluorescence. Six- to 10-day old plants were used for confocal observation. Transient expression in Nicotiana tabacum was performed as previously described (Brandizzi et al. CITATION). Briefly, 1 mL of overnight Agrobacterium culture was centrifuged at 2,000×g in a bench microcentrifuge for 5 min. The cell pellet was washed once with 1 mL of infiltration buffer (50 mM MES, 2 mM Na3PO4, 1 mM acetosyringone, and 5 mg/mL glucose) and resuspended in the same buffer. Leaf sections (1 cm²) were observed 2–4 days after the transfection treatment. Leaf sections from Nicotiana tobacum 2–4 days post-infiltration were mounted in distilled water and observed on a Zeiss LSM 510 Meta laser scanning microscope (Carl Zeiss, Germany). GFP fluorescence was detected using argon ion laser excitation of 488 nm with a 505–530 nm bandpass filter. For nuclear staining, 5 μg/mL DAPI (4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylinodole) solution was infiltrated into the leaves with a 1 mL syringe prior to mounting. DAPI-stained tissue was allowed to stand for 10 min before viewing. DAPI was detected using a Neon diode excitation of 405 nm with a 420–480 nm bandpass filter. Images were processed with LSM 5 Image Browser (Carl Zeiss, Germany) and Corel Photopaint 8.0 software (Corel systems, Montreal, Canada).
