!~ABS~! Negative feedback is a fundamental mechanism of organisms to maintain the internal environment within tolerable limits. Gibberellins (GAs) are essential regulators of many aspects of plant development, including seed germination, stem elongation, and flowering. GA biosynthesis is regulated by the feedback mechanism in plants. GA 3-oxidase (GA3ox) catalyzes the final step of the biosynthetic pathway to produce the physiologically active GAs. Here, we found that only the AtGA3ox1 among the AtGA3ox family of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) is under the regulation of GA-negative feedback. We have identified a cis-acting sequence responsible for the GA-negative feedback of AtGA3ox1 using transgenic plants. Furthermore, we have identified an AT-hook protein, AGF1 (for the AT-hook protein of GA feedback regulation), as a DNA-binding protein for the cis-acting sequence of GA-negative feedback. The mutation in the cis-acting sequence abolished both GA-negative feedback and AGF1 binding. In addition, constitutive expression of AGF1 affected GA-negative feedback in Arabidopsis. Our results suggest that AGF1 plays a role in the homeostasis of GAs through binding to the cis-acting sequence of the GA-negative feedback of AtGA3ox1.
!~RES~! The Arabidopsis GA3ox gene family consists of four members. At1g15550 (AtGA3ox1) and At1g80340 (AtGA3ox2) have been demonstrated to encode active GA3ox (CITATION; CITATION). Although the enzymatic activity of At4g21690 (AtGA3ox3) and At1g80330 (AtGA3ox4) was not examined, these genes were regarded as members of the GA3ox family because of their high similarities to AtGA3ox1 (see Supplemental Fig. S1). Recent work suggested that AtGA3ox1 and 2 are responsible for vegetative growth; however, they are dispensable for reproductive development (CITATION). To obtain a further insight into the role of each gene of this family in GA homeostasis, we investigated which of the members of AtGA3ox family are regulated by feedback mechanism by reverse transcription (RT)-PCR and DNA gel-blot hybridization. First, we tried to determine where each AtGA3ox is expressed. Figure 1A shows that AtGA3ox1 was expressed in seedlings, leaves, stems, floral tips, and flowers. The mRNA for AtGA3ox2 was highly expressed in seedlings but was barely detectable in other tissues, as reported previously (CITATION). AtGA3ox3 mRNA was detected in floral tips and slightly in flowers. AtGA3ox4 mRNA was detected only in flowers among examined organs (CITATION). These results indicated that AtGA3ox1 is a major supplier of GA3ox enzymatic activity in any developmental stage. Based on the expression pattern, we next examined in seedlings and flowers the effects of applying GA or an inhibitor for GA biosynthesis, uniconazole P. The expression of AtGA3ox1 was regulated in a GA-negative feedback manner in both seedlings and flowers (Fig. 1B), as reported previously (CITATION). However, the expression of the other three AtGA3ox genes was not affected by the treatment with GA or uniconazole P (Fig. 1B). These results suggested that AtGA3ox1 plays a central role in the homeostasis of GA levels in plants. Thus, we focused on AtGA3ox1 to identify the molecular mechanisms involved in the transcriptional regulation of GA-negative feedback. [[FIGURE]] To define the cis-acting elements responsible for the GA-negative feedback of AtGA3ox1, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants carrying a series of 5′ deletions of the AtGA3ox1 promoter fused to a β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene. We examined the effect of applying an inhibitor for GA biosynthesis, uniconazole P, or GA to the transgenic plants. Uniconazole P increased GUS activity, whereas GA decreased it for the Δ-2008 construct (Fig. 2A ), showing that the fusion gene was under the control of GA-negative feedback. Although deletion of 992 bp from −2,008 to −1,017 (Δ-1016) resulted in a decrease of GUS activity, the feedback regulation was clearly preserved. Deletion of 208 bp from −1,016 to −809 (Δ-808) resulted in loss of GA-negative feedback. Conversely, the expression of Δ-808 was induced by GA. Therefore, there should be a cis-element(s) responsible for GA-negative feedback between −1,016 and −809 in the AtGA3ox1 promoter. [[FIGURE]] To examine the function of the 208-bp sequence between −1,016 and −809 in the feedback regulation of GA, we carried out a gain-of-function experiment. Five tandem copies of the 208-bp DNA fragment of the AtGA3ox1 promoter were cloned upstream of a minimal promoter-GUS (208 × 5). The 208-bp DNA fragment endowed the reporter with a remarkable property of feedback regulation (Fig. 2B), suggesting that the sequences are sufficient for GA- negative feedback. To further define cis-elements for the GA-negative feedback of the AtGA3ox1 promoter, 5′ deletion analysis of the 208-bp sequence between −1,016 and −809 was performed. Deletion of 56 bp from −1,016 to −961 (Δ-960) resulted in loss of the feedback regulation by GA (Fig. 2C). Consistently, Δ-918 and Δ-857 were not under the control of GA-negative feedback. The expression of Δ-857 was induced by GA; so was that of Δ-808. One possible explanation of this observation is that a GA-responsive element might exist downstream of −808 in the AtGA3ox1 promoter and be suppressed by the sequence upstream of −857. Furthermore, addition of the 43-bp sequence from −1,003 to −961 into Δ-918 recovered the GA-negative feedback (Δ-961/-918; Fig. 2C). These results substantiate the importance of the 43-bp sequence in the feedback regulation of GA. In summary, our results show that the 208-bp sequence between −1,016 and −809 is sufficient for GA-negative feedback and that the 43-bp sequence from −1,003 to −961 is indispensable. We named the 43-bp sequence GNFEI (for GA-negative feedback element I) and focused on the trans-acting factor that binds to it. To identify transcription factors that bind directly to GNFEI, we performed a yeast one-hybrid screen using 3 × GNFEI as bait on the Arabidopsis cDNA library. Screening of 3 × 106 transformants yielded two clones. A sequencing and database search revealed that both clones contained an AT-hook motif. Our cDNA clones represented two distinct genes, At4g35390 and At4g55560. We isolated the cDNA clones of At4g35390 and At4g55560 and confirmed the binding of the proteins to GNFEI in a yeast one-hybrid assay. We named these proteins AGF1 (for AT-hook protein of GA feedback regulation; At4g35390) and AGF2 (At3g55560). AGF1 was chosen for further analysis. An AT-hook motif and a conserved domain PPC (for plants and prokaryotes conserved domain) are found in the central part of this family of proteins (Fig. 3, A and B ). Unlike HMGA proteins that contain three or four repeats of the AT-hook motif, AGF1 has only a single AT-hook motif. AGF1 belongs to a gene family consisting of 29 members in Arabidopsis. The family members break into two major evolutionary clades in the phylogenetic analysis (Fig. 3C). A nuclear matrix protein AHL1 (for At-hook motif nuclear localized protein 1) of Arabidopsis (CITATION) belongs to a distinct clade from that containing AGF1. [[FIGURE]] To confirm the specific binding of AGF1 to GNFEI, a gel retardation assay was performed. AGF1 protein prepared by in vitro translation formed a specific complex with a 32P-labeled GNFEI fragment (Fig. 4A ). Six copies of the AAAT sequence were found in GNFEI (Fig. 4B). Because it has been shown that the AT-hook motif binds to an AT-rich sequence (CITATION), the repeat of the AAAT sequence could be the target of AGF1. To determine the nucleotides that are important for binding to AGF1, we tested mutant variants of the GNFEI for AGF1 binding in gel-shift assays. Mutations in repeats 1 and 2 (Mt1) or in repeats 5 and 6 (Mt3) resulted in only a slight reduction of AGF1 binding; however, mutations in repeats 3 and 4 (Mt2) diminished the ability to interact with AGF1 (Fig. 4C). Furthermore, the formation of a complex of wild-type GNFEI with AGF1 was not inhibited in the presence of an excess amount of the mutated sequence Mt2 (data not shown). These results indicate that AAAT sequences in the central region of GNFEI (repeats 3 and 4) are important for AGF1 binding, whereas adjacent repeats are dispensable for the binding. [[FIGURE]] We examined the transcriptional activity of AGF1 in yeasts. AGF1 itself, as well as a fusion protein of AGF1 with the GAL4 activation domain, activated the transcription of 3 × GNFEI-HIS3 in the yeast one-hybrid assay (Fig. 4D), indicating that AGF1 is a transcriptional activator, at least in yeasts. To determine whether in vitro binding of AGF1 to GNFEI is consistent with in vivo GA-negative feedback, we constructed a mutant version of the Δ-1016 AtGA3ox1 promoter-GUS in which the mutation corresponding to Mt2 was introduced to eliminate the ability to bind with AGF1 (Fig. 5A ). As expected, Mt2 mutation abolished the transcriptional regulation of the GA-negative feedback of the AtGA3ox1 promoter in the transgenic Arabidopsis plants (Fig. 5A). This loss-of-function experiment showed that the AAAT sequences in the central region of GNFEI (repeats 3 and 4) are necessary for both GA-negative feedback and AGF binding, suggesting that AGF1 is involved in the feedback regulation of AtGA3ox1 through binding to GNFEI. [[FIGURE]] To examine whether Mt2 mutation affected the spatial expression pattern of AtGA3ox1, we compared the patterns of GUS staining in transgenic plants carrying the wild-type Δ-1016 construct with those of the Mt2 mutant version. Histochemical analysis indicated that the wild-type AtGA3ox1-GUS reporter gene was expressed in hypocotyls, cotyledons, petioles, and shoot apices (Fig. 5B, a and insert). However, the Mt2 mutant version was not expressed in the shoot apices (Fig. 5B, c and insert). These observations suggest that AGF binding to GNFEI participates in GA-negative feedback as well as in the control of expression in the shoot apices of AtGA3ox1. We also examined whether the decrease of GA levels alters the pattern of the tissue-specific expression of AtGA3ox1 or simply elevates the levels of expression in those same tissues. The application of uniconazole P elevated the AtGA3ox1 mRNA levels in organ regions and tissues that normally express AtGA3ox1 (Fig. 5B, b). The expression pattern of the Mt2 mutant version was not affected by uniconazole P (Fig. 5B, d). Our results show that AtGA3ox1 was regulated in a tissue-specific manner and this regulation was maintained even when the endogenous GA levels decreased. The expression pattern of AtGA3ox1-GUS in normal conditions was independently reported (CITATION). Although they observed strong staining in roots, we detected only weak GUS activities in roots. This discrepancy might be reflecting the promoter length of the GUS fusion genes; we used 1 kb of 5′ upstream region, while they used 3 kb. In other organs, both observations were similar. The expression pattern of the AGF1 gene was investigated by RT-PCR analysis, with total RNAs isolated from Arabidopsis plants. The mRNAs for AGF1 are expressed in seedlings, leaves, stems, floral tips, and flowers (Fig. 6A ). We next investigated whether the transcription of the AGF1 gene is regulated by the GA levels. Figure 6B shows that the AGF1 mRNA levels were not affected by the treatment with either GA or uniconazole P. This result suggests that the function of AGF1 is regulated at the posttranscriptional and/or posttranslational levels. [[FIGURE]] RSG (for REPRESSION OF SHOOT GROWTH) is a tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) transcriptional activator with a basic Leu zipper domain that is involved in the regulation of endogenous amounts of GAs (CITATION). The intracellular localization of RSG is regulated by the endogenous amounts of GAs (CITATION). We examined the intracellular localization of AGF1 using transgenic Arabidopsis plants in which the fusion gene of AGF1 and green fluorescent protein (GFP) was expressed under the control of the 35S promoter of the Cauliflower mosaic virus. Consistent with the observation that AGF1 is a DNA-binding protein, AGF1-GFP was localized exclusively in the nucleus in the epidermal cells of petioles in transgenic plants (Fig. 6C). Next, we examined the effects of applying GA or an inhibitor for GA biosynthesis, uniconazole P, to transgenic plants in which AGF1-GFP was expressed. Figure 6C shows that the subcellular localization of AGF1-GFP was not affected by the treatment with either GA or uniconazole P. These results suggest that the function of AGF1 is regulated by mechanisms other than the control of intracellular localization. To confirm the function of AGF1 in the GA-negative feedback, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis constitutively expressing AGF1. Because the expression level of AtGA3ox1 of the AGF1 constitutive expressor in 5-d-old seedlings was comparable to that of the wild type, AGF1 did not seem to be a general enhancer of AtGA3ox1. But the feedback up-regulation of AtGA3ox1 by uniconazole P application was enhanced in AGF1 constitutive expressor (Fig. 7A ). If AGF1 plays a role as a transcriptional activator in response to decrease of GA levels, constitutive expression of AGF1 should suppress the transcriptional repression of AtGA3ox1 by GA. GA application after uniconazole P treatment immediately repressed the expression of AtGA3ox1 in wild type to 30% at 30 min and 10% at 60 min. However, this feedback repression was attenuated in AGF1 constitutive expressor, i.e. the expression level of AtGA3ox1 was maintained at 80% at 30 min and 30% at 60 min (Fig. 7B). Because AGF1 constitutive expression conferred both hyper up-regulation of AtGA3ox1 by reduction of GA levels and resistance to down-regulation of AtGA3ox1 by excess GA, AGF1 may be a transcriptional activator specific to GA-negative feedback. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! To create the three tandem copies of GNFEI of the AtGA3ox1 for a one-hybrid screen, the PCR-amplified fragment (−1,003 to −961) with XbaI (5′ end) and SpeI (3′ end) was cloned into XbaI of pBluescript II. The fragment containing three tandem copies of GNFEI was excised by EcoRI and XhoI from the pBluescript II and cloned into the HIS3 reporter plasmid, pHISi (CLONTECH). The reporter construct was integrated into the genome of the yeast strain YM4271. The cDNA library of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) seedlings was screened by transformation of the reporter strains on plates without His but containing 3-aminotriazole (40 mm). The promoter of AtGA3ox1 (−2,016 to −1) was amplified by a PCR reaction from Arabidopsis genomic DNA with two primers, 5′-AAAGGATCCCTTGCTCTTTTTTAATTAGTTTTA-3′ and 5′-AAAGTCGACTCTTCCACTAAACAAAACTGGAAT-3′, generating a BamHI site and a SalI site at the 5′ and the 3′ ends, respectively. The amplified DNA fragment was digested with SalI/BamHI, cloned into a pUC18 vector, and sequenced. A series of 5′ deletion constructs was generated by PCR using this plasmid as a template. To make the internal deletion constructs, the PCR-amplified upstream fragments of the promoter with HindIII (5′ end) and SalI (3′ end) were cloned into HindIII and SalI of the 5′ deletion constructs. To make the five tandem copies of a 208-bp fragment of the AtGA3ox1 promoter (−1,016 to −808), the PCR-amplified fragment with XbaI (5′ end) and SpeI (3′ end) was cloned into XbaI of pUC18. Five tandem copies of the 208-bp DNA fragment of the AtGA3ox1 promoter were cloned upstream of the parB minimal promoter. The 5′ end of the parB minimal promoter was 4 bp upstream of the TATA box of parB (CITATION). The integrity of all constructs was confirmed by DNA sequencing. These AtGA3ox1 promoter constructs were subcloned into transformation vector pBI101 to generate GUS fusion genes. For generating AGF1 constitutive expressor and GFP fusion constructs, AGF1 cDNA was amplified by specific primer pairs and cloned into pJ4 and pJ4-GFP vector, respectively (CITATION; CITATION). These AGF1 constructs were subcloned into transformation vector pBI101. All Arabidopsis lines used were in the Columbia-0 background. Columbia-0 was used as the wild type. Seeds were sterilized and were sown on media containing 0.3% phytagel (Sigma) and half-strength Murashige and Skoog salts, and 1% Suc with or without antibiotic. The plates were incubated in the dark at 4°C for 3 d and subsequently transferred to a continuous light or long-day condition (18 h of light/6 h of dark) at 22°C. For hormonal treatments, 5-d-old seedlings were transferred to the plate containing 10 mg/L GA3 or 1 mg/L uniconazole P (Wako) and grown for 1 week. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants were produced by the floral-dip method (CITATION) with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101. Transformed plants were selected on plates containing 50 μg/mL kanamycin. Transgenic plants identified in this generation were classified as T1 plants. Kanamycin-resistant transformants were histochemically stained to detect GUS activity by immersing seedlings in a staining solution (a 50 mm sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.5, with 0.1% Triton X-100 and 1 mm 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl 6-β-glucuronide) overnight at 37°C. After staining, samples were immersed in a fixing solution (5% formaldehyde, 5% potassium acetate, 20% ethanol) followed by dechlorophylation in 70% ethanol. For RT-PCR studies, total RNAs were converted into cDNAs using SuperScript III (Invitrogen) and oligo(dT)12–18 (Amersham Bioscience). PCR was performed with cDNA derived from 0.1 μg of total RNA with Extaq (Takara). The specific primer sequences were 5′-GCCGGATCCAATTAAAAAAGAGCAAGATGCCTGCTAT-3′ and 5′-AAAGGTACCTGTTCCTCGTACTCTTCAACGATATCG-3′ for AtGA3ox1, 5′-GCCGGGATCCCACATAAGCCTTTTAGCATGAGTTCAAC-3′ and 5′-GCCGGTACCTGTTCTTCATACTCTTCAATAATTTCA-3′ for AtGA3ox2, 5′-GCCGGATCCATCCTATAATTATAATCATGAGCTCTGT-3′ and 5′-AAAGGTACCGCCTTCTGATACTCTTCCATCACATTG-3′ for AtGA3ox3, 5′-GCCGGATCCTCATTAGTTCACAAGTCATGCCTTCACT-3′ and 5′-GCAGGTACCTCGTCCACGTATTCTTGGATTATACCG-3′ for AtGA3ox4, and 5′-GAAGTCGACCGTGAGATTCTTCACATCCAGGGTGGTC-3′ and 5′-CGCGGATCCCATAGTAGCAGAAATCAAGTGGTTCAAA-3′ for β-tubulin. The PCR products were separated by size on a 1% (w/v) agarose gel, blotted onto Biodyne B (Pall), and hybridized with DNA probes. The chemiluminescence signal was detected with an imaging system (LAS1000 plus; Fujifilm). AGF1 protein was prepared in vitro using rabbit reticulocyte lysate as described previously (CITATION). The oligonucleotide sequences of the GNFEI fragment used for the gel mobility shift assays were 5′-GAGTTTTGTATGTTCAAATAAATATTTATTTATTTTTATATATTT-3′ and 5′-GAGAAAATATATAAAAATAAATAAATATTTATTTGAACATACAAAA. The oligonucleotides were annealed and then labeled with [α-32P]dCTP and the Klenow fragment of DNA polymerase I. Binding mixtures contained 100 fmol of a labeled probe, in vitro-translated AGF1, and 2 μg of poly(dI-dC). Cold dsDNA fragments of GNFEI were used at 100-fold molar excess as DNA competitor. The binding buffer consisted of 25 mm HEPES-KOH, pH 7.9, 10 mm MgCl2, 50 mm KCl, 0.5 mm EDTA, 10% glycerol, and 0.5 mm dithiothreitol. Reactions were incubated at room temperature for 15 min and loaded onto 8% polyacrylamide gels containing 44.5 mm Tris, 44.5 mm borate, and 1 mm EDTA. Epidermal cells of petioles of transgenic Arabidopsis seedlings were examined using an epifluorescence microscope (Nikon eclipse 80i) equipped with a CCD camera (Nikon DXM1200C). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Alignment of AtGA3ox proteins.
