!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis monovalent cation:proton antiporter-1 (CPA1) family includes eight members, AtNHX1–8. AtNHX1 and AtNHX7/SOS1 have been well characterized as tonoplast and plasma membrane Na+/H+ antiporters, respectively. The proteins AtNHX2–6 have been phylogenetically linked to AtNHX1, while AtNHX8 appears to be related to AtNHX7/SOS1. Here we report functional characterization of AtNHX8. AtNHX8 T-DNA insertion mutants are hypersensitive to lithium ions (Li+) relative to wild-type plants, but not to the other metal ions such as sodium (Na+), potassium (K+) and caesium (Cs+). AtNHX8 overexpression in a triple-deletion yeast mutant AXT3 that exhibits defective Na+/Li+ transport specifically suppresses sensitivity to Li+, but does not affect Na+ sensitivity. Likewise, AtNHX8 overexpression complemented sensitivity to Li+, but not Na+, in sos1-1 mutant seedlings, and increased Li+ tolerance of both the sos1-1 mutant and wild-type seedlings. Results of Li+ and K+ measurement of loss-of-function and gain-of-function mutants indicate that AtNHX8 may be responsible for Li+ extrusion, and may be able to maintain K+ acquisition and intracellular ion homeostasis. Subcellular localization of the AtNHX8–enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) fusion protein suggested that AtNHX8 protein is targeted to the plasma membrane. Taken together, our findings suggest that AtNHX8 encodes a putative plasma membrane Li+/H+ antiporter that functions in Li detoxification and ion homeostasis in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! The AtNHX8 protein belongs to the Na+/H+ antiporter family, and is phylogenetically related to AtNHX7/SOS1. The predicted AtNHX8 full-length protein exhibits approximately 72% identity with the SOS1 sequence over a stretch of 760 amino acids. Hydrophobicity plot analysis showed that the N-terminal region of AtNHX8 is highly hydrophobic (Figure S1 in Supplementary Material). Analysis of its genomic sequence has revealed that the AtNHX8 gene consists of 18 exons and 17 introns (Figure 1a). Two Arabidopsis thaliana mutant lines, named nhx8-1 and nhx8-2, harbouring T-DNA insertions within the 14th intron and the 14th exon, respectively, of the AtNHX8 gene (Salk-070497 and Salk-086336; Figure 1a) were identified in the SIGnAL database (http://signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/tdnaexpress). nhx8-1 and nhx8-2 knockout mutant plants lack AtNHX8 transcript expression, as demonstrated by RT–PCR analysis using AtNHX8-specific primers (Figure 1b). Homozygous mutants showed a clear Li+-hypersensitivity phenotype that was apparent under low-Li+ concentrations during seed germination and during the early growth period of the seedlings (Figure 1c). While germination of wild-type seeds was not significantly disrupted by exposure to LiCl at concentrations <15 mm, germination of mutant seeds was significantly inhibited in the presence of 10 mm LiCl. When exposed to 10 mm LiCl, about 80% of the wild-type seeds germinated, whereas only 50% of the mutant seeds germinated during the 7-day period following transfer to 23°C (Figure 1c). Yet no significant difference was found in germination and subsequent seedling growth between the nhx8-1 or nhx8-2 and wild type under 50 or 100 mm NaCl treatment (Figure 1c). Root elongation of the nhx8 mutants was also more sensitive to exogenous LiCl than that of the wild-type plants (Figure 1d). nhx8 mutant hypersensitivity appears to be limited to Li+, as no hypersensitivity to other alkali metals, such as Na+, K+ and Cs+, was observed in our experiments (Figure 1d). [[FIGURE]] We further assessed the Li+ and K+ contents of wild-type, nhx8-1 and nhx8-2 seedlings under moderate LiCl treatment. Li+ contents of mutants treated with 15 mm LiCl were both slightly higher than those of the wild type, and their K+ contents were lower than the wild type (Figure 1e).The results suggest that the Li+ sensitivity of nhx8-1 and nhx8-2 is correlated with their cellular Li+ and K+ contents. Yeast has been utilized as a model organism to study transport and homeostasis of alkali metal cations (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Cells of S. cerevisiae with mutations in ENA1-4 and NHA1, as well as in NHX1, are unable to grow in media containing high concentrations of toxic cations, primarily Na+ and Li+ (CITATION). AXT3 cells expressing AtNHX8 exhibited no significant growth difference with respect to control cells when tested in normal medium. However, in medium with 3 mm LiCl concentration, which is normally highly toxic to AXT3 cells, AtNHX8 expression greatly improved yeast growth. No growth improvement was observed in the presence of other cations in concentrations toxic to AXT3 cells (70 mm NaCl, 1 m KCl, 30 μg ml−1 HygB; Figure 2 and data not shown). The nhx1 mutation in S. cerevisiae also causes strong specific hygromycin sensitivity in cells, which have been widely used in functional complementation studies to identify vacuolar membrane Na+/H+ antiporters. AtNHX8 expression did not suppress AXT3 hygromycin sensitivity caused by the nhx1 mutation, suggesting that AtNHX8 is involved in extruding Li+ from the cytosol at the plasma membrane, but not in sequestering Li+ into vacuoles. Our findings also suggest that AtNHX8 is important for Li+ tolerance, but not for tolerance to Na+ or other toxic ions. In summary, AtNHX8 expression selectively suppresses the Li+-sensitive phenotype of the yeast AXT3 mutant, suggesting that it directs Li+ extrusion out of the cell, and functions as an Li+/H+ transporter. [[FIGURE]] As AtNHX8 is a putative Na+/H+ antiporter, we hypothesized that it might be inducible by cation stress. AtNHX8-specific primers were chosen to perform the RT–PCR experiment. RT–PCR results indicated that AtNHX8 transcript abundance was not significantly changed by the stress treatments of NaCl, KCl or LiCl (Figure 3a). Thus the AtNHX8 gene appears not to be transcriptionally activated under the cation stress conditions tested. This result is consistent with microarray data (CITATION). RT–PCR analyses also revealed that AtNHX8 is expressed in all organs examined, including roots, shoots, leaves and flowers (Figure 3b). The transcript level appeared to be a little higher in leaves than in other organs. [[FIGURE]] Promoter–β-glucuronidase (GUS) analysis was performed to examine the tissue-specificity of AtNHX8 expression. GUS staining was detected in the leaves, hypocotyls, primary roots and root hairs of the transgenic seedlings. GUS staining was most pronounced in the vascular tissue cells of the leaves; robust GUS staining was also observed in the root hairs (Figure 3c). Confocal imaging analysis of overexpressed AtNHX8–enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) fusion protein in transgenic Arabidopsis young roots indicated that the protein is targeted to the plasma membrane (Figure 4b). As there are no large vacuoles in young roots, it is reasonable to believe the fusion protein was targeted to the plasma membrane rather than the tonoplast (CITATION). The result is in agreement with plasma membrane localization data from proteomic analyses (http://psort.nibb.ac.jp/form.html). A vector-only control not including AtNHX8 was also used as shown in Figure 4(a), in which the EGFP fluorescence spread throughout the cell. [[FIGURE]] To assess further the ion specificity of AtNHX8, we generated AtNHX8 overexpression lines in the sos1-1 mutant background. The sos1-1 background was chosen because the root growth of sos1-1 plants is obviously hypersensitive to both NaCl and LiCl (CITATION; CITATION). Furthermore, the high degree of sequence similarity between the two genes suggests that the function of AtNHX8 may be similar to that of SOS1. We observed no discernible phenotypic difference under NaCl stress between sos1-1 mutant plants and the sos1-1 plants overexpressing AtNHX8 (sos1-1 35S-AtNHX8; Figure 5a). However, when the transgenic plants were subjected to the stress of Li+ (10–50 mm LiCl), the sos1-1 35S-AtNHX8 transgenic seedlings displayed greatly enhanced Li+ tolerance (Figure 5a). These results indicate that overexpression of AtNHX8 selectively complemented the Li+-sensitive phenotype of the sos1-1 mutant, and greatly improved the Li+ tolerance of sos1-1 mutant seedlings. Similar results were obtained during germination. The germination rates of lines overexpressing AtNHX8 approached nearly 100% in the presence of 20 mm LiCl, a concentration that strongly inhibited germination in wild-type plants (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] The seedlings’ root growth was also measured under Li+ or Na+ treatments. The root growth of the sos1-1 35S-AtNHX8 exhibited no obvious difference with increased LiCl treatment, but they showed similar growth with sos1-1 when subjected to NaCl stress (Figure 5b). Although it seemed that the sos1-1 35S-AtNHX8 seedlings were slightly more tolerant to 50 mm NaCl, they were eventually killed by 100 mm NaCl as sos1-1 (Figure 5a,b). Transgenic seedlings with a wild-type background expressing AtNHX8 (35S-AtNHX8) displayed no obvious differences from wild-type seedlings under KCl, CsCl or CaCl2 stress (data not shown), as well as 50 or 100 mm NaCl treatment (Figure 6a). However, the 35S-AtNHX8 seedlings displayed dramatically improved Li+ tolerance (Figure 6a). The three lines of 35S-AtNHX8 transgenic seedlings could survive with LiCl stress as high as 40–50 mm LiCl, while wild-type seedlings could not grow when Li+ concentration was >20 mm (Figure 6a). [[FIGURE]] In addition we found that, on LiCl treatment, seedlings overexpressing AtNHX8 accumulated less Li+ than wild-type plants (Figure 6c), suggesting that AtNHX8 is important for Li+ efflux in plant cells. Examination of K+ content revealed that the transgenic lines maintained substantially higher K+ content when subjected to 30 mm LiCl treatment (Figure 6d). This suggests that AtNHX8 is involved in the regulation of K+ and other ion homeostasis under Li+ stress conditions. We also examined the effect of Li+ on the germination of transgenic seeds and subsequent seedling growth. Both the germination of wild-type seeds and subsequent seedling growth were nearly completely inhibited by 20 mm LiCl, whereas transgenic plants were not much affected. More significantly, these transgenic plants could grow even in the presence of 50 mm LiCl (Figure 7). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia was used in all seedling experiments. The seeds were surface-sterilized and stratified at 4°C for 2–4 days. They were then sown on solid agar plates containing Murashige and Skoog (MS) salts, 3% (w/v) sugar, 1% agar adjusted to pH 5.7, and incubated in a growth chamber at 23°C under a 16-h light/8-h dark photoperiod at 130 μE m−2 sec−1. Cation tolerance tests were performed using the root-bending assay (CITATION). Five-day-old seedlings grown on MS agar plates (1% agar, pH 5.7) containing 3% sucrose were transferred to agar plates containing the identical growth media, or plates supplemented with various concentrations of cations. Four to six plants were placed on each of three identical plates at each salt concentration. The treatment plates were incubated vertically with seedlings in the upright position. For in vitro germination tests, seeds were sown in MS agar plates supplemented with different concentrations of LiCl or NaCl. The nhx8-1 and nhx8-2 insertion alleles were isolated from the T-DNA-transformed Arabidopsis collection from the SIGnAL database (http://signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/tdnaexpress). The nhx8-1 insertion in the gene was identified using the T-DNA left-border primer LB-1 (5′-GCCTTTTCAGAAATGGATAAATAGCCTTGCTTCCT-3′) and AtNHX8 gene-specific forward (5′-CCCTCTAACAAGCCAACCTTCTCA-3′) and reverse (5′-TCCTCACGATGGGTACGAAGC-3′) primers. The nhx8-2 insertion was identified using the T-DNA left-border primer LB-1 and AtNHX8 gene-specific forward (5′-TGGCCAATATCAGCCTATCAG-3′) and reverse (5′-ATCTTGGAGATGACGAGGAGC-3′) primers. The homozygous nhx8-1 and nhx8-2 mutants were identified by PCR analysis. Plants possessing the homozygous nhx8-1 and nhx8-2 mutant genotypes were used for further analysis. Total RNA was isolated from 2-week-old seedlings of wild-type plants with the TRIzol® reagent (Invitrogen http://www.invitrogen.com). First-strand cDNA was synthesized from total RNA (2 μg) with M-MLV reverse transcriptase (Promega http://www.promega.com), and used as a template for subsequent PCR amplification. PCR amplification was performed using pfx DNA polymerase (Invitrogen). AtNHX8 cDNA and genomic DNA were amplified by PCR with the cDNA and genomic DNA, respectively, serving as templates. The forward primer used in the PCR amplification was 5′-ACCTCTAGAATGACGAGTATAATCGGCGCGGCG-3′, and the reverse primer was 5′-ACCGGTACCTCATGCATCTGTTTCGCCAATGGCC-3′. The forward and reverse primers were introduced into the XbaI and KpnI restriction enzyme sites, respectively, shown as underlined areas. The PCR products were cloned into pMD18-T vectors (TaKaRa) and sequenced. To construct the transgenic vectors, the EGFP coding sequence was amplified from the pEZT-NL vector using the following primers: 5′-AAATCTAGACTCGAGCGGGCCCGGGATCCGGCTG-3′ (forward), 5′-ACCGAGCTCGGTACCTTACTTGTACAGCTCGTCCATGCC-3′ (reverse). The forward and reverse primers were introduced into XbaI–XhoI and SacI–KpnI restriction enzyme sites, respectively. The fragment was ligated into the XbaI/SacI sites of the pBI121 plasmid in place of GUS to form an intermediate vector, pBI-EGFP. AtNHX8 cDNA and genomic fragments cut from the pMD18 vectors were then cloned into the XbaI and KpnI sites of pBI121–EGFP, respectively, in place of the EGFP gene. To generate an AtNHX8–EGFP fusion construct, the AtNHX8 cDNA was amplified from the pMD18-NHX8 vector containing AtNHX8 using the following primers: 5′-ACCTCTAGAATGACGAGTATAATCGGCGCGGCG-3′ (forward) and 5′-ACCCCCGGGATGCATCTGTTTCGCCAATGGCC-3′ (reverse). The PCR products were cloned into pMD18-T vectors and sequenced. The resultant cDNA fragment, in which the stop codon was eliminated, was then cut from the pMD18 vector and cloned into the XbaI and SmaI sites of the pBI121–EGFP vector. Each of these three kinds of transgenic vector were introduced into Agrobacterium GV3101 strain cells. The floral-dipping method (CITATION) was used to transform sos1-1 mutant or wild-type Arabidopsis plants. Transgenic plants were screened on kanamycin plates and transformants were transferred to soil for germinating. Total RNA was isolated from wild-type or transgenic plants with the TRIzol® reagent. First-strand cDNA was synthesized with the M-MLV reverse transcriptase (Promega) from total RNA (approximately 2 μg), and used as template for PCR amplification. AtNHX8 gene-specific primers were as follows: forward primer TF 5′-TCTGACTTGAAGAAGCTCCTGAG-3′ and reverse primer TR 5′-TCAAAGCCAAAAAGGATTGATTGAA-3′. β-tubulin primers were as follows: β-tub1 forward primer 5′-CGTGGATCACAGCAATACAGAGCC-3′; β-tub2 reverse primer 5′-CCTCCTGCACTTCCACTTCGTCTTC-3′ (CITATION). We used 23 PCR cycles for β-tubulin and 27 PCR cycles for AtNHX8 amplifications. The PCR program used was as follows: 94°C for 30 sec, 55°C for 30 sec and 72°C for 45 sec. A final incubation at 72°C for 7 min was performed to complete product synthesis. At least five replications were carried out for each treatment. PCR products were separated on a 1.5% agarose gel stained with ethidium bromide and then quantified using a densitometer with IS-1000 digital imaging system software (Alpha Innotech http://www.alphainnotech.com). The PCR-amplified products were KpnI/XbaI-digested and cloned directionally into the yeast expression vector pYES2 (Invitrogen). The construct was used to transform the yeast strain AXT3. Sequencing analysis confirmed that the inserts contained in the pYES2 plasmids were the same as the Arabidopsis AtNHX8 gene. Saccharomyces cerevisiae mutant strain AXT3 (Δena1-4::HIS3 Δnha1::LEU2 Δnhx1::TRP1) was kindly provided by J. M. Pardo, Instituto de Recursos Naturales y Agrobiología (IRNA), Sevilla, Spain. Yeast cells were grown at 30°C in yeast extract peptone dextrose medium (1% yeast extract, 2% peptone, 2% glucose) or synthetic dextrose medium (0.67% yeast nitrogen base, 2% glucose) with appropriate amino acid supplements as indicated. Yeast was transformed by a standard Li–polyethylene glycol method. For induction of gene expression under control of the GAL1 promoter, 2% glucose was replaced by 2% galactose in the growth media. Na+- and Li+-tolerance tests were performed in arginine phosphate medium, which was essentially free of alkali cations. For spot assays, aliquots (4 μl) from an exponentially growing culture (OD600 = 0.5) and serial dilutions (1:10, 1:100, 1:1000) were spotted onto APG plates with or without NaCl, KCl, LiCl or HygB. Plates were incubated at 28°C for 2–4 days. An approximately 660-bp-long DNA fragment upstream of the ATG start codon was amplified by PCR using the following primers: S1B PF: 5′-CCCAAGCTTGAATGATGTTACACGAGACCAAGTT-3′ (added HindIII site); and S1B PR: 5′-AAGGATCCCTCCGGTAGAAAGAAGCAAACGATC-3′ (added BamHI site). Amplified DNA products were ligated via the attached BamHI/HindIII sites into the binary vector pCAMBIA1391 to obtain a transcriptional fusion of the AtNHX8 promoter and the β-glucuronidase coding sequence. Transgenic seedlings were generated as described above, and were identified on sterile agar medium containing hygromycin. For the β-glucuronidase assay, materials were stained at 37°C overnight in 1 mg ml−1 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-glucuronic acid, 5 mm potassium ferricyanide, 5 mm potassium ferrocyanide, 0.03% Triton X-100 and 0.1 m sodium phosphate buffer pH 7.0. Thirty independent 35S-AtNHX8–EGFP transgenic lines were generated and used for localization of the fusion protein. Confocal microscope images were taken using a Leica confocal laser microscope under a ×40 oil objective. The excitation wavelength for EGFP detection was 488 nm. The young roots of kanamycin-resistant seedlings from transgenic plants containing the 35S–EGFP and 35S–AtNHX8–EGFP fusion protein were used for direct confocal microscope analysis. To measure Li+ and K+ accumulation, plants were grown for 2 weeks on MS agar plates (pH 5.7), then transferred to the same medium supplemented with a range of concentrations of LiCl (0, 10, 15, 20 and 30 mm). Seedlings were collected, washed five times, then dried at 80°C until constant weights were achieved (at least for 24 h). The weighed samples were dry-ashed for 6 h in quartz dishes at 570°C in a muffle furnace, digested in 2 ml 18% HCl, and diluted in 20 ml distilled water prior to ion concentration analysis. Analyses were performed using an inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrometer (ICP–AES; Perkin-Elmer http://www.perkinelmer.com). The results shown are means of 30 plants.
