!~ABS~! Plasmodesmal conductivity is regulated in part by callose turnover, which is hypothesized to be determined by β-1,3-glucan synthase versus glucanase activities. A proteomic analysis of an Arabidopsis thaliana plasmodesmata (Pd)-rich fraction identified a β-1,3-glucanase as present in this fraction. The protein encoded by the putative plasmodesmal associated protein (ppap) gene, termed AtBG_ppap, had previously been found to be a post-translationally modified glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) lipid-anchored protein. When fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP) and expressed in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) or Nicotiana benthamiana epidermal cells, this protein displays fluorescence patterns in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane system, along the cell periphery and in a punctate pattern that co-localizes with aniline blue-stained callose present around the Pd. Plasma membrane localization was verified by co-localization of AtBG_ppap:GFP together with a plasma membrane marker N-[3-triethylammoniumpropyl]-4-[p-diethylaminophenylhexatrienyl] pyridinium dibromide (FM4-64) in plasmolysed cells. In Arabidopsis T-DNA insertion mutants that do not transcribe AtBG_ppap, functional studies showed that GFP cell-to-cell movement between epidermal cells is reduced, and the conductivity coefficient of Pd is lower. Measurements of callose levels around Pd after wounding revealed that callose accumulation in the mutant plants was higher. Taken together, we suggest that AtBG_ppap is a Pd-associated membrane protein involved in plasmodesmal callose degradation, and functions in the gating of Pd.
!~RES~! Proteins in an A. thaliana Pd-enriched fraction were separated by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS–PAGE) (Figure 1). Coomassie blue-stained bands were cut, in-gel reduced, alkylated and proteolysed overnight with trypsin, and the tryptic peptides were resolved by reverse-phase chromatography on a C18 column (see Experimental procedures). Mass spectrometry was performed with ion-trap mass spectrometers operating in the positive mode, using repetition of a full MS scan followed by collision-induced dissociation (CID) of the most dominant ion selected from the first MS. The MS data were compared to simulated proteolysis and CID of the proteins in the non-redundant National Center for Biotechnology Informatic (NR-NCBI) database using the sequest software (LCQ; Thermo,http://www.thermo.com). One of the proteins identified that was present in band 7 (Figure 1) was a 45 kDa, 425 amino acid long β-1,3-glucanase (At5g42100) that was named AtBG_ppap (A. thaliana beta-1,3-glucanase_putative Pd-associated protein). Five peptides were identified leading to unique identification as At5g42100. This protein contains the glycosyl hydrolase 17 domain (pfam00332) between amino acids 27 and 346 (CD search http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Structure/cdd/wrpsb.cgi; CITATION). The sosui computer program (http://sosui.proteome.bio.tuat.ac.jp/sosuiframe0E.html; CITATION) predicts that the protein contains two transmembrane regions between amino acids 9 and 31 and between amino acids 407 and 422. According to the SignalP program (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/SignalP; CITATION), the protein contains an N-terminal signal peptide, with a cleavage site between amino acids 26 and 27. [[FIGURE]] Three different computer programs predict that AtBG_ppap has the essential characteristics to become glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-modified: big PI plant predictor (http://mendel.imp.univie.ac.at/sat/gpi/plant_server.html; CITATION); DGPI (http://129.194.185.165/dgpi/index_en.html; D. Buloz and J. Kronegg, University of Geneva, unpublished data) and GPI-SOM (http://gpi.unibe.ch; CITATION). This feature was recently confirmed experimentally by cleavage of the GPI anchor with phospholipases C and D (Elortza et al., 2003, 2006; ). The AtBG_ppap gene (Accession number: NM_123575) contains two exons and one intron (Figure 2). Exon 1 is 1209 bp long (403 amino acids) and ends immediately after the predicted GPI ω site (the site of the C-terminal peptide cleavage), which is amino acid 401 (nucleotide 1203). The intron is 431 bp long, and the second exon, which contains the C-terminal signal, is 69 nucleotides long (23 amino acids). The resulting spliced coding sequence is 1278 bp, which encodes a protein containing 425 amino acids. A second version of the protein results from retention of the intron, which contains a stop codon 63 nucleotides after its beginning, resulting in a 1272 bp coding sequence (Accession number: NM_203139) and a 423 amino acid protein. This alternatively spliced protein, which was entitled AtBG_ppapas, was not found to be GPI-anchored by the big-PI Plant Predictor, while both the DGPI and GPI-SOM programs predicted that it has the essential characteristics to become GPI-modified (Figure 2). [[FIGURE]] Quantitative measurements of AtBG_ppap transcript levels in the Arabidopsis tissues using real-time RT-PCR revealed that the gene is not expressed equally in the different tissues (Figure 3). The transcription level of AtBG_ppap was the highest in flowers and siliques. In stem, rosette leaves and cauline leaves, transcript accumulation was considerably lower than in flowers and siliques. In roots, levels were negligible compared with the flowers and siliques (a 34-cycle RT-PCR confirmed that the gene is transcribed in all tissues, including roots; data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Quantitative measurement of the alternatively spliced version of AtBG_ppap (AtBG_ppapas) showed that transcript accumulation was a few orders of magnitude lower than the AtBG_ppap form (data not shown). We therefore focused our research on the normally spliced form of AtBG_ppap, and cautiously suggest that the presence of AtBG_ppapas results from a low efficiency of normal splicing rather than a regulated process of any biological significance, a well-known phenomenon in plants (CITATION). However, more experiments are required to confirm this assumption. In order to verify plasmodesmal localization of AtBG_ppap, a fusion between the protein and GFP was created. As AtBG_ppap is a GPI-anchored protein and both the N- and C-terminal ends of its preprotein are removed, it was necessary to create a fusion protein with GFP within regions that remain after N- and C-processing. The coding sequence for GFP was thus inserted within the AtBG_ppap coding sequence immediately after amino acid 384, which is localized 17 amino acids before the ω site (Figure 2). This region into which the GFP was inserted is described as a ‘disordered/unstructured’ and ‘low complexity’ region by the SMART program (http://smart.embl-heidelberg.de; CITATION), and is suspected to serve as a linker between the active glucanase domain and the GPI anchor. AtBG_ppap:GFP was expressed transiently in Nicotiana benthamiana source leaves by microprojectile bombardment (Figure 4a) and stably in Nicotiana tabacum by Agrobacterium transformation (Figure 4b). In both cases, the fusion protein appeared along the entire periphery of epidermal leaf cells, and in a punctate pattern (Figure 4a,b) or as pairs of fluorescent foci on opposite sides of the cell wall (enlarged boxes in Figure 4b), a pattern characteristic of Pd. Spongy mesophyll cells have regions with no cell–cell contact, where walls face an intercellular space and are devoid of Pd, and regions with cell–cell contact, where walls contain Pd. AtBG_ppap:GFP fluorescence was almost undetected within cell wall regions where there is no cell–cell contact (Figure 4c,d). This differential labeling of walls further indicates that AtBG_ppap:GFP is associated with Pd or with the wall sheath surrounding Pd. [[FIGURE]] To verify that the AtBG_ppap:GFP fluorescence foci inside cell walls indeed represent Pd, we stained callose using aniline blue. Callose has been widely used as a plasmodesmal marker (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION and more). When transgenic tobacco source leaves expressing AtBG_ppap:GFP were stained by aniline blue, AtBG_ppap:GFP co-localized with the aniline blue-stained callose present around Pd (Figure 5). Control experiments verified that no GFP fluorescence is seen under aniline blue conditions and no aniline blue fluorescence is seen under GFP conditions. [[FIGURE]] As AtBG_ppap is a GPI-anchored protein, it is expected to target both the ER and the plasma membrane (CITATION). Indeed, when AtBG_ppap:GFP is transiently expressed by Agrobacterium leaf injection, it can be seen to accumulate in ER membranes (Figure 6a). Likewise, as predicted, AtBG_ppap:GFP also localizes to the plasma membrane. AtBG_ppap:GFP transgenic leaves were stained with FM4-64 (N-[3-triethylammoniumpropyl]-4-[p-diethylaminophenylhexatrienyl] pyridinium dibromide), a plasma membrane marker (CITATION), and cells were plasmolysed. Following plasmolysis, AtBG_ppap:GFP could be seen to recede from the cell wall along with the FM4-64 fluorescently stained plasma membrane (Figure 6b–e). [[FIGURE]] It is hypothesized that non-selective plasmodesmal conductivity is a function of the steady-state level of callose accumulation in the wall sleeve surrounding Pd, and that this steady-state level is the net result of glucanase versus synthase activities (CITATION). Assuming no change in callose synthase activity, a lower β-1,3-glucanase activity in the Pd is expected to increase callose levels and reduce cell-to-cell transport. To test this hypothesis, we measured the diffusion of GFP between leaf epidermal cells in wild-type and AtBG_ppap knockout mutants. As GFP movement between cells is diffusive (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), it is expected that, in AtBG_ppap knockout mutant plants, there will be less callose hydrolysis, resulting in a narrowing of the cytoplasmic sleeve and hence a slower diffusion of GFP. Two independent Arabidopsis lines carrying a T-DNA insertion that disrupts the AtBG_ppap locus (SALK_019116.47.55.x, CITATION; SAIL_115_G04, CITATION) were employed to test this hypothesis. PCR analysis and sequencing of the two T-DNA lines established that the insertion in SALK_019116.47.55.x disrupted the gene at 344 bp downstream of the ATG start codon, and that the insertion in SAIL_115_G04 is located 625 bp from the ATG start (Figure 7a; data not shown). Plants of the two lines, homozygous for the insertion, do not transcribe AtBG_ppap RNA, as determined by RT-PCR (Figure 7b). Epidermal cells of vegetative wild-type and mutant leaves were transfected with pGFP by microprojectile bombardment of gold particles, a method that wounds the leaf and induces callose formation (CITATION). Forty-eight hours postbombardment, the number of the cells in a cluster created by GFP movement was analyzed by scanning the epidermal cells using a confocal laser scanning microscope (CLSM; see Experimental procedures). The cells counted are those showing green fluorescence in the nucleus and the cytoplasm (Figure 8). A box-plot analysis, comparing the sizes of the GFP clusters in leaves of wild-type and knockout mutants, shows that, in wild-type plants, the diffusion of GFP is more extensive (Figure 8). A one-way anova analysis revealed no statistical difference between SALK and SAIL mutants (P = 0.949), but showed a statistically significant difference between the mutants and wild-type (P < 0.05). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In a second analysis, the exponential decay parameter β and the coefficient of conductivity of Pd, C(Pd), were calculated for GFP spread in vegetative leaves of the wild-type and AtBG_ppap knockout mutants, according to the protocol described by CITATION (Table 1). The GFPC (Pd) value in wild-type plants was found to be higher than the GFPC (Pd) value in the SALK and SAIL mutants (0.70, 0.59 and 0.52, respectively). A one-way anova of β showed no difference between the SALK and SAIL mutants, but showed a statistically significant difference between the mutants and the wild-type (P < 0.05). The results suggest that the conductivity of Pd is downregulated in AtBG_ppap-deficient mutants. aAverage decay parameter β, also termed impedance, which describes the slope of the gradient formed by differences in plasmodesmal conductivity. bSE, SEM β value. cThe coefficient of conductivity of plasmodesmata for the cell-to-cell spread of GFP, calculated as −1/mean β value. dThe number in parentheses is the number of cells analyzed. To test whether the decreased cell-to-cell movement of GFP results from increased callose accumulation in Pd, we examined the amount of Pd callose in the epidermis of Arabidopsis vegetative source leaves 2 days after wounding, employing an aniline blue fluorescence assay. Quantification of 1487 fluorescent sites in AtBG_ppap-deficient mutants and 779 fluorescent sites in wild-type plants revealed that callose accumulation was 45% higher in AtBG_ppap mutants (Figure 9). An independent-samples t test showed the results to be significantly different at P < 0.001. Although the background levels varied between repeats with different leaves, the net intensity in the Pd was the same. These results are in agreement with the hypothesized role of callose in regulating Pd function, and support the hypothesis AtBG_ppap functions as a plasmodesmal protein. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Nicotiana benthamiana and N. tabacum cv. Samson plants were grown in 10 cm pots in a mix of equal volumes of potting mixture and vermiculite (Pecka Hipper Gan, Rehovot, Israel) at 25°C under long-day conditions (16 h light/8 h dark cycles). Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia plants were grown in potting mixture in 6 cm pots at 22°C under long-day conditions. For measurement of callose levels, plants were grown under short-day conditions (8 h light/16 h dark). Four- to six-week-old A. thaliana cry2 mutants grown under long-day conditions were harvested and stored at −80°C. The late-flowering cry2 mutant was used in order to obtain a maximum amount of plant material. Plants were pulverized in liquid nitrogen, and homogenized with 2 ml g−1 tissue of buffer A (0.25 m sucrose, 4 mm EDTA, 10 mm EGTA, 20 mm Tris/HCl, pH 8.5, 0.02% azide) containing a cocktail of protease inhibitors [1.5 μm aprotonin, 0.01 units/mlα2-macroglobulin, 2 mm phenylmethyl-sulfonyl fluoride (PMSF) (Roche, Mannheim, Germany), 42 μm leupeptine, 14.5 μm pepstatine (Sigma-Aldrich, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/), 2.5 mm 1.10 orthophenantroline (Merck, http://www.merck.de) and 14 μm E64 (Fluka, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/Brands/Fluka_Riedel_Home.html)]. The homogenate was filtered through a 16 μm nylon cloth, and the wall fraction (WF) retained on the nylon filter was re-homogenized with 2 ml g−1 (starting tissue) of buffer B (0.25 m sucrose, 2 mm EDTA, 10 mm EGTA, 20 mm Tris/HCl, pH 7.5, 0.02% azide) and protease inhibitors as above. The homogenate was re-filtered through a 5 μm nylon cloth, and the WF was re-suspended with 2 ml g−1 tissue of buffer B and protease inhibitors as above. The WF kept at 0–4°C was sonicated (560 W and a 0.5 inch flat tip) for 10–15 min, with 5 sec on/5 sec off pulses. The WF was then centrifuged at 10 000 g for 2 min at 4°C, and the wall pellet was resuspended with buffer B containing PMSF and 1.10 orthophenantroline proteases at the concentrations above. Sonication was repeated, and the WF was pelleted at 1000 g for 2 min, the supernatant discarded and the pellet compacted at 10 000 g for 1 min, and supernatants discarded. The WF was resuspended and resonicated three or four additional times as described for the second sonication, until no green supernatant was observed and the wall pellet was a grayish color. After the fourth sonication, the suspension was filtered through a plastic kitchen sieve to remove large unbroken pieces of wall (mainly vascular tissue). After the last sonication and centrifugation, the pellet was re-suspended in two volumes of buffer B without proteases and filtered through a 5 μm nylon cloth. The WF captured on the nylon filter was then centrifuged at 10 000 g for 1 min to compact the wall, and stored at −80°C. All procedures were performed at 4°C. Cellulase preparation. Digestion buffer (10 mm MES, pH 5.5, 4.4% mannitol, 0.02% azide) was warmed to 55°C, and 0.6% w/v of Cellulase R10 (Karlan http://www.karlan.com) was added and stirred until dissolved. The mixture was heated at 55°C for 5 min, filtered through 6 μm nylon cloth and cooled to 4°C. Protease inhibitors were added as described above for cell wall preparation, and the solution was centrifuged (75 600 g for 40 min at 4°C) to clear the solution of any particulate matter. Wall digestion. WF was washed in 1 ml g−1 (fresh tissue) of digestion buffer, and centrifuged at 8000 g for 1 min at 4°C. The washed wall was then re-suspended in 1 ml g−1 (fresh tissue) of heat-cured cellulase solution (the enzyme solution was prewarmed to 37°C) and vortexed until no clumps were visible. The solution was homogenized using a Teflon glass homogenizer, transferred to an Erlenmeyer flask and gently shaken in a rotary shaker (100 r.p.m.) at 37°C for 1.5 h. The solution was then centrifuged at 5860 g for 5 min at 4°C. Both the supernatant and the pellet were collected separately. The supernatant (Sup I) was adjusted to pH 7 with 18 μl ml−1 1 m Tris, pH 8. The pellet was resuspended in 1 ml g−1 tissue of MMA buffer (10 mm 3-[N-morpholino] propane-sulfonic acid [MOPS], pH 7.5, 4.4% mannitol, 0.02% azide), homogenized and centrifuged as before (5860 g, 5 min, 4°C), and the supernatant collected (Sup II). Sup I and Sup II were combined and filtered through a 6 μm nylon cloth, and the filtered supernatant was centrifuged at 75 600 g for 40 min. The pellet was resuspended in 100 μl g−1 (fresh tissue equivalent) of MOPS washing buffer (10 mm MOPS, pH 7.5, 0.02% azide) using a Teflon glass homogenizer, and centrifuged twice at 7 000 g for 5 min at 4°C in Corex tubes. The supernatant containing Pd was then centrifuged at 75 600 g for 40 min at 4°C and the supernatant was discarded. The compacted Pd pellet was stored at −80°C. The Pd fraction (equivalent of 50 g plant tissue) was dissolved in 50 μl dissolving buffer (9 m urea, 40 mm Tris, 2% SDS, 50 mm DTT and 20% glycerol). The sample was incubated at room temperature for at least 1 h and separated by one-dimensional SDS–PAGE on a 12.5% gel. Gels were stained with PhastGelTM BlueR (Amersham Pharmacia, http://www.amershambiosciences.com) solution for 1 h on a rotary shaker (25 r.p.m.). Mild distaining was carried out with 7% acetic acid in 5% methanol. Several changes of distaining solution were required till the background was cleared. Bands were excised from the gel and used for protein sequencing. Coomassie blue-stained bands were cut and in-gel reduced with 10 mm DTT, incubated at 60°C for 30 min, alkylated with 10 mm iodoacetamide at room temperature for 30 min, and proteolysed with trypsin overnight at 37°C, using modified trypsin (Promega, http://www.promega.com/) at a 1:100 enzyme-to-substrate ratio. The tryptic peptides were resolved by reverse-phase chromatography on a 1 × 150 mm C18 column (Vydac, http://www.vydac.com). The peptides were eluted using linear 80 min gradients from 5% to 95% acetonitrile containing 0.1% acetic acid. Mass spectrometry was performed wusing ion-trap mass spectrometers (LCQ; Thermo) operating in the positive mode using repetition of a full MS scan followed by CID of the most dominant ion selected from the first MS. The MS data ware compared to simulated proteolysis and CID of the proteins in the NR-NCBI database using sequest software (LCQ; Thermo). Source rosette leaves and stems were cut from newly flowering Arabidopsis plants, while cauline leaves, roots, flowers and siliques were cut from fully flowering plants. For each organ type, two samples were collected, with two repeats, and stored at 80°C. RNA was purified from 50–100 mg frozen tissue using the SV total RNA isolation system kit according to manufacturer's instructions (Promega). cDNA first-strand synthesis was performed as previously described (CITATION). AtBG_ppap and Ubiquitin10 coding sequences were amplified by PCR reactions using specific primers: for AtBG_ppap, forward primer 5′-CCGATAACCATGGCTTCTTCTTCTCTGCAGTC-3′ and reverse primer 5′-CTATCATCCTAGGTTACAACCGAAGCTTGATGATGCAAAG-3′; for Ubiquitin10, forward primer 5′-CGATTACTCTTGAGGTGGAG-3′ and reverse 5′-AGACCAAGTGAAGTGTGGAC-3′. AtBG_ppap was amplified using the following program: 1 cycle of 95°C for 2 min, followed by 33 cycles of 94°C for 15 sec, 58°C for 30 sec and 72°C for 1 min, and a final elongation step of 4 min at 72°C. Ubiquitin10 was amplified using the following program: 1 cycle of 95°C for 4 min, followed by 35 cycles of 94°C for 20 sec, 55°C for 30 sec and 72°C for 30 sec, and a final elongation step of 5 min at 72°C. Real-time RT-PCR of AtBG_ppap was performed in a fluorescence temperature cycler (LightCycler; Roche, http://www.roche.com), using actin 2 + 8gene primers for normalization. cDNA corresponding to 50 ng of RNA served as a template in a 10 μl reaction containing 5 pm gene-specific primers and 5 μl of QuantiTect SYBR green PCR mix (Qiagen, http://www.qiagen.com/). The samples were loaded into capillary tubes and incubated in the fluorescence thermocycler (LightCycler) for an initial denaturation of 15 min at 95°C. The PCR reaction for AtBG_ppap consisted of 45 cycles of 15 sec at 95°C, 20 sec at 55°C, 23 sec at 72°C and 5 sec at 82°C for measurement of SYBR Green fluorescence. The reaction for actin 2 + 8 consisted of 45 cycles of 15 sec at 95°C, 20 sec at 55°C and 12 sec at 72°C. The actin 2 + 8 SYBR Green fluorescence was measured at the end of each cycle. The amplification of specific transcripts was confirmed by producing melting curve profiles at the end of each run and subjecting the amplification products to electrophoresis on an agarose gel. The primers used for AtBG_ppap were: forward 5′-CCCCAAACACGTTTCT-3′ and reverse 5′-CGTATAGGCGTCCTCA-3′, and those for actin were: forward 5′-GGTAACATTGTGCTCAGTGGTGG-3′ and reverse 5′-AACGACCTTAATCTTCATGCTGC-3′. For the expression of AtBG_ppap in plants, we used the pRTL2/newGFPm (pGFP-MRC) plasmid (CITATION). Because AtBG_ppap is a GPI-anchored protein, and both its N- and C-terminal ends are cleaved post-translationally, its coding sequence was divided into two parts, 1–1152 (Glu-N′) and 1153–1278 (Glu-C′), which were cloned at both sides of the GFP (Figure 2). Glu-C′ was PCR-amplified using forward primer 5′-CATTAGTGAGCTCTATCAGCCAGTCACGGGTAACC-3′ containing a SacI site, and reverse primer 5′-CTATCATCCTAGGTTACAACCGAAGCTTGATGATGCAAAG-3′ containing an AvrII site, and cloned between the SacI and XbaI sites in pGFP-MRC, in-frame with GFP at its 3′ end (XbaI and AvrII generate the same 5′ protruding end). Glu-N′ was PCR-amplified using forward primer 5′-CCGATAACCATGGCTTCTTCTTCTCTGCAGTC-3′ and reverse primer 5′-CGAATTACCATGGAGATGCCACCACCGCTGGA-3′, both containing a NcoI site, and cloned in-frame into the unique NcoI site present at the 5′ beginning of the GFP coding sequence. For expression in plants, the plasmid was digested using SphI, and the resulting cassette, containing the CaMV 35S promoter, AtBG_ppap fused to GFP, and the nos transcriptional terminator, was purified from the agarose gel and its protruding 3′ ends cleaved with T4 polymerase (Fermentas, http://www.fermentas.com) to give blunt ends. This cassette was subcloned into the SmaI site in pCAMBIA 2300 (CAMBIA, http://www.cambia.org) to create plasmid pCambiaAtBG_ppap:GFP. Stable expression of pCambiaAtBG_ppap:GFP in N. tabacum cv. Samson plants using a modified leaf disk method, and transient expression of pCambiaAtBG_ppap:GFP in Nicotiana benthamiana plants using Agrobacterium tumefaciens leaf injection were both performed as described by CITATION. Particle bombardment of pCambiaAtBG_ppap:GFP into vegetative N. benthamiana source leaves was performed as described below. Plasma membrane staining was performed by incubating 7 × 3 mm pieces of AtBG_ppap:GFP transgenic source leaves in 1:500 diluted N-[3-triethylammoniumpropyl]-4-[p-diethylaminophenylhexatrienyl] pyridinium dibromide (FM4-64; Molecular Probes, http://www.probes.invitrogen.com) in double-distilled water, for 1.5 h. For plasmolysis, the FM4-64-stained leaf discs were transferred to 0.75 m mannitol solution, and incubated for 10 min. Plasmolysis was determined by monitoring the retraction of FM4-64-stained plasma membrane from the cell wall. Arabidopsis T-DNA insertion lines (SALK_019116.47.55.x and SAIL_115_G04) were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center, Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA. The presence and location of each T-DNA insertion were determined by PCR analysis using primers for the left border of the insertion and the gene sequence. For the SALK mutant, the left border primer LBa1 (CITATION) and the Glu-N′ forward primer (see above) were used, and for the SAIL mutant, the left border primer LB3 (CITATION) and the Glu-N′ reverse primer (see above) were used. Then, to identify homozygous plants, the Glu-N′ sequence was amplified (see above) and plants with no PCR product were selected. Verification of the homozygous plants was carried out by RT- PCR performed with leaf RNA, and PCR amplification of the AtBG_ppap coding sequence. Ubiquitin10 was used as a positive control (see above). Bombardment of GFP into leaves for GFP movement assays was performed as described by CITATION, except that source rosette leaves from 3-week-old Arabidopsis plants which had not yet bolted were used (about six leaves were placed on the agar plate for each bombardment), and 1 μm gold particles were used instead of tungsten. To determine the number of cells into which GFP diffused, cells of the lower epidermis of the leaf were analyzed 48 h postbombardment using a CLSM (LSM 510; Zeiss, http://www.zeiss.com/). For each transformed cell, GFP intensity in the nucleus was set just below saturation by setting detector gain values, in fixed laser and amplifier gain values (5% and 1 respectively). Cell clusters were analyzed after amplification by amplifier gain and by laser over a ninefold range. These amplifications were shown to be in the linear range of the instrument (CITATION). GFP movement was determined by counting the cells around the transformed cell that clearly showed fluorescence in the nucleus and the cytoplasm. Cells that synthesized GFP but showed no movement were not analyzed in order to avoid including seriously wounded cells. Calculation of the coefficient of conductivity of Pd was performed in Arabidopsis as described by CITATION, with modifications: instead of analyzing all first-degree cells (cells with a common cell wall with the transformed cell; also termed ‘cell 1’) and second-degree cells (cells with common cell wall with cell 1 but not with the transformed cell; also termed ‘cell 2’), the analysis was performed on four cells of each degree. The cells selected are those located above, below and on both sides of the transformed cell in the slice. The reason for this alteration was the big variety in the sizes of cells in the Arabidopsis epidermis and its disordered organization, which makes the identification of clear first- and second-degrees cells difficult. One-way anova and box-plot analyses were performed using spss 12.0.1 statistical software (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA). Callose staining for co-localization of AtBG_ppap:GFP and callose was performed by incubating AtBG_ppap:GFP transgenic tobacco source leaf segments for 15 min in a mixture of 0.1% aniline blue (Fluka, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/brands/Fluka_Riedel_home.html) in double-distilled water and 1 m glycine, pH 9.5, at a volume ratio of 2:3. For better visualization, a negative image was generated using adobephotoshop 7.0 me software, and the resulting GFP and aniline blue images were converted to red and blue, respectively, using the LSM 5 image browser (Zeiss). After wounding, callose quantification was performed by measuring aniline blue fluorescence intensity. Leaves of wild-type and T-DNA insertion mutant plants (SALK_019116.47.55.x; see above) were grown for 2 months under short-day conditions to prevent flowering and allow continuing leaf growth. Five leaf discs from two plants were analyzed for each experiment. Leaf sections of 7 × 3 mm were cut, placed on a 1% agar Petri dish for 2 days, and then immersed in 85% ethanol overnight until bleached, and transferred to aniline blue solution (see above) for 5 h. Aniline blue fluorescence was viewed and photographed under UV conditions in a DMRBE fluorescence light microscope (Leica, http://www.leica.com). Pictures were taken randomly from the center of the leaf; when a vein was present, the area next to the vein was photographed due to its strong background. Fluorescence intensity analysis of aniline blue in the Pd was performed under non-saturation excitation levels (exposure time 0.5 sec) using the image processing software imagej version 1.31 (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij). Callose fluorescence intensity associated with Pd was determined by subtracting the minimum fluorescence value in the area adjacent to the Pd (background) from the maximum fluorescent value of the Pd foci (Figure 9). A statistical independent samples t test was performed using the spss 12.0.1 statistical software. Fluorescence microscopy. Fluorescence was viewed with a DMRBE fluorescence light microscope (Leica); aniline blue-stained callose fluorescence was measured with a band-pass 340–380 nm excitation filter, an RKP 400 dichromatic mirror, and a long-pass 425 nm emission filter; GFP fluorescence was viewed with a band-pass 450–490 nm excitation filter, an RKP 510 dichromatic mirror, and a band-pass 515–560 nm emission filter (Leica). Confocal fluorescence microscopy. Fluorescence was viewed with a CLSM (LSM 510; Zeiss). GFP fluorescence was excited with a 488 nm argon laser, and emission was detected with a 505–530 nm band-pass filter combination. FM4-64 fluorescence was excited with a 514 nm argon laser, and emission was detected with a 585 nm long-pass filter combination. To expose spongy mesophyll for imaging, leaves were torn by hand so that the epidermis at the lower face of leaf sections was peeled off.
