!~ABS~! Animal and yeast nucleolin function as global regulators of ribosome synthesis, and their expression is tightly linked to cell proliferation. Although Arabidopsis contains two genes for nucleolin, AtNuc-L1 is the predominant if not only form of the protein found in most tissues, and GFP–AtNuc-L1 fusion proteins were targeted to the nucleolus. Expression of AtNuc-L1 was strongly induced by sucrose or glucose but not by non-metabolizable mannitol or 2-deoxyglucose. Sucrose also caused enhanced expression of genes for subunits of C/D and H/ACA small nucleolar ribonucleoproteins, as well as a large number of genes for ribosomal proteins (RPs), suggesting that carbohydrate availability regulates de novo ribosome synthesis. In sugar-starved cells, induction of AtNuc-L1 occurred with 10 mm glucose, which seemed to be a prerequisite for resumption of growth. Disruption of AtNuc-L1 caused an increased steady-state level of pre-rRNA relative to mature 25S rRNA, and resulted in various phenotypes that overlap those reported for several RP gene mutants, including a reduced growth rate, prolonged lifetime, bushy growth, pointed leaf, and defective vascular patterns and pod development. These results suggest that the rate of ribosome synthesis in the meristem has a strong impact not only on the growth but also the structure of plants. The AtNuc-L1 disruptant exhibited significantly reduced sugar-induced expression of RP genes, suggesting that AtNuc-L1 is involved in the sugar-inducible expression of RP genes.
!~RES~! Of the sugar-induced genes that we identified by microarray analysis, a gene encoding nucleolin (At1g48920) was one of the most strongly induced by Suc within 6 h. This gene encodes a protein with structural similarities to Nsr1 of Saccharomyces cerevisiae (CITATION) and Gar2 of Schizosaccharomyces pombe (CITATION), as well as nucleolins from alfalfa (CITATION) and pea (CITATION). The Arabidopsis genome also contains another gene for nucleolin, At3g18610. The proteins encoded by At1g48920 and At3g18610 are identical with AtNuc-L1 and AtNuc-L2, respectively, described previously (CITATION). The AtNuc-L1 and AtNuc-L2 genes are located on segment 1, a large duplicated segment between chromosomes 1 and 3, respectively (CITATION). Although both AtNuc-L1 and AtNuc-L2 contain two RRMs, the AtNuc-L1 gene is interrupted by 14 introns (Figure 1a), whereas the AtNuc-L2 gene contains 17 introns. AtNuc-L1 mRNA was detected in various organs of Col plants by RT-PCR (Figure 1b). In contrast, little AtNuc-L2 mRNA was detected in organs other than flower buds. [[FIGURE]] Genes encoding fusion proteins with GFP at either the C-terminus (AtNuc-L1–GFP) or N-terminus (GFP–AtNuc-L1) of AtNuc-L1 were placed downstream of the CaMV 35S promoter and used to generate stably transformed tobacco BY-2 cells (CITATION). In cells expressing AtNuc-L1–GFP or GFP–AtNuc-L1, strong fluorescent GFP signals were detected in nucleoli and absent from the cytoplasm (Figure 1c). Weak GFP fluorescence was also detected in the nucleoplasm, where fluorescence occasionally appeared as spots. In contrast, signals were absent in nucleoli of cells expressing free GFP. In roots of Arabidopsis plants transformed with these fusion genes, strong GFP fluorescence appeared in nucleoli (Figure 1d). Figure 2(a) shows the time course of changes in the level of AtNuc-L1 mRNA after treatment of leaves of Arabidopsis Col seedlings with 175 mm (6% w/v) Suc or H2O in the dark. The level of AtNuc-L1 mRNA started to increase after 1 h of Suc treatment, and reached a maximum after 6 h, whereas it did not change after treatment with H2O. A 6 h treatment with 146 mm Glc also caused an increase in the level of AtNuc-L1 mRNA (Figure 2b); however, non-metabolizable 3-O-methyl-d-glucose and 2-deoxy-d-glucose, as well as 146 mm mannitol and 50 μm ABA, were ineffective in inducing AtNuc-L1 mRNA. Similar results were obtained by treatment of seedlings with sugars. Trehalose metabolism plays important roles in sugar sensing and plant development (CITATION). Neither germination of seeds on medium containing trehalose nor treatment of seedlings with trehalose affected the level of AtNuc-L1 mRNA. Under the conditions employed, trehalose induced ApL3 mRNA for starch synthesis as reported previously (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] We also examined the expression of AtNuc-L1 in suspension-cultured Arabidopsis T87 cells (CITATION). Exponentially growing cells were starved of sugars for 24 h, after which the cells were cultured in medium containing various concentrations of Glc for 6 h. As shown in Figure 2(c), 10 mm Glc resulted in induction of a nearly maximal level of AtNuc-L1 mRNA but did not affect the level of ACT2 mRNA. For sugar-starved cells, 10 mm Glc was sufficient to induce the resumption of growth, but the growth rates were higher at 50 and 100 mm Glc (Figure 2d). Animal and yeast nucleolin are involved in correct modification and processing of pre-rRNA (reviewed by CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The site-specific cleavage and base pseudo-uridylation of pre-rRNA is mediated by the H/ACA small nucleolar ribonucleoprotein (snoRNP) complex, which contains, in the case of yeast S. cerevisiae, Gar1, Nap57, Nhp2, Nop10 and snoRNAs, while the site-specific cleavage and 2′-O-methylation of pre-rRNA requires C/D snoRNP, which is composed of Nop1 (fibrillarin), Nop58, Nop56, Snu13 and snoRNAs (reviewed by CITATION; CITATION). If sugar-induced expression of AtNuc-L1 plays a role in the enhanced processing and base modification of pre-rRNA, the expression of genes for the subunits of H/ACA and C/D snoRNPs should also be upregulated by sugar. Among the subunits of H/ACA snoRNP, an Arabidopsis homolog of Nap57 has been characterized (CITATION). The predicted Arabidopsis gene (At3g03920) encodes a 202 amino acid Gar1-like protein that has 65% amino acid identity with the 205 amino acid Gar1 protein. In addition, At5g18180 is also predicted to encode a 189 amino acid protein that has 50% amino acid identity with Gar1. The predicted gene At5g08180 encodes a 156 amino acid protein that has 42% amino acid identity with the 173 amino acid Nhp2 protein, while At2g20490 is predicted to encode a 64 amino acid protein that has 58% amino acid identity with Nop10. Furthermore, the Arabidopsis genome includes two genes for fibrillarin, AtFib1and AtFib2 (CITATION; CITATION). Although a third gene, AtFib3, can encode a protein that has 67% identity with AtFib1 and AtFib2, this gene does not appear to be expressed. Two predicted genes, At3g05060 and At5g27120, are predicted to encode 533 amino acid proteins that have 55% identities with the 511 amino acid protein Nop58. Similarly, two predicted genes, At3g12860 and At1g56110, encode proteins of 477 and 522 amino acids, respectively, both of which share approximately 52% identity with the 504 amino acid Nop56. The Arabidopsis genome also contains three putative genes (At5g20160, At4g22380, and At4g12600) that encode 128 amino acid proteins that share 66% identity with the 126 amino acid Snu13. We examined our microarray data to determine whether sugar induces the expression of genes encoding subunits of the H/ACA and C/D snoRNP complexes. In these analyses, we analyzed three independently isolated pairs of RNA samples from Col seedlings that had been treated with 5% Suc or H2O for 6 h in the dark using Agilent Arabidopsis-1 and -2 oligo microarrays. For each pair of RNAs, the array data after dye swapping of Cy3 and Cy5 labeling were averaged. The results from two representative arrays are shown in Figure 3(a). Among the predicted genes analyzed, AtNuc-L2 and AtNop56-2 (At1g56110) did not give significant signals. One of the two genes for Gar1-like protein, At5g18180, and AtFib3 showed signals that did not vary between Suc- and H2O-treated plants. However, all the other genes showed Suc-induced increases in the mRNA level. In addition to AtNuc-L1, Suc caused an approximately 10-fold increase in the level of AtFib2 mRNA. Other genes showed 1.8–5.5-fold increases by Suc treatment. To confirm the microarray data, we examined the levels of several mRNAs by quantitative real-time RT-PCR. In addition to an 11-fold induction of AtNuc-L1 mRNA by Suc, the levels of mRNAs for AtNap57, AtNhp2 and AtNop10 were 3–10-fold higher in seedlings treated with Suc than those treated with H2O (Figure 3b). In contrast to genes encoding subunits of H/ACA and C/D snoRNP complexes, Suc did not increase the mRNA levels for the 14 putative genes encoding the subunits of U1, U2, U4/U6 and U5 snRNP complexes, which are involved in intron splicing of pre-mRNAs. [[FIGURE]] To determine whether the induction of AtNuc-L1 mRNA by sugar is accompanied by an increase in the level of protein, we extracted proteins from seedlings that had been treated with 5% Suc or H2O for 24 h and analyzed them by immunoblotting with an anti-AtNuc-L1 antibody (CITATION). The anti-AtNuc-L1 antibody reacted with an approximately 78 kDa polypeptide, which is larger than the expected molecular mass of 58.8 kDa (Figure 3c). In addition, the antibody revealed a weaker band of approximately 140 kDa. The intensities of both bands were stronger in extracts from Suc-treated seedlings than those from H2O-treated seedlings. We also examined levels of fibrillarin using an anti-AtFib antibody (CITATION) and those of the putative Nop58 protein using an antibody against a tobacco homolog of Nop58 (NtMARBP61; CITATION). The anti-AtFib antibody detected a single band with an apparent molecular mass of 32 kDa. Despite the induction of AtFib1 and AtFib2 mRNAs by Suc, the intensity of this 32 kDa band did not differ between the H2O- and Suc-treated seedlings. The anti-NtMARBP61 antibody reacted with a single band with an apparent molecular mass of 58 kDa that appeared to be increased in the Suc-treated plants. We searched for T-DNA insertion lines of AtNuc-L1 in the Kazusa T-DNA tag-line collection by PCR screening of pooled chromosomal DNA, and identified a line in which T-DNA was inserted in the second intron (Figure 1a). In this ΔAtNuc-L1-1 mutant in the Col background, we detected neither AtNuc-L1 mRNA by RT-PCR (Figure 4a) nor AtNuc-L1 protein by immunoblotting with an anti-AtNuc-L1 antibody (Figure 4b). [[FIGURE]] The 45S pre-rRNA contains a 5′ external transcribed sequence (ETS), internal transcribed sequences 1 and 2 (ITS1 and ITS2), and a 3′ ETS, which are removed during a complex series of maturation steps (reviewed by CITATION). To examine the effects of AtNuc-L1 deficiency on the processing of 45S pre-rRNA, we compared the levels of corresponding RNA sequences between Col and ΔAtNuc-L1-1 plants by real-time RT-PCR using primers specific to various regions of the 45S pre-rRNA (Figure 4c). To quantify ETS and ITS sequences, 1 μg of RNA was used as a template for the first-strand cDNA synthesis, whereas 0.2 ng of RNA was used for quantification of mature rRNA sequences. We normalized the signal values for each PCR product against the values for 25S rRNA and then compared the relative values for Col and ΔAtNuc-L1-1 plants. We found that the relative levels of the 5′ ETS, ITS1, ITS2 and 3′ ETS sequences were 1.7–4-fold higher in ΔAtNuc-L1-1 plants than in Col plants (Figure 4c), suggesting that the steady-state level of pre-rRNA relative to mature 25S rRNA is higher in ΔAtNuc-L1-1 than in Col plants. The ΔAtNuc-L1-1 plants showed various growth and developmental phenotypes. The growth of roots of ΔAtNuc-L1-1 germinated on vertically placed agar plates was 60–80% slower than that of Col seedlings (Figure 5a), and the above-ground parts of seedlings grown on agar plates were stunted (Figure 5b). The ΔAtNuc-L1-1 plants also grew more slowly than Col plants on vermiculite (Figure 5c). They often showed outgrowth of organs from axillary buds (Figure 5d), bushy growth with many stems, and a longer life duration compared with the Col plants (Figure 5e). [[FIGURE]] The leaves of young ΔAtNuc-L1-1 seedlings had a narrow pointed shape in contrast to the round shape of Col leaves (Figure 5b), and showed abnormal vascular patterns (Figure 5f). In addition to the reduced growth rate, these phenotypes are similar to those commonly observed for mutants with disruptions of RP genes, such as pointed first leaf(pfl), in which AtRPS18A (pfl1; CITATION) or AtRPS13A (pfl2; CITATION) is disrupted, Arabidopsisminute-like 1 (aml1), in which AtRPS5A is disrupted (CITATION), and short valve 1 (stv1), in which AtRPL24B is disrupted (CITATION). In addition, pods of ΔAtNuc-L1-1 plants were shorter and irregular in size and shape compared with those of Col plants (Figure 5g). Furthermore, the stalks of the ΔAtNuc-L1-1 pods were longer than those of Col pods (Figure 5g; arrowheads). A long stalk is a characteristic feature of the pods from the stv1 mutant as well as those from mutants of auxin response factors ETTIN and MONOPTEROS, which are defective in gynoecium development (CITATION). AtRPL24, encoded by STV1, is specifically involved in translation re-initiation of polycistronic mRNAs, and disruption of AtRPL24B affects the expression of ETTIN and MONOPTEROS genes, which contain upstream open reading frames in their 5′ untranslated sequences (CITATION). These results suggest that ΔAtNuc-L1-1 plants contain a reduced amount of RPs due to defective ribosome synthesis and suffer from a shortage of ribosomes in proliferating cells. Because ΔAtNuc-L1-1 plants seemed to contain a reduced amount of ribosomes and RPs, we examined the expression of RP genes in these plants. Figure 6(a) shows the scatter plots of representative microarray data for transcript levels of Col and ΔAtNuc-L1-1 seedlings treated with 5% Suc or H2O. Similar results were obtained in three independent experiments for Col plants and two independent experiments for ΔAtNuc-L1-1 plants. In Arabidopsis, each of the 80 RPs are encoded by a small family of 2–7 members (CITATION). In Figure 6(a), the 217 RP genes are indicated by pink triangles. In Col plants, the mRNA levels for 85% of the RP genes were increased more than twofold in Suc-treated plants compared with H2O-treated plants. In contrast, the mRNA level for none of the RP genes was increased more than twofold by Suc in the ΔAtNuc-L1-1 plants (Figure 6a). For example, the mRNAs for AtRPL34A, AtRPL27A, AtRPL27C, AtRPS3aA and AtRPS11A were increased two to fivefold in Col plants treated with 5% Suc compared to plants treated with H2O, whereas there was no noticeable induction by Suc in ΔAtNuc-L1-1 plants (Figure 6b-1). The signal values for RP transcripts in H2O-treated seedlings were not noticeably different between Col and ΔAtNuc-L1-1plants, suggesting that the nucleolin deficiency affected the sugar-induced increase in RP mRNAs. On average, Suc treatment caused a 2.8-fold increase in the levels of the 217 RP mRNAs in Col plants but only a 1.3-fold difference in ΔAtNuc-L1-1 plants. [[FIGURE]] Comparison of the scatter plots for Col and ΔAtNuc-L1-1 plants (Figure 6a) suggests that there was a general reduction in the magnitude of sugar-responsive changes in the mRNA level in ΔAtNuc-L1-1 plants. Nevertheless, expression of typical sugar-inducible genes such as β-amylase (Atβ-Amy; CITATION), ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase S, starch branching enzyme 2, 3-keto-acyl CoA thiolase 2 and the bZIP transcription factor ATB2 (CITATION) was not noticeably affected by the disruption of AtNuc-L1 (Figure 6b-2). Similarly, sugar repression of mRNAs for a putative β-xylosidase, peroxidase 2, glycolate oxidase, SEN1 (CITATION) and a putative peptide transporter were not noticeably affected by the disruption of AtNuc-L1-1 (Figure 6b-3). These results suggest that the reduction in sugar-inducible expression of RP genes in ΔAtNuc-L1-1 is selective.
!~MM~! Seeds of Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. (ecotype Col-0) were surface-sterilized, kept at 4°C for 3 days in sterile water, and sown on 0.3% gellan gum plates containing Murashige and Skoog medium (pH 5.7), 100 mg l−1myo-inositol, 10 mg l−1 thiamine-HCl, 1 mg l−1 nicotinic acid, 1 mg l−1 pyridoxine HCl and 2% w/v Suc. Plates were incubated in a growth chamber at 22°C under continuous light of 65 μmol m−2 sec−1. Mature leaves of the 3-week-old plants were excised with a sharp razor blade, and the cut edges of petioles were immersed in a sterile solution of sugar or water and incubated at 22°C in the dark (CITATION). Plants were also grown on vermiculite at 22°C under continuous light. Plants were watered with Hoagland's nutrient solution every week and water as needed. A primary PCR screen for a T-DNA insertion mutant of AtNuc-L1 was performed on pooled chromosomal DNA from approximately 20 000 individual lines of a collection of Arabidopsis T-DNA insertion lines (Kazusa DNA Research Institute, Kazusa, Japan) using gene-specific primers and T-DNA border primers. For genotyping of ΔAtNuc-L1-1, we carried out genomic PCR with a gene-specific PCR primer and a T-DNA right border primer (Table S1). Seeds of the homozygous T-DNA insertion line that had been back-crossed to Col twice were used for further analyses. Arabidopsis suspension-cultured cell line T87 derived from Col (CITATION), was obtained from the RIKEN Plant Cell Bank (Yokohama, Japan) and grown in GB5 medium (CITATION), pH 5.7, containing 3.3 g l−1 of Gamborg's B5 salt mixture (Wako http://www.wako-chem.co.jp), 1 ml l−1 of diluted Gamborg's vitamin solution (Sigma-Aldrich, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/), 0.5 g l−1 of 2-morpholinoethanesulfonic acid monohydrate, 1 μm 1-naphthalene acetic acid and 1.5% Suc (w/v). The 6-day-old cells were collected by centrifugation, and washed three times with fresh medium without Suc. Cells were starved of sugars for 24 h, resuspended in fresh medium containing 0, 1, 10, 50 or 100 mm Glc, and grown for 6 h before isolating RNA. The full-length cDNA for AtNuc-L1 was obtained by RT-PCR using the primer set shown in Table S1. The cDNA was cloned into pGWB5 or pGWB6 vectors containing the coding sequence for sGFP by GatewayTM cloning technology (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com/) to produce binary Ti plasmids carrying genes encoding AtNuc-L1–GFP and GFP–AtNuc-L1 fusion proteins under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter, respectively. These plasmids were used to transform tobacco BY-2 cells as described previously (CITATION). Several independent transformed calli were brought into suspension culture, and GFP fluorescence was observed using an FV500 confocal fluorescence microscope (Olympus, http://www.olympus-global.com/). The same Agrobacterium strains were used to transform Arabidopsis plants, and roots of T2 plants from several independent transformed lines were stained with propidium iodide and observed for GFP fluorescence by confocal fluorescence microscopy. Total RNA was isolated from plants or tissues using an RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen, http://www.qiagen.com) and dissolved in ribonuclease-free water. For detection of mRNAs, first-strand cDNA was synthesized from 2 μg of total RNA using oligo(dT)20 primers and Superscript III (Invitrogen) and diluted with four volumes of water. PCR was performed in a 25 μl mixture containing 2 μl of the diluted cDNA solution and 0.4 μm of each primer. The PCR reaction cycles were as follows: denaturation at 95°C for 30 sec, annealing at 60°C for 30 sec, and extension at 72°C for 30 sec. The number of cycles was optimized for each mRNA. For quantitative real-time RT-PCR, PCR was performed with iQ SYBR Green Supermix using an iCycler iQ (Bio-Rad, http://www.bio-rad.com/), and the comparative threshold cycle method was used to determine the relative levels of mRNAs, with ACT2 mRNA as an internal reference. The primer sets for AtNuc-L1, ACT2, AtNap57, AtNhp2 and AtNop10 are listed in Table S1. To examine the processing of pre-rRNA, total RNA was isolated from 3-week-old Col and ΔAtNuc-L1-1 plants. For quantification of 25S, 18S and 5.8S rRNA, cDNAs were synthesized from 200 pg of total RNA with specific primers in a 20 μl reaction, whereas 1 μg of total RNA was used for the synthesis of cDNA with specific primers for quantification of ETS and ITS sequences of pre-rRNA. Quantitative real-time RT-PCR was carried out using the primer sets listed in Table S1. Total RNAs used for microarray analyses were prepared using Trizol reagent (Invitrogen http://www.invitrogen.com) and subsequently purified using an RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen). Cy3- and Cy5-labeled cDNA probes were synthesized and hybridized to the Agilent Arabidopsis-1 and -2 oligo microarrays (Agilent Technologies http://www.home.agilent.com) according to the manufacturer's instructions. The microarray analysis was performed with two or three independently isolated RNA samples and assessed in each experiment by dye swapping as described previously (CITATION). Proteins were extracted from 3-week-old seedlings that had been treated with 5% Suc or H2O for 24 h. SDS–PAGE was carried out in an 8% acrylamide gel. The proteins were transferred from the gel to a poly(vinylidene difluoride) membrane (Immobilon; Millipore http://www.millipore.com), and the antigen on the membrane was detected with primary antibodies, followed by horseradish peroxidase-coupled protein A and chemiluminescence reagents (ECL kit; GE Healthcare http://www.gehealthcare.com). Antibodies raised against recombinant AtNuc-L1 (AtNuc-L1) and AtFib1 (CITATION) were used, and the antibody against recombinant NtMARBP61 (CITATION) was a generous gift from Dr Masayoshi Maeshima of Nagoya University.
