!~ABS~! Arabinogalactan-proteins (AGPs) are present on the surface of all plant cells. AtAGP17, 18 and 19 comprise the lysine-rich AGP subfamily in Arabidopsis and consist of an N-terminal signal peptide, a classical AGP domain interrupted by a small Lys-rich region and a C-terminal glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor addition sequence. Organ- and tissue-specific expression patterns and subcellular localization of AtAGP18 were studied and compared to other Lys-rich AGPs. AtAGP18 was highly expressed in roots, flowers and stems and weakly expressed in seedlings and rosettes. High AtAGP18 promoter activity was closely associated with vascular tissues and high in young organs as well as styles. Microarray and massively parallel signature sequencing (MPSS) data were also examined and showed largely consistent transcription profiles of AtAGP18. On the protein level, AtAGP18 was most abundant in roots and flowers, moderate in stems, seedlings and siliques and low in rosette leaves. Furthermore, AtAGP18 was localized to the plasma membrane and to Hechtian strands, following plasmolysis of tobacco cultured cells expressing a green fluorescence protein (GFP)–AtAGP18 fusion protein. Localization of AtAGP18 on the plasma membrane was further confirmed by biochemical two-phase fractionation and Western blotting. These expression and localization data further our understanding of AtAGP18 and provide a molecular basis to approach and decipher its function.
!~RES~! All Lys-rich AGPs identified to date have an N-terminal signal sequence, a central AGP domain containing a small Lys-rich region and a C-terminal GPI anchor addition sequence (Fig. 1a). Amino acid sequences of the Lys-rich AGPs were aligned (Fig. 1b). When compared to other Lys-rich AGPs, AtAGP18 had highest and lowest amino acid similarity/identity with AtAGP17 and AtAGP19, respectively (Table 1). In order to provide some insight on the relationship among Lys-rich AGPs and other AGPs, a phylogeny tree was created (Fig. 1c). All known Lys-rich AGPs clustered together; AtAGP17 and AtAGP18 were closely related. In contrast, AtAGP19 was most closely related to PtaAGP6 and AtAGP9. [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] Northern blot analyses revealed that expression of AtAGP18 in Arabidopsis was high in roots, flowers and stems and low in seedlings and rosettes (Fig. 2a). The organ-specific expression pattern of AtAGP18 was also compared to microarray and MPSS data, as discussed later (Fig. 2b, c). In the Arabidopsis cell culture, AtAGP18 transcript levels were high in exponentially growing cells and decreased with time (Fig. 2a). [[FIGURE]]  To investigate the expression of AtAGP18 on the tissue level, expression of the GUS gene under the control of the AtAGP18 promoter was examined in transgenic Arabidopsis plants (Fig. 3). AtAGP18 was widely expressed in Arabidopsis tissues at different developmental stages. In light-grown seedlings, cotyledons, hypocotyl and roots were stained. The basal portion of the hypocotyl was more stained than the apical portion. Roots were generally stained, including the vasculature, root hairs and other root cells, but not the root tip. In 3-day-old dark-grown seedlings, staining was throughout the seedlings; in 5-day-old dark-grown seedlings, the upper portion of hypocotyl was strongly stained. Strong AtAGP18 promoter activity was found in young rosette leaves and decreased as the leaf matured. Stomata, trichomes and trichome basal cells displayed GUS staining. Staining diminished from the midvein region in older leaves and persisted in the hydathodes (epidermal structures specialized for water secretion). All staining disappeared in old and senescent leaves. Young stems, flowers (especially the styles) and elongating siliques also exhibited strong AtAGP18 promoter activity. In addition to styles, GUS staining was found in vascular tissues of sepals, petals and stamens, but not pollen. In older siliques, AtAGP18 expression was restricted to seeds, but not seed pods. From the above, AtAGP18 promoter activity was tissue-specific and developmentally-regulated; vascular tissues and styles as well as young organs (i.e., leaves, stems and siliques) were preferentially stained by GUS. [[FIGURE]]  In addition to Northern blotting and GUS analysis, AtAGP18 expression was also examined by accessing publicly available microarray data at Genevestigator (Zimmermann et al. CITATION). AtAGP18 expression was detected in cell suspension cultures and a variety of plant tissues and organs (Fig. 2b) in microarray experiments with Affymetrix GeneChips 25 k chips (ATH1 chips covering all Arabidopsis genes). Moreover, tissue comparison experiments using cDNA chips detected 5–6 times more AtAGP18 transcript in flowers relative to leaves (data not shown). The abundance of the AtAGP18 transcript in vascular tissues, as revealed by the promoter-GUS analysis, was also corroborated by AtAGP18 expression data in Arabidopsis roots from the Arabidopsis Expression Database. In addition to high expression in the root vasculature, AtAGP18 expression was detected in other root tissues, such as endodermis, cortex and epidermis (Supplemental Fig. S1). Another approach to analyze gene expression is signature MPSS (Meyers et al. CITATION). AtAGP18 was the only Lys-rich AGP whose expression was detected by MPSS in callus (Fig. 2c). Its transcript levels were high in inflorescence and siliques and moderate in roots and leaves.  AtAGP18 expression levels in Arabidopsis treated with various abiotic and biotic stress were also examined. Some abiotic treatment microarray data were summarized at Arabidopsis Membrane Protein Library (http://www.cbs.umn.edu/arabidopsis/). AtAGP18 transcript levels decreased in the presence of cold, osmotic and UV stress, but not wounding (data not shown). Expression data in biotic stress experiments were found via TAIR Microarray Expression Search (http://www.arabidopsis.org/servlets/Search?action=new_search&type=expression) and manually analyzed. AtAGP18 signals were downregulated by ABA, upregulated by brassinosteroid and did not significantly change in response to other hormones (data not shown). Suppression of AtAGP18 expression by ABA was corroborated by Northern blot analysis (Sun CITATION). Pathogen-mediated regulation of AtAGP18 expression was also examined. AtAGP18 transcription was significantly suppressed by the bacterial pathogen Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato DC3000 (Pst DC3000), but not by a nonpathogenic mutant version Pst DC3000 hrcC − that had a mutation in the hrcC gene (Supplemental Fig. S2). Two databases, the A. thaliana Co-Response Database and the Arabidopsis thaliana trans-factor and cis-element prediction database, were used to examine genes co-expressed with AtAGP18. Both databases showed that AtAGP18 was co-regulated with genes belonging to various families, including those involved in cell wall biosynthesis, hormone pathways and signaling. A list of the top 50 genes that showed highest expression correlation with AtAGP18 from both websites is provided in Supplemental Table S1. AtAGP18 was also co-expressed with AtAGP17 (data not shown) as well as other AGPs genes, such as AtFLA2 and AtAGP21. Interestingly, some glycosyltransferases were observed to be co-expressed with AtAGP18, leading to the speculation that AtAGP18 is the acceptor substrate for these glycosyltransferases. Co-regulation of AtAGP18 with other genes, however, needs to be pursued more completely to understand the significance. Before peptide injection, rabbit preimmune sera were screened, and two rabbits with the lowest immune responses to Arabidopsis total leaf proteins were chosen for production of the antibody (data not shown). The purified anti-AtAGP18 peptide antibody was tested for its specificity. When synthetic peptides (20 aa) corresponding to Lys-rich regions of AtAGP17, 18 and 19 were used in dot blotting, the AtAGP18 antibody did not recognize the AtAGP17 and 19 peptides but exhibited strong reactivity against the AtAGP18 peptide (Supplemental Fig. S3a). Additionally, the AtAGP18 antibody did not react with the purified GFP–AtAGP17 fusion protein (Supplemental Fig. S3b). These results indicated that the AtAGP18 antibody was specific towards the targeted peptide, and in particular, did not show detectable cross-reactivity with AtAGP17. Organ-specific expression of AtAGP18 was obtained with Western blotting using the purified anti-AtAGP18 peptide antibody against total protein preparations (Fig. 4). AtAGP18 protein levels were highest in roots and flowers, followed by stems and seedlings. Low abundance of AtAGP18 protein was found in siliques and rosette leaves. [[FIGURE]]  In order to localize AtAGP18 at the cellular level, a GFP–AtAGP18 fusion protein was expressed in transgenic tobacco BY-2 cells under the control of the 35 S CaMV promoter. GFP was inserted between the signal sequence and the rest of AGP18 coding sequences. While WT BY-2 cells showed no background fluorescence, green fluorescence was observed on the surfaces (the PM and the cell wall) of transgenic BY-2 cells (Fig. 5a). When cells were plasmolyzed with 4% NaCl for 15 min, green fluorescence was localized to both the PM and Hechtian strands (Fig. 5b). The above results indicated that AtAGP18 was localized to the PM, presumably via a GPI lipid anchor, and in Hechtian strands, adhesion sites between the PM and cell wall. [[FIGURE]]  To confirm the PM localization of AtAGP18, biochemical two-phase fractionation and Western blotting were employed. Two phases were obtained from BY-2 cells expressing the GFP–AtAGP18 fusion protein: one phase contained purified PM, and the other phase was depleted of PM. Equal amounts of proteins from the two fractions were used for Western blotting, and the GFP antibody revealed the majority of GFP–AtAGP18 in the purified PM fraction, but not in the fraction depleted of PM, indicating that AtAGP18 was indeed present on the PM (Fig. 5c).
!~MM~!  Arabidopsis plants (Columbia-0 ecotype) were grown at 22°C under 16 h light/8 h dark conditions in soil or MS plates consisting of 1× MS (Murashige and Skoog) medium, 1% sucrose and 0.8% agar. The similarities/identities table was generated with MatGAT (Matrix Global Alignment Tool) v2.01 using the BLOSUM62 algorithm (http://www.angelfire.com/nj2/arabidopsis/MatGAT.html) (Campanella et al. CITATION). Amino acid sequence alignment of Lys-rich AGPs was rendered with Vector NTI version 6.0 (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). The phylogeny tree was created from 1,000 bootstrap replicates with the PHYML algorithm (http://atgc.lirmm.fr/phyml) (Guindon and Gascuel CITATION; Guindon et al. CITATION) using a PHYLIP file of aligned AGP amino acid sequences (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/clustalw). The tree was displayed with TreeView 1.6.6 (http://taxonomy.zoology.gla.ac.uk/rod/treeview.html).  Arabidopsis suspension-cultured cells were collected by filtering at different times after subculturing; aerial parts of 7-day-old Arabidopsis seedlings and 4-week-old mature rosette leaves, roots, flowers and inflorescence stems were harvested. Total RNA was extracted with the RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (QIAGEN, Valencia, CA). Northern blotting was carried out according to Sun et al. (CITATION). For the P AtAGP18:GUS construct, the AtAGP18 promoter (2.5 kb upstream of the start codon) was amplified by the primer pair: 5′-GGC CCT TAA TTA AGG TCT CAA CAT GAG AGG TTC CAA C-3′ and 5′-GCC AGG CGC GCC ATT TTG TTA AAA TTT GGA TCA AAC-3′ using the AccuPrime Pfx DNA polymerase (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). The PCR product and pMDC164 binary vector (Curtis and Grossniklaus CITATION) were digested by restriction enzymes PacI (TTAATTAA) and AscI (GGCGCGCC) and ligated (New England BioLabs, Beverly, MA). Binary vectors were delivered into Agrobacterium strain LBA4404 by electroporation (Weigel and Glazebrook CITATION). WT Arabidopsis plants were transformed by the floral dip method (Clough and Bent CITATION). GUS staining was performed on T2 plants (Yang et al. CITATION). At least ten independent transgenic lines harboring the P AtAGP18 :GUS fusion were tested, and representative GUS staining patterns were presented. WT controls were also subjected to the same GUS staining solution and were never stained. Microarray data for AtAGP18 expression in WT Arabidopsis (Columbia-0) under normal conditions were obtained from Genevestigator (Zimmermann et al. CITATION) at http://www.genevestigator.ethz.ch/ and plotted. Expression data of AtAGP18 in roots were available at the Arabidopsis Gene Expression Database at http://www.arexdb.org. Microarray data of AtAGP18 expression under stress conditions were retrieved from the Arabidopsis Membrane Protein Library (http://www.cbs.umn.edu/arabidopsis/) and TAIR Microarray Expression Search (http://www.arabidopsis.org/servlets/Search?action=new_search&type=expression) and analyzed. Co-expression of AtAGP18 with other genes was examined at the A. thaliana Co-Response Database (http://csbdb.mpimp-golm.mpg.de/csbdb/dbcor/ath.html) and the Arabidopsis thaliana trans-factor and cis-element prediction database (http://www.atted.bio.titech.ac.jp/). Signature MPSS data were obtained from Arabidopsis MPSS Plus Database (http://mpss.udel.edu/at/) (Meyers et al. CITATION). Transcripts per million (TPM) values (sums of abundance for classes 1, 2, 5 and 7 signatures) of the 17 and 20 bp signatures were averaged and plotted. A 20 aa peptide (PAPAPSKHKKTTKKSKKHQA) corresponding to the Lys-rich region of AtAGP18 was synthesized and conjugated to keyhole limpet hemocyanin to promote immune responses in rabbits. The antibody was produced and purified with affinity columns (Genemed Synthesis Inc., South San Francisco, CA). This antibody is referred to either as anti-AtAGP18 peptide antibody or simply as AtAGP18 antibody in this manuscript. Total proteins were extracted from Arabidopsis leaves, roots, stems, flowers and siliques (Weigel and Glazebrook CITATION) and quantified with DC RD Protein Assay Kit (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA). Electrophoresis and transfer of proteins were carried out using the Mini-PROTEAN 3 Electrophoresis Cell and Mini Trans-Blot Electrophoretic Transfer Cell (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA). Equal amounts of protein were run on 5–10% SDS-PAGE gels and electro-blotted to PVDF membrane (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA). Duplicate membranes were either stained by 0.1% (w/v) Coomassie blue or immunoblotted. For immunoblotting, the membrane was treated with blocking buffer [5% (w/v) milk, 0.05% (v/v) Tween 20, PBS] and incubated with the GFP antibody (Clontech, Mountain View, CA) diluted 1:400 for 1 h at RT or the purified AtAGP18 antibody diluted 1:500 overnight at 4°C. The membrane was washed in PBS supplemented with 0.05% (v/v) Tween 20 before incubation with alkaline phosphatase-conjugated secondary antibodies (Sigma-Aldrich, St Louis, MO) or horse radish peroxidase-conjugated secondary antibodies (Pierce, Rockford, IL). For Yariv staining of gels, the gel was submerged in Yariv solution (200 μM Yariv, 1% NaCl) overnight at RT and rinsed. To construct the GFP-AtAGP18 fusion protein, the LeAGP1 signal sequence followed by the enhanced GFP sequence was amplified from the pBI121–SS tom –EGFP–AtAGP17 vector (Sun et al. CITATION) with a 5′ primer containing a XhoI site (CTCGAG) (5′-CCG GCT CGA GGG TCT ATA TTT TCT TTA GCT ACC ATG-3′) and a 3′ primer containing a ClaI site (ATCGAT) (5′-AAA TTA ATC GAT GTA CAG CTC GTC CAT GCC GAG AGT GA-3′). The AtAGP18 coding region without the signal sequence was amplified with primers: 5′-CCT GCG ATC GAT CAA TCT CCT ATC TCT TCT CCG ACC-3′ and 5′-CGC TCT AGA TTA GAA TGC CAT AAC GAG AAC GGC CCA-3′. The PCR products were successively cloned into the vector pKANNIBAL (Wesley et al. CITATION) between the XhoI site (CTCGAG) and the ClaI site (ATCGAT) and between the ClaI site (ATCGAT) and the XbaI site (TCTAGA), and the fragment containing the 35 S CaMV promoter, GFP and AtAGP18 was then inserted into the binary vector pART27 (Gleave CITATION). Bright yellow-2 (BY-2, Nicotiana tabacum) cells were transformed and maintained following published methods (Persson et al. CITATION; Love et al. CITATION; Zhao et al. CITATION). Transgenic BY-2 cells were observed using a Zeiss confocal laser scanning fluorescence microscope LSM510 (Zeiss, Germany) (Sun et al. CITATION, CITATION). Images were processed with the Zeiss LSM image browser. PM vesicles were purified by two-phase fractionation following published procedures (Larsson et al. CITATION; Komalavilas et al. CITATION; Sun et al. CITATION). The PM and PM-depleted (intracellular membranes) phases were dissolved in ddH2O, stored at −80°C and used for Western blotting.
