!~ABS~! γ-Glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT) is the enzyme responsible for breaking the γ-glutamyl bond between Glu and Cys in glutathione (GSH). We are using this gene family to study GSH degradation in plants. There are four putative GGT genes in Arabidopsis, and one of them, GGT3 (At4g29210), is analyzed in this study. GGT3 is localized to the vacuole based on organelle-targeting programs, subcellular distribution of GFP fusion proteins during transient expression in onion (Allium cepa) epidermal tissues, and its ability to metabolize vacuolar substrates in Arabidopsis plants. While Northern blots and promoter:GUS expression patterns have suggested that GGT3 is transcribed at relatively high levels in all parts of the plant, a comparison of enzyme activities in different organs of wild-type and a ggt3 knockout mutant showed that GGT3 was a major contributor to total GGT activity in roots, but a relatively minor contributor in other tissues. Wild-type Arabidopsis plants treated with monobromobimane (mBB) form a fluorescent GSH–mBB conjugate that is moved into the vacuole and then metabolized to Cys-Gly–mBB and Cys–mBB in that order. The first step is catalyzed by GGT3, and GSH–mBB metabolism is completely blocked in the roots of ggt3 knockout plants. In ggt3 leaves, some GSH–mBB metabolism still proceeds using the apoplastic GGT1. This identifies GGT3 as catalyzing the obligate initial step in GSH conjugate metabolism, and suggests that it has an important role in protecting plants from some xenobiotic chemicals.
!~RES~! In order to determine where GGT3 is expressed, RNA blot analysis was performed using a genomic clone for GGT3 as a probe. As shown in Figure 1(a), GGT3 appears to be universally expressed in all Arabidopsis organs at fairly high levels. The tissue specificity of expression was determined by fusing the entire 791 bp region upstream from the GGT3 ORF to the ORF of the next gene to the GUS reporter gene, and transforming it into Arabidopsis plants. Three independent lines were selected for further analysis, and plants carrying the T-DNA in the homozygous state were studied in each line. GUS staining was observed in all organs, such as rosette leaves (Figure 1b), flowers (Figure 1c), siliques (Figure 1d), stems (Figure 1e) and roots (Figure 1f). This was in good agreement with RNA blot analysis (Figure 1a). There was no obvious tissue specificity of GUS expression in any organ except in siliques (Figure 1d). In siliques, GUS was observed only in pedicels and tips. The same trends were observed in all three independent lines. [[FIGURE]] To study the subcellular localization of GGT3 in living cells, green fluorescent protein (GFP) was fused downstream of the GGT3 ORF and placed under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. The construct was expressed transiently in epidermal cells of onions by microprojectile bombardment. As a control, free GFP was also expressed. The GFP fluorescence was analyzed with a fluorescence microscope. When GFP was fused to the full-length GGT3 ORF or the N-terminal 300 amino acids of the GGT3 ORF, GFP fluorescence was not observed (data not shown). This might have occurred because these fusion proteins were unstable. When GFP was fused to the N-terminal 100 amino acids of the GGT3 ORF, GFP fluorescence was observed. These 100 amino acids contain the whole unique N-terminal extension of GGT3. As shown in Figure 2(a), fluorescence from GFP fused with the GGT3 N-terminal 100 amino acids was observed in almost the whole interior of the cells, whereas free GFP predominantly localized in the nucleus and in the thin cytosolic layer underlying the cell membrane (Figure 2c). When cells were placed in 10% w/v mannitol solution, the cell membranes were plasmolyzed by osmotic pressure. Fluorescence from the GFP fused with the GGT3 N-terminus was observed inside the shrunken cell membranes (Figure 2b), while free GFP again localized predominantly in the nucleus and around the cell membranes (Figure 2d). Most of the volume of mature plant cells is occupied by a large vacuole. Therefore, localization of the GGT3::GFP fusion is consistent with GGT3 being localized within the vacuole as predicted by computer analysis of the N-terminus of the protein. When the microscope was focused through the vacuole, no enrichment of the GFP signal was observed near the inner surface of the organelle. This suggests that the protein is not tonoplast-associated but rather free within the vacuole. [[FIGURE]] To investigate the function of GGT3 in planta, the ggt3-1 knockout line was obtained from the Ds transposon insertion lines (CITATION) at the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (http://nasc.nott.ac.uk/). Homozygous progeny with a single transposon insertion were selected by PCR and DNA gel blot hybridization analyses (data not shown). The insertion was located in the third exon of the GGT3 gene (Figure 3a). Northern gel blot analysis was performed with RNA from wild-type and the ggt3-1 mutant plants using the GGT3 ORF as a probe. A band with a larger size was observed in the ggt3-1 plants compared with that of wild-type (Figure 3b), suggesting that a portion of the Ds transposon was transcribed together with part of the GGT3 gene in the ggt3-1 plants. The disruption in the center of the open reading frame and the failure of the mutant to produce normal GGT3 mRNA suggest that functional GGT3 protein was not produced in the ggt3-1 plants. The ggt3-1 plants were grown on soil under normal conditions until they set seed. No visible differences were observed in the knockout plants compared with wild-type plants. [[FIGURE]] GGT activities in various organs of the ggt3-1 plants were determined (Table 1). Compared with activities in wild-type plants, total GGT activity in the roots of the ggt3-1 plants was significantly decreased by 44%. In other organs such as leaves, siliques, flowers and stems, GGT activities in the ggt3-1 plants were 80–91% of those in wild-type plants. In the ggt1-1 knockout plants, GGT activity was about 42% in roots, 43% in siliques and 8–25% in other organs, compared with that measured in wild-type plants (CITATION). In the ggt2-1 knockout plants, activity in siliques was 45% of wild-type activity, with no significant difference in other organs (CITATION). Taken together, the loss of activity caused by each of the knockout mutants for ggt1, ggt2 and ggt3 added together for each organ was equal to the total GGT activities in wild-type plants. Further support that GGT1 and GGT3 contribute all detectable GGT activity in organs other than in siliques comes from analysis of a ggt1-1/ggt3-1 double knockout mutant. There was no detectable GGT activity from these plants in any organs other than siliques. The activity in siliques of ggt1-1/ggt3-1 double knockout plants is derived from GGT2 activity. This supports our earlier assumption, based on an inability to find mRNA, that the partial GGT gene, GGT4, is a pseudogene and does not produce a functional protein. In siliques, GGT activity in the ggt1-1/ggt3-1 double knockout mutant plants was 52% of that in wild-type plants (1.95 ± 0.58 versus 3.78 ± 0.70 nmol mg protein−1 min−1, n = 4, P < 0.04). Roots of liquid cultured 2-week-old plants, leaves from soil grown 4-week-old plants and siliques (1–5 days after flowering), flowers and stems from soil grown 7-week-old plants were harvested and assayed for GGT activity. Means ± SD of 4 (roots), 6 (leaves) or 8 (other organs) biological replicates from different groups of plants are shown. Asterisk indicates significant difference between wild-type and the ggt3-1 mutant plants (P < 0.05, Student's t-test). The GSH, γ-EC and Cys concentrations of the ggt3-1 plants were determined in roots from 2-week-old plants, leaves from 4-week-old plants, and rosette leaves, cauline leaves, stems, flower buds, flowers and siliques from 7-week-old plants. No difference in thiol levels was observed compared with wild-type plants in all organs examined (data not shown). Toxic xenobiotics are conjugated with GSH and sequestered into the vacuole (for reviews, see CITATION; CITATION). As the GGT3–GFP fusion protein is localized to the inside of the vacuole (Figure 2), the in vivo degradation of GSH conjugates in the vacuole was analyzed in the ggt3-1 plants to determine whether GGT3 contributes to GSH conjugate degradation in this organelle. Monobromobimane (mBB) was used as a model substrate for the analysis. mBB fluoresces when conjugated with thiols. Previously, CITATION showed in Arabidopsis roots incubated with bimane that most of the fluorescence initially formed in the cytosol was either due to the high concentration of GSH in this space or the presence of a cytosolic GST that catalyzed much of this reaction. The GSH–bimane conjugate was then transported from the cytosol into the vacuole, and, within 1 h after labeling, all of the fluorescence was found in that organelle. In our study, we traced mBB-conjugated metabolites both in roots and leaves using HPLC to follow the formation and degradation of GSH–bimane conjugate. As a first step, the time course of GSH–mBB degradation was examined in roots of wild-type plants. mBB was added to the liquid culture medium of 2-week-old Arabidopsis plants. During the 1 h treatment with mBB, enough GSH–mBB conjugate was formed to account for all the GSH before treatment (data not shown). After 1 h, excess mBB was washed out of the roots with mBB-free medium and the plants were further grown for up to 32 h as indicated (Figure 4). mBB-conjugated metabolites were then extracted from roots and analyzed by HPLC. In the roots of wild-type plants, GSH–mBB decreased to a quarter of its initial level in the first 8 h, and further decreased over an additional 16 h. As the GSH–mBB conjugate was metabolized, the level of Cys-mBB increased fivefold during the 16 h incubation. Mass balance analysis suggested that the initial mBB treatment produced a small amount of Cys–mBB and several-fold more GSH–mBB. The presence of similar Cys–mBB levels in the ggt3-1 knockout suggests that this Cys–mBB resulted directly from the reaction of Cys and mBB (see below). During the next 16 h, the GSH–mBB was stoichiometrically converted into Cys–mBB. The Cys–mBB did not appear to be further metabolized during the 32 h of this experiment. [[FIGURE]] The in vivo degradation of GSH–mBB was next investigated in roots of the ggt1-1 (CITATION) and ggt3-1 plants. As most of the degradation occurred in the first 16 h in the time-course analysis, and no further metabolism occurred up to 32 h (Figure 4), mBB-conjugated metabolites were extracted at 1, 6 and 16 h after washing out the unreacted mBB. In wild-type plants, the concentration of GSH–mBB decreased 53% from 1 to 6 h, and 72% from 1 to 16 h (Figure 5a), whereas Cys–mBB levels increased 1.9-fold from 1 to 6 h and 3.8-fold from 1 to 16 h (Figure 5b). There was no significant difference in GSH–mBB and Cys–mBB levels between the ggt1-1 plants and wild-type plants at all time points (Figure 5a,b). In contrast, in the ggt3-1 plants, neither the GSH–mBB or Cys–mBB levels changed significantly from 1 h to 16 h (Figure 5a,b). Thus disrupting GGT3 activity in roots completely blocked GSH–mBB metabolism. [[FIGURE]] Concentrations of Cys-Gly–mBB in roots were also determined (Figure 5c). Cys-Gly–mBB was detected in wild-type plants and ggt1-1 plants only at 1 and 6 h, without a significant difference between them, but this product of the GGT reaction was not detected in the ggt3-1 mutants at any time point. There was no difference in γ-EC–mBB levels in either the ggt1-1 or ggt3-1 mutants compared with the wild-type plants (Figure 5d). These data strongly suggest that the GGT3 protein is primarily responsible for the initial degradation of GSH conjugates in the vacuole. In addition, they show that degradation initiates from the N-terminus to produce Cys–Gly conjugates. Otherwise we would have seen a time-dependent increase in the levels of γ-EC–mBB in the ggt3-1 mutant where it could not be processed further. Only after the Glu is removed did the dipeptidase proceed to remove the Gly residue to leave Cys–mBB. γ-EC is an intermediate in the biosynthesis of GSH, and these data suggest that it has no role in GSH conjugate breakdown. Interestingly, the presence of Cys–mBB and γ-EC–mBB in the ggt3-1 plants can only be explained by the direct reaction between endogenous cysteine (and γ-EC) and monobromobimane in vivo. This shows that mBB reacts directly with cysteine and γ-EC, and, by extension, at least in part with GSH in a reaction that does not require GST. The vacuolar enzyme GGT3 contributes about half of the GGT activity in roots, while the extracellular enzyme GGT1 provides over 90% of the activity in leaves. In order to investigate the physiological significance of this organ-specific distribution, in vivo degradation of mBB conjugates was next investigated in leaves. mBB solution was vacuum-infiltrated into leaves, and the leaves were incubated for 1 h in the mBB solution. The mBB-conjugated metabolites were extracted from leaves at 1 or 16 h after washing out excess mBB. As the efficiency of infiltrations differed between leaves, the percentage of total thiol levels (GSH–mBB plus Cys–mBB plus Cys-Gly–mBB plus γ-EC–mBB) was calculated. The percentage of total thiols in GSH–mBB decreased from 87% at 1 h to 75% at 16 h in wild-type plants (Figure 6a), showing that the degradation of GSH–mBB was much slower in leaves than in roots where GSH–mBB decreased to less than 15% of its initial levels by 16 h. This is consistent with the lower GGT activity from the GGT3 protein in wild-type leaves compared with roots based on activity of the ggt3-1 mutant plants (Table 1). The percentage of GSH–mBB at 16 h was significantly higher in the ggt3-1 mutants than in wild-type leaves (Figure 6a), and the level of Cys–mBB at 16 h in the ggt3-1 mutant leaves was half that of wild-type leaves (Figure 6b). This shows that even though the rate of degradation of GSH–mBB to Cys–mBB was lower in leaves than roots, the majority of metabolism still proceeded through GGT3 based on the inhibition in the ggt3-1 plants. In the ggt1-1 plants, no significant difference was observed in GSH–mBB and Cys–mBB, but the percentage of Cys-Gly–mBB was significantly lower than that of wild-type plants at both time points. The decrease of Cys-Gly–mBB in the ggt1 mutant, and the presence of GSH–mBB degradation products such as Cys-Gly–mBB and Cys–mBB in the ggt3-1 plants, show that some extracellular degradation of the GSH conjugate by GGT1 is occurring in leaves. The percentage of γ-EC–mBB did not differ between wild-type plants and both mutant plants, again supporting the conclusion that γ-EC is not an intermediate in GSH degradation. [[FIGURE]] To determine whether GGT3 expression is induced by xenobiotics, mRNA accumulation in response to 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-d), which is a substrate for GSTs in Arabidopsis (CITATION), was determined by real-time PCR. Relative mRNA accumulation of GGT3 relative to the ACTIN control was increased by 2,4-d treatment (Figure 7a), while the accumulation of GGT1 was not changed (Figure 7b). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Unless otherwise indicated, Arabidopsis plants were grown in a growth chamber with constant temperature (22°C) and a 24 h photoperiod (250 μmol m−2 sec−1). Liquid culture was performed as described by CITATION. The ggt3-1 knockout mutant line (Landsberg background) was obtained from the Ds transposon insertion lines (CITATION) at the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (http://nasc.nott.ac.uk/; stock number N161036). The homozygous plants containing the insert located in the third exon of the GGT3 were screened by PCR using gene-specific primers GGT3-1 F (5′-CGGACAGGTTTTGAAAACCG-3′), GGT3-1 R (5′-AGTACTCAGGTGGGAATGTCGTGT-3′) and the Ds5′-1 primer (CITATION). Integration of the T-DNA was confirmed by sequencing the PCR product of the T-DNA flanking region. A single transposon insertion in the mutant was confirmed by DNA gel blot hybridization using the nptII gene as a probe as described previously (CITATION). The ggt1-1 knockout mutant plants (Landsberg background) are described by CITATION. The ggt1-1/ggt3-1 double knockout mutants were generated by crossing the two single mutants. Plants from the F2 generation carrying both homozygous mutations were screened by PCR using primers GGT1-1F and GGT1-1R (CITATION), GGT3-1F, GGT3-1R and Ds5′-1. RNA blots were performed as described by CITATION, with RNA from wild-type (Landsberg) and ggt3-1 mutant plants being screened using GGT3 genomic or ORF regions amplified by PCR as probes. The upstream region, 791 bp from the translational start site of the GGT3 gene, was amplified using primers 5′-GCGAGCTCTACTGGTTAGAGCACAGAAATC-3′ and 5′-CGGAATTCCTTCAATCTCTATCTCCTTTTCCC-3′. These primers contain SacI and EcoRI sites at their 5′ ends, respectively. The amplified fragment was inserted in the SacI–EcoRI site of the binary vector pCB2002A. The vector pCB2002A was constructed by inserting a multiple cloning site into pCAMBIA3301 (CITATION) between the BstXI and SmaI sites. The multiple cloning site sequence consists of recognition sites for BstXI, SstI, DraIII, AscI, AvrII, SwaI, DraIII and SmaI. The binary vector construct was introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens for Arabidopsis plant transformation as described previously (CITATION). Observation of GUS staining was performed as described by CITATION. To construct a GFP-tagged GGT3 ORF, the DNA sequence encoding the N-terminal 100 amino acids was reverse-transcribed from RNA and amplified using primers 5′-ACGCGTCGACATGCGTGACGCAATCATCG-3′ and 5′-CATGCCATGGAACCACCACCACCACCACCACTTCTAAGAACAGAGGCACCGATC-3′. These primers contain a SalI site, and a NcoI site downstream of six Gly codons. The amplified fragment was cloned into a 35SΩ-sGFP (S65T) plasmid (CITATION) between the SalI and NcoI sites. The unmodified 35SΩ-sGFP (S65T) plasmid was used to express free GFP. Microprojectile bombardment was performed using a PDS-1000/He biolistic particle delivery system (Bio-Rad, http://www.biorad.com), essentially according to the manufacturer's instructions. Epidermal cell layers peeled from onions were placed on 1% agar plates with 0.5× MS salts and bombarded using a rupture disk of 900 Pascal per square inch at a target distance of approximately 10 cm. At 24–30 h after bombardment, GFP fluorescence was analyzed with the 488 nm argon laser using a Zeiss Axioplan microscope (Carl Zeiss, http://www.zeiss.com). Images from the microscope were captured with a video camera (AxioCam HRC) connected to a PC computer with AxioVision 3.06.1. Photoshop 7.0J software (Adobe) was used to enhance the pictures. γ-glutamyl transpeptidase activity was determined using γ-glutamyl-p-nitroanilide and glycylglycine as described by CITATION. Monobromobimane (mBB) was purchased from Sigma-Aldrich (http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/) and dissolved in acetonitrile at 50 mm. For mBB treatment of roots, Arabidopsis plants were grown in liquid culture as described previously (CITATION). Fourteen days after germination, mBB was supplemented to the culture medium at 50 m, and the plants were incubated with mBB on Innova 2300 platform shaker (New Brunswick Scientific Co., Inc., http://www.nbsc.com) at 120 rpm in the dark. After 1 h, the plants were washed twice with 40 ml of the culture medium without mBB to remove unreacted mBB, and were kept in the medium on the shaker in the dark. After the indicated time, roots were sampled into liquid nitrogen and stored at −80°C. For mBB treatment of leaves, the 50 mm mBB stock solution was dissolved in water at 100 m. Leaves from 3-week-old Arabidopsis plants were placed in the solution and vacuum-infiltrated. The leaves were incubated in the mBB solution in the dark for 1 h. After washing out the mBB solution twice with deionized water, leaves were incubated in deionized water in the dark. At the indicated time, leaves were removed to liquid nitrogen and stored at −80°C. mBB-conjugated thiols were extracted from tissues with 2 ml/g tissue of 0.15 N HCl, and Cys, Cys-Gly, γ-EC and GSH conjugates were separated and quantified by HPLC (CITATION). Plants were grown vertically on agar plates (half-strength Murashige and Skoog salts, 0.4 g l−1 MES, 2% w/v sucrose, pH 5.8, solidified with 1% w/v of agar). Plants grown for 8 days without 2,4-d were transferred to fresh agar plates with or without 2 m of 2,4-d (Sigma-Aldrich), and grown for an additional 3 days. First-strand cDNA was synthesized from total RNA extracted from leaves using SuperScript II reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com/) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Real-time PCR analysis was carried out using the iCycler iQ real-time PCR detection system (Bio-Rad, http://www.bio-rad.com/) and iQ SYBR Green Supermix (Bio-Rad) as recommended by the manufacturer. Serial dilutions of a concentrated first-strand cDNA stock were used as relative standards. The sequences of primers used in real-time PCR analysis are 5′-TTCCCAAACAAAGATGTCCTCAA-3′ and 5′-TGGTGAACCAGGGACCATGA-3′ for quantifying GGT3 mRNA, and 5′-TCCTCGAAAAGGAGGGTTCC-3′ and 5′-TCATCACAAAGTTCGGTTCAATAATCA-3′ for quantifying GGT1 mRNA. The ACTIN gene (ACT8; CITATION) was chosen as a control and its expression determined using primers as described by CITATION. Plants were grown hydroponically in 50 ml conical tubes at 22°C under 10 h light (200 μmol−1 m−2 sec−1)/14 h dark. MGRL medium (CITATION) was used. For nitrogen deficiency treatment, all nitrate ions in MGRL medium were replaced with equal molar concentrations of chloride ions. Plants were first grown in normal MGRL medium for 18 days and the medium was replaced on the day 14. On the day 18, plants were transferred to nitrogen-deficient medium with or without herbicides. Plants were also transferred to the normal medium with or without herbicides. Dual II (Syngenta, http://www.syngenta.com), whose active ingredient is metolachlor, or 2,4-d were used as herbicides and added to the media at 10−5 dilution and 1 m, respectively. After transferring to the nitrogen-deficient medium, plants were grown for additional 7 days. Then the leaves and roots were sampled separately, and subjected to amino acid analysis. Plant tissues were homogenized in 80% ethanol at 65°C. After centrifugation at 16 000 g, ethanol in the supernatant was removed by evaporation and the residue was dissolved in 0.15 m HCl. The concentrations of amino acids were determined using an AccQ Fluor reagent kit (Waters, http://www.waters.com) and reverse-phase HPLC as recommended by the manufacturer.
