!~ABS~! Leaves are reported to contain a secreted α‐amylase that accumulates during senescence or after biotic or abiotic stress; however, a gene encoding this enzyme has not been described. Because a secreted amylase is isolated from plastidic starch, the function of this enzyme is difficult to predict, but circumstantial evidence suggests that it may degrade starch after cell death. The Arabidopsis thaliana genome contains three α‐amylase genes, one of which, AMY1 (At4g25000), has a putative signal sequence suggesting that the protein may be secreted. Two independent T‐DNA insertion mutants in AMY1 lacked an amylase band on starch zymograms, which was previously named ‘A1’. Washed leaf protoplasts contained reduced A1 activity suggesting that the enzyme is secreted. Native AMY1, fused to a weakly fluorescent form of GFP, was sensitive to proteinase K infiltrated into leaf apoplastic spaces, while a cytosolic form of GFP was unaffected until cell breakage, confirming that the AMY1 protein is secreted. Amylase A1 was transcriptionally induced in senescing leaves and in leaves exposed to heat stress, treated with abscisic acid or infected with Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato expressing avrRpm1. The A1 amylase was also extremely heat resistant and its expression was up‐regulated in cpr5‐2, an activated defence response mutant. 
!~RES~!  Arabidopsis contains three genes with strong similarity to previously characterized α‐amylase genes, named AMY1, AMY2 and AMY3 (Lloyd et al. 2005). AMY1 (At4g25000), the focus of this study, encodes a protein of 423 amino acids with a predicted mass of 47 kDa. It has a typical signal sequence, as predicted by PSORT (Nakai & Kanehisa 1992; http://psort.nibb.ac.jp/) and TargetP (Emanuelsson et al. 2000; http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/), indicating that it likely enters the secretory pathway. AMY2 (At1g76130) also encodes a 47 kDa protein but it contains no predicted targeting signals. AMY3 (At1g69830) is considerably larger, encoding a protein of about 100 kDa with a predicted chloroplast transit peptide. None of these proteins are more than 48% identical to each other and are thus not likely to have arisen from recent gene duplications. The proteins are also not likely to be functionally redundant, given their putative cellular localizations.  In order to compare these three Arabidopsis α‐amylases with those from other plants, we aligned their amino acid sequences using ClustalW (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/clustalw) and then constructed an unrooted phylogenetic tree (data not shown). As observed by Stanley et al. (2002), the sequences clustered into three clades that correlate perfectly with their predicted molecular masses and the presence or absence of specific targeting sequences. Clade I includes AMY1 and contains sequences that range from 421 to 445 amino acids, each with a putative signal sequence. Clade II includes AMY2 and consists of sequences that range in size from 407 to 414 amino acids with no predicted targeting signals, while Clade III includes AMY3 and contains sequences that are all much larger than the others, ranging from 887 to 906 amino acids. Each member of clade III contains a putative chloroplast transit peptide and aligns with the smaller α‐amylases in their C‐terminal halves. It is worth noting that the three sequenced plant genomes of Arabidopsis, rice and black cottonwood all contain at least one member in each of the three clades, suggesting that each clade is important to plant function. Stanley et al. (2002) also noted that the Pinus taeda expressed sequence tag (EST) collection included sequences from each clade.  Two T‐DNA insertion mutants in AMY1 were obtained from the SALK collection and named amy1‐1 (SALK_094382; described in Yu et al. 2005) and amy1‐2 (SALK_014462). PCR analysis confirmed that the insertions were in the AMY1 gene (data not shown). Segregation analysis revealed that the first mutant, amy1‐1, had T‐DNA integration at only a single locus, but amy1‐2 contained insertions at two independent loci. To eliminate the second insertion, we crossed an amy1‐2 plant with a wild‐type plant and isolated a line with the insert in AMY1 that yielded seeds with a 3:1 ratio of kanamycin‐resistant to sensitive progeny, indicating that it contained T‐DNA insertions at only a single locus. Sequencing across the AMY1/T‐DNA insertion border confirmed that the inserts in amy1‐1 and amy1‐2 were in the third exon and the third intron, respectively (Fig. 1a). For all subsequent experiments, we used homozygous amy1‐1 and amy1‐2 mutant plants.  [[FIGURE]] Leaf extracts from mutant and wild‐type plants were subjected to native, starch‐containing PAGE and the mutants were found to lack a yellow to white‐coloured band previously identified by Lin et al. (1988) as ‘amylase A1’, while other starch‐degrading activities remained largely unchanged (Fig. 1b). In order to visualize the difference between amy1 mutant and wild‐type extracts more clearly, all of the protein extracts used in the gel illustrated in Fig. 1a were obtained from leaves pre‐treated by floating on 50 µM ABA for 24 h, which induces A1 activity (see further discussion). Both amy1‐1 and amy1‐2 mutant leaves always lacked A1, with or without exogenous ABA treatment, indicating that the mutants were not simply unresponsive to ABA. In starch zymograms, the colour of bands generated is indicative of the type of enzyme that acted on the starch (Kakefuda & Duke 1984) and in this case, the colour of the A1 band is consistent with it being an α‐amylase. The red band below A1 and several other starch hydrolases including a phloem‐localized grey β‐amylase (Monroe & Preiss 1990; Wang, Monroe & Sjolund 1995) were present in both mutants and wild‐type leaves, as were several other unidentified minor bands.  The presence of a putative signal peptide at the N‐terminus of AMY1 suggests that it enters the secretion pathway. Vacuum infiltration followed by centrifugation has been used to extract apoplastic α‐amylases from pea stems (Beers & Duke 1988) or tobacco leaves (Heitz et al. 1991). However, due to the small size of Arabidopsis leaves and stems, we had only marginal success using this approach to isolate apoplastic fluids from Arabidopsis. Instead, we attempted to localize the A1 protein using two approaches: analysing washed protoplasts for the presence of A1 activity and localizing GFP in transgenic plants expressing an AMY1‐GFP fusion protein.  If A1 activity is localized in the apoplast, digestion of the cell wall during preparation of protoplasts should release A1 activity into washing solutions. The analysis of broken protoplasts on native, starch‐containing PAGE should result in the absence of A1 activity. Crude leaf extracts from wild‐type leaves contained A1 and A3 activity, while washed protoplasts prepared from leaves of the same age contained amylase A3 but lacked A1 almost entirely, indicating that it may be extracellular or loosely associated with the cell wall and/or plasma membrane (Fig. 2a). Additional starch‐degrading activities observed in the protoplast lane were due to contaminating starch hydrolases present in the enzyme preparations used to make the protoplasts, as seen by comparison to lane 3 (Fig. 2a).  [[FIGURE]] To localize AMY1 using GFP, the AMY1 coding sequence with its native signal sequence was inserted into the vector pCAMBIA1302 between the 35S promoter and GFP, creating AMY1‐GFP (Fig. 2b). AMY1‐GFP was then introduced into wild‐type Arabidopsis plants using Agrobacterium‐mediated floral transformation. Control plants were transformed with unmodified pCAMBIA1302 containing GFP (Fig. 2b). AMY1‐GFP migrated at the predicted molecular mass in SDS‐PAGE immunoblots (Fig. 2c) and exhibited A1 activity in native, starch‐containing PAGE (Fig. 2d). However, the A1 activity we detected in AMY1‐GFP transgenic lines migrated as a triplet of protein bands in about the same position as A1, suggesting alternative folding or proteolytic processing had occurred (Fig. 2d). When AMY1‐GFP was inserted into the amy1‐2 background, A1 activity was restored, confirming that A1 activity is encoded by the AMY1 gene (Fig. 2d). Unfortunately, fluorescence microscopy failed to show a strong GFP signal above the autofluoresence normally observed in wild‐type plants, in either the GFP or the AMY1‐GFP plants. The lack of fluorescence was most likely due to the type of GFP (mGFP5) employed in this study (Roberts et al. 1998). We therefore used an alternative strategy to determine if AMY1‐GFP was in the apoplast. We reasoned that cell membranes should protect the cytosolic, control GFP from degradation by infiltrated proteinase K, while AMY1‐GFP would be sensitive to degradation only if it was located in the apoplast. Proteinase K (500 µg mL–1) pressure‐infiltrated by syringe into leaves of both types of transgenic plants resulted in the degradation of the GFP of the AMY1‐GFP fusion protein, but had no effect on the cytosolic GFP after 30 min (Fig. 2e). To expose intracellular forms of GFP to degradation by proteinase K, the plasma membrane was solubilized by first infiltrating with 1% Triton X‐100 and proteinase K and then heating the leaf discs to 70 °C for 5 min. After this treatment, the GFP in both AMY1‐GFP and GFP was degraded (Fig. 2e). The results of the protoplasting experiments and the leaf infiltration experiments both indicate that AMY1 is located in the apoplast of leaves.  Young and mature leaves of wild‐type Arabidopsis plants contained amylase A1 at low levels as determined by native starch‐containing PAGE, but the level was highly elevated with age and in senescing leaves (Fig. 3a). Levels of the other starch hydrolases visible in this native gel system generally declined in older leaves. Amylase A3, a cytosolic β‐amylase expressed in phloem tissue (Wang et al. 1995), increased from 4 to 8 weeks and then declined in the 10‐week‐old plants. Q‐PCR analysis revealed that the AMY1 mRNA level increased over 240‐fold between 4‐ and 8‐week‐old plants, suggesting that AMY1 expression is regulated at the level of transcription (Fig. 3b).  [[FIGURE]] Leaf senescence is an organized developmental programme influenced by plant age as well as environmental conditions such as nutrient supply, shading or temperature (Park et al. 1998; Quirino, Normanly & Amasino 1999; Buchanan‐Wollaston et al. 2003; Lim, Woo & Nam 2003). Phytohormones such as ABA, ethylene or methyl jasmonate can also induce senescence (Park et al. 1998). Certain stresses and hormones such as ABA are also able to induce genes that are directly responsive to those treatments (Weaver et al. 1998). Because many senescence‐associated genes (SAGs) are regulated by ABA (Park et al. 1998; Weaver et al. 1998), we tested the effect of ABA on the levels of A1 activity and AMY1 mRNA levels. When detached leaves were floated on 50 µM ABA for 48 h, the level of A1 activity increased slightly after the first 6 h of treatment and dramatically after 2 d, while the levels of other starch‐degrading activities remained constant (Fig. 3c). In control leaves treated with the same level of ethanol used to dissolve the ABA, A1 activity did not change over the 2 d period. The ABA effect could be observed with as little as 1 µM ABA, but with 10 and 100 µM ABA the induction was much stronger (Fig. 3d). Q‐PCR revealed that 48 h after spraying with 100 µM ABA, the level of the AMY1 mRNA increased almost 300‐fold in 4‐week‐old plants, while in 6‐week and 8‐week‐old plants the levels of AMY1 mRNA increased 1200‐fold and 3400‐fold, respectively (Fig. 3e).  ABA accumulates in plants in response to a wide range of biotic and abiotic stresses, and in turn it regulates a large number of genes (Hoth et al. 2002). We examined two such stresses that we reasoned would induce AMY1 and lead to cell death or membrane leakage such that the secreted amylase might gain access to starch and influence cell survival, infection by a bacterial pathogen and heat stress. Leaves of 3‐week‐old wild‐type plants were pressure‐infiltrated with 104 or 108 cfu mL–1 of P. syringae pv. tomato DC3000 expressing avrRpm1. This bacterial strain induces localized and systemic disease resistance in Arabidopsis Col‐0 plants containing the RPM1 resistance protein. Leaves were inoculated with P. syringae pv. tomato (avrRpm1) at a low inoculum (104 cfu mL–1) to monitor any slow changes in amylase activity that might occur over time. In contrast, leaves were inoculated with a high concentration (108 cfu mL–1) of the bacteria to induce a rapid, localized cell death response (referred to as the HR) and systemic acquired resistance. In leaves infected with the low dose of bacteria, A1 was elevated 4 d after inoculation as compared with mock‐inoculated leaves (Fig. 3f). Leaves infiltrated with the high dose of bacteria exhibited HR within 48 h. After 4 d, A1 activity was induced in the uninfected leaves of the same plant (Fig. 3g), indicating that pathogen‐induced disease resistance led to systemic A1 induction. While inductions of A1 activity were moderate, they were consistently observed in repeated experiments.  Heat stress also led to elevated A1 activity. After 16 h in darkness at 37 °C, amylase A1 was induced as compared with plants held in darkness at 24 °C (Fig. 3h). In order to determine if the A1 enzyme itself was heat stable, we prepared a crude leaf extract in water (1:1, w/v) to mimic the conditions in a dead cell milieu, where no buffer, no additional ions, reductant or protease inhibitors would be found. When held at 37 °C for up to 60 min, we could detect no major differences in the type or quantity of starch hydrolases in a native gel (Fig. 3i). At 45 °C, the red band was lost by 30 min, while A1 and A3 activities were unchanged after 60 min. At 65 °C, only amylase A1 activity was resistant to heat denaturation.  Because the expression of the AMY1 gene was induced both by senescence and by infection with avirulent P. syringae pv. tomato (avrRpm1), we decided to investigate the level of expression in the cpr5‐2 mutant of Arabidopsis, which constitutively expresses systemic acquired resistance (Bowling et al. 1997) and is hypersenescent (Yoshida et al. 2002). Q‐PCR revealed that the expression of the AMY1 gene was up‐regulated 40‐fold in 5‐week‐old cpr5‐2 plants relative to wild‐type plants of the same age (Fig. 4).  [[FIGURE]] Despite numerous attempts, we have not been able to observe consistent phenotypic differences between wild‐type and AMY1‐deficient mutants in terms of their starch levels throughout senescence, in response to stress or ABA treatment, or in the growth of avirulent P. syringae pv. tomato (avrRpm1) in infected leaves (data not shown). 
!~MM~!  Arabidopsis thaliana, ecotype Columbia (Col‐0), plants were grown at 24 °C with 12 h of illumination (300–350 µmol m–2 s–1) on a growth cart (Grower's Supply Co., Ann Arbor, MI, USA). The growth medium was Sunshine Mix #1 or Sunshine Mix #3 (Sun Gro Horticulture Inc., Bellevue, WA, USA), supplemented with macronutrients and micronutrients as described by Lehle Seeds (Round Rock, TX, USA). The cpr5‐2 Arabidopsis mutant line (stock number CS3770), as well as the T‐DNA insertion mutants amy1‐1 (SALK_094382) and amy1‐2 (SALK_014462), was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC) (Columbus, OH, USA) and was grown under the same conditions described earlier. Sites of the T‐DNA insertions were verified by PCR and by sequencing, which was performed at the Center for Molecular Neurobiology at Ohio State University (Columbus, OH, USA).  For abscisic acid (ABA) treatments of detached leaves, leaves were floated abaxial side up on sterile water supplemented with ABA or on the same concentration of ethanol used to dissolve the ABA (1% v/v), and maintained in the same growth conditions in which the plants were grown. For ABA treatments of whole plants, plants were sprayed for two consecutive days with 100 µ M ABA or with the same concentration of ethanol used to dissolve the ABA (1% v/v).  To clone the AMY1 gene into pCAMBIA1302 (Roberts et al. 1998), an internal Nco I was first eliminated using PCR mutagenesis. Internal primers homologous to the AMY1 gene and overlapping the Nco I site were created. Two PCR reactions were prepared, one with AMY1 F (5′‐TACCATGGCTACATCTCTCCATA‐3′) and Nco R (5′‐CAAATCTCCAACCGTGGAATC‐3′) primers and one with AMY1 R (5′‐TAACTAGTCTTCTTCTCCCAG‐3′) and Nco F (5′‐GAAATCGGATTCCACGGTTG‐3′) primers. The Arabidopsis cDNA template was prepared from senescent leaf tissue using total RNA from the Col‐0 ecotype of Arabidopsis. The cycling conditions for the AMY1 F and Nco R primers were 94 °C for 30 s, 55 °C for 30 s, 72 °C for 2 min, for 30 cycles. When primers AMY1 R and Nco F were used, the annealing temperature was lowered to 52 °C. Following gel purification, the two PCR fragments were combined in one PCR reaction. For the first 10 cycles of PCR, no additional primers were added. After 10 cycles, primers AMY1 F, AMY1 R (0.2 mM each), 0.2 mM dNTPs, and 1 Unit of Taq polymerase were added. The PCR cycling conditions were as follows: 94 °C for 30 s, 45 °C for 30 s, 72 °C for 2 min, for 10 cycles and then 94 °C for 30 s. The resulting product was cloned into pCR II‐TOPO (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA). A double restriction digest was performed on the resulting plasmid using the restriction enzymes Spe I and Nco I (New England Biolabs, Ipsvoich, MA, USA). The AMY1 insert was gel purified and ligated with pCAMBIA1302 vector that had also been digested with Nco I and Spe I, using a quick ligation kit (New England BioLabs). The presence of an insert was confirmed with PCR and restriction digests. The resulting AMY1‐GFP construct and unmodified pCAMBIA1302 were then transformed independently into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain gr3101P as previously described (Tzfira et al. 1997). The presence of the plasmids in A. tumefaciens was confirmed by PCR and restriction analysis. Transgenic Arabidopsis Col‐0 and amy1‐2 plants were then generated using Agrobacterium‐mediated floral spray transformation as previously described (Chung, Chen & Pan 2000). PCR was used to identify homozygous T2 lines for further analysis.  Protoplasts were prepared from leaves of 6‐ to 8‐week‐old plants, according to the method of Katagiri (2002). Protoplasting enzymes (macerase, cellulysin) were obtained from EMB Biosciences (San Diego, CA, USA). Protoplasts were washed in 154 mM NaCl, 125 mM CaCl2, 5 mM KCl, 5 mM glucose, 1.5 mM MES, pH 5.6, resuspended in native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) loading buffer (Dinges et al. 2001) and then electrophoresed on native, starch‐containing gels as described next.  To analyse plants for starch‐degrading activity, native PAGE was conducted using a method modified from Dinges et al. (2001). Resolving gels contained 7% acrylamide (30:0.8 acrylamide‐bisacrylamide used throughout), 375 mM Tris, pH 8.8 and 0.3% starch, while stacking gels contained 4% acrylamide and 63 mM Tris, pH 6.8. To prepare the samples, leaf tissue was combined with 1 µL of loading buffer (4.5% glycerol, 17.5 mM Tris, 134 mM glycine, pH 8.8, 2 mg mL–1 bromphenol blue) per milligram leaf tissue and homogenized in 1.5 mL tubes. Equal leaf weights were electrophoresed at constant current of 18–20 mA at 4 °C in an electrode buffer of 25 mM Tris, 192 mM glycine, pH 8.8. After the dye front ran off of the gels, the gels were run for an additional 40 min. Gels were incubated in an assay buffer (50 mM sodium acetate, 5 mM CaCl2, pH 5.2) at 37 °C for 6 h to overnight. After incubation, the gels were rinsed with deionized water and then stained with iodine (5.7 mM I2, 43.4 mM KI, 0.2 M HCl). Following staining, the gels were either photographed using a digital camera or scanned with a flatbed scanner, resulting in subtle differences in gel appearance and colouration.  Protein gel blots were performed to determine if the transgenic plants contained GFP. Leaf discs were obtained with a #5 cork borer, frozen in liquid nitrogen and then ground to a powder. To each leaf disc, 100 µL of sodium dodecyl sulphate (SDS) loading buffer (Laemmli 1970) supplemented with 6 M urea was added and the powder was extracted. The extracts were boiled for 5 min and then centrifuged for 5 min in a microcentrifuge at 14 000 g. Proteins were separated using 10% SDS‐PAGE and transferred to nitrocellulose membranes in 10 mM cyclohexylaminopropane sulfonic acid (CAPS) (pH 11) and 10% methanol. Membranes were blocked overnight at 4 °C in TBST (0.5 M NaCl, 20 mM Tris, pH 7.5, 0.05% Tween‐20) supplemented with 5% (w/v) fat‐free dry milk powder and 1% (v/v) goat serum (Sigma, St. Louis, MO, USA). Membranes were then incubated in 1:1000 monoclonal anti‐GFP (Becton Dickinson Biosciences, Palo Alto, CA, USA) in the same blocking buffer for 1 h at room temperature. The membranes were washed with TBST three times for 5 min each and then incubated in 1:3000 goat anti‐mouse horseradish peroxidase conjugate (Bio‐Rad Laboratories, Hercules, CA, USA) in TBST supplemented with 5% (w/v) fat‐free dry milk powder for 30 min at room temperature. After washing in TBST as before, the membranes were incubated in ECL Western Blotting Detection Reagent (GE Healthcare Bio‐Sciences, Piscataway, NJ, USA) according to manufacturer's instructions, exposed to X‐ray film and then developed.  For GFP localization experiments, leaves were pressure‐infiltrated by syringe with water or water containing 500 µg mL–1 proteinase K in the presence and absence of 1% Triton X‐100 (w/v). After 30 min at 24 °C, the leaf discs were obtained with a #5 cork borer, frozen, and then processed for protein gel blotting as described earlier. For the Triton X‐100‐treated samples, leaves were heated to 70 °C for 5 min prior to extraction. To determine the effect of Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato infection on A1 levels, P. syringae pv. tomato DC3000 pVSP61 (avrRpm1) were grown on Pseudomonas Agar F (Fisher Scientific, Pittsburgh, PA, USA) supplemented with 50 µg mL–1 kanamycin and 100 µg mL–1 rifampicin at 28 °C. Cells were resuspended in 1 mM MgCl2 and pressure‐infiltrated by syringe at a density of 104 or 108 cfu mL–1 into leaves of 3‐ to 4‐week‐old wild‐type plants. Leaves that were infiltrated with the low dose were extracted after 4 d for native gel assays. For systemic analyses, two leaves per plant were infiltrated with the high dose of cells and after 4 d, the other leaves on the plants were extracted for native gel assays.  RNA was extracted from leaf tissue with RNAwiz reagent or Tri reagent (Ambion, Austin, TX, USA) according to the manufacturer's instructions and treated with DNA‐free (Ambion), using the manufacturer's protocol for rigorous treatment, to remove residual genomic DNA. Total RNA (1.5 µg) was transcribed into cDNA with the iScript cDNA synthesis system (Bio‐Rad). The DyNAmo SybrGreen qPCR kit (New England Biolabs, Ipswich, MA, USA) was used with an Opticon 2 DNA engine (Bio‐Rad) for quantitative PCR. Triplicate reactions with two primer sets were set up for cDNA samples and for the corresponding ‘no RT’ controls. The cDNA reactions were diluted 1:1 and 5 µL was used in each qPCR reaction. Primers for the AMY1 gene were as follows: At‐AMY1‐F, 5′‐CTTTGGCTTCCTCCTCCTTCTCAA‐3′ and At‐AMY1‐R, 5′‐CTTTCCTCTCAGCTGTTCTGTGGT‐3′. A second primer set amplified a product from the A. thaliana L23a gene (GenBank Accession Number AF034694), a ribosomal protein gene that served as the calibrator sample. Primers for the L23a gene were as follows: AtL23a‐F, 5′‐AGTACCCACTCACCACTGAATCTG‐3′ and AtL23a‐R, 5′‐TCTGGTGTAAGCCTCATGTAAGCC‐3. Cycling conditions were 95 °C, 10 s; 60 °C, 20 s; 72 °C, 20 s for 40 cycles. Relative levels of gene expression were calculated using the comparative CT method (ΔΔCT method, Applied Biosystems 1997). 
