!~ABS~!  Arabidopsis mitochondria are predicted to contain three acyl carrier proteins (ACPs). These small proteins are involved in fatty acid and lipoic acid synthesis in other organisms and have been previously reported to be subunits of respiratory Complex I in mitochondria in mammals, fungi and plants. Recently, the mammalian mitochondrial ACP (mtACP) has been shown to be largely a soluble matrix protein but also to be minimally associated with Complex I (Cronan et al. CITATION), consistent with its involvement in synthesis of lipoic acid for TCA cycle decarboxylating dehydrogenases in the matrix but contrary to earlier claims it was primarily a Complex I subunit. We have investigated the localization of the ACPs in Arabidopsis mitochondria. Evidence is presented that mtACP1 and mtACP2 dominate the ACP composition in Arabidopsis mitochondria, and both are present in the mitochondrial matrix rather than in the membrane. No significant amounts of mtACPs were detected in Complex I isolated by blue native gel electrophoresis, rather mtACPs were detected at low molecular mass in the soluble fraction, showing that in A. thaliana mtACPs are predominately free soluble matrix proteins.
!~RES~! The genome of A. thaliana putatively encodes 3 mitochondrial forms of ACP namely mtACP1 (At2g44620), mtACP2 (At1g65290) and mtACP3 (At5g47630). The analysis of the EST data shows that expression of mtACP1 > mtACP2 > mtACP3 (55, 42 and 17 ESTs respectively). On microarrays, mtACP3 is barely detectible with an average signal intensity of less than 100, while mtACP1 and mtACP2 have average signals of over 1,000 (TAIR locus pages at http://www.arabidopsis.org). Analysis of MPSS data for the three genes shows a ratio of 20:12:1 for mtACP2:mtACP1:mtACP3, respectively, for the abundance of unique signature sequences across different developmental tissues (http://mpss.udel.edu/at/). Altogether these data indicated that mtACP1 and mtACP2 are the main mtACPs in Arabidopsis as they are much more expressed than mtACP3. It is presumed based on antibody studies (Shintani and Ohlrogge CITATION) and by similarity to Complex I subunits in mammals (Carroll et al. CITATION) that at least one mtACP is a subunit of Complex I in protist (Cardol et al. CITATION) and in plants (Heazlewood et al. CITATION). In Neurospora crassa loss of ACP leads to loss of assembly of Complex I (Schneider et al. CITATION). If a mtACP is present in Arabidopsis Complex I or linked to Complex I function, its gene would likely be co-expressed with genes encoding Complex I subunits. We looked for genes co-expressed with the 3 mtACPs genes by using ATTED-II (http://www.atted.bio.titech.ac.jp). This software uses public microarray data and calculates the average expression correlation to a query gene. The expression of mtACP1 is correlated with the expression of a number of genes encoding Complex I subunits (8 genes, 36.4 % of the 22 loci with a correlation >0.65), but this list also contains other respiratory complex subunits from the F1FO ATP synthase and cytochrome c oxidase. On the other hand, mtACP2 is not co-expressed with Complex I and with very few other respiratory chain complexes subunits (2 loci, 2.3 % of the 85 with a correlation >0.65). Similarly mtACP3 is co-expressed with only 1 gene encoding a Complex I subunit (0.5% of the 191 genes with a correlation >0.65). These data show that among the mtACPs, mtACP1 is the most likely to be linked functionally or structurally with Complex I. All three mtACPs are consistently co-expressed with genes encoding ribosomal proteins and mitochondrial import translocases components, all proteins that have a housekeeping function for mitochondrial function and proliferation. Thus, mtACPs might have a housekeeping function, which would be consistent with a role in fatty acid or lipoic acid biosynthesis. Moreover mtACP1 could be involved in a more specific function that would be related to respiratory complexes biogenesis, as postulated previously in N. crassa (Plesofsky et al. CITATION). In bovine, mtACP that was originally identified in Complex I (Carroll et al. CITATION) was recently reported as mostly a soluble protein of the matrix (Cronan et al. CITATION). As no mtACPs were identified in the analysis of Arabidopsis Complex I composition (Heazlewood et al. CITATION), we decided to investigate the localisation of mtACP within Arabidopsis mitochondria. We obtained antibodies raised against Arabidopsis mtACP1 (Shintani and Ohlrogge CITATION). These antibodies have been previously used to show that a mtACP was associated with purified potato Complex I (Rasmusson et al. CITATION). We isolated mitochondria from Arabidopsis cell culture and fractionated them into a soluble and a membrane fraction. A western blot using the anti-mtACP1 antibodies show that more than 90% of ACP is present in the soluble fraction (Fig. 1). The lowest band presumably corresponds to the acylated form of mtACP described previously (Shintani and Ohlrogge CITATION). The membrane fraction was free of soluble proteins as no signal was detected for the H-protein of the glycine decarboxylase complex stained using an antibody directed against the lipoic acid. No detergent were used during the fractionation process, so it is very unlikely that Complex I was solubilized or that a sub-complex of Complex I was released in the soluble fraction. This was confirmed by the control western blot using anti-NAD9 antibodies. NAD9 is a subunit of Complex I that is located in the matrix arm of this complex (Lamattina et al. CITATION). As 95% of NAD9 was present in the membrane fraction, Complex I was not significantly dissociated by the fractionation. Thus the soluble form(s) of ACP detected are not a by-product of Complex I disruption. The controls used show that even though the soluble fraction is slightly contaminated with the membrane fraction, this cannot explain the levels of mtACP immuno-detected in the soluble fraction if this protein was a membrane protein. Thus it appears the ACP proteins detected by the mtACP1 antibodies are predominantly soluble proteins in mitochondria. [[FIGURE]]  In order to define whether the ACP2 was also recognized by the antibodies, we loaded the soluble and the membrane fractions on 2-dimensional gels (Fig. 2A,B). After transfer of the proteins on a membrane and western blotting with the anti-mtACP1 antibodies, two proteins were stained by the antibodies in the soluble fraction (Fig. 2C) but not in the membrane fraction (Fig. 2D). We used mass spectrometry in an attempt to identify the proteins recognized by the antibodies. No specific peptides corresponding to mtACP1 were identified in the analysis of the two immunodetected spots (Fig. 2E). The lower molecular weight protein (Spot 1) was identified as mtACP2 (Table 1), indicating that the antibodies are able to recognized mtACP2. The higher molecular weight protein (Spot 2) was not a visible spot on the total protein stained gel and yielded no significant match in mass spectrometry analysis. The surrounding visible spots present at the vicinity of antibody staining (Fig. 2E) were also analysed and identified by mass spectrometry but none represented mtACP1 (data not shown). As the spot corresponding to mtACP2 is not visible in the membrane fraction (Fig. 2F), we conclude that mtACP2 is a protein mostly found in the soluble fraction of mitochondria. [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] We also investigated the proteomes of the matrix and of the inner mitochondrial membrane by a non-gel complex mixture LC-MS/MS analysis. The only mtACP specifically detected was mtACP2; it was identified in the matrix fractions of three independent analyses but not in three inner membrane fractions (Table 2). In contrast, of the 17 subunits of Complex I detected in the membrane fractions, only two were detected in the soluble fraction and these were found as fewer peptides with lower scores in the mass spectral analysis suggesting much lower abundance of these subunits in the soluble fraction. Altogether, these results indicate that mtACP2 is present predominantly in the soluble rather than membrane fraction of mitochondria, and the antibodies specifically raised to mtACP1 (Shintani and Ohlrogge CITATION) recognize two proteins, one is mtACP2, and both cross-reacting proteins are soluble rather than in the membrane. [[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] In order to investigate the possibility in Arabidopsis that a small proportion of mtACP1 or mtACP2 might be a Complex I subunit, we separated the soluble and membrane fraction extracted from Arabidopsis mitochondria by blue-native electrophoresis (Fig. 3A). The complexes were transferred on a membrane and probed with anti-mtACP1 antibodies. No complexes containing mtACP were detected in the membrane fraction, whereas a ∼700 kDa complex appeared to be detected in the soluble fraction (Fig. 3B). As some antigens might be hidden under native conditions, we ran a second dimension to separate the different subunits present in the complexes of the membrane fraction. After transfer of the soluble proteins onto a PVDF membrane and blotting with the anti-mtACP1 antibodies, only a very faint signal at the vertical position corresponding to the apparent ∼700 kDa complex was detected on the second dimension. The major immune signal was detected in the bottom of the BN gel where proteins are not associated in complexes (Fig. 3E). This result was obtained in multiple experiments from samples run in BN gels and replicate lanes from the same BN gel blotted or run in 2D BN-SDS PAGE gels and blotted. It appears that the anti-ACP antibodies faintly recognize a native epitope present in the major HSP60 complex in the soluble extract, but this epitope is lost in denaturing conditions, while the ACP antigens recognized by the antibodies are not accessible under the native conditions, but are revealed on subsequent SDS-PAGE. A similar analysis of the membrane proteins revealed the typical pattern of high molecular mass respiratory complexes (Fig. 3D), but anti-mtACP antibodies failed to recognize any bands on the 2D BN-SDS PAGE (Fig. 3F). This result, coupled to our previously published systematic analysis of the Complex I by mass spectrometry that failed to find either mtACP (Heazlewood et al. CITATION), indicate that mtACP2 is almost certainly not a Complex I subunit in Arabidopsis mitochondria, and that there is still no real evidence, other than hints from co-expression analysis, that mtACP1 in linked physically or functionally to Complex I. [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! Protoplasts were isolated for 7-days-old cell culture (Sakamoto et al. CITATION). Mitochondria were purified by differential centrifugations followed by Percoll step gradients (Millar et al. CITATION). Purified mitochondria were resuspended to a concentration of 5 mg/mL in TE buffer (20 mM Tris–HCl pH 7.5, 5 mM EDTA) and subjected to three freeze/thaw cycles. After centrifugation 20 min at 20,000 g, the pellet, containing the membrane fraction was resuspended to a concentration of 10 mg/mL in TE buffer. The supernatant was saved as soluble fraction. The buffer in the soluble fraction was exchanged with BN buffer (30 mM HEPES pH 7.4, 150 mM Potassium acetate, 10% (w/v) glycerol) using a spin column (Millipore). During this step the concentration was adjusted at 5 mg/mL. Proteins from the different fractions (20 μg) were separated on 12% acrylamide SDS-PAGE (Laemmli CITATION). Purified mitochondria were centrifuged 10 min at 20,000 g and the pellet was resuspended in Low Osmotic Buffer (50 mM sucrose, 2 mM EDTA, 10 mM MOPS, pH 6.7) and incubated 30 min at 4°C with low agitation. The sucrose concentration was then adjusted to 0.3 M using a 2 M stock solution. The mitoplasts obtained were subjected to three freeze/thaw cycles and the suspension was centrifuged 20 min at 20,000 g. The pellet, corresponding to the inner membrane was resuspended at a concentration of 10 mg/mL in 0.3 M sucrose, 10 mM MES pH 7.2. The supernatant, assimilated to the matrix, was concentrated to a concentration of 5 mg/mL using a spin column (Millipore). Protein samples (500 μg) were precipitated using acetone (final concentration of 80% (v/v)), stored at −20°C for 4 h and then centrifuged at 20,000 g for 15 min. The pellets were resuspended in IEF sample buffer (6 M urea, 2 M thiourea, 2% (w/v) CHAPS, 2% (v/v) ampholytes (pH 3–10), 2 mM tributylphosphine, and 0.001% (w/v) bromophenol blue). Aliquots of 360 μL were used to reswell dried 180 mm, nonlinear immobilized pH gradient strips (pH 3–10; Immobiline DryStrips, APBiotech, Sydney) overnight, and then IEF was performed reaching a total of 50 kV h−1 at 20°C on a flat-bed electrophoresis unit (Multiphor II, APBiotech). Immobilized pH gradient strips were then incubated for 50 min in an equilibration buffer (50 mM Tris–HCl (pH 6.8), 4 M urea, 2% (w/v) SDS, 0.001% (w/v) Bromophenol blue, and 100 mM mercaptoethanol). The equilibrated strips were then loaded on top of 12% acrylamide SDS-PAGE. Proteins were visualized by colloidal Coomassie (G250) staining. BN-PAGE was performed according to Jansch et al. (CITATION). Gels consisted of a separating gel (4.5–16% (w/v) acrylamide) and a stacking gel (4% (w/v) acrylamide) formed in a solution of 0.25 M ε-amino-n-caproic acid and 25 mM Bis-Tris–HCl (pH 7.0). The anode buffer consisted of 50 mM Tricine, 15 mM Bis-Tris–HCl, 0.02% (w/v) Coomassie Blue G250 (pH 7.0) and the cathode buffer of 50 mM Bis-Tris–HCl (pH 7.0). Aliquots of 500 μg of membrane protein were centrifuged at 20,000 g for 10 min and the pellets were resuspended in 50 μL of solubilization buffer (30 mM HEPES pH 7.4, 150 mM Potassium acetate, 10% (w/v) glycerol, 5% (w/v) digitonine). After centrifugation 10 min at 20,000 g, 5 μL of 5% (w/v) Coomassie Blue G250 was added to the supernatants. 5 μL of 5% (w/v) Coomasie Blue G250 was added to 100 μL (500 μg) of the soluble fraction. Gels were run at 4°C. Electrophoresis was commenced at 100 V constant voltage for 45 min, and then increased to 15 mA without voltage limitation for 8 h. For second dimension SDS gels, excised BN lanes were equilibrated in SDS-PAGE loading buffer, placed horizontally above a 12% acrylamide SDS-PAGE and separated under standard conditions. Proteins were visualized by colloidal Coomassie (G250) staining. Proteins separated by BN-PAGE or SDS-PAGE were electroblotted onto PVDF membrane (Immobilon-P, Millipore). Western blot analysis was performed using an ECL Detection System (Amersham) with goat anti-rabbit antibodies conjugated to peroxidase as a secondary antibody. The anti-mtACP1 antibodies were a gift from Prof John Ohlrogge (Department of Plant Biology, Michigan State University, MI, USA) and were used at a dilution of 1/1000. The following antibodies were used as controls: antibody against wheat subunit 9 of NADH dehydrogenase (Nad9) as a peripheral protein of Complex I of the inner membrane (Lamattina et al. CITATION); anti- lipoic acid serum (Humphries and Szweda CITATION) which recognizes the H protein of the matrix glycine decarboxylase complex (Millar and Leaver CITATION). For liquid chromatography–tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis of matrix and inner membrane samples, 200 μg aliquots of protein were acetone precipitated at −20°C overnight. After centrifugation 20 min at 20,000 g, the pellet was resuspended in 100 mM Tris–HCl pH 8.5. The protein extract was digested overnight at 37°C with trypsin 1:10 (w/w), and insoluble material was removed by centrifugation. Samples of 50 μg were analyzed on a QStar Pulsar MS/MS system (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA) using an in-line Agilent 1100 capillary LC system incorporating a 0.3 × 150 mm Zorbax C18 reverse-phase column (Agilent, Palo Alto, CA) for peptide separations. Peptides were analyzed by MS over a 6 h elution period with increasing acetonitrile concentrations from 5 to 60% (v/v) in water and 0.1% (v/v) formic acid at 4 μL/min. Ions were selected automatically for the N2 collision cell using the Analyst QS software package (Applied Biosystems). The resulting MS/MS-derived spectra were analyzed against an in-house database comprising ATH1.pep (release 6) from The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR) and the mitochondrial and plastid protein sets (TAIR). Searches were conducted at error tolerances of ± 1.2 Da for MS and ± 0.1 Da for MS/MS, ‘Max Missed Cleavages’ set to 1, the Oxidation (M) variable modification using Mascot search engine (Matrix Sciences). Results were filtered using ‘MudPIT scoring’, ‘Max. number of hits’ set to AUTO, ‘Significance threshold’ at P < 0.05 and ‘Ions score cut-off’ at 0. Protein samples to be analyzed from gels were excised from the gel, destained in 25 mM Na2HCO3, 50% (v/v) acetonitrile and dried at 50°C in a dry block heater and re-hydrated with 15 μL digestion solution (10 mM NH4CO3 and 12.5 μg/ml trypsin in 0.01% trifluoroacetic acid) and incubated overnight at 37°C. Samples were loaded onto self packed Microsorb (Varian Inc.) C18 (5 μm, 100 Å) reverse phase columns (0.5 × 50 mm) using an Agilent Technologies 1,100 series capillary liquid chromatography system and eluted into a XCT Ultra IonTrap mass spectrometer with an ESI source equipped with a low flow nebuliser in positive mode and controlled by Chemstation (Rev B.01.03 [204]: Agilent Technologies) and MSD Trap Control v 6.0 (Build 38.15) software (Bruker Daltonik GmbH). Peptides were eluted from the C18 reveres phase column at 10 μL/min using a 9 min acetonitrile gradient (5–60%) in 0.1% formic acid at a regulated temperature of 50°C. Resulting MS/MS spectra were exported from the Data Analysis for LC/MSD Trap version 3.3 (Build 149) software package (Bruker Daltonik GmbH) using default parameters for AutoMS(n) and compound Export. Extracted results were queried against the Arabidopsis protein set (see above) using the Mascot search engine (Matrix Science) utilizing error tolerances of ±1.2 for MS and ±0.6 for MS/MS, ‘Max Missed Cleavages’ set to 1, with variable modifications of Oxidation (M), Carboxymethyl (C), Instrument set to ESI-TRAP and Peptide charge set at 2+ and 3+. Results were filtered using ‘Standard scoring’, ‘Max. number of hits’ set to 20, ‘Significance threshold’ at P < 0.05 and ‘Ions score cut-off’ at 0.
