!~ABS~! Phosphatidylserine (PS) decarboxylase is involved in the synthesis of the abundant phospholipid phosphatidylethanolamine (PE), particularly in mitochondria, in many organisms, including yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) and animals. Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) contains three genes with sequence similarity to PS decarboxylases, and the respective gene products were functionally characterized after heterologous expression in yeast and Escherichia coli. While the PSD1 protein localizes to mitochondria, PSD2 and PSD3 are found in the endomembrane system. To study the role of PSD genes in plant phospholipid metabolism, Arabidopsis insertional mutants for psd1, psd2, and psd3 were obtained. The single mutants were decreased in PS decarboxylase activity to various extents, but mutant plants showed no obvious growth or morphological phenotype. A triple mutant, psd1 psd2 psd3, was generated that was totally devoid of PS decarboxylase activity. While the phospholipid composition in whole leaves was unchanged, the PE content in isolated mitochondria of psd1 psd2 psd3 was decreased. Therefore, the predominant proportion of PE in Arabidopsis is synthesized by alternative pathways, but a significant amount of mitochondrial PE is derived from the PS decarboxylase reaction. These results imply that, similar to yeast and animal cells, a specific phospholipid transfer from the endoplasmic reticulum to mitochondria exists in plants.
!~RES~! In many eukaryotic organisms, mitochondrial PS decarboxylase is involved in the synthesis of a major proportion of cellular PE. Mitochondrial PS decarboxylases were identified in yeast, Chinese hamster, tomato, and Arabidopsis (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; Fig. 1 ). Furthermore, bacterial PS decarboxylases with close sequence similarity to mitochondrial PSD forms were identified in E. coli and B. subtilis (CITATION; CITATION). Yeast contains a second PS decarboxylase, PSD2, that localizes to the Golgi/tonoplast and harbors a long N-terminal extension (CITATION). In addition to PSD1, the genomic sequence of Arabidopsis contains two further loci with sequence similarity to PS decarboxylases, At5g57190 and At4g25970 (CITATION), which were tentatively designated PSD2 and PSD3 (Fig. 1). The predicted amino acid sequences of these genes were very similar (amino acid identity of 76%) and more related to the yeast PSD2 protein than to the mitochondrial PSD1 proteins from plants or other organisms. Furthermore, similar to yeast PSD2, the two Arabidopsis proteins PSD2 and PSD3 contained long N-terminal extensions (Fig. 1). [[FIGURE]] To functionally characterize the putative PS decarboxylases PSD2 and PSD3 from Arabidopsis, the respective cDNAs were heterologously expressed in psd mutants of yeast and E. coli. A yeast double mutant (psd1 psd2) deficient in both PSD genes is unable to synthesize PE via the PS decarboxylase pathway. This mutant is auxotroph for ethanolamine because PE can be synthesized from ethanolamine via the Kennedy pathway. Transformation of the yeast psd1 psd2 mutant with plasmids harboring the Arabidopsis PSD2 or PSD3 cDNAs restored growth on ethanolamine-free medium, indicating that these two sequences encode functional PS decarboxylases (Fig. 2A ). An alternative strategy to study PS decarboxylase activity is the complementation of the E. coli EH150 mutant, which carries a temperature-sensitive mutation in its single psd gene. To address the question whether the C-terminal part of PSD3 carrying the PS decarboxylase sequence domain is sufficient to encode a functionally active enzyme, the entire PSD3 cDNA or its C-terminal part (starting at Ser-352; Fig. 1) was transferred into the E. coli mutant EH150. Proteins were isolated from the EH150 mutant carrying the Arabidopsis PSD3 constructs, and PS decarboxylase activity measured at 42°C with radioactively labeled PS. Figure 2B shows that PS decarboxylase activity in EH150 cells transformed with an empty vector or with the full-length Arabidopsis PSD3 cDNA was low as compared to cells harboring the N-terminally truncated form. Therefore, the C-terminal, PSD-like part of Arabidopsis PSD3 encodes a functionally active PS decarboxylase, and the long N terminal is not required for enzymatic activity but has an inhibitory effect when expressed in E. coli. [[FIGURE]] The fact that the two Arabidopsis PS decarboxylases PSD2 and PSD3 contain a long N-terminal extension might suggest that these two proteins do not localize to mitochondria. The full-length sequences of PSD2 and PSD3 were N-terminally fused to the sequence of the GFP and transiently expressed in Arabidopsis leaves. As a control, a GFP fusion construct of the mitochondrial PS decarboxylase (PSD1) from Arabidopsis was employed. Analysis by confocal microscopy and comparison to control constructs revealed that the PSD1-GFP fusion protein accumulated in mitochondria in agreement with previous results (Fig. 3, A and B ; CITATION). In contrast, the localization pattern of PSD2-GFP and PSD3-GPF fusion proteins was different. For PSD2-GFP, a colocalization experiment was done of a red fluorescent protein (DsRed) fusion with a tonoplast control protein. The green and red fluorescence of the two proteins was largely overlapping, indicating that PSD2 localizes to the tonoplast (Fig. 3, C and D). Furthermore, comparison of the fluorescence of the PSD3-GFP construct with that of a GFP fusion with an ER control protein revealed that PSD3 most likely localizes to the ER (Fig. 3, E and F). Therefore, the two PS decarboxylases PSD2 and PSD3 were localized to endomembrane fraction, presumably to the tonoplast and ER, respectively. [[FIGURE]] Expression of PS decarboxylase genes in different plant organs was analyzed by northern hybridization and semiquantitative PCR analysis. In agreement with previous results (CITATION), the mitochondrial PSD1 was found to be expressed in roots and to a lesser extent in stems and leaves (Fig. 4A ). PSD1 expression was highest in flowers but very low in siliques. PSD3 expression was comparable in roots, stems, leaves, and flowers, but very low in siliques (Fig. 4C). Because of the high sequence similarity with PSD3 and the low expression level, it was not possible to detect PSD2 expression by northern hybridization (data not shown). Therefore, a specific PSD2 primer pair was designed for semiquantitative reverse transcription (RT)-PCR to distinguish between PSD2 and PSD3 mRNA expression. As shown in Figure 4B, PSD2 expression was highest in flowers and lower in leaves. Expression in roots, shoots, and siliques was very low when measured by RT-PCR. [[FIGURE]] To study the role of PS decarboxylase in plant lipid metabolism, a reverse genetic approach was chosen. To this end, T-DNA insertion mutant lines for the three PSD genes were selected from different Arabidopsis mutant populations (Fig. 5A ). One mutant line, psd1, was found in the SALK population. Screening of the Madison T-DNA insertion population resulted in the identification of two mutant lines, psd2-1 and psd3-1. Two additional mutant alleles, psd2-2 and psd2-3, were obtained from Syngenta. Sequencing of PCR fragments revealed that the insertions in all mutant plants are localized in exons or introns between the start and stop codons (Fig. 5A). Homozygous lines for all mutant alleles were identified by PCR, segregation analysis, and Southern-blot hybridization using genomic PSD fragments as probes (data not shown). PSD mRNA abundance in psd mutants was analyzed to unravel whether there still was residual expression (Fig. 5B). For psd1, northern hybridization was done with total RNA from flowers because PSD1 expression was high in flowers (see Fig. 4). PSD1 expression in the psd1 mutant was not detectable, in contrast to wild type, where a clear band was identified. Northern hybridization of leaf RNA revealed that one band corresponding to PSD3 was detectable in wild type, but this band was absent from the psd3-1 mutant (Fig. 5B). PSD2 expression was analyzed by RT-PCR of leaf RNA and PCR fragments separated by agarose gel electrophoresis. A band for PSD2 was observed in wild type, but this band was absent from psd2-1. In conclusion, the mRNA of the respective PSD genes was shown to be absent from the psd1, psd2-1, and psd3-1 mutant lines, indicating that these insertion lines represent null alleles. [[FIGURE]] Growth and morphology of the different mutant lines was indistinguishable from the respective wild-type ecotypes, indicating that single mutations in PSD genes have no effect on overall plant physiology. To address the question whether the different PS decarboxylase forms are functionally redundant, double mutants were generated by crosses between the psd2-1 and psd3-1 as well as the psd2-2 and psd3-2 mutant lines. PSD2 and PSD3 share a high degree of sequence similarity, and the two proteins localize to the endomembrane system, suggesting that they might have redundant functions. However, similar to the psd single mutants, growth and morphology of the two double mutant lines, psd2-1 psd3-1 and psd2-2 psd3-2, were very similar to wild type. To obtain plants carrying T-DNA insertions in all three PS decarboxylase genes, triple mutant lines (psd1 psd2-1 psd3-1 and psd1 psd2-2 psd3-2) were generated by crossing the double mutant lines psd2-1 psd3-1 or psd2-2 psd3-2 with the psd1 single mutant. Growth of the two lines psd1 psd2-1 psd3-1 and psd1 psd2-2 psd3-2 was not different from wild type (data not shown). PS decarboxylase activity was measured in microsomal membranes isolated from leaves. The enzyme activities in wild type, psd2-1, and psd2-2 were very similar, indicating that the PSD2 enzyme is responsible for only a minor fraction of the total PS decarboxylase activity in leaves (Fig. 6A ; data not shown). This is in agreement with the low expression level of PSD2 (Fig. 4; data not shown). Microsomal PSD activities in psd3-1, psd3-2, and the psd2-1 psd3-1 double mutant were decreased to about one-third of wild-type activity (Fig. 6A; data not shown). Therefore, PSD3 represents the major PS decarboxylase activity in Arabidopsis leaves. PSD activity in microsomal fractions of the psd1 psd2-1 psd3-1 triple mutant was below detection limit. The residual amount of PSD activity found in the psd2-1 psd3-1 double mutant is derived from PSD1, suggesting that the microsomal fraction contained some mitochondrial membranes. The complete absence of PSD activity from the psd1 psd2-1 psd3-1 triple mutant is in agreement with the assumption that this mutant plant carries three null mutations in the PSD genes and that Arabidopsis contains no other membrane-associated protein capable of decarboxylating PS. Mitochondria were isolated from dark-grown seedlings and employed for PSD activity assays (Fig. 6B). PSD activity in mitochondria of the psd1 mutant was decreased to less than 10% of wild-type activity. The very low activity in psd1 mitochondria presumably is derived from PSD2 and PSD3 activities still associated with the mitochondrial preparation. [[FIGURE]] PS decarboxylase activity was shown to be required for the synthesis of a large proportion of PE in yeast and animals. Therefore, a block in PSD gene expression in Arabidopsis mutants was expected to affect the PE content, particularly in mitochondria, possibly accompanied with an increase of the substrate, PS. Total lipids were isolated from leaves of wild type and the single, double, and triple mutant lines (psd1, psd2-1, psd3-1, psd2-1 psd3-1, and psd1 psd2-1 psd3-1) and after separation via two-dimensional thin-layer chromatography (TLC), quantified by gas chromatography (GC) of fatty acid methyl esters. Lipid contents were unchanged in all lines analyzed (Fig. 7A ). Therefore, partial or total deficiency in PSD activity in Arabidopsis mutants has no measurable effect on PE synthesis in leaves. The contents of phospholipids in leaves are considerably low because leaves are rich in galactolipids. Therefore, lipid analysis of nongreen plant organs (e.g. flowers) that contain higher proportions of phospholipids might reveal small differences in phospholipid composition that would not be detectable in leaves. Membrane lipid composition of flowers of the psd1 psd2-1 psd3-1 triple mutant was also not changed as compared to wild type (Fig. 7B). Fatty acid composition of PE and PS in plants is characterized by a high proportion of linoleic acid (18:2) and α-linolenic acid (18:3). However, PS isolated from the ER or the plasma membrane of plants was shown to be enriched in very long chain fatty acids, i.e. docosanoic acid (22:0) and tetracosanoic acid (24:0; CITATION; CITATION). Fatty acid composition of PE and PS isolated from whole leaves or flowers in wild type and psd1 psd2-1 psd3-1 was very similar (Table I ), suggesting that total deficiency in PS decarboxylase activity did not affect incorporation of lipid precursors from different pools into PE or PS. [[FIGURE]] Fatty acid composition of PE and PS in the psd1 psd2 psd3 triple mutant Lipids were isolated from leaves or flowers, separated by two-dimensional TLC from wild type or psd1 psd2-1 psd3-1, and quantified by GC of fatty acid methyl esters. Data are given in mol% and represent mean ± sd of three measurements. Very long chain fatty acids (22:0 and 24:0) were only detected in PS but were absent from PE and all other membrane lipids analyzed. In yeast, mitochondria represent an essential site for PE synthesis via the PS decarboxylase pathway. To elucidate the role of PS decarboxylase in plants for mitochondrial PE synthesis, mitochondria were isolated from dark-grown seedlings of the Arabidopsis psd1 and psd1 psd2-1 psd3-1 triple mutant and employed for lipid analysis. The amount of PE was slightly decreased in psd1 (data not shown), and it was even further reduced in psd1 psd2-1 psd3-1 (Fig. 7C). Concomitantly, the amount of PS was increased in mitochondria of psd1 psd2-1 psd3-1.
!~MM~! The PSD1 (At4g16700) full-length open reading frame was amplified from first-strand cDNA derived from Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) leaf mRNA (Superscript cDNA synthesis kit; Invitrogen) by PCR using the primers PD288 and PD246 (Table II ). The PCR product was ligated into the SphI, HindIII sites of pQE30 (Qiagen), resulting in the vector pQE30-PSD1. The coding region of PSD2 (At5g57190) was amplified from single-strand cDNA by PCR with the primers PD97 and PD98, thereby introducing SphI and KpnI sites at the 5′ end and 3′ end, respectively. The PSD2 PCR fragment was subcloned into pGEMTeasy (Promega), resulting in the construct pGEMTeasy-PSD2 and sequenced on both strands. The EST (GenBank accession no. AV527283) of PSD3 (At4g25970) was obtained from the Kazusa DNA Research Institute. Sequencing revealed that this clone contained the authentic PSD3 cDNA in the EcoRI and XhoI sites of pBluescriptIISK−. The full-length coding sequences for At-PSD2 (At5g57190) and At-PSD3 (At4g25970) were deposited in GenBank with the accession numbers EF203902 and EF203901, respectively. Oligonucleotides used for PCR amplification Sequences of primers are presented in 5′ to 3′ orientation. PS decarboxylase activity was measured by incubating protein extracts with radioactive PS (sn-1,2-dioleoyl-3-phosphoryl-l-[3-14C]Ser, Amersham). Each reaction (total volume of 200 μL) contained 1 mg protein in 50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.0, 0.1% Triton X-100, 0.05 μCi (130 ng) radioactive PS, and 1.3 μg nonradioactive PS. Reactions were incubated at 28°C for 10 min. Lipids were extracted after addition of 100 μL 1 m KCl, 0.2 m H3PO4, and 200 μL chloroform:methanol (2:1) and separated by TLC on silica plates according to CITATION in chloroform:methanol:water (65:25:4). The conversion of PS to PE was analyzed by autoradiography using the Phosphoimager system (BAS1500; Fuji). Lipids were extracted from leaves and flowers with chloroform-methanol and separated via two-dimensional TLC with chloroform:methanol:water (65:25:4) and chloroform:acetone:methanol:acetic acid:water (50:20:10:10:5) according to CITATION. Lipids isolated from mitochondria were separated by one-dimensional TLC as described in CITATION. Lipids isolated from TLC were methylated with HCl/methanol and methyl esters quantified by GC using pentadecanoic acid (15:0) as internal standard (CITATION). The yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) strains were RYY51 (ura3 his3 trp1 leu2 lys2 psd1-1∷TRP1 psd2-1∷HIS3) and the corresponding wild type, SEY6210 (ura3 his3 trp1 leu2 lys2; CITATION). The vector for plant PSD constructs was pVT103-U, which contains the URA-3 gene for selection and the ADH1 promoter to drive gene expression (CITATION). The full open reading frames for Arabidopsis PSD2 and PSD3 were amplified from the respective cDNAs by PCR using Pfu DNA polymerase and subcloned into pVT103-U for expression in yeast. The full-length PSD3 cDNA was released from pBluescriptIISK− (see above) with XbaI and KpnI and ligated into pKK-MCS. This vector is a derivative of pKK233-2 (GenBank accession no. U02439; CITATION) into which a new polylinker containing NcoI, XbaI, BglII, PstI, KpnI, MfeI, and HindIII restriction sites (generated by annealing of the oligonulceotides MCS-1 and MCS-2; Table II) was inserted into the NcoI and HindIII sites. The C-terminal part of PSD3 was amplified by PCR with the primers QP1ECF and QP1R and ligated into the SacI and PstI sites of pQE100 (Qiagen). Subsequently, the cDNA was released with BamHI and BglII and ligated into the BglII site of pKK-MCS. Constructs were transformed into the E. coli strain EH150 carrying a temperature-sensitive mutation of the psd gene (CITATION). Protein expression in E. coli was induced with 0.5 mm isopropylthio-β-galactoside and cells harvested by centrifugation (6,000g, 5 min). After resuspending in 100 mm KH2PO4, pH 7.0, cells were lysed by ultrasound. Total protein extracts (35 μg protein) were used per assay. In contrast to assays done with plant protein (see above), PSD activity of transformed E. coli EH150 cells was measured at 42°C. Arabidopsis leaves were homogenized in 50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.0, at 4°C by grinding in a mortar with sand. Cell debris was separated by centrifugation (1,200g, 1 min). After centrifugation of the supernatant at 100,000g for 1 h, a microsomal membrane fraction was obtained by resuspending the pellet in 50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.0. A simplified method of CITATION was used for isolation of mitochondria. Briefly, Arabidopsis seeds were germinated and the plants grown in 300 mL of 2× CITATION medium, 3% (w/v) Suc, 20 mm isobutyric acid for 3 weeks in darkness. Plant material was harvested and homogenized with an ultra-turrax in extraction buffer (450 mm Suc, 1.5 mm EGTA, 15 mm MOPS-KOH, pH 7.4, 10 mm dithiothreitol, and 6 g/L polyvinylpyrrolidone). After filtration through Miracloth (Calbiochem), cell debris was removed by centrifugation (2,000g, 5 min). A crude mitochondrial pellet was obtained by centrifugation (16,000g, 10 min), resuspended in washing buffer (300 mm Suc, 1 mm EGTA, 10 mm MOPS-KOH, pH 5.2), and loaded onto a Percoll step gradient (18%, 23%, and 40%). After centrifugation at 12,000g for 45 min, mitochondria were harvested at the 40%/23% Percoll interphase. Mitochondria were washed in resuspension buffer (400 mm mannitol, 1 mm EGTA, 10 mm Tricine-KOH, pH 7.2) and centrifuged again (14,000g, 10 min). Protein concentration in fractions used for enzyme assays was determined according to CITATION. Arabidopsis plants were grown on soil at 120 μmol m−2 s−1, 16 h light/day, 60% humidity, and 20°C. A mutant carrying a T-DNA insertion in the PSD1 gene (Salk_064716) was obtained from the SALK collection (Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH; CITATION; ecotype Columbia [Col-0]). PCR analysis with PSD1 gene-specific primers (PD189 and PD176) and an insert-specific primer (LBb1) was used to isolate homozygous mutant plants. The α mutant population of the University of Wisconsin (ecotype Wassilewskija; Madison, WI; CITATION) was screened for plants carrying T-DNA insertions in the genes PSD2 and PSD3. Screening was done by PCR of pooled genomic DNA using the primers PD90 and PD91 for PSD2 and the primers PD88 and PD89 for PSD3, each in combination with the T-DNA-specific primer JL202 (Table II). The mutants were identified as plant PD90#11 in pool CSJ4362 and plant PD89#20 in pool CSJ2259 for psd2 and psd3, respectively. Additional mutant alleles carrying T-DNA insertions in the genes PSD2 and PSD3 were obtained from Syngenta (SAIL 93b_G04.b.1a and SAIL 851_E09.b.1a, respectively, ecotype Col-0; CITATION). Identification of homozygous mutant plants was done by PCR analysis with gene-specific primers and an insertion-specific primer (Lb3Fa). The position of the insertion in the genomic region was confirmed by sequencing of the PCR fragments. Homozygous mutant lines were obtained by segregation and PCR analysis. PCR amplification of homozygous plants using the gene-specific and insert-specific primers resulted in the synthesis of the fragment containing the genomic DNA/T-DNA junction, but due to the large size of the insertion, no band was obtained when using the two gene-specific primers. Furthermore, Southern-blot hybridization using genomic probes confirmed that mutant plants carried homozygous insertions. Northern blotting was done with total RNA isolated from different Arabidopsis organs (CITATION). The blots were hybridized with different PSD cDNA probes (see above). RNA for semiquantitative real-time PCR was isolated using the Plant RNA Purification Reagent kit (Invitrogen/Gibco BRL). Residual DNA was removed with RNAse-free DNAse (Roche Diagnostics GmbH), and mRNA isolated with the Oligotex mRNA Mini kit (Qiagen). Isolated mRNA was used as template for the synthesis of cDNAs with the Superscript III First-Strand Synthesis system for RT-PCR kit (Invitrogen/Gibco BRL). Semiquantitative real-time PCR was done as described for PCR (see above) using the primer pairs PD344/PD345 and PD348/PD349 for PSD2 and ubiquitin, respectively. The expected PDS2 amplicon was approximately 120 bp of size. The PSD1 cDNA was amplified from clone pQE30-PSD1 with the primers PD243 and PD244 (Table II) and ligated into the EcoRI and BamHI sites of pEZR-K-LN (Gert-Jan de Boer, Carnegie Institution, Stanford, California) as an N-terminal, translational fusion with GFP. The PCR fragment of PSD2 obtained by PCR amplification of pGEMTeasy-PSD2 with the primers ZP2F and ZP2R was digested with EcoRI and BclI and ligated into the EcoRI and BamHI sites of pEZR-K-LN, resulting in the plasmid pEZR-PSD2. The PSD3 cDNA was amplified by PCR using the primers ZP1F and ZP1R from clone AV527283, introducing new KpnI and BclI restriction sites. This fragment was ligated into the KpnI, BamHI sites of pEZR-K-LN, resulting in the plasmid pEZR-PSD3. Plasmid DNA was coated onto 1.0-μm gold micro-carriers (Bio-Rad). Transfer into Arabidopsis leaves was achieved by bombardment in a Biolistic PSD-1000/He particle delivery system (Bio-Rad) using 1,100 psi rupture discs according to the manufacturer's protocol. Leaves were incubated on CITATION medium in the dark for 2 d and fluorescence signals analyzed under a Leica DM-IRBE confocal microscope with excitation at 495 nm and emission at 519 nm. Fusion constructs with GFP or DsRed as controls were obtained for localization to the ER (KDEL-GFP; CITATION) and to the mitochondria (pre-101-GFP) and tonoplast (pTPK1-DsRed2; Katrin Czempinski and Bernd Müller-Röber, University of Potsdam, Germany). Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers EF203901 and EF203902.
