!~ABS~! Heterotrimeric GTP-binding proteins (G-proteins), consisting of Gα, Gβ, and Gγ subunits, function as molecular switches in many eukaryotic signal transduction pathways. In contrast to many eukaryotes, plants contain very few G-protein subunit isoforms that mediate a diverse array of signalling functions. We investigated the contribution of cell type-specific expression and subcellular localization to this multifunctional signalling capacity for the Arabidopsis thaliana Gβ subunit, AGB1. Analysis of AGB1 promoter::β-glucuronidase (GUS) fusions in germinating seeds, seedlings, and flowering plants revealed that AGB1 is widely expressed throughout development in a complex manner. As well as demonstrating similarities to existing Arabidopsis G-protein subunit expression data, several features of the AGB1 expression pattern align closely with known or proposed G-protein functions. A C-terminal AGB1-green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion was localized at the plasma membrane and in the nucleus of leaf epidermal cells, trichomes and root cells, supporting previous evidence that plant G-protein functionality relies on subcellular compartmentalization.
!~RES~! Previous northern blot analysis of AGB1 expression showed the presence of transcripts in whole roots, leaves and flowers (Weiss et al. CITATION). To provide a reference point for detailed expression analysis, we performed an expanded northern blot analysis of whole seedlings and nine different mature plant tissue types (Fig. 1). AGB1 transcripts were present in 14-day-old seedlings and all mature plant tissues at varying levels. Developing and mature rosette leaves, roots and stems contained the highest transcript levels, while siliques showed the lowest level. [[FIGURE]]  To investigate the AGB1 expression pattern in more detail, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing an AGB1 promoter::GUS transcriptional fusion, AGB1p::GUS. The arbitrarily selected 2.5 kb AGB1 promoter region also contains the entire 459 bp coding region of the ASK12 gene, starting 755 bp upstream of the AGB1 translation initiation site. ASK12 is a member of the Arabidopsis SKP1-like gene family that is thought to be involved in ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis (Zhao et al. CITATION). Histochemical GUS staining of 11-day-old T2 seedlings revealed an identical expression pattern at varying intensity levels in 12 independent AGB1p::GUS lines, which was typified by strong expression in the stem and petioles (results not shown). Three lines with single copy T-DNA insertions were selected for further characterization and confirmed by Southern blot hybridization as independent transformants (data not shown). In germinating seeds at 36 h after imbibition, the strongest GUS expression was observed in the hypocotyl and apical meristem region (Fig. 2b–d). During early development, GUS expression progressively appeared in cotyledons and root tips (Fig. 2b–d). A similar overall pattern was observed for 5-day-old seedlings (Fig. 2f–h). Staining was most intense in the petioles and stems, including the apical meristem region (Fig. 2i–j), but was faint or undetectable in the cotyledons and leaf primordia. AGB1p::GUS expression was observed in the root stele (Fig. 2k), although not in the lower root region close to the root tip, including the zones of cell division, elongation and differentiation (Fig. 2l). No staining was observed in the root hairs (Fig. 2j, k). Close inspection of GUS expression in the root tip showed that it was confined to the root cap (Fig. 2m). For both germinating seeds and 5-day-old seedlings, AGB1 expression was considerably weaker compared to the 35S promoter::GUS controls (Fig. 2a, e). [[FIGURE]]  In 11-day-old seedlings AGB1p::GUS expression was strongest in petioles and hypocotyls, including the apical meristem region (Fig. 3b–d). Staining in the petioles continued along the mid veins of leaf primordia and leaves, fading towards the leaf tip (Fig. 3i, j). Although the leaf blades appeared to be unstained, detailed examination revealed low-level GUS expression in the guard cells (Fig. 3n, o). Comparatively stronger GUS expression was seen in guard cells, mesophyll cells and vascular tissues of cotyledons (Fig. 3q, r). Cell-specific GUS expression was also found in trichomes of leaf primordia and mature leaves (Fig. 3i, p). GUS staining was present throughout most of the root system, including root hairs (Fig. 3f–h), with the strongest staining observed in the stele (Fig. 3k–m). Examination of root tips showed that the GUS expression in the stele originates around the zone of differentiation (Fig. 3l). Strong GUS expression was present in the root cap as observed for 5-day-old seedlings, but was also found in the adjacent root meristem and zone of cell division, fading in the zone of elongation (Fig. 3l, m). This pattern was also seen in lateral roots (Fig. 3m). As observed for germinating seeds and 5-day-old seedlings, AGB1 expression in 11-day-old Arabidopsis seedlings was considerably weaker than GUS lines driven by the 35S promoter (Fig. 3a, e). [[FIGURE]]  Mature AGB1p::GUS plants showed GUS expression in floral tissues, with the highest levels observed in sepals and stamen filaments, lower levels found in the gynoecium and anthers, and very faint expression in petals (Fig. 4b, d). GUS expression was also observed in the floral buds of secondary branches, being more intense in bud primordia (Fig. 4e). In siliques, GUS expression was present in the wall and stalk, but absent from seeds (Fig. 4g). Similar to our observations in earlier developmental stages, mature AGB1p::GUS plants showed intense GUS staining in stems and rosette petioles, extending into the mid veins and vascular tissue of the blades (Fig. 4k, o). GUS expression in cauline leaves followed the same pattern, but was comparatively weaker (Fig. 4i). Cell-specific GUS expression was present in trichomes of rosette leaves (Fig. 4l, m) and cauline leaves (data not shown). GUS staining was present in all stem tissue types, with greater intensity observed in the cortex and vascular tissues (Fig. 4o, q). As for 11-day-old seedlings, GUS expression was present in most of the root system and was strongest in the stele. However, staining was almost absent in lateral roots and less obvious in root caps (Fig. 4s, t). Strong GUS expression was observed in the 35S promoter control line for all tissues examined (Fig. 4a, c, f, h, j, n, p, r). [[FIGURE]]  We investigated the subcellular localization of AGB1 using GFP tagging. To minimise the possibility of interference with Gβγ dimer formation and membrane anchorage, a C-terminal AGB1-GFP fusion was chosen. This arrangement is not expected to interfere with membrane association, and indeed a similar GFP fusion expressed in transgenic tobacco was shown to associate with microsomes in the same way as AGB1 in wild type Arabidopsis (Obrdlik et al. CITATION). The AGB1-GFP fusion was created by adding the coding region of mGFP5 (Haseloff and Siemering CITATION) immediately behind the full coding region of AGB1. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing the AGB1-GFP fusion protein under the control of the 35S promoter were examined by confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM). Eleven-day-old T2 seedlings from five independently transformed lines showed identical subcellular localization patterns, characterized by GFP fluorescence at the periphery of the cytoplasm in leaf epidermal cells, suggesting that AGB1-GFP was present at the plasma membrane (Fig. 5a–c). The fluorescent layer was not homogenous, but instead formed discrete node-like structures (Fig. 5g). Although weaker than the non-targeted and ER-targeted GFP controls (Fig. 5d, e), the GFP fluorescence in AGB1-GFP transgenic lines was clearly distinguishable from autofluorescence in wild type leaf epidermal cells (Fig. 5f). No Agrobacterium growth was observed when the AGB1-GFP lines were grown on nutrient media, and the Agrobacterium strain containing the AGB1-GFP construct used for Arabidopsis transformation did not show significant fluorescence when examined by CLSM with identical settings (data not shown). Hence, the fluorescence pattern observed of the AGB1-GFP fusion could not have resulted from persistent Agrobacterium growth. [[FIGURE]]  In the absence of a targeting signal, mGFP5 localises to the cytoplasm and also diffuses into the nucleus (Haseloff et al. CITATION). The AGB1-GFP fluorescent pattern is clearly distinguishable from the pattern observed in non-targeted mGFP5 plants, being thinner and different in shape (Fig. 5c, d). The AGB1-GFP fusion fluorescent signal is also distinct from endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-targeted mGFP5 (Haseloff et al. CITATION; Haseloff CITATION), which lines the periphery of the cytoplasm but also forms a reticulate pattern within it and surrounds the nucleus (Fig. 5e; Haseloff et al. CITATION). In some cells, the AGB1-GFP fluorescent signal also forms filamentous structures (Fig. 5c, h) that may represent the cytoskeleton or cell cortex. However, ER-targeted mGFP5 has a similar appearance (Fig. 5e), suggesting that the filamentous structures simply represent GFP fluorescence associated with the inner boundary of the cytoplasm that is closely aligned with the plane of the optical section. In addition to the plasma membrane, the AGB1-GFP fusion protein is associated with fluorescently labelled structures (Fig. 5c, g) that can be identified as nuclei by their number, size, appearance, and position within the cells when compared with non-targeted and ER-targeted GFP lines (Fig. 5d, e). Non-targeted mGFP5 diffuses into nuclei because it is smaller (26.8 kDa) than the nuclear pore exclusion limit of approximately 40–60 kDa (Kohler CITATION). Thus the presence of the 67.9 kDa AGB1-GFP fusion protein in the nucleus indicates active targeting. An identical pattern of plasma membrane and nuclear localization was also observed in leaf trichomes and roots (Fig. 5h, i). In the large trichome cells, non-fluorescent nucleoli were clearly identified, demonstrating that AGB1-GFP is located within the nucleus and not associated with the nuclear membrane. In both trichomes and root cells, the plasma membrane-localized fluorescent signal contained node-like structures similar to those seen in leaf epidermal cells.
!~MM~!  Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia tissues were harvested from plants grown in a mixture of 60% UC potting mix type C (Matkin and Chandler CITATION) and 40% vermiculite (v/v). After sowing in pots, seeds were vernalized by incubation at 4°C for 3–5 days, then transferred to a growth room at 21 ± 3°C under a 16-h photoperiod with a light intensity of 50 μE m−2 s−1 provided by white fluorescent tubes. Apart from whole 14-day-old seedlings, all other samples were taken from flowering plants approximately 6 weeks old. Developing and mature rosette and cauline leaves (excluding petioles) were sampled at the same time and distinguished by leaf blade length: developing rosette leaves, 1 cm; mature rosette leaves, 3 cm; developing cauline leaves, 0.5 cm; mature cauline leaves, 1 cm. Extraction of total RNA, northern blotting, and hybridisation were performed as described by Etheridge et al. (CITATION) using 32P-labelled probes, and hybridised blots were visualized using a PhosphorImager SI™ and quantified with ImageQuaNT™ software (Molecular Dynamics, Inc.). A SalI/NotI fragment of an AGB1 EST clone (ID #162P20T7, obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Centre, http://www.biosci.ohio-state.edu/∼plantbio/Facilities/abrc/) was used for the hybridization probe. The blot was re-probed with a wheat ribosomal RNA gene (Gerlach and Bedbrook CITATION) for total RNA loading normalization. For the AGB1p::GUS construct, the AGB1 promoter region was amplified by PCR from Arabidopsis genomic DNA using the AGB5 primer (5′-AA CTC GAG TTA CAA GCG AGC TTG-3′), located approximately 2.3 kb upstream from the transcription initiation site, and the AGB4 primer (5′-TTG GAT C CA T TC C GG GAT CAG ACT TAG GCT TC-3′), located at the 3′ end of the AGB1 5′UTR (annealing regions are underlined, the AGB1 start codon shown in bold, and XhoI and BamHI sites, respectively, are indicated by italics). The primers AGB5 correspond to bases 17,796–17,779, and AGB4 to bases 15,273–15,297 of the Arabidopsis chromosome 4 BAC clone T4L20 (Genbank entry AL023094). The resulting PCR product was cloned into pGEM-T Easy® vector (Promega Corp.) and confirmed by sequencing. The AGB1 promoter/5′UTR fragment was excised with XhoI/BamHI, and ligated into pAOV-intron-GUS (containing the intron-gusA reporter gene (Ohta et al. CITATION) inserted into the CaMV35S promoter/nos terminator cassette of pAOV (Mylne and Botella CITATION); kindly provided by Dr. J. S. Mylne) from which the CaMV35S promoter had been removed by digestion with XhoI/BamHI. The resulting AGB1 promoter-intronGUS fusion binary construct was named AGB1p::GUS. For the AGB1-GFP construct, an AGB1 cDNA was amplified by reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR) from RQ1 DNaseI (Promega Corp.) treated total RNA extracted from Arabidopsis flowers using the primers AGB2 (5′ ATC TCG AG A ATC ACT CTC CTG TGT CCT CC 3′, annealing region underlined, XhoI site italicised) and AGB3 (5′ CGT GTT TGT GTC TTG ACT GAT TC 3′ annealing region underlined). These primers correspond to 1,338–1,318 and 13–35 of the AGB1 cDNA sequence (Genbank entry U12232), respectively. The pBluescript SKII-® vector (Stratagene Corp.) was modified by removing the XhoI site by digestion, filling of the ends and re-ligation. This plasmid was then digested with SmaI and used to blunt-clone the 1.32 kb AGB1 RT-PCR product. To create the AGB1-GFP fusion, a clone containing the AGB1 cDNA in T7→T3 orientation was digested with XhoI, and then ligated to an XhoI fragment containing the mGFP5 gene excised from pBS-GFP. The plasmid pBS-GFP (kindly provided by Dr. T. V. Humphrey) comprises mgfp5-ER (Siemering et al. CITATION) amplified without the ER signal peptide or ER retention signal using the primers GFP 1 (5′-GC CTC GAG AGT AAA GGA GAA GAA CTT-3′) and GFP 2 (5′-CG GAG CTC TCA TTT GTA TAG TTC ATC-3′) and ligated into EcoRV-cut pBluescript SKII-®. The binary transformation vector AGB1-GFP was created by excising the AGB1-mGFP5 fusion with BamHI/PstI and sub-cloning into pSOV2 (Mylne and Botella CITATION). Binary vectors were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA4404 (Hoekema et al. CITATION) by triparental mating as described by Svab et al. (CITATION) using the E. coli helper strain pRK2013 (Ditta et al. CITATION). Wild type Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia was transformed according to the vacuum infiltration method of Bechtold et al. (CITATION) and T1 transformants selected by spraying with 0.4% v/v Basta® (Hoechst AG), initially at the emergence of cotyledons, then twice again at 3-day intervals. The 35S promoter control line (transformed with the pAOV-intronGUS vector previously described) was kindly provided by Dr. J. S. Mylne. For comparative purposes, GUS histochemical characterization of the AGB1p::GUS lines was modelled on a study of the Arabidopsis Gα subunit GPA1 promoter (Huang et al. CITATION). Four developmental stages were examined: germinating seeds (36 h after imbibition), 5-day-old seedlings (cotyledons open), 11-day-old seedlings (first leaves expanded, second leaves developing), and flowering mature plants. Samples were immersed in a staining solution (2 mM X-gluc, 0.5% Triton X-100, 0.1% Tween 20, 0.5 mM K3Fe(CN)6, 0.5 mM K4Fe(CN)6·3H2O, 10 mM Na2EDTA and 50 mM sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.0), vacuum infiltrated three times for 5 min, then incubated at 37°C for 24 h. Stem cross-sections were hand sectioned prior to staining. After staining, samples were cleared by several changes of 70% ethanol. Photographs were taken using a Camedia C-3040 Zoom digital camera attached to BH2 compound or SZ11 stereo microscopes (Olympus Corp.). No GUS staining was observed in any of the wild type negative controls that were performed for each sample. Transgenic T2 Arabidopsis seeds were surface sterilised by incubation in a 1:1 mixture of ethanol: hydrogen peroxide (3%) for 5 minutes, washed three times in sterile distilled water, and resuspended in sterile 0.15% agar. Seeds were plated on germination medium containing 1× MS Salts, 1× MS vitamins, 1% sucrose, 1% agar, pH 5.7 (Murashige and Skoog CITATION) and grown in conditions as described previously. After approximately 11 days, seedlings were examined by mounting in water under glass cover slips. GFP fluorescence was observed using a Bio-Rad MRC-600 confocal laser scanning microscope equipped with a 3-line krypton-argon laser, a Bio-Rad K1/K2 filter set and a Zeiss 63× Planapo 1.4 numerical aperture oil-immersion objective. Composition of dual channel images and image processing were carried out using Confocal Assistant version 4.02 (BioRad Corp.) and Image J 1.33u (Rasband CITATION) software.
