!~ABS~! Hexokinase, a hexose-phosphorylating enzyme, has emerged as a central enzyme in sugar-sensing processes. A few HXK isozymes have been identified in various plant species. These isozymes have been classified into two major groups; plastidic (type A) isozymes located in the plastid stroma and those containing a membrane anchor domain (type B) located mainly adjacent to the mitochondria, but also found in the nucleus. Of all the hexokinases that have been characterized to date, the only exception to this rule is a spinach type B HXK (SoHXK1) that, by means of subcellular fractionation, has been localized to the outer membrane of plastids. However, SoHXK1 has a membrane anchor domain that is almost identical to that of the other type B HXKs. To determine the localization of SoHXK1 enzyme by other means, we expressed SoHXK1::GFP fusion protein in tobacco and Arabidopsis protoplasts and compared its localization with that of the Arabidopsis AtHXK1::GFP fusion protein that shares a similar N-terminal membrane anchor domain. SoHXK1::GFP is localized adjacent to the mitochondria, similar to AtHXK1::GFP and all other previously examined type B HXKs. Proteomic analysis had previously identified AtHXK1 on the outside of the mitochondrial membrane. We, therefore, suggest that SoHXK1 enzyme is located adjacent to the mitochondria like the other type B HXKs that share the same N-terminal membrane anchor domain.
!~RES~! The N-terminal membrane anchor domain of SoHXK1 is very similar to those of the mitochondria-associated HXKs, AtHXK1&2, LeHXK1,2&3 and NbHXK1 (Fig. 1). Nevertheless, biochemical studies suggested that SoHXK1 is located on the outer membrane of chloroplasts. To determine the intracellular localization of SoHXK1 by other means, we expressed a fusion protein of SoHXK1::GFP in tobacco protoplasts and compared its localization to that of AtHXK1::GFP. As shown in Fig. 2, both SoHXK1::GFP and AtHXK1::GFP are associated with the mitochondria, similar to LeHXK1,2&3::GFP and NbHXK1::GFP (Damari-Weissler et al. CITATION; Kandel-Kfir et al. CITATION; Kim et al. CITATION). A SoHXK1::GFP fusion protein from a construct containing 274 bp of the 5′ untranslated region (5′UTR) of SoHXK1 was also associated with the mitochondria following expression in Arabidopsis protoplasts (Fig. 1), indicating that there is no alternative start codon that could be responsible for dual- or plastid-targeting of SoHXK1. In addition, a fusion protein containing the first 45 amino acids of SoHXK1 fused to a truncated protein of AtHXK1 was also associated with the mitochondria (not shown). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  These observations contradict the results obtained through subcellular fractionation and plastid isolation, which suggested that SoHXK1 is attached to the outer membrane of the chloroplast envelope (Wiese et al. CITATION). In an earlier fractionation study (Singh et al. CITATION), an association between HXK and the outer chloroplast envelope was also suggested, but the authors cautioned that their results did not preclude the possibility that this hexokinase had become attached to the chloroplasts during plastid isolation. We suspect that these contrasting results could be the result of the plastid fraction having been contaminated with other cellular membranes that are associated with the mitochondria. Although the AtHXK1 and SoHXK1 GFP fusion studies were performed using chimeric proteins, we believe that the results of these studies are reliable, as they do not contradict the mitochondrial associations of AtHXK1 and AtHXK2, which have been observed through proteomic analysis (Giege et al. CITATION; Heazlewood et al. CITATION). Intensive proteomic analysis of Arabidopsis chloroplast envelope membranes did not reveal any hexokinase-chloroplast envelope associations (Ferro et al. CITATION), further supporting our results. The localization of the Arabidopsis AtHXK4 (AT3G20040), which appears in the database as a chloroplast outer envelope hexokinase, has no experimental support, while its N-terminal sequence is very similar to that of AtHXK1&2, LeHXK1,2&3 and NbHXK1, implying mitochondrial association (Fig. 1). Hence, none of the HXK isozymes deduced from the numerous HXK genes cloned so far seem to be located on the outer plastidic envelope. Mounting evidence suggests that HXKs may be located in the stroma within plastids or associated with the mitochondria. The only exception to this is a single monocot OsHXK7 that lacks the N-terminal membrane anchor domain and was localized in the cytosol (Cho et al. CITATION). A small fraction of the mitochondria-associated HXK isozymes are probably transported to the nucleus, where they regulate the expression of various genes involved in the sugar signaling pathway (Cho et al. CITATION). It has been suggested that the primary function of HXK1, located on the outer membrane of the chloroplast, might be to directly phosphorylate glucose leaving the chloroplasts (as a product of hydrolytic starch breakdown), in order to maintain a steep gradient of glucose across the plastid membrane (Wiese et al. CITATION). However, maltose is probably the main starch degradation product exported from the chloroplasts (Smith et al. CITATION; Zeeman et al. CITATION) and, therefore, HXK might not be required to maintain a steep glucose gradient. In addition to HXK, which can phosphorylate both glucose and fructose, plants also possess a few fructokinase (FRK) isozymes that can phosphorylate only fructose. While the affinities of HXKs to glucose are about two orders of magnitude higher than their affinities to fructose (Menu et al. CITATION; Dai et al. CITATION; Kandel-Kfir et al. CITATION), the affinities of FRKs to fructose are higher than those of HXKs (Renz and Stitt CITATION; Kanayama et al. CITATION, CITATION; German et al. CITATION). It is therefore likely that while FRKs phosphorylate only fructose, HXKs phosphorylate mainly glucose (Damari-Weissler et al. CITATION; Granot CITATION). Unlike HXKs, the cytoplasmic FRKs lack membrane anchor domains and are located in the cytosol (Damari-Weissler et al. CITATION). This spatial separation of HXKs and FRKs in the cytoplasm raises interesting points concerning micro-compartmentalization of the hexoses glucose and fructose. Glucose can be obtained through cleavage of sucrose by apoplastic invertase or intracellular soluble invertase, or following amylolytic degradation of starch in plastids. Fructose may also be produced through the cleavage of sucrose by invertase or by intracellular cytosolic sucrose synthase, but cannot be obtained through starch degradation in plastids. Hence, except as products of invertase activity, intracellular glucose and fructose might have different origins and potentially different micro-compartmentalization patterns. The recent discoveries of invertases located within the mitochondria and plastids of rice (Subbaiah et al. 2006) and sucrose synthase in the mitochondria of maize (Murayama and Handa 2007) further support micro-compartmentalization of glucose and fructose. How the different hexoses, glucose and fructose are routed to the mitochondria-associated (and nuclear) HXKs, or to the cytoplasmic FRKs, remains a mystery. By harnessing the power of the recently developed genetically encoded intracellular glucose sensors (Deuschle et al. CITATION), we may be able to greatly expand our knowledge in this field.
!~MM~!  AtHXK1 has been previously cloned by us (Dai et al. CITATION), and SoHXK1 was cloned from spinach leaf cDNA. The AtHXK1 and SoHXK1 open reading frames (U28214, AF118132), excluding the stop codons, were amplified with added XhoI and BamHI restriction sites for AtHXK1, added ClaI and BamHI restriction sites for SoHXK1 and added BamHI and XhoI restriction sites for SoHXK1 + 5′UTR. The primers used for the PCR amplification are shown in Table 1. The resulting fragments of AtHXK1 and SoHXK1 were fused in-frame, preceding the N terminal end of GFP in pART7 (Gleave CITATION) containing GFP (Kandel-Kfir et al. CITATION). SoHXK1 + 5′UTR was subcloned into pENTR1-A Entry vector (Invitrogen). The small destination vector pPT18-83a for transient transformation of Arabidopsis protoplasts was created by introducing the Gateway cassette from the pMDC83a vector (Curtis and Grossniklaus CITATION) into the pTZ18-R vector (Pharmacia) via EcoRI and HindIII. SoHXK1 + 5′UTR was inserted into the pTZ18-R83a small destination vector using LR clonase (Invitrogen). To produce the empty GFP control vector, ccDB gene was removed from pPT18-83a by KpnI digestion and self-ligated. The identities of the final products were confirmed through DNA sequencing. [[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] Mesophyll protoplasts were isolated from leaves of Nicotiana tabacum L. ‘Samsun’ NN plants grown under sterile conditions (Draper et al. CITATION). Electroporation of 5 × 105 protoplasts was carried out in pre-chilled electroporation medium (Fromm et al. CITATION). The final DNA concentration was adjusted to 5 μg plasmid DNA and 15 μg calf thymus DNA per 0.5 ml of electroporation solution. Following electroporation, protoplasts were transferred into growth medium (Draper et al. CITATION), incubated in the dark at 27°C for 24 h and then analyzed.  Protoplasts from mesophyll tissue of Arabidopsis (ecotype Columbia) were prepared and transformed by modified protocol as described previously (Bauer et al. CITATION). After transformation, protoplasts were incubated for 12–14 h under constant light. In transiently transformed tobacco protoplasts, microscope observations and image acquisitions were performed using the OLYMPUS IX 81 (Japan) inverted laser scanning confocal microscope (FLUOVIEW 500) equipped with a 488 nm argon ion laser, a 543 nm green helium/neon laser and a 60X1.0 NA PlanApo water immersion objective. GFP was excited by 488 nm light and the emission was collected using a BA 515–525 filter. MitoTracker (CMXROS from Molecular Probes, final concentration 400 nM) was excited by 543 nm light and the emission was collected using a BA 560IF filter. A BA 660 IF emission filter was used to observe chlorophyll autofluorescence. For transiently transformed Arabidopsis protoplasts, confocal imaging was performed using an inverted Zeiss LSM 210 (Carl Zeiss, Germany) laser scanning microscope and an ×63 oil immersion objective (Jena, Germany). GFP fluorescence was excited with the argon laser (488 nm) and detected at 505 nm to 530 nm. MitoTracker CMXROS was excited with the green helium neon laser (543 nm) and detected at 560–615 nm. Far-red autofluorescence of chlorophyll was detected at 643–753 nm. Confocal optical sections were obtained at 0.5 μm increments. The images were color-coded green for GFP, red for MitoTracker and blue (or red, when MitoTracker was not used) for chlorophyll autofluorescence.
