!~ABS~! Auxin affects the shape of root systems by influencing elongation and branching. Because multidrug resistance (MDR)-like ABC transporters participate in auxin transport, they may be expected to contribute to root system development. This reverse genetic study of Arabidopsis thaliana roots shows that MDR4-mediated basipetal auxin transport did not affect root elongation or branching. However, impaired acropetal auxin transport due to mutation of the MDR1 gene caused 21% of nascent lateral roots to arrest their growth and the remainder to elongate 50% more slowly than the wild type. Reporter gene analyses indicated a severe auxin deficit in the apex of mdr1 but not mdr4 lateral roots. The mdr1 deficit was explained by 40% less acropetal auxin transport within the mdr1 lateral roots. The slow elongation of mdr1 lateral roots was rescued by auxin and phenocopied in the wild type by an inhibitor of polar auxin transport. Confocal microscopy analysis of a functional green fluorescent protein–MDR1 translational fusion showed the protein to be auxin inducible and present in the tissues responsible for acropetal transport in the primary root. The protein also accumulated in lateral root primordia and later in the tissues responsible for acropetal transport within the lateral root, fully supporting the conclusion that auxin levels established by MDR1-dependent acropetal transport control lateral root growth rate to influence root system architecture.
!~RES~! The large (80%) contribution of MDR1 to acropetal (but not basipetal) auxin transport (CITATION) implies that this ABC transporter functions in the central tissues of the root and not the epidermis. However, an expression profiling study that separately analyzed several root tissues at different stages of development indicated that MDR1 is expressed at reasonably high levels throughout the root apex (CITATION). Broad expression across the root apex was confirmed in an analysis of plant lines transformed with the green fluorescent protein (GFP) reporter gene under the control of the MDR1 promoter, ProMDR1:GFP (Figure 1A ). The finding that the MDR1 promoter is active in all tissues of the root apex may seem at odds with a major role for MDR1 specifically in acropetal auxin transport. The apparent inconsistency was resolved by confocal microscopy analysis of mdr1 mutant plants engineered to express a GFP-MDR1 translational fusion driven by the native MDR1 promoter (ProMDR1:GFP-MDR1). The GFP signal in the root apex of these transgenic lines clearly emanated from the periphery of cells in the stele and cortex but not from epidermal or lateral root cap cells (Figures 1B to 1G). Thus, the MDR1 protein is in the tissues expected of a factor required for normal acropetal auxin transport in roots, and it is absent from tissues that transport auxin basipetally. The absence of MDR1 in the epidermis and lateral root cap, sites of basipetal transport, appears to be achieved by a posttranscriptional mechanism. This localization pattern was typical of the most apical 1 cm of the primary root. More basal regions of the root displayed less GFP-MDR1 signal in the cortex. In the most mature regions of the root, GFP-MDR1 was restricted to the stele (data not shown). At the subcellular level, the GFP signal was localized to the periphery of the expressing cells, consistent with multiple lines of evidence indicating that MDR1 is a plasma membrane protein. Unlike the polarly localized PIN1, MDR1 appears to be evenly distributed along all sides of the cells in the stele (Figure 1F). In cortical cells, the protein appears to be equally present at the apical and basal ends of cells (Figures 1C to 1E). In the cortical cells close to root meristem, the protein distribution is along all sides of the cells (Figure 1E); however, the protein is often less concentrated along the cortical/epidermal cell boundary (Figure 1C) but not always (Figure 1D). [[FIGURE]] One of the earliest links between MDR proteins and auxin was the finding that MDR1 mRNA was upregulated by IAA (CITATION). Figures 2A and 2B show that this effect of IAA translates into an increase in MDR1 protein. The upregulation by IAA occurs in the cells that normally express the gene and not in cells in which its expression is posttranscriptionally suppressed. The subcellular localization pattern was not changed by IAA treatment, but the generally higher levels accentuated the deficit in the periclinal walls of the cortical-epidermal cell boundary. Early work with MDR1 also showed that it could bind the polar auxin transport inhibitor NPA (CITATION). One possible mode of action for NPA would be for it to affect the membrane localization of MDR1. Treatment of roots for 3 h with 100 μM NPA did not affect the level or localization of GFP-MDR1, indicating there is no short-term effect of the blocker on MDR1 levels or localization. However, treatment for 1 d with 1 μM or especially 5 μM NPA resulted in a loss of MDR1 from the most apical portion of the root (Figures 2C and 2D). Thus, effects of long-term NPA treatment on auxin transport could be due in part to reduced levels of MDR1. Changes in auxin levels do not explain the effect of NPA on MDR1 protein levels because in the same area where MDR1 decreases, NPA causes auxin to accumulate (Figure 5K), and auxin induces higher levels of MDR1. The effect of NPA on MDR1 levels is probably not a general effect on membrane proteins because the anonymous plasma membrane marker 29-1-GFP (CITATION) was not affected by NPA (Figures 2E and 2F). [[FIGURE]] The mdr1 and mdr4 mutants were used to test the connection between each of the two antiparallel auxin transport streams and root branching. Figure 3A shows that branching of the mdr1-1 and mdr1-2 root systems was defective and the defect was completely suppressed by expression of the GFP-MDR1 molecule used for the localization studies in Figures 1 and 2, confirming that the phenotype is due to the loss of MDR1 function. Loss of MDR4 had no detectable effect on lateral root branching at this level of analysis (Figure 3B). Tests on media containing 0, 0.5, 1, or 2% sucrose did not reveal a difference in lateral root production between the wild type and either allele of mdr4 (data not shown). One explanation of the whole-plant-level observations in Figures 3A and 3B is that impaired acropetal but not basipetal auxin transport in the primary root somehow negatively affects root branching. [[FIGURE]] The reduced root branching in mdr1 may have been due to a reduced rate of primordium formation. To investigate this possibility, the observable primordia in 8-d-old seedlings were counted and classified using the methods and nomenclature of CITATION. The results in Table 1 show that mdr1 roots contained as many lateral root primordia as the wild type and that these primordia were distributed across the different developmental stages similarly to the wild type. This result implies that the earliest events in lateral root production, such as cell cycle activation within the pericycle, are not affected by a decrease in acropetal auxin transport, and the visible mdr1 phenotype (Figure 3A) is probably due to reduced postemergence growth of the lateral roots. This interpretation was supported by the finding that 21% of lateral roots in mdr1 did not enter an elongation phase after emergence, compared with only 1% that arrested in the wild type. Furthermore, the elongation rate of those mdr1 lateral roots that grew after emerging was ∼50% slower than the wild type (Figure 3C). Again, the slower growth was completely corrected by the ProMDR1:GFP-MDR1 transgene. The mdr1 mutation had no significant effect on the rate of primary root elongation (Figure 4A ). Loss of MDR4, which reduced basipetal auxin transport by ∼50%, did not affect the growth of lateral roots at any stage of development or elongation of the primary root (Table 1, Figures 3D and 4B). Mutations in MDR1and MDR4 Do Not Affect Lateral Root Initiation [[FIGURE]] Histochemical analysis of the ProDR5:β-glucuronidase (GUS) auxin reporter in wild-type and mdr1 root systems was performed to determine if reduced acropetal auxin transport altered auxin distribution in a way that could explain the impaired lateral root growth. The representative results in Figure 5 show a severe auxin deficit in mdr1 lateral root primordia from early stages through postemergence development. In the primary root apex, the mdr1 mutation resulted only in a small reduction in ProDR5:GUS signal in a region of the stele just basal to the apical maximum (Figures 5A and 5F). Blocking polar auxin transport in wild-type plants by transferring them to media containing NPA produced an auxin deficit in lateral root primordia essentially like that of mdr1 (Figures 5L to 5O). With longer staining times (3 d), 11% of mdr1 lateral root primordia showed some GUS signal, indicating that a very weak auxin gradient persists in mdr1 primordia, but NPA treatment completely eliminated the GUS signal (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). [[FIGURE]] In the primary root apex, NPA caused an increase in the ProDR5:GUS signal (Figure 5K), as has been observed before (CITATION; CITATION). If this NPA-induced increase is due to blocked efflux of auxin synthesized at the root apex, then the opposite response of lateral root apices may be evidence that they produce less auxin than the primary root apex. An mdr4-1 line transformed with ProDR5:GFP was constructed for use in the CITATION studies on gravitropism. It was used here to examine the influence of MDR4 on auxin distribution in developing lateral roots. Consistent with the lack of effect of the mdr4 mutations on lateral root growth and development, auxin distribution appeared normal in these mutants (Figure 6 ). [[FIGURE]] Confocal analysis of the functional GFP-MDR1 molecule showed it distinctly accumulated in pericycle derivatives beginning at an early stage of primordium development, and later, as in the primary root, it was restricted to the central cylinder and cortical cells in which acropetal auxin transport occurs (Figure 7 ). The GFP-MDR1 localization and ProDR5:GUS patterns indicate that MDR1 is required for acropetal auxin transport within the lateral root. The results of a 3H-IAA–based transport assay supported this hypothesis (CITATION). As shown in Figure 8 , acropetal transport within the lateral root was reduced by ∼60% in mdr1 mutants, and, like the effect of the mutations on growth rate, the transport defect was rescued by the GFP-MDR1 molecule. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The following experiments addressed the relationships between MDR1-controlled auxin levels in the lateral root and the control of lateral root elongation. Exogenous IAA (0.05 μM) approximately doubled mdr1 lateral root growth rate, almost completely restoring it to wild-type levels (Figure 9 ). NPA, which phenocopied the ProDR5:GUS pattern in mdr1, reduced the growth rate of wild-type lateral roots to the same level as mdr1. NPA did not further reduce mdr1 lateral root growth rate (Figure 9). These data indicate that an auxin deficit arising from impaired acropetal transport within the lateral root limited the elongation rate of mdr1 lateral roots. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Seeds were surface-sterilized and plated on half-strength MS agar plates (2.15 g/L MS salts [Sigma-Aldrich], and 0.8% bacto-agar, pH 5.8) containing 1% sucrose or 0.5% sucrose in the case of plants used for auxin transport assays. The plates were maintained in darkness at 4°C for 2 to 3 d and then oriented vertically under 80 to 100 μmol m−2 s−1 constant white light at 22°C. The ProDR5:GUS reporter gene was introduced into the mdr1-1 mutant by genetic crossing, and doubly homozygous individuals were isolated from the F3 generation. Roots from 8-d-old seedlings were stained for GUS activity in 1 mL of a solution containing 50 mM phosphate buffer, 0.5% Triton X-100, 500 μM K3Fe(CN)6, and 1 μM X-Glu (Gold BioTechnology) at 37°C. In the case of NPA treatment, 6-d-old plants were transferred to agar plates containing the indicated concentration and maintained in this condition for 2 d before staining commenced. All samples were observed using a ×20 UPlanFl objective on an Olympus BX60 microscope equipped with an Olympus DP70 camera. The measurements of acropetal auxin transport in the lateral roots were made on 12-d-old vertically grown seedlings with >20-mm-long lateral roots. Blocks containing 5 μL of 3 μM 3H-IAA in 1% agar were placed at the base of the lateral root. After 3 h, eight lateral roots were collected by cutting 10 mm from the base of each and placing it into 2.5 mL of scintillation fluid, and the amount of radioactivity within each sample was determined as described above. To quantify primary root growth rate, images were obtained with a flatbed scanner at days 6 and 7 and the difference in length determined. Growth rates of the 4th, 5th, and 6th emerged lateral roots, provided they were at least 5 mm long, were determined from the increases in length between days 8 and 10. In studies of the effects of treatments on the growth rate of lateral roots, 6-d-old seedlings were transferred to agar plates containing the indicated concentration of NPA (Chem Service) or IAA (Sigma-Aldrich) and then their elongation between days 8 and 10 was determined. To generate the chimeric fusion construct GFP-MDR1, the complete MDR1 coding sequence was amplified by PCR from the Arabidopsis thaliana MDR1 cDNA clone (CITATION) using two oligonucleotide primers, 5′-GCGGATCCATGTCGGAAACTAACA-3′ and 5′-GCGGATCCATCGTTATAGTCCATAGAAATC-3′. The underlined regions denote BamHI sites that were introduced to both primers to facilitate the cloning of amplified DNA. After digestion with BamHI, the fragment was fused in frame to the C-terminal end of eGFP in pEGAD vector. To replace the 35S promoter, a 4.3-kb fragment of 5′ untranslated region containing the native promoter of MDR1 was amplified by PCR using primers 5′-GTCCGATCGATTGTTAAGAGATAGACGAGATAGCTG-3′ and 5′-GCGACCGGTGGTTTTTTGTAGATCCGAGTTAAAGAAAG-3′ (PvuI and AgeI sites are underlined, respectively) and digested. The 35S promoter in the resulting construct was removed by PacI and AgeI and replaced by the PCR fragment through ligation. The resulting vector was introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 and used to transform mutant mdr1-1 using the floral dip method (CITATION). To generate an MDR1 promoter-driven GFP construct (ProMDR1:GFP), the MDR1 cDNA was removed using BamHI and the resulting construct was religated. The vector was introduced through the same way into wild-type Ws plants. Plants carrying the transgene were isolated through basta selection. The homozygous lines for the transgene were obtained in the T3 generation. Confocal microscopy was performed on a Zeiss LSM 510 laser scanning confocal microscope equipped with a Meta detector. Propidium iodide was used as a cell wall stain to delineate the root structure. Optics employed were a C-Apochromat ×40 water immersion lens or a plan-Apochromat ×63 oil immersion lens. The sample was excited with the 488-nm laser line from a 30-mW argon gas laser. The fluorescence was captured in 10-nm bandwidths and then linear unmixing was performed to isolate the GFP signal from the stained background. Pixels that were determined to be GFP and propidium iodide were false-colored green and red, respectively. Arabidopsis Genome Initiative locus identifiers for the genes mentioned in this article are At3g28860 (MDR1) and At2g47000 (MDR4). The following material is available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Auxin-Responsive ProDR5:GUS Expression in Lateral Root Primordia of mdr1 and NPA-Treated Wild-Type Seedlings.
