!~ABS~! Phytochromes are light responsive photoreceptors in plants that influence development and differentiation during the entire plant life cycle. Plant nucleoside diphosphate kinase 2 (NDPK2) has been reported to be a component of the light-mediated signalling cascade and to interact physically with phytochrome A in the cytosol. By using diverse methods as in vitro imports, in vivo localisation of GFP-fusion proteins and immuno blotting of plant cell fractions we clearly localise NDPK2 only to chloroplasts but not to the cytosol, demonstrating that although high affinity protein–protein interactions can occur in vitro, their physiological relevance can be artificial if the proteins are localised to different cell compartments in vivo.
!~RES~! Computational transit peptide prediction (Emanuelsson et al. CITATION) reveals the presence of a probable chloroplast targeting sequence at the N terminus of atNDPK2. When we fused GFP to the carboxy end of pNDPK2, which did not mask the transit peptide, the chimera localised exclusively to Arabidopsis chloroplasts (Fig. 1a). Removing the predicted transit peptide resulted in a diffuse distribution in the cytosol (Fig. 1b), as was the case with GFP-pNDPK2 (Choi et al. CITATION). To corroborate the results from the in vivo localisation of the GFP-fusion proteins we conducted in vitro import experiments with radioactively labelled precursor proteins into isolated Arabidopsis chloroplasts (Fig. 2a). The translation product (p) was efficiently translocated into chloroplasts and processed to the mature form of about 17 kDa (Fig. 2a, lane I, m). The processed form was resistant to treatment with the externally added protease thermolysin (Th) which removes proteins at the plastid surface (Cline et al. CITATION). This confirms that the predicted chloroplast transit peptide is functional and directs atNDPK2 efficiently to the organelle. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  There was still the possibility that the atNDPK2 gene is alternatively spliced with one translation product being targeted to chloroplasts, whereas the other might end up in the cytosol. To investigate this, we performed RT- and RACE-PCR on Arabidopsis RNA (Fig. 2b). With both methods we detected only one form of RNA that corresponded to the pNDPK2 full length precursor mRNA, asserting the notion that only a single form of the protein exists which is transported into chloroplasts. To further test that atNDPK2 is not also localised to the cytosol by some unknown mechanism, we immunoblotted leaf extract (LE), cytosolic (Cyt) and stromal (Str) extracts from Arabidopsis with antibodies against NDPK, ferredoxin-oxidoreductase (FNR) and sucrose phosphate synthase (SPS), proteins for the chloroplast stroma and the cytosol, respectively, that served as subcellular markers (Fig. 2c). To check for eventual contamination with mitochondria we analysed chloroplasts, mitochondria and the cytosolic fraction with antibodies against mitochondrial VDAC. No mitochondrial contamination could be detected (Fig. 2c). FNR was detected in the leaf extract and the stromal fraction, as anticipated, and a slight contamination of the cytosolic fraction with stromal proteins is also detectable. The full length form (fl) of the SPS was only detectable in leaf extract, whereas in enriched cytosol only a proteolytic fragment (fr) can be seen. The NDPK antibody recognised two bands in the stroma as described previously for pea (Lubeck et al. CITATION), whereas a lower band corresponding to NDPK1 was exclusively present in the cytosol. The lower stromal band is also recognised in the cytosol, but not the upper one. To verify the identity of the stromal and cytosolic forms we used an ATP-Agarose affinity matrix to enrich atNDPK2 from stroma and leaf extract (Yang et al. CITATION). Purification of atNDPK from Arabidopsis stroma followed by mass spectrometry yielded peptides corresponding to atNDPK2 only (Fig. 3). No peptides of another isoform were found indicating that atNDPK2 is the only isoform located in the chloroplast stroma. Binding of total soluble proteins from whole leaf extracts to ATP-Agarose resulted in four bands containing atNDPK isoforms (Fig. 3b). The upper band, corresponding to the protein recognised by the NDPK-antibody in the stromal fraction, contained only atNDPK2. The second band, much less intense, comprised atNDPK1 and atNDPK3. The most prominent band, immuno-detected in the cytosolic fraction, consisted solely of atNDPK1, as well as the very faint lowest band. To exclude that the faint band in Fig. 3b at 24 kDa represents unprocessed atNDPK2, we immuno-analysed the cytosolic fraction with antibodies against NDPK and included the area around 24 kDa (Fig. 3c). The antibodies failed to recognise any protein in this molecular range. This result clearly supports our conclusion that atNDPK2 is not found in the cytosol but exclusively within chloroplasts. [[FIGURE]]  Since NDPK proteins are involved in nucleotide metabolism we speculated that atNDPK2 in chloroplasts might be associated with plastidic DNA, which is organised in nucleoids (Briat et al. CITATION). To this extend, we stained isolated protoplasts with DAPI (Fig. 4a) and analysed the localisation of atNDPK2-GFP in parallel (Fig. 4b). The overlay of both pictures clearly shows that the signal obtained from atNDPK2-RFP co-localised with DAPI stained nucleoids. To validate this further, we investigated atNDPK2-GFP localisation in comparison with the nucleoid marker protein Apo1 (Amann et al. CITATION), which was fused to RFP (Fig. 4c). Again the overlay shows an unambiguous co-localisation of atNDPK2 with nucleoids, suggesting that NDPK2 in plastids might have a dual role in nucleotide homeostasis and gene regulation, as was demonstrated in other systems (Postel et al. CITATION). [[FIGURE]]  To determine if the spatial proximity of atNDPK2 to plastid nucleoids mirrors a direct interaction we purified nucleoids from Arabidopsis chloroplasts and analysed the obtained fraction by immuno staining with antibodies against SiR, an enzyme that had been reported to bind to nucleoids (Chi-Ham et al. CITATION), FNR and NDPK (Fig. 4d). The purified nucleoids (Ncl) contain SiR as expected, but FNR and NDPK are only found in samples from the first two washing steps (S1, S2).
!~MM~! Mouse ear cress seeds (A. thaliana var. Col-O) were obtained from Lehle Seeds (Round Rock, TX, USA). They were sown on soil and grown for 8–12 days at 21°C under a 16 h light/8 h dark regiment. The open reading frame for full length atNDPK2 was amplified by PCR from Arabidopsis cDNA using the following oligonucleotides: N2a_Ara_NheI_for (5′-ctagctagcatggtgggagcg-3′) and N2a_Ara_KpnI_rev (5′-cggggtaccgctcccttagcc-3′). It was cloned into the pPol-GFP vector using the NheI- and KpnI-sites. The RT-PCR (Invitrogen, Karlsruhe, Germany) and RACE-PCR (SD SMART RACE cDNA Amplification kit, Clontech, Mountain View, CA, USA) were performed according to the manufacturer’s recommendation. SDS-PAGE was performed according to Laemmli (CITATION). Gels were stained either with Coomassie Brilliant Blue R250 or silver-stained as described by Blum (Blum et al. CITATION). For immunodetection, proteins were transferred on a nitrocellulose membrane by semi-dry blotting. Immunodecoration and detection was done by using the alkaline phosphatase system as described. SPS-antibody was purchased from Agrisera (Sweden). For the detection of 35S-labelled proteins, the gels were stained with Coomassie Blue and vacuum dried, then exposed on phosphor-imaging plates (BASMS, Fuji Photo Film Co. Ltd, Tokyo, Japan) for 2–16 h. The plates were screened using phosphoimage scanner FLA-3000. Mass spectrometry was performed by MALDI-TOF. In-vitro transcription of linearised plasmids was carried out in a reaction volume of 50 μl containing transcription buffer (supplied by Fermentas, St Leon-Rot, Germany), 10 mM DTT, 100U RNase inhibitor, 0.05% (wtv) BSA, 0.5 mM ATP, CTP, and UTP, 0.375 mM m7-guanosin (5′) ppp (5′) guanosin (cap), 10U T7 RNA polymerase and 2–2.5 μg plasmid DNA. The reaction mixture was incubated for 15 min at 37°C to yield RNA with cap at the 5′ end. Finally, 1.2 mM GTP was added and transcription mixture was incubated for another 60–90 min. The mRNA obtained was either used directly for in vitro translation or stored at −80°C. In vitro translation of mRNA was carried out using the reticulocyte lysate or wheat germ translation kit (Promega, Madison, WI, USA), following the manufacturer’s instructions, with optimal RNA concentration and adjusted potassium acetate and magnesium acetate, which were determined by test translation. 2.7 MBq of [35 S]-methionine/cysteine mixture were added for radioactive labelling. A standard import reaction contained chloroplasts equivalent to 20 μg chlorophyll in 100 μl import buffer (10 mM methionine, 10 mM cysteine, 20 mM potassium gluconate, 10 mM NaHCO3, 1% BSA (w/v), 330 mM sorbitol, 50 mM Hepes/KOH, pH 7.6, 5 mM MgCl2) and up to 10% in vitro translation product. Import reactions were initiated by the addition of translation product and carried out for 15 min at 25°C. Reactions were terminated by separation of chloroplasts from the reaction mixture by centrifugation through a 40% (v/v) Percoll cushion in import buffer. Chloroplasts were washed once and import products separated by SDS-PAGE and radiolabelled proteins analysed by a phosphorimager. Chloroplasts were pelleted from the import reaction at 1,500g for 1 min at 4°C, resuspended in 100 μl digestion buffer (330 mM sorbitol, 50 mM Hepes/KOH, pH 7.6, 0.5 mM CaCl2). The reaction was started with the addition of thermolysin (200 μg/mg chlorophyll) and was incubated on ice for 20 min. The proteolysis was stopped by addition of EDTA to 10 mM final concentration; chloroplasts were pelleted again and washed in the digestion buffer with addition of 5 mM EDTA.  Arabidopsis thaliana chloroplasts were isolated from the leaves of 3–4 week old plants. The leaves were grinded in isolation buffer (50 mM Tris/HCl, pH 8.0, 20 mM EDTA, 330 mM sorbitol, 14.3 mM β-mercaptoethanol) and the suspension was filtered through gauze. Chloroplasts were collected after centrifugation (3 min at 1,000g, 4°C) and purified over a 30/82% Percoll gradient (1,500 g for 15 min, 4°C). Intact chloroplasts were collected from the 82% interface and washed twice with isolation buffer. Protoplasts were isolated as described (Sheen CITATION). For PEG transformation all steps were conducted at 23°C. About 10–20 μg of DNA was mixed with 4 × 104 protoplasts in MMg buffer (0.4 M mannitol, 15 mM MgCl2, 4 mM Mes pH 5.7). 110 μl of PEG/Ca were added, mixed well and incubated for 10 min. Around 500 μl wash buffer (154 mM NaCl, 125 mM CaCl2, 5 mM KCl, 2 mM Mes, pH 5.7) were added, mixed well and protoplasts were pelleted for one min at 100g. The supernatant was removed carefully and protoplasts were gently resuspended in wash buffer. The suspension was transferred to a small Petri dish and incubated in the dark over night at 23°C. On the following day, protoplasts were analysed by laser scanning microscopy. Protoplasts were isolated as described (Sheen CITATION). Protoplasts were ruptured by passage through a 60 μm syringe. Chloroplasts were then pelleted at 3,000g for 5 min and the supernatant further centrifuged for 30 min at 150,000g resulting in an enriched cytosolic fraction. Leaves were ground in liquid nitrogen and the powder was resuspended in 40 mM Hepes/KOH pH 7.6, 100 mM KAc, 1 mM MgAc, 4 mM DTT, pH 7.6. Cell debris was pelleted for 5 min at 1,000g. Transformed protoplasts were fixed with 2% paraformaldehyde (PFA) in PBS for 5 min, washed once with PBS and then permeabilised with 0.2% TritonX-100 for 5 min, followed by washing 3 times with PBS. They were then stained with 1 pg/ml final concentration of DAPI (4′,6-diamidino-2phenylindolehydrochloride) for 10 min, washed 3 times with PBS and observed under the microscope. Chloroplasts were isolated as described above. They were pelleted and resuspended in 5 ml of nucleoid isolation buffer (17% w/v sucrose, 20 mM Tris/HCl, 0.5 mM EDTA, 1.2 mM spermidine, 7 mM 2-mercaptoethanol, 1 mM PMSF, one tablet Complete (Roche, Mannheim, Germany), pH 7.6, 2% nonidet P-40 was added drop wise and allowed to stir at 4°C for 30 min. It was then centrifuged for 10 min at 3,000g at 4°C. The supernatant (S1) was taken and further centrifuged at 48,000g for 40 min at 4°C. The supernatant (S2) was removed and the pellet (P1) was resuspended with a syringe in isolation buffer. This was further centrifuged for 40 min at 48,000g at 4°C. The supernatant (S3) was removed and the pellet was resuspended in 1 ml buffer, followed by another centrifugation step. The supernatant (S4) was removed. This was removed and the pellet containing the nucleoid fraction was resuspended in 200 μl buffer.
