!~ABS~! Genome sequencing has resulted in the identification of a large number of uncharacterized genes with unknown functions. It is widely recognized that determination of the intracellular localization of the encoded proteins may aid in identifying their functions. To facilitate these localization experiments, we have generated a series of fluorescent organelle markers based on well-established targeting sequences that can be used for co-localization studies. In particular, this organelle marker set contains indicators for the endoplasmic reticulum, the Golgi apparatus, the tonoplast, peroxisomes, mitochondria, plastids and the plasma membrane. All markers were generated with four different fluorescent proteins (FP) (green, cyan, yellow or red FPs) in two different binary plasmids for kanamycin or glufosinate selection, respectively, to allow for flexible combinations. The labeled organelles displayed characteristic morphologies consistent with previous descriptions that could be used for their positive identification. Determination of the intracellular distribution of three previously uncharacterized proteins demonstrated the usefulness of the markers in testing predicted subcellular localizations. This organelle marker set should be a valuable resource for the plant community for such co-localization studies. In addition, the Arabidopsis organelle marker lines can also be employed in plant cell biology teaching labs to demonstrate the distribution and dynamics of these organelles.
!~RES~! The organelle markers in this set are based on targeted localization of FPs to specific subcellular compartments. The localization information for most constructs was provided by well-established short targeting signals, so that the markers did not introduce any new enzymatic activity that might alter cellular behavior. Despite this attempt to provide minimal interference with cellular function, it is possible that the mere presence of an overexpressed marker protein may disrupt, for example, the transport of normal residents of these organelles. However, we have not observed any obvious deleterious effects of the marker proteins on plant growth and development after several generations. The plastid marker was based on the targeting sequence (first 79 aa) of the small subunit of tobacco rubisco (CITATION), whereas mitochondrial targeting was achieved by incorporating the first 29 aa of yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) cytochrome c oxidase IV (ScCOX4; CITATION). Fluorescent proteins were imported into peroxisomes after addition of the peroxisomal targeting signal 1 (PTS1, Ser-Lys-Leu) at their C-termini (CITATION). Golgi localization was based on the cytoplasmic tail and transmembrane domain (first 49 aa) of GmMan1, soybean α-1,2-mannosidase I (CITATION). The ER marker was created by combining the signal peptide of AtWAK2 (Arabidopsis thaliana wall-associated kinase 2; CITATION) at the N-terminus of the FP and the ER retention signal His-Asp-Glu-Leu at its C-terminus (CITATION). The only exceptions from the use of well-defined short targeting signals were the tonoplast and plasma membrane markers, which were based instead on fusions to full-length proteins. In particular, tonoplast localization was achieved by fusing the coding region of the FP to the C-terminus of γ-TIP, an aquaporin of the vacuolar membrane (CITATION). This approach was necessary as targeting signals for tonoplast proteins have not been established, and soluble FPs in the lumen of vacuoles often lack fluorescence signals because of the low pH of the vacuole (CITATION). It should be noted that γ-TIP may not label all vacuolar membranes (CITATION); however, it provides an excellent marker for the tonoplast surrounding the large central vacuole of mature plant cells. Plasma membrane labeling was based on the full-length coding region of AtPIP2A, a plasma membrane aquaporin (CITATION). All markers were generated with four different FPs, GFP, CFP, YFP and mCherry (a red FP; CITATION) to provide flexibility for different co-localization experiments (Table 1). For example, the CFP-based markers could be used in combination with YFP-labeled proteins to test localization of the unknown protein to a specific organelle, or vice versa. GFP markers can be used in double-labeling experiments together with the red mCherry constructs or rhodamine-labeled antibodies. All markers employ the strong and nearly ubiquitously expressed 35S promoter with dual enhancer elements (d35S), with the exception of the green tonoplast markers that are driven by regular 35S promoters. The markers were constructed in two different binary expression vectors for Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated plant transformation, to allow for kanamycin or glufosinate (basta) selection, respectively (Table 1). Finally, the kanamycin-selection plasmids were used to create stable Arabidopsis lines with GFP-, CFP- or YFP-labeled organelles (Table 1). Both the binary plasmids and plant lines are made available through the Arabidopsis stock centers (http://www.arabidopsis.org). Nomenclature of markers: abbreviations to the left of hyphens indicate the targeted organelle; the color of the construct and selection in plants is indicated on the right; c, CFP; g, GFP; y, YFP; r, mCherry; k, kanamycin selection; b, basta (glufosinate) selection. Italicized numbers (CD3-xxx or CS162xx) indicate ABRC stock numbers (http://www.arabidopsis.org). The labeled organelles included in this set are the ER, the Golgi apparatus, the tonoplast, peroxisomes, mitochondria, plastids and the plasma membrane. Other organelles, such as the endosomes or pre-vacuolar compartments, have been excluded from this collection as short targeting signals have not been identified for them. Furthermore, the only known marker proteins for post-Golgi organelles are directly involved in trafficking to or from these organelles (e.g. Rab proteins, CITATION; SNAREs, CITATION; or sorting receptors, CITATION), and may interfere with the normal functioning of the organelle. The nucleus was also not included in this set as its prominent size makes identification trivial. In the following text we describe some characteristic features of the FP-labeled organelles that can aid in their identification. All images presented in this report have been generated with conventional epifluorescence microscopy to illustrate the appearance of the organelles as seen through the eyepieces of a microscope. For an in-depth introduction to live-cell microscopy readers are referred to a recent tutorial (CITATION). Organelles in eukaryotic cells can be grouped, based on their appearance in the microscope, into those that are predominantly small and round, and those that have a long, extended morphology. Organelles in the first group are typically present in many copies per cell, leading to a punctate pattern of the organelle marker. The extended organelles, on the other hand, are usually found as a single interconnected structure that stretches throughout the cytoplasm, leading to a tubular or sheet-like morphology. The appearance of the organelles, particularly in the second group, depends critically on the position of the focal plane within the cell. In most cases, visualization of the organelles in the plane of the cortical cytoplasm underlying the plasma membrane is most informative. All the organelles labeled with this set of markers with the expeption of the plasma membrane show an actin-myosin-dependent movement in the cytoplasm (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). This movement is most easily recognized for punctate organelles, but also occurs for the more extended organelles (CITATION; CITATION). Plastids are often the largest of the punctate organelles, ranging in size from 2–3 μm for proplastids (Figure 1a–c) to roughly 5 μm for fully developed chloroplasts. Whereas chloroplasts can be easily identified by their green color in bright-field microscopy and by their typical red chlorophyll fluorescence, other plastid forms can benefit from the organelle markers provided in this set. This is particularly relevant for epidermal cells that are usually targeted by particle bombardment or leaf infiltration, and are easily accessible to fluorescent microscopy. In the epidermis, plastids can vary in size from cell to cell, but within a cell they have a fairly uniform diameter (Figure 1a,b). A unique characteristic of plastids is the occasional presence of long tubular branches, known as stromules (Figure 1a,c). These stromules are extensions of the plastid envelope that are filled with stroma, and therefore contain the soluble plastid marker (CITATION). Not all plastids possess stromules, but when present they can be used as an identifying characteristic. [[FIGURE]] Mitochondria are typically small (approximately 0.5 μm in diameter), round and are present in high copy numbers in every cell (Figure 1d). However, their morphology can vary dramatically as a result of the fusion and fission of these organelles (CITATION). Some cells may contain mitochondria that are a few micrometers long (Figure 1e,f); others may take on a worm-like shape or appear as beads on a string (CITATION). These different morphologies can be observed from one cell to the next, but within a given cell all mitochondria display similar morphology. In rare cases, thin tubular extensions, so-called matrixules, can be observed that appear to be similar to the stromules of plastids (CITATION). Peroxisomes also are small, typically round, organelles (CITATION). However, unlike mitochondria and plastids, their size can vary within a single cell from <0.5 to 2 μm (Figure 1g). In photosynthetically active cells, peroxisomes are often found in association with chloroplasts (CITATION) where they participate in photorespiration. The number of peroxisomes varies from cell to cell. The Golgi apparatus consists of a large number of small (<1 μm) independent stacks (Figure 1h). The individual Golgi stacks can appear as perfectly round discs, as short lines or in the shape of small rings, depending on orientation and status (CITATION). The Golgi marker may also show weak ER labeling, resulting from the continuous recycling of Golgi resident proteins through the ER (CITATION). The identity of the FP spots as Golgi can also be ascertained by treatment with brefeldin A (BFA), which leads to a fusion of Golgi and ER membranes and relocalization of Golgi proteins into the ER (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). However, some trans-Golgi proteins can also respond to BFA by forming large clusters in the perinuclear region, the so-called BFA compartments (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The ER forms, as the name indicates, an extensive network throughout the cytoplasm. This network is best observed by focusing on the cortical cytoplasm just under the plasma membrane (Figure 2a). In this case, a fine network of clearly delineated tubular and sheet-like ER elements can be discerned. The signal difference between the dark areas in the lacunae and the ER elements is substantial and distinct. By contrast, cytoplasmic FPs would be seen as diffuse fluorescence (Figure 2, compare i and j). Some cell types, particularly in the seedling epidermis, also contain bright, elongated structures known as fusiform bodies or ER bodies (Figure 2b). These fusiform bodies are about 5 μm in length and 1-μm wide, and are local extensions of the ER that contain vegetative storage proteins (CITATION). Formation of fusiform bodies can be induced by wounding, and depends on methyl jasmonate signaling (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] When fully expanded cells are viewed in a medial plane, the ER is seen only in the thin layer of cytoplasm underneath the plasma membrane and surrounding the nucleus (Figure 2g). The cortical ER often takes on a stippled appearance resulting from its network character. The perinuclear labeling, however, is more uniform because the ER is continuous with the nuclear envelope (Figure 2c). The ER marker can therefore also reveal the dynamic morphology of the nucleus (CITATION). The tonoplast is the delimiting membrane around the vacuole, and in fully expanded cells stretches throughout the cell revealing the large size of the central vacuole (Figure 2h). Occasional transvacuolar strands seem to bisect the vacuole (Figure 2e); these represent cytoplasmic tunnels that traverse the lumen of the continuous vacuole and are permanently remodeled (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Transvacuolar strands are delimited by the tonoplast and can contain all other cytoplasmic organelles, with the exception of the nucleus. Some cells, particularly in rapidly expanding tissues of seedlings, contain circular structures of varying size (1–10 μm) inside the lumen of the vacuole (Figure 2d). These structures are sometimes referred to as ‘bulbs’, and are invaginations of the tonoplast membrane that are continuous with the outer vacuolar membrane (CITATION). The number of bulbs per cell appears to correlate with the expression level of the marker, although they are also found in untransformed cells (CITATION). The tonoplast is almost invisible when viewed in a focal plane close to the plasma membrane because the fluorescence signal is more or less uniform across the field of view (not shown). However, it can be visualized easily in cross section, i.e. when focusing near the center of the cell. In this focal plane, the ER may be mistaken for the tonoplast because of their largely similar distribution and the thinness of the cytoplasm in fully expanded cells (Figure 2, compare g and h). However, the fluorescence signal of the tonoplast marker is very uniform in both intensity and thickness. In contrast, the ER signal is often patterned and of variable thickness, reflecting the distance of the tonoplast from the plasma membrane. Another distinctive feature that allows the discrimination of these two organelles is their distribution around the nucleus. The tonoplast approaches the nucleus only on the side facing the interior of the cell, whereas the ER is also found between the nucleus and the plasma membrane (Figure 2, compare c and f). The plasma membrane surrounds the cytoplasm on all sides as a single layer. Hence, proteins that localize to this membrane display uniform labeling along the surface of the cell (Figure 2k), which is similar to the tonoplast (Figure 2h) but different from the patterned labeling seen for ER-localized proteins (Figure 2g). Unlike the tonoplast (or the ER), however, the plasma membrane does not enter the interior of the cell, and is not found in transvacuolar strands or on the side of the nucleus facing the vacuole. The plasma membrane marker can also be used to define the area of the cell wall by identifying the surfaces of two neighboring cells (not shown). The organelle markers presented here can be used to localize uncharacterized proteins. To illustrate this process we have chosen three Arabidopsis genes, the products of which have not previously been examined cytologically for their intracellular distribution. Some of the proteins were selected based on their predicted targeting signals, whereas others were selected because their annotated location was contradicted by organelle-specific proteomics. For all candidates, intracellular localization was predicted by several web-based algorithms (for details, see Experimental procedures). Coding regions of the genes were amplified from cDNA and fused at the N-terminus of YFP, as none of the proteins contained any known C-terminal targeting signals. Plasmids containing expression cassettes of the YFP fusions were bombarded into Arabidopsis leaf epidermal cells of CFP organelle marker lines, or were co-bombarded with CFP-based markers. In Figure 3 the CFP organelle marker is false-colored magenta, whereas the candidate YFP signal is false-colored green. [[FIGURE]] The At1g22590 gene is annotated as encoding a putative MADS box protein, which suggests a putative function as a transcription factor in the nucleus (CITATION). However, several computer programs predicted import of this protein into mitochondria (Table 2). Only PSORT gave equal probability of mitochondrial and nuclear targeting (Table 2). The At1g22590-YFP fusion protein was localized predominantly in a large, round area (Figure 3a); however, weak diffuse YFP fluorescence was also detected throughout the cytoplasm. None of the organelle markers in this set matched this distribution; most notably the mitochondrial marker gave a very different labeling pattern (Figure 3a). The size of the YFP-labeled spot is consistent with it being the nucleus. This interpretation was indirectly supported by comparison with the ER-CFP marker, which surrounded the At1g22590-YFP fluorescence on all sides (Figure 3b). Thus, the co-localization experiment corroborated the annotation of At1g22590 as a putative transcription factor, and contradicted most bioinformatic predictions. n.p., no prediction; ER, endoplasmic reticulum. The At3g15000 gene is annotated as similar to the DAG (differentiation and greening) gene from Antirrhinum majus, which is necessary for chloroplast differentiation as well as palisade development (CITATION). The prediction algorithms gave nearly equal probability for chloroplast and mitochondrial localization (Table 2). Interestingly, the At3g15000 protein was isolated with the mitochondrial proteome of suspension cell cultures (CITATION). The At3g15000-YFP fusion protein was co-localized exclusively with the mitochondria-CFP marker (Figure 3c), confirming the proteomic data. However, we cannot formally exclude the possibility that At3g15000 could also be imported into chloroplasts in green tissues because we have only observed epidermal cells. The last candidate tested, At5g19750, is annotated as a member of the 22-kDa peroxisomal membrane protein gene family. Most of the prediction programs used in this study are not able to identify peroxisomal targeting sequences, and instead return a wide range of different localizations. Even PSORT, the only program specifically able to predict peroxisomal targeting, gave the secretory pathway as the likely localization. Curiously, the At5g19750 protein was identified as part of the chloroplast proteome (CITATION). Comparison of At5g19750-YFP labeling with the peroxisome-CFP marker did not reveal any co-localized signals (Figure 3d). Instead, the fusion protein labeled larger structures reminiscent of plastids. Expression of At5g19750-YFP in the plastid-CFP marker lines demonstrated limited co-localization, with the YFP signal forming a thin border surrounding the CFP-labeled stroma (Figure 3e). This pattern is suggestive of localization of At5g19750-YFP to the plastid envelope (inner or outer membrane). Thus, the experimentally determined localization is consistent with the proteomic data and contradicts the gene annotation. In summary, the organelle markers lines have allowed us to quickly determine the subcellular localization of previously uncharacterized proteins. This experimental evidence of organelle targeting sometimes contradicted the computational predictions from various algorithms. These discrepancies should not come as a surprise, as the output of the prediction programs is usually based on only partially defined targeting signals that allow a high degree of sequence variability. Unless targeting signals are defined more precisely, based on large-scale localization experiments similar to those described here, all prediction algorithms will suffer from a high level of misinterpretation. Furthermore, many of the prediction algorithms focus only on a subset of organelles (e.g. PredoTar for mitochondria and plastids; CITATION) and are therefore not useful to analyze proteins that target to other compartments. A more important conclusion from our brief survey is that the YFP-fusion approach, in combination with this organelle marker set, can be used to efficiently test unexpected results from organelle proteomics. Identification of unanticipated proteins within subcellular fractions could result either from spurious contamination or from incorrect assumptions. Localization studies such as those described here can provide an independent test of the proteomic data, and can thus be used to distinguish between these possibilities. A limitation of the simple approach described here is that it relies on transient expression of FP fusions in epidermal tissues. A further concern must be that the fusion site on the candidate protein should not interfere with any targeting signals necessary for proper localization. This can be avoided by sequence comparison to established targeting sequences (e.g. http://www.expasy.org/tools), although not all possible targeting sequences are currently known. A good general approach may be to insert the FP moiety shortly before the C-terminus of the candidate protein, provided that this does not disrupt known protein domains (CITATION). Tissue-specific targeting of the markers to different organelles does not appear to be an issue. The organelles represented in this marker set appear to rely on targeting mechanisms that probably exist in all cell types. We have not observed any alternative labeling patterns in a wide variety of tissues of the transgenic lines for all marker constructs. In those rare situations where an uncharacterized protein appears to target differently depending on the cell type, the use of the native promoters of the candidate gene in combination with the organelle marker plants should reveal the correct intracellular localization.
!~MM~! All organelle markers were first assembled and tested in pBluescript (Stratagene, http://www.stratagene.com) based expression vectors that contained GFP, CFP, YFP or mCherry, respectively, flanked by a double 35S promoter and the nopaline synthase (nos) 3′ polyA signal (AN, unpublished data). Plastid markers were created by amplification of the targeting signal from tobacco rubisco small subunit cDNA (a kind gift of Dr Bruce, University of Tennessee; CITATION) with the primers 5′-CGAGCTAGCATGGCTTCCTCAGTTCTTTC and 5′-GCAGGATCCGCTCAAATCAGGAAGGTATGA and insertion in front of the FP after digestion with NheI and BamHI (restriction sites are underlined in the primer sequences). The mitochondrial targeting signal of yeast ScCOX4 (CITATION) was amplified from genomic DNA (a kind gift of Dr Masi, University of Tennessee) with the primers 5′-CGATCTAGAATGCTTTCACTACGTCAATCTATAA and 5′-GCAGGATCCGGGTTTTTGCTGAAGCAGATATC and ligated in front of the FP gene after XbaI/BamHI digest. Peroxisomal markers are based on published vectors similar to ours (CITATION), but with an additional tobacco mosaic virus (TMV) translational enhancer element in front of the FP coding region. The PTS1 sequence was encoded on a synthetic oligonucleotide (5′-GATCGAAGCTGTAAAGATCTAGA) and inserted in frame at the C-terminus of the FPs after BglII/XbaI digest. The Golgi marker has been described previously as Man49-GFP (CITATION). The ER marker was created by first inserting a synthetic oligonucleotide encoding HDEL (5′-AGATCTCATGACGAGCTGTAACTGCAGTCTAGA) at the C-terminus of the FP genes and subsequently adding the signal peptide of AtWAK2 (CITATION) at the N-terminus. Amplification of the signal peptide from a cDNA (a kind gift of Dr Kohorn, Duke University) was achieved with primers 5′-CGATCTAGAGAGAAGATGAAGGTACAGGAG and 5′-GCAGGATCCGCACTCCTTGCGAGGTTGC. The GFP tonoplast marker was a kind gift of Dr Nakano (RIKEN) and was first described by CITATION. To create the other FP versions, the γ-TIP coding region was excised from the original plasmid with XbaI/BamHI digest and ligated into expression vectors encoding CFP, YFP or mCherry, respectively. The plasma membrane marker is based on a full-length fusion of the aquaporin PIP2A to FPs. PIP2A cDNA (GenBank accession X75883.1) was amplified from leaf cDNA using the primers 5′-ACGTCTAGAATGGCAAAGGATGTGGAAGC and 5′-GCAGGATCCGACGTTGGCAGCACTTCTGA and inserted in front of the FP coding region after XbaI/BamHI digest. All marker plasmids were confirmed by sequencing and were tested by particle bombardment into onion epidermal peels. The expression cassettes were then moved with conventional restriction digestion followed by DNA ligation into two different binary plasmids, pBIN20 (CITATION) and a pFGC5941 derivative (CITATION), respectively. Transgenic A. thaliana lines (Col) were created with the pBIN-based binary plasmids by the floral-dip method (CITATION) and selected with kanamycin. At1g22590 was chosen for its predicted localization to mitochondria. At3g15000 and At5g19750 were chosen from the SUBA database (http://www.suba.bcs.uwa.edu.au; CITATION) from a list of proteins that were not previously localized by fluorescence microscopy. For the proteins selected, annotations of protein function were obtained from SUBA and/or the gene locus information from TAIR (http://www.arabidopsis.org). Several programs were used to predict subcellular localization and to identify potential targeting regions that could be disrupted by the translational fusion to YFP. These programs can be accessed at the ExPASy website (http://www.expasy.org). Programs used to predict subcellular localization were WolfPSORT (CITATION), PSORT (CITATION), iPSORT (CITATION), TargetP.1 (CITATION), MitoProt II (CITATION) and Predotar (CITATION). Programs for the identification of known domains and transmembrane regions were TMHMM (CITATION), TMpred (CITATION), SOSUI (CITATION; CITATION) and TopPred (CITATION). RNA was purified from A. thaliana leaves and flowers, and was amplified by reverse transcriptase PCR (RT-PCR). At1 g22590 was amplified from flower cDNA with the primers 5′-CGAGCTAGCATGGGAAGAAGAAAAGTTAC and 5′-GCAGACGTCGTCTCTCTTGATGATTGGTGC. At3 g15000 and At5 g19750 were amplified from leaf cDNA with the primers 5′-CGAGCTAGCATGGCGACGCATACC and 5′-GCAGGATCCACCCTGGTAGGGGTT or 5′-CGAGCTAGCATGCTTAACTCTATC and 5′-GCAGGATCCCTTTGCAACAACTTC, respectively. Once amplified, At1g22590 was digested with AatII and BamHI, and At3g15000 and At5g19750 were digested with NheI and BamHI and were inserted between a double 35S promoter and the YFP coding region of a pBluescript-based expression vector (pAN95; unpublished data, A. Nebenführ). As the C-terminus of the encoded proteins did not contain a predicted transmembrane domain or a predicted targeting sequence, we did not expect any changes in protein localization to result from these C-terminal fusions. All insertions were confirmed by DNA sequencing. Plasmids containing the genes encoding the uncharacterized proteins and/or the organelle markers were bombarded into 10-day-old Arabidopsis seedlings, young (1-cm long) leaves of 3-week-old Arabidopsis or onion epidermal peels following the manufacturer’s recommendations. Briefly, between 100 ng and 1 μg of plasmid DNA was coated on 25 μl of 60 mg ml−1 tungsten particles (Bio-Rad M10, 0.7 μm; Bio-Rad, http://www.bio-rad.com) in the presence of 1 m MgCl2 and 15 mm spermidine for at least 5 min on a vortex mixer. Plasmid-coated particles were dehydrated with several ethanol washes and allowed to dry on plastic discs. Particles were accelerated with a helium burst at 1100 psi in a PDS-1000/He instrument (Bio-Rad). Seedlings (on half-strength MS plates) were returned to the growth chamber and detached leaves were kept in a moist chamber in the dark. For onion epidermal peels, the same procedure was followed except that 1-μm tungsten particles (Bio-Rad M17) were used and the peels were kept on half-strength MS plates overnight in the dark. On the following day (16–24 h after bombardment), the localization of the expressed proteins was visualized with an Axiovert 200 m microscope (Zeiss, http://www.zeiss.com) equipped with filters for YFP and CFP fluorescence (filter set 52017; Chroma, http://www.chroma.com). Transformed cells were first identified under a 20× objective before representative cells were observed with a 63× (1.4 NA) plan-apo oil immersion objective. Images were captured with a digital camera (Orca ER; Hamamatsu Photonics, http://www.hamamatsu.com) controlled by openlab software (Improvision, http://www.improvision.com). After background subtraction to remove camera noise, contrast enhancement was performed to increase signal intensity and remove low-level background fluorescence. For co-localization experiments, YFP signals were false-colored green and CFP signals were false-colored magenta (red + blue). Photographs were subsequently processed for optimal presentation with photoshop 7.0 (Adobe, http://www.adobe.com).
