!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) AAA ATPase CDC48A was fused to cerulean fluorescent protein and yellow fluorescent protein. AAA ATPases like CDC48 are only active in hexameric form. Förster resonance energy transfer-based fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy using CDC48A-cerulean fluorescent protein and CDC48A-yellow fluorescent protein showed interaction between two adjacent protomers, demonstrating homo-oligomerization occurs in living plant cells. Interaction between CDC48A and the SOMATIC EMBRYOGENESIS RECEPTOR-LIKE KINASE1 (SERK1) transmembrane receptor occurs in very restricted domains at the plasma membrane. In these domains the predominant form of the fluorescently tagged CDC48A protein is a hexamer, suggesting that SERK1 is associated with the active form of CDC48A in vivo. SERK1 trans-phosphorylates CDC48A on Ser-41. Förster resonance energy transfer-fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy was used to show that in vivo the C-terminal domains of CDC48A stay in close proximity. Employing fluorescence correlation spectroscopy, it was shown that CDC48A hexamers are part of larger complexes.
!~RES~! The CDC48A protein and various mutants used in this study are depicted in Figure 1A. CDC48A consists of the N domain, the D1 and D2 domains connected by a linker, and the C-terminal tail. The YFP tag is shown here as a C-terminal fusion, and in appropriate constructs it was replaced by CrFP and/or placed at the N terminus. The CDC48AA1A2 mutant contains the K254T and K527T mutations in the Walker A motifs of the D1 and D2 domains, which inhibit ATP binding and in vitro severely delay hexamerization in the mammalian homolog p97/VCP (CITATION). The N-deletion (CDC48ANdel) mutant lacks the N domain (amino acids 1–188), which in other homologs is responsible for binding to cofactors like P47, Ufd1-Npl4, and ubiquitinated substrates (CITATION; CITATION). The CDC48AN-D1 mutant lacks the D2 domain and the linker region between D1 and D2 (from amino acid 448 to the C terminus). The D1-D2 linker was shown to be important for hexamerization of VCP (CITATION) in vitro. To investigate whether the CDC48A-YFP proteins are indeed capable of forming a hexameric complex, the CDC48A-YFP and mutant genes were transiently expressed in Arabidopsis protoplasts and analyzed on denaturing and nondenaturing PAGE. Western-blot analysis (Fig. 1B) shows that in protoplasts the various proteins confirm the expected sizes of approximately 125 kD for CDC48A and CDC48AA1A2, 96 kD for CDC48ANdel 1-188, and 77 kD for CDC48AN-D1. The estimated size of the full-length CDC48A protein after native PAGE is about 700 to 750 kD, in line with the calculated size of 625 to 750 kD, the difference depending on the number of GFP tags present (Fig. 1C). However, about 5% to 10% of the YFP-tagged protein appears to remain as monomers. Surprisingly, the CDC48AA1A2 protein is also predominantly found as a hexamer on native PAGE, despite the mutations delaying hexamerization. In a longer exposure of the western blot, CDC48AA1A2 does show a monomeric protein fraction (data not shown). CDC48ANdel 1-188 shows bands of various sizes, but most prominently the monomeric band. In a study by Wang and coworkers, a VCP mutant lacking amino acids 1 to 141 of the N domain is still able to hexamerize in vitro (CITATION). Our data show that the CDC48ANdel protein lacking the complete N domain (amino acids 1–188) is most likely in the monomeric form. The CDC48AN-D1 protein runs as a monomer, in line with the results presented by CITATION. To compare the localizations of the different CDC48A mutant proteins, they were coexpressed with CDC48C-CrFP, shown to localize solely to the nucleus (CITATION). The localization of the CDC48A protein is at the PM, in the cytoplasm, and in the ER, but a small fraction also was observed in the nucleus (CITATION). In Figure 2 , images of the nucleus of CDC48A are shown in the focal plane. CDC48A colocalizes with CDC48C in the nucleus (Fig. 2, A–C) and also localizes to the PM and the cytoplasm. The PM is not in the focal plane and can therefore not be seen. The merge shows an overlay of the cells containing chloroplasts in red, CDC48A in yellow, and the nucleus in cyan. The CDC48AN-D1 protein (Fig. 2, D–F) is found in the cytoplasm but not in the nucleus (arrowhead in Fig. 2D). This can be explained by the Tyr-808 residue, comparable to Tyr-834 in yeast cdc48p and shown to be required for nuclear translocation (CITATION) and that is present in the deleted part of CDC48A. Apparently, although the two nuclear localization signals are still present in the mutant, these are not sufficient for nuclear targeting. A similar observation was made for the mammalian CDC48 ortholog VCP (CITATION). To our surprise, the CDC48ANdel protein (Fig. 2, G–I), lacking the nuclear localization signal sequences, still localizes to the nucleus (Fig. 2, compare G with H). For VCP, cytoplasmic localization was described when the N domain of the protein was removed (CITATION), and CITATION found that hexamerization of this protein in vitro could still take place. The CDC48AA1A2 protein (Fig. 2, J–L) is found in the cytoplasm as well as in the nucleus. We conclude based on the hexamerization status in vitro and the localization of the mutant proteins in cells that complete hexamerization of CDC48A is not required for nuclear localization. [[FIGURE]] To investigate if the SERK1 receptor interacts in vivo with the hexameric or the monomeric form of CDC48A, the oligomerization of CrFP- and YFP-fused CDC48A protomers in vivo was studied. The CDC48A protein was fused at the C terminus with CrFP or YFP and expressed in Arabidopsis protoplasts. For the FLIM measurements, CDC48A protomers C-terminally fused to CrFP and YFP (Fig. 3A ) were coexpressed, hypothetically leading to a hexamer as shown in the model in Figure 3B. Only four of the six fluorophores are drawn at adjacent positions at the C terminus, but in fact these can be randomly positioned at each C domain. The other combinations used are depicted in Figure 3, C to F. Figure 3C shows a hexamer with the donor at the C terminus and the acceptor at the N terminus; Figure 3D shows a hexamer of CDC48A tagged to CrFP and YFP (both at the N terminus); and Figure 3, E and F, shows a monomer of CDC48AN-D1 and CDC48ANdel with tags only at the C terminus. [[FIGURE]] A maximum energy transfer efficiency of around 50% can only be achieved when fluorophores are approximately 5 nm apart. The distance between two adjacent C termini is not known, but the inner pore diameter of the hexamer is 5.7 nm based on the crystal structure of p97/VCP (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Interaction not only between two adjacent fluorophores but also between two fluorophores on either side of the pore should therefore theoretically be possible. To measure significant energy transfer, the amount of labeled protein has to be relatively high as compared to the amount of endogenous CDC48A. Based on the previous observation that in transfected protoplasts the fluorescent CDC48A level is around 8 times higher than the endogenous level (CITATION), we assume that in a hexamer most of the CDC48A protomers contain a fluorescent tag. First, we investigated if at the locations where CDC48A-SERK1 interaction takes place also oligomerization of the CDC48A proteins occurs. In Figure 4A , the intensity image of the donor molecule CDC48A-CrFP is shown. In the false-color image (Fig. 4B), the average lifetime τ at the PM is shown to be approximately 2.5 to 2.6 ns. As reported previously, coexpression of CDC48A-CrFP and SERK1-YFP resulted in a reduction of the fluorescence lifetime in a punctuate pattern at the membrane (Fig. 4, C and D, inserts). Part of the areas where SERK1 and CDC48A interacted, colocalized with an ER marker but not with an endocytic marker (CITATION). After coexpression of CDC48A-CrFP and CDC48A-YFP, interaction was found in a comparable but more widespread area at the PM (Fig. 4, F, insert). We therefore propose that in those membrane areas where interaction between SERK1 and CDC48A occurs, a substantial amount of CDC48A is in oligomeric form. In Table I , the results of all the measurements are listed. In the top portion, the average lifetimes of the full-length CDC48A proteins are listed, in the middle portion the lifetimes of the monomeric mutant CDC48AN-D1, and in the lower portion the lifetimes of CDC48C. The left side refers to the measurements at the PM; the right side refers to the measurements in the nucleus. The unquenched lifetime of the donor CDC48A-CrFP protein is 2.5 ns in the nucleus as well as at the PM. Figure 4G shows a false-color image of the nucleus of a protoplast expressing only the donor molecule CDC48A-CrFP. In the left upper corner, the corresponding intensity image is shown. [[FIGURE]] FRET-FLIM analysis of CDC48A, ND1 mutant, and CDC48C, fused to CrFP or YFP d, Diameter; Eff., efficiency. Lifetime τ is determined as described in “Materials and Methods.” The distance d (nm) and the FRET efficiency between the CrFP and YFP fluorophores are calculated via Equations 1 and 2. N-D1 proteins are not localized in the nucleus, CDC48C proteins not at the PM. A-Cr is CDC48A-CrFP; A-Cr/Y-A is CDC48A-CrFP/YFP-CDC48A; Cr-A/Y-A is CrFP-CDC48A/YFP-CDC48A; A-Cr/A-Y is CDC48A-CrFP/CDC48A-YFP; N-D1-Cr is N-D1-CrFP; N-D1-Cr/Y is N-D1-CrFP/N-D1-YFP; Cr-C is CrFP-CDC48C; C-Cr/Y-C is CDC48C-CrFP/YFP-CDC48C; Cr-C/Y-C is CrFP-CDC48C/YFP-CDC48C; and C-Cr/C-Y is CDC48C-CrFP/CDC48C-YFP. Subsequently, CDC48A-CrFP- and CDC48A-YFP-tagged proteins were coexpressed. In Figure 4H, an example of a false-color image is shown for the nucleus. This combination shows a significant reduction in lifetime at the PM (Fig. 4F: 2.18 ± 0.04 ns on average; Table I) as well as in the nucleus (2.20 ± 0.07 ns). From the differences in lifetime between donor alone and donor plus acceptor, the distance between the fluorophores can be calculated. The average distance between two fluorophores both at the C terminus is 6.8 nm, with a FRET efficiency of 13.5%. The distances between the N domains and C domains in the CDC48A protein, as calculated from the crystal structure of the mammalian homolog VCP/p97 (CITATION), are approximately 8 nm, which is just outside the range at which FRET can be detected between two fluorophores. To determine this distance for the CDC48A protein, a combination of CDC48A-CrFP and YFP-CDC48A was expressed (see Fig. 3C). The mixed protomers showed a minor reduction in the fluorescence lifetime (A-Cr/Y-A, τ = 2.34 ± 0.04 ns; Fig. 4I; Table I) at the PM and 2.44 ± 0.03 ns in the nucleus (A-Cr/Y-A; Fig. 4J; Table I). Based on the FRET efficiencies between the CrFP and YFP fluorophores, the estimated distance between the N terminus and C terminus using Equations 1 and 2 is between 7.6 nm (for the PM) and 8.5 nm (for the nucleus), which is in agreement with the estimated value for p97/VCP of 8 nm. The crystal structure of p97/VCP also showed that, at the plane of the N domains, the hexameric protein has a diameter of approximately 15 nm. Therefore, fluorescent molecules at opposite positions in CDC48 cannot show FRET, so any interaction resulting in a reduction in lifetime would have to originate from adjacent protomers. CrFP- and YFP-CDC48A proteins were coexpressed (Fig. 4L) and the fluorescence lifetimes were compared with the donor (Fig. 4K). No significant reduction in lifetime was measured at the PM (Cr-A/Y-A, τ = 2.47 ± 0.06 ns; Table I) or in the nucleus (Cr-A/Y-A, τ = 2.55 ± 0.06 ns; Table I). The distance between the N domains is calculated to be between 9.5 nm (for the PM) and 10.6 nm (for the nucleus), again confirming the structure as determined for p97/VCP. The FRET efficiency is only 1.9%, meaning that there is no interaction at all. The CDC48AN-D1-CrFP/-YFP combination did not show a reduction in the fluorescence lifetime (N-D1Cr/Y, τ = 2.40 ± 0.03 ns; Fig. 4N; Table I) compared to the donor alone (N-D1-Cr, τ = 2.48 ± 0.06 ns; Fig. 4M; Table I). The FRET efficiency was only 3.2%, confirming the monomeric nature of this mutant (Fig. 1C) and demonstrating the importance of the D1-D2 linker and/or the D2 domain in the oligomerization. In general, the reduction in lifetime between the donor group CrFP alone and the donor plus the acceptor group YFP was less in the nucleus than in the PM. The reason for differences in lifetimes at the PM or in the nucleus of the same protein could be due to the difference in refractive indices of the environment (CITATION). To confirm the relevance of our protein-protein distance measurements using FRET-FLIM, we next investigated the characteristics of CDC48C, another member of the Arabidopsis ATPase family that, in contrast with CDC48A, is only present in the nucleus (CITATION). Based on the presence of Walker A and B motifs, CDC48C is classified as an AAA ATPase as well and, therefore, the same hexameric structure is expected. The average donor lifetime of CrFP-CDC48C was 2.59 ± 0.03 (Cr-C; Fig. 4K; Table I). The combination of CrFP- and YFP-CDC48C showed a lifetime of 2.44 ± 0.1 ns (Cr-C/Y-C; Fig. 4P; Table I), a significant reduction compared to the donor alone. The FRET efficiency was 5.8%. The combination of CDC48C-CrFP and YFP-CDC48C protomers also showed a minor but significant reduction in lifetime (C-Cr/Y-C, τ = 2.43 ± 0.04 ns; Fig. 4Q; Table I) comparable with the same combination for CDC48A. Coexpressed CDC48C-CrFP and -YFP proteins showed a large reduction in donor lifetime (C-Cr/C-Y, τ = 2.09 ± 0.05 ns; Fig. 4R; Table I) comparable to that of the CDC48A proteins. The distance between the fluorophores was 6.4 nm, with a FRET efficiency of 19.3%. When analyzing FRET-FLIM measurements, average lifetimes are calculated from lifetime distributions in order to compare different combinations. However, spatial distributions may be more illustrative for changes in interactions (CITATION). In Figure 5 , examples of lifetime distribution histograms at the PM are shown for CDC48A-CrFP alone (Fig. 5A), CDC48A-CrFP in combination with CDC48A-YFP (Fig. 5B), and a combination of CrFP-CDC48A and YFP (Fig. 5C). These histograms are examples recorded from protoplasts displaying fluorescence lifetimes as in images Figure 4, B, F, and L, respectively. The nucleus in image Figure 4H is surrounded by chlorophyll, which has a very short lifetime (normally shorter than 1,500 ps) and is indicated in a red color. These lifetimes were not taken into account in the histograms shown in Figure 5 and for the calculations of the average lifetimes. The lifetime distribution histograms clearly show the shift to lower lifetime values when CDC48A-YFP and CDC48A-CrFP were coexpressed (Fig. 5B), while the lack of interaction between the N-terminally placed fluorescent groups is also clearly reflected in the absence of a shift to lower lifetime values (Fig. 5C). For comparison of the various combinations of proteins, combined distribution histograms of five representative experiments for each protein combination were plotted (see supplemental data). [[FIGURE]] Taken together, our observations show YFP/CrFP proteins fused at the C terminus of CDC48A are within the maximal distance for measuring FRET and do interact, which is only possible when the protomers homo-oligomerize and the C termini stay close together rather than protruding out of the molecule. This oligomerization takes place in the ER membrane-based regions at the PM, where SERK1-CDC48A interaction takes place. A combination of CrFP- and YFP-CDC48A proteins shows no reduction in lifetime, suggesting that the N domains of CDC48A, in line with the mushroom-like shape structure of p97/VCP, are not within FRET distance and cannot interact. The N termini of CDC48C, in contrast with CDC48A, are within FRET distance and do interact, suggesting that the N-terminal domains of CDC48C are differently organized and probably closer to each other. In previous work it was shown that SERK1 interacts both with the N domain as well as with the C terminus of CDC48A. To investigate if this interaction involves trans-phosporylation of CDC48A by the SERK1 kinase, an in vitro kinase experiment was performed. The SERK1 kinase domain and full-length CDC48A were produced in Escherichia coli as fusions to glutathione S-transferase (GST), purified and incubated with [γ32-P]ATP. After incubation, the mixture was analyzed by SDS-PAGE and labeled proteins were detected with a PhosphorImager. The SERK1 kinase domain is heavily autophosphorylated (Fig. 6A , lanes 1, 2, and 3) but also trans-phosphorylates CDC48A (arrowhead, lane 1). Next, the experiment was repeated with cold ATP. The 125-kD CDC48A proteins were isolated from the gel, digested with trypsin, and the resulting peptides analyzed by liquid chromatography (LC)-tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS). Only in the sample containing the SERK1 kinase, one phosphorylated Ser residue was found at position 41 of CDC48A, which is located in the N domain. Unfortunately, we did not have any peptide coverage in the C-terminal tail (from amino acid 775 onward; Fig. 6B), where three Sers, three Thrs, and one Tyr are present, so there may be additional targets for SERK1 phosphorylation. [[FIGURE]] To investigate the size of CDC48A complexes in living cells, CDC48A-YFP constructs were expressed in Arabidopsis protoplasts. FCS was used to measure the diffusion times (τdif) of CDC48A-YFP proteins (full length, CDC48AA1A2, CDC48AN-D1, and CDC48ANdel) in the cytoplasm close to the PM and in the nucleus. To estimate cellular viscosities via the Stokes-Einstein equation (Eq. 5), the diffusion time of free YFP in cells was first measured. Differences in the diffusion times of protein molecules can point to mass differences between them and so the diffusion time of CDC48 in cells was measured. The results of the FCS measurements are based on nine independent transfections and summarized in Table II . In Figure 7 , examples of autocorrelation curves are shown (both the raw data and fitted curves) for CDC48A-YFP, CDC48ANdel, CDC48AA1A2, and free YFP in the cytoplasm. Mean of the diffusion constant D (μm2/s) of various proteins, measured by FCS in the cytoplasm and nucleus of protoplasts In the two-sample t test comparing CDC48A with one of the other proteins, the null hypothesis that the mean of the diffusion constants are the same is rejected when the absolute value of P is lower than the 5% significance level and accepted when P is higher. Values for D and rh were calculated via Equations 4 and 5. N-D1 is not expressed in the nucleus. sd is the sd of the D value; N is the number of curves. [[FIGURE]] First, the diffusion time of free YFP in protoplasts was determined in the cytoplasm close to the PM and in the nucleus. The average values for the diffusion times (τdif) for the cytoplasm and for the nucleus are listed in Table II. From the τdif values of each curve, the average diffusion coefficient D (μm2/s) and the hydrodynamic radius rh (nm) were calculated. The diffusion coefficients can be directly compared because, in contrast to the diffusion time, the diffusion coefficient is independent of the structural parameter or the shape of the volume. The hydrodynamic radius rh is a measure for the size of the protein (complex). The diffusion coefficient for free YFP in protoplasts was determined to be 37 μm2/s in the cytoplasm and 30 μm2/s in the nucleus. The calculated hydrodynamic radii were 1.9 nm and 2.3 nm, close to the theoretical rh for free YFP of 2.4 nm. CDC48A-YFP in cells diffuses extremely slowly. A diffusion coefficient (D) of 3.5 μm2/s was found for CDC48A-YFP in the cytoplasm. To answer whether this is due to the hexameric nature of the CDC48A protein, the monomeric CDC48AN-D1-YFP mutant construct was also introduced into protoplasts. The diffusion coefficient of CDC48AN-D1-YFP was found to be 11.7 μm2/s, which is clearly faster than the CDC48A full-length protein. However, based on the crystal structure for VCP, CDC48A should have a rh of approximately 7 nm instead of the calculated 20.4 nm. Therefore, we hypothesized that the N domain, which is considered to be the domain responsible for most of the interactions of CDC48 (p97/VCP) with adaptor proteins like p47 (CITATION), Ufd-1, and ubiquitinated proteins (CITATION), associated with some of these proteins in the full-length CDC48A as well as in the monomeric CDC48AN-D1-YFP. Therefore, we deleted the N domain from CDC48A and measured diffusion times of the mutant CDC48ANdel-YFP protein. Indeed, the diffusion coefficient of CDC48ANdel-YFP in the cytoplasm (6.0 μm2/s) is significantly higher than that of CDC48A (3.5 μm2/s). This could be explained by the lack of the interactive N domain. Unlike CDC48A, CDC48ANdel was not predominantly found in the hexameric form on native PAGE (Fig. 1B), which might also explain the faster diffusion of this mutant. The diffusion coefficient of the CDC48AA1A2-YFP protein (6.2 μm2/s in the cytoplasm), the mutant which is reported to be severely delayed in hexamerization in vitro for p97/VCP (CITATION), was significantly higher than the diffusion coefficient of the CDC48A protein (3.5 μm2/s in the cytoplasm). Native PAGE showed that the CDC48AA1A2-YFP protein in cells is predominantly in the hexameric form, as well as CDC48A. Although the oligomerization of the CDC48A A1A2-YFP protein was not tested in the FRET-FLIM experiments, the FCS results suggest that fewer proteins associate with this mutant, resulting in faster diffusion of CDC48AA1A2-YFP. This implies that inhibition of ATP binding also inhibits complex formation with other proteins. Surprisingly, no significant difference in diffusion coefficient between CDC48A-, CDC48AA1A2-, and CDC48ANdel-YFP was measured in the nucleus (Table II). In general, the diffusion coefficient in the nucleus was the same as in the cytoplasm for all proteins, except for CDC48A-YFP. The diffusion coefficient of CDC48A is much slower in the cytoplasm, suggesting that in contrast with the situation in the nucleus the protein is bound to a larger or different complex. There is a discrepancy between the complex size estimated on native PAGE and the size calculated from the FCS analysis. An explanation might be that the CDC48A complex is associated with membranes or large molecules like the proteasome and therefore shows a very slow diffusion. For the native PAGE procedure, however, membranes are solubilized and connections of membranes with protein complexes can be lost. From these data we propose that in vivo membrane-located CDC48A is found in larger protein complexes rather than in hexameric configuration only, while the N domain could be responsible for the interactions that lead to these large complexes.
!~MM~! Plasmid pMON999 is a plant expression vector that contains the enhanced cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter, followed by a multiple cloning site and the terminator of the nopaline synthase gene (CITATION). This plasmid, containing the cDNA of CrFP, enhanced YFP, or a fusion construct of CDC48A (At3g09840) or CDC48C (At3g01610), C-terminally linked to CrFP or YFP, was used for transfection of protoplasts. Also, a mutant of CDC48A-CrFP and -YFP was constructed, the D2 deletion mutant (CDC48A-N-D1), missing the D2 domain from M448 to the end of the CDC48A sequence, by restriction with NcoI and subsequent ligation of the template. A second mutant of CDC48A-YFP was constructed, missing the N domain (amino acids 1–188). Using the QuikChange XL site-directed mutagenesis kit, mutations K254T and K527T were introduced in the Walker A motifs of the D1 domain and the D2 domain, respectively. A combination of the two mutations, in a fusion protein with either CrFP or YFP, resulted in the A1A2 mutant. All constructs were checked by restriction enzyme analysis and the size of the protein was determined by western blotting. All constructs were verified by sequencing. Protoplast isolation and transfection were performed as described before (CITATION). FRET-FLIM was measured 16 h after transfections. For FCS measurements a low amount of fluorescent molecules in the detection volume is essential; therefore, cells were measured 6 h after transfections. Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) mesophyll protoplasts were prepared and transfected according to a protocol described by CITATION with modifications, as described before (CITATION). Sixteen to 20 h after transfection, protoplasts were lysed in RIPA buffer (50 mm Tris, pH 7.5, 150 mm NaCl, 1 mm MgCl2, 1% Nonidet P-40, containing a protease inhibitor tablet [Roche]) for 15 min on ice. Extracts were centrifuged for 7 min at 13,000 rpm at 4°C, and soluble fractions were supplemented with SDS-PAGE loading buffer, denatured at 95°C for 5 min before loading on an 8% gel, next to a prestained marker. Gels were blotted on nitrocellulose. For native PAGE, the soluble fractions were supplemented with native-PAGE loading buffer and loaded on a native gel of 4% to 8% acrylamide. Gels were blotted on PVDF membrane. The marker part of the blot was stained with Coomassie immediately after blotting. Anti-YFP was generated by Isogen, according to standard procedure. The serum was purified on a YFP-protA column. As a marker for native PAGE, a mixture of thyroglobuline (669 kD), ferritine (440 kD), and serum albumin (132 and 66 kD) was used. For the in vitro trans-phosphorylation, 1 μg of SK1-KD was added to 1 μg of CDC48A in kinase buffer (CITATION) plus 3 mm cold ATP and 1 μL of [γ32-P]ATP in a total reaction of 30 μL. After incubation of 30 min at 30°C, sample buffer was added. The sample was heated for 5 min at 95°C and loaded on SDS-PAGE. After drying the gel, the radioactivity was detected with a PhosphorImager using the ImageQuant program (Molecular Dynamics). For MS analysis the in vitro phosphorylation was performed as described, without [γ32-P]ATP. The gel was not dried. The GST-CDC48A 125-kD bands were excised from the gel after staining with the Colloidal Coomassie staining kit (Invitrogen) and cut into 1-mm pieces. In-gel digestion was performed as described by CITATION. After destaining with water, Cys reduction (with 10 μL of 50 mm dithiothreitol in 50 mm NH4HCO3 for 1 h at 56°C), and alkylation (with 10 μL of 100 mm iodacetamide in 50 mm NH4HCO3 for 1 h at room temperature in the dark), the gel pieces were washed three times with 100 μL of 50 mm NH4HCO3 and dried in a vacuum centrifuge. For proteolytic digestion, the gel was treated overnight with 1 μL (in 10 μL of 50 mm NH4HCO3) trypsin (sequencing grade; Boehringer Mannheim). Finally, peptides were extracted from the gel pieces using 15 to 20 μL of 5% trifluoroacetic acid in water, followed by sonication for 1 min. A second gel extraction was done using 10 to 15 μL CH3CN/trifluoroacetic acid/water (25/1/84, v/v/v) mixture and sonication for 1 min. Extracted peptides were subjected to LC-MS/MS analysis. Each run with all spectra obtained was analyzed with Bioworks 3.2 (Thermo Electron). For identification of the peptides, the following proteins were added to a database; Arabidopsis CDC48A (P54609), the GST, trypsin (bovine, P00760), trypsin (porcin, P00761), keratin K2C1 (human, P04264), and keratin K1CI (human, P35527). The searches were done allowing Met oxidation and phosphorylation of Ser, Thr, and Tyr. The peptide identifications obtained were analyzed with Bioworks 3.2 with the following filter criteria: ΔCn > 0.08, Xcorr >2 for charge state 1+, Xcorr > 1.5 for charge state 2+, and Xcorr >3.3 for charge state 3+ as described previously (CITATION). FRET takes place when two proteins coupled to appropriate fluorophores are in close distance from each other. FRET measurement is very sensitive since the rate of energy transfer is inversely proportional to the donor-acceptor distance to the power of 6 (CITATION). FRET can reveal distances between fluorophores that are typically in the range of 2 to 7 nm. FLIM is one method to measure FRET by estimating the reduction of CFP-donor lifetime in case of interaction with a YFP-acceptor molecule. FLIM was performed on a Bio-Rad Radiance 2100 MP system in combination with a Nikon TE 300 inverted microscope, as described by CITATION. From the fluorescence intensity image, the fluorescence lifetime is determined for each pixel. The full fluorescence decay per pixel was calculated for the donor molecule using a double exponential decay model. The fluorescence lifetime (τ value) can then be presented as a false-color image. First, the fluorescence lifetime of only the donor molecule was determined by analyzing all the measured pixels in the PM. The resulting average lifetime was subsequently used in the analysis where all decays were fit using two exponentials, with one lifetime fixed to the value for τ of the donor. This two-exponent model assumes two populations of donors: one that does not have an acceptor nearby and therefore has the unquenched lifetime τD, and one that has an acceptor near enough for energy transfer to occur and therefore has a reduced lifetime τDA. Fluorescence lifetime decays were fitted per pixel with a binning factor of 1. A double exponential decay model was used, with the lifetime of one component fixed to the value found for the unquenched lifetime of the donor. Fits were judged by the χr2 values (χr2 ≤ 1.1). The amount of photon counts in the peak channel was normally around 1,000. At least 15 cells were measured for each combination and location in two to five independent experiments. After measurements the distribution histograms of five representative cells were combined and plotted for each combination of proteins. Average lifetime per combination was determined and sds calculated. The distance between donor and acceptor were calculated via the following:(1)(2)where E is the transfer efficiency, R is the actual distance, and R0 is the Förster radius, indicating the distance where one observes 50% FRET efficiency. The R0 for the FRET pair CrFP and YFP was determined to be 4.9 nm, based on the excitation and emission spectra of the in vitro-produced proteins (J.W. Borst, unpublished data). FCS makes use of a focused laser beam continuously illuminating a sample. Only the fluorescence from particles excited in a small observation volume is detected. The observation volume is defined by the focused laser beam in the x and y direction, and by the pinhole in the z direction, which makes monitoring of a subfemtoliter volume possible (CITATION). The entrance of a fluorophore into this volume gives rise to a burst of detected photons. The duration of this burst reflects the time the particle needs to diffuse through the observation volume, while the amplitude represents the molecular brightness. The intensity trace is correlated with itself at a later time point to yield the autocorrelation curve G(τ), from which the diffusion coefficient D and the average number of particles in the observation volume N can be obtained. FCS measurements were performed on a Confocor 2-LSM 510 combination setup (Carl Zeiss). The 514-nm argon laser line was used to excite YFP (CITATION). The system was calibrated with Rhodamine 6 Green solution (10 nm) and aligned using a rhodamine film. The FCS observation volume was positioned in the cytoplasm adjacent to the PM, to avoid measuring in chloroplasts. After a prebleach of 1 s with high (70% approximately 0.4 mW) laser power, three measurements of 20 s each were performed with low laser power (approximately 4 μW). FCS data were analyzed using FCS Data Processor 1.4 (CITATION). Since measurements were performed in the cytoplasm, we fit the data with a model assuming free diffusion of protein and protein complexes in three dimensions, although interaction with the PM in some cases cannot be ruled out. An additional triplet-state term was used to describe the fast photophysics of YFP (e.g. conversion to a dark state, blinking).(3) Here, G(τ) is the autocorrelation function, N is the number of molecules in the detection volume, τdif is the diffusion time of the molecules, Ftrip is the fraction of molecules in the triplet state, and Ttrip is the triplet-state relaxation time. ωxy and ωz are the equatorial radius and axial radius of the Gaussian-shaped observation volume, respectively. The ratio ωz/ωxy is also called the structural parameter and was found to be between 5 and 10 in our measurements. The structural parameter was fixed to the value obtained with the Rhodamine 6 Green solution. The diffusion constants (D) were calculated from the τdif value for each curve and listed in a table for the PM and the nucleus. ses on the D value were calculated, and a two-sample t test with 95% significance was performed to compare the mean D value of CDC48A with the CDC48AA1A2, CDC48ANdel, and CDC48AN-D1 mutants. The time a molecule on average spends in the observation volume τdif is linked to the translational diffusion coefficient D by Equation 4.(4) The diffusion coefficient of a spherical particle is inversely proportional to the hydrodynamic radius rh according to the Stokes-Einstein relation (CITATION):(5)in which k is the Boltzmann constant, T is the absolute temperature, and η is the viscosity of the solution. Assuming a globular particle, the molecular mass M is proportional to the hydrodynamic radius to the power of 3:(6)where ρ is the mean density of the molecule and NA is Avogadro's number. Combination of Equations 4, 5, and 6 yields Equation 7, which shows that the diffusion constant scales only to the cubic root of the molecular mass and is independent of the observation volume.(7) Hence, the larger the molecule is, the lower the diffusion constant. To distinguish particles of different size with FCS, the diffusion times have to differ at least by a factor of 1.6, which corresponds to a 4-fold mass difference (CITATION). Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers P54609 or At3g09840 (CDC48A) and Q9SS94 or At3g01610 (CDC48C). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Lifetime distributions of CDC48A. Supplemental Figure S2. Lifetime distributions of CDC48C. Supplemental Figure S3. Lifetime distributions of CDC48ANdel.
