!~ABS~! Plant methyl-DNA-binding proteins (MBDs), discovered by sequence homology to their animal counterparts, have not been well characterized at the physiological and functional levels. In order better to characterize the Arabidopsis AtMBD7 protein, unique in bearing three MBD domains, we used a yeast two-hybrid system to identify its partners. One of the interacting proteins we cloned is the Arabidopsis arginine methyltransferase 11 (AtPRMT11). Glutathione S-transferase pull-down and co-immunoprecipitation assays confirmed that the two proteins interact with each other and can be co-isolated. Using GFP fluorescence, we show that both AtMBD7 and AtPRMT11 are present in the nucleus. Further analyses revealed that AtPRMT11 acts as an arginine methyltransferase active on both histones and proteins of cellular extracts. The analysis of a T-DNA mutant line lacking AtPRMT11 mRNA revealed reduced levels of proteins with asymmetrically dimethylated arginines, suggesting that AtPRMT11, which is highly similar to mammalian PRMT1, is indeed a type I arginine methyltransferase. Further, AtMBD7 is a substrate for AtPRMT11, which post-translationally modifies the portion of the protein-containing C-terminal methylated DNA-binding domain. These results suggest the existence of a link between DNA methylation and arginine methylation.
!~RES~! To identify genes encoding proteins specifically interacting with AtMBD7, we carried out a yeast two-hybrid screening of an Arabidopsis cDNA library from inflorescences obtained from ABRC (see Experimental procedures). A total of 3 × 106 clones were tested using the AtMBD7 cDNA fused to the GAL4-binding domain as bait (pBD-AtMBD7). Approximately 30 independent cDNA clones exhibited HIS3 ADE2 gene activation. A further screening step consisting of activation of the β-galactosidase reporter gene reduced the number of positive clones by approximately one-third. Several positive clones, isolated in independent transformations, carried the same cDNA coding for a 309-amino-acid peptide with homology to a putative Arabidopsis arginine methyltransferase (AtPRMT11, At4g29510). As the clones appeared to be incomplete, the full-length cDNA of 1173 nucleotides corresponding to AtPRMT11 in ChromDB (http://www.chromdb.org) was cloned by PCR (see Experimental procedures). To determine whether full-length AtPRMT11 and AtMBD7 can interact, we generated a pAD-AtPRMT11 and co-transformed it and the pBD-AtMBD7 into yeast cells. Only yeast cells expressing pAD-AtPRMT11 and pBD-AtMBD7 constructs were able to grow on -Ade-His plates and to express β-galactosidase activity (Figure 1a), demonstrating that AtPRMT11 and AtMBD7 form a complex in yeast two-hybrid interaction analysis. [[FIGURE]] The interaction between AtMBD7 and AtPRMT11 arginine methyltransferase was confirmed using a glutathione S-transferase (GST) pull-down assay. Recombinant GST–PRMT11 or GST protein alone were separately incubated with in vitro transcribed and translated [35S]-methionine-labelled AtMBD7 protein. GST–PRMT11, but not GST alone, was able to bind AtMBD7 (Figure 1b). Quantification of the autoradiographic signal indicated that about 35% of the input was bound (Figure 1b). To test whether AtMBD7 and AtPRMT11 interact in plant cells, we first examined their co-localization. Arabidopsis protoplasts co-expressing cyan fluorescent protein (CFP)-tagged MBD7 and yellow fluorescent protein (YFP)-tagged PRMT11 were analysed by confocal microscopy. As already shown (CITATION), AtMBD7 has a strong nuclear expression with particularly bright spots corresponding to chromocentres (Figure 2a,d). AtPRMT11 also has a prevalent nuclear localization, although some fluorescence could be observed in the cytoplasm (Figure 2b,e). AtPRMT11 shows a homogeneous distribution inside the nucleus and, like AtMBD7, is excluded from the nucleolus. Interestingly, a small spot inside the nucleolus is often identifiable for both proteins (Figure 2d,e). AtMBD7 and AtPRMT11 appear to occupy common subcellular locations, at least in part. [[FIGURE]] Co-immunoprecipitation experiments were carried out to verify the in vivo interaction between AtMBD7 and AtPRMT11. Arabidopsis protoplasts were transiently transfected with Flag-tagged MBD7 and HA-tagged PRMT11. The immunoprecipitation of Flag-MBD7 protein induced the co-precipitation of HA-PRMT11 protein, as revealed by Western blot assay performed with anti-HA antibody (Figure 1c). As AtMBD7 contains three MBD domains, we tested each MBD domain’s capability of interacting with AtPRMT11. Three constructs, each containing an MBD motif fused to the GAL4-binding domain (pBD-MBD7-A, -B, -C), were tested in the yeast two-hybrid screening (Figure 3). Figure S1 shows that the three constructs are expressed in yeast. Using lacZ as reporter gene, we demonstrated that AtPRMT11 binds only the carboxy-terminus of the AtMBD7 protein-containing domain III (Figure 4). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Structural analysis of the AtPRMT11 sequence revealed several important features. The gene comprises an ORF coding for a protein of 390 aa with a predicted molecular mass of 43.29 kDa. AtPRMT11 shares very high similarity with another member of the Arabidopsis PRMT family (AtPRMT12) and with the human proteins PRMT1 and PRMT8. The homology is less significant for other known human or plant PRMTs (Figure 5a). Based on these homologies, the Arabidopsis protein can also be easily divided, as can the human proteins, into three domains: S-adenosyl-methionine (AdoMet)-binding domain, a dimerization arm and a β-barrel domain, which should contain the active site (CITATION; CITATION). All the protein motifs conserved in AdoMet-dependent methyltransferases (CITATION) can be found in AtPRMT11 (Motifs I–III; Figure 5b) with the exception of the Post I domain. Two other regions shared by all PRMTs can be found in the AtPRMT11 protein (Figure 5b): the so-called ‘double-E loop’ and the ‘THW loop’, the former containing two invariant glutamate residues shown by crystallographic studies to form the active-site pocket (CITATION; CITATION). These data strongly suggest that AtPRMT11 protein is an arginine methyltransferase. [[FIGURE]] To verify the catalytic activity of AtPRMT11, we performed in vitro methylation assays with the purified recombinant GST–PRMT11. As substrates, we used proteins extracted from Arabidopsis cell cultures treated with adenosine 2′-3′-dialdehyde (Adox), a specific inhibitor of arginine methylation that induces accumulation of unmethylated arginines (CITATION). First, we confirmed that the Adox treatment effectively reduces the level of methylated proteins (Figure S2). Subsequently, we showed that AtPRMT11, in the presence of S-adenosyl-l-[14C] methionine (14C-AdoMet) as methyl donor, is able to methylate the hypomethylated substrates in lysates from Adox treated plant cells (Figure 6a, lane 1). No radioactive incorporation was observed with proteins derived from untreated cells (Figure 6a, lane 2). The latter evidence is not surprising as, in other systems, arginine methylation is considered mainly a permanent mark. Although some endogenous PRMT activity is detectable in the cell extracts incubated with the GST alone (Figure 6a, lane 3), the addition of the recombinant AtPRMT11 clearly increases the quantity of the labelled bands and/or their intensity, indicating that AtPRMT11 is able to methylate protein residues. These residues must be arginines because they were available only after blocking arginine methyltransferase activity with the specific inhibitor (Adox). The in vitro methylation assay with the recombinant AtPRMT11 was also performed with nuclear protein extracts from untreated and Adox-treated cells. The higher level of 14C-methyl incorporation, and the similarity with the protein pattern obtained with the cellular extract, suggest that AtPRMT11 substrates are mainly nuclear protein (data not shown). The in vitro methylation assay also revealed that AtPRMT11, like the animal PRMT1, is able to methylate histones. The GST–tagged protein, incubated with purified calf thymus histones and 14C-AdoMet, predominantly methylates histone H4 and, to a lesser extent, histones H3 and H2A (Figure 6b). A similar methylation pattern was obtained with AtPRMT11 immunoprecipitated from Flag-tagged PRMT11-transfected protoplasts (Figure S3). [[FIGURE]] The in vitro-methylated histones and proteins were also analysed by Western blot with ASYM24 and SYM11 antibodies, which specifically recognize, respectively, asymmetrically dimethylated arginine (ADMA) and symmetrically dimethylated arginine (SDMA) residues, to determine whether AtPRMT11 is a type I or II methyltransferase. Unfortunately, methylated histones were undetectable, probably due to the specificity of antibodies used (arginine–glycine repeats; CITATION), which, consequently, recognize only a sub-set of methylated proteins. However, it is possible that the degree of methylation generated by AtPRMT11 activity on Adox-treated cell extracts was too low to be detected by non-radioactive methods. We therefore investigated the effect of the absence of AtPRMT11 activity on the level of symmetrically or asymmetrically methylated arginine in proteins of mutant Arabidopsis plants. A PRMT11 T-DNA insertional mutant (line SALK_023681; CITATION) obtained from NASC was employed in this study. T3 and T4 plants were used for DNA, RNA and protein extraction: Southern blot analysis revealed that the T-DNA was exclusively inserted into the AtPRMT11 gene (data not shown), while genomic PCR showed that all plants were homozygous for the mutation (data not shown). Inactivation of the target gene was confirmed by semi-quantitative RT–PCR experiments using primers specific for AtPRMT11 and for β-tubulin as control. The RT–PCR analysis revealed that all mutant plants showed the total absence of AtPRMT11 mRNA (Figure 7a, lanes 4–6), while control plants (untransformed Columbia and SALK_024712; see Experimental procedures) did not show any variation in mRNA level (Figure 7a, lanes 1–3). To rule out that the inactivation of AtPRMT11 was accompanied by upregulation of other members of the AtPRMT gene family, semi-quantitative RT–PCR experiments were performed using primers specific for all the other AtPRMT sequences available. This analysis revealed that their expression level did not vary among mutant plants (data not shown). The protein methylation analysis was first performed with ADMA antiserum (ASYM24). Probably due to the RG-rich specificity of the antibodies used, only a limited number of proteins were recognized in the Western blot. Minor additional bands were visible only after long exposures, but this caused overexposure of the main bands and impeded the quantitative analysis. Therefore we decided to focus our attention on the main bands observed. In control plants, two major ADMA-containing proteins were recognized by ASYM24 with apparent molecular weights of around 50 and 25 kDa (Figure 7b, left panel, lanes 1–3). On the other hand, in the AtPRMT11 mutant the methylation level of the 50-kDa protein was markedly reduced (Figure 7b, left panel, lanes 4–6) compared with the 25-kDa band, which appeared to remain constant. Subsequently, we challenged the same blot with the SDMA antiserum (SYM11). This antibody detected one major band at around 65 kDa in all the extracts. Interestingly, the SYM11 antibody strongly detected a 50-kDa band in mutant extracts, which was absent in control plants and resembled the size of the protein for which the arginine asymmetrical methylation level appeared reduced in the previous experiment. To quantify these variations, the Western blot experiments with ASYM24 and SYM11 antibodies were performed on six AtPRMT11 T4 mutant plants and three control plants (SALK_024712). The densitometric analysis of the relevant bands (Figure 7c) indicated that, in the AtPRMT11 mutant, the ADMA level of the 50-kDa band was reduced by 75%, while the SDMA level increased three times. [[FIGURE]] These results, taken together, indicate that AtPRMT11 acts as a type I PRMT, catalysing the formation of ADMA residues, and suggest that this enzyme is specific for a sub-set of arginine methylatable proteins. T-DNA mutant plants were also analysed at the phenotype level (Figure 8). Plants exhibited altered leaf morphology and development (curled leaves) and multiple rosettes with an increased number of leaves. This phenotype was accompanied by delayed flowering (32–35 weeks) as compared with control plants (wt, 10–12 weeks). The inflorescence morphology was also modified, with several sterile flowers. The fertility of plants appeared greatly reduced, with very low seed production when self-pollinated. [[FIGURE]] To test whether AtMBD7 is capable of interacting with arginine methyltransferases, glutathione–sepharose containing GST alone, GST–MBD7 or GST–MBD7-C were incubated with Arabidopsis nuclear extracts. Recovered complexes were analysed for arginine methylation activity using core histones as substrate and 14C-AdoMet as methyl donor. Recombinant GST–MBD7 and GST–MBD7-C, but not GST protein alone, precipitated the enzymatic activity able to methylate H4, H3 and H2A histones in vitro, the same pattern as obtained with the purified recombinant AtPRMT11 (Figure 9). [[FIGURE]] The direct interaction of AtMBD7 with AtPRMT11 and the presence of canonical sites for arginine methylation in this MBD protein (Figure 3) suggest that AtMBD7 could be a substrate for AtPRMT11 activity. To determine whether this is the case, we used recombinant full-length GST–MBD7, as well as GST–MBD7-A, -B and -C as substrates in methylation reactions with recombinant GST–PRMT11. The Escherichia coli-purified full-length AtMBD7 proved unsuitable for this assay due to its instability. The assay revealed that AtPRMT11 specifically methylates only the portion comprising domain II (Figure 10), which is consistent with the fact that it contains the higher number of methylatable RG or RXR sites, as compared with the other portions (Figure 3). No significant labelling was detected on the other two protein portions, nor on GST alone (Figure 10). We investigated whether the Adox treatment affects the sub-cellular localization of AtMBD7. GFP–tagged MBD7 expressed in protoplasts from Adox treated cells did not show any alteration in sub-nuclear localization (data not shown) in comparison with control protoplasts, as previously described in Figure 2, suggesting that arginine methylation is not the main determinant for AtMBD7 localization. As the methylation level of the GFP–AtMBD7 could not be assessed, we cannot rule out that the tagged protein might be methylated to some degree even if translated in the presence of the arginine methylation inhibitor. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Columbia) mutants SALK_023681 (inserted in AtPRMT11) and SALK_024712 (T-DNA supposedly inserted in AtPRMT11 according to the SIGnAL Arabidopsis Mapping Tool, http://signal.salk.edu, is actually inserted in a different location therefore this line was used as a negative control) (CITATION) were obtained from The European Arabidopsis Stock Centre (NASC) and grown in a growth chamber (8 h light, 16 h darkness at 22°C) after a 2–4-day stratification period, under a light intensity of 150 μE m−2 sec−1. The Arabidopsis cell line (ecotype Lansdberg) was used as a source of protoplasts for protein extraction and transient expression studies. It was maintained in MS medium (ICN) pH 5.7, supplemented with 30 g l−1 sucrose, 0.5 mg l−1 NAA and 0.05 mg l−1 kinetin, and was sub-cultured weekly by transferring 1 ml packed cell volume to 25 ml fresh medium. Protoplasts were isolated from 5-day-old Arabidopsis cell-suspension cultures as described previously (CITATION) and transient transformation was carried out by electroporation (CITATION), except that protoplasts were collected and analysed 20–24 h after electroporation. For inhibition of methylation and preparation of hypomethylated cell extracts, at the moment of sub-culturing the Landsberg cell-culture medium was supplemented with 30 μm periodate-oxidized adenosine (adenosine-2′-3′-dialdehyde, Sigma A7154, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com) and cells were cultured for an additional 48 h before harvesting. Cells were pelleted to eliminate the growth medium and the pellet after two washes in cold lysis buffer [20 mm HEPES pH 7.5, 150 mm NaCl, 0.5% NP-40, 20% glycerol, 1 mm EDTA, 1 mm PMSF, protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche Applied Sciences, http://www.roche-applied-science.com), one tablet for 10 ml lysis buffer] was resuspended in cold lysis buffer (1 ml buffer 1 g−1 FW cells), disrupted by sonication and cleared by centrifugation for 15 min at 15 000 g at 4°C. Nuclear cell extract was prepared as described (CITATION). Tissue cell extracts were obtained by grinding the frozen tissues in a mortar with liquid nitrogen and homogenizing them in cold lysis buffer. The homogenate was successively cleared by centrifugation as described above. For Western analysis, protein extracts were electrophoresed on a 10% SDS–polyacrylamide gel, transferred onto a nylon membrane (Hybond-C extra, Amersham Pharmacia Biotech, http://www.amersham.com) and detected by ECL according to the manufacturer’s recommendations (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech). For arginine methylation detection, anti-dimethyl-arginine-asymmetric ASYM24 and symmetric SYM11 (Upstate) antibodies were used. For loading control, the membranes were stripped and rechallenged with a polyclonal antibody against the Rubisco enzyme. Densitometric analysis of the films was performed with the scion.image program. The coding sequences for AtMBD7 and AtPRMT11 (presented in the ChromDB Plant Chromatin Database, http://www.chromdb.org) were amplified by RT–PCR from poly(A)+ RNA isolated from Arabidopsis leaves and cloned into the pGEM-TEasy vector (Promega, http://www.promega.com) as described previously for the other AtMBDs (CITATION). AGCTCTTGTTAACCGTAAAC and ATGACTAAGAA CAGTAACCACG oligonucleotides were utilized for the reverse transcriptions and, together with the CTCGGGCTTTTGGGTTAGAC and CTCTATCTCCTCAATCTTCCC oligonucleotides, for the PCR reactions of AtMBD7 and AtPRMT11, respectively. A nested PCR reaction was performed for AtMBD7 with AGCGATGCAGACGAGATCCT and TCGGTTAAGAGCGGTCTTCG as upper and lower primers, respectively. The clones were sequenced by CRIBI Biotechnology Centre, University of Padova, Italy. The ‘bait’ plasmid for the two-hybrid screening was generated by inserting the 0.9-kbp EcoRI fragment from the pGEM-TEasy construct (see above) containing the AtMBD7 coding sequence, into the EcoRI site of the pBD-GAL4 Cam vector (Stratagene, http://www.stratagene.com). To maintain the frame of the GAL4-binding domain in the AtMBD7-coding sequence, the EcoRI recessive ends of both the insert and the vector were filled by Klenow polymerase activity, in the presence of dNTPs, before ligation. The maintenance of the frame was controlled by sequencing the resulting plasmid. A detailed description of all the other constructs used in this paper is presented in Appendix S1. The yeast two-hybrid interaction screen employed a two-hybrid library provided by the ABRC Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC) catalogue no. CD4-30, constructed in Stratagene’s HybriZap vector with mRNA isolated from Arabidopsis inflorescence meristems, floral meristems and floral buds up to about stage 8 or 9. The library consisted of 0.5 × 106 primary trasformants. The yeast strain AH109 (CITATION) was used for library screening. A small-scale yeast transformation protocol was used to verify that the bait pBD–AtMBD7 plasmid or the library alone was not able autonomously to activate the reporter genes of the yeast strain AH109. For screening, yeast strain AH109 was transformed by the lithium acetate method in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions (Clontech, http://www.clontech.com). The yeast strain was plated onto high-stringency synthetic medium lacking adenine, histidine, leucine and tryptophan. Several independent experiments were performed with variable transformation efficiency ranging from 0.3 to 1.6 × 106 transformants μg−1 DNA. The putative positive cDNA clones were tested for specificity by co-transformation into AH109, either alone or in combination with the empty pBD-GAL4 vector. For qualitative blue/white β-galactosidase assay, the yeast strain Y190 was used in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions (Clontech). The cDNA inserts from positive clones were sequenced by CRIBI (University of Padova). pGEX-MBD7 and pGEX-PRMT11 were transformed in E. coli BL21 bacterial cells and single colonies were inoculated in TB medium with salts and grown at 37°C overnight. The following day the cultures were diluted to approximately OD600 of 0.1 and grown at 30°C until they reached OD600 0.6–0.8. 1 mm isopropyl β-d-1-thiogalactopyranoside was added to induce protein expression, and the cultures were grown further at 30°C for an additional 4 h. Bacteria were then pelleted for protein purification. The pellets were dissolved in lysis buffer (50 mm Tris–HCl pH 8.0; 250 mm NaCl; 5% glycerol; 5 mm EDTA; 2 mm DTT; 1 mm PMSF and protease inhibitors cocktail) and, after sonication and centrifugation, the supernatant was incubated with glutathione–agarose beads for 1 h at 4°C. After extensive washing, proteins fused to beads were resuspended in storage buffer (50 mm PBS; 50 mm EDTA; 10% glycerol; 0.01% NaN3). Protein concentration and quality were determined by SDS–PAGE and Coomassie staining using different concentrations of BSA as standard. The AtMBD7 gene downstream of the T7 promoter in the pGEM-TEasy vector was subjected to in vitro transcription-coupled translation (IVT) in the presence of [35S]-Met using the Promega reticulocyte lysate system, in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions. Pull-down experiments were performed as described (CITATION), using bacterially expressed GST (as negative control) and GST–PRMT11 protein immobilized to glutathione-agarose beads, which were incubated at 4°C with IVT [35S]-labelled proteins in NETN buffer (20 mm Tris–HCl pH 7.5; 100 mm NaCl; 1 mm EDTA pH 8.0; 0.5% Nonidet P-40; 1 mm DTT; 1 mm PMSF). After binding, beads were washed extensively prior to loading on 10 or 12% SDS–polyacrylamide gel. The gels were stained with Coomassie Brilliant Blue R, fixed and dried prior to autoradiography using a Phosphoimager (B4312 Cyclone, Packard; http://las.perkinelmer.com). Quantification of the bound proteins was performed using optiquant ver. 4 software (Packard Instruments). To precipitate AtPRMT activity, immobilized GST, GST–MBD7 and GST–MBD7-A were incubated with 250 μg nuclear extract under the conditions described above. Crude total lysates were obtained from protoplasts (about 7.5 × 106 protoplasts for each assay) transformed with different plasmids combinations of Flag-tagged and HA-tagged protein plasmids, collected 24 h post-transformation and lysed in NHEN buffer (20 mm HEPES pH 7.5; 150 mm NaCl; 0.5% Nonidet P-40; 20% glycerol; 1 mm EDTA; 1 mm PMSF and protease inhibitors cocktail). After 1 h clearing by incubation with Protein G PLUS-Agarose beads (Santa Cruz Biotechnology, http://www.scbt.com), approximately 1–1.5 mg crude extract was used for immunoprecipitation overnight (4°C in a rotating wheel) with Anti-Flag M2-Agarose from Mouse (Sigma). After extensive washing in NHEN buffer, beads were resuspended in SDS loading buffer and loaded on 10 or 12% SDS–polyacrylamide gel. Proteins were transferred to nitrocellulose membranes and Western blotting performed with specific antibodies αHA and αFlag (Santa Cruz Biotechnology) to reveal co-immunoprecipitation. Images for AtMBD7 and AtPRMT11 localization were obtained with a Leica TCS-SL laser scanning confocal microscope equipped with Ar/He laser diodes. Fluorescence signals were detected at 433 excitation, 475 nm emission wavelengths (for CFP detection) and 513 excitation, 527 nm emission (for YFP detection). Digitized images were processed using photoshop (Adobe, http://www.adobe.com). 500 ng of purified GST–PRMT11 (20–40 μl protein G-Sepharose beads) or GST beads alone were incubated for 1 h at 37°C in a reaction mixture containing MTS buffer (20 mm Tris pH 7.5, 200 mm NaCl, 0.4 mm EDTA), 0.5 μCi S-adenosyl-l-[methyl-14C] methionine (Amersham Biosciences, specific activity 2.16 GBq mmol−1) and, as substrates, either 10 μg calf thymus histones (Sigma H4255), 30 μg total cell extract from hypomethylated cells or 5 μg purified GST–MBD7 domains. Methylation reactions were stopped by adding SDS–PAGE sample buffer and resolved on 12 or 15% polyacrylamide gel. After electrophoresis, gels were treated as described for GST pull-down. Total leaf RNA was isolated from controls (wild-type and SALK_024712) and AtPRMT11 mutant plants, and cDNAs were prepared as described by CITATION. Semi-quantitative RT–PCR was performed as described by CITATION. Briefly, the samples derived from mutants and wild-type plants were amplified using primers corresponding to β-tubulin (CITATION) as a constitutively expressed gene. Once quantified by agarose gel analysis and normalized, the cDNAs were amplified using primers corresponding to all AtPRMTs (PRMT11forw ATGACTAAGAACAGTAACCACG; PRMT11rev CTCTATCTCCTCAATCTTCCC; PRMT12forw AAATGACTAGTACGGAGAACA, PRMT12 rev CGCATCTTATAGAAGTGGGT; PRMT13forw TAGGATCCATGGAGGTATCTTCTG, PRMT14forw TAGTCGACATGGAGATTCCTTCTC, PRMT13/14rev AATGGGTTTCCAGCA ATCAG; PRMT15forw GCGTTGAGACTGATTTCTCCA, PRMT15rev TGTCCACCAAGGCT TTCTCAA; PRMT16forw ATGTCGCCTCTGTCTTCTCTT and PRMT16 rev AGCTCTCCATT ACTTTCTGGC) with a modified step-down protocol (CITATION). In order to perform a semi-quantitative comparison, an aliquot of each reaction was collected after 20 cycles before reaching saturation and then run on agarose gels along with the 30 cycle-amplified samples.
