!~ABS~! Plants have large families of proteins sharing a conserved eight-cysteine-motif (8CM) domain. The biological functions of these proteins are largely unknown. EARLI1 is a cold responsive Arabidopsis gene that encodes a hybrid proline-rich protein (HyPRP) with a three-domain architecture: a putative signal peptide at the N-terminus, a proline-rich domain (PRD) in the middle, and an 8CM domain at the C-terminus. We report here that yeast cells expressing different EARLI1 genes had significantly higher rates of freezing survival than empty-vector transformed controls. Arabidopsis plants with knocked down EARLI1 genes had an increased tendency for freezing-induced cellular damage. EARLI1-GFP fluorescence in transgenic plants and immunoblot analyses using protoplasts suggested cell wall localization for EARLI1 proteins. Immunoblot analyses showed that EARLI1 proteins form higher order complexes in plants, and that the PRD is a soluble and the 8CM an insoluble protein domain. We propose that EARLI1 proteins have a bimodular architecture in which the PRD may interact with the cell wall and the 8CM domain with the plasma membrane to protect the cells during freezing stress.
!~RES~!  EARLI1 gene expression is controlled by a multitude of environmental cues (Richards and Gardner CITATION; Wilkosz and Schläppi CITATION; Bubier and Schläppi CITATION). Among those signals, cold was previously shown to highly upregulate and then persistently maintain the steady-state transcript levels of EARLI1 mRNA (Wilkosz and Schläppi CITATION; Bubier and Schläppi CITATION). It was previously shown that when stressed by freezing temperatures, non-acclimated plant lines overexpressing EARLI1 from the strong and constitutive cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter leaked fewer electrolytes compared to the wild-type plants, suggesting that the gene may play a role in protecting plant cells by stabilizing cell membrane structures (Bubier and Schläppi CITATION). To further investigate the function of EARLI1, a plant line in which EARLI1 expression was knocked-down by the RNA interference (RNAi) mechanism was analyzed. The RNAi construct was designed to target the eight-cysteine-motif (8CM) region of EARLI1 with strong similarity to the other three closely related EARLI1-LIKE genes, which might have affected their expression levels as well. To confirm this, transcript levels in the RNAi and wild-type lines were compared by RNA gel blot analysis. As shown in Fig. 2, transcript levels of At4g12470, EARLI1 (At4g12480), At4g12490 and At4g12500 were all lower in cold-acclimated RNAi knockdown than in wild-type plants, although all genes, most visibly At4g12470, were still cold inducible in the knockdown plants. However, cold-acclimated RNAi plants had a tendency to leak more electrolytes at freezing temperatures than wild-type plants, suggesting that their cold acclimation response was at least partially affected by the downregulation of EARLI1 genes (Fig. 3). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  To determine the potential contribution of individual EARLI1 genes in protecting cells against freezing damage, At4g12470, EARLI1, At4g12490, and At4g12500 were individually expressed in the budding yeast S. cerevisiae, and survival of cells was tested after a 24-h freezing period. Compared to yeast cells containing only empty pESC-URA plasmids, cells harboring either EARLI1, At4g12490, or At4g12500 had a statistically significant (P < 0.05) increase in survival rates after a 24-h freezing period (Fig. 4). While not significant, yeast cells containing At4g12470 also had a tendency to improve freezing survival rates. These data indicated that EARLI1 and at least two of its paralogs protect heterologous yeast cells against freezing death. [[FIGURE]]  To determine whether the myc-tagged EARLI1 and myc-tagged EARLI1-LIKE recombinant proteins were expressed in S. cerevisiae, immunoblot analyses using anti-myc antibodies and anti-EARLI1 antiserum were done. As shown in Fig. 5a, each recombinant protein was detectable by anti-myc antiserum, indicating that the proteins were produced at various levels in the yeast cells subjected to freezing stress. When the same protein fractions were incubated with anti-EARLI1 antiserum, EARLI1 and At4g12470, but not At4g12490 or At4g12500, were recognized by the antiserum (Fig. 5b). This suggested that the polyclonal anti-EARLI1 antibodies crossreacted with the more closely related paralog At4g12470, but not with At4g12490 and At4g12500, which are more closely related to each other than to EARLI1 or At4g12470 (Fig. 1). [[FIGURE]]  To begin characterizing native EARLI1 proteins, polyclonal anti-EARLI1 antibodies were used to analyze proteins isolated from Arabidopsis plants. Anti-EARLI1 antiserum recognized a single band when proteins from cold-acclimated wild type or EARLI1 overexpressing plants were analyzed by SDS-PAGE using loading buffer with the reducing agent β-mercaptoethanol (β-ME) (Fig. 6a). However, when the reducing agent was omitted from the loading buffer, both apparent monomers and higher order complexes were recognized by the anti-EARLI1 antiserum in proteins from cold-acclimated wild-type or EARLI1 overexpressing plants, but not in proteins from RNAi plants (Fig. 6b). Thus, the abundance of the monomers and higher order protein complexes recognized by anti-EARLI1 antiserum was depended on the genetic background and temperature treatment of different Arabidopsis lines, and correlated well with RNA transcript levels in those lines (Fig. 2). As shown in Fig. 6c, higher molecular weight bands were still detectable in proteins from cold acclimated plants probed with anti-EARLI1 antiserum that was affinity-purified using EARLI1 monomers cut out from SDS-PAGE gels (see Materials and methods). A protein band of approximately twice the size of an EARLI1 monomer was the most abundant band seen in immunoblots probed with the affinity-purified antiserum. This suggested that EARLI1 in Arabidopsis possibly interacts with itself and/or other proteins such as At4g12470 to form larger protein complexes. [[FIGURE]]  Because it was reported that green tissues such as leaves and petioles are more competent to cold acclimate than roots (Chen et al. CITATION), the tissue-specific expression profile of EARLI1 was determined. There was indeed a higher amount of EARLI1 protein in green tissues than in roots (Fig. 6d). This indicated that EARLI1 is expressed ubiquitously, but preferentially in cold-acclimation competent tissues. To further study the EARLI1 protein at the molecular level, a His-tagged EARLI1 fusion protein was expressed in E. coli. A majority of the recombinant EARLI1 protein was always found in insoluble fractions, presumably as a result of sequestration into inclusion bodies (data not shown). Considering that formation of inclusion bodies might result from the absence of proper disulfide bond formation of proteins in the E. coli cytoplasm, different strategies were used to either direct the recombinant protein to the periplasmic region, or to promote the formation of disulfide bonds in the cytoplasm by using an E. coli strain with a more oxidizing cytoplasmic environment. However, neither of these strategies helped to improve the solubility of EARLI1 (data not shown), suggesting that different redox environments did not affect its solubility. Together with the hydropathy profile of EARLI1, these experimental results suggested that EARLI1 is a hydrophobic protein or prone to form insoluble aggregates. As shown in Fig. 7, when the proline-rich domain (PRD) and the 8CM region of EARLI1 were expressed separately as His-tagged recombinant proteins in E. coli, the solubility of the two domains became distinct. While the PRD was completely soluble (Fig. 7a), the 8CM domain was almost exclusively found in the insoluble fraction (Fig. 7b), suggesting that this region is either highly hydrophobic or aggregates easily in solution. Regardless of the solubility, besides apparent monomers higher order complexes were detected for both EARLI1 peptide domains in the immunoblot analyses. When protein samples were treated with the reducing agent β-ME, the PRD complexes were resolved into apparent monomers, while the 8CM region was largely unaffected by the treatment. [[FIGURE]]  The presence of a signal peptide in the conceptual amino acid sequence of EARLI1 suggests that it is a secreted protein, which would correlate well with EARLI1’s hypothetical role of protecting the plasma membrane and/or cell wall structures. To test whether EARLI1 is a secreted protein, the localization pattern of EARLI1 was analyzed using an EARLI1-GFP fusion protein and confocal microscopy. GFP fluorescence was found at peripheral regions in EARLI1-GFP expressing root cells (Fig. 8a), but not in wild type plants (Fig. 8c). A similar cell peripheral localization pattern was observed in root hair cells of cold-acclimated plants using anti-EARLI1 antiserum and immunohistochemical analysis (unpublished results). To determine whether EARLI1 localized to the plant cell wall or plasma membrane, cell walls were removed from cold-acclimated wild-type leaves and protoplasts were isolated. When equal amounts of proteins from whole cells and protoplasts were incubated with anti-EARLI1 antiserum, only a small amount of EARLI1 protein was detected in protoplasts (Fig. 8e). Taken together, this suggested that EARLI1 is secreted into the cell wall, but may also have some affinity for the plasma membrane. [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~!  Arabidopsis thaliana L. ecotype Columbia (Col-0) plants and the late-flowering Col-FRI-Sf2 line (Lee and Amasino CITATION) used as wild-type control plants were kindly provided by Dr. Richard Amasino (University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA). An Arabidopsis line overexpressing EARLI1 in the Col-0 background was described previously (Bubier and Schläppi CITATION). An EARLI1 knockdown line, in which the expression of EARLI1 and its three closest paralogs (At4g12470, At4g12490, At4g12500) were knocked down by RNA interference, was created in the Col-FRI-Sf2 background. Surface-sterilized seeds were initially grown on 0.8% agar-solidified medium (Difco, Detroit, MI, USA) containing half-strength MS (Murashige and Skoog CITATION) salts (Gibco BRL, Grand Island, NY, USA) for 10–14 days in a short-day photoperiod (8 h light/16h dark cycles) with approximately 65 μmol m−2 s−1 photon flux and 25°C day/22°C night temperatures. The largest plantlets were then transferred to artificial soil (1:1 mix of vermiculite:perlite) into 2-inch pots (four plants/pot; 32 pots/flat) and grown under cool fluorescent light with a 16-h light/8-h dark long-day-photoperiod, 20 ± 1°C day/night temperature, and about 60–70% relative humidity. Flats were watered three times per week with 0.1 g/l 15-16-17 Peters fertilizer (Grace Sierra, Milpitas, CA, USA). For cold acclimation treatment, Petri dishes or flats with plants in soil were transferred to 4°C and short-day photoperiod for normally 3–7 days. For the RNAi knockdown construct, a 132 bp region within the conserved 8CM domain of EARLI1 was amplified from a cDNA template using PCR primers 5′-TGCTCTAGAGCATTTGGTTGACCTCGACG-3′ (XbaI site underlined) and 5′-CCATCGATGGGCCAGACGGAACCTTTC-3′ (ClaI site underlined) to create the antisense copy of EARLI1 for the hairpin of the RNAi construct, and PCR primers 5′-CCGCTCGAGCGGTTTGGTTGACCTCGACG-3′ (XhoI site underlined) and 5′-CGGGGTACCCCGGCCAGACGGAACCTTTC-3′ (KpnI site underlined) to create the sense copy of EARLI1 for the hairpin. PCR products were cloned into pGEM-T (Promega, Madison, WI, USA), either double-digested with XbaI and ClaI or XhoI and KpnI, and ligated into either XbaI and ClaI or XhoI and KpnI double-digested pHANNIBAL (Wesley et al. CITATION). Resulting constructs were sequenced (MGW-Biotech Inc., High Point, NC, USA), digested with NotI and ligated into the NotI digested binary vector pART27 (Gleave CITATION), cloned in Escherichia coli, and introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain ABI for plant transformation.  EARLI1 paralogs, At4g12470, At4g12490 and At4g12500, were amplified from Col-0 genomic DNA using PCR primers 5′-CTAGGATCCTATAAATACCAA-3′ and 5′-ATCGAATTCATAATGGATATT-3′ for At4g12470; PCR primers 5′-TCATATGATCGGATCCTTCTA-3′ and 5′-TATGTGTAATTGAATTCCCTC-3′ for At4g12490; and PCR primers 5′-CTCAATCAAGGATCCTTAAAA-3′ and 5′-TAATGAATTCAAAGAGAACAC-3′ for At4g12500 (BamHI and EcoRI sites, respectively, underlined). PCR products were ligated into pGEM-T and sequenced. Total RNA isolation and RNA gel blot analysis was done as described previously (Bubier and Schläppi CITATION). Normally 20–25 μg of total RNA was used for RNA gel blot analysis. At4g12470, EARLI1, At4g12490, At4g12500, and 18S rDNA probes were made as described previously (Bubier and Schläppi CITATION). The degree of cross-hybridization between probes for EARLI1 and its three paralogs was analyzed by hybridizing each probe to PCR amplified DNA of all four family members. No cross-hybridization was observed, except between At4g12490 and At4g12500. EL assays were performed as described (Warren et al. CITATION) with slight modifications. Three to four pieces of leaves from 3-week-old plants grown in artificial soil and cold acclimated for 3 days at 4°C were randomly chosen from a pool of plants with the same genetic background, washed with ice-cold ddH2O, and put into glass tubes on ice containing 50 μl of ice-cold ddH20. Triplicates of tubes were used for each temperature point. Glass tubes were then incubated in a programmable cooling bath preset at −1°C for 15 min, after which ice chips were added to induce ice nucleation. Tubes were incubated at −1°C for one more hour, after which the bath temperature was gradually ramped down to −12°C at a rate of 2°C/h. Samples were removed at different temperature points and thawed overnight at 4°C. Two milliliter of ddH20 was then added and tubes were shaken at room temperature for 2 h. Conductivity of the liquid in each tube was measured with a conductivity meter. To induce 100% leakage, samples were boiled for 15 min and shaken for another hour before second conductivity measurements. The percent freezing-induced electrolyte leakage was calculated by dividing the first reading by the second (total leakage) minus the leakage of controls kept at 4°C. Results of three experiments were averaged and means were compared by Student’s t test analysis.  Saccharomyces cerevisiae W303-1A MATa (leu2-3,112 trp1-1 can1-100 ura3-1 ade2-1 his3-11,15; Veal et al. CITATION) cells were used as host strain. Plasmid pESC-URA (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA, USA) was used to express myc-tagged EARLI1 (At4g12480; pESC-480) or EARLI1-LIKE genes At4g12470 (pESC-470), At4g12490 (pESC-490), or At4g12500 (pESC-500) under the regulation of the GAL1 promoter. Yeast cells were grown from single colony in SC-URA culture [1.45g/l yeast nitrogen base without amino acid or ammonium sulfate (Sigma); 5g/l ammonium sulfate (Sigma); 2g/l yeast dropout mix (-URA)] supplemented with 2% sucrose. For GAL1 induction, galactose was added to a final concentration of 2%. Yeast freezing assays were performed as described (Zhang et al. CITATION; Weyman et al. CITATION) with slight modifications. S. cerevisiae cells harboring either the empty vector pESC-URA or one of the recombinant plasmids pESC-470, pESC-480, pESC-490, or pESC-500 were grown overnight from a single colony in non-inducing 2% sucrose SC-URA medium. Cell cultures were diluted to an OD600 of 0.1 with 2% sucrose SC-URA medium supplemented with 2% galactose for GAL1 promoter induction and grown for 24 h. Cells were diluted again in the same medium to an OD600 of 0.2 and grown to an OD600 of about 0.7. For each culture, similar amounts of cells were collected by a brief centrifugation and resuspended in 1 ml of sterile water. Four 0.1-ml aliquots of cell cultures were serially diluted and spread on SC-URA agar plates. Another four 0.1-ml aliquots were frozen at −20°C in a precooled metal block. After 24 h, the frozen aliquots were thawed, serially diluted, and plated on SC-URA. Colonies on each plate were counted and averaged. Survival frequencies for each yeast line was calculated as the ratio of the number of freezing survivors divided by the number of cells before freezing treatment. For each experiment an empty vector control was included. Survival frequencies of three to six experiments were combined and means were compared by Student’s t test analysis.  EARLI1 open reading frame lacking the putative signal peptide was amplified using PCR primers 5′-CGCGGATCCACAGATTGTGGTTGC-3′ (BamHI site underlined) and 5′-CGCCTCGAGTCAAGCACATTGGAA-3′ (XhoI underlined), ligated into pGEM-T, sequenced, and subcloned into the expression vector pET28 (Novagen, San Diego, CA, USA) to produce an N-terminally tagged 6xHis-EARLI1 recombinant polypeptide in E. coli. DNA sequences encoding the PRD and the 8CM domains of EARLI1 were amplified using PCR primers 5′-CGCGGATCCACAGATTGTGGTTGC-3′ (BamHI site underlined) and 5′-CGCCTCGAGTCAGTTTCCAGATGAGCC-3′ (XhoI site underlined), and PCR primers 5′-CGCGGATCCATGGGCTCATCTGGAAAC-3′ (BamHI site underlined) and 5′-CGCCTCGAGTCAAGCACATTGGAA-3′ (XhoI site underlined), respectively, and were individually ligated into pET28 to produce N-terminally tagged 6× His-PRD and 6× His-8CM recombinant polypeptides. E. coli cells were induced with 1 mM isopropyl-beta-D-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG; Sigma) for about 3 h. Recombinant protein was isolated from inclusion bodies as recommended by the manufacturers (Novagen) and separated on a 16% SDS-polyacrylamide gel and stained with Coomassie Blue. The area in the gel containing 6× His-EARLI1 was cut out and gel pieces were sent to Spring Valley Laboratories (Woodbine, MD, USA) for antibody production. Rabbits were bled twice, 31 and 52 days after the primary immune-inducing injection. Serum samples were also collected before immune induction, and were used as the pre-immune controls throughout the experiments. Yeast cells transformed with either pESC-470, pESC-480, pESC-490, or pESC-500 were cultured in 2% sucrose SC-URA medium to an OD600 of 0.2. Cultures were then supplemented with 2% galactose and grown to an OD600 of 0.7. To isolate total proteins, cold ddH2O-washed yeast cells were broken in a mixture of 10% TCA and glass beads by vortexing eight times, 15 s each, with 15 s intervals on ice. Precipitated proteins were collected by centrifugation, washed with acetone, and resuspended in SDS-PAGE loading buffer. The amounts of protein loaded were normalized with the yeast cell densities. After separation by 16% SDS-PAGE, proteins were electrotransferred to 0.45-μm nitrocellulose membranes (Schleicher and Schuell, Keene, NH, USA). Membranes were blocked in 5% (w/v) skim milk 1× TBS solution, followed by incubation for 2 h at room temperature with mouse anti-myc antibodies (1:5,000 dilution). Goat anti-mouse IgG peroxidase conjugate (BioRad) at a 1:5,000 dilution was used to visualize antibody-bound myc portions of the recombinant proteins on film. To determine EARLI1 antibody specificity, anti-EARLI1 antiserum (1:500 dilution) and goat anti-rabbit IgG peroxidase conjugate (Sigma) at a 1:5,000 dilution were used to visualize EARLI1 or crossreacting EARLI1-LIKE proteins on film. Solubility of proteins expressed in E. coli was determined by separating total protein into soluble and insoluble matters as recommended by the manufacturers (Novagen). Equal amounts of protein were separated by 16% SDS-PAGE and electrotransferred to 0.45-μm nitrocellulose membranes. Membranes were blocked in 5% (w/v) skim milk 1× TBS solution, followed by incubation for 2 h at room temperature with mouse anti-His antibodies (1:5,000 dilution). Goat anti-mouse IgG peroxidase conjugate (BioRad, Hercules, CA, USA) at a 1:5,000 dilution was used to visualize antibody-bound His portions of the recombinant proteins on film. Unless otherwise stated, for immunoblot analyses using anti-EARLI1 antibodies, the reducing agent β-mercaptoethanol (Sigma) was omitted from the loading buffer. Total plant protein was isolated in Laemmli buffer from frozen plant tissue ground to a fine powder and quantified by the Bio-Rad Dc Protein Assay (BioRad), as described previously (Danyluk et al. CITATION). Protoplasts used for protein isolation were prepared from 20 rosette leaves of 3-week-old Col-0 wild type plants before or after 3 d of cold treatment as described previously (http://www.genetics.mgh.harvard.edu/sheenweb). Equal amounts of protein were separated by 16% SDS-PAGE, electrotransferred to 0.45-μm nitrocellulose membranes, and incubated for 2 h at room temperature with the anti-EARLI1 antiserum (1:500 dilution). Goat anti-rabbit IgG peroxidase conjugate (Sigma) at a 1:5,000 dilution was used to visualize the antibody-bound proteins on film. For some experiments, anti-EARLI1 antiserum was affinity-purified as described (Sambrook et al. CITATION). Briefly, total protein from cold acclimated 3-week-old Col-FRI-Sf2 plants was separated by 16% SDS-PAGE and transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane. The membrane area where the EARLI1 monomers were located (tested on separate membranes by immunoblots) was cut out and used as “bait” to bind the anti-EARLI1 antibody molecules in the antiserum. After incubation for 3 days at 4°C, bound antibodies were washed off by changing the pH of the solution from 7.2 to 2.8. The affinity-purified antiserum was readjusted to neutral pH before use. PCR was performed on EARLI1 cDNA using PCR primers 5′-CATGCCATGGCTTCAAAGAACTCAGCCTC-3′ and 5′-CATGCCATGGCAGCACATTGG-AAGCCAGACG-3′ (NcoI sites underlined). PCR products were digested with NcoI and ligated into pAVA393 containing GFP-5 (von Arnim et al. CITATION). The EARLI1::GFP construct was digested with BamHI and HindIII, ligated into binary vector pPZP211 (Hajdukiewicz et al. CITATION), and introduced into ABI for plant transformation. Five-day-old long-day grown seedlings were used for GFP detection analyses. Plant roots were mounted directly in ddH2O. GFP fluorescence was excited at 488 nm by a blue laser and detected at 505–530 nm using a Zeiss confocal microscope (Axiovert 200 with LSM 5 Pascal software). Images were taken by either 40 or 60× oil-immersion objectives. Each picture was taken as a slice of a Z-stack, at about 1 μm thickness, as recommended by the manufacturer. At least ten individual plants from each genetic background were examined.
