!~ABS~! Controlling microtubule dynamics and spatial organization is a fundamental requirement of eukaryotic cell function. Members of the ORBIT/MAST/CLASP family of microtubule-associated proteins associate with the plus ends of microtubules, where they promote the addition of tubulin subunits into attached kinetochore fibers during mitosis and stabilize microtubules in the vicinity of the plasma membrane during interphase. To date, nothing is known about their function in plants. Here, we show that the Arabidopsis thaliana CLASP protein is a microtubule-associated protein that is involved in both cell division and cell expansion. Green fluorescent protein–CLASP localizes along the full length of microtubules and shows enrichment at growing plus ends. Our analysis suggests that CLASP promotes microtubule stability. clasp-1 T-DNA insertion mutants are hypersensitive to microtubule-destabilizing drugs and exhibit more sparsely populated, yet well ordered, root cortical microtubule arrays. Overexpression of CLASP promotes microtubule bundles that are resistant to depolymerization with oryzalin. Furthermore, clasp-1 mutants have aberrant microtubule preprophase bands, mitotic spindles, and phragmoplasts, indicating a role for At CLASP in stabilizing mitotic arrays. clasp-1 plants are dwarf, have significantly reduced cell numbers in the root division zone, and have defects in directional cell expansion. We discuss possible mechanisms of CLASP function in higher plants.
!~RES~! The single ortholog of the CLASP/MAST/ORBIT family found in the Arabidopsis genome (At2g20190; herein named CLASP) is predicted to encode a protein of 1440 amino acids with an estimated molecular mass of 158 kD and a pI of 6.72. Like other members of this family, At CLASP is relatively large and contains an N-terminal TOG domain (Figure 1A , gray regions), which is named after the human Tumor-Overexpressed Gene (TOG) protein member of the MAP215/Dis1/TOG family. At CLASP shares 23% identity and 42% similarity with the human CLASP1 protein and shares similar domain organization with respect to HEAT repeats (Figure 1A, black regions). Human CLASPs also contain a C-terminal CLIP (for Cytoplasmic Linker Protein)–interacting domain (Figure 1A, stippled regions), which shares 28% identity and 52% similarity with the C-terminal region in At CLASP. Figure 1B shows a phylogenetic tree (generated by TreeView, based on ClustalW alignments) of several TOG domain–containing proteins, including the MAP215/Dis1/TOG family and the CLASP/MAST/ORBIT family proteins (circled). [[FIGURE]] At CLASP contains 21 exons and 20 introns spanning a 7411-bp region and yielding a 4320-bp cDNA. To examine the expression of CLASP, RT-PCR was performed using gene-specific primers. As shown in Figure 1C, CLASP transcripts were detected in all examined tissues. This expression is consistent with database queries using Genevestigator (CITATION), which report constitutive, low-level expression of CLASP at all stages of development. To determine the subcellular distribution of the CLASP protein, we engineered a reporter construct encoding the full-length CLASP coding sequence fused to the C terminus of green fluorescent protein (GFP) driven by the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. Stably transformed Arabidopsis plants and tobacco BY-2 suspension culture cell lines showing a wide range of reporter protein expression levels were selected for analysis. This fusion protein was judged to be fully functional by its ability to rescue the clasp-1 mutant (see details below). GFP-CLASP localized to microtubules, whose identity was confirmed by their disappearance upon exposure to 20 μM oryzalin (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Furthermore, treatment with 20 μM latrunculin B had no appreciable effect on GFP-CLASP localization, indicating that the observed localization did not represent actin microfilaments. Plants were categorized into three groups according to GFP-CLASP fluorescence levels and distribution patterns. In low-expression (barely detectable fluorescence) plant lines, GFP-CLASP was observed solely in leaf guard cells and exhibited a modest enrichment of fluorescence (∼20% higher) at the rapidly growing ends of microtubules but did not associate with microtubule ends undergoing shrinkage (Figures 2A and 2B ; see also Supplemental Movie 1 and Supplemental Figure 2 online). These observations are consistent with its role as a +TIP in other organisms (CITATION; CITATION). At moderate expression levels, GFP-CLASP was detected in all leaf epidermal cells and distributed in a nonuniform manner along the full length of microtubules, with no apparent plus end enrichment (Figure 2C, left panel). At high expression levels, GFP-CLASP induced extensive microtubule bundling in leaf epidermal cells, as judged by the increased fluorescence intensity and thick appearance (Figure 2C, middle and right panels). Transient expression of GFP-CLASP in tobacco leaf epidermal cells also induced extensive microtubule bundling in samples showing higher levels of expression (Figure 2D). [[FIGURE]] Plants expressing GFP-CLASP were treated with the microtubule-depolymerizing drug oryzalin and visualized as above. In contrast with the rapid and complete loss of GFP-CLASP–labeled microtubule polymers in the low-expressing lines with low concentrations of oryzalin, the microtubule bundles observed with high expression resisted depolymerization, even after prolonged treatment with high concentrations of oryzalin (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). We also examined the distribution of GFP-CLASP in dividing cells. None of the transgenic Arabidopsis lines expressing GFP-CLASP showed detectable microtubule labeling in roots in which cell division was readily observable. This root-specific lack of fluorescence has been documented for other microtubule reporter fusions, including GFP-tubulins (CITATION) and GFP-EB1 (our unpublished observations), but the cause is unknown. Therefore, we examined GFP-CLASP distribution in tobacco BY-2 cells. Although a range of transgene expression levels were observed in different transformed lines, expression of GFP-CLASP was consistently low, as judged by the relatively weak fluorescence. As shown in Figure 2E, GFP-CLASP localized to all microtubule arrays in dividing cells. Although several CLASP orthologs have been detected at chromosomal kinetochores during prometaphase/metaphase, we did not observe any detectable kinetochore localization (Figure 2E, metaphase panel). Instead, GFP-CLASP localized only to spindle microtubules and the surrounding cytoplasm (Figure 2E, metaphase panel). During anaphase, fluorescence was concentrated in the spindle midzone, appearing enriched at regions of microtubule–microtubule overlap (Figure 2E, arrow). During cytokinesis, GFP-CLASP localized to microtubules of the phragmoplast (Figure 2E, cytokinesis panel). The distribution to all mitotic microtubule arrays supports a role in cell division for CLASP. In order to determine the function of CLASP in vivo, T-DNA insertional mutants were obtained from the SALK T-DNA insertion collection. Of several insertional alleles of the CLASP gene, we obtained two separate alleles (SALK accession numbers SALK_120061 and SALK_83034; herein termed clasp-1 and clasp-2) with insertions in exon 13 and intron 11, respectively. The location of both insertions was confirmed by sequencing. Figure 3A shows the positions of these insertions in the CLASP gene. Because the phenotypes of clasp-1 and clasp-2 were indistinguishable, clasp-1 characterization only is shown in this study. Loss of transcript was confirmed by RT-PCR with primers downstream of the T-DNA insertion site (Figure 3B). Not surprisingly, primers upstream of the insertion site amplified product in mutant lines (∼50% less than in the wild type), although it is unknown whether truncated protein is encoded by these products. [[FIGURE]] Homozygous clasp-1 mutants exhibited significant dwarfing at all stages of development compared with the wild type (Figures 3C to 3F). Stable expression of 35S:GFP-CLASP in these lines rescued the dwarf phenotype (see Supplemental Figure 3 online), indicating the functionality of the transgene and confirming that the phenotype was due specifically to the loss of CLASP. In clasp-1 plants, the lengths of etiolated hypocotyls were significantly reduced compared with those in the wild type (7.4 ± 1.9 mm for clasp-1 versus 13.9 ± 1.36 mm in the wild type; P < 0.05 by Student's t test) (Figure 3D), as were leaf size and rosette diameter (Figure 3E). During flowering, inflorescence stems were much shorter than those of the wild type (Figure 3F) and clasp-1 mutants displayed a marked reduction in seed production, as indicated by shortened siliques with fewer seeds. Roots of clasp-1 mutants were shorter than those in wild-type seedlings (Figures 4A and 4B ). Interestingly, clasp-1 mutants displayed a marked reduction in the length of the division zone and the elongation zone (Figures 4B and 4C, DZ + EZ). A small but significant reduction in elongation zone width was also observed, although this decrease was no longer apparent farther back in fully mature regions (Figure 4D, MZ). The division zones contained fewer cells compared with the wild type (Table 1 ), with cells beginning axial expansion at a position closer to the quiescent center. However, the proportion of mitotic cells within the division zone did not differ significantly from that in the wild type (Table 1). In the mature region of clasp-1 roots, epidermal and cortical cells were significantly shorter than in the wild type, although, in contrast with other microtubule-related mutants, they did not appear swollen (Figure 5A , Table 1). Given the defects in the growth of clasp-1 roots, we sought to determine cell production rates, which reflect both the number of cells in the division zone and the rates of division of cells within that zone (CITATION). Cell production rates were reduced by roughly half in roots of clasp-1 (Table 1). This analysis suggests that the cells in clasp-1 have only limited capacity for division before entering the elongation zone and that subsequent cell elongation potential is also reduced. [[FIGURE]] Root Growth and Cell Size Parameters in Wild-Type and clasp-1 Plants [[FIGURE]] We also measured cell size parameters in leaves and hypocotyls (Figures 5B to 5D). Scanning electron microscopy of 7-d etiolated hypocotyls revealed that epidermal cells of clasp-1 were shorter and wider than those of the wild type, appearing more isodiametrically shaped (Figure 5B). Similarly, leaf epidermal pavement cells were smaller and less interdigitated than wild-type cells, exhibiting a significant (P < 0.0001 by t test) reduction in mean lobe length and a corresponding increase in mean neck width (Figure 5D). These data suggest a role for CLASP in facilitating normal cell expansion in leaves, roots, and hypocotyls, processes that are known to require microtubules. They also suggest that CLASP may be involved in determining cell numbers in organs, given that fewer cells reside in the division zone and that cell production rates are reduced in clasp-1 roots. CLASP's association with microtubules and the observed cell expansion defects in the clasp-1 mutant prompted us to examine the organization of wild-type and clasp-1 interphase microtubules. Figure 5 shows typical antitubulin immunofluorescence patterns seen in wild-type and clasp-1 root cells. Although whole mount immunofluorescence only labels microtubules in the root division zone and elongation zone, this facilitates comparison of the actively growing regions of the root. In agreement with the data in Figure 4 showing a reduction in the division zone and elongation zone, the region stained for microtubules in these preparations was also reduced significantly in clasp-1 plants (Figure 6B ). Interestingly, clasp-1 roots also appeared much narrower when fixed and mounted for these preparations, but this was most likely due to a tendency of the wild-type roots to flatten after fixation. Throughout the root tip, cortical microtubules were well organized and showed a predominantly transverse orientation in clasp-1 plants (Figure 6B). Due to the reduction in division zone size in clasp-1 and the consequent occlusion by root cap cells, the random microtubule organization typical of recently divided G1 cells commonly seen just basal to the root cap was observed relatively infrequently. Instead, at the basal periphery of the root cap, clasp-1 epidermal cells had begun directional expansion along the organ axis and contained well-ordered transverse cortical microtubules. In older, more elongated cells, cortical microtubules remained transverse in clasp-1 as in the wild type. Despite their transverse orientation, clasp-1 root microtubules appeared to be less abundant compared with those of the wild type, particularly in the late elongation zone (cf. insets in Figures 6A and 6B). We quantified this decreased microtubule density by measuring the distance between transversely oriented microtubules in cells of the late elongation zone (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). The mean distance between microtubules was 0.9 μm for the wild type and 1.2 μm for clasp-1 (n = 1439 microtubules; P < 10E-26 by t test). We also observed that, although the overall fluorescence signal in wild-type and clasp-1 cells was similar without a postfixation detergent extraction, there was a reproducible decrease in the antitubulin fluorescence signal in clasp-1 plants relative to the wild type when roots were detergent-extracted during processing with 0.5% Triton, which is used to increase microtubule signal to noise by removing free soluble tubulin subunits. These data indicate that the overall tubulin concentration in cells was similar but that clasp-1 cells had a decrease in microtubule polymer levels, suggesting that microtubules are less stabilized. [[FIGURE]] To further explore the role of CLASP in microtubule stabilization, plants were grown on agar plates containing the microtubule drug oryzalin and were analyzed for root swelling at various concentrations. clasp-1 roots began swelling with 100 nM oryzalin, compared with 300 nM for the wild type, indicating hypersensitivity to microtubule-depolymerizing drugs (Figure 7 ). Together, these data suggest a role for CLASP in maintaining microtubule polymer status in interphase cortical arrays and that a decrease in total tubulin polymer may affect cell expansion properties. [[FIGURE]] Consistent with the role that CLASP orthologs are known to play in mitosis, we observed a number of defects in microtubule organization in dividing clasp-1 cells. As shown in Figure 8 , the most obvious phenotype was seen in prophase cells, wherein a broad preprophase band (PPB) normally forms at the cortex surrounding the nucleus and gradually narrows as the cell approaches mitosis (Figures 8A and 8B). In prophase cells, 61% of clasp-1 cells (n = 20) exhibited poorly developed PPBs, with nonuniform width and microtubule density, compared with 18% (n = 33) in the wild type (Figures 8A and 8B). Interestingly, PPB development appeared to lag behind the progression of the nuclear cycle, as 85% of clasp-1 PPB cells (n = 70) contained highly condensed chromatin and lacked a nucleolus, compared with 57% in the wild type (n = 104). As a result, even clasp-1 cells with very broad PPBs contained nuclei with the appearance of late prophase (Figure 8A). In addition to nonuniform and retarded PPB narrowing, 38% of PPBs in clasp-1 (n = 20) formed at an angle relative to the cell axis, compared with 7% (n = 33) of wild-type PPBs (Figure 8B, right panel). [[FIGURE]] A number of defects were also observed in the organization of the perinuclear microtubules of prophase cells. First, whereas wild-type cells typically exhibit a robust prophase spindle that surrounds and conforms to the ellipsoid shape of the nucleus, clasp-1 prophase spindles were often diamond-shaped, with deformations conforming to the indented surface of the accompanying nucleus (Figures 8A and 8B). Additionally, clasp-1 cells often exhibited a difference in microtubule abundance (judged by relative fluorescence levels and intensities) between the two opposing prophase spindle poles (Figure 8B), and the position of the nuclear equator was often outside the PPB plane. In contrast with the severe chromosome alignment defects observed with CLASP depletion in animal cells (CITATION; CITATION), chromosomes in clasp-1 cells aligned normally and segregated with no apparent defects during metaphase and anaphase. However, clasp-1 spindles exhibited a significant decrease in spindle length along the pole-to-pole axis, whereas the overall morphology appeared normal (Figures 8C and 8D; see Supplemental Figure 5 online). Mean metaphase spindle length was 7.3 ± 0.7 μm for the wild type and 6.1 ± 0.8 μm for clasp-1 (P < 10−6 by t test). Mean maximum anaphase spindle length was 8.0 ± 0.3 μm for the wild type and 5.71 ± 1.3 μm for clasp-1 (P < 0.02 by t test). A decrease in mean spindle width from 5.6 ± 0.7 μm for the wild type to 4.8 ± 0.7 μm for clasp-1 (P < 0.004 by t test) was also seen. Similarly, during cytokinesis, a significant decrease in the length of mature phragmoplasts was observed in clasp-1 cells (Figure 8E, bracket; see Supplemental Figure 5 online). Mean phragmoplast length was 3.8 ± 0.7 μm for the wild type and 3.1 ± 0.7 μm for clasp-1 (P < 10−10 by t test). clasp-1 phragmoplast morphology and orientation appeared otherwise normal. The presence of shorter spindles and phragmoplasts in clasp-1 cells was consistent with observations in other organisms (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Together, the observations reported herein of sparse interphase cortical microtubules, malformed PPBs, and shorter spindles and phragmoplasts support a role for At CLASP in promoting microtubule polymer levels and stability.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana seeds were cold-treated for 48 h after planting to synchronize germination. Seedlings were grown aseptically on Hoagland medium solidified with 1.2% agar at 23°C with a 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle. Two-week-old plants were transferred to soil and further grown under the same growth conditions. The clasp-1 mutant was backcrossed to ecotype Columbia twice prior to analysis. Tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY-2 cells were subcultured on a weekly basis by diluting 1:50 into fresh BY-2 medium (4.3 g/L Murashige and Skoog salts, 100 mg/L inositol, 1 mg/L thiamine, 0.2 mg/L 2,4-D, 255 mg/L KH2PO4, and 3% sucrose, pH 5.0). For Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated transformation of Arabidopsis plants, bacteria were suspended in 5% sucrose with 0.02% Silwet-77 and sprayed onto inflorescences of 4-week-old plants. Tobacco BY-2 suspensions were transformed by mixing 10 μL of Agrobacterium culture (OD = 0.6) with 2 mL of 4-d BY-2 suspension cells in the presence of 2 μM acetosyringone for 4 d, followed by plating on antibiotic-containing plates. cDNA for At CLASP was isolated in two pieces, which were then cloned sequentially into the plasmid pVKH18:EN6mGFP (CITATION). The following PCR primers were used: AMK01 (5′-GCTGCTGGATCCGGTGGTATGGAGGAAGCTTTAGAAATGGCGAG-3′), AMK27 (5′-CCGGCCGAGCTCCTCTGAGCCCCGTTTAGCGGT-3′), AMK28 (5′-GCTGCTGAGCTCAGAAATGAGAGAAGTTCTCTT-3′), and AMK02 (5′-CCGGCCGAGCTCTCAGGTGTCTGCGTCGATAGGGGCACCGTTTC-3′). Genomic DNA was isolated from leaves of 7-d-old seedlings with the quick DNA preparation method (CITATION). For clasp-1 genotyping by PCR, the primers JP22 (5′-CAATGAGGCTTGATAAAGCATTC-3′) and 120053-L (5′-AAAAGTGGCCTCTGGAAATTG-3′) were used to detect the T-DNA insertion, and 120053-L and LBa1 (5′-TGGTTCACGTAGTGGCCATCG-3′) were used to detect the wild-type gene. Tissues were rapidly frozen with liquid nitrogen, and total RNA was extracted using the RNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen). First-strand cDNAs were synthesized from total RNA with SuperScript II reverse transcriptase (Invtrogen). The cDNAs were PCR-amplified for 35 cycles with CLASP primers (5′-TTCAATCAAATTTTGACGGTTGTTC-3′ and 5′-TCAGGTGTCTGCGTCGATAGGGGC-3′ for downstream of the T-DNA insertion and 5′-ATGGAGGAAGCTTTAGAAATG-3′ and 5′-CTCTCCAACTCTTATGCATC-3′ for upstream of the T-DNA insertion) or ACTIN8 primers (5′-ATTAAGGTCGTGGCA-3′ and 5′-TCCGAGTTTGAAGAGGCTAC-3′). Alignments were performed with ClustalW (www.ebi.ac.uk/clustalw/), and trees were generated using TreeView software (taxonomy.zoology.gla.ac.uk/rod/treeview.html). Protein domains were predicted using SMART (smart.embl-heidelberg.de/) and ScanProsite (expasy.org/tools/scanprosite/). For root tip squashes, seedlings were fixed and processed according to CITATION. For whole root immunofluorescence, roots were processed as for squashes but were not squashed. Specimens were mounted in Citifluor AF1 antifade agent. For epifluorescence and light microscopy; a Zeiss microscope (Axiovert 200M) equipped with AxioCam HRm and a Leica stereomicroscope (M216FA) equipped with DC500 were used. Typical exposure times were 1 to 2 s, using 50% lamp intensity. For time lapses, intervals are indicated in the figures. To measure root cell sizes, plants were imaged with Nomarski optics using a 20× objective. Confocal imaging was performed with a 40× plan-apochromatic water-immersion objective mounted on a Zeiss LSM 510 microscope, using the 488-nm line from an argon laser. IgG:Alexa-488 fluorescence was observed using a 488-nm dichroic filter and a 505- to 545-nm emission filter. Typical scan times were 4 s, using a line averaging of two. Slice thickness was 1.5 μm. For oryzalin treatments, seedlings were grown on medium containing oryzalin at the indicated concentrations for 5 d. Where indicated, 20 μM latrunculin B (Calbiochem) was added from a 20 mM ethanol stock solution. A stock solution of 10 mM taxol (Sigma-Aldrich) was prepared in DMSO and diluted to 20 μM in water immediately prior to experiments. Taxol treatments were at 5 μM. Image analysis was performed using ImageJ software (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/). Whole root immunofluorescence montages were constructed using Corel Draw. Cell production rates were calculated from the ratio of mature cortical root cell length to root growth rate as described by CITATION. The division zone and elongation zone were measured as the distance from the root tip to the emergence of root hairs. The division zone was defined as the distance from the quiescent center to the first appearance of cellular elongation. Tissues were attached to mounting plates with Tissue-Tek (Canemco Supplies) and rapidly frozen by plunging into nitrogen slush at −200°C. The plate with attached sample was then inserted into the preparation chamber of Emitech K1250 and slowly warmed to −90°C to sublime ice crystals from the specimen surface. The cryochamber temperature was adjusted to −176°C, and specimens were sputter-coated with platinum or gold for 2 min. Samples were then transferred to a cryostage at −140°C in Hitachi S4700 FESEM. Leaf pavement cells of third true leaves from 2-week-old seedlings were observed with cryoscanning electron microscopy as described. The width of neck regions and the length of lobes were measured as shown in Figure 4. Measurements were conducted on at least 130 cells collected from five different leaves from five individual plants. For each leaf, three photographs were taken in the midregion of the leaf. The Arabidopsis Genome Initiative locus identifier for CLASP is At2g20190. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Overexpression of GFP-CLASP Induces Stable Microtubule Bundles. Supplemental Figure 2. Fluorescence Intensity Plot of GFP-CLASP Along Growing and Shrinking Microtubules. Supplemental Figure 3. Molecular Complementation of clasp-1 Plants with 35S:GFP-CLASP. Supplemental Figure 4. Root Cortical Microtubules Are More Sparse in clasp-1 Compared with the Wild Type. Supplemental Figure 5. Spindle and Phragmoplast Lengths Are Reduced in clasp-1. Supplemental Movie 1. GFP-At CLASP Is a Plus End–Tracking Protein.
