!~ABS~! Pyruvate kinase (PK) catalyses the irreversible synthesis of pyruvate and ATP, which are both used in multiple biochemical pathways. These compounds are essential for sustained fatty acid production in the plastids of maturing Arabidopsis embryos. Using a real-time quantitative reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR approach, the three genes encoding putative plastidial PKs (PKps) in Arabidopsis, namely PKp1 (At3g22960), PKp2 (At5g52920) and PKp3 (At1g32440), were shown to be ubiquitously expressed. However, only PKp1 and PKp2 exhibited significant expression in maturing seeds. The activity of PKp1 and PKp2 promoters was consistent with this pattern, and the study of the PKp1:GFP and PKp2:GFP fusion proteins confirmed the plastidial localization of these enzymes. To further investigate the function of these two PKp isoforms in seeds comprehensive functional analyses were carried out, including the cytological, biochemical and molecular characterization of two pkp1 and two pkp2 alleles, together with a pkp1pkp2 double mutant. The results obtained outlined the importance of these PKps for fatty acid synthesis and embryo development. Mutant seeds were depleted of oil, their fatty acid content was drastically modified, embryo elongation was retarded and, finally, seed germination was also affected. Together, these results provide interesting insights concerning the carbon fluxes leading to oil synthesis in maturing Arabidopsis seeds. The regulation of this metabolic network by the WRINKLED1 transcription factor is discussed, and emphasizes the role of plastidial metabolism and the importance of its tight regulation.
!~RES~! In the model plant A. thaliana, the complete sequencing of the genome revealed 13 gene sequences encoding putative PKs. Comparison of the corresponding amino acid sequences with PK sequences from other organisms demonstrated that the members of the large A. thaliana PK (AtPK) family belonged to distinct subgroups (Figure 1a). Firstly, a plant group comprising 10 AtPK sequences associated with sequences of cytosolic PK isoforms from Oryza sativa, Solanum tuberosum and Glycine max could be distinguished (group II). A second plant cluster countained the remaining three A. thaliana sequences, with predicted putative chloroplastic targeting signals and other plant PKps (group V). In this group of plant PKps, PKp1 (At3g22960) appeared to be more closely related to PKp A isozymes from R. communis and N. tabacum, whereas PKp2 and PKp3 (At5g52920 and At1g32440, respectively) were more closely related to PKp G isozymes from the same species. It should be noted that the intron–exon structure of PKp genes (see later) supports the robustness of the branch point between PKp isozymes A and G. [[FIGURE]] The three A. thaliana genes encoding putative PKp isoforms were examined further, and their expression patterns were analysed in various tissues of the wild-type accession Wassilewskija (Ws) using quantitative RT-PCR. Although the three PKp genes appeared to be ubiquitously expressed, they exhibited distinct patterns. Relative PKp1 transcript levels were fairly constant in vegetative organs, flowers and silique walls (Figure 1b), but showed a significant increase in early maturing seeds, rising to 30% of the EF1αA4 (EF) level 9 days after anthesis (DAA; Figure 1c). Although the trends observed in PKp2 expression pattern were very similar to those of PKp1, the relative mRNA levels of PKp2 were significantly higher, reaching 300% of the EF level in seeds 9 DAA (Figure 1c). In contrast to PKp1 and PKp2, PKp3 was not induced and was hardly detectable in maturing seeds. To gain more information about the expression patterns of the two PKp genes induced in maturing seeds, the spatiotemporal activity of both PKp1 and PKp2 promoters were investigated. Promoter fragments of 1501 and 521 bp (referred as to ProPKp1 and ProPKp2, respectively) were fused translationally to the uidA reporter gene. The chimeric constructs were assayed for their expression patterns in transgenic A. thaliana lines. ProPKp1 activity was detected in rosette leaves; the staining obtained was particularly intense in leaf veins and trichomes (Figure 2a,b). Staining was also observed in stems and flowers (Figure 2c). Although sepals and petals seemed to be entirely stained, the activities detected in anthers and in the region of the stigma were mainly explained by the strong staining of pollen grains and pollen tubes, respectively (Figure 2d,e). In seeds, zygotic tissues (endosperm and embryo) were strongly stained (Figure 2i). In torpedo-shaped embryos aged 8 DAA, the staining observed was intense in the hypocotyl and in the outer parts of the young cotyledons (Figure 2j). Staining then spread gradually through all the tissues of the embryo, with the noticeable exception of root tips (Figure 2k–m). In rosette leaves, ProPKp2 activity was restricted to leaf veins and trichomes (Figure 2f). The apparent discrepancies between this staining pattern and the corresponding RT-PCR data (Figure 1b) may be explained by a strong, but very localized, expression of PKp2. Alternatively, the stability of PKp2 mRNA may compensate for the relative weakness of the promoter in non-stained regions of the leaves. In reproductive organs (Figure 2g,h) and in developing seeds (Figure 2n–r), the ProPKp2 expression pattern was similar to that of ProPKp1 pattern. [[FIGURE]] The closest homologues of PKp1 and PKp2 have been shown to encode plastidial isoforms of PKs (Figure 1; CITATION; CITATION). In R. communis, transit peptides of 4.8 and 5.5 kDa are cleaved from the α and β-subunit pre-proteins following their translocation into the leucoplast (CITATION). Using PSORT (http://psort.nibb.ac.jp/) and Predotar (http://urgi.versailles.inra.fr/) prediction servers, both PKp1 and PKp2 were predicted to be plastid targeted. Similar predictions were obtained with the TargetP server (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/) (cTP for PKp1: 0.862, reliability class 2; cTP for PKp2: 0.885, reliability class 2). To verify these predictions, the in vivo subcellular localization of PKp1 was investigated with the aid of GFP. A derivative of GFP, mGFP5 (CITATION), was fused to PKp1 cDNA and placed under the control of the CaMV dual 35S promoter for ubiquitous and high expression. The Pro35Sdual:PKp1:GFP construct was stably introduced into wild-type plants. Plantlets from primary transformants were observed for GFP activity. The PKp1:GFP fusion protein was localized in plastids (Figure 3a–c); this result was consistent with the bioinformatic predictions mentioned above. Unfortunately, it was not possible to verify the plastidial localization of PKp2 in stable transformants, as no GFP signal could be detected in the Pro35Sdual:PKp2:GFP transgenic plants generated (see Discussion). As an alternative, a transient expression system was used to obtain information about the subcellular targeting of the PKp2 isoform. Leaves of N. tabacum were infiltrated with the Pro35Sdual:PKp:GFP constructs and this material was observed for GFP activity 4 days after infiltration. Both PKp1:GFP (Figure 3d–f) and PKp2:GFP (Figure 3g–i) fusion proteins were targeted to the plastids, confirming the bioinformatic analyses. [[FIGURE]] To analyse the function of PKp1 and PKp2 in planta, mutants exhibiting transferred (T)-DNA insertions inside the corresponding At3g22960 and At5g52920 genes, respectively, were isolated by reverse genetics. Two flanking sequence tags (FSTs) corresponding to left T-DNA borders were isolated and were anchored to the genome sequence of A. thaliana in the PKp1 gene, and two other FSTs were found and were inserted into the genome sequence of PKp2. In each case, one of the FSTs was isolated from the Salk transformant collection (CITATION), whereas the other was identified in the Versailles T-DNA insertion mutant collection (CITATION). Plant genomic DNA flanking the left T-DNA borders of the corresponding mutants were amplified by PCR and sequenced, confirming the FSTs found. In the pkp1-1 line (EAL11; Ws ecotype), the T-DNA insertion occurred in the first exon of the PKp1 gene, and resulted in a 33-bp deletion of genomic DNA at the insertion site (Figure 4a). In the pkp1-2 line (N596141; Col-0 ecotype), the T-DNA insertion occurred in the first intron. In the pkp2-1 line (FCM8; Ws ecotype), the T-DNA insertion occurred in the ninth exon of PKp2 and resulted in a 9-bp deletion of genomic DNA at the insertion site, whereas the insertion event occurred in the third exon in pkp2-2 (N542938; Col-0 ecotype) (Figure 4b). Homozygous pkp1-1 and pkp1-2 lines were generated that produced seeds with a modified fatty acid content (see below). Then, homozygous pkp2-1 and pkp2-2 lines were generated that produced wrinkled seeds (Figure 4c) with a modified fatty acid content (see below). For each PKp gene considered, reciprocal crosses between the two corresponding mutants were carried out, and no complementation of the phenotype was observed in F1 progenies, demonstrating that the two mutant lines were allelic (data not shown). Finally, a pkp1-1pkp2-1 double mutant was generated that produced viable, but severely wrinkled seeds (Figure 4c). [[FIGURE]] The transcripts present in homozygous PKp mutants were analysed by RT-PCR using siliques at 12 DAA. As expected, full-length PKp1 transcripts were not detectable in either pkp1-1 or pkp1-2 embryos. Analysis of PKp2 and PKp3 expression showed that neither were upregulated to compensate for pkp1 mutation (Figure S1). Likewise, full-length PKp2 transcripts were not detectable in pkp2-1 or pkp2-2 embryos, and neither PKp1 nor PKp3 were upregulated to compensate for pkp2 mutation (Figure S1). PKp activity was then investigated in maturing seeds of A. thaliana. In B. napus, plastidial PKs display a sharp optimum in activity at pH 8.25, whereas the activity of cytosolic isoenzymes is optimal around pH 6.5 (CITATION). PKp activity was therefore assayed at pH 8.25 in wild-type seeds of the Ws ecotype aged 8–16 DAA (Figure 5a). The corresponding activity increased at the onset of seed maturation, peaking at 14 DAA, before falling during late maturation. PKp activities were then determined in early maturing seeds of pkp1-1, pkp2-1 and pkp1-1pkp2-1 mutants (Figure 5b). PKp activities detected in the different mutant backgrounds were strongly reduced compared with their wild-type counterparts, whereas PKc activities were not significantly modified in this material. Because of the very small size of A. thaliana seeds, PK measurements could not be carried out on plastids isolated from embryonic tissues. As an alternative, chloroplasts were prepared from rosette leaves and assayed both for PKp and nitrite reductase (NiR; chloroplastic enzyme). The data obtained (Figure 5c) confirmed that the pkp mutations resulted in a significant decrease in plastidial PK activity. [[FIGURE]] To understand better the role of PKps during seed development, microscope observations were first carried out from late embryo morphogenesis to early maturation (Figure 4d). In pkp1 seeds, the structure of the three types of tissues comprising the seed, i.e. integuments, endosperm and embryo, appeared normal. Embryo development was unaltered except for a slight reduction in embryo size detected in maturing seeds at 12 DAA. In the case of pkp2 mutants, embryo elongation and curvature appeared to be drastically retarded compared with the wild type. Maturing embryos were smaller than their wild-type counterparts, exhibiting small twisted cotyledons with irregular boundaries. This phenotype was even more pronounced in pkp1-1pkp2-1 embryos. To determine whether the pkp mutations had an impact on seed maturation, several parameters were then measured using dry desiccated seeds. A significant decrease in the dry weight (DW) of seeds was detected (Figure 6a). This reduction in dry matter accumulation was relatively small for pkp1 seeds (1–10% depending on the accession considered and on the growth conditions), whereas that of pkp2 and pkp1-1pkp2-1 seeds decreased by 35%. To investigate the putative impact of the pkp mutations on lipid accumulation, fatty acid contents were determined in mature seeds (Figure 6b). There was no significant difference between pkp1 and wild-type lines, whereas pkp2 and pkp1-1pkp2-1 exhibited a 50–70% reduction in fatty acid content compared with wild type. This reduction in oil content was accompanied by a significant modification of seed fatty acid composition (Figure 6c). The relative quantities of end products of desaturation (C18:3) and elongation (C22:1) were significantly higher, whereas the levels of intermediate fatty acid species in these pathways (C18:1, C18:2) were proportionally decreased. Fatty acid measurements were then carried out separately on the embryo, and on the surrounding cellular endosperm dissected from mature imbibed seeds. This demonstrated that fatty acid accumulation was affected in both the embryo and the endosperm (data not shown). Furthermore, the PKp1:GFP fusion protein expressed constitutively in the pkp1-1 knockout mutant was able to complement the seed phenotype of this mutant (Figure S2). [[FIGURE]] The sugar content of mutant dry seeds was then investigated. The overall level of sucrose found in these seeds was essentially unmodified or only slightly reduced (pkp1-1pkp2-1 and pkp1-2); because of the reduction in seed DW observed in the pkp lines (Figure 6a), the sucrose concentration of pkp2-1 appeared to be significantly increased compared with the wild type (Figure S3a). The starch content of mature dry seeds varied greatly depending on the accession used (Figure S3b). Nonetheless, the pkp1-1pkp2-1 mutation produced a clear enrichment in seed starch (255% increase on a DW basis). Finally, protein quantifications found that pkp2-1 and pkp1-1pkp2-1 seeds, despite a reduced accumulation of protein, exhibited a 15% increase in protein concentration compared with the wild type (Figure S3). To test whether seed germination was affected by the pkp mutations, germination assays were carried out on solidified agarose with freshly harvested seeds. When germinated in the light, pkp1-1 seeds were only slightly retarded compared with the wild type, whereas pkp2-1 and pkp1-1pkp2-1 exhibited a severely decreased germination rate (defined by radicle emergence; Figure 7a). In addition, the germination rate of pkp2-1 and pkp1-1pkp2-1 was dramatically reduced after 3 months of dry storage (data not shown). Assays of PK activities realized on germinating seeds 2 days after illumination revealed a decrease in PKp activity, but also a massive increase in PKc activity in mutant material, especially in pkp2-1 and in the double mutant (Figure 7b). CITATION have shown that the oil stored in the endosperm of A. thaliana seeds was necessary to fuel hypocotyl elongation of seedlings germinated in the dark. As both PKp1 and PKp2 were expressed in the endosperm, and pkp mutants exhibited a reduced oil content in this tissue, germination assays were performed in the dark. Under these conditions, the percentage of germination of pkp1-1 seeds after 7 days was only 85% of that of wild type (Figure 7c). The reduction in percentage germination was much more pronounced in pkp2-1 and pkp1-1pkp2-1 mutant backgrounds. After 7 days in the dark pkp seedlings exhibited shorter hypocotyls compared with the wild type, with this phenotype being particularly pronounced in the double mutant (Figure 7d). To test whether these phenotypes resulted from the lack of carbon resources available in pkp seeds, similar assays were performed in the presence of 10 mm sucrose. None of the phenotypes mentioned above could be rescued by the addition of exogenous sugars (data not shown). Apart from this decreased germination rate and a marked delay observed in the growth of pkp2 and pkp1-1pkp2-1 lines, neither the structure nor the fitness of the plants seemed to be affected by the pkp mutations, at least under optimal growth conditions (data not shown). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana seeds of the ecotypes Wassilewskija (Ws) and Columbia (Col) were obtained from the Station de Génétique et d’Amélioration des Plantes (INRA, http://www.international.inra.fr/). The EAL11 and FCM8 lines are T-DNA insertion lines in the Ws ecotype, generated at Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique Versailles (CITATION). In these lines, PKp genes were tagged by T-DNAs, allowing isolation by reverse genetics using the At3g22960 and At5g52920 gene sequences, respectively. The pkp1.2 and pkp2.2 alleles (N596141 and N542938, respectively) are T-DNA insertion lines in the Col-0 ecotype obtained from the Salk Institute (http://signal.salk.edu/). They were identified by looking for insertions in At3g22960 and At5g52920 gene sequences, respectively. Seeds were surface sterilized and germinated on CITATION medium. After a cold treatment of 48 h at 4°C in the dark, plates were kept in a growth cabinet (16-h light photoperiod; 15°C night/20°C day). After 10 days, the plantlets were transferred to compost, grown in a growth chamber under similar conditions and irrigated twice a week with mineral nutrient solution. To harvest seeds at defined developmental stages, individual flowers were tagged on the day of flowering using coloured tape. Material used for RNA extraction was frozen in liquid nitrogen immediately after harvest and stored at −80°C prior to extraction. Weight determinations of seed samples were realized on an M2P balance (Sartorius, http://www.sartorius.com). For germination assays, seeds were sown in triplicate in Petri dishes containing 0.5% (w/v) solidified agarose. After stratification, plates were kept in a growth cabinet (see above). Germination was scored each day based on radicle emergence. Dark-grown seedlings were given 3 h of light after stratification and before wrapping in three layers of foil. After 7 days, germination was scored and hypocotyl lengths were measured to the nearest millimetre. DNA extraction, amplification and sequencing were performed according to CITATION. To amplify the T-DNA left border in pkp1-1, TailA (5′-ATTGCCTTTTCTTATCGACC-3′) and EALB2 (5′-TCGTCATCATCTCCTTCACC-3′) were used; the opposite border was amplified with TailA and EALRB1 (5′-ACATTCATACCTCCCACAGC-3′); this border appeared to be a second left border, indicating that a complex insertion event occurred in the pkp1-1 line. To amplify the T-DNA left border in pkp1-2, SigLB1 (5′-CGGAACCACCATCAAACAG-3′) and N596141REV (5′-CATGGCATTACGCTCTCGTAC-3′) were used. To amplify the T-DNA left border in pkp2-1, TailA and FCM8FOR (5′-CATGCTTGAGAGTATGATAG-3′) were used; the opposite border was amplified with TailA and FCM8REV (5′-CATATATATGGGGCATACAC-3′); this border appeared to be a second left border, indicating that a complex insertion event occurred in the pkp2-1 line. To amplify the T-DNA left border in pkp2-2, SigLB1 and PKP23upA (5′-GAAATGCAGCAGTTTGG-3′) were used. The DNA fragment used corresponds to region −1501 to −1 bp relative to the PKp1 translational start codon. DNA was amplified with the proofreading Pfu Ultra DNA polymerase (Stratagene, http://www.stratagene.com) from wild-type Ws genomic DNA using SalIpEALup (5′-ACGCGTCGACTAAAGCAGATGGGTGGAGAG-3′) and BamHIpEALlow (5′-CGGGATCCGGTTTCGCCGGCGACG-3′), those primers being modified by the respective addition of SalI and BamHI restriction sites at their 5′ ends. The PCR product was digested with SalI-BamHI and cloned into SalI-BamHI-digested pBI101 (CITATION). The DNA fragment used corresponds to region −521 to −1 bp relative to the PKp2 translational start codon. DNA was amplified with the proofreading Pfu Ultra DNA polymerase from Ws genomic DNA using 5′-attB1-TTTTCTTCCGCGGAATACAAA-3′ and 5′-attB2-TTCTGATTTTGAAGAGAAGG-3′, attB1 and attB2 referring to the corresponding Gateway recombination sequences. The PCR product was introduced by a BP recombination into the pDONR207 entry vector (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com) and transferred into the binary vector pBI101-R1R2-GUS (F. Divol, J.-C. Palauqui, and B. Dubreucq, unpublished data) by an LR recombination reaction, to obtain a transcriptional fusion between the promoter and uidA. The resulting binary vectors were electroporated into the Agrobacterium tumefaciens C58C1GV3101 (pMP90) strain and used for agroinfiltration of A. thaliana inflorescences (CITATION). For each construct, eight primary transformants were selected on MS medium containing kanamycin (50 mg l−1) and then transferred to soil for further characterization. PKp1 cDNA was amplified with the proofreading Pfu Ultra DNA polymerase (Stratagene) from a mixture of seed cDNAs (Ws accession) with 5′-attB1-ATGTCTCAGTCTATTCAATT-3′ and 5′-attB2-CCGGGACGTTCATTACCTGGAG-3′, attB1 and attB2 referring to the corresponding Gateway recombination sequences. The primers used to amplify PKp2 cDNA were as follows: 5′-attB1-ATGGCTCAAGTGGTTGC-3′ and 5′-attB2-AACCTTGCGGACTTGG-3′. The PCR products were introduced by a BP recombination into the pDONR207 entry vector and transferred to the binary vector pMDC107 (CITATION) by an LR recombination reaction. The resulting constructs were electroporated into the A. tumefaciens C58C1GV3101 (pMP90) strain and used for agroinfiltration of either A. thaliana inflorescences or N. tabacum leaves. Stable primary transformants of A. thaliana were selected on MS medium containing hygromycin (50 mg l−1) and then transferred to soil for further characterization. The PKp1:GFP transgene was tested for its ability to complement the pkp1-1 mutation. pkp1-1 plants carrying the Pro35Sdual:PKp1:GFP construct were selected and their progeny subjected to fatty acid analyses. A significant restoration of both fatty acid concentration and composition could be measured in these lines, demonstrating that the PKp1:GFP fusion protein was functional. Developing seeds or excised embryos were placed in a quick clearing solution of chloral hydrate for 3–5 h (CITATION), and then observed under differential interference contrast optics using a light microscope (AXIOPLAN 2; Zeiss, http://www.zeiss.com). Photographs were taken using a ProgresResC10Plus image capture system (Jenoptik, http://www.jenoptik.com). Images were then prepared with Adobe Photoshop (http://www.adobe.com). For histochemical detection of GUS activity, tissues were incubated in 0.1 m phosphate buffer, pH 7.2, containing 2 mm 5-bromo-3-indolyl-β-d-glucuronide (X-Gluc; Duchefa, http://www.duchefa.com), 0.1% (v/v) Triton X-100:water, 0.2 (plant organs) or 2 mm (seeds and embryos) each of potassium ferrocyanide and potassium ferricyanide, depending on the construct, and 10 mm Na2-EDTA. A vacuum was applied for 1 h before incubating for 3 h at 37°C in the dark. For bright-field microscope observations of seed sections, the material was fixed and cut as previously described (CITATION). Observation of GFP activity was carried out as described by CITATION. For seed fatty acid analyses, pools of 20 dry seeds were ground in a glass reaction tube prior to the addition of methanol/sulphuric acid (100:2.5, v/v). Extraction and analyses of fatty acid methyl esters by gas chromatography were performed as described previously (CITATION). Sucrose and starch concentrations were determined on batches of 20 dry seeds according to the method described by CITATION. The procedure used for protein determinations was adapted from CITATION. Pools of 10 seeds were ground in 200 μl NaOH 3 N and heated at 130°C in a dry block heater for 45 min. After cooling, samples were centrifuged at 14 000 g for 10 min. A 100-μl volume of supernatant containing hydrolysed proteins was neutralized with 100 μl of 35% acetic acid (v/v). Finally, amino acids released were quantified according to the method described by CITATION, with BSA being chosen for the calibration. Frozen tissues were ground in liquid nitrogen and total RNA was extracted with the RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen, http://www.qiagen.com) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The extracts were treated with 30 U of RNase-free DNase I (Qiagen) and were eluted with 40 μl of diethyl pyrocarbonate-treated water. For RT-PCR studies, DNA-free RNA was converted into first-strand cDNA using the SuperScript pre-amplification system for first-strand cDNA synthesis (Gibco BRL, http://www.invitrogen.com) with oligo(dT)22. The reaction was performed using the LightCycler Instrument (Roche, http://www.roche.com) with the LightCycler-FastStar DNA Master SYBR Green I kit for PCR (Roche) according to the manufacturer’s protocol. Each reaction was performed with 5 μl of between 1:10 and 1:100 dilution of the first cDNA strands in a total volume of 20 μl. The reactions were incubated at 95°C for 8 min to activate the hot-start recombinant Taq DNA polymerase, followed by 45 cycles of 10 sec at 95°C, 6 sec at 55°C and 20 sec at 72°C (CITATION). The specificity of the PCR amplification was checked with a heat dissociation curve (from 65°C to 95°C) following the final cycle of the PCR. The results obtained were standardized to the constitutive EF1αA4 gene expression level (CITATION) amplified with the EF1F and EF1R primers (CITATION). Efficiencies of the different primer sets used were chosen so that they were almost identical. Primer sequences were as follows: 52920up1, 5′-AGTCACTATCGTCCTTCCG-3′; 59920low1, 5′-CTGTACGATTGCTATTTCCTC-3′; 32440up2, 5′-CTACCTGTCAGAACCTCGG-3′; 32440low2, 5′-CCTTTGCATTATTCTTCTCTG-3′; 22960up6, 5′-TCACTGGTCTCCCGATGT-3′; 22960low6, 5′-ACCTCTTGATTTCAGTAACGA-3′. For PKp measurements on whole-plant tissues, frozen material was homogenized in 300 μl of the following extraction buffer (modified from CITATION): 50 mm Hepes-KOH (pH 7.5), 5 mm MgCl2, 1 mm EDTA, 20 mm NaF, 100 mm KCl, 5% (w/v) PEG-8000, 20% (v/v) glycerol, 0.1% (v/v) Triton X-100, 1 mm 2,2′-dithiodipyridine and 1% (w/v) insoluble poly(vinylpolypyrrolidone). The homogenate was centrifuged at 14 000 g for 10 min at 4°C, and the resulting supernatant assayed for PK activity. The assay was performed in a final volume of 200 μl containing 100 mm Hepes-KOH (pH 6.75 or pH 8.25), 10 mm MgCl2, 50 mm KCl, 5% (w/v) PEG-8000, 1 mm dithiotreitol, 2 mm PEP, 0.30 mm NADH, 2.5 mm ADP and 0.5 U of desalted rabbit muscle lactate dehydrogenase. The assay was initiated by the addition of ADP. The rate of oxidation of NADH at 30°C was measured at 340 nm, for duplicate samples, using a fluorometer (Fluoroskan II: Labsystems; http://www.thermo.com). An NADH standard curve was used to calculate the activity in the sample. Fresh rosette leaves (8–10 g) were used to prepare intact chloroplasts according to the procedure described by CITATION. Briefly, leaf homogenates were underlayered with Percoll medium cushion. After centrifugation, the pellet of intact chloroplasts was resuspended in the buffer used for PKp activity measurements (pH 8.25). The homogenate thus obtained was centrifuged at 14 000 g for 10 min at 4°C, and the resulting supernatant was assayed for PKp and NiR activities. NiR measurements were realized according to the method described by CITATION.
