!~ABS~! We have established a protocol for the isolation of highly purified peroxisomes from mature Arabidopsis thaliana leaves and analyzed the proteome by complementary gel-based and gel-free approaches. Seventy-eight nonredundant proteins were identified, of which 42 novel proteins had previously not been associated with plant peroxisomes. Seventeen novel proteins carried predicted peroxisomal targeting signals (PTS) type 1 or type 2; 11 proteins contained PTS-related peptides. Peroxisome targeting was supported for many novel proteins by in silico analyses and confirmed for 11 representative full-length fusion proteins by fluorescence microscopy. The targeting function of predicted and unpredicted signals was investigated and SSL>, SSI>, and ASL> were established as novel functional PTS1 peptides. In contrast with the generally accepted confinement of PTS2 peptides to the N-terminal domain, the bifunctional transthyretin-like protein was demonstrated to carry internally a functional PTS2. The novel enzymes include numerous enoyl-CoA hydratases, short-chain dehydrogenases, and several enzymes involved in NADP and glutathione metabolism. Seven proteins, including β-glucosidases and myrosinases, support the currently emerging evidence for an important role of leaf peroxisomes in defense against pathogens and herbivores. The data provide new insights into the biology of plant peroxisomes and improve the prediction accuracy of peroxisome-targeted proteins from genome sequences.
!~RES~! To identify plant-specific peroxisomal proteins by a large-scale proteomics approach, a new isolation method for leaf peroxisomes from Arabidopsis was established with the objectives of (1) increasing the stability of peroxisomes in aqueous solution, (2) reducing the physical interaction of peroxisomes with mitochondria and chloroplasts, a pronounced phenomenon in Brassicaceae, and (3) increasing the specificity of peroxisome enrichment by a combination of Percoll and sucrose density gradient centrifugation. To this end, 3- to 4-week-old plants were harvested at the end of the dark period and gently ground in a buffer of high osmolarity. After separation of intact chloroplasts, but notably without peroxisome sedimentation by differential centrifugation, the supernatant was laid directly on top of a discontinuous Percoll density gradient (Figure 1A ). Cosedimentation of peroxisomes along with mitochondria and thylakoid membranes by differential centrifugation prior to isopycnic organelle separation increased irreversibly interorganellar adhesion and peroxisome contamination. Whereas chloroplasts, thylakoid membranes, and mitochondria were largely retained in the 15 and 38% (v/v) Percoll fraction near the top of the gradient, intact leaf peroxisomes passed the Percoll layer and were recovered at the bottom, visible as a whitish diffuse organelle sediment (Figures 1B and 1C; see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Peroxisome fractions of several Percoll gradients were combined and washed in Tricine/EDTA buffer containing 36% (w/w) sucrose. Approximately 7% of total activity of the leaf peroxisomal marker enzyme hydroxypyruvate reductase (HPR) of the crude extract was recovered in the first fraction of leaf peroxisomes (LP-P1) with a yield of ∼90 nkat HPR per 60 g fresh weight (Table 1 ). The peroxisome fraction was carefully homogenized and laid on top of a discontinuous sucrose density gradient (Figure 1D; see Supplemental Figure 1 online). After ultracentrifugation, intact leaf peroxisomes were enriched close to the bottom of the gradient, visible as a sharp white band, at the typical density of plant peroxisomes of ∼50 to 53% (w/w) sucrose (Figures 1E and 1F; see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Even though only half of the peroxisomes could be recovered, the contamination by chloroplasts and mitochondria was further reduced by a factor of three (Table 1). On average, 115 ± 29 μg protein were obtained with a specific HPR activity of 293 ± 76 nkat/mg protein (Table 1). The purity of leaf peroxisomes was high, as determined by the activities of marker enzymes for leaf peroxisomes (HPR), mitochondria (fumarase), and chloroplasts (NADP-dependent glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase [GAPDH]) and the content of chlorophyll (thylakoids); contaminating chloroplasts and mitochondria were estimated to comprise only 0.1 and 1.7% of the total, respectively (Table 1). [[FIGURE]] Biochemical Analysis of Peroxisome Purity Peroxisome fractions of highest purity (∼400 nkat HPR/mg protein) were analyzed by 2-DE to display the proteinaceous constituents of Arabidopsis leaf peroxisomes as maps of intact proteins (Figure 2 ). Upon gel staining with colloidal Coomassie blue, ∼180 separated protein spots were visualized, out of which 135 were identified with high confidence by peptide mass and fragment fingerprinting, using an automated platform based on matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF-MS) (CITATION). Summarized over several two-dimensional gels, in addition to 28 known plant peroxisomal proteins, 36 proteins were identified that had previously not been associated experimentally with plant peroxisomes and are referred to as novel proteins throughout this study. [[FIGURE]] With respect to peroxisome purity, few minor spots derived from dominant proteins of chloroplasts and mitochondria. For instance, the presence of the large and small subunits of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase, the most abundant plant protein, and small subunits of the photosystems (e.g., PSBP; Figure 2) indicated a low contamination with chloroplasts. Similarly, a few tiny protein spots represented mitochondrial proteins, including the P and H subunits of Gly decarboxylase (GDC-P and GDC-H), which is the most prominent mitochondrial protein; subunit β of the ATP synthase complex (ATPase β); and Ser-hydroxymethyltransferase (Figure 2). By contrast, no dominant proteins were detected of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) (e.g., BiP), the nucleus (e.g., histones and DNA polymerase subunits), the plasma or tonoplast membranes, or the Golgi. Likewise, major cytosolic proteins were not found except for two spots identified as cytosolic glyceraldehyde phosphate dehydrogenase subunit C and aconitase. Based on the staining intensity of leaf peroxisomal versus nonperoxisomal protein spots (Figure 2), we concluded that leaf peroxisomes were isolated at ∼95% purity, with a minor contamination by dominant proteins from mitochondria and chloroplasts but not by other subcellular compartments. Although two-dimensional gel-based proteomics approaches offer the advantage that protein integrity and information on protein abundance, isoform identity, and posttranslational modifications are retained, limitations with respect to the identification of small, basic, and hydrophobic proteins are reported. To complement the gel-based approach and improve coverage of the peroxisomal proteome, a gel-free technique was added that employs one-dimensional LC separation at the level of proteolytic peptides, commonly referred to as the shotgun approach (CITATION). This technique is very sensitive and requires only small amounts of total protein, as demonstrated recently by cell-specific protein profiling in pooled trichome and epidermis cells from Arabidopsis (CITATION). The proteins identified by this method largely overlapped with those of the gel-based approach; however, additionally, eight known and six novel proteins were detected only by the shotgun strategy. These proteins generally had either a basic isoelectric point (pI > 8.4) and/or were small proteins (<150 residues), underscoring the complementary nature of the two approaches applied. In total, we identified 78 nonredundant proteins, comprising 36 known and 42 novel proteins (Table 2 ; see Supplemental Table 1 online). Filtered mass spectra for protein identifications are stored in ProMEX, a mass spectral reference library for plant proteomics, that can be searched with peptide product ion spectra of unknown samples (CITATION). Novel Proteins Identified in Arabidopsis Leaf Peroxisomes Identified proteins already known as constituents of leaf peroxisomes or glyoxysomes in any plant species are listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. As valuable information on protein abundance could be deduced from the two-dimensional gels (Figure 2), a few selected proteins are described in more detail here. Consistent with the major function of leaf peroxisomes in glycolate recycling, the most prominent protein spots on the two-dimensional gels represented the enzymes involved in the photorespiratory C2 cycle, all of which were identified (see Supplemental Table 1 online). On the basis of the MS data (see Supplemental Table 2 online), closely related isoforms of high sequence similarity could often be distinguished, allowing conclusions on isoform expression and predominance in mature leaves. For instance, both isoforms of glycolate oxidase (GOX), GOX1 (At3g14415; PRL>) and GOX2 (At3g14420; ARL>), were specifically identified. Of the two isoforms each of Glu-glyoxylate aminotransferase (GGT) and peroxisomal malate dehydrogenase (pMDH), GGT1 (At1g23310; SKM>) and pMDH2 (At5g09660; RIx5HL) dominated over the second isoform, both of which were identified as well and are thus not restricted to nonphotosynthetic tissue (see Supplemental Tables 1 and 2 online). Catalase isoform 3 (CAT3; At1g20620; 80% identical with CAT1 and 2) was more prominent on the two-dimensional gel than CAT2 (At4g35090), even though these isoforms could hardly be separated by isoelectric focusing. CAT1 (At1g20630) was below the detection limit of the gel-based method but was identified by the shotgun method. Three further antioxidative enzymes were identified as well (see Supplemental Table 1 online). Even though fatty acid β-oxidation is primarily performed by glyoxysomes of germinating seeds and is thought to play only a minor role in leaves, we detected not only a complete set of the core β-oxidation enzymes but also several auxiliary enzymes in leaf peroxisomes. The core β-oxidation enzymes included long-chain acyl-CoA synthetase isoform 7 (LACS7; At5g27600; SKL>); acyl-CoA oxidase isoform 4 (ACX4; At3g51840; SRL>); both Arabidopsis isoforms of multifunctional protein (i.e., multifunctional protein isoform 2 [MFP2; At3g06860; SRL>]) and abnormal fluorescence meristem 1 (AIM1; At4g29010; SKL>); and all three thiolase isoforms. Peroxisome Defective 1 (PED1/KAT2; At2g33150; RQx5HL) and peroxisomal keto-thiolase isoform 2 (PKT2/KAT5; At5g48880; RQx5HL) predominated on two-dimensional gels, whereas PKT1/KAT1 (At1g04710; RQx5HL) was identified only by the shotgun approach. The auxiliary enzymes of fatty acid β-oxidation included Δ3,5-Δ2,4- dienoyl-CoA isomerase (DCI; At5g43280; AKL>; CITATION), enoyl-CoA hydratase isoform 2 (ECH2; At1g76150; CITATION), sterol carrier protein isoform 2 (SCP-2; At5g42890; SKL>; CITATION), and acyl-CoA thioesterase (ACH2; At1g01710; SKL>; CITATION). With respect to hormone biosynthesis, not only OPR3 but also 3-oxo-2-(2′-pentenyl)-cyclopentane-1-octanoic acid (OPC-8:0) CoA ligase 1 (OPCL1; At1g20510; SKL>), which activates OPC-8:0 (CITATION), was detected. OPCL1 was represented by a low-abundance protein spot restricted to peroxisomes of highest purity, consistent with its low expression level under standard conditions and its induction by wounding. Two further acyl-CoA acitivating enzymes (AAEs) included AAE7/ACN1 (At3g16910; SRL>; CITATION) and 4-coumarate-CoA ligase-like protein 1 (4CLP1; At4g05160; SKM>; CITATION). In agreement with the heat inducibility of one of the two sHsps from plant peroxisomes (HSP15.7-Px; CITATION), only the constitutively expressed isoform ACD31.2-Px (At1g06460; RLx5HF) was identified. As peroxisomal membranes were not further enriched prior to proteome analysis, the number of integral membrane proteins identified was low (APX3, PEX11d, and PEX14), which is consistent with the low content of membrane proteins in peroxisomes in general (CITATION; S. Reumann, unpublished data). In summary, the 36 known plant peroxisomal proteins identified in isolated leaf peroxisomes included all soluble enzymes involved in photorespiration, ROS metabolism, and JA biosynthesis. The detection of many core and auxiliary enzymes involved in fatty acid β-oxidation and sulfur and nitrogen metabolism (see Supplemental Table 1 online) indicated that (1) the dynamic range of protein identification was sufficiently high to cover low-abundance enzymes that are predominantly expressed in peroxisome variants other than leaf peroxisomes and that (2) β-oxidation–related enzymes may play a yet underestimated role in leaf peroxisomal metabolism. Several matrix enzymes, although encoded by single Arabidopsis genes, often appeared on the two-dimensional gels as multiple protein spots arranged in a characteristic horizontal pattern. This pattern was most obvious for highly abundant matrix enzymes, namely GGT1, Ser-glyoxylate aminotransferase, HPR, and pMDH2, but also observed for minor enzymes, such as ascorbate peroxidase (APX3) and OPCL1 (Figure 2; see Supplemental Figures 2A to 2C online). The horizontal spot series of CAT3 differed slightly in that the differences in pI between spots were smaller (see Supplemental Figure 2D online). Although horizontal spot trains are often seen as artifacts of 2-DE, the uniform and regular patterns observed here might be indicative of the presence of charge-modifying posttranslational modifications, such as phosphorylation and acetylation. Among the 42 novel proteins, a surprisingly large number had annotated functions related to fatty acid β-oxidation (Table 2). One protein is a yet uncharacterized isoform of the extended superfamily of acyl-activating enzymes, namely AAE5 (At5g16370; SRM>), belonging to clade VI of largely unknown PTS1-carrying AAEs, as does AAE7/ACN1 (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Regarding the superfamily of enoyl-CoA hydratases/isomerases (ECHIs; CITATION), with MFP and AIM1 being the most prominent enzymes, we now identified monofunctional members of plant peroxisomes. The first ECHI, referred to as isoform a (ECHIa; At4g16210; SKL>), belongs to clade VI of putative plant enoyl-CoA hydratases. Two further monofunctional ECHIs identified, namely, ECHIb (At4g14430; PKL>) and ECHIc (At1g65520; SKL>), have been grouped in clade III and are the closest Arabidopsis homologs of peroxisomal monofunctional Δ3-Δ2-enoyl-CoA isomerase (PECI) from fungi and mammals (CITATION; CITATION). Most intriguing of this enzyme family is ECHId, annotated as putative naphthoate synthase (NS/ECHId; At1g60550; RLx5HL) because the enzyme is plant specific among eukaryotes and represents the Arabidopsis homolog of cyanobacterial MenB (clade V), an enoyl-CoA hydratase involved in phylloquinone biosynthesis (CITATION; CITATION, see also references therein). This provides experimental evidence for peroxisome targeting of the single Arabidopsis homolog of MenB, further supported by conservation of the predicted PTS2 in homologous ESTs (see Supplemental Figure 3O online), and indicates that phylloquinone biosynthesis is partly compartmentalized in plant peroxisomes. One protein spot was identified as a monofunctional hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase, annotated as hydroxybutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase (HBCDH; At3g15290) and carrying the predicted major PTS tripeptide PRL> (CITATION). Of the experimentally uncharacterized Arabidopsis family of small thioesterases (STs) with six PTS1-possessing members (CITATION), the second isoform of clade I (ST2; At1g04290; SNL>) is now experimentally associated with plant peroxisomes. Five novel proteins belong to the superfamily of short (polypeptide)-chain dehydrogenases/reductases (SDRs) and include four monofunctional SDRs (SDRa, At4g05530, SRL>; SDRb, At3g12800, SKL>; SDRc, At3g01980, SYM>; and SDRd, At3g55290, SSL>) and a bifunctional short- and medium-chain dehydrogenase/reductase (BSMDR; At1g49670; SRL>) with an N-terminal SDR and a C-terminal medium-chain dehydrogenase/reductase domain of the subgroup of NADPH:quinone reductases (COG0604, Qor). The latter was identified specifically by the gel-free approach. Further novel enzymes with predicted catalytic activities related to fatty acid β-oxidation included epoxide hydrolase isoform 3 (EH3; At4g02340; ASL>) and one of two Arabidopsis homologs of acetoacetyl-CoA thiolase (ACAT2, EC 2.3.1.9, At5g48230, which is 80% identical with ACAT1, At5g47720; CITATION). GOX3 (At4g18360; AKL>) is a yet unknown isoform that shares 85% identity at the amino acid level with GOX1/2 but is predominantly expressed in nonphotosynthetic tissue and presumably plays a role outside of photorespiration (CITATION; CITATION). Enzymes associated with peroxisomal NADP metabolism included isoforms of NADP-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH; At1g54340; SRL>) and 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (6PGDH; At3g02360; SKI>), one of three enzymes of the oxidative pentose phosphate pathway (OPPP). Several novel plant peroxisomal enzymes are predicted to catalyze GSH-dependent reactions. These identified proteins included an isoform of glutathione reductase (GR; At3g24170; TNL>), isoform θ 1 of the extended Arabidopsis family of glutathione S-transferases (GSTT1, formerly GST10, At5g41210, SKI>, EC 2.5.1.18; CITATION), and the single Arabidopsis homolog of S-(hydroxymethyl)glutathione dehydrogenase (HMGDH; At5g43940; EC 1.1.1.284; CITATION). Seven identified proteins are functionally associated with plant defense mechanisms, which was rather unexpected. Four enzymes are β-glucosidases of the superfamily of glycoside hydrolase family 1, many of which are reported to mediate plant defense against herbivores (CITATION; Table 2). The β-glucosidases included β-glucosidase 1 (BGL1; At1g52400; CITATION), PYK10 (At3g09260), and the myrosinase homolog thioglucoside glucohydrolase 2 (TGG2; At5g25980; CITATION). All three defense-related enzymes were apparently upregulated in leaf peroxisomes isolated from senescent plants (see Supplemental Figures 2E and 2F online); TGG1 (At5g26000; CITATION) was specifically identified in the latter (data not shown). The myrosinase-associated protein EPITHIOSPECIFIER MODIFIER1 (ESM1; At3g14210), which alters glucosinolate hydrolysis and insect resistance (CITATION), was identified in highly purified leaf peroxisomes as well. Two other defense proteins identified comprised one of three Arabidopsis homologs of vertebrate macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF; At3g51660; SKL>) and ozone-induced protein 1 (OZI1; At4g00860), a plant-specific small polypeptide of only 80 residues that is induced by ozone and pathogen attack (CITATION). Likewise unexpected was the identification of proteins with annotated functions related to nucleic acid metabolism. These six proteins included two Gly-rich RNA binding proteins (GRP7 and 8; At2g21660 and At4g39260; CITATION), two DEAD-box RNA helicases (RH11, At3g58510; RH37, At2g42520), an unknown RNA binding protein (RBP; At4g17520), and a nucleotide binding protein (NBP; At4g16566). Except for NBP carrying the PTS1-like C-terminal tripeptide SKV>, all proteins related to nucleic acid metabolism lack predicted PTSs. Proteins with other annotated functions included two enzymes reported to be involved in Cys and Met biosynthesis. O-acetylserine sulfhydrylase (OASS A1; At4g14880) is a presumably cytosolic isoform lacking an obvious PTS. Isoform 1 of cobalamin (vitamin B12)-independent Met synthase (METE1; At5g17920; EC 2.1.1.14; CITATION) carries the PTS1-related C-terminal tripeptide SAK>. One of two Arabidopsis homologs of betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase (BADH; At3g48170; SKL>) was identified as well, homologs of which had previously been localized to the peroxisome matrix in monocotyledons (CITATION). Another protein spot (ATF1; At1g21770; SSI>) was identified as a closely related homolog of a recently crystallized minimal acetyl transferase (ATF2; At1g77540; SSI>; CITATION). The single Arabidopsis transthyretin-like protein (TLP; At5g58220) is homologous to mammalian transthyretin, a transport protein for vertebrate hormones (CITATION; CITATION, CITATION). Interestingly, the full-length protein contains a predicted PTS2 (RLx5HL) outside of the N-terminal domain in a linker region that connects two enzymatic domains, whereas two alternative splice variants from Arabidopsis lack the putative targeting signal (Figure 3A ; see Supplemental Figure 3P online; CITATION; CITATION). By MS sequencing of three tryptic peptides covering major parts of the linker region, including the putative PTS2, the TLP homolog identified in Arabidopsis peroxisomes was demonstrated to represent the full-length protein, strengthening the idea that the internal PTS2 peptide targets full-length TLP to peroxisomes (Figure 3). Lastly, four novel proteins lacked annotated domains and sequence similarity with known proteins deposited in the protein databases; three of these unknown proteins (UPs) carried PTS-like tripeptides (UP1, At1g52410, SSL>; UP2, At3g15950, SLN>; and UP3, At2g31670, SSL>; Table 2). [[FIGURE]] The majority of the novel proteins found to be associated with leaf peroxisomes (64%) carried predicted well-known PTSs (16 proteins; CITATION) or PTS-related peptides, for instance, SSL>, SSI>, ASL>, SAK>, or SYM> (11 proteins; Table 2), strongly supporting their localization in the peroxisome matrix. Because the sole presence of a putative PTS peptide is an insufficient criterion to definitely conclude peroxisome targeting (see Introduction), we further investigated the predicted targeting function of PTS peptides using both computational and experimental analyses. As part of the computational analyses, predicted orthologs of the novel proteins were retrieved from protein and EST databases of higher plants and analyzed for conservation of the predicted targeting peptides as outlined previously (CITATION; CITATION). Most proteins fulfilled the initial requirements for subsequent analysis except for a few proteins that either appeared to be specific to Brassicaceae (e.g., EH3 and UP1-3) or shared high sequence similarity with other Arabidopsis homologs (e.g., SDRd, BADH, GOX3, and METE1), preventing the specific detection of apparent orthologs. On average, 30 plant ESTs were retrieved for each novel protein. Except for one EST homologous to SDRa terminating with FRL>, the orthologs of nine novel proteins with predicted PTS1 (ECHIa/b/c, ST2, SDRa/c, BSMDR, GSTT1, and MIF) carried approximately four different C-terminal tripeptides each, all of which represented major or minor PTS1s (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). Five other novel proteins had previously been reported to carry conserved PTS1 (SDRb/DECR, HBCDH, IDH, 6PGL, and 6PGDH; CITATION). Likewise, the postulated peroxisome-targeting function of the PTS1-related tripeptide SSI> present in ATF1 was supported by the detection of several homologous ESTs possessing either minor noncanonical PTS1s (SSM> or SNM>) or closely related tripeptides, such as SHI> and SNI> (see Supplemental Figure 3N online). In addition, most plant homologs of ATF1 carried a basic residue at position −4, which is reported to enhance peroxisome targeting by weak PTS1 tripeptides (CITATION; CITATION). Regarding SDRc (SYM>), only PTS1-like peptides were present in homologous ESTs (e.g., SF[ML]>, AYM>; see Supplemental Figure 3H online). However, the high content of basic amino acid residues and Pro in front and the lack of acidic residues in the C-terminal tripeptides themselves were consistent with protein targeting by the PTS1 pathway. Although a dissection of plant homologs of ACAT2 into apparent orthologs of ACAT1 or ACAT2 was difficult, many EST sequences were found to carry C-terminal 10–amino acid extensions either terminating with predicted (SKL>) or novel PTS1s (SSL>; see below) or PTS1-like tripeptides (SAL> or SLL>; see Supplemental Figure 3J online). Regarding novel proteins carrying predicted PTS2, the peroxisome targeting function of the predicted PTS2 in naphthoate synthase (NS/ECHId; At1g60550; RLx5HL) was well supported by conservation of the nonapeptide as major or minor PTS2 (R[LIMV]x5HL) in plant orthologs. Moreover, characteristic amino acid residues predicted to act as targeting-enhancing elements (Arg and Pro) were present in close proximity to the PTS2 (CITATION; see Supplemental Figure 3O online). Likewise, the predicted internal PTS2 (RLx5HL) of TLP was conserved as putative major or minor PTS2s in all homologous plant ESTs spanning this region (e.g., R[LIMV]x5HL and RIx5HM) except for one slightly divergent nonapeptide (RVx5HV) present in Medicago (see Supplemental Figure 3P online). Even though full-length TLP variants appear to predominate among plant ESTs, some plant species, such as Oryza and Triticum, were found to express alternative splice variants similar to Arabidopsis that exactly lack this nonapeptide (Figure 3B; see Supplemental Figure 3P online; CITATION). To experimentally verify protein targeting to peroxisomes and the peroxisome-targeting function of predicted PTSs, subcellular targeting of seven representative fusion proteins with EYFP was analyzed by fluorescence microscopy upon transient cDNA expression in onion epidermal cells. Four proteins carried predicted major PTS1 peptides (SRL>, SKL>, or PRL>), whereas three proteins possessed predicted minor PTS1s (SKI> or PKL>) of lower peroxisome-targeting probability (CITATION). For all proteins, subcellular targeting of two constructs was analyzed (i.e., EYFP fusions of the full-length proteins of interest and fusions attaching only the predicted PTS1 targeting domain [PTD], comprising the C-terminal 10–amino acid residues, including the putative PTS1 tripeptide, to EYFP). NADP-dependent IDH (At1g54340; SRL>) was chosen as one of the proteins carrying predicted major PTS1 peptides. NADP-dependent IDH, fused at its N terminus with EYFP (EYFP-IDH), was indeed detected in punctate structures in onion epidermal cells (Figure 4A 1). In double transformants expressing simultaneously a peroxisome-targeted cyan fluorescent protein (CspMDH-CFP; CITATION; CITATION), the yellow fluorescent subcellular structures were identified conclusively as peroxisomes (Figures 4A1 and 4A2). EYFP extended by the C-terminal 10–amino acid residues of IDH, including the predicted PTS1 SRL> (EYFP-PTDIDH), was directed from the cytosol to punctate structures, thereby identifying SRL> as the PTS of peroxisomal IDH (Figure 4B). Two further proteins, namely, the full-length fusion proteins of the predicted DECR homolog SDRb (At3g12800; SKL>) and the monofunctional hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase HBCDH (At3g15290; PRL>), were targeted to peroxisomes as well (Figures 4C1, 4C2, 4E1, and 4E2). EYFP extended by the PTDs of these proteins showed a punctate fluorescence pattern, characterizing the C-terminal tripeptides SKL> and PRL> as the targeting signals of SDRb/DECR and HBCDH, respectively (Figures 4D and 4F). [[FIGURE]] Regarding proteins carrying predicted minor PTS1 peptides, the fusion protein between EYFP and ECHIb (At4g14430; PKL>), one of two predicted homologs of mammalian PECI (CITATION), was targeted to punctate structures in onion epidermal cells that coincided with CFP-labeled peroxisomes (Figures 4I1 and 4I2). EYFP, extended by the C-terminal 10–amino acid residues of ECHIb, including the predicted PTS1 PKL> (EYFP-PTDECHIb), was directed from the cytosol to punctate structures, thereby identifying the minor PTS1 PKL> as the PTS of peroxisomal ECHIb (Figure 4J). Likewise, the isoform GSTT1 (At5g41210) with the putative PTS1 SKI> was shown to be located in peroxisomes, as the yellow fluorescent spots coincided with cyan fluorescent peroxisomes upon expression of EYFP-GSTT1 (Figures 4K1 and 4K2). The transferase was imported into peroxisomes via the PTS1 pathway because attachment of the C-terminal 10–amino acid domain of GSTT1 to EYFP showed a punctate pattern of fluorescence (Figure 4L). The full-length protein of the NADPH-producing dehydrogenase 6PGDH (At3g02360; SKI>) fused to the C-terminal end of EYFP was the only full-length fusion protein that remained cytosolic, for yet unknown reasons (Figure 4M). The C-terminal 10–amino acid residues of 6PGDH, however, directed EYFP to punctate subcellular structures that moved along cytoplasmic strands and coincided with peroxisomes (Figures 4N1 and 4N2). Although not identified within the proteome analysis, subcellular targeting of 6P-gluconolactonase (6PGL), the precedent enzyme of 6PGDH in the peroxisomal OPPP (CITATION, CITATION), was also investigated using one specific isoform (At5g24400) out of five Arabidopsis homologs. This enzyme carries both a predicted N-terminal transit peptide and a conserved PTS1 (SKL>; CITATION). Whereas 6PGL-EYFP was targeted to plastid-like structures consistent with the presence of a functional N-terminal transit peptide (see Supplemental Figure 4 online), the inversely arranged fusion protein, EYFP-6PGL, was targeted to peroxisomes (Figures 4G1 and 4G2), as was EYFP-PTD6PGL with the PTS1 SKL> (Figure 4H). These data further strengthen the idea that this 6PGL isoform is targeted to both plastids and peroxisomes in vivo, probably regulated by alternative translation (CITATION). Taken together, predicted peroxisome targeting of novel proteins identified in isolated leaf peroxisomes was experimentally confirmed for five of the six full-length candidate proteins and additionally for 6PGL as a metabolically related enzyme; all predicted PTS1s were characterized as the functional targeting signals of the respective proteins. Peroxisome targeting of full-length 6PGDH may have been disturbed by the N-terminal EYFP tag or depend on yet unknown auxiliary import factors missing in the standard expression system of onion epidermal cells. We next investigated whether representative novel proteins carrying PTS1-related peptides at the extreme C terminus or PTS2 peptides outside of the defined N-terminal domain are indeed imported into peroxisomes and whether these peptides function as targeting signals. The three PTS1-related tripeptides chosen for these experiments were SSL>, SSI>, and ASL>. The full-length fusion protein composed of EYFP and Arabidopsis enoyl-CoA hydratase ECH2 (At1g76150; SSL>) was targeted to peroxisomes (Figures 5A1 and 5A2). Extension of EYFP by the C-terminal 10–amino acid residues of ECH2 directed the reporter protein to punctate structures that coincided with peroxisomes (Figures 5B1 and 5B2); thus, the C-terminal PTS1-like tripeptide SSL> is the PTS1 of ECH2 and a novel functional PTS1 tripeptide in higher plants. Likewise, EYFP-ATF1 (At1g21770) terminating with SSI> was detected in peroxisomes (Figures 5C1 and 5C2). The putative PTS1 domain of this protein directed EYFP to punctate structures that coincided with peroxisomes, establishing SSI> as a second novel plant PTS1 (Figures 5D1 and 5D2). For epoxide hydrolase isoform 3 (EH3; At4g02340) carrying the C-terminal PTS1-like tripeptide ASL>, organelle targeting was difficult to demonstrate owing to a pronounced cytosolic background staining. Nevertheless, protein targeting to peroxisomes could be demonstrated by double labeling in a few cells (Figures 5E1 and 5E2). Attachment of the C-terminal 10–amino acid residues of EH3 to EYFP directed the reporter protein from the cytosol to punctate structures that coincided with peroxisomes (Figured 5F1 and 5F2). With these results, we conclusively demonstrated targeting of another three proteins to peroxisomes (ECH2, ATF1, and EH3) and established the PTS1-like peptides SSL>, SSI>, and ASL> as novel functional PTS1 peptides for higher plants. By current definition, PTS2 nonapeptides are confined to the N-terminal domain comprising ∼40 amino acid residues. To determine whether the bifunctional TLP identified in Arabidopsis leaf peroxisomes (Figures 2 and 3, Table 2) was targeted to peroxisomes by the internally located putative PTS2 (RLx5HL), the full-length cDNA of TLP was cloned downstream of EYFP and transiently expressed in onion epidermal cells. The fusion protein EYFP-TLP was detected mainly in the cytosol. However, despite the strong background fluorescence, targeting of EYFP-TLP to punctate structures suggestive of peroxisomes was observed in some cells (Figure 5G ). The low contrast between the yellow fluorescent punctate structures and the background, however, allowed conclusive organelle identification as peroxisomes by double labeling only in a single cell (data not shown). In an alternative approach, the His residue known to be essential for the targeting function of PTS2 (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) was mutated to Asp (RLx5HL→RLx5DL). Indeed, the mutated fusion protein EYFP-TLPΔPTS2 was no longer targeted to peroxisomes but exclusively detected in the cytosol and the nucleus, as was EYFP alone (Figure 5H). Thus, these data demonstrate targeting of a eukaryotic TLP homolog to peroxisomes and an internal location of a functional PTS2 in an endogenous eukaryotic protein. [[FIGURE]] The defense- and nucleic acid metabolism-related proteins identified in isolated leaf peroxisomes were represented by a relatively high number of proteins lacking known PTSs. Some of these defense-related proteins, such as BGL1, PYK10, and Brassica myrosinases, are reported to form polymers (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Likewise, nucleic acid metabolism-related proteins may be components of large protein complexes, such as ribosomes, exosomes, spliceosomes, or P-bodies (for review, see CITATION). Even though unlikely, it was conceivable that these proteins were accidentally copurified with leaf peroxisomes through large complexes of similar sedimentation behavior in density gradient centrifugation. To distinguish between a physiologically relevant or artificial association of defense- and nucleic acid metabolism-related proteins with leaf peroxisomes, the isolation protocol was modified in such a way that intact leaf peroxisomes were lysed in hypoosmotic media by conditions that are not expected to reduce the sedimentation rate of protein complexes. To this end, Arabidopsis leaves were worked up in grinding and washing buffer lacking sucrose under otherwise identical conditions. Indeed, the fractions of the sucrose density gradient corresponding to those of intact leaf peroxisomes (fractions 11 and 12, Figure 1) contained substantially less total protein and largely lacked HPR activity, indicating that intact leaf peroxisomes were efficiently lysed and no longer recovered (data not shown). When such a fraction volume corresponding to ∼200 μg leaf peroxisomal protein in the presence of osmoticum was subjected to 2-DE, none of the defense-related proteins (BGL1, TGG2, PYK10, or ESM1) were detected by Coomassie staining (see Supplemental Figure 5 online). Similarly, the nucleic acid metabolism-related proteins GRP7 and 8 and RBP were not visible. Although two very faint spots may coincide with the RNA helicases RH11 and RH37 (see Supplemental Figure 5 online), these data as a whole strongly argue against an artificial copurification of high molecular weight complexes formed by the defense- or nucleic acid metabolism-related proteins with leaf peroxisomes and support a physiologically relevant association of most if not all of these PTS-deficient proteins with leaf peroxisomes.
!~MM~! Standard Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia-0 plants were grown for 3.5 to 4.5 weeks in a 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle (light period 10 to 2 pm) at 22°C under a light intensity of 100 to 150 μE m−2 s−1. For the isolation of leaf peroxisomes from senescent leaves, 4-week-old plants were subjected for 4 d to dark-induced senescence. Plants were harvested at the end of an extended dark period (18 h dark). Arabidopsis leaves were ground in grinding buffer (170 mM Tricine-KOH, pH 7.5, 1.0 M sucrose, 1% [w/v] BSA, 2 mM EDTA, 5 mM DTT, 10 mM KCl, and 1 mM MgCl2) in the presence of protease inhibitors using a mortar and a pestle. The suspension was filtered, and chloroplasts were sedimented at 5000g (1 min, SS34 rotor). Approximately 20 mL of supernatant was loaded onto a Percoll density gradient prepared in TE buffer (20 mM Tricine-KOH, pH 7.5, and 1 mM EDTA) supplemented with 0.75 M sucrose and 0.2% (w/v) BSA underlaid by 36% sucrose (w/w) in TE buffer (top to bottom: 3 mL of 15% Percoll, 9 mL of 38% Percoll, 2 mL mixture of 38% Percoll, and 36% [w/w] sucrose at a ratio of 2:1 and 1:2, and 3 mL of 36% (w/w) sucrose in TE buffer). The Percoll gradients were centrifuged for 12 min at 10,500 rpm and 10 to 20 min at 15,000 rpm (SS34 rotor). For analytical purposes, the gradient was fractionated in 2-mL fractions and small aliquots frozen for enzymatic analyses. For preparative purposes, the peroxisome fractions at the bottom of the gradient of several Percoll gradients were combined, diluted in 36% (w/w) sucrose in TE buffer and sedimented by centrifugation (30 min, 15,000 rpm, SS34 rotor), yielding the leaf peroxisomal fraction LP-P1. The organelles were gently homogenized and loaded on top of a discontinuous sucrose density gradient (1 mL 41% [w/w], 1 mL 44% [w/w], 1 mL 46% [w/w], 2 mL 49% [w/w], 0.5 mL 51% [w/w], 1 mL 55% [w/w], and 1 mL 60% [w/w] in TE buffer) and ultracentrifuged (30 min to overnight, 25,000 rpm; Beckman SW40). For analytical purposes, the gradient was fractionated in 1-mL fractions and small aliquots frozen for enzymatic analyses. For preparative purposes, the leaf peroxisome fraction LP-P2, visible as a sharp white band above 55% (w/w) sucrose, was harvested, supplemented with protease inhibitors, and stored in appropriate aliquots. For the analysis of an artificial copurification of high molecular weight complexes with leaf peroxisomes, sucrose was omitted from the grinding and washing buffer and leaves and the fraction corresponding to that of intact leaf peroxisomes worked up in an identical manner. The activities of marker enzymes and protein concentration were determined as described (CITATION) or by the 2-D Quant Kit (GE Healthcare) using BSA as standard. The contamination C of leaf peroxisomes by mitochondria and chloroplasts was calculated based on the relative activities of the corresponding marker enzyme activities (e.g., Afum. [% of CE]) that were recovered in the leaf peroxisome fraction LP-P2 (or LP − P1) compared with the crude extract (CE) according to the following formulae (Table 1): Improved protein solubilization was achieved in the presence of urea, thiourea, and zwitterionic detergents. The limited solubilization capabilities of 3-[(3-cholamidopropyl)-dimethylammonio]-1-propanesulfonate (CHAPS) were effectively compensated by the addition of amidosulfobetaine-14, though accompanied with a slight decrease in resolution in the first dimension as indicated by vertical smearing of high abundant proteins with basic pI, such as GOX (Figure 2). The proteins (200 to 500 μg) were precipitated (CITATION), dissolved in IEF buffer (7 M urea, 2 M thiourea, 2% [w/v] CHAPS, 2% [w/v] amidosulfobetaine-14, and 0.5% IPG buffer; Destreak), the solution clarified by centrifugation (20 min, 16,000 xg), and the proteins subjected for ∼60 kVh to isoelectric focusing (nonlinear Immobiline 18-cm pH gradient, pH 3.0 to 10). The proteins were then reduced and alkylated by equilibration for 12 min each in buffer (6 M urea, 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.8, 30% [v/v] glycerol, 2% [w/v] SDS, and 0.001% [w/v] bromophenol blue) containing either 10 mg/mL DTT or 25 mg/mL iodoacetamide, respectively. For SDS-PAGE and the second dimension, the proteins were separated on large gradient gels (10 to 15% acrylamide) under denaturing conditions and stained with colloidal Coomassie Brilliant Blue. Manually excised gel plugs were processed as described in another recent large-scale proteome analysis (CITATION). Briefly, an automated platform for the identification of gel-separated proteins (CITATION) was used to digest the proteins in gel with trypsin and to prepare the proteolytic peptides for MALDI-TOF-MS according to the thin layer affinity method. For each sample, a PMF spectrum and fragment ion spectra of up to four selected precursor ions were acquired within the same automated analysis loop using an Ultraflex I mass spectrometer (Bruker Daltonics). Database searches in the NCBI nonredundant primary sequence database restricted to the taxonomy of Arabidopsis were performed using the Mascot Software 2.0 (Matrix Science) licensed in house. Carboxamidomethylation of Cys residues was specified as fixed and oxidation of methionines as variable modification. One trypsin missed cleavage was allowed. Mass tolerances were set to 100 ppm for PMF searches and to 100 ppm (precursor ions) and 0.7 D (fragment ions) for MS/MS ion searches. Only proteins represented by at least one peptide sequence match above identity threshold in combination with the presence of at least four peptide masses assigned in the PMF were considered as identified. Protein analysis was performed according to CITATION; see also detailed protocol in CITATION). Protein pellets (100 to 200 μg) were dissolved in 100 to 200 μL Lys-C solubilization buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl and 8 M Urea, pH 7.5) and digested with Endoproteinase Lys-C (Roche Applied Science) with an enzyme:substrate ratio of 1:1000 for 5 h at 37°C with gentle shaking. The digests were subsequently diluted fourfold with trypsin digestion buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl, 10% acetonitrile, and 10 mM CaCl2, pH 7.5), resulting in a final concentration of 2 M urea. After addition of immobilized trypsin beads (Applied Biosystems) (enzyme:substrate ratio of 1:20), the samples were further incubated for 10 h at 37°C with gentle shaking. The digests were dissolved in 0.1% formic acid. Samples were concentrated on a precolumn and subsequently loaded onto a 15-cm silica-based C18 RP monolithic column (Merck Bioscience). Elution of the peptides was performed using a 2-h gradient from 100% solvent A (5% acetonitrile and 0.1% formic acid in water) to 100% solvent B (90% acetonitrile and 0.1% formic acid in water) using the Agilent nano HPLC system with a flow rate of 400 nL per min. Eluting peptides were analyzed with an LTQ mass spectrometer (Thermo Electron) operated in a data-dependent mode. Each full MS scan was followed by three MS/MS scans, in which the three most abundant peptide molecular ions were dynamically selected for collision-induced dissociation using a normalized collision energy of 35%. The temperature of the heated capillary and electrospray voltage was 150°C and 1.9 kV, respectively. After MS analysis, DTA files were created from raw files and searched against a database (http://www.arabidopsis.org/) using Bioworks 3.1 software (Thermo Fisher Scientific) using a precursor ion mass tolerance of 500 ppm, oxidized Met as dynamic modification, and fully tryptic peptides with one allowed miscleavage. With DTASelect, a list of identified proteins was obtained using the following criteria: Xcorr: −1 2.0, −2 2.2, and −3 3.5 for hits with at least two different peptides. Selected peroxisomal proteins found by a single peptide were postanalyzed manually and protein identification confirmed for 3 of 13 proteins (GOX3, BSMAR, and PYK10; Table 2). All the filtered and manually validated spectra are stored in a mass spectral reference library for plant proteomics called ProMEX (CITATION), which is accessible online (http://promex.mpimp-golm.mpg.de/). Using text query searches, for instance the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative code of the protein, it is possible to list all the corresponding product ion spectra. Unknown samples can be searched against the ProMEX library using dta, mfg, or mz data format files. The full-length cDNA clones of IDH (At1g54340; SRL>) and 6PGL (At5g24400; SKL>) were cloned by RT-PCR using appropriate oligonucleotide primers (see Supplemental Table 4 online) as described previously for other cDNAs (CITATION). ECHIb (At4g14430; PKL>), SDRb (At3g12800, previously At3g12790; SKL>), HBCDH (At3g15290; PRL>), 6PGDH (At3g02360; SKI>), GSTT1 (At5g41210; SKI>), ECH2 (At1g76150; SSL>), EH3 (At4g02340; ASL>), and TLP (At5g58220; internal RLx5HL) were ordered from the ABRC. The cDNA of the minimal acetyltransferase 1 (ATF1; At1g21770; SSI>) was ordered from the RIKEN BioResource Center, and the missing N-terminal 12–amino acid residues were added by PCR (see Supplemental Table 4 online). The cDNAs were subcloned using appropriate oligonucleotide primers (see Supplemental Table 4 online) into pGEMT using the pGEM-T Easy vector system (Promega) or directly into pCAT-YFP-N-fus to fuse their 5′ end in frame with EYFP, under control of a double 35S cauliflower mosaic virus promoter (CITATION; CITATION). For 6PGL, the predicted transit peptide was omitted when fused 5′-terminally with EYFP (EYFP-6PGL). Site-directed mutagenesis was performed using PfuUltra high-fidelity (HF) DNA polymerase for mutagenic primer-directed replication of both plasmid strands of EYFP-TLP in pCAT-EYFP-Nfus using the Quick-Change II site-directed mutagenesis kit (Stratagene; see Supplemental Table 4 online). Thereby, the internal PTS2 (RLx5HF) was mutated to the loss-of-function variant RLx5DF. For analysis of the peroxisome targeting function of putative PTS domains, the C-terminal 10 residues of ECHIb, SDRb/DECR, HBCDH, IDH, 6PGDH, 6PGL, GSTT1, ECH2, EH3, and ATF1 were fused to the C terminus of EYFP by PCR using an extended reverse primer and subcloned likewise into pCAT, replacing the EYFP insert. In double transformants, peroxisomes were labeled with CFP as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). Onion epidermal cells were transformed biolistically and the onion slices placed on wet paper in Petri dishes and stored on a benchtop for 16 to 24 h. For analysis by fluorescence microscopy, the onion skin epidermal cell layer was peeled and transferred to a glass slide. All subcellular analyses were reproduced at least three times in independent experiments. Fluorescence microscopy was performed as described (CITATION). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Work Flow of the Isolation of Leaf Peroxisomes from Mature Leaves of Arabidopsis by Percoll and Sucrose Density Gradient Centrifugation. Supplemental Figure 2. Detection of Specific Leaf Peroxisomal Matrix Enzymes in Multiple Spots and Upregulation of Defense-Related Proteins in Leaf Peroxisomes from Senescent Plants. Supplemental Figure 3. PTS Conservation of Novel Arabidopsis Proteins Identified in Isolated Leaf Peroxisomes. Supplemental Figure 4. Subcellular Targeting Analysis of 6PGL-EYFP in Onion Epidermal Cells. Supplemental Figure 5. Analysis of a Copurification of High Molecular Weight Complexes with Arabidopsis Leaf Peroxisomes. Supplemental Figure 6. Venn Diagram Comparing the Number of Proteins Identified in This and Previous Proteome Studies on Arabidopsis Peroxisomes. Supplemental Figure 7. Model of Plant Peroxisomal Glutathione Metabolism. Supplemental Figure 8. Phylogenetic Analysis of the Arabidopsis Glycoside Hydrolase Family 1. Supplemental Table 1. Known Proteins of Plant Peroxisomes Identified in Isolated Leaf Peroxisomes from Arabidopsis. Supplemental Table 2. MS Data of Proteins Identified. Supplemental Table 3. Sequence Conservation of SDR Domains in Peroxisomal SDRs. Supplemental Table 4. Cloning, Subcloning, and Mutagenesis Primers. Supplemental Data Set 1. Amino Acid Sequence Alignments Used in Construction of the Arabidopsis Glycoside Hydrolase Family 1 Phylogenetic Tree in Supplemental Figure 8.
