!~ABS~! Amongst the nine voltage-gated K+ channel (Kv) subunits expressed in Arabidopsis, AtKC1 does not seem to form functional Kv channels on its own, and is therefore said to be silent. It has been proposed to be a regulatory subunit, and to significantly influence the functional properties of heteromeric channels in which it participates, along with other Kv channel subunits. The mechanisms underlying these properties of AtKC1 remain unknown. Here, the transient (co-)expression of AtKC1, AKT1 and/or KAT1 genes was obtained in tobacco mesophyll protoplasts, which lack endogenous inward Kv channel activity. Our experimental conditions allowed both localization of expressed polypeptides (GFP-tagging) and recording of heterologously expressed Kv channel activity (untagged polypeptides). It is shown that AtKC1 remains in the endoplasmic reticulum unless it is co-expressed with AKT1. In these conditions heteromeric AtKC1-AKT1 channels are obtained, and display functional properties different from those of homomeric AKT1 channels in the same context. In particular, the activation threshold voltage of the former channels is more negative than that of the latter ones. Also, it is proposed that AtKC1-AKT1 heterodimers are preferred to AKT1-AKT1 homodimers during the process of tetramer assembly. Similar results are obtained upon co-expression of AtKC1 with KAT1. The whole set of data provides evidence that AtKC1 is a conditionally-targeted Kv subunit, which probably downregulates the physiological activity of other Kv channel subunits in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! When expressed alone in tobacco mesophyll protoplasts, the AtKC1::GFP fusion was retained in the ER (Figure 1a), whereas in parallel experiments the AKT1::GFP fusion was targeted to the plasma membrane, as indicated by the co-localization of FM4-64 staining (Figure 1b). Interestingly, when the AtKC1::GFP fusion was co-expressed with AKT1, the fluorescence shifted to the plasma membrane (Figure 1c). This suggested that some interaction between the two Shaker channel subunits AKT1 and AtKC1 occurred, and enabled the latter to escape from the ER and to reach the plasma membrane, probably as a component of heteromeric channels, together with AKT1. [[FIGURE]] The patch-clamp technique (whole-cell configuration) was used to study exogenous channel activity resulting from AtKC1 and/or AKT1 coexpression in tobacco mesophyll protoplasts. When expressed alone, AtKC1 did not change the plasma membrane conductance: AtKC1-expressing protoplasts displayed the same current pattern as control protoplasts transformed with the empty vector, i.e. low currents with weak dependence on time and voltage (‘no voltage threshold’, Figure 2a). In the same conditions, as previously reported (CITATION), AKT1 expressed alone formed functional channels enabling large time- and voltage-dependent currents to flow through the protoplast membrane upon hyperpolarization, characterized by a voltage threshold close to −40 mV (‘−40 mV voltage threshold’, Figure 2b, left). A variable feature displayed by the corresponding protoplasts was the current amplitude, probably resulting from differences in AKT1 expression level from one transformed protoplast to another. [[FIGURE]] All the protoplasts expressing both AtKC1 and AKT1 displayed time- and voltage-dependent currents, but, in most cases, the activation voltage threshold of these currents was more negative than −40 mV. This voltage threshold was obtained as follows. In each AtKC1/AKT1 co-expressing protoplast, and for each imposed voltage, we checked whether the recorded current was significantly larger than the endogenous current recorded in control protoplasts at the same voltage. Stepping from 0 mV (or −20, or −40 mV, in some instances) with a −20 mV decrement, the first voltage step for which this occurred was taken as the threshold for activation of the exogenous current. Activation voltage thresholds were thus estimated to within 20 mV and, with respect to this, AtKC1/AKT1 co-expressing protoplasts could be sorted into three categories, corresponding to threshold values of −40 mV (Figure 2b, right), −100 mV (Figure 2c) and −160 mV (Figure 2d), respectively. Average current–voltage curves with the different observed voltage thresholds are shown in Figure 2(e) (only the time-dependent current was considered in these plots). These different voltage thresholds for current activation corresponded to actual changes in the voltage dependence of the current, as evidenced by G/Gmax analyses (inset in Figure 2e). If AKT1 and AtKC1 subunits are able to assemble in heteromeric channels, several combinations are possible a priori. Therefore, in protoplasts co-expressing AKT1 and AtKC1, the data (macroscopic currents and derived gating curves) probably reflect the activity of different types of heterotetramers rather than that of a homogenous population of a single type of channel. Thus, in such circumstances, the parameters (Gmax, z and Ea50) shaping the Boltzmann gating curves shown in Figure 2(e) (inset) are purely operational, but cannot be ascribed to a given type of channel. In contrast, the voltage threshold for the whole-cell current activation indicates that channels gating below this threshold (e.g. −100 mV) are numerous enough to yield measurable macroscopic currents, and that channels gating from a higher threshold (e.g. −40 mV) were absent or few in number, i.e. not detectable. As a consequence of these drastic changes in voltage dependence, no exogenous outward hyperpolarization-activated and time-dependent K+ currents were recorded, in 1 mm external K+, in AtKC1/AKT1 co-transformed protoplasts displaying −100 mV or −160 mV voltage thresholds (Figure 2f). Such outward currents were recorded, however, in the AKT1 transformed protoplasts (Figure 2g). Depending on which subunits were expressed, the occurrence of the current patterns (relative to the voltage threshold of the inward currents) varied as is summarized in Figure 3. AtKC1- and AKT1-expressing protoplasts displayed a single current pattern, ‘No voltage threshold’ and ‘−40 mV voltage threshold’, respectively. Thus, none of the AtKC1-expressing protoplasts displayed time- and voltage-dependent currents, and all the AKT1-expressing protoplasts displayed such currents below a threshold in the −40 mV range. AtKC1/AKT1 co-expressing protoplasts displayed one of the ‘−40 mV’, ‘−100 mV’ and ‘−160 mV voltage threshold’ current patterns, the first one being the less frequently observed (Figure 3). [[FIGURE]] We also investigated whether AtKC1 was able to interact with, and to change the channel activity of, a Kv subunit other than AKT1. KAT1 has been found to interact with the C-terminal part of AtKC1 in two-hybrid experiments (I. Chérel, personal communications). Therefore, KAT1 was co-expressed with AtKC1 in tobacco protoplasts, and the resulting heterologous channel activity was compared with the one resulting from the expression of KAT1 alone in the same context. The results (Figure S1) indicate that AtKC1 and KAT1 subunits are able to form heteromeric channels, with negatively shifted activation voltages when compared with homomeric KAT1 channels.
!~MM~! Analyses of channel subcellular localization and electrophysiological activity were carried out using transiently transformed tobacco leaf mesophyll protoplasts, as described previously (CITATION). The protoplasts were incubated for 12–38 h at 19°C after transformation. Subcellular localizations of channel-GFP marker constructs, and of FM4-64 labelling, were performed using a Zeiss confocal microscope (LSM510 AX70; Carl Zeiss Inc., http://www.zeiss.com). Electrophysiological analyses were carried out in parallel using protoplasts from the same batch, but transformed using vectors (CITATION) allowing co-expression of one of the two channel subunits under investigation with GFP as a marker of the transformed cells. In this case, the GFP sequence was not fused to the sequence of a channel subunit, but was inserted separately in the transforming vector. To measure currents from only transformed protoplasts, an epifluorescent microscope allowing GFP detection was combined with a patch-clamp set-up. The GFP signal was detected between 489 and 508 nm using an emission filter (piston-GFP; Olympus, http://www.olympus.co.uk) upon excitation at a wavelength of 488 nm emitted by a monochromator (Optoscan C80x; Cairn Research Ltd, http://www.cairnweb.com; CITATION). GFP-positive protoplasts were analyzed for their exogenous inward K+ conductance. Patch-clamp pipettes were pulled (P97; Sutter Instruments, http://www.sutter.com) from borosilicate capillaries (Kimax-51;Kimble, http://www.kimble.com) to obtain a pipette resistance of about 12 MΩ in the solutions used. Electrophysiological analyses were performed only when seals with resistances higher than 1 GΩ were obtained. Whole-cell recordings were made using an Axopatch 200A amplifier (Axon Instruments, http://www.axon.com). The pCLAMP 8 software (Axon Instruments) was used for voltage-pulse stimulation, online data acquisition and data analysis. The standard protocol consisted of stepping the membrane potential in −20-mV decrements to voltages from 0 to −200 mV, from a holding potential of 0 mV. In some cases, an offset of −20 or −40 mV was set on the amplifier to shift the accessible voltage range to −20/−220 mV or −40/−240 mV (as indicated in the figures). The pipette solution contained 1 mm CaCl2, 5 mm EGTA, 2 mm MgCl2, 100 mm K-glutamate, 2 mm MgATP, 10 mm HEPES–NaOH (pH 7.5), with its osmolarity adjusted to 520 mOsm with d-mannitol. The perfused bath solution contained 10 mm CaCl2, 2 mm MgCl2, 50 mm K-glutamate, 10 mm 2-(N-morpholine)-ethanesulphonic acid (MES)-HCl (pH 5.5), with the osmolarity adjusted to 500 mOsm with d-mannitol. The junction potential was corrected but no leak correction was made. G/Gmax analysis was made from the steady-state value of the time-dependent current (CITATION; CITATION). The currents recorded in protoplasts co-expressing AtKC1 and AKT1 suggested that different kinds of AtKC1-AKT1 heterotetramers were formed (see Discussion). This prompted us to model the assembly of tetramers from a given stock of monomeric AtKC1 and AKT1 α subunits (AtKC1/AKT1 ratio on the x-axis in Figure 4b–d), to predict the subunit composition of the resulting channels, considering a number of assumptions, as described in Discussion. Briefly, once a dimer has been drawn, its fate was as follows: (i) any AtKC1 dimer was disassembled (‘no AtKC1 dimer’ hypothesis), (ii) an AKT1 homodimer (or an AtKC1-AKT1 heterodimer) was either kept for subsequent assembly of tetramers with an x (or a y) probability, or was disassembled with a 1 – x (or 1 – y) probability. Disassembled dimers yielded monomers available for new pairing. In the ‘preference for homodimers’ case (Figure 4b), x was 10 times y. In the ‘random assembly’ case (Figure 4c), x was equal to y. In the ‘preference for heterodimers’ case (Figure 4d), y was 10 times x. The absolute value of x (or y) had no consequence on the resulting dimer population: only the x/y value was of consequence. One thousand drawings for dimers were performed, the outcomes of which were averaged to yield a mean dimer stock. Assembly of tetramers was simulated in silico by drawing pairs of the previously obtained dimers. Any drawn pair of dimers was kept as a tetramer. One thousand drawings for tetramers were made and averaged to yield the results shown in Figure 4b–d.
