!~ABS~! Δ-1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthetase enzymes, which catalyse the rate-limiting step of proline biosynthesis, are encoded by two closely related P5CS genes in Arabidopsis. Transcription of the P5CS genes is differentially regulated by drought, salinity and abscisic acid, suggesting that these genes play specific roles in the control of proline biosynthesis. Here we describe the genetic characterization of p5cs insertion mutants, which indicates that P5CS1 is required for proline accumulation under osmotic stress. Knockout mutations of P5CS1 result in the reduction of stress-induced proline synthesis, hypersensitivity to salt stress, and accumulation of reactive oxygen species. By contrast, p5cs2 mutations cause embryo abortion during late stages of seed development. The desiccation sensitivity of p5cs2 embryos does not reflect differential control of transcription, as both P5CS mRNAs are detectable throughout embryonic development. Cellular localization studies with P5CS–GFP gene fusions indicate that P5CS1 is sequestered into subcellular bodies in embryonic cells, where P5CS2 is dominantly cytoplasmic. Although proline feeding rescues the viability of mutant embryos, p5cs2 seedlings undergo aberrant development and fail to produce fertile plants even when grown on proline. In seedlings, specific expression of P5CS2–GFP is seen in leaf primordia where P5CS1–GFP levels are very low, and P5CS2–GFP also shows a distinct cell-type-specific and subcellular localization pattern compared to P5CS1–GFP in root tips, leaves and flower organs. These data demonstrate that the Arabidopsis P5CS enzymes perform non-redundant functions, and that P5CS1 is insufficient for compensation of developmental defects caused by inactivation of P5CS2.
!~RES~! We have characterized four p5cs1 insertion mutations obtained from the SALK collection (Figure 1a) (CITATION). The SALK_058000 mutant (p5cs1-1) carries a T-DNA insertion in P5CS1 sequences representing the 5′ UTR of the mRNA, 160 bp upstream of the ATG codon. In the SALK_045245 (p5cs1-2) and SALK_037850 (p5cs1-3) mutants, the T-DNA insertions are localized 107 and 718 bp downstream of the ATG in introns 1 and 3, respectively. In the SALK_063517 line (p5cs1-4), the T-DNA insertion is localized 3208 bp downstream of ATG in exon 14 (see also Appendix S1). Transcription of the p5cs mutant alleles was characterized by semi-quantitative RT-PCR using RNA templates isolated from 2-week-old seedlings grown either without salt or in the presence of 200 mm NaCl for 24 h. Using a primer pair for amplification of the full-length cDNA, a residual low level of P5CS1 transcription was detected in the salt-treated p5cs1-1 and p5cs1-3 mutants that carried T-DNA insertions in the 5′ leader region and intron 3, respectively. The levels of full-length transcripts in the p5cs1-1 and p5cs1-3 mutants were 2 and 6%, respectively, of the P5CS1 RNA level in the salt-treated wild-type control, indicating that these lines represent strong knock-down alleles (Figure 1b). [[FIGURE]] Because all SALK T-DNA insertions carry a CaMV 35S promoter upstream of the T-DNA left border that drives transcription through the insert junctions, we also examined whether P5CS1 sequences located downstream of the various insertions are transcribed in the mutants. RT-PCR amplification of 3′ UTR region of P5CS1 (Figure 1b, primers p5c1A+B) detected less than 2% transcript in the p5cs1-1 mutant and an even lower level of truncated P5CS1 RNA in the p5cs1-4 knockout line. By contrast, levels of truncated P5CS1 mRNAs that were 25–35% of those of the salt-treated wild-type control were found in the p5cs1-2 and p5cs1-3 mutants in both the presence and absence of salt induction, indicating that the bulk of these truncated RNAs are transcribed from the CaMV 35S promoter. These data suggest that the p5cs1-2 and p5cs1-3 mutations allow the synthesis of truncated P5CS1 enzymes that lack the N-terminal γ-glutamyl kinase domain. Because the γ-glutamyl kinase activity is absolutely essential for the first step of proline biosynthesis, both the p5cs1-2 and p5cs1-3 mutations affected proline biosynthesis analogously to the strong knock-down allele p5cs1-1 and the p5cs1-4 null mutation, which inactivated the C-terminal glutamic-γ-semi-aldehyde dehydrogenase domain. Under standard growth conditions, all p5cs1 mutants showed wild-type development in both soil and sterile culture. In rosette leaves of 6-week-old soil-grown p5cs1 plants, the free proline content was 15–30% lower compared to wild-type, whereas in flowers this difference was 35–45% (Figure 1c). The observed decrease in proline content of p5cs1 mutants indicated the contribution of P5CS1 to proline synthesis under normal growth conditions in sterile culture, and showed that P5CS2 maintains a sufficiently high level proline biosynthesis without limiting growth and fertility. To determine the effects of p5cs1 mutations on salt-induced proline accumulation, in vitro-cultured 3-week-old wild-type and p5cs1 seedlings were exposed to 200 mm NaCl treatment for 48 h (Figure 1d). Compared to untreated controls, the free proline levels increased sevenfold in wild-type during salt treatment, but only two- to threefold in the p5cs1 mutants. This striking difference clearly shows that the deficiency of P5CS1 was not fully compensated by P5CS2, and indicates that P5CS1 plays a critical role in the regulation of proline accumulation during salt stress. To examine how changes in proline accumulation correlate with alterations in water relations, wild-type and p5cs1 plants were exposed to drought treatment by stopping irrigation for 10 days. While soil humidity decreased from 60% to 10% during this period, the concentration of free proline in the rosette leaves of wild-type plants increased up to eightfold, compared to an increase of no more than twofold in the p5cs1 mutants (Figure 1e). This indicated that, similarly to salt stress, P5CS1 also plays a key role in drought-induced accumulation of proline. The drought treatment used resulted in a reduction of relative water content (RWC) from 85% to 67% in wild-type plants, compared to a decrease in RWC from 74–78% to 50–60% in the p5cs1 mutants (Figure 1f). The greater than fivefold reduction of proline accumulation thus correlated with a decrease in RWC of only 10–15% in the p5cs1 mutants. The fact that water loss in detached leaves was similar in wild-type and p5cs1 mutants (data not shown) supported the conclusion that proline accumulation is not a critical factor in complex control of RWC. To assess the effects of p5cs1 mutations on plant growth under salt stress, we performed comparative assays of germination, root elongation, seedling growth and induction of chlorosis using wild-type and p5cs1 plants grown either in the absence or presence of 150 or 200 mm NaCl. Germination rates of wild-type and p5cs1 seeds were similar under all conditions tested (data not shown), indicating that P5CS1 plays no role in the control of seed germination. Whereas root elongation rates of wild-type and p5cs1 seedlings were comparable without salt treatment, the p5cs1 mutants displayed 25% and 50% reduction of root growth rate compared to wild-type in the presence of 150 and 200 mm NaCl, respectively (Figure 2a,b). The p5cs1 mutants also displayed lower salt tolerance in other assays monitoring leaf development, fresh weight accumulation and plant survival (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Enhanced bleaching and subsequent death of p5cs1 mutants was observed in the presence of 200 mm NaCl, which affected but did not prevent the growth and survival of wild-type seedlings (Figure 2c). Induction of leaf chlorosis in the salt-treated p5cs1 mutants suggested an increase of oxidative damage by enhanced generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Hence, we compared ROS levels in leaves of salt-treated wild-type and p5cs1 plants using a histochemical assay with 3,3′-diaminobenzidine (DAB). Leaves of wild-type and p5cs1 mutant plants grown without salt showed comparable levels of DAB staining in vascular tissues. Upon 24 h exposure to 150 mm NaCl, DAB-staining was also detected in mesophyll tissues of leaf blades and showed higher intensity in the p5cs1 mutants than in wild-type, indicating enhanced hydrogen peroxide accumulation (Figure 2d). To confirm that salt hypersensitivity of p5cs1 mutants indeed reflected insufficient proline accumulation, we measured the salt-mediated inhibition of root elongation of p5cs1 mutants grown in either the absence or presence of externally provided proline. Remarkably, addition of 10 mm proline to the medium alleviated the salt-dependent root growth defects of p5cs1 mutants (Figure 2e), indicating a causal relationship between reduced salt tolerance and impaired proline accumulation. To prove unequivocally that the salt hypersensitivity phenotype was caused by the p5cs1 mutations, we performed genetic complementation assays. The coding sequence of green fluorescent protein (GFP) was inserted into the wild-type P5CS1 gene by precisely replacing its stop codon (Figure S1), and the resulting P5CS1–GFP reporter gene was introduced by the Agrobacterium binary vector pPCV812 into the homozygous p5cs1 mutants. Salt-dependent proline accumulation in the GFP-expressing p5cs1 mutants reached 80–90% of control wild-type levels (Figure 2f). The salt sensitivity of genetically complemented homozygous p5cs1 mutants (shown for p5cs1-4 in Figure 2g) was similar to that of wild-type, indicating correct regulation of the P5CS1–GFP construct. In comparison to wild-type, prolonged salt stress led to enhanced chlorosis of p5cs1 mutants. Whereas total leaf chlorophyll contents of wild-type and p5cs1 plants were similar on salt-free medium, the chlorophyll content following 24 h treatment with 150 mm NaCl was reduced by 15–20% in wild-type compared to a 30–40% reduction in p5cs1 plants. Treatment with 200 mm NaCl decreased the chlorophyll content by 30% in wild-type compared to a 50–60% reduction in p5cs1 plants (Figure 3a). The significant increase in chlorophyll degradation provided an indication of enhanced oxidative damage in the salt-stressed p5cs1 mutants. Quantitative measurement of DAB reactions in leaves indicated an increase in hydrogen peroxide accumulation of about twofold in the p5cs1 mutants compared to wild-type in response to treatment with 200 mm NaCl for 24 h (Figure 3b). Because lipid peroxidation is a direct consequence of ROS accumulation, we monitored the levels of malonaldehyde (i.e. the end product of lipid peroxidation) in leaves of control and salt-treated plants. Lipid peroxidation was similar in non-stressed p5cs1 and wild-type, and did not increase significantly in salt-stressed wild-type plants. However, in the p5cs1 mutants, malonaldehyde levels were twofold higher than in wild-type plants upon 24 h treatment with 200 mm NaCl (Figure 3c), correlating with the observed increase in hydrogen peroxide levels. Enhancement of lipid peroxidation suggests considerable oxidative membrane damage during stress in the p5cs1 mutants. [[FIGURE]] ROS levels are controlled by a well-defined detoxification system, which involves a number of enzymes that reduce the amount of reactive oxygen species. To monitor ROS detoxification, the activities of catalase (CAT), superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione-S-transferase (GST), glutathione reductase (GR), ascorbate peroxidase (APX) and guaiacol peroxidase (GPX) were measured in leaves of wild-type and p5cs1 plants that were subjected to 200 mm NaCl treatment for 24 h in hydroponic cultures. Catalase eliminates hydrogen peroxide and is one of the most important detoxifying enzymes during oxidative stress. On average, an 80–120% increase in catalase activity was detected in the p5cs1 mutants compared to a 40% increase in wild-type during salt stress (Figure 4a). GPX activities showed only marginal enhancement in the mutants (Figure 4b), whereas SOD activities, mediating the reduction of superoxide radicals to hydrogen peroxide, were slightly reduced in p5cs1 plants (Figure 4c). The GST, GR and APX enzymes, which act in the stress-regulated glutathione–ascorbate cycle showed 40–60% higher activities in wild-type, compared to an increase of only 10–20% in the salt-treated p5cs1 mutants, indicating that this detoxifying pathway did not function to such an extent in the mutants (Figure 4d–f). Control Northern hybridizations did not reveal alterations in transcript levels of CAT2 and APX genes in the p5cs1 mutants (data not shown), suggesting that the observed changes in these enzyme activities did not reflect alterations at the level of transcription. [[FIGURE]] To determine the effects of P5CS2 knockout mutations, we have characterized two p5cs2 (At3g55610) alleles identified in the GABI-KAT and FLAG insertion mutant collections (Figure 5a). The p5cs2-1 allele (GABI_452G01) carries a single T-DNA insertion in intron 18 (4063 bp downstream of ATG), whereas the p5cs2-2 allele (FLAG_139H07) contains a T-DNA tag disrupting exon 2 (804 bp downstream of ATG; see Appendix S1). PCR screening for homozygous lines in the segregating T2 and T3 mutant families failed to identify homozygous p5cs2-1 and p5cs2-2 progeny. In the presence of sulfadiazine (GABI line) or kanamycin (FLAG line), the hemizygous T3 families showed 2:1 segregation of resistant versus sensitive seedlings. Inspection of siliques of hemizygous p5cs2-1 and p5cs2-2 mutants revealed 3:1 segregation of wild-type and collapsed seeds (Figure 5b). In immature green siliques, a similar segregation of green and white seeds was observed. Between days 7 and 10 after pollination, depending on the humidity levels, all white seeds collapsed and turned brown rapidly (Figure 5c). Examination of cleared seeds revealed that embryo development was considerably delayed in white mutant seeds. After reaching either torpedo stage at 40–50% humidity or U-shape stage at 70–80% humidity, the embryos in white seeds of both p5cs2 insertion mutants ceased growing and aborted (Figure 5d,e). [[FIGURE]] When dissected aseptically and cultured in the presence of 10 mm proline, both green and white seeds germinated to viable seedlings. In the absence of proline, however, white seeds either did not germinate or produced arrested white seedlings. About 30% of seedlings derived from white seeds germinating in the presence of proline displayed developmental abnormalities, such as aberrantly shaped cotyledons and leaves (Figure 5f). PCR genotyping revealed that seedlings obtained from white seeds were homozygous for the p5cs2-1 and p5cs2-2 mutations, whereas seedlings from green seeds corresponded to either hemizygous or wild-type progeny (Figure 5g). RT-PCR analysis of RNA templates isolated from single leaves of homozygous p5cs2-1 and p5cs2-2 seedlings did not detect P5CS2 transcript (Figure 5h), indicating that T-DNA insertions in both exon 2 and intron 16 caused null mutations of the P5CS2 gene. The embryo-lethal phenotype of these mutations suggests that the loss of P5CS2 function results in proline auxotrophy during embryogenesis. The p5cs2 mutations also affected plant development after germination. When grown on proline-containing medium, the mutants showed extremely slow growth, and upon transfer into soil they grew as dwarfs with aberrant rosettes for 1–2 weeks, but ultimately decayed even when treated with proline under optimal growth conditions. As described for the p5cs1 mutants, we also performed genetic complementation of the p5cs2-1 mutation with a P5CS2–GFP reporter gene. Hemizygous p5cs2-1/+ plants were transformed with Agrobacterium vector pPCV812 carrying a P5CS2 gene in which the stop codon was replaced with a precise fusion of GFP coding sequences (see Experimental procedures and Figure S1). T2 families of transformed lines were screened for GFP expression and segregation of homozygous p5cs2 mutant plants (Figure 5i). The genetic complementation tests yielded homozygous p5cs2-1 lines expressing the P5CS2–GFP protein, and the phenotype and viability of these lines were similar to wild-type plants. This result confirmed that the p5cs2-1 mutation was indeed responsible for the observed embryo and seedling lethality traits, and indicated that the P5CS2–GFP protein conferred restoration of the mutant to the wild-type phenotype. Interestingly, in one of the transformed families (P5CS2–GFP/5), all T2 offspring were homozygous for the p5cs2-1 mutation (Figure 5i), suggesting that Agrobacterium transformation took place before fertilization of the mutant ovule with a mutant pollen, generating a complemented homozygous embryo. Although the observed effects of p5cs1 mutations were consistent with the previously suggested regulatory role of P5CS1 in stress-induced proline synthesis, the lethality of the p5cs2 mutations predicted that P5CS2 might have a distinct function in embryo and seedling development. However, neither hybridization analyses of the organ-specific distribution of P5CS transcripts nor studies of spatial and temporal expression patterns of P5CS promoter–GUS reporter fusions provided sufficiently high resolution to confirm this model (CITATION). Therefore, we performed in situ hybridizations of embryo sections using gene-specific probes. These experiments revealed the presence of both P5CS1 and P5CS2 transcripts during all stages of embryogenesis (Figure 6a,b). Because all hybridizations were performed under identical conditions, differences in signal intensity indicated that the levels of P5CS1 transcript compared to P5CS2 were somewhat higher throughout embryo development, especially in heart and torpedo stages. Thus, abortion of p5cs2 mutant embryos could not be explained by down-regulation of P5CS1 transcription during embryogenesis. [[FIGURE]] Monitoring temporal and spatial expression patterns of the P5CS1–GFP and P5CS2–GFP constructs, in which the translation stop codons of P5CS genes were replaced by coding sequences of enhanced GFP (eGFP), demonstrated that both P5CS–GFP proteins were synthesized at all stages of embryogenesis. However, P5CS1–GFP displayed a remarkable dotted pattern in embryonic cells (Figure 6c,d), contrasting with the homogeneous cytoplasmic distribution of P5CS2–GFP (Figure 6e,f). High-resolution confocal laser scanning microscopy revealed that P5CS1–GFP was sequestered into subcellular bodies, which showed no co-localization with chloroplasts, mitochondria or nuclei (Figure 6g–k). The P5CS1 and P5CS2 proteins share 89% sequence identity, but none of the regions with amino acid exchanges were found to correspond to known secretion and sorting signals using various signal peptide predicting programmes (see Experimental procedures). Our experiments also excluded artificial vesicular targeting of P5CS1–GFP, because both P5CS–GFP gene fusions were generated by preserving all native transcription and translation regulatory elements. The aberrant leaf and rosette development of proline-rescued p5cs2 mutant seedlings suggested that the p5cs2 mutations also affect later stages of plant development. Therefore, we characterized spatial regulation of P5CS–GFP reporter constructs throughout the entire life cycle. In 5-day-old seedlings, only very low levels of P5CS1–GFP were observed in the cotyledons and hypocotyls. By contrast, P5CS2–GFP expression was detected in all seedling organs, at particularly high levels in shoot tips, and in vascular tissues of cotyledons and hypocotyls (Figure 7a). Remarkably, P5CS2–GFP appeared to be a specific early marker for leaf primordia in the apical meristems of seedlings (Figure 7b,c) and auxiliary leaf buds of rosettes (Figure 7d), in which P5CS1–GFP was not expressed. In inflorescence meristems, flower primordia and flower buds, P5CS2–GFP expression generally exceeded the levels of P5CS1–GFP (Figure 7e). In flowers, P5CS1–GFP was present only in anthers, while P5CS2–GFP expression could also be detected in anthers, stamen filaments, sepals and petals (Figure 7f). P5CS1–GFP showed specific expression in tissue layers carrying pollen mother cells in the stamens, as well as in pollen grains. In comparison, P5CS2–GFP was only expressed in the vegetative cells of stamens (Figure 7g,h). [[FIGURE]] In whole-mount roots, confocal imaging of P5CS1–GFP detected only dotted patterns of subcellular bodies, whereas P5CS2–GFP showed cytoplasmic localization accompanied by the appearance of some dots in few cells of the root elongation zone (Figure 7i,k). In response to treatment of seedlings with 200 mm NaCl for 24 h in 0.5 MS medium, the number and fluorescence intensity of P5CS1–GFP dots significantly increased in the root elongation and root hair differentiation zones (Figure 7i,j). In root tips, where P5CS1–GFP showed very low level of expression, some increase in P5CS2–GFP levels was observed upon salt treatment, whereas in the root elongation zone P5CS2–GFP levels were low and apparently unaffected by salt treatment (Figure 7k,l). Immunolocalization of P5CS–GFP proteins in root cross-sections by indirect immunofluorescence detection of anti-GFP antibody using an FITC-labelled second antibody identified the P5CS1–GFP protein only in subcellular bodies within cells of the central cylinder, whereas the P5CS2–GFP protein showed clear cytoplasmic localization in all root cell types (Figure 7m,n). Co-staining of vacuoles with propidium iodide indicated that P5CS1–GFP is not localized in vacuoles, although accumulation of P5CS1–GFP in smaller pro-vacuoles could not be completely excluded (Figure 7m). In mesophyll cells of intact leaves, P5CS1–GFP and P5CS2–GFP showed similar distribution in both cytoplasm and chloroplasts (Figure 8a,c). Treatment of seedlings with 200 mm NaCl for 24 h led to the re-localization of over 80% of P5CS1–GFP signal into chloroplasts, whereas the fluorescence intensity of cytoplasmic P5CS2–GFP signal was only marginally reduced (i.e. by less then 20%) by the salt treatment (Figure 8b,d). Preparation of leaf mesophyll protoplasts by cell-wall digestion in a medium containing 0.4 m of mannitol resulted in quantitative re-localization of P5CS1–GFP into chloroplasts, as indicated by the orange colour of overlapping green GFP and chloroplast-derived red fluorescence signals (Figure 8e). By contrast, the chloroplasts were connected with threads of a thin green layer of cytoplasm in optical cross-sections of P5CS2–GFP-expressing protoplasts (Figure 8g). Higher-resolution images through the chloroplast layer confirmed exclusive chloroplast localization of P5CS1–GFP (Figure 8f), whereas orange images of chloroplasts surrounded by a green network of cytoplasm indicated high residual levels of P5CS2–GFP in the cytoplasm (Figure 8h). In conclusion, differential localization of P5CS1–GFP and P5CS2–GFP proteins in various cell types and at the subcellular level supported the genetic data showing that P5CS1 and P5CS2 perform non-overlapping functions. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Plant growth conditions in sterile cultures and controlled growth chambers were as described previously (CITATION). Plant transformation was performed using the in planta Agrobacterium infiltration method (CITATION). Stress treatments were carried out with 3-week-old in vitro-cultured plants, which were incubated in 0.5 MS liquid medium containing either 150 or 200 mm NaCl by floating the seedlings with submerged roots on the surface of 10 ml of medium in 13 cm Petri dishes. Alternatively, 6-week-old plants grown in the growth chamber were transferred to hydroponic cultures in plastic boxes filled with Hoagland solution containing NaCl (CITATION). Gradual drought was imposed on 6-week-old soil-grown plants by withdrawing water for 10 days. T-DNA insertion mutants were identified in the SALK (CITATION), GABI-KAT (CITATION) and FLAG (http://dbsgap.versailles.inra.fr/publiclines) databases. Seed samples of T2 progeny provided by the stock centres were germinated under sterile conditions as described previously (CITATION). PCR screening for insertions was performed using gene-specific primer pairs and combinations of either 5′ or 3′ gene-specific primers with T-DNA end-specific primers (Table S1). Amplified fragments carrying plant DNA/T-DNA insert junctions were isolated and subjected to DNA sequencing as described previously (CITATION). The list of junction sequences and structures of T-DNA insertions in the mutant alleles are shown in Appendix S1. Green siliques of p5cs2-1/+ and p5cs2-2/+ plants were surface-sterilized and immature seeds were excised under sterile conditions using a stereo microscope. Seeds were cultured in 0.5 MS medium under standard culture conditions (CITATION). Embryos were dissected and prepared for microscopic observation as described previously (CITATION). Proline was added to the culture medium at 10 mm final concentration after sterilization. After 4 weeks, developing plants were transferred to fresh medium either with or without proline. Six-week-old plantlets were transferred to soil and either sprayed or watered with 10 mm proline solution. Detection of H2O2 in plant tissues was performed as described previously (CITATION). Leaves were detached and placed in a solution containing 1 mg ml−1 3,3′-diaminobenzidine (DAB; Sigma, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/) and incubated at pH 5.5 for 2 h at room temperature. Leaves were de-stained in hot ethanol (96%) for 10 min, and stored in 96% ethanol. H2O2 production was visualized as reddish-brown coloration, which was quantitatively measured using densitometric evaluation (NIH Image software, http://rsb.info.nih.gov/nih-image/). Malondialdehyde (MDA), an end product of lipid peroxidation, was measured using the thiobarbituric acid (TBA) test (CITATION). Leaf tissue (0.1 g) was homogenized in 0.5 ml of 20% w/v TCA solution. The cell extract was centrifuged at 15 000 g for 5 min at 4°C, and then 0.5 ml of 1% w/v TBA was added to the supernatant. The mixture was incubated in boiling water for 30 min, and the reaction was stopped on ice. Samples were cleared by centrifugation at 10 000 g for 5 min, and the absorbance of supernatant was measured at 535 and 730 nm. The amount of MDA–TBA complex (appearing as red pigment) was calculated according to the equation: X (%) = 100 × (OD535 − OD730). Chlorophyll content was determined according to the method described by CITATION. Leaf material (0.1 g) was homogenized in liquid nitrogen and treated with 100% acetone for 24 h. The homogenate was centrifuged at 15 000 g for 5 min, followed by addition of 80% acetone to the supernatant for 24 h. The optical density was measured using a Shimadzu spectrophotometer at 646.8 and 663.2 nm. The amount of chlorophyll was calculated according to the equations: Chl a = 12.25 OD663.2 − 2.79 OD646.8, Chl b = 21.5 OD646.8 − 5.1 OD663.2 and Chl a + b = 7.15 OD663.2 + 18.71 OD646.8. Free proline content was measured in either leaves or sterile seedlings by colorimetric assay according to the method described by CITATION and modified by CITATION. Leaf material (1 g) was homogenized at 4°C with 40 mg polyvinyl pyrrolydone (PVP) and 4 ml of 0.1 m phosphate buffer (pH 7.0), containing 0.1 mm EDTA. The homogenates were filtered, and centrifuged at 15 000 g for 10 min at 4°C, and the supernatants were used for measurement of enzyme activities. Soluble protein concentration in the supernatant was determined according to the method described by CITATION. Superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity was measured according to the method described by CITATION. Catalase activity was determined as described by CITATION. Glutathione reductase was measured by GSH-mediated 5,5′-dithio-bis(2-nitrobenzoic acid (DTNB) reduction (CITATION). Guaiacol peroxidase activity was assayed according to the method described by CITATION. Determination of glutathione-S-transferase (GST) activity was performed according to the method described by CITATION. Ascorbate peroxidase activity was assayed according to the method described by CITATION. Statistical analyses were performed using the anova program of SigmaStat 3.0 software (http://www.systat.com). Means and standard deviations were calculated from three or more independent experiments. Differences between means were determined using Duncan’s multiple range test. Actual water content (AWC) was expressed using the values obtained from fresh and dry weights of leaves, according to the equation: AWC (%) = 100 × (FW − DW)/FW. Dry weight was determined after drying the leaves to a constant weight at 80°C. Relative water content (RWC) was calculated by taking the turgid weight (TW) of plants into account: RWC (%) = 100 × (FW − DW)/(TW − DW). The leaves were imbibed in water for 24 h. Transcript levels were monitored by semi-quantitative RT-PCR. Total RNA was isolated from plant tissues using the Tri-reagent method (CITATION). cDNA templates were generated from DNase-treated RNA samples by reverse transcription using SuperScript™ II RNase H− reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com/). PCR reactions were performed in 50 μl volume, using 2 μl cDNA template and Dupla-Taq™ polymerase (Zenon Bio; http://www.zenonbio.hu), using the following protocol: one cycle of 94°C for 2 min, 20–35 cycles of 94°C for 30 sec, 60°C for 45 sec and 72°C for 1 min. Gene-specific primers p5cs1F and p5cs1R, or p5c1A and p5c1B, were used for detection of P5CS1 transcripts, while the P2for and P2rev primer pair was employed to amplify P5CS2-specific fragments (Table S1). Primers UBQ10for and UBQ10rev were used for amplification of cDNAs of ubiquitin 10, which served as an internal reference. Dissected developing seeds were fixed in 4% formaldehyde, embedded in wax, and sectioned (7 μm). Probes for in situ hybridization were labelled with digoxigenin-11-UTP. RNA probes were transcribed with T7 and T3 RNA polymerases according to the manufacturer’s instructions (Roche Applied Science; http://www.roche-applied-science.com). Probes to detect P5CS1 and P5CS2 transcripts were PCR-amplified from cDNA using primer pairs P5C1A-T3 and P5C1B-T7, and P5C2A-T3 and P5C2B-T7, respectively (Table S1). Paraffin was removed from the slides using Histoclear (Fisher Scientific; http://www.fishersci.com), and the sections were rehydrated through an ethanol series followed by proteinase K treatment (1 μg ml−1 in 100 mm Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 50 mm EDTA, 37°C for 30 min). The slides were rinsed with PBS three times and treated with 0.5% acetic anhydride in 0.1 m triethanolamine (pH 8.0) for 10 min, washed with PBS, and dehydrated through an ethanol series. Hybridization was performed in humidified box in buffer H containing 300 mm NaCl, 10 mm Tris-HCl (pH 6.8), 10 mm Na-phosphate, 5 mm EDTA, 50% formamide, 1× Denhardt’s, 10% dextran sulphate, and 1 mg ml−1 tRNA at 50°C. Post-hybridization washes were performed three times in 0.1× SSC for 30 min at 50°C. The hybridized probe–RNA was detected using an anti-DIG-alkaline phosphatase conjugate and the substrates NBT (nitroblue tetrazolium salt) and BCIP (5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl phosphate, toluidinium salt), which give a light-blue precipitate. Microscopic observations were performed using a Zeiss Axioskop 2 microscope (http://www.zeiss.com/). Immunohistochermical localization of P5CS1–GFP and P5CS2–GFP proteins was performed as described previously (CITATION). Briefly, root sections were treated with a monoclonal antibody against GFP, followed by detection using an FITC-conjugated secondary antibody. High-resolution images were taken using a Zeiss DSM 940 microscope. P5CS1–GFP and P5CS2–GFP gene constructs were generated by precise replacement of stop codons of P5CS1 and P5CS2 genes with coding sequences of the eGFP gene (Figure S1). The P5CS1 genomic DNA was cloned as an SpeI fragment (carrying a promoter sequence of 2464 bp), whereas the P5CS2 gene (including a promoter sequence of 2537 bp) was cloned as an XbaI fragment into pBluescript SK vector (CITATION). The translational stop codons of P5CS and P5CS2 were removed by in vitro mutagenesis (Clontech, http://www.clontech.com/), and replaced by ApaI restriction sites. The eGFP coding region with its stop codon was cloned into the generated ApaI sites, forming in-frame fusions with the P5CS genes. The P5CS1–GFP and P5CS2–GFP gene constructs were cloned into the pPCV812 vector and used for Agrobacterium-mediated transformation (CITATION). For GFP localization, leaf mesophyll protoplasts were isolated from P5CS–GFP-expressing transgenic plants according to the methid described by CITATION. In vivo fluorescence microscopic observations were made using Leica MZFLIII florescence (http://www.leica-microsystems.com) and Olympus confocal laser scanning microscopes (http://www.olympus.com). For comparison of spatial and temporal expression of GFP reporter constructs, over 20 progeny of at least five independent T2 families of wild-type, p5cs1-4 and p5cs2-1/+ mutants, expressing either P5CS1–GFP or P5CS2–GFP, respectively, were examined. Despite minor variations in expression levels, the expression patterns of P5CS1–GFP or P5CS2–GFP reporters in the independent transgenic lines were identical. Mitochondria were labelled by MitoTracker Orange (Invitrogen; http://www.invitrogen.com). For prediction of protein localization, we used the following online services: PSORT (http://psort.nibb.ac.jp/), TargetP (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/), Predotar (http://urgi.versailles.inra.fr/tools/predotar/), SubLoc (http://www.bioinfo.tsinghua.edu.cn/SubLoc/;), Plant-Ploc (http://chou.med.harvard.edu/bioinf/plant/), Protein Prowler (http://pprowler.imb.uq.edu.au/), and BaCelLo (http://gpcr.biocomp.unibo.it/bacello/pred.htm).
