!~ABS~! The vacuole occupies most of the volume of plant cells; thus, the tonoplast marker δ-tonoplast intrinsic protein-green fluorescent protein delineates cell shape, for example, in epidermis. This permits rapid identification of mutants. Using this strategy, we identified the cell shape phenotype-1 (csp-1) mutant in Arabidopsis thaliana. Beyond an absence of lobes in pavement cells, phenotypes included reduced trichome branching, altered leaf serration and stem branching, and increased stomatal density. This result from a point mutation in AtTPS6 encoding a conserved amino-terminal domain, thought to catalyze trehalose-6-phosphate synthesis and a carboxy-terminal phosphatase domain, is catalyzing a two-step conversion to trehalose. Expression of AtTPS6 in the Saccharomyces cerevisiae mutants tps1 (encoding a synthase domain) and tps2 (encoding synthase and phosphatase domains) indicates that AtTPS6 is an active trehalose synthase. AtTPS6 fully complemented defects in csp-1. Mutations in class I genes (AtTPS1–AtTPS4) indicate a role in regulating starch storage, resistance to drought, and inflorescence architecture. Class II genes (AtTPS5–AtTPS11) encode multifunctional enzymes having synthase and phosphatase activity. We show that class II AtTPS6 regulates plant architecture, shape of epidermal pavement cells, and branching of trichomes. Thus, beyond a role in development, we demonstrate that the class II gene AtTPS6 is important for controlling cellular morphogenesis.
!~RES~! Previously, we reported a microscopy-based screen to identify vacuole-defective mutants (CITATION) using tonoplast marker GFP fused to δ-tonoplast intrinsic protein (35S:GFP∷δ-TIP; CITATION). Laser-scanning confocal microscopy analysis of the cellular phenotype showed that the leaf pavement cells of the parental Arabidopsis line expressing GFP∷δ-TIP were typical in having pronounced lobes resulting in a jigsaw puzzle-like appearance, whereas pavement cells of csp-1 showed either no lobes or lobes that were much less pronounced (Fig. 1, A and B ). In addition to the loss of pavement cell lobes, the mutant displayed retarded development (see Fig. 2A ), which in part may have accounted for a decrease in the size of individual cells in the hypocotyls compared to the parental line (Fig. 1, C and D). Root cells also appeared to be reduced in size (Fig. 1, E and F). Scanning electron micrographs of leaves of the csp-1 mutant and the parental line also clearly highlighted the altered pavement cell shape (Fig. 1, G and H). Interestingly, the surface morphology of the mutant cells was more deeply ridged in appearance compared to the parental line. A trichome branching phenotype was obvious in the mutant (Fig. 1, I–K). In the mutant, 98% of trichomes (n = 10 seedlings; four to six leaves per seedling for a total of 842 trichomes) displayed two branches compared to the parental line in which 100% of trichomes had three branches (n = six seedlings; one to three leaves per seedling for a total of 191 trichomes). Quantification of individual trichome branches of csp-1 indicated that, although the mutant produced fewer branches, they were longer than those of the parental line (Table I ). The mutant displayed more stomates per unit area in csp-1 (mean of 295/mm2; n = 5 seedlings; three to four leaves per seedling) compared to the parental line (mean of 227/mm2; n = 5 seedlings; three to four leaves per seedling), indicating an impact on mechanisms controlling stomatal density. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Trichome branch length (μm) All measurements ± se; n = 15 trichomes for each measurement. For csp-1, branch 3 not observed. Parental line is Col-0 expressing GFP∷δ-TIP. Beyond changes in cellular morphology and stomatal density, the mutant displayed retarded development. The stature and morphology of both 10-d-old seedlings (Fig. 2A) and adult plants (Fig. 2, B and C) of csp-1 were significantly different from the parental line. The mutant exhibited slow growth at the seedling stage and rosette leaves of the mutant were greatly reduced in size and narrower than the parental line, with pronounced serration (Fig. 2D). Mutant leaves displayed strong epinasty (downward folding; Fig. 2, C and D). At bolting, the mutant showed a greater number of primary shoots than the parental line, each of which displayed reduced branching and delayed flowering, suggesting a reduction in apical dominance (data not shown). To understand the basis of the cellular and developmental phenotypes associated with csp-1, we initiated a map-based cloning strategy to identify the locus and clone the mutated gene. The mutant in ecotype Columbia (Col) was crossed to Landsberg erecta (Ler) to obtain segregating populations for mapping. Individuals from the F2 mapping population were scored for the mutant csp via confocal microscopy. We utilized a high-throughput screening method for scoring and screened more than 5,000 recombinants (see “Materials and Methods”). In our (see “Materials and Methods”). In our mapping population, csp-1 displayed segregation that was consistent with a recessive mutation (data not shown). To map the mutation, the ATH1 Arabidopsis expression array was used (CITATION). The array contained 22,500 probe sets representing 24,000 genes. Based on hybridization to a pool of 100 F2 recombinants and differences in allelic frequencies (CITATION), we predicted that csp-1 resided on the lower arm of chromosome 1 between 9.11 and 12.09 Mb with the maximal frequency at 10.60 Mb (Supplemental Fig. S1). We observed a minor statistical peak on chromosome 4 between 8.14 and 9.8 Mb; however, we confirmed the position of the csp-1 locus on chromosome 1 between the insertion-deletion markers nga280 (83.83 cM) and nga111 (115.55 cM). The position was also confirmed using simple sequence length polymorphism markers on chromosome 1 (CITATION; data not shown). The locus was located on bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) T23K23, which was 101.966 kb in length and contained 38 genes (Fig. 3A ). Sequence analyses of all 38 genes revealed a single mis-sense mutation at codon 160 of gene At1G68020.1. The gene was annotated in the Arabidopsis genome database as a glycosyl transferase family 20 protein/trehalose-phosphatase family protein similar to TPS of yeast. A substitution at nucleotide position 456 (A to C change) resulted in an Arg-to-Ser substitution in the protein (Fig. 3, B and C). Comparative analysis revealed that this Arg is a unique residue in TPS6 among class II TPS proteins (Supplemental Fig. S2). [[FIGURE]] The mutated gene in csp-1 encodes TPS6 (AtTPS6). It has an open reading frame of 2,103 nucleotides encoding a polypeptide of 701 amino acids. The full-length genomic region of 3,081 nucleotides encodes one exon and no introns. In the Arabidopsis genome, there are 11 AtTPS genes that are grouped into two classes based on the homology to the TPS proteins of yeast. Class I consists of four genes containing amino-terminal synthase domains and class II consists of seven genes possessing both amino-terminal synthase and carboxyl-terminal phosphatase domains. The AtTPS6 protein contains both domains and is thus a class II TPS most similar to yeast TPS2 (Fig. 4A ) and encodes both enzymatic activities necessary for trehalose biosynthesis. By comparison, AtTPS1 is a class I TPS (CITATION). Based on comparisons of the amino-terminal synthase and carboxyl-terminal phosphatase regions, class I and class II Arabidopsis TPS proteins fall into two distinct clades (Supplemental Fig. S3A). Gene expression of AtTPS6 was in all organs examined in Arabidopsis, including seedling, rosette leaf, cauline leaf, flower, root, and silique (Supplemental Fig. S3B). We also analyzed AtTPS6 mRNA accumulation in csp-1 and the transcript was detected in the mutant (Supplemental Fig. S3C), suggesting that the mutation altered protein function but did not alter gross gene expression. [[FIGURE]] Yeast TPS1 encodes a TPS, whereas TPS2 encodes a TPP. A tps1 mutant cannot grow on Glc as a carbon source because trehalose is necessary for the regulation of glycolysis by negatively regulating hexokinase II in vivo (CITATION). A tps2 deletion mutant in yeast showed reduced trehalose accumulation and an accompanying increase in thermosensitivity (CITATION). Because AtTPS6 possessed both synthase and phosphatase domains, we hypothesized that it would complement both tps1 and tps2 deletion mutant phenotypes in yeast if fully functional. Indeed, AtTPS6 complemented the Glc sensitivity of the synthase-deficient mutant tps1 and thermosensitivity of the phosphatase-deficient mutant tps2 of yeast (Fig. 4B). These results indicate that AtTPS6 is a multifunctional enzyme encoding functional synthase and phosphatase domains. The complete AtTPS6 coding region plus 5′ and 3′ regulatory regions (TPS6Pro∷TPS6) was amplified using gene-specific primers from genomic DNA and cloned into a modified pBIN19-GW binary vector. The construct was used to transform csp-1 mutant plants for complementation (CITATION). Several transgenic lines were isolated that were kanamycin resistant and displayed complete restoration of pavement cell morphology (Fig. 5A ) when compared to csp-1 (Fig. 1B) and similar to the parental line (Fig. 1A). [[FIGURE]] Also restored were normal leaf shape, growth (Fig. 5, B and C), and typical trichomes with three branches (Fig. 5D). These results indicate that AtTPS6 complemented the cell shape defects (pavement cells, trichomes) and overall growth phenotypes displayed by the csp-1 mutant. We concluded that AtTPS6 plays a significant role in modulating cellular shape as well as growth and development in Arabidopsis. A T-DNA insertion mutant (CITATION) from the SALK collection (csp-2) was characterized at the molecular and phenotypic levels. Genotyping of csp-2 using the left border primer LbB1 and a gene-specific reverse primer indicated the position of the insertion in AtTPS6 (Fig. 3B). The T-DNA insertion was in the exon at position 9 nucleotides within the synthase domain and abolished AtTPS6 mRNA accumulation as evidenced by semiquantitative RT-PCR analysis (data not shown). Pavement cells were stained with FM4-64. This dye, which stains the plasma membrane, endomembranes, and vacuole, will also bind to the cell wall conveniently outlining cell shape. This staining revealed a cell shape defect in csp-2 similar to that observed in csp-1 (Fig. 6A ; compare to Fig. 1B). Interestingly, the csp-2 loss-of-function mutant did not display other developmental leaf phenotypes, such as pronounced serration, epinasty, and reduced trichome branching, as observed in csp-1 (Fig. 6B; compare to Fig. 2C). This indicated that control of cell shape was separable genetically from developmental defects such as leaf morphology and expression of the mutated gene (csp-1) and complete loss of function (csp-2) resulted in cell shape defects. Loss-of-function mutants in the remaining class II AtTPS genes AtTPS5, AtTPS7, AtTPS8, AtTPS9, AtTPS10, and AtTPS11 were also stained with FM4-64 and revealed no cell shape defects as observed in the AtTPS6 mutants csp-1 and csp-2 (data not shown). These results indicate that AtTPS6 is unique among class II AtTPS genes in affecting the cell shape of leaf pavement cells. [[FIGURE]] To further investigate the role of AtTPS6 in development, the coding region of AtTPS6 was overexpressed in Arabidopsis under the control of the constitutive 35S promoter. The overexpression lines displayed an increase in AtTPS6 transcript as detected by multiplex semiquantitative RT-PCR (data not shown). The phenotypes displayed by eight independent lines overexpressing AtTPS6 were striking and related to those displayed by csp-1. For example, at 3 weeks old, the rosette leaves and overall stature of the plants were significantly greater than those of the parental line (Figs. 6C and 2B, respectively). In addition to these developmental phenotypes, the trichomes of all overexpression lines displayed an increased number of trichome branches, ranging from four to six compared to the parent, which displayed three branches (Figs. 6D and 1K, respectively). The independent lines displayed a range of related phenotypes correlated with their levels of AtTPS6 expression. We classified these lines into two general categories. For lines in category 1, the greatest amount of transcript was detected (Fig. 6E, inset), as well as a dramatic increase in the overall size and number of rosette leaves (Fig. 6E) and fewer bolts, suggesting an increase in apical dominance. Among category 2 overexpression lines, there was a more modest increase in expression (Fig. 6F, inset), resulting in fewer leaves, each having reduced serration compared to category 1 mutants. Overall growth was also slower than that of the category 1 lines (Fig. 6F). There was an apparent reduction in apical dominance as evidenced by increased primary shoots emerging from the rosette. There was also an increased number of flowering branches with altered leaf phyllotaxy compared to the parental line (data not shown). Overall, these results indicate that AtTPS6 plays a role not only in establishing cellular morphology, but also in the overall growth and morphology of the organism.
!~MM~! T-DNA insertion mutant seed was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) ecotype Col, csp-1 mutant (35S:δ-TIP∷GFP in Col background), and other mutants were grown on one-half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium containing 1% Suc and 0.8% phytoagar. Plates were placed in a 4°C chamber for 2 d in the dark for vernalization and allowed to germinate and grow at 22°C under long-day conditions (18 h light/6 h dark). After 7 d, seedlings were transplanted to Promix and grown under the same long-day conditions. For the F2 segregating population, seeds were germinated on thin Universal lids (Costar) on one-half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium with 1% Suc and 0.6% phytoagar and grown further at 22°C under long-day conditions in a growth chamber with the seedlings positioned vertically. For all crosses, floral buds of csp-1 (Col background) were dissected and pollinated using mature pollen from Ler flowers. Arabidopsis ecotype Col plants were transformed with all constructs using Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 (pMP90) by the floral-dip method (CITATION). The csp-1 mutant was crossed to Ler ecotype. F1 heterozygotes from this cross were self-fertilized to generate an F2 mapping population. F2 recombinants were screened on an automated BD-Biosciences Pathway confocal microscope. Leaf tissue of equal amounts was collected from each of 100 F2 mutant and wild-type plants from a segregating population using a leaf punch and frozen in liquid nitrogen. Tissues were ground to a fine powder and genomic DNA was isolated using DNAzol (Invitrogen). Three hundred nanograms of genomic DNA from each pool were randomly biotin labeled by using the Bioprime DNA labeling system (Invitrogen). The fragmented biotin-labeled DNA (approximately 25–50 bp) was purified using a Qiagen gel purification system and the resulting probe was used for hybridizing to the Arabidopsis genome array ATH1 (24K). Microarray hybridization, staining, washing, and scanning were performed according to the manufacturer (Affymetrix). Scanned cell files were read and analyzed by the freely available statistical package R (http://www.r-project.org; CITATION) according to CITATION. Fine mapping was performed on individual F2 recombinants using simple sequence length polymorphism and BAC markers. PCR reactions were performed and products were resolved on 4% Metaphor agarose gels stained with ethidium bromide. Primers were designed for all genes on BAC T23K23 and genes were PCR amplified by using genomic DNA from the csp-1 mutant as a template. PCR products were sequenced with overlapping primers every 500 bp. Sequencing, contig assembly, and mutation search were performed with PHRED/PHRAP and CONSED (http://www.phrap.org/phredphrapconsed.html). Tissues from roots, stems, rosette leaves, cauline leaves, flowers, and siliques of mature Arabidopsis ecotype Col were frozen in liquid nitrogen and ground to fine powder. RNA was isolated using the Qiagen plant RNA preparation kit according to manufacturer. One-step RT-PCR was performed using 0.5 μg of total RNA template using the Platinum quantitative RT-PCR ThermoScript one-step system (Invitrogen). Gene-specific primers of TPS6 were as follows:TPS6 F, 5′-ATGGTTTCAAGATCGTATTCA-3′; and TPS6 R, 5′-GTCCAATGTATCCTCTCTTAG-3′. As an endogenous standard for relative RT-PCR, 18S ribosomal RNA was amplified using Universal 18S rRNA primers in a 2:8 ratio of 18S rRNA primers to competimers (Ambion). The template RNA for 18S rRNA control reactions consisted of 0.5 μg of total RNA from mouse liver (Ambion). RT was performed at 50°C for 20 min, after which PCR was performed in a total reaction volume of 50 μL using PCR cycling conditions of 95°C, 5 min; 94°C, 15 s; 65°C, 30 s; 72°C, 1 min; and 72°C, 4 min for 32 cycles. AtTPS6 was PCR amplified from genomic DNA of Arabidopsis ecotype Col using the following primers: TPS6F, 5′-GCTCGATCCACCTAGGCTTGCCTGTTTCGAGCTATGAG-3′; and TPS6R, 5′-CGTAGCGAGACCACAGGAAACAGGAGTGATCTGGTCTG-3′. The amplified PCR fragment was cloned into the pDONOR207 vector after confirming the sequence; the insert was integrated into the pBIN-GW binary vector and used to transform csp-1 as described above. T1 seeds were germinated on Murashige and Skoog with 50 μg/mL kanamycin. Kanamycin-resistant seedlings were transplanted into Promix pots and propagated to T2 generation. Selected transgenic lines resistant to kanamycin were grown to the T3 generation to obtain homozygous lines. The AtTPS6 coding region was PCR amplified using gene-specific primers from genomic DNA of Arabidopsis ecotype Col. Primers were TPS6-BamHI, 5′-CAGCTGGATCCATGGTTTCAAGATCGTATTCAAATCTG-3′; and TPS6-XbaI, 5′-TGTACTCTAGATTAGCCTGTGTAGTAGTTAGATGGAGC-3′. The amplified PCR fragment was digested with appropriate restriction enzymes and purified and cloned into the modified plant binary vector pZP111 containing a 35S promoter with a translational enhancer (Ω-leader sequence). The construct was transformed and independent kanamycin-resistant lines were isolated. The coding region of AtTPS6 was PCR amplified from Arabidopsis genomic DNA using a primer with 5′ KpnI and 3′ XhoI restriction sites for compatible restriction sites for cloning into the yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) expression vector pYES2. The primers were: TPS6-KpnI, 5′-GGGGGTACCATGGTTTCAAGATCGTATTCAAATCTG-3′; and TPS6-XhoI, 5′-GGGCTCGATTAGCCTGTGTAGTAGTTAGATGGAGC-3′. PCR-amplified products were digested with KpnI and XhoI and ligated to KpnI-XhoI-digested pYES2. The AtTPS6 construct in pYES2 was used to transform the yeast tps1 and tps2 deletion mutants (Operon Biosystems). Ten-day-old seedlings of the parental line, mutants, and overexpression lines were examined on a Leica SP2 confocal microscope, using 20×/0.7NA and 63×/1.2NA HC PL Apo water objectives. The 488-nm argon laser line was used for excitation of GFP and emission was collected between 500 and 600 nm. FM4-64 was excited at 488 nm and detected between 600 and 750 nm. For mapping, the BD Biosciences Pathway HT imaging system was used with a UAPO/340 20×/0.75NA dry objective and custom filter wheels containing the Semrock Brightline GFP-3035B filter set with 472/30-nm excitation and 520/35-nm emission. Parental and mutant leaves were flash frozen by immersion in 1,1-difluoroethane in a liquid nitrogen-cooled mortar, then immediately transferred to the scanning electron microscope vacuum chamber for scanning at 15 keV using back-scattered electron detection on a Hitachi TM-1000 tabletop scanning electron microscope. Trichome branch lengths were measured from scanning electron micrographs using Imaging Research MCID Elite software. The lengths and widths of parental and csp-1 mutant hypocotyl cells were tabulated from cells using 20× Leica confocal micrographs. For the parental line, 168 cells were examined and for the csp-1 mutant 209 cells were examined from independent seedlings. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers At1g68020 (AtTPS6), csp-2 (SALK T-DNA insertion mutant SALK_150965.55.25.x). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Mapping of the csp-1 locus using expression array bulk segregant analysis. Supplemental Figure S2. Multiple alignments of AtTPS family members in Arabidopsis. Supplemental Figure S3. Class I and class II TPSs in Arabidopsis are distinct.
