!~ABS~! Xylan, cellulose and lignin are the three major components of secondary walls in wood, and elucidation of the biosynthetic pathway of xylan is of importance for potential modification of secondary wall composition to produce wood with improved properties. So far, three Arabidopsis glycosyltransferases, FRAGILE FIBER8, IRREGULAR XYLEM8 and IRREGULAR XYLEM9, have been implicated in glucuronoxylan (GX) biosynthesis. In this study, we demonstrate that PARVUS, which is a member of family GT8, is required for the biosynthesis of the tetrasaccharide primer sequence, β-d-Xyl-(1 → 3)-α-l-Rha-(1 → 2)-α-d-GalA-(1 → 4)-d-Xyl, located at the reducing end of GX. The PARVUS gene is expressed during secondary wall biosynthesis in fibers and vessels, and its encoded protein is predominantly localized in the endoplasmic reticulum. Mutation of the PARVUS gene leads to a drastic reduction in secondary wall thickening and GX content. Structural analysis of GX using 1H-nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy revealed that the parvus mutation causes a loss of the tetrasaccharide primer sequence at the reducing end of GX and an absence of glucuronic acid side chains in GX. Activity assay showed that the xylan xylosyltransferase and glucuronyltransferase activities were not affected in the parvus mutant. Together, these findings implicate a possible role for PARVUS in the initiation of biosynthesis of the GX tetrasaccharide primer sequence and provide novel insights into the mechanisms of GX biosynthesis.
!~RES~! The interfascicular fibers of Arabidopsis inflorescence stems deposit a large amount of cellulose, xylan and lignin in secondary walls, which have been used as a model for studying genes involved in secondary wall biosynthesis (Zhong et al. CITATION, Zhong et al. CITATION, Pena et al. CITATION). To find genes responsible for xylan biosynthesis, we analyzed GTs that were up-regulated during secondary wall thickening using interfascicular fibers isolated by laser microdissection (Zhong et al. CITATION). In this report, we studied the function of a putative GT gene, At1g19300, which was induced during secondary wall thickening of fibers. The At1g19300 gene is a member of GT family 8 (Coutinho et al. CITATION) and was previously named PARVUS/GLZ1/GATL1 (Lao et al. CITATION, Shao et al. CITATION, Sterling et al. CITATION) and proposed to be involved in pectin biosynthesis (Lao et al. CITATION, Lerouxel et al. CITATION). We have found that the PARVUS gene is highly expressed in fibers and xylem cells undergoing secondary wall thickening, but not in parenchymatous pith cells (Fig. 1A). At the organ level, the PARVUS gene is predominantly expressed in stems in which abundant secondary wall-containing fibers and xylem cells are produced (Fig. 1B). In addition, the expression of the PARVUS gene was shown to be co-induced with three known xylan biosynthetic genes, FRA8, IRX8 and IRX9, by overexpression of MYB46 (Fig. 1C), which results in ectopic deposition of secondary walls (Zhong et al. CITATION). Moreover, its expression was down-regulated together with FRA8, IRX8 and IRX9 in SND1/NST1 RNA interference (RNAi) lines (Fig. 1D), which exhibit a loss of secondary wall thickening in fiber cells (Zhong et al. CITATION). Therefore, we reasoned that PARVUS is likely to be involved in the biosynthesis of a secondary wall component, such as GX, rather than pectin as previously proposed.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We next performed in situ mRNA localization to investigate the developmental expression pattern of the PARVUS gene in Arabidopsis stems and roots. In rapidly elongating internodes in which protoxylem is the only secondary wall-containing tissue present, the PARVUS mRNA signal was seen in the developing vessels of the protoxylem (Fig. 2A). At this stage, interfascicular fiber cells are undergoing rapid elongation and no secondary wall thickening is evident (Ye et al. CITATION). Concomitantly, no PARVUS mRNA signal was seen in interfascicular fiber cells (Fig. 2A). In non-elongating internodes in which secondary wall thickening is evident in interfascicular fibers, a strong PARVUS mRNA signal was detected in interfascicular fiber cells in addition to developing vessels and xylary fibers in metaxylem (Fig. 2B). The PARVUS mRNA signal was also observed in developing vessels and xylary fibers in secondary xylem of roots (Fig. 2C). The control stem section hybridized with the sense PARVUS RNA probe did not show any positive signals (Fig. 2D). These results demonstrate that the PARVUS gene is specifically expressed in cells undergoing secondary wall thickening, including interfascicular fibers, vessels and xylary fibers. The secondary wall-associated expression pattern of the PARVUS gene revealed in this study differs from that reported in a previous study, which employed the promoter–β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene analysis and showed its expression in almost all cell types in stems (Shao et al. CITATION). It is apparent that the promoter used in the expression study lacks some regulatory elements required for the endogenous gene expression.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The PARVUS protein is predicted to have a hydrophobic signal peptide sequence at the N-terminus (Fig. 3A; Lao et al. CITATION) by both protein hydropathy analysis and the prediction of protein sorting signals and localization sites program (PSORT; http://psort.ims.u-tokyo.ac.jp/). To examine the subcellular localization of the PARVUS protein, we co-expressed yellow fluorescent protein (YFP)-tagged PARVUS with a cyan fluorescent protein (CFP)-tagged ER marker and a Golgi marker in carrot (Daucus carota) protoplasts, and studied their co-localization patterns. It was found that the fluorescent signals of PARVUS–YFP displayed a network-like pattern, which clearly overlapped with the localization pattern of the ER marker (Fig. 3D–G). In contrast, the network-like signals of PARVUS–YFP displayed apparent differences from the punctate localization pattern of FRA8–CFP (Fig. 3H–K) that is known to be localized in the Golgi (Zhong et al. CITATION), although some overlap of signals was observed. The control protoplasts expressing YFP alone had fluorescent signals distributed throughout the cytoplasm (Fig. 3B, C). These results indicate that the PARVUS protein is predominantly associated with the ER.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The finding that the PARVUS gene is specifically expressed in cells undergoing secondary wall thickening suggests that it is likely to be involved in secondary wall biosynthesis. To find out whether the PARVUS gene is essential for secondary wall thickening, we obtained a homozygous T-DNA insertion knockout line of PARVUS (SALK_045368; obtained from ABRC, Columbus, OH, USA) for examination of stem strength and wall thickness of fibers and vessels. The homozygous T-DNA knockout plants were smaller in rosette size and their stems exhibited a dwarf phenotype, which is identical to the previously reported observations for parvus mutations (Lao et al. CITATION, Shao et al. CITATION). It was found that mutation of the PARVUS gene led to a severe reduction in the mechanical strength of stems compared with the wild type (Fig. 4A). Examination of fibers and vessels in stems and roots revealed that the wall thickness of fibers and vessels in the parvus mutant was drastically decreased compared with the wild type (Fig. 4B–G). It was apparent that the vessels in the parvus mutant exhibited a collapsed phenotype, which is most probably caused by the reduced wall strength as observed in other known secondary wall-defective mutants (Brown et al. CITATION, Zhong et al. CITATION, Persson et al. CITATION). Transmission electron microscopy showed that the wall thickness of interfascicular fibers, vessels and xylary fibers was reduced by 50–66% compared with the wild type (Fig. 5; Table 1). These results suggest that PARVUS is required for normal secondary wall thickening in both fibers and vessels.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The observation that PARVUS is associated with the ER indicates that it is involved in the biosynthesis of a non-cellulosic polysaccharide. Because the major non-cellulosic polysaccharide in secondary walls of Arabidopsis fibers and vessels is GX, we postulate that PARVUS might play a role in GX biosynthesis. To investigate which secondary wall components are affected by the parvus mutation, we first analyzed the composition of total cell walls isolated from stems and found that the amount of xylose and glucose, which are the respective main components of GX and cellulose, was reduced by 46.7 and 23.5%, respectively, compared with the wild type (Table 2). No significant alterations were seen in the amount of other cell wall neutral sugars, including mannose, galactose, arabinose, rhamnose and fucose. Further composition analysis of 1 and 4 N KOH extracts of cell walls from stems of wild type and parvus showed that the most drastically reduced sugar content was xylose (Table 3). Because the xylose in 1 and 4 N KOH extracts of Arabidopsis stems comes primarily from GX (Zhong et al. CITATION), these findings strongly suggest that PARVUS is involved in GX biosynthesis. The reduction in cellulose content in the parvus mutant is probably due to an indirect effect, which has also been observed in three other known xylan-deficient mutants (Brown et al. CITATION, Zhong et al. CITATION). The parvus mutation has previously been shown to reduce the xylose content in leaf cell walls, which was attributed to an indirect effect due to its presumed role in pectin biosynthesis (Lao et al. CITATION). Because PARVUS is a GT believed to be involved in polysaccharide synthesis but is unlikely to be involved in lignin synthesis, we did not analyze the possible effect of its mutation on lignin alterations.  To substantiate the role of PARVUS in GX biosynthesis, we next examined the effect of the parvus mutation on GX deposition by immunolocalization using monoclonal antibody LM10 that binds to 4-O-methylglucuronoxylan (McCartney et al. CITATION). Immunolabeling of wild-type stem and root sections showed intensive fluorescent signals in the walls of interfascicular fibers and xylem cells including vessels and xylary fibers (Fig. 6A, D), all of which are known to contain abundant GX in secondary walls. In contrast, almost no fluorescent signals were observed in the secondary wall-containing tissues in parvus stems and roots (Fig. 6B, E). Expression of the wild-type PARVUS gene in the parvus mutant restored the xylan signals to the wild-type level in all secondary wall-containing tissues in stems and roots (Fig. 6C, F). These results demonstrate that PARVUS is required for the normal biosynthesis and deposition of GX in secondary walls of fibers and vessels.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To determine whether mutation of the PARVUS gene affects the GX structure, the KOH-solubilized GX from stems of wild type and the parvus mutant was digested with endoxylanase, and the acidic xylooligosaccharides produced by the digestion were analyzed by matrix-assisted laser-desorption ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS). MALDI-TOF MS of the wild-type acidic xylooligosacchrides revealed two major ion peaks [M + Na]+ at mass-to-charge ratios (m/z) of 743 and 759 (Fig. 7A), which are attributed to xylooligosaccharides with four Xyl residues substituted with one non-methylated α-d-GlcA or one 4-O-Me-α-d-GlcA, respectively (Fig. 7C; Zhong et al. CITATION). The xylooligosaccharides bearing 4-O-Me-α-d-GlcA side chains are more abundant than those bearing α-d-GlcA side chains, which is a typical pattern observed in the GX of wild-type Arabidopsis (Zhong et al. CITATION). In contrast, the MALDI-TOF spectrum of parvus acidic xylooligosacchrides contains only the ion peak at an m/z of 759 (Fig. 7B). The parvus mutant lacked the ion with an m/z of 743 that is attributed to xylotetrasaccharides substituted with one non-methylated α-d-GlcA. The MALDI-TOF analysis demonstrates that the parvus mutation results in a loss of α-d-GlcA side chains in GX.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The Arabidopsis GX contains a tetrasaccharide primer sequence located at the reducing end, which differs from the GX backbone (Pena et al. CITATION). A previous study showed that FRA8 and IRX8 are required for the biosynthesis of this tetrasaccharide primer sequence (Pena et al. CITATION). To investigate further the roles of PARVUS in GX biosynthesis, we examined whether the parvus mutation affects the biosynthesis of the tetrasaccharide primer sequence using nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectrometry. The 1H-NMR spectrum of wild-type acidic xylooligosaccharides contained anomeric resonances of H1 and H5 of α-d-GlcA and H1 of branched β-d-Xyl residues bearing an α-d-GlcA residue, as well as H1 and H5 of 4-O-Me-α-d-GlcA residues and H1 of branched β-d-Xyl residues bearing a 4-O-Me-α-d-GlcA residue (Fig. 8A). The spectrum also includes resonances of H1 of α-Xyl and β-Xyl residues at the reducing ends of oligoxylosaccharides and H1 of unbranched β-Xyl residues (Fig. 8A). Furthermore, the resonances assigned to the tetrasaccharide primer sequence β-d-Xyl-(1 → 3)-α-l-Rha-(1 → 2)-α-d-GalA-(1 → 4)-d-Xyl that is located at the reducing end of GX was apparent in the spectrum of wild-type acidic xylooligosaccharides (Fig. 8A). These resonances include H1 of α-d-GalA, H1 of α-l-Rha, H1 of 3-linked β-d-Xyl, H4 of α-d-GalA and H2 of α-l-Rha. The observed 1H-NMR spectrum of wild-type acidic xylooligosaccharides is the same as that previously reported for wild-type Arabidopsis acidic xylooligosaccharides (Zhong et al. CITATION, Pena et al. CITATION). Examination of the 1H-NMR spectrum of parvus acidic xylooligosaccharides showed an apparent lack of resonances of H1 of α-d-GalA, H1 of α-l-Rha, H1 of 3-linked β-d-Xyl, H4 of α-d-GalA, and H2 of α-l-Rha, which are assigned to the tetrasaccharide primer sequence β-d-Xyl-(1 → 3)-α-l-Rha-(1 → 2)-α-d-GalA-(1 → 4)-d-Xyl that is located at the reducing end of GX (Fig. 8B). In addition, the resonances assigned to H1 and H5 of α-d-GlcA and H1 of branched β-d-Xyl residues bearing an α-d-GlcA residue were absent in parvus (Fig. 8B), which is consistent with the MALDI-TOF data (Fig. 7). These results demonstrate that the parvus mutation leads to a loss of the tetrasaccharide primer sequence at the GX reducing end, which suggests that PARVUS is involved in the biosynthesis of the tetrasaccharide primer sequence.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To investigate whether the reduced GX content and altered GX structure were caused by a reduction in XylT or GlcAT activities, we performed comparative analysis of their activities using microsomes isolated from wild-type and parvus stems. It was found that there was no decrease in the XylT and GlcAT activities in the parvus mutant; instead they were elevated compared with the wild type (Fig. 9). The elevation of XylT and GlcAT activities was also observed in three other xylan-deficient mutants, fra8, irx8 and irx9 (Lee et al. CITATION), probably due to a compensatory effect caused by these mutations. These results suggest that PARVUS is not required for the normal activities of xylan XylT and GlcAT.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! For analysis of gene expression in different cell types, interfascicular fiber cells, xylem cells and pith cells from inflorescence stems of 6-week-old Arabidopsis plants were isolated using the PALM microlaser system (PALM Microlaser Technologies, Bernried, Germany), and used for RNA isolation and amplification as described (Zhong et al. CITATION). For analysis of gene expression in different organs, total RNA was isolated from leaves, roots, stems and flowers of 6-week-old Arabidopsis plants using a Qiagen RNA isolation kit (Valencia, CA, USA). For quantitative PCR analysis, total RNA was treated with DNase I and used for first-strand cDNA synthesis. The first-strand cDNA was then used as template for real-time quantitative PCR analysis using gene-specific primers (5′-gtacacgtcacgcatcgaagag-3′ and 5′-agaatccaacgcgaacggcgtttg-3′) with the QuantiTect SYBR Green PCR Kit (Clontech, Mountain View, CA, USA). The relative mRNA levels were determined by normalizing the PCR threshold cycle number of each gene with that of the EF1α reference gene. The expression level of each gene in the wild-type control or in the sample with the lowest expression level was set to 1, and the data were the average of three replicates. Wild-type Arabidopsis inflorescence stems were used for in situ mRNA localization as described (McAbee et al. CITATION). Tissues were fixed in 2.5% formaldehyde and 0.5% glutaraldehyde, and then embedded in paraffin. Sections 10 μm thick were cut, mounted onto slides, and hybridized with digoxigenin-labeled PARVUS antisense RNA probe synthesized using the DIG RNA labeling mix (Roche, Mannheim, Germany). The PARVUS cDNA sequence used for RNA probe synthesis was PCR-amplified using gene-specific primers (5′-ccgacgcttcttccttacgag-3′ and 5′-ggtttaatcaaaccggcaaaaacc-3′) and this sequence shows no significant homology with other GTs. The hybridization and washing conditions used only allowed specific hybridization of the RNA probe to the PARVUS mRNA. The hybridization signals were detected with alkaline phosphatase-conjugated antibodies against digoxigenin and subsequent color development with alkaline phosphatase substrates. The co-localization of fluorescent protein-tagged PARVUS with the Golgi and ER markers was carried out in carrot protoplasts as described (Zhong et al. CITATION). The PARVUS cDNA was fused in-frame with the YFP cDNA and ligated between the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and the nopaline synthase terminator in a high copy vector. The fusion protein thus generated will have the YFP tag at the C-terminus. The PARVUS–YFP construct was co-transfected into carrot protoplasts together with CFP-tagged FRA8, a protein known to be localized in the Golgi (Zhong et al. CITATION), or with a CFP-tagged ER marker that was generated by fusing an Arabidopsis chitinase signal peptide to the N-terminus and an HDEL sequence to the C-terminus of CFP (Batoko et al. CITATION). After a 20 h incubation, the transfected protoplasts were examined for yellow and cyan fluorescent signals using a Leica TCs SP2 spectral confocal microscope. Basal stem internodes and roots of 10-week-old plants were fixed with 2% glutaraldehyde in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS), dehydrated through a gradient of ethanol, and then embedded in LR White Resin (Electron Microscopy Sciences, Fort Washington, PA, USA). Sections 1 μm thick were cut with a microtome and incubated with the LM10 monoclonal antibody, which recognizes glucuronoxylan (Plantprobes, Leeds, UK; McCartney et al. CITATION) and then with fluorescein isothiocyanate-conjugated secondary antibodies. The fluorescence-labeled sections were observed using a Leica TCs SP2 spectral confocal microscope. Images from single optical sections were collected and processed with Adobe Photoshop. The main inflorescences of 10-week-old wild type Arabidopsis and parvus plants were divided into three equal segments, which were measured for their breaking force using a digital force/length tester (Model DHT4-50; Larson System, Minneapolis, MN, USA). The breaking force (g) was calculated as the force needed to break apart a stem segment (Zhong et al. CITATION). Basal stem internodes and roots of 10-week-old plants were fixed with 2% glutaraldehyde in PBS at 4°C overnight. After fixation, tissues were post-fixed in 1% (v/v) OsO4, dehydrated through a gradient of ethanol, embedded in Spurr's resin (Electron Microscopy Sciences) and then subjected to sectioning with a microtome (Burk et al. CITATION). Sections 1 μm thick were stained with toluidine blue for light microscopy. For transmission electron microscopy, 85 nm thick sections were stained with uranyl acetate and lead citrate, and visualized using a Zeiss EM 902A transmission electron microscope. Inflorescence stems of 10-week-old plants were collected for cell wall isolation. Stems were ground into a fine powder in liquid nitrogen with a motar and pestle, and homogenized sequentially in 70% ethanol and 100% acetone with a polytron. The resulting cell wall residues were dried in a vacuum oven at 60°C. The wall preparations were subsequently subjected to sequential extractions with ammonium acetate (50 mM, 24 h), 1 N KOH containing 1% (w/v) NaBH4 (24 h), and 4 N KOH containing 1% (w/v) NaBH4 (24 h) according to Zhong et al. (CITATION). The 1 and 4 N KOH-soluble extracts were passed through a glass fiber filter, neutralized to pH 6.0 with glacial acetic acid, dialyzed in a dialysis tubing (3,500 Mr cut-off; Fisher Scientific, Pittsburgh, PA, USA) against deionized water, and lyophilized. Cell wall sugars (as alditol acetates) were determined following the procedure described by Hoebler et al. (CITATION). Briefly, cell walls were incubated with 70% sulfuric acid at 37°C for 60 min followed by addition of inositol as the internal standard and dilution with water to 2 N sulfuric acid. After heating for 120 min at 100°C, the solution was cooled and treated with 25% ammonium solution. After reduction with sodium borohydride in dimethylsulfoxide, the solution was heated for 90 min at 40°C, followed by sequential treatment with glacial acetic acid, acetic anhydride, 1-methylimidazole, dichloromethane and water. The organic layer containing the alditol acetates of the hydrolyzed cell wall sugars was washed three times with water, and sugars were analyzed on an Agilent 6890N gas–liquid chromatograph (Wilmington, DE, USA) equipped with a 30 m × 0.25 mm (i.d.) silica capillary column DB 225 (Alltech Assoc., Deerfield, IL, USA). The 1 and 4 N KOH-solubilized wall preparations were digested with β-xylanase M6 (Megazyme, Wicklow, Ireland) for generation of xylooligosaccharides as described (Zhong et al. CITATION). The released xylooligosaccharides were desalted and separated by size exclusion chromatography on a Sephadex G-25 column (100 × 2.5 mm). Fractions containing the oligosaccharides were determined by the phenol–sulfuric assay (DuBois et al. CITATION), pooled and lyophilized. The acidic xylooligosaccharides released from β-xylanase digestion were analyzed using a MALDI-TOF mass spectrometer operated in the positive-ion mode with an accelerating voltage of 30 kV, an extractor voltage of 9 kV and a source pressure of approximately 8 × 10−7 torr. The aqueous sample was mixed (1 : 1, v/v) with the MALDI matrix (0.2 M 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 0.06 M 1-hydroxyisoquinoline in 50% acetonitrile) and dried on the stainless steel target plate. Spectra are the average of 100 laser shots. NMR spectra of the acidic xylooligosaccharides from β-xylanase digestion were recorded at 298 K with an NMR spectrometer. Chemical shifts were measured relative to internal acetone at δ 2.225. The 1H-NMR assignments were done by comparison with the NMR spectra data for Arabidopsis acidic xylooligosaccharides (Zhong et al. CITATION, Pena et al., CITATION) and further confirmed by two-dimensional gCOSY, HSQC, HMBC and TOCSY spectra. Microsomes were isolated and the GlcAT and XylT activities were determined following the procedures of Kuroyama and Tsumuraya (CITATION). For assay of GlcAT activity, 100 μg of microsomes were incubated with the reaction mixture (a total volume of 30 μl) containing 50 mM HEPES-KOH, pH 6.8, 5 mM MnCl2, 1 mM dithiothreitol (DTT), 0.5% Triton X-100, 0.2 μg μl−1 Xyl6 (Megazyme) and UDP-[14C]GlcA (0.1 μCi; American Radiolabeled Chemical, St Louis, MO, USA). For assay of XylT activity, 100 μg of microsomes were incubated with the reaction mixture (a total volume of 30 μl) containing 50 mM HEPES-KOH, pH 6.8, 5 mM MnCl2, 1 mM DTT, 0.5% Triton X-100, 0.1 mM cold UDP-Xyl (CarboSource Service, Athens, GA, USA; supported in part by NSF-RCN grant #0090281), 0.2 μg μl−1 Xyl6 and UDP-[14C]Xyl (0.1 μCi; American Radiolabeled Chemical). After incubation at 21°C for 20 min, the reactions were stopped by addition of the termination solution (0.3 M acetic acid containing 20 mM EGTA). The radiolabeled xylooligosaccharides were separated from UDP-[14C]Xyl or UDP-[14C]GlcA by paper chromatography according to Ishikawa et al. (CITATION), and the incorporation of radiolabeled Xyl or GlcA onto xylooligosaccharides was determined with a PerkinElmer scintillation counter (Waltham, MA, USA).
