!~ABS~! Cryptochrome blue-light receptors mediate many aspects of plant photomorphogenesis, such as suppression of hypocotyl elongation and promotion of cotyledon expansion and root growth. The cryptochrome 1 (cry1) protein of Arabidopsis is present in the nucleus and cytoplasm of cells, but how the functions of one pool differ from the other is not known. Nuclear localization and nuclear export signals were genetically engineered into GFP-tagged cry1 molecules to manipulate cry1 subcellular localization in a cry1-null mutant background. The effectiveness of the engineering was confirmed by confocal microscopy. The ability of nuclear or cytoplasmic cry1 to rescue a variety of cry1 phenotypes was determined. Hypocotyl growth suppression by blue light was assessed by standard end-point analyses and over time with high resolution by a custom computer-vision technique. Both assays indicated that nuclear, rather than cytoplasmic, cry1 was the effective molecule in these growth inhibitions, as was the case for the mechanistically linked membrane depolarization, which occurs within several seconds of cry1 activation. Petiole elongation also was inhibited by nuclear, but not cytoplasmic, cry1. Conversely, primary root growth and cotyledon expansion in blue light were promoted by cytoplasmic cry1 and inhibited by nuclear cry1. Anthocyanin production in response to blue light was strongly stimulated by nuclear cry1 and, to a lesser extent, by cytoplasmic cry1. An important step toward elucidation of cry1 signaling pathways is the recognition that different subcellular pools of the photoreceptor have different functions.
!~RES~! To visualize the nuclear versus cytoplasmic distribution of the cry1 photoreceptor, the DNA-coding sequence of GFP was attached to the N terminus of the CRY1 coding sequence (FIG-REF A). The N terminus was selected because previous work indicated that modifying the C terminus was likely to affect function (CITATION). The decision to place the chimeric gene under the control of the 35S promoter was based on the need for a strong GFP signal to visualize the low-abundance cry1 protein (CITATION) and the previous finding that cry1 expressed by this strong promoter functions well without severe pleiotropic effects in the seedlings (CITATION). To manipulate the cytoplasmic distribution of the cry1 photoreceptor, a nuclear localization signal (NLS) or nuclear export signal (NES) used by Matsushita et al. (CITATION) for a similar purpose was inserted between the GFP and the cry1-coding sequences (FIG-REF A). Not shown in FIG-REF A is the negative control construct in which Arg-611 of cry1 was changed to lysine. Previous studies showed that this mutation (hy4-24) blocks function without affecting protein levels (CITATION). The cry1-304 allele, previously demonstrated to lack cry1 protein (CITATION), was transformed with these various constructs. FIG-REF B shows that, in the root apex, GFP-cry1 (hereafter cry1cont for control) was present in both the cytoplasm and nucleus, as reported before for the native protein (CITATION). FIG-REF C shows that the GFP-NLS-cry1 (hereafter cry1NLS) was concentrated in the nucleus, and levels in the cytoplasm were below the detection limit. FIG-REF D shows that GFP-NES-cry1 (hereafter cry1NES) was expressed well in the cytoplasm, but could not be detected in nuclei, which were visualized by staining the roots with propidium iodide (FIG-REF E). Essentially the same results were observed in cells of etiolated hypocotyls (FIG-REF F–I), light-grown hypocotyls (FIG-REF J–M), and light-grown cotyledons (FIG-REF N–Q). These localization patterns were independent of blue-light treatment. They represent the steady-state levels of cry1 in the different compartments, but do not provide information about the rates of exchange between compartments. An analysis of GFP fluorescence intensity was performed to quantify the cytoplasmic and nuclear cry1 levels in the root tips of plants expressing the different constructs. The results, shown in FIG-REF A, are consistent with the confocal images, in that the NLS sequence tag had a profound nuclear-accumulation effect. The NES tag effectively excluded cry1 from the nucleus. Importantly, the level of cry1 in the nucleus of cry1NLS plants was similar to the levels of cry1 in the cytoplasm of cry1NES plants, and the cry1cont situation was similar to the sum of the cry1NES and cry1NLS levels. At the tissue level, rather than the subcellular level, cry1 expression levels in the three lines were similar in each of the organs studied (FIG-REF B). Homozygous lines that faithfully maintained these desired subcellular cry1 distributions in the T4 generation were used to compare the extent to which cry1NES and cry1NLS rescued the cry1–304 defects in blue-light responses. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Among the obvious changes in growth and shape that an etiolated seedling undergoes in response to light are suppression of hypocotyl elongation, expansion of the cotyledons, elongation of the cotyledon petioles, and promotion of root elongation (CITATION). The cry1 photoreceptor participates in all of these responses, so each was quantified in the different mutant and transgenic lines after 7 days of growth in a range of blue photon fluence rates to determine whether cry1NLS or cry1NES was as able to rescue the cry1–304 defects more or less well as the cry1cont control. FIG-REF A shows that blue light suppressed hypocotyl elongation in wild-type seedlings and that, at the higher fluence rates of 10, 50, and 100 μmol·m−2·s−1, cry1 seedlings were ≈4-fold taller than wild type. This iconic cry1 phenotype was completely suppressed by cry1cont, showing that the GFP-cry1 molecule was functional. The results obtained with the cry1NLS and cry1NES lines were unequivocal. Complete suppression of the phenotype was observed in cry1NLS seedlings; however, cry1NES was ineffective. Therefore, nuclear, but not cytoplasmic, cry1 can explain the long-term result of cry1 action on hypocotyl growth in blue light. Opposite to its effect on hypocotyl elongation, blue light promoted cotyledon petiole elongation in wild-type seedlings. The promotive effect of blue light was much greater in cry1 than wild type (FIG-REF B), indicating that cry1 negatively regulates this photomorphogenic response, which is presumably initiated by a different photoreceptor. Suppression of the cry1 long petioles beyond the wild-type levels was achieved by cry1cont and cry1NLS, but cry1NES produced no suppression (FIG-REF B). [[FIGURE]] Some of the root growth promotion by blue light is because of cry1 (CITATION). FIG-REF C shows the root of cry1 is shorter than wild type. Shifting the distribution of cry1 to the cytoplasm stimulated root growth (FIG-REF C) at all fluence rates. Conversely, concentrating cry1 in the nucleus inhibited root growth (FIG-REF C). The presence of cry1 in both compartments (cry1cont) produced promotion at low fluence rates and inhibition at the higher fluence rates, relative to the wild type. The main conclusion to draw from FIG-REF C is that cry1NES promotes root growth in blue light (not in darkness) and that cry1NLS has the opposite effect. Blue light promotes cotyledon expansion by cry1 signaling (CITATION, CITATION). The effect is evidenced here by the reduced cotyledon area of cry1 seedlings grown in blue light, especially at higher fluence rates (FIG-REF D). Unlike the other processes presented in FIG-REF, cry1NES was most effective at promoting cotyledon expansion and correcting the cry1 defect. Concentrating cry1 in the nucleus and excluding it from the cytoplasm (cry1NLS) prevented the photoreceptor from rescuing the mutation. As in roots, cry1NES promoted cotyledon expansion relative to wild type, cry1NLS, or the control line (cry1cont), which takes into account the effect of the 35S promoter. The stimulatory effect of cytoplasmic cry1 on cotyledon expansion is probably because of a true function of the photoreceptor; disabling cry1 function through the R611K mutation (cry1*) abolished its ability to modify any of the cry1 phenotypes tested in any of the subcellular contexts [supporting information (SI) Fig. 8]. Thus, all of the effects in FIG-REF are more likely related to cry1 signaling, rather than indirect effects such as titrative reduction of interacting proteins or nonspecific interferences caused by extraordinary levels or locales of expression. Previous studies using high-resolution tools designed for studying Arabidopsis seedling growth demonstrated that growth inhibition induced by blue light is initiated not by cry1, but by phototropin 1 (phot1), an unrelated photoreceptor (CITATION). After 30–40 min of blue-light irradiation, a cry1-mediated phase of growth inhibition replaces the phot1 phase (CITATION). The onset of the cry1 phase, but not the initial phot1 phase, has been mechanistically linked to an anion channel-mediated depolarization of the plasma membrane that is complete ≈2 min after the onset of blue-light irradiation (CITATION). It seemed possible that some portions of these earliest effects of cry1 on cell physiology and hypocotyl growth may be more dependent on cytoplasmic cry1 than nuclear cry1. Therefore, electrophysiology and the latest computer-vision technique for measuring hypocotyl growth from time series of electronic images (CITATION) were used to investigate the functions of cry1NLS and cry1NES. FIG-REF shows that the membrane depolarization defect of cry1 was not rescued by cry1NES, but was completely rescued by cry1NLS and cry1cont. If cry1NLS mediates the depolarization and the depolarization is causal to the onset of cry1-dependent growth inhibition (CITATION), then both should be rescued by the same form of cry1. If the ionic events are rescued by one form and the growth response by the other, the two will have been uncoupled. Hypocotyl growth rates were determined by using the morphometric algorithms developed by Miller et al. (CITATION). The abrupt escape from inhibition after ≈30–40 min of irradiation typical of cry1 was not corrected by cry1NES (FIG-REF). However, cry1cont and cry1NLS completely restored wild-type growth inhibition to cry1. Thus, the electrophysiological results and high-resolution growth measurements (FIG-REF and FIG-REF) are consistent with the model that rapid ionic responses to blue light and the subsequent cry1-mediated phase of growth inhibition are causally connected and both mediated by nuclear cry1. Variations of this conclusion are considered in Discussion. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Anthocyanin pigments accumulate in Arabidopsis seedlings in response to light primarily through a cry1-dependent blue-light pathway. Genes in the biosynthetic pathway are up-regulated in a cry1-dependent manner. However, Noh and Spalding (CITATION) found that a posttranslational step involving cry1-dependent anion channel activation was required for proper anthocyanin accumulation. To test the possibility that this complexity was the result of combinations of nuclear and cytoplasmic cry1 activities, anthocyanin accumulation in the transgenic lines grown in blue light was measured. As expected, cry1 seedlings were unable to accumulate anthocyanin (FIG-REF). Wild-type anthocyanin levels were restored by cry1NES, but cry1NLS and cry1cont were much more potent, promoting anthocyanin accumulation at least 5-fold higher than the wild-type level. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! To generate the chimeric fusion construct GFP-CRY1, the complete CRY1 coding sequence was amplified by PCR from an Arabidopsis cDNA clone (U12079) by using a forward primer 5′-GGCTCGAGTCTGGTTCTGTATCTGGTTGTGGTTC-3′ and a reverse primer 5′-GGCTCGAGTTACCCGGTTTGTGAAAGCCGTCTCC-3′. The italicized regions denote XhoI sites that were introduced to both primers to facilitate the cloning of amplified DNA. To introduce NLS or NES signal peptide DNA into the construct, the forward primers 5′-GGCTCGAGcctaagaagaagagaaaggttTCTGGTTCTGTATCTGGTTGTGGTTC-3′ or 5′-GGCTCGAGcttgctcttaagttggctggacttgatattTCTGGTTCTGTATCTGGTTGTGGTTC-3′, respectively, were used. The signal sequences are shown in lowercase. After digestion with XhoI, the fragment was fused in frame to the C-terminal end of eGFP in pEGAD vector. A point mutation in the CRY1-coding region that substitutes Arg-611 with a lysine residue (R611K) in the protein sequence was previously shown to create a protein that accumulates normally, but has no detectable function (CITATION). This point mutation was introduced into the cDNA clone (U12079) by a QuikChange II site-directed mutagenesis kit (Stratagene) by using the primers 5′-CCAGAATTTAATATCAAAATTGTTGCAGAGAGC-3′ and 5′-GCTCTCTGCAACAATTTTGATATTAAATTCTGG-3′. The resulting plasmid was used as the template to clone the mutated CRY1 cDNA with NLS or NES tag into pEGAD as described before. The mutated, nonfunctional cry1 produced is designated cry1*. The resulting constructs were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 and used to transform cry1–304 mutant plants by using the floral dip method (CITATION). Plants carrying the transgene were isolated through basta selection. The homozygous lines for the transgene were obtained in the T4 generation.  A. thaliana ecotype Columbia was used as a wild type in all experiments. Seeds were surface-sterilized with 75% ethanol and plated on half-strength Murashige and Skoog agar plates [2.15 g/liter MS salts, 0.8% bacto-agar (pH 5.7)] (Sigma–Aldrich). The plates were maintained in darkness at 4°C for 2–3 days and then placed under various intensities of constant blue light at 22°C for 7 days. To quantify growth rates, seedlings were rearranged on agar plates, and images were obtained with a flatbed scanner. Hypocotyls, petioles primary roots, and the cotyledon area were determined by using National Institutes of Health IMAGE software. Confocal microscopy was performed with a Zeiss LSM 510 laser scanning confocal microscope equipped with a meta-detector. Propidium iodide was used to stain the nucleus and the cell wall to delineate the root structure. Vybrant DyeCycle Orange stain (Invitrogen) was used to stain the nucleus in the hypocotyl and cotyledon. Either a C-Apochromat ×40 water immersion lens or a Plan-Apochromat ×63 oil immersion lens was used. The sample was excited with the 488-nm laser line from a 30-mW argon gas laser. The fluorescence was captured in 10-nm bandwidths, and then linear unmixing was performed to isolate the GFP signal from the stained or endogenous fluorescence background. Mean fluorescence intensities were calculated within manually selected regions of interest with Zeiss LSM 510 software. In the primary root nucleus, a circular area of ≈50 μm2 covering the whole nucleus was selected. One representative nucleus per root was recorded, and the values reported are the means of at least four separate roots. For the cytoplasmic values, a field of similar size adjacent to the nucleus was chosen. To measure overall GFP intensity in the different organs, regions of ≈0.01–0.02 mm2 for the root, 0.1–0.15 mm2 for the hypocotyl, 0.05–0.1 mm2 for the petiole, and 0.15–0.2 mm2 for the cotyledon were used. Seedlings were 4 days old. Two-day-old seedlings grown in the dark on 1% agar containing 1 mM KCl and 1 mM CaCl2 were used to measure hypocotyl growth with a recently developed computer-vision method (CITATION). Briefly, electronic images acquired at 10-min intervals by CCD cameras using infrared light were analyzed with custom morphometric algorithms designed to extract information such as growth rate (CITATION). Hypocotyl inhibition was induced by 50 μmol·m−2·s−1 blue light. Four-day-old etiolated seedlings grown on 1% agar containing 1 mM KCl and 1 mM CaCl2 were used to measure surface potential induced by a pulse of 200 μmol·m−2·s−1 blue light as described previously (CITATION), except that the xenon arc light source and delivery mechanism were those used by Folta et al. (CITATION). Anthocyanin measurement was conducted according to a previously published method (CITATION). Seven-day-old seedlings grown under 100 μmol·m−2·s−1 blue light were harvested from the agar plates, quickly weighed, and placed into microcentrifuge tubes containing 350 μl of 18% 1-propanol, 1% HCl, and 81% water. The tubes were placed in boiling water for 3 min and then incubated in darkness overnight at room temperature. After a brief centrifugation to pellet the tissue, 300 μl of the solution was removed and brought to a final volume of 600 μl by adding solvent. The amount of anthocyanins in the resulting extract was quantified spectrophotometrically. The values are reported as (A535–A650) per gram of fresh weight.
