!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis thaliana MALE STERILITY1 (MS1) gene is critical for viable pollen formation and has homology to the PHD-finger class of transcription factors; however, its role in pollen development has not been fully defined. We show that MS1 transcription appears to be autoregulated by the wild-type MS1 transcript or protein. Using a functional green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion to analyze the temporal and spatial expression of MS1, we demonstrate that the MS1:GFP protein is nuclear localized within the tapetum and is expressed in a developmentally regulated manner between late tetraspore and microspore release, then rapidly breaks down, probably by ubiquitin-dependent proteolysis. Absence of MS1 expression results in changes in tapetal secretion and exine structure. Microarray analysis has shown that 260 (228 downregulated and 32 upreglated) genes have altered expression in young ms1 buds. These genes are primarily associated with pollen wall and coat formation; however, a number of transcription factors and Cys proteases have also been identified as the putative primary regulatory targets of MS1. Ectopic expression of MS1 alters transcriptional regulation of vegetative gene expression, resulting in stunted plants with increased levels of branching, partially fertile flowers and an apparent increase in wall material on mature pollen. MS1 therefore plays a critical role in the induction of pollen wall and pollen coat materials in the tapetum and, ultimately, the production of viable pollen.
!~RES~! Quantitative RT-PCR analysis of MS1 expression was conducted using pools of developmentally staged, closed buds consisting of (1) PMCs through to meiosis stage, (2) tetrads through to pollen mitosis I, and (3) mitosis II through to dehiscence (mitosis II). In the wild type, MS1 expression is maximal from PMCs through to meiosis. Low levels of expression (decreasing by a factor of 17 and 2.8 progressively) are also detected in young buds (mitosis I) and old buds (mitosis II) (Figure 1A), indicating that MS1 expression is from meiosis through to mitosis I stage. This agrees with previous promoter:β-glucuronidase reporter data (CITATION) but is slightly longer than was shown by in situ hybridization (CITATION), and this may be a reflection of the sensitivity of the detection methods. Expression of the ms1-1 mutant transcript was also analyzed; this mutant has a point mutation at the junction of the second intron and therefore fails to splice normally (CITATION). The mutation results in a truncated transcript that is predicted to produce a nonfunctional protein of 199 amino acids, which is missing the Leu zipper (LZ) and PHD domains of the full-length MS1 protein (672 amino acids) (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Expression of the ms1-1 mutant transcript is at a significantly higher level and for a longer duration than the wild-type MS1 transcript (Figure 1). Extremely high levels of expression are seen in both PMC to meiosis (27-fold increase) and tetrad to mitosis I stages (600-fold increase) in ms1 compared with the wild type. During mitosis I, a reduction (17-fold) in expression is seen in the wild type; however, this does not occur in the ms1-1 mutant, further increasing the difference in expression at this stage. In ms1-1, expression is also maintained during mitosis II stage, albeit at a slightly lower level than in the young mutant buds; however, this is still 11-fold increased compared with the wild type. RT-PCR was also conducted on our other ms1 alleles; all of these mutants result from single-base mutations that are predicted to form partial transcripts and lose the PHD-finger motif (CITATION). Increased expression of the mutant transcripts is seen in all of the ms1 alleles compared with the wild-type buds (see Supplemental Figure 1 online); however, this increase is greatest in the ms1-1/ms1-6 alleles, which show a failure of splicing of the second intron. However, equal expression of the wild type and mutant transcript is seen in the F1 Landsberg erecta (Ler) × ms1-1 heterozygote (Figure 1B), indicating that wild-type MS1 expression is not affected by the ms1-1 mutant transcript or mutant protein and that a single copy of the full-length wild-type MS1 transcript can downregulate both its own expression and that of the mutant transcript. MS1 protein expression was localized using translational GFP fusions (see Supplemental Figure 2 online) under the control of the native MS1 promoter, which were transformed into heterozygous ms1 ttg plants and the subsequent generations screened to identify homozygous ms1 complemented lines. Both the N- and the C-terminal MS1:GFP fusions rescued the male-sterile phenotype of the ms1 ttg lines to full fertility; however, the internal GFP construct in which the fluorescent tag was inserted upstream of the LZ motif was not functional. RT-PCR analysis of the complemented lines showed the presence of the ms1-1 mutant transcript and the MS1 and NPTII transgene (Figure 1B). Stronger GFP signal was seen in the lines carrying the C-terminal construct compared with the N-terminal construct, and these were used for the subsequent expression analysis. Hybridization of GFP polyclonal antibodies to total protein isolated from MS1:GFP C-terminal fusion lines showed a 107-kD band (77 kD for MS1; 30.6 kD for GFP protein) corresponding to the MS1:GFP fusion protein in buds as well as from excised anthers in the transgenic lines (see Supplemental Figure 3 online), which was absent from the wild-type buds. Expression of the MS1:GFP fusion protein is only detected in the tapetal tissues of the anther, and no signal is seen in the microspores or in the vegetative tissues. Expression starts in the tapetum as the callose wall separating the tetraspores begins to degrade (Figures 2E to 2H); no MS1 protein expression is detected before this stage (Figures 2A to 2D; early tetraspore stage). The timing of callose breakdown is developmentally regulated and is critical for pollen viability (CITATION; CITATION) and occurs sequentially across the anther locules (Figure 2H); a similar progression of MS1:GFP expression is observed. Once the entire callose wall has broken down and the microspores are released, maximal MS1 expression is seen within the tapetum across the whole locule (Figures 2I, 2K, and 2L). Immediately after microspore release, pollen wall development and microspore mitosis occur, and the tapetum is clearly discernable at this stage (Figure 2N), but the MS1:GFP fusion protein is no longer detected (Figures 2M and 2O). The MS1:GFP fusion protein is therefore only detectable for a short developmental period of ∼12 h from late tetraspore until the free microspore stage. This is similar to the MS1 RNA expression pattern, with translation occurring soon after detection of the transcript; however, the MS1 transcript can be detected for an extended period beyond this, suggesting a process of developmentally regulated breakdown. However, if anthers are excised from the plant and maintained at 4°C in a humid environment, the developmental process is halted and the microspores fail to go through mitosis I. Under these conditions, the MS1:GFP fusion protein persists and does not go through normal breakdown. MS1:GFP signal is detected for at least 4 d, after which point the anthers undergo general degeneration and analysis was discontinued (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] The deduced MS1 protein sequence contains a predicted N-terminal nuclear localizing sequence PKKR (http://psort.hgc.jp), and previous transient expression studies using the truncated N-terminal region of the MS1 polypeptide suggested that the MS1 protein might be nuclear localized (CITATION). The functional MS1:GFP fusion protein was detected within the nuclei of the tapetal cells (Figures 2L and 2P); no cytoplasmic expression was seen, thus confirming that the predicted nuclear localizing sequence is effective for nuclear targeting of the MS1 protein within the tapetum. Transcript profiling of the ms1 ttg mutant was performed on closed buds that had been staged by microscopy and RT-PCR into two developmental groups: (1) young, from formation of the sporogeneous tissues to pollen mitosis I; (2) old, pollen mitosis II through to dehiscence. Statistical analysis of microarrays (SAM) (CITATION) was used to analyze the data, a false discovery cutoff of 5% was used for the initial selection of candidate genes, and a secondary filtering of >log2 fold difference was then applied. Comparisons between the two developmental stages showed that in the wild type, more genes are upregulated in the young buds (up to mitosis I) compared with the later stages of mitosis II through to dehiscence; this agrees with previous reports in the literature of the pollen transcriptome (CITATION). These changes in gene expression correlate with the stages of cell differentiation and biosynthesis that occur during the early stages of pollen maturation. In the ms1 mutant, a general reduction in gene expression was seen. The MS1 gene is functional at mid stages of development; therefore, changes in gene expression were expected during the later stages of development after MS1 expression; however, no significant ms1-associated expression changes were detected in this older material. However, 966 genes (SAM analysis, false discovery rate [FDR] <5%; see Supplemental Data Set 1 online) showed differential expression during the early stages of development in the ms1 mutant compared with the wild-type buds; however, when filtered for changes of >log2 fold, the number of genes reduced to 314, and of these, only 260 (228 downregulated; 32 upregulated; see Supplemental Data Set 1 online) were identified as expressed in the anther (J. Song and Z.A. Wilson, unpublished data). Of the 260 genes, 161 were found to be also expressed in the pollen (CITATION), while 99 were expressed in the anther but not found within the pollen transcriptome set (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). Comparisons were also made to array data sets for the spl and ems mutants, and 1954 and 525 genes were seen to change in the spl and ems1 mutants, respectively (CITATION). The differences in numbers of genes changing reflect the relative position of the mutants in the network of pollen development, with SPL active very early, followed by EMS1, and then at a later stage of development MS1. The 94 genes that change in all three mutants reflect genes that are downstream of MS1 as either direct or indirect targets (see Supplemental Data Set 2 online). The other remaining 166 are likely to act in parts of the pollen development pathway that are independent of SPL and EMS1. Among the genes that are very highly upregulated in the young ms1 tissue and are expressed in the anther tissues are At1g23760 (putative polyygalacuronase isoenzyme; +10.6), two unknown proteins (At2g34870 [+9.3] and At5g46230 [+5.2]), At2g42990 (putative APG isolog; +5.6), At5g15140 (putative aldose 1-epimerase-like; +5.2), and At1g01280 (cytochrome P450; +3.8). The downregulated genes showing the greatest changes in ms1 young buds are genes associated with pollen wall development, including At5g07550 (Gly-rich protein PUTG1; −94.2), At1g67990 (putative S-adenosyl-l-Met; −73.4), At1g68875 (expressed protein; −109.9), At3g51590 (lipid transfer protein-like; −51.9), At5g07560 (oleosin-like; −61.5), and At1g75910 (anther-specific Pro- rich-like protein; −43.1). Expression data obtained from the array hybridization were verified by RT-PCR (see Supplemental Figure 5 online) using a group of key genes selected because they had high fold change and/or functional relevance that included anther-specific genes (At1g20120, At1g75910, and At1g75930), transcription factors (At2g16910 and At2g46130), pollen wall (At4g37900, At3g51590, At5g07560, At5g09520, and At5g07550), lignin biosynthesis (At1g67990), and high fold changes in genes related to the cytochrome P450 (At4g31970) and hypothetical proteins (At1g23570 and At1g68875) with no homology with any other Arabidopsis protein. All data confirmed the expression changes seen in the arrays. The MS1 gene (At5g22260) is not represented on the ATH1 chip; however, the expression of other genes known to be associated with pollen development, including: CER6/CUT1 (At1g68530), MS2 (At3g11980), ATA20 (At3g15400), ATA7 (At4g28395), SUP (At3g23130), TES (At3g43210), POLLENLESS/MS5 (At4g20900), and NZZ (At4g27330) were also analyzed by RT-PCR to verify the microarray expression data (see Supplemental Figure 6 online). Early genes associated with anther development, meiosis, and tapetal initiation (SUP, MS5, TES, and NZZ), ATA7, or CER6, which is associated with wax biosynthesis (CITATION), do not show significant changes in expression in the ms1 mutant. However ATA20, which has homology to lipid transfer proteins (CITATION) and is expressed later during pollen wall development, showed significant downregulation. MS2 (CITATION, CITATION), which has homology to a fatty acyl reductase involved in pollen wall formation, showed a slightly prolonged expression in older ms1 buds (see Supplemental Figure 6 online); however, SAM analysis did not show this as significant, and since this occurs after most of the ms1-related changes, it seems unlikely that there is a direct link between the regulation of MS2 and MS1. Microarray data from the ems1 mutant, which has impaired tapetal development and is active at an earlier stage than MS1, and DYT1 indicated a number of genes in the pollen development pathway (CITATION). Many of these genes do not show altered expression in the ms1 mutant, although the genes encoding for a lipid transfer protein (At3g51590), a hexose transport protein (At1g07340), polyadenylated binding protein 5 (At1g71770), and β-1,3-glucanase (AT3g23770) show changed expression in the ms1 mutant and therefore can be placed downstream of EMS1 and DYT1 (Table 1 ). Expression in the ms1 Mutant of Genes Previously Reported as Altered in Expression by EMS/SPL and Involved in Pollen Development The 228 downregulated genes showing differential expression in ms1 fall into a number of functional groups (see Supplemental Figure 4 online); a large number of them (75) are associated with catalytic activities, principally of hydrolase activity, which are associated with cell wall biosynthesis and lipid-associated genes involved in the production of pollen wall materials. Cluster analysis of gene expression identified a number of groups that showed coordinated expression profiles in ms1, for example, the tapetal oleosin and APG-like genes (Figure 3). The oleosin genes comprise a family of ∼20 members, many of which are associated with seed oil body formation, but some have been linked to pollen wall development. Seed-related oleosin genes do not show alterations in expression in ms1 (see Supplemental Table 1 online), indicating the specificity of the MS1-regulated pathway. [[FIGURE]] A number of transcription factors show downregulated expression in ms1 (see Supplemental Table 2 online), and four of these show clustering of expression, suggesting coordinate regulation (Figure 4), indicating that they are likely direct targets for MS1. Another group of genes that are overrepresented in the data set are Cys proteases. These show varying levels of downregulation ranging from 33- to 2-fold (Figure 5).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The pollen wall can be divided into two distinct regions: the inner intine and outer exine. In the ms1 mutant, exine formation is abnormal, with initial deposition of prime-exine occurring but with only limited, sporopollenin deposition (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We conducted further ultrastructural analysis on wild-type Ler and ms1 buds to determine the effect of MS1 on tapetal development and specifically secretion of pollen wall material. Once the microspores are released from the callose wall, the tapetal cells start to appear abnormal and secretion into the locule is affected. After the first mitotic division, the wild-type tapetal cells contain a large number of inclusions, lipid deposits in the plastids become larger than in previous stages, and cytoplasmic lipid droplets fuse to form large drops. High numbers of vesicles containing fibrillar material are present in the cytoplasm (Figures 6A, 6C, and 6E). In the wild type, vesicles can be seen to migrate to the inner tapetal membrane, which later breaks down to aid release of the pollen wall material (Figures 6C and 6E). Whereas in ms1 the materials accumulate in the tapetum, these small vesicles form an extensive network of vesicles that progressively fuse and effectively engulf the entirety of the tapetum cells, coalescing to form large vacuoles. Surprisingly, these vesicles do not seem to fuse with the cell membrane but with each other (Figures 6B, 6D, and 6F). Therefore, the normal passage of pollen wall materials in vesicles through the tapetum for secretion into the locule fails to occur. Lipid droplets can be identified in the cytoplasm and inside the vacuoles; also, tryphine inclusions similar to those observed in the wild type are found in the mutant tapetal cells. Decreases in elaioplast numbers are also seen in the mutant, whereas in the wild type, these are numerous and contain large amounts of lipid materials. This correlates with the decrease in expression of genes linked to fatty acid and lipid biosynthesis seen in the ms1 transcriptomic data. The tapetal cells then go through autophagic breakdown of the vacuoles and necrotic-based cell death as opposed to the usual process of tapetal PCD (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] The MS1 gene was overexpressed under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter (CaMV35S). High levels of ectopic MS1 expression were detected in leaves of the transgenic lines, while no expression of MS1 was seen in wild-type leaf material (Figure 7B). The 35S:MS1 lines were stunted, often forming flowering stems with only a minimal rosette (Figures 7A and 7C). These lines showed a range of severity of phenotypes linked to the level of MS1 expression. In the most severe cases, they showed slow development with a very small rosette, densely packed and short flowering stem (Figure 7C), and the flowers were often abnormal with shorter petals and sepals, which means that the anthers protruded at an earlier developmental stage than normal (Figure 7E). However, these anthers were also actually shorter than their wild-type equivalent (Figures 7D and 7E). As seen with many of the male-sterile mutants, the longevity of the plants was enhanced, with flowering continuing for much longer than in the wild type. In other less severe lines, flower initiation occurred normally; however, increased levels of branching were observed. In some cases the flowers were semi- or completely sterile; however, this sterility partially broke down as the plants aged. The phenotypes of these sterile flowers were distinct from that of the ms1 mutant, with mature pollen degeneration occurring rather than the earlier degeneration of microspores seen in ms1; therefore, this is not due to silencing of the MS1 gene. The leaves and tissues of the 35S:MS1 overexpression lines were often distorted and twisted; this was particularly evident in the anthers that showed increased indentations on the epidermal surface. Analysis of pollen from these lines showed an excess deposition of wall material and a loss of the regular structure of the pollen wall (Figures 7H and 7I). [[FIGURE]] Microarray analysis has identified a number of genes with altered expression in the ms1 mutant buds, and three of these, which are associated with lipid biosynthesis and pollen wall development (At5g07550, At5g07410, and At5g07560) and show reproducible downregulation in ms1 buds, were analyzed in the 35S:MS1 overexpression lines by RT-PCR. Expression is observed in wild-type buds, but no wild-type vegetative expression is seen (Figures 8A to 8C). However, in some of the MS1 overexpression material, expression is seen in both bud and leaf material, suggesting that expression of these floral-specific transcripts is being activated by the ectopically expressed MS1 (Figures 8A to 8C). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Ler seeds carrying the ms1 ttg mutations (N261) were provided by the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (NASC). Plant material was sown on Levington M3:John Innes No. 3:vermiculite:perlite (6:6:1:1) compost mix supplemented with 0.2 g L−1 of Intercept and grown in controlled environmental chambers at 21 to 22°C under illumination of 167 μmol·m−2·s−1 with a 22-h photoperiod. Seedlings were selected by expression of the ttg mutation and the male-sterile phenotype confirmed after flowering. Lines were maintained and heterozygotes generated by crossing ms1 ttg plants with wild-type Ler pollen. Three constructs were produced that contained the GFP-coding region in three separate regions of the MS1 gene: C- and T-terminal fusions and centrally within the third exon of the MS1 gene. The 2.9-kb upstream region of MS1, combined with the complete MS1 gene and 333-bp untranslated 3′ region, was cloned into the pBluescript KS+ vector (Stratagene) to form pBKSMS1. PCR was used to amplify a 1.1-kb BamHI fragment from the 3′ end of the MS1 gene, delete the MS1 stop codon, and add three extra amino acids (SSG) and a BglII site to the 3′ end. The GFP coding region (kindly provided by M. Bennett's laboratory, University of Nottingham) was amplified using primers with a 5′ BglII site and 3′ XbaI and SacII restriction sites. The MS1 terminal region and the GFP fragment were cut with BglII and then ligated together. This fragment was then digested with BamHI and SacII and ligated into the pBKSMS1 clone that had been previously digested with BamHI and SacII to produce pBKSMS1d. The 3′ untranslated region of the wild-type MS1 gene was PCR amplified from the stop codon to 329 bp downstream and an AvrII site added to the 5′ end and XbaI and SacII restriction sites to the 3′ end. This fragment was then digested with AvrII and SacII and ligated to the pBKSMS1d clone that had been previously digested with XbaI and SacII. This resulted in an MS1 genomic insert containing 2.9 kb upstream of the translational start, the MS1 genomic coding sequence, and the GFP sequence, followed by the MS1 endogenous stop and 329 bp of the MS1 untranslated 3′ region (see Supplemental Figure 2 online) to form pBKSMS1-C-GFP. Inverse PCR was performed to insert BglII, SalI, and XbaI restriction sites at the MS1 translational start site. The pBKSMS1 plasmid was amplified using primers flanking the translation start site carrying BglII and SalI sites, and SalI and XbaI sites, respectively. The amplified fragment was digested with SalI and ligated and cloned into Escherichia coli D5Hα cells. The GFP coding sequence was then amplified with flanking BglII and XbaI restriction sites and then ligated into the IPCR-derived clone that had been previously digested with BglII and XbaI. This plasmid was then digested with SphI and HindIII to generate a 1.7-kb MS1 fragment containing the inserted GFP coding region. This MS1-GFP region was then ligated into the pBKSMS1 plasmid (previously digested with SphI and HindIII) to form pBKSMS1-N-GFP. Inverse PCR was repeated to insert BglII, SalI, and XbaI restriction sites in the MS1 third exon at base 1538. The pBKSMS1 plasmid was amplified using primers flanking the base 1538 carrying BglII and SalI sites, and SalI and XbaI sites, respectively. The amplified fragment was digested with SalI and ligated and cloned into E. coli D5Hα cells. This was then digested with BglII and XbaI and ligated with the GFP coding sequence, which had been previously amplified with flanking BglII and XbaI restriction sites. This plasmid was then digested with BamHI and SacII and the MS1-GFP region (1.9 kb) ligated into pBKSMS1 plasmid that had also previously been digested with BamHI and SacII to form pBKSMS1-int-GFP. The MS1 cDNA was PCR amplified using primers FGWMS1 and RGWMS1 (see Supplemental Table 3 online) and cloned by recombination into Gateway pDONR201 entry vector (Invitrogen) and then transferred into pGWB5 (CITATION) under the control of the CaMV35S promoter. The construct was then transferred into Agrobacterium tumefaciens C58 and wild-type Arabidopsis thaliana Ler plants. Plants were screened for presence of the transgene on kanamycin and by PCR. RNA was isolated from buds and leaves of the T1 lines carrying the CaMV35S:MS1 gene (RNeasy; Qiagen) and cDNA prepared using 2.5 μg of total RNA in a 20-μL reaction (Superscript II reverse transcriptase; Invitrogen). This was used for RT-PCR analysis of MS1 expression and three genes that had shown downregulation in ms1 buds (At5g07550, At5g07410, and At5g07560; see Supplemental Table 3 online). Amplification was performed using 0.5 μL of cDNA template and the appropriate primer pairs (see Supplemental Table 3 online) for 30 cycles at 94°C for 30s, 58°C for 30s, and 72°C for 1 min. Control RT-PCR analyses were conducted using Arabidopsis actin primers (CITATION). All constructs were checked by sequencing. The GFP fusions were ligated into pBIN19 after digestion with KpnI and SacII. The binary vectors were then transferred into Agrobacterium C58 by electroporation (CITATION). Heterozygous ms1 ttg plants were separately transformed with the three GFP constructs using the floral dip method (CITATION). Seeds were collected and screened on Murashige and Skoog medium (CITATION) containing 50 μg/mL of kanamycin. T1 seedlings were selected for the presence of the transgene, transferred to soil, and allowed to self. T1 plants were screened for GFP expression by PCR and microscopy and for the ms1-linked ttg marker and male fertility. Seeds from the T1 plants were harvested individually. Complementation of the ms1 mutation by a functional MS1:GFP fusion protein was indicated by kanamycin resistance, the ttg phenotype, RT-PCR, and restoration to full fertility. To ensure that we were observing complementation of the ms1 mutation and not recombination between the ttg and ms1 mutations, an excess of 40 plants from each line were analyzed per generation, over a minimum of three generations; in all cases, the transgene cosegregated with the ttg marker and restoration of fertility. Lines that were complemented by the MS1P:MS1:GFP constructs were also analyzed in the T2 generation without kanamycin selection. These lines showed distorted segregation of fertility, with presence of functional transgenes cosegregating with fertility; in all cases, the lines exhibiting the ttg phenotype were fully fertile and carried the transgene. Inflorescences selected from homozygous lines carrying the transgene were analyzed for GFP expression by fluorescence (Nikon) and confocal microscopy (TCS SP2; Leica). A minimum of 10 independent transformants were analyzed (5 to 10 inflorescences per line). Pollen viability was determined by Alexander staining (CITATION). For ultrastructure analysis, whole inflorescences were removed from Ler and ms1 mutant plants, fixed overnight in 4% paraformaldehyde in phosphate buffer, pH 7.2, rinsed twice in phosphate buffer, and fixed in 1% (w/v) OsO4 (in phosphate buffer) for 3 h. Tissue was dehydrated in an ethanol series and infiltrated with Spurr's resin. Individual buds were then dissected and embedded in Spurr's resin. Ultrathin sections (50 to 70 nm) were cut using a diamond knife on a Reichert-Jung Ultracut ultramicrotome and picked up on 200 mesh copper grids. Sections were double stained with saturated uranyl acetate in 50% ethanol and lead citrate and examined with a Jeol JEM 1010 electron microscope. For scanning electron microscopy, material was fixed in FAA (5% [v/v] formalin, 5% [v/v] acetic acid, and 50% [v/v] ethanol), dried in an ethanol series, coated with gold particles, and observed using a Jeol JSM 840 scanning electron microscope. Total protein was isolated by trichloroacetic acid precipitation (http://www.biotech.unl.edu/proteomics/mercaptoethanol.html), separated on NuPAGE 4 to 12% Bis-Tris gels (Invitrogen), and transferred to nitrocellulose membrane in 1× NuPAGE transfer buffer at a constant voltage (30 V; room temperature). The membranes were blocked in 5% milk powder (Marvell) in TBS-T (0.01% Tween 20 in TBS) buffer for 2 h (room temperature) or overnight at 4°C. They were then hybridized with rabbit anti-GFP antibody (1:2000 dilution; Molecular Probes) in blocking buffer for 1 h at room temperature, washed four times with 1% milk powder in TBS-T, and reacted with horseradish peroxidase–conjugated anti-rabbit IgG (1:2500 dilution; Sigma-Aldrich). The cross-reacting proteins were visualized by chemiluminescence using ECL protein gel blotting detection reagents according to the manufacturer's instructions (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech). Closed buds were collection as soon as the plants showed three fertile (wild type) or sterile siliques (ms1) (∼27 to 29 d old). Buds were dissected and separated into different groups according to their relative position within the inflorescence, taking bud 1 as the oldest unopened bud. All opened flowers and buds that were about to open (petals clearly visible) were discarded. The buds were staged by light microscopy and by RT-PCR analysis of MS1 expression. Two pools of unopened buds, representing young buds (PMC–mitosis I) and old buds (mitosis II), were collected from Ler, Ler ttg, and ms1 ttg plants, immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen, and stored at −80°C until required. The number of buds in the inflorescence varies between the wild type and the ms1 mutant; therefore, the number of buds included in each wild type/mutant group was selected to reflect developmental stage rather than numerical bud classes. For the wild type, the old bud group comprised buds 1 to 4, and young buds consisted of buds 5 and younger. For the mutant, buds 1 to 6 were included in the old buds group; buds 7 and onwards formed the young bud group. The ttg mutation was used as an early marker to help identify homozygous ms1 lines for array analysis; therefore, control arrays were performed using both Ler and ttg bud material. Total RNA was extracted from 20 to 40 mg of buds (RNeasy plant kit; Qiagen). RNA samples were DNase treated and then purified using RNeasy spin columns (Qiagen). Affymetrix microarray analysis was performed by NASC using 10 μg of total RNA per sample as described in the Affymetrix GeneChip technical analysis manual (Affymetrix). Double-stranded cRNA was synthesized using the SuperScript Choice system (Invitrogen) with oligo(dT)24 primer fused to a T7 RNA polymerase promoter. Biotin-labeled cRNA was prepared by cDNA in vitro transcription using the BioArray High-Yield RNA transcript labeling kit (Enzo Biochem) with biotinylated UTP or CTP. The Arabidopsis ATH1 Genome array (Affymetrix) was screened using 15 μg of labeled target cRNA according to the Affymetrix GeneChip Technical Analysis Manual. GeneChips were then stained using streptavadin-phycoerythrin solution and scanned using an Agilent 2500A GeneArray scanner (Agilent Technologies). Two to three replicates of independently grown material were used. The raw hybridization data were provided by NASC and were normalized using robust multichip average analysis (CITATION). Reproducibility was tested using the standard error /average *100% calculation to give a measurement of the variability that is independent of the size of the average. A small value (10 to 20%) indicated that the replicate data were consistent, with a fold change between replicates no bigger than 2. SAM (CITATION) was used to analyze the microarray data. Triplicates were used, and any genes with absent or marginal signal in all of the samples were removed from the analysis. Samples were compared across the two developmental stages. A false discovery cutoff of 5% was used for the initial selection of candidate genes, and a secondary filtering of log2 fold difference was then applied. Genes were also sorted according to their biological and molecular function using information from Gene Ontology (Netaffix), KEGG, and MAPMAN (http://gabi.rzpd.de/projects/MapMan/). First-strand cDNAs were synthesized from 5 μg of total RNA isolated from different Ler and ms1 staged buds (old and young stages) and vegetative and reproductive tissues. RT was performed using Superscript II reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen) and an oligo(dT) primer (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Amplification was conducted in a 25-μL volume reaction using 0.5 μL of the cDNA template, or equivalent RT control, which lacked Superscript II reverse transcriptase, gene-specific primers, and Taq DNA polymerase (Promega) for one cycle of 2 min at 94°C, followed by 30 cycles of 94°C for 30 s, 56 to 58°C for 30 s, 72°C for 1 min, and a final elongation cycle at 72°C for 4 min. The sequences of all primers used are presented in Supplemental Table 3 online. Quantitative RT-PCR analyses were performed using the Mx4000 multiplex quantitative PCR system (Stratagene). To quantify copy number, a standard curve was produced using serial dilutions of cloned MS1 cDNA. Reactions were set up using Brilliant SYBR Green QPCR master mix (Stratagene) in a final volume of 25 μL containing 0.5 μL of cDNA and 0.5 μL of the appropriate primers (see Supplemental Table 3 online). PCR cycling conditions for amplification were 95°C for 10 min and then 40 cycles of 95°C for 30 s, 58°C for 1 min, and 72°C for 1 min. Data acquisition and analyses were performed using Mx4000 real-time multiplex quantitative PCR system software. All samples were tested at least twice. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. RT-PCR of the MS1 Gene in the Different ms1 Alleles. Supplemental Figure 2. Schematic Representations of the MS1:GFP Fusion Constructs. Supplemental Figure 3. Protein Gel Blot Hybridization of MS1:GFP Fusion Protein Using Anti-GFP Antibody. Supplemental Figure 4. Functional Grouping and Comparison of Genes Changing in ms1 with the Pollen Transcriptome. Supplemental Figure 5. RT-PCR Analysis of Genes Showing High and Low-Level Expression Changes in ms1 Buds. Supplemental Figure 6. RT-PCR Validation of a Number of Genes Involved in Pollen Development in Wild-Type and ms1 Mutant Buds. Supplemental Table 1. Oleosin Genes in Arabidopsis. Supplemental Table 2. All Putative Transcription Factors Changing at <5% FDR by SAM Analysis and >Log2 Fold in ms1 Young Buds. Supplemental Table 3. Primer Sequences Used in the Analyses. Supplemental Data Set 1. Genes That Are Changing in ms1 Young Buds Compared with the Wild Type as Identified by SAM Analysis (5% FDR) Show a More Than Twofold Change and Are Present in Anther Array Samples. Supplemental Data Set 2. Genes That Are Changing in ms1 Young Buds Compared with the Wild Type as Identified by SAM Analysis (5% FDR) and Show a More Than Twofold Change That Are Also Changing in the spl/nzz and ems1 Mutants (CITATION).
