!~ABS~! Rab5, a subfamily of Rab GTPases, regulates a variety of endosomal functions as a molecular switch. Arabidopsis thaliana has two different types of Rab5-member GTPases: conventional type, ARA7 and RHA1, and a plant-specific type, ARA6. We found that only one guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF), named VPS9a, can activate all Rab5 members to GTP-bound forms in vitro in spite of their diverged structures. In the vps9a-1 mutant, whose GEF activity is completely lost, embryogenesis was arrested at the torpedo stage. Green fluorescent protein (GFP)–ARA7 and ARA6-GFP were diffused in cytosol like GDP-fixed mutants of Rab5 in vps9a-1, indicating that both types of GTPase are regulated by VPS9a. In the leaky vps9a-2 mutant, elongation of the primary root was severely affected. Overexpression of the GTP-fixed form of ARA7 suppressed the vps9a-2 mutation, but overexpression of ARA6 had no apparent effects. These results indicate that the two types of plant Rab5 members are functionally differentiated, even though they are regulated by the same activator, VPS9a.
!~RES~! Arabidopsis has two genes that encode proteins containing the Vps9 domain, VPS9a and VPS9b, in its genome (Figure 1A ) (CITATION). VPS9a is expressed in all tissues we examined by immunoblotting using an anti-VPS9a antibody (Figure 1B). This is also supported by published microarray data (Expression Atlas of Arabidopsis Development) (CITATION). We also found that mutations in VPS9a severely affect various stages of plant development, as will be described later. On the other hand, we have been unable to detect any expression of VPS9b by RT-PCR. There are no expression data such as EST clones deposited in the database, as far as we could determine. Furthermore, our analysis of T-DNA insertion mutants of VPS9b revealed no obvious phenotype (data not shown). These results strongly suggest that VPS9a functions predominantly throughout Arabidopsis development and that VPS9b has very limited roles, if any. [[FIGURE]] VPS9a encodes a protein of 521 amino acid residues (VPS9a). Similarity analysis revealed that VPS9a and other Rab5 GEFs share similarity only within the Vps9 domain at the N-terminal half of the protein (Figure 1A). We did not find any known motif or similarity to other proteins for the C-terminal half of VPS9a. As there are two different types of Rab5s in Arabidopsis, it is an interesting question to ask whether VPS9a with the conserved Vps9 domain could activate all of these Rab5 members. To answer this question, we measured the GEF activity of VPS9a toward the three Rab5 members of Arabidopsis by monitoring the change in intrinsic Trp fluorescence upon nucleotide exchange. As we predicted, VPS9a stimulated the nucleotide exchange of conventional-type Rab5s (ARA7 and RHA1) in a dose-dependent manner (Figure 1C). Interestingly, VPS9a also activated the plant-specific ARA6 as efficiently as ARA7 and RHA1. These GEF activities are highly specific to Rab5 members: VPS9a showed no activity at all to other subclasses of Arabidopsis Rab GTPases (Figure 1C; see Supplemental Figure 1 online). These specific interactions between VPS9a and Rab5 members were confirmed by the yeast two-hybrid assay and the in vitro pull-down assay. In these experiments, we examined the nucleotide dependence of the interactions. When wild-type and mutant versions of RHA1 were used as baits in the yeast two-hybrid assay, VPS9a showed positive interaction only with the GDP-fixed (S24N) and the nucleotide-free (N123I) forms but not with the wild-type and GTP-fixed (Q69L) forms (Figure 1D). ARA6 gave similar results. VPS9a interacted with GDP-fixed (S47N) and nucleotide-free (N147I) forms but not with wild-type and GTP-fixed (Q93L) forms of ARA6 (Figure 1D). The interactions of VPS9a with ARA7 and RHA1 were also detected in the pull-down assay (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). It should be noted here that wild-type ARA7 and RHA1 could form complexes with VPS9a in the pull-down assay, which may appear to contradict the results of the yeast two-hybrid assay. We assume that this is due to the difference of the nucleotide environment between these experimental systems; most purified Rab5s fused with glutathione S-transferase (GST) are presumably in the GDP-bound state, because they hydrolyze bound GTP to GDP during the purification procedure (CITATION), while a considerable amount of wild-type Rab5s should be in the GTP-bound form, because of the high GTP:GDP ratio in yeast cells. We could not detect a stable interaction between VPS9a and ARA6 in the pull-down assay. This result may reflect the more transient association of these molecules. No physical interaction was observed for other subclasses of Rab GTPases, either in the yeast two-hybrid or the pull-down assay (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). From these data, we concluded that VPS9a acts as a specific GEF for all three members of the Arabidopsis Rab5 group in vitro. Arabidopsis mutant lines, in which one of ARA7, RHA1, or ARA6 is knocked out, develop normally and do not show any significant phenotypes (K. Ebine and T. Ueda, unpublished data). In order to understand the importance of Rab5 activation in plant development, we characterized two mutant alleles of VPS9a, vps9a-1 and vps9a-2 (Figure 1A). The vps9a-1 mutant contains a T-DNA insertion in the third exon, which leads to the loss of the Vps9 domain. Thus, this mutant allele should have lost its GEF activity completely. PCR-based genotyping of the progeny derived from self-pollinated heterozygous mutant plants revealed that the homozygous vps9a-1 plant is inviable, whereas the heterozygous mutants were morphologically indistinguishable from wild-type plants. In the seed pods of the heterozygous mutant, ∼25% of seeds (normal:abnormal = 1010:329) were aborted, with small, brownish, and shriveled appearance (Figure 2A ). These abnormal seeds contained small, rudimentary embryos whose development was arrested at the torpedo stage (Figure 2K). A genomic fragment containing the entire VPS9a gene rescued this embryonic-lethal phenotype (Figure 2A). Our results demonstrate that the Rab5 regulator VPS9a plays an essential role during Arabidopsis embryo development. [[FIGURE]] To examine mutant embryogenesis in more detail, we observed the development of embryos in cleared seed pods from the heterozygous vps9a-1 mutants (Figures 2B to 2K). The development of the homozygous vps9a-1 mutant (Figures 2G to 2K) was delayed from the early globular stage, indicating that the function of VPS9a is required from very early stages of embryogenesis (Figures 2B and 2G). To understand the role of VPS9a in postembryonic development, we next characterized a weaker mutant allele of VPS9a, vps9a-2. In this allele, T-DNA is inserted in the fifth exon, which is located behind the Vps9 domain–coding region (Figure 1A). Based on the analysis of transcripts in vps9a-2 by 3′ rapid amplification of cDNA ends, this mutant allele was expected to express an incomplete polypeptide with a molecular mass of 39 kD, which consists of the N-terminal 326 amino acid residues of VPS9a and an additional 15 residues translated from the vector sequence. By immunoblotting, however, only a faint band of 30 kD was detected in the vps9a-2 plant lysate (Figure 2M). Quantitative comparison of the amounts of accumulating products was not possible from this result, because we realized that the anti-VPS9a polyclonal antibody used in this experiment preferentially recognized the C-terminal region of VPS9a (data not shown), but it is likely that the VPS9a-2 protein is unstable and partially degraded in the mutant plants. The vps9a-2 mutant apparently completed embryogenesis normally, but some postembryonic defects were observed in root development. The elongation of the primary root was severely repressed in vps9a-2, and the branching pattern was also affected, causing abnormal architecture of the root system (Figure 2L). The growth retardation of the primary root was observed at 3 d after germination (Figure 3B ), and the average root length of 10-d-old mutant seedlings was 13.0 ± 5.2 mm (n = 20), which was approximately three times shorter than the length of wild-type roots (41.0 ± 2.9 mm [n = 20]) (Figure 3B). The mutant phenotypes of vps9a-2 were complemented by the genomic fragment containing the VPS9a gene (Figures 2L and 3A). These results further demonstrate that VPS9a function is required during postembryonic root growth. [[FIGURE]] Next, we prepared plastic sections of the two mutants of VPS9a and observed them by light microscopy to examine the effects of mutations on tissue and cell structures. As shown in Figures 4A to 4D , the cell file alignment was disordered in both the cotyledon and the hypocotyl in vps9a-1 embryos at the torpedo stage, probably because the patterns of cell division were severely affected. Cells were significantly hypertrophied in such embryos (Figures 4B and 4D), and incomplete cell plates (arrowheads in Figure 4D) and abnormal cell wall depositions (arrows in Figure 4D) were frequently observed. Because similar phenotypes were also observed even in the 1.5-d-old root of the leaky mutant, vps9a-2 (Figures 4G and 4H), at which stage the root elongation defect was not yet apparent, the defects in cell plate formation and cell wall depositions could be direct consequences of the failure to activate Rab5s. These phenotypes were also confirmed by scanning electron microscopy (Figures 4E and 4F). The vps9a-1 embryos showed a bumpier surface, because of hypertrophied cells in disordered alignment. The texture of the cell wall was affected as well: the furrows observed on the cell wall were shallower on the mutant (insets in Figures 4E and 4F), which may be due to the impaired cell wall biogenesis or maintenance in the mutant. [[FIGURE]] To elucidate the effects of the vps9a mutation at the ultrastructural level, we next observed the vps9a-1 embryos at different developmental stages by transmission electron microscopy. The most conspicuous feature observed in the mutant embryos at the early globular stage, when only a little morphological alteration was detectable by light microscopy, was the accumulation of multivesiculated membrane structures associated with the plasma membrane (Figure 5A ). These structures contained vesicular membrane structures between the plasma membrane and the cell wall (Figures 5A, inset, and 5C). Similar membranous structures were also occasionally seen in wild-type embryos, but the frequency was much lower than in the vps9a-1 mutant (0.018 ± 0.0044 paramural bodies [PMBs]/μm plasma membrane in wild-type cells [n = 50] versus 0.16 ± 0.020 PMBs/μm plasma membrane in vps9a-1 cells [n = 67]) (Figure 5D). Similar structures with a much larger size were also observed in mutant cells, which often appeared to be engulfed into vacuoles (Figure 5B). Structures with such characteristic morphology have been described in the literature as PMBs or plasmalemmasomes, whose biogenesis and function have been disputed for a long time (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Our observation in vps9a-1 embryos strongly suggests that the biogenesis of the PMBs should be regulated by Rab5 activity. Other organelles, such as the Golgi apparatus, vacuoles, and the endoplasmic reticulum, showed no significant difference in their structure from those in wild-type cells (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] We also observed the mutant embryos at the torpedo stage, whose development was arrested almost completely. We rarely found PMB-like structures in either mutant or wild-type cells at this stage. Instead, other abnormal membrane structures, such as dense vesicles around the Golgi apparatus (arrowheads in Figure 5E), small cup- or ring-shaped structures (arrows in Figure 5F), and autophagosome-like structures (arrowhead in Figure 5F), were accumulating. The protein storage vacuoles in the mutant cells showed lower electron density than those in the wild-type cells (data not shown). The accumulating Golgi-derived vesicles had a similar electron density to that of protein storage vacuoles observed in wild-type embryos; thus, these vesicles might be intermediates of the storage protein transport from the Golgi to vacuoles. The auxin efflux carrier PIN1 is polarly localized in various tissues and continuously cycles between endosomes and the plasma membrane (CITATION; CITATION). This cycling is dependent on GNOM, a GEF of Arf GTPase, whose function is also essential for the correct localization of ARA7 and RHA1 (CITATION; CITATION). To examine whether the activation of Rab5s catalyzed by VPS9a plays some role in PIN1 trafficking, we examined the PIN1-GFP localization in the vps9a-1 embryos. In cotyledon epidermal cells of wild-type embryos at the heart stage, PIN1-GFP mainly localized on the apical region of the plasma membrane (Figure 6A ) (CITATION). On the other hand, PIN1-GFP lost the polarity and resided on the entire region of the plasma membrane in the cells of the mutant embryos (Figure 6B). In these cells, some punctate structures were also observed on or beneath the plasma membrane. These observations indicate that the activity of VPS9a is also essential for the establishment or maintenance of the polar localization of PIN1. [[FIGURE]] The conventional-type Rab GTPase cycles between cytosol and membranes depending on their nucleotide state. The GDP-bound Rab is held in cytosol by the Rab GDI, and when activated to the GTP-bound state by the GEF, Rab becomes associated with the membrane (CITATION; CITATION). As for the plant-unique ARA6, which recycles between membrane and cytosol independently of Rab GDI (CITATION), the GDP-fixed mutant protein also disperses into cytosol when expressed in Arabidopsis plants (K. Ebine and T. Ueda, unpublished data). Thus, if VPS9a is the major activator of all Rab5 members in Arabidopsis, the defect in its GEF activity will cause the delocalization of all Rab5 members from the endosomal membranes to the cytosol. To test this possibility, we examined the subcellular localization of GFP-tagged Rab5 members in vps9a-1 embryos. To avoid possible mislocalization due to overexpression, we constructed translational fusions of their genomic sequences and GFP. As reported previously (CITATION), GFP-ARA7 and ARA6-GFP localized mainly on punctate organelles in wild-type embryos (Figures 6C and 6E). On the other hand, both GFP-ARA7 and ARA6-GFP showed diffuse localization in mutant embryos (Figures 6D and 6F). These results indicate that ARA6 and ARA7 were not activated properly in the vps9a-1 mutant, which strongly suggests that VPS9a is the direct and apparently the sole activator of both types of Rab5 members in vivo. vps9a-2 mutant plants show defects in primary root elongation and branching pattern. If these are caused by faulty Rab5 activation, the expression of the constitutively active (GTP-fixed) form of Rab5 is expected to alleviate the phenotypes. To verify this hypothesis, we overexpressed GTP-fixed mutants of ARA7 (Q69L) and ARA6 (Q93L) under the regulation of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. As shown in Figure 3, ARA7Q69L clearly suppressed the defect in the primary root elongation of vps9a-2. By contrast, ARA6Q93L had no obvious effect on any vps9a-2 phenotypes, although ARA6Q93L was expressed at a comparable level to ARA7Q69L in suppressed lines (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). As the morphological alteration of endosomes caused by ARA6Q93L (CITATION) was also observed in Arabidopsis plants expressing it (K. Ebine and T. Ueda, unpublished data), ARA6Q93L should be active when expressed in Arabidopsis plants. Thus, our results strongly suggest that the defects in the primary root of vps9a-2 are attributed to the faulty activation of the conventional-type Rab5s. In other words, and more importantly, the physiological functions of the plant-unique ARA6 and the conventional-type ARA7 and RHA1 are clearly differentiated, even though they are all activated by the same GEF, VPS9a.
!~MM~! vps9a-1 (SALK_018174) and vps9a-2 (GABI_557C02) were obtained from the ABRC (CITATION) and GABI-KAT (CITATION), respectively, and backcrossed at least three times with wild-type Arabidopsis thaliana (Columbia). For the complementation analysis, a 6.1-kb genomic fragment subcloned into pGWB1 (a kind gift from T. Nakagawa), which contains 2.8-kb upstream and 1.1-kb downstream sequences of VPS9a, was used to transform vps9a mutants. The translational fusions between GFP and Rab5 members were generated using the technique of fluorescence tagging of full-length proteins (CITATION). The chimeric genes were then subcloned into pGWB1 and introduced into wild-type and mutant plants. For overexpression of ARA6Q93L and ARA7Q69L, we employed pGWB2, which contains a cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and a Nos terminator. The transformation of Arabidopsis plants was performed via floral dipping using Agrobacterium tumefaciens (strain GV3101∷pMP90) (CITATION). VPS9a and Rab proteins, Rab5s (ARA7, RHA1, and ARA6), Rab1 (ARA5), Rab2 (RAB2A), Rab7s (RAB71 and RAB75), Rab11 (ARA4), and Rab18 (RAB18-1), which were fused to GST, were expressed in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) using pGEX 4T-1 vector (GE Healthcare). The cells expressing fusion proteins were collected and resuspended in lysis buffer (50 mM Tris, pH 8.0, 150 mM NaCl, 0.1% mercaptoethanol, and protease inhibitor cocktail [GE Healthcare]), sonicated, and centrifuged at 10,000g for 30 min. Supernatants were loaded onto a glutathione–Sepharose 4B column (GE Healthcare) and washed with 10 column volumes of washing buffer (50 mM Tris, pH 8.0, 500 mM NaCl, and 0.1% mercaptoethanol), and then fusion proteins were eluted with elution buffer (20 mM reduced glutathione, 50 mM Tris, pH 8.0, 150 mM NaCl, and 0.1% mercaptoethanol). GST-tagged VPS9a was used as an antigen to raise the anti-VPS9a polyclonal antibody. The obtained antibody was purified by protein G affinity column chromatography (GE Healthcare). Anti-RHA1 antibody was raised in a rabbit using a synthetic peptide (LPNGPGATAV) and affinity-purified using the same peptide. Anti-ARA6 (CITATION), anti-ARA4 (CITATION), and anti-ARA7 (CITATION) antibodies have been described elsewhere. Nucleotide exchange in the purified GST-tagged Rabs was measured by monitoring the change of autofluorescence from intrinsic Trp accompanying the structural conversion from the inactive to the active state (CITATION; CITATION). Each purified Rab protein was preloaded with GDP and incubated with or without GST-VPS9a in reaction buffer (20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 150 mM NaCl, and 0.5 mM MgCl2) for 100 s at 25°C. Then, GMP-PNP was added to 0.1 mM to start the nucleotide-exchange reaction. The fluorescence shift was detected with a fluorescence spectrophotometer (model F-2500; Hitachi High Technologies) at an excitation wavelength of 298 nm and an emission wavelength of 340 nm. The assay was repeated at least three times for each Rab GTPase. Each Rab GTPase was expressed in yeast strain YPH414 (MATa Δpep4:TRP1 ura3 lys2 ade2 trp1 his3 leu2) under the control of the constitutive TDH3 promoter. Collected cells were collapsed by vortexing with glass beads in PBS plus protease inhibitor cocktail (GE Healthcare) and 1% Triton X-100, and collected lysates were coincubated with GST-VPS9a prebound to glutathione–Sepharose 4B resin (GE Healthcare) for 60 min at room temperature. The protein complexes bound to resins were washed three times and subjected to immunoblot analysis. We confirmed that the results presented here were reproducible by independent assays repeated at least three times. The cDNAs for wild-type Rab and mutant versions of Rab were subcloned into pAD-GAL4-2.1 (Stratagene). The open reading frame of VPS9a was subcloned into pBD-GAL4-GWRFC (from T. Demura at RIKEN). Plasmids containing each Rab and VPS9a were introduced into AH109 strain (Clontech). Empty vectors were used for negative controls. Transformation was performed at least twice independently, and at least three colonies were checked for interaction for each transformation. For whole-mount visualization of embryos, ovules were cleared as described previously (CITATION). For the observation of GFP fluorescence, embryos were mounted in 5% glycerol and observed with a fluorescence microscope (model BX51; Olympus) equipped with a confocal scanner unit (model CSU10; Yokogawa Electric) and a cooled CCD camera (model ORCA-AG; Hamamatsu Photonics). Images were processed with IPLab software (BD Biosciences). For preparing sectioned specimens, samples were processed by a conventional fixation method (CITATION) or a high-pressure freezing and freeze substitution method (CITATION; CITATION). Samples were embedded in Epon 812 or Spurr's resin and sectioned at 60- to 70-nm and 350- to 700-nm thickness for transmission electron microscopy and light microscopy, respectively. Specimens were stained with uranyl acetate and lead citrate (CITATION) for transmission electron microscopy (model JEM-2000FX II; JEOL) and with 0.5% toluidine blue O (Sigma-Aldrich) for light microscopy. For scanning electron microscopy, conventionally fixed samples were dehydrated and then dried with a critical point dryer (model HCP-2; Hitachi High Technologies). Samples were coated with platinum/palladium using an ion coater (model IB-3; EIKO Engineering) and observed with a FE-SEM scanning electron microscope (model JSM-6330F; JEOL). The Arabidopsis Genome Initiative locus identifiers for the genes mentioned in this article are At3g19770 (VPS9a), At5g09320 (VPS9b), At3g54840 (ARA6/RABF1), At5g45130 (RHA1/RABF2a), At4g19640 (ARA7/RABF2b), At3g18820 (RAB71/RABG3f), At1g22740 (RAB75/RABG3b), At2g43130 (ARA4/RABA5c), At1g02130 (ARA5/RABD2a), At4g17170 (RAB2A/RABB1c), and At1g43890 (RAB18-1/RABC1). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. VPS9a Does Not Activate Rab1, Rab2, Rab11, and Rab18 in Vitro. Supplemental Figure 2. VPS9a Does Not Interact with Rab7 and Rab11. Supplemental Figure 3. Constitutively Active ARA7 (ARA7Q69L), but Not ARA6 (ARA6Q93L), Suppresses the vps9a-2 Mutation. Supplemental Figure 4. Alignment of the Switch I Region of Plant Rab GTPases.
