!~ABS~! Abscisic acid (ABA) regulates stomatal closure in response to water loss. Here, we examined the competence of guard cells to synthesize ABA, using two Arabidopsis ABA biosynthetic enzymes. 35S pro::AtNCED3-GFP and AAO3-GFP were introduced into guard cells of broad bean leaves. AtNCED3-GFP expression was detected at the chloroplasts, whereas green fluorescent protein (GFP) and AAO3-GFP were in the cytosol. The stomatal aperture was decreased in AtNCED3-GFP- and AAO3-GFP-transformed guard cells. This indicated that ABA biosynthesis is stimulated by heterologous expression of AtNCED3 and Arabidopsis aldehyde oxidase 3 (AAO3) proteins, which both seem to be regulatory enzymes for ABA biosynthesis in these cells. Furthermore, stomatal closure by the expression of AtNCED3 and AAO3 suggested that the substrates of the enzymes are present and native ABA-biosynthesis enzymes are active in guard cells.
!~RES~! Before the experiment was started, the plant samples for gene introduction were surveyed using a 35S::GFP construct. As Arabidopsis leaves are severely damaged by particle bombardment, and as the guard cells from Arabidopsis leaves are too small for precise measurement of the stomatal aperture, we used broad bean leaves for introducing the GFP-constructs into guard cells. The expression of GFP was detected at 4,135 guard cells per leaf at 650 p.s.i. and 9 cm distance between the gun and sample, which was the most efficient combination of pressure and distance tested (Supplementary Fig. S2). We concluded that broad bean leaves are suitable for gene introduction into guard cells by a particle gun. Using this system, we introduced the 35S promoter-derived GFP, and AtNCED3-GFP, AAO3-GFP chimeric gene constructs, into the guard cells, and we investigated the cellular localization of their gene products by monitoring GFP fluorescence signals. Figure 1 shows confocal laser scanning microscopy images of an exemplary pair of guard cells, of which the gene was expressed in one. Signals of the GFP control and AAO3-GFP were detected in the cytosolic region, while NCED3-GFP was detected at chloroplasts; the green signals were merged with the red signal of autofluorescence of chlorophyll. These results supported the notion that NCED is localized in the plastid and AAO3 in the cytosol, indicating that these fusion proteins were correctly expressed in broad bean guard cells. [[FIGURE]]  Because the lag times for the appearance of the GFP signal were different among the introduced gene constructs, we investigated the timing of GFP expression after the introduction of these genes concomitant with stomatal behaviour. Expression of 35S::GFP was the fastest among these, and, about 8 h after bombardment, relatively strong, green, fluorescence was detected, and a large number of transformed cells with strong fluorescence was observed about 24 h after gene introduction (Fig. 2a). Almost all the stomata, of which the introduced gene was expressed in one guard cell only, showed no difference in half aperture size between un-transformed (An; aperture of non-transformed guard cell) and transformed (At; aperture of transformed guard cell) sides as described in the Methods (also see Supplementary Fig. S3). GFP signals of AtNCED3-GFP appeared slower than the GFP control and were detected continuously about 12–48 h after introduction (Fig. 2b). AAO3-GFP expression was the slowest among the three, occurring about 24–72 h after bombardment (Fig. 2c). The efficiency of the introduction and expression of these fusion proteins was also much lower than that of the GFP control, and only weak fluorescence was detected in cells. However, the clear stimulation of stomatal closure was observed, with those stomata of AtNCED3-GFP and AAO3-GFP expressed. To investigate the relationship between the strength of the GFP signal and stomatal aperture during the time after the introduction, we investigated the half aperture size of stomata at different times after bombardment. The results are shown in Fig. 2. During 1–3 days of the experimental period, about a 20% decrease in the half aperture size was observed in the transformed cell side. These results indicated that the expression of AtNCED3-GFP and AAO3-GFP was relatively stable once they had been expressed. [[FIGURE]]  To investigate the effect of the expression of the introduced genes on stomatal behaviour, 91 (12–24 h after the bombardment), 76 (24–48 h after the bombardment) and 67 (36–72 h after the bombardment) stomata, which had had GFP fluorescence detected in one of the pair of guard cells, were photographed for GFP, AtNCED3-GFP and AAO3-GFP, respectively. Half stomatal apertures of both sides of a pair of guard cells were measured precisely. The aperture values of 35S::GFP gene-introduced At and An guard cells were similar, 0.203 and 0.206, respectively (Fig. 3). As a control, the values of intact leaves were also measured, and these were similar to those of the GFP-introduced stomata (data not shown). Therefore, no effect of bombardment was found on the stomatal aperture size. AtNCED3-GFP expressed stomata had an An value of 0.162 and an At value of 0.135 (83.3% of the An value). AAO3-GFP expression resulted in an An value of 0.209 and an At value of 0.176 (84.2% of the An value). These results showed that the aperture size decreases in gene-introduced guard cells when compared to those of non-introduced cells. When the At value of the GFP control was set to 100%, At values of AtNCED3-GFP and AAO3-GFP expressed cells were 66.3% and 86.3%, respectively. When the An value of the GFP control was set to 100%, An values of AtNCED3-GFP and AAO3-GFP expressed cells were 78.6% and 101.5%, respectively. The results not only indicated that AtNCED3 expression was more efficient in stimulating stomatal closure than AAO3 expression was, but also that ABA synthesized by AtNCED3 over-expression in one guard cell influenced the adjacent non-transformed guard cell. Taken together, this suggests that ABA biosynthetic enzymes translated from the chimera genes possessed their original enzymatic activity and, thus, promoted ABA-synthesis and stomatal closure. This also indicated the occurrence of the ABA precursors and intermediates, such as epoxycarotenoid and abscisic aldehyde, in guard cells. Interestingly, compared with that of AAO3-GFP, the expression of AtNCED3-GFP not only caused the stronger closure of At (about 66% of the GFP control) but also of An (about 79% of the GFP control), suggesting that NCED induced higher levels of ABA production than AAO3, and that the synthesized ABA might be transported to the adjacent guard cell. These results further support the finding that AtNCED3 and, to a lesser extent, AAO3, activity may be limiting for ABA biosynthesis. [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! Arabidopsis plants were grown at 22°C, under light conditions, and fully expanded rosette leaves were used for the bombardment experiments. Broad bean (Vicia faba (L.) cv. Otafuku) seeds that had been left in water overnight were sown and germinated at 22°C in a 10-h light, 14-h dark regime. The leaves used for the bombardment were new and fully expanded third, or newer leaves, of 4 to 6-week-old plants. For gene constructs for bombardment, see Supplementary Fig. S1. The sGFP (S65T) cDNA (Chiu et al. CITATION) and the nopaline synthase (Nos) 39-transcription terminator expressed under 35S promoter were inserted into the pUC18 (35S::GFP pUC18) vector in order to generate a GFP control construct. To form 35S::NCED3-GFP, a NcoI restriction site was added in front of the stop codon of the NCED3 gene by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and this fragment was cloned into a pGEM-T EASY vector (Promega). The NCED3 gene of pGEM-T EASY was sub-cloned into the NcoI site of 35S::GFP pUC18. To yield 35S::AAO3-GFP, the full length AAO3 cDNA was cloned into the pGEM-T EASY vector. The 5′-fragment of the AAO3 cDNA in the pGEM-T EASY vector was transferred into the SphI-NcoI site of pBluescript-sGFP (S65T) nos KS vector. A NcoI restriction site was added in front of the stop codon of the 3′-fragment of the AAO3 cDNA by PCR, and this fragment was cloned into the TOPO vector (Invitrogen). Subsequently, the 3′-fragment of AAO3 was inserted into the NcoI site of pBluescript-5′-AAO3-sGFP nos KS. The 35S promoter of 35S::GFP pUC18 was inserted into the SalI site of pBluescript-AAO3-sGFP nos KS. Gold particles (1.5 mg, 0.6 μm in diameter) coated with 1.2 μg 35S::GFP, 2.5 μg 35S::NCED3-GFP or 2.5 μg 35S::AAO3-GFP were introduced with a particle gun (PDS-1000/He, Bio-Rad) into broad bean leaves placed upside down on agar plates. The expression efficiency of the GFP gene was checked. The greatest number of transformed guard cells per leaf was achieved at 650 p.s.i. and 9 cm distance between the gun and sample (Supplementary Fig. S2). The localization of NCED3-GFP and AAO3-GFP expressed in the broad bean guard cells was observed by confocal laser scanning microscopy (LSM5 Pascal, Carl Zeiss). Excitation and emission wavelengths for GFP were 488 nm and 505–530 nm, respectively. Chlorophyll self-fluorescence was detected with a 560 nm long pass filter. The leaves in which the genes had been inserted by the particle gun were floated back side down on stomatal-opening solution [SOS: 5 mM KCl, 10 mM MES/KOH (pH 6.5), 10 μM CaCl2] in the light and cultured under no osmotic stress. The culture time was 8–24 h for GFP, 12–48 h for NCED3-GFP, and 24–72 h for AAO3-GFP, at which time the expression was found to be the most efficient. After culturing, epidermal peels were observed by fluorescence microscopy (Olympus BX51) using a filter unit (FI/TR Olympus). Images of stomata with relatively strong GFP fluorescence were recorded, and the half aperture sizes of un-transformed (An; aperture of non-transformed) and transformed (At; aperture of transformed) guard cells were measured (Supplementary Fig. S3).
