!~ABS~! Myosins are actin-activated ATPases that use energy to generate force and move along actin filaments, dragging with their tails different cargos. Plant myosins belong to the group of unconventional myosins and Arabidopsis myosin VIII gene family contains four members: ATM1, ATM2, myosin VIIIA and myosin VIIIB. In transgenic plants expressing GFP fusions with ATM1 (IQ-tail truncation, lacking the head domain), fluorescence was differentially distributed: while in epidermis cells at the root cap GFP-ATM1 equally distributed all over the cell, in epidermal cells right above this region it accumulated in dots. Further up, in cells of the elongation zone, GFP-ATM1 was preferentially positioned at the sides of transversal cell walls. Interestingly, the punctate pattern was insensitive to brefeldin A (BFA) while in some cells closer to the root cap, ATM1 was found in BFA bodies. With the use of different markers and transient expression in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves, it was found that myosin VIII co-localized to the plasmodesmata and ER, colocalized with internalized FM4-64, and partially overlapped with the endosomal markers ARA6, and rarely with ARA7 and FYVE. Motility of ARA6 labeled organelles was inhibited whenever associated with truncated ATM1 but motility of FYVE labeled organelles was inhibited only when associated with large excess of ATM1. Furthermore, GFP-ATM1 and RFP-ATM2 (IQ-tail domain) co-localized to the same spots on the plasma membrane, indicating a specific composition at these sites for myosin binding. Taken together, our data suggest that myosin VIII functions differently in different root cells and can be involved in different steps of endocytosis, BFA-sensitive and insensitive pathways, ER tethering and plasmodesmatal activity.
!~RES~! Transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing GFP-ATM1(IQ-tail) were generated. Among tens of seedlings resistant to kanamycin, only one seedling expressed detectable levels of GFP-ATM1(IQ-tail), suggesting some cytotoxicity of the mutant molecule. GFP-ATM1(IQ-tail) was expressed and passed on to subsequent generations but no significant phenotypes or changes in cell morphology relative to wild-type (wt) plants were observed. Interestingly, fluorescence of GFP-ATM1 (IQ-tail) was visible in the roots but almost undetectable in the shoots and leaves. To verify that the chimera is expressed properly, PCR was performed on DNA prepared from the transgenic plants and from wt plants as a control, and compared to PCR of DNA from the plasmid encoding the chimera used to generate the transgenic plants. Figure [F1] shows that the full length of the expected fragment (1734 bp) was detected in the PCR using DNA from transgenic plants similar to the fragment obtained from plasmid DNA. Control plants were negative. Western blot analysis confirmed the expression of the full-length chimera (~57 kDa) and showed that the level of expression of the GFP-ATM1 chimera in transgenic plants is very low compared to the expression of GFP alone in control plants (Figure [F1]). Because of the lack of good anti ATM1 antibodies in our hands, no comparison to endogenous protein's level of expression was done. Confocal-microscope images of roots of the transgenic plants revealed that the chimera GFP-ATM1(IQ-tail) is differentially localized in different cells. While in epidermis cells at the root cap fluorescence was equally distributed all over the cell, in epidermal cells right above this region fluorescence accumulated in dots or aggregates of 850 ± 150 nm in diameter. Further up, in cells of the elongation zone, GFP-ATM1(IQ-tail) was preferentially positioned at transverse cell walls (Figure [F2] and [F2]). This pattern of GFP-ATM1(IQ-tail) subcellular distribution was found in roots of 5-day-old (Figure [F2]) and 20-day-old (Figure [F2] and [F2]) seedlings, including the lateral roots (Figure [F2]) of 20-day-old seedlings. When a three dimension image of figure [F2] was constructed and rotated around its axis, it could be distinguished that the dots were scattered around the cells making it difficult to distinguish between membrane and cytoplasmic specific localization (Additional file [S1]). In root hairs, GFP-ATM1(IQ-tail) also formed a pattern of dots (Figure [F2]). Verification of GFP-ATM1(IQ-tail) expression in transgenic plants. A. PCR was performed using a forward primer corresponding to the 5' end of GFP starting from the ATG and a reverse primer corresponding to the 3' end of ATM1 including its stop codon. The size of the expected fragment was 1734 bp. The template DNA was as follows: Lane 1. DNA from transgenic plants expressing GFP-ATM1(IQ-tail). Lane 2. DNA from wt plants. Lane 3. DNA from the plasmid used to generate the transgenic plants. Lane 4. Molecular weight markers. B. Western blot analysis showing sizes and levels of the expressed transgenes: Lane 1. GFP alone. Lane 2. GFP-ATM1(IQ-tail). Detection was performed with anti-GFP antibody. Differential localization of GFP-ATM1(IQ-tail) in root cells. Serial optic sections (30–70, 0.8 μm apart) of roots were acquired by confocal microscopy. A. Root of 5-day-old seedling. Scale bar: 50 μm. B. Lateral root of 20-day-old seedling. Scale bar: 20 μm. C(1) and C(2). Two images of the same 20-day-old seedling root. C(1) shows the root cap, scale bar: 20 μm, and C(2) shows the upper part. Scale bar: 50 μm. A similar pattern of GFP-ATM1 localization is seen in all roots: diffuse at the root cap, then dots, then more polarized organization along the transverse sides. D. GFP-ATM1 in root hair, scale bar: 10 μm. Arrows show the direction of the root caps. Unlike in several other species where BFA treatment leads to redistribution of Golgi proteins to the ER [[B18]], in Arabidopsis root cells, BFA leads to the formation of BFA-bodies that are derived from endosomal membranes and accumulate endocytosed markers [[B19]-[B22]]. Thus it has been shown that the BFA-sensitive process in Arabidopsis is endosomal trafficking [[B19],[B20],[B22]-[B24]]. Since myosin VIII has been implicated in endocytosis [[B10],[B12],[B13]] we addressed the question of whether BFA treatment would affect the specific subcellular organization of GFP-ATM1(IQ-tail) in the different root cells and whether ATM1 would be found in the BFA bodies. Figure [F3] and [F3] shows that BFA treatment did not disrupt the punctate pattern of ATM1 and no ATM1 was found in the BFA bodies formed in these particular cells; suggesting that here, ATM1's function is BFA-independent. In contrast, in cells closer to the root cap where ATM1 was equally distributed all over the cell before BFA treatment, after BFA treatment it was found in BFA bodies (Figure [F3] and [F3]). This suggests that in these cells, ATM1 is BFA-sensitive and might be involved in endosomal trafficking at specific developmental stages. For comparison and control, transgenic seedling expressing GFP alone were treated with BFA and FM4-64. In these plants GFP was diffused all over the cytoplasm of root cells where BFA bodied were detected (Additional file [S2]). To check whether ATM1 is involved in different steps of endocytosis, we used a variety of different endosomal markers. Association of ATM1 with BFA bodies in specific cells. Seedlings were treated with BFA and FM4-64 and image acquisition was performed with a confocal microscope. A-B. Cells with GFP-ATM1(IQ-tail) organized in dots (arrows). A. GFP-ATM1. B. BFA bodies formed in these cells, shown by FM4-64. Note that the dotted pattern is not disrupted by the treatment (arrows). C. Overlay of A and B. Scale bar 10 μm. D-F Showing cells near the root cap where ATM1 is found in BFA bodies. D. GFP-ATM1, E. BFA bodies stained by FM4-64, F. overlay of D and E. Scale bar 10 μm. All images in this figure are composed of one optic section. When fluorescent chimeras (GFP or RFP) of ATM1(IQ-tail) were transiently expressed in N. benthamiana leaves using Agrobacterium infiltration, fluorescence accumulated as dots (or aggregates of dots) on the plasma membrane of abaxial leaf epidermal cells (Figure [F4]). To verify whether this is a general pattern of localization for myosin VIII members, we checked ATM2, myosin VIIIA and myosin VIIIB. ATM2 and ATM1 gave a similar pattern of dots (590 ± 180 nm in diameter) while myosin VIIIA formed smaller dots (330 ± 50 nm in diameter) (Figure [F4] and [F4]). Myosin VIIIB was very similar to myosin VIIIA (not shown). The vast majority of ATM1 fluorescent dots were stationary but rarely, less than 1% of the dots were motile (Additional file [S3]). The family members of myosin VIII exhibit different expression patterns as shown by genevestigator analysis (Additional file [S4]) [[B25]]. While ATM1 and myosin VIIIA are similarly expressed in most organs, ATM2 and myosin VIIIB are more highly expressed in pollen and to a lesser extent in the stamen and root hairs (Additional file [S4]). It was thus interesting to determine whether the dots formed by ATM1 and ATM2 overlap in N. benthamiana leaves. GFP-ATM1 and RFP-ATM2 were therefore co-expressed in these leaves, and both localized to the same specific spots on the plasma membrane (Figure [F4]). This suggests the existence of specific foci at the plasma membrane that are able to bind both myosins. Interestingly, when the ATM1 fluorescent chimera was co-expressed with an ER marker, ERD2-GFP [[B26]], the punctate labeling pattern of ATM1 correlated with the ER (Figure [F4]). The same picture was observed with ATM2 (not shown). Using aniline blue to stain callose [[B27]], ATM1 was shown to accumulate in plasmodesmata-enriched pit fields (Figure [F4]). To extend our view on the possible involvement of ATM1 in endocytosis the membrane dye FM4-64 was used to follow membrane internalization. ATM1 was found not only at the plasma membrane, but also in the cytoplasm where it co-localized with internalized FM4-64 (Figure [F5]). In addition, fluorescent chimeras of ATM1 were co-expressed with the endosomal markers ARA6-GFP and GFP-ARA7, Rab5 orthologs from Arabidopsis [[B28]], and DsRed-FYVE. The FYVE domain is a conserved protein motif characterized by its ability to bind with high affinity and specificity to phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate (Pi(3)P), a phosphoinositide that is highly enriched in early endosomes [[B29]] and has been shown to co-localize with ARA7 and with internalized FM4-64 in plants [[B30]]. It was found that while FYVE and ARA7 labeled organelles were in the cytoplasm, in less than 1% of the labeled organelles, colocalization with ATM1 was observed (Figure [F5]). Generally, the motility of FYVE and ARA7 labeled organelles was not affected by the presence of truncated ATM1 in the same cell, probably because most of them were not colocalized (Additional file [S5]). However, occasionally both motile organelles co-labeled with FYVE and ATM1 (Additional file [S6]), and motionless FYVE labeled bodies surrounded by excess of GFP-ATM1 could be detected (Additional file [S7]). About 80–90% of ARA6 labeled organelles colocalized with ATM1 at or close to the plasma membrane (Figure [F5]). Importantly, while ARA6 labeled organelles were highly motile in the absence of GFP-ATM1 (additional file [S8]), in the presence of ATM1, all co-labeled organelles, became motionless and only those free from ATM1 remained motile (Additional file [S9]). The above suggests a major role for ATM1 in the function of ARA6 labeled endosomes and a minor role in the function of ARA7/FYVE labeled endosomes [[B31]]. Subcellular localization of myosin VIII in abaxial leaf epidermis cells of N. benthamiana. Fluorescent chimeras were co-expressed by Agrobacterium infiltration. A. GFP-ATM1(IQ-tail). Scale bar 10 μm, 15 optic sections, 0.5 μm apart. B. GFP-ATM2 (IQ-tail) Scale bar 5 μm, 1 optic section. C. GFP-myosin VIIIA (IQ-tail). Scale bar 5 μm, 8 optic sections, 0.5 μm apart. D. GFP-ATM1(IQ-tail). E. RFP-ATM2(IQ-tail). F. Overlay of D and E. Scale bar 1 μm, 1 optic section. G. RFP-ATM1(IQ-tail). H. ERD2-GFP. I. Overlay of G and H. Scale bar 5 μm, 1 optic section. J. GFP-ATM1(IQ-tail). K. Aniline blue labeling of callose accumulated in pit fields. L. Overlay of J and K. Scale bar 5 μm, 1 optic section. ATM1 co-localizes with internalized FM4-64 and with endosomal markers in abaxial leaf epidermis cells of N. benthamiana. Fluorescent chimeras were co-expressed by Agrobacterium infiltration. A. GFP-ATM1(IQ-tail) (dots of 980 ± 145 nm in diameter). B. FM4-64. C. Overlay of A and B (1 optic section). D. GFP-ATM1(IQ-tail) (dots of 630 ± 60 nm). E. FYVE-DsRED. F. Overlay of D and E (1 optic section). G. RFP-ATM1(IQ-tail) (dots of 300 ± 100, colored green for ease of demonstration). H. GFP-ARA7 (colored magenta for ease of demonstration). I. Overlay of G and H (1 optic section). J. RFP-ATM1(IQ-tail) (dots of 570 ± 75 nm, colored green for ease of demonstration). K. ARA6-GFP (colored magenta for ease of demonstration). L. Overlay of J. and K (1 optic section). Arrows show co-localization. Scale bars 5 μm. The microscope focus in A-I was in the cytoplasm while the focus in J-L was on the plasma membrane.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Col-0 were seeded on MS (Murashige & Skoog) media, incubated 4 days at 4°C in the dark and then transferred to a growth room at 24°C under 16 h light/8 h dark. After 7–10 days, seedlings were transferred to pots with peat and grown in a temperature-controlled (23°C) greenhouse under continuous light. Nicotiana benthamiana plants were grown in peat in a controlled growth room at 25°C with optimum light for 16 h daily. In order to fuse the IQ-tail domain of ATM1 to GFP, we used a cDNA clone kindly provided by Dieter Volkmann (University of Bonn, Germany) and the following primers: Fwd-GGG GTA CCC GTA CTC TCC ACG GCA TT and Rev-CGG GAT CCG TGC TTG GGA ATG CTG CC. The resulting fragment was ligated downstream of GFP using KpnI and BamHI into the plasmid ART7 containing GFP with a linker of 10XAla at its C terminus. Similarly, ATM1 was ligated to ART7 containing RFP cherry [[B63]] with a linker of 10XAla at its C terminus. The ATM2 IQ-tail domain was isolated from Arabidopsis RNA using RT-PCR and the following primers: Fwd-GGG GTA CCA GGA AAA AGG TTC TTC AAG GC and Rev-CGG GAT CCC TAG CCT CTT TTT CCC CA. Similar clones of myosin VIIIA were isolated using these primers: Fwd-GGGGTACCCAGA TTGGGGTTCTTGAAGAT, and Rev-CGGGATCCTTAATACCTAGTA CTCCTCAA. And for myosinVIIIB Fwd-GGGGTACCGTAATTAGCG TCCTTGAGGAA, and Rev-CGGGATCCTCAATAACTTTTCTTGCACCA. These were fused to either GFP or RFP as described for ATM1. The entire expression cassettes containing the fluorescent chimeras under the regulation of the 35S promoter were then transferred to the binary vector pART27 using a NotI cleavage. The plasmid encoding DsRED-FYVE was provided by Josef Samaj from the University of Bonn [[B30]]. Plasmids encoding GFP fusions of ARA7 and ARA6 were provided by Takashi Ueda from RIKEN, Japan [[B28]]. The plasmid encoding the GFP fusion of the H/KDEL receptor, ERD2-GFP, was provided by Chris Hawes from Oxford Brookes University, UK [[B26]]. DNA was prepared as follows: two to three fresh mature leaves were ground in liquid nitrogen to a fine powder and dissolved in a mixture containing: extraction buffer (350 mM sorbitol, 100 mM Tris PH 7.5, 5 mM EDTA pH 7.5), Nuclei lysis buffer (200 mM Tris PH 7.5, 50 mM EDTA, 2 M NaCl, 2% CTAB) and 5% N-lauroylsarcosine at 1:1:0.4 ratio. After 15 min incubation at 65°C, chloroform/isoamylalcohol extraction was performed. DNA was precipitated in isopropanol and re-suspended in sterile ddH2O. Total RNA was prepared as follows: 2.5 gr of plant tissue was ground in liquid nitrogen to a fine powder and incubated 10 min in 20 ml hot (65°C) CTAB buffer (2% PVP, 2% CTAB, 2 M NaCl, 25 mM EDTA PH8, 0.1 M Tris PH8). Chloroform/isoamylalcohol extraction was followed and RNA was precipitated in 2.5 M LiCl. The pellet was re-dissolved in SSTE buffer (1 mM EDTA, 10 mM Tris PH8 1 M NaCl, 0.5% SDS) and additional chloroform/isoamylalcohol extraction was performed. RNA was precipitated in ethanol and NH4Ac and the pellet was dissolved in sterile double distilled ddH2O. Poly-A RNA was isolated using Oligotex kit of Qiagen (Cat No. 7002) according to the manufacturer's instructions. RT-PCR was performed using the SuperScript reverse transcriptase of Invitrogen (Cat No. 18064-022). The amount of 250 mg of seedlings of transgenic plants was grinded to a fine powder in liquid nitrogen. The powder was boild in 200 μl of Laemmli's protein sample buffer [[B64]] for 10 min and then centrifuged 10 min at 14 krpm in room temp. A sample (30 μl) of the extract was separated on SDS-PAGE and blotted onto a nitrocellulose membrane. GFP fusion proteins were detected with anti GFP antibody (Santa Cruz), and a secondary HRP conjugated antibody (Jacksom ImmunoResearch). For chemiluminescent reaction, the SuperSignal kit (Pierce) was used. An IX81/FV500 laser-scanning microscope (Olympus) was used to observe fluorescently labeled cells. The following filter sets were used: for observing GFP, 488 nm excitation and BA505-525; RFP, 543 nm excitation and BA610; FM4-64, 488 or 515 nm excitation and BA660. The objective used was PlanApo 60 × 1.00 WLSM 8/0.17. To observe aniline blue we used 405 nm excitation and BA430-460, using objective UPlanSApo 60 × 1.35 oil, 8/0.17 FN26.5. When GFP and RFP were detected in the same sample, we used DM (dichroic mirror) 488/543 and when aniline blue was added, DM 405/488/543/633 was used. In all cases, where more than one color was monitored, sequential acquisition was performed. FM4-64 (Molecular Probes) staining was performed at a final concentration of 8 μM for 5–20 min. Callose was stained by incubating leaf segments for 40 min in a mixture of 0.1% aniline blue in ddH2O and 1 M glycine, pH 9.5, at a volumetric ratio of 2:3, and pre-mixed for at least 1 d before use [[B27]]. BFA (Sigma) was used at a final concentration of 50 μM for 50 min. in the presence of 4 μM of FM4-64. The fluorescent chimeras were expressed using Agrobacterium infiltration. Briefly: Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 was transformed with the plasmid and grown at 28°C for 48 h. Bacterial culture originating from one colony was grown, precipitated and dissolved to an OD600 of 0.5 in the following buffer: 50 mM MES, pH 5.6, 0.5% glucose, 2 mM NaPO4 and 100 μM acetosyringone (cat. no. D13440-6, Sigma Aldrich). Leaves of 3-week-old N. benthamiana plants were infiltrated with the bacterial culture using a 1-ml syringe. Expression of the fluorescent chimera in the leaf cells was detectable after 24 h, peaking at 48 h. Arabidopsis plants were transformed as previously described [[B65]]. A culture of Agrobacterium GV3101 was grown in 1 liter of LB for 24 h at 28°C. The bacteria were precipitated at 5000 rpm for 15 min and dissolved to an OD600 of 0.8 in the following buffer: 5% sucrose, 10 mM MgCl2, and 0.044 μM BA (benzylamino purine). The detergent Silwet L-77 (LHELE SEEDS Texas USA) was added to a final concentration of 0.03%. Plants at the closed-flower-bud stage were dipped in the Agrobacterium solution for 5 min. The plants were then covered with plastic bags and transferred to controlled growth conditions. After 48 h, the bags were removed and after 1 month, seeds were collected. Seeds were sterilized in 1% NaClO for 5 min and washed three times with sterile H2O. Seeds (~5000) were plated on 10-cm Petri dishes with MS, the relevant antibiotics and 500 μg/ml claforan (Aventis) to prevent Agrobacterium growth. Antibiotic-resistant seedlings were transferred to a new Petri dish and scanned for GFP or RFP expression under a fluorescent binocular.
