!~ABS~! Analyzing highly hydrophobic proteins is a challenge for identification protocols based on gel separation and mass spectrometry. We combined Blue Native and 2D tricine gel electrophoresis to allow separation and identification of respiratory complex subunits from Arabidopsis mitochondria. We identified many of the highly hydrophobic mitochondrion-encoded subunits (GRAVY scores between +0.6 to +1.4) and also found a number of nucleus-encoded proteins associated with complex I for the first time in plants.
!~RES~! Separation of mitochondrial membrane protein complexes by BN-PAGE allows the resolution of intact electron transport chain complexes based on their apparent molecular mass. A subsequent second dimension using SDS-PAGE facilitates separation and analysis of the subunits composition of each complex.CITATION A separation of Arabidopsis mitochondrial proteins by BN-PAGE reveals several complexes (Figure CITATIONA). The identification of the three abundant high molecular mass complexes was confirmed by analysis of in-gel trypsin digestions of each by mass spectrometry (data not shown). The largest complex (about 1000 kDa) correspond to the NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase, complex I. Eighteen bands are detected in the second dimension SDS-PAGE. The second major complex corresponds to the mitochondrial ATP synthase (∼600 kDa), which separates into 7 visible bands on SDS-PAGE. The third major complex is the ubiquinol-cytochrome c oxidoreductase (complex III, ∼500 kDa), which resolves into 10 bands on SDS-PAGE (Figure CITATIONB). To further resolve these complexes, mitochondrial extracts were again separated by BN-PAGE, and the bands corresponding to complexes I, V, and III were excised. After denaturation, the proteins present in these bands were then separated on 2D diagonal gels as describe by Rais et al.CITATION These BN/SDS/SDS-PAGE gels further separated the subunits of complexes I (Figure CITATIONA), III (Figure CITATIONB), and V (Figure CITATIONC), and in each case we visualized more spots than were apparent on BN/SDS-PAGE (Figure CITATIONB). A total of 37 spots were observed on BN/SDS/SDS-PAGE of complex I (Figure CITATIONA), compared to only 18 distinguishable bands in our BN/SDS-PAGE (Figure CITATIONB), previous reports have resolved 30 bands from potato complex I on BN/SDS-PAGE.CITATION The 37 spots from Arabidopsis complex I were excised from the gel, digested by trypsin, and analyzed by tandem mass spectrometry. We identified 44 different proteins, which represented 42 different complex I subunits and included seven of the nine mitochondrial encoded subunits and 33 nuclear encoded subunits (Table CITATION). Five of the highly hydrophobic mitochondrion-encoded subunits were identified (ND1, ND2, ND4, ND5, and ND6 all with GRAVY scores > +0.7). The annotation of complex I components in the Arabidopsis nuclear and mitochondria genomes has been undertaken by homology searches to known complex I components in other organisms.CITATION A significant number of them were previously identified in analysis of complex I preparations separated by BN/SDS-PAGE.CITATION Here we have confirmed these and also provide experimental evidence for the presence of a number of subunits annotated by homology as complex I subunits but not directly identified by Heazlewood et al.CITATION These were the mitochondrion-encoded subunits ND2, ND4 (spot 6), and ND6 (spot 17) and the nucleus-encoded proteins homologous to B14.7 subunit (spot 18), PGIV subunit (spot 23), ASHI subunit (spot 30), and AGGG subunit (spot 34). The identification of ND6 by mass spectrometry is especially interesting, because the orthologue of this protein could not be identified by a variety of mass spectrometry studies of the mammalian complex I.CITATION A detailed comparison of the amino acid sequences of ND6s from a variety of organisms reveals the Arabidopsis ND6 contains a significant C-terminal extension compared to mammalian orthologues. This extension contains several arginine and lysine residues, and several peptides are predicted from a tryptic digestion. Moreover the Arabidopsis ND6 loop 3 contains several basic amino acids not present in the mammal ND6 sequences (Figure CITATION). In our analysis we identified two peptides specific to ND6, one in loop 3 and one in the C-terminal extension. No equivalent of these peptides would be produced from trypsin digestion of the human or bovine ND6. When analyzing spot 22 (Figure CITATIONA), no protein matches were identified using the standard protein database for Arabidopsis derived from the TAIR7 genome annotation (released in March 2007). However, a match was obtained to an entry in Genbank (GI: AAG00242) for a theoretical open reading frame (ORF) from chromosome 1 of Arabidopsis. This entry represents a predicted 98 amino acid protein with a molecular mass of 11.78 kDa, which matches the location of the spot on the gel. Further analysis revealed this ORF is now annotated as the gene At1g67350, but that the current TAIR7 protein set shows this sequence translated in frame 2, whereas both peptides identified are from translation in frame 3. This strongly suggests the current TAIR annotation of protein sequence is in error. We identified three proteins (spots 28, 33, and 35) encoded by nuclear genes (At1g68680, At2g02510, and At1g67785, respectively) that were not annotated as complex I subunits and have not previously been found in plant complex I preparations. Two of these proteins (At1g68680 and At1g67785) appear to be new plant-specific proteins associated with complex I as no homologues can be identified in mammals or fungal genomes. These new identifications increase the number of plant-specific proteins associated with complex I to 13. The third protein (At2g02510) has a low level of homology with the B12 subunit of bovine complex I and the 6.5 kDa subunit of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii complex I. As a homologue of this subunit was previously found in rice complex I,CITATION this protein can now be considered the Arabidopsis orthologue of the B12 subunit of mammalian complex I. We were unable to identify the protein corresponding to two spots present on our gel (spots 24 and 37). These spots are located above the diagonal, indicating that the corresponding proteins are likely to be hydrophobic. They might correspond to ND3 (AtMg00990) and ND4L (AtMg00650), respectively. These subunits are encoded by the mitochondrial genome and are highly hydrophobic (GRAVY scores of 0.892 for ND3 and 1.348 for ND4L). We have attempted several different protocols for the identification of these proteins. We have tried to digest these gel plugs with trypsin prepared in 50% acetonitrile and combined trypsin/pepsin digestion in order to reduce the possible binding of tryptic peptides and produce different peptides for analysis. We have tried to directly load digestion products onto the C18 column online to the mass spectrometer to avoid concentration of peptides by evaporation that might lead to peptide insolubility. We have also altered our mass spectrometry analysis to determine if microspray versus nanospray flow rates might increase the sensitivity of the detection of these peptides. We also prepared samples for analysis using MALDI-TOF-TOF in attempts to find peptides that are not apparent during electrospray ionization. Unfortunately, all of these methods were unsuccessful, and thus these spots can be visualized but cannot be identified to date. Among all of the proteins currently annotated in Arabidopsis as complex I subunits based on sequence similarity, only four subunits were not found in our 3D gels of complex I: the Acyl Carrier Protein (mtACP, At2g44620, At1g65290, At5g47630), the 13 kDa subunit (At3g03070), the B22 subunit (At4g34700), and a putative plant-specific component (At1g14450).CITATION The first three subunits have been previously identified as proteins present in Arabidopsis mitochondria by complex mixture mass spectrometryCITATION but have not been localized within the mitochondrion. We demonstrated recently that Arabidopsis complex I does not appear to contain the mtACPs, but they are soluble proteins in the mitochondrial matrix.CITATION The location of the 13 kDa and the B22 subunit proteins in Arabidopsis mitochondria remains unknown. The At1g14450 protein was identified in a gel spot excised from a 600 kDa band containing other complex I subunits that was present on a 2D-BN-PAGE gel after destabilization of complex I by dodecylmaltoside.CITATION We have not currently been able to confirm this finding. In our gels two spots (spots 7 and 8) corresponded to prohibitins, mitochondrial proteins that form a large complex very close to the size of complex I; however, these proteins are not part of complex I and are present here as contaminants due to their abundance. In our hands, 13 different proteins spots can be separated from complex V (Figure CITATIONB) compared to the 7 bands observed on BN/SDS-PAGE (Figure CITATIONB). Spot 42 was clearly above the diagonal, suggesting it is likely to be a hydrophobic component of the complex. Compared to the previously published composition of complex V from Arabidopsis,CITATION we have experimentally identified 3 more Arabidopsis proteins: ATP17 (At4g30010), ATP6 (AtMg00410, AtMg01170), and ATP 6 kDa subunit (At3g46430/At5g59613). ATP17 is annotated as a subunit of the mitochondrial F1FO ATP synthase according to its sequence similarity to the f subunit of mammal ATP synthase but has not previously been experimentally shown to be a component of the complex in plants. ATP6 is the only mitochondrion-encoded ATP synthase subunit that has not previously been shown experimentally to be present in the complex by direct mass spectrometry analysis in plants. Previous attempts to find this protein in preparations of the ATP synthase complex from Arabidopsis failed,CITATION and it was only revealed here by its deviation from the diagonal and a single high quality spectrum of a peptide from the loop between the first and second transmembrane domain. AtMg00410 and AtMg01170 are predicted to encode ∼40 kDa ATP6 proteins, which contain a ∼100–130 AA hydrophilic N-terminal presequence region followed by 5 transmembrane domains.CITATION The mature ATP6 protein is thus predicted to be ∼29 kDa and highly hydrophobic (GRAVY score >1.1) and is a subunit of the FO portion of complex V. The ATP6 protein appears to be only 20–25 kDa on this gel separation (spot 42), consistent with the proposed removal of a large N-terminal presequence.CITATION The plant-specific ATP 6 kDa subunit was previously identified in the F1FO ATP synthase of potatoCITATION and rice.CITATION Here we have found the Arabidopsis homologue of this protein in the same respiratory complex. This protein may be analogous to one of the small peripheral ATP synthase proteins in yeast; although sequence similarity searches fail to define which one, it is likely that protein structure may be more important than sequence in these small (<10 kDa) subunits. Yeast mitochondrial ATP synthases also contain a g subunit.CITATION In Arabidopsis, three nuclear genes (ATP20-1 (At2g19680), ATP20-2 (At4g26210), and ATP20-3 (At4g29480)) are annotated as encoding homologues for this g subunit. None of these gene products were identified in our 3D gel of complex V and no unidentified spots could be assigned to a putative g subunit. Interestingly, ATP20 subunit was also not identified in complex V in previous studies in ArabidopsisCITATION or rice,CITATION but ATP20-3 was previously identified on a BN-SDS-PAGE detached from complex V.CITATION This indicates that either complex V does not contain a g subunit in plants or these g subunit-like proteins are released during the solubilization procedure. As it now appears the g subunit may be specific for the dimeric ATP synthase,CITATION it makes sense that it is absent from the monomeric ATP synthase separated in our Blue Native gels. A total of 10 spots were observed on BN/SDS/SDS-PAGE of complex III (Figure CITATIONC). On the BN/SDS-PAGE, 13 bands are observed (Figure CITATIONB), and some of these bands could correspond to degradation products. The analysis of complex III composition confirms the presence of 10 subunits (Table CITATION). We did not find evidence for the “hinge” protein, QCR6 (At1g15120/At2g01090), a predicted subunit of complex III in Arabidopsis based on the presence of a homologue of this protein in the potato complex III.CITATION The hydrophobic mitochondrial encoded COB subunit (AtMg00220) is the only highly hydrophobic subunit of this complex and the only subunit to move off the diagonal in the analysis of this complex. We also found the ATP synthase 6 kDa protein (At3g46430/At5g59613) in spot 46, which would appear to be a contamination from complex V. A number of the subunits of these three respiratory complexes are encoded by multiple genes in Arabidopsis giving rise to distinct, but highly similar proteins. There are six subunits in complex I encoded in two gene copies (B16.6, PGIV, PDSW, 15 kDa, 23 kDa, NDU12) along with the five isoforms of the plant specific carbonic anhydrase-like proteins. Six of the ten complex III subunits are encoded in two gene copies (Cyc1, MPP alpha, QCR6, QCR7, UCR1 and UCRQ). There are also four subunits of complex V encoded by multiple genes in Arabidopsis, namely the tandem triplicated ATP beta subunit genes on chromosome 2, three copies of the putative ATP20-like proteins, two copies of the plant specific ATP 6 kDa subunit and two copies of the mitochondrial encoded ATP6. As the stoichiometry of most of these subunits in each complex is established (and in all but a few cases a single copy is present per complex), the presence of multiple isoforms of a subunit would suggest that a heterogeneous collection of respiratory complexes was present. In some cases we have clear mass spectrometry evidence for multiple isoforms, while in others the spectra do not distinguish the isoforms present (Table CITATION). Therefore, a more detailed examination of the evidence for the presence of multiple isoforms is presented in Table CITATION. The isoforms of PDSW are encoded by At1g49140 and At3g18410; they are 94% identical at the protein sequence level and differ by only 6 amino acid residues. We found a series of spectra in spot 20 that matched to both of these proteins, but also high scoring spectra to the peptides HLVQQYLDATR and HLVQQYLDSTR that specifically differentiate them. These peptides differ in mass by 16 amu as a result of the serine to alanine substititution, and the 16 amu difference can be clearly seen both in the parent mass of the doubly charged ions and also in the extended y ion series in both spectra (Table CITATION; Figure 1, CITATION). The isoforms of NDU12 encoded by At2g42310 and At3g57785 are 91% identical at the protein sequence level and differ by 10 amino acid residues. Each isoform was identified by three independent spectral matches. In one case these matches were gene-specific, identifying the peptides TPPAPGQSR and TPPPPGQSR, respectively. The 26 amu difference between them due to an alanine to proline substitution can be a seen in the parent mass, but also in the y ion series in the tandem spectra. In both spectra an identical y series up to y5 is observed, then it diverges by 26 amu with good singly and doubly charged y6 to y8 series ions in each case (Table CITATION; Figure 1, CITATION). Genevestigator dataCITATION show that At2g42310 is expressed at higher levels than At3g57785 in most Arabidopsis tissues. Despite low expression levels, At3g57785 is the dominant isoforms in stamen and pollen where At2g42310 transcripts are not detected. The isoforms of cytochrome c1 encoded by At3g27240 and At5g40810 are 93% identical and contain 21 amino acid differences. Each isoform was present in spot 41 as evidenced by 4 high scoring spectra matching to gene-specific spectra for each product. Genevestigator dataCITATION show that both isoforms are expressed in most Arabidopsis tissues at relatively similar levels. The isoforms of QCR7 encoded by At4g32470 and At5g25450 are 82% identical and contain 23 amino acid differences. Both isoforms were shown to be present in spot 43 by six gene-specific matches to At4g32470 and four gene-specific matches to At5g25450. Genevestigator dataCITATION show that At4g32470 is the dominant transcript in most tissues. At5g25450 is normally present at lower levels in most tissues but is induced and can equal or exceed expression of At4g32470 during biotic and abiotic stress (e.g., heat shock, brassinolide treatment, P. syringe infection), in dry seeds, and during the early stages of seed imbibition (1 h and 3 h). The different subunits of each complex appear to be dispersed from the diagonal line of the gels according to their relative hydrophobicity. Plotting separation from the diagonal against GRAVY score shows that proteins with GRAVY scores above 0.5 are significantly separated from the diagonal (Figure CITATION). The only highly hydrophobic protein whose migration did not appear to be affected was ATP9 (spot 50). Using this approach, we can obtain a better separation of these complexesʼ subunits compared to standard methods such as BN-SDS-PAGE. This has aided the definition of the composition of the tested complexes using mass spectrometry, as proteins having the same molecular weight can be separated from each other according to their relative hydrophobicity using this approach. In our analysis over 90% of spots corresponded to a single protein indicating the degree of resolution achieved by the three gel dimensions. Having a spot that contains only one protein provides low complexity for mass spectrometry analysis leading to a higher sequence coverage and aids in the hunting through unassigned spectra for identification of putative peptide modifications. Also, as extremely hydrophobic proteins separate from the diagonal in a predictable manner, this behavior can be used to focus the extra effort and use of modified protocols that are normally required to identify these proteins. Because this technique displays a wider range of subunits and would allow quantitation of individual subunit abundance on gels, it can also be applied to analyze the composition of subcomplexes, the behavior of a complex under different physical conditions, and modifications of the subunit composition in a mutant background or after a specific treatment.
!~MM~! Protoplasts were isolated from 7-day-old cell cultures.CITATION Mitochondria were purified by differential centrifugations followed by Percoll step gradients.CITATION The concentration of purified mitochondria was adjusted to 5 mg/mL. Blue-Native gel electrophoresis (BN-PAGE) is used to separate complexes under native conditions.CITATION The BN-PAGE was performed according to Jänsch et al.CITATION The gels consisted of a separating gel (4.5–16% (w/v) acrylamide) and a stacking gel (4% (w/v) acrylamide); 500 µg of total mitochondrial proteins was solubilized in ACA buffer (750 mM aminocaproic acid, 0.5 mM EDTA, 50 mM Bis-Tris pH 7.0) containing 1% n-dodecylmaltoside. After addition of Coomassie Blue G250, the solubilized mitochondria were loaded on the gel. Gels were run at 100 V for 45 min and then at 15 mA for 6 h. After 3 h, the cathode buffer was replaced by a cathode buffer without Coomassie Blue in order to increase the contrast between the bands and the background of the gel. For the second dimension, a lane of the BN-gel was cut and incubated in 1% (w/v) SDS/1% (v/v) β-mercaptoethanol for 1 h. After a rapid rinse with water the lane was loaded on top of a 12% glycine-SDS-PAGE. The gel was stained with colloidal Coomassie Blue. Bands corresponding to complexes I, III, and V were excised from a BN gel and incubated for 1 h in a 1% (w/v) SDS /1% (v/v) β-mercaptoethanol solution. The gel pieces were rapidly washed in water and loaded on top of a 10% tricine-SDS-PAGE containing 6 M urea. After he migration gel strips corresponding to each complex were cut and incubated in acidic solution (100 mM Tris, 150 mM HCl, pH > 2). The strips were then loaded on top of a 16% tricine-SDS-PAGE. The gap between the strip and the gel was filled with a 10% acrylamide mixture. The gels were stained with colloidal Coomassie Blue. The protein samples to be analyzed were cut from the gels and destained twice for 45 min in 10 mM NH4CO3 and 50% (v/v) acetonitrile. Samples were dehydrated at 50 °C in a dry block heater for 30 min, rehydrated with 15 µL of digestion solution (10 mM NH4CO3 and 12.5 µg/mL trypsin in 0.01% trifluoroacetic acid) and incubated overnight at 37 °C. Peptides were extracted by adding 15 µL of acetonitrile and shaking vigorously for 15 min, removing the liquid, and adding 15 µL of 50% acetonitrile and 5% formic acid to the gel plugs followed by another 15 min of shaking (this step was repeated); washes were pooled after each extraction step and dried. Samples were resuspended in 5% acetonitrile and 0.1% formic acid and were loaded onto one of two mass spectrometers: 1. Samples were analyzed on a QStar Pulsar i MS/MS system fitted with an IonSpray source (Applied Biosystems) using an Agilent Technologies 1100 capillary liquid chromatography (LC) system incorporating a Zorbax 0.3 × 150 mm C18 (5 µm, 70 Å) reverse-phase column (Agilent Technologies) for peptide separations. Peptides were analyzed by MS over a 7 min elution period with increasing acetonitrile concentrations from 5% to 60% (v/v) in water and 0.1% (v/v) formic acid at 4 µL/min. Ions were selected automatically for the N2 collision cell utilizing the Information Dependant Acquisition (IDA) capabilities of Analyst QS v1.1 (Applied Biosystems) and the rolling collision energy feature for automated collision energy determination based on the ions m/z. The method employed a 1 s TOF MS scan, which automatically switched (using IDA) to a 2 s Product Ion scan (MS/MS) when a target ion reached an intensity of greater that 50 counts and its charge state was identified as 2+, 3+, or 4+. TOF MS scanning was undertaken on an m/z range of 400–1600 m/z using a Q2 transmission window of 380 amu (100%). Product Ion scans were undertaken at m/z ranges of 70–2000 m/z at low resolution utilizing Q2 transmission windows of 50 amu (33%), 190 amu (33%), and 650 amu (34%). The resulting MS/MS-derived spectra were exported from Analyst QS software using the “mascot.dll 1.6b21 for Analyst QS 1.1” script available from Matrix Science. The settings used for spectral export were centroid the survey scan ions (TOF MS) at a height percentage of 50% and a merge distance of 0.1 amu (for charge state determination), centroid MS/MS data at a height percentage of 50% and a merge distance of 2 amu, reject a CID if less than 10 peaks, and discard ions with charge equal to or greater than 5+. 2. Samples were analyzed on a XCT Ultra IonTrap mass spectrometer with an ESI source equipped with a low flow nebulizer in positive mode and controlled by Chemstation (Rev B.01.03 [204], Agilent Technologies) and MSD Trap Control v6.0 (Build 38.15) software (Bruker Daltonik GmbH). Peptides were eluted from a self-packed Microsorb (Varian Inc.) C18 (5 µm, 100 Å) reverse phase columns (0.5 × 50 mm) using an Agilent Technologies 1100 series capillary liquid chromatography system at 10 µL/min using a 9 min acetonitrile gradient (5–60%) in 0.1% formic acid at a regulated temperature of 50 °C. The method used for initial ion detection utilized a mass range of 200–1400 m/z with scan mode set to Standard (8100 m/z per second) and a Ion Charge Control (ICC) conditions set at 250 000 and 3 Averages taken per scan. Smart mode parameter settings were employed using a Target of 800 m/z, a Compound Stability factor of 90%, a Trap Drive Level of 80%, and Optimize set to Normal. Ions were selected for MS/MS after reaching an intensity of 80 000 cps, and two precursor ions were selected from the initial MS scan. MS/MS conditions employed SmartFrag for ion fragmentation, a scan range of 70–2200 m/z using an average of 3 scans, the exclusion of singly charged ions option, and ICC conditions set to 200 000 in Ultra scan mode (26 000 m/z per second). Resulting MS/MS spectra were exported from the DataAnalysis for LC/MSD Trap version 3.3 (Build 149) software package (Bruker Daltonik GmbH) using default parameters for AutoMS(n) and compound Export. Output files were analyzed against an in-house Arabidopsis database comprising ATH1.pep (release 7) from The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR) and the mitochondrial and plastid protein sets (TAIR). This sequence database contained a total of 30 700 protein sequences (12 656 682 residues). Searches were conducted using the Mascot search engine version 2.1.04 (Matrix Science) utilizing error tolerances of ±1.2 for MS and ±0.6 for MS/MS, “Max Missed Cleavages” set to 1, the Oxidation (M), Carboxymethyl (C), variable modifications and the Instrument set to ESI-Q-TOF or ESI-TRAP, and Peptide charge set at 2+ and 3+. Results were filtered using “Standard scoring”, “Max. number of hits” set to 20, “Significance threshold” at p < 0.05, and “Ions score cutoff” at 0. Protein matches with >1 peptide or a single peptide with an ion score >37 were considered positive matches. For protein matches with a single peptide and an ion score <37, the spectra were manually inspected to confirm a positive match. Peptide–ion scores for each match, manual inspections of selected spectra, and peak lists for independent analysis are in CITATION.
