!~ABS~! Squalene synthase (SQS) catalyzes the condensation of two molecules of farnesyl diphosphate (FPP) to produce squalene (SQ), the first committed precursor for sterol, brassinosteroid, and triterpene biosynthesis. Arabidopsis thaliana contains two SQS-annotated genomic sequences, At4g34640 (SQS1) and At4g34650 (SQS2), organized in a tandem array. Here we report that the SQS1 gene is widely expressed in all tissues throughout plant development, whereas SQS2 is primarily expressed in the vascular tissue of leaf and cotyledon petioles, and the hypocotyl of seedlings. Neither the complete A. thaliana SQS2 protein nor the chimeric SQS resulting from the replacement of the 69 C-terminal residues of SQS2 by the 111 C-terminal residues of the Schizosaccharomyces pombe SQS were able to confer ergosterol prototrophy to a Saccharomyces cerevisiae erg9 mutant strain lacking SQS activity. A soluble form of SQS2 expressed in Escherichia coli and purified was unable to synthesize SQ from FPP in the presence of NADPH and either Mg2+ or Mn2+. These results demonstrated that SQS2 has no SQS activity, so that SQS1 is the only functional SQS in A. thaliana. Mutational studies revealed that the lack of SQS activity of SQS2 cannot be exclusively attributed to the presence of an unusual Ser replacing the highly conserved Phe at position 287. Expression of green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged versions of SQS1 in onion epidermal cells demonstrated that SQS1 is targeted to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane and that this location is exclusively dependent on the presence of the SQS1 C-terminal hydrophobic trans-membrane domain.
!~RES~! As a first approach to analyze the pattern of expression driven by the A. thaliana SQS1 and SQS2 promoters, we defined the regions of these promoters containing elements that are important for transcriptional activity. This was carried out by transient expression of different SQS1 and SQS2 promoter-GUS chimeric genes in A. thaliana protoplasts and GUS activity measurements in the corresponding protein extracts. The full-length promoter sizes were set at positions −1852 and −1037 with respect to the ATG start codon of SQS1 and SQS2, respectively, and a series of 5′-deletions was prepared for each promoter as well. The 3′-end of each SQS1 promoter fragment ended at the ATG start codon of the gene and was fused with the ATG start codon of the GUS reporter gene, whereas the 3′ region of each SQS2 promoter fragment contained the sequence coding for the first 9 amino acids of SQS2, which was fused in-frame with the ATG start codon of the GUS coding sequence. Results shown in Fig. 1b indicated that the SQS1 promoter region extending from positions −1852 to −616 contains sequences whose deletion has a profound effect on promoter activity, either inhibitory (−1852 to −1332 and −710 to −616) or stimulatory (−1332 to −710). Further 5′-deletion of the promoter to position −521 restored full transcriptional activity. From these results and to rule out the possibility that sequences between positions −1852 and −521 might have an effect on the qualitative expression of the SQS1 promoter, the SQS1::GUS construct including the 1,852 bp upstream the ATG codon was selected for introduction into A. thaliana plants. As for the SQS2 promoter expression analysis, results indicated that the 643-bp sequence upstream the ATG start codon is the minimal promoter length to establish maximal transcriptional activity in the protoplast system, as nested 5′-deletions of this fragment led to a progressive reduction of activity, which was completely abolished when the promoter was shortened to position −102 (Fig. 1c). Therefore, the SQS2::GUS construct including the 643-bp sequence upstream the ATG codon was selected to analyze the pattern of expression of SQS2 in transgenic A. thaliana plants. The selected SQS1 and SQS2 promoter-GUS chimeric genes were introduced into A. thaliana by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation and the expression of GUS activity was analyzed by histochemical staining. As shown in Fig. 2, the SQS1 promoter directs a widespread expression of GUS activity, which was detected from the very early stages of seedling development. GUS activity was strongly expressed in roots of both seedlings and adult plants, and was also evident in cotyledons and leaves, particularly in the vascular tissue and the petioles. Expression of GUS activity in leaves progressively decreased as they become older. An intense expression of SQS1::GUS was also observed in floral organs and siliques, being the highest levels of GUS activity detected in pollen grains. In contrast, transgenic plants harbouring SQS2::GUS exhibited a specialized pattern of GUS expression, which was primarily detected in the vascular tissue of leaf and cotyledon petioles, and the hypocotyl of one week-old seedlings. A faint GUS staining was also visible in stems, whereas no apparent expression of GUS activity was detected in germinating seeds, roots, floral organs, and siliques. The expression patterns deduced from the SQS promoter-GUS gene expression analyses are in agreement with the Genevestigator (Zimmerman et al. CITATION, CITATION) (www.genevestigator.ethz.ch) microarray expression data for SQS1 and SQS2. [[FIGURE]]  SQS proteins contain three conserved regions (domains A–C) that are involved in catalysis and specific amino acid residues within these domains are reported to be essential for the two half-reactions catalyzed by the enzyme (Gu et al. CITATION). These residues are also present in the corresponding domains of A. thaliana SQS1 and SQS2, with the only exception of Phe287 (domain C), which is found in SQS1 but is replaced by a Ser residue in SQS2 (Fig. 3). To assess the effect that this substitution might have on SQS2 activity, we first checked the potential of SQS2 to rescue the ergosterol auxotrophy of a S. cerevisiae erg9 mutant strain (2C1) that is deficient in SQS activity (Fig. 4). To this end, plasmids expressing the complete SQS2 (pRK20) and a chimeric A. thaliana SQS2/S. pombe SQS protein, in which the 69 C-terminal residues of A. thaliana SQS2 were replaced by the 111 C-terminal residues of the S. pombe SQS (pRK21) (Fig. 4a), were assayed for their ability to restore growth of strain 2C1 on media not supplemented with ergosterol. As a positive control of complementation of the erg9 mutation we used plasmid pRK19 expressing an equivalent A. thaliana SQS1/S. pombe SQS chimera (Fig. 4a), as it has been previously demonstrated that expression of the complete A. thaliana SQS1 is unable to complement the erg9 mutation (Kribii et al. CITATION). Interestingly, neither pRK20 nor pRK21 were able to confer ergosterol prototrophy to strain 2C1 (Fig. 4b), thereby indicating that A. thaliana SQS2 cannot substitute for the yeast endogenous SQS. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  To confirm that the protein encoded by the SQS2 gene is a non-functional SQS, we expressed in E. coli His-tagged versions of both A. thaliana SQS proteins in which the predicted hydrophobic trans-membrane sequence, 20 and 23 C-terminal residues (Fig. 3), was replaced by a sequence of 5 amino acids (AAALE) followed by a tag of 6 histidines. The resulting soluble extracts were assayed for SQS activity using [14C]-FPP, NADPH, and Mg2+ as a cofactor, and the reaction products were analyzed by normal-phase TLC. As shown in Fig. 5a, [14C]-SQ formation was detected only in extracts from cells expressing the recombinant SQS1, whereas no SQ formation was detected neither in extracts from cells expressing SQS2 nor in extracts from cells harbouring the empty expression vector. These results confirmed that the protein encoded by the SQS2 gene actually has no SQS activity. [[FIGURE]]  To assess the contribution of the Phe287 to Ser substitution to the loss of activity of SQS2, we also constructed and expressed in E. coli mutated versions of SQS1 and SQS2 in which Phe287 of SQS1 was replaced by a Ser residue (SQS1-F287S) and, conversely, Ser287 of SQS2 was replaced by Phe (SQS2-S287F). The resulting mutants together with the non-mutated SQS forms were purified from E. coli soluble extracts using Ni-agarose affinity chromatography. Highly purified protein preparations were obtained, as shown by SDS-PAGE (Fig. 5b) and Western blot analysis using anti-SQS antibodies (Fig. 5c). The purified recombinant enzymes were assayed for SQS activity in a mixture containing [14C]-FPP, NADPH, and either Mg2+ or Mn2+ as a cofactor, and the reaction products were analyzed by reverse-phase TLC (Fig. 6). As expected, SQS1 catalyzed the synthesis of [14C]-SQ from [14C]-FPP in the presence of NADPH and either Mg+2 or Mn+2. Interestingly, replacement of Phe287 in SQS1 with Ser (SQS1-F287S) caused a drastic, but not complete, loss of SQS activity. The calculated specific activity of the purified SQS1 preparation was 20.27 nmol/min/mg, whereas that of SQS1–F287S was 0.58 nmol/min/mg, which is less than 3% the activity of SQS1. In full agreement with the results shown in Fig. 5a, SQS2 was unable to produce SQ. Instead, the enzyme generated two major [14C]-labelled products, whether NADPH was present or not in the reaction, which co-migrated with the products synthesized by SQS1 when NADPH was omitted in the reaction mixture. These compounds might be dehydrosqualene (DSQ) and 12-hydroxysqualene (HSQ), the major triterpene products suggested to derive from PSPP, the product of the first-half reaction catalyzed by SQS (Jarsfter et al. CITATION). The same profile of reaction products was obtained when SQS2–S287F was assayed for SQS activity, which indicated that the mutant enzyme was unable to produce [14C]-SQ from [14C]-FPP in the presence of NADPH. This result led us to conclude that the loss of SQS activity cannot be exclusively attributed to the mutation of Phe287 to Ser, because re-introduction of Phe at this position did not restore SQS activity. Taken together, our results demonstrated that SQS1 is the only functional SQS in A. thaliana. [[FIGURE]]  The analysis of the hydropathy plot of A. thaliana SQS1 (Fig. 7a) showed that the enzyme contains a C-terminal highly hydrophobic sequence (amino acid residues 390 to 407), which has been suggested to anchor the enzyme into the ER membrane (Kribii et al. CITATION), and a second less hydrophobic sequence extending from residues 283 to 301. To investigate the intracellular location of SQS1, an N-terminal GFP-tagged version of SQS1 and an ER-targeted variant of DsRed.T3 (T3RE) (Forés et al. CITATION) were transiently co-expressed in onion epidermal cells. Confocal laser microscopy analysis of the transfected cells (Fig. 7b) revealed a reticular pattern of green fluorescence identical to that of red fluorescence emitted by the T3RE protein. Superimposed images of GFP- and T3RE-derived fluorescence confirmed that both proteins co-localize, thus demonstrating that SQS1 is targeted to the ER membrane. We next investigated the intracellular location of a fusion between GFP and the C-terminal 67 residues of SQS1, including the predicted trans-membrane domain (GFP-SQS1TM), and a fusion between GFP and a truncated SQS1 lacking the last 67 residues (GFP-SQS1CD) (Fig. 7b). Co-expression of GFP-SQS1TM with T3RE revealed that both proteins co-localized to the ER membrane. In contrast, cells expressing GFP-SQS1CD displayed uniformly distributed green fluorescence throughout the cytoplasm. This pattern of fluorescence was identical to that obtained with untargeted GFP, with the exception of the accumulation of fluorescence in the nucleoplasm, which was not observed in cells expressing GFP-SQS1CD. Overall, these results conclusively demonstrated that SQS1 is targeted to the ER membrane and, moreover, that this intracellular location is exclusively dependent on the presence of the predicted C-terminal trans-membrane domain. [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! To construct SQS1::GUS translational fusions, a series of 5′-deleted fragments of the SQS1 promoter (GenBank accession number AF004560) was generated by PCR using forward primers with 5′ ends located at positions, −1852 (5′-CACTGCAGCTACAAAGATAACCAAATTAAC-3′), -1332 (5′-CACTGCAGATCTTCGAGGCATAGACCTTG-3′), -710 (5′-CACTGCAGGGCAAACCACCGAGTGTTATCTTG-3′), -616 (5′-CACTGCAGTTTTGCCACCTCAGCGTCGCC-3′), -521 (5′-CACTGCAGGATACCTTTTCTTCCATTTTTTAAG-3′), −341 (5′-CACTGCAGACTCTCCATTTCCATTTGATG-3′), −229 (5′-CACTGCAGCCTTGTGAGTTGGCTCACTGG-3′) and −167 (5′-CACTGCAGGATGAATAAATTAACAAAG-3′) relative to the first base of the SQS1 ATG start codon, a common reverse primer (5′-CATGC CAT GGTTTCCAGAAAATTTTG-3′), and plasmid pgAB1 (Kribii et al. CITATION) as a template. The sequence complementary to the ATG start codon is shown in bold. PstI and NcoI restriction sites (underlined) were added at the 5′ ends of the forward and reverse primers, respectively. The amplified fragments were cloned into a modified plasmid pBI221 (Clontech), in which the ATG start codon of the GUS-coding sequence was included in an NcoI site. To construct SQS2::GUS translational fusions, 5′-deleted fragments of the SQS2 promoter (GenBank accession number AF004396) were generated by PCR using forward primers with 5′ ends located at positions, −1037 (5′-CACTGCAGCACAAACACCTATAACTAATCTTCC-3′), −643 (5′-CACTGCAGCACTGAATCCTAAGCAAG-3′), −464 (5′-CACTGCAGGTTCTTTCTTTGTTTAGTTGCG-3′), −270 (5′-CACTGCAGGTGTAGCACGCGGCAAG-3′), −145 (5′-CACTGCAGGGCCGTGGGGTCTATTG-3′), and −102 (5′-CACTGCAGAATTATAGCACATGGCC-3′) relative to the first base of the SQS2 ATG start codon, a common reverse primer (5′-CTCAAGGATCC CATTTTTAGAAACAGAGG-3′), and plasmid pgAB2 (Kribii et al. CITATION) as a template. The sequence complementary to the ATG start codon is shown in bold. PstI and BamHI restriction sites (underlined) were added at the 5′ ends of the forward and reverse primers, respectively. The amplified fragments were cloned into plasmid pBI221 (Clontech). All fusions between SQS promoter fragments and the GUS-coding sequence were confirmed by sequencing. Protoplasts obtained from A. thaliana suspension-cultured T87 cells (Axelos et al. CITATION) were co-transfected with either SQS1::GUS or SQS2::GUS gene fusions and plasmid pDHLuc containing the firefly luciferase (LUC) gene under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. GUS and LUC activities were measured in protein extracts (Cunillera et al. CITATION). Transient expression of a given SQS::GUS gene fusion was expressed as the ratio of GUS activity normalized to LUC activity. To generate transgenic plants harbouring the selected SQS1 promoter::GUS gene fusion, a 3995 bp PstI-EcoRI fragment, including 1852 bp upstream the SQS1 ATG start codon, the GUS coding sequence, and the NOS-term, was excised from the corresponding construct in plasmid pBI221, and cloned into plasmid pBI121. To obtain transgenic plants containing the selected SQS2 promoter::GUS gene fusion, a 643 bp fragment of the A. thaliana SQS2 promoter was amplified by PCR using the aforementioned forward primer with 5′ end located at position −643 from the ATG start codon of SQS2, reverse primer 5′-ACATGC CAT GGTTAGAAACAGAGGAGAAAAAAC-3′, and plasmid pgAB2 (Kribii et al. CITATION) as a template. The sequence complementary to the ATG start codon is shown in bold. SalI and NcoI restriction sites (underlined) were added at the 5′ ends of the forward and reverse primers, respectively. The amplified fragment was cloned into the corresponding sites of a modified plasmid pBIB (Becker CITATION), in which the GUS coding sequence was cloned into the SalI and SmaI sites. The GUS sequence was amplified by PCR using forward primer 5′-ACGCGTCGACCC ATG GTACGTCCTGTAGAAACCCCA-3′ and reverse primer 5′-TCCCCCGGG TCATTGTTTGCCTCCCTGC-3′. The ATG start codon and the sequence complementary to the stop codon are shown in bold. SalI, NcoI and SmaI sites were added at the 5′ ends of forward and reverse primers, respectively. A. thaliana plants (var. Columbia 3) were transformed using the in planta infiltration method (Bechtold et al. CITATION) and Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58C1 (pGV2260) harbouring the selected SQS promoter::GUS gene fusions. Transgenic plants were selected (Manzano et al. CITATION) and histochemical analysis of GUS activity was performed as previously described (Cunillera et al. CITATION). The SQS2 cDNA was excised from plasmid pBSSQS2 as a NotI fragment and cloned into the yeast expression plasmid pNEV-N (Kribii et al. CITATION) linearized with NotI, yielding plasmid pRK20. Plasmid pRK21 encodes a chimeric A. thaliana SQS2/S. pombe SQS protein in which the C-terminal region of A. thaliana SQS2 (residues 345 to 413) was replaced by the equivalent region of S. pombe SQS (residues 350–460). A cDNA fragment encoding the 344 N-terminal residues of A. thaliana SQS2 was excised from plasmid pBSSQS2 as a NotI-SphI fragment and a cDNA fragment encoding residues 350–460 of S. pombe was excised from plasmid pRK19 as a SphI-NotI fragment. The cDNA fragments were then cloned into plasmid pNEV-N linearized with NotI in a three-piece ligation. The Saccharomyces cerevisiae ERG9 null mutant strain 2C1 (Matα erg9::HIS3, aux32, ura3, trp1, leu2) was transformed with plasmids pRK19, pRK20 and pRK21 by the lithium acetate procedure (Gietz et al. CITATION). Ura+ transformants were selected on minimal medium without uracil supplemented with casein hydrolysate (7.5 g/l) and after 6 days of growth, subcultured on YPG medium without ergosterol to test for ergosterol prototrophy (Kribii et al. CITATION). The sequences coding for the first 389 and 390 residues of SQS1 and SQS2 were amplified by PCR using forward primers SQS1-For (5′-CCATGGGGAGCTTGGGGACGATG-3′) and SQS2-For (5′-CCATGGGAAGCTTGAGTACG-3′), reverse primers SQS1-Rev (5′-GCGGCCGCACTGTTTGGTTGTCCTTTGTCA-3′) and SQS2-Rev (5′-GCGGCCGCAGCCTTGGATTGTGTTTCATCG-3′), and plasmids pRK18 (Kribii et al. CITATION) and pBSSQS2, respectively, as templates. NcoI and NotI sites (underlined) were added at the 5′ ends of forward and reverse primers, respectively. The PCR products were cloned into plasmid pGEMT-Easy (Promega, Madison, WI, USA), excised as NcoI/NotI fragments, and cloned into the corresponding sites of the pET23d expression vector (Novagen, Madison, WI, USA). The amino acid substitutions to create SQS1-F287S and SQS2-S287F were introduced by a PCR-based overlap extension method (Ortiz et al. CITATION). To generate substitution Phe287Ser, independent PCR reactions were carried out using either primer pair SQS1-For and SQS1-Ser-Rev (5′-GGGATGGCACAGGACCGAAATATGG-3′) or primer pair SQS1-Ser-For (5′-CCATATTTCGGTCCTGTGCCATCCC -3′) and SQS1-Rev, and plasmid pRK18 as a template. To generate substitution Ser287Phe, independent PCR reactions were carried out using either primer pair SQS2-For and SQS2-Phe-Rev (5′-CGTTATAAAGTCAAAACGCGGTAGGG-3′) or primer pair SQS2-Phe-F (5′-GCAATATTTCAGTTTTGCGCCATCCC-3′) and SQS2-Rev, and plasmid pBSSQS2 as a template. Nucleotide changes to introduce the desired amino acid substitutions are shown in bold. About 200 ng of each pair of PCR products were mixed and used as template in the subsequent PCR-based overlap extension reactions, which were carried out using primer pairs SQS1-For and SQS1-Rev, and SQS2-For and SQS2-Rev. The resulting fragments were cloned into pGEMT-Easy and subsequently cloned into the NcoI and NotI sites of pET23d. E. coli BL21(DE3) cells harbouring plasmid pUBS520 (Brinkmann et al. CITATION) and the corresponding recombinant SQS expression plasmids were grown in LB medium supplemented with ampicillin (100 μg/ml) and kanamycin (50 μg/ml) at 37°C to an OD600 of 0.6. Expression of the recombinant proteins was induced by addition of isopropyl 1-thio-β-D-galactopyranoside (0.4 mM) to the culture, which was further incubated at 22°C for 6 h. Cells were then collected by centrifugation at 7,000 × g for 10 min at 4°C, resuspended in 4 ml of buffer A (100 mM sucrose, 50 mM potassium phosphate, pH 7.4, 5 mM dithiothreitol, 0.5 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, 3 μg/ml E64, 15 μg/ml aprotinin, and 1 μg/ml pepstatin), and disrupted by sonication (0.5 min/ml suspension) in an ultrasonic disintegrator (MSE, 60 W) while being chilled in a −10°C bath. Cell debris was removed by centrifugation at 15,000 × g for 30 min at 4°C and the supernatant was used as a starting material for protein purification. All purification procedures were performed at 4°C. Cell-free extracts were mixed with 2 ml of Ni-agarose resin equilibrated in buffer A supplemented with 10 mM imidazole and stirred gently for 2 h. The slurry was applied into a column (4 × 2 cm) that was extensively washed with the same buffer and eluted with 0.5 ml fractions of buffer A containing 100, 200, 300, 400 and 500 mM imidazole. Protein levels were measured by the Bradford method. Aliquots of the eluted fractions were subjected to 12.5% SDS-PAGE and stained with Coomassie blue for protein detection. The reaction mixture contained in a total volume of 100 μl, 25 μM [1,2-14C]-FPP (32 nCi; American Radiolabeled Chemicals, St. Louis, MO), 2.5 mM NADP+, 50 mM Glucose-6-P, 2U Glucose-6-P DH, 5 mM MgCl2 (or 2 mM MnCl2), 10 mM dithiothreitol, 50 mM phosphate K (pH 7.4), 1 mg/ml albumin and 15 μg of freshly purified SQS preparations (fraction eluted with 400 mM imidazole). After incubation for the desired time, the reaction was stopped by adding 10 μl of a solution containing 0.4% v/v SQ, 1 M EDTA (pH 9.2), and 1% v/v ethanol, and the mixture was quickly placed in an ice bath. For normal-phase TLC analysis of the reaction products, 40 μl of the reaction mixture was applied onto silica gel G plates (Merck), which were developed with cyclohexane:ethyl acetate (9:1). For reverse-phase TLC analysis, 20 μl aliquots were applied onto silica gel RP-18 plates (Merck), which were developed with acetone:water (19:1, v/v). After development, plates were exposed and analyzed with a bio-image analyzer (Byo STORM, Molecular Dynamics, Amersham). Farnesol and SQ were visualized by staining with iodine vapours. For quantification of activity, the chromatography zone containing SQ was scrapped into scintillation vials containing 10 ml of Cytoscint (ICN) and the radioactivity was determined in a liquid scintillation counter (Hewlet Packard). One unit of SQS activity is defined as the amount of enzyme that converts 1 nanomol of FPP into SQ per milligram of protein per minute at 37°C. A truncated A. thaliana SQS1 (residues 10 to 342) was expressed in E. coli, purified, and injected into New Zealand white rabbits as described (Pujol et al. CITATION). Blood was collected 14 days after the last injection and serum was recovered by centrifugation at 5,000 × g for 10 min. The antibodies were concentrated by precipitation with a 50% of saturation of ammonium sulphate and dialyzed against phosphate-buffered saline (pH 7.5). For Western blot analysis, protein samples were fractionated by 12.5% SDS-PAGE and transferred to a Hybond-P polyvinylidenedifluoride membrane (Amersham, Buckinghamshire, UK) using a mini trans-blot cell (Bio-Rad). The membrane was incubated with anti-SQS antibodies (1:10,000 dilution in blocking buffer) for 16 h at 4°C, and then with horseradish peroxidase-conjugated anti-rabbit IgG (1:40,000 dilution; Amersham). The ECL Advance™ Western Blotting Detection System (Amersham) was used to visualize the decorated bands. The sequences coding for SQS1, SQS1CD, and SQS1TMD were amplified by PCR using primer pairs 5′-GGTACCCGATGGGGAGCTTGGGGACG-3′ and 5′-GGATCC TCAGTTTGCTCTGAGATATGC-3′, 5′-GGTACCCGATGGGGAGCTTGGGGACG-3′ and 5′- GGATCCCCAGCATGCAGGAAAAATC-3′, and 5′-GAGCT CGGAAGACAAAGGTTGACAAGAAC-3′), and 5′-GGATCC TCAGTTTGCTCTGAGATATGC-3′, respectively, and plasmid pRK18 as a template. Translational start and stop codons are shown in bold. KpnI or SacI and BamHI restriction sites (underlined) were added at the 5′ end of the forward and reverse primers, respectively. The amplified fragments were cloned in-frame with the green fluorescent protein (GFP) coding sequence into the corresponding sites of plasmid pRTL2-sGFP, yielding plasmids pGFP-SQS1, pGFP-SQS1CD, and pGFP-SQS1MD that carried the chimeric genes under the transcriptional control of the CaMV 35S gene promoter. All constructs were sequenced to confirm the in-frame fusions. To create pRTL2-sGFP, the GFP coding sequence was amplified by PCR and cloned into the NcoI and SacI restriction sites of plasmid pRTL2 (Carrington et al. CITATION). Plasmids coding for the different GFP-SQS1 fusions were co-introduced together with plasmid pT3RE, which codes for an ER-targeted variant of the Discosoma red fluorescent protein (DsRed.T3), into onion epidermal cells by micro-bombardment. Onion pieces were kept in darkness at 22°C for 16 h and epidermal cells were examined by laser confocal-scanning fluorescence microscopy as described (Forés et al. CITATION).
