!~ABS~! Plant SET domain proteins are known to be involved in the epigenetic control of gene expression during plant development. Here, we report that the Arabidopsis SET domain protein, SDG4, contributes to the epigenetic regulation of pollen tube growth, thus affecting fertilization. Using an SDG4–GFP fusion construct, the chromosomal localization of SDG4 was established in tobacco BY-2 cells. In Arabidopsis , sdg4 knockout showed reproductive defects. Tissue-specific expression analyses indicated that SDG4 is the major ASH1-related gene expressed in the pollen. Immunological analyses demonstrated that SDG4 was involved in the methylation of histone H3 in the inflorescence and pollen grains. The significant reduction in the amount of methylated histone H3 K4 and K36 in sdg4 pollen vegetative nuclei resulted in suppression of pollen tube growth. Our results indicate that SDG4 is capable of modulating the expression of genes that function in the growth of pollen tube by methylation of specific lysine residues of the histone H3 in the vegetative nuclei.
!~RES~! The amino acid sequence and domain organization of SDG4 is presented in [fig1] A . Protein domain predictions using the Pfam database ( http://www.sanger.ac.uk/Software/Pfam/index.shtml ) indicated that amino acids 120–186 encode a PHD-finger, whereas a SET domain corresponds to amino acids 320–449. The presence of an NLS (amino acids 94–111) may suggest that SDG4 is targeted to the nucleus. The SET domain is associated with chromosomal proteins that regulate gene expression ( [bib24] ). PHD-finger domains, on the other hand, have been proposed to be involved in complex formation or recognition of nuclear targets related to chromatin structure and regulation ( [bib1] ). The protein domain organization displayed by SDG4 is characteristic of motifs commonly found in transcription factors. SDG4 is classified under the ASH1 class of Arabidopsis SET domain proteins ( [bib5] ). To show its homology to ASH1, amino acid sequence alignment of the SDG4 SET domain was performed against the SET domains of ASH1 from other organisms such as human ( [bib33] ), Drosophila ( [bib51] ) and mouse (GenBank accession NP_619620 ) ( [fig1] B). The SET domain from human trithorax, TRX5 (GenBank accession CAB45386 ), was included in the alignment in order to demonstrate the presence of conserved motifs among SET domain-containing proteins. In addition to this, the ASH1 protein has the highest similarity to TRX among other SET domain proteins ( [bib33 bib5] ). The GWG motif and cysteine-rich regions were shown to be conserved among the ASH1 and TRX proteins after amino acid sequence alignment by ClustalW ( [fig1] B). Accordingly, previously characterized plant PHD-finger proteins were also aligned with the PHD-finger of SDG4 ( [fig1] C). Among them are Arabidopsis HAT3.1 ( [bib44] ), ZmHOX2a from Zea mays ( [bib26] ) and MS1 (male sterility 1) from Arabidopsis ( [bib54] ). The conserved C4HC3 motif for PHD-finger is highlighted in [fig1] C. The results of the amino acid sequence alignment suggest that SDG4 possesses the conserved residues also found in other functional proteins and can serve as basis for predicting the SDG4 function. Using time-lapse video microscopy, the dynamic association of SDG4 expression with tobacco BY-2 chromosomes was established ( [app1] ). Actively dividing tobacco BY-2 cells overexpressing SDG4 with a C-terminal GFP (GFP–SDG4) were monitored, and the GFP signal was shown to be mainly localized in the chromatin during interphase and throughout mitosis. [fig2] illustrates the localization pattern of SDG4 at different stages of cell division. At interphase, a strong GFP fluorescence was detected in the entire nucleus, except the nucleolar area ( [fig2] A). As the chromatin started to condense, the GFP signal was shown to be associated with the condensing chromatin starting prometaphase ( [fig2] B). Strong GFP signals on highly compacted chromosomes were observed during metaphase ( [fig2] C). As the cells reach anaphase, the separation of GFP signals on each of the chromosome sets was evident ( [fig2] D); and immediately after that, dynamics of the GFP signal is consistent with the complete separation and movement of the chromatids to opposite sides of the cells at telophase ( [fig2] E). GFP–SDG4 expression of the chromatin was evident until the cells reach cytokinesis ( [fig2] F). Tobacco BY-2 cells overexpressing SDG4 with an N-terminal GFP (SDG4–GFP) showed exactly the same localization pattern as that of GFP–SDG4 (data not shown). The correlation of SDG4 expression to chromosomes during cell division and the presence of both the SET and PHD-finger domains in SDG4 provide considerable information for the possible involvement of SDG4 in chromatin remodeling. The results of RT-PCR analysis using SDG4 and ACTIN primers are presented in [fig3] A . SDG4 was shown to be expressed at high levels in mature flowers and flower buds at relatively equal amounts, indicating that SDG4 is likely to be expressed throughout the different stages of Arabidopsis flower development. Detectable expression was also observed in 3-day-old seedlings. Furthermore, increasing the number of PCR cycles to 40 detected SDG4 transcripts from the other organs analyzed, such as roots, stems and leaves (data not shown). To facilitate the observation of tissue-specific expression of SDG4 in Arabidopsis , in situ hybridization to floral tissues was carried out using an SDG4 antisense probe. SDG4 expression was monitored at different stages of flower development. SDG4 transcripts were below detection levels in early floral primordia (data not shown). Expression of SDG4 in the stamen primordia was first detected among stage 6 flowers ( [fig3] B). Accumulation of SDG4 transcripts was observed within anther locules of flowers at stage 10 ( [fig3] C), and along anther walls and pollen grains in a stage 12 flower bud ( [fig3] D and E). The level of SDG4 expression was found to be almost the same in the lateral and medial stamens ( [fig3] E). Slightly detectable levels of SDG4 transcripts were also observed in the stamen filaments ( [fig3] D and E), indicating that SDG4 is expressed in the entire stamen structure. Arabidopsis microarray data on the tissue-specific expression of SDG4 was obtained from GENEVESTIGATOR ( https://www.genevestigator.ethz.ch/at/index.php ) and indicated that SDG4 is highly expressed in the pollen ( [bib59] ). Furthermore, the expressions of two other Arabidopsis ASH1-related genes and three ASH1 homologs were also obtained from GENEVESTIGATOR. Comparing the signal intensities for expression of these six genes in pollen, it was shown that the high expression in pollen is exclusive for SDG4 ( [app1] ). The average signal intensity value for SDG4 was found to be 34,195 whereas less than 1,000 for the other five genes. This excludes the possibility of redundancy in SDG4 function as a major ASH1 protein that acts as a histone methyltransferase in Arabidopsis pollen. In order to identify the possible function of SDG4 in Arabidopsis development, a homozygous mutant line harboring a T-DNA insertion was characterized ( [fig4] A ). The predicted site of T-DNA insertion for SALK 128444 on the first exon of the SDG4 gene was confirmed by PCR and sequence analysis (data not shown). The T-DNA insertion greatly reduced the level of SDG4 transcripts as analyzed by RT-PCR ( [fig4] B). However, longer unexpected transcripts could be detected in open flowers of sdg4 mutants by Northern hybridization using a DNA probe ( [app1] ). Although the transcript level increases three to five times, these transcripts might have been transcribed together with the T-DNA insertion by the SDG4 promoter and spliced from the long premature RNA. These transcripts cannot produce the functional SDG4 protein since they lack an inframe initiation codon. Upon inspection of the vegetative organs in these sdg4 homozygous plants, no apparent morphological abnormalities were observed, except that the rate of bud production was lower than the wild type ( [fig4] C). The presence of a T-DNA insertion in the first exon of the SDG4 gene is expected to disrupt the expression of the functional domains in the SDG4 protein, such as the PHD and SET domains ( [fig4] A). Previous reports on the roles played by SET-containing ( [bib15 bib16 bib3] ) and/or PHD-containing ( [bib54 bib40 bib56] ) proteins include the regulation of flower development. Recently identified PHD-containing Arabidopsis proteins, such as MS1 ( [bib54 bib21] ) and MMD1/DUET ( [bib40 bib56] ), were shown to function in anther and pollen development. Thus, male meiosis and pollen development were analyzed in sdg4 flowers. However, pollen from flowers of the homozygous plants did not show any significant morphological difference when compared to the wild-type pollen. Mature pollen from both wild-type and sdg4 mutants contain two sperm nuclei and one vegetative nucleus as visualized by DAPI staining ( [fig8] A–F). Likewise, meiotic chromosomes from the sdg4 homozygous line appeared morphologically the same as that of the wild type ( [app1] ). Though pollen development was normal in sdg4 mutants, the fact that significant amount of SDG4 transcripts were found in the pollen indicates that SDG4 function is concerned with processes taking place in the pollen. After germination, the pollen grows a tube that is used to deliver the sperm cells in order to reach the female gametophyte for fertilization. Thus, we tried to investigate the role of SDG4 in the reproductive development in Arabidopsis. A general observation on the silique length among sdg4 mutants gave us an impression that mutant siliques appeared slightly shorter than that of the wild type. Silique length measurements were done on the first five siliques found in each stem, and our analysis indicated that sdg4 siliques are about 2 mm shorter in average than that of wild type ( [fig5] A ). Furthermore, fresh siliques were dissected for analysis of ovule development. The sdg4 siliques were found to contain unfertilized ovules and aborted seeds ( [fig5] A–B). The number of unfertilized ovules and aborted seeds was counted in both wild-type and sdg4 siliques and was found to vary widely among sdg4 siliques even within the same plant ( [app1] ). However, wild-type siliques contained very few unfertilized ovules and almost no aborted seeds ( [fig5] A). Clearing of intact siliques showed clearly that the number of healthy seeds contained in sdg4 siliques is lower than in the wild type ( [fig5] C). The increased number of unfertilized ovules in sdg4 compared to wild type indicates that fertility is affected by sdg4 knockout. Furthermore, the increased variations in the number of unfertilized ovules indicate that this phenotype is most likely due to epigenetic changes in gene expression. Several genes expressed in the pollen play vital roles in assuring that fertilization can take place successfully. Three independent studies on the global gene expression in the Arabidopsis pollen have shown that the pollen contain genes that mainly function in signaling, cell wall metabolism and cytoskeletal dynamics ( [bib18 bib6 bib28] ). These gene families are expected to be involved in pollen germination, pollen tube growth and guidance. Alteration in the expression level of these genes can drastically influence the success or failure of fertilization. SDG4, being a SET domain transcription factor has a potential for regulating gene expression through chromatin remodeling, specifically by methylation of specific lysine residues. The SET domain of SDG4 is most similar in homology to Drosophila ASH1 ( [bib47 bib5] ). The specific enzymatic activity established for Drosophila ASH1 includes methylation of H3K4, H3K9 and H4K20 ( [bib7 bib8] ), and recently H3K36 ( [bib48] ). Histone methyltransferase assays were performed for recombinant SDG4 proteins, but in vitro activities were not detected (data not shown). This indicates that like some SET domain methyltransferase proteins, SDG4 requires association with other proteins in a complex in order to carry out its enzymatic activities ( [bib23] ). Thus, the level of methylated histones in the wild-type and sdg4 mutant flowers were analyzed by immunoblotting with specific anti-methyl antibodies. In the sdg4 mutant line, a significant reduction in the level of dimethylated H3K4, trimethylated H3K4 and trimethylated H3K36 was evident ( [fig6] ; [app1] ). On the other hand, the dimethylated H3K36 level was only slightly reduced in the sdg4 mutant ( [fig6] ; [app1] ). This ability of SDG4 to methylate the lysine 4 residue of histone H3 is in agreement with the reported enzymatic activity of ASH1 proteins in both human and Drosophila ( [bib7 bib8] ). ASH1 proteins are chromatin remodelers specifically acting on H3K9 and H3K4. In Drosophila , transcriptional activation by ASH1 corresponds to methylation of lysines 9 and 4 in H3 and lysine 20 in H4 at the promoter of ASH1 target genes ( [bib7] ). Furthermore, it was demonstrated that ASH1 is responsible for all in vivo histone H3K4 methylation in Drosophila ; and that the SET domain alone is sufficient for its histone methyltransferase activity ( [bib8] ). A recent report by [bib48] provides evidence that histone H3 K36 is specifically methylated by mammalian and Drosophila ASH1. This histone H3 K36-specific methyltransferase activity was demonstrated in Arabidopsis by the ASH1 homolog, SDG8 ( [bib58] ). SDG8 was shown to have a specific activity to methylate K36 of histone H3 in order to activate the expression of FLOWERING LOCUS C ( FLC ) . Considering these characteristic methylation activities of different ASH1 proteins so far characterized, we can rationalize that SDG4 transcriptional activation involves methylation of histone H3 K4 and K36. The significantly high expression level of SDG4 in pollen prompted us to analyze histone methylation levels in pollen grains by immunofluorescence staining using antibodies against specific methylation marks. The antibodies used for pollen immunostaining detected the tissue-specific histone protein localized exclusively in the vegetative nucleus. All methylation marks were clearly immunolocalized in the vegetative nucleus of wild-type pollen ( [fig7] ). In sdg4 pollen, the dimethyl H3K4 and trimethyl H3K36 signals in the vegetative nucleus were greatly reduced whereas the other methylation marks were not affected. This methylation pattern is consistent with the immunoblotting results pointing to a transcriptional activation mode of histone modification by SDG4. Histone proteins are generally categorized into three: replication dependent, replication independent and tissue specific ( [bib45] ). In lily, tissue-specific histone variants such as gH2A, gH2B and gH3 were reported to be specifically localized in the generative cells of pollen grains ( [bib52 bib55 bib37] ). Moreover, the male gamete-specific histone gcH3 in lily has been shown to possess a promoter that is activated independent of vegetative cell transcriptional and translational machineries ( [bib35] ). More recently, a histone variant H3.3 was shown to be particularly expressed in the vegetative nucleus of lily pollen ( [bib42 bib43] ). It was also demonstrated that this histone H3.3 variant was preferentially incorporated into chromatin, where it is expected to control chromatin condensation and upregulate genes that are necessary for pollen germination and tube growth ( [bib42 bib43] ). Meanwhile, 15 histone H3 genes have been identified in Arabidopsis by a bioinformatic approach, including one that is a male-gamete-specific variant ( [bib36] ). [bib20] has studied the dynamics of this male-gamete-specific H3.3 through live imaging of the fertilization process in Arabidopsis thaliana . The histone H3 protein we detected here is specifically localized in the vegetative nucleus and is distinct from the male-gamete-specific H3.3 previously described by [bib20] . The nucleus of the vegetative cell is said to be more transcriptionally active than that of the generative cell since numerous pollen-specific genes that function in pollen germination and tube growth are expressed in the vegetative cell ( [bib18] ). In contrast, genes that function in protein destination and signal transduction were found to be abundant in the generative cell of lily pollen ( [bib38 bib39] ). Since we detected histone methylation in the vegetative nuclei, we then tried to analyze pollen germination as well as pollen tube growth in sdg4 mutants. The rate of pollen germination did not differ between wild type and sdg4 (data not shown). However, the growth of pollen tube was affected in sdg4, in which most of the sdg4 pollen tubes did not reach the normal length as in wild type even after 24 h of incubation ( [fig8] K ). Wild-type pollen tubes have an average length of about 150.0 μm, whereas homozygous sdg4 pollen tubes reached about 78.8 μm in length. The distribution plot in [fig8] K shows that the measured pollen tube lengths for heterozygous mutants cover the range of tube length values for both wild-type and homozygous sdg4 pollen, with the longer pollen tubes lengths comparable to that of wild-type (average length of 149.1 μm) and shorter pollen tubes similar to that of sdg4 homozygous mutants (average length of 54.6 μm). DAPI staining allowed us to visualize the vegetative and sperm nuclei during pollen development and to track the nuclei along the pollen tube after germination ( [fig8] A–J). In sdg4 mutants, the sperm and vegetative nuclei remained in the pollen grain ( [fig8] J), whereas all these nuclei were located near the tip of wild-type pollen tube as if ready to be delivered out into the ovules ( [fig8] H). The defect in pollen tube growth among sdg4 mutants resulted to failure of the sperm cells to reach the ovules for fertilization; thus, numerous ovules remained unfertilized. Based on these findings, we conclude that SDG4 is capable of regulating the pollen tube growth in Arabidopsis by altering the expression of pollen-specific genes via histone methylation. To validate such conclusions, we performed microarray experiments to analyze gene expression in sdg4 mutant flowers. The microarray data we obtained were assigned the GEO accession number GSE9543. [tbl1] presents the genes downregulated by SDG4 mutation. In the list, several genes involved in cell wall metabolism, stress response and transport, as indicated by database annotations, were found to have decreased expression in sdg4 mutants. Genes involved in cell wall synthesis are also implicated in pollen tube growth, such as pectinesterases and glucosyl transferases. For the upregulated genes, those involved in transcription, stress response and signal transduction showed increased expression in sdg4 mutant flowers ( [tbl2] ). We also found SDG4 as an upregulated gene with about three times increased transcription as compared to that in the wild type. This is consistent with our observation that the longer transcripts of SDG4 were detected by Northern hybridization. In both cases, genes with increased or decreased expression levels were detected which are assumed to be associated with pollen development, especially affecting pollen tube growth. Thus, from these findings, it can be deduced that the downregulation of genes involved in pollen tube growth was due to the absence of SDG4. Histone modification is a major factor that controls the chromatin state in many organisms, which subsequently affects gene expression and development. The current paper presents novel findings that Arabidopsis ASH1-related protein, SDG4, is involved in histone modifications of H3K4me2, H3K4me3 and H3K36me3, which are associated with the transcriptionally active chromatin state. A significant reduction in the level of methylated histone H3 K4 and K36 may have contributed to the observed defects in pollen tube growth, which subsequently affected fertility in sdg4 mutants . The expression of genes that function in the growth of pollen tubes, most likely those involved in cell wall metabolism and signal transduction, were suppressed mainly by the significant reduction or loss of histone H3 K4 and K36 levels in the sdg4 pollen. As a result, the sperm nuclei failed to reach the embryo sac, thus producing unfertilized ovules. The histone modification alteration shown in sdg4 mutants is consistent with those for Drosophila and mammalian ASH1 proteins, thereby providing a link between animal and plant systems in terms of epigenetic development. This work paves the way for further investigations on the mechanism by which HMTase regulates expression of genes that are key players in plant reproduction.
!~MM~! A full-length cDNA for SDG4 (RAFL07-08-N08), obtained from RIKEN BioResource Center ( [bib46] ), was cloned using the Gateway cloning technology (Invitrogen). SDG4–GFP expression clones were constructed using pGWB5 (for C-terminal fusion) or pGWB6 (for N-terminal fusion) binary vectors containing a GFP expression cassette under the control of a 35S promoter and NOS terminator. Tobacco Bright Yellow-2 (BY-2) cells were cultured in modified Linsmaier and Skoog (LS) medium in a rotary shaker at 25 °C in the dark. The SDG4 expression clone was electroporated into Agrobacterium tumefaciens EHA101 and was introduced into tobacco BY-2 cells via the Agrobacterium -mediated transformation. An overnight Agrobacterium suspension culture was mixed with 3-day-old tobacco BY-2 cells and incubated for 3 days at 25 °C. Stable transformants were selected using solid LS medium containing 500 mg/ml carbenicillin and 7.5 mg/ml hygromycin. Stably transformed tobacco BY-2 cells were used for time-lapse observation of SDG4 localization and dynamics. Actively growing cells of about 2 to 3 days old were suspended in fresh LS medium placed in a coverglass-bottom dish (Matsunami). Observation was performed at a 3-min time interval using an inverted fluorescence microscope (Olympus IX-71), with image acquisition controlled by the software Metamorph ver.6.2 (Universal Imaging Corp.). All Arabidopsis plants used were derived from the Columbia ecotype (Col-0). A T-DNA insertion line (SALK 128444) was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center ( [bib2] ). Seeds were germinated in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium (MS salts, 1% sucrose, 0.8% agar, 0.05% MES-KOH pH 5.7 and B5 vitamins: 1 mg nicotinic acid, 1 mg pyridoxine-HCl, 10 mg thiamine–HCl and 100 mg myo -inositol). Total genomic DNA from each plant was isolated from young leaves and was used as template for PCR analysis. The presence of the insertion in the SDG4 gene was confirmed using SDG4 gene-specific primers flanking the predicted insertion ( [fig4] A), in combination with a T-DNA left border (LBa1) primer. Total RNA was extracted from different Arabidopsis organs such as roots, leaves, stems, mature flowers and floral buds using the RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen). mRNA was isolated using the PolyATtract mRNA Isolation Systems (Promega) and was utilized as template for cDNA amplification using the First-Strand cDNA Synthesis Kit (Amersham Biosciences). SDG4 expression was detected with primer set F 5′-TGTCTTGTTTGCCATAAGCCG-3′ and R 5′-TGTGTCTAGCC GCCAATCAGT-3′, which generates a 303-bp cDNA fragment. The ACTIN gene was amplified using the primers 5′-AGAGATTCAGATGCCCAGAAGTC TTGTTCC-3′ and 5′-AACGATTCCTGGACCTGCCTCATCATACTC-3′. PCR was performed using Takara Ex Taq polymerase for 30 cycles of 94 °C for 1 min, 53 °C for 1 min and 72 °C for 2 min. The template for in vitro transcription of an SDG4 antisense probe was derived from a 312-bp fragment corresponding to the last exon and 3′UTR of the SDG4 gene. This fragment was inserted into a TOPO-TA cloning vector pCR2.1-TOPO (Invitrogen) containing a T7 promoter sequence. A digoxigenin-labeled antisense probe for SDG4 was synthesized with Ampliscribe T7 Flash Transcription Kit according to manufacturer's instruction (Epicentre). The RNA probe was hydrolyzed by alkali treatment to produce fragments less than 400 bp. In situ hybridization with Arabidopsis floral tissues was performed using a modified protocol adapted from the Meyerowitz laboratory (described by [bib53] ). Arabidopsis inflorescences including various stages of flower buds were fixed in FAA (3.7% formaldehyde, 5% acetic acid, 50% ethanol) for 15 min in vacuum. After release from vacuum, the tissues were further incubated in the fixative for 1 h at room temperature. Fixed floral tissues were embedded in Paraplast Plus (Sigma), and 8-mm sections were placed onto APTES-coated slides (Matsunami). Hybridization of dig- SDG4 RNA probe was done at 45 °C for about 16 to 18 h. Post-hybridization washings and signal detection were carried out according to the method of [bib49] . The hybridization sites were visualized using alkaline phosphatase conjugated anti-digoxigenin (Roche) and color development was monitored with nitro blue tetrazolium chloride and 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl phosphate (Roche). Slides were dried, mounted with glycerol and observed under a light microscope (Olympus BX50). Images were captured with a CCD camera (Olympus DP70) and processed using Adobe Photoshop (ver.7.0). Histone-enriched protein extracts were prepared from floral tissues of Columbia and sdg4 plants following the procedures by [bib50] . The methylated histones were detected using the following antibodies purchased from Upstate Biotechnology: anti-dimethyl-H3K4, anti-trimethyl H3K4 anti-dimethyl-H3K9, anti-dimethyl H3K36 and anti-trimethyl H3K36 from Abcam. The relative histone H3 levels were normalized using an anti-histone H3 antibody (Upstate Biotechnology). Pollen grains were collected by vortexing open flowers in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS). After centrifugation, the supernatant containing floral tissues was discarded, and the pollen was fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde in PBS and treated with 0.5% Triton X-100 in PBS before incubation with the primary antibody (same antibodies as in western blot analysis). Secondary antibodies used were Alexa Fluor 488 goat anti-rabbit and Alexa Fluor 488 goat anti-mouse (Invitrogen). The pollen suspension was transferred to a microscope slide, counterstained with DAPI (1 μg/ml) in antifade and observed under a fluorescence microscope (Zeiss Axiophot). Images were captured using a CCD camera and enhanced to reduce background signals using Adobe Photoshop (ver.7.0). A modified procedure by [bib19] was followed for clearing intact siliques. Clearing was performed using lactoglycerol (2 water–2 glycerol–1 lactic acid) and staining with 0.1% aniline blue in lactoglycerol at 70 °C. After destaining in lactoglycerol at room temperature, the siliques were directly observed under a dissecting microscope (Leica MZFLIII). Pollen germination assay was performed using the basic medium described by [bib11] . Pollen grains were transferred on the surface of the basic medium, and the Petri dishes were incubated in humid chambers at 22 °C overnight. The number of germinated pollens was counted and the pollen tube length was measured under a dissecting microscope. Open flowers from wild-type and sdg4 mutants were harvested and tested in an Agilent Arabidopsis 3 Oligo Microarray (Agilent Technologies). For each biological replicate, the materials from two to three plants were pooled to make a single sample for RNA purification. Two repetitive microarray experiments were done using the biologically independent RNA samples. Total RNA was isolated with Trizol reagent (Invitrogen) and were used for the preparation of Cy5- and Cy3-labeled cDNA probes. All microarray experiments, including the data analysis, were performed according to the manufacturer's manual ( http://www.chem.agilent.com/Scripts/PCol.asp?lPage=494 ). Feature extraction and image analysis software (version 9.1.3.1; Agilent Technologies) was used to locate and delineate every spot in the array and to integrate each spot's intensity, filtering and normalization by the Lowess method. Gene clustering analysis was performed with Genespring 7.3.1 software (Agilent Technologies). On the basis of our empirical findings, expression of genes showing average signal intensity values of < 1000 in channel was not always detected reproducibly by RNA gel blot analysis. For the identification of the genes upregulated in the mutant, the following 3 criteria were used in this study: (1) expression ratios (mutant/control) > 2.0. (2) The genes show an average signal intensity > 1000 for the mutant samples. (3) The data were not flagged with the flags that Agilent Technologies recommends ( http://www.chem.agilent.com/Scripts/PHome.asp ) except for glsBGPopnOL and rlsBGPopnOL. For the identification of the genes downregulated in the mutant, the following 3 criteria were used in this study: (1) expression ratios (mutant/control) < 0.5. (2) The genes show an average signal value > 1,000 for the wild-type control samples. (3) The data were not flagged with the flags that Agilent Technologies recommends ( http://www.chem.agilent.com/Scripts/PHome.asp ) except for glsBGPopnOL and rlsBGPopnOL.
