!~ABS~! To study cellular morphogenesis genetically, we isolated loss-of-function mutants of Arabidopsis thaliana, designated ibo1. The ibo1 mutations cause local outgrowth in the middle of epidermal cells of the hypocotyls and petioles, resulting in the formation of a protuberance. In Arabidopsis, the hypocotyl epidermis differentiates into two alternate cell files, the stoma cell file and the non-stoma cell file, by a mechanism involving TRANSPARENT TESTA GLABRA1 (TTG1) and GLABRA2 (GL2). The ectopic protuberances of the ibo1 mutants were preferentially induced in the non-stoma cell files, which express GL2. TTG1-dependent epidermal patterning is required for protuberance formation in ibo1, suggesting that IBO1 functions downstream from epidermal cell specification. Pharmacological and genetic analyses demonstrated that ethylene promotes protuberance formation in ibo1, implying that IBO1 acts antagonistically to ethylene to suppress radial outgrowth. IBO1 is identical to NEK6, which encodes a Never In Mitosis A (NIMA)-related protein kinase (Nek) with sequence similarity to Neks involved in microtubule organization in fungi, algae, and animals. The ibo1-1 mutation, in which a conserved Glu residue in the activation loop is substituted by Arg, completely abolishes its kinase activity. The intracellular localization of GFP-tagged NEK6 showed that NEK6 mainly accumulates in cytoplasmic spots associated with cortical microtubules and with a putative component of the γ-tubulin complex. The localization of NEK6 is regulated by the C-terminal domain, which is truncated in the ibo1-2 allele. These results suggest that the role of NEK6 in the control of cellular morphogenesis is dependent on its kinase action and association with the cortical microtubules.
!~RES~! The epidermal cells of the hypocotyls of wild-type Arabidopsis seedlings elongate simply and do not show outward growth. A series of novel mutants were originally isolated on the basis of protuberances on the surfaces of their hypocotyls, resulting from the unusual outward growth of the epidermal cells (Figure 1a). These mutants were referred to as ‘ibo’, meaning ‘small protuberances’ in Japanese. Three recessive alleles of ibo1 (ibo1-1, ibo1-2, and ibo1-3) were identified and characterized. The ibo1-1 mutant was isolated from ethyl methane sulfonate (EMS)-mutagenized populations of the Wassilewskija accession (Ws). The ibo1-2 and ibo1-3 mutants were identified from EMS-mutagenized populations of the Columbia accession (Col). We also identified ibo1-4 from T-DNA insertion populations (CITATION), as described in a later section. Because all ibo1 alleles were very similar in the protuberance phenotype, the ibo1-1 mutant was mainly characterized in detail. In the ibo1-1 seedlings, the epidermal protuberances were observed not only on the hypocotyls but also on the petioles of cotyledons and rosette leaves (Figure 1a,b). Each protuberance was a single-cell structure with a round tip, similar in appearance to a root hair (Figure 1c). Each of the protruding epidermal cells formed only one protuberance, in the middle of the cell (Figure 1c). The protuberances became visible 3–6 days after germination (Figure 1d), which corresponds to the linear growth phase of hypocotyls (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] In Arabidopsis hypocotyls, two kinds of epidermal cell files are arranged alternately into the non-stoma cell file and the stoma cell file (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We examined the relationship between these cell files and the protuberances in ibo1. Close observation of the hypocotyl surface of the ibo1-1 mutant indicated that the protuberances are mostly restricted to the non-stoma cell files (Figure 1c), suggesting that the formation of protuberances is dependent on epidermal patterning. Next, we characterized the effects of the ibo1 mutations on the trichomes and root hairs. Whereas the number of trichomes per leaf was not affected by any ibo1 mutations (Figure S1), trichome branching was increased in ibo1-2 (Table S1). With respect to root-hair density, there was no difference between the wild type and the ibo1 mutants (Figure S2a,b). However, with regard to root-hair length, ibo1-1 was slightly shorter and ibo1-2 was rather longer than the wild type (Figure S2a,c). To characterize the ibo1 phenotype in more detail, we analyzed the cell-specific expression of GLABRA2 (GL2) and EXPANSIN7 (EXP7). A glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene was fused to the promoter region of GL2 (PGL2::GUS) or EXP7 (PEXP7::GUS), and these constructs were introduced into the wild type and ibo1-1. The GUS activity of the PGL2::GUS lines was localized to the non-stoma cell files in the hypocotyls (Figure 2a,c), the atrichoblast cell files in the roots (Figure 2e), and the trichomes in the leaves (Figure 2g). The GUS activity of the PEXP7::GUS lines was specific to the root-hair cells (Figure 2i,k). These patterns of reporter gene expression are consistent with the results of previous studies (CITATION; CITATION). The ibo1 mutation did not affect the expression patterns of PGL2::GUS or PEXP7::GUS (Figure 2a–l). It is noteworthy that the epidermal cells undergoing protuberance formation in ibo1-1 showed strong GUS activity in the PGL2::GUS lines (Figure 2d) and no GUS activity in the PEXP7::GUS lines (Figure 2j). These results indicate that the protuberances are induced in the non-stoma cell files expressing GL2 and also suggest that the protuberance-forming cells are similar in gene expression to trichome cells rather than to root-hair cells. [[FIGURE]] To test any possible genetic interactions of IBO1 with the epidermal regulators TTG1 and CAPRICE (CPC; CITATION), double mutant lines were generated and characterized for the hypocotyl phenotype (Figure 2m,n). TTG1 is required for the promotion of GL2 expression, which was prevented by CPC (CITATION). In the ibo1-1 ttg1-1 double mutant, the protuberances were strongly suppressed, indicating that TTG1-dependent epidermal patterning is required for the formation of protuberances in ibo1. The ibo1-1 cpc-1 double mutant formed protuberances like those of the ibo1-1 single mutant. With respect to the trichome and root-hair phenotypes of ttg1 and cpc, the ibo1 mutations had neither an enhancing nor a suppressing effect. Like the ttg1-1 single mutant, the ibo1-1 ttg1-1 double mutant exhibited severe defects in trichome development and ectopic root-hair formation in the normally atrichoblast cell files. Like the cpc-1 single mutant, root hairs were very few in the ibo1-1 cpc-1 double mutant. The double-mutant analyses demonstrated that protuberance formation in ibo1 involves TTG1, an important regulator required for trichome differentiation, but not CPC, a positive regulator of root-hair differentiation. This finding, together with the results for GL2 expression, suggests that the ibo1 protuberances might be trichome-like structures. Ethylene is well known to have a function of controlling the radial growth of plant cells, and it has been shown that ethylene promotes root-hair formation and elongation in Arabidopsis (Masucci and Schiefelbein, 1994, 1996; CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, we examined the effects of the ethylene precursor, 1-amino-cyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC), and the ethylene biosynthesis inhibitor, aminoethoxyvinylglycine (AVG), on protuberance formation in ibo1 (Figure 3a,b). When ibo1-1 seedlings were grown on germination medium (GM) supplemented with ACC, the number of protuberances was markedly increased. In contrast, ibo1-1 seedlings cultured on GM containing AVG had far fewer protuberances than the untreated ibo1-1 seedlings. The reduction of protuberances by AVG was counteracted by the simultaneous addition of ACC, suggesting that AVG and ACC affect protuberance formation via changes in ethylene biosynthesis. No protuberances were induced in the epidermal cells of the wild-type hypocotyls by any treatment tested. [[FIGURE]] The effects of genetic modification of ethylene signaling on protuberance formation in ibo1 were examined with ibo1-1 ctr1-1 and ibo1-1 ein2-1 double mutants. As shown in Figure 3(c,d), the ibo1-1 ctr1-1 double mutant showed significantly increased protuberances on the hypocotyl epidermis, suggesting that the constitutive activation of ethylene signaling by the ctr1-1 mutation enhanced protuberance formation in ibo1-1. In the ibo1-1 ein2-1 double mutant, the number of protuberances was fewer than in the ibo1-1 single mutant, suggesting a role for EIN2-dependent ethylene signaling in protuberance formation. Together, these results indicate the involvement of ethylene in protuberance formation in ibo1. To test the possible relationship between ibo1 protuberance formation and cell elongation, we examined the effects of dark-induced etiolation and gibberellic acid treatment (Figure 4). When hypocotyl elongation was stimulated by etiolation or gibberellic acid, the ibo1-1 seedlings formed very few protuberances on their hypocotyls. This result indicates that the promotion of cell elongation antagonizes protuberance formation in ibo1-1. [[FIGURE]] To determine the molecular basis of the ibo1 phenotype, we identified the IBO1 gene by map-based cloning (Figure 5a). The IBO1 gene was localized between markers 43920 and 44400 on chromosome 3. By determining the nucleotide sequences of the candidate genes in this region, we found mutations in one gene, At3g44200, in all ibo1 alleles (Figure 5b). Introduction of two genomic fragments (clones #1 and #2) encompassing At3g44200 into ibo1-2 recovered the normal phenotype (Figure 5c). A T-DNA insertion mutant of IBO1 was identified in the collection of SALK T-DNA insertion lines and was designated ibo1-4. The ibo1-4 mutant exhibited protuberances on its hypocotyls like the other ibo1 mutants described above (Figure 1a). These results indicate that At3g44200 is the IBO1 gene. Because At3g44200 was designated AtNek6 or NEK6 in previous reports (CITATION; CITATION), IBO1 will be referred to as NEK6 hereafter. [[FIGURE]] NEK6 is deduced to encode a protein of 956 amino acids, with a relative molecular mass of 106 388 and an isoelectric point of 6.76. Sequence analysis of NEK6 identified a Ser/Thr protein kinase domain at the N-terminus, which has significant homology to the kinase domains of the NIMA-related kinases of various organisms, including fungi, animals, and plants. In NEK6, the kinase domain is followed by a long tail containing three PEST degradation motifs and a coiled-coil domain near the C-terminus. The ibo1-1 mutant allele has a G to A transition at nucleotide position 529, which causes an amino acid substitution of Glu177 with Arg in the activation loop of the kinase domain. The ibo1-2 allele has a C to T transition at nucleotide position 1978, which alters the Gln660 codon to a stop codon and might result in the production of a truncated NEK6 protein without the C-terminal half, which contains the coiled-coil domain. The ibo1-3 allele has a C to T transition at nucleotide position 2746, which replaces Pro916 with Thr in the C-terminal region. Careful comparison with the amino acid sequences of plant Neks found a conserved sequence at the C-terminus following the coiled-coil domain (Figure 5b), which we designated the ‘plant NEK C-terminal motif’ (PNC motif). The Pro residue altered by the ibo1-3 mutation is highly conserved in this motif. Reverse transcription (RT)-PCR analysis detected the NEK6 transcripts in all the organs examined, especially in roots, inflorescence stems, and flowers (Figure 5d). The accumulation of the NEK6 transcripts was not significantly altered in ibo1-1 but was slightly reduced in ibo1-2 and ibo1-3 (Figure 5d). To investigate the protein kinase activity of NEK6, a recombinant protein glutathione S-transferase (GST)-NEK6, in which full-length NEK6 was fused at its N-terminus to GST, was expressed in Escherichia coli, purified with glutathione beads, and assayed for in vitro kinase activity (Figure 6). After electrophoresis of GST-NEK6 that had been incubated with [γ-32P]ATP, a radioactive band was detected at the position of GST-NEK6, indicating autophosphorylation activity of NEK6 (Figure 6a). When GST-NEK6 was incubated with myelin basic protein (MBP), an intense signal corresponding to the MBP band was detected, indicating transphosphorylation activity of NEK6 on MBP (Figure 6a). A requirement of NEK6 kinase activity for divalent cations was determined for both the autophosphorylation and the phosphorylation of MBP (Figure 6a). The addition of Mn2+ and Mg2+ to the reaction mixture produced strong and weak phosphorylation activities, respectively. No phosphorylation activity was detected with Ca2+ or in the absence of cations. The phosphorylation activity of GST-NEK6 incubated in buffer containing both Mn2+ and Mg2+ was slightly lower than that in buffer containing only Mn2+. These results indicate that NEK6 requires Mn2+ or Mg2+ but not Ca2+ , and prefers Mn2+ to Mg2+. [[FIGURE]] The ibo1-1 allele has an Arg substitution at Glu177, which occurs at the C-terminal end of the activation loop and is conserved in various kinase families, including the Nek family. The autophosphorylation of the Ser/Thr residues in the activation loop of the Nek proteins is required for full kinase activity (CITATION; CITATION). To examine whether the ibo1-1 mutation results in either the loss or reduction of the kinase activity of NEK6, the ibo1-1 mutation (E177R) was introduced into GST-NEK6. We also generated two kinase-dead negative controls (K37D and D133A) and three mutant proteins with single mutations at the putative phosphorylation sites of the activation loop (T157A, S166A, and T170A). The wild-type GST-NEK6 and mutated GST-NEK6 proteins were subjected to a kinase assay (Figure 6b). The ibo1-1 mutation (E177R) and the kinase-dead mutations (K37D and D133A) resulted in a total loss of kinase activity. The T157A mutation reduced the kinase activity. The mutations S166A and T170A greatly reduced the phosphorylation activity to the basal level, suggesting that these Ser/Thr residues are essential for the activation of NEK6 by autophosphorylation. To investigate the intracellular localization of NEK6, NEK6 fused at the N-terminus to GFP was transiently expressed in leaves of Nicotiana benthamiana. Strong fluorescence was observed in small dots aligned along the cortical filamentous structures (Figure 7a). Some of the strongly fluorescent dots were localized at the branching points of the filamentous structures. The GFP-NEK6 fluorescence pattern suggests that NEK6 is associated with cortical microtubules. To test this possibility, leaves were treated with the microtubule-stabilizing drug taxol, or the microtubule-depolymerizing drug oryzalin. Treatment with taxol intensified the fluorescent labeling of the filamentous structures (Figure 7a). In the presence of oryzalin, the filamentous structures disappeared, whereas the cortical fluorescent dots remained (Figure 7a). However, treatment with an actin microfilament-depolymerizing drug, latrunculin B, did not significantly affect the localization of GFP-NEK6 (Figure 7a). When the cells expressing GFP-NEK6 were immunolabeled for microtubules, the fluorescent dots and filaments of GFP-NEK6 were observed along with the cortical microtubules (Figure 7b). All these results showed that NEK6 is localized in association with the cortical microtubules. [[FIGURE]] To further characterize the small dots labeled with GFP-NEK6, a putative ortholog of NEDD1, a component of the γ-tubulin complex (CITATION; CITATION), was co-expressed in a monomeric red fluorescent protein (mRFP)-fused form (NEDD1-mRFP) with GFP-NEK6 (Figure 7c). The GFP-NEK6 dots at the branching points of the microtubules were localized in close proximity to the dots labeled with NEDD1-mRFP, suggesting some relationships of NEK6 with the NEDD1-containing γ-tubulin complex. We also analyzed the subcellular localization of the ibo1 mutant NEK6 proteins (Figure 7d). GFP-NEK6E177R, GFP-NEK6Q660stop, and GFP-NEK6P916T contain the ibo1-1, ibo1-2, and ibo1-3 mutations, respectively. GFP-NEK6E177R and GFP-NEK6P916T labeled cytoplasmic spots associated with the cortical filaments, as did the wild-type GFP-NEK6, whereas GFP-NEK6Q660stop localized preferentially to the nucleus (Figure 7d). These results imply that the C-terminal region containing the coiled-coil domain (amino acids 660–956), which is truncated by the ibo1-2 mutation, is required for the association of NEK6 with microtubules. To evaluate the roles of NEK6 in the regulation of microtubules, the orientation of cortical microtubules in the hypocotyl epidermis was examined by confocal immunofluorescence microscopy (Figure S3). The majority of the cortical microtubules were arrayed transversely to the long axis of cells in the wild type. In ibo1-1, the orientation angles of microtubules centered around 90° but were slightly more deviated than the wild type. In statistical analysis using the Kolmogorov–Smirnov test, however, no significant difference was detected between the wild type and ibo1-1.
!~MM~! To isolate the ibo1 mutants, the wild-type Ws and Col seeds were treated with 0.1% solution of EMS for 16 h at room temperature. Approximately 10 000 M2 seedlings were screened for protuberances on the hypocotyl epidermis. The PGL2::GUS line and cpc-1 are described in Wada et al. (2002, 1997), respectively. The PEXP7::GUS line (CITATION) was kindly provided by Dr Takashi Aoyama (Kyoto University, Japan). The ttg1-1, ctr1-1, and ein2-1 seeds were provided from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC). The seeds and information about ibo1-4 (SALK_152782) were obtained from the SIGnAL website (http://signal.salk.edu) and ABRC. For growth of seedlings, surface-sterilized seeds were plated on germination medium [GM, half-strength Murashige and Skoog salts containing Gamborg B5 vitamins and 10 g l–1 sucrose buffered with 0.5 g l–1 (N-morpholino)ethanesulfonic acid to pH 5.7 and solidified with 0.25% gellan gum]. After 2 days at 4°C, plates were incubated at 22°C in continuous light. Mapping was carried out by DNA analysis with simple sequence length polymorphism (CITATION) and cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence markers (CITATION). Genomic clones #1 and #2 were isolated from the transformation-competent genomic library (CITATION) and used for complementation analysis. Arabidopsis plants were transformed by the floral dip method (CITATION). Total RNA was extracted as described previously (CITATION). After treatment with RNase-free DNase I (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com/), first strand cDNA was synthesized with Superscript III (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer’s instructions and was used as a template for PCR with gene-specific primer sets (Table S2) for 30 cycles (IBO1), 25 cycles (ACT1), 25 cycles (EF1a). Samples of GUS lines were stained as described (CITATION). The DNA fragment containing the full-length open reading frame (ORF) for IBO1 was cloned into a Gateway® (Invitrogen) binary vector of pGWB6 that provides a N-terminal GFP fusion protein driven by the CaMV35S promoter (CITATION). The NEDD1 ORF fragment was cloned into a Gateway® binary vector that provides a C-terminal mRFP fusion protein driven by the CaMV35S promoter (CITATION). Transient expression of GFP-IBO1 and NEDD1-mRFP in leaves of N. benthamiana was performed by agroinfiltration (CITATION; CITATION). Indirect immunofluorescence staining was performed to visualize microtubules according to CITATION and CITATION. Rat monoclonal anti-α-tubulin antibody YL1/2 (Abcam, http://www.abcam.com/) was used as a first antibody at the dilution of 1/100. Alexa 568 anti-rat-IgG antibody (Invitrogen) or fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC)-conjugated anti-rat-IgG antibody (Sigma-Aldrich, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/) was used as a secondary antibody at a dilution of 1/250. Quantitative analysis of microtubule orientation was done as described by CITATION. Arabidopsis plants were observed using a stereoscopic microscope MZ12 (Leica Microsystems, http://www.leica-microsystems.com/) equipped with DFC480 CCD camera. A DM5000B (Leica) equipped with DFC480 was used for the light microscopy and fluorescence microscopy. An LSM510 (Zeiss, http://www.zeiss.com/) was used for the confocal laser scanning microscopy. Scanning electron microscopy was performed according to CITATION with a JSM-5200LV (JEOL, http://www.jeol.com/). The cDNA encoding the full-length IBO1 was cloned into the GST fusion vector pGEX4T-2 (GE Healthcare, http://www.gehealthcare.com/). The point mutations were introduced by the KOD-plus mutagenesis kit (TOYOBO, http://www.toyobo.co.jp/e/). One microgram of the GST-tagged recombinant proteins was incubated with or without 1 μg MBP in 20 μl of kinase buffer containing 10 μCi [γ-32P]ATP at 24°C for 30 min. Reaction products were separated by SDS-PAGE and detected by autoradiography. The detailed experimental procedure is available in Appendix S1.
