!~ABS~! Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. possesses two PROTEIN-L-ISOASPARTATE METHYLTRANSFERASE (PIMT) genes encoding enzymes (EC 2.1.1.77) capable of converting uncoded l-isoaspartyl residues, arising spontaneously at l-asparaginyl and l-aspartyl sites in proteins, to l-aspartate. PIMT2 produces at least eight transcripts by using four transcriptional initiation sites (TIS; resulting in three different initiating methionines) and both 5′- and 3′-alternative splice site selection of the first intron. The transcripts produce mature proteins capable of converting l-isoaspartate to l-aspartate in small peptide substrates. PIMT:GFP fusion proteins generated a detectable signal in the nucleus. However, whether the protein was also detectable in the cytoplasm, endo-membrane system, chloroplasts, and/or mitochondria, depended on the transcript from which it was produced. On-blot-methylation of proteins, prior to the completion of germination, indicated that cruciferin subunits contain isoaspartate. The implications of using transcriptional mechanisms to expand a single gene’s repertoire to protein variants capable of entry into the cell’s various compartments are discussed in light of PIMT’s presumed role in repairing the proteome.
!~RES~! Characterization of PIMT2 (At5g50240) identified 13 5′-rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE; specific for capped RNA) products. Two cDNA clones of PIMT2 TISI, differing by a nine-nucleotide, 3′-alternative splicing event were assembled and reported (CITATION; Figure 1b). Of the remaining 5′-RACE products seven terminated in a region designated as the second transcriptional initiation site (TISII; Figure 1b) and four 5′-RACE amplicons terminated in a region containing a third transcriptional initiation site (TISIII; Figure 1b). A transcript commencing at TISI was confirmed from amplicons retrieved while verifying 5′- and 3′-alternative splicing variants (see below and CITATION) using PCR primers, one of which (CH5F; Figure 1b) bound to the 5′ region of cDNAs synthesized exclusively from TISI transcripts. However, whether the other TISs discovered by 5′-RACE were real or were from truncated mRNA that avoided the dephosphorylation step associated with the capped RNA 5′-RACE protocol (GeneRacer kit, Invitrogen Corp., http://www.invitrogen.com/) remained unresolved. The riboprobe used to map the 5′-termini of PIMT2 transcripts by ribonuclease protection assays (RPAs) was prone to self-protection, and so primer extension analysis on total RNA from seedlings or rosette leaves was used instead. For each of the amplicons associated with each TIS, no one consensus nucleotide was consistently identified by RACE as the initiation site. Rather, RACE identified different 5′-termini for each TIS, all within a region of 5–20 bp, depending on the TIS. So, we also wanted to determine whether there were predominant nucleotides from which transcription usually commenced in each TIS region or whether transcription initiation along the PIMT2 gene was promiscuous. To do this we chose the longest 5′-RACE product discovered for each of the three TISs and amplified PIMT2 cDNA from it using PCR. These amplicons were diluted and included as positive controls in the primer extension analysis. Primer extension revealed that there were at least four discrete, predominant TISs for PIMT2 (Figure 1c–g). The TIS I identified by RACE was very similar to that revealed by primer extension (Figure 1c,d), lying between 20 and 23 nucleotides 5′ of the ATG. The longest TISII discerned using 5′-RACE was considerably longer than two predominant TISIIs discovered by primer extension (Figure 1c,e). Because both of these TISII sites were still 5′ to the translational initiation codon, they were designated TISIIa and TISIIb because they would result in the same protein (Figure 1c,e; labeled TIS Ia and -b (arrows) to the left of the bands in the experimental lanes (RNA)). The difference among the TISII discovered by primer extension (Figure 1e) and that from 5′-RACE was approximately 36 (a) and 48 (b) nucleotides, with TISIIb at least 18 nucleotides 5′ to the ATG. The TISIII documented by 5′-RACE (‘III’ over the third lane) was also considerably longer than the most predominant TISIII observed using primer extension (Figure 1f,g labeled TISIII (arrow) in the experimental lanes, RNA). The difference in length was approximately 21 nucleotides (see Figure 1g), which was still 5′ to the translational initiation for the PIMT2 TISIII protein which could not be resolved with the primer used for the primer extension and sequencing (see Figure 1b). Based on the sequences retrieved from 5′-RACE, PIMT2 transcripts are subject to alternative 5′- and 3′-splice site selection of the first intron (Figure 1b). At least one amplicon terminating in each of the three transcriptional initiation regions was differentially spliced at the 3′ end. One of seven 5′-RACE products terminating in the TISII region utilized the 5′ alternative splice site (β). Using primers spanning intron I, the 5′-most of which (CH5F) was specific for cDNAs from transcripts commencing at TISI, three amplicons were obtained (Figure 1h) that, when sequenced, corresponded to PIMT2 TISIβψ, αψ,and αω. We did not observe amplicons corresponding to a βω splicing event. Neither did we have indications that the other two introns in PIMT2 were differentially spliced. We were unable to establish the existence of PIMT2 TISIIIβψ using 5′-RACE but neither can we exclude this possibility and, based on the presence of a βψ splicing event for the other TIS, determined its existence was probable. Our data indicate that there are no fewer than four predominant transcriptional initiation sites in PIMT2 (I, IIa, IIb, and III, Figure 2) and that these transcripts can be further modified using either 5′- or 3′-alternative splice site selection of the first intron (Figure 2). [[FIGURE]] Attempts to verify the existence of proteins translated from the various transcripts in vivo were only partially successful due to the attenuation of signal from PIMT2 antibodies during double affinity purification (see Experimental procedures; CITATION) to avoid cross-hybridization with PIMT1 (Figure 3a). Nevertheless, a second immunoreactive protein, possibly corresponding to protein from a PIMT2 TISII splicing variant, was present in cell fractions containing PIMT2 TISI protein (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To maximize the sensitivity of the western blot analysis we used antibodies that had undergone a single affinity purification that bound to PIMT1, PIMT2 TISI, TISII, and TISIII (see Experimental procedures). Regardless of where else the PIMT2 proteins resided they were all discernible to some degree in the nucleus (see below) and we reasoned that these forms would retain their N-termini which (barring post-translational modifications) would allow the prediction of immunoreactive band sizes on a western blot. As was the case in a previous study (CITATION), we found no indication of a PIMT2 TISIβψ protein (Figure 3b). However, a band corresponding in size to PIMT2 TISIαψ and/or αω was discernible (34.1 and 33.7 kDa, respectively; Figure 3b). Longer exposure of the blot revealed bands that are in the correct size range for all three PIMT2 TIS II proteins generated from the three splicing variants βψ, αψ, and αω (32.5–30.2 kDa; Figure 3b). There are also bands that could correspond to any of the PIMT2 TISIII proteins, including TISIIIβψ (26.7–24.4 kDa; Figure 3b). Because the isoelectric points do not vary between the αψ and αω splice variants, western blots from two-dimensional (2D) gels (data not shown) were no more helpful in determining the exact number of PIMT2 proteins in vivo than the one-dimensional (1D) blot portrayed (Figure 3b). It is possible that the various proteins produced from the PIMT2 transcripts include target peptides that are removed upon import into the mitochondria and/or plastids. Predictions of the size of the protein produced upon such import (Figure 3b) corresponded with bands present on the western blot (Figure 3b‘processed’) despite the fact that the protein came from crude nuclear preparations. Protein subcellular localization was correlated throughout the study with a variety of control fusion proteins targeted to the nucleus (CITATION), the mitochondria (CITATION), the endoplasmic reticulum (ER; CITATION; CITATION), the cytoplasm and nucleus (CITATION), or associated with the microtubules (CITATION). PIMT2 fused to the green fluorescent protein (GFP; experimental) and appropriate control plasmids using red fluorescent protein (RFP) or DsRED targeted to various subcellular compartments were co-bombarded into cells on gold particles. When expressed alone, without a fusion, the distribution of GFP/RFP and DsRED were very similar, being distributed throughout the cytoplasm and nucleus (CITATION; Figure 4a,b). They were not associated with the mitochondria (data not shown) or the chloroplasts (chlorophyll autofluorescence; Figure 4c,d). PIMT1 showed a similar distribution to that of the GFP/RFP/DsRED (Figure 4e) but with a greater propensity to aggregate in threads throughout the cell, surrounding but not entering the chloroplasts (Figure 4e,h). Suspecting that these threads might be cytoskeletal in nature, the distribution of MAP65-1:DsRED and PIMT1 was examined in co-bombarded cells (Figs. 4e–h). There does not seem to be an exact match between where PIMT1 and tubulin are situated but there is some overlap (Figure 4h). [[FIGURE]] Regardless of transcriptional initiation site or splicing variant, the PIMT2 proteins were all observed in the nucleus in most cells. However, in many instances, the presence of the fusion protein in the nucleus appeared at low levels, probably due to lack of exclusion from the nucleus as seen with GFP alone, and not due to import or sequestering. Indeed, although the nuclear localization signal was only present in PIMT2 proteins translated from a message commencing from the first TIS, none of these proteins had the nucleus as their primary residence (Figure 5; TISI). Instead, both PIMT2 TISIαψ and PIMT2 TISIαω were predominately present in the chloroplasts and in small, motile bodies suspected of being mitochondria (Figure 5 TISIαψ and αω). PIMT2 TISIβψ was not observed in the chloroplasts but was present in small motile bodies (Figure 5, βψ). Mitochondrial localization was confirmed when cells were co-bombarded with a mitochondrial-targeted RFP construct (Figure 6a–c; Figure S1). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The TISIIαψ and αω proteins were prominent in the nucleus to which the AtZFP-DsRED fusion was directed (Figure 5, TISIIαψ and αω; data not shown). They were also present throughout the cell similar to GFP alone (Figure 4a). Both proteins appeared to surround, but not enter, the plastids in the same manner as PIMT1 (data not shown). PIMT2 TISII protein produced from transcript using the β-5′-alternative splice site were present in the chloroplasts and in the mitochondria to which the mitochondrial targeted RFP fusion protein was also directed (Figure 5 TISIIβψ, Figure 6d–f, Figure S2). There were no differences in subcellular residence of PIMT2 TISIII proteins from transcripts using αψ or αω splice sites, both being located in the nucleus and throughout the cytoplasm (Figure 5, TISIIIαψ and αω). The pervasive strands formed by the GFP-fused PIMT2 TISIII proteins produced from transcript spliced α suggested they might be associated with components of the cytoskeleton. A co-bombarded MAP65-1 coding region fused to the DsRED cDNA indicated that at least some TISIIIαψ and TISIIIαω, like the PIMT1 protein, was co-localized with the MAP65 protein in association with microtubules (Figure 6g–i,j–l; optical sections in Figure S3). In addition to low-level expression in the nucleus, PIMT2 TISIIIβψ was present in the chloroplasts and was associated with cytoplasmic strands that co-localized with an ER-targeted RFP fusion protein (Figure 5, TISIIIβψ, and Figure 6m–o; FigureS4). The predominant predicted and observed subcellular locale of each PIMT2 isoform were frequently different (Table S1). Attempts to use recombinant Arabidopsis PIMT1 for on-blot methylation (OBM) were unsuccessful while signal from recombinant human PIMT (rHsPIMT) was detectable (Figure 7a) and resolution improved using Enhance spray and X-ray film rather than a tritium screen (Figure 7b). Preparing the blotted extracts for OBM allowed rHsPIMT to renature sufficiently to bind S-adenosyl-l-methionine (AdoMet) (Figure 7b). Liquid assays with only rHsPIMT as both enzyme and substrate indicated that the signal was not due to self-repair (data not shown; CITATION). Seed extracts exhibited several prominent bands (Figure 7b). [[FIGURE]] Protein abundance based on Coomassie staining did not invariably correspond with signal intensity from OBM (CITATION; Figure 7c). In all, 32 cored samples were sequenced, 27 of which were unique. Five samples (2, 7, 13, 15, 16; Figure 7c) from a separate OBM experiment were cored from their Coomassie-stained gel and these were identified as the same acid/basic subunit from the same gene product (Table S2) demonstrating repeatability.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis [Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh., ecotype Wassilewskija; Ws] seeds were moist chilled on germination blotter (Grade 628, Stults Scientific Engineering, http://www.stultsscientific.com/) in a Petri dish (Fisher Scientific, http://www.fishersci.com/) at 4°C for 3 days then transferred to 25°C under continuous fluorescent light (135 μmol m−2 sec−1). Six hours prior to the completion of germination or 7 days after transfer to 25°C, seeds/seedlings were harvested for protein/RNA isolation, respectively. Alternatively, seedlings were transferred to soil and grown at 25°C with 16 h of fluorescent light daily (200 μmol m−2 sec−1). Three weeks after transfer, plants were harvested, the soil removed from the roots, and RNA isolated from leaves and roots. Tobacco seedlings (cv. KY160), the leaves from which were used for transient expression experiments, were grown aseptically on a minimal MS salts (CITATION), 3%(w/v) sucrose, 0.8%(w/v) phytagar, 16/8 h light/dark cycles at 25°C. For bombardment, leaves were collected from 3 to 4-week-old seedlings. Total RNA was isolated from rosette leaves using a kit (RNeasy Plant Kit, Qiagen Inc., http://www.qiagen.com/) and from seedlings using TRIzol reagent (Invitrogen) according to the respective manufacturers’ instructions. Total RNA was isolated from mature, dehydrated seeds using a hot borate technique (CITATION). Total RNA isolated from Arabidopsis rosette leaves was pretreated with DNaseI (DNA-free, Ambion Inc., http://www.ambion.com/) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The 5′-RACE procedures designed to amplify only capped mRNA were performed on 2.5 μg of DNaseI-treated leaf total RNA using gene-specific primers and a kit (GeneRacer, Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The PCR was performed on 3 μl of first-strand cDNA, using gene-specific primers in conjunction with primers designed to the reverse transcribed RNA-adaptor ligated to the 5′-end of full length RNA in 5′-RACE (Invitrogen). Amplicons were isolated from 1%(w/v) agarose gels following electrophoresis, cloned into a T/A vector, and sequenced. In separate experiments, a PCR primer identical to the cDNA sequence representing transcripts produced from the first transcriptional initiation site (TIS I; primer CH5F; Figure 1b) of the PIMT2 TISI was used with a reverse primer (CH5R; Figure 1b) binding to the second exon of all cDNAs to verify the presence of three splicing variants (βψ, αψ, and αω). The PCR reaction was run on a 4%(w/v) Metaphor agarose gel (Cambrex Inc., http://www.cambrex.com/) and then stained with 10 μg μl−1 SYBR Gold dye (Molecular Probes, http://www.probes.com/). Primer extension assays were performed to map the transcription start sites as described in CITATION with slight modification. The first 21 nucleotides 5′ of the alpha splice site in the first intron (arrow with asterisk in Figure 1b) was used as a primer, 5′-end labeled with [γ32P]ATP (3000 Ci mmol−1, Perkin-Elmer Life and Analytical Sciences, Inc., http://www.perkinelmer.com/) using Optikinase (United States Biochemical (USB), Corporation, http://www.usbweb.com/) and column purified (ProbeQuant G-50 micro column; Amersham Pharmacia Biotech, http://www5.amershambiosciences.com/). Total RNA (50 μg) was hybridized with the 5′-end labeled oligonucleotide at 65°C for 90 min in 1.5 m KCl, 0.1 m 2-amino-2-(hydroxymethyl)-1,3-propanediol (TRIS)-Cl (pH 8.3) and 10 mm EDTA. The reaction was precipitated, washed, redissolved, and the primer allowed to extend with SuperscriptTM III RNase H− Reverse Transcriptase (Invitrogen) at 50°C for 60 min. The product was RNase treated in the presence of salmon sperm DNA (100 μg ml−1), precipitated, reconstituted, and resolved in 8% denaturing polyacrylamide gel containing 8.3 m urea. Sequencing reactions were performed in the presence of [α33P] dATP with the same oligonucleotide on the PIMT2 TISI-pNCO1T plasmid using Sequenase Version 2.0 DNA Sequencing Kit (USB) and was resolved in the same gel as a sequencing ladder. The controls were PCR amplified from PIMT2 TISI-pNCO1T with the forward primer commencing from the longest 5′-RACE-predicted start sites of PIMT2-TISI, TISII and TISIII (Figure 1b) and the same end-labeled reverse primer used in the primer extension reaction. Once the TIS and splicing regimes were clarified, predicted protein sequences were analyzed using PredictProtein (http://www.predictprotein.org/; CITATION) algorithms. Some splicing variants were cloned in frame into the XmaI, XhoI sites of pET43.1 (Novagen Inc., http://www.novagen.com) by introducing BspEI, Sal/1 sites into the PIMT2 5′- and 3′-termini, respectively. The PIMT2 TISIIIαψ and αω and PIMT2 TISIIαψ coding regions were cloned into the NcoI, XhoI sites of pET23d (Novagen Inc.) using amplicon-introduced BspHI and SalI sites. Recombinant human PIMT, the kind gift of Dr Steven Clarke (UCLA, USA) was subcloned into pET30b in-frame with a carboxy-terminal hexahistidyl tag. Recombinant protein production was induced in E. coli [BL21(DE3)RIL; Stratagene, http://www.stratagene.com/] and SDS-PAGE was used to determine solubility. All had some discernible protein in the soluble fraction except PIMT2 TISIIαψ which was purified as an inclusion body, solubilized in 6 m urea, diluted and tested for PIMT activity in 0.3 m urea. All other recombinant proteins were purified using nickel columns (Hi-Trap, GE Healthcare, http://www.gehealthcare.com/) and fast protein liquid chromatography (FPLC), and tested for activity (CITATION). Antibodies were affinity-purified using recombinant protein from bacteria expressing PIMT1, PIMT2 TISIαω, PIMT2 TISIIαω, or PIMT2 TISIIIαω. Seven hundred and fifty micrograms of each recombinant protein was run in preparative 12% SDS-PAGE mini-gels and blotted to polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF) membrane (Millipore Immobilon-P, http://www.millipore.com/). Blots were stained with Ponceau-S for visualization according to the instructions provided with the membrane and cut in 7.5 × 0.5 cm strips which were destained after excision. One strip for each recombinant protein (PIMT1, PIMT2 TISI, TISII, and TISIII) was put in a tube and incubated (for 1 h) with 9 ml blocking solution [PBS, 0.02%(v/v) Tween-20, 1%(w/v) non-fat dry milk], slowly shaking at room temperature. One milliliter of serum containing antibody to PIMT2 that also cross-reacted with PIMT1 was added and incubation was continued for 1 h. The solution was discarded; the strips rinsed and washed for 3 × 5 min in PBS and transferred to a small glass culture tube. Bound antibody was eluted (4 ml 10 mm KH2PO4, pH 2.3) the culture tube capped, shaken vigorously, and poured into 6 ml ice-cold 50 mm K2HPO4 (bringing the pH to 7.0). The strips were rinsed (2 × 4.5 ml of water) and this wash combined with the first elution. The purified antibody was amended [80 mm NaCl, 3%(w/v) non-fat dried milk, 0.15%(v/v) Tween-20] adjusted to 25 ml and the preparation stored (4°C) until use. The PIMT2 TISI-specific antibody (Figure 3a; CITATION) was made by subsequently exposing the antibody, purified as above, to strips containing PIMT1 and retrieving the supernatant. A crude nuclear preparation used 2 g wild-type Arabidopsis (WS) seeds ground in 10 ml isolation solution (50 mm potassium phosphate, pH 6.8, 10 mm NaCl, 300 mm sucrose). The paste was scraped into a beaker on ice with 50 ml isolation solution and stirred for 10 min. The sample volume was adjusted to 200 ml with isolation solution and filtered through two layers of cheesecloth and one layer of Miracloth, (Calbiochem, http://www.calbiochem.com). A pellet was obtained by centrifuging for 30 min at 2000 g at 4°C. This was washed twice by resuspending first in 50 ml and then in 15 ml of ice-cold isolation solution, and centrifuging for 15 min at 4000 g at 4°C. The final pellet was resuspended in 1 ml ice-cold isolation solution. A 1:100 dilution of the sample typically produced an OD595 of 0.35–0.5 (roughly 3–4.25 μg protein μl−1) and 40 μg protein/well was resolved through 1.5 mm-thick SDS-PAGE mini-gels. Western blots on PVDF membranes were blocked for 2 × 10 min [PBS, 3%(w/v) non-fat dried milk, 0.15%(v/v) Tween-20] with constant agitation and incubated in affinity-purified antibody (25 ml blot−1) for 2 h at 23°C with agitation. Blots were rinsed in water and washed (PBS, 3 × 5 min) before incubation (2 h) in anti-rabbit IgG-horseradish peroxidase (HRP) conjugate (1:10,000; Sigma-Aldrich Co., http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/) in blocking solution. Blots were rinsed, washed (3 × 5 min in PBS), and developed according to the manufacturer’s instructions (Amersham ECL) using Classic BX X-ray film (Molecular Technologies, http://www.moltec.net). The PIMT2 coding sequences were cloned downstream from the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S2 promoter in-frame with a 3′-situated GFP reporter in the binary vector, pKYLX80 (CITATION; CITATION). For positive controls in co-localization experiments DsRED or RFP (GenBank accession number DQ005474) were substituted for GFP in the pKYLX80 vector. Nuclear targeting used a portion of a zinc-finger protein in-frame with DsRED (CITATION). For mitochondrial targeting, 180 bp of the 5′-coding sequence of the A. thaliana ALTERNATIVE NAD(P)H DEHYDROGENASE gene (NDA2; At2g29990; CITATION) was cloned in-frame with the RFP cDNA into the XhoI/SacI sites of pKYLX80 RFP vector. For microtubule targeting, the full length A. thaliana MICROTUBULE-ASSOCIATED PROTEIN 65-1 (AtMAP65-1; At5g55230), coding sequence was cloned into the BglII/SalI sites of the pGD DsRED vector (CITATION). For ER targeting, the pSITE:RFP vector (CITATION), containing ER targeting and retention sequences (GenBank accession number U87974; CITATION), were obtained from M. Goodin and R. Chakrabarty, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY, USA. Transient GFP/DsRED/RFP assays were conducted by introducing 100 ng DNA (per plasmid) (coated onto 1-μm diameter gold microcarriers; Bio-Rad Laboratories, http://www.bio-rad.com/) into tobacco leaf disk cells using a PDS1000 DuPont Bio-Rad Microprojectile delivery system (Bio-Rad Laboratories). Tobacco leaf disks were cultured for 24–48 h on media (CITATION). Disks were mounted on slides, and viewed in water under a coverslip using an Olympus FV1000 laser-scanning confocal microscope (Olympus America, Inc., http://www.olympusamerica.com/). Two identical 1D and 2D gel electrophoreses of seed proteins were simultaneously prepared. One gel was stained with Coomassie Brilliant Blue while the other was transferred overnight to PVDF. After transfer, the PVDF membrane was blocked at 23°C [30 min in 0.2 mg ml−1 BSA, 10 mm 2-(N-morpholino)ethanesulfonic acid (MES), pH 6.2]. The proteins were subjected to OBM (CITATION) at 23°C for 20 min in 500 μl [100 mm MES pH 6.2, 4 μm rHsPIMT, [3H] AdoMet (10 μCi made to 10 μm in the reaction mix with cold AdoMet), 0.1 mg ml−1 BSA]. The blot was then rinsed briefly with water followed by washing with stop buffer (2 × 15 min in 10 mm MES pH 6.2, 50 μmS-adenosylhomocysteine (AdoHcy), 0.3 m NaCl, 0.05% v/v Tween 20). Finally, the blot was soaked in water for 5 min, sprayed with En3hance (PerkinElmer Life And Analytical Sciences, Inc.), dried, and exposed to X-ray film for 20 22 h. The developed film was placed under the Coomassie stained sister gel on a light box, and proteins cored from it. Gel cores were minced, destained [2 × 0.5 h washes with 50 mm NH4HCO3/50% (v/v) CH3CN followed by 10 min vortexing], dried in a vacuum centrifuge, and reduced by incubation at 57°C for 30 min (50 mm NH4HCO3, 10 mm DTT). The liquid was discarded and the proteins were alkylated (50 mm NH4HCO3, 50 mm iodoacetamide, incubated in the dark for 30 min at 23°C). The gel was washed (2 × 50 mm NH4HCO3; 1 × 100% CH3CN) and partially dried in a vacuum centrifuge before being rehydrated [50 mm NH4HCO3, 10 ng μl−1 sequencing grade modified trypsin (Promega, http://www.promega.com/)] on ice for 1 h. An additional 50 mm NH4HCO3 was added to cover the sample and the gel was incubated for 18 h at 37°C. Peptides were extracted from the gel, desalted, and concentrated by solid-phase extraction using a homemade device [0.1–10 μl pipette tip (no. 70.113, Sarstedt, http://www.sarstedt.com/)] packed with about 1 mm of Empore C-18 (no. 2215, 3M, http://www.3m.com/), and peptides were eluted in 3 μl of 50% (v/v) CH3CN, 0.1% (v/v) trifluoroacetic acid (TFA). Desalted peptide extracts were spotted onto an Opti-TOF 384-well insert (Applied Biosystems/MDS Sciex, http://www.appliedbiosystems.com/) with 0.2 μl 5 mg ml−1 alpha-cyano-4-hydroxycinnamic acid (Sigma-Aldrich) in 50% (v/v) CH3CN, 50% (v/v) 0.1% (v/v) TFA and made to 10 mm in NH4H2PO4. Crystallized samples were washed with cold 0.1% (v/v) TFA and were analyzed by an Applied Biosystems 4800 MALDI-TOF-TOF Proteomics Analyzer. An initial MALDI MS spectrum was acquired for each spot (400 laser shots per spectrum) and a maximum of five peaks with a signal-to-noise ratio of >20 were automatically selected for tandem mass spectroscopy (MS/MS) analysis (1000 shots per spectrum) by post-source decay. Peak lists from the MS/MS spectra were submitted for database similarity searching using an in-house copy of mascot, Version 2.1 (Matrix Science, Inc., http://www.matrixscience.com/). The mass tolerance was ±0.5 Da for MS/MS precursor ions and ±0.1 Da for MS/MS product ions. Searches were against the NCBInr (10 November 2006, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov) database.
