!~ABS~! Exposure of Arabidopsis thaliana plants to high levels of light revealed specific phosphorylation of a 40 kDa protein in photosynthetic thylakoid membranes. The protein was identified by MS as extracellular calcium‐sensing receptor (CaS), previously reported to be located in the plasma membrane. By confocal laser scanning microscopy and subcellular fractionation, it was demonstrated that CaS localizes to the chloroplasts and is enriched in stroma thylakoids. The phosphorylation level of CaS responded strongly to light intensity. The light‐dependent thylakoid protein kinase STN8 is required for CaS phosphorylation. The phosphorylation site was mapped to the stroma‐exposed Thr380, located in a motif for interaction with 14‐3‐3 proteins and proteins with forkhead‐associated domains, which suggests the involvement of CaS in stress responses and signaling pathways. The knockout Arabidopsis lines revealed a significant role for CaS in plant growth and development. 
!~RES~! In order to investigate the molecular mechanisms involved in acclimation of plant photosynthetic machinery to high light intensities, we isolated thylakoid membranes from the leaves of Arabidopsis and analyzed the light‐induced changes in protein phosphorylation by immunoblotting with phosphothreonine‐specific antibody (Fig. 1A). This analysis revealed the phosphorylation of a novel polypeptide with a molecular mass of about 40 kDa whose level of phosphorylation strongly increased with rising irradiance. To identify this 40 kDa phosphoprotein, thylakoids isolated from leaves exposed to high‐light treatment were subjected to trypsin shaving [CITATION, CITATION]. The surface‐exposed domains of membrane proteins were released and separated from the membranes by centrifugation. The resulting complex mixture of hydrophilic peptides was subjected to immobilized metal affinity chromatography (IMAC) [CITATION] for phosphopeptide enrichment. The enriched phosphopeptides were analyzed by liquid chromatography (LC)‐MS/MS.  [[FIGURE]] Besides several known phosphopeptides of the thylakoid membranes (supplementary Table S1), the analysis of data allowed the identification of a novel, previously uncharacterized phosphopeptide. The product ion spectrum of the corresponding doubly charged molecular ion with m/z 573.8 is presented in Fig. 1B. The series of b‐ and y‐ions revealed the peptide sequence SGtKFLPSSD, with lowercase ‘t’ indicating phoshorylated Thr. A search in the Arabidopsis protein sequence database revealed that the amino acid sequence belongs to the C‐terminus of the expressed protein At5g23060 with deduced molecular mass 41.3 kDa, previously described as an extracellular CaS [CITATION].  In a parallel approach, the gel region corresponding to the 40 kDa phosphoprotein band in the gel (Fig. 1A) was cut out and subjected to in‐gel digestion for protein identification by LC‐MS/MS. CaS, together with 14 other proteins, was identified from this gel band (supplementary Table S2).  CaS‐specific antibody was then used to determine whether the increased occurrence of phosphorylated CaS under high‐light conditions (Fig. 1A) was related to an increase in the amount of CaS per se. As shown in Fig. 1C, the total amount of CaS protein was not drastically changed by increasing irradiance, but the phosphorylated form of CaS (P‐CaS) clearly accumulated under high‐light conditions as compared to darkness.  Localization of the CaS phosphoprotein to the thylakoid membrane, as discussed above, is in good agreement with proteomics studies [CITATION-CITATION], but strongly contrasts with a previous report of the plasma membrane localization of CaS, using heterologous expression in onion epidermis cells, which unfortunately lack chloroplasts [CITATION]. To address this apparent discrepancy, the subcellular localization of the endogenous CaS in Arabidopsis was investigated by exploiting purified membrane fractions and immunoblotting with purified CaS‐specific antibody. CaS was not found in purified plasma membrane, whereas it was present in intact chloroplasts and in the thylakoid fraction but not in the stroma fraction (Fig. 2A). The purity of the membrane fractions was demonstrated by using plasma membrane‐specific ferroxidase (FOX1) and thylakoid membrane‐specific D1 antibodies as specific markers (Fig. 2A).  [[FIGURE]] To further dissect the distribution of CaS in the thylakoid membrane, the thylakoids isolated from leaves exposed to high light were fractionated by digitonin [CITATION]. Immunoblot analysis of thylakoid fractions revealed the presence of CaS both in grana and in stroma thylakoids, and its clear enrichment in the stroma‐exposed membranes (Fig. 2B).  To further investigate the contradiction between our data and published reports showing the targeting of fluorescent‐labeled CaS to the plasma membrane [CITATION, CITATION], we fused the yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) recombinantly to the C‐terminus of CaS and transiently expressed this construct in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves. Observations by confocal laser scanning microscopy clearly demonstrated that the CaS–YFP fusion protein localized in chloroplasts (Fig. 3A–C). In stark contrast, the cytosolic YFP control accumulated YFP fluorescence signal in the cell periphery and nuclei (supplementary Fig. S1). These data clearly demonstrate that CaS predominantly resides in chloroplasts. Coexpression of CaS–YFP and GWD1tp–green fluorescent protein (GFP), a chloroplast‐targeted protein used as a marker, showed perfect overlap of the YFP and GFP signals (Fig. 3D–F), and no signal was detected in the cell periphery. Coexpression of CAS–YFP and the cytosolic GFP further illustrated the exclusive localization of CAS–YFP in chloroplasts (supplementary Fig. S2).  [[FIGURE]] To address the question of whether one of the two light‐regulated protein kinases, STN7 or STN8, is required for the light‐dependent phosphorylation of CaS, we isolated thylakoids from the high‐light‐treated leaves of wild‐type plants and two mutant lines lacking STN7 or STN8 (stn7 and stn8, respectively). Immunoblot analysis of isolated thylakoids with phosphothreonine‐specific antibody revealed the absence of the 40 kDa CaS phosphorylation in the stn8 mutant (Fig. 4A). Analysis of the same fractions with CaS‐specific antibody revealed similar levels of CaS in all samples. The migration of CaS in SDS/PAGE of thylakoid proteins isolated from the stn8 mutant was slightly faster than those of the wild‐type and the stn7 mutant (Fig. 4B), which is typically observed when protein phosphorylation is altered (see also Fig. 1A). These data suggest that CaS is almost fully phosphorylated under high‐light conditions, as the upper band corresponding to the phosphorylated form dominated under high‐light conditions in the wild‐type (Figs 1A and 4B) and the stn7 mutant (Fig. 4B).  [[FIGURE]] The involvement of STN8 in the phosphorylation of CaS was further investigated by isolation of phosphopeptides from the wild‐type and the stn7 and stn8 thylakoids, and analyzing them by LC‐MS/MS. The mapping of phosphopeptides isolated from stn8 thylakoids in comparison to the wild‐type and stn7 showed the specific absence of the CaS‐originated phosphopeptide SGtKFLPSSD with m/z 573.82+ from the thylakoids of only the stn8 mutant. These results revealed that CaS in stn8 is not phosphorylated at Thr380, and suggest either that CaS is a direct target of the STN8 protein kinase or STN8 is a crucial component of the protein phosphorylation cascade involved in CaS phosphorylation.  The mutant Arabidopsis lines with T‐DNA insertion in the intron region of the CaS gene were obtained from GABI‐Kat and SALK collections. Knockout plants were identified by immunoblot analysis of isolated thylakoids with CaS‐specific antibody, and the D1‐specific antibody was used as a control for equal protein loading (Fig. 5A). The specific absence of the 40 kDa phosphoprotein band in thylakoids isolated from knockout plants (Fig. 5B) provides definite evidence that this band represents CaS. To verify the lack of CaS transcripts in the mutant plants, RT‐PCR analysis of mRNA from the mutant and wild‐type plants was performed (Fig. 5C). The CaS knockout plants showed retarded growth even under normal unstressed conditions (Fig. 5D), indicating its important role in plant growth.  [[FIGURE]] To obtain further insights into the mechanisms responsible for the observed phenotype, we analyzed the photochemical efficiency of PSII by fluorescence measurements and the susceptibility of the CaS mutant to photoinhibition of PSII. However, no difference in the decrease of the variable fluorescence/maximal fluorescence (Fv/Fm) ratio during high light illumination (1500 μmol photon·m−2·s−1 for 3 h) or during subsequent recovery at low light (30 μmol photon·m−2·s−1 for another 3 h) was observed between the wild‐type and the CaS mutant at any time point (supplementary Fig. S3). The whole chain electron transfer activities were also unaffected in the CaS mutant as compared to the wild‐type (supplementary Table S3). As CaS is an intrinsic thylakoid protein, we then tested whether the absence of CaS exerts any effects on the composition of the thylakoid protein complexes. To this end, an immunoblot analysis was performed on the contents of representative proteins in different thylakoid protein complexes, including the PSI and PSII core complexes, ATP synthase, and the lumenal oxygen‐evolving complex. This analysis revealed no significant changes in PSII, PSI and ATP synthase in the CaS mutant as compared to the wild‐type (supplementary Fig. S4).  The network‐based tools targetp and chlorop (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk) strongly predict the CaS protein to be targeted to chloroplasts, with the transit peptide corresponding to residues 1–33 (Fig. 6A), which gives a molecular mass of 37.8 kDa for the mature protein. This calculated mass is in accordance with the MS identification of CaS in a gel region around 40 kDa, together with CYP38, FNR and several other known proteins (supplementary Table S2). The C‐terminus contains two motifs: a noncatalytic rhodanese homology domain (amino acids 231–352), with the putative active residue Cys309 substituted by Asp, and a motif that is involved in interaction with 14‐3‐3 proteins and proteins with the ‘forkhead‐associated’ (FHA) domain. These domains are found in a variety of signaling proteins, and can bind directly to the phosphothreonine residue [CITATION]. The identified phosphorylation site, Thr380, of CaS lies within this motif (Fig. 6A).  [[FIGURE]] CaS appears to be a plant‐specific protein. It has homologs in Oryza sativa (gi:41352315) and Medicago truncatula (gi:92878521), as well as in the green algae Chlamydomonas reinhardtii (gi:46093489) and Ostreococcus tauri (gi:116059237) (Fig. 6B). No proteins with significant sequence similarity to CaS were found in cyanobacteria. According to hydropathy analysis (tmhmm at http://www.cbs.dtu.dk and sosui at http://www.bp.nuap.nagoya‐u.ac.jp), CaS in higher plants has one transmembrane helix (amino acids 188–210 in Arabidopsis), whereas the green algae proteins do not contain any transmembrane region. Alignment of protein sequences with clustalw (Fig. 6B) showed that phosphorylated Thr380 is conserved in homologous proteins of green algae. 
!~MM~! Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia (Col‐0) was used for all other experiments except for the transient expression, which was carried out in tobacco. Plants were grown in a phytotron under the following conditions: 100 μmol photons·m−2·s−1 light intensity, 8 h photoperiod, 23 °C, and relative humidity 70%.  The T‐DNA insertion lines of the stn7 gene (At1g68830) (SALK 073254) and the stn8 gene (At5g01920) (SALK 060869 and SALK 064913) in the Columbia background were obtained from the Salk Institute [CITATION]. Plants homozygous for the T‐DNA insertion were identified on the basis of PCR analysis [CITATION, CITATION].  The T‐DNA insertion lines of the cas gene (At5g23060) (665G12 and SALK 070416) in the Columbia background were obtained from GABI‐Kat [CITATION] and Salk Institute collections [CITATION]. CaS knockout plants were identified using purified CaS‐specific antibody (see below).  Total RNA of frozen leaf tissues was extracted with TRIzol (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA). After RNase‐free DNase treatment, 1 μg of total RNA was used to synthesize cDNA using SuperScript III reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen) in a 40 μL reaction volume. Four microliters (1/10) of RT product was used for PCR amplification with CaS‐specific and 18S RNA control primers. The forward and reverse primers, respectively, for the 18S RNA were 5′‐CTGCCAGTAGTCATATGCTTGTC‐3′ and 5′‐GTGTAGCGCGCGTGCGGCCC‐3′. The forward and reverse primers, respectively, for CaS were 5′‐AAATGGCAACGAAGTCTTCAC‐3′ and 5′‐CAGTCGGAGCTAGGAAGGAA‐3′.  The plasma membrane fraction of Arabidopsis was isolated as previously described [CITATION]. Intact chloroplasts were isolated from mature Arabidopsis leaves using a two‐step Percoll gradient [CITATION]. The stroma fraction was obtained after chloroplast lysis in buffer and centrifugation at 15 000 g. Thylakoid membranes were isolated as described previously [CITATION], including protease inhibitor cocktail (Complete; Roche, Mannheim, Germany). Thylakoids were subfractionated into grana, margin and stroma lamellae by using the digitonin method as previously described [CITATION].  The proteins were separated by SDS/PAGE with 6 m urea and transferred to an Immobilon poly(vinylidene difluoride) membrane (Millipore, Bedford, MA, USA). The membranes were blocked with 5% (w/v) milk or BSA, and incubated with protein or phosphothreonine‐specific antibody (polyclonal; New England Biolabs, Beverly, MA, USA). The amount of chloroplasts loaded in gels was tested for each antibody to give a linear response, and was varied between 0.5 and 5 μg of chloroplasts, depending on the antibody. The MicroLink Protein Coupling kit (Pierce, Rockford, IL, USA) was used for purification of CaS‐specific antibody, raised against the full‐length protein, kindly provided by Z. M. Pei (Duke University, Durham, NC, USA).  Isolated thylakoids were resuspended in 25 mm NH4HCO3 and 10 mm NaF to a final concentration of 3 mg of chloroplasts·mL−1 and incubated with MS‐grade trypsin (Promega, Madison, WI, USA) (5 μg enzyme/mg chloroplasts) for 3 h at 22 °C. The digestion products were frozen, thawed, and centrifuged at 15 000 g. The supernatant was collected, and the membranes were resuspended in water and centrifuged again. The supernatants, both containing released thylakoid peptides, were pooled and centrifuged at 100 000 g for 20 min. The peptides were then lyophilized and methyl‐esterified with 2 m methanolic HCl [CITATION]. Phosphopeptides were enriched by IMAC as previously described [CITATION], with modifications. The sample was first loaded on the IMAC column in 0.3% acetic acid in water; unbound peptides were lyophilized again, and loaded on the IMAC column in H2O/acetonitrile (ACN)/MeOH (1 : 1 : 1). Phosphopeptides were eluted with 4 × 10 μL of 20 mm Na2HPO4 with 20% ACN, and desalted using POROS R3 (PerSeptive Biosystems, Framingham, MA, USA).  In‐gel trypsin digestion was performed as previously described [CITATION]. Tandem MS was performed on an API QSTAR (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA, USA) equipped with a nanoelectrospray source (MDS Protana, Odense, Denmark) and connected in‐line with the nano‐HPLC system (LC Packings, Amsterdam, the Netherlands). Eluted and dried peptide samples were dissolved in 9 μL of 2% formic acid, centrifuged for 10 min at 12 000 g, and transferred to an autosampler vial. Aliquots (8 μL) of samples were loaded onto a C18 PepMap, 5 μm, 1 mm × 300 μm internal diameter nano‐precolumn (LC Packing), desalted for 1.5 min, and subjected to reverse‐phase chromatography on a C18 PepMap, 3 μm, 15 cm × 75 μm internal diameter nanoscale LC column (LC Packing). A gradient of 5–50% ACN in 0.1% formic acid was applied for 50 min with the flow rate of 0.2 μL·min−1. The acquisition of MS/MS data was performed on‐line using the fully automated IDA feature of the analyst qs software (Applied Biosystems). The acquisition parameters were 1 s for TOF MS survey scans and 2–3 s for the product ion scans of two most intensive doubly or triply charged peptides. The major trypsin peptides were excluded from MS/MS acquisition. Analyses of MS/MS data were performed with the analyst qs software, and this was followed by protein identification by mascot with search parameters allowing for carbamidomethylation of Cys, one miscleavage of trypsin, oxidation of Met, and 200 p.p.m. mass accuracy. mascot search parameters in the case of phosphopeptide analysis allowed one miscleavage of trypsin, methylation of the C‐terminus, Asp and Glut, and phosphorylation of Ser and Thr.  PSII photochemical efficiency was determined as a ratio of Fv to Fm, measured from intact leaves with a Hansatech Plant Efficiency Analyser (Hansatech Instruments, King’s Lynn, UK) after a dark incubation for 30 min.  The C‐terminal YFP fusion of CaS was constructed by using a two‐step USER cloning technique [CITATION]. The CaS coding sequence (AY341888) was amplified by PCR using PfuTurbo CX Hotstart DNA polymerase (Strategene, La Jolla, CA, USA) and the uracil‐containing primers nt114 (forward: GGCTTAAUATGGCTATGGCGGAAATGGCAACGA) and nt115 (reverse: GGTTTAAUTAAGGATCCTTAATTAAGCCTCAGCGGGTCGGAGCTAGGAAGGAACTT), where the underlined sequence was included for regeneration of a USER cloning cassette. The PCR product was mixed with the PacI/Nt.BbvCI‐digested plasmid pCAMBIA330035Su and treated with USER enzyme mix (New England Biolabs) for 35 min at 37 °C and 25 min at 25 °C. The reaction mix was directly used to transform Escherichia coli DH10B chemically competent cells, the positive clone, pCAS, was obtained, and the correct insertion was verified by sequencing. A YFP fragment was amplified by PCR using the uracil‐containing primers nt59 (forward primer: GGCTTAAUCTGGGTAGCGGTGGAATGGTGAGCAAGGGCGAGGAG) and nt34 (reverse primer: GGTTTAAUTTACTTGTACAGCTCGTCCAT). The product was mixed with the PacI/Nt.BbvCI‐digested pCAS, treated with USER enzyme mix, and used to transform E. coli DH10B. The fusion construct, pCASYFP, was verified by sequencing and was subsequently introduced to Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58 pGV3850 for heterologous expression in tobacco. GWD1tp–GFP consisted of chloroplast transit peptide for glucan water dikinase 1 fused to GFP, and was used as a chloroplast marker.  Overnight cultures of A. tumefaciens bearing appropriate plasmid constructs were harvested, resuspended in a buffer (100 μm acetosyringon, 10 mm MgCl2, 10 mm Mes, pH 5.6), and were incubated at room temperature for 2 h. The attenuance of each Agrobacterium strain was adjusted to 0.05 at 600 nm before infiltration. N. benthamiana was grown in a greenhouse for 4 weeks at 28 °C under 16 h of daylight and at 22 °C under 8 h of darkness. The Agrobacterium cell suspensions were infiltrated into leaves, and the plants were placed in a greenhouse. Observations of sections of the infiltrated leaves were carried out by 48 h after infiltration using a confocal scanning laser microscope (TCS SP2; Leica Microsystems, Wetzlar, Germany). Sequential scanning of GFP and YFP were carried out, with excitation at 488 nm and 514 nm, respectively, and emission at 495–510 nm and 545–600 nm, respectively. Chloroplast autofluorescence was detected at 650–707 nm. The scan speed was 800 Hz, and a line average of 8 was used. 
