!~ABS~! Early seedling development in plants depends on the biogenesis of chloroplasts from proplastids, accompanied by the formation of thylakoid membranes. An Arabidopsis thaliana gene, AtTerC, whose gene product shares sequence similarity with bacterial tellurite resistance C (TerC), is shown to be involved in a critical step required for the normal organization of prothylakoids and transition into mature thylakoid stacks. The AtTerC gene encodes an integral membrane protein, which contains eight putative transmembrane helices, localized in the thylakoid of the chloroplast, as shown by localization of an AtTerC–GFP fusion product in protoplasts and by immunoblot analysis of subfractions of chloroplasts. T-DNA insertional mutation of AtTerC resulted in a pigment-deficient and seedling-lethal phenotype under normal light conditions. Transmission electron microscopic analysis revealed that mutant etioplasts had normal prolamellar bodies (PLBs), although the prothylakoids had ring-like shapes surrounding the PLBs. In addition, the ultrastructures of mutant chloroplasts lacked thylakoids, did not have grana stacks, and showed numerous globular structures of varying sizes. Also, the accumulation of thylakoid membrane proteins was severely defective in this mutant. These results suggest that the AtTerC protein plays a crucial role in prothylakoid membrane biogenesis and thylakoid formation in early chloroplast development.
!~RES~! A collection of Arabidopsis plants mutagenized with T-DNA (CITATION) was screened for plants with pigment-deficient and seedling-lethal phenotypes. The atterC-1 mutant (SALK_014736) was chosen for further characterization, as a second allele (atterC-2, GABI-Kat 844D10) of this mutation has been identified, which displayed identical phenotypes to atterC-1 in a different T-DNA mutant pool (CITATION). As shown in Figure 1(a), both types of homozygous mutant seedling displayed identical visible phenotypes, including pigment deficiency and seedling lethality. Heterozygous plants of both mutants appeared identical to the wild-type. The progeny of self-pollinated heterozygous plants segregated as the wild-type and mutant phenotypes at a ratio of approximately 3:1 on non-selective medium. The wild-type siblings selected from self-pollinated heterozygotes showed wild-type phenotypes in successive generations. These results demonstrate that these mutations are recessive and that the mutant phenotype co-segregates with the T-DNA insertion. [[FIGURE]] To further characterize the mutant phenotype, the atterC-1 mutation was examined in more detail. Dark-grown atterC-1 mutants were indistinguishable from etiolated wild-type seedlings. However, after exposure to normal light conditions (approximately 150 μmol photons m−2 sec−1), the etiolated atterC-1 mutants failed to accumulate chlorophylls in the cotyledons. Mutants died within two weeks in soil. Under dim light conditions (approximately 5 μmol photons m−2 sec−1), atterC-1 mutants showed pale-green cotyledons and leaves (data not shown). These results indicate that although AtTerC is required for chlorophyll accumulation during early seedling development under normal growth conditions, AtTerC does not appear to be directly involved in chlorophyll biosynthesis. As shown in Figure 1(b), Northern blot analysis indicated that the wild-type form of AtTerC mRNA was undetectable in both mutants when a probe corresponding to a fragment of 5′ region of AtTerC cDNA was used. However, multiple and aberrant transcripts were detected in atterC-2 when cDNA probes corresponding to another region of AtTerC mRNA were used (Figure S1). Similar results were shown previously in other studies (CITATION; CITATION). As the transformation vector, pAC106, used for atterC-2 has two CaMV 35S promoters within the T-DNA delivered by the vector, these abnormal transcripts are probably initiated within the T-DNA insert and are not functional, considering the identical phenotype of both mutants. PCR and sequence analysis revealed that the borders of the T-DNA were in the second intron of atterC-1 and in the third exon in atterC-2 (Figure 1c). For atterC-1, the inserted T-DNA was joined to the 67th nucleotide within the intron of the AtTerC gene. For atterC-2, the T-DNA was inserted between the 134th and 136th nucleotide of the third exon of AtTerC. The 135th guanosine nucleotide of the exon was deleted. These data indicate that the genomic DNA of AtTerC was rearranged in the mutant genome by T-DNA insertions. To verify that the pigment-deficient and seedling-lethal phenotypes were associated with the T-DNA insertion into the AtTerC gene, molecular complementation was performed. A 4.2 kb, full-length AtTerC genomic copy was introduced into the heterozygous background (atterC/AtTerC) by in planta transformation. Twenty-six independent T1 transgenic seeds were selected, using the presence of a strong GFP fluorescent signal as a selection marker (see Experimental procedures). Four complemented lines were identified that have a homozygous mutant allele (atterC/atterC) background. The phenotype of one representative among the selected T2 complementation lines, which is indistinguishable from the wild-type plant, is shown in Figure 1(e). Genotypic characterization of the complemented line was performed by genomic DNA blot analysis to confirm that the transformant contained a homozygous atterC-1 mutant allele and a wild-type AtTerC transgene (Figure 1d). Northern blot analysis of the complemented line showed a wild-type band of AtTerC mRNA (Figure 1e). These analyses show that the ectopic expression of AtTerC prevented the pigment-deficient seedling growth and restored the seedling growth to that of wild-type plants. Therefore, the mutant phenotypes were conferred by the T-DNA insertional mutation in the AtTerC gene. DNA sequencing of the isolated regions flanking the two T-DNA insertions and subsequent database searches revealed that these sequences were contained in the bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clone MXC 9 (GenBank accession number AB007727). The MIPS (Munich Information Center for Protein Sequences) code for the gene is At5g12130. Although the gene was already annotated as the integral membrane protein TerC (tellurite resistance C) in Arabidopsis, and recently named as pigment-defective 149 (PDE149) in the database of the ‘Arabidopsis SeedGenes Project’ (CITATION), there are to date no published reports concerning its functions in plants. The AtTerC gene encodes a polypeptide composed of 384 amino acids with an estimated molecular mass of 41.9 kDa. Analysis of the deduced amino acid sequence (CITATION) of AtTerC indicates that it encodes an integral membrane protein containing eight possible transmembrane helices (Figure 2a). The ChloroP program (CITATION) predicted localization of AtTerC to the chloroplast and that it contains a 48 amino acid cleavable transit peptide in the N-terminus (Figure 2a). A database search using the cDNA sequence of AtTerC revealed that the AtTerC gene is present as a singleton in the Arabidopsis genome. [[FIGURE]] A database search for AtTerC homologues in other species revealed that homologues to AtTerC are present in a variety of bacteria, archea, algae and other plant species. The common feature of these homologues was found to be a TerC domain. This conserved region comprises amino acids 145–356 for AtTerC (Figure 2a). However, there were no other sequence motives or domains other than the TerC domain that suggested the possible function of the AtTerC protein. TerC was first cloned along with other components as a tellurite resistance (Ter) determinant encoded by the bacterial IncHI2 plasmid pMER610 (Jobling and Ritchie, 1987, 1988). However, the mechanisms responsible for this resistance remain elusive. As shown in Figure 2(a), there are very few similarities in the N-terminal regions among the TerC homologues. The N-termini of TerC homologues in higher plants are longer than those of homologues in other taxa. These N-terminal extensions may provide additional functions for higher-plant homologues. For example, they may serve to guide TerC proteins to intracellular organelles. To investigate the relationship between TerC homologues in evolutionary history, a phylogenetic analysis was performed (Figure 2b). There is a close evolutionary relationship between AtTerC and homologues in the eukaryotic photosynthetic organisms. When comparing AtTerC with prokaryotic homologues, the TerC homologue of cyanobacteria, Gloeobacter violaceus PCC 7421, was found to have the highest similarity to AtTerC. Two TerC homologues are found in the strict anaerobic and methanogenic euryarchaeota archaea. In addition, there are TerC homologues in many other bacterial taxa, including proteobacteria, enterobacteria, eubacteria and high-GC Gram-positive bacteria. Previous studies on microbial molecular phylogeny have proposed that there have been extensive lateral gene transfers within bacteria and between bacteria and archaea in evolution (CITATION). Therefore, the phylogenetic and sequence similarity analysis of TerC suggests that the TerC is an ancient gene, and that eukaryotic TerC genes possibly originated from bacteria. To determine the spatial expression profiles of the AtTerC gene, RNA gel-blot analysis was carried out using total RNA extracted from various tissues. The AtTerC transcript was detected in all tissues analyzed from 6-week-old wild-type Arabidopsis plants (Figure 1f). To understand the nature of the pigment deficiency in mutant seedlings, the contents of several pigments were measured, including chlorophyll, carotenoid and anthocyanin. As shown in Figure 3(a), total chlorophyll content was the most severely reduced in atterC-1 compared to that of the wild-type, among all pigments analyzed. The total chlorophyll content of atterC-1 was approximately 10% of the wild-type level. In addition, it was shown that the carotenoid level of atterC-1 was also reduced to 34% of the wild-type level, whereas the atterC-1 anthocyanin content was similar to that of the wild-type. [[FIGURE]] As the reduction of chlorophyll has been shown to be generally accompanied by a reduction in carotenoid content, it was necessary to determine whether the pigment-deficient phenotype is caused by the disruption in the pathway of chlorophyll biosynthesis. Thus, this study analyzed the relative amounts of protochlorophyllide (Pchlide) in wild-type and atterC-1 seedlings. Pchlide accumulates in the dark and is immediately converted to chlorophyllide a (Chlide a), a precursor of chlorophyll a, when plants are exposed to light (CITATION). Fluorescence spectroscopic data showed an approximately 1.4-fold higher Pchlide content in atterC-1 than in the wild-type, on the basis of fresh weight (Figure 3b). However, Pchlide levels were similar in the wild-type and atterC-1 when compared on a seedling basis (Figure 3b). When the fresh weights of the wild-type and atterC-1 were compared, the mutants always showed a reduced weight (about 70% of that of the wild-type). Considering that loss of the photosynthetic activity in atterC-1 led to an overall reduction of fresh weight, atterC-1 had higher relative amounts of Pchlide than the wild-type. Thus, these results suggest that the capability for chlorophyll biosynthesis is intact in atterC-1 mutant plants, as in the wild-type. Plastid-emitted signals can effect the expression of nuclear-encoded photosynthesis proteins by means of a process known as retrograde signaling, depending on the functional state of the plastid (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, the expression levels of the nuclear-encoded chloroplast proteins chlorophyll a/b binding protein (CAB) and ribulose-1,5-bisphophate carboxylase/oxygenase small subunit (rbcS) were examined. As shown in Figure 3(c), transcript levels of CAB and rbcS in atterC-1 were reduced to 42% and 58% of wild-type levels, respectively, when normalized to 18S rRNA. However, the expression levels of the nuclear-encoded non-photosynthetic proteins, chalcone synthase (CHS) and dihydroflavonol reductase (DFR) were similar in atterC-1 and the wild-type. Taken together, these results strongly suggest that AtTerC is involved in chloroplast development rather than in the chlorophyll biosynthetic pathway. To determine the precise intracellular localization of AtTerC, transgenic plants were produced, expressing AtTerC–GFP fusion constructs under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. Confocal fluorescence microscopy of protoplasts isolated from 35S::AtTerC:GFP and 35S::GFP transgenic plants showed that the AtTerC–GFP fusion protein was localized to the chloroplast, as the green fluorescence of the AtTerC chimeric protein co-localized with the red autofluorescence of the chloroplast, while GFP fluorescence was detected only in the cytoplasm of protoplasts isolated from 35S::GFP transgenic plants (Figure 4a). This result indicates that AtTerC is translocated into the chloroplast. [[FIGURE]] To further investigate the sub-organellar localization of the AtTerC–GFP fusion protein, immunoblot analysis was performed using an anti-GFP antibody on chloroplast fractions isolated from AtTerC:GFP transgenic plants. The purity of each subfraction of chloroplast was assessed using antibodies against corresponding marker proteins including stromal rbcL (ribulose-1,5-bisphophate carboxylase/oxygenase large subunit), Tic 40 (translocon at the inner envelope membrane of chloroplasts), and the integral thylakoid membrane protein D1 (a core subunit of the PSII reaction center). As shown in Figure 4(b), AtTerC–GFP exhibited exactly the same fractionation pattern as D1. The molecular mass of the detected protein was approximately 8 kDa less than the predicted molecular mass of the fusion protein (approximately 69 kDa). This reduced size was expected as the N-terminal signal sequence of AtTerC is recognized by the stromal-processing peptidase and is removed after import into the chloroplast. Thus, these results indicate that AtTerC is targeted to the thylakoid membrane. To investigate whether AtTerC is involved in the initial process of chloroplast development, this study examined the ultrastructure of plastids from atterC-1 plants and compared it to that of wild-type plants using transmission electron microscopy (Figure 5). Etioplasts from 4-day-old dark-grown atterC-1 plants had crystalline prolamellar bodies (PLBs) and double membrane envelopes similar to those of the wild-type (Figure 5b,d). However, the prothylakoids of atterC-1 were seen in the form of concentric rings surrounding the PLBs, and were observed in 95% of the 62 etioplasts examined for atterC-1 (Figure 5b,d). In addition, the intermembrane space of the prothylakoid lamellae of atterC-1 was shown to be about nine times as large as that of the wild-type: 0.13 versus 0.015 μm, respectively (Figure 5c,d). [[FIGURE]] When the ultrastructures of chloroplasts from 24-day-old light-grown leaf sections of atterC-1 mutants were compared with those of wild-type plants grown on a sucrose-containing medium (Figure 5e,f), even more severely defective ultrastructures of chloroplasts were observed in atterC-1. As shown in Figure 5(f), the majority of the chloroplasts from atterC-1 did not have any lamellar structures, either stacked or unstacked thylakoids, but had many globular structures, which seemed to be formed from the fusion of internal membranes. These results suggest that AtTerC is involved in internal membrane formation or organization during chloroplast differentiation from etioplasts and/or proplastids. Taken together, these results show that AtTerC is involved in normal prothylakoid lamellar growth in etioplasts before exposure to light, and in thylakoid biogenesis, including the stacking of grana and the growth of stromal lamellae, after light illumination. When plants are exposed to light, photosynthetic proteins encoded by the nuclear and chloroplast genomes accumulate in the chloroplasts. To investigate how the defects in thylakoid membrane biogenesis caused by the loss of AtTerC activity affect the accumulation of those proteins and their transcripts in the chloroplasts of the atterC-1 mutant, Western and Northern blot analyses were performed. For protein gel blotting, we used antibodies against distinct subunits of the photosynthetic membrane complexes and stromal proteins (Figure 6a). Of the four major protein complexes on the thylakoid, the subunits of D1, PsaA (PSI) and Cyt f (cytochrome b6f) were undetectable in the mutant, and the amount of AtpB (ATPase) detected was significantly reduced. The detection of AtpB is possibly due to the presence of intact mitochondria in atterC-1 (Figure 5b), and the fact that the anti-AtpB antibody used in the immunoblot assay can detect the AtpB subunit of both photosynthetic and respiratory ATP synthases. The levels of rbcL and CAB were greatly reduced or disappeared in the atterC-1 mutant compared to the wild-type over the period of light treatment, while the level of POR was similar in the mutant and wild-type. These results indicate that there are severe defects in the accumulation of photosynthetic complexes and the Rubisco complex in atterC-1. However, the failure of accumulation and the significant loss of photosynthetic proteins in the mutant does not result from transcriptional differences, because similar transcripts levels of relevant genes were observed in wild-type and in atterC-1 (Figure 6b). [[FIGURE]] To address whether the lack of accumulation of photosynthetic proteins in atterC-1 resulted from defects in translation, polysome profiling analysis was performed using probes against psbA, psaA, petA, atpB and rbcL (CITATION). As shown in Figure 7, there was no significant difference in the distribution of ribosomes between the mutant and the wild-type. Therefore, these results suggest that the impaired protein accumulation observed in the thylakoid of atterC-1 mutants is caused by accelerated degradation of proteins rather than defects in protein synthesis. [[FIGURE]] Taken together, these results demonstrate that AtTerC mutation causes the disruption of thylakoid membrane formation and results in severe defects in the accumulation of photosynthetic proteins, along with chlorophylls on thylakoids. As a result of these defects, plastids could not be normally converted into chloroplasts in atterC-1. Ultimately, the blockade of chloroplast biogenesis caused atterC-1 mutants to die at the early seedling stage.
!~MM~! Seeds from wild-type Arabidopsis (Columbia) and atterC mutants were grown on half-strength MS medium (Duchefa, http://www.duchefa.com) supplemented with 1% w/v sucrose and 0.7% w/v phytoagar (Duchefa) in a growth room either in continuous light or in the dark at 22°C. Adult plants were grown in Sunshine-Mix 1 (SunGro, http://www.sungro.com) under a 16/8 h light/dark photoperiod at 22°C. All seeds were incubated at 4°C for 2 days to synchronize germination. Detailed information for all primer sequences and cDNA probe regions is given in Appendix S1. The AtTerC T-DNA insertion lines SALK_014736 (atterC-1) and GABI-Kat 844D10 (atterC-2) were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (Ohio State University) and the GABI-Kat mutant collection at the Max-Planck-Institute for Plant Breeding Research, respectively. To determine the predicted positions of T-DNA insertions for AtTerC knockout homozygous mutants, genomic DNA was isolated from 10-day-old wild-type and mutant seedlings as described by CITATION, and then the flanking regions of the T-DNA insertions were amplified by PCR. The mutant-specific PCR products were then sequenced to confirm the predicted T-DNA insertions. Total RNA was extracted from whole seedlings using an easy-BLUETM kit (iNtRON, http://www.intronbio.com) or was extracted from tissues of the whole plant grown in soil as described previously (CITATION). RNA gel-blot analyses were performed as described by CITATION. The hybridization signals were quantified using a phosphorimager (BAS-2500; Fujifilm, http://www.fujifilm.com). For the complementation test of AtTerC−/− plants, a 4.2 kb genomic DNA fragment of the AtTerC gene, containing approximately 0.95 kb of a putative promoter sequence and approximately 0.75 kb of a 3′ sequence encompassing the 3′ UTR, was amplified by PCR using specific primers and cloned into a pFP101 binary vector (CITATION). The complementation vector was introduced into the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA4404. Plants heterozygous for the T-DNA disruption in AtTerC were transformed by the in planta method (CITATION). Transformants were selected using a seed-expressed fluorescent marker (CITATION), then genotyped and analyzed for the introduced trans-AtTerC wild-type copy and AtTerC mRNA expression as described above. For the DNA gel blot, genomic DNA was isolated as described above. Ten micrograms of DNA were digested with BamHI overnight and run on a 1% agarose gel. DNA gel-blot analysis was performed out according to a standard method (CITATION). A 1.1 kb fragment of AtTerC genomic DNA sequence was amplified from extracted wild-type genomic DNA and used as hybridization probe. To measure the content of pigments, including chlorophyll, carotenoid and anthocyanin, seedlings were grown on MS agar medium for 4 days under continuous light. Further details are given in Appendix S1. To construct the 35S::AtTerC:GFP gene, the AtTerC coding region was cloned into a pBI121 binary vector in which GUS was replaced by the GFP gene (U70495). For protoplast preparation, 35S::AtTerC:GFP and 35S::GFP transgenic Arabidopsis plants were grown on MS medium for 2 weeks. The protoplasts were harvested as described previously (CITATION). Expression of the fusion construct was monitored by confocal laser scanning microscopy, using an LSM Meta 510 (Carl Zeiss, http://www.zeiss.com). Leaves of 2-week-old 35S::AtTerC:GFP transgenic plants were used for sample preparation. Sample preparation was performed as described previously (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) and detailed in Appendix S1. For etioplast ultrastructural analysis, etiolated wild-type and atterC-1 seedlings were grown on MS agar plates in the dark for 4 days. Under dim green light, wild-type cotyledons were directly detached from seedlings using sharp forceps, and then immediately soaked in a brown-colored 1.5 ml tube containing fixation solution. For atterC-1, a batch of seeds from a heterozygous plant was sown on MS agar medium. One of the two cotyledons was carefully detached and numbered for a batch of seedlings in which wild-type, and heterozygous and homozygous atterC-1 seedlings were included. Plates containing the seedlings with one remaining cotyledon were transferred to light for 20 h. Next, atterC-1 homozygous background seedlings that did not show a greening cotyledon were identified, and the detached cotyledons in the corresponding tubes were used for transmission electron microscopic analysis. For analysis of chloroplast ultrastructure, wild-type and atterC-1 seedlings were grown on MS agar medium under continuous light for 24 days. Small pieces of cut rosette leaves from the wild-type and the atterC-1 mutant were collected in fixation solution. Transmission electron micrographs were obtained as described by CITATION. Total proteins were extracted as described previously (CITATION), and immunoblot assay was performed by a standard method (CITATION). Polysome analysis was performed as described by CITATION. Detailed information is given in Appendix S1.
