!~ABS~! An estimated one-third of all proteins in higher eukaryotes are regulated by phosphorylation by protein kinases (PKs). Although plant genomes encode more than 1000 PKs, the substrates of only a small fraction of these kinases are known. By mass spectrometry of peptides from cytoplasmic- and nuclear-enriched fractions, we determined 303 in vivo phosphorylation sites in Arabidopsis proteins. Among 21 different PKs, 12 were phosphorylated in their activation loops, suggesting that they were in their active state. Immunoblotting and mutational analysis confirmed a tyrosine phosphorylation site in the activation loop of a GSK3/shaggy-like kinase. Analysis of phosphorylation motifs in the substrates suggested links between several of these PKs and many target sites. To perform quantitative phosphorylation analysis, peptide arrays were generated with peptides corresponding to in vivo phosphorylation sites. These peptide chips were used for kinome profiling of subcellular fractions as well as H2O2-treated Arabidopsis cells. Different peptide phosphorylation profiles indicated the presence of overlapping but distinct PK activities in cytosolic and nuclear compartments. Among different H2O2-induced PK targets, a peptide of the serine/arginine-rich (SR) splicing factor SCL30 was most strongly affected. SRPK4 (SR protein-specific kinase 4) and MAPKs (mitogen-activated PKs) were found to phosphorylate this peptide, as well as full-length SCL30. However, whereas SRPK4 was constitutively active, MAPKs were activated by H2O2. These results suggest that SCL30 is targeted by different PKs. Together, our data demonstrate that a combination of mass spectrometry with peptide chip phosphorylation profiling has a great potential to unravel phosphoproteome dynamics and to identify PK substrates.
!~RES~! On the basis of the technique of IMAC purification of phosphopeptides, a mass spectrometry approach was taken to identify in vivo phosphorylation sites of Arabidopsis proteins.CITATION Phosphopeptide spectra were subjected to stringent manual verification of phosphopeptides to obtain a reliable data set. This is reflected in (1) the high percentage of corresponding MS3 spectra of each peptide that confirm the sequence, (2) the high percentage of unambiguously identified sites (86%), (3) the large number of redundant phosphopeptides with miscleavages or different phosphorylation states, (4) the large number of conserved sites identified in different homologous proteins, and (5) the confirmation of many phosphopeptides (57% of the phosphopeptides identified in cytosolic extracts and 49% of all phosphopeptides) by one FTICR-MS experiment with phosphopeptides of cytosolic proteins. This analysis led to the disclosure of 303 phosphorylation sites on 205 proteins (CITATION). The ratio between phosphorylated residues was 91.8%/7.5%/0.7% for serine/threonine/tyrosine (Figure CITATIONA), indicating that, as in animals and yeast,CITATION the phosphorylation on tyrosine in Arabidopsis is far less abundant than on serine and threonine. We compared our data set with published Arabidopsis phosphorylation site studies and found 10 sites previously described by Nühse et al.,CITATION 2 by Laugesen et al.,CITATION 2 by Wolschin and WeckwerthCITATION and 49 by Benschop et al.CITATION (although in many cases the actual position of the phosphorylation site was not defined in the latter study). We also confirmed sites in HY5 (40) and fructose-6-phosphate 2-kinase/fructose-2,6-bisphosphatase.CITATION More than 80% of our data set includes novel phosphorylation sites, including two phosphotyrosine sites. Phosphoproteins were assigned to eight different classes, based on their domain composition or functional description in the literature (Figure CITATIONB). Similar to Moser and White,CITATION we observed a high percentage of singly phosphorylated peptides (Figure CITATIONC). Evolutionarily conserved phosphorylation was identified in putatively highly abundant proteins, such as metabolic enzymes (CITATION) and ribosomal proteins (CITATION). However, also phosphorylation sites of proteins of expected low abundance were found, such as a nucleotide binding domain-leucine-rich-repeat-type disease resistance protein and various signaling proteins (CITATION). One way to screen the obtained data set is to select for phosphorylation sites within PKs and protein phosphatases actively involved in reversible phosphorylation modification of proteins. Phosphorylation sites of 21 PKs and two protein phosphatases were identified (Table CITATION), including several RAF-like kinases, AGC kinases, cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs), SNF1-related kinase 2 (SnRK2) isoforms and calcium-dependent PKs (CDPKs). More than half (14 out of 26) of the phosphorylation sites of PKs are located within activation loops. In general, phosphorylation of the PK activation loop correlates with an active state,CITATION suggesting that the PKs that we found to be phosphorylated in their activation loops were active. Consequently, these PKs potentially phosphorylated a number of the PK substrate sites described here. In line with this hypothesis, we identified a CDK site in the C-terminal region of retinoblastoma-related protein 1 (RBR1), which is a known target of a PSTAIRE CDKA/cyclin D complex in vitro;CITATION however, the actual site(s) had not been identified. In agreement with our hypothesis, we found T161 as a phosphorylation site in the activation loop of the Arabidopsis PSTAIRE CDKA, CDC2A/CDKA;1 (Figure CITATIONA), which has recently been identified as important for activation.CITATION Strikingly, we also found the upstream CDK-activating PK CDKF;1 that phosphorylates CDKA;1 in Arabidopsis.CITATION Although mutational analysis has indicated that T290 is essential for CDKF;1 activity, we determined two other sites: a serine in the activation loop and a second site that is located C-terminally of the kinase domain. Indeed, a T290A mutant CDKF;1 has still some activity toward kinase-dead CDKA;1,CITATION suggesting that another residue in the activation loop might be functional. Interestingly, the second site matches with a CDK motif, suggesting feedback regulation of CDKF;1 by a CDK, perhaps CDKA;1 itself or CDKC;1/2 (Figure CITATIONA). Since we found CDKF;1 to be active (according to its phosphoprofile), we speculate that in addition to CDKA;1, CDKC;1/2 might also be a target of CDKF;1. Phosphotyrosine sites were identified in a glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3)/shaggy-like kinase (GSK) and in an unknown PK (Table CITATION). Both sites are located in the activation loop at a position analogous to the tyrosine in MAPK activation loops (Figure CITATION). The same tyrosine residue is phosphorylated in animal GSK3.CITATION Alignment of the activation loops of PKs belonging to the subgroup 4.5 (PlantP database) shows that more members of this group contain a tyrosine residue at the analogous position and therefore might become phosphorylated on this site as well (Figure CITATION). All 10 of the Arabidopsis GSK3/shaggy-like PKsCITATION contain a tyrosine at the corresponding position (data not shown). This suggests that phosphorylation on tyrosine residues in PK activation loops could be a more general phenomenon than previously thought. It has been suggested that the peanut (non-MAPK) serine/threonine/tyrosine (STY) kinase is phosphorylated on a tyrosine residue in its activation loop.CITATION This residue was claimed to be analogous to a tyrosine phosphorylation site in human dual-specificity tyrosine-(Y)-phosphorylation regulated kinase 2 (DYRK2). However, this DYRK2 residue has not been described as a phosphorylation site. Instead, mutational analysis and in vivo phosphosite mapping have shown that the previous tyrosine is the correct phosphorylation site.CITATION This residue is located at the same position as the two tyrosine phosphorylation sites identified in our study and the tyrosine in the activation loop of MAPKs (Figure CITATION). This suggests that the peanut STY kinase might rather be phosphorylated on a threonine residue (Figure CITATION). To verify the tyrosine phosphorylation of one of the targets that we identified, the GSK3/Shaggy-like kinase ASKα was selected. The tyrosine residue that was determined in this protein, Y229, is located in the activation loop and is analogous to the phosphotyrosine in human GSK3s (Tyr279 in GSKα and Y216 in GSK3β) that is an autophosphorylation site required for activity.CITATION Full-length ASKα was produced in E. coli and purified as a glutathione S-transferase (GST) fusion protein. In addition, two mutants were generated and also purified as GST fusion proteins, GST-ASKα Y229A and GST-ASKα S228A. First, it was tested whether the GST fusion proteins were phosphorylated on tyrosine by immunoblotting with a specific anti-phosphotyrosine antibody. Indeed, ASKα was found to be phosphorylated on tyrosine (Figure CITATIONA, left lane). Mutation of tyrosine 229 to alanine resulted in an almost complete loss of the tyrosine phosphorylation signal. In contrast, the ASKα S228A mutant displayed normal tyrosine phosphorylation (Figure CITATIONA). This indicates that Y229 in Arabidopsis ASKα is autophosphorylated and corresponds to the in vivo tyrosine phosphorylation site identified by mass spectrometry. Because Y229 lies within the activation loop of the GSKs, we then asked whether phosphorylation of tyrosine 229 is required for protein kinase activity toward substrates. For this purpose, we tested the different ASKα variants for their ability to phosphorylate the artificial substrate myelin basic protein (MBP). Although both the wild-type protein and the S228A mutant phosphorylated MBP, ASKα Y229A showed a clearly diminished activity (Figure CITATIONB). Concluding, these data suggest that tyrosine 229 in ASKα is phosphorylated and that this event is required for its transphosphorylation activity. The substrate specificity of many PKs is partly based on the stereochemistry of the amino acids adjoining the phosphorylation site.CITATION Therefore, phosphorylation sites can be grouped into distinct kinase consensus motifs.CITATION We identified 100 sites that match a casein kinase 2 (CK2) motif, 90 for proline-directed kinases (including MAPKs and CDKs) and 78 basophilic PK motifs (with an affinity for basic amino acids, including PKAs, CDPKs and SnRKs) (Figure CITATIOND). Within the basophilic data set, a novel “dipolar” motifCITATION R/K-X2-pS/pT-X2-D/E/pS/pT was observed 33 times (CITATION). An example of this well-conserved motif is shown in Figure CITATION for AGD6 and -7. In addition, we observed 21 times the motif R/K-X2-pS/pT-P, which combines basophilic with proline-directed kinase motifs. In contrast, the double motif pS/pT-P-X-D/E (combining proline-directed with CK2 motifs) was observed only three times among 100 CK2 sites. Although the data set does not allow comprehensive analysis of phosphosites, there seems to be a bias to some of the functional classes for certain motifs. For instance, 50% and 72% of the sites of proteins involved in RNA metabolism and protein folding and translation are part of proline-directed and CK2 motifs, respectively. It has been proposed that CK2 sites account for 10−20% of eukaryotic phosphoproteomes.CITATION Alignment of all 100 predicted CK2 sites shows a bias toward acidic residues at the +1 and +2 positions (CITATION). Since CK2 favors the phosphorylation of such motifs,CITATION these sites are good candidates for true CK2 targets. Several of the potential CK2 targets were known CK2 substrates in animal and yeast systems, like HSP90 isoforms, ribosomal proteins and high mobility group B (HMGB) proteins. Plant HMGB proteins are also CK2 targets,CITATION but to our knowledge, no sites have been described. In addition to known CK2 targets, we found novel putative CK2 sites in for instance the chromatin remodelling factor BRM and SUMO activating enzyme 2 (CITATION). Phosphorylation often occurs in an ordered fashion, by one or multiple kinases. Twenty-three out of 48 doubly- and triply phosphorylated peptides were found in a less phosphorylated form (48%), suggesting ordered phosphorylation (or dephosphorylation) of the respective proteins. Doubly- and triply phosphorylated peptides were found with a spacing of 0−7 amino acids between the phosphosites. The common double phosphorylation motifs pS-X-pS-P and pS/pT-P-X2-pS-P motifs were both found six times (CITATION), implying proline-directed kinases in ordered phosphorylation. GSK3-like kinases often require prephosphorylation (or priming) of a site at the +4 position. Among 10 potential GSK3 sites (CITATION), we observed for five sites a phosphopeptide with only the priming site phosphorylated, but with the GSK3 site unphosphorylated (CITATION). As described above, a tyrosine phosphorylation site in the activation loop of GSK3-like kinase isoforms was determined, suggesting that they were in their active states. With this information, a putative network model centering Arabidopsis GSK3-like kinases was constructed (Figure CITATIONB). Concluding, in our phosphoproteomic screen, we found several phosphosites in activation loops of PKs that might be linked to downstream targets directly, either by analysis of phosphomotifs in substrates or by comparing the data with protein chip experiments such as those performed for MAPKs and CK2.CITATION Plants contain RAB, RHO, ARF, and RAN GTPases, but no RAS GTPases.CITATION We identified 19 sites in 12 proteins that are predicted to regulate RAB, ARF and RAN GTPases, including five in ARF-GTPase activating proteins (ARF-GAPs) (Figure CITATION). ARF-GAP DOMAIN (AGD) 5, 6, 7 and a previously undescribed AGD (At4g13350) are phosphorylated on serine residues in a similar region C-terminally of the ARF-GAP domain. The site in AGD6 and 7 has a well-conserved dipolar kinase motif in related AGDs of other plant species (Figure CITATION). SCARFACE (SCF or AGD3/VAN3) is involved in trafficking of the auxin efflux facilitator PIN-FORMED1 (PIN1) and leaf vein pattern formation.CITATION Not only ARF-GAPs, but also a member of the ARF guanine nucleotide exchange (GEF) protein family was found to be phosphorylated (CITATION). We found two proteins, ARGONAUTE1 (AGO1) and SERRATE (SE), which function in miRNA-mediated silencing.CITATION The AGO1 site located right after the PIWI domain, which is an RNase H-like domain that likely mediates the RNA cleavage activity of AGO1 (Figure CITATIONA). The site is conserved in the closely related AGO5 (At2g27880) and orthologues in other plants but not in mammalian Argonaute proteins (data not shown). The MS2 and MS3 fragmentation patterns of the AGO1 peptide are shown in CITATION. SE is involved in shoot meristem function and leaf axial patterning by regulating miRNA-mediated downregulation of genes involved in meristem activity and adaxial leaf fate.CITATION SE is phosphorylated at four sites in the N-terminal region of the protein. Phosphorylation of AGO1 and SE suggests that phosphorylation regulates RNA-based silencing in plants. Several of the identified phosphoproteins are involved in plant development. BRAHMA (BRM) and SPLAYED (SYD) are SWI/SNF-like chromatin-remodelling factors that control developmental programs in Arabidopsis.CITATION Both proteins have partially redundant functionsCITATION and were found to be phosphorylated on single sites. The region surrounding the phosphosites suggests that the identified sites might be targeted by different kinases. BRM is an in vitro target of MAP kinase 6 (MPK6).CITATION However, our identified phosphosite does not match with a typical MAPK consensus site, but with a CK2 site (CITATION). Although the potential MAPK site has not been determined, this could suggest that BRM is targeted by different PKs on distinct sites. VERNALISATION INDEPENDENCE 4 (VIP4) is involved in the regulation of flowering time CITATION and was found to be phosphorylated on seven sites (Figure CITATIONB). Five sites match with a CK2 motif, one with a proline-directed kinase motif and one that shares both these motifs. VIP4 likely acts in a transcriptional regulator complex related to budding yeast Paf1c.CITATION WUSCHEL-INTERACTING PROTEIN 1 (WSIP1)/TOPLESS (TPL) and four TOPLESS-RELATED (TPR) proteins are functionally redundant putative transcriptional corepressors that regulate apical embryonic fate.CITATION A conserved phosphorylation site was determined in WSIP1/TPL and TPR1 (Figure CITATIONC and D). The site is conserved in TPR2−4, as well as in proteins from other species that are similar to TPL (Figure CITATIOND). The sites identified in TPL and TPR1 both match a proline-directed/basophilic kinase double phosphorylation motif. Although this motif is present in TPL, TPR1 and -2, it is not found in TPR3 and -4 (Figure CITATIOND). Alternative approaches to phosphoproteomics include peptide chips to identify kinase substrates as well as to quantitatively determine changes in the activities of a mixture of PKs under different experimental conditions.CITATION So far, however, no chips were available with peptides corresponding to in vivo phosphorylation sites of plant substrates. Therefore, we developed a trial chip with a set of 47 peptide sequences which were selected out of different functional groups of phosphoproteins from our data sets of this and a previous study.CITATION Peptides of 11 amino acid length were synthesized and spotted in triplicate sets on glass slides. We applied PK mixtures consisting of cytoplasmic and nuclear fractions onto the peptide slides and determined which peptides are phosphorylated. Seventeen peptides were phosphorylated by the cytosolic extract, and 20 by the nuclear extract (Figure CITATION). In total, 22 different peptides were phosphorylated on the chip. In general, spot intensities of chips phosphorylated by PKs of the nuclear extracts were higher than in PK mixtures of the cytosolic extracts, which have to be diluted to reduce background noise on the chips.CITATION Visual inspection and quantitative analysis (Figure CITATION and CITATION) of the phosphoprofiles revealed a large overlap of peptides that can be phosphorylated by PKs of both cellular fractions. However, although it is difficult to quantitatively compare the peptide phosphorylation values between the cytosolic and nuclear extracts, several clear differences between kinome activities in these extracts could be seen. Overall, we observed selective phosphorylation of five peptides by PKs in the nuclear extract, and two peptides by cytosolic PKs (Figure CITATION). Three of the peptides phosphorylated by only the nuclear extract are derived from the activation loops of the RAF-like kinase RAF36 and SnRK2 isoforms. This observation points to a possible role of RAF36 and SnRK2s in the nucleus. In agreement with this hypothesis, it was recently reported that two (other) SnRK2 isoforms directly phosphorylate transcription factors.CITATION In addition, a number of peptides corresponding to five proteins involved in mRNA splicing (SCL30, SCL30a, SRp34a, SR45 and CypRS64) all show a relative higher phosphorylation by PKs in the nuclear fraction. In contrast, peptides corresponding to an unknown protein (At5g09850) and to the activation loop of the AGC kinase NDR-8 were phosphorylated by a PK present or active only in the cytosolic extract. Overall, these results suggest that the PKs that target the activation loops of the respective PKs may be either localized or active in particular subcellular compartments. In summary, these data indicate that the peptide chip approach provides a quantitative source for the analysis of PK activities in different subcellular fractions of plant extracts. Another application of phosphopeptide profiling on chips is the analysis of complex PK mixtures in response to changing conditions.CITATION To test this idea for plants, Arabidopsis cells were treated by oxidative stress for 5 min with 4 mM H2O2 that induces activities of the MAPKs MPK3, -4 and -6 (Figure CITATIONA and CITATION).CITATION Separate peptide chips were incubated with cytosolic extracts of control and oxidative stress treated cells. In two independent experiments, we observed an increased phosphorylation of a peptide derived from a putative chromatin remodelling protein (At5g07350) and a peptide from the activation loop of the PK At5g35980 (Figure CITATIONB). Interestingly, the PK is phosphorylated in vivo on the tyrosine residue, suggesting that a tyrosine-directed kinase is activated by oxidative stress. Phosphorylation of a peptide derived from the mRNA splicing factor SCL30 increased most strongly in all experiments (Figure CITATIONB), and was therefore selected for further analysis. Our data suggested that a PK targeting SCL30 is rapidly activated by H2O2. Inspection of the peptide sequence revealed putative phosphorylation motifs for SR-specific PKs and MAPKs. SRPK4 is one of four SRPKs in Arabidopsis and might be a plausible candidate because it can phosphorylate another SR protein.CITATION However, it was not clear whether SRPK4 is activated by H2O2. On the other hand, MAPKs are activated by H2O2 (Figure CITATIONA), but it was unclear whether they can target SCL30. To test whether any of these PKs could be responsible for the oxidative stress-induced phosphorylation of SCL30, SRPK4 was purified as a glutathione S-transferase (GST) fusion from E. coli and tested for phosphorylation activity toward purified GST (control) and GST-SCL30. As shown in Figure CITATIONC, GST-SRPK4 phosphorylated SCL30, but not GST. In addition to full-length GST-SCL30, several truncated products were phosphorylated by SRPK4, suggesting that N-terminal sites are also targeted by SRPK4. These kinase assays suggested that SRPK4 might be the kinase mediating oxidative stress-induced phosphorylation of SCL30. However, by expression of SRPK4 in Arabidopsis protoplasts, we observed no activation of SRPK4 by H2O2 (Figure CITATIOND). This might be explained by the fact that SRPK4 contains an aspartic acid at the position analogous to the phosphotyrosine in the activation loop of MAPKs and the two PKs that we found to be phosphorylated (Figure CITATION). Since mutation of phosphosites to acidic residues often mimics the phosphorylated state, this might render SRPK4 constitutively active. So we wondered whether H2O2-inducible MAPKs can act on SCL30. For this purpose, MPK3, MPK4 and MPK6 were immunoprecipitated from Arabidopsis cells with specific antibodies. By a radioactive kinase assay, it was shown that all three MAPKs can phosphorylate GST-SCL30, but not GST (Figure CITATIONE). A slight autophosphorylation activity of MPK4 and -6 can also be seen (Figure CITATIONE). Since both SRPK4 and stress-responsive MAPKs phosphorylate full-length SCL30, we addressed the question whether the SCL30 peptide was phosphorylated on the peptide array by these kinases. To use kinases immunoprecipitated from plant extracts is not possible, since they are immobilized on beads that cannot be applied on peptide chips. Therefore, recombinant GST fusion proteins of SRPK4 and MPK3 were separately incubated on the chips. Indeed, the peptide was phosphorylated by both kinases (Figure CITATIONF). These data show that both SRPK4 and MAPKs can phosphorylate SCL30. However, since only MAPKs are activated by H2O2, we conclude that the stress-responsive PK activity observed in the peptide chip experiments is derived from MAPKs. These data suggest that SRPK4 and MAPKs can act together to mediate both constitutive and oxidative stress-induced phosphorylation of SCL30. It remains to be determined whether SRPK4 and MAPKs phosphorylate overlapping or different residues in the splicing factor (Figure CITATIONG).
!~MM~! Nuclear and cytosolic phosphoproteomes from Arabidopsis root cell culture were screened. Protein extractions, peptide esterification and mass spectrometry were performed as decribed previously.CITATION Phosphopeptides from cytosolic and nuclear samples were, respectively, isolated with 5 µL of IMAC material (Phos-Select, Sigma) or POROS MC material (ABI), which was charged with FeCl3. The LTQ linear ion trap mass spectrometer (ThermoElectron; San Jose, CA) was operated in the data-dependent mode: 1 full scan (m/z 450−1600) was followed by MS/MS (MS2) scans of the four most abundant ions. These ions were excluded from further selection for 30 s. For each MS2 spectrum, the neutral loss algorithm in the Xcalibur 1.4 software was enabled. In this mode, MS/MS/MS (MS3) experiments are automatically triggered, if a neutral loss of phosphoric acid (98, 49, 32.7 Da for singly-, doubly-, or triply charged precursor ions, respectively) is detected among the most intense 8 fragment ions in the preceding MS2 scan. Searches against the nonredundant Arabidopsis thaliana protein database from NCBI (for the latest search the version of the eighth of September 2007) were done with tryptic specificity allowing 2 missed cleavages. Peptide tolerance was set to 1.5 Da and fragment tolerance to 1.0 Da. The obtained result was filtered using XCorr cutoff scores of 1.5, 2.0, and 2.5 for singly-, doubly-, and triply charged peptides, respectively. In total, phosphopeptide spectra of two nuclear extracts and four cytosolic extracts were subjected to careful manual inspection using Bioworks Browser 3.1 SR1 (Thermo Electron) and later versions 3.2 and 3.3. For each peptide, the MS/MS (MS2) and, when available, MS/MS/MS (MS3) spectra were thoroughly inspected. An IMAC-purified phosphopeptide fraction of cytosolic proteins was analyzed by LTQ-MS coupled with Fourier Transform Ion Cyclotron Resonance-MS (FTICR-MS). SEQUEST-Bioworks dta generation parameters for the LTQ-FT combination were the following: MW range, 600−4500 Da; precursor ion tolerance, 50 ppm; group scan, 1; minimum group count, 1; minimum ion count, 5. Subsequently, results were filtered with mass deviations of precursor ions of up to 5.0 ppm; XCorr scores of 1.5, 2.0, and 2.5 for singly-, doubly-, and triply charged peptides, respectively; and peptide probability ≤0.5. Static modifications for the database search: carbamidomethylation of Cys (+57.02146 Da). Variable modifications: oxidation of Met (+15.99492 Da); phosphorylation of Ser/Thr/Tyr (+79.96633 Da); loss of water from Ser/Thr (−18.00000 Da; to interpret the MS3 spectra); and methylation on C-termini of peptides and on Asp and Glu (+14.01570 Da). We estimated the false-positive rates, with the use of a decoy database, to be 2.2% for the LTQ-FT-ICR experiment. Bioinformatic analysis on the protein sequences was performed as decribed previously CITATION and peptide sequences were aligned using BCM Search Launcher. Five-day-old Arabidopsis root cell cultures were treated for 5 min with water (control) or 4 mM H2O2. Harvested material was filtered, frozen in liquid nitrogen and ground with mortar and pestle. From the resulting cell material, proteins were isolated as described below. Nuclear extracts from cell material were prepared as described.CITATION Soluble (cytosolic) extracts were prepared by adding HEPES kinase buffer (50 mM HEPES pH 7.5, 10 mM MgCl2, 10 mM MnCl2, 5 mM EDTA, 1 mM EGTA, 1 mM NaF, 1 mM Na3VO4, 15 mM β-glycerophosphate, 15 mM 4-nitrophenylphosphate, 0.5 mM PMSF, 5 µg/mL leupeptin, and 10 µg/mL aprotinin) to cell material and centrifuging for 30 min at 20 000g. Extracts were filtered through 0.22 µm GV Durapore spin filters (Millipore) to remove particle contaminants. A 6× reaction mixture (50% glycerol, 300 µM ATP, 60 mM MgCl2, 0.05% Brij-35, 0.25 mg/mL bovine serum albumin and 25 µCi [γ-33]ATP) was freshly prepared before each chip assay and filtered through 0.22 µm syringe filters (VBC-Genomics Bioscience Research, Vienna, Austria). Before the assay, cytosolic extracts were diluted four times in HEPES kinase buffer to reduce background noise on the chip.CITATION After adding 10 µL of the reaction mixture to 50 µlL of nuclear (100 µg of protein) or (diluted) cytosolic extract (25 µg of protein), the final mix was applied onto the slides (manufactured by Pepscan Presto, Lelystad, The Netherlands) as described in the PepChip kinase manual (Pepscan Presto, Lelystad, The Netherlands). Protein array slides were incubated for 2−3 h at 30 °C. Afterward, the slides were shortly washed in PBS containing 1% Triton X-100, then twice for 15 min in 2 M NaCl containing 1% Triton X-100 and twice for 15 min in water. The slides were then shortly washed twice with water and dried. Subsequently, the slides were exposed to a phosphorimager screen for 5 days and scanned with a Storm scanner. Spots were quantified using Imagequant and spots with an average of more than 3500 arbitrary units were considered positive as only these were found to be consistently phosphorylated in three independent biological replicate experiments. Each chip contained three replicate sets of the peptides, and spot intensities were normalized by taking the average of the spot intensities from one slide. To test whether the SCL30 peptide is phosphorylated by SRPK4 and MPK3, 5 µg of purified glutathione S-transferase (GST)-SRPK4 or GST-MPK3 (see below for purification) was incubated for 2 h at 30 °C on the chip. Subsequent steps were performed as described for cell extracts. This experiment was repeated once. Full-length ASKα (At5g26751) was cloned into pGEX5x3. For mutagenesis, PCR was performed on this plasmid with Pfu Ultra. ASKα Y229A was produced with primers ASKα Y229A-F (accaaacatttccgccatctgctcgaggta) and Y229A-R (tacctcgagcagatggcggaaatgtttggt). ASKα S228A was generated with primers ASKalpha S228A-F (agaaccaaacattgcctacatctgctcgag) and S228-R (ctcgagcagatgtaggcaatgtttggttct). PCR mixtures were digested for 2 h with DpnI and transformed into Escherichia coli. Different clones were sequenced and one for each mutation was used for protein purification (see below). GST, GST-SCL30, GST-MPK3 and GST-SRPK4 were expressed from pGEX4-T1, while GST-ASKα, ASKα Y229A and ASKα S228A were expressed from pGEX5x3 and purified from E. coli BL21. GST and GST-SCL30 were tested as substrates for GST-SRPK4, and MBP was tested as substrate for GST-ASKα, GST-ASKα Y229A and GST-ASKα S228A. For this purpose, proteins were assayed in a total volume of 20 µL kinase buffer (20 mM HEPES, pH 7.5, 15 mM MgCl2, 5 mM EGTA, and 1 mM DTT). The reaction was started with 2 µCi [γ-32]ATP and incubated at room temperature for 30 min. The reaction was stopped by the addition of 8 µL of 4× SDS loading buffer. Proteins were resolved by 15% SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The gel was dried and exposed overnight to a phosphorimager screen. To determine whether SRPK4 is activated by H2O2, 10 µg of pDEDH plasmid containing SRPK4-HA was transformed into protoplasts of Arabidopsis root cell culture.CITATION Approximately 20 h after transformation, protoplasts were treated for 5 min with 4 mM H2O2, harvested by a short centrifugation step, and frozen in liquid nitrogen. Protein extraction buffer (25 mM Tris, pH 7.8, 75 mM NaCl, 10 mM MgCl2, 15 mM EGTA, 1 mM DTT, 1 mM NaF, 0.5 mM Na2VO3, 15 mM β-glycerophosphate, 15 mM p-nitrophenylphosphate, 0.1% Tween 20, 0.5 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, 5 µg/mL leupeptin, and 5 µg/mL aprotinin) was added and extracts were centrifuged at 14 000g for 30 min. SRPK4-HA was immunoprecipitated overnight with anti-HA antibodies and immunocomplex kinase assays were performed as described before.CITATION Samples were handled further as described above. For testing whether MAPKs phosphorylate SCL30, cytosolic extracts were prepared from untreated cell material with protein extraction buffer. Extracts were centrifuged at 14 000g for 30 min. From the soluble fraction (500 µg of protein), MPK3, -4 and -6 were immunoprecipitated with 2 µL of specific antibody and immunocomplex kinase assays with GST, GST-SCL30 or myelin basic protein were performed. Subsequent steps were carried out as described above. Purified GST-ASKα, GST-ASKα Y229A and GST-ASKα S228A were subjected to SDS-PAGE and blotted onto PVDF membrane. The membrane was incubated with P-TYR-100 anti-phosphotyrosine antibodies (Cell Signaling Technology) in a 1:4000 dilution. The blot was washed, incubated with a Fab-specific, alkaline phosphatase-conjugated goat anti-mouse secondary antibody and washed. The blot was incubated with 1.5 mL of CDP-star reagent and chemiluminescence was detected by using a light-sensitive film.
