!~ABS~! The dynamics of the thiol–disulphide redox proteome is central to cell function and its regulation. Altered mobility of proteins in the oxidized and reduced state allows the MS‐based identification of those thiol–disulphide proteins that undergo major conformational changes. A proteomic approach was taken with thylakoid‐bound, luminal and ribulose‐1,5‐bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco)‐less stromal subproteome fractions of the chloroplast from Arabidopsis thaliana. Among the 49 verified polypeptides were 22 novel redox proteins, previously not reported as being part of the redox proteome. Among the redox‐affected proteins were PsbA (D1), PsaA1 and PsaF, chloroplast monodehydroascorbate reductase and also the Deg1 protease. Recombinant Deg1 and Deg2 revealed redox dependence of their proteolytic activity. The data provide new insights into the redox network of the chloroplast. 
!~RES~! The first part of the experimental work aimed at identifying novel targets for thiol–disulphide transitions in the chloroplast. To this end, the intact chloroplasts were fractionated (Fig. 1). In addition to the proteomics approaches, it appeared necessary to deplete the stromal fractions from the superabundant Rubisco protein that usually represents ≥50% of the chloroplast protein.  [[FIGURE]] After fractionation of the chloroplast proteins into two main subfractions – (1) stroma and (2) thylakoids and envelope membranes, the stromal proteins were further fractionated by size‐exclusion chromatography to decrease the Rubisco content (Fig. 1A). The elution profile of the proteins was monitored with a UV detector, and the fractions were analysed by SDS‐PAGE (Fig. 1B). The most abundant protein (Rubsico) is also one of the largest enzymes with a molecular mass of about 560 kDa composed of eight large and eight small subunits (reviewed in Spreitzer and Salvucci 2002). The buffer used for size‐exclusion chromatography maintained the quaternary structure of the Rubisco that eluted in the first fraction (Fig. 1B). Under the denaturing conditions of SDS‐PAGE, the subunits dissociated and separated as small and large subunits. As judged from gel scan analysis of summed small and large subunit amounts, the Rubisco content decreased from 84% in the first to a level below detection limit in the fifth fraction. The depletion was confirmed by Western blotting. The depletion from Rubisco caused a change in the overall protein pattern by increasing the ratio of low abundant proteins in the ‘Rubisco‐less’ fraction. The fraction containing the thylakoids and envelope membranes were further fractionated first into membranes and luminal proteins and further into integral and peripheral proteins (Fig. 1A). The fractionation strategy was employed to decrease the number of the protein spots on the gel to overcome the well‐known problem of the limited separation on diagonal 2D gels (Yano et al. 2001). Because pure fractions were not required, the analysis of fraction purity was not conducted.  The diagonal 2D redox SDS‐PAGE of the different subfractions revealed a large number of polypeptide spots below and above the diagonal across the gel (Fig. 2). Proteins with intramolecular disulphide bridges often migrate faster in the oxidized form and separate above the diagonal, while polypeptides linked through intermolecular disulphide bridges separate under reducing conditions and as individualized polypeptides run faster in the second dimension (Anderson and Manabe 1979). Proteins without redox‐dependent conformational changes show identical electrophoretic mobility in the first and second dimension and form the predominant diagonal band (Ströher and Dietz 2006). The application of IA and the resultant carboxymethylation of the thiol groups after the treatment itself arrested the thiol–disulphide status of the proteins and prevented oxidation of free thiols during SDS gel electrophoresis (Lane 1978). The second IA treatment after the full reduction of the proteins prior to the second dimension suppressed re‐oxidation of the newly formed cysteines. Because of low protein amount, not all spots could be addressed by mass spectrometric analysis. However, among the 74 identified polypeptides, 49 were verified as proteins located in the chloroplast being associated with its subproteomes and subjected to further analysis (Table 1). A total of 43 of these proteins have one or more cysteinyl residue in their amino acid sequence. The majority of these proteins (26) separated above the diagonal compared with 16 below the diagonal, while 7 were found on both sides of the diagonal. Their function will partly be addressed in the Discussion. With 22, almost half the proteins have not been described as being redox regulated or as representing thioredoxin (Trx) or glutaredoxin (Grx) targets before. To validate the approach and to verify the redox‐related function of one of the novel proteins, the Deg1 protease was selected for further studies.  [[FIGURE]] The plastid‐targeted Deg proteases are encoded by two nuclear isogenes. Both proteases were heterologously expressed in E. coli BL21 cells, purified through affinity chromatography and their purity verified through SDS‐PAGE. Surprisingly, doublet bands were observed in both fractions with a small size difference of about 6 kDa (Fig. 3). Both bands were subjected to mass spectrometric analysis and confirmed as Deg1 and Deg2 proteases, respectively. The detected peptides completely covered the corresponding mature protein sequence, showing that the smaller band is not a truncated version. The activities of the heterologously expressed proteins Deg1 and Deg2 under different redox milieus were measured with two different methods. A zymogram is a gel‐based technique to analyse enzyme activity; the method employed in our study makes use of the co‐polymerized substrate casein in the gel. The position of the active enzyme is indicated by decreased casein amounts and thus by a clear zone after staining and partial destaining with Coomassie brilliant blue. Deg1 exhibited significant substrate specificity towards casein rather than gelatine (data not shown). pH‐dependent activity was maximal at pH 7.5. As cofactor, CaCl2 turned out to be optimal. Interestingly, at optimal pH also, MgCl2 supported the activity. The heterologously expressed Deg1 captured two different conformations (Fig. 3). The transition was redox dependent because the ratio of the upper (40 kDa) to the lower band (34 kDa) shifted with more negative redox potential towards the lower band (Fig. 3A). The impact of the conformational change on the structure of Deg1 got even more obvious with the Western blot analysis (Fig. 3B). The His tag probably became hidden in the structure and was not detectable with the specific antibody against the His tag. The lower band turned out to be the active conformation as revealed by white bands in the zymogram with and without IA treatment after redox state adjustment (Fig. 3C, D). Deg2 formed oligomeric complexes under oxidizing conditions (Fig. 3E, F), possibly a trimer. Deg2 showed no activity in the zymogram assay (data not shown), possibly because of an irreversible inactivation by SDS.  [[FIGURE]] The EnzCheck protease assay (Molecular Probes) was performed to quantitatively evaluate the activity. This technique is based on casein heavily labelled with the pH‐insensitive green fluorescent BODIPY® FL. The fluorescence of the substrate is quenched unless the substrate is digested by proteases. The increase in fluorescence is proportional to the activity of the protease. In this assay, both proteases were active but showed a different redox‐dependent behaviour (Fig. 4). Under reducing conditions (50 mM DTT), the activity of Deg1 was maximal and decreased under oxidizing conditions to 76 and 67% after 0.1 mM H2O2 and 1 mM H2O2 treatment, respectively, supporting the results obtained from the zymogram. For Deg2, the opposite reaction could be observed with an increased activity under oxidizing conditions to 108% (0.1 mM H2O2) and 126% (1 mM H2O2) (Fig. 4). Because the sample was dialysed after the DTT and IA treatment, the redox‐dependent increase of the activity observed for Deg1 is not explained by enhanced unfolding of the substrate casein.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~!  Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Columbia) was grown in soil culture with a 10‐h light/14‐h dark period at 22/18°C and a PPF density of 120 μmol quanta m−2 s−1 with 50% RH. About 5‐ to 6‐week‐old plants were harvested for isolation of intact chloroplasts.  Intact chloroplasts were isolated and purified on a Percoll gradient according to Lamkemeyer et al. (2006). The intact chloroplasts were hypoosmotically lysed by adding four volumes of 5 mM K‐Pi buffer, frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at −80°C until further use. Stroma was separated from thylakoid membranes by centrifugation at 50 000 g and 4°C for 30 min. The stromal supernatant was collected and frozen. Thylakoids were fractionated in luminal and membrane proteins according to Peltier et al. (2000).  The stroma protein was concentrated to 20 mg ml−1 using Amicon centrifugation units (10‐kDa cut‐off; Millipore, Billerica, MA). Size‐exclusion chromatography of the stromal proteins was performed on a Sephacryl S200 column (GE Healthcare, Uppsala, Sweden) at a flow rate of 0.4 ml min−1 pre‐equilibrated with 150 mM Tris–HCl pH 7.5, 1 mM EDTA and 5 mM DTT. Elution of proteins was monitored with a UV detector and 5‐ml fractions were collected. Fractions were analysed by SDS‐PAGE and Western blot using specific antibodies against ribulose‐1,5‐bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco). Band intensities were quantified using the gelscan software package (BIOSCITECH, Marburg, Germany).  The samples were either reduced with 100 mM DTT or oxidized with different concentrations of H2O2 (1 mM and 10 mM) at room temperature (RT) for 30 min. Thiol reshuffling was prevented by alkylation with 100 mM iodoacetamide (IA) at RT in the dark for 30 min.  Non‐reducing SDS sample buffer (one‐fourth volume of 5× concentrated stock) was added and the protein samples were subjected to electrophoresis on a separating gel of 12% (w/v) acrylamide and a stacking gel of 6% acrylamide in the first dimension at constant current (40 mA) for 4 h. After completion of the separation, the protein‐containing gel lanes were excised and incubated in SDS sample buffer containing 100 mM DTT at RT for 15 min. Following a brief wash with SDS running buffer, the gel lanes were incubated in SDS sample buffer containing 100 mM IA at RT for 15 min. Each gel strip was then horizontally applied to another gel of the same specification. Electrophoresis was performed in the second dimension at constant current (50 mA per gel) in a Hoefer gel apparatus for about 14 h. Gels were either silver stained according to the method of Blum et al. (1987) or stained with colloidal Coomassie according to the method of Chan et al. (2005).  Protein spots of interest were excised from the gel and placed in a microtitre plate or reaction tube washed twice with 0.1% (w/v) trifluoroacetic acid/60% (v/v) acetonitrile. The gel slices were washed in 50% (v/v) acetonitrile followed by 50% (v/v) acetonitrile/50 mM NH4HCO3 for 30 min and subsequent 50% (v/v) acetonitrile/10 mM NH4HCO3 at RT for 30 min. The gel slices were dried and rehydrated in trypsin solution (0.013 μg trypsin; in 10 mM NH4HCO3 pH 8.0; sequencing grade trypsin; Promega, Mannheim, Germany) at 4°C before the digestion was performed at 37°C for 12–16 h. The solution containing the released peptides was mixed with the matrix α‐cyano‐4‐hydroxy‐cinnamic acid at a 3:2 ratio. The mass spectrum was obtained on a Biflex III matrix assisted laser desorption/ionisation‐time of flight (MALDI‐TOF)‐MS (Bruker, Bremen, Germany), and the subsequent annotation of the peptide mass fingerprints was performed by the mascot software (Matrix Science, London, UK). The search was performed in the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) protein database.  Mature proteins, i.e. without plastid transit peptide based on the predictions with signalp, were amplified using the following primer combinations: for Deg1, Deg1‐F 5′‐tttgtagttagtactccgaagaaact‐3′; Deg1‐R 5′‐aagccggacgagtcttag‐3′ and for Deg2, Deg2‐F 5′‐gatgaaagttccaatcctcctc‐3′; Deg2‐R 5′‐gatggactggtgtgggcataa‐3′. cDNA cloning into the pCRT7‐NT‐TOPO‐vector or the pEXP‐NT‐TOPO vector (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) was achieved through thymidine‐adenosine (TA) cloning and the products confirmed by sequencing. After transformation into BL21 Escherichia coli cells, protein expression was induced by addition of 0.4 mM isopropyl‐β‐d‐thiogolactopyranoside (IPTG) at 37°C for 2 or 4 h for the Deg1 and the Deg2 proteases, respectively. The cells were sedimented at 5000 g at 4°C for 20 min and frozen at −20°C for further use. Subsequent purification through affinity chromatography was performed at 4°C, and all buffers were supplemented with 10 mMβ‐mercaptoethanol to prevent oxidation. The cells were resuspended in 5 ml g−1 buffer A containing 50 mM NaH2PO4, 300 mM NaCl, 10% (v/v) glycerol, 0.1% (v/v) Tween and 10 mM imidazole, pH 8.0. The suspension was sonified three times for 20 s. Addition of 1 mg lysozyme ml−1 followed by incubation for 1 h and sonifying for 20 s lead to the complete cell lysis. After centrifugation at 15 000 g for 20 min, the clear supernatant was incubated for 1 h with the Ni‐nitriloacetate (NTA) sepharose matrix (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany) on a shaker. Washing was performed with buffer B [50 mM NaH2PO4, 600 mM NaCl, 10% (v/v) glycerol, 0.1% (v/v) Tween and 20 mM imidazole, pH 8.0] and subsequently with buffer C [50 mM NaH2PO4, 800 mM NaCl, 20% (v/v) glycerol, 0.5% (v/v) Tween and 40 mM imidazole, pH 8.0] until the OD280 nm reached zero. Elution was performed with buffer D (50 mM NaH2PO4, 300 mM NaCl and 250 mM imidazole, pH 8.0). Selected fractions were pooled and dialysed against 40 mM K‐Pi buffer, pH 7.0 at 4°C, with several buffer changes. Afterwards, protein concentration was determined using Bio‐Rad reagent (Bio‐Rad Laboratories, Munich, Germany), and aliquots were stored at −80°C.  Different redox potentials (−340, −310, −280 and −240 mV) were calculated with the Nernst equation for a two‐electron reaction and adjusted using defined ratios of DTTred/DTTox with a total DTT concentration of 50 mM according to Hirasawa et al. (1999). All Em value calculations were based on a value of −330 mV for the Em of DTT at pH 7.0 (Hutchison and Ort 1995). Thiol reshuffling was prevented by subsequent alkylation with 100 mM IA for 30 min at RT in the dark.  To assess protease activity, zymograms were performed as described by Lantz and Ciborowski (1994), except that 10 mM MgCl2 or 5 mM CaCl2 plus 5 mM MgCl2 were added to the digestion buffer for the Deg1 and Deg2 proteases, respectively. Prior to the separation, different redox potentials were adjusted.  The activity of the proteases was assayed using the EnzCheck® protease assay kit (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR) following the manufacturer’s instructions, except that 10 mM MgCl2 or 5 mM CaCl2 plus 5 mM MgCl2 were added to the digestion buffer for the Deg1 and Deg2 proteases, respectively. Prior to the assay, the protease redox states were adjusted with the indicated concentrations of DTT or H2O2 and incubated at RT for 30 min. Thiol reshuffling was prevented by alkylation with 100 mM IA at RT in the dark followed by dialysis in 50 mM Tris pH 7.5 to remove excess DTT and IA.  Multiple alignments were performed with clustalw (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/Tools/clustalw/index.html, Chenna et al. 2003) and visualized by jalview version 2.3 (Clamp et al. 2004). The 3D structure predictions were performed by CPHmodels (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/CPHmodels/; Lund et al. 2002) and visualized by deep viewer/swiss pdb viewer version 3.7 (Schwede et al. 2003). The sequences were derived from the NCBI protein database. 
