!~ABS~! Purine metabolism is crucial in living cells and involves three complex pathways in plants: the de novo synthesis, the salvage, and the degradation pathways. The relative importance of each pathway in plant development and reproduction, however, is still unclear. We identified two T-DNA insertions in the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) PUR4 gene (At1g74260) that encodes formylglycinamidine ribonucleotide synthase (EC 6.3.5.3), the fourth enzyme in the de novo purine biosynthesis pathway. The mutated alleles were never transmitted through the pollen of heterozygous plants but could be inherited through the female gametophyte, indicating that de novo purine synthesis is specifically necessary for pollen development. Because the pur4 mutations were lethal to the male gametophyte, homozygous pur4 plants could not be obtained. However, the reproductive phenotype of hetererozygous plants carrying the pur4-2 mutated allele was more severe than that carrying the pur4-1 mutated allele, and pur4-2/+ plants showed slightly delayed early development. We showed that the pur4-2 allele produces an antisense transcript and that the amount of PUR4 mRNA is reduced in these plants. Transient expression of a translational fusion with the green fluorescent protein in Arabidopsis plantlets showed that the formylglycinamidine ribonucleotide synthase protein is dually targeted to chloroplast and mitochondria, suggesting that at least some steps of the de novo purine biosynthesis pathway can take place in both organelles in Arabidopsis, a dual location previously thought to be a peculiarity of ureide-forming tropical legumes.
!~RES~! In a study aimed at identifying mutations that affect genes encoding proteins targeted to mitochondria or plastids and impaired in sexual reproduction (CITATION), we identified two mutations in the PUR4 gene (At1g74260). pur4-1, in the Columbia (Col0) genotype, was obtained from the Joe Ecker T-DNA insertional mutant collection (Salk Institute; SALK 050980); pur4-2 was previously identified in the Wassilewskija (Ws) genotype by a screen designed to isolate gametophytic lethal mutations (CITATION). We determined the complete sequence of the PUR4 mRNA by sequencing overlapping amplification products from the cDNA and performing 3′ and 5′ RACE experiments. We detected a previously unreported intron in the 5′ untranslated region (UTR) of the gene and determined the 5′ and 3′ ends of the mRNA. The resulting sequence is aligned with the genomic sequence in Supplemental Figure S1. The PUR4 gene structure is presented in Figure 1 , showing the positions of the T-DNA insertions in the two mutant alleles. We analyzed both mutations by DNA hybridization analyses and sequencing (Supplemental Fig. S2). The pur4-1 T-DNA insertion is complex, but its 5′ flanking sequence was confirmed by sequencing. The pur4-2 T-DNA insertion is simple and was confirmed by sequencing the 5′ and 3′ flanking regions. In both cases, DNA hybridization showed that no other copy of the T-DNA was present in the plants carrying the mutated alleles, since the nptII probe on EcoRI digestions (only one site in each T-DNA) gave only one hybridization signal for both insertions. [[FIGURE]] The selfed progeny of hemizygous plants from both T-DNA lines was screened for the T-DNA insertion, either on kanamycin-containing medium or by direct PCR genotyping. Plants homozygous for the pur4 mutations were never recovered for either allele. The transmission efficiency of both mutations in selfed plants is shown in Figure 2 (see Supplemental Tables S1 and S2 for detailed results). The transmission rate of both mutant alleles was dramatically lower than expected for a Mendelian trait. Two types of mutations result in lower transmission rates in selfed progeny and the absence of homozygous mutants: (1) embryo-lethal mutations, which are transmitted to two-thirds of the viable progeny because of the loss of homozygous mutants; and (2) gametophyte-lethal mutations, which are transmitted to only half of the progeny because of the loss of either the male or the female gametes carrying the mutation. If the mutation is lethal for both gametes, it is not transmitted to offspring and is completely lost. [[FIGURE]] We found that the pur4 mutations were transmitted even less efficiently than expected for a gametophyte-lethal mutation and that the pur4-2 allele was transmitted less efficiently than the pur4-1 allele. These results suggest that at least one of the two gametophytes is unable to transmit the mutated pur4 alleles. In order to determine the cause of this transmission deficiency more precisely, we made reciprocal crosses with wild-type plants (Table I ). When the pur4/+ plants were used as pollen donors, none of the resulting progeny carried either of the pur4 mutations, showing that the male gametophyte could not transmit the pur4 mutations. We conclude that the pur4 mutations are male gametophyte lethal. Following crosses using the pur4/+ plants as the female parent, the two mutations were recovered, although often in less than half of the progeny (Table I). Therefore, we suspect that the pur4 mutations also have an effect on the female gametophyte. Results of reciprocal crosses between pur4-1/+ and pur4-2/+ plants and wild-type plants Overall, the transmission of the pur4 mutant alleles was analyzed in progeny from 36 pur4-1/+ and 71 pur4-2/+ individual plants. Although all were heterozygous, the kanamycin-resistant plantlets carrying the pur4-2 mutation showed delayed germination and early development, regardless of whether they resulted from selfing or outcrossing or were produced by pur4-2/+ plants themselves issued from selfing or backcrossing. In addition, the germination efficiency of seeds from pur4-2/+ plants was extremely variable (25%–100%) and often quite poor, whether produced by selfing or outcrossing or from plants themselves originating from selfing or backcrossing (data not shown). Sometimes, a few pur4-2/+ plantlets appeared to be chlorotic (Fig. 3A ). The proportion (0%–2%) of these pale plants in (selfed or backcrossed) progeny was variable between individual progenies. When transferred to the greenhouse, pale plants grew slowly but finally reached the reproductive stage and set seeds at roughly the same time as wild-type siblings (Fig. 3B). All of the plants carrying the pur4-1 mutation were indistinguishable from wild-type plants (Fig. 3A). [[FIGURE]] We observed that pur4-2/+ plants, issued either from selfing or backcrossing, had smaller anthers and produced less pollen than pur4-1/+ or wild-type plants (Fig. 3C). We Alexander stained and examined pollen in mature anthers of pur4-1/+ and pur4-2/+ plants issued from backcrosses (Fig. 3C) and scored viable (red-stained) or aborted (green-stained) pollen grains (Fig. 3D). In both wild-type controls, no aborted pollen was observed. In pur4-1/+ plants, however, half of the pollen was aborted, and because the mutation is not transmitted through pollen, we inferred that the dead pollen carries the pur4-1 mutation. In pur4-2/+ anthers, more than half of the pollen had aborted. We concluded that some of the pollen grains carrying the wild-type PUR4 allele also died in the pur4-2/+ background. We carried out further cytological observations on anthers from pur4-1/+ and pur4-2/+ plants issued from backcrosses in order to define the precise stage at which pollen development is impaired (Fig. 4 ). In both heterozygous genotypes, pollen development was indistinguishable from that of the wild type until the vacuolated microspore stage (buds with a 1-mm pistil; data not shown). In buds with a 1.25-mm pistil, corresponding to pollen mitosis I (PMI) or soon after, we observed poorly stained cytoplasm and a remaining large vacuole in a large proportion (roughly half) of pollen grains in both heterozygous genotypes (Fig. 4A). In pur4-1/+ and pur4-2/+ buds with a 1.5-mm pistil, corresponding to pollen mitosis II (PMII) or soon after, about half of the pollen grains had almost completely collapsed. In addition, in pur4-2/+ anthers, some of the remaining normally shaped pollen grains also showed poorly stained cytoplasm (arrows in Fig. 4B). Again, the proportion of these poorly stained pollen grains was variable among pur4-2/+ plants. Next, we stained mature pollen with 4′,6-diamino-phenylindole (DAPI) and found that some of the nonaborted pollen grains in pur4-2/+ anthers had abnormal nuclei numbers, suggesting impaired pollen mitoses (Fig. 4C). [[FIGURE]] Finally, we scored the number of fully developed seeds and the number of empty spaces (holes) in mature siliques of plants issued from backcrosses. The results are shown in Fig. 5 . Both heterozygous mutants showed lower seed set than their wild-type siblings. Again, the phenotype was more severe for the pur4-2 allele. [[FIGURE]] We analyzed the expression of the PUR4 gene in pur4-2/+ plants issued from selfing compared with wild-type plants by performing quantitative reverse transcription (RT)-PCR analyses on total RNA from different organs (data not shown). In all organs, the PUR4 mRNA was accumulated at less than 20% of the wild-type level in pur4-2/+ plants. We repeated quantitative RT-PCR analysis on plantlets issued from the backcross. Results of the expression level of PUR4 in several individual plants are shown in Figure 6A . We observed that pur-4/+ plantlets accumulated between 15% and 30% of the amount of PUR4 mRNA found in their wild-type siblings. Seedlings carrying the pur4-1 mutation accumulated approximately 50% of the wild-type level of PUR4 mRNA (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] The low level of PUR4 mRNA in pur4-2/+ plants suggests that the accumulation of the PUR4 transcript is affected by a suppression mechanism in these plants. A possible explanation could be that an aberrant RNA is produced from the mutated allele, leading to a decrease of the PUR4 transcript. To test this hypothesis, we performed RT-PCR experiments with primers allowing the detection of sense and antisense transcripts in plants issued from the backcross. The results are shown in Figure 6, B and C. The sense transcript originating from the PUR4 allele was detected in both pur4-2/+ and wild-type plants (Fig. 6B). Oppositely, we detected an antisense transcript only in pur4-2/+ plants (Fig. 6C). A partial sequence of the pur4-2-specific antisense RNA was obtained by sequencing several RT-PCR products. Alignment of the resulting sequences with the PUR4 gene and the pGKB5 T-DNA sequences is shown in Supplemental Figure S1. We conclude that the pur4-2 allele produces an antisense chimeric transcript, overlapping the PUR4 and T-DNA sequences, which may interfere with PUR4 mRNA accumulation. The enzymes for de novo purine synthesis are predicted to be targeted to plastids, and the Arabidopsis ATase, which catalyzes the first step of the pathway, was shown to be present in chloroplasts (CITATION). However, in tropical legumes, this pathway was localized to both mitochondria and plastids (CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, we decided to investigate the subcellular localization of the PUR4 protein in Arabidopsis. We constructed a translational fusion between the first 94 amino acid residues of the PUR4 protein and the GFP under the control of the 35S promoter using Gateway technology. The resulting chimeric gene possesses the entire 5′ UTR of the PUR4 gene. Transient expression experiments were performed in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves (data not shown) and Arabidopsis plantlets via Agrobacterium infiltration, using the PUR4-GFP resulting vector and a vector expressing a potato (Solanum tuberosum) formate dehydrogenase (FDH)-DsRed2 fusion known to be targeted to mitochondria (CITATION). Figure 7 shows an example of the typically observed patterns in Arabidopsis adaxial cotyledon cells. Both GFP and DsRed2 signals exhibited very similar distribution patterns in cells and could be superposed in an overlay (Fig. 7, A, B, and D). Both signals colocalized in optical sections, indicating that both proteins are targeted to the same organelles. Optical sections also revealed that the GFP signal in PUR4-GFP-expressing cells was also visible in the chloroplasts, identified by the autofluorescence of the chlorophyll (Fig. 7, B–D). These results strongly suggest that the Arabidopsis FGAMS is localized to both organelles, as shown previously for other enzymes of the de novo purine biosynthesis pathway of legumes (CITATION). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Seeds of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) ecotype Col0 carrying the pur4-1 mutation (SALK 050980) and seeds of Arabidopsis ecotype Ws carrying the pur4-2 mutation (FST 064G02) were obtained from the Salk Institute collection (CITATION) and the Versailles collection (CITATION) of T-DNA insertional mutants, respectively. When the use of wild-type siblings as controls is not specified, wild-type Arabidopsis Col0 and Ws seeds were used as controls. Seeds grown in vitro for genetic analyses and for kanamycin resistance assays were surface sterilized for 10 min with a solution containing 10% (v/v) commercial bleach (Minichlor; Hygiena) diluted in 95°C ethyl alcohol and 0.05% (v/v) Teepol 610 (Serva). Seeds were rinsed thoroughly with 95°C ethyl alcohol and dried overnight in a sterile hood. Seeds were sown on Arabidopsis medium (CITATION) with or without kanamycin (100 mg L−1) and germinated in a growth chamber (16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle, 21°C, 50% hygrometry) after a cold treatment for 48 h at 4°C. Plants used for phenotypic and cytological analyses were grown in the greenhouse at 20°C to 25°C under a 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle. For RNA extraction from separated organs, plants were grown hydroponically in the greenhouse as described above. Arabidopsis plantlets of the Landsberg erecta genotype used for transient expression experiments were grown in vitro as described above. Primers used in this study are shown in Supplemental Table S3, and the positions of those targeted to the PUR4 gene are shown in Figure 1. For genotyping PCR, genomic DNA was quickly extracted according to CITATION. For DNA hybridization experiments, genomic DNA was extracted from plantlets or leaves as described by CITATION. Total RNA was extracted from roots, leaves, stems, and flowers of 4-week-old plants using Trizol reagent (Invitrogen). One hundred micrograms of total RNA was treated with 30 units of RNase-free DNase I using the RNeasy plant mini kit cleaning procedure (Qiagen) and eluted with RNase-free water. The quality of RNA was verified by gel electrophoresis using either ethidium bromide staining or an Agilent RNA 6000 nano kit and Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer (Agilent Technologies). T-DNA insertions were confirmed using specific primers from either the right or left border of the T-DNA and gene-specific primers (primers 1/2 and 3/4). The PUR4 wild-type allele was amplified using a pair of gene-specific primers (primers 5/6 and 7/8). PCR annealing temperatures and expected sizes of amplification products are presented in Supplemental Table S4 for all of the primer pairs used in this study. PCR amplifications were performed with 100 ng of genomic DNA as template in a reaction volume of 25 μL containing 1× Taq buffer, 1.5 mm MgCl2, each deoxynucleotide at 0.2 mm, each primer at 0.5 μm, and 1 unit of Taq DNA polymerase (Fermentas). The PCR was run under the following conditions: 5 min of initial denaturation at 95°C, 30 cycles of 30 s at 95°C, 30 s at specific annealing temperature, and 1 min kb−1 (depending on the amplification product size) at 72°C, followed by 10 min at 72°C. Amplification products obtained with gene-specific primer/right border or left border primer combinations were cloned and sequenced. For each PCR product, four independent clones were sequenced. RT-PCR experiments were carried out to determine the full-length PUR4 mRNA sequence. The absence of DNA contamination in total RNA was tested by PCR as described above using PUR4 gene-specific primers 27 and 31. First-strand cDNA was synthesized as follows: 500 ng of total RNA was mixed with 1 μg of dT18 primer, and the volume was adjusted to 10.5 μL with RNase-free water. Samples were denatured at 65°C for 5 min. The following mix composed of 1× RT buffer, 0.625 mm dNTPs, 10 mm DTT, and 20 units of RNase inhibitor (Fermentas) was added to the samples to reach a final reaction volume of 19 μL. A total of 200 units (1 μL) of RevertAid H minus M-MuLVRT (Fermentas) was added (in RT-minus samples, it was replaced by 1 μL of RNase-free water), and samples were incubated for 1 h at 42°C. Reactions were terminated at 70°C during 15 min. One microliter (2 units) of RNase H (Fermentas) was finally added to the reaction, and samples were incubated for 20 min at 37°C. PCRs were run as described above using 2 μL of first-strand cDNA product. Four pairs of gene-specific primers (9/10, 11/12, 13/14, and 15/16), producing four overlapping amplification products, first-strand cDNA from wild-type plants, and AB gene high-fidelity Taq polymerase (Promega) were used for the sequencing of the PUR4 mRNA. 5′ UTR and 3′ UTR PCR products were obtained using 5′ and 3′ RACE systems (Invitrogen) with 5′ and 3′ gene-specific primers (17/18 and 19/20). To detect the antisense mRNA PCR product, a first PCR was run with 5 μL of first-strand cDNA obtained as above from pur4-2/+ plants using primers 28 and 33. The extension of the antisense mRNA into the T-DNA was demonstrated using primers 27 and 3 (targeting the pGKB5 left border). The sequences of both RT-PCR products were assembled to give the partial sequence given in Supplemental Figure S1. For both RNAs, each PCR product was purified using the NucleoTrap kit (Macherey-Nagel) and cloned using the TOPO TA cloning kit (Invitrogen). For each PCR product, four independent clones were sequenced. Real-time RT-PCR was carried out using the ABI PRISM 7900HT Sequence Detection System (Applied Biosystems). A specific primer set (21/22) was designed to amplify a 211-bp fragment on the PUR4 cDNA. A standard curve was generated from duplicate series of five DNA template dilutions to test PCR efficiencies. PCR was conducted in duplicate in the presence of 1 ng of cDNA, 1.2 μL of each primer (2.5 μm), 5 μL of SYBR Green Mastermix, and distilled water to a final volume of 10 μL. PCR conditions were as described above, with 10 min at 95°C and 40 cycles at 95°C for 10 s and 60°C for 10 s. The results were standardized by comparing the data obtained for the ACTIN2 gene (primer set 23/24). The quantification of gene expression was performed using the comparative cycle threshold number method. The subcellular localization of the PUR4 protein was predicted in silico using four different software programs: TargetP version 1.1 (CITATION), Predotar version 1.03 (CITATION; www.inra.fr/Internet/Produits/Predotar/), MitoProtII (CITATION; www.mips.biochem.mpg.de/cgi-bin/proj/medgen/mitofilter), and IPSORT (CITATION; www.HypothesisCreator.net/iPSORT/). The sequence coding for the putative targeting peptide was amplified using the primer pair 25/26. Using the Gateway cloning technology (Invitrogen), the 605-bp amplification product was shuttled to the pDONR207 entry vector by a BP recombination reaction, sequenced, and subsequently transferred to the pGreen0229 GFP binary vector (CITATION) by a LR recombination reaction. The resulting binary vector was electroporated into Agrobacterium tumefaciens C58C1 strain (CITATION) harboring the transformation helper pSoup (CITATION). The PUR4-GFP fusion protein was transiently expressed in Arabidopsis cotyledons via agroinfiltration as described by CITATION. Agrobacterium carrying a binary vector that allows the expression of a FDH-DsRed2 fusion protein, kindly provided by C. Colas des Francs-Small, was coinfiltrated with that carrying the PUR4-GFP fusion. This vector is a modified version of the vector described by CITATION in which the GFP coding sequence was substituted by the DsRed2 coding sequence (C. Colas Des Francs-Small, personal communication). Cotyledons were harvested at 72 h after infiltration and were mounted on a glass slide. Fluorescent proteins were visualized in adaxial cotyledon cells using a spectral Leica SP2 AOBS confocal microscope (Leica Microsystems) equipped with an argon laser and a HeNe laser. Different fluorochromes were detected using laser lines 488 nm (GFP) and 543 nm (DsRed2 and chlorophyll autofluorescence). The images were coded green (GFP), red (DsRed2), and blue (chlorophyll autofluorescence), giving yellow colocalization when green and red signals overlap and white colocalization when green and blue signals overlap in merged images. Microscopic observations were carried out using a Leica HC PL APO 633/1.20 Water Corr/0.17 Lbd.BL objective. Each image shown represents the projection of optical sections taken as a Z series. To determine the specificity of the signals, sequential scans were performed using in between line mode. All cytological analyses were performed on pur4/+ plants issued from backcrosses. Pollen viability was evaluated after Alexander staining (CITATION). After staining, the number of viable and collapsed pollen grains was counted. Toluidine blue O staining was carried out as described by CITATION on resin-embedded sections of flower buds corresponding to five individual plants for each genotype. Freshly harvested flower buds were treated using the Technovit 7100 kit. Sections (12 μm) were cut using a microtome equipped with a glass blade (Leica RM2165). Sections were mounted on a glass slide and stained. DAPI staining of mature pollen was done according to CITATION on anthers of freshly harvested flower buds. Observations were made on flowers from 10 plants for each genotype. Samples were visualized with a Leitz DIAPLAN microscope under UV light for DAPI staining and in bright-field conditions for toluidine blue O and Alexander staining. Photographs were captured with a Leica DFC 480 camera. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession number EU091297. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Sequence alignments. Supplemental Figure S2. Analysis of T-DNA insertions in the PUR4 gene. Supplemental Table S1. pur4-1 transmission in the selfed progeny of heterozygous pur4-1/+ plants. Supplemental Table S2. Kanamycin-resistant segregation in the selfed progeny of heterozygous pur4-2/+ plants. Supplemental Table S3. Primers used. Supplemental Table S4. Annealing temperatures for PCR and amplification product sizes for primer combinations used in this work.
