!~ABS~! Salicylic acid (SA) is an important mediator of plant defense response. In Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), this compound was proposed to derive mainly from isochorismate, itself produced from chorismate through the activity of ISOCHORISMATE SYNTHASE1 (ICS1). Null ics1 mutants still accumulate some SA, suggesting the existence of an enzymatic activity redundant with ICS1 or of an alternative ICS-independent SA biosynthetic route. Here, we studied the role of ICS2, a second ICS gene of the Arabidopsis genome, in the production of SA. We have shown that ICS2 encodes a functional ICS enzyme and that, similar to ICS1, ICS2 is targeted to the plastids. Comparison of SA accumulation in the ics1, ics2, and ics1 ics2 mutants indicates that ICS2 participates in the synthesis of SA, but in limited amounts that become clearly detectable only when ICS1 is lacking. This unequal redundancy relationship was also observed for phylloquinone, another isochorismate-derived end product. Furthermore, detection of SA in the double ics1 ics2 double mutant that is completely devoid of phylloquinone provides genetic evidence of the existence of an ICS-independent SA biosynthetic pathway in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! Two isochorismate synthase genes, ICS1 (At1g74710) and ICS2 (At1g18870), are present in the genome of Arabidopsis. These two genes belong to two blocks of approximately 3.5 Mb containing ordered fragments of similar sequence and therefore presumably originate from an ancient genomic duplication event (see http://wolfe.gen.tcd.i.e./athal/dup; CITATION). We first obtained a complete sequence of ICS2 to compare the nucleotide sequences of ICS1 and ICS2. No full-length ICS2 cDNA sequence was available from public databases and the current conceptual translation of the ICS2 coding sequence, relying on ESTs, predicted an ICS2 protein sequence lacking an N-terminal extension compared to ICS1. We have isolated the 5′-end of the ICS2 messenger by using the RACE-PCR technique and then its full-length coding sequence by reverse transcription-PCR (accession no. EU589462). We found that the most 5′-located EST (N96097) matched our ICS2 cDNA sequence but started at position 216 only, and so therefore did not include the first ATG start codon located at position 58 and suggested an erroneous start codon. The translation of the complete ICS2 coding sequence (562 amino acids) includes an N-terminal extension predicted to be a plastid-targeting peptide, unlike the current annotation for ICS2, but similar to ICS1. Overall, ICS1 and ICS2 share 78% identity and 88% similarity at the amino acid level and are close to the characterized C. roseus CrICS (72% similarity with both ICS1 and ICS2; Fig. 1A ; CITATION). ICS1, ICS2, and CrICS contain the so-called chorismate-binding domain (Pfam accession no. PF00425) and conserved key residues consistent with an ICS catalytic activity (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] At the genomic level, the ICS2 gene contains 15 exons, compared to 13 for ICS1, but the overall exon/intron organization has been retained since the event that duplicated the ICS genes (Fig. 1B). Minor exceptions are the splitting of exons 3 and 4 of ICS1 into exons 3 to 6 of ICS2 or, alternatively, the fusion of exons 3 to 6 of ICS2 into exons 3 and 4 of ICS1. Analysis of the ICS1 and ICS2 sequences with TargetP (CITATION) and Predotar (CITATION) software suggested that both proteins contained a plastid-targeting signal. The predicted localization in plastids is consistent with the production of the chorismate substrate in these organelles. Plastid localization of ICS1 and ICS2 was tested by fusing their coding sequence to GFP and transiently expressing these constructs in tobacco cells. Observations of the transformed cells with a laser confocal microscope clearly showed that the GFP fluorescence colocalized with chlorophyll fluorescence, indicating that both fusion proteins were located within the chloroplasts (Fig. 2 ). As a control, we expressed GFP alone following the same protocol and observed a cytosolic signal. [[FIGURE]] ICS1 was initially proposed to catalyze the conversion of chorismate into isochorismate based on sequence similarity with a characterized ICS from C. roseus (CITATION). To determine experimentally whether ICS1, but also ICS2, truly possess such an ICS enzymatic activity, we relied on a functional complementation assay. In Escherichia coli, an endogenous ICS activity is required for production of enterobactin, a high-affinity iron ligand secreted in the medium and internalized following iron chelation (CITATION). Iron scavenging by microorganisms can be monitored easily using the chrome azurol sulfonate (CAS) medium devised by CITATION. This medium contains a dye that forms an intense blue complex with iron and turns orange when iron has been transferred to another iron-binding molecule. For our functional assay, we used PBB8, a mutant of E. coli that lacks endogenous ICS activity and is therefore unable to produce enterobactin (CITATION; Fig. 3 ). As a positive control, we have used the E. coli EntC gene encoding an ICS that restored enterobactin production after introduction into the PBB8 strain, and entailed the formation of an orange halo around positive colonies (Fig. 3). PBB8 cells expressing ICS1 under the control of the strong isopropylthio-β-galactoside (IPTG)-inducible Ptac promoter also showed an orange halo even without induction by IPTG, indicating that ICS1 could complement the PBB8 ICS deficiency. No significant coloration was observed for cells expressing ICS2 under the same conditions. However, induction by IPTG at 0.2 mm led to the appearance of the orange signature for siderophore production (Fig. 3), thus demonstrating that ICS2 encodes functional ICS enzymes similarly to ICS1. [[FIGURE]] The apparent difference of response to IPTG between ICS1 and ICS2 in the CAS assay was not due to variations of the expression system because both were cloned in the same vector, under the control of the same promoter and 5′-untranslated region, after removal of the transit peptide-coding sequence. Expression problems due to codon bias were also prevented by using the pRARE plasmid throughout the experiment (CITATION). Instead, we observed that the ICS2 protein accumulated at much lower levels than ICS1 in E. coli cells by using tagged versions of ICS1 and ICS2 (data not shown). Expression of ICS1 and ICS2 in E. coli also allowed us to test whether these two enzymes could generate SA directly from chorismate. No SA accumulated in cell cultures, unlike cells expressing the positive control PchB from Pseudomonas aeruginosa (CITATION), therefore suggesting that ICS1 and ICS2 have no isochorismate pyruvate lyase activity (data not shown). To determine the relative contribution of ICS1 and ICS2 to isochorismate production, we used the following mutants: ics1 (sid2-1 allele [CITATION]) and ics2 (carrying a T-DNA insertion in the ICS2 gene of Arabidopsis [SALK_084635]). Neither of these single mutants exhibited a striking visual phenotype compared to the wild type (Fig. 4A ). We focused our study on phylloquinone and SA, presumably both derived from isochorismate in Arabidopsis. Phylloquinone was measured in the ics1 and ics2 mutant lines by fluorescence HPLC after reduction of phylloquinone to the phyllohydroquinone form according to CITATION. The pylloquinone content in leaves of ics1 was reduced to approximately 35% of wild type, indicating that the ICS1 gene product provides the predominant amount of isochorismate required for phylloquinone synthesis (Fig. 4B). The amount of phylloquinone of the homozygous ics2 mutant was not different from wild type (Fig. 4B). Although the phylloquinone content in ics1 was strongly reduced, the total chlorophyll content was not affected (1,169 ± 62, 1,182 ± 61, and 1,208 ± 103 μg g−1 fresh weight in wild type, ics1, and ics2, respectively). [[FIGURE]] The functional overlap between ICS1 and ICS2 was investigated in double homozygous ics1 ics2 mutants. F2 plants derived from a cross of ics1 and ics2 were raised on Suc-containing medium and screened for double homozygous lines by phylloquinone measurements and by PCR using oligonucleotides designed for the ics2 locus. Double homozygous ics1 ics2 mutants remained smaller than the wild type and single mutants, and displayed a pale green to yellowish pigmentation (Fig. 4A). Besides this strong reduction in growth, they could only be maintained on Suc medium. The novel growth defects present in the double mutant compared to the single mutants indicated that both genes were dispensable, but not together, and that at least one was required and sufficient for normal growth under these conditions. This defines a symmetrical or equal redundancy between ICS1 and ICS2 with respect to the ability to grow under standard conditions. Double homozygous mutant lines (ics1 ics2) were totally devoid of phylloquinone (Fig. 4B). Plants homozygous for the ics1 mutation, but heterozygous for ics2, contained significantly less phylloquinone (19% of wild type; data not shown) than ics1 single mutants (35% of wild type; see above; see also CITATION), suggesting that the ICS2 enzyme becomes limiting for isochorismate production in the ics1 mutant background. SA is presumed to derive from isochorismate in Arabidopsis because SA accumulation was shown to be severely impaired in the ics1 mutant upon inducing conditions (CITATION; CITATION). We have analyzed the induction of SA accumulation in the ics1, ics2, and ics1 ics2 mutants after UV treatment, a known stimulus for SA accumulation (CITATION). As expected, the ics1 mutant accumulated roughly 10% of total SA compared to the wild type (0.47 ± 0.14 versus 4.17 ± 1.26 μg g−1 fresh weight, respectively; Fig. 4C). The mean value for the ics2 mutant was similar to the wild-type reference (4.13 ± 1.27 versus 4.17 ± 1.26 μg g−1 fresh weight; Fig. 4C). Therefore, in the wild type, the ics2 mutation does not have a high impact on SA accumulation upon UV exposure or in a noninduced state (0.54 ± 0.09 versus 0.56 ± 0.12 μg g−1 fresh weight). This result was expected following the simple reasoning that if (1) ICS1 and ICS2 were independently regulated, and (2) ICS1 accounted for approximately 90% of the total amount of isochorismate produced in these conditions (phenotype of the ics1 mutant), then ICS2, at best, would contribute to only 10% of isochorismate production in these conditions and consequently an ics2 mutant should not be strongly affected in SA accumulation. We then determined whether ICS2 was required for the production of the remaining SA in the ics1 mutant and evaluated the genetic relationship between ICS1 and ICS2 in the course of SA biosynthesis after UV induction using the ics1 ics2 double mutant. Without any induction, ics1 ics2 double mutants accumulated approximately 43% of total SA relative to the ics1 mutant (0.12 ± 0.08 versus 0.28 ± 0.09 μg g−1 fresh weight; Fig. 4C). The difference in SA accumulation between the ics1 and ics1 ics2 mutants can be assigned to the activity of the ICS2 gene product. The same effect was observed after UV stimulation because the ics1 ics2 double mutant produced total SA in a similar range of about 36% relative to the ics1 mutant (0.17 ± 0.12 versus 0.47 ± 0.14 μg g−1 fresh weight; Fig. 4C). The structure of SA in the double mutant was verified by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS; Fig. 5 ). These results imply that ICS2 can be involved in SA biosynthesis through isochorismate production; however, its contribution is marginal compared to ICS1. Because the values before and after UV induction are not statistically very different both for the ics1 and ics1 ics2 mutants, we can further conclude that, unlike ICS1, ICS2 does not display a strong inducible activity following UV irradiation. The detection of SA in the double ics1 ics2 mutant that is devoid of plastid ICS activity, as suggested from the absence of phylloquinone, indicates that an alternative SA biosynthetic pathway is active. Our data show that this pathway is not inducible by UV irradiation and accounts for minor amounts of total SA production (about 20% in uninduced state and 4% after UV induction). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Plants were grown on a pasteurized soil mix of humus:perlite (3:1) under a 12-h-light/12-h-dark cycle, with a night temperature of 16°C and a day temperature of 20°C to 22°C. Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) accession Columbia-0 was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (Columbus, OH). The T-DNA insertion mutant ics2 (SALK_084635; CITATION) was obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre. We used the First-Choice RLM-RACE kit (Ambion) to determine the 5′-end of the ICS2 messenger, following instructions of the manufacturer. GFP fusions were realized by using Gateway technology. ICS1 and ICS2 cDNAs were amplified from reverse transcription products with Pfu polymerase (Stratagene) using primers ICS1-6 (CACCATGGCTTCACTTCAATTTTCT) and ICS1-8 (ATTAATCGCCTGTAGAGATG), and ICS2-5 (CACCATGGCGTCGCTTCAGTGTTCA) and ICS2-7 (GTTGATTGGTTGCAAAGCTGA), respectively, and then cloned into the entry vector pENTR-D-Topo (Invitrogen). Entry clones were then recombined with the pB7FWG2 vector (CITATION), generating cDNA-GFP fusions driven by the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. The pB7F2 control vector was generated by digestion of pB7FWG2 with EcoRV followed by self-ligation, thus removing the ccdB cassette and placing GFP directly under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. The vectors were then transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101. The Agrobacterium infiltration procedure was realized as described (CITATION), except that the 50-mL culture step was omitted and that acetosyringone was used at 100 μm. Infiltrated patches of leaves were observed after 3 to 4 d with a Bio-Rad MRC 1024 laser confocal microscope. For imaging GFP and chlorophyll, excitation was at 488 and 647 nm, respectively, and emissions were collected with a 506- to 538-nm band-pass filter (referred as 522DF32) and a 664- to 696-nm band-pass filter (referred as 680DF32), respectively. Empty vector pJF119EH1 and EntC-overexpressing construct pDF2 (CITATION) were a kind gift from G. Sprenger (Stuttgart, Germany). ICS1 coding sequence without the first 45 amino acids was flanked with NcoI and BamHI restriction sites by amplification with primers ICS1-1 (AACTTTAAGAAGGAGATATACCATGGCATATGCTATGTCTATGAATGGTTGTGAT) and ICS1-2 (GGATCCTCAATTAATCGCCTGTAGAGA) and was subcloned into the pGEM-T-Easy vector (Promega). An EcoRI-BamHI fragment from this construct was then inserted into pJF119EH1 to give pJF202. The ICS2 coding sequence without the first 50 amino acids was amplified with primers ICS2-8 (CTTTAAGAAGGAGATATACCATGGCAAACGGATGTGAGGCTGACCAC) and ICS2-9 (GGATCCTTAGTTGATTGGTTGCAAAGC) and then subcloned into pJF202 as a NcoI-BamHI fragment, giving pJF608. These constructs were introduced into the entC− MenF− PBB8 E. coli strain (CITATION), previously transformed with the pRARE plasmid (CITATION). The PBB8 strain was kindly provided by E. Leistner (Bonn). Individual colonies were allowed to grow for 6 h in 400 μL of Luria-Bertani medium containing ampicillin and chloramphenicol; bacterial cells were then rinsed in MgSO4 (10 mm) and plated onto CAS agar (CITATION) supplemented with 10% casamino acids (BD Biosciences). The primers ICS2-1 (GTCTTCAAAGTCTCCTCTGAT) and ICS2-2 (TGAATCACCTCTAGGCCTTGT) were used to detect a wild-type copy of the ICS2 gene by PCR. The T-DNA disrupted allele (CITATION) was detected by using primers ICS2-2 and Lba1 (TGGTTCACGTAGTGGGCCATCG). PCR reactions for investigating the presence of wild-type and mutant alleles were run separately. Phylloquinone was measured in the ics1 and ics2 mutants by fluorescence HPLC after reduction of phylloquinone to the phyllohydroquinone form (CITATION). Samples were taken from leaves of plants grown on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 1% Suc 18 h after exposure to UVC light for stimulation of SA accumulation (CITATION). SA was extracted and total SA (free and conjugated) quantified using a modification of the method previously described (CITATION). Leaf tissue (0.2–0.3 g with 1.5 μg o-anisic acid as internal standard) was extracted twice with 2 mL of 100% methanol each. After evaporation of methanol from the combined extracts, acid hydrolysis was performed with 4 n HCl at 80°C for 1 h, and SA was extracted twice with 2 mL of ethyl acetate:hexane (1:1). The combined organic extracts were evaporated, redissolved in 50 μL acetonitrile of which 20 μL were injected on a reverse-phase HPLC column (ABZ+, 250 mm × 4.6 mm; Supelco) and separated at a flow rate of 1 mL min−1 (Agilent 1100 HPLC system; Böblingen). Elution began with an isocratic flow of 15% acetonitrile in water (pH 2.6 adjusted with phosphoric acid) for 1 min, followed by a linear increase to 20% acetonitrile over 5 min, isocratic elution at 20% for 10 min, a linear increase from 20% to 55% acetonitrile over 9.5 min, and to 90% in 5 min. For column regeneration, acetonitrile was decreased linearly from 90% to 0%, followed by a linear increase to 15% acetonitrile and an isocratic flow at 15% for 4 min. Fluorescence was recorded with excitation/emission wavelengths of 305/365 nm and 305/407 nm for o-anisic acid and SA, respectively (CITATION). For GC-MS analysis, the SA samples were extracted as described above. After evaporation of solvent, 50 μL of N-methyl-N-trimethylsilyl-trifluoracetamide was added, and the samples were incubated for 1 h at 80°C for silylation. After the evaporation of N-methyl-N-trimethylsilyl-trifluoracetamide, the extracts were redissolved in 40 μL of hexane. The trimethylsilyl derivatives of SA were analyzed by GC using an Agilent 6890 system (Agilent) equipped with an Agilent 5973 quadrupole mass detector. The inlet was maintained at 260°C and operated in the splitless mode (injection volume 1 μL). A 30 m × 530 μm and 0.2-μm film thickness SP-2380 column (Supelco) was used for analyses with a helium flow of 5.1 mL min−1. The initial oven temperature was 80°C and was then ramped to 180°C at a rate of 1°C min−1. The oven temperature was maintained at 180°C for 1 min and decreased to 80°C with a rate of 20°C min−1. Silylated SA and o-anisic acid were detected at m/z 267 and 209, respectively. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers NP_565090, ACC60228, and CAA06837.
