!~ABS~! Xylogalacturonan (XGA) is a class of pectic polysaccharide found in plant cell walls. The Arabidopsis thaliana locus At5g33290 encodes a predicted Type II membrane protein, and insertion mutants of the At5g33290 locus had decreased cell wall xylose. Immunological studies, enzymatic extraction of polysaccharides, monosaccharide linkage analysis, and oligosaccharide mass profiling were employed to identify the affected cell wall polymer. Pectic XGA was reduced to much lower levels in mutant than in wild-type leaves, indicating a role of At5g33290 in XGA biosynthesis. The mutated gene was designated xylogalacturonan deficient1 (xgd1). Transformation of the xgd1-1 mutant with the wild-type gene restored XGA to wild-type levels. XGD1 protein heterologously expressed in Nicotiana benthamiana catalyzed the transfer of xylose from UDP-xylose onto oligogalacturonides and endogenous acceptors. The products formed could be hydrolyzed with an XGA-specific hydrolase. These results confirm that the XGD1 protein is a XGA xylosyltransferase. The protein was shown by expression of a fluorescent fusion protein in N. benthamiana to be localized in the Golgi vesicles as expected for a glycosyltransferase involved in pectin biosynthesis.
!~RES~! The locus of At5g33290 has an open reading frame made up of four exons (Figure 1 ). The gene structure is supported by isolation of full-length cDNA clones (e.g., GenBank accession number BX831739 originating from Genoscope, Centre National de Sequencage, Evry, France). The encoded protein of 500 amino acid residues is calculated to have a polypeptide molecular mass of 56.6 kD. The protein is predicted to be targeted to the secretory pathway and to have a signal anchor with a single transmembrane helix from residues 9 to 31. These features are typical for a Type II membrane protein. Sequence similarity to other CAZy Family 47 proteins suggests that the protein is an inverting glycosyltransferase. Inverting glycosyltransferases invert the configuration of the anomeric carbon in the nucleotide sugar substrate (i.e., they generate β-linkages with most nucleotide sugar substrates). The protein has four sites predicted by NetNGlyc to be N-glycosylated. Based on the data reported below, we designate the protein XYLOGALACTURONAN DEFICIENT1 (XGD1). [[FIGURE]] Two independent T-DNA insertion lines in XGD1 were obtained from the Syngenta SAIL collection and from SALK (Figure 1). The two mutant lines are designated xgd1-1 and xgd1-2. Homozygous lines were identified by PCR. For xgd1-1, PCR yielded a product of expected size consistent with location of the T-DNA as indicated in the database (Figure 1). However, in the case of xgd1-2, the insert proved to be located ∼400 bp downstream of the position reported by SALK. Consequently, the T-DNA insertion of xgd1-2 was concluded to be located 90 bp upstream of the stop codon of XGD1, as verified by sequencing. This insertion leads to substitution of the last 30 amino acid residues of the XGD1 protein (see Supplemental Figure 1 online) and hence alters the highly conserved C-terminal region of the protein. The insertion lines were investigated using real-time RT-PCR (Table 1 ). For xgd1-1, no transcript was detected, but for xgd1-2, the disruption of the gene did not lead to any significant destabilization of the xgd1-2 mRNA. Relative Transcript Level of the XGD1 Locus We analyzed the expression pattern of XGD1 in stems, adult leaves, juvenile leaves, and roots by real-time RT-PCR (Table 1). XGD1 is most highly expressed in adult leaves and at twice the level found in juvenile leaves. In stems and roots, the transcript level is 8.2 and 5.4%, respectively, compared with the level in adult leaves. These findings are in good agreement with data from publicly available array experiments, except that we found a lower expression in roots than reported in other experiments. Analysis of public array data (see Supplemental Figure 2 online) showed that expression of XGD1 is highly increased by biotic stresses, such as infection with Botrytis and Pseudomonas, and abiotic stresses, such as nutrient deficiency, whereas infection with Agrobacterium tumefaciens or nematodes decreases XGD1 expression. Furthermore, the expression is strongly increased by senescence and decreased by cytokinin (benzyladenine). Since Family 47 glycosyltransferases are likely to be involved in cell wall biosynthesis (CITATION), we determined the effect of insertional mutagenesis of XGD1 on the monosaccharide composition of cell wall material isolated from adult leaves obtained from xgd1-1 and xgd1-2 (Figure 2 ; typical chromatograms are shown in Supplemental Figure 3 online). A reduction of ∼25% in the xylose content was observed for both xgd1-1 and xgd1-2, whereas no other monosaccharides were significantly altered. The reduction in xylose in the xgd1 mutants was consistently observed in all experiments performed and varied from ∼15 to 30% between experiments. Neither the xgd1-1 plants nor the xgd1-2 plants displayed any visible difference in growth phenotypes compared with quartet (qrt) and Columbia-0 (Col-0), respectively. The xgd1-1 mutant is, like other mutants in the Syngenta SAIL collection, made in the qrt genetic background. Recently, qrt was shown to encode a pectin methylesterase, but it is primarily expressed in pollen grains and is not expressed in leaves and stems (CITATION). The qrt and Col-0 lines were indistinguishable in monosaccharide composition in the tissues investigated in this study and also did not differ in growth phenotype. Therefore, qrt is considered the wild type in this study. [[FIGURE]] Several cell wall polymers contain xylose to varying degrees, including xyloglucan, xylan, XGA, and RGII. A range of approaches were used to determine in which polymer xylose was reduced. Immunomicrodot assays using cell wall–specific antibodies (mAbs) were performed to probe the relative levels of galactan (mAb LM5), arabinan (mAb LM6), xyloglucan (mAb CCRC-M1), and xylan (mAb LM11) in a range of organs/tissues in the wild type (i.e., qrt) and xgd1-1. This analysis did not reveal any significant differences in the levels of the investigated polymers in any of the samples tested (data not shown). Although not extensively characterized, XGA is another xylose-containing polymer in Arabidopsis cell walls (CITATION). Presently, the amount of XGA in the walls cannot be accurately determined, but the study by CITATION showed that up to 7% of the pectin from leaves could be hydrolyzed by the specific enzyme XGA hydrolase. To identify the affected polymer in the mutant, we treated cell wall material from leaves with endopolygalacturonase and pectin methylesterase and analyzed the monosaccharide content in the extracted pectin fraction and in the remaining residue (Figure 3 ; typical chromatograms are shown in Supplemental Figure 4 online). This analysis demonstrated that there was no difference in the xylose content in the residue between the wild type (qrt) and xgd1-1. The extraction of pectin was equally efficient in both genotypes, with 62% of the rhamnose and 91% of the galacturonic acid released. The stochiometric Rha/GalA ratio in the pellets was near 1 in both the wild type and xgd1-1, indicating that a near to total extraction of HG and XGA was achieved, while approximately one-third of the RGI remained in the pellet. [[FIGURE]] To further investigate the pectin, we purified the high molecular mass fraction representing RGI and XGA from the released material. The monosaccharide composition analysis of the isolated RGI/XGA showed a substantial decrease from 3.8 to 1.2 mol % (i.e., percentage of total monosaccharide content on a molar basis) of xylose in the xgd1-1 mutant compared with the wild type (Table 2 ; typical chromatograms are shown in Supplemental Figure 5A online). Consistently, a 76% reduction of terminal xylose was observed in the same fraction (from 4.6 to 1.1 mol %; Table 2), clearly indicating a significant reduction of the xylose substituted HG (i.e., XGA). Monosaccharide analysis also indicated a reduction in GalA from 37.9 to 30.8%. This is in agreement with the reduced xylose assuming a Xyl/GalA ratio in XGA of ∼1:3. Notably, the monosaccharide and linkage analyses confirmed the absence of 2-Xyl, 4-Xyl, and Glc, proving that the RGI/XGA preparations did not contain any detectable hemicellulose contamination. To investigate linkage of uronic acids, we conducted a separate linkage analysis after reduction of uronic acids (typical chromatograms shown in Supplemental Figure 5B online). The procedure is not optimal for determining content of neutral sugars; therefore, the results were obtained independently. To more easily compare the data, they have been compounded into one table (Table 2). The data showed a 2.1 mol % decrease in the content of branched GalA residues, 3,4-GalA, in the mutant in agreement with the reduction in terminal xylose. Interestingly, the ratio of 2-Rha (non–side chain RGI residue) and 2,4-Rha (side chain containing RGI residue) was altered (Table 2). In the wild type (qrt), 35% of Rha was in the 2,4-Rha form, indicating that on average approximately every third rhamnose residue had a side chain. In the mutant, the 2,4-Rha constituted 45%. Hence, RGI of xgd1-1 contains a more highly substituted RGI chain. This is consistent with an increase in galactose in the RGI/XGA fraction (38% in the monosaccharide compositional analysis) and of 4-Gal and t-Gal in the linkage analysis (44 and 23% increase, respectively), suggesting an increase in pectic galactan in this enzyme solubilized fraction. Monosaccharide Composition and Linkage Analysis of RGI/XGA Isolated from Adult Leaves from the Wild Type (qrt) and xgd1-1 The highly decreased content of terminal xylose residues in pectin isolated from xgd1-1 indicated that XGA was the affected polymer. To specifically compare the presence of XGA in the cell wall of wild-type (qrt) and xgd1-1 plants, we used XGA hydrolase, a highly specific enzyme that has no detectable activity with HG or any other pectic polysaccharide besides XGA (CITATION). XGA hydrolase accepts xylosylated GalA residues in both −1 and +1 positions; hence, the product of XGA digestion with the enzyme is a mixture of xylogalacturonides and oligogalacturonides (CITATION). A pectin-enriched fraction from wild-type and xgd1-1 plants was treated with XGA hydrolase and subsequently analyzed by HPAEC-PAD and matrix-assisted laser-desorption ionization time of flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS) (Figure 4 ). Nine different oligosaccharides, including the isomer GalA2Xyl', could be identified in the enzymatically treated pectin fraction obtained from wild-type plants, whereas no oligosaccharides were detected from xgd1-1. Some XGA could also be detected in the residue after pectin extraction in the wild type, but no XGA-derived oligomers could be detected in xgd1-1 residue. As expected (CITATION), the main product from the wild type was GalA3Xyl followed by a significant formation of GalA, GalAXyl, GalA2Xyl, GalA4, and GalA5 and a minor production of GalA2Xyl2, GalA2Xyl', and GalA6. Although it cannot be excluded that XGA that is resistant to XGA hydrolase exists in xgd1-1, the XGA content in xgd1-1 is clearly reduced compared with the wild type. [[FIGURE]] A monoclonal antibody, LM8, with specificity for XGA was raised against a highly substituted form of XGA and has previously been described (CITATION). Immunolabeling of the wild type (qrt) and xgd1-1 was used to determine if this XGA epitope was affected in xgd1-1 (Figure 5 ). The LM8 XGA epitope has a highly restricted distribution in Arabidopsis and was only detected in roots (Figures 5A and 5B) and siliques (Figures 5C and 5D). LM8 binding was identical in these organs in qrt and xgd1-1. Our biochemical analysis indicated that XGA is abundant in leaves, and the lack of LM8 binding to this XGA may be because the XGA in leaves does not have a sufficient level of xylose substitution to be recognized by LM8. Labeling of leaves with the anti-HG mAb JIM5 and calcofluor, which stains β-linked glucans, indicated that HG levels and overall cellular anatomy were not affected in xgd1-1. Together with biochemical analyses, these data indicate that a less substituted form of XGA that is abundant in leaves is a likely product of XGD1 but that the highly substituted XGA epitope recognized by LM8 is not. [[FIGURE]] The identical wall phenotype in the two independent alleles xgd1-1 and xgd1-2 (Figure 2) strongly indicates that the lack of functional XGD1 protein is directly responsible for the decreased XGA content. To further substantiate this, we performed a complementation experiment. In xgd1-1 plants that were transformed with a construct carrying XGD1 under control of the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter (35S:XGD1), the reduced xylose content of the cell wall material was restored to the wild type level (Table 3 ). Transformation of qrt plants with the same construct had no effect on the monosaccharide composition. These experiments show that the XGD1 coding sequence can complement the xgd1 mutant phenotype. Furthermore, introduction of a construct expressing a recombinant XGD1 protein fused to a combined c-myc-6xHis affinity tag in its C-terminal end adding a total of 24 amino acids (35S:XGD1-Myc-6-His) also complemented the xgd1 phenotype (i.e., the xylose content was again restored to the wild type level) (Table 3). By contrast, complementation was not obtained when the xgd1-1 plants were expressing an N-terminally truncated version of the XGD1 protein lacking the first 160 amino acid residues comprising the signal anchor and part of the stem region (35S:ΔN-XGD1). The truncated version corresponds to cDNA clones with GenBank accession numbers AAK83577 and AAL62020, and the lack of complementation indicates that these clones are not full length. Complementation of the xgd1 Mutant Phenotype The wall phenotype of the T-DNA mutants indicated that XGD1 is involved in XGA biosynthesis. Given that glycosyltransferase Family 47 is known to contain inverting glycosyltransferases, the indication was that XGD1 would most likely be a XGA β-1,3-xylosyltransferase. To investigate this possibility, we expressed the 35S:XGD1 and 35S:XGD1-Myc-6-His constructs in N. benthamiana leaves by Agrobacterium-mediated transient expression. The transient expression leads to accumulation of substantial amounts of heterologous protein as shown by immunoblotting using anti-His-tag antibodies (see Supplemental Figure 6 online). Microsomes were prepared from leaves 4 d after infiltration and used for the glycosyltransferase assays. We tested activity using different NDP-14C-sugars as donor substrates and heat-treated microsomes prepared from noninfiltrated N. benthamiana leaves as acceptors (Figure 6A ). Microsomes expressing 35S:XGD1 showed highly increased activity transferring 14C-Xyl from UDP-14C-Xyl to polymeric products precipitated in 70% ethanol compared with control microsomes, whereas no significant change in activity was observed with UDP-14C-Glc, UDP-14C-Gal, or UDP-14C-GlcNAc. With UDP-14C-GlcA, we observed a small increase in activity compared with the control. However, the background activity from endogenous glycosyltransferases was very high with UDP-GlcA, and this makes it difficult to conclude whether there is any increased incorporation of GlcA in the presence of XGD1. The same is true to some extent with UDP-Gal. Thus, XGD1 fusion protein was actively expressed in N. benthamiana and showed xylosyltransferase activity transferring xylose onto endogenous oligosaccharides present in N. benthamiana microsomes. To investigate the nature of the products formed, we treated the products obtained with UDP-14C-Xyl with XGA hydrolase. As shown in Figure 6B, the majority of the ethanol-insoluble 14C-products that were synthesized using microsomes expressing 35S:XGD1 were released to an ethanol-soluble supernatant after treatment with XGA hydrolase. This indicates that the 14C-products synthesized by 35S:XGD1 were mainly XGA. 14C-products synthesized by control microsomes also released some radioactivity into an ethanol-soluble supernatant. This may be due to endogenous XGA xylosyltransferase activity and to a minor extent may also be due to release of unrelated 14C-materials coprecipitated with XGA but released together with XGA after hydrolase treatment. [[FIGURE]] Under the same assay condition, we also investigated whether pure oligogalacturonides with degree of polymerization of 12 to 14 could act as acceptors. Microsomes expressing 35S:XGD1 transferred 14C-Xyl from UDP-14C-Xyl to these acceptors, and synthesized 14C-products precipitated in 70% ethanol to a much higher extent than the control (Figure 6C). Analysis of the data by two-way ANOVA shows a significant effect of adding oligogalacturonides (P < 0.001) and of XGD1 versus control (P < 0.02). There was no significant effect of adding oligogalacturonides to the control reactions (t test, P > 0.05). Thus, XGD1 expressed in N. benthamiana also showed xylosyltransferase activity onto exogenous oligogalacturonide acceptors. An in-frame fusion of XGD1 and yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) was generated and transiently expressed in N. benthamiana leaves via Agrobacterium infiltration. Leaves expressing XGD1-YFP fusion protein accumulated the YFP signal in small, moving, oval dots (Figure 7B ), while YFP, when expressed without fusion, accumulated uniformly in cytosol and in nuclei (Figure 7A). The XGD1-YFP fusion protein was coexpressed with known marker proteins. Figures 7C and 7E show confocal images of a leaf coexpressing XGD1-YFP and GFP-HDEL (an endoplasmic reticulum [ER] marker), respectively, and Figure 7G shows the superimposition. It is noteworthy that XGD1-YFP and green fluorescent protein (GFP)-HDEL showed distinct distribution patterns, the former showing an interspersed dot distribution and the latter showing a uniform distribution along the cell periphery with spiderweb-like meshwork, which is characteristic of ER. Figures 7D and 7F show confocal images of a leaf coexpressing XGD1-YFP and STtmd-GFP (a Golgi marker; CITATION), respectively, and Figure 7H shows the superimposition of the two signals, showing near-perfect colocalization. The signals from the two proteins moved together, providing further evidence that the proteins were colocalized. Taken together, these results demonstrate that XGD1-YFP fusion protein localizes in the Golgi apparatus in N. benthamiana. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! All Arabidopsis thaliana lines used in this work are derived from ecotype Col-0. Seed of T-DNA insertion line SAIL 1175_H04 (xgd1-1) and the corresponding background line (qrt; referred to as the wild type when in comparison with xgd1-1) were obtained from Syngenta. T-DNA insertion line SALK_087620 (xgd1-2) was obtained from the Salk institute (CITATION). Plants were grown in peat at an 8-h photoperiod at 100 to 120 μmol photons m−2 s−1, 20°C, and 70% relative humidity and watered using tap water as necessary. Fertilizer was not used. Young leaves were harvested at the 10 to 12 leaf stage and adult leaves after ∼12 weeks of growth. To initiate bolting and synchronize stem growth, plants were shifted to a 16-h photoperiod after 8 weeks of growth in the 8-h photoperiod. Roots for real-time RT-PCR were obtained from plants grown hydroponically (CITATION). Roots for immunolabeling were obtained from 5-d-old seedlings grown vertically on Murashige and Skoog medium, pH 5.7, containing 1% sucrose and 0.8% bacto-agar (Difco). Protein targeting was predicted using TargetP (CITATION), signal peptide or signal anchor predictions were predicted using SignalP 3.0 (CITATION), transmembrane helices were predicted using TMHMM Server v. 2.0 (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TMHMM-2.0/; CITATION), and N-glycosylation sites were predicted using NetNGlyc (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/NetNGlyc/). In silico expression analysis and response viewer were performed using the Genevestigator data mining tool, which is based on publicly available microarray experiments (CITATION). Three out of the six closest homologs to XGD1 in Arabidopsis (At5g20260, At5g11130, At5g25310, and At3g42180) were re-annotated and aligned as described in Supplemental Methods 1 and Supplemental Figure 7 online. Genomic DNA was prepared as described by CITATION. xgd1-1 homozygous plants were identified by PCR using primers suggested by Syngenta (gene-specific primers 5′-GGGTTTAGCTGGGACGATTCAA-3′ and 5′-CCGACCTAACGTGGACGTAT-3′, insert-specific primer 5′-TAGCATCTGAATGTCATAACCAAT-3′). For xgd1-2, the T-DNA insert was reported to be located in the last exon of XGD1 ∼500 bp upstream from the stop codon according to the SIGnAL T-DNA Express Arabidopsis Gene Mapping Tool (http://signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/tdnaexpress; CITATION). However, when potential T-DNA mutant plants were screened by PCR using primers suggested by the Salk Institute (forward gene-specific primer 5′-TCAAGACGAATGAGTCGGAG-3′ and reverse gene-specific primer 5′-CCAAATTTTGTTTGGCTTGAA-3′, insert-specific primer, LBa1, 5′-TGGTTCACGTAGTGGGCCATCG-3′; Figure 1), an unexpected large insert product was obtained using the forward gene-specific primer for xgd1-2 in combination with the T-DNA insert-specific primer LBa1. This indicated that the true location of T-DNA insertion was in fact much further downstream in the XGD1 gene than initially identified. This hypothesis was verified by sequencing of the PCR product generated by the forward primer and LBa1 using sequencing primer 5′-CATTACCATTCAGTGATGTGC-3′. To be able to deduce the protein sequence of xgd1-2 (see Supplemental Figure 1 online), the 3′ end of the xgd1-2 mRNA was amplified by a nested PCR approach. First round of PCR was preformed with the primers 5′-CAAGTAAAAAAATTGTTATCAGGAAAAG-3′ (spanning exon 1 and exon 2) and 5′-TTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTV-3′ (V symbolizing C/A/G) and using xgd1-2 cDNA (prepared as below) as template. A successive nested PCR was then preformed using the primers 5′-CGCCTTTCATCAGAGTCAC-3′ (spanning exon 2 and exon 3) and 5′-TTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTV-3′. The resulting PCR product from the nested PCR was subsequently sequenced using the primers 5′-AGATCGACCCGAGAATGC-3′ (verifying the exon 3–exon 4 junction) and 5′-TTGTCTGTGTCCGAGTGG-3′ (sequencing the furthest 3′ part of the mRNA). Total RNA was isolated from roots, young leaves, adult leaves, stems, and flowers using the RNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen). cDNA was prepared from 1 μg of total RNA using the iScript cDNA synthesis Kit (Bio-Rad) in a total volume of 25 μL. One microliter was used for real-time RT-PCR amplification of XGD1 with gene-specific primers (5′-CCATGACTGGCACCAGACGT-3′ and 5′-TATCCTAGAAACAGGGATTTGTATGG-3′) using an ICycler Instrument (Bio-Rad) with the iQ SYBR Green Supermix kit for PCR (Bio-Rad) according to the manufacturer's instructions. The reactions were incubated at 96°C for 3 min to activate the hot start recombinant Taq DNA polymerase, followed by 50 cycles of 1 min at 96°C, 1 min at 60°C, and 1 min at 72°C. The specificity of the PCR amplification was checked with a heat dissociation protocol (from 65 to 95°C) following the final cycle of the PCR. The results obtained for the different samples analyzed were standardized to the polyubiquitin 10 RT-PCR product level using the primers 5′-GGCCTTGTATAATCCCTGATGAATAAG-3′ and 5′-AAAGAGATAACAGGAACGGAAACATAGT-3′. Cell wall material and subsequent RGI/XGA extraction was prepared from leaves as destarched alcohol-insoluble residue as previously described (CITATION). For RGI/XGA extraction and XGA endohydrolase digestion, the cell wall material was further phenol:acetic acid:water (2:1:1 v/v) treated as previously described (CITATION). Monosaccharide composition analysis was performed on alcohol-insoluble residue and RGI isolated from leaves using the high-performance anion exchange chromatography method previously described (CITATION). For glycosidic linkage analysis, isolated RGI was methylated using sodium hydroxide and methyl iodide in dimethyl sulfoxide (CITATION). For linkage analysis of carboxyl groups of pectin-derived GalA residues, the methylated pectin fraction was subsequently reduced with lithium triethylborodeuteride (Superdeuteride; Sigma-Aldrich) (CITATION). Partially methylated alditol acetates were generated as previously described (CITATION). Statistical analyses were always based on data obtained with multiple individual wall preparations, and the n values given in figure legends relate to the number of biological replicates. For the monosaccharide composition data, the within sample reproducibility was very high compared with the biological variation. Polymers were sequentially extracted from homogenized plant material using trans-1,2-diaminocyclohexane-N, N, N′, N′-tetraacetic acid, NaOH, and cadoxen (1,2-diaminoethane and cadmium oxide). These three solvents are known to solubilize pectins, noncellulosic polysaccharides, and cellulose, respectively (CITATION). Supernatants from the extractions were spotted onto nitrocellulose membrane using a microarray robot (Microgrid II; Genomic Solutions). Arrays were probed with monoclonal antibodies with specificity for galactan (LM5; CITATION), arabinan (LM6; CITATION), xyloglucan (CCRCM1; CITATION), and xylan (LM11; CITATION). Spot signals were scanned and converted to 16-bit grayscale TIFFs and then quantified by means of microarray analysis software (ImaGene 4.0; BioDiscovery). Fold changes in antibody binding were calculated from background-corrected spot signals. Treatment with XGA hydrolase was performed as described by CITATION. Alcohol-insoluble residue was extracted with phenol:acetic acid:water, saponified in 0.1 M sodium hydroxide for 24 h at 4°C, and subsequently neutralized with 0.1 M acetic acid. After neutralization, samples were dialyzed overnight against MilliQ water and freeze-dried. A pectin-enriched fraction was extracted at 4°C using 5 mM EDTA and 50 mM NaOH (CITATION). The pectin-enriched fraction and remaining residue was dialyzed overnight against MilliQ water followed by dialysis overnight against 50 mM NaOAc, pH 3.5, prior to treatment by XGH. XGA hydrolase from Aspergillus tubingensis was expressed heterologously in Aspergillus niger and purified as described (CITATION). Pectin-enriched fraction and residue from the wild type and xgd1-1 was subjected to digestion for 20 h at 30°C with 0.35 μg/mL of XGA hydrolase in 50 mM NaOAc, pH 3.5, and the degradation products were analyzed by HPAEC-PAD and MALDI-TOF MS as previously described (CITATION). Leaf material and siliques from 4-week-old xgd1-1 and qrt plants were placed in fixative (2% paraformaldehyde, 2.5% glutaraldehyde, and 0.1 M phosphate buffer, pH 7) and placed under vacuum for 30 min. The plant material was then left in fixative overnight at 4°C and washed twice in 0.1 M phosphate buffer, pH 7.0, for 30 min each time at 4°C. Samples were dehydrated in an ethanol series (30, 50, 70, 80, 90, and 100%) for 20 min each and then transferred to LR White resin (Hard Grade Acrylic Resin; London Resin Company) at 4°C for 24 h with two changes to allow the resin to infiltrate the tissue. The plant material was then placed in gelatin capsules and filled with LR White resin and polymerized at 60°C for 24 h. Transverse sections of leaf and silique material for both xgd1-1 and qrt were cut at a thickness of 3 μm with glass knives on a microtome (LKB Bromma 2218 Historange Microtome) and placed on diagnostic microscope slides (Erie Scientific) that were coated in Vectorbond reagent (SP-1800; Vector Laboratories). Resin-embedded sections of siliques and leaves and 5-d-old root tips from xgd1-1 and qrt plants for surface labeling were blocked for 1 h in 5% milk powder in PBS and then incubated with 10-fold dilutions of LM8 epitope specific for XGA. In addition, leaf resin-embedded sections were incubated with 10-fold dilution of JIM5 antibody for partially methylesterified HG. After washing the sections, the surface-labeled roots were incubated with 100-fold dilution of fluorescein isothiocyanate (Sigma-Aldrich) conjugated secondary antibody, and leaf sections were counterstained for 5 min with Calcofluor White M2R fluorochrome (fluorescent brightener 28; Sigma-Aldrich; 20 mM in phosphate buffer, pH 8) to detect the presence of cellulose. After washing with PBS, the sections were mounted in a glycerol/PBS based antifade solution (Citifluor AF1; Agar Scientific) and observed on an epifluorescence microscope (Axioplan; Zeiss). All constructs were generated on the basis of the XGD1-cDNA clone MPIZp2001I033Q2 (RZPD Deutsches Ressourcenzentrum für Genomforschung, Berlin, Germany) and by the use of Phusion polymerase (Finnzymes). The XGD1 coding region was amplified using forward primer 5′-GTCCGGAGCTCATGGCTGCTCCAAGATC-3′ (SacI underlined) and reverse primer 5′-GACATGCATGCCTATGTACCAAGCCTAAGATTAAG-3′ (SphI underlined). Alternatively, At5g33290 has been annotated to encode a soluble protein that is 160 amino acids shorter than the N terminus compared with the above annotation. This version of the gene was amplified using forward primer 5′-GTCCGGAGCTCATGAATCGTTTTAAGGTGTG-3′ together with the same reverse primer as above. The PCR products were cloned as a SacI/SphI fragment under control of the CaMV 35S promoter and terminator in pPS48 (CITATION), resulting in pJJ28 and pJJ30, respectively. A fusion protein was generated by adding a tag to the C-terminal end of the XGD1 protein. This construct was generated by inserting the c-myc-6xHis cassette from the pPICZαA plasmid (Invitrogen) into pPS48 as a SacI/SphI fragment. This fragment was amplified using the following primers: 5′-GTCCGGAGCTCGCGGAACAAAAACTCATCTCAGAAG-3′ (SacI underlined) and 5′-GACATGCATGCGCAAATGGCATTCTGACATCC-3′ (SphI underlined). The complete XGD1 coding region without stop codon was inserted as a SacI/SacI fragment generated by the forward primer described above and the reverse primer 5′-GTCCGGAGCTCTGTACCAAGCCTAAGATTAAG-3′ (SacI underlined), resulting in pJJ29. Insert and vector-insert junctions were sequenced, and subsequently the XbaI fragment of pJJ28, pJJ29, and pJJ30 containing the CaMV 35S promoter, insert, and the CaMV 35S terminator was transferred to pPZP221 (CITATION), resulting in p35S:XGD1, p35S:XGD1-Myc-6-His, and p35S:ΔN-XGD1, respectively. qrt and xgd1-1 plants were transformed with empty pPZP221 vector or with the vectors containing the different 35S:XGD1-versions by Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated transformation using the strain C58C1 pGV3850 and the floral dip method (CITATION). Seeds were germinated for 2 weeks on Murashige and Skoog medium containing 100 μg/mL gentamycin sulfate, and surviving seedlings were subsequently transferred to soil and grown as described above. After 8 weeks on soil, full-grown rosette leaves were harvested and used to prepare total cell wall alcohol-insoluble residue for determination of monosaccharide composition. The full-length XGD1 was amplified from the plasmid pJJ29 using the following primers: NT01, 5′-GGCTTAAUATGGCTGCTCCAAGATCAAG-3′, and NT02, 5′-GGTTTAAUCCTGTACCAAGCCTAAGATTAAGTC-3′, in which the underlined oligonucleotides were engineered to provide USER cloning sites (CITATION). The fragments were inserted into the unique USER site in pCAMBIA330035SuYFP in frame with the downstream YFP (CITATION). The previously described constructs containing the in-frame fusions STtmd-GFP and GFP-HDEL were used as markers for Golgi apparatus and ER, respectively (CITATION, CITATION). Agrobacterium C58C1 pGV3850 was transformed with each construct by electroporation and was selected for resistance against kanamycin (50 μg/mL). For transient transformation of Nicotiana benthamiana, the bacteria were grown over night in Luria-Bertani (LB) medium containing 10 mM MES and 20 μM acetosyringone. The bacterial cells were harvested by centrifugation and resuspended in a buffer containing 10 mM MES, 10 mM MgCl2, and 100 μM acetosyringone (OD600 = 0.05) and allowed to stand at room temperature for 2 to 3 h. Leaves of the wild-type N. benthamiana (6 weeks old, grown in greenhouse at 28°C/day and 18°C/night with 16 h photoperiod) were infiltrated with the bacterial cell suspensions using 2.5-mL syringes. Observations of sections of leaves were performed 24 to 48 h after infiltration. The confocal laser scanning microscope (TCS SP2; Leica Microsystems) was used to sequentially monitor GFP and YFP signals. The excitation and detection wavelengths for GFP and YFP were as follows: 488 and 514 nm for excitation, and 495 to 510 nm and 550 to 593 nm for detection, respectively. Leaves from 3-week-old wild-type N. benthamiana were used for Agrobacterium-mediated transient expression of two versions of XGD1 constructs (35S:XGD1 and 35S:XGD1-Myc-6-His). To facilitate high expression of recombinant protein, strains carrying the XGD1 constructs were coinfiltrated with a strain carrying p19, encoding p19 protein, a viral protein specifically inhibiting posttranscriptional gene silencing by the plant (CITATION). Agrobacterium C58C1 pGV3850 strains carrying the plasmids were grown overnight in LB medium containing appropriate antibiotics (p35S:XGD1 and p35S:XGD1-Myc-6-His: 100 μg/mL rifampicillin and 75 μg/mL spectomycine; p19: 100 μg/mL rifampicillin, 50 μg/mL kanamycin, 5 μg/mL tetracycline). The bacterial cells were suspended in a buffer as described above except that the concentration was higher (OD600 = 2.0). Prior to infiltration, the bacterial suspensions were diluted or combined as follows: for control, 1/4 (v/v) of the strain carrying p19 in a solution of OD600 = 2.0 and 3/4 (v/v) buffer was combined; for XGD1 expression, 1/4 (v/v) of the strain carrying p19 and 1/4 (v/v) of the strain carrying either p35S:XGD1 or p35S:XGD1-Myc-6-His, all strains in a solution of OD600 = 2.0, and 1/2 (v/v) buffer were combined. Four days after infiltration, the leaves were harvested, and microsomes were prepared according to the method described by CITATION with some modifications. The leaves were extracted in 50 mM potassium phosphate, pH 6.0, 0.4 M sucrose, 100 mM sodium ascorbate, 1 mM PMSF, and protein inhibitor cocktail (25 mL/g fresh weight complete tablets; Roche Applied Sciences). After the first centrifugation at 1000g for 10 min, the supernatant was centrifuged at 100,000g for 1 h. Sedimented microsomes were suspended in 50 mM potassium phosphate, pH 8.0, 1 mM EDTA, 1 mM DTT, and 10% (v/v) glycerol to a protein concentration of ∼10 mg/mL. For xylosyltransferase assay, the microsomes were first treated for 5 min with 0.3% (v/v) Triton X-100. Then, 10 μL of the Triton X-100–solubilized microsomes were incubated in 40 mM potassium phosphate, pH 8.0, 10 mM MnCl2, 100 μM (370 Bq) UDP-14C-xylose (or other UDP-14C-sugar as indicated in the figure legends) in the presence of acceptor, which was either 10 μL microsomes from noninfiltrated N. benthamiana pretreated at 90°C for 20 min or oligogalacturonide mixture of DP5-10 and DP12-14. Preparation of oligogalacturonides has been described previously (CITATION). After incubation at 28°C for 4 to 16 h, polysaccharide materials were precipitated in cold 70% (v/v) ethanol in the presence of 0.1 mg dextran as a carrier, and the samples were left at −20°C for 30 min prior to centrifugation at 13,000g for 30 min. The pellet was washed three times with prechilled 70% (v/v) ethanol and scintillation counted or further treated with XGA hydrolase. For XGA hydrolase treatment, the pellet was dissolved in 50 μL of 50 mM sodium acetate, pH 3.5, and 0.02% (v/v) NaN3. XGA hydrolase (35 ng protein) was added, and the samples were incubated for 16 h at 28°C. Prechilled ethanol was added to 70% (v/v), and the samples were left at −20°C for 30 min prior to centrifugation at 13,000g for 30 min. Radioactivity released to the supernatant and remaining in the pellet was analyzed by scintillation counting. UDP-14C-sugars were obtained from Perkin-Elmer NEN and had the following specific activities: UDP-14C-GlcA, 6.6711 GBq/mmol; UDP-14C-Gal, 9.5 GBq/mmol; UDP-14C-Xyl, 5.6166 GBq/mmol; UDP-14C-Glc, 11.174 GBq/mmol; UDP-14C-GlcNAc, 10.656 GBq/mmol. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: At5g33290 (Arabidopsis Genome Initiative annotation for XGD1), BX831739 (full-length cDNA clone for XGD1), and AAK83577 and AAL62020 (partial cDNA clones for XGD1). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Multiple Protein Sequence Alignment of C Termini of CAZy Glycosyltransferase Family 47 Subgroup C and xgd1-2. Supplemental Figure 2. Response of XGD1 Transcript Levels to Different Treatments. Supplemental Figure 3. Typical Chromatograms for Monosaccharide Composition Analysis of Cell Wall Material. Supplemental Figure 4. Typical Chromatograms for Monosaccharide Composition Analysis in Extracted Pectin. Supplemental Figure 5. Typical Chromatograms for Monosaccharide Composition and Glycosidic Linkage Analysis of RGI/XGA. Supplemental Figure 6. Immunoblotting of Heterologously Expressed XGD1. Supplemental Figure 7. Reannotation of CAZy Glycosyltransferase Family 47 Subgroup C. Supplemental Figure 8. Monosaccharide Composition Analysis of Cell Wall Material from Insertional Mutants in Homologs of XGD1. Supplemental Methods 1. Reannotation of CAZy Glycosyltransferase Family 47 Subgroup C. Supplemental Data Set 1. Text File Corresponding to Alignment in Supplemental Figure 7.
