!~ABS~! The SENSITIVE TO FREEZING2 (SFR2) gene has an important role in freezing tolerance in Arabidopsis thaliana. We show that homologous genes are present, and expressed, in a wide range of terrestrial plants, including species not able to tolerate freezing. Expression constructs derived from the cDNAs of a number of different plant species, including examples not tolerant to freezing, are able to complement the freezing sensitivity of the Arabidopsis sfr2 mutant. In Arabidopsis the SFR2 protein is localized to the chloroplast outer envelope membrane, as revealed by the analysis of transgenic plants expressing SFR2 fusions to GFP, by confocal microscopy, and by the immunological analysis of isolated chloroplasts treated with thermolysin protease. Moreover, the chloroplasts of the sfr2 mutant show clear evidence of rapid damage after a freezing episode, suggesting a role for SFR2 in the protection of the chloroplast.
!~RES~! Initial analysis of EST sequences in the NCBI database indicated that numerous species potentially produce SFR2-like proteins. These EST clones were from a wide range of plant species, including both angiosperms, representing dicotyledonous and monocotyledonous species, as well as gymnosperms. We chose a representative set from which to isolate full-length cDNA clones. Examples were selected from a gymnosperm (Pinus taeda) as well as from both dicotyledonous (Glycine max and Solanum esculentum) and moncotyledonous (Oriza sativa and Zea mays) species. Included in this set are species regarded as freezing sensitive (Z. mays, O. sativa and S. esculentum), as well freezing-tolerant examples. In the case of O. sativa, we were able to confirm the gene sequence using information from the rice genome project. Analysis of the proteins encoded by the isolated cDNAs showed a high degree of similarity between all of the selected proteins (Fig. 1). Homology was strongest in the central region of the protein. The active-site peptide motifs (TFNEP and I/VTENG) are fully conserved in AtSFR2, LeSFR2, GmSFR2 and PtSFR2, and only differ in OsSFR2 and ZmSFR2 by the substitution of Ile or Val, respectively, for Thr in the TFNEP motif. The N- and C-termini of the proteins are more divergent; however, the N-terminus carries a stretch of 11 amino acids (FFFGLATAPAH), at position 61 in AtSFR2, which is perfectly conserved in all SFR2-like sequences. The similarity of the SFR2-like proteins to the Arabidopsis SFR2 protein, and the conservation of the active site motifs, suggest that the catalytic function is likely to be conserved. [[FIGURE]] In order to assess the phylogenetic relationships of SFR2-like proteins, we carried out searches of the sequenced genomes of simple plant species. Analysis of the genome sequences of the eukaryotic alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii and the oxygenic prokaryote Gloeobacter violaceus identified genes with the potential to encode proteins with only weak similarity to SFR2, whereas the genomes of the red algae Cyanidioschyzon merolae and the marine diatom Thalassiosira pseudonana did not contain genes with the potential to produce SFR2-like proteins. The genes identified in C. reinhardtii and G. violaceus were more similar to other members of the Arabidopsis β-glycosidase gene family than they were to the SFR2 gene, indicating that they were unlikely to represent SFR2-like genes. Previous phylogenetic analysis has demonstrated that the SFR2 protein is uniquely divergent from other members of the 48-gene β-glycosidase gene family in Arabidopsis (CITATION). A recent characterization of β-glycosidases in rice has also demonstrated that the relevant SFR2-like gene has low sequence similarity to other β-glycosidases in this species, and is more similar to the Arabidopsis SFR2 gene (CITATION). Phylogenetic analysis of putative SFR2-like proteins (Fig. 2) shows that they form a distinct clade, and that they are different from both the other Arabidopsis β-glycosidases and the most similar proteins encoded by a number of sequenced simple plant genomes. The lack of a homologous sequence within the cyanobacteria and simple plant species suggests that the SFR2 gene is not likely to be derived from the endosymbiotic bacterial genome associated with the development of the chloroplast. [[FIGURE]] The presence of genes encoding proteins with high similarity to the Arabidopsis SFR2 in species that are not freezing tolerant, suggests a role for the protein that is separate from its putative function in freeze protection. An obvious question is whether SFR2-like genes from freezing-sensitive species are able to complement the Arabidopsis sfr2 mutation. In order to test this, cDNA clones encoding the SFR2-like proteins from G. max, O. sativa and P. taeda were cloned into a plant expression vector, where their expression was mediated by the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. These constructs were used to transform the sfr2-i2 T-DNA-tagged allele, which has previously been shown not to produce SFR2 protein (CITATION). Surprisingly, the SFR2-like sequences from both freezing-tolerant (P. taeda) and freezing-sensitive (G. max and O. sativa) species were able to functionally complement the freezing-sensitivity lesion in Arabidopsis (Fig. S1). No differences, either qualitative or quantitative, were observed with regard to the ability of constructs from different species to complement the sfr2 phenotype. An interesting aspect of the sfr2 phenotype is that leaf order dependent freezing sensitivity, which is found in wild-type Arabidopsis (CITATION), is preserved. As with wild-type plants, younger leaves and meristematic regions are more able to resist freezing than mature leaves in the sfr2 mutant. In sfr2 at temperatures below −7°C, the whole plant including the meristematic region is killed, whereas at more moderate freezing temperatures (above −6.5°C), the younger leaves and meristematic regions usually survive the freezing regime, even though mature leaves are killed, and the plant is able to recover (Fig. S2). Nevertheless, the temperature at which damage is caused to both young and mature tissues of sfr2 is higher (i.e. is less cold) when compared with wild-type plants. At freezing temperatures below −7.0°C sfr2 plants are killed, whereas only the mature leaves of wild-type plants are damaged (Fig. S2). As proof that the β-glycosidase activity of the AtSFR2 protein is required for freeze protection, an active site knock-out was engineered by site-directed mutagenesis. The Glu267 residue in AtSFR2, which acts as the acid/base catalyst in the substrate hydrolysis reaction, and belongs to the highly conserved peptide motif TFNEP of the active site of Family-1 β-glycosidases, was altered to a Gly267. Glycine, a small uncharged amino acid, located in the active site pocket, is unlikely to modify the tertiary or quaternary structure of AtSFR2. CITATION previously demonstrated the applicability of this method when precisely defining the function of the Glu residue in the TFNEP active site of Agrobacterium faecalisβ-glucosidase. The full-length AtSFR2G267E construct, with expression driven by the 35S promoter, was transformed into sfr2i2 mutant, and its expression was verified using anti-SFR2 antibody. The construct was not able to complement the freezing sensitivity, whereas a construct identical except for the G267E mutation was able to complement freezing sensitivity (Fig. 3). This suggests that β-glycosidase activity is essential for the freezing tolerance role of the Arabidopsis protein, and presumably also for the other SFR2-like proteins able to complement the freezing lesion. [[FIGURE]] In order to investigate a possible role for SFR2, the intracellular localization of the protein was investigated using GFP constructs. In silico analysis suggested the presence of an N-terminal signal peptide, targeting the protein to the secretory pathway (CITATION), whereas proteomics-based investigations have identified the SFR2 protein in the chloroplast outer envelope fraction of both Arabidopsis (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) and Pisum sativum (CITATION). Using Gateway technology, a clone comprising a full-length copy of the SFR2 gene (minus the stop codon) fused to EGFP was constructed with the clone under the transcriptional regulation of the 35S promoter. This clone was used to generate stable transformants in wild-type Arabidopsis and the two available SFR2 mutants, the original mutant carrying a point-mutation (sfr2-1) and the T-DNA-tagged allele (sfr2-i2; CITATION). Both mutant alleles of SFR2 were complemented by this construct, and their freezing tolerance was restored (data not shown). The intracellular localization of the tagged protein was investigated using confocal microscopy. Control constructs showed the soluble EGFP to have a cytoplasmic location (Fig. 4a,b). By contrast, the tagged SFR2 protein, confirming the proteomics-based studies, showed a pattern associated with localization to the chloroplast envelope (Fig. 4c,d). No differences in the localization of SFR2 were observed when wild-type or mutant plants were transformed, or when warm- or cold-grown plants were examined. Fluorescence was most easily detected in the chloroplasts within stomatal guard cells. Interestingly, an unusual phenotype was associated with transformation using the SFR2:GFP construct: the chloroplasts appear bunched together (compare panels b and c in Figure 4). This aggregation of chloroplasts seems to be a product of the GFP construct, as expression of the SFR2 protein alone directed by the same promoter did not lead to such a chloroplast phenotype (data not shown). It is possible that the addition of GFP causes the C-terminal region to face into the cytosol where GFP–GFP interactions cause aggregation of the chloroplasts. [[FIGURE]] To further investigate the mechanism of targeting of the SFR2 protein to the chloroplast, we investigated whether the N-terminal region is sufficient to target a passenger protein to the organelle. A new construct in which only the first 31 N-terminal amino acids of the SFR2 protein were fused to GFP showed the same chloroplast envelope localization pattern (Fig. 4e,f). Fluorescence was considerably stronger than with the full-length SFR2 construct, and aggregation of chloroplasts was less pronounced. The localization was again specific to the chloroplast envelope, suggesting that the N-terminal region of SFR2 is sufficient to direct the protein to this location. In order to confirm the localization of SFR2, and to establish its position in the chloroplast envelope system, we used immunoblot analysis with purified chloroplasts and an anti-SFR2 antibody directed against the C terminus of the SFR2 protein (the antibody was raised against residues 514–622/end of AtSFR2) (CITATION). This confirmed the localization of SFR2 to the purified chloroplast fraction (Fig. 5). Treatment of the isolated chloroplasts with thermolysin protease before analysis showed that SFR2 is partially sensitive to the protease, and produced a band of reduced size. This implies that the SFR2 protein is localized in the chloroplast outer envelope membrane (where it is partially accessible to the protease), and that its C-terminus, which is recognized by the antibody, is protected from digestion by its integration into or across the membrane, where thermolysin cannot penetrate (CITATION). Thermolysin digestion of in vitro-translated SFR2 protein shows that, in the absence of such native membrane association, SFR2 is fully susceptible to thermolysin, and that the protected fragment of the native protein is not the result of a protease-resistant domain (Fig. 5). The similar molecular weight of the in vitro synthesized protein to the endogenous SFR2 protein in chloroplasts suggests that there is no significant post-translational modification of the protein, and that there is unlikely to be a cleavable targeting sequence. Control western blots, using Tic22, localized to the intermembrane space, and two outer envelope proteins (atToc159 and atToc33) showed that the protease behaved as expected in these experiments. [[FIGURE]] The localization of the SFR2 protein to the chloroplast outer envelope suggested a possible role in the protection of the chloroplast. In order to investigate this possibility, transmission electron microscopy was used to investigate cellular damage in sfr2. Comparison of cold-acclimated (10-day cold treatment) plants showed no differences between sfr2 and wild-type plants (Fig. 6a,b). Material collected from plants 3 h after their removal from freezing conditions showed clear differences between wild-type and sfr2 plants. Cells of wild-type plants were not different in appearance to those before freezing (Fig. 6e), and chloroplasts had a normal appearance (Fig. 6f). The cells of sfr2, however, were clearly damaged. The tonoplast appeared disrupted, and chloroplasts were present throughout the cell volume (Fig. 6g). Examination of the chloroplasts showed that they were damaged: although thylakoid membranes could be seen, they were loosely packed within the chloroplast (Fig. 6h). It is clear that 3 h after removal from freezing conditions, cells of sfr2 are badly damaged, as are the chloroplast of these cells. In order to obtain a clearer picture of the nature of the damage in sfr2, further examinations were carried out on plants just 1 h after removal from freezing conditions. Many cells were already similar in appearance to those observed after 3 h, with damaged chloroplasts dispersed throughout the cell volume. However, there were cells (approximately 25%) that clearly had damaged chloroplasts (Fig. 6d), but still appeared to have an intact tonoplast that restricted the chloroplasts to the periphery of the cell (Fig. 6c). This suggests that the earliest signs of damage are to the chloroplast, and that chloroplast damage is not a product of the release of the vacuole contents following tonoplast damage. Tonoplast disruption may be a result of direct contact with the compromised chloroplast envelope, or occur through the release of toxic components from the damaged chloroplast. These early indications of chloroplast damage suggest a putative role for the SFR2 protein in the protection of this organelle. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana sfr2-1 and sfr2-i2 were grown as previously described (CITATION). G. max was kindly provided by Dr Edwards (University of Durham, UK), O. sativa was kindly provided by Dr Chantereau (CIRAD, France) and P. taeda was generously provided by Dr Campbell (University of Toronto, Canada). Plant growth conditions and freeze testing was carried out as previously described (CITATION). For plant transformation, plasmid derived from pB7WG2 and pCAMBIA were transferred to Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101/pM90 by electroporation. Plants were transformed by the floral-dip method (CITATION) and transformants were selected on compost by spraying with a 250 mg l−1 solution of the herbicide Challenge 60 (AgrEvo; Bayer CropScience, http://www.bayercropscience.com) or by growth on plates containing an appropriate antibiotic. The coding sequence of the full-length SFR2 gene was amplified using the primers 5′-CACCATGGAATTATTCGCATTGTTA-3′ and 5′-GTCAAAGGGTGAGGCTAAAG-3′, and the N-terminal 93-bp fragment was amplified using the same forward primer and 5′-GCGACGGAAACGAGAGTAG-3′. The PCR products were cloned into the pENTR/D-TOPO® vector (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com), from where they were transferred to an Agrobacterium binary vector pK7FWG2 (CITATION) using Gateway LR Clonase II Enzyme Mix (Invitrogen). To assess the localization of GFP, the coding sequence of GFP from pK7FWG2 (CITATION) was cloned into pB7WG2 (CITATION), where GFP was expressed under the control of the 35S promoter. In order to observe fluorescence, segments of transformed leaves (∼0.5 cm2) were cut using a razor blade, and were mounted in water for imaging. Fluorescence was analysed using a Bio-Rad radiance 2100 confocal microscope (Bio-Rad, http://www.bio-rad.com) using the excitation from a 488-nm Argon laser and from a 543-nm HeNe laser. GFP fluorescence was observed using a 560-nm dichroic filter and a 485–545-nm bandpass emission filter. Chlorophyll autofluorescence was observed using a 560-nm dichroic mirror and a 600-nm long-pass emission filter. Images were generated using the Kalman frame averaging filter on four accumulations. Images were processed using Photoshop CS2 software (Adobe, http://www.adobe.com). Freezing tests were carried out as previously described (CITATION). Following cold acclimation leaves were collected for pre-freeze observations, and the plants were then transferred to a freezer. Following removal from freezing conditions, plants were allowed to recover at room temperature (21°C) in the dark. Leaves were collected 1 and 3 h after removal from the freezing apparatus. Leaf samples were collected from three independent plants for each time point and genotype. Leaf samples (1 mm2) were fixed in 3% glutaraldehyde in 0.1 m phosphate buffer, pH 7.2, for 1 h. Samples were washed in buffer (twice), and were then fixed in 1% aqueous osmium tetroxide for 1 h. They were then washed with distilled water (twice), and then dehydrated through an ethanol series. Samples were infiltrated with 50:50 absolute alcohol : Spurr resin overnight, and were then infiltrated in pure resin for 6 h, before being transferred to fresh resin, and then polymerized overnight at 60°C. Sections approximately 90-nm thick were collected and post-stained in 1% alcoholic uranyl acetate for 20 min, followed by Reynold’s lead citrate for 5 min, and were examined in a Hitachi H7000 TEM at 75 kV. Total RNA from S. esculentum, G. max, O. sativa, Z. mays and A. thaliana was extracted from 100 mg of fresh leaves using the Plant RNA easy kit (Qiagen, http://www.qiagen.com) following the manufacturer’s recommendations. Total RNA from P. taeda was extracted from 2 to 3 g of pine needles according to the method described by CITATION. The Thermoscript RNase H-reverse transcriptase kit (Invitrogen) was used, according to the manufacturer’s instructions, utilizing 500 ng of total RNA, to produce cDNA. Freshly synthesized cDNA was used as the template in PCR reactions to amplify full-length SFR2-like cDNAs. For O. sativa, Z. mays and G. max, primers were designed in the 5′ untranslated region (UTR) and the 3′ UTR of the SFR2-like sequences obtained after BLAST searches against the AtSFR2 protein sequence: for O. sativa the information was obtained from a sequenced BAC clone (AC13590), and for Z. mays and G. max from two EST clones (BM381643 and BI992660, and AW75621 and AI966213, respectively) covering the 5′ and 3′ ends of the gene. The isolation of full-length SFR2-like sequence from S. esculentum and P. taeda was performed using the 5′/3′ RACE strategy (CITATION), following the instructions of the 5′/3′ RACE kit (Roche, http://www.roche.com). Sequence information obtained from EST clones covering the 3′ regions of S. esculentum (AW932205) and P. taeda (BG319035) were used to design race primers to amplify the 5′ ends of the genes. New primers designed using the 5′ and 3′ ends then allowed the amplification of full-length clones. Details of all primers used are available on request. All full-length SFR2-like sequences were amplified with either Pfu polymerase (Promega, http://www.promega.com) or KoD Hifi DNA polymerase (Novagen, http://www.merckbiosciences.co.uk/html/NVG/home.html). PCR products were cloned into pGEM-T easy vector (Promega) and were then sequenced. For complementation experiments, OsSFR2 cDNA was first transferred to pENTR4 (Invitrogen) and then transferred into a GATEWAY™ plant expression vector pB7WG2 (CITATION) using the Gateway® LR Clonase Enzyme Mix (Invitrogen). PtSFR2 and GmSFR2 cDNAs were transferred, by restriction digestion and ligation, to pCAMBIA 1305.1 (CAMBIA, http://www.cambia.org). In order to introduce a mutation in the AtSFR2 cDNA, four primers were designed, two of which are flanking, and two of which cover and introduce the point mutation into the amplified material. Two independent PCRs were performed using Pfu polymerase (Promega) to generate the two halves of the final product. The template used in both PCRs was a plasmid containing the full-length AtSFR2 cDNA. Primers for the first PCR were 5′-CATTTAATGGACCCCATATCTTCAC-3′ and 5′-CTGGTGACCCTAGTCAAAGGGTGAGGCTAAAG-3′, and for the second PCR were 5′-GTGAAGATATGGGGTCCATTAAATG-3′ and 5′-TTCACCTGCCGGCCATGGAATTATTCGCATTGTT-3′. PCR products were gel purified using a Gel Purification Kit (Qiagen). Products were combined in a third PCR using two flanking oligonucleotides: 5′-CTCTAAAAATGTTGCCGCGT-3′ and 5′-CACACTGCTTCCTGTCCGTA-3′. The final product AtSFR2.G267E was then cloned into the pGEM-T easy vector, and was sequenced before transfer to an Agrobacterium binary vector. Total protein from 5-week-old plants was isolated using the method described by CITATION. Equal quantities (20 μg) of protein were loaded per lane and separated by SDS-PAGE before transfer onto polyvinylidene difluoride membrane by electro-blot transfer. Chloroplasts isolation and thermolysin treatments were as described previously (CITATION). Transcription/translation was performed in a coupled system using rabbit reticulocyte lysate and T7 RNA polymerase (TNT T7 Quick for PCR DNA; Promega) containing [35S]methionine (CITATION). Anti-SFR2 antibody, raised against a peptide comprising amino acids 514–622, was used as described by CITATION. Anti-atToc159 was as described by CITATION, and was raised against the A domain of the protein. Anti-atToc33 was raised against a C-terminal peptide, and was used as described by CITATION. Anti-Tic22 polyclonal antibody was raised against a synthetic atTic22-IV-specific peptide (CIERELSKYTRASRGD) by Eurogentec (http://www.eurogentec.com). Amino acid sequences were aligned by ClustalX (CITATION), and were manually inspected for obvious irregularities. All positions with one or more gaps in the alignment were removed from the dataset to be used for phylogenetic analysis, as well as regions flanking gaps where alignment was unreliable. This resulted in a dataset containing 230 amino acid positions. Phylogenetic analyses were carried out using PAUP*4.10b (CITATION). Neighbour-joining trees were constructed using the BioNJ method using total-character distances. Bootstrap analyses with 1000 replicates were used to assess the relative support for the tree topology. Sequences used in the bioinformatic analysis are the most similar procaryotic β-glycosidases: Thermosphaera aggregans (AAD43138) and Thermosphaera sp. (CAA94187), A. thaliana SFR2, and sequences from O. sativa SFR2 homologue (AJ491323), G. max SFR2 homologue (AM238658), S. esculentum SFR2 homologue (AM238659), Z. mays SFR2 homologue (AM238660) and P. taeda SFR2 homologue (AM238661).
