!~ABS~! Eukaryotic elongation factor 1-alpha (eEF1A) was identified as an interactor of Turnip mosaic virus (TuMV) RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) and VPg-protease (VPg-Pro) using tandem affinity purification and/or in vitro assays. Subcellular fractionation experiments revealed that the level of eEF1A substantially increased in membrane fractions upon TuMV infection. Replication of TuMV occurs in cytoplasmic membrane vesicles, which are induced by 6K-VPg-Pro. Confocal microscopy indicated that eEF1A was included in these vesicles. To confirm that eEF1A was found in replication vesicles, we constructed an infectious recombinant TuMV that contains an additional copy of the 6K protein fused to the green fluorescent protein (GFP). In cells infected with this recombinant TuMV, fluorescence emitted by 6KGFP was associated with cytoplasmic membrane vesicles that contained VPg-Pro, the eukaryotic initiation factor (iso) 4E, the poly(A)-binding protein, the heat shock cognate 70-3 protein, and eEF1A. These results suggest that TuMV-induced membrane vesicles host at least three plant translation factors in addition to the viral replication proteins.
!~RES~! The tandem affinity purification (TAP) tag approach followed by mass spectroscopy and/or immunoblotting analyses provide a powerful approach for identifying components of protein complexes ( [bib19 bib28 bib42] ). The TAP tag is composed of a Protein A domain that binds IgG-agarose, a TEV protease site for protease-mediated cleavage of the fusion protein from the IgG-agarose, and a calmodulin-binding protein (CBP) domain for reversible calcium-dependent binding to calmodulin (CAM)–agarose. We took advantage of our existing A. thaliana NTAPi-RdRp and NTAPi-green fluorescent protein (GFP) T 4 lines to investigate eEF1A as a potential cellular interactor of the viral protein. The NTAPi-RdRp line expresses TuMV RdRp with a TAP-tag fused at its N-terminal end while the NTAPi-GFP line expresses a TAP-tagged GFP protein ( [bib16] ). To investigate the interaction between RdRp and the host eEF1A, protein extracts from 3-week-old RdRp-NTAPi A. thaliana plants were incubated with IgG-coated beads and absorbed proteins were then released by protease cleavage of the Protein A moiety. A second affinity purification step was performed by incubating the protease-released proteins with calmodulin-coated resin in presence of calcium and elution was performed using an EGTA-containing buffer. As a control for the TAP procedure, extracts from NTAPi-GFP were subjected to the same purification strategy as RdRp-NTAPi transgenic plants. The eluted material was separated by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and analyzed by immunoblotting using anti-CBP and anti-eEF1A antibodies. RdRp and GFP TAP fusions were detected at the expected molecular masses of ~ 65 and 32 kDa respectively following IgG-agarose and CAM–agarose chromatography ( [fig1] ). We then investigated the presence of eEF1A in the NTAPi-RdRp extract. Immunoblotting using a rabbit serum directed against eEF1A confirmed the co-purification of eEF1A with the viral protein in the NTAPi-RdRp but not in the NTAPi-GFP extract ( [fig1] ). This data suggests an interaction between the TuMV RdRp and eEF1A. The co-purification of eEF1A with TuMV RdRp may be the result of a direct interaction between the two proteins or may occur indirectly through a complex formation involving another protein. An enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA)-based binding assay was used to show the direct interaction of eEF1A with RdRp. Recombinant His-tagged RdRp and His-tagged eEF1A from A. thaliana were purified from Escherichia coli by metal chelating chromatography. ELISA plate wells were coated with His-tagged eEF1A and were incubated with increasing concentrations of His-tagged RdRp. Complex retention was detected using an anti-RdRp rabbit serum. [fig2] shows a saturation binding curve of eEF1A with RdRp. Control experiments showed that no interaction was detected when His-tagged eEF1A was replaced with metal chelating chromatography purified E. coli lysate containing pET-28a, which is the vector that was used for eIF1A expression. This experiment indicates that the co-purification of eEF1A in NTAPi-RdRp transgenic plants results from a direct protein–protein interaction. We have previously shown the redistribution of PABP2 and Hsc70-3 to membrane-associated fractions during TuMV infection ( [bib4 bib16] ). To determine whether eEF1A could be modulated in a similar way, we examined the distribution of the translation factor among soluble and membrane-enriched fractions in Nicotiana benthamiana , a natural host of TuMV. Three-week-old N. benthamiana plants were agroinfiltrated with pCambiaTunos/6KGFP. This plasmid contains an infectious TuMV cDNA that contains an additional gene that codes for the 6K 2 protein linked to GFP (see complete description of the vector below). Infiltrated leaves were collected four days later and used for subcellular fractionation assays. Total, soluble, and membrane-associated proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE and analyzed by immunoblot experiments using an anti-eEF1A rabbit serum. eEF1A was found mainly in the soluble fraction of control P19-agroinfiltrated plants, although a small quantity was observed in the membrane-enriched fraction ( [fig3] ). However, in TuMV-agroinfiltrated plants, a substantially higher level of eEF1A was found in the membrane-enriched fractions when compared to the control plants. To investigate further the membrane association of the elongation factor, eEF1A was fused to the fluorescent protein GFP or DsRed2 ( [fig4] B and C, respectively) and expressed transiently in N . benthamiana using agroinfiltration. Expression of the fluorescent fusions was assessed by immunoblot analysis using a rabbit serum raised against eEF1A. In both cases (i.e. eEF1A-DsRed2 and eEF1A-GFP), a signal corresponding to the expected molecular mass of the analyzed protein was observed, indicating that full length proteins had been expressed (data not shown). Fluorescence was visualized 2 to 5 days post-infiltration by confocal microscopy. No notable differences in cellular localization were observed during this time period. Fluorescence was generally observed in 40 to 60% of the cells in the infiltrated area. GFP and DsRed2 markers with or without ER-targeting signals were co-expressed with the fluorescent eEF1A proteins to facilitate the cellular localization of the translation factor. The coexpression of GFP and eEF1A-DsRed2 clearly showed that the translation factor was mainly a soluble cytoplasmic protein, and was excluded from the nucleus ( [fig5] A ). A similar pattern was observed when eEF1A was fused to GFP and coexpressed with DsRed (data not shown). When ER-targeted GFP (ER-GFP) was coexpressed with the eEF1A-DsRed2 fusion, only partial co-localization was noted ( [fig5] B). These results are in agreement with the cellular fractionation data, in which eEF1A was detected mostly in the soluble fraction and that a small proportion of the eEF1A was membrane-associated. It is well established that a subset of the RdRp is membrane-associated and resides within replication vesicles ( [bib34 bib33 bib45] ). We have recently demonstrated that the presence of TuMV RdRp into cytoplasmic vesicles results from its association with 6K-VPg-Pro ( [bib16] ). We consequently investigated whether expression of a non-cleavable form of 6K-VPg-Pro ( [bib6 bib16] ) can alter the subcellular localization of eEF1A. We previously showed that expression of 6K-VPg-Pro-ct induced the formation of cytoplasmic vesicles ( [bib6] ), within which RdRp was found ( [bib16] ). [fig5] C shows that RdRp and eEF1A localized within the vesicles induced by 6K-VPg-Pro-ct. We also found that eEF1A could be retargeted to the vesicles induced by 6K-VPg-Pro-GFP in the absence of RdRp ( [fig5] D). A similar pattern was observed when eEF1A was fused to GFP and coexpressed with 6K-VPg-Pro fused to the fluorescent protein mCherry (6K-VPg-Pro-mCherry) (data not shown). These data suggest that the elongation factor can be internalized within 6K-VPg-Pro-induced vesicles and that a tripartite complex between eEF1A, 6K-VPg-Pro and RdRp is likely. The presence of the translation elongation factor into the vesicles induced by 6K-VPg-Pro raised the possibility of a direct interaction between the two proteins. To investigate this possibility, ELISA plate wells were coated with His-tagged eEF1A and were incubated with increasing concentrations of glutathione- S -transferase (GST)-tagged VPg-Pro. Complex retention was detected using a polyclonal anti-GST antibody. [fig6] A shows a saturation binding curve of eEF1A with VPg-Pro. Control experiments showed the specificity of the in vitro interaction as no signal was detected when GST-tagged VPg-Pro was replaced with GST. VPg-Pro auto-catalytically cleaves itself into two functional domains: VPg and Pro ( [bib30] ). ELISA-based binding assays were conducted to test if the interaction with eEF1A was mediated by either one of the two domains. [fig6] A shows that each domain was also able to bind eEF1A. Interestingly, the optical density (OD) value for saturation with VPg or Pro was half of that obtained with VPg-Pro, suggesting that VPg-Pro can bind two molecules of the elongation factor. The ELISA-based binding assays indicated that eEF1A interacts with RdRp and VPg-Pro. The possibility of a trimolecular complex was thus investigated. ELISA plate wells were coated with His-tagged eEF1A and were incubated with increasing amounts of GST-tagged VPg-Pro in the absence or in the presence of a saturating binding concentration of His-tagged RdRp. Complex retention was detected using either a polyclonal anti-GST antibody or polyclonal anti-RdRp antibody. [fig6] B shows a saturation binding curve of VPg-Pro with the eEF1A. A similar saturation curve was observed with a saturating binding concentration of RdRp to all concentration of VPg-Pro. The RdRp was retained in the wells in the presence of VPg-Pro since a constant signal was detected with the anti-RdRp. This experiment indicates that both viral proteins bind to eEF1A in a non-competitive manner. This also suggests that a tripartite complex of VPg-Pro, RdRp and eEF1A exists in TuMV-infected plants. The retargeting of eEF1A within the membrane vesicles induced by 6K-VPg-Pro was analyzed by ectopic expression of individual viral proteins. To confirm that the eEF1A protein is found in viral-derived vesicles during TuMV infection, we constructed the plasmid pCambiaTunos/6KGFP ( [fig4] A). This plasmid contains an infectious TuMV cDNA that contains an additional copy of the 6K 2 protein fused to GFP. The 6KGFP coding sequence was inserted between the P1 and HCPro coding genes as an in-frame translational fusion containing flanking P1 and VPg-Pro cleavage sites ( [bib5] ). A similar engineered TEV vector has previously been shown to be infectious and to induce the formation of ER-derived vesicles ( [bib45] ). The ability of this modified TuMV to replicate and form fluorescent vesicles was investigated by expressing pCambiaTunos/6KGFP in N. benthamiana by agroinfiltration. Fluorescence was observed four days later in infiltrated leaves and systemic infection became apparent after six days. Expression of 6KGFP was assessed by immunoblot analysis using a rabbit serum raised against GFP. A signal corresponding to the expected molecular mass of 6KGFP was observed in the membrane-associated fraction (data not shown). This result suggests that 6KGFP was expressed and correctly released from the polyprotein by the viral proteinases. When observed by confocal microscopy, fluorescence emitted by 6KGFP was associated with cytoplasmic vesicles. On average, there were one to three ~ 10 µm vesicles per cell, although several smaller fluorescing structures were also observed ( [fig7] A ). To further characterize these GFP-tagged vesicles, the presence of 6K-VPg-Pro within these vesicles was first investigated by co-expressing pCambia/6K-VPg-Pro-mCherry with pCambiaTunos/6KGFP. Red fluorescence emitted by 6K-VPg-Pro-mCherry was found in all GFP-tagged vesicles ( [fig7] B). We have previously shown that the 6K-VPg-Pro-derived vesicles house the host factors PABP, eIF(iso)4E and Hsc70-3 ( [bib6 bib4 bib16] ). The presence of these factors in the vesicles induced by 6KGFP during TuMV infection was investigated. Each protein was co-expressed with pCambiaTunos/6KGFP in N . benthamiana . When PABP2-mCherry was coexpressed with pCambiaTunos/6KGFP, red fluorescence was seen throughout the cytoplasm, but was also observed in viral-induced vesicles exactly where green fluorescence was emitted by 6KGFP ( [fig7] C). Similarly, the red fluorescence produced by eIF(iso)4E-DsRed ( [fig7] D) or Hsc70-3-DsRed2 ( [fig7] E) was observed throughout the cytoplasm but was also found within the green fluorescing vesicles induced by 6KGFP. These results indicate that the GFP-tagged vesicles observed upon TuMV infection were not empty structures but contained proteins previously found to be included in 6K-VPg-Pro-induced vesicles. To test whether eEF1A is also present in the vesicles formed by 6KGFP, eEF1A-DsRed2 was coexpressed with pCambiaTunos/6KGFP in N . benthamiana . Fluorescence was visualized four days postagroinfiltration by confocal microscopy. Red fluorescence was seen throughout the cytoplasm but also accumulated in punctuate locations that co-localized with the 6K-GFP fluorescence ( [fig7] F). This experiment indicated that eEF1A was internalized in the vesicles formed by 6KGFP during TuMV infection. To verify that the presence of PABP, eIF(iso)4E, Hsc70-3 and eEF1A within the 6KGFP induced vesicles was not the result of a non-specific entrapment, lipase-mCherry ( [fig4] D) was coexpressed with Tunos/6KGFP. The lipase-mCherry was previously found to localize in the cytoplasm 2 days post-infiltration and to localize in the intercellular space 4 days post-infiltration (Thivierge and Laliberté, unpublished results). To date, there is no data involving the lipase in TuMV replication so this protein should not localize in the vesicles. As expected, the lipase-mCherry was not redistributed in the virus-induced vesicles when coexpressed with Tunos/6KGFP ( [fig7] G). The specificity of the vesicular localization of PABP2, eEF(iso)4E, eEF1A and Hsc70-3 was further confirmed by the coexpression of TuMV P3-mCherry ( [fig4] E) with Tunos/6KGFP. TuMV P3-mCherry did not co-localize with the green fluorescence produced by the 6KGFP. Instead, the viral protein was found in the nucleus of the infected plant cell ( [fig7] H). Immunofluorescence was also used to confirm the presence of the elongation factor within the vesicles. N. benthamiana plants were agroinfiltrated with pCambiaTunos/6KGFP and infiltrated leaves were collected four days later for protoplast isolation. Protoplasts were then fixed and labeled with rabbit sera raised against VPg-Pro or eEF1A. The distribution of the tested proteins was visualized with Alexa Fluor 568-conjugated secondary antibody. The presence of VPg-Pro within the vesicles formed by 6KGFP during the course of TuMV infection was first investigated. Fluorescence associated with VPg-Pro was coincident with that of the vesicles formed by 6KGFP ( [fig8] A ). Every vesicles formed by 6KGFP were positive for the presence of VPg-Pro. Additionally, presence of PABP and eIF(iso)4E in the 6KGFP derived vesicles was tested using anti-PABP and anti-eIF(iso)4A sera. As expected, PABP and eIF(iso)4E were found in the GFP-tagged vesicles (data not shown). Likewise, red fluorescence associated with endogenous eEF1A was found within the 6KGFP induced vesicles ( [fig8] B). A proportion of eEF1A was also observed in the cytoplasm. These data point to the hypothesis that the vesicles tagged with 6KGFP house the virus replication complex and that at least three translation factors are included in these vesicles.
!~MM~! The generation and growth of NTAPi-GFP and RdRp-NTAPi transgenic A. thaliana and TAP tag purifications were conducted as previously described ( [bib16] ). Recombinant His-tailed RdRp was purified as previously described ( [bib16] ). pET-EF1A-his encodes a His/T7-tailed eEF1A of A. thaliana and was produced as follows. eEF1A sequence was amplified using Pfu Turbo polymerase (Stratagene) from validated SSP gold standard full length ORF clone U12802 ( [bib46] ) using forward EF1AF-BamHI and reverse EF1AR-NotI primers ( [tbl1] ). The amplified fragment was digested with BamHI and NotI and cloned into similarly digested pET28a (Novagen). The recombinant plasmid was introduced into E. coli BL21 (DE3). Cells (500 ml) containing pET-EF1A-his were grown at 37 °C to an OD 600 of 0.6 and protein expression was induced with 1 mM IPTG for 3 h. Bacterial cells were collected by centrifugation and resuspended in buffer A (500 mM NaCl, 160 mM Tris–HCl, pH 8). The cells were disrupted by sonication and centrifuged at 39,000 × g for 20 min. The insoluble proteins were resuspended in 20 ml of buffer A containing 6 M guanidine, 5 mM β-mercaptoethanol and 0.1 % Tween-20. The solubilized proteins were recovered by ultracentrifugation at 100,000 × g and incubated with 2.5 ml of Talon Metal Affinity Resin (Clontech). The resin was washed with buffer A containing 6 M guanidine and bound proteins were eluted using the same buffer but containing 250 mM imidazole. The purified proteins were dialyzed against 20 mM NaCl, 10 mM Tris–HCl pH 8.0. Protein concentration was measured using a Bradford assay (Bio-Rad) with bovine serum albumin (BSA) as standard. The pGEXVPgPro24–GST encodes an N-terminus GST-fused mutant form of TuMV VPg-Pro and was created by replacing the glutamate (Glu) 192 of VPg-Pro by histidine (His). This mutation abolishes the cleavage site between the VPg and the Pro domains ( [bib30] ). The mutation was introduced by chimeric PCR using full length TuMV cDNA clone p35Tunos as a template ( [bib43] ). Two individual PCRs were conducted before the chimeric reaction using primers: 1) VPgPro-EcoRI F and VPgPro mutation R ( [tbl1] ) and 2) VPgPro-NotI R and VPgPro mutation F ( [tbl1] ). Then, the two PCR products were diluted 1:1000 and mixed for a second run of PCR using the VPgPro-EcoRI F and VPgPro-NotI R primers. The final PCR product was digested with EcoRI and NotI and ligated into similarly restricted pGEX6P1vector (Amersham Biosciences). The final construct was sequenced to confirm the presence of the mutation. For construction of pGEXPro–GST, the Pro domain of VPg-Pro was amplified from p35Tunos by PCR using primers Pro pGEX6P1-EcoRI F and VPgPro-NotI R ( [tbl1] ). The PCR product was introduced into pGEX6P1 as described above. The pGEXPro–GST codes for the N-terminus GST fusion of the Pro domain of TuMV VPg-Pro. The construction of the vector pGEXVPg–GST coding for the N-terminus GST–VPg fusion protein was previously described ( [bib12] ). The recombinant plasmids (pGEXVPgPro24–GST, pGEXPro–GST, and pGEXVPg–GST) were introduced in E. coli BL21. BL21 E. coli cells containing recombinant plasmids were cultured at 37 °C to an OD 600 of 0.6 and protein expression was induced with 1 mM IPTG for 3 h at 30 °C. Bacterial cells were centrifuged and resuspended in buffer B (4.3 mM Na 2 HPO 4 , 1.47 mM KH 2 PO 4 , 137 mM NaCl, 2.7 mM KCl, pH 7.3). The cells were disrupted by sonication and the lysate was centrifuged at 39,000 × g for 20 min. The supernatant was used for affinity purification of GST–VPgPro24, GST–VPg or GST–Pro. The protein extract was added to GST-Bind resin (Novagen) according to the manufacturer's protocol and incubated at 4 °C for 1 h. Beads were washed three times with buffer B and collected by centrifugation for 5 min at 500 × g . The fusion proteins were eluted from the resin in a buffer containing 10 mM reduced glutathione and 50 mM Tris–HCl pH 8.0. Protein concentration was measured using a Bradford assay using BSA as standard. GST controls (the pGEX-6P1 vector without insert) was expressed and purified using the same conditions. A. thaliana eEF1A protein (100 µl of protein at 15 ng µl − 1 in PBS buffer) or metal chelation-purified E. coli lysate containing pET28(a) was adsorbed to wells of a polystyrene plate (Costar) by overnight incubation at 4 °C and wells were blocked with 5% milk PBS solution for 2 h at room temperature. Appropriate proteins were diluted in PBS with 1% milk and 0.1% Tween 20 and incubated for 1.5 h at 4 °C in the previously coated wells. Detection of retained protein was achieved with a rabbit anti-GST (Invitrogen) or anti-RdRp ( [bib16] ) sera, followed by a horseradish peroxidase-coupled goat anti-rabbit immunoglobulin serum (Pierce). Wells were washed four times with PBS supplemented with 0.05% Tween 20 between incubations. Enzymatic reactions were performed in 100 µl of OPD citrate buffer (50 mM citric acid, 100 mM sodium phosphate dibasic, pH 5.0, 0.5 mg/ml o -phenylenediamine dihydrochloride (OPD) and 0.1% hydrogen peroxide) and stopped with a solution of 3 M H 2 SO 4 . Absorbance was measured at 492 nm. Standard error of the mean (SEM) was calculated for three biological replicates from a minimum of three technical replicates. Three-week-old N. benthamiana plants were agroinfiltrated with pCambiaTunos/6KGFP or P19 vector. After infiltration, the plants were kept for 4 days in a growth chamber before collection of leaves. Leaf tissue (1 g) was ground in 4 ml of homogenization buffer [50 mM Tris–HCl, pH 7.6, 15 mM MgCl 2 , 10 mM KCl, 20 % glycerol, 0.1% β-mercaptoethanol, plant proteinase inhibitor (Sigma)]. Cell wall, nuclei, chloroplasts and debris were removed by two centrifugations at 3000 × g at 4 °C for 10 min. The supernatant (S3) was centrifuged at 30,000 × g at 4 °C for 30 min, resulting in soluble (S30) and crude membrane (P30) fractions. The P30 pellet was resuspended in the same volume as the supernatant in homogenization buffer. Twenty microliters of total, soluble, and membrane fractions were collected, diluted in 1:5 in protein dissociation buffer, and subjected to immunoblot analysis following SDS-PAGE. The antigen-antibody complexes were visualized using a horseradish peroxidase-coupled goat anti-rabbit IgG under standard conditions. Complexes were visualized with Super Signal West Pico substrate (Pierce). Plasmids for co-localization were constructed as follows. The sequence of eEF1A was amplified with Pfu Turbo polymerase (Stratagene) from full length ORF clone U12802 ( [bib46] ) using primers eEF1F EGFP-XbaI and eEF1R EGFP-BamHI ( [tbl1] ) and inserted into the XbaI/BamHI sites of pGreen/GFP or pGreen/DsRed2. The resulting plasmids were identified as pGreen/eEF1A-GFP and pGreen/eEF1A-DsRed2. The sequence of lipase-like protein (GenBank accession no. AY065046 ) was amplified with Pfu Turbo polymerase (Stratagene) from full length ORF clone pda02401 (RIKEN) using primers LipaseF mCherry-XbaI and LipaseR mCherry-BamHI ( [tbl1] ) and inserted into the XbaI/BamHI sites of pCambia/mCherry. TuMV P3 sequence was amplified from p35Tunos ( [bib43] ) with primers P3F mCherry-HindIII and P3R mCherry-HindIII ( [tbl1] ). The amplified fragment was digested with HindIII and cloned into similarly digested pCambia/mCherry. The resulting plasmids were identified as pCambia/lipase-mCherry and pCambia/P3-mCherry, respectively. The plasmids pGreen/GFP, pGreen/ER-GFP, pGreen/DsRed2, pGreen/6K-Vpg-Pro-GFP, pGreen/6K-VPg-Pro-ct, pCambia/PABP-mCherry, pCambia/6K-VPg-Pro-mCherry, pGreen/Hsc70-3-DsRed2, pCambia/eIF(iso)4E-DsRed, and pCambia/GFP-RdRp have previously been described ( [bib6 bib4 bib16] ). All plasmid constructs were verified by sequencing. The plasmid pCambiaTunos/6KGFP contains an infectious TuMV cDNA that contained an additional copy of the 6K 2 protein fused to the GFP and was constructed as follow. A fragment containing 6K and a part of CI sequence was amplified with primers JFCI and FT6K-BamHI ( [tbl1] ) from pSK/TuMV ClaI ( [bib31] ) and introduced into pGreen/GFP ( [bib6] ) using XbaI–BamHI restriction sites. 6KGFP was then amplified using primers JF6K-SacII and FTGFP-SacII ( [tbl1] ) and introduced into SacII site of p35Tunos/ Sac II plasmid ( [bib5] ). 35S-TuMV-tunos was then inserted into the Sma1–Apa1 restriction sites of pCambia 0390 binary vector. Binary vectors containing genes for fluorescent fusion proteins were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens AGL1 by electroporation. Transformed cells confirmed to contain the binary vector were used for agroinfiltration assays. Bacterial cultures grown overnight were centrifuged, and the pellet was resuspended in water supplemented with 10 mM MgCl 2 and 150 mM acetosyringone. The resulting preparation was used to agroinfiltrate leaves from 3-week-old N. benthamiana plants. To allow optimal expression of the fusion proteins, the Tomato bushy stunt virus P19 protein was coexpressed in the agroinfiltrated plant cells to prevent induction of posttranscriptional gene silencing ( [bib41] ). After infiltration, the plants were kept for 2 to 4 days in a growth chamber before observation. Fluorescence was visualized 2 to 4 days post-infiltration by confocal microscopy, which was carried as previously described ( [bib4] ). The data for green and red channels were collected simultaneously. Images were collected with a charge-coupled-device camera and treated with Adobe Photoshop or Image J ( http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/ ) software. N. benthamiana leaves agroinfiltrated with pCambiaTunos/6KGFP were collected at 4 days post-inoculation and sliced in 1 mm wide stripes and incubated in an enzyme solution (1.5% cellulose R10, 0.2% macerozyme R10, 0.5 M mannitol, 20 mM KCl, 20 mM MES pH 5.7, 10 mM CaCl 2 , 0.1% BSA) for 3 h in the dark under vacuum. The protoplast solution was filtered through a 45 μm nylon filter and centrifuged for 4 min at 100 × g . The supernatant was removed. Protoplasts were incubated for 15 min at room temperature with one volume of fixing solution (4% formaldehyde, 0.25 M mannitol, 50 mM sodium phosphate in PBS). They were centrifuged and resuspended for 30 min with 2 volumes of fixing solution at room temperature. Protoplasts were washed three times with PBS for 10 min. Then, they were put on cover slide pretreated with 0.1% poly- l -lysine. They were treated with Triton X-100 0.5% in PBS for 10 min and incubated for 20 min in a blocking solution of 5% BSA in PBS. They were incubated for 1 h with the first antibody, washed three times with PBS for 10 min, incubated for another hour with the secondary antibody conjugated to Alexa Fluor 568 (Molecular Probes) and finally washed three times with PBS for 10 min. Pro-long Gold Antifade was used to prepare the slides. Confocal microscope visualization was carried as previously described ( [bib4] ). The data for green and red channels were collected simultaneously. Images were collected with a charge-coupled-device camera and treated with Adobe Photoshop or Image J ( http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/ ) software.
