!~ABS~! The water uptake capacity of plant roots (i.e. their hydraulic conductivity, Lpr) is determined in large part by aquaporins of the plasma membrane intrinsic protein (PIP) subfamily. In the present work, we investigated two stimuli, salicylic acid (SA) and salt, because of their ability to induce an accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and an inhibition of Lpr concomitantly in the roots of Arabidopsis plants. The inhibition of Lpr by SA was partially counteracted by preventing the accumulation of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) with exogenous catalase. In addition, exogenous H2O2 was able to reduce Lpr by up to 90% in <15 min. Based on the lack of effects of H2O2 on the activity of individual aquaporins in Xenopus oocytes, and on a pharmacological dissection of the action of H2O2 on Lpr, we propose that ROS do not gate Arabidopsis root aquaporins through a direct oxidative mechanism, but rather act through cell signalling mechanisms. Expression in transgenic roots of PIP-GFP fusions and immunogold labelling indicated that external H2O2 enhanced, in <15 min, the accumulation of PIPs in intracellular structures tentatively identified as vesicles and small vacuoles. Exposure of roots to SA or salt also induced an intracellular accumulation of the PIP-GFP fusion proteins, and these effects were fully counteracted by co-treatment with exogenous catalase. In conclusion, the present work identifies SA as a novel regulator of aquaporins, and delineates an ROS-dependent signalling pathway in the roots of Arabidopsis. Several abiotic and biotic stress-related stimuli potentially share this path, which involves an H2O2-induced internalization of PIPs, to downregulate root water transport.
!~RES~! The accumulation of ROS in roots was investigated by imaging the oxidatively sensitive fluorescence of carboxy-2′,7′-dichlorofluorescin (carboxy-DCF) released intracellularly from its acetylesterified form (carboxy-H2DCFDA) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). In a general survey of environmental and/or hormonal stimuli, we observed that the exposure of roots to SA for 60 min increased the relative fluorescence of carboxy-DCF by ∼60%, and therefore triggered an accumulation of ROS in root cells (Figure S1). We also checked, in agreement with previous reports (CITATION; CITATION), that the treatment of Arabidopsis roots with salt (150 mm NaCl) induced an intracellular ROS accumulation (Figure S1). Whereas the time- and dose-dependent inhibition of root water transport by salt has already been described in Arabidopsis and other species (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), the effects of SA on tissue water transport have remained unexplored. To investigate these effects, the pressure-induced sap flow [Jv(P)] was measured in excised Arabidopsis roots. Figure 1a shows that the application of 0.5 mm SA, at a constant 320 kPa pressure, induced a time-dependent decrease in Jv(P) of ∼25% in ∼60 min. Lower SA concentrations (0.01–0.1 mm) had no significant effect on Jv(P) (not shown). The effects of 0.5 mm SA were fully reversed after <50 min after washout. In parallel experiments, we determined pressure–sap flow relationships, and checked that the inhibition of Jv(P) by SA reflected an inhibition of Lpr by a similar factor (not shown). Because of the relatively rapid kinetics of inhibition (T1/2 inhibition = 19.8 ± 4.4 min; n = 21) and reversion (T1/2 reversion = 12.3 ± 5.2 min; n = 7), the effects of SA on Lpr were interpreted to result from the regulation of root aquaporins. Overall, an inhibition of Lpr by 29.2 ± 2.4% (n = 21) was observed after exposure for 90 min to 0.5 mm SA, whereas the chemical analogue 4-hydroxybenzoic acid induced a much lower inhibition (6.4 ± 2.4%; n = 11) with a concentration of 0.5 mm. Therefore, the effects of SA on Lpr cannot be explained by a direct acid loading resulting from SA intracellular diffusion (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To determine the role of ROS (and H2O2 in particular) in the SA-dependent inhibition of Lpr, H2O2 accumulation was prevented by treating roots with 400 U ml−1 catalase for 30 min prior to exposure to 0.5 mm SA for 90 min. In these experiments, the procedure significantly reduced (P = 0.007) the inhibition of Lpr by SA from 36.6 to 25.1% (Figure 1b). In contrast, treatment of roots by catalase alone had no effect (2% inhibition) on Lpr. These data show that the downregulation of root water transport by SA is mediated in part by an enhanced accumulation of H2O2. The effects of exogenous H2O2 on whole root water transport were investigated using the same approach as has been exemplified for SA. Figure 2a shows that application of H2O2 to excised root systems induced a time- and dose-dependent decrease in Jv(P). For instance, exposure for 25 min to 0.1–8 mm H2O2 concentrations led to a decrease in Jv(P) of 19–79% (Figure 2b). In the same experiments, the half-time of inhibition showed a tendency (P = 0.08) to reduce from 8.8 ± 0.9 min (0.1 mm H2O2; n = 5) to 6.3 ± 0.3 min (8 mm H2O2; n = 5) (Figure 2a and data not shown). The pressure–sap flow relationships determined in parallel indicated that millimolar concentrations of exogenous H2O2 reduced Jv(P) and Lpr by the same factor (not shown). We note that, because of the presence of transition metals in the apoplasm, the molecules acting on root water transport can be either H2O2 or related ROS, in particular OH•, which is produced by a Fenton reaction. [[FIGURE]] Because aquaporins contribute to more than 70% of the Lpr in Arabidopsis (CITATION; CITATION), the marked effects of H2O2 on root water transport must be mediated in large part by an inhibition of aquaporin activity. To establish this idea further, we investigated the effects of H2O2 on the water relation parameters of single root cells in situ. Cortical cells are the only cells of the Arabidopsis root that are amenable to cell pressure probe measurements (CITATION). Figure 3 shows that the treatment of roots for 25–45 min by up to 2 mm H2O2 neither changed the stationary turgor (Pe) nor changed the volumetric elastic modulus (ɛ) of these cells. By contrast, the half-time of water exchange (T1/2) was increased from 0.46 to 4.16 sec after treatment with concentrations of H2O2 of up to 2 mm. This resulted in a dose-dependent inhibition of cell hydraulic conductivity (Lpcell) by 45 and 68% in response to 0.5 and 2 mm H2O2, respectively (P < 0.01). Because, in the Arabidopsis root cortex, Lpcell is in large part determined by aquaporins (CITATION; CITATION), these data indicate that H2O2 markedly reduced aquaporin activity in cortical cells without significantly altering solute accumulation (Pe) or cell wall elasticity (ɛ). [[FIGURE]] To test the hypothesis of an oxidative gating of root aquaporins by ROS (CITATION), the sensitivity of individual aquaporin isoforms to ROS inhibition was investigated after functional expression in Xenopus oocytes. We characterized, among the most abundantly expressed aquaporins from Arabidopsis roots (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), three different isoforms, AtPIP1;2, AtPIP2;1 and AtTIP1;1, as representative members of three distinct subclasses. Osmotic swelling assays showed that the osmotic water permeability (Pf) of oocytes injected with the corresponding cRNAs was significantly higher than that of native (uninjected) oocytes (Figure 4), showing that each of these aquaporins was functionally expressed in these cells. Incubation for 5 min in the presence of 2 mm H2O2 or 2 mm H2O2 plus 2 mm FeEDTA did not alter the water transport properties of native oocytes or oocytes expressing plant aquaporins (Figure 4). A longer treatment (25 min) by 2 mm H2O2 did not significantly affect the Pf of oocytes either (data not shown). Thus, the water transport activity of AtPIP1;2, AtPIP2;1 and AtTIP1;1 was insensitive to H2O2 or derived OH•. [[FIGURE]] Exposure of plant cells to ROS can initiate a Ca2+ influx and downstream signalling cascades (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), which could ultimately lead to aquaporin downregulation. To test this hypothesis, plants were cultivated in a Ca2+-free bathing solution for 2 h prior to root excision. Excised roots were then treated with 75 μm LaCl3, an inhibitor of calcium channels, and 2 mm EGTA, a divalent cation chelator (CITATION; CITATION). By comparison with control untreated roots, Jv(P) was not altered after Ca2+ deprivation and 1 h of the LaCl3/EGTA treatment (not shown). By contrast, when added after 10 min of this treatment, 0.5 mm H2O2 induced a significant time-dependent decrease in Jv(P) (Figure 5). However, the percentage of inhibition by H2O2 (18.6 ± 2.8%; n = 8) was decreased twofold with respect to that of control roots that were bathed in a standard solution containing Ca2+ (42.9 ± 4.6%; n = 9) (Figure 5). The T1/2 inhibition resulting from treatment with 0.5 mm H2O2was similar between control roots (T1/2 inhibition = 7.5 ± 0.5 min) and roots submitted to the LaCl3/EGTA pre-treatment (T1/2 inhibition = 6.7 ± 0.6 min). The overall results are interpreted to mean that extracellular Ca2+, and probably a primary influx of Ca2+ in root cells, contributed at least one half of the H2O2-induced inhibition of root water transport. [[FIGURE]] In supplementary experiments we probed for the involvement of phosphorylation events in the downstream response of roots to H2O2. Treatment of excised roots with 2 μm staurosporine, a general blocker of protein kinases, for 10 min prior to the addition of 0.5 mm H2O2, did not affect the final percentage of the H2O2-induced inhibition of Jv(P) (Figure S2). By contrast, T1/2 inhibition was significantly increased, from 6.8 min (control) to 9.9 min (staurosporine-treated) (Figure S2). Altogether, our data point to H2O2-induced signalling mechanisms, which would be mediated through both primary Ca2+ influx and phosphorylation events. The rapidity of Lpr inhibition by H2O2 suggested that aquaporin regulation might primarily occur at the post-translational level. Although a gating of aquaporins in response to cytosolic factors, namely altered phosphorylation, H+ or free Ca2+, may be involved, here we evaluated the possible contribution of a stimulus-induced relocalization of aquaporins. For this, we used transgenic plants that express fusions of GFP with PIP1;2 and PIP2;1, taken here as representative PIP aquaporins. Laser scanning confocal microscopy of root epidermal cells revealed, in plants grown in standard conditions, a peripheral labelling pattern, indicating predominant expression of the GFP fusions at the plasma membrane (Figure 6). In cells distal from the root apex (20–30 mm), a slight reticulate, perinuclear labelling was occasionally observed, suggesting a partial retention of the fusion proteins in the secretory pathway. Labelling of small intracellular spherical bodies (hereafter referred to as spherical bodies) was occasionally observed in 3.0 ± 1.5% (n = 100 cells) and 6.9 ± 2.5% (n = 107 cells) of epidermal cells expressing GFP-PIP1;2 or PIP2;1-GFP, respectively. Although these bodies might be related to the late endosome/pre-vacuolar compartment (CITATION), their precise nature remains undetermined. Treatment of roots expressing the GFP fusions with 2 mm H2O2 for 15 min resulted in a marked alteration of this labelling pattern, with a strong enhancement of intracellular staining, either diffuse or localized on discrete structures (Figure 6). In particular, the percentage of GFP-PIP1;2 or PIP2;1-GFP cells showing a labelling of spherical bodies was raised to 27.4 ± 6.7% (n = 146 cells) and 66.4 ± 13.5% (n = 87 cells), respectively. To further quantify the effects of H2O2, longitudinal optical sections of epidermal cells were taken at 3, 15 or 30 mm from the apex, and average gray values were integrated from delimited image surfaces corresponding to the cell periphery and the cell interior, respectively. Images were acquired in conditions where the labelling intensity of the cell surface was close to saturation, and appeared constant between control and H2O2-treated cells (not shown). In contrast, H2O2 treatment induced an increase by 40–140% and >1000% (11.2–14.3-fold) in the overall intracellular labelling in epidermal cells expressing GFP-PIP1;2 and PIP2;1-GFP, respectively (Figure 7a). Transgenic plants expressing a GFP-low-temperature-inducible protein 6a (GFP-LTi6a) fusion, used here as an independent marker of the plasma membrane, also showed, although less pronounced than with PIP2;1-GFP, an increase in intracellular labelling in response to H2O2, by up to 110% (Figure 7a). We also observed a qualitatively similar response to 2 mm H2O2 in root cortical cells, with enhanced intracellular labelling by GFP-PIP1;2 (+12–49%), PIP2;1-GFP (+59–209%) or GFP-LTi6a (+10–57%) fusions (Figure 7b). We note that, in resting conditions, the apparent intracellular labelling of cortical cells was higher than in epidermal cells, probably because of a lower resolution of plasma membrane confocal imaging in the former cells. Therefore, the relative effects of H2O2 on intracellular labelling might have been more difficult to resolve. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To get an enhanced resolution of the cell membrane responses to H2O2, an ultrastructural analysis of epidermal cells was performed by transmission electron microscopy. Immunocytochemistry on control, untreated roots using an anti-PIP2;1 antibody revealed a dense immunogold labelling along the plasma membrane, and occasionally in local invaginations of the cytosol within the vacuolar space (Figure 8a). Treatment of roots with 2 mm H2O2 for 15 min did not result in any significant morphological change of cell membranes (Figure 8b). However, immunogold labelling was more diffuse along the cell surface, and a marked expression of PIP2 in the intracellular compartments was observed (Figure 8a). [[FIGURE]] Altogether, the microscopic data support the idea that exogenous H2O2 enhances the accumulation of PIP aquaporins in intracellular membranes, possibly through relocalization from the plasma membrane. These findings prompted us to evaluate in closer detail the effects of SA and NaCl on aquaporin subcellular localization, and a possible role of ROS in mediating these effects. Treatment of roots of the aquaporin-GFP reporter lines by SA (0.5 mm, 1 h) resulted in marked changes in the intracellular labelling pattern of epidermal cells, similar to those observed in response to H2O2. A diffuse localization of GFP-PIP1;2 or PIP2;1-GFP along the cell periphery, and in spherical bodies, was observed (Figure 9a). In PIP2;1-GFP plants, and at 30 mm from the root apex, the proportion of epidermal cells with labelled spherical bodies, used here as a reliable indicator of intracellular accumulation of the GFP fusion, was increased from 7.7 ± 3.8% (untreated) to 32.5 ± 3.3% (+SA) (Figure 9b). Treatment of roots by 400 U ml−1 catalase alone did not significantly alter the PIP2;1-GFP labelling pattern of root epidermal cells. However, when it was provided for 30 min prior to the SA treatment, catalase was able to counteract the SA effects by ∼90% (P = 0.006), with the percentage of cells with labelled spherical bodies (10.4 ± 4.4%) being similar to that of control untreated roots. These results suggest that the effects of SA on PIP2;1 subcellular localization are mediated via a pathway involving H2O2. [[FIGURE]] Exposure of Arabidopsis roots expressing PIP2;1-GFP to 150 mm NaCl for 45 min also enhanced the intracellular staining of epidermal cells. These effects were similar in nature, but were more rapid and pronounced than those previously observed in response to 100 mm NaCl (CITATION). At 30 mm from the root apex, the proportion of PIP2;1-GFP cells showing a labelling of spherical bodies was increased by about threefold from 9% (untreated) to 27% by treatment with salt (Figure 10). However, the pre-treatment of roots with catalase for 30 min was able to reduce the salt enhancement of the labelling of spherical bodies by 71% (P = 0.002), suggesting that these effects were mediated in large part through extracellular H2O2 (Figure 10). [[FIGURE]] Altogether, these observations show that exposure of roots to SA and salt leads to an accumulation of PIP aquaporins in intracellular structures that is qualitatively similar to that induced by exogenous H2O2. The effects of salt and SA on aquaporin localization are mediated in part through ROS, the accumulation of which is enhanced by these two treatments (Figure S1). These chains of events may contribute to the inhibitory effects of the two stimuli on root water transport.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana plants, ecotype Col-0, were germinated and grown in vitro for 10 days before transfer to hydroponic culture, as described in CITATION. Plants were further grown for 10–20 days in a growth chamber at 70% relative humidity, with cycles of 16 h of light (180 μE m−2 sec−1) at 22°C and 8 h of dark at 21°C. The preparation of plants expressing a PIP2;1-GFP fusion under the control of a CaMV 35S promoter, or plants expressing a GFP-PIP1;2 or a GFP-LTi6a fusion, was described elsewhere (CITATION; CITATION). Transgenic Arabidopsis plantlets were grown in vitro for 7–12 days on half-strength MS medium (CITATION). All procedures are detailed in Appendix S1. The hydrostatic water transport in root systems excised from plants grown in hydroponics was measured essentially as described by CITATION and CITATION. The water relation parameters of root cortical cells were determined using a cell pressure probe, as described by CITATION. Measurements were performed at a distance of 15–20 mm from the root apex in root tip segments perfused with a nutrient solution complemented with 5 mm Mes-KOH, pH 5.5, and the indicated H2O2 concentration. Functional expression of aquaporins in Xenopus oocytes was as described by CITATION. Transgenic seedlings expressing GFP fusions were transferred for 15–60 min into a nutrient solution, either standard or complemented with the indicated concentration of H2O2, SA, NaCl or catalase (Sigma-Aldrich, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com), and the GFP signal was examined on a sample of root tissue under a glass coverslip. All observations were performed using a Zeiss LSM 510 AX70 as described by CITATION. To enable comparison of the pixel intensity of images taken from the same transgenic line, but under different treatments, images were taken under identical exposure conditions. Average grey values within selected image areas corresponding to the cell surface or interior were obtained using ImageJ software (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/). For detection of intracellular spherical bodies, epidermal cells were examined individually through a stack of images at 2-μm spacing along the z-axis. Samples were fixed with 0.5% formaldehyde in 0.1 m PBS (pH 7.4) for 1 h at 20°C, dehydrated, embedded in LR White (Sigma-Aldrich), and sectioned according to CITATION. Sections were then incubated with a 1 : 50 dilution of a rabbit anti-PIP2;1 antibody (CITATION) for 1 h at 20°C, and a goat anti-rabbit secondary antibody conjugated to 20-nm gold particles (Ted Pella Inc., http://www.tedpella.com) for 1 h at 20°C. To increase the contrast in specimens, sections were positively stained with uranyl acetate-lead citrate. Sections were observed using a JEOL 1200 EX II microscope operating at 70 kV (JEOL, http://www.jeol.com).
