!~ABS~! SPIRAL2 (SPR2) of Arabidopsis thaliana is a microtubule-associated protein containing multiple HEAT repeats that are found only in the plant lineage. We show that SPR2 and SP2L, their closest Arabidopsis homolog, are expressed in various tissues with partially overlapping patterns, and spr2-sp2l double mutants exhibit enhanced right-handed helical growth. Fusion to green fluorescent protein (GFP) expressed under the control of the native regulatory elements showed that both SPR2 and SP2L were localized to cortical microtubules, mainly in particles of various sizes. Along the microtubule, the GFP-fused forms also distributed partly at the plus ends. In the spr2-mutant background, cortical microtubules were less dynamic, and the pause state – in which microtubules undergo neither growth nor shrinkage – increased at the plus ends. The continuous plus-end tracking of GFP-EB1 was occasionally interrupted in the mutant cells. Recombinant SPR2 protein promoted microtubule polymerization, and bound to microtubules with an N-terminal segment that contained two HEAT repeats as well as to those with a C-terminal region. In vitro analyses of microtubule dynamics revealed that SPR2 and SP2L suppressed the pause state at microtubule ends, thereby leading to enhanced microtubule growth. We propose that the SPR2-family proteins act on the pause state to facilitate a transition to microtubule growth.
!~RES~! The Arabidopsis genome possesses one close homolog of SPR2, referred to here as SPIRAL2-Like (At1g50890; SP2L). SPR2 and SP2L both contain an N-terminal Ser/Thr-rich region and nine recognizable HEAT-repeat motifs, and exhibit overall amino acid identity of 48% to each other (CITATION; CITATION). To compare the levels and patterns of SPR2 and SP2L gene expression, we first conducted an reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR-based analysis using a common primer set. The PCR primers hybridize to the sequences strictly conserved in the coding regions of these genes, and amplify a 987-bp SPR2 cDNA fragment and an 879-bp SP2L cDNA fragment that can be distinguished from the amplification products from the genomic regions (Fig. 1A). Thus, the expression levels of SPR2 and SP2L were directly compared after separation of the respective cDNA fragments on agarose gels. SPR2 and SP2L were expressed in all the tissues examined, with the strongest expression in the inflorescence (Fig. 1B). In all tissues, SPR2 was expressed more strongly than SP2L. To explore the tissue- and cell-type expression patterns further, tandem copies of GFP were inserted at the 3′ end of the coding sequences of the SPR2 and SP2L genomic DNA regions, and were expressed in transgenic Arabidopsis plants under control of their native cis-regulatory sequences. When several independent transgenic lines were examined (n=3 for SPR2-GFP and n=11 for SP2L-GFP), much stronger GFP fluorescence was observed in SPR2-GFP-expressing plants than in SP2L-GFP-expressing plants (Fig. 1C). SPR2-GFP signals were detected in all tissue types examined, but were considerably stronger in the root tips and the shoot meristem. SP2L-GFP was expressed at low levels in various cell types, whereas intense expression was seen at the hydathodes in cotyledons and relatively strong signals were detected in root hairs. The Genevestigator organ-specific expression-profile database (CITATION) indicates that SPR2 transcripts are present at relatively high levels in all organs, whereas the levels of SP2L transcripts are generally low but considerably abundant in root hair cells and pollen. These microarray-based expression profiles are thus consistent with our RT-PCR and promoter-expression-based analyses, and we conclude that SPR2 and SP2L are expressed in almost all plant tissues in generally overlapping patterns, and that SPR2 expression is stronger than SP2L expression. To reveal possible functional redundancy, we examined phenotypes of transferred (T)-DNA insertion alleles of SP2L and their double mutants in combination with spr2. We identified three sp2l-mutant alleles in the ABRC T-DNA insertion pools, among which sp2l-1 and sp2l-3 did not express full-length SP2L transcripts (Fig. 2A). The two sp2l mutants were indistinguishable from the wild type in growth and morphology. These two sp2l alleles were then crossed to two spr2 alleles in the same ecotype (CITATION). Right-handed twisting of petioles in spr2 was highly enhanced in the double mutants; the petioles of spr2-2 and spr2-3 rotated around the petiole axis roughly 180 degrees (upside down) and 90 degrees, respectively, whereas the petioles of the double mutant between spr2-2 and spr2l-1 (hereafter referred to as spr2-2sp2l-1) and spr2-3sp2l-3 skewed further to 360 degrees and 180 degrees (Fig. 2B,C). Inflorescence of the double mutants twined up a support in a right-handed helix, a phenotype not observed in either single mutants (Fig. 2D). The spr2sp2l double mutant roots grew slightly towards the right side of the agar plates (as viewed from above; see Fig. 2E,F). Although SPR2 and SP2L are expressed in root hairs; we observed no root hair phenotype in single and double mutants. These phenotypic analyses of single and double mutants indicate that mutations in SP2L enhance the right-handed twisting phenotype of spr2.   [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]] When SP2L was expressed under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter in spr2, the resulting transgenic plants grew like wild-type plants without a skewing phenotype in the leaf petiole and in the root (Fig. 2G). Therefore, SP2L can complement the loss of SPR2 function when expressed strongly. In summary, SPR2 and SP2L have similar and overlapping functions in the regulation of anisotropic growth. Previous studies have shown that the SPR2-GFP fusion protein labeled microtubules in the cortical array, preprophase band, metaphase spindle and phragmoplast when stably overexpressed under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter in transgenic Arabidopsis plants and tobacco BY-2 cells (CITATION; CITATION). In this study, native cis-regulatory sequences were used to express SPR2-GFP and SP2L-GFP so that the precise subcellular localization of SPR2 and SP2L at the endogenous expression level may be revealed. Expression of SPR2-GFP in its genomic context complemented the spr2 mutant (Fig. 2H), whereas SP2L-GFP expressed in its genomic region ameliorated the twisting phenotype of spr2sp2l to the level of the spr2-single mutant (data not shown). These results indicate that SPR2-GFP and SP2L-GFP are functional. Both SPR2-GFP and SP2L-GFP labeled cortical microtubule array in all the cells where the transgenes were expressed. In many cell types, the GFP fluorescence was observed in punctate patterns of various sizes that aligned on the microtubule lattice (Fig. 3A). These distinct GFP particles appeared to be aggregates or oligomers of SPR2-SP2L–GFP. The intersections of two crossing microtubules are often labeled more intensely than neighboring regions (Fig. 3B). In hypocotyl epidermal cells, we observed events in which SPR2-GFP particles were `picked up' by the shrinking microtubule end, causing an increase in GFP signal at the microtubule end as the shrinkage continued (Fig. 3C and supplementary material Movie 1). When one motile particle encountered another on the same microtubule, they yielded an enhanced GFP signal (Fig. 3D and supplementary material Movie 2). Also, one particle did sometimes divide into two smaller ones. Such merging and fission of the SPR2-SP2L–GFP particles may explain the observed variation in size. The GFP-fused proteins also faintly labeled the entire length of microtubules, indicating that SPR2-SP2L–GFP proteins have weak affinity for the microtubule lattice. A concentration of the SPR2-SP2L–GFP signals was sometimes observed at the plus ends of microtubules (Fig. 3E and supplementary material Movie 3). Interestingly, the GFP signals appeared to be concentrated not only on the growing end but also on the shrinking end. Guard cells of SPR2-GFP plants contained few large fluorescent foci but had cortical arrays decorated along their length with the fusion protein (Fig. 3F). There, SPR2-GFP accumulated at the plus end of microtubules that grew outward from the inner face of the guard cells (Fig. 3G and supplementary material Movie 4), although the accumulation of SPR2-GFP at the growing plus end was not as extensive as that of GFP-EB1 (supplementary material Fig. S1), indicating that SPR2 has weaker affinity for the microtubule ends than EB1. It has been shown that the distribution of cortical microtubules was biased toward left-handed arrays in hypocotyl epidermal cells with tortifolia, an allele of spr2, compared with wild-type microtubules (CITATION). To test whether alterations of microtubule dynamics underlie the observed shift in distribution, we monitored cortical microtubules beneath the outer epidermal walls of hypocotyls and petioles by using GFP-tagged β-tubulin (GFP-TUB6). The rather mild defect in the organization of tortifolia microtubules prompted us to compare the microtubule status in four samples; wild type, spr2-2 and spr2-2sp2l-1 double mutants, and a transgenic plant line in which overexpressed SPR2 complemented the spr2-2 phenotype (SPR2ox;spr2) (Fig. 4). In both 4-day-old and 7-day-old wild-type hypocotyls, microtubule orientations were distributed over a broad range from transverse to oblique angles. We did not observe a bimodal distribution consisting of two distinct populations of left- and right-handed arrays in the 7-day-old wild-type hypocotyls, as reported by Buschmann et al. (CITATION). Rotary movements of cortical microtubule arrays reported in Arabidopsis hypocotyl epidermal cells (CITATION) might underlie this discrepancy. In spr2 hypocotyls, microtubule orientations were still distributed broadly, but the average angles of microtubule arrays were shifted toward left-handed orientations. Analysis of the SPR2ox;spr2 line revealed that overexpression of SPR2 complemented this moderate defect in microtubule orientations of spr2. Moreover, the spr2sp2l double mutant showed a considerably sharper distribution of microtubule orientations, which were biased toward left-handed arrays. Similar analyses of microtubule orientations in the epidermal cells of 7-day-old petioles (supplementary material Fig. S2) further confirmed our observation that the lack of SPR2/SP2L biases microtubule orientations toward left-handed arrays.   [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]]   [[FIGURE]] We next monitored the dynamic plus end of cortical microtubules in the epidermal cells of hypocotyls, and calculated the velocities of growth and shrinkage, frequencies of phase transition between growth, shrinkage, and pause, and the total time spent in these three phases (Fig. 5). Since plant microtubules exhibit dynamic behavior far more often than animal microtubules (e.g. CITATION), pauses in our in vivo studies were defined as a state during which a growth rate of less than 1 μm/minute continued for more than 4 seconds. This minimum period in the pause definition is shorter than the values generally used for animal studies [e.g. 30 seconds in Brittle and Ohkura (CITATION)], and thus our pauses include mini-pauses. Most of the dynamics parameters of wild type, spr2, spr2sp2l and SPR2ox;spr2 were not remarkably different. Microtubule dynamicity, a composite measurement of all the tubulin dimers gained or lost per unit time (CITATION), was statistically indistinguishable among the four samples as well. However, statistically significant difference (Student's t-test; P<0.005) was observed between spr2 (0.131±0.032; mean ± s.d.) and SPR2ox;spr2 (0.068±0.019) in the time spent in the pause state (Fig. 5C,E). The plus end of microtubules in spr2 cells spent considerably more time in the stationary pausing state than did that of SPR2ox;spr2 cells, whereas the wild-type and spr2sp2l values were in between the two. To categorize the paused state more precisely, we took into account the previous history of microtubules to see whether a growing or shrinking microtubule resulted in the pause. This analysis revealed that, during the growth phase, microtubules of spr2 and spr2sp2l tend to be halted in pauses, compared with growing microtubules of wild-type and SPR2ox;spr2. To further evaluate the plus-end state of microtubules in planta, we monitored the dynamics of GFP-EB1, which continuously tracked the plus end of polymerizing microtubules as comets (Fig. 6). In epidermal cells of wild-type hypocotyls, the trajectory of GFP-EB1 generally followed a largely straight path. Occasionally, a growing microtubule changed its path abruptly to a new direction at a shallow angle (mostly <15 degrees; arrows in Fig. 6A), probably reflecting a collision event with another microtubule and subsequent incorporation into a microtubule bundle (CITATION). The kymographs of such curved trajectories of GFP-EB1 showed uninterrupted linear tracks without gaps, indicating that growing microtubules were not stalled by the microtubule-microtubule collision events. In contrast, GFP-EB1 comets in spr2 cells frequently deviated from a linear trajectory (supplementary material Table S1), and the abrupt curving events occurred multiple times (up to five times) during the life of a single microtubule (Fig. 6B and supplementary material Movie 5). Another notable feature of GFP-EB1 dynamics in spr2 cells was that the EB1-labeled microtubule ends frequently stalled for several seconds, and then started to track a new growth path again at the previous velocity. This irregular movement of GFP-EB1 in the absence of SPR2 was typically shown in the kymographs where the linear trajectory of GFP-EB1 was interrupted by vertical gaps of several seconds. GFP-EB1 was partly retained at the stalled plus end, especially at the beginning of the pause. Not only did the frequency of pauses increase but longer pauses of 8 seconds or more were almost only observed in spr2 cells (supplementary material Table S2). Some of the abrupt changes in the GFP-EB1 trajectory occurred during the paused state, but other turns happened during continuous growth, as seen in wild-type cells. When the growth velocity of the plus end was measured with the aid of GFP-EB1 in epidermal cells of hypocotyl and petiole, the distribution in spr2 cells was slightly shifted toward slower growth rates, as seen in the greater proportion of slowly growing microtubules compared with the wild-type distribution (Fig. 6C). Notably, the plus end in spr2 cells spent about 6% (5.5% in hypocotyl cells and 5.8% in petiole cells) of the growth phase in the paused state; in wild-type cells, the paused state accounted for less than 1% of the total life of plus ends. We conclude that SPR2 secures uninterrupted growth at the plus end of cortical microtubules in plant cells. Altered microtubule behavior in the spr2 mutant suggests that SPR2 protein modulate microtubule functions directly. To test this possibility, we analyzed the effects of recombinant SPR2 and SP2L proteins on the microtubule dynamics in vitro. SP2L was included in the in vitro assay because it has a redundant and similar function to SPR2 as shown above, and because recombinant SP2L bound to taxol-stabilized microtubules in vitro (supplementary material Fig. S3). SPR2 and SP2L were produced in E. coli as proteins fused to the trigger factor (TF), which enhanced the solubility of the recombinant proteins, and purified to apparent homogeneity. Dynamics of microtubules was analyzed by using dark-field microscopy, and parameters of microtubule dynamics were quantified for both plus and minus ends. In our in vitro assay, we set the incubation temperature at 27°C, instead of the usually used 30°C. At this lower temperature, dynamic instability was moderately reduced so that otherwise infrequent pauses could be observed more readily. In this in vitro assay, a microtubule growth state during which a growth rate of less than 0.15 μm/minute continued for more than 30 seconds was counted as a pause.   [[FIGURE]] When supplied at 0.2 μM or 0.4 μM, TF-SPR2 and TF-SP2L did not considerably affect velocities of growth and shrinkage of the plus end (Fig. 7B), whereas transition frequencies from growth to pause and from shrinkage to pause tended to be suppressed (Fig. 7C). These changes in dynamicity manifest in a decreased total period spent in pauses and an increased time spent in the growth phase (Fig. 7D). The reduced pausing time contributed to a moderate increase in dynamicity at the plus end (Fig. 7E). Statistical significance, however, was assigned only to a few parameters, due to high intrinsic variability among the dynamics of individual microtubules. At the minus end, TF-SRR2 and TF-SP2L also showed a tendency to suppress pauses and to increase the time spent in growth, although the values of dynamics were not so affected (supplementary material Fig. S4). Overall, recombinant SPR2 and SP2L proteins (in their TF-fused forms) promoted microtubule dynamicity by suppressing the paused state and prolonging the growth duration. We confirmed the polymerization-promoting activity of SPR2 by using a turbidity assay (Fig. 7F). TF-SPR2 at 0.5 μM significantly promoted the formation of microtubule polymers from the 17.5 μM tubulin solution at 37°C, compared with the TF control at the same concentration. Both SPR2 and SP2L contain an N-terminal Ser/Thr-rich region and nine predictable HEAT-repeat motifs which are clustered in the N-terminal half of the protein. To identify microtubule-binding region(s), we expressed various SPR2 fragments fused to thioredoxine and polyhistidine in E. coli, and purified them to near homogeneity. The N-terminal region containing the Ser/Thr-rich region and the first seven HEAT motifs (SPR21-331) and the C-terminal region containing the eighth and ninth HEAT motifs (SPR2498-864) bound taxol-stabilized microtubules almost as efficiently as the full-length SPR2, but the middle region (SPR2327-499) did not (Fig. 8). The fusion of these fragments to glutathione S-transferase (GST) gave the same results, although microtubule-binding GST-SPR2 showed considerable microtubule-bundling activity, probably due to the artificial dimerization caused by GST (supplementary material Fig. S5). On testing smaller fragments of the N-terminal SPR2 region, we narrowed down the moderate microtubule-binding activity to a fragment only consisting of the fourth and fifth HEAT motifs (SPR2163-248). These results indicate that SPR2 contains at least two distinct microtubule-binding regions and that a tandem repeat of two SPR2-HEAT motifs possesses significant affinity for microtubule polymers. When the N-terminal, middle and C-terminal regions (SPR21-331, SPR2327-502 and SPR2498-864, respectively) were fused to the N-terminus of GFP and expressed stably under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter in tobacco BY-2 cells, the fusion proteins did not label cortical microtubules (supplementary material Fig. S6). The same constructs did not complement the twisting phenotype of spr2-2, either (data not shown). These results suggest that efficient in vivo localization to cortical microtubules and microtubule-regulating function require a nearly full-length SPR2 protein.   [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The spr2-2 and spr2-3 mutant alleles have been described (CITATION). A T-DNA insertion allele of SP2L, sp2l-1, was isolated from mutant pools at the Arabidopsis Knockout Facility of the University of Wisconsin Biotechnology Center, whereas sp2l-3 (SALK_142747) was ordered from the SALK T-DNA insertion line collection. The SPR2 overexpression line in the spr2-2 background was described previously (CITATION). GFP-TUB6 and GFP-EB1b microtubule-labeling lines were described previously (CITATION; CITATION). Plants were grown as described previously (CITATION). Petiole rotation, root angle and root length were measured for seedlings grown on a nutrient medium solidified with 1.0% (w/v) agar. The Isolation and manipulation of DNA were performed by using standard molecular techniques. After the SPR2 genomic region including a 2035-bp region 5′ upstream of the initiation ATG and a 964-bp region 3′-downstream of the stop codon was subcloned into pDONR221 by PCR and BP reactions, KpnI and NotI sites were introduced in place of the stop codon by PCR. The SP2L genomic fragment prepared similarly contained a 2531-bp 5′-upstream region and a 1038-bp 3′-downstream region. A duplicated GFP fragment was excised as a KpnI-NotI fragment from pBS-2xrsGFP (CITATION), and inserted into the C-termini of SPR2 and SP2L in the above vectors. The SPR2-SP2L–GFP genomic fragments were then transferred to a Gateway binary vector pGWB1 (CITATION) by the LB reaction. A full-length SP2L cDNA was cloned downstream of the CaMV 35S promoter in pBI121 (Clontech). These binary vectors were introduced into the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain MP90 and then used to transform Arabidopsis plants (wild type and mutant alleles) by the floral dip method (CITATION). Fluorescent images of SPR2-GFP and SP2L-GFP in transgenic plants were observed using a confocal laser-scanning microscopy (Nikon C1-ECLIPSE E600). The vector pTH-SPR2 has been described previously (CITATION). Full-length SPR2 and SP2L cDNAs were cloned into pColdTF (Takara) that had been digested with KpnI-SalI and KpnI-BamHI, respectively. SPR2 cDNA fragments were cloned into KpnI-SalI-digested pET32b (Novagen). Recombinant proteins were produced in the E. coli strain BL21 DE3 or Rosetta DE3 (Novagen). Proteins were extracted by sonication and affinity-purified by using Ni-Sepharose resin (GE Healthcare) or Ni-NTA resin (Qiagen), according to the manufacturers' instructions. The eluted proteins were further purified by anion-exchange chromatography using Q-Sepharose fast-flow resin (GE Healthcare). The buffer of the purified recombinant proteins was changed to the PEM buffer (0.1 M PIPES pH 7.0, 1 mM EGTA, 1 mM MgCl2, 1 mM DTT and 1 mM PMSF) by passing through the PD-10 column (GE Healthcare). RNA was extracted using the RNeasy Plant Mini kit (Qiagen), and first-strand cDNAs were synthesized from total RNA with SuperScript II reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen). The SPR2 and SP2L cDNA were amplified by PCR using SPR2- and SP2L-specific primers; 5′-TGGTGCAGTCCCTCGTCCAACC-3′ and 5′-GTTCCATTGGAACTCCAAACGT-3′ for SPR2; 5′-CTGTGGAACATCAAGGAATAGG-3′ and 5′-ACTCCAACGGTATTCCCATAAA-3′ for SP2L. Simultaneous detection of both SPR2 and SP2L cDNAs was performed using common primers that recognized sequences conserved in SPR2 and SP2L cDNAs; 5′-GCA[C/G][T/C]T[G/A]GAGAGACAACAAAC-3′ and 5′-GG[A/C]GC[T/A][A/G]GACCTTCCCAGTC-3′. Actin 8 was used as a control (CITATION). Four-day-old seedlings expressing GFP-TUB6 or GFP-EB1b were used for the analysis of microtubule dynamics in the epidermal cells of upper hypocotyl and lower petiole, and in cotyledon guard cells. We used a DMRE microscope (Leica) equipped with a CSU10 scanning head (Yokogawa, Tokyo, Japan) and ORCA-ERCCD camera (Hamamatsu Photonics, Shizuoka, Japan). Images were taken every 2 or 4 seconds during the course of 5 or 6 minutes. The length of microtubules and the movement of EB1 were measured using Scion Image (http://www.scioncorp.com/) with previously developed plugins (CITATION). We defined the pause state as the period when no significant change in microtubule length (<1 μm/minute) occurs for more than 4 seconds. The track of GFP-EB1 and kimographs were drawn by ImageJ version 1.37 (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij) with previously developed plugins (CITATION). Images of cortical microtubule arrays in epidermal cells were taken from an upper region of hypocotyls and the basal part of petioles of GFP-TUB6 seedlings by confocal laser-scanning microscopy. The microtubule angles were determined with respect to the cell's longitudinal axis by ImageJ. Tubulin was isolated from porcine brain by two cycles of polymerization and depolymerization and was purified by Resource Q column chromatography (GE Healthcare) as described previously (CITATION). Microtubule co-sedimentation assays were done basically as described previously (CITATION). Taxol-stabilized microtubules and recombinant SPR2/SP2L fragments with various tags were incubated at 37°C for 15 minutes, the mixtures were centrifuged at 100,000 g for 10 minutes. Proteins in the supernatant and the pellet were separated by 15% (Ne, Nf), 12.5% (Na, Nb, Nc and Nd), and 10% (others) SDS-PAGE and then stained with Coomassie Brilliant Blue or detected by immunoblotting using 6×His monoclonal antibody (BD Biosciences). Bovine serum albumin (Pierce) was used as a control. Microtubule dynamics were observed in vitro by dark-field microscopy (Nikon ECLIPSE E600 with a Nikon dark-field condenser), according to Nakao et al. (CITATION). In vitro microtubule dynamics were observed by dark-field microscopy. Tubulin at a concentration of 30 μM was polymerized in PEM buffer containing 1 mM GTP. After incubation for 5 minutes at 37°C, an equal volume of TF-SPR2, TF-SP2L or TF was added to make a final concentration of 15 μM for tubulin and 0.2 or 0.4 μM for recombinant proteins. To measure changes in microtubule length, we used the video images incorporated into a Power Mac G4 with the aid of an image capture board (LG3; Scion) in real time using NIH Image. The faster growing end of microtubules is referred to as the plus end while the slower growing end is defined as the minus end. We defined a pause as a growth period in which no significant microtubule change in length (<0.15 μm/minute) occurs for more than 30 seconds.
