!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis genome has six families of dynamin-related proteins. One of these families includes DRP2A and DRP2B. The domain structures of proteins of this family are most similar to those of the animal endocytosis protein, dynamin. In this study, the signals of GFP-tagged DRP2B were strongly detected in the cell plate of Arabidopsis root tip cells and tobacco cultured cells. Time-lapse observations of these signals during cytokinesis in tobacco cultured cells suggested that DRP2B mainly localized to the newly formed part of the cell plate, and that the localization dynamics of DRP2B was quite similar to that of DRP1A, which is an Arabidopsis dynamin-related protein that is closely related to soybean phragmoplastin. These results indicate that Arabidopsis dynamin-related proteins, DRP1A and DRP2B, from two different families, participate in membrane remodeling at a similar place in the cell plate.
!~RES~! To investigate DRP2B localization, we observed GFP fusions of DRP2B (GFP-DRP2B), which was under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter, in Arabidopsis root tip cells and BY-2 cells (Fig. 1, upper left panel, shown in green). The endomembrane compartments where DRP2B was expected to localize, including the cell plate, were visualized with a styryl dye FM4-64 (Fig. 1, upper center panel, shown in red). FM4-64 has been used in many plant studies as an in vivo endocytic marker (e.g., Dhonukshe et al. CITATION; Ueda et al. CITATION). In Arabidopsis root tip cells, GFP-DRP2B signals were detected in the cytosol in a dot-like pattern (Fig. 1, upper right panel, arrowheads), and some of them co-localized with the FM4-64 signals. In dividing cells, these signals were strongly detected in the cell plate stained with FM4-64 (Fig. 1, upper right panel, arrows). In dividing tobacco BY-2 cells, GFP-DRP2B signals were also detected in the cell plate (Fig. 1, lower right panel, arrows). Much weaker GFP signals were also detected in the cytosol. These results suggest that GFP-labeled DRP2B strongly localizes to the cell plate. [[FIGURE]]  In tobacco BY-2 cells, immediately before cytokinesis, weak FM4-64 and GFP-DRP2B signals were detected in the cytosol, mainly around the plasma membrane and around nucleus (Fig. 2a, 0 min, upper and lower-middle panels). At the beginning of cytokinesis, FM4-64 and GFP-DRP2B signals were detected over the nucleus (Fig. 2a, 18 min). In the early stage of cell plate formation, cell plates stained with FM4-64 and GFP-DRP2B signals emerged in the center of the division plane and subsequently expanded to the outer cell cortex (Fig. 2a, 54 and 72 min). In the early stage of cell plate formation, the FM4-64 and GFP-DRP2B signals almost corresponded with each other (Fig. 2a, 54 and 72 min). However, at the later stages, the GFP-DRP2B signals mainly localized to the leading edge of the cell plate (Fig. 2a, 90 min, arrows in lower panels), and disappeared from the central region where cell plate formation was thought to be completed (Fig. 2a, 90 and 108 min, arrowheads in lower panels). These results indicate that DRP2B localized dynamically to the newly synthesized parts of the cell plate. [[FIGURE]]  In the early stage of cell plate formation, FM4-64 signals accumulated in the division plane (Fig. 2b, upper-middle panels). GFP-DRP2B signals started to localize to the division plane shortly after the FM4-64 signals appeared (Fig. 2b, lower-middle panels). This result suggests that accumulation of DRP2B to the division plane occurred shortly after the membrane stained with FM4-64 in the early stage of cell plate formation. To compare the localization dynamics of DRP2 during cell plate formation to that of DRP1 family protein, we observed the GFP fusions of DRP2B and monomeric RFP (RFP) fusions of DRP1A during cell plate formation in the same living BY-2 cell. In tobacco BY-2 cell plate formation (Fig. 3, upper panels), GFP-DRP2B signals were localized to the newly synthesized part (Fig. 3, upper-middle panels, shown in green). RFP fusions of DRP1A signals were also localized to the newly synthesized part (Fig. 3, lower-middle panels, shown in red). The GFP and RFP signals were well co-localized temporally and spatially in the forming cell plate throughout the course of cytokinesis (Fig. 3, lower panels). This result suggests that the localization dynamics of DRP2B is quite similar to that of DRP1A. [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~!  Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia-0) and its transformant were grown under 22°C under diurnal 14 h light (100 μmol m2 s−1). Bright yellow-2 (BY-2) tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) cell suspension cultures were grown in modified Murashige and Skoog medium enriched with 0.2 mg l−1 2-4-D and were maintained as described in previous study (Nagata et al. CITATION). Three-day-old BY-2 cells were used in the microscopic observations. We obtained an EST clone of DRP2B (GenBank accession no. AV528687) from Kazusa DNA Research Institute (Chiba, Japan) and a cDNA clone of DRP1A (GenBank accession no. BT001063) from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (Columbus, OH, USA). Plasmids harboring DRP2B and DRP1A were constructed using Gateway cloning technology (Invitrogen). The open reading frames of DRP2B and DRP1A were amplified from the EST clone and full-length cDNA clone by PCR, using the following primer sets respectively (DRP2B: 5′-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTCGATGGAGGCGATCGATG-3′ and 5′-GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTCTAATACCTGTAAGATGA-3′, DRP1A: 5′-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTCGATGGAAAATCTGATCTCTC-3′ and 5′-GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTTCACTTGGACCAAGCAACAG-3′). The underlined sequences are needed for subcloning the PCR product into the pDONR207 Gateway donor vector via BP recombinant reaction. The resulting entry vectors were used in LR reactions with the destination binary vector pK7WGF2 and pH7WGR2 (Flanders Interuniversity Institute for Biotechnology, Belgium) to link GFP and monomeric RFP to the N-termini of DRP2B and DRP1A, respectively (Karimi et al. CITATION). Ti plasmids harboring GFP-DRP2B were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58C1. The transformation of Arabidopsis plants was performed by using transformed A. tumefaciens via floral dipping (Clough and Bent CITATION). Transgenic T1 plants were selected on plates containing solid modified MS medium containing 1% sucrose and 50 mg l−1 kanamycin. Ti plasmids harboring GFP-DRP2B and monomeric RFP-DRP1A were individually transformed into A. tumefaciens strain EHA105. A 5 ml aliquot of 3-day-old BY-2 cells was incubated with 100 μl of the overnight culture of the A. tumefaciens with Ti plasmids harboring GFP-DRP2B as the method described previously (An CITATION). After 48 h incubation at 27°C, cells were washed four times in 5 ml of modified MS medium, then plated onto solid modified MS medium containing 200 mg l−1 claforan and 50 mg l−1 kanamycin. After 3 weeks, selected calli were transferred onto new plates and cultured for 2 weeks additionally. As each callus reached a size of 1–2 cm in diameter, it was transferred to 95 ml of new modified MS medium with 200 mg l−1 claforan and 50 mg l−1 kanamycin, and cultured in a rotary shaker at 130 rpm at 27°C in the dark. After 3 weeks, we selected suitable cell lines expressing GFP-DRP2B at the appropriate level for fluorescent microscopic observation. Transgenic BY-2 cells expressing GFP-DRP2B and monomeric RFP-DRP1A were established by introducing the expression of monomeric RFP-DRP1A into the cell line expressing GFP-DRP2B as the method described above with the A. tumefaciens EHA105 with Ti plasmids harboring monomeric RFP-DRP1A. Transformants were selected on plates containing solid modified MS medium containing 200 mg l−1 claforan, 50 mg l−1 kanamycin and 50 mg l−1 hygromycin. FM4-64 [N-(3-triethylammonium-propyl)-4-(6-(4-(diethylamino)phenyl)hexatrienyl) pyridinium dibromide, Invitrogen] dissolved in water was applied at a 33 μM final concentration for 3 min to Arabidopsis plants or BY-2 cells. These Arabidopsis plants and BY-2 cells were washed with modified MS medium to remove excess dye and used in microscopic observations. Transgenic Arabidopsis root and BY-2 cells expressing fluorescent fusion proteins were subjected to vital imaging by using a fluorescence microscope (Nikon TE2000-U and a 100 × 1.4 numerical aperture objective) and a confocal laser scanning microscopic (CLSM) system (MicroRadiance MR/AG-2, Bio-Rad). Arabidopsis root stained with FM4-64 were placed on glass slides without any treatment. During microscopic observation, BY-2 cells stained with FM4-64 were cultured in 35 mm glass bottom dishes (Matsunami, Japan) at 27°C in the stage-top incubator (TOKAI HIT, Japan). The samples were illuminated with an argon ion laser (488 nm wavelength) for GFP and a green HeNe laser (543 nm wavelength) for FM4-64 and monomeric RFP. To eliminate the crosstalk of the GFP and monomeric RFP signals, these two fluorescent molecules were sequentially excited by 488 and 543 nm laser and also detected sequentially. All CLSM images were acquired in a single focal plane. Acquired images were prepared and analyzed with Photoshop 7.0 (Adobe Systems, USA) and Image pro plus 4.0 (Media Cybernetics, USA).
