!~ABS~! Similar to the situation in mammalian cells and yeast, messenger ribonucleo protein (mRNP) homeostasis in plant cells depends on rapid transitions between three functional states, i.e. translated mRNPs in polysomes, stored mRNPs and mRNPs under degradation. Studies in mammalian cells showed that whenever the dynamic exchange of the components between these states is disrupted, stalled mRNPs accumulate in cytoplasmic aggregates, such as stress granules (SGs) or processing bodies (PBs). We identified PBs and SGs in plant cells by detection of DCP1, DCP2 and XRN4, as marker proteins for the 5′→3′ mRNA degradation pathway, and eIF4E, as well as the RNA binding proteins RBP47 and UBP1, as marker proteins for stored mRNPs in SGs. Cycloheximide-inhibited translation, stress treatments and mutants defective in mRNP homeostasis were used to study the dynamic transitions of mRNPs between SGs and PBs. SGs and PBs can be clearly discriminated from the previously described heat stress granules (HSGs), which evidently do not contain mRNPs. Thus, the role of HSGs as putative mRNP storage sites must be revised.
!~RES~! To confirm the recent identification of PBs in Arabidopsis thaliana (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) we used GFP-tagged DCP1 as a marker protein. After expression in tobacco mesophyll protoplasts, the intracellular distribution of DCP1 showed the characteristic dynamic changes (Figure 1a). Initially, DCP1 was found to be distributed in the cytoplasm with few cytoplasmic foci, but rapidly accumulated after a short time period of incubation of the living protoplasts under a coverslip. The number of foci varied from cell to cell. Similar results were obtained for GFP-XRN4 (Figure 1b and data not shown), but not for GFP-DCP2. One possible explanation is that GFP influenced the function of DCP2 or that, in contrast with GFP-DCP1 and GFP-XRN4, DCP2 localizes only transiently to PBs (see below). [[FIGURE]] The rapid aggregation of DCP1 under these conditions was most likely induced by the hypoxic conditions under the coverslip. Using RFP-DCP1 and GFP-XRN4, we observed co-localization for both proteins (Figure 1b). To test if the two proteins are found in the same protein complexes, we used the bimolecular fluorescence complementation analysis (BIFC) system (CITATION; CITATION), also including DCP2 as an integral part of an active decapping complex. The N- and C-YFP tagged proteins were co-expressed in tobacco mesophyll protoplasts and analyzed by live cell fluorescence microscopy (Figure 1c). Interactions of DCP1 with DCP1, DCP2 with DCP2, DCP1 with DCP2, DCP1 with XRN4, and DCP2 with XRN4 could be clearly detected in cytoplasmic foci. The corresponding vector controls were negative. Neither fusion protein alone nor fusion proteins in combination with N- or C-YFP showed any fluorescence (Figure 1c and data not shown). The observation that DCP1, DCP2 and XRN4 interact in cytoplasmic foci provides evidence that these factors are in the same complexes. Most likely, they are bound to mRNA, but a direct proof of the presence of mRNA is lacking. Our results are basically consistent with results published previously (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) demonstrating the existence of PBs in plants. Minor differences in the details can be ascribed to different experimental systems and procedures. To further characterize the endogenous PBs in A. thaliana, we raised a polyclonal antiserum against glutathione S-transferase (GST)-purified DCP1 from A. thaliana. Using this antiserum, with protein extracts from major organs and cell cultures of A. thaliana (Figure 2a), a major double band (black arrowheads), with an apparent molecular weight of about 50 kDa, and a third band, with a weight of 43 kDa (grey arrowhead), were detected (lanes 3 and 4). A similar but slightly larger double band was also detectable if DCP1-Strep was expressed in tobacco protoplasts (lane 2). In contrast, controls with extracts for protoplasts transformed with empty vector (lane 1), as well as using a pre-immune serum, revealed no signal (Figure 2a, lower panel). The apparent size is different to the expected size of 41 kDa. The two bands might represent different modified forms of Dcp1. For example it was shown that yeast and mammalian Dcp1 also migrate as two separable forms on SDS gels, and Dcp1p is evidently modified by phosphorylation (CITATION; LaGrandeur et al., 1998;CITATION). On the other hand, the 43-kDa band might represent a degradation product of Dcp1. The DCP1 levels in leaves, roots, green siliques and seeds (Figure 2a, lanes 5–8) were much lower than in A. thaliana cell cultures and flower buds (lanes 3 and 4), or were even below the detection level. We further confirmed the specificity of the DCP1 antiserum in an immunofluorescence analysis with tobacco protoplasts expressing GFP-DCP1 (Figure 2b). [[FIGURE]] Next, we used the DCP1 antiserum to investigate conditions of PB formation in native tissues of A. thaliana. As shown earlier (Figure 1c), PBs are very dynamic, and change their size rapidly in response to any type of disruption of mRNP homeostasis (CITATION; CITATION). Such a situation is found in the xrn4-5 A. thaliana T-DNA insertion mutant (CITATION). Detection of DCP1 in mesophyll protoplasts of the xrn4-5 line revealed strongly increased foci, as compared with the mesophyll protoplasts from wild-type (wt) plants (Figure 3a, compare 1 and 2). This result is consistent with the role of XRN4 in the 5′→3′ degradation of mRNA in plants (CITATION; CITATION). The observations suggest that the increased structures of PBs result from an accumulation of mRNPs that cannot be degraded. To corroborate these conclusions, we treated A. thaliana wt and xrn4-5 protoplasts with cycloheximide to block mRNA release from polysomal complexes. The state of DCP1-containing foci was determined 15 min after cycloheximide treatment. Whereas no changes were visible in the wt or mock-treated cells (Figure 3a, samples 1 and 3), we observed a marked reduction in the size and number of foci in the xrn4-5 line (Figure 3a, compare 2 and 4). These results are consistent with observations in yeast and mammalian cells, showing that the size of PBs depends on the relation of the influx of non-translated mRNA and their subsequent degradation (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Besides cycloheximide treatment, stress conditions are well known to influence the balance between mRNA translation, storage and degradation (Figure 1a; CITATION). To investigate the influence of stress on the distribution of DCP1, we examined the root tips of 4-day-old wt and xrn4-5 seedlings grown under control, hypoxic or heat stress conditions, respectively (Figure 3b). We rarely observed PBs in wt seedlings under control conditions, whereas many tiny foci were found in root cells of xrn4-5 seedlings (Figure 3b, compare 1 and 4). In contrast to this, the size and number of PBs increased in both types of seedlings under hypoxic stress (Figure 3b, samples 2 and 5). Under heat stress conditions, a strong increase of PB size was observed in wt seedlings (Figure 3b, sample 3), but not in the xrn4-5 mutant (Figure 3b, sample 6). To explain this unexpected result, it is tempting to speculate that XRN4 not only plays a role as a 5′→3′ exonuclease, but also as a structural component of PBs formed under heat stress conditions. Alternatively, mRNA degradation through the 3′→5′ degradation pathway might be enhanced in these mutants. In summary, our results show that PBs are dynamic structures involved in mRNA degradation, and that they are connected with the pool of translated mRNA. Heat stress granules (HSG) were identified as aggregates of electron-dense cytoplasmic particles containing HSPs of the HSP20 and HSP70 families as the dominant components (Nover et al., 1983, 1989). HSGs are formed during long-term heat stress, and are found in all tissues and plant species investigated so far. Analysis of the composition of HSGs revealed that translationally silenced housekeeping mRNPs are stored in the HSGs (Nover et al., 1983, 1989). In contrast to this, SGs, as described for mammalian cells, are not dependent on the presence of HSPs. The formation of SGs under stress conditions requires the RNA binding protein TIA-1 harbouring a prion domain, and includes translation initiation factors as well as polyA+ mRNA (CITATION; Kedersha et al., 1999, 2000). To investigate a possible relationship between HSGs and SGs in plants, we performed a co-localization analysis of polyA+ mRNA and HSP17 as a marker for HSGs in heat-stressed tomato cell cultures (Figure 4a). The analysis revealed two types of distinct cytoplasmic complexes: polyA+ mRNA granules (hereafter called SGs), which became apparent after 15 min, and the HSGs, which could be detected after 1 h of heat stress. This observation suggested that SGs also exist in plants beside the HSGs. To support these conclusions, we tested the localization of other proteins typically associated with SGs. [[FIGURE]] To test if the SGs harbour translation initiation factors, we studied the co-localization of polyA+ mRNA and translation initiation factors eIF4E and eIF2α in heat-stressed tomato cell cultures. The translation initiation factor eIF2α was used as a control because in mammalian cells it is not recruited to SGs (CITATION). The translation initiation factors were detected by using a specific antiserum (Figure 4c). Under control conditions, the eIF2α and eIF4E, as well as the polyA+ mRNA, were found to be dispersed in the cytoplasm (Figure 4c). After 30 mins of heat stress, both eIF4E and the polyA+ mRNA aggregated together in cytoplasmic granules (Figure 4c, samples 3 and 7), whereas the eIF2α remained dispersed in the cytoplasm (Figure 4c, sample 4). In Nicotiana plumbaginifolia and A. thaliana, two nuclear proteins (UBP1 and RBP47) were identified as components of pre-mRNA splicing, and they are evidently related to mammalian TIA-1 (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; Figure S1). These proteins also have a glutamine-rich prion-related domain (PRD; CITATION; CITATION), in addition to three RNA recognition motifs (RRM) that share sequence homology with the human TIA-1 protein (Figure S1). The analysis of a fluorescent tagged version of RBP47 revealed a localization in the nucleus under control conditions, but relocalization to cytoplasmic granules under heat stress (Figure 5a, samples 1 and 7). Using a monoclonal antibody, we detected that RBP47 was mainly co-localized with polyA+ mRNA (Figure 4b). [[FIGURE]] To test if the RBP47 homologue UBP1 behaves in an identical manner, we analysed the localization of fluorescent tagged versions of UBP1 and translation initiation factors in tobacco mesophyll protoplasts (Figure 5, samples 4, 5, 10 and 11; Figure 6b, samples 1 and 2). The results were identical for UBP1 and RBP47. Moreover, we could show that UBP1 co-localizes with RBP47 (Figure 6a, sample 1). In summary, these results show that polyA+ mRNA, translation initiation factors and UBP1/RBP47 are recruited together to cytoplasmic structures under stress conditions. The results are similar to observations made with mammalian cells, and provide evidence for the existence of SGs in plants. [[FIGURE]] Heat stress is known to cause a polysomal run-off of house-keeping mRNAs (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). It is reasonable to assume that the rapid accumulation of mRNP in SGs is connected with this phenomenon. To further characterize the SGs and their components, we used tobacco mesophyll protoplasts transiently overexpressing fluorescent protein (GFP, CFP and RFP) tagged proteins. We used cycloheximide combined with heat stress treatment of tobacco mesophyll protoplasts to identify a possible connection with the pool of translated mRNA (Figure 5d). As the analysis of RBP47 and UBP1 revealed a co-localization in the SGs (Figure 6a, sample 1), we used both as marker proteins for the SGs. As expected, mock-treated cells showed the relocalization of GFP-RBP47 and GFP-UBP1 in cytoplasmic SGs after heat stress. In contrast, in cycloheximide-treated cells the SG formation was blocked (compare Figure 5a, samples 7 and 10, with Figure 5d, samples 3 and 4). We obtained similar results when GFP-eIF4E was used as an SG marker protein (Figure 5b and 5d). We conclude from these observations that the SGs are in a dynamic exchange with polysomes, and that their assembly depends on the release of untranslated mRNPs from polysomes. It cannot be ruled out that newly synthesized proteins are required for the formation of SGs, but as these SGs are formed rapidly (in less than 15 min; Figure 4a), this seems to be very unlikely. To test if the RBP47/UBP1 proteins function in the same manner as mammalian TIA-1 in the sequestration of mRNA in SGs, we created truncation mutants lacking either the RRM domain (RBP47ΔRRM) or the PRD domain (RBP47ΔPRD). For UBP1, we made a mutant with amino acid exchanges in the three RRMs (UBP1rrm) known to be deficient in the RNA binding capacity (Lambermon et al., 2000, 2002). The mutant proteins, fused to GFP, were transiently expressed in tobacco mesophyll protoplast, and the localization was analyzed under control conditions and after 30 min of heat stress. For all types of mutants we observed a reduced localization to the nucleus under control conditions (Figure 5a). Interestingly, in heat-stressed protoplasts the localization of proteins harbouring mutations of the RRM remained unaffected by the heat stress (Figure 5a, samples 8 and 12). Only for RBP47ΔPRD was a slight accumulation in SGs observed (Figure 5a, sample 9). These results show that, similar to the situation in mammalian cells (CITATION), the RNA-binding capacity and the N-terminal prion-like domain is required for the localization of the RBP47 and UBP1 in SGs (Figure 5c). In mammalian cells, the TIA-1 plays a central role in the formation of the SGs. Thus, this raises the question of whether this is also true for RBP47 and UBP1. To test this possibility, we co-expressed various mutant proteins with wtRBP47, wtUBP1 or eIF4E as markers for the SGs (Figure 6). In protoplasts co-expressing the RBP47ΔPRD and the wtRBP47, the formation of SGs was stronger, compared with cells expressing RBP47ΔPRD alone (compare Figure 6, sample 3 with Figure 5, sample 9). In contrast, in protoplasts expressing the RNA binding mutants (UBP1rrm and RBP47ΔRRM), no formation of SGs was detected (Figure 6a, samples 2 and 4; Figure 6b, sample 3). Interestingly, even the co-expression of the respective wild-type proteins could not rescue the formation of SGs, indicating that the mutation of the RRM has dominant-negative effects. Although the results clearly show the differences between the three types of granules, it is possible that they are related to each other. To address this question, we analyzed the co-localization of the appropriate marker proteins in tobacco mesophyll protoplasts under control and stress conditions (see legend Figure 7). The presentation is focused on the comparison of three pairs of aggregates, i.e. HSGs versus PBs (Figure 7a), SGs versus PBs (Figure 7b) and SGs versus HSGs (Figure 7c). For the co-localization studies with marker proteins of PBs and SGs, a short-term stress of 30 min was used. However, for co-localization studies including HSGs, protoplasts were heat-stressed for 15 min, followed by a recovery period of 3 h at 25°C, and then by a subsequent 2-h heat stress. This procedure guarantees the accumulation of HSPs, which are required for the efficient assembly of HSGs (CITATION). The lack of co-localization of PB and HSG marker proteins (Figure 7a) revealed that these aggregates are clearly separate, and that there is no direct relationship between them. In contrast to this, our analysis in the SG/PB and SG/HSG pairs frequently revealed the complexes to be in close proximity (Figure 4a; Figure 7b and c). Although this does not indicate a functional interaction, the close proximity of SGs and PBs is in agreement with results reported for mammalian cells (CITATION). It is tempting to speculate that mRNPs can be directly transferred from SGs to the degradation machinery in PBs. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The isolation, purification, transformation and heat stress treatment of tobacco mesophyll protoplasts (N. plumbaginifolia) were performed as described previously (CITATION). A. thaliana (Columbia) mesophyll protoplasts from rosette leaves of 8-week-old plants were prepared and treated identically. If not indicated otherwise, 2 μg of the respective expression plasmids were transformed. Protoplasts were incubated for 20 h for further analysis. For cycloheximide experiments, the antibiotic (100 μg ml−1) was added to the respective protoplast suspension, and was then gently mixed and incubated for 15 min. The cells were then either kept under control or subjected to heat stress, and then subsequently fixed. Control cells were treated with water. Standard procedures were used for cloning and nucleic acid and protein blot analyses (CITATION; CITATION). DCP1 antiserum was raised in guinea pigs against recombinant GST-tagged DCP1 (aa 45–356; At1g08370) from A. thaliana (Eurogentec, http://www.eurogentec.com). Unless indicated otherwise, the Arabidopsis plants were grown under standard short-day conditions on synthetic medium containing 0.44% MS medium (Duchefa, http://www.duchefa.com), 2% sucrose 0.3% Gelrite. For indirect immunofluorescence analysis of root tissues, the seedlings were grown without stratification before germination for 4 days in petri dishes containing either excess sterile water to cover the seeds completely (hypoxic stress) or humid filter papers (control conditions). For heat stress experiments with seedlings grown under control conditions, the petri dishes were floated on water heated to 41°C. The xrn4-5 (Columbia) line was generously provided by Dr Pamela Green (University of Delaware, http://www.udel.edu; CITATION). A detailed description of the vectors, the cloning procedure and primers is depicted in Table S1. The cDNA clones used for the construction of plant and bacterial expression vectors were amplified with gene-specific primers introducing restriction sites by using the Phusion DNA Polymerase (Finnzymes, http://www.finnzymes.fi). Unless indicated otherwise, the complete open reading frames (ORFs) were cloned into the respective vectors. The plant expression vectors were based on a pRT series of vectors harbouring a double CaMV 35S promoter and a CaMV terminator (pRTds; CITATION). The BIFC vectors were obtained by cloning PCR-amplified sequences encoding the N-terminal (aa 1–154) and C-terminal (aa 155–238) part of YFP from expression plasmids generously provided by Klaus Harter (University of Tübingen, http://www.uni-tuebingen.de) by using primers introducing NheI and XbaI sites. Fragments were cloned into the pRTds expression vector. The respective ORFs were cloned in front of the YFP fragments. The vectors for expression of GFP-, RFP- (tdCherry, tdTomato; CITATION) and CFP-tagged proteins were obtained by using primers for amplification of the coding sequence of the respective fluorescent proteins introducing PagI and XbaI sites, and cloning into the pRTdS expression vector cut with NcoI and NheI. The cDNA was amplified from the pRSET-B-tdTomato, pRSET-B-tdCherry (generously provided by Roger Y. Tsien, University of California, San Diego, http://www.ucsd.edu), pCKGFP S65C (CatGFP; CITATION) and pECFP-C1 (Clontech, http://www.clontech.com). The respective GFP, RFP and CFP expression vectors were obtained by cloning the respective ORFs behind the fluorescent proteins. For GFP, RFP, CFP and BIFC live cell analysis, tobacco protoplasts were transformed with expression plasmids encoding the indicated proteins. Protoplasts were observed 20 h after transformation and after respective treatments under a coverslip by wide-field microscope. Tomato cell culture was cultivated and harvested as described in CITATION. The protoplasting of the tomato cell culture was performed 1 h before fixation in K3M medium without saccharose (CITATION). The tomato cell culture was incubated in cellulase/mazerozyme (CITATION) for 1 h before fixation. For indirect immunofluorescence, we followed the procedures described earlier (CITATION; CITATION), with the following modifications: for indirect immunofluorescence with Arabidopsis and Tobacco protoplast, the fixation was performed with 3.7% paraformaldehyde for 1 h. After sedimentation, cells were washed twice in PBS and transferred to poly-l-lysine-coated coverslips, and were then treated for 10 min with 0.5% Triton X-PBS solution. After being washed twice with PBS and once with PBS–1% BSA (Sigma-Aldrich, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com) for 1 h, primary and secondary antisera (see below) were diluted in a solution of 1% BSA in PBS buffer, and were then incubated for 16 h each at 4°C. Finally, protoplast preparations were washed in PBS and mounted in embedding medium containing 100 mm Tris–HCl pH 8.5, 24% glycerol, 9.6% Mowiol 4-88 (EMD, http://www.emdbiosciences.com) and 2.5% diazabicyclo-octane (DABCO; Sigma-Aldrich). For indirect immunofluorescence of whole seedlings and tomato cell culture, the specimens were additionally dehydrated in a series of increasing ethanol concentrations (70–100%), and were finally rehydrated with solutions of decreasing concentrations of ethanol after the fixation. After washing twice with 1x PBS and 2x SSC, samples were incubated with standard hybridization buffer (SHB; 50% deionized formamide in 5x SSC, 0.1%N-lauroylsarcosine, 0.02% SDS and 2% blocking reagent; Roche, http://www.roche.com) at 50°C for 16 h. Then the specimens were blocked with 1% BSA and incubated with the respective antibodies. For polyA+ mRNA detection, 0.1 ng ml−1 of a digoxigenin- or biotin-labelled polyT-50mer was added to the SHB, and was then incubated for 16 h after blocking with SHB for 1 h – both at 50°C. After washing with 2x SSC/0.1% SDS and 1x PBS, the indicated proteins or epitopes were detected. α-DCP1 (guinea pig) was used in a 1 : 700 dilution, the α-eIF anibodies (rabbit; Karen Browning, University of Texas at Austin, http://www.utexas.edu) were used in a 1:500 dilution, and the α-dig (mouse; Roche), α-biotin (Sigma-Aldrich) and α-RBP47 α-UBP1 (mouse; Zdravko Lorkovic, University of Vienna, http://www.univie.ac.at) were used in a 1:300 dilution. Streptavidin and anti-streptavidin were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich, anti-mouse, anti-guinea pig and anti-rabbit antibodies were purchased from Dianova (http://www.dianova.org) and were used as recommended by the manufacturer. Indirect immunofluorescence pictures were taken with a confocal microscope Leica TCS SP5 (Leica Microsystems, http://www.leica-microsystems.com). Images were processed with Imaris 4.1.3 (Bitplane AG, http://www.bitplane.com) and Adobe Photoshop CS2 (Adobe, http://www.adobe.com).
