!~ABS~! We found that four type II NAD(P)H dehydrogenases (ND) in Arabidopsis are targeted to two locations in the cell; NDC1 was targeted to mitochondria and chloroplasts, while NDA1, NDA2 and NDB1 were targeted to mitochondria and peroxisomes. Targeting of NDC1 to chloroplasts as well as mitochondria was shown using in vitro and in vivo uptake assays and dual targeting of NDC1 to plastids relies on regions in the mature part of the protein. Accumulation of NDA type dehydrogenases to peroxisomes and mitochondria was confirmed using Western blot analysis on highly purified organelle fractions. Targeting of ND proteins to mitochondria and peroxisomes is achieved by two separate signals, a C-terminal signal for peroxisomes and an N-terminal signal for mitochondria.
!~RES~! A ClustalW alignment of all ND sequences available from various plant species and yeast revealed the amino acid sequence SRI at the C-terminal end of Arabidopsis NDA1, NDA2 and NDB1 (and NDB3), and in a variety of ND proteins from other plants. Other PTS I type targeting signals, most notably SRM or SSI, were also found in ND sequences [bib28] ( [fig1] ). The fact that these amino acids are not present in all ND sequences suggests that this tripeptide is not required for function, opening the possibility that it may play a role in defining subcellular localisation via its peroxisomal targeting activity [bib15] . Analysis of NDC1 sequences from Arabidopsis, rice and Chlamydomonas reinhardtii predicted plastid-targeting in all three species based on the N-terminal region ( [app1] ), even though these proteins display very low levels of sequence identity in this region (data not shown). Examination of the gene constructs used in a previous study that indicated an exclusive mitochondrial localisation for these proteins, revealed that only the N-terminal region was used in the GFP fusions [bib14] , amino acids 1–55 for NDA1, 1–60 for NDA2, 1–59 for NDB1 and NDB2 and amino acids 1–83 for NDC1. The full-length cDNA for NDC1 was placed in front of GFP and its subcellular localisation examined by particle bombardment. As controls, the cells transformed with the NDC1-GFP construct were co-transformed either with plastid targeted RFP using the targeting signal of the small subunit of 1,5 ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (SSU Rubisco-RFP) or the mitochondrial alternative oxidase targeting signal (AOX-RFP). Targeting of NDC1-GFP to chloroplasts was clearly observed in Arabidopsis suspension cells ( [fig2] A), the pattern was clearly not identical to AOX-RFP but resembled that of SSU-RFP quite closely. This is in contrast to what has been previously reported where a mitochondrial localisation was concluded when the first 83 amino acids of NDC1 was used [bib14] . However we routinely observed a weaker signal, similar to the pattern obtained with AOX-RFP. Thus we tested the targeting ability in a variety of tissues, namely Arabidopsis seedlings and onion epidermal cells. Transformation of these tissues resulted in the detection of two distinct signals, a plastid signal evidenced by relatively large organelles, 2–4 μM in diameter and few in number and smaller organelles, 1 or less μM in diameter typical of a mitochondrial pattern. The mitochondrial targeting ability of NDC1 that we observed in this study is consistent with previous results using GFP and in vitro uptake assays [bib13 bib14] . To confirm that NDC1 could target to both chloroplasts and mitochondria, in vitro uptake assays with isolated Arabidopsis mitochondria and pea chloroplasts were carried out. Upon incubation with isolated chloroplasts and mitochondria the NDC1 precursor protein with a mol mass of 70 kDa was imported into a protease resistant location and processed to a mature size with a mol mass of 60 kDa ( [fig2] B, lanes 1–3). Both organelles appeared to process the precursor protein to the same mature protein, to confirm this import reactions into mitochondria and chloroplasts were loaded into the same lane to determine any small difference in mobility, none was detected ( [fig2] B, lane 4). As the translation of the precursor alone also produces a protein with a mol mass of 60 kDa, likely due to translation initiation at an internal methionine, such as amino acid 47 in NDC1. Translation initiation at internal methionine residues is frequently observed with in vitro translation lysates [bib27] . Thus we confirmed that the protease resistance was due to import into the respective organelle. Import into mitochondria was inhibited by the addition of valinomycin ( [fig2] B, lanes 5 and 6) [bib27] , and import into chloroplast inhibited by the addition of CuCl 2 ( [fig2] B, lanes 7 and 8) [bib29] . The specificity of import into the respective organelles was confirmed as the small subunit of 1,5 bisphosphate (SSU) was only imported into chloroplasts and the alternative oxidase precursor only imported into mitochondria ( [fig2] C, left panel). In order to determine the localisation of the other ND proteins, N- and C-terminal GFP fusions were made followed by particle bombardment. To determine a mitochondrial and peroxisomal pattern chimeric constructs with the AOX and KAT2 linked to GFP were used ( [fig3] A, image series 1 and 2). In the case of NDB2 attaching GFP to the C-terminal resulted in targeting to mitochondria as evidenced by co-localisation with AOX-RFP ( [fig3] A, images 3a–3c). Attaching the last 10 amino acids of NDB2 to the C-terminal end of GFP resulted in a cytosolic localisation for GFP, as evidenced by fluorescence throughout the cell, in all tissues tested ( [fig3] A, image series 4). In contrast when NDA1, NDA2 and NDB1 were tested in a similar manner both mitochondrial and peroxisomal targeting ability was detected. C-terminal fusions gave an exclusively mitochondrial localisation, based on co-localisation with AOX-RFP ( [fig3] B, images 1a–1c, 3a–3c and 5a–5c). This is consistent with the mitochondrial targeting ability previously observed with these proteins [bib14] . However when the last 10 amino acids of NDA1, NDA2 and NDB1 were placed at the C-terminal region of GFP peroxisomal targeting was observed ( [fig3] B, images 2d–2f, 4d–4f and 6d–6f). The peroxisomal targeting ability of these constructs was also detected in Arabidopsis seedlings and onion cells ( [fig3] B, images 2g and 2h, 4g and 4h and 6g and 6h). Thus we concluded that these proteins were targeted to peroxisomes in addition to mitochondria. NDB4 targeted GFP to mitochondria as previously reported ( [app1] ) [bib14] . To confirm the dual location of NDA1 in mitochondria and peroxisomes we raised antibodies against NDA1, expected to be located in both locations from results above, and NDB2, expected to be located only in mitochondria from results above. We confirmed that the NDA1 and NDB2 antibodies did not cross react with the other antigen by over-expression of the respective proteins in an in vitro translation lysate probing with Anti 6-His antibodies that detected both proteins, Anti A1 antibodies that detected only NDA1 and Anti B2 antibodies that detected only B2 ( [fig4] A). As the NDA1 antibody was raised against a fragment of the NDA1 protein on 180 amino acids that displayed 83% sequence identity with the corresponding region of NDA2 we tested if the NDA1 antibody cross reacted with NDA2. No cross reactivity was detected with full length in vitro synthesised NDA2 ( [fig4] B). Highly purified mitochondria and peroxisome fractions were isolated from Arabidopsis cells [bib26] and proteins separated by SDS–PAGE and subjected to Western blotting. In control experiments, we used antibodies against proven markers of mitochondria (TIM17-2 (Translocase of the Inner Mitochondrial membrane; [bib27] ), and peroxisomes (KAT2 (3-ketoacyl-CoA thiolase; [bib22 bib30] ). These antibodies reacted strongly with mitochondrial and peroxisomal fractions, respectively, and much more weakly with the other fraction, indicating a small degree of cross-contamination between the fractions ( [fig4] B). Densitometric analysis revealed the KAT2 signal in mitochondria was ∼5% of that detected in peroxisomes, whilst the TIM17-2 signal in peroxisomes was ∼1–2% of the signal that could be detected in mitochondria (when the blot was overexposed). Probing with antibodies raised against NDA1 resulted in the detection of a single protein band with an apparent molecular mass of 55 kDa, in both mitochondrial and peroxisome fractions ( [fig4] B). The blots indicated that there was more NDA1 protein in the peroxisomal fraction than in the mitochondrial one, confirming that these proteins are found in both compartments. Probing mitochondrial and peroxisomal fractions with antibodies raised against the NDB2 specific peptide produced a band only in the mitochondrial fraction ( [fig4] B), confirming that it can target to mitochondria but not to peroxisomes. Importantly, this latter result also shows that the very small amount of cross-contamination between the two isolated fractions cannot explain the dual localisation of the NDA1 signal. Thus the Western blot results confirm the GFP data.
!~MM~! The full length coding sequences of NDA1, NDA2, NDB1, NDB2, NDB4 and NDC1 were cloned as both N- and C-terminal GFP fusions by Gateway cloning under the control of the 35S CaMV promoter. Additionally the last 10 amino acids of NDA1, NDA2, NDB1 and NDB2 were cloned to the C-terminus of GFP. The alternative oxidase (AOX) targeting signal, the full length targeting sequence of small subunit of 1,5 ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (SSU Rubisco) and the peroxisomal targeting signal SRL of pumpkin malate synthase, were fused to red fluorescent protein (RFP) and used as mitochondrial, chloroplast and peroxisomal controls, respectively [bib22 bib23 bib24] . The constructs were used to transform Arabidopsis suspension culture cells, Arabidopsis seedlings (1–2 weeks old) and onion epidermal cells by biolistic transformation as previously outlined [bib25] . Fluorescence patterns were obtained 24 h after transformation by visualization under an Olympus BX61 fluorescence microscope, with excitation wavelengths of 460–480(GFP) and 535–555(RFP). Emissions were collected for GFP between 495 and 540 and RFP between 570 and 625, and imaged using the Cell R imaging software. To ensure no cross over in detection of signals AOX-RFP and SSU-GFP were co-transformed to ensure that the filters were detecting the appropriate signal. N- and C-terminal GFP-tagged proteins were used to transform Arabidopsis cell suspension culture, 1–2 week old Arabidopsis seedlings and onion epidermal cells by biolistic transformation as previously outlined [bib25] . For each construct to be tested three transformations were carried out, the test construct with a mitochondrial, plastidic and peroxisomal control. In vitro import assays into isolated Arabidopsis mitochondria and pea chloroplasts were carried out as previously outlined [bib23 bib25] . Antibodies were raised in rabbit against NDA1, amino acids 57–236 and the NDB2 specific peptide at amino acids 438–452 (ETDDVSKNNIELKIE). The specificity of the antibodies was tested against recombinant proteins synthesised in a wheat germ translation lysate according to manufacturers instructions (Roche, Sydney), programmed to synthesise NDA1, NDA2 and NDB2 by making linear templates by PCR as per manufactures instructions (Roche, Sydney). Mitochondria and peroxisomes were purified from 7 day old cell suspension culture using free flow electrophoresis as described by Eubel et al. [bib26] . Western blot analysis was carried out against 20 μg of mitochondrial and peroxisomal proteins separated by SDS–PAGE as previously outlined [bib27] .
