!~ABS~! Plant Golgi stacks are mobile organelles that can travel along actin filaments. How COPII (coat complex II) vesicles are transferred from endoplasmic reticulum (ER) export sites to the moving Golgi stacks is not understood. We have examined COPII vesicle transfer in high-pressure frozen/freeze-substituted plant cells by electron tomography. Formation of each COPII vesicle is accompanied by the assembly of a ribosome-excluding scaffold layer that extends approximately 40 nm beyond the COPII coat. These COPII scaffolds can attach to the cis-side of the Golgi matrix, and the COPII vesicles are then transferred to the Golgi together with their scaffolds. When Atp115-GFP, a green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein of an Arabidopsis thaliana homolog of the COPII vesicle-tethering factor p115, was expressed, the GFP localized to the COPII scaffold and to the cis-side of the Golgi matrix. Time-lapse imaging of Golgi stacks in live root meristem cells demonstrated that the Golgi stacks alternate between phases of fast, linear, saltatory movements (0.9–1.25 μm/s) and slower, wiggling motions (<0.4 μm/s). In root meristem cells, approximately 70% of the Golgi stacks were connected to an ER export site via a COPII scaffold, and these stacks possessed threefold more COPII vesicles than the Golgi not associated with the ER; in columella cells, only 15% of Golgi stacks were located in the vicinity of the ER. We postulate that the COPII scaffold first binds to and then fuses with the cis-side of the Golgi matrix, transferring its enclosed COPII vesicle to the cis-Golgi.
!~RES~! Figure 1a illustrates a tomographic slice image of a Golgi/trans-Golgi network (TGN) complex and an ER cisterna in an A. thaliana root meristem cell. The surrounding cytoplasm is crowded with cytosolic and membrane-bound ribosomes (approx. 22,000 ribosomes per μm3), which delineate the Golgi matrix as a ribosome-free zone that completely encompasses the Golgi and TGN cisternae. [[FIGURE]]  The tomographic reconstruction of the Golgi, TGN, and ER membranes as well as of the ribosome-excluding zone illustrated in Fig. 1e is based on tracings (Fig. 1b) of the membranes and of the interface region of the ribosome-free zone in each of the 579 2.25-nm thick tomographic slices of this sample. The surface of the ribosome-free zone possesses invaginations that contain ribosomes (Fig. 3), but these ribosomes do not make contact with the Golgi membranes. Identification of the cisterna types was according to the structural criteria defined by Staehelin et al. (CITATION). The model of the reconstructed Golgi stack and TGN cisternae displays a small, cis-most cisterna at the top, a characteristic set of stacked cis-, medial-, and trans- Golgi cisternae in the middle, and three TGN cisternae (red, silver, and green) on the bottom (Fig. 1d). Figure 1(d, e) provides three-dimensional (3D) views of the tomographically reconstructed Golgi stack in Fig. 1a,b in the context of the adjacent ER membranes (gold). The presence of budding vesicles (orange spheres) on the ER membranes closest to the cis-side of the Golgi stacks indicates that this ER region corresponds to an ER export site. The morphological identification of the four COPII buds and six COPII vesicles was based on the six structural criteria defined in Donohoe et al. (CITATION). In addition to COPII vesicles, 15 COPI-type vesicles were seen around the Golgi stack in Fig. 1. Among the COPI vesicles, five vesicles displayed morphological features of the COPIa-type vesicles, and they are located either in the vicinity of the cis-Golgi cisternae or at the ER-Golgi interface. The other COPI vesicles conformed to the structural criteria of the COPIb-type vesicle and are located at the immediate outside of the edges of medial and trans-Golgi cisternae and around the TGN cisterna attached to the trans-side of the Golgi stack. The complex 3D architecture of a meristem cell ER export site is seen most clearly in Fig. 1c in which the Golgi cisternae are displayed as stippled structures that do not obscure the ER membranes. Although the COPII buds are clustered, they are not being produced by one coherent membrane domain. Instead, these COPII buds are forming on three different tubular ER membrane domains and are facing in different directions. This complex geometry, together with the fact that ER export sites in these cells contain only one to four budding COPII vesicles, helps explain why it has been so difficult to identify ER export sites in high-pressure frozen meristem cells and to display more than one COPII bud profile in a single thin section or tomographic slice image [Fig. 2 and Fig. S1 in the Electronic Supplementary Material (ESM)]. In contrast to previous reports (Harris and Oparka, CITATION; Juniper et al. CITATION), we have not observed any tubular membrane connections between ER and Golgi cisternae in any of our high-pressure frozen samples. [[FIGURE]]  In our root meristem tomograms (ten tomograms containing 14 Golgi stacks), the majority of the Golgi stacks (approx. 70%) were seen adjacent to ER cisternae exhibiting COPII-type budding vesicle profiles, and approximately 90% of these budding profiles were located within 300 nm of the nearest Golgi (Figs. 1, 2, 3). Interestingly, all Golgi stacks in close apposition to ER export sites were oriented with their cis-side facing the budding COPII vesicles (Figs. 1, 2, 3). [[FIGURE]]  Figure 1e depicts the ER and Golgi membrane model shown in Fig. 1d together with the associated Golgi ribosome-excluding matrix. In our tomograms, the ribosomes were identified as small black structures with a diameter of approximately 15 nm that could be seen in six to seven sequential tomographic slices. The ribosome-excluding Golgi matrix is seen to encompass all of the Golgi and TGN cisternae, all of the COPII vesicles, as well as two of the three budding COPII vesicles (white arrowheads). The budding COPII vesicle marked by the yellow arrowhead in Fig. 1e is also surrounded by a ribosome-excluding zone, but this particular ribosome-free zone is separate from the Golgi matrix. The model shown in Fig. 1(d, e) also depicts all of the COPIa- and COPIb-type vesicles associated with this Golgi stack, and all but one of these vesicles are clearly contained within the Golgi matrix region in the model. Note that, as previously reported by Donohoe et al. (CITATION), the COPIa-type vesicles co-localize with the COPII vesicles between the budding COPII vesicles and the cis-Golgi cisternae, whereas the COPIb-type vesicles are confined to the regions around the medial- and trans-Golgi cisternae and the first TGN cisterna. The ribosome-excluding layer of a forming COPII vesicle is shown in greater detail in Fig. 3a–c. A tomographic model of the ribosome-free layer was generated to fit inside the ribosomes that came closest to the COPII vesicle surface (Fig. 3a–c). The average thickness of this ribosome-free layer was determined by plotting the ribosome density at varying distances from the three budding COPII vesicle surfaces (Fig. 4). At distances of <30 nm, the ribosome density is typically less than 5000/μm3 but increases nearly fourfold at a distance of 40 nm. Thus, we conclude that the ribosome-excluding layer is approximately 40 nm thick and that this thickness is significantly larger than the thickness of the COPII coat (approx. 12 nm, Matsuoka et al. CITATION). For comparison, we show the ribosome density distribution adjacent to the plasma membrane, where the ribosome free zone is only approximately 10 nm wide (Fig. 4 and Fig. S2 in the ESM). [[FIGURE]]  The ribosome-free layer of budding COPII vesicles can become continuous with the cis-side of a Golgi matrix, and the two connected ribosome-excluding systems appear to be an extension of the Golgi matrix that includes the budding COPII vesicle attached to the ER (Figs. 1e, 3d–f; COPII buds in Fig. 2). In Fig. 3g–i, a COPII vesicle located similarly close to the ER membrane as the one shown in Fig. 3d–f is also seen to be encompassed by a ribosome-excluding layer, but the vesicle has been severed from the ER membrane, indicating that the layer persists after vesicle release. Figure 3j–l illustrates a COPII vesicle that lies close to the edge of a small cis-most Golgi cisterna. The Golgi matrix around this vesicle is also approximately 40 nm thick and shows a bulge reminiscent of a COPII ribosome-excluding layer that has partly fused with the Golgi matrix during the course of delivery of the enclosed COPII vesicle to the cis-Golgi region of the stack. The similarities between the postulated functions of vesicle-tethering molecules and the ribosome-free layer of COPII vesicles described in this paper suggest that the two structures might be related. Two peripheral membrane proteins with long coiled-coil domains, namely, Saccharomyces cerevisiae ScUso1p and mammalian p115, have been shown to be recruited to COPII vesicle-producing ER sites and to link COPII vesicles to Golgi membranes (Cao et al. CITATION; Morsomme and Riezman CITATION; Allan et al. CITATION; Sztul and Lupashin, CITATION). These proteins have also been postulated to form a scaffold-like structure around the membranes to which they are bound (Gillingham and Munro CITATION). Recently, Latijnhouwers et al. (CITATION) reported the amino acid sequence and domain structure of an A. thaliana protein (At3g27530) that is related to both ScUso1p and p115 and localized the protein to tobacco Golgi stacks. Although the protein was named GC6 in the report, we call the protein Atp115 here based on its homology with mammalian p115. The size and domain structure of Atp115 are more similar to those of p115 than to those of ScUso1p. We cloned the cDNA of Atp115 from an A. thaliana seedling RNA extract and generated tobacco-BY2 cell lines and A. thaliana transgenic plants that express an Atp115-GFP fusion protein. We verified the expression of the full-length Atp115-GFP fusion protein in our transgenic BY-2 cell lines and A. thaliana plants by immunoblot analysis. The expression level of Atp115-GFP is lower in A. thaliana plants than in tobacco BY-2 cells (Fig. S3 in the ESM). Ultrastructural analyses of the transformed cells demonstrated that the expression of the Atp115-GFP fusion protein neither altered the overall architecture of the ER or Golgi stacks nor changed the geometry, organization, and/or number of COPII vesicles. Immunogold labeling of thin sections of Atp115-GFP-expressing cells localized the protein to COPII vesicle surfaces (Fig. 5b,e,g,h), to the space between the ER membrane and cis-Golgi cisternae (Fig. 5a,b), and to the Golgi matrix region of cis-Golgi cisternae (Fig. 5a–h). These data indicate that Atp115-GFP is contained in the ribosome-free layer of COPII vesicles. We termed this outer layer of the COPII vesicle coat the “COPII scaffold” based on the localization of the scaffold protein Atp115-GFP to the structure. [[FIGURE]]  In BY-2 cells, the Golgi stacks carry out stop-and-go movements, alternating between fast linear translocation and slower wiggling motions (Nebenführ et al. CITATION). Golgi stacks have been reported to be associated with ER export sites more frequently during the wiggling phases than during the fast, linear movement phases (Yang et al. CITATION). To characterize the dynamic behavior of Golgi stacks in root meristem cells, we have taken time-lapse movies of Golgi stacks in transgenic A. thaliana plants expressing a mannosidase I-GFP fusion protein (ManI-GFP). Although the expression of ManI-GFP in these plants is driven by a 35S promoter with duplicated enhancer elements, the ManI-GFP expression levels vary greatly among different cell and tissue types (data not shown). In the root meristem region, cells in which Golgi stacks are fluorescently labeled by ManI-GFP are only seen sporadically, but frequently enough to allow for the systematic analysis of Golgi movements in meristem cells. To delineate the boundaries of individual cells, the ManI-GFP A. thaliana seedling roots were briefly stained with FM4-64 before time-lapse imaging (Fig. 6a). Our video recordings indicate that the Golgi stacks in meristem cells also alternate between fast, linear, saltatory-type movements and slower, wiggling motions, as seen previously in BY-2 cells (Fig. S4 in the ESM, video S1 and S2 in the ESM). The 2-D speed of the saltatory Golgi stacks was 0.9–1.25 μm/s and that of wiggling Golgi stacks. was 0.03–0.4 μm/s. Of the 64 meristem cell Golgi stacks that we recorded, only ten (approx. 15%) displayed significant linear, saltatory-type movements. Incubation of the roots in 5 μM latrunculin B stopped the saltatory movements, indicating that the fast linear movements are dependent on the actin cytoskeleton (data not shown). [[FIGURE]]  The central prediction of the “ER-Golgi secretory unit” model (daSilva et al. CITATION) is that nearly 100% of Golgi stacks are stably associated with ER export sites. To investigate the nature of the COPII scaffold linkage in root meristem cells, we have determined the percentage of Golgi stacks that are connected to ER export sites by the COPII scaffold. Since the architecture of ER membranes cannot always be clearly defined in micrographs of 60-nm-thin sections of high-pressure frozen root meristem cells, we utilized electron tomography to determine the arrangement of ER membranes and budding COPII vesicles in relation to Golgi stacks. As mentioned above, of the 14 Golgi stacks fully contained in our root meristem cell tomograms, ten (71%) appeared to be associated with an ER export site, as evidenced by the presence of COPII scaffold linkages to the Golgi matrix (Figs. 1, 2). The remaining four Golgi stacks lacked the COPII scaffold connections to the ER and were located at distances of more than 300 nm from the closest ER cisterna (one example of such a non-connected, ‘free’ Golgi stack is shown in the Fig. 7). The functional uncoupling of the latter Golgi from an ER export site is supported by the fact that, on average, the free Golgi stacks had fewer COPII vesicles (1.5 COPII vesicles) near their cis cisternae than Golgi stacks associated with an ER export site (4.1 COPII vesicles). [[FIGURE]]  In gravity-sensing columella root tip cells, all of the ER membranes are confined to the cell cortex, where they form a compact ER network that excludes not only the amyloplast statoliths but also vacuoles and Golgi stacks (Fig. 8a). Due to this unique cellular architecture, Golgi stacks located in the central cytoplasm, typically several micrometers away from the closest ER, can easily be distinguished in thin-section electron micrographs from those that are close enough to the cortical ER to permit interaction with ER export sites. Thus, these cells provide an excellent model system for quantifying the number of ER-associated versus ER-free Golgi stacks without resorting to very time-consuming electron tomography analyses. Of the 53 Golgi stacks analyzed in this manner, only seven (13%) were located within possible reach of the COPII scaffold—i.e., <300 nm from the cortical ER. Further analysis demonstrated that some of these latter Golgi stacks were indeed associated with ER export sites identified by budding COPII vesicles (Fig. 8b,c). [[FIGURE]]  The tomographic data illustrated in Fig. 8c–f demonstrate that the Golgi stacks of columella cells interact with ER export sites in the same way as those in meristem cells. First, the Golgi stack always interacts via the cis-side of its Golgi matrix with the ER export site (Fig. 8c,d). Second, the Golgi matrix is always seen to be physically continuous with the COPII scaffold of at least one budding COPII vesicle (Fig. 8d). This appears to be the anchor that holds the Golgi stack to the site. Third, an ER export site is typically marked by the presence of multiple budding COPII vesicle profiles (four COPII buds in this example) and one to several COPII vesicles (Fig. 8d–f). In contrast to the Golgi seen interacting with the cortical ER export sites (Fig. 8b–f), the free Golgi stacks in the cell interior (Fig. 8g–h) are randomly oriented and show no association with any organelle. The cell interior-type Golgi stack depicted in Fig. 8h did not have any COPII vesicles in the vicinity of its cis cisternae.
!~MM~! Oligonucleotides for amplifying Atp115 cDNA were synthesized by Integrated DNA Technologies (Coralville, IA). Enzymes for the manipulation of nucleic acids were purchased from Promega (Madison, WI) or Clontech (Palo Alto, CA), unless indicated otherwise. All other reagents, unless specified, were from Sigma Chemical (St. Louis, MO).  A. thaliana ecotype Wassilewskija (WS) seedlings were grown on half-strength MS (Murashige and Skoog CITATION) solid medium (0.6% phytoagar, 1% sucrose) at 22°C under continuous light. Suspension cultures of tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) Bright Yellow 2 (BY-2) cells were maintained at the log phase by subculturing weekly in MS media at 28°C with gentle shaking (80 rpm). Atp115 cDNA was amplified from total RNA from 5-day-old A. thaliana seedlings as described in Kang et al. (CITATION). The cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter was amplified from pEZT-NL (David Ehrhardt, Carnegie Institution of Washington, Stanford, CA) and inserted into a binary GFP vector, pBK22, (Kang et al. CITATION) using HindIII-PstI sites (pBK35). The Atp115 cDNA was subcloned into the BamHI site of pBK35 (pBK37), and the ABI strain of Agrobacterium tumefaciens was transformed with pBK37. For stable transformation of BY-2 cells, 3-day-old BY-2 cells were cocultivated with the pBK37-transformed ABI cells for 2 days at 28°C. The BY-2 cells were then washed three times with MS liquid media and grown on MS solid media containing 500 μg/ml of carbenicilin and 100 μg/ml of kanamycin for 2 weeks. Using fluorescence microscopy and immunoblot analysis, a cell line that expressed a full-length Atp115-GFP was selected for further analysis. Transgenic A. thaliana plants expressing Atp115-GFP were generated by the floral dipping method as described in Kang et al. (CITATION). Root tips were excised from 5-day-old A. thaliana seedlings and transferred to a B-type aluminum planchette (Technotrade International, Manchester, NH) containing a 150 mM sucrose solution. The root-tip samples were then covered with the flat side of another B-type planchette and were rapidly frozen in a Baltec HPM 010 high-pressure freezer (Boeckeler Instruments, Tucson, AZ). After freeze-substitution for 5 days at −80°C in anhydrous acetone containing 4% OsO4, the sample temperature was slowly brought up to room temperature over 2 days (24 h from −80 to −20°C, 20 h from −20 to 4°C, 4 h from 4 to 20°C) and the root tips were washed three times with anhydrous acetone. Embedding in Epon resin (Ted Pella, Redding, CA), resin polymerization, sectioning, post-staining, and imaging were carried out as described in Otegui et al. (CITATION). For immunolabeling experiments, high-pressure frozen A. thaliana root tips were freeze-substituted in anhydrous acetone with 0.1% uranyl acetate and 0.25% glutraldehyde at −90°C for 96 h. The temperature of the freeze-substitution medium was then increased from −90°C to −60°C over 12 h, and the root samples were washed with anhydrous acetone three times at −60°C. Lowicryl HM20 (Electron Microscopy Sciences, Hatfield, PA) resin embedding was performed by a stepwise increase in resin concentration from 0, 33, 66, to 100% over 48 h at −60°C. The samples were then washed three times with 100% resin and polymerized under UV light for 24 h at −60°C. Once completely polymerized, the samples were slowly warmed from −60 to 20°C over a 4 h period. High-pressure freezing/freeze-substitution of BY-2 cells was performed as described in Nebenführ et al. (CITATION). Freeze-substitution and Lowicryl resin embedding for immunogold labeling experiments were performed using a Leica AFS machine (LeicaUSA, Bannockburn, IL). Thick sections (80 to approx. 120 nm thick) of Lowicryl HM20 embedded A. thaliana root tip (wild-type, Atp115-GFP line) samples were mounted on gold slot grids coated with formvar (Electron Microscopy Sciences, Hatfield, PA). The sections were blocked with phosphate buffered saline (PBS) with 2% nonfat milk and 0.2% Tween-20 for 30 min. After blocking, the sections were probed with an anti-AtSar1 antibody (Dr. David Robinson, University of Heidelberg) or with an anti-GFP antibody (Dr. Jason Kahana, Harvard University) for 1 hr at room temperature. Dilutions for the anti-AtSar1 antibody and for the anti-GFP antibody were 1:30 and 1:50, respectively, in PBS with 1% nonfat milk and 0.2% Tween-20. After washed thoroughly with PBS with 1% nonfat milk and 0.2% Tween-20, the sections were incubated in secondary antibody (anti-rabbit immunoglobulin G, 1:25 in PBS with 0.5% nonfat milk and 0.2% Tween-20) conjugated to 15-nm gold particles (Ted Pella, Reddings, CA) for 1 h. After post-staining, the sections were observed with a Philips (Hillsboro, OR) CM10 electron microscope operated at 80 kV Sample sectioning, post-staining, and acquisition of tilting series images were performed as described by Otegui et al. (CITATION) and Segui-Simarro et al. (CITATION). Images in the tilting series were taken either at ×15,400 or at ×17,000 from +60° to −60° with 1.5° increments using a Gatan Megascan 795 digital camera around two orthogonal axes (Gatan, Pleasanton, CA). Dual-axis tomograms were reconstructed using the etomo interface of the IMOD software package (Boulder Laboratory of 3D Electron Microscopy of the Cell, University of Colorado at Boulder). Tomogram display and analysis were performed with the 3dmod graphic module of the IMOD software package. Membrane structures, vesicles, and ribosomes in the tomograms were traced and converted into 3D models as described in Otegui et al. (CITATION). Immuno-electron tomography imaging was performed same as regular electron tomography imaging except that immunolabeled lowicryl HM20 sections were coated with another layer of formvar film prior to capturing tilted image series to stabilize the sections against 200- to approximately 300-kV-strong electron beams. Ribosome density was calculated with a program called MTK included in the IMOD software package. After 3D models of approximately 19,115 ribosomes adjacent to the Golgi stack and COPII buds were generated, the density of the ribosome models were calculated at every 5 nm from the COPII surface. Average densities of ribosomes at each distance were plotted to generate the graph in Fig. 4. Since the MTK program provides results in arbitrary units, raw density values were normalized by setting the density of the plateau in the graph (at 55 nm) to 22,000 /μm3. Ribosome densities from the plasma membrane were calculated and plotted in the same way using the model in Fig. S2 (ESM; 1080 ribosome models were used). Averages and standard deviations at each distance from three COPII scaffold measurements and ribosome density of one plasma membrane model are shown in Fig. 4. Transgenic A. thaliana seedlings expressing ManI-GFP were imaged with a Leica TCS SP2 AOBS (acousto optical beam splitter) confocal microscope and a PL APO 63X/1.40 NA, oil immersion objective lens (Leica Microsystem, Bannockburn, IL). For the GFP fusion proteins and FM4–64, an argon laser (488 nm/20 mW) and a He/Ne laser (543 nm/1.2 mW) were used, respectively. Preset wavelength windows for detecting GFP and RFP in the AOBS system were employed. The ManI-GFP A. thaliana seedlings were grown for 5 days after germination prior to viewing. The ManI-GFP transgenic A. thaliana seedlings were stained with 8.25 μM FM4–64 (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR) for 3 min before they were mounted on glass slides. Time-lapse imaging of the root meristem cells expressing ManI-GFP was completed within 10 min of the initial exposure to FM4–64, and before the dye could be detected in the cytoplasm. For the actin disruption experiments, the ManI-GFP A. thaliana seedlings were incubated in a media containing latrunculin B (5 μM; Calbiochem, San Diego, CA) for 10 min. Images in a time-lapse series were obtained from a single optical section without line or frame averaging. To calculate speeds, the time-lapse images were imported into Photoshop (Adobe Systems, San Jose, CA), and the center point coordinates of the Golgi stacks were determined. The 2D speeds of the Golgi stacks were calculated, and the Golgi stack positions were traced using Microsoft Excel (Redmond, WA)
