!~ABS~! The signal-mediated and spatially controlled assembly and dynamics of actin are crucial for maintaining shape, motility, and tip growth of eukaryotic cells. We report that a novel Armadillo repeat protein in Arabidopsis thaliana, ARMADILLO REPEAT ONLY1 (ARO1), is of fundamental importance for polar growth and F-actin organization in tip-growing pollen tubes. ARO1 is specifically expressed in the vegetative cell of pollen as well as in the egg cell. ARO1-GFP (for green fluorescent protein) fusion proteins accumulate most notably in pollen tube tips and partially colocalize with F-actin in the shank of pollen tubes. ARO1 knockout results in a highly disorganized actin cytoskeleton, growth depolarization, and ultimately tube growth arrest. Tip-localized ARO1-GFP is spatially shifted toward the future site of tip growth, indicating a role of ARO1 in the signaling network controlling tip growth and regulating actin organization. After the pollen tube discharges its contents into the receptive synergid, ARO1-GFP colocalizes with emerging F-actin structures near the site of sperm cell fusion, suggesting additional participation in the mechanism of sperm cell tracking toward the female gametes. The variable localization of ARO1 in the cytoplasm, the nucleus, and at the plasma membrane, however, indicates a multifunctional role like that of β-catenin/Armadillo and the p120 catenins.
!~RES~! A previous analysis of ESTs derived from isolated wheat (Triticum aestivum) egg cells led to the discovery of a novel transcript encoding an ARM repeat–containing protein (EC-123; GenBank accession number EU662204), which was found to be expressed exclusively in egg cells and anthers (CITATION). BLAST searches revealed significant similarity to hypothetical ARM repeat–containing proteins from rice (Oryza sativa; Os08g0548500) and Arabidopsis (At4g34940). Besides the ARM repeats, the proteins do not contain any recognizable protein motif or any similarity to known proteins; therefore, they were termed ARO proteins. We found At4g34940 to be a member of a small Arabidopsis protein family, designated ARO1 to ARO4. All four proteins are encoded by a single exon, with a length of between 615 (ARO4) and 670 (ARO3) amino acid residues and a predicted molecular mass of 67.8 to 73 kD, respectively. While ARO2 and ARO3 are very similar to ARO1, ARO4 represents the most divergent member of the protein family (see Supplemental Figure 1A and Supplemental Methods online). However, all four proteins share a unique primary structure comprising two conserved ARM repeat–containing domains (ARD1 and ARD2), which are separated by a highly divergent spacer region. A domain of 143 to 153 amino acids is located at the N terminus, and a short stretch of 55 to 59 amino acids follows ARD2 at the C terminus (see Supplemental Figure 1A online). Based solely on sequence homology, only up to three bona fide ARM repeats were recognized in each of the four ARO proteins in Arabidopsis. Nevertheless, when we combined secondary structure and Pfam predictions, the presence of at least six complete and three incomplete putative ARM repeats was indicated (see Supplemental Figures 1B and 2 online). Despite the low sequence conservation of some of the putative ARM repeats, they possess a typical three-helix composition and are predicted to form an elongated superhelical structure similar to that of importin-α (see Supplemental Figure 1C online). We also found a small family of four ARO-like hypothetical proteins (Os ARO-like; Os AROl-1 to -4) to be present in the rice genome. Furthermore, we identified ARO-like proteins in the genomes of Zea mays (maize), Medicago truncatula (barrel clover), Vitis vinifera (grape), Lotus japonicus (lotus), Populus trichocarpa (black cottonwood), and the moss Physcomitrella patens as well as in the EST data collections of Picea (spruce) and Pinus (pine) species, while we could not find any ARO-like proteins in Chlamydomonas, yeast, or animal. The unrooted phylogenetic tree generated with ARO-like proteins reveals that monocotyledonous, dicotyledonous, gymnosperm, and moss ARO-like proteins form individual subclades (see Supplemental Figure 3 and Supplemental Data Set 1 online), with the exception of Arabidopsis ARO4. When we compared the predicted secondary structure and putative phosphorylation sites of Arabidopsis ARO1 with those of its closest relatives from other plant species, we found the overall architecture as well as several predicted phosphorylation sites to be conserved (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). RT-PCR expression studies revealed that Arabidopsis ARO1 is not expressed in vegetative tissues but only in tissues containing the male and female gametophytes. Transcripts of ARO1 were detected in buds and flowers as well as in dissected anthers and ovaries (Figure 1A ). By contrast, the other members of the gene family are expressed in all tissues tested. To provide a more detailed view of ARO1 expression during female and male gametophyte development, homozygous transgenic lines were generated, expressing β-glucuronidase (GUS) under the control of the ARO1 promoter. GUS activity was not detected during early stages of ovule development (Figure 1B) but was restricted to mature egg cells of female gametophytes (Figure 1C). While weak GUS activity was still detectable in zygotes (Figure 1D), it was absent in two-celled proembryos (Figure 1E). During anther development, GUS activity was first detected at stage 11 of flower development (CITATION), when pollen reached the trinucleate stage (Figure 1G). Strong GUS activity was observed in mature pollen grains (Figure 1H) as well as in in vitro germinated pollen tubes (Figure 1J). This was confirmed by quantitative RT-PCR, when relative expression levels of ARO1 were determined using Eukaryotic Transcription Initiation Factor4G (eIF4) as a reference housekeeping gene (Figure 1K). During anther maturation (floral stages 10 to 13), ARO1 transcript levels increased significantly, and the highest transcript levels were found in mature pollen and in pollen tubes, 5 h after in vitro germination. RT-PCR analysis using mature pollen but excluding anther tissues revealed that ARO1 is the only member of the gene family expressed in pollen (Figure 1L). By contrast, all four AROs appear to be expressed in the egg cell, as indicated by Affymetrix GeneChip experiments using fluorescently labeled amplified cRNA from isolated Arabidopsis egg cells (Figure 1M). ARO2 to ARO4 seem to be expressed more strongly than ARO1 and WUSCHEL-related homeobox2 (WOX2), a gene that was recently shown to be expressed in egg cells by in situ hybridization (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Three independent SALK T-DNA insertion lines were considered for functional analysis of ARO1 (Figure 2A ). The mutant alleles were named aro1-1 (insertion at −360 bp upstream of the start codon), aro1-2 (insertion at −327 bp upstream of the start codon), and aro1-3 (insertion at +791 bp, corresponding to amino acid position 263). [[FIGURE]] The homozygous offspring of the T-DNA insertion lines aro1-1 and aro1-2 did not show any phenotype in either vegetative development or reproduction. By contrast, no homozygous plant was obtained among the aro1-3 progeny (n = 178). The mutant allele segregated in a ratio of 1:1.02 (+/+:aro1-3/+), indicating a gametophytic effect. Reciprocal crosses of heterozygous aro1-3/+ with the wild type revealed that aro1-3 was only transmitted by the female gametophyte and never by the male (see Supplemental Table 1 online), suggesting a functional role of ARO1 in either pollen development or postpollination events. Cytological analysis of 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI)–stained mature pollen grains from heterozygous aro1-3/+ plants did not show any distinctive feature compared with wild-type pollen (Figures 2B and 2C). The size and shape of these pollen grains were normal, and both the vegetative nucleus and the two sperm cell nuclei were present (Figure 2C). However, ∼50% of pollen from aro1-3/+ plants germinated in vitro displayed a severe phenotype. The pollen tubes either burst immediately after in vitro germination or were short and plump with large vacuole-like structures (Figure 2E). Statistical evaluation revealed that 51.6% of aro1-3/+ pollen tubes appeared phenotypically similar to wild-type controls (long, with uniform diameter), while 28% of these tubes had a short and plump phenotype (short, with variably increased diameter; referred to hereafter as aro1-3 pollen tubes). The diameter of aro1-3 pollen tubes ranged from 15 to 35 μm, with an average of 23 μm, while wild-type pollen tubes were 5 to 7 μm in diameter. Another 20.4% of aro1-3 pollen grains burst immediately after germination (Table 1 ). Measurement of tube lengths after 3 and 6 h of in vitro germination revealed that the growth rate of aro1-3 pollen tubes was significantly retarded. At 6 h after in vitro germination, the average length of wild-type pollen tubes was 85.65 μm (ranging from 4.1 to 192.9 μm), while aro1-3 pollen tubes were between 6.98 and 47.09 μm long, with an average length of 19.39 μm (Table 2 ). Successful complementation verified the causal relationship between the observed pollen tube phenotype and the aro1-3 allele and demonstrated that the ARO1-GFP (for green fluorescent protein) fusion protein that we used is functional in planta (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). Pollen Tube Phenotypes of Wild-Type (+/+) and aro1-3/+ Pollen, Observed 5 h after in Vitro Germination Average Length of Wild-Type (+/+) and aro1-3/+ Pollen Tubes Measured after 3 and 6 h of in Vitro Germination In vivo germination of pollen from aro1-3/+ plants was analyzed by aniline blue staining of pistils at 24 h after limited hand pollination. Pollen tubes of aro1-3/+ plants were visible in the transmitting tract of pistils, as were pollen tubes of the wild-type controls (Figures 2F and 2J). Closer examination revealed that only pollen tubes with wild-type morphology were able to grow through the style toward the ovules (Figures 2G and 2K). Phenotypic short and plump pollen tubes were only found on the surface of the papillae, which indicates that aro1-3 pollen are in principle able to adhere, hydrate, and germinate in vivo. However, mutant pollen tubes failed to enter the cell wall of stigmatic cells (Figure 2L, arrowhead) and were often observed to form protuberances at the tube tip. As the aro1-3 allele is not transmitted by the male parent (see Supplemental Table 1 online), we conclude that aro1-3/+ plants will become fertilized exclusively by pollen with a wild-type genetic background because aro1-3 pollen tubes are impaired in growing into the stigma. To examine the cause for the aro1-3 pollen tube morphology, we fixed in vitro germinated pollen tubes, stained them with rhodamine–phalloidin, and analyzed the actin cytoskeleton using confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM). Wild-type pollen grains contained thick actin cables, which were strictly oriented toward the germination pore (Figure 2M, solid arrow). In the shank of wild-type pollen tubes, actin cables were oriented in parallel bundles along the growth axis of the tube (Figures 2M and 2O, dashed arrows). Strikingly, the actin cytoskeleton of aro1-3 pollen tubes was severely disorganized. Short fragments of randomly oriented actin bundles were visible in the pollen grains of germinated pollen (Figure 2N, arrowheads). The bulk of very short aro1-3 pollen tubes revealed a disorganized meshwork of short actin filaments throughout the tube (Figure 2N, bracket). In the rare case of longer aro1-3 pollen tubes, short bundles of randomly oriented and occasionally intertwining actin filaments were visible in the shank of the pollen tube and in the tip (Figure 2P, arrowheads). Growth retardation and loss of polarized tip growth of aro1-3 pollen tubes thus coincide with the loss of long and parallel actin bundles along the growth axis of the zygote, together with an accumulation of short and disordered actin filaments at the tip of the pollen tubes. We generated transgenic lines expressing the ARO1-GFP fusion protein under the control of the ARO1 promoter (ARO1pro:ARO1-GFP) and evaluated homozygous progeny for the time frame of GFP expression and subcellular localization of the fusion protein. In the female gametophyte, expression of the ARO1-GFP fusion protein was restricted to mature egg cells (Figures 3A to 3C ), consistent with results obtained from ARO1pro:GUS lines. While the GFP fluorescence was found in the cytoplasm of egg cells, we never detected any fluorescence in the egg nucleus (Figure 3B, en) or in the vacuole (Figure 3D, v). After the first asymmetric cell division of the zygote, ARO1-GFP was no longer detectable (Figures 3E and 3F). [[FIGURE]] Analysis of pollen grains revealed that ARO1-GFP is located in the cytoplasm of the vegetative cell (Figures 3H and 3L). Furthermore, intense fluorescence was detected in the nucleus of the vegetative cell (Figures 3K to 3M, vn), while nuclei and cytoplasm of sperm cells completely lacked GFP fluorescence (Figures 3G to 3M). Both cytoplasmic and nuclear localization of ARO1-GFP were also observed in the majority of transiently transformed epidermal onion cells expressing ARO1-GFP under the control of the maize Ubiquitin (UBI) promoter (see Supplemental Figure 5B online). However, 10% of the transiently transformed cells showed GFP fluorescence in the cytoplasm but not in the nucleus (see Supplemental Figure 5D online). Furthermore, the ARO1-GFP fusion protein appeared to be located exclusively at the plasma membrane in 17% of all analyzed cells (see Supplemental Figure 5F online). This variation in subcellular localization was not observed in Arabidopsis eggs or in pollen expressing ARO1pro:ARO1-GFP, nor was it seen in transiently transformed epidermal spring onion cells expressing an ARO2-GFP fusion protein or the GFP control (see Supplemental Figures 5H and 5K online). Slightly grainy fluorescence of ARO1-GFP was visible throughout the cytoplasm of in vitro germinated pollen, together with several fluorescing spots (Figure 4A ; dashed arrows). Some filament-like fluorescent structures were usually visible, especially in the central part of pollen tubes, parallel to the axis of growth (see Supplemental Figures 6A and 6B online). As in ungerminated pollen, ARO1-GFP was present in the vegetative nucleus (Figure 4A, vn), while sperm cells were free of any fluorescence (see Supplemental Figures 6A and 6B and Supplemental Movie 1 online). Strikingly, ARO1-GFP appeared to accumulate at the very tip of the germinated pollen tube (Figure 4A, arrowhead). This accumulation was present in all pollen tubes analyzed, although the fluorescence intensity was found to vary, and filled 0.7 to 5 μm of the tip. Moreover, a change in the growth direction of pollen tube tips was always accompanied by a relocation of fluorescence toward the future growth site of the tips (Figures 4B to 4E). [[FIGURE]] We examined the colocalization of ARO1-GFP and actin by CLSM, after the actin cytoskeleton of in vitro germinated ARO1pro:ARO1-GFP pollen tubes was fixed and stained. Fluorescence of ARO1-GFP was weaker but still visible after fixation and colocalized along longitudinal bundles of actin filaments in the shank of the pollen tube, with some shorter actin filaments in the apical region of the tube tip (Figure 5 , arrows). However, the subcellular distribution of ARO1-GFP did not completely cover the labeled actin filaments but appeared somewhat discontinuous, and several fluorescing spots did not show any colocalization with actin (Figures 5C and 5F, arrowheads). Also, without fixation we observed only some filament-like green fluorescent structures occurring particularly in the central part of pollen tubes (see Supplemental Figures 6A and 6B online). [[FIGURE]] We verified the partial colocalization of ARO1-GFP and actin filaments by treating in vitro germinated ARO1pro:ARO1-GFP pollen tubes with latrunculin B (LatB), previously shown to be a potent inhibitor of actin polymerization in pollen tubes (CITATION). Effective depolymerization of F-actin resulted in scattered weak red fluorescence visible in rhodamine–phalloidin-stained pollen tubes (Figure 6B ). The slightly enriched staining in the apical region presumably represents G-actin or patches of fragmented F-actin. The disruption of actin filaments was accompanied by the disappearance of the filament-like ARO1-GFP signal in the shank of pollen tubes (Figure 6A), contrary to control pollen tubes treated with the solvent DMSO only (Figure 6D). The green fluorescence in the apex of LatB-treated pollen tubes appeared weaker and more dispersed compared with that of untreated pollen tubes (Figures 4A and 5A), indicating a correlation between the apical dynamic F-actin and the spatial restriction of ARO1 within the tip. Colocalization of ARO1-GFP with actin remaining after LatB treatment was visible in the apex and in some spots in the shank of the tube (Figure 6C, arrowheads). However, most of the green fluorescent spots in the cytoplasm did not colocalize with actin (Figure 6C, arrows). [[FIGURE]] We investigated a putative plasma membrane– and vesicle-associated localization of ARO1-GFP by the use of the styril dye FM4-64, an established tracer of endocytotic membrane traffic in plant cells (CITATION), and brefeldin A (BFA), an efficient inhibitor of vesicular secretion in plant cells (CITATION). In vitro germinated ARO1pro:ARO1-GFP pollen tubes were incubated for 30 min with the fixable derivative FM4-64FX, to allow the visualization of parts of the endomembrane system (blue staining) together with actin filaments (red staining) (Figures 6E to 6H). Again, the filament- and speckle-like fluorescing signals of ARO1-GFP localized along some actin filaments (Figures 6E to 6H, arrowheads). However, there was no colocalization of FM4-64–labeled membrane compartments (Figures 6G and 6H, dashed arrows) and the fluorescing spots of ARO1-GFP (Figures 6E and 6H, solid arrows). Interestingly, the localization of ARO1-GFP changed significantly upon BFA treatment (Figures 6J to 6M). The tip-focused accumulation of ARO1-GFP disappeared and the filament-like distribution of ARO1-GFP changed into a punctiform fluorescence of variable intensity and size, visible throughout the pollen tube (Figure 6J). Like a string of pearls, ARO1-GFP was visible throughout the pollen tubes but colocalized rather infrequently with thick actin cables (Figures 6K and 6M, arrowheads), which were not significantly altered upon BFA treatment. However, the punctiform fluorescence of ARO1-GFP never colocalized with subapical FM4-64–stained BFA-induced membrane aggregations (Figures 6L and 6M, dashed arrows). To investigate the localization of ARO1 and actin in the egg apparatus before fertilization, we stained the actin cytoskeleton of emasculated wild-type and ARO1-GFP–expressing Arabidopsis ovules with rhodamine–phalloidin. The synergids exhibited strong staining of actin filaments with a polar orientation along their longitudinal axis (Figures 7B and 7E , dashed arrows). By contrast, egg cells only exhibited weak actin staining, essentially at the apical cortex (Figure 7B, arrowhead). Besides being a matter of detection sensitivity, mature Arabidopsis egg cells may thus either lack extensive actin filaments or could be predominantly occupied by dynamic F-actin. [[FIGURE]] To analyze the distribution of ARO1-GFP during the fertilization process, we performed controlled hand pollination of emasculated wild-type pistils using ARO1-GFP–expressing pollen and vice versa. In ARO1-GFP–labeled egg cells, the fluorescence appeared to alter soon after pollination but before fertilization took place. One hour after hand pollination, we observed a stronger punctiform fluorescence of ARO1-GFP, shifting toward the transvacuolar strands and to the micropylar region of the egg cell (Figures 7E and 7F). However, we could not detect ancillary actin filaments in these regions. We detected the first pollen tubes arriving at the ovules ∼5 h after pollination, which is consistent with previous observations (CITATION). The typical distribution of male-derived ARO1-GFP in wild-type ovules, after the pollen tube has released its contents into the receptive synergid, is shown in Figures 7G and 7H (live imaging of ARO1-GFP, without fixation and staining, is shown in Supplemental Movie 2 online). The fluorescence is visible throughout the degenerating synergid and spreads into the gap between the egg and the central cell, forming a fluorescent hook covering the chalazal end of the egg cell (Figure 7G, arrowhead). The nuclei of both the egg and the central cell are positioned in this area, the suggested fusion site of male and female gametes (CITATION). In another set of experiments, we performed crosses between ARO1-GFP–expressing pistils and pollen where the sperm cells were labeled with HTR10-mRFP1, a male gamete–specific histone variant fused to monomeric red fluorescent protein 1 (mRFP1) (CITATION). Indeed, we observed the sperm cells to migrate into the chalazal end of the degenerating synergid (Figure 7M, arrowheads), toward the predicted fusion site. After staining actin filaments of wild-type ovules pollinated with ARO1-GFP pollen at the time of pollen tube discharge and sperm cell migration, we observed significant cytoskeletal modifications in the degenerating synergid (Figures 7J to 7L, sy). The prominent actin filaments, visible in the lumen of synergids before pollen tube arrival, disappeared, whereas fluorescent F-actin aggregated in the micropylar region (Figure 7J, dashed arrow). In addition, we detected a narrow band of F-actin at the chalazal end of the degenerating synergid (Figure 7J, solid arrow), the area where sperm cells migrate toward their fusion sites. Pollen tube-derived ARO1-GFP filled the lumen of the receptive synergid (Figure 7K, sy). Fluorescence of ARO1-GFP was also visible in the shank of the pollen tube, at areas of strong F-actin staining (Figures 7J to 7L, arrowheads). In the egg apparatus, there was no colocalization of the prominent F-actin aggregates at the micropylar region with ARO1-GFP (Figure 7L, dashed arrow). However, ARO1-GFP colocalized with the narrow F-actin band at the chalazal end of the degenerating synergid (Figure 7L, arrow).
!~MM~! All oligonucleotide primers used in this work are specified in the Supplemental Methods and Supplemental Data Set online. Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Columbia-0 [Col-0]) plants were grown on soil under a short photoperiod (9 h of light, 22°C, 70% humidity) for 3 to 4 weeks, followed by a long photoperiod (16 h of light, 8500 lux, 22°C, 70% humidity). ARO1 T-DNA insertion lines aro1-1 (SALK_040310), aro1-2 (SALK_147528), and aro1-3 (SALK_033785) were generated by the Salk Institute Genomic Analysis Laboratory (CITATION). Genomic DNA was isolated using the innuPREP Plant DNA kit (Analytik Jena). T-DNA integrations were identified by PCR using gene-specific primers for aro1-1 (LP1-1 and RP1-1), aro1-2 (LP1-2 and RP1-2), and aro1-3 (LP1-3 and RP1-3) as well as a combination of the T-DNA primer LBa1 with gene-specific primers RP1-1, LP1-2, and LP1-3. Up to 5 mg of frozen tissue was used for mRNA isolation using the Dynabeads mRNA DIRECT Micro kit (Dynal Biotech). Mature pollen and germinated pollen tubes used for mRNA isolation were obtained by dipping freshly dehiscent anthers onto semisolid pollen germination medium as described below and collected either 10 min after rehydration or 5 h after in vitro germination in 5 μL of phosphate buffer. Before RT-PCR, mRNA was treated with 1 unit of RNase-free DNase I (MBI Fermentas) according to the manufacturer's instructions. First-strand cDNA synthesis was performed using oligo(dT)18 primers and RevertAid Moloney Murine Leukemia Virus reverse transcriptase, adding 40 units of RiboLock ribonuclease inhibitor (all enzymes were from MBI Fermentas). The quality and amount of generated cDNAs were checked by PCR using the Actin3 primers Act3fw and Act3rev. Transcripts of ARO1 to ARO4 were amplified using primer pairs ARO1fw/ARO1rev, ARO2fw/ARO2rev, ARO3fw/ARO3rev, and ARO4fw/ARO4rev, respectively (see Supplemental Methods and Supplemental Data Set online). Experiments were repeated at least twice, using two biological replicates. Two microliters of each cDNA was used as template. For quantitative RT-PCR, 1 μL of each of individual cDNA population was used with primer pairs for ARO1 (ARO1fw/ARO1rev) and for the reference gene eIF4G (eIF4fw and eIF4rev). Quantitative PCR was performed in triplicate, using each biological replicate, the SYBR Advantage qPCR Premix (Clontech), and the Mastercycler ep realplex S (Eppendorf). Egg cells were isolated from excised mature Arabidopsis (Col-0) ovaries 2 d after 11 flowers had been emasculated (CITATION). The isolation procedure was performed according to CITATION, except that the ovules were dissected in a 730-mOsm enzyme solution using fine hypodermic needles, and the isolated egg cells were washed twice in a droplet of 730 mOsm of mannitol before being collected and frozen in liquid nitrogen. In total, 30 isolated egg cells were used for isolation of mRNA with the Dynabeads mRNA DIRECT Micro kit following the manufacturer's instructions, but scaled down to a volume of 50 μL. The TargetAmp 2-Round Aminoallyl-aRNA Amplification Kit 1.0 (Epicentre) was used for linear amplification of RNA, following the manufacturer's guidelines. Subsequent labeling of cRNA, hybridization of Arabidopsis ATH1 GeneChip arrays, and standard data evaluation were performed by the Center of Excellence for Biochips in Regensburg, Germany. A 723-bp genomic fragment (+6 to −717 upstream of the predicted start codon of ARO1) was amplified using ACCUZYME DNA polymerase (Bioline) and the primer pair ARO1pfw/ARO1prev (see Supplemental Methods and Supplemental Data Set online) and cloned into pCR-Blunt II-TOPO (Invitrogen). The binary vector ARO1pro:GUS was created by cloning the BglII-digested promoter fragment upstream of GUS-INT (CITATION), using the vector pMG2002 (M. Gahrtz, unpublished data), after the maize (Zea mays) UBI promoter was cut out by BamHI/BglII. Cloning of the GFP fusion proteins is described in the Supplemental Methods and Supplemental Data Set online. Binary plasmids were delivered into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 (pMP90RK), which was then used for transformation of Arabidopsis Col-0 by floral dip, according to CITATION. Three days after germination, BASTA-resistant seedlings were selected by spraying three times with 200 mg/L BASTA (Bayer Crop Science) supplemented with 0.1% Tween. Pollen grains were placed on small Petri dishes (4 cm) by dipping freshly dehiscent anthers onto pollen germination medium (PGM) solidified with 0.5% purified agar–agar (Merck), according to CITATION. Plates were placed in a damp box and incubated at 22°C and 8000 to 9000 lux for 3 to 6 h. Germination and growth rates were evaluated by digital bright-field microscopy of the germinated pollen directly on the solidified medium without a cover slip, using a Zeiss Axioskop microscope equipped with a Zeiss AxioVision camera and Zeiss AxioVision software (release 4.6). For CLSM using the Zeiss Axiovert 200M inverted microscope, a piece of semisolid PGM with germinated pollen was carefully placed upside down onto a cover slip that had been fixed to the bottom of a metal slide provided with an opening (diameter of 20 mm) in the center. For drug treatments, 2.5 mM LatB (Sigma-Aldrich) was dissolved in 100% DMSO and diluted to a final concentration of 20 nM in liquid PGM. BFA (AppliChem) was dissolved in 5 mg/mL methanol and diluted to a final concentration of 5 μg/mL in liquid PGM. After 3 h of in vitro germination, 500 μL of BFA- or LatB-containing PGM was added to the pollen germinated on semisolid PGM, and plates were incubated for another 2 h as described. As controls, corresponding solvents were added to liquid PGM in similar amounts and added to pollen tubes as indicated. Changes in growth rates during drug treatment were not estimated. FM4-64FX (Invitrogen) was dissolved to 1 mM in 100% DMSO, diluted to a final concentration of 4 μM in liquid PGM, and added to germinating pollen 30 min prior to actin staining. GUS staining was performed according to CITATION. Before clearing, tissues were washed in 100 mM sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.0). Ovaries were dissected on a glass slide in a drop of Hoyer's or lactic acid clearing solution, according to CITATION and CITATION, respectively. Actin labeling of in vitro germinated pollen was performed as described by CITATION. For actin staining of ovules, pistils were cut open lengthwise using a hypodermic needle (0.4 × 20 mm). To improve penetration of solutions, pistils were incubated under vacuum. For aniline blue staining, pollinated pistils were fixed overnight in ethanol:acetic acid (9:1) at 4°C. After an ethanol series (70, 50, and 30%; 5 min each), pistils were rinsed in 100 mM sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.0) and softened with 10% chloral hydrate for 5 min at 65°C. After rinsing in sodium phosphate buffer, pistils were incubated in 5 M NaOH for 10 min at 65°C. Samples were mounted on glass slides in 0.1% aniline blue (Fluka) in sodium phosphate buffer. To visualize nuclei, ovules and dehiscent anthers were stained with 10 μg/mL DAPI (Sigma-Aldrich), 10 μM Draq5 (Biostatus Limited), or 15 μg/mL propidium iodide (Invitrogen) for 10 to 30 min on a glass slide before microscopy. Bright-field and fluorescent specimens were observed with a Zeiss Axioskop FL microscope equipped with an epifluorescence UV light filter set and differential interference contrast optics. Filter set 02 (365 nm excitation, LP 420 nm) was used for DAPI staining, and filter set 09 (450 to 490 nm excitation, LP 515 nm) was used for GFP samples. Images were captured and processed using the Zeiss AxioVision camera and software (release 4.6) and ImageJ 1.38x (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/). A Zeiss Axiovert 200M inverted microscope equipped with a confocal laser scanning module (LSM 510 META) was used for CLSM. For detection of GFP, 488 nm excitation and a BP 505-530 filter were used. For other fluorophores, 543 nm excitation and filter LP 560 (rhodamine–phalloidin) or LP 650 (Draq5, propidium iodide) were used. Simultaneous detection of FM4-64FX and rhodamine–phalloidin was achieved by recording emission maxima for each 10 nm ranging from 552 to 798 nm and subsequent linear unmixing. Capture and processing of images were done using the AxioCam HRc camera, the Zeiss LSM 510 META software, and the Zeiss LSM image browser version 3.5.0.359. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: ARO1 (At4g34940), ARO2 (At5g66200), ARO3 (At4g36030), ARO4 (At3g26600), eIF4G (At3g60240), PGA3 (At3g07830), WOX2 (At5g59340), ACT3 (At3g53750), ACT4 (At5g59370), ACT7 (At5g09810), Os AROl-1 (Os08g0548500), Os AROl-2 (Os09g0536200), Os AROl-3 (Os03g0244700), Os AROl-4 (Os10g0147900), Pp AROl-1 (XP_001775927), Pp AROl-2 (XP_001774233), Pp AROl-3 (XP_001784239), Pp AROl-4 (XP_001766369), Pt AROl-1 (FJ189520), and Ta ARO1 (EU662204). Sequence data available in the Third Party Annotation Section of the GenBank/EMBL/DDBJ databases are as follows: Lj AROl-1 (BK006563), Mt AROl-1 (BK006558), Mt AROl-2 (BK006562), Pu AROl-1 (BK006559), Vv AROl-1 (BK006560), Vv AROl-2 (BK006561), Zm AROl-1 (BK006566), Zm_AROl-2 (BK006564), Zm AROl-3 (BK006567), and Zm AROl-4 (BK006565). The putative open reading frame of Pi AROl-1 was translated from assembled ESTs (TC39011) identified in the spruce TIGR Gene Indices database. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Arabidopsis ARO Proteins. Supplemental Figure 2. Conserved Secondary Structure and Phosphorylation Sites of ARO1-Like Proteins. Supplemental Figure 3. Phylogenetic Relationship of Members of the ARO Protein Family. Supplemental Figure 4. Complementation of the aro1-3 Phenotype by At ARO1-GFP. Supplemental Figure 5. ARO1-GFP Distribution in Spring Onion Epidermal Cells. Supplemental Figure 6. CLSM Live Imaging of At ARO1-GFP before and after LatB Treatment of in Vitro Germinated Pollen Tubes. Supplemental Figure 7. Direct Yeast Two-Hybrid Interaction Assay of At ARO1 with Different Actin Monomers. Supplemental Table 1. Gametophytic Transmission Efficiency of the aro1-3 Allele. Supplemental Movie 1. Subcellular Localization of ARO1-GFP in an in Vitro Germinated Pollen Tube. Supplemental Movie 2. Localization of Pollen-Derived ARO1-GFP after Pollen Tube Discharge into the Receptive Synergid. Supplemental Methods. Supplemental References. Supplemental Data Set.
