!~ABS~! HIPP26 from Arabidopsis thaliana belongs to a novel class of plant proteins, characterized by a heavy metal associated domain and an additional isoprenylation motif. It is induced during cold, salt and drought stress. The nuclear localization of HIPP26, predicted by a NLS motif, could be confirmed in onion epidermal cells overexpressing GFP-HIPP26. Experiments with modified HIPP26 indicate that the isoprenylation plays a role in the spatial distribution in the nucleus. Using promoter-GUS constructs, a tissue specific expression pattern of HIPP26 could be shown, with high expression in the vascular tissue. By a yeast-two-hybrid approach a strong interaction of HIPP26 with the zinc finger homeodomain transcription factor ATHB29, which is known to play a role in dehydration stress response could be detected. This was confirmed by GST pull-down assays. When using a modified HIPP26 lacking the two central cysteines of the heavy metal associated domain, ATHB29 was not bound in the GST pull-down assay, indicating that this structure is necessary for the interaction. Further yeast-two-hybrid analyses testing interaction of different members of the HIPP family with related zinc finger transcription factors revealed a specific interaction of ATHB29 with several HIPP proteins. A functional relationship between HIPP26 and ATHB29 is also indicated by experiments with mutants of HIPP26 showing altered expression levels of such genes known to be regulated by ATHB29.
!~RES~! Recently we identified from barley a novel nuclear localized protein with a heavy metal associated domain (HMA) and a C-terminal isoprenylation motif (HvFP1, Barth et al. CITATION). Data bank research revealed that in Arabidopsis thaliana there are at least 44 genes coding for proteins containing one or more heavy metal associated domains (HMA domain, pfam00403.6) with two characteristic cysteines and additionally a C-terminal isoprenylation motif. Figure 1a shows the genetic tree of all HMA domains of the Arabidopsis proteins encoded by these genes. Because of the two characteristic features, the heavy metal associated domain and the isoprenylation motif, we denoted all these proteins HIPPs (heavy metal associated isoprenylated plant proteins). In Fig. 1a we list both, the AGI-code and the novel HIPP nomenclature. Based on the sequence homologies all the HIPP proteins cluster in six different groups (I–VI). [[FIGURE]]  In this work we focus on cluster III of the Arabidopsis thaliana HIPP family showing highest homology to the cold regulated barley gene HvFP1. Figure 1b shows exemplarily the protein structure of one member of cluster III, HIPP26, which in addition to the HMA domain with its central HMA-motif (M/L/IxCxxC) and the typical carboxy-terminal CaaX-motif for isoprenylation and next to this CaaX motif a highly conserved sequence (conserved C-Terminus, cCT) which can be found in a large number of isoprenylated plant proteins (see alignment of all HIPPs of cluster III in supplemental Fig. 1), also contains a NLS (nuclear localization signal). Similar to the barley protein HvFP1 and the Arabidopsis HIPP26 some other HIPPs of cluster III contain a nuclear localization signal (NLS) made up of basic amino acids lysine, arginine and histidine (K, R and H). These are HIPP20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25 and 27, predicting a nuclear localization of these proteins (see supplemental Fig. 1). Additionally a N-terminal myristoylation motif (MGxxxT/S, see Yalovsky et al. CITATION) can be found in HIPP 20, 23 and 24. A web-based signal scan of the 1,055 bp upstream sequence of HIPP26 using the plant cis-acting regulatory DNA elements (PLACE) database (Higo et al. CITATION) revealed the presence of a high number of potential cis-acting regulatory DNA elements (see listing in supplemental Table S2). In Fig. 1c we show the predicted positions of the typical stress responsive elements LTRE-1 (low temperature responsive element, Dunn et al. CITATION), DRE2 (dehydration responsive element, Dubouzet et al. CITATION), GT-1 box (involved in pathogen- and salt-induced gene expression, Park et al. CITATION), CCAAT box (involved in heat shock response, Haralampidis et al. CITATION), MYC recognition site (binding site of ICE1, a major transcriptional activator of cold responsive genes, Chinnusamy et al. CITATION) and MYB recognition sites (important for dehydration-inducible expression, Abe et al. CITATION). Expression of HIPPs of cluster III in response to cold treatment at an early (6 h treatment) and a later (30 h treatment) phase was analyzed by quantitative RealTime-PCR (Fig. 2a). Expression levels of the genes is represented as fold-difference over the control, which is considered as 1. Although all used primers in the PCR yielded a product when using genomic DNA, transcripts of two genes (HIPP28 and HIPP29) were not detectable with this sensitive method, indicating that these two genes are not expressed at least under the conditions used. [[FIGURE]]  The cold treatment results in the induction of four genes from this cluster, HIPP23, HIPP24, HIPP25 and HIPP26. HIPP23 and HIPP26 are highly induced within the first 6 h of the cold treatment. In later stages of the stress treatment the expression levels of these genes decrease again indicating a fast and transient expression pattern during cold stress. HIPP25 shows induction only in the early phase. HIPP24 is highly up-regulated in later stages of the cold treatment showing high relative expression levels at 30 h treatment. All other HIPP genes of cluster III are either not induced or even repressed in response to the cold stress.  HIPP26 is that cold induced gene, which shows the highest homology to the known barley HvFP1 (Barth et al. CITATION). Its fast and transient induction in early phases of the stress treatment and the presence of a nuclear localization signal (NLS) in addition to the two conserved domains (HMA and isoprenylation motif), hint at a possible regulatory function of this protein. Because of these features we further concentrated on the functional analyses of HIPP26 (At4g38580) in this report. The barley gene HvFP1 showed a complex expression pattern with induction at different abiotic stress conditions (cold, drought and heavy metal), during leaf senescence and in response to abscisic acid (Barth et al. CITATION). Therefore, expression of HIPP26 was further analyzed under these conditions by quantitative RealTime PCR. As shown in Fig. 2b, ABA has no influence on the expression of HIPP26. While drought stress shows only a slight effect, salt stress clearly results in increased transcript levels of HIPP26. Copper treatment and also leaf senescence rather inhibited expression of HIPP26. These data prove that HIPP26 is as the barley HvFP1 clearly induced by cold. But in contrast to HvFP1, which is also induced in response to ABA and copper treatment and during leaf senescence, HIPP26 is not induced under these conditions, indicating only a partial overlap in the induction pathways of the barley and the Arabidopsis gene. The NLS indicates nuclear localization of HIPP26. In order to confirm this, we transformed epidermal onion cells by particle bombardment with two different smRS-GFP-HIPP26 constructs, where HIPP26 is fused to the C-terminal end of smRS-GFP. Subcellular localization of the chimeric proteins was then analyzed by confocal laser scanning microscopy (Fig. 3). The upper panel (a) shows fluorescence of the GFP control alone without HIPP26. It reveals typical GFP fluorescence in the onion epidermal cells. When transformed with the GFP fusion to the wildtype-HIPP26 (GFP-HIPP26-1, Fig. 3b), green fluorescence can be detected exclusively within the nucleus. This green fluorescence is concentrated in several speckle-like structures within the nucleus. In addition to the GFP-HIPP26-1 construct which allows isoprenylation at the intact C-terminal end, we also performed the experiment with a modified HIPP26 in which the C-terminal cysteine was exchanged to a glycine. The corresponding GFP-HIPP26-2 construct therefore can not be isoprenylated. The results are shown in Fig. 3c. This chimeric protein is also exclusively located within the nucleus of the onion epidermal cells. But, in contrast to the intact HIPP26, this protein which can not be isoprenylated is more uniformly located in the nucleus showing high green fluorescence in two defined round areas which were identified to be the nucleoli. Our results prove on one hand the nuclear localization predicted by the NLS-motif, and on the other hand indicate that the isoprenylation may be important for a specific localization of HIPP26 within the nucleus. [[FIGURE]]  A yeast two hybrid (Y2H) screening was used to identify HIPP26 interaction partners and GST pull-down experiments were done for verification (Fig. 4). In the Y2H experiments we used three different constructs as bait, the wildtype HIPP26 (HIPP26-1), HIPP26-2, in which the C-terminal cysteine is exchanged to a glycine and thereby isoprenylation is impossible, and HIPP26-3 with a deleted C-terminus, which can also not be isoprenylated. The screens using the GAL4-cDNA library CD4-30 (Fan et al. CITATION) obtained from the ABRC stock centre were performed on the basis of GAL4 dependent transcriptional activation of three different reporter genes. An interaction of the three HIPP26 constructs with suitable library proteins was detected by a strong nutritional selection on synthetic dropout media lacking adenine (e.g. in −LTA and −LTAH, Fig. 4b) via activation of the ADE2 reporter gene. β-galactosidase and the HIS3 reporter genes were also used for the characterisation of positive interacting clones. 3-aminotriazole (3-AT), a competitive inhibitor of the HIS3 protein was used to enhance the stringency of the nutritional selection on synthetic dropout media lacking histidine (−LTAH, Fig. 4b). All results clearly prove a specific interaction of HIPP26 with ATHB29, a zinc-finger homeodomain box transcription factor (At1g69600, Tan and Irish CITATION). A clear interaction is detected even in the presence of 12.5 mM 3-AT. The Y2H-screening indicated another zinc-finger homeodomain box protein to be a putative interaction partner of HIPP26. This is ATHB21. But the interaction seems to be not as strong as with ATHB29, since the detected β-galactosidase activity and growth of yeast under the stringent conditions with the inhibitor 3-AT are clearly reduced. [[FIGURE]]  The interaction between HIPP26 and ATHB29 was confirmed by an independent experiment. A GST-HIPP26 construct was overexpressed in E. coli cells and by the GST-tag immobilized on glutathione-sepharose. Additionally, a GST-HIPP26 construct was investigated in which the two central cysteines of the M/L/IxCxxC core sequence were exchanged by two glycines (HIPP26-4, Fig. 4a). ATHB29 was in vitro transcribed and in the presence of 35S-labelled methionine translated and then added to the glutathione-sepharose coupled with the suitable GST fusion proteins. The left part of Fig. 4c shows as input control 8% of the radiolabelled protein. The right part shows a radioactive band only in that experiment where the wildtype HIPP26 was used. Neither in the GST control, nor in the experiment with the modified HIPP26, ATHB29 could be pulled down. Our data from the two independent approaches indicate that HIPP26 interacts with the zinc-finger homeodomain box transcription factor ATHB29. For this interaction an intact heavy metal associated domain including the two central cysteines is important. ATHB29 belongs to a Arabidopsis zinc finger homeodomain box transcription factor subfamily (ZF-HDs) consisting of at least 14 members (ATHB21–ATHB34, Tan and Irish CITATION). In order to test the specificity of the protein–protein interaction between members of this family with the different HIPP proteins of cluster III, yeast-two-hybrid assays were performed. Figure 5 indicates that ATHB29, in addition to HIPP26, also strongly interacts with HIPP20, HIPP21, HIPP23, HIPP24, HIPP27 and HIPP30. The only other interactions detected were between HIPP30 and ATHB21 and ATHB30. [[FIGURE]]  The 1,055 bp region upstream of the translational start ATG of HIPP26 (see Fig. 1c) was fused to the GUS gene and Arabidopsis plants were transformed with this construct. A–C (Fig. 6) shows controls transformed with the empty vector (pGPTV-KAN) which demonstrate no blue coloration. D and E show whole 10 days old Arabidopsis plants transformed with the HIPP26 promotor-GUS construct. GUS activity in these plants is clearly localized at the vascular tissue in the whole plant. In the petioles and upper part of the stem a more intense blue coloration can be detected. In the older plants (8 weeks old) GUS activity is also present in the vascular veins shown in the leaves and petioles. These data prove a distinct expression pattern of HIPP26 in specific tissues within the plant. [[FIGURE]]  To further analyze the functional relationship between HIPP26 and ATHB29, expression of known target genes of ATHB29 was analyzed in wild type and mutant plants Athipp26, not expressing HIPP26 (for Northern analyses see supplemental Fig. 2). Three genes, At1g13320 (PDF1, a 65 kDa subunit of protein phosphatase 2A), At3g53090 (UPL7, ubiquitin-protein ligase 7) and At4g26410 (unknown protein), were due to genome-wide transcript analyses for identification and testing of standard genes (Czechowski et al. CITATION) chosen as reference genes. Their expression levels are not changed in plants overexpressing ATHB29 (Tran et al. CITATION). At1g13320 was used as reference to normalise the quantitative RealTime PCR data of the genes of interest. The data illustrated in Fig. 7 show that the relative gene expression rates of At3g53090 and At4g26410 are not changed in mutant line Athipp26 when compared to the wild type. In contrast, expression levels of six stress-related genes which have previously been shown to be highly up-regulated after overexpression of ATHB29 (Tran et al. CITATION), are clearly down regulated in Athipp26 plants. In addition, we analyzed expression of two known cold-regulated genes At5g15970 (cor6.6) and At5g52310 (cor78) which are down-regulated in ATHB29 overexpression plants (Tran et al. CITATION). Both ATHB29 down-regulated genes show no significant difference in mRNA levels in HIPP26 mutant and wild type. Our data show that loss-of-function of HIPP26 inhibits ATHB29-dependent induction of stress-related target genes. [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! Seeds of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. ecotype Columbia) were either germinated and grown on soil (for cold treatment and senescence) or hydroponically (for ABA-, salt- and drought-experiments) in 0.1 times Hoagland’s No.2 basal salt mixture (#H2395 from Sigma-Aldrich, Germany). At day (12 h, 100 μEm−2 s−1) temperature was 23°C and at night (12 h) 16°C. The abiotic stress treatments started 8 weeks after sowing at the beginning of the day phase. Cold treatment was as described in Barth et al. (CITATION). Unstressed control plants were always harvested at the same time points. For ABA treatment 50 μM (+)-cis, trans-abscisic acid (DUCHEFA Biochemie B.V., Haarlem, Netherlands) and for salt stress 250 mM NaCl were added to the hydroponic medium. Drought stress was performed by removing the plants from the hydroponic medium according to Philipps et al. (CITATION). Water content of the samples was 97.9% of control after 1.5 h, and 85.8% of control after 4 h of treatment. Copper stress was done by adding CuCl to obtain a final concentration of 50 μM in the hydroponic medium. For analysis of leaf senescence, plants were grown under standard conditions for 9d (mature leaves) or 38d (senescent leaves) on soil. The HIPP26 Knock Out Mutant Athipp26 was provided from Martienssen Lab (Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, NY, USA). This Line (ET7654) was identified by Martienssen (CITATION) during a systematic screening of an enhancer trap transposon mutagenized Arabidopsis library. The sequences that indicate an insertion event in the first intron, 46 bases after the translation start ATG of HIPP26, are annotated with the genebank accession numbers AY200075 and AY200076. Due to the Landsberg erecta background of the Athipp26 line the Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. ecotype Landsberg erecta (Ler-0, NASC ID: NW20, Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre, United Kingdom) wildtype was used to backcross Athipp26 on wildtype to equal the genetic background of both lines. To prevent effects of possible second site mutations only homozygous plants (Athipp26 (HIPP26 knock out) and AtHIPP26 (wildtype)) of the F2 progeny were used for all comparative experiments. The amino acid consensus sequence of the heavy metal associated domain (HMA domain, PFAM 00403) and the BLAST Servers at NCBI (Altschul et al. CITATION) were used to identify putative HMA domain containing proteins from Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. ecotype Columbia. Alignment of amino acid sequences was made using Clustal W method in the program MegAlign of the ‘Lasergene expert sequence analysis software’ (DNASTAR Inc., Madison, WI, USA). Phylogenetic trees were constructed by comparing 52 amino acid sequences on the basis of the HMA domain. Putative cis-elements in the promoter region of HIPP26 were identified by a web based signal scan search using the plant cis-acting regulatory DNA elements (PLACE) database (Higo et al. CITATION). Standard methods (Sambrook and Russell CITATION) were employed to manipulate DNA and RNA. DNA sequencing was carried out using ABI Prism™ 370 automatic DNA-sequencer (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA, USA). RNA was isolated according to Chomczynski and Mackey (CITATION) and was quantified spectrophotometrically. For RT-PCR of the HIPP26 cDNA (At4g38580), 0.5 μg of total RNA of 30 h cold (6°C) stressed Arabidopsis plants was processed according to the supplier’s instruction using the ‘OneStep RT-PCR’ Kit (QIAGEN, Hilden, Germany), HIPP26cDNAfor and HIPP26cDNArev Primer (supplemental Table S1). The cDNA was purified, cloned using the ‘pGEM-T Vector System I’ (Promega, Madison, WI, USA), sequenced and the corresponding clone was named pGEM-HIPP26. Total RNA, isolated from at least three plants per sample, was treated with DNaseI (Roche Diagnostics GmbH, Mannheim, Germany) and cDNA was synthesized using the SuperScript™III Reverse Transcriptase Kit (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA) according to the supplier’s instructions. PCR was carried out in the iCycler (Bio-Rad, München, Germany) in a total volume of 20 μl including 1× Platinium®SYBR®Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen), 0.3 μM of each gene-specific primer (supplemental Table S1) and 10 nM fluorescein (Bio-Rad) as passive reference dye for well factor calibration. Data collection was performed from three independent experiments with at least three different measurements per sample. To calculate the expression rate and standard error between the target group and the control group the Realtive Expression Software Tool (REST-384 version 2) developed by Pfaffl et al. CITATION was used. The HIPP26 ORF was amplified by using the cDNA clone pGEM-HIPP26 and PCR primer pairs HIPP26forAB and HIPP26revA or HIPP26forAB and HIPP26revB (supplemental Table S1). The PCR products were cloned by using the ‘pGEM-T Vector System I’, sequenced, digested with BglII and BamHI and cloned into BglII site of pKEx4tr-GFP02. The vector and the transformation procedure of onion epidermal cells were performed as described by Barth et al. (CITATION). GFP fluorescence was determined by FITC-filtered visual inspection under a confocal laser scanning microscope (Carl Zeiss, Oberkochen, Germany). The 1,055 bp region upstream of the translational start ATG of HIPP26 was amplified using genomic DNA isolated from Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia as template and HIPP26Pro for and HIPP26Pro rev primer (see supplemental Table S1) and standard PCR conditions. The resulting PCR product was cloned into the XbaI-SmaI sites of pGPTV-Kan (Becker et al. CITATION) in front of the open reading frame of the uidA gene resulting in pGPTV-HIPP26Pro. This vector and the empty pGPTV-Kan as control were transferred to Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101(pMP90) (Koncz and Schell CITATION). Wildtype Arabidopsis thaliana L. ecotype Columbia plants were transformed by the Agrobacterium-mediated floral dip method (Clough and Bent CITATION). Seedlings and leaves of T2 and T3 lines were used for monitoring histochemically the GUS activity. The plant material was stained in a solution containing 50 mM NaPO4(pH 7.2), 0.5 mM K3Fe(CN)6, 0.1% (v/v) Triton X-100, 10 mM EDTA, and 1 mM X-GlcA (#X1406, DUCHEFA Biochemie B.V., Haarlem, Netherlands). After a 1 min vacuum infiltration, the staining reaction was incubated 24 h at 37°C. Leaf pigments were removed by washing 5–10 times with 50% (v/v) ethanol for 24 h each time. Standard techniques were used for the manipulation of yeast (Guthrie and Fink CITATION). The Yeast Two-Hybrid screen had been carried out according to the instructions of the Matchmaker Two-Hybrid System 3 (CLONTECH, Mountain View, CA, USA). Three different HIPP26 bait constructs were amplified by PCR using the cDNA clone pGEM-HIPP26 and the Primer HIPP26forCDEF and HIPP26revC, HIPP26revD or HIPP26revE (supplemental Table S1). The PCR products were cloned, sequenced and used together with the Gal4 DNA binding domain (BD) vector pGBKT7 (CLONTECH) to prepare appropriate bait vectors. These bait vectors were transformed into the yeast strain AH109. CD4-30, the Gal4 Activation Domain (AD) cDNA library, constructed by Fan et al. (CITATION) was transformed into the yeast strain Y187. After mating high (plating directly onto SD/-Leu/-Trp/-Ade) and low (plating first onto SD/-Leu/-Trp and after 4 days onto SD/-Leu/-Trp/-Ade) stringency screenings were performed. Putative positive colonies were rescued and re-tested on SD/-Leu/-Trp/-Ade/-His and for β-galactosidase activity. Interaction in yeast was confirmed by re-transformation in AH109, mating with Y187 harbouring different bait constructs and negative controls (empty pGBKT7 and pGBKT7-Lam). Confirmed positive interacting clones were sequenced by using the primer pAD-Gal4-2.1for and pAD-Gal4-2.1rev (supplemental Table S1). β-galactosidase reporter gene activity was assayed by filter lifts. The entire coding region of further HIPP genes was also cloned into the pGBKT7 vector. The resulting plasmids were transformed in AH109 yeast cells. The coding region of several ATHB genes was cloned into the Gal4-AD vector pGAD-C1 (James et al. CITATION). The resulting plasmids were transformed in Y187 yeast cells. After yeast mating high stringency yeast two hybrid assays (on SD/-Leu/-Trp/-Ade plates) were performed and β-galactosidase reporter gene activity was analysed by filter lifts. The entire coding region of ATHB29 (At1g69600) was amplified by RT-PCR using the ‘OneStep RT-PCR’ Kit (QIAGEN) and the primers ATHB29for and ATHB29rev. The cDNA clone was used as template for an in vitro transcription performed by SP6 RNA polymerase from MBI Fermentas according to the supplier’s instruction. In vitro translation was carried out by Flexi® Rabbit Reticulocyte Lysate System (Promega) in the presence of 35S-Met (GE Healthcare Bio-Sciences AB, Uppsala, Sweden). HIPP26-4 was produced by a two step site directed mutagenesis using the pGEM-HIPP26 cDNA clone and the primer HIPP26forCDEF together with HIPP26revG, and HIPP26forG together with HIPP26revC (supplemental Table S1). Purified PCR products were mixed and amplified by PCR using the primer HIPP26forCDEF and HIPP26revC. GST-HIPP26-1 and GST-HIPP26-4 fusion constructs were prepared by cloning the coding regions of both HIPP26 versions into the EcoRI-XhoI sites of a modified pGEX-2TK (GE Healthcare Bio-Sciences). For expression of the recombinant proteins, Rosetta (DE3) pLysS (Novagen, Madison, USA) E. coli cells were transformed with pGEX-2TKmod, pGEX-2TKmod-HIPP26-1 and pGEX-2TKmod-HIPP26-4, and the resultant strains were grown overnight. The expression of recombinant proteins was performed by adding isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside to a final concentration of 2 mM and further incubation for 3 h. Lysates containing GST alone or the GST-HIPP26 fusion constructs were incubated each with 70 μl pre-equilibrated Glutathione-Sepharose 4B resin (GE Healthcare Bio-Sciences) under gentle rotation at 4°C overnight. The GST, GST-HIPP26-1 and GST-HIPP26-4 Sepharose beads were washed with 1 ml binding buffer (phosphate-buffered saline including 1 mM fresh DTT and 0.05% (v/v) Nonidet P-40). For binding in vitro translated ATHB29 was then added. After a 1.5 h incubation under gentle rotation at 4°C the beads were washed with 900 μl binding buffer and 3 times with 900 μl binding buffer without Nonidet P-40 to remove unbound proteins and resuspended in SDS-PAGE sample buffer. Radioactive proteins were visualized by autoradiography after fractionation on 16% SDS-polyacrylamide gel.
