!~ABS~! The plant cell wall is a dynamic cellular compartment consisting of a complex matrix of components that can change dramatically in response to environmental stresses. During pathogen attack, for instance, a wide spectrum of proteins that participate in various sequential processes involved in plant defense is secreted into the cell wall. In this study, a mass spectrometry, data-independent acquisition approach known as LC/MSE was used to assess temporal changes in the cell wall proteome in response to different levels of an endogenous inducer of plant disease defense responses, salicylic acid (SA). LC/MSE was used as a label-free method that enabled simultaneous protein identification and absolute femtomole quantification of each protein secreted into the extracellular matrix. A total of 74 secreted proteins were identified, 63 of which showed increased specific secretion in response to SA. A majority of this induced secretion occurred within 2 h of treatment, indicating that many proteins are involved in the early stages of plant defenses. We also identified a number of apparently nonclassically secreted proteins, suggesting that, as in many nonplant systems, Golgi/ER-independent mechanisms exist for plant protein secretion. These results provide new insight into plant apoplastic defense mechanisms and demonstrate that LC/MSE is a powerful tool for obtaining both relative and absolute proteome-scale quantification that can be applied to complex, time- and dose-dependent experimental designs.
!~RES~! Tryptic digests of secreted proteins were analyzed using an alternate scanning mode of data acquisition (LC/MSE) on a Q-Tof mass spectrometer as described above. LC/MSE is a recently introduced, novel mode of data-independent acquisition where alternating MS scans of lower and higher collision energy are used to simultaneously capture peptide precursor intensity data and peptide fragmentation data, allowing both protein quantification and identification in the same analysis. Figure CITATIONA shows a chromatogram from one of the duplicate injections of a 6 h treatment with 1.0 mM SA. Each “stick” in the chromatogram corresponds to a unique peptide [M + H]+ at its retention time, and each peak’s height corresponds to the overall peptide intensity derived from combining the intensities of all charge states and associated isotopes for that peptide (i.e., charge state reduction and deisotoping). Within this chromatogram are highlighted 15 unique peptides (covering 43% of the protein sequence) for the extracellular dermal glycoprotein AT1G03220, several of which cannot be seen clearly without selecting a smaller retention time window. This reflects the sample complexity and the dynamic range of the observed peptide intensities. Figure CITATIONB−D shows product ion spectra for the three most intense peptides detected from AT1G03220 during this analysis. These LC/MSE spectra provide excellent product ion coverage across each peptide with relatively high mass measurement accuracy (<12 ppm rms mass errors) and are similar or identical to the expected product ion spectra that would be generated from similar CID MS/MS analyses using a data-dependent acquisition approach. The basis for absolute quantification using LC/MSE data and an example of its reproducibility is illustrated in Figure CITATION. On the basis of their intensities, the top three peptides matching to AT1G03220 were plotted for each analytical replicate at the 2 and 6 h time points (Figure CITATIONA). These peptide abundance measurements are in excellent agreement between duplicate injections and show a clear increase in intensity that parallels increased secretion of AT1G03220 between the 2 and 6 h samples. Absolute quantification of AT1G03220 was calculated by comparing the average intensities of these top three intensity peptides in each injection with a response factor generated from the average intensity of the three most intense peptides matched to the 50 fmol phosphorylase B internal standard. Comparing the resulting protein quantification between duplicate technical replicates by calculating the correlation coefficient between replicate measurements plotted as log2 intensities in a scatter plot (Figure CITATIONB) showed that reproducibility between replicate analyses was excellent (correlation coefficient = 0.988). In addition, the percent coefficient of variation (% CV) was calculated across all proteins and technical replicates. Over 86% of the duplicate injections displayed % CVs of less than 20%, another verification of the excellent analytical reproducibility obtained with the LC/MSE approach. To identify proteins involved in plant defense responses, we assessed temporal changes in the Arabidopsis secretome in response to SA. Absolute quantities of individual proteins from samples treated with 1.0 mM SA and from uninduced, HBA-treated controls at 1, 2, 6, and 18 h were compared to determine potential levels of induced secretion (Table CITATION). A total of 74 proteins were identified in the secretome with 63 of these proteins having a >2-fold increase in secretion in response to SA at one or more time points. Previous proteomic studies using standard 2D gel-based proteomic approaches identified 18 SA-responsiveCITATION and 8 chitosan/elicitor-responsiveCITATION proteins in the Arabidopsis secretome. As discussed above, a major advantage of a label-free LC/MS approach such as LC/MSE is that it does not require pairwise comparisons between samples, thus, accommodating more complex experiments. In turn, the type of factorial study reported here not only enabled us to assess time and dose effects of SA on protein secretion, but also led to identification of a larger number of SA-responsive proteins. The identified SA-responsive proteins were assigned to one or more of the 11 functional groupings described by Schoof et al.CITATION (Figure CITATION). About three-quarters of the proteins are in the four “major” groups, that is, metabolism (34%), unclassified (15%), defense-related (13%), and proteins with binding functions (12%). Other “minor” group proteins include those involved in protein fate, interaction with the environment, metabolic regulation, cellular transport, protein synthesis, cell fate, and development. Plant defense mechanisms are an interconnected set of transient as well as sustained processes that initiate immediately after pathogen attack and last for periods ranging from minutes to hours to days. These responses include the initial rapid, transient production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), with the subsequent induction of a localized hypersensitive response (HR), and ultimately the SA-mediated induction of proteins and processes comprising what is termed systemic acquired resistance. Each of these responses in turn requires the expression and function of a potentially wide range of proteins, hormones or secondary metabolites. Our longitudinal study across 18 h post SA treatment generated a picture of the distribution of proteins with significantly altered secretion over four points (induced), compared with time-matched uninduced controls (Figure CITATION). These results suggest that most induced protein secretion takes place within the first 2 h after SA treatment, with the number of proteins with induced secretion decreasing after 6 h. To further evaluate the temporal dynamics of secretome changes, SA-responsive proteins were categorized into four groups based on secretion patterns induced by 1.0 mM SA (Figure CITATION). (1) In pattern 1, induction of protein secretion reached a maximum 1 h post-treatment. There are 26 SA-responsive proteins that fall into this group, including calmodulin, glutathione transferase, peroxidase and jacalin lectin (Figure CITATIONA). (2) In pattern 2, induction of protein secretion reached a maximum 2 h after SA treatment. The 14 proteins in this group include chitinase, Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD) and a glycosyl hydrolase (Figure CITATIONB). (3) In pattern 3, induction of protein secretion reached a maximum 6 h after SA treatment. The 14 proteins in this group include a cyclase family protein, glycoside hydrolase and expansin-like proteins (Figure CITATIONC). (4) In pattern 4, secreted proteins showed two maxima over the 18 h time course. These 9 proteins include a pectinesterase, an aminopeptidase, a TSK-associating protein and a lipid transfer protein (Figure CITATIOND). The observation that a majority of proteins fell into the first two groups suggests that many secreted proteins have key roles during the early stages of plant defense. Extracellular proteins are classically characterized by the presence of an amino-terminal signal peptide in the protein sequence that has three domains: a positively charged N-region, a central hydrophobic H-region, and a polar C-region. This peptide sequence constitutes a signal that directs proteins to the ER/Golgi secretory pathway. It has been traditionally believed that this N-terminal leader peptide is strictly required for targeting specific protein secretion in plants. However, when the program SignalP 3.0 (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/SignalP/) was employed to predict the presence of a signal peptide in the 74 observed secreted proteins, there were 37 proteins without a recognizable signal peptide (Table CITATION). Among the proteins showing maximal secretion within the first hour after SA treatment, 65% lacked a signal peptide. Among those showing SA-induced maxima at 2 h, 50% lacked a signal peptide. In contrast, for proteins secreted at later time-points, only 35% lacked a signal peptide. Therefore, many of the proteins that were most rapidly secreted in response to SA might be secreted by leaderless, so-called nonclassical, Golgi-independent mechanisms. The virtual absence in our secretome samples of proteins normally abundant in the plant cytoplasm (e.g., ribosomal, actin and tubulin subunit proteins, and glycolytic enzymes) indicates that the appearance of these leaderless proteins is not a result of nonspecific cell lysis. Protein sequences were also analyzed on the neural network server SecretomeP (www.cbs.dtu.dk/Services/SecretomeP). This program is based on the observation by Bendtsen et al.CITATION that secreted proteins all share characteristic features associated with extracellular function, and that these features are independent of specific secretion mechanisms. Features assessed include specific post-translational modification consensus sequences and degradation signals, as well as protein structure, size, charge and amino acid composition. Interestingly, when we used SecrotomeP to predict secretion of the 37 leaderless proteins identified, a majority (60%) were indeed predicted to be secreted (NN-scores >0.5; Table CITATION). However, one must note that a number of classically secreted proteins (i.e., those with a signal peptide) had NN-scores <0.5 (e.g., XTR6 and BCB). Since predictions by such programs are limited by available data sets, output scores are guidelines, not precise determinations. In eukaryotes other than plants, nonclassical protein secretion has been studied for almost two decades. Since the secretion of the leaderless cytokine interleukin-1β (IL-1β) was first observed,CITATION a growing number of stress or pathogen-induced, nonclassically secreted proteins have been reported, along with a number of proposed alternate secretion mechanisms.CITATION For many of these proteins such as fibroblast growth factor 1 (FGF1), IL1β and high mobility group box 1 protein (HMGB1), the induction of secretion by stress is required.CITATION HMGB1, for example, normally plays a major role in chromatin binding and maintenance of nuclear homeostasis. However, when secreted by neural cells in response to a variety of stresses, it acts as a cytokine that promotes inflammation and participates in the pathogenesis of disorders of peripheral organs. Leaderless secretion allows proteins to be released rapidly in response to stressors without having to go through transcription, translation and subsequent secretion via the ER/Golgi pathway. It also allows a normally cytoplasmic protein to relocate to the extracellular space where it can perform alternate tasks. For example, one of the SA-responsive proteins identified in our study is Calmodulin 7, a protein lacking a signal peptide yet predicted by SecretomeP to be secreted. Calmodulin is known to be an intracellular calcium sensor, but its role as an extracellular polypeptide signal was only recently proposed.CITATION It appears then that calmodulin serves as a dual messenger with roles either inside or outside the cell depending on “environmental” requirements. Another important role for nonclassical secretion mechanisms is to provide an alternate secretory route for proteins whose passage through the ER/Golgi could be disruptive. In our study, several jacalin-related proteins were identified. These proteins lack a signal peptide, yet SecretomeP analysis predicts their secretion (Table CITATION). Since jacalin-related proteins share the domain structure of plant lectins (i.e., they bind glycoproteins), their secretion via a classical pathway would allow colocalization with and thus disruption of the secretion of glycoproteins present in the ER/Golgi. In addition to the examples above, there is an increasing number of reports of individual proteins or enzyme activities that localize to the apoplast in response to pathogen infection or stress despite the fact that the associated proteins lack a signal peptide. For example, extracellular SOD activity in stressed or pathogen-infected plants is well-documented,CITATION even though no identified plant SOD has a signal peptide. Other recent proteomic studies have also reported the presence of proteins in the plant secretome that lack an identified signal sequence.CITATION Oh et al.CITATION reported that 54% of the secreted proteins they identified lacked a signal peptide, including a methyltransferase, a heat shock protein, and several ubiquitin-like and calmodulin-like proteins. Other reports of leaderless secreted proteins include citrate synthase, luminal binding protein, phospholipase D, and lactate dehydrogenase.CITATION In some reviews of these reports, however, the extracellular appearance of these proteins has been dismissed as a result of cytosolic contamination during protein extraction.CITATION This is in spite of careful assessment of contamination usually included in these studies, such as assessing the presence of cytosolic marker proteins by activity assays and/or immunoblot analysis. It is possible that some previously unidentified signal sequences are responsible for the unexpected secretion of these proteins. However, given the substantial and still growing evidence for the unconventional secretion of proteins in nonplant systems, we should not rule out the possibility that alternative export pathways also exist in plants. Upon pathogen attack, proteins participate in a number of linked, sequential defense responses in the extracellular spaces. These include the detection of pathogen invasion, generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) termed the “oxidative burst”, and the accumulation of antimicrobial proteins. Absolute quantification enables us to more clearly identify major changes in protein secretion in response to SA and to direct our attention to the possible protective functions of these individual proteins (see Figure CITATION for examples). The detection of an attacking pathogen is believed to be mediated by various signal molecules called elicitors. Elicitor molecules include oligosaccharides, glycoproteins and lipids originating from either the invading pathogen or from the plant cell wall. Chitin, for example, is a common component of fungal cell walls, and its fragments can serve as an elicitor/signal recognized at an early stage in pathogen infection by plant plasma membrane receptors.CITATION PR3 is a pathogenesis-related protein with chitinase activity that hydrolyzes the chitin component of fungal cell walls, resulting in the release of chitin fragments that signal resistance responses.CITATION These findings are consistent with the early and massive induction of PR3 secretion we observed in response to even the lowest level of SA treatment (0.5 mM SA) (Figure CITATIONA). The perception of elicitors by the plant cell triggers a number of early defense responses. The rapid production of ROS at the site of attack is generally considered to be one of the earliest responses and is thought to be required for both its direct antimicrobial effects and for triggering the localized programmed cell death called the hypersensitive response. ROS at lower concentrations farther from the site of infection is thought also to act as a signal that induces the synthesis of SA and the ensuing induction of PR proteins that mediate acquired systemic resistance.CITATION Two mechanisms are proposed for the generation of ROS, one involving activation of a plasma membrane NADPH oxidase, the other involving the action of an extracellular cell wall peroxidase.CITATION In a previous study, cell wall-associated type III peroxidases have been proposed to play an important role in plant resistance to pathogens.CITATION Antisense expression of a French bean peroxidase cDNA in Arabidopsis led to the reduction in mRNA level of Arabidopsis peroxidase At3g49120, a decrease in the strength of the oxidative burst and decreased resistance to fungal and bacterial pathogens.CITATION The Arabidopsis gene At3g49120 encodes a type III peroxidase protein (PERX 34) whose secretion is detected immediately after SA treatment (Figure CITATIONB). This also is consistent with the hypothesized role of peroxidases in at least sustaining if not initiating the ROS that signal plant early defense responses. Another protein believed to be involved in ROS signaling is the antioxidant enzyme SOD. A pathogen-induced increase in apoplastic SOD activity previously has been reported,CITATION and this extracellular SOD is believed to catalyze the synthesis of H2O2 from NADPH-oxidase-generated superoxide. As well as generating H2O2 which is thought to be a systemic signal for induction of resistance, this SOD mediates the transient nature of the oxidative burst and prevents accumulation of toxic superoxide. In our data, significantly induced secretion of the cytosolic Cu/Zn SOD is observed within 2 h after 1.0 mM SA treatment (Figure CITATIONC). This is consistent with the proposed function of SOD in limiting the duration of the oxidative burst to an early event in plant defense. The jacalin-related protein (At3G16430) is one of the few proteins identified in our study (Figure CITATIOND) that was also reported in previous secretome studies involving plant pathogen response.CITATION Although the molecular function of jacalin-related proteins is still poorly understood, sequence analysis of these lectin proteins reveals their similarity to pathogen-induced defense genes in a number of different plants.CITATION It may be significant that some plant lectins exhibit binding specificity to mannose,CITATION an abundant sugar moiety present in surface glycoproteins of bacteria and fungi, and thus suggests a possible function for plant pathogen defense. Glutathione S-transferase (GST) is a stress-related protein involved in plant pathogen defense.CITATION The detoxifying properties of GST result from its ability to catalyze the transfer of the tripeptide glutathione to a variety of substrates. The induction of GST expression in response to pathogen infection is rapid, occurring within the first hour of SA treatment (Figure CITATIONE). Previous reports show that inoculation of Arabidopsis with avirulent Pseudomonas syringae leads to maximal gst RNA accumulation within the first 2 h, with expression decreasing 12 h after inoculation.CITATION The reported timing of up-regulation and accumulation of gst RNA agrees with the protein secretion pattern seen in our study, suggesting that GST secretion immediately follows its biosynthesis. An extracellular-dermal-like glycoprotein (AT1G03220) was also identified as being among the most abundant secreted proteins. The induced secretion of this protein reaches a maximum 6 h after SA treatment, and the protein quantity is almost 3-fold higher than even the highly abundant PR3 proteins (Figure CITATIONF). Although a role for this Arabidopsis protein in defense response has not been previously reported, BLAST results revealed its sequence similarity to an XEG inhibitor protein (XEGIP) in tomato. XEG is a xyloglucan-specific fungal endoglucanase secreted by the fungus Aspergillus aculeatus to hydrolyze plant cell walls during the infection.CITATION The observation that the XEG inhibitor protein is secreted in such massive quantities in response to SA suggests a potential direct role in inhibiting fungal endoglucanases. This recruitment of proteins with previously existing cytosolic functions that now perform additional extracellular functions in response to pathogen attack seems likely to be a common consequence of plant−pathogen coevolution. Our study of the changes in the Arabidopsis secretome in response to SA not only helps confirm the proposed protective roles of secreted proteins with previously known functions, but also provides a list of candidate proteins with previously unknown functions for future investigation. For example, Calmodulin 7 is one of the more abundant SA-responsive proteins, with secretion induced early after SA treatment (Figure CITATIONG). Although the role of intracellular calmodulin in calcium signal transduction is well-documented, the existence of a plant extracellular calmodulin and its function had not been studied until the past decade.CITATION Because calmodulin receptor-like binding proteins have been recently found on the surface of Arabidopsis suspension cells,CITATION this extracellular calmodulin was proposed to act as a peptide signal that interacts with these receptors and has been suggested to be involved in the initiation of pollen germination and tube growth.CITATION It is also reported to stimulate stomatal closure through the activation of heterotrimeric G proteins coupled with H2O2 generation and [Ca2+]cyt elevation.CITATION The data from our secretome study further suggests that extracellular calmodulins are also involved in some previously unknown aspect of plant pathogen interactions. Finally, with appropriate controls, label-free absolute protein quantification using LC/MSE enabled the separation of normal cell culture responses from true SA-induced responses. For example, the secretion of AIR12, an extracellular matrix structural constituent, is apparently a result of cell culture responses instead of a triggered defense response (Figure CITATIONH).
!~MM~! Acetonitrile (HPLC grade), dithiothreitol (DTT), formic acid (ACS reagent grade), salicylic acid (SA), 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (HBA) and iodoacetamide were from Sigma-Aldrich. Ammonium bicarbonate was from Fluka (Milwaukee, WI). Sequencing grade-modified trypsin was from Promega (Madison, WI). Water (18 MΩ) for LC/MSE analysis was distilled and purified using a High-Q 103S purification system (Wilmette, IL). All other chemicals were from Fisher Scientific or Sigma-Aldrich and used without further purification. Cell suspension cultures derived from Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia were maintained on a 7 day transfer cycle in MS mediumCITATION containing 0.5 mg/L 2,4-D (2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid) and 3% sucrose. Cell cultures were shaken at 110 rpm at 25 °C with a 12 h light/12 h dark photoperiod at a light intensity of 5 (μE/m2)/s under mixed fluorescent lights. After 7 day subculture, cells for secretion experiments were washed thoroughly and incubated for the indicated time in MS medium supplemented with 0.5 or 1.0 mM SA. For control treatments, cell medium was supplemented with 1.0 mM of HBA, an analogue of SA that does not induce plant resistance responses.CITATION Three independent experiments were performed. Each experiment consisted of 12 treatments including three SA levels (control, 0.5 mM SA and 1.0 mM SA) at four time points (1, 2, 6, and 18 h). After treatment, suspension cultures were filtered to remove cells from the medium. Following collection, protein quantities secreted into the media in response to different treatments were determined by the method of Bradford,CITATION and the sample volume to be used in subsequent analysis was determined accordingly. To ensure that proteins in the media were not a result of cell lysis, an enzymatic assay for the presence of the cytosolic enzyme glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PDH)CITATION was performed immediately upon media collection at the completion of a treatment. G6PDH enzyme activities were detected in cell lysates (0.028 units/mg protein), but not in the collected media. Media samples were then concentrated by freeze-drying and resuspension in water. Salts, small peptides, and other water-soluble medium components were then removed by dialysis against 50 mM Tris (pH 7.5) at 4 °C overnight, and final sample volumes adjusted by acetone precipitation and resuspension in 50 mM ammonium bicarbonate (pH 8.3). Because the isolated secretome is a collection of water soluble proteins, MS-compatible detergents were not necessary. Each protein sample was further assessed by immunoblot analyses to confirm the absence of the cytosolic marker protein, hexokinase (HK).CITATION G6PDH activity and HK immunoblot analyses both indicated that cytoplasmic contamination of secretome samples was extremely low. Conversely, immunoblot analyses were also used to verify consistent, experiment-to-experiment induction and secretion of the classical pathogenesis response protein PR1a.CITATION Finally, visual inspection of Coomassie-stained 1D gels for each sample was used to monitor protein recovery and relative protein quantities secreted. After confirming experiment-to-experiment reproducibility, secretome samples from three replicates from equal amounts of cells for each of the 12 time and dose treatments were pooled. Although perhaps less than ideal statistically, this was deemed necessary to reduce samples to a manageable number without compromising our MS measurements since lack of experimental variation was verified by immunological and biochemical means. Given the biological uniformity of the cell cultures as opposed to individual organisms, this approach is not unprecedented.CITATION For each pooled sample, the proteins were reduced with 5 mM DTT for 1 h at 37 °C, alkylated with 5 mM iodoacetamide for 1 h at room temperature, and proteolytically digested with trypsin by adding a 1:20 (w/w) trypsin-to-protein ratio and incubating at 37 °C overnight. Prior to LC/MSE analysis, each digested protein sample was spiked with a predigested rabbit phosphorylase B internal standard (Waters, Milford, MA) at a level of 50 fmol per 10 μL injection. For sample analysis, 10 μL aliquots of secretome tryptic digests were analyzed in duplicate (2 technical replicates per sample) by LC/MSE using a nanoACQUITY ultrapressure liquid chromatograph (UPLC) and Premier Q-Tof mass spectrometer equipped with a nanolockspray ion source (Waters). Samples were injected online onto a Waters Symmetry C18 trapping cartridge (300 μm i.d. × 1 cm length) at a flow rate of 10 μL/min. Next, peptides were separated by in-line gradient elution onto a 75 μm i.d. × 25 cm column packed with BEH C18 Stationary phase (Waters), 1.7 μm particle size, at a flow rate of 300 nL/min using a linear gradient from 2 to 40% B over 60 min (A = 0.1% formic acid in water, B = 0.1% formic acid in acetonitrile). The Q-Tof was operated in the LC/MSE mode of acquisition, where alternating 2 s scans of low (4 V) or high (10−32 V) collision energies are used to generate either intact peptide ions (low energy) or peptide product ions (high energy). Glu-fibrinopeptide at a concentration of 200 fmol/μL (m/z 785.8426) was infused via the nanolockspray ion source at a flow rate of 600 nL/min and sampled every 30 s as the external mass calibrant. Samples were injected as sets based on treatment (control, 0.5 mM SA and 1.0 mM SA) from earliest to latest time points. As protein content in the secretome typically increases over treatment dose and time, queuing samples in this manner resulted in samples with lower protein content being analyzed first. This sample order was designed to minimize protein carryover more effectively between consecutive injections than using randomized sample injection. A protein standard (tryptic digest of rabbit phosphorylase B) analyzed prior to the first sample injection and again following the last sample injection showed no significant loss in instrument sensitivity or performance during the course of the analysis. Each raw data file was processed using ProteinLynx Global Server V2.3 software (Waters) to generate charge state reduced and deisotoped precursor mass lists as well as associated product ion mass lists for subsequent protein identification and quantification. Each processed file was then searched against the TAIR7 protein database obtained from www.arabidopsis.org using the IDENTITYE database search algorithm within PLGS 2.3.CITATION Prior to searching, the internal standard rabbit phosphorylase B sequence was added to the database, and redundant entries (identical sequences reported more than once) were removed using an ad hoc C++ program. Except for the false positive rate, default search parameters were used including the “automatic” setting for mass accuracy (10 ppm for precursor ions and 15 ppm for product ions), a minimum of 1 peptide match per protein, a minimum of 3 consecutive product ion matches per protein, and a minimum of 7 total product ion matches per protein. The maximum false positive rate (FPR) against the randomized forward database was set to 2%, and the absolute protein quantification functionality was enabled using the phosphorylase B internal standard. Only 1 missed tryptic cleavage site was allowed during the search. A fixed carbamidomethyl-Cys modification was used, in addition to the following variable modifications: deamidation of Asn and Gln; oxidation of Met; and dehydration of Ser and Thr (in-source modification). Following database searching, identified proteins and their amounts derived from absolute quantification were compared across injections to determine dose- and time-dependent secretion profiles. “Missing” data (proteins not identified in a given injection or treatment) were replaced with a value representing the limit of detection as determined by the smallest detected protein amount within the data set (3 fmol). Outlier absolute quantification values between technical replicates were manually corrected by normalizing peptide intensities of the protein of interest against the intensities of peptides from the spiked internal standard.
