!~ABS~! Purification of low-abundance plasma-membrane (PM) protein complexes is a challenging task. We devised a tandem affinity purification tag termed the HPB tag, which contains the biotin carboxyl carrier protein domain (BCCD) of Arabidopsis 3-methylcrotonal CoA carboxylase. The BCCD is biotinylated in vivo, and the tagged protein can be captured by streptavidin beads. All five C-terminally tagged Arabidopsis proteins tested, including four PM proteins, were functional and biotinylated with high efficiency in Arabidopsis. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing an HPB-tagged protein, RPS2::HPB, were used to develop a method to purify protein complexes containing the HPB-tagged protein. RPS2 is a membrane-associated disease resistance protein of low abundance. The purification method involves microsomal fractionation, chemical cross-linking, solubilization, and one-step affinity purification using magnetic streptavidin beads, followed by protein identification using LC-MS/MS. We identified RIN4, a known RPS2 interactor, as well as other potential components of the RPS2 complex(es). Thus, the HPB tag method is suitable for the purification of low-abundance PM protein complexes.
!~RES~! The BCCDs of Arabidopsis MCCA and tomato MCCA share 65% identity and 82% similarity. Based on the successful use of the BCCD of tomato MCCA (CITATION), we chose the 80 amino acid sequence at the C-terminus of Arabidopsis MCCA (At1g03090), which contains the BCCD, as the biotin affinity tag in our study (Figure 1a). An HA epitope tag and a PreScission™ protease (GE Healthcare Life Sciences, http://www.gelifescience.com) recognition site were placed in front of the biotin tag (Figure 1a), resulting in a TAP tag that was termed the HPB (HA–PreScission–Biotin) tag. The HPB tag was designed to create C-terminal fusions to proteins of interest. Biotinylation of the tag facilitates high-affinity purification using a streptavidin matrix. If needed, a TAP strategy can be applied using the HPB tag: tagged proteins bound to a streptavidin matrix can be cleaved using the PreScission™ enzyme and released from the matrix, and the released protein with the HA tag can be further affinity-purified using an anti-HA antibody. However, we used one-step affinity purification based on the biotin–streptavidin interaction because it resulted in sufficient purity and allowed much higher yield of the tagged protein than a TAP procedure. [[FIGURE]] To facilitate C-terminal tagging and expression of the tagged protein in plants, we constructed two Gateway® destination vectors, pMDC32-HPB and pMDC-pRPS2-HPB, which have two copies of the CaMV 35S promoter (2 × 35S) or the RPS2 promoter, respectively. The destination vectors were both produced using the backbone sequence of pMDC32 (CITATION) (Figure 1b). A good tag should not affect the function of the tagged protein. Five Arabidopsis proteins and one E. coli protein, β-glucuronidase (GUS), were tagged and transgenically expressed in Arabidopsis. The five Arabidopsis proteins included three membrane-localized R proteins (RPM1, RPS2 and RPS5) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), one PM-localized RLK (FLS2) (CITATION; CITATION) and one soluble protein (NPR1) that shuttles between the cytoplasm and the nucleus (CITATION). RPM1::HPB and RPS2::HPB were driven by the RPS2 promoter. RPS5::HPB and FLS2::HPB were driven by their own promoters. NPR1::HPB and GUS::HPB were driven by the 2 × 35S promoter. An rpm1 rps2 double mutant line was transformed with the RPS2::HPB or RPM1::HPB constructs. The rps5, fls2 and npr1 mutant lines were transformed with the RPS5::HPB, FLS2::HPB and NPR1::HPB constructs, respectively. Col-0 wild-type plants were transformed with the GUS::HPB construct. For each construct (except GUS::HPB, for which only one line was used), two individual T4 or T5 lines, each carrying the transgene at a single locus, were selected for further study. R proteins confer gene-for-gene resistance by directly or indirectly recognizing specific effector proteins delivered from pathogens (CITATION). RPM1 recognizes the effector AvrRpm1, RPS2 recognizes AvrRpt2, and RPS5 recognizes AvrPphB (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Recognition results in rapid activation of defense responses and consequent limitation of pathogen growth. It is often associated with localized programmed cell death, known as the hypersensitive response (HR), at pathogen infection sites (CITATION). Plants with RPM1, RPS2 or RPS5 limit pathogen growth and display an HR when challenged with pathogens expressing AvrRpm1, AvrRpt2 or AvrPphB, respectively. We tested each of the HPB-tagged R genes for complementation of R-gene mutations by monitoring bacterial growth and the HR. (Figure 2a) shows complementation of rpm1 by RPM1::HPB. The left panel shows that the titer of Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato DC3000 (Pto) expressing AvrRpm1 was as low in both RPM1::HPB lines as in wild-type Col plants, but the titer in the parental rpm1 rps2 line was more than 100 times higher. The right panel shows that the HR was as strong in both RPM1::HPB lines as in wild-type plants, but was absent in the parental double mutant line. Thus, RPM1::HPB was functional. Analogous experiments shown in (Figure 2b,c) show that RPS2::HPB and RPS5::HPB were also functional. [[FIGURE]] FLS2 can recognize a 22 amino acid peptide (flg22) from bacterial flagellin and trigger downstream signaling that activates defense responses (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Pre-treatment of wild-type plants (FLS2) with flg22 induces strong resistance against Pto (CITATION; CITATION). We pre-treated FLS2::HPB lines with flg22 and tested induced resistance to Pto. In both FLS2::HPB lines, like wild-type plants, growth of Pto was reduced 300- to 3000-fold compared to the fls2 mutant, indicating that FLS2::HPB is functional. Seedlings of npr1 plants are more sensitive to exogenous salicylic acid (SA) than those of wild-type (CITATION). By growing seedlings on MS agar plates supplemented with 50 μm sodium salicylate, we found that both NPR1::HPB lines, like Col, were more resistant than the parental npr1 mutant to exogenous SA (Figure 2e), indicating that NPR1::HPB was functional. Histochemical staining of GUS enzyme activity in the GUS::HPB line also indicated that the HPB tag did not affect the GUS enzyme function (Figure 2f). Thus, all of the six proteins that we tagged with the HPB tag at their C-termini were functional in Arabidopsis. Next we tested biotinylation of the HPB-tagged proteins in Arabidopsis. One transgenic line for each construct was arbitrarily chosen to produce protein extracts for detection of biotinylated proteins. RPS2::HPB, RPM1::HPB, RPS5::HPB, FLS2::HPB and GUS::HPB proteins were all detected at expected molecular sizes when biotinylated proteins were visualized on a protein blot using peroxidase-conjugated streptavidin (Figure 3a). Two major endogenous biotinylated proteins, MCCA at approximately 78 kDa and the biotin carboxyl carrier proteins at approximately 30 kDa, were also detected (Figure 3a). The size of NPR1::HPB is too close to that of MCCA to allow them to be distinguished. Therefore, we captured biotinylated proteins using streptavidin beads and then subjected the captured proteins to protein blotting with an anti-HA antibody to detect the HA epitope in NPR1::HPB. (Figure 3b) shows that most NPR1::HPB was captured by streptavidin beads, as the amount in the bound fraction was much greater than in the unbound fraction and was comparable to the amount in the total fraction. This indicates that NPR1::HPB was also efficiently biotinylated. [[FIGURE]] We also examined the biotinylation efficiency in one line each for RPS5::HPB and GUS::HPB, which are membrane-associated and soluble, respectively. These lines expressed the tagged proteins at relatively high levels, which enabled the biotinylation analysis. For these HPB-tagged proteins, we visualized biotinylated proteins on a protein blot using peroxidase-conjugated streptavidin (Figure 3c, top panel), as well as HA tag-containing proteins using anti-HA antibody (Figure 3c, middle panel). Not all biotinylated HPB-tagged proteins were captured by the streptavidin beads, as we were able to detect biotinylated proteins in the unbound lanes (Figure 3c, top panel). The important point is that the ratios of band intensities among the total, unbound and bound lanes between biotin-visualized and HA-visualized blots for each of RPS5::HPB and GUS::HPB are very similar. If the unbound fraction contains a significant amount of non-biotinylated HPB-tagged protein, the ratio for the HA-visualized band in the unbound lane should be greater than the ratio for the biotin-visualized band in the unbound lane. Therefore, these results indicate that most RPS5::HPB and GUS::HPB molecules were biotinylated. As we were particularly interested in RPS2, we proceeded with purification of protein complex(es) containing RPS2::HPB. There are several advantages to using RPS2::HPB for technology development. (1) As RPS2 is tightly associated with the PM (CITATION), a method developed with RPS2 will probably be applicable to PM proteins in general. (2) As RPS2::HPB was expressed at a low level in the transgenic line used (line 1; Figure 3a), a method developed with RPS2 will probably be highly robust. (3) RIN4 can be used as a positive control because it is known to physically interact with RPS2 (CITATION; Mackey et al., 2002, 2003). For improvement of the purification method, we focused on four aspects: reduction of endogenous biotinylated proteins, solubilization of PM proteins, capturing biotinylated RPS2::HPB, and cross-linking. We found that enrichment of microsomes by centrifugation greatly increased the ratio of RPS2::HPB to the major endogenous biotinylated proteins (Figure 4a, compare lane 2 and lane 1). We also explored the possibility of genetically removing major endogenous biotinylated proteins. A T-DNA insertion line (SALK_137966) in which the MCCA gene was interrupted was morphologically similar to wild-type. As MCCA is mainly involved in leucine degradation in the mitochondria (CITATION), it is unlikely that it will affect PM protein complex formation. We crossed the mcca mutation into RPS2::HPB line 1 plants. Detection of biotinylated proteins from the microsomal fraction clearly showed that MCCA was eliminated in RPS2::HPB mcca plants (Figure 4a, compare lane 3 and lane 2). Therefore, RPS2::HPB mcca plants were used for all further experiments. [[FIGURE]] To solubilize RPS2::HPB from the microsomes, various detergent conditions were tested. Lipid rafts, a specialized PM structure, are not solubilized using mild non-ionic Triton X–100 at 4°C (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, we included in our tests ionic detergents, such as sodium deoxycholate and sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), alone and in combination with non-ionic detergents, such as Triton X–100 and 4-nonylphenyl-polyethylene glycol (NP-40). We found that 0.5% and 1% w/v sodium deoxycholate alone effectively solubilized RPS2::HPB from microsomes (Figure S1a). Interestingly, sodium deoxycholate specifically reduced solubilization and capture of the approximately 30 kDa biotin carboxyl carrier protein (Figure 4a, lane 4). Using HEPES-based resuspension buffer containing 0.5% sodium deoxycholate and 150 mm NaCl for solubilization and the following bead-binding step, RPS2::HPB was the only major biotinylated protein bound to streptavidin beads (Figure 4a, lane 4). Consequently, we adopted these conditions. To cross-link the components of the RPS2::HPB protein complex(es), we tested two cross-linkers, formaldehyde and dithiobis[succinimidyl propionate] (DSP). Both are membrane-permeable and easily reversible or cleavable. Formaldehyde has been used to recover soluble GVG protein complex from plant extract in a TAP purification approach (CITATION). DSP has been used for identification of protein transport complexes in the chloroplastic envelope membrane (CITATION) and an ER transport receptor complex (CITATION). We decided to cross-link proteins in the microsomal fraction rather than in whole-plant tissues because a well-controlled cross-linking reaction could easily be performed using the microsomal fraction in microfuge tubes, and because a small amount of toxic cross-linker was sufficient. Solubilization of RPS2::HPB was very difficult after treating microsomes with 1% formaldehyde (Figure S1b). On the other hand, the majority of RPS2::HPB was solubilized after cross-linking with 5 mm DSP (Figure S1c), so we decided to use DSP. We further found that 1 mm DSP worked as well as 5 mm DSP with respect to solubilization of RPS2::HPB (data not shown), capture of RPS2::HPB with streptavidin beads (Figure 4b, two upper panels), and co-purification of the known interactor RIN4 (Figure 4b, third panel from top). More RIN4 was co-purified when cross-linker was used, even though less RPS2::HPB was recovered (Figure 4b). We concluded that a cross-linking step is necessary for purification of RPS2::HPB protein complex(es) under our experimental conditions. We inspected the effectiveness of cross-linking using mobility shift on SDS–PAGE gels. Protein purification using RPS2::HPB mcca and wild-type was carried out under optimized conditions (see Experimental procedures). Both cross-link-cleaved and non-cleaved samples were subjected to SDS–PAGE and protein blotting. As expected, both RPS2::HPB and RIN4 were detected as clear bands in the cleaved samples (Figure 4c, left). In non-cleaved samples, RPS2::HPB was detected as a smear extending towards the high molecular weight side (Figure 4c, right), indicating that RPS2::HPB was cross-linked to other proteins. Furthermore, in the non-cleaved sample, RIN4 was not detected at its expected size, suggesting that RIN4 was also cross-linked (Figure 4c, right). As mentioned above, we decided that it was necessary to use cross-linking in our procedure. In general, cross-linking is an attractive option for revealing interactions that involve membrane proteins because it allows use of harsh detergent conditions to solubilize membrane proteins without disrupting protein–protein interactions (CITATION; CITATION). However, cross-linking may reduce the specificity of identification of protein complex components. As the spacer arm length of DSP is 12 Å, proteins in the vicinity of RPS2 could be cross-linked to RPS2 even if they do not form complexes with RPS2. In view of this, protein samples from transgenic plants expressing an unrelated PM protein tagged with HPB would serve as better negative controls than those from plants in which no HPB-tagged protein was expressed. Some proteins that are cross-linked to RPS2 only due to their close proximity could also be cross-linked to the unrelated PM protein. Such proteins could be excluded from the list of potential interactors. In any case, proteins identified by our procedure that uses cross-linking need to be considered as candidates for components of the RPS2 complex until they are verified by other methods. We conducted large-scale purification procedures using RPS2::HPB mcca and mcca control plants. (Figure 5a) shows a flow chart describing the major steps of the procedure. Briefly, microsomes were collected from 30 g Arabidopsis leaf tissue, cross-linked with 1 mm DSP, solubilized with 0.5% sodium deoxycholate and then subjected to binding to streptavidin magnetic beads. The captured proteins were then eluted using SDS sample buffer containing a strong reducing agent, 2-mercaptoethanol, and used for SDS–PAGE. A long run of SDS–PAGE resulted in well-separated protein bands visualized using silver staining (Figure 5b). The mcca control samples contained only a few weak non-specific bands, except for one major non-specific band marked by an arrow (Figure 5b). Compared with a known amount of GUS::HPB protein (35 ng) purified from an E. coli strain expressing it, more than 50 ng of RPS2::HPB was estimated to be purified (Figure 5b). Multiple bands that were specific to the RPS2::HPB sample were observed (Figure 5b), which represent RPS2 complex component candidates. [[FIGURE]] To identify the potential components of the RPS2::HPB protein complex(es), we subjected the RPS2::HPB mcca sample and the mcca control sample to tryptic digestion and LC-MS/MS analysis (CITATION). A total of eight biological replicates of each sample were analyzed, and an inclusion list for targeted detection of peptides with specific m/z values was used in the last two replicates for protein identification (see below). To decrease the false discovery rate, we applied the following criteria to select potential RPS2 complex components: (1) identified in some replicates of the RPS2::HPB sample but never in any replicates of the control sample, with protein identification probability >50%; (2) identified at least three times with a protein identification probability of 90% or higher; (3) identified at least twice with coverage of two or more peptides (except for RIN4, which was identified once with three peptides and three times with one peptide). This list included RPS2 and its known interactor RIN4. Other proteins on the list were all considered as potential RPS2 protein complex components, although the number of replicates in which they were identified varied (Table 1). RPS2::HPB was identified in every replicate. However, RIN4 was not identified every time. We reasoned that this was due to a limitation of the identification method, which measures ionized trypsin-digested peptides from a complex protein mixture. RIN4 is a rather small protein (approximately 23 kDa) and has relatively few peptides available for detection, thus it has a relatively low chance of being identified. The order of proteins is in decreasing order of confidence.aThe number of times that a particular protein was identified in the first six experiments.bThe number of times that a particular protein was identified in the last two experiments for which the inclusion list was used.cThe molecular functions/biological processes listed are mainly according to TAIR (http://www.arabidopsis.org/).dIncluded in the inclusion list for the last two experiments. To test this possibility, we produced an inclusion list containing the mass/charge (m/z) data for theoretical tryptic digests of RIN4 and a number of other proteins that were arbitrarily chosen based on previous experiments (Table S1). We analyzed the last two biological replicates by LC-MS/MS, in which the ions with the m/z values specified in the inclusion list (Table S2) were preferentially selected based on the first MS results for the subsequent analysis, while other ions detected as peaks in the first MS were also analyzed. In this way, RIN4 was identified specifically in both replicates of the RPS2::HPB sample. Identification of other proteins was not much improved by use of the inclusion list. This could be because only an incomplete set of peptide information compared to RIN4 (Table S1) was included in the inclusion list, or because they were not recovered in sufficient quantity for identification. The number of peptides that can be on the inclusion list is limited because if there are too many peptides on the list it does not sufficiently narrow the m/z selections. Thus, we consider an inclusion list as a means to validate known candidates. We also detected non-specific proteins present in both the RPS2::HPB and control samples, which are listed in Table S4. The potential RPS2 complex components are listed in Table 1. Some of them may function in RPS2-mediated resistance. Although they are no more than component candidates, this discussion could help prioritize them for further research. One aquaporin PM intrinsic protein (PIP) (At2g45960) was identified. Some other aquaporin PIPs were also detected, but did not pass the strict criteria used for the candidate list in Table 1 (Table S3). Aquaporin PIPs transport water (CITATION; CITATION). As plant cells undergoing an HR lose water rapidly, aquaporin PIPs may play a direct role in the HR response. Alternatively, the pathogens may try to manipulate aquaporin PIPs for their own benefit. For example, stomata are the main passage for entry of bacterial pathogens into plants, and aquaporins may be involved in ABA-induced closure of stomata (CITATION). Pathogen effectors might modify aquaporins to keep the stomata open. RPS2-mediated resistance has a positive effect in maintaining closure of stomata (CITATION). Aquaporins complexed with RPS2 might be ‘guarded’ (CITATION) by RPS2, and modification of the aquaporins by pathogen effectors might trigger RPS2-mediated resistance. Two band 7 proteins (At1g69840 and At3g01290; 74% identical in amino acid sequences) were identified. Both of them contain the stomatin/prohibitin/flotillin/HflK/C (SPFH) domain which is present in band 7 proteins of both prokaryotes and eukaryotes (CITATION; CITATION). All members of the SPFH domain family are enriched in lipid rafts (CITATION; CITATION). Lipid rafts are specialized PM microdomains that are enriched with sphingolipids and cholesterol, and their possible functions in plants have been discussed recently (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). SPFH domain proteins tend to oligomerize (CITATION), and are thought to function as scaffolds (CITATION; CITATION). Thus, the band 7 proteins may provide a scaffold for the RPS2 complex in lipid rafts. In plants, band 7 genes are also referred to as hypersensitive-induced reaction (HIR) genes because some members are highly induced in plant tissue that is undergoing an HR (CITATION; CITATION). However, it is not known how band 7 proteins are involved in R gene-mediated resistance. Aquaporin PIPs (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; Shahollari et al., 2004, 2007) and band 7 family proteins (CITATION; CITATION) are localized in lipid rafts. As we used chemical cross-linking, identified candidates may not actually be present in RPS2 complexes but merely in the vicinity of RPS2. Even if this is the case, our results suggest possible enrichment of RPS2 in lipid rafts, in which pathogen entry and signal transduction events often occur (CITATION). Blue-light receptor kinases phototropin 1 (PHOT1, At3g45780) and phototropin 2 (PHOT2, At5g58140) were identified. PHOT1 and PHOT2 have overlapping functions in phototropism, stomatal opening, chloroplast accumulation, and leaf expansion and movement (CITATION; CITATION). The HR response and SA accumulation triggered by bacterial and viral pathogens are light-dependent, and phytochrome is involved (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). It is not known whether phototropin-signaling is also involved in the light dependence of R gene-mediated responses. Epithiospecifier modifier 1 (ESM1) is involved in glucosinolate breakdown and defense against insects (CITATION; CITATION). ESM1 appears to have a regulatory function that inhibits production of nitrile while promoting production of isothiocyanate (CITATION). Although no evidence has been observed for involvement of RPS2 in insect defense, co-purification of ESM1 suggests such a possibility. The potential components that we identified are not necessarily localized in a single protein complex. RPS2 may be a component of multiple complexes. Our approach cannot distinguish different complex species. However, the identities of the components in these multiple species, some of which are specific to particular species, will provide us with a means to distinguish them. As an R protein may guard multiple pathogen effector targets, and as R protein complexes may undergo dynamic changes upon activation, knowledge regarding multiple R protein complex species is important for understanding how the mechanisms of R gene-mediated resistance are organized.
!~MM~! All the materials generated in this study are freely available for non-profit research. The sequences of pMDC32-HPB and pMDC-pRPS2-HPB (Figure 1) have been deposited in Genbank as FJ172534 and FJ172535, respectively. Details of construction of the plasmids are described in Appendix S1. All the primers used in the study are listed in Table S1. Both rps5 (SALK_015294) and mcca (SALK_137966) are T-DNA insertion mutants (http://signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/tdnaexpress). SALK_015294 was genotyped using primers LBe, LP1 and RP1, and SALK_137966 was genotyped using primers LBe, LP2 and RP2 (CITATION). The fls2–17 mutant (SAIL_694_C4) is also a T-DNA insertion mutant (CITATION). The npr1–1 mutant is an EMS mutant with a histidine-to-tyrosine change at residue 334 of the NPR1 protein (CITATION). The rpm1 rps2 double mutant was derived from a cross of rps2–101C (CITATION) and rpm1–3 (CITATION). The Pto bacterial strains carrying avrRpm1 (CITATION), avrRpt2 (CITATION), avrPphB (CITATION) or the empty vector pLAFR3 (CITATION) were cultured in King’s B medium with rifampicin (25 μg ml−1) and tetracycline (10 μg ml−1). Plant growth, flg22 treatment and bacterial growth assays were performed as described by CITATION. For each sample, 0.2 g leaf tissue of 5- to 6-week-old Arabidopsis was flash frozen using liquid nitrogen and ground with a mortar and pestle. Then 400 μl of Extraction buffer [50 mm HEPES, 150 mm NaCl, 10% glycerol (w/v), 1% NP-40 (w/v), 0.5% sodium deoxycholate (w/v), 1 mm DTT, 1 mm PMSF, 1 μg ml−1 leupeptin, 1 μg ml−1 pepstatin, 1 μg ml−1 E-64, Complete Mini protease inhibitor cocktail, pH 7.6 (all the protease inhibitors were obtained from Roche Applied Science, http://www.roche-applied-science.com) was added, and the tissue was ground further. After centrifugation at 16 000 g for 30 min at 4°C, 100 μl supernatant was incubated with 100 μl pre-washed streptavidin-coated Dynabeads® M-280 magnetic beads (Invitrogen) at 4°C for 1 h. After incubation, the beads were washed three times, each of which was performed by a brief vortexing of the tube, with extraction buffer, and the bound proteins were eluted by boiling in 1× SDS sample buffer (62.5 mm Tris/HCl, 2% w/v SDS, 10% glycerol, 1% w/v 2-mercaptoethanol, 0.01% bromophenol blue, pH 6.8) for 10 min. All the procedures described in this section were performed at 4°C. For each sample, 30 g of fresh leaf tissue from 5- to 6-week-old Arabidopsis was cut into pieces with scissors and ground with a mortar and pestle in 150 ml grinding buffer (50 mm HEPES-KOH pH 7.5, 10 mm EDTA, 330 mm sucrose, 0.6% polyvinylpolypyrrolidone, 1 mm DTT, 1 mm PMSF, 1 μg ml−1 leupeptin, 1 μg ml−1 pepstatin, 1 μg ml−1 E-64). The homogenate was filtered through double layered Miracloth (Calbiochem, http://www.emdbioscience.com). The filtered fraction was centrifuged at 18 000 g for 10 min, and the supernatant was further centrifuged at 100 000 g for 1 h. The microsome pellet was resuspended in resuspension buffer (20 mm HEPES-KOH pH 7.5, 1 mm EDTA, 330 mm sucrose, 1 mm PMSF, 1 μg ml−1 leupeptin, 1 μg ml−1 pepstatin, 1 μg ml−1 E-64) to a total volume of 6 ml. DSP (100 mm; Pierce, http://www.piercenet.com) was added to the microsome suspension to a final concentration of 1 mm, and the suspension was incubated on a rotator for 30 min. The cross-linking reaction was quenched by adding 1 m Tris/HCl (pH 7.5) to a final concentration of 50 mm, and incubated on a rotator for 30 min. The cross-linker-treated microsomes were collected by centrifugation at 100 000 g for 30 min, and resuspended in resuspension buffer to a final volume of 6 ml. Proteins were solubilized from the microsomes by adding 10% w/v sodium deoxycholate to a final concentration of 0.5%, and incubated on a rotator for 30 min and then centrifuged at 100 000 g for 30 min. Bead binding was conducted by incubating 300 μl pre-washed Dynabeads® M-280 with solubilized supernatant on a rotator for 1 h. The streptavidin beads were washed three times with RIPA buffer 1 (50 mm Tris/HCl pH 7.4, 150 mm NaCl, 1 mm EDTA, 1% NP-40, 0.5% sodium deoxycholate, 1 mm PMSF, 1 μg ml−1 leupeptin, 1 μg ml−1 pepstatin, 1 μg ml−1 E-64) and then three times with RIPA buffer 2 (same as RIPA buffer 1 except 50 mm NaCl is used instead of 150 mm NaCl). The bound cross-linked proteins were cleaved and eluted by boiling the beads in 120 μl 1× SDS sample buffer with 5% v/v fresh 2-mercaptoethanol for 10 min. Details of the complex component candidate identification and electrophoresis and blotting of proteins are described in Appendix S1.
