!~ABS~! Phosphatidylinositol-4-monophosphate 5-kinases produce phosphatidylinositol (4,5)-bisphosphate [PtdIns(4,5)P2] and have been implicated in vesicle trafficking and cytoskeletal rearrangements. Here, we adopted a reverse genetics approach to investigate the function of the Arabidopsis thaliana pollen-expressed gene encoding phosphatidylinositol-4-monophosphate 5-kinase 4 (PIP5K4). Pollen germination, tube growth, and polarity were significantly impaired in homozygous mutant plants lacking PIP5K4 transcript. In vitro, supplementation with PtdIns(4,5)P2 rescued these phenotypes. In vivo, mutant pollen fertilized ovules, leading to normal seed set and silique length. However, fertilization took longer than in wild-type plants, and the pip5k4 null mutant allele was transmitted through the pollen at a reduced frequency. Analysis of endocytic events using FM1-43 (or FM4-64) suggested a reduction in endocytosis and membrane recycling in pip5k4 null mutant pollen tubes. Imaging of elongating tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) pollen tubes transiently transformed with a PIP5K4-green fluorescent protein fusion construct revealed that the protein localized to the plasma membrane, particularly in the subapical region. Overexpression of PIP5K4-GFP delocalized the protein to the apical region of the plasma membrane, perturbed pollen tube growth, and caused apical cell wall thickening. Thus, PIP5K4 plays a crucial role in regulating the polarity of pollen tubes. This study supports a model for membrane secretion and recycling where the apical and subapical regions appear to contain the components required to promote and sustain growth.
!~RES~! PIP5 kinases use PtdIns4P as a substrate for the synthesis of PtdIns(4,5)P2. Several isoforms have been characterized in animal cells, but only one has been reported for yeast: MSS4 (CITATION). In Arabidopsis, nine genes of this B subfamily, expressed in different tissues, were identified by genome analysis (CITATION). To select and characterize our genes of interest, we determined which Arabidopsis PIP5 kinase genes are expressed in pollen using the Genevestigator portal (CITATION). This in silico tool suggested that PIP5K4, PIP5K5, and PIP5K6 are highly expressed in pollen. To confirm the tissue-specific expression, the promoter region of each gene was fused to a reporter gene encoding β-glucuronidase (GUS) and transformed into Arabidopsis plants. Histochemical staining of tissues from transgenic plants demonstrated high GUS activity in the pollen grains within the anthers (Figure 1A ) and in germinated pollen tubes (Figure 1B) but not in pistils leaves, roots, or root hairs of young seedlings. [[FIGURE]] To confirm that the isolated PIP5 kinases encode functional enzymes, a yeast mutant phenotype rescue assay was performed. Saccharomyces cerevisae MSS4 is the functional homolog of mammalian type I PI4P5 kinase (CITATION), and we tested the ability of the isolated Arabidopsis PIP5 kinases genes to complement the mss4-1 temperature-sensitive mutant. MSS4 wild-type cells transformed with the empty pGBT9 vector were used as a positive control, and mutant mss4-1 cells transformed with the empty pGBT9 vector were used as a negative control. When the cells were incubated at the permissive temperature (23°C), all of the transformed yeast cells grew normally. However, in the replica plate incubated at the restrictive temperature (37°C), mss4-1 cells transformed with the empty pGBT9 vector did not grow, whereas mss4-1 cells transformed with the PIP5K4, PIP5K5, and PIP5K6 genes from Arabidopsis were viable. These results indicate that the coding regions of the isolated PIP5 kinases encode functional enzymes (Figure 1C; see Supplemental Figure 1 online). A reverse genetics approach was used to evaluate the function of PIP5 kinases in pollen. By screening the Salk Institute Genomic Analysis Laboratory collection for T-DNA insertion mutants, we retrieved one T-DNA insertion in the PIP5K4 gene (pip5k4, SALK_001138) and one T-DNA insertion in the PIP5K5 gene (pip5k5, SALK_147475.30.40.X). No T-DNA insertion lines were identified for the PIP5K6 gene. DNA sequencing of the regions adjacent to the T-DNA left border confirmed that in the PIP5K4 gene, the insertion was found to disrupt the coding sequence in the first exon, downstream of the initiation codon (Figure 2A ), as had been previously observed by CITATION. Similarly, in the PIP5K5 gene, the insertion was found to disrupt the coding sequence also in the first exon. RT-PCR analysis of homozygous mutant lines showed a null expression of PIP5K4 and PIP5K5 (Figure 2B), confirming that the pip5k4 and pip5k5 homozygous mutant plants are knockout mutants. [[FIGURE]] The pollen grains from pip5k4 homozygous flowers were found to be indistinguishable from wild-type pollen in shape and size. The 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole staining showed correctly differentiated, normal sized vegetative and sperm cell nuclei. Alexander and aniline blue staining revealed that there were no abnormalities in the cytoplasm or wall of the pollen grain or in callose accumulation (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). However, their germination efficiency under in vitro conditions was significantly lower than that of the wild-type controls (18.7% ± 10.4% and 45.5% ± 16.9%, respectively; P = 7E−11) (Figures 2C to 2E). Furthermore, the germinated pip5k4 pollen tubes were shorter and exhibited a significantly higher percentage of abnormal morphologies, namely, partial loss of polarity and deformed and/or branch-like growth (Figure 2F and sections below for further details). In wild-type pollen, the frequency of abnormal morphologies was found to be 11.8% (n = 423), a percentage that increased to 41.4% in pip5k4 cells (n = 461). These observations suggested that PIP5K4 is important for pollen germination and plays a crucial role in the maintenance of tip growth. To confirm this phenotype, we evaluated two pip5k4 T-DNA insertion lines complemented with a construct expressing the full-length cDNA of PIP5K4 driven by its own promoter (kindly provided by CITATION). Upon confirmation of the T-DNA insertion and of the complementation, pollen from both lines was grown and phenotype rescue was observed. Germination efficiency was restored to values near those of the wild type (Figure 2E; P = 0.175), and no significant morphological differences (i.e., in length and shape) could be found between wild-type and complemented pollen (Figure 2G). An analysis of pollen from pip5k5 homozygous flowers revealed no significant differences compared with wild-type pollen with regards to shape, size, and germination efficiency. Furthermore, genetic analysis of the progeny of pip5k5 heterozygous plants showed that the pip5k5 allele segregated at the expected Mendelian ratio. Thus, further studies focused on PIP5K4 mutant plants only. Despite the defect in in vitro pollen tube growth, the siliques produced by pip5k4 homozygous mutant plants were similar to those of wild-type plants. A comparison of silique length, seed count, incidence of seed gaps, and incidence of deformed seeds revealed no significant differences between pip5k4 and wild-type plants (Figure 2H). However, the impairment of pollen germination and pollen tube growth observed in vitro suggests that the pip5k4 mutation may result in decreased pollen fitness and competitiveness in vivo. Such alterations should result in a distorted transmission rate of the pip5k4 and wild-type alleles to the progeny of heterozygous pip5k4 (+/−) plants. Hence, we performed a genetic analysis of self-fertilized pip5k4 (+/−) plants to evaluate if the mutant allele is transmitted to progeny in the expected 1:2:1 Mendelian ratio. Genotyping of individual plants in the progeny populations was achieved by PCR, using sets of primers annealing to DNA within the T-DNA sequence and on either side of the insertion site. We observed reduced transmission of the mutant allele to the progeny (9.5% of homozygous plants, n = 200; χ2 = 99.63; P < 0.001), suggesting a potential defect in either male or female gametophyte (Table 1 ). To assess whether the defect was due to a problem in the male and/or female gametophytes, reciprocal outcrosses were performed between plants heterozygous for the pip5k4 allele and wild-type plants. When pollen of a mutant heterozygote was used to pollinate wild-type stigmas, there were significantly fewer heterozygotes in the progeny than predicted by Mendelian genetics (Table 2 ). This indicates a strong and unequivocal male-specific transmission defect in reciprocal outcrosses and an important role for PIP5K4 in pollen function. Most interestingly, when wild-type pollen was used to pollinate pip5k4 (+/−) heterozygous plants, the progeny demonstrated a small deviation from the expected 1:1 Mendelian ratio of heterozygotes to the wild type. This deviation is very close to the significance values but suggests that disruption of PIP5K4 also mildly affects the female gametophyte (see Supplemental Table 1 online for further details and analysis of this issue). Segregation Analysis of the pip5k4 Mutant Allele: Self-Cross of pip5k4 Heterozygous Plants Segregation Analysis of the pip5k4 Mutant Allele: Outcross of pip5k4 Heterozygous Plants Considering the genetic and morphological changes caused by disruption of PIP5K4, but the retained ability of pip5k4 homozygous mutant plants to produce normal siliques, we examined in vivo pollen tube growth in the stigma and style. Wild-type pistils were hand-pollinated with pollen grains, either from wild-type or from homozygous pip5k4 plants, and stained with aniline blue 4, 24 or 42 h after pollination. Four hours after pollination, we observed that wild-type pollen grains had germinated and that pollen tubes had crossed the stigma and reached the style (Figure 3A ). After the same period, pip5k4 mutant pollen grains had also germinated; however, pollen tubes were shorter and had not elongated beyond the stigmatic tissue (Figure 3B). These differences were more striking 24 h after pollination. At this time, wild-type pollen tubes had reached the base of the transmitting tract (Figure 3C), while pip5k4 pollen tubes were only halfway through the transmitting tract (Figure 3D), requiring ∼42 h to reach the base (Figure 3E). [[FIGURE]] In vivo differences in pollen tube growth rates between the wild-type and mutant pollen of a heterozygote can be further evidenced by a nonrandom distribution of mutant seeds within the resulting siliques (CITATION). Therefore, a top-to-bottom comparison was performed on siliques harvested from an outcross with heterozygous pollen. In this population, a significantly higher proportion of mutant heterozygotes arose from seeds in the top half of the siliques (27.4%, n = 73; χ2 = 19.9, P < 0.001), compared with the bottom half (11.8%, n = 76; χ2 = 44.3, P < 0.001). These results suggest that there is a competitive disadvantage of pip5k4 mutant pollen, due at least in part to a slower pollen tube growth rate compared to wild-type pollen. However, the pip5k4 mutation does not seem to affect other processes of fertilization, since pip5k4 pollen tubes reach the ovules and subsequently accomplish fertilization. These data are consistent with the observation that pip5k4 homozygous plants produce a complete seed set with the partial transmission defect of the PIP5K4 allele. The observation that mutant pollen was able to germinate when applied directly to the stigma and to achieve fertilization suggests that the female tissue attenuates the pip5k4 in vitro phenotype. Using the same T-DNA insertion line, CITATION showed that the stomata phenotype they observed could be reverted by the addition of extracellular PtdIns(4,5)P2. We thus investigated whether the same treatment could rescue the pollen tube mutant phenotype. For this purpose, we germinated pip5k4 pollen grains in medium supplemented with 5 μM PtdIns(4,5)P2 coupled to a shuttle carrier (CITATION). To confirm that PtdIns(4,5)P2 was loaded into the cells, a fluorescent version of this hydrophobic formulation was used (see Methods for further details) (Figure 4A ). Observations 8 h after sowing revealed that 5 μM extracellular PtdIns(4,5)P2 had no significant effect on wild-type pollen tubes. However, both the pollen germination percentage and the pollen tube growth rate of pip5k4 cells was restored to values that were not significantly different from those of the wild-type control (Figure 4B). Furthermore, pip5k4 pollen tubes loaded with PtdIns(4,5)P2 did not show abnormal morphologies (e.g., branched-like growth and partial loss of polarity), and a blind test analysis could not distinguish between wild-type and pip5k4 pollen tubes supplemented with PtdIns(4,5)P2. [[FIGURE]] PIP5K4 is a membrane-associated protein (see below), and pip5k4 mutant pollen tubes grown in vitro show morphological patterns consistent with perturbations in membrane secretion and recycling (e.g., partial loss of polarity and apical cell wall thickening). To investigate this phenomenon, we employed the fluorescent probe FM1-43. This dye has been found to be increasingly useful in exploring the endo- and exocytosis mechanisms in a variety of biological models, including pollen tubes (CITATION; CITATION). FM1-43 is a nontoxic, water-soluble dye, virtually nonfluorescent in aqueous medium, and is believed to insert into the outer leaflet of the surface membrane, where it becomes fluorescent. Since the dye stains membranes in an activity-dependent manner, it has proven useful for studies of vesicle recycling, exocytosis, and endocytosis (CITATION). Confocal imaging of growing Arabidopsis wild-type pollen tubes labeled with the styryl dye FM1-43 for 10 to 15 min revealed a fluorescent staining similar to what had been reported for pollen of other species (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), with a stronger signal in the plasma membrane and an intracellular apical gradient indicative of higher vesicle density in this region (Figure 5A ). By contrast, pip5k4 pollen tubes, imaged under the same acquisition settings, had a weaker signal both in the plasma membrane and intracellularly (Figure 5B). The apical fluorescence gradient was partially dissipated (Figure 5C; see Supplemental Figure 3 online), and in cells exhibiting loss of polarity and/or branched-like growth, it was not detectable. A detailed analysis of the intracellular and plasma membrane fluorescent ratios in the apical and subapical regions (Figure 5D) further revealed that pip5k4 pollen tubes mostly differ from the wild type in the amount of internalized dye. The significance of the data presented was confirmed by the t test (P = 5.94E−14). These observations suggest that disruption of PIP5K4 inhibits proper endocytosis and membrane recycling, which may account for the morphological disturbances exhibited by pip5k4 mutant pollen tubes. [[FIGURE]] The subcellular localization of the PIP5K4 protein was investigated using a PIP5K4-GFP C-terminal fusion construct containing the complete open reading frame of the PIP5K4 gene. The cDNAs were cloned downstream of the Lat52 promoter (CITATION). Wild-type Arabidopsis plants were stably transformed either with pLat52:GFP or with a pLat52:PIP5K4-GFP construct, and pollen tubes expressing fluorescent proteins were imaged using confocal laser microscopy. Control pollen tubes, expressing free GFP, showed a uniform distribution of GFP throughout the cytoplasm (see Supplemental Figure 4A online). By contrast, the fluorescence mainly localized to the plasma membrane in pollen tubes expressing PIP5K4-GFP, and a higher signal was observed at the flanks of the pollen tube tip (see Supplemental Figure 4B online). Although this localization pattern is consistent with a role of PIP5K4 in pollen tip growth, the signal exhibited by Arabidopsis pollen tubes was weak. Furthermore, these cells grow at a slow rate and are very sensitive to laser irradiation. This prevented collection of time-course series of growing cells to confidently establish the localization of PIP5K4. As an alternative, we transiently transformed tobacco pollen with the same pLat52:GFP and pLat52:PIP5K4-GFP constructs. This strategy had already been successfully used in previous works (CITATION). Tobacco pollen is easily transformed using biolistics, the tubes grow faster than those from Arabidopsis, and they are larger and more tolerant to the laser irradiation required for imaging (images were collected with a ≤10% laser power, and care was taken to ensure a medial section through the pollen tubes). When the PIP5K4-GFP protein was expressed at lower levels (observations made 5 to 6 h after transformation), its subcellular localization in tobacco pollen tubes was similar to that observed in Arabidopsis. In actively growing cells (growth rate of at least 3 μm·min−1), the protein seemed to localize mostly at the flanks of the apical region (Figures 6A and 6B ). However, when pollen tubes slowed down or ceased to grow, PIP5K4-GFP was also visible at the extreme apex of pollen tubes (Figure 6C), correlating growth rate with protein localization. Overexpression of higher levels of PIP5K4-GFP (observations made 7 to 8 h after transformation) led to a significantly higher amount of protein associated with the plasma membrane, and often the apical region of the plasma membrane exhibited the most intense fluorescent signal (Figures 6D and 6E). This was concomitant with perturbations of polar growth, similar to those observed in Arabidopsis PIP5K4 depleted pollen tubes, including partial loss of polarity, apical cell wall thickening, and inconsistent tube diameter. Equivalent phenotypes were observed in pollen tubes cotransformed with separate pLat52-PIP5K4 and pLat52-GFP constructs (see Supplemental Figure 5 online), thus indicating that fusing PIP5K4 to GFP did not affect its function. [[FIGURE]] To further investigate membrane secretion and recycling in tobacco pollen tubes, pollen tubes overexpressing high levels of PIP5K4-GFP fusion protein were loaded with FM4-64 (for 10 to 15 min) and imaged in dual-detection mode. FM4-64 was used instead of FM1-43 to prevent the fluorescence spectrum from overlapping with that of GFP. As previously shown (CITATION), FM1-43 and FM4-64 generate similar data in confocal imaging. In growing nontransformed pollen tubes, FM4-64 reveals a strong membrane signal and an apical gradient (Figure 7A ). Overexpression of PIP5K4 seems to diminish dye uptake and to cause dissipation of the apical gradient (Figures 7B and 7D), suggesting that regulation of PtdIns(4,5)P2 levels by PIP5K4 is essential for normal growth and maintenance of polarity. In support of this hypothesis, we found that overexpression of PIP5K4 also modifies the apical localization of PtdIns(4,5)P2 (mapped with the PH pleckstrin homology domain fused to red fluorescent protein [RFP]) (see Supplemental Figure 6 online). However, these data must be critically interpreted due to possible cytotoxic effects in cotransformation experiments (see Supplemental Figure 6 online for further details). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! For PIP5K4 promoter isolation, a 2.0-kb fragment (pPIP5K4, PIP5K4 Promoter) upstream of the translation initiation codon of the PIP5K4 gene was amplified from Arabidopsis thaliana Columbia-0 (Col-0) genomic DNA with forward (5′-CCCGGATCCCCCATTGAGAGCAGTACAATG-3′) and reverse (5′-CCCCCATGGCTTCTTAAACTAATAAAAC-3′) primers carrying BamHI and HindIII restriction sites (underlined), respectively. The PCR fragment was cloned upstream of the GUS reporter gene in pCAMBIA1301 Ti-derived binary vector (Cambia) carrying the hygromycin resistance marker. Plant transformation was performed using the floral dip method (CITATION). Seeds from transformed plants were collected, and transformants were identified by screening for hygromycin resistance. Three independent lines were recovered for analysis of GUS activity, as described by CITATION. The coding regions of pollen-expressed PIP5 kinases (4, 5, and 6) were isolated by PCR with the following sets of primers (PIP5K4 forward 5′-CCCCGCGGCCGCATGAGCAAGGAACAAAGC-3′ and reverse 5′-CCCCCCATGGTCAATTATCCTCAGTGAAG-3′; PIP5K5 forward 5′-CCCCGCGGCCGCATGAGCAAGGACCAAAGCTATG-3′ and reverse 5′-GGGGGTCGACTCAATTGTCATCTGTGAAGACC-3′; PIP5K6 forward 5′-CCCCGCGGCCGCATGTCGGTAGCACACGCAGATG-3′ and reverse 5′-GGGGGTCGACTCAAGCGTCTTCAACGAAGACC-3′). The PCR fragments were cloned in the yeast expression vector pGBT9 (Clontech) and transformed into the mss4 temperature-sensitive mutant (kindly provided by Yoshikazu Ohya, University of Tokyo, Japan). As a positive control, MSS4 wild-type cells were transformed with the empty pGBT9 vector, and as a negative control, the mutant mss4-1 cells were transformed with the empty pGBT9 vector. For temperature-sensitive mutant complementation, cells were plated on Cm-Trp plates and grown at 23°C (permissive temperature) and 37°C (restrictive temperature). All experiments were performed with Arabidopsis ecotype Col-0. Plants were grown in soil at 22°C with a 16-h-light/8-h-dark photoperiod. For the selection screening for hygromicin-resistant plants, seeds were surface-sterilized for 1 min in 70% ethanol, followed by 10 min incubation in 30% (v/v) bleach containing 0.5% Tween 20 with occasional mixing, and washed five times in sterile distilled water. Seeds were germinated and grown on half-strength Murashige and Skoog plates containing 1% agar. After 10 to 14 d, resistant plants were transferred to soil. Nicotiana tabacum (cv Petit Havana SR1) plants were grown in a greenhouse under standard conditions. Mature pollen was collected and germinated in culture as described by CITATION. Arabidopsis lines with T-DNA insertions in PIP5K4 and PIP5K5 genes in a Col-0 background were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (pip5k4, SALK_001138; pip5k5, SALK_147475.30.40.X). A PCR-based approach was used to identify homozygous lines. PCR genotyping was performed using three primers: a primer to the left border of the T-DNA insert (LBa1 5′-TGGTTCACGTAGTGGGCCATCG-3′), a pair of PIP5K4-specific primers (PIP5K4-RP 5′-TGAACGGTACTTATTATCCATCAGG-3′ and PIP5K4-LP 5′-AAGCACCTGCATTATATAATTCCAG-3′), and a pair of PIP5K5-specific primers (PIP5K5-LP 5′-ACAAGAATTTCCAGACAAGAAAATC-3′ and PIP5K5-RP 5′-AATTTCATTTTCAGATTGCAGAAAG-3′), and homozygous lines were used for further analysis. To test whether pip5k4 and pip5k5 homozygous mutant plants generate PIP5K4 or PIP5K5 transcripts, respectively, RT-PCR was performed. Total RNA from inflorescences, flowers, leaves, and roots was extracted using Trizol reagent (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer's instructions. RT-PCR was performed with the gene primer sets: PIP5K4 forward 5′-CCCCTGAGCAAGGAACAAAGC-3′ and PIP5K4 reverse 5′-CCCCCCTCAATTATCCTCAGTGAAGAC-3′ and PIP5K5 forward 5′-CCCCCATGAGCAAGGACCAAAGCTATG-3′ and PIP5K5 reverse 5′-CCCCCTCAATTGTCATCTGTGAAGACC-3′. As a positive control for RT-PCR, ACTIN8 transcript levels were also analyzed in the same tissues with the primer set: Act8Fw 5′-ACCTTGCTGGTCGTGACCTTACTG-3′ and Act8Rev 5′-GATCCCGTCATGGAAACGATGTCTC-3′. The PCR products were separated on 1% agarose gel and visualized with ethidium bromide. To assay in vitro pollen germination, wild-type and pip5k4 pollen grains were collected and cultured as described by CITATION. The pollen grains were grown at room temperature with 100% relative humidity. From each culture, at least 200 pollen grains were examined to calculate an average germination rate, and 50 pollen tubes were measured to calculate average pollen tube length. As a control for the pip5k4 mutation, we used complemented T-DNA insertion lines with a construct expressing the full-length cDNA of PIP5K4 driven by its own promoter (kindly offered by Y. Lee; see CITATION for further details). Pollen collected from these plants was grown and analyzed as described above. To perform the pipk4 mutant phenotype rescue by PtdIns(4,5)P2, pollen germination medium was supplemented with 5 μM PtdIns(4,5)P2. 5 μM ShuttlePIP Carrier-1, histone H1 (Molecular Probes) was mixed with PtdIns(4,5)P2 and allowed to equilibrate for 5 min. Then, the PtdIns(4,5)P2-Shuttle complex was added to liquid pollen germination medium, and PtdIns(4,5)P2 delivery was confirmed using BODIPY tetramethyl-rhodamine-XC6-PtdIns(4,5)P2 (Molecular Probes). Outcrosses were performed by applying pollen from newly dehiscing flowers onto the stigmas of flowers that had been surgically emasculated just prior to dehiscence. Col-0 was used as a wild-type tester in outcrosses. Silique evaluation was performed by harvesting 105 green expanded siliques from selfed pip5k4 homozygous mutant and wild-type adult plants. The siliques were cleared in 70% ethanol for 24 h and then examined under a dissecting microscope. Aniline blue staining was performed in pre-emasculated mature wild-type flowers pollinated either with wild-type pollen or pip5k4 pollen. The pollinated pistils were collected 4, 24, and 42 h after pollination and stained as described by CITATION. The stained pistils were observed with an Olympus BX-51 epifluorescence microscope (Labocontrole) and photographed with a 5 Mpx Olympus Camedia digital camera. Bright-field and/or differential interference contrast images were acquired with a PCO Sensicam-QE camera (Labocontrole) attached to an Olympus IX-50 microscope using an Olympus X40 UplanApo (numerical aperture [NA] = 0.85) objective. The intervals between image acquisitions and the exposure times were controlled by Image Pro Plus 5.0 software (Media Cybernetics). Arabidopsis and tobacco pollen tubes were labeled with FM1-43 or FM4-64, as described before (CITATION; Castanho-Coelho and Malhó, 2006). Briefly, pollen tubes were labeled with 2 μM FM solution (Molecular Probes) prepared in pollen tube growth medium and observed 10 to 15 min after labeling. Thin time-course optical sections (∼2 μm thick) were acquired with a Leica SP-E confocal laser scanning microscope using <20% laser intensity and operating in the mode 512 × 512, 400 Hz (∼1/4 s per frame). A ×20 Plan Apo dry objective (NA = 0.75) or a ×40 Plan dry (NA = 0.85) (Leica) was used. For quantification purposes, gain and offset settings were kept constant. Spectral settings were such as to prevent bleed-through between channels. Fluorescence was quantified in terms of average pixel intensity (0 to 255 scale for 8-bit images) and statistically analyzed with a Student's t test (two-tailed distribution). The PIP5K4 coding cDNA fragment without the stop codon was amplified from Col-0 genomic DNA with forward (5′-CCCCCCGGGCCCATGAGCAAGGAACAAAGCTG-3′) and reverse (5′-CCCCCCGCGGCCGCGATTATCCTCAGTGAAGAC-3′) primers carrying ApaI and NotI restriction sites (underlined), respectively. The resulting DNA fragment was cloned into the pGreen pLat52-GFP vector (CITATION) in frame with the 5′end of the GFP coding sequence, resulting in a PIPK4-GFP fusion coding sequence driven by the pLat52 promoter (CITATION). As a control, we used the PIP5K4 coding cDNA fragment with the stop codon cloned into the pGreen pLat52 vector (CITATION), resulting in the PIP5K4 gene being driven by the pLat52 promoter (CITATION). cDNA fragments encoding the PH domain (amino acids 2 to 175) of human PLC-δ1 (CITATION) were introduced into the pollen tube expression vector described above at the C terminus of yellow fluorescent protein or RFP to generate plasmids that allow the expression of fusion proteins in pollen tubes. A helium-driven PDS-1000/He particle delivery system (Bio-Rad) was used for the biolistic transformation of tobacco pollen as described by CITATION. Two micrograms of plasmid DNA was bombarded per sample. When two plasmids were cotransformed, particles were coated with 5 μg of DNA (2.5 μg of each plasmid DNA). Pollen grains were then allowed to germinate and transferred onto cover slips for microscopic analysis. Cells expressing the construct were tracked by confocal microscopy using settings and conditions similar to those used for FM imaging; since no quantification was intended in this case, the detector gain was adjusted to provide pixel intensity values between 100 and 200 (for an 8-bit image). Numerical data extraction was performed using Image-Pro Plus 5.0 software. Fluorescence measurements presented correspond to medium fluorescence intensity in the first 0 to 10 μm and 10 to 20 μm of the pollen tube cytoplasm and/or plasma membrane (apical and subapical regions, respectively). Schematic drawings in Figure 5 indicate regions and areas of measurements. Except where mentioned, numerical data in figures correspond to average measurements performed in that region of the cell. For clarity, error bars were not displayed in Figure 5. For statistical measurements of germination percentage, growth rates, phenotype, and seed count, a χ2 test was applied (values from the wild type were considered as “expected” with P < 0.01 and 1 degree of freedom). Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: PIP5K4 (At3g56960), PIP5K5 (At2g41210), and PIP5K6 (At3g07960). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Complementation of Temperature-Sensitive mss4 Yeast Mutants with Arabidopsis Pollen-Specific PIP5K5 and PIP5K6. Supplemental Figure 2. Cytological Assays of Wild-Type and pip5k4 Pollen. Supplemental Figure 3. Variability of FM1-43 Fluorescence Intensity in pip5k4 Pollen Tubes. Supplemental Figure 4. Subcellular Localization of PIP5K4-GFP Fusion Protein in Arabidopsis Pollen Tubes. Supplemental Figure 5. Phenotype of Tobacco Pollen Tube Cotransformed with PIP5K4 and GFP Constructs. Supplemental Figure 6. Tobacco Pollen Tubes Transformed with YFP-PH and PIP5K4-GFP/RFP-PH Constructs. Supplemental Figure 7. In Vitro Germination of Wild-Type, pip5k4, and pip5k4/pip5k5 Pollen. Supplemental Figure 8. Tobacco Pollen Tube Expressing the PIP5K4-GFP Fusion Protein and Poststained with Ruthenium Red. Supplemental Figure 9. Extreme Phenotype of Tobacco Pollen Tube Overexpressing PIP5K4-GFP Fusion Protein. Supplemental Table 1. Segregation Analysis of Progeny of Selfed Heterozygous Mutant Plants and Reciprocal Crosses between Wild-Type Plants and Heterozygous Mutant Plants.
