!~ABS~! A variety of approaches were used to predict dual-targeted proteins in Arabidopsis thaliana. These predictions were experimentally tested using GFP fusions. Twelve new dual-targeted proteins were identified: five that were dual-targeted to mitochondria and plastids, six that were dual-targeted to mitochondria and peroxisomes, and one that was dual-targeted to mitochondria and the nucleus. Two methods to predict dual-targeted proteins had a high success rate: (1) combining the AraPerox database with a variety of subcellular prediction programs to identify mitochondrial- and peroxisomal-targeted proteins, and (2) using a variety of prediction programs on a biochemical pathway or process known to contain at least one dual-targeted protein. Several technical parameters need to be taken into account before assigning subcellular localization using GFP fusion proteins. The position of GFP with respect to the tagged polypeptide, the tissue or cells used to detect subcellular localization, and the portion of a candidate protein fused to GFP are all relevant to the expression and targeting of a fusion protein. Testing all gene models for a chromosomal locus is required if more than one model exists.
!~RES~! Various approaches were used to computationally predict dual-targeted proteins in Arabidopsis. To predict dual targeting to mitochondria and plastids, we used the neural-network-based program Predotar (CITATION). The Predotar networks were not trained using any dual-targeted proteins, and thus the mitochondrial and plastid scores from the networks tend to be antagonistic. Indeed, the majority of known dual-targeted plastid/mitochondrial plant proteins are predicted as uniquely plastidial by Predotar. Therefore, the complete set of annotated Arabidopsis protein sequences were run through Predotar twice, once using the plant prediction networks and once using animal/fungal prediction networks that were not trained with plastid sequences. A total of 803 protein sequences were predicted to contain a plastid-targeting sequence by the plant networks and to contain a mitochondrial-targeting sequence by the animal/fungal networks (Table S1a). This list contains 15 proteins that were previously reported to be dual-targeted in Arabidopsis, which represents a significant enrichment compared to the number of known dual-targeted proteins expected to occur in a random group of this size of organelle-targeted proteins (Table 1), suggesting that this approach is useful in narrowing down candidates. The dual-targeting candidates were then ranked by their mitochondrial score using the animal/fungal networks minus the mitochondrial score using the plant networks. This ranking places most of the known dual-targeted proteins towards the top of the list (Table S1a). As a second strategy, we used available proteome datasets to predict dual targeting. The reported proteomes of mitochondria and chloroplasts have an overlap of 97 proteins (Arabidopsis subcellular proteomic (SUBA) database; CITATION and references therein), three of which have been previously reported to be dual-targeted (Table S1b), again significantly more than expected in any random group of 100 proteins (Table 1). In a third computational approach, all known and putative peroxisomal proteins in the Araperox database (CITATION) were cross-referenced against proteins that had been experimentally identified in mitochondria or chloroplasts or that were predicted to be mitochondrial or plastidial using 10 prediction programs. This produced a list of nine proteins (Table S1c). As there are no known proteins targeted to mitochondria and peroxisomes, it was not possible in advance to determine the significance of these predictions. To further identify potentially dual-targeted proteins, we focused on processes that occur in different organelles, specifically DNA replication and transcription. Several known dual-targeted proteins, such as two DNA polymerases (CITATION; CITATION), a RecA homologue (CITATION) and an RNA polymerase (CITATION), which are targeted to both mitochondria and chloroplasts, fit into this functional group. From computational screens of the Arabidopsis genome using publicly available information resources and databases (see Experimental procedures), we identified seven additional uncharacterized genes encoding proteins potentially involved in DNA replication, maintenance or structural organization that were predicted to be mitochondrial or plastidial according to the Predotar and TargetP programs (CITATION; CITATION). This group of proteins was selected for experimental studies. Eleven transcription factors that have been predicted, but as yet not experimentally confirmed, to be located in mitochondria as well as in the nucleus were also tested (CITATION) (Table S1d,f). A number of approaches were used to predict dual-targeted proteins in Arabidopsis. The total number of proteins predicted by each approach to be dual-targeted and the number of experimentally verified dual-targeted proteins is indicated for each approach. The enrichment of dual-targeting proteins in each list was determined compared to groups of randomly selected mitochondrial and chloroplasts proteins as outlined in Experimental procedures. The targeting ability of the number of proteins tested from each group and the number of dual-targeted proteins from each group after this study are also shown. The totals represent the non-redundant numbers tested due to overlap between groups. aThis group includes three alternative NAD(P)H dehydrogenases that we have shown to be dual-targeted to mitochondria and peroxisomes (CITATION). Taken together, all computational approaches produced a non-redundant list of 905 proteins, 19 of which have previously been reported to be dual-targeted. In order to experimentally test the predicted dual targeting, we generated GFP reporter constructs for 41 of these proteins. The Predator list of 803 was too long to test systematically, so we chose five proteins from the top 20 and 10 more throughout the list, allowing assessment of the rank order (Supplementary Table 1A). For the ‘Mass spec’ list of 97 proteins that have been determined to be located in mitochondria and plastids (Table 1, Supplementary Table 1B), we tested 10 of these proteins, and for the other lists we tested more than 50% of the proteins. In the case of the Predator and ‘Mass spec’ lists, the proteins were chosen at random within the parameters outlined above. Mitochondrial and plastid targeting were tested using C-terminal tagging with GFP, and peroxisomal targeting was studied using N-terminal tagging. GFP was fused to the full or partial sequence of candidate proteins, and fluorescence was monitored following biolistic transformation of Arabidopsis cell cultures with these constructs. This approach allowed a relatively large number of samples to be tested, as each test only requires 2 ml of culture cells on a filter support on an MS agar plate. When investigating dual targeting to mitochondria and plastids, Arabidopsis seedlings and onion epidermal cells were transformed in addition to cell cultures. To define the subcellular localization of GFP fluorescence with certainty, we generated RFP control constructs driving expression of mitochondrial-, plastid- or peroxisomal-targeted RFP (CITATION; CITATION). For each protein to be tested, GFP constructs were co-transformed with the appropriate RFP control constructs. This avoided using stains such as Mitotracker to define organelles and provided a positive control for the success of transformation and protein uptake into the appropriate organelle. The subcellular localizations of all proteins tested are shown in Figures 1, 2, 3 and 5 and Figures S1 and S2. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To experimentally define proteins that were targeted to mitochondria and peroxisomes, N- and C-terminal GFP fusions were constructed and targeting was studied for three proteins (Table S1c). When GFP was placed at the C-terminus of a carrier protein (At3g55640), malonyl CoA decarboxylase (At4g04320) or alanine/glyoxylate aminotransferase (At4g39660), a fluorescence pattern that was identical to that obtained with mitochondrial RFP was observed (Figure 1, images 1a–1c, 3a–3c and 5a–5c). However, when GFP was placed at the N-terminus, a pattern that overlapped with peroxisomal RFP was obtained (data not shown). To confirm that the peroxisomal targeting was due to the predicted peroxisomal-targeting signal type 1 (PTS1) at the C-terminus of the proteins, the last 10 amino acids of each of the three proteins were fused to the C-terminus of GFP (Figure 1, images 2d–2f, 4d–4f and 6d–f). Peroxisomal GFP fluorescence was again observed. Thus dual targeting was detected for the three proteins tested from the group of putative peroxisomal and mitochondrial proteins, but this depended on the nature of the GFP construct. When testing the targeting properties of the seven proteins that may function in DNA maintenance, replication or transcription, we detected dual targeting to mitochondria and chloroplasts for three proteins, a topoisomerase I TopI-like protein (At4g31210, AtTopI), a protein with similarity to the human mitochondrial DNA helicase Twinkle (At1g30680, AtTwinkle) and a protein related to human RCC1 and Arabidopsis Uvr8 (At5g08710; RFP tagging was used for this gene for cloning reasons) (Figure 2, image series 3, 4 and 5). For AtTopI, as for the dual-targeted DNA polymerase Polγ1 (CITATION), which we used as a control (Figure S2, image series 1), the intensity of fluorescence from mitochondria and plastids was equal in most transformed suspension cells. For AtTwinkle, the plastid fluorescence was much stronger than mitochondrial fluorescence in suspension cells and onion cells, but the intensity of fluorescence from mitochondria was equal to that from plastids in Arabidopsis seedlings (Figure 2, images series 3). The different intensities of GFP fluorescence in the two organelles were not restricted to this group of proteins. When we tested the targeting of calcium-sensing receptor (CaS, At5g23060), a phosphoprotein that has been shown to be located in thylakoid membranes (CITATION) but is potentially dual-targeted according to Predotar and organelle proteome overlap (Table S1), dual targeting was observed with onion epidermal cells and with Arabidopsis seedlings, but not with suspension cell cultures (Figure 2, image series 6). We previously observed a similar tissue-specific variation of GFP fluorescence for dual-targeted type II NAD(P)H dehydrogenases (Figure S2, image series 2) (CITATION). Thus the ability to detect dual targeting depended on the nature of the tissue. The above findings prompted us to analyse the targeting ability of DNA polymerase γ2 (Polγ2), which has been previously reported as a dual-targeted protein (CITATION). CITATION detected targeting exclusively to plastids if translation was initiated at the first in-frame AUG codon. When using a construct that included the annotated 5′ UTR, dual targeting was observed, which was proposed to be due to translation starting at a CUG codon seven amino acids upstream of the AUG (CITATION). The authors proposed that the targeting of Polγ2 is regulated by alternative translation initiation. In contrast, we observed that, when translation started at the first in-frame AUG, GFP was targeted to both mitochondria and plastids, even though mitochondrial fluorescence was much weaker than plastid fluorescence in suspension cells (Figure 3a, image series 1 and 2). Mitochondrial GFP fluorescence was detected in onion cells and Arabidopsis seedlings (Figure 3b, image series 4), and exclusive mitochondrial localization was occasionally observed in Arabidopsis seedlings (Figure 3b, image 4c). Addition of seven amino acids was performed as described by CITATION, resulting in targeting to both organelles with equal intensity of fluorescence in Arabidopsis cell suspensions and onion cells (Figure 3a,b), but only to mitochondria in Arabidopsis seedlings (Figure 3b, image 5b). To further study the import of Polγ2 into mitochondria and plastids, we performed in vitro import assays on the DNA polymerase protein starting with the standard AUG codon. Although such large proteins are usually difficult to study with in vitro import assays, we readily detected the import of this protein into mitochondria isolated from Arabidopsis seedlings (Figure 4a, left panel). Import was abolished by addition of valinomycin to the import assay, indicating that it was dependent on the membrane potential, as expected for a protein translocated into the mitochondrial matrix. No import of the precursor of the small subunit of 1,5-ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco SSU) into isolated mitochondria was observed (Figure 4b, right panel), indicating that the import of Polγ2 observed was not due to plastid contamination or non-specific import of chloroplast proteins into isolated mitochondria, as previously reported for isolated pea mitochondria (CITATION), but not for isolated Arabidopsis mitochondria as used in this study (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] We next analysed the kinetics of import into mitochondria isolated from suspension cell cultures and Arabidopsis seedlings used in the above import assays (Figure 3b). After 10 min, when the import rate was still relatively linear, the import of alternative oxidase (AOX) was almost twofold higher into mitochondria isolated from seedlings compared to cultured cells, and a large difference persisted even after 20 min. For import of Polγ2, a difference of 40% at 20 min was also observed between mitochondria isolated from seedlings compared to cultured cells. As equal amounts of mitochondrial protein were used in the above import assays, we analysed the abundance of several components of the mitochondrial import apparatus; a representative immunoblot from several mitochondrial preparations is shown (Figure 4c). Differences were observed for some components, e.g. TOM20-2 was approximately twice as abundant in mitochondria isolated from cell cultures compared to mitochondria isolated from plant material. The opposite was seen with TOM20-4. Thus isolated mitochondria from different tissues import proteins at different rates, which might be related to differences in the abundance of particular components of the mitochondrial import apparatus. A number of transcription factors have been predicted to be targeted to mitochondria and nuclei in Arabidopsis and rice (CITATION). We tested the targeting of eight of these transcription factors to mitochondria. For three of these, we initially fused full-length cDNAs to the GFP coding sequence. With one exception, this resulted in no GFP fluorescence. A mitochondrial pattern was obtained for the transcription factor APL (altered phloem development, At1g79430), indicating that the protein had mitochondrial-targeting ability (Figure 5a). As GFP fused to the N-terminus of this protein had been shown previously to target to nuclei (CITATION), we concluded that this transcription factor is dual-targeted. For the seven other transcription factors predicted to possess N-terminal mitochondrial transit peptides, we fused GFP to the first 60 amino acids of these proteins. GFP fluorescence was seen mainly in the nucleus and also in the cytosol but never in mitochondria for these constructs (Figure S1). For two of the proteins, AtTLP9 (At3g06380) and AtTLP7 (At1g53320), we cloned full-length cDNAs in order to perform in vitro import assays into isolated Arabidopsis mitochondria. No import was detected (data not shown), indicating that none of the seven transcription factors is targeted to mitochondria.
!~MM~! A Gateway® cloning cassette was constructed (Figure S3) to allow recombination cloning of cDNA clones using Gateway® cloning techniques according to the manufacturer’s instructions (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com/). This strategy was chosen for all but nine genes (see Table S2). For those nine genes, reporter gene constructs were produced by replacing the AOX sequence in the targeting control vectors described below with the cDNA sequence of the gene to be tested. The Arabidopsis gene locus and the primers used for each constructs are listed in Table S2. Five GFP or RFP fusions were produced as controls for subcellular localization. The alternative oxidase (AOX) targeting signal of 42 amino acids and the full-length cDNA of the small subunit of 1,5-ribulose bisphosphate carboylase/oxygenase (Rubisco SSU) were fused to GFP and RFP as mitochondrial and chloroplast controls, respectively (CITATION). The peroxisomal-targeting control contained the PTS-1 targeting signal of pumpkin (Cucurbita sp.) malate synthase fused to the C-terminus of RFP (CITATION; CITATION). Biolistic transformations of GFP and RFP constructs were performed on Arabidopsis cell culture, seedlings and onion epidermal cells as previously reported (CITATION; CITATION). The GFP and RFP plasmids (5 μg each) were co-precipitated onto gold particles and transformed using the biolistic PDS-1000/He system (Bio-Rad, http://www.bio-rad.com/). Particles were bombarded onto either 2 ml of Arabidopsis cell suspension resting on filter paper on osmoticum plates, 7- to 14-day-old Arabidopsis seedlings placed on filter paper on standard MS plates, or onion cell epidermal peels placed on filter paper on standard MS plates. After bombardment, all Arabidopsis cell suspension, seedlings and onion cells were placed in the dark at 22°C for 24–48 h before visualization of GFP/RFP. Localization of transient GFP and RFP expression was performed using an Olympus BX61 fluorescence microscope (http://www.olympusmicro.com) with excitation wavelengths of 460/480 nm (GFP) and 535/555 nm (RFP), and emission wavelengths of 495–540 nm (GFP) and 570–625 nm (RFP). Subsequent images were captured using Cell® imaging software as previously described (CITATION; CITATION). Dual-targeted proteins were predicted in a number of different ways. The Predator prediction program can be used in ‘animal’ or ‘plant’ mode (CITATION). The entire predicted Arabidopsis proteome was analysed twice to produce a mitochondrial-targeting prediction in the animal mode, and a plastid-targeting prediction in the plant mode. The 803 proteins that passed both screens were ranked using the score for targeting to mitochondria using the animal mode minus the score for mitochondrial targeting in the plant mode (Table S1a). To predict proteins that are dual-targeted between mitochondria and peroxisomes, the list of predicted peroxisomal proteins from Araperox (CITATION) was compared to known mitochondrial proteins using the SUBA database (CITATION) (Table S1b,c). The subcellular localizations of the overlapping list of proteins were predicted using 10 predictors of subcellular localization: Target P (Emanuelsson et al., 2000, 2007), Predotar (CITATION), MitoprotII (CITATION), iPSORT (CITATION), Subloc (CITATION), Mitopred (CITATION), Wolfpsort (CITATION), Multiloc (CITATION), Loctree (CITATION) and PeroxP (CITATION). Proteins were selected as candidates if either a mitochondrial location had already been published or a protein showed strong mitochondrial prediction by at least five predictors. Nuclear loci encoding proteins potentially involved in mitochondrial DNA maintenance replication and transcription (Table S1e) were identified from computational screens of the Arabidopsis genome using publicly available databases at NCBI (National Centre for Biotechnology Information), TAIR (The Arabidopsis Information Resource) and AMPDB (Arabidopsis Mitochondrial Protein Database) (CITATION). These screens were particularly directed at identifying homologues of established fungal and animal mitochondrial DNA-associated proteins (BLAST screens at NCBI), mitochondrial homologues of proteins reported to associate with the plastid genome (BLAST), and genes co-expressed with Arabidopsis γ-type DNA polymerases and predicted to be involved in DNA-related processes [ATTED-II (CITATION) and Expression Angler (CITATION)]. The identified loci were screened for previously uncharacterized putative mitochondrial and plastidial gene products using SUBA (CITATION). Additionally, 11 transcription factors previously predicted to be targeted to mitochondria and the nucleus (CITATION) were tested for mitochondrial-targeting ability (Table S1d). We suspected that the number of dual-targeted proteins found in the list produced by the Predotar method (15 from 803 proteins) was greater than expected by chance. The very low proportion of known dual-targeted proteins among proteins predicted to be either mitochondrial or plastidial (31 in 4320) prevents standard statistical techniques being used to demonstrate this, so empirical P-values were calculated by taking 10 000 random sets of 803 proteins from the set of 4320 proteins predicted to be mitochondrial or plastidial and identifying the number of known dual-targeted proteins in each of these. The P-values were taken as the number of random sets with at least 15 dual-targeted proteins divided by 10 000. Three sets of proteins contained 15 or more dual-targeted proteins, so there is an enrichment of dual-targeted proteins in the set produced by the Predotar method with a P-value = 0.0003. Similarly, empirical P-values were calculated to demonstrate the enrichment of dual-targeted proteins in the ‘Mass spec’ set. In this case, 10 000 random sets of 97 proteins were selected from the 2913 proteins with experimental evidence for localization in the mitochondria or plastids according to the SUBA database (http://www.plantenergy.uwa.edu.au/applications/suba2/). The P-value was taken as the number of random sets with at least three dual-targeted proteins divided by 10 000 (Table 1). In vitro import of proteins into isolated mitochondria and Western blot analysis ere performed as previously described (CITATION). To generate the TOM40 antibody, a recombinant protein containing the first 200 amino acids from the N-terminus of TOM40-1 (At3g20000) fused to an N-terminal 6× His affinity purification tag was expressed in Escherichia coli strain BL21(DE3). The recombinant protein was purified by denaturing Immobilized metal affinity chromatography (IMAC), using the Bio-Rad Profinia™ protein purification system. The resultant eluate was separated by 12% v/v SDS–PAGE, and the recombinant protein was extracted using a Bio-Rad Model 422 electro-eluter. Buffer exchange was performed using an Amicon Ultracel-5 k centrifugal filter device (http://www.millipore.com) such that the antigen was re-suspended in PBS solution, recovering a total of 3 mg of protein for inoculation. Four separate doses were administered to a rabbit at regular intervals over a 3-month period using standard protocols and Freud’s complete adjuvant (CITATION).
