!~ABS~! Indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) and 2,4-dichlorophenoxybutyric acid (2,4-DB) are metabolised by peroxisomal β-oxidation to active auxins that inhibit root growth. We screened Arabidopsis mutants for resistance to IBA and 2,4-DB and identified two new 2,4-DB resistant mutants. The mutant genes encode a putative oxidoreductase (SDRa) and a putative acyl-activating enzyme (AAE18). Both proteins are localised to peroxisomes. SDRa is coexpressed with core β-oxidation genes, but germination, seedling growth and the fatty acid profile of sdra seedlings are indistinguishable from wild type. The sdra mutant is also resistant to IBA, but aae18 is not. AAE18 is the first example of a gene required for response to 2,4-DB but not IBA. The closest relative of AAE18 is AAE17. AAE17 is predicted to be peroxisomal, but an aae17 aae18 double mutant responded similarly to aae18 for all assays. We propose that AAE18 is capable of activating 2,4-DB but IBA activating enzymes remain to be discovered. We present an updated model for peroxisomal pro-auxin metabolism in Arabidopsis that includes SDRa and AAE18.
!~RES~! We selected genes encoding predicted peroxisomal proteins with similarity to known β-oxidation proteins for reverse genetic analysis. These included uncharacterised acyl-activating enzymes, hydratases, dehydrogenases/oxidoreductases and thiolases (Table 1). Homozygous mutants were isolated from one EMS (kat2-2) and 37 T-DNA lines representing 20 genes. Of the T-DNA lines, RT-PCR confirmed 23 lines from 17 genes to be lacking full-length transcripts (Table 1; Supplementary Figure 1). The transcript knockout lines so obtained are listed in Table 1 by their allelic designations. kat2-2 is a new Col-0 EMS mutant for this gene originally identified in a screen for new sucrose dependent mutants (Eastmond CITATION). We backcrossed kat2-2 twice and sequencing revealed the lesion to be S140F (TCT → TTT), a change that presumably affects protein topology near the catalytic Cys138 residue (see Sundaramoorthy et al. CITATION). kat2-1 is in Ws background (Germain et al. CITATION). We screened mutants listed in Table 1 for resistance to pro-auxins 2,4-DB and IBA. Screening of homozygous lines on 1 μM 2,4-DB yielded two new 2,4-DB resistant mutants, sdra and aae18. (Fig. 1). SDRa is a short chain dehydrogenase/reductase family protein and AAE18 an acyl-activating enzyme (acyl-CoA synthetase) family protein. When screened on 10 μM IBA, the two sdra alleles were resistant to IBA, but all three aae18 alleles were sensitive (Fig. 1). No further new IBA resistant mutants were revealed amongst the lines listed in Table 1. We also characterized chy1-4, a new mutant allele of CHY1. It is similar to other characterised strong alleles of CHY1 which are highly resistant to pro-auxins (Lange et al. CITATION; Zolman et al. CITATION, CITATION). Similarly, we obtained ibr3-9 as a characterised, partially resistant control (see Zolman et al. CITATION). Both of the sdra alleles and two of the aae18 alleles were subsequently characterised in detail, for auxin response and other characteristics. [[FIGURE]]  The new 2,4-DB resistant lines were characterised for dose responses to 2,4-DB. On increasing concentrations of 2,4-DB, aae18 and sdra appeared to be as resistant for root elongation as chy1 up to 1 μM 2,4-DB, but were less resistant above this concentration (Fig. 2a). aae18-1, aae18-2 and sdra-1 were more resistant to 2,4-DB than ibr3-9. The sdra-2 mutant is in Ler background and shows similar trends but both the Ler wild-type and sdra-2 are apparently more sensitive to 2,4-DB than Col-0 and sdra-1 and are thus presented separately (Fig. 2b). Both kat2-1 and kat2-2 appear to be as resistant as chy1-4 to 2,4-DB (Fig. 2c). The kat2 alleles were more resistant to higher than lower concentrations of IBA and 2,4-DB (Fig. 2c, f). This was previously noted by Lange et al. (CITATION) for kat2 grown on 2,4-DB, but there is no obvious explanation for this phenomenon. Neither of the kat2 alleles germinated on 4 μM 2,4-DB. Lethality of kat2-1 at high concentrations of 2,4-DB was not previously reported (Lange et al. CITATION). [[FIGURE]]  When grown on IBA, chy1-4, ibr3-9, kat2-1 and kat2-2 all displayed resistance consistent with that reported in previous studies (Fig. 1). Compared to growth on media lacking hormone, root elongation of all lines (mutant and wild type) was markedly inhibited by 5 μM IBA (Fig. 2d–f). This response is at variance with previous reports for ibr3 and chy1 where root growth inhibition was less severe in response to 5 μM IBA (Zolman et al. CITATION). Similarly, the greater inhibition of root elongation at 5 μM compared to 10 μM IBA for the stronger mutants (chy1-4 and kat2-2) was not reported earlier (c.f. Zolman et al. CITATION, CITATION). These two discrepancies are most likely due to different media and growth conditions of the studies. In accordance with Zolman et al. (CITATION), ibr3-9 was less severe in its response to IBA than chy1-4 (Fig. 2d). kat2 mutants were at least as resistant as chy1-4 (Fig. 2f). The sdra-1 mutant appeared to be almost as resistant to IBA as chy1-4 at all concentrations tested and was more resistant than ibr3-9 to IBA (Fig. 2d). sdra-2 displayed a similar trend of high resistance with its difference to sdra-1 most likely attributable to the ecotype differences of the alleles (Fig. 2e). Interestingly, all three aae18 alleles behaved like wild type in their IBA response (Figs. 1, 2d; aae18-3 not shown). sdra, aae18, kat2, chy1 and ibr3 respond normally to the active auxins IAA, 2,4-D and NAA (Figs. 1, 3) indicating there is no general block to auxin signaling. When grown on 100 nM IAA, 50 nM 2,4-D or 100 nM NAA, all genotypes showed inhibition of root length comparable to their respective wild types. Ws (and mutants in Ws background) had a low level of natural resistance to 2,4-D and 2,4-DB compared to Col-0 and Ler (Figs. 1, 3). The resistance of Ws to low concentration of 2,4-DB has been previously reported (Lange et al. CITATION). Interestingly though, both kat2-1 (Ws) and kat2-2 (Col-0) appeared to be somewhat resistant to 2,4-D (Fig. 3). [[FIGURE]]  To further characterise their auxin response, all 2,4-DB-resistant mutants were assessed for their capacity to produce lateral roots. Seeds were germinated and grown for 3 days on medium containing 1% (w/v) sucrose, then plants were transferred to medium containing hormones for 2 days. With the exception of kat2, all mutants produced numbers of lateral roots comparable to their wild types when grown on media without added hormone. Both kat2 mutants produced less lateral roots under these conditions than their wild types (Fig. 4). This was also the case for kat2 grown for differing durations on sucrose up to 8 days in total (data not shown). [[FIGURE]]  IBA stimulated lateral root formation considerably in wild type controls as well as in aae18. In contrast, sdra-1, sdra-2, kat2-1, kat2-2, chy1-4 and ibr3-9 all produced fewer lateral roots on IBA than their respective wild types (Fig. 4). Marked increases in the number of lateral roots were observed in all cases when the seedlings were transferred to media supplemented with 80 nM NAA, indicating no general block to lateral rooting capacity. GFP fusions with SDRa and AAE18 were constructed by inserting GFP in frame into the coding sequence close to the C-terminus. By this method SDRa-GFP and AAE18-GFP both localised to peroxisomes when compared to a peroxisomal RFP-SRL marker (Fig. 5). SDRa possesses a C-terminal-SRL and AAE18 a C-terminal-SRI. These are both canonical plant PTS1 signal peptides (Reumann et al. CITATION), consistent with the observation of peroxisomal GFP. SDRa has moreover been identified in the proteome of leaf peroxisomes (Reumann et al. CITATION). [[FIGURE]]  To examine whether any of the lines were also affected in triacylglycerol (TAG) metabolism, we grew seedlings in the dark on media with or without added sucrose. sdra and aae18 alleles were able to etiolate normally in the absence of sucrose, indicating that TAG metabolism was not affected sufficiently to disrupt seedling germination and growth (Fig. 6a). As expected (Germain et al. CITATION), neither of the kat2 alleles emerged from seed coats during this experiment, and chy1-4 grew poorly without sucrose, as reported previously for CHY1 mutants (Zolman et al. CITATION, CITATION). Seedling establishment and early development of sdra and aae18 alleles in the light without exogenously supplied sucrose appeared normal (data not shown). [[FIGURE]]  Although it is expressed during early seedling establishment (Supplementary Figure 1), further information about expression of the AAE18 gene is lacking because it is not represented on the Affymetrix genechip ATH1. However, much information about expression of SDRa is available. SDRa expression was examined using publicly available microarray data (Schmid et al. CITATION). Using Genevestigator V3 (Zimmermann et al. CITATION), SDRa is highly expressed throughout the plant life cycle, but is more highly expressed in germinated seed. During development, similar expression patterns are observed in SDRa, ECH1a, ECH1b, MFP2, ACX2, IBR3, ACX3, ACX4, KAT2 and NQR (not shown). In line with the apparent co-regulation with β-oxidation genes, SDRa also clusters with NQR and β-oxidation genes when analysed using ATTED (Obayashi et al. CITATION). Many β-oxidation genes are in the top 300 genes coexpressed with SDRa including NQR (position 1), MFP2 (5), IBR3 (79) and AIM1 (105). Analysis of transcript abundance during the diurnal cycle (Smith et al. CITATION) also indicates that in mature leaf tissue, SDRa is co-regulated with β-oxidation genes (Supplemental Figure 2). Despite the apparent link between SDRa and β-oxidation genes, no evidence was obtained to show that mobilisation of TAG for seedling growth was impaired in sdra-1 or sdra-2 (Fig. 6a). Nevertheless, the possibility that β-oxidation of specific fatty acids could be impaired was investigated. Total fatty acids were isolated for GC-MS analysis from two day old seedlings, a stage when TAG breakdown is taking place most rapidly (Germain et al. CITATION). The amounts of numerous medium and long chain fatty acids were about the same in Col-0 and sdra-1, including the major TAG fatty acids linoleic acid (C18:2) and eicosenoic acid (C20:1) (Fig. 6b). In contrast kat2-1 contained elevated levels of these fatty acids due to impaired TAG breakdown. These features indicate that fatty acid metabolism in sdra-1 is indistinguishable from wild type, consistent with the hypothesis that SDRa participates preferentially in auxin synthesis. AAE18 is a member of a large family of acyl-activating enzymes and redundancy of peroxisomal isoform functions has already been demonstrated in the family, with the closely related LACS6 and LACS7 involved in activating TAG-derived fatty acids, but not auxins (Fulda et al. CITATION). For this reason we generated a double mutant of AAE18 and AAE17 to examine auxin responses. AAE17 also has a PTS1 (C-terminal SKL). It is the closest relative of AAE18 in the Arabidopsis genome and a good candidate for double mutant analysis. The aae17-1 aae18-1 double mutant was no more resistant to 2,4-DB than aae18-1 (Fig. 7a), normally sensitive to IBA (Fig. 7b) and mature auxins (Fig. 7c), produced normal numbers of lateral roots when stimulated by IBA and NAA (Fig 7d) and was not dependent on sucrose for etiolation (Fig. 7e). [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! SALK (Alonso et al. CITATION), FLAG (Samson et al. CITATION), GABI-Kat (Rosso et al. CITATION), and CSHL (Sundaresan et al. CITATION) T-DNA lines were obtained from stock centres and screened to homozygosity. When available, multiple alleles per gene were ordered. Primer design utilised the T-DNA Express primer design server (http://signal.salk.edu/tdnaprimers.2.html). RT-PCR primers were designed to bound the insertion sites and used to screen each line for the absence of full-length transcript as an indicator that they were transcript knockouts (Table 1). For seed germination and growth assays, half strength MS media (Sigma) was buffered with 0.07% MES, solidified with 0.8% agar and supplemented with 1% sucrose and hormones as indicated. Seed were imbibed on plates at 4°C for 48 h prior to assays. All in vitro assays were conducted at 25°C under continuous white light (approx 120 μE). All knockout lines were initially screened for root elongation on 1 μM 2,4-DB (as an indicator of resistance). They were also screened for defects in etiolation in the absence of sucrose (as described below).[[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] Knockout lines that displayed resistance to 2,4-DB were further characterised by dose responses to 2,4-DB and IBA. They were grown for 6 days on media supplemented with 1% sucrose and 0, 0.5, 1, 2 or 4 μM 2,4-DB or with 0, 5, 10 or 20 μM IBA. In addition, response to active auxins was assayed using media containing 100 nM NAA, 50 nM 2,4-D or 100 nM IAA. IAA and IBA containing plates as well as controls for those experiments were incubated under yellow filters (Lee filter 101) to reduce the photochemical degradation of indole containing compounds (Stasinopoulos and Hangarter CITATION). Lateral root assays were conducted by growing seedlings for 3 days on media containing 0.5 × MS and 1% sucrose. Seedlings were then transferred to similar media supplemented either with no hormone, 5 μM IBA or 80 nM NAA and the number of lateral roots was counted 2 and 3 days after transfer. Etiolation was assessed by sowing seeds to 0.5 × MS media containing either 1% or 0% sucrose, exposing them to light for 6 h, then transferring to the dark. Hypocotyl lengths were measured after 4 days dark growth. Digital photographs were taken of assay plates and Image J (Research Services Branch, NIH) was used to measure root and hypocotyl lengths. All root and hypocotyl measurement experiments were conducted at least twice and means were calculated on least 15 seedlings. Single experiments are depicted in the results. GFP fusions of SDRa and AAE18 were constructed according to a modification of the fluorescent tagging of full-length proteins (FTFLP) method of Tian et al. (CITATION). FTFLP introduces GFP into genomic clones (including native promoters and terminators) in a position corresponding to approximately 10 amino acids from the C-terminus and enables analysis of spatial and temporal localisation of proteins during plant development. The position close to the C terminus largely avoids structural and functional protein domains and preserves both N- and C- terminal targeting sequences and membrane anchoring signals in full-length proteins (Tian et al. CITATION). We adapted the method for use in transient expression assays. Thus, GFP was inserted within a stretch of hydrophilic residues close to the C-terminus but this was done using coding sequence alone and driven by 35S promoter. Enhanced GFP (eGFP) was amplified including adapters as described by Tian et al. (CITATION). The N-terminal portions of SDR and AAE18 were amplified from total cDNA using appropriate 25-mer primers (primers P1 and P2). Oligos P3 and P4, corresponding to the C-terminal 10 amino acids (AAE18) and 13 amino acids (SDRa) plus the stop codon of the protein (i.e. 33–42 nucleotides), were synthesised to comprise a template for direct inclusion in a second round of PCR. Primers P1 and P4 included adapters to enable amplification by universal primers. Primers P2 and P3 had adapters that overlapped with those bounding the GFP fragment. Three-template PCR (TT-PCR) thus included three overlapping templates (the P1–P2 bound fragment, GFP and P3–P4 oligo) and used universal primers with attB cloning sequences. Universal primers and adapters are as described in Tian et al. (CITATION). TT-PCR products were cloned into Gateway vector pDONR207 and sequenced to check PCR accuracy. The GFP constructs were then introduced into a pGREEN (Hellens et al. CITATION) vector modified for Gateway. We used pGREEN0179 containing CAMV 2x35S promoter and CAMV terminator with the Gateway A cassette inserted between them in the SmaI site of the pGREEN multiple cloning site. For colocalisation studies pGREEN0049-RFP-SRL (Pracharoenwattana et al. CITATION) was used as a peroxisomal marker. Plasmids were precipitated onto 1 μm gold particles and biolistically transformed into onion epidermal peel as described in Thirkettle-Watts et al. (CITATION). Fluorescence images were obtained using Olympus BX61 epifluorescence microscope with GFP (U-MGFPHQ) and RFP filters (U-MRFPHQ) and manipulated with CellR software. Plant tissue (approx. 100 mg) was snap-frozen in liquid nitrogen, ground into a fine powder and extracted with 400 μl isopropyl alcohol (containing 0.01% BHT (2,6-di-tert-butyl-4-methylphenol) as an antioxidant) at 75°C for 15 min. Fifty micrograms of C19:0 fatty acid was added as an internal standard to each sample before the extraction. After cooling down to room temperature 600 μl of n-hexane was added to the tube and the mixture sonicated for 5 min. The isopropyl alcohol-hexane mixture was separated from the cell debris and 500 μl was dried under vacuum. The fatty acids in the extract were converted to their methyl esters by heating at 80°C for 2 h in 300 μl of methanol with 2.0% H2SO4 (v/v). After cooling to room temperature and mixing with 300 μl of 0.9% NaCl, fatty acid methyl esters were extracted with 300 μl of n-hexane for GC/MS analysis. GC–MS analysis utilised an Agilent 6890GC coupled with 5795 mass selective detector. The temperature program was: initial temperature 1 min at 70°C; temperature was then ramped to 76°C at 1°C/min, then ramped to 325°C at 6°C/min and held at 325°C for 10 min. The GC capillary column used for analysis was Varian factor 4 (VF-5 ms, 30 M × 0.25 mm ID and 0.25 μm film). Fatty acid peak areas were normalized to that of the internal standard and the weight of starting tissue to yield mg/g fresh weight for each fatty acid.
