!~ABS~!   Arabidopsis contains only one functional dihydroflavonol 4‐reductase (DFR) gene, but several DFR‐like genes encoding proteins with the conserved NAD(P)H binding domain. At4g35420, named DRL1 (Dihydroflavonol 4‐reductase‐like1), is a closely related homolog of the rice anther‐specific gene OsDFR2 reported previously.  Two T‐DNA mutants (drl1‐1 and drl1‐2) were found to have impaired pollen formation and seed production. Histological analysis revealed defective microspore development after tetrad release in both mutants. Microspore walls were found to rupture, releasing the protoplasts which eventually degenerated. The DRL1 promoter is anther‐specific in closed flower buds. Promoter‐GUS analysis in transgenic Arabidopsis revealed expression in tapetum, tetrads, and developing microspores, but not in mature anthers. Enhanced yellow fluorescent protein (EYFP)‐localization analysis demonstrated that DRL1 is a soluble cytosolic protein that may also be localized in the nucleus.  Restoration of male fertility and seed formation was only achieved by a native promoter‐DRL1 construct, but not by a 35S‐DRL1 construct, demonstrating the importance of spatial and temporal specificities of DRL1 expression.  DRL1 may be involved in a novel metabolic pathway essential for pollen wall development. DRL1 homologs were identified as anther‐ and floral‐specific expressed sequence tags from different species, suggesting that DRL1 may have a conserved functional role in male fertility in flowering plants. 
!~RES~!  DRL1 (At4g35420) contains six exons and five introns, and an open reading frame of 981 bp encoding a protein with 326 amino acids. We have obtained two independent T‐DNA insertion mutants for DRL1. In drl1‐1, the insertion occurred at 127 bp upstream of the predicted stop codon, while in drl1‐2 the insertion was found within intron 3 (Fig. 1a). The mutants were indistinguishable from wild type in the heterozygous state, and hence the mutation alleles are both recessive. On the other hand, homozygous lines for the two insertion mutants showed different degrees of male sterility. Flowers of drl1‐1 and drl1‐2 homozygous plants are of normal size and shape, and filaments of stamens elongate as in the wild type (data not shown). However, no pollen grains were found on the surfaces of anthers and stigma in the mutant flowers (data not shown). Most mature anthers of drl1‐1 homozygous plants were empty, although some had a little pollen, which stained purple with Alexander's stain (Fig. 1b), indicating that they are viable. However, the drl1‐1 pollen appeared irregular in shape and less intact compared with the wild‐type pollen. Consequently, the drl1‐1 plants displayed a partial fertility phenotype with small number of seeded siliques (Fig. 1c). On the other hand, mature anthers of drl1‐2 homozygous plants were completely devoid of pollen (Fig. 1b) and the mutant plants showed undeveloped siliques without seed formation (Fig. 1c). Hence, the drl1‐2 homozygous mutants are completely sterile and this mutation allele could only be propagated in the heterozygous state. Back‐crossing of the drl1‐2 mutant stigmas with wild‐type pollen grains resulted in normal seed fertility (Fig. 1d), indicating that the female reproductive tissues were functional in the homozygous plants. Anther dehiscence was normal in both mutant alleles (data not shown), suggesting that defects in pollen development were the major cause of male sterility.  [[FIGURE]] Flowers of different stages from wild‐type and mutant plants were fixed, embedded, and sectioned for histological examination of reproductive development. In wild‐type anthers, meiotic division proceeded normally with the formation of microspore tetrads (Fig. 2a). The microspores then started to expand and separated from one another with a distinct cell wall (Fig. 2b). Afterwards, they continued to increase in size and the cell walls thickened (Fig. 2c). As development progressed, large vacuoles and sculptured exine walls were readily observed in the microspores (Fig. 2d). Microgametogenesis then began as prominent starch granules accumulated in the microspore cytoplasm (Fig. 2e). In the mature pollen grains during the time of dehiscence, the generative cell was embedded within the tube cell and the tapetum was completely degenerated (Fig. 2f).  [[FIGURE]] In the drl1‐2 homozygous mutants, the initial anther development was normal up to the completion of meiosis with the formation of microspore tetrads (Fig. 3a). Although the microspores rounded up and separated from one another, they remained small (Fig. 3b). Moreover, a distinct sculptured cell wall was absent in these microspores. As development progressed, the walls began to rupture, releasing the protoplasts into the anther locules (Fig. 3c). The protoplasts then increased in size with the accumulation of starch granules (Fig. 3d) and gradually occupied the entire space of the anther locules (Fig. 3e). As the flowers matured, the protoplasts degenerated rapidly, leaving remnants of cytoplasm and starch granules (Fig. 3f). Similar to the wild type, the mutant tapetum remained intact during the course of anther development and it became degenerated in the mature anthers. Pollen development in the drl1‐1 mutant was essentially the same as it was observed in the drl1‐2 mutant. However, some drl1‐1 mature anther locules were found to contain a few pollen grains (not shown), which apparently resulted in the partial fertility phenotype in the mutant plants (Fig. 1c). It is important to note that embryo sac sections from both mutant flowers appeared normal (photo not shown), further confirming that the female reproductive functions were not affected by the drl1 mutations.  [[FIGURE]] To better understand the physiological function of DRL1 in Arabidopsis, RT‐PCR experiments were conducted with RNA samples prepared from different tissues in wild‐type plants. Transcripts of DRL1 were not detected in 2‐wk‐old seedlings, cauline leaves, or inflorescence stalk, but only in a mixture of young and mature flowers (Fig. 4), indicating that the gene expression is specific in reproductive tissues. A null mutation in DRL1 was expected in the drl1‐2 mutant, as the T‐DNA insertion occurred in the middle of the gene (Fig. 1a). On the other hand, the reduced fertility phenotype of drl1‐1 mutant suggested that DRL1 may be partially functional in the plant. RACE experiments were performed to map the 3′‐end of the drl1‐1 transcript, which was found to be polyadenylated and chimeric, containing the endogenous DRL1 sequence up to the insertion site, followed by sequence derived from the left border of the T‐DNA (data not shown). The wild‐type DRL1 encodes a protein of 326 amino acids in length. The predicted DRL1‐1 mutant protein would be truncated at the 284th amino acid with a C‐terminal extension of 15 amino acids derived from the T‐DNA sequence. The truncation (44 amino acids) might have reduced the stability and enzyme activity of the mutant protein.  [[FIGURE]] Spatial and temporal expression of DRL1 was examined in transgenic plants carrying the GUS reporter gene driven by a 2.0 kb upstream region of the putative DRL1 promoter. We have analyzed > 10 independent lines and the expression patterns were found to be consistent. X‐gluc staining of whole plants from the transgenic lines demonstrated that GUS activities were not present in vegetative tissues (data not shown). Consistent with the RT‐PCR results, GUS activities were detected only in floral tissues but were restricted to anthers. Anther staining was first visualized in c. 0.45 mm buds (at the time of pollen meiosis) and was intensified as the buds increased in size (Fig. 5a). GUS expression in anthers gradually declined as the flowers were maturing, and no anther staining was detected in fully open flowers. Isolated anthers from young buds revealed GUS activities in the developing microspores and the tapetal region (Fig. 5b,c). Histological investigations of stained anther sections demonstrated that GUS activities were strongly expressed in both tapetum and developing microspores. Staining was first observed at the tetrad stage (Fig. 6a) and became intensified during microspore release (Fig. 6b). GUS activities started to decline as development progressed, while staining could still be detected in the maturing pollen grains and the tapetal cells (Fig. 6c). Subsequently, no staining was found in mature anther and pollen grains (Fig. 6d).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To conclusively define the role of DRL1 in male fertility, two complementation constructs in a plant binary vector were generated and transformed into the completely sterile drl1‐2 mutant. In one construct, the DRL1 coding region was driven by the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. In another construct, the coding region was driven by the 2.0 kb upstream putative promoter (native promoter) sequence. The binary vectors were transformed individually to drl1‐2/+ heterozygous plants using A. tumefaciens. Transformants were selected on hygromycin medium, and homozygous lines (drl1‐2/drl1‐2) were identified by PCR. Restoration of normal pollen development, silique elongation, and seed formation was achieved in all the transgenic homozygous lines carrying the native promoter construct (13 independent lines), but not the 35S promoter construct (37 independent lines) (Fig. 7). These results demonstrated conclusively that the DRL1 is indispensable for male fertility in Arabidopsis. Furthermore, temporal‐ and tissue‐specific expression driven by the native promoter is essential for DRL1 to express its normal physiological functions.  [[FIGURE]] To investigate the cellular localization of DRL1, a translational fusion of DRL1 upstream to EYFP driven by the 35S promoter was generated. The fusion construct was then introduced to onion epidermal cells by particle bombardment. As shown in Fig. 8, fluorescent signals were detected throughout the whole onion cells, including the nucleus. Plasmolysis treatments resulted in fluorescent signals contained in the shrinking cytoplasm. The same localization patterns were observed for an EYFP‐only control construct. Accumulation of EYFP (29 kDa) in the nucleus is expected to occur by passive diffusion (Vom Arnim et al. 1998). However, the DRL1‐EYFP fusion (65 kDa) is slightly larger than the size‐exclusion limit (40–60 kDa) in the nuclear pore complexes (Görlich & Mattaj, 1996), suggesting that DRL1 may also be localized in the nucleus.  [[FIGURE]] DRL1 shows weak sequence identity to other DFR family proteins in Arabidopsis: 39.6% to TT3, 37.1% to BEN1, and 35.3% to BAN1. By contrast, a number of DRL1 homologs from different plants with sequence identity between 63.0 to 74.2% to DRL1 were identified in the DFCI Plant Gene Indices (http://compbio.dfci.harvard.edu/tgi/plant.html) by tblastn searches (data not shown). Interestingly, these sequences were exclusively derived from cDNA libraries of floral tissues, such as anthers, pollen, immature flowers, or inflorescence (DFCI Plant Gene Indices). Phylogenetic analysis showed that DRL1 clustered with the DRL1 homologs instead of the other Arabidopsis DFR‐like proteins (Fig. 9a), suggesting a distinct functional role of DRL1 in plants. DRL1 and the dicot sequences form a separate clade within the group of conserved DRL1 homologs, while the cereal sequences were clustered in another clade. Alignment of the translated proteins of the different full‐length cDNAs with DRL1 revealed the N‐terminal putative NAD(P)H‐binding domain and the high degree of homology throughout their entire sequences (Fig. 9b). The well‐conserved N‐terminal region is believed to be involved in the co‐factor binding site of NAD(P)H‐dependent metabolic enzymes (Lacombe et al., 1997).  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~!  Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. accession Columbia (Col‐0) was used as the wild‐type control in this study. DRL1 T‐DNA insertion lines were obtained from the French National Institute for Agricultural Research (drl1‐1, stock no. Flag_019D03) and the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (drl1‐2, stock no. CS837358). Seeds were germinated in the dark for 3 d at 4°C. All plants were grown on soil and kept under long‐day conditions (16 h light : 8 h dark) at 22°C in growth chambers. PCR genotyping was used to identify homozygous insertion lines. For drl1‐1 mutant, plant‐specific LP primer CL208 (5′‐ATTGGATGAGCTCTTGATTGC‐3′) and RP primer CL209 (5′‐ATCACATGACTCGTTTTTGGG‐3′), and T‐DNA LB primer CL183 (5′‐CGTGTGCCAGGTGCCCACGGAATAGT‐3′) were used. For drl1‐2 mutant, plant‐specific LP primer CL194 (5′‐GAAGAAACTTGCGCACCTATG‐3′) and RP primer CL195 (5′‐CGAGCAGATAGGAATGAAACG‐3′), and T‐DNA LB primer CL184 (5′‐TTCATAACCAATCTCGATACAC‐3′) were used. For homozygous mutants, only LB and RP primers resulted in a PCR product. For wild‐type plants, only the plant‐specific primers resulted in a PCR product. For heterozygous plants, PCR reactions were positive for both combinations of primer sets. PCR amplifications were programmed as follows: pre‐incubation (95°C for 10 min), followed by 30 cycles of denaturation (95°C for 30 s), annealing (55°C for 30 s) and extension (72°C for 1 min), followed by a final extension step at 72°C for 7 min. The precise T‐DNA insertion sites in drl1‐1 and drl1‐2 were determined by sequencing the PCR products.  Anthers were removed from flowers and mounted in a drop of Alexander's (1969) stain under a cover glass to study the abundance of pollen grains. For histological examinations, flower buds of different stages were fixed in 2.5% glutaraldehyde and 1.6% paraformaldehyde buffered with 0.05 m phosphate buffer (pH 6.8) for 24 h at 4°C. After fixation, the flowers were dehydrated using an ethanol series and embedded in Historesin as described previously (Yeung, 1999). Serial sections of thickness 3 µm were sliced using a microtome and stained with periodic acid‐Schiff (PAS) reaction for total carbohydrates, and counterstained with amido black 10B for proteins or toluidine blue O for general histological organization (Yeung, 1984), followed by examination under a Leitz photomicroscope. In order to confirm the nature of the PAS‐positive granules, the starch staining method detailed by Solís et al. (2008) was also used.  Total RNA was extracted from different organs by the Trizol method (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA). RNA samples were DNase‐I‐treated (Invitrogen) and reverse‐transcribed by M‐MLV reverse transcriptase (Promega, Madison, WI, USA). Primers CL362 (5′‐CGC GGA TCCATG GAT CAA GCA AAG GGA AAA G‐3′) and CL363 (5′‐GGA CTA GTTTAT GGA AGA ACA GTA GAT AA‐3′) were used for amplification of DRL1, while primers HEL376 (5′‐GCCCAGAAGTCTTGTTCCAG‐3′) and HEL377 (5′‐TTGGAGATCCACATCTGCTG‐3′) were used for amplification of an actin gene. The 3′‐transcript end of the drl1‐1 allele was mapped by a rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) procedure, as described by the manufacturer (Roche Molecular Biochemicals), followed by DNA sequencing. 3′‐specific cDNA was amplified by PCR using a gene‐specific primer (CL331, 5′‐CCGATGTCCTCGGATTACTG‐3′) upstream of the insertion site and an adapter primer (HEL373, 5′‐CCACGCGTCGACTAGTACTT‐3′). The PCR amplification program was the same as described earlier.  A 2.0 kb region upstream of the DRL1 initiation codon was amplified from wild‐type genomic DNA using the primers CL334 (5′‐CCGGTATAAATGGAATCACACC‐CG‐3′) and CL335 (5′‐GTCAAGTTCCTCTTACAGCAGTAC‐3′). Following sequence confirmation, the PCR fragment was used to construct a DRL1 promoter‐GUS fusion gene in a pCAMBIA1300‐derived binary vector. Wild‐type plants were transformed with the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 harboring the fusion gene construct, using the floral dip method (Clough & Bent, 1998). Transformants were selected on MS plates containing 25 µg ml−1 hygromycin, and T1 seeds were germinated for GUS expression analysis. Different tissues collected from T1 plants were incubated with 5 bromo‐4‐chloro‐3‐indole glucoronide (X‐gluc) in 50 mm phosphate buffer (pH 7.0), 0.5% Triton X‐100, and 0.5 mm ferrocyanide for 12–24 h. GUS staining patterns were recorded using a Leica M125 stereomicroscope (Leica, Milton Keynes, UK) equipped with a Leica DFC500 digital camera. For histological examinations, the stained flowers were fixed and processed as detailed earlier after the X‐gluc staining. The stained sections were examined without an applied cover glass in order to visualize the blue staining product.  The DRL1 coding region was cloned in frame with an enhanced yellow fluorescent protein (EYFP) gene under the control of the 35S promoter in a pCAMBIA‐based binary vector (H. J. Liu, Zhejiang Academy of Science, China) to generate the fusion construct 35S‐DRL1‐EYFP. The DRL1 coding region was amplified with the primers CL394 (5′‐GAG CTC ATG GAT CAA GCA AAG GGA AAA G‐3′) and CL395 (5′‐GGT ACC TGG AAG AAC AGT AGA TAA ATA G‐3′) using a full‐length cDNA clone (RAFL14‐03‐G07) obtained from the RIKEN Bioresource Center (Ibaraki, Japan) as the template. Particle bombardment was used to introduce the fusion plasmid into onion epidermal cells by a Biolistic PDS‐1000/He system (Bio‐Rad, Hercules, CA, USA). Gold particles (1.0 µm) were coated with the plasmid and a helium pressure of 1100 psi was employed. About 360 µg of gold particles were coated with 5 µg DNA in one bombardment. The target distance between the stop screen and onion scales was maintained at 6 cm. The bombarded samples were kept in darkness at 22°C for 15 h and subsequently examined under the Leica stereomicroscope. To induce plasmolysis, a layer of onion epidermal cells was removed from the bombarded scales and incubated in 1 m sucrose solution for 20 min.  A Kpn I/Sal I fragment containing the DRL1 coding region was released from the full‐length cDNA clone. The DNA fragment was inserted between the CaMV 35S promoter and the nopaline synthase 3′‐terminator in a pCAMBIA‐derived binary vector (Yu et al., 2005). To generate the native promoter complementation construct, the 35S promoter region was replaced by the 2.0 kb upstream DRL1 genomic fragment (described earlier). The two complementation constructs were transformed independently into heterozygous drl1‐2/+ insertion lines by the floral dip method as described earlier. 
