!~ABS~! The A/T-rich interaction domain (ARID) and the HMG-box domain represent DNA-interaction modules that are found in sequence-specific as well as nonsequence-specific DNA-binding proteins. Both domains are found in a variety of DNA-interacting proteins in a wide range of eukaryotic organisms. Proteins that contain both an ARID and an HMG-box domain, here termed ARID-HMG proteins, appear to be specific for plants. This protein family is conserved in higher plants (both mono- and dicot plants) as well as lower plants such as the moss Physcomitrella. Since ARID-HMG proteins have not been studied experimentally, we have examined here two family members from Arabidopsis. The genes encoding ARID-HMG1 and ARID-HMG2 are widely expressed in Arabidopsis but at different levels. Subcellular localization experiments studying ARID-HMG1 and ARID-HMG2 fused to GFP by fluorescence microscopy show that both proteins localize primarily to cell nuclei. Analyses of the DNA-binding properties using electrophoretic mobility shift assays revealed that mediated by the HMG-box domain, ARID-HMG1 binds structure specifically to DNA minicircles. Mediated by the ARID, the protein binds preferentially to A/T-rich DNA, when compared with G/C-rich DNA. Therefore, both DNA-binding domains contribute to the DNA interactions of ARID-HMG1. Accordingly, the protein combines DNA-binding properties characteristic of ARID and HMG-box proteins.
!~RES~! To get an overview about the plant proteins that contain both an ARID and an HMG-box domain, we searched the Arabidopsis database (http://www.arabidopsis.org/) and the Plant Chromatin Database (http://www.chromdb.org/). Our survey yielded a number of amino acid sequences containing both types of (putative) DNA-binding domains (Table CITATION). Thus, the genome of the dicot plant Arabidopsis codes for four sequences, while the genome of the monocot plant rice encodes two proteins of this type. In line with earlier observations CITATION, proteins containing both an ARID and an HMG-box domain, termed here ARID-HMG, appear to be specific for plants, because we did not find related sequences in other organisms, when searching GenBank. In addition to higher plants, we identified a related protein that is encoded in the genome of the moss Physcomitrella patens (Table CITATION). Therefore, ARID-HMG proteins occur in higher and lower plant species. The overall structure of ARID-HMG proteins (∼35−52 kDa, except the larger Physcomitrella protein) is relatively conserved among the proteins of different species. They contain an ARID in the N-terminal part, while the HMG box resides within the C-terminal part of the proteins (cf. Figure CITATIONA). The amino acid sequences of the ARID-HMG proteins from Arabidopsis, poplar, rice, maize, and Physcomitrella were used for construction of a neighbor-joining tree that showed that the proteins group into subfamilies (Figure CITATIONB). Thus, Zm-HMGB115 and Os-HMGB702 form for instance a monocot-specific branch, while the branches around ARID-HMGB2, At-HMGB11, and Pt-HMGB904 or At-HMGB15, Pt-HMGB908, and Pt-HMGB909 are dicot-specific. The group around ARID-HMG1 appears to occur in both mono- and dicot plants. A multiple sequence alignment of the amino acid sequences revealed that the ARIDs (45%−96% amino acid sequence identity) and HMG-box domains (34%−96% amino acid sequence identity) are well conserved among the ARID-HMG proteins (Figure CITATION). Outside the two domains, only a short region of ∼25 residues situated between the two domains is well conserved among the different ARID-HMG proteins. Within the ARID five residues found to be characteristic of animal ARIDs CITATION are well conserved among the ARIDs of plant ARID-HMG proteins (Figure CITATIONA). Similarly, the sequence around the primary DNA-intercalating residue and the invariant tryptophan residue of the HMG-box domains CITATION is conserved in the HMG-box domains of ARID-HMG proteins (Figure CITATIONB), while the sequence around the position of the secondary DNA-intercalating residue is less conserved. Of the four Arabidopsis genes encoding ARID-HMG proteins, according to the Arabidopsis database, currently there is no evidence (EST, cDNA) for expression for the gene At1g55650, while At1g04880 appears to be expressed at very low levels. Therefore, we have chosen the 38.8 kDa ARID-HMG1 (At1g76110) and the 36.3 kDa ARID-HMG2 (At3g13350) (cf. Figure CITATIONA) for experimental analysis. To examine the expression of the two genes encoding these proteins in Arabidopsis, RNA was isolated from different tissues, and after reverse transcription it was used for estimating relative transcript levels by PCR. Using ARID-HMG1-specific primers the amplification product was obtained from all RNA samples, but with very different efficiency (Figure CITATION). Thus, the transcript level is clearly higher in leaves, flower buds, and seedlings compared to roots, cultured cells, and seeds. By contrast, the ARID-HMG2-specific PCR product is detected similarly with all RNA samples, indicating that this gene is expressed at comparable levels in all tissues, similar to the 16S RNA control. The rtPCR experiment shows that the two ARID-HMG genes are widely expressed in Arabidopsis and that the expression levels of ARID-HMG1 differ between different tissues. In animals, there are ARID-containing proteins that display a broad expression pattern, while other family members are expressed in a tissue-specific manner CITATION. Similarly, some animal HMG-box proteins are broadly expressed, while others have a more restricted expression pattern CITATION. In plants, HMG-box proteins of the HMGB family CITATION and of the SSRP1 family CITATION are widely expressed. According to predictions using the software pSORT (http://psort.ims.u-tokyo.ac.jp/form.html) ARID-HMG1 and ARID-HMG2 are nuclear proteins, but predictions of the subcellular localization of proteins currently are not very accurate CITATION. Therefore, we have examined the subcellular localization of the two Arabidopsis proteins. We have constructed plasmids suitable for expression of N-terminal GFP fusion proteins in plant protoplasts. In transient transformation assays performed with tobacco BY-2 suspension cell protoplasts, the expression of the GFP fusion proteins was driven by the CaMV 35S promoter. Transformed protoplasts were analyzed by confocal laser scanning microscopy (Figure CITATION). We have used constructs that served as controls in this experiment: GFP that is found in both the cytosol and the nucleus (Figure CITATIONG) and GFP-NLS-CHS-NES(mutated) that accumulates in the nucleus due to a strong functional basic nuclear localization signal (NLS) (Figure CITATIONE,F) CITATION. GFP-ARID-HMG1 and GFP-ARID-HMG2 show a prominent localization in the nucleus (Figure CITATIONA−D). However, they did not completely accumulate in the nuclear compartment like the control GFP-NLS-CHS-NES(mutated) or GFP-HMGB1 (Figure CITATIONH) CITATION. With both GFP-ARID-HMG1 and GFP-ARID-HMG2, GFP fluorescence was also observed in the cytosol that is much weaker than that in the nucleus but clearly detectable (Figure CITATIONC,D). Part of this finding could be due to the overexpression of the GFP fusion proteins in the protoplasts. On the other hand, control GFP fusion proteins containing strong NLSs did not show this effect in the same system (Figure CITATIONE,H). Alternatively, the weak cytosolic signal of GFP-ARID-HMG1 and GFP-ARID-HMG2 may indicate the presence of relatively weak NLSs in these proteins and/or their association with as yet unknown partner(s) in the cytosol. The occurrence of speckles in the cytosol (Figure CITATIONA−D) may favor the latter view. To examine the DNA-binding properties of ARID-HMG1, we set out to produce in E. coli the full-length protein and individual domains. Despite testing a variety of conditions (different E. coli strains, growth conditions, etc.) we were unable to produce soluble 6 × His-tagged ARID-HMG1. However, we succeeded in producing ARID-HMG1 fused to gluthatione S-transferase (GST), albeit the expression level was relatively low (compared to other proteins we produce in our laboratory). Despite testing various conditions, we were unable to produce the individual ARID in E. coli, whereas the individual HMG-box domain could be expressed efficiently as 6 × His-tagged protein. The GST-ARID-HMG1 fusion was purified by glutathione−Sepharose affinity chromatography, while the HMG-box domain was purified by three-step column chromatography. SDS−PAGE analysis of the purified proteins revealed that both GST-ARID-HMG1and the HMG-box domain are essentially pure (Figure CITATIONA). Using CD spectroscopy, we have examined the HMG-box domain of ARID-HMG1. CD wavelength scans were recorded in the range of 195−260 nm (Figure CITATIONB). The spectrum displays a shape typical of α-helical proteins, having the characteristic local minima around 208 and 222 nm. As seen with HMG-box domains of plant HMGB proteins CITATION, the CD measurements indicate that the HMG-box domain of ARID-HMG1 has an α-helical structure consistent with the solved structures of a number of HMG-box domains CITATION. It is well documented that plant HMGB proteins and SSRP1, mediated by their HMG-box domains, bind DNA nonsequence specifically, but they interact with high affinity with certain DNA structures, including DNA minicircles and four-way junctions CITATION. Purified full-length ARID-HMG1 and the individual HMG-box domain were examined for structure-specific DNA binding using electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSAs). For comparison we have used the HMG-box domain of the well-characterized maize HMGB1 protein (Zm-HMGB1box) CITATION. Increasing amounts of the three proteins were incubated with a mixture of linear and circularized 78-bp DNA fragment, and DNA-binding was examined by native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of the samples. With increasing protein input protein/DNA complexes with reduced electrophoretic mobility appear, demonstrating that the proteins bind to DNA (Figure CITATION). The three proteins bind structure specifically to the minicircle DNA, since compared to the minicircle DNA, binding to linear DNA requires higher protein concentrations. This is seen very clearly with the reference protein Zm-HMGB1box, which from a concentration of ∼10 nM binds the DNA minicircle, while binding to the linear fragment requires a protein concentration of ∼400 nM (right panel, compare lanes 2 and 7). Compared to the maize HMGB1box, the affinity for DNA of the ARID-HMG1box is lower. Thus, ARID-HMG1-box binds the minicircle from a concentration of ∼400 nM, and no interaction with the linear fragment is seen at 800 nM (middle panel, lanes 6 and 7). However, the two HMG-box domains form the same type of complexes with the minicircle DNA (compare lane 7, middle panel, and lane 4, right panel). Therefore, the DNA-binding properties of the ARID-HMG1box resemble those of the HMG-box domain of the Arabidopsis HMGB-type protein At2g34450 (rather than those of Zm-HMGB1box), since this protein also binds DNA minicircles structure specifically, but it has a generally reduced affinity for DNA, when compared to the Zm-HMGB1box CITATION. As seen by the decreasing amount of the unbound DNA band, full-length ARID-HMG1 binds the minicircle from a concentration of ∼25 nM and the linear fragment from a concentration of ∼200 nM (left panel, lanes 2 and 5). In contrast to the HMG-box domains, with full-length ARID-HMG1 no distinct complexes are formed, but the protein-bound DNA rather appears to accumulate in the wells of the gel. A similar effect was seen with the full-length maize SSRP1 protein but not with the individual SSRP1box CITATION. The EMSA experiment shows that both ARID-HMG1box and full-length ARID-HMG1 bind DNA structure specifically, and it appears that this property is mediated by the HMG-box domain. The significantly higher affinity for DNA of full-length ARID-HMG1 relative to the individual ARID-HMG1box most likely is due to the presence of the ARID domain in the full-length protein, generally enhancing the affinity for DNA (both linear and circularized). Therefore, our experiments indicate that both the ARID and the HMG-box domain contribute to the DNA binding of ARID-HMG1. Some mammalian ARID-containing proteins interact preferentially with A/T-rich DNA sites, while other members of the ARID family do not share this property CITATION. Therefore, recognition of A/T sites is not an intrinsic feature of the domain. We have compared DNA binding of full-length ARID-HMG1 to A/T-rich and G/C-rich DNA. Increasing amounts of the protein were incubated with 63-bp DNA fragments, and DNA-binding was examined by native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of the samples (Figure CITATION). With the A/T-rich DNA fragment (containing several A/T stretches) binding was observed from a concentration of 200 nM, as evident from the appearance of a distinct protein/DNA complex (lane 3, top panel). At higher protein concentrations, additional complexes of lower electrophoretic mobility appeared. With the G/C-rich fragment (containing no A/T stretch longer than 4 bp) protein binding was observed only from a concentration of ∼800 nM (lane 6, bottom panel), indicating that ARID-HMG1 displays a higher affinity for A/T-rich DNA. Moreover, distinct complexes like those formed with the A/T-rich fragment were not seen with the G/C-rich fragment. Since no binding to the A/T- and G/C-rich fragments was observed with the individual HMG-box domain of ARID-HMG1 (up to 2 μM protein concentration, data not shown), most likely the binding of ARID-HMG1 to the linear DNA fragments can be attributed to ARID−DNA interactions. This is consistent with the EMSA using the 78-bp linear fragment and minicircle (Figure CITATION), where binding to the linear fragment is only observed for ARID-HMG1 but not for the individual ARID-HMG1box. In summary, our DNA-binding experiments show that, like SIP1 (the only plant ARID protein characterized so far CITATION), ARID-HMG1 belongs the group of ARID proteins that bind preferentially A/T-rich DNA. Mediated by the HMG-box domain ARID-HMG1 can bind DNA structure specifically. Accordingly, both the ARID and the HMG-box domain contribute to the DNA interactions of ARID-HMG1, giving the protein characteristics of ARID and HMG-box proteins.
!~MM~! The sequence encoding ARID-HMG1 was amplified by PCR using DeepVent DNA polymerase (NEB), primers P1 and P2 (see CITATION Table S1 for primer sequences), and an Arabidopsis cDNA library as template. The PCR fragment was digested with BamHI/HindIII at terminal restriction enzyme recognition sites (introduced through the primers) and cloned into the BamHI/HindIII-digested plasmid pQE9 (Qiagen), giving pQE9-ARID-HMG1. Similarly, the sequence encoding ARID-HMG2 was amplified by PCR using primers P3 and P4 and cloned into BamHI/HindIII-digested plasmid pQE9, giving pQE9-ARID-HMG2. The sequence encoding the HMG-box domain of ARID-HMG1 was also amplified by PCR using primers P5 and P6 and cloned into BamHI/HindIII-digested plasmid pQE9 (Qiagen), giving pQE9-ARID-HMG1box. Plasmid pQE9-ARID-HMG1 was consecutively treated with HindIII, Klenow enzyme, and BamHI, and the sequence encoding ARID-HMG1 was cloned into BamHI/SmaI-digested pGEX-2T, giving pGEX-2T-ARID-HMG1. Plasmids pQE9-ARID-HMG1 and pQE9-ARID-HMG2 were consecutively treated with HindIII, Klenow enzyme, and EcoRI, and the sequences encoding ARID-HMG1 and ARID-HMG2 were cloned into EcoRI/SmaI-digested p5′GFP CITATION, giving p5′GFP-ARID-HMG1 and p5′GFP-ARID-HMG2. All plasmid constructions were checked by DNA sequencing. Full-length ARID-HMG1 fused to glutathione S-transferase (GST) was expressed in Escherichia coli using the plasmid pGEX-2T-ARID-HMG1 and purified by affinity chromatography using glutathione−Sepharose 4B (Amersham) as previously described CITATION, except that the protein was eluted with 10 mM reduced glutathione in 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0. 6 × His-tagged HMG-box domains of maize HMGB1 and Arabidopsis ARID-HMG1 were expressed in E. coli using the plasmids pQE9 cm-HMGa(G35-Y109) CITATION and pQE9-ARID-HMG1box and purified by three-step column chromatography (metal-chelate, ion exchange, hydrophobic interaction) as previously described CITATION. Purified recombinant proteins were checked for purity by SDS−PAGE and MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry. CD measurements using 15 μM ARID-HMG1box were performed using a Jasco J-810 instrument as described previously CITATION. A. thaliana ecotype Col-0 was grown under long-day conditions as previously described CITATION. Total RNA was extracted from ∼100 mg of frozen plant tissue using the TRIzol method (Invitrogen) and treated with DNase (MBI Fermentas). Reverse transcription was performed using 1 μg of RNA and Revert Aid H minus M-MuLV reverse transcriptase (MBI Fermentas). The obtained cDNA was used for PCR analyses using Taq DNA polymerase (Amplicon) and oligonucleotide primers P7−P12 specific for ARID-HMG1, ARID-HMG2, and 16S RNA (see CITATION Table S1 for primer sequences). Protoplasts were prepared from dark-grown tobacco BY-2 cells and transiently transformed with plasmids encoding GFP fusions (and control constructs) by PEG-mediated transformation as described previously CITATION. Excitation of GFP was performed with a standard UV light source and fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC) filters. For confocal laser scanning microscopy, samples were directly examined under oil with a 63× objective and a DM RE TCS4D microscope (Leica) equipped with an argon−krypton laser (excitation 488 nm, beam splitter 500 nm, detection 500−560 nm for GFP using Leica Scanware). Analysis of the localization of the GFP fusion proteins was performed in three independent experiments, representing approximately 60−80 transformed protoplasts. Structure-specific DNA binding of recombinant proteins was examined by EMSAs using a mixture of linear and circularized 78-bp KpnI/XbaI DNA fragment originating from pBluescript (Stratagene). The circularized form of the fragment was produced by intramolecular ligation of the 32P-labeled fragment (after creating blunt ends with the Klenow fragment of DNA polymerase I) using T4 DNA ligase in the presence of recombinant maize HMGB1(M1-K123) as described previously CITATION. Proteins were incubated with the DNA in a final volume of 20 μL of binding buffer (10 mM Tris/HCl, pH 7.5, 50 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 1 mM DTT, 5% glycerol, 0.05% bromophenol blue, 0.05% xylene cyanol) for 15 min. To test protein binding to A/T- and G/C-rich DNA, 63-bp DNA fragments of the Tub1 promoter region were amplified by PCR from genomic Physcomitrella DNA and 32P-labeled as previously described CITATION. Protein binding reactions with the A/T- and G/C-rich fragments were performed as described above. All binding reactions were analyzed in 5% polyacrylamide gels in 1 × TBE, and the DNA was visualized by phosphorimaging using a Typhoon 8600 instrument (Amersham Biosciences).
