!~ABS~! Plasma membrane repair in animal cells uses synaptotagmin 7, a Ca2+-activated membrane fusion protein that mediates delivery of intracellular membranes to wound sites by a mechanism resembling neuronal Ca2+-regulated exocytosis. Here, we show that loss of function of the homologous Arabidopsis thaliana Synaptotagmin 1 protein (SYT1) reduces the viability of cells as a consequence of a decrease in the integrity of the plasma membrane. This reduced integrity is enhanced in the syt1-2 null mutant in conditions of osmotic stress likely caused by a defective plasma membrane repair. Consistent with a role in plasma membrane repair, SYT1 is ubiquitously expressed, is located at the plasma membrane, and shares all domains characteristic of animal synaptotagmins (i.e., an N terminus-transmembrane domain and a cytoplasmic region containing two C2 domains with phospholipid binding activities). Our analyses support that membrane trafficking mediated by SYT1 is important for plasma membrane integrity and plant fitness.
!~RES~! To identify genes essential for NaCl tolerance, we performed a forward genetic screen in an Arabidopsis T-DNA insertion mutant population for plants hypersensitive to the presence of 160 mM NaCl (CITATION). As a result, we isolated a T-DNA insertion line in the Arabidopsis ecotype C24 (named syt1-1; see below) that showed hypersensitivity to NaCl. As shown in Figure 1A , wild-type and syt1-1 seedlings showed similar growth under control conditions. However, upon exposure to 160 mM NaCl, roots of wild-type seedlings grew slowly, while syt1-1 root growth was inhibited even more (Figure 1A). The genomic DNA flanking the left border of the T-DNA in syt1-1 was amplified by thermal asymmetric interlaced PCR as described previously (CITATION), revealing that the insertion was located in the 5′ untranslated region, 106 bp upstream the ATG translation start site of the At2g20990 gene (Figure 1B). The gene contains 11 exons and 10 introns and was named SYT1 because it encodes a protein with similar structure to animal synaptotagmins (Figure 1C) (CITATION; CITATION). A homology search of SYT1 against the human protein reference database (CITATION) showed syt7 as the protein with the highest homology. Syt7 is located in the membrane of lysosomes and some nonsynaptic secretory granules, where it regulates Ca2+-triggered exocytosis and plasma membrane repair (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To confirm that SYT1 was required for NaCl tolerance, we isolated an Arabidopsis mutant from the SAIL collection (SAIL_775_A08, syt1-2) with the T-DNA located in the 10th exon of At2g20990 (Figure 1B). This T-DNA line also showed hypersensitivity when growing at high NaCl (see Supplemental Figure 1A online). We did not detect SYT1 transcripts by RT-PCR in the syt1-2 mutant (Figure 1D, top), and consistent with syt1-2 being a null allele, SYT1 protein was not detected in protein gel blots of microsomal fractions isolated from syt1-2 homozygous lines (Figure 1D, bottom). Because segregation and DNA gel blot analysis indicated that syt1-1 contained several T-DNA insertions (data not shown), we decided to use the Columbia (Col-0) syt1-2 mutant allele for further studies. Comparison of the hypersensitive phenotype of syt1-2 to that of a complementing line transformed with the genomic fragment containing the SYT1 gene fully demonstrated that the NaCl hypersensitive phenotype was due to a lesion in the SYT1 gene (see Supplemental Figure 1B online). To analyze SYT1 expression, we first compiled data using the Genevestigator database (CITATION). SYT1 shows a constitutive expression in all tissues analyzed, and its expression is little affected by any of the factors reported in the database. RT-PCR experiments using RNA extracted from roots, shoots, rosette and cauline leaves, inflorescences, and siliques also suggested a ubiquitous expression for SYT1 (Figure 1E). To investigate the in planta expression patterns of SYT1, we generated transgenic lines containing a fused β-glucuronidase (GUS) gene under control of the SYT1 cis-regulatory sequences located upstream the open reading frame. The GUS expression patterns of several independent lines analyzed were very similar, and Figure 1F shows the results for a representative line. In roots of 3-d-old seedlings, all cells showed expression of SYT1 (Figure 1F, panel a). Strong expression was found in the vascular tissue of the elongation zone and cells of the root cap. In 2-week-old plants, SYT1 was expressed in most tissues. It was strongly expressed in the vascular tissue and epidermal cells of cotelydons and leaves (Figure 1F, panel b). SYT1 was also highly expressed in trichomes (Figure 1F, panel c) and the root system (Figure 1F, panel d). In inflorescence, GUS activity was observed in most tissues of inflorescence stems, sepals, and stamen filaments (Figure 1F, panel e). These results of GUS activity are in agreement with the SYT1 expression determined by RT-PCR and the Genevestigator database (CITATION). To provide clues to SYT1 function, we next investigated its subcellular localization. We used different strategies, including analysis of transient Nicotiana tabacum and stable Arabidopsis lines transformed with a 35S:SYT1:GFP (green fluorescent protein) construct as well as immunolocalization using anti-SYT1 antibodies. In leaf cells of transiently transformed tobacco, SYT1:GFP localizes to plasma membrane domains (Figure 2A ) resembling elements of cortical endoplasmic reticulum. A similar pattern of expression was observed in control GFP-ER cells (see Supplemental Figure 2A online), highlighting the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) tubules like SYT1:GFP, but lacking the SYT1:GFP positive stable spots at the plasma membrane. [[FIGURE]] We also determined that the predicted transmembrane domain has an essential role in anchoring SYT1 to the plasma membrane because a transiently expressed GFP fusion protein lacking this domain is localized in the cytosol and inside the nucleus (see Supplemental Figure 2B online). Localization of SYT1:GFP to the plasma membrane is observed at distinct patches of cell periphery organizing Hechtian strands, which interconnect cell wall with the plasma membrane after plasmolysis (Figures 2B and 2C). This pattern was identical in cells of the lower epidermis of leaves and in epidermal cells at the root hair zone in stable transformed Arabidopsis (Figures 2D and 2E). At the root apex, there was high expression with abundant plasma membrane and cell periphery localization of SYT1 in root cap cells (Figure 2F). Subcellular localization of SYT1 was also analyzed using the anti-SYT1–specific antibodies previously used in protein gel blot analysis (Figure 3 ). As a control, we used preimmune serum, indicating that the signal is specific for SYT1 (see Supplemental Figures 3A and 3B online). Localization of SYT1 in a cross section of a root apex (Figure 3A) corroborates that the SYT1 signal is associated with the plasma membrane. Especially strong SYT1-positive signals were found at the cross-walls of the transition zone of the root apex (Figure 3B), which accomplishes a high rate of endocytosis and vesicle trafficking (CITATION). In the shoot apex and cotyledons, there is an even distribution of SYT1 at the plasma membrane (Figures 3C and 3D). Immunogold electron microscopy confirmed localization of the SYT1 at the plasma membrane (Figures 3E and 3F). Young cell walls showed more abundant decoration of the plasma membrane with SYT1 (Figures 3E and 3F; see Supplemental Figure 2C online), and there is also abundant localization of SYT1 within plasmodesmata (Figure 3F). Our data indicate that SYT1 localizes preferentially to the plasma membrane. These results are also consistent with two previous proteomics reports that identified SYT1 in the plasma membrane using mass spectrometry (CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] All synaptotagmins are composed of an N-terminal transmembrane region, a central linker sequence, and two C-terminal C2 domains. The Ca2+-dependent binding to phospholipid membranes is the best-characterized function of C2 domains. The two C2 domains of synaptotagmins, C2A and C2B, have an independently folding, compact b-sandwich structure formed by two four-stranded β-sheets with flexible loops at the top and the bottom (CITATION; CITATION). The conserved acidic residues (Asp) in these loops, thought to play crucial roles in coordinating Ca2+ ions, are also conserved in the C2A domain of SYT1 but not in the C2B domain (Figure 4A ) (CITATION; CITATION). Nevertheless, analyses of animal synaptotagmins indicate that Ca2+ and phospholipid binding properties cannot be reliably predicted from sequence analysis alone (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Therefore, we studied whether the C2 domains of Arabidopsis SYT1 are capable of forming Ca2+-dependent complexes with negatively charged liposomes (25% PS/75% PC). For this purpose, we used a centrifugation assay that monitors Ca2+-dependent phospholipid binding of C2 domains to liposomes (CITATION). Recombinant C2 fragments of SYT1 and C2AB from rat-syt1 (used as a positive control) were purified as glutathione S-transferase (GST) fusion proteins and incubated with liposomes in the presence of different concentrations of free Ca2+. After isolation, liposome-bound proteins were analyzed using SDS-PAGE and Coomassie blue staining. Because we could not predict the length of C2 domain required for phospholipid binding, we generated constructs with various N-terminal extensions in the C2A domain. All SYT1-C2A peptides were capable of binding phospholipids in a Ca2+-dependent manner (Figure 4B). Unexpectedly, a marked Ca2+-independent binding of SYT1-C2B to liposomes was observed (Figures 4B and 4D). The binding properties of SYT1-C2AB differed from those of the single domains and behaved as a mix of the individual C2 domains (i.e., binding of liposomes in the absence of Ca2+, but the binding increased approximately fourfold in the presence of Ca2+) (Figures 4B and 4E). To be physiologically significant, phospholipid binding to SYT1 should be stimulated by Ca2+ concentrations similar to those achieved in planta. We calculated a half-maximal binding of 6 μM free Ca2+ for SYT1-C2A (Figure 4C), similar to the 4.1 μM Ca2+ we determined for rat syt1-C2AB (see Supplemental Figure 4 online), a value previously reported for rat syt1-C2AB (CITATION). The half maximum binding of SYT1-C2AB was ∼1 to 2 μM Ca2+ (Figure 4E), indicating cooperativity between the C2 domains for Ca2+ and phospholipid binding as also reported for neuronal syt1 (CITATION; CITATION). We identified syt1-2 by its hypersensitivity to high NaCl (Figure 1A). We then performed a detailed physiological analysis of syt1-2 responses to NaCl. Because SYT1 shows homology to animal Ca2+ sensors and presents Ca2+-dependent phospholipid binding activity, NaCl responses were determined in the presence of low Ca2+ (0.3 mM) and high Ca2+ (3 mM) in the medium. syt1-2 seedlings already showed a reduced growth compared with the wild type in control conditions (Figure 5A ). However, growth inhibition of syt1-2 was enhanced upon NaCl treatment relative to the wild type (Figure 5A). The presence of low Ca2+ increased the sensitivity of wild-type and syt1-2 seedlings to NaCl. At low Ca2+ and 150 mM NaCl, the main root of wild-type seedlings resumed its growth while syt1-2 root growth was arrested (Figure 5A). However, at high Ca2+, growth arrest of syt1-2 roots occurred at 200 mM NaCl (Figure 5A). This was quantified by fresh weight measurements of seedlings after NaCl treatments (Figure 5B). With the exception of 200 mM NaCl, significant differences in fresh weight between wild-type and syt1-2 seedlings were found at all concentrations analyzed, with the highest differences occurring at 150 mM NaCl. [[FIGURE]] In animals, syt7 plays an essential role in plasma membrane repair (CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, we speculated that loss-of-function of SYT1 would have a defective plasma membrane repair mechanism, resulting in the loss of membrane integrity. We then determined electrolyte leakage to quantify the extent of plasma membrane damage caused by increasing NaCl concentrations at high and low Ca2+ concentrations (Figure 5C). When growing in medium without NaCl and high Ca2+, a higher percentage of electrolytes was lost from syt1-2 seedlings compared with the wild type, indicating a reduced integrity of the plasma membrane of syt1-2 even in standard conditions. This reduced plasma membrane integrity is comparable to that recently reported for the Arabidopsis lew1 mutant affected in dolichol synthesis and abiotic stress tolerance (CITATION). Upon NaCl treatments, more electrolytes were lost from syt1-2 plants, with the highest difference at 150 mM NaCl (Figure 5C). The decrease of extracellular Ca2+ in the medium caused a general decrease in membrane integrity of both syt1-2 and wild-type seedlings at all conditions analyzed (Figure 5C). A time-course analysis using 150 mM NaCl indicated that at 4 h there was an important difference in electrolyte leakage between syt1-2 plants and the wild type (see Supplemental Figure 5A online). These differences between syt1-2 and wild-type seedlings persisted at 12 and 24 h of NaCl stress and were attenuated after 48 h of treatment. If SYT1 plays a role in plasma membrane integrity, we hypothesized that other conditions that result in plasma membrane stress, such as osmotic shock or freezing, would produce an increased sensitivity of syt1-2 plants. We treated syt1-2 and wild-type seedlings with polyethylene glycol (PEG) to mimic drought stress as described previously (CITATION). Under control, 10%, or 20% PEG treatment, there was a small difference in the percentage of electrolyte leakage between wild-type and syt1-2 plants (Figure 5D). However, at 30% PEG, significantly more electrolytes were lost from syt1-2 seedlings than from the wild type. We then investigated if the reduced plasma membrane integrity of syt1-2 was dependent on the tissue analyzed. As shown in Figure 5E, both root and shoots showed higher electrolyte leakage in syt1-2 than in the wild type after 30% PEG treatment consistent with the ubiquitous expression of the SYT1 gene (Figures 1E and 1F). Plasma membrane integrity of syt1-2 and wild-type seedlings after freezing was then analyzed. As shown in Supplemental Figure 5B online, syt1-2 seedlings showed lower membrane integrity than the wild type at control and subfreezing temperatures; however, these differences became apparent after freezing. Overall, we demonstrate that syt1-2 seedlings present reduced plasma membrane integrity with respect to the wild type in control conditions that are enhanced under stress. Electrolyte leakage experiments indicate that both roots and shoots of syt1-2 have reduced plasma membrane integrity (Figure 5E). Therefore, we studied plasma membrane integrity in vivo at cellular level using Arabidopsis roots, as this organ allows easy monitoring of cell membranes using confocal microscopy. We used the fluorescent dye FM4-64, a well-established endocytic marker (CITATION). It inserts into the lipid bilayer and labels the plasma membrane. Subsequently, it is taken up into the cell interior via endocytosis and gradually labels the entire endosomal network (CITATION; CITATION). Fluorescence of a cell with a wounded plasma membrane after stress will increase many-fold owing to an unrestricted influx of the dye and a massive staining of the endomembrane network. This was tested in root cells following physical damage of Arabidopsis seedlings (Figure 6A ) and further confirmed by the use of double labeling with fluorescein diacetate (FDA) and FM4-64 that distinguishes live from dead cells (Figure 6B). [[FIGURE]] For these experiments we used 3-d-old seedlings with a single root for reproducibility. We first investigated the effect of increasing concentrations of NaCl in membrane integrity after 1 h in wild-type and syt1-2 roots. Because we have shown that low Ca2+ enhances the plasma membrane damage, we performed these experiments using low (0.3 mM) Ca2+ concentration. At control conditions (without NaCl) and up to 100 mM NaCl, no membrane damage was found in either wild-type or syt1-2 roots (Figure 6C). At 120 mM NaCl, a few cells in syt1-2 were completely stained with FM4-64, indicating disruption of their plasma membrane. The number of cells with damaged plasma membrane in syt1-2 increased at higher concentrations of NaCl (Figure 6C). At 200 mM NaCl, while most cells were alive in wild-type roots, in syt1-2, only those cells located at the root tip were viable, indicating that the sensitivity of the plasma membrane was dependent on the cell type (Figure 6C). The use of double labeling with FDA and FM4-64 in these conditions further allowed us to clearly distinguish live from dead cells (Figure 6D). We next analyzed plasma membrane integrity during a time-course experiment using 200 mM NaCl. We used this high NaCl concentration because it allows a continuous monitoring of plasma membrane damage of wild-type cells within a workable period of time. In control conditions, all cells from wild-type and syt1-2 roots showed intact plasma membranes. After 30 min, all cells from the elongation region of syt1-2 showed damaged plasma membrane, while only a few cells of wild-type roots were fully stained (see Supplemental Figure 6A online). In fact, as early as 30 s after the onset of the NaCl stress, we could observe lack of integrity of epidermal cells in syt1-2 plants, indicating that this process occurs very rapidly and locally at the site of stress imposition (see Supplemental Figures 6B and 6C online). After 150 min, in contrast with the wild type, all cells in syt1-2, including meristematic cells, showed full staining indicative of total loss of viability. To analyze at the cellular level the phenotype observed in conditions in which syt1-2 and the wild type presented the main physiological differences (Figure 5A), we studied plasma membrane integrity of seedlings after 7 d of 150 mM NaCl treatment (Figure 6E). Whereas the main roots of syt1-2 show very limited growth at 150 mM NaCl and low Ca2+, wild-type roots were able to resume their growth (indicated by arrows in Figure 6E; see also Figure 5A, insets). FM4-64 staining showed that all cells in syt1-2 roots were damaged, explaining their growth arrest (Figure 6E). Interestingly, most cells originated in wild-type roots after being transferred to NaCl (distinguishable by the thickening of the root) showed intact plasma membranes in contrast with those cells originated prior to the transfer to NaCl (Figure 6E). The most likely explanation is that meristematic cells of wild-type roots survive the NaCl shock and the newly formed cells are able to increase their membrane stability by adapting to the high NaCl conditions, thereby allowing root growth. As we did previously for ion leakage measurements, we analyzed other osmotic agents to further demonstrate that the plasma membrane sensitivity of syt1-2 is caused by the osmotic component of NaCl. Under control, 10% PEG, and 20% PEG treatment, no differences were found in wild-type and syt1-2 roots (see Supplemental Figure 7A online). However, at 30% PEG, while most cells of wild-type roots showed intact plasma membranes, cells from the elongation region of syt1-2 showed damaged plasma membranes. Similar results to those obtained using NaCl were observed when KCl was used as an osmotic agent (see Supplemental Figure 7B online). We next investigated whether the loss of plasma membrane viability is a general outcome of mutants that are affected in abiotic stress tolerance. For this purpose, we used the previously identified sos1 and osm1/syp61 Arabidopsis mutants. sos1 shows hypersensitivity to NaCl, and the affected gene encodes a plasma membrane Na+/H+ antiporter (CITATION). osm1/syp6 shows reduced osmotic stress tolerance as a consequence of a mutation in a syntaxin gene (CITATION). As shown in Supplemental Figure 8 online, roots of osm1/syp61 and sos1 show similar plasma membrane sensitivity to their respective wild type after being exposed to NaCl stress. Taken together, these data indicate that reduced plasma membrane viability is not a general feature of abiotic stress hypersensitivity mutants.
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype C24RD29a-LUC T-DNA insertion lines (CITATION) from which the syt1-1 mutant was isolated were provided by J.K. Zhu (University of California, Riverside, CA). The Arabidopsis Col-0 T-DNA insertion mutant syt1-2 (SAIL_775_A08) was identified using the SIGnAL website (http://signal.salk.edu) and was obtained from the ABRC. Preparation of the T-DNA–tagged Arabidopsis ecotype C24RD29a-LUC population and root-bending assay identification of salt-sensitive mutants were described previously (CITATION; CITATION). Briefly, Arabidopsis seeds were sown onto MS agar medium, stratified for 3 d at 4°C, and then incubated at 23°C for 1 week. Seedlings were then transferred to basal medium supplemented with 160 mM NaCl, and root growth was scored 10 d later. DNA flanking the left border of the inserted T-DNA in syt1-2 plants was isolated by thermal asymmetric interlaced PCR (CITATION) and subcloned into cloning vector pGEM-T Easy Vector system (Promega) according to the manufacturer's instructions. The entire isolated fragment was sequenced. The primers used in the thermal asymmetric interlaced PCR were specific for the T-DNA left border (LB1, 5′-ATACGACGGATCGTAATTTGTC-3′; LB2, 5′-TAATAACGCTGCGGACATCTAC-3′; and LB3, 5′-TTGACCATCATACTCATTGCTG-3′) and degenerate primers (DEG1, 5′-WGCNAGTNAGWANAA-3′; and DEG2, 5′-AWGCANGNCWGANATA-3′). To isolate syt1-2 plants homozygous for the T-DNA insertion, we used the following primer pairs: primer SYT1DPCRR (5′-TGGAAGCAAGAAATTCGGTT-3′) was paired with the T-DNA–specific primer SAIL LB3 (5′-TTCATAACCAATCTCGATACAC-3′) or with the primer SYT1DPCRF (5′-GTATAGGGGGAAGCTGGAGG-3′). Our molecular analyses indicated that the orientation of the T-DNA was in the opposite direction as indicated on the T-DNA Express website (http://signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/tdnaexpress). Seeds of the mutants and wild-type Col-0 were sown on half-strength MS medium, 1.5% (w/v) sucrose, and 1% (w/v) agar, stratified for 3 d at 4°C, and then incubated at 23°C under a 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle for another 3 d. Seedlings were then transferred to one-tenth MS medium with NaCl added as described and to the same plates plus 3 mM CaCl2. One-week-old seedlings grown in half-strength MS plates were transferred to one-tenth MS agar plates supplemented with the designated NaCl concentrations and to the same plates plus 3 mM CaCl2. There were three replicates for each treatment. After the indicated times, seedlings were carefully removed from plates, washed with deionized water, and placed in tubes containing 5 mL of deionized water. The tubes were shaken overnight, and the conductivity of the solution was measured. The tubes with the seedlings were then autoclaved. After cooling down to room temperature, conductivities of the solutions were measured again. The percentage of electrolyte leakage was calculated as the percentage of the conductivity before autoclaving over that after autoclaving. Electrolyte leakage induced by PEG treatment was determined using 1-week-old seedlings grown in half MS agar plates as described previously (CITATION). Three independent experiments were done. For ion leakage measurements of roots and shoots after PEG treatment, we followed the same protocol as for whole seedlings, but shoots were excised from roots using a razor blade and treated separately. Ion leakage measurements after freezing were performed essentially as described (CITATION) with some modifications. One-week-old seedlings grown in half-strength MS plates were placed in the bottom of a test tube with 5 mL of deionized water. The portion of the test tubes that contained the samples was immersed in refrigerant (50% ethylene glycol) in a programmable cooling bath. The seedlings in the test tubes were equilibrated at 0°C for 10 min and frozen by seeding with ice. The samples were then equilibrated again at 0°C for 1 h and cooled at a rate of 1°C h−1 to the indicated temperatures. The test tubes were transferred to a refrigerator at 4°C in the dark after reaching the desired freezing temperature and allowed to thaw overnight. Nonfrozen control treatments (25 and 4°C) were maintained at the corresponding temperatures during the whole time of freezing procedure and overnight. After the treatments, the tubes were shaken for 2 h in the dark at room temperature and the conductivity of the solutions was measured. There were three replicates for each treatment. Total RNA was isolated using Trizol reagent (Life Technologies) according to the manufacturer's instructions, either from 10-d-old seedlings or from mature plants. Genomic DNA was removed by adding 5 units of DNase I (Gibco BRL) and incubated for 30 min at 37°C and then for 10 min at 70°C to inactivate the enzyme. For the first-strand cDNA synthesis, total RNA (1 μg) was used as template and the retrotranscription was performed using the SuperScript III first-strand synthesis system (Invitrogen). For PCR reactions, 1 μL of the synthesized cDNA was used as template. PCR was started at 95°C for 3 min followed by 25 cycles of 94°C (30 s) and 60°C (30 s). The following primers were used for the PCR reactions: SYT1RTFw (5′-ATTTGGGTTGAAGGCAACAG-3′) and SYT1RTRv (5′-CGATTTGGATCTTTCCGTTC-3′). For an internal control, the constitutive gene tubulin β-5 chain (At1g20010) was used with the following primers: tubulinF (5′-CCTGATAACTTCGTCTTTGG-3′) and tubulinR (5′-GTGAACTCCATCTCGTCCAT-3′). Microsomal fractions were isolated from 3-week old Col-0 and SYT1 plants grown in half-strength MS agar plates as described elsewhere (CITATION). The protein concentration was determined with the BCA protein assay reagent (Pierce). Fifteen micrograms per sample were electrophoretically resolved in 12% Tris-HCl SDS gel (Bio-Rad) and transferred to the Protran transfer membrane (Schleicher and Schuell BioScience). The membranes were incubated for 1.5 h with an antiserum raised against synthetic peptides corresponding to C2A (amino acids 365 to 378) and C2B (amino acids 457 to 470) domains of SYT1. After 1.5 h of incubation with a secondary antibody conjugated with horseradish peroxidase (Sigma-Aldrich), the membranes were developed by ECL (GE Healthcare). Antibodies were produced against the SYT1 peptides RKTLDGGEDGQPPD and KKNRDPRWNEEFTF by GenScript (www.genscript.com). For constructing the promoter:GUS fusion construct, genomic DNA from Arabidopsis ecotype Col-0 was extracted with a genomic DNA preparation kit (Qiagen), according to the manufacturer's instructions. A fragment of 1506 bp upstream from the translation start codon in the gene At2g20990 was amplified using the primers SYT1For (5′-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTCATTGCTAGAGTGAAAAGGGTTTAG-3′) and SYT1Rev (5′-GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTCTTTGATTTCCGTTTCAGATCCAAC-3′), which include the B1 and B2 recombination site sequences (Gateway). The SYT1 promoter was cloned using the Gateway system (Invitrogen) by first cloning into pDONR207, followed by cloning into the binary vector pBI101-G (a gift from P. Hussey, Durham University). The final vector was introduced into Arabidopsis by Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated transformation. GUS assays using transgenic T2 lines at different developmental stages were performed as described by CITATION. For syt1-2 complementation, the complete gene At2g20990 was amplified using the following primers: SYT1COMPF (5′-AGGAATTCAAGATCCTCTTGGT-3′) and SYT1COMPR (5′-TCGTCGACCATATATGATAGATAC-3′). The amplified genomic fragment was cloned into the binary vector pCAMBIA1300, and the recombinant plasmid was used to transform A. tumefaciens strain GV3101. The resulting A. tumefaciens transformants were used to transform syt1-2 mutant plants. The resultant T1 plants were selected in half-strength MS medium supplemented with 50 mg/L hygromycin. The resistant plants were transferred and grown in soil. The homozygous identity of T-DNA insertion of the rescued plants was confirmed by PCR assay. To create the SYT1:GFP construct, the coding sequence of SYT1 was PCR amplified using the primers SYT1GFPFor (5′-CACCATGGGCTTTTTCAGTACGATACT-3′) and SYT1GFPRev (5′- TGCCATGGAAGAGGCAGTTCGCCACTCG-3′) and cloned into the 35S-GFP-Nos carrying expression vector pCAT-GFP (CITATION). For A. tumefaciens–mediated transformation, the complete expression cassette, 35S-SYT1:GFP:Nos, was excised and cloned into the binary vector pCB302 (CITATION). The truncated SYT1 protein missing the N-terminal part (first 111 bp, 37 amino acids) of the protein was PCR amplified using the primers deltaN-SYT1for (5′-GCGGATCCTGAAATTCG-3′) and deltaN-SYT1rev (5′-GCACTAGTTCAAGAGGCAGTTCG-3′) and cloned into a modified pCAT-GFP vector, pCAT-GFPm3, in which the STOP codon was deleted. From the resulting vector, pCAT-GFPm3-ΔNSYT1, the expression cassette was subcloned into pCB302. The binary vectors where transformed into A. tumefaciens strain GV3101. Arabidopsis Col-0 was transformed, and selection for phosphinothricin resistance was performed on soil, spraying 2-week-old seedlings with 1 mL/L BASTA (Aventis). For ER labeling, tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) leaves were transiently transformed with the vector pBINm-GFP5-ER (CITATION). N. tabacum was grown on soil for 4 weeks at 25°C, and leaves were transiently transformed via A. tumefaciens leaf infiltration according to CITATION. The bacterial optical density (OD600) used for infiltration was 0.05 for all constructs. Seedlings of transgenic Arabidopsis were grown on vertically oriented half-strength MS Petri dishes. Three-day-old seedlings were mounted in liquid medium using a spacer of one layer of Parafilm between slide and cover slip or in similar slide growth chambers. For transiently transformed leaves of N. tabacum, pieces of ∼1 cm2 were cut out and mounted between slide and cover slip in tap water. For plasma membrane integrity analyses, Arabidopsis seeds were germinated in half-strength MS plates. Three-day-old seedlings were transferred to one-tenth MS supplemented with NaCl, KCl, or PEG 8000 at the described concentrations. After the corresponding treatment, seedlings were incubated with 50 μM FM4-64 for 3 min and mounted in one-tenth MS liquid medium using a spacer of one layer of cover slip between slide and cover slip for confocal microscopy. The confocal microscopy was performed on a Leica SP5 confocal microscope, equipped with argon and krypton lasers. For excitation of GFP, the 488-nm line of the argon laser was used and emission was detected with the setting of the acousto optical beam splitter set to 500 to 560 nm. Arabidopsis and tobacco samples were examined using ×40 or ×16 oil immersion lenses. For detection of the green fluorescent dye FDA, the same settings as for GFP were used. The red fluorescent dye FM4-64 was excited by the 488-nm laser line, and emission was filtered between 620 and 710 nm. Projections of serial confocal sections and contrast enhancement were done using image processing software (Adobe Systems; Leica Application Suite Advanced Fluorescence; Leica Microsystems). RT-PCR of Col mRNA was used to produce GST fusion clones in pGEX-KG corresponding to the following SYT1 amino acid sequences: 229 to 402, 239 to 402, and 244 to 402, corresponding to the SYT1-C2A domain; 403 to 541, corresponding to the SYT1-C2B domain; and 244 to 541, corresponding to the SYT1-C2AB domain. Purification of GST fusion proteins was performed essentially as described (CITATION). Briefly, proteins expressed in BL21-RP were released by sonication and incubated with glutathione agarose beads (0.3 mL/L culture) overnight at 4°C. Proteins were washed on the agarose beads four times with 10 mL PBS, 1 mM EDTA, and 0.1 g/L PMSF. Purified protein was eluted from the agarose with 2.5 mL 100 mM Tris, pH 8.0, and 40 mM glutathione and concentrated to ∼0.2 mL by centricon centrifugation (Millipore). Protein concentrations were determined by the method of CITATION with protein dye reagent concentrate from Bio-Rad, using BSA as standard. Phospholipid binding to isolated single C2 domains (C2A or C2B) and to the double C2 domain (C2AB) of SYT1 and syt1-C2AB was assessed by a centrifugation assay as described previously (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Briefly, phospholipids (PS/PC = 25/75, w/w) (Sigma-Aldrich) in chloroform were dried as a thin layer under a stream of nitrogen. Dried lipids were resuspended in buffer A (100 mM NaCl/50 mM HEPES, pH 6.8/4 mM EGTA) by vortexing for 20 min. Large multilamellar vesicles were collected by centrifugation for 20 min at 20,800g and resuspended in buffer A with various concentrations of free Ca2+ and used within 1 h. Calcium concentrations were calculated using the WEBMAXC program (http://www.stanford.edu/∼cpatton/maxc.html). Purified soluble recombinant GST-C2 domains (6 μg) and vesicles (100 μg of phospholipids; total volume = 1 mL) were incubated for 15 min at 27°C with shaking at 250 rev/min on a platform shaker. Large multilamellar vesicles and bound protein were isolated by centrifugation for 10 min at 20,800g at 4°C. Pellets were washed three times with 0.5 mL of the corresponding incubation buffer, and the bound protein was analyzed by SDS-PAGE and densitometry using a Bio-Rad GS670 scanning densitometer of the Coomassie Brilliant Blue–stained gel. Arabidopsis seedlings (Col-0) were grown on 1% phytagar plates, half-strength MS basal salts, 1.5% sucrose, pH 5.7, at 23°C and 16 h, 150 μE m−2s−1. Five-day-old seedlings were prepared for immunolocalization following the protocol by CITATION. Seedlings were fixed in 4% formaldehyde, embedded in PEG 400 distearate-1 hexadecanol, and sectioned. Sections were probed with either polyclonal anti-SYT1 antibody or preimmune serum, and antibody binding was subsequently visualized with Alexa Fluor 488–conjugated goat anti-rabbit antibody (Molecular Probes). After counterstaining by either 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole or propidium iodide, fluorescence images were examined with either Zeiss LSM 510 META or LEICA DMRB microscopes supplemented by a Hitachi HV-C20 camera controlled by a DISCUS microscopic program (Carl H. Hilgers, Technishes Büro). Images were processed using Adobe Photoshop CS. Seedlings were fixed in 4% freshly prepared formaldehyde in MTSB buffer at 4°C for 6 h and then dehydrated through a graded ethanol series (also at 4°C) and embedded in LR White medium (Agar Scientific). Ultrathin sections were labeled by antibody against SYT1 and then with goat antirabbit IgG conjugated with 15-nm coloidal gold particles (Sigma-Aldrich). The sections were examined with a Zeiss LEO 912 AB transmission electron microscope. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative data library under accession number At2g20990 (SYT1) and in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers NP_004191 (human syt7), EDM16756 (rat syt1), and AAA87725 (rat syt7). syt1-2 is from the Arabidopsis SAIL collection (SAIL_775_A08). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Phenotypic Characterization of the syt1-2 Mutant Allele and Genetic Complementation. Supplemental Figure 2. Localization of the SYT1 Protein. Supplemental Figure 3. Immunochemical Control Experiment Using Preimmune Serum. Supplemental Figure 4. Ca2+- and Phospholipid-Dependent Membrane Binding by Rat Synaptotagmin 1. Supplemental Figure 5. Electrolyte Leakage of Wild-Type and syt1-2 Seedlings upon NaCl and Freezing Treatments. Supplemental Figure 6. Time-Course Analysis of Plasma Membrane Integrity upon NaCl Treatment. Supplemental Figure 7. Polyethylene Glycol and KCl Produce Similar Effects as NaCl. Supplemental Figure 8. osm1 and sos1 Mutants Show Similar Membrane Integrity as Wild-Type Plants.
