!~ABS~! Membrane trafficking to the plasma membrane (PM) is a highly organized process which enables plant cells to build up their bodies. SNARE (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor) genes, which encode the proteins involved in membrane trafficking, are much more abundant in the Arabidopsis genome than in that of any other eukaryote. We have previously shown that a large number of SNARE molecules in the Arabidopsis cell are localized predominantly on the PM. In the present study, in order to elucidate the physiological function of each PM-localized SNARE, we analyzed the spatiotemporal expression profiling of nine SYP1s that are resident in the PM of Arabidopsis, and used the information thus acquired to generate transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing green fluorescent protein-fused Qa-SNAREs under control of their authentic promoters. Among the nine SYP1s, only SYP132 is expressed ubiquitously in all tissues throughout plant development. The expression patterns of the other SYP1s, in contrast, are tissue specific, and all different from one another. A particularly noteworthy example is SYP123, which is predominantly expressed in root hair cells during root development, and shows a focal accumulation pattern at the tip region of root hairs. These results suggest that SYP132 is involved in constitutive membrane trafficking to the PM throughout plant development, while the other SYP1s are involved in membrane trafficking events such as root formation or tip growth of root hair, with some redundancy.
!~RES~! Based on a phylogenic analysis of the SNAREs found in green plants, Sanderfoot (CITATION) categorized the PM-resident SYP1 clade into two large groups, SYP12 and SYP13. The SYP12 group is further divided into four distinct subgroups. Up to five subgroups of Qa-SNAREs may exist on the PM, namely SYP13 (SYP131 and SYP132), PEN1/ROR2 (SYP121 and SYP122), SYP124 (SYP123, SYP124 and SYP125), SYP11/KNOLLE (SYP111/KNOLLE) and SYP112. Using the Genevestigator V3 microarray database (Zimmermann et al. CITATION, Hruz et al. CITATION), we analyzed the tissue-specific gene expression patterns of all SYP1 group SNAREs. As shown in Supplementary Fig. S1, SYP111 is highly expressed in organs containing dividing cells, such as root tip, silique and shoot apex, whereas its functional paralog, SYP112, is expressed to a lesser degree throughout all tissues so far examined. The PEN1/ROR2 subgroup Qa-SNAREs, SYP121 and SYP122, show similar expression patterns, but the expression of SYP121 is slightly higher than that of SYP122 in the lateral root cap. SYP123, one of the SYP124 subgroup SNAREs, is predominantly expressed in particular root tissues including the elongation zone, root hair zone and the lateral root. In contrast, the other SYP124 subgroup SNAREs, SYP124 and SYP125, are expressed only in pollen. One SYP13 subgroup SNARE, SYP131, is also specifically expressed in pollen, whereas SYP132, another member of this subgroup, shows a ubiquitous expression throughout all tissues. Thus, these PM Qa-SNAREs are expressed differently among Arabidopsis organs, suggesting that these SNAREs might have distinct functions in plant development. We generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing GFP-fused PM-resident SYP1 SNAREs under control of their native promoters, and simultaneously observed the expression patterns and subcellular localization with confocal laser microscopy. Among the PM-resident Qa-SNARE molecules, five (SYP111, SYP121, SYP122, SYP123 and SYP132) were expressed in certain root tissues of 5-day-old seedlings. The GFP fluorescence of SYP111/KNOLLE was detected exclusively in dividing cells in the root tip region (Fig. 1A). The majority of expressed SYP111 proteins were predominantly localized to the forming cell plates during cytokinesis (arrows in Fig. 1C), although faint fluorescent signals were also observed on the intracellular punctate structures around the cell plate in the same cells (arrowheads in Fig. 1C). These punctate GFP signals partially overlapped with the fluorescence of an endocytosis marker, FM4-64 (Fig. 1E), indicating that GFP–SYP111 was localized to various punctate organelles including the Golgi and trans-Golgi network, as well as to the endosomes (Reichardt et al. CITATION). No intracellular signals were detected in non-dividing cells anywhere in the root tissues including the root tip. The localization pattern of GFP–SYP111 observed here was completely consistent with the localization pattern of authentic SYP111 that was shown in an indirect immunofluorescent experiment (Volker et al. CITATION). These results imply that our own promoter system revealed the precise subcellular localizations and tissue-specific expression of SNARE molecules throughout the plant body.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In contrast to SYP111 with its characteristic restricted expression pattern, SYP132 was expressed ubiquitously in almost all cells in the root tissues, including the root apical meristem, epidermis, cortex, endodermis, stele and root hair cell (Fig. 1F, H, I). Although in non-dividing cells the fluorescence of GFP–SYP132 was only detected on the PM, in dividing cells its fluorescence was also observed in cytosolic punctate structures in addition to the cell plates (asterisks in Fig. 1F). It has been reported elsewhere that PM-localized Qa-SNARE molecules can be detected in FM4-64-positive endosomes (Uemura et al. CITATION); accordingly, we believe that the GFP–SYP132-containing punctate structures we observed were the endosomes. SYP121 was expressed predominantly in the epidermal cells and lateral root cap cells in the root tip region (Fig. 2A). The expression in lateral root cap cells observed with GFP fluorescence is consistent with the microarray data (Supplementary Fig. S1). The epidermal expression of SYP121 was observed in the whole root, but the intensity of the fluorescence decreased during root development. Particularly in root hair cells, GFP fluorescence was weaker in the differentiation zone, where root hairs begin to develop (Fig. 2E and Supplementary Fig. S2A–C). Finally, weak GFP signals were constantly observed in all types of cells in various tissues, including the cortex, endodermis and stele, in addition to the epidermal cells in the mature root region (Fig. 2I). Notably, GFP–SYP121 formed patch-like structures which were scattered on the PM in addition to its normal PM localization (Fig. 2E). Longitudinal imaging of GFP–SYP121 in the root showed that these patch-like structures protruded slightly into the cytosolic region from the PM (Supplementary Fig. S2A–C). Time-lapse observation revealed that several of these dot structures of GFP–SYP121 moved dynamically along the surface of PM (Supplementary Fig. S3, arrows), whereas predominant fluorescent dots were less mobile on the PM (Supplementary Fig S3, arrowheads).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The expression profile of GFP-tagged SYP122 during root development was completely different from that of SYP121. In the root tip region, no fluorescence was observed in any cells examined (Fig. 2C). Instead, GFP fluorescence appeared in the endodermal cells at the differentiation zone (Fig. 2G). In the mature root region, a weak expression of GFP–SYP122 was observed in the cortex and epidermis, in addition to the strong expression in the endodermal cells (Fig. 2K and Supplementary Fig. S2D–F). Thus the expression patterns and intensities of these PM Qa-SNAREs varied according to cell types in the root section, although SNAREs were uniformly localized to the PM of all types of cells in root so far examined. Intriguingly, the expression pattern of GFP–SYP123 is notably different from those of the other PM-resident Qa-SNARE molecules described above. No expression of GFP–SYP123 was observed at the root tip region (data not shown), but, after the root hair bulge rose at the differentiate region, GFP fluorescence was specifically observed in the root hair cells (Fig. 3D). The high-resolution expression analysis of root tissues also revealed that SYP123 is enriched in root hair cells (Brady et al. CITATION). Although the fluorescence signals of GFP–SYP123 continued to be visible in mature root hair cells, their intensity was significantly reduced (data not shown). No expression of GFP–SYP123 was observed in any other tissues, not even in non-root hair cells. It should be noted that once the root hair elongation began at the root hair cells, GFP fluorescence accumulated predominantly in the PM of the developing root hair region, especially at the tip of the root hair (Fig. 3A–C). 3D image construction using ReantLight software provided us with a clear view of the strong accumulation of GFP–SYP123 at the tip region of each root hair (Fig. 3D, E). This distribution pattern of SYP123 in root hair cells is obviously different from that of SYP132 (compare Fig. 3E with Fig. 1I or Supplementary Fig. S4). These data suggest that the expression of SYP123 is specific to root hair cells, and that it might be involved in root hair elongation.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Next, we observed the aerial part of each transgenic plant expressing GFP-fused PM Qa-SNAREs. GFP–SYP111 was specifically expressed and localized to the developing cell plates in the dividing cells during guard cell development, which suggests that SYP111 might also be involved in the formation of guard cells (Supplementary Fig. S5A). Both SYP121 and SYP122 were uniformly localized to the PM of epidermal cells in mature rosette leaves, even in the absence of any fungal infection (Supplementary Fig. S5D, E). SYP132 showed a strong steady-state expression in all rosette leaf cells throughout all stages of leaf development (Supplementary Fig. S5G). In the GFP–SYP123-expressing plant, on the other hand, clear GFP fluorescence was only observed in the epidermal cells of young rosette leaves (Supplementary Fig. S5F). The intensity of GFP–SYP123 fluorescence attenuated gradually during leaf development, and only faint signals of this SNARE remained in the mature epidermal cells of rosette leaves (data not shown). SYP121, SYP123 and SYP132 were also expressed in trichome cells of rosette leaves and the inflorescence stem. The GFP fluorescence of these GFP–SNAREs was observed uniformly on the PM of the cells (Supplementary Fig. S5H–J). In the inflorescence stem, expression of the SYP12 subgroup SNAREs (SYP121 and SYP123) was restricted to the epidermal cell layer, whereas the fluorescence of GFP–SYP132 was observed not only in epidermal cells but also in mesophyll cells (Supplementary Fig. S6A–C). No GFP fluorescence on the PM was ever observed in guard cells or trichome cells of wild-type Arabidopsis (Supplementary Fig. S7). In flower tissues, the expression of GFP–SYP121, GFP–SYP123 and GFP–SYP132 was detected in epidermal cells. Strong expression of GFP–SYP123 was observed in epidermal cells around the top of the stigma, while none was detected in the stigmatic papilla at flowering stage 11 (Supplementary Fig. S5K). In mature pollen grains, SYP132 was expressed with clear PM localization (Fig. 4G), although other SYP1s which were expressed in vegetative tissues were not expressed in pollen grains (data not shown). In contrast, SYP124, SYP125 and SYP131 were specifically expressed in the pollen grains (Fig. 4A, C, E). Intriguingly, these SNAREs did not show clear subcellular localization patterns on the PM. Instead, faint GFP signals were observed throughout the cytoplasm of pollen grains. We compared these GFP signals with the fluorescence pattern of a vacuolar membrane marker, monomeric red fluorescent protein (mRFP)–AtVam3 in pollen grains, and found that the fluorescence seems not to be localized to particular organelle membranes such as the vacuolar membrane (Fig. 4I, J). Intriguingly, the fluorescence of GFP–SYP124 and GFP–SYP125 localized to the tip region of pollen tubes during pollen tube elongation, not to the cytoplasm of pollen grains (Fig. 4B, D). The localizations of GFP–SYP124 and GFP–SYP125 in growing pollen tubes are a little bit different. Namely, GFP–SYP125 localized to the apical region of the pollen tube, while GFP–SYP124 localized to the subapical region of the tip. In contrast, the fluorescence of GFP–SYP131 and GFP–SYP132 localized uniformly to the PMs not only of pollen tubes but also of pollen grains (Fig. 4F, H).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We examined the expression patterns of GFP–SYP1s during embryonic development. Only SYP111 and SYP132 were expressed in embryos at any stage of development. GFP–SYP111 was highly expressed in leaf primordia cells (Fig. 5A), probably due to the high dividing frequency of the cells in this region. Strong GFP fluorescence was observed in the forming cell plates, while relatively weak fluorescence was observed in the mature PM (Fig. 5C). Meanwhile, GFP–SYP132 showed constitutive expression throughout the development of embryos, and was localized uniformly on the PM of all embryonic cells (Fig. 5E). No other SYP1s were expressed during the development of embryos (data not shown).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia (Col-0) seeds were surface sterilized and grown on Jiffy-7 peat pellets for appropriate periods under continuous light at 23°C. For the observation of roots, seeds were placed on MS–agar plates (2.1 g l–1 Murashige–Skoog salt, 1% sucrose, 1.5 mg l–1 thiamine, 2.5 mg l–1 nicotinic acid, 0.25 mg l–1 pyridoxine and 1.5% agar, pH 5.8). After vernalization for 4 d, seeds were germinated under the conditions described above, on vertically oriented plates. The translational fusions between GFP and the SYP1s were generated using the FTFLP method described by Tian et al. (CITATION) with some modifications. Briefly, for each SYP1, about 2,300 bp of an upstream region sequence with 5′-CACC, an sGFP(S65T) sequence with a GGSG linker, and an SYP1 open reading frame (ORF) followed by 1,000 bp of a downstream sequence were each amplified separately by PCR. Then the three DNA fragments were conjugated in order, using the triple-template PCR (TT-PCR) method to form a single DNA fragment which carries the SYP1 ORF with the GFP sequence at the 5′ end in tandem. In the case of mRFP–AtVam3, about 3,200 bp of an upstream region sequence followed by an mRFP sequence was used for its construction. Whole constructs were designed to express the SNARE molecule fused with fluorescent protein at the N-terminus. The fragment was subcloned into pENTR/D-TOPO (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA), sequence verified, and then transferred into a binary vector pGWB1 (Nakagawa et al. CITATION) according to the Gateway method. The sequences of primers used to generate constructs are listed in Supplementary Table S1. These constructs were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58 Rifr/pGV2260; subsequently, Arabidopsis wild-type plants (Col-0) were transformed by the floral dipping method (Clough and Bent CITATION). Screening of transgenic plants was performed on MS plates containing 50 μg ml–1 hygromycin. T2 lines which showed a segregation ratio of 3 : 1 for antibiotic resistance were used for further experiments. GFP fluorescence signals and differential interference contrast (DIC) images were obtained using the Nikon ECLIPSE E600 laser scanning microscope equipped with the C1si-ready confocal system (Nikon, Tokyo, Japan) and an argon laser. The endocytosis marker FM 4–64 (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR, USA) was treated for 1 h before observation at a final concentration of 30 μM, and 1 g l–1 of propidium iodide solution was used to stain the cell wall. Pollen germination was performed as described previously (Bovid and McCormick CITATION). The collected images were processed using Nikon EZ-C1 software. To examine the distribution of GFP–SYP1 in 3D, a 3D surface model of a root hair was reconstructed from a series of confocal images and the intensities of GFP signals were mapped on the reconstructed model. As a preprocessing step to reduce the noise, a Gaussian filter was applied using ImageJ 1.39J (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/;). The 3D reconstruction and intensity mapping was performed according to the technique employed by Kutsuna and Hasezawa (CITATION) using ReantLight software (http://hasezawa.ib.k.u-tokyo.ac.jp/zp/Kbi/ReantLight). Once the 3D models were reconstructed, 3D images were rendered interactively using ParaView 3.2.1 (http://www.paraview.org). Microarray expression analysis data for nine PM Qa-SNAREs were obtained using the Genevestigator V3 microarray database and analysis toolbox (Zimmermann et al. CITATION, Hruz et al. CITATION). The Genevestigator program is available on the web site at (https://www.genevestigator.ethz.ch/gv/index.jsp).
