!~ABS~! In plants, G proteins modulate signaling by the stress hormone, abscisic acid (ABA). We identify and characterize two novel Arabidopsis proteins that show homology to an orphan vertebrate GPCR (GPR89) and interact with the sole Arabidopsis G protein α subunit, GPA1, but also have intrinsic GTP-binding and GTPase activity. We have named these proteins G PCR- t ype G proteins (GTG1 and GTG2). Arabidopsis mutants lacking both GTG1 and GTG2 exhibit ABA hyposensitivity. GTG1 and GTG2 bind ABA specifically. The GDP-bound form of the GTGs exhibits greater ABA binding than the GTP-bound form, the GTPase activity of the GTGs is inhibited by GPA1, and gpa1 null mutants exhibit ABA-hypersensitive phenotypes. These results predict that, unusually, it is the GDP-bound, not the GTP-bound, form of the GTGs that actively relays the signal. We propose that GTG proteins function both as a new type of G protein and as a class of membrane-localized ABA receptors.
!~RES~! GTG1 (At1g64990) and GTG2 (At4g27630) show 90% amino acid sequence identity with each other and 45% identity and 68% similarity with GPR89. The similarity extends throughout the length of the proteins ( CITATION A). BLAST analysis identifies close homologs of these proteins in monocot and dicot plants, vertebrates, invertebrates, fungi, and unicellular organisms. The Arabidopsis GTG proteins show about 80% identity and 90% similarity at the amino acid level with their plant homologs, whereas 40%–45% sequence identity and 60%–70% sequence similarity are observed with vertebrate and nonvertebrate animals. Lower homology is observed with fungi and unicellular organisms (about 20% identity and 40% similarity). To assess the evolutionary relationship between these proteins we performed a phylogenetic analysis ( CITATION B). Plants form a separate clade from other organisms and the unicellular green alga Chlamydomonas groups with the other lower organisms, suggesting a possible sequence divergence when unicellular and multicellular organisms diverged. PROSITE motif analysis ( http://www.expasy.ch/prosite/ ) identified a conserved ATP-/GTP-binding region in GTG1 and GTG2 ( CITATION A, region 382–411 for GTG1). This motif is highly conserved in all the plant proteins; however the similarity with non-plant proteins is relatively low with little conservation of the first nine amino acids at the junction of the predicted 4 th intracellular loop. The polar charged glutamic acid at position 396 of GTG1 is conserved in all plant species but is replaced by a neutral, uncharged amide (glutamine) in the non-plant proteins. The large third intracellular loop of GTG1 and GTG2 also has a region showing similarity to the degenerate Ras GTPase-activating protein domain ([GSNA]-x-[LIVMF]-[FYCI]-[LIVMFY]-R-[LIVMFY](2)-[GACNS]-[PAV]-[AV]-[LIV]-[LIVM]-[SGANT]-P) with 68% and 62% similarity, respectively (amino acids 230–243 in GTG1). This region also shows high sequence conservation in all the plant proteins analyzed but is divergent elsewhere. Both GTG1 and GTG2 have nine predicted transmembrane domains, similar to human GPR89 ( CITATION C; CITATION available online). As anticipated, the FLAG epitope-tagged versions of both GTG1 and GTG2 proteins are detected mostly in the total microsomal fractions isolated from transgenic Arabidopsis plants ( CITATION D). Transient expression in Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts shows localization of GFP-tagged GTG1 and GTG2 at the cell periphery ( CITATION E). Purified recombinant GTG1, GTG2 ( CITATION ), and GPR89 proteins were analyzed for GTP-binding and GTPase activity using a real-time assay based on BODIPY-GTPγS or BODIPY-GTP, in which fluorescence increases upon binding of the fluorescently labeled nucleotide and decreases upon GTP hydrolysis ( CITATION ). We first validated this method using commercially available bovine G protein ( CITATION A and 2B). As expected, the bovine protein showed specific binding of a nonhydrolyzable GTP, BODIPY-GTPγS, that could be competed with unlabeled GTP or GDP but not with unlabeled ADP ( CITATION A). The bovine G protein also showed GTPase activity against BODIPY-GTP that was competed by unlabeled GDP or GTP but not by unlabeled ADP ( CITATION B). We then analyzed the Arabidopsis GTG proteins and human GPR89 for GTP binding and hydrolysis. GTG1 and GTG2 both show specific GTP binding that could be efficiently competed by nonfluorescent GDP or GTP but not by ADP ( CITATION C and 2E). Confirming binding specificity, both GTG proteins showed efficient binding with BODIPY-GDP, which could be competed with nonfluorescent GTP but not with nonfluorescent ATP. No binding with BODIPY-ATP or effect of ATP on BODIPY-GTP binding were observed ( CITATION ). GTP binding was also independently confirmed by [ 35 S]GTPγS-binding assays ( CITATION C). The GTG proteins also show GTPase activity ( CITATION D and 2F). We independently confirmed their GTPase activity by assaying the production of free Pi using the ENZchek phosphate assay kit ( CITATION ) and by quantification of [ 32 P]GTP hydrolysis using thin-layer chromatography ( CITATION B). The GTPase activity of the two GTG proteins is Mg 2+ dependent as the presence of 2 mM EDTA (free Mg 2+ concentration 0.8 mM) abolished GTPase activity ( CITATION D, 2F, and CITATION ), and it has a broad pH optimum ( CITATION ). Recombinant human GPR89 did not exhibit GTP binding or GTPase activity under our assay conditions ( CITATION D and CITATION ). Together, these assays firmly establish that the newly identified GTG1 and GTG2 proteins have specific GTP-binding and GTPase activity, hallmarks of signaling G proteins. To evaluate the in planta functions of the GTGs , we first analyzed their expression patterns. Quantitative PCR analysis showed widespread expression of both GTG genes ( CITATION A). These results were corroborated by GUS reporter gene analysis. GUS staining was observed in all plant organs analyzed: cotyledons, leaves, stems, roots, flowers, and guard cells ( CITATION B and 3C). GTG1 and GTG2 transcript levels did not change after treatment with ABA or different abiotic stresses ( CITATION D; analysis of AtGenExpress microarray data [not shown]). We pursued a reverse genetic approach to decipher GTG1 and GTG2 protein functions in planta. Single T-DNA insertional mutants ( gtg1-1 and gtg2-1 ) were isolated for each gene ( CITATION A). RT-PCR using the primer combinations 1P1+1P4 and 2P4+2P5, which flank the insertion sites, confirmed the absence of full-length transcripts ( CITATION B, 4C, and CITATION ). The single mutants were used to generate the gtg1-1 gtg2-1 double mutant (henceforth referred to as gtg1 gtg2 ). PCR with primer combinations P1+P2 and P3+P4 revealed that reduced levels of a truncated transcript could be detected for both GTG1 and GTG2 upstream of the insertion ( CITATION ). To confirm that phenotypes of the gtg1 gtg2 mutants are indeed due to GTG mutation, the double mutant was complemented with full-length GTG1 or GTG2 genes. For each gene, complementation was performed with two types of constructs: N- or C-terminal fusions with the FLAG epitope tag. Multiple transgenic lines were obtained for each construct and showed different levels of fusion protein expression (e.g., CITATION D). For each gene, two independent lines of each of N- and C-terminal FLAG fusions (four lines total per gene), one showing moderate expression (e.g., #1 in upper and lower panels of CITATION D) and the other showing higher expression (e.g., #4 in upper and lower panels of CITATION D) were analyzed (see also CITATION ). While the phenotypes of single gtg mutant plants were indistinguishable from wild-type, the double gtg1 gtg2 mutant exhibited significant differences, related mostly to ABA signaling, both at early and adult stages. In all assays, the gtg1 gtg2 mutant phenotype could be fully complemented with introduction of either the GTG1 or the GTG2 genes, implying redundancy in GTG function. No complementation was observed with the empty vector. Complemented lines with either N- or C-terminal FLAG epitope fusions showed similar results (Figures CITATION D, CITATION , and CITATION ). The gtg1 gtg2 mutant showed hyposensitivity to ABA in seed germination and post-germination growth assays. On 1 μM ABA, only about 50% of the wild-type Wassilewskija (Ws) seeds germinated whereas the germination percentage of gtg1 gtg2 mutant seeds was ∼80% ( CITATION A). About 40% germination was obtained with 2 μM ABA for gtg1 gtg2 mutants, an ABA concentration at which no wild-type seeds germinated ( CITATION A and CITATION ). The effect of ABA on post-germination growth of seedlings was analyzed by scoring percentages of germinated seeds forming green cotyledons at 1 μM ABA ( CITATION ). All gtg1 gtg2 seedlings formed green cotyledons at this ABA concentration, whereas only about 60% of Ws or gtg single mutants developed green cotyledons ( CITATION B). The same trend was obtained for inhibition of primary root length by ABA. The gtg1 gtg2 mutants showed less sensitivity to ABA, with only ∼15% inhibition in root length at 20 μM ABA, a concentration sufficient to cause almost 40% inhibition of root length in Ws, single gtg1 or gtg2 mutants, and gtg1 gtg2 mutant complemented with either GTG1 or GTG2 ( CITATION E and CITATION ). ABA-induced gene expression was also significantly compromised in the gtg1 gtg2 mutants, as determined by quantification of the transcript levels of a number of ABA-induced marker genes ( CITATION F and CITATION ). For ABA induction of stomatal closure the gtg1 gtg2 mutant plants were significantly ABA hyposensitive, exhibiting only a 17% decrease in stomatal aperture as compared to an ∼40% decrease in wild-type plants ( CITATION G and CITATION ); however, ABA inhibition of stomatal opening remained similar to wild-type ( CITATION H and CITATION ). The adult gtg1 gtg2 mutant plants are smaller, have a mildly stressed appearance, and flower earlier than wild-type plants ( CITATION C and 5D). The endogenous ABA level in the double mutant plants is comparable to that of wild-type ( CITATION ). We also analyzed the transcript levels of other reported ABA receptors in the gtg1 gtg2 mutant, to evaluate the possibility that the ABA hyposensitive phenotypes are due to lower expression of those receptors. No differences in transcript levels of FCA, CHLH, or GCR2 could be detected in the gtg1 gtg2 mutants as compared to wild-type ( CITATION ). The GTG1 and GTG2 proteins were initially identified based on their similarity to an orphan GPCR. One of the signature properties of GPCRs is their interaction with G proteins; therefore, we evaluated the interaction of GTG proteins with the sole canonical Arabidopsis Gα subunit, GPA1. Both GTG1 and GTG2 interacted with GPA1 in the split ubiquitin system, designed to assess interaction of membrane proteins ( CITATION ). Interaction of GPA1-CUb with GTG1- and GTG2-NUb fusions (in both orientations) was observed ( CITATION A) under very high-stringency conditions (1 mM methionine). Additional results and controls are presented in CITATION . We verified this interaction by coimmunoprecipitation. Total microsomal or soluble fractions from wild-type or gtg1 gtg2 mutant plants expressing FLAG-tagged GTG1 or GTG2 were immunoprecipitated with FLAG antibodies and probed with GPA1 antibodies. The GPA1 protein could be detected in the total microsomal fractions but not in the soluble fractions nor in the immunoprecipitated proteins from wild-type plants ( CITATION B). Since GTG1 and GTG2 have G protein activity of their own, we elucidated whether interaction with GPA1 affects the GTP-binding and GTPase activity of the GTG proteins. The GTP-binding activity of the GTG1 and GTG2 proteins is accelerated by GPA1 and, remarkably, their GTPase activity is strongly inhibited ( CITATION C). To confirm that the reduced total GTPase activity is an effect of GPA1 on GTG activity and not vice versa, we used a mutant form of GPA1 (Q222L GPA1), predicted to have normal GTP binding but lack GTPase activity due to the mutation of its conserved GTPase domain ( CITATION ). Our assays with BODIPY-GTP and α 32 P-GTP experimentally demonstrate that Q222L GPA1 indeed lacks GTPase activity, and therefore we designate it as constitutively active GPA1 (CaGPA1) ( CITATION D and CITATION B). Remarkably, the presence of CaGPA1 blocks the GTPase activity of the GTG proteins, confirming that the GTP-bound form of GPA1 inhibits the GTPase activity of GTG proteins. The G protein activity and GPCR-like topology of GTG proteins along with the significantly ABA hyposensitive phenotypes of gtg1 gtg2 mutants led to the intriguing possibility that the GTG proteins constitute all or part of an unusual class of G protein-coupled ABA perception complex(es). To test this possibility, we carried out direct ABA-binding assays with 3 H-ABA and purified recombinant GTG proteins. Both GTG1 and GTG2 proteins showed saturable and specific 3 H-ABA binding, with apparent K D (dissociation constant) values of 35.8 nM and 41.2 nM, respectively ( CITATION A). GTG proteins did not bind 3 H-benzoic acid, another weak acid used as a negative control. The ABA binding of GTG1 and GTG2 could be effectively competed with unlabeled biologically active (±)-ABA, but not by the biologically inactive (−)-ABA isomer ( CITATION B). Following the implication that the GTG proteins do not bind the (−)-ABA isomer, the above K D values would then be halved. No 3 H-ABA binding was observed when BSA or GPA1 was used as a control for nonspecific binding ( CITATION A and 7C). AtRGS1, which, like the GTG proteins, is a predicted multitransmembrane domain protein ( CITATION ), was evaluated as a further control for nonspecific binding. In contrast to the GTG proteins, AtRGS1 showed low levels of nonspecific ABA binding (data not shown). Both GTG1 and GTG2 showed more efficient ABA binding in the presence of GDP, as compared to binding in the presence of GTP or ATP ( CITATION C). The presence of GPA1 (in the presence of GDP; thus presumably GDP-bound) did not affect ABA binding ( CITATION D). GPA1 alone showed no ABA binding ( CITATION D). Additionally, the presence of EDTA, which inhibits GTPase activity of the GTG proteins ( CITATION D and 2F), also abolished ABA binding ( CITATION D), consistent with the observation that GTP-GTG proteins bind ABA more weakly than GDP-GTG proteins ( CITATION C). Heat-denatured GTG proteins do not show ABA binding ( CITATION D). These results thus substantiate the specific ABA binding by GTG proteins. The observed stoichiometry of binding is low in these experiments (∼0.01 mol ABA/mol protein) probably due to nonoptimal conditions of protein purification, solubilization, and renaturation. Since the expression and purification of GPCRs (and proteins with multitransmembrane domains in general) in heterologous systems remains one of the biggest challenges in the field ( CITATION ), further experiments are needed to find the optimal system for expression and purification of active GTG proteins. Optimized conditions, especially with respect to the lipid environment, detergent concentration plus other renaturation conditions, and posttranslational modifications will help in more accurate determination of the stoichiometry.
!~MM~! All mutants are in the Arabidopsis Ws ecotype. Seed germination and plant growth conditions were according to CITATION unless stated otherwise. The gtg1 and gtg2 insertion mutants were isolated by screening the Basta population of T-DNA insertion lines ( CITATION ). For complementation of double gtg1 gtg2 mutants, full-length GTG1 and GTG2 cDNAs were cloned into pGW11 and pGW12 binary vectors to generate C- and N-terminal FLAG-tagged fusions, respectively. The 1.32 kb intergenic genomic sequence and a 3.12 kb genomic sequence, for GTG1 and GTG2 respectively, located upstream of the translational start site were identified as promoter regions in this study and were cloned into pGW3 vectors to produce GTG promoter::GUS fusion constructs. Transgenic plants were generated via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation and selected on 0.5 × MS media containing kanamycin/hygromycin. GUS staining was performed according to CITATION . Full-length GTG1 , GTG2 , and GPA1 were amplified from Arabidopsis seedling cDNA and cloned into the pENTR11 vector (Invitrogen, CA, USA). The clones were transferred into the pDEST17 destination vector containing the His-epitope tag (Invitrogen) by LR recombination reaction as per the manufacturer's instructions. The constructs were transformed into BL21-AI cells (Invitrogen). Protein expression was induced with 0.2% arabinose for 3 hr at 37°C. GPA1 and CaGPA1 were purified using the B-PER 6×His fusion protein purification kit (Pierce, IL, USA) following the manufacturer's instructions. GTG1, GTG2, and GPR89 proteins were purified using the same system with the following modifications. The cells were resuspended in 10 ml of B-PER reagent containing 1% Tween 20, 0.25% NP-40, and EDTA-free complete protease inhibitors (Roche, IN, USA). Cleared supernatant obtained after centrifugation was loaded on a Ni-NTA column and the column was washed with wash buffer 1 (50 mM Tris, 200 mM NaCl, 15 mM imidazol, 10% glycerol, 0.25% Tween 20, pH 7.5) five times with three column volumes each and with wash buffer 2 (50 mM Tris-HCl, 300 mM NaCl, 30 mM imidazol, 12% glycerol, 0.25% Tween 20, pH 7.0) three times with three column volumes each. The proteins were eluted with 5 ml of elution buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl, 300 mM NaCl, 300 mM imidazol, 12% glycerol, 100 ng/ml unsaturated phosphatidyl choline [UPC, Avanti Polar Lipids] 0.1% Tween 20 and 1 × EDTA-free complete protease inhibitor) in 1 ml fractions. The fractions were further loaded on the Extracti-Gel D detergent removing gel column (Pierce) and the proteins were purified according to manufacturer's instructions (see CITATION ). GTP binding and hydrolysis were performed using BODIPY-GTPγS or BODIPY-GTP FL (Invitrogen). Assays were performed at 25°C in 200 μl reaction mix in BODIPY assay buffer (Tris, 20 mM, pH 8.0, and MgCl 2, 10 mM) according to CITATION . Additional components (EDTA 2 mM, GTP 5 μM, GDP 5 μM, or ADP 5 μM) were added before starting the reaction by addition of BODIPY-GTPγS or BODIPY-GTP FL. Fluorescence was recorded every 30 s for up to 60 min using a fluorescence microplate reader (FLx800; Biotek Instruments, Inc., Vermont, USA) at λ ex 485, λ em 530 nm. Assays of [ 35 S]-GTPγS binding and TLC measurements of GTPase activity were performed after CITATION . Identical buffers were used for GTG proteins and GPA1 (see CITATION ). RNA isolation, cDNA synthesis, RT-PCR, and real-time quantitative PCR (Q-PCR) were as in CITATION . For gene expression analysis under abiotic stress treatments, RNA was isolated from 7-day-old stress-treated seedlings. To confirm the absence of full-length GTG1 and GTG2 transcripts in gtg1-1 , gtg2-1 single, and gtg1 gtg2 mutants, cDNA was synthesized from RNA isolated from 2-week-old seedlings. RT-PCR or Q-PCR was performed using specific primers (cf. CITATION A; CITATION ). To confirm expression of GTG-FLAG or FLAG-GTG fusion proteins in the complemented gtg1 gtg2 mutants, western blotting with total microsomal protein fractions was performed with anti-FLAG antibodies ( CITATION ). Interaction assays with GPA1, GTG1, and GTG2 were performed using the split ubiquitin assay ( CITATION ). Briefly, full-length GTG1 , GTG2 , and GPA1 were cloned in CUb, NUbG, and NUb WT vectors by mating-based in vivo recombination cloning. Interaction was determined by growth on minimal media lacking Leu, Trp, His, and Ade but containing 1 mM methionine and also by X-gal filter assay ( CITATION ). The Catch and Release system (Upstate, VA, USA) was used for in planta immunoprecipitation assays. Twelve-day-old seedlings of Ws, gtg1 gtg2 , gtg1 gtg2:GTG1-FLAG , and gtg1 gtg2:GTG2-FLAG were used as the source of proteins. Five hundred micrograms of total microsomal proteins, 3 μg FLAG antibodies, and 10 μl of affinity ligand were added to the column and incubated at 4°C overnight. The washing and elution of the bound proteins were done according to the manufacturer's instructions. Eluted proteins were run on SDS-PAGE, immunoblotted, and probed with GPA1 antibodies (see CITATION for details). Purified GTG1 or GTG2 (0.4 μg) or GPA1 or BSA (EMD Biosciences, CA, USA) proteins (2 μg each) were resuspended in an ABA-binding buffer (Tris 50 mM, NaCl 50 mM, MgCl 2 10 mM, glycerol 5%, BSA 0.025%, unsaturated phosphatidyl choline 100 ng/ml, Tween-20 0.1%, and complete protease inhibitor [Roche Applied Sciences, IN, USA] 1×) in a 50 μl reaction mix. 3 H-labeled ABA (Amersham, UK) was added to start the reaction. This ABA was provided from Amersham as (±)-ABA with a specific activity of 46.0 Ci/mmol or 200 μCi/ml, which corresponds to a stock concentration of ∼4 μM. The final concentration used was 100 nM unless otherwise noted. Tubes were incubated on ice for 1 hr. The reaction mixture was then filtered through GF/C membranes (Whatman Inc. NJ, USA), filters were washed with 5 ml of binding buffer each, and bound radioactivity was measured using a liquid scintillation counter in Optiphase HiSafe 3 (Perkin Elmer, MA, USA). Binding constants were calculated using GraphPad Prism (GraphPad Software Inc.). For competition studies, binding assays were performed in the presence of different amounts of cold (±)-ABA (AG Scientific, CA, USA) or (−)-ABA (Sigma Chemical Co., MO, USA). EDTA, GDP, GTP, or ATP were added to the reaction mix to study the effects of these compounds on ABA binding. Binding assays with 3 H-labeled benzoic acid or BSA were performed under identical conditions. Seed germination (3-month-old seeds; comparable results were obtained with other seed ages [not shown]) and root growth assays were performed as in CITATION ; see also CITATION ). The effect of ABA on post-germination growth of seedlings was recorded as in CITATION . For ABA-induced gene expression analysis, 7-day-old Ws and gtg1 gtg2 mutants were treated with 50 μM ABA for 1 hr. Stomatal aperture assays were as in CITATION except that peeled epidermes were imaged (400× total magnification) using a digital camera (Nikon Coolpix 990). Apertures were measured (at least 30 images per sample and 10 apertures per image) using Image J (NIH). The experiments were performed blind. For flowering time estimation, wild-type and mutant plants were grown side by side in 16 hr light/8 hr darkness (light intensity 120·μmol·m −2 s −1 ). GTG1 and GTG2 were cloned into a modified pEarleyGate 102 vector. GTG1 , GTG2 , or vector DNA was isolated using an Endo free plasmid mini kit (QIAGEN, CA) and was transfected to Arabidopsis mesophyll cell protoplasts using a modified poly ethylene glycol method ( CITATION ). Transfected protoplasts were incubated at 22°C for 18–24 hr in darkness followed by localization using an Olympus FV1000 Laser Scanning Confocal Microscope (see CITATION for details).
