!~ABS~!  Profilin is an actin‐binding protein that shows complex effects on the dynamics of the actin cytoskeleton. There are five profilin isoforms in Arabidopsis thaliana L. However, it is still an open question whether these isoforms are functionally different. In the present study, two profilin isoforms from Arabidopsis, PRF1 and PRF2 were fused with green fluorescent protein (GFP) tag and expressed in Escherichia coli and A. thaliana in order to compare their biochemical properties in vitro and their cellular distributions in vivo. Biochemical analysis revealed that fusion proteins of GFP‐PRF1 and GFP‐PRF2 can bind to poly‐L‐proline and G‐actin showing remarkable differences. GFP‐PRF1 has much higher affinities for both poly‐L‐proline and G‐actin compared with GFP‐PRF2. Observations of living cells in stable transgenic A. thaliana lines revealed that 35S::GFP‐PRF1 formed a filamentous network, while 35S::GFP‐PRF2 formed polygonal meshes. Results from the treatment with latrunculin A and a subsequent recovery experiment indicated that filamentous alignment of GFP‐PRF1 was likely associated with actin filaments. However, GFP‐PRF2 localized to polygonal meshes resembling the endoplasmic reticulum. Our results provide evidence that Arabidopsis profilin isoforms PRF1 and PRF2 have different biochemical affinities for poly‐L‐proline and G‐actin, and show distinctive localizations in living cells. These data suggest that PRF1 and PRF2 are functionally different isoforms. 
!~RES~! In order to characterize the two profilin isoforms, PRF1 and PRF2 from Arabidopsis, fusion constructs of PRF1 and PRF2 tagged with GFP were cloned into plasmid pET‐30a and expressed in E. coli strain BL21 (DE3) to obtain the fusion proteins and analyze their biochemical properties. The fusion proteins of GFP‐PRF1 and GFP‐PRF2 were purified on PLP‐Sepharose (PLP: poly‐L‐proline) column. Different elution buffers were applied for the two fusion proteins. The commonly used elution buffer (buffer I plus 3 mol/L urea) was used for the purification of GFP‐PRF1, but replaced by buffer I for the purification of GFP‐PRF2 fusion protein because of the weaker association of GFP‐PRF2 to PLP. High purity of fusion GFP‐PRF1 and GFP‐PRF2 were obtained after the purification (Figure 1).  [[FIGURE]] Before transformation of fusion genes 35S::GFP‐PRF1 and 35S::GFP‐PRF2 into Arabidopsis, we examined the binding activities of the two fusion proteins to determine whether the properties of these two profilin isoforms are affected by the GFP tag, and if there are any differences in binding activities between the two profilin isoforms.  Binding and depolymerization assays were carried out to analyze the binding activities of the two fusion proteins to poly‐L‐proline and G‐actin. The Kd values of GFP‐PRF1 and GFP‐PRF2 for PLP were determined by Scatchard plot analysis and also by analysis of tryptophan fluorescence enhancement. The Kd values determined by Scatchard plot analysis for GFP‐PRF1 and GFP‐PRF2 were 25.8 ± 6.5 μmol/L and 145.1 ± 27.6 μmol/L, respectively. The values were quite different from those found with fluorescence enhancement, 697.8 ± 79.4 μmol/L and 2 236.3 ± 414.1 μmol/L. The differences may come from different methods and this is consistent with the result reported by Gibbon et al. (1997). But, no matter which measurement method was used, the Kd value of GFP‐PRF1 for PLP was significantly lower than that of GFP‐PRF2, indicating that GFP‐PRF1 had much higher affinity for PLP than GFP‐PRF2 (Figure 2A). To test if GFP‐PRF1 and GFP‐PRF2 have different affinities for G‐actin, the Kd values of each fusion proteins for monomeric rabbit skeletal muscle G‐actin was calculated by measuring the shift of critical concentration (Cc) in the steady state for actin assembly in the presence of GFP‐PRF1 or GFP‐PRF2, respectively. Light scattering measurement results showed that the average apparent Kd value from several experiments was 0.97 μmol/L for GFP‐PRF1, and 5.0 μmol/L for GFP‐PRF2 (Figure 2B). The value for GFP‐PRF1 was significantly lower than that for GFP‐PRF2. Therefore, although both fusion proteins, GFP‐PRF1 and GFP‐PRF2 have the ability of binding G‐actin and GFP‐PRF1 has a much higher affinity than GFP‐PRF2. In addition, the binding affinities of non‐fusion PRF1 and PRF2 to both PLP and actin was analyzed to find out if fusion of GFP affects the binding of the proteins. As shown in the supporting information, the fusion of GFP slightly changed their binding affinities to PLP (Figure S1) and actin (Figure S2), but the differences between PRF1 and PRF2 were not changed dramatically. Therefore, the expression of GFP‐PRF1 and GFP‐PRF2 in Arabidopsis cells is feasible for indicating the localization of these two profilin isoforms in living cells.  [[FIGURE]] The differences in binding activities between GFP‐PRF1 and GFP‐PRF2 imply that these two profilin isoforms may have different functions in cells. To further address this question, we generated transgenic lines of Arabidopsis overexpressing GFP‐PRF1 or GFP‐PRF2, respectively.  In order to reveal the localizations of these two profilin isoforms in living cells, various types of cells of gfp‐prf1 and gfp‐prf2 transgenic Arabidopsis were observed by using confocal laser scanning microscopy. The observation revealed that the distributions of GFP‐PRF1 and GFP‐PRF2 fusion proteins in Arabidopsis cells were different.   Figure 3 shows the localizations of GFP‐PRF1 and GFP‐PRF2 fusion proteins in leaf epidermal cells (Figure 3A,D), trichomes (Figure 3B,E), and stem epidermal cells (Figure 3C,F), respectively. In these various types of Arabidopsis cells, GFP‐PRF1 fusion protein exhibited filamentous distribution (Figure 3A–C), but GFP‐PRF2 formed polygonal meshes (Figure 3D–F). Both fusion proteins were associated with moving organelles resembling vesicles. The filamentous distribution of GFP‐PRF1 suggested that GFP‐PRF1 might associate with cytoplasmic actin filaments, while the polygonal localization of GFP‐PRF2 imitated a structure of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) (Knebel et al. 1990).  [[FIGURE]] In order to investigate whether the filamentous or polygonal localization of GFP‐PRF1 and GFP‐PRF2 is dependent on the actin cytoskeleton, we treated the transgenic Arabidopsis leaves expressing GFP‐PRF1 or GFP‐PRF2 with latrunculin A (LAT A), an actin drug preventing actin polymerization, thus disrupting the actin cytoskeleton. Arabidopsis transformed with 35S::GFP‐mTalin was used as a reporter construct for visualization of actin filaments (Figure 4A).  [[FIGURE]] According to the observations made on the GFP‐mTalin line of Arabidospis, treatment with 25 μmol/L LAT A for 2 h resulted in depolymerization of the majority of the actin cytoskeleton, while only some actin speckles were left (Figure 4B). Before the LAT A treatment, GFP‐PRF1 in cells showed a filamentous distribution pattern (Figure 4D), which was similar to the cytoplasmic actin cytoskeleton. However, at the same conditions of LAT A treatment as in the GFP‐mTalin transgenic Arabidopsis line, filamentous GFP‐PRF1 dispersed into speckles in cells of the GFP‐PRF1 transgenic line (Figure 4E). Upon removal of LAT A, new actin filaments were formed over a period of 1 h, as visualized by the GFP‐mTalin reporter construct (Figure 4C). Correspondingly, filamentous GFP‐PRF1 organization was also partially recovered (Figure 4F), suggesting that filamentous localization of GFP‐PRF1 is associated with the cytoplasmic actin filaments.  On the other hand, GFP‐PRF2 formed polygonal meshes in leaf epidermal cells of the GFP‐PRF2 transgenic Arabidopsis line (Figure 4G). Treatment with LAT A at the same conditions increased GFP‐PRF2 localization to meshes and induced formation of lamellar sheets (Figure 4H). Such rearrangement is very similar to the previously reported ER pattern in plant cells (Knebel et al. 1990). GFP‐PRF2 aggregated further to surround organelles after the removal of LAT A, and the polygonal GFP‐PRF2 distribution was always persistent (Figure 4I).  Our experimental results suggested that profilin1 is likely associated with cytoplasmic actin filaments, while profilin2 is presumably associated with the ER in living leaf epidermal cells of Arabidopsis. 
!~MM~! For the expression of the fusion proteins of GFP‐PRF1/PRF2 in bacterium, the plasmids containing PRF1 and PRF2 were digested to obtain the full‐length cDNA of PRF1/PRF2 (gi: 9965569/1353771). The coding region of GFP cDNA and, subsequently, a linker of five Glycins, then the coding region of PRF1/PRF2 cDNA were cloned into pET‐30a. For the Arabidopsis thaliana L. transformation, the coding region of GFP cDNA and, subsequently, a linker of five Glycins, then the coding region of PRF1/PRF2 cDNA were cloned downstream of 35S promoter in pBI121/pBin 19.   A. thaliana ecotype Columbia plants were vacuum infiltrated with Agrobacterium with plasmids containing GFP‐PRF1, GFP‐PRF2 and GFP‐mTalin, respectively. T1 seeds were vernalized on Murashing and Skoog (MS) medium containing 50 mg/L kanamycin for 72 h at 4 °C, then the plates were kept at 22 °C and the seedlings were grown with continuous light of 30 to 40 μmol photons/m2 per s. After 7 d, the seedlings were transferred to MS medium without kanamycin and grown in the same conditions. Then plants with a pair of cotyledons were potted in soil and transferred to growth chambers and grown at 22 °C exposed to a light : dark cycle of 14:10 h.  The fusion proteins, GFP‐PRF1 and GFP‐PRF2 were expressed in E. coli BL21 (DE3). Briefly, the bacteria were transformed with the plasmids and grown in 50 mg/L kanamycin at 37 °C. At OD600= 0.5, protein expression was induced at 20 °C with 1 mmol/L isopropyl β‐D–thiogalactoside. After 10 h inducement, bacteria cells were harvested by centrifugation and lysed in buffer I (150 mmol/L KCl, 20 mmol/L Tris, 0.2 mmol/L DTT, pH 7.5). The supernatant was collected and applied to a poly‐L‐proline‐affinity column (according to Ren et al. 1997). For GFP‐PRF1 purification, the column was washed with three volumes of buffer I, with a additional wash of buffer I plus 3 mol/L urea before the elution with buffer I plus 7 mol/L urea. The protein‐containing fractions were pooled and dialyzed against two changes of buffer I. For GFP‐PRF2 purification, the step of buffer I plus 3 mol/L urea was omitted and replaced with another buffer I wash.  Purified GFP‐profilin fusion proteins were aliquoted and stored in liquid nitrogen for future use.  Different methods were used for calculating the Kd values for GFP‐PRF1 and GFP‐PRF2 binding to PLP. For Scatchard plot analysis, varying concentrations of GFP‐PRF1 and GFP‐PRF2 were added into 5 μL of PLP‐Sepharose pre‐equilibrated with buffer I in an eppendorf tube, respectively, and incubated at 4 °C for 30 min. After centrifugation at 3 500g, the protein concentration of supernatants was determined with the Bio‐Rad Protein Assay Kit II (Bio‐Rad Laboratories, Hercules, CA, USA), with bovine serum albumin (BSA) as standard. The protein binding to PLP was calculated and the Kd values of GFP‐PRF1 and GFP‐PRF2 for PLP were determined using GraphPad Prism 4 Demo software. The Kd is derived from the slope of the plot of [Cbp]/[Cfp] versus [Cbp], the slope of the regression line being equal to −1/Kd. Cbp: Concentration of GFP‐PRF1/GFP‐PRF2 binding to PLP. Cfp: Concentration of free GFP‐PRF1/GFP‐PRF2. As for tryptophan fluorescence quenching analysis, the Kd values were determined by the method reported by Gibbon et al. (1997).  The ability of GFP‐PRF1 and GFP‐PRF2 to sequester rabbit muscle G‐actin under polymerizing conditions was determined by the verified method of Kovar et al. (2000). A total of 3.0 μmol/L GFP‐PRF1 and GFP‐PRF2 were incubated with five concentrations of rabbit muscle G‐actin (0.5, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, 3.0 μmol/L) in G buffer (5 mmol/L Tris, 0.2 mmol/L CaCl2, 0.01% NaN3, 0.2 mmol/L ATP, 0.5 mmol/L dithiothreitol (DTT), pH 8), respectively. At time zero, ATP, MgCl2 and KCl were added to the final concentrations of 2 mmol/L, 5 mmol/L and 100 mmol/L, respectively. After 5 h at room temperature, the steady state extent of polymerization was measured by 90° light scattering of 450 nm light with fluorescence spectrophotometer (Fluoro MAX‐II, Edison, NJ, USA). The Cc values for actin were determined by plotting the difference between the final and initial light scattering values for each sample versus actin concentrations. The reading from the same concentration of G‐actin added with the same volume of buffer I was taken as a control. Kd values were calculated according to Kovar et al. 2000.  Leaves of transgenic plants were cut into sections less than 3 mm, then incubated with 25 μmol/L latrunculin A (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR, USA) in PEM (100 mmol/L Pipes, pH 6.9, 10 mmol/L MgSO4, 10 mmol/L ethylene glycol‐bis‐(β‐aminoethyl ether)‐N,N,N,N‐tetraacetic acid (EGTA)) solution for 2 h. Recovery from the drug will be observed 1 h after washing with PEM buffer three times (15 min each time) to remove latrunculin A. An equivalent concentration of dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) (2%) in the solution was taken as a control.  The cells expressing GFP‐fusion proteins were imaged with a confocal laser scanning microscope (MRC 1024, Bio‐Rad) using illumination of the 488 nm line of the Kr/Ar laser. Optical sections in 0.2–0.8 μm steps were collected and projected with Lasersharp software (Bio‐Rad).  (Handling editor: Bo Liu)
