!~ABS~!  Arabidopsis AtMRB1 is predicted to encode a novel protein of 432 amino acid residues in length, with four putative trans‐membrane domains. In the present study, characterization of AtMRB1 is conducted. Green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein assay showed that AtMRB1 was located in the plasma membrane. Transgenic lines overexpressing AtMRB1 driven by a CaMV 35S promoter were generated. Statistic analysis showed that, during the seedling stage, the organ sizes of the transgenic lines including hypocotyl length, root length and root weight were significantly larger than those of the wild type plants under both light and dark conditions. In the adult plant stage, the AtMRB1 overexpressor plants were found to have larger organ sizes in terms of leaf length and width, and increased number of cauline leaves and branches when bolting. Further observation indicated that the larger leaf size phenotype was due to a larger number of mesophyll cells, the size of which was not altered. Quantitative real‐time polymerase chain reaction analysis showed that the transcription of ANT, ROT3 and GRF5 were upregulated in the AtMRB1‐overexpressor plants. These data suggest that AtMRB1 is possibly a positive regulator of organ size development in Arabidopsis, mainly through cell number control. 
!~RES~! Bioinformatics analysis showed that AtMRB1 was predicted to encode a functionally unknown protein of 432 amino acid residues in length, with four distinct trans‐membrane domains (Figure 1A) (http://genome.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TMHMM). AtMRB1 belongs to a gene family with six members in Arabidopsis. The sequence identity among these proteins ranged from 25% to 72% (Figure 1B). A database search did not find homologous sequences in organisms other than plants, suggesting that AtMRB1 possibly encodes a plant‐specific plasma membrane protein in Arabidopsis.  [[FIGURE]] We transformed wild type Arabidopsis thaliana with the AtMRB1‐green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein construct driven by a CaMV 35S promoter and successfully obtained 35 independent transgenic lines used to study the subcellular localization using Confocal Imaging. As shown in Figure 2, green fluorescence was found in the membrane of the cells in undifferentiated cells in the root tip extension zone of AtMRB1‐GFP transgenic plants (Figure 2A), different from the ubiquitous expression pattern of GFP in 35S::GFP plants (Figure 2B). This suggests that AtMRB1 protein mainly localizes in the plasma membrane in root tip cells, which was also supported by transient expression assay (data not shown).  [[FIGURE]] To analyze the expression pattern of AtMRB1, we amplified a 1.8 kb long fragment from the AtMRB1 promoter and fused it to β‐glucuronidase (GUS) prior to transformation into wild type Arabidopsis. Analysis of the transgenic plants showed that the expression of AtMRB1 was mainly focused in young leaves, hypocotyl, and in the roots of the seedlings (Figure 3A–C). In adult plants, AtMRB1 transcripts were mainly concentrated in the roots and flower organs, including young upper stems, shoot tips and shoot apical meristems (SAM), and flower buds (Figure 3D–M).  [[FIGURE]] To characterize the biological function of AtMRB1, transgenic plants transformed with the AtMRB1 overexpression construct driven by a CaMV 35S promoter (Figure 4A) were generated (Figure 4B). Semi‐quantitative RT‐PCR analysis showed that the transcript level of AtMRB1 was elevated in three overexpressor lines OE‐7, OE‐8 and OE‐9, among which OE‐9 had the highest (Figure 4C). T4 homozygous transgenic plants were used for further analysis.  [[FIGURE]] Compared with the wild type, AtMRB1 overexpressor plants were larger. Statistic analysis showed that all three overexpressor lines exhibited enlarged organ sizes including increased plant height, increased number of rosette leaves, and increased branch number. For example, the average plant height was 40 cm for OE‐9 plants in comparison with 25 cm for wild type at the same developmental stage (Figure 4D). Analysis showed that the phenotypes in the three overexpressor lines were correlated with the expression level of AtMRB1.  We also examined the root growth of the overexpressor lines (Figure 4E). Under normal growth conditions, root length differences were observed between OE‐9 and wild type after 2 weeks growth on 0.5×Murashige and Skoog (1962) (MS) medium. The average root length of wild type was 15 mm, whereas that of OE‐9 was 32 mm (P > 0.01). OE‐9 seedlings also grew faster than the wild type on 0.5× MS medium, resulting in heavier root fresh weight, and longer root and hypocotyls (Figure 4E).  In addition to vegetative organs, we also found that the size of OE‐9 seeds was bigger than that of the wild type. The seed diameter of OE‐9 (449 ± 8 μm) was 30% bigger than that of the wild type (350 ± 34 μm) (Figure 4F).  To elucidate the mechanism of organ size enlargement in the AtMRB1 overexpressor lines, cell number and area on the fifth rosette leaf surface of 30‐day‐old AtMRB1 overexpressor plants were examined using scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The result showed that, on abaxial surface, the leaf surface area and the cell numbers in the AtMRB1 overexpressor plants and wild type, respectively, increased from 4 327 ± 565 and 22 719 ± 1 049 to 7 427 ± 689 and 56 327 ± 2 036, respectively (Figure 5A). These data suggest that, although the cell size is altered, cell number increase mainly accounts for the leaf surface area increase.  [[FIGURE]] We then examined the expression level of some important leaf growth‐related genes in the AtMRB1 overexpressor plants by quantitative real‐time PCR analysis. The results showed that, compared with wild type, the transcription level of ANT (Mizukami and Fischer 2000), ROT3 (Tsuge et al. 1996) and GRF5 (Horiguchi et al. 2005) were significantly upregulated, whereas that of BB (Big Brother) (Disch et al. 2006) and AtGIF (Kim and Kende 2004) were not much altered (Figure 5B). 
!~MM~!  Arabidopsis thaliana (Columbia ecotype) was used for all experiments described unless otherwise indicated. Seed germination and seedling growth were carried out as described previously (Qin et al. 2005). Measurement of hypocotyl length was carried out as described previously (Kang et al. 2000).  BLAST search against the GenBank database (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/BLAST/) was conducted. PHYLIP package (Felsenstein 1989) was used to construct phylogenetic trees with the parsimony method. Software TMHMM was used to predict the AtMRB1 transmembrane domain (http://genome.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TMHMM).  The cDNA of AtMRB1 was amplified from the total RNAs of wild type Arabidopsis by RT‐PCR. One pair of specific primers was designed according to the AtMRB1 full‐length ORF sequence from the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) (accession number NM_124907). The primers used were as follows:  AtMRB1–1: 5′‐ATG GCG ACG AAC GGA TCG TC‐3′ AtMRB1–2: 5′‐TCA TGG TAT ATT CAC GAT TGT TTT A‐3′ Using a high‐fidelity DNA polymerase (Pyrobest polymerase, Takara, Tokyo, Japan), PCR was carried out for 35 cycles, each with 94 °C for 30 sec, 55 °C for 50 sec and 72 °C for 1.30 min. The amplified cDNA fragments of AtMRB1 were purified using the QIAquick PCR Purification Kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA, USA) and cloned into the EcoRV site of pBluescript SK. The recombined pBluescript SK plasmids were verified by sequencing, and were cut with BamH I and Kpn I, then cloned into pQVF, to produce Cauliflower Mosaic Virus (CaMV) 35S promoter adjacent to the full‐length cDNA of AtMRB1 (designated as pOE). The construct for AtMRB1 overexpression was verified by sequencing, and then transformed into Arabidopsis using the floral dip (Clough and Bent 1998). The homozygous transgenic plants were selected on 0.5× MS medium containing kanamycin (50 mg/mL) and used for analysis.  The construct of the AtMRB1‐GFP fusion protein was generated as follows. First, full‐length cDNA of AtMRB1 was obtained by PCR amplification using a pair of primers connecting a restriction site (Spe I and Nco I) in each 5′ end, which can be easily cloned in GFP expression vector.  AtMRB1–3: 5′‐TCT CCC ATG GCG ACG AAC GGA TCG TC‐3′  AtMRB1–4: 5′‐TTT GAC TAG TTC ATG GTA TAT TCA CGA TTG TT‐3′  The underlined nucleotides correspond to Nco I and Spe I restriction sites, respectively. Second, the purified amplified fragments were cut with Nco I and Spe I and then cloned into pCAMBIA 1302 (CAMBIA, Canberra, Australia). After sequencing to verify the sequence, the construct for AtMRB1‐GFP fusion protein was transformed into Arabidopsis. Roots from 6‐d‐old transgenic seedlings were visualized using a Bio‐Rad (Hercules, CA, USA) 1024 Laser Confocal Microscope. Meanwhile, the construct of the AtMRB1‐GFP fusion protein (5 μg of plasmid DNA per assay) was bombarded into the single‐layer onion epidermal cells using the Biolistic PDS‐1000/He Particle Delivery System (Bio‐Rad), as described by Li et al. (2006).  The cDNA product of the AtMRB1 overexpressor lines was diluted to appropriate concentrations for real‐time PCR assays. All reactions were carried out in triplicate using DNA Engine Opticon 2 for Continuous Fluorescence Detector (MJ Research Incorporated San Francisco, CA, USA, http://www.mjr.com) as described by Guo et al. (2006).   TUBULIN was used as an internal reference with the following primers:  Tub_fw: 5′‐GTT CTC GAT GTT GTT CGT AAG‐3′ Tub_rev: 5′‐TGT AAG GCT CAA CCA CAG TAT‐3′ The expression level of AtMRB1 in the AtMRB1 overexpressor lines was analyzed using primers:  MRB1RT_fw: 5′‐GCT GGT GTT ATC GCC AAT CGT‐3′ MRB1RT_rev: 5′‐CCT CAT CCT TGT CCA AAG ATG A‐3′ The expression of those genes related to organ size control in Arabidopsis was analyzed using the following primers:  BB_fw: 5′‐AAG ATG GGT GAA GAA AAG AGG AG‐3′ BB_rev: 5′‐GTT GTG GTG TCC CTA AAC TTG C‐3′ ROT3_fw: 5′‐TAA TCA AGA AGT CTT TGC GGT CG‐3′ ROT3_rev: 5′‐ACA AAT CAA TGG CAC CGG AG‐3′ ANT_fw: 5′‐ACC GAG GCG TTA CAA GAC ATA‐3′ ANT_rev: 5′‐ATT GGT GTG AGT AGA GGG ACC‐3′ AtGIF_fw1: 5′‐GCA GCA ACA AGC GAC TCA A‐3′ AtGIF_rev1: 5′‐ATG AAA CCC ACC AGC CTC TC‐3′ AtGRF5_fw: 5′‐CAC CAA CAA CAA CAA CCC AAG‐3′ AtGRF5_rev: 5′‐GAA GTG ACA AAG CGG AAG CAT‐3′ (Handling editor: Chun‐Ming Liu)
