!~ABS~! The circadian clock is an endogenous mechanism that coordinates biological processes with daily and seasonal changes in the environment. Heterodimerization of central clock components is an important way of controlling clock function in several different circadian systems. CIRCADIAN CLOCK ASSOCIATED1 (CCA1) and LATE ELONGATED HYPOCOTYL (LHY) are Myb-related proteins that function in or close to the central oscillator in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). Single mutants of cca1 and lhy have a phenotype of short-period rhythms. cca1 lhy double mutants show an even shorter period phenotype than the cca1 single mutant, suggesting that CCA1 and LHY are only partially functionally redundant. To determine whether CCA1 and LHY act in parallel or synergistically in the circadian clock, we examined their expression in both light-grown and etiolated seedlings. We have shown that LHY and CCA1 bind to the same region of the promoter of a Light-harvesting chlorophyll a/b protein (Lhcb, also known as CAB). CCA1 and LHY can form homodimers, and they also colocalize in the nucleus and heterodimerize in vitro and in vivo. In Arabidopsis, CCA1 and LHY physically interact in a manner independent of photoperiod. Moreover, results from gel filtration chromatography indicate that CCA1 and LHY are present in the same large complex in plants. Taken together, these results imply that CCA1 and LHY function synergistically in regulating circadian rhythms of Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! cca1 and lhy single loss-of-function mutants confer short periods (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) and an initial study showed that a cca1 lhy double loss-of-function mutant (cca1-1 lhy-11) is unable to maintain rhythms of clock-controlled RNAs for more than a few cycles under constant light (LL; CITATION; CITATION). However, the lhy allele used in that study was not truly null, because a truncated LHY protein is still expressed (Supplemental Fig. S1). Therefore, it is possible that the truncated LHY retained partial clock-associated function in the cca1-1 lhy-11 double mutant. We therefore set out to test whether plants that are completely null for both the CCA1 and LHY proteins are able to sustain rhythmicity in LL. The CAB2∷LUC (for LUCIFERASE) circadian reporter (CITATION; CITATION) was introduced into wild-type Wassilewskija (Ws), cca1-1 (a single-null mutant in the Ws background), and cca1-11 lhy-21 (a double-null mutant in the Ws background) that is completely missing both proteins (Supplemental Fig. S1; CITATION) seedlings by transformation (CITATION). Figure 1 demonstrates that the CAB2∷LUC rhythm in cca1-11 lhy-21 seedlings persists for at least 8 d in LL. Although some initial dampening (decreasing amplitude over time) was evident in the double mutant, the rhythm stabilized after three to four cycles. This is in contrast to reports that indicate rhythms dampen out completely in the double mutants (CITATION; CITATION). Compared to the cca1-1 single mutant, which displayed a short-period phenotype (24.77 ± 0.07 h versus 26.41 ± 0.16 h in wild type), the cca1-11 lhy-21 double mutant exhibits reduced amplitude as well as a very short period (19.73 ± 0.12 h) of CAB2∷LUC rhythm (Fig. 1). These results indicate that CCA1 and LHY are required for sustaining robust rhythms and proper period in LL; however, in their absence, other presumably closely related proteins can partially replace this function. The short period of the single cca1-1 mutant and the additive period phenotype of the cca1-11 lhy-21 double mutant indicate that CCA1 and LHY are only partially redundant, in which case they might function in parallel and/or work together in regulating circadian rhythms. [[FIGURE]] Both CCA1 and LHY are expressed rhythmically with peaks of expression occurring soon after dawn in plants grown under diurnal conditions or transferred to LL (CITATION; CITATION). To determine whether CCA1 and LHY function in parallel or synergistically, their tissue-specific expression was examined. Different Arabidopsis tissues from light-grown plants were harvested at 1 h after dawn (zeitgeber time [ZT]-1) when CCA1 and LHY are most abundant, and quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) was used to measure their levels of expression. Figure 2A shows that both CCA1 and LHY are expressed at higher levels in leaves and stems compared to roots, inflorescences, and siliques. Although CCA1 and LHY have similar expression patterns in different tissues, LHY is generally more highly expressed than CCA1 (Fig. 2A). [[FIGURE]] In etiolated seedlings, CCA1 and LHY are expressed at very low levels, but light can induce CCA1 and LHY expression (CITATION; CITATION). To examine whether LHY could be regulated by light and the circadian clock in a similar manner to CCA1 in etiolated seedlings, we compared the expression of CCA1 and LHY in etiolated seedlings treated with a brief exposure to red light (R). This experimental approach allows the acute response to light and the circadian response to be separated (CITATION; CITATION). Arabidopsis seedlings were grown for 5 d in the dark, exposed to 2 min of R, and tissue was harvested at various times up to 28 h following R exposure. Consistent with previous reports (CITATION; CITATION), both CCA1 and LHY mRNA levels increased within 0.5 h and peaked at 1 h after R treatment (Fig. 2B), demonstrating that light induces both LHY and CCA1 expression in etiolated seedlings. Following the acute response to light, the expression of both CCA1 and LHY mRNAs reached trough levels in approximately 8 h and rose transiently to peak at approximately 16 h after R treatment (Fig. 2B). The second peak is most likely due to the action of an endogenous circadian oscillator (CITATION). This result demonstrates that both light and the circadian clock regulate the expression of CCA1 and LHY in a similar way in etiolated seedlings. Taken together, the results indicate that CCA1 and LHY have similar expression patterns in both light-grown plants and etiolated seedlings. CCA1 and LHY show similar regulation by light and the circadian clock. In addition, CCA1 mediates activation of Light-harvesting chlorophyll a/b protein (Lhcb) genes by binding directly to their promoters (CITATION). It has previously been shown that the Myb domain of CCA1 interacts with two closely spaced binding sites (−92 to −105 and −111 to −122 relative to the transcription start site) in the Lhcb1*3 promoter (CITATION). The extensive similarity (87% identity) between the Myb domains of the CCA1 and LHY proteins prompted us to examine whether LHY can bind to the same regions of the Lhcb1*3 promoter as CCA1. Figure 3 shows the results from a representative electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) using Escherichia coli-produced CCA1 and LHY proteins and wild-type and mutant promoter fragments of Lhcb1*3 as probes. DNA-binding activities were observed for both proteins using the wild-type A2 fragment of the Lhcb1*3 promoter (Fig. 3A). This A2 fragment was used previously to characterize CCA1 binding ability (CITATION). The mutated m1 fragment carries several point mutations spanning both CCA1 binding sites in the Lhcb1*3 promoter (Fig. 3C). These mutations were previously shown to abolish binding of CCA1 to the wild-type A2 fragment (CITATION). As shown in Figure 3A, the altered nucleotides of the m1 fragment also completely abolished the binding of LHY. [[FIGURE]] To characterize the LHY-binding site on the Lhcb1*3 promoter in more detail, we carried out 1,10-phenanthroline-copper footprinting analysis. We have previously used this method to characterize CCA1 binding to the same fragment of the Lhcb1*3 promoter (CITATION). After performing an EMSA to resolve the DNA-protein complexes, the gel was treated with 1,10-phenanthroline-copper, and the DNA in the two complexes (B1 and B2; Fig. 3A) was recovered and resolved in a sequencing gel. As shown in Figure 3B, in complex B1, the −96 to −107 region was protected and in complex B2, regions from −92 to −107 and from −111 to −130 were protected. This result suggests that the two complexes of different mobilities are a result of the presence of two separate binding sites on this fragment and that the −96 to −107 region probably is the higher affinity binding site for LHY. A similar observation in which one complex has a larger protected region than the other was also made in CCA1 footprinting analysis (CITATION). Figure 3C summarizes the results from the phenanthroline-copper footprinting and compares the regions of the wild-type A2 fragment protected by CCA1 and LHY. These results demonstrate that the two proteins bind to the same region of the Lhcb1*3 promoter. In Drosophila, CYC heterodimerizes with dCLK and activates the transcription of PER and TIM through binding to the E-boxes of the PER and TIM promoters (CITATION). Because CCA1 and LHY bind to the same region of the Lhcb1*3 promoter, we investigated whether CCA1 heterodimerizes with LHY using a reciprocal interaction assay. Glutathione S-transferase (GST) fusions of CCA1 and LHY were immobilized on glutathione-agarose beads and incubated with [35S]Met-labeled CCA1 or LHY synthesized by in vitro transcription-translation. LUC was used as a control. Figure 4A shows that in the presence of either GST-CCA1 or GST-LHY, but not with GST alone, both CCA1 and LHY proteins synthesized in vitro were efficiently bound, while LUC was not bound by either of the two GST fusion proteins. These results demonstrate that CCA1 and LHY not only homodimerize but can also form a heterodimer in vitro. [[FIGURE]] To identify the region of CCA1 that is responsible for interacting with LHY, we carried out interaction assays using [35S]Met-labeled LHY synthesized in vitro and various deletion constructs of CCA1 fused to GST. Figure 4B shows that in the presence of immobilized GST-CCA1 proteins lacking either the 316 or 436 N-terminal amino acids of CCA1 or a 472-amino acid portion from the C terminus, LHY could not be efficiently bound. Taken together, these data suggest that a region of CCA1 between amino acids 136 and 316 is important for interaction with LHY. It is worth mentioning that the LHY-interactive domain of CCA1 lies outside the DNA-binding Myb domain. To examine the homodimerization of CCA1 in vivo, we carried out in vivo transient expression in Nicotiana benthamiana. Expression constructs of 35S∷YFP (yellow fluorescent protein)-CCA1 and 35S∷MYC-CCA1 were coinfiltrated into N. benthamiana and total protein was extracted from infiltrated leaves. Immunoprecipitation with anti-GFP antibody and subsequent detection of MYC-CCA1 using anti-MYC antibody (Fig. 5A ) showed that anti-GFP antibodies not only immunoprecipitate YFP-CCA1, but also coimmunoprecipitate MYC-CCA1. To examine the homodimerization of LHY in vivo, similar immunoprecipitation was performed using anti-GFP antibodies with total protein extracts from N. benthamiana leaves coexpressing YFP-LHY and haemagglutinin (HA)-LHY. Figure 5B shows that HA-LHY is coprecipitated with YFP-LHY. These results indicate that both CCA1 and LHY can homodimerize in vivo. [[FIGURE]] Because both CCA1 and LHY have been reported in the nucleus in plants (CITATION; CITATION), we first examined whether they colocalize in vivo. Expression constructs of 35S∷YFP-CCA1 and 35S∷LHY-CFP (cyan fluorescent protein)-HA were coinfiltrated into N. benthamiana. Confocal microscopy results (Fig. 5C) show that both YFP-CCA1 and LHY-CFP are localized in the nucleus and their expression overlaps. To verify the heterodimerization between CCA1 and LHY, MYC-CCA1 and HA-LHY were coexpressed in N. benthamiana. Immunoprecipitation with anti-LHY antibody and subsequent detection of MYC-CCA1 (Fig. 5D) showed that CCA1 interacts strongly with LHY in vivo. We extended these trials to test different regions of CCA1 and found that a region of CCA1 between amino acids 136 and 316 is important for interaction with LHY (Fig. 5D) in vivo. Protein product from one of the CCA1 deletion constructs (35S∷MYC-CCA1Δ316N) can only be detected by anti-CCA1 antibody, but not anti-MYC antibody (Fig. 5D), indicating that the MYC tag may be cleaved off from CCA1Δ316N protein. As expected, protein products from CCA1 C-terminal deletion constructs (35S∷MYC-CCA1Δ270C and 35S∷MYC-CCA1Δ472C) are not recognized by anti-CCA1 antibody, which is generated against the C-terminal portion of the CCA1 protein (Fig. 5D). Taken together, the results support the in vitro findings, demonstrating that CCA1 and LHY colocalize in the nucleus, and the region of CCA1 downstream of the Myb domain contains the determinants for LHY interactions in planta. The physical interaction between CCA1 and LHY was also observed in wild-type (ecotype Columbia [Col]) Arabidopsis (Fig. 6A ). Immunoprecipitation was performed using anti-LHY antibodies with total extracts from 2-week-old seedlings grown in 12 h light:12 h darkness (12L:12D) and harvested at ZT-1 and ZT-23 (1 h before dawn). Figure 6A shows that CCA1 coprecipitated with LHY and their interaction is not light dependent in Arabidopsis. [[FIGURE]] To further determine whether CCA1/LHY interaction is affected by photoperiod, wild-type Col Arabidopsis plants grown in 12L:12D were harvested at different times and a similar immunoprecipitation was conducted. The amount of LHY immunoprecipitated and the amount of CCA1 coimmunoprecipitated were correlated with the LHY and CCA1 levels in the total extract, suggesting that CCA1 can interact with LHY whenever they both are present. Similar results were obtained when Arabidopsis plants were grown in LL and harvested at different circadian times (data not shown). These data demonstrate that CCA1 and LHY physically interact in a manner independent of photoperiod in plants (Fig. 6). To examine whether the interaction of CCA1 and LHY is stable in plants, gel filtration chromatography was performed using total extract from wild-type (Col) Arabidopsis, which was prepared from 2-week-old seedlings grown in 12L:12D and harvested at ZT-1. We expected to observe heterodimers of about 150 kD. Surprisingly, we were unable to detect any monomers or heterodimers of CCA1 and LHY. CCA1 and LHY monomers are predicted to be 67 and 70 kD, respectively, but migrate at 75 and 80 kD, respectively, when subject to electrophoresis in denaturing conditions (CITATION; CITATION). We found that both CCA1 and LHY are present in a large complex (>440 kD; Fig. 7A ).To determine whether CCA1 and LHY are present in the same complex, fractions 5, 6, and 7 were subjected to the immunoprecipitation with anti-LHY antibodies. CCA1 coprecipitated with LHY in those fractions, indicating that CCA1 and LHY are present in the same large complex (Fig. 7B). This observation suggests that CCA1 and LHY could function as part of a complex and work cooperatively with other proteins in regulating circadian rhythms. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) ecotype Col was used for all experiments described unless stated otherwise. Seeds were stratified for 3 d in the dark at 4°C and then sown onto either solid Murashige and Skoog medium (CITATION) containing 1.5% agarose or soil. Seedlings were grown under a 12-h-fluorescent light (40 μmol m−2 s−1):12-h-dark photoperiod at a constant temperature of 22°C. Growth of etiolated seedlings and brief R treatments of seedlings were carried out as previously described (CITATION). To create the 35S-YFP-LHY and 35S-HA-LHY constructs, LHY cDNA was generated by PCR using the full-length LHY cDNA in pBluesript SK (±) plasmid (CITATION) as template and the primers LHY-F, 5′-CACCATGGATACTAATACATCTGGAG-3′ and LHY-R(S), 5′-TCATGTAGAAGCTTCTCCTTC-3′. Inserts were cloned into the pEarleyGate 104 (35S-YFP-LHY) and pEarleyGate 201 (35S-HA-LHY) vectors (CITATION) using the GATEWAY recombination system (Invitrogen). To eliminate the stop codon of LHY cDNA, the LHY-R(NS) primer 5′-TGTAGAAGCTTCTCCTTCCAA-3′ was used in combination with LHY-F. LHY cDNA without stop codon (LHY-NS) was cloned into the pEarleyGate 102 vector (CITATION) to create 35S-LHY-CFP-HA construct. To create the 35S-YFP-CCA1 and 35S-MYC-CCA1 constructs, CCA1 cDNA was generated by PCR using the full-length CCA1 cDNA in pGEX-3X (CITATION) as template and the primers CCA1-F, 5′-CACCATGGAGACAAATTCGTCTGG-3′ and CCA1-R, 5′-TCATGTGGAAGCTTGAGTTTC-3′. Inserts were cloned into the pEarleyGate 104 (35S-YFP-CCA1) and pEarleyGate 203 (35S-MYC-CCA1) vectors (CITATION) using the GATEWAY recombination system (Invitrogen). To generate 35S-MYC-CCA1 deletion constructs, PCR was done using primers CCA1Δ86N-F, 5′-CACCCTAGACATAGCTATTCCTCC-3′; CCA1Δ316N-F, 5′-CACCGCTGCTAGTGCTTGGTGGG-3′; CCA1Δ436N-F, 5′-CACCGAGGCGGATGCATCAGAAAG-3′ in combination with CCA1-R and CCA1Δ86C-R, 5′-TCATTGTTCTTGTTGTTGTTGTTCTTC-3′; CCA1Δ270C-R, 5′-TCAACCACCTGAACTAAGAGGAG-3′; and CCA1Δ472C-R, 5′-TCACTCAGGATGCGACACTTTTTC-3′ in combination with CCA1-F. Inserts were cloned into the pEarleyGate 203 vector (CITATION) using the GATEWAY recombination system (Invitrogen). PCR amplifications were performed using Pfu DNA polymerase (Stratagene) following standard PCR protocol. All vectors prepared were direct sequenced. Bioluminescence assays were performed using 96-well plates as described by CITATION and CITATION. RNA extraction and qRT-PCR were carried out as previously described (CITATION). RNA HELICASE8 (RH8; CITATION) was used as a noncycling reference. All reactions were performed in triplicate. The primers for qRT-PCR were: CCA1_F, 5′-GGGGTGTGAATGATGGAAAAGA-3′; CCA1_R, 5′-CGATCTTCATTGGCCATCTCAG-3′; LHY_F, 5′-GACAACGCGGTTCAAGATGTTC-3′; LHY_R, 5′-CCAAGGGTAGTTTTGCATGCTG-3′; RH8_F, 5′-CAATGGCTTCGAAGAGGTCAGA-3′; and RH8_R, 5′-TGGGTCGATAACTTCGGATTGA-3′. The RNA gel-blot analysis and the production of RNA probes of CCA1, LHY, and UBQ10 were carried out as previously described (CITATION). GST-CCA1 and GST-LHY fusion proteins were expressed in Escherichia coli and were purified as described previously (CITATION). The GST-CCA1 deletions were generated by deleting the appropriate fragment from pGEX-CCA1 (CITATION) and re-ligating the remaining portion of the construct (e.g. Δ86N represents 86-amino acid deletion from N terminus and Δ86C represents 86-amino acid deletion from C terminus, etc.). The wild-type A2 and mutant m1 probes have been described previously (CITATION). CCA1 and LHY proteins were produced in E. coli as GST fusions and released from the GST portion by cleavage with factor Xa as described by CITATION. Each DNA-binding reaction included 0.3 ng of 32P-labeled DNA probe, 1 μg of bovine serum albumin, and 0.5 μg of poly (dI-dC). Labeled probes were incubated in the presence or absence of approximately 5 ng of recombinant CCA1 or LHY proteins for 15 min prior to electrophoresis. The EMSA buffer and electrophoresis conditions have been described previously (CITATION). DNA-protein complexes were detected by autoradiography. Phenanthroline-copper footprinting was carried out as described previously (CITATION). The A2 fragment was labeled with 32P at the 3′-end of the antisense strand (CITATION). The EMSA reactions contained 1.5 × 106 cpm of end-labeled probe, 120 ng of Factor Xa-digested LHY protein, and 3 μg poly(dI-dC). CCA1, LHY, and LUC proteins labeled with [35S]Met were synthesized in vitro in 50 μL of rabbit reticulocyte lysate using a coupled transcription translation system (Promega). In vitro interaction assays were performed as described previously (CITATION). Nicotiana benthamiana leaves were agroinfiltrated as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58C1 cells were transformed with the appropriate binary vectors using electroporation. A. tumefaciens positive clones were grown overnight and resuspended in infiltration buffer (10 mm MgCl2, 10 mm MES, and 100 μm acetosyringone) to reach a concentration of 0.8 OD600. This suspension was pressure-infiltrated into tobacco leaves using a syringe. Leaves were analyzed or harvested 2 d after infiltration. All imaging was done using a Carl Zeiss 510 Meta laser scanning confocal microscope with a Plan-Apochromat 63×/1.4 oil DIC objective. To image YFP and CFP together, we used multitracking in stack mode and a 488/543 main dichroic. YFP was excited with an argon laser at 25% to 50% of its output that was attenuated to 7% to 9% at 514 nm. The emission was sent through a 530- to 600-nm band-pass filter for detection of YFP. CFP was stimulated by a 458-nm laser line that was attenuated to 7% to 9%. The emission was passed through a 475- to 525-nm band-pass filter for detection of CFP. Proteins were extracted in immunoprecipitation buffer (50 mm Tris, pH 8.0, 150 mm NaCl, 1 mm EDTA, 10% glycerol, 1% Triton X-100, 2 mm phenylmethylsulphonyl fluoride, 50 μm MG115, 50 μm MG132, and protease inhibitor cocktail [Roche]). The immunoprecipitation was performed as described by CITATION using either anti-GFP (sc-8334; Santa Cruz Biotechnology) or anti-LHY antibody (CITATION). Immunoblotting was performed as described (CITATION) with the appropriate primary antibody (affinity-purified anti-CCA1 antibody; CITATION), affinity-purified anti-LHY antibody (CITATION), anti-GFP (sc-8334; Santa Cruz Biotechnology), anti-MYC (Upstate), or anti-HA (Abcam). Gel filtration was performed as described previously (CITATION) except 1× gel filtration buffer (50 mm Tris, pH 7.5, 150 mm NaCl, 5 mm MgCl, 10% glycerol, 0.1% NP-40, 2 mm dithiothreitol, 0.7 μg/mL pepstatin, 1 mm phenylmethylsulphonyl fluoride, 10 μm MG115, 10 μm MG132, and protease inhibitor cocktail [Roche]) was used for extraction and gel filtration. The extract was passed through a Superdex 200 (Pharmacia) gel filtration column. After a 7-mL void volume, 13 fractions of 0.5 mL each were collected and analyzed for the presence of CCA1 and LHY by western-blot analysis. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Truncated LHY protein is present in the cca1-1 lhy-11 double loss-of-function mutant.
