!~ABS~! During phosphate starvation, Snf1-related kinase 1 (SnRK1) activity significantly decreases compared with plants growing under normal nutritional conditions. An analysis of the expression of the genes encoding for the catalytic subunits of SnRK1 showed that these subunits were not affected by phosphate starvation. Transgenic Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) plants overexpressing the AKIN10 and AKIN11 catalytic subunits fused with green fluorescent protein (GFP) were produced, and their localizations were mainly chloroplastic with low but detectable signals in the cytoplasm. These data were corroborated with an immunocytochemistry analysis using leaf and root sections with an anti-AKIN10/AKIN11 antibody. The SnRK1 activity in transgenic plants overexpressing AKIN11-GFP was reduced by 35% to 40% in phosphate starvation, in contrast with the results observed in plants overexpressing AKIN10-GFP, which increased the activity by 100%. No differences in activity were observed in plants growing in phosphate-sufficient conditions. Biochemical analysis of the proteins indicated that AKIN11 is specifically degraded under these limited conditions and that the increase in AKIN10-GFP activity was not due to the phosphorylation of threonine-175. These results are consistent with an important role of AKIN10 in signaling during phosphate starvation. Moreover, akin10 mutant plants were deficient in starch mobilization at night during inorganic phosphate starvation, and under this condition several genes were up-regulated and down-regulated, indicating their important roles in the control of general transcription. This finding reveals novel roles for the different catalytic subunits during phosphate starvation.
!~RES~! It has been very well documented that kinases of the AMPK/SnRK1/SNF1 family are activated in low-energy conditions and when Glc is absent from the medium (CITATION). In plants, Pi starvation is a condition that produces an important reduction in the amount of ATP. To get information about the regulation of SnRK1 during Pi deficiency, its kinase activity was measured by the phosphorylation of the SAMS peptide. The SnRK1 activity was lower in leaf extracts from Pi-starved plants (Fig. 1 ). To evaluate if the difference in activity was due to differential expression of the catalytic subunits, we searched the Genevestigator database and found that only two of the three genes that encode the catalytic subunits (AKIN10 and AKIN11) were expressed in rosette leaves. No changes in gene expression were found in plants grown under complete nutritional conditions (Fig. 2A ). In addition, after 5 and 10 d of Pi starvation, semiquantitative reverse transcription (RT)-PCR indicated that no visible changes occurred in the amount of the AKIN10 and AKIN11 transcripts. Amplification of actin was used as an internal control to indicate equal loading. At4 is a Pi starvation-inducible gene and was used as an indicator of the Pi status (CITATION). In contrast with AKIN10 and AKIN11, At4 induction was higher in Pi-starved plants and was observed after 5 d of treatment (Fig. 2B). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Having established that no changes in gene expression were observed in the catalytic subunits during Pi starvation to explain the reduction in activity, we analyzed the protein levels. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants carrying AKIN10-GFP and AKIN11-GFP fusion proteins were evaluated. Localization of GFP fusion proteins by confocal microscopy showed that both catalytic subunits colocalized with the chlorophyll, suggesting a chloroplast localization (Fig. 3, A and D ). In the case of AKIN10, a low but detectable signal was also observed in the cytoplasm (Fig. 3C). To confirm the localization of the catalytic subunits, we raised polyclonal antibodies using a polypeptide that recognized AKIN10 and AKIN11 to detect the subunits in root and leaf sections. Immunolocalization analysis indicated that the catalytic subunits are present in both organs (Fig. 4, A and G ). In leaf cells, the catalytic subunits are localized in the chloroplast but the signal was also detected in the cytoplasm (Fig. 4, A–C). In roots, the catalytic subunits were present in all cells, from the epidermis to the vascular tissue (Fig. 4, G–I). To probe the chloroplast localization of the catalytic subunits at the biochemical level, proteins obtained from purified chloroplasts were separated with SDS-PAGE and transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane. Western-blot analysis identified a polypeptide band around 58 kD, which is the expected molecular mass for AKIN11 and AKIN10. The same blot was probed with Rubisco antibodies (Fig. 5 ). Under Pi starvation conditions, the detection of GFP fusion proteins showed no important changes in AKIN10. Interestingly, the fluorescence corresponding to AKIN11-GFP almost completely disappeared (Fig. 6 ). This reduction in the fluorescence corresponding to one of the catalytic subunits was also observed in the leaf and root sections of Pi-starved plants, visualized using the anti-α-antibody (Fig. 4, D and J). In leaf cells, the amount of the catalytic subunits decreased notably, since the chlorophyll signal was more intense than the Alexa 568 signal (Fig. 4, D–F). In roots, the catalytic subunits were confined to the surrounding vascular tissue and the signal in the cortex and epidermis disappeared (Fig. 4, J–L). In addition, the activity of SnRK1 in transgenic plants overexpressing AKIN10-GFP growing in Pi-starvation conditions was higher than in plants growing in Pi-sufficient conditions, whereas in AKIN11-GFP plants, Pi starvation reduced SnRK1 activity (Fig. 7A ). The determination of AKIN10-GFP and AKIN11-GFP levels in transgenic plants using anti-GFP antibodies showed no changes in AKIN10 and a significant reduction in AKIN11 during Pi starvation (Fig. 7, B and C). These results strongly suggest a differential regulation of both catalytic subunits under this nutritional condition. Since no changes in protein levels for AKIN10 were found, the increase in its activity might be explained by a posttranslational modification. Activation by phosphorylation of the Thr-175 present at the T-loop was evaluated using an antibody that recognized the mammalian phosphorylated Thr-172. The results showed that plants growing in Pi starvation had the same level of phosphorylated AKIN10 than plants growing in Pi-sufficient conditions, indicating that additional mechanisms are activating the AKIN10 complexes (Fig. 7B). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The results presented so far suggest that SnRK1 complexes are formed with the AKIN10 catalytic subunit under Pi starvation. To better understand the role of AKIN10 during Pi starvation, a T-DNA insertion line in akin10 was identified and characterized. In addition, RT-PCR, using gene-specific primers, indicated that no AKIN10 expression was found in the mutant. actin and AKIN11 were expressed in both the wild-type and mutant lines (Fig. 8A ). When the presence of AKIN10 and AKIN11 was evaluated by western blot using two-dimensional SDS-PAGE, AKIN10 (pI = 8.36) was observed only in the wild type, whereas AKIN11 (pI = 7.4) was identified in both wild-type and mutant plants (Fig. 8B). No differences in SnRK1 activity were observed in the wild-type and mutant plants growing in Pi-sufficient conditions. However, SnRK1 activity decreased more in the mutant than in the wild-type plants when they were grown in Pi-starvation conditions (Fig. 8C). [[FIGURE]] In plants, SnRK1 is directly involved in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism (CITATION; CITATION). Antisense expression of SnRK1 in barley (Hordeum vulgare) produces pollen with no starch and arrests at the binucleate state of development (CITATION). In Arabidopsis, starch degradation was impaired in a transient akin10, akin11 double mutant (CITATION). During Pi starvation, starch accumulation in leaves is one of the most consistently observed biochemical responses (CITATION; CITATION). To determine if AKIN10 has a regulatory role in starch metabolism, the amount of starch was measured in wild-type and mutant plants. There was no difference in the starch levels between plants growing in Pi-sufficient conditions. However, starch accumulation was higher in the mutant than in the wild-type plants during phosphate starvation (Fig. 9A ). To determine if starch mobilization was affected, plants were incubated with 14CO2 and the distribution of the label was analyzed. The differences between the labels associated with the starch granules at the end of the day and at the end of the night are indications of starch mobilization. The results showed that less mobilization occurred in akin10 during Pi starvation than in the wild type (Fig. 9B). [[FIGURE]] It has been demonstrated that SnRK1 also regulates gene expression (CITATION). To determine if akin10 mutants also had a transcriptional effect during Pi starvation, we did a microarray analysis to identify genes that could be regulated by SnRK1. We evaluated the transcript accumulation of some genes that had changed levels of expression. The results showed that some of these genes, which are directly involved in carbohydrate metabolism, increased transcript levels in mutant plants grown under Pi starvation. In contrast, other genes related to general stress were down-regulated (Fig. 10 ). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) plants were grown in a growth chamber at 21°C to 23°C under short-day conditions (8 h of light/16 h of dark) at a light intensity of 120 μmol photons m−2 s−1 (fluorescent bulbs). akin10 mutant was isolated from the SIGnAL T-DNA collection (line SALK_ 127939). Homozygous mutants were identified by PCR genotyping using the following gene-specific primers: LP (5′-ACCACACGTTGGAAACTTTTG-3′) and RP (5′-CAGATGGGTTCCTAACAGCAG-3′) in combination with the T-DNA-specific primer LBb1 (5′-GCGTGGACCGCTTGCTGCAACT-3′). For the phosphate-starvation treatment, seedlings were transferred to Agrolite and watered every third day with a Hoagland II solution (CITATION), either containing 500 μm ammonium phosphate (+Pi) as the only source of P or no phosphate (−Pi), depending on the experiment. Total RNA was isolated using the Trizol reagent according to the manufacturer's instructions (Invitrogen). cDNA was synthesized using ImProm-II Reverse Transcriptase according to the manufacturer's instructions (Promega). The gene-specific primer pairs (forward and reverse) for detecting the following genes were as follows: SPS4 (At4g10120), 5′-GCTAGCCTCAGGTTCAAGCT-3′ and 5′-TGTGGAGGCCACCCAGTAAG-3′; SPS2 (At5g11110), 5′-TTCCGCTGGGGTGGAGAGAG-3′ and 5′-AGAGCGACCTTAATGGCGTC-3′; HEX (At2g19860), 5′-TGGCGATATCGTCCCACCTA-3′ and 5′-TGAGAGTGAGAAGCAGCAAG-3′; GAL1 (At3g06580), 5′-CCATACACGGCTGAGGAGAT-3′ and 5′-AGAGCGACCTTAATGGCGTC-3′; THF1 (At2g20890), 5′-CAAGCGACCCATCCCGAGTA-3′ and 5′-TGCTTCTTCTTCTCCCTCTC-3′; TMT2 (At4g35300), 5′-TTGAGCAGGCGGGTGTCGGG-3′ and 5′-GCAGCACGGGGAGACTGTAA-3′; FBP (At5g10770), 5′-CAGGGATCTTCGACGGCTCT-3′ and 5′-CGTCCACACAAATTCAGGCG-3′; RAB (At3g09900), 5′-GATATGGGACACTGCTGGAC-3′ and 5′-TGATCCCTTGGGGCTCGGCT-3′; SKP (At3g54480), 5′-TTGCCTGGTCGGTGGAGGCG-3′ and 5′-CGAACACGCTGCAGAACCAA-3′; CP (At3g19400), 5′-AACGCTGGATGTGATGGAGG-3′ and 5′-GGGTAAGAAGGCATCATTGC-3′; and NPH (At1g03010), 5′-AGCTTGTAGCCACGCAGCTC-3′ and 5′-GCCTTGCCACTCAAGGAAGG-3′. As an internal control, the following forward and reverse primers of the ACTIN gene were designed: 5′-TGGGGCAGAAGGATGCGTATG-3′ and 5′-CAATACCAGTTGTACGGCCAC-3′. For a phosphate-starvation control, the At4 cDNA was amplified using the following primers: forward (5′-CCCCTAAAGAAACTGAAGCTCAAGAA-3′) and reverse (5′-GGAACATAAACATATAAGAGCTAT-3′). To analyze gene expression, equivalent amounts of total RNA were input in cDNA synthesis and the same amount of cDNA was included in PCR. The resultant PCR products were resolved on a 1% agarose gel for comparison. The coding regions of AKIN10 (At3g01090) and AKIN11 (At3g29160) were amplified by PCR using the primers for AKIN10 (5′-CCCATGGATGGATCAGGCACA-3′ and 5′-GAGGACTCGGAGCTGAGCAAG-3′) and AKIN11 (5′-CACCATGGATCATTCATCAAAT-3′ and 5′-GATCACACGAAGCTCTGTAAG-3′). The fragment with the coding sequence was introduced into the pENTR/D-TOPO vector (Invitrogen) and then recombined with an N-terminal GFP fusion binary vector (pEarlyGate103) using recombinant Gateway technology (CITATION). Arabidopsis transformation using the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 was performed by the floral dip method (CITATION). Frozen leaves were homogenized in a chilled mortar with ice-cold extraction buffer containing 50 mm HEPES, pH 8.2, 50 mm NaF, 1 mm EDTA, 1 mm EGTA, 1 mm Na3VO4, 50 mm NaCl, 10 mm β-glycerophosphate, 8% (v/v) glycerol, 1 mm dithiothreitol, 1 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, 1 mm benzamidine, and 50 μm leupeptin. The homogenate was centrifuged at 20,000g for 10 min at 4°C. Proteins obtained in the crude extracts were precipitated by adding 11% (w/v) polyethylene glycol 10,000. The solution was gently stirred for 20 min and centrifuged at 20,000g for 30 min. The pellet was dissolved in 30 μL of extraction buffer, and the total protein was evaluated according to the Bradford method (CITATION). One or 2 μg of total protein was used in the assay. The SAMS peptide kinase activity was determined as described by CITATION, but with some modifications. Peptide phosphorylation was assayed in a final volume of 25 μL containing kinase buffer (40 mm HEPES, pH 7.0, 50 mm sodium fluoride, 25 mm β-glycerophosphate, 50 mm NaCl, 8% [v/v] glycerol, 0.8 mm EDTA, 1 mm dithiothreitol, 5 mm MgCl2,1 mm EGTA, and 1 mm Na3VO4), 200 μm SAMS peptide (HMRSAMSGLHLVKRR), 200 μm AMP, and [γ-32P]ATP (200 μm, 5 μCi μL−1, 3,000 Ci mmol−1). After incubation for 10 min at 30°C, 15-μL aliquots were removed and spotted on 1-cm × 1-cm squares of phosphocellulose paper (P81; Whatman), which were dropped into 500 mL of 1% (v/v) H3PO4. The squares were washed three times for 20 min each in 1% H3PO4 and then once with acetone, air dried, and counted by immersion in 5 mL of a toluene-based scintillation fluid. Chloroplasts were isolated from Arabidopsis leaves and purified by centrifugation through Percoll (Pharmacia) gradients as described by CITATION. A peptide corresponding to 10 conserved amino acids in the AKIN10 and AKIN11 proteins was synthesized by Sigma. Peptide antigens were made by linking synthetic peptide to keyhole limpet hemocyanin by a standard protocol (CITATION). The hemocyanin-conjugated peptides were used to raise antibodies in a female New Zealand White rabbit. For the initial immunization, 200 μg of conjugate in Freund's complete adjuvant was delivered via several subcutaneous injections. The rabbit received two additional boosts, using 200 μg of hemocyanin-conjugated peptides in Freund's incomplete adjuvant at 2 and 6 weeks after initial injections. The final bleed was performed by cardiac puncture 9 d after the final injection. Antibodies that recognized the mammalian phosphorylated Thr at the T-loop of the catalytic subunit were purchased from Santa Cruz Biotechnology. Antibodies that recognized the N terminus of the GFP were purchased from Sigma. Soluble or chloroplastic proteins were subjected to electrophoresis after mixing with 2× Laemmli SDS-PAGE sample buffer and boiling for 5 min. After electrophoresis, proteins were transferred to nitrocellulose membranes using a mini gel apparatus (Bio-Rad). The blot was developed using an enhanced chemiluminescence kit (GE Healthcare). Two-dimensional SDS-PAGE was performed using the Multiphor II Electrophoresis Unit (Amersham) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Roots and leaves of Arabidopsis grown with or without phosphate were harvested and fixed in 4% (v/v) formaldehyde in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS), dehydrated in an ethanol series, and embedded in Paraplast Plus (Polysciences). Sections of 6 to 7 μm were blocked with PBS plus 3% bovine serum albumin, 0.01% sodium azide, and 0.1% Triton X-100 for 4 h at 4°C. Sections were simultaneously incubated with the primary rabbit anti-α-subunit antibody (1:250 dilution) at 4°C overnight. Sections were then rinsed with PBS and then incubated with secondary goat anti-rabbit Alexa 568-fluorochrome-conjugated antibody for 4 h at 4°C. Sections were examined by confocal fluorescence For the study of GFP fusion proteins, leaf sections were mounted on slides and the GFP fluorescence was observed using a FluoView 1000 confocal microscope (Olympus). Images were captured with a digital camera, and photographs were processed for optimal presentation using Photoshop 8.0 Mature leaves were labeled with 14CO2 as described by CITATION. Five hours after the light period started, plants were incubated with the 14CO2 liberated from 50 μCi (2.18 GBq mmol−1) of sodium [14C]bicarbonate by the addition of 200 μL of 3 m lactic acid. Plants were exposed to 14CO2 for 1 h before injecting an excess of 3 m KOH to neutralize the acid and to absorb any remaining 14CO2. One group of plants was analyzed 4 h later, and another group was incubated in the dark for 18 h. For starch isolation and quantification, leaf samples were homogenized in 2 to 3 mL of 80% ethanol and extracted twice at 80°C for 30 min. The soluble fraction was discarded, and the ethanol-insoluble fraction was resuspended in 1.5 mL of water and incubated at 90°C for 4 h. After cooling, 220 units of amyloglucosidase (from Rhizopus; EC 3.2.1.3) in 1.5 mL of 200 mm acetate buffer (pH 4.5) was added to each sample and incubated at 37°C overnight. Glc and the label associated with the starch were determined in the supernatant (CITATION).
