!~ABS~! Acyl-CoA Synthetase (ACOS) genes are related to 4-coumarate:CoA ligase (4CL) but have distinct functions. The Arabidopsis thaliana ACOS5 protein is in clade A of Arabidopsis ACOS proteins, the clade most closely related to 4CL proteins. This clade contains putative nonperoxisomal ACOS enzymes conserved in several angiosperm lineages and in the moss Physcomitrella patens. Although its function is unknown, ACOS5 is preferentially expressed in the flowers of all angiosperms examined. Here, we show that an acos5 mutant produced no pollen in mature anthers and no seeds by self-fertilization and was severely compromised in pollen wall formation apparently lacking sporopollenin or exine. The phenotype was first evident at stage 8 of anther development and correlated with maximum ACOS5 mRNA accumulation in tapetal cells at stages 7 to 8. Green fluorescent protein–ACOS5 fusions showed that ACOS5 is located in the cytoplasm. Recombinant ACOS5 enzyme was active against oleic acid, allowing kinetic constants for ACOS5 substrates to be established. Substrate competition assays indicated broad in vitro preference of the enzyme for medium-chain fatty acids. We propose that ACOS5 encodes an enzyme that participates in a conserved and ancient biochemical pathway required for sporopollenin monomer biosynthesis that may also include the Arabidopsis CYP703A2 and MS2 enzymes.
!~RES~! Previous results showed that the Arabidopsis 4CL-like gene ACOS5 is a single-copy gene with homologs in the genomes of representative fully sequenced land plants (CITATION). To further clarify the relationship between ACOS5, its homologs, and true 4CL genes in plants, we used the corresponding protein sequences from Arabidopsis, poplar, rice, the moss Physcomitrella, and tobacco (Nicotiana sylvestris) (as listed in Table 1 ; see Supplemental Table 1 online) to construct an unrooted maximum likelihood phylogenetic tree (Figure 1 ; see Supplemental Data Set 1 online). In this phylogenetic reconstruction, we included homologs from each of the plants examined and found that clade A ACOS genes form a distinct phylogenetic sister group to 4CLs. In contrast with bona fide 4CL genes, which have undergone complex patterns of gene family expansion in different lineages (Figure 1), clade A ACOS proteins are encoded by single-copy genes in each of the four species analyzed for which the complete genome sequences are available. Also, according to this analysis, the Physcomitrella clade A ACOS gene (ACOS6) and the four Physcomitrella sequences that encode 4CL proteins (CITATION) are basal to the angiosperm clade A ACOS genes and to angiosperm 4CL genes, respectively (Figure 1). This suggests that both 4CL and clade A ACOS genes arose early in land plant evolution and were present in the most recent common ancestor of angiosperms and Physcomitrella. Consistent with this, no clade A ACOS genes were found in the C. reinhardtii genome (Table 1). Putative ACOS5 Orthologs and Expression in Other Species [[FIGURE]] Unlike most other 4CL-like ACOS proteins, Arabidopsis ACOS5 and its homologs in other species do not contain recognizable peroxisomal targeting sequences of type 1 at their C termini (CITATION). To empirically test the subcellular localization of ACOS5, we generated a yellow fluorescent protein (YFP)-tagged variant that was placed under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter (p35S:YFP-ACOS5) and transiently expressed this construct together with a reporter construct of a peroxisomal marker protein (p35S:RFP-SRL reporter) (CITATION). Red fluorescent protein (RFP) and YFP localization in single Arabidopsis epidermal cells was assayed by confocal laser scanning microscopy using appropriate filter sets for simultaneous and selective recording of RFP and YFP (Figure 2 ). While RFP-SRL–expressing cells displayed a punctate pattern typical of peroxisomal localization, YFP-ACOS5 localization did not coincide with this pattern; instead, YFP fluorescence was primarily restricted to the cytoplasm (Figure 2). This suggests that the ACOS5 enzyme is localized to the cytoplasm. [[FIGURE]] Previous experiments showed that Arabidopsis ACOS5 has a flower-preferred expression pattern, that the poplar homolog ACOS13 is expressed in male but not in female flowers (CITATION), and that the N. sylvestris homolog CL-lk is expressed specifically in the tapetum of developing anthers (CITATION). To explore the organ- and cell type–specific expression pattern of ACOS5, promoter sequences of variable length (1030, 1416, and 1620 bp) were fused to the β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene and integrated into the Arabidopsis genome. Several independent transgenic lines homozygous for a single copy of the ProACOS5:GUS gene fusion were analyzed for GUS activity. All lines yielded identical results, and representative data are shown in Figure 3 . No GUS expression was observed in vegetative organs of seedlings and plants (i.e., cotyledons, leaves, roots, and stems; Figures 3A and 3B). However, GUS expression was first evident in young flower buds at developmental stages 7 to 9 according to CITATION where it was restricted specifically to the developing anthers (Figures 3D to 3F). Beyond stage 9, GUS expression rapidly declined, with no GUS staining being detectable at anther maturity (Figure 3C). [[FIGURE]] We obtained an ACOS5 transposon insertion line (SM_3.37225) from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (NASC). Within the segregating population, plants homozygous for the ACOS5 insertion allele (acos5-1) were identified by PCR genotyping, and the location of the transposon insertion in the second exon of ACOS5 was verified (Figure 4A ). We assayed ACOS5 expression by RT-PCR in both wild-type and mutant flowers. Using primers flanking the insertion site, no ACOS5 mRNA could be detected in the mutant, indicating that functional ACOS5 mRNA does not accumulate in the mutant and that acos5-1 is likely to be a null allele of ACOS5 (Figure 4A). [[FIGURE]] Initial phenotypic analysis of the homozygous acos5-1 plants suggested that the plants were self-sterile, since siliques failed to mature and produce seeds. Careful examination of the mutant flowers revealed anthers that were apparently devoid of pollen grains (Figure 5A ). At a time when flowers of wild-type plants grown in parallel had self-pollinated and produced siliques with developing seeds, development of acos5 mutant flowers culminated in undeveloped siliques and complete absence of seed production (Figure 5A). There were no other obvious morphological differences between the acos5 mutant and wild-type plants grown to maturity (Figure 5A), except that acos5 mutant plants flowered for a longer time (Figure 5A), consistent with observations of other male sterile mutants (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Secondary wall formation and lignin deposition in anther endothecium cells is required for anther dehiscence and pollen release (CITATION; CITATION). Given the close relationship between ACOS5 and 4CL genes, we considered the possibility that the enzyme encoded by ACOS5 is required for lignin biosynthesis in the endothecium and that lack of lignification and anther dehiscence resulted in the loss of pollen release. To test this, we treated anthers in developing wild-type and acos5-1 mutant flowers with phloroglucinol, which stains lignin and other wall-bound phenolics. However, anthers from both wild-type and acos5-1 mutant plants stained equally well, suggesting that there is no defect in lignin deposition in the mutant and that ACOS5 activity is not required for lignin biosynthesis in the anther (Figure 5B). To investigate the basis for the failure of self-pollination in acos5 mutant plants, we used scanning electron microscopy to view anther development at higher resolution in wild-type and mutant flowers. acos5 mutant anthers underwent apparently normal development and dehiscence, but no pollen grains could be observed either in dehiscent anthers or attached to stigmata; by contrast, abundant pollen was observed in dehiscing wild-type anthers examined in parallel (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). The absence of pollen in acos5 mutant flowers, as observed by light or scanning electron microscopy, indicates that ACOS5 function is absolutely required for pollen maturation. When acos5 mutant plants were used as pollen recipients in crosses with pollen from wild-type plants, siliques developed normally and produced F1 seeds that germinated normally with no apparent loss in fecundity relative to self-pollinated wild-type plants. Since only one insertional mutant line was available for ACOS5, we allowed the F1 heterozygote plants derived from the above cross to self-pollinate to test the resulting F2 population for cosegregation of the male sterile phenotype with acos5-1. In this population, the male sterile mutant phenotype was inherited in a Mendelian fashion, with one-quarter of the 184 F2 progeny displaying male sterility (χ2 = 0.437; P > 0.4; n = 184), illustrating that the mutant phenotype is caused by a mutation at a single locus. Next, we determined the genotypes of 183 F2 plants. This analysis showed that the male sterile phenotype cosegregated with acos5-1 (51/51 acos5-1 homozygotes were male sterile, whereas all 132 individuals that were either ACOS5/acos5-1 heterozygotes or ACOS5 homozygotes were fertile). This strongly suggests that the male sterile phenotype and the complete block of pollen formation were caused by loss of function of the ACOS5 gene. To test for the ability of the ACOS5 gene to complement the male sterile phenotype in the acos5-1 background, we introduced an ∼4.4-kb DNA region from an Arabidopsis wild-type (Columbia-0 [Col-0]) plant, containing 1.9 kb of the promoter sequence and the complete transcribed region of ACOS5 (Figure 4B), into ACOS5/acos5-1 heterozygote plants by Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated transformation. Four T1 lines harboring the ACOS5 transgene were subjected to PCR-aided genotyping, and one was established as being ACOS5/ACOS5, one as being ACOS5/acos5-1, and two as being acos5-1/acos5-1. All plants were fully fertile, suggesting that the introduced ACOS5 transgene had complemented the acos5-1 mutation in the two homozygous lines. We further determined the genotypes and phenotypes of 18 T2 progeny from each T1 line that had inherited the ACOS5 transgene (i.e., that was either homozygous or hemizygous for the ACOS5 transgene, based on hygromycin resistance specified by the T-DNA insertion). For each T1 line, including the two that were homozygous for the acos5-1 allele and gave rise only to acos5-1/acos5-1 T2 progeny, all 18 T2 plants were fully fertile, confirming the ability of ACOS5 to complement the male sterile mutant phenotype. To identify the point at which pollen development was impaired in the acos5 mutant, we analyzed anther cross sections taken from wild-type (Col-0) and acos5 flowers at different stages of anther development, as defined by CITATION. Representative sections are shown in Figure 6 . Early stages of anther development in acos5 appeared normal. By stage 5, in both mutant and wild-type anthers, four defined locules were established and visible pollen mother cells had appeared. Subsequently, the pollen mother cells underwent meiosis and tetrads were formed, connected by a callose wall (stage 7) in both wild-type and acos5 plants. In both wild-type and acos5 mutant anthers, individual microspores could be seen at stage 8, indicating that the callose wall had degenerated, releasing the microspores from the tetrads in a normal manner. [[FIGURE]] At stage 9, the wild-type pollen grains became vacuolated, and an exine wall started to become visible, as evidenced by toluidine blue staining of the pollen grain walls. However, normal development seemed to be arrested in the acos5 mutant at this stage. Although the vacuoles were evident in some mutant microspores, microspores appeared malformed and distorted in shape, and exine walls were not as clearly evident as in the wild type (Figure 6). In place of the clearly developing microspores seen in the locules of wild-type anthers, stage 9 mutant locules were filled with misshapen structures. During stage 10, wild-type pollen grains continued to enlarge and develop, and the tapetum layer showed initial signs of degeneration. By contrast, in the mutant anthers at an age equivalent to stage 10, we observed degradation of both microspores and the tapetum (Figure 6). Thus, in the acos5 mutant, no developing pollen grains were observed at this stage, and the tapetum degenerated earlier than in wild-type plants. At stage 11, the tapetal cell layer was greatly degraded in wild-type anthers, and clear darkly staining pollen grains were seen. By contrast, although fully mature anthers appeared otherwise normal in the mutant, the locules were empty, devoid of pollen grains (Figure 6). These data suggest that the acos5 male sterile phenotype is manifested relatively late in anther and microspore development, at stages 8 and 9 (free microspore stages) when exine formation and sporopollenin deposition occur. To further pinpoint the stage of anther development defective in the acos5 mutant, we used transmission electron microscopy to gain higher-resolution images of developing anthers in the acos5 mutant and compared these to the corresponding images from wild-type plants. Figures 7A to 7D show that, at stage 7, characterized by the presence of tetrads that form after meiosis, wild-type and acos5 mutant microspores were similar in morphology, with characteristic callose walls. At this stage, tapetal cells in the mutant appeared normal. At stage 8, when free microspores had been released from tetrads following callose wall hydrolysis, massive deposition of a thick sporopollenin-containing exine on the nexine layer was evident in the wild-type anthers (Figures 7E and 7F). The exine had started to develop into a thick, reticulated wall characteristic of pollen grains, residual primexine was visible in spaces of exine baculae, which are characteristic of this stage (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), and microspores were nonvacuolated. In comparison with the wild type, free acos5 mutant microspores at stage 8 had a similar nonvacuolated morphology but contained thinner walls that were devoid of the pronounced reticulate exine wall seen in the wild type (Figures 7G and 7H). In place of a well-defined exine, these microspores contained an amorphous substance adhering to the nexine that could be residual primexine or unpolymerized sporopollenin precursors. Again, tapetal cells at this stage appeared normal. [[FIGURE]] At stage 9, wild-type pollen grains contained thick, reticulated exine walls and an intine layer. In stage 9 of the acos5 mutant, many pollen grains were in various stages of lysis and degradation (Figure 7K) and had thin cell walls that were devoid of a characteristic exine layer (Figure 7L) but often retained amorphous wall material outside the intine and apparent nexine. In other cases, relatively intact pollen grains were observed in acos5 anthers at stage 9 (Figure 7M), but in many cases, pollen walls were completely devoid of wall material outside the intine (Figure 7N). Again, tapetal cells in the acos5 mutant anthers appeared normal at this stage (Figures 7K and 7M), suggesting that the defect in acos5 pollen development is primarily due to the lack of sporopollenin deposition and exine formation, rather than a general defect in tapetal cell development. This analysis pinpoints the defect in microspore development in the acos5 mutant to the deposition of the sporopollenin-rich exine wall at stages 8 and 9 of anther development, while other aspects of anther development, including tapetal cell development, appear normal. To gain insight into the spatio-temporal pattern of ACOS5 expression in anthers, we performed in situ hybridization using an ACOS5-derived probe and developing wild-type flowers. Figure 8A shows that ACOS5 was strongly, specifically, and transiently expressed in the tapetal cell layer of developing anthers. At the beginning of stage 5, locules with microspore mother cells and a distinct tapetum were evident, but no hybridization signal was observed. Toward the end of stage 5, clear but relatively weak hybridization of the probe to the developing tapetum was detected. By stage 7, which is characterized by the presence of tetrads within the locules, maximal hybridization was seen in the tapetum. By stage 8, during which microspores were released from tetrads, hybridization to tapetal cells weakened and disappeared by stage 11. Similarly, GUS reporter activity was restricted to the tapetum in transgenic lines harboring the 1030-bp ProACOS5:GUS fusion (Figure 8B). Collectively, these results demonstrate that ACOS5 expression is highly specific to tapetal cells and is highest in the stages immediately preceding the appearance of the visible phenotype at stage 8. The results are consistent with an ACOS5 function in tapetal cells, which are known to be the sites for the biosynthesis of sporopollenin precursors required for exine formation in developing microspores (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] We previously described the heterologous expression of ACOS5 in Escherichia coli and its application in a substrate/activity screen using an ATP depletion assay (CITATION). Among >80 potential substrates tested, in vitro activity was observed only against several long-chain fatty acids (i.e., octadecanoic, oleic, linoleic, and linolenic acids), suggesting that ACOS5 possibly functions as a fatty acyl-CoA synthetase. This activity was confirmed in vivo by the capacity of ACOS5 to complement the deficient acyl-CoA synthetase in the E. coli fadD mutant by rescuing growth on oleic acid (C18:1) (CITATION). Further analysis showed that ACOS5 could also rescue growth on saturated medium-chain fatty acids of chain length C8 to C14, whereas fadD growth on shorter-chain fatty acids (C6 and C4) was not supported. To extend these results, we used a more sensitive radioactive assay to directly and unequivocally demonstrate activity of recombinant ACOS5 against fatty acid substrates in vitro. When using 14C-labeled oleic acid as a substrate (20 μM), the affinity-purified recombinant ACOS5 protein displayed specific activities of CoA-ester formation ranging from 36 to 50 pkat/mg protein. Although this activity is low, it is comparable to that of other plant fatty acyl-CoA synthetases expressed in E. coli (CITATION; CITATION, CITATION; CITATION). Furthermore, activity was dependent on oleic acid, CoASH, ATP, and native enzyme. The identity of the oleic acid CoA-ester product was verified by mass spectrometry (see Supplemental Table 2 online). The enzyme showed Michaelis-Menten kinetics toward all of substrates, and the derived kinetic parameters are listed in Table 2 . The Km values in the low micromolar range for ACOS5 substrates have also been reported for other acyl-CoA synthetases (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Kinetic Properties of ACOS5 To test for the in vitro preference of ACOS5 for different fatty acid substrates, we applied a competition assay, which determined the conversion of oleic acid (20 μM) to the corresponding CoA ester in the presence of other potential substrates that acted as competitors. As predicted, addition of unlabeled oleic acid at concentrations of either 50 or 100 μM to the standard reaction mixes decreased the apparent rate of formation of the labeled reaction product to 27 and 15%, respectively (Figure 9A ). Among the saturated fatty acids, ACOS5 showed clear preference for those of medium-chain length (C10 to C14), which competed nearly as well as oleic acid, whereas fatty acids of longer or shorter chain length competed less efficiently (Figures 9A and 9B). When hydroxy fatty acids differing in chain length and substitution pattern were compared, large differences in competition activity were observed. Among the hydroxy-octanoic acids, 8-hydroxy octanoic acid (8OH-C8) competed better than oleic acid, whereas 2OH-C8 and 3OH-C8 were as inactive as unsubstituted octanoic acid or 5-dodecanolide, which served as a negative control (Figure 9C). Thus, the position of the hydroxyl group is critical for activity. Among the long-chain hydroxy fatty acids tested, 12OH-C18 and 16OH-C16 were the most efficient competitors, the latter exceeding the apparent effectiveness of oleic acid, whereas medium-chain hydroxy fatty acids (10OH-C10 and 12OH-C12) were again less active (Figure 9D). Intriguingly, the oxylipin OPC-8 impaired oleic acid conversion quite efficiently, whereas none of the hydroxycinnamic acids were effective above control values, with the possible exception of caffeic acid (Figure 9E). We confirmed the ability of ACOS5 to generate CoA esters of the hydroxylated fatty acids 8OH-C8 and 16OH-C16 by mass spectrometric analysis of CoA-esters formed in vitro by incubation of ACOS5 with the corresponding acids (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). From these results we conclude that ACOS5 is a medium- to long-chain fatty acyl-CoA synthetase with a preference for substituted fatty acids carrying a hydroxy group at position C8 to C16, whereas activity as a 4CL can be dismissed. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana wild-type (Col-0) and mutant plants were grown in soil (Sunshine mix 5; Sungrow Horticulture) in controlled environment chambers at 20°C under long-day conditions (18 h light). An Arabidopsis line with a transposon insertion in ACOS5 (N123936; synonymous with SM_3.37225) was obtained from the NASC and ABRC. Homozygous plants were identified by PCR using primers CLL4F and EcoRI reverse (see Supplemental Table 4 online) for detection of the endogenous gene, and CLL4F and dspn1 for detection of the transposon insertion. Homozygous plants were identified by PCR using primers 5RP and 5LP in combination with the T-DNA left-border primer LB1 (see Supplemental Table 4 online). Crosses of wild-type pollen to homozygous acos5 mutant plants were performed to obtain F2 generation plants. The patterns of ACOS5 transposon insertion allele segregation in the F2 generations were tested by χ2 statistical analysis of observed phenotypes and genotypes using GraphPad software (http://graphpad.com/quickcalcs/chisquared1.cfm), with expected values based on Mendelian segregation, observed values on the F2 population, and two degrees of freedom (genotypes) or one degree of freedom (phenotypes). The two-tailed P value of >0.4 suggested that the deviation of observed values from expected values was not significant. A 4368-bp ACOS5 genomic fragment was amplified using the Plantinum Taq DNA polymerase High Fidelity (Invitrogen) with gene-specific primers (see Supplemental Table 4 online) and cloned into pCR8/GW/TOPO (Invitrogen). After verification by sequencing, the fragment was subcloned into the pGWB1 Gateway binary vector (CITATION) and introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens. Then, acos5 heterozygous plants were transformed using the floral dip method (CITATION). T1 seeds were sown in half-strength Murashige and Skoog salts (Sigma-Aldrich), supplemented with 1% sucrose and 0.6% agar medium containing 25 mg/L hygromycin. Individual T1 lines were allowed to self-pollinate, and progeny genotypes were tested with respect to the ACOS5 locus, and the presence of respective transgenes was tested using PCR with the primers given in Supplemental Table 4 online. Genomic DNA extraction was performed using young leaf tissue ground in a bead beater at 4°C, with the use of the Nucleon PhytoPure Kit (Amersham-Pharmacia), according to the manufacturer's instructions. Arabidopsis RNA was isolated from tissues frozen in liquid nitrogen and ground to a fine powder using Trizol reagent (Gibco-BRL) following the manufacturer's instructions. RNA quality was assessed by visual inspection of rRNA on a 1.2% formaldehyde-agarose gel and quantified spectrophotometrically, and 2.5 μg RNA/20 μL reaction was used to generate first-strand cDNA using Superscript II Reverse Transcriptase (Invitrogen) following the manufacturer's protocol. For RT-PCR analysis of ACOS5 expression in T-DNA insertion lines, gene-specific and intron-spanning primers (see Supplemental Table 4 online) flanking the sites of the insertions were used in PCR reactions to amplify corresponding cDNA sequences under the following PCR conditions: 95°C for 3 min, 30 cycles of (94°C for 30 s, 56°C for 30 s, and 72°C for 1 min), and 72°C for 10 min, using Taq polymerase in a 50-μL reaction. PCR products were separated on 1% ethidium bromide agarose gels and photographed under a UV transilluminator using AlphaImager 1220. Actin1 was used as the control. The cDNA of ACOS5 was PCR amplified using the primer pair attb1fw-62940 and attb2rv-62940 (see Supplemental Table 4 online) and inserted into the expression vector pENSGYFP, resulting in an N-terminal fusion with YFP using the Gateway cloning system (Invitrogen) as previously described (CITATION). The dsRED fluorescent protein with the C-terminal extension –SRL served as the peroxisomal marker protein (CITATION). Both vectors allow the in planta expression of proteins under the control of the constitutive cauliflower mosaic virus double 35S promoter. For transient in planta expression, detached leaves of 4-week-old Arabidopsis (Col-0) plants were bombarded with 1-μm gold particles coated with vector DNA using the Biolistic PDS-1000/He Particle Delivery System (Bio-Rad Laboratories) and subsequently placed in a growth chamber for 36 h (CITATION). Fluorescence microscopy was performed using a LSM 510 Meta confocal laser microscope (Carl Zeiss). An argon laser was used as the excitation source (514 nm), and light emission was detected in the range of 570 to 634 nm for RFP constructs and 535 to 545 nm for YFP constructs. Images were recorded and processed using LSM 510 3.2 software (Carl Zeiss). GUS reporter lines of gene ACOS5 were created using Gateway technology (Invitrogen). Promoter sequences of 1620, 1416, and 1030 bp in length were PCR amplified from Arabidopsis (Col-0) genomic DNA using primer pairs Pfw1-62940 and Prv2-62940, Pfw3-62940 and Prv1-62940, and Pfw2-62940 and Prv1-62940, respectively (see Supplemental Table 4 online) and cloned into vector pJawohl11 upstream of uidA (GUS). The resulting plasmids were transferred into Arabidopsis (Col-0) plants by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation (CITATION). Transformants were selected on kanamycin-containing medium, and lines homozygous for a single insertion were identified in the T2 generation. These lines were grown in soil and liquid Murashige and Skoog medium and inspected for GUS expression at different developmental stages and after various treatments. For histochemical staining, seedlings or detached organs were placed in the GUS substrate solution (50 mM sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.0, 0.1% Triton X-100, 3 mM potassium ferricyanide, 3 mM potassium ferrocyanide, and 1 mM 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl β-d-glucuronide), and after 5 min of vacuum infiltration, samples were incubated overnight at 37°C and subsequently destained by a series of washes in 80% ethanol (CITATION). Heterologous expression in Escherichia coli strains DH5α or M15 and purification of recombinant ACOS5 was performed as previously described (CITATION; CITATION). Enzyme purity was inspected by SDS gel electrophoresis, and protein concentrations were determined according to the Bradford method (CITATION) with BSA as standard. Enzymatic activity of the recombinant protein was determined by a luciferase-coupled assay, which records the consumption of ATP, as previously described (CITATION). For detailed kinetic analyses, a more sensitive and accurate radioactive assay using [1-14C]oleic acid (specific activity 50 to 62 mCi mmol−1; GE Healthcare, Amersham Biosciences) was applied as previously described (CITATION). Briefly, the assay mixture (volume of 100 μL) contained 100 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.6, 10 mM MgCl2, 5 mM ATP, 2.5 mM DTT, 1 mM CoASH, 20 μM oleic acid (dissolved in 0.1% Triton X-100), and 2 μg of affinity purified protein . The assay was initiated by addition of CoASH (CoA) and incubated at room temperature for 10 min. The reaction was stopped by addition of 100 μL of 10% (v/v) acetic acid in isopropanol and extracted twice with 900 μL of hexane (saturated with 50% [v/v] isopropanol). Formation of the oleoyl-CoA ester was quantified in the aqueous phase by liquid scintillation counting, and the identity of the product was confirmed by mass spectrometry (see Supplemental Table 2 online). Km and Vmax values were obtained by linear regression of v/s against s (Hanes plots) from at least three independent experiments, in which the corresponding substrate concentrations were varied appropriately. For substrate competition assays, different fatty acids and cinnamic acid derivatives were added to the standard reaction mixture at 50 or 100 μM, and formation of oleoyl-CoA was quantified as above. Hydroxy fatty acids and CoA were obtained from Sigma-Aldrich and Fluka. The set of Arabidopsis 4CL genes (CITATION) was used in reciprocal BLAST searches to identify ACOS5 homologs as previously described by CITATION. All sequences obtained are given in Table 1 and Supplemental Table 1 online. Protein sequences were aligned using the Genomatix DIALIGN program (http://www.genomatix.de/cgi-bin/dialign/dialign.pl) (CITATION), and the multiple protein sequence alignments were manually optimized. Aligned sequences are shown in Supplemental Figure 3 online. Amino acid sequences used to generate these alignments are shown in Supplemental Data Set 1 online. To reconstruct phylogenetic trees, maximum likelihood analyses with 1000 bootstrap replicates were performed using PhyML v2.4.4 (CITATION) with the JTT model of amino acid substitution. Scanning electron microscopy was performed using a Hitachi S4700 microscope. Wild-type and homozygous mutant inflorescences were fixed overnight in 2% glutaraldehyde, washed and postfixed in 1% osmium tetraoxide in 0.05 M PIPES buffer, pH 7.0, and dehydrated using a series of graded ethanol solutions (30 to 100%). Dried samples were gold sputter coated (Nanotech SEMPrep II sputter coater). To obtain cross sections of developing anthers, wild-type and homozygous mutant inflorescences were fixed in FAA (4% paraformaldehyde, 15% acetic acid, and 50% ethanol) overnight and directly dehydrated without postfixation. Samples were then transferred to a propylene oxide solution and slowly infiltrated with Spurr's epoxy resin (Canemco). For bright-field microscopy, 1-μm sections were cut with glass knives (Leica) on a microtome, mounted on glass slides, heat fixed to the slides, and stained with toluidine blue. Sections were photographed using a light microscope. All microscopy procedures described were performed in the UBC BioImaging Facility (http://www.emlab.ubc.ca). For transmission electron microscopy, Arabidopsis wild-type and acos5 mutant inflorescences were fixed with paraformaldehyde and postfixed in osmium tetraoxide. Fixed samples were dehydrated in an ethanol gradient up to 100% and then transferred to a propylene oxide solution and slowly embedded in Spurr's resin and allowed to polymerize for at least 48 h. Thin sections (70 nm) were taken using a diamond knife microtome (Reichert Ultracut E). Sections were placed on 100-mesh copper grids and stained for 30 min with uranyl acetate and for 15 min with lead citrate (Sato's Lead). Sections were visualized using a Hitachi H7600 transmission electron microscope. Arabidopsis Col-0 inflorescences were embedded in Paraplast (Sigma-Aldrich), sectioned at 8 μm thickness, and mounted onto precharged slides. For sense and antisense ACOS5 probe synthesis, 526-bp DNA template corresponding to the ACOS5 coding region was PCR amplified from flower cDNA using gene-specific forward and reverse primers (see Supplemental Table 4 online). A T7 polymerase binding site was incorporated into the forward primer for sense probe amplification and in the reverse primer for antisense probe amplification. Digoxigenin-labeled probes were transcribed off the template using T7 polymerase (Roche). Probes were shortened to 200-bp fragments by limited carbonate hydrolysis, quantified, and hybridized to slides. Tissue fixation, embedding, hybridization, and signal detection are described by CITATION). Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: Arabidopsis ACOS5, At1g62940; Arabidopsis Actin1, At2g37620. Sequence data for all other genes described in this article can be found in the relevant databases using the accession numbers or gene models given in Supplemental Table 1 online. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Scanning Electron Micrographs of Wild-Type (Col-0) and acos5 Mutant Anthers. Supplemental Figure 2. Mass Spectrometric Analysis of CoA-Esters Formed in Vitro by ACOS5. Supplemental Figure 3. Alignment of Amino Acid Sequences Used to Generate the Phylogenetic Tree Shown in Figure 1 and Supplemental Figure 4A Online. Supplemental Figure 4. Relationship of ACOS5 and Clade A Acyl-CoA Synthetase Proteins to Cotton ACS1 and ACS2 Proteins. Supplemental Table 1. Genes Used for Phylogenetic Reconstruction Shown in Figure 1. Supplemental Table 2. Molecular Masses of CoA-Ester Products Formed in Vitro from Different Fatty Acids by ACOS5. Supplemental Table 3. Coexpression of CYP703A2 and MS2 with ACOS5. Supplemental Table 4. Primer Sequences Used for PCR and RNA Probe Generation. Supplemental Data Set 1. Sequences Used to Generate the Phylogeny Presented in Figure 1 and Supplemental Figure 4A Online.
