!~ABS~! The dual affinity of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase for O2 and CO2 results in the net loss of fixed carbon and energy in a process termed photorespiration. The photorespiratory cycle is complex and occurs in three organelles, chloroplasts, peroxisomes, and mitochondria, which necessitates multiple steps to transport metabolic intermediates. Genetic analysis has identified a number of mutants exhibiting photorespiratory chlorosis at ambient CO2, including several with defects in mitochondrial serine hydroxymethyltransferase (SHMT) activity. One class of mutants deficient in SHMT1 activity affects SHM1, which encodes the mitochondrial SHMT required for photorespiration. In this work, we describe a second class of SHMT1-deficient mutants defective in a distinct gene, GLU1, which encodes Ferredoxin-dependent Glutamate Synthase (Fd-GOGAT). Fd-GOGAT is a chloroplastic enzyme responsible for the reassimilation of photorespiratory ammonia as well as for primary nitrogen assimilation. We show that Fd-GOGAT is dual targeted to the mitochondria and the chloroplasts. In the mitochondria, Fd-GOGAT interacts physically with SHMT1, and this interaction is necessary for photorespiratory SHMT activity. The requirement of protein–protein interactions and complex formation for photorespiratory SHMT activity demonstrates more complicated regulation of this crucial high flux pathway than anticipated.
!~RES~! Homozygous shm1-1 (originally called stm; CITATION) mutants exhibit a severe photorespiratory phenotype of lethal chlorosis under low CO2, and the requirement for supplementary CO2 is absolute (CITATION) (compare Figure 1A, the glabra1 [gl1] mutant that serves as the isogenic wild type to shm1-1 in Figure 1B; see Supplemental Figures 1A and 1B for seedlings grown at elevated CO2 ). By contrast, a second stm allele, herein called glu1-201, that confers a similar reduction in SHMT activity (Table 1 ) will grow without added CO2 in dim (∼50 to 75 μmol·m−2·s−1) light, although the plants are chlorotic and considerably smaller than the wild type (Figure 1C; see Supplemental Figure 1C online). Although we initially attributed this less severe phenotype to a partial loss of SHM1 function, we failed to identify any nucleotide lesion in the coding sequence and promoter region of SHM1 in the mutant. Unexpectedly, the F1 progeny from crosses of this second allele with shm1-1 were not chlorotic in low CO2 (Figure 1F; see Supplemental Figure 1F online) and showed wild-type levels of SHMT activity (Table 1). This genetic complementation suggests that this mutation, although previously thought to be allelic with shm1-1, is a mutation in a distinct gene. [[FIGURE]] Phenotypic analysis of photorespiratory mutants. We established that this second mutation maps to a position near the top of chromosome V between the markers CTR1.2 and NGA151, which is distinct from the positions of any of the seven SHM genes (Figure 2A ). Further analysis using 300 F2 chlorotic plants positioned the mutation close to GLU1, which encodes photorespiratory Fd-GOGAT (CITATION). We therefore tested the hypothesis that our mutation was a novel allele of GLU1 by genetic complementation. Indeed, introduction into the mutant background of the wild-type GLU1 gene driven by either the 35S promoter or the endogenous GLU1 promoter both rescued the photorespiratory phenotype of chlorosis at low CO2 (Figures 1G and 1I; see Supplemental Figures 1G and 1I online) and restored wild-type levels of SHMT activity (Table 1). Accordingly, we conclude that this SHMT-defective photorespiratory phenotype is conferred by a novel allele of GLU1 designated glu1-201. Earlier authors called glu1 mutants gluS (CITATION), gltS (CITATION), or gls (CITATION), but we propose to revise the mutant designation to be consistent with the accepted gene name. [[FIGURE]] Consistent with the identification of GLU1 as the gene responsible for the photorespiratory phenotype and loss of SHMT activity in glu1-201, there is a single nucleotide change (C6410T) between the wild type and mutant that changes amino acid 1270 from Leu to Phe. Protein gel blot analysis indicates that Fd-GOGAT accumulates to approximately normal levels in glu1-201 seedlings, consistent with a point mutation that does not disrupt protein accumulation (Figure 3A). SHMT1 protein levels are unaffected in the glu1-201 mutant, although SHMT1 protein is below detectable levels in the shm1-1 mutant (Figure 3A ). As indicated above, introduction of the wild-type GLU1 gene driven by either its endogenous promoter or the 35S promoter into glu1-201 rescues the photorespiratory chlorosis phenotype and restores wild-type levels of SHMT activity (Figures 1G and 1I, Table 1; see Supplemental Figures 1G and 1I online). However, introduction of a modified GLU1 carrying the L1270F mutation driven by the 35S promoter into glu1-201 fails to rescue chlorosis or to restore wild-type levels of SHMT activity (Figure 1L, Table 1; see Supplemental Figure 1L online) in plants growing at ambient CO2 levels, consistent with this mutation conferring the photorespiratory phenotype. [[FIGURE]] Loss-of-function mutations in GLU1 had been previously demonstrated to exhibit photorespiratory chlorosis and loss of Fd-GOGAT activity (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We confirmed that a T-DNA insertion mutant (Salk_104286, termed glu1-202), in which the T-DNA has inserted into the 2nd exon of GLU1, lacks Fd-GOGAT protein (Figure 3A) and exhibits reduced Fd-GOGAT activity (Table 1) and photorespiratory chlorosis (compare Figure 1D with the isogenic wild type, Columbia-0 [Col-0], in Figure 1E and Supplemental Figures 1D and 1E online). This allele also confers a reduction in SHMT activity (Table 1). The glu1-202 mutant is fully rescued by expression of wild-type GLU1 but not by glu1L1270F under control of the 35S promoter (Figures 1H, 1J, and 1M, Table 1; see Supplemental Figures 1H, 1J, and 1M online). The F1 plants resulting from a cross between glu1-201 and glu1-202 display photorespiratory chlorosis and reduced SHMT activity, indicating that the two mutations are allelic (Figure 1K, Table 1; see Supplemental Figure 1K online). glu1-201 has reduced SHMT activity but retains wild-type levels of Fd-GOGAT activity, suggesting that the positive effect of GLU1 on SHMT activity is independent of Fd-GOGAT catalytic activity. To test this, we generated a new allele of GLU1, glu1204, in which residues 299 to 1007, including the central domain and parts of the N-terminal aminotransferase domain and the FMN binding domain, are deleted in frame (Figure 2C). The glu1204 allele fails to rescue either photorespiratory chlorosis or Fd-GOGAT activity when introduced into glu1-202 (Figure 1O, Table 1; see Supplemental Figure 1O online), consistent with its predicted lack of Fd-GOGAT catalytic activity. However, the glu1204 allele fully rescues photorespiratory chlorosis and SHMT activity when introduced into the glu1-201 mutant (Figure 1N, Table 1; see Supplemental Figure 1N online). Thus, we conclude that wild-type levels of photorespiratory SHMT activity require Fd-GOGAT expression (although not catalytic activity) and that a mutation of L1270F results in a glu1 species that is unable to sustain wild-type SHMT activity, even though it retains wild-type Fd-GOGAT activity. It is surprising and puzzling that the wild-type GLU1 gene, which encodes a chloroplastic Fd-GOGAT (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), rescues a mutant lacking mitochondrial SHMT activity (CITATION). Because Fd-GOGAT catalytic activity is not required for this rescue, we speculated that perhaps a physical interaction between SHMT and Fd-GOGAT might be necessary for full SHMT activity. Such a physical interaction would require common localization of Fd-GOGAT and SHMT1, which seemed unlikely as photorespiratory SHMT activity is known to be mitochondrial (CITATION), whereas photorespiratory Fd-GOGAT activity is chloroplastic (CITATION). At this time, the Subcellular Proteomics Database does not provide proteomic data to support a mitochondrial localization of Fd-GOGAT (CITATION). Therefore, to verify these localizations, we performed microscopy analyses and biochemical fractionation experiments. First, we made C-terminal GFP fusions to SHMT1 and to Fd-GOGAT in constructs driven by the endogenous SHM1 and GLU1 promoters, respectively. These transgenes were introduced into shm1-1 and glu1-201 seedlings to yield stably transformed lines. Each GFP fusion construct rescued the photorespiratory defect of the corresponding loss-of-function mutant. Protoplasts were generated from leaves of these rescued lines and analyzed by fluorescence microscopy. SHMT1-GFP showed green punctate fluorescence (Figure 4A ) that colocalized with fluorescence from the MitoTracker Red mitochondrial marker (Figures 4B and 4C), confirming that SHMT1 is targeted to the mitochondria. As expected, Fd-GOGAT-GFP showed chloroplastic localization (cf. the GFP fluorescence Figure 4E with the differential interference contrast image of Figure 4H). Unexpectedly, Fd-GOGAT-GFP also showed green punctate fluorescence (Figure 4E) that colocalized with the MitoTracker Red mitochondrial marker (Figures 4F and 4G). This result indicates that Fd-GOGAT is targeted to both the chloroplasts and the mitochondria. [[FIGURE]] Second, we performed biochemical fractionation experiments to confirm our microscopy observations. Fd-GOGAT was detected by protein gel blot analysis of wild-type Col seedlings in both chloroplastic and mitochondrial fractions (Figure 3B). By contrast, SHMT1 was detected in mitochondrial but not in chloroplastic fractions. As expected, the photosystem II chlorophyll binding protein D1 PSBA was detected in chloroplastic but not in mitochondrial fractions (Figure 3B). These data are consistent with our microscopy localizations of GFP fusion proteins. Therefore, we conclude that Fd-GOGAT is dual targeted to both chloroplasts and mitochondria. An increasing number of examples have been described in which proteins are dual targeted to both the chloroplast and mitochondrion (CITATION; CITATION). Dual targeting is typically accomplished by the presence of tandem chloroplastic and mitochondrial targeting sequences or else by the presence of an ambiguous presequence that is recognized by the import apparatus of both organelles. We hypothesized that Fd-GOGAT may be dual targeted to mitochondria and chloroplasts by use of multiple translation starts (CITATION). Inspection of the sequence of Fd-GOGAT revealed two Met residues representing potential translation initiation sites at positions 1 and 3. Computer predictions (PSORT and TargetP; CITATION; CITATION) suggested that initiation at the first ATG codon would allow chloroplastic targeting, whereas initiation at the second ATG would confer mitochondrial targeting. Accordingly, we generated three constructs based on the GLU1 cDNA fused in frame to GFP and driven by the GLU1 promoter. The first encodes simply the wild-type Fd-GOGAT sequence (MAM) and is predicted to be targeted to the chloroplast (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). The second construct, Fd-GOGATM1K (KAM), would be translated from the second Met and is predicted to be targeted to the mitochondrion. The third, Fd-GOGATM3I (MAI), is predicted to be targeted to the chloroplast. All three clones were transformed into the glu1-201 mutant. We first tested for subcellular localization in protoplasts derived from stable transformants carrying the three constructs. As predicted, Fd-GOGAT and Fd-GOGATM1K show punctate fluorescence that colocalizes with the mitochondrial marker (Figures 4E to 4L), whereas Fd-GOGATM3I shows chloroplastic and not mitochondrial localization (Figures 4M to 4P). The transgenic glu1-201 plants carrying Pmas:glu1M1K and PGLU1:GLU1 are rescued to a wild-type phenotype under photorespiratory (ambient CO2) conditions and express wild-type levels of SHMT activity (Figures 1I and 1Q, Table 1; see Supplemental Figures 1I and 1Q online). Similarly, glu1M1K lacking the C-terminal GFP and driven from the Agrobacterium tumefaciens mannopine synthase (mas) promoter rescued glu1-201 plants to a wild-type phenotype under photorespiratory (ambient CO2) conditions (Figure 1Q, Table 1; see Supplemental Figure 1Q online). However, those glu1-201 plants transformed with Pmas:glu1M3I remain chlorotic at ambient CO2 and have low SHMT activity (Figure 1S, Table 1; see Supplemental Figure 1S online). This is consistent with a requirement for Fd-GOGAT to be targeted to the mitochondria to play its role in expression of wild-type levels of SHMT activity. The photorespiratory chlorosis of glu1-202 plants was not rescued by Pmas:glu1M1K (Figure 1R, Table 1; see Supplemental Figure 1R online) but was rescued by Pmas:glu1M3I (Figure 1T, Table 1; see Supplemental Figure 1T online). Dual targeting has also been shown to result from upstream translation from non-ATG start codons to generate a mitochondrial isoform, while translation from the ATG yields a chloroplastic isoform (CITATION). Interestingly, GLU1 has an in-frame GTG alternate initiation codon at position −17. We tested the importance of upstream translation to Fd-GOGAT dual targeting with two further constructs (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). In one, Pmas:glu1M1KM31, we mutagenized both ATG start codons. This construct would be expected to rescue either glu1-201 or glu1-202 seedlings if translation from the upstream GTG codon could yield a mitochondrial or a chloroplastic Fd-GOGAT isoform, respectively. However, Pmas:glu1M1KM31 does not rescue either mutant (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). In the second construct, we introduced a stop codon at position −6, in between the upstream GTG start and the ATG start codons at positions 1 and 3. If translation from the upstream GTG were required for dual targeting, then this construct, Pmas:glu1−6STOP, would not be expected to rescue both glu1-201 and glu1-202. However, Pmas:glu1−6STOP rescues both mutants (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). Therefore, we conclude both that upstream translation initiation is not necessary for dual targeting of Fd-GOGAT to both chloroplasts and mitochondria and that upstream translation initiation is not sufficient to yield enough Fd-GOGAT to support either its mitochondrial or its chloroplastic photorespiratory functions. One hypothesis to explain the requirement of mitochondrial Fd-GOGAT for photorespiratory SHMT activity is that Fd-GOGAT forms physical complexes with SHMT. To test this hypothesis, we performed coimmunoprecipitation on mitochondria purified from leaf extracts by Percoll density centrifugation using an antibody against SHMT to immunoprecipitate SHMT1 and any interacting proteins. We probed those immunoprecipitates with an antibody against Fd-GOGAT (Figure 5A ). To test for the presence of Fd-GOGAT and SHMT, input extracts were probed with antibodies against Fd-GOGAT and SHMT as well as with an antibody against the β-subunit of the inner mitochondrial membrane F1-ATPase as a loading control (Figure 5B). As can be seen in Figure 5A, Fd-GOGAT was coimmunoprecipitated with SHMT1 from wild-type Col extracts, indicating that these two proteins form a complex in wild-type leaves. In the absence of SHMT1 in the shm1-1 mutant, Fd-GOGAT was not coimmunoprecipitated, indicating that the coimmunoprecipitation is dependent upon SHMT1 protein and not due to cross-reaction with another protein. The specificity of our assay for GLU1-encoded Fd-GOGAT is established by the failure to coimmunoprecipitate Fd-GOGAT protein from the glu1-202 mutant (Figure 5A), which lacks photorespiratory Fd-GOGAT (Figure 3, Table 1). Expression of GLU1 driven by the 35S promoter in the glu1-202 background restores Fd-GOGAT protein capable of coimmunoprecipitation with SHMT1 (Figure 5A), consistent with its full rescue of the photorespiratory phenotype (Figure 1H, Table 1; see Supplemental Figure 1H online). The L1270F mutation in glu1-201 eliminates coimmunoprecipitation of Fd-GOGAT with SHMT1 (Figure 5A), consistent with the photorespiratory phenotype (Figure 1C, Table 1; see Supplemental Figure 1C online), despite the presence of wild-type levels of Fd-GOGAT (Figures 3 and 5B). This result implicates this residue (L1270) in a role critical for interaction with SHMT1 and suggests that the photorespiratory phenotype associated with the glu1-201 mutation results from a loss of interaction of Fd-GOGAT with SHMT1. The glu1204 deletion of ∼2 kb of coding sequence, which eliminates regions required for known catalytic function, does not prevent interaction of Fd-GOGAT with SHMT1, as indicated by the immunoprecipitation of a truncated (∼100 kD) Fd-GOGAT species (Figure 5A). This is consistent with the ability of glu1204 to rescue the photorespiratory phenotype of glu1-201 (Figure 1N, Table 1; see Supplemental Figure 1N online) and implicates the C-terminal region of Fd-GOGAT, which includes L1270, in that interaction. [[FIGURE]] To independently test the in vivo interaction of Fd-GOGAT with SHMT, we performed BiFC (CITATION). We fused GLU1 and SHM1 to the N and C termini, respectively, of YFP and transfected the constructs singly or together into Col-0 protoplasts. YFP was placed at the C termini of the constructs to allow the Fd-GOGAT and SHMT1 targeting signals to confer normal subcellular localization. Neither construct alone yielded fluorescence, but when the two constructs were cotransfected, we observed punctate fluorescence that colocalized with the mitochondria (Figure 6 ). Thus, we conclude that Fd-GOGAT interacts with SHMT1 in vivo. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Seeds of the glu1-201 mutant (CS8010) and of the Salk T-DNA-Insertion line Salk_104286, glu1-202, were obtained from the ABRC (Ohio State University, Columbus, OH). Seeds were grown on soil in high (3%) CO2 growth chambers (Biochambers) at 22°C in long days (16 h white light at 100 μmol·m−2·s−1: 8 h dark). For mapping, seeds were vapor sterilized (CITATION) and germinated at room temperature in a 12-h-light/12-h-dark cycle on half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium (CITATION) in 3% CO2 in white light at a photon flux density of ∼100 μmol·m−2·s−1. Plantlets were transferred to soil after the first four primary leaves had emerged and grown at 22°C in long days (16 h white light at 100 μmol·m−2·s−1: 8 h dark) at ambient CO2 to score photorespiratory chlorosis. The plants were returned to the 3% CO2 growth chamber and the growth cycle was completed. The homozygous recessive mutant glu1-201 (Col gl1) was crossed to Landsberg erecta. The F1 progeny were allowed to self-fertilize, and in the F2 generation cosegregation of the photorespiratory (chlorotic at ambient CO2) phenotype with molecular markers was determined as described (CITATION; CITATION). Crude extracts for measuring SHMT activity were prepared by grinding 400 mg fresh leaf tissue at 4°C in 300 μL of extraction buffer (50 mM phosphate buffer, pH 7.5, 1 mM 2-mercaptoethanol, and 2.5 mM EDTA). Extracts for measuring Fd-GOGAT activity were prepared by grinding 2 g fresh leaves at 4°C in 1 mL of extraction buffer (50 mM HEPES, pH 7.5, 15 mM KCl, 1 mM EDTA, 1 mM DTT, and 1 mM PMSF). The extracts were cleared by centrifugation at 20,000g for 10 min. SHMT activity was assayed by the incorporation of radioactivity from l-[3-3H] serine into 5,10-methylene-tetrahydrofolate (CITATION) as modified by CITATION. Fd-GOGAT activity was determined spectrophotometrically by following the glutamine-dependent oxidation of NADPH at 340 nm (CITATION; CITATION). The reaction mixture contained 50 mM HEPES buffer, pH 8.5, 1% (v/v) 2-mercaptoethanol, 3.65 mM glutamine, 3 mM 2-oxoglutarate, 0.2 mM NADPH, 4 μM ferredoxin, and 0.2 mL plant extract in a final volume of 1 mL. To generate full-length cDNA clones, RNA was extracted from leaves of Col-0 and the glu1-201 mutant using the RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen). Amplification of GLU1 and glu1-201 cDNAs was performed using high-fidelity Taq polymerase (Promega) in three separate fragments with specific primers. We exploited restriction sites in the genomic sequence. The primers GOGAT start (5′-ATGGCGATGCAATCTCTTT-3′) and Rev1XhoI (5′-TACCAAATGGACGAATTT-3′) were used to amplify an 1120-bp fragment including the XhoI site at the position 1055. The second fragment between the XhoI and BamHI restriction sites was amplified using For1XhoI (5′-GAGGTTTCTTGGACATAACG-3′) and Rev2BamHI (5′-GTAGTGTTGGTGAATATCCA-3′). The third fragment was amplified using For2BamHI (5′-GGAATGTCACTTGGTGCTAT-3′) and Rev3 (5′-CTAAGCCGATTGAAATGTGA-3′). PCR-amplified products were cloned in the TA-cloning system (Promega). After appropriate restriction endonuclease digestion, the three resulting fragments, EcoRI-XhoI, XhoI-BamHI, and BamHI-NotI were isolated from agarose gels using the Gel Extraction Kit (Qiagen) and cloned into the appropriate sites in pENTR1A (Invitrogen). All clones were completely sequenced to ensure that no mutations had been introduced. A 10-kb fragment of GLU1 genomic DNA, which includes 1505 bp of the promoter region, was amplified from BAC clone F21E1 using a two-step PCR reaction and TaKaRa EX Taq polymerase (PanVera). The first product was generated with the specific primers GLU1B1 (5′-AAAAAGCAGGCTcccgatgcatgcatgtttatctt-3′) and GLU1B2 (5′-AGAAAGCTGGGTctgagcgatatgaagtg-3′) containing 12 nucleotides of attB sites (capitals) and gene-specific nucleotides (lower case). The resulting product was subjected to the second PCR step with attB adapter primers attB1 (5′-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCT-3′) and attB2 (5′-GGGGACCACTTTGTA CAAGAAAGCTGGGT-3′). The 10-kb fragment was cloned in pDONR207 by BP clonase (Invitrogen) and then transferred to the destination vector using LR Clonase. To generate C-terminal fusion proteins, the GLU1 and SHM1 genomic sequences lacking stop codons were amplified and recombined into pDONR207 (Invitrogen) and then into pMDC110 to fuse with GFP (CITATION). This clone was sequenced to confirm that the fusions were in frame. To generate overexpression lines, the GLU1 gene was transferred from pENTR1A, using LR Clonase (Invitrogen), to the modified binary vector pB7WG2D (CITATION) in which the 1060-bp 35S promoter was replaced by an ∼800-bp 35S promoter from pMDC32 (CITATION) or by the mas promoter from 35SpBARN (CITATION). The glu1204 allele, which encodes a truncated Fd-GOGAT protein lacking the catalytic region, was made by deleting ∼2 kb of coding sequence between BglII and BamHI restriction sites, the resulting plasmid was moved to destination vector pB7WG2D. Site-directed mutagenesis was used to create glu1M3I, encoding a chloroplast-targeted Fd-GOGAT, and glu1M1K, encoding a mitochondrion-targeted Fd-GOGAT. A GLU1 promoter fragment including the first 12 amino acids of the coding sequence and the HindIII site was PCR amplified (HindIII I M3I: 5′-GAGAAGCTTAGGAACAGGGGAAAGAGATTGGATCGCCAT-3′ and GLU1P SalI:5′-GAGGTCGACGCGTAAATTCACATATT-3′) and (HindIII M1K: 5′-GAGAAGCTTAGGAACAGGGGAAAGAGATTGCATCGCCTT-3′ and GLU1P SalI) to introduce the mutations (underlined in the primers) and appropriate restriction sites and then cloned in pENTR1A:GLU1 using the appropriate restriction enzymes. For plant transformation, plasmids were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain AGL1 and then into wild-type, glu1-201, or glu1-202 mutant plants by vacuum infiltration (CITATION). Transformants were selected on agar plates containing either 30 μg/mL Basta or 15 μg/mL hygromycin. Resistant seedlings were allowed to self, and T2 seeds were collected. Several lines (at least four) for each construct and genetic background were analyzed. Total leaf protein was extracted from ∼300 mg of ground frozen tissue mixed with 400 μL of extraction buffer containing 4 M urea, 2.5% SDS, 20% glycerol, 20 mM Tris, pH 6.8, 1 mM EDTA, 1 mM PMSF, and 0.2% Halt Protease Inhibitor (Pierce). Mitochondria and chloroplasts were isolated and purified by Percoll density gradient centrifugation (CITATION). Samples (20 μg protein per lane) were separated by SDS-PAGE (CITATION) and transferred to PVDF membrane (Millipore). Membranes were blocked for 2 h at room temperature with blocking buffer (5% powdered milk, 1% PBS, pH 7.4, and 0.05% Tween 20). Membranes were incubated for at least 4 h with primary rabbit polyclonal antibodies against SHMT (Agrisera), Fd-GOGAT (Agrisera), or PSBA (Agrisera) or mouse monoclonal antibodies against α-tubulin (Sigma-Aldrich) or the β-subunit of maize (Zea mays) F1-ATPase (CITATION). Excess antibodies were removed by washing the blot twice for 15 min in 1% milk, 1× PBS, and 0.1% Tween 20 and twice for 15 min in 1% PBST. Membranes were incubated with secondary antibody, either goat anti-rabbit IgG conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (Santa Cruz Biotechnology) or goat anti-mouse IgG conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (Bio-Rad) followed by washing as described above. Signals were detected using SuperSignal West Pico Chemiluminescent Substrate (Pierce) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Protein extracts were prepared by grinding 2 g fresh leaves at 4°C in 1 mL of lysis buffer (50 mM Tris, pH 7.5, 150 mM KCl, 1 mM EDTA, 1 mM DTT, 0.1% Triton X-100, 1 mM PMSF, and Halt Protease Inhibitor Cocktail [Pierce]) (CITATION). Extracts were pretreated with protein A agarose suspension (Calbiochem), cleared by centrifugation, and then incubated with anti-SHMT at 4°C for 2 h. Immunocomplexes were incubated with prewashed protein A agarose for 1 h at 4°C, collected by centrifugation, washed six times with 1 mL lysis buffer, suspended in 50 μL of 1× SDS loading buffer and boiled for 5 min. Twenty-five microliters of this solution was subjected to 8% SDS-PAGE electrophoresis. Twenty-five micrograms of total Col lysate was loaded on the same gel. Immunoblots to PVDF membrane were probed with anti-Fd-GOGAT as described above. Full-length GLU1 and SHM1 cDNAs were fused in frame to the N and C termini, respectively, of YFP using vectors pSPYNE-35S/pUC-SPYNE and pSPYCE-35S/pUC-SPYCE (CITATION). For BiFC, the fusion constructs were transfected together or singly by the polyethylene glycol method (CITATION) into wild-type Col protoplasts (CITATION). Briefly, leaves were cut into fine strips and incubated for 90 min at 28°C in 10 mL of protoplast medium containing 500 mM sorbitol, 1 mM CaCl2, 10 mM MES, pH 5.5, 0.5 mM polyvinylpolypyrrolidone, 0.1% BSA, 1.5% cellulase R10 (Yakult Honsha), and 0.1% macerozyme R10 (Yakult Honsha). Protoplasts were harvested by centrifugation at 100g for 2 min in protoplast medium without enzymes. For fluorescence detection, excitation was at 488 nm, and the fluorescence emission signal was collected between 498 and 561 nm. To visualize mitochondria, protoplasts were stained with 40 μM MitoTracker Red (Molecular Probes) with excitation at 568 nm and emission signal collected at 579 to 687 nm. Protoplasts from 2-week-old seedlings from stable transgenic lines were isolated as described (CITATION). Subcellular localization of the fusion proteins was determined by fluorescence microscopy as described above. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: 5-FCL (At5g13050), 10-FDF (At4g17360 and At5g47435), GL1 (At3g279920), GLN2 (At5g35630), GLU1 (At5g04140.1), SHM1 (At4g37930), and SQD1 (At4g33030). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Phenotypic Analysis of Photorespiratory Mutants at Ambient CO2. Supplemental Figure 2. Genotyping of Mutants and Transgenic Complementation Lines. Supplemental Figure 3. Phenotypic Analysis of Ability of Constructs Bearing Various glu1 Mutations to Rescue Growth of Photorespiratory Mutants, glu1-201 and glu1-202, at Ambient CO2.
