!~ABS~! The FRAGILE FIBER8 (FRA8) gene was previously shown to be required for the biosynthesis of the reducing end tetrasaccharide sequence of glucuronoxylan (GX) in Arabidopsis thaliana. Here, we demonstrate that F8H, a close homolog of FRA8, is a functional paralog of FRA8 involved in GX biosynthesis. The F8H gene is preferentially expressed in xylem cells, in which the secondary walls contain an abundant amount of GX, and the F8H protein is targeted to the Golgi where GX is synthesized. Overexpression of F8H in the fra8 mutant completely complemented the fra8 mutant phenotypes including the secondary wall thickness of fibers and vessels, vessel morphology, GX content and the abundance of the reducing end tetrasaccharide sequence of GX, indicating that F8H shares the same biochemical function as FRA8. Although the f8h mutant alone did not show any detectable cell wall defects, the f8h/fra8 double mutant exhibits an additional reduction in cell wall xylose level, a more severe deformation of vessels and an extreme retardation in plant growth compared with the fra8 mutant. Together, our findings suggest that F8H and FRA8 are functional paralogs and that they function redundantly in GX biosynthesis during secondary wall formation in the xylem.
!~RES~! It was previously reported that the Arabidopsis FRA8 gene has three homologs, i.e. At5g22940, At1g27440 and At5g61840, in the Arabidopsis genome (Zhong and Ye, CITATION). At1g27440 and At5g61840 are close homologs of tobacco NpGUT1, which is a putative pectin β-glucuronyltransferase that catalyzes the transfer of glucuronic acid onto rhamnogalacturonan II (Iwai et al. CITATION). At5g22940 is the closest homolog of FRA8, and its deduced amino acid sequence shares 69% similarity and 59% identity with FRA8 (Fig. 1A); therefore, we designated it as F8H. To examine the expression pattern of the F8H gene, we first analyzed its expression level in various organs and laser-microdissected cells from the inflorescence stems. Real-time quantitative PCR analysis showed that F8H was expressed in all organs examined, albeit at different levels (Fig. 1C), and it was highly expressed in the xylem cells but not in the pith and interfascicular fiber cells in the stems (Fig. 1B).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We next used the β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene to investigate the tissue-level expression of F8H in the seedlings and inflorescence stems. To ensure that the F8H sequence used contains all the cis-elements required for endogenous gene expression, a 3 kb 5′ upstream sequence, the entire exon and intron region, and a 2 kb 3′ downstream sequence of the F8H gene were included. The GUS reporter gene was inserted right before the stop codon of the F8H gene in a binary vector to create the F8H:GUS construct. Examination of the GUS activity in transgenic Arabidopsis seedlings expressing F8H:GUS revealed that the F8H gene was preferentially expressed in vascular strands with close association with xylem cells in leaf blades, petioles and roots (Fig. 2A, C, D). In elongating and non-elongating inflorescence stems, F8H was highly expressed in xylem cells, with little expression in interfascicular fiber cells (Fig. 2E, F), which is consistent with the expression data in the dissected cells (Fig. 1C). These results indicate that the F8H expression is associated with secondary wall thickening in xylem cells but not in interfascicular fibers. In addition to xylem cells, F8H is also highly expressed in guard cells (Fig. 2B), which develop secondary walls during their maturation (Mauseth CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Sequence analysis of F8H using the TMHMM2.0 program for prediction of transmembrane helices in proteins (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/service/TMHMM-2.0/;) indicates that F8H is a type II membrane protein containing a short cytoplasmic N-terminus followed by a single transmembrane helix and a long non-cytoplasmic C-terminus (Fig. 3A). To examine the subcellular localization of F8H, we co-expressed yellow fluorescent protein (YFP)-tagged F8H with a cyan fluorescent protein (CFP)-tagged Golgi marker (MUR4–CFP; Burget et al. CITATION) in carrot (Daucus carota) cells. It was found that although the YFP protein alone was distributed throughout the cytoplasm and the nucleus (Fig. 3B, C), F8H was co-localized with the Golgi marker MUR4 (Fig. 3D–G). These results demonstrate that F8H is a Golgi-localized protein.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The facts that F8H is a close homolog of FRA8 and it is preferentially expressed in xylem cells prompted us to test whether F8H is a functional paralog of FRA8. To investigate its ability to rescue the fra8 mutant phenotypes, we overexpressed F8H under the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter in the fra8 mutant. The presence of the F8H transgene (Fig. 4A) and its overexpression (Fig. 4B) was confirmed in the transgenic fra8 mutant plants. It was previously shown that the fra8 mutant exhibited a small plant size and weak stem strength, which were accompanied by a reduction in secondary cell wall thickness and a deformation of vessels (Zhong et al. CITATION). Examination of the transgenic plants in their first generation revealed that among 128 independent lines, 95 of them had a wild-type plant size and their stem mechanical strength was similar to that of the wide type (Fig. 4C, D), indicating that F8H can functionally complement the fra8 mutant.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We next examined the secondary wall thickness of vessels and fibers, and the morphology of vessels in the transgenic lines. It was found that the wall thickness of interfascicular fibers, xylary fibers and vessels in the stems of the F8H-complemented fra8 plants was restored to a level similar to that of the wild type (Figs. 5, 6; Table 1). The wall thickness of xylary fibers and vessels in the roots of the F8H-complemented fra8 plants was also nearly identical to that of the wild type (Figs. 5, 6; Table 1). In addition, the vessels in the F8H-complemented fra8 plants had regular shapes like those in the wild type (Figs. 5, 6). These results demonstrate that F8H overexpression rescues the secondary wall defects caused by the fra8 mutation, and thus restores the stem mechanical strength.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The reduced secondary wall thickness and deformed vessel phenotype in the fra8 mutant were a result of a reduction in the amount of GX and cellulose (Zhong et al. CITATION). To ascertain whether the rescue of the secondary wall defects by F8H overexpression is due to a restoration of the GX and cellulose content, we analyzed the monosaccharide composition of cell walls isolated from the stems of the F8H-complemented fra8 plants. It was found that overexpression of F8H in fra8 completely restored the amount of xylose and glucose to the wild-type level (Table 2). The restoration in the GX content was further confirmed by immunodetection of GX using a xylan monoclonal antibody LM10, showing that the GX signals in the walls of fibers and vessels in both stems and roots of the F8H-complemented fra8 plants are similar to those of the wild type (Fig. 7). It was noted that although the vessels in the roots of the F8H-complemented fra8 plants all showed strong GX signals, some of them were still deformed (Fig. 7E), indicating that the secondary wall strength in the root vessels is not completely restored. This lack of complete rescue of the root vessel morphology is probably due to a weak expression of F8H driven by the CaMV 35S promoter in root vessels.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The fra8 mutation results in a loss of the α-d-GlcA side chains in GX and a severe reduction in the abundance of the GX reducing end tetrasaccharide sequence. The latter is considered to be the cause of the impaired GX biosynthesis in the fra8 mutant (Peña et al. CITATION). To investigate whether F8H overexpression can complement the structural defects in GX caused by the fra8 mutation, we analyzed the structure of GX isolated from the stems of the F8H-complemented fra8 plants. The KOH-solubilized GX was digested with endoxylanase and the acidic xylooligosaccharides produced by the digestion were analyzed by matrix-assisted laser-desorption ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS). It was found that although the acidic xylooligosacchrides from fra8 contained only the ion peak [M + Na]+ at mass-to-charge ratios (m/z) of 759, which is attributed to xylooligosaccharides with four Xyl residues substituted with one 4-O-Me- α-d-GlcA, those from the F8H-complemented fra8 showed an additional ion peak with an m/z of 745 that is attributed to xylotetrasaccharides substituted with one non-methylated α-d-GlcA, a spectrum identical to that of the wild type (Fig. 8). The MALDI-TOF MS analysis demonstrates that F8H overexpression rescues the loss of α-d-GlcA side chains in GX caused by the fra8 mutation.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The acidic xylooligosaccharides produced from the xylanase digestion of GX were further analyzed for the GX reducing end tetrasaccharide sequence using nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectrometry (Fig. 9). The resonances that are assigned to the GX reducing end tetrasaccharide sequence β-d-Xyl-(1→3)- α-l-Rha-(1→2)- α-d-GalA-(1→4)-d-Xyl include H1 of α-d-GalA, H1 of α-l-Rha, H1 of 3-linked β-d-Xyl, H4 of α-d-GalA and H2 of α-l-Rha (Peña et al. CITATION). It was found that although the resonances for the GX reducing end tetrasaccharide were nearly absent in the 1H-NMR spectrum of fra8 GX, they were restored to the wild-type level in the GX from the F8H-complemented fra8 plants (Fig. 9). Consistent with the MALDI-TOF MS results showing that F8H overexpression restores the α-d-GlcA side chains in GX (Fig 8), the resonances assigned to H1 and H5 of α-d-GlcA and H1 of branched β-d-Xyl residues bearing an α-d-GlcA residue, which were absent in fra8, were restored to the wild-type level in the F8H-complemented fra8 plants (Fig. 9). These results suggest that F8H performs the same biochemical function as FRA8 in their involvement in GX biosynthesis.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Because both F8H and FRA8 are expressed in xylem cells (Figs. 1C, 2; Zhong et al. CITATION), it is possible that they function redundantly in the biosynthesis of secondary walls in xylem cells. To test this hypothesis, we generated a double mutant of F8H and FRA8. A T-DNA insertion mutation of F8H (SALK_113642; Fig. 10A, B), which disrupts the GT signature motif of F8H (Fig. 1A), did not exhibit any defects in plant stem strength (Fig. 4D) and secondary wall thickness (Fig. 5J-L). However, double mutations of F8H and FRA8 result in a severe retardation in plant growth. The rosette size of 4-week-old f8h/fra8 double mutant plants was much smaller than that of the fra8 mutant (Fig. 10C). The double mutant plants did not bolt and remained the same size after 8 weeks of growth when the wild-type plants reached adult stage (Fig. 10D) or even after 3 months of growth. Examination of xylem cells in the leaf petioles revealed that whereas the vessels in the wild type had regular shapes (Fig. 11A) and those in fra8 were deformed but clearly discernible (Fig. 11B), the vessels in the f8h/fra8 double mutant were so severely collapsed that they were hardly recognizable (Fig. 11C). Similarly, the vessels in the roots of the f8h/fra8 double mutant were also severely collapsed (Fig. 11D–F). Monosaccharide composition analysis of cell walls extracted from the leaves showed that the f8h/fra8 double mutant had a further reduction in xylose content compared with fra8 (Table 3). These results suggest that F8H and FRA8 function redundantly in the biosynthesis of secondary walls in vessels.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! For analysis of F8H expression in different cell types, the interfascicular fiber cells, xylem cells and pith cells from non-elongating regions of inflorescence stems of 6-week-old A. thaliana plants were isolated using the PALM microlaser system (PALM Microlaser Technologies, Bernried, Germany) and used for RNA isolation and amplification as described (Zhong et al. CITATION). For analysis of F8H expression in different organs, total RNA was isolated from seedlings, leaves, roots, stems and flowers using a Qiagen RNA isolation kit (Valencia, CA, USA). The seedlings used were 2 weeks old. Mature leaves and mature roots were from 6-week-old plants. Stems from 6-week-old plants were divided into top, middle and bottom parts. For quantitative PCR analysis, total RNA was treated with DNase I and used for first-strand cDNA synthesis. The first-strand cDNA was then used as template for real-time quantitative PCR analysis with the QuantiTect SYBR Green PCR Kit (Clontech, Mountain View, CA, USA). The relative mRNA level was determined by normalizing the PCR threshold cycle number of the F8H gene with that of the EF1α reference gene. The expression level of the F8H gene in the pith cells (for different cell types) or mature leaves (for different organs) was set to 1 and the data were the average of three biological replicates. The developmental expression pattern of F8H was studied using the GUS reporter gene. A genomic DNA fragment containing a 3 kb 5′ upstream sequence, the entire exon and intron region, and a 2 kb 3′downstream sequence of the F8H gene was used to ensure that the sequence used contains all the cis-elements required for the endogenous gene expression. The GUS reporter gene was inserted in-frame right before the stop codon of the F8H gene and then cloned into the binary vector pBI101 (Clontech) to create the F8H:GUS reporter construct. The construct was transformed into wild-type Arabidopsis plants by the Agrobacterium-mediated transformation procedure. The first generation of transgenic plants was selected on kanamycin and used for expression analysis of the GUS reporter gene as described previously (Zhong et al. CITATION). The co-localization of fluorescent protein-tagged F8H with the Golgi marker was carried out in carrot protoplasts as described (Zhong et al. CITATION). The full-length F8H cDNA was fused in-frame with the YFP cDNA and ligated between the CaMV 35S promoter and the nopaline synthase terminator in a high copy vector. The fusion protein thus generated will have the YFP tag at the C-terminus. The F8H–YFP construct was co-transfected into carrot (D. carota) protoplasts together with CFP-tagged MUR4, a UDP-d-xylose 4-epimerase known to be localized in the Golgi (Burget et al. CITATION). After 20 h incubation, the transfected protoplasts were examined for yellow and cyan fluorescent signals using a Leica TCs SP2 spectral confocal microscope. For complementation analysis, the full-length F8H cDNA was ligated downstream of the CaMV 35S promoter in the binary vector pBI121. The construct was introduced into the Arabidopsis fra8 mutant plants by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Transgenic plants were selected on kanamycin, and the first generation of transgenic plants was used for morphological and anatomical analyses. The basal parts of the main inflorescence stems of 8-week-old plants were measured for breaking force using a digital force/length tester (Model DHT4-50; Larson System, Minneapolis, MN, USA). The breaking force (kg) was calculated as the force needed to break apart a stem segment (Zhong et al. CITATION). Stems and roots from 8-week-old transgenic plants were fixed with 2% glutaraldehyde in phosphate buffer at 4°C overnight. After fixation, the tissues were dehydrated through a gradient of ethanol, embedded in LR White resin (Electron Microscopy Sciences, Fort Washington, PA, USA) and then subjected to sectioning with a microtome (Burk et al. CITATION). Sections (1 μm thick) were stained with toluidine blue for light microscopy. For transmission electron microscopy, 85 nm thick sections were stained with uranyl acetate and lead citrate, and visualized using a Zeiss EM 902A transmission electron microscope (Carl Zeiss, Jena, Germany). For detection of xylan, sections (1 μm thick) of stems and roots were incubated with the LM10 monoclonal antibody, which recognizes glucuronoxylan (Plantprobes, Leeds, UK; McCartney et al. CITATION) and then with fluorescein isothiocyanate-conjugated secondary antibodies. The fluorescence-labeled sections were observed using a Leica TCs SP2 spectral confocal microscope. Images from single optical sections were collected and processed with Adobe Photoshop. Inflorescence stems from 8-week-old plants were ground into fine powder in liquid nitrogen with a mortar and pestle, and homogenized sequentially in 70% ethanol and 100% acetone with a polytron. The resulting insoluble residues were dried in a vacuum oven at 60°C and considered as the cell wall fraction. For each sample, stems from at least 20 plants were used for analysis. The wall preparations were subsequently subjected to sequential extractions with ammonium oxalate (50 mM, 24 h), 1 N KOH containing 1% (w/v) NaBH4 (24 h) and 4 N KOH containing 1% (w/v) NaBH4 (24 h) according to Zhong et al. (CITATION). The 1 and 4 N KOH soluble extracts were passed through a glass fiber filter, neutralized to pH 6.0 with glacial acetic acid, dialyzed in dialysis tubing (3,500 Mr cut-off; Fisher Scientific, Pittsburgh, PA, USA) against deionized water, and lyophilized. Cell wall sugars (as alditol acetates) were determined following the procedure described by Hoebler et al. (CITATION). Briefly, cell walls were incubated with 70% sulfuric acid at 37°C for 60 min followed by addition of inositol as the internal standard and dilution with water to 2 N sulfuric acid. After heating at 100°C for 120 min, the solution was cooled and treated with 25% ammonium solution. After reduction with sodium borohydride in dimethylsulfoxide, the solution was heated at 40°C for 90 min, followed by sequential treatment with glacial acetic acid, acetic anhydride, 1-methylimidazole, dichloromethane and water. The organic layer containing the alditol acetates of the hydrolyzed cell wall sugars was washed three times with water, and sugars were analyzed on an Agilent 6890N gas–liquid chromatograph (Wilmington, DE, USA) equipped with a 30 m × 0.25 mm (i.d.) silica capillary column DB 225 (Alltech Assoc., Deerfield, IL, USA). The 1 and 4 N KOH-solubilized wall preparations were digested with β-xylanase M6 (Megazyme, Wicklow, Ireland) for generation of xylooligosaccharides as described (Zhong et al. CITATION). The released xylooligosaccharides were desalted and separated by size-exclusion chromatography on a Sephadex G-25 column (100 × 2.5 mm). Fractions containing the oligosaccharides were determined by the phenol–sulfuric assay (DuBois et al. CITATION), pooled and lyophilized. The acidic xylooligosaccharides released from β-xylanase digestion were analyzed using a MALDI-TOF mass spectrometer operated in the positive-ion mode with an accelerating voltage of 30 kV, an extractor voltage of 9 kV and a source pressure of approximately 8×10–7 torr. The aqueous sample was mixed (1: 1, v/v) with the MALDI matrix (0.2 M 2,5-dihydroxbenzoic acid and 0.06 M 1-hydroxyisoquinoline in 50% acetonitrile) and dried on the stainless steel target plate. Spectra are the average of 100 laser shots. NMR spectra of the acidic xylooligosaccharides from β-xylanase digestion were acquired at 20°C on a Varian Inova 600 MHz spectrometer (599.7 MHz, 1H) using a 5 mm cryogenic triple resonance probe (Varian, Palo Alto, CA, USA). All NMR samples were prepared using 100% D2O in a 3 mm standard NMR tube. 1H chemical shifts were referenced to DSS (2,2-dimethyl-2-silapentane-5-sulfonate sodium salt). For all experiments, 64 transients were collected using a spectral width of 6,000 Hz and an acquisition time of 5 s. The residual water resonance was suppressed by a 1 s pre-saturation pulse at a field strength of 40 Hz. 1D spectra were processed using MestReC (MestreC Research, Santiago de Compostela, Spain) with 0.2 Hz apodization followed by zero-filling to 128 k points. The 1H-NMR assignments were done by comparison with the NMR spectra data for Arabidopsis acidic xylooligosaccharides (Zhong et al. CITATION, Peña et al. CITATION).
