!~ABS~! Proteins could be well separated and further identified by the use of 2-DE and related techniques. Yet, there are many proteins could not be detected even by more effective dyes because of their inherent low abundance or their low resolution. As a result, polyA-affinity column was used as a method to enrich polyA-binding proteins and then identified by MALDI-TOF–MS. In this study, 23 Arabidopsis chloroplast protein spots coded by 18 genes were identified, and majority of these proteins were classified into three related categories according to their annotations in the Swiss-Prot database, including NAD-, RNA-, and ATP-binding motifs, respectively. The major goal of the present Arabidopsis chloroplast proteomics project was to identify novel polyA-binding proteins or protein isoforms located in Arabidopsis chloroplasts and the specific research of cellular proteins with extremely low transcription levels could be fulfilled.
!~RES~! More than 30 protein spots were clearly detected on the 2-DE gel of the proteins eluted from the polyA-affinity column (Fig. 1). Among them, 23 spots representing 18 gene products were identified using the MALDI-TOF–MS technique after tryptic digest (Table 1). Majority of these proteins were classified into three related categories according to their annotations in the Swiss-Prot database (http://expasy.org), including NAD-, RNA-, and ATP-binding motifs, respectively. Others are unclassified. And all the protein spots still could be visible after three replications. [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] Spot 2 was identified as a vacuolar-type H+-ATPase subunit. It has a crucial role in the vacuolar system of eukaryotic cells which provides most of the energy required for transport systems that utilize the proton motive force generated by ATP hydrolysis [CITATION]. Spot 6 and spot 7 were identified as ATP synthetase α and β subunits, respectively. Spot 1 was detected as 10-formyltetrahydrofolate synthetase, and spot 3 was a putative rubisco subunit binding protein alpha subunit. Among the identified spots, spot 11 and spot 12, are annotated as mRNA binding protein in the database, however, there is no obvious RNA binding domain. Spot 17 was identified as a ribosomal protein. Spot 16 and spot 17, which were the two largest ones on the 2-DE, suggesting that they had the most significant ability to combine polyA-affinity column. Four in which belong to the cpRNP family, and they are all cp31As (spots 16, 19–21). The results of this study also showed that cp31A is the one of most notable chloroplast proteins which has the ability to combine polyA. Spot 9 and 10 were identified as putative hydroxypyruvate reductase which was regarded as one of the C2-cycle enzymes in all phototrophic organisms that could catalyze the hydroxypyruvate into glycerate during Calvin cycle. Spot 4 and spot 5, which are the products of the same gene, were identified as serine hydroxymethyltransferase (SHMT). SHMT, combined with glycine decarboxylase, catalyzed an essential sequence of the photorespiratory C2 cycle, namely, the conversion of two molecules of glycine into one molecule each of CO2, NH4 +, and serine [CITATION]. Spot 8 has a double title: one was annotated as vacuolar ATP synthase subunit which was also named rubisco large chain. At the same time, spot 23 was identified as a rubisco small chain. Spots 13–15 were identified as fructose-bisphosphate aldolase which was considered as one of the most important isozymes in the process of life glycolysis metabolic. Spot 18 was detected as a V-type proton-ATPase, and spot 22 was a putative mitochondrial inner membrane protease subunit 2. All the spots identified above indicate that polyA or other similar media may be used for enrichment of low-abundance cellular proteins for MALDI-TOF identification. In addition to the identified proteins mentioned above, other proteins do not possess evident RNA-binding properties or the even strong protein spots from the 2-DE map shown in Fig. 2 could not being identified because they can not be detected by the followed mass spectrometry technique. Carbon fixation subunit rubisco, fructose-bisphosphate aldolase in the sugar metabolism, hydroxypyruvic acid reductase in the photorespiration and the glycine methyl transferase in the amino acid metabolism, of which, their sequence, structure and function also do not have obvious comparability. Yet, there are many identified proteins have no visible signal that located in the chloroplast. Furthermore, though silver staining is currently one of the most sensitive detect methods, it has strong interference to the followed mass spectrometry analysis because, when staining, aldehydes are needed as fixatives. In addition, since the special role of the basic amino acids and sulfur-containing ones, and cystine residues-free or very few cystine residues appeared as negative staining, there are yet some proteins could not be stained or stained very difficult. [[FIGURE]]  The purpose of this study is to screen out the proteins bound with the RNAs by 2-DE technique. PolyA is a simple RNA sequence, and proteins binds to it may have the non-specific binding ability to RNAs. It is a tentative step of separating all the RNA binding proteins from the proteins extracted from the interested tissue. In general, many aspects have still to be further studied. First, for many detected proteins with different pI/Mw, their post-translational modification can be further identified by ESI-MS–MS, and also to presume their molecular meanings. For those proteins that do not have the RNA binding domain, we can try to find the patterns to combine RNA. Also, we can isolate RNA in virtue of other poly nucleotides such as random poly-nucleotide. All the work above will help us further understanding of the chloroplast RNA and related life mechanism.
!~MM~! Dry mature Arabidopsis seeds (Columbia ecotype) were soaked in double-distilled (dd) H2O at 4°C for 3 days before being transferred onto solid Murashige–Skoog (MS) medium and being incubated at constant temperature (20–22°C) with a light regimen of 16/8 h (light/dark cycle) for a total of 4 days to obtain green seedlings. Collect the leaves. 0.3 M Mannitol, 50 mM HEPES, (2 mM EDTA-2Na, 1 mM β-mercaptoethanol, 0.6% polyvinylpyrrolidone, 1 g BSA, pH 8.0) and were turned to mushy to clear away the cell debris. Density gradient centrifugation was used first at 200×g for 3 min and then at 3,000×g for 7 min. The precipitation were mixed with MCB I buffer then put 40% percoll (40% percoll, 60% MCB I) on the upper solution carefully and centrifuged at 3,000×g for 6 min. Bottle green layer was extracted and centrifuged with the same volume MCB I buffer at 3,000×g for 1 min, then discard the supernatant. The intact chloroplast was extracted after 1–2 ml MCB II (0.3 M mannitol, 50 mM HEPES-NaOH, 2 mM EDTA-2Na, pH 8.0) added to the precipitation. The intact chloroplast was mixed with triplicate volume protein extraction buffer A and centrifuged at 40,000×g for 1 h after precipitated at −20°C for 1 h. Pellets were drained by vacuum centrifugation and dissolved in buffer B (7 M urea, 2 M thiourea, 4% (w/v) chloamidopropyl CHAPS, 20 mM dithiothreltol (DTT), 2% (v/v) pharmalyte 3-10 (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech, Uppsala, Sweden), and 1% (v/v) proteinase-inhibitor (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech)) at 4°C for 1 h before centrifuged at 40,000×g for 1 h. The total protein content of the sample was quantified using a 2-D Quant Kit (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech). All the centrifuge processes were working at 4°C. Immobiline 4-7 linear DryStrips were run at 30 V for 8 h, 50 V for 4 h, 100 V for 1 h, 300 V for 1 h, 500 V for 1 h, 1,000 V for 1 h, and 8,000 V for 12 h using hydration buffer (8 M urea, 2% CHAPS, 20 mM DTT) containing 0.6% v/v IPG buffer. SDS-PAGE was performed using 12.5% polyacrylamide gels without a stacking gel. Gels were stained with Coomassie brilliant blue R-350 (CBB R-350) or silver according to the protocol of Shevchenko et al. Images of the gels were scanned by Uniscan e100 and analyzed using the Imagemaster 2-D Elite. In order to obtain reliable results from 2-D images, protein samples were always prepared in triplicates. Each protein sample was analyzed after silver staining for quantitative purpose and CBB-stained for successive enzymatic digestion of protein spots and MALDI-TOF–MS identification. Prediction of spot positions was performed using the pI/MW program (http://ca.expasy.org/tools/pi_tool.html). The affinity column was packed and washed before proteins were eluted following a previously described protocol [CITATION]. The binding medium was equilibrated in buffer A (10 mM Tris–HCl at pH 7.5, 50 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 2 mM MgCl2, 0.1% NP-40) for 10 min. The eluents were concentrated to about 2 mg/ml and were cleaned up with the 2-D Clean-up Kit (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech) before being used for 2-DE separation. All subsequent treatments and mass spectrometric analysis were performed as reported in [CITATION, CITATION]. PMFs of the protein spots were obtained by using MALDI-TOF–MS (Bruker–Franzen, Bremen, Germany) and polypeptides were identified by using the MASCOT search engine.
