!~ABS~! Gene families with multiple members are predicted to have individuals with overlapping functions. We examined all of the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) myosin family members for their involvement in Golgi and other organelle motility. Truncated fragments of all 17 annotated Arabidopsis myosins containing either the IQ tail or tail domains only were fused to fluorescent markers and coexpressed with a Golgi marker in two different plants. We tracked and calculated Golgi body displacement rate in the presence of all myosin truncations and found that tail fragments of myosins MYA1, MYA2, XI-C, XI-E, XI-I, and XI-K were the best inhibitors of Golgi body movement in the two plants. Tail fragments of myosins XI-B, XI-F, XI-H, and ATM1 had an inhibitory effect on Golgi bodies only in Nicotiana tabacum, while tail fragments of myosins XI-G and ATM2 had a slight effect on Golgi body motility only in Nicotiana benthamiana. The best myosin inhibitors of Golgi body motility were able to arrest mitochondrial movement too. No exclusive colocalization was found between these myosins and Golgi bodies in our system, although the excess of cytosolic signal observed could mask myosin molecules bound to the surface of the organelle. From the preserved actin filaments found in the presence of enhanced green fluorescent protein fusions of truncated myosins and the motility of myosin punctae, we conclude that global arrest of actomyosin-derived cytoplasmic streaming had not occurred. Taken together, our data suggest that the above myosins are involved, directly or indirectly, in the movement of Golgi and mitochondria in plant cells.
!~RES~! In order to compare the involvement of all annotated Arabidopsis myosins with Golgi movement, we isolated, sequenced, and subcloned a fragment containing the IQ, coiled-coil, and tail domains of all of them downstream to enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) or containing the coiled-coil and tail domains downstream of mono red fluorescent protein (mRFP; Fig. 1 ). The idea was to create dominant negative clones of each myosin family member that lacks the head actin-binding domain but should still be able to bind cargo. This should saturate the binding sites and compete out the function of endogenous wild-type myosin molecules. Sequence analysis of several independent clones in both laboratories revealed the following differences in translation compared with the annotated database sequences. In myosin XI-D, instead of 1,256-KSLDLFVFMYLFQ-1,268, we found 1,256-VSFTRPP-1,262, which probably results from a different splicing site and an A-to-V change in position 1,082. In myosin XI-G, nucleotides 3,217 to 3,261 are missing; again, this seems to be a different splicing site prediction. In myosin VIIIB, we found that the predicted 932-VVFLPDVC-939 is 932-ELLSEQFE-939; again, this is probably a result of different splicing. The clone of ATM1 in our hands contains an 865G-to-865R change (CITATION). Genevestigator analysis of expression patterns of Arabidopsis myosins revealed that myosins ATM2 and VIIIB from the group of myosin VIII and myosins XI-A, XI-B, XI-C, XI-D, XI-E, and XI-J are expressed at high levels in pollen. These myosins are expressed also in the mature leaf but at levels two to five times lower than other myosin family members (CITATION; Supplemental Fig. S1). Previously, it was shown that myosins from Nicotiana benthamiana possess a high degree of sequence and functional homology to their Arabidopsis counterparts (CITATION). In addition, the functions of Arabidopsis myosins XI-K and XI-E were proven in N. tabacum (CITATION). Therefore, we decided to compare different fragments of all 17 Arabidopsis myosins in N. tabacum (N.t.) and N. benthamiana (N.b.) and to study their subcellular localization and ability to arrest the motility of Golgi and other different organelles. [[FIGURE]] First, the subcellular localizations of tail and IQ tail myosin truncations were compared with each other and with Golgi bodies. Myosin tails were coexpressed with a fluorescent Golgi body marker (sialyl transferase [ST]-XFP) in N.t. epidermal cells (Fig. 2 ); in addition, the localization of the two different myosin fusions, mRFP-tail and eGFP-IQ tail, were compared by coexpression in N.t. (Supplemental Fig. S3) and the eGFP-IQ tail fusions were expressed in N.b. (Supplemental Fig. S2). A general observation was that while class VIII fusions mainly located to the plasma membrane (ATM1, ATM2, VIIIA, and VIIIB; Fig. 2; Supplemental Fig. S2) and/or the nucleolus (ATM2 and VIIIB; Fig. 2), class XI fusions tended to be in more motile punctate structures (MYA1, MYA2, XI-E, XI-H, and XI-I) or diffuse (XI-C, XI-D, XI-F, XI-J, and XI-K) throughout the cytoplasm (Fig. 2; Supplemental Fig. S2). XI-A, XI-B, and XI-G tail/IQ tail expression tended to vary from motile puncta to diffuse. Interestingly, both XI-I truncations collocated to punctate structures and also collocated to the nuclear envelope in both plant species (Fig. 2; Supplemental Figs. S2, S3, and S5). [[FIGURE]] None of the myosin fusions solely colocated with Golgi bodies, but the surrounding cytosolic location could represent a small proportion of bound myosin fusions (Fig. 2). Upon coexpression, most of the IQ tail and tail fusions of the same myosin gene colocated to the same structures in N.t. with few exceptions: the ATM2 IQ tail fusion did not colocate to the nucleolus unlike the shorter tail fusion, XI-A and XI-C tail and IQ tail fusions were diffuse throughout the cytosol, and the IQ tail fusion was also in the nucleoplasm (Supplemental Fig. S3). Thus, it is suggested that subcellular localization is similar whether or not the IQ domain is present. In order to study the effect of each myosin on the motility of Golgi, we coexpressed each myosin fragment with a Golgi marker in two different Nicotiana species. Tail fusions were expressed in N.t. and IQ tail fusions were expressed in N.b. Myosin fusions that behaved differently in the two Nicotiana species were expressed and compared in N.b. This comparison allowed us to verify variations derived from either the plant or the length of the myosin fusion. Owing to the variability of organelle movement within a cell (i.e. fast, slow, and stationary), large samples of organelles were analyzed from at least 10 movies from three to five independent experiments. Volocity software was used to track organelles and calculate velocity and displacement rates of each tracked organelle over time. Displacement rate is the final distance an organelle moves between the first and last frame of the time-lapse sequence over time. We found that organelles that were undergoing short-range oscillations in one spot, but appeared by eye to have stopped moving (Supplemental Movies S1–S4), obtained somewhat unexpectedly high values of velocity calculated by the software. The two data sets from N.t. and N.b. were acquired using different rates of image acquisition, which had a different influence on velocity values determined for such oscillatory movements (i.e. a higher frame rate measured more oscillations, resulting in higher velocities than those captured using a lower frame rate). However, this did not affect displacement rate measurements, since this is a measure of movement away from the starting point and is not significantly affected by short-range oscillatory motion. The two data sets generated from N.b. and N.t., therefore, were compared using the displacement rate values, as they are a better reflection of the perturbation of directional organelle movement and allow comparisons to be drawn between data sets from the two species. To confirm that the different rates of image acquisition did not affect the velocity or displacement rate calculated for organelles in similar plant species, high and low rates of image capture were compared in N.b., but no significant differences were found (Supplemental Table S2.). Figure 3 shows the mean displacement rate (normalized against the respective controls) and cumulative distribution frequency graphs that describe the distribution of displacement rates within a Golgi population in the presence of each truncated myosin fusion. Comparisons between the two data sets, from N.t. (Fig. 3A) and from N.b. (Fig. 3C), reveal that both tail and IQ tail fusions of myosins MYA1, MYA2, XI-C, XI-E, XI-I, and XI-K significantly inhibited Golgi displacement rates in both plants (see Supplemental Table S1 for statistical analysis; Supplemental Movies S1 and S2). Figure 3 also shows that myosins XI-B, XI-F, XI-H, and ATM1 significantly interfered with Golgi movement only as tail fusions in N.t. (Fig. 3, A and B) but not as IQ tail fusions in N.b. (Fig. 3, C and D). In addition, myosins XI-G and ATM2 partially interfered with Golgi movement only as IQ tail fusions in N.b. plants (Fig. 3, C and D). In order to understand the origin of the differences obtained in the two systems, the tail fusions of myosins XI-G, ATM2, XI-B, XI-F, XI-H, and ATM1 were analyzed in N.b. Figure 4 shows that except for the ATM2 tail fusion, all other tail fusions had a similar effect on Golgi body motility to the IQ tail fusions in N.b. The tail fusion of ATM2 did not affect Golgi movement, although its IQ tail fragment did to some extent (Supplemental Table S1). Importantly, when IQ tail mutants of XIB, XIF, and ATM1 were expressed in N.t., they exhibited an inhibitory effect on Golgi body movement similar to their tail fusion counterparts in this plant (data not shown). Thus, it seems that the source of variability between the two expression systems is the plant species itself and not an intrinsic difference in the myosin fragment fused to a fluorescent marker protein. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Next, we addressed the question of whether myosin truncations specifically perturbed Golgi movement only or whether they affected other organelle classes. Assessing the displacement rates of mitochondria in the presence of myosin IQ tail mutants in N.b. showed that the same myosins that inhibited Golgi movement in the two systems were able to arrest mitochondrial motility as well (Fig. 5 ; Supplemental Movie S3; Supplemental Table S1). The rest of the putative dominant negative mutants of myosins XI-A, XI-B, XI-D, XI-F, XI-G, XI-H, XI-J, ATM1, ATM2, VIIIA, and VIIIB had no significant effect on the movement of mitochondria in N.b. leaves (Fig. 5; Supplemental Table S1). The inhibitory IQ tail myosin fusions did not specifically colocalize to Golgi or mitochondria in N.b. (Supplemental Fig. S5). [[FIGURE]] To ensure that myosin-truncated fragments are not nonspecifically interfering with actomyosin-derived cytoplasmic streaming, actin was labeled by the DsRed FABD2 marker (CITATION) and examined in the presence of each eGFP-IQ tail myosin fusion in N.b. Figure 6 shows no detectable actin disruption in the presence of the six myosin mutants of MYA1, MYA2, myosin XI-C, XI-E, XI-I, and XI-K. Furthermore, we compared the motility of myosin punctae of MYA1 and MYA2 with Golgi body movement in the same time-lapse movie acquired from N.b. While Golgi bodies are motionless in the presence of eGFP-IQ tail, the MYA1 and MYA2 punctae are motile (with mean displacement rate 10 times higher than Golgi in these clips). Some of the MYA1 and MYA2 punctae moved in linear routes that may correspond to streaming in cytoplasmic strands (Fig. 7 ; Supplemental Movie S4). eGFP-MYA1 and eGFP-MYA2 spots can move without the motor domain, because they are either bound to organelles or vesicles that move by other wild-type active motor proteins or they are aggregates of the GFP chimera itself that are dragged along by cytoplasmic streaming. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] These data provide strong evidence that the myosin mutants are not arresting all cytoplasmic motion in the cells but are specifically inhibiting the motility of the tested Golgi and mitochondria.
!~MM~! IQ tail fusions were amplified by PCR from first-strand cDNA synthesized using oligo(dT) and reverse transcriptase from Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) whole plant (including flowers) RNA. The ATM1 clone was kindly provided by Dieter Volkmann from the University of Bonn (CITATION). The fragments were cloned into the plasmid pART7 downstream to eGFP, with a linker of 10 Ala amino acids between the restriction sites KpnI and BamHI, beside myosin fragments XI-A, XI-D, and XI-G, which were cloned between KpnI and XbaI, and XI-H, which was cloned between KpnI and ClaI. The expression cassettes were cloned into pART27 binary vector using NotI cleavage. All binary expression vectors were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101. Myosin tail fusions were amplified using IQ tail fusions as templates or by reverse transcription-PCR using the SuperScript III one-step reverse transcription-PCR platinum Taq HiFi kit (Invitrogen) from mRNA extracted from various Arabidopsis tissues using the Nucleospin RNA II kit (Macherey-Nagel). The ATM tail clone was amplified from the clone received from J.K. Jones (CITATION). All amplified products were cloned into pDONOR 207 using Gateway technology according to Invitrogen and subsequently recombined into binary vectors resulting in eYFP (using pCAMBIA 1300 backbone vector; CITATION) or mRFP (using pB7WGR2 vector) fusions. The binary expression vectors were transformed into A. tumefaciens strain GV3101. Nicotiana benthamiana plants were grown in peat in a controlled growth room at 25°C with optimum light of 16 h daily. Nicotiana tabacum plants were grown according to CITATION. N.b. leaf epidermal cells were infiltrated as follows. A. tumefaciens strain GV3101 was transformed with the plasmid and grown at 28°C for 24 h. The bacteria were precipitated and resuspended to a final optical density at 600 nm of 0.5 in the following buffer: 10 mm MES, pH 5.6, 10 mm MgCl2, and 100 μm acetosyringone (Sigma Aldrich). Leaves of 3-week-old N.b. plants were infiltrated with the bacterial culture using a 1-mL syringe as described previously (CITATION). Expression of the fluorescent chimera in the leaf cells was analyzed after 48 h. N.t. leaf epidermal cells were infiltrated as outlined by CITATION, with an optical density at 600 nm of 0.1 for myosin constructs and an optical density at 600 nm of 0.04 for Golgi marker (α-2,6-ST-cyan fluorescent protein [CFP]/GFP). Images were taken 48 to 72 h after infiltration. For N.b., an Olympus IX81/FV500 laser-scanning microscope was used to observe fluorescently labeled cells with the following filter sets. To observe eGFP, we used the eGFP channel, 488-nm excitation, and BA505-525; to observe mRFP, we used 543-nm excitation and BA610. The objective used was PlanApo 60X1.00 WLSM ∞/0.17. When eGFP and mRFP were detected in the same sample, we used dichroic mirror 488/543. In all cases, where more than one color was monitored, sequential acquisition was performed. For N.t., a Zeiss LSM META 510 confocal microscope was used with the following settings: dual imaging of eYFP and CFP were captured using multitracking in-line switching mode. CFP was excited with 458 nm and eYFP with 514 nm using a 458/514 dichroic mirror, and the subsequent emission was detected using 470- to 500-nm and 560- to 615-nm band-pass filters, respectively. Similarly, eGFP and mRFP dual imaging was captured using multitracking in-line switching mode. eGFP was excited with 488 nm and mRFP with 543 nm using the 488/543 dichroic mirror, and the subsequent emission was detected using 505- to 530-nm and 570- to 650-nm band-pass filters, respectively. For N.b., ST-mRFP was used as a Golgi marker (CITATION). The mitochondrial marker was made by CITATION and obtained from The Arabidopsis Information Resource. To monitor both organelle and myosin motilities, time-lapse image acquisition every 2.6 s was performed exclusively from cells expressing both myosin and the organelle-specific marker. Control samples (with no myosin interference) were also captured at a high rate of image acquisition (every 0.4 s), and velocity measurements were compared with the low-frame-rate recordings. Organelle tracking was done using the Volocity 4.21 module of Improvision, and velocity was calculated from 100 to 580 organelles in the presence of each myosin. Size, shape, and intensity parameters were specified so that most organelles will be defined by the software. Tracks combining 12 to 20 sequential images were calculated by the shortest path model, and mean velocity or displacement rate were calculated for each track. Statistical tests were done using KaleidaGraph 4.03 (Synergy Software). General linear model analysis was carried out followed by Scheffe's multiple comparison test. This method was selected due to the uneven number of replicates between the treatments. Statistically significant differences between the treatments were determined using P < 0.05. For N.t., Golgi bodies were tracked and analyzed according to CITATION, except that 100 frames were captured over 14.29 s (7 frames s−1). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Transcription profile of Arabidopsis myosin family members according to Genevestigator in arbitrary units. Supplemental Figure S2. The subcellular localization of eGFP-IQ tail fusions of all Arabidopsis myosins in N.b. leaf epidermal cells. Supplemental Figure S3. Comparative subcellular localization of mRFP-tail and eGFP-IQ tail myosin fusions in N.t. Supplemental Figure S4. Subcellular localization of IQ tail inhibitory myosin truncations compared with Golgi and mitochondria localization. Supplemental Table S1. Statistical analysis (Scheffe's test) of the data obtained from displacement rate analysis for Golgi bodies and mitochondria in the presence of all Arabidopsis myosins in the two plants, N.t. and N.b. Supplemental Movie S1. Motility of Golgi bodies in the presence of Arabidopsis myosin tail fusions in N.t. (bar = 2 μm). Supplemental Movie S2. Motility of Golgi bodies in the presence of Arabidopsis myosin IQ tail fusions in N.b. (bar = 10 μm). Supplemental Movie S3. Motility of mitochondria in the presence of Arabidopsis myosin IQ tail fusions in N.b. (bar = 6 μm). Supplemental Movie S4. Motionless Golgi bodies in the presence of moving Arabidopsis MYA1 and MYA2 eGFP-IQ tail particles in N.b. (bar = 8 μm).
