!~ABS~! In a screen for enhancers of tir1-1 auxin resistance, we identified two novel alleles of the putative mitochondrial pyruvate dehydrogenase E1α-subunit, IAA-Alanine Resistant4 (IAR4). In addition to enhancing the auxin response defects of tir1-1, iar4 single mutants exhibit numerous auxin-related phenotypes including auxin-resistant root growth and reduced lateral root development, as well as defects in primary root growth, root hair initiation, and root hair elongation. Remarkably, all of these iar4 mutant phenotypes were rescued when endogenous indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) levels were increased by growth at high temperature or overexpression of the YUCCA1 IAA biosynthetic enzyme, suggesting that iar4 mutations may alter IAA homeostasis rather than auxin response. Consistent with this possibility, iar4 mutants exhibit increased Aux/IAA stability compared to wild type under basal conditions, but not in response to an auxin treatment. Measurements of free IAA levels detected no significant difference between iar4-3 and wild-type controls. However, we consistently observed significantly higher levels of IAA-amino acid conjugates in the iar4-3 mutant. Furthermore, using stable isotope-labeled IAA precursors, we observed a significant increase in the relative utilization of the Trp-independent IAA biosynthetic pathway in iar4-3. We therefore suggest that the auxin phenotypes of iar4 mutants are the result of altered IAA homeostasis.
!~RES~! With the aim of identifying additional components of the SCFTIR1-mediated auxin response pathway, we have previously performed a genetic screen to isolate enhancers of tir1-1 auxin (eta) resistance. This screen identified mutations in several loci that are directly involved in the regulation of the SCFTIR1 complex, including ETA1/CUL1 (CITATION), ETA2/CAND1 (CITATION), ETA3/SGT1b (CITATION), and ETA6/CSN1/FUS6 (CITATION). We also identified two recessive, allelic mutations, designated eta5-1 and eta5-2. Analysis of the F2 progeny from Columbia (Col) backcrosses revealed that eta5 single mutants were resistant to low concentrations of exogenous auxins (Fig. 1A ). Also consistent with reduced auxin response, eta5 seedlings developed fewer lateral roots than the wild type on unsupplemented nutrient medium (Fig. 1B). As expected, both defects were exacerbated in the eta5, tir1-1 double mutants. While adult eta5 mutants look similar to wild-type plants, the mutant seedlings exhibit several root growth defects. In addition to reduced lateral root development, eta5 primary roots are shorter than wild type (Fig. 1C) and develop both fewer and shorter root hairs (Fig. 1, D–F). Auxin is known to control both root hair initiation and elongation (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] A map-based cloning approach was used to isolate the ETA5 gene. Linkage studies placed the eta5 mutations within an approximately 117-kb interval on chromosome 1. Among the genes in this region was IAR4 (AT1G24180), encoding a putative mitochondrial pyruvate dehydrogenase E1α-subunit. The pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDC) catalyzes the oxidative decarboxylation of pyruvate and the subsequent acetylation of coenzyme A to acetyl-CoA (CITATION). The E1 component of the PDC catalyzes the first step of this process. In mitochondria, this reaction represents the irreversible commitment of carbon to the tricitric acid cycle. Thus, IAR4 presumably encodes a subunit of an important metabolic enzyme. Mutations in IAR4 were recently identified in a screen for mutants resistant to IAA-Ala conjugates (CITATION). We therefore sequenced the IAR4 locus in both of our eta5 mutants. eta5-1 possesses a nonsense mutation near the end of the first exon (G653A), while eta5-2 contains a single base-pair change at the extreme 3′ end of the fifth intron (G2378A; Fig. 2A ). Further confirmation that the eta5 mutations are allelic with IAR4 was obtained by complementation tests with the previously described iar4-2 T-DNA allele (CITATION; data not shown). We therefore renamed the eta5-1 and eta5-2 mutants as iar4-3 and iar4-4, respectively. Like the previously described iar4 alleles, iar4-3 and iar4-4 exhibit resistance to IAA-Ala in root growth assays (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] To examine IAR4 expression patterns, we generated transgenic plants expressing an IAR4 promoter-GUS reporter construct. In agreement with publicly available microarray datasets, we find that IAR4 is expressed throughout the plant. Consistent with the observed root phenotypes, IAR4 is strongly expressed in roots, with highest expression detected at the root tip (Fig. 2B). Auxin treatment did not appear to affect the level or pattern of expression (data not shown). The predicted role of IAR4 as a PDC E1α-subunit and putative mitochondrial targeting sequence suggested that IAR4 is a mitochondrial protein. To test this possibility, we fused GFP to the C terminus of the IAR4 coding sequence and expressed this fusion protein from the IAR4 promoter. Like the PIAR4-GUS reporter, IAR4:GFP was expressed most strongly in roots. GFP fluorescence colocalized with a mitochondrial stain, confirming the predicted cellular compartmentalization (Fig. 2C). No nuclear localization, as it would be expected for a function in auxin signaling, could be detected. The Arabidopsis genome encodes three apparent PDC E1α-subunits. The previously characterized PDC E1α-subunit encoded by At1g01090 carries a plastidic signature and is 32% identical to IAR4 on the amino acid level (CITATION). IAR4 and the previously described At1g59900 (designated here as IAR4-LIKE [IAR4L]) proteins display a mitochondrial targeting sequence and are 81% identical (CITATION). CITATION examined iar4 mutants for phenotypes consistent with respiratory pathway defects, but found no differences from wild type on media containing various concentrations of Suc, citrate, or ethanol. These findings could be the result of functional redundancy between IAR4 and IAR4L; however, it also raises the possibility that IAR4 has evolved an auxin-specific function. CITATION reported that the iar4L-1 T-DNA (SALK_074384) mutant displayed wild-type sensitivity to IAA-Ala and other auxins. In agreement with these findings we could not detect any auxin-related defects in iar4L-1 seedlings such as we observe with iar4 mutants (data not shown). To examine the possibility that IAR4 and IAR4L functionally overlap, we crossed iar4-3 with iar4L. No double mutant progeny were recovered in the F2 generation, suggesting embryo and/or gametophyte lethality. Furthermore, when iar4-3 homozygous F2 plants were PCR genotyped for IAR4L, we found that none of these plants (0/28) carried the iar4L-1 T-DNA allele. In contrast, we did identify iar4L-1 homozygotes that were heterozygous for iar4-3; however, no iar4-3 homozygotes were detected in the F3 progeny of these plants. We examined the embryos in the siliques of the iar4L-1/iar4L-1 iar4-3/+ plants, but observed no aborted embryos, suggesting that the double mutant may be gametophyte lethal. In the F2 populations of our backcrosses of iar4-3 to Col we consistently observed a modest but significant deviation from a 3:1 segregation ratio (Table I ), suggesting reduced transmission of iar4-3 gametes. This reduction in the recovery of iar4-3 homozygotes was dramatically more severe in the F2 populations of iar4-3 × iar4L-1 (Table I). To investigate the basis of the reduced transmission of iar4-3, we conducted reciprocal crosses with IAR4/iar4-3 heterozygous plants. A significant reduction in transmission through the pollen was detected (Table I). We therefore considered the possibility that our failure to recover iar4L-1 iar4-3 double mutants might be the result of iar4L enhancing the reduced pollen transmission phenotype of iar4-3. When iar4L-1/iar4L-1 iar4-3/+ plants were reciprocally crossed with Col, we observed a complete lack of transmission of iar4-3 through pollen. In contrast, transmission rates through the female gametes were normal (Table I). To elucidate why iar4L-1 iar4-3 pollen was not transmitted, we used Alexander's stain to determine whether or not the pollen was viable. While pollen obtained from Col, iar4-3, and iar4L-1 flowers were virtually 100% viable, only approximately 50% (385/788) of the pollen from iar4L-1/iar4L-1 iar4-3/+ plants was viable (Fig. 3A ), indicating that iar4L-1 iar4-3 is pollen lethal. Inheritance of iar4-3 in IAR4L and iar4L-1 backgrounds [[FIGURE]] While our finding that iar4L-1 iar4-3 pollen is inviable explained our inability to recover double mutant plants, it could not account for our failure to isolate iar4L-1/+, iar4-3/iar4-3 plants in the F2 progeny of the cross between the two single mutants. We therefore considered the possibility that this genotype confers an embryo-lethal phenotype. To test this possibility, we used iar4-3 pollen to fertilize iar4L-1/iar4L-1, iar4-3/+ flowers. The resulting progeny should either be heterozygous for both genes or homozygous for iar4-3 and heterozygous for iar4L-1. However, none of the progeny exhibited the iar4-3 mutant phenotype. We then repeated this cross and examined the developing F1 embryos within the siliques. When examined 6 d after pollination, nearly all of the embryos from IAR4-pollinated flowers were at the heart stage. In contrast, when iar4-3 was used as the pollen donor, two distinct classes of embryos were observed with equal frequency: heart stage embryos similar to the IAR4 control, and small globular embryos (Fig. 3B). When examined at later stages of development, the globular embryos had failed to progress, indicating a developmental arrest (Fig. 3C). Consistent with this possibility, approximately half of the seeds obtained from the iar4-3 crosses were shriveled and failed to germinate (Fig. 3D). Thus, in addition to an essential role in pollen development, IAR4 is also essential for embryogenesis in plants with reduced dosage of IAR4L. To further characterize the auxin response of iar4 mutants, SCFTIR1 activity was examined by introducing the HS∷AXR3NT-GUS reporter construct to examine Aux/IAA protein stability (CITATION). Wild-type and iar4-3 seedlings containing the reporter were heat shocked to induce expression of the transgene, incubated at room temperature in the absence or presence of exogenous auxin, and subsequently stained for GUS expression. To examine the basal level of the AXR3NT-GUS fusion protein, the seedlings were GUS stained immediately after the heat-shock period. Surprisingly, iar4-3 seedlings exhibited dramatically higher levels of AXR3NT-GUS staining (Fig. 4A ). To better assess decay rates of the reporter protein, different staining times for GUS activity were subsequently used for wild-type and mutant seedlings such that staining intensities at time zero were equivalent. In the absence of exogenous auxin, iar4-3 seedlings exhibited an obvious increase in AXR3NT-GUS stability, suggesting that SCFTIR1 activity is impaired (Fig. 4B). Surprisingly however, when the assay was performed in auxin-supplemented medium, wild-type and iar4-3 seedlings exhibited comparable AXR3NT-GUS degradation kinetics (Fig. 4C). [[FIGURE]] The finding that the AXR3NT-GUS reporter responded normally to applied auxin in iar4-3 seedlings raised the possibility that the differences we observed on unsupplemented medium may be due to a reduction in endogenous IAA levels rather than diminished SCFTIR1 function. To begin to address this possibility, wild-type and iar4-3 seedlings containing the HS∷AXR3NT-GUS reporter were grown at 28°C—a growth condition previously shown to increase endogenous IAA levels (CITATION). When shifted to 28°C 2 d prior to staining, iar4-3 seedlings exhibited no difference from wild-type controls for AXR3NT-GUS expression (Fig. 4D). Auxin-induced gene expression involves the auxin-dependent SCFTIR1-mediated ubiquitination of Aux/IAA proteins, resulting in derepression of auxin response factor transcription factors (CITATION). Our findings with the HS∷AXR3NT-GUS reporter suggested that Aux/IAA proteins are stabilized in iar4-3 seedlings grown at 20°C on unsupplemented medium. However, both exogenous auxin and increasing endogenous IAA levels by growth at high temperature restored AXR3NT-GUS levels to that seen in wild-type controls. These results are consistent with the possibility that SCFTIR1 activity per se is not affected in iar4-3, but rather that auxin levels are diminished in this mutant, resulting in less-efficient targeting of the AXR3NT-GUS fusion protein to the SCFTIR1 complex. To explore this possibility further, we examined the effect of iar4 mutations on auxin-induced gene expression using the DR5∷GUS reporter construct. When grown at 20°C, iar4-3 seedlings exhibit a dramatic decrease in DR5∷GUS expression in root tips of 6-d-old seedlings (Fig. 4E). However, when grown at 28°C, DR5∷GUS expression in iar4-3 was largely restored to wild-type levels (Fig. 4F). The finding that high-temperature growth suppresses the defects in both DR5∷GUS expression and AXR3NT-GUS degradation of iar4-3 mutants led us to test whether other aspects of the mutant phenotype could be suppressed by increasing endogenous IAA levels. Growth at high temperature completely rescued the iar4-3 defects in 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) response, lateral root development, and root hair initiation, and partially rescued the root hair elongation and root growth phenotypes (Fig. 5, A–C ). Likewise, incubation at high temperature also suppressed iar4-4 as well as the iar4-2 T-DNA allele (Fig. 5C; data not shown), indicating that suppression was not allele specific. To test the possibility that the effects of temperature on the iar4-3 phenotypes were due to something other than elevated IAA levels, we introduced the 35S∷YUCCA transgene into iar4-3 plants. YUCCA catalyzes a rate-limiting step in the Trp-dependent IAA biosynthetic pathway, and the activation-tagged 35S∷YUC transgene confers a significant increase in endogenous IAA levels compared to wild type (CITATION). Like the high-temperature studies, the 35S∷YUC transgene completely or partially rescued the iar4-3 mutant phenotypes (Fig. 5, A–C). [[FIGURE]] A simple explanation for the above results is that iar4 mutations confer a reduction in free IAA levels. IAA is known to regulate seedling hypocotyl length. Auxin overproducers such as 35S:YUC (CITATION) and sur2-1 (CITATION) exhibit a long hypocotyl phenotype, while 35S∷iaaL seedlings, which contain reduced free IAA content, have shorter hypocotyls than wild type (CITATION). Consistent with the possibility that iar4 seedlings are IAA deficient, iar4-3 seedlings have significantly shorter hypocotyls than wild type (Fig. 6A ). Again, high temperature and the 35S∷YUC transgene completely suppressed this defect (Fig. 6, A and B). [[FIGURE]] Measurement of free IAA levels in whole seedlings, as well as root and shoot tissues separately, failed to detect a significant difference between wild type and iar4-3 (Fig. 6C). To further examine possible effects of the iar4-3 mutation on IAA biosynthesis, we compared the utilization of Trp and Trp-independent IAA biosynthetic pathways. Wild-type and iar4-3 seedlings were fed the stable isotope-labeled IAA precursors [15N]anthranilic acid and [2H5]Trp, and the relative incorporation of these precursors into the free IAA pool was determined. In current IAA biosynthesis models, anthranilic acid is believed to be upstream and Trp downstream of the divergence point of the Trp-dependent and Trp-independent pathways (Fig. 6D). The ratio of the two isotopes within the free IAA pool therefore allows the relative utilization of each pathway to be assessed (CITATION). Compared to wild-type 10-d-old seedlings, the iar4-3 mutant exhibited a significant increase in the utilization of the Trp-independent pathway (Fig. 6E), demonstrating that the iar4-3 mutation does alter IAA biosynthesis. Lastly, we also examined IAA conjugate levels in iar4-3 mutant seedlings. Two distinct classes of IAA conjugates have been described in a variety of plant species. Ester conjugates, where the carboxyl group of IAA is linked to sugars or cyclic poly-ols like Glc and inositol, and amide conjugates with amino acids or polypeptides (CITATION). Measurement of IAA conjugate levels in wild-type and the iar4-3 mutant revealed no differences in IAA-ester or IAA-protein conjugates (data not shown). However, iar4-3 seedlings exhibited an approximately 2-fold increase in IAA-amino acid conjugate abundance (Fig. 6F). To examine the effects of iar4-3 on specific IAA-amino acid conjugates, we examined levels of IAA-Asp and IAA-Glu. We detected a significant increase in IAA-Glu, but not IAA-Asp levels in iar4-3 seedlings, suggesting some specificity in the role of IAR4 in the regulation of IAA conjugates (Fig. 6G).
!~MM~! All Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) lines employed in this study are in the Col ecotype. Seedlings were grown under sterile conditions on ATS nutrient medium (CITATION) under long-day lighting conditions. Conditions for the mutagenesis and screen for eta mutants have been previously described (CITATION). A total of 300 auxin-resistant F2 seedlings from a cross between eta5-2/iar4-4 and Landsberg erecta (Ler) were used to map the eta5-2/iar4-4 mutation using simple sequence length polymorphic markers. We initially mapped the eta5-2/iar4-4 mutation to an interval between markers F21M12 (3.2 Mb) and nga392 (9.8 Mb) (http://www.arabidopsis.org). Markers defining our final mapping interval of approximately 117 kb were CER452019 (5′-CTCTATTTAACTTAGCAGTC-3′ and 5′-CCTGAAGTCAGCATCAGCTC-3′), which amplifies 201- and 182-bp fragments from Col and Ler, respectively; and CER459522 (5′-CTGTAGACCAGATACAACTTC-3′ and 5′-TCATGAGTAGATATCTAACC-3′), which amplifies 97- and 89-bp products from Col and Ler, respectively. These and additional markers are available upon request. For promotor-GUS studies, a 3.1-kb fragment containing genomic sequence from 1,149-bp upstream of the IAR4 locus through the third IAR4 exon 1,960-bp downstream of the ATG start codon was cloned in frame with the GUS coding sequence of pBI101.2 (CLONTECH). Plants were stably transformed using Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation using standard protocols. Transgenic lines were selected on ATS medium containing 50 mg/L kanamycin. T3 seedlings were stained for GUS activity as previously described (CITATION). The HS∷AXR3NT-GUS transgene (CITATION) was crossed into the iar4-3 mutant. Six-day-old Col and iar4-3 seedlings homozygous for the reporter construct were heat shocked for 2 h at 37°C to induce expression of the transgene. Seedlings were then stained immediately or transferred to 20°C medium for the indicated time period and stained for GUS activity (CITATION). 1-Naphthaleneacetic acid (50 μm) was added during the 20°C incubation where indicated. To account for the difference in steady-state levels of the AXR3NT-GUS protein as shown in Figure 4A and to obtain a similar staining baseline for the degradation assay, Col seedlings in Figure 4B were GUS stained for 480 min and iar4-3 seedlings were GUS stained for 165 min, respectively. Col seedlings in Figure 4C were GUS stained overnight, and iar4-3 seedlings were GUS stained for 120 min, respectively. For pollen staining, anthers were removed from flowers and mounted on microscope slides in one-half times Alexander's solution (CITATION). Viable pollen grains appear dark purple (green walls and densely staining cytoplasm), whereas inviable pollen appear empty (green walls only). To examine developing embryos, siliques were dissected with a 30-gauge needle, cleared overnight in Hoyer's solution (4 g chloral hydrate dissolved in 1 mL 50% glycerol), and visualized on a Nikon Diaphot 200 inverted microscope. For subcellular localization of IAR4 protein, IAR4 genomic DNA (from 1,840-bp upstream of the start codon to the end of the coding sequence minus the stop codon) was GATEWAY cloned into pDONR207 and subsequently recombined into the binary vector pMDC107 (CITATION) according to the manufacturer's protocols (Invitrogen). The resulting IAR4pro:IAR4:GFP construct was stably transformed into Col plants as described above. IAR4pro:IAR4:GFP transgenic seedlings were soaked in MitoTracker Orange (Molecular Probes) solution and GFP and MitoTracker fluorescence examined on a Bio-Rad MRC 1024 laser-scanning confocal microscope as previously described (CITATION). Free IAA content was determined according to CITATION. To extract IAA-amino acid conjugates, frozen tissue samples were homogenized in 65% isopropanol, 0.2 m imidazole (pH 7) with 10 ng each of [13C6]IAA-Asp and [13C6]IAA-Glu as isotopically labeled internal standards. Homogenization was performed using a Mixermill 3000 (Qiagen) with 3-mm tungsten-carbide beads at 20 Hz for 3 min. The homogenized samples were allowed to equilibrate with the internal standards for 1 h at 4°C, after which they were spun at 10,000g for 5 min. Supernatants were diluted 10× with distilled water to dilute the salt concentration before solid phase extraction. Samples were purified by on-column purification using NH2 (50 mg Versaplate, Varian) and C18 (100 mg PrepSep, Fisher) solid phase extraction columns. Amino columns were first conditioned using 600 μL each of hexane, acetonitrile, distilled water, and 0.2 m imidazole (pH 7), and then twice with 1,600 μL distilled water. The diluted supernatants were loaded on the NH2 columns and allowed to equilibrate for 5 min before being drawn slowly through the column using vacuum. The NH2 columns were then washed with 600 μL each of hexane, ethyl acetate, acetonitrile, and methanol, and the IAA amino acids were eluted 3 times with 0.3 mL 3% formic acid. The C18 columns were conditioned with 1 mL each of methanol and distilled water, and the total NH2 eluates were loaded on the columns and allowed to equilibrate for 5 min before a slight vacuum was applied to draw the samples through. The C18 columns were washed twice with 600 μL distilled water and the IAA amino acids were eluted twice with 300 μL methanol. To methylate the samples before gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (MS) analysis, in a well-ventilated hood, 1 mL ethereal diazomethane was added to each sample and they were immediately placed under a stream of N2 and evaporated to complete dryness. The samples were brought into solution in 25 μL ethyl acetate and analyzed by gas chromatography-MS using selected ion monitoring using a model 6890N GC/5973 Network MS (Agilent Technologies) equipped with an HP-5MS fused-silica capillary column (30 m × 0.25 mm ID, [5%-phenyl]-methylpolysiloxane, 0.25 lm film thickness, Agilent Technologies). The GC injector temperature was set at 280°C and temperature programmed from 70°C (2 min) to 280°C (5 min) at 20°C min−1, with helium as a carrier gas at a flow rate of 1 mL/min. The quadrupole MS was run in EI mode with an electron emission of 70 eV. For both IAA amino acid methyl esters and their isotopically labeled standards, the molecular ions and the base peaks were monitored. For Me-IAA-Asp and Me-[13C6]IAA-Asp, the ions were mass-to-charge ratio (m/z) 130 and 318 and m/z 136 and 324, respectively. For Me-IAA-Glu and Me-[13C6]IAA-Glu, the ions were m/z 130 and 332 and m/z 136 and 338, respectively. The IAA precursor feeding experiments were modified after CITATION. In brief, to quantify utilization of Trp-dependent and Trp-independent IAA biosynthetic pathways, seedlings were grown for 10 d at 20°C on vertical petri dishes containing ATS medium. After 10 d they were placed horizontally on a horizontal shaker at 20°C, flooded with 5 mL of 100 μm stable isotope labeled 2H5-Trp (Merck Frosst Canada, MSD Isotopes Div.) and 15N-anthranilate (Icon Services, Inc.) in 10 mm MES (pH 6), and incubated for 24 h. The seedlings were then rinsed, blotted dry, immediately frozen in liquid N2, and stored at −80°C until analyzed for determination of the isotopic enrichment in the endogenous free IAA pool. Extraction and analysis of free IAA was performed as described above.
