!~ABS~! The specification of cell fates during development requires precise regulatory mechanisms to ensure robust cell type patterns. Theoretical models of pattern formation suggest that a combination of negative and positive feedback mechanisms are necessary for efficient specification of distinct fates in a field of differentiating cells. Here, we examine the role of the R2R3-MYB transcription factor gene, AtMYB23 (MYB23), in the establishment of the root epidermal cell type pattern in Arabidopsis thaliana. MYB23 is closely related to, and is positively regulated by, the WEREWOLF (WER) MYB gene during root epidermis development. Furthermore, MYB23 is able to substitute for the function of WER and to induce its own expression when controlled by WER regulatory sequences. We also show that the MYB23 protein binds to its own promoter, suggesting a MYB23 positive feedback loop. The localization of MYB23 transcripts and MYB23-green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein, as well as the effect of a chimeric MYB23-SRDX repressor construct, links MYB23 function to the developing non-hair cell type. Using mutational analyses, we find that MYB23 is necessary for precise establishment of the root epidermal pattern, particularly under conditions that compromise the cell specification process. These results suggest that MYB23 participates in a positive feedback loop to reinforce cell fate decisions and ensure robust establishment of the cell type pattern in the Arabidopsis root epidermis.
!~RES~! To begin to understand the role of MYB23 in root epidermis development, we examined its expression by performing RNA in situ hybridization and reporter gene fusion experiments. The in situ RNA hybridization was performed using a digoxigenin (DIG)-labeled MYB23 gene-specific antisense probe applied to transverse sections from the developing root. We detected the strongest signal in the N-position cells in the root epidermis (Figure 1A ). This indicates that MYB23 RNA preferentially accumulates in the differentiating non-hair cells, a pattern similar to that seen for the transcript accumulation of epidermal patterning genes such as WER, CPC, and GL2 (CITATION; CITATION, CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To define the spatial pattern of MYB23 promoter activity, plants harboring a MYB23 promoter:β-glucuronidase reporter (PMYB23:GUS) transgene (CITATION) were examined. This line was previously reported to exhibit GUS expression in the cell division and differentiation zones of the root, but it was not analyzed in detail (CITATION). We discovered that PMYB23:GUS is preferentially expressed in the N-position cells in the developing root epidermis, resulting in a non-hair cell file pattern (Figure 1A). This expression profile, which displays maximal GUS activity in epidermal cells in the late meristematic zone, is most similar to that of GL2 and CPC (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). This pattern is distinct from the WER expression pattern (CITATION) because it initiates slightly later in development than WER, it is limited to the epidermis, and it is not detectable in the H cell position. Together, these results show that the MYB23 promoter activity and MYB23 transcript accumulation patterns are similar and occur preferentially in cells destined to adopt the non-hair cell fate in the root epidermis. The WER MYB protein is known to be a positive regulator of several genes expressed in the developing non-hair cells, including GL2, CPC, and ETC1 (CITATION; CITATION). To determine whether WER also influences MYB23 gene expression, we examined MYB23 RNA accumulation and PMYB23:GUS activity in roots of the wer mutant. Quantitative real-time PCR analysis showed that the steady state level of MYB23 RNA in the wer-1 mutant root is reduced to ∼19% of the wild-type root level (Figure 1B). Expression of the PMYB23:GUS transgene was nearly undetectable in the wer-1 mutant roots (Figure 1C). These results indicate that WER induces MYB23 expression in the developing root epidermis. To examine MYB23 regulation more broadly, we analyzed MYB23 transcript accumulation and PMYB23:GUS expression in various mutants defective in root epidermal cell specification. We discovered that, like wer, the ttg1 and gl3 egl3 mutant roots accumulate a significantly lower level of MYB23 RNA (42 and 10% of the wild-type level is present in the ttg1-13 and gl3-1 egl3-1 roots, respectively) (Figure 1B). Consistent with this, the ttg1-13 and gl3-1 egl3-1 mutant roots display a reduced amount of PMYB23:GUS expression, although the N cell expression pattern was retained (Figure 1C). By contrast, the cpc-1 mutant exhibited an increased level of MYB23 transcripts (∼56% greater than the wild type) (Figure 1B). This higher level of MYB23 RNA seems to be due to MYB23 promoter activity in some of the H-position epidermal cells of cpc-1 (Figure 1C). To further assess the involvement of CPC, a line overexpressing CPC (P35S:CPC) was analyzed for its effect on PMYB23:GUS, and it was found to lack MYB23 promoter activity (Figure 1C). In the roots of the gl2-1 mutant, the MYB23 transcript level and PMYB23:GUS expression were indistinguishable from those in the wild-type root (Figures 1B and 1C). These results suggest that the MYB23 gene is positively regulated by the non-hair cell–promoting WER-GL3/EGL3-TTG1 complex, negatively regulated by the hair cell–promoting CPC protein, and unaffected by the downstream GL2 homeodomain protein. Recently, we and others have shown that the WER protein directly regulates CPC transcription through its binding to three sites in the CPC promoter, designated WBSI, WBSII/CPCMBSI, and CPCMBSII (CITATION; CITATION). The core sequence of WBSI is ANNNGTT, and the core sequence of WBSII/CPCMBSI and CPCMBSII is CAAC. To explore the possibility that WER regulates MYB23 by binding directly to its promoter, we searched for WBSI-like (WBSI-L) or WBSII-like (WBSII-L) sequences in the MYB23 promoter. A total of nine WBSI-Ls and seven WBSII-Ls were identified within the 2-kb 5′ flanking region of MYB23 (which is the region sufficient to induce the normal expression of MYB23 based on the PMYB23wt:GUS reporter gene expression and myb23 mutant rescue experiments [Figure 2C ; see Supplemental Figure 1 online]), and these were tested for WER binding in an electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA). Using DNA fragments (29 to 45 nucleotides long) generated from each of these 16 sites, we detected binding of the WER protein to four sites. These are designated WBSI-L1, WBSI/II-L1, WBSII-L1, and WBSII-L2 and are located ∼1130, 630, 570, and 430 bp upstream of the MYB23 translation start site, respectively (Figure 2A). [[FIGURE]] EMSA competition experiments were conducted to assess the importance of the core sequences for WER binding to these fragments. For the WBSI-L1, WER binding was not greatly reduced in the presence of competitor DNA fragments with a mutated core sequence (m1) as compared with the effect of wild-type competitor fragments (Figure 2B), which indicates sequence-specific binding of WER to this site. For WBSII-L2, the mutated fragment (m7) was able to compete with the probe DNA, but much less efficiently than the wild-type competitor (Figure 2B), perhaps indicating that flanking sequences may also function in efficient binding of the WER protein. The WBSI/II-L1 site contains the core sequence of WBSI (ANNNGTT) and the core sequence of WBSII (CAAC) juxtaposed to each other (Figure 2A). Thus, we tested two mutated versions of this site (m2, mutated in the WBSII-like sequence; m3, mutated in the WBSI-like sequence) and found that m2 did not compete with the wild-type fragment while m3 could compete with the wild-type fragment (Figure 2B). This suggests that only the WBSII-like sequence in this region is important for WER binding. The WBSII-L1 site contains three closely linked CAAC core sequences (Figure 2A). To define the core sequence(s) important for WER binding, we mutated each of these (m4, mutated in the first CAAC; m5, mutated in the second CAAC; m6, mutated in the third CAAC) and used them in EMSA. WER binding to the wild-type WBSII-L1 site was not affected by the m5 and m6 fragments, but the m4 fragment significantly reduced the WER-WBSII-L1 binding (Figure 2B), indicating that the second and third core sequences are required for effective WER protein binding to this site, while the first core sequence is less important. To further validate these WER binding sites in the MYB23 promoter, we made stable transgenic lines containing the GUS reporter gene fused to the wild-type version or mutated versions of the 2-kb-long MYB23 promoter (Figure 2C). While the wild-type version (PMYB23wt:GUS) showed strong GUS activity in the N-position epidermal cells, the reporter gene mutated at the WBSI-L1 site (PMYB23m1:GUS) showed very low activity. The reporter genes mutated at the other three sites individually (PMYB23m2:GUS, PMYB23m5m6:GUS, and PMYB23m7:GUS), by contrast, did not show a significant difference in their GUS activities compared with the wild-type version. However, when all four mutations were combined (PMYB23m:GUS), the reporter gene activity was lower than the activity of the PMYB23m1:GUS (Figure 2C). These results show that the WBSI-L1 plays an important role in the proper expression of MYB23 and that WBSI/II-L1, WBSII-L1, and WBSII-L2 exert a minor combined role. As a predicted transcription factor protein produced from N cell–specific transcripts, MYB23 may be expected to localize and act within the nucleus of cells in the N position of the root epidermis. On the other hand, some transcription factors participating in root epidermal cell specification (e.g., CPC and GL3) are able to move from cell to cell (CITATION; CITATION). To define the location of the MYB23 protein, we generated and analyzed a transgenic line bearing an in-frame MYB23-GFP (for green fluorescent protein) reporter translational fusion (PMYB23:MYB23-GFP) (Figure 3A ). This transgene was expressed under the control of MYB23 regulatory sequences (3.1-kb 5′ flanking DNA fragment and 1.0-kb 3′ flanking DNA fragment) previously determined to be sufficient in genomic complementation experiments to rescue the trichome-branching defect in the myb23 mutant (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] We found that this translational fusion was able to rescue the branching defect in the myb23 mutant trichomes (Figure 3B), indicating that the MYB23-GFP protein functions like the native MYB23 in Arabidopsis. Analysis of the PMYB23:MYB23-GFP plants showed that GFP fluorescence was present in the nucleus of the developing root epidermal cells located in the N position (Figure 3C). As a negative control, we generated a GFP transcriptional fusion driven by the same regulatory sequences that were used for the PMYB23:MYB23-GFP construction (PMYB23:GFP), which exhibited fluorescence generally distributed throughout the cells (Figure 3C). This overall distribution seems to be caused by the nonspecific diffusion of the GFP, which is expressed in the N-position cells, based on the fact that the fluorescent signal from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)–targeted GFP driven by the same regulatory sequences is found only in the N-position cells (Figure 3C, inset). These results indicate that the MYB23 protein accumulates in the nuclei of the developing non-hair cells and does not move from cell to cell. The MYB23 protein is structurally similar to WER, exhibiting 57% amino acid sequence identity overall as well as 95% identity in their N-terminal R2R3 MYB domains and 68% identity in their C-terminal transcriptional activation domains (CITATION). To determine whether the MYB23 protein is functionally similar to WER in root epidermal cell specification, we tested the ability of the MYB23 coding region, driven by the WER regulatory sequences, to complement the wer mutant. Based on our prior study of WER regulation (CITATION), we knew that a 4.0-kb fragment 5′ to the start codon and a 1.1-kb fragment 3′ to the stop codon together represented the cis-regulatory sequences sufficient to direct normal WER gene function (Table 1 ). These same 5′ and 3′ WER regulatory sequences were fused to the MYB23 coding sequences to generate the PWER:MYB23 construct (Figure 4A ). When this construct was introduced into a wer-1 mutant background, the resulting PWER:MYB23 wer-1 plants showed normal position-dependent cell type patterning in the root epidermis, in contrast with the excessive hair cell specification in the wer mutant (Figure 4B; Table 1). Specification of Cell Types in the Root Epidermis [[FIGURE]] To further define the molecular basis of this complementation, we examined the expression of the PGL2:GUS reporter gene in these lines (Figure 4C). WER is well known to be required for the position-dependent expression of GL2 (CITATION, CITATION), so that GUS activity was hardly detected in the wer mutant roots harboring PGL2:GUS. The expression pattern of PGL2:GUS was completely restored in the PWER:MYB23 wer-1 line as well as in the PWER:WER wer-1 line, which is consistent with the normal cell type patterning in these two lines (Figure 4B; Table 1). These data indicate that the MYB23 protein is biochemically similar to WER for regulating cell fate in the root epidermis. The ability of the MYB23 protein to substitute for the WER protein in root epidermal cell specification implies that MYB23 is able to regulate the same set of genes as WER regulates, such as the GL2, CPC, and MYB23 genes. To examine this in a different manner, we converted the MYB23 protein into a transcriptional repressor by fusing the modified repressor domain of SUPERMAN (SRDX; LDLDLELRLGFA [CITATION]) in frame to the 3′ end of the MYB23 coding region (Figure 5A ). This MYB23-SRDX fusion was placed under the control of the MYB23 regulatory sequences, as defined above (3.1 kb 5′ to the start codon and 1.0 kb 3′ to the stop codon), to generate the PMYB23:MYB23-SRDX construct. Plants harboring this construct exhibited excessive root hair cell specification, due to root hair cells produced in the N position (Figure 5B; Table 1). This result is consistent with the previously reported effect of a P35S:MYB23-SRDX construct, which causes essentially all root epidermal cells to adopt the hair cell fate and also affects root elongation (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To determine whether this phenotypic effect of MYB23-SRDX is caused by a change in GL2 expression, we analyzed GL2 promoter activity by incorporating the PGL2:GUS reporter into this line. We found a significant reduction in the level of PGL2:GUS expression in the PMYB23:MYB23-SRDX roots as compared with the wild type (Figure 5C). To further determine the effect of the MYB23-SRDX on specific gene expression in root epidermis development, we examined expression of the transcriptional reporters PWER:GFP, PGL2:GUS, PCPC:GUS, and PMYB23:GUS in the PMYB23:MYB23-SRDX line as compared with the wild type. Although PWER:GFP reporter gene expression was not altered in the PMYB23:MYB23-SRDX line, the PGL2:GUS, PCPC:GUS, and PMYB23:GUS lines exhibited a decrease in reporter expression in the developing non-hair cells, even though the basic expression patterns were not changed (Figure 5D). Together, these results suggest that the MYB23 promoter is active early enough to be involved in cell fate specification in the Arabidopsis root epidermis, even though its expression starts somewhat later than WER expression, and that MYB23 normally participates in the regulation of its own gene expression as well as the regulation of the GL2 and CPC genes. Our results here show that MYB23 expression is promoted by WER and that MYB23 is able to function in a similar manner as WER in root epidermal cell specification, which implies that MYB23 participates in a positive feedback loop in the root epidermis regulatory network. To determine whether WER might also participate in a positive feedback loop, whereby it promotes the transcription of its own gene, we analyzed WER transcript accumulation and PWER:GFP expression in the wer mutant background. Real-time PCR analysis showed that the steady state level of GFP transcripts in the wer mutant root tip was not significantly different from that in the wild type (Figure 6A ). Also, the PWER:GFP expression pattern in the root tip was not altered in the wer-1 mutant (Figure 6B). This suggests that WER does not regulate its own gene expression. [[FIGURE]] To test the biological significance of MYB23 and its positive feedback loop in root epidermis development, we analyzed two myb23 mutant lines from the SALK T-DNA insertion collection (myb23-1 and myb23-3). The myb23-1 allele has a T-DNA insertion in its second intron and has been previously reported to have no detectable MYB23 transcripts (Figure 7A ) (CITATION). The myb23-3 allele has an insertion in its 5′ promoter region, ∼260 bp upstream to the start codon, and we found that it has reduced accumulation of MYB23 RNA in its roots (58% of the wild type) (Figures 7A and 7B). These myb23 mutant lines appear to have a normal root hair density (Figure 7C), but a quantitative analysis shows that both of the mutant alleles, myb23-1 and myb23-3, have a small but statistically significant increase in hair cell production in the N position (ectopic hair cells; Table 1). To analyze myb23 further, we introduced the PGL2:GUS (CITATION), PWER:GFP (CITATION), PEGL3:GUS (CITATION; CITATION), and PCPC:GUS (CITATION) transcriptional reporters into the myb23-1 mutant by genetic crosses. We did not observe any significant difference in the pattern of expression for any of these transcriptional reporters in the myb23-1 mutant, as compared with the wild type (Figure 7D). Furthermore, the steady state RNA levels of the known transcriptional regulators were not significantly changed in the myb23-1 mutant roots, except for a slight reduction in TTG1 transcripts (Figure 7E). Lastly, we tested the expression pattern of the MYB23 gene in the myb23-1 mutant, using the PMYB23:GUS reporter, and discovered no difference from the wild-type pattern (Figure 1B). Together, these results suggest that MYB23 gene function plays a minor role in the normal establishment of the cell pattern and gene regulatory activities in the developing root epidermis. [[FIGURE]] Because the myb23 mutant has relatively minor defects, we next considered the possibility that MYB23 and its positive feedback loop might help reinforce the existing cell fate determination mechanisms, so that a greater effect of myb23 might be observed under conditions where the cell specification process is compromised. We tested this possibility in two ways. First, we examined cell specification in epidermal clones in the myb23-1 mutant and the wild type. Epidermal clones result from rare longitudinal divisions usually in the H-position cells that effectively cause one of the epidermal daughter cells (and its descendants) to change their position relative to the underlying cortical cells at a relatively late stage in epidermis development (CITATION). In the wild type, the cells in the epidermal clones are able to accurately respecify their fates in a normal position-dependent manner (Table 2 ). However, we discovered that epidermal clones in the myb23-1 mutant are less able to respecify their fates properly, because approximately five times more myb23 clones possess misspecified cells than do wild-type clones (Figure 8 ; Table 2). These misspecified cells from myb23 clones preferentially occur in the N cell files (Table 2), implying that the myb23 mutant is less able to direct the non-hair fate in cells that have switched their position from the H to the N cell position. Unlike fate specification in the early stage, which involves a gradual establishment of epidermal cell pattern through several cell divisions, fate specification in these epidermal clones requires rapid establishment of the cell fate. This could explain why the positive feedback regulation via MYB23 is more important in these epidermal clones. Cell Patterning within Epidermal Clones from the Wild Type and myb23-1 [[FIGURE]] As a second method to impose suboptimal cell specification conditions, we analyzed homozygous double mutant combinations that included myb23-1 and a second mutation in one of the cell specification genes. We found that the wer-1 myb23-1, ttg1-13 myb23-1, and gl3-1 egl3-1 myb23-1 mutants showed a similar root epidermis phenotype as each mutant in the absence of the myb23-1 mutation (data not shown), which was expected given these strong single mutant phenotypes and the presumed role of MYB23 in the same pathway. However, the root epidermis phenotype of the cpc-1 myb23-1 double mutant was intermediate between the cpc-1 single mutant and the wild-type pattern, showing that the myb23-1 defect partially rescued the cpc-1 mutant (Figure 9A ; Table 1). Specifically, in the cpc-1 myb23-1 double mutant, 41.8% ± 3.6% of its H-position cells adopted the hair cell fate, while only 28.5% ± 0.9% of the H-position cells adopted the hair cell fate in the cpc-1 mutant (Table 1). To test whether this change is associated with a change in GL2 expression, we analyzed PGL2:GUS expression in the cpc-1 myb23-1 line (Figure 9B). The PGL2:GUS expression can be detected in the H-position cells (ectopic expression) as well as in the N-position cells in the cpc-1 mutant root (Figure 9B) (CITATION), but in the cpc-1 myb23-1 double mutant, many of the H-position cells do not express PGL2:GUS. This implies that MYB23 is required for non-hair cell specification in the H cell position of the cpc-1 mutant root. [[FIGURE]] To further clarify the MYB23 positive feedback loop in cell fate specification, we examined the effect of overexpression of MYB23 on the MYB23 promoter activity. Since WER promoter activity is much greater than cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter activity in the root, we used the PWER:MYB23 construct and introduced it into the wer-1 PMYB23:mGFP5-ER line. As mentioned above, the PMYB23:mGFP5-ER expression is undetectable in the wer mutant root (Figure 10 ). However, when MYB23 was expressed in the wer mutant root epidermis by the WER promoter, the fluorescent signal from PMYB23:mGFP5-ER was much higher, indicating that the MYB23 promoter activity is positively regulated by the MYB23 protein. [[FIGURE]] Next, we directly tested whether the MYB23 protein is able to bind to its own promoter. For this purpose, the MYB23 protein was expressed and purified from Escherichia coli and used in EMSA experiments. These competition experiments showed that MYB23 specifically binds to all four of the WER binding sites (WBSI-L1, WBSI/II-L1, WBSII-L1, and WBSII-L2) in the same manner as WER (Figure 11 ). Taken together, these results show that MYB23 is able to induce its own expression by directly binding to its promoter. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The following mutant lines of Arabidopsis thaliana have been described: wer-1 (CITATION), cpc (CITATION), gl3-1 (CITATION), egl3-1 (CITATION), gl2-1 (CITATION), myb23-1 (CITATION), and ttg1-13 (CITATION). The plants harboring P35S:CPC, PWER:GFP, PMYB23:GUS, PGL2:GUS, and PCPC:GUS were also described previously (CITATION; CITATION, CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The reporter genes or multiple mutations were introduced into each line by genetic crosses and subsequent verification of homozygous lines by phenotypic and/or molecular tests. For plant growth, seeds were surface-sterilized, germinated, and grown vertically on agarose-solidified medium containing mineral nutrients at 22°C under continuous light conditions (CITATION). The in situ RNA hybridization procedure has been described (CITATION). DIG-labeled RNA probes were designed to hybridize specifically to MYB23 RNA only, so they included the 5′ untranslated region (392 to 120 bp upstream from the translation start site), the variable C-terminal region (1310 to 1555 bp downstream from the translation start site), and the 3′ untranslated region (300-bp fragment from the translation stop codon). GUS activity was examined histochemically by staining 4-d-old seedlings as described (CITATION). GUS activity was measured quantitatively also from 4-d-old seedling root tips as described previously (CITATION). Total RNA was extracted from the root tips of 4-d-old seedlings using the RNeasy Plant Mini kit (Qiagen) and treated with RNase-free DNase I (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Two micrograms of total RNA was used for the reverse transcription using the AccuScript High Fidelity 1st Strand cDNA Synthesis kit (Stratagene), and 100 ng of resulting first-strand cDNA was used as a PCR template for the quantitative real-time RT-PCR. Quantitative PCR analysis was performed using SYBR Premix EX Taq (Takara) with an Mx3000P real-time PCR machine (Stratagene). Samples were denatured for 1 min at 95°C; followed by 40 cycles of 15 s of denaturation at 95°C, 30 s of annealing at 60°C, and 30 s of elongation at 72°C; followed lastly by one cycle of 1 s of denaturation at 95°C, 30 s of annealing at 65°C, and 30 s of denaturation at 95°C. After the renaturation, the melting parameters were assessed. EF1 was used as an internal reference to normalize the relative level of each transcript. Each experiment was repeated three to six times, and each time the experiment included triplicate samples. The EMSA was performed essentially as described earlier (CITATION). DNA fragments were labeled by T4 polynucleotide kinase and [γ-32P]ATP (>3000 Ci/mmol, 10 mCi/mL) and purified on a gel. Labeled DNA fragments and the WER protein were mixed, incubated, and resolved on a 6% polyacrylamide gel in 0.5× tri-borate-EDTA (TBE) buffer. The gel was dried and the signal was visualized using BAS-2500 (Fuji Film). Expression of the WER and MYB23 protein in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) and purification of the protein using His·Bind Quick 900 cartridges (Novagen) were performed as described previously (CITATION). GFP expression in seedlings was counterstained with 5 μg/mL propidium iodide solution for 5 min and examined using a Zeiss LSM510 Meta confocal microscope, with excitation at 488 nm and detection with a 500- to 530-nm band-path filter for GFP and excitation at 543 nm and detection with a 560-nm long-path filter for propidium iodide (CITATION). To examine the subcellular localization of the MYB23 protein, the genomic DNA fragments of the MYB23 coding region were PCR-amplified and fused to the N terminus of GFP (mGFP5 without the N-terminal signal peptide sequence and the C-terminal sequence for retention of GFP in the ER) (CITATION) in-frame. This chimeric MYB23-GFP was inserted between a 3.1-kb 5′ flanking region DNA fragment and a 1-kb 3′ flanking region DNA fragment from the MYB23 gene (PMYB23:MYB23-GFP). For PMYB23:GFP or PMYB23:mGFP5-ER, the soluble GFP coding region or ER-targeted version of the GFP coding region (mGFP5-ER) was inserted between the same 5′ and 3′ flanking region DNA fragments, respectively (CITATION). To generate the MYB23-SRDX construct, genomic DNA fragments of the MYB23 coding region were PCR-amplified using a primer that contains the SRDX nucleotide sequence (CITATION) at the end, which resulted in the fusion of the SRDX to the C terminus of the MYB23 coding region. This MYB23-SRDX DNA fragment was inserted between a 3.1-kb 5′ flanking region DNA fragment and a 1-kb 3′ flanking region DNA fragment from the MYB23 gene (PMYB23:MYB23-SRDX). PWER:WER has been described previously (CITATION). For PWER:MYB23, the same regulatory sequences (a 4.0-kb 5′ flanking region to the start codon and a 1.1-kb 3′ flanking region to the stop codon) were used to direct the MYB23 expression. To express and purify the MYB23 protein from E. coli, the MYB23 coding region excluding the region coding for the last 24 amino acids was PCR-amplified and inserted in the vector pET28(a). All of the DNA fragments PCR-amplified using iProof High-Fidelity DNA polymerase (Bio-Rad) were sequenced and confirmed to be error-free. We used pCB302 vector as a binary vector for plant transformation (CITATION). Plant transformation was achieved by electroporating constructs into the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 followed by introduction into Arabidopsis using the floral dip method as described previously (CITATION). T1 seeds were harvested, and transgenic plants were selected by spraying commercially available basta three times per week for 2 weeks. Primer sequences used are listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: CPC (At2g46410), EGL3 (At1g63650), GL2 (At1g79840), GL3 (At5g41315), MYB23 (At5g40330), TTG1 (At5g24520), and WER (At5g14750). Germplasm identification numbers from this article are as follows: cpc-1 (CS6399), gl2-1 (CS65), gl3-1 (CS66), myb23-1 (SALK_048592), myb23-3 (SALK_018613), and wer-1 (CS6349). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Complementation of the trichome-branching defect of myb23-1 using the MYB23 gene including the 2-kb 5′ flanking DNA fragment and the 1-kb 3′ flanking DNA fragment (PMYB23-2kb:MYB23). Supplemental Table 1. Primer sequences used in this study.
