!~ABS~! In plants, very-long-chain fatty acids (VLCFAs; >18 carbon) are precursors of sphingolipids, triacylglycerols, cuticular waxes, and suberin. VLCFAs are synthesized by a multiprotein membrane-bound fatty acid elongation system that catalyzes four successive enzymatic reactions: condensation, reduction, dehydration, and a second reduction. A bioinformatics survey of the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) genome has revealed two sequences homologous to YBR159w encoding a Saccharomyces cerevisiae β-ketoacyl reductase (KCR), which catalyzes the first reduction during VLCFA elongation. Expression analyses showed that both AtKCR1 and AtKCR2 genes were transcribed in siliques, flowers, inflorescence stems, leaves, as well as developing embryos, but only AtKCR1 transcript was detected in roots. Fluorescent protein-tagged AtKCR1 and AtKCR2 were localized to the endoplasmic reticulum, the site of fatty acid elongation. Complementation of the yeast ybr159Δ mutant demonstrated that the two KCR proteins are divergent and that only AtKCR1 can restore heterologous elongase activity similar to the native yeast KCR gene. Analyses of insertional mutants in AtKCR1 and AtKCR2 revealed that loss of AtKCR1 function results in embryo lethality, which cannot be rescued by AtKCR2 expression using the AtKCR1 promoter. In contrast, a disruption of the AtKCR2 gene had no obvious phenotypic effect. Taken together, these results indicate that only AtKCR1 is a functional KCR isoform involved in microsomal fatty acid elongation. To investigate the roles of AtKCR1 in postembryonic development, transgenic lines expressing RNA interference and overexpression constructs targeted against AtKCR1 were generated. Morphological and biochemical characterization of these lines confirmed that suppressed KCR activity results in a reduction of cuticular wax load and affects VLCFA composition of sphingolipids, seed triacylglycerols, and root glycerolipids, demonstrating in planta that KCR is involved in elongation reactions supplying VLCFA for all these diverse classes of lipids.
!~RES~! The isolation of the yeast KCR gene YBR159w resulted in the identification of a single Arabidopsis ortholog, At1g67730 (CITATION), which we refer to as AtKCR1. Further exploration of the Arabidopsis genome revealed another KCR-like sequence, At1g24470 (CITATION), which we designate AtKCR2. AtKCR1 has a 957-bp open reading frame (ORF) that encodes a protein of 318 amino acids with a predicted molecular mass of 35.7 kD. AtKCR2 has a 939-bp ORF that encodes a protein of 312 amino acids with a predicted molecular mass of 35.0 kD. Both these proteins have a putative NADH binding site and contain highly conserved Ser-Tyr-Lys residues essential for catalysis (CITATION), though a dilysine motif required for ER retention is obvious only in AtKCR1 (Supplemental Fig. S1). Unlike the maize orthologs GL8A and GL8B that are 97% identical and have partially redundant biochemical functions (CITATION), AtKCR1 and AtKCR2 exhibit only 45% amino acid identity (Table I ), suggesting that they could play diverse roles in VLCFA production in Arabidopsis. Percentage of amino acid sequence identity (similarity) between different KCR proteins To investigate the in planta function of the two predicted AtKCR enzymes, we initiated a reverse genetic approach by identifying insertional mutants disrupted in AtKCR1 and AtKCR2 genes. A single line, RATH12-5282-1-G, obtained from Plant Functional Genomics Research Group of RIKEN Genomic Sciences Center (CITATION) was found to carry a Ds transposon in the second intron of the AtKCR1 gene. The exact site of insertion was determined by sequencing the PCR product generated using a combination of gene- and Ds transposon-specific primers (Fig. 1A ). Surprisingly, no homozygous atkcr1/atkcr1 plants were identified by PCR genotyping of the progeny of the self-fertilized insertion line, and the segregation of wild-type to heterozygous plants was approximately 1:2 (47:103), suggesting that homozygous kcr1 loss-of-function mutation may be embryo-lethal. To test this hypothesis, we dissected the siliques developing on heterozygous AtKCR1/atkcr1 plants and compared them with the siliques from the wild-type plants. Siliques from the wild type contained uniformly green developing seeds, whereas siliques from the self-fertilized AtKCR1/atkcr1 heterozygotes contained approximately 25% (28/120) of aborted seeds. Initially, aborted seeds appeared white or transparent in color at a stage when wild-type appearing siblings were green (Fig. 1C). Later on, the aborted seeds were dark brown, shrunken, and deformed (Fig. 1D). Attempts to confirm by PCR amplification that these aborted seeds were indeed homozygous kcr1 mutants failed. However, reverse transcription (RT)-PCR analysis using AtKCR1-specific primers showed reduced AtKCR1 transcript levels in AtKCR1/atkcr1heterozygotes and no detectable transcript in the presumed homozygous white seeds (Fig. 1E). [[FIGURE]] Seeds from siliques developing on heterozygous plants were further analyzed by differential interference contrast (DIC) microscopy (Fig. 2 ) to compare the progression of embryogenesis in these two seed types. In young siliques, all the seeds were white and contained embryos at the globular stage. However, in older siliques, only wild-type-appearing green seeds continued to develop normally with embryos proceeding from globular stage (Fig. 2A) to maturation (Fig. 2F) over the course of 8 d after flowering. In contrast, embryos from white seeds arrested at the globular stage (Fig. 2, G–L). [[FIGURE]] We also obtained two T-DNA insertion lines in the AtKCR2 gene, SALK_096487 (CITATION) and SAIL _536_H04 (CITATION), with T-DNA insertions in the second and fourth exons, respectively (Fig. 1B). No visible developmental phenotypes were observed in homozygous atkcr2 progenies from either T-DNA mutant line. To determine if the two apparent Arabidopsis homologs are both constitutively expressed and to delineate their expression domains, we performed RT-PCR analyses and β-glucuronidase (GUS) assays in transgenic plants transformed with AtKCR1promoter-GUS and AtKCR2promoter-GUS constructs. As shown in Figure 3 , both genes are expressed in green siliques, flowers, inflorescence stems, and leaves, with the highest expression levels detected in siliques and flowers. High AtKCR1 transcript levels were also present in roots, whereas AtKCR2 transcript was almost undetectable in root tissues. These expression results were confirmed by GUS activity assays (Fig. 4 ). In addition, AtKCR1promoter- and AtKCR2promoter-directed GUS activity was also detected in embryos of different stages (Fig. 4, A–F and L–R) and young developing seedlings (Fig. 4, G and S) but was absent from mature seeds (Fig. 4, K and W) and stem bases (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To compare the subcellular localization of the AtKCR1 and AtKCR2, yellow fluorescent protein (YFP)-AtKCR1 and cyan fluorescent protein (CFP)-AtKCR2 fusion constructs were initially transiently expressed in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) under the control of the 35S promoter. Visualization of tobacco leaves revealed that both proteins were localized in the ER (data not shown). We also introduced both fluorescent protein fusion constructs into Arabidopsis. To ensure that the YFP-AtKCR1 is fully functional, we expressed it in AtKCR1/atkcr1 heterozygous plants. Sixteen out of 20 recovered independent transgenic lines had siliques with only green wild-type-looking seeds and no white seeds, indicating complementation (Fig. 5B ) and demonstrating that the mutation in the AtKCR1 gene is responsible for the embryo lethality. In all the complemented YFP-AtKCR1 transgenic lines examined by confocal microscopy, YFP fluorescence labeled a reticulate network typical of the ER (Fig. 5C). Because the disruption of AtKCR2 did not result in a detectable phenotype, we could not verify if the CFP-AtKCR2 fusion protein is active by complementation of a loss-of-function mutant, but we decided to proceed with its localization. For this purpose, we transformed the 35Spromoter-CFP-AtKCR2 fusion construct into wild-type Arabidopsis. This experiment revealed that the AtKCR2 protein also resides in the ER (Fig. 5G). [[FIGURE]] AtKCR1 has been previously shown to restore heterologous elongase activity of the yeast ybr159Δ mutant similar to the expression of native yeast KCR gene YBR159 (CITATION), indicating that the Arabidopsis and yeast enzymes are functionally equivalent and that AtKCR1 also likely catalyzes the reduction of the β-ketoacyl-CoA. This result was confirmed in this study (Fig. 6 ). By contrast, the expression of AtKCR2 failed to restore heterologous fatty acid elongation mediated by either FAE1 or the Isochrysis galbana Δ9-ELO-like elongating activity (CITATION) in the ybr159Δ yeast mutant (Fig. 6) and also failed to rescue the slow growth phenotype of ybr159Δ yeast cells associated with impaired endogenous elongase function (data not shown), suggesting that AtKCR2 has no KCR activity in yeast. [[FIGURE]] The fact that atkcr1 loss-of-function mutation is embryo lethal suggests that either AtKCR2 is not a functional KCR or that AtKCR2 is not expressed during embryogenesis. GUS activity assays in transgenic plants transformed with the AtKCR2promoter:GUS construct (Fig. 4, L–W) and global gene expression analyses during Arabidopsis embryogenesis (CITATION) indicate that AtKCR2 is transcribed at all times during embryo development, albeit at a much lower level than AtKCR1. To determine if the low expression level of AtKCR2 was the reason why AtKCR2 could not support embryogenesis in the absence of AtKCR1 or whether the AtKCR2 was indeed inactive, we expressed AtKCR2 using the AtKCR1 promoter in the AtKCR1/atkcr1 background. In contrast to AtKCR1, which complemented the atkcr1 mutant (Fig. 5B), AtKCR2 could not rescue the embryo lethality of atkcr1 even when expressed in the AtKCR1 manner behind the AtKCR1 promoter (data not shown), confirming that it is not a functional KCR isoform. Embryo lethality prevented further phenotypic analysis on homozygous atkcr1 lines, and no developmental differences or changes in seed VLCFA composition or cuticular wax accumulation were detected in AtKCR1/atkcr1 heterozygotes in comparison with wild-type plants. We therefore generated transgenic plants in which AtKCR1 was down-regulated by RNAi to characterize their morphological and biochemical phenotypes and determine the role of AtKCR1 in the different VLCFA metabolic pathways. To test the specificity of our RNAi construct and ensure that the phenotypes that we describe are due to suppression of AtKCR1 alone, we performed RT-PCR analysis of the RNAi suppressed plants using mRNA prepared from flowers that showed high KCR1 and KCR2 expression in the wild type in previous assays (Fig. 3). This experiment confirmed that the RNAi construct specifically down-regulates the expression of only AtKCR1, but not AtKCR2 (Supplemental Fig. S2). Twenty T1 RNAi transformants were chosen for further evaluation. These plants displayed a variety of phenotypes, including growth retardation and fused rosette leaves (Fig. 7, A and D ). Individuals with the most severe morphological phenotype never formed rosettes, but instead produced incompletely developed leaf-like structures (Fig. 7A). They were also highly sensitive to dehydration and needed to be cultivated in a controlled environment with atmospheric humidity above 85% in wet soil at all times. Eleven T1 plants failed to grow to maturity, developed necrotic spots, and died. From the nine remaining plants, three (designated 4, 6, and 7) required mechanical organ separations to allow distorted leaves and inflorescence stems to develop (Fig. 7, C and D). [[FIGURE]] Soil-grown T2 progeny of these AtKCR-RNAi primary transformants exhibited two predominant phenotypes: glossy inflorescence stems (Fig. 7G) or twisted and curled fiddlehead (fdh)-like stems that were not obviously glossy (Fig. 7H). Both glossy and nonglossy plants were present in the progeny of the 4, 6, and 7 lines. These three lines, together with a fourth line (line 9, showing a less extreme phenotype), were selected for a detailed morphological and biochemical characterization. Examination of the flowers from glossy plants revealed an unusual bushy stigma morphology with longer papillae and stamen with shorter filaments unable to position anthers at the height of the stigma, similar to that reported for cer10 (CITATION; Fig. 7E). These plants also produced short and crooked siliques, containing mostly aborted seeds, suggesting a problem with pollen viability/fertility (Fig. 7F). Cross-pollination of glossy plants with wild-type pollen resulted in longer siliques and a considerably increased number of seeds produced (data not shown). Similar short and crooked siliques were also found on the nonglossy plants. Interestingly, mature dried seeds collected from both glossy and nonglossy AtKCR-RNAi plants were considerably larger than seeds collected from wild-type plants grown under identical conditions (Table II ). Dry weight of seeds collected from glossy and nonglossy AtKCR RNAi plants compared to the wild type Each value is the mean of three independent measurements ± sd. GL, Glossy; NGL, nonglossy. An aspect of the AtKCR-RNAi phenotype that has not previously been reported in other mutants impaired in VLCFA biosynthesis is the abnormal root morphology of the glossy plants (Fig. 7J). When grown horizontally on plates, the roots of these plants ran on the surface of the gel matrix, lacked lateral branches, and had dramatically reduced root hairs (Fig. 7J, inset). Closer observation revealed that lateral root primordia were formed but did not elongate. In contrast, roots of nonglossy plants with curly inflorescences appeared wild-type. To determine if the phenotypes observed were due to AtKCR1 RNAi suppression, AtKCR1 transcript levels in transgenic lines were determined by RT-PCR in 15-d-old-seedlings and in a number of tissues from 8-week-old T2 plants. As shown in Figure 8 , in the developing seedlings and in all of the tissues analyzed, the levels of AtKCR1 transcripts were lower than in the wild type. The reduction in KCR transcripts was more pronounced in the glossy plants compared with the more limited reduction observed in the nonglossy lines. Within each line and for each plant phenotype (glossy or nonglossy), levels of AtKCR1 transcripts were similar in all tissues. These results show a clear correlation between reduced levels of AtKCR1 transcripts and increased severity of the phenotype in the T2 generation. [[FIGURE]] We also overexpressed the AtKCR1 cDNA under the control of 35S promoter. About 50% of transgenic lines displayed abnormal phenotypes, similar to those of the AtKCR1-RNAi lines, including dwarfism, curly cauline leaves, fused flower buds, and bright green glossy stems (Supplemental Fig. S3, A–C). To investigate if these phenotypes were caused by AtKCR1 cosuppression, AtKCR1 transcript levels in a variety of tissues of transgenic plants were determined by RT-PCR. As shown in Supplemental Figure S3D, in cauline leaves, stems, and floral buds, the organs exhibiting the most pronounced phenotypes, AtKCR1 transcript levels were considerably lower than in the wild type. As previously reported for cer10, fdh, wbc11, and wax2/pel6, both glossy and nonglossy AtKCR-RNAi plants display clearly altered trichome morphology (Fig. 9, A–F ). As shown in Figure 9B, trichomes are sparsely distributed, have fused branches in glossy plants, and have shorter or bent branches in nonglossy plants (Fig. 9C). Scanning electron microscopy examination showed that the basal cells of these trichomes are swollen and bulging out of the epidermal surface (Fig. 9, D–F). A further inspection of the surface of young leaves revealed impaired integrity of the epidermis in glossy plants. Groups of cells appeared swollen to the point were they did not adhere tightly to each other, resulting in deep intercellular grooves (Fig. 9, G–I) and probably contributing to the extreme sensitivity of glossy AtKCR1-RNAi plants to dehydration. This type of abnormal epidermal structure could not be detected in nonglossy plants. [[FIGURE]] Organ fusions and stem glossiness observed in the AtKCR1-RNAi plants are typically associated with defects in plant cuticles. Cuticle abnormalities can be detected by a toluidine blue (TB) test, which results in staining of organs with permeable cuticles (CITATION). We used the TB test to evaluate cuticles of glossy line 4 and nonglossy line 9 individuals (Fig. 10A ). The test resulted in complete staining of line 4 glossy seedlings, indicating severe cuticular abnormalities of this RNAi line. Nonglossy line 9 seedlings displayed a range of partially stained patterns, including patchy or random staining as observed for fdh and cer14 mutants (Fig. 10A; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Because VLCFAs are precursors of all the aliphatic components of cuticular wax, we suspected that cuticle permeability of AtKCR1-RNAi lines may at least in part be due to reduced wax accumulation. We therefore examined the glossy inflorescence stem surfaces of the AtKCR1-RNAi plants by scanning electron microscopy. As shown in Figure 10B, wild-type stems are densely covered with epicuticular wax crystals. In contrast, glossy stem surfaces of AtKCR1-RNAi plants are virtually devoid of wax crystals. Wax analyses confirmed major reductions in wax loads in AtKCR1-RNAi plants. The total wax coverage on wild-type Columbia-0 (Col-0) inflorescence stems under the conditions used here was 1086 μg per g fresh weight. In contrast, wax loads measured in glossy AtKCR1-RNAi plants reached 124.2 μg per g fresh weight (11.4% of the wild type) in line 7 (7 GL) and 42.8 μg per g fresh weight (3.9% of the wild type) in line 6 (6 GL; Fig. 11 ). Quantification of wax components demonstrated that reduced wax loads were due to decreased accumulation of all compound classes (Fig. 11). In nonglossy AtKCR1-RNAi plants, the decrease in wax load was far less pronounced, and it was proportional to the levels of AtKCR1 transcripts detected in the stem of those plants (Fig. 8). Wax loads measured for nonglossy plants from lines 7 and 9 were 811 and 869 μg per g fresh weight (75% and 80% of the wild type), respectively (Fig. 11, inset). However, these data indicate that while lines 7 and 9 were phenotypically classified as nonglossy, they do have a reduction in wax load, as might be expected for plants with an impaired capacity to synthesize VLCFAs. [[FIGURE]] Since Arabidopsis leaves contain very low levels of VLCFAs, we analyzed the fatty acid composition in the roots of wild-type and AtKCR-RNAi plants that exhibit abnormal root morphology (Fig. 7J). A clear reduction in the content of C20, C22, and C24 fatty acids was detected in glossy lines 4 and 6 (Fig. 12, A and B ). VLCFAs accounted for 5.6% of the total root fatty acid extracted from wild-type Col-0 plants grown in this study, predominantly reported in phospholipids, such as phosphatidylethanolamine and phosphatidylserine (CITATION). The VLCFA content measured in glossy plants was reduced to 1.4% and 1.7% in lines 4 and 6 (24% and 29% of the wild type), respectively. The VLCFA content in nonglossy plants was similar to that of wild-type plants with 5.3% and 5.6% measured in lines 7 and 9, respectively. These results correlated well with the levels of VLCFAs measured in the acyl-CoA pool in roots of the same plants (Fig. 12C). [[FIGURE]] Surprisingly, in the root fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) extracts prepared from glossy plants, we detected three novel peaks (Fig. 12, A and B, peaks 1–3) that were either absent or low in wild-type extracts. These peaks were tentatively identified by mass spectrometry as C16 and C18 α,ω-dicarboxylic acids and an ω-hydroxy fatty acid, compounds that are abundant in the cutin and suberin in Arabidopsis (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). The presence of these usually highly polymerized constituents in the AtKCR1-RNAi FAME samples after mild methanolic acid extraction may reflect the altered composition and/or structure of the suberin when the synthesis of longer C20, C22, and C24 compounds is reduced. The nonglossy plant extracts did not contain the three additional compounds founds in the roots of glossy plants. Because Arabidopsis seed oil also contains VLCFAs, we examined the fatty acid composition and content of mature dry seeds. Compositional analyses of oil produced by the AtKCR1-RNAi seeds revealed that only the oil from glossy plants was depleted in C20 and C22 saturated and monounsaturated fatty acids. The total VLCFAs content in these seeds was about 30% lower compared to the wild type (Table III ; Fig. 13 ). The larger seeds collected from both glossy and nonglossy AtKCR1-RNAi plants had a higher fatty acid content than wild-type seeds (Tables II and III). Overall, the increase in total fatty acid content was largely proportional to the increase in seed size and did not result from a higher proportion of oil as a percentage of the seed weight (data not shown). Fatty acid composition of seed storage lipids in wild-type and AtKCR-RNAi lines (mol %) Each value is the mean of three independent measurements ± sd. GL, Glossy; NGL, nonglossy. [[FIGURE]] To evaluate the effect of reduced AtKCR1 expression on VLCFA incorporation into sphingolipids, we analyzed the complex sphingolipid composition in the stems of glossy and nonglossy AtKCR1-RNAi plants that all exhibit abnormal shoot morphology. All the examined lines accumulated free long-chain bases (LCBs), which are characteristic of impaired sphingolipid metabolism as reported for the yeast FAE mutants (CITATION; Fig. 14A ). In addition, a moderate but statistically significant decrease in almost all the sphingolipid species was detected (Fig. 14B). Conversely, neither the accumulation of free LCBs nor the reduction in any of the sphingolipid species could be detected in the stems of morphologically normal plants (data not shown). This suggests that the twisted shoot phenotype may also be caused by altered sphingolipid structure and not only the defective cuticular lipid composition as proposed for the fdh mutant. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The Ds transposon insertional line (RATH12-5282-1-G) was obtained from Plant Functional Genomics Research Group of RIKEN Genomic Sciences Center (CITATION), whereas SALK_096487 and SAIL_536_H04 T-DNA insertional lines were ordered from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (www.arabidopsis.org). The seeds were germinated on AT-agar plates (CITATION) and grown in soil (Sunshine Mix 5; SunGro) at 20°C under continuous light (90–120 μE m−2 s−1 photosynthetically active radiation). After transformation with the KCR1-RNAi construct, T1 seeds were surface sterilized, spread evenly onto agar plates containing kanamycin, stratified for 3 d in a cold room, and germinated at 22°C under continuous light (150 μE m−2 s−1). After 2 weeks, kanamycin-resistant plant were transferred to soil and grown in a controlled environment cabinet with a photoperiod of 16 h light (150 μE m−2 s−1) at 22°C and 8 h dark at 18°C, keeping the soil damp and atmospheric humidity above 80%. Cuticular wax was extracted and analyzed as described by CITATION. For the determination of the seed fatty acid composition, FAMEs were prepared by incubation with methanolic-HCl (Supelco) at 80°C for 2 h, followed by extraction with hexane and analysis by gas-liquid chromatography (CITATION). Total fatty acids from leaves and root tissues and from yeast cultures were extracted and methylated as described before (CITATION; CITATION). Total FAMEs were analyzed by gas chromatography and identified by mass spectrometry. Acyl-CoA extraction and profiling was carried out as described by CITATION. Sphingolipids were extracted from root and shoot tissues and quantified as detailed by CITATION. Total RNAs from aerial tissues of 2- to 6-week-old Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) plants were extracted using TRIZOL reagent (Invitrogen Life Technologies) following the manufacturer's instructions. Total RNA from root tissue was isolated from 14-d-old seedlings grown on AT-agar plates placed vertically. For RT-PCR analysis of AtKCR1 mRNA levels in seeds from immature siliques, total RNA (2.5 μg) from each sample, treated with RNase-free DNase (Promega), was used for reverse transcriptase reactions. First-strand cDNA was synthesized with random hexamers using a SuperScript first-strand synthesis system according to the manufacturer's manual (Invitrogen Life Technologies), and the constitutive expression gene glyceraldehyde-3-P dehydrogenase C subunit was used as a control for RT-PCR experiments. One microliter of reverse transcription reaction mixture was used as a template in a 20-μL PCR. The primer sequences used were as follows: AtKCR1 forward primer 5′-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTTCATGGAGATCTGCACTTACTTCAAAT-3′ (bold sequences = directional attB sites) and AtKCR1 reverse primer 5′-GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTCTTCTTTCTTCATGGAGTCTTTTTGG-3′. The amplification conditions were 94°C (30 s), 56°C (30 s), and 72°C (30 s), and the number of cycles varied from 28 to 32 for different genes. Each RT-PCR was repeated twice. For RT-PCR analysis of AtKCR1 and AtKCR2 mRNA levels in 2- to 6-week-old plant tissues, total RNA (2.5 μg) from each sample, treated with Turbo DNA-free DNase (Ambion), was used for reverse transcriptase reactions. First-strand cDNA was synthesized using oligo(dT)12-18 primer and SuperScript II reverse transcriptase according to the manufacturer's instructions (Invitrogen). The constitutive expression gene tubulin (α-1 tubulin) was used as a control for RT-PCR experiments. One microliter of reverse transcription reaction mixture was used as a template in a 25-μL PCR. The primer sequences used were as follows: AtKCR1 forward primer 5′-GGCCGGTACCATGGAGATCTGCACTTAC-3′ and AtKCR1 reverse primer 5′- GGCCCTCGAGTCATTCTTTCTTCATGGA-3′ or AtKCR2 forward primer 5′-GGCCGGTACCATGCAGGGAGCATGCATCTC-3′ and AtKCR2 reverse primer 5′-GGCCCTCGAGTTAAGATAAACTTCTTCTGC-3′. The amplification conditions were 94°C (30 s), 55°C (30 s), and 72°C (60 s), and the number of cycles varied from 25 to 28 for different genes. Each RT-PCR was repeated three times. The full-length cDNAs of AtKCR1 and AtKCR2 were obtained by RT-PCR with primers containing Gateway (Invitrogen) recombination sites (bold sequences), AtKCR1 forward primer 5′-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTTCATGGAGATCTGCACTTACTTCAAAT-3′ and reverse primer 5′-GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTCTTCTTTCTTCATGGAGTCTTTTTGG-3′; AtKCR2 forward primer 5′-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTTCATGCAGGGAGCATGCATCTCCGAGA-3′ and reverse primer 5′-GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTCAGATAAACTTCTTCTGCGAAGTCCG-3′, and subcloned into Gateway donor vector (pDONR207; CITATION). After sequencing the coding sequences of the AtKCR1 and AtKCR2 genes, the confirmed clones of AtKCR1 and AtKCR2 were transferred into the Gateway destination vectors pMDC32 (CITATION), for overexpression, or pEarleygate101 (CITATION), for determination of subcellular localizations of AtKCR1 and AtKCR2. The destination vectors were introduced into 5-week-old relevant Arabidopsis plants by Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation (CITATION). The first 390 bp of AtKCR1 were amplified using either primers KCR1RNAiXhoF (5′-GGCCCTCGAGATGGAGATCTGCACTTAC-3′) and KCR1RNAiKpnR (5′-GGCCGGTACCATCTAATCCTTCAATACT-3′) or primers KCR1RNAiXbaF (5′-GGCCTCTAGAATGGAGATCTGCACTTAC-3′) and KCR1RNAiClaR (5′-GGCCATCGATATCTAATCCTTCAATACT-3′). The amplified products were subcloned into the pCR4-TOPO vector (Invitrogen) and sequenced. Verified inserts were restricted from pCR4-TOPO using XhoI and KpnI or XbaI and ClaI (underlined in primer sequences) and cloned in sense or antisense orientation, respectively, into the pKannibal vector (CITATION). The hairpin RNA encoding cassette thus created was restricted from pKannibal using NotI and cloned into a NotI cut pART27 binary vector. This construct was introduced into Arabidopsis (ecotype Col) by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation as described in CITATION. Wild-type and ybr159wΔ mutant yeast strains expressing either AtFAE1 or IgELO9 (Isochrysis galbana; IgASE1) pYES2 constructs have been described before (CITATION, CITATION). The AtKCR2 ORF was amplified by PCR using primers AtKCR2-Fwd (5′-GGCCGGATCCATGCAGGGAGCATGCATCTC-3′) and AtKCR2-Rev (5′-GGCCGGTACCTTAAGATAAACTTCTTCTGC-3′). The amplified sequence was restricted using BamHI and KpnI (underlined in the forward and reverse primers, respectively), purified using the Qiagen PCR purification kit, and ligated into a BamHI/KpnI cut pESC-TRP plasmid vector (Stratagene). For functional complementation studies, the ybr159wΔ strains described above were cotransformed with pESC-TRP constructs containing either YBR159w, AtKCR1 (CITATION), or AtKCR2 (this study). The empty pESC-TRP vector was used as negative control. Yeast cells were cultivated and the transgenes induced in the presence or absence of exogenously supplied fatty acid substrate as described previously (CITATION). A length of 780 bp of the 5′ promoter region of AtKCR1 was amplified from genomic DNA by PCR using forward primer 5′-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTTCACCCTTTGGACTTACCAACG-3′ and reverse primer 5′-GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTCAGGTTGAGACTTTGGAGATGAGA-3′. The amplified product was introduced into Gateway entry vector by Gateway BP Clonase enzyme mix (Invitrogen). The confirmed entry clones were transferred into destination vector pMDC163 (CITATION) carrying the GUS gene. The generated construct was introduced into wild-type Col-0 plants by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. For GUS activity assays, 1- or 2-week-old seedlings, leaves, flowers, and siliques from 4-week-old plants, and embryos of different developmental stages were incubated in GUS assay buffer (50 mm sodium phosphate, pH 7.0, 0.5 mm potassium ferricyanide, 0.5 mm potassium ferrocyanide, 0.1% [v/v] Triton X-100, and 0.5 mg/mL 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-glucuronide) at 37°C overnight. Then, samples were cleared in 70% ethanol and visualized by light microscopy. For rapid visualization of leaf cuticle defects, we used the TB test described by CITATION with the following differences. After surface sterilization, seeds were sown on plate containing half-concentration CITATION medium solidified with 0.5% (w/v) phytagel (Sigma-Aldrich). For the YFP or CFP fusion protein localization analysis, leaf samples of transgenic plants were examined using confocal laser scanning microscope as described by CITATION. Excitation light wavelength was 458 to 514 nm, the emission filter set at 505 to 530 nm, and autofluorescence was detected using an emission filter set at 600 to 650 nm. Siliques of different developmental stages from heterozygous plants were dissected. Ovules from individual siliques were mounted on slides in Hoyer's clearing solution (chloral hydrate, water, glycerol, 8:2:1 v/v) and cleared overnight at 4°C (CITATION). The cleared ovule was observed with a LSM 510 Meta DIC microscope (Carl Zeiss). For electron microscopy, sections of stem and leaves were mounted on Al cryo stubs using Optimal Cutting Temperature compound (Ted Pella) and plunge frozen in slushed liquid nitrogen. The samples were then transferred to the cryo chamber stage under vacuum and etched for 2 min at −95°C. The stage temperature was returned to −175°C, and the samples were coated for 90 s with Au Pd. The samples were then loaded on a JEOL 6700 FEG scanning electron microscope chamber stage maintained at −160°C for imaging using the on board software. For routine sequence comparison, BLAST was used (CITATION). The amino acid sequences were aligned using the ClustalW program (CITATION). Transmembrane spanning helices were predicted using the DAS transmembrane prediction server (http://www.sbc.su.se/∼miklos/DAS/). Motifs were predicted using the ELPH program (http://www.cbcb.umd.edu/software/ELPH). The FASTA sequence comparison program (http://wrpmg5c.bioch.virginia.edu/fasta_www2/fasta_www.cgi) was used for sequence identity and similarity. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers NY143811 (AtKCR1), NM102292 (AtKCR2), AY557868 (Ybr159), AF302098 (GL8a), and AF527771 (GL8b). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Sequence comparisons of AtKCR1 and AtKCR2 with homologs from other species. Supplemental Figure S2. Expression of AtKCR1 and AtKCR2 in AtKCR1-RNAi plants. Supplemental Figure S3. The phenotypes of cosuppressed plants.
