!~ABS~! Although several glycine-rich protein (GRP) genes were isolated and characterized, very little is known about their function. The primary structure of AtGRP5 from Arabidopsis thaliana has a signal peptide followed by a region with high glycine content. In this work, green fluorescent protein fusions were obtained in order to characterize the sub-cellular localization of the AtGRP5 protein. The results indicated that this protein is the first described vacuolar GRP. Sense, antisense and RNAi transgenic A. thaliana plants were generated and analyzed phenotypically. Plants overexpressing AtGRP5 showed longer roots and an enhanced elongation of the inflorescence axis, while antisense and RNAi plants demonstrated the opposite phenotype. The analysis of a knockout T-DNA line corroborates the phenotypes obtained with the antisense and RNAi plants. Altogether, these results suggest that this vacuolar GRP could be involved in organ growth by promoting cell elongation processes.
!~RES~! The Arabidopsis AtGRP5 (At3g20470) is a 13.7 kDa protein with high glycine content (58%). AtGRP5 contains at its N-terminal portion a signal peptide consensus sequence followed by a glycine-rich region with (G-X)n repeats without any other characterized signature. This feature implicates AtGRP5 as a member of the class I GRP family (see Sachetto-Martins et al. CITATION and Fusaro et al. CITATION for classification). To analyze the function of the AtGRP5 gene, we generated three series of transgenic Arabidopsis plants with decreased levels of expression of this gene in planta. In the first series, the suppression of AtGRP5 mRNA levels was attempted by constitutive expression of an antisense construct driven by the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter (A5 lines). In the second series, the antisense construct was expressed under the control of its own promoter (A*5 lines). Plants from the third series express an AtGRP5 RNAi construct under the control of CaMV 35S promoter (Ri5 lines). Fourteen out of 16 obtained transgenic plants of the A5 lines, 12 out of 15 of the A*5 lines and 9 out of 11 of the Ri5 lines presented phenotypic alterations (data not shown). Although with different intensities, the introduction of all three constructs in Arabidopsis led to the same phenotype. Plants carrying these constructs showed shorter roots (Fig. 1a) and shorter inflorescence axis (Fig. 1b). As expected, the RNAi construct presented the most drastic effect, resulting in plants with severe phenotypes, including leaf size (Fig. 1c). For this reason, a representative Ri5 line was used for subsequent analysis. Quantitative analyses of these results are summarized in Fig. 2a, b. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  To confirm the downregulation of AtGRP5 gene in the transgenic plants, AtGRP5 mRNA levels were accessed in Ri5 by qPCR (Fig. 3a). The AtGRP5 expression was reduced to 30% in RNAi lines compared to C24 control plants. [[FIGURE]]  The recent release of a Salk T-DNA line with insertion in the 5′ UTR of AtGRP5 allowed us to confirm the results obtained with the knock-down transgenics. The SALK_000945 lines were genotyped and plants with homozygous insertion were selected (grp5-1). Plants homozygous for the insertion present the same phenotypes observed in the knock-down transgenic lines (Fig. 4a–c). In order to confirm the reduction of AtGRP5 expression in the T-DNA insertion mutant, the plants were submitted to qPCR analysis (Fig. 3a). Compared with the Col-0 control, AtGRP5 expression in these plants was reduced to almost undetectable levels, indicating that SALK_000945 is an effective knockout mutant. [[FIGURE]]  In order to further evaluate the role of AtGRP5 in plants we generated transgenic Arabidopsis that constitutively express AtGRP5 under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter (S5 lines). Of the 27 analyzed lines containing this construct, 24 showed phenotypic alterations (data not shown). The analysis of these lines indicated that the expression of the sense construct led to opposite phenotypes of those obtained with the knock-down transgenic plants. The S5 transgenic lines presented an increase in root (Fig. 1a) and inflorescence axis length (Fig. 1b) as well as in leaf size (Fig. 1c). The quantitative analyses of these phenotypes are summarized in Fig. 2a and b. Northern blot analysis was performed confirming that AtGRP5 steady-state mRNA levels were higher in S5 lines when compared to the C24 wild-type (Fig. 3b). In order to confirm that the inflorescence axis elongation phenotype observed in the AtGRP5 transgenic plants and the grp5-1 mutant is due to cell elongation defects and not to flowering time perturbation, the numbers of leaves during vegetative stage/reproductive stage transition were measured. Indeed, all plants flowered at the same time based on leaf number. In the C24 background, both wild-type and transgenic plants developed approximately 11 leaves before flowering. The transition occurred between 37 and 44 days after germination (Fig. 5a). In the Col background, both wild-type and grp5-1 developed approximately 10 leaves before flowering. As observed in the C24 background, the transition also occurred between 37 and 44 days after germination (Fig. 5b). [[FIGURE]]  In order to characterize inflorescence architecture in the transgenic lines with reduced expression of AtGRP5 and grp5-1 mutant, inflorescences were analyzed. No clusters of cauline leaves and/or flowers/siliques were observed in the mutant or in the transgenic lines (Fig. 5c), indicating that internodal elongation was not severely affected in those plants. The elongation defects presented by transgenic lines with reduced expression of AtGRP5 and grp5-1 mutant could be explained by an elongation rate defect and/or a cell division impairment. The possibility that minor to moderate effects in internodal elongation could also be accounted for the inflorescence phenotype cannot be discarded. More detailed analysis should be perform in order to clarify if the final cell length is affected in this organ. Based on this analysis, we concluded that the differences observed in the inflorescence axes length in the various transgenic plants and grp5-1, compared to wild-type, are due to elongation defects and not to severe internodal elongation and/or flowering time. In order to elucidate the sub-cellular localization of AtGRP5 in vivo, AtGRP5 cDNA was fused in-frame at its C-terminal end with the GFP marker gene. AtGRP5-GFP fusion protein was expressed under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter in Arabidopsis plants and tobacco BY2 cells. The sub-cellular localization of AtGRP5-GFP was determined by imaging GFP fluorescence using a confocal laser scanning microscope. A control construct containing unfused GFP gene was also used. In plant cells, free GFP is known to be localized in cytosol and nucleus (Fig. 6a, b). Expression of the fusion protein resulted in a GFP-specific green fluorescence in the vacuole of BY2 cells (Fig. 6c) as well as in root cells of Arabidopsis seedlings (Fig. 6d). To the best of our knowledge, this is the first plant GRP to be localized in the vacuolar compartment. [[FIGURE]]  As expected for plants overexpressing AtGRP5, AtGRP5-GFP plants also presented longer roots and inflorescence axes as well as bigger leaves (data not shown), indicating that the AtGRP5 protein produced from AtGRP5-GFP construct is functional. AtGRP5 is composed of an N-terminal region containing a predicted signal peptide (consisting of 22 amino acids) followed by a non-glycine-rich region (consisting of 21 amino acids) and at its C-terminus, a glycine-rich region is present (consisting of 131 amino acids), without any other obvious motifs. We wondered if this non-glycine-rich N-terminus containing a predicted signal peptide was sufficient to target this protein to the vacuole, or, as observed for many vacuolar proteins, the vacuolar localization signal also needs sequences determinants located at the C-terminal end of the protein (Bethke and Jones CITATION). To analyze this hypothesis, a construct containing the AtGRP5 N-terminal region (consisting of 43 amino acids) was fused translationally to the GFP gene (Nt-GFP) under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. This construct was used to transform Arabidopsis and tobacco BY2 cells. Confocal analysis of the transgenic Arabidopsis seedlings and BY2 cells indicates that the expression of GFP fused to the AtGRP5 N-terminus also results in a GFP-specific green fluorescence in the vacuole (Fig. 6e, f), suggesting that N-terminus itself is sufficient to target proteins to this sub-cellular compartment. In order to obtain more information about orthologs and homologs, searches in the rice and Arabidopsis genomes were performed. It was previously observed for different gene families that the vacuolar sorting signal of vacuolar proteins can be found as extensions that are absent in the secreted forms of proteins of the same family (Matusouka and Nakamura CITATION; Neuhaus et al. CITATION; Nakamura and Matsuoka CITATION; Carter et al. CITATION). Therefore, a search for AtGRP5 homologs presenting or not the non-glycine-rich region following the signal peptide was performed. In Arabidopsis, 57 Class I GRP genes were identified. All of them presented a signal peptide and among them, 41 presented a non-glycine-rich region following the signal peptide, as observed in AtGRP5. Of those 57 genes, 4 presented homology with AtGRP5 (At2g32690, At4g01985, At4g29020, At5g46730). An analysis of those sequences with various localization prediction programs was performed (Supplemental Table 1). According to these analyses, At4g01985 and At5g46730 might be secreted proteins. At4g01985 presented a non-glycine-rich region following the signal peptide; however, no similarities were found with the AtGRP5 sequence. At5g46730 presented only a signal peptide followed by a glycine-rich domain, as expected for secreted forms. At2g32690 localizations prediction was not conclusive. It was predicted to be localized in the chloroplast by WoLF PSORT, even though ChloroP prediction program (Emanuelsson et al. CITATION) could not identify the chloroplast targeting sequence. It presents a non-glycine-rich region following the signal peptide that is longer than that observed in AtGRP5 and no similarities were found. Finally, At4g29020 was predicted to be in the vacuole. This particular GRP presented high similarity and identity in the non-glycine-rich region following the signal peptide with AtGRP5 corresponding sequece. In fact, a consensus sequence of G-L-D/E-D-Q-K–N/T-F was observed in these two Arabidopsis homologs (Supplemental Fig. 1a). In addition, At4g29020 is highly similar to AtGRP5 throughout the protein sequence (Supplemental Fig. 1b). This indicates that At4g29020 is probably an AtGRP5 homolog and its potential redundant partner. In rice, six genes present homology to AtGRP5. All of them, present predicted signal peptide sequences (Supplemental Table 1). According to localization prediction programs, two sequences (Os03g19600 and Os07g48910) present only a signal peptide followed by a glycine-rich domain. These two genes are good candidates to encode secreted forms of GRPs in rice. Four other proteins (Os01g08530, Os07g25810, Os07g32680, Os07g32710) are predicted to be localized to the vacuole. Os07g32680 and Os07g32710 present a glycine-rich region following the signal peptide, but with different types of repeats as that the observed in their C-terminal glycine-rich domain. Os01g08530 presents a non-glycine-rich region following the signal peptide. However, no similarities with AtGRP5 non-glycine-rich region were observed. Finally, Os07g25810 presents a non-glycine-rich region similar to the AtGRP5 region (Supplemental Fig. 1a). Os07g25810 is a good candidate for being the AtGRP5 ortholog in rice. In the analysis of eucalyptus transcriptome, two GRPs presenting homology to AtGRP5 were found (Bocca et al. CITATION). The analysis of those sequences indicates that none of them present a signal peptide sequence (Supplemental Table 1), suggesting that they probably encode intercellular proteins. In the sugarcane transcriptome analysis (Fusaro et al. CITATION), nine sequences presenting homology to AtGRP5 were identified. Unfortunately, only one of those sequences presented a complete 5′ region. According to WoLF PSORT localization prediction program (Horton et al. CITATION), this protein (SCCCLB1003D10) might be localized in the vacuole or extracellularly (Supplemental Table 1). This sequence encodes a protein that contains a signal peptide followed by a non-glycine-rich region as observed in AtGRP5. This region presents similarities with AtGRP5 and rice Os07g25810 (Supplemental Fig. 1a). A consensus sequence of A-A-A/G-D/E-E-K–F/S-L-W-L-K–K is observed in the two monocot GRPs. This GRP is a good candidate for being the AtGRP5 ortholog in sugarcane. In plants, organ size defects can be caused by increased or reduced number of cells or by perturbation in cell elongation. In fact, most of the growth of a plant is due to cell elongation and the vacuole plays a very important role in this process (Dolan and Davies CITATION; Becker CITATION). Based on the localization of AtGRP5-GFP fusion protein and the phenotypes obtained with the transgenic lines with reduced or enhanced expression of the AtGRP5 gene, one would speculate that cell elongation processes might be disturbed in those plants. In order to investigate the cause of length defects on AtGRP5 transgenic lines, root cells were analyzed in detail. The root system was chosen for this analysis because of the simplicity of its organization and its transparency. The difference in cell size between the transgenic lines and wild-type was evident. The Ri5 line root cells are smaller when compared to wild-type, while the S5 line cells are bigger (Fig. 7a). Additionally, the cells of AtGRP5-GFP plants are bigger than the cells of Nt-GFP or free GFP plants (compare Fig. 6d with 6b, f). However, the confocal analysis of those cells indicated that the overexpression of AtGRP5 caused by AtGRP5-GFP fusion does not cause any visible vacuolar morphological defects (Fig. 6d). [[FIGURE]]  To evaluate cell elongation in the absence of cell division, we performed an analysis of hypocotyl elongation in dark-grown plants. In the dark, wild-type seedlings follow the skotomorphogenetic developmental program, which results in hypocotyl cell elongation (McNellis et al. CITATION). Hormones such as auxin, gibberellin and brassinosteroids are known to promote cell elongation on hypocotyls under skotomorphogenesis (Collet et al. CITATION; Mokaitis and Estelle CITATION). AtGRP5 knockout plants (grp5-1) presented reduced hypocotyl length when compared to Col-0 wild-type plants (Fig. 7b, c). These results indicate that knockout plants present perturbed cell elongation that could account for the phenotypes observed in AtGRP5 transgenic lines. Whether these hypocotyl elongation defects can be rescued by exogenous application of hormones and whether AtGRP5 is modulated by these hormones are still to be tested.
!~MM~! For the AtGRP5-GFP construct, the entire AtGRP5 coding region was amplified by PCR, using as forward primer 5′TCTAGAGGATCCATGGCTTCCAAGTCACTC3′ and 5′AAGCTTCCATGGCATGATGTCCACCACCGAAAC3′ as the reverse primer. The PCR product was digested and cloned into the pPK100 vector using the NcoI site. The resulting plasmids were sequenced to confirm the absence of PCR-derived mutagenesis. The fusion of the AtGRP5 signal peptide to GFP was cloned using the same strategy, using 5′TCTAGAGGATCCATGGCTTCCAAGTCACTC3′ as the forward primer and 5′AAGCTTCCATGGCGTCTGGATGGTGGAAG3′ as the reverse primer. Both constructs were transferred as a HindIII fragment to the T-DNA binary vector pDE1001 (Plant Genetic Systems, Gent, Belgium). In order to obtain the unfused GFP as a control, the GFP expression cassette from the pPK100 was also transferred to the pDE1001 using the same strategy. The three final constructs were introduced into the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strains C58C1 (pMP90) and LBA 4404 (pBBR1MCS-5::virGN54D) (van der Fits et al. CITATION) for Arabidopsis and tobacco BY-2 cells transformation, respectively. The AtGRP5 cDNA (de Oliveira et al. CITATION) was digested with NcoI and BamHI and cloned to the pDE110 vector (Plant Genetic Systems). This strategy introduces the AtGRP5 cDNA in an antisense orientation, under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter (A5 construct). To generate the antisense expression vector under the control of the AtGRP5 promoter (A*5 construct), the pAtGRP5 (Sachetto-Martins et al. CITATION) was isolated as a BamHI-NcoI fragment and cloned to the pGEM2 vector (Promega, Madison, WI, USA), resulting in the pAM3 vector. The AtGRP5 cDNA, in the antisense orientation, fused to the 3′ NOS terminator sequence, was isolated from the A5 construct and cloned to the pAM3 plasmid as an NcoI-XbaI fragment. Both antisense cassettes were transferred to the binary vector pDE1001 (Plant Genetic Systems) as an EcoRI-XbaI fragment. In order to clone the AtGRP5 gene under the control of the 35S promoter in a sense orientation (S5 construct), its cDNA clone (de Oliveira et al. CITATION) was digested and cloned to the pDE110 vector as a NcoI-BamHI fragment. The resulting construct was transferred to the binary vector pDE1001 (Plant Genetic Systems) as an EcoRI–HindIII fragment. RNAi construct was made using the Gateway strategy (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA). The AtGRP5 was amplified by PCR using primers 5′GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAACGAGGCTTCACAATGGCTTCCAAGTCACTC3′ and 5′GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTTCAATGATGTCCACCACCG3′ and cloned by BP recombination in the pDONR201 vector (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The entry clone obtained was directly used for recombination with the destination T-DNA binary vector pK7GWIWG2 (Karimi et al. CITATION), resulting in the Ri5 construct, in which the AtGRP5 sequence was cloned in opposite orientations separated by an intron. The four final constructs were introduced into the A. tumefaciens strain C58C1 (pMP90) and used for Arabidopsis transformation.  Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype C24, Lehle Seeds, Round Rock, TX, USA) transformation was conducted by the A. tumefaciens-mediated floral dip transformation described by Clough and Bent (CITATION). The plants were grown in growth chamber at 22°C under a 16-h light cycle. BY-2 cells (Nicotiana tabacum L. cv. Bright Yellow 2, kindly provided by Dr. M. Karimi, Gent University, Belgium) were transformed with the GFP constructs via A. tumefaciens according to the method of Nagata et al. (CITATION). The cells were subcultured at 25°C in the dark with an orbital shaker (G24 Environmental Incubator Shaker, New Brunswick Scientific Co., Inc., Edison, NJ, USA). For the root growth analysis, the seeds were decontaminated with 70% ethanol for 2 min and then, 5% hypochlorite plus 0.05% Tween 20 for 15 min. After being washed in sterile water, the seeds were stratified in liquid germination media (GM) (Valvekens et al. CITATION) and stored in the dark at 4°C for 7 days. The plants were germinated in GM during the next 7 days. After being transferred to a fresh GM plate the plants were displayed in a vertical position for another 7 days and the root length was measured. The plants were grown in a growth chamber at 22°C under a 16-h light cycle. For the cell length analysis, images from 2-week-old roots were obtained under a compound microscope and the length of the mature cortical cells was measured using the software Image Pro Plus from Media Cybernetics (Bethesda, MD, USA). For inflorescence axis elongation analysis, 2-week-old plants were transferred to soil at 22°C under a 16-h light cycle and the inflorescence axis length was measured after 5 weeks in soil. For the analysis of hypocotyl elongation, seedlings were germinated and grown in the dark for 4 days before the hypocotyls were measured. In order to avoid GFP degradation in the vacuole lumen (Tamura et al. CITATION), for confocal analysis of GFP expressing plants, overnight incubation in the dark was performed immediately prior to the image obtaintion. RNA extraction and Northern blot analysis were performed according to Fusaro et al. (CITATION) using the AtGRP5 cDNA fragment as a probe. The grp5-1 T-DNA mutant, SALK_000945, was isolated from the Salk Institute Genomic Analysis Laboratory collection (Alonso et al. CITATION). Homozygous mutants were isolated by PCR-based genotyping using gene specific PCR primers; G5 LP 5′CCACCGAAACCACCACCAATA3′ and G5 RP 5′ TGGTGGACACCAAAATGTACT3′ were used together with LBa1 5′TGGTTCACGTAGTGGGCCATCG3′. Real-time PCR experiments were carried out on cDNAs synthesized from Trizol (Invitrogen) purified total RNA. The cDNAs were obtained by using the Superscript TM II system (Invitrogen) and a 23-polyT-V primer, for 1 h at 40°C. Subsequent PCR amplifications were performed using specific primers for AtGRP5. Primer pairs 5′TGGGAAACCCATTTATCACTTCATG and 5′CAGCAAGTCCAACAGTGCCAAG were used to amplify the housekeeping gene of the glutathione-dependent formaldehyde dehydrogenase-alcohol dehydrogenase (At5g43940). Quantitative PCR amplification of this gene was used as the internal control to normalize the amount of mRNA present in each sample (Braz et al. CITATION). Primers were designed to produce DNA fragments ranging from 140 to 221 bp. Comparative quantifications of amplified products were made by the 2−ΔΔCt method (Livak and Schmittgen CITATION) using an Applied Biosystems 7500 Real-time PCR system. Observation of BY2 cells and Arabidopsis roots expressing GFP fusion proteins were performed using a ZEISS LSM510 confocal laser scanning microscope (Karl Zeiss Inc., Thornwood, NY, USA) equipped with an argon–krypton laser. Samples were examined with a plane Neofluar 40× objective lens (NA 0.75; Zeiss Corp.). Excitation/emission wavelengths were: excitation 488 nm/emission BP 505–530 nm for GFP. Images were assembled using the Adobe Photoshop program (Adobe Systems, Mountain View, CA, USA). The phenotypic parameters were analyzed according to the Student test (t test) for comparison between arithmetic means of samples in which the variances are different. The probability of random events was 95% and only values of P < 0.05 were considered. The identification of Class I GRPs and AtGRP5-related genes in Arabidopsis and rice genomes were performed according to Fusaro et al. (CITATION) and Bocca et al. (CITATION). Localization prediction analyses were perfomed using the programs iPSORT (Bannai et al. CITATION) (http://hc.ims.u-tokyo.ac.jp/iPSORT/), ChloroP (Emanuelsson et al. CITATION) (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/ChloroP), MitoProt (Claros and Vincens CITATION) (http://ihg.gsf.de/ihg/mitoprot.html), TargetP (Emanuelsson et al. CITATION) (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/), Predotar (Small et al. CITATION) (http://urgi.versailles.inra.fr/tools/predotar/) and WoLF PSORT (Horton et al. CITATION) (http://wolfpsort.seq.cbrc.jp/).
