!~ABS~! Chloroplast biogenesis is a complex process in higher plants. Screening chloroplast biogenesis mutants, and elucidating their molecular mechanisms, will provide insight into the process of chloroplast biogenesis. In this paper, we obtained an early chloroplast biogenesis mutant atecb2 that displayed albino cotyledons and was seedling lethal. Microscopy observations revealed that the chloroplast of atecb2 mutants lacked an organized thylakoid membrane. The AtECB2 gene, which is highly expressed in cotyledons and seedlings, encodes a pentatricopeptide repeat protein (PPR) with a C-terminal DYW domain. The AtECB2 protein is localized in the chloroplast, and contains a conserved HxExnCxxC motif that is similar to the activated site of cytidine deaminase. The AtECB2 mutation affects the expression pattern of plastid-encoded genes. Immunoblot analyses showed that the levels of photosynthetic proteins decreased substantially in atecb2 mutants. Inspection of all reported plastid RNA editing sites revealed that one editing site, accD, is not edited in atecb2 mutants. Therefore, the AtECB2 protein must regulate the RNA editing of this site, and the dysfunctional AccD protein from the unedited RNA molecules could lead to the mutated phenotype. All of these results indicate that AtECB2 is required for chloroplast transcript accD RNA editing and early chloroplast biogenesis in Arabidopsis thaliana.
!~RES~! To identify candidate genes essential for early chloroplast biogenesis, we obtained the knock-out transgenic lines for 34 genes, the products of which are chloroplast targeted and are highly expressed in early-stage seedlings. One T-DNA insertion line (SALK_112251) of the gene AT1G15510, designated atecb2, displayed a low accumulation of photosynthetic pigments, and thus it was further investigated in detail. The atecb2 mutant showed an albino cotyledon without a primary leaf, and only survived for roughly 1 week when grown in a plant nutrient solution (PNS) medium (CITATION; Figure 1a,b). Therefore, it was unable to grow photoautotrophically, and was seedling lethal under autotrophic growth conditions. When supplemented with sucrose as a carbon source, the atecb2 mutant was able to produce only two albino primary leaves before it stopped growing (Figure 1c,d). Neither viability nor pigmentation of this mutant was restored under low-light growing conditions (60 μmol m−2 s−1; data not shown). Thus, this phenotype is not caused by photo-oxidative stress. [[FIGURE]] We quantified the levels of chlorophyll a and b in both the mutant and the wild type. The total chlorophyll content of atecb2 mutants (110.7 ± 10.7 μg g−1 fresh weight for the atecb2 mutant type) was lower than that of the wild type (691.63 ± 4.3 μg g−1 fresh weight for the wild type). The photosynthetic activity of atecb2 mutants was also investigated. We analyzed the Fv/Fm = (Fm – F0)/Fm value, which is an indicator of photo-inhibition (F0 and Fm are the minimal and maximal chlorophyll a fluorescence of dark-adapted leaves, respectively; Fv indicates the maximum variable fluorescence CITATION). The Fv/Fm of the 14-day-old wild type was determined to be 0.81 ± 0.01 (n = 3), but the value could not be calculated in atecb2 mutants. The results indicated that photosynthetic activity was seriously damaged in atecb2 mutants. As the atecb2 mutant showed an albino phenotype, we compared its chloroplast morphology and ultrastructure with that of the wild type by transmission electron microscopy (TEM). In the mature chloroplasts of the 14-day-old wild type, an organized thylakoid membrane was observed. The stroma thylakoid and grana thylakoid were distinguished in chloroplasts of the wild type (Figure 2a). Additionally, the chloroplast contained starch grains. Conversely, chloroplasts in atecb2 leaves were smaller than those in the wild type, and no organized thylakoid membranes were observed, except for a few short appressed internal membranes. Moreover, the plastids observed in atecb2 mutants did not contain starch grains (Figure 2b). These features indicate that the organelle was arrested at an early stage of chloroplast biogenesis. [[FIGURE]] Our genetic analysis showed that the albino phenotype of the atecb2 mutants was controlled by a recessive nuclear gene, and co-segregated with the kanamycin resistance marker (data not shown). The sequencing of the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) fragments showed that the T-DNA was inserted downstream of the 489th base pair (bp) from the start codon of the gene AT1G15510 (Figure 3a,b). Reverse-transcriptase PCR (RT-PCR) results indicated that the transcript of the gene was absent in atecb2 mutants, but present in the wild type (Figure 3c). All of these results showed that AT1G15510 was a candidate gene for AtECB2. [[FIGURE]] To further confirm that the AtECB2 gene was AT1G15510, we performed a complement test with a genomic sequence. A 4876-bp wild-type genomic sequence, containing the AT1G15510 gene as well as its 1936-bp upstream and 339-bp downstream sequences, was introduced into the normal phenotype offspring from AtECB2/atecb2 heterozygotes via an Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation (CITATION). Then, 99 T1 transgenic plants were screened out. Among them, five plants that were AtECB2/atecb2 heterozygotes were obtained. The segregate rates of their offspring were far from 3:1 (green plants:albino plants; Table S1). Furthermore, we determined the genotype of these offspring, as described in the Experimental procedures, and obtained more than 10 atecb2/atecb2 homozygous plants from the sixth T1 transgenic lines that carried the fragments of the exogenous genomic sequence. These plants displayed green cotyledons and leaves after their germination (Figure 1e,f). RT-PCR analysis also showed that the transcripts of AT1G15510 were present in these plants (Figure 3c). Furthermore, TEM observations for these plants showed that the chloroplasts had similar ultrastructure to the wild-type plants (Figure 2c). These results indicate that the 4876-bp genomic fragments can successfully complement the mutated phenotype, and that the AtECB2 gene was AT1G15510. BLAST searches of the complete Arabidopsis genomic sequence revealed that only one copy of the AtECB2 gene was present in the nuclear genome. To obtain the full-length AtECB2 cDNA sequence, we exploited the rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE), which resulted in the identification of the complete cDNA sequence. Sequence analysis indicated that the gene is not interrupted by introns, and it contains a 30-bp 5′-untranslated region (UTR), a 195-bp 3′-UTR and the entire coding sequence consistent with that in the Arabidopsis information resource database (TAIR) (Figure S1). The AtECB2 gene encodes a putative polypeptide of 866 amino acids, with a calculated molecular weight of 97.7 kDa. The protein is a member of the PPR family, and contains eleven characteristic PPR motifs, which can predictably form into a pair of antiparallel α-helices (Figure 4b). Besides these PPR motifs, this protein contains three extra conserved motifs E, E+ and DYW in the C terminal (Figure 4c). Thus, AtECB2 belongs to the DYW group of the PLS subfamily, as proposed by CITATION. Moreover, AtECB2 contains an unknown motif consisting of 15 amino acids (xGCSxI/VEExI/VExxGxV/IHxF), which is highly conserved in some PPR proteins, including CRR2, CLB19, CRR4, CRR21, YS1, CRR22 and CRR28. Importantly, this protein contains another conserved motif HxExnCxxC that is similar to the activated site of cytidine deaminases. This motif was also observed in the other four DYW proteins. The AtECB2 homologous proteins are conserved in grape, rice and maize (Figure 4a), and were very similar to the Vitis vinifera protein CAO46020 (81% similarity), the Zea maize protein AZM5_26406 (81% similarity) and the Oryza sativa protein Os05g0574800 (71% similarity). [[FIGURE]] The TargetP (CITATION) and Predotar (CITATION) programs predicted that the AtECB2 protein is targeted to the chloroplast, and that its 52-amino-acid N-terminal region is likely to be a transit peptide. To confirm its subcellular localization, an AtECB2 N-terminal transit peptide fused with GFP driven by the CaMV 35S promoter was introduced into the wild-type plants. Stable transgenic plants were then examined with confocal laser microscopy, and the GFP fusion protein with the AtECB2 N-terminal transit peptides was co-localized with chloroplast autofluorescence (Figure 5g–i). With just the control vector, GFP fluorescence accumulated in the cytoplasm (Figure 5d–f), whereas no signals were found in the wild type (Figure 5a–c). Therefore, it appears that the 52-amino-acid sequence of the AtECB2 N-terminal region functions as a transit peptide, and AtECB2 is localized in the chloroplast. [[FIGURE]] Expression data from Genvestigator showed that AtECB2 was widely expressed in Arabidopsis, but the highest expressional level was observed in seedlings (CITATION; http://www.genevestigator.com). RT-PCR analysis revealed that the expression abundance of the AtECB2 gene was highest in 14-day-old seedlings, compared with that in other tissues (Figure 6a). A quantitative real-time RT-PCR analysis confirmed this expression pattern of the gene, which is in accordance with that in the microarray data (Figure 6b). [[FIGURE]] The expression pattern of AtECB2 in Arabidopsis was further investigated using a β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene fused to its promoter construct (Figure 6c–i). According to the observed pattern, AtECB2 was expressed very early, in germinating seeds (Figure 6c). In 3-day-old seedlings, GUS staining was primarily detected in the emerging cotyledons, as well as in the hypocotyls, with faint staining in the root (Figure 6d). In 14-day-old seedlings, GUS activity was detected in most of the plant, and was particularly strong in cotyledons (Figure 6f). GUS staining was also observed in the stem and silique, but not in the matured seeds (Figure 6e,h and i). Within the flower, GUS staining was intense in the sepals, the stamens and styles, but not in the petals (Figure 6g). GUS staining for transgenic lines showed that AtECB2 was widely expressed throughout the plant, and that higher expression levels were found in the cotyledon and in the seedling. Altogether, these findings show that AtECB2 was highly expressed in cotyledons and seedlings, which was in agreement with its putative roles in chloroplast biogenesis. Inspection of the DYW domain sequences from various plants (CITATION) and early-diverging bryophytes (CITATION) indicated that the domain was highly correlated with RNA editing. More recently, genetic evidence indicating that the DYW subgroup and RNA editing events are correlated have emerged (CITATION; CITATION; and CITATION). Therefore, we systematically checked the 34 editing sites that have been published (CITATION; CITATION) in atecb2 mutants, by the direct sequencing of the RT-PCR products containing these sites. Of these published RNA editing sites, 33 sites were edited correctly in atecb2 mutants to be the same as those in the wild type grown under the same growth conditions. One editing site event, accD, did not occur, as shown in Figure 7a. To confirm the results, the PCR fragment containing the editing site from the wild-type or atecb2 cDNA was subjected to digestion of the restricted enzyme, EcoRI. The results showed that most of the RNA molecules were edited, whereas the edited molecules were hardly detected in atecb2 mutants (Figure 7b). We also evaluated the editing rates of the accD site in the wild type, complementary lines and atecb2 mutants. Our results showed that the rates in the wild type, and in the complementary lines, were 89.5% and 86.2%, respectively, under our culture conditions. In contrast, no molecules were edited in atecb2 mutants (Figure 7c), which suggested that the editing event was abolished in the mutant. Editing of codon 265 in wild-type accD transcripts encoding the β-subunit of carboxyltransferase (CT), the component of acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACCase), resulted in a Leu→Ser residue change that was not detected in the mutant. The site was edited in the wild-type and the complemented plant under the same conditions (Figure 7). Therefore, we concluded that AtECB2 regulated the RNA editing of the site. Alignment analysis for the protein among the various species showed that leucine or similar amino acids were also conserved at the same position in the organisms (CITATION). Thus, the non-editing of the site in atecb2 mutants might affect the functions of the protein. [[FIGURE]] The expression of chloroplast-encoded genes is tightly linked with chloroplast developmental status, and their expression is carried out by two RNA polymerases of different origins: plastid-encoded polymerase (PEP) and nuclear-encoded polymerase (NEP). To investigate the effects of atecb2 mutation on these transcription processes, we compared the transcript profiles of various chloroplast-encoded genes between 10-day-old wild-type plants and atecb2 mutants (Figure 8). The five genes PsaB, PsbA, PsbB, PetD and RbcL, were selected as PEP-dependent genes (class I). AccD, Ycf2 and RpoA were chosen as NEP-dependent genes (class III). The four genes Rrn16, Rrn23, AtpB and AtpE were selected as both PEP- and NEP-dependent genes (class II) (CITATION; CITATION). Our results showed that the transcripts of class-I genes displayed 10–60% of the levels of mRNA produced by the wild-type transcripts. In contrast, the expression levels of class-III genes were higher in the mutant than in the wild type. Among the class-II genes, the expression levels of the two genes, Rrn16 and Rrn23, were about 20.72 and 16.79%, respectively, whereas the transcripts of the remaining two genes were about two and four times as high as those in the wild type. These results indicate that the expression of the plastid genes in Arabidopsis is affected by the atecb2 mutation. [[FIGURE]] As the mutation affects chloroplast ultrastructure, we examined the accumulation of photosynthetic proteins in the mutant. The levels of the following photosynthetic proteins were examined by immunoblot assay in both the wild type and the atecb2 mutants (Figure 9): the large subunit of soluble rubisco proteins, RbcL (CITATION); photosystem-I subunits, PsaD (CITATION) and PsaF (CITATION); photosystem-II subunits, PsbA (CITATION) and OEC33 (a product of the PsbO gene) (CITATION); the cytb6f subunit, PetC (CITATION); and the AtpB subunit (CITATION). The photosynthetic proteins, including PsaD, PsaF, PsbA, RbcL and PetC were not detected in atecb2 mutants. The level of the AtpB subunit was reduced in atecb2 mutants compared with that of the wild type. Meanwhile, the level of OEC33, an extrinsic protein, was similar to that of the wild type. This indicated that the accumulation of most photosynthetic proteins was affected in atecb2 mutants, which is probably the consequence of defective chloroplast biogenesis. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Wild-type A. thaliana (ecotype Columbia) and mutants were grown under long-day conditions (16-h light/8-h dark), with a photon flux density of 120 μmol m−2 s−1 at a constant temperature of 22°C. For growth on agar plates, seeds were surface-sterilized and sown on a PNS medium containing 2% sucrose and 0.7% (w/v) phytoagar. To identify novel genes essential for chloroplast biogenesis at an early stage, genes highly or specifically expressed in early-stage seedlings were selected based on the gene expression information from the Genevestigator website (CITATION; http://www.genevestigator.com). A total of 34 genes, the products of which were thought to be chloroplast targeted, were identified (data not shown). Then phenotype screening was performed for these gene T-DNA insertional lines, which were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC; http://www.biosci.ohio-state.edu/pcmb/Facilities/abrc/abrchome.htm). The atecb2 mutant (SALK_112251) is one of the lines. To determine the positions of T-DNA insertions for atecb2 mutants, genomic DNA for PCR was prepared as described by CITATION. The flanking regions of the T-DNA insertions was amplified by PCR and sequenced with these primers: T-DNA flanking sequence, Lba1, 5′-TGGTTCACGTAGTGGGCCATCG-3′, and left primer, LP, 5′-CTCGTCTGGCTTCACAGAATC-3′; right primer, RP, 5′-GGAATTTTGGAATTCGGAGAC-3′. The wild-type line produced a PCR product of about 1000 bp (from LP to RP). The atecb2 mutant produced a band of about 600 bp (from RP to Lba1). Heterozygous lines produce both of the two bands. Transmission electron micrographs were obtained exactly as described by CITATION. Small segments of the first primary leaf were from 14-day-old plants grown on a PNS medium supplement with 2% sucrose under normal conditions. The specimens were examined with a Hitachi H7500 transmission electron microscope (Hitachi, http://www.hitachi.com). Total chlorophyll was determined according to the method described by CITATION. Extracts were obtained from 50 mg of fresh tissue from 14-day-old Arabidopsis seedlings, and were then homogenized in 100 mL of 100% acetone. Spectrophotometric quantification was carried out in a 721 spectrophotometer (Shanghai Third Analysis Instrument Factory). Chlorophyll-fluorescence measurements were performed using a pulse amplitude-modulated fluorometer (PAM 101; Walz, http://www.walz.com) equipped with a data acquisition system to record fast changes (CITATION). The 4876-bp wild-type AT1G15510 genomic fragment was amplified using LA-Taq polymerase (Takara, http://www.takara-bio.com) and the gene-specific primers: PPRGF, 5′-CGGGATCCTTCAGTTCTCTTCTGGGGATTTGCCAACCAG-3′, and PPRGR, 5′-GG CTGCAGGCTCTTTGCCGTTATCTTTGCTATCGGAATC-3′. After verification by sequencing, the fragment was cloned into a pCAMBIA1300 binary vector (CAMBIA; http://www.cambia.org.au). The transgenic lines for hygromycin resistance were further analyzed for their genomic background. Another primer set (HBLP, 5′-AGTATGCCTGTGTGGTGGGAATG-3′; HB3, 5′-CAGGAGTAATATTTTGATAGTG-3′) was used to identify the homozygous background for the T-DNA insertion site of AtECB2. The HB3 primer was located 300-bp downstream of the complementary fragment. No bands were amplified in the transgenic lines that had a homozygous background for the T-DNA insertion site of AtECB2, when the primer set was used. Three independent PCR reactions were repeated to confirm the homozygous background. At the same time, another PCR reaction with PPRGF and PPRGR primers was performed to monitor the quality of the DNA templates. To make the AtECB2TP:GFP construct, the transpeptide region was obtained by PCR amplification using two primers, AtECB2TF (5′-GGTACC ATGGCGTCTTCTGCTCAAAG-3′) and AtECB2TR (5′-CCATGG TAAGAACAGATAGTCCTTG-3′), cloned into the multiple clone sites of the vector pEGFP. The AtECB2TP:GFP fragment was cloned into a pMON530 binary vector. The 35S::GFP construct was used as a control. Both recombinant inserts were sequenced to ensure the authenticity of the transgenic fragment. The observation of GFP signals was performed as described by CITATION. The PAtECB2::GUS was made by amplifying the 1936-bp sequence upstream of the AtECB2 translation start sites using the primers AtECB2PF (5′-CGGAGCTCTTCAGTTCTCTTCTGGGGATTTGCCAACCAG-3′) and AtECB2PR (5′-CGCCATGG CGTAGGAGAGACAGAGCAAAGAACATGGTCACTCTC-3′), and subcloning the fragment into a pCAMBIA1301 binary vector. The different tissues of the transgenic lines were harvested into ice-cold 90% (v/v) acetone, incubated for 15–20 min on ice to permeabilize the tissue and then washed with a GUS assay, as described by CITATION. Tissues were examined using an Olympus SZ-CTV dissecting microscope interfaced with an Olympus DP70 digital camera (http://www.olympus.com.cn) and ACT-1 image-capture software. All binary vectors were introduced into Arabidopsis mediated by A. tumefaciens (CITATION). Transformants were selected using 80 mg L−1 hygromycin B or 50 mg L−1 kanamycin. Total RNA from different tissues was isolated using the TRIZOL Reagent (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com) and DNase I treated by an RNeasy kit (Qiagen, http://www.qiagen.com), following the manufacturer’s instructions. The first-strand cDNA was synthesized with the revert-Aid first-strand cDNA synthesis kit (TOYOBO, http://www.toyobo.co.jp/e/), following the manufacturer’s instructions. The absence of DNA was confirmed by PCR prior to reverse transcription with random hexanucleotide primers. The full-length cDNA of the AtECB2 gene was obtained by using a SMART™ RACE cDNA amplification kit (Clontech, http://www.clontech.com), following the supplier’s protocol. The two gene-specific primers, GSP1 (5′-CAGGCTTCACACCACCAACCCACAAC-3′) and GSP11 (5′-CGCGCTCTTCACATCACCACACTTC-3′) were used for 5′RACE, and the other two gene specific primers, GSP2 (5′-GGGGTCAAGGGTCGATGGTGGTAG-3′) and GSP22 (5′-GTGCGTGGTTGATTTGCTAGGCCGT-3′) were used for 3′RACE. To investigate the AtECB2 expression pattern, total RNA was isolated from roots, stems, leaves, inflorescences and 14-day-old seedlings, and semiquantitative RT-PCRs were performed using the specific primers as follows: AtECB2F (5′-ATGGCGTCTTCTGCTCAAAG-3′) and AtECB2R (5′-TAAGAACAGATAGTCCTTG-3′). The β-tubulin gene was used as a control, and the primer set was as follows: TubulinF (5′-GGACACTACACTGAAGGTGCTGAG-3′) and TubulinR (5′-CAAGCTGATGAACAGAGAGAGTTG-3′). For the expression analysis of AtECB2 in mutants, total RNA was prepared from 14-day-old mutants and wild types, and the two primers (AtECB2F and AtECB2R) were used. To analyze the transcripts of plastid genes, semiquantitative RT-PCR reactions were performed using the primers listed in Table S2. Reactions comprised 28 and 35 cycles of 1 min at 95°C, 1 min at 54°C, and 1 min at 72°C. Total RNA was extracted from 10-day-old wild-type and atecb2 plants, which were grown under a 16-h light/8-h dark regime, with a photon flux density of 120 mmol m−2 s−1, at 22°C. Quantitative real-time PCR amplifications were carried out in an ABI 7300 Real-Time PCR System (Applied Biosystems, http://www.appliedbiosystems.com), and the relative quantification of gene expression data was analyzed as described in CITATION. Primer pairs are listed in Table S2. The data set was normalized using β-tubulin as a control. Total RNA was extracted from 14-day-old plants. A total of 34 published RNA editing sites were amplified and sequenced by specific primers in CITATION and CITATION. Each PCR fragment was sequenced twice by the two specific primers. The non-editing RNA sites in the mutant were sequenced another two times using independent plant samples. The RT-PCR products containing the accD editing site with specific primers, AccDF (5′-TTCAGAAAGAATCGAGAATT-3′) and AccDR (5′-AACAGCGTCAGTCAATCCTGTAG-3′), were digested with EcoRI, and analyzed on a 2.5% agarose gel. For analysis of the editing rate of the site accD, the sequence containing the editing sites from wild-type and atecb2 plants was amplified by PCR using the primers AccD-FW (5′-TCTTCTAGTTATTCCAATAATGTTGATCTTT-3′) and AccD-RV (5′-AGAGGTAAACATTGATTGGTAGCAT-3′). The RT-PCR products were ligated into pMD18-T vectors (Takara) and transformed into E. coli. PCR products from more than 100 independent clones, using the primers AccDF and AccDR, were digested with EcoRI and analyzed on a 2.5% agarose gel. Total proteins for immunological detection were extracted from 10-day-old wild-type and atecb2 mutants, as described previously (CITATION). Proteins were separated by 12% or 15% SDS-PAGE, transferred electrophoretically to nitrocellulose filter membranes and were then immunoblotted with various antibodies. Antibodies were detected using an enhanced chemiluminescence (ECL; General Electric Company, http://www.ge.com) following the manufacturer’s instructions. All polyclonal antibodies in this study, except for RbcL, were obtained from Agrisera (http://www.agrisera.com). The RbcL antibody was presented by Dr Mi Hua-Ling from the National Key Laboratory of Plant Molecular Genetics, Institute of Plant Physiology and Ecology, at the Chinese Academy of Sciences.
