!~ABS~! To date, there have been no reports on screening for mutants defective in the massive accumulation of Rubisco in higher plants. Here, we describe a screening method based on the toxic accumulation of ammonia in the presence of methionine sulfoximine, a specific inhibitor of glutamine synthetase, during photorespiration initiated by the oxygenase reaction of Rubisco in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). Five recessive mutants with decreased amounts of Rubisco were identified and designated as nara mutants, as they contained a mutation in genes necessary for the achievement of Rubisco accumulation. The nara5-1 mutant showed markedly lower levels of plastid-encoded photosynthetic proteins, including Rubisco. Map-based cloning revealed that NARA5 encoded a chloroplast phosphofructokinase B-type carbohydrate kinase family protein of unknown function. The NARA5 protein fused to green fluorescent protein localized in chloroplasts. We conducted expression analyses of photosynthetic genes during light-induced greening of etiolated seedlings of nara5-1 and the T-DNA insertion mutant, nara5-2. Our results strongly suggest that NARA5 is indispensable for hyperexpression of photosynthetic genes encoded in the plastid genome, particularly rbcL.
!~RES~! It has been estimated that Rubisco catalyzes the oxygenase reaction in photosynthesizing Arabidopsis leaves at 13 μmol g−1 fresh weight h−1 (CITATION). This corresponds to the release of NH3 at 6.5 μmol g−1 fresh weight h−1 at the Gly decarboxylation step during photorespiration. This amount of NH3 far exceeds amounts released from other metabolic pathways in C3 plant leaves (CITATION; CITATION). Photorespiratory NH3 is mainly reassimilated by GS2 in chloroplasts (Fig. 1A ). The herbicide MSX kills plants by inhibiting the GS reaction (CITATION). Its harmful effects on plant growth result from blocking of Gln synthesis and accumulation of toxic NH3. In this screening method, the selection medium contained Gln as the sole nitrogen source; thus, the inhibitory effect of MSX on plant growth is restricted to the accumulation of photorespiratory NH3 (Fig. 1A). Accordingly, mutants with lower levels of Rubisco or strongly deactivated Rubisco in the absence of Rubisco activase are expected to survive in ambient air conditions because of their slower photorespiration rate. The wild-type plants would survive in a CO2-enriched atmosphere because photorespiration is suppressed (Fig. 1B). [[FIGURE]] The wild type and the rca mutant of Arabidopsis were grown in air supplemented with 5% CO2 at 50 μmol photons m−2 s−1 for 2 weeks. The medium contained 30 mm Gln with or without 50 μm MSX (Fig. 2A ). The plants were then transferred to ambient air and grown at 130 to 190 μmol photons m−2 s−1. The rca mutant was used as the positive control in our screening experiments. This mutant lacks Rubisco activase, which promotes carbamylation of the Rubisco active sites (CITATION; CITATION). There was no visible effect of MSX on the wild type and rca in the presence of 5% CO2 at both the low and high light intensities (Fig. 2A, left; Supplemental Fig. S1A). After wild-type plants were transferred to ambient air conditions with high light intensity, plants grown on MSX-containing medium died within 100 h (Fig. 2A, right). At low light intensity, however, the wild-type plants grown in ambient air conditions grew, although slowly (Supplemental Fig. S1B). The inhibitory effects of MSX on wild-type plants indicate that the Rubisco oxygenase reaction has a role in the observed growth inhibition. Consistent with this, the growth of the rca mutant, which has little Rubisco activity in air (CITATION), was not visibly affected by MSX. These results suggest that MSX-resistant Arabidopsis mutants screened under photorespiratory conditions have lower activities of the oxygenase reaction of Rubisco. [[FIGURE]] To examine the inhibitory effect of MSX on GS activity under these screening conditions, we measured the amount of NH4+ in plants grown in the presence of 50 μm MSX under photorespiratory conditions (Fig. 2B). In wild-type plants, the level of NH4+ was constantly low at approximately 4 μmol g−1 fresh weight in the presence of 5% CO2 at 50 μmol photons m−2 s−1. In wild-type plants, this level increased to approximately 210 μmol g−1 fresh weight at illumination levels of 130 to 190 μmol photons m−2 s−1 in ambient air, but in rca mutants grown under the same conditions, the level increased to only 30 μmol g−1 fresh weight. The rate of NH3 release from wild-type plants was 4 to 5 μmol g−1 fresh weight h−1. The absence of MSX did not cause any increase in NH3 in these experiments. Sterilized M2 seeds (approximately 20,000) of ethylmethanesulfonate (EMS)-treated Arabidopsis were germinated on agar plates to screen for mutants with lower levels of Rubisco. Seedlings were grown for 14 d under nonphotorespiratory conditions, then were grown under screening conditions for 100 to 150 h to select for mutants that survived the photorespiratory conditions (Figs. 1B and 3 ). The frequency of MSX-resistant plants was two to three per 1,000 seeds, but many failed to grow or were sterile after transplanting into soil. We collected M3 seeds of 12 MSX-resistant mutants and assessed repeatability of resistance (Fig. 3). Five of the selected mutants showed the recessive phenotype. We measured fresh weight of aerial parts, Rubisco activity, and amount of Rubisco protein in 14-d-old mutant lines. Compared with the wild type, the mutants were smaller and had lower fresh weights (Fig. 4A ). Lines 4 and 5 contained 30% and 20% of the amount of Rubisco in wild-type plants, respectively (Fig. 4B). Accumulation of Rubisco was moderately suppressed in lines 3, 7, and 10. Although rca had a lower activation state of Rubisco, this was not the case in the mutant lines selected in this study. The observed lower initial and total activities of Rubisco were due to decreased amounts of the Rubisco protein in these mutants (Fig. 4B). These mutants were designated as nara mutants. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To examine genetic dominance and genetic segregation of the mutated genes, these mutants were crossed with the wild-type Landsberg erecta. Plants of all F1 progeny showed no detectable growth phenotype, but the mutant phenotype appeared in one-third of plants of nara3 to nara5, nara7, and nara10 in F2 progeny (Table I ). This result indicates that phenotypes in these mutants are due to recessive mutations at single genetic loci. Segregation of the nara phenotype in F2 seedlings We identified genetic loci by map-based cloning of the mutations in the nara3, -5, -7, and -10 mutants. We found a T-to-C substitution at +2,047 of the At5g16180 coding sequence in nara3 (Table II ; Supplemental Fig. S2). At5g16180 encodes Chloroplast RNA Splicing1 (AtCRS1), which participates in splicing of the intron in atpF and protein translation in chloroplasts (CITATION; CITATION). This point mutation changed the codon for Gln at position 683 into a stop codon. Other mutations of this gene have been reported previously: a T-DNA insertion into the first exon of the genomic AtCrs1-1 results in an albino phenotype, and a T-DNA insertion in the sixth exon of the another allele, AtCrs1-2, results in variegated leaves (CITATION). The leaves of the nara3 mutant showed less variegation compared with those of AtCrs1-2 (Fig. 3). This nonsense mutation in the nara3 mutant suggests that deletion of the C-terminal region containing 37 amino acids of AtCRS1 (720AA) weakens the function of AtCRS1. It is likely that the decreased amounts of Rubisco in the nara3 mutant are due to inhibition of chloroplast translation. NARA mutations in Arabidopsis The nara5 mutant showed a severely impaired growth phenotype with a very low level of Rubisco. Map-based cloning showed that the genetic locus of NARA5 was in a 120-kb-long genomic sequence located between two polymorphic markers on the two bacterial artificial chromosome clones, M4I22 and T27E11, on chromosome IV. Sequencing of genes with annotations and plastid-leading sequences in this region revealed a G-to-A substitution at +626 of the At4g27600 coding sequence (Fig. 5A ; Supplemental Fig. S2). This substitution changes Gly at the 209th residue to Glu (Fig. 5, A and B). We introduced the full-length cDNA of At4g27600 under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter into the nara5 mutant. This resulted in complete recoveries in appearance and Rubisco content to those of the wild type (Fig. 6, A and C ). Thus, we concluded that the phenotype observed in the nara5 mutant was due to the point mutation in At4g27600. At4g27600 encodes a 471-amino acid pfkB-type carbohydrate kinase family protein with unknown function, as described later. This newly found protein was named NARA5. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Map-based cloning of the nara7 mutant identified a G-to-A substitution at +1,156 of the At2g13360 coding sequence (Table II). At2g13360 encodes alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase1 (AGT1), which catalyzes the aminotransferase reaction between Ser and glyoxylate in the photorespiratory pathway (Fig. 1A). Growth inhibition of the nara7 mutant was completely removed by 0.3% CO2, as observed previously in an AGT1-deficient mutant (CITATION; CITATION). The mutation in At2g13360 caused AtAGT1 to have Thr in place of a highly conserved Ala at the 386th residue. The similar severe phenotypes of the nara7 mutant and AGT1-deficient mutants (Supplemental Fig. S3) suggest that Ala-386 has a pervasive influence on AGT1 activity. The nara10 mutant had a C-to-T point mutation at +929 in At5g64050, which encodes glutamyl-tRNA synthetase (GluRS; Table II). This mutation substituted Phe for Ser at the 310th residue, which is highly conserved among GluRS enzymes of other organisms. The GluRS is essential for protein synthesis in both chloroplasts and mitochondria and for chlorophyll synthesis in chloroplasts (CITATION). A null mutant of this gene in Arabidopsis shows an ovule abortion phenotype (CITATION). Of all the nara mutants, nara5 showed the greatest decrease in Rubisco content; therefore, it was selected for further detailed analyses and characterization. To predict the function of NARA5, homologous genes were surveyed using the deduced whole amino acid sequence as the query in the National Center for Biotechnology Information genome database (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/). Multiple alignments revealed that NARA5 showed 67%, 61%, and 51% amino acid sequence identity to Vitis vinifera hypothetical protein (GenBank: CAN82032), Oryza sativa hypothetical protein (GenBank: NP_001065468), and Physcomitrella patens predicted protein (GenBank: XP_001764628), respectively (Fig. 5B). Gly-209 was completely conserved in these sequences. The sequences most homologous to NARA5 in the Arabidopsis genome were a pfkB-type carbohydrate kinase family protein (At1g19600) and adenosine kinase 2 (CITATION), but their identities were only 16.6% and 14.6%, respectively. This suggests that NARA5 is a single gene in Arabidopsis. NARA5 had two conserved motifs, the NXXE motif (CITATION) and the pfkB family of carbohydrate kinases signature 2 (PROSITE: PS00584). Both of these motifs are found in pfkB-type carbohydrate kinases including ribokinase (RK), adenosine kinase (ADK), and guanosine/inosine kinase (GSK) in several organisms (Fig. 5B). The NXXE motif is involved in binding metal and phosphate ions (CITATION), and the signature 2 motif is involved in transferring the phosphate group in the kinase reaction (CITATION; CITATION). However, there were low identities of full-length NARA5 to these kinases. We expressed a recombinant NARA5 conjugated to a His tag at the C terminus in Escherichia coli, but the recombinant protein did not show any of these activities (data not shown). To define the genetic relationship between NARA5 and these kinases, a phylogenetic tree was constructed using amino acid sequences of NARA5, pfkB-type carbohydrate kinases, and related proteins (Fig. 5C). The clade of NARA5 and its homologs was phylogenetically distant from the clades containing RK, ADK, and GSK. Therefore, the function of NARA5 may differ from those of these kinases. We analyzed another nara5 mutant to understand the physiological significance of NARA5. The GABI-KAT line 718C05 was tagged by T-DNA in the first intron of the NARA5 gene (Fig. 5A). The tagged mutant was a null mutant of NARA5 (Fig. 6, A and B). An allelism test by outcrossing the nara5 homozygote and the heterozygote of the tagged mutant indicated that line 718C05 was a mutant allele of nara5 (Supplemental Fig. S4). The nara5 EMS mutant was renamed nara5-1, and the T-DNA insertion mutant was renamed nara5-2. Compared with nara5-1, nara5-2 was yellower and smaller when grown heterotrophically on Suc and could not grow autotrophically on soil. The phenotype of nara5-2 was recovered by introducing the full-length NARA5 fused to a His tag and to synthetic GFP (sGFP) at the C terminus (Fig. 6A). Thus, NARA5 encodes a gene that is essential for autotrophic photosynthetic growth of Arabidopsis, and nara5-1 was a leaky mutant with a normal transcription level of nara5 (Fig. 6B). In 8-d-old wild-type plants, the NARA5 mRNA content was 65 times higher in illuminated shoots than in roots. In shoots, the mRNA levels were highest in rosette leaves, with 20% lower levels in the cauline leaves and inflorescence tissues (Supplemental Fig. S5). NARA5 mRNA levels were lowest in the stems. This expression pattern is comparable to that of the Rubisco gene transcripts in higher plants (CITATION). The long N-terminal nonconserved sequence (+1 to +117) of NARA5 and its function proposed in this study suggest that NARA5 is localized in chloroplasts (Fig. 5B). Indeed, TargetP predicted that the N-terminal sequence was a chloroplast transit sequence. To analyze the localization of NARA5, we introduced a binary vector containing the sGFP gene fused to the C terminus of the full-length NARA5 sequence under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter into plants with the nara5 alleles. The NARA5-sGFP fusion protein completely complemented the phenotype and the Rubisco content in the mutants (Fig. 6A). NARA5-sGFP signals were visualized as green spots clearly superimposed on the red fluorescence from protochlorophyllide and chlorophyll (Fig. 7 ). These results suggest that NARA5 is localized in chloroplasts. [[FIGURE]] We compared chlorophyll fluorescence parameters between the wild type and nara5-1 (Table III ). Compared with the wild type, the maximum quantum yield (Fv/Fm) and the quantum efficiency of PSII (φPSII) were severely reduced in the nara5-1 mutant, and the reduction level of the primary electron-accepting plastoquinone of PSII (1 − qP), was increased. These results suggest that, in addition to Rubisco accumulation, photochemical activities are also impaired in nara5-1. Photosynthetic parameters of the wild type and nara5-1 Data represent means ± sd (n = 3). Western blotting of chloroplast proteins encoded by the chloroplast and chromosomal genomes in both alleles of nara5 is shown in Figure 6. Compared with the wild type, the levels of D1, D2, cytochrome (Cyt) b6, and PsaA, as well as LSU of Rubisco, all encoded by the plastid genome, were reduced by approximately 80% in nara5-1 and by up to 90% in nara5-2. Such severe reductions in levels of photosynthetic proteins other than Rubisco were not observed in the rbcL-deficient mutant of tobacco (CITATION). In addition to these plastid-encoded proteins, the nucleus-encoded γ-subunit of ATP synthase showed similarly reduced levels. In protein complexes such as ATP synthase, which include subunits encoded by both nuclear and plastid genomes, the expression of the γ-subunit gene in nuclei may have been affected by expression of the partner gene in chloroplasts. On the other hand, the expression of the nucleus-encoded chloroplast proteins Fru-bisP aldolase (FBA) and ferredoxin-NADP+ oxidoreductase (FNR) was unaffected in these mutants. These results suggest that NARA5 is involved in the synthesis and/or maintenance of proteins coded by the plastid genome. During greening of leaves, large amounts of photosynthetic proteins including Rubisco are synthesized in a relatively short time (CITATION; CITATION). We examined the accumulation of photosynthetic proteins during leaf greening of nara5 mutants (Fig. 8 ). Accumulation of the Rubisco LSU in etioplasts was strongly repressed during growth of nara5 mutants in the dark (see time 0). Illumination of dark-grown wild-type seedlings caused massive accumulation of plastid-encoded LSU, D2, and Cyt b6 and nucleus-encoded FBA and FNR. On the contrary, nara5 mutants could not massively accumulate plastid-encoded proteins during greening, while the increase in nucleus-encoded proteins was unaffected. [[FIGURE]] To determine the mechanism by which expression of plastid-encoded photosynthetic genes is repressed in nara5 mutants, we measured transcript levels of these genes in dark-grown and greening nara5 mutants using real-time PCR. Since these photosynthetic genes are transcribed by PEP, we also measured transcripts of clpP, a plastid-encoded gene transcribed by PEP and nucleus-encoded RNA polymerase (NEP), and rpoB transcribed only by NEP (Fig. 8B). Expression data are relative values and are compared with the level in dark-grown wild-type plants at time 0. The expression of genes transcribed by PEP was more severely suppressed in nara5 mutants than those transcribed by NEP/PEP and NEP. Among the genes examined, the transcript level of rbcL was most severely suppressed in nara5 alleles. The transcript level of the nucleus-encoded RbcS in nara mutants was lowered after 10 h of illumination compared with the wild type. This may have been caused by the suppression of plastid gene transcription in the mutant, as has been reported (CITATION). The severe suppression of rbcL transcription may have been a major cause of the decreased Rubisco accumulation in nara5 mutants. Next, we examined the effect of greening on expression of the NARA5 gene (Fig. 8C). A basal level of NARA5 transcripts was found in etiolated cotyledons, but this level increased 4.5-fold during greening under illumination for 60 h. Together, these results indicate that NARA5 has a role in expression of PEP-transcribed photosynthetic genes, particularly rbcL.
!~MM~! We used Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia [Col-0]) as the wild type, the mutant lines rca (CITATION) and nara, and the GABI-KAT line 718C05 (nara5-2). All nara mutants were back-crossed with wild-type Col-0 at least three times except nara5-2, which was back-crossed twice. The plants were grown on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 3% (w/v) Suc, 0.5 g L−1 MES (pH 5.7), 0.8 μm nicotinic acid, 0.4 μm pyridoxine hydrochloride, 2.4 μm thiamine hydrochloride, 550 μm myoinositol, and 0.8% (w/v) agar, with a 16-h-light (50 μmol photons m−2 s−1)/8-h-dark cycle at 23°C, unless otherwise specified. We screened nara mutants by uniformly spreading 40 to 50 seeds of EMS-mutagenized M2 plants in the Col-0 genetic background (Lehle Seeds) on selective plates. The selection medium was NH4NO3- and KNO3-free Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 50 μm MSX, 30 mm Gln, 3% (w/v) Suc, 19 mm KCl, 0.5 g L−1 MES (pH 5.7), 0.8 μm nicotinic acid, 0.4 μm pyridoxine hydrochloride, 2.4 μm thiamine hydrochloride, 550 μm myoinositol, and 0.8% (w/v) agar. Plants were initially grown for 2 to 3 weeks in the presence of 5% CO2 under a 20-h photoperiod (50 μmol photons m−2 s−1)/4 h of dark at 23°C. Plates were then transferred to continuous irradiation at 130 to 190 μmol photons m−2 s−1 in ambient air. After 5 to 6 d, MSX-resistant mutants with green or pale green leaves were selected. Plants were then grown on selection medium without MSX for 2 to 3 weeks and then on soil (Metro-Mix 350; Scot-Sierra Horticultural Products) until self-fertilization, both in 5% CO2. Homozygous nara mutants were crossed with Landsberg erecta ecotypes. The F1 plants were self-pollinated, and the resulting F2 plants were used for segregation analyses and mapping of nara mutations. Genomic DNA was isolated according to CITATION. Mapping was carried out using extracted genomic DNA from 571 F2 progeny for nara3, 557 F2 progeny for nara5, 789 F2 progeny for nara7, and 964 F2 progeny for nara10. The mutations were mapped with molecular markers based on simple sequence length polymorphism (CITATION) and cleaved-amplified polymorphic sequence (CITATION) markers. Genomic sequences of candidate mutated genes were amplified by PCR using ExTaq DNA polymerase (TaKaRa), and the PCR products were directly sequenced using a BigDye terminator version 3.1 Cycle Sequencing Kit and an ABI PRISM 3100 sequencer. For expression of NARA5, NARA5-sGFP, and NARA5-His in plants with nara5 alleles, a series of Gateway binary vectors (pGWBs) were used as described by CITATION. We obtained the full-length cDNA of NARA5 from cDNA of 14-d-old Arabidopsis seedlings by PCR using the primer pair 5′-AAAAAGCAGGCTCCATGGCGTTCTCCCTCCTCTC-3′ (NARA5 forward)/5′-AGAAAGCTGGGTCGAGGTTTCATCAAGACCCAACATCT-3′. For fusion of sGFP or His to NARA5 at the C terminus, NARA5 cDNAs lacking the stop codon were amplified by PCR using the primer pair NARA5 forward/5′-AGAAAGCTGGGTTAGACCCAACATCTGTTCGAACAC-3′. Recombination reactions (BP reactions) were used to clone cDNA of NARA5 into pDONR221. Each NARA5 cDNA was subsequently introduced into pGWB2, pGWB5, or pGWB8 by recombination reactions (LR reactions) according to the manufacturer's protocol (Invitrogen). These binary vectors were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens MP90 by electroporation and then into plants with nara5 alleles by the floral dip method. Shoots were homogenized in liquid nitrogen with a mortar and pestle and then dissolved in extraction buffer (50 mm HEPES-KOH [pH 8.0], 1 mm EDTA, 1 mm dithiothreitol [DTT], 1 mm MgCl2, and 2 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride). Rubisco activity was spectrophotometrically assayed by measuring the rate of NADH oxidation in the presence of phosphoglycerate kinase and glyceraldehyde 3-P dehydrogenase (CITATION) with some modifications. The homogenate was centrifuged at 18,800g for 10 s at 4°C, and aliquots of the supernatant were immediately used for assay for 30 s to determine the initial activity of Rubisco. The reaction mixture contained 50 mm Tris-HCl (pH 8.0), 1 mm EDTA, 5 mm DTT, 20 mm MgCl2, 20 mm NaHCO3, 2 mm ribulose 1,5-bisP, 0.2 mm NADH, 1 mm ATP, 5 mm creatine phosphate, 10 units of creatine kinase, 40 units of 3-phosphoglycerate kinase, and 40 units of glyceraldehyde 3-P dehydrogenase. Rubisco in the crude extract was activated by 20 mm MgCl2 and 20 mm NaHCO3. After activation for 10 min at room temperature, Rubisco was added to the reaction mixture to determine total activity. To determine Rubisco content, shoots were homogenized on ice with a mortar and pestle and dissolved in extraction buffer (50 mm HEPES-KOH [pH 8.0], 1 mm EDTA, 1 mm DTT, and 1 mm MgCl2) supplemented with complete protease inhibitor cocktail tablets (Roche). The homogenate was then centrifuged at 18,800g for 20 min at 4°C. Total proteins in the supernatant were separated by native-PAGE on a 3% to 10% gradient gel (PAGEL NPG-310L; ATTO) at 4°C. Gels were stained with Coomassie Brilliant Blue R-250. The prominent band intensity corresponding to the Rubisco holoenzyme was measured by a scanning densitometer and quantified using NIH Image software (National Institutes of Health). To compare the amount of Rubisco among the mutants, we constructed a calibration curve from the staining intensities of Rubisco protein bands of wild-type plants. For each mutant, we calculated relative amounts of Rubisco per 2 μg of total soluble protein and then expressed the amount as a percentage of that in wild-type plants. Extraction of proteins from shoots was modified slightly depending on the localization of individual proteins in plant cells. Plant shoots were homogenized and centrifuged as described above. Soluble proteins in the supernatant were quantified as described by CITATION. Insoluble proteins in pellets and total proteins of shoots were prepared and measured using the EZ method (CITATION). Proteins were separated by 12.5% SDS-PAGE and transferred onto a BioTrace polyvinylidene difluoride membrane (Bio-Rad Laboratories). The membrane was immunoreacted with anti-Rubisco LSU, anti-chloroplast FBA, anti-D1, anti-D2, anti-Cyt b6, anti-γ-subunit of ATP synthase, and anti-FNR antibodies. Antibodies against the chloroplast proteins D1, D2, PsaA, and Cyt b6 were purchased from Agrisera (http://www.agrisera.com/). Immunoreactive proteins were detected using the ECL-Plus Kit (Amersham Biosciences). Total RNA was extracted using an RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen). We treated RNA with FPLC-pure DNase I (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech) for 30 min at 37°C, and then RNA was purified by phenol/chloroform extraction and ethanol precipitation. Single-strand cDNA was synthesized from 0.5 μg of total RNA using an oligo(dT) primer and ReverTraAce (Toyobo), except that cDNA of plastid-encoded genes was synthesized using a random primer (Toyobo) in place of the oligo(dT) primer. Semiquantitative reverse transcription (RT)-PCR was performed using the following specific primer pairs: for NARA5, 5′-TGAATTCATACAAGTCCATGCTAAT-3′/5′-TCATCCACAACTCCAGAGAAATC-3′; for Act8, 5′-GACATCGTTTCCATGACGGGATCA-3′/5′-CGCTGTAACCGGAAAGTTTCTCAC-3′. Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using the ABI PRISM 7000 Sequence Detection System (Applied Biosystems) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Each 25-μL PCR mixture contained gene-specific primer sets (0.2 μm each), 12.5 μL of Power SYBR Green PCR Master Mix (Applied Biosystems), and 1 μL of a 64-fold dilution of the cDNA. Thermal cycling consisted of an initial step at 95°C for 10 min, followed by 40 cycles of 5 s at 95°C and 20 s at 60°C. The following specific primers were used: for rbcL, 5′-TGACCGAGATCTTTGGAGATGA-3′/5′-CAAGATCACGTCCCTCATTACG-3′; for RbcS, 5′-CCGCTCAAGTGTTGAAGGAAG-3′/5′-GGCTTGTAGGCAATGAAACTGA-3′; for petB, 5′-AGTGCTAGTGTTGGACAATCCAC-3′/5′-AGGGACCAGAAATACCTTGCTTAC-3′. Amplicon size and specificity for each primer pair were confirmed by gel electrophoresis. Quantitative RT-PCR of psbA was conducted with primers described by CITATION. Primers for psbD, psaA, clpP, and rpoB were as described by CITATION. Primers for Act2 were as described by CITATION. Chlorophyll fluorescence parameters were measured with a MINI-PAM portable chlorophyll fluorometer (Walz) as described elsewhere (CITATION) with some modifications. Plants were dark acclimated for 10 min before measurements. We used a light pulse of 3,000 μmol photons m−2 s−1 for 800 ms and actinic light of 120 μmol photons m−2 s−1 for 5 min to determine the maximal fluorescence and the steady-state fluorescence, respectively. NARA5-sGFP fluorescence was observed with an LSM510 confocal laser scanning microscope (Carl Zeiss Microimaging). An argon laser was used as the excitation light source (488 nm), and sGFP signal was detected at an emission band of 500 to 530 nm. Chlorophyll autofluorescence was observed using an LP 650 optical filter. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Conditional lethal effect of MSX on Arabidopsis wild-type plants. Supplemental Figure S2. Detection of nara3, nara5, nara7, and nara10 mutations using cleaved-amplified polymorphic sequence markers. Supplemental Figure S3. Lethal photorespiratory phenotype of nara7. Supplemental Figure S4. Allelism between nara5-1 and nara5-2. Supplemental Figure S5. Expression levels of NARA5 in different tissues of wild-type Arabidopsis.
