!~ABS~! The apical domain of the embryo is partitioned into distinct regions that will give rise to the cotyledons and the shoot apical meristem. In this article, we describe a novel screen to identify Arabidopsis thaliana embryo arrest mutants that are defective in this partitioning, and we describe the phenotype of one such mutant, bobber1. bobber1 mutants arrest at the globular stage of development, they express the meristem-specific SHOOTMERISTEMLESS gene throughout the top half of the embryo, and they fail to express the AINTEGUMENTA transcript normally found in cotyledons. Thus, BOBBER1 is required to limit the extent of the meristem domain and/or to promote the development of the cotyledon domains. Based on expression of early markers for apical development, bobber1 mutants differentiate protodermis and undergo normal early apical development. Consistent with a role for auxin in cotyledon development, BOBBER1 mutants fail to express localized maxima of the DR5:green fluorescent protein reporter. BOBBER1 encodes a protein with homology to the Aspergillus nidulans protein NUDC that has similarity to protein chaperones, indicating a possible role for BOBBER1 in synthesis or transport of proteins involved in patterning the Arabidopsis embryo.
!~RES~! With the goal of isolating embryo lethal mutants that are defective in partitioning the apical domain of the embryo, we mutagenized a line carrying a reporter for the STM locus. This reporter expresses the β-glucuronidase (GUS) enzyme marker in the developing SAM (Figure 1 ; CITATION; CITATION). The reporter is not expressed throughout the SAM but is excluded from the central region of the developing meristem (Figure 1D). [[FIGURE]] Following ethyl methanesulfonate mutagenesis, M2 seeds were harvested from individual M1 plants and planted to soil. A total of 1695 independent embryo arrest mutants, occurring in 819 M2 families, were identified. (Embryo arrest mutants found in the same M2 family were considered independent if individual M2 plants segregated embryos arrested at distinct stages.) Arrested embryos developing in the siliques of M2 plants were dissected out of the ovules when siblings were at heart stage and stained with GUS staining solution. In ∼15% of siliques segregating embryo arrests, neither the wild-type nor the arrested embryos showed GUS expression, presumably reflecting silencing of the transgene. Among those siliques where the transgene remained active, 69 embryo arrest mutants (4% of total) were found to have ectopic expression of STM-GUS, while 182 embryo arrest mutants (11% of total) failed to express the STM-GUS reporter. In all cases, the wild-type siblings of the arrested embryos expressed STM-GUS in the wild-type fashion. Mutant embryos ectopically expressing STM showed a range of phenotypes with regard both to stage of arrest and to pattern of ectopic expression. Most ectopically expressing mutants formed cotyledons flanking a broader domain of STM expression. A few mutants showed ectopic expression and arrested at the globular stage; examples of such mutant embryos are shown in Figure 1. One type of mutant (represented by one mutation, the bobber1 mutation described below) expressed the STM reporter throughout the top half of the globular embryo (Figure 1G). A second type of mutant (represented by two mutations) expressed the STM reporter throughout the globular embryo (Figure 1H). A third type of mutant (represented by one mutation) expressed the STM reporter in a hypertrophied suspensor (Figure 1I). Of the mutants that failed to express the STM-GUS reporter, most (154) arrested at the globular stage (Figure 1K). A minority of the nonexpressing class of embryo arrest mutants (26) developed past the globular stage (Figure 1J). Because STM reporter expression does not begin in the wild type until the late globular or transition stage, a globular arrest mutant that fails to express the reporter may do so because it is blocked in its development and has not matured to the stage at which STM is expressed. Alternatively, it may do so due to a patterning defect, such as failure to specify a SAM domain. Because we cannot distinguish between these two possibilities, we chose to focus on an ectopically expressing line for in-depth study rather than a nonexpressing line. One of the mutants isolated from the screen was bob1, an embryo arrest mutant that fails to develop past the globular stage of embryogenesis (Figures 1G and 2 ). bob1 mutants arrest consistently at the globular stage of embryogenesis, never morphologically developing to the transition stage (Figure 2). bob1 mutants account for ∼25% of embryos in the self-progeny of heterozygous individuals, consistent with a recessive mutation in a single, nuclear gene (see Supplemental Table 1 online). [[FIGURE]] The initial assay for STM:GUS reporter expression in a bob1 mutant embryo revealed that the expression of STM, normally confined to a few cells in the middle of the apical portion of the embryo, is expressed throughout the apical half of bob1 embryos (Figure 1G). STM expression begins in wild-type embryos at the late globular or transition stage. By the time wild-type siblings have reached early heart stage, bob1 mutant embryos have begun to express the STM:GUS reporter. In situ hybridization experiments on siliques from plants heterozygous for the bob1 mutation using an antisense STM probe confirm that STM is ectopically expressed in bob1 embryos (Figures 2F and 2G). Expression in the entire apical hemisphere of the globular embryo indicates that STM is expressed in cells that would normally be specified as cotyledon tissue. bob mutant embryos can reliably be distinguished from their wild-type siblings beginning when the wild-type embryos are at heart stage. In siliques of bob1/+ plants, one-quarter of the embryos remain at early globular stages, while none do so in siliques on +/+ sibling plants. (A total of 15/50 embryos in bob1/+ siliques were at the 16-cell stage or earlier; the remainder were beyond the 32-cell stage, with the majority [22] being at the transition stage. For +/+ siliques, 0/43 embryos were at the 16-cell stage or earlier, with the majority [20] being at the transition stage.) The presumed homozygous bob1 embryos have normal division patterns at the 8- and 16-cell stage (Figures 2C and 2D; see also sections of bob embryos in Figures 3 to 5⇓⇓ and 7). In older bob embryos, cells of the epidermal layer are seen to bulge outward (Figure 2E). Additional cell divisions take place in bob embryos (for example, see Figure 3J ), but the embryos never make the transition to a heart shape and instead remain globular in shape. [[FIGURE]] Although bob1 mutant embryos arrest at the globular stage, they do not die at this point. Experiments that rely on the continued ability of bob1 embryos to maintain undegraded RNA (in situ hybridizations) and protein (STM:GUS reporter protein assays) indicate that they remain viable until the time that the wild-type embryos in the silique mature and desiccate. To test if bob1 embryos would recover and restart their development if given enough time, we placed arrested bob1 embryos on three different types of tissue culture media and evaluated their reactions (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). bob1 embryos were dissected from their seed coats when wild-type siblings were at the bent-cot stage. Although the wild-type siblings placed on Fisher and Li media grew and became wild-type-looking seedlings, none of the bob1 embryos on any of the media ever grew or developed any further. To test if ectopic expression of STM is the only defect in bob1 mutant embryos, bob1/+ plants were crossed to stm-11/+ plants. Because stm/stm plants survive through embryogenesis (CITATION), if ectopic expression of STM were the only defect in bob1 mutants, bob1/bob1 stm-11/stm-11 double mutants should survive embryogenesis and have the phenotype of stm-11/stm-11 single mutants. In that case, F1 plants heterozygous for both bob1 and stm-11 should segregate 3/16 bob1 embryos (18.75%). If, however, ectopic expression of STM were not the only defect in bob1 mutants, removing STM function should have no impact on the bob1 arrest phenotype; all bob1/+ F1 individuals should segregate 1/4 bob1 embryos, regardless of their STM genotype. The self-progeny of 16 F1 progeny from four different bob1/+ by stm-11/+ crosses were examined and the number of bob1 and wild-type embryos recorded (see Supplemental Table 1 online). bob1 individuals accounted for 23.5% of the embryos in the siliques of all of the bob1/+ stm-11/+ individuals combined. χ2 testing reveals that the hypothesis of 3/16 segregation of bob1 embryos must be rejected (P < 0.001) but that a 1/4 hypothesis cannot be rejected (P = 0.5). Therefore, removing STM function from bob1 mutant embryos does not rescue the embryo arrest phenotype; the defect in bob1 mutants is not simply the overexpression of STM. CUC2 is required, along with CUC1, for meristem formation and cotyledon separation in the Arabidopsis embryo (CITATION). CUC2 mRNA expression precedes STM expression and is required for the accumulation of STM transcript in the embryo (CITATION). To determine if the pattern of expression of CUC2 as well as that of STM is affected in bob1 embryos, we examined the expression of CUC2 in bob1 mutant embryos. Our results indicate that CUC2 is first expressed in the entirety of the apical region of the wild-type 16-cell stage embryo (Figure 3A). This is earlier and more extensive than has been reported previously (CITATION). CUC2 expression clears out of the protoderm layer at around the 32-cell stage (Figure 3B), ultimately becoming limited to a stripe across the apical half of the globular embryo. Viewed in frontal section, the expression appears to be confined to the cells of the presumptive meristem (Figure 3C). Viewed in the sagittal plane, however, CUC2 mRNA is present in a band across the apical half of the embryo (CITATION). This band of expression represents the portion of the embryo that will become the SAM (central part of the band) and the boundaries separating the cotyledon margins. The areas free of CUC2 expression in the globular embryo represent portions of the apical domain that will grow out as cotyledons (CITATION). In bob1 mutant embryos, CUC2 expression is initially similar to that seen in wild-type embryos; it accumulates throughout the apical domain of the 16-cell stage embryo and then becomes limited to the subepidermal cells of the late globular stage embryo (Figure 3E). However, further limiting of CUC2 to a central stripe separating two cotyledon domains does not appear to occur, and the CUC2 domain of expression may be slightly expanded relative to that of the wild type (cf. Figures 3F and 3G to 3D). In summary, expression of CUC2 is expanded in bob1 mutant embryos but is less affected than the expression of STM. The exclusion of CUC2 from the epidermis in both wild-type and bob1 mutant embryos indicates that the specification and early development of the protoderm is normal in bob1 mutant embryos. To further test this, we examined the expression of the ARABIDOPSIS THALIANA MERISTEM LAYER L1 (ATML1) mRNA in wild-type and bob1 mutant embryos. The ATML1 gene encodes a transcription factor in the HDZIPIV class (CITATION). Some members of this family have been implicated in the establishment and maintenance of the epidermis (CITATION). Consistent with this, the ATML1 expression pattern distinguishes the outer cell layer from internal layers beginning at the dermatogen stage (CITATION). In bob1 mutant embryos, ATML1 mRNA accumulates normally (Figure 3H). Therefore, formation of the protoderm layer of the embryo does not appear to be affected by the bob1 mutation. The expanded domain of expression of STM suggests that bob1 embryos are defective in specification of the cotyledon primordia. To test this, we examined expression of the ANT1 mRNA in wild-type and bob1 mutant embryos. The ANT1 gene is expressed in all the lateral organs of the plant, including the cotyledons in the embryo (CITATION). It therefore provides a good marker for cotyledon fate. Wild-type embryos begin expressing the ANT transcript at the late globular stage of embryogenesis (CITATION) in a ring around the periphery of the apical half of the embryo, reflecting the establishment of radial symmetry in the apical region of the embryo. Expression continues throughout embryogenesis, becoming confined to internal tissues of the cotyledons later in embryogenesis (CITATION). The ANT transcript was not detected in bob1 embryos (Figure 4 ), consistent with a defect in the developmental program that specifies cotyledon fate. [[FIGURE]] Like STM and CUC2, the WUS gene is required for the normal establishment of the SAM during embryogenesis. However, WUS is expressed in a pattern that is distinct from that of either STM or CUC2. In wild-type embryos, the WUS transcript accumulates from the 16-cell stage throughout embryogenesis, first appearing in all nonprotoderm cells of the apical embryo, then in a progressively smaller region as cell divisions narrow its pattern to a final expression domain that is one to two cells wide and one cell deep in the L3 layer of the SAM in the mature embryo (CITATION). Accumulation of low levels of the WUS transcript can be seen in bob1 embryos in variable positions. A small region of expression is typically seen somewhere in the apical domain of the embryo (Figure 3J). This region is often off center. It appears that the mRNA accumulates in a slightly different position in each embryo, as if the positional cues WUS needs for correct localization are disrupted or destabilized. However, unlike STM, the number of cells expressing WUS is not increased. UNUSUAL FLORAL ORGANS (UFO) appears in a subset of meristem cells, beginning around the early heart stage of embryogenesis. Its expression in the embryo is confined to the cells of the presumptive SAM. By the torpedo stage, expression is narrowed to a cup-shaped subdomain within the STM expressing domain (CITATION). Although initially expressed in both protodermal and subepidermal regions, by the late heart stage, expression is restricted to layers below the L1 (CITATION). UFO expression in the embryo requires STM function, and UFO is expressed ectopically in 35S:STM-VP16 transgenic plants (CITATION), indicating that UFO is a target, perhaps direct, of STM regulation. While the role of UFO in the embryo, if any, is unknown, it provides a marker for events downstream of STM. UFO is expressed in bob1 mutants, but in a manner that suggests that the positional cues UFO needs for proper expression are disrupted (Figure 5 ). The intensity and area of expression are variable from embryo to embryo. Expression is largely, if not entirely, confined to the protoderm in the apical portion of the embryo. Thus, as in the wild type, expression of UFO is limited to a subdomain of STM expressing cells, which is consistent with a requirement for STM plus another factor in activating UFO expression. [[FIGURE]] Recently, directed transport of auxin into the cotyledon domains has been proposed as a mechanism to explain the early events in specification of cotyledon primordia (for review, see CITATION). In support of this, high levels of expression from the auxin-sensitive DR5 reporter are observed in the early cotyledon primordia in wild-type embryos (Figure 6 ). bob mutant embryos that do not carry the green fluorescent protein (GFP) transgene do not show significant levels of autofluorescence, indicating that the observed fluorescence is not due to alterations in bob mutant physiology. In bob1 mutant embryos, DR5 is expressed throughout the globular stage embryo, suggesting that uniform and high auxin levels are found throughout the embryo (Figure 6). Thus, bob1 mutants are defective in limiting auxin maxima in the apical domain of the embryo to the cotyledon primorida as well as to the root pole of the embryo and show overall higher levels of auxin throughout the globular embryo. [[FIGURE]] Auxin maxima in the embryo have been associated both with the developing cotyledon primordia as well as with the developing root pole of the embryo. To determine if gene expression patterns are abnormal at the root end of the embryo, we analyzed expression of the SCARECROW gene. SCARECROW expression is first seen at the globular stage, where it is found in the lenticular cell (Figure 7 ). Expression expands to include the endodermis as the embryo progresses through the heart and torpedo stages. By contrast, bob mutant embryos fail to express the SCARECROW transgene. Thus, gene expression associated with the auxin maximum at the root pole of the embryo is also disrupted in bob mutant embryos. [[FIGURE]] Preliminary mapping of the BOB1 locus placed it at the bottom of Arabidopsis chromosome 5, between cleaved-amplified polymorphic sequence (CAPS) markers DFR (87.6 centimorgan [cM] on the recombinant inbred map) and LFY3 (115 cM on the recombinant inbred map) (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). New CAPS markers were developed for fine mapping (see Supplemental Table 2 online), and the BOB1 region was narrowed to a 53-kb region at ∼108 cM on chromosome 5. Two DNA clones overlapped this region: K19E1, a TAC clone; and MYN8, a P1 clone (CITATION). The 53-kb BOB1 region contained 10 predicted genes (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Predicted genes were amplified from wild-type Landsberg erecta (Ler) genomic DNA and their sequences compared with published sequences from the same open reading frames in wild-type Columbia (Col). Polymorphic loci in the coding sequences of the two ecotypes were identified. Predicted genes were then amplified out of genomic DNA from an F1 plant resulting from a cross between a bob1/+ plant and a wild-type Col plant. Because the bob1 mutation is on a Ler chromosome, the F1 plant contains one Ler chromosome containing the mutation and one wild-type Col chromosome. Amplification reaction products should be 50% from the Ler allele and 50% from the Col allele. Amplification products were cloned into plasmid vectors, and the inserts of several independent clones were sequenced and examined for the presence of a mutation. To ensure that both chromosomes present in the bob1/+ F1 plant had been examined for mutations, the sequences were compared in amplification products containing polymorphisms between Ler and Col sequences. Sequencing of the MYN8.1 locus (At5g53400) from the Ler chromosome of a bob1-1/+ plant revealed that it contained a C-to-T transition that created a stop codon at amino acid position 196 of the predicted protein (see Supplemental Figure 1 online; Figure 8 ). To ensure that this was the mutation causing the bob1 phenotype, a 6-kb fragment of MYN8 DNA was amplified and put into binary vector pCAMBIA 1300 for transformation into wild-type Arabidopsis (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). The rescue plasmid was named pREJ14. After transformation, wild-type Ler plants resistant to hygromycin were crossed to bob1/+ plants. The hygromycin-resistant F1 progeny from this cross were allowed to self-fertilize, and the embryos inside self-crossed siliques were examined for segregation of bob1 embryos. bob1 and wild-type embryos in siliques from F1 plants that segregated bob1 embryos were counted (see Supplemental Table 3 online). A total of 5.6% of these embryos displayed the bob1 phenotype, which is in agreement with 1/16 bob1 embryos, the expected ratio for self-progeny segregating from a parent heterozygous for the bob1 mutation and hemizygous for a rescuing plasmid (χ2 testing; P = 0.5). [[FIGURE]] Finally, a second allele (bob1-2) containing a T-DNA insertion in the N terminus of bob1 at Ile-117 (Salk_001125) was obtained from the Salk T-DNA collection. Self-pollinated bob1-2 siliques contain embryos arrested at the globular stage in a 1:3 ratio. To show that these aborted embryos were due to a lesion in BOB1, crosses between bob1-1 and bob1-2 heterozygous plants were performed. bob1-1 failed to complement the bob1-2 aborted embryo phenotype (see Supplemental Table 4 online). These genetic and molecular complementation experiments demonstrate that the bob1-1 embryo arrest phenotype is due to mutations in the MYN8.1 (At5g53400) gene. To demonstrate that the STM mislocalization phenotype observed in bob1-1 arrested embryos is due to the bob1-1 lesion as opposed to a separate linked mutation, we further characterized bob1-2. Plants heterozygous for bob1-2 were crossed to the STM:GUS reporter. Arrested embryos in the siliques of the self-pollinated progeny of this cross displayed STM expression, which was similar to the mislocalization observed in bob1-1 (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). Since two independent bob1 alleles both display STM mislocalization, we conclude that this phenotype is specifically due to lesions in BOB1. BOB1 encodes a homolog of the A. nidulans NUDC (for Nuclear Distribution C) gene, and NudC domain containing proteins are found in fungi, animals, and plants (Figure 8). There is one close BOB1 homolog in the Arabidopsis genome that is contained in a BOB1 syntenous region (CITATION). BOB2 (At4g27890) is very similar to BOB1, sharing 62% identity over the whole protein and 81% identity within the conserved C-terminal domain. The stop codon in bob1-1 is near the start of the conserved C-terminal NudC domain of the BOB1 gene (Figure 8). The placement of the mutation and the severity of the bob1 phenotype indicate that this conserved domain is important to the functioning of BOB1, although it is currently unknown what its biochemical function might be. Sectioned siliques from a plant heterozygous for the bob1 mutation were examined by in situ hybridization using an antisense probe made from BOB1 cDNA. The results indicate that BOB1 is expressed throughout the early embryo (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). BOB1 mRNA first accumulates at a point before the eight-cell stage of embryogenesis, and expression remains strong until the transition stage. In transition and heart stage embryos, variable expression could be detected, and after heart stage, no mRNA could be detected. bob1 mutant embryos did not detectably express BOB1 mRNA. Sectioned siliques from bob1/+ plants examined with a control BOB1 sense probe did not show any hybridization. A BOB1:GUS reporter transgene was constructed and named pREJ19. BOB1 coding sequences with introns and ∼2.4 kb of 5′ sequences were amplified creating an in-frame fusion to GUS (see Supplemental Figure 5 online). Wild-type Ler plants were transformed with pREJ19, and hygromycin-resistant transformants were allowed to self-fertilize. GUS expression in pREJ19 transformed lines agrees with the in situ hybridization findings for BOB1 mRNA:BOB1-GUS is expressed throughout the early embryo and clears away at a variable time after transition stage. The BOB1-GUS reporter seems to be detectable until later in embryogenesis than BOB1 mRNA, perhaps reflecting the fact that the GUS assay detects protein, while the in situ hybridizations detect mRNA. Alternatively, the GUS reporter may be missing a negative controlling element. The same promoter fragment was used to drive expression of a BOB-GFP fusion protein. A genomic fragment including the promoter plus BOB exons and introns was fused to GFP. This construct was capable of rescuing bob null mutants. Analysis of embryos expressing this construct shows that the BOB protein accumulates throughout the cytoplasm (Figure 9 ). In heart stage embryos, the protein may be somewhat enriched in epidermal cells. The location of the BOB protein in the cytoplasm is consistent with a predicted role of NUDC-like proteins as chaperones (CITATION). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Unless otherwise noted, all plants were grown in soil (Scott's Metro-Mix 200) under constant light at 24°C. Seeds homozygous for the STM-GUS reporter were mutagenized by soaking in 0.4% ethyl methanesulfonate in deionized water for 8 h at room temperature with agitation and rinsed in deionized water. These M0 seeds were planted in soil and allowed to grow into adult plants. M1 seeds were harvested from individual adults and planted in soil. M2 embryos were dissected from their seed coats using etched tungsten dissecting needles from Fine Science Tools (catalog numbers 10130-05 and 10130-10). GUS expression was assayed by placing the embryos in 0.5 mg/mL 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-glucuronide, 100 mM NaPO4, pH 7, 5 mM FeCN, 10 mM EDTA, pH 7.6, and 0.1% Triton X-100 solution overnight at 37°C. Staining patterns were visualized with a dissecting microscope and a Nikon Optiphot-2 light microscope. Embryos were cleared for visualization using Hoyer's solution (to which 50 mL deionized water, 30 g gum arabic crystals, 200 g chloral hydrate, and 20 g glycerol was added). Embryos, in seed coats, were placed on a glass slide in a drop of Hoyer's solution and covered with a cover slip. Slight pressure was applied to break the seed coat. Embryos were allowed to clear for 30 min to 16 h and visualized with a Nikon Optiphot-2 light microscope. DNA extractions were performed using the method described by CITATION. BOB1 was mapped to a chromosome region using PCR-based CAPS markers (CITATION). New CAPS markers were developed for fine mapping (see Supplemental Table 2 online). Amplification of the genes in the BOB1 region for sequencing was done using ExTaq DNA polymerase from Panvera, and PCR products were cloned using pGEM-T Easy T-vectors from Promega. DNA sequencing was performed by University of Wisconsin Biotechnology Center Sequencing Services. Sequences were assembled and manipulated using DNAStar software. Sequence comparisons were done with ClustalX (CITATION), ReadSeq (copyright 1990 by D.G. Gilbert), and MacBoxshade (developed by Michael D. Baron). Percentage identity values were determined using the BLOSUM62 matrix with BLAST (CITATION) at the National Center for Biotechnology Information (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov). MYN8, a P1 clone containing the BOB1 gene, was obtained from the Kazusa Group, Japan. The wild-type BOB1 coding region (At5g53400) and surrounding sequences were amplified for constructs using ExTaq polymerase. Products were cloned first into pGEM-T Easy vector for manipulation. Binary vectors pCAMBIA 1300 (pREJ14) and pCAMBIA 1291Xb (pREJ19) were obtained from the Center for the Application of Molecular Biology to International Agriculture, Canberra, Australia. Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 was used to transform Ler plants. In situ hybridization was performed as described by CITATION. The STM probe was transcribed from plasmid MeriHB1, as described by CITATION. The ANT probe was transcribed from plasmid pANT, as described by CITATION. The ATML1 probe was transcribed from plasmid pATML1, made with a 517-bp fragment (base pairs 630 to 1217) amplified from genomic DNA using primers ATML1-1 (5′-GAGAACAATAGGTACAAGG-3′) and ATML1-2 (5′-CTCTCTTGAAGCTTCTGATC-3′), cut with RsaI and HindIII, and ligated into pLitmus 29 (New England Biolabs). The CUC2 probe was transcribed from plasmid pCUC2A, made with a 420-bp (base pairs 1187 to 1563) fragment amplified from genomic DNA using primers CUC2-1 (5′-CACCTCGAGGATCTCTAGGGTTTTCC-3′) and CUC2-2 (5′-CACTCTAGACTAGCGGCGGTGGAAG-3′), cut with XhoI and XbaI (engineered restriction sites), and ligated into pBluescript KS− (Stratagene). The UFO probe was transcribed from plasmid pDW22.1, as described by CITATION. The WUS probe was transcribed as described by CITATION. The BOB1 probe was transcribed from plasmid pBOB-AS, made with a 358-bp fragment (base pairs 289 to 647) amplified from the BOB1 cDNA using primers BOBPROBE 5′ (5′-ATATATCTAGACCTGTGGAGAAGAAAGCCGAGAAG-3′) and BOBPROBE 3′ (5′-TATATGAGCTCAGTCCGAAGTGTCTAGCCATCTCG-3′) and ligated into pGEM-T Easy (Promega). For in situ hybridization experiments on bob1 embryos, siliques were collected from bob1/+ plants, fixed, and sectioned. Because siliques were collected from heterozygous individuals, the bob embryos examined were side-by-side on the slide with their wild-type siblings, providing a positive control for hybridization of probes. Images were captured on a SPOT RT Slider CCD camera (Diagnostic Imaging) and manipulated using Adobe Photoshop software (Adobe Systems). bob1-1 was genotyped using primers bob1-1_dCAPS_F (5′-TGGGACTAAAGCACGGACTGTTG-3′) and bob1-1_dCAPS_R (5′-AGTAGCAGTCATCAGGCTTCACAGACC-3′) followed by digestion with MspI. The resulting PCR products were 200 bp (wild-type) and 226 bp (bob1-1). bob1-2 was amplified in a reaction containing primers bob1-2_F (5′-GACTTTCTCGGAGAACAGAGC-3′), bob1-2_R (5′-CCTCCTGGAGATTCTGGATCC-3′), and LBb1 (5′-GCGTGGACCGCTTGCTGCAACT-3′). The resulting PCR products were 630 bp (wild type) and 450 bp (bob1-2). Plants containing a DR5-GFP transgene (CITATION) were crossed to bob1-1/+ plants. The F1 plants were allowed to self-fertilize to generate bob1-1/+ plants homozygous for DR5-GFP. Wild-type and bob1 embryos dissected from the same silique were imaged using a Leica SP5 AOBS confocal microscope (Leica Microsystems). Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: At BOB1, At5g53400, At BOB2, At4g27890; BOB1 homologs: Os, GI:51535412; Hs, GI:62287138; Dr, GI:46249697; Ce NUD-1 GI:9081901; Sp, GI:3150135; and An NUDC, GI:40743172. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Map-Based Cloning Strategy for the BOBBER1 Locus. Supplemental Figure 2. Composition of Constructs Used to Rescue the bob1 Mutant Phenotype (A) and to Test Localization of BOBBER1 Promoter Activity (B). Supplemental Figure 3. Homozygous bobber1-2 Mutant Embryo Showing Ectopic Expression of the STM Reporter. Supplemental Figure 4. BOBBER mRNA Expression in Wild-Type and bobber Mutant Embryos. Supplemental Figure 5. Expression of pREJ10, a BOBBER-GUS Fusion Protein, in Wild-Type Embryos. Supplemental Table 1. Segregation of bobr1 Mutant Embryos in bob1-1/+ and bob1-1/+ stm-11/+ Families. Supplemental Table 2. CAPS Markers Developed for Mapping the bob1 Mutation. Supplemental Table 3. Complementation of the bob1 Phenotype by the Wild-Type BOBBER1 Transgene. Supplemental Table 4. Complementation Data for bob1-1 and bob1-2.
