!~ABS~! Widespread antibiotic resistance is a major public health concern, and plants represent an emerging antibiotic exposure route. Recent studies indicate that crop plants fertilized with antibiotic-laden animal manure accumulate antibiotics; however, the molecular mechanisms of antibiotic entry and subcellular partitioning within plant cells remain unknown. Here, we report that mutations in the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) locus Multiple Antibiotic Resistance1 (MAR1) confer resistance, while MAR1 overexpression causes hypersensitivity to multiple aminoglycoside antibiotics. Additionally, yeast expressing MAR1 are hypersensitive to the aminoglycoside G418. MAR1 encodes a protein with 11 putative transmembrane domains with low similarity to ferroportin1 from Danio rerio. A MAR1:yellow fluorescent protein fusion localizes to the chloroplast, and chloroplasts from plants overexpressing MAR1 accumulate more of the aminoglycoside gentamicin, while mar1-1 mutant chloroplasts accumulate less than the wild type. MAR1 overexpression lines are slightly chlorotic, and chlorosis is rescued by exogenous iron. MAR1 expression is also down-regulated by low iron. These data suggest that MAR1 is a plastid transporter that is likely to be involved in cellular iron homeostasis and allows opportunistic entry of multiple antibiotics into the chloroplast.
!~RES~! mar1-1 was generated via ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS) mutagenesis and was found to be resistant to several aminoglycoside antibiotics, including kanamycin, streptomycin, gentamicin, amikacin, tobramycin, and apramycin (Fig. 1, A and B ). Interestingly, mar1-1 was not found to be resistant to the aminoglycosides hygromycin, G418, or paromomycin (Supplemental Figs. S1 and S2). These compounds, while structurally similar to other aminoglycosides, are distinct in that they inhibit both prokaryotic and eukaryotic protein synthesis (CITATION). No resistance was found to antibiotics of other classes, including spectinomycin (an aminocyclitol), tetracycline, chloramphenicol, and lincomycin (Fig. 1D). Each of these antibiotics target prokaryotic translational machinery but are structurally distinct from the aminoglycosides. [[FIGURE]] A backcross of mar1-1 to the wild type revealed that the mutation is nuclear and monogenic. The mutant locus was isolated via map-based cloning. A single nucleotide change (C to T) was found in the 10th exon of the locus At5g26820 (Fig. 2A ), which is annotated as having low similarity to ferroportin1 from Danio rerio. At5g26820 has been described as AtIREG3 based on sequence similarity to AtIREG1 and AtIREG2, two iron-regulated transporters in Arabidopsis (CITATION). More recently, it has been described as RTS3, and two mutations in the gene (rts3-1 and rts3-2; Fig. 2, A and B) were shown to confer kanamycin resistance at 40 mg/L (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Native expression of At5g26820 was able to complement the mutant mar1-1 (data not shown). Here, we will refer to At5g26820 as MAR1 since the gene name RTS3 does not accurately describe the functionalities we have uncovered for At5g26820. The single nucleotide change in mar1-1 leads to a single amino acid change (Ala to Val) at position 441 in the protein (A441V; Fig. 2B). This particular Ala residue lies in the middle of a putative transmembrane domain of the protein and is highly conserved among MAR1 homologs (Fig. 2C). As mentioned earlier, MAR1 has only two homologs in Arabidopsis, AtIREG1 (At2g38460) and AtIREG2 (At5g03570). However, there are three MAR1 homologs in rice (Oryza sativa; Os12g3570, Os05g04120, and Os06g36450) and two homologs in grape (Vitis vinifera; A5AS54 and A5BT51). MAR1 is more closely related to rice homologs that are predicted to be chloroplast localized (Os12g37530 and Os05g04120) and to its grape homolog that is predicted to function in secretory pathways (A5AS54; Fig. 2D; CITATION). This could indicate that the MAR1 protein may localize to an intracellular compartment, as opposed to the plasma membrane of the cell. We obtained two T-DNA insertion lines for MAR1 (Salk_034189 and Salk_009286) from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. We have designated Salk_034189 as mar1-2 and Salk_009286 as mar1-3. Both lines show an extreme reduction in MAR1 transcript, as measured by quantitative real-time PCR (Supplemental Fig. S3A), and both were found to be nearly phenotypically identical to mar1-1, with respect to antibiotic resistance (Fig. 1, A and C). Note that Salk lines are expected to be kanamycin and paromomycin resistant due to expression of nptII, but this does not lead to cross-resistance to other antibiotics, as illustrated by an unrelated kanamycin-resistant, nptII-expressing Salk insertion line (Salk_030942; Fig. 1, A and C). Since the T-DNA insertion lines mar1-2 and mar1-3 phenocopy the EMS mutant mar1-1, and all mutations confer multiple antibiotic resistance, we hypothesized that overexpressing MAR1 would lead to the opposite phenotype: hypersensitivity to multiple antibiotics. We expressed the MAR1 genomic locus from start to stop codon under control of the 35S promoter of Cauliflower mosaic virus in wild-type plants and found that it did confer a phenotype of hypersensitivity to both kanamycin and gentamicin, based on severe chlorosis and stunted growth of seedlings (Fig. 3 , A and B). MAR1 expression in two independent 35S overexpression lines was found to be at least 48-fold higher than the wild type (Supplemental Fig. S3B). [[FIGURE]] To further confirm that mutations in At5g26820 are responsible for the phenotype of mar1, we expressed 35S∷At5g26820(MAR1) in the mar1-1 background. Analysis of several independent transgenic lines revealed that this construct led to a reversal of the kanamycin resistance phenotype of mar1-1, i.e. mutant mar1-1 plants overexpressing MAR1 were found to be hypersensitive to kanamycin (Fig. 3C). Additionally, native expression of MAR1 in a mar1-2 background reverted the phenotype back to approximately wild-type levels of resistance (data not shown). The ARAMEMNON plant membrane protein database (CITATION) uses data from 17 individual programs to arrive at a consensus prediction for subcellular location. This consensus prediction method (CITATION) predicts that the MAR1 protein is targeted to the chloroplast. According to the ChloroP program (CITATION), the predicted chloroplast transit peptide of MAR1 includes the first 54 amino acids of the protein (Fig. 2B). A C-terminal yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) fusion to the putative transit peptide of MAR1 was transiently expressed in Arabidopsis protoplasts. Chloroplast transit peptides are known to effectively mediate transport across the chloroplast membrane (CITATION) so the expected localization of YFP fused to a transit peptide would be the stroma. This is what was observed in our experiment, based on distinct YFP colocalization with red (autofluorescent) chloroplasts (Fig. 4, F–H ). [[FIGURE]] C-terminal and N-terminal translational fusions between full-length MAR1 cDNA and YFP were also expressed. In C-terminal fusions, YFP fluorescence was clearly associated with chloroplasts (Fig. 4, J–L), and in N-terminal fusions, fluorescence was cytoplasmic (Fig. 4, O and P). The MAR1-YFP C-terminal translational fusion described above was also used to transform plants. Expression of this fusion protein was able to complement the resistance phenotype of mar1-2 (data not shown). Leaves of these plants were examined by confocal microscopy (Fig. 5, A–L ) and compared to untransformed controls (Fig. 5, M–O). YFP fluorescence in transformed lines colocalized with chloroplast autofluorescence (Fig. 5, C, F, I, and L) and appeared particularly enhanced at the periphery of these organelles, indicating that MAR1 may be associated with the chloroplast envelope. [[FIGURE]] To further test the function of the MAR1 putative transport protein, we expressed this protein in the yeast strain BY4700 under control of the strong PGK promoter. Both wild-type and mar1-1 mutant alleles were used for these experiments. BY4700 was used because it is only slightly sensitive to the aminoglycoside G418 (authors' observations). Yeast expressing wild-type MAR1 were found to be hypersensitive to G418 when compared to empty vector controls (Fig. 6A ). Interestingly, yeast expressing the mutant allele mar1-1 were also hypersensitive, but to a lesser extent than the MAR1 yeast (Fig. 6A). To eliminate the possibility that hypersensitivity was due to a general toxicity effect, the experiment was repeated using varying concentrations of cycloheximide, which is highly toxic to yeast. No growth differences were seen, at any cycloheximide concentration, among yeast expressing either MAR1, mar1-1, or empty vector controls (Fig. 6B). [[FIGURE]] To ensure that MAR1 protein was being properly expressed, and to determine its localization pattern in yeast, we also expressed a GFP-tagged version of MAR1. Yeast expressing MAR1-GFP were hypersensitive to G418, indicating functionality of the fusion protein (data not shown). While GFP alone was clearly cytoplasmic (Fig. 6D), GFP-tagged MAR1 localized to the yeast mitochondria (Fig. 6C), which is typical for chloroplast membrane proteins expressed in yeast (CITATION; CITATION). Since the aminoglycoside G418 acts on both prokaryotic and eukaryotic ribosomes (CITATION), G418 is likely to be inhibiting yeast growth in MAR1-expressing strains by accumulating in mitochondria. Since MAR1 was found to localize to the yeast mitochondria, we did an additional control using chloramphenicol, which is known to inhibit yeast mitochondrial translation (CITATION). We did not find resistance to chloramphenicol in mar1-1 or mar1-2 mutant plants (Fig. 1D); therefore, it is not likely to be a substrate for the MAR1 transporter. In support of this, we did not observe major growth differences between yeast lines expressing MAR1 (or mar1-1) and empty vector controls when grown for 48 h in the presence of 0.5, 1, or 2 mg/mL chloramphenicol (Supplemental Fig. S4). Since MAR1 appeared to be a chloroplast-localized transport protein, and its disruption and overexpression caused antibiotic resistance and hypersensitivity, respectively, we decided to test its functionality as a transporter for antibiotics. To accomplish this, we developed both a short-term uptake assay using isolated chloroplasts and a longer-term uptake assay using whole seedlings. For short-term uptake, isolated chloroplasts were exposed to high levels of antibiotic (12.5 mg/mL) for short periods of time (1 and 5 min; Fig. 7A ). For longer-term uptake, whole seedlings were exposed to lower levels of antibiotic (70 mg/L) for 2 d (Fig. 7D). Excess antibiotic was washed away, and chloroplasts were lysed to release their antibiotic content. Lysates were then spotted onto nitrocellulose in dot-blot fashion (Fig. 7C) along with gentamicin standards (Fig. 7B), and gentamicin was detected via anti-gentamicin antibody. This allowed for a simple yet quantitative method for measuring the gentamicin content of chloroplasts; each dot was analyzed using the integrated density function of ImageJ64 to determine a relative intensity value, which correlated positively with the amount of antibiotic in the lysate. [[FIGURE]] In short-term uptake experiments with isolated chloroplasts, it was found that chloroplasts from mar1-1 mutant plants accumulated less gentamicin than wild-type (Landsberg erecta [Ler]) controls, while chloroplasts from MAR1 overexpressors accumulated the most gentamicin (Fig. 7, A and C). This experiment was performed a total of three independent times with the same result. In uptake experiments using whole seedlings, it was found that chloroplasts from mar1-1 and mar1-3 mutant seedlings accumulated less gentamicin than the wild-type (Columbia-0 [Col-0]) control (Fig. 7D). Evidence from these experiments demonstrates the role of MAR1 as a chloroplast-associated transporter that is capable of importing aminoglycoside antibiotic. It is unlikely that evolutionary pressures would have selected for a means of entry for toxic antibiotics into plant chloroplasts. Therefore, we propose that MAR1 has a more conventional role in the plant, and the transport of antibiotics is an opportunistic effect. The expression pattern of MAR1 does not yield many clues as to its potential function. Promoter-reporter fusion experiments using MAR1∷GUS transgenic plants demonstrated that MAR1 is expressed throughout the plant body in young seedlings (Supplemental Fig. S5, A and B). In addition, MAR1 appears to be fairly evenly expressed in most tissue types based on AtGenExpress data (Supplemental Fig. S5C). Given its sequence similarity to ferroportin, it is possible that MAR1 could be involved in some aspect of iron transport. In an attempt to test this possibility, we expressed MAR1 cDNA in the yeast double mutant fet3fet4, which is defective in low and high affinity iron uptake (CITATION). We found that MAR1 expressed in vector pVV214 was unable to complement fet3fet4 on SD media ±5, 10, or 20 μm FeCl3 (data not shown). This result is probably not surprising, given MAR1's localization to the yeast mitochondria (Fig. 6D). A common symptom of iron deficiency in plants is chlorosis, since iron is essential for chlorophyll biosynthesis (CITATION). Interestingly, we observed a visible and quantifiable phenotype of chlorosis in 35S∷MAR1 seedlings when grown for 2 weeks on plain Murashige and Skoog (MS) media (Fig. 8B ) or MS media supplemented with 50 μm Fe-EDTA (Fig. 8A, first plate). Additionally, when 35S∷MAR1 plants were grown in soil, they appeared slightly more chlorotic than the wild type, both in leaves and stems. Chlorosis was especially prominent along the midvein and older areas of cauline leaves, which also displayed an altered leaf shape, pinched toward the tip, compared to Ler (Fig. 8D). Chlorosis of plate-grown seedlings persisted until media was supplemented with 300 μm Fe-EDTA (Fig. 8, A and C). Our results suggest that the overexpression of MAR1 creates an iron-limiting condition for the plant. [[FIGURE]] One of the MAR1 homologs in Arabidopsis, AtIREG2, was found to be up-regulated under iron deficiency (CITATION). With this in mind, we examined MAR1 for transcriptional changes under iron limitation and iron excess. Plants were grown in liquid culture for 14 d, and baseline tissue samples were taken before addition of either 600 μm Fe-EDTA (iron excess) or 300 μm ferrozine (iron limitation). We observed a 60% decrease in MAR1 expression after 4 d of growth under iron deficiency (Fig. 9A ), along with the expected up-regulation of Iron Regulated Transporter1 (IRT1; which encodes for a major high-affinity iron transporter) under similar conditions (CITATION). We also observed a down-regulation of MAR1 when plants were grown for 2 weeks on plates containing a lower concentration of ferrozine (100 μm; Fig. 9B). A subsequent increase in MAR1 transcription was not observed when iron levels were elevated for 4 d (Fig. 9C), despite the expected down-regulation of IRT1 under these conditions (Fig. 9C). Because the chlorosis of 35S∷MAR1 can be rescued by excess iron, and MAR1 is down-regulated under limiting iron conditions, we postulate that MAR1 may play a role in iron chelation, storage, or sequestration. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The original antibiotic resistant mutant, line E2-123 (mar1-1), was generated via EMS mutagenesis of line E2-6 (Ler background, antibiotic sensitive; CITATION). The E2-6 line contains a methylation-silenced nptII gene at an unknown location. The original mutagenesis and screen was performed to try to identify components of the DNA methylation pathway. However, the T-DNA containing the silenced nptII gene segregates away from the MAR1 locus. The original E2-123 (mar1-1) line was outcrossed to wild-type Ler one time, and one subsequent homozygous mar1-1 F2 progeny, without any T-DNA (verified by Southern-blot and PCR analysis), was used as the parent in the experiments presented here. Plants were grown either in a growth room at 21°C, ambient humidity, under constant fluorescent illumination or on Petri dishes in a Percival chamber under similar conditions. All constructs to be used in plant transformation experiments were transferred to Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 via electroporation. Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) plants were transformed by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation using the floral dip method (CITATION). Primary transformants were selected in soil or on MS plates using the herbicide Basta (1.5 μL/mL; AgrEVO). The progeny of at least three selfed, primary transformants were used for experiments. A total of 608 kanamycin-resistant F2 progeny from a cross of the mar1-1 mutant (F2 minus T-DNA as described above) to Col-0 and the mar1-1 and Col-0 parents were genotyped using microsatellite loci polymorphic between Col-0 and Ler. Resistant seedlings were selected after 2 weeks of growth on MS media plus kanamycin (25 mg/L). Genotype data were analyzed using MetaPhor agarose gels (Cambrex) and by fragment analysis using the Applied Biosystems 3730 genetic analyzer and GeneMapper software. Additional details are available in Supplemental Materials and Methods S1. All cloning was done using the Gateway system (Invitrogen). All attB-tailed PCR products were initially cloned into pDONR222 using BP Clonase and sequence verified before subcloning into various plant and yeast expression vectors (using LR Clonase) mentioned below. The MAR1 locus (At5g26820) was amplified by PCR (TripleMaster PCR system; Eppendorf) from Ler (wild-type) genomic DNA using attB-tailed gene specific primers (Supplemental Table S1). MAR1 was then subcloned into the plant overexpression vector pB7WG2 (CITATION) for subsequent Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of Col-0, Ler, and mar1-1 plants. At least three independent Basta-resistant transformed lines were isolated for analysis for each vector-genotype combination. MAR1 cDNA in vector pENTR/SD-DTOPO was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center stock center through The Arabidopsis Information Resource (www.arabidopsis.org, clone name: U16896). MAR1 cDNA was amplified by PCR from this vector using specific primers (Supplemental Table S1). MAR1 cDNA lacking a stop codon was subcloned into vector pH7YWG2 (CITATION) in frame to YFP for subsequent expression in Arabidopsis Col-0 protoplasts and mar1-2 plants. N-terminal fusions (35S∷YFP-MAR1) were constructed exactly as above, except that MAR1 cDNA was cloned into the vector pB7WGY2 (in frame with YFP) and the stop codon was retained. The first 162 nucleotides of MAR1 were amplified by PCR using specific primers (Supplemental Table S1). Vector pH7YWG2 (CITATION) was used for subsequent expression in Arabidopsis Col-0 protoplasts. Protoplasts were isolated from 20-d-old seedlings and transformed according to methods previously described (CITATION). Constructs used for transformation included 35S∷MAR1-YFP, 35S∷YFP-MAR1, 35S∷MAR1tp-YFP (all described above), and 35S∷YFP (pCL-eYFP-FL; a gift from Enamul Huq). Transformed protoplasts were allowed to incubate overnight under continuous light at 22°C prior to confocal microscopy. A Leica SP2 AOBS confocal laser scanning microscope was used for visualizing fluorescence images from Arabidopsis protoplasts and leaves. Excitation was at 514 nm, and the emission signal was collected between 525 and 590 nm for YFP fluorescence and between 622 and 700 nm for chlorophyll autofluorescence. Untransformed protoplasts and leaves were also examined as controls. T-DNA insertion alleles were identified from the Salk Institute Genomic Analysis Laboratory collection. mar1-2 carries a T-DNA insertion in the 11th exon of At5g26820 (Salk_034189, position 9436545 on chromosome V). mar1-3 carries a T-DNA insertion in the 9th exon of At5g26820 (Salk_009286, position 9436095 on chromosome V). Lines were confirmed homozygous by PCR and by segregation analysis on kanamycin. Titrations of the antibiotics kanamycin, gentamicin, streptomycin, tobramycin, amikacin, and apramycin were established to determine the concentration at which the greatest difference in resistance could be observed between the wild type and mutant mar1-1 when plated on MS media plus antibiotic. These concentrations were determined to be 25 mg/L kanamycin, 70 mg/L gentamicin, 75 mg/L streptomycin, 40 mg/L tobramycin, 100 mg/L amikacin, and 200 mg/L apramycin. Seeds of mutant lines mar1-1 and mar1-2 along with a corresponding wild-type line (Col × Ler, F4) and an unrelated kanamycin-resistant T-DNA insertion line (Salk_030942, which interrupts MYB5) were surface sterilized and plated onto MS media and MS plus antibiotic. After 48 h of vernalization, plates were moved to a 22°C incubator under constant light conditions for 14 d. Chlorophyll was extracted and quantified in triplicate according to methods described previously (CITATION). MAR1 and mar1-1 cDNAs were cloned into vector pVV214 (CITATION) via the Gateway method, and the Saccharomyces cerevisiae strains BY4700 (MATa ura3Δ0) and fet3fet4 (DEY 1453; MATα trp1 ura3 Δfet3∷LEU2 Δfet4∷HIS3; CITATION) were transformed with these constructs (or empty vectors) using standard methods (CITATION). The fet3fet4 strain was always maintained in dropout media containing 0.2 mm FeCl3 prior to testing for complementation on media supplemented with 0 to 50 μm FeCl3 or Fe-citrate. Eight individual clones from each line (described above) were selected from −URA dropout plates and PCR checked for the presence of the transgene. BY4700 transformed with pVV214 alone served as a control. Of the positive clones, three were selected and grown overnight at 30°C in 5 mL of −URA liquid dropout media. Cultures were then standardized to 0.01 optical density (λ600) before addition of various concentrations of G418 or cycloheximide (Fig. 6). After 48 h of growth at 30°C, OD600 was recorded for each culture. The experiment was carried out in triplicate. MAR1 cDNA (with stop codon removed) was cloned into vector pAG426GPD-ccdB-EGFP (Addgene plasmid 14204) via the Gateway method, and the yeast strain BY4700 was transformed as described above. pAG426GPD-ccdB-EGFP alone was used as a control. A mixed population of transformed and untransformed cells was incubated in a 500 nm solution of MitoTracker Red CMXRos (Invitrogen) for 20 min at room temperature. A Leica SP2 AOBS confocal laser scanning microscope was used for visualizing fluorescence images. Excitation was at 514 nm, and the emission signal was collected between 525 and 540 nm for GFP fluorescence and between 600 and 650 nm for MitoTracker Red. Intact chloroplasts were isolated basically according to previous methods (CITATION), with several modifications (CITATION) to ensure that chloroplasts were import competent (see Supplemental Materials and Methods S1). Chloroplasts were consistently determined to be >80% intact based on photoreduction of ferricyanide (Sigma Chloroplast Isolation Kit Technical Bulletin; Sigma-Aldrich). Chloroplasts were counted using a hemocytometer, and a standard number was used for each reaction (Fig. 7 legend). The uptake reaction buffer was HMS (50 mm HEPES-KOH [pH 8], 3 mm MgSO4, 0.3 m sorbitol; see Supplemental Materials and Methods S1) +10 mm carbonate +0.2% (w/v) BSA. Gentamicin was added to a final concentration of 12.5 mg/mL, and uptake reactions were carried out on a rotator in a Percival chamber under constant fluorescent illumination for given time periods (Fig. 7A). Negative controls were incubated in HMS uptake buffer without gentamicin. To stop the uptake reaction, tubes were spun at 1,000g for 2 min in a microcentrifuge, supernatant was decanted, and chloroplasts were washed with 500 μL HMS buffer. This was repeated for a total of three washes. Chloroplasts were then incubated in 150 μL CP lysis buffer (20 mm HEPES, pH 7.5, 5 mm KCl, 1.5 mm MgCl2, 10 mm dithiothreitol, 10% [v/v] glycerol, and 1% [w/v] polyvinylpyrrolidone) on ice for 1 h with occasional vortex. Supernatants were collected after centrifugation (3,000g for 5 min) and stored at −20°C until use in dot blot. Dot blots for antibiotic detection in chloroplast lysates were performed as follows: 2 μL of each lysate was spotted onto nitrocellulose membrane (pore size 0.2 μm) in triplicate (Fig. 7C), along with 2 μL of each of a set of standard gentamicin solutions (in CP lysis buffer) as positive controls (Fig. 6B). Spotted membranes were allowed to dry for 45 min before blocking with 1× phosphate-buffered saline (PBS), pH 7.4, + 0.05% (v/v) Tween 20 + 5% (w/v) nonfat dry milk. Blocking time was 1 h on a rotary shaker at room temperature. After the block, mouse anti-gentamicin antibody (AbCam) was applied (in blocking solution) at 1:1,000 dilution, and incubation was carried out at 4°C overnight. The membrane was then washed two times for 15 min each with PBS, three times for 15 min each with PBS + 0.05% (v/v) Tween 20, and one time for 15 min with PBS. Goat anti-mouse horseradish peroxidase-conjugated secondary antibody (Santa Cruz Biotechnology) was applied (in blocking solution) at a dilution of 1:5,000 and allowed to incubate for 1.5 h on a rotary shaker at room temperature. The above washes were then repeated. The membrane was allowed to incubate for 1 min in western Lighting Plus-ECL solution (Perkin-Elmer) before exposure to film (Kodak BIOMAX Light) for 10 s to 1 min. Images of developed film were analyzed using ImageJ64 (NIH). The image was inverted, and background was subtracted using a rolling ball radius between 60 to 80 pixels, depending on the blot (rolling ball radius should be equivalent to the size of the largest dot on the blot). The integrated density function was then used to measure the intensity of each dot. The average of three replicate dots (±sd) was graphed (Fig. 7A). Approximately 2,000 seeds were sterilized for each line and vernalized for 2 d at 4°C in 100 mL volumes of liquid MS growth media. Flasks were then moved to a shaker in a Percival chamber (22°C, continuous fluorescent light). On day 11, the media were changed to fresh liquid MS. On day 13, gentamicin was added to a final concentration of 70 mg/L. On day 15, media were decanted and seedlings were washed with 300 mL of double distilled water. Chloroplasts were isolated from seedlings exactly as described above, and 3 × 108 chloroplasts from each line were lysed. The lysis protocol was the same as above, and dot blots were also performed as above, except that lysates were diluted 1:30 before spotting. Seeds from Ler (wild type) were grown in Erlenmeyer flasks containing 200 mL liquid MS media supplemented with 1% Suc at 21°C under continuous white light on a shaker set to constant rpm in a Percival growth chamber. After 14 d of growth, several whole seedlings (roots and shoots) were removed, and RNA was extracted using the QIAgen RNeasy plant mini kit with on-column DNase treatment. Media were then supplemented with either 600 μm Fe-EDTA (iron excess) or 300 μm ferrozine (iron restriction), and remaining seedlings were allowed to incubate for a further 4 d. On day 4, RNA was extracted from remaining whole seedlings as above. RNA (4 μg) from each sample was used in 40-μL reverse transcription reactions containing 250 nm actin, IRT1, and MAR1 gene-specific reverse primers. For each target (actin, IRT1, and MAR1), five PCR reactions containing 400 nm primers and 2 μL of first-strand cDNA as a template were performed using SYBR green master mix (Applied Biosystems) and a spectrofluorometric thermal cycler (Applied Biosystems 7900HT). The comparative cycle threshold method was used to analyze the results (User Bulletin 2; Applied Biosystems PRISM sequence detection system). For gel-based reverse transcription-PCR, plants were grown for 2 weeks on plates containing 0 or 100 μm ferrozine. On day 14, whole seedling tissue (root and shoot) was harvested and RNA extracted as above. Two micrograms of RNA was used as a template for each cDNA reaction (containing both MAR1 and APRT primers), and equal amounts of cDNA reactions were loaded on a gel. Products were visualized with UV and ethidium bromide. Sequence data for MAR1 can be found in the GenBank data library under accession number At5g26820. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. mar1-1 is not resistant to the aminoglycosides hygromycin and G418. Supplemental Figure S2. mar1-1 is not resistant to the aminoglycoside paromomycin. Supplemental Figure S3. Levels of MAR1 expression in T-DNA lines (mar1-2 and mar1-3) and 35S∷MAR1 overexpression lines (F2D and F2Y). Supplemental Figure S4. Expression of MAR1 in yeast does not affect sensitivity to chloramphenicol. Supplemental Figure S5. MAR1 expression pattern. Supplemental Table S1. Primer sequences. Supplemental Materials and Methods S1. Additional materials and methods.
