!~ABS~! Comparative proteomic analysis of chloroplast by 2‐DE has received significant attention in recent years. However, the complication of membrane systems in chloroplast made it challenging to elucidate entire chloroplast proteome by 2‐DE. Here, we developed an efficient method for extracting chloroplast proteins, and produced excellent 2‐DE profiles from both Arabidopsis thaliana and Salicornia europaea. Comparison of this method with another two protocols for the extraction of A. thaliana chloroplast proteins showed that our method obtained higher protein yields and produced more protein spots on both pH 3–10 and 4–7 2‐DE gels. Moreover, this method recovered more proteins in the basic and high Mr regions, thereby offering the best extraction of chloroplast proteins. Identification of 15 specific chloroplast‐targeted proteins on our gels by MALDI‐TOF MS revealed that this method was compatible with MS, and recovered more chloroplast membrane proteins than the commonly used methods. This protocol is expected to have a wide application in future chloroplast proteomic analysis. 
!~RES~! A principal criterion for organelle proteome is the purity of the compartment to be analyzed. Indeed, the subcellular proteome integrity largely depended on how we can purify the isolated compartment away from other cellular contaminants. In this study, the chloroplasts were isolated from shoots of S. europaea according to a modified version as described by Kleffmann and et al CITATION. The integrity of the isolated chloroplasts was subsequently analyzed by a microscope. The S. europaea chloroplast showed spindle shape with an average diameter of approximately 4 μm. Almost no broken chloroplasts were observed (Fig. 1A). Contamination with non‐chloroplast proteins was monitored by measuring the activity of catalase enzyme as an indirect cytosolic marker in the chloroplast fraction. The crude extracts showed high catalase activity, whereas the purified chloroplast fraction did not show any significant catalase activity (Fig. 1B). These results, altogether, suggest that the isolated chloroplasts were highly purified and had no appreciable level of other cytoplasmic contamination.  [[FIGURE]] Protein sample preparation is a critical step for 2‐DE. Due to the high content of membrane proteins that are hard to solubilize, it is difficult to study entire chloroplast proteome by global approaches CITATION. Until now, there has been no specifically devised method to isolate total proteins from chloroplasts. Here, we devised a chloroplast total protein extraction method (Protocol A) optimized from the BPP method CITATION, with the following modifications: (i) Optimizing the buffer/sample ratio. In BPP method, 1 g plant material was resuspended in 3 mL extraction buffer. However, if the buffer/sample ratio in BPP method was applied to chloroplasts, the protein yield will reduce sharply because of insufficient extraction (data not shown). In our cases, 30 g of S. europaea shoots could yield 0.182±0.028 g fresh weight (FW) purified chloroplasts. About 0.15 g FW chloroplasts were resuspended in 1 mL extraction buffer and produced 1.26±0.12 mg chloroplast proteins. (ii) Vortexing the chloroplast sample in the extraction buffer instead of grinding to avoid sample loss. (iii) Intensifying the rinsing step of the protein pellets with ice‐cold acetone to completely remove the chlorophyll, which is normally at very high concentration in chloroplast samples.  To better evaluate our method, we further compared two commonly used protocols for total chloroplast proteins preparation, named as protocol B CITATION and protocol C CITATION, with our method (protocol A) by 1‐D PAGE. In protocol B, chloroplast proteins were directly extracted by CHAPS buffer CITATION, whereas in protocol C, chloroplast proteins were prepared by TCA precipitation followed by washing with acetone CITATION. On the 1‐D gel, protein bands were distinct at both higher and lower Mr regions of the gels for all protocols (Fig. 2). However, several protein bands, as indicated by a rectangle box, were less visible in protocol B compared with protocol A, which indicated insufficient protein extraction of protocol B. It was observed that protocol C showed minor smearing at the high Mr region, indicating interfering substances in these proteins, whereas protocol A produced protein bands with clear background (Fig. 2). However, these extraction methods were inadequate to be evaluated just by 1‐D PAGE, which need to be further tested by 2‐DE. Nevertheless, these above results revealed to some extent that our method was more efficient for chloroplast proteins isolation.  [[FIGURE]] The proteins extracted by our method were then applied to 2‐DE using pH 4–7 IPG strips for further analysis. Resolved chloroplast proteins were well displayed on 2‐DE gels. Individual protein spots were easily identified with a broad distribution on both dimensions and showed little streaks on both horizontal and vertical dimensions (Fig. 3). Computational analysis of the CBB‐stained gels revealed 940±33 repeatable protein spots for chloroplasts of S. europaea. These results proved that our method could efficiently extract high‐quality chloroplast proteins for 2‐DE.  [[FIGURE]] The above results revealed that our method could efficiently extract high‐quality chloroplast proteins from S. europaea. This method was further applied to the model plant A. thaliana to confirm its efficiency. As a model plant with so much information, A. thaliana drew wide attentions on proteomic research, including chloroplast proteomics at different levels CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION. In this study, we isolated the chloroplasts from A. thaliana and determined the purity by measuring the activity of catalase (Fig. 1C). Then, we used the three protocols (protocols A, protocols B, and protocols C) to better evaluate which one is suitable for chloroplast proteins extraction. At first, we compared the protein yields for chloroplasts of A. thaliana by the three protocols, as listed in Table 1. The protein yield was defined as the protein quantity extracted from chloroplasts that were isolated from 10 g of A. thaliana leaves (FW). It is especially important to have high protein yield when the study material is limited, such as chloroplasts that have to be isolated from large amount of green plant tissues. Protocol A showed the highest performance, which produced about 2.19±0.03 mg chloroplast protein from 10 g fresh leaves (Table 1). Interestingly, the results demonstrated that our phenol‐based method produced higher protein yield than that generated using TCA methods when extracting chloroplast proteins, which was consistent with the previous studies taking plant tissues as materials CITATION-CITATION, CITATION.  To further compare their performance, equal amounts of proteins extracted by different procedures were applied to 2‐DE analysis with the pH 3–10 and 4–7 strips, respectively. After that, the total number of protein spots was analyzed, which is listed in Table 1. Much more protein spots (1082±61 on the pH 3–10 gels; 805±13 on the pH 4–7 gels) were produced by our protocol. This result revealed that the high protein yield of protocol A might be attributed to efficient extraction of more kinds of proteins, except for increasing solubility of certain proteins. Additionally, we compared the global 2‐DE patterns of the proteins extracted by different protocols. For protocol A, B, and C, the global 2‐DE patterns were similar to each other because of the same origin of protein samples. However, among the three protocols, protocol B gave the poorest performance, with less spot number, protein aggregation on the pH 3–10 gels, and horizontal streaking on the pH 4–7 gels (Fig. 4A) indicating insufficient IEF for the protein sample, which might be due to interfering substances. In fact, protocol B utilized a zwitterionic detergent, CHAPS, which could increase solubility of membrane proteins for chloroplast proteins extraction. However, the direct use of CHAPS for protein extraction could not efficiently disassociate lipid–protein interaction. Furthermore, pigments such as chlorophyll, which were at high levels in chloroplasts, could not be completely removed in protocol B, thus disrupting IEF process. Protocol A and C showed minor horizontal streaks on the pH 3–10 and pH 4–7 gels, indicating that the IEF process was complete. Nevertheless, substantial qualitative differences were observed in the spot patterns among gels of the three protocols as highlighted by rectangular boxes in Fig. 4. As seen in the selected area on pH 3–10 gels, protocol A generated gels showing more protein spots in the basic region than those obtained by protocols B and C. It is generally believed that many membrane proteins are hydrophobic and located within the basic pI range of the 2‐DE patterns CITATION, CITATION. Certain loss of hydrophobic proteins on 2‐DE gels may also be attributed to their tendency to aggregate and precipitate in aqueous media. In our phenol‐based extraction method, the high recovery of basic region proteins might be attributed to the following factors. For one thing, the aqueous resuspension buffer that was directly added to chloroplast pellet lysed the chloroplasts efficiently and disassociated the membrane protein by breaking lipid–protein interactions. For another, phenol, which serves as a strong solvent for proteins, lipids, and pigments, was added and can efficiently dissolve membrane proteins. Finally, the proteins in phenol were precipitated by ammonium sulfate‐saturated methanol, whereas both lipids and pigments, which can strongly interfere with IEF, were not precipitated CITATION. Furthermore, as shown in Fig. 4, protocol A generated pH 4–7 gels that displayed more spots in the high Mr than those produced by protocols B and C. Similar results were also observed in former studies on plant tissues when comparing the protein extraction efficiency between phenol‐based method and TCA/acetone precipitation method CITATION, CITATION. The less protein spots with high Mr extracted by protocol C might be due to the difficulty for TCA‐precipitated proteins to redissolve, as conformed by several studies CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION. However, several low‐abundance protein spots of low Mr on the gels generated by protocol A were observed to be high abundance for protocol C, which were consistent with the previous findings indicating that some large proteins were lost while some small proteins were enriched in the TCA extracts CITATION, CITATION. Taken together, these results allowed us to conclude that our phenol‐based method could extract high‐quality chloroplast proteins for A. thaliana as well as S. europaea.  [[FIGURE]] Proteins extracted from the chloroplast of A. thaliana by our method revealed that many additional protein spots were visible on 2‐DE gel compared with protocols B and C. To get more insight into the specific individual proteins presented, 15 specific protein spots, indicated by arrows and marked with numbers in the magnified regions, were excised (Fig. 4B), in‐gel digested by trypsin, and analyzed by MALDI‐TOF MS. All of these proteins were successfully identified and their detailed information is summarized in Table 2.  [[FIGURE]] The identified proteins were first analyzed by the prediction tool TargetP to predict their subcellular location CITATION. All the proteins were predicted to localize to chloroplast or encode by chloroplast chromosome. However, TargetP is just a bioinformatics tool that might fail to identify real chloroplast proteins CITATION. Furthermore, we searched PPDB, which provides the most comprehensive experimentally chloroplast proteome so far CITATION. As expected, every identified protein was found to be incorporated in the A. thaliana plastid proteome database, which confirmed all the identified proteins as chloroplast‐localized and, in turn, further verified the purity of isolated chloroplasts. In order to investigate solubilization abilities of the identified proteins, we calculated the GRAVY score that reflect the overall hydropathicity of a protein sequence CITATION, which ranged from −0.772 to −0.150. Then, we applied TMHMM to predict the number of transmembrane domains of the proteins CITATION, which could serve as a supplemental tool for GRAVY score to protein hydropathicity prediction. In total, two proteins, VAR2 (FtsH protease 2) and protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase C (PORC), representing three spots on the gel, which bear relatively high GRAVY scores, were positively predicted to have one transmembrane domain. To better understand the solubilization nature of the proteins, we further searched the PPDB and TAIR (http://www.arabidopsis.org) for subcellular location of identified proteins based on previously experimental data. Among the identified nine proteins that represent 15 protein spots on the gels, VAR2 (FtsH protease 2) was found to be thylakoid integral membrane proteins, whereas geranylgeranyl reductase, protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase B, PORC, and PSB29 (Thylakoid formation 1) were experimentally proved to be membrane peripheral proteins, which may sometimes also be detected in the plastid stroma or lumen. The above results proved that our method could extract membrane proteins from chloroplast at a relatively high efficiency.  All the chosen proteins were successfully identified, which indicated that our protein extract method was compatible with MS analysis. Moreover, all the identified proteins had been proven to be chloroplast‐localized by TargetP and previously documented experimental results in PPDB. As was expected, among the nine protein spots selected in the basic region of the pH 3–10 gels, eight spots were identified as membrane proteins and one as a ribosomal protein. This result was consistent with our notion that the method could produce more membrane proteins of chloroplast in addition to the general extracted proteins.  It was worth noting that four groups of spots, which share the same Mr but different pIs, were identified as the same protein (spots 1, 2, and 3 as geranylgeranyl reductase; spots 6, 7, and 8 as PSB29; spots 10 and 11 as LOX2; spots 14 and 15 as VAR2). It is well known that PTM cause large change in pI, which made the protein to migrate differently in either or both dimensions CITATION. Hence, we may cautiously deduce that these proteins are isoforms, which are caused by PTM.  Very recently, a large‐scale analysis of A. thaliana chloroplast proteins by nano LC‐Q‐TOF and nano LC‐LTQ‐Orbitrap MS identified 1325 proteins, which provided the most comprehensive chloroplast proteome analysis to date CITATION. These identified proteins are far beyond the coverage of 2‐DE gel, which has limitations to display low‐abundant proteins. However, 2‐DE coupled MS would still be a powerful tool for chloroplast proteomic analysis, not only because the abundance change of one protein could easily be detected by monitoring the variation of %vol, especially when we need to do comparative proteomic research, but also as it can be a better choice for detecting PTM proteins that display similar Mr or pI on 2‐DE gel. 
!~MM~! Seeds of S. europaea, collected from coastal areas in Dafeng City, Jiangsu Province of China, were sown on vermiculite damped with tap water. After germination, seedlings were grown in a greenhouse maintained at a thermo period of 25/20°C, photoperiod 16 h, and a relative humidity 50±10%. Seedlings were irrigated weekly with half‐strength Hoagland nutrient solution. Thirty days after sowing, these plants were then watered in the morning with half‐strength Hoagland solution containing 200 mM NaCl with 3‐day intervals to maintain their optimal growth. Fifty days later, the plants were harvested for chloroplast isolation.  Seeds of A. thaliana ecotype Columbia were sown on soil pot, and grown in fully automated growth chambers with a 16/8 h light/dark cycle at 23°C in 70% humidity. The seedlings were watered at 3‐day intervals. Seven weeks after sowing, leaves of these seedlings were harvested for chloroplast isolation.  Acrylamide, bisacrylamide, polyvinylpolypyrrolidone, standard molecular weight, and carrier ampholyte were purchased from Sigma (St. Louis, MO, USA). SDS, TEMED, ammonium sulfate, β‐mercaptoethanol, sorbitol, and DTT were from Amresco (Solon, OH, USA), and all other chemicals were from GE Healthcare (Uppsala, Sweden). Double‐distilled water was used to prepare all solutions. The light microscope was from Leica (Wetzlar, Germany). Ettan IPGPhor and Ettan DALT System were purchased from GE Healthcare. The gels were scanned by UMAX PowerLook 2100XL (Willich, Germany). The centrifugation was carried out in Sorvall Biofuge Stratos (Sorvall, NY, USA).  Chloroplasts were isolated from A. thaliana and S. europaea following a modified protocol described by Kleffmann et al. CITATION. Each isolation step was performed at 4°C. Twenty grams of S. europaea shoots and 10 g of A. thaliana leaves were harvested and homogenized with mortar and pistil in extraction buffer containing 0.3 M sorbitol, 1 mM MgCl2, 50 mM HEPES/KOH (pH 7.8), 2 mM EDTA, 0.04% β‐mercaptoethanol, and 0.1% polyvinylpolypyrrolidone. The homogenate was filtered through eight layers of muslin. Homogenization and filtration were repeated twice. After that, the suspension containing chloroplasts was sedimented by centrifugation at 4°C, 1500×g for 10 min. Subsequently, the pellets containing the chloroplasts were carefully resuspended in 4 mL isolation buffer containing 0.3 M sorbitol, 1 mM MgCl2, 50 mM HEPES/KOH (pH 7.8), and 2 mM EDTA. The above resuspended material was then loaded on top of a Percoll step gradient developed with 4 mL of 10%, 3 mL of 30%, and 2 mL of 50% Percoll in isolation buffer and centrifuged at 8000×g for 20 min. Intact chloroplasts were collected from the interphase between 30 and 50% Percoll, washed twice with isolation buffer, and then directly applied to protein extraction or stored at −80°C. The purified chloroplasts were visualized under a Leica DMLN light microscope (Leica).  The catalase enzyme assay was performed by following the method described by Pandey and co‐workers CITATION. In brief, the soluble proteins of the crude extracts and the chloroplasts were extracted by 50 mM potassium phosphate buffer (pH 7.5). The protein concentrations were then determined by following the Bradford method CITATION using BSA as standard. The reaction mixture was prepared by adding 30 μL of protein extract containing equal amount of 10 μg proteins to 960 μL of 50 mM potassium phosphate buffer (pH 7.5). The reaction was started by addition of 10 μL of H2O2 (3% v/v), and the decrease in absorbance at 240 nm was followed for 5 min. Baseline correction was carried out by subtracting the absorbance taken without addition of H2O2. The assay was done in triplicate and the absorbance values were plotted against time.  The chloroplast protein extraction procedure was modified from the BPP method CITATION. In short, 1.5 mL resuspension buffer containing 100 mM Tris, 100 mM EDTA, 50 mM borax, 50 mM vitamin C, 1% Triton X‐100, 2% β‐mercaptoethanol, and 30% sucrose was directly added to the chloroplast pellets purified from 10 g plant materials. After the sample was vortexed in resuspension buffer for 5 min at room temperature, an equal volume of Tris‐saturated phenol (pH 8.0) was added and then the mixture was further vortexed for 10 min. After centrifugation (4°C, 15 min, 15 000×g), the upper phenol phase was transferred to a new centrifuge tube. Proteins were precipitated by adding five volumes of ammonium sulfate‐saturated methanol and incubated at −20°C for at least 6 h. After centrifugation (4°C, 15 min, 15 000×g), the protein pellets were resuspended and rinsed with ice‐cold methanol once, followed by ice‐cold acetone three times, after each washing, protein pellets were centrifuged at 15 000×g for 5 min at 4°C, and then the supernatant was carefully decanted. Finally, the washed pellets were air‐dried and ready for use.  Two other protocols for extracting chloroplast proteins were compared with the above method.  Protocol B was described by Phee et al. CITATION, with minor modifications. In brief, 1 mL solubilization buffer (50 mM HEPES/KOH, pH 7.9, 2% CHAPS, and 1 mM PMSF) was added to the frozen chloroplast pellets purified from 10 g of A. thaliana leaves. Then, the mixture was vortexed for at least 5 min and incubated on ice for 2 h followed by centrifugation. After that, four volumes of 100% acetone were added into the supernatant to precipitate proteins. The protein pellets were resuspended and rinsed with ice‐cold acetone. Finally, the washed pellets were air‐dried and ready for use.  Protocol C was described by Lonosky et al. CITATION. In short, chloroplast pellets extracted from 10 g of A. thaliana leaves were suspended in 4 mL resuspension buffer (20 mM MOPS, 50 mM EDTA, and 1 mM PMSF, pH 7.0), and proteins were precipitated using 10% w/v trichloroacetic acid and then washed twice with cold acetone. Samples were air‐dried and ready for use.  The protein pellets were resuspended with the lysis buffer (7 M urea, 2 M thiourea, 2% CHAPS, 13 mM DTT, 1.7% PMSF, 1% IPG buffer, and pH 4–7 or 3–10), and vortexed 30 s with 30‐min intervals during the 2‐h incubation at room temperature. After centrifugation at 21°C, 20 000×g for 30 min, protein concentration was determined following the Bradford method CITATION. BSA was used as the standard. The calibration curve was constructed using BSA solution with a concentration from 1.0 to 10.0 mg/mL.  The sample containing about 700 and 1000 μg total proteins was subsequently loaded onto an IPG strip holder with 24 cm, pH 4–7 and 3–10, linear gradient IPG strips (GE Healthcare), respectively, and rehydrated for 24 h at room temperature. Then, focusing was performed on the IPGphor apparatus under the following conditions: 100 V for 2 h, 300 V for 1 h, 500 V for 1 h, 1000 V for 1 h, a gradient to 8000 V for 2 h, and 8000 V up to 80 000 Vh for the pH 4–7 strips and 100 000 Vh for the pH 3–10 strips. After IEF, these strips were equilibrated with equilibration solution (50 mM Tris, pH 8.8, 6 M urea, 30% glycerol, 2% SDS, 0.002% bromophenol blue) containing 1% DTT for 15 min, and subsequently with equilibration solution containing 4% iodoacetamide for another 15 min. The separation of proteins in the second dimension was performed on an Ettan DALT System: 7 W for 45 min and 18 W for 6 h for every strip at a constant temperature of 16°C.  Followed by the second‐dimensional electrophoresis, the gels were visualized by a modified CBB staining protocol CITATION. The gels were fixed for 1 h in a fixing solution (10% v/v acetic acid, 10% v/v methanol, and 40% v/v ethanol), and then put into the sensitization solution (1% acetic acid, 10% w/v ammonium sulfate) and stirred for an additional 2 h. After that, the gels were placed into staining solution (5% acetic acid, 45% ethanol, 0.125% w/v CBB R‐250) and stirred for more than 4 h. For destaining, the gels were transferred to solution I (5% acetic acid and 40% ethanol) and stirred for 1 h, and then into the solution II (3% acetic acid and 30% ethanol) until the background was clear. The gels were scanned by UMAX PowerLook 2100XL (Willich, Germany) at a resolution of 300 dpi and 16‐bit grayscale pixel depth, and image analysis was performed with Image Master 2D Platinum Software Version 5.0 (GE Healthcare) following user's manual. The protein spots were quantified using the percentage of spot volume (%vol) criterion.  All different selected spots were manually excised from the 2‐DE gels of A. thaliana chloroplast proteins. In‐gel digestion and MS acquisition were performed as described previously CITATION. The PMFs were searched against the NCBInr (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/) protein databases using the MASCOT Version 2.1 search engine (http://www.matrixscience.com, Matrix Science). The taxonomic category was A. thaliana. The identification was based on the combination of a MASCOT score higher than 60 (threshold), maximum peptide coverage, and additional experimental pI and Mr of the protein spots on the gels.  Predictions for protein subcellular locations were realized by using the TargetP 1.1 software CITATION (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/). Predictions for membrane spanning regions were realized by using the transmembrane hidden Markov model (TMHMM) 2.0 software CITATION (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TMHMM). The overall hydropathicity of a protein sequence was reflected by grand average of hydropathicity index (GRAVY) CITATION (http://www.bioinformatics.org/sms2/protein_gravy.html). The experimental chloroplast proteome data including curated subcellular localizations were obtained from the plant proteome database (PPDB) CITATION (http://ppdb.tc.cornell.edu). 
