!~ABS~! Plant mitochondria play central roles in cellular energy production, metabolism and stress responses. Recent phosphoproteomic studies in mammalian and yeast mitochondria have presented evidence indicating that protein phosphorylation is a likely regulatory mechanism across a broad range of important mitochondrial processes. This study investigated protein phosphorylation in purified mitochondria from cell suspensions of the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana using affinity enrichment and proteomic tools. Eighteen putative phosphoproteins consisting of mitochondrial metabolic enzymes, HSPs, a protease and several proteins of unknown function were detected on 2‐DE separations of Arabidopsis mitochondrial proteins and affinity‐enriched phosphoproteins using the Pro‐Q Diamond phospho‐specific in‐gel dye. Comparisons with mitochondrial phosphoproteomes of yeast and mouse indicate that these three species share few validated phosphoproteins. Phosphorylation sites for seven of the eighteen mitochondrial proteins were characterized by titanium dioxide enrichment and MS/MS. In the process, 71 phosphopeptides from Arabidopsis proteins which are not present in mitochondria but found as contaminants in various types of mitochondrial preparations were also identified, indicating the low level of phosphorylation of mitochondrial components compared with other cellular components in Arabidopsis. Information gained from this study provides a better understanding of protein phosphorylation at both the subcellular and the cellular level in Arabidopsis. 
!~RES~! Previous reports of mitochondrial phosphorylation had utilized the incorporation of 32P through the incubation of [γ32P]ATP with isolated mitochondrial samples CITATION, CITATION-CITATION. Although this technique is unable to provide an assessment of constitutive phosphorylation levels, it can provide information on inducible phosphorylation events. Mitochondrial protein samples were incubated with [γ32P]ATP and directly compared with samples incubated with non‐radioactive ATP and stained with Pro‐Q Diamond after separation by 1‐D PAGE (Fig. 1). A similar pattern was observed with and without ATP except for the signal intensity of a ∼40 kDa mitochondrial protein band, which was markedly increased after incubation with ATP. The identity of the ∼40 kDa protein is likely the E1α; a previously characterized phosphoprotein whose phosphorylation state is induced under high ATP levels CITATION, CITATION, CITATION-CITATION. Based on these observations, additional experiments excluded the incubation step with exogenous ATP so that the basal level of in vivo phosphorylation in plant mitochondria could be fully assessed.  [[FIGURE]] To unambiguously identify proteins that were differentially stained by Pro‐Q Diamond on 1‐D PAGE, mitochondrial samples were analyzed in more detail using 2‐DE. Mitochondrial proteins were separated by 2‐DE gels and stained with Pro‐Q Diamond followed by counter staining with colloidal Coomassie (Fig. 2). Two further mitochondrial isolations were undertaken and analyzed by 2‐DE as replicate experiments (Supporting Information Fig. 1). Overall the 2‐DE pattern of replicate mitochondrial samples was similar with 98% of the most 50 abundant proteins present on the three replicates. Some intensity differences were apparent between the most abundant proteins, but the pattern is consistent with previous 2‐DE surveys of Arabidopsis mitochondria from cell culture CITATION, CITATION.  [[FIGURE]] A comparison of Pro‐Q Diamond stained proteins with their colloidal Coomassie‐stained profile indicated minimal Pro‐Q Diamond staining of abundant mitochondrial proteins. Proteins that could be easily identified on the counter‐stained colloidal Coomassie gels were analyzed using LC‐MS/MS. A total of eight spots were selected whose Pro‐Q Diamond signal was discrete and could be unambiguously mapped to their colloidal Coomassie signals. Although a number of proteins produced a diffuse Pro‐Q Diamond signal many were disregarded due to lack of staining intensity, inconsistent identifications or contamination when examined by LC‐MS/MS over replicates (Supporting Information Fig. 1). A total of eleven proteins were identified by LC‐MS/MS (Table 1). This set included the previously characterized plant mitochondrial phosphoproteins only, the two isoforms of the E1α (spots 3 and 4) and the FDH (spot 3). Although the energy production machinery represents some of the most abundant proteins within the mitochondrion, only two components were identified as potential phosphoproteins namely two subunits of succinate dehydrogenase (SDH), subunit 1 (spot 1) and subunit 5 (spot 7). Both the α and the β forms of glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH) (spot 4) were identified as well as a group of functionally undetermined mitochondrial proteins, a mitochondrial acid matrix (MAM33) protein (spot 8), a stomatin‐like protein (spot 2), a GRPE co‐chaperone (spot 5) and an unknown protein (spot 6). All eleven proteins have been previously identified in highly purified mitochondria except for the GRPE co‐chaperone (At4g26780.1) and the unknown protein (At3g18240.1), although both are strongly predicted to be localized to the mitochondrion by multiple targeting prediction programs (data not shown). It should be noted that the SDH subunit 1 and the MAM33 protein were only found to stain by Pro‐Q Diamond on two of the three replicates (Supporting Information Fig. 1).  To detect lower abundant mitochondrial phosphoproteins, enrichment strategies prior to separation by 2‐DE were employed. Three different phosphoprotein enrichment methods were assessed; two were commercially available phosphoprotein techniques from Qiagen and Invitrogen and the third used MOAC CITATION. The three enrichment methods were analyzed by 1‐D PAGE and stained with Pro‐Q Diamond and then with colloidal Coomassie (Fig. 3). The eluted protein fractions for all three enrichment methods showed enhanced Pro‐Q Diamond staining for a number of protein bands when compared with the total mitochondrial protein sample. Although the Pro‐Q Diamond‐staining patterns were similar between the three enriched fractions, the Qiagen fraction displayed a colloidal Coomassie‐banding pattern that appeared different to the mitochondrial sample. In contrast, the total protein stain‐banding patterns of both the Invitrogen and MOAC samples appeared to more closely resemble the starting mitochondrial protein sample (Fig. 3A). To assess the most abundant proteins from each method, LC‐MS/MS was undertaken on each of the enriched fractions. The emPAI values produced by MASCOT MS interrogation software were used to estimate the abundance of major proteins in each sample (Supporting Information Table 3). Analysis of these sets indicated that all three methods had maintained a number of phosphoproteins previously identified by 2‐DE and Pro‐Q Diamond (Table 1) namely the Qiagen kit enriched SDH1, LON1, HSP90, E1α and MAM33, whereas the Invitrogen kit enriched SDH1 and E1α and MOAC enriched GRPE, E1α, FDH, GDH and HSP90. Although both the Qiagen and MOAC methods provided the greatest range of proteins, the MOAC method produced a relatively poor yield from Arabidopsis mitochondrial samples (typically 10 μg of eluted proteins per milligram of starting protein), consequently the Qiagen technique was the selected strategy for further detailed phosphoprotein enrichment.  [[FIGURE]] Samples from three replicate Arabidopsis mitochondrial isolations were processed using the Qiagen phosphoprotein purification system. Affinity‐enriched proteins were separated by 2‐DE and stained with Pro‐Q Diamond and counter stained with colloidal Coomassie (Fig. 4). Fluorescence imaging showed a greater number of protein spots stained by Pro‐Q Diamond when compared with corresponding spots on 2‐DE separations of whole mitochondrial proteins (Fig. 2). A comparison of the three replicates identified a number of proteins that were differentially stained by Pro‐Q Diamond. Although many of these were low abundant or identified as non‐mitochondrial proteins (Supporting Information Fig. 2) a total of nine spots (eleven proteins) were identified by LC‐MS/MS as mitochondrial (Table 2). Newly identified phosphoproteins that were enriched included a HSP90 (spot 2), the LON1 protease (spot 1) and two isoforms of the glycine‐rich RNA‐binding protein (spots 4 and 5). Phosphoproteins that had been significantly enriched and had also been previously identified using whole mitochondrial samples included MAM33 proteins (spot 7) and an isoform (spot 6), the unknown protein and an isoform (spot 3).  [[FIGURE]] Since the lengthy mitochondrial isolation process may have resulted in reduced phosphorylation, different purification methods were employed and analyzed by titanium dioxide (TiO2) chromatography material Titansphere (GL Science). Complex lysates comprising mitochondrial proteins were prepared as follows: (i) highly purified mitochondrial samples employing two gradients (as used for 2‐DE) with no phosphatase inhibitors, (ii) enriched mitochondrial samples employing one gradient and phosphatase inhibitors and (iii) high‐speed organelle pellets rapidly isolated with phosphatase inhibitors. A total of 1 mg protein was used with Titansphere (TiO2) and eluates analyzed using LC‐MS/MS. Double enrichment strategies employing initial phosphoprotein enrichments used 1–2 mg mitochondria (highly purified) and were processed using Qiagen, Invitrogen or MOAC procedures and eluates analyzed by Titansphere (TiO2) and LC‐MS/MS.  Although a total of 76 distinct phosphopeptides were identified utilizing these approaches (Supporting Information Table 4), only five were derived from known Arabidopsis mitochondrial proteins (Table 3). This included a phosphopeptide from the E1α (558.8867 m/z: YHGH(pS)MSDPGSTYR) enriched from lysates and 2‐DE, a phosphopeptide from HSP90 (716.2532 m/z: EI(pS)DDEEEEEK) enriched from high‐purity lysates, a phosphopeptide from the LON1 protease (666.7560 m/z: AVE(pS)DSEVSDSK) enriched from high‐purity lysates, a phosphopeptide from the mitochondrial glycoprotein MAM33 (1103.8093 m/z: VIDSEINSALQSDNID(pS)DEE(oxM)TPGSFPFR) identified through the double enrichment strategy (Qiagen) and high‐purity lysates and a phosphopeptide from a stomatin‐like protein (891.0221 m/z: DHQETQALDE(pT)DLEELED(oxM)GEK) enriched from high‐speed pellet lysates. Raw spectra for all phosphopeptides identified in this study are available for interrogation in the ProMEX spectral reference database CITATION.  The MS/MS spectra for each of the five phosphopeptides identified in this study were manually interpreted to ensure validity (Supporting Information Table 5). These included an unambiguous designation of the modified residue using a diagnostic b/y‐series ion, neutral loss of precursor ion and the presence of major b/y ions in the spectra. It should be noted that all five mitochondrial phosphopeptides identified were among the subset of mitochondrial proteins that had reacted to Pro‐Q Diamond staining, further demonstrating that they are genuine phosphopeptides.  Phosphoproteomic studies of mammalian and yeast mitochondria have recently been reported, providing mitochondrial phosphoprotein lists of 62 from mouse liver CITATION and 48 from yeast CITATION. A smaller phosphoproteomic study of mitochondrial complex I in bovine heart also showed phosphorylation of five subunits of this complex CITATION. A comparison of these confirmed phosphoproteins and phosphopeptides from mouse, yeast and bovine was undertaken using reciprocal BLAST against the Arabidopsis protein database (Supporting Information Table 6). Although many of the phosphoproteins from mammalian and yeast mitochondria produced significant matches to homologues in Arabidopsis, only a handful of phosphorylation sites were conserved. These phosphopeptide matches were predominantly from abundant highly conserved mitochondrial proteins; E1α, E1α subunit of branched‐chain α‐keto acid dehydrogenase, α and β subunits of ATP synthase, HSP60, ATP:ADP carrier proteins, α subunit of succinyl‐CoA ligase, aldehyde dehydrogenase and isocitrate dehydrogenase. Interestingly, an analysis of unambiguous phosphoproteins identified from mitochondria thus far, indicates a distinct lack of similarity between proteins and phosphorylation sites. Only a small subset of mitochondrial phosphoproteins is common between the three mitochondrial phosphoproteomes of mouse CITATION, yeast CITATION and Arabidopsis (this study): the E1α is shared by all three, the β subunit of ATP synthase is shared between mouse and yeast and the HSP90 between mouse and Arabidopsis (Fig. 5). Although the HSP90 proteins identified in the mouse phosphoproteome and in this study (HSP90‐2/3) share similar sites of phosphorylation, only the E1α has been shown to unequivocally share the same phosphorylation site across‐mammals, yeast and plants (Supporting Information Table 6).  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! A heterotrophic Arabidopsis thaliana (Lansberg erecta) cell culture established from callus of stem explants is maintained by weekly subculture at 22°C in Murashige and Skoog basal medium as previously described in CITATION. Prior to mitochondrial isolations cell cultures are maintained in the dark for 7 days at 22°C as outlined in CITATION.  Mitochondria were isolated from Arabidopsis cell culture using two‐density gradients according to methods outlined in CITATION. Mitochondria enriched with phosphatase inhibitors (high‐speed pellets and enriched mitochondria) were processed through stages outlined in CITATION with the addition of Phosphatase Inhibitor Cocktail 1 and Phosphatase Inhibitor Cocktail 2 at 100‐fold dilutions (Sigma‐Aldrich). For high‐speed pellets filtered cell cultures were blended in extraction buffer containing phosphatase inhibitors, cell debris removed by centrifugation at 1500×g for 5 min and a high‐speed pellet produced by centrifuging supernatant at 24 000×g for 15 min. For one gradient mitochondria, the high‐speed pellet was transferred onto the first Percoll step gradient CITATION containing phosphatase inhibitors and centrifuged at 40 000×g for 45 min. The lower band at the 25 to 40% Percoll interface was removed, centrifuged at 24 000×g for 15 min. All samples were immediately processed for phosphopeptide enrichment using Titansphere (GL Science).  Immediately after purification of mitochondria from Arabidopsis cell cultures (two‐density gradients), protein phosphorylation assays were carried out at room temperature (22°C) for 15 min with 500 μg protein, 0.3 M sucrose, 10 mM TES‐NaOH, pH 7.5, 5 mM MgCl2, 0.1 mM CaCl2, 150 μCi [γ32P]ATP (PerkinElmer) and 0.5 mM ATP. Mitochondria were centrifuged at 20 000×g for 5 min at 4°C to remove excess [γ32P]ATP and separated by 1‐D PAGE. The gel was exposed to a BAS TR2040S (Fuji) plate, and radiolabeled proteins were visualized using a BAS 2500 Phosphorimager (Fuji).  Phosphoproteins from Arabidopsis mitochondria purified using two‐density gradients were enriched for phosphoproteins using (i) PhosphoProtein Purification Kit (Qiagen) following the manufacturer's instructions; (ii) Pro‐Q Diamond Phosphoprotein Enrichment Kit (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer's instructions and (iii) metal oxide affinity chromatography (MOAC) using the Al(OH)3 batch procedure outlined in CITATION. Enriched phosphoproteins were concentrated using 5 kDa Amicon Ultra columns (Millipore).  2‐DE was carried out using methods outlined in CITATION. Samples were analyzed using 180 mm pH 3–10 non‐linear Immobiline DryStrips (GE Healthcare) and IEF performed for 19.5 h reaching a total of 49 KVh at 20°C on a Multiphor II electrophoresis unit (GE Healthcare). Equilibrated Immobiline Strips were placed on to 12% w/v SDS‐PAGE gels and electrophoresis performed at 100 V at 10°C. All 1‐D PAGE analysis utilized 12% w/v acrylamide gels. Phosphoprotein staining using Pro‐Q Diamond (Invitrogen) was carried out according to the instructions outlined by the manufacturer. Fluorescent images were acquired using a Typhoon fluorescent scanner (GE Healthcare) with 532 nm excitation, 580 nm band pass emission filter and the photo multiplier tube set at 500 for optimal Pro‐Q Diamond dye detection. ImageQuantTM software program (GE Healthcare) was used to view Pro‐Q Diamond staining of gels and to quantify protein‐staining intensities.  Phosphopeptide enrichment followed the procedures outlined in CITATION. Briefly a 1 mg mitochondrial pellet was resuspended in 8 M urea, 3 mM EDTA and 20 mM Tris‐HCl, pH 8.0, reduced with 25 mM DTT and treated with 50 mM iodoacetamide. The solution was diluted to 1 M urea with 20 mM Tris‐HCl, pH 8.0, and digested overnight with 25 μg trypsin (Roche) at 37°C. Peptides were desalted on Bio‐Select reversed phase C18 extraction columns (Grace Vydac) and reconstituted in 400 μL solution containing 50% v/v ACN, 2.5% v/v TFA and 20 mg/mL 2,5‐DHB. The solution was added to 5 mg of equilibrated Titansphere TiO2 5 μm (GL Science), rotated for 30 min at room temperature in a spin column (MoBiTec), washed twice with the 50% v/v ACN, 2.5% v/v TFA, 20 mg/mL 2,5‐DHB solution, twice with 50% v/v ACN, 0.1% v/v TFA and twice with a 0.1% v/v TFA solution. Phosphopeptides were eluted from the Titansphere chromatographic material using 0.3 M NH4OH. Eluted phosphopeptides were reconstituted in 5% v/v ACN, 0.1% v/v formic acid prior to analysis.  Samples were analyzed on a 6510 Q‐TOF LC/MS system equipped with a 1100 HPLC system and a chip cube source (Agilent Technologies). The Chip consisted of a 40 nL enrichment column (Zorbax 300SB‐C18 5u) and a 150 mm separation column (Zorbax 300SB‐C18 5u) driven by nano/capillary liquid chromatography system. Both systems were controlled by MassHunter Workstation Data Acquisition for Q‐TOF (version B.01.02, Build 65.4, Patches 1,2,3,4, Agilent Technologies). Peptides were eluted into the mass spectrometer over a 60‐min gradient (5–60% v/v ACN in 0.1% v/v formic acid). The instrument was run in positive ion mode and MS scans run over a range of m/z 275–1500 at four spectra/second. Precursor ions were selected for auto MS/MS at an absolute threshold of 500 and a relative threshold of 0.01, with maximum of three precursors per cycle, and active exclusion set at two spectra and released after 1 min. Precursor charge‐state selection and preference was set to 2+ and then 3+ and precursors selected by charge then abundance.  Gel‐arrayed proteins were selected from the gel, washed and in‐gel digested overnight at 37°C according to CITATION. Samples were analyzed on either a QStar Pulsar i MS/MS system (Applied Biosystems) or a 6510 Q‐TOF LC/MS system (Agilent Technologies). In‐gel‐digested samples analyzed on the QStar Pulsar i MS/MS were hydrated in 5% v/v ACN, 0.1% v/v formic acid and loaded onto self‐packed Microsorb (Varian) C18 (5 μm, 100 Å) reverse‐phase columns (0.5 mm×50 mm) using an 1100 series capillary liquid chromatography system (Agilent Technologies) and eluted into the mass spectrometer in positive ion mode equipped with an IonSpray with ACN concentrations from 5 to 60% v/v and 0.1% v/v formic acid. Ions were selected automatically for the N2 collision cell utilizing the information‐dependent acquisition capabilities of Analyst QS v1.1 (Applied Biosystems) and the rolling collision energy feature for automated collision energy determination based on the ions m/z. The method employed a 1 s TOF MS scan which automatically switched (using information‐dependent acquisition) to a 2 s Product Ion scan (MSMS) when a target ion reached an intensity of greater that 50 counts and its charge state was identified as 2+, 3+ or 4+. TOF MS scanning was undertaken on an m/z range of 400–1600 using a Q2 transmission window of 380 amu (100%). Product Ion scans were undertaken at m/z ranges of 70–2000 at low resolution utilizing Q2 transmission windows of 50 amu (33%), 190 amu (33%) and 650 amu (34%). In‐gel‐digested samples analyzed on the 6510 Q‐TOF (Agilent Technologies) utilized parameters as outlined above except a 20‐min gradient (5–60% ACN) was employed.  Mass spectral data were interrogated using the MASCOT search engine version 2.2.03 (Matrix Sciences) for protein and peptide identifications. Data produced on the QStar Pulsar i MS/MS system were exported as .mgf files from Analyst QS v1.1 using a script available from Matrix Sciences (version 1.6b23). The script was set to centroid the survey scan ions (TOF MS) at a height percentage of 50% and a merge distance of 0.1 amu (for charge‐state determination), centroid MS/MS data at a height percentage of 50% and a merge distance of 2 amu, reject a CID if less than ten peaks, discard ions with charge equal and greater than 5+. Data produced on the 6510 Q‐TOF LC/MS system (Agilent Technologies) were opened in MassHunter Workstation Qualitative Analysis (version B.01.02, Build 1.2.122.1, Patches 3 Agilent Technologies) and MS/MS compounds detected by “Find Auto MS/MS” using default settings were exported as .mzData files. Raw spectral data were extracted from mzData files and the MASCOT Search Log using tools developed in‐house. The utility mz2mgf is written in Java and converts base64‐encoded binary data from mzData file exports produced by MassHunter Workstation Qualitative Analysis (version B.01.02, Agilent Technologies) into a user readable MASCOT Generic File format and is freely available at http://www.ce4csb.org/.  Protein identifications used a peptide tolerance of ±0.1 Da and MS/MS tolerance of ±0.5 Da; variable modifications were Oxidation (M) and Carbamidomethyl (C); up to one missed cleavage for trypsin was selected; the instrument type was set to ESI‐QUAD‐TOF. Searches were performed against an in‐house database of A. thaliana proteins (release 7: TAIR7_pep_20070320) downloaded from The Arabidopsis Information Resource, which included human keratin, BSA and trypsin sequences (31 956 sequences; 13 047 955 residues). A false discovery rate and ions score or expected cut‐off was calculated for each experiment by combining all data and interrogating MASCOT using the Decoy feature on the MS/MS Ions Search interface. A “significance threshold” was selected to produce a false discovery rate of ≤5% and to determine the ions score or expected cut‐off. Specific values and whether they pertain to protein or peptide scores are shown in Figures and Tables.  Spectra matching mitochondrial phosphopeptides were analyzed manually after matching by MASCOT, with a number of features required before a match was validated. Initial matches were required to be within a tolerance of ±0.1 Da and MS/MS tolerance of ±0.5 Da, with “Require bold red” (removing redundant peptide matches) and “Standard scoring” selected. For fragmentation spectra, the following criteria were used for manual inspection: major ions in the fragmentation spectra corresponding to major y and b ions, the presence of a diagnostic y or b ion providing evidence for a modification by phosphorylation and the presence of a neutral loss precursor ion, diagnostic y or b ions after the site of modification. Further spectral validations and phosphorylation site confirmations were carried out using the PTM scoring algorithm CITATION available through the PhosCalc tool where a PTM score >84 provides 99% sensitivity at a specificity of 82% for MS2 experiments using a Window Size of 0.4 CITATION. Annotated phosphopeptide MS/MS are available in the Supporting Information phosphopeptide_spectra.pdf. 
