!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis thaliana L. genome contains 58 membrane proteins belonging to the mitochondrial carrier family. Two mitochondrial carrier family members, here named AtNDT1 and AtNDT2, exhibit high structural similarities to the mitochondrial nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) carrier ScNDT1 from bakers' yeast. Expression of AtNDT1 or AtNDT2 restores mitochondrial NAD+ transport activity in a yeast mutant lacking ScNDT. Localization studies with green fluorescent protein fusion proteins provided evidence that AtNDT1 resides in chloroplasts, whereas only AtNDT2 locates to mitochondria. Heterologous expression in Escherichia coli followed by purification, reconstitution in proteoliposomes, and uptake experiments revealed that both carriers exhibit a submillimolar affinity for NAD+ and transport this compound in a counter-exchange mode. Among various substrates ADP and AMP are the most efficient counter-exchange substrates for NAD+. Atndt1- and Atndt2-promoter-GUS plants demonstrate that both genes are strongly expressed in developing tissues and in particular in highly metabolically active cells. The presence of both carriers is discussed with respect to the subcellular localization of de novo NAD+ biosynthesis in plants and with respect to both the NAD+-dependent metabolic pathways and the redox balance of chloroplasts and mitochondria. 
!~RES~! The Arabidopsis genome harbors 58 genes coding for MCF-type carrier proteins (CITATION, CITATION). A detailed search for proteins in Arabidopsis exhibiting structural homology to the NDT type carriers previously identified in bakers' yeast revealed that two transporters show a substantial degree of similarity. AtNDT1 (At2g47490) comprises 312 amino acids in length leading to a calculated molecular mass of 33.9 kDa. AtNDT1 exhibits 52% similar- and 34% identical amino acids when compared with the NAD+ carrier NDT1 form yeast (Fig. 1). The isoform AtNDT2 (At1g25380) comprises 363 amino acids in length, leading to a calculated molecular mass of 39.5 kDa. AtNDT2 exhibits 46% similar and 28% identical amino acids when compared with ScNDT1 (Fig. 1).  [[FIGURE]] Bioinformatics analysis revealed that the amino acid sequences of the two novel Arabidopsis proteins show the main characteristics of all members of the mitochondrial carrier family, namely a hydropathy profile of a six transmembrane protein (according to transmembrane prediction programs, TmMulticon, (CITATION)) and the presence of a 3-fold repeated METS domain representing mitochondrial energy transfer signatures (assessed by Interpro analysis) (Fig. 1). These signature motifs are also present in the two NDT homologues in bakers' yeast (CITATION). Moreover, the occurrence of NDT carriers is not limited to the dicotyledonous species A. thaliana as homologous proteins are also present in the monocotyledonous species Oryza sativa (Fig. 1).  Before the first predicted transmembrane domains, both AtNDT1 and AtNDT2 exhibited comparable short N-terminal extensions (Fig. 1). The N-terminal extension of AtNDT2 is, according to the ChloroP_V1.1 prediction server, proposed to represent a putative mitochondrial transit peptide, whereas in the case of AtNDT1, a localization in the plant endomembrane system may be assumed (CITATION). The C-terminal extension of AtNDT1 is 45 amino acids shorter than that of AtNDT2 (Fig. 1). Without considering these 45 residues, AtNDT1 and AtNDT2 share 61% identical amino acids.  Reconstitution of recombinant proteins in proteoliposomes is a method frequently used to identify transport properties of uncharacterized carrier proteins. Thus, we expressed the open reading frames of At2g47490 and At1g25380 in E. coli CO214(DE3) cells (see supplemental Fig. 1, lanes 4 and 7, respectively). The gene products of At2g47490 and At1g25380 accumulated as inclusion bodies and were purified by centrifugation and washing. The apparent molecular masses of the purified proteins were about 35.0 and 40.5 kDa for AtNDT1 and AtNDT2 (supplemental Fig. 1, lanes 5 and 8; yield 60–80 mg/liter), in good agreement with their respective molecular masses. The identities of both recombinant proteins were further confirmed by N-terminal sequencing. The recombinant proteins were not detected in bacteria harvested immediately before induction of expression (supplemental Fig. 1, lane 3 for AtNDT1 and lane 6 for AtNDT2) nor in cells harvested after induction but lacking the coding sequence in the corresponding expression vector (supplemental Fig. 1, lane 2 for AtNDT1, and data not shown for AtNDT2).  In the search for potential substrates of AtNDT1 and AtNDT2, we based our choice of metabolites on the fact that these proteins are related to ScNDT1, which has been demonstrated to be the NAD+ transporter in mitochondria from bakers' yeast (CITATION). Proteoliposomes reconstituted with recombinant AtNDT1 and AtNDT2 catalyzed an [3H]NAD+/NAD+ homo-exchange that was completely inhibited by a mixture of pyridoxal 5′-phosphate and bathophenanthroline (data not shown). However, they did not catalyze homo-exchanges of pyruvate, malate, oxoglutarate, glutamate, or carnitine (data not shown). Importantly, no [3H]NAD+/NAD+ exchange activity was detected when AtNDT1 or AtNDT2 had been inactivated by boiling before incorporation into liposomes or when proteoliposomes were reconstituted with sarkosyl-solubilized protein from bacterial cells either lacking the expression vector for AtNDT1 or AtNDT2 or harvested immediately before induction of expression.  The substrate specificities of reconstituted AtNDT1 and AtNDT2 were examined in depth by measuring the rates of [3H]NAD+ uptake into proteoliposomes that had been preloaded with various potential substrates (Fig. 2). With both proteins, [3H]NAD+ exchanged not only with itself (homo-exchange) but also with some intraliposomal NAD+ analogues (i.e. nicotinic acid adenine dinucleotide, nicotinamide mononucleotide, and nicotinic acid mononucleotide; hetero-exchange) and several nucleotides of the bases A, G, C, U, and T (Fig. 2). In contrast, the uptake of radioactively labeled NAD+ was low in the presence of internal α-NAD+, NADH, and cAMP. Both carriers accept FAD and FMN as poor counter-exchange substrates (Fig. 2), but pyrophosphate is solely used by AtNDT1 and not by AtNDT2 (Fig. 2). Negligible NAD+ uptake rates were measured with internal NADP+, NADPH, nicotinamide, nicotinic acid, adenosine, thiamine mono- or diphosphate, inorganic phosphate, coenzyme A, folate, NaCl (Fig. 2), and (not shown) malate, malonate, citrate, fumarate, aspartate, glutamate, S-adenosylmethionine, lysine, arginine, and ornithine did not serve as suitable counter-exchange substrates. Among intraliposomal nucleotides, adenine nucleotides were exchanged more effectively than those of the other bases. For each type of nucleotide, nucleoside mono- and diphosphates were more effective than nucleoside triphosphates, especially in the case of AtNDT2 (Fig. 2B). It is worth mentioning that similar results were obtained by measuring the uptake of [14C]AMP instead of [3H]NAD+ under the same experimental conditions of Fig. 2 (data not shown).  [[FIGURE]] The [3H]NAD+/NAD+ exchange reactions catalyzed by reconstituted AtNDT1 and AtNDT2 were inhibited strongly by pyridoxal 5′-phosphate, bathophenanthroline, and mercurials (HgCl2, mersalyl, p-hydroxymercuribenzoate, and p-hydroxymercuribenzoate sulfonate), inhibitors of several mitochondrial carriers, and partially by bromcresol purple and tannic acid (inhibitors of the glutamate carrier (CITATION)) as well as by N-ethylmaleimide (Fig. 3). In contrast, little inhibition was observed with butylmalonate, 1,2,3-benzenetricarboxylate, and bongkrekate (powerful inhibitors of other mitochondrial carriers). It is notable that carboxyatractyloside and α-cyano-4-hydroxycinnamate, at concentrations that completely inhibit the mitochondrial ADP/ATP- and the pyruvate carrier, respectively, had a small effect on the activity of AtNDT1 and a slightly greater effect on the activity of AtNDT2 (Fig. 3). The inhibitor sensitivity of AtNDT1 and AtNDT2, therefore, resembles that of ScNDT1 but is not identical.  [[FIGURE]] In Fig. 4, A and B, the [3H]NAD+ transport kinetics are compared for proteoliposomes measured either as uniport (in the absence of internal NAD+) or as exchange (in the presence of 10 mm internal NAD+). The exchange reactions catalyzed by both AtNDT1 and AtNDT2 followed first-order kinetics, isotopic equilibrium being approached exponentially (Fig. 4, A and B). The rate constants and the initial rates of NAD+ exchange deduced from the time-courses (CITATION) were 0.04 and 0.18 min−1 and 0.90 and 3.78 mmol/min × g protein for AtNDT1 and for AtNDT2, respectively. In contrast, the uniport uptake of NAD+ by both carriers was negligible (Fig. 4, A and B).  [[FIGURE]] The uniport mode of transport was further investigated by measuring the efflux of [3H]NAD+ or [14C]AMP from proteoliposomes preloaded with these compounds. This experimental approach provides a more sensitive assay for unidirectional transport (CITATION). With both reconstituted carriers, AtNDT1 and AtNDT2, little efflux of [3H]NAD+ or [14C]AMP was observed in the absence of external substrate, whereas substantial efflux occurred upon the addition of external NAD+ or AMP (Fig. 4, C–F). Both efflux processes, i.e. those with and without external substrate, were prevented completely by the presence of the inhibitors bathophenanthroline and pyridoxal 5′-phosphate (Fig. 4, C–F).  The kinetic constants of recombinant purified AtNDT1 and AtNDT2 were determined from the initial transport rates at various external [3H]NAD+ concentrations in the presence of a constant saturating internal NAD+ concentration of 10 mm. The half-saturation constant (Km) and specific activity (Vmax) values for NAD+/NAD+ exchange at 25 °C were 0.24 ± 0.04 mm and 1.41 ± 0.18 mmol/min × g protein for AtNDT1 and 0.15 ± 0.01 mm and 4.76 ± 0.75 mmol/min × g protein for AtNDT2, respectively (mean values of more than 60 experiments). The Vmax of AtNDT2 was, therefore, 3.4-fold greater than that of AtNDT1, and the Km of AtNDT2 for external NAD+ was nearly half that of AtNDT1.  Several external substrates were competitive inhibitors of AtNDT1 and AtNDT2 (Table 1), as they increased the apparent Km without changing the Vmax of the [3H]NAD+/NAD exchange (not shown). These results demonstrate that AtNDT1 has a greater affinity than AtNDT2 for all nucleotides of the purine and pyrimidine bases investigated herein. The inhibition constants (Ki) of AMP and ADP for both AtNDT1 and AtNDT2 were lower than those of the other purine and pyrimidine nucleotides. Moreover, the Ki of AtNDT1 and AtNDT2 for FMN and FAD (about 0.6 and 1.2 mm, respectively) were lower than those expected on the basis of their modest ability (at 10 mm concentration) to exchange with NAD+ (see Fig. 2). The latter findings suggest that these flavin adenine dinucleotides either have a rather high affinity for AtNDT1 and AtNDT2, although they are poorly transported, or exert an inhibitory effect on these proteins at high concentrations. In addition, in agreement with the results of Table 1, no inhibition was observed by the simultaneous addition of 5 mm CTP, UTP, TTP, or pyrophosphate with the labeled substrate on the AtNDT2-reconstituted [3H]NAD+/NAD+ exchange activity measured under the conditions described in Table 1.  [[TABLE]] The S. cerevisiae ndt1Δndt2 strain lacks mitochondrial NAD+ uptake capacity and showed a growth delay on nonfermentable substrates which was more pronounced in the synthetic minimal medium than in the yeast-peptone medium (CITATION). We, therefore, checked whether the introduction of each of the two Arabidopsis genes, At2g47490 (AtNDT1) or At1g25380 (AtNDT2), in S. cerevisiae Δndt1Δndt2 double mutant strain reversed the growth defect.  The Δndt1Δndt2 cells transformed with the empty pYES2 vector and grown on synthetic minimal medium supplemented with 2% ethanol exhibited a lower exponential growth rate (resulting in a 3-fold increase in doubling time) and a lower growth plateau at the stationary phase as compared with wild-type cells transformed with the same empty vector (data not shown). The growth parameters were completely recovered when the double mutant cells were transformed with the vector carrying the Arabidopsis carrier AtNDT1 or AtNDT2-short (without the 47 C-terminal amino acids) (data not shown). With full-length AtNDT2 only a partial recovery of the growth rate and the doubling time of the yeast mutant were obtained. The different effect between the full-length and truncated version of AtNDT2 is probably due to a toxic effect of the corresponding C-terminal extension. This possibility is substantiated by the finding that Δndt1Δndt2 cells transformed with AtNDT2 (but not with AtNDT2-short) did not grow on synthetic complete medium supplemented with 2% glucose or 2% galactose (data not shown).  Subsequently, we checked whether AtNDT1 or AtNDT2 short expression was able to increase the mitochondrial NAD+ content of the Δndt1Δndt2 strain, which is much lower than that of the wild-type yeast strain (CITATION). The mitochondrial NAD+ content of the double mutant strain increased severalfold upon expression of Arabidopsis AtNDT1 or AtNDT2 short (Fig. 5). Taken together these results indicate that both Arabidopsis carriers are able to complement the phenotype of the S. cerevisiae cells devoid of their NAD+ mitochondrial transporters.  [[FIGURE]] To provide experimental evidence on the subcellular localization of both carrier proteins, we generated corresponding GFP fusions and expressed these recombinant proteins in tobacco mesophyll protoplasts. The AtNDT1-GFP protein locates to the chloroplast membrane (Fig. 6A, left panel). This interpretation is based on the observation that the large green fluorescing organelle is fully congruent with the red autofluorescence of the chloroplasts (Fig. 6A, middle panel) and is further confirmed by the merge (Fig. 6A, right panel).  [[FIGURE]] In the case of AtNDT2-GFP, the green fluorescence appears in organelles clearly smaller than the large red fluorescing chloroplasts (Fig. 6B, left panel). By use of further GFP fusion proteins we moreover excluded that AtNDT2-GFP resides in either Golgi vesicles or the endoplasmic reticulum (data not shown). To verify whether these small organelles represent either mitochondria or peroxisomes, we additionally expressed a GFP derivate carrying the peroxisomal targeting signal SKL (SKL22::DsRed, kindly provided by Dr. Ian Small) and used the Mito Tracker dye. A comparison between the AtNDT2-GFP fluorescence (Fig. 6B, left) and the GFP-SKL fluorescence in peroxisomes (Fig. 6B, middle panel) shows that AtNDT2-GFP does not reside in peroxisomes (Fig. 6B, middle and right panels). However, AtNDT2-GFP caused fluorescence (Fig. 6C, left), and the Mito Tracker labeled organelles (Fig. 6C, middle) merged perfectly (Fig. 6C, right) further underlining the mitochondrial localization of this carrier.  To evaluate the expression pattern of the Atndt1 and Atndt2 genes, we constructed corresponding promoter-GUS reporter plants. For each construct we generated 25 independent transgenic lines; representative data are shown in Fig. 7A–L. Atndt1-promoter-GUS activity is comparably high in young leaf mesophyll cells (Fig. 7, A and B), absent in developing siliques and seeds (Fig. 7C), low in all flower tissues (Fig. 7D), and high in root tips and at the branches of adventitious roots (Fig. 7E). Atndt2-promoter-GUS activity is remarkably high in the rapidly developing young meristematic shoot area (Fig. 7G), in vascular bundles (veins) from young and old leaves (Fig. 7, G and H), in developing siliques including the funiculi structures (Fig. 7I), in petal veins (Fig. 7J), in developing pollen (Fig. 7K), and in the central cylinder of Arabidopsis roots (Fig. 7L).  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis plants were grown on soil in a greenhouse for a relatively short photoperiod (10 h light at 23 °C/14 h dark at 20 °C) under low light (100 μmol of photons m−2 s−1) and at 40–65% relative humidity. A short photoperiod and low light intensities are mandatory for large Arabidopsis plants.  Multiple alignments of amino acid sequences from ScNDT1 and ScNDT2 and the plant homologues available at ARAMEMNON (CITATION) were obtained using ClustalX2 (CITATION).  The green fluorescent protein fusion constructs were prepared by amplification of the complete coding region of Atndt1 and Atndt2 using forward primer SK43-XbaI 5′- CGTTCAGATTCTAGAGATGTCCG-3′ (Atndt2, SK45-XbaI 5′-TTCTAGGGTCTAGAGATGATTGAA-3′) and reverse primer SK44-XhoI 5′-GAGCTTTGCTCGAGAGGTATATG-3′ (Atndt2, SK46-XhoI 5′-TTTATTTGCTCTCGAGAGGGATAT-3′), respectively. Both primers included restriction sites for an “in-frame” insertion into pGFP2 (CITATION).  Protoplasts were prepared from tobacco plants (Nicotiana tabacum cv. W38) grown under sterile conditions as described previously (CITATION). Protoplasts were transformed with column-purified plasmid DNA (30 μg/0.5 × 106 cells). After 18 or 36 h of incubation in the dark at 22 °C, protoplasts were analyzed for green fluorescence using a Zeiss Axiovert 200M fluorescence microscope (Carl Zeiss AG, Jena, Germany). GFP was excited at 488 nm, and emission was detected using a Zeiss digital camera AxioCam-MRm equipped with a 505–530-nm bandpass filter and a Plan Neofluar 40×/1.3 oil objective.  For generation of promoter-GUS constructs, the promoter regions of about 1100 bp of the Atndt1 and Atndt2 genes (including 15 bp of the coding region) were amplified by PCR from genomic DNA, and the obtained PCR products were subcloned in T7 orientation into SmaI restricted pBSK (Stratagene). Both pBSK constructs were restricted with HindIII and SmaI, and the promoter inserts were further introduced in-frame into the binary vector pGPTV (CITATION). For the Atndt1 construct, the following primers were used: 5′-ATGGTTATCGATGTCAAAGTTGTGATATG-3′ (forward) and 5′-GGAGGATGAGAATCCCGGGACATCTCTTGG-3 (reverse); for the Atndt2 construct, primers 5′-GAATCGAGTGAAGCTATTTCCATAAGC-3′ (forward) and 5′-ATACTCCGGTAATCCCGGGTAGAGTTCCCA-3′ (reverse) were used. The Atndt1- and Atndt2-promoter-GUS plasmids were used for Agrobacterium tumefaciens transformation. Transformation of Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Columbia) was conducted according to the floral dip method (CITATION).  Seedlings or tissues from transgenic Atndt1- or Atndt2-promoter-GUS plants were collected in glass scintillation vials filled with ice-cold 90% acetone and incubated for 20 min at room temperature. For histochemical localization of GUS activity, the plant material was infiltrated for 30 min with 2 mm 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-glucuronic acid in staining buffer medium and subsequently stained according to a standard protocol (CITATION). Images were taken using a Leica MZ10F stereo microscope (Leica Microsystems, Wetzlar, Germany) equipped with a Leica digital camera DFC 420 C.  The coding sequences of At2g47490 for AtNDT1 and At1g25380 for AtNDT2 (accession numbers NM_130317 and NM_102349, NCBT RefSeq, respectively) were amplified by PCR from A. thaliana root cDNA preparation. The oligonucleotide primers were synthesized corresponding to the extremities of the coding sequences, with additional BamHI and HindIII (for AtNDT1) or NdeI and EcoRI (for AtNDT2) restriction sites as linkers (AtNDT1, TAGGGATCCATGTCCGCTAATTCTCATCCTCC (forward) and CGAAAGCTTTTAAAGTATAGAGCTTTGCTCAGAAGGTATAT (reverse); AtNDT2, TGAGGATCCCATATGATTGAACATGGGAACTCTACC (forward) and CGAGAATTCTTATTTGCTTCCAAGAGGGATATG (reverse)). The amplified products were cloned into the Escherichia coli pRUN expression vector and transformed into E. coli DH5α cells. Transformants were selected on 2× YT plates containing ampicillin (100 μg/ml) and screened by direct colony PCR. The sequences of inserts were verified.  The expression of recombinant proteins was carried out at 37 °C in E. coli strain C0214(DE3) (CITATION). Control cultures with the empty vector were processed in parallel. Inclusion bodies were purified on a sucrose density gradient (CITATION) and washed at 4 °C, first with TE buffer (10 mm Tris/HCl, 1 mm EDTA, pH 7.0), then twice with a buffer containing Triton X-114 (3%, w/v), 1 mm EDTA, and 10 mm PIPES, pH 7.0, and finally with 10 mm PIPES, pH 7.0. The proteins were solubilized in 1.6% sarkosyl (w/v). Small residues were removed by centrifugation (258,000 × g for 20 min at 4 °C). Proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE and stained with Coomassie Blue dye. The N termini were sequenced, and the yield of purified proteins was estimated by laser densitometry of stained samples (CITATION).  The recombinant proteins in sarkosyl were reconstituted into liposomes in the presence of substrates, as described previously (CITATION). External substrate was removed from proteoliposomes on Sephadex G-75 columns, pre-equilibrated with 50 mm NaCl and 10 mm PIPES at pH 7.0 (buffer A). The amount of protein incorporated into liposomes was measured as described previously (CITATION). Transport at 25 °C was started by adding [3H]NAD (PerkinElmer Life Sciences) or [14C]AMP (Amersham Biosciences) to substrate-loaded proteoliposomes and terminated after the desired time by the addition of 20 mm pyridoxal 5′-phosphate and 20 mm bathophenanthroline. In controls, the inhibitors were added at the beginning together with the labeled substrate. Entrapped radioactivity was quantified (CITATION). The experimental values were corrected by subtracting control values.  The initial transport rate was calculated from the radioactivity taken up by proteoliposomes in the linear range of substrate uptake. For efflux measurements, proteoliposomes containing 2 mm NAD+ or AMP were labeled with 5 μm [3H]NAD+ or [14C]AMP by carrier-mediated exchange equilibration (CITATION). After 30 min for AtNDT1 and 10 min for AtNDT2, the external radioactivity was removed by passing the proteoliposomes through Sephadex G-75 columns. Efflux was started by adding unlabeled external substrate or buffer A alone and terminated by the addition of the inhibitors indicated above.  The pYES2-AtNDT1 and pYES2-AtNDT2-short (lacking the last 47 C-terminal amino acids) plasmids were constructed by cloning the coding sequences of both carriers into the yeast pYES2 expression vector (Invitrogen) under the control of the inducible Gal1 promoter. Δndt1Δndt2 Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells (CITATION) were transformed with the above plasmids and grown in liquid synthetic minimal medium or synthetic complete medium supplemented with 2% ethanol and with auxotrophic nutrients. Mitochondria were isolated as described previously (CITATION) from cells grown until an optical density of 1.0 was reached, and the intramitochondrial NAD+ was assayed by a standardized method (CITATION). 
