!~ABS~! Sad1/UNC-84 (SUN)-domain proteins are inner nuclear membrane (INM) proteins that are part of bridging complexes linking cytoskeletal elements with the nucleoskeleton, and have been shown to be conserved in non-plant systems. In this paper, we report the presence of members of this family in the plant kingdom, and investigate the two Arabidopsis SUN-domain proteins, AtSUN1 and AtSUN2. Our results indicate they contain the highly conserved C-terminal SUN domain, and share similar structural features with animal and fungal SUN-domain proteins including a functional coiled-coil domain and nuclear localization signal. Both are expressed in various tissues with AtSUN2 expression levels relatively low but upregulated in proliferating tissues. Further, we found AtSUN1 and AtSUN2 expressed as fluorescent protein fusions, to localize to and show low mobility in the nuclear envelope (NE), particularly in the INM. Deletion of various functional domains including the N terminus and coiled-coil domain affect the localization and increase the mobility of AtSUN1 and AtSUN2. Finally, we present evidence that AtSUN1 and AtSUN2 are present as homomers and heteromers in vivo, and that the coiled-coil domains are required for this. The study provides evidence suggesting the existence of cytoskeletal–nucleoskeletal bridging complexes at the plant NE.
!~RES~! To identify putative SUN-domain homologues in plants, the Caenorhabditis elegans SUN-domain protein UNC-84 sequence was used as the query in a protein BLAST search, in which At3g10730 (30% identical, 46% similar, e-value 2e−12) and At5g04990 (28% identical, 47% similar, e-value 2e−10) were identified as Arabidopsis homologues of the protein. At3g10730 is 455 amino acids long, with a predicted molecular weight of 50 kDa, and At5g04990 is 471 amino acids long, with a predicted molecular weight of 51.5 kDa. Both contain the highly conserved SUN domain in the C terminus (amino acids 310–446 of At3g10730 and amino acids 313–451 of At5g04990) and a putative coiled-coil domain (amino acids 205–225 of At3g10730 and amino acids 191–225 of At5g04990), as well as an N-terminal transmembrane domain (amino acids 107–128 of At3g10730 and amino acids 109–129 of At5g04990) and bipartite nuclear localization signal (NLS) (amino acids 89–106 of At3g10730 and amino acids 89–106 of At5g04990; Figure 1a). In addition, a putative EF-hand Ca2+ binding domain is predicted to be present in At5g04990 (amino acids 253–268) (Figure 1a). The two proteins appear to be closely related as their amino acid sequences are 62% identical and 72% similar (Figure 1b). [[FIGURE]] Further investigations using Interpro, Pfam and BLAST searches with At3g10730 and At5g04990 as queries revealed the presence of putative SUN-domain proteins in Oryza sativa, Vitus vinifera, Physcomitrella patens and Zea mays. Two SUN-domain proteins appear to be present in each plant species, apart from P. patens, and all identified plant SUN-domain proteins are of similar size, have a transmembrane domain and the conserved C-terminal SUN domain (Figure 1a). A coiled-coil domain, bipartite NLS and the EF-hand Ca2+ binding domain are also present in some of the other plant SUN-domain proteins (Figure 1a). The length and location of the domains within the protein sequences are listed in Table S1. A comparison with well-characterized animal and yeast SUN-domain proteins revealed that the domain layout appears to be generally conserved across the kingdoms. An N-terminal transmembrane domain is followed by coiled-coil domains and the C-terminal SUN domain (Figure 1a). Size appears to be a major difference, with the animal SUN-domain proteins generally being significantly larger than the plant SUN-domain proteins. Additional homology comparisons of At3g10730 and At5g04990 with animal and yeast SUN-domain proteins revealed that At3g10730 shares greater homology with animal SUN2 proteins (Mus musculus SUN2 e-value 6e−21, Homo sapiens SUN2 e-value 7e−20, Bos taurus SUN2 e-value 6e−20), and that At5g04990 shares greater homology with animal SUN1 proteins (H. sapiens SUN1 e-value 5e−21, M. musculus SUN1 e-value 1e−18, B. taurus SUN1 e-value 2e−15, Rattus norvegicus SUN1 e-value 3e−19). Therefore, At3g10730 was renamed AtSUN2 and At5g04990 was renamed AtSUN1. The mRNAs of AtSUN1 and AtSUN2 were detected in adult Arabidopsis leaf and inflorescence tissue, as well as in Arabidopsis cell suspension by RT-PCR, verifying that both genes are expressed in various tissues and cell types, and are not pseudogenes (Figure 2a). In addition, relative expression values based on microarray data were obtained for AtSUN2 from Genevestigator (https://www.genevestigator.ethz.ch/; CITATION). The gene was found to be expressed in 60 different tissue types and developmental stages of Arabidopsis at relatively similar levels, although its expression appears to be upregulated in inflorescence and root tip tissue (Figure 2b,c; Table S2). In comparison with reference genes ubiquitin conjugating enzyme UBC9, yellow leaf specific protein 8 (YLS8) and protein phosphatase 2A subunit (PP2A), which are expressed at relatively high, medium and low levels, respectively, AtSUN2 is expressed at very low levels (Figure 2b,c; Table S2). Upregulation of AtSUN2 expression in roots of 7-day-old seedlings was reported by CITATION during transcriptional profiling of Arabidopsis embryos and seedlings. No significant difference in AtSUN2 expression levels was found during the globular, heart and torpedo stages of embryonic development. [[FIGURE]] Polyclonal anti-peptide antisera were raised to amino acids 92–105 of AtSUN1 and AtSUN2, as these domains were found to be unique to each of the two proteins. Bands of approximately 43 kDa were detected with both anti-AtSUN1 and anti-AtSUN2 antisera, but not with the pre-immune sera (Figure 2d) indicating the presence of endogenous AtSUN1 and AtSUN2 in Arabidopsis leaf tissue. Animal and yeast SUN-domain proteins have been shown to reside in the NE, in particular the INM. The presence of a predicted transmembrane domain and NLS in both AtSUN1 and AtSUN2 suggest that both proteins might localize similarly in plants. To investigate the subcellular localization of the two proteins, fluorescent protein fusions of AtSUN1 and AtSUN2 were expressed transiently in tobacco leaf tissue and stably in tobacco BY-2 cells. Expression was observed by confocal and electron microscopy. The plant NE marker LBR-GFP was used as a positive control (Figure 3a). Similar to LBR-GFP, both YFP-AtSUN1 and CFP-AtSUN2 were present at the nuclear periphery around chromatin, indicative of NE localization (Figure 3b,c), where they co-localized (Figure 3d). Additional weak fluorescence was also observed in either cytoplasmic puncta or the ER of some cells (Figure S1). In addition to the transient expression, tobacco BY-2 cells were transformed with AtSUN1-YFP and AtSUN2-YFP. Stable expression of the two fusion proteins also resulted in their localization to the NE of BY-2 cells, and in weak fluorescent labelling of ER and cytoplasmic puncta (Figure 3e,f). [[FIGURE]] Ultrastructural observations of immunogold-labelled tobacco leaf tissue transiently expressing mRFP-AtSUN1 and YFP-AtSUN2 were carried out to confirm the NE localization. Gold labelling was primarily observed at the INM, ONM and periplasm (Figure 3h,i), with a few gold particles also decorating the ER (Figure 3h,j). The ultrastructural observations verify the localization of AtSUN1 and AtSUN2, expressed as fluorescent fusion proteins, at the plant NE, in particular at the INM. To investigate whether AtSUN1 and AtSUN2 are localized specifically to the INM, and to determine what domains are required for their NE localization, truncation and deletion mutants of the two proteins were created, fused to fluorescent proteins and transiently expressed in tobacco leaf tissue (Figure 4a). The subcellular localization of the mutants was observed by both confocal and electron microscopy. [[FIGURE]] Deletion of the 106 N-terminal amino acids of AtSUN1 and AtSUN2 did not affect NE localization, but resulted in a significant increase of peripheral ER labelling (Figure 4b,c,g,h; Figure S1). This was also observed in cells expressing CFP-AtSUN2ΔNLS, in which only the NLS domain was deleted (Figure 4i). Ultrastructural observations revealed the mutant to be present mainly in the ONM and ER, although INM-associated gold particles were also observed (Figure 4m,n). The affect of the coiled-coil domain on NE targeting was observed in cells expressing either YFP-AtSUN1ΔCC or CFP-AtSUN2ΔCC, in both of which the coiled-coil domain had been deleted (Figure 4a). Although both mutants were present at the NE, NE fluorescence was weak, and the two mutants were mainly localized to bright aggregates (Figure 4d,j). By lowering gain levels and laser transmission, the aggregates were found to be ring-like structures of various sizes likely to be associated with the ER (Figure 4d,e,j,k). These aggregates were also observed in cells expressing YFP-AtSUN1ΔSUN and CFP-AtSUN2ΔSUN. In these mutants, the C-terminal 159 amino acids and 146 amino acids of AtSUN1 and AtSUN2, respectively, including the SUN domain, were deleted (Figure 4a). Although a small quantity of YFP-AtSUN1ΔSUN was still present at the NE, as indicated by the low NE fluorescence in Figure 4f, CFP-AtSUN2ΔSUN was absent from the NE and completely localized in aggregates (Figure 4l). Ultrastructural observations of CFP-AtSUN2ΔSUN-expressing cells support the confocal observations, as gold particles were not detected at the INM or ONM, but were detected instead at cytoplasmic membranous structures, likely to be the cytoplasmic aggregates (Figure 4o–q). Animal and yeast SUN-domain proteins associate with nuclear components such as lamins and chromatin, as well as other NE components such as KASH domain and other SUN-domain proteins. Binding interactions affect the mobility of the protein in the membrane with strong binding interactions immobilizing the protein or slowing down its rate of movement. To gain an understanding of AtSUN1 and AtSUN2 binding at the NE, their mobility was investigated using fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP). In addition, the mobility of mutants lacking the N terminus and coiled-coil domain were also investigated, as these two domains are essential in animal and yeast SUN-domain proteins for associations with nuclear components and other SUN-domain proteins, respectively. Approximately half of YFP-AtSUN1 and CFP-AtSUN2 molecules are immobile at the NE, with the mobile fraction moving at 0.03 ± 0.01 and 0.04 ± 0.02 μm2 s−1, respectively, making these two proteins the least mobile in the NE (Table 1). Interestingly, when the YFP is fused to the C terminus of AtSUN1 and AtSUN2, their mobility significantly increases (P < 0.05), with a higher mobile fraction and diffusion rate (Table 1). Deletion of the N terminus and coiled-coil domain also significantly increase the mobility of AtSUN1 and AtSUN2 (P < 0.05). YFP-AtSUN1ΔN is more mobile than YFP-AtSUN1ΔCC (P < 0.05; Table 1). Overall, CFP-AtSUN2ΔN has the highest mobile fraction with 79.61 ± 9.87% mobile, and CFP-AtSUN2ΔCC moves the fastest, at a rate of 0.24 ± 0.11 μm2 s−1 (Table 1). The observation that deletion of the coiled-coil domain increases the mobility of YFP-AtSUN1 and CFP-AtSUN2 (Table 1) suggests that this domain is involved in binding interactions that affect the mobile behaviour of the two proteins. In animal and yeast SUN-domain proteins, the coiled-coil domain facilitates oligomerization for the formation of dimers, trimers and tetramers. Co-expression of CFP-AtSUN2ΔSUN and mRFP-AtSUN2 abolished the NE localization of the non-mutated protein and caused it to co-localize with the mutant in aggregates (data not shown), raising the possibility that the two Arabidopsis SUN-domain proteins may also interact with each other to form oligomeric complexes. To investigate this and the putative involvement of the coiled-coil domain, acceptor photobleaching fluorescence resonance energy transfer (apFRET) of fluorescent protein fusions of AtSUN1 and AtSUN2 at the NE was employed. The FRET efficiency EF was calculated according to the method described by CITATION, and denotes the increase of CFP fluorescence after bleaching YFP. As a control, the change of CFP fluorescence was observed when YFP was not bleached. The fluorescence of CFP-AtSUN1 increased significantly (P < 0.05) when it was co-expressed with either YFP-AtSUN2 (EF = 7.84 ± 3.47) or YFP-AtSUN1 (EF = 11.35 ± 3.39), and the YFP moiety was bleached (Table 2). Similarly, the CFP-AtSUN2 fluorescence increased significantly (EF = 19.78 ± 5.39; P < 0.05) after the co-expressed YFP-AtSUN2 was bleached (Table 2). This demonstrates the ability of AtSUN1 and AtSUN2 to form homomers and heteromers in vivo. However, the CFP fluorescence did not significantly alter in comparison with the control CFP levels when CFP-AtSUN1 was co-expressed with YFP-AtSUN1ΔCC, implying that deletion of the coiled-coil domain abolishes the ability of AtSUN1 to form homomers (Table 2).
!~MM~! The expasy and tair blast facilities (http://us.expasy.org/tools/blast/; http://arabidopsis.org/Blast/) were used to identify At3g10730 and At5g04990 as putative homologues of C. elegans UNC-84, and to find putative homologues of the two Arabidopsis SUN-domain proteins in other species. The amino acid sequences of At3g10730 and At5g04990 were compared with amino acid sequences in Pfam, Sanger, Aramemnon and Interpro predictive protein and pattern databases (http://pfam.sanger.ac.uk/search?tab=searchSequenceBlock; http://smart.embl-heidelberg.de; http://aramemnon.botanik.uni-koeln.de/index.ep; http://www.ebi.ac.uk/interpro) to investigate putative protein motifs. Nuclear localization signals were determined with MotifScan (http://myhits.isb-sib.ch/cgi-bin/motif_scan). Relative expression data for AtSUN2 and the three reference genes were obtained from the Genevestigator database (https://www.genevestigator.ethz.ch/; CITATION). Relative expression data for AtSUN1 were not available from Genevestigator or other expression databases. RNA was extracted from adult Arabidopsis leaf and inflorescence tissue and suspension culture cells using the Nucleospin II RNA purification kit (Macherey-Nagel, http://www.macherey-nagel.com). The Superscript III™ one-step RT-PCR system with Platinum®Taq high fidelity (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com) was used with the following primer pairs to synthesize and amplify AtSUN1, AtSUN2 and protein phosphatase 2A subunit (PP2A) cDNA. AtSUN1 forward, 3′-ATGTCGGCATCAACGGTGTCG-5′, AtSUN1 reverse, 3′-TTATTCACTTTCAGGTGAAGAGTCCTG-5′; AtSUN2 forward, 3′-ATGTCGGCGTCAACGGTGTC-5′, AtSUN2 reverse, 3′-TCAAGCATGAGCAACAGAGAC-5′; PP2A forward, 3′-ATGTCTATGGTTGATGAGCC-5′, PP2A reverse, 3′-GCTAGACATCATCACATTGTC-5′. Amino acids 92–105 of AtSUN1 and AtSUN2 were chosen as epitopes for polyclonal antipeptide antisera, as these sequences were found to be unique to AtSUN1 and AtSUN2 (determined by BLAST), and had high predicted antigenicity (Alpha Diagnostics, http://www.4adi.com). A cysteine was added to the C terminus of each peptide for keyhole limpet hemocyanin conjugation. The antibody production including peptide synthesis and purification was carried out by Genosphere (http://www.genosphere-biotech.com). Total protein was extracted from adult Arabidopsis rosette leaf tissue, as described by CITATION. Protein samples were electrophoretically separated on a 12% SDS gel alongside a broad-range, pre-stained protein marker (New England Biolabs, http://www.neb.uk.com), and were subsequently transferred onto nitrocellulose membrane. The membrane was blocked with 5% milk phosphate-buffered saline plus Tween 20 (PBST) before incubation with either rabbit anti-AtSUN1 pre-immune and antiserum (IgG fraction) or rabbit anti-AtSUN2 pre-immune and antiserum. Primary antibodies were detected using a goat anti-rabbit antibody conjugated to Cy5 diluted to 1:4000. Fluorescence was detected with a Typhoon scanner. ABRC-supplied clones U14318 and U50949 were the source of AtSUN1 and AtSUN2 CDS, respectively, for the cloning and production of mutants. PCR was used to create deletion and truncation mutants. Gateway attB sequences were added to either end of the PCR products to recombine the amplicon into the Gateway entry vector pDONR207. The destination vectors used include the following binary expression vectors: pB7WGR2 (for the N-terminal mRFP fusion pB7WGR2AtSUN1), pB7WGC2 (for the N-terminal CFP fusions pB7WGC2AtSUN1, pB7WGC2AtSUN2, pB7WGC2AtSUN2ΔN, pB7WGC2AtSUN2ΔSUN, pB7WGC2AtSUN2ΔNLS and pB7WGC2AtSUN2ΔCC), 35S-eYFP-CasB-NOS::pCambia1300 (for the N-terminal YFP fusions pCambia1300YFP-AtSUN1, pCambia1300YFP-AtSUN1ΔN, pCambia1300YFP-AtSUN1ΔSUN, pCambia1300YFP-AtSUN1ΔCC and pCambia1300YFP-AtSUN2) (Steve Slocombe, Leeds University; Plant Systems Biology, Ghent University; CITATION). Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101::pMP90 was transformed with expression vectors and used for the transient and stable expression of plant material. Nicotiana tabaccum leaves were infiltrated with agrobacteria carrying expression vectors for transient expression, as described by CITATION. Stable expression of fluorescent fusion constructs in BY-2 cells was achieved using the protocol of CITATION. Confocal imaging was performed as described by CITATION and CITATION. Chromatin of BY-2 cells was stained with DRAQ5 (Biostatus, http://www.biostatus.com). Fluorescence recovery after photobleaching was carried out as described by CITATION. For apFRET, performed as described by CITATION, a Zeiss LSM 510 META confocal microscope was used (Zeiss, http://www.zeiss.co.uk). In this case, CFP was used as the FRET donor and YFP was used as the FRET acceptor. FRET between donor and acceptor was confirmed by bleaching of YFP and monitoring the concomitant increase in CFP fluorescence. Laser transmission was kept at 5–10% to avoid photobleaching during scanning, apart from during the YFP bleaching step, when the 514-nm laser was set to 100%. Leaf segments expressing either CFP or YFP alone were imaged with the apFRET settings to confirm that fluorophore crosstalk was minimized, and that the bleaching step did not reduce CFP fluorescence. Four pre-bleach scans and 10 post-bleach scans were taken of the YFP and CFP fluorescence. For data analysis the background fluorescence was subtracted and the CFP fluorescence intensity was normalized onto a percentage scale, as described by CITATION. To calculate the FRET efficiency EF, the following equation was used:   where CFPpost is the CFP fluorescence intensity after the photobleaching and CFPpre is the CFP fluorescence intensity before the photobleaching (CITATION). Statistical analysis was performed using F-tests and Student’s t-tests. For each sample pair and each control, 30–40 NEs were used. Tobacco leaf tissue was preserved by high-pressure freezing (HPF) with a Bal-Tec HPM010 HPF machine (http://www.bal-tec.com), followed by freeze substitution and embedding in LR white resin. Ultrathin sections were cut and transferred onto formvar-covered nickel grids for immunogold labelling. Grids were blocked in goat serum diluted 1:30 in Tris-BSA for 30 min, followed by a 15-min incubation in Tris-BSA-Tween, and a 15-min incubation in Tris-BSA-glycine. Grids were than incubated overnight in either anti-GFP antibody (AbCam, http://www.abcam.com) or anti-DsRed antibody (BD Pharmingen, http://www.bdbiosciences.com) at 4°C. A goat anti-rabbit antibody (BBInternational, http://www.britishbiocell.co.uk) conjugated to 10-nm gold particles was incubated for 1 h at room temperature (21°C), followed by 15-min incubations in uranyl acetate and lead citrate for contrast staining. Samples were imaged with a JEOL 1200EXII transmission electron microscope (http://www.jeol.com) at 120 kV, and images were captured with a Gatan camera (http://www.gatan.com).
