!~ABS~! Sorting nexins are conserved proteins that function in vesicular trafficking and contain a characteristic phox homology (PX) domain. Here, we characterize the ubiquitously expressed Arabidopsis thaliana sorting nexin AtSNX2b. Sub-cellular fractionation studies indicate that AtSNX2b is peripherally associated with membranes. The AtSNX2b PX domain binds to phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate in vitro and this association is required for the localization of GFP–AtSNX2b to punctate structures in vivo, identified as the trans -Golgi network, prevacuolar compartment and endosomes. Overexpression of GFP-tagged AtSNX2b produces enlarged GFP-labeled compartments that can also be labeled by the endocytic tracer FM4-64. Endocytic trafficking of FM4-64 to the vacuole is arrested in these GFP–AtSNX2b compartments, and similar FM4-64-accumulating compartments are seen upon overexpression of untagged AtSNX2b. This suggests that exit of membrane components from these enlarged or aggregated endosomes is inhibited. Vacuolar proteins containing an N-terminal propeptide, but not those with a C-terminal propeptide, are also present in these enlarged compartments. We hypothesize that AtSNX2b is involved in vesicular trafficking from endosomes to the vacuole.
!~RES~! Three putative SNXs have been identified in the model plant Arabidopsis ( [bib82] ). Here, we focus on AtSNX2b, a potential SNX based on amino acid similarity (40–50%) with yeast and human SNXs, with the majority of the similarity residing in the region of the PX domain. Of the Arabidopsis sorting nexins, AtSNX2b is most similar to AtSNX2a (86% amino acid similarity) and shows much lower similarity to AtSNX1 (47% amino acid similarity). AtSNX2b has two major domains: (1) an N-terminal conserved PX domain which defines a SNX ( [bib86] ; [bib10] ), and (2) a C-terminal coiled-coil region potentially important for protein–protein interactions ( [bib90] ; [bib46] ; [bib51] ; [bib9] ; [bib20] ; [fig1] ). To determine the expression pattern of AtSNX2b RNA was extracted from different Arabidopsis plant organs and RT–PCR was performed using AtSNX2b gene-specific primers. [fig1] shows that AtSNX2b expression can be detected in all of the plant organs tested, including roots, rosette leaves, cauline leaves, stem, flowers, and siliques, suggesting that its function is important throughout the plant. For comparison, the expression pattern of AtSNX2a was also determined ( [fig1] ). AtSNX2a mRNA was also detected throughout the plant, although at lower levels in flowers, siliques, and senescing leaves. The overlapping expression patterns of AtSNX2b and AtSNX2a raises the possibility that the two genes may also have overlapping functions. To analyze the AtSNX2b protein, antibodies were raised against recombinant AtSNX2b. Full-length AtSNX2b protein was synthesized in Escherichia coli as a His-tagged fusion protein and purified by affinity chromatography. The protein was injected into rabbits and the generated antibodies were affinity-purified against the recombinant protein prior to use. Immunoreactivity of the affinity-purified antibodies ( [fig2] ) was compared with that of the crude serum ( [fig2] ) and preimmune serum ( [fig2] ) by immunoblotting against the recombinant protein antigen and a protein preparation from Arabidopsis . The purified anti-AtSNX2b antibodies recognized the recombinant protein and a band of similar molecular weight (approximately 67 kDa) in a total protein preparation from Arabidopsis ( [fig2] ), which was not recognized by the pre-immune serum ( [fig2] ). Cross-reacting bands were present in the crude serum blots ( [fig2] ) that were mostly absent after affinity purification. It was observed that in addition to a prominent band of the expected molecular mass, a second, weak band of slightly lower mobility on SDS–PAGE (approximately 70 kDa) was sometimes recognized by the AtSNX2b antibodies. We hypothesized that this band may either correspond to a modified form of AtSNX2b, or, because of the sequence similarity between AtSNX2a and AtSNX2b, may correspond to AtSNX2a. To investigate this further, an Arabidopsis knockout mutant was isolated from the GABI-Kat flanking sequence tag database ( [bib66] ) in which the AtSNX2b gene was disrupted by a T-DNA insertion ( [fig2] ). Loss of gene expression was confirmed by RT–PCR using gene-specific primers. No phenotype has yet been observed for the Atsnx2b mutant, either at a morphological level after examination throughout its lifecycle, in protein trafficking pathways to the vacuole, or in hormone-related responses such as gravitropism (data not shown). As the AtSNX2a protein is closely related in sequence and AtSNX2a and AtSNX2b have overlapping expression patterns ( [fig1] ), we hypothesize that the two genes may perform redundant functions. Comparison of protein extracts from the Atsnx2b mutant with those from wild-type plants by immunoblotting demonstrated that the major, lower band of the doublet recognized by the AtSNX2b antibodies was absent in the mutant, confirming that it corresponds to AtSNX2b itself. The higher, much weaker band was still present in the mutant, suggesting that this is most likely AtSNX2a, rather than a modified version of AtSNX2b. The distribution of AtSNX2b protein in aerial organs of Arabidopsis mature plants was analyzed ( [fig2] ) and compared with the RT–PCR analysis of mRNA level ( [fig1] ). High protein levels were seen in flowers, inflorescence stems, and cauline leaves, and lower but detectable levels in siliques and rosette leaves ( [fig2] ), as well as a significant amount in roots and young seedlings (see also [fig6] ). These results are consistent with the RT–PCR analysis, although much greater variation is seen in protein level than mRNA level, possibly suggesting that post-translational regulation may occur. Because SNXs are typically associated with membranes, a total protein extract was separated into membrane and soluble fractions by centrifugation at 125 000 g and analyzed by immunoblotting using AtSNX2b antibodies. AtSNX2b was detected in both the pellet and soluble fractions, indicating that AtSNX2b is partially membrane-associated ( [fig2] ). To analyze further this membrane association, differential centrifugation was performed at 12 000, 39 000 and 125 000 g and fractions were probed for the presence of AtSNX2b. AtSNX2b was detected in all three membrane fractions and the soluble fraction, confirming that AtSNX2b is partially membrane-associated ( [fig2] ). The upper weak band, potentially AtSNX2a, also appeared to be membrane-associated, although the weak and variable cross-reactivity made it difficult to draw definitive conclusions about this protein. To determine how AtSNX2b protein associates with the membrane, total membrane pellets were re-suspended in either extraction buffer alone, or extraction buffer containing 2 M NaCl, 0.1 M Na 2 CO 3 2 M urea or 1% (v/v) triton X-100. After incubation for 2 h, membranes were repelleted and pellet and supernatant fractions analyzed by immunoblotting with AtSNX2b antibodies ( [fig2] ). Each of the treatments was able to extract AtSNX2b from the membrane, indicating that AtSNX2b is peripherally associated with membranes. As a control, SYP41, an integral membrane protein ( [bib4] ), was only extracted from the membrane by the detergent triton X-100 ( [fig2] ). SNXs are defined by the presence of a PX domain and its ability to bind phosphoinositol lipids ( [bib86] ). To determine if the AtSNX2b PX domain can associate with PI lipids, or phospholipids in general, the PX domain fragment of AtSNX2b was fused with GST (glutathione-S-transferase) to generate GST–PX. As a control, point mutations were introduced into the PX domain to create an amino acid 233RR→LG change that has been shown previously to prevent PI binding in human SNXs ( [bib90] ). GST fusions with the wild-type or mutant PX domains were synthesized in E.coli purified over a glutathione resin ( [fig3] ) and allowed to bind to PIP™ strips (Echelon Inc.) containing various phospholipids. Binding was detected using antibodies against GST. The PX domain of AtSNX2b (GST–PX) specifically bound to PI3P while the PX domain mutant (GST–PX-1) and GST alone were not able to bind to any lipid ( [fig3] ). To gain insight into AtSNX2b function, its sub-cellular localization was examined in vivo. A GFP fusion was generated with full-length AtSNX2b (GFP–AtSNX2b) and transiently expressed in Arabidopsis protoplasts derived from suspension cultured cells. In addition, immunofluorescence using anti-AtSNX2b antibodies was used to assess AtSNX2b sub-cellular localization in Arabidopsis protoplasts. Both immunofluorescence and GFP-fusion localization show that AtSNX2b localizes to punctate spots in the cytoplasm ( [fig4] ). To verify that a full-length GFP–AtSNX2b fusion is produced and correctly associates with membranes, membrane and soluble fractions were prepared from protoplasts expressing GFP–AtSNX2b, or GFP as a control. The proteins were expressed for 20 h to allow the proteins to accumulate to high enough levels for detection by immunoblotting using GFP antibodies. A GFP–AtSNX2b fusion of the expected size was detected predominantly in the membrane fraction ( [fig4] ). To analyze the role of the PX domain in localization of AtSNX2b to these structures, a fusion between the full-length AtSNX2b protein containing the PX domain mutation described above and GFP was generated (GFP–AtSNX2b-1). In contrast to the wild-type protein, the GFP–AtSNX2b-1 mutant did not localize to discrete structures but rather showed a diffuse fluorescence pattern throughout the cell ( [fig4] ), suggesting that the PX domain is required for correct localization in vivo. To determine whether the PX domain alone is sufficient for localization to punctate spots, GFP was fused with the PX domain or mutant PX domain alone and the localization analyzed by fluorescence microscopy. GFP–PX and GFP–PX-1 fusions showed diffuse GFP patterns similar to the GFP–AtSNX2b-1 mutant ( [fig4] ). To confirm this result, an additional PX domain mutant was generated (PX-2; 211PP→AA). Unfortunately, the full-length GFP–AtSNX2b-2 fusion protein was not expressed in protoplasts, based on GFP fluorescence. The fusion of GFP with the PX-2 mutant PX domain also showed diffuse cytoplasmic localization, as for the wild-type and PX-1 fusions. Our results suggest that the PX domain is necessary but not sufficient for the localization of AtSNX2b to punctate compartments. As an initial approach to determine the identity of the AtSNX2b-labeled structures, the distribution of AtSNX2b and several known intracellular markers in a sucrose density gradient (13–55%) was examined. Fractions from the gradient were analyzed by immunoblotting using antibodies against aleurain (ALEU; vacuolar soluble protein), γTIP (vacuolar membrane protein), fumarase (FUM1; mitochondria), SYP21 (PVC t-SNARE), VTI12 (TGN-localized v-SNARE), and AtSNX2b. Both the AtSNX2b band (67 kDa) and the cross-reacting 70-kDa band were visible in these fractions. [fig5] shows that AtSNX2b has a bipartite distribution with a small part soluble (fractions 2–5) and the majority membrane-bound (fractions 7–12), as predicted from the differential centrifugation ( [fig2] ). The 70-kDa band was present in the same fractions as AtSNX2b, but showed a greater percentage present in the soluble fractions compared with membrane-bound. The distribution of the membrane-associated portion of AtSNX2b on the sucrose gradient overlapped extensively with that of VTI12 and with the upper band of SYP21. The SYP21 antibodies recognize a triplet of proteins, all of which correspond to the SYP21 protein ( [bib12] ); the nature of these three isoforms is unclear but may be due to post-translational modifications. These results suggest a possible localization to an organelle with similar density to the TGN and/or PVC, and distinct from the vacuole and mitochondria. To determine more precisely the localization of AtSNX2b, roots of transgenic Arabidopsis lines expressing markers for the TGN (T7-SYP42; [bib4] ), PVC (T7-SYP21 and T7-SYP22; [bib69] ), late endosomes (YFP-Rha1; [bib62] ), or Golgi apparatus (sialyl transferase (ST)-GFP; [bib85] ) were analyzed by double immunofluorescence-labeling using AtSNX2b and T7 antibodies or comparison with YFP or GFP fluorescence as appropriate. As in protoplasts, AtSNX2b antibodies recognized punctate structures in root cells that were not labeled with preimmune serum ( [fig6] ). To assess the specificity of AtSNX2b labeling, immunofluorescence was also performed under identical conditions on roots from the Atsnx2b knockout mutant. No specific signal was seen, indicating that the immunofluorescence staining observed corresponds only to AtSNX2b. White spots in merged images show that some of the AtSNX2b-labeled organelles also contained T7-SYP42, T7-SYP21 (data not shown), T7-SYP22, or YFP-Rha1 ( [fig6] ). By contrast, no overlap was seen between ST-GFP and AtSNX2b, suggesting that AtSNX2b does not reside in the Golgi apparatus. Percent co-localization was determined by counting the number of AtSNX2b-labeled structures that co-localized with each of the markers. Partial co-localization of AtSNX2b with T7-SYP42, T7-SYP21, T7-SYP22, and YFP-Rha1 was observed ( [fig6] ). The PVC and late endosomal markers T7-SYP21, T7-SYP22, and YFP-Rha1 show extensive overlap in their localization ( [bib43] ), leading to the conclusion that a large portion of AtSNX2b (60–80%) does not co-localize with any of the markers tested. As our antibodies are specific for AtSNX2b under these experimental conditions ( [fig6] ), this localization pattern suggests that AtSNX2b might localize to or cycle between PVC/late endosomal compartments, the TGN, which has been suggested also to be an early endosome ( [bib14] ; [bib42] ), and possibly an additional unidentified compartment. It is known that Arabidopsis cells contain multiple endosome types ( [bib80] ), and we therefore hypothesized that the unidentified compartment with which AtSNX2b associates could be an additional type of endosome. To test this hypothesis, we analyzed the localization of GFP–AtSNX2b in transiently transformed protoplasts compared with the fluorescent marker FM4-64. FM4-64 is widely used as an endocytic tracer in live cells ( [bib84] ; [bib7] ; [bib8] ). The cell cultures used contain cells of varying sizes; no differences were seen between large and small cells in any experiment. FM4-64 binds to the plasma membrane, is internalized by endocytosis, traffics through the endosomal system and reaches the vacuolar membrane after 3–4 h in Arabidopsis ( [bib8] ). Arabidopsis protoplasts were transiently transformed with GFP–AtSNX2b and incubated for 12 h to allow expression of the protein. They were then labeled with FM4-64 and uptake of the dye was observed over a time course of up to 4 h ( [fig7] ). After 0.5 h of uptake, FM4-64 staining was seen mainly at the plasma membrane, with a few puncta in the cytoplasm; no co-localization of FM4-64 with GFP–AtSNX2b was seen at this early time point. Between 1 and 3 h of uptake, FM4-64 was found in punctate structures that have been shown previously to correspond to Golgi/TGN, PVC, and endosomes ( [bib7] ; [bib8] ; [bib14] ). Almost complete co-localization of FM4-64 and GFP–AtSNX2b was seen at these times, suggesting that AtSNX2b is predominantly localized to organelles on the endocytic pathway. By the 4-h time point, FM4-64 reached the vacuolar membrane in control protoplasts transformed with GFP alone, while, in GFP–AtSNX2b transformed protoplasts, FM4-64 was not present on the vacuolar membrane, instead being trapped in cytoplasmic structures containing GFP–AtSNX2b. FM4-64 was not able to exit the GFP-labeled compartments even after 12 h. In addition, the appearance of the GFP–AtSNX2b structures varied over time. At early time points, the GFP–AtSNX2b localized to structures similar in appearance, although apparently somewhat larger than the structures in which endogenous AtSNX2b resides; the size of these organelles is difficult to assess by fluorescence microscopy. At later time points, these structures became enlarged and/or aggregated, and, by 4 h of FM4-64 labeling, the protoplasts contained just a few large GFP–AtSNX2b-labeled structures ( [fig7] ). This is not related to the presence of FM4-64, as similar effects are seen in the absence of FM4-64 staining, with a gradual increase in the size of the labeled structures over time. The GFP–AtSNX2b in the enlarged structures is most likely membrane-associated, as it pellets with a membrane fraction after lysis of protoplasts (see [fig4] ) and it co-localizes with FM4-64, which is a membrane-bound dye. These results suggest that overexpression of AtSNX2b causes inhibition of FM4-64 trafficking to the vacuole, possibly by blocking the exit of material from endosomes. To confirm that the inhibition of transport of FM4-64 to the vacuole was caused by an effect on trafficking, rather than a loss of cell viability, protoplasts were transiently transformed with the GFP–AtSNX2b construct and expression allowed to proceed for up to 24 h. Fluorescence microscopy confirmed the formation of enlarged structures as above, and protoplasts were stained with the vital stain fluorescein diacetate to assay for cell viability. No difference was seen between untransformed and transformed protoplasts, and, in both cases, almost all protoplasts survived, indicating very little loss of viability ( [fig8] ). To verify that overexpression of AtSNX2b alone affects FM4-64 trafficking to the vacuolar membrane, rather than the presence of the GFP tag, an untagged AtSNX2b overexpression construct was introduced into protoplasts, followed by FM4-64 labeling as above. Similar to the effect of GFP–AtSNX2b expression, enlarged FM4-64 structures were observed in the cytoplasm, and most of the FM4-64 failed to reach the vacuolar membrane ( [fig7] ), even at later time points. This confirms that overexpression of AtSNX2b affects trafficking along the endocytic pathway to the vacuole. Biosynthetic protein trafficking to the plant vacuole occurs through at least two major pathways, and markers are available for each pathway consisting of GFP fused to an N-terminal vacuolar sorting signal (NTPP–GFP; [bib1] ) or a C-terminal vacuolar sorting signal (GFP–CTPP; [bib18] ; [bib71] ). To determine whether the overexpression of AtSNX2b inhibits either of these biosynthetic pathways in addition to endocytic trafficking, AtSNX2b was co-expressed in protoplasts with either NTPP–GFP or GFP–CTPP. At 15 h after transformation, punctate motile GFP spots were seen ( [fig9] arrows) along with a clear vacuolar NTPP–GFP or GFP–CTPP signal. By 30 h after transformation, motile GFP spots diminished and vacuolar labeling of GFP became very dominant ( [fig9] ). In protoplasts transformed with NTPP–GFP or GFP–CTPP alone, only vacuolar GFP signal was observed after 30 h. In double transformants expressing NTPP–GFP plus 35S:: AtSNX2b, non-motile GFP spots accumulated in addition to vacuolar GFP labeling after 30 h ( [fig9] arrowheads); in contrast, double transformed GFP–CTPP protoplasts did not accumulate GFP spots and only vacuolar GFP labeling was evident at the 30-h time point. These results indicate that overexpression of AtSNX2b causes accumulation of NTPP–GFP in punctate structures in addition to the vacuole, whereas no effect is seen on GFP–CTPP trafficking. To determine whether the structures accumulating NTPP–GFP upon overexpression of AtSNX2b are the same structures in which FM4-64 accumulates, protoplasts overexpressing AtSNX2b and NTPP–GFP were labeled with FM4-64. At 3 h after FM4-64 uptake, FM4-64 labeling co-localized with non-vacuolar NTPP–GFP signal; these co-localized structures persisted up to 12 h after FM4-64 uptake ( [fig9] ). This demonstrates that the NTPP–GFP-containing bodies that are the result of overexpression of AtSNX2b are endosomes. While most of the NTPP–GFP still reaches the vacuole upon AtSNX2b overexpression, these results suggest that overexpression of AtSNX2b partially interferes with the normal trafficking of NTPP–GFP ( [fig9] ). Endogenous AtSNX2b co-localizes with TGN and endosomal markers ( [fig6 fig7] ). To determine whether these markers are also present in the enlarged structures produced upon AtSNX2b overexpression, protoplasts overexpressing GFP–AtSNX2b were probed with antibodies against the TGN marker SYP41 ( [bib4] ) or the PVC marker SYP21 ( [bib12] ) followed by immunofluorescence confocal microscopy. Both SYP41 and SYP21 were present in the enlarged, GFP–AtSNX2b-containing structures and the typical punctate organelles labeled by these antibodies in wild-type cells ( [bib80] ; [bib14] ; [bib78] ) are largely absent. This indicates that these enlarged structures are likely to be aberrant membrane structures or aggregates containing markers proteins from multiple organelles ( [fig9] ).
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana seeds were surface-sterilized in 33% (v/v) bleach and 0.1% (v/v) triton X-100 solution for 20 min followed by cold treatment of at least 2 d at 4°C. Plants were grown on soil or MS solid medium (Murashige–Skoog Vitamin and Salt Mixture (Caisson Lab, Inc., North Logan, UT), 1% (w/v) sucrose (Sigma-Aldrich, St Louis, MO), 2.4 mM 2-morphinolino-ethanesulfonic acid (MES; Sigma-Aldrich, St Louis, MO) and 0.8% (w/v) phytoblend agar (Caisson Lab, Inc., North Logan, UT)) under long-day conditions with ambient light (16 h light; 100 μmol m −2 s −1 ) at 22°C. Arabidopsis thaliana suspension cell cultures were maintained as described by [bib13] . A homozygous Atsnx2b knockout (GABI_105E07) mutant line was received from the GABI-Kat mutant collection at the Max-Planck-Institute for Plant Breeding Research ( [bib66] ). The T-DNA insertion site was verified by GABI-Kat personnel by sequencing the junction between the T-DNA left border and the AtSNX2b first exon. Additional verification of the mutant allele was done by analysis of segregation of the sulfadiazine resistance marker encoded by the T-DNA insertion by growing seedlings on MS medium containing 12 mg L −1 (4-amino- N -[2-pyrimidinyl]benzene-sulfonamide-Na). Total RNA was extracted from Arabidopsis organs (3-week-old roots grown in liquid culture, and 6-week-old mature plants grown in soil for aerial organs) using the TRIzol RNA isolation method ( http://www.arabidopsis.org/portals/masc/AFGC/RevisedAFGC/site2RnaL.htm#isolation ) with DNase I treatment. cDNAs were generated using Superscript III reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA) using an oligo dT primer. Gene-specific primers were used to amplify a 1.7-kb fragment containing the complete open reading frame of AtSNX2b (At5g07120); (forward) 5′- GGATCC AAAGAAGAGATGGAGAAAC-3’ and (reverse) 5′- GGATCC AATTACACTGTGCTCTCATG-3’ or 1.8-kb fragment containing the complete open reading frame of AtSNX2a (At5g58440); (forward) 5′-ACTCCAGAGAAGTCGAAATG-3’ and (reverse) 5′-CCAAAATGAACATCGTTCAC-3′. Introduced restriction sites are underlined. For each sample, 0.25 μg of cDNA was amplified for 29 ( AtSNX2b ) or 31 ( AtSNX2a ) cycles, with an annealing temperature of 54°C. A GFP–AtSNX2b fusion was constructed using a pJ4GFP–XB vector ( [bib33] ) with modifications as described in [bib13] . A Bam HI– Bam HI fragment consisting of the coding region of the AtSNX2b cDNA (At5g07120) was amplified as above. The Bam HI-digested fragment was then sub-cloned into the modified pJ4GFP–XB digested with Bgl II. Similarly, a GFP–AtSNX2b-1 mutant fusion construct was made using a three-step PCR mutagenesis ( [bib47] ) amplifying a 233RR→LG amino acid mutation using mutation primers 5′-GTGGAGCAGCTAGGAGTTGCATTGG-3’ (forward) and 5′-CCAATGCAACTCCTAGCTGCTCCAC-3’ (reverse) in the first two steps followed by amplification of the full AtSNX2b-1 mutant using AtSNX2b -specific primers (above) and finally sub-cloning into the modified pJ4GFP–XB at the same Bgl II-digested site. GFP–PX and GFP–PX mutant fusion constructs were made using a similar procedure. A digested Bam HI– Bam HI fragment of the PX domain of AtSNX2b (amino acids 142–257) was sub-cloned into a Bgl II-digested pJ4GFP–XB to generate GFP–PX construct. The mutant PX domain (PX-1, amino acid 233RR→LG) was generated using the mutation primers (above) using the three-step PCR mutagenesis. A second PX domain mutant (PX-2, amino acid 211PP→AA) was generated through the same three-step PCR mutagenesis using primers 5′-CTGCATTGCAGCGAGGCCAGATAA-3’ (forward) and 5′-CTTATCTGGCCTCGCTGCCAATGCAG-3’ (reverse). PX primers used were 5′- GGATCC CCGAATTCCCGGGTCGA-3’ (forward) and 5′- GGATCC TCAGTCACTCAAAGCGGTAACTTCCC-3’ (reverse) for PX, PX-1, and PX-2 constructs. Restriction sites are underlined. The digested Bam HI– Bam HI PX fragment was then cloned into Bgl II-digested pJ4GFP–XB. The AtSNX2b coding region flanked by Sal I– Not I restriction sites was generated by RT–PCR from total Arabidopsis RNA using the following primers: (forward) 5′- GTCGAC TCCCATCTCCACTCATCC-3’ and (reverse) 5′- GCGGCCGC ATTACACTGTGCTCTC-3’ and sub-cloned into pET28b (Novagen, Madison WI) to produce HIS–AtSNX2b fusion plasmid. The fusion protein was synthesized in E. coli according to the Novagen protocol, where it accumulated in inclusion bodies. HIS-fusions were purified following the manufacturer's protocol using HIS·bind resin (Novagen, CAT# 70666). Cells were broken by sonication, and insoluble material was pelleted at 24 000 g . The pellet was re-suspended in 6 M urea in HIS-binding buffer for 1 h at 4°C and pelleted again by centrifugation at 24 000 g. After centrifugation, the supernatant was incubated with HIS·bind resin for 30 min and eluted with 100 mM imidazole elution buffer. The eluted protein was separated by SDS–PAGE (200 μg), cut from the gel and used to immunize rabbits. For affinity purification of antibodies, purified HIS–AtSNX2b protein was separated by SDS–PAGE, transferred to nitrocellulose, and the strip containing the fusion protein was cut out after staining with Ponceau S. After blocking in 3% (w/v) dried non-fat milk in PBS, serum was incubated with the strip for 2 h at 4°C to allow binding of the antibodies. The strip was washed with PBS and specific antibodies were eluted using 100 mM glycine, pH 2.5. The eluate was adjusted to pH 7.0 using 2 M Tris-HCl, pH 8. These affinity-purified antibodies were used in all further experiments. Wild-type PX domain and the mutant PX domain PX-1 were generated by PCR using the primers 5′- GTCGAC CGCTCTGATTACATCAAGATC-3’ (forward) and 5′- GCGGCCG CTCAAAGCGGTAACTTCCCTTGCG-3’ (reverse) from either GFP–PX or GFP–PX-1. Sal I– Not I fragments of PX and PX-1 were sub-cloned into pGEX–5X-1 (Amersham Bioscience, Piscataway, NJ) to yield GST–PX and GST–PX-1. GST–PX and GST–PX-1 fusion proteins were synthesized in E. coli according to the Novagen protocol. GST-fusions were purified using GST·bind resin (Novagen, CAT# 70541) following the manufacturer's protocol. Lipid overlay assays were performed according to [bib17] . In brief, purified GST-fusions were allowed to bind to PIP™ lipid strips (Echelon Biosciences Inc., Salt Lake, UT) followed by immunoblotting using GST antibodies (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) to detect bound GST-fusions. For suspension cells, protoplasts were prepared and transformed according to Contento et al. ( 2005). For leaf tissue, protoplasts were prepared and transformed according to [bib74] . Protoplasts were transformed with 30 μg of DNA per transformation. Images were obtained using fluorescence and confocal laser microscopy. Three-day-old Arabidopsis seedlings grown on MS solid medium were fixed following [bib77] . Plants were transferred into 5 mL of MTSB buffer (50 mM PIPES-KOH (pH 6.9), 5 mM EGTA, and 5 mM MgSO 4 ) containing 5% (v/v) dimethyl sulfoxide for 15 min at room temperature. Afterwards, they were fixed with 4% (w/v) paraformaldehyde in the above buffer containing 10% (v/v) dimethyl sulfoxide for 60 min at 20°C, with the initial 10 min under vacuum. Plants were then washed with MTSB prior to immunostaining. Immunofluorescence staining of treated Arabidopsis seedlings was performed according to [bib53] . Treated seedlings were incubated with primary antibodies in a humid chamber for 15–18 h at 4°C, washed three times for 5 min in MTSB and further incubated for 45 min–2 h at room temperature with conjugated secondary anti-rabbit or anti-mouse IgG antibodies in 3% (w/v) bovine serum albumin in MTSB. Seedlings were washed five times with MTSB and mounted with a coverslip in 50% (v/v) glycerol in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS, pH 7.4). Primary antibodies used were T7·tag monoclonal antibodies (Novagen/EMD Biosciences, Inc., La Jolla, CA; 1:100), anti-AtSNX2b antibodies (1:200) and preimmune antibodies (for AtSNX2b; 1:200). Secondary antibodies used were Alexa Fluor® 594-conjugated goat anti-rabbit IgG, Alexa Fluor® 488-conjugated goat anti-mouse IgG and Alexa Fluor® 488-conjugated goat anti-rabbit IgG or Alexa Fluor® 594-conjugated goat anti-rabbit IgG (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR, USA; 1:250). For protoplasts, transformed protoplasts were fixed in 4% (w/v) paraformaldehyde in MTSB buffer for 20 min followed by three washes with MTSBS (MTSB containing 0.4 M sorbitol) prior to immunostaining. Protoplasts were permeabilized using permeabilization solution (3% (v/v) Triton X-100, 10% (v/v) dimethyl sulfoxide in MTSB) for 20 min. Immunofluorescence staining of fixed protoplasts was performed according to [bib38] . Cells were washed five times with MTSB and mounted with a coverslip in 50% (v/v) glycerol in PBS. Antibodies used were anti-AtSNX2b antibodies (1:200), anti-SYP41 antibodies (1:200; [bib4] ), and anti-SYP21 antibodies (1:200; [bib12] ) for primary antibodies and Alexa Fluor® 488-conjugated goat anti-rabbit IgG or Alexa Fluor® 594-conjugated goat anti-rabbit IgG as secondary antibodies. Fluorescent signal detection and documentation was performed using a confocal laser scanning microscope (Leica TCS/NT, Leica Microsystems, Exton, PA, USA). The confocal laser microscope utilizes a Krypton 568-nm and Argon 488-nm laser for excitation. Filters for emission were RST588 BP525±25 (FITC-specific detection) and LP590 (TRITC-specific detection). Images were further processed for graphic presentation using Adobe Photoshop (Adobe Systems, Mountain View, CA, USA). For all experiments, controls were performed consisting of omission of both primary antibodies (to control for non-specific staining), omission of only one primary antibody (to confirm that no fluorescence bleed-through between filters was visible in double labeling), and omission of secondary antibodies or all immunochemicals (to control for fixative-induced autofluorescence). The controls confirmed the absence of non-specific fluorescence. All experiments were carried out at least three times with cells from independent preparations. Arabidopsis plants or suspension cells were homogenized in PBS, 1 mM EDTA, 0.1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride. The homogenate was centrifuged at 1000 g for 10 min at 4°C to remove cell debris and large organelles. The pellet was discarded and the supernatant was incubated in SDS-reducing sample buffer (Biorad, Hercules, CA) for 5 min at 65°C, and separated by electrophoresis on 10% SDS–PAGE gels. Proteins were electrotransferred to nitrocellulose membranes; blots were blocked with PBS/4% low-fat milk powder for at least 1 h and incubated with anti-AtSNX2b antibodies for 15–18 h at 4°C. Signal detection was achieved using peroxidase-conjugated secondary antibodies and chemiluminescence reaction followed by X-ray film exposure. For differential centrifugation, the 1000- g supernatant from suspension cells was centrifuged sequentially to produce 12 000, 39 000, and 125 000 g pellets and a 125 000- g supernatant that were analyzed by immunoblot with AtSNX2b antibodies or GFP antibodies (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). A 1000- g supernatant from suspension cells was centrifuged at 125 000 g to produce a total membrane pellet (P125). The supernatant fraction was discarded and membrane pellets were re-suspended in 200 μL of extraction buffer (PBS, 1 mM EDTA, 0.1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride) or extraction buffer containing 0.1 M Na 2 CO 3 1 M NaCl, 2 M urea, or 1% (v/v) triton X-100, and incubated for 2 h on ice. Insoluble material was pelleted at 125 000 g and pellets were re-suspended in SDS sample buffer. Supernatants were precipitated using TCA, and protein pellets were washed in acetone and re-suspended in SDS sample buffer. Samples were analyzed by SDS–PAGE and immunoblotting using AtSNX2b antibodies, or SYP41 antibodies as a control ( [bib4] ). Five-day-old Arabidopsis suspension cultures were homogenized in HKE buffer (50 mM Hepes-KOH, pH 7.5, 10 mM potassium acetate, and 1 mM EDTA) containing 400 mM Suc, 1 mM dithiothreitol, and 0.1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, and centrifuged at 1000 g for 5 min to generate a post-nuclear supernatant. The supernatant was loaded onto a sucrose step gradient as described in [bib68] . Gradients were centrifuged at 150 000 g in a swinging-bucket rotor at 4°C for 18 h. Fractions (1 mL) were collected from the top of the gradient. Protein in each fraction was analyzed by SDS–PAGE and immunoblotting. Blots were probed using antibodies against aleurain (1:2000; [bib1] ), γTIP (1:500; [bib29] ), FUM1 (fumarase; 1:500; [bib6] ), SYP21 (1:1000; [bib70] ), AtSNX2b (1:1500), and VTI12 (1:500; [bib4] ) followed by secondary antibodies conjugated to horseradish peroxidase. Protoplasts were stained with FM4-64 according to [bib81] by incubation for 10 min at 4°C with 50 μM FM4-64 in MS medium containing 0.4 M mannitol. They were washed three times with the same medium, followed by incubation at room temperature for 30 min to 12 h. Confocal microscopy was performed with a Leica TCS/NT confocal microscope (Leica Microsystems, Exton, PA, USA) as described above. Protoplasts were incubated in 50 μg mL −1 fluorescein diacetate for 30 min followed by visualization by fluorescence microscopy using a FITC filter. Counts for viable (fluorescent) and nonviable (unstained) cells were performed and recorded. Four replicates of at least 700 cells per treatment were analyzed.
