!~ABS~! The de novo biosynthesis of the triphosphopyridine NADP is catalyzed solely by the ubiquitous NAD kinase family. The Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) genome contains two genes encoding NAD+ kinases (NADKs), annotated as NADK1, NADK2, and one gene encoding a NADH kinase, NADK3, the latter isoform preferring NADH as a substrate. Here, we examined the tissue-specific and developmental expression patterns of the three NADKs using transgenic plants stably transformed with NADK promoter::glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene constructs. We observed distinct spatial and temporal patterns of GUS activity among the NADK::GUS plants. All three NADK::GUS transgenes were expressed in reproductive tissue, whereas NADK1::GUS activity was found mainly in the roots, NADK2::GUS in leaves, and NADK3::GUS was restricted primarily to leaf vasculature and lateral root primordia. We also examined the subcellular distribution of the three NADK isoforms using NADK–green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion proteins expressed transiently in Arabidopsis suspension-cultured cells. NADK1 and NADK2 were found to be localized to the cytosol and plastid stroma, respectively, consistent with previous work, whereas NADK3 localized to the peroxisomal matrix via a novel type 1 peroxisomal targeting signal. The specific subcellular and tissue distribution profiles among the three NADK isoforms and their possible non-overlapping roles in NADP(H) biosynthesis in plant cells are discussed.
!~RES~! To date, there has been only a very limited examination of NADK isoform expression patterns in Arabidopsis tissues during plant development (Turner et al. CITATION; Berrin et al. CITATION; Chai et al. CITATION). As NADK3 is not represented on the Affymetrix Arabidopsis array chip, details on its expression profile are not well documented. In order to provide a more detailed picture of tissue and cell-type NADK distribution, we conducted promoter analysis using NADK::GUS transgenic plants. These studies revealed distinct developmental and tissue-specific expression patterns among the three NADK isoforms. A total of 22 independent lines were generated for NADK1::GUS, 16 lines for NADK2::GUS, and 12 lines for NADK3::GUS. GUS activity was followed from approximately stage 0.7 seedlings to late in principal growth stage 6 (Boyes et al. CITATION). While quantitative differences in the intensity of GUS activity were seen between individual lines, the same qualitative patterns were observed. No GUS activity was observed in any control, nontransformed plants. In germinating seedlings at stage 0.7, NADK1::GUS activity was detected in the emerging radicle (Fig. 1a) and developing roots (Fig. 1d, h), whereas NADK2::GUS activity was undetectable in these early stages (Fig. 1b, e, i). NADK3::GUS activity was first observed in stage 1.0–1.02 (Fig. 1c), most notably in the procambium and vasculature of cotyledons (Fig. 1f, g, j). [[FIGURE]]  During this period, clear differences in the expression of the NADK::GUS transgenes corresponding to the three NADK isoforms became evident (Fig. 2a–c). While NADK1::GUS activity was very weak in leaves (Fig. 2d), it was much stronger in actively growing root tissue (Fig. 2e–g). Conversely, NADK2::GUS activity was strongest in photosynthetic tissue (Fig. 2h, i), while limited to vasculature of emerging root primordia (Fig. 2i–k). The most striking NADK expression pattern was seen in the leaf vasculature of NADK3::GUS plants (Fig. 2c, l–o). Interestingly, NADK3::GUS activity was strong in developing vascular tissue and weakest in more mature veins. In addition, strong but localized NADK3::GUS root expression was observed in the emerging lateral root primordia (Fig. 2p, q) and root caps up to the quiescent center (Fig. 2q), but not in the columella. [[FIGURE]]  In mature plants at stage 6 (Boyes et al. CITATION), NADK1::GUS activity was distributed throughout leaf parenchyma and was weak in the rosette and cauline leaves (Fig. 3a, d), whereas NADK2::GUS activity was much stronger in these tissues, particularly in rosette leaves (Fig. 3b, e). Consistent with the pattern observed in younger leaves, NADK3::GUS activity was absent from the primary vasculature in mature leaves but was restricted to in the secondary, tertiary, and quaternary vasculature and leaf marginal hydathode cell regions (Fig. 3c, f). [[FIGURE]]  In flowers, weak GUS activity was observed in the anthers of NADK1::GUS plants at floral growth stages 9 and 13 (Fig. 3g, j; Smyth et al. CITATION), whereas NADK2::GUS plants showed much stronger activity in both anthers and carpels at growth stages 9 and 13 (Fig. 3h, k). In contrast, NADK3::GUS activity was evident just below the stigma at growth stage 9 (Fig. 3i), the carpel vasculature at growth stages 13 and 15 (Fig. 3l, o), pollen and ovaries at floral stage 13 (Fig. 3l). In stage 15 flowers, weak but localized NADK1::GUS activity was observed within ovaries (Fig. 3m), whereas NADK2::GUS activity in this tissue was more diffuse (Fig. 3n). In contrast, NADK3::GUS activity in stage 15 flowers was strong in the stigma, pollen, carpel vasculature and was also observed in the funiculus of the ovary (Fig. 3o). Examination of GUS activity in stage 17 siliques revealed additional differences among NADK isoform expression patterns although NADK1::GUS and NADK2::GUS plants displayed some overlap in the distribution of GUS activity in developing seeds (Fig. 3p–u). Interestingly, NADK3::GUS activity was absent from seeds and was restricted to the funiculus and central vasculature (Fig. 3v). All NADK::GUS activity was below detection limits in mature seeds (data not shown). In summary, NADK1 exhibits strongest expression in roots, NADK2 in the leaves, and NADK3 in the vasculature while all NADKs exhibit some level of expression in the reproductive tissues. In an effort to shed additional light on the roles that NADKs may be playing in plants, we investigated their subcellular compartmentalization using NADK-reporter fusion proteins transiently expressed in Arabidopsis suspension-cultured cells. Toward this end, we initially confirmed previous reports (Chai et al. CITATION, CITATION) on the cytosolic and chloroplast localizations of NADK1 and NADK2, respectively (Fig. 4a–e). In addition, using differential detergent permeabilization assays, we demonstrated that NADK2 is a chloroplast stromal enzyme (Supplementary Fig. 1) and not a cytosol-facing chloroplast-associated protein as has been previously reported for this enzyme in pea (Simon et al. CITATION; Kremier et al. CITATION). The differential detergent permeabilization assays function by selectively permeabilizing either the plasma membrane, or both the plasma and organellar membranes by digitonin and Triton X-100, respectively. Digitonin permeabilization will allow the primary antibodies to enter the cytosol and bind to exposed protein epitopes in the cytosol or on the cytosol-facing organelle exteriors, e.g., the plastidic outer envelope. Triton X-100 permeabilization will allow primary antibodies to enter the cytosol as well as to access any organelle’s interior compartments to bind protein epitopes, e.g., in the plastidial stroma or peroxisomal matrix. [[FIGURE]]  With regard to NADK3, this protein has been suggested to be localized to mitochondria based on the MitoProt targeting prediction algorithm (Berrin et al. CITATION) and the localization of yeast NADHK, POS5 (Strand et al. CITATION). However, using immunoblotting on Arabidopsis subcellular fractions, we previously excluded the possibility that NADK3 was associated with mitochondria or plastids and instead is localized to the cytosol (Turner et al. CITATION). Indeed, evidence in support of this conclusion comes from another study by Chai et al. (CITATION) whereby NADK3 was demonstrated to be a cytosolic enzyme based on the localization of a transiently expressed NADK3 fusion construct consisting of GFP fused to the C-terminus of NADK3. It is also notable, however, that the C terminal sequence of NADK3 consists of the tripeptide SRY which is similar to a consensus sequence for a type 1 peroxisomal targeting signal (PTS1), i.e., small-basic-large and hydrophobic residues (Mullen CITATION; Reumann et al. CITATION; Brocard and Hartig CITATION) and, thus, this sequence, when in the context of the NADK3–GFP fusion protein employed by Chai et al. (CITATION), may have been sterically masked by the appended GFP moiety. To address this possibility and determine whether NADK3 is actually localized to peroxisomes and does so via a PTS1, we initially examined Arabidopsis cells transiently expressing NADK3 with GFP fused to either its N or C terminus. As shown in Fig. 4f–h, when GFP was appended to the N-terminus of NADK3 (GFP–NADK3), thereby leaving exposed the protein’s putative C-terminal PTS1, the expressed fusion protein specifically co-localized with the endogenous peroxisomal marker protein catalase. In contrast, when GFP was appended to the C terminus of NADK3 (NADK3–GFP) and thereby masked its putative PTS1, the fusion protein was, similar to that reported by Chai et al. (CITATION), localized exclusively throughout the cytosol (Fig. 4i) and did not co-localize with endogenous peroxisomal catalase (Fig. 4j). Using differential detergent permeabilization assays similar to those described above for NADK2 (Supplementary Fig. 1), we also demonstrated that GFP–NADK3 is actually imported into the peroxisomal matrix, consistent with the notion that the protein possesses a matrix-destined PTS1 motif. Specifically, we showed that whereas the autofluorescence attributable to the GFP moiety in GFP–NADK3 was observed in both digitonin- and Triton X-100-permeabilized GFP–NADK3-transformed cells, the fluorescence attributable to the immunostaining of GFP in GFP–NADK3 was only observed when cells were permeabilized with Triton X-100 (Fig. 5a). Likewise, endogenous matrix catalase was not immunodetectable in digitonin-permeabilized NADK3–GFP-transformed cells (Fig. 5b), whereas endogenous cytosolic α-tubulin was immunodetectable in cells permeabilized with Triton X-100 or digitonin, as expected (Fig. 5c). Overall, these results indicate that the GFP–NADK3 was imported into the peroxisomal matrix and not simply bound to the cytosolic face of the peroxisomal boundary membrane given that Triton X-100 permeabilizes all cellular membranes, whereas digitonin exclusively permeabilizes the plasma membrane (Lee et al. CITATION). [[FIGURE]]  Although the C-terminal tripeptide (-SRY-COOH) of NADK3 matches the consensus sequence for a PTS1, i.e., small-basic-large and hydrophobic residues, this sequence has not been tested experimentally to function as a PTS1 in plant cells. We therefore generated a mutant version of the GFP–NADK3 fusion construct lacking the -SRY sequence (GFP–NADK3ΔSRY) to investigate whether this sequence was necessary for the targeting of NADK3 to peroxisomes. As shown in Fig. 6a–c, GFP–NADK3ΔSRY was localized to the cytosol and did not co-localize with endogenous catalase in transiently transformed Arabidopsis cells. In contrast, when the -SRY tripeptide alone was fused to the C terminus of GFP (GFP-SRY), it directed GFP from the cytosol to the peroxisome (Fig. 6d–f), indicating that the SRY sequence is sufficient for peroxisomal targeting. However, GFP-SRY was not as efficiently targeted to peroxisomes as the full-length NADK3 (GFP–NADK3) since a proportion of the GFP-SRY fusion protein was also localized to the cytosol in transiently transformed cells (compare cells expressing GFP–NADK3 [Fig. 4f] and GFP-SRY [Fig. 6d]). Since a number of previous studies have demonstrated that the functionality of a PTS1 can be affected by the context conveyed by upstream amino acid residues or so-called PTS1 ‘accessory sequences’ (reviewed in Mullen, CITATION; Brocard and Hartig, CITATION; see also Ma and Reumann, CITATION), we next tested the effect of residues adjacent (upstream) to the SRY tripeptide in NADK3 on peroxisomal targeting. Specifically, we generated a fusion protein (GFP-HGISQIRSRY) consisting of the ten C-terminal residues from NADK3 fused to GFP. As shown in Fig. 6g–i, GFP-HGISQIRSRY, compared to GFP-SRY, was efficiently targeted to the peroxisomes, indicating that the residues upstream of the PTS1 in NADK3 function as accessory sequences that enhance the efficiency of peroxisomal targeting. [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~!  Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Columbia) suspension-cultured cells were maintained as described previously (Turner et al. CITATION; Lingard et al. CITATION). A. thaliana (ecotype Columbia) plants were grown on soil at 22°C in 150 μmol/m2/s light for 16 h daily or in Murashige and Skooge solid media at 22°C under 120 μmol/m2/s light for 16 h. Standard recombinant DNA procedures were performed as described by (Sambrook et al. CITATION). Restriction enzymes and other DNA-modifying enzymes were purchased from MBI-Fermentas (Burlington, ON, Canada), and custom synthetic oligonucleotides were purchased from Sigma (Oakville, ON, Canada). Polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based site-directed mutagenesis of plasmid DNA was performed using the QuikChange site-directed mutagenesis kit according to the manufacturer’s recommendations (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA, USA). Isolation of DNA fragments and plasmids was performed using Qiagen (Mississauga, ON, Canada) or Promega (Fisher Scientific, Nepean, ON, Canada) reagents. All DNA constructs were confirmed by DNA sequencing (Genome Quebec, Montreal, Quebec or University of Guelph Molecular Supercenter, Guelph, Canada). The three NADK promoter and 5′ untranslated regions (UTRs) were amplified by PCR and cloned into either the Sal1/BamH1 sites of the binary vector pBI101 (Clontech, Moutain View, CA, USA) or the HindIII/BamH1 sites of the binary vector pBI121 (Clontech), both of which carry the uid (GUS) gene. Oligonucleotide primer sequences for these PCRs are listed in Supplementary Table 1. Oligonucleotide primers were designed for PCR-based amplification of the genomic region upstream of the translation initiation codon for each NADK isoform. Primers also introduced the appropriate restriction endonuclease sites (i.e., Sal1/BamHI or HindIII/BamHI) at the 5′- and 3′-ends of the NADK sequences for subcloning purposes (Supplementary Table 1). The NADK1::GUS construct was created by fusing 2 kb of the NADK1 promoter (−1975 to −1 bp upstream of the NADK1 initiation codon) to the bacterial uid gene of pBI101. The NADK2::GUS construct was created by fusing the entire intergenic region (923 bp) upstream of NADK2 to the GUS gene of pBI121. The NADK3::GUS construct was created by fusing the 2-kb promoter (−2040 bp to −1 bp upstream of the NADK3 initiation codon) to the GUS gene of pBI101. Plasmids containing the NADK::GUS reporter genes were then introduced into Arabidopsis by Agrobacterium tumefaciens (LBA4404)-mediated transformation of floral tissue (Clough and Bent, CITATION). Homozygous transgenic lines were selected using kanamycin and analyzed for GUS activity (Hemerly et al. CITATION). Developmental patterns of promoter-driven GUS activity were analyzed in T2 and T3 plants using a Carl Zeiss SteReo Discovery v12 (Toronto, ON, Canada) or a Leica S6D (Bannockburn, IL, USA) equipped with a Nikon CoolPix 4500 digital camera (Missassauga, ON, Canada). At least 12 independent lines for each NADK::GUS construct were examined.  NADK1, 2 and 3 full-length open reading frames (ORFs) were amplified by PCR from cDNA templates using the appropriate olionucleotide primer pairs listed in Supplementary Tables 2 to 4. The PCR product of NADK3 was cloned into pBluescript II SK(+) (Stratagene) and NADK2 was cloned into pCR2.1 (Invitrogen, Burlington, ON, Canada) using the TOPO-TA cloning kit (Invitrogen). The destination transient-expression vectors are indicated in the Supplementary Tables except for those used in the construction of the plasmids GFP-SRY, and GFP-HGISQIRSRY. GFP-SRY was constructed by inserting sequences coding for the NADK3 C-terminal tripeptide (-SRY-COOH) and a stop codon to the 3′ end of the GFP ORF using PCR-based site-directed mutagenesis with pRTL2/GFP (Lisenbee et al. CITATION) as template DNA and the complementary mutagenic forward and reverse primer pair listed in Table 4S. GFP-HGISQIRSRY was constructed in a similar fashion by inserting (via PCR site-directed mutagenesis) sequences encoding for the NADK3 C-terminal residues-HGISQIR-(residues -4 to -10), between the 3′ end of the GFP ORF and the 5′ end of the -SRY-COOH sequence, using pRTL2/GFP-SRY as template DNA and the appropriate complementary forward and reverse mutagenic primers (Supplementary Table 4). The construction of pUC18/recA-CAT, consisting of the N-terminal 51-amino acid-long chloroplast reccA gene fused to the N terminus of bacterial chloroamphenicol acyltransferase (CAT) has been described previously (Clark et al. CITATION).  Arabidopsis suspension-cultured cells were transiently transformed with 10 µg of plasmid DNA by using a biolistic particle delivery system 1000/HE (BioRad, Mississauga, ON, Canada) as in Lingard et al. (CITATION). Bombarded cells were incubated for up to 20 h to permit expression and sorting of NADK–GFP reporter constructs before formaldehyde fixation, incubation with 0.03% (w/v) cellulysin (Calbiochem) and 0.1% (w/v) pectinase (Sigma-Aldrich), and then permeabilization with either 0.3% (v/v) Triton X-100 or 25 μg ml−1 digitonin (Sigma-Aldrich) (Lingard et al. CITATION). Fixed and permeabilized cells were then incubated with the appropriate primary and secondary antibodies. Antibodies and sources were as follows: rabbit anti-GFP IgGs (Molecular Probes, Burlington, ON, Canada); mouse anti-GFP IgGs (Clontech); mouse anti-maize β-ATPase (provided by Tom Elthon, University of Nebraska; Luethy et al. CITATION); rabbit anti-chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) IgGs (Sigma-Aldrich); mouse anti-CAT hybridoma medium (provided by S. Subramani, University of California, San Diego); mouse anti-α-tubulin IgGs (Sigma-Aldrich); mouse anti-polyhistidine IgGs (Sigma-Aldrich); rabbit anti-cottonseed catalase IgGs (Kunce et al. CITATION); goat anti-rabbit rhodamine red-X IgGs (Jackson ImmunoResearch Laboratories, West Grove, PA, USA); and goat anti-mouse Alexa 350 (Molecular Probes). MitoTracker (Invitrogen) and Concanavalin A (ConA) conjugated to Alexa 594 (Molecular Probes, Burlington, ON, Canada) were used according to manufacturers’ instructions. Epifluorescent images of Arabidopsis cells were acquired using a Zeiss Axioscope 2 MOT epifluorescence microscope (Carl Zeiss Inc., Thornwood, NY, USA) with a Zeiss 63x Plan Apochromat oil-immersion objective. Image capture was performed using a Retiga 1300 charge-coupled device camera (Qimaging, Burnaby, BC, Canada) and Northern Eclipse 5.0 software (Empix Imaging Inc., Mississauga, ON, Canada). CLSM images of Arabidopsis cells were acquired using a Leica DM RBE (Leica Microsystems Inc., Richmond Hill, ON, Canada) microscope with a Leica 63x Plan Apochromat oil-immersion objective a Leica TCS SP2 scanning head, and the Leica TCS NT software package (version 2.61). Fluorophore emissions were collected sequentially in double-labeling experiments; single-labeling experiments exhibited no detectable crossover at the settings used for data collections. Confocal images were acquired as single optical sections and saved as 512 × 512 pixel digital images. All fluorescence images of cells shown in the figures are representative of >50 independent (transient) transformations from at least two independent transformation experiments. Controls included omitting primary antibodies and mock transformations with vector (pRTL2) alone. Figure compositions were generated using Adobe Photoshop CS (Adobe Systems Inc., Toronto, ON, Canada).
