!~ABS~! Tonoplast intrinsic proteins (TIPs) are widely used as markers for vacuolar compartments in higher plants. Ten TIP isoforms are encoded by the Arabidopsis genome. For several isoforms, the tissue and cell specific pattern of expression are not known. We generated fluorescent protein fusions to the genomic sequences of all members of the Arabidopsis TIP family whose expression is predicted to occur in root tissues (TIP1;1 and 1;2; TIP2;1, 2;2 and 2;3; TIP4;1) and expressed these fusions, both individually and in selected pairwise combinations, in transgenic Arabidopsis. Analysis by confocal microscopy revealed that TIP distribution varied between different cell layers within the root axis, with extensive co-expression of some TIPs and more restricted expression patterns for other isoforms. TIP isoforms whose expression overlapped appeared to localise to the tonoplast of the central vacuole, vacuolar bulbs and smaller, uncharacterised structures. We have produced a comprehensive atlas of TIP expression in Arabidopsis roots, which reveals novel expression patterns for not previously studied TIPs.
!~RES~! In addition to the fluorescent TIP reporters we generated previously for TIP1;1 (γ-TIP1; At2g36830) and TIP2;1 (δ-TIP1; At3g16240) [[B14]], we cloned the genomic sequences of not previously studied isoforms: TIP1:2 (γ-TIP2; At3g26520), TIP2;2, TIP2;3 (δ-TIP2 and δ-TIP3; At4g17340 and At5g47450) and TIP4;1 (ε-TIP; At2g25810). We produced chimeric constructs in which either YFP or monomeric RFP were fused in frame to the C-terminus of each TIP genomic sequence (including their promoter regions, 5' UTR and introns), and generated transgenic plants which were analysed for TIP-XFP expression patterns by confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM). We first observed TIP-YFP expression at low magnification. 8-day old roots from seedlings expressing individual YFP-tagged TIPs were stained with propidium iodide and analysed by CLSM. With the possible exception of TIP1;2, no YFP-tagged TIP isoforms yielded a detectable signal in the root cap or meristem (Fig. [F1], panels A to F). In general, TIP-YFP expression initiates at the elongation zone. While TIP1;1-YFP and TIP4;1-YFP are detectable from the base of the elongation zone (panels A and F), TIP2;2-YFP and TIP2;3-YFP expression is first observed at the zone of transition with the differentiation zone (panels D and E). The onset of fluorescence occurs in different cell types depending on the isoforms. TIP1;1-YFP is initially visible in endodermal cells, before extending to every cell type in the differentiation zone (Fig. [F1], compare panels A and G). This pattern is faithfully replicated in lateral roots (Fig. [F1]). TIP1;1 expression is strongest at the differentiation zone (Fig. [F1]). TIP2;2-YFP becomes first detectable in the cortex and epidermis, but its expression extends to the pericycle as the root matures (Fig. [F1], compare panels D and J). TIP2;3-YFP has a similarly widespread distribution in more mature root axes but its expression initiates in the pericycle, then extends to cortex and epidermal cells (Fig. [F1], panels E and K). Again, the initial expression patterns of TIP2;2 and TIP2;3 are mirrored in the lateral roots (Fig [F1], panels P and Q). In contrast to the previous isoforms, TIP4;1-YFP is only expressed in epidermal and (less strongly) in cortical cells of the differentiation zone (Fig. [F1], panels F and L), with fluorescence decreasing in more mature parts of the root where lateral roots emerge (Fig. [F1]). Expression patterns of TIP isoforms in Arabidopsis roots. 8-day old roots from the indicated transgenic lines were excised, stained with propidium iodide for 2 min and visualised by CLSM. The images show representative results for each construct. The signals from YFP (green) and propidium iodide fluorescence (red) are merged. Top panels: single optical sections of the root tips, Middle panels: single optical sections of root differentiation zones. Bottom panels: maximal projection of 16 optical z sections (4 μm step-size) through mature root axes and young lateral roots. Scale bars: 100 μm. In the case of TIP1;2, expression seems to be exclusively limited to the root cap and the columella (Fig. [F1]). A very limited YFP signal can also be detected in the same region of the young lateral root (Fig [F1], arrowhead) and in older lateral roots (Additional file [S1]). Perhaps the most remarkable expression pattern observed is that of TIP2;1, which in 8-day old roots is only detectable in a small region at the base of the lateral roots (Fig. [F1], arrowhead). Having identified the general patterns of expression of the different isoforms at low magnification, we then studied the cell-specificity of TIP-YFP expression in more detail. We analysed propidium iodide -stained roots by CLSM by performing optical z-sections through differentiation zones at 63× magnification (Fig. [F2]). Cell-type specificity of TIP-YFP expression in the root axis. 8-day old roots from the indicated transgenic lines were excised, stained with propidium iodide for 2 min and visualised by CLSM. Stacks of 80 optical z sections (1 μm step-size) were collected from root axes at the differentiation zone. The images show representative results for each construct. A to F: for each panel, the top section shows a single xy optical section, and the bottom section shows the xz projection of the whole image stack, revealing the cross section of the root axis. The signals from YFP fluorescence (green) and propidium iodide fluorescence (red) are merged. G and H: the YFP fluorescence trace from representative image stacks for the indicated transgenic lines was reconstructed, segmented and rendered in 3D with Mimics 12.1. The different tissues are colour-coded as follows: brown, epidermis; red, cortex; blue, endodermis; green, pericycle. Ep, epidermis; c, cortex; e, endodermis; p, pericycle; x, xylem. Scale bar: 20 μm. TIP1;1-YFP is clearly expressed in epidermis and cortex, but its expression is particularly strong in the endodermis and pericycle (Fig. [F2]). Here TIP1;1-YFP highlights numerous bright circular structures in the lumen of the central vacuole. We hypothesise these are vacuolar 'bulbs', which have previously been described as tonoplast invaginations, which occur independently of the ectopic expression of XFP-tagged membrane proteins, and where TIP1;1-GFP is concentrated [[B18],[B19]]. It is however difficult in some cases to observe a continuity between these structures and the central vacuole tonoplast. At higher magnification, the overlapping patterns of expression of TIP2;2-YFP and TIP2;3-YFP are confirmed. Both are present in pericycle cells, particularly in the rows of pericycle cells that form the xylem poles [[B20]]. Both TIP-YFPs tend to be absent from the endodermis (Fig. [F2], panels B and D), although we could detect discontinuous endodermal expression at various positions along most root axes (Fig. [F2], panels C and E; and highlighted in blue in panels G and H). In contrast to the previous isoforms labelling inner root cell layers, TIP4;1 expression is clearly restricted to the root epidermis and cortex, with no signal detectable in the inner layers (Fig. [F2]). Having analysed the TIPs with the broadest expression patterns, we focussed on the two TIPs which seem to have a more limited expression range in roots. TIP1;2-YFP presented a patchy distribution in cells of the root cap (Fig [F1]). To ascertain that this was not an artefact due to expression of our chimeric gene, we also generated a construct (YFP-TIP1;2) where YFP was fused downstream of the promoter and 5'UTR and in frame with the 5' of the TIP coding sequence. In transgenic plants, YFP-TIP1;2 presents a similar expression pattern to TIP1;2-YFP, thus ruling out YFP fusion artefacts (compare Fig. [F3] with Fig. [F1]). Expression is confined to the columella and the lateral root cap [[B21]], with the labelled cells disappearing at the boundary with the elongation zone (Fig. [F3]). Some of the labelled cells are in the process of detaching from the root (Fig. [F3], panels C and F, arrowheads), suggesting that they may correspond to 'border-like' cells [[B22]]. The distribution of YFP-TIP1;2 is therefore radically different to that observed for its paralogue, TIP1;1-YFP, which has the widest pattern of expression but is excluded from the root tip, including the root cap (Fig. [F1], panels A to M). YFP-TIP1;2 is expressed in the root cap. 8-day old roots from the indicated transgenic lines were excised, stained with propidium iodide for 2 min and visualised by CLSM. Stacks of 80 optical z sections (1 μm step-size) were collected from root tips. The images show a representative result for this construct. The signals from YFP fluorescence (green) and propidium iodide fluorescence (red) are merged. A: maximal 3D projection of the root tip at the base of the elongation zone. The image shows two adjacent z-stacks of the same root, separated by a black line. B and C: xz projections of the image stack in panel a, revealing two cross-sections of the root axis, taken in the regions of the root indicated by the arrowheads in A. D and E: the regions indicated by dotted boxes in A were observed at high magnification. Single optical sections are shown. Note YFP-TIP1;2 in the ER of young root cap cells and in the tonoplast of root cap cells closer to the elongation zone. F: The fluorescent traces from YFP (green) and propidium iodide (red) from the image stack in panels A were reconstructed, segmented and rendered in 3D with Mimics 12.1. Scale bars: (a), 20 μm; (d) and (e), 10 μm. At the subcellular level, YFP-TIP1;2 localises to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) of young root cap cells (Fig [F3]: note the characteristic reticular pattern and the nuclear envelope; see also Additional file [S1]). The chimeric protein is mostly found on the tonoplast of elongated lateral root cap cells (Fig. [F3]). This is likely to reflect different stages of TIP1;2 trafficking in cells of different ages, rather than impaired capacity to reach the tonoplast. This is further demonstrated by the fact that in the epidermis of cotyledonary cells, where TIP1;2 is uniformly expressed, the fusion protein appears to localise to the tonoplast (Additional file [S1]). We have previously shown that TIP2;1 expression becomes detectable in old root regions nearing the hypocotyl, and is then widespread in hypocotyl and cotyledonary leaves [[B14]]. We did not initially notice expression in young roots, but closer analysis revealed that in 8-day old roots TIP2;1-YFP has a very specialised expression pattern (Fig. [F4]). The YFP signal is detected in a ring-like cluster at the base of emerging lateral roots (Fig. [F4], panels A-D). In very early lateral root primordia (LRP), TIP2;1 expression is detectable in 2-4 cells at the LRP. As the LRP grows further, the number of cells expressing TIP2;1-YFP increases but remains confined to a cluster underlying the base the lateral root (Fig. [F4], panels F-I). In rare cases, when the lateral root is fully emerged, the expression of TIP2;1-YFP can extend to some cells within the lateral root axis (Fig [F4]). Co-labelling with propidium iodide shows that the TIP2;1 expressing cells are located in close proximity to the xylem (fig. [F4]), suggesting a pericycle localisation. Co-expression with TIP2;3-RFP, which we found to be enriched in the pericycle (Fig. [F2], panels D, E, H) confirms that TIP2;1-YFP expression originates from pericycle cells (Fig. [F4], panels F-I). This indicates that the initial expression of TIP2;1-YFP is likely to occur in the LRP founder cells. Remarkably, the expression of TIP2;1-YFP and TIP2;3-RFP appears to be mutually exclusive, with a clear boundary between cells expressing one or the other isoform (Fig. [F4], inset; see Additional file [S2] for individual channels). TIP 2;1-YFP expression in lateral root primordia. A-E: 8-day old roots from TIP2;1-YFP transgenic seedlings were excised, stained with propidium iodide and visualised by CLSM. Stacks of 80 optical z sections (1 μm step-size) were collected from mature root axes. The images show representative results for this construct. Maximal projections of the z-stacks are shown, with the individual signals for YFP (A), propidium iodide (B) or the merged signals (C and D). E: The fluorescent traces from YFP (green) and propidium iodide (red) from the image stack in panels (A-C) was reconstructed, segmented and rendered in 3D with Mimics 12.1. Note that the TIP2;1-YFP-expressing cells are in close proximity to the xylem (labelled with x). F-I: Roots from 8-day old transgenic seedlings expressing TIP2;1-YFP (green) and TIP2;3-RFP (red) were imaged. Sequential stages of lateral root development are shown. Inset in H: note the boundary between pericycle cells expressing TIP2;3-RFP (top) and TIP2;1-YFP (bottom). Scale bars: 20 μm. We have shown that the various TIP isoforms under study present diverse tissue specificity within roots. Several isoforms, however, are co-expressed in certain tissues, namely TIP1;1, TIP2;2, TIP2;3, and TIP4;1. In order to ascertain whether these isoforms were specific to distinct vacuolar compartments, we focused on the subcellular localisation of selected pairs of the above isoforms, tagged with different spectral variants of fluorescent proteins and co-expressed in transgenic Arabidopsis (Fig. [F5]). Overlapping TIP isoforms are mainly detected at the tonoplast of the central vacuole. Transgenic seedlings co-expressing the indicated TIP-YFP and TIP-RFP constructs were grown for 8 days on MS medium--agar plates. Roots were excised and visualised by CLSM. (A, D, G, J): YFP fluorescence (green); (B, E, H, K): RFP fluorescence (red); (C, F, I, L): merged images. Arrowheads in panel I indicate structures labelled by TIP2;3-RFP but not TIP2;2-YFP. Scale bars:10 μm. The individual TIP expression patterns in double transgenic lines mirrored those observed in the lines expressing individual isoforms (Additional file [S3]). The widespread TIP1;1-YFP and TIP2;3-RFP are co-expressed in epidermis, cortex and pericycle cells (Fig. [F2]). In these tissues, both proteins are detected on the tonoplast of the central vacuole (Fig. [F5]). Both the tonoplast and the smaller, bulb-like vacuolar structures [[B18]] are labelled. Likewise, TIP2;2-YFP and TIP1;1-RFP mostly label the same tonoplast in the cell layers where they are co-expressed (Fig. [F5]). TIP2;2-YFP and TIP2;3-RFP, which almost overlap in root tissues (Fig. [F2]), are also co-localised on tonoplast and 'bulbs' (Fig. [F5]). Occasionally, TIP2;3-RFP highlighted smaller vesicular structures that did not appear to contain TIP2;2-YFP (Fig [F5], arrowheads). The nature of these structures was not investigated further. Finally, TIP4;1-YFP, which is restricted to epidermis and cortex (Fig. [F2]), co-localises with TIP2;3 in those tissues (Fig. [F5]). Note that the relative abundance of these two isoforms mirrors the pattern observed in single isoform localisation, with TIP4;1 expression being strongest in the epidermis and weaker in the cortex (Fig. [F2]), and TIP2;3 expression being stronger in cortex but weaker in epidermis (Fig. [F2], panels D-E). Taken together, these co-expression results indicate that each TIP isoform-fluorescent protein fusion we analysed is predominantly found at the central vacuole tonoplast in Arabidopsis root tissues.
!~MM~! The constructs encoding native TIP1;1-YFP and native TIP2;1YFP have been described previously [[B14]]. A full list of primers designed to amplify the genomic sequences of the root-expressed TIPs is shown in Additional file [S5]. Each TIP genomic sequence, including either the complete promoter region (up to the UTR of the gene immediately upstream in the chromosome) or 1.5 Kb of the promoter (if longer than 1.5 Kb), plus 5' UTR and introns, was amplified from total genomic DNA from Arabidopsis thaliana Columbia ecotype. Primers included restriction sites KpnI at the 5' and XhoI at the 3' of the target sequences. Amplified fragments were cloned into the KpnI and XhoI sites of pGREEN0029, upstream of a XhoI/SacI fragment containing the YFP coding sequence and the OCS 3' terminator fragment. A similar strategy was adopted to fuse TIP sequences to RFP, but in this case the forward primers included both KpnI and SacI restriction sites, generating a TIP-RFP cassette that could be mobilized with SacI. To obtain pairwise TIP-YFP/TIP-RFP combinations, selected TIP-RFP cassettes were excised with SacI and ligated into TIP-YFP vectors linearised with SacI, giving rise to constructs harbouring both reporter genes in a tandem. All the chimeric constructs were introduced into strain C58 of Agrobacterium tumefaciens harbouring the pSoup vector [[B31]]. Arabidopsis plants were then transformed using the floral dip method [[B32]]. About 30 seeds from at least 4 independent transgenic lines per construct were germinated onto agar plates containing half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) Basal Medium (Sigma-Aldrich) and grown for 8 days at 22°C, in a 16:8 light:dark regime. Roots were excised, mounted in half-strength liquid MS medium and immediately observed with a Leica TSC SP5 confocal laser scanning microscope, using either a 10× (NA 0.3) air or a 63× (NA 1.4) oil immersion objective. In some cases roots were preincubated for 2 min in 10 μg/ml propidium iodide, diluted in half-strength MS medium. YFP was excited at 514 nm and detected in the 525 to 550 nm range. RFP was excited at 561 nm and detected in the 553 to 638 nm range. Propidium iodide was excited at 561 nm and detected in the 650 to 720 nm range. Simultaneous detection of YFP and RFP or YFP and propidium iodide was performed by combining the settings indicated above in the sequential scanning facility of the microscope, as instructed by the manufacturer. 3D reconstruction of z-stacks of optical sections was performed with the Leica LAS-AF Lite free software (Leica Microsystems, Germany). Segmentation analysis and 3D rendering were performed with Mimics 12.1 (Materialise N.V., Leuwen, Belgium).
