!~ABS~! To obtain a global overview of how mitochondria respond to stress, we aimed to define the plant mitochondrial stress response (MSR). By combining a set of 1196 Arabidopsis thaliana genes that putatively encode mitochondrial proteins with 16 microarray experiments on stress-related conditions, 45 nuclear encoded genes were defined as widely stress-responsive. Using green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion assays, the mitochondrial targeting of a large number of these proteins was tested, confirming in total 26 proteins as mitochondrially targeted. Several of these proteins were observed to be dual targeted to mitochondria and plastids, including the small heat shock proteins sHSP23.5 and sHSP23.6. In addition to the well defined stress components of mitochondria, such as alternative oxidases, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD(P)H) dehydrogenases, and heat shock proteins, a variety of other proteins, many with unknown function, were identified. The mitochondrial carrier protein family was over-represented in the stress-responsive genes, suggesting that stress induces altered needs for metabolite transport across the mitochondrial inner membrane. Although the genes encoding many of these proteins contain common cis -acting regulatory elements, it was apparent that a number of distinct regulatory processes or signals likely triggered the MSR. Therefore, these genes provide new model systems to study mitochondrial retrograde regulation, in addition to the widely used alternative oxidase model. Additionally, as changes in proteins responsive to stress did not correlate well with changes at a transcript level, it suggests that post-transcriptional mechanisms also play an important role in defining the MSR.
!~RES~! The aim of this study was to identify genes coding for mitochondrial proteins that were responsive to a wide array of stress conditions. Therefore, a bipartite approach was undertaken: first, to identify genes that putatively encode mitochondrial proteins, and, second, to identify which of these genes respond significantly to a variety of stress conditions using publicly available high-quality microarray datasets. To obtain a comprehensive list of Arabidopsis thaliana genes coding for mitochondrially located proteins, we queried the SUB-cellular location database of Arabidopsis proteins (SUBA; [bib20] ) for proteins that were (1) predicted or (2) experimentally shown to be located in mitochondria. Prediction yielded 630 genes that putatively encode mitochondrial proteins, while experimental approaches using mass spectrometry (MS) or green fluorescent protein tagging (GFP) yielded 470 and 131 genes, respectively. Together, they produced a non-redundant set of 1196 genes putatively encoding mitochondrial proteins for which probe sets are present on the Affymetrix ATH1 Genechip. Some of the ATH1 probe sets can detect more than one highly similar gene product, so the 1196 genes were covered by 1123 probe sets, indicating a relatively low rate of probe set redundancy (6.5%). A full list of the selected genes is shown in [sec1] . The second step was to make a selection of high-quality Arabidopsis microarray datasets that covered a range of different conditions that impose or are related to stress conditions. Based on a number of marker genes encoding mitochondrial proteins for which a widespread stress-responsiveness had been demonstrated in the past, such as AOX1a and NDB2 ( [bib9] ; [bib22] ), the web tool GENEVESTIGATOR was used to browse publicly available microarray datasets ( [bib72] ). This led to the selection of experiments related to abiotic stress conditions (salt, osmotic stress, heat, and UV irradiation), ROS treatment (H 2 O 2 and ozone), chemical inhibitors (rotenone: Complex I; PNO8: photosystem II, cycloheximide: translation), and hormone-related treatments (abscisic acid, salicylic acid, triiodobenzoic acid). Raw data files for these experiments were collected and normalized (see Methods for details). Additionally, ROS-related datasets from catalase-deficient mutants treated with high light and a chloroplastic Cu/Zn–SOD mutant were collected ( [bib71] ; [bib45] ), as these had been used previously to define hallmarks of responses to oxidative stress ( [bib14] ). In total, 16 different ATH1 datasets were collected, some of which were single comparisons to control, while some were more elaborate time course experiments. After normalization and statistical analysis, the profiles of the 1123 probe sets that detect expression of the putatively mitochondrial proteins were compiled ( [sec1] ). A probe set was defined as differentially responsive in a specific experiment when its expression was significantly changed ( p < 0.05 for single comparisons, coefficient of variance > 0.6 for time course experiments) and the proportion of change was at least two-fold. Almost 62% of the probe sets were responsive in at least one of the 16 conditions, while about one in three probe sets (36%) was responsive in multiple conditions. Our objective was to obtain a list of genes coding for mitochondrial proteins that were responsive to a wide range of stresses, so a final selection of 43 probe sets (45 genes) that were responsive in at least half of the 16 conditions was retained ( [tbl1] and [sec1] ). The most widely responsive genes were annotated as a BCS1-like AAA-type ATPase ( At3g50930 ), an expressed protein ( At2g41730 ), AOX1a ( At3g22370 ), and NDB2 ( At4g05020 ) that were responsive to 12 out of 16 conditions. Note that no transcripts from mitochondrially encoded proteins were found to be widely stress-responsive. However, as labeling of RNA for detection of transcript abundance involves oligo-dT primers, and poly-adenylation is not a normal feature of mitochondrial transcripts, though it can signal degradation ( [bib23] ), it is not unexpected that they were not detected adequately using this approach. Furthermore, transcript abundance for mitochondrially located genes has been proposed to be regulated by post-transcriptional mechanisms, such as splicing, editing, and translation ( [bib16] ). The gene expression patterns demonstrated in this study were obtained from various experiments under different growth conditions and developmental stages, and further validation of stress-induced changes in transcript will be a valuable confirmation. Nevertheless, for several of the genes identified in this study, stress-induced expression has been reported extensively in other studies by quantitative PCR methods ( [bib22] ; [bib9] ), underlining the validity of the microarray data. As, for over half of the proteins, the putative mitochondrial location is based on prediction alone, where accuracy compared to experimental approaches can be less than 50% ( [bib67] ), it was necessary to verify their predicted mitochondrial localization. Furthermore, a mitochondrial location determined by sub-cellular proteomics approaches may still contain some non-mitochondrial proteins due to contamination with other cellular compartments, mainly plastids and peroxisomes ( [bib66] ; [bib35] ). To validate the mitochondrial location of the proteins for which the mitochondrial localization was not experimentally determined by two approaches or generally accepted due to detailed biochemical studies, GFP localization assays were performed for 34 proteins ( [tbl1] ). Coding sequences (CDS) were amplified from Arabidopsis cDNA and cloned into GFP fusion vectors. We were unable to amplify the corresponding cDNA for At4g28390 , a mitochondrial carrier family protein. For all genes, C-terminal GFP fusions were constructed (CDS–GFP) and, in specific cases, also N-terminal fusions (GFP–CDS). The GFP fusion vectors were then transformed into Arabidopsis cell culture cells and onion epidermal cells, together with an AOX transit peptide-red fluorescent protein (AOX–RFP) fusion construct as mitochondrial marker for co-localization in Arabidopsis cell culture ( [bib5] ). In summary, for 19 out of 34 proteins, a mitochondrial location could be confirmed, while other proteins were found to be located in the cytosol, nucleus, plastids (mitochondrial transcription termination factor At2g34620 ), peroxisomes (mitochondrial substrate carrier family protein At5g27520 ), and endomembrane system (leucine-rich repeat (LRR) protein kinases At1g74360 and At4g04220 ; expressed protein At3g10930 ; [tbl1] and [sec1] ). For At5g61810 , a mitochondrial carrier family protein, GFP targeting in mitochondria could only be found for the At5g61810.2 splice variant. Note that in the case of the mitochondrial substrate carrier family protein At5g27520 , it has recently also been shown to be located in peroxisomes in an independent study ( [bib32] ). Interestingly, dual targeting to mitochondria and plastids was observed for several proteins: At5g38710 , proline oxidase PRO2; At5g16200 , 50S ribosomal protein-related; At4g36850 , AAA ATPase; At1g21400 , 2-oxoisovalerate dehydrogenase ( [fig2] ). For two proteins, dual targeting was only apparent in onion cells: At5g55200 , GrpE co-chaperone; At4g30490 , AFG1-like ATPase ( [fig2] ). Surprisingly, also the small heat shock proteins sHSP23.5 and sHSP23.6 appear to be dual targeted to mitochondria and chloroplasts, although they had previously been assumed to be only mitochondrial ( [bib49] ). For At2g41380 , an embryo-abundant protein, dual targeting to both mitochondria and nucleus could be observed ( [fig2] ). To summarize the expression profiles of the 26 genes for which a mitochondrial localization was experimentally confirmed as outlined above, we used hierarchical clustering of the expression values in the 16 selected microarray datasets and visualized them in a heat map ( [fig3] ). In all conditions, a clear trend of up-regulation was evident, and only heat, osmotic stress, and mutants in (catalase) CAT2 or Cu/Zn-SOD displayed a decrease in transcript abundance for several genes ( [fig3] and [sec1] ). Treatments that are often considered to be physiologically comparable, such as salt and osmotic stress, do not always result in a similar transcriptomic response, as indicated by their relatively large distance in the sample tree. For example, it can be observed that UPOX ( up -regulated by ox idative stress At2g21640) and sHSP23.5 ( At5g51440 ) are strongly down-regulated during osmotic stress, while up-regulated during salt stress. Similar results have been seen in the response of enzymes of the ascorbate–glutathione cycle, which showed increased activity during high salinity ( [bib21] ) and decreased activity during drought ( [bib26] ). In other cases, comparable treatments did cluster together, such as heat treatment of seedlings and cell cultures. Furthermore, treatment with H 2 O 2 resulted in similar expression profiles as the catalase-deficient plants that accumulate peroxisomal H 2 O 2 during the high light treatment. Interestingly, treatment with Complex I inhibitor rotenone and the phytohormone salicylic acid (SA) resulted in similar expression patterns. This may be explained by the fact that also SA has been shown to inhibit Complex I activity ( [bib40] ). In terms of gene-specific expression patterns, the clustering analysis reveals further correlations that may have functional implications. The two homologous small heat shock proteins sHSP23.5 ( At5g51440 ) and sHSP23.6 ( At4g25200 ) are highly co-expressed, indicating they may form a functional pair and both are needed for stabilizing mitochondrial proteins, and possibly plastidic proteins during stress conditions. Small heat shock proteins have previously been shown to dimerize, so sHSP23.5 and sHSP23.6 may dimerize to be functional ( [bib52] ). Two additional heat shock proteins, HSP98.7 ( At2g25140 ) and HSC70 -5 ( At5g09590 ), are very similarly expressed. Although their expression patterns are partially divergent from the small heat shock proteins, it appears more closely related to the GrpE co-chaperone At5g55200 . In yeast, a mitochondrial GrpE co-chaperone has been shown to interact with HSP70 and is essential for viability ( [bib3] ), so the apparent co-expression of Arabidopsis homologs suggests a similar functional relationship. Besides heat shock proteins, members of the alternative respiratory pathway AOX1a ( At3g22370 ) and NDB2 ( At4g05020 ) cluster together. Together, these proteins can form a complete respiratory chain, dissipating energy as heat and not contributing to ATP synthesis, and their strong co-expression has been documented previously ( [bib9] ). Furthermore, the presence of similar CAREs in their promoters indicates a high degree of co-regulation ( [bib22] ), further confirming that the observed expression patterns of MSR genes ( [fig3] ) are at least partially regulated by underlying co-regulation mechanisms. In addition to NDB2 that oxidises cytosolic NAD(P)H, a matrix facing ND, NDA2 ( At2g29990 ) that is dual-targeted to mitochondria and peroxisomes ( [bib6] ), is co-expressed with AOX1a. This suggests that stress conditions impose an additional need for NADH reduction from both cytosol and mitochondria. Using the TAIR Gene Ontology (GO) annotations, we looked for GO terms that were significantly over-represented in our final selection as compared to the whole Arabidopsis genome. As expected, GO terms for sub-cellular location mitochondria ( p < 0.0001) and response to stress ( p < 0.002) were strongly over-represented. The GO annotation electron transport and energy pathways was also over-represented ( p < 0.05). This can be attributed to the presence of alternative ETC components AOX1a , NDA2 , NDB2 , and QCR7 , a 14-kDa putative Complex III subunit. Furthermore, the GO term transport is significantly over-represented ( p < 0.05) with the presence of six members of the mitochondrial substrate carrier protein family (MCFs). The abundance of a protein in the cell is determined by a multitude of factors, including transcription rate, mRNA stability, translation initiation rate, protein stability, and protein degradation rate ( [bib68] ; [bib18] ). We compared the transcriptional changes observed in our study with a set of organellar proteomics studies on stress treatments that were recently compiled ( [bib54] ), which listed 184 mitochondrial proteins as changing under at least one stress condition. Forty-three of these were present in our list of 1196 genes. For 22 of these, the mRNA levels were significantly changed in at least one of the 16 selected microarray datasets, but only two—glutathione S-transferase ATGSTF6 ( At1g02930 ) and heat shock protein HSC70-5 ( At5g09590 )—were present in our final selection of 45 ( [tbl2] ), though our GFP assays could not confirm mitochondrial targeting for ATGSTF6. Where both transcript and protein level information was available (15 data points), we observed that the fold change for transcript was generally greater than for protein: the average fold change for mRNA was 5.9, in contrast to 1.6 for protein. Positive correlations between mRNA and protein levels were observed in seven out of 15 cases, such as GDH2 (glutamate dehydrogenase, At5g07440 ) and HSC70-1 ( At5g09590 ). However, in eight out of 15 cases, such as ATGPX6 ( At4g11600 ), GAPC (glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, At3g04120 ), and heat shock protein CR88 ( At2g04030 ), the mRNA and protein levels display an inverse relationship. Moreover, it was evident that, often, large-fold change differences can be observed in mRNA, while changes in protein abundance had not been detected in the specific studies ( [tbl2] ). Transcription factors exert their function by binding to specific DNA sequence elements, so a starting point for defining co-regulation is the analysis of the promoter regions of co-expressed genes and the identification of common cis -acting regulatory element (CAREs). The 1000-bp upstream regions from the transcriptional start site were searched for common sequence elements, namely putative binding sites for known transcription factors ( [tbl2] ). From this analysis, it was evident that putative binding sites for several classes of transcription factors were highly represented in this set. These include the RAV1-A binding site (CAACA) that was shown to be bound by the AP2 domain of RAV1 ( [bib28] ). The RAV1 transcription factor in pepper (CARAV1) has been shown to play a role in biotic and abiotic stress resistance ( [bib51] ). Interestingly, the RAV1-B binding site (CACCTG) that is bound by the B3 domain of RAV1 was only found in a context with the RAV1-a element in three promoters (data not shown). This may indicate that RAV1 or other AP2 domain transcription factors could be involved in co-regulation of these genes. Furthermore, putative binding sites for bZIP and MYB-related transcription factors were strongly represented. As these are very large families of transcription factors, with 73 and 132 members, respectively, and the binding sites are variable, pinpointing which members may be involved in regulation of these genes will be challenging. In almost half of the 1000-bp upstream regions of the selected genes, a putative abscisic acid (ABA) response element/G-box (ACGTC) was present, which has been shown to be bound by bZIP transcription factors ( [bib8] ). The core binding sequence for WRKY-type transcription factors (W-box, TTGAC; [bib47] ) was present in the upstream region of more than 90% of these promoters, particularly in the promoters of genes that were most stress-responsive ( [tbl3] ). WRKY transcription factors have been found to be involved in stress and defense signaling in numerous reports, so they are likely candidates for co-regulating the mitochondrial stress response (reviewed by [bib12] ). Additionally, a putative binding site for the LEAFY (LFY) transcription regulator was present in over half of the promoters. LFY has generally been associated with meristem and floral development, and very little is known on a possible role in stress tolerance ( [bib64] ).
!~MM~! The initial list of genes that encode putatively mitochondrial proteins was compiled based on experimental determination by mass spectrometry or GFP targeting, and genes that returned a predicted mitochondrial location in all of the following prediction programs: targetP, mitoprot2, predator, and wolf psort, as listed in the SUBA database ( www.plantenergy.uwa.edu.au/applications/suba/index.php ). Raw data (.CEL) files for the following experiments were collected. The datasets for PNO8 (N-octyl-3-nitro-2,4,6-trihydroxybenzamide; ME00363), osmotic stress (ME00327), salt stress (ME00328), TIBA (triiodo-benzoic acid; ME00358), heat (ME00339), abscisic acid (ME00333), cycloheximide (ME00361), and UV-B (ME00329) were collected from TAIR ( www.arabidopsis.org ). The datasets in Arabidopsis cell cultures for rotenone, heat, salicylic acid, and hydrogen peroxide were those from [bib9] . The datasets from ozone (E-MEXP-342) and quartz-filtered UV (E-MEXP-550) were obtained from ArrayExpress ( www.ebi.co.uk ). CEL files were normalized using Robust Multiarray Average GC-RMA ( [bib25] ) in the AVADIS software suite. For single comparison data experiments, a t -test after FDR correction was used for statistical analysis. For time course experiments, the coefficient of variance, the ratio of the standard deviation on all measurements, and (the absolute value of) the average expression values over the time course were used as statistical measures ( [bib71] ). For the datasets for CAT2 -deficient mutants treated with high light ( [bib71] ) and for Cu/Zn-SOD mutants ( [bib45] ), GC-RMA normalized expression values were provided by the authors from [bib14] . A probe set was defined as differential in a specific condition if the fold change (maximal fold change for time course datasets) was larger than two-fold, and the p -value was below 0.05 (single comparisons) or coefficient of variation (CV) was higher than 0.6. To define over-represented functional categories, we used the TAIR8 Gene Ontology annotations from the TAIR website ( www.arabidopsis.org/tools/bulk/go/index.jsp ). To test for over-represented categories compared to the genome, a chi-square statistical test was applied. The presence of putative transcription factor binding sites was assessed using the AGRIS AtcisDB database ( http://arabidopsis.med.ohio-state.edu/AtcisDB ; [bib36] ). Searches were restricted to the 1000-bp region upstream of the transcriptional start site, while, for analysis of TTGAC motif, also the 5’ untranslated region was downloaded from TAIR ( www.arabidopsis.org ) and searched. Only putative CAREs that were present in more than 50% of the promoters are shown in [tbl3] . Coding sequences were amplified from Arabidopsis thaliana cDNA using standard protocols with the Roche Expand High Fidelity PCR System (Roche, Sydney, Australia), using gene-specific primers flanked by Gateway recombination cassettes (Invitrogen, California, USA, [sec1] ). For some genes encoding large proteins, the first 300 bp were cloned, as this region is most likely to contain the itochondrial targeting peptide ( [bib5] ). PCR products were cloned into pDONR221 according to the manufacturer's instructions. Cloning into the final GFP vectors was as described in [bib6] . As mitochondrial marker, the alternative oxidase (AOX) targeting signal of 42 amino acids fused to RFP was used ( [bib6] ). As plastidial marker, the full length targeting sequence of small subunit of 1,5 ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (SSU Rubisco) was used. Biolistic co-transformation of the GFP and RFP fusion vectors was performed on Arabidopsis cell culture and onion epidermal cells as previously reported ( [bib6] ). In brief, GFP and RFP plasmids (5 μg each) were co-precipitated onto gold particles and transformed using a PDS-1000/He biolistic transformation system (Bio-Rad, www.bio-rad.com ). 2 mL of Arabidopsis cell suspension or freshly peeled onion epidermal cells were placed on filters on osmoticum medium and bombarded. Cells were then incubated for 24–48 h at 22°C in the dark before microscopy was performed using an Olympus BX61 fluorescence microscope.
