!~ABS~! The actin cytoskeleton plays a role in mobility of many different organelles in plant cells, including chloroplasts, mitochondria, Golgi, and peroxisomes. While progress has been made in identifying the myosin motors involved in trafficking of various plant organelles, not all of the cargoes mobilized by different members of the myosin XI family have yet been identified. The involvement of myosins in chloroplast positioning and mitochondrial movement was demonstrated by expression of a virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) construct in tobacco. When VIGS with two different conserved sequences from a myosin XI motor was performed in plants with either GFP-labeled plastids or mitochondria, chloroplast positioning in the dark was abnormal, and mitochondrial movement ceased. Because these and prior observations have implicated a role for myosins and the actin cytoskeleton in plastid and stromule movement, we searched for myosin tail domains that could associate with plastids and stromules. While a yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) fusion with the entire tail region of myosin XI-F was usually found only in the cytoplasm, we observed that an Arabidopsis or Nicotiana benthamiana YFP::myosin XI-F tail domain homologous to the yeast myo2p vacuole-binding domain associated with plastids and stromules after transient expression in N. benthamiana . Taken together, these observations implicate myosin motor proteins in dynamics of plastids and stromules.
!~RES~! To assess the involvement of myosin XI motors in chloroplast localization, we performed virus-induced gene silencing of myosin genes by incorporating a highly conserved region from the motor domain of Arabidopsis XI-K. The sequence was selected as one that would be predicted to silence all Arabidopsis myosin XIs, based on high levels of sequence identity with the remaining 12 myosin XIs ( [sec1] ). Sequence analysis also predicted that the myosin XI-silencing sequences was sufficiently dissimilar to Arabidopsis myosin VIII that silencing of the four Arabidopsis myosin VIIIs would be unlikely ( [bib42] ; [sec1] ). Because the N. tabacum complete genome sequence is not available, the sequences were chosen so that they would be likely to affect tobacco myosin XIs ( [sec1] ) rather than tobacco myosin VIII, according to alignments of the chosen silencing sequences against the two known myosin VIII motor domain sequences available from N. benthamiana ( [sec1] ). Following incorporation of the sequences into a tobacco rattle virus vector ( [bib23] ), tobacco plants carrying either GFP-labeled chloroplasts ( [bib36] ) or GFP-labeled mitochondria ( [bib17] ) were agroinfiltrated. Initial control experiments with the VIGS vector carrying phytoene desaturase (PDS) sequence revealed that silencing was efficient with this vector under our inoculation and growth conditions. PDS silencing impairs carotenoid synthesis, and the characteristic bleached leaves, resulting from light sensitivity, were observed in almost every plant inoculated (data not shown). The same agroinfiltration was followed to inoculate plants with the myosin silencing vector. After several weeks of growth, leaves were removed following incubation of the plants in dim light. In order to assess whether silencing occurred, RNA was isolated from control plants inoculated with the vector alone and from plants inoculated with the highly conserved myosin XI sequence. Reverse transcription–polymerase chain reactions (RT–PCRs) were performed using primers that could amplify four different N. tabacum myosin XI genes and one myosin VIII gene. After 35 PCR cycles and agarose gel electrophoresis, products were seen in all of the lanes from the control plants. Fewer PCR products were seen in the lanes containing myosin XI RT–PCRs in the inoculated plants ( [fig1] ), indicating that the abundance of some myosin XI transcripts was reduced as a result of silencing. Surprisingly, the RT–PCR experiments indicated that N. tabacum myosin VIII transcripts are also reduced in the inoculated plants ( [fig1] ). These results indicate that silencing of some myosins did occur in the plants inoculated with the VIGS vector containing the highly conserved myosin XI sequence. Because there is no complete genome sequence for N. tabacum , we cannot determine whether expression of all myosin XIs is reduced and whether expression of other myosin VIIIs is affected. Mesophyll cells in control plants inoculated with the vector lacking a myosin sequence were compared to those inoculated with myosin silencing sequences. Cells inoculated with the control vector exhibited the characteristic accumulation of chloroplasts in one plane, while cells from the myosin sequence-inoculated plants exhibited disorganized chloroplasts ( [fig2] ). These observations indicate that proper expression of one or more myosins is required for correct positioning of chloroplasts in response to reduced light levels. Because it is well established that plant mitochondria are mobilized by myosin XI motors, and mitochondria exhibit rapid movement in wild-type plants, we also compared mobility of mitochondria in the control plants and plants inoculated with the myosin VIGS vectors. Mitochondria in mesophyll cells of control plants exhibited normal positioning ( [fig3] ) and mobility ( [sec1] ), while cells in the myosin VIGS plants exhibited severely impaired mobility ( [sec1] ). In some cells inoculated with the myosin VIGS vector, the mitochondria appeared to be either mildly ( [fig3] ) or extremely ( [fig3] ) aggregated in contrast to the usual location of mitochondria dispersed throughout the cell ( [fig3] ). Previously, we examined the location of YFP fusions to various portions of the tail sequences of myosins MYA1, MYA2, XI-B, XI-I, XI-J, XI-K ( [bib37] ) but did not observe any labeling of chloroplasts with YFP. When two portions of the tail regions of all 17 Arabidopsis myosins were fused to fluorescent proteins, no interaction with chloroplasts was reported and five myosin tails gave only diffuse cytoplasmic signals ( [bib2] ). Because we had earlier observed that sometimes smaller portions of myosin tails resulted in vesicle labeling while larger portions of the tail did not, we surveyed a variety of YFP fusions to smaller portions of myosin XI tails by transient expression in N. benthamiana (data not shown). One such fusion, with a small region of the tail region of Arabidopsis myosin XI-F ( [fig4] ), was found to label chloroplasts and stromules ( [fig5] ). We investigated whether the homologous region from N. benthamiana myosin XI-F would also result in specific labeling when fused to YFP. Using the previously reported sequence of N. benthamiana myosin XI-F ( [bib3] ), a new YFP–myosin XI-F expression vector carrying the homologous sub-domain was constructed and agroinfiltrated into N. benthamiana leaves. We again observed specific localization to chloroplasts and stromules ( [fig5] ). In some epidermal cells, we also observed YFP-labeled vesicular structures ( [fig5] ). In order to investigate the identity of the vesicles labeled by the N. benthamiana YFP::myosin XI-F fusion, the N. benthamiana myosin XI-F vector was co-infiltrated with mCherry markers for either Golgi, mitochondria, or perixosomes ( [bib25] ). We noticed that some cells exhibited YFP labeling of almost all mCherry-labeled peroxisomes, while a portion of the mCherry-labeled Golgi vesicles in particular cells also exhibited YFP signals ( [fig6] ). We did not detect co-localization of YFP::myosin XI-F with mitochondria ( [fig6] ). The labeling of peroxisomes and Golgi appeared to occur in epidermal cells, while the labeling of plastids most often occurred in cells with chlorophyll-containing plastids. Possibly, these differences in labeling could occur because of differential expression of receptors or adaptor proteins that interact with myosin XI-F and the relevant cargo in different cell types. Following agroinfiltration, not all cells express the transgene-encoded protein at the same levels, also perhaps affecting the localization. When the myosin XI-F tail or globular domain was overexpressed in N. benthamiana , no disturbance of Golgi movement was detected in leaf epidermal cells ( [bib3] ), though the myosin XI-F tail does reduce Golgi movement when expressed in N. tabacum ( [bib2] ). Reduced trafficking of peroxisomes in leaf epidermal cells was detected when the XI-F tail was overexpressed in N. benthamiana ( [bib3] ), consistent with our detection of interaction of the YFP::myosin XI-F sub-domain with peroxisomes. [bib2] did not observe any effect on mitochondrial trafficking when YFP fused to the XI-F myosin tail was transiently expressed in N. benthamiana . The lack of effect on mitochondrial movement is consistent with our finding of no co-localization of our YFP fusion with mitochondria marker. The YFP signal from the myosin XI-F fusion appears to surround chloroplasts, suggesting an association with the chloroplast envelope. The location of the YFP::myosin XI-F construct is similar to the GFP signal visualized in plants transformed with a TOC34::GFP fusion, although the YFP signal from the myosin XI-F fusion often does not surround the entire chloroplast ( [fig7] ). TOC34 is an outer envelope protein ( [bib48] ) and the fusion was designed to avoid interference with incorporation of TOC34 into the chloroplast envelope ( [bib10] ). When [bib2] transiently expressed YFP fused to the XI-F myosin tail with IQ-repeats or to the remainder of the tail without the IQ repeats ( [fig8] ), only cytoplasmic localization of the fluorescent protein was detected in N. benthamiana . We made a YFP construct to the portion of the myosin XI-F tail beginning with the coiled-coil region ( [fig4] ) and also observed only cytoplasmic expression, in contrast to the specific localization to the chloroplast surface and stromules obtained with the smaller XI-F tail sub-domain ( [fig8] ). The myosin XI-F tail sub-domain from Arabidopsis and N. benthamiana that labeled chloroplasts in cells when fused C-terminally to YFP is a 42-amino acid polypeptide that is similar to the domain in yeast myo2p that is required for vacuole inheritance ( [fig9] ; [bib5] ; [bib41] ). In yeast, a single myosin, myo2p, is responsible for transport of secretory vesicles, Golgi, peroxisomes, and the vacuole (reviewed in [bib51] ). Overexpression of the globular tail region of myo2p is lethal, evidently a dominant negative effect on cargo trafficking ( [bib5] ; [bib34] ; [bib41] ). The yeast myo2p tail region contains two different domains, one of which is required for interaction with vacuoles and a second that is needed for association with secretory vesicles ( [bib31] ). Proteins with altered amino acids in the vacuole sub-domain retain interaction with secretory vesicles, though vacuole inheritance is affected, and mutations in the other sub-domain affect vesicle trafficking without altering vacuole inheritance ( [bib5] ; [bib41] ). The Arabidopsis and N. benthamiana tail sub-domain sequences are highly similar ( [fig9] ); 36 of the 42 amino acids are identical. The homology of the plant sub-domains to the yeast sub-domain is also evident; eight amino acids are identical between yeast and plant sequences ( [fig9] ); and 13 amino acids are either identical or represent conservative changes between yeast and plants ( [fig9] ). This sub-domain may be hidden or folded improperly when YFP fusions are made to larger portions of the tail, preventing its interaction with other proteins that mediate a specific interaction with the chloroplast envelope. This 42-amino acid sub-domain could be involved in the interaction of myosin XI-F with peroxisomes and Golgi in certain cells and with chloroplasts in other types of cells. At present, our data do not allow us to conclude whether or not other portions of the XI-F tail, as yet unidentified, could interact with additional types of cargo. Stromules are highly motile in epidermal and non-green cells. Stromules have been observed to be attached to unidentified cellular components and then detach, sometimes to break off or to loop around and contact the outer surface of the plastid ( [bib9] ; [bib19] ; [bib39] ). The labeling of stromules with the YFP::myosin XI-F sub-domain fusion implicates myosin motors in both movement and possibly the anchoring of stromules to the cytoskeleton. None of the mutant lines with insertions in all 13 Arabidopsis myosin XI genes was reported to exhibit any defects in chloroplast movement ( [bib33] ). This observation suggests that myosin XI-F is not likely to be solely responsible for motility of chloroplasts. According to experiments with Arabidopsis myosin mutants and Nicotiana plants expressing RNA silencing constructs, considerable redundancy of function exists in the myosin XI gene family. Insertional mutants in each of the 13 Arabidopsis myosin XI genes exhibited either no detectable phenotypes or minor abnormalities ( [bib33] ). Loss-of-function mutants of Arabidopsis myosin XI-K and MYA2 resulted in abnormal root hair morphogenesis ( [bib30] ; [bib33] ) and the XI-K mutants were also disturbed in trichome development ( [bib30] ). The mutations in these two genes reduced the rate but did not prevent the movement of mitochondria, peroxisomes, and Golgi bodies. If disruption of a single myosin gene could block all chloroplast movement, Arabidopsis plants would be expected to exhibit light sensitivity, as was found for chloroplast relocation mutants ( [bib15] ). We therefore expect that there may be one or more additional myosin XIs that also interact with chloroplasts and stromules and function in their mobility. Additional analysis of myosins will be necessary to assign all members of the myosin XI family to their respective cargoes and functions.
!~MM~! A standard TOPO and Gateway cloning system (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) was used to generate the myosin constructs. cDNA sequences of interest were amplified using Accu prime Taq DNA polymerase (Invitrogen) to generate PCR products and were cloned using the pCR8⁄GW⁄TOPO TA Cloning Kit (Invitrogen). The plasmid DNA was isolated using the PureLink Quick Plasmid Miniprep Kit (Invitrogen). Primers (Forward, For and Reverse, Rev) used in the PCR amplification are as follows: VIGS-Motor domain: For TAAGTGGGGAAAGTGGTGCT, Rev GCA GTGGTAATTTCTTTCAGGA NbYFP::XIF/HVaBD: For ATTGAAGCTAAATACCCAGCCT, Rev TCAATGTATGCACTGGTTAAGGAATG AtYFP::XIF/HVaBD: For GTCGAAGCTAAATATCCGGC, Rev TCAATGGATACAGAGATTTAGTAAT AtYFP::XIF/Tail: For ATGGCTGCCAGAGAAACTGGG, Rev TTATTCCGGCAATGTCTGGAATA VIGS-Motor domain: For TAAGTGGGGAAAGTGGTGCT, Rev GCA GTGGTAATTTCTTTCAGGA NbYFP::XIF/HVaBD: For ATTGAAGCTAAATACCCAGCCT, Rev TCAATGTATGCACTGGTTAAGGAATG AtYFP::XIF/HVaBD: For GTCGAAGCTAAATATCCGGC, Rev TCAATGGATACAGAGATTTAGTAAT AtYFP::XIF/Tail: For ATGGCTGCCAGAGAAACTGGG, Rev TTATTCCGGCAATGTCTGGAATA The LR reaction was used to transfer the insert from entry clones pCR8/GW/TOPO-myosin to the destination vector according to the manufacturer's instructions (Invitrogen). pENSG–YFP was the destination vector for transient expression of protein fusions containing the CaM 35S promoter followed by a YFP coding region placed 5’ of the Gateway recombination cassette ( [bib11] ). Gateway cloning results in the addition of the sequence encoding TSLYKKAGSEFAL between the YFP sequence and the 42-amino acid sequence encoded by myosin XI-F. YL170-Gateway, which was based on vectors described in [bib38] , was the destination vector for silencing. The products of LR reactions were transformed into an electrocompetent strain of E. coli (DH5α) and plated on selective agar-media. Insert sizes were verified by PCR amplification. The expression clone plasmid DNA was extracted using the company's protocol (Invitrogen). Sequences were translated and aligned using T-Coffee Version_7.44 ( www.tcoffee.org ) ( [bib27] ). Alignments and residue characteristics were displayed using GeneDoc ( [bib26] ). Agroinoculation of N. benthamiana and N. tabacum leaves was performed as described by [bib23] . For transient expression of fluorescent protein, leaves of 4–6-week-old N. benthamiana plants grown at 22°C under 12 h light/12 h dark were used for agroinfiltration. Plasmids were electroporated into A. tumefaciens GV3101 and transformants were selected on agar plates containing the required antibiotics. Transformation of N. benthamiana leaves was performed with Agrobacterium taken directly from agar plates. Cultures were re-suspended in 10 mM MgCl 2 , 10 mM MES pH 5.6 and 150 μM acetosyringone to an optical density of 0.5, and incubated for 2–5 h at 28°C in the dark. Leaves were infiltrated with a needle-less syringe into the abaxial side of leaves of 3–4-week-old N. benthamiana plants and examined 4–5 d later. Expression levels and duration were substantially improved by co-expression of a virus-encoded suppressor of gene silencing, the p19 protein of tomato bushy stunt virus (TBSV), which prevents post-transcriptional gene silencing (PTGS) in the infiltrated tissues (Voinnet et al., 2003). For co-localization studies, mCherry-tagged peroxisomal, Golgi, and mitochondrial markers were obtained from TAIR ( [bib25] ) and were introduced into A. tumefaciens GV3101. For VIGS experiments, transgenic N. tabacum cv. Petite Havana expressing chloroplast transgene-encoded GFP ( [bib36] ) and N. tabacum cv. Samson carrying a nuclear-encoded, mitochondrially targeted GFP ( [bib17] ) were used. Extracted plasmids were electroporated into A. tumefaciens GV3101 and transformants were selected on agar plates containing the required antibiotics. Tobacco seedlings with four to six leaves, grown at 22°C in 12 h light/12 h dark, were agroinfiltrated and allowed to grow several weeks before analysis. Confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) was performed on a Leica microscope equipped with a TCS-SP2 confocal scanning head (Leica Microsystems, Heidelberg, Germany). The 488-nm line of an argon laser was used to excite GFP and chlorophyll and the 514-nm line was used to excite YFP. The 543-nm line of a He/Ne laser was used to excite mCherry. The imaging in co-localization experiments was done in the sequential mode in order to exclude cross-talk due to spectral overlap of the fluorophores. Images were recorded and processed using the LCS software 2.5 (Leica Microsytems, Heidelberg, Germany).
