!~ABS~! The light‐dependent regulation of stromal enzymes by thioredoxin (Trx)‐catalysed disulphide/dithiol exchange is known as a classical mechanism for control of chloroplast metabolism. Recent proteome studies show that Trx targets are present not only in the stroma but in all chloroplast compartments, from the envelope to the thylakoid lumen. Trx‐mediated redox control appears to be a common feature of important pathways, such as the Calvin cycle, starch synthesis and tetrapyrrole biosynthesis. However, the extent of thiol‐dependent redox regulation in the thylakoid lumen has not been previously systematically explored. In this study, we addressed Trx‐linked redox control in the chloroplast lumen of Arabidopsis thaliana. Using complementary proteomics approaches, we identified 19 Trx target proteins, thus covering more than 40% of the currently known lumenal chloroplast proteome. We show that the redox state of thiols is decisive for degradation of the extrinsic PsbO1 and PsbO2 subunits of photosystem II. Moreover, disulphide reduction inhibits activity of the xanthophyll cycle enzyme violaxanthin de‐epoxidase, which participates in thermal dissipation of excess absorbed light. Our results indicate that redox‐controlled reactions in the chloroplast lumen play essential roles in the function of photosystem II and the regulation of adaptation to light intensity. 
!~RES~! To start screening for lumenal proteins that might be reduced by Trx, preparations of the chloroplast lumen from Arabidopsis were treated with the commercially available E. coli NTR/Trx system CITATION, CITATION. Subsequently, thiols generated upon reduction of disulphides were detected by 2‐D fluorescence electrophoresis using mBBr as a marker. To improve the specificity of the labelling by mBBr, surface‐exposed thiols of the lumenal proteins were blocked with NEM prior to the treatment with reduced Trx. This pre‐treatment led to almost complete suppression of background signals. In each of these analyses three replicate samples were used, one of which was reduced for 20 min using both NTR/Trx and NADPH. The other two samples served as controls, to one of which NTR/Trx was added but not NADPH, while NADPH was added to the other, but not NTR/Trx.  The fluorescent image of the 1‐DE gel displayed in Fig. 1A shows the samples prepared in this experiment. The lane containing NEM‐treated lumenal proteins labelled with mBBr after reduction using NADPH and NTR/Trx exhibits ten fluorescent bands (Fig. 1A, lane 1). Control samples treated with NTR/Trx without NADPH displayed some background signals that were caused by contaminating proteins in the NTR batch used (Fig. 1A, lane 2). However, in controls treated with NADPH but not NTR/Trx essentially no background signals from free thiols were observed, demonstrating that NEM efficiently alkylated these thiols (Fig. 1A, lane 3). The results also show that no endogenous NADPH‐dependent Trx‐like activity is present in the soluble lumen fraction. In contrast, a clear band of reduced Trx, with an apparent mass of 10 kDa, was obtained from blanks (Fig. 1A, lane 4). Resolution of the mBBr‐labelled lumenal chloroplast proteins in 2‐DE gels provided more detailed observations (Fig. 1B). Identification by PMF showed that the most strongly labelled proteins from the Arabidopsis chloroplast lumen were the extrinsic PSII subunits PsbO1 and PsbO2, the immunophilin FKBP13 and the pentapeptide protein TL17 (Fig. 1B). Other labelled proteins we detected included the xanthophyll cycle enzyme VDE, the pentapeptide protein TL15 (At2g44920.2) and the 20 kDa PsbP‐domain protein At3g56650. In further experiments we also observed reproducible mBBr labelling of the peroxiredoxin PrxQ (At3g26060), the extrinsic PSII subunit PsbP1 (At1g06680) and the TL29 protein (At4g09010) (Table 1).  [[FIGURE]] The analysis of lumenal Trx targets using 2‐D fluorescence electrophoresis indicated that the chloroplast lumen is rich in proteins that could be reduced by Trx. However, due to potential co‐migration on the 2‐DE gels, some of the proteins that were apparently associated with fluorescence may not have reacted with Trx. For this reason, a complementary analysis was performed using differential alkylation. In this experiment the thiols exposed upon reduction by NTR/Trx were alkylated using the reagents IAM and DMA, which results in different mass shifts of cysteine‐containing peptides in subsequent MS analysis. This strategy provides not only unambiguous identification of the target proteins, but also information about which cysteine residues react with Trx. To screen for Trx targets, the labelled lumenal chloroplast proteins were separated by 2‐DE and visualised by CBB staining for subsequent screening by MALDI‐TOF‐MS (Fig. 2). Proteins were considered as targets of Trx if their mass spectra consistently showed cysteine‐containing peptides that were labelled both in experiments using IAM and DMA (Supporting Information Table S1). As an example, a MALDI spectrum of the 20 kDa PsbP domain protein (At3g56650) is shown in the insert in Fig. 2, and the peaks of the IAM‐labelled peptides are marked with asterisks. The proteins reduced by Trx in this series of experiments are indicated on the CBB‐stained gel shown in Fig. 2, and the cysteines carrying differential labels are listed in Table 1. Comparison with the results from the 2‐D fluorescence electrophoresis analysis (Fig. 1) showed that essentially the same targets were detected (Table 1). The only differences were that the PSII subunit PsbP1 was detected by 2‐D fluorescence electrophoresis, but not by differential alkylation, and vice versa for the immunophilin FKBP20‐2. A summary of the identifications by PMF of the Trx targets found in these thiol labelling‐based approaches is presented in Supporting Information Table S1.  [[FIGURE]] In one form of Trx affinity chromatography a histidine‐tagged monocysteinic Trx immobilised on a nickel affinity matrix is employed CITATION, CITATION. In this study, we used a histidine‐tagged monocysteinic version of the m‐type Trx from the cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 (TrxA35), since this enzyme has been shown to be a highly efficient bait for Trx target proteins CITATION. Following binding of lumenal proteins to the immobilised TrxA35 by mixed disulphide formation, the matrix was washed with a low concentration solution of imidazole to remove non‐specifically interacting proteins. Finally, the TrxA35‐target complexes were eluted using a high concentration solution of imidazole. The 1‐DE profiles from this chromatographic procedure are shown in Fig. 3A, including the lumenal proteins before application to the column, the non‐retained proteins, the wash and the eluate. A comparison of the lanes displaying the initial lumenal fraction and the non‐retained proteins shows that some proteins (e.g. VDE, Deg1, TL29, TL19 and PsbO) were specifically retained on the matrix. Furthermore, the eluate lane displayed more than ten different protein bands apart from the highly abundant TrxA35 used as bait (Fig. 3A). Ten of the eluted proteins were identified by PMF and are indicated in Fig. 3A and Supporting Information Table S2.  [[FIGURE]] To resolve the lumenal proteins isolated by Trx affinity chromatography more thoroughly, eluates were subjected to 2‐D SDS‐PAGE under non‐reducing conditions in the first dimension and reducing conditions in the second CITATION, CITATION. For the first dimension, proteins were separated using SDS‐PAGE in the absence of reducing agents. Lanes excised from the resulting gels were treated with DTT and applied to a second SDS‐gel. The target‐TrxA35 mixed disulphides remained intact in the first dimension, but the targets were released and separated from TrxA35 in the second dimension. Hence, lumenal proteins that bound to the monocysteinic Trx35A migrated below the diagonal indicated by the pre‐stained standard protein markers (Fig. 3B). A mass‐shift between the first and second dimensions of approximately 15 kDa corresponds to the additional mass of one bound Trx molecule, thus confirming its interaction with the target. This pattern was observed for several proteins, including the cyclophilin Cyp38, the protease Deg1 and TL19. Other target proteins, such as VDE, displayed patterns consistent with the binding of at least two molecules of Trx in the first dimension and some targets, such as the peroxiredoxin PrxQ and PsaN, were distributed between two or more spots (Fig. 3B). An advantage of this protocol is that it can discriminate between true targets and possible contaminants that would be equally retained in both dimensions. Therefore, lumenal proteins that migrated exclusively along the diagonal, such as HCF136, were not considered as Trx targets.  The TL29‐protein could not be unambiguously identified by MS among the targets eluted from Trx affinity chromatography column and resolved by 2‐DE (Fig. 3B), although it was detected by mBBr‐labelling (Table 1). However, comparison of the TL29 band in the lumenal fraction and non‐retained protein lanes of the 1‐DE gels used to analyse the results of the Trx affinity chromatography (Fig. 3A) indicated that TL29 bound to TrxA35. Therefore, we analysed the fraction of eluted proteins by immunoblotting using specific peptide antibodies raised against TL29 of Arabidopsis. When the eluate was reduced using 20 mM DTT the antibodies detected a double band with apparent masses of 26 and 24.5 kDa, which is typical of TL29. However, when the eluted proteins were not reduced, TL29 was detected as a weak band at an apparent mass of 45.7 kDa, indicating that TrxA35 formed a mixed disulphide with TL29 (Fig. 3C).  The two low molecular mass proteins FKBP13 and TL17, which had been identified as putative Trx targets in the alkylation experiments, were also not confirmed as targets using Trx affinity chromatography, possibly due to the high abundance of the bait in this molecular mass region. Since the chloroplast lumen has three pentapeptide proteins, two of which (TL17 and TL15) were detected as Trx targets by thiol alkylation (Table 1), we tested the possibility that the third pentapeptide protein (TL20.3) might also be a Trx target and present in the fraction of TrxA35‐binding proteins. Using specific peptide antibodies raised against TL20.3 of Arabidopsis, the eluted proteins were tested for the presence of TL20.3 before and after reduction by 20 mM DTT. As shown in Fig. 3C, TL20.3 was detected among the reduced eluted proteins at apparent masses of 28.5 and 24.4 kDa. However, TL20.3 was not detected among the unreduced eluted proteins, indicating that the epitope recognized by the antibodies in TL20.3 is not accessible in the mixed disulphide formed with TrxA35. The apparent presence of two forms of TL20.3 with slightly differing masses in the sample of reduced eluted proteins indicates that reduced TL20.3 was degraded, since only a 28.5 kDa band was detected in analyses of samples of purified chloroplast lumen.  Eight lumenal proteins were detected along the diagonal of the 2‐DE gel displayed in Fig. 3, which were not Trx‐targets but co‐eluted with true targets and perhaps represented subunits of protein complexes. Therefore, to detect possible complexes among the soluble lumen proteins, and examine the effect of disulphide reduction on their oligomerization, we resolved samples of lumenal proteins by native PAGE/SDS‐PAGE 2‐DE before and after pre‐treatment with the E. coli NTR/Trx reduction system in the presence and absence of NADPH. The resulting CBB‐stained gels showed that most proteins migrated more slowly in the first than in the second dimension (Fig. 4). Treatment of the lumenal fraction with the complete reduction system prior to electrophoresis had two surprising consequences. First, the amounts of PsbO1, PsbO2 and TL17 decreased after reduction with E. coli NTR/Trx, indicating degradation of these proteins. Second, a fraction of the PsbO proteins and TL17 appeared to associate with higher mass oligomers that were not found in the unreduced control (Fig. 4). The molecular mechanism behind the formation of these possible oligomers requires further investigation.  [[FIGURE]] The identification of VDE as a Trx target suggested that reduction by Trx might regulate its enzymatic activity. To test this hypothesis, VDE activity of the lumenal chloroplast fraction was assayed in the presence and absence of reduced E. coli Trx. In accordance with the hypothesis, more than 80% of the specific activity of VDE in lumenal chloroplast fractions was lost in the presence of reduced Trx (Table 2).  The 2‐D gel of lumenal proteins isolated by Trx affinity chromatography (Fig. 3B) displayed a series of spots in the 20−30 kDa region, corresponding to degradation products of the extrinsic PSII proteins PsbO1 and PsbO2. Since PsbO proteins are usually highly stable, this observation suggested that reduction of disulphides might destabilise these proteins and make them accessible to an intrinsic lumenal protease. To test this hypothesis, we incubated lumenal chloroplast proteins in the presence of reduced E. coli Trx and monitored changes in protein levels during 5 h of incubation. Analysis by 1‐D SDS‐PAGE (Fig. 5A) showed that most lumenal proteins remained stable during the experiment and some proteins, such as the cyclophilin Cyp38 and the fibrillin PAP3, were degraded regardless of whether or not reduced Trx was present. However, the pentapeptide protein TL17 and the extrinsic PSII subunits PsbO1 and PsbO2 showed pronounced degradation in the presence of reduced Trx, but not in the presence of either NTR/Trx without NADPH or NADPH without NTR/Trx (Fig. 5A).  [[FIGURE]] The redox‐dependent degradation of PsbO1, PsbO2 and TL17 was further analysed by immunoblotting (Fig. 5B). Following 1 h of incubation in the presence of reduced Trx the levels of PsbO1, PsbO2 and TL17 were dramatically reduced and after 3 h they were virtually undetectable. In addition, breakdown products of the PsbO proteins were observed during the initial degradation process. The level of the lumenal Trx target FKBP13 (Table 1) and CITATION was monitored for comparison and, as shown in Fig. 5B, it was not degraded under any of the tested conditions. The redox‐dependent proteolysis of the PsbO proteins and of TL17 was inhibited in the presence of a 100 μM concentration of TPCK that inhibits trypsin‐like serine‐type proteases. However, only a weak inhibition of this proteolysis was observed, if the same experiment was performed in the presence of a 100 μM concentration of TLCK that inhibits chymotrypsin‐like serine proteases (data not shown). 
!~MM~! Soluble lumenal chloroplast proteins were isolated from Arabidopsis leaves as described previously CITATION, and alkylated using N‐ethylmaleimide (NEM) under non‐denaturing conditions CITATION. Briefly, 1 mL aliquots of 3–5 mL Arabidopsis lumen preparations, containing 0.2−0.3 mg protein/mL, were mixed with 50 μL of fresh 40 mM NEM in 0.2 M sodium phosphate (pH 7.8), 5 mM magnesium chloride, 50 mM sodium chloride and 100 mM sucrose. The resulting mixtures were then incubated for 1 h at 37°C and concentrated in 10K Microsep concentrators (Pall, Lund, Sweden) at 4°C to a volume of about 0.1 mL. Each portion was diluted and concentrated three consecutive times in the same 10K Microsep concentrator using 1 mL of 50 mM sodium phosphate (pH 7.8), 5 mM magnesium chloride, 50 mM sodium chloride and 100 mM sucrose. Controls to test the completion of the alkylation reaction were prepared under identical conditions except that addition of NEM was omitted. Protein concentrations of alkylated lumenal fractions and the corresponding controls were determined by the Bradford assay using BSA as a standard CITATION. Usually, these preparations contained between 1.5 and 3 mg protein/mL.  NEM‐treated lumenal chloroplast proteins were reduced with NADPH and E. coli Trx/NTR reductase (NADPH‐dependent thioredoxin reductase) and then thiol‐labelled using mBBr as previously described CITATION, CITATION. Lumenal Trx targets were also alkylated using IAM and N,N‐dimethylacrylamide (DMA) under identical conditions. To label the thiols exposed after reduction fresh solutions of the corresponding reagents in Milli‐Q water were added to final concentrations of 2–3% w/v of IAM and 4% w/v of DMA.  Chloroplast lumenal proteins that bind to the monocysteinic version of the Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 TrxA (TrxA35) were isolated using previously reported procedures CITATION, CITATION. Briefly, in each experiment 1 mg of recombinant histidine‐tagged TrxA35 was bound to the Ni‐affinity matrix and 10 mL of lumenal fraction containing about 2 mg of total protein was applied. Target‐TrxA35 mixed disulphides were then eluted in 250‐μL fractions with a buffer containing 1 M imidazole.  Alkylated lumenal chloroplast proteins were separated by IEF/SDS‐PAGE as previously described CITATION, with minor modifications. For the first dimension separation, samples were applied to Immobilone DryStrips (pH 3–10 NL 24 cm), and for the second dimension proteins were resolved in 20 cm long 12–20% gradient gels using the Ettan Daltsix electrophoresis unit (GE Healthcare, Uppsala, Sweden). The amounts of lumenal proteins applied for the first dimension varied between 60 and 210 μg, but the best results were obtained with 60 μg of protein. Proteins were stained using hot 0.025% w/v Coomassie R350 in 10% v/v acetic acid CITATION. TrxA35‐target proteins were separated by nonreducing/reducing electrophoresis as previously described CITATION, CITATION. For native PAGE, samples containing 44 μg of protein and 0.01% w/v of bromopheno lblue were separated on native 10% acrylamide gels at 4°C, using the Laemmli buffer system CITATION without SDS. For the second dimension, excised lanes were incubated for 15 min in 66 mM sodium carbonate, 2% w/v SDS and 2% v/v β‐mercaptoethanol; then proteins were separated by SDS‐PAGE using 14% polyacrylamide gels. Analysis of samples assayed for redox‐mediated proteolysis (see below) was performed using 14% polyacrylamide gels containing 2 M urea. The polyacrylamide gels were prepared using Acrylogel 2.6 (40%) solution (BDH Chemicals LTD) that was purchased from VWR International AB (Stockholm, Sweden).  For immunoblot analyses proteins were transferred onto a PVDF membrane in a semidry electroblotter using standard electrode buffer CITATION. Polyclonal peptide antibodies directed against PsbO, TL29, TL17 and TL20.3 from Arabidopsis were produced in collaboration with Agrisera (Vännäs, Sweden) and used at 4000‐fold dilution (α‐PsbO), 5000‐fold dilution (α‐TL29) or 2000‐fold dilution (α‐TL17 and α‐TL20.3). Polyclonal antibodies against FKBP13 from Arabidopsis were prepared as described previously CITATION and used at 400‐fold dilution. The immunoreactants were then assayed using goat‐anti‐rabbit IgG HRP‐conjugate (BioRad, Sundbyberg, Sweden) and either an ECL reagent kit or ECL Plus reagent kit from GE Healthcare.  UV images of gels were acquired using a Gel Doc XR CCD imaging system (BioRad). Images of CBB‐stained gels were acquired using an image scanner and Labscan software (GE Healthcare). ECL‐images of immunoblots were acquired using a LAS3000 CCD camera (Fujifilm, Stockholm, Sweden) with chemiluminescence settings.  Peptides were prepared for MS and analysed by MALDI‐TOF and ESI‐MS/MS MS using published procedures CITATION-CITATION.  VDE activity in lumenal chloroplast fractions CITATION was assayed in citrate‐phosphate buffer, pH 5.2, following published protocols CITATION, CITATION in the presence and absence of reduced E. coli Trx CITATION. Proteolytic activities in the lumenal fraction and the influence of the thiol redox state on these activities were studied using the E. coli NTR/Trx system as a reductant CITATION. Prior to the assays, the lumenal chloroplast fraction from Arabidopsis was concentrated using 10K Microsep concentrators (Pall) to obtain a preparation with a protein concentration between 1.5 and 2 mg/mL. The assay mixtures contained final protein concentrations of 1 mg/mL. Each experiment was performed using three samples, one of which contained the complete system of NTR/Trx and NADPH, while another contained NTR/Trx without NADPH and the third contained NADPH without NTR/Trx. Aliquots from all three samples were withdrawn at the times indicated in Fig. 5 and frozen immediately at −80°C until further analysis. Each of these aliquots contained 25 μg of protein for analysis by SDS‐PAGE followed by CBB‐staining and 15 μg of protein for analysis by immunoblotting. Controls were carried out under identical conditions in the presence of 100 μM concentrations of the protease inhibitors Tosyl‐L‐phenylalanine chloromethyl ketone (TPCK) and Tosyl‐L‐lysine chloromethyl ketone (TLCK) CITATION, CITATION. 
