!~ABS~! We found a new hydrophilic protein in Arabidopsis thaliana. Real-time PCR demonstrated that the protein was expressed in roots. Histochemical analysis of promoter–β-glucuronidase fusions demonstrated its extensive expression in root hairs. The protein is rich in proline, glutamate, valine and lysine residues (PEVK-rich domain), and bound Ca2+ even in the presence of Mg2+ and K+ when examined by the 45Ca overlay assay. Treatment of seedlings with K+, Mn2+, Zn2+, Na+, ABA and gibberellic acid, and cold and drought stresses enhanced the transcription. Expression of the protein linked to green fluorescent protein in A. thaliana showed its plasma membrane localization and cell-specific expression in the epidermal cells including root hairs and the elongating pollen tubes. Therefore, we named the protein PCaP2 (plasma membrane-associated Ca2+-binding protein-2). The substitution of glycine at position 2 with alanine resulted in cytoplasmic localization of PCaP2. These results and the N-terminal characteristic motif suggest that PCaP2 is N-myristoylated at Gly2. We examined the capacity for binding to phosphatidylinositol phosphates (PtdInsPs), and found that PCaP2 interacts strongly with PtdIns(3,5)P2, PtdIns(4,5)P2 and PtdIns(3,4,5)P3, and weakly with PtdIns(3,4)P2. Furthermore, calmodulin was associated with PCaP2 in a Ca2+-dependent manner, and its association weakened the interaction of PCaP2 with PtdInsPs. These results indicate that PCaP2 is involved in intracellular signaling through interaction with PtdInsPs and calmodulin in growing root hairs. PCaP2 was previously reported as microtubule-associated protein-18. We discuss the physiological roles of PCaP2 in relation to microtubules in cells.
!~RES~! PCaP2 was found in A. thaliana as a protein similar to PCaP1, which is a novel cation-binding protein associated with the plasma membrane through N-myristoylation. Fig. 1 shows the amino acid sequence of PCaP2 aligned with those of PCaP1 and related orthologs in Nicotiana tabacum, Cicer arietinum and Oryza sativa. Although PCaP1 shares only 28% sequence identity with PCaP2, both proteins have the characteristic motifs VEEKK and variants (Ide et al. CITATION, Nagasaki et al. CITATION). In a phylogenetic tree (Fig. 1), PCaP2 is far from a clade including PCaP1 and tobacco DREPPs (developmentally regulated plasma membrane proteins) (Logan et al. CITATION). PCaP2 lacks two characteristic motifs, KKAAAAE (PCaP1; position 22–28) and (E/D)(E/D)KKTEL (position 45–51), which are present in the other five proteins. The uniqueness of the primary structure of PCaP2 suggests that it has a physiological role different from that of other proteins.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Furthermore, the amino acid composition of PCaP1 is different from that of PCaP2; namely, a notably high content of proline, glutamate, valine and lysine residues in PCaP2. These four residues occupy 55 and 71% of the residues of PCaP1 and PCaP2, respectively. The high content of these four residues is a characteristic of titin protein. Titin is a giant, filamentous intrasarcomeric protein and is believed to act as a molecular ruler, regulating the length of the thick filaments in skeletal muscle (Linke et al. CITATION, Nagy et al. CITATION). Titin has unique sequences including a proline, glutamate, valine and lysine-rich (PEVK) domain (Labeit and Kolmere CITATION). The PEVK domain is a motif that contains the four residues at high levels, but the sequence is not fixed. Parts of the PEVK domain of titin have been shown to bind F-actin. The PEVK domain is found in PCaP2, except for the N- and C-terminal regions (Fig. 1). Analyses of sequence motifs in PCaP2 suggested that some residues are covalently modified. PCaP2 has a putative N-myristoylation consensus sequence, Met-Gly-X-X-X-Ser-Lys-, at the N-terminus (Boisson et al. CITATION, Rosenhouse-Dantsker and Logothetis CITATION). The second glycine residue may be linked with myristic acid. This possibility was demonstrated as described later. Ser142 and Thr148 are predicted to be phosphorylated with a high score by the NetPhos 2.0 program (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/NetPhos/). Root-specific expression was demonstrated by quantification of the mRNA level by real-time PCR (Fig. 2A). The mRNA was predominantly accumulated in 3-week-old roots, although it was detectable in stems, shoots, leaves, flowers and siliques. This result was in agreement with the transcript levels obtained by DNA microchip analyses (www.genevestigator.ethz.ch, Hruz et al. CITATION; http://www.bar.utoronto.ca/efp/cgi-bin/efpWeb.cgi, Winter et al. CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To investigate which cells express PCaP2, we cloned an upstream region that contains a 5′-non-coding region of 2,070 bp and a 15 bp section of the coding region of PCaP2. The promoter construct was fused to a β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter enzyme gene and introduced into A. thaliana plants. T2 transgenic lines were analyzed for patterns of GUS expression. No significant differences in expression were observed among 22 independent lines. The GUS signal was detected in roots, especially the root hairs of 1- and 2-week-old seedlings (Fig. 2B–H). GUS activity was not present in root apices or emerging lateral roots (Fig. 2D). In 2-week-old roots, GUS activity was high in the basal region of lateral roots and their root hairs (Fig. 2F, G) and was detected in an elongating region of the lateral roots containing root hairs (Fig. 2H). A similar pattern was observed in 3-week-old plants. In flowers, GUS activity was detected in elongating pollen tubes on a stigma (Fig. 2I, J), but not in pollen-bearing anthers (Fig. 2K). Therefore, it is clear that the PCaP2 gene is strongly expressed at least in developing root hairs and elongating pollen tubes that exhibit tip growth. The effect of phytohormones and salts was examined. The level of PCaP2 mRNA was markedly increased after treatment with ABA or gibberellic acid for 6 h (Fig. 3A). Under cold and drought stresses, the mRNA level was also increased about 8-fold. Treatment with NaCl, KCl, MgCl2, MnCl2 or ZnCl2 for 2 d increased the mRNA level >3-fold (Fig. 3B). The plants grew normally under these conditions with salts. Enhancement of PCaP2 expression, especially in root hairs of lateral roots, by NaCl and KCl was observed in GUS staining profiles (Fig. 3C, D).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To determine the intracellular localization of PCaP2, we prepared two DNA constructs encoding a fusion protein of PCaP2 with GFP and transiently expressed it in A. thaliana suspension-cultured cells. GFP was linked at the N- (GFP–PCaP2) or C-terminus of PCaP2 (PCaP2–GFP). More than 50 protoplasts were observed for each construct, and typical images are shown in Fig. 4. Green fluorescence from GFP of PCaP2–GFP was clearly detected at the plasma membrane of suspension-cultured cells, but the signal was seen neither in the cytosol, vacuoles, nuclei nor endomembranes. In contrast to PCaP2–GFP, green fluorescence was detected in the cytosol for the GFP–PCaP2 construct.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] As mentioned above, PCaP2 contains a putative N-myristoylation consensus sequence, Met-Gly-X-X-X-Ser-Lys. If the protein is N-myristoylated, Gly2 will be the site of covalent modification. We prepared PCaP2 mutants, whose Gly2 was replaced by alanine, linked to GFP at the N- (GFP–PCaP2G2A) or C-terminus of PCaP2 (PCaP2G2A–GFP), and then expressed them in A. thaliana suspension-cultured cells. We observed >50 protoplasts for each construct by confocal laser scanning microscopy. Green fluorescence of both constructs was detected in the cytosol but not in the plasma membrane, vacuoles or nuclei. Thus, Gly2 might be essential to localize PCaP2 in the plasma membrane and be the site of myristoylation for membrane anchoring. To examine the intracellular localization and distribution of PCaP2 protein in plant tissues, we prepared a construct of PCaP2 promoter–PCaP2::GFP and introduced it into A. thaliana. The fluorescent tag was linked at the C-terminus of PCaP2 to allow myristoylation at the N-terminus, if it occurs. Fig. 5 shows a typical image of green fluorescence of T2 lines. Green fluorescence of GFP was detected in roots and root hairs (Fig. 5A–F), but not in the root meristematic or elongation zone (Fig. 5G, H). This observation was consistent with the result of the GUS reporter assay (Fig. 2).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In root cells, fluorescence of GFP was clearly detected in the plasma membrane but not in the cytosol or nucleus. In general, free GFP is distributed in the cytosol and nuclei. If PCaP2–GFP were to be localized on the vacuolar membrane, the fluorescence would be observed in large spherical shapes in the cells. The present fluorescence images matched the shape of cells well. Thus, we concluded that PCaP2–GFP was localized in the plasma membrane in the tissues. To characterize the biochemical properties of PCaP2, we prepared and purified recombinant PCaP2. It was difficult to obtain native PCaP2 from plant tissues because of the low abundance of the protein in plants. We expressed PCaP2 with a (His)6 tag in Escherichia coli cells and isolated it from the soluble fraction of E. coli lysate. A highly purified preparation of PCaP2 was obtained by Ni-NTA affinity column chromatography, phenyl hydrophobic column chromatography and then QAE ion exchange column chromatography (Fig. 6A). The recombinant PCaP2 migrated in SDS–PAGE as an approximately 43 kDa protein, which was inconsistent with the calculated mol. wt. of 18,549.2 Da. The 43 kDa band was not observed in the lysate of control E. coli cells and was reacted with antibody specific to a part of PCaP2 as described later, supporting that the protein at 43 kDa is recombinant PCaP2. This 43 kDa band is not of the oligomeric form, because the recombinant PCaP2 did not show a band at around 20 kDa under any conditions. There might not be an intramolecular disulfide bond in PCaP2 because of the absence of a cysteine residue in PCaP2. Slow migration of PCaP2 may be due to the unique amino acid composition.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We examined the ability of PCaP2 to bind to Ca2+, since PCaP2 is rich in glutamate residues and is partially similar to PCaP1 that has been demonstrated to bind Ca2+. Membrane sheets blotted with purified PCaP2 were incubated with 45Ca2+ in the presence of 5 mM MgCl2 and 60 mM KCl, and then rinsed with 50% ethanol. The recombinant PCaP2 reproducibly gave a clear positive signal of 45Ca2+ in a dose–response manner (Fig. 6B). CaM showed a positive signal in this assay, but immunoglobulin, a negative control, gave no signal. The result indicates that Ca2+ binds to PCaP2 even in the presence of Mg2+ and K+ at relatively high concentrations. The N-terminal part of PCaP2 is rich in lysine and aromatic residues (tyrosine, tryptophan and phenylalanine) (Fig. 1). These characteristic sequences with clusters of basic/aromatic residues have been found in domains for interaction with PtdInsPs (McLaughlin et al. CITATION, CITATION, Kaadige and Ayer CITATION). We determined the binding nature of PCaP2 using PIP Strips™, which were spotted with a series of PtdInsPs (Fig. 7A). PCaP2 bound to phosphatidylinositol 3,5-bisphosphate [PtdIns(3,5)P2], PtdIns(4,5)P2 and PtdIns(3,4,5)P3. The protein did not associate with lysophosphatidic acid, lysophosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylserine, sphingosine 1-phosphate, phosphatidic acid, PtdIns(3)P, PtdIns(4)P or PtdIns(5)P. Next, we examined the effect of calcium on these properties, because PCaP2 was demonstrated to bind calcium (Fig. 6). The selectivity of binding was not changed by the addition of calcium to the reaction mixture at 4 μM but the affinity was slightly decreased (Fig. 7B). Potassium did not affect the intensity or lipid selectivity, even at 10 mM, but magnesium weakened the affinity but not the selectivity.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Further quantitative analysis was performed using a PIP Array™. Eight PtdInsPs were quantitatively spotted on the array sheet. PCaP2 bound PtdInsPs in a concentration-dependent manner (Fig. 7C). PCaP2 had a high affinity for PtdIns(3,5)P2 and PtdIns(3,4,5)P3, and bound to them even at 6.3 pmol on the sheet. Its affinity for PtdIns(3,4)P2 and PtdIns(4,5)P2 was relatively low. Binding to PtdIns(3,4)P2 was clearly shown in this PIP Array™ test, although the signal for PtdIns(3,4)P2 was extremely low in the PIP Strips assay (Fig. 7A, B). These results indicate that PCaP2 can bind strongly to PtdIns(3,5)P2, PtdIns(4,5)P2 and PtdIns(3,4,5)P3, and weakly to PtdIns(3,4)P2. It should be noted that a (His)6 tag does not interact with PtdInsPs. To examine the capacity of PCaP2 to bind to CaM, we incubated the purified PCaP2 with CaM–agarose. The PCaP2 protein bound to CaM–agarose only in the absence of free CaM and the presence of Ca2+ (Fig. 8A, lane 3). The interaction of PCaP2 with CaM–agarose was completely suppressed by additional free CaM (Fig. 8A, lane 4) or EGTA (lanes 5 and 6) in the reaction medium. These results clearly indicate a specific interaction of PCaP2 with the Ca2+–CaM complex.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We examined the effect of CaM on the affinity of PCaP2 for PtdInsPs. The amount of PCaP2 bound to PtdInsPs was notably decreased, as shown by the intensity of the PCaP2 signal in the PIP Array™ test (Fig. 8B). The intensity of the PCaP2 signal was recovered when EGTA was added to remove free Ca2+. These results indicate that CaM binds to PCaP2 and affects the association of PCaP2 with PtdInsPs in a Ca2+-dependent manner.
!~MM~! Seeds of A. thaliana (strain, Col-0) provided by the RIKEN Bioresource Center were germinated on sterile gel plates containing Murashige–Skoog (MS) salt, 2.3 mM MES-KOH (pH 5.7), 2% (w/v) sucrose and 0.8% Ina agar (Funakoshi, Tokyo, Japan) at 22°C under long-day conditions (light/dark regime of 16 h/8 h, cool-white lamps, 90 μmol m−2 s−1). In some experiments, seeds were grown in agar plates containing salt or phytohormones. The effects of ions, metals and phytohormones were examined on sterile gel plates containing 0.5× MS (one-half strength of MS salts) supplemented with 2% sucrose (0.5× MS-sucrose). Arabidopsis thaliana (Col-0) suspension-cultured cells (also called ‘Deep’ cells) were a kind gift from Dr. Masaaki Umeda of the Nara Institute of Science and Technology, Japan. The cells were cultured in MS medium at 22°C under dark conditions. PCaP2 tagged with (His)6 at the C-terminus (PCaP2/His) was prepared. A cDNA for PCaP2 was amplified by PCR with a primer set, 5′-GGAATTCCATATGGGTTATTGGAAGTCGAA G-3′ (forward) and 5′-CCGCTCGAGTTAGTGGTGGTGGTGGTGGTGAGCCTTTTGTGGCGCAGC-3′ (reverse) (NdeI and XhoI sites are underlined), using KOD-Plus DNA polymerase (Toyobo, Osaka, Japan). The amplified DNA fragment was inserted into a plasmid vector pZErO™-2 (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA) and then ligated into the NdeI–XhoI site of the pET23b expression vector (Novagen, Madison, WI, USA). Then the expression vector was introduced into the E. coli BL21(DE3) strain (Novagen). Transformants were grown in LB broth for 3 h at 30°C after induction with 0.4 mM isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside. The cells were harvested by centrifugation and suspended in 20 mM Tris-acetate (pH 7.5) containing 20% (v/v) glycerol, 0.1 mg ml−1 DNase I, 0.2 mg ml−1 lysozyme, 10 mM β-mercaptoethanol and a protein inhibitor cocktail (0.5× Complete™, EDTA-free) (Roche Applied Science, Mannheim, Germany). The cells were disrupted by sonication for 12.5 min on ice. After removal of cell debris by centrifugation at 100,000 × g for 30 min, the supernatant was applied to an Ni-NTA Superflow column (Qiagen, Valencia, CA, USA) equilibrated with 20 mM imidazole, 20 mM Tris-acetate (pH 7.5), 20% (v/v) glycerol and 2 M NaCl. PCaP2/His protein was eluted with 300 mM imidazole, 20 mM Tris-acetate (pH 7.5) and 2 M NaCl. PCaP2/His-enriched fractions were applied to a HiTrap Phenyl HP column (GE Healthcare Bio-Sciences, Piscataway, NJ, USA) equilibrated with 20 mM Tris-acetate (pH 7.5) and 2 M NaCl. PCaP2/His was recovered in the flowthrough fraction. After desalting with a gel filtration column of Sephadex G-25 (GE Healthcare), the protein was applied to a column of QAE-550C Toyopearl (Tosoh, Osaka, Japan) equilibrated with 10 mM Tris-acetate (pH 7.5). The identity of the resultant purified PCaP2/His protein was confirmed by SDS–PAGE. Protein concentration was determined using a BCA protein assay reagent kit (Pierce Biotechnology, Rockford, CA, USA). Protein samples were subjected to SDS–PAGE in a 12.5% (w/v) polyacrylamide gel. Immunoblotting was performed by the standard method using horseradish peroxidase-coupled protein A and Western blotting detection reagents (GE Healthcare). Total RNA was prepared from organs or whole plants with an extraction kit (Clontech, Mountain View, CA, USA) and treated with DNase I and an RNase-free DNase Set (Qiagen). RNA (1 μg) was converted into cDNA using Superscript II RNase H− reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen) and oligo(dT)20. Real-time PCR analysis was performed with an iCycler iQ Real-Time PCR system (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA, USA) using the iQ SYBR Green Supermix (Bio-Rad). The primer sets used for real-time PCR were as follows: 5′-AACTCCTTCGACTAAGGCTC-3′ (forward) and 5′-CCATGAAGAAAATTCAAGCCTT-3′ (reverse) for PCaP2, and 5′-CGGCTACCACATCCAAGGAA-3′ (forward) and 5′-GCTGGAATTACCGCGCGGCT-3′ (reverse) for 18S rRNA. The specificity of these primers was confirmed by PCR. Standard plasmids that contained a sequence of each PCaP2 were prepared. The standard curves for PCaP2 were generated by using these standard plasmid- and gene-specific primers. Copy numbers of the products were calculated from the threshold cycles of triplicate real-time PCR assays using the standard curves. Relative mRNA contents were normalized to the 18S rRNA content. Values are expressed as means ± SD calculated for three assays. Transient transformation of A. thaliana cultured cells with PCaP2–GFP fusion proteins was performed as described below. A PCaP2 cDNA was amplified by PCR with a pair of PCaP2- specific primers (forward, 5′-CACCATGGGTTATTGGAAGTCG AAG-3′; reverse, 5′-AGCCTTTTGTGGCGCAGC-3′). The amplifying fragments with an additional sequence CACC at the 5′ terminus were inserted into pENTR/D-TOPO (Invitrogen) followed by insertion in the destination vector New-pUGW5 (developed by Dr. Tsuyoshi Nakagawa, Shimane University, Japan) (Nakagawa et al. CITATION) in order to generate a fusion construct with GFP at the C-terminus of PCaP2. Expression of the PCaP2–GFP fusion construct in A. thaliana suspension-cultured cells (Deep cells) was done as described previously (Ishikawa et al. CITATION). The GFP fluorescence was visualized with a Fluoview FV500 confocal laser scanning microscope (Olympus) using a set of BA465–495 (excitation) and BA505–550 (emission) filters. Transgenic plants expressing a PCaP2 promoter–PCaP2::GFP construct were prepared as follows. A DNA segment of the PCaP2 promoter followed by the open reading frame (ORF) of PCaP2 (−2,070 from the initiation codon to the 5′ end of the ORF without the stop codon) was amplified from an A. thaliana genomic DNA preparation by PCR using a primer set: 5′-CACCGCCTCGCTAAACCCAACGA-3′ (forward) and 5′-AGCCTTTTGTGGCGCAGC-3′ (reverse). The obtained fragments were inserted into pENTR/D-TOPO and then subcloned into the pGWB404 vector (Nakagawa et al. CITATION), which contained a synthetic GFP, in which Ser65 was exchanged by threonine. The resulting plasmid was termed PCaP2 promoter–PCaP2::GFP. Arabidopsis thaliana Col-0 plants were transformed using the floral dip method (Clough and Bent CITATION). After selection with 50 μg ml−1 kanamycin, T2 plants were used for fluorescence observation with a confocal laser scanning microscope as mentioned above. An upstream region that contains a 5′-non-coding region of 2,070 bp and a 15 bp section of the coding region of PCaP2 was amplified from genomic DNA by PCR using the primers: 5′-CACCGCCTCGCTAAACCCAACGA-3′ (forward) and 5′- CT TCCAATAACCCATCTTTTAA-3′ (reverse). The resulting fragments with the additional sequence CACC at the 5′ terminus were ligated into the binary vector pGWB203 (Nakagawa et al. CITATION), which contains the DNA sequence for GUS, in order to produce a translational fusion product. The chimeric constructs were introduced into the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain pMP90 (C58C1) by electroporation and used to transform A. thaliana plants (Ishikawa et al. CITATION). Transformants were selected on plates containing 0.2 mg ml−1 Cefotax (Chugai Pharmaceutical, Tokyo, Japan), 30 μg ml−1 hygromycin and 30 μg ml−1 kanamycin. T2 transformants were assayed for GUS activity. GUS activity was visualized by treatment of whole seedlings and flowers with 90% (v/v) acetone for 30 min at −4°C. After washing with 100 mM sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.0), the samples were infiltrated with a solution containing 100 mM sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.0), 0.5 mM K3Fe(CN)6, 0.5 mM K4Fe(CN)6, 10 mM EDTA, 2 mM 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-glucuronide, 20% (v/v) methanol and 0.1% (w/v) Triton X-100 under vacuum for 30 min, and then incubated at 37°C until blue histochemical stain was confirmed. The regular incubation period was 12 h. The 45Ca2+ overlay assay was carried out (Maruyama et al. CITATION). The purified preparations of IgG, CaM and recombinant PCaP2/His were blotted on to a PVDF membrane using a slot blot apparatus (Bio-Rad). The membrane sheet was washed twice with 10 mM Tris-acetate (pH 7.5), 5 mM MgCl2 and 60 mM KCl, and incubated in the same buffer (1 ml) supplemented with 3.7 MBq of 45Ca2+ as CaCl2 (Perkin-Elmer Inc., Wellesley, MA, USA) at 25°C for 30 min. Then the membrane was washed twice in 10 ml of 50% (v/v) ethanol, and dried at room temperature. An autoradiogram of the 45Ca2+-labeled proteins on the membrane was obtained by exposure to an X-ray film for 3 d at −80°C. PIP Strips™ (Echelon Biosciences, Salt Lake City, UT, USA) and PIP Array™ (new version after 2004) (Echelon Biosciences) were treated with 10 mM Tris–HCl (pH 8.0), 150 mM NaCl and 0.1% (w/v) Tween-20 (TBST) supplemented with 3% fatty-acid free bovine serum albumin (BSA) for 1 h at 25°C to block the sheets (Nagasaki et al. CITATION). The sheets were incubated for 16 h with 100 ng ml−1 recombinant PCaP2 in TBST at 4°C, and then washed with TBST and immunoblotted with anti-His tag IgG. Then the blots were visualized with horseradish peroxidase-coupled protein A (Nacalai Tesque, Kyoto, Japan) and the Western blotting detection reagents (GE Healthcare). In order to test the effect of ions, a lipid binding assay was performed in the presence of 10 mM KCl, 0.1 mM MgCl2 or 4 μM CaCl2 by PIP Strips™. The effect of CaM on the interaction of PCaP2 with PtdInsPs was also examined. Recombinant PCaP2 (100 ng ml−1) was incubated with 2.4 μg ml−1 calmodulin in the presence of 0.1 mM CaCl2 and/or 1 mM EGTA for the PIP Array™ assay. The CaM binding property was examined using CaM–agarose (Sigma-Aldrich, St Louis, MO, USA). Recombinant PCaP2 (3.9 μg) was incubated with 15 μl of CaM–agarose suspended in 20 mM Tris–HCl (pH 7.5) and 150 mM NaCl for 1 h at 4°C (Matsubara et al. 2003). After centrifugation at 1,470 × g for 2 min, the supernatant was removed. The CaM–agarose was washed three times with the same buffer, and then proteins bound to CaM–agarose were eluted with the SDS sample buffer containing 2% SDS. The bound fractions were subjected to SDS–PAGE and immunoblotting. For some experiments, 0.5 mM CaCl2 and/or 1 mM EGTA were added to the reaction medium. In some other experiments, CaM was added to the reaction medium to examine the CaM-specific interaction.
