!~ABS~! The vanilla cream1 (vac1) albino mutant is defective in a gene encoding a chloroplast-localized pentatricopeptide repeat protein of the DYW subgroup. However, the carboxyl-terminal DYW motif is truncated in VAC1. To identify vac1-specific phenotypes, we compared 34 chloroplast RNA editing sites and ~90 chloroplast gene expression patterns among wild type, vac1 and another albino mutant ispH, which is defective in the plastid isoprenoid biosynthesis pathway. We found that the editing of accD and ndhF transcripts is partially affected in vac1. In addition, steady-state levels of chloroplast rRNAs are significantly decreased in vac1. The expression of plastid-encoded RNA polymerase transcribed genes is down-regulated, whereas the expression of nucleus-encoded RNA polymerase transcribed genes is up-regulated in vac1. Although the development and function of mutant chloroplasts are severely impaired, steady-state mRNA levels of nucleus-encoded photosynthetic genes are not affected or are only slightly decreased in vac1. The ZAT10 gene encodes a transcription factor and its expression is down-regulated by norflurazon treatment in wild type. This norflurazon effect was not observed in vac1. These results suggest that the VAC1 protein may be involved in plastid-to-nucleus retrograde signaling in addition to its role in chloroplast RNA editing and gene expression. A defect in a key biosynthetic pathway can have many indirect effects on chloroplast gene expression as is seen in the ispH mutant. Similarly, the vac1 mutant has pleiotropic molecular phenotypes and most of which may be indirect effects.
!~RES~! To isolate mutants impaired in chloroplast development and function, we generated a collection of Arabidopsis T-DNA insertion lines and screened for plants displaying albino, pale green or pale yellow phenotypes. One of the isolated mutants, vanilla cream1 (vac1), exhibits albino to pale yellow phenotype. Homozygous vac1 plants are albino lethal so the mutant is maintained as a heterozygous line. Progeny from a self-pollinated heterozygous plant segregate green and albino plants in a ratio of 3:1 on a half MS plus sucrose medium, i.e. the albino phenotype is inherited as a monogenic recessive mutation (Fig. 1a). The vac1 albino plants are lethal under either normal or low light condition. Some vac1 albino plants can grow to develop flower bud-like structures on a tissue culture medium (Fig. 1b). However, these flower buds never grow to mature before the plant dies. In 2-week-old vac1 mutants, total chlorophylls and carotenoids are 8.9 and 22.2%, respectively, of the amounts in wild-type plants (Fig. 1c). In contrast, the content of photosynthetic pigments was almost undetectable in the ispH albino plants, which are null mutants of the IspH gene encoding 1-hrdroxy-2-methyl-2-(E)-butenyl 4-diphosphate reductase (HDR) of the plastid nonmevalonate pathway for isoprenoid biosynthesis (Hsieh and Goodman CITATION). In parallel with their photosynthetic pigment content, the PSII maximum quantum yield of vac1 mutants was about 8.7% of wild-type plants, whereas the photosynthetic activity was not detectable in the ispH albino plants (Fig. 1d). [[FIGURE]]  Transmission electron microscopic analysis of vac1 leaf sections revealed that the development of chloroplast is impaired in the mutant. In contrast to wild-type chloroplasts, which are lens-shaped containing well-organized inner thylakoid membrane systems, the morphology of vac1 mutant chloroplasts range from round- or amoeboid-shape and completely lack of thylakoids to lens-shaped with the development of few stacking and non-stacking thylakoids (Fig. 2). These various types of mutant chloroplasts may exist in the same or different cells. The mutant chloroplasts without thylakoids are usually filled with large vesicles. In addition, densely stained globule aggregates are frequently observed in the vac1 mutant chloroplasts. These observations are consistent with the phenotypes that the vac1 mutants still retain certain amounts of photosynthetic pigments and some photosynthetic activity. [[FIGURE]]  Genetic analysis of the vac1 mutants has confirmed that the albino phenotype co-segregates with the T-DNA insertion. To identify the vac1 locus, we used thermal asymmetric interlaced (TAIL)-PCR to analyze the genomic flanking sequence of the vac1 T-DNA mutant. Sequence analysis of the TAIL-PCR products revealed that the T-DNA insertion is located in the open reading frame of At1g15510 (Fig. 3a). RNA gel blot analysis confirmed that ~2.6 kb transcripts of the predicted At1g15510 gene were detected in the wild type but not in the vac1 albino plants (Fig. 3b). Since the RNA gel blot analysis cannot detect very low abundant transcripts, we conducted RT-PCR analysis to show that there is no trace of VAC1 transcripts left in the mutant (Fig. 3c). These results suggest that vac1 is a null allele of the At1g15510 gene. To further prove that we have identified the allele responsible for the vac1 albino mutant, we introduced a 3.3 kb genomic clone encompassing the predicted open reading frame of the VAC1 gene and its putative promoter into the mutant. The VAC1 gene driven by its own native promoter was able to complement the vac1 albino mutant. The phenotype and genotype of a representative complementation line are shown in Fig. 3d and e, respectively. These results confirm that the vac1 albino phenotype is caused by a loss-of-function mutation in the VAC1 gene. [[FIGURE]]  ArabidopsisVAC1 is an intronless gene that encodes a PPR protein (Fig. 4a). The amino acid sequence and domain composition of VAC1 PPR protein are most similar to those in the DYW subgroup (O’Toole et al. CITATION). However, the VAC1 PPR protein has a truncated DYW domain. The other reported PPR-DYW proteins end with a conserved DYW or DFW tri-peptide (Supplemental Fig. S1). The VAC1 PPR protein is predicted to localize to the chloroplast (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/ChloroP/). To verify the prediction, we fused the first 72 amino acids of VAC1 protein, which encompass the putative transit peptide, to the N-terminus of a green fluorescent protein (GFP). The VAC1-GFP fusion construct driven by a cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter was transformed into Arabidopsis protoplasts. Confocal microscopy was used to observe the fluorescent signals 24 h after transformation. The green fluorescent signals derived from the VAC1-GFP fusion protein co-localized with the auto-fluorescent signals of chlorophylls in the chloroplasts (Fig. 4b). These results suggest that the Arabidopsis VAC1 PPR protein is localized to the chloroplast. [[FIGURE]]  We used semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis to examine the expression patterns of VAC1 in 6-week-old wild type Arabidopsis plants grown in soil. The expression of VAC1 is ubiquitous as the VAC1 transcripts were detected in all organs examined. Levels of VAC1 transcripts are low in roots and high in leaves, stems, flowers and siliques (Fig. 4c). To test the effects of light on the expression of VAC1, we treated 3-day-old Arabidopsis etiolated seedlings with light for 0, 1, 2 and 4 h. Total RNA extracted from these samples was analyzed by semi-quantitative RT-PCR to detect the expression levels of VAC1. Low levels of VAC1 mRNA were detected in 3-day-old etiolated Arabidopsis seedlings (Fig. 4d, 0 h light). Exposure to light for 1 h rapidly increased the accumulation of VAC1 transcripts and higher levels of VAC1 mRNA were detected in seedlings treated by light for 2 and 4 h (Fig. 4d). Many chloroplast protein-coding genes are organized as clusters and are co-transcribed as polycistronic messages. The expression of these polycistronic genes has to go through extensive posttranscriptional processing. To further identify vac1-specific molecular phenotypes, we used RNA gel blot analysis to compare the abundance and banding patterns of chloroplast transcripts in wild type, vac1 and ispH mutants. The psb genes encode subunits of the photosystem II protein complex and the pet genes encode subunits of the photoelectron transport cytochrome b6f protein complex. Compared to those of wild type, steady-state levels of psbA, psbB-psbH-petB-petD, psbD-psbC, psbE-psbF-psbL-psbJ, psbK-psbI, psbM and psbZ mRNAs are significantly decreased in the vac1 mutant (Fig. 5a). These effects are specific to the vac1 albino mutants, because the expression of most of the psb genes is only slightly affected in the ispH albino plants (Fig. 5a). In addition to the difference in transcript levels, the banding patterns of psbE-psbF-psbL-psbJ, psbK-psbI and psbM transcripts in vac1 are different from those of wild type and ispH. The intensity of each individual band of the psbE-psbF-psbL-psbJ transcripts is differentially regulated in vac1 compared to those of wild type and ispH. Although the abundance of psbK-psbI transcripts is significantly decreased in vac1, at least three unique high molecular weight psbK-psbI transcripts were specifically detected in vac1 but not in wild type and ispH. These results suggest that the abundance and expression patterns of chloroplast psb transcripts are significantly and specifically affected in the vac1 albino mutant. [[FIGURE]]  The psa genes encode subunits of the photosystem I protein complex. The psaA, psaB and rps14 genes are co-transcribed in the same operon. Compared to those of wild type, steady-state levels of psaA-psaB-rps14 transcripts are significantly decreased in both vac1 and ispH albino mutants (Fig. 5b). These results suggest that the down-regulation of psaA-psaB-rps14 transcripts is not specific to the vac1 mutant. The ndh genes encode subunits of the NADH dehydrogenase. The psaC and ndhD genes are located in the same operon. Compared to those of wild type and ispH, steady-state levels of high molecular weight precursor transcripts of psaC-ndhD are specifically up-regulated in the vac1 albino mutant (Fig. 5b). In contrast to ndhD, the expression patterns of most ndh genes are similar between the vac1 and ispH albino mutants (Supplemental Fig. S2). Compared to those of wild type, levels of psaI transcripts are slightly decreased in both vac1 and ispH mutants (Fig. 5b). By contrast, steady-state levels of psaJ mRNAs are specifically down-regulated in the vac1 mutant (Fig. 5b). Whereas the abundance and expression patterns of petA, petG and petL transcripts are similar between vac1 and ispH albino mutants, steady-state levels of petN mRNA are significantly decreased in vac1, compared to those of wild type and ispH (Fig. 5c). The chloroplast atp genes are organized into two transcriptional units in Arabidopsis. One cluster of genes has the order atpB-atpE and the other cluster has the order atpI-atpH-atpF-atpA. We designed probes corresponding to the coding regions of these chloroplast-encoded ATP synthase subunit genes to detect the abundance and banding patterns of these polycistronic transcripts by RNA gel blot analyses. We found that the expression patterns of atpB-atpE transcripts are specifically affected in the vac1 mutant (Fig. 5d). In the atpB-atpE operon, 2.6 and 2.4 kb transcripts are transcribed by PEP and NEP, respectively (Swiatecka-Hagenbruch et al. CITATION). In the vac1 mutant, steady-state levels of NEP-transcribed 2.4 kb atpB-atpE transcripts are increased compared to those of wild type and ispH, whereas the PEP-transcribed 2.6 kb atpB-atpE transcripts are almost undetectable (Fig. 5d). Moreover, there are at least two additional high molecular weight atpB-atpE transcripts that specifically accumulate in the vac1 mutant (Fig. 5d). We used sense and antisense probes located in the atpB-atpE operon and its adjacent gene rbcL to demonstrate that these high molecular weight transcripts in vac1 have the same orientation as atpB-atpE transcripts (Supplemental Fig. S3). In contrast to the atpB-atpE transcripts, the expression patterns of atpI-atpH-atpF-atpA in vac1 are similar to those of ispH (Supplemental Fig. S2). Compared to those of wild type, steady-state levels of atpI transcripts are significantly decreased in both vac1 and ispH albino mutants, whereas the abundance of atpH, atpF and atpA transcripts is not affected (Supplemental Fig. S2). The plastid-encoded RNA polymerase consists α, β, β′ and β″ subunits, which are encoded by the rpoA, rpoB, rpoC1 and rpoC2 genes, respectively. Compared to those of wild type and ispH, steady-state levels of rpoA, rpoB, rpoC1 and rpoC2 transcripts are increased in the vac1 mutant (Fig. 5e). Similarly, steady-state levels of clpP transcripts are specifically up-regulated in the vac1 mutant (Fig. 5e). In addition, a novel low molecular weight clpP transcript was specifically detected in the vac1 mutant (Fig. 5e). The rps and rpl genes encode ribosomal proteins of small and large subunits, respectively. The Arabidopsis rps12 gene is split into two parts, which belong to two different operons in the chloroplast genome. The 5′ and 3′ rps12 transcripts have to go through trans-splicing to form mature transcripts. Compared to those of wild type and ispH, steady-state levels of 5′rps12-rpl20, 3′rps12-rps7, rps11, rps15 and rpl32 are significantly increased in the vac1 mutant (Fig. 5f). The rpl33 and psaJ genes are located in the same operon. Similar to that of psaJ, steady-state levels of rpl33 transcripts are specifically down-regulated in the vac1 mutant (Supplemental Fig. S2). The expression levels of the other rps and rpl genes are similar between the vac1 and ispH albino mutants (Supplemental Fig. S2). The ycf genes encode proteins of unknown functions in the chloroplast. Compared to those of wild type and ispH, steady-state levels of ycf1 and ycf2 transcripts are specifically increased in the vac1 mutant (Fig. 5f). Moreover, the expression patterns and the intensity of each individual band of ycf3 and ycf5 transcripts in vac1 are significantly different from those of wild type and ispH (Supplemental Fig. S2). The accD gene encodes the β subunit of acetyl-CoA carboxylase. Steady-state levels of accD transcripts are decreased in both vac1 and ispH (Fig. 5g). The chloroplast rRNA genes are organized as a 16S-23S-4.5S-5S operon similar to that of prokaryotes (Fig. 6a). Ethidium bromide staining of total RNA extracted from 2 weeks old vac1 albino plants reveals that levels of chloroplast ribosomal RNA are significantly reduced in the vac1 albino mutant compared to that of wild type and ispH (Fig. 6b bottom). We used RNA gel blot analysis to examine the expression patterns and steady-state levels of 16S, 23S, 4.5S and 5S rRNAs in wild type, vac1 and ispH mutants. Compared to those of wild type and ispH, steady-state levels of 16S, 23S, 4.5S and 5S rRNAs are significantly decreased in the vac1 mutant (Fig. 6b, c). Despite the dramatic difference in transcript abundance, the banding patterns of chloroplast 4.5S and 23S rRNAs in vac1 are similar to those of wild type and ispH (Fig. 6c). These results suggest that steady-state levels of chloroplast rRNAs are specifically affected in the vac1 mutant but not in the ispH albino plants. In addition to rRNAs, we also used RNA gel blot analysis to examine the expression of chloroplast tRNA genes. It has been suggested that the expression of chloroplast trnE gene is dependent on PEP and tRNAGlu can specifically repress the activity of NEP during the late phase of chloroplast development (Hanaoka et al. CITATION). Compared to those of wild type, steady-state levels of trnE transcripts are slightly decreased in ispH and dramatically reduced in vac1 (Fig. 6d). Similarly, steady-state levels of trnH, trnQ, trnR, trnT, trnW and trnY transcripts are also significantly decreased in vac1 (Fig. 6d). By contrast, steady-state levels of trnC, trnF, trnI, trnL, trnfM, trnN, trnP and trnV transcripts are decreased to similar levels in both vac1 and ispH compared to those of wild type (Supplemental Fig. S2). [[FIGURE]]  Ribulose-bisphosphate carboxylase (Rubisco), the key enzyme of photosynthetic CO2 fixation, is composed of large and small subunits, which are encoded by rbcL in the chloroplast and rbcS in the nucleus, respectively. Compared to those of wild type and ispH, steady-state levels of rbcL transcripts are significantly decreased in vac1 (Fig. 7). By contrast, steady-state levels of rbcS transcripts are not affected in vac1 but are significantly decreased in ispH (Fig. 7). Similarly, compared to those of wild type, steady-state levels of CAB transcripts are only slightly reduced in vac1 but are dramatically decreased in ispH (Fig. 7). The vac1 mutants are albino lethal, which only retain limited ability in photosynthesis (Fig. 1). It is unexpected to observe that the amounts of rbcS and CAB transcripts are not or only slightly affected in the vac1 albino plants. We further examined the expression levels of several nucleus-encoded psa and psb genes in wild type, vac1 and ispH mutants by northern blot analysis. Interestingly, the results are very similar to those of rbcS and CAB. Compared to those of wild type, steady-state levels of psaD, psaE, psaF, psaL, psbO, psbP, psbR, psbS, psbW, psbX and psbY transcripts are not or only slightly affected in vac1 but are significantly decreased in ispH (Fig. 7). [[FIGURE]]  Norflurazon (NF) is a phytoene desaturase inhibitor that will block the synthesis of carotenoids. The signaling pathways (e.g. gun mutants) involved in NF-initiated plastid-to-nucleus retrograde regulation of CAB and rbcS genes have been established (Susek et al. CITATION; Koussevitzky et al. CITATION). To examine if the VAC1 PPR protein is involved in plastid-to-nucleus retrograde regulation, we used NF to treat wild type, vac1 and ispH albino plants. Six days old wild-type Arabidopsis, vac1 and ispH plants grown under normal condition were transferred to medium with or without NF for 6 days (Supplemental Fig. S4). Total RNA extracted from these samples was subject to northern blot analysis to examine the expression of retrograde-regulated genes, CAB, rbcS, ZAT10 and ZAT12 (Susek et al. CITATION; Pogson et al. CITATION). After NF treatment, steady-state levels of ZAT10 mRNA are decreased in wild type and ispH (Fig. 8). Interestingly, this NF-initiated retrograde regulation of ZAT10 does not exist in vac1. Instead of down-regulation, steady-state mRNA levels of ZAT10 are significantly increased in vac1 after NF treatment (Fig. 8). By contrast, steady-state levels of CAB, rbcS and ZAT12 mRNAs are further decreased in both vac1 and ispH albino mutants after NF treatment (Fig. 8). These results suggest that the VAC1 PPR protein may be required for the specific retrograde regulation of ZAT10 initiated by NF treatment. [[FIGURE]]  We used RT-PCR and bulk sequencing of the amplified cDNAs to examine all 34 chloroplast RNA editing sites in 2-week-old wild type, vac1 and ispH mutants. We found that the editing of two sites in accD and one site in ndhF was significantly reduced in vac1 (Fig. 9a). One of the accD editing sites is located at the 794th nucleotide from the AUG of the accD mRNA. C-to-U editing at this position results in an S265L amino acid change. The other accD editing site is located in the 3′UTR. In ndhF, C-to-U editing at the 290th nucleotide from the AUG leads to an S97L amino acid change. To determine the editing efficiency of these sites, we cloned the RT-PCR products and randomly sequenced 100 independent clones from each sample. Compared to that of wild type, the editing efficiency of these three sites was significantly decreased in vac1 and was only slightly reduced in ispH (Fig. 9a, b). The accD (S265L) editing site is 100%, 62% and 81% edited in wild type, vac1 and ispH, respectively (Fig. 9a, b). The editing of accD (3′UTR) site is partial in wild type (55%) and ispH (48%), but is dramatically reduced in vac1 (8%; Fig. 9a, b). Similarly, the editing efficiency of ndhF (S97L) site is 95%, 49% and 87% in wild type, vac1 and ispH, respectively (Fig. 9a, b). [[FIGURE]]  Finding obtained here that the editing of accD (S265L) site is partially impaired in vac1 is different from its allelic mutant ecb2 (Yu et al. CITATION). We obtained the ecb2 (SALK_112251) line from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC) and examined the editing of accD (S265L), accD (3′UTR) and ndhF (S97L) sites in the albino plants. Our results indicate that the editing profiles of these sites in ecb2 are very similar to those of vac1 (Fig. 9a, compare vac1 to ecb2). By comparing the editing profiles among WT, vac1 and ispH, we have identified several RNA editing sites that are specifically affected in the ispH albino mutant. These RNA editing sites are located in ClpP (H187Y), atpF (P31L), psbE (P72S), and rpl23 (S30L) transcripts (Fig. 9c). In addition, the editing of ndhG (S17F), petL (P2L), rpoA (S67F) and rpoC1 (S170L) is reduced to similar levels in both vac1 and ispH albino mutants (Fig. 9d). The profiles of the other RNA editing sites are similar among wild type, vac1 and ispH (Supplemental Fig. S5).
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis vac1 albino mutant was originally isolated from ACR3 promoter-GUS transgenic lines (Hsieh and Goodman CITATION). Progeny of the ACR3p-GUS 73 line segregated green and albino plants in a ratio of 3:1. This line was later named vanilla cream1 (vac1). Genetic analysis confirmed that the vac1 albino mutant co-segregated with the T-DNA insertion. TAIL-PCR analysis was used to identify the genomic flanking sequence of vac1 T-DNA mutant (Liu et al. CITATION). Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia-0, vac1 and ispH mutants were grown on half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) plates [MS salts (Sigma), pH adjusted to 5.7 with 1 N KOH, 0.8% (w/v) agar] containing 2% sucrose, or in soil in the growth chamber at a light intensity of 80 μmolm−2 s−1 on a 16 h light/8 h dark cycle at 23°C. For norflurazon treatment, progeny of heterozygous vac1 and ispH mutants were grown on regular MS medium for 6 days to identify homozygous albino segregants. 6-day-old homozygous albino plants were then transferred to MS medium with or without 5 μM NF for 6 days. As a control, 6-day-old wild type Arabidopsis plants grown under a normal condition were transferred to MS medium with or without 5 μM NF for 6 days. Total RNA extracted from these samples was used for northern blot analysis. Chlorophyll fluorescence was measured using a pulse-amplitude-modulated (PAM) fluorometer (Walz, Germany). Minimal chlorophyll fluorescence (F 0 ) was measured under measuring light (650 nm) after 10 min of dark adaptation. Maximal chlorophyll fluorescence (F m ) was measured during a 1-s pulse of saturating white light (2,500 μmol m−2 s−1). The maximum quantum yield of PSII electron transport was calculated using the following equation: F v /F m = (F m − F 0 )/F m , where F v is variable chlorophyll fluorescence. For the extraction of chlorophylls and carotenoids, 2-week-old Arabidopsis seedlings were harvested and homogenized with 80% acetone (v/v). The determination of total chlorophylls and carotenoids in 3 independent samples of wild-type, vac1 and ispH seedlings grown in tissue culture was conducted as described (Lichtenthaler and Wellburn CITATION). Arabidopsis genomic DNA was extracted using a standard urea extraction buffer. For genomic Southern blot analysis, ten microgram of total DNA from 2-week-old wild-type, vac1 mutant and vac1 complemented line 9-2 was digested with Xho I. The following primers were used to make DIG-labeled single-stranded DNA probe for VAC1: 5′-TACTGGATATTCAGAGCGGG-3′, 5′-GTATCCATTCTAATCTCCAC-3′. Forty micrograms of total RNA extracted from 2-week-old Arabidopsis wild type and vac1 albino mutants grown in tissue culture were used for RNA gel blot analysis to detect the VAC1 transcripts. The same probe used for VAC1 genomic Southern blot analysis was used to detect the VAC1 transcripts in RNA gel blot analysis. The other primers used to make DIG-labeled probes for RNA gel blot analyses are listed in Supplemental Table S1. DIG probe labeling, pre-hybridization, hybridization, wash conditions and detection were performed according to Roche’s DIG Application Manual for Filter Hybridization. For RT-PCR analysis, total RNA was isolated from various organs of 6-week-old Arabidopsis grown in soil or 3-day-old etiolated seedlings exposed to light for 0, 1, 2 and 4 h using a phenol extraction protocol (Jackson and Larkins CITATION). One microgram of total RNA treated with DNase I was used as a template for first-strand cDNA synthesis in a volume of 20 μl with 1 μl of Superscript III RT (Invitrogen). The PCR regime was 30 s at 94°C, 30 s at 55°C and 1 min at 72°C with 25 cycles for the UBQ10 and 30 cycles for the VAC1 genes. The following primers were used for RT-PCR analyses. VAC1, 5′-TAGCGATGACAAGTACCATC-3′, 5′-GTATCCATTCTAATCTCCAC-3′; UBQ10, 5′-CGATTACTCTTGAGGTGGAG-3′, 5′-AGACCAAGTGAAGTGTGGAC-3′. The primers used to make probes for 4.5S, 5S, 16S and 23S rRNAs were designed as described (Kishine et al. CITATION). Chloroplast RNA editing sites were analyzed by RT-PCR and direct sequencing. Total RNA extracted from 2-week-old wild type, vac1 and ispH was used for RT-PCR with primers encompassing 34 known chloroplast RNA editing sites (Chateigner-Boutin and Small CITATION). Excerpts of sequencing chromatograms for all 34 editing sites were shown in Fig. 9 and Supplemental Fig. S5. TOPO cloning kit (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) was used to clone the amplified cDNAs derived from RT-PCR products harboring the accD (S265L), accD (3′UTR) and ndhF (S97L) editing sites from wild type, vac1 and ispH. Plasmids prepared from one hundred independent white colonies of each sample (total 900 clones) were sequenced to determine the editing efficiency of accD (S265L), accD (3′UTR) and ndhF (S97L). For the nucleotide at accD (S265L) editing site, 0 C and 100 T (100% edited) in wild type, 38 C and 62 T (62% edited) in vac1, and 19 C and 81 T in ispH (81%) were detected. For the nucleotide at accD (3′UTR) editing site, 45 C and 55 T (55% edited) in wild type, 92 C and 8 T (8% edited) in vac1 and 52 C and 48 T (48% edited) in ispH were detected. For the nucleotide at ndhF (S97L) editing site, 5 C and 95 T (95% edited) in wild type, 51 C and 49 T (49% edited) in vac1 and 13 C and 87 T (87% edited) in ispH were detected. The leaf samples from 2-week-old wild type or vac1 albino plants were fixed in 4% glutaraldehyde, 100 mM sodium cacodylate (pH7.2) for 16 h at 4°C, and postfixed with 1% osmium tetroxide in the same buffer for 6 h at 4°C. The fixed samples were dehydrated through a series of alcohol solutions and embedded in Spurr resin. Ultrathin sections were cut on a Reichert Ultracut-S (Leica Microsystems, Bannockburn, IL) and stained with uranyl acetate and lead citrate and viewed with a transmission electron microscope, JEOL 1200EX (JEOL USA, Peabody, MA). A 3.3 kb VAC1 (At1g15510) genomic clone encompassing the entire predicted 5′ intergenic region (422 bp), the VAC1 open reading frame, and the 3′ intergenic region (281 bp) was amplified by PCR and cloned into the Kpn I site of the binary vector pCambia1301, which contains a hygromycin selectable marker. The resulting construct was transformed into kanamycin resistant heterozygous vac1 (+/−) plants by floral dip (Clough and Bent CITATION). Successful transformants were selected from T1 plants grown on MS medium containing kanamycin and hygromycin. Genomic DNA extracted from green kanamycinR/hygromycinR primary transformants was used to determine the genotype of the VAC1 locus (+/− or −/−) by genomic Southern. Six of the 24 green hygromycinR primary transformants tested were vac1 (−/−) homozygous. In the T2 generation, about 100 seeds from each line were germinated on a hygromycin selective medium and all hygromycinR seedlings were green, an indication that the VAC1 genomic clone complements the albino phenotype in all lines. Genotypic and phenotypic characterizations of line 9-2, a representative T3 homozygous line for the VAC1 transgene and vac1 (−/−) locus are shown in Fig. 3c, d. The computer program ChloroP (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/ChloroP/) predicts that the length of VAC1 transit peptide is 52 amino acids. According to this prediction, the N-terminal cDNA sequence encoding the first 72 amino acids of VAC1 was amplified by PCR, digested with Nco I and Stu I, and cloned into the N-terminus of a GFP expression vector driven by a CaMV 35S promoter (Chiu et al. CITATION). The primers used are: 5′-CCTTCCATGGCGTCTTCTGCTCAAAG-3′, 5′-CTCTAGGCCTATTCGCGCAGAGTCCATGTA-3′. The resulting construct, which encodes the first 72 N-terminal amino acids of VAC1 fused to GFP, was transformed into Arabidopsis protoplasts and observed under confocal laser scanning microscope 510 META Zeiss.
