!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis genome has two fumarase genes, one of which encodes a protein with mitochondrial targeting information (FUM1) while the other (FUM2) does not. We show that a FUM1–green fluorescent protein fusion is directed to mitochondria while FUM2–red fluorescent protein remains in the cytosol. While mitochondrial FUM1 is an essential gene, cytosolic FUM2 is not required for plant growth. However FUM2 is required for the massive accumulation of carbon into fumarate that occurs in Arabidopsis leaves during the day. In fum2 knock-out mutants, fumarate levels remain low while malate increases, and these changes can be reversed with a FUM2 transgene. The fum2 mutant has lower levels of many amino acids in leaves during the day compared with the wild type, but higher levels at night, consistent with a link between fumarate and amino acid metabolism. To further test this relationship we grew plants in the absence or presence of nitrogen fertilizer. The amount of fumarate in leaves increased several fold in response to nitrogen in wild-type plants, but not in fum2. Malate increased to a small extent in the wild type but to a greater extent in fum2. Growth of fum2 plants was similar to that of the wild type in low nitrogen but much slower in the presence of high nitrogen. Activities of key enzymes of nitrogen assimilation were similar in both genotypes. We conclude that FUM2 is required for the accumulation of fumarate in leaves, which is in turn required for rapid nitrogen assimilation and growth on high nitrogen.
!~RES~! The Arabidopsis genome encodes two fumarases designated FUM1 (At2g47510) and FUM2 (At5g50950). The two genes have an identical exon structure and encode two proteins that are 95% identical at the amino acid sequence level throughout the whole length, with the exception of the N-terminal region. The coding information of exon 1 in each gene differs such that FUM1 and FUM2 encode amino termini of 25 and 32 amino acids (respectively) with little similarity, while the subsequent 23 residues of this exon are identical. This implies that the two genes have arisen recently by gene duplication with formation of a different first exon. This is probably not the result of duplication of a chromosome segment since the genes immediately upstream and downstream of FUM1 and FUM2 are different. FUM1 is predicted to be targeted to the mitochondrion and is detected in the mitochondrial proteome by mass spectrometry (CITATION). The location of FUM2 is unclear. To establish the subcellular location of these two enzymes we constructed FUM1–green fluorescent protein (GFP) and FUM2–red fluorescent protein (RFP) fusions in which the N- and C-terminal sequences of FUM are preserved. The transgenes, whose expression was driven by the 35S promoter, were introduced into A. thaliana cell cultures by biolistic bombardment, together with plasmids encoding markers for mitochondria (RFP ‘mCherry’) and cytosol (yellow fluorescent protein, YFP). After transient expression for 36 h, fluorescence was visualized by confocal laser microscopy. Strong positive correlations showed that FUM1–GFP co-localized with the mitochondrial mCherry, while FUM2–RFP co-localized with the cytosolic YFP marker (Figure 1a). To provide further confirmation for the distinct subcellular localization of FUM1 and FUM2, Arabidopsis stable transformants were created containing both FUM1–GFP and FUM2–RFP transgenes. Roots of transgenic lines expressing both GFP and RFP were examined by epifluorescence microscopy. FUM1–GFP clearly localized to structures consistent with mitochondria while FUM2–RFP was distributed throughout the cytoplasmic strands of the cell (Figure 1b). Imaging of living cells showed GFP in mitochondria-like organelles migrating along the cytoskeleton, while RFP exhibited cytoplasmic streaming (results not shown). We could see no evidence of FUM1 in the cytosol or of FUM2 in mitochondria, although such possibilities cannot be excluded. We conclude that in Arabidopsis distinct genes encode mitochondrial and cytosolic fumarases, unlike yeast and human in which a single gene encodes both forms. [[FIGURE]] Expression of these two FUM genes is not readily established from publicly available transcriptome data because they are not identified separately on microarrays. To determine if the FUM2 gene expression pattern gives any clues to its possible function, we carried out qualitative RT-PCR analysis on RNA from different tissues. The results show that FUM2 is expressed weakly in seedlings but more strongly in leaves (Figure 2a). Previous quantitative analysis (CITATION) shows that the level of FUM2 RNA in rosette leaves is higher in the light than in the dark, but total fumarase activity remains constant throughout the diurnal cycle. [[FIGURE]] A putative T-DNA knock-out mutant of FUM1 was characterized. While heterozygous fum1/FUM1 plants could be readily obtained, we failed to isolate homozygous fum1 knock-out plants from self-fertilized heterozygotes. We did not investigate if this was due to lethality of gametes or embryo. However, we conclude that FUM1 is an essential enzyme, consistent with its role in the tricarboxylic acid cycle. Antisense inhibition of mitochondrial fumarase gene expression in tomato resulted in decreases of fumarase activity of up to 75%, so presumably the remaining 25% of enzyme activity was sufficient for plant growth and reproduction (CITATION). However, these transgenic plants had altered photosynthesis and partitioning of resources between roots and shoot (CITATION). We isolated two independent mutants for FUM2, both with T-DNA insertions in exon 4. Both are confirmed as null mutants since no transcript could be detected in either case (Figure 2b). We assayed total fumarase activity in extracts of leaves of both fum2 mutants, and found that it was reduced by approximately 85% relative to the wild type (Figure 2c). This implies that FUM2 accounts for much more activity than FUM1 in leaves. Subsequent results presented in this paper are for fum2-1 but were confirmed by analysis of fum2-2. Seed germination of fum2-1 and fum2-2 mutants was indistinguishable from that of the wild type. To determine if FUM2 is required for beta-oxidation, the glyoxylate cycle or gluconeogenesis during seedling growth, we compared in vitro growth of fum2-1 mutant with the glyoxylate cycle mutant icl-1 (CITATION). Growth of the icl-1 mutant is severely compromised in both light and dark, although it can be rescued with sucrose (Figure 3). In contrast, fum2-1 seedlings grown in the presence or absence of light or sucrose are indistinguishable from the wild type (Figure 3). Root growth of fum2-1 seedlings was also inhibited by 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, a beta-oxidation-dependent inhibitor of growth (results not shown). These observations demonstrate that FUM2 is not apparently required for seedling growth and do not support the proposal that cytosolic fumarase plays a key role in lipid metabolism in seedlings (CITATION). This conclusion is consistent with the observed pattern of FUM2 gene expression, which is much stronger in leaves than seedlings (Figure 2a). The gas chromatography–mass spectrometry (GC-MS) analysis of extracts from seedlings on day 2 after imbibition provides further support for this conclusion, showing that the fum2-1 metabolome is different from that of icl-1. Amino acids are present at wild-type levels in fum2-1 but are several-fold lower in icl-1. Hexoses are low in fum2-1 but even lower in icl-1, whereas organic acids are low in both fum2-1 and icl-1 (Table S1 in Supporting Information). [[FIGURE]] Wild-type and fum2-1 plants were grown in a sand/compost mixture in a 12–h light/12-h dark diurnal cycle to growth stage 3.90 (CITATION). Plant growth was not visibly different in fum2-1 compared with the wild type under these conditions. Extracts were prepared from rosette leaves at 3-h intervals and analysed by GC-MS for organic acid content. As expected, in the wild type fumarate and malate both increased several-fold during the day and decreased again at night (Figure 4a,b). In the fum2-1 mutant however, fumarate was present at a 10-fold lower level and malate at a two-fold higher level than in the wild type. Nevertheless, both increased during the day and decreased at night. To confirm that the observed changes in fumarate and malate are a direct consequence of removal of FUM2, we transformed fum2-1 with a transgene comprising the 35S promoter linked to FUM2 cDNA. Four independent transgenic lines were chosen for further analysis and shown to express the FUM2 cDNA as RNA (Figure 5a). Fumarase enzyme activity was measured in extracts of leaves from these lines, and shown to be increased to between 50 and 150% of wild-type activity (Figure 5b). Fumarate and malate levels were measured in the leaves of these transgenic plants at the end of the day and end of the night (Figure 5c,d). The transgene restored fumarate levels to much above that of fum2-1 and at the same time lowered malate to near wild-type levels. In addition, a positive linear correlation (R = 0.824) was observed between fumarase activity and amount of fumarate in the six different genotypes whereas a negative correlation (R = −0.717) was observed between fumarase activity and amount of malate. Therefore, we conclude that FUM2 is responsible for the accumulation of fumarate from malate in leaves. However, the diurnal regulation is only partially restored by the transgene and varies between different transgenic lines. For example lines D1 and D2 show normal diurnal regulation while lines D3 and D4 do not. We do not know the reason for this, but assume that transgene expression (especially when driven by a strong promoter such as a double 35S) does not faithfully replicate expression of the endogenous FUM2 gene. We see variable levels of RNA expression and enzyme activity in the four lines (Figure 5a,b). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The demonstration that FUM2 is required for the massive accumulation of fumarate, and the implication that this fumarate is synthesized from malate, led us to examine the relative contents of some other organic acids and amino acids. These were determined by GC-MS analysis of extracts of leaves at the end of the light period and end of the dark in fum2-1 and the wild type (Table 1). The results show that several amino acids are significantly lower in fum2-1 than in the wild type in the light, but in the dark they are higher in fum2-1. This trend is particularly apparent for glutamine. In contrast, succinate and citrate are significantly higher in fum2-1 in the light, but are no different in the dark. Thus, there appears to be a shift from amino acids to organic acids in the fum2-1 mutant in the light, consistent with the hypothesis that fumarate accumulation in the light is linked to nitrogen assimilation. WT, wild type. *P < 0.05. Since CITATION reported that much more fumarate accumulates in the starchless pgm1 mutant, we considered the possibility that with impaired fumarate accumulation in fum2-1, more carbon may be sequestered into starch. Iodine staining, and quantification of starch extracted from leaves at the end of the day and end of the night, shows that leaves of fum2-1 accumulate twice as much starch as the wild type (Figure 6a,b). This result, together with that of CITATION, implies that fumarate and starch serve as alternative and potentially flexible carbon sinks for photosynthate. It should be noted, however, that fum2-1 plants do not synthesize and break down more starch than the wild type during day and night (Figure 6b). Instead they probably accumulate a small amount of additional starch during each diurnal cycle, such that over a period of many cycles a starch-excess phenotype is observed. This is commonly seen in a range of starch-excess mutants (CITATION). One explanation for these observations could be that fum2 mutants are impaired in nitrate assimilation into amino acids and so accumulate some carbon in starch (CITATION). Transgenic lines of fum2-1 containing the 35S-FUM2 transgene still have a starch-excess phenotype. This may reflect the fact that in transgenic lines diurnal regulation of carboxylate levels is not fully restored to wild-type patterns (either temporally, spatially or quantitatively), so nitrate assimilation may still be impaired. [[FIGURE]] To further investigate the potential role of FUM2 and fumarate in nitrogen assimilation we used a soil-based experimental setup (CITATION) consisting of a high-nitrogen treatment at which rosette growth is maximal and a low-nitrogen treatment at which relative growth rate of the rosette is decreased by about 20%, thus resulting in a two- to threefold decrease in aerial biomass in plants at the age of 35–40 days after germination. Plants were harvested after 42 days at the end of the day for analysis of fresh weight, key metabolites and enzyme activities (Figure 7). [[FIGURE]] As shown previously (CITATION), in plants grown with high nitrogen, nitrate content as well as nitrate reductase were strongly increased (Figure 7a,b) while total amino acids were decreased (Figure 7a). Chlorophyll (not shown), protein content and most enzyme activities did not change under low versus high nitrogen (Figure 7a,b). None of these responses to nitrogen were different in the fum2-1 mutant. However, whereas the fumarate content of wild-type leaves was increased several-fold on high nitrogen, that of fum2-1 did not increase (Figure 7c). Malate was only marginally higher in the wild type in the presence of nitrogen, but was relatively much higher in fum2-1. This observation is consistent with the previous data (Figure 5) suggesting that malate accumulates when fumarate synthesis is blocked. Strikingly, while there was little difference in biomass between the two genotypes when no nitrogen was added, the wild type had twice the fresh weight of fum2-1 plants (P-value for genotype × nitrogen treatment equaled 0.0058) in the presence of added nitrogen (Figure 7d). This result indicates that FUM2, and by implication fumarate accumulation during the day, is required for rapid nitrogen assimilation and plant growth. While total amino acids and protein are similar in amount in fum2-1 and wild-type leaves on a fresh weight basis, wild-type plants have assimilated much more nitrogen since the plants have much greater mass. The differences between genotypes in growth, and by implication nitrogen assimilation, are not explained by differences in nitrate content of leaves or the activities of key enzymes of nitrogen assimilation since these were not significantly different (Figure 7a,b). We conclude that the accumulation of fumarate catalysed by FUM2 is required for effective assimilation of nitrogen and growth of A. thaliana on high nitrogen.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana seeds were surface-sterilized, stratified and germinated as previously described (CITATION). Seedlings were grown on half-strength MS medium (Sigma-Aldrich, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/) with or without 1% (w/v) sucrose in continuous light (100 μmol m−2 sec−1) at 22°C for 7 days before transfer to a mix of compost and sand (3:1). This compost mixture provided adequate nutrients for Arabidopsis growth but the inorganic nitrogen content was not analysed. Plants were then grown at 22°C with a 12-h light (150 μmol m−2 sec−1) and 12-h dark photoperiod. For growth with added nitrogen, plants were grown as described in CITATION. Thus, at 14 days after germination, plants were transferred to individual 100 cm3 pots containing either 1.25 mg (low-nitrogen treatment) or 31.5 mg (high-nitrogen treatment) of inorganic nitrogen. Plants were then grown for 1 week in a 8-h/16-h day/night cycle and then for 3 weeks in a 12-h/12-h day/night cycle, at 20°C, 80% constant relative humidity and a light intensity of 150 μmol m−2 sec−1. Thus, plants were harvested at 42 days after germination. Plants were harvested at the end of the day. Arabidopsis seed lines containing T-DNA insertion in the FUM2 gene (At5g50950) were obtained from the SALK collection for fum2-1 (SALK_025631; CITATION) and the GABI-Kat collection for fum2-2 (GABI-Kat 107E05; CITATION). A PCR-based screening was used to identify the homozygous plants for T-DNA insertions. The gene-specific primers FUM2_For (5′-GAAGGAGAGAAGAAAAACG-3′) and FUM2_Rev (5′-CATGAACATGTTTTCTCTTGCT-3′) were used in combination with T-DNA left border primers (CITATION). A GABI-Kat line (205C10) containing a T-DNA insertion in FUM1 (At2g47510) was analysed but no homozygous line was obtained. RNA was isolated from leaves using the Qiagen RNAeasy kit (Qiagen, http://www1.qiagen.com/) and used to generate cDNA with the Qiagen Omniscript RT-PCR kit. Polymerase chain reaction was performed for 30–35 cycles with gene-specific primers (5′–3′) as follows: FUM1 (At2g47510) (CTCACACTCAAGATGCTACACC and GCACGCCTAAATTCAGAGCCGC), FUM2 (At5g50950) (GAAGGAGAGAAGAAAAACG and CATGAACATGTTTTCTCTTGCT), ACT2 (At3g18780) (CAACCAATCGTGTGTGA and CTGTGAACGATTCCTGGA). The plasmids used were based on the double CaMV 35S promoter and CaMV terminator cassette inserted into the binary vectors pGreen0179, and pGreen0049 which confer plant resistance to hygromycin and kanamycin, respectively, and bacterial kanamycin resistance (CITATION). The cDNA clones were obtained from Riken (RAFL07-14-B18 for FUM1 and RAFL06-77-G02 for FUM2; CITATION). The PCR-based insert was performed using PFU polymerase (Promega, http://www.promega.com/). The FUM2 coding sequence was cloned in the pGreen0179 binary vector under the control of double CaMV 35S promoter and CaMV terminator. This plasmid is called pGreen:35S::FUM2, and was used for mutant complementation. For the subcellular localization experiment, pGreen0179:FUM1-GFP and pGreen0049:FUM2-RFP were constructed by PCR-based fusion of the GFP sequence into the middle of the FUM1 coding sequence (at the nucleotide base position between 660 and 661) and the RFP sequence into the FUM2 coding sequence (at the nucleotide base position between 681 and 682). Both FUM1–GFP and FUM2–RFP inserts were then cloned into the double CaMV 35S promoter and CaMV terminator regions of pGreen to create binary vectors pGreen FUM1–GFP and pGreen FUM2–RFP, respectively. Plasmid constructs were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 (CITATION), and Arabidopsis was subjected to transformation by the floral dip method (CITATION). Seed collected from dipped plants was screened on the appropriate antibiotic and resistant seedlings were selected and verified by PCR. For the fumarase enzyme assay, each sample was prepared by harvesting 100 mg of plant tissue, ground with 1 ml of extraction buffer (150 mm Tricine-KOH pH 7.5, 10 mm KCl, 1 mm MgCl2, 1 mm EDTA and 5 mm DTT), centrifuged at 15 000 g for 5 minutes and supernatant was collected for enzyme assay. The fumarase activity was measured through the fumarase and NADP–malic enzyme coupled assay described by (CITATION). Starch staining and quantification were determined as previously described (CITATION). Protein content was quantified as reported (CITATION) using BSA as a standard. Chlorophyll, nitrate and total amino acids were determined as in CITATION, malate and fumarate as in CITATION and nitrate reductase, ferredoxin-glutamate synthase, glutamine synthetase and glutamate dehydrogenase as in CITATION. For co-localization studies, pAN581 (YFP; CITATION) and pBIN20 (mCherry with a Cox4ts mitochondrial targeting peptide; CITATION) were used as a cytosolic marker and a mitochondrial marker, respectively. The two combinations of plasmids (FUM1–GFP/pBIN20–mito-mCherry and FUM2–RFP/pAN581–YFP) were precipitated onto 1-μm gold particles and biolistically transformed into Arabidopsis cultured cells as described by CITATION. Co-localization was performed using a Leica TCS SP2 AOBS multiphoton confocal laser microscope (http://www.leica.com/) with laser excitation of 488 nm and 561 nm. Emissions were collected in windows between 500 and 525 nm for GFP, 520 and 540 nm for YFP and 585 and 610 nm for RFP/mCherry. In order to confirm the presence of the two signals in transformed cells, lamda scans with 15-nm steps were performed using the 488-nm Ag laser for GFP and for YFP and the 561-nm diode for RFP and mCherry. Quantitative statistical co-localization was estimated with the PSC plug-in for ImageJ according to CITATION where a threshold of 1 was set up for the background. The in vivo visualization of fluorescent proteins in roots from transgenic FUM1–GFP and FUM2–RFP plants was performed using an epifluorescence microscope (Olympus BX61, http://www.olympus.com/) with HQ-GFP and HQ-RFP filters. Fluorescence and bright field images were acquired with CellR software (Olympus Soft Imaging Solutions, http://www.soft-imaging.net). The brightness and contrast of the raw images were adjusted with ImageJ 1.37c. Plant tissues (10–30 mg) were snap frozen and pulverized in liquid nitrogen. The enzymes in the tissue were inactivated by heating at 70°C for 15 min in 500 μl of extraction solution (methanol:water = 20:3, with ribitol as the internal standard). Cell debris was removed by centrifugation at 15 000 g for 5 minutes. For each sample, 60 μl of supernatant was transferred to a new tube and dried using a SpeedVac. The residue was dissolved in 20 μl of pyridine with methoxylamine hydrochloride (20 mg ml−1) and incubated at 30°C for 90 min with shaking. Metabolites were converted to trimethylsilyl derivatives by reacting at 37°C for 30 min with 30 μl of N-methyl-N-trimethylsilyltrifluoroacetamide. The metabolite derivatives were analysed by GC-MS (Agilent 6890 gas chromatograph coupled with a 5973N mass selective detector, http://www.agilent.com/). The GC-MS data were processed by amdis. Metabolite derivatives were identified by comparison of the retention time and mass spectra of authentic standards, and the amount of metabolites was calculated by total ion current signal of each metabolite peak normalized to the ribitol internal standard and tissue weight. The absolute amounts of fumarate and malate were calculated using Chemstation software (http://www.chem.agilent.com/). A calibration method was established using ribitol as the internal standard in which the calibration curves for both funarate and malate ranged from 0.1 to 100 nmol (on the column) with very good linearity (R2 > 0.99). Eicosinoic acid (C20:1) was determined according to CITATION.
