!~ABS~! Though shoot apical meristems (SAMs) commonly exhibit low or no competence for transformation, the potent regeneration of this tissue merits further research. Especially, when shoot regeneration is recalcitrant using other tissues as explants, SAM probably is an excellent selection. In cockscomb plants, using SAMs from seedlings obtained from MS medium with 0.5 mg l−1 6-BA as explants, high frequency of transformation (approximate 20%) is obtained; whereas control SAMs performed poorly for transformation (approximate 3%). These SAMs are malformed in morphology compared to control SAMs. Further observation found that, in these SAMs, cell proliferation and/or TE formation are seen; which are not found in control SAMs. GUS assays indicated that GUS-positive blue spots at TE zones are obvious; whereas the case was contrary in control SAMs. All these data suggest that cell proliferation and/or TE formation might cause high effective transformation. This transformation system should facilitate the use of this species for studies on gene manipulation and expression. Therefore, we introduced 35S:ASL11–GFP to cockscomb via Agrobacterium tumefaciens. ASYMMETRIC LEAVES2-LIKE11 (ASL11) gene of Arabidopsis is a member of the ASYMMETRIC LEAVES2 (AS2)/LATERAL ORGAN BOUNDARIES (LOB) domain gene family, and its function is largely unclear. By confocal laser scanning microscopy, we found that in most over 35S:ASL11–GFP cockscomb plants, ASL11–GFP fusion protein was in discrete nuclear location. These results indicate that the T-DNA contains within the construct inserted into the host chromosomes in an integral form, and also suggest that ASL11 might be a nuclear protein and function as a potential transcription factor. Moreover, SAMs of the over 35S:ASL11–GFP plants show needle-like patterns that lack organ primordial; suggesting ASL11 might be involved in sustaining indeterminate cell fate of SAMs.
!~RES~! Using SAMs from seedling obtained from MS medium with 0.0 mg l−1 6-BA as starting material, transformation frequency was not significantly altered at 15-to-30-day-developmental age of explants (Fig. 1A, D; On-line Supplementary Data: Table 1). By contrast, using SAMs from seedling obtained from MS medium with 0.5 mg l−1 6-BA as starting material, the number was slightly altered at 15-to-30-day-developmental age of explants (Fig. 1A, C; On-line Supplementary Data: Table 2). Moreover, using SAMs from 20-day-seedlings obtained from MS medium with 0.5 mg l−1 6-BA as starting material; the highest number assayed by PCR was 18.1% (n = 72) (Celosia-Cristata) and 20.8% (n = 72) (Celosia plumosus) (On-line Supplementary Data: Fig. 1B; Table 2), whereas using SAMs from 20-day-seedling obtained from MS medium with 0.0 mg l−1 6-BA as starting material, the number assayed by PCR was 3.2% (n = 62) (Celosia cristata) and 3.2% (n = 62) (Celosia plumosus) (data of PCR not shown; On-line Supplementary Data: Table 1). Rooting and transplantation of transgenic cockscomb plants were performed (Fig. 1b), as was described in [CITATION]. [[FIGURE]]  To better elucidate why using these malformed SAMs can dramatically enhance the transformation frequency, we characterized the anatomical features of their SAMs. In control seedlings, leaf primordial initiated from flanks of SAMs; and their SAMs showed patterning of a rounded hump or protuberance (Fig. 2a–d; arrow); whereas though organ primordial was also initiated from SAM flanks, these malformed SAMs displayed the extended patterns (Fig. 2e–h; arrow). Furthermore, in these malformed SAMs, transdifferentiation of cells from nonvascular tissues into TE-like cells was observed, which was never found in control SAMs (Fig. 2i, j; arrow). The wall thickenings of TE-like cells were also seen (Fig. 2i, j; arrow). It was well known that cells in control SAMs were smaller and more densely cytoplasmic than the progressively larger cells seen surrounding the meristem (Fig. 2d; arrow), whereas patterning of cell expansion always was seen in these malformed SAMs (Fig. 2k, l; arrow). The abnormal cell patterning of these malformed SAMs suggests that they might be actively dividing cells. Thus, these malformed SAMs might be involved in strong cell-division and transdifferentiation, which might result in competence for transformation. [[FIGURE]]  The anatomical features reveal that these malformed SAMs contain proliferation and transdifferentiation cells. Thus we speculate that these cells might be high competent state for transformation, and thus result in high transformation frequency. To confirm this hypothesis, we performed GUS expression in these malformed SAMs. GUS assays indicated that highly effective transformation occurred as displayed by GUS-positive blue spots at specific zones in these malformed SAMs (Fig. 3a, b, d; arrow); whereas the case was contrary in control SAMs (Fig. 3c; arrow). These data indicate that GUS-positive blue spots of two kinds of SAMs were consistent with their transformation frequency. Furthermore, by observing the anatomical features of GUS expression, we found that, in the transdifferentiation and long cells of these malformed SAMs, GUS gene was strongly expressed (Fig. 4b, c; arrow); whereas the case was contrary in control SAMs (Fig. 4a; arrow). In general, our data suggest that there is a close relationship between competent state and proliferation or transdifferentiation cells; and GUS-positive blue spots of two kinds of SAMs were approximately consistent with their transformation frequency. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  To conclusively determine the subcellular localization of ASL11, we generated a fusion construct in which the ASL11 coding sequence was fused to GFP and expressed from the 35S promoter. Using our transformation protocol, we introduced 35S:ASL11–GFP to cockscomb plants. Quantification of RT-PCR indicated ASL11 strongly expressed in 35S:ASL11 cockscomb plants but not in wild-type (On-line Supplementary Data: Fig. 2B). Furthermore, ASL11–GFP expressions in the leaves of the over 35S:ASL11 cockscomb plants are visualized by confocal laser scanning microscopy. A GFP-only control was localized to both the cytoplasm and the nucleus (data not shown); whereas the ASL11–GFP fusion in the leaves of most the over 35S:ASL11 cockscomb plants (18/23) were exclusively localized in nuclei (Fig. 5). The data suggest that ASL11 was a nuclear protein and functioned as a potential transcription factor. We also found that ASL11–GFP fusion protein was localized in discrete subnuclear bodies (Fig. 6). These bodies were observed in the central of the nucleoplasm (Fig. 6). These results also indicate that the T-DNA contains within the construct inserted into the host chromosomes in an integral form. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  The ASL11–GFP fluorescence in the guard cells of mature the over 35S:ASL11 cockscomb leaf (10/23) was also intensive. Optical sectioning through the center of the cell testified that the ASL11–GFP was localized to the central of stomata in guard cells (Fig. 7; arrow). The result suggests that the ASL11–GFP fusion protein may also be localized on the plasma membrane. [[FIGURE]]  The SAMs of wild-type cockscomb showed the pattern of a rounded hump or protuberance, whereas the SAMs of the over 35S:ASL11 cockscomb plants (12/23) arrested activity after formation of some lateral branches, terminating in a needle-like pattern that lacked organ primordial (Fig. 8a, c). Strong signals from ASL11–GFP under the control of the 35S promoter were detected in cells at these malformed SAMs (12/23), whereas no any signals were detected in cells at control SAMs (Fig. 8b, d). These data indicate that these malformed SAMs might be triggered by overexpression of ASL11. [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! Cockscomb (Celosia cristata and Celosia plumosus) seeds were obtained from Flower Seed Corporation of Beijing (Beijing, China). These seeds were surface-sterilized with 70% alcohol for 1 min and 0.1% (v/v) HgCl2 for 15–20 min, rinsed three times with sterile water, and germinated on MS medium with 0.0 or 0.5 mg l−1 6-BA. Seedlings were grown under 14-h-light/10-h-dark cycles with cool white fluorescent light of 100 umol m−2 s−1 at 21 ± 2°C [CITATION]. In this transformation protocol, we used the vector of plasmid pBI121 containing NPTII and GUS genes (On-line Supplementary Data: Fig. 1A). And we also used the binary vector pBIN- pMD-18T, which contains the GFP and coding sequences of ASL11 (On-line Supplementary Data: Fig. 2A). Two kinds of plasmids were introduced into A. tumefaciens strain GV3101 [CITATION]. SAMs from seedlings obtained from MS medium with 0.0 or 0.5 mg l−1 6-BA were used as the starting material for transformation. Transformation protocol was described in [CITATION]. Rooting and transplantation was described in [CITATION]. Expression of ASL11–GFP activity was observed by confocal laser scanning microscopy [CITATION]. T1 transgenic cockscomb plants were testified by PCR using an nptII forward (5-gaggctattcggctatgact-3) and reverse primers (5-aatctcgtgatggcaggttg-3) as primers [CITATION]. For ASL11 amplification, The ASL11 PCR primers were as follows: Forward (5′-cgcggatccaccgaagtagttgttctcac-3′) and reverse (5′-ctgaatgtcaagagaaagggag-3′). Quantification of RT-PCR of ASL11 was performed using the Scion Image program, as was described in [CITATION, CITATION]. For testing GUS expression, SAMs were first precultured. Histochemical GUS assays were conducted according to Jefferson’s standard protocol [CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION]. After SAMs were used for transient GUS expression assays after 3 days of co-cultivation, they were immersed in a substrate solution containing 0.1 M NaHPO4 buffer (pH 7.0), 0.5 mM K3[Fe(CN)6], 0.5 mM K4[Fe(CN)6], 10 mM EDTA and 500 mg l−1 X-Gluc, and 0.1% Triton-X100 at 37°C overnight. Chlorophyll in explants was removed by adding FAA (10 ml formaldehyde: 5 ml glacial acetic acid: 85 ml 80% ethanol) for 10 min, followed by 10 min fixation in 50 and 80% ethanol; and expression of GUS activity were observed by confocal microscopy.
