!~ABS~! SHMT (serine hydroxymethyltransferase; EC 2.1.2.1) catalyses reversible hydroxymethyl group transfer from serine to H4PteGlun (tetrahydrofolate), yielding glycine and 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate. In plastids, SHMTs are thought to catalytically direct the hydroxymethyl moiety of serine into the metabolic network of H4PteGlun-bound one-carbon units. Genes encoding putative plastid SHMTs were found in the genomes of various plant species. SHMT activity was detected in chloroplasts in pea (Pisum sativum) and barley (Hordeum vulgare), suggesting that plastid SHMTs exist in all flowering plants. The Arabidopsis thaliana genome encodes one putative plastid SHMT (AtSHMT3). Its cDNA was cloned by reverse transcription–PCR and the encoded recombinant protein was produced in Escherichia coli. Evidence that AtSHMT3 is targeted to plastids was found by confocal microscopy of A. thaliana protoplasts transformed with proteins fused to enhanced green fluorescent protein. Characterization of recombinant AtSHMT3 revealed that substrate affinity for and the catalytic efficiency of H4PteGlu1-8 increase with n, and that H4PteGlu1-8 inhibit AtSHMT3. 5-Methyltetrahydrofolate and 5-formyltetrahydrofolate with one and five glutamate residues inhibited AtSHMT3-catalysed hydroxymethyl group transfer from serine to H4PteGlu6, with the pentaglutamylated inhibitors being more effective. Calculations revealed inhibition with 5-methyltetrahydrofolate or 5-formyltetrahydrofolate resulting in little reduction in AtSHMT3 activity under folate concentrations estimated for plastids.
!~RES~! Protein sequences of representative dicotyledons (A. thaliana, P. trichocarpa and V. vinifera) and monocotyledons (O. sativa, Z. mays and B. distachyon), as well as a moss (P. patens) and two green algae (C. reinhardtii and O. lucimarinus) were retrieved from GenBank®, http://www.phytozome.net and http://www.brachypodium.org databases for use in the phylogenetic analysis (Figure 1). The complete genomes of the plant species used in this analysis have been published. [[FIGURE]] Overall, the phylogenetic analysis showed that SHMTs from the same plant species but putatively targeted to different subcellular compartments are less similar to each other than they are to SHMTs from other plant species putatively targeted to the same organelle. The SHMT protein sequences clustered into two main groups on the phylogenetic tree (Figure 1). The first group (group I) divided into two subgroups (Ia and Ib). Subgroup Ia comprised monocotyledon SHMTs with N-terminal extensions predicted as plastid targeting peptides (subgroup Ia2), as well as monocotyledon SHMTs (subgroup Ia1) and those of the remaining plant species (subgroup Ia3) with no N-terminal extensions and so predicted to localize in the cytosol. The ZmSHMT4 protein sequence in subgroup Ia2 carries a putative plastid-targeting peptide at the N-terminus. The OsSHMT3 protein sequence in this subgroup is encoded by the Os12g0409000 (GenBank®) and Os12g22030 (http://www.phytozome.net) predicted genes. Their DNA sequences are identical except for the N-terminal extension encoding a putative plastid-targeting peptide, which is absent from the Os12g0409000 sequence, but present in the Os12g22030 sequence. The O. sativa EST (expressed sequence tag) database contains three ESTs (CT853747, CK063929 and CI307114) with the N-terminus present in the Os12g22030 sequence, and no ESTs with the N-terminus present in the Os12g0409000 sequence. Thus we think that the Os12g0409000 and Os12g22030 sequences represent the same gene, that the Os12g22030 sequence encodes the full-length plastid SHMT, and that, during annotation, the Os12g0409000 sequence was probably incorrectly spliced at the N-terminus. It is also possible that alternative splicing can produce mRNA and protein products encoded by the Os12g0409000 gene; we found, however, no support for this possibility upon analysing EST sequences. The BdSHMT3 protein sequence in subgroup Ia2 is encoded by the Bradi4g08100 predicted gene in the http://www.brachypodium.org database. The Bradi4g08100 sequence lacks the N-terminal extension predicted to encode the plastid-targeting peptide; we found, however, that the B. distachyon genome encodes such an extension upstream of the Bradi4g08100 sequence (see Supplementary Figure S1 at http://www.BiochemJ.org/bj/430/bj4300097add.htm). Thus we think that, during annotation, the Bradi4g08100 sequence was probably incorrectly spliced at the N-terminus. An alignment showing predicted protein sequences of putative plastid SHMTs from selected monocotyledons is shown in Supplementary Figure S1. Subgroup Ib comprised SHMTs with N-terminal extensions generally not recognized by prediction programs as organellar-targeting peptides (results not shown). Members of subgroup Ib were also predicted to carry nuclear-targeting signals at the C-terminus; we therefore assigned putative nuclear localization to the proteins in subgroup Ib. Proteins from dicotyledons, monocotyledons and the moss were found in subgroups Ia and Ib. Only one protein for each species of algae was found in group I: OlSHMT3 from O. lucimarinus clustered with subgroup Ia; CrSHMT3 from C. reinhardtii shared roughly equal sequence similarity with both subgroups. The sequence distribution within group I suggests that plants evolved separate SHMTs for the nucleus and the cytosol after the evolution of algae, and before the evolution of mosses, and that plastid SHMTs in monocotyledons evolved within this clade from the cytosolic isoforms. The second group (group II) comprised SHMTs with N-terminal extensions generally recognized by prediction programs as organellar-targeting peptides (results not shown). This group divided into two subgroups, with SHMTs predicted to localize either in plastids (IIa) or in mitochondria (IIb); this suggests that organellar SHMT isoforms evolved before the speciation of vascular plants. We found no SHMTs from monocotyledons that clustered with putative plastid SHMTs from the other plant species. The above-described bioinformatic analysis predicting the existence of SHMTs in monocotyledon plastids contradicted a previous work reporting no SHMT activity in wheat chloroplasts [CITATION]. Thus we examined SHMT activity in plastids of pea, a representative dicotyledon, and barley, a representative monocotyledon, with leaf extracts serving as positive assay controls. Chloroplasts of both species were found to have nearly equal levels of SHMT activity (Figure 2); this contradicts previous biochemical evidence [CITATION] and supports the bioinformatic prediction for the occurrence of this activity in monocotyledon plastids. [[FIGURE]] Purification of recombinant AtSHMT3 is shown in Figure 3. Untagged recombinant enzymes were used in all subsequent work. AtSHMT3 was assayed for activity in the presence of various H4PteGlu1-8 concentrations and a constant serine concentration. Kinetic parameters derived from non-linear curve fitting to a model of uncompetitive substrate inhibition are presented in Table 1. Primary plots of steady-state kinetic data used to calculate the kinetic parameters are shown in Supplementary Figure S2 (at http://www.BiochemJ.org/bj/430/bj4300097add.htm). These data showed that the Km value decreases and the catalytic efficiency (kcat/Km) increases with n for H4PteGlu1-4, and that those two values remain nearly unchanged for H4PteGlu4-8. Increased polyglutamylation resulted in smaller relative decreases in the Ki values than in the Km values; the Ki/Km value increases approx. 18-fold for H4PteGlu2&3 and 54-fold for H4PteGlu4-8, compared with that for H4PteGlu1 (Table 1). A previous study in pea found increased affinity for folylpolyglutamate substrates by a mitochondrial SHMT for H4PteGlu1-3 [CITATION]; however, the enzyme's Km values for H4PteGlu>2 were not determined because of the lack of sensitivity of the radioassay used. Thus a comparison of the kinetic properties of SHMTs from different subcellular compartments in plant cells awaits completion of their biochemical characterization. An SHMT activity assay we developed recently [CITATION] may ease detailed biochemical characterization of other plant SHMTs because this assay is at least three orders of magnitude more sensitive than the standard radioassay [CITATION] under comparable experimental conditions. [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]] Limited sensitivity of the standard radioassay is the most likely cause for the lack of published kinetic parameters for H4PteGlu>1 for SHMTs from other organisms. The exception is a study reporting kinetic parameters for H4PteGlu>1 for an SHMT from pig liver; the study reports a decrease in the Km value for H4PteGlun when n=1–3, 14-fold when n=1 or 2 and 2.3-fold when n=2 or 3 [CITATION]. To increase understanding of how folylpolyglutamylation affects catalysis, earlier studies in mammalian SHMTs addressed the issue by determining the dissociation constants (Kd values) for binding of H4PteGlun to SHMT. Those studies found that the Kd value for H4PteGlun decreases when n=1–6 for an SHMT from rabbit liver mitochondria [CITATION], and decreases when n=1–3 and remains constant when n=3–6 for an SHMT from the rabbit liver cytosol [CITATION]. In an SHMT purified from pig liver, the Kd value decreases when n=1–3 and remains constant when n=3–7 [CITATION]. Thus studies in two mammals suggest that increased H4PteGlun polyglutamylation affects affinity for these substrates in an enzyme-specific manner. Future work will establish whether this holds true for plant enzymes. AtSHMT3 activity was inhibited by 5-CH3-H4PteGlu1&5 and 5-HCO-H4PteGlu1&5 (Table 2 and Supplementary Figure S3 at http://www.BiochemJ.org/bj/430/bj4300097add.htm). This is consistent with previous studies showing that 5-CH3-H4PteGlun species inhibit SHMTs from rabbit [CITATION,CITATION], and bind SHMTs from pig and E. coli [CITATION,CITATION]; and that 5-HCO-H4PteGlun species inhibit SHMTs from rabbit and pea mitochondria [CITATION,CITATION,CITATION], and bind SHMTs from human and zebrafish [CITATION–CITATION]. Furthermore, the pentaglutamate folates were more effective inhibitors than the monoglutamate folates (Table 2). This is consistent with previous studies showing that enzyme affinity for folylpolyglutamate inhibitors increases with the number of glutamate residues in mammalian SHMTs [CITATION,CITATION,CITATION,CITATION]. [[TABLE]] Subcellular localization of AtSHMT3 was examined by fusing the full-length protein sequence to EGFP. Green fluorescence produced by expression of this fusion protein in A. thaliana protoplasts appeared in the form of granules that overlapped with the red autofluorescence of chloroplasts (Figure 4). The granular appearance of EGFP-fusion proteins in chloroplasts has been observed previously [CITATION]. The cause for such an appearance is currently unclear. Green fluorescence was also visible throughout the cytoplasm in control protoplasts expressing EGFP alone (Figure 4). These findings thus establish that AtSHMT3 has a functional N-terminal peptide for its targeting to plastids. Consistently, AtSHMT3 has also been shown to localize in plastids by a proteomic approach [CITATION]. [[FIGURE]] Organ- and development-specific expression of AtSHMT3 was studied in silico using publicly available microarray data and the GENEVESTIGATOR software package. AtSHMT3 was expressed in all plant organs and at all developmental stages examined; the expression level in germinated seeds was around twice as high as those in all other organs (Figure 5). These findings suggest that AtSHMT3 is a housekeeping enzyme needed by all plant organs throughout development. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! (6R,S)-H4PteGlu1, (6R,S)-5,10-CH2-H4PteGlu1, (6R,S)-5-HCO-H4PteGlu1&5, (6R,S)-5-CH3-H4PteGlu1-5 and PteGlu1-8 were purchased from Schircks Laboratories. Benzonase nuclease and recombinant enterokinase were from Novagen. Oligonucleotides were from MWG. Percoll was from GE Healthcare. Serine was from Sigma–Aldrich. KBH4 was from Acros Organics. A. thaliana, ecotype Columbia, was grown in potting soil under 12 h light (100–120 μE·m−2·s−1)/12 h dark for 3 weeks at 22 °C. Pea, cv. Progress 9, and barley, cv. Bob, were respectively grown in coarse vermiculite and potting soil under 12 h light (75 μE·m−2·s−1)/12 h dark for 7–10 days at 22 °C during the light period and at 18 °C during the dark period. Putative SHMT protein sequences were obtained from GenBank®, http://www.phytozome.net and http://www.brachypodium.org databases using the BLASTP and TBLASTN prediction programs with AtSHMT3 as a query sequence. The phylogenetic analysis included SHMT protein sequences from nine representative plant species: A. thaliana, Populus trichocarpa, Vitis vinifera, O. sativa, Zea mays, Brachypodium distachyon, Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, Ostreococcus lucimarinus and Physcomitrella patens. These species were selected because their genomes have been fully sequenced. The accession numbers for the sequences used in the phylogenetic analysis are listed in Supplementary Table S1 at http://www.BiochemJ.org/bj/430/bj4300097add.htm. The phylogenetic tree was made with MEGA 4.0 [CITATION]. The neighbour-joining method included Poisson correction, complete deletion and (1000) bootstrap replication. The AtSHMT3 cDNA (At4g32520) was cloned by reverse transcription–PCR. Total A. thaliana RNA was isolated and reversetranscribed as described previously [CITATION]. The AtSHMT3 open reading frame was amplified using Taq2000 DNA polymerase (Stratagene) and the primer pair 5′-GACGACGACAAGATGCAAGCTTGTTGTGG-3′ (AtSHMT3 Forward) and 5′-GAGGAGAAGCCCGGTTTAAACGCCAGGAATGGGAA-3′ (AtSHMT3 Reverse). Note that the vector-specific sequences (underlined), needed for cloning into the pET Ek/LIC expression vectors (Novagen), flank the gene-specific sequences of the primers. The amplified open reading frame was purified with a Wizard PCR Prep mini-column (Promega), and then cloned into the pGEM-T Easy vector (Promega) to generate the pGEM-AtSHMT3 construct. The AtSHMT3 open reading frame, excluding the region coding for the putative organellar targeting peptide, was amplified from pGEM-AtSHMT3 using Pfu DNA polymerase (Stratagene) and the primer pair 5′-GACGACGACAAGATGAGAGCATCTTCAGT-3′ (AtSHMT3n Forward) and AtSHMT3 Reverse. The resulting PCR fragment was purified with a Wizard PCR column, treated with T4 DNA polymerase (Promega) and then inserted into the pET-44 Ek/LIC vector. All procedures were carried out in accordance with the manufacturer's protocols. All constructs were verified by DNA sequencing. The expression vectors were introduced into the Rosetta strain of E. coli (Novagen) to produce the recombinant protein. Bacteria carrying the expression vector were cultured at 37 °C in LB (Luria–Bertani) medium containing 100 μg/ml kanamycin and 34 μg/ml chloramphenicol until the A600 reached 0.6–1. After addition of isopropyl β-D-thiogalactopyranoside (200 μM final concentration), the culture was incubated further at 15 °C overnight. Induced E. coli cells expressing recombinant AtSHMT3 were harvested by centrifugation at 7500 g for 10 min at 4 °C. Bacterial cells were resuspended in 1 ml of buffer A {50 mM Tris/HCl, pH 8.5, 1 mM THP [tris-(3-hydroxypropyl)phosphine], 0.01 mM PLP (pyridoxal 5′-phosphate) and 10% glycerol} plus 25 units/ml Cenzonase® nuclease, and were mechanically broken with 0.1 mm zirconia/silica beads (BioSpec Products). Soluble protein extracts were cleared by centrifugation at 20800 g for 15 min at 4 °C, followed by filtering supernatants through a 0.45-μm pore-size PVDF membrane. The recombinant protein was purified by anion-exchange chromatography using an ÄKTA FPLC system equipped with a Mono Q 5/50 GL column (GE Healthcare); bound proteins were eluted using a linear gradient of buffer A to buffer A plus 1 M NaCl over 20 column volumes. Fractions containing the recombinant protein were desalted with PD-10 desalting columns (GE Healthcare) equilibrated with buffer A, and then digested with recombinant enterokinase. The digested recombinant enzyme was purified further on a Mono Q 5/50 GL column as described above; untagged AtSHMT3 was eluted in the flow-through. Fractions containing the recombinant enzyme were frozen in liquid N2 and stored at −80 °C until use. Freezing in liquid N2 had no effect on the activity of AtSHMT3. The recombinant enzyme for activity assays was desalted with 50 mM Ches [2-(N-cyclohexylamino)ethanesulfonic acid]/Hepes/citric acid buffer (pH 8.5) [CITATION], containing 1 mM THP, 0.25 mM PLP and 10% glycerol. To isolate soluble leaf proteins, pea or barley leaves were pulverized in liquid N2, and the material was suspended in 1.25 ml of buffer B (200 mM potassium phosphate, pH 7.5, 10 mM 2-mercaptoethanol, 1 mM EDTA, 1 mM PMSF and 10% glycerol) per 0.5 g of leaf material. Leaf protein extracts were mixed briefly by stirring, mixtures were cleared by centrifugation at 20800 g for 30 min at 4 °C, and then the supernatant was desalted with a PD-10 column equilibrated with buffer B without PMSF. Chloroplasts of pea or barley were isolated by centrifugation on Percoll density gradients using published procedures [CITATION–CITATION]. Isolated chloroplasts were resuspended in buffer B and broken by four cycles of freezing and thawing. Chloroplast protein extracts were cleared by centrifugation at 20800 g for 20 min at 4 °C, followed by desalting supernatants with Zeba Desalt spin columns (Pierce Biotechnology) equilibrated with buffer B without PMSF. The plastid marker glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase and the mitochondrial marker fumarase were assayed for activity as described previously [CITATION]. MTHFR (5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase) was assayed to evaluate contamination of isolated chloroplasts with the cytosol [CITATION]. MTHFR activity was assayed as described previously [CITATION], but using unlabelled assay components and HPLC with fluorescence detection. Assay mixtures (20 μl final volume) were incubated at 30 °C for 20 min. Assay blanks had the enzyme added after the incubation. The reactions were stopped by the addition of 1 M 2-mercaptoethanol (10 μl), followed by boiling reaction mixtures for 4 min; denatured proteins were pelleted by centrifugation at 20800 g for 30 min at 4 °C. Reaction products were separated isocratically on a Waters XTerra C18 column (4.6 mm×100 mm, 5 μm particle diameter), and monitored with 280 nm excitation and 359 nm emission wavelengths. The mobile phase contained 27 mM phosphoric acid and 7% methanol. The length of separation was 6 min. Authentic 5-CH3-H4PteGlu1 was used as a standard for quantification. Leaf or chloroplast protein extracts were frozen in liquid N2 and stored at −80 °C until use. Protein concentrations were determined using the Bradford assay [CITATION] with BSA as the standard. The full-length AtSHMT3-coding sequence was amplified with primers 5′-AAAAAGCAGGCTATGCAAGCTTGTTGTGGTGG-3′ (AtSHMT3 GFPF) and 5′-AGAAAGCTGGGTGAACGCCAGGAATGGGAAA-3′ (AtSHMT3 GFPR), and then reamplified with the attB adapter primer pair (Invitrogen). Resulting PCR fragments were purified with Wizard PCR columns, and then inserted into the pDNOR 221 vector (Invitrogen) using BP recombination. The cloned sequences were then fused to the N-terminus of the EGFP sequence segment in the p2GWF7 destination vector using LR recombination. Leaf protoplasts were isolated from 4-week-old A. thaliana plants, and transformed with the EGFP-containing vectors following the procedure described in [CITATION]. Fluorescence was monitored using an LSM 510 confocal laser-scanning microscope (Carl Zeiss MicroImaging). EGFP fluorescence was monitored with 488 nm excitation and 505–530 nm emission wavelengths, and chlorophyll fluorescence was monitored with 488 nm excitation and >650 nm emission. PteGlu2-8 were reduced to H4PteGlu2-8 with KBH4 [CITATION]. The resulting H4PteGlu2-8 were purified on a Mono Q 5/50 GL column; bound folates were eluted with a linear gradient of 0.13–2.0 M sodium acetate (pH 6.9) plus 0.2 M 2-mercaptoethanol over 20 column volumes as described previously [CITATION]. For use in enzyme activity assays, H4PteGlu2-8 were purified further by solid-phase extraction on a Chromabond C18 Hydra column (Macherey-Nagel). The column was washed with pure methanol and water before loading the samples; H4PteGlu2-8 were eluted with 10 mM THP. Fractions containing H4PteGlu2-8 were pooled, frozen in liquid N2 and then stored at −80 °C until use. H4PteGlu2-8 concentrations were determined spectrophotometrically at A298 [CITATION]. SHMT activity was measured using an HPLC-based fluorimetric assay as described previously [CITATION]. Ches/Hepes/citric acid buffer (pH 8.5) replaced Tris/HCl in the assay mixture, as preliminary results indicated artefacts when assaying in Tris/HCl. Measurements were made using an Alliance 2695 separations module equipped with a 2675 fluorescence detector (Waters). Substrates were saturating, and product formation was proportional to time and enzyme concentration. Less than 10% of the substrates was typically consumed. Product formation was determined after subtraction of a blank, wherein serine was added after incubation. Reaction products were separated by reversed-phase chromatography on a Waters XTerra C18 column (4.6 mm×100 mm, 5 μm particle size), and were measured by fluorescence detection with 280 nm excitation and 359 nm emission wavelengths. The mobile phase contained 27 mM phosphoric acid and 7, 9 or 10% methanol when substrates were H4PteGlu1-4, H4PteGlu5 or H4PteGlu6-8 respectively and the inhibitors were omitted; the length of the isocratic separation varied (6–15 min). Reaction products were separated isocratically when measuring inhibition with 5-CH3-H4PteGlu1&5. The mobile phase contained 27 mM phosphoric acid and 10% methanol or 4% acetonitrile for the assays with added 5-CH3-H4PteGlu1 or 5-CH3-H4PteGlu5 respectively. The length of separation was 9 min for 5-CH3-H4PteGlu1 and 20 min for 5-CH3-H4PteGlu5. Reaction products were separated under gradient conditions when measuring inhibition with 5-HCO-H4PteGlu1&5. The mobile phase contained 27 mM phosphoric acid and varied methanol content. For the assays with added 5-HCO-H4PteGlu1, methanol was held at 11% for 10 min, increased to 20% over 2 min and then decreased to 11% for 2 min. For the assays with added 5-HCO-H4PteGlu5, methanol was held at 9% for 13 min, increased to 20% over 2 min and then decreased to 9% for 2 min. The 5-CH3-H4PteGlu1 standard was produced by reducing authentic 5,10-CH2-H4PteGlu1 using NaBH4 under conditions identical with those used for the assay products [CITATION]. 5,10-CH2-H4PteGlu2-8 are commercially unavailable. Thus these assay products were quantified by first comparing the peak areas associated with the reduced products with that of the 5-CH3-H4PteGlu1 standard, and then multiplying those values by the ratio of the respective peak areas for 5-CH3-H4PteGlu2-5 and 5-CH3-H4PteGlu1. 5-CH3-H4PteGlu6-8 are commercially unavailable. Thus the 5-CH3-H4PteGlu6-8/5-CH3-H4PteGlu1 ratios were assumed to be 1 as deduced from the experimental data available for 5-CH3-H4PteGlu4&5. The concentrations of H4PteGlun, 5-CH3-H4PteGlun and 5,10-CH2-H4PteGlu1 were determined spectrophotometrically using published molar absorption coefficients [CITATION]. Initial reaction rates were measured at pH 8.5 with various H4PteGlun concentrations and a constant serine concentration. To measure inhibition with 5-CH3-H4PteGlu1&5 or 5-HCO-H4PteGlu1&5, H4PteGlu6 was used as the substrate. Serine (5 mM) and H4PteGlu6 (2 and 4 μM) concentrations were held constant while the inhibitor concentrations were varied. Apparent values for the kinetic parameters (Km, Ki, Vmax) were found by fitting measured initial reaction rates against substrate or substrate and inhibitor concentrations to suitable enzyme inhibition models in the Enzyme Kinetics Module 1.2 for SigmaPlot 9.0.1. The coefficient of determination, R2, helped single out the inhibition model (and derived parameters) that best fit one set of measurements. The standard error for kcat/Km and Ki/Km was calculated by error propagation [CITATION]. Gene expression was analysed in silico using the Meta Analyzer tool of the GENEVESTIGATOR software package (http://www.genevestigator.ethz.ch), and the publicly available Affymetrix microarray data for A. thaliana [CITATION].
