!~ABS~! Two glucanotransferases, disproportionating enzyme 1 (StDPE1) and disproportionating enzyme 2 (StDPE2), were repressed using RNA interference technology in potato, leading to plants repressed in either isoform individually, or both simultaneously. This is the first detailed report of their combined repression. Plants lacking StDPE1 accumulated slightly more starch in their leaves than control plants and high levels of maltotriose, while those lacking StDPE2 contained maltose and large amounts of starch. Plants repressed in both isoforms accumulated similar amounts of starch to those lacking StDPE2. In addition, they contained a range of malto-oligosaccharides from maltose to maltoheptaose. Plants repressed in both isoforms had chlorotic leaves and did not grow as well as either the controls or lines where only one of the isoforms was repressed. Examination of photosynthetic parameters suggested that this was most likely due to a decrease in carbon assimilation. The subcellular localisation of StDPE2 was re-addressed in parallel with DPE2 from Arabidopsis thaliana by transient expression of yellow fluorescent protein fusions in tobacco. No translocation to the chloroplasts was observed for any of the fusion proteins, supporting a cytosolic role of the StDPE2 enzyme in leaf starch metabolism, as has been observed for Arabidopsis DPE2. It is concluded that StDPE1 and StDPE2 have individual essential roles in starch metabolism in potato and consequently repression of these disables regulation of leaf malto-oligosaccharides, starch content and photosynthetic activity and thereby plant growth possibly by a negative feedback mechanism.
!~RES~! Potato plants repressed both in StDPE1 and in StDPE2 were produced by introducing an RNAi construct designed to repress StDPE1, into potato lines repressed in StDPE2 (Lloyd et al. CITATION). In addition, plants lacking only StDPE1 were produced utilising the same construct. Lines were selected based on reduction of StDPE1 activity in crude leaf extracts using maltotriose as a substrate. A total of four lines were selected, where both StDPE1 and StDPE2 were repressed, and named StDPE1/StDPE2 lines 1 to 4. The background of lines 1 and 2 is the StDPE2-8 line while 3 and 4 are in the StDPE2-28 background (Lloyd et al. CITATION). In these lines the maximal reduction obtained in StDPE1 activity was, at most, down to 10% of the activity in the respective parental lines (Table 1). Two lines exclusively down-regulated in StDPE1 activity were also selected and named StDPE1-1 and 2. Only 1% of the parental wild-type StDPE1 activity was measured in these lines (Table 1).[[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] Immunoblot analysis was used to check if the transformation event had any effect on the amount of StDPE2 protein (Fig. 1). All StDPE2 RNAi lines lacked the 100 kDa band corresponding to StDPE2 in leaves (Fig. 1, lanes 4–9), while the StDPE1 RNAi lines had none or very small reductions (0–10%) of StDPE2 protein (Fig. 1, lanes 2 and 3) compared with the untransformed control (Fig. 1, lane 1). [[FIGURE]]  As a check for pleiotropic effects related to enzyme activities involved in starch degradation, the activities of α- and β-amylases as well as starch phosphorylase were determined (Table 1). The activity of β-amylase was unchanged in all lines, whereas α-amylase activity was increased in lines lacking either StDPE1 or StDPE2, but not those where both enzymes were repressed. The total starch phosphorylase activity was significantly increased in some of the transgenic lines, but not consistently so. In addition, activity gels stained for starch phosphorylase activity did not demonstrate consistent alterations in activities of specific isoforms in the transgenic lines (Fig. 2). [[FIGURE]]  The contents of soluble sugars, MOS and starch were measured in leaves of 1- and 3-month-old plants during a day/night cycle, with leaf samples taken every 4 h (Fig. 3). For clarity only one representative of each transformation type is shown, but similar results were obtained for all genotypically identical lines. [[FIGURE]]  Like the wild-type control, all 1-month-old plants of the repression lines demonstrated a pattern of starch accumulation during the light, followed by a subsequent degradation in the dark (Fig. 3a). The plants lacking StDPE2 had the highest accumulation of starch during the day, approximately 20 nmol glucose equivalents mm−2. Plants repressed both in StDPE1 and in StDPE2 had starch contents with maximum at 15 nmol glucose equivalents mm−2 compared to 10–15 nmol glucose equivalents mm−2 in the wild type and StDPE1 single repression line. At the onset of the day the amount of starch was twofold higher in the lines, where both enzymes were repressed in comparison with wild type and the StDPE1 single repression line (Fig. 3a). During the light period lines lacking both StDPE1 and StDPE2 accumulated more starch than the wild type and, during the dark period, starch was degraded at a lower rate than in the wild type and the StDPE1 single repression line. Notably, the starch content in the StDPE2 single repression line was similar to the double repression line and even higher in the dark (Fig. 3a). A similar pattern was found in the 3-month-old plants and, at this stage, the diurnal cycle of starch accumulation and degradation was disrupted in all transgenic lines. Starch content was around three times higher in the lines repressed in both StDPE1 and StDPE2 compared to wild type (Fig. 3b). The StDPE1 single repression line contained roughly twice as much starch as the wild type. Again, the StDPE2 single repression line had the highest starch content, approximately four times higher than wild type (Fig. 3b). MOS contents were determined from the supernatants of the above-mentioned leaf extracts. At the beginning of the light period the plants repressed in both isoforms and the StDPE2 single repression lines contained around fourfold higher levels of MOS when compared to wild type and the StDPE1 single repression lines (Fig. 3c). During the light period the MOS contents in the double repression lines were comparable to wild type and the StDPE1 single repression line. The MOS content in the StDPE2 single repression lines was slightly higher than in the other lines during the light period. The largest differences between the lines were again found in 3-month-old plants (Fig. 3d). In lines, where both enzymes were repressed the MOS content was significantly different from the other lines, being about tenfold higher than wild type and fivefold higher than the plants lacking only one of the enzymes. In addition, the types of MOS that accumulated in the transgenic lines were examined and it was found that plants lacking StDPE1 accumulated a series of MOS, with maltotriose being the smallest, while plants lacking StDPE2 only accumulated maltose. The double repression lines accumulated various MOS from maltose to maltoheptaose, with maltose and maltotriose being the most prevalent (Fig. 4). [[FIGURE]]  The content of glucose, fructose and sucrose were determined in all leaf samples of the time course analysis (Fig. 3e–j). In 1-month-old plants the glucose and fructose contents were increased in all repression lines compared to wild type, especially during the light period (Fig. 3e, g). However, the double repression lines had a constantly higher content of both hexoses during the night when that of both single repression lines dropped to wild-type levels. The sucrose content in the 1-month-old double repression lines was similar to wild type, whereas the content in the single repression lines was up to twofold higher during the light period (Fig. 3i). In 3-month-old plants, higher levels of hexoses in the double repression lines were evident when compared to young plants (Fig. 3f, h). During the day the glucose levels increased to 3.5 nmol mm−2 compared to the wild type 0.5 nmol mm−2 (Fig. 3f) and fructose levels were 1.5 nmol mm−2 compared to 0.5 nmol mm−2 (Fig. 3h). The glucose and fructose content in the single repression lines were slightly higher than wild type. The sucrose content was lower in the double repression lines compared to all other lines (Fig. 3j). During the entire growth period it was noted that only lines repressed both in StDPE1 and in StDPE2 were retarded in growth (Fig. 5). Furthermore, these plants were more chlorotic than all other lines, due to a significantly lower total amount of chlorophyll (chl) a and b (Table 2). The chl a/b ratio in the double repression lines was similar to wild type (data not shown). The lower amount of chlorophyll was accompanied by a reduction in photosystem I (PSI) and in particular photosystem II (PSII) complexes in the leaf. This was observed by immuno-quantification from a blot where leaf extracts were loaded in equal amounts according to chlorophyll content (Fig. 6) or fresh weight (Table 2). This down-regulation of PSI and PSII was also evident in immunoblots from leaves of 2- and 3-month-old plants (data not shown). In contrast, both PSI and PSII protein levels in lines repressed in either StDPE1 or StDPE2 appeared higher than in wild type, though this was not supported by a higher chlorophyll level (Table 2). [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]] [[FIGURE]]  [[TABLE]] This observation prompted an investigation of whether the potato transformants exhibiting reduced levels of StDPEs had altered photosynthetic activity. Comparison of the reduction state of QA (1-qP), non-photochemical quenching (NPQ) and the quantum yield of PSII photochemistry (ϕPSII) in 1-, 2- and 3-month-old plants were studied by chlorophyll a fluorescence measurements. Data from 1-month-old plants are presented in Table 3. None of the fluorescence data showed significant differences between transgenic lines and wild-type controls. Similar observations were made in 2- and 3-month-old plants (data not shown). As a significant reduction of PSII complexes in the leaves of the double repression lines was observed, the quantum yield of PSII photochemistry (F v/F m) was measured in the lines analysed in Fig. 6 by another approach using a portable fluorometer (Table 3). Only one of the double repression lines showed a significant reduction in PSII quantum yield. Finally, the double repression lines had a significantly lower CO2 assimilation rate (Table 3).[[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] It was examined whether the alteration in leaf contents of free sugars observed in the double repression lines affected the tuber yield of the plants. Tubers were harvested and weighed after 4 months of growth in pots of five individual plants. Three out of the four lines where both StDPE1 and StDPE2 were repressed demonstrated significantly reduced yield in comparison with both wild type and lines where only one of the enzymes were repressed (Table 4). Similar results were obtained with a second batch of plants (data not shown).[[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] The subcellular localisation of StDPE2 was investigated in parallel with AtDPE2 by generating C-terminally truncated versions of 387 aa and 398 aa from StDPE2 and AtDPE2, respectively, based on alignment of the two sequences. The truncated constructs as well as the full-length coding regions (948 aa and 995 aa for StDPE2 and AtDPE2, respectively) were fused to yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) at the C-terminal end and analysed by transient expression in tobacco leaf mesophyll cells and confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM). The two constructs containing the full-length StDPE2 and AtDPE2 did not reveal any visible fluorescence. The truncated versions were both clearly localised outside the chloroplasts (Fig. 7). YFP alone and an α-glucan, water dikinase from Arabidopsis (Glaring et al. CITATION) were used as controls for cytosolic and chloroplastic localisation, respectively (data not shown). To verify that the location was not due to proteolytic breakdown of the fusion proteins, immunoblotting was performed using a green fluorescent protein antibody. Fusion proteins of both StDPE2 and AtDPE2 showed bands of the correct size with little or no degradation visible, suggesting that the observed cytosolic localisation of the fusion proteins was not due to loss of the targeting signal (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! A potato cDNA coding for StDPE1 was identified previously (Takaha et al. CITATION; Lloyd et al. CITATION). Two primers were used (Forward: 5′ GGGGACAAGTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTCTCGAGAACTTTCGC 3′; Reverse: 5′ GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTTATCCTAAATTCATC 3′) to amplify a fragment of the cDNA flanked by attB1 and attB2 sites. The PCR product was recombined into the pHellsgate2 vector (Wesley et al. CITATION) using BP clonase (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Agrobacterium-mediated plant transformation was used to transform this construct into either wild-type potato (Solanum tuberosum L.) cv Desiree (obtained from Saatzucht Fritz Lange, Bad Schwartau, Germany), or two lines which had already been transformed with a construct designed to repress StDPE2 (Lines #8 and #28; Lloyd et al. CITATION). All the transgenic lines can be obtained from Andreas Blennow now, email: abl@life.ku.dk. Transformants in wild type were selected on media containing kanamycin, while those previously transformed with the construct repressing StDPE2 were selected on both hygromycin and kanamycin. As much as 40 transformed plants of each line were transferred to soil and grown in a greenhouse. Four weeks after transfer, leaf samples were taken, protein extracts made, and an assay specific for DPE1 (Takaha et al. CITATION) was used to identify transformants with repressed expression of StDPE1. Plants were transferred from tissue culture to soil and batches were grown in a greenhouse with a 16-h light/8-h dark regime, 18°C day, 15°C night, 220 μmol photons m−2 s−1 in pots of 25 cm in diameter containing a mixture of 10:1 (v/v) peat:vermiculite. Two batches were also grown in a growth chamber with the above-mentioned parameters. Protein extracts were made from potato leaves and separated by SDS-PAGE before being blotted onto membranes. The production of the anti-StDPE2 antibody used has been described by Lloyd et al. (CITATION). To quantify photosystem I and II, crude protein from 200 mg potato leaves were extracted in 100 mM Tris–HCL (pH 8.0), 50 mM EDTA, 0.25 M NaCl, 1 mM DTT and 0.75% (w/v) SDS, incubated at 68°C for 10 min followed by centrifugation at 15,000g for 10 min at room temperature. Chlorophyll in the supernatants was measured and protein extract corresponding to 5 μg chlorophyll was loaded in each lane and separated by SDS-PAGE before being blotted onto membranes. A PSI antibody produced in our lab was used to quantify the amount of the PSI-F protein (18 kDa), and a PsbA antibody (Agrisera, Vännäs, Sweden) enabled quantification of the D1 protein of PSII (39 kDa). Both the amount of PSI-F and PsbA have been found to correlate to the total amount of PSI and PSII complexes (Soitamo et al. CITATION; Haldrup et al. CITATION). Starch, sugars and MOS were isolated from leaves of potato plants by a combination of the methods described by Chia et al. (CITATION) and Critchley et al. (CITATION). Every fourth hour during a diurnal cycle, 70 mm2 leaf disc samples were taken with a cork borer. Only source leaves of comparable size and age were used for the harvest and the same leaves were re-sampled from two plants of each line. A total of 16 discs were harvested per line per time point. The frozen leaf discs were separately homogenised at 30 Hz for 30 s using steel pearls in a Rotanta 460 (Hettich, Beverly, MA, USA). After homogenisation, 200 μl 0.7 M perchloric acid was added. The samples were incubated at 4°C for 30 min and centrifuged at 3,890g for 3 min at 4°C. Part of the supernatant (75 μl) was adjusted to pH 7 and the content of sugars was determined by the method of Nielsen et al. (CITATION). The remaining supernatant (50 μl) was analysed for MOS by adding 30 μl 2 M KOH, 0.4 M Mes pH 5.6, 0.4 M KCl. The precipitated potassium perchlorate was pelleted at 3,890g for 10 min at 4°C and 50 μl of the supernatant was added to 66 μl 0.1 M Mes pH 5.6, 0.75 U β-fructosidase, 0.1 U glucose oxidase, 65 U catalase (all from Roche, Mannheim, Germany) and incubated at 32°C for 2 h to remove free sugars. The samples were incubated at 70°C for 40 min before 50 μl was added to 50 μl of 50 mM sodium acetate (pH 5.6) containing 0.25 U maltase (Megazyme, Wicklow, Ireland) and 2 U amyloglucosidase (Fluka, Buchs, Switzerland) (Critchley et al. CITATION; Chia et al. CITATION). This was incubated at 37°C for 2 h. Malto-oligosaccharides were determined as glucose equivalents as described for sugars. Starch was determined by the method of Müller-Röber et al. (CITATION). Malto-oligosaccharides were separated and detected by high-performance anion-exchange chromatography with pulsed amperometric detection (HPAEC-PAD) as described by Blennow et al. (CITATION). Aliquots of the above-mentioned MOS samples free of sugars were adjusted to pH 7 and 30 μl was injected on a PA100 column. Activity gels for starch phosphorylase were run according to Nielsen et al. (CITATION). A 200 mg leaf tissue was extracted in 400 μl 0.1 M Hepes–KOH pH 7.6, 20 mM MgCl2, 2 mM CaCl2, 3% (w/v) PEG 8000, 5 mM DTT, 2% (w/v) PVPP. After centrifugation at 10,000g for 5 min at 4°C, 60 μl of the supernatant was mixed with 20 μl of 50% (w/v) glycerol, 1% (w/v) bromophenol blue and the enzymes were separated by PAGE. Separating gels contained 7.5% polyacrylamide (30:0.8 acrylamide:bisacrylamide), 0.5% potato amylopectin (both from Sigma-Aldrich, Brøndby, Denmark) and 360 mM Tris–HCl (pH 8.8). The gels were run for 2–2.5 h at a constant current of 30 mA (for two gels), washed twice in water and incubated in 0.1 M Mes/KOH pH 6.5, 5 mM DTT for 30 min and then overnight in 0.1 M Mes/KOH pH 6.5, 0.1% (w/v) soluble starch, 25 mM glucose-1-phosphate (both from Sigma-Aldrich), 10 mM DTT followed by two washes in water for 10 min. The gels were stained with Lugol solution (2.6% (w/v) KI and 0.26% (w/v) I2 diluted 1,000 times with 1 M HCl). Protein extracts from leaf tissues were prepared by homogenisation of 200 mg frozen material in 50 mM Hepes–KOH, pH 7.5, 5 mM MgCl2, 2 mM EDTA, 2 mM DTT, 0.5 mM PMSF and 8.7% (v/v) glycerol. The samples were centrifuged for 10 min at 4°C and 20,000g and the supernatant was immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at −80°C. The protein content was determined by the method described by Bradford (CITATION). The activity of α-amylase and β-amylase was determined using the assay described by Scheidig et al. (CITATION), where the degradation of malto-oligosaccharides linked to a p-nitrophenyl group by a glucosidic bond at the reducing end was monitored by assay kits (Megazyme). Plant extract (50 μl) was mixed with 225 μl 100 mM Mes–KOH, pH 6.2, 1 mM EDTA and 0.1% (v/v) β-mercaptoethanol. The assays were started by addition of 25 μl of the substrate and coupling solution and stopped after 10 min at 40°C by adding 2.5 volumes of 1% (w/v) Trizma base (Sigma-Aldrich). The activity, determined as liberated p-nitrophenolate, was measured spectrophotometrically at 410 nm. Starch phosphorylase activity was determined according to Zeeman et al. (CITATION). To 275 μl buffer containing 20 mM MOPS, pH 7.0, 20 mM Na2HPO4/KH2PO4, 10 mM MgCl2, 3.4 mM NAD, 0.2 U phosphoglucomutase, 0.2 U glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (from Leuconostoc mesenteroides) and 3.4 μM glucose-1,6-bisphosphate was added 25 μl protein extract. After incubation at 30°C for 5 min, 25 μl buffer containing 0.5 mg potato amylopectin (Sigma-Aldrich) was added to initiate the phosphorolytic reaction (Steup CITATION). DPE1 activity was determined according to Takaha et al. (CITATION). A total of 25 μl protein extract was added to 225 μl buffer containing 22.5 mM MOPS, pH 6.8, 27 mM maltotriose. Assays were stopped after 10 min by boiling for 2 min and the glucose content was determined. Chlorophyll a (Chl a) and b (Chl b) was extracted by incubation of leaf pieces of 2–5 cm2 (the exact weight was noted) in 5 ml 96% EtOH at 95°C and determined after the leaves were completely devoid of pigments. Chl a and Chl b was then measured at wavelengths of 648.6 and 664.2 nm by the method of Lichtenthaler (CITATION). For each line, three leaf pieces were harvested and pigment concentration was determined as an average of three separate measurements. Determination of conventional fluorescence parameters were performed with a PAM 101-103 fluorometer (Walz, Effeltrich, Germany) using a standard setup (Haldrup et al. CITATION) and the quenching coefficients were determined essentially as described by Quick and Stitt (CITATION). Nonphotochemical quenching (NPQ) was calculated as: (F m/F m′)/F m′, the estimated reduction state of QA (1-qP) as: (F s − F o′)/(F m′ − Fo′) and the quantum yield of PSII photochemistry (ϕPSII) as: (F m′ − F s)/F m′). The abbreviations F m, F o and F s describe the fluorescence yield at fluorescence maximum, fluorescence minimum and at steady state, respectively. A prime (′) indicates that the parameter is obtained from light-adapted samples, whereas all other parameters are from dark-adapted leaves. Four replicas of each plant were used for fluorescence measurements and the mean values of two independently grown plant batches were obtained. ϕPSII was also measured by a portable fluorimeter (Handy plant efficiency analyser, Hansatech Instruments Ltd., King’s Lynn Norfolk, UK) on plants that had been dark-adapted for 25 min (referred to as F v/F m in the results to be able to distinguish quantum yields from the two fluorimeters; F v = F m − Fo). Five young leaves from two plants per line were analysed. CO2 assimilation was analysed by infrared gas analysis using a CO2 saturated chamber (CIRAS-1, PP systems, Hertfordshire, UK) according to manufacturer descriptions. Five leaves from two plants per line were analysed. Care was taken only to measure mature source leaves of approximately the same size and age (Wolf CITATION), similar to the material used for metabolite measurements. All experiments were performed on two independently grown batches of plants. For tobacco transient expression, the full-length ORFs as well as fragments corresponding to the N-terminal 398 aa and 387 aa of AtDPE2 and StDPE2, respectively, were PCR amplified using uracil-containing primers (AtDPE2-F: 5′ GGCTTAAUATGAATCTAGGATCTCTTTCGTTG 3′, AtDPE2-R(398aa): 5′ GGTTTAAUCCTGAGTTCAAAGTCTGGTCTTTCTC 3′, AtDPE2-R(FL): 5′ GGTTTAAUCCTCGGTTTGGCTTAGTCGAGC 3′, StDPE2-F: 5′ GGCTTAAUATGGTGAATTCGGGGTTGAAGTC 3′, StDPE2-R(387aa): 5′ GGTTTAAUCCTGAGTTTAGTATGGTCTCCTTCTC 3′, StDPE2-R(FL): 5′ GGTTTAAUCCTTTGTTGGAGAGTCCATATT 3′) and cloned into the vector pPS48uYFP using an improved USER™ (uracil-specific excision reagent, New England Biolabs, Hitchin, Herts., UK) cloning procedure (Nour-Eldin et al. CITATION). Constructs were transformed into Agrobacterium and transiently expressed by infiltration in Nicotiana benthamiana Domin (seeds obtained from the National Tobacco Germplasm Collection, University of North Carolina, NC, USA; http://www.ars-grin.gov) as described by Voinnet et al. (CITATION). Constructs were analysed by a confocal laser scanning microscope (TCS SP2; Leica Microsystems, Wetzlar, Germany) equipped with a 20X/0.70 or 63X/1.20 PL APO water immersion objective. A 488 nm laser line was used for excitation and emission was detected between 520 and 550 nm for YFP fluorescence, and 600 and 750 nm for chlorophyll autofluorescence.
