!~ABS~! The highly resistant biopolymer, sporopollenin, gives the outer wall (exine) of spores and pollen grains their unparalleled strength, shielding these structures from terrestrial stresses. Despite a limited understanding of the composition of sporopollenin, it appears that the synthesis of sporopollenin occurs in the tapetum and requires the transport of one or more sporopollenin constituents to the surface of developing microspores. Here, we describe ABCG26, a member of the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter superfamily, which is required for pollen exine formation in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). abcg26 mutants are severely reduced in fertility, with most siliques failing to produce seeds by self-fertilization and mature anthers failing to release pollen. Transmission electron microscopy analyses revealed an absence of an exine wall on abcg26-1 mutant microspores. Phenotypic abnormalities in pollen wall formation were first apparent in early uninucleate microspores as a lack of exine formation and sporopollenin deposition. Additionally, the highest levels of ABCG26 mRNA were in the tapetum, during early pollen wall formation, sporopollenin biosynthesis, and sporopollenin deposition. Accumulations resembling the trilamellar lipidic coils in the abcg11 and abcg12 mutants defective in cuticular wax export were observed in the anther locules of abcg26 mutants. A yellow fluorescent protein-ABCG26 protein was localized to the endoplasmic reticulum and plasma membrane. Our results show that ABCG26 plays a critical role in exine formation and pollen development and are consistent with a model by which ABCG26 transports sporopollenin precursors across the tapetum plasma membrane into the locule for polymerization on developing microspore walls.
!~RES~! To test the hypothesis that ABC transporters are required for the export of sporopollenin precursors or other constituents of the exine from the tapetum to developing microspores, it was necessary to identify candidate ABC transporters out of the over 120 annotated ABC transporter genes in the Arabidopsis genome (CITATION). Since ACOS5 is preferentially expressed in the tapetum and encodes an acyl-CoA synthetase required for sporopollenin biosynthesis (CITATION), this gene was used for coexpression analysis to identify potential Arabidopsis transporters on the PRIMe database (prime.psc.riken.jp/?action=coexpression_index). The Arabidopsis ABCG26 (formerly WBC27) gene At3g13220 shows a high coefficient of coexpression in the tissue and development version 1 data set (r2 = 0.95), along with several other genes involved in sporopollenin biosynthesis (CITATION). ABCG26 encodes a predicted half-size ABC transporter in the G subfamily, formerly called the White-Brown Complex subfamily. The highly conserved protein architecture of ABCG26 is typical of this subfamily, where dimerization of two half-transporters produces a functional transport unit with two transmembrane domains and two ABC domains (CITATION; CITATION). To test a role for ABCG26 in male fertility and pollen development, three ABCG26 T-DNA insertion lines (SALK_062317, SAIL_318_B09, and SAIL_885_F06, named abcg26-1, abcg26-2, and abcg26-3, respectively) were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (CITATION). PCR genotyping identified plants homozygous for each ABCG26 T-DNA insertion, and sequencing confirmed insertion in the fifth exon (abcg26-1) or the 5′ untranslated region (abcg26-2, abcg26-3) of ABCG26 (Fig. 1A). Plants homozygous for each of the mutant alleles exhibited highly similar mutant phenotypes of severe impairment in male fertility (Supplemental Fig. S1), and the abcg26-1 mutant was used for further experiments. [[FIGURE]] Reverse transcription (RT)-PCR analysis revealed a strong reduction of ABCG26 mRNA in the abcg26-1 mutant relative to the wild type, suggesting that abcg26-1 is a loss-of-function allele of ABCG26 (Fig. 1B). In homozygous abcg26-1 mutant plants, most siliques failed to mature and produce seeds (Fig. 1C), and most abcg26-1 anthers appeared brown, dry, and lacked any obvious pollen grains (Fig. 1E). However, occasional abcg26-1 anthers with bulbous yellow surfaces consistent with pollen that was not shed were identified, and occasional fully fertile siliques were observed, suggesting a low rate of fertile pollen formation. Wild-type pollen applied to homozygous abcg26-1 stigmas on flowers with brown, dry anthers produced fertile progeny, demonstrating normal female fertility and strong male sterility of abcg26-1. No other morphological differences between mature wild-type and abcg26-1 plants were observed, except that abcg26-1 mutant plants flowered for a longer time and grew taller (50 ± 7 cm at maturity [mean ± sd; n = 12 plants] versus 29 ± 2 cm at maturity for the wild type [n = 12 plants]; Fig. 1C). Growth under elevated humidity did not recover fertility in abcg26-1 plants. To confirm that the observed male-sterile phenotype is caused by the abcg26-1 T-DNA insertion mutation, we cloned ABCG26 cDNA from developing flower buds in order to complement the abcg26-1 mutant with a wild-type copy of ABCG26. However, during the isolation of the expected annotated ABCG26 cDNA, a second cDNA transcript, ABCG26.2 (At3g13220.2), was found, and sequencing revealed that it corresponded to an alternatively spliced ABCG26 variant resulting from the retention of intron 7 in the transcript (Fig. 2A). The retention of intron 7, which encodes multiple in-frame stop codons, is predicted to produce a truncated protein if it were translated. [[FIGURE]] Constructs containing either the major or minor splice variant of ABCG26 cDNA driven by the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter were generated and transformed into the homozygous abcg26-1 mutant line. The presence of each construct, as well as the T-DNA insertion in the T1 progeny of homozygous abcg26-1 plants, was confirmed by PCR. Figure 3 shows the fertility phenotypes of T1 progeny relative to those of wild-type ecotype Columbia (Col-0) and abcg26-1 plants, assayed by silique development and seed set. Although occasional fertile siliques were observed in abcg26-1 mutant plants, very few fully developed siliques were observed, and clear fertility differences were observed between multiple mutant and wild-type individuals (85% of siliques on wild-type plants were classified as large, indicative of full fertility, whereas 1% of siliques on abcg26-1 plants were large; Fig. 3). When assayed in a similar manner, T1 progeny from multiple lines expressing cDNA for the major transcript (ABCG26.1) restored wild-type fertility levels to the abcg26-1 mutant line, with numerous fully developed siliques and normal seed set (Fig. 3). Wild-type fertility levels were also restored in multiple lines expressing cDNA for the minor transcript (ABCG26.2), which contains the retained intron. This could suggest that a truncated protein was functional, surprising given the high conservation of ABC transporter protein architecture. Alternatively, when the transcript with the retained intron was expressed, functional protein could have been produced by splicing out of the retained intron with its premature stop codon. RT-PCR was performed to assess whether the lines complemented with ABC26.2 contained the full-length or alternative transcripts. ABCG26.1 transcript was detectable in such lines (Supplemental Fig. S2), suggesting that complementation by the ABCG26.2 construct was due to the accumulation of ABCG26.1 mRNA and ABCG26.1 protein rather than by truncated ABCG26.2 protein. [[FIGURE]] To evaluate the expression pattern of ABCG26, we queried the Genevestigator Arabidopsis expression database (CITATION). Results suggested expression of ABCG26 specifically in immature flower buds, and ABCG26 expression was absent from apetala3 and agamous mutants that lack stamens, suggesting a stamen-specific expression pattern. To confirm the flower-specific expression pattern of ABCG26, the expression levels of both ABCG26 splice variants were tested in various Arabidopsis organs by quantitative RT-PCR (Fig. 2B). These results revealed a highly flower-preferred expression pattern for both ABCG26 splice variants, with little or no transcripts detected in other organs. ABCG26.1 is the major transcript and accumulates approximately 3-fold higher relative to ABCG26.2. To determine whether ABCG26 is expressed in sporophytic or gametophytic tissues, we used in situ hybridization. Figure 4 shows that ABCG26 transcripts were transiently localized to tapetum cells in developing anthers. Tapetum-localized expression was first observed at stage 6 (CITATION), when microspore mother cells became apparent in locules. Maximum expression was observed at stages 7 and 8, corresponding to tetrad formation and free microspore release, respectively, and expression declined at stages 9 and 10 and disappeared by stage 11 in conjunction with tapetum degeneration. Relative to the sense RNA hybridization controls (shown for stages 8 and 11; Fig. 4), some ABCG26 signal also appeared in developing microspores. The timing of tapetum-localized ABCG26 expression is similar to that of ACOS5, which encodes a key enzyme in sporopollenin biosynthesis, and coincides with the onset of exine formation and sporopollenin biosynthesis (CITATION), suggesting that ABCG26 could be involved in this process. [[FIGURE]] To identify the stage at which pollen development is affected in the abcg26-1 mutant, we used light microscopy to compare anther and microspore development in wild-type (Col-0) and abcg26-1 flower buds using the stages defined by CITATION; Fig. 5). In all early stages, including the completion of meiosis in stage 7, both wild-type and abcg26-1 microspore tetrads were encased by callose and appeared normal (Fig. 5, A and B). However, by stage 9, characterized by the release of free microspores and formation of the exine wall, abcg26-1 anthers differed significantly from the wild type. Figure 5D shows that free microspores in abcg26-1 exhibited signs of incipient degeneration. In stages 10 to 11, the degeneration of the tapetum and formation of tricellular mature pollen proceeded in wild-type anthers (Fig. 5E), while pollen grains in the abcg26-1 mutant generally lacked cytoplasm and exhibited misshapen morphologies (Fig. 5F). By stage 12, all abcg26-1 mutant anthers observed in multiple sections were devoid of pollen grains, while abundant mature pollen was evident in wild-type anthers (Fig. 5, G and H). Despite impaired microspore development in abcg26-1, no additional changes in anther morphology were observed in the tapetum or integuments, and growth and expansion proceeded as in wild-type plants. These data suggest that impaired microspore development occurs in the abcg26-1 mutant at the developmental stage, when sporopollenin deposition and exine formation normally occur. [[FIGURE]] The observed degeneration of microspores at the time of pollen wall formation indicated that defects in pollen wall and exine formation could be the primary cause of pollen abortion and male infertility in abcg26-1 mutants. To examine pollen wall and tapetum morphology at higher resolution in the abcg26-1 mutant relative to wild-type plants, scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and TEM were used. The surface of wild-type pollen, viewed with SEM, exhibited a characteristic reticulate exine (Fig. 6). In contrast, SEM revealed that abcg26-1 anthers occasionally released small amounts of pollen or pollen-like structures with smooth surfaces and collapsed morphology (Fig. 6B). This loss of normal pollen cell wall morphology and collapse of the microspores suggests a severe pollen wall defect, but since occasional fully fertile siliques were observed in the mutant, low numbers of fertile pollen grains were likely formed. [[FIGURE]] Since the sporopollenin-based exine of pollen grains is deposited by stage 10 of anther development, the cell structure of the developing anthers and tapetum was examined using TEM focusing on this stage. Uninucleate microspores of chemically fixed abcg26-1 anthers at stage 10 exhibited thin walls and apparently defective exine deposition, as compared with wild-type microspores that had pollen walls with a typical thick reticulate exine (Fig. 6, C and D). At higher magnification, tectum and bacula structures of wild-type exine deposited on the underlying nexine I were obvious in wild-type microspores (Fig. 6E). In contrast, walls of abcg26-1 microspores were devoid of baculae and tectum, containing instead a thin, amorphous defective wall layer (Fig. 6F). No differences in the tapetum of abcg26-1 anthers compared with wild-type tapetum cells at the equivalent developmental stages were observed in chemically fixed material. Interestingly, coil-shaped electron-dense inclusions were consistently observed in abcg26-1 locules but were never observed in the locules of wild-type anthers (Fig. 6, E and F). From light microscopy analyses, pollen development showed signs of disruption in abcg26-1 early free uninucleate microspores, in coordination with the onset of exine formation. In the images obtained after chemical fixation, however, a clearly delineated primexine was not observed in wild-type plants. To improve the ultrastructural preservation of microspores and facilitate high-resolution imaging of both primexine and exine analysis in developing wild-type and abcg26-1 microspores, we used high-pressure freezing (HPF) and freeze substitution to preserve stamens during anther development. At stage 5, both wild-type and abcg26-1 mutant microspore mother cells were surrounded by a uniform matrix between the microspore primary cell wall and the plasma membrane (Fig. 7, A and B). By stage 7, tetrads encased in callose were present in both the wild-type and abcg26-1 and appeared identical, showing primexine and probacula deposition between the plasma membrane and callose wall (Fig. 7, C and D). Shortly after their release from tetrads at stage 8, however, abcg26-1 early uninucleate microspores failed to develop well-defined baculae, which were obvious in wild-type microspores at the same stage (Fig. 7, E and F). The nexine I layer in wild-type and abcg26-1 mutant anthers was observed as a faint electron-translucent layer immediately outside the plasma membrane in these HPF-fixed specimens (Fig. 7, E–H). At the late unicellular stage (stage 9), wild-type microspores had a nearly complete pollen wall composed of nexine I, bacula, and tectum (Fig. 7G). However, abcg26-1 microspores at the same stage lacked any defined bacula and tectum structure (Fig. 7H); instead, ill-defined electron-dense deposits were observed on the surface surrounding the nexine I layer. The absence of defects in primexine but visible defects in exine formation in the abcg26-1 mutant demonstrate that contributions of primexine from the microspore were not affected by ABCG26 mutation, while the deposition of tapetum-derived sporopollenin was severely affected. [[FIGURE]] No differences in abcg26-1 tapetum cell ultrastructure, relative to wild-type tapetum cells, were observed in TEM samples (Supplemental Fig. S3). In stages 5 through 9, wild-type and abcg26-1 tapetum cells were binucleate, cytoplasmically dense with numerous vesicles, and contained no inclusions. However, as initially observed in TEM micrographs of chemically fixed anthers (Fig. 6, D and F), HPF-fixed abcg26-1 anther locules after stage 7 (tetrad stage) consistently contained electron-dense inclusions (commonly between one and 10 inclusions per locule per section) that were never observed in wild-type anther locules (Fig. 8). These structures were often in the shape of rings or flattened rings (Fig. 8, A–C) and at higher magnification (Fig. 8, D–F) appeared as coils with two laminar surfaces. [[FIGURE]] To test the subcellular localization of ABCG26, we generated a yellow fluorescent protein (YFP):ABCG26.1 N-terminal fusion under the control of a double 35S promoter and used an Arabidopsis protoplast transient expression system to monitor YFP localization. Such N-terminal fusions to ABCG transporters have been shown to retain activity (CITATION; CITATION). Observation of multiple protoplasts expressing the construct showed differing levels of transgene expression, as monitored by YPF fluorescence (Fig. 9). In protoplasts expressing YFP at low levels, fluorescence was localized to the periphery of protoplasts (Fig. 9B), where it colocalized with FM4-64, a styrl dye known to insert in the plasma membrane (CITATION; Fig. 9, C and D). In transformed protoplasts that expressed the YFP at higher levels, fluorescence was also observed at the nuclear envelope and in transvacuolar strands, in a pattern consistent with localization of some of the protein in the endoplasmic reticulum (Fig. 9, E and F). When combined with the in situ hybridization data, the predominantly plasma membrane localization suggests that ABCG26 functions at the plasma membrane of tapetum cells. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) lines with a T-DNA insertion in ABCG26 were identified at The Arabidopsis Information Resource and obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (SALK_062317, SAIL_318_B09, and SAIL_885_F06). Genomic DNA was isolated from the plants, and homozygous individuals were identified using PCR and primers P1 to P3 for abcg26-1, P4 to P6 for abcg26-2, and P5 to P7 for abcg26-3 (Supplemental Table S1). To test ABCG26 expression levels in the mutant (abcg26-1), intron-spanning primer sets upstream (P9 and P10) and downstream (P11 and P12) of the T-DNA insertion site were used to amplify cDNA by PCR (Supplemental Table S1). PCR was performed with Taq polymerase (Finnzymes) in a 20-μL reaction under the following conditions: 95°C for 2 min, 35 cycles of 94°C for 30 s, 57°C for 30 s, and 72°C for 1 min, and finally 72°C for 10 min. The amplified genomic DNA fragments from the homozygous lines were gel purified and sequenced to confirm the site of T-DNA insertion. Since the homozygous abcg26-1 mutants retained some partial fertility, it was possible to collect small amounts of homozygous mutant seed. Wild-type (Col-0) and abcg26 mutant Arabidopsis seeds were germinated on Murashige and Skoog medium plates at pH 5.7. Seeds were imbibed at 4°C in the dark, grown at 28°C under continuous light for 1 week, transplanted to soil (Sunshine Mix 4; Sungrow Horticulture), and raised to maturity at 20°C in 18 h of light and 6 h of dark. Measurements of plant height were taken at the onset of senescence after height growth had ceased, and variance was expressed as sd of 12 plants measured. Arabidopsis total RNA was isolated from the specified tissues frozen in liquid nitrogen and ground to a fine powder, and DNase-treated RNA was extracted using the Aurum Total RNA Fatty and Fibrous Tissue Kit (Bio-Rad) following the manufacturer’s instructions. The quality of the RNA samples was assessed by visual inspection of the rRNA bands on a 1% agarose gel. RNA was quantified spectrophotometrically, and 2.0 μg of RNA was used to generate cDNA by Omniscript Reverse Transcriptase (Qiagen) as described by the manufacturer. Standard curves were generated for each primer pair using flower cDNA dilutions to obtain the following primer efficiencies: 101.5% (r2 = 0.944) for primers P12 and P13, producing a 134-bp ABCG26.1 amplicon; 116.2% (r2 = 0.978) for primers P14 and P13, producing a 191-bp ABCG26.2 amplicon; and 91.1% (r2 = 0.979) for primers P15 and P16, producing the ACTIN2 amplicon (Supplemental Table S1). For the quantitative RT-PCR analysis of Arabidopsis gene expression, 10 ng of cDNA was incubated with 10 μL of IQ5 SYBR Green Supermix (Bio-Rad) and 300 nm of each forward and reverse primer (Supplemental Table S1) in a total volume of 20 μL. After an initial denaturation step at 95°C for 3 min, 40 cycles at 95°C for 10 s, 53°C for 10 s, and 72°C for 20 s were carried out, followed by a melting curve ranging from 94°C to 53°C. Quantitative RT-PCR products were run on a gel and sequenced to confirm that single correct amplicons were amplified. Two biological replicates were carried out and gave similar results. Representative data are shown for three technical replicates of one biological replicate in Figure 2B, with sd shown for technical replicates. A t test comparing ABCG26.1 and ABCG26.2 expression levels indicated a significant difference (P < 0.01). Threshold cycles (CTs) were adjusted manually, and CT values were subtracted from those of the flower sample (used as the reference tissue) to generate a ΔCT value. Fold changes were calculated from the ΔCT values and normalized by dividing the corresponding ΔCT value for the ACTIN2 control gene. Wild-type Arabidopsis (Col-0) unopened flower buds were fixed in 50% ethanol, 5% acetic acid, and 3.7% formaldehyde under vacuum, dehydrated in an ethanol series, and stained with 0.1% eosin. Samples were then passed through a xylene-ethanol series and embedded in Paraplast (Sigma) with four changes of Paraplast. The blocks were sectioned at 8 μm thickness using a microtome and mounted onto precharged slides (Probe-On; Fisher Scientific). Sections from developing flower buds at multiple stages of development were selected for hybridization to sense and antisense probes. For sense and antisense ABCG26 probe synthesis, an 822-bp DNA template corresponding to the ABCG26 region spanning exons 3 and 4 was PCR amplified from plasmid DNA containing the cloned full-length cDNA using gene-specific forward and reverse primers (Supplemental Table S1; P17–P20) and Taq polymerase (Finnzymes) at 49°C annealing and 68°C extension for 40 cycles. A T7 polymerase-binding site was incorporated into the forward primer for sense probe amplification and in the reverse primer for antisense probe amplification. Digoxigenin (Roche)-labeled probes were transcribed off the template using T7 polymerase (Roche) following the manufacturer’s instructions. Reactions were stopped using EDTA and precipitated in ethanol and LiCl. Probes were shortened to 200-bp fragments by limited carbonate hydrolysis at 60°C and quantified by dot blot dilutions compared with known samples on Hybond XL membranes (GE Healthcare). Samples were dehydrated through an ethanol series and subjected to hybridization at 55°C for 16 h. Both full-length and partial sense and antisense probes were used at 20 ng per slide in 50% formamide, 10% dextran sulfate, 1× Denhardt’s solution, 0.5 mg of tRNA, 10 mm Tris, pH 7.5, 1 mm EDTA, and 300 mm NaCl. The slides were washed in 2× SSC at 55°C followed by four washes in 0.2× SSC at 55°C, then 0.2× SSC at 37°C, 0.2× SSC at room temperature, and finally with phosphate-buffered saline at room temperature. The slides were covered with 1 mL of blocking buffer (1% Roche blocking agent in 100 mm malic acid and 150 mm NaCl, pH 7.5) for 45 min at room temperature, washed in BSA solution (1% bovine serum albumin, 100 mm Tris, pH 7.5, 150 mm NaCl, and 0.3% Triton X-100), and hybridized to anti-digoxigenin antibody (Roche) at 1:1,250 dilution for 90 min. The slides were then washed in BSA solution followed by 100 mm Tris, pH 9.5, 100 mm NaCl, and 50 mm MgCl2. The color reaction was started by the addition of 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl phosphate/nitroblue tetrazolium chloride color reagent (Roche), and the color was allowed to develop in the dark for 16 h before visualizing on an Olympus Provis AX-70 microscope. The 2,058-bp fragment encoding ABCG26 was amplified from flower cDNA using Platinum High Fidelity Taq Polymerase (Invitrogen) with primers spanning the full-length cDNA and including a stop codon. The amplified band was gel purified and cloned into a Gateway-compatible entry vector (pCR8/GW/TOPO; Invitrogen), and the gene was confirmed by sequencing. Additionally, a second unexpected transcript of 2,215 bp was amplified (approximately 10% of the time) that retained intron 7 and encoded premature stop codons (truncating at 2,182 bp downstream of ATG in the first stop codon). The genes were recombined into a Gateway-compatible destination binary vector (pDG2; modified pSM-3 vector based on pCAMBIA1390 vector) using LR Clonase II enzyme mix (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Agrobacterium tumefaciens LBA4404 was transformed with one of the described destination vectors and used to transform homozygous abcg26-1 plants by the floral dip method (CITATION). T1 seeds were grown on Murashige and Skoog plates with 50 mg L−1 hygromycin, and surviving plants were grown to maturity and allowed to self-pollinate. T2 plant genotypes were confirmed at the ABCG26 locus. PCR confirmed the presence of the transgene. Anthers were removed from fully opened flowers and placed on aluminum SEM stubs (Ted Pella, Inc.). Samples were coated with 7-nm gold using a Cressington 208HR High Resolution Sputter Coater and examined with a Hitachi S-2600N Variable Pressure SEM device. For chemical fixation, wild-type (Col-0) and abcg26-1 mutant flower buds were dissected from plants for immediate fixation in 4% formaldehyde and 2.5% glutaraldehyde in 50 mm sodium cacodylate buffer (pH 6.9). Samples were postfixed in 1% osmium tetroxide, dehydrated in an ethanol series, and incubated in acetone followed by 100% propylene oxide for 30 min. Samples were gradually embedded in Spurr’s resin and polymerized at 60°C for 3 d. For HPF followed by freeze substitution, unopened flower buds were excised from Col-0 and abcg26-1 plants, stripped of sepals and petals, and submerged in 0.2 m Suc in uncoated copper type B sample holders (Ted Pella, Inc.). Samples were frozen at high pressure with a Leica EM HPM 100 high-pressure freezer followed by freeze substitution and embedding in Spurr’s resin (CITATION) as described by CITATION. Freeze substitution medium contained 2% (w/v) osmium tetroxide in acetone with 8% (v/v) dimethoxypropane. Toluidine blue-stained thick sections (0.3–0.7 μm) were viewed by light microscopy to determine the stage of anther development as described by CITATION. Samples for representative stages of anther development were thin sectioned (less than 70 nm) with a Reichert Ultracut E ultramicrotome and mounted on 100-mesh 0.5% Formvar-coated grids. Sections were stained with 2% uranyl acetate in 70% (v/v) methanol for 15 min followed by Reynold’s lead citrate for 5 to 8 min. A Hitachi H7600 TEM device was used to examine the stained samples, and images were taken with an AMT Advantage (1 megapixel) CCD camera (Advanced Microscope Technologies). ABCG26 was PCR amplified in a 50-μL reaction from digested TOPO-A vector containing full-length ABCG26, and the resulting PCR product was separated on a 2% ethidium bromide agarose gel and purified using a Qiagen quick gel extraction kit. Primers used for amplification (Supplemental Table S1; P21 and P22) added restriction cut sites for subsequent ligation into the pE3150 vector provided by Dr. S. Gelvin. This produced an N-terminal fusion with enhanced YFP driven by a double 35S promoter. The vector was maxiprepped using the Qiagen Endo-free Maxi kit, and 10 μg was used per protoplast transformation. Arabidopsis leaf protoplasts were isolated and transformed as described by CITATION with a 2- to 3-h leaf digestion. Protoplasts were imaged with a Perkin-Elmer Spinning Disc confocal microscope. YFP was detected with a 491-nm laser and a 528/38-nm emission filter. FM4-64 (10 mm)-stained protoplasts were imaged using a 561-nm laser with a 593/40-nm emission filter within 15 min of staining. Images were processed with Volocity 4.3.2 (Improvision). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Phenotypic comparison of Arabidopsis T-DNA insertion alleles. Supplemental Figure S2. Accumulation of ABCG26.1 and ABCG26.2 transcripts in abcg26-1 mutants expressing the ABCG26.2 transgene. Supplemental Figure S3. Transmission electron micrographs of tapetum ultrastructure in wild-type and abcg26-1 anthers. Supplemental Figure S4. Key stages in Arabidopsis pollen wall development relative to ABCG26 expression. Supplemental Table S1. Primer sequences used for PCR and RNA probe generation.
