!~ABS~! Phytochrome regulates various physiological and developmental processes throughout the life cycle of plants. Among the members of the phytochrome family, phytochrome A (phyA) exclusively mediates the far-red light high irradiance response (FR-HIR), which is elicited by continuous far-red light. In FR-HIR, nuclear accumulation of phyA, which precedes physiological responses, is proposed to be required for the response. In contrast to FR, red light induces rapid degradation of phyA to suppress undesirable long-term photomorphogenic responses of phyA. In the present study, we compared biological activities between phyA derivatives to which either a nuclear localization (NLS) or export (NES) signal sequence was attached. Those derivatives were expressed under the control of the PHYA promoter in the Arabidopsis phyA mutant. Detailed microscopic observation revealed that the phyA–green fluorescent protein (GFP) without a signal sequence is localized exclusively in the cytoplasm in darkness. Rapid nuclear entry was observed after exposure to both red and far-red light. Interestingly, both phyA–GFP-NLS and phyA–GFP-NES were rapidly degraded under continuous red light. Furthermore, a proteasome inhibitor delayed degradation equally under these two conditions. Therefore, similar mechanisms for phyA degradation may exist in the cytoplasm and nucleus. As expected from previous reports, phyA–GFP-NLS, but not phyA–GFP-NES, mediated different aspects of FR-HIR, such as inhibition of hypocotyl elongation and rapid induction of gene expression, confirming that phyA nuclear localization is required for FR-HIR. In addition, a detailed time course analysis of phyA–GFP and phyA–GFP–NLS responses revealed that they were almost indistinguishable, raising the question of the physiological relevance of phyA cytoplasmic retention in darkness.
!~RES~! To elucidate the sites of phyA signal transduction and degradation within the cell, full-length phyA–GFP derivatives with either an NLS or an NES were expressed in the Arabidopsis phyA mutant under the control of the authentic PHYA promoter. The resulting lines were referred to as APAGL and APAGE, respectively (Fig. 1A). As a control, phyA–GFP without a localization signal was expressed in the APAG lines. No obvious morphological phenotype was observed when these plants were grown under continuous white light (Supplementary Fig. S1).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Three-day-old etiolated seedlings were observed microscopically for GFP fluorescence to select lines expressing higher levels of the introduced proteins. Expression was further analyzed by immunoblotting to finally select APAG53, APAGL35 and APAGE4 as the main representative lines. The correct subcellular localization and size of the introduced phyA– GFP derivatives were confirmed by microscopic observation (Fig. 1B) and immunoblotting (Fig. 1C), respectively. The expression levels were comparable in these lines with that in the wild type (Fig. 1C). Furthermore, additional lines, such as APAG77 (Supplementary Fig. S2) and APAGL36 (Fig. 1), were used in some experiments. Our PHYA promoter-driven lines attained higher accumulation levels than previously reported phyA–GFP plants (CITATION, CITATION), reaching amounts similar to the endogenous phyA (Fig. 1C). Under this premise, phyA–GFP was observed in epidermal cells in the hook region of 3-day-old dark-grown seedlings. Consequently, phyA–GFP was dispersed homogenously in the cytosol, but was not detected in the nucleus (Fig. 1B). This observation is consistent with reports describing other phyA–GFP plants (CITATION, CITATION). By minimizing exposure of the samples to the confocal microscopic laser light, formation of cytoplasmic speckles was avoided in samples not treated with light (Supplementary Fig. S3). The fluorescence distribution pattern in APAGE4 was indistinguishable from that in APAG53 (Fig. 1B). Neither nuclear fluorescence nor cytoplasmic speckle formation was observed. It should be noted that the cytoplasmic speckles formed rapidly when APAG and APAGE seedlings were subjected to two or more scans with the confocal microscope laser (Supplementary Fig. S3). As expected, the APAGL35 and APAGL36 seedlings showed very intense and even distribution exclusively in the nucleus even in darkness, indicating that the NLS was active enough to overcome any activity of phyA for retention in the cytoplasm (Fig. 1B). The phyA–GFP fusion protein accumulated in the nucleus under continuous FR (CITATION). Three-day-old dark-grown seedlings were exposed to continuous FR (20 μmol m−2 s−1) for various lengths of time and were observed with a confocal laser scanning microscope (Fig. 2A). Exposure to laser light was minimized by scanning only once per sample.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] As shown in Fig. 2A, a significant nuclear GFP signal was already detected at 2 h under FR in APAG53. The nuclear fluorescence further increased up to 8 h. The intensity then gradually decreased in both the nucleus and cytoplasm, as previously reported (CITATION). Notably, the cytoplasmic signal remained detectable throughout the 24 h FR treatment. As with samples kept in darkness, no cytoplasmic or nuclear speckles were observed in the sample treated with FR for 1 h (Supplementary Fig. S3). Semi-quantification of the GFP fluorescence indicated that the nuclear signal was stronger than the cytoplasmic signal at 8 and 24 h in APAG53 (Fig. 2B). The APAGE and APAGL seedlings were observed using the same methods (Fig. 2A). As expected, neither the nuclear signal nor cytoplasmic speckles were observed in APAGE4. The cytoplasmic signal in APAGE4 gradually decreased as with APAG53. In contrast, the signal was detected exclusively in the nucleus in APAGL35 and APAGL36. Notably, only a few nuclear speckles were observed in these lines at 2 h in FR. Semi-quantification of the GFP fluorescence indicated that nuclear fluorescence was always much higher in APAGL35 than in APAG53, whereas nuclear fluorescence in APAGL36 was weaker than in APAG53 at 8 and 24 h in FR (Fig. 2B). In previous publications, relatively rapid nuclear import of phyA (CITATION) or phyA–GFP (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION) under FR has been reported. In the present study, an ‘ultra-fast’ confocal laser scanning microscope (LSM 5 LIVE, Zeiss) was utilized to examine the nuclear import kinetics of phyA–GFP at an earlier phase of the light treatment. This microscope enabled recording of 44 Z-axis frames (1,024 × 1,024 resolution) at 1 μm intervals within 2.2 s. The resulting image stacks were inspected to select images in which nuclei were clearly recognized. In this experiment, APAG77, which showed a slightly higher expression than APAG53 (data not shown), was used to observed the GFP fluorescence more clearly. The APAG77 dark-grown seedlings were scanned once, irradiated with FR (20 μmol m−2 s−1) on the microscopic stage continuously, and then scanned again (Fig. 3). In this way, the cytoplasmic and nuclear levels of fluorescence were determined more precisely. Consequently, nuclear entry of phyA could be detected as early as 5 min after onset of FR in some of the nuclei (Fig. 3A). However, the percentage of nuclei with fluorescent signals was low at this time point. After 10–20 min, most of the nuclei exhibited the fluorescence with intensities comparable with that in the cytoplasm (Fig. 3B). The nuclear intensity continued to increase and ultimately exceeded the cytoplasmic fluorescence at 1 h after onset of the light treatment.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Both APAGL35 and APAGL36 showed mostly an even distribution of fluorescence in the nucleus in the dark (Supplementary Fig. S4). The intensity did not change very much in response to irradiation (Fig. 3B). The nuclear fluorescence in APAGL35 remained much higher than in APAG77 during the course of the experiment. Only a few nuclear speckles were visible in APAGL35 during the 1 h of exposure to FR (Supplementary Fig. S4). The observed nuclear speckles were smaller in size compared with those described by other authors (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). PhyA is degraded rapidly under light (CITATION, CITATION). Three-day-old dark-grown seedlings of the present lines were placed under continuous R (10 μmol m−2 s−1) and observed at different time points (Fig. 4A). As expected, GFP fluorescence decreased constantly during the course of the treatment. The fluorescence disappeared almost completely at 8 h in APAG53 and APAGE4. In contrast to the FR-treated seedlings, clear cytoplasmic speckles were observed at 30 min in APAG77 (Supplementary Fig. S3). Interestingly, the GFP fluorescence decreased more rapidly in APAGL35 and APAGL36. After 2 h under continuous R, the fluorescence became almost undetectable. These results were further confirmed by immunoblotting (Fig. 4B).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The GFP fluorescence in the cytoplasm and the nucleus was quantified in APAG53, APAGL35, APAGL36 and APAGE4 (Fig. 5A). The log/linear plot of the data showed that phyA–GFP was degraded with first order kinetics regardless of its subcellular localization. The apparent half-lives (t1/2), calculated from data shown in Fig. 5A, indicated that phyA–GFP-NLS was degraded 2–3 times more rapidly than phyA–GFP and phyA–GFP-NES (Table 1).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To compare the degradation kinetics of phyA–GFP derivatives and the endogenous phyA, proteins were extracted and subjected to immunoblotting. An extract from dark-grown wild-type seedlings was used as the standard for dilution analysis (Supplementary Fig. S5). The result is presented in the log/linear plot in Fig. 5A. As is the case with the GFP fluorescence analysis, nuclear-localized phyA–GFP (APAGL) was less stable than phyA–GFP localized mainly (APAG) or exclusively (APAGE) in the cytoplasm (Table 1). It should be noted that endogenous phyA degraded more rapidly than phyA–GFP in APAG53. Since the authentic promoter was used in these studies, the discrepancy was probably due to the stabilizing effect of GFP on phyA PFR. It has been suggested that PhyA is degraded by the proteasome pathway (CITATION, CITATION). Indeed, a proteasome inhibitor, MG132, at least partially inhibits phyA degradation (CITATION). Therefore, the effects of MG132 on phyA–GFP degradation were examined in the present lines. As shown in Fig. 5B, MG132 delayed the degradation to some extent regardless of the line examined. Hence, the degradation in the cytoplasm and the nucleus could not be distinguished with respect to the sensitivity to the proteasome inhibitor. Although phyA–GFP is degraded after prolonged exposure to R, rapid nuclear import of phyA–GFP has been reported in the early phase of the dark-to-light transition (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). This phenomenon was not clearly observed after 2 h in R in APAG53 (Fig. 4A). Hence, the APAG77 seedlings were observed at earlier time points using the ‘ultra-fast’ confocal laser scanning microscope (Fig. 6A). Semi-quantification of the results indicated that the nuclear signal increased up to 10 min in APAG77 (Fig. 6B), which is consistent with the previous report (CITATION). Interestingly, these initial import kinetics were very similar to those observed under FR (Fig. 3B). The nuclear fluorescence then started to decrease under R, which was opposite to the increase observed under FR.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In APAGL35, which is the line that exhibits higher nuclear abundance, rapid nuclear speckle formation was detected in some cells within 5 min under R (Supplementary Fig. S4). The number and size of visible speckles increased with time. These speckles were bigger in size and more abundant than those few observed under FR. They probably correspond to the nuclear bodies described in the literature (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). However, similar nuclear bodies were not observed in APAGL36 (Supplementary Fig. S4), suggesting that formation of nuclear speckles may depend on the local concentration of phyA–GFP in the nucleus. In order to assess the relationship between the subcellular localization and physiological activity of phyA–GFP, hypocotyl FR-HIR was examined in the present lines. The Arabidopsis phyA mutants exhibit the long hypocotyl and closed, unexpanded cotyledon phenotype under continuous FR (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). As expected, the parental phyA mutant phenotype was fully complemented in APAG53 with respect to the hypocotyl response (Fig. 7). As is the case with APAG53, the response to FR was slightly enhanced in APAGL35. However, no clear quantitative correlation between the degrees of the response and the levels of nuclear phyA–GFP was observed in these lines (Fig. 2B).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We next asked whether lower levels of phyA–GFP accumulation in the nucleus could restore the response. In APAGL36, which accumulated phyA–GFP at a much lower level than APAGL35 (Fig. 2B), the hypocotyl response was significantly weaker than in APAG53 (Fig. 7). The sensitivity was estimated to be reduced several fold in APAGL36 compared with APAG53. Hence, lower levels of accumulation in the nucleus resulted in reduced sensitivity. In contrast to the APAGL lines, APAGE4, in which no nuclear fluorescence was observed, failed to respond to the FR treatment (Fig. 7). It should be noted that APAGL35 displayed a shorter hypocotyl and a more open cotyledon angle even in darkness (data not shown). The observed ‘dark’ phenotype could be due to the presence of the active phyA PFR, which might be established by the germination synchronization treatment with light (see Materials and Methods). Hence, we re-examined the fluence response curves without the synchronization by light (data not shown). For this experiment, the seeds were treated under green safe light from the beginning of the seed imbibition. In this way, we could reduce the ‘dark’ response in APAGL35. However, the response was not completely abolished. This might be due to sensitized VLFR to the green safe light during seed imbibition. To relate the nuclear levels of phyA–GFP to the physiological responses more precisely, short-term responses to FR were examined. Chl accumulation and hook opening responses were chosen for this purpose (Fig. 8A). Although Chl did not accumulate very efficiently under longer wavelengths of FR (data not shown), the FR light-emitting diodes (LEDs) used in the present study contained a certain amount of shorter wavelength light around 700 nm and induced detectable Chl accumulation (Supplementary Fig. S6). Hence, it was speculated that the present FR source promoted both protochlorophyllide accumulation and its photoconversion to Chl.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] As shown, the Chl level gradually increased in response to continuous FR. The difference between the wild type and the phyA mutant was already obvious by 2 h after the onset of the light treatment. The Chl content was higher at this and later time points in APAGL35 than in the other lines, including APAG53 and the wild type. As with the hypocotyl response (Fig. 7), APAGE4 failed to complement the phyA mutant phenotype whereas the APAGL36 response was significantly weaker than in the other positive lines. We confirmed that the protochlorophyllide levels were similar in those lines in darkness (data not shown). In the hook opening experiment (Fig. 8B), the angle at the beginning of the experiment was set to zero for each genotype. As with the Chl response, normal and somewhat enhanced responses were observed in APAG53 and APAGL35, respectively. In contrast, APAGE4 and APAGL36 completely failed to show a response. The above responses proceeded without a lag in the wild type (Fig. 8). For unknown reasons, a lag of approximately 1 h was observed before the response became detectable in APAG53 (Fig. 8). More importantly, a similar lag was observed, even in APAGL35, regardless of the fact that phyA–GFP-NLS was already present in the nucleus from the beginning of the light treatment (Fig. 2). Hence, the nuclear entry of phyA did not appear to be a rate-limiting step in these responses. The expression of several genes is induced in an acute and strong manner over a relatively short period of approximately 1 h (CITATION). The response is almost exclusively mediated by phyA. PRR5 (At5g24470) and PRR9 (At2g49790) are examples of such genes. Dark-grown seedlings were treated with continuous FR and subjected to quantitative real-time reverse transcription–PCR (qRT–PCR) analysis (Fig. 9). The results showed that similar inductive responses were observed at 1 h in the wild type, APAG53, APAGL35 and APAGL36, whereas neither phyA nor APAGE4 responded to this treatment. These results shared the overall tendency with other physiological responses (Figs. 7, 8). However, APAGL36 responded almost normally to the light treatment, which was different from that observed for the other responses.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The 2.9 kb promoter region (position 0 to −2,929) of the Arabidopsis PHYA gene was fused to Arabidopsis PHYA cDNA, the GFP cDNA and the Nos terminator (APAG) (Fig. 1A). To localize phyA–GFP either inside or outside the nucleus, the NLS (APAGL) or NES (APAGE) were fused to the C-terminal end of phyA–GFP, respectively. The NLS and NES were derived from SV40 and PKI, respectively (CITATION). The resulting chimeric genes were inserted into the pPZP211 vector and transformed into the Arabidopsis phyA-201 mutant via Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation (CITATION). The transformants were selected by antibiotic (kanamycin) resistance. Homozygous lines were established and used for further analyses. White and R were from white fluorescent tubes (FHF32EX-M-HX-S; NEC) and red fluorescent tubes (FL20S-R; TOSHIBA), respectively. R was filtered through a 3 mm plastic plate (Shinkolite A102; Mitsubishi). FR was from LEDs (peak at 752 nm, half-bandwidth = 30 nm, LED-mFR; EYELA). Seeds were surface-sterilized in approximately 1.2% sodium hypochlorite and 0.03% Triton X-100 solution for 10 min and plated onto 0.8% agar plates containing the Murashige and Skoog inorganic salt mixture and Gamborg B5 vitamins, stratified at 4°C in the dark for 4 d, exposed to white light for 3 h to induce germination and placed in a growth chamber at 21°C in darkness for 21 h. The seedlings were further grown for 2 d to obtain 3-day-old dark-grown seedlings, which were used for most of the microscopic, immunochemical and physiological experiments. For microscopy, 3-day-old dark grown seedlings were used. All manipulations were performed under dim green light. For observation, seedlings were kept in the dark or exposed to continuous FR (20 μmol m−2 s−1) or R (8 μmol m−2 s−1). Samples were scanned only once to avoid the influence of excitation laser light on the phyA–GFP subcellular localization. Long-term nuclear accumulation was observed with a laser scanning microscope (FV300 + BX60; Olympus), whereas an ultra-fast laser scanning microscope (LSM 5 LIVE; Zeiss) was employed for the ‘ultra-fast’ observation. The GFP fluorescence was observed with laser excitation at 488 nm. For the fluorescence quantification, the Olympus FLUOVIEW and the NIH ImageJ softwares were used. For each experimental condition, images were recorded from at least five seedlings. The fluorescent intensity was determined in 2–3 regions that clearly corresponded to either the cytoplasm or the nucleoplasm in each image (see Figs. 2, 3, 4, 6) with the aid of the line measurement function of NIH ImageJ. The experiments were performed at least three times to calculate averages and standard deviations. The images recorded at different photomultiplier tube (PMT) settings were normalized with reference to the apparent intensity/PMT relationship determined by comparing the fluorescent intensities in a set of standard samples under different PMT settings. Protein extracts were prepared from about 30 seedlings with a glass homogenizer in 50 μl of phytochrome extraction buffer (100 mM Tris–HCl, 13 mM mercapthoethanol, 5 mM EDTA, pH 8.3) containing a proteases inhibitor cocktail (Protein Inhibitor Cocktail for general use; SIGMA) at the recommended concentration. The protein concentration was measured by the Bradford method (Bio-Rad Protein Assay). A 5 μg aliquot of total protein was loaded on SDS–polyacrylamide gels for immunoblot detection with mAA01anti-phyA monoclonal antibody (CITATION). For quantification of signals, the blots were scanned to obtain digitized images, from which the band intensities were determined using NIH ImageJ software. The relative level was then estimated with reference to the wild-type dark-grown standard sample prepared in the dilution series (Supplementary Fig. S5). The seeds treated with white light (see above) were placed under different fluence rates of FR for 5 d. The light was attenuated with layers of dark plastic (S802 and S909; Takiron). For the hook angle measurements, 3-day-old dark-grown seedlings (see above) were treated with FR (20 μmol m−2 s−1). The hypocotyl lengths and hook angles were determined in at least 25 seedlings for each fluence rate using NIH ImageJ software. Chl measurements were performed as described in CITATION with some modifications. Briefly, cotyledons of 20 seedlings treated with FR (20 μmol m−2 s−1) were ground in 300 μl of dimethylformamide under green safe light and incubated in darkness with rocking at 4°C. The supernatant was used for fluorescence measurements using a fluorescence spectrophotometer (LS50B; Perkin Elmer) with excitation at 620 nm and emission at 673 nm. The Chl amount was calculated as described in CITATION. Total RNA was extracted from about 50 seedlings using Sepasol-RNA I Super (Nacalai Tesque) following the manufacturer's instructions. Reverse transcription was performed with the oligo(dT) primer using a Transcriptor First Strand cDNA Synthesis kit (Roche) according to the manufacturer's instructions. PCR was performed in 100 μl tubes with a Corbett Research thermocycler (QIAGEN) using SYBR Green to monitor double-stranded DNA synthesis. Reaction mixtures contained 7.5 μl of LightCycler 480 SYBR Green I Master (Roche), 1 μl of cDNA and 200 nM each of the gene-specific primers in a final volume of 15 μl. The following standard thermal profile was used for all PCRs: 95°C for 5 min, and 40 cycles of 95°C for 5 s, 55°C for 10 s and 72°C for 20 s. Data were analyzed using Rotor-Gene 6.0.16 software (Corbett Research). As an internal control gene, the TUB2 (At5G62690)/TUB3 (At5G62700) gene was used (CITATION). Primer sequences used in the present study are PRR9 forward, GCCAGAGAGAAGCTG CATTGA; PRR9 reverse, CCTGCTCTGGTACCGAACCTT; PRR5 forward, CGTTACGAGAGCCGGAAGAA; PRR5 reverse, TGGAGCTTGTGTGGATTGGA. TUB2/TUB3 forward, CCAGC TTTGGTGATTTGAAC; and TUB2/TUB3 reverse, CAAGCTTT CGGAGGTCAGAG.
