!~ABS~! Plasma membrane compartmentalization spatiotemporally regulates cell-autonomous immune signaling in animal cells. To elucidate immediate early protein dynamics at the plant plasma membrane in response to the bacterial pathogen-associated molecular pattern (PAMP) flagellin (flg22) we employed quantitative mass spectrometric analysis on detergent-resistant membranes (DRMs) of Arabidopsis thaliana suspension cells. This approach revealed rapid and profound changes in DRM protein composition following PAMP treatment, prominently affecting proton ATPases and receptor-like kinases, including the flagellin receptor FLS2. We employed reverse genetics to address a potential contribution of a subset of these proteins in flg22-triggered cellular responses. Mutants of three candidates (DET3, AHA1, FER) exhibited a conspicuous defect in the PAMP-triggered accumulation of reactive oxygen species. In addition, these mutants showed altered mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activation, a defect in PAMP-triggered stomatal closure as well as altered bacterial infection phenotypes, which revealed three novel players in elicitor-dependent oxidative burst control and innate immunity. Our data provide evidence for dynamic elicitor-induced changes in the membrane compartmentalization of PAMP signaling components. 
!~RES~! To elucidate rapid dynamic changes in PM compartmentalization after flg22 elicitation, we performed quantitative mass spectrometric analyses on PM-derived cell culture DRMs in a time-course experiment. To allow ratiometric quantification of protein levels we employed full 15N/14N metabolic labeling. Since ligand-induced endocytosis of FLS2 takes place as early as 15–20 min after flg22 elicitation (CITATION), PAMP-induced membrane compartmentalization is expected to occur within or even prior to this time frame. Changes in protein abundance due to de novo protein biosynthesis can be largely excluded at these early time points (CITATION, CITATION). We induced cell cultures with flg22 (100 nm) or control treatment and collected samples after 0, 5, and 15 min (Fig. 1). We previously verified responsiveness of the cell culture to flg22 in an oxidative burst assay (supplemental Fig. S1). In one experimental setup differentially labeled pairs of cell cultures were either induced with flg22 or the antagonistic flg22 derivative, flg22Δ2 (Fig. 1A; Ref. CITATION). An additional paired sample set with the identical treatment but reciprocal 15N/14N labeling was included. In a second setup, flg22 and flg22Δ2 treatments were each compared with untreated cells (Fig. 1B), again using two pairs of cell cultures with reciprocal 15N/14N labeling. In experiments, PM fractions of pooled 15N- or 14N-labeled treatment and control samples were extracted by two-phase partitioning and subsequently DRMs were isolated by Triton X-100 treatment and sucrose gradient centrifugation. After liquid chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) analysis proteins were identified based on the fragmentation patterns of peptides using automated data base matching algorithms and ratiometrically quantified (CITATION). With this workflow we efficiently filtered out the between-sample variation and at the same time were able to detect subtle stimulus-induced differences in protein abundance.  [[FIGURE]] Based on the procedure outlined above, we identified 316 unique proteins. These overlapped extensively with the reported inventory of DRM-associated plant proteins (CITATION). 188 of the 316 proteins were present in reciprocal sample pairs and thus met our criteria for quantitative analysis (supplemental Table S1). Histograms of log2-transformed 15N/14N ratios matched Gaussian fits for each tested treatment and time point, indicative of normal distribution of the data sets (supplemental Fig. S2A). Of the 188 proteins suitable for quantification, 34% (n = 64) were significantly enriched in DRMs after flg22 treatment in a least one reciprocal sample pair (p < 0.05; Table 1, and supplemental Fig. S2, B and C, for detailed information see supplemental Table S1). Unaltered abundance of the majority (66%) of the DRM proteins suggests that the PAMP-induced shift in DRM protein abundance is specific and not an artifact caused by a change in phase partitioning behavior after flg22 elicitation. Based on prediction by the ARAMEMNON data base the majority of the 188 proteins (73%) found in the DRM fraction possess at least one transmembrane (TM) domain (56%), a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchor (12%) or a lipid modification (5%) (Table 1). Importantly, only 0–2% of the proteins responded in a statistically significant manner in the control samples (either treated with the antagonistic flg22Δ2 peptide or in 1:1 mixtures of untreated cells). We thus conclude that we successfully identified proteins that specifically respond to flg22 exposition. An independent experiment with two replicates using unlabeled cell cultures and quantifying protein abundance based on ion intensities at 0, 5, and 15 min after flg22 or flg22Δ2 treatment corroborated enrichment (with a similar fold change) of the majority of the proteins identified in the reciprocal 15N/14N label experiments (Fig. 1C and supplemental Table S1).  [[TABLE]] Proteins for which quantification was pursued were classified into MapMan categories (Fig. 2). The apparently large change in the category of “protein synthesis” reflects the successful exclusion of copurifying contaminants (e.g. ribosomal proteins) from the significantly responding group. The largest absolute change occurred in the category of transporters. While comprising 17% among the non-responding proteins, they accounted for 37% of the group of significantly responding proteins. Remarkably, 10 RLKs, including the flagellin receptor FLS2, are significantly enriched in DRMs upon flg22 treatment (Table 1). In fact, FLS2, which undergoes complex formation and endocytosis upon ligand binding (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION), is one of the proteins most consistently enriched in DRMs after flg22 elicitation in our quantitative proteome analysis (significantly more abundant in all 15N/14N and label-free sample sets and displaying up to 4–5-fold enrichment). We exemplarily corroborated substantial flg22-triggered enrichment of FLS2 in DRMs by an independent immunoblot experiment (Fig. 3). This also revealed depletion of FLS2 from detergent-soluble membrane (DSM) fractions demonstrating the relocalization within the PM (Fig. 3 and supplemental Fig. S3B). The importance of this pattern recognition receptor in innate immunity is illustrated by the enhanced susceptibility of fls2 mutant plants to the bacterial pathogen Pseudomonas syringae (CITATION). Furthermore, fls2 mutants lack the flg22-induced oxidative burst, callose deposition and stomatal closure (CITATION). Quantitative (15N/14N) proteomic analysis revealed a trend toward depletion of four additional responding proteins and unaltered abundance of several non-responding proteins in the DSM fractions (supplemental Fig. S3). Together, these results strengthen the notion that the observed abundance of the responding proteins in the DRM fractions is the consequence of a dynamic process associated with the concomitant depletion of these proteins from the DSM fractions rather than a change in the overall PM abundance of these proteins. However, further extensive immunoblot analysis would be required to unequivocally rule out the latter possibility.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To test whether any of the proteins identified in our proteomic analysis play a role in flg22-induced responses we employed reverse genetics and performed in planta pharmacological interference experiments. We used the occurrence of an oxidative burst, MAPK activity, stomatal closure, and the formation of callose deposits as early and late markers of flg22 responsiveness (CITATION). (Putative) mutant lines for 57 out of the 64 genes encoding proteins enriched in DRMs after flg22 elicitation were selected (Table 1) and screened for the generation of flg22-induced extracellular ROS. Most of the tested lines retained unaltered or weakly reduced responsiveness to flg22 (Table 1).  Mutants in genes FER (feronia), OST2 (open stomata 2), and DET3 (de-etiolated 3) showed either a significantly reduced (det3, ost2-1D) or enhanced (fer) accumulation of ROS (Fig. 4, A–C and supplemental Fig. S4, B–D). Immunoblot analysis revealed that these phenotypes are not the consequence of altered FLS2 protein levels (supplemental Fig. S5, A and B). FER codes for a RLK implicated in the female control of pollen tube reception, ost2-1D is a constitutively active mutant of the PM H+-ATPase AHA1 and DET3 encodes a subunit of the Vacuolar H+-ATPase (V-ATPase; (CITATION,CITATION,CITATION)). All three mutant lines (fer, ost2-1D, and det3) exhibit defects in vegetative development at the adult stage that were, however, less pronounced at the juvenile growth stage used for the majority of our physiological assays (supplemental Fig. S6). Pharmacological interference with V-ATPase function by treatment of wild-type plants with concanamycin A, a specific inhibitor of V-ATPases, phenocopied the effect of the det3 mutant and resulted in strongly reduced generation of ROS (Fig. 4D). A transgenic complementation line expressing GFP-tagged FER in a homozygous fer background (FER-GFP(fer); (CITATION)) restored the aberrant PAMP-induced oxidative burst of this mutant (Fig. 4A). These findings suggest that the observed alterations in flg22-triggered ROS production are genuine effects of the det3 and fer mutations and not due to second-site mutations in these lines. All three mutants (det3, fer, and ost2-1D) revealed enhanced flg22-induced activation of MAPKs (Fig. 4E), further substantiating the notion that flg22 responsiveness is perturbed in these lines.  [[FIGURE]] Despite aberrant flg22-induced oxidative burst and MAPK activation, flg22-triggered callose deposition was indistinguishable from wild type in rosette leaves of the det3 and ost2-1D mutants (supplemental Fig. S7). For comparison we included the rbohD (respiratory burst oxidase homolog D) mutant. Notably, although this mutant is fully devoid of any flg22-triggered oxidative burst response (supplemental Fig. S4A; (CITATION)) MAPK activation and callose deposition still occurred under our experimental conditions (Fig. 4E and supplemental Fig. S7). In line with recent publications (e.g. Ref. CITATION), the extent of flg22-triggered early and late cellular responses was not correlated in our set of tested mutants (det3, ost2-1D, and fer). Rosette leaves of the fer mutant frequently displayed tissue collapse at 24 h after infiltration of flg22, which impeded accurate assessment of callose deposition and prompted us to further study potential anomalous cell death responses in this mutant. Trypan blue staining revealed weak spontaneous cell death and occurrence of pronounced aberrant cell death after infiltration of MgCl2 into fer mutant rosette leaves, but not after infiltration into leaves of control plants, suggesting that fer is hypersensitive to mechanical or osmotic stress (Fig. 5).  [[FIGURE]] To assess whether altered flg22 responses correlate with an altered immune response, we quantitatively analyzed bacterial infection of the det3, ost2-1D and fer mutants by spray-inoculation with Pseudomonas syringae pv tomato DC3000 (PtoDC3000) ΔavrPtoΔavrPtoB. This virulence-compromised strain proliferates more slowly inside plant tissue and is expected to enable the detection of subtle differences in infection phenotypes (CITATION). While we found no differences in bacterial growth compared with wild-type plants upon spray-inoculation of ost2-1D (supplemental Fig. S8), we observed enhanced bacterial proliferation in det3 as early as 4 hpi (hours postinoculation; Fig. 6A). Because det3 is impaired in stomatal closure upon oxidative stress (CITATION), we hypothesized that it might also be defective in stomatal closure upon biotic stimuli, allowing enhanced stomatal entry of bacteria. We quantitatively assessed stomatal aperture of det3 in response to flg22 and observed compromised flg22-triggered stomatal closure in this mutant (Fig. 6C). Elevated bacterial titers in det3 mutant plants persisted until 5 dpi (days postinoculation) and even exceeded bacterial growth in the fls2 mutant at this time point (Fig. 6A). As expected, the ost2-1D mutant also did not exhibit flg22-triggered stomatal closure (Fig. 6C, Ref. CITATION). In contrast, the fer mutant had constitutively closed stomata and allowed less bacterial proliferation than wild-type plants at 5 dpi, an effect that was rescued in the FER-GFP(fer) transgenic line (Fig. 6B).  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Full metabolic 15N/14N-labeling of Arabidopsis thaliana (Col-0) suspension cell cultures was carried out as described (CITATION). Briefly, for the 15N-labeled cell cultures the conventional 14N-containing nitrogen source in the medium (K14NO3) was replaced with K15NO3 (Sigma-Aldrich) as the only nitrogen source, yielding a fully 15N-labeled proteome within 2 weeks of growth in the labeling medium.  The experimental design is outlined in Fig. 1. 15N- and 14N-labeled parent cell culture suspensions were split up for reciprocal sample pairs and either treated with active flg22 or antagonistic flg22Δ2 (EZBiolab) at 100 nm final concentration. Samples were taken before (0 min) as well as 5 and 15 min after induction. Additionally, cell culture suspensions were treated with flg22 or flg22Δ2 and compared with untreated cells, also in reciprocal pairs. Samples were taken 5 min after peptide addition. After harvesting, equal amounts (gram fresh weight) of labeled and unlabeled cells were pooled for combined protein extraction, DRM preparation, and mass spectrometric analysis.  PM preparation and DRM extraction were performed as described (CITATION). Briefly, PM fractions were isolated by two-phase partitioning, and the protein amount was determined (CITATION). PMs were resuspended in buffer (50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 3 mm EDTA) and treated with Triton X-100 at a protein to detergent ratio of 1:13 (final concentration 1%) for 30 min on ice while continuously shaking. Solubilized PM extracts were adjusted to a final concentration of 1.8 m sucrose, overlaid with a sucrose step gradient (1.6, 1.4, and 0.15 m sucrose) and centrifuged at 250,000 × g for 18 h. An opaque ring (DRM fraction; see also Fig. S3) was collected from below the 1.4 m/0.15 m interface. All steps were carried out at 4 °C.  DRM pellets were denatured in 6 m urea and 2 m thiourea and subsequently reduced in 0.5 mm dithiothreitol. Cysteine groups were alkylated in iodoacetamide and proteins were digested with endoproteinase Lys-C (Wako Chemical) and trypsin (Promega). Digested peptides were desalted over C18 STAGE-tips before mass spectrometric analysis (CITATION).  Tryptic peptide mixtures were analyzed by LC/MS/MS using nanoflow HPLC (Proxeon Biosystems) and a linear ion trap instrument (LTQ-Orbitrap, Thermo Scientific) as mass analyzer. Peptides were eluted from a 75 μm analytical column (Reprosil C18, Dr. Maisch GmbH) on a linear gradient running from 10–30% acetonitrile in 50 min and sprayed directly into the LTQ-Orbitrap mass spectrometer. Proteins were identified by tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) via information-dependent acquisition of fragmentation spectra of multiple-charged peptides. Full scans were obtained at a resolution of FWHM (full width at half-maximum) of 60,000 and CID fragment spectra were acquired in the LTQ. Additional fragmentation through multistage activation was used if peptides displayed a loss of phosphoric acid (neutral loss, 98 Da) upon MS/MS fragmentation. Fragment MS/MS spectra from raw files were extracted as DTA-files and then merged to peak lists using default settings of DTASuperCharge version 1.19 with a tolerance for precursor ion detection of 50 ppm.  Spectra were searched against a non-redundant Arabidopsis protein data base (TAIR8, version 2008–04; 31921 entries) using the Mascot algorithm (version 2.2.0; Matrix Science). The database contained the full Arabidopsis proteome and commonly observed contaminants (human keratin, trypsin, lysyl endopeptidase), thus no taxonomic restrictions were used during automated data base search. The following search parameters were applied: Trypsin as cleaving enzyme, peptide mass tolerance 10 ppm, MS/MS tolerance 0.8 Da, one missed cleavage allowed. Carbamidomethylation of cysteine was set as a fixed modification, and methionine oxidation and phosphorylation of serine, threonine, and tyrosine were chosen as variable modifications. Only peptides with a length of more than five amino acids were considered. MS spectra for protein identification were deposited in the PRoteomics IDEntifications (PRIDE) database, accession numbers 10723–10725).  For comparative proteomic analysis, reciprocal labeling experiments were set up using 15N-labeled and unlabeled (14N) cell cultures (Fig. 1). The reciprocal labeling setup was chosen rather than an experimental setup using the same 15N-labeled cultures as repeated internal standard to specifically distinguish which proteins are responding to the treatment with flg22 or flg22Δ2 (treatment effects) from those proteins that are a priori different between the 15N-labeled and unlabeled cell cultures (culture effects, Ref. CITATION).  Intensity ratios of the 15N- to 14N-form of each identified peptide were averaged across all peptides belonging to the same protein within one experimental set. Protein abundance ratios were converted into log2 values and were normalized to the median log2 ratio of all proteins identified in the non-treated sample (0 min). Only those proteins for which intensity ratios were obtained in both of the paired reciprocal experimental sets were considered for further analysis.  The data analysis workflow is based on first determining the variation between cultures based on 15N/14N ratios in independent 1:1 mixtures (Fig. 1) before any treatment is applied. The ratios in two control experiments show normal distribution (supplemental Fig. S2A) and are used to define ratio-dependent standard deviations (CITATION). In a second step, the distances to the diagonal in a graphic display of ratios in reciprocal experiments (supplemental Fig. S2, B and C) were calculated. Proteins, for which the ratios of 15N-form to 14N-form in the two reciprocal experiments lie on a 45° diagonal, are those proteins, which show inherent variation between 15N and 14N cell culture. Proteins with reciprocal behavior, i.e. with high ratios in one of the reciprocal experiments and low ratios in the other, lie away from this diagonal. Using this information, for each data point the p value was determined by a 2-tailed t-distribution (CITATION), and a multiple testing correction was applied to the whole data set using the false discovery rate (FDR) method introduced by Benjamini and Hochberg (CITATION). Reported proteins correspond to a cut-off FDR of 5%. By this method, proteins with clear reciprocal behavior (i.e. high ratios in one experiment and low ratios in the reciprocal experiment) were determined as significant (red symbols in supplemental Fig. S2, B and C).  For label-free protein quantification, separate LC-MS/MS runs were performed for protein extracts treated with flg22 for either 15 or 5 min and respective control cells (either untreated or treated with inactive flg22Δ2). For each protein, ion intensities of all observed charge states of peptides belonging to that protein were extracted from the different LC-MS/MS runs and normalized to total ion intensities per run. Ratios were calculated for each peptide separately based on normalized ion intensities, and peptide ratios were subsequently averaged to obtain protein ratios. In total, two independent cell culture sets were analyzed.  Immunoblot analysis of FLS2 in PM-derived DRMs and mutant seedlings, the oxidative burst assay, mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activity assay, measurement of stomatal aperture, callose (aniline blue) and cell death (trypan blue) staining as well as the bacterial infection assays are described in detail in the supplemental Methods. 
