!~ABS~! Cell reproduction is a complex process involving whole cell structures and machineries in space and time, resulting in regulated distribution of endomembranes, organelles, and genomes between daughter cells. Secretory pathways supported by the activity of the Golgi apparatus play a crucial role in cytokinesis in plants. From the onset of phragmoplast initiation to the maturation of the cell plate, delivery of secretory vesicles is necessary to sustain successful daughter cell separation. Tethering of secretory vesicles at the plasma membrane is mediated by the evolutionarily conserved octameric exocyst complex. Using proteomic and cytologic approaches, we show that EXO84b is a subunit of the plant exocyst. Arabidopsis thaliana mutants for EXO84b are severely dwarfed and have compromised leaf epidermal cell and guard cell division. During cytokinesis, green fluorescent protein–tagged exocyst subunits SEC6, SEC8, SEC15b, EXO70A1, and EXO84b exhibit distinctive localization maxima at cell plate initiation and cell plate maturation, stages with a high demand for vesicle fusion. Finally, we present data indicating a defect in cell plate assembly in the exo70A1 mutant. We conclude that the exocyst complex is involved in secretory processes during cytokinesis in Arabidopsis cells, notably in cell plate initiation, cell plate maturation, and formation of new primary cell wall.
!~RES~! The Arabidopsis genome encodes three EXO84 paralogs (CITATION). We focused our work mainly on EXO84b as the only paralog whose mutation produced a readily discernible developmental phenotype (see below). We previously reported that the full-length EXO84b strongly autoactivates the reporter genes in the GAL4-based yeast two-hybrid system, thus hampering analysis of its interactors (CITATION). To overcome this, we prepared constructs derived from N- and C-terminal domains of EXO84b to test its interactions with other exocyst subunits. The N-terminal domain strongly interacted with EXO70A1 both as bait and prey and weakly interacted as bait with SEC15b. On the other hand, the C-terminal domain of EXO84b exhibited weak interactions with itself and, as bait, with SEC15b (Figure 1A). [[FIGURE]] We further demonstrated the association of EXO84b with other exocyst subunits by coimmunoprecipitation in transgenic Arabidopsis lines constitutively expressing EXO84b tagged on the C terminus with green fluorescent protein (GFP). After immunoprecipitation using the anti-GFP antibody, we detected SEC10, SEC15b, and EXO70A1 by matrix-assisted laser-desorption ionization (MALDI) time-of-flight mass spectrometry in bands excised from the polyacrylamide gel; these bands were not present in wild-type and free GFP controls (Figure 1B). In addition, EXO70A1 and another subunit, SEC6, were also identified in the coimmunoprecipitate using specific antibodies (Figure 1C). We conclude that EXO84b interacts directly at least with EXO70A1 and SEC15b. The exocyst subunits SEC6 and SEC10 were coimmunoprecipitated as a part of a complex, possibly the entire exocyst complex. We characterized two T-DNA insertion mutant alleles, exo84b-1 and exo84b-2 (Figures 2A and 2B). The self-crossed progeny of heterozygous plants segregated 24% (n = 401) and 21% (n = 355), respectively, of dwarf plants that were confirmed by PCR genotyping to be homozygous for their respective T-DNA insertions. No full-length EXO84b transcript was detected in either of the lines by RT-PCR (Figure 2C). The phenotypic defect of the exo84b-2 homozygous plants was more severe than that of exo84b-1 homozygotes; we speculated that the exo84b-1 allele transcript could be spliced correctly at low frequency. However, we were unable to detect the full-length transcript even when the RT-PCR cycle number was increased to 35. [[FIGURE]] To confirm that the observed phenotypic defects are indeed caused by mutations in the EXO84b locus, we complemented both mutant alleles with the EXO84b protein fused to GFP. We used 35S-EXO84b-GFP and EXO84b-EXO84b-GFP constructs to complement exo84b-1 and exo84b-2 lines, respectively. The complemented homozygous plants of both alleles exhibited wild-type appearance (Figure 2D). These results together with the finding that EXO84b-GFP coimmunoprecipitated the other exocyst subunits (see above) suggest that the C-terminal GFP tag does not interfere with EXO84b function, and the fusion protein is able to complement the exo84b phenotypic defects. The uncomplemented exo84b homozygotes were sterile with extremely reduced stature. True leaves were angular, with small and irregularly developed trichomes or with trichome subsidiary cells without a trichome present (Figures 2E and 2F). The leaf surface of both exo84b lines showed defects in epidermal cell expansion, decreased jigsaw puzzle interlocking, and a high number of collapsed cells (Figures 3B and 3C). [[FIGURE]] On the cellular level, the leaf epidermis of both mutant lines contained cell wall stubs. There were two types of cell wall stubs: short stubs bulging from the periphery of the cell and long cell walls stubs spanning nearly the whole cell width. Occasionally, aberrant star-like cell plates stretched in the center of a cell were observed (Figures 3D to 3G). None of these deviations were observed in wild-type controls. When abaxial sides of true leaves of 15-d-old seedlings were examined, the cell wall stubs were detected in 3.5% of exo84b-1 cells (1300 cells on four leaves analyzed) and 2% of exo84b-2 cells (700 cells on four leaves). Cytokinetic defects were obvious in stomata development. We documented that 12-d-old leaves of both exo84b mutants contained morphologically defective stomata (Figure 4A). Their defects ranged from aberrant highly asymmetric stomata and stomata with imperfectly divided guard cells with incomplete ventral walls to single guard cells lacking any viable counterparts (Figure 4B). By contrast, we never found such deviations in wild-type controls. [[FIGURE]] The exocyst has been shown to be involved in the post-Golgi secretion in fungi and animals. For example, CITATION observed accumulation of secretory vesicles in yeast exo84 mutants. We examined leaves of Arabidopsis exo84b mutants on the ultrastructural level using transmission electron microscopy. We focused on cells in the epidermis that were not fully vacuolated and contained dense cytoplasm. Focusing on this cell type allowed an easy comparison of similar developmental stages between wild-type and mutant leaf cells. In the exo84b-1 and exo84b-2 mutant cells, vesicles were dramatically accumulated in 16 of 45 cells examined (Figure 5B) and often contained fibrous electron-dense material. In the wild-type cells, similar vesicle accumulation was not observed (Figure 5A). Instead, vesicles were scattered around the Golgi apparatus. [[FIGURE]] The epidermis of mutant leaves also contained electron dense, presumably aborted, cells that were stuffed with vesicles (Figure 5C). These cells most likely correspond to the dead cells described above. However, leaves of exo84b mutants also possess cells morphologically similar to wild-type cells, pointing to a large spectrum of phenotypes observed in mutant leaves (Figures 3 and 4). To examine the EXO84b subcellular localization, we used EXO84b-GFP stably transformed Arabidopsis plants, in which the expression was driven by the constitutive 35S promoter or by the native EXO84b promoter. EXO84b-GFP expressed under the control of either promoter decorated plasma membranes weakly and strongly labeled postcytokinetic walls plasma membrane in leaf and root cells (Figures 6A to 6D). In the case of the 35S promoter, we observed bright cortical particles of unknown identity (visible in Figure 6B), probably caused by the constitutive promoter overexpression. [[FIGURE]] To get deeper insight into the EXO84b-GFP cytokinetic localization, we aimed our attention at the root meristem of 4- to 7-d-old Arabidopsis seedlings as this tissue is easily accessible to live-cell imaging and harbors frequent and predictably localized dividing cells. Moreover, CITATION reported no differences between cell plate formation in root and shoot meristematic cells. The 35S-driven EXO84b-GFP signal was stronger than that of the native promoter, but the dynamics and localization of both was similar. During cytokinesis, the EXO84b-GFP signal was associated with the newly emerged cell plate and weakly with the growing cell plate. It started to substantially accumulate at the cell plate insertion site after the cell plate attached to the mother wall (Figure 6E). The precise timing of EXO84b-GFP accumulation at the postcytokinetic wall was dependent on the mode of cell plate growth. In symmetrically growing cell plates (where the entire cell plate edge fuses with the mother membrane simultaneously), the signal appeared at the moment of cell plate insertion or shortly after. In cell plates that were expanding asymmetrically, and so their edge reached one side of the cell sooner than the other, the EXO84b-GFP signal usually localized at the insertion site only after fusion of both cell plate edges with the membrane. Subsequently, the signal spread into the entire cell plate (Figure 6E). The postcytokinetic wall signal was not homogeneous; it showed fluctuating maxima (Figure 6C). After completion of cytokinesis, EXO84b-GFP remained associated with the postcytokinetic wall, with its intensity decreasing to the level of the surrounding cells in approximately one hour after its appearance. To learn whether the observed cytokinetic localization pattern is unique to EXO84b, or is rather a feature of the exocyst complex, we analyzed localizations of several other exocyst subunits during cytokinesis. We prepared Arabidopsis lines expressing GFP-tagged versions of SEC6, SEC8, SEC15b, and EXO70A1. All of them showed cytoplasmic localization, weak plasma membrane labeling, and strong association with postcytokinetic walls (Figures 7 and 8). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] During the onset of cytokinesis, SEC6-GFP, GFP-SEC8, GFP-SEC15b, and EXO70A1-GFP strongly associated with the cell plate at the moment of its emergence, appearing as a localized flash of fluorescence lasting 30 to 60 s. During cell plate growth, the signal decreased, until reappearance at the time of cell plate insertion (Figures 7 and 8). SEC6-GFP and GFP-SEC8 were expressed under control of their native promoters, and GFP-SEC15b and EXO70A1-GFP expression was driven by the 35S promoter. Importantly, both types of expression yield identical localization and dynamics in cytokinesis. Taken together, these results reinforce our previous data suggesting that the plant exocyst acts as a complex (CITATION) and further argues that the exocyst complex, and not solely EXO84b, functions in cytokinesis. As the cytokinetic localization is shared among all exocyst subunits tested, we asked whether cytokinesis is compromised in other exocyst mutants as well. Another viable available Arabidopsis exocyst mutant is exo70A1 (described in CITATION), which has a less severe phenotypic defect than exo84b mutants, and does not exhibit the cytokinetic defects described in the case of exo84b mutants. We analyzed cytokinesis in root tips of 4-d-old exo70A1 mutants and wild-type plants. Root length of exo70A1 mutants was reduced by 22% (exo70A1, 11.7 ± 1.6 mm, n = 20; wild-type, 15.0 ± 1.8 mm, n = 41; ± indicates sd). To investigate whether the delay in cytokinesis might contribute to this difference, we measured the time needed for cytokinesis completion. We labeled cell plates with FM4-64 and determined the time from cell plate appearance to cell plate straightening between the mother walls. We normalized time to the cell plate area (estimated as a circle with diameter of the finished cell plate) obtaining a cell plate expansion rate. However, there was no significant difference between exo70A1 mutant plants (0.17 ± 0.05 μm2 s−1, n = 32) and wild-type controls (0.19 ± 0.10 μm2 s−1, n = 19; Figure 9A). [[FIGURE]] We further focused on the cell plate morphology, especially around the moment of its appearance. We used three-dimensional reconstruction of time-lapsed series of confocal sections. In wild-type root meristem cells, the cell plate emerged in the middle of the cell, typically as a filled circle or as a few small patches, which quickly fused and gave rise to the cell plate. The cell plate arose from vesicles invisible in the confocal microscope (Figure 9C). However, in the exo70A1 mutants, the cell plate emerged by fusion of visible spots, forming a donut-shaped or horseshoe-shaped structure with an empty space in its center (Figure 9C). Mutant cell plates further expanded not only centrifugally but also centripetally to fill the central gap. Thus, it was difficult to distinguish mutant and wild-type cell plates in the late phase of their expansion (Figure 9D). We classified the cell plate shape into three categories, solid, patchy, and donut/horseshoe-shaped, and found that the dominant type in exo70A1 mutants was the donut/horseshoe, which was never observed in the wild type (Figure 9B). Unfortunately, we were unable to perform a similar analysis with the exo84b mutants due to their slow growth and infrequent cell divisions. However, the few exo84b-1 cell plates we observed generally resembled that of the wild type. These results suggest that EXO70A1 is important in the initial cell plate assembly phases, whereas the later centrifugal cell plate growth is likely unaffected by EXO70A1 deficiency.
!~MM~! The yeast two-hybrid was performed as described previously (CITATION): we used the Matchmaker GAL4 Two-Hybrid System 3 (Clontech), and all procedures followed the manufacturer’s instructions. To test interactions between EXO84b and other exocyst subunits, we used constructs prepared by CITATION. The EXO84b construct was divided into two fragments. EXO84bN (1 to 113 amino acids) and EXO84bC (373 to 752 amino acids) were subcloned into pGADT7 and pGBKT7. As a positive control, murine p53 and SV40 large T-antigen proteins provided with the Matchmaker system were used, and as negative control, empty vectors were used. The dilution series was prepared as follows: A single colony was resuspended in sterile water and diluted in sterile water, and 10 μL was dropped onto -Ade-His-Leu-Trp plates and cultivated at 28°C. Protein complexes with EXO84b-GFP fusion protein were isolated using the μMACS GFP tagged protein isolation kit (Miltenyi Biotec); the manufacturer’s instructions were followed with following modifications: ~1.2 g of 10-d-old Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings were pulverized in liquid nitrogen, resuspended in 2 mL provided lysis buffer, and centrifuged 10,000g for 10 min at 4°C. The supernatants were equilibrated to the same protein concentration using the Bradford assay (Sigma-Aldrich). One hundred microliter of anti-GFP microbeads were added and incubated for 30 min on ice with shaking. The lysis buffer was used to wash the samples on the column, and immunoprecipitates were eluted with 70 μL of the elution buffer. Forty microliters were run on a gradient SDS-PAGE (6 to 20%; prepared as described in CITATION), and the rest was used for immunoblotting. Proteins were blotted onto a nitrocellulose membrane and blocked overnight at 4°C with 5% nonfat dry milk in PBS (137 mM NaCl, 2.7 mM KCl, 10 mM Na2HPO4, and 2 mM KH2PO4, pH 7.4) supplemented with 0.1% Tween 20. Primary antibodies anti SEC6 and anti-EXO70A1 (CITATION) were diluted 1:1000 and incubated with the membranes for 2 h at room temperature in the blocking solution. Horseradish peroxidase–conjugated antibody (Promega) was applied followed by chemiluminescent ECL detection (Amersham). The gels were stained with ProteoSilver Plus Silver Stain Kit (Sigma-Aldrich). Individual bands were placed in microtubes and destained with destaining solutions supplied with the kit, washed five times with water, and dehydrated with acetonitrile (ACN) prior to trypsin digestion. ACN was discarded and microtubes with samples were left open to allow the ACN to evaporate. Five nanograms of trypsin (Promega) in 10 μL of 50 mM ABC were added to the gel. Samples were incubated at 37°C overnight. Trifluoroacetic acid and ACN were added to reach final concentrations of 1% trifluoroacetic acid and 30% ACN. Samples were sonicated for 10 min, and the supernatant was mixed 1:1 with water in a HPLC vial. Liquid chromatography-MALDI analyses were performed using Ultimate 3000 HPLC system (Dionex) coupled to Probot microfraction collector (Dionex). Tryptic peptides were loaded onto a PepMap 100 C18 RP column (3-μm particle size, 15 cm long, 75-μm internal diameter; Dionex) and separated by a gradient of 5% (v/v) ACN, 0.1% (v/v) trifluoroacetic acid to 80% (v/v) ACN, 0.1% (v/v) trifluoroacetic acid over a period of 60 min. The flow rate was set to 300 nL/min. Eluate was mixed 1:3 with matrix solution (2 mg/mL α-cyano-4-hydroxycinnamic acid in 80% ACN) prior to spotting onto a MALDI target. Spectra were acquired on a tandem time-of-flight analyzer (Applied Biosystems/MDS Sciex) equipped with an Nd:YAG laser (355 nm, firing rate of 200 Hz). Peak lists from the mass spectrometry spectra were generated by 4000 Series Explorer V 3.5.3 (Applied Biosystems/MDS Sciex) without smoothing, and peaks with local signal-to-noise ratio >5 were picked and searched by local Mascot v.2.1 (Matrix Science) against the National Center for Biotechnology Information nonredundant database (June 24, 2009; 9,144,919 sequences). Database search criteria were as follows: enzyme, trypsin, one missed cleavage allowed; taxonomy, Arabidopsis (60,098 sequences); fixed modification, carbamidomethylation; variable modification, Met oxidation; peptide mass tolerance, 80 ppm; tandem mass spectrometry fragment tolerance 0.2 D. The T-DNA insertion lines were Columbia-0 ecotype of Arabidopsis. Both lines were backcrossed two times into the Columbia-0 background. The exo84b-1 line was obtained from GABI-Kat (CITATION). Our preliminary observations suggested mistakenly that the exo84b-1 allele caused a male-specific transmission defect (CITATION). This was due to overlooking homozygous seedlings that visually resembled the sensitive plants on sulfadiazine selection (T-DNA insertion). The exo84b-2 line was part of the SAIL collection (CITATION) distributed by Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (www.Arabidopsis.info). The primers used for genotyping this line were RP, 5′-TGTAGATGTGCTGGTAAGAGC-3′; LP, 5′-GGACCTTCCTCAATGTCATCC-3′; and the LB3 primer, 5′-CATCTGAATTTCATAACCAATCTCG-3′. The location of both T-DNA insertions within the EXO84b gene was verified by sequencing from each end of the insert. To test the presence of the full-length gene product, total RNA was isolated using the RNeasy kit (Qiagen), and the cDNA was synthesized using the Transcriptor High Fidelity cDNA synthesis kit (Roche). PCR was performed using the following primer pair: 5′-TTGGATCCGTTTAACGATGGCGGCGAAGA-3′ and 5′-TGAGCTCTCAATAGCTGCCATGAGATCT-3′. As a control, the ACTIN7 gene was amplified using these primers: 5′-GAAACTCACCACCACGAACCA-3′ and 5′-GCCGATGGTGAGGATATTCAGC-3′. Arabidopsis seeds were planted into Jiffy pellets (www.jiffypot.com) or surface sterilized, stratified at 4°C for 3 to 5 d, and planted on vertical agar plates (half-strength Murashige and Skoog, 1% [w/v] sucrose, 1.6% agar, and vitamins or half-strength Murashige and Skoog with 2% sucrose in the case of the GFP-SEC8 line). Plants were grown in a climate chamber at 22°C under long-day conditions (16 h of light per day). Cell wall stubs were counted on abaxial side of 10- to 13-d-old true leaves stained with 10 μM FM4-64 using the ImageJ program (CITATION). For stomata analysis, the 11-d-old seedlings were fixed in 3:1 ethanol:acetic acid overnight, washed with 70% ethanol and water, incubated for 1 h in 1% SDS + 200 mM NaOH, washed again with water, and observed with an Olympus BX51 microscope. Construct of EXO84b used in CITATION was transferred into binary vector pK7FWG2 (CITATION) using the Gateway system (Invitrogen). A region of 460 bp upstream the EXO84b start ATG were cloned into the pENTR1A vector containing the EXO84b and further transferred into pGWB4 (CITATION). SEC6 was cloned into pENTRY vector and transferred into pK7FWG2. Using SacI and EcoRI, the 35S promoter was excised and replaced by a 1000-bp presumptive SEC6 promoter region, previously cloned into pDRIVE vector (Qiagen PCR cloning kit), and cut out as an EcoRI and BamHI fragment. Cohesive EcoRI end ligation with linearized pK7FWG2-SEC6 was performed, followed by blunting and closing the plasmid. SEC15b was PCR amplified and cloned by BamHI and XbaI enzymes into pBAR vector (kindly provided by Ben Holt, University of North Carolina). pBAR1 was modified by inserting a GFP cassette for N-terminal fusions driven by the 35S promoter (cloned from the pCAT vector) using HindIII and BamHI sites. EXO70A1 was amplified as cDNA bordered by SpeI sites and inserted into XbaI site of the pBAR1. The native promoter-driven GFP-tagged SEC8 line was developed by adapting a LAT52-SEC8 (CITATION). A modified GFP coding sequence (CITATION) was inserted into the construct at the 5′ end of the SEC8 sequence using BamHI and AflII. The LAT52 promoter was excised by BamHI and SalI, and the presumptive promoter for SEC8 (886 bp 5′ to the SEC8 start codon) was amplified from the genomic sequence and ligated into its place. The native promoter-GFP-SEC8 construct was verified by sequencing and transformed into Arabidopsis plants containing the sec8-1 mutation (CITATION). The function of the construct was verified by complementation of the pollen transmission defect normally associated with sec8-1 (CITATION). Arabidopsis plants were transformed by Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated transformation using the floral dip method (CITATION). Scanning electron micrographs were taken using JEOL JSM-6380LV (located at the Institute of Geology and Paleontology, Charles University, Prague) in the low vacuum regime. For transmission electron microscopy, true leaves of 11-d-old seedlings were fixed for 24 h in 2.5% glutaraldehyde in 0.1 M cacodylate buffer, pH 7.2, and postfixed in 2% OsO4 in the same buffer. Fixed tissue was dehydrated through an ethanol and acetone series and embedded in EponAraldite. Thin sections were cut on a Reichert-Jung Ultracut E ultramicrotome and stained using uranyl acetate and lead citrate. Sections were examined and photographed using a JEOL JEM-1011 electron microscope equipped with Veleta CCD camera Olympus Soft Imaging Solution software. For live-cell imaging, the 4- to 7-d-old seedlings with the agar beneath them were transferred upside-down into a chambered cover glass (Lab-Tek II) and observed with Zeiss LSM 5 DUO confocal laser scanning microscope using the Zeiss C-Apochromat ×40/1.2 water corrected objective. For images in Figures 6A and 7C, the Live module was used. FM4-64 (Invitrogen) was resuspended in DMSO to a concentration of 5 mM, diluted 1:1000 to 1:500 in water, and added into the chambered cover glass and incubated for 10 min prior to observation. The accession numbers and T-DNA insertion lines used in this study are listed in Table 1. Accession Numbers and T-DNA Insertion Lines Used in This Study
