!~ABS~! Double B-box 1a (DBB1a) belongs to the zinc-finger family proteins in Arabidopsis thaliana. Transcriptional analysis uncovered that the DBB1a gene expression was blue light-dependently regulated, and the transcript level of DBB1a in cry1cry2 was decreased but not in phyAphyB compared to wild type under blue light conditions. Transgenic plants containing pDBB1a:GUS (β-glucuronidase) displayed GUS activity in the vascular system of leaves and petioles. Green fluorescent protein (GFP)-fused DDB1a (DBB1a-GFP) protein was found in the nucleus in transient transformation assays with onion epidermal cells as well as in stable transgenic Arabidopsis plants. To investigate the function of DBB1a, we generated DBB1a over-expressing and under-expressing transgenic Arabidopsis plants. Analysis of hypocotyl growth of these lines indicated that DBB1a promoted hypocotyl elongation under blue light condition. The phenotype of transgenic plants with DBB1a over-expression could be impaired by a gibberellin (GA)-biosynthesis inhibitor. Moreover, the expression analysis of GA metabolic and catabolic genes in DBB1a transgenic lines indicated that the DBB1a suppressed GA2-oxidase1 (GA2ox1) and GA2-oxidase8 (GA2ox8) expression, but induced GA3β-hydroxygenase1 (GA3ox1) and GA20-oxidase1 (GA20ox1) expression under blue light. Taken together, we concluded that DBB1a promotes hypocotyl elongation under blue light condition through an increase in bioactive GA levels in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! The expression of DBB1a in Col-4 seedlings with blue light treatments was determined. The result showed that transcript level of DBB1a was increasingly up-regulated by higher fluence rates of blue light (Fig. 1c). Furthermore, we found that the transcript abundance of DBB1a was more induced by prolonged blue light treatment (Fig. 1d). We also measured transcript abundance of a well-characterized marker gene for blue light induction, GA2ox1 (Zhao et al. CITATION), which served as a positive control (Fig. 1e). phyA, phyB, cry1 and cry2 are the major photoreceptors involved in the hypocotyl growth. Compared to the wild type, the phyAphyB mutant hypocotyls were longer both under red light and blue light, while cry1cry2 mutant hypocotyls were only longer under blue light (Neff and Chory CITATION; Zhao et al. CITATION). We used q-PCR to measure the transcript abundance of DBB1a in cry1cry2 and phyAphyB mutants. Our results showed that the transcript level of DBB1a in cry1cry2 mutant was decreased compared to wild type (Fig. 1f), but no obvious difference was observed between wild-type and phyAphyB mutant (Fig. 1g). Several independent primary transformants were identified due to basta resistance. Transgenic plants were subsequently regenerated and used for phenotype analyses. The expression levels of transgenes were elucidated by q-PCR. The results showed that the transcript level of DBB1a in two independent DBB1a over-expression lines 35S::DBB1a-1 and 35S::DBB1a-2 was significantly higher than that of wild type, whereas it was distinctly lower in independent DBB1aRNAi (dbb1a-1) and 35S::DBB1a\Col-4 (DBB1a co-suppression) transgenic lines (dbb1a-2) (Fig. 1h). As DBB1a had high homology to several other members of the DBB subfamily, we checked the expression of those DBB subfamily genes in DBB1a-RNAi lines, and the result indicated that those genes did not substantially alter their expression compared with wild type (Supplementary Information, Fig. S1). The 1,975-bp region upstream of the translational start codon ATG of DBB1a was fused to the GUS gene, and the resulting construct was transformed into wild-type Arabidopsis plants to produce a set of 29 independent pDBB1a:GUS lines. GUS activities of five pDBB1a:GUS independent transgenic lines were detected in the vascular system of young leaves and petioles of 6-day-old transgenic seedlings (Fig. 2a, b), and all showed the same phenotype. In 8-week-old transgenic plants, GUS activity was also observed in the vascular system of the rosette leaves (Fig. 2c) and petioles (Fig. 2d). These data show a distinct expression pattern of DBB1a in specific tissues of the plant. [[FIGURE]]  To investigate the subcellular localization of DBB1a protein, we fused the coding region of DBB1a to N-terminus of GFP under the control of cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. This DBB1a-GFP fusion was both tested by transformation assay in onion epidermal cells and by introduction into Arabidopsis plants. The results showed that DBB1a was localized to the nucleus in onion epidermal cells (Fig. 3a), as well as in transgenic Arabidopsis plants (Fig. 3b–d). The image of 35S:GFP transgenic seedlings was used as a control (Fig. 3e–g). [[FIGURE]]  To investigate the function of DBB1a in light-mediated early plant development, the DBB1a over-expression and under-expression transgenic lines were germinated at different fluence rates of monochromatic blue, red and far-red light. The result showed that those seedlings had the same hypocotyl length with wild type in the dark condition (Fig. 4a). However, compared with wild type and sgs, the DBB1a over-expressed transgenic lines had longer hypocotyls and the DBB1a under-expressed transgenic lines had shorter hypocotyls under 28 μmol m−2s−1 blue light (Fig. 4b). Differences in hypocotyl length were obvious under blue light fluence rates of 10–260 μmol m−2s−1 (Fig. 4e); however, no significant differences in hypocotyl length were observed among the above strains under red or far-red light (Fig. 4c, d, f, g). Besides, no cotyledon or root phenotypes were observed in DBB1a over-expression or under-expression transgenic lines (data not shown). These results lead us to conclude that DBB1a acts as a negative regulator of blue light-mediated hypocotyl elongation. [[FIGURE]]  GAs exert an opposite effect to light on photomorphogenesis (de Lucas et al. CITATION). Besides, when GA synthesis was inhibited, the cry1cry2 mutant seedlings grown in blue light with relatively higher fluence rates exhibited greater hypocotyl elongation in response to GA3 than the wild-type seedlings (Zhao et al. CITATION). To check whether GA was involved in the development of DBB1a-mediated hypocotyl elongation under blue light, we examined the effects of exogenous GA3 and the GAs biosynthesis inhibitor paclobutrazol on hypocotyl elongation in DBB1a over-expressed (35S::DBB1a), under-expressed (dbb1a) and Col-4 (WT) seedlings under blue light. The result showed that the DBB1a over-expression line only responded weakly to bioactive GA3 (Fig. 5b); however, GA biosynthesis inhibitor paclobutrazol could impair the phenotype of DBB1a over-expression and under-expression lines under blue light (Fig. 5c, d). Those results indicated that GA was required for DBB1a-mediated hypocotyl elongation. [[FIGURE]]  To investigate the role of DBB1a in the regulation of some GA metabolic and catabolic genes expression under blue light, we performed q-PCR analyses to measure the expression of GA metabolic genes, GA2ox1 and GA2ox8, and GA biosynthesis genes, GA3ox1 and GA20ox1 (Sakamoto et al. CITATION; Reid et al. CITATION) in 6-day-old DBB1a over-expressed (35S::DBB1a), DBB1a under-expressed (dbb1a) and Col-4 (WT) seedlings in transient induction under blue light condition. As shown in Fig. 6, the expression of GA2ox1 and GA2ox8 were lower in the 35S::DBB1a transgenic plants and higher in dbb1a transgenic plants; however, the expression of GA3ox1 and GA20ox1 were lower in dbb1a and higher in 35S::DBB1a. Taken together, these results suggest that AtDBB1a can increase bioactive GA levels under blue light growth conditions. [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana L. ecotype Columbia (Col-4), mutants cry1cry2 and phyAphyB were obtained from Chentao Lin Laboratory (UCLA, Los Angeles, CA, USA). Col-4 was used for the background in this study. cry1cry2 and phyAphyB had been described previously (Mockler et al. CITATION). To avoid co-suppression, the over-expression plasmid was also transformed to sgs mutant (co-suppression deficient; Elmayan et al. CITATION; Morel et al. CITATION). The surface-sterilized seeds were sown on Murashige and Skoog medium containing 1% sucrose and were cold treated at 4°C for 3 days. After exposure to white light (100 μmol m−2 s−1) for 24 h to stimulate germination, seeds were transferred to appropriate light conditions under long-day conditions (LD, 16-h light/8-h dark cycle) at 22°C (Zhao et al. CITATION). To investigate the response of blue light-mediated inhibition of hypocotyl elongation to exogenous GA3 and the GA biosynthesis inhibitor paclobutrazol, seeds were surface sterilized in 70% ethanol for 30 s, in 0.1% HgCl2 for 8 min, and rinsed five times with sterile, distilled water. All hormone and inhibitor stocks were dissolved in 70% (v/v) ethanol as a 500× concentrate. The final concentrations of GA3 (Shanghai Solvent, Shanghai, China) and the paclobutrazol (J&K Chemical Ltd, Beijing, China) in the Murashige and Skoog medium were indicated in respective figures. Seeds were placed in the dark at 4°C for 4 days, exposed to white light for 12 h to enhance germination, then transferred to temperature-controlled growth chambers and grown under continuous blue light or in the dark at 22°C (Zhao et al. CITATION). In addition to light sources reported previously (Zhao et al. CITATION), LED-B (peak: 470 nm, half band width: 30 nm), LED-R (peak: 660 nm, half band width: 20 nm), and LED-FR (peak: 740 nm, half band width: 25 nm) were also used. Fluence rates of white, red and blue light were measured using an Li-250 quantum photometer (LI-COR) (Lambda. Instrument Corp., Lincoln, NE, USA). The approximate fluence rates of FR light were estimated by plotting the relative fluence rate measured with an Li-250 quantum photometer to a near-linear standard curve of fluence rates measured with a spectroradiometer, as described previously (Zhao et al. CITATION). Total RNA was extracted using Puprep RNAeasy Mini Kit (Ambiogen Life Tech Ltd, Shanghai, China). DNA-free RNA was obtained by RQ1 Dnase treatment according to the manufacturer’s instructions (Promega, Beijing, China). Each cDNA sample was diluted 1:10 in sterile ddH2O, and 1 μl of diluted cDNA was used in a 20 μl PCR reaction. The q-PCR analyses were performed using SYBR Green PCR Master Mix (Applied Biosystems, Beijing, China), using an Mx3000P Real-Time PCR System (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA, USA) and data were analyzed with MxPro software (Stratagene). The cycling parameters were 95°C for 2 min, followed by 40 cycles of 95°C for 30 s, 58°C for 30 s and 72°C for 30 s. Each gene was assayed in three biological replicates and normalized using Actin2/7. The primers used for real-time PCR were listed in Table 1.[[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] Using genomic sequences from the TAIR8 database (http://www.arabidopsis.org/), the full-length DBB1a (AT2G21320) open reading frame (Fig. 1a) was amplified from cDNA by PCR with primers AT2G21320cDNA (primer sequences are listed in Table 1) and cloned into CaMV35S::pENSG-GFP-GW vector using Gateway (Invitrogen) to obtain the binary vector p35S::GFP:DBB1a as described (Wang et al. CITATION, CITATION), and the binary vector of 35S:GFP was used as a control. The special fragment sequences of DBB1a (447–589, 569–747 and 709–823 bp in coding regions) were PCR amplified with primer pairs P21320rRNAi1F/R, P21320rRNAi2F/R and P21320rRNAi3F/R, respectively (primer sequences are listed in Table 1), and cloned into pJawoh18 to obtain the DBB1a RNAi constructs (Fig. 1b; Wang et al. CITATION, CITATION; Xiao et al. CITATION). The binary vectors were sequenced to verify in-frame fusion of PCR fragments to the GFP gene. [[FIGURE]]  All constructs were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 90RK using the freeze–thaw method (Wang et al. CITATION, CITATION; Xiao et al. CITATION), and into ‘Col-4’ strains using the floral dipping method (Clough and Bent CITATION), respectively. Those three kinds of DBB1a-RNAi constructs were transformed into GV3101 independently, but were transformed into Arabidopsis with a mixture. As the DBB1a gene was co-suppressed in Col-4 background, DBB1a over-expression construct was also transformed to sgs mutant. Transformed plants were selected by spraying with 0.1% BASTA herbicide, and several individual lines with a single T-DNA locus, as determined by the segregation of basta-resistant versus sensitive ratios (3:1), were selected. Homozygous transgenic plants were used for further studies, as described previously (Wang et al. CITATION, CITATION). The 1,975 bp region upstream of the translational start ATG of DBB1a was cloned from the genomic DNA of the Columbia ecotype and fused to the GUS report gene to form a binary vector using the GATEWAY cloning system (Invitrogen) (Wang et al. CITATION, CITATION). The sequences of all primers are given in Table 1. The GUS fusion gene was introduced into Columbia, and T2 lines were used for analysis. GUS staining was performed for 2–3 h at 37°C using X-Gluc (Sigma–Aldrich, St. Louis, MO, USA) as described previously (Jefferson CITATION). The material was washed repeatedly in 70% ethanol until the tissue was bleached. The stained tissue was then observed and photographed using an Olympus BX51 Microscope (Olympus Corporation, Japan), as described previously (Wang et al. CITATION, CITATION). Each plate was shot twice. Each shot contains 270 μg gold particles (1.0 μm in diameter), and particles were coated with 2 μl of 35S:DBB1a-GFP recombinant plasmid at 0.5 μg/μl. The gold-coated DNA particles were delivered into onion epidermal cells using the PDS-1000/He Biolistic Particle Delivery System (BioRad Laboratories, Hercules, CA, USA), and the bombarded onion epidermal peels were maintained at 25°C for at least 12 h until they were examined by fluorescence microscopy (Nikon, Tokyo, Japan) according to Lee et al. (CITATION). To visualize the GFP-DBB1a fusion protein, transgenic seedlings expressing GFP-DBB1a were mounted onto slides and examined under a laser confocal fluorescence microscopy (FV500 + IX70). GFP fluorescense was induced by exposure to blue light.
