!~ABS~! In land-plant chloroplasts, the grana play multiple roles in photosynthesis, including the potential increase of photosynthetic capacity in light and enhancement of photochemical efficiency in shade. However, the molecular mechanisms of grana formation remain elusive. Here, we report a novel gene, Grana-Deficient Chloroplast1 (GDC1), required for chloroplast grana formation in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). In the chloroplast of knockout mutant gdc1-3, only stromal thylakoids were observed, and they could not stack together to form appressed grana. The mutant exhibited seedling lethality with pale green cotyledons and true leaves. Further blue native-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis analysis indicated that the trimeric forms of Light-Harvesting Complex II (LHCII) were scarcely detected in gdc1-3, confirming previous reports that the LHCII trimer is essential for grana formation. The Lhcb1 protein, the major component of the LHCIIb trimer, was substantially reduced, and another LHCIIb trimer component, Lhcb2, was slightly reduced in the gdc1-3 mutant, although their transcription levels were not altered in the mutant. This suggests that defective LHCII trimer formation in gdc1-3 is due to low amounts of Lhcb1 and Lhcb2. GDC1 encodes a chloroplast protein with an ankyrin domain within the carboxyl terminus. It was highly expressed in Arabidopsis green tissues, and its expression was induced by photosignaling pathways. Immunoblot analysis of the GDC1-green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein in 35S::GDC1-GFP transgenic plants with GFP antibody indicates that GDC1 is associated with an approximately 440-kD thylakoid protein complex instead of the LHCII trimer. This shows that GDC1 may play an indirect role in LHCII trimerization during grana formation.
!~RES~! We screened young seedlings to isolate novel genes required for chloroplast biogenesis and identified a pale green mutant, named gdc1-1, from a collection of T-DNA insertion lines (CITATION). The gdc1-1 mutants can survive for approximately 5 to 6 weeks with a pale green phenotype when germinated on soil (Fig. 1). The pale coloration was observed throughout the life of the mutant and uniformly affected all the aerial tissues. The gdc1-1 plants grew much slower than the wild type, and growth ceased at the vegetative growth stage before bolting. [[FIGURE]] To establish whether gdc1-1 is a nuclear recessive mutant, 353 progeny obtained from self-pollinated heterozygotes (GDC1/gdc1) were segregated at a green plants-to-pale green plants phenotypic ratio of 268:85 [χ2 (3:1) = 0.16; P > 0.50]. This ratio was expected for a character inherited as a single recessive Mendelian trait. Cosegregation of resistance to Basta (conferred by T-DNA) and the pale green phenotype indicated that the pale coloration of the gdc1-1 mutant cosegregated with the T-DNA insertion (data not shown). To identify the corresponding GDC1 gene, thermal asymmetric interlaced (TAIL)-PCR was used to obtain a genomic DNA fragment that flanked the left border of T-DNA (CITATION). Sequencing of the TAIL-PCR products suggested that the T-DNA is inserted in the only intron of a predicted open reading frame (AT1G50900; Fig. 2A). PCR analysis using T-DNA and genome-specific primers indicated that all mutant plants analyzed were homozygous for the insertion (data not shown), which indicated that AT1G50900 was responsible for the gdc1-1 pale green phenotype. Genetic complementation was subsequently performed to confirm the results. A 3,538-bp DNA fragment, which included the genomic sequences of AT1G50900 and 1,886-bp sequences upstream from the initiation codon, was cloned from the wild type and introduced into the heterozygous (GDC1/gdc1) plants. A total of 17 transgenic plants were generated, and each exhibited normal morphology (Fig. 1A). PCR analysis confirmed that two of 17 transgenic plants were homozygous for the gdc1 mutation. Transmission electron microscopy analysis showed that the ultrastructure of the complemented gdc1-1 chloroplast resembled that of the wild type (Fig. 3G). These results verified that AT1G50900 was GDC1 and that the 3,538-bp genomic region was sufficient for GDC1 function. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In addition, we obtained another two gdc1-1 alleles from the SIGnAL collection at the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC): gdc1-2 (SALK_151530) and gdc1-3 (SALK_126967). PCR analysis confirmed that the T-DNAs were inserted into the only intron and the last exon of the AT1G50900 locus in the gdc1-2 and gdc1-3 alleles, respectively. Both gdc1-2 and gdc1-3 showed similar phenotypes to that of gdc1-1 (Fig. 1A). AT1G50900 expression was examined in the allelic mutant plants using reverse transcription (RT)-PCR and real-time RT-PCR analysis with gene-specific primers. Gene expression levels in gdc1-1 and gdc1-2 were 5.07% and 3.58% of the wild type, respectively. However, GDC1 expression was not detected in gdc1-3 (Fig. 2, B and C). Therefore, gdc1-3 was chosen for further analysis. Previous reports demonstrated that leaf coloration mutants are related to chloroplast biogenesis (CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, to determine if the GDC1 mutation resulted in the chloroplast biogenesis defect, the gdc1-3 mutant leaf chloroplast ultrastructure was analyzed by transmission electron microscopy. In mature chloroplasts of the wild-type plants, the internal membranes were present as either stroma thylakoids or stacked grana thylakoids (Fig. 3, A and B). In gdc1-3 chloroplasts, only stromal thylakoids were observed; they could not stack together to form appressed grana (Fig. 3, C and D). Typical grana were not detected in the gdc1-1 and gdc1-2 mutants, in which the unstacked thylakoid lamella resembled gdc1-3 (Fig. 3, E and F). These results indicated that the GDC1 protein is essential for the formation of stacked grana. The pale green phenotype suggested that major pigment levels in the mutant were reduced. Therefore, we measured the concentration of chlorophylls in the leaves of mutant and wild-type plants. The total chlorophyll content of the 3-week-old wild-type leaves was 1,302.57 ± 60.56 μg g−1 fresh weight, while the total chlorophyll content in gdc1-3 was reduced by approximately 82%, with only 245.32 ± 1.49 μg g−1 fresh weight. However, the chlorophyll a/b ratio was increased from 3.44 in the wild type to 13.81 in the gdc1-3 mutant (Table I). This indicated that the high chlorophyll a/b ratio primarily resulted from a more substantial reduction of chlorophyll b in the mutant. Total chlorophylls were obtained from 100 mg of fresh tissue from 3-week-old Arabidopsis basal rosette leaves using 100% acetone. Spectrophotometric quantification was carried out, and then the ratio of chlorophyll a to chlorophyll b was calculated. Values shown are μg g−1 fresh weight. PSII and LHCII are mainly located in the appressed granal domain. PSII activity in the grana-deficient gdc1-3 mutant was analyzed by measuring the ratio of variable fluorescence to maximum fluorescence as follows: Fv/Fm = (Fm − Fo)/Fm, where Fo and Fm are minimum and maximum chlorophyll a fluorescence of dark-adapted leaves, respectively. Fv/Fm reflects the maximum potential capacity of the PSII photochemical reactions (CITATION). The Fv/Fm value of 3-week-old leaves was 0.81 ± 0.01 in wild-type plants, and the gdc1-3 value was 0.79 ± 0.01. Despite the fact that the Fv/Fm value was very close for the wild type and the mutant, the Fo and Fm in the mutant were dramatically lower than in the wild type. This demonstrates that the photochemical efficiency of PSII was not affected by the mutation in gdc1-3. The effects of grana deficiency on protein complexes embedded in thylakoid membranes were examined. The chlorophyll-protein complexes were solubilized from thylakoid membranes using dodecyl-β-d-maltopyranoside and separated by blue native (BN)-PAGE (CITATION). After the first-dimensional separation in the presence of Coomassie Brilliant Blue G-250, the major bands representing PSII supercomplexes, monomeric PSI and dimeric PSII, monomeric PSII, dimeric cytochrome b6f, trimeric LHCII, and monomeric LHCII were resolved in the wild type (Fig. 4A). Most of the bands were also detected in the gdc1-3 mutant. However, the trimeric LHCII was negligible, and band I of the wild type disappeared in the gdc1-3 mutant. [[FIGURE]] In the grana of higher plants, the LHCII trimer is composed of Lhcb1, Lhcb2, and Lhcb3 in a ratio of approximately 8:3:1 (CITATION). The steady-state levels of LHCII proteins were examined by immunoblot analyses performed with antibodies raised against specific subunits of LHCIIb and one other minor monomeric CP26 protein. The results showed that Lhcb1 levels were substantially reduced, and Lhcb2 was slightly reduced in gdc1-3. Lhcb3 and CP26 accumulated at the same level between the mutant and the wild type (Fig. 4B). We further investigated LHCIIb and CP26 gene expression at the transcriptional level by RT-PCR. The results demonstrated no differences on transcription level between the gdc1-3 mutant and the wild type (Fig. 4C). Therefore, the accumulation of Lhcb1 and Lhcb2 was affected by the GDC1 mutation. We also characterized the subunits of PSII, PSI, cytochrome b6f, and ATP synthase complexes in the mutant. In the gdc1-3 mutant, the D1 and D2 core subunits of PSII accumulated to low levels, while the PsaA subunit of PSI, the cytochrome f subunit of cytochrome b6f, and the β-subunit of ATP synthase accumulated to similar levels as the wild type (Fig. 4B). These results suggested that PSII was severely impaired by the GDC1 mutation and grana deficiency. To verify the GDC1 gene primary structure, its full genomic DNA and cDNA were cloned and sequenced. The GDC1 gene genomic structure was 1,008 bp in length and was composed of two exons and one intron, which is consistent with The Arabidopsis Information Resource gene predictions. The cDNA we cloned from seedlings is identical to the cDNA in The Arabidopsis Information Resource database. The GDC1 mRNA encodes an unknown protein of 175 amino acids with a putative molecular mass of 19 kD. Domain analysis indicated that the GDC1 protein is an ankyrin domain-containing protein (amino acids 117–149). This domain (Fig. 5A) exhibits conservation of the consensus motif in Arabidopsis with 55% identity (defined by CITATION). This is congruent with 54% to 100% of those observed among hundreds of ankyrin repeats (CITATION). BLASTP search showed that the homologs of the GDC1 protein were also present in various plant species, including castor (Ricinus communis), poplar (Populus trichocarpa), grape (Vitis vinifera), soybean (Glycine max), rice (Oryza sativa), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), maize (Zea mays), moss, and green algae. For example, the homolog from poplar, ABK94006, shared the highest identity (76%) and similarity (85%) with GDC1; and the homolog from grape, CAN65357, shared an identity of 70% and similarity of 82% with GDC1. ClustalX2 was used to perform an alignment with these protein sequences (Fig. 5B). Phylogenetic analysis indicated that GDC1 formed a basal clade within the dicotyledons (Fig. 5C). These results indicated that GDC1 was conserved in the evolutionary process, and its putative homologs were present in various chloroplast-containing organisms, including unicellular green algae and mosses. [[FIGURE]] TargetP program analysis showed that GDC1 is a chloroplast-targeted protein (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/; CITATION). The subcellular localization of the protein was confirmed by fusing the full-length coding sequence of GDC1 with the GFP gene and introduced into wild-type plants under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. Stable transgenic plants were obtained, and GFP fluorescence of transgenic plants was observed with confocal laser microscopy. GFP fluorescence was colocalized with chlorophyll autofluorescence. This confirmed that GDC1 is a chloroplast-localized protein (Fig. 6A). [[FIGURE]] To further determine the localization of GDC1 within the chloroplast, we investigated the GDC1-GFP fusion protein in 35S::GDC1-GFP transgenic plants with GFP antibody. A positive signal was detected in the total proteins and thylakoid membrane proteins from 35S::GDC1-GFP transgenic plants (Fig. 6B). To understand which complex GDC1-GFP might be associated with, the thylakoid membrane protein complexes of 35S::GDC1-GFP transgenic plants were separated by BN-PAGE, denatured on the gel, and directly used for two-dimensional SDS-PAGE. Immunoblot analysis indicated that the GDC1-GFP fusion protein was associated with a complex of approximately 440-kD thylakoid membrane (Fig. 6C). There are two bands of about 440 kD in the wild type; however, only one band is present in the mutant (Fig. 4A). This indicates that the GDC1 might be associated with the approximately 440-kD protein complex that is absent in the mutant. Expression data from Genevestigator showed that GDC1 was widely expressed in Arabidopsis green tissues (CITATION; http://www.genevestigator.com). Therefore, northern-blot analysis was performed to confirm these data. The results showed that GDC1 was highly expressed in leaves and seedlings; however, it was weakly expressed in roots (Fig. 7A). This result was consistent with the microarray data. [[FIGURE]] GDC1 expression patterns in Arabidopsis were also investigated using a GUS reporter gene fused to its promoter (Fig. 7, B–G). The observed patterns suggested that GDC1 was not expressed in germinating seeds (Fig. 7B). In 15-d-old seedlings, GUS activity was detected in the basal rosette leaves but not in the roots (Fig. 7C). GUS staining was also observed in the stems and siliques but not in mature seeds (Fig. 7, E and G). In the flower, GUS activity was detected in the sepals, stamens, and styles but not in the petals (Fig. 7E). GUS staining for transgenic lines showed that GDC1 was only expressed in green tissues containing chloroplasts, which was consistent with its putative roles in chloroplast grana formation. In addition, we examined the effect of light on GDC1 expression (Fig. 7H). Real-time RT-PCR analysis was carried out using total RNA isolated from leaves harvested at 0, 1, 3, 6, 12, or 24 h after the transfer of 7-d-old dark-grown wild-type plants to light conditions. GDC1 was weakly expressed in the dark (0 h), but after transfer of etiolated plants to light conditions, GDC1 mRNA accumulated in a time-dependent manner. This result suggests that the expression of GDC1 is induced by photosignaling pathways.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) in the Columbia-0 background was used in the study. Seeds were planted on vermiculite and plant nutrition solution medium agar plates after imbibition for 3 d at 4°C. Plants were grown under long-day conditions (16 h of light/8 h of dark) in an approximately 22°C growth room. A gdc1-1 mutant was characterized from pSKI15 activation tagging T-DNA mutant pools (CITATION). Plants were photographed with a Nikon digital camera (Coolpix 4500). Transmission electron micrographs were obtained exactly as described by CITATION. Small leaf segments from 3-week-old plants grown on soil were obtained. The specimens were examined with a Hitachi H7650 transmission electron microscope (http://www.hitachi.com). The presence of the T-DNA insertion in the mutant was validated using primers that specifically amplified the T-DNA BAR gene (Bar-F, 5′-GCACCATCGTCAACCACTAC-3′; Bar-R, 5′-TGCCAGAAACCCACGTCAT-3′). For TAIL-PCR, T-DNA left-border primers (AtLB1, 5′-ATACGACGGATCGTAATTTGTC-3′; AtLB2, 5′-TAATAACGCTGCGGACATCTAC-3′; AtLB3, 5′-TTGACCATCATACTCATTGCTG-3′) and genomic DNA isolated from mutant plants were used. The TAIL-PCR procedure and arbitrary degenerate primers were as described by CITATION. Cosegregation of the T-DNA insertion site and the mutant phenotype were analyzed with AtLB3 and plant-specific primers (LP, 5′-ATGGCTTCTTCTTCAATC-3′; RP, 5′-AGCCTTTTGAGTCGAGTA-3′). For the mutant plants, only PCR using AtLB3 and RP primers could successfully amplify a DNA fragment of approximately 500 bp. For wild-type plants, only PCR using LP and RP primers could amplify a DNA fragment of 740 bp. PCR with both primer pairs showed positive results for heterozygous mutant plants. Complementation was achieved as follows: a DNA fragment of 3,538 bp, including an 1,886-bp upstream sequence and a 909-bp downstream sequence, was amplified using LA-Taq polymerase (Takara; CMP-F, 5′-AGTCGACACCTTTGGCTCTGTTTAGTTGA-3′; CMP-R, 5′-GGAATTCATTGGTAAGGGCATAGCGTTGA-3′). Following sequence verification, the fragment was cloned into the pCAMBIA1300 binary vector (CAMBIA; www.cambia.org.au) and introduced into heterozygous plants using the infiltration method by Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA4404. The transformants were selected on plant nutrition solution culture medium with 80 mg L−1 hygromycin and screened for green phenotype plants with a homozygous background. The homozygous background could be verified because the LP/RP amplified sequences are included in the complementation fragment, and primer sets were used as follows: AtLB3/RP primers were used to validate the existence of a T-DNA insertion in GDC1; LP/RP primers were used to detect either the GDC1 genomic sequence or a transgenic complementation fragment; and genome-specific primers CI-F/CI-R (CI-F, 5′-ACAGAGACGACGTCGAACAGGT-3′; CI-R, 5′-GCACCGATCCACTAAGTAGACAGAC-3′) were used to validate the homozygous background. The CI-R primer was designed 59 bp downstream of the CMP-R primer; consequently, PCR with the CI-F/CI-R primer set was not able to amplify a 1,486-bp fragment in homozygous plants even if the complementation fragment was integrated into the genome. SALK mutant identification verified the T-DNA insertion sites as described above by pROK2 vector-specific primer pROK2-LB3 (5′-GACCGCTTGCTGCAACTCT-3′) and genome-specific primers as follows: SALK_126967-LP (5′-CGTTTGTTTCTCCTCTTGGAG-3′), SALK_126967-RP (5′-CGACCAAGAAGTCAGAAGACG-3′), SALK_151530-LP (5′-ATGCAGACGAAAACGGATATG-3′), and SALK_151530-RP (5′-CTCATTCTCCTGTGCACCTTC-3′). Total chlorophyll was determined according to the method described by CITATION. Extracts were obtained from 100 mg of fresh tissue from 3-week-old Arabidopsis basal rosette leaves and homogenized in 10 mL of 100% acetone. Spectrophotometric quantification was carried out in a Shimadzu UV-VIS-2450. Chlorophyll fluorescence measurements were performed using a pulse amplitude-modulated fluorometer (PAM 101; Walz; http://www.walz.com) equipped with a data-acquisition system to record fast changes (CITATION). The leaves from 3-week-old wild-type plants, gdc1-3 mutants, and 35S::GDC1-GFP transgenic plants were homogenized in an ice-cold isolation buffer containing 400 mm Suc, 50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.6, and 10 mm NaCl with a chilled mortar and pestle and filtrated through two layers of cheesecloth. The filtrate was centrifuged at 5,000g for 10 min. The thylakoid pellets were washed with isolation buffer, recentrifuged, and suspended in isolation buffer. The resulting thylakoid membrane pellets were either used fresh or frozen in liquid N2 and stored at −70°C before use. The chlorophyll content was determined spectrophotometrically according to CITATION. Thylakoid membrane complexes were separated by BN-PAGE (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Albumin bovine monomer (66 kD), lactate dehydrogenase (140 kD), catalase (232 kD), ferritin (440 kD), and porcine thyroid (669 kD) from Amersham Life Sciences were loaded alongside as molecular marker proteins. Thylakoid membrane complexes of 35S::GDC1-GFP transgenic plants were directly denatured for SDS-PAGE and immunolocalization analysis. For two-dimensional analysis, excised BN-PAGE lanes were soaked in SDS sample buffer and 5% β-mercaptoethanol for 15 min and layered onto 15% SDS-polyacrylamide gels. Total proteins for immunological detection were extracted from 3-week-old wild-type plants and gdc1-3 mutants as described previously (CITATION). Proteins were separated by 15% SDS-PAGE. After electrophoresis, the total proteins and the thylakoid membrane proteins were transferred electrophoretically to BioTrace polyvinylidene difluoride transfer membranes (Pall Corp.; http://www.pall.com) and immunoblotted with various thylakoid membrane protein antibodies (Agrisera; http://www.agrisera.com) and GFP antibody (Beijing CoWin; www.cwbiotech.com). Antibodies were detected using an enhanced chemiluminescence detection system (ECL; Amersham Life Sciences; http://gehealthcare.com/lifesciences) following the manufacturer’s instructions. For GFP fusion, the full-length coding sequence without the TAG stop codon was cloned from the seedling cDNA of the wild type with the following primers: GDC1-Subcellular-F (5′-GGAGATCTATGGCTTCTTCTTCAATCTC-3′) and GDC1-Subcellular-R (5′-AAGGTACCGGAGCCTTTTGAGTCGAGTA-3′). The coding sequence was fused with eGFP by subcloning and cloned into the pMON530 binary vector. Transformation was performed as described above, and transformants were selected using 50 mg L−1 kanamycin. The GFP fluorescence of transgenic plants was observed using a Zeiss confocal laser scanning microscope (LSM 5 PASCAL; http://www.zeiss.com). The multiple sequence alignment of full-length protein sequences was performed using the ClustalX2 tool and displayed using Boxshade (http://www.ch.embnet.org/software/BOX_form.html). The phylogenetic tree was constructed and tested by MEGA3.1 (http://www.megasoftware.net) based on the neighbor-joining method. Total RNA from both wild-type and gdc1 plants, which were grown at a constant temperature of 22°C under a 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle, was isolated using the TRIzol Reagent (Invitrogen; http://www.invitrogen.com) and DNase I treated by an RNeasy kit (Qiagen; http://www.qiagen.com) following the manufacturer’s instructions. The first-strand cDNA was synthesized with the Revert-Aid first-strand cDNA synthesis kit (Toyobo; http://www.toyobo.co.jp) following the manufacturer’s instructions. RT-PCR was applied to assess the GDC1 expression levels using the following primer set: GDC1-F (5′-ATGGCTTCTTCTTCAATC-3′) and GDC1-R (5′-TCAAGCCTTTTGAGTCGA-3′). The transcriptional expression of Lhcb1, Lhcb2, Lhcb3, CP26, and AtCAO genes in the wild type and the gdc1-3 mutant was performed by RT-PCR with the following primer sets: Lhcb1F (5′-TAGAAGTTATCCACAGCA-3′) and Lhcb1R (5′-CGAAGAATCCAAACATAG-3′); Lhcb2F (5′-CGGACCAGACCGTCCCAA-3′) and Lhcb2R (5′-ATGCTTTGCGCGTGGATC-3′); Lhcb3F (5′-ATGGCATCAACATTCACG-3′) and Lhcb3R (5′-TATGCAACCAAAAGCTCC-3′); CP26F (5′-ATGGCGTCTTTGGGTGTG-3′) and CP26R (5′-ACCAAATGGGTCATAACC-3′); and AtCAOF (5′-CGTGAAAGGAGAATTTAG-3′) and AtCAOR (5′-CATGCTTGAGATCTGCAG-3′). For expression analysis of GDC1 in mutants and wild-type plants, total RNA was obtained from 3-week-old wild-type and gdc1 allelic mutant plants. For light induction analysis, total RNA was isolated from 7-d-old dark-grown plants exposed to light for 0, 1, 3, 6, 12, or 24 h and from 14-d-old Columbia ecotype plants grown under a cycle of 16 h of light/8 h of dark at 22°C. Quantitative real-time PCR amplifications were carried out in an ABI 7300 Real-Time PCR System (Applied Biosystems; http://www.appliedbiosystems.com) using the following primer set, GDC1realF (5′-CACCCAGTTGATATCTTG-3′) and GDC1realR (5′-AGCCTTTTGAGTCGAGTA-3′), and the relative quantification of gene expression data was analyzed as described by CITATION. The data set was normalized using β-tubulin as a control. Northern-blot analysis of GDC1 expression was performed for specific organ types; therefore, RNA was extracted from roots, basal rosette leaves, seedlings, and inflorescences using TRIzol (Invitrogen) following the manufacturer’s protocol. Twenty micrograms of total RNA from wild-type and gdc1-3 mutant plants was size fractionated by 1.0% agarose-formaldehyde gel electrophoresis, transferred to nylon membranes, and probed with digoxigenin-labeled cDNA probe. Probe was generated by RT-PCR amplification from the specific GDC1-F/R primer set. Chemiluminescence detection was carried out as described in the Roche digoxigenin manual. The GDC1 promoter:GUS gene was constructed by PCR amplification of a fragment 1,886 bp upstream from the translation start point of GDC1 using the primers GDC1PF (5′-GGAGATCTACCTTTGGCTCTGTTTAG-3′) and GDC1PR (5′-AAGGATCCGGCTGTTCTCTTAATGCT-3′). The fragment was cloned into the modified pBI121 vector, in which the region containing the 35S promoter between HindIII and XbaI was replaced with the fragment containing HindIII, KpnI, BglII, XbaI. Transformation was performed as described above, and transformants were selected using 50 mg L−1 kanamycin. GUS activity was assayed as described by CITATION. Tissues were examined using an Olympus SZ-CTV dissecting microscope interfaced with an Olympus DP70 digital camera (http://www.olympus.com.cn) and ACT-1 image-capture software. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession number At1g50900.
