!~ABS~! The growing importance of vesicular trafficking and cytoskeleton dynamic reorganization during plant development requires the exploitation of novel experimental approaches. Several genetic and cell biological studies have used diverse pharmaceutical drugs that inhibit vesicular trafficking and secretion to study these phenomena. Here, proteomic and cell biology approaches were applied to study effects of brefeldin A (BFA), an inhibitor of vesicle recycling and secretion, in Arabidopsis roots. The main aim of this study was to obtain an overview of proteins affected by BFA, but especially to identify new proteins involved in the vesicular trafficking and its cross-talk to the actin cytoskeleton. The results showed that BFA altered vesicular trafficking and caused the formation of BFA-compartments which was accompanied by differential expression of several proteins in root cells. Some of the BFA-up-regulated proteins belong to the class of the vesicular trafficking proteins, such as V-ATPase and reversibly glycosylated polypeptide, while others, such as profilin 2 and elongation factor 1 alpha, are rather involved in the remodeling of the actin cytoskeleton. Upregulation of profilin 2 by BFA was verified by immunoblot and live imaging at subcellular level. The latter approach also revealed that profilin 2 accumulated in BFA-compartments which was accompanied by remodeling of the actin cytoskeleton in BFA-treated root cells. Thus, profilin 2 seems to be involved in the cross-talk between vesicular trafficking and the actin cytoskeleton, in a BFA-dependent manner.
!~RES~! On the subcellular level, BFA causes inhibition of secretion/exocytosis by aggregation of TGN and PM-derived vesicles surrounded by Golgi stacks into so-called BFA-compartments in Arabidopsis root cells (Figure CITATIONA−C;CITATION). On the other hand, the internalization of PM, and extracellular molecules/compounds remains unaltered or even enhanced upon BFA treatment.CITATION Such vesicular BFA-compartments in Arabidopsis roots can be easily visualized by the vital membrane styryl dye FM4-64 (Figure CITATIOND−F). Most root cells contained two to four larger BFA-compartments stained by FM4-64 after treatment with BFA for 2 h. Because of this massive reorganization of endomembrane system, differential regulation of proteins associated with vesicle trafficking and cytoskeleton was expected after BFA treatment, with some of these proteins potentially accumulating in BFA-compartments. To study and compare the root proteome in control versus BFA-treated samples, we exploited complementary gel-free and gel-based proteomic approaches to maximize the detection efficiency of differentially expressed proteins. The results are summarized in Table CITATION, which represents a fusion of two approaches mentioned above, and also the overlap of two separate label-free 2-D LC−MS/MS based quantitative methods (see CITATION). The optimized protein extraction resulted in successful resolution of the root proteome on two-dimensional gels (Figure CITATIONA). Twenty-four out of these spots that passed computational quantitative spot analysis with the p-value <0.05 were successfully identified using the MALDI TOF-TOF MS. They are listed in Table CITATION as differentially expressed. Considering the expression differences, the expression of only 15 spots (up-regulated) and 5 spots (down-regulated) changed more than 3-fold after BFA treatment in comparison to the control (Table CITATION). Two-dimensional electrophoresis was complemented with label-free 2-D LC−MS/MS analysis. Instead of relying only on basic TurboSEQUEST analysis and arbitrary, commonly used Xcorr cutoff values, we opted for further processing of the data set. Two programs utilizing the decoy database were used to discover statistically significant differential expression of proteins identified with high confidence. Samples were analyzed in triplicates, and graphs depicting their reproducibility can be found in CITATION, together with detailed software outputs and complete lists of all identified proteins. Figure CITATION shows the overall consistency in sample preparation and protein detection among the biological samples, indicating subtle physiological changes due to the treatment, rather than experimental errors. The ProtQuant software revealed a total of 1226 matched proteins (redundant entries included), of which 48 passed the p-value filter (p < 0.05) to be considered differentially expressed. Only those were given further attention. The ProtQuant results were compared to output from ProteoIQ software. It identified 659 proteins with FDR < 5.00 and protein group probability >95%. The quantification of proteins is specified in relative Log2 values. Ninety percent of the proteins (identified with at least three spectra) were found to be in the Log2 = ±0.58 interval, and 10% were in the Log2 interval from ±0.58 to ±1.58, corresponding with the factors of 1.0- to 1.5-fold, and 1.5- to 3.0-fold in differential expressions, respectively. The number of peptides and spectral count used for each protein quantitation, mean values, and standard deviations are given in CITATION. Only proteins identified as differentially expressed by both ProtQuant AND ProteoIQ were further considered to be biologically representative of the BFA effect on Arabidopsis roots. They contributed 19 entries to the Table CITATION. This relatively low number of proteins is a consequence of stringent criteria for high confidence identification (both FDR and probability) and applied ANOVA test p-value cutoff (0.05) for quantitative analysis that relied on the overlap of data from two label-free quantitative softwares. While ProteoIQ uses spectral count, the ProtQuantCITATION expands on the number of spectra by summing the Xcorr values of each peptide−spectrum detected for particular proteins. This seems to offer better statistical confidence to the quantitation, and the Table CITATION shows ratios and p-values calculated by ProtQuant. The ProteoIQ calculated ratios were almost identical for all practical purposes, and therefore, they are not shown. Rigorous scrutiny of the proteomics experiment was applied to avoid false identification and quantitation that might have been misleading for investigating biological functions. Attention is also needed to be directed to four proteins (2 among them with identical sequences in the database) in the Table CITATION that were identified by detection of one peptide, but the single peptide was detected multiple times. CITATION Table S1 shows details for these proteins, as well as annotated MSMS spectra of their respective peptides. Overall, only 11 (26%) of the listed proteins were detected by both 2-D gel and 2-D LC−MS/MS (shotgun proteomics) principal approaches. This observation is commonly due to certain biases of the applied methods toward proteins of differing solubility, Mr and pI, and it justifies using more than one proteomics tool to obtain more complete proteome picture. In our case, the gel-free and gel-based overlap was likely lowered even more by applying quantitative methods with stringent statistics. The overlap of all proteins identified by two approaches was not examined, since it bears no significance to the goal of this study. Together, 30% of all proteins showing altered expression caused by BFA were localized either in membranous organelles or at the PM. The proteins were classified into 10 functional groups as shown in the Figure CITATION. Together, these results show that the gel-free and gel-based proteomic approaches provided complementary sets of proteins differentially regulated by BFA. With respect to the role of BFA, we expected differential expression of some proteins involved in vesicular secretion. Among them, proteins which reside in secretory organelles such as Golgi and TGN could be expected to be up-regulated in our approach using BFA. In fact, vacuolar H+-ATPase subunit B, which makes a complex with other subunits including VHA-a1 localizing to TGN and BFA-compartments in Arabidopsis,CITATION was up-regulated upon BFA (Table CITATION). The complex of vacuolar hydrogen ion transporting ATP synthase has a role in acidification of intraorganellar space providing environment for vesicular transport. Another Golgi localized secretory protein, named reversibly glycosylated polypeptide 1 (RGP1), which was previously shown to accumulate in BFA-compartmentsCITATION was also up-regulated upon BFA treatment in our experiments (Table CITATION). These results suggested that proteins which are accumulating in BFA-compartments after 2 h of BFA exposure are up-regulated. BFA was implicated in modification and regulation of the actin cytoskeletonCITATION but the molecular mechanism behind this is unclear. Thus, one of our main aims was to find cytoskeletal proteins affected by BFA. And indeed, two actin binding proteins, namely, profilin 2 and EF-1-alpha were identified as up-regulated proteins (Table CITATION). In addition to the mass spectrometry analysis, upregulation of profilin 2 was indicated by independent immunoblot analysis with profilin antibody (Figure CITATIONA,B). It illustrated that profilin was more abundant in BFA-treated samples, especially in the soluble fraction. Furthermore, live imaging using GFP-tagged profilin 2 revealed that instead of its nuclear and cytosolic localization pattern observed in control cells, profilin accumulated heavily in BFA-compartments of BFA-treated Arabidopsis root cells (Figure CITATIONC,D). Since profilin is known to regulate polymerization rates and dynamics of the actin cytoskeleton,CITATION we also have examined the organization and status of the actin cytoskeleton. The stably transformed Arabidopsis root cells carrying the in vivo actin reporter construct 35S::GFP:FABD2CITATION were exposed to BFA treatments. The experiments displayed that the filamentous actin cytoskeleton was less defined and the general cytoplasmic fluorescent signal increased in BFA-treated cells. Interestingly, the remaining actin partially accumulated around BFA-compartments, which were simultaneously visualized by vital stain FM4-64 (Figure CITATIONB−D). Next, time-lapse imaging provided evidence that these BFA-compartments moved along the remaining actin cable tracks (Figure CITATIONE−J). Calcium binding protein calmodulin 1 (CAM1 identical to CAM4) was also up-regulated by BFA (Table CITATION). Except for CAM1/CAM4, other members of the CAM family such as CAM2, CAM3, CAM5, and CAM7 might be also up-regulated by BFA. This would suggest a very strong effect of BFA on Ca2+ homeostasis. Since the sequences of CAM proteins differ only in few AAs, it was not possible to unambiguously decide which of the CAM proteins were present. The combination of two or more of them is possible. Unique peptides were detected only for CAM1/CAM4. Intracellular calcium ion homeostasis is essential for proper vesicular fusion and trafficking as well as for proper cytoskeleton organization within a cell.CITATION Hence, upregulation of diverse CAMs might significantly affect vesicular fusion events and endomembrane flow. Such effects are regularly observed during the formation of BFA-compartments composed of fused TGN and endocytic vesicles in Arabidopsis root cells.CITATION Our proteomic analysis revealed distinct changes in the expression of proteins playing a role in protein folding (Table CITATION). Notably, the expression of these proteins upon BFA-treatment was not uniform, and seemed to depend on their localization. Thus, ER localized luminal binding protein 2 (BiP2) was up-regulated, while the cytosolic HSC70-1 protein and putative T-complex protein were down-regulated by BFA. This suggests site/compartment specific effects of BFA in Arabidopsis root cells. The upregulation of ER luminal chaperone BiP2 is likely connected to unfolded protein response (UPR) in Arabidopsis root cells as a consequence of BFA treatment. UPR involves the slowdown of protein folding and temporary abundance of unfolded proteins in the ER lumen along with chaperones such as BiP2.CITATION To examine whether BFA affected proteins involved in UPR response in our experiment, we performed search for UPR specific cis-acting regulatory elements in promoter sequences of genes encoding proteins in our data set. This analysis revealed that four proteins possessed UPR sequences, and among them, BiP2 and calmodulin 3 were up-regulated by BFA (Table CITATION). Moreover, accumulation of BiP2 (containing an HDEL retention signal) within ER might lead to abnormalities in ER membranes (e.g., proliferation and swelling) as a consequence of stress response due to impairment of vesicular secretion by BFA. To verify this possibility in living root cells, stable transformed Arabidopsis plants carrying GFP-HDEL constructCITATION were used for visualization of ER after treatment with BFA. Time-lapse live imaging of ER revealed accumulation of GFP-HDEL signal within ER as well as ER proliferation in root cells treated with BFA (Figure CITATIONA−C). Additionally, detailed electron microscopy analysis revealed morphological changes in ER ultrastructure such as proliferation of ER elements as well as their inflation and swelling in BFA-treated Arabidopsis root cells (Figure CITATIONE). In most cases, such swelled and proliferated ER elements were surrounding Golgi stacks at the periphery of BFA compartments. Interestingly, lumen of inflated/swelled ER elements regularly contained an electron dense material putatively representing accumulated proteins within ER. To gain information about the secretion of relevant proteins, we screened proteins affected by BFA for possessing secretory signal peptide in their AA sequence, using the Web-based software analysis program SignalP 3.0 (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/SignalP).CITATION Surprisingly, only eight proteins, mainly localized to the endomembrane system as predicted by Wolf Psort predictor,CITATION contained a cleavage site for secretory signal peptide. Moreover, these were not uniformly regulated by BFA (Table CITATION). Four of them were down-regulated, suggesting possible degradation after the inhibition of exocytosis. In addition to BiP2, NAI2 which regularly localizes to ERCITATION was also up-regulated in our experiments, thus, suggesting its accumulation in the ER lumen. Finally, some proteolytic enzymes including cathepsin B-like protease, cytosolic 26S proteasome AAA-ATPase subunit RPT3, and probable mitochondrial-processing peptidase subunit beta were down-regulated (Table CITATION) suggesting that proteolytic processes might be altered by BFA. Nevertheless, other proteolytic routes, for example, those depending on calpain, cannot be ruled out in this study. In this respect, we have found PEST sequence as a signal peptide for degradation by both proteasome and calpain routes in four down-regulated proteins (Table CITATION).
!~MM~! A. thaliana L. seedlings (ecotype Columbia) were grown on vertically oriented Phytagel square plates containing 1/2 Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium (pH 5.7) (16 h light/8 h dark; 22 °C) for 10 days. Seedlings were surface-treated with liquid 1/2 MS-media containing 50 μM BFA (dissolved in dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO), final concentration 0.3%) for 2 h. As controls, plants were treated with a mock solution containing 1/2 MS medium and the same final concentration of DMSO. Roots were quickly dissected and harvested for protein extraction. Stably transformed Arabidopsis lines carrying constructs 35S::GFP:Profilin2,CITATION 35S::GFP:FABD2,CITATION and binary vector pBIN-m-gfp5-HDELCITATION were used for in vivo visualization of profilin 2, actin cytoskeleton, and ER in Arabidopsis root cells upon BFA treatments. Roots were homogenized to a fine powder using mortar and pestle in the presence of liquid nitrogen. Phenol extraction was used for total protein extraction according to a modified method of Hurkman and Tanaka.CITATION The detailed description of the protein extraction is provided in CITATION. The pellet was resuspended in rehydration buffer (8 M urea; 2 M thiourea; 0.32 M CHAPS; 2% (v/v) Triton X-100), gently vortexed, and incubated for 1 h at room temperature. Afterward, the protein solution was centrifuged at 10 000g for 10 min to remove insoluble material. The protein concentration was measured using Bio-Rad Protein Assay (Bio-Rad). The protein samples (50 μg) were resolved using two-dimensional electrophoresis as described in CITATION. The gels were stained by Bio-Safe coomassie brilliant blue staining solution (Bio-Rad) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Gels were scanned using a densitometer (GS-800, Bio-Rad) and analyzed using program PD-Quest 8.0 (Bio-Rad). At least three independent biological extracts were used for analysis. The spot intensities were normalized according to total density in the gel images. After automated detection and matching, manual editing was carried out. One-way ANOVA statistical analysis was performed with a 95% significance level to determine which proteins were differentially expressed between the control and BFA-treated samples. Spots showing statistically significant (p ≤ 0.05) expression difference were selected and manually picked for digestion and identification. The trypsin digestion was performed as described by Hajduch et al.CITATION The peptide mix was extracted from gel plugs using 100 mL of extraction solution (60% [v/v] acetonitrile (ACN), 1% [v/v] formic acid), and spotted onto an anchor chip target (Bruker Daltonics) using the dried droplet method.CITATION As energy absorbing molecule (matrix), we used α-cyano-4-hydroxycinnamic acid (2 mg/mL in 50% ACN containing 0.2% trifluoroacetic acid). Mass spectrometry analysis was performed using a MALDI-TOF-TOF (Ultraflex II, Bruker Daltonics). MS-mode acquisition (1000−4000 Da) consisted of 150 laser shots averaged from 5 sample positions. From each full scan, the top 10 peaks were used for subsequent MS/MS analysis. Peptide fragmentation was performed using collision induced dissociation and 250 laser shots from 5 sample positions were summed up for each parent ion. Data processing of raw spectra was performed using Bruker software (Flex analysis 2.4 and BioTools 3.1). Mascot search (Mascot Server 2.2.03, release: June 2007) was conducted using a MS tolerance of 100 ppm, and a MS/MS tolerance of 0.7 Da. One miscleavage was allowed. Carbamidomethylation was chosen as global modification, while oxidation (H, W, M) and phosphorylation (S, T, Y) were used as variable modifications. The data were matched against Swiss-Prot database version 54.6 (from 04.12.2007), containing 29 315 entries. As Mascot result parameters, we chose standard scoring and a significance threshold of p < 0.05 for protein/peptide identification. The protocol used for in-solution trypsin digestion of proteins was adapted mainly from the method described by Donaldson et al.CITATION Briefly, the protein precipitate was resuspended in 6 M urea. Prior to digestion, a total amount of 100 μg of protein was subjected to reduction and alkylation by addition of 10 μL of 50 mM dithiothreitol (DTT) followed by 11 μL of 100 mM iodacetamide. The mixture was incubated at room temperature for 1 h for each reagent. To prevent subsequent formation of disulfide bonds, an additional 10 μL of 50 mM DTT was added to the protein solution. Urea concentration was lowered to 1 M by addition of Milli-Q water. Proteins were digested with 20 μL of trypsin (0.1 μg/μL) at 37 °C overnight. Then, the digestion was stopped by the addition of 4 μL of acetic acid. Next, the peptides were desalted using SEP PAK light C18 columns (Waters) according to manufacturer’s instructions. The eluted peptides were vacuum-dried to pellet, stored at −80 °C, and redissolved in 20 μL of 0.1% formic acid, 5% ACN just prior to the 2-D LC−MS/MS analysis. The control and BFA treated samples were spiked with a total of 2.5 pmol and 0.5 pmol of tryptic digest of bovine serum albumin, horse myoglobin, and horse cytochrome C (all Microm), respectively. The liquid chromatography−mass spectrometry analysis was performed using the ProteomeX Workstation (Thermo). It includes the Surveyor auto sampler and the Surveyor HPLC unit coupled directly in line with a LCQ Deca XP Plus-ESI ion trap mass spectrometer, governed by XCALIBUR software (Thermo). The raw data were collected by a previously published methodCITATION optimized for best proteome coverage. The HPLC step consisted of a 2-D LC separation on a strong cation exchange (SCX) column (SCX BioBasic 0.32 × 100 mm), followed by a reverse phase column (BioBasic C18, 0.18 × 100 mm; Thermo Hypersil-Keystone). A flow rate of 3 μL/min was used for both SCX and reverse phase columns. For SCX, salt steps of 0, 10, 15, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 57, 64, 90, and 700 mM ammonium acetate in 5% ACN and 0.1% formic acid were applied. The reverse phase column was eluted by ACN gradient (in 0.1% formic acid) as follows: 5%−30% for 30 min, 30%−65% for 9 min, 95% for 5 min, 5% for 15 min, for a total of 59 min elution and data collection for each of 13 salt steps. The mass spectrometer was programmed to operate in the data dependent mode with dynamic exclusion, and four scan events: one MS scan (m/z range, 300−1700) and three MSMS scans of the three most intense ionized species detected in MS scan in real time. Detailed method parameters are given in CITATION. The triplicate raw files containing the MS and MSMS data for each biological sample were searched using the TurboSEQUEST algorithm of the Bioworks Browser 3.2 EF2 (Thermo) software. Cysteine carbamidomethylation and methionine oxidation were included in the search criteria. The data were matched against both target and decoy databases. The NCBI (www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov) Arabidopsis genus taxonomy referenced protein database (31 913 entries as of January 2008) served as the target database, while its reversed copy served as a decoy database. The unfiltered TurboSEQUEST result (.srf) files were subjected to further validation, statistical and label-free quantitative analysis utilizing two independent software packages: the “in-house” made ProtQuant,CITATION and commercial software ProteoIQ 1.3.01 (Bioinquire). In the case of ProtQuant, the .srf files were converted to .xml files and imported to ProtQuant. Only proteins identified with at least three peptide hits (spectral count) for particular biological sample were considered. TurboSEQUEST cross correlation factors (Xcorr) of all the identified peptides from all three replicates for each protein were summed, and one way ANOVA (p < 0.05) was used to identify statistically significant differences in protein expression between biological samples, according to Nanduri et al.CITATION The results were validated by detecting correct relative amounts for known spiked proteins (see the CITATION). The ProteoIQ (Bioinquire) worked directly with nonfiltered .srf files that were uploaded to the software, which uses spectral counting as a base for relative label-free quantification. The crucial parameters were set as follows: minimum peptide length = 5 amino acids (AAs), maximum protein false discovery rate (FDR) = 5%, minimum protein group probability = 95% (the graphs justifying these parameter values as properly chosen and stringent for high confidence protein identification can be found in CITATION), normalization was based on total spectral count in triplicates of particular biological samples, and only the “Top” proteins (as defined by ProteoIQ, within a protein group, each and every respective peptide could be matched to the top protein) were further considered. A minimum of three spectral counts per protein were required for quantitation. The outputs from the two softwares were compared, and only concurring results are presented in the text. When matches to proteins of identical sequences were found, all are given and indicated as such. In one case, only one representative of the family of proteins of equal function is presented, and the particular protein was selected as one with prevailing name in the database. The presence of secretory signal peptide in the sequence of BFA-altered proteins was examined using SignalP 3.0, a Web-based software analysis programCITATION (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/SignalP). A Wolf Psort predictorCITATION (http://wolfpsort.org/) was used for the prediction of subcellular localization of proteins. In addition, the AA sequence of studied proteins was screened for the presence of PEST sequence using Mobyle, a portal for bioinformatics analysis (http://mobyle.pasteur.fr/cgi-bin/portal.py). For protein extraction, roots from 1−2 weeks old seedlings were homogenized in ice-cold extraction buffer (30 mM Tris at pH 8.3; 150 mM NaCl; 10 mM EDTA; 20% (v/v) glycerol; 2 mM DTT; 1 mM PMSF; protease inhibitor cocktail (Sigma-Aldrich)), and subsequently filtered twice through Miracloth (Calbiochem). To isolate cytosolic and microsomal fractions, the resulting suspension was fractionated by the following centrifugation steps: (i) 15 min at 10 000g resulting in a nuclear/waste sediment and a postnuclear supernatant (PS); (ii) the PS was centrifuged for 60 min at 100 000g (Beckmann L8−70 M ultracentrifuge) resulting in a microsomal pellet and a cytosolic supernatant. The pellet was resuspended in the extraction buffer. Protein extracts were precipitated by methanol and chloroform according to Wessel and FlüggeCITATION and separated by SDS-PAGE (Mini-Protean II cell system, Bio-Rad). Identical protein concentrations were loaded in all experiments. Proteins were transferred to a polyvinylidene difluoride (PVDF) membrane (PeqLab) in a wet tank unit (Bio-Rad) at 100 V for 1.5 h using the transfer buffer, according to Towbin et al.CITATION For immunodetection of protein bands, the membrane was blocked with 6% (w/v) bovine serum albumin (BSA) in Tris-buffer-saline (TBS, 100 mM Tris-HCl; 1.5 mM NaCl; pH 7.4) for 1 h, and subsequently incubated with a primary monoclonal anti-profilin (Arabidopsis) antibody (1:1500, Sigma-Aldrich, P8498) diluted in TBS-T (TBS; 0.1% Tween 20) containing 1% [w/v] BSA at room temperature for 1.5 h or at 4 °C overnight. After washing in TBS-T, the membrane was incubated with a secondary antibody diluted in TBS-T containing 1% [w/v] BSA at room temperature for 1.5 h. Following at least six washing steps, proteins were detected by incubating the membrane in freshly prepared enhanced chemiluminescence (ECL) reagent for 2 min. ECL reagent was prepared using the following solutions: 1 mL of solution A (200 mL of 0.1 M Tris-HCl (pH 8.6); 50 mg of Luminol (Sigma-Aldrich)), 100 μL of solution B (11 mg of para-Hydroxycoumarin acid (Sigma-Aldrich) in 10 mL of DMSO), and 0.3 μL of H2O2 (37%). Luminescence was detected using Hyperfilm ECL (Amersham) in a dark room. Secondary antibody was anti-mouse IgG conjugated with horse radish peroxidase (diluted 1:2000; Cell Signaling Technology). For microscopy, plants were transferred to a drop of 1/4 MS medium on a glass slide and covered with a coverslip. To perform BFA treatments, the plants were incubated for 2 h in a drop of 1/4 MS medium containing 50 μM of BFA prior to microscopic analysis. For visualization of PM and endosomes, the medium was supplemented with FM4-64 (dilution 1:2000) in the respective experiment. Microscopic analysis was performed using Olympus FV1000 and Zeiss LSM 710 upright confocal laser scanning microscopes. All images were acquired with 60× and 63× objectives. GFP was excited at 488 nm, and detected between 505−530 nm. Fluorescent vital dye FM4-64 was excited at 488 nm and detected at 650−750 nm. To avoid unspecific detection, all images were captured using line-sequential scanning mode. Postprocessing of images was done with the aid of Olympus software FV1000 (Ver.1.7a), Zeiss ZEN software (Ver.2010a), Image J 1.38x, Photoshop 6.0/CS, Microsoft PowerPoint, and OpenOffice applications. Root tips of Arabidopsis (control and BFA-treated for 2 h) were fixed using a high-pressure freeze fixation device HPM010 (Bal-Tec, Balzers, Liechtenstein), cryosubstituted at −80 °C, and embedded in Lowicryl HM20 (Polysciences, Warrington, PA). Ultrathin sections were contrasted with uranyl acetate, and examined with an LEO 912AB electron microscope (Zeiss AG, Oberkochen).
