!~ABS~!  The trans Golgi network (TGN) of plant cells sorts and packages Golgi products into secretory (SV) and clathrin‐coated (CCV) vesicles. We have analyzed of TGN cisternae in Arabidopsis root meristem cells by cell fractionation and electron microscopy/tomography to establish reliable criteria for identifying TGN cisternae in plant cells, and to define their functional attributes. Transformation of a trans Golgi cisterna into a Golgi‐associated TGN cisterna begins with cisternal peeling, the formation of SV buds outside the plane of the cisterna and a 30–35% reduction in cisternal membrane area. Free TGN compartments are defined as cisternae that have detached from the Golgi to become independent organelles. Golgi‐associated and free TGN compartments, but not trans Golgi cisternae, bind anti‐RabA4b and anti‐phosphatidylinositol‐4 kinase (PI‐4K) antibodies. RabA4b and PI‐4Kβ1 localize to budding SVs in the TGN and to SVs en route to the cell surface. SV and CCV release occurs simultaneously via cisternal fragmentation, which typically yields ∼30 vesicles and one to four residual cisternal fragments. Early endosomal markers, VHA‐a1‐green fluorescent protein (GFP) and SYP61‐cyan fluorescent protein (CFP), colocalized with RabA4b in TGN cisternae, suggesting that the secretory and endocytic pathways converge at the TGN. pi4k1/pi4k2 knockout mutant plants produce SVs with highly variable sizes indicating that PI‐4Kβ1/2 regulates SV size. 
!~RES~! The similarity of Arabidopsis RabA4b to Rab GTPases from yeast and animals, which are known to function in post‐Golgi sorting and recycling pathways, indicated that it too may be involved in membrane‐trafficking events at the TGN CITATION. To characterize the identity of RabA4b‐labeled compartments at a higher level of detail than available from light microscopy, we examined root tip cells of wild‐type Arabidopsis and Arabidopsis stably expressing EYFP‐RabA4b by immuno‐EM. The anti‐RabA4b antibodies specifically labeled tubulovesicular, TGN‐type membrane compartments on the trans side of Golgi stacks (Figure 1A,B), which were also labeled with antibodies that recognize the complex cell wall polysaccharide, xyloglucan (Figure 1C,D). Although many of the anti‐RabA4b‐labeled compartments and vesicles were observed in the vicinity of Golgi stacks, some were located at greater distances and closer to the plasma membrane; occasional vesicles were seen fusing with the plasma membrane (Figure 1G). Antibodies raised against the lipid kinase PI‐4Kβ1, an effector of RabA4b CITATION, are also bound to the same TGN‐type post‐Golgi compartments as the anti‐RabA4b and the CCRC‐M1 (an anti‐xyloglucan monoclonal antibody from the Complex Carbohydrate Research Center, University of Georgia, GA) antibodies (Figure 1E). RabF2a (also known as RHA1) is another Arabidopsis small GTPase that has been localized to multivesicular bodies (MVBs) in ArabidopsisCITATION. In root tip cells, MVBs were often juxtaposed with the TGN. In such TGN/MVB complex structures, RabF2a immunogold particles were always associated with MVBs, and never with TGN cisternae (Figure 1F), indicating that RabA4b and RabF2a are found in different membrane compartments. The immunolabeling experiments confirm that RabA4b and its effector, PI‐4Kβ1, are biochemical markers of TGN cisternae in Arabidopsis and suggest that these proteins could be involved in the assembly of SVs.  [[FIGURE]] Based on the observations that anti‐RabA4b antibodies labeled xyloglucan‐containing budding structures on TGN cisternae, as well as SVs in the process of fusing with the plasma membrane, we hypothesized that this membrane compartment was involved in trafficking of secretory cargoes en route to the plasma membrane. If this were the case, isolated RabA4b‐labeled vesicles should also contain cell wall polysaccharides. Several different monoclonal antibodies that recognize diagnostic epitopes on complex carbohydrates (Carbosource Inc.) were used to identify the membrane fractions on sucrose density gradients, which contained these cell wall polysaccharides (Figure 1H). Odd numbered fractions were analyzed by SDS–PAGE and immunoblot analysis to detect the presence of RabA4b, while even numbered fractions were used for the polysaccharide analysis. To identify the polysaccharides in these fractions, the membranes present in even numbered fractions were reisolated by sedimentation, detergent solubilized, spotted onto nitrocellulose membranes and immunoblotted with monoclonal antibodies CCRC‐M1, ‐M7, ‐M8 and JIM7. The fractionation patterns observed depended upon the presence of membrane‐bounded vesicles, because if detergent was added prior to sedimentation of membranes through the sucrose gradient, polysaccharides were only detected in early (top of the gradient) fractions (not shown). Also, the specificity of the antibodies was confirmed by the detection of polysaccharide epitopes on gum arabic (CCRC‐M8), gum tragacanth (CCRC‐M1 and ‐M8) and purified methyl‐esterified pectin (CCRC‐M7, ‐M8, JIM7, but not CCRC‐M1).  The CCRC‐M1 antibodies primarily recognize terminally fucosylated xyloglucan CITATION, which was present at highest concentrations in fractions 18–22. This pattern essentially parallels the distribution of RabA4b in the protein fractions (Figure 1H) and is consistent with immunogoldlabeling results that localized xyloglucans to trans Golgi and TGN cisternae, and to SVs (Figures 1C,D; CITATION). The CCRC‐M7 antibodies, which recognize the β(1,6)‐galactose chain of rhamnogalacturonan‐I CITATION, and the CCRC‐M8 antibodies, which recognize a distinct epitope on rhamnogalacturonan‐I (Carbosource Inc.), displayed broader fractionation profiles with significant quantities of binding observed in fractions 12–22 (Figure 1H). The JIM7 antibody binding, which signals the presence of methyl‐esterified pectins CITATION, was highest in fractions 12–14, with a second peak in fraction 20. These results indicate that vesicular structures containing both RabA4b and xyloglucan represent major fractions of membranes containing either of these two components. In addition, the observation that RabA4b‐containing membranes most closely matched the sedimentation profiles of xyloglucan‐containing membranes is consistent with earlier observations that the glucan backbone and terminal fucosylation of this class of polysaccharides occurs in trans Golgi and TGN cisternae, while pectic polysaccharides are generated by enzymes located in late cis‐, medial‐ and trans Golgi cisternae CITATION.  Using immuno‐EM techniques, we showed that RabA4b labels TGN compartments closely associated with Golgi stacks (Figure 1A,C and G), as well as structurally related compartments at variable distances from Golgi stacks (Figure 1B,D and G). In confocal micrographs, compartments fluorescently labeled with TGN markers have been seen to be paired with Golgi stacks or spatially separated from any Golgi stacks CITATION. To determine the extent to which Golgi‐associated and detached, free TGN cisternae/compartments share common structural features, we have characterized their 3‐D architecture by electron tomography analysis of high‐pressure frozen and freeze‐substituted cells. The 3‐D resolution of EM tomography is ∼4 nm in the x‐ and y‐axes and 6–8 nm in the z‐axis CITATION. This is a 50‐ to 100‐fold improvement in resolution compared to regular confocal laser scanning microscopy, which has a resolution of ∼200 nm in the x‐ and y‐axes and 500–800 nm in the z‐axis CITATION.  In this study, we have exploited the higher resolution of electron tomography to structurally distinguish trans Golgi cisternae (Figures 2–5), Golgi‐associated TGN cisternae (Figures 2–5), free TGN cisternae (Figures 2 and 3) and fragmenting free TGN cisternae in the process of releasing their SVs and CCVs (Figure 3). In addition, due to the quantifiable nature of the digital electron tomography datasets, we have been able to follow the changes in membrane surface area as the trans Golgi cisternae are converted first to Golgi‐associated and then to free TGN compartments (Figure 4). Finally, by combining electron tomography analysis and immunolabeling of serial thin sections, we have shown that the transformation of a trans Golgi cisterna into a TGN cisterna coincides with the binding of RabA4b and PI‐4Kβ1 proteins to subdomains of the TGN cisternae that give rise to SVs but not to CCVs (Figure 5).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Transformation of a trans‐most Golgi cisterna into a RabA4b‐associated TGN cisterna is accompanied by three structural changes: (i) proliferation of round, secretory‐type vesicle buds along the periphery that are not confined to the plane of the original trans Golgi cisterna (Figures 2 and 5), (ii) a 30–35% reduction in cisternal membrane area (Figure 4) and (iii) the presence of a flattened membrane domain that corresponds to the site of attachment of the TGN cisterna to the trans‐most Golgi cisterna (Figure 2). SVs, CCVs and coat protein Ib (COPIb)‐type vesicles (Figures 2 and 3) were distinguished by the structural criteria detailed by Donohoe et al. CITATION. The formation of budding SVs that are not confined to the plane of the membrane appears to be tightly correlated with the cisternal peeling process (Figure 2B). CCV buds are seen often, but not always, on Golgi‐associated TGN cisternae (Figures 2B and 3H). In contrast, free TGN cisternae always possess CCVs and typically have more CCVs than do the Golgi‐associated TGN cisternae (Figure 3B,H).  Free TGN cisternae also have more budding SVs than Golgi‐associated TGN cisternae (Figures 2E and 3B). Furthermore, as the free TGN cisternae continue to mature and become more grape like in appearance, the forming SVs become more numerous, more clearly defined and more darkly stained (Figures 2E,G and H and 3A,B). They also become smaller, with the budding SVs on free TGN cisternae measuring 52–88 nm in diameter versus 83–107 nm for the SVs on Golgi‐associated TGN cisternae. In contrast, we did not detect any differences in diameters of the budding CCVs (∼35 nm).  COPIb‐type vesicles, which can be identified based on their size (∼45 nm) and the dark staining of their contents CITATION, are also seen in close proximity to Golgi‐associated TGN cisternae (Figure 2F), but not around free TGN cisternae. A functional role of these COPIb vesicles in recycling membrane from Golgi‐associated TGN to trans Golgi cisternae is suggested by the finding that the formation of Golgi‐associated TGN cisternae from trans‐most Golgi cisternae involves a 30–35% reduction in surface area (Figure 4). In contrast, no consistent reduction in the surface area of the free TGN cisternae was observed.  Another variable in free TGN architecture relates to the ratio of SVs to CCVs (Figure 3B,H). In meristematic root tip cells of Arabidopsis, the SV to CCV ratio can vary from 5:1 to 1:4, even on free TGN compartments within the same cell. SV‐rich free TGN cisternae are seen more frequently than CCV‐rich cisternae in Arabidopsis root meristem cells. The former resembles TGN cisternae which have been described previously CITATION, whereas the CCV‐rich free TGN cisternae resemble structures known as a ‘partially coated reticulum’CITATION, CITATION.  RabA4b antibodies label both Golgi‐associated and free TGN compartments to similar extents, but they do not label trans Golgi cisternae (Figures 1A–D, 5 and 6). To further characterize the TGN structures to which the anti‐RabA4b antibodies bind, immunogold‐labeled serial thin sections were analyzed by electron tomography. Figure 5 (A–G) depicts tomographic slice images of three consecutive anti‐RabA4b‐labeled sections. In these images, the TGN membranes are clearly resolved and a majority of the immunogold particles are seen close to SV‐type budding domains that possess an ∼5‐nm thick, darkly staining coat (arrowheads in Figures 5D–G and S1). This coat resembles the coat of SVs described by Donohoe et al. CITATION, but the staining pattern differs slightly due to the effects of the presence or absence of osmium tetroxide in the freeze‐substitution medium, and to the variable effects of different embedding media on membrane staining. For ultrastructural studies, the specimens are typically fixed/stained with osmium tetroxide and embedded in Epon resin. For the immunolabeling experiments shown here, osmium tetroxide was omitted and Lowicryl HM20 resin was used CITATION.  [[FIGURE]] To confirm that the RabA4b molecules are associated with budding SVs, we have employed a new imod software program called imodcurvature to identify potential SV‐forming TGN membrane domains based on their 3‐D membrane curvature. Budding SVs on TGN cisternae of root apical meristem cells of Arabidopsis have diameters ranging from 52 to 107 nm (average 69.0 ± 12.1 nm; Figure S2A). In the 3‐D model images of the TGN cisternae shown in Figure 5, the computer‐selected membrane domains with radii of 26–53 nm (half the SV diameters) are colored green, and 14 of the 25 anti‐RabA4b immunogold particles are seen in close proximity to these green membrane domains. Three additional TGN cisternae analyzed in the same manner yielded 65 out of 110 immunogold particles (i.e. ∼60%) adjacent to green membrane‐budding domains, with the remaining particles being associated with TGN membrane regions that possessed more variable curvatures. In contrast, the central flat membranes of early TGN cisternae as well as the membrane domains of forming CCVs were rarely labeled. Together, these results indicate that RabA4b was preferentially associated with SV‐forming sites on TGN membranes, and are consistent with the colocalization of RabA4b with the xyloglucan polysaccharide epitope (Figure 1C,D and H).  Based on a number of recent microscopy studies of several types of plant cells, the TGN has been postulated to function not only in the secretory pathway but also as an early endosomal compartment CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION. The demonstration that RabA4b marks TGN cisternae as well as SVs that contain secretory cargo (Figures 1 and 5) has provided us a means for testing this hypothesis by using double immunogold labeling experiments with the early endosomal marker proteins VHA‐a1‐GFP CITATION and SYP61‐CFP CITATION. To this end, we have probed root meristem cell samples from Arabidopsis expressing VHA‐a1‐GFP or SYP61‐CFP with an anti‐GFP/CFP antibody. GFP/CFP‐specific immunogold particles were seen associated with TGN‐type compartments, but not with Golgi cisternae nor MVBs. When double labeled with the anti‐RabA4b antibody, the GFP/CFP‐specific and the RabA4b‐specific gold particles labeled the same TGN compartments (Figures 6 and S3). Quantitative analyses of the labeling patterns indicated that ∼70% of the VHA‐a1‐GFP detected by anti‐GFP immunolabeling was associated with free TGN cisternae in the vicinity of Golgi stacks and only 30% with the Golgi‐associated TGN cisternae in the VHA‐a1‐GFP cell line (Figures 6A and S3A,B). Such differential labeling was not noticed for SYP61‐CFP in the SYP61‐CFP line of root meristem cells (Figures 6B and S3C,D).  The observation that RabA4b is selectively recruited to emerging SVs on plant TGN compartments (Figure 5) suggests an important regulatory role for RabA4b in the formation and budding of SVs. Examination of transferred DNA (T‐DNA) inserted mutants of RabA4b and of several of the most closely related RabA GTPases did not lead to the identification of plants with obvious developmental defects, perhaps because of the extreme size of the RabA GTPase family in plants, which contains 26 members CITATION, CITATION. However, the loss of function of the RabA4b effector protein, PI‐4Kβ1, and of the highly similar PI‐4Kβ2, resulted in plants with reduced stature and altered root hair morphology, and these changes were associated with defects in TGN compartments CITATION. To further characterize the nature of these defects, we have analyzed high‐pressure frozen cells of the pi4k1/pi4k2 double knockout mutant of Arabidopsis by means of EM tomography. Consistent with our earlier observations CITATION, the TGN cisternae displayed fewer SV‐type budding profiles, but the SV buds that were formed were typically larger and more variable in size (Figure 7A,B,B′ and C). Wild‐type SVs had diameters of 52–107 nm, approximately 20% of the vesicles in cell from the mutant had diameters > 110 nm (Figures 7 and S2B). Budding SV profiles that were larger than normal were observed on both Golgi‐associated and on free TGN compartments (Figure 7B,B′ and C). In contrast, neither the structure nor the average number of CCV buds was affected in mutant plants (Figure 7C).  [[FIGURE]] To determine if the anatomical defects in the pi4k1/pi4k2 double mutants might be caused by a change in cargo content of the SVs, we analyzed the composition of the cell wall polysaccharide cargo molecules in the SVs using the anti‐xyloglucan (CCRC‐M1) antibody (Figure 7D–I). In contrast to wild‐type cells (Figures 1C,D and 7D), the anti‐xyloglucan‐labeled compartments and vesicles of the mutants were, on average, not only much larger but also bound more gold particles (Figure 7E,F). Furthermore, the large SVs were still capable of delivering their cell wall cargo molecules to the cell wall, as evidenced by the wall labeling with the anti‐xyloglucan antibodies (Figure 7F,H and I). Taken together, these results indicate that the loss of PI‐4Kβ1 and PI‐4Kβ2 activities results in pronounced changes in early and late TGN morphology, and in an apparent loss of control over SV size.  As mentioned earlier, the pi4k1/pi4k2 double mutant plants exhibited both a dwarfed growth phenotype and defects in root hair cell expansion, despite the apparent ability of the SVs to deliver their polysaccharide cargo molecules to the cell walls (Figure 7I). To identify the cellular origins of these deficiencies, we examined the anatomy of the root tissues and the ultrastructure of root cells of the mutant plants in greater detail. In wild‐type roots, the cells are organized into regular, concentric layers and are rectangularly shaped (Figure 8A and C), whereas in the pi4k1/pi4k2 double mutant the tissue arrangement is irregular due to the trapezoidal shape and the variable sizes of the cortical, endodermis and columella cells (Figure 8B and D). In addition to the differences in cell expansion, we also observed defects in cytokinesis that resulted in the formation of disrupted walls and of cell wall stubs (Figure 7J,K and Figure 8B, insets). Based on these results, we conclude that while transport of cell wall components to forming or expanding cell walls is not completely abolished, the loss of the RabA4b effector protein activity results in defects in the delivery of cell wall molecules to cell plates and cell walls. Presumably, these defects eventually lead to improper cell division and perturbed cell wall expansion.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~!  Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia (Wt Co) were grown on half‐strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) solid medium (0.6% phytoagar, 1% sucrose, pH 5.9) at 22°C under continuous light before high‐pressure freezing. Unless specified, reagents were purchased from Sigma.  Root tips were excised from 5‐day‐old A. thaliana seedlings in a 150 mm sucrose solution and transferred to a B‐type aluminum planchette (Technotrade International). The root tip samples were then covered with the flat side of another B‐type planchette and were rapidly frozen in a Bal‐Tec HPM 010 high‐pressure freezer (Boeckeler Instruments). After freeze substitution for 5 days at −80°C in anhydrous acetone containing 2% OsO4, the samples were warmed up to room temperature over 2 days (24 h from −80°C to −20°C, 20 h from −20°C to 4°C, 4 h from 4°C to 20°C). After washing 3× with anhydrous acetone, the root tips were embedded in a graduated Epon resin (Ted Pella Inc.) dilution in acetone (5, 15, 25, 50, 75 and 100%) over 3 days. After polymerization in a 60°C oven for 24 h, root tips were sectioned and post‐stained with aqueous 2% uranyl acetate (UA) and Reynolds lead citrate (LC) solution. For immunolabeling experiments, high‐pressure frozen A. thaliana root tips were freeze substituted in anhydrous acetone containing 0.1% UA and 0.25% glutaraldehyde at −90°C for 96 h. The temperature of the freeze‐substitution medium was then increased from −90°C to −50°C over 30 h and were then washed with anhydrous acetone 3× at −50°C. Lowicryl HM20 (Electron Microscopy Sciences) resin embedding was performed by a stepwise increase in resin concentration from 0, 33, 66 to 100% over 48 h at −50°C. HM20 resin was polymerized under ultraviolet (UV) light for 24 h at −50°C. Once completely polymerized, the samples were slowly warmed from −50°C to 20°C over 4 h. Freeze substitution and Lowicryl resin embedding were carried out in the Leica AFS machine (LeicaUSA).  Wild‐type (Columbia ecotype) A. thaliana were used for membrane fractionation. Seedlings were grown in liquid culture (1/4× MS) on a shaker under continuous light conditions for 2–3 weeks. Root cell membranes were isolated and prepared as described by Sanderfoot et al. CITATION, except that 20% w/v sucrose was used in the grinding buffer. Clear, postnuclear supernatant was layered over a 20–60% continuous sucrose gradient and centrifuged for 16 h in an SW41 swinging bucket rotor at 20 000 g at 4°C. Twenty‐four 0.5‐mL fractions were collected from the top of the gradient. Odd numbered fractions were precipitated with methanol, solubilized in SDS sample buffer, separated on SDS–PAGE and transferred to nitrocellulose blots for immunodetection with specific antibodies against RabA4b. Membranes present in even numbered fractions were reisolated by sedimentation, detergent solubilized in Triton‐X‐100, spotted onto nitrocellulose membranes and immunoblotted with monoclonal antibodies M1, M7, M8 and JIM7 (Carbosource Inc.). Control polysaccharide fractions composed of gum arabic, gum tragacanth and pectin were obtained from Sigma‐Aldrich.  To visualize cells in A. thaliana roots, seedlings were grown in liquid culture (1/4× MS) on a shaker under continuous light conditions for 7–10 days. Seedlings were stained with 0.1 mg/mL propidium iodide in distilled H20 for 5–15 min at room temperature prior to imaging. Imaging was performed on a confocal microscope (Zeiss LSM 510) with a 40× apochromat lens (numerical aperture 1.2) using appropriate fluorescent filters.  Eighty‐ to 120‐nm thick sections of Lowicryl HM20‐embedded A. thaliana root tip samples were mounted on gold slot grids coated with formvar (Electron Microscopy Sciences). The sections were blocked with 2% non‐fat dried milk and 0.2% Tween‐20 in PBS for 30 min. After blocking, the sections were probed with antibodies (RabA4b, PI‐4Kβ, CCRC‐M1 and RabF2a, which were diluted 1:50, 1:20, 1:25 and 1:50 in PBS with 1% non‐fat milk and 0.2% Tween‐20, respectively) for 1 h at room temperature. After washing thoroughly in PBS with 1% non‐fat milk and 0.2% Tween‐20, the sections were incubated with the secondary antibody [anti‐rabbit immunoglobulin G (IgG) or anti‐mouse IgG, diluted 1:25 in PBS with 0.5% non‐fat milk and 0.2% Tween‐20] conjugated to 15‐nm gold particles (Ted Pella) for 1 h. For double immunogold labeling of GFP/CFP with RabA4b, GFP antibody (monoclonal mouse antibody, catalogue number SC9996; Santa Cruz Biotechnology) was used; according to the product manual, this antibody detects GFP and other GFP variants. The antibody dilutions were 1:50 for both RabA4b and GFP/CFP. The primary antibodies were labeled with anti‐rabbit IgG (10 nm) and anti‐mouse IgG (15 nm) secondary antibody conjugated to gold particles. The immunolabeled sections were post‐stained with 2% UA and Reynolds lead citrate, coated with a layer of formvar film and observed with a Philips CM10 or Hitachi H‐7000 electron microscope operated at 80 or 100 kV.  Sample sectioning, post‐staining and acquisition of tilting series images were performed as described by Segui‐Simarro et al. CITATION. In brief, 250‐nm thick sections of Epon‐embedded samples or 120‐nm thick immunogold‐labeled HM20‐embedded samples were post‐stained with UA and LC, and tilting series images of the sections were taken either at 15 400 × or at 17 000× from +60° to −60° with 1.5° increments using a Gatan Megascan 795 digital camera (Gatan) around two orthogonal axes. Tomograms were reconstructed using the etomo interface of the imod software package (Boulder Laboratory of 3D Electron Microscopy of the Cell, University of Colorado at Boulder). Tomogram analysis and 3‐D model reconstruction were performed with the 3dmod graphic module of the imod software package. Vesicle diameter measurement was carried out as described in Donohoe et al. CITATION. The surface areas of trans Golgi and early TGN cisternae were determined from their 3‐D models using the imodinfo command of the imod software package.  TGN membranes with 3‐D curvatures in the range of 26–53 nm were identified and differentiated by the imodcurvature command. The default parameters of the command were used with the exceptions of the RadiusCriterion (26–53 nm), ZrangeToFit (35 contours) and WindowLength (80 pixels). Detailed explanations of imodcurvature can be found in the imod command list posted in http://www.bio3d.colorado.edu/imod/doc/program_listing.html. 
