!~ABS~! In eukaryotic cells, PtdIns 3,5-kinase, Fab1/PIKfyve produces PtdIns (3,5) P2 from PtdIns 3-P, and functions in vacuole/lysosome homeostasis. Herein, we show that expression of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) FAB1A/B in fission yeast (Schizosaccharomyces pombe) fab1 knockout cells fully complements the vacuole morphology phenotype. Subcellular localizations of FAB1A and FAB1B fused with green fluorescent protein revealed that FAB1A/B-green fluorescent proteins localize to the endosomes in root epidermal cells of Arabidopsis. Furthermore, reduction in the expression levels of FAB1A/B by RNA interference impairs vacuolar acidification and endocytosis. These results indicate that Arabidopsis FAB1A/B functions as PtdIns 3,5-kinase in plants and in fission yeast. Conditional knockdown mutant shows various phenotypes including root growth inhibition, hyposensitivity to exogenous auxin, and disturbance of root gravitropism. These phenotypes are observed also in the overproducing mutants of FAB1A and FAB1B. The overproducing mutants reveal additional morphological phenotypes including dwarfism, male-gametophyte sterility, and abnormal floral organs. Taken together, this evidence indicates that imbalanced expression of FAB1A/B impairs endomembrane homeostasis including endocytosis, vacuole formation, and vacuolar acidification, which causes pleiotropic developmental phenotypes mostly related to the auxin signaling in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! In fission yeast, ste12+ gene encodes PtdIns3P 5-kinase, known as SpFab1p. The ste12Δ mutant in fission yeast shows an aberrant swollen vacuole phenotype resembling that of yeast (CITATION). Arabidopsis FAB1A and FAB1B share 14.2% amino acid sequence homology with SpFab1p. To test whether FAB1A and FAB1B have an ability to function as PtdIns3P 5-kinase in fission yeast, we expressed Arabidopsis FAB1A and FAB1B in the ste12Δ mutant under control of the fission yeast nmt promoter. The wild-type cell-transformed pREP41 empty vector had many small vacuoles (Fig. 1, A and B), but the ste12 cell-transformed pREP41 empty vector had a few enlarged vacuoles (Fig. 1, C and D). FAB1A on pREP41 was introduced into ste12 cells (Fig. 1, E–H). When FAB1A was expressed under control of the thiamine-repressible nmt1 promoter in pREP41, in the ste12 mutant, the morphology of the vacuoles changed from an enlarged shape (Fig. 1, G and H) to normal small vacuoles (Fig. 1, E and F) like those in wild-type cells. The ste12 cells conditionally expressing FAB1B also had small vacuoles (Fig. 1, I and J) similar to those in wild type, although ste12 cells, which repress expression of FAB1B by adding 10 μg/mL thiamine, had abnormal enlarged vacuoles (Fig. 1, K and L). When C-terminal GFP-fused FAB1A and FAB1B (designated as FAB1A-GFP and FAB1B-GFP, respectively) were expressed in ste12Δ cells, the enlarged vacuolar morphology of ste12Δ cells changed to small vacuoles like those observed in wild-type cells (Fig. 1, M and Q), indicating that both FAB1A-GFP (Fig. 1 M–P) and FAB1B-GFP (Fig. 1, Q–T) fully complemented the ste12 phenotype of the vacuolar morphology. The GFP fluorescence of these fusion proteins was merged completely with FM4-64-labeled fragmented vacuoles (Fig. 1, N–P and R–T), indicating that ectopically expressed FAB1A-GFP and FAB1B-GFP localized on the vacuolar membrane of fission yeast. These data illustrate that Arabidopsis FAB1A and FAB1B function as PtdIns 3P-5 kinase in fission yeast. [[FIGURE]] To determine the subcellular localizations of FAB1A/B proteins, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing GFP-fused FAB1A or FAB1B (FAB1A-GFP, FAB1B-GFP) under control of their native promoters. Then, we observed the subcellular localizations of these proteins in root cells. In epidermal cells in the root differentiation zone, the fluorescence of FAB1A-GFP localized to punctate structures throughout the cytosol (Fig. 2A). Most of these punctate structures overlapped with FM4-64-labeled endosomal compartments, implying that FAB1A-GFP localized to the endosomes of root epidermal cells (Fig. 2, B and C). In addition, FAB1B-GFP exhibited identical localization patterns to those of FAB1A-GFP (Fig. 2, E–G). These data revealed that FAB1A and FAB1B localize to the endosomes in Arabidopsis root epidermal cells. [[FIGURE]] In the previous study, the functions of FAB1A and FAB1B genes were analyzed using the T-DNA insertional mutation lines of both genes in Arabidopsis. Although genetic transmission analysis revealed a failure in generating the double-mutant lines because of inviability of the pollens carrying mutations in both FAB1A and FAB1B genes, the single-homozygous mutants of both genes exhibited a weak morphological phenotype in which the leaves are curled slightly (CITATION). To examine the physiological function of FAB1A/B in vegetative tissues, we generated conditional knockdown mutant plants using the amiRNA technique (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). AmiRNAs, which are normally absent in plants, are artificially designed 12-mer single-stranded RNAs. The amiRNAs specifically down-regulate not only a single target, but also multiple protein-coding genes having similar sequences (CITATION; CITATION). We computed optimal amiRNA sequences for only attenuating FAB1A and FAB1B expression simultaneously using software (WMD version 3; http://wmd.weigelworld.org/). The target amiRNA sequences were introduced into the pER8 vector, which can induce the gene expression under control of the artificial 17-β-estradiol-inducible promoter (CITATION). The amiRNA transgenic lines were grown for 5 d on one-half-strength Murashige and Skoog agar plates in the presence or absence of 10 μm estradiol. Then the root lengths were measured. Decreased expression of FAB1A and FAB1B transcripts in the transgenic plants grown in the presence of estradiol was confirmed using semiquantitative reverse transcription (RT)-PCR. In the presence of estradiol, the expressions of FAB1A and FAB1B were attenuated in transgenic lines 41 and 42. Particularly, the expression levels of both genes were strongly inhibited in line 42 (Fig. 3A). [[FIGURE]] In the presence of estradiol, the root lengths in lines 41 and 42 were considerably shortened (Fig. 3, B and C). In particular, the root growth inhibition in the presence of estradiol was significant in line 42, suggesting that the decreased expression of FAB1A and FAB1B correlated with the root growth inhibition in an expression dose-dependent manner in Arabidopsis. The lengths of root hairs in line 42 were also shortened considerably compared with the uninduced condition (Supplemental Fig. S1). No growth inhibitions of root and root hair were observed in the control plant, which exogenously expressed GFP in the presence of estradiol (Fig. 3D; Supplemental Fig. S1). To elucidate the effect of overexpression of FAB1A/B genes in root growth, we generated transgenic plants (43 lines for iFAB1A-OX and 34 lines for iFAB1B-OX) that were able to induce the expression of FAB1A or FAB1B in the presence of estradiol. We chose one overexpression line from each gene and analyzed whether root growth inhibition occurred when each gene was overexpressed. When both FAB1A and FAB1B were overexpressed in the presence of estradiol (Fig. 4A), the roots of FAB1A-expressed or FAB1B-expressed plants were shortened considerably (Fig. 4, B and C), indicating that overexpression of FAB1A/B created an inhibitory effect on the root elongation similar to that caused by the loss of function of the genes. Similar to the case of the knockdown lines, the growth inhibition of root hairs in FAB1A-overexpressed or FAB1B-overexpressed plants induced by estradiol was also observed (Supplemental Fig. S1). [[FIGURE]] If the expression levels of FAB1A and FAB1B affect root elongation, then it might be expected that shoot development is also inhibited by overexpression of these genes. To test this possibility, the degrees of growth of several constitutive overexpression lines of FAB1A with various expression levels were compared. As shown in Figure 5, A and B, the shoots of the constitutive overexpression lines of FAB1A (cFAB1A-OX) were dwarfed increasingly as the expression level of the gene increased. A similar dwarf phenotype was also observed in constitutive FAB1B overexpression lines (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Additionally, of the 39 constitutive overexpression lines of FAB1A, five exhibited a sterility phenotype (data not shown). It was reported previously that crossing the mutant lines of FAB1A and FAB1B produced no homozygous double-mutant seeds because of a maturation defect in fab1a/b double-homozygous mutant pollens (CITATION). Therefore, it is likely that the sterility phenotype of the constitutive overexpression lines of FAB1A/B occurred for the same reason. To test the viability of pollen grains, we measured the number of living pollen via the fluorescein diacetate (FDA) staining method in several cFAB1B-OX lines with a severe sterile phenotype (Fig. 5D); the expression levels of these lines were examined using RT-PCR (Fig. 5C). The pollen viability was decreased depending on the expression level of FAB1B, indicating that overexpression of FAB1 negatively affected the pollen viability (Fig. 5, C and D). The viability of pollen of cFAB1A-OX was also correlated with the expression levels of FAB1A (data not shown). CITATION reported that pollens of fab1a/fab1b double-homozygous mutant display an abnormal vacuolar phenotype in the late pollen development. We examined whether the inviability of pollens in FAB1A/B overexpression lines was caused by abnormal vacuole formation during pollen development by the neutral red staining. After staining, the vast majority of pollens had aberrant large vacuoles in both FAB1A and FAB1B overexpression lines, although pollen grains from wild-type plant showed numerous small vacuoles with uniform sizes (Supplemental Fig. S2), indicating that inviability of pollens in the overexpression lines resulted from the vacuole formation defect that is also observed in fab1a/fab1b double-homozygous mutant pollens. Typical features of Fab1p/PIKfyve mutants in yeasts and animals are defective in vacuole acidification, fluid phase endocytosis, and formation of normal vacular/lysosomal structures (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To elucidate whether the cellular phenotypes of knockdown and overexpressing mutants of FAB1A/B resemble those in yeast and animal cells, we assessed vacuole acidification and endocytosis using an acidification marker (acridine orange) and a fluorescent endocytosis marker (FM4-64). Results show that conditional knockdowns of FAB1A and FAB1B (Fig. 6B), overexpression of FAB1A (Fig. 6D) or FAB1B (Fig. 6F) severely impaired the acidification of the central vacuoles compared with noninduced plants (Fig. 6, A, C, and E). However the punctate structures inside the cells were still acidified in the presence of estradiol in these mutants. Probably, these punctate structures are the endosomes (Fig. 6, B, D, and F). [[FIGURE]] Endocytosis of FM4-64 was severely delayed in the presence of estradiol (Supplemental Fig. S3). After 1 min labeling, fluorescence of FM4-64 was observed within the inside of the root cells (Supplemental Fig. S3A), although these intracellular structures were never observed in the presence of estradiol (Supplemental Fig. S3B). After 120 min in the mutant cells, the endosomes were labeled but the vacuolar membrane was not labeled yet in the presence of estradiol (Supplemental Fig. S3F), although the vacuolar membranes of the control cells were fully labeled with the dye (Supplemental Fig. S3E). These results show that the cellular phenotypes of Arabidopsis fab1 mutants are similar to those in other eukaryotic cells. Reportedly, both fab1a/fab1a and fab1b/fab1b double-homozygous mutant lines revealed a leaf-curling phenotype in rosette leaves (CITATION). This leaf-curling phenotype is known as a typical phenotype of the auxin-resistant mutants in Arabidopsis (CITATION). Therefore, we investigated whether the FAB1A/B knockdown and overexpression mutants can be expected to alter the sensitivity to exogenous auxin. First, we investigated auxin-dependent lateral root formation in these mutants, which is a typical auxin-responsive phenotype in Arabidopsis. The 4-d-old seedlings grown on one-half-strength Murashige and Skoog agar plate were transferred on one-half-strength Murashige and Skoog plates with or without 0.1 μm 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). After day five, the numbers of lateral roots of the mutants were counted. In the absence of estradiol, the lateral roots of the amiRNA plant (line 42 in Fig. 3) increased when 0.1 μm 2,4-D was added to the medium, indicating that the transgenic plant is sensitive to auxin when the gene expressions of FAB1A/B were not inhibited. However, in the presence of estradiol, the addition of 2,4-D did not produce additional lateral roots (Fig. 7A), indicating that sensitivity to auxin in this line decreased strongly when the expressions of FAB1A/B were inhibited. Similarly, in the presence of estradiol, the induction of the lateral roots in the FAB1A or FAB1B overexpression lines was reduced significantly with the addition of 0.1 μm 2,4-D, implying that each overexpression line became less sensitive to auxin (Fig. 7, B and C). The induction of the lateral roots in the mock control, the inducible GFP expression line (ER8-GFP), with 0.1 μm 2,4-D was unaffected by the presence of estradiol (Fig. 7D). [[FIGURE]] Next, we tested whether the root gravitropic response was changed when the expressions of FAB1A and FAB1B were increased or decreased conditionally. The transgenic plants were grown on horizontal one-half-strength Murashige and Skoog plates with or without 17-β-estradiol; then the plates were rotated 90°. Their angle realignments were measured after 24 h. In the amiRNA lines (lines 41 and 42), treatment with 10 μm estradiol interfered strongly with the gravitropic response; particularly, the gravitropic response in line 42 was severely impaired, suggesting that root gravitropism is inhibited dose dependently (Fig. 8, A–D). [[FIGURE]] Similarly, conditional overexpression lines of FAB1A and FAB1B revealed the root gravitropic phenotype in the presence of estradiol (Fig. 8, E–H). From these data, we concluded that auxin signaling is inhibited in both the loss-of-function and gain-of-function mutations in FAB1A/B. The constitutive overexpression lines of FAB1A and FAB1B showed abnormal phenotypes in flower and leaf organ morphology. The phenotypes were categorized into six typical types based on morphology including an ovule-like structure that appeared inside of a curled sepal (Fig. 9A), sepals with a carpel-like structure (Fig. 9B), ovule-like structures in a curled leaf (Fig. 9C), a stamen fused to the sepal (Fig. 9D), papilla that emerged on the tip of the stamen (Fig. 9E), and three flowers branching from a single place (Fig. 9F). The abnormal morphology in flowers of cFAB1B-OX lines resembled that in the cFAB1A-OX lines (data not shown). These floral phenotypes suggest that floral organ identity genes might be misregulated dose dependently in the FAB1A/B gain-of-function mutants. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) ecotype Columbia was used for all experiments described herein. Plants were grown under white light with 16-h-light and 8-h-dark cycles at 22°C. Arabidopsis cDNAs were synthesized using AMV reverse transcriptase (Takara) from total RNA isolated from Arabidopsis seedlings using an RNeasy mini kit (Qiagen Inc.). The open reading frames of FAB1A (At4g33240) and FAB1B (At3g14270) were amplified using PCR with KOD-FX DNA polymerase (Toyobo Co.) with Arabidopsis cDNAs as a template with appropriate primers. The amplified fragments were subcloned into pENTR (Invitrogen Corp.). Then the inserted fragments were verified with sequencing. The upstream untranslated regions of FAB1A (1,787 bp) and FAB1B (3,166 bp) were amplified from the Arabidopsis genome. Then each amplified upstream region was fused into each cDNA construct in pENTR to generate own-promoter-driven FAB1A/B cDNA constructs. The constructs were transferred into a binary vector, pGWB504 (CITATION), using the Gateway cloning method to generate C-terminally GFP-fused constructs. The constructs were designated, respectively, as FAB1A/pGWB504 and FAB1B/pGWB504. For constructing vectors for the constitutive and conditional expression of FAB1A/B, FAB1A/B full-length cDNAs were subcloned, respectively, into pGWB502 (CITATION) and pER8 (CITATION) to generate FAB1A/pGWB502, FAB1B/pGWB502, FAB1A/pER8, and FAB1B/pER8. For generating the amiRNA construct for inhibiting the expressions of FAB1A and FAB1B simultaneously, we designed an optimal amiRNA sequence using software (WMD version 3; http://wmd.weigelworld.org/). The designed target 21-mers amiRNA sequence (5′-TAACTCCATACTGGATCGCAT-3′) was synthesized using the following primers: (miRNA-sense, 5′-gaTAACTCCATACTGGATCGCATtctctcttttgtattcc-3′; miRNA-antisense, 5′-gaATGCGATCCAGTATGGAGTTAtcaaagagaatcaatga-3′; miRNA*-sense, 5′-gaATACGATCCAGTAAGGAGTTTtcacaggtcgtgatatg-3′; miRNA*-antisense, 5′-gaAAACTCCTTACTGGATCGTATtctacatatatattcct-3′; primer-A, 5′-CACCCTGCAAGGCGATTAAGTTGGGTAAC-3′; primer-B, 5′-GCGGATAACAATTTCACACAGGAAACA-3′) according to the method described in CITATION and CITATION. The amplified amiRNA fragment was then introduced into the pER8 vector to generate FAB1A/B-amiRNA/pER8. The transgenic plant conditionally expressing GFP (ER8-GFP) was used as a mock control (CITATION). Constructed plasmids and generating transgenic plants used in this study are listed in Supplemental Table S1. The binary constructs were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 by electroporation; then Arabidopsis wild-type plants (Columbia-0) were transformed by the floral-dipping method (CITATION). Screening of transgenic plants was performed on one-half-strength Murashige and Skoog plates containing 50 μg·mL−1 hygromycin. The names and numbers of generating transgenic plants are also listed in Supplemental Table S1. Fission yeast (Schizaccharomyces pombe), an ste12 mutant, M879-3H (h90 ste12::ura4+ ade6-M210 ura4-D18 leu1; CITATION) was used for this study. The full-length cDNAs of FAB1A and FAB1B were introduced into pREP41 having the thiamine-repressible nmt promoter (CITATION). For induction of Arabidopsis FAB1A/B expression, thiamine was depleted from the medium. Yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) cells were harvested and then labeled with 2 μm of the endocytosis marker, FM4-64 [N-(3-triethyammoniumpropyl)-4-(p-diethylaminophenol) pyridinium dibromide]. Arabidopsis roots were labeled by soaking for 10 min in 2 μm FM4-64 solution. Acridine orange (Sigma-Aldrich Corp.) was added to 5-d-old seedlings of conditional loss-of-function and gain-of-function mutants to a final concentration of 50 μm. After incubation at room temperature in the dark for 100 min, the seedlings were washed twice with water. They were then observed using confocal microscopy. GFP fluorescence signals and differential interference contrast (DIC) images were obtained using a laser-scanning microscope (Eclipse E600; Nikon Instruments Co.) equipped with the C1si ready confocal system (Nikon). The collected images were processed using image analysis software (EZ-C1; Nikon). Pollen viability was assayed by staining pollen grains with 0.5 μg·mL−1 FDA. The pollen vacuoles were visualized by staining with 0.02% (w/v) neutral red in 8% (w/v) Suc. Total RNA was extracted from the transgenic lines. Then RT was performed using reverse transcriptase XL (Takara) using 2 μg of total RNA as a template with an oligo-d(T)20 and random primer mixture for 1 h at 42°C. Of the reaction mixture, 1 μL was taken for a subsequent PCR reaction. The Arabidopsis FAB1A/B and ACTIN-2 (At3g18780) cDNAs were amplified with an annealing temperature of 50°C during 25 cycles. Primer pairs used in the RT-PCR reaction were Fab1A-F (5′-AAGCCAGATACAAGTAAAAGTGGAG-3′) and Fab1A-R (5′-AAACAACTCCTTTCACGACCA-3′) for Fab1A, Fab1B-F (5′-TGGATCAAAACTTGATTGAAGC-3′) and Fab1B-R (5′-ATCCATCACATCACCCAATG-3′) for FAB1B, and ACT2-F (5′-CCGCTCTTTCTTTCCAAGC-3′) and ACT2-R (5′-CCGGTACCATTGTCACACAC-3′) for ACTIN-2. Roots were observed in 5-d-old seedlings grown on one-half-strength Murashige and Skoog agar plates containing 10 μm 17-β-estradiol. Their lengths were measured using image analysis software (ImageJ; National Institutes of Health). Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers NM_119478 and NM_112285. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Fig. S1. Root hair development is inhibited in conditional FAB1A/B-amiRNA, iFAB1A-OX, and iFAB1B-OX mutants. Supplemental Fig. S2. Overexpression of FAB1A or FAB1B inhibits pollen development. Supplemental Fig. S3. Reduction of FAB1A/B expression delays endocytosis. Supplemental Table S1. List of constructs used for this study.
