!~ABS~!  Plasma membrane intrinsic proteins (PIPs) are aquaporins that mediate water transport across the plant plasma membrane (PM). The present work addresses, using Arabidopsis AtPIP2;1 as a model, the mechanisms and significance of trafficking of newly synthesized PIPs from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) to the Golgi apparatus. A functional diacidic export motif (Asp4‐Val5‐Glu6) was identified in the N‐terminal tail of AtPIP2;1, using expression in transgenic Arabidopsis of site‐directed mutants tagged with the green fluorescent protein (GFP). Confocal fluorescence imaging and a novel fluorescence recovery after photobleaching application based on the distinct diffusion of PM and intracellular AtPIP2;1‐GFP forms revealed a retention in the ER of diacidic mutated forms, but with quantitative differences. Thus, the individual role of the two acidic Asp4 and Glu6 residues was established. In addition, expression in transgenic Arabidopsis of ER‐retained AtPIP2;1‐GFP constructs reduced the root hydraulic conductivity. Co‐expression of AtPIP2;1‐GFP and AtPIP1;4‐mCherry constructs suggested that ER‐retained AtPIP2;1‐GFP may interact with other PIPs to hamper their trafficking to the PM, thereby contributing to inhibition of root cell hydraulic conductivity. 
!~RES~! Amino acid sequence analysis of AtPIP2;1 predicts a potential diacidic motif, DVE, at position 4–6 in the N‐terminal tail (see Figure S1). To address its trafficking mechanisms, AtPIP2;1 was fused to the green fluorescent protein (AtPIP2;1‐GFP) and the resulting construct was expressed constitutively in A. thaliana plants under the control of a double enhanced CaMV35S promoter. A series of site‐directed mutations was conducted to investigate the role of the DVE motif in the trafficking of AtPIP2;1‐GFP (Table S1). Substitutions of Asp4 or/and Glu6 by Ala neutralize the DVE diacidic motif to AVE, DVA and AVA sequences, respectively. Substitutions of Asp4 or Glu6 by Glu or Asp, respectively, alter the primary amino acid sequence but maintain the diacidic properties of the sequence.  In an attempt to check the expression of constructs, total proteins of transgenic plantlets were subjected to Western blot analysis with an anti‐GFP antibody. The calculated molecular weight of the constructs is about 57 kD. As shown in Figure S2, we detected a double band with apparent masses of 50 and 55 kD that probably indicates a partial proteolysis of AtPIP2;1‐GFP. Protein extraction performed in the absence of anti‐protease cocktail resulted in a severe degradation (data not shown), indicating that the AtPIP2;1‐GFP proteolysis observed in Western blots occurred at the protein extraction step. Nevertheless, in Figure S2, no free GFP was detected. This result suggested that confocal microscopy observations of GFP signals described later are associated with the expression of AtPIP2;1‐GFP constructs.  Wild‐type (WT) AtPIP2;1‐GFP expression resulted in a homogeneous signal located mostly at the periphery of the cell, consistent with the expected localization of this construct at the PM (Figure 1). In marked contrast, constructs with any mutation at Asp4 or/and Glu6 positions showed a strong GFP‐labelling of intracellular compartments mainly observed as a reticulated network in epidermal cells of roots and hypocotyls (Figure 1) as well as leaves (see Figure 4). We also noticed GFP labelling of fusiform bodies (see Figure S3) CITATION. Such a reticulate network and fusiform body labelling have been extensively described and are associated with the ER compartment CITATION, CITATION. ER‐Tracker dye was previously used as a selective marker for this compartment CITATION. We found that in the root epidermal cells the WT AtPIP2;1‐GFP construct and the ER‐Tracker dye showed only a partial colocalization, whereas an extensive co‐labelling with the dye was observed for the whole set of diacidic mutants (see Figure S4). Co‐expressions of AtPIP2;1‐GFP constructs with YFP‐HDEL, another marker of the ER CITATION, were performed to confirm the nature of the compartment labelled by diacidic mutants of AtPIP2;1‐GFP construct (Figure 2A). In root epidermal cells YFP‐HDEL labelled a perinuclear area and a reticulate network, corresponding to the ER, but also motile dots tentatively identified as Golgi apparatus. Whereas the WT AtPIP2;1‐GFP construct did not colocalize with YFP‐HDEL, the whole set of diacidic mutant constructs showed an overlapping localization pattern. The possible localization of the diacidic mutant constructs in the Golgi apparatus was investigated by means of a Man49‐YFP marker CITATION. Observation of plants co‐expressing this and the diacidic mutant constructs revealed no Golgi colocalization (Figure 2B). As YFP‐HDEL labels both the ER and the Golgi apparatus, whereas Man49‐YFP specifically labels the Golgi apparatus, mutant constructs appear to be strictly localized in the ER. Similar results were also observed for epidermal leaf cells (Figure S5).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In an attempt to estimate the ratio of diacidic mutant constructs between the intracellular compartments and the PM, we made use of the fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP) technique. Using this technique, it was demonstrated that the KAT1 K+ channel, the PMA2 H+‐ATPase, the AtBOR1 boric acid/borate exporter and the AtNIP5;1 boric acid channel, all tagged with fluorescent markers, did not show any evidence for lateral movement or dispersion within the plane of the PM CITATION, CITATION. Similar to this, we observed a low rate of lateral mobility for PIP‐GFP constructs at the PM (data not shown). Interestingly, GFP‐HDEL and GFP‐Calnexin constructs marking the ER allowed us to visualize the high mobility (fast rearrangement) of this organelle CITATION, CITATION. We therefore took advantage of this difference in mobility between fluorescent protein fusions in the PM and in the ER. A region of interest (ROI) was identified in the tangential optical section of epidermal cells expressing WT or mutated AtPIP2;1‐GFP. This ROI was bleached and recovery of fluorescence was monitored after 5 min. In cells expressing the WT AtPIP2;1‐GFP (Figure 3A), fluorescence recovery in the ROI was almost not detectable in the ROI. By contrast, a more pronounced fluorescence recovery was observed in cells expressing diacidic mutant constructs. The ratio of fluorescence intensity of bleached ROI to the neighbouring nonbleached region was used as an estimate of the relative intracellular labelling (Figure 3). Comparison of the fluorescence intensity ratios showed that the WT AtPIP2;1‐GFP construct had significantly lower values than its mutant counterparts. For instance, ratio values of two independent D4A lines were 2.15‐ or 2.56‐fold higher than that of the WT AtPIP2;1‐GFP line. Of the fluorescence ratios of two D4E lines, only one was different from the control. The ratios of fluorescence of D4A‐, E6A‐ and E6D AtPIP2;1‐GFP constructs were similar, and higher than the ratio of either D4A/E6A‐ or D4E AtPIP2;1‐GFP construct. Taken together, these results suggested that independent D4A, E6A and E6D mutations provoked similar and marked intracellular retention of AtPIP2;1‐GFP constructs and also that the D4A/E6A or D4E mutants showed a lesser intracellular accumulation.  [[FIGURE]] This issue was addressed by using cycloheximide, a protein synthesis inhibitor. As a positive control for the effect of cycloheximide, we treated leaves of Arabidopsis plantlets expressing an Aleurain‐to‐GFP fusion (Aleu‐GFP) CITATION, CITATION. After 1.5 h of cycloheximide treatment, the fluorescent signal of Aleu‐GFP in epidermal cells had almost completely vanished (Figure 4). By contrast, the signal of the WT AtPIP2;1‐GFP construct at the periphery of the epidermal cells, previously identified as the PM compartment, was not significantly reduced after either 1.5 or 16 h treatment. Likewise, the whole set of AtPIP2;1‐GFP diacidic mutants did not show any fluorescence decrease even after 16 h of cycloheximide treatment. Yet, cytosolic streaming was observed after such a long treatment, suggesting that the cells were still viable. Similar results were also observed in mature root epidermal cells (data not shown).  The peripheral or intracellular labelling observed with the WT or mutant AtPIP2;1‐GFP constructs after 16 h of cycloheximide treatment suggested that WT and mutant AtPIP2;1‐GFP proteins are highly stable at the cell surface and in the ER, respectively.  Data from the literature indicate possible interactions between PIP1s and PIP2s during trafficking to the PM CITATION, CITATION, CITATION. As more than 70% of the Arabidopsis root hydraulic conductivity (Lpr) is mediated by AtPIP aquaporins CITATION, CITATION, any major localization faults of AtPIPs should impact this parameter. This prompted us to study the effect of ER‐retained AtPIP2;1‐GFP constructs on root water transport. Arabidopsis plants, either untransformed or expressing WT or a mutated form of AtPIP2;1‐GFP, were grown hydroponically and their Lpr was determined by pressure chamber techniques (Figure 5). No significant difference in Lpr was found between untransformed plants and plants expressing WT AtPIP2;1‐GFP. By contrast, plants expressing diacidic mutated forms of AtPIP2;1‐GFP (D4A/E6A and E6D) exhibited 36–45% Lpr reduction when compared to that of the WT form.  [[FIGURE]] To investigate a possible physical interaction between over‐expressed ER‐retained AtPIP2;1‐GFP constructs and endogenous AtPIPs, we studied the effect of these constructs on the trafficking of selected aquaporin isoforms. For this, we co‐expressed WT or diacidic mutant forms of AtPIP2;1‐GFP with either PIP2;1‐mCherry or AtPIP1;4‐mCherry (Figure 6). WT AtPIP2;1‐GFP was observed to colocalize with either AtPIP2;1‐mCherry or AtPIP1;4‐mCherry at the periphery of the cells (Figure 6A,B upper panels). This subcellular localization was attributed to the PM. When co‐expressed with E6D AtPIP2;1‐GFP, AtPIP2;1‐mCherry and AtPIP1;4‐mCherry colocalized in intracellular compartments (Figure 6A,B lower panels). This suggested that the ER‐retained AtPIP2;1‐GFP mutants induced the intracellular retention of both PIP2;1‐mCherry and AtPIP1;4‐mCherry. Next, the specificity of these changes in subcellular localization pattern was checked in similar experiments with plants co‐expressing either WT or mutated AtPIP2;1‐GFP but with the tonoplastic aquaporin AtTIP1;1 fused to mCherry (Figure 6C). AtTIP1;1 fusion to fluorescent proteins localizes to the tonoplast CITATION, CITATION, CITATION. A similar tonoplast localization was established for AtTIP1;1‐mCherry from peripheral staining of the cell with intracellular invaginations that skirted the nucleus. When AtTIP1;1‐mCherry was co‐expressed with WT or the E6D AtPIP2;1‐GFP mutant, the same localization was observed. In particular, AtTIP1;1‐mCherry did not colocalize in perinuclear area with the E6D mutant (Figure 6C). To summarize, this set of data suggested that the expression of an ER‐retained AtPIP2;1‐GFP construct disturbed the trafficking to the PM of fusions of AtPIP2;1 or AtPIP1;4 to fluorescent proteins.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! All plants used in this work are A. thaliana L. (Heyn.) accession Columbia 0. When grown on plates, plants were germinated on half strength Murashige and Skoog (½ MS) medium supplemented with sucrose (10 g/L) and agar (7 g/L; ½ MS agar) CITATION and then incubated in a growth chamber at 70% relative humidity with cycles of 16 h of light (∼150 µE/m2/second) and 8 h of dark at 21°C. When grown on liquid medium, about a hundred of seeds were germinated in an Erlen‐Meyer containing 100 mL ½ MS medium under agitation and continuous illumination (∼150 µE/m2/second) and 24°C. For root water transport measurements, plants were germinated and grown on plates for 10 days before transfer to hydroponic culture, as described in Ref. 64. Plants were further grown for 10–20 days, in a growth chamber at 70% relative humidity with cycles of 16 h of light (180 µE/m2/second) at 22°C and 8 h of dark at 21°C.  Site‐directed mutagenesis of Asp4 or/and Glu6 of AtPIP2;1‐GFP construct were performed by PCR with a fragment of AtPIP2;1 cDNA fused to the GFP (AtPIP2;1‐GFP) sequence as a template. Forward primers listed in Table S1 allowed the introduction of a XhoI restriction site. PCRs were performed with Pfu DNA polymerase (Promega) according to the manufacturer's instructions. After purification (Geneclean Kit II; Q.BIOgene), PCR fragments were digested by XhoI and XbaI and subcloned into the pBluescript vector (Stratagene) under the transcriptional control of the double enhanced CaMV35S promoter and the 3′ end of the pea ribulose‐1,5‐bisphosphate carboxylase small subunit gene (rbcS) CITATION. Next, the expression cassette was cloned into the binary vector pGreenII 0179 CITATION and transferred into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 with pSOUP for Arabidopsis flower dip transformation procedure CITATION.  About 100 mg of fresh tissue were ground until homogeneity in a 1.5 mL tube with a piston in a grinding buffer made of 500 mm sucrose; 10% glycerol; 50 mm NaF; 20 mm EDTA; 20 mm EGTA; 5 mmβ‐glycerophosphate; 1 mm phenanthroline; 0.6% PVP; 10 mm ascorbic acid; 0.5 µg/mL leupeptine; 1 mm PMSF; 5 mm DTT; 1 mm Na2Vanadate; 50 mm Tris–HCl, pH 8. After centrifugation (5 min at 10 000 ×g), the supernatant was subjected to SDS–PAGE on 12% acrylamide gels. After SDS–PAGE, separated proteins were transferred onto PVDF membrane (Immobilon, Millipore) according to the manufacturer's instructions. For the detection of AtPIP2;1‐GFP fusions, anti‐GFP antibody (Invitrogen) was used at a dilution of 1/2000 and performed as described in Ref. CITATION.  Images were captured with an inverted confocal laser‐scanning microscope (Inverse 1 Axiovert 200M Zeiss/LSM 510 META Confocal) with a 40× water immersion or a 63× oil immersion objective. The emitted fluorescence of co‐expressed ‐GFP and ‐YFP constructs was captured by alternately switching the 488 and 514 nm excitation lines of an argon ion laser using the multitrack facility of the microscope and the emission fingerprinting mode of the LSM 510 META confocal. The emitted fluorescence of co‐expressed ‐GFP and ‐mCherry constructs was captured by alternately switching the 488 and 543 nm excitation lines. The emitted fluorescence of plants expressing GFP constructs and stained with ER‐Tracker™ Blue‐White DPX (Molecular Probes) was captured by alternately switching the 488 and the 405 nm lines of an argon ion laser and a blue diode laser, respectively.  The recovery of fluorescence was measured by means of Image J software (Rasband W., NIH) which allows the measurement of the mean grey value of a ROI.  Confocal observations were performed on epidermal hypocotyl and primary root (about 1 cm distance from apex) of transgenic plantlets cultivated for ∼10 days.  Hydrostatic water transport in root systems excised from plants grown in hydroponics was measured essentially as described elsewhere CITATION, CITATION. 
