!~ABS~! Following the endosymbiotic acquisition of mitochondria by eukaryotic cells, most of the genes in this organelle were transferred to the nucleus. To maintain mitochondrial biogenesis and function, nuclear and mitochondrial genomes require regulated and coordinated expression. In plant organelles, nuclear-encoded proteins targeted to the organelles control posttranscriptional and posttranslational mechanisms. Pentatricopeptide repeat (PPR) proteins are good candidates to play such regulatory roles. Here, we identify PNM1 (for PPR protein localized to the nucleus and mitochondria 1), a novel PPR protein that is dual localized to mitochondria and nuclei in Arabidopsis thaliana, as observed by green fluorescent protein fusions and immunodetection on subcellular fractions and on histological sections. Genetic complementation showed that loss of PNM1 function in mitochondria, but not in nuclei, is lethal for the embryo. In mitochondria, it is associated with polysomes and may play a role in translation. A genetic screen in yeast identified protein partners of PNM1. These partners, the nucleosome assembly protein NAP1, and the transcription factor TCP8 interact with PNM1 in the nucleus in planta. Furthermore, TCP8 can bind the promoter of PNM1. This suggests that PNM1 might be involved in the regulation of its own gene expression in the nucleus and could thus play a role in gene expression adjustments between mitochondria and the nucleus.
!~RES~! To gain insights into the involvement of PPR proteins in mitochondrial translation as suggested by the interaction of PPR336 with mitochondrial polysomes (CITATION), we initially performed a reverse genetic screen of Arabidopsis mutants representing PPR genes of unknown function. The collections from the Syngenta Arabidopsis Insertion Library and Salk Institute were screened to look for T-DNA insertions in Arabidopsis PPR genes. We were unable to find any homozygous plants for two independent T-DNA insertion alleles for At5g60960 when we looked at progeny of a large number of heterozygous plants. We named this gene PNM1 for PPR protein localized to the nucleus and mitochondria 1 (Figure 1A; see Supplemental Figure 1 online). The dissection of siliques from heterozygous mutant plants showed that about one-quarter of the embryos are aborted (Figure 1B), indicating that homozygous mutation of PNM1 is lethal at an early stage of embryo development and, thus, that PNM1 has an essential function. [[FIGURE]] The availability of numerous EST sequences confirms that PNM1 is expressed. The PNM1 5′ transcript end was characterized by 5′ rapid amplification of cDNA ends. Transcript ends were exclusively located in a region between 26 and 40 nucleotides upstream of the PNM1 initiation codon (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). It suggests that the PNM1 transcript has neither alternative transcription start sites nor alternative splicing. To investigate the expression pattern of PNM1 in different tissues, we used a promoter–β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter system. The sequence between the start codon of PNM1 and the stop codon of the upstream gene was used to drive the GUS reporter gene (PPNM1-GUS construct) and stably introduced in Arabidopsis by agroinfection. In five independent PPNM1-GUS plant lines, GUS activity was visible in root tips, lateral root primordial, and leaf primordia (Figure 1C). In addition, a high level of GUS activity was detected in the mature pollen grains. These data indicate that PNM1 is mostly expressed in pollen grains and in actively dividing cells during vegetative growth. At5g60960 encodes a putative protein of 521 amino acids with an estimated molecular mass of 59 kD. Sequence analysis revealed that the protein harbors seven PPR motifs and two predicted localization signals (Figure 1), a mitochondrial target signal (MTS) at its N terminus, and a putative nuclear localization signal (NLS) rich in basic residues at its C terminus. Alignment of PNM1 with orthologs from numerous plant species shows that this basic region is highly conserved and thus might be functional (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). The presence of the two predicted localization signals suggested that PNM1 could be dual targeted to mitochondria and nuclei and led us to investigate the precise distribution of PNM1 in Arabidopsis cells. To analyze the subcellular localization of PNM1 in plant cells, we first transiently expressed in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) cells different green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged proteins under the control of a 35S promoter (Figure 2A). The C-terminal translational fusion of the full-length PNM1 with GFP (PNM1_GFP) localizes to mitochondria of tobacco cells. The N-terminal fusion of GFP to PNM1 prevents its import into mitochondria, and the GFP_PNM1 protein shows a nuclear-cytosolic localization. Deletion of the mitochondrial target signal (PNM1ΔMTS_GFP) restricts the localization of the protein to the nucleus. These results suggest that PNM1 harbors a signal that can target the protein to the nucleus. To verify that this nuclear targeting property is indeed encoded by the C-terminal putative NLS signal, the last 174 bp of PNM1 were fused in frame with GUS gene (GUS_NLS_GFP) encoding the cytosolic GUS protein. The GUS_NLS_GFP protein was localized exclusively to the nucleus. This shows that the putative NLS signal is active in plant cells. To confirm the mitochondrial and nuclear localizations of PNM1 in vivo, immunodetection was performed on Arabidopsis subcellular fractions using polyclonal antibodies generated against the full-length PNM1. The antibodies detected a unique 55-kD protein in the mitochondrial and nuclear fractions. The purity of the respective subcellular fractions was demonstrated with antibodies specific to each subcellular fraction (Figure 2B). To determine to which form of PNM1 the 55-kD signals correspond, the full-length and the predicted mature form (amino acids 60 to 521) of PNM1 were expressed and purified and their sizes compared with the signals detected. This analysis revealed that the signals correspond to the mature form of PNM1 (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). Localization was further investigated by immunohistochemistry. PNM1 antibodies were used to detect the protein in histochemical sections from Arabidopsis seedlings. Signal was observed in structures that correspond to nuclei as indicated by the colocalization with 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole staining (Figure 2C). Signal specificity was confirmed by comparing the PNM1 primary antibody with its preimmune serum. Localization was also investigated by immunogold labeling with PNM1-specific antibodies and electron microscopy (Figure 2D). This showed that PNM1 can be localized in mitochondria and the nucleus within the same cell. Altogether, the results show that PNM1 is a novel dual-localized PPR protein in Arabidopsis cells. [[FIGURE]] The dual localization of PNM1 in Arabidopsis cells reveals that the protein likely plays an essential role in either mitochondria or the nucleus or in both organelles. To determine which localization is essential for embryogenesis, heterozygous pnm1-1 mutant plants were complemented with constructs driven by the endogenous PNM1 promoter and expressing either the wild-type PNM1 gene or truncated versions deleted of either the mitochondrial targeting signal or the NLS. The self-progeny of three independent transgenic and heterozygous pnm1-1 plants (T1) for each construct were analyzed by genotyping. The wild-type transgene successfully complemented the pnm1 mutation, indicating that the embryo-lethal phenotype was indeed caused by the loss of function of At5g60960. By contrast, the truncated gene lacking a MTS did not complement the pnm1 mutation. Finally, the version deleted of the C-terminal part of the PNM1 gene complemented the pnm1 mutation and resulted in viable plants. These results indicate that PNM1 has an essential function in mitochondria and a distinct, although nonessential, role in the nuclei of plant cells. PPR proteins were predicted to be RNA binding proteins (CITATION), and studies have already shown that some PPR proteins can indeed directly bind RNA (CITATION). Here, we used Biacore technology based on surface plasmon resonance (CITATION) to establish whether PNM1 was also able to bind RNA or not. Recombinant PNM1 was captured on sensor chips, and RNA solutions were used as potential ligands. High-affinity binding was observed when Arabidopsis total mitochondrial RNA was used but not with total plastidial RNA. The release of RNA from PNM1 was slow, which suggests that the interaction with RNA is stable rather than transient. Mitochondrial RNA were fractionated by LiCl precipitation and used for interaction assays. Interaction was observed with mitochondrial RNA from the LiCl pellet containing mRNA as well as 26S and 18S rRNAs and not with the LiCl supernatant, which contains tRNAs and 5S rRNA (CITATION). Kinetic analyses were performed through consecutive injections of increasing concentrations of RNA. This enabled to determine that PNM1 is able to bind RNA with a Kd in the nanomolar range (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). When oligoribonucleotides representing poly A, C, G, and U were used, PNM1 was able to bind poly G with high affinity as already observed for other PPR proteins (CITATION), but not the other oligoribonucleotides. Thioredoxin or tobacco mosaic virus protein was used as a negative control to show that the affinity response observed was indeed due to RNA/protein interaction and not to artifactual binding of RNA to sensor chips. Altogether, the results indicate that PNM1 is able to bind RNA. PNM1 plays an essential function in Arabidopsis mitochondria. Its capacity to bind RNA suggests that its function could be related to an essential posttranscriptional process in mitochondria, as observed for a rapidly growing number of PPR proteins in plant organelles (CITATION). We first investigated the submitochondrial localization of PNM1. It was detected in mitoplasts (i.e., matrix and inner membrane) and in soluble and extrinsic membrane protein fractions (Figure 3A). These results indicate that PNM1 is a soluble protein in the mitochondrial matrix and a peripheral protein of the inner membrane as well. Subsequently, the association of PNM1 with complexes containing RNA in mitochondria was investigated through the immunodetection of PNM1 in complexes separated by sucrose density gradients. Fractions representing the entire gradients were collected. Equivalent amounts of proteins from each fraction were reacted with PNM1 antibodies. The 55-kD signal was detected for fractions at the bottom of the gradients (Figure 3B). Fractions were also reacted with antibodies specific for the ribosomal protein RPS1 and NAD9 from respiratory complex I. NAD9 was only detected in the top fractions of the gradients, suggesting that they contain complexes of sizes up to 2000 kD. On the other hand, RPS1 was detected in the same bottom fractions of the gradient as PNM1. These bottom fractions were proposed to contain polysomes (CITATION). This suggested that PNM1 could be associated with polysomes. Mitochondrial samples were subjected to treatments leading to the destabilization of polysomes to demonstrate this assumption. Samples were treated with puromycin, which specifically destabilizes ribosomes (CITATION), and with RNase, which results in the degradation of RNA necessary to maintain polysome integrity. In all cases, after treatment and separation on gradients, PNM1, similar to RPS1, was no longer detected in bottom fractions (Figure 3B). This confirms that PNM1 is indeed associated with polysomes in an RNA-dependent manner in Arabidopsis mitochondria, which is consistent with the capacity of PNM1 to bind RNA, although the precise nature of this association with polysomes is unknown. [[FIGURE]] To identify the precise RNA targets of PNM1 in mitochondria, extensive efforts were deployed to coimmunoprecipitate PNM1 in its native form bound to RNA partners from a solubilized Arabidopsis mitochondrial extract with either anti-PNM1 serum or purified anti-PNM1 polyclonal antibodies as described previously (CITATION). Surprisingly, we were unable to immunoprecipitate PNM1 presumably because the epitopes recognized by the antibodies in denaturing conditions are hidden when the protein is in its native form. The identification of protein partners should give clues to understanding the function(s) of PNM1. For this, a screen using a system derived from yeast two-hybrid was performed. The DUAL hunter system (DualsystemsBiotech) enables the use of a nuclear protein as bait. Briefly, a bait protein of interest is inserted in frame with the membrane protein Ost4p, the C-terminal half of ubiquitin, and the transcription factor LexA-VP16 (X-Cub constructs). A second protein of interest (the prey) is fused at the C terminus of a mutated version of the N-terminal domain of ubiquitin (Nub-X constructs). If bait and prey interact, Cub and NubG complement to form split-ubiquitin. Then, ubiquitin-specific proteases release LexA-VP16, which migrates to the nucleus and activates the transcription of reporter genes (CITATION). We screened an Arabidopsis seedling cDNA library for proteins that interact with PNM1. Of 107 transformants screened, 11 positive clones were identified. Eight different cDNA clones contained sequences of At4g26110 encoding NAP1, the Nucleosome Assembly Protein 1. The cDNAs rescued from the three other clones represented a nuclear transcriptional factor TCP8 (AT1G58100) and two proteins of unknown functions (AT5G24680 and AT1G44920). TCP8 belongs to the TCP transcription factor family known to bind site II elements in promoter regions (CITATION). AT5G24680 contains a ubiquitin fold modifier-specific peptidase domain (IPR012462), suggesting that the protein could interact with the ubiquitin protein fused to PNM1 rather than with PNM1 itself. AT5G24680 and AT1G44920 do not contain any predictable localization or function in mitochondria and/or the nucleus and were thus not further investigated at this stage. The full-length mature PNM1, NAP1, and TCP8 cDNA sequences were subsequently cloned in the respective DUAL hunter vectors to confirm protein interactions (Figure 4A). The results showed that PNM1 is indeed able to interact directly with both NAP1 and TCP8, two proteins involved in gene expression and localized in plant nuclei. [[FIGURE]] The protein interactions observed in yeast were investigated in planta. For this, we used the bimolecular fluorescence complementation approach. This method relies on expression of the two proteins of interest as translational fusions either to the nonfluorescing N-terminal (YN) or C-terminal (YC) halves of yellow fluorescent protein (YFP). Only when the YFP halves are brought together by interaction of the fused proteins can they form a functional YFP fluorophore, which can be detected with an epifluorescence microscope (CITATION). A set of vectors was generated to express PNM1, NAP1, and TCP8 fused with the N-terminal (YN) or the C-terminal (YC) part of the YFP after transient transformation of onion epidermal cells using particle bombardment. YFP fluorescence was observed in the nucleus of plant cells when the vectors encoding PNM1 were cobombarded in combination with the vectors expressing NAP1 and TCP8, respectively (Figure 4B). These results show that PNM1 interacts physically with NAP1 and TCP8 in the nuclei of living plant cells. To get insights into the function of PNM1 in plant nuclei, we analyzed both macroscopic and molecular phenotypes of complemented pnm1 plants. Three independent complementation lines were analyzed for both heterozygous PNM1ΔMTS and homozygous PNM1ΔNLS. PNM1 proteins levels were first checked in both mitochondria and the nucleus. PNM1 levels were unchanged in the heterozygous PNM1ΔMTS lines, whereas it was absent from the nucleus in PNM1ΔNLS plants (Figure 5A). When grown on half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium, PNM1ΔNLS plants showed a delay in root elongation. Plants from the three lines had 26% shorter roots after 10 d on average (see Supplemental Figure 5 online). Because PNM1 interacts with TCP8 in plant nuclei and because the PNM1 gene has site II elements (DNA elements known to be recognized by TCP transcription factors) in its promoter region (see Supplemental Figure 6 online), we investigated transcript levels of PNM1 in PNM1ΔNLS plants. A 2.8-kb transcript was detected in wild-type plants, whereas a slightly smaller RNA, which corresponds to PNM1 sequence lacking the 171 nucleotides of the NLS region, was detected in mutants. In addition, PNM1 transcript levels were on average 25% higher in PNM1ΔNLS compared with the wild type for the three independent mutant lines analyzed (Figure 5B). To verify that transcript level variations were indeed due to the absence of PNM1 from plant nuclei, we also looked at RNA levels of exemplary chosen nuclear genes also containing site II elements in their promoter sequence (i.e., ATP2, COXVc, MPPα, SDH1, and the complex I 23 kD subunit) that all encode proteins of the mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation machinery. Similar to PNM1, transcript levels for these genes were on average 29% higher in mutants (Figure 5B). These gene expression variations were statistically significant (i.e., with Student’s t test P values < 0.05). By contrast, when genes that do not contain site II elements in their promoter region were used (i.e., the mitochondrial AOX1a and NDB2 as well as ACTIN2), unchanged expression levels were observed in the mutant lines (Figure 5C). [[FIGURE]] The interaction of PNM1 with TCP8 and the transcript level upregulation for genes such as PNM1 containing site II elements in their promoter region in PNM1ΔNLS mutants led us to investigate whether TCP8 could directly bind the PNM1 promoter. This was analyzed by electromobility shift assays with recombinant TCP8 and double-stranded DNA probes representing two regions in PNM1 promoter (i.e., the SII probe containing two site II elements and the Pr probe without such elements) (see Supplemental Figure 6 online). Two shifted bands were observed with TCP8 and the SII probe (Figure 6). When PNM1 was added (lane 5 in Figure 6), no additional shifted band was observed but the relative amount of band 1 increased (as compared with lane 3). However, no shift was observed between PNM1 alone and the SII probe. No shift was observed with the Pr probe, and no interaction was observed between single-stranded DNA probes and TCP8. The two shifted bands could be due to the presence of two site II elements in the SII probe. Alternatively, the two bands could reflect the association of either monomers or dimers of TCP8 to the probe. Indeed, TCP proteins were already shown to be able to dimerize (CITATION). In this case, the addition of PNM1 to the binding reaction might have resulted in a competition with TCP8 for dimer formation. Altogether, these results suggest that TCP8 can specifically bind site II elements in the promoter region of PNM1. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia (Col) was used. The T-DNA insertion mutant lines were obtained from the ABRC Stock Center. Total cellular DNA was isolated as described by CITATION. Plants were genotyped by PCR, and the insertion position was confirmed by sequencing with a T-DNA left border primer. pnm1-1 is SAIL_868_D10 (insertion site +958) and pnm1-2 is SAIL_224_H01 (insertion site +971). For PNM1ΔMTS, the first 177 nucleotides were omitted, whereas for PNM1ΔNLS, the last 171 nucleotides were absent. For complementation, products were cloned in fusion with PNM1 endogenous promoter into pGWB1 binary vector and introduced into pnm1-1 heterozygote mutants via Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101. The 652 nucleotides upstream from the PNM1 initiation codon were cloned in fusion with GUS. Tissues from promoter-GUS fusion plants issued from five independent lines were stained with 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-glucuronic acid (Biosynth) as described by CITATION. The PNM1 full-length coding region without the termination codon was cloned into pBAD/Thio TOPO (Invitrogen) in fusion with an N-terminal thioredoxin and C-terminal polyhistidine tags. Proteins were expressed for 2 h at 37°C in LMG194 Escherichia coli induced with 0.2% arabinose (p/v) and purified by affinity to Ni according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Purified PNM1 protein was used to immunize rabbit to produce polyclonal antibodies. For RNA binding assay, the fragment encoding PNM1 without the predicted mitochondrial transit peptide (amino acids 60 to 521) was cloned into the same vector expressed and purified with the same procedure. PNM1 localization was investigated by GFP fusion in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY-2 cells and confocal microscopy as described previously (CITATION), by immunodetection using PNM1-specific antibodies on equivalent amounts (30 μg) of Arabidopsis subcellular fractions. Sera were used at dilutions of 1:5000 for PNM1 antibodies, 1:100,000 for wheat (Triticum aestivum) NAD9 (CITATION), 1:10,000 for wheat RPS1, of 1:10,000 for tobacco MnSOD (CITATION), 1:50,000 for yeast Cytc1 (G. Schatz, Basel University, Basel, Switzerland), 1:10,000 for ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (B. Camara, Strasbourg, France), and 1:2000 for histone H2B antibodies (W.H. Shen, Strasbourg, France). PNM1 localization was also investigated by immunohistochemistry as described previously (CITATION). Immunogold labeling was performed as described previously (CITATION). Briefly, Arabidopsis seedlings were fixed overnight in 4% glutaraldehyde and treated for 2 h with 10% (w/v) picric acid and 2 h with 2% uranyl acetate and stained with 0.1% (v/v) osmium tetroxyde. Samples were dehydrated with ethanol and infiltrated with EPON812 medium-grade resin. Sections (90 μm) were cut with an Ultracut E microtome (Reichert) and collected on grids coated with formvar (EMS). For PNM1 localization, a 1:500 dilution of PNM1 antibodies was used followed by incubation with goat-anti-rabbit antibodies coupled to 15-nm colloidal gold particles (Aurion EM Reagents). Samples were visualized with a Hitachi H-600 electron microscope operating at 75 kV. The specificity of immunogold labeling was verified in control experiments where secondary antibodies alone were used. Mitochondria, submitochondrial fractions, and chloroplasts were prepared as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). Nuclei were extracted from protoplasts. Protoplasts (106) were resuspended in 1 mL of NIB buffer (10 mM MES KOH, pH 5.5, 0.2 M sucrose, 2.5 mM EDTA, and 2.5 mM DTT). After protoplast lysis, the homogenate was loaded on 2.3 M sucrose, 1× NIB, and 40% Percoll (v/v) gradients. Gradients were centrifuged for 30 min at 3200g, and nuclei were collected at the Percoll/sucrose interphase and washed and resuspended with 0.35 M sucrose and 0.5 mM MgCl2. Polysome-enriched fractions were prepared as described previously from cauliflower (Brassica oleracea) mitochondria (CITATION), and for polysome destabilization experiments, lysates were treated with 10 mM puromycin or 600 units/mL of RNase A. Experiments were performed with a Biacore 2000 optical biosensor instrument (GE Healthcare, Biacore). The running buffer was composed of 10 mM HEPES, pH 7.4, 150 mM NaCl, 10 mM MgCl2, and surfactant P20 0.005%. PNM1 was bound to anti-His antibodies immobilized on a CM5 sensor surface using standard amine-coupling chemistry. Briefly, the antibodies at 10 μg/mL diluted in 10 mM sodium acetate, pH 4.0, were injected on the surface. Remaining activated groups were blocked with 1 M ethanolamine, pH 8.5. His-tagged proteins diluted in the running buffer at 30 ng/μL were injected and captured on the flow cells. For molecular binding assays, RNA samples at 17, 35, 70, 140, and 280 nM were injected consecutively for 1 min at a flow rate of 20 μL/min. Responses were XY-zeroed and double-referenced (i.e., the sensorgrams were corrected for signals in the reference flow cell that contains the control tobacco mosaic virus protein or thioredoxin as well as for the blank buffer data). To facilitate data comparison, responses were normalized relative to the density of captured His-tagged PNM1. Results were interpreted using the BiaEvaluation 4.1.1 software (GE Healthcare). Binding curves for PNM1 and mitochondrial total or LiCl pellet RNA were fitted to a 1:1 interaction model describing the interaction, which allowed the estimation of Kd values. PNM1 protein interactions were investigated by screening an Arabidopsis cDNA library in yeast with the DUAL hunter system (DualsystemsBiotech). Briefly, PNM1 cDNA was cloned with SfiI technology in pDHB1. The bait vector obtained was transformed in the yeast strain NMY51. The bait strain was transformed according to the manufacturer’s instructions with a commercially available library expressing Nub fused to cDNAs. The library was constructed with total RNA from a mixture of tissues from 6-d-old Arabidopsis seedlings (DualsystemsBiotech). Protein interactions were confirmed in planta by bimolecular fluorescence complementation experiments in onion epidermal cells as described previously (CITATION). Total RNA was isolated from Arabidopsis seedlings using the TRIzol method. RNA samples were separated on agarose denaturing gels, blotted on Hybond-NX membranes (Amersham), and hybridized using standard methods (CITATION). Equal loading of lanes was verified by methylene blue blot staining. Specific PCR products used to probe the blots were P32 labeled with a DECA-Prime II kit (Ambion) following the manufacturer’s instructions. Signal was acquired with a FLA-7000 phosphor imager (Fujifilm), normalized according to local background and quantified with the software Quantity One (Bio-Rad). Electromobility shift assays were performed essentially as described for Arabidopsis TCP4 (CITATION). Briefly, 10 fmol of γATP end-labeled oligonucleotides were annealed with equimolar amounts of unlabeled antisense oligonucleotides slowly cooled to room temperature for 30 min. The resulting double-stranded DNA probes were incubated with 1, 3, or 10 ng of purified recombinant proteins in buffer containing 20 mM HEPES-KOH at pH 7.8, 100 mM KCl, 1 mM EDTA, 0.1% BSA, 10 ng salmon sperm DNA, and 10% glycerol for 30 min and loaded on an 8% native polyacrylamide gel. Electrophoresis was performed at 4 V/cm for 45 min with 0.5× Tris-borate buffer. The genes described in this article correspond to the following Arabidopsis Genome Initiative codes: At5g60960 (PNM1), At1g58100 (TCP8), and At4g26110 (NAP1). A complete list of oligonucleotides used in this study is available in Supplemental Table 1 online. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Alignment of the PNM1 Protein Sequence with Exemplary Chosen Orthologs from Vitis vinifera and Oryza sativa. Supplemental Figure 2. Determination of PNM1 Transcript 5′ End. Supplemental Figure 3. Size Estimation of the PNM1 Signals Detected in Mitochondria and the Nucleus. Supplemental Figure 4. PNM1 Binds Mitochondrial RNA. Supplemental Figure 5. Macroscopic Phenotype of pnm1 Mutants Complemented with PNM1ΔNLS. Supplemental Figure 6. Promoter Region of PNM1. Supplemental Table 1. Complete List of Oligonucleotides Used in This Study.
