!~ABS~! We are studying a Galacturonosyltransferase-Like (GATL) gene family in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) that was identified bioinformatically as being closely related to a group of 15 genes (Galacturonosyltransferase1 [GAUT1] to -15), one of which (GAUT1) has been shown to encode a functional galacturonosyltransferase. Here, we describe the phylogeny, gene structure, evolutionary history, genomic organization, protein topology, and expression pattern of this gene family in Arabidopsis. Expression studies (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) demonstrate that all 10 AtGATL genes are transcribed, albeit to varying degrees, in Arabidopsis tissues. Promoter::β-glucuronidase expression studies show that individual AtGATL gene family members have both overlapping and unique expression patterns. Nine of the 10 AtGATL genes are expressed in all major plant organs, although not always in all cell types of those organs. AtGATL4 expression appears to be confined to pollen grains. Most of the AtGATL genes are expressed strongly in vascular tissue in both the stem and hypocotyl. Subcellular localization studies of several GATL proteins using yellow fluorescent protein tagging provide evidence supporting the Golgi localization of these proteins. Plants carrying T-DNA insertions in three AtGATL genes (atgatl3, atgatl6, and atgatl9) have reduced amounts of GalA in their stem cell walls. The xylose content increased in atgatl3 and atgatl6 stem walls. Glycome profiling of cell wall fractions from these mutants using a toolkit of diverse plant glycan-directed monoclonal antibodies showed that the mutations affect both pectins and hemicelluloses and alter overall wall structure, as indicated by altered epitope extractability patterns. The data presented suggest that the AtGATL genes encode proteins involved in cell wall biosynthesis, but their precise roles in wall biosynthesis remain to be substantiated.
!~RES~! A previous study had identified 10 GATL genes within the Arabidopsis GAUT1-related gene family that have high sequence similarity (CITATION). Pairwise comparisons of the amino acid sequences of the whole coding regions of these proteins showed between 56% and 84% identity and between 71% and 89% similarity (Table I). The initial analysis of the GATL phylogeny in Arabidopsis did not yield a statistically robust subclade structure for this GT8 subfamily (CITATION). Subsequent inclusion of additional GATL protein sequences from eight additional fully sequenced plant genomes resolved the GATL subfamily into six subclades with robust statistical support (CITATION). This substructure of the GATL tree remains largely unchanged by the addition of sequences from three additional sequenced plant genomes (maize [Zea mays], Medicago truncatula, and papaya [Carica papaya]). In this analysis, an additional clade (GATL-c) that contains only monocot genes was resolved with high statistical support (Fig. 1A). The phylogram shows a basal clade (GATL-g) of GATLs from Physcomitrella patens and Selaginella moellendorfii and six clades of angiosperm GATLs. The functional significance of the GATL subclades remains to be determined. All but one of the angiosperm GATL subclades have both monocot and dicot representatives, suggesting that the divergence of the GATL family occurred before the evolutionary split between monocots and dicots. Pairwise BLAST alignments were done to obtain the identities/similarities, as percentages, over the alignment lengths. [[FIGURE]] As several of the AtGATL proteins appeared as pairs of paralogs in the phylogenetic tree (Fig. 1A), we investigated whether traceable genome duplication events contributed to the complexity of the GATL family in Arabidopsis. The chromosomal locations of AtGATL genes in relation to the segmental duplication history of these regions were analyzed (CITATION). The resulting chromosome map (Fig. 1B) shows that AtGATL genes are only present on chromosomes I, III, and IV. According to the map, AtGATL8/AtGATL9 and AtGATL5/AtGATL6 constitute pairs of paralogous genes evolved from recent segmental duplication events. The AtGATL1/AtGATL2, AtGATL9/AtGATL10, and AtGATL5/AtGATL7 pairs evolved from older segmental duplication events with good statistical significance. The duplication history of AtGATL genes supports the observed close phylogenetic associations between some members of the AtGATL family. For AtGATL3 and AtGATL4, no traceable duplication history could be found, even though their genome positions are close to duplicated blocks. The AtGATL genes are similar not only in terms of their primary sequence and the size of their encoded proteins but also in their intron/exon organization (Fig. 1C). Of the 10 AtGATL genes, only AtGATL5 and AtGATL6, which appear as paralogs, contain one intron at the same position in their 3′ untranslated region. No introns are present in any of the other AtGATLs. The common intron/exon organization shared by these AtGATL genes supports the results from the phylogenetic analysis and the duplication history. To understand the roles of the AtGATL genes in plant development, we conducted semiquantitative reverse transcription (RT)-PCR analysis to determine the tissue-specific expression patterns for all AtGATL genes in different tissues taken from 7-week-old plants (Fig. 2). Analyzing different parts of the inflorescence stem makes it possible to monitor primary cell wall and secondary cell wall synthesis in a single stem simply by sectioning at different distances from the apical meristem, because secondary cell wall formation increases from the top to the base of the stem (CITATION). An ACTIN gene served as a positive control because it is expressed ubiquitously in all organs. [[FIGURE]] All 10 AtGATL genes are expressed, but at different levels and with different tissue distribution patterns (Fig. 2). The majority of the AtGATL genes are expressed at various levels in all of the different organs analyzed. However, AtGATL4 is expressed only in flowers. AtGATL2 expression is primarily limited to leaves, upper and lower stems, and, at a low level, in roots. AtGATL6 is highly expressed in upper and middle stems but not in lower stems, suggesting that this gene may be involved in primary cell wall synthesis or the initiation of secondary cell wall synthesis. To extend the observations made with the RT-PCR analyses, we generated promoter::GUS reporter lines in a wild-type Columbia background for each of the AtGATL genes by fusing the GUS gene (CITATION; CITATION) to upstream (promoter and 5′ untranslated regions) and downstream (3′ untranslated regions) sequences of each of the AtGATL genes (AtGATL::GUS). Histochemical staining analyses of GUS activity in the transgenic plants revealed expression patterns that were consistent with the outcome of the RT-PCR analyses done at the whole-tissue level, but with higher resolution (Figs. 3 and 4). For example, expression of the GUS reporter driven by the AtGATL4 promoter was restricted to flowers, in agreement with the RT-PCR analysis, but was confined to pollen grains and elongating pollen tubes. The tissue/organ-specific GUS expression profiles of all AtGATLs are summarized below. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Expression of the GUS reporter gene constructs in 10-d-old seedlings was detected in the cotyledons, primary leaves, shoot apices, and roots, depending on the AtGATL gene examined, although frequently only in specific cell types within those tissues. As shown in Figure 3, AtGATL1, -3, -7, -8, and -10 are expressed in cotyledons and primary leaves, whereas AtGATL5 and -9 are only detected in primary leaves. A close examination of primary leaves shows that AtGATL1 and -5 are only expressed in the vasculature of primary leaves. Most AtGATLs, except for AtGATL3, -4, -5, and -9, are also expressed in the trichomes, which form complex secondary walls (CITATION). Interestingly, AtGATL1, -2, -3, -5, -6, and -8 are also expressed in the shoot meristem, where only primary wall synthesis would be expected. All AtGATL reporters, with the exception of AtGATL4, are expressed in roots, but with distinct expression patterns for each gene. AtGATL2 is expressed in root tips, developing lateral root meristems, and at the base of extended lateral roots. AtGATL1 and AtGATL3 are expressed in root tips and portions of older roots. The restricted expression pattern of these two GATLs might explain why no expression of these genes could be detected in RT-PCR analyses of whole roots. Both AtGATL6 and AtGATL9 are only expressed in root tips. In addition, AtGATL5, -7, -8, and -10 are strongly expressed throughout the root, but only AtGATL8 and AtGATL10 are expressed in root hairs. Quite diverse patterns of expression were observed in developing flowers among the various AtGATL gene family members (Fig. 3). All AtGATL family members, except for AtGATL2, are expressed in a variety of floral organs, which is consistent with the RT-PCR analysis. AtGATL5 expression in flowers can be detected only in filaments, where AtGATL1 and AtGATL10 expression can also be detected. AtGATL1, -4, and -7 are expressed in the anthers. Expression of AtGATL4 was also observed in elongating pollen tubes (Fig. 3, inset). Carpel tissue expresses AtGATL3, -4, -6, and -10 in the stigma and AtGATL3 in the style. AtGATL3, -8, -9, and -10 are expressed in the sepals of the flower, whereas expression of the AtGATL3, -9, and -10 genes is detected in petals. All 10 AtGATL genes except AtGATL2, -4, and -5 are expressed in senescing siliques (Fig. 3). Many AtGATL members, such as AtGATL1, -3, -7, -8, and -10, are expressed in the abscission zone, and AtGATL7, -8, -9, and -10 are expressed in stigmatic tissue. AtGATL7 shows a unique expression pattern, being expressed in the pedicel of the silique. The overall expression patterns in young seedlings and flowers are summarized in Supplemental Table S2. The RT-PCR data documented that all AtGATL gene family members, except for AtGATL4, are highly expressed in inflorescence stems (Fig. 2). To determine in which cells within the stems these genes are expressed, hypocotyls and upper, middle, and lower parts of inflorescence stems were sectioned, stained, and analyzed. Overall, AtGATLs show overlapping, but not identical, expression patterns in stem and hypocotyl. Figure 4 shows that expression of many of the AtGATL genes is restricted primarily to the vascular tissues, although the patterns of expression vary depending on the AtGATL gene. The simplest expression pattern was observed for AtGATL5 and AtGATL10, whose expression could be detected only in xylem and phloem, respectively, in different parts of stems and hypocotyls. AtGATL6 is expressed in the phloem of the upper stem and in the phloem and developing secondary xylem of the hypocotyl (Fig. 4). In contrast, AtGATL8 expression varies a lot in different parts of stems and is expressed in almost all vascular tissues except for fibers and secondary xylem. It is noteworthy that AtGATL1 was specifically expressed in cells undergoing secondary wall thickening, including interfascicular fibers and metaxylem in stems and secondary xylem in hypocotyls. The AtGATL1 expression pattern observed here is consistent with the finding that this gene is specifically associated with secondary wall thickening in fibers and vessels (CITATION; CITATION). Interestingly, AtGATL2 shows an overlapping expression pattern with AtGATL1 in all parts of the stem, except that there is no expression in fibers. In hypocotyls, AtGATL2 can only be detected in the developing secondary xylem. AtGATL3 is specifically expressed in the epidermis, cortex, and phloem of stems and hypocotyls. AtGATL7 is detected in the phloem of lower stems, the cortex of hypocotyls, upper and middle stems, and the epidermis of upper and middle stems. Finally, AtGATL9 is highly expressed in the protoxylem of all parts of the stem and the cortex of upper stems and hypocotyls. The overall expression patterns in young seedlings are summarized in Supplemental Table S3. The topology of AtGATL proteins was analyzed using the plant membrane protein database, Aramemnon (http://aramemnon.botanik.uni-koeln.de/index.ep). The overall results of these analyses are shown in Supplemental Table S4. All AtGATLs were predicted to be soluble proteins by this analysis. However, the Aramemnon database strongly predicts that all GATL proteins are targeted to the secretory pathway, with at least half of the 18 programs used in Aramemnon predicting an N-terminal hydrophobic signal peptide domain for all of the GATL proteins. To establish the subcellular localization of the AtGATL proteins experimentally, we chose four AtGATL isoforms, AtGATL2, AtGATL3, AtGATL7, and AtGATL9, belonging to four different GATL subclades (GATL-d, GATL-e, GATL-b, and GATL-a; Fig. 1A), and generated fluorescently tagged fusion proteins by fusing enhanced yellow fluorescent protein (EYFP) to the C terminus of the full-length AtGATL proteins. The recombinant constructs were transiently coexpressed in Nicotiana benthamiana leaf epidermal cells with Gmct-ECFP (for enhanced cyan fluorescent protein, a Golgi marker; CITATION; CITATION) or ECFP-WAK2-HDEL (endoplasmic reticulum marker; CITATION) constructs, respectively. Confocal microscopy was used to determine the subcellular localization of the recombinant AtGATLs. EYFP-tagged AtGATL3 showed a punctate localization pattern when expressed in tobacco leaf epidermal cells (Fig. 5C). Colocalization experiments revealed that the localization pattern of AtGATL3-EYFP is identical to that of Gmct-ECFP (Fig. 5, B and D), which was previously shown to be localized in the Golgi (CITATION; CITATION). Together, these results demonstrate that AtGATL3 is a Golgi-localized protein. Similar subcellular localizations were also observed for AtGATL2, AtGATL7, and AtGATL9 proteins (data not shown). The Golgi localization of the AtGATL proteins is consistent with their possible role(s) in the biosynthesis of noncellulosic polysaccharides, which occurs in the Golgi (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To obtain homozygous mutant plants with disruptions in the AtGATL genes, we screened T-DNA insertion lines available from the Salk Institute (http://signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/tdnaexpress) through the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (for details, see “Materials and Methods”). Homozygous lines with an insertion in the exon or within the 5′ or 3′ noncoding regions were obtained for AtGATL3, -5, -6, -8, and -9 (Fig. 6A). RT-PCR of total RNAs isolated from homozygous atgatl mutant lines allowed us to identify four knockout mutants (atgatl5, atgatl6, atgatl8, and atgatl9) and one knockdown mutant (atgatl3; Fig. 6B). No discernible phenotypic changes were observed in the growth or morphology of any of the mutant plants compared with the wild type under normal growth conditions. [[FIGURE]] The amino acid sequences of the AtGATLs contain domains characteristic of GTs (CITATION; CITATION), suggesting that these proteins may be involved in cell wall polysaccharide biosynthesis. To determine whether disruptions of the five AtGATL genes caused alterations in the monosaccharide composition of total cell wall material, the relative amounts of neutral monosaccharides and GalA were determined for wide-type and five atgatl mutant plants. Stems from 10-week-old plants were chosen for this analysis because this tissue can be harvested in large quantities and all four of the disrupted AtGATL genes are highly expressed in stems, based both on RT-PCR (Fig. 2) and promoter::GUS results (Fig. 4). Compared with wide-type plants, atgatl3, atgatl6, and atgatl9 mutants showed 23.7%, 16.4%, and 20.5% reduction in GalA content, respectively, which was counterbalanced by increases in Xyl in atgatl3 and atgatl6 (Table II). The decrease in GalA content of atgatl3, atgatl6, and atgatl9 supports the argument that, like GAUT1 and QUA1, two other members of the GT8 family, the three AtGATL genes function as putative galacturonosyl transferases involved in pectin synthesis. For atgatl5 and atgatl8, no significant changes in sugar content were observed relative to wild-type plants. The glycosyl residue compositions are for cell walls isolated from inflorescence stems of 10-week-old Arabidopsis plants as determined by GC-MS of trimethyl silyl derivatives as described in “Materials and Methods.” Data are mol % ± se of three independent analyses. Glycosyl residues are abbreviated as Ara, Rha, Fuc, Xyl, Man, Gal, Glc, and GalUA (GalA). To obtain a more complete picture of possible changes in cell wall composition and structure resulting from mutations in the five GATL genes, we analyzed stem cell walls from the mutants using glycome profiling. This method (S. Pattathil and M.G. Hahn, unpublished data) involves ELISA-based screening of sequential extracts prepared from the plant cell walls using a toolkit of approximately 150 plant cell wall glycan-directed monoclonal antibodies that recognize diverse epitopes present on most major classes of plant cell wall polysaccharides, including xyloglucans, xylans, pectins, and arabinogalactans (CITATION). Glycome profiling gives information about changes both in the nature of the epitopes present in the cell walls and in the extractability of those epitopes from the walls (CITATION), the latter providing some information about larger scale changes in wall structure. Glycome profiles of the five atgatl mutant walls show subtle differences, primarily in epitope extractability patterns, when compared with the glycome profile of wild-type cell walls (Fig. 7). For example, the oxalate extracts of atgatl5 and atgatl6 stems contain easily detectable levels of xyloglucan epitopes, whereas the oxalate extract of wild-type walls show no detectable xyloglucan. There are also subtle differences in the levels of arabinogalactan epitopes in the 1 m KOH extracts of atgatl3, atgatl5, and atgatl9 stem walls compared with the equivalent extract of wild-type stem walls. Lastly, subtle differences in the extractability patterns of xylan epitopes are observable in the glycome profiles of all five atgatl mutant stem walls compared with the profile of wild-type stem walls. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The 12 draft plant genomes, predicted genes, and translated protein data used for bioinformatic analysis of the GATL family were downloaded from various sources, as specified in Supplemental Table S1. GATL proteins were identified from these genomes using an HMMER search (CITATION) for the Pfam (CITATION) Glyco_transf_8 (PF01501; 345 amino acids long) domain as the query. This HMMER search, using an E-value cutoff of 1e-2 or less, identified 99 GATL proteins from the 12 genomes. Four protein sequences were removed due to the fact that they were truncated or lacked key amino acid motifs characteristic of GT8 (CITATION). A maximum likelihood phylogenetic tree was constructed using PhyML version 2.4.4 (CITATION) for the 95 full-length proteins based on their multiple sequence alignment generated using MAFFT version 6.603 (CITATION) using the L-INS-I option as recommended to give the most accurate alignment. Specifically, PhyML analyses were conducted with the JTT model, 100 replicates of bootstrap analyses, estimated proportion of invariable sites, four rate categories, estimated γ-distribution parameter, and an optimized starting BIONJ tree. A clade of six genes (five from Physcomitrella patens and one from Selaginella moellendorfii) that are basal to all other plant GATL proteins examined was selected as the outgroup to root the phylogeny. A rectangular phylogram of the GATL protein sequences was generated using the Interactive Tree of Life Web server (CITATION). Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) plants were grown on soil in a controlled-environment chamber under a 14-h-light/10-h-dark cycle at 19°C during the light period and 15°C during the dark period. The light intensity was 150 μE m−2 s−1, and the relative humidity was maintained at 60% to 70%. Arabidopsis plants of the Columbia ecotype were used for transformation and isolation of DNA and RNA. T-DNA-mutagenized seeds were obtained from the Salk Institute (http://signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/tdnaexpress) through the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (Supplemental Table S5). T-DNA insertion mutants for gatl3, -5, -6, -8, and -9 were identified using the flanking primers (LP and RP) generated by the SIGnal T-DNA verification primer design Web site (http://signal.salk.edu/tdnaprimers.html) and primers from the T-DNA left border, LBa1 (5′-GCGTGGACCGCTTGCTGCAACT-3′) and LBb1 (5′-TCAAACAGGATTTTCGCCTGCT-3′). The sequences of the flanking primers for AtGATL genes are provided in Supplemental Table S6. For semiquantitative RT-PCR analysis of AtGATL gene expression, siliques, flowers, leaves, upper stems, middle stems, and lower stems were harvested from 7-week-old Arabidopsis plants and frozen immediately in liquid nitrogen. Roots for RT-PCR were obtained from plants grown hydroponically for 14 d under sterile conditions in B5 vitamin, with 1% (w/v) Suc, pH 5.8, at 22°C in constant white light. Approximately 100 mg of tissue samples was ground in liquid nitrogen, and total RNAs were extracted with the RNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen) and treated with RNase-free DNase (Qiagen) to remove contaminating genomic DNA. One microgram of total RNA was reverse transcribed using SuperScript III reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen) in a 20-μL RT first-strand synthesis reaction that contained oligo(dT) primers. RT-PCR products were generated using primer sequences unique to each of the 10 AtGATL genes (Supplemental Table S7). Semiquantitative RT-PCR was performed using the following program: 95°C for 3 min; 30 to 35 cycles of 30 s at 95°C, 30 s at 55°C, and 1 min at 72°C; then hold at 72°C for 5 min. To determine whether comparable amounts of RNA had been used for RT-PCR from the different tissues, the ACTIN2 gene (At3g18780) was used as a control. To determine AtGATL transcript levels in their respective homozygous mutant lines, total RNAs were isolated from stems of 7-week-old wild-type and homozygous atgatl mutant lines, and the gene transcript levels were analyzed according to the method described above. Knockouts were defined as mutants with RT-PCR reactions that yielded no detectable PCR product using gene-specific primers. Knockdown mutants were those that yielded significantly less, but detectable, PCR product compared with the wild-type plants. The cell-specific expression pattern of the AtGATL genes was studied using the GUS reporter gene. For each AtGATL promoter::GUS reporter gene construct, approximately 2.5 kb upstream of the predicted ATG start codons (including 5′ untranslated regions) and 1 to 1.5 kb downstream of the predicted stop codons (including 3′ untranslated regions) were PCR amplified using Pfx50 Taq polymerase (Invitrogen) with gene-specific primers containing appropriate restriction sites. Then, the two amplified genomic DNA fragments were fused with the GUS gene in the binary vector pBI101 to create the AtGATL promoter::GUS reporter gene construct. Sequences of the individual primers used are listed in Supplemental Table S8. Each of the AtGATL promoter::GUS reporter gene constructs was sequenced to verify its construction. The gene fusions were first electroporated into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 and then introduced into Arabidopsis wild-type plants (Columbia ecotype) via the floral dip method (CITATION). Transgenic plants were selected on plates containing kanamycin (50 mg L−1). Expression of AtGATL::GUS transgenes was visualized by staining for GUS activity as described (CITATION). Briefly, transgenic plants or excised tissues were stained in GUS staining solution (100 mm sodium phosphate, pH 7.0, 10 mm EDTA, 1 mm ferricyanide, 1 mm ferrocyanide, 0.1% [v/v] Triton X-100, and 1 mm 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl β-d-GlcA) at 37°C. The staining buffer was removed, and the samples were cleared in 70% (v/v) ethanol until the blue color became visible. For each construct, plants from five to 10 independent transgenic lines were examined. Patterns of gene expression for each construct were consistent across multiple transgenic lines, and representative plants were photographed with a stereoscopic microscope (Olympus SZH-ILLD) equipped with a Nikon DS-Ril camera head using NIS-Elements Basic Research software. The coding regions for selected AtGATL genes were cloned in frame with an EYFP gene under the control of the 35S promoter in a pCAMBIA-based binary vector (CITATION) to generate the fusion constructs (35S-AtGATL-EYFP). Primers used for creating the EYFP fusions are listed in Supplemental Table S9. The AtGATL constructs were sequenced to verify their construction and then transformed individually into A. tumefaciens strain GV3101. The constructs were individually cotransformed into fully expanded leaves of Nicotiana benthamiana plants together with the ECFP-tagged Golgi marker Gmct-ECFP (CITATION; CITATION). Cotransformation and signal observation were done as described previously (CITATION). Cell walls were prepared as alcohol-insoluble residues (AIR) as described previously (CITATION). In brief, stems from 10-week-old Arabidopsis wild-type and mutant plants were harvested on ice, flash frozen in liquid nitrogen, and ground to a fine powder with a mortar and pestle. The ground materials were consecutively extracted with 2 volumes of 100 mL of ice-cold 80% (v/v) ethanol, 100% ethanol, chloroform:methanol (1:1, v/v), and 100% acetone. Starch was removed from the walls by treatment with type I porcine α-amylase (Sigma-Aldrich; 47 units per 100-mg cell wall) in 100 mm ammonium formate (pH 6.0) for 48 h at room temperature with constant rotation. Destarched walls were centrifuged, washed three times with sterile water and twice with 100% acetone, and air dried. Sugar composition analyses were carried out on three independently prepared cell wall preparations using trimethyl silyl ethers of methyl glycosides as described (CITATION). Sequential extraction of cell walls (AIR) isolated from wild-type and atgatl mutant plants was done on 10 mg mL−1 suspensions. First, the AIR samples were suspended in 50 mm ammonium oxalate (pH 5.0). The suspension was incubated overnight at room temperature with constant mixing. After the incubation, the suspension was centrifuged at 3,400g, the supernatant was decanted and saved, and the pellet was washed three times with deionized water before subsequent extraction steps. The washed pellet was then sequentially extracted in the same manner using 50 mm sodium carbonate (pH 10), 1 m KOH, and 4 m KOH. In each step, the supernatants were individually decanted and saved. The 1 m and 4 m KOH extracts were neutralized with glacial acetic acid. All cell wall extracts were dialyzed against four changes of 20 L of deionized water (sample:water, approximately 1:60) at room temperature for a total of 48 h and then lyophilized. Cell wall extracts were dissolved in deionized water (0.2 mg mL−1), and total sugar contents of cell wall extracts were estimated using the phenol-sulfuric acid method (CITATION). Cell wall extracts (60 μg sugar mL−1) were applied to the wells of ELISA plates (Costar 3598) at 50 μL per well and allowed to evaporate to dryness overnight at 37°C. A Biotek robotic system was used to perform fully automated ELISA using a series of 150 monoclonal antibodies directed against plant cell wall carbohydrate epitopes (CITATION). ELISA data are presented as a heat map in which the antibody order is based on a hierarchical clustering analysis of the antibody collection that groups the antibodies according to their binding patterns to a panel of diverse plant glycans (CITATION). Monoclonal antibodies were obtained as hybridoma cell culture supernatants either from laboratory stocks at the Complex Carbohydrate Research Center (JIM and MAC series; available from CarboSource Services [http://www.carbosource.net]) or from Plant Probes (LM series, PAM1 [http://www.plantprobes.net]). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Table S1. Sources for the 12 genomes used for bioinformatic analysis of the GATL family. Supplemental Table S2. Summary of whole-plant AtGATL expression patterns based on Figure 3. Supplemental Table S3. Summary of whole-plant AtGATL expression patterns based on Figure 4. Supplemental Table S4. Analysis of the topology of AtGATLs using the plant membrane protein database, Aramemnon. Supplemental Table S5. T-DNA insertion lines used in this study. Supplemental Table S6. Flanking primer sequences for insertions in AtGATL genes. Supplemental Table S7. Primers used for RT-PCR. Supplemental Table S8. Primers used for construction of AtGATL promoter::GUS fusions. Supplemental Table S9. Primers used for construction of AtGATL::GFP fusions.
