!~ABS~! Zea mays and Arabidopsis thaliana Brittle 1 (ZmBT1 and AtBT1, respectively) are members of the mitochondrial carrier family. Although they are presumed to be exclusively localized in the envelope membranes of plastids, confocal fluorescence microscopy analyses of potato, Arabidopsis and maize plants stably expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusions of ZmBT1 and AtBT1 revealed that the two proteins have dual localization to plastids and mitochondria. The patterns of GFP fluorescence distribution observed in plants stably expressing GFP fusions of ZmBT1 and AtBT1 N-terminal extensions were fully congruent with that of plants expressing a plastidial marker fused to GFP. Furthermore, the patterns of GFP fluorescence distribution and motility observed in plants expressing the mature proteins fused to GFP were identical to those observed in plants expressing a mitochondrial marker fused to GFP. Electron microscopic immunocytochemical analyses of maize endosperms using anti-ZmBT1 antibodies further confirmed that ZmBT1 occurs in both plastids and mitochondria. The overall data showed that (i) ZmBT1 and AtBT1 are dually targeted to mitochondria and plastids; (ii) AtBT1 and ZmBT1 N-terminal extensions comprise targeting sequences exclusively recognized by the plastidial compartment; and (iii) targeting sequences to mitochondria are localized within the mature part of the BT1 proteins.
!~RES~! We produced and characterized Arabidopsis, potato and maize plants constitutively expressing AtBT1–GFP and ZmBT1–GFP. These plants constitutively expressed translationally fused AtBT1–GFP- and ZmBT1–GFP-encoding genes under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter (for potato and Arabidopsis) and the ubiquitin promoter (for maize) (Supplementary Fig. S1, Table 1). Expression of these constructs was confirmed by immunoblot analyses using antisera raised against ZmBT1 and GFP (not shown). As it is possible that ectopic expression of genes may cause mislocalization of the encoded proteins, we analyzed plants from 10 independent lines per construct to ensure the attainment of reliable data.  Confocal microscopy analyses of ZmBT1–GFP-expressing plants revealed that, consistent with previous studies showing the plastidial localization of ZmBT1 (CITATION, CITATION), strong ZmBT1–GFP fluorescence co-localized with the red autofluorescence of maize (Fig. 1A), Arabidopsis (Fig. 1B) and potato (Fig. 1C1 and C2) mesophyll chloroplasts. GFP fluorescence was also observed in Chl-deficient or Chl-lacking plastids of epidermal cells. These analyses also revealed that ZmBT1–GFP clearly localized in the periphery and poles of large starch granules containing amyloplasts of potato tuber cells (Fig. 1D). Most important, however, was the fact that ZmBT1–GFP also occurred in organelles whose size, shape and motility patterns clearly resembled those of mitochondria (Fig. 1, see movies in Supplementary Figs. S2–S4). To investigate further the possible mitochondrial localization of ZmBT1–GFP, we carried out confocal microscopy analyses of ZmBT1–GFP-expressing potato tubers that had previously been incubated with Mito-tracker Red, a specific mitochondrial probe (CITATION). These analyses revealed that the distribution and motility of Mito-tracker Red and ZmBt1–GFP fluorescence unmistakably overlapped with small non-plastidic, highly motile structures (Fig. 1D, see movie in Supplementary Fig. S5). The overall data thus showed that ZmBT1 has a dual cellular localization to plastids and mitochondria.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Confocal microscopy analyses of AtBT1–GFP-expressing plants revealed that AtBT1–GFP localized in the plastidial compartment of Arabidopsis mesophyll cells (Fig. 2A), and potato mesophyll (Fig. 2B1 and B2) and tuber cells (Fig. 2C), which is consistent with previous studies showing the plastidial localization of AtBT1 (CITATION). However, rigorous analyses also showed that AtBT1–GFP clearly co-localized in organelles whose size, shape and motility patterns resembled those of mitochondria (Fig. 2, see movie in Supplementary Fig. S6). Subsequent confocal microscopy analyses of AtBT1–GFP-expressing potato tubers that had previously been incubated with Mito-tracker Red clearly revealed that the distribution and motility of Mito-tracker Red and AtBT1–GFP fluorescence completely overlapped in small non-plastidic, highly motile, structures (Fig. 2C, Supplementary Fig. S7). The overall data thus showed that AtBT1 has a dual localization to plastids and mitochondria.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We hypothesized that the dual localization of AtBT1 and ZmBT1 would result from the presence in the pre-mature AtBT1 and ZmBT1 of N-terminal extensions acting as ‘ambiguous’ targeting sequences that are recognized as import signals by both plastids and mitochondria (CITATION). To test this hypothesis we carried out confocal fluorescence microscopy analyses of plants expressing the N-terminal regions of AtBT1 and ZmBT1 fused to GFP (TP-AtBT1–GFP and TP-ZmBT1–GFP, respectively) (Supplementary Fig. S1, Table 1). Furthermore, we analyzed the fluorescence distribution in plants expressing GFP fusions of ZmBT1 and AtBT1 lacking the N-terminal region (ΔTP-ZmBT1–GFP and ΔTP-AtBT1–GFP, respectively) (Supplementary Fig. S1, Table 1). As a control for plastidial and mitochondrial localization we used plants expressing the TP of P541 [the major protein component of plastoglobules (CITATION, CITATION)] fused to GFP, and a mitochondria-targeting pre-sequence (MitTPr) [the N-terminus of the F1-ATPase γ-subunit (CITATION)] fused to GFP (TP-P541–GFP and MitTPr–GFP, respectively) (Supplementary Fig. S1, Table 1). These analyses revealed that the fluorescence distribution of TP-AtBT1–GFP (Fig. 3A) and TP-ZmBT1–GFP (Fig. 3B) was fully congruent with that of TP-P541–GFP (Fig. 3C), GFP fluorescence being exclusively localized in plastids. It is noteworthy that these analyses also showed that the patterns of GFP fluorescence distribution and motility observed in ΔTP-AtBT1–GFP- and ΔTP-ZmBT1–GFP-expressing plants (Fig. 3D, E, see movie in Supplementary Fig. S8) were identical to those observed in MitTPr–GFP-expressing plants (Fig. 3F; see movie in Supplementary Fig. S9), indicating that ZmBT1 and AtBT1 plastid-targeting sequences are located in the N-terminal extension of the protein, whereas ZmBT1 mitochondria-targeting sequences are located within the mature protein. To investigate this possibility further, we carried out confocal fluorescence microscopy analyses of plants expressing GFP fusions of proteins obtained upon replacement of the N-terminal extension of ZmBT1 and AtBT1 by the TP of P541 (TP-541-ΔTP-ZmBT1–GFP and TP-541-ΔTP-AtBT1–GFP, respectively), and plants expressing GFP fusions of proteins obtained upon replacement of the N-terminal extension of ZmBT1 and AtBT1 by the mitochondria targeting pre-sequence of the F1-ATPase γ-subunit (MitTPr-ΔTP-ZmBT1–GFP and MitTPr-ΔTP-AtBT1–GFP, respectively) (Supplementary Fig. S1, Table 1). These analyses revealed that, similarly to ZmBT1–GFP and AtBT1–GFP, TP-541-ΔTP-ZmBT1–GFP and TP-541-ΔTP-AtBT1–GFP were localized in both the plastidial and mitochondrial compartments (Fig. 4A, B, see movies in Supplementary Figs. S10, S11). In clear contrast, MitTPr-ΔTP-ZmBT1–GFP and MitTPr-ΔTP-AtBT1–GFP were exclusively localized to mitochondria (Fig. 4C, D, see movies in Supplementary Figs. S12, S13). The overall data thus strongly indicated that (i) the N-terminal extensions of AtBT1 and ZmBT1 comprise targeting sequences recognized by the plastidial compartment but not by mitochondria; and (ii) targeting sequences to mitochondria are localized within the mature part of AtBT1 and ZmBT1 proteins.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] CITATION) and CITATION) showed that ZmBT1 and AtBT1 are exclusively localized at the inner envelope membranes of plastids. Intriguingly, however, the fluorescence patterns of AtBT1–GFP- and ZmBT1–GFP-expressing plants presented in Figs. 1, 2 and Supplementary Fig. S2–S7 were markedly different from that of other proteins exclusively localized in plastidial envelope membranes (cf. Fig. 6 in CITATION), and suggested that AtBT1 and ZmBT1 are also localized in the interior part of plastids. This is in agreement with previous EM immunocytochemical analyses showing that a large amount of ZmBT1 occurs inside the amyloplast in maize endosperm cells (cf. Fig. 4 of CITATION). Furthermore, our observations are consistent with recent reports showing the presence of ZmBT1 and rice BT1 in internal starch granule channels (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). The occurrence of GFP fluorescence in the interior part of plastids of AtBT1–GFP-expressing plants is also consistent with the fluorescence localization pattern in plastids of tobacco mesophyll protoplasts transiently expressing AtBT1–GFP (cf. Fig. 2 in CITATION). To investigate this phenomenon further, we carried out EM immunocytochemical analyses of ZmBT1 in young endosperm cells. Because of the difficulty in sectioning and analyzing plastids with large starch granules, these analyses were carried out with endosperms at early stages of starch accumulation [15 days after pollination (DAP)]. At this developmental stage, endosperm cells exhibited large vacuoles and amyloplasts containing starch grains of different sizes when analyzed by light microscopy (Fig. 5A, B). To preserve antigenicity and ultrastructure for appropriate immunogold assays, endosperm samples were processed and resin embedded at low temperature. EM analyses of 15 DAP endosperm cells showed mitochondria and numerous plastids of different shapes and sizes (Fig. 5C) corresponding to immature amyloplasts accumulating small starch granules, some of them having transverse/radial denser regions corresponding to channels that connect the interior cavity of the starch granule with the outside surface (Fig. 4D, Supplementary Fig. 14A, B) (CITATION). Confirming the occurrence of the dual localization of ZmBT1, EM immunocytochemical analyses revealed that anti-ZmBT1 immunogold labeling was localized at the periphery of amyloplasts (Fig. 5D, E, Supplementary Fig. S14) and mitochondria (Fig. 5F, G), the cytoplasm and other subcellular compartments being essentially free of labeling. Consistent with our fluorescence confocal microscopy analyses of ZmBT1–GFP-expressing plants presented in Fig. 1 and Supplementary Figs. S2–S5, a large amount of the anti-ZmBT1 immunogold labeling was also found over internal regions of amyloplasts and mitochondria (Fig. 5D–G, Supplementary Fig. S14). Since low temperature resins normally provide low electron density and contrast to subcellular structures (cf. Fig. 5C–G), a modification of the processing was performed by adding a contrasting agent during dehydration (see Materials and Methods for details), resulting in a general increase in the electron density of most subcellular structures. As shown in Fig. 6, the pattern of distribution of immunogold labeling was similar to that of Fig. 5, being localized at both internal and peripheral regions of plastids and mitochondria (Fig. 6B–D), and being absent in other subcellular compartments such as the nucleus, endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi, vesicles and vacuoles. Controls avoiding the primary antibody did not provide significant labeling on any subcellular structure (not shown).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The work was carried out using A. thaliana (ecotype Columbia) and potato (S. tuberosum L. cv Desirée) plants constitutively expressing AtBT1–GFP, ZmBT1–GFP, MitTPr–GFP, TP-P541–GFP, TP-ZmBT1–GFP, TP-AtBT1–GFP, ΔTP-ZmBT1–GFP, ΔTP-AtBT1–GFP, TP-P541-ΔTP-ZmBT1–GFP, TP-P541-ΔTP-AtBT1–GFP, MitTPr-ΔTP-ZmBT1–GFP, MitTPr-ΔTP-AtBT1–GFP and GBSS–GFP (Table 1, Supplementary Fig. S1) under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. We also used maize (Z. mays, genotype Hi II) plants ectopically expressing ZmBT1–GFP under the control of the ubiquitin promoter (Table 1, Supplementary Fig. S1). As it is possible that ectopic expression of genes may cause mislocalization of the encoded proteins, we analyzed plants from 10 independent lines per construct to ensure the attainment of reliable data. ZmBT1-derived constructs were produced using a complete ZmBT1 cDNA provided by Arizona Genomics Institute. Complete AtBT1-encoding cDNA was obtained from the RIKEN Arabidopsis cDNA collection. Plasmid constructs were produced using Gateway technology (Supplementary Fig. S1) and confirmed by sequencing. Primers used for PCR amplification of ZmBT1 and AtBT1 and to produce the constructs are listed in Supplementary Table S1. Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation of Arabidopsis and potato was conducted as described by CITATION) and CITATION), respectively. Transgenic maize plants were produced from immature embryo-derived callus cultures using the biolistic gun-mediated method (CITATION) and pAHC25-derived plasmids (CITATION) (Supplementary Fig. S1). Potato and Arabidopsis plants from all lines listed in Table 1 were grown in solid Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 90 mM sucrose and kanamycin at ambient CO2 (350 ppm) in growth chambers under a 16 h light (300 μmol photons s−1 m−2, 20°C)/8 h dark (22°C) regime. ZmBT1–GFP-expressing maize plants were grown in solid MS medium supplemented with 90 mM sucrose and 2 mg l−1 bialaphos (Shinyo Sangyo Co.). Subcellular localization of GFP-tagged proteins was performed using a D-Eclipse C1 confocal microscope (Nikon) equipped with a standard Ar 488 laser excitation, a BA515/30 filter for green emission, a BA650LP filter for red emission and a transmitted light detector for bright field images. Counterstaining of mitochondria was performed with Mito Tracker Deep Red (Invitrogen). Sections of potato tubers were stained for 2 h in staining solution containing MS salts, 90 mM sucrose and 0.5 μM Mito Tracker Deep Red. Mitochondria were visualized using a confocal microscope with an He–Ne 633 laser excitation and a BA650LP filter for red emission. To produce polyclonal antisera against ZmBT1, a 564 bp cDNA coding for the 188 amino acids of the C-terminal region of ZmBT1 was cloned into the pDEST17 expression vector (Invitrogen) to create pDEST-ZmBT1 (Supplementary Fig. S1, Table 1). BL21 C43 (DE3) cells transformed with pDEST-ZmBT1 were grown in 100 ml of liquid LB medium to an absorbance at 600 nm of 0.5 and then 1 mM isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) was added. After 5 h, cells were centrifuged at 6,000×g for 10 min. The pelleted bacteria were resuspended in 6 ml of His-bind binding buffer (Novagen), sonicated and centrifuged at 10,000 × g for 10 min. The supernatant thus obtained was subjected to His-bind chromatography (Novagen). The eluted His-tagged ZmBT1 fragment was then rapidly desalted by ultrafiltration on a Centricon YM-10 device (Amicon). The purified protein was electrophoretically separated by preparative 12% SDS–PAGE and stained with Coomassie blue. An approximately 23 kDa protein band was eluted and utilized to produce polyclonal antisera by immunizing rabbits. Maize kernels at 15 DAP were sliced into equal parts along their longitudinal axis and the central slice was fixed in 4% formaldehyde in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS), pH 7.3 at 4°C overnight. After washing in PBS, samples were dehydrated through a methanol series by progressive lowering of temperature (PLT). In some samples, a modification during PLT was performed in order to enhance the electron density of the structure. After dehydration, samples were immersed in 0.5% uranyl acetate in methanol for 30 min and washed in pure methanol three times, for 30 min each. Finally, all samples were infiltrated and embedded in Lowicryl K4M resin at −30°C and polymerized under UV irradiation. Semi-thin sections were used to analyze the cellular organization of the endosperm under light microscopy and to select the central region of the endosperm for trimming and EM analyses. Lowicryl ultrathin sections were mounted on Formvar-coated nickel grids and used for immunogold labeling as previously described (CITATION). Ultrathin sections from cryoprocessed samples were floated on drops of distilled water, PBS and 5% bovine serum albumin in PBS for 5 min each. They were then incubated at 4°C with anti-ZmBT1 antibodies overnight. After washing with PBS, the sections were incubated with secondary antibodies conjugated to 10 nm gold particles (Bio-Cell) diluted 1/25 in PBS for 45 min. The grids were washed in PBS, rinsed in distilled water and air-dried. Finally the grids were counterstained with 5% uranyl acetate and 1% lead citrate and observed in a JEOL 1010 microscope at 80 kV.
