!~ABS~! Loss-of-function mutations in the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) ENHANCED DISEASE RESISTANCE1 (EDR1) gene confer enhanced resistance to powdery mildew infection, enhanced senescence, and enhanced programmed cell death under both abiotic and biotic stress conditions. All edr1-mediated phenotypes can be suppressed by a specific missense mutation (keg-4) in the KEEP ON GOING (KEG) gene, which encodes a multidomain protein that includes a RING E3 ligase domain, a kinase domain, ankyrin repeats, and HERC2-like (for HECT and RCC1-like) repeats. The molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying this suppression are poorly understood. Using confocal laser scanning microscopy and fluorescent protein fusions, we determined that KEG localizes to trans-Golgi network/early endosome (TGN/EE) vesicles. Both the keg-4 mutation, which is located in the carboxyl-terminal HERC2-like repeats, and deletion of the entire HERC2-like repeats reduced endosomal localization of KEG and increased localization to the endoplasmic reticulum and cytosol, indicating that the HERC2-like repeats facilitate the TGN/EE targeting of KEG. EDR1 colocalized with KEG to the TGN/EE when coexpressed but localized primarily to the endoplasmic reticulum when expressed alone. Yeast two-hybrid and coimmunoprecipitation analyses revealed that EDR1 and KEG physically interact. Deletion of the HERC2-like repeats abolished the interaction between KEG and EDR1 as well as the KEG-induced TGN/EE localization of EDR1, indicating that the recruitment of EDR1 to the TGN/EE is based on a direct interaction between EDR1 and KEG mediated by the HERC2-like repeats. Collectively, these data suggest that EDR1 and KEG function together to regulate endocytic trafficking and/or the formation of signaling complexes on TGN/EE vesicles during stress responses.
!~RES~! To determine the subcellular localization of KEG, super yellow fluorescent protein (sYFP; CITATION) was fused to the C terminus of the full-length KEG open reading frame. We showed that this fusion protein was functional by placing this construct under control of the native KEG promoter and transforming heterozygous keg-1 mutant plants. Phenotypically wild-type plants that were homozygous for the keg-1 insertion were recovered in the T1 generation, indicating that the transgene complemented the keg-1 mutation. This was confirmed in the T2 generation (data not shown). Analysis of transgenic plants by confocal laser scanning microscopy, however, failed to detect a fluorescent signal, indicating that KEG is expressed at very low levels under normal conditions. To enable detection of the KEG-sYFP protein, we placed the KEG-sYFP construct under control of a steroid-inducible promoter (CITATION) and transiently transformed it into Nicotiana benthamiana leaves using Agrobacterium tumefaciens infiltration. Twenty-four hours after treatment with 50 μm dexamethasone, epidermal cells were examined using confocal laser scanning microscopy. In all transformed cells, small fluorescent punctate structures were observed in the cortex of cells (Fig. 1A). In time-lapse imaging, these vesicles alternated between random saltatory and directional movements (Supplemental Movie S1), similar to the previously described movements of Golgi stacks (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To avoid possible mislocalization of KEG caused by the C-terminal fusion with sYFP, we also constructed a KEG N-terminal fusion with mCherry, and a similar localization pattern was observed (Fig. 1B). KEG-sYFP and mCherry-KEG completely overlapped with each other upon coexpression (Fig. 1C), suggesting that the fluorescent protein fusions did not impact the localization of KEG. [[FIGURE]] Since the KEG-sYFP fluorescence pattern resembled both the distribution and movement pattern of Golgi stacks, we performed colocalization experiments with the cis-Golgi cisternae marker GmMan49 (the first 49 amino acids of GmManI) fused with mCherry (CITATION) and with the trans-Golgi cisternae marker α-2,6-sialyltransferase (ST; CITATION) fused with red fluorescent protein (RFP). Surprisingly, in both cases, very little overlap was detected. Instead, KEG-sYFP typically localized adjacent to Golgi stacks, revealing a twin-spot distribution pattern with Golgi stacks (Fig. 1, D–I). Time-lapse live imaging revealed that not all KEG-sYFP-containing vesicles associated with Golgi stacks. Instead, association with Golgi stacks appeared to be transient in nature (Supplemental Movie S1). We also performed analyses in Arabidopsis protoplasts using a native promoter-driven KEG-sYFP construct. The same localization pattern was observed as in N. benthamiana, although at a much lower level (Supplemental Fig. S1), indicating that the localization pattern is not an artifact of heterologous expression in N. benthamiana. The localization pattern of KEG relative to Golgi stacks is similar to what has been previously reported for the TGN/EE (CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, we coexpressed KEG-sYFP with the TGN/EE marker protein SYP61 (CITATION) fused with mCherry at the N terminus. As a control, we also coexpressed KEG-sYFP with mCherry-SYP21, which localizes to the prevacuolar compartment/late endosomes (PVC/LE; CITATION). Upon coexpression, the fluorescence of KEG-sYFP colocalized with mCherry-SYP61, as shown in Figure 1, J to L, and their movement during time-lapse imaging was synchronous (Supplemental Movie S2). In contrast, KEG-sYFP conferred a distinct localization and movement pattern from mCherry-SYP21 (Fig. 1, M–O; Supplemental Movie S3). Furthermore, the movement of KEG-sYFP depended on the actin cytoskeleton, as treatment with latrunculin B, an actin-disrupting drug, blocked its directional movements (Supplemental Movie S4). We thus conclude that KEG-sYFP localizes to TGN/EE vesicles. In plants, the TGN cannot be distinguished from EE (CITATION), hence the dual name. Based on work in animal and yeast systems, the TGN is generally considered to play a role in sorting of newly synthesized proteins to the vacuole or plasma membrane, while EEs are formed by endocytosis of the plasma membrane. It appears, though, that in plant cells, EEs rapidly fuse with TGN vesicles (CITATION); thus, plasma membrane-associated proteins can enter TGN/EE vesicles from both the Golgi-mediated secretory pathway and the endocytic pathway. Furthermore, specific isoforms of vacuolar ATPases that are localized to the TGN/EE are required for the proper function of both the endocytic and secretory pathways, indicating that the TGN/EE functions as a junction between these two pathways (CITATION). Ubiquitination plays an important role in controlling endocytosis and biogenesis of the endomembrane system in plants (CITATION). Because KEG is an E3 ubiquitin ligase and is localized to the endomembrane system, we tested whether loss of KEG affected general endocytic trafficking pathways. To this end, the endocytic tracer dye FM4-64 was used to track the general endocytosis process from the plasma membrane to the central vacuole in root cells of both Columbia (Col-0) wild-type and keg-1 T-DNA insertion knockout lines. As shown in Figure 2, root cells of keg-1 mutants showed normal plasma membrane staining immediately after FM4-64 treatment (Fig. 2, A and E). No differences in FM4-64 staining between keg-1 and wild-type cells were observed at 20 min following FM4-64 application, by which time TGN/EE vesicles were visible (Fig. 2, B and F), at 100 min (Fig. 2, C and G; PVC/LE visible), or at 5 h (Fig. 2, D and H; central vacuole visible). The keg-1 mutant did not show any obvious morphological alterations in any endomembrane structures stained by FM4-64. Taken together, these data suggest that KEG does not control general endocytic trafficking routes from the plasma membrane to the central vacuole or the biogenesis of endomembrane vesicles. [[FIGURE]] As described above, the keg-4 mutation, which is located in the HERC2-like repeat domain, suppresses the enhanced programmed cell death phenotype of edr1 mutant Arabidopsis (CITATION). The finding that KEG-sYFP is primarily localized to the TGN/EE suggested that the enhanced programmed cell death phenotype of edr1 mutants may be related to endomembrane trafficking. Defects in endomembrane trafficking have previously been associated with triggering cell death in other systems (CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, we tested whether the edr1 mutation affected the localization of KEG. For this purpose, edr1 mutant protoplasts were transfected with KEG-sYFP and GmMan49-mCherry and their colocalization pattern was monitored. No change in KEG-sYFP localization was observed in the edr1 mutant background compared with wild-type protoplasts (Supplemental Fig. S2), indicating that loss of EDR1 does not disrupt the localization of KEG-sYFP or the formation of KEG-containing vesicles. To investigate whether the keg-4 mutation altered the normal subcellular localization of KEG-sYFP, we generated a keg-4-sYFP fusion and transiently expressed it in N. benthamiana. The vesicular signal of KEG-sYFP was reduced by the keg-4 mutation, whereas an increase in fluorescence signal was detected in both the cytosol and the endoplasmic reticulum (ER; Fig. 3, A–C). Wild-type KEG-sYFP was not detectable in the cytosol or ER under the same expression conditions (Fig. 3D). [[FIGURE]] The keg-4 mutation is located in the fifth HERC2-like repeat of KEG, changing a conserved Gly to Ser. This observation suggests that the HERC2-like repeats may regulate subcellular localization. To further test this hypothesis, a C-terminal deletion mutant lacking the entire HERC2-like repeat domain was made. This “RKA” construct retained the RING finger E3 ligase domain, the kinase domain, and the ankyrin repeat domain. Compared with KEG-sYFP, RKA-sYFP displayed much less localization to vesicles, instead localizing primarily to the cytoplasm and ER (Fig. 3, E–G). This change in localization was not due to the degradation of RKA-sYFP, as immunoblot analysis revealed RKA-sYFP to be intact (Fig. 3H). These results indicate that HERC2-like repeats play a central role in targeting KEG to the TGN/EE and that the keg-4 mutation partially abrogates this function. Although deletion of the HERC2-like repeats substantially reduced the localization of KEG-sYFP to punctate structures, it did not entirely eliminate it (Fig. 3). To assess whether the remaining punctate structures represented TGN/EE vesicles, we coexpressed keg-4-sYFP and RKA-sYFP with wild-type KEG fused to mCherry (Supplemental Fig. S5). Both KEG derivatives colocalized with wild-type mCherry-KEG, indicating that the punctate structures corresponded to TGN/EE vesicles. Consistent with this conclusion, both keg-4-sYFP and RKA-sYFP showed a twin-spot pattern when coexpressed with the cis-Golgi marker GmMan-mCherry (Supplemental Fig. S5), as observed with wild-type KEG-sYFP (Fig. 1, D–F). To better understand the molecular and cellular mechanisms behind the genetic interaction between EDR1 and KEG, we asked whether the subcellular localizations of EDR1 and KEG are interdependent. First, we transiently expressed a constitutive 35S promoter-driven EDR1-sYFP construct alone in N. benthamiana and observed a mostly cytosolic and ER distribution of the yellow florescent signal (Supplemental Movie S5). A similar localization pattern was also observed in Arabidopsis using protoplast transfection (Supplemental Fig. S4, A–D). Notably, neither system showed localization of EDR1 to TGN/EE-like vesicles, suggesting that EDR1 and KEG do not colocalize. However, when we transiently coexpressed EDR1-sYFP with KEG-mCherry in N. benthamiana, a major portion of EDR1-sYFP relocalized to KEG-containing vesicles (Fig. 4, A–C). To exclude that this localization change was an artifact caused by overexpression of KEG-mCherry, free sYFP was transiently coexpressed with KEG-mCherry in N. benthamiana. No translocation of free sYFP to KEG-containing vesicles was observed (Fig. 4, D–F), suggesting that KEG-induced relocalization to vesicles is specific to EDR1. Also, to demonstrate that the vesicle localization of EDR1-sYFP is specifically induced by KEG but not by other components involved in endocytic trafficking pathways, mCherry-SYP61 was coexpressed with EDR1-sYFP. No vesicular fluorescent signal was observed for EDR1-sYFP (Fig. 4, G–I). Lastly, to confirm that the EDR1-positive vesicles are TGN/EE vesicles, hemagglutinin (HA)-KEG, EDR1-sYFP, and mCherry-SYP61 were transiently coexpressed in N. benthamiana. EDR1-sYFP colocalized with mCherry-SYP61, showing that EDR1 localizes to TGN/EE vesicles when coexpressed with KEG (Fig. 4, J–L). We also observed that KEG-mCherry and EDR1-sYFP colocalized when coexpressed in Arabidopsis protoplasts (Fig. 5, A–E), indicating that this colocalization is not an artifact caused by expression in a heterologous system. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] As demonstrated above, deletion of the HERC2-like repeats dramatically reduced KEG’s association with the TGN/EE but did not totally abolish it. To test whether the remaining TGN/EE-associated RKA protein can still mediate the relocalization of EDR1, we transiently coexpressed EDR1-sYFP and RKA-mCherry in Arabidopsis protoplasts. Deletion of the HERC2-like repeats abolished EDR1 localization to the TGN/EE (Fig. 5, F–J), indicating that the HERC2-like repeats are required for this process. However, the keg-4 mutation did not block EDR1-sYFP relocalization (Fig. 5, K–O), suggesting that the keg-4 mutation does not completely eliminate the function of the HERC2-like repeats. The HERC2-like repeats by themselves fused with mCherry did not display a clear vesicular localization pattern (data not shown), suggesting that targeting of KEG to the TGN/EE requires both the RKA domain and the HERC2-like repeats. The KEG-dependent recruitment of EDR1 to TGN/EE vesicles suggested that EDR1 and KEG might physically interact. We used yeast two-hybrid analysis to test this hypothesis. No direct interaction between wild-type EDR1 and KEG was detected (Fig. 6A). However, the interaction between a kinase and its substrate can sometimes be too transient to detect in yeast two-hybrid assays. In order to slow the process of EDR1 dissociation from its substrate, a “substrate trap” version of EDR1 (stEDR1) was generated. The kinase domain of EDR1 was mutated (D810A) to disrupt its phosphotransfer domain, which is necessary for substrate phosphorylation, thus stabilizing the potential interaction between EDR1 and its substrates (CITATION). Significantly, stEDR1 interacted with full-length KEG (Fig. 6A), suggesting that KEG may be a substrate of EDR1. The substrate trap mutation in stEDR1 did not affect its endosomal localization upon coexpression with KEG (Supplemental Fig. S3). Consistent with the finding that the HERC2-like repeats are required for EDR1 localization to the TGN/EE, deletion of the HERC2-like repeats abrogated stEDR1:KEG interaction in yeast (Fig. 6A), supporting the conclusion that the KEG-dependent EDR1 localization to the TGN/EE was based on a direct interaction between EDR1 and KEG mediated by the HERC2-like repeats. [[FIGURE]] To confirm the interaction between EDR1 and KEG in planta, we performed coimmunoprecipitation analyses using transient expression in N. benthamiana. Consistent with the yeast two-hybrid analysis, stEDR1-HA coimmunoprecipitated with KEG-Myc (Fig. 6B), demonstrating that the stEDR1:KEG interaction occurs in planta. In contrast to the yeast two-hybrid results, wild-type EDR1-HA also coimmunoprecipitated with KEG-Myc, although this interaction appeared to be slightly weaker than with stEDR1. Coimmunoprecipitation of RKA-Myc with either EDR1 or stEDR1 was not detectable, indicating that the HERC2-like repeats are required for EDR1:KEG interaction (Fig. 6B). To test whether immunoprecipitation of stEDR1-HA resulted in nonspecific precipitation of other TGN/EE-localized proteins, we included Myc-SYP61 as an additional control. Myc-SYP61 did not coimmunoprecipitate with stEDR1-HA, indicating that the EDR1:KEG interaction is specific and not the result of bulk precipitation of TGN/EE vesicles (Fig. 6B). Because KEG appears to be endomembrane associated and many membrane-associated proteins are known to oligomerize (CITATION), we asked whether KEG interacts with itself and, if so, which domain is necessary and/or sufficient. Yeast two-hybrid analysis showed that full-length KEG can interact with itself (Fig. 7A). To confirm that KEG:KEG interaction occurs in planta, we performed coimmunoprecipitation analyses using transient expression in N. benthamiana. A full-length KEG-Myc construct was transiently expressed with KEG-sYFP, RKA-sYFP, or HERC2-sYFP. RPS5, a plant disease resistance protein, served as a negative control. Consistent with the yeast two-hybrid result, KEG-sYFP coimmunoprecipitated with KEG-Myc (Fig. 7B, left panel), demonstrating that KEG:KEG interaction occurs in planta. Coimmunoprecipitation of RKA-sYFP with full-length KEG-Myc was much weaker, whereas HERC2-sYFP coimmunoprecipitated strongly with full-length KEG-Myc (Fig. 7B, left panel). None of these three constructs coimmunoprecipitated with RPS5-Myc, demonstrating that the KEG:KEG interaction was specific (Fig. 7B, right panel). Taken together, these data suggest that KEG can at least dimerize in vivo and that the HERC2-like repeats are required for this interaction. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) seeds were surface sterilized with 50% (v/v) bleach and 0.1% Triton X-100. Two days after stratification at 4°C, seeds were germinated and grown on half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium containing 0.8% agar and 1% Suc under a photoperiod of 9 h of light and 15 h of dark at 23°C. Seven-day-old seedlings were transferred from half-strength Murashige and Skoog plates to MetroMix 360 soil (Sun Gro Horticulture). Nicotiana benthamiana plants used for transient protein expression were grown under the same conditions, except that seeds were planted directly into MetroMix 360. Fusion of epitope tags and fluorescent proteins to KEG, EDR1, and various endomembrane marker proteins was accomplished using a multisite Gateway cloning strategy (Invitrogen) as follows. The full-length KEG open reading frame (At5g13530; CITATION) was PCR amplified from a cDNA template and recombined into the multisite Gateway entry vectors pBSDONR P1-P4 (an ampicillin-resistant derivative of pDONR221 P1-P4) and pBSDONR P4r-P2 (an ampicillin-resistant derivative of pDONR221 P4r-P3r in which the attP3r sequence was replaced with attP2) using Gateway BP Clonase II (Invitrogen). Similar “P1-P4” constructs were made for the RKA and HERC2-like repeats region of KEG, which span bases 1 to 2,547 and 2,548 to 4,875 of the KEG open reading frame, as well as for the full-length EDR1 open reading frame (At1g08720). “P4r-P2” constructs were made for full-length open reading frame clones of SYP21 (At5g16830) and SYP61 (At1g28490). Both P1-P4 and P4r-P2 constructs were made for sYFP (CITATION), mCherry, 3× epitope (HA), and a 5× c-Myc epitope. The keg-4 missense mutation (G1144S) was introduced into KEG full-length clones using the QuickChange site-directed mutagenesis kit (Stratagene). The substrate trap mutation in EDR1 (D810A) was also created using the QuickChange kit. To fuse proteins of interest with C-terminal epitope tags or fluorescent proteins, a P1-P4 clone (e.g. KEG) was mixed with a P4r-P2 tag (e.g. sYFP) and the desired destination vector containing attR1 and attR2 sites (e.g. pEarleyGate100; CITATION) and recombined using Gateway LR Clonase II (Invitrogen). To construct N-terminal fusions, a P4r-P2 clone of the protein of interest was mixed with a P1-P4 clone of the tag and the desired destination vector. All clones were verified for correct construction using DNA sequencing. The primers used to create the above constructs are listed in Supplemental Table S1. For stable transformation of Arabidopsis, the above pBSDONR constructs were recombined with the destination vector pEarleyGate100 (CITATION), which drives the expression of transgenes using a cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter, or with a modified version of the vector pMDC32 (CITATION). To produce the latter vector, the 2x35S promoter of pMDC32 was replaced with the KEG native promoter (930 bp of DNA upstream of the KEG start codon) using KpnI and HindIII restriction sites flanking the 2x35S promoter region. For transient transformation of N. benthamiana leaves and Arabidopsis protoplasts, the above pBSDONR constructs were recombined with the pTA7002-GW destination vector (CITATION; CITATION) to generate dexamethasone-inducible protein constructs. We also obtained previously constructed protein fusions for ER-localized mCherry and cis-Golgi-localized mCherry from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (stocks CD3-960 and CD3-968). The ST-RFP construct (trans-Golgi localized; CITATION) was obtained from Dr. Jeanmarie Verchot-Lubicz at Oklahoma State University. Plasmids were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 (pMP90) by electroporation with selection on Luria-Bertani plates containing 50 μg mL−1 kanamycin sulfate (Sigma) and 20 μg mL−1 gentamycin (Gibco). Arabidopsis plants were transformed using the floral-dip method (CITATION). Transgenic plants were selected either by growing on half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium with 0.8% agar and 30 μg mL−1 hygromycin B (Sigma) or by spraying 1-week-old seedlings grown in MetroMix 360 with 300 μm BASTA (Finale) three times at 2-d intervals. Transformants selected on plates were transplanted to pots and allowed to set seeds. For complementation of the keg-1 mutant, heterozygous T-DNA insertion mutants (SALK_049542) were used for dipping, and homozygous insertion lines were confirmed by PCR in the T1 generation. Primers used for genotyping are listed in Supplemental Table S1. The full-length open reading frames of EDR1, EDR1 (D810A), and KEG were cloned into the DNA-binding domain vector pDEST32 (Invitrogen ProQuest two-hybrid system) and subsequently transformed into yeast strain AH109 by electroporation and selected on synthetic dextrose (SD)-Leu medium. The full-length open reading frame of KEG as well as the RKA and HERC2-like repeat domains were cloned into the activation domain vector pDEST22 and subsequently transformed into yeast strain Y187 by electroporation and selected on SD-Trp medium. Mating between the AH109 and Y187 strains carrying the relevant constructs was then performed in 2× yeast peptone dextrose A plus 0.003% adenine at 30°C for 20 h. Mating cultures were then diluted and plated on SD-Trp-Leu and SD-Trp-Leu-His. Agrobacterium GV3101 (pMP90) strains transformed with the dexamethasone-inducible constructs described above were grown and prepared for transient expression as described previously (CITATION). Agrobacterium cultures were resuspended in water at an optical density at 600 nm of 0.8. For coexpression of multiple constructs, suspensions were mixed in equal ratios. Bacterial suspension mixtures were infiltrated using a needleless syringe into expanding leaves of 4-week-old N. benthamiana plants. Protein expression was induced by spraying the leaves with 50 μm dexamethasone (Sigma) 40 h after injection. Samples were collected for either protein extraction or microscopic imaging 24 h after hormone application. For total protein extraction, four leaves of infiltrated N. benthamiana were collected and ground in lysis buffer (50 mm Tris, pH 7.5, 150 mm NaCl, 0.1% Nonidet P-40, and Plant Proteinase Inhibitor Cocktail [Sigma]). Samples were centrifuged at 10,000 rpm at 4°C for 5 min, and supernatants were transferred to new tubes. Total proteins were mixed with 4× SDS loading buffer at a ratio of 3:1 and boiled for 5 min before loading. Immunoprecipitations were performed as described previously (CITATION) using c-Myc Monoclonal Antibody-Agarose Beads (Clontech) or Anti-HA Affinity Matrix (Roche). The immunocomplexes were resuspended in 50 μL of 1× SDS loading buffer and boiled for 5 min. Total proteins and/or immunocomplexes were separated by electrophoresis on a 4% to 20% gradient Tris-HEPES-SDS polyacrylamide gel (Thermo Scientific). Proteins from duplicate gels and filters were transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane and probed with anti-c-Myc-peroxidase (Roche), anti-GFP-peroxidase (Thermo Scientific), or anti-HA-peroxidase (Sigma). The isolation and transient transfection of leaf mesophyll cell protoplasts from Arabidopsis plants (3 weeks old) was performed at room temperature following published procedures (CITATION). A total of 20 μg of plasmid DNA was used for each transfection experiment (plasmids were mixed in an equal ratio for cotransfections). For dexamethasone-inducible constructs, hormone was added immediately after transfection. Protoplasts were kept in the dark for 16 h following transfection before imaging using confocal laser scanning microscopy. To image fluorescent protein fusions in live cells, confocal laser scanning microscopy was performed using a Leica SP5 AOBS inverted confocal microscope (Leica Microsystems) equipped with a 63×, numerical aperture-1.2 water objective. sYFP (excited by the 514-nm argon laser) fluorescence was detected using a custom 522- to 545-nm band-pass emission filter, whereas mCherry fluorescence (excited using the 561-nm helium-neon laser) was detected using a custom 595- to 620-nm band-pass emission filter. To obtain three-dimensional images, a series of Z-stack images were collected and then combined and processed using the three-dimensional image-analysis software IMARIS 7.0 (Bitplane Scientific Software; http://www.bitplane.com). To test whether vesicle movement was dependent on actin fibers, actin was depolymerized by infiltrating leaves with 25 μm latrunculin B (Calbiochem; stock solution, 10 mm in dimethyl sulfoxide) 1 h prior to imaging. To stain membranes with FM4-64 dye (Invitrogen), whole Arabidopsis seedlings were incubated in 1 μm FM4-64 for 2 min, transferred to liquid half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium, and incubated in the dark at room temperature for the indicated times. Sequence data for the genes described in this study can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under the following accession numbers: KEG (At5g13530), EDR1 (At1g08720), SYP21 (At5g16830), and SYP61 (At1g28490). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Subcellular localization of native promoter-driven KEG-sYFP in Arabidopsis protoplasts. Supplemental Figure S2. Localization of KEG-sYFP in Col-0 wild-type and edr1 mutant protoplasts. Supplemental Figure S3. stEDR1 colocalizes with KEG. Supplemental Figure S4. Subcellular localization of 35S:EDR1-sYFP in Arabidopsis protoplasts. Supplemental Figure S5. Mutations in the HERC2-like repeats do not change the identity of KEG vesicular structures. Supplemental Table S1. Primers used for this work. Supplemental Movie S1. Time-lapse movie showing that KEG-sYFP-containing vesicles move independently from GmMan49-mCherry-labeled Golgi. Supplemental Movie S2. Time-lapse movie showing colocalization of KEG-sYFP with mCherry-SYP61 during vesicle movement. Supplemental Movie S3 Time-lapse movie showing independent movement of KEG-sYFP-containing vesicles and mCherry-SYP21-containing vesicles. Supplemental Movie S4. Time-lapse movie showing that latrunculin B application inhibits the movement of KEG-sYFP-containing vesicles. Supplemental Movie S5. Three-dimensional image of EDR1-sYFP localization in an N. benthamiana epidermal cell.
