!~ABS~! l-Ara, an important constituent of plant cell walls, is found predominantly in the furanose rather than in the thermodynamically more stable pyranose form. Nucleotide sugar mutases have been demonstrated to interconvert UDP-l-arabinopyranose (UDP-Arap) and UDP-l-arabinofuranose (UDP-Araf) in rice (Oryza sativa). These enzymes belong to a small gene family encoding the previously named Reversibly Glycosylated Proteins (RGPs). RGPs are plant-specific cytosolic proteins that tend to associate with the endomembrane system. In Arabidopsis thaliana, the RGP protein family consists of five closely related members. We characterized all five RGPs regarding their expression pattern and subcellular localizations in transgenic Arabidopsis plants. Enzymatic activity assays of recombinant proteins expressed in Escherichia coli identified three of the Arabidopsis RGP protein family members as UDP-l-Ara mutases that catalyze the formation of UDP-Araf from UDP-Arap. Coimmunoprecipitation and subsequent liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry analysis revealed a distinct interaction network between RGPs in different Arabidopsis organs. Examination of cell wall polysaccharide preparations from RGP1 and RGP2 knockout mutants showed a significant reduction in total l-Ara content (12–31%) compared with wild-type plants. Concomitant downregulation of RGP1 and RGP2 expression results in plants almost completely deficient in cell wall–derived l-Ara and exhibiting severe developmental defects.
!~RES~! The expression patterns of Arabidopsis RGPs in various tissues such as roots, seedlings, rosette leaves, stems, inflorescences, and siliques at different developmental stages were assessed by quantitative (q) RT-PCR. RGP1, RGP2, and RGP5 transcripts were detected in all examined tissues, with highest amounts in flowers, seedlings, and developing siliques. In contrast, RGP3 and RGP4 transcripts were almost exclusively detected in siliques, with the highest levels 6 to 8 d post anthesis (Figure 1). [[FIGURE]] To obtain better spatially and developmentally resolved information on RGP expression, we stably expressed these proteins as fusion proteins carrying a C-terminal yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) tag driven by their native promoters in Arabidopsis. RGP1-YFP, RGP2-YFP, and RGP5-YFP proteins were detected in all major Arabidopsis organs (Figure 2). In immature plants, RGP1-YFP was predominantly expressed in shoot (Figure 2A) and root (Figure 2D) apical meristems. During the reproductive stage, expression was detected in pollen (Figure 2C), phloem and epidermal cells of inflorescence stems (Figure 2B), leaves (Figure 2E), and seed coat epidermal cells (Figures 2F and 2G). RGP2-YFP was predominantly expressed in the epidermis and phloem of inflorescence stems (Figure 2I), root meristems (Figure 2K), and pollen (Figure 2J). Strong YFP signals were also observed originating from leaf trichome cells of immature plants (Figure 2H), leaf epidermis (Figure 2L), and seed coat epidermal cells (Figures 2M and 2N). Similarly, RGP5-YFP appeared to be ubiquitously expressed throughout plant development (Figures 2O–2U). RGP5 expression was detected in leaves (Figure 2S), stem epidermis and phloem (Figure 2P), root vasculature as well as meristems (Figure 2R), and seed coat epidermis (Figures 2T and 2U). In contrast, RGP3 and RGP4 expression was restricted to developing seeds (Figures 2V–2Y). RGP3-YFP signals were detected in areas corresponding to the endosperm of developing seeds at the linear and bent cotyledon stage (Figures 2V and 2W). RGP4-YFP was only observed in seed coat epidermal cells of seeds at the linear to mature cotyledon stage (Figures 2X and 2Y; seed developmental stages adopted from CITATION). [[FIGURE]] RGPs are predicted not to contain any transmembrane domain or known targeting sequence. To investigate the subcellular localizations of the Arabidopsis RGPs, we analyzed stably and transiently expressed RGP-YFP fusions driven by their native or the constitutive cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. In our RGPpro:RGP-YFP approach, RGP1 and RGP2 exhibited an identical subcellular localization pattern. Both proteins localized to moving, punctate structures apparently corresponding to Golgi vesicles as well as to the cytosol (Figures 2E, 2G, 2L, and 2N). In addition, we observed RGP1-YFP and RGP2-YFP signals originating from larger particles floating within the cytosol (Figures 2E–2G and 2L–2N). RGP5-YFP appeared predominantly to be localized to the cytosol and, to a lesser extent, associated with Golgi-like particles (Figures 2S and 2U). Although RGP3-YFP and RGP4-YFP were strongly expressed in developing seeds, no conclusive information could be obtained on their subcellular localizations using this approach. The integrities and functionalities of RGP-YFP fusion proteins expressed under the control of their native promoters were confirmed by immunoblotting and enzyme activity assays using immunoprecipitated proteins (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Further proof of functionality and correct targeting of the YFP fusion proteins was obtained by complementation analysis of rgp1-1 and rgp2-1 mutant lines. Introduction of the RGP1pro:RGP1-YFP and RGP2pro:RGP2-YFP constructs into the respective mutant backgrounds fully complemented their biochemical phenotypes (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). When stably expressed under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter in Arabidopsis, RGP1-YFP, RGP2-YFP, RGP3-YFP, and RGP4-YFP signals could only be observed originating from larger particles floating within the cytosol, most likely corresponding to protein aggregates. By contrast, RGP5-YFP localization appeared to be similar to its subcellular localization pattern when expressed under the control of the native promoter (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). When transiently expressed in tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) leaves, RGP1-YFP and RGP2-YFP fluorescence originated from Golgi-like particles as well as from the cytosol and RGP5-YFP appeared to be predominantly localized to the cytosol. Similarly, RGP3-YFP and RGP4-YFP fluorescence originated from Golgi-like particles and from the cytosol (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). To obtain further information on RGP subcellular localizations, we separated plant cell extracts derived from RGPpro:RGP-HA–expressing transgenic lines into cytosolic, peripheral membrane, and membrane protein fractions. As shown in Figure 3A, all five RGPs were predominantly detected in cytosolic and peripheral membrane protein fractions, and except for RGP4, none of the RGPs was detected in detergent-solubilized membrane fractions. As controls, cytosolic Fru-1,6-bisphosphatase (cFBPase; cytosolic protein; CITATION), secretion-associated and Ras-related (Sar1; peripheral vesicular GTPase; CITATION), and calreticulin (endoplasmic reticulum [ER] resident protein; CITATION) were predominantly detected in their proposed subcellular fractions. To differentiate between peripheral membrane and luminal proteins, we subjected microsomal fractions to proteinase K treatments followed by SDS-PAGE and immunoblotting. Whereas all five RGPs were detected in untreated microsomal fractions, proteinase K treatment completely degraded the corresponding proteins. As a control, calreticulins were protected from degradation, indicative for intactness of ER cisternae and Golgi vesicles under our experimental conditions (Figure 3B). [[FIGURE]] The five Arabidopsis RGPs were heterologously expressed as hexahistidine tag fusion proteins in Escherichia coli and affinity purified for subsequent enzymatic assays. Immunoblot analysis of the purified proteins revealed two predominant bands for each protein detected by the anti-hexahistidine antibody within the range of ~45 to 50 kD, which is in agreement with their predicted molecular masses (RGP1, 40.6 kD; RGP2, 40.9 kD; RGP3, 41.3 kD; RGP4, 41.9 kD; RGP5, 38.6 kD; plus C-terminal peptide containing the V5 epitope and the polyhistidine tag of ~4 kD; Figure 4A). Recombinant proteins were tested for UDP-Ara mutase activity as described by CITATION. As substrates, we provided either UDP-Arap or UDP-Araf. The corresponding reaction products were separated by HPLC and subsequently identified by electrospray ionization-mass spectrometry (ESI-MS). Mutase activity was observed for recombinant RGP1, RGP2, and RGP3. In contrast, HPLC analyses of enzymatic reactions containing recombinant RGP4 or RGP5 did not reveal any additional peaks compared with control reactions (Figures 4C and 4D). When UDP-Araf was used as a substrate, a rapid conversion into UDP-Arap was detected for recombinant RGP1, RGP2, and RGP3, with activities RGP1 > RGP2 ≥ RGP3 (Figure 4D). When UDP-Arap was used as a substrate, only small amounts (~5%) were converted into UDP-Araf by the active enzymes (Figure 4C), consistent with a thermodynamic equilibrium of 9:1 as observed in rice (CITATION, CITATION). LC-ESI-MS analysis of the UDP-Arap and UDP-Araf peaks identified these compounds with a molecular mass [M-H]− of 535.35 and 535.36, respectively, which is consistent with the calculated theoretical mass [M-H]− of 535.28 (Figures 4E and 4F). When other UDP-sugars (UDP-Gal, UDP-Xyl, UDP-Glc, GDP-Man, and GDP-Fuc) were provided as substrate, no additional peaks or reduction of the corresponding substrate was observed when reacted with any of the recombinant RGP proteins or mixtures thereof. The specificity for UDP-Ara is in contrast to the flavin adenine dinucleotide–containing UDP-Gal mutases known from several microorganisms, which have activity with both UDP-d-Gal and UDP-l-Ara (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] RGPs from various plant species have been demonstrated to form homoprotein or heteroprotein complexes (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To investigate the Arabidopsis RGPs regarding protein complex formation, composition, and enzymatic activities, we stably expressed the corresponding proteins in Arabidopsis as translational hemagglutinin (HA) tag fusions under the control of their native promoters. The RGP-HA proteins were subsequently immunoprecipitated from total protein extracts derived from seedlings (RGP1-HA, RGP2-HA, and RGP5-HA; similar results were obtained using leaf or flower protein extracts) or protein extracts derived from developing siliques (RGP3-HA and RGP4-HA). SDS-PAGE separation followed by Sypro Ruby protein gel staining revealed multiple bands in each of the RGP-HA immunoprecipitates with at least three components, which is indicative of an association in a protein complex (Figure 5A). Immunoblots detected the corresponding HA-tagged polypeptide as a single band in each of the five RGP-HA extracts (Figure 5B). LC-ESI-MS/MS was used to identify the corresponding complex components in in-solution tryptic digested extracts. Unambiguously identified proteins (sequence coverage > 10% and at least one unique peptide match for a certain RGP protein) are listed in Table 1 and peptide sequences in Supplemental Table 1 online. When RGP1-HA was used as bait, RGP2 and RGP5 were coprecipitated. Reciprocal interactions were observed for RGP2-HA (coimmunoprecipitated with RGP1 and RGP5) and RGP5-HA (coprecipitated with RGP1 and RGP2) pull-down experiments. In protein samples derived from developing siliques expressing RGP3-HA, RGP1 coprecipitated with the tagged RGP3 protein. RGP1 and RGP2 were coprecipitated when the RGP4-HA protein was used as bait. [[FIGURE]] Identified Protein Complex Components in RGP Immunoprecipitates Immunoprecipitated protein complexes were tested for UDP-Ara mutase activity with UDP-Arap (see Supplemental Figure 5 online) and UDP-Araf (Figure 5C) as substrates. HPLC analysis of the corresponding reaction products revealed mutase activity in all five immunoprecipitated extracts (Figure 5C), which supports our proteomic data demonstrating the existence of at least one active mutase in each protein complex. RGP1 and RGP2 were previously proposed to act redundantly in pollen development. Double knockouts were determined to be male gametophyte lethal, with an arrest in pollen mitosis, whereas single mutants did not exhibit phenotypic alterations compared with wild-type plants (CITATION). However, single mutant lines have not been analyzed with regard to their cell wall monosaccharide composition. To further characterize RGP function and the impact of UDP-Arap/UDP-Araf interconversion on plant development, we analyzed single RGP1 and RGP2 mutants and created a hairpin (hp) construct (named hpRGP1/2) specifically targeting RGP1 and RGP2 expression. Two independent RGP1 mutant lines, rgp1-1 and rgp1-2, carrying a T-DNA insertion either in the first or the third intron, respectively, were identified in the GABI-KAT collection (CITATION), and two independent RGP2 mutant alleles, rgp2-1 and rgp2-2, carrying a T-DNA insertion in the third exon or the first intron, respectively, were identified in the SIGnAL collection (CITATION). Plants carrying homozygous insertions were selected by PCR. The effect of the T-DNA insertion on mRNA expression levels was examined using qRT-PCR. No transcripts were detected in homozygous rgp1-1 and rgp2-2 individuals, and >90% reductions in transcript amounts were determined for plants carrying the rgp1-2 and rgp2-1 alleles (Figure 6A). Even though single knockout lines did not show any growth phenotypic alterations compared with accession Columbia-0 (Col-0) wild-type plants, cell wall monosaccharide analysis revealed a significant reduction in total cell wall Ara content in RGP1 mutants (rgp1-1, 16.0% ± 0.3%, P ≤ 0.001; rgp1-2, 12% ± 5%, P ≤ 0.01) and RGP2 mutants (rgp2-1, 29% ± 8%, P ≤ 0.001; rgp2-2, 30% ± 2%, P ≤ 10−5; Figure 6B). Other cell wall sugars were not significantly altered when compared with the Col-0 wild type (see Supplemental Table 2 online). Consistently, determination of UDP-Ara mutase activities in cytosolic and microsomal protein extracts using UDP-Araf as substrate revealed about a 50% reduction in rgp1 and rgp2 mutants compared with the Col-0 wild type (Table 2). This was further corroborated by quantifying UDP-Arap, UDP-Xyl, and UDP-Glc in rgp1 and rgp2 plant seedlings. Indeed, in the mutant plants, UDP-Arap was increased by ~42 and 67% in the rgp1 and rgp2 mutants, respectively. Moreover, the direct precursor of UDP-Arap, UDP-Xyl, was also increased in these mutants. Traces of UDP-Araf could be found both in the mutant lines as well as in the wild type and hinted at a reduction in the mutant lines, but amounts were below the limit of quantification (Table 3). [[FIGURE]] Mutase Activities in rgp1, rgp2, and hpRGP1/2 Lines UDP-Sugar Contents in the Col-0 Wild-Type and rgp1 and rgp2 Mutant Lines To examine the consequences of a simultaneous downregulation of RGP1 and RGP2 expression on cell wall monosaccharide composition and developmental phenotype habits, we generated plant lines expressing a hairpin construct specifically targeting RGP1 and RGP2 expression. qRT-PCR analysis of nine randomly selected independent transgenic individuals revealed three classes of lines with varying degrees of RGP1 and RGP2 expression (Figure 6A). The first class contained lines with slightly reduced expression or expression levels similar to control plants transformed with an empty vector (hpRGP1/2-6), the second class contained plants with an intermediate (37–90%) reduction in expression (hpRGP1/2-2, -5, -4, -8, and -3), and the third class was represented by lines with a strong (90–97%) reduction in RGP1 and RGP2 expression (hpRGP1/2-1, -7, and -9). As shown in Figure 6A, expression of RGP5 was not affected in hpRGP1/2 lines. Subsequent monosaccharide analysis of cell wall polysaccharide extracts derived from hpRGP1/2 lines revealed a strong correlation between the level of RGP1/RGP2 expression and total cell wall Ara content (RGP1, r = 0.88; RGP2, r = 0.94; average, r = 0.92; Figure 6C). Up to an ~80% reduction in cell wall polysaccharide Ara content was measured for the hpAtRGP1/2-1, -7, and -9 lines, which exhibited the strongest reduction in RGP1 and RGP2 expression (Figures 6A and 6B; see Supplemental Table 3 online). Moreover, the reduction in RGP1 and RGP2 expression and correspondingly reduced cell wall Ara content was accompanied by severe developmental defects compared with control lines (Figure 6D). Plants with a 60 to 90% (RGP1) and 37 to 83% (RGP2) reduction in expression, resulting in a 9 to 42% reduction in Ara content, were phenotypically indistinguishable from control plants. In contrast, hpRGP1/2-1, -7, and -9 lines with reductions of ≥94 and ≥87% in RGP1 and RGP2 expression, respectively, and a subsequent reduction in total cell wall Ara of ≥69% were severely developmentally retarded, resulting in dwarf phenotypes (Figure 6D). Notably, the majority of all hpRGP1/2 transgenic lines showed arrested development and died immediately after selection. Determination of UDP-Ara mutase activities in cytosolic and microsomal protein extracts using UDP-Araf as substrate revealed >95% reduction in hpRGP1/2 lines compared with control lines transformed with an empty vector (Table 2). Analysis of sugar composition in cell wall preparations from wild-type (empty vector control [EVC]) and hpRGP1/2 lines suggested a slightly altered composition besides the 83% reduction in Ara (Table 4, total; two-way analysis of variance [ANOVA], P < 0.003). A closer inspection indicated that Gal and Rha were disproportionately increased in the hpRGP1/2 lines. To further investigate the impact of reduced UDP-Arap/UDP-Araf interconversion on different cell wall polymers, we extracted the cell wall preparations sequentially with cyclohexanediaminetetraacetic acid (CDTA) and Na2CO3. The 80 to 90% decrease in l-Ara was similar in all fractions (Table 4). Neither the CDTA fraction nor the Na2CO3 fraction from the hpRGP1/2 lines showed any significant differences in sugar composition besides the decrease in Ara. In contrast, the increase in Gal and Rha observed in the total cell wall preparations was also evident in the residue after extraction with CDTA and Na2CO3. Furthermore, while GalA content did not differ in total amount, it showed a significantly different extractability between the control and hpRGP1/2 lines (two-way ANOVA, P < 0.0007). These observations indicate that the plants respond to the decrease in Ara (including pectic arabinan) by increasing rhamnogalacturonan I (RG I) polymers. However, RG I in the hpRGP1/2 walls is less easily extracted. Monosaccharide Composition of Plant Cell Wall Polysaccharide Fractions Derived from the Wild-Type (EVC) and hpRGP1/2 Lines Since l-Ara in arabinan side chains is a major constituent of pectin and the mucilage secretory cells of the Arabidopsis seed coat constitute a prominent model system for cell wall establishment, in particular for pectin synthesis and modification (reviewed in CITATION), we analyzed hpRGP1/2-derived seeds for mucilage extrusion. The seed mucilage can be visualized by staining with ruthenium red (CITATION). Staining of water-imbibed hpRGP1/2 mutant seeds derived from lines -7 and -9, which had the greatest reduction in Ara contents, revealed an immediate solubilization of the outer mucilage and only faint staining of the inner mucilage. In contrast, wild-type (EVC) and hpRGP1/2-1 seeds showed intense spherical staining of the inner and outer mucilage, which was still attached to the seed (Figure 6E). Since we found RGP5 to be a third component of the RGP1/RGP2 protein complex, we created a hairpin construct specifically targeting RGP5 expression (named hpRGP5). However, repression of RGP5 expression to as low as 15% of the wild-type level in nine randomly selected transgenic lines (see Supplemental Figure 6 online) did not result in any morphological alterations or significant differences in the cell wall monosaccharide composition (Figure 6B; see Supplemental Table 3 online).
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana Col-0 was obtained from the ABRC (http://abrc.osu.edu/). T-DNA insertion mutants rgp2-1 (Salk_132152) and rgp2-2 (Salk_148500) were localized in the SIGnAL Salk collection (http://signal.salk.edu/) and rgp1-1 (GK-652F12) and rgp1-2 (GK-844C11) in the GABI-Kat collection (http://www.gabi-kat.de/) and obtained from the ABRC. Plants were germinated and grown on soil (PRO-MIX; Premier Horticulture) in a growth chamber under short-day light conditions (10-h photoperiod [120 μmol·m−2·s−1] at 22°C and 60% RH/14 h of dark at 22°C and 60% RH). After 4 weeks, plants were transferred to long-day conditions (16-h photoperiod [120 μmol·m−2·s−1] at 22°C and 60% RH/8 h of dark at 22°C and 60% RH). Arabidopsis plants were transformed using Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV 3101 pmp90 as described by CITATION via the floral dip method. For BASTA selection, seeds were germinated on soil as described above and sprayed every 2 d for a total of five times with a glufosinate-ammonium (Crescent Chemical) solution (40 μg/mL). Resistant plants were transferred to new pots and further grown as described above. For kanamycin selection, seeds were germinated on half-concentrated Murashige and Skoog medium (CITATION) supplemented with 1% (w/v) Suc, 75 μg/mL kanamycin, and 100 μg/mL cefotaxime (Sigma-Aldrich) and solidified with 0.7% (w/v) agar under a 16-h photoperiod (120 μmol·m−2·s−1, 22°C). After 10 d, plants were transferred to soil. Amino acid sequences were retrieved by searching public databases using the BLAST algorithm (CITATION) at the National Center for Biotechnology Information (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/). Deduced amino acid sequences were aligned using the ClustalX program (CITATION) with the default parameter. Phylogenetic trees were calculated using the MEGA application (CITATION) with the neighbor-joining method with bootstrap values generated from 1000 bootstrap samples. Only bootstrap values of >70% were considered to be significant (CITATION), and bootstrap values of <60% are not shown. Sequenced, error-free open reading frame clones for Arabidopsis RGP1 (U16497), RGP2 (U12851), RGP4 (U20586), and RGP5 (U10383) were obtained from the Salk/Stanford/PGEC consortium (CITATION). RGP3 was cloned from cDNA prepared from Arabidopsis silique RNA. Sequences without a native stop codon were PCR amplified using the following primer pairs: RGP1-fwd (5′-CACCATGGTTGAGCCGGCGAACACCGTT-3′) and RGP1-rev (5′-AGCTTTAGTGGGTGGGTTAAGCT-3′), RGP2-fwd (5′-CACCATGGTTGAGCCGGCGAATACT-3′) and RGP2-rev (5′-AGCTTTGCCACTGGCTGCTGGT-3′), RGP3-fwd (5′-CACCATGGCGCAATTGTATTCTTCC-3′) and RGP3-rev (5′-ATTTTTGCCTTTTGGTGCCTCAGCCT-3′), RGP4-fwd (5′-CACCATGGCGGGCTACAACCTCGAAGCTA-3′) and RGP4-rev (5′-CTTGGCCTTGACATCTTTGCCA-3′), and RGP5-fwd (5′-CACCATGTCTTTGGCCGAGATAAACA-3′) and RGP5-rev (5′-AGCGCTAGAATTAACAGAATTCC-3′). The resulting PCR products were introduced into the pENTR/SD/D-TOPO cloning vector (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer’s protocol, and their identities were verified by sequencing. For Arabidopsis RGP expression under the control of their native promoters as C-terminal translational HA tag or YFP-HA tag fusions, the corresponding promoter sequences (on average, the region 2 kb upstream of the ATG start codon) were PCR amplified from genomic DNA with NotI linker (lowercase letters) using RGP1pro-fwd (5′-ttgcggccgcaaTTGATCTTGACGCCGGCTTTG-3′) and RGP1pro-rev (5′-ttgcggccgcaaGATTGGATTGATTCAGAGAGAAGAGAA-3′), RGP2pro-fwd (5′-ttgcggccgcaaTGATCATTCTCATTGATGCTGTGTCTC-3′) and RGP2pro-rev (5′-ttgcggccgcaaGGTTTCGAAATGAGAGAGATGAGATCG-3′), RGP3pro-fwd (5′-ttgcggccgcaaCGCAAACTCGCCATGAAGTGG-3′) and RGP3pro-rev (5′-ttgcggccgcaaTTGAAACGACAAGGAAGAAAGA-3′), RGP4pro-fwd (5′-ttgcggccgcaaCGAAACCTAAAATTGAACCCGTCA-3′) and RGP4pro-rev (5′-ttgcggccgcaaTTTGGTACTTAAAGTTAATTAGATGTGTGA-3′), and RGP5pro-fwd (5′-ttgcggccgcaaTCTTCGGATTGTGAAATCAGATCG-3′) and RGP5pro-rev (5′-ttgcggccgcaaTTCGAGTTTCAACAATCTTTTAAGCA-3′). Following restriction digestion, promoter sequences were ligated into the NotI site of the pENTR/SD/D-TOPO cloning vector upstream of the corresponding RGP coding sequence. Orientations and identities were verified by sequencing. To obtain HA tag fusions, the constructs were introduced into the promoterless pEarleyGate301 plant transformation vector (CITATION) using LR clonase (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer’s protocol. C-terminal YFP-HA tag fusion constructs were generated by replacing the NcoI/MunI cassette from pEarleyGate301 with the NcoI/MunI cassette derived from pEarleyGate101. Hairpin constructs, either directed against RGP1 and RGP2 or RGP5, were assembled as described by CITATION and named hpRGP1/2 and hpRGP5, respectively. Fragments of 299 and 485 bp were amplified from cDNA using the following primer pairs: hpRGP1/2s-fwd (5′-acggaattccgGGATCCATCTGGAAAAGCTGTGA-3′) and hpRGP1/2s-rev (5′-ggggtaccccTACCACACATAGGGAAAAGAGTTCC-3′), hpRGP1/2as-fwd (5′-agctctagagcGGATCCATCTGGAAAAGCTGTGA-3′) and hpRGP1/2as-rev (5′-ccatcgatggTACCACACATAGGGAAAAGAGTTCC-3′), hpRGP5s-fwd (5′-acggaattccgTATAATTTTGTTTGTGGGTATTGCTTG-3′) and hpRGP5s-rev (5′-ggggtaccccTGAGTAACAGCATCCACTAGGAACC-3′), and hpRGP5as-fwd (5′-agctctagagcTATAATTTTGTTTGTGGGTATTGCTTG-3′) and hpRGP5as-rev (5′-ccatcgatggTGAGTAACAGCATCCACTAGGAACC-3′), digested with either EcoRI and KpnI or XbaI and ClaI, sequentially cloned into the pHANNIBAL vector, and subsequently subcloned into the plant transformation vector pART27 as a NotI cassette. For heterologous expression in Escherichia coli, coding sequences without a native stop codon were recombined into the pET-DEST42 bacterial expression vector (Invitrogen), which introduces a C-terminal V5 epitope and hexahistidine tags, using LR clonase (Invitrogen), according to the manufacturer’s protocol. For stable and transient expression of RGP-YFP fusion proteins driven by the constitutive CaMV 35S promoter, coding sequences without a native stop codon were recombined into the pEarleyGate101 plant expression vector. Transient expression in tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) was performed as described by CITATION. The respective constructs were introduced into BL-21 Star (DE3) chemically competent E. coli (Invitrogen), according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Single bacterial colonies, grown on Luria-Bertani agar containing 100 μg/mL carbenicilline, were isolated, used to inoculate 5-mL liquid cultures supplemented with 100 μg/mL carbenicilline, and grown overnight at 37°C. The overnight cultures were used to inoculate 0.2 liters of Luria-Bertani cultures containing 100 μg/mL carbenicilline, which were grown at 37°C until OD600 reached ~0.3. Expression was induced by the addition of 1 mM isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside, and the cultures were further grown at 20°C overnight. Recombinant proteins were affinity purified using a HIS-Select HF Nickel Affinity gel (Sigma-Aldrich) according to the manufacturer’s instructions and desalted with PD-10 desalting columns (GE Healthcare). Purity and integrity were verified by SDS-PAGE, and the recombinant proteins were stored at −20°C in 20 mM Tris buffer, pH 7.5, containing 20% (v/v) glycerol. UDP-Arap was obtained from Carbosource Service and UDP-Araf (triethanolamine salt) from the Peptide Research Institute. UDP-Ara mutase assays were performed at 30°C for 1 h (providing UDP-Arap as substrate) or 10 min (using UDP-Araf as substrate) in 20 mM Tris buffer, pH 6.8, 5 mM MnCl2 containing 1 nmol of UDP-Arap or UDP-Araf and 200 ng of recombinant plant proteins, 200 ng of immunoprecipitated protein complex, or 40 μg of fractionated plant proteins. The reaction was terminated by adding 9 volumes of ethanol (99%) and subjected to high-performance anion-exchange chromatography (HPAEC). HPAEC analysis was performed using a Dionex Ultimate 3000 apparatus with UV light detection at 262 nm. Samples were separated on a CarboPac PA20 column (3 × 150 mm; Dionex). Prior to injection (20 μL), the samples were spin filtered (0.45 μm). A flow of 0.5 mL/min and a linear gradient of 50 mM to 1 M ammonium formate was applied as follows: 0 to 2.1 min, 50 mM, isocratic; 2.1 to 40 min, 50 mM to 1 M, linear; 40 to 45 min, 1 M to 50 mM, linear; 45 to 55 min, 50 mM, isocratic. The formation of UDP-Arap and UDP-Araf was confirmed by LC-ESI-MS, as described by CITATION, using a TSQ Quantum Discovery Max mass spectrometer (Thermo Fisher Scientific) and a Synergy Hydro-RP 4u 160 × 2.5 mm column (Phenomenex) operated with a flow of 0.25 mL/min. After grinding plants to a fine powder and performing metabolite extraction (CITATION) and Carbo column purification, nucleotide sugars were determined by ion-pair chromatography-MS/MS analysis (T. Herter, S. Arrivault, S. Osorio, A. Schlereth, D. Pese, B. Arsova, P. Troc, S. Endres, R. Tenhaken, C. Rautengarten, S.M. Bulley, H.V. Scheller, M. Stitt, A.R. Fernie, S. Kempa, W.D. Reiter, and B. Usadel, unpublished data). In brief, chromatography was performed on a Dionex Ultimate 3000 HPLC system using a reverse-phase Synergi 4u Hydro 80A 150 × 2.0 mm column at a temperature of 28°C. A flow of 0.25 mL/min and a gradient of acetonitrile in 20 mM buffered triethylamine/acetic acid, pH 6.0, was established as follows: 0 to 15 min, 0% acetonitrile, isocratic; 15 to 35 min, 0 to 3.5% acetonitrile, linear; 35 to 45 min, 3.5 to 90% acetonitrile, linear; 45 to 48 min, 90% acetonitrile, isocratic; 48 to 59 min, 90 to 0% acetonitrile, linear. Detection relied on a Thermo-Finnigan TSQ Quantum Discovery triple quadrupole mass spectrometer (Thermo Scientific) equipped with an electrospray interface in negative ion mode with selected reaction monitoring. Plant material was ground in liquid nitrogen. Total protein was extracted in 1 volume (v/w) of immunoprecipitation buffer (150 mM NaCl, 10 mM Tris, pH 8.0) supplemented with various detergent concentrations (0.1–2% Nonidet P-40 substitute; Sigma-Aldrich). The resulting homogenate was thoroughly shaken for 30 min at 4°C and centrifuged at 20,800g at 4°C for 10 min, and the supernatant was collected. Protein concentrations were determined according to CITATION. For immunoblot analysis, protein extracts were resolved by SDS-PAGE on 7 to 15% gradient gels and blotted onto nitrocellulose membranes (GE Healthcare). Blots were probed with a 1:1000 dilution of rabbit anti-cFBPase, anti-Sar1 (Agrisera; AS04 043 and AS08 326) or anti-calreticulin (Abcam; ab2907), or a 1:10,000 dilution of rabbit anti-HA or mouse anti-polyhistidine antibody, respectively (Sigma-Aldrich), followed by a 1:20,000 dilution of goat anti-rabbit or goat anti-mouse IgG conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (Sigma-Aldrich), before applying ECL Plus detection reagent (GE Healthcare). Blots were imaged using a ChemiDoc-It 600 Imaging System (UVP), and images were processed in Adobe Photoshop (Adobe Systems). For immunoprecipitations, 5 to 10 mg of total protein was incubated with 5 μg of anti-HA antibody at 4°C on a rotary shaker. After 3 h, 75 μL of protein A–Sepharose (Sigma-Aldrich) was added, and the sample was incubated for an additional 1 h. After centrifugation at 8000g for 10 s, the supernatant was removed and the sample was washed three times with immunoprecipitation buffer and 0.1% (v/v) Nonidet P-40 and three times with 10 mM Tris, pH 8.0. Protein was eluted with 500 μL of 10 mM Tris, pH 8.0, containing 100 μg of HA peptide (Sigma-Aldrich), and concentrated using Vivaspin sample concentrators (GE Healthcare). Aliquots were separated by SDS-PAGE, and gels were blotted onto nitrocellulose membranes as described above or stained with Sypro Ruby protein gel stain (Invitrogen), according to the manufacturer’s protocol. For LC-ESI-MS/MS, immunoprecipitation samples were dried in a Speedvac and resusupended in 50 μL of 25 mM NH4CO3/40% (v/v) methanol. Then, 2 μL of 100 mM DTT was added, and the samples were heated for 5 min at 95°C. A total of 0.5 μg of MS-grade trypsin (Invitrogen) was added, and the sample was digested for 16 h at 37°C. Peptide mixtures were dried in a Speedvac and resusupended in 50 μL of 0.5% (v/v) trifluoroacetic acid/5% (v/v) acetonitrile. Samples were desalted with PepClean C-18 Spin columns (Pierce), according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Ground plant material was resusupended in 1 mL of extraction buffer (5 mM sodium phosphate, pH 7.1, 400 mM Suc, and 1 mM DTT). The suspension was filtered through two layers of Miracloth and centrifuged for 10 min at 3000g at 4°C. The supernatant was centrifuged at 50,000g at 4°C for 1 h. The resulting supernatant (F1), containing cytosolic proteins, was removed. The remaining pellet was washed with 1 mL of extraction buffer and centrifuged as above. Peripherally attached membrane proteins were stripped with 400 μL of 100 mM Na2CO3, pH 11.5, for 30 min on ice (CITATION). The procedure was repeated, and the supernatants were combined. The membrane pellet was resusupended in 400 μL of 10 mM Tris, pH 7.5, 10% (v/v) glycerol, and 1 mM DTT and solubilized with 0.4% (v/v) Triton X-100 for 30 min on ice. Proteinase K protection assays of microsomal fractions were performed in 500 μL of 50 mM Tris, pH 7.5, 5 mM CaCl2, and 10% (v/v) glycerol supplemented with 100 μg of proteinase K (Invitrogen) for 1 h at 22°C. The reaction was terminated by the addition of 5 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, and membranes were solubilized as described above. Fractions were concentrated using Vivaspin sample concentrators for further analysis (GE Healthcare). Peptide mixtures were injected onto a Pepmap100 μ-guard column (Dionex) via Tempo Nano Autosampler and washed for 20 min. Peptides were separated on a Dionex Pepmap100 analytical column (75 μm i.d., 150 mm length, 100 Å, 3 μm) by using a TEMPO nanoLC-2D (Applied Biosystems) LC system coupled to a nano-ESI source operating in positive ion mode (2300–2400 V). LC conditions consisted of a 7-min wash period with buffer A (2% [v/v] acetonitrile, 0.1% [v/v] formic acid), followed by peptide elution with a gradient of 5 to 35% buffer B (98% [v/v] acetonitrile, 0.1% [v/v] formic acid) over 30 min, and a ramp from 35 to 80% (v/v) buffer B over 5 min. The conditions were maintained at 80% (v/v) buffer B for 15 min followed by column reequilibration by a decreasing gradient of buffer B of 80 to 5% (v/v), in 5 min, and held for 15 min. Mass analysis was performed using a QSTAR Elite mass spectrometer (Applied Biosystems) operating in information-dependent acquisition mode consisting of one MS scan (350–1600 D) followed by up to three product ion scans (100–1600 D). A precursor ion signal of >30 counts was required before MS/MS fragmentation was triggered. The product ion scans were collected from each cycle with a maximum accumulation time of 2 s (fragment multiplier = 4), depending on the intensities of the fragment ions. Parent ions (mass tolerance = 100 ppm) and their isotopes were excluded from further selection for 1 min. Mascot Distiller (version 2.1) was used to sum similar precursor ion scans from each LC-MS/MS run and to generate product ion peak lists for subsequent database searches. A Mascot MS/MS Ion Search (Mascot version 2.2.04; MatrixScience) was performed for each data set against a protein database consisting of all putative open reading frame sequences of Arabidopsis (TAIR9) appended with trypsin, BSA, and common contaminants (33,417 total sequences). Only fully digested peptides with up to one missed cleavage site were considered, and oxidation of Met was considered as a variable modification. Precursor and product ion tolerances were set at ±100 ppm and ±0.3 D, respectively. Tissue samples were mounted in 10% (v/v) glycerol or 20 mM sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.1, containing 10 μg/mL propidium iodide. Images were collected using a Leica MZ16F fluorescence stereomicroscope with 470 or 360 nm for GFP or UV light excitation, respectively. Confocal laser scanning microscopy was performed using a Zeiss LSM 710 device equipped with an argon laser (514 nm for YFP excitation) and an In Tune laser (536 nm for propidium iodide excitation; Zeiss). Emission was collected at 510 to 545 nm (YFP) and 610 to 650 nm (propidium iodide). The pinhole diameter was set at 1 airy unit. Images were processed in ImageJ 1.42q (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij) and Adobe Photoshop (Adobe Systems). Seed mucilage was stained as described previously (CITATION). Alcohol insoluble residue was prepared as described earlier (CITATION). Alcohol insoluble residue was sequentially extracted with 50 mM CDTA for 2 h at 4°C, 50 mM CDTA for 16 h at 4°C, 50 mM Na2CO3 containing 20 mg/mL NaBH4 for 2 h at 4°C, and 50 mM Na2CO3 containing 20 mg/mL NaBH4 for 16 h at 4°C. CDTA fractions were combined and dialyzed against 50 mM sodium acetate, pH 5.5, overnight at 4°C, followed by three changes of water. Sodium carbonate fractions were combined, neutralized with acetic acid, and dialyzed against three changes of water. Fractions were freeze-dried. The insoluble residue was washed with water, 70% (v/v) ethanol, and acetone and dried. Total alcohol insoluble residue or corresponding fractions were hydrolyzed in 2 n trifluoroacetic acid for 1 h at 120°C. HPAEC with pulsed amperometric detection was performed according to CITATION on a ICS 3000 device (Dionex) using a CarboPac PA20 (3 × 150 mm) anion-exchange column (Dionex). The results were analyzed by two-way and three-way ANOVA. RNA was extracted using the RNEasy RNA Plant kit (Qiagen), according to the manufacturer’s protocol. One microgram of total RNA was reverse transcribed with SuperScriptII reverse transcriptase and d(T)15 oligomers (Invitrogen), according to the manufacturer’s protocol. Real-time PCR was performed with ABsolute SYBR Green ROX mix (ABgene) on a StepOnePlus real-time PCR system (Applied Biosystems), according to previously described conditions (CITATION), using StepOne 2.0 software (Applied Biosystems). Arabidopsis RGP1 was amplified using 5′-CAGGAACGACATCAACCGTA-3′ (fwd) and 5′-TGGATCCTTAGCAACGAAGC-3′ (rev), RGP2 was amplified using 5′-GAACGACATTAACCGAATCCTC-3′ (fwd) and 5′-GATCCTTGGCAACGAAGC-3′ (rev), RGP3 was amplified using 5′-AATACGAAATCGCTTACGATAAGTCT-3′ (fwd) and 5′-CATCGCTTCCAGTCATAGGC-3′ (rev), RGP4 was amplified using 5′-AGATGGAACTGATTTCGTCAGAG-3′ (fwd) and 5′-TCCACATACCTCGTGTTACGTTC-3′ (rev), and RGP5 was amplified using 5′-TGACATGGAAAAGGTTGTGG-3′ (fwd) and 5′-ATCCACTAGGAACCCCTTCG-3′ (rev). As a reference, primers for UBQ10, 5′-GGCCTTGTATAATCCCTGATGAATAAG-3′ (fwd) and 5′-AAAGAGATAACAGGAACGGAAACATAGT-3′ (rev), were used. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the accession numbers listed in Supplemental Table 4 online. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. UDP-Ara Mutase Activities of Immunoprecipitated RGP-YFP Fusion Proteins. Supplemental Figure 2. Complementation of RGP Mutant Lines by HA and YFP Tag Fusion Proteins. Supplemental Figure 3. Subcellular Localizations of RGPs When Stably Expressed as C-Terminal YFP Fusion Proteins Driven by the Constitutive CaMV 35S Promoter in Arabidopsis. Supplemental Figure 4. Subcellular Localizations of RGPs When Transiently Expressed as C-Terminal YFP Fusion Proteins Driven by the Constitutive CaMV 35S Promoter in Tobacco Leaves. Supplemental Figure 5. Mutase Activities of RGP Complexes Determined Using UDP-Arap as Substrate. Supplemental Figure 6. qRT-PCR Analysis of RGP5 Expression in hpRGP5 Lines. Supplemental Table 1. Peptide Sequences of Identified RGP Complex Components. Supplemental Table 2. Monosaccharide Composition of Leaf Cell Wall Polysaccharides Extracted from the Wild Type (Col-0), atrgp1, and atrgp2 Mutants. Supplemental Table 3. Monosaccharide Composition of Polysaccharides Extracted from Leaf Material of hpRGP1/2 and hpRGP5 Transgenic Plants. Supplemental Table 4. RGP Protein Accession Numbers and Annotations. Supplemental Data Set 1. Multiple Sequence Alignment of 60 Nonredundant RGP Full-Length Protein Sequences.
