!~ABS~! Mitochondria undertake the process of oxidative phosphorylation yielding ATP for plant cell maintenance and growth. The principles of isolation and fractionation of plant mitochondrial proteins have been improved over decades, and surveys of the mitochondrial proteome in a number of plants species have been performed. Over time, many quantitative analyses of changes in the plant mitochondrial proteome have been performed by 2‐D gel analyses revealing the induction, degradation and modification of mitochondrial proteins in responses to mutation, stress and development. Here, we present a saturating MS analysis of 2‐D gel separable protein spots from a typical purification of Arabidopsis mitochondria identifying 264 proteins, alongside an LC‐MS/MS survey by non‐gel methods identifying 220 proteins. This allowed us to characterise the major mitochondrial proteins that are not observed on 2‐D gels, the common contaminants and the abundance of the protein machinery of key mitochondrial biochemical pathways, and consider the impact of N‐terminal pre‐sequence cleavage and phosphorylation as explanations of multiple protein spots and the co‐ordinates of proteins on 2‐D gels. 
!~RES~! Many studies have assessed whole proteome changes in plant mitochondria in wild‐type and mutant lines in response to development, oxidative and environmental stress, and the majority of these studies involved the use of 2‐D electrophoretic separations of proteins. This typically involves: isolating mitochondria by centrifugation methods, comparisons of many separately stained gels or incorporation of CyDyes to allow fewer gels to be compared, followed by software‐driven calculations of abundance changes of protein spots defined by molecular mass, IEF point and identification of protein spots by MS. Although the limitations of organelle purity following differential and density centrifugation in the isolation mitochondria and of 2‐D gel electrophoresis for the separation of mitochondrial proteins is often acknowledged in these studies, no systematic study has investigated how these limitations may affect the interpretation of experiments utilising these techniques. A thorough knowledge of all proteins contained in a spot, and all instances of the presence of a given protein in a gel, greatly aids the correct interpretation of data sets generated for quantitative 2‐D PAGE.  To facilitate such an analysis for mitochondria, Arabidopsis cell culture mitochondrial proteins were separated in the first dimension from pI 3–10 and in the second dimension by Mr and the 302 major spots were selected for identification from a single gel by MS (Fig. 1) using a short gradient LC‐MS/MS analysis pipeline. From these 302 spots, a list of 551 protein identifications were made, representing 264 non‐redundant protein identifications, of which 161 were confirmed as a list of non‐redundant mitochondrial proteins (Supporting Information Table 1). This data set compares to previous studies of 2‐D gel‐based mitochondrial proteomes that have found 52 CITATION and 81 CITATION proteins in Arabidopsis, 146 proteins in rice CITATION and 78 proteins in pea CITATION, non‐redundantly. A spot's abundance was then calculated as a percentage of gel abundance by software‐driven analysis and the proportion of each protein in that spot, where possible, was assigned using emPAI CITATION and tabulated in Supporting Information Table 1. The confirmation of mitochondrial localisation was determined from online data repositories of both MS and GFP‐based localisations and manual literature searches and assigned as either mitochondrial (M), other (O) or dual (D) (Supporting Information Table 1). In parallel, another mitochondrial sample was analysed using eight iterative LC‐MS runs that identified 220 mitochondrial proteins and the relative abundance was again calculated by emPAI CITATION (Supporting Information Table 2).  [[FIGURE]] These data sets and their comparison provide a valuable insight into Arabidopsis mitochondria and allow novel evaluation of their composition as well as the technical and biological limitations of a two‐density gradient purification and 2‐D PAGE analysis of plant mitochondria. Using these data we address seven key issues in the following sections to provide a wider framework for working with 2‐D gel separations of plant mitochondrial proteins, and a range of supplementary data resources for researchers using these techniques.  While a range of techniques for high‐purity organelle isolation to 98–99% have been used for detailed proteome analysis of mitochondria CITATION, CITATION, these tools are time‐consuming, require large amounts of starting material and are not feasible for many types of analysis. Most reported analyses use density gradient purified organelles, which have typically a 90–95% purity level. The contaminants of mitochondrial preparations from other cellular locations provide a significant challenge to researchers wishing to quantitatively assess changes in mitochondrial proteomes at the protein level. From the 264 proteins identified from the 2‐D separation of mitochondrial proteins isolated by a classical two‐density gradient approach, we have identified 103 likely contaminating proteins from 96 spots, which represents ∼11% of the protein spot abundance separated on 2‐D gels (Supporting Information Table 3). We acknowledge that some proportion may represent genuinely multi‐located proteins, but none are proteins experimentally defined to have dual‐targeted pre‐sequences in Arabidopsis. In some cases these contaminants are low‐level identifications from the same spots that contain major mitochondrial proteins. This depth was achieved by analysis performed by a short gradient LC‐MS/MS of each spot, which yielded on average ∼120 MS/MS spectra for evaluation from each gel spot.  These contaminants have been classified by their cellular origin in Fig. 2 (details in Supporting Information Table 3), which shows the plastid (45%) and plasma membrane (35%) as the major sources of contamination, while the cytoplasm (12%), vacuole (5%), extracellular proteins (2%) and the peroxisome (1%) also contribute. The most abundant contaminating proteins included, the plastidic proteins CPN60α (chaperonin‐60 α‐subunit, At2g28000.1), CPN20 (chaperonin 20 kDa, At5g20720.1) and HSP88‐1 (heat shock protein 88 kDa, At2g04030.1). Proteins of glycolysis that are known to associate with mitochondria were present as contaminants including fructose‐bisphosphate aldolase (At3g52930.1) 2,3‐biphosphoglycerate‐independent phosphoglycerate mutase (At3g08590.1) and enolase (At1g74030.1) and GAPDH (glyceraldehyde 3‐phosphate dehydrogenase, At1g13440.1, At3g04120.1). Also, the cytoplasmic NIT2 (nitrilase 2 (nitrile aminohydrolase), At3g44300.1) and plasma membrane associated HSP70‐1 (heat shock protein 1 70 kDa protein, At5g02500.1) were major contaminants. Many of these proteins have previously been found by researchers in Arabidopsis mitochondria, for example, CPN60α CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CPN20 CITATION, HSP88‐1 CITATION, CITATION, CITATION. Knowledge of the constituents of each protein spot and their origin is vital when assessing quantitative protein changes by 2‐D PAGE, for example, spot 208 in this analysis contains the major mitochondrial protein SDH1‐1 (succinate dehydrogenase subunit 1, At5g66760.1) and the contaminating cytoplasmic protein 2,3‐biphosphoglycerate‐independent phosphoglycerate mutase (At3g08590.1). SDH1‐1 makes up ∼65% of the protein spot and phosphoglycerate mutase ∼30%; so if phosphoglycerate mutase was to increase fourfold, spot 208 would increase threefold, and this could be misinterpreted as SDH1‐1 increasing in abundance.  [[FIGURE]] Many quantitative 2‐D comparative analyses reveal a limited number of significant protein abundance changes, while the larger group of known proteins in the samples, which were not identified, is often assumed not to have changed in abundance. Often both sets of data are used to formulate the biological insights of an experiment. However, many proteins are excluded from 2‐D gels and thus their absence from a list of changing proteins cannot simply be interpreted as evidence that they did not significantly change. Similarly, it is well recognised that some very hydrophobic subunits of multiprotein complexes often stain poorly when compared to their hydrophilic subunits CITATION. We have compared the proteins found by 2‐D PAGE with the data set from LC‐MS to identify proteins that appear to be excluded from 2‐D PAGE. We found 69 proteins that have an abundance (emPAI>0.1) that would suggest they should be visualised in a colloidal coomassie‐stained 2‐D PAGE and selected for MS, in our estimation, but are absent from the 2‐D PAGE analysis (Supporting Information Table 4). We have then investigated possible reasons for their exclusion by assessing their Mr, pI and number of transmembrane domains (Fig. 3, Supporting Information Table 4). This shows that the presence of transmembrane domains (45%), high pI (32%) and small Mr (18%) appear to be the major factors that lead to these proteins not being detected by 2‐D PAGE along with a very minor contribution of large Mr (3%) and low pI (1%) proteins. Only four of these 70 proteins have previously been claimed to be identified by standard 2‐D PAGE (IEF/SDS‐PAGE) CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION. The major inner membrane protein components of the mitochondrial electron transfer chain and members of the mitochondrial substrate carrier family dominate this list. These proteins potentially play major roles, particularly in the stress response of mitochondria, hence not considering them by the biological interpretation of 2‐D PAGE alone may lead to spurious conclusions.  [[FIGURE]] This data set also gives us an opportunity to highlight the most‐abundant mitochondrial proteins that are likely to be mitochondrial contaminants in 2‐D PAGE analysis of other cellular compartments and that are likely to be the principle mitochondrial markers in whole cell 2‐D PAGE experiments. We have selected gel‐based proteins that have an abundance >0.5% of total mitochondria and suggest these proteins are likely to be present in such analyses (Supporting Information Table 5). In fact 30 of the 36 highlighted proteins have to date already been claimed to be localised in cellular compartments other than the mitochondria, although they are clearly mitochondrial in origin. For example MPP‐β (Mitochondrial processing peptidase β‐subunit, At3g02090) has many lines of evidence for being mitochondria, but also five claims of other cellular localisations in four different compartments (nucleus, CITATION; plasma membrane, CITATION; plastid, CITATION; vacuole CITATION, CITATION). Similarly, the major mitochondrial HSP60‐2 (heat shock protein 60 kDa) has six literature claims of other cellular localisations in three different compartments (plasma membrane, CITATION, CITATION; plastid, CITATION, CITATION; vacuole CITATION, CITATION). We hope this list will aid the wider plant proteomics community as to the correct origin of the major mitochondrial proteins to assist more accurate interpretation of quantitative 2‐D PAGE analyses of other organelles.  Another important consideration when interpreting quantitative 2‐D PAGE analyses is the number of times a particular protein is found in different locations on a 2‐D PAGE separation of proteins. If you see one protein spot increase in abundance through quantitative analysis care must be taken to ensure that this has significance in a subsequent biological interpretation. For example if the protein spot observed to change is just a small component to the total protein content, this increase may result in a very small change in this protein's overall abundance. Also, if a protein spot that increased is a breakdown or truncated product (i.e. lower than expected Mr), then this may suggest an increase in protein degradation rather than an overall increase in protein abundance. Similarly, a small population of a protein may migrate to a different location on a 2‐D PAGE as a result of post‐translational modifications. In any case, it is important to recognise which proteins occur in multiple locations on 2‐D PAGE gels and which protein spots contain the bulk of a given protein. Supporting Information Table 6 provides a list ranked by protein annotation and their locations on a 2‐D PAGE gel, multiple entries for many proteins highlight multiple spot locations.  For example ACON‐1 (Aconitate hydratase 1, At2g05710.1) was found in 12 spots (145, 159, 171, 174, 180, 228, 229, 230, 231, 234, 253, 286) clearly the majority of this protein is found in spot 230 (gel abundance%=0.98) and multiple explanations are required for the presence of the other spots. The identification of ACON‐1 in spots 229 and 231 could be bleed‐over from the dominant 230 spot or may be slightly more or less acidic variants of ACON‐1; given the absence of other proteins in spots 229 and 231 the latter seems the most likely. Similarly, spots 286 and 234, both containing ACON‐1, appear in the 5–5.5 pI range compared to the dominant spot 230, which is close to pI 6.5, like spots 229 and 231, these shifts in pI may result from a post‐translational modification (see Section 3.1.7). Interestingly, even the dominant spot 230 appears some distance from its predicted pI of 7.2, probably due to cleavage of the pre‐sequence for this protein (see Section 3.1.6). As for spots 171, 174 and 180 that contained ACON‐1, these spots occurred at a much lower Mr than expected for ACON‐1 and thus are likely breakdown products. Other proteins appearing often in multiple spots were citrate synthase (At2g44350), ATP α subunit (AtMg01190), ATP β subunit (At5g08670), Elongation factor Tu (At4g02930) and formate dehydrogenase (At5g14780). Over 50% of proteins identified were found in at least two protein spots (Supporting Information Table 6).  The quantitative analysis of this Arabidopsis 2‐D PAGE proteome also allowed us an insight into the proportion of total mitochondrial protein that can be attributed to different mitochondrial metabolic processes. Less than 20% of the identified proteins in this study accounted for nearly 60% of the mitochondrial 2‐D gel protein abundance (Fig. 4).  [[FIGURE]] The F1F0 ATP synthase is known to dominate the inner mitochondrial membrane and contains a large number of soluble proteins in the F1 structure. Seven subunits of the ATP synthase were detected by gel analysis (ATP synthase 24 kDa subunit, At2g21870.1; ATP1 ATP synthase subunit 1, AtMg01190.1; ATP2 ATP synthase subunit 2, At5g08670.1; ATP3 ATP synthase subunit 3, At2g33040.1; ATP5 ATP synthase subunit 5, At5g13450.1; ATP7 ATP synthase subunit 7, At3g52300.1; ATP16 ATP synthase subunit 16, At5g47030.1), while ATP‐γ (ATP synthase γ subunit, AT4G29480.1) was shown to be excluded from gel analysis (Supporting Information Table 4). In total, the ATP synthase proteins found on the gel accounted for ∼17% of total mitochondrial 2‐D gel‐separable proteins.  The nine enzymes of the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle consist of 20 protein subunits encoded by 61 genes. These account for ∼18% of the total mitochondrial protein on the 2‐D gels (Fig. 4). However, some interesting caveats must be highlighted in this estimation. For example, while the three subunit (E1, E2 and E3) pyruvate dehydrogenase complex accounted for ∼4% of protein the similar 2‐oxoglutarate dehydrogenase complex appeared to only account for ∼1.5%; however, the high molecular mass E1 subunit of this enzyme was shown to be excluded from 2‐D gel‐based analysis and thus it is likely to be an underestimate (Supporting Information Table 4). Also, while various components or isoforms of malate dehydrogenase (∼2.1%), succinate dehydrogenase (∼1.8%), succinyl CoA synthetase (∼3.2%) and aconitase (∼2.5%) appear to be very abundant proteins, fumarase (∼0.1%) and isocitrate dehydrogenase (∼0.15%) appeared to be quite low in abundance. The low abundances of two key TCA cycle proteins in a mitochondrial pathway also give an indication of the different catalytic rates of enzymes in this cycle. For example, we have already reported that fumarase has a similar activity in cell culture mitochondria (on a per mg of total mitochondrial protein basis) to pyruvate or 2‐oxoglurate dehydrogenase complexes CITATION, while the protein abundances here indicate a 20–30 fold lower abundance of fumarase. However, it should be noted that protein abundance itself is only one component of defining metabolic capacity, and thorough analysis of enzyme activity and kinetics and knowledge of the prevailing substrate availability is also essential. For the TCA cycle, this has been illustrated by the variation of protein abundances, enzyme capacities and substrate concentrations during the diurnal cycle CITATION, CITATION.  The mitochondrial heat shock proteins accounted for ∼10% of total mitochondrial protein content, while the outer membrane porin made up ∼5% of the proteome (Fig. 4). Interestingly, a series of unknown function proteins make up more than 3% of the protein in mitochondria. These calculations, however, carry the caveat that some components may be excluded from analysis, so care needs to be taken when attempting to interpret a whole pathway by 2‐D PAGE alone.  A considerable advantage of a 2‐D PAGE arraying system is the ability to directly visualise the intact proteins and extract information in the form of a protein's molecular weight and charge. Such features are especially significant when examining mitochondria where many proteins are imported as precursors and processed (cleaved) during the import process to form the mature functional enzymes. Consequently, the functionally active form of the polypeptide cannot be directly inferred from its gene sequence.  An examination of the Mr and pI of proteins identified from the Arabidopsis mitochondrial reference 2‐D PAGE for both calculated and experimentally determined values indicates a wide range of proteins are represented. The calculated pI values of the proteins identified by the MS range from 3.89 to 10.34 and Mr values of 9.2 to 122.4 kDa, which is very similar to the experimentally determined pI values (3.1–9.2) and the Mr values that range from 10.5 to 121.1 kDa estimated from the 2‐D PAGE. However, a comparison of the pI values between calculated and experimentally derived values for each protein indicate a poor relationship with a Pearson correlation coefficient (R value) of 0.566 (Fig. 5A). A comparison of the Mr values between the calculated and estimated experimental values for each protein produced a far higher correlation with an R value of 0.805 (Fig. 5A). This indicates that the effect of N‐terminal processing or cleavage is far greater on the pI of a protein than on the Mr. This finding is consistent with the relatively short length of plant mitochondrial pre‐sequences, which average forty amino acids in length and would thus have a limited effect on the migration of a processed protein through SDS‐PAGE CITATION. Furthermore, the removal of the pre‐sequence with its high proportion of basic amino acids would likely have a major effect on the pI of a protein and hence its migration during 2‐D PAGE CITATION.  [[FIGURE]] To more precisely examine the ability of 2‐D PAGE to provide accurate information on proteins we compiled a set of Arabidopsis mitochondrial proteins with experimentally determined processing sites (Supporting Information Table 7). Until fairly recently many of these processing sites were determined by N‐terminal sequencing of a protein arrayed by 2‐D PAGE and only a handful of sites were known CITATION. However, recently we conducted a high‐throughput proteomics survey of Arabidopsis mitochondria and identified the N‐terminal processing sites of 80 proteins CITATION. By combining these studies and affirming their presence on the Arabidopsis mitochondrial 2‐D PAGE we were able to assemble a total of 70 proteins with known experimental processing sites. The pI and Mr of these mature or processed proteins were calculated and used to more accurately assess the performance of 2‐D PAGE in providing precise information. While a number of proteins are present in multiple positions throughout the 2‐D PAGE we identified the most representative candidate by assessing its abundance (intensity and protein score) and its relationship to other proteins identified in a given sample or gel spot (Supporting Information Table 7).  The correlation between the 2‐D PAGE‐estimated pI and the calculated pI for the mature or processed proteins is strong with an R value of 0.805, and indicates that the use of 2‐D PAGE is a valuable tool in accurately determining the pI of a protein (Fig. 5B). Furthermore, when these findings are examined in the context of the analysis outlined above where the 2‐D PAGE‐estimated pI and the calculated pI had a relatively poor correlation with an R value of 0.566 (Fig. 5A), it confirms that a significant number of mitochondrial proteins contain N‐terminal‐processing sites or other modifications. The effect of experimental N‐terminal processing on the migration of a protein through SDS‐PAGE (Mr changes) was also examined (Fig. 5B). This analysis produced a high correlation with an R value of 0.96, demonstrating the effects of N‐terminal processing on the mass of the mature protein. It is significant that this correlation is higher between the 2‐D PAGE‐estimated values and the calculated Mr values for the experimentally determined mature mitochondrial proteins than for the whole protein set (Fig. 5A).  The identification of a protein in a sample only represents a single facet in its characterisation by MS, and may have little relevance to its potential functional state. Protein phosphorylation represents one of the most common post‐translational modifications within the cell and is a rapid means by which the cell can modulate and fine‐tune its cellular processes in response to a myriad of stimuli CITATION. The analysis of protein phosphorylation by MS has been revolutionised in recent years by the development of reproducible large‐scale phosphopeptide enrichment strategies that have enabled the identification of thousands of sites CITATION. While such studies have provided large data sets, the real interest to biologists is in examining the modulation or change in phosphorylation states of a protein. Since 2‐D PAGE provides a visual array of the sample and phosphorylation affects the net charge of a protein, changes to the pI are often discernable. The power of this method was highlighted recently by a brassinosteroid induction of phosphorylation of a brassinosteroid‐signaling kinase from plasma membrane samples by fluorescence‐based (DIGE) 2‐D PAGE CITATION.  Plant mitochondria contain a number of well‐documented phosphoproteins including the E1α subunit of the pyrvate dehydrogenase complex that regulates the entry of pyruvate into the TCA cycle CITATION. A recent survey of the Arabidopsis mitochondrial phosphoproteome identified 18 putative phosphoproteins with site‐specific evidence for five CITATION. Moreover, a number of phosphopeptides derived from mitochondrial proteins have been identified in the numerous large‐scale phosphopeptide enrichment studies from Arabidopsis CITATION. In order to examine the potential effect of phosphorylation on the 2‐D PAGE‐arrayed distribution we collated all known mitochondrial phosphoproteins identified by the 2‐D PAGE (Supporting Information Table 8). A total of 43 proteins had been previously determined as phosphorylated through phosphopeptide characterisation CITATION and/or in‐gel phospho‐staining CITATION and identified as mitochondrial on the 2‐D PAGE. A total of 31 of these phosphoproteins were identified in more than one position on the 2‐D PAGE, indicating evidence for modulation by some sort of modification. As outlined above, not all shifts in pI are the results of post‐translational modifications, with degradation or N‐terminal processing also resulting in considerable changes to a proteins net charge. Consequently, we examined the multiple occurrences of these potentially phospho‐regulated proteins and disregarded obvious Mr changes (generally >1 kDa for proteins over ca. 60 kDa) and utilised an online utility (ProMoST) to estimate the minimum pI shift required for each protein if phosphorylated CITATION. Depending on a protein's primary sequence (and hence its estimated net charge), a pI shift of as little as 0.03 can be the result of protein phosphorylation (Supporting Information Table 8).  A total of 18 proteins were identified with significant pI shifts and minimal differences in their apparent Mr (Table 1). These proteins included the two isoforms of the E1α subunit of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (At1g24180.1 and At1g59900.1), which is a known phospho‐regulated protein found within the mitochondrial matrix. The majority of spots containing these proteins were identified in the acidic region of the 2‐D PAGE (pI 4–5) although one isoform (At1g59900.1) was identified at a neutral region (spot 134, pI 7). Analysis of these sequences by ProMoST indicated a neutral pI for the unmodified protein and an acidic shift of approximately 0.2 pH units. In contrast, previous analyses of the Arabidopsis mitochondrial phosphoproteome by 2‐D PAGE using in‐gel phospho‐stains identified both isoforms of the phosphorylated E1α subunit of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex in the neutral position around spot 134 CITATION. These data indicate that the unphosphorylated form of this protein shifts over 2 pH units when arrayed by 2‐D PAGE. Other phosphoproteins that produced significant pI shifts under 2‐D PAGE were glutamate dehydrogenase 2 with Δ1.0 and Δ1.6 pH units, succinyl‐CoA ligase α‐subunit (Δ0.6 pH units), adenylate kinase (Δ0.6 pH units) and cysteine synthase (Δ0.6 pH units). Previous phospho‐staining of 2‐D PAGE‐arrayed Arabidopsis mitochondrial samples indicate that the most abundant form of the succinyl‐CoA ligase α‐subunit (spot 208) is the phosphorylated form and that glutamate dehydrogenase 2 is present phosphorylated in the neutral region of the 2‐D PAGE (spots 140 and 134) and unphosphorylated forms shift towards the acidic end of the gel. These observations can also provide an indication as to the state of a phospho‐regulated protein, as both modified and unmodified forms can be observed and quantified. 
!~MM~! An Arabidopsis suspension cell culture has been maintained and subcultured as stated elsewhere CITATION. Briefly, 20 mL of a 7‐day‐old cell culture grown in the light were transferred into 100 mL of fresh medium. Starting material for the mitochondrial preparation was grown in the dark for 7 days, whereas material used for the maintenance of the culture was incubated in the light for the same period of time.  Mitochondria were purified from 7‐day‐old Arabidopsis cell cultures, essentially as described previously CITATION. Specifically, 100 g fresh weight of cells were filtered through miracloth and transferred to a Waring blender. Three hundred millilitres extraction buffer (0.5% w/v BSA, 0.45 M mannitol, 50 mM tetrasodium pyrophosphate, 0.5% v/w PVP, 2 mM EGTA, 20 mM Cys, pH 8.0 with orthophosphoric acid) per five flasks of culture were added. Cells were then blended for 15 s at high speed and two cycles of 15 s at low speed, leaving 30 s in between each burst. The blended extract was filtered through one layer of cheesecloth and two layers of miracloth and transferred to detergent‐free centrifuge tubes. The extract was centrifuged at 1500×g for 5 min and the supernatant centrifuged at 24 000×g for 15 min. The pellet was re‐suspended in 1–2 mL wash buffer (0.1% w/v BSA, 0.3 M mannitol, 10 mM TES‐HCl, pH 7.5) and loaded onto a 18–23–40% step Percoll gradient made up using 2×gradient buffer 1 (0.2% w/v BSA, 0.6 M mannitol, 20 mM TES‐HCl, pH 7.5). Gradients were centrifuged at 40 000×g for 30 min (brake off). Mitochondria were visible as a whitish/brown band at the 23–40% interface. Mitochondria were collected and washed in wash buffer (24 000×g, 15 min). The supernatant was discarded and the pellet washed again. Mitochondria were then re‐suspended in 1–2 mL of wash buffer and purified on a 28% Percoll gradient, prepared in 2×gradient buffer 2 (0.2% w/v BSA, 0.6 M sucrose, 20 mM TES‐HCl, pH 7.5). The gradient was centrifuged at 40 000×g for 30 min (brake off). This time the mitochondria formed a whitish/brown band in the upper part of the gradient. The mitochondria were washed as described previously with wash buffer (minus the BSA) and re‐suspended in approximately 0.5 mL of wash buffer. All steps were performed at 4°C.  This was carried as described in Taylor et al. CITATION; briefly 1 mg of mitochondrial proteins were acetone precipitated and solubilised in 330 μL of IEF sample buffer consisting of 6 M urea, 2 M thiourea, 2% w/v CHAPS, 2% v/v ampholytes (pH 3–10), 2 mm tributylphosphine and 0.001% w/v bromphenol blue, yielding a final protein concentration of 3 mg/mL. Aliquots were used to re‐swell dried 180 mm (pH 3–10) nonlinear immobilised pH gradient strips (Immobiline DryStrips, GE Healthcare) overnight, and then IEF was performed for 19.5 h reaching a total of 49 kVh at 20°C on a flat‐bed electrophoresis unit (Multiphor II, GE Healthcare). Immobilised pH gradient strips were then transferred to an equilibration buffer consisting of 50 mm Tris‐HCl (pH 6.8), 4 M urea, 2% w/v SDS, 0.001% w/v bromphenol blue and 100 mM β‐mecaptoethanol and incubated for 20 min at room temperature with rocking. The equilibrated strips were then slotted into central single wells of 4% w/v acrylamide stacking gels above 0.1×18.5×20 cm, 12% w/v acrylamide, and 0.1% w/v SDS‐polyacrylamide gels. Gel electrophoresis was performed at 100 V with circulating cooling (4°C) and completed in 5 h. Proteins were visualised by colloidal Coomassie (G250) staining.  Quantification of protein abundance following 2‐D PAGE separation of proteins was carried out using the Progenesis SameSpots v4.0 (Nonlinear Dynamics) software package. The gel was scanned on a Microtek ScanMaker 9800XL and saved as a 16‐bit.tif image. Analysis was carried out using the default analysis wizard. Following spot detection all 302 spots were manually inspected and where required manual corrections to spot detection was carried out, and spot volumes were re‐determined. The relative abundance of each gel spot was calculated as a percentage of all 302 spots selected from the gel. Where sufficient spectral data was available the relative spot abundance was assigned to individual proteins identified in the spot based on the exponentially modified protein abundance index (emPAI) values obtained directly from MASCOT (Matrix Sciences). The spot abundance from Progenesis SameSpots v4.0 (Nonlinear Dynamics) was divided by the relative emPAI values reported to yield Gel Ab (%).  For 2‐D PAGE arrayed samples, visually selected protein spots were cut from the gels, de‐stained twice for 45 min in 10 mM NH4CO3 and 50% v/v ACN. Samples were dehydrated at 50°C in a dry block heater for 30 min and re‐hydrated with 15 μL digestion solution (10 mM NH4CO3 and 12.5 μg/mL trypsin in 0.01% v/v TFA) and incubated overnight at 37°C. Peptides were extracted by adding 15 μL ACN and vigorous shaking for 15 min, removing liquid and adding 15 μL of 50% ACN and 5% formic acid to the gel plugs followed by another 15 min of shaking (this step was repeated); washes were pooled after each extraction step. Samples were analysed according to Tan et al. CITATION. This involved samples being loaded onto self‐packed Microsorb (Varian) C18 (5 μm, 100 Å) reverse phase columns (0.5×50 mm) using an Agilent Technologies 1100 series capillary liquid chromatography system and eluted into an Agilent XCT Ultra IonTrap mass spectrometer with an ESI source equipped with a low flow nebuliser in positive mode and controlled by Chemstation (Rev B.01.03 [204]: Agilent Technologies) and mass selective detection (MSD) Trap Control v 6.0 (Build 38.15) software (Bruker Daltonik). Peptides were eluted from the C18 reverse phase column at 10 μL/min using a 9 min ACN gradient (5–60%) in 0.1% v/v formic acid at a regulated temperature of 50°C. The method used for initial ion detection utilised a mass range of m/z 200–1400 with scan mode set to Standard (m/z 8100/s) and Ion Charge Control conditions set at 250 000 and three averages taken per scan. Smart mode parameter settings were employed using a target of m/z 800, a compound stability factor of 90%, a Trap Drive Level of 80% and optimise set to normal. Ions were selected for MS/MS after reaching an intensity of 80 000 cps and two precursor ions were selected from the initial MS scan. MS/MS conditions employed SmartFrag for ion fragmentation, a scan range of m/z 70–2200 using an average of three scans, the exclusion of singly charged ions option and Ion Charge Control conditions set to 200 000 in Ultra scan mode (m/z 26 000/s). Resulting MS/MS spectra were exported from the DataAnalysis for LC/MSD Trap version 3.3 (Build 149) software package (Bruker Daltonik) using default parameters for AutoMS(n) and compound Export. Extracted results were queried against the Arabidopsis protein set (TAIR 9, 33 621 sequences; 13 487 170 residues) using the MASCOT search engine (Matrix Science, version 2.2.03) utilising error tolerances of ±1.2 Da for MS and ±0.6 Da for MS/MS, ‘Max Missed Cleavages’ set to 1, with variable modifications of Oxidation (M), Carboxymethyl (C), Instrument set to ESI‐TRAP and Peptide charge set at 2+ and 3+. Results were filtered using ‘Standard scoring’, ‘Max. number of hits’ set to 20, ‘Significance threshold’ at p<0.05 and ‘Ions score cut‐off’ at homology level, approximately 38. To obtain an estimated false detection rate (FDR) value at the ion score level, all spectra from the 302 spots were concatenated into a single file and re‐analysed, the ion score of 38 provided an FDR of 10.5%. Data files for the protein spots analyses have been annotated according to MIAPE (v1.0) and submitted to the Proteome Commons Tranche Repository (https://proteomecommons.org/tranche/). This data can be retrieved by using the following hash: LvthOLl2oj9TiQLriGjzi/ZcT2PRXP2UYUPiivxNU/LH4JJ3Kzud9Sv/Xj5fX1KpP66vWieCR2KCuZRr+ky9mkSpgmoAAAAAAAB7Tw==.  For gel‐free analyses, analysis was conducted according to Huang et al. CITATION. This involved 100 μg of isolated mitochondria being acetone precipitated and re‐suspended in 0.5 M triethylammonium bicarbonate (TEAB) and 0.05% w/v SDS. The sample was then treated with 5 mM tris‐(2‐carboxyethyl)‐phosphine (TCEP) and incubated for 1 h at 60°C followed by 10 min at RT in 9 mM methyl methane‐thiosulfonate (MMTS). The sample was then digested by the addition of trypsin (10 μg) and incubated overnight at 37°C, at a final protein concentration of 3 mg/mL. The resulting peptides were centrifuged at 20 000×g to remove insoluble components and vacuum centrifugation used to dry the supernatant. The sample was then diluted fourfold with strong cation exchange buffer A (10 mM KH2PO4 in 25% ACN at pH 3.0) and subjected to batch strong cation exchange chromatography using an OPTI‐LYNX cartridge (Optimize Technologies). The eluent was dried by vacuum concentration and stored at −20°C for analysis. Prior to analysis peptides were re‐suspended in 5% v/v ACN and 0.1% v/v formic acid. Samples were analysed via an HPLC Chip Cube source into an Agilent 6510 Q‐TOF mass spectrometer. The Chip was a 160 nL enrichment column (Zorbax 300SB‐C18 5 μm) and a 150 mm separation column (Zorbax 300SB‐C18 5 μm) driven by an Agilent Technologies 1100 series nano/capillary liquid chromatography system. Both systems were controlled by MassHunter Workstation Data Acquisition for Q‐TOF (ver B.01.02, Build 65.4, Patches 1,2,3,4, Agilent Technologies). Peptides were loaded onto the trapping column at 4 μL/min in 5% v/v ACN and 0.1% v/v formic acid with the chip switched to enrichment and using the capillary pump. The chip was then switched to separation and peptides eluted during a 1 h gradient (5–40% ACN) directly into the mass spectrometer. The instrument was operated in positive ion mode and MS scans run over a range of m/z 275–1500 and at four spectra s−1. Precursor ions were selected for auto MS/MS at an absolute threshold of 500 and a relative threshold of 0.01, with max. three precursors per cycle, and active exclusion set at two spectra and released after 1 min. Precursor charge‐state selection and preference was set to 2+ and then 3+ and precursors selected by charge then abundance. Resulting MS/MS spectra were opened in MassHunter Workstation Qualitative Analysis (ver B.01.02, Build 1.2.122.1, Patch 3 Agilent Technologies) and MS/MS compounds detected by ‘Find Auto MS/MS’ using default settings. The resulting compounds were then exported as mzdata files that were searched against an in‐house Arabidopsis database (TAIR 9) using version 2.2.03 (Matrix Science) of the MASCOT search engine. The following settings were selected for searching; MS error tolerance of ±100 ppm, MS/MS error tolerance of ±0.5 Da, maximum missed cleavages tolerated as 1, variable modifications Carbamidomethyl (C) and Oxidation (M), peptide charge as 2+ and 3+ and, finally, the instrument selected as ESI‐Q‐TOF. The resulting searches were then exported and all peptides identified were at least homology extracted to create an exclusion list for the subsequent run. In all eight runs were performed and combined using mzdataCombinator v1.0.4 (The West Australian Centre of Excellence in Computational Systems Biology, http://www.plantenergy.uwa.edu.au/wacecsb/software.shtml) then searched as outlined for the exclusion lists. Results were filtered using ‘Mudpit scoring’, ‘Max. number of hits’ set to AUTO, ‘Significance threshold’ at p<0.05 and ‘Ions score cut‐off’ at 34; FDR for this ion score was calculated to be 1.37%.  The Mr (average) and pI were calculated using the pepstats and the iep applications (respectively) available through the EMBOSS software suite CITATION. 2‐D PAGE Mr was estimated by plotting the molecular weight markers (97, 66, 45, 30, 20.1, 14.4 kDa) to their migration distance (mm). The following formula was the used to calculate the Mr of the proteins by the distance each migrated (Mr=−27 427ln(mm)+159 085). PAGE pIs were calculated by dividing the 3–10 NL range into 0.1 increments for pI 3–5 and 7–10 and 0.05 increments for pI 5–7 (total of 90 increments across the pI range). A protein's pI was estimated to the nearest hundredth decimal place. The subcellular location of each protein identified was determined by querying both the SUBA (v2.21) CITATION and Aramenonon (v6.2) CITATION as well as manual literature searches of matched Arabidopsis Gene Initiative numbers. If multiple localisations were assigned, a majority system was employed whereby any single localisation in the majority was used to assign location, unless strong evidence was available from manual literature interrogation. In Supporting Information Tables 1 and 2 proteins are called either M (mitochondrial), O (other; other than mitochondrial) or D (dual localised in mitochondria and another cellular location), but in the list of contaminating proteins (Supporting Information Table 3) other is expanded into cytoplasm (C), extracellular (E), peroxisome (Pe), plasma membrane (PM), plastid (P) and vacuole (V) and assigned by majority. Where appropriate the ID description was altered to better reflect the actual protein function, than that described in the TAIR 9 description. Information on protein phosphorylation was obtained from the Arabidopsis protein phosphorylation database, PhosPhat CITATION.  Proteins excluded from the gel were determined by collating all proteins found by the gel‐free approach, which were not detected on the gel. Each protein was then assessed for parameters by which they may exclude it from the gel such as small Mr, large Mr, low pI, high pI, the presence of predicted transmembrane domain or other evidence from manual literature interrogation of being membrane proteins. Proteins that did fulfill any one of these criteria were excluded and the resulting list is presented in Supporting Information Table 4. Major mitochondrial proteins that are likely to represent mitochondrial contaminants in other organelles or plant cell fractions were selected as proteins that were found on the gel and have an abundance of >0.5% of total mitochondrial protein and are presented in Supporting Information Table 5. 
