!~ABS~! Higher plants contain biologically active proteins that are recognized by antibodies against human atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP). We identified and isolated two Arabidopsis thaliana immunoreactive plant natriuretic peptide (PNP)-encoding genes, AtPNP-A and AtPNP-B, which are distantly related members of the expansin superfamily and have a role in the regulation of homeostasis in abiotic and biotic stresses, and have shown that AtPNP-A modulates the effects of ABA on stomata. Arabidopsis PNP (PNP-A) is mainly expressed in leaf mesophyll cells, and in protoplast assays we demonstrate that it is secreted using AtPNP-A:green fluorescent protein (GFP) reporter constructs and flow cytometry. Transient reporter assays provide evidence that AtPNP-A expression is enhanced by heat, osmotica and salt, and that AtPNP-A itself can enhance its own expression, thereby generating a response signature diagnostic for paracrine action and potentially also autocrine effects. Expression of native AtPNP-A is enhanced by osmotica and transiently by salt. Although AtPNP-A expression is induced by salt and osmotica, ABA does not significantly modulate AtPNP-A levels nor does recombinant AtPNP-A affect reporter expression of the ABA-responsive RD29A gene. Together, these results provide experimental evidence that AtPNP-A is stress responsive, secreted into the apoplastic space and can enhance its own expression. Furthermore, our findings support the idea that AtPNP-A, together with ABA, is an important component in complex plant stress responses and that, much like in animals, peptide signaling molecules can create diverse and modular signals essential for growth, development and defense under rapidly changing environmental conditions.
!~RES~! PNP was initially isolated from leaf tissue and we tested the spatial pattern of PNP-A expression using a ProPNP-A:GUS (β-glucuronidase) fusion construct containing a 2.5 kb sequence upstream of AtPNP-A. T2 plants were grown for 3–5 weeks and three plants with positive GUS staining and the presence of ProPNP-A:GUS confirmed by PCR amplification were identified from 10 randomly selected plants. The staining was located mainly in the mesophyll tissue of leaves (Fig. 1A–C), and partly in the cortex tissue of petioles (Fig. 1E) and stems (not shown). GUS activity was not detected in roots (Fig. 1F). This confirmed that PNP-A was expressed and produced mainly in leaf mesophyll tissue during vegetative growth, therefore making protoplasts isolated from mesophyll cells of 3- to 6-week-old plants a suitable research platform for investigations into PNP-A function at the cellular level.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Although sequence analysis suggested that PNP-A contains a signal sequence targeting the protein to the extracellular space (CITATION), this has not been experimentally proven. Protoplasts were transfected with different plasmids to express PNP-A tagged with green fluorescent protein (GFP) at the N- or C-terminus. GFP production in the protoplasts was assessed 18 h after transfection by flow cytometry, and biparametrically analyzed outputs are shown as dot plots (Fig. 2). Equal numbers of the total protoplast populations were measured in the P1 event for each sample (left panels Fig. 2A–D). The P2 event shows the range of protoplasts that expressed GFP in each sample (right panels Fig. 2A–D). The control protoplasts (completed the transfection procedure without plasmids) had near zero levels of protoplasts showing green fluorescence (Fig. 2A). Protoplasts transfected with the plasmid containing the full-length PNP-A coding sequence fused with GFP at the C-terminus (signalPNP:GFP) had similar outputs to the controls (Fig. 2B), with almost no detectable GFP in the protoplasts. However, populations of signalPNP:GFP- or signal PNP:YFP (yellow fluorescent protein)-transfected protoplasts together with their incubation solution displayed higher fluorescent readings than the controls (Supplementary Fig. S1), indicating that fluorescent fusion proteins were actually produced by the transfected protoplasts but delivered outside the protoplasts by processes triggered by the signaling peptide. Protoplasts transfected with the other plasmids (the PNP:GFP plasmid and GFP:signalPNP plasmid) showed considerable GFP expression within the protoplasts (Fig. 2C, D). These outcomes demonstrated that PNP-A could only be secreted when its N-terminal signaling peptide is present and that in the absence of it or when it is blocked by the N-terminal GFP the proteins remain trapped in the protoplasts. To confirm this result, we transiently transfected onion epidermal peel cells with signalPNP:GFP where extracellular expression of PNP:GFP is evident 24–48 h after transformation (Fig. 3).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Since PNP-A can be exported from mesophyll cells, we used a promoter:reporter system to examine PNP-A expression to ensure we were observing all the protein induced without complications from natural protein secretion. Using this method we could also compare PNP-A expression with induction of a gene up-regulated by ABA. The RD29A gene is regulated through a cis-acting element ABRE (ABA response element) that interacts with three DREs (dehydration response elements) present to regulate gene expression by ABA and abiotic stresses such as dehydration and salinity (CITATION). We used the ProRD29A:LUC (luciferase) reporter cassette to determine if recombinant PNP-A modulates ABA-induced gene expression as PNP-A was shown to modulate the effect of ABA in guard cells (CITATION). As predicted, the RD29A promoter was up-regulated (Supplementary Fig. S2) in the presence of ABA, with a significant increase in transcript accumulation at 10 μM ABA where a plateau effect was established [further increases in ABA concentration (>10 μM) did not enhance the response]. The addition of recombinant PNP-A did not change the ABA response of the RD29A promoter (Fig. 4). In addition, we also demonstrate using the ProUBQ10:GUS construct as an internal transfection control that in our system we could reliably normalize the ProRD29A:LUC expression against protoplast protein levels (compare Supplementary Fig. S2B with Fig. 4B). Moreover, neither recombinant PNP-A nor its second messenger cGMP added as the membrane-permeant 8-Br-cGMP affected expression of the RD29A promoter (Supplementary Fig. S3).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In a second set of experiments, we transiently co-transfected protoplasts with ProPNP-A:LUC and ProUBQ10:GUS and found that we could normalize our ProPNP-A:LUC results against protoplast protein levels (data not shown). Recombinant PNP-A itself induced a small but significant increase in ProPNP-A:LUC expression. However, neither ABA nor 8-Br-cGMP had any effect on ProPNP-A:LUC expression (Fig. 5).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In a subsequent series of experiments we tested the effect of abiotic stresses on protoplasts transiently transfected with ProRD29A:LUC or ProPNP-A:LUC. As predicted, ProRD29A:LUC expression was significantly increased in response to heat (37°C), salinity (W5 solution containing 154 mM NaCl, 125 mM CaCl2, 5 mM KCl, 2 mM MES, pH 5.7) and osmotica (0.6 M mannitol) 18 h after transfection (Fig. 6A). The ProPNP-A:LUC activity (Fig. 6B) revealed that the PNP-A promoter was also significantly up-regulated by high temperature, salinity and osmoticum at 18 h.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] RT–qPCR was used to analyze mRNA levels for PNP-A expression in mesophyll protoplasts under different stress conditions. The UBQ-10 gene served as a reference as it is one of the more stable reference genes (CITATION). The relative expression of PNP-A transcript was markedly enhanced at 1, 3 and 18 h in response to treatment with PNP-A itself, whereas the other treatments had little or no effect on PNP-A transcript expression (Fig. 7A, C, E). Continuous incubation showed that the mRNA levels of PNP-A were higher under the conditions of heat and ABA (marginally), as well as PNP-A itself after 18 h (Fig. 7E). Western blotting was carried out to determine the translational expression of PNP-A in wild-type protoplasts using rabbit polyclonal antibodies to PNP-A that we have characterized previously (CITATION). The Odyssey Infrared Imaging System was used to quantify the protein levels and it can be seen that basal levels of PNP-A expression are low (Fig. 7B, D, F), possibly because PNP is being secreted, as demonstrated in Figs. 2 and 3. We detected transient increases in PNP-A protein levels in response to salt conditions, while responses to osmotic conditions were slower and more pronounced (Fig. 7B, D, E), which correlates with the ProPNP-A:LUC reporter experiments (Fig. 6B). Only slight increases in PNP-A protein levels were detected in the recombinant PNP-A treatments (Fig. 7B, D, F), and this is similar to results from the ProPNP-A:LUC reporter experiments shown in Fig. 5.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! A ProPNP-A:GUS fusion plasmid containing 2.5 kb of genomic DNA upstream of the AtPNP-A gene (AT2G18660) cloned between the HindIII and BamHI sites of the binary transformation vector (pBP) constructed from pBINPLUS was provided by Dr. Ndiko Ludidi (Stellenbosch University, South Africa). The ProPNP-A:GUS fusion was sequenced and confirmed to be in frame. This plasmid was used as a template to construct the ProPNP-A:LUC plasmid containing the complete promoter sequence between 18,660 and 18,670 of 1,547 bp upstream of the PNP-A gene which was used in transient protoplast expression assays. The ProPNP-A:LUC plasmid was constructed using Gateway cloning technology, and the LUC Trap-3 (GW; GenBank:AY968054) plasmid obtained from Dr. Claus Schwechheimer (CITATION) was used as a destination vector for the cloning. The ProRD29A:LUC plasmid in pUC18 provided by Dr. Jen Sheen (Harvard University, USA) and the ProUBQ10:GUS plasmid provided by Dr. Judy Callis (University of California Davis, USA) were also used for transient protoplast expression. Three plasmids were constructed using Gateway cloning technology to express different GFP-tagged PNP-A fusion proteins in protoplasts. These fused proteins were the signal PNP (amino acids 1–126) C-terminus fused with GFP (signalPNP:GFP), the PNP (amino acids 26–126) C-terminus fused with GFP (PNP:GFP) and the signal PNP (amino acids 1–126) N-terminus fused with GFP (GFP:signalPNP). The vector p2GWF7.0 was used as the destination vector for C-terminal fusion, while the vector p2FGW7.0 was used as destination vector for N-terminal fusion (CITATION). Recombinant PNP-A was prepared as described previously (CITATION). Arabidopsis thaliana (Col-0) plants were grown, and leaves from 5- to 6-week-old plants were used to prepare protoplasts as previously described (CITATION). Plants entering inflorescence were used for Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. ProPNP-A:GUS plasmid (pBP: ProPNP:GUS) was transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58 via electroporation (CITATION). The transformed agrobacteria were cultured in LB medium containing 50 μg ml−1 gentamycin and 50 μg ml−1 kanamycin at 27°C. The ProPNP-A:GUS insert was confirmed by PCR amplification (forward primer, 5′-CCTCGTGGAATTTTCCTTCA-3′; reverse primer, 5′-TAATGAGTGACCGCATCGAA-3′). Plant transformation was completed following a modified version of the floral dip protocol (CITATION). When the growth reached log phase [optical denisty (OD) = 0.5–0.8), transformed agrobacteria were pelleted and resuspended in an infiltration medium [0.5× MS (Murashige and Skoog) salt, 5% sucrose and 0.05% Silwet] at an OD of about 2. The inflorescences of Arabidopsis plants were gently dipped into this cell suspension for 10 s. After dipping, the plants were grown in the dark for 24 h and then returned to normal growth conditions. Seeds (T1 seeds) were collected after 4 weeks. Collected T1 transgenic seeds were sterilized and cultured on MS medium plates containing 0.4% agar, 3% sucrose and 50 μg ml−1 kanamycin. The seeds were kept at 4°C in the dark for 3 d, and then grown at 23°C with a 16 h light period for 10 d. Seedlings with green leaves were transferred to fresh MS medium plates without kanamycin for another 5 d when healthy plants (green leaves and long roots) were transferred to soil. Plants containing the insert were verified by PCR amplification and grown for T2 seed harvest. T2 seeds were grown as wild-type plants without kanamycin selection to avoid any possible side effects, and 10 plants (3–5 weeks old) were randomly selected for GUS staining (CITATION). Before staining, two leaves of each plant were ground under liquid nitrogen and stored at −80°C for PCR verification, which was correlated with GUS staining. A wild-type plant was also stained and used as a negative GUS staining control. Protoplast digestion was completed as described previously (CITATION) and, once the enzyme solution was removed, protoplast pellets were suspended in sucrose solution (0.4 M sucrose, 7 mM CaCl2, 3 mM MES, pH 5.7) and then centrifuged at 150 × g for 5 min. Protoplasts floating on the top of sucrose solution were gently collected, and resuspended in W5 solution (154 mM NaCl, 125 mM CaCl2, 5 mM KCl, 2 mM MES, pH 5.7), and then spun at 100 × g for 5 min. The pelleted protoplasts were used for transfection with minor adjustments to the method described (CITATION). For each replicate, 40 μg of plasmid DNA was transfected with 2 × 105 protoplasts. Transfected protoplasts were incubated in 0.5 ml of WI solution (0.4 M mannitol, 4 mM MES, 20 mM KCl, pH 5.7) per replicate. The expression status of fusion proteins was checked after 18 h by flow cytometry as previously described (CITATION) using a BD FACSCanto II flow cytometry system (BD Biosciences) where the viable cell populations were gated based on forward and side scatter values. Direct onion epidermal transformation was based on a previous report (CITATION) using lower onion epidermis peeled into thin sections (about 5 × 20 mm2). These sections were sterilized by 70% ethanol and 0.6% sodium hypochlorite for 10 s each, followed by washing three times with sterile water and once with MS medium (CITATION) containing 0.3% sucrose. The sterile sections were cultured on the same solid MS medium in the dark at 25°C for 24 h. Thereafter the sections were dipped into osmotic solution (MS culture medium containing 0.4 M mannitol) for 10 min, and then transferred into transformation solution (MS culture medium with 2 μg ml−1 signalPNP:GFP plasmid, while control was without the plasmid). The transformation was carried out in the dark for 8 h with gentle shaking (50 r.p.m.). After incubation, onion sections were washed briefly with MS culture medium and cultured onto fresh solid medium in the dark at 25°C. Transformation results were checked using fluorescent microscopy (excitation at 488 nm and emission at 530 nm) at 24 and 48 h, respectively. Protoplasts were transfected with minor modifications to the standard procedure (CITATION). In each sample, 5 × 104 protoplasts were transfected with 20–40 μg of plasmid DNA (depending on the different experimental requirements). After transfection, protoplast pellets were suspended (1 ml per sample) in WI solution with treatment applied, in salt solution (W5 solution) or in high osmotic solution (0.6 M mannitol, 3 mM MES, 7 mM CaCl2, pH 5.7), dependent on the different experimental designs. Samples were incubated in a 24-well plate (1 ml solution per well) at 23°C in the dark. For samples transfected with the same plasmids, all samples were pooled together to complete the transfection process first. Then transfected protoplasts were separated into 1 ml aliquots and different treatments applied. After 3 or 18 h incubation, different samples were collected separately and spun at 100 × g for 5 min. Protoplast pellets of each sample were homogenized in 100 μl of Luciferase Plant Cell Lysis Buffer (Promega Australia) by vigorous vortexing for 10 s. Cell lysate was centrifuged at 13,000 × g for 30 s and the supernatant was stored at −80°C for further reporter assays. GUS assay buffer contained 4.4 mg of 4-methylumbelliferyl-β-d-glucuronide (MUG) per 10 ml of Luciferase Plant Cell Lysis buffer. For each sample, 20 μl of cell lysate was added to 0.5 ml of GUS assay buffer, warmed to 37°C and incubated for 60 min. Then 100 μl of the assay solution was placed into 900 μl of stop buffer (0.2 M Na2CO3) and thoroughly mixed before removing a 100 μl aliquot into a 96-well white plate (Nuclon). Standard solutions of methyumbelliferone (MU) at 1 nM to 10 μM were prepared in stop buffer. Fluorescence was detected at an excitation wavelength of 365 nm and emission at 455 nm using a NOVO Star microplate reader (BMG Labtechnologies). MU production was expressed as pmol min−1 μg protoplast protein−1. For LUC activity, cell lysate was thawed at 4°C and then 20 μl per well was added to a 96-well Geriner plate (Geriner Bio-One). The injector of the NOVO Star microplate reader automatically injected 100 μl of Luciferase Assay Reagent (Promega) into every sample well, and then the measurement head detected luminescence intensity from the injected well immediately. LUC activity was normalized by 10 s time periods per μg of protein or GUS activity. Protein concentrations were determined with a Qubit® fluorometer (Invitrogen) using a Quant-iT™ protein assay kit (Invitrogen). All calculations and graphs were prepared using GraphPad Prism 5.0 (GraphPad Software). Protoplast transient expression assays were analyzed by one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) followed by the Tukey–Kramer multiple comparison post-test (P < 0.05). Each experiment was repeated at least three times (n ≥ 3). Protoplasts were isolated from 5- to 6-week-old plants and then separated into aliquots (∼600 mg of leaves per aliquot) in basic incubation solution (0.4 M mannitol, 7 mM CaCl2, 3 mM MES, pH 5.7) with the treatment, in salt solution (W5 solution) or in high osmotic solution (0.6 M mannitol, 3 mM MES, 7 mM CaCl2, pH 5.7), depending on the experimental requirements. After 1, 3 or 18 h incubation, protoplasts were spun down at 100 × g for 5 min. Protoplast pellets were rapidly frozen in liquid nitrogen and then stored at −80°C. The RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen) was used to extract RNA from stored samples. Extracted RNA was further digested with DNase I (Ambion). Then the total RNA (1 μg per sample) was converted to cDNA using the SuperScript™ III Reverse Transcriptase Kit (Invitrogen) and used for PCR amplification. The UBQ-10 gene was chosen as a reference gene for RT–qPCR experiments as it has relatively stable expression (CITATION). The qPCR experiments were undertaken using a Rotorgene RT-3000 (Corbett Research) and data were analyzed with Rotorgene software (version 6). The primers for the UBQ-10 gene (AT4G05320) were: forward primer, 5′-AAATCTCGTCTCTGTTATGC-3′; and reverse primer, 5′-GGAACGGAAACATAGTAGAA-3′; while the primers for the PNP-A gene (AT2G18660) were: forward primer, 5′-TACACTAGGTCTGCGTGTTA-3′; and reverse primer, 5′-AGAAATCAACTACCTTCACG-3′. For the UBQ-10 gene, 0.5 μl of cDNA was added to make a 20 μl reaction mixture which contained SensiMix™plusSYBR® reagent (Quantace) and 200 nM primers for each sample. Every sample was prepared in either triplicate or duplicate and experiments were repeated at least three times independently. PCR running conditions for the UBQ-10 gene were set to initial denaturation at 95°C for 10 min, and 35 cycles of DNA amplification (denaturation at 95°C for 20 s, annealing at 52°C for 20 s, extension at 72°C for 20 s). Fluorescence was acquired at 72°C (extension stage) during each cycle. Final extension was held at 72°C for 1 min and then melting point analysis was conducted. Similar running conditions were used for the PNP-A gene, except that DNA amplification was completed with 45 cycles and the reaction mixture contained 1.5 μl of cDNA and 100 nM primers. Data were calculated according to the method of CITATION). The reaction efficiency was determined by running a dilution series of cDNA (from control protoplasts). The reaction efficiencies for UBQ-10 and PNP-A genes were 1.06 ± 0.06 and 0.97 ± 0.06 (or 2.06 ± 0.06 and 1.97 ± 0.06 using the Pfaffl definition), respectively. Protoplasts were isolated and treated as described above and proteins were extracted in an extraction buffer composed of 50 mM Tris, 5 mM EDTA, 10 mM KCl, 0.25 M sucrose, 2.5 mM 1,4-dithiothreitol (DTT), 5 mM ascorbate, 0.6% polyvinylpolypyrrolidone (PVPP), 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (PMSF) and 1 : 10 protease inhibitor cocktail (#539133, Calbiochem). About 60 μl of extraction buffer was added to each protoplast sample. Protoplasts were homogenized by vigorous vortexing and kept on ice for 30 min and then mixed by vortexing again. The homogenized protoplast solution was centrifuged at 2,000 × g for 15 min at 4°C and pellets were discarded. Protein concentrations of the supernatants were measured using the Quant-iT™ protein assay kit. Equal amounts (20 μg) of total proteins from each treatment were separated by SDS–PAGE (12% acrylamide) by the discontinuous buffer method of CITATION) using the BioRad Mini-Protean 3 system and electrotransferred to nitrocellulose membranes that were air-dried overnight before saturating membranes and probing with primary antibodies as described (CITATION). The Western blotting was completed by following the protocol of Odyssey Western Blot Analysis (LI-COR Biosciences). The primary antibody was prepared against the peptide CRETLVVGVKNNL (amino acids 44–55 of At PNP-A) representing a unique site within the active region of PNP-A (CITATION) and purified as previously described (CITATION). Membranes were incubated with primary antibody (anti-PNP-A) in a 1 : 300 ratio at 4°C overnight, and then with secondary antibody [IRDye 680 goat anti-rabbit IgG (H + L) from LI-COR Biosciences] in a 1 : 15,000 ratio at room temperature for 30 min. After the procedures were completed, the membranes were scanned and analyzed using an Odyssey Infrared Imaging System (LI-COR Biosciences). The intensity data were normalized to the control sample and are shown as ratios.
