!~ABS~! Chloroplast signals regulate hundreds of nuclear genes during development and in response to stress, but little is known of the signals or signal transduction mechanisms of plastid-to-nucleus (retrograde) signaling [ CITATION ]. In Arabidopsis thaliana , genetic studies using norflurazon (NF), an inhibitor of carotenoid biosynthesis, have identified five GUN ( g enomes un coupled) genes, implicating the tetrapyrrole pathway as a source of a retrograde signal. Loss of function of any of these GUN genes leads to increased expression of photosynthesis-associated nuclear genes (PhANGs) when chloroplast development has been blocked by NF [ CITATION ]. Here we present a new Arabidopsis gain-of-function mutant, gun6-1D , with a similar phenotype. The gun6-1D mutant overexpresses the conserved plastid ferrochelatase 1 (FC1, heme synthase). Genetic and biochemical experiments demonstrate that increased flux through the heme branch of the plastid tetrapyrrole biosynthetic pathway increases PhANG expression. The second conserved plant ferrochelatase, FC2, colocalizes with FC1, but FC2 activity is unable to increase PhANG expression in undeveloped plastids. These data suggest a model in which heme, specifically produced by FC1, may be used as a retrograde signal to coordinate PhANG expression with chloroplast development.
!~RES~! A previous genetic screen in Arabidopsis identified mutations in five GUN ( g enomes un coupled) genes that caused the photosynthesis-associated nuclear gene (PhANG) LHCB ( l ight h arvesting c omplex b inding protein) to still be expressed when chloroplast development had been blocked by norflurazon (NF) treatment (i.e., the gun phenotype) [ CITATION ]. Microarray analyses further indicated that hundreds of genes were misregulated in these mutants [ CITATION ]. GUN2 , 3 , 4 , and 5 encode proteins acting at the branchpoint (protoporphyrin-IX [Proto]; CITATION C ) between the chlorophyll and heme branches of the plastid tetrapyrrole biosynthetic pathway. These mutants are defective in specific subunits of Mg-chelatase, which synthesizes Mg-protoporphyrin-IX (MgProto) from Proto ( gun5 ), in a protein that increases Mg-chelatase efficiency ( gun4 ), or they are defective in heme catabolism (gun2 , gun3 ), leading to the accumulation of heme [ CITATION ]. Free heme negatively regulates the synthesis of 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA) and reduces flux through the pathway [ CITATION ]. These and other studies [ CITATION ] led to the proposal that gun mutants block the accumulation of a negative signal in damaged plastids, with MgProto being the proposed signaling molecule [ CITATION ]. Newer reports have both supported and challenged this model [ CITATION ]. In agreement with the model, an Arabidopsis chlM (encoding the MgProto methyltransferase; CITATION C) null mutant accumulates high levels of MgProto and has strong repression of LHCB [ CITATION ], and Proto and MgProto can accumulate in the cytoplasm of NF-treated Arabidopsis cells [ CITATION ]. However, improvements in tetrapyrrole analysis have shown that there is no bulk accumulation of MgProto in barley [ CITATION ] or of any tetrapyrrole species in Arabidopsis when plastid development is blocked with NF [ CITATION ]. Instead, MgProto and other tetrapyrrole pathway intermediates accumulate to lower levels as a result of downregulation of the pathway enzymes. In an attempt to resolve the conflicting information, we performed a gain-of-function genetic screen in Arabidopsis using activation-tagging mutagenesis (see CITATION available online). One candidate with a dominant phenotype, called gun6-1D , was identified. To quantify the gun phenotype of gun6-1D , we analyzed five PhANGs whose expression is regulated by chloroplast development [ CITATION ]: CA1 (carbonic anhydrase), CP12 (chloroplast protein 12), LHCB , PC (plastocyanin), and RBCS (RuBisCO small subunit). Expression of these PhANGs was dramatically lowered in NF-treated wild-type seedlings whose chloroplast development had been blocked ( CITATION A), whereas their expression was much higher in gun2 , 4 , 5 , and gun6-1D . A similar pattern was observed for the plastid- and nuclear-encoded proteins RuBisCO large subunit (RBCL) and PC, respectively ( CITATION D). In gun6-1D , a T-DNA insertion was found 8 kb from plastid FC1 (At5g26030, GenBank AAD40138.1 ) ( CITATION A), causing an ∼3-fold increase in both FC1 expression and total plastid ferrochelatase activity ( CITATION G). FC1 can be induced up to 30-fold by tobacco mosaic virus infection [ CITATION ], suggesting that FC1 transcript levels in gun6-1D seedlings are well within physiological range. To confirm that overexpression of FC1 caused the gun phenotype in gun6-1D , we constructed stable Arabidopsis transformants constitutively overexpressing FC1 ( FC1-OX ). Using the pOCA107 reporter [ CITATION ] (see CITATION ), NF-treated T2 seedlings from 67 of 81 independent transformants tested positive for LHCB expression ( CITATION B). Histochemical GUS staining of NF-treated FC1-OX seedlings showed that LHCB was still expressed in the shoot tissue ( CITATION C). We further studied three representative FC1-OX lines (250-1, 250-4, and 251-1) that expressed detectable amounts of tagged FC1 transcript and protein ( CITATION D, S1E, and CITATION A). PhANG expression in these lines was comparable to the original gun mutants ( CITATION B). The Fe 2+ chelator dipyridyl (DP), which has been shown to reduce ferrochelatase activity in vivo [ CITATION ], completely abolished the gun phenotype of line 250-1 ( CITATION B). At the same time, overexpression of a catalytically inactive variant of FC1 (substituting the conserved active site histidine 284 with alanine [ CITATION ]) was unable to induce expression of PhANGs (line 33-5; CITATION B; CITATION B and S1F). Together, these data show that the increased FC1 enzyme activity is responsible for the gun6-1D phenotype. The increase of FC1 activity is expected to increase the synthesis of heme, which has been shown to be a positive retrograde signal from mitochondria and plastids in yeast [ CITATION ] and algae [ CITATION ], respectively. FC1 activity may also increase phytochromobilin levels ( CITATION B) and affect phytochrome signaling, but measurements of hypocotyl lengths in various light conditions suggested that FC1-OX lines had a wild-type phytochrome response ( CITATION D). Furthermore, because blocking heme catabolism and phytochromobilin synthesis ( gun2 and gun3 ; CITATION A and 1C) also increases PhANG expression in NF-treated seedlings, heme may be a positive retrograde signal in plants. Heme accumulation, however, is known to reduce tetrapyrrole synthesis by inhibiting glutamyl-tRNA reductase enzyme (encoded by HEMA ) activity and therefore reducing ALA and chlorophyll synthesis ( CITATION C) [ CITATION ]. Indeed, the FC1 - OX lines had reduced chlorophyll levels ( CITATION A ; CITATION A), suggesting that ALA synthesis was inhibited or that Proto was being shunted away by FC1 from the chlorophyll branch of the pathway. To distinguish between increased heme synthesis versus the inhibition of ALA and/or chlorophyll synthesis being responsible for the gun phenotype in FC1-OX lines, we used gabaculine (GAB), an inhibitor of glutamate-1 semialdehyde aminotransferase (GSA), to reduce ALA synthesis [ CITATION ] ( CITATION C). Consistent with a positive signaling role for heme, PhANG expression in FC1-OX line 250-1 was repressed by GAB treatment, and this effect was reversed by simultaneously feeding ALA ( CITATION A ). Increasing ALA levels in NF-treated seedlings by direct ALA feeding ( CITATION B) or by overexpression of plastid-localized HEMA2-YFP-HA ( CITATION B) also increased PhANG expression. If heme is a positive signal from plastids, then mutants defective in the early steps in the tetrapyrrole pathway should not have a gun phenotype. Indeed, PhANG expression in NF-treated hema1 , hema2 , and hema1 / hema2 double mutant or lin2 [ CITATION ] (encoding coproporphyrinogen oxidase) mutants was comparable to wild-type ( CITATION A), even though these mutations blocked the tetrapyrrole biosynthesis pathway and led to chlorophyll deficiency ( CITATION A; CITATION B). Analysis of lines expressing truncated variants of FC1-YHP-HA lacking the N-terminal plastid localization signal (FC1Δ2–47, line 68; FC1Δ2–35, line 70) further supported the conclusion that heme synthesis, rather than a reduction of ALA and/or chlorophyll, is responsible for PhANG expression in FC1-OX lines. PhANGs were still expressed in these lines when treated with NF ( CITATION B ), but unlike in other gun mutants, chlorophyll levels were increased ( CITATION A). The ability of these FC1 variants to uncouple gun signaling from tetrapyrrole synthesis inhibition may be due to their apparent mislocalization ( CITATION F), even though FC1-YFP-HA protein and increased ferrochelatase activity were still associated with plastid membranes ( CITATION G and S1H). Similar to an earlier report [ CITATION ], NF-treated seedlings contained approximately 50% of the total noncovalently bound heme as green seedlings ( CITATION B), likely as a result of the downregulation of ALA synthesis [ CITATION ] and the tetrapyrrole pathway [ CITATION ]. Of the lines tested, only gun2 mutants had significantly increased heme levels, likely as a result of decreased heme catabolism in the plastid. Total heme levels remained unchanged when FC1 was overexpressed, raising the possibility that FC1 contributes to a specific pool of heme that is responsible for PhANG expression. Plant genomes contain a second conserved plastid ferrochelatase, called FC2 [ CITATION ]. Like FC1, Arabidopsis FC2 (At2g30390, GenBank AAB63095.1 ) was identified by its ability to complement an Saccharomyces cerevisiae ferrochelatase mutant [ CITATION ]. Although both proteins are localized to the plastid thylakoid and envelope membranes [ CITATION ], their sequences and expression profiles suggest functional differences [ CITATION ]. FC2 contains a regulatory [ CITATION ] hydrophobic C-terminal LHC motif [ CITATION ] associated with light harvesting complexes and is coregulated with photosynthetic genes. FC1 , however, is expressed in all tissues and, unlike FC2 , is induced by various stresses. To test whether the overexpression of FC2 can also lead to a gun phenotype, stable transgenic lines constitutively overexpressing full-length FC2 ( FC2 - OX ) or a truncated variant lacking the LHC domain (residues 468–512, FC2 Δ LHC ) were constructed. Using the pOCA107 reporter construct, none of 64 independent lines expressed LHCB more than wild-type when treated with NF ( CITATION B). Four representative lines (252-1, 253-7, 253-8, and 54-4 [ΔLHC] ( CITATION D, S1E, and CITATION C) were studied further. None of the five PhANGs were expressed above wild-type levels in NF-treated lines overexpressing FC2-C/YFP-HA ( CITATION B). Instead CA1 , CP12 , and LHCB were slightly repressed. Similar to gun6-1D , however, plastid ferrochelatase activity was still increased ∼3-fold in NF-treated FC2-OX lines 252-1, 253-7, and 54-4 ( CITATION G). The extra repression of PhANGs may be due to increased FC2 activity, because line 39, overexpressing a catalytically inactive FC2-YFP-HA (H295A) enzyme, mildly increased PhANG expression ( CITATION B; CITATION F). Like FC1-OX lines, the FC2-OX lines had reduced chlorophyll content but unchanged levels of total heme ( CITATION A and 2B; CITATION A). Analysis of both FC1 and FC2 overexpresser lines showed that most have a small increase in HY1 (heme oxygenase), but not HY2 transcripts, suggesting that the plastid may be compensating for increased heme synthesis ( CITATION C). To determine whether the different functions of FC1 and FC2 are conserved in plants, we identified orthologs of the two genes in the monocot Zea mays and overexpressed them in Arabidopsis (a dicot). Z. mays has three ferrochelatases: two FC1 proteins (ZmaFC1A [GenBank ACG39230 ] and ZmaFC1B [GenBank ACG33750 ]) and one FC2 (ZmaFC2 [GenBank ACG32764 ]) protein with 74%, 75%, and 84% identities to their Arabidopsis counterparts, respectively. All three proteins accumulated in plastids ( CITATION D), but only overexpression of FC1A or FC1B increased PhANG expression in NF-treated seedlings ( CITATION B). These results suggest that FC2 activity is unable to positively regulate PhANG expression in NF-treated seedlings and that the specific signaling function of FC1 is conserved between monocots and dicots, the two major groups of flowering plants. Our results suggest that FC1 and FC2 may synthesize physiologically distinct pools of heme from the same biosynthetic pathway. To explore this possibility, we analyzed lines expressing fluorescent-tagged FC1 and FC2 protein driven by their native promoters. The expression profiles matched earlier reports of their transcript profiles [ CITATION ]. Whereas only FC1 was detected in roots, both proteins accumulated in green and NF-treated shoot tissue, with FC1 being slightly induced and FC2 being repressed in the latter condition ( CITATION C). In both cases, FC1 and FC2 colocalized to the same plastids when expressed from their own promoters or overexpressed ( CITATION A; CITATION A and S4B). Moreover, we demonstrated that swapping the different N-terminal plastid sorting signals between FC1 and FC2 (lines 51 and 53) did not affect plastid localization ( CITATION E) or change their impact on PhANG expression ( CITATION B; CITATION B). Together, these results suggest that the functional differences between FC1 and FC2 are not due to different tissue or subcellular localizations. We next measured the effect of loss-of-function ferrochelatase mutants on retrograde signaling. Homozygous null fc1 mutants were not recovered from heterozygous parents (0 of 75 progeny), suggesting an embryonic-lethal phenotype. For these studies, we used weak alleles (T-DNA insertions in the 5′UTR) of fc1 and fc2 that have reduced transcript levels ( CITATION A). The two mutations resulted in opposite phenotypes, with fc1 and fc2 seedlings being less or more responsive to ALA feeding, respectively, compared to wild-type ( CITATION C). These results are consistent with both enzymes utilizing the same pathway to synthesize heme, but with different effects on signaling. The increased PhANG expression in fc2 may be due to increased Proto substrate pools for FC1. gun5 mutants also have increased levels of Proto [ CITATION ] that may be used by FC1. Indeed, blocking all ferrochelatase activity with DP or the introduction of the fc1 but not the fc2 allele into gun5 partially repressed PhANG expression ( CITATION D). Furthermore, similar to FC1-OX lines, PhANG expression in gun5 mutants was reduced by GAB treatment ( CITATION B). The weaker effect of GAB on gun5 mutants may be due to its overall stronger gun phenotype or that Proto levels are sufficiently increased in this line [ CITATION ]. Together, these results suggest that gun5 mutants may be increasing FC1-produced heme by blocking the Mg branch of the pathway.
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis transgenic line pOCA107-2 (Col-0/107) [ CITATION ] in the Columbia background was used as the wild-type and parent line for transgenic constructs except where indicated. This line contains a hygromycin-resistance cassette and the uidA (GUS) histochemical marker under the control of a minimal LHCB1.2 promoter. gun2-1 , gun4-1 , gun5-1 , and lin2 were described previously [ CITATION ] ( CITATION ). The T-DNA insertion lines fc1 (SALK_150001, GabiKat_110D02), fc2 (GabiKat_766H08), hema1 (SALK_056220, SALK_053036), and hema2 (SALK_052000) were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (SALK lines) or the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (Gabi-Kat lines) (Sutton Bonington Campus, UK). Double mutants were obtained by crossing mutant lines, and all genotypes were confirmed by PCR-based markers. Primer sequences for PCR as well as descriptions of the plasmids used and their construction are described in CITATION . Plants were grown in Linsmaier and Skoog medium (pH 5.7) (Caisson Laboratories) with 0.6% micropropagation type 1 agar powder (Caisson Laboratories) at 22°C under cycling light conditions (16 hr light/8 hr dark) of 65 μmol/m 2 /s. Growth of seedlings for hypocotyl measurements is described in CITATION . For NF treatment experiments, medium was supplemented with 1% sucrose (w/v), with or without 5 μM norflurazon (NF; Supelco) and with or without 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA; Sigma-Aldrich), and seedlings were grown under continuous light of 25 μmol/m 2 /s. For feeding experiments, seedlings were germinated on vertical plates for easy removal. After the indicated amount of time, seedlings were placed into liquid medium containing the compound or compounds being administered for 24 hr. Gabaculine (GAB; Sigma-Aldrich) was added to a final concentration of 0.5 mM where indicated. Dipyridyl (DP; Sigma-Aldrich) was added directly to the plate at a final concentration of 1 mM. Total RNA was extracted from whole seedlings using the Spectrum Plant Total RNA kit (Sigma-Aldrich) following the manufacturer's instructions. cDNA was synthesized using oligo(dT) as starting primer and SuperScript III enzyme (Invitrogen) following the manufacturer's instructions. Real-time PCR was performed using an iCycler and MyiQ detection system instrument (Bio-Rad). The following standard thermal profile was used for all PCRs: 95°C for 3 min, 40 cycles of 95°C for 10 s, and 60°C for 1 min. Expression levels for all genes were normalized using actin and 18S rRNA as standards. The primers used for RT-qPCR are listed in CITATION . Preparation of protein extracts and their detection by western blot analysis are described in CITATION . Ferrochelatase activity was measured in crude plastid fractions using the cobalt-deuteroporphyrin assay [ CITATION ] as described in CITATION . For chlorophyll measurements, weighed 3-day-old seedlings were frozen in liquid N 2 and homogenized in 80% (w/v) acetone. Cell debris and precipitated protein were removed by centrifugation at 14,000 × g for 20 min at 4°C. Chlorophyll was measured spectrophotometrically, and measurements were calculated as in [ CITATION ]. Total noncovalently bound heme was measured as in [ CITATION ] as described in CITATION . Confocal microscopy was performed with a Leica SP2 inverted microscope. Image analysis was performed with the Leica SP2 software package and the ImageJ bundle provided by the Wright Cell Imaging Facility (Toronto).
