!~ABS~! Light is an important environmental factor that modulates acclimation strategies and defense responses in plants. We explored the functional role of the regulatory subunit B′γ (B′γ) of protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) in light-dependent stress responses of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). The predominant form of PP2A consists of catalytic subunit C, scaffold subunit A, and highly variable regulatory subunit B, which determines the substrate specificity of PP2A holoenzymes. Mutant leaves of knockdown pp2a-b′γ plants show disintegration of chloroplasts and premature yellowing conditionally under moderate light intensity. The cell-death phenotype is accompanied by the accumulation of hydrogen peroxide through a pathway that requires CONSTITUTIVE EXPRESSION OF PR GENES5 (CPR5). Moreover, the pp2a-b′γ cpr5 double mutant additionally displays growth suppression and malformed trichomes. Similar to cpr5, the pp2a-b′γ mutant shows constitutive activation of both salicylic acid- and jasmonic acid-dependent defense pathways. In contrast to cpr5, however, pp2a-b′γ leaves do not contain increased levels of salicylic acid or jasmonic acid. Rather, the constitutive defense response associates with hypomethylation of DNA and increased levels of methionine-salvage pathway components in pp2a-b′γ leaves. We suggest that the specific B′γ subunit of PP2A is functionally connected to CPR5 and operates in the basal repression of defense responses under low irradiance.
!~RES~! We took a reverse genetic approach to identify components that specifically modulate the capacity of plants to tolerate different light intensities. The pp2a-b′γ mutant, deficient in a specific regulatory B′γ subunit of PP2A, was chosen for further analysis, since it showed an intriguing phenotype with wrinkled leaves, stunted growth, delayed flowering, and age-dependent formation of yellowing lesions when grown under a moderate growth light intensity of 130 μmol photons m−2 s−1 (Fig. 1A; Table I). The premature wilting was reflected by reduced seed production capacity of the pp2a-b′γ mutant plants (Table I). Notably, a knockout line deficient in the PP2A-B′ζ (At3g21650) protein, whose amino acid sequence is 83% identical with that of PP2A-B′γ, revealed no visual phenotype (Supplemental Fig. S1). [[FIGURE]] n = 15 for flowering time, n = 3 for seed production, and n = 6 for photosynthesis activity measurement. The asterisks denote that the t test P value is below 0.05. Sequencing over the T-DNA border of pp2a-b′γ plants revealed an insertion in the 5′ untranslated region of the PP2A-B′γ gene (At4g15415; Fig. 1B). Analysis by quantitative real-time PCR confirmed lower PP2A-B′γ transcript abundance in pp2a-b′γ mutants (0.41-fold ± 0.19-fold compared with PP2A-B′γ levels in the wild type; Fig. 1A). No RNA interference lines or additional T-DNA lines with insertion in the transcribed region of At4g15415 were available for parallel analysis. Thus, to genetically complement the mutation, we introduced the PP2A-B′γ protein-coding sequence under the 35S cauliflower mosaic virus promoter into pp2a-b′γ. In this complementation line, somewhat variable levels of PP2A-B′γ mRNA (2.2-fold ± 1.0-fold compared with wild-type levels) were detected, but the growth rate was restored and no premature yellowing was observed (Fig. 1A). It is worth noting that 35S-driven expression of a PP2A-B′γ-YFP (for yellow fluorescent protein) fusion construct in pp2a-b′γ failed to complement the mutation (data not shown). On the other hand, overexpression of the PP2A-B′γ-YFP fusion construct in wild-type Arabidopsis plants resulted in a yellowing phenotype, which highly resembled that of the pp2a-b′γ mutant (Fig. 1A). This was likely due to a dominant-negative effect on the PP2A complex and not due to cosuppression of PP2A-B′γ, since the abundance of PP2A-B′γ mRNA in the line expressing PP2A-B′γ-YFP was found to be 19-fold higher than that of the wild-type plants (Fig. 1A). Among hundreds of transgenic seedlings screened for the presence of PP2A-B′γ-YFP, only a few individuals showed YFP fluorescence in cotyledons, but all these individuals failed in development and wilted before the appearance of the first true leaves (data not shown). Imaging of Arabidopsis protoplasts transiently overexpressing the fusion construct, however, revealed PP2A-B′γ-YFP fluorescence predominantly in the cytoplasm (Fig. 1C), as also recently reported by CITATION. Similar to attempts to visualize PP2A-B′γ-YFP, detection of PP2A-B′γ by immunoblotting using an antibody raised against PP2A-B′γ repeatedly failed (Fig. 1D), presumably due to low abundance of PP2A-B′γ. Indeed, when PP2A-B′γ was produced in bacteria, the protein could be detected by anti-PP2A-B′γ antibodies (Fig. 1D). To obtain insights into the pattern of PP2A-B′γ gene expression, the uidA (GUS reporter) gene was introduced into wild-type Arabidopsis plants and expressed under the PP2A-B′γ promoter consisting of a 2.8-kb region upstream of the translational start codon on the PP2A-B′γ coding sequence. Subsequent GUS analyses demonstrated that in rosette leaves, the PP2A-B′γ promoter was active in patches that highly resembled the yellowing areas, which developed on pp2a-b′γ mutant leaves upon aging (Fig. 1E). Within these peripheral patches, also the veins showed PP2A-B′γ promoter-driven GUS activity. These results indicate that PP2A-B′γ is a low-abundance signaling component that is specifically expressed in limited areas in leaves. Microscopic examination revealed distinct abnormalities in the mesophyll tissue of pp2a-b′γ plants well before visual detection of yellowing patches under moderate light intensity. In the palisade parenchyma cells of pp2a-b′γ leaves, 28% of the chloroplasts were roundish and/or showed loosening of the photosynthetic membranes (Fig. 2A), which is a phenomenon normally observed at early phases of senescence. In wild-type leaves, such degrading chloroplasts were not observed (Fig. 2B). In the spongy mesophyll tissue of pp2a-b′γ, 64% of chloroplasts showed distinct symptoms of degeneration, and some of the chloroplasts contained thylakoid-free extrusions (Fig. 2C). Intriguingly, the spongy mesophyll tissue of pp2a-b′γ also contained separate cells with a curving plasma membrane indicative of cell death in this specific cell type (Fig. 2C). Confocal microscopy imaging of propidium iodide-stained leaf tissue also revealed separate cells with extensive cell shrinkage and intense propidium iodide staining of nuclei in pp2a-b′γ leaves (Fig. 2D), indicative of cell death. In the remaining thylakoid membranes, however, the photosynthetic membrane protein complexes remained intact (Fig. 2E), and the net CO2 assimilation did not significantly differ between wild-type and pp2a-b′γ plants either (Table I). Collectively, the knockdown of PP2A-B′γ promoted senescence-like symptoms, suggesting that the PP2A activity mediated by B′γ is required for the maintenance of cellular integrity in Arabidopsis leaves. [[FIGURE]] Comparative transcript profiling of pp2a-b′γ and wild-type plants grown for 4 weeks under moderate light intensity revealed constitutively elevated transcript levels of defense-related genes in pp2a-b′γ plants (Supplemental Table S1). The most distinct response was a several-fold increase in expression of salicylic acid (SA)-related components, including PATHOGENESIS-RELATED1 (PR1), PR5, ISOCHORISMATE SYNTHASE1, PHYTOALEXIN-DEFICIENT4, and ENHANCED DISEASE SENSITIVITY1 (EDS1A and EDS1B; Supplemental Table S1). Furthermore, pp2a-b′γ plants showed higher expression levels of resistance (R) genes encoding intracellular Toll-interleukin 1 nucleotide-binding Leu-rich repeat receptors, coiled-coil nucleotide-binding Leu-rich repeat receptors, as well as Leu-rich repeat-class disease resistance proteins (Supplemental Table S1). Finally, the constitutive defense response of pp2a-b′γ manifested as enhanced expression of genes coding for cytosolic h-type thioredoxins, chitinases, glutathione S-transferases, and other defense-related genes (Supplemental Tables S1 and S2). Besides SA-related signaling components, pp2a-b′γ plants also showed higher expression levels of genes related to the biosynthesis of JA or ET compared with the wild type (Supplemental Table S2). Two genes coding for 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate oxidases, three genes coding for allene oxide synthases, lipoxygenase 2, and 12-oxophytodienoate reductase were induced in pp2a-b′γ as compared with wild-type plants (Supplemental Table S1). Also, the ET/JA marker genes encoding PLANT DEFENSIN1.2 and a Tyr aminotransferase (At2g24850; CITATION) were induced in the pp2a-b′γ mutant (Supplemental Table S1). Three general ROS markers, At1g19020, At2g43510, and At1g57630 (CITATION), showed slightly elevated transcript levels in pp2a-b′γ plants (Supplemental Table S1). Among antioxidant enzymes, transcript levels for iron-superoxide dismutase, chloroplast NADPH-dependent thioredoxin reductase, glutathione peroxidase 7, and catalase 2 were lowered in pp2a-b′γ (Supplemental Table S1). In contrast, transcript levels for two genes encoding chloroplastic monodehydroascorbate reductases, three encoding Met sulfoxide reductases, five encoding thioredoxin family proteins, and one for catalase 3 (SEN2) were higher in pp2a-b′γ as compared with wild-type plants (Supplemental Table S1). Moreover, slightly increased expression of cell death antagonists, including At5g47120 and At3g16770, which have a role in the suppression of Bcl2-associated X protein-induced programmed cell death, was also observed in pp2a-b′γ (Supplemental Table S1). Altogether, pp2a-b′γ plants show a constitutive reprogramming of transcript accumulation for ROS-, SA-, and JA/ET-responsive genes. Next, we compared the transcript profiles of 4-week-old pp2a-b′γ and wild-type plants grown under normal growth light (130 μmol photons m−2 s−1) or under high light (800 μmol photons m−2 s−1). Differences in transcript profiles of the wild type and pp2a-b′γ were particularly pronounced when the plants were grown under normal growth light conditions, where differential regulation (greater than 1.5-fold and P < 0.05) of 645 genes was observed (Fig. 3; Supplemental Table S2). Of these, 478 showed elevated transcript levels in pp2a-b′γ compared with the wild type (Fig. 3A). In high-light-grown pp2a-b′γ plants, the number of differentially expressed genes was 317, of which 235 showed increased transcript levels (Fig. 3A). Associated with a partial dampening of defense gene expression (Supplemental Table S2), also the yellowing phenotype of pp2a-b′γ could be rescued upon growth under high light (Fig. 3B). [[FIGURE]] Similar to pp2a-b′γ, the lesion-mimic mutant cpr5 also showed up-regulation of SA and JA marker genes and underwent premature senescence when grown under moderate growth light conditions (CITATION). Thus, we tested the genetic interaction between pp2a-b′γ and cpr5. Parallel growth of cpr5 and pp2a-b′γ revealed that the onset of yellowing occurred somewhat earlier in cpr5. With respect to yellowing, the pp2a-b′γ cpr5 double mutant resembled cpr5. However, the growth rate of pp2a-b′γ cpr5 was reduced as compared with either of the parental lines (Fig. 3B). When grown under high light intensity, the growth rate of pp2a-b′γ, cpr5, and the pp2a-b′γ cpr5 plants was partly restored (Fig. 3B). During characterization of the mutant phenotypes, we noted that the apparent functional connection between PP2A-B′γ and CPR5 is reflected also by aberrant trichomes. The cpr5 mutant has a distinct trichome phenotype with two branches, whereas wild-type trichomes generally have three branches (CITATION; Fig. 3B). The pp2a-b′γ plants commonly showed trichomes with three or four branches, whereas the pp2a-b′γ cpr5 double mutant revealed an additive malformation, displaying branchless trichomes of severely reduced cell size (Fig. 3B). Whereas diaminobenzidine (DAB) staining showed increased accumulation of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), particularly in the oldest leaves of pp2a-b′γ, no distinct DAB staining was observed in cpr5 or the pp2a-b′γ cpr5 double mutant (Fig. 3B). Furthermore, after long-term growth under high light, none of the plants revealed distinct H2O2 accumulation (Fig. 3B). The differential ROS accumulation in the different mutant backgrounds prompted us to use the methyl viologen (MV) test to examine the sensitivity of visually healthy pp2a-b′γ, cpr5, and pp2a-b′γ cpr5 plants to photooxidative stress. MV extracts electrons from PSI and then reacts with molecular oxygen to produce superoxide (O2−) and subsequently H2O2 in chloroplasts. Plants were sprayed with 50 μm MV, illuminated under moderate growth light for 6 h, and analyzed for the extent of ion leakage. Clearly, cell death in pp2a-b′γ plants was accelerated by MV treatment as compared with wild-type plants (Fig. 3C). In contrast, neither cpr5 nor the pp2a-b′γ cpr5 double mutant showed any enhanced sensitivity to MV-induced photooxidative stress (Fig. 3C). Disease resistance is generally connected with increased levels of SA and JA in leaves. Parallel analysis of wild-type, pp2a-b′γ, cpr5, and pp2a-b′γ cpr5 plants revealed increased levels of SA and to a lesser extent also JA in cpr5 and pp2a-b′γ cpr5 plants. Notably, pp2a-b′γ plants revealed no changes in hormone levels as compared with wild-type plants (Fig. 3D). To investigate the proteomic profile of pp2a-b′γ leaves, oligomeric protein complexes in total soluble leaf extracts of pp2a-b′γ and wild-type plants were separated by clear native (CN)-PAGE followed by SDS-PAGE in the second dimension (Fig. 4A). For sensitive visualization of spot intensities, gels were first stained with SYPRO Ruby and thereafter silver stained for identification of spots of interest by mass spectrometry (Table II). [[FIGURE]] Imaging of SYPRO-stained two-dimensional (2D) gels revealed 11 proteins with consistently higher abundance in pp2a-b′γ soluble leaf extracts as compared with wild-type plants (Fig. 4A; Table II). These proteins were assigned to different functional groups, including defense and stress, amino acid metabolism, Met-salvage pathway, and the nonoxidative branch of the pentose phosphate pathway (Table II). The identified defense- and stress-related proteins included myrosinase thioglucoside glucohydrolase 1 (TGG1), carbonic anhydrase 1 (CA1), glutathione S-transferase F2 (AtGSTF2), and the chloroplastic copper/zinc superoxide dismutase (CSD2; Table II). TGG1 catalyzes the release of toxic compounds from glucosinolates upon biotic challenge, whereas CA1 was identified in a screen for SA-binding proteins and is connected with the onset of hypersensitive cell death in tobacco (CITATION). AtGSTF2, on the other hand, is rapidly induced by different stimuli, including MV, SA, ET, and pathogen attack (CITATION; CITATION), and CSD2 is a key scavenger of O2− in the chloroplast. However, also among the metabolic enzymes up-regulated in pp2a-b′γ, cytoplasmic Gln synthase 1 (AtGLN1;1) and chloroplastic transketolase (TKL) contribute to defense responses and have been shown to increase in abundance in response to pathogen infection (CITATION). Furthermore, ONSET OF LEAF DEATH3 (OLD3), the cytosolic Cys biosynthesis enzyme O-acetyl-Ser(thiol)lyase, maintains cellular thiol levels and has a function in the regulation of cell death (CITATION). AtGSTF2 and CSD2 comigrated on the gels and were identified with high scores from the same spot (Fig. 4A; Table II). Thus, increase in the steady-state level of CSD2 in pp2a-b′γ was confirmed by immunoblotting (Fig. 4B). Regulation of CSD2 function involves the binding of aconitase (ACO) in the 5′ untranslated region of CSD2 mRNA (CITATION). Intriguingly, even though ACO was not identified through the proteomic approach, immunoblotting revealed increased steady-state levels of ACO in pp2a-b′γ as compared with wild-type plants (Fig. 4B). By contrast, the level of fructose bisphosphate aldolase (FBA) showed no major changes between pp2a-b′γ and wild-type plants (Fig. 4B). Two components of the Met-salvage pathway, S-adenosyl-l-homocysteine hydrolase (SAHH) and adenosine kinase (ADK), were also found increased in abundance in pp2a-b′γ as compared with wild-type plants (Fig. 4A; Table II). This result was confirmed by immunoblotting of the 2D gels with anti-SAHH and anti-ADK antibodies (Fig. 4B). Tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) analysis of the protein spots revealed the presence of both SAHH1 and SAHH2 isoforms in two different oligomeric protein complexes, which migrated at different positions on CN-PAGE (Fig. 4A). It is worth noting that the SAHH-containing spot originating from the lower Mr oligomer also contained calreticulin-1, an endoplasmic reticulum-resident lectin chaperone (Fig. 4A; Table II). Notably, however, immunoblotting with anti-SAHH antibody confirmed both the location and the up-regulation of SAHH in pp2a-b′γ as compared with wild-type plants (Fig. 4B). In the Met-salvage pathway, SAHH hydrolyzes S-adenosyl-l-homocysteine, the reaction product of transmethylation reactions, to adenosine and homocysteine. Adenosine in turn becomes phosphorylated by ADK to avoid end product-mediated inhibition of SAHH (CITATION). ADK isoforms were found to comigrate with SAHH in the lower Mr oligomer on CN-PAGE (Figs. 4, A and B). For the identification of phosphoproteins, the acquired MS/MS spectra were analyzed by allowing phosphorylation of Ser and Thr residues as possible modifications in Mascot searches against the Arabidopsis database. This approach revealed the presence of phosphopeptides in SAHH1, TGG1, FBA, TKL, phosphoribulokinase, Gln synthase 2 (GS2), and Ala glyoxylate aminotransferase (AGT1; Table II). To gain insights into possible differences in the pattern of protein phosphorylation between pp2a-b′γ and wild-type plants, 2D CN-PAGE gels were subjected to immunoblotting with phospho-Thr-specific antibody (Fig. 4C). The immunoblot was overlaid with a SYPRO-stained 2D gel, and the detected phosphoproteins were identified as SAHH1, FBA, GS2, and AGT1 based on the relative locations of Rubisco subunits on the gel and on the presence of phosphopeptides in the MS/MS spectra, as presented in Table II. The phosphorylation of Rubisco large subunit on Thr residues has been demonstrated earlier (CITATION). As shown in Figure 4C, the immunoreaction with phospho-SAHH1 was stronger in pp2a-b′γ than in wild-type plants, whereas all other phosphoproteins showed similar or reduced levels in pp2a-b′γ as compared with wild-type plants. Some of the detected phosphoproteins remained unidentified, as they were not visible on SYPRO-stained or silver-stained gels. Finally, the up-regulation of CSD2 in pp2a-b′γ (Fig. 4B) prompted us to utilize one-dimensional SDS-PAGE to explore the levels of chloroplastic and cytoplasmic antioxidant enzymes in pp2a-b′γ and wild-type leaves. The steady-state levels of chloroplastic and cytoplasmic ascorbate peroxidases as well as the chloroplast 2-Cys peroxiredoxin and peroxiredoxin E showed no consistent differences between pp2a-b′γ and wild-type plants (Fig. 4D). However, the steady-state level of peroxiredoxin Q was clearly reduced, and the level of chloroplastic glutathione peroxidase 7 was also slightly lower in pp2a-b′γ plants (Fig. 4D). Altogether, the proteome of pp2a-b′γ seems to respond to defense- and ROS-related pathway changes in leaf tissue. Next, we explored whether the apparent degeneration of cells in pp2a-b′γ leaves (Fig. 2) and the differential adjustments in levels of antioxidant enzymes (Fig. 4) were accompanied by light-dependent imbalances in ROS metabolism. Staining with nitroblue tetrazolium showed distinct accumulation of O2− in the oldest leaves of pp2a-b′γ plants under normal growth light conditions, whereas in wild-type leaves the accumulation of O2− was remote (Fig. 5A). O2− is rapidly dismutated to H2O2 (CITATION). Moreover, ROS production is enhanced under high light, a phenomenon that promotes cell death in various lesion-mimic mutants (CITATION). To determine the extent of H2O2 accumulation upon sudden changes in light conditions in pp2a-b′γ and wild-type plants, the rosettes were floated on 0.1% DAB and illuminated under low light, growth light, or high light (with 20, 130 or 1,000 μmol photons m−2 s−1, respectively) for 2 h. Under low-light conditions, wild-type plants showed hardly any accumulation of H2O2 (Fig. 5A), but with increasing light intensities, the accumulation of H2O2 was observed as brown precipitate on the leaves (Fig. 5A). In the oldest leaves of pp2a-b′γ plants, distinct accumulation of H2O2 was detected already under low-light conditions, and DAB staining was further enhanced when the plants were illuminated under growth light (Fig. 5A). Microscopic examination showed intense DAB staining of H2O2 particularly in chloroplasts of distinct mesophyll cells in pp2a-b′γ leaves (Fig. 5B). Under high irradiance, however, the difference in DAB staining between pp2a-b′γ and the wild type started to level off (Fig. 5A). Accordingly, a gradual PSII photoinhibition of similar extent (measured as Fv/Fm [see “Materials and Methods”] after a 30-min dark incubation) was measured for both the wild type and pp2a-b′γ upon exposure of plants to 1,000 μmol of photons m−2 s−1 at 20°C for 4 h (Fig. 5C). Thus, PP2A-B′γ does not contribute to the vulnerability of plants upon sudden onset of high irradiance. [[FIGURE]] Next, it was tested whether the adjustments in defense-associated components (Table II; Fig. 4) altered the pp2a-b′γ mutant’s response toward different types of plant pathogens. Virulent Pseudomonas syringae pv tomato DC3000 was gently syringe infiltrated at 108 colony-forming units mL−1 into the leaves of pp2a-b′γ and wild-type plants. During the first 2 d post infection, no significant differences in bacterial growth on the leaves of pp2a-b′γ and wild-type plants could be observed (Fig. 6A). Five days post infection, however, 8-fold higher bacterial titers were counted on the leaves of wild-type plants than on the leaves of pp2a-b′γ plants (Fig. 6A). [[FIGURE]] To assess the ability of pp2a-b′γ plants to resist a necrotrophic fungus, lesion formation upon infection by Botrytis cinerea was compared with that in the wild type. Two days post infection, visually observable macerated lesions appeared on wild-type leaves (Fig. 6B). By contrast, pp2a-b′γ mutant plants clearly developed less necrotic symptoms (Fig. 6B). Thus, in accordance with the constitutive expression of defense-related genes (Supplemental Table S1), pp2a-b′γ mutant plants show increased resistance to both a hemibiotrophic and a necrotrophic pathogen. Bacterial infections have been shown to induce changes in the pattern of DNA methylation in plants (CITATION). Furthermore, SAHH1, which showed elevated levels in pp2a-b′γ leaves (Fig. 4), has also been identified as HOMOLOGY-DEPENDENT GENE SILENCING1 (HOG1) and proposed to mediate epigenetic regulation through the maintenance of cellular transmethylation capacity (CITATION). Thus, we explored whether the knockdown of PP2A-B′γ modulates the level of DNA methylation in leaves. To this end, DNA was digested with methylation-sensitive restriction enzymes, which cut unmethylated CCGG sites on DNA, and the global level of DNA methylation was explored by Southern blotting using the repetitive unit of 5S rDNA as a probe. As shown in Figure 7, an increased appearance of restriction products indicative of slight hypomethylation was observed in DNA isolated from pp2a-b′γ leaves. Similar accumulation of DNA restriction products (Fig. 7) was observed with DNA isolated from the yellowing plants overexpressing PP2A-B′γ-YFP (Fig. 1A). In contrast, the level of DNA methylation in the complemented pp2a-b′γ line expressing PP2A-B′γ coding sequence under the 35S promoter was comparable to that of wild-type plants (Figs. 1 and 7). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) ecotype Columbia wild type and the mutants were grown under control conditions of 130 μmol photons m−2 s−1/22°C (growth light) or under 800 μmol photons m−2 s−1/24°C (high light) with 50% humidity and an 8-h light period. Homozygote pp2a-b′γ (SALK_039172 for At4g15415) and pp2a-b′ζ (SALK_107944C for At3g21650) mutant lines were identified from the SALK Institute’s collection by PCR analysis according to the institute’s protocols (CITATION). Insertion mutant information was obtained from the SIGnAL Web site at http://signal.salk.edu. The cpr5 mutant (N3770; At5g64930) was obtained through the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (http://nasc.nott.ac.uk). A pp2a-b′γ cpr5 double mutant was constructed by crossing the pp2a-b′γ and cpr5 single mutants. Mutants homozygous for cpr5 were first selected from the F2 generation based on the absence of trichomes on leaves (CITATION), and individuals homozygous for pp2a-b′γ were further identified by PCR using the same set of primers that were used to screen for the single pp2a-b′γ mutants. For genetic complementation of the pp2a-b′γ mutation, the protein-coding sequence of the PP2A-B′γ gene (S69317; CITATION) was cloned into the binary plant expression vector pGREENII0029 under the control of the 35S cauliflower mosaic virus promoter. For spatial analysis of PP2A-B′γ promoter activity, wild-type Arabidopsis plants were transformed with a promoter::uidA fusion construct containing a 2.8-kb region of genomic DNA upstream of the translational start codon of the PP2A-B′γ coding sequence. After sequencing of the resulting constructs, pp2a-b′γ plants were transformed by floral dipping. GUS staining of expanded leaves expressing the promoter::uidA fusion was performed according to CITATION and imaged with a Zeiss Lumar V12 stereomicroscope (http://www.zeiss.com). For subcellular localization, the PP2A-B′γ coding sequence (S69317; CITATION) without the translational stop codon was fused in frame with YFP in the pGREENII0029-based vector under the control of the 35S promoter. The vector was introduced into Arabidopsis protoplasts isolated from 4- to 5-week-old plants according to previously established methods (CITATION; CITATION). Leaves of 4-week-old plants, not showing visual symptoms of yellowing, were fixed with 2.5% glutaraldehyde in 75 mm sodium cacodylate buffer, pH 7.2, under mild vacuum for 30 min and postfixed with 1% osmium tetraoxide in the same buffer. The tissues were then dehydrated in a graded series of acetone and stained with 1% uranyl acetate in 20% acetone. The samples were embedded in Spurr’s resin, polymerized at 60°C, poststained with lead citrate, and finally examined with an electron microscope (10-Sx; JEOL). Degrading chloroplasts that showed loosening of the thylakoid membrane and roundish or irregular morphology were calculated from eight different images for each cell type. Fluorescence from YFP was imaged with a confocal laser scanning microscope (Zeiss LSM510 META; http://www.zeiss.com) with excitation at 514 nm and detection at 535 to 590 nm. Chlorophyll fluorescence was excited at 543 nm and detected with a 650-nm passing emission filter. Trichomes were imaged after a 5-min staining of cell walls with 10 μg mL−1 Hoechst 33258 (Invitrogen; www.invitrogen.com). Detection was performed at 420 to 480 nm after excitation at 405 nm. Cell death was examined after gently infiltrating the leaves with 0.5 mg mL−1 propidium iodide. Detection of intracellular fluorescence indicative of membrane disruption was performed at 590 to 650 nm after excitation at 488 nm. For all applications, maximal projections of the sequential confocal images were created with Zeiss LSM Image Browser version 3.5.0.376 (http://www.zeiss.com). Four-week-old rosettes of wild-type and pp2a-b′γ mutant plants grown under normal growth conditions (130 μmol photons m−2 s−1) or under high light (800 μmol photons m−2 s−1) were collected 2 h after the onset of the light period. Changes in gene expression were explored with spotted Arabidopsis 24k oligonucleotide arrays (MWG Biotech; http://www.mwg-biotech.com; ArrayExpress database accession no. A-ATMX-2; http://www.ebi.ac.uk/arrayexpress) according to CITATION from three biological replicates using GeneSpring 7.2. Gene annotation was derived from the Arabidopsis Information Resource (http://www.arabidopsis.org). For quantitative real-time PCR, total RNA was extracted as described (CITATION), followed by DNase treatment using the TURBO DNA-Free Kit (Ambion; http://www.ambion.com). Subsequently, cDNA synthesis was carried out with the ISCRIPT cDNA Synthesis Kit (Bio-Rad Laboratories; http://www.bio-rad.com). Real-time PCR was performed using iQ SYBR GREEN SUPERMIX (Bio-Rad Laboratories). PP2A-B′γ cDNA was specifically amplified with the primers FOR (5′-TCAACGAGCTCTAACAGAACCAATCAAGTC-3′) and REV (5′-AACAGCCACTTTCGCAATC-3′). The sensitivity of plants to MV-induced photooxidative stress was explored with 50 μm MV as described by CITATION. For detection of O2−detached rosettes were floated on 0.1% nitroblue tetrazolium (Sigma-Aldrich; http://www.sigmaaldrich.com) with 10 mm NaN3 in 10 mm phosphate buffer, pH 7.8, overnight in darkness, then illuminated under normal growth conditions for 2 h, and finally cleared in 96% (v/v) ethanol. Accumulation of H2O2 in the leaves was detected by using DAB (Sigma-Aldrich) as a substrate (CITATION) with the modifications described (CITATION) and finally photographed with a Zeiss Lumar V12 stereomicroscope (http://www.zeiss.com). Photosynthetic activity was measured under normal growth light (130 μmol photons m−2 s−1/22°C) with the CIRAS-1 combined infrared gas analysis system (PP Systems) equipped with an Arabidopsis pot chamber (PP Systems). The photoinhibition state of PSII in intact leaves was recorded as the ratio of variable to maximal fluorescence (Fv/Fm, where Fv is the difference between maximal fluorescence [Fm] and initial fluorescence), measured with a Hansatech PEA fluorometer after a 30-min dark incubation. Blue native gel electrophoresis of thylakoid protein complexes was performed as described by CITATION. Extraction of total foliar extracts and total soluble leaf extracts was performed in the presence of protease (Complete-Mini; Roche) and phosphatase (PhosSTOP; Roche) inhibitors using the methods described by CITATION. Total soluble leaf extracts corresponding to 80 and 10 μg of proteins were used for analysis by mass spectrometry and immunoblotting, respectively. Soluble oligomeric protein complexes were separated by CN-PAGE followed by SDS-PAGE in the second dimension according to CITATION with the modifications for buffers described (CITATION), except that only 0.05% deoxycholate was used as a detergent on CN gels. After imaging the gels with SYPRO Ruby (Invitrogen), mass spectrometry was performed as described by CITATION using a liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-MS/MS system (QTOF Elite; AB Sciex). MS/MS spectra were analyzed with an in-house installation of Mascot (www.matrixscience.com), with searches restricted to the Swissprot Arabidopsis database, allowing Met oxidation, Cys carboamidomethylation, and Ser/Thr phosphorylation as possible modifications. Immunoblotting with anti-phospho-Thr and protein-specific antibodies was performed as described (CITATION). For detection of phosphoproteins, total soluble leaf extracts corresponding to 80 μg of protein were separated by 2D CN-PAGE, transferred onto a polyvinylidene difluoride membrane (Immobilon-P; Millipore), blocked with 5% (w/v) specific fat-free bovine serum albumin (Sigma), and probed with polyclonal anti-phospho-Thr antibody (P-Thr-Polyclonal; New England Biolabs) diluted 1:1,000 in 5% (w/v) fat-free bovine serum albumin, 1× Tris-buffered saline, and 0.1% Tween 20. According to the manufacturer’s instructions, the P-Thr-Polyclonal antibody binds phospho-Thr in a manner largely independent of the surrounding amino acid sequence. Other antibodies were obtained from Agrisera (http://www.agrisera.se/) or were kindly provided by Prof. K.-J. Dietz (2-Cys peroxiredoxin, peroxiredoxin IIE, and peroxiredoxin Q) and by Prof. B. Moffat (SAHH and ADK1). The total level of 2-Cys peroxiredoxin was explored according to CITATION. The antibody against PP2A-B′γ was raised against the peptides NDPSKNLREKEIKRC and PAMERNTRGHWNQAC (www.antiprot.com) and tested against a cell lysate of Escherichia coli transformed with a pET28 (www.invitrogen.com) containing a C-terminal 6xHIS-tagged PP2A-B′γ coding sequence. Analysis of DNA methylation was performed as described (CITATION) with slight modifications. In brief, DNA was extracted with phenol/chloroform, and 1 to 3 μg of DNA was digested with methylation-sensitive enzymes (HpaII or MspI; New England Biolabs), subjected to electrophoresis on a 1.2% agarose gel, and blotted onto a Hybond N+ membrane. The highly repeated tandem unit of 5S rDNA (CITATION) was PCR amplified using the primers 5′-TCGGGCATTTTCGTGATTTGGGC-3′ (forward) and 5′-AAGTTGTCCTGCTTCTTTCGTCGG-3′ (reverse), purified with NucleoSpin Extract II (Macherey-Nagel), labeled with [α-32P]dCTP using random hexamer priming (Prime-a-Gene labeling system; Promega), and finally used for hybridization of the membrane at 65°C overnight. Plant hormones were analyzed using a modified vapor-phase extraction method (CITATION) as described (CITATION) without the final silylation step for the analysis of JA. As internal standards, 50 ng of [13C]SA and 50 ng of dihydrojasmonic acid were added to the extraction buffer. For infection of plants, Pseudomonas syringae pv tomato DC3000 was grown in NYG medium (0.5% tryptopeptone, 0.3% yeast extract, and 2% glycerol) at 28°C overnight. Thereafter, 4-week-old plants were infected gently using a needleless syringe on the lower side of the leaf using 108 colony-forming units mL−1 and 10 mm MgCl2. For each time point, eight leaves corresponding to 1.2 mg fresh weight were pooled and ground in 10 mm MgCl2, and bacterial count mg−1 fresh weight was assessed as described earlier (CITATION). Leaves of Arabidopsis were inoculated with 10-μL conidial suspensions (2 × 105 conidia mL−1) of Botrytis cinerea (provided by N. Temme, Westfälische Wilhelms-Universität Munster). The strain, media, culture conditions, and pathogenicity assay were conducted according to CITATION. Infected plants were incubated in a humidity chamber at 20°C under normal growth light conditions. The numerical data were subjected to statistical analysis using Student’s t test, with statistical significance at the level of P < 0.05. No new sequence data were generated in this study. If needed, the GenBank accession number for At4g15415 is NM_179059. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Amino acid sequence alignment of At4g15415 and At3g21650 and visual phenotypes of 4-week-old mutants deficient in PP2A-B′γ or PP2A-B′ζ. Supplemental Table S1. Defense-related genes differentially expressed in pp2a-b′γ relative to wild-type plants under normal growth light conditions (130 μmol photons m−2 s−1/22°C). Supplemental Table S2. Adjustments in gene expression in knockdown pp2a-b′γ mutant plants grown under different light intensities.
