!~ABS~! NimA-related kinase 6 (NEK6) has been implicated in microtubule regulation to suppress the ectopic outgrowth of epidermal cells; however, its molecular functions remain to be elucidated. Here, we analyze the function of NEK6 and other members of the NEK family with regard to epidermal cell expansion and cortical microtubule organization. The functional NEK6–green fluorescent protein fusion localizes to cortical microtubules, predominantly in particles that exhibit dynamic movement along microtubules. The kinase-dead mutant of NEK6 (ibo1-1) exhibits a disturbance of the cortical microtubule array at the site of ectopic protrusions in epidermal cells. Pharmacological studies with microtubule inhibitors and quantitative analysis of microtubule dynamics indicate excessive stabilization of cortical microtubules in ibo1/nek6 mutants. In addition, NEK6 directly binds to microtubules in vitro and phosphorylates β-tubulin. NEK6 interacts and co-localizes with NEK4 and NEK5 in a transient expression assay. The ibo1-3 mutation markedly reduces the interaction between NEK6 and NEK4 and increases the interaction between NEK6 and NEK5. NEK4 and NEK5 are required for the ibo1/nek6 ectopic outgrowth phenotype in epidermal cells. These results demonstrate that NEK6 homodimerizes and forms heterodimers with NEK4 and NEK5 to regulate cortical microtubule organization possibly through the phosphorylation of β-tubulins.
!~RES~! Our previous study demonstrated that green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged NEK6 transiently expressed in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves localizes to cortical microtubules (CITATION). To demonstrate the functional relevance of NEK6 to microtubule function, we analyzed the subcellular localization and dynamics of NEK6 in live cells of A. thaliana. For this experiment, GFP was fused to the C-terminus of NEK6 and expressed under the control of the native NEK6 promoter in the ibo1-4/nek6-1 mutant background. We used the mutant allele ibo1-4/nek6-1 in which NEK6 mRNA is absent (CITATION). The ibo1-4 mutants exhibited ectopic outgrowth of epidermal cells in the hypocotyls and petioles, while the NEK6pro:NEK6-GFP lines in the ibo1-4 background had no ectopic outgrowth or protrusions (Figure S1 in Supporting Information). This result indicated that GFP-tagged NEK6 was functional. NEK6-GFP localized to filamentous structures and concentrated in particles along the filaments (Figure 1a–d). We investigated the pattern of NEK6-GFP localization by double immunofluorescence microscopy using antibodies against α-tubulin and GFP. As shown in Figure 1(a), NEK6-GFP localized to cortical microtubules. To confirm the association of NEK6-GFP with microtubules, we treated NEK6-GFP lines with the microtubule-depolymerizing drug oryzalin and the microtubule-stabilizing drug taxol. In the presence of oryzalin, NEK6-GFP signal was dispersed throughout the cytosol, whereas the addition of taxol stabilized the association of NEK6-GFP with cortical microtubules (Figure 1b). The localization pattern of NEK6-GFP was almost identical to that of transiently expressed GFP-NEK6 in our previous study (CITATION). These results demonstrated that NEK6 associates with cortical microtubules. [[FIGURE]] Time-lapse imaging with spinning disk confocal microscopy revealed the dynamic behavior of NEK6-GFP particles on the microtubules (Figure 1c,d, Video Clips S1 and S2). When one moving particle labeled with NEK6-GFP encountered another, these particles collided and were repulsed from each other (upper panels in Figure 1c, Video Clip S1). Some particles collided and fused with each other and then divided into small size particles (lower panels in Figure 1c, Video Clip S1). The NEK6-GFP signals were sometimes concentrated at the ends of filaments labeled with NEK6-GFP, which exhibited growth and shrinkage (boxed region in Figure 1c,d, Video Clips S1 and S2). When the NEK6-GFP particle encountered another pre-existing microtubule labeled by NEK6-GFP, this NEK6-GFP particle was repulsed (Figure 1d, Video Clip S2). During cytokinesis, NEK6-GFP localized to phragmoplasts and mitotic spindles (Figure 1e,f). From these results, NEK6 predominantly associates with microtubules and the particles labeled with NEK6 exhibit dynamic movement along microtubules. To determine whether NEK6 directly binds to microtubules, we performed an in vitro microtubule co-sedimentation assay. Taxol-stabilized microtubules were incubated with or without the full-length NEK6 fused at the N-terminus with glutathione S-transferase (GST-NEK6) and proteins were pelleted by centrifugation. When GST-NEK6 was incubated and centrifuged in the absence of microtubules, GST-NEK6 existed in the supernatant. When GST-NEK6 was incubated with microtubules, GST-NEK6 was recovered in the pellet (Figure S2). This result indicates the direct interaction of NEK6 with microtubules. To investigate the expression pattern of NEK6 protein during development, β-glucuronidase (GUS) was fused to the C-terminus of NEK6 and expressed under the native NEK6 promoter in the ibo1-1 mutant. The NEK6pro:NEK6-GUS construct restored the wild-type phenotype to the ibo1-1 mutant, indicating that the NEK6-GUS fusion protein was functional (Figure S1). NEK6-GUS was preferentially accumulated in dividing or expanding cells of embryos and seedlings (Figure S3). In addition, NEK6-GUS was accumulated in the root apical meristem, lateral root meristem, shoot apical meristem, leaf primordia, and vascular tissue (Figure S3). During reproductive development, NEK6-GUS was preferentially expressed in inflorescent stems, flower buds, and carpels. These expression patterns suggested that NEK6 is involved in cellular division and expansion during the development of various organs and tissues. To investigate the possible involvement of NEK6 in microtubule function, we monitored the organization of cortical microtubules in the wild-type and ibo1-1 mutant by using GFP-tagged β-tubulin 6 (GFP-TUB6). We used seedlings grown in the long-day condition (16 h light and 8 h dark) or in continuous light (24 h light) because the ectopic protrusions are formed in these conditions but suppressed in the dark condition (CITATION). In the wild-type epidermal cells, cortical microtubules are arranged in a homogeneous array perpendicular or slightly oblique to the longitudinal axis of cells (Figure 2a,b). In the epidermal cells of the ibo1-1 mutant before ectopic outgrowth, cortical microtubules were arranged more randomly and irregularly than those of the wild-type (Figure 2c). At the first stage of outgrowth, cortical microtubules appeared to curve around the outgrowth point (Figure 2d). During ectopic outgrowth in the epidermal cells, cortical microtubule arrays became more irregular and gradually exhibited a whirled pattern in the early outgrowth point (Figure 2e,f). Finally, cortical microtubules oriented perpendicular to the growth axis of ectopic protuberance in the ibo1-1 mutant (Figure 2g,h). Figure 2(i) illustrates the stages of ectopic outgrowth in Figure 2(c–h). This result suggested that NEK6 is involved in the organization of cortical microtubule arrays. [[FIGURE]] Our previous immunofluorescence analysis could not detect cortical microtubule defects in ibo1 mutants (Figure S3 in CITATION). This might be due to technical problems. In our previous analysis, it was difficult to stain cortical microtubules of hypocotyl epidermal cells and cortical microtubules were detected in a relatively small number of hypocotyl cells. Therefore, this might make it difficult to investigate microtubules specifically focusing on morphologically affected cells in hypocotyls. The previous immunofluorescence analysis only allowed limited cells to be studied whereas our current study makes it possible to study more cells at different stages of protrusion formation. To address the role of NEK6 in microtubule organization, changes in microtubule dynamics in the ibo1-1 mutant were analyzed. First, we analyzed the effect of a microtubule-depolymerizing drug, oryzalin, on cortical microtubules in the hypocotyl epidermal cells. In the wild type, the majority of the cortical microtubules were depolymerized after treatment with oryzalin at 6 μm for 40 min (Figure 2j). In contrast to this, cortical microtubules in the ibo1-1 mutant were resistant to the same treatment with oryzalin (Figure 2j). In both the wild type and ibo1-1 mutant, treatment with 10 μm oryzalin for 15 min was sufficient to depolymerize all cortical microtubules. This result suggests increased stability of cortical microtubules in the hypocotyl epidermal cells of the ibo1-1 mutant. Next, we analyzed microtubule dynamics in the wild type and ibo1-1 mutant. The dynamics of the plus end of individual cortical microtubules was monitored in the epidermal cells of hypocotyls by using GFP-TUB6. Table S1 shows the velocities of growth and shrinkage, frequency of catastrophe and rescue, the microtubule dynamics, and the percentages of time that microtubules spent in periods of growth, shrinkage, and pause. Most parameters of microtubule dynamics were not significantly different between the wild type and ibo1-1 mutant, whereas the time spent in the pause state in ibo1-1 was significantly increased than that in the wild type (Table S1). The plus-ends of microtubules in ibo1-1 tended to spend more time in pause than did those of the wild type. These results indicate that microtubules were stabilized in the epidermal cells of the ibo1-1 mutant. To further investigate the involvement of NEK6 in microtubule regulation, we analyzed the effects of the microtubule-depolymerizing drug propyzamide and the microtubule-stabilizing drug taxol on ectopic outgrowth in ibo1 mutants (Figure 3). Propyzamide induced protrusions in hypocotyl epidermal cells in the wild type at a low frequency (0.7 protrusions per seedling), as described by CITATION. Interestingly, propyzamide significantly suppressed the formation of protuberances by the hypocotyl epidermal cells in ibo1 mutants (Figure 3). On the contrary, the addition of taxol strongly enhanced protuberance formation in ibo1 mutants (Figure 3). These results suggest that microtubule stabilization is involved in the ibo1 ectopic outgrowth phenotype. [[FIGURE]] In a previous study, the nek6 phenotype was slightly enhanced but not suppressed by propyzamide (CITATION). Here, we find the suppression by propyzamide of the nek6 phenotype. This discrepancy might be due to differences in the growth conditions including the growth media and light conditions. Seedlings were grown on Okada and Shimura medium in CITATION while seedlings are grown on the modified half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium in this study. Because our previous study indicates that the nek6 phenotype is enhanced by ethylene but is suppressed by gibberellin and etiolation (CITATION), growth condition and endogenous hormone levels may affect the nek6 phenotype and effects of microtubule inhibitors. Because of the association of NEK6 with microtubules and irregular cortical microtubules in ibo1-1, we hypothesized that NEK6 might phosphorylate MAPs and/or microtubules themselves. To examine this possibility, protein fractions that contained MAPs and microtubules (MAPs fractions) were purified from Arabidopsis suspension cells and fractionated on an anion-exchange column. Each fraction was then subjected to an in vitro kinase assay with or without the recombinant GST-NEK6 protein. Phosphorylation of a protein band (approximately 50 kDa) was significantly enhanced with the addition of GST-NEK6 (Figure S4). This protein band was analyzed by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF-MS) analysis, which showed that the protein band was a mixture of α-tubulin and β-tubulin (Table S2). To examine whether NEK6 could phosphorylate tubulin, we incubated purified Arabidopsis tubulin with or without GST-NEK6 in the presence of γ32P-ATP. GST-NEK6 significantly phosphorylated purified tubulin (Figure 4a). Next, we incubated recombinant His-tagged β-tubulin 4 (TUB4) or β-tubulin 6 (TUB6) with or without GST-NEK6 in the presence of γ32P-ATP; both TUB4 and TUB6 were strongly phosphorylated by GST-NEK6 (Figure 4b,c). The phosphorylated TUB4 and TUB6 were completely dephosphorylated by the incubation with λ protein phosphatase (λPP), and the dephosphorylation by λPP was overcome by the addition of phosphatase inhibitors (Figure 4d). These results demonstrated that β-tubulin is a bona fide NEK6 substrate. [[FIGURE]] To identify proteins that interact with NEK6, a yeast two-hybrid screen was conducted using full-length NEK6 as the bait. Three NEK genes, including NEK6, NEK4, and NEK5, were repeatedly isolated from 11 positive colonies (Table S3). Fragments of NEK6, NEK4, and NEK5 cDNA were recovered from the yeast and found to be truncated at the 5′ end. These cDNAs encoded C-terminal regions that contained coiled-coil domains. These proteins bound to NEK6 and induced the ADE2, HIS3, MEL1, and AUR1-C reporter genes in yeast cells (Figure 5a), suggesting that NEK6 interacts with NEK4, NEK5, and itself through their C-terminal regions. [[FIGURE]] Next, we analyzed the interaction of NEK4 with NEK5, NEK6, and itself in a yeast two-hybrid assay. The NEK4 construct was used as bait and transformed into yeast cells together with the prey vectors. As shown in Figure 5(b), NEK4 interacted with NEK6 and itself but not with NEK5. To confirm the interaction of NEK6 with NEK4 and NEK5 in plant cells, the NEK6 C-terminal tail immediately following the kinase domain (from Q263 to S956) was fused with GFP at the N terminus (GFP-NEK6C) and co-expressed with hemagglutinin (HA)-tagged C-terminal tail immediately following the kinase domain of NEK4 or NEK5 [HA-NEK4C (from Q259 to V555) and HA-NEK5C (from Q269 to I427)] in the leaves of Nicotiana benthamiana. The protein complex containing GFP-NEK6C was immunoprecipitated using anti-GFP antibody. Both HA-NEK4C and HA-NEK5C were co-immunoprecipitated with GFP-NEK6C (Figure 5c), indicating the interaction of NEK6 with NEK4 and NEK5 in planta. It has been previously shown that the ibo1-3 mutation, in which a conserved Pro residue at amino acid position 916 in the plant NEK C-terminal (PNC) motif is substituted by Thr, induced ectopic outgrowth in epidermal cells, a loss-of-function phenotype of NEK6 (CITATION; Figure 3). Because the C-terminal region is required for the dimerization of NEKs (CITATION; CITATION), we investigated the effect of the ibo1-3 mutation (NEK6P916T) on the interaction of NEK6 with NEK4 and NEK5 in a yeast two-hybrid assay. The ibo1-3 mutation was introduced into the NEK6 construct used as the bait and transformed into yeast cells together with the prey vectors. As shown in Figure 5(d), the ibo1-3 mutation markedly reduced the interaction between NEK6 and NEK4, whereas ibo1-3 increased the interaction of NEK6 with NEK5 in yeast cells. However, the dimerization of NEK6 was not affected by the ibo1-3 mutation (Figure 5d). These results suggest that the NEK6–NEK4 interaction might be required for NEK6 function, and the ibo1-3 mutation could alter the affinity of NEK6 for NEK4 and NEK5. To address the subcellular localization of NEKs, NEK proteins tagged with GFP at the N-terminus were transiently expressed in the leaves of N. benthamiana under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. GFP-tagged NEK1, NEK2, NEK3, NEK5, and NEK7 localized to microtubules in a similar manner as GFP-NEK6 (Figure 6a). In contrast, GFP-NEK4 mainly accumulated in the cytoplasm (Figure 6a). Co-expression of GFP-NEK proteins with NEK6 tagged with red fluorescent protein (RFP) at the N-terminus (RFP-NEK6) demonstrated that all of the GFP-NEKs co-localized with RFP-NEK6 in a punctate filamentous pattern (Figure 6b). Interestingly, GFP-NEK4 exhibited a marked accumulation in punctate structures with RFP-NEK6. These results implied that NEK6 co-localizes with other NEK members and regulates the localization of NEK4. [[FIGURE]] Based on the co-localization and interaction of NEK6 with NEK4 and NEK5, NEK6 might function with NEK4 and NEK5 in the regulation of cell expansion and morphogenesis. To test the genetic interaction of NEK6 with NEK4 and NEK5, we analyzed phenotypes of T-DNA insertion mutants of NEK4 and NEK5 and their double mutants with ibo1. We identified nek4-1 and nek5-1 mutants in Salk T-DNA insertion lines and generated the ibo1 nek4 and ibo1 nek5 double mutants. The nek4-1 and nek5-1 mutants did not express mRNA for NEK4 and NEK5, respectively (Figure S5). These single mutants had no obvious morphological phenotype. The ibo1-2 nek4-1 and ibo1-3 nek4-1 double mutants exhibited fewer protuberances in epidermal cells of hypocotyls and petioles than the ibo1-2 and ibo1-3 single mutants, respectively (Figure 7a,b). In the ibo1-2 nek5-1 double mutant, fewer protuberances were formed in epidermal cells than in the ibo1-2 single mutant (Figure 7a,b). The suppressive effect of nek5-1 on the ibo1-2 phenotype was slightly weaker than that of nek4-1 (Figure 7a,b). On the other hand, the nek2-1 ibo1-4, nek3-1 ibo1-4, and nek7-1 ibo1-4 double mutants were almost identical to the ibo1-4 single mutant (Figure 7c,d). We could not isolate ibo1-4 nek4-1 and ibo1-4 nek5-1 double mutants for some unknown reason. These results suggested that ectopic outgrowth in ibo1 is dependent on NEK4 and NEK5. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The ibo1 mutant alleles (CITATION) were described previously. The nek2-1 (SALK-012284), nek3-1 (SALK-056986), nek4-1 (SALK-002004), nek5-1 (SALK-104825), and nek7-1 (SALK-134382) mutants were identified from the SALK T-DNA insertion line collection (http://signal.salk.edu) and provided from the Arabidopsis Biological Resouce Center (ABRC). The GFP-TUB6 line (CITATION; CITATION) was crossed with the ibo1 mutants. Seedlings were grown at 22°C on a modified Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium [half-strength MS salts supplied with Gamborg B5 vitamins and 1% sucrose buffered with 0.5 g L−1 (N-morpholino)ethanesulfonic acid to pH 5.7 and solidified with 1% agar] or on the soil either in constant white light or in a 16-h light/8-h dark cycle of white light. Taxol, oryzalin, and propyzamide were dissolved in dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) and adjusted so that the final concentration of DMSO in each medium was <0.1%. The NEK6 genomic region, including a 2104-bp region upstream of the initiation codon and the NEK6 coding region without the stop codon, was amplified from Columbia genomic DNA by PCR using the primers NEK6-F1 and NEK6-R1 (Table S4) and subcloned into pENTR-D-TOPO (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com/). This entry vector was used in the Gateway LR reaction (Invitrogen) with the Gateway binary vectors pGWB3 and pGWB4 (CITATION) to generate NEK6pro:NEK6-GUS and NEK6pro:NEK6-GFP constructs, respectively. The full-length NEK1, NEK2, NEK3, NEK4, NEK5, NEK6, and NEK7 were amplified by RT-PCR from total RNA of Columbia using the primer pairs described in Table S4 and cloned into pENTR-D-TOPO. These entry vectors were used in the LR reaction with the Gateway binary vector pGWB6 (CITATION) to generate CaMV35S:GFP-NEK constructs. The full-length NEK6 was also transferred from pENTR into the Gateway binary vector pGWB550 (CITATION) for a CaMV35S:RFP-NEK6 construct. To generate an entry clone containing the NEK4 C-terminal region (from Q259 to V555), the sequence encoding the N-terminal kinase domain of NEK4 was deleted from pENTR-NEK4 using a KOD mutagenesis kit (Toyobo, http://www.toyobo.co.jp/e/) with the primers NEK4-F2C and ENTR-R (Table S4). The pENTR-NEK5 C-terminal region (from Q269 to I427) and pENTR-NEK6 C-terminal region (from Q263 to S956) were created by the same method using the primers NEK5-F2C and NEK6-F2C, respectively. The sequence of the C-terminal region of NEK4 and NEK5 was transferred from pENTR to the Gateway binary vector pGWB515 (CITATION) in order to generate 35S:HA-NEK4C and 35S:HA-NEK5C constructs, respectively. The sequence of the C-terminal region of NEK6 was transferred from pENTR to the Gateway binary vector pGWB6 (CITATION) to generate the 35S:GFP-NEK6C construct. These binary vectors were introduced into the Agrobacterium tumefaciens MP90 strain and used for the transformation of Arabidopsis plants by the floral dip method (CITATION) and transient expression in leaves of N. benthamiana by agroinfiltration (CITATION). Samples of GUS lines were stained as described (CITATION) and observed under a differential-interference microscope (Leica DM5000 B, http://www.leica-microsystems.com/). The GFP lines were observed using a spinning-disk confocal microscope (Olympus IX71, http://www.olympus.co.jp) equipped with a CSU10 scanning unit (Yokogawa, http://www.yokogawa.co.jp), a C1 ECLIPSE 80i confocal laser-scanning microscope (Nikon, http://www.nikon.co.jp), or a fluorescent microscope (Leica DM5000 B). Indirect immunofluorescence staining was performed to visualize microtubules and NEK6-GFP in 4-day-old NEK6pro:NEK6-GFP seedlings according to CITATION. Rat monoclonal anti-α-tubulin antibody YL1/2 (Abcam, http://www.abcam.com/) and mouse monoclonal anti-GFP antibody (Roche, http://roche-biochem.jp) were used as primary antibodies at the dilution of 1/100. Tetramethyl rhodamine isothiocyanate-conjugated anti-rat-IgG antibody and Fluorescein isothiocyanate-conjugated anti-mouse-IgG antibody (Sigma-Aldrich, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/) were used as secondary antibodies at a dilution of 1/250. Epidermal cells in hypocotyls and roots were observed with a C1 ECLIPSE 80i confocal laser-scanning microscope (Nikon). Epidermal cells of hypocotyls of 4-day-old light-grown seedlings expressing GFP-TUB6 were analyzed by a spinning-disk confocal microscope (Olympus IX70 equipped with a CSU21 scanning unit). Images were taken every 2 sec during the course of 4 min and were analyzed using Image J version 1.43 (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij) with plug-ins according to CITATION and CITATION. Microtubule-associated proteins and tubulin were isolated from an Arabidopsis cell suspension culture as previously described (CITATION). The MAPs and tubulin were fractionated with a HiTrap Q column (GE healthcare, http://www.gehealthcare.com/) with a linear gradient of NaCl (from 0.3 to 0.6 m) and subsequently desalted with a dialysis membrane (Millipore, http://www.millipore.com/). The GST-tagged NEK6 protein was expressed in Escherichia coli and purified as previously described (CITATION). The cDNAs encoding the full-length TUB4 and TUB6 cloned into pENTR223 were obtained from ABRC (CITATION) and transferred to pDEST17 by LR reaction to generate 6 × His-tagged TUB4 and TUB6 constructs. Each construct was transformed into E. coli strain KRX (Promega, http://www.promega.co.jp). Recombinant proteins were induced by the addition of 0.2 mm isopropyl 1-thio-β-galactopyranoside and 0.1% rhamnose and further incubated at 20°C for 16 h. The His-tagged tubulin was purified with TALON metal affinity resin (Clontech, http://www.clontech.com/). One microgram of substrates (MAPs fractions, purified tubulin, and recombinant tubulin) were incubated with or without 1 μg GST-NEK6 in 20 μλ of kinase buffer [50 mm 2-amino-2-(hydroxymethyl)-1,3-propanediol (TRIS)–HCl pH 7.4, 10 mm MnCl2, 1 mm dithiothreitol, 50 μl ATP and 10 μCi [γ-32P]ATP] at 24°C for 30 min. For treatment with phosphatase and phosphatase inhibitors, 100 U λPP (New England Biolabs, http://www.neb.com/) and/or phosphatase inhibitor cocktail (PhosSTOP, Roche) were added with λPP buffer (New England Biolabs) to the samples after in vitro kinase reaction and then samples were incubated for 20 min at 30°C. Reaction products were separated by SDS-PAGE and stained with Coomassie Brilliant Blue (CBB) R250. Phosphorylated proteins were detected with image analyzers (BAS-2500 and FLA-7000 IP, Fujifilm, http://fujifilm.jp) and imaging plates (BAS-MS2040, Fujifilm). In vitro microtubule co-sedimentation assay was performed according to CITATION. The band corresponding to tubulin (approximately 50 kDa) was subjected to the in-gel trypsin digestion and MALDI-TOF-MS analysis on an AXIMA-CFR Plus (Shimazu, http://www.shimadzu.co.jp) according to CITATION. Yeast two-hybrid assays were conducted using the Matchmaker Gold Yeast Two-Hybrid System (Clontech) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The NEK6 full-length coding region was cloned into the pGBKT7 vector using the In-Fusion system (Clontech) to create the NEK6 construct, in which NEK6 was fused with the GAL4 DNA-binding domain at the N-terminus. The full-length NEK4 coding region was also cloned into the pGBKT7 vector using the In-Fusion system (Clontech). The pGBKT7-NEK6P916T (ibo1-3) was generated from pGBKT7-NEK6 by using the KOD mutagenesis kit (Toyobo) with primers NEK6-F-P916T and NEK6-R-Q915. The cDNA library in the pAD-GAL4 vector previously described in CITATION was introduced into the yeast strain Y2H Gold that carried pGBKT7-NEK6. The positive clones were selected on the basis of the activation of four marker genes, HIS3, ADE2, MEL1, and AUR1-C. For immunoprecipitation, N. benthamiana leaves were agroinfiltrated and subjected to immunoprecipitation according to CITATION. Isolation of total RNA and cDNA synthesis were conducted according to Motose et al. (2008, 2009). The NEK4 and NEK5 cDNA were amplified by PCR using NEK4- and NEK5-specific primers; NEK4-RT-F1 and NEK4-RT-R1 for NEK4; NEK5-RT-F1 and NEK5-RT-R1 for NEK5 (Table S4). EF1a was used as a control (CITATION).
