!~ABS~! In plants, green fluorescent protein (GFP) is routinely used to determine the subcellular location of fusion proteins. Here, we show that confocal imaging can be employed to approximate the number of GFP-labeled protein molecules present in living Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) root cells. The technique involves calibration with soluble GFP to provide a usable protein concentration range within the confocal volume of the microscope. As a proof of principle, we quantified the Brassinosteroid Insensitive1 (BRI1) receptor fused to GFP, under control of its own promoter. The number of BRI1-GFP molecules per root epidermal cell ranges from 22,000 in the meristem and 130,000 in the elongation zone to 80,000 in the maturation zone, indicating that up to 6-fold differences in BRI1 receptor content exist. In contrast, when taking into account differences in cell size, BRI1-GFP receptor density in the plasma membrane is kept constant at 12 receptors μm−2 in all cells throughout the meristem and elongation zone. Only the quiescent center and columella cells deviate from this pattern and have 5 to 6 receptors μm−2. Remarkably, root cell sensitivity toward brassinosteroids appears to coincide with uniform meristem receptor density.
!~RES~! To determine the number of BRI1-GFP molecules per cell by confocal microscopy, the pBRI1::BRI1-GFP line described by CITATION was employed. This line (referred to here as BRI1-GFP line 1) contains an equal amount of the BRI1-GFP protein when compared to endogenous BRI1 protein and shows only a mild overexpression phenotype. Root meristem epidermal cells located between three and 10 cells from the quiescent center (QC) were chosen as an example (Fig. 1A). This was based on size uniformity, average expression level, location close to the root surface, and a small vacuole that enables determination of PM and intracellular fluorescence separately. Measurements at the PM were performed at anticlinal cell walls because the periclinal walls are always shared with another cell type. [[FIGURE]] The initial approach was to record z-stack images using Nyquist sampling. However, while these images provide spatial information, it resulted in incremental lower fluorescence intensity due to bleaching (Supplemental Fig. S1), thus rendering it unsuitable for quantification purposes. Instead, two-dimensional confocal images were acquired using only a single scan of roots expressing BRI1-GFP, which minimized signal loss due to bleaching. As can been seen in Figure 1, BRI1-GFP localizes at the PM as well as in the cytoplasm. The region of interest (ROI) from which the fluorescence intensity at the PM is derived is 1.1 μm. This equals the full width of the Gaussian fit of the fluorescence intensity over the anticlinal cell wall (Fig. 1D) and the two adjacent PMs. However, this area includes signals from the PM and from intracellular membrane compartments, presumably from the early endosome/trans-Golgi network or the endoplasmic reticulum in close proximity to the PM (CITATION). The theoretically calculated width of the cell wall and two PMs as it appears in the microscope (CITATION; Supplemental File S1) is 790 nm, which confirms that in the analyzed area the majority of fluorescence intensity measured is PM derived (Fig. 1D). To approximate the contribution of intracellular membrane compartments to the fluorescence intensity measured in the Gaussian fit over the PMs, the ratio between fluorescence intensity at the PM (Fig. 1B) and in the cytoplasm (Fig. 1C) was determined. The nucleus and the vacuole were not taken into account in the measurements. Assuming a uniform distribution of BRI1-GFP-containing vesicles in the cytoplasm (Fig. 1C), ratio imaging showed that 38% ± 1% (n = 50 roots, 150 cells) of the fluorescence intensity originates from intracellular membrane compartments (see Supplemental File S1 for calculations). In each measurement, the ratio between the fluorescence intensity observed in the ROI at the PM and in the cytoplasm was taken into account to correct for the contribution of intracellular membrane compartments to the fluorescence intensity assigned to the PM. A calibration curve consisting of free GFP in solution was generated to correlate with fluorescence intensity in a confocal volume (Fig. 2A). Assuming an equal fluorescence intensity between free GFP in solution and in the cytoplasm, the concentration in the analyzed ROI and subsequently the receptor density could be calculated (Eq. 1; Supplemental File S1). Since the fluorescence intensities are derived from a two-dimensional confocal image, we refer to the measured GFP concentration as an apparent concentration (Vapp). Taking into account that the imaged area consists of two PMs and vesicles in close proximity of the PM, the BRI1-GFP receptor density in root meristem epidermal cells was calculated to be 12 ± 1 receptors μm−2 PM. This corresponds to 9,000 BRI1-GFP receptors per cell in the PM. A similar approach was applied to calculate the number of BRI1-GFP receptors in intracellular compartments, only in this instance, the fluorescence intensity measurements in the cytoplasm (Fig. 1C) were used as the starting point (see Supplemental File S1 for calculations). The volume of the cytoplasm was calculated by subtracting the volume of the nucleus (CITATION) and vacuole (CITATION) from the volume of the entire cell. Results show that in root meristem epidermal cells, there are 12,800 BRI1-GFP receptors localized in intracellular compartments in addition to the 9,000 receptors present in the PM, resulting in a total of approximately 22,000 BRI1-GFP molecules per cell. [[FIGURE]] Equation 1 for the calculation of the BRI1 receptor density is as follows:in which RBRI1 is the number of BRI1-GFP receptors at the PM, Vapp is the apparent volume in μm3, Capp is the apparent concentration in μm3, BRI1Cyto is the percentage of cytoplasm-localized BRI1-GFP in the ROI, and NA is Avogadro’s constant. To ensure that the quantitative fluorescence imaging method as described above is capable of distinguishing cells expressing different amounts of receptors, several approaches were employed. For comparative purposes, receptor density at the PM was used rather than the total amount of receptors present to rule out differences due to changes in subcellular distribution. First, the number of BRI1-GFP molecules was determined in root meristem epidermal cells of another BRI1-GFP line (referred to here as BRI1-GFP line 2) in which BRI1-GFP expression is significantly higher and showing an overexpression phenotype (CITATION; CITATION). Using quantitative confocal microscopy, the BRI1-GFP receptor density in root meristem epidermal cells of 5-d-old seedlings of BRI1-GFP line 2 is 34 ± 3 receptors μm−2, approximately 3 times higher than the BRI1-GFP line 1 (Fig. 2B). The difference in expression level was verified by quantitative western blotting (Supplemental Fig. S3). Next, the BRI1-GFP receptor density in root meristem epidermal cells of a T1 hemizygous line of BRI1-GFP line 1 was found to be half of the homozygous line (Fig. 2B). To test system independency, the number of BRI1-GFP receptors μm−2 PM was also determined in root meristem epidermal cells using two different confocal microscopes, a LSM510/Confocor 2 and a LSM510-META (both Carl Zeiss). The results obtained showed no significant differences in receptor values (Supplemental Fig. S4). Finally, the receptor density of SERK1-yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) and SERK3-GFP, corresponding to the two nonligand binding coreceptors of BRI1 (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), was determined in root meristem epidermal cells using pSERK1::SERK1-YFP and pSERK3::SERK3-GFP lines. For quantification of SERK1-YFP, a new calibration curve was generated, now using YFP instead of GFP. Quantitative confocal microscopy revealed that SERK1-YFP receptor density is 24 ± 2 receptors μm−2 and that of SERK3-GFP is 5 ± 1 receptors μm−2 (Fig. 2B). Gene expression studies (CITATION; CITATION) showed that SERK1 expression is indeed higher and SERK3 expression is lower compared to BRI1 in root meristem epidermal cells. Taken together, we conclude that the quantitative confocal microscopy method as described here faithfully reports changes in PM receptor density and is applicable to different receptors. The next step was to provide a receptor density map of BRI1-GFP in other cell types in the root meristem and the elongation and maturation zones (Fig. 3). Unfortunately, fluorescence intensities derived from GFP molecules present in more internally located cell types can be influenced by scattering and absorption effects. Therefore, fluorescence intensity measured in various cell types in the root meristem was compared with published gene expression data (CITATION; CITATION). The results indicate that there is a close correlation between gene expression and fluorescent protein concentration (Supplemental Fig. S5). Signal attenuation due to scattering and absorption apparently has a minor influence on our results. However, we have restricted our measurements to the upper cell layers not exceeding a distance of 45 to 50 μm from the cell surface. [[FIGURE]] In the root meristem, BRI1-GFP line 1 PM receptor density remains constant at about 12 receptors μm−2 in root epidermal, cortex, and endodermis cells (Table I) with a similar distribution between PM and intracellular compartments. In leaf epidermal cells, BRI1-GFP is present at about 10 receptors μm−2. In lateral root cap cells, BRI1-GFP density rises to about 16 receptors μm−2 but is significantly lower in columella and QC cells at 5 and 6 receptors μm−2, respectively. In contrast to the other cell types, the receptor density of the QC cells was recorded from their joined periclinal walls. This was corroborated by the intermediate receptor density observed in their anticlinal walls joined with those of the different stem cell populations just above the QC. These data show that adjacent membranes can differ at least 1.5- to 2-fold in receptor density. In the transition and elongation zone epidermal cells, receptor density remained constant at approximately 12 receptors μm−2. Only in the fully expanded epidermal cells in the maturation zone was a strong reduction of receptor density observed. In these cells, GFP fluorescence intensity is reduced to almost the level of the autofluorescence background (Table I). Therefore, receptor density could only be estimated to be about 2 receptors μm−2 with a correspondingly large sd. However, due to their 6-fold increase in size (Table II), the total number of receptors per epidermal cell remains higher (130,000 to 80,000) than in the meristem. This is confirmed by semiquantitative western-blot analysis indicating that the amount of BRI1-GFP is slightly higher in the maturation zone when compared to the meristem (Supplemental Fig. S3C). Measured cell length and width of various cells in a 5-d-old Col-0 seedling. To obtain an independent estimate of the number of BRI1-GFP molecules per root, quantitative immunological detection of GFP in total root protein extracts from the BRI1-GFP line 1 was employed. The results show that roots of 5-d-old Arabidopsis seedlings contain 2.1 ± 0.8 pmol g−1 fresh weight BRI1-GFP (Fig. 4). To estimate the number of BRI1-GFP receptors per root from quantitative confocal microscopy, several approximations were made; a 5-d-old root when cut just below the hypocotyl has a fresh weight of 0.18 ± 0.04 mg, and each cut root has 9,300 ± 2,000 cells (Supplemental Table S3). The number of cells in the root of a 5-d-old seedling was calculated using published data (Supplemental Tables S1 and S2) as well as measurements described in this article (Table I). Details concerning the calculations can be found in “Materials and Methods” and in Supplemental Files S2 and S3. The total number of cells in each of the different cell types shown in Table II, and the estimated number of receptors per cell was then calculated and predicts that a 5-d-old BRI1-GFP line 1 root contains 3.8 ± 1.8 pmol g−1 of BRI1-GFP (Supplemental Files S2 and S3). This value is about 2-fold higher than the value of 2.1 ± 0.8 pmol g−1 as determined by western blotting. The difference is likely due to the uncertainty in estimating the amount of BRI-GFP in the maturation zone and in internal cell layers. However, we conclude that both numbers are close enough to validate the use of quantitative confocal microscopy as described here. [[FIGURE]] In root epidermal cells BRI1 receptor density is maintained at a constant level from the meristem up to the maturation zone (Fig. 5; Table I). To elucidate whether maintenance of BRI1 receptor density may have functional significance, it is required to know which root cells respond to BL. Two recent studies reveal that cells in the root meristem are primarily responsible for the observed inhibitory effects of BL and overexpression of the BRI1 receptor (CITATION; CITATION). There is a clear reduction in the number of meristem cells by approximately 40% after treatment of wild-type roots to 4 nm BL, while root growth is reduced by about 30% in a BRI1 overexpression line (CITATION), identical to the BRI1-GFP line 2 used here. Under the conditions employed in our work, the same reduction in meristem cell number and in root growth reduction was observed (Supplemental Fig. S6). The direct target cells of BL signaling were identified as belonging to the stem cell niche, including the QC, affecting both division rate and elongation (CITATION) and extending into the elongation zone primarily affecting cell expansion (CITATION). Interestingly, the second study points to the same epidermal cells we used here as example cells for BRI1-GFP quantification (Fig. 1A) as the ones that are responsible for regulating the entire effect of BRI1-mediated signaling in root meristems. Remarkably, the BRI1 receptor density, rather than the total number of receptors per cell, is kept constant in all cells identified as direct targets of BL signaling in the meristematic zone of the root in both independent studies (Fig. 5; Table I). At present, no experimental strategy in plants is available to independently change BRI1-GFP receptor density while leaving the total number of active receptors and the cell size unaltered. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) plants (ecotype Columbia-0 [Col-0]) were used throughout as the wild type. Col-0 plants expressing BRI1 (AT4G39400) fused to GFP under its own promoter, here referred to as BRI1-GFP line 1, were provided by N. Geldner (CITATION). The higher BRI1-GFP expressor line, here referred to as BRI1-GFP line 2, was provided by J. Chory (CITATION). Seeds were surface sterilized and germinated on half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium (Duchefa) supplemented with 1% Suc (Sigma-Aldrich), 0.1% MES (Sigma-Aldrich), and 0.8% agar. For western-blotting experiments, the Murashige and Skoog medium was supplemented with 1.2% agar. The seedlings were grown vertically under fluorescent light at 22°C, with 16-h-light/8-h-dark photoperiods. Genotyping was performed by PCR using the following primer combination: forward (5′-AGCACGCAAAACTGCGGATTAGCGA-3′)/reverse (5′-TTTGATGCCGTTCTTTTGCTTGTC-3′). The pSERK1::SERK1-YFP line (SERK1; AT1G71830) was in the rescued serk1serk2serk3 triple mutant background. Genotyping of the line was done using the following primer combinations: forward (5′-CGTGACAACAGCAGTCCGTGGCACCATCGG-3′)/reverse (5′-CCGGACACGCTGAACTTG-3′) for the SERK1-YFP insert, serk1 forward (5′-GCTGCTCCTGCAATAGCCTTTGCTTGGTGG-3′)/reverse (5′-CCCTTTTAATCGAACCATAGCAC-3′), serk2 forward (5′-CGGCTAGTAACTGGGCCGCATAGATCC-3′)/reverse (5′-GGTGATGCACTGCACAGTTTGAGAGC-3′), and serk3 forward (5′-GCACTGAAAAACAGTTTAGC3′)/reverse (5′-GATGCAGGAAGGGGAGTCAACTTGGTG3′) for the mutant background. The serk2-2 (SAIL no. 119-G03) T-DNA-tagged allele was identified in the Syngenta Arabidopsis Insertion Library. serk1-1 (SALK_044330), serk3-1 (SALK_034523), and bak1-3 (CITATION; CITATION) were obtained from the Signal Collection at the Salk Institute (CITATION). The pSERK3::SERK3-GFP line (SERK3; AT4G33430) was in Col-0 background, and genotyping of the line was done using the following primer combination: forward (5′-AGCTGATGGTACTTTAGTGG-3′)/reverse (5′-TTTGATGCCGTTCTTTTGCTTGTC-3′). Except when noted in the text, all plants used for quantitative microscopy were homozygous for the inserted transgenes. The enhanced GFP (eGFP) was cloned into a pTYB expression vector (CITATION), after which the eGFP protein was purified according to the manufacturer’s protocol (New England Biolabs). The eGFP and enhanced YFP concentrations were determined by measuring the absorption at 488 and 514 nm, respectively. For calculations of the GFP concentration using the absorption measurements at 488 nm, a molar extinction coefficient of 55,000 m−1cm−1 was used (CITATION). For calculations of the YFP concentration, a molar extinction coefficient of 84,000 m−1 cm−1 was used (CITATION). The concentration and purity of the stock solution confirmed by Coomassie Brilliant Blue staining after SDS-PAGE electrophoresis using a range from 0.75 to 9 μg bovine serum albumin (BSA; Pierce) as reference compound (Supplemental Fig. S7). For the GFP or YFP standard curve, dilutions of GFP or YFP were made in a PBS solution of pH 7.2, which is similar to the pH in the cytoplasm (CITATION). Two hundred microliters of different dilutions of GFP were transferred to 96-well plates (Whatman) with borosilicate bottom. To prevent adherence of the fluorophore to the glass plate, each well was precoated with BSA (Sigma-Aldrich) by incubation for 10 min with 10 mg mL−1 BSA followed by three washes with PBS (pH 7.2). Roots of 5-d-old Arabidopsis seedlings expressing BRI1-GFP were imaged with a CONFOCOR2/LSM510 and LSM 510-META confocal microscopes (Zeiss) equipped with a 40× water objective (numerical aperture of 1.2) and an argon ion laser. The argon laser was used for excitation of GFP and YFP at 488 and 514 nm, respectively, and a helium/neon laser was used to excite FM4-64 at 543 nm. GFP fluorescence emission was detected with a band-pass filter at 505 to 550 nm, while YFP fluorescence was filtered with a 530- to 600-nm band-pass filter. FM4-64 fluorescence was detected with a band-pass filter of 600 to 650 nm. The optical slices were acquired in confocal mode (1 Airy unit) with an average of four scans. The pinhole diameter was adjusted to a slice thickness of approximately 0.9 μm. All z-stacks were generated using a slice thickness of approximately 0.45 μm, thereby fulfilling Nyquist sampling criteria. For each confocal system used, the linear range of the detector and the effect of bleaching were evaluated (Supplemental Fig. S2). Bleaching of GFP and YFP can occur upon long exposure time or high-intensity laser power. To limit bleaching effects, all images used for quantification were taken within 45 s from the moment the root was exposed to the laser. The mean pixel intensity in the cytoplasmic area and at the PM was measured separately using ImagePro Plus software (MediaCybernetics). A low-pass filter (pass 1; strength 2) was used to lower the background noise in the images. All fluorescence intensities measured were corrected for autofluorescence by subtracting the fluorescence intensity measured in wild-type lines in the corresponding tissue and cell type. In order to correlate the fluorescence intensity in the root tissue with the GFP calibration curve, the confocal settings and data analysis were kept the same for all images obtained during an experiment. The same protocol was followed to quantify SERK1-YFP, only in that case YFP instead of GFP was used to generate the calibration curve. Each quantitative imaging session was accompanied by a parallel calibration curve to avoid differences due to experimental conditions. To obtain a protein extract, roots of 5-d-old seedlings were ground in liquid nitrogen and thawed in extraction buffer containing 50 mm Tris, pH 7.5, 150 mm NaCl, 1% Triton X-100, and a protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche), after which the samples were incubated on ice for 30 min. The extraction buffer was added in a 1:1 (w/v) ratio based on the weight of the ground material. The extract was centrifuged at 4°C for 10 min at 200g (MSE Micro Centaur). The total protein concentration in the extract was determined using a BSA protein assay (Pierce). The proteins in the extract were denaturated by boiling for 5 min in sample buffer containing 60 mm Tris/HCl, pH 6.8, 2% (w/v) SDS, 10% (w/v) glycerol, 0.2% bromophenol blue, and 20% (v/v) β-mercaptoethanol. The GFP reference was boiled in the same denaturation solution. Subsequently, 100, 50, and 25 ng of total protein and a range from 0.1 to 0.8 ng of GFP reference standard was loaded on a 10% SDS-polyacrylamide gel and transferred to a polyvinylidene difluoride membrane (Millipore) by wet electroblotting (Mini-Protean II system; Bio-Rad). The BRI1-GFP and GFP references were probed using anti-GFP-HRP antibody (Miltenyi Biotec). Horseradish peroxidase was detected using the ECL plus detection kit (GE Healthcare) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The surface area and intensity of each band were determined using ImagePro Plus software. Only scans for which the intensity fell within the linear part of the calibration curve were used. To determine the fresh weight, roots of 5-d-old seedlings were cut just below the hypocotyls and weighed on a microbalance (Sartorius microbalance) immediately after cutting to prevent drying out of the roots. For each measurement (n = 5), at least 15 roots were used Cell sizes were measured in the meristem, elongation zone, and maturation zone of 5-d-old Arabidopsis seedlings (Col-0) using images obtained by confocal microscopy (CONFOCOR2/LSM510) and a Nomarski light microscope (Leica) using a 40× and a 20× objective, respectively (Supplemental Fig. S8). For confocal microscopy, roots were stained for 5 min with 0.02 mm FM464 (Invitrogen), rinsed, and mounted in deionized water. To approximate the average thickness and size of the cells, z-stack images of the roots with a maximum slice thickness of 1 μm were acquired. To visualize roots using the Nomarski light microscope, samples were mounted in chloral hydrate solution containing 1 m chloralhydrate and 25% (v/v) glycerol. All cell sizes were measured using ImagePro Plus software. The number of cells in the cross section (CITATION; CITATION), the number of cells in the transition zone and elongation zone (CITATION), and the number of primordial cells (CITATION; CITATION) have been determined previously (Supplemental Tables S1 and S2). The number of cells in the meristem was determined here. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers NM_120100 (BRI1), NM_001203975 (SERK3/BAK1), and NM_105841 (SERK1). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Bleaching occurs during z-stack imaging. Supplemental Figure S2. Calibration of the LSM510 confocal microscope. Supplemental Figure S3. Semiquantitative western blotting of BRI1-GFP line 2. Supplemental Figure S4. BRI1-GFP quantification using two different confocal microscope systems. Supplemental Figure S5. Relative amounts of fluorescence intensities compared to gene expression data. Supplemental Figure S6. BRI1 overexpression in Arabidopsis roots. Supplemental Figure S7. Confirmation of the concentration of the GFP stock. Supplemental Figure S8. Cell size measurements in 5-d-old seedling roots. Supplemental Table S1. Number of cells in the cross section of a 5-d-old Arabidopsis seedling. Supplemental Table S2. Number of cells in the longitudinal section. Supplemental Table S3. Number of cells per root. Supplemental File S1. Calculation of the BRI1 receptor density and the number per cell. Supplemental File S2. Calculation of the number of cells and amount of BRI1-GFP per root. Supplemental File S3. Estimation of the BRI1 concentration in pmol g−1.
