!~ABS~! The actin cytoskeleton plays a crucial role in many aspects of plant cell development. During male gametophyte development, the actin arrays are conspicuously remodeled both during pollen maturation in the anther and after pollen hydration on the receptive stigma and pollen tube elongation. Remodeling of actin arrays results from the highly orchestrated activities of numerous actin binding proteins (ABPs). A key player in actin remodeling is the actin depolymerizing factor (ADF), which increases actin filament treadmilling rates. We prepared fluorescent protein fusions of two Arabidopsis pollen-specific ADFs, ADF7 and ADF10. We monitored the expression and subcellular localization of these proteins during male gametophyte development, pollen germination and pollen tube growth. ADF7 and ADF10 were differentially expressed with the ADF7 signal appearing in the microspore stage and that of ADF10 only during the polarized microspore stage. ADF7 was associated with the microspore nucleus and the vegetative nucleus of the mature grain during less metabolically active stages, but in germinating pollen grains and elongating pollen tubes, it was associated with the subapical actin fringe. On the other hand, ADF10 was associated with filamentous actin in the developing gametophyte, in particular with the arrays surrounding the apertures of the mature pollen grain. In the shank of elongating pollen tubes, ADF10 was associated with thick actin cables. We propose possible specific functions of these two ADFs based on their differences in expression and localization.
!~RES~! Transcriptomic and proteomic data have shown that in Arabidopsis, ADF7 and ADF10 seem to be expressed specifically in pollen (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). ADF7 and ADF10 share 94% similarity in their amino acid sequences when using NCBI blast (CITATION). ADF7 shares between 77% and 92% similarity with the other members of the Arabidopsis ADF family members while for ADF10 this similarity is somewhat lower with 74–90%. ADF7 and ADF10 share >90% similarity in their amino acid sequence with the other two members of the subclass 2 ADFs, i.e. ADF8 and ADF11. A prediction search for possible nuclear export signals using the NetNES 1.1 server of the Technical University of Denmark (CITATION) yielded a positive peak at amino acid 21 for both ADFs with a 0.592 score for ADF10 and a 0.743 score for ADF7. In order to visualize ADF7 and ADF10, we transformed A. thaliana with chimeric ADF7 and ADF10 genes tagged with the genes for CFP and YFP, respectively, under the control of their respective native promoter and terminator sequences. To assess the expression pattern of the fusion proteins in the transformed plants, we examined CFP and YFP expression in roots, root hairs, stems, leaves, trichomes and all flower organs. With the exception of the male gametophyte, we did not observe any fluorescence above the background level in any of these organs. This confirms that Arabidopsis ADF7 and ADF10, when expressed as fluorescent protein chimeras under the control of their own promoters, are indeed pollen specific. To assert that the chimeric genes were not significantly overexpressed in the mutants, we assessed their expression in the inflorescence using semi-quantitative RT–PCR. The presence of both chimeric genes caused slightly reduced expression of the respective native genes. Expression of ADF7–CFP was at a similar level (albeit slightly higher) than the endogene and expression of ADF10–YFP was significantly lower than that of the respective endogene (Supplementary Fig. S1). To determine the subcellular localization of ADF7 and ADF10 during the development of the male gametophyte, we harvested different stages of pollen from transformed Arabidopsis plants and observed them by confocal microscopy. The developmental stages were annotated based on the description of gametophyte morphology by Twell and coworkers (CITATION). In order to visualize the nuclei, pollen grains were also stained with 4'-6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) prior to observation. ADF7–CFP expression appeared for the first time during the early microspore stage just after tetrad separation. Prior to this stage no significant label was visible in the developing gametophyte (not shown). After tetrad separation, ADF7–CFP-labeled microspores displayed diffuse fluorescence in the cytoplasm and slightly more intense label in the nucleus (Fig. 1A). At this stage, ADF10–YFP expression was not yet visible (not shown). At the polarized microspore stage, ADF7–CFP was still present in the nucleus (Fig. 1B) and ADF10–YFP started to appear in short, rod-shaped aggregates in the cytoplasm (Fig. 2A). Just before the bicellular stage, ADF7–CFP disappeared from the nucleus and diffusely labeled the cytoplasm (Fig. 1C), while ADF10–YFP was associated with longer filamentous structures in the cytoplasm (Fig. 2B). At the bicellular stage, some ADF7–CFP accumulated around the vegetative nucleus and slightly denser aggregates started appearing in the periphery of the cytoplasm (Fig. 1D). At this developmental stage, ADF10–YFP appeared to be associated with longer filamentous structures, a portion of which was aggregated around the vegetative nucleus but most were concentrated at the periphery of the cell (Fig. 2C). At the mature pollen stage, short filamentous elements labeled for ADF7–CFP were present around the vegetative nucleus while longer and more densely packed filaments dominated the periphery of the cytoplasm, which also contained diffuse CFP fluorescence (Fig. 1E). ADF10–YFP at this stage displayed a very similar localization to that in the bicellular stage with filamentous structures around the vegetative nucleus and a dense mesh of filaments mostly at the periphery of the cytoplasm (Fig. 2D). Just before anthesis, ADF7–CFP formed a dense mesh of long filaments in the periphery of the cytoplasm and diffuse fluorescence was present throughout the cytoplasm and in the vegetative nucleus (Fig. 1F). Label intensity was higher at the apertures. Before anthesis, ADF10–YFP on the other hand more specifically targeted filamentous structures in the periphery of the cytoplasm with very little diffuse label and no fluorescence in the nucleus (Fig. 2E). In pollen from open flowers, ADF7–CFP labeled the vegetative nucleus and was present as a dense filamentous mesh in the periphery with high concentration at the apertures (Fig. 1F). ADF10–YFP label assumed the shape of longer and thicker filaments located at the apertures and oriented parallel to their long axes (Fig. 2F). Optical sections and surface rendering demonstrated that the label was located in the periphery of the cytoplasm (Fig. 3) and it was not detectable in the central regions of the cytoplasm.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To identify the filamentous structures associated to which ADF7 and ADF10 label was observed, we labeled mature pollen expressing ADF7–CFP and ADF10–YFP from open flowers with rhodamine–phalloidin following chemical fixation (Fig. 4A, B, G, H). The spatial configuration of the filamentous structures labeled for the ADF and for actin were near identical. Surprisingly, the filamentous structures labeled for ADF7 were frequently longer than the corresponding structures labeled with phalloidin (Fig. 3G, H). A possible explanation may be that ADF7–CFP sterically blocks potential phalloidin binding sites on the actin filaments. Moreover, it has been shown that ADF-saturated actin filaments lose their phalloidin binding sites due to changes in the actin filament twist (CITATION, CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In order to further confirm the nature of the filamentous structures labeled with ADF7 and ADF10, we administered LatB to pollen grains. LatB is a toxin isolated from the red sea sponge Latrunculia magnifica that sequesters G-actin leading to F-actin depolymerization due to the ongoing disassembly at the minus ends of the filaments (CITATION). Following LatB treatment, the filamentous structures labeled with phalloidin disappeared partly or entirely (Fig. 4E, K). Similarly, label for ADF7 and ADF10 lost its filamentous configuration (Fig. 4D, J). Any remaining filamentous structures coincided with structures labeled by phalloidin (Fig. 4D, E, J, K). Diffuse fluorescence of ADF7 in the cytoplasm was strongly enhanced as a result of the LatB treatment (Fig. 4D). Interestingly, after treatment of pollen from dehiscent flowers with LatB, ADF10–YFP was associated with the vegetative nucleus (Fig. 4D). Actin arrays are typically highly dynamic. In order to assess whether the ADF-labeled structures behaved similarly, we acquired time-lapse series of hydrated pollen grains from open flowers of ADF7–CFP and ADF10–YFP mutants. The structures labeled with CFP and YFP were highly dynamic (Supplementary videos 1, Supplementary Data), as would be consistent with the behavior of actin filaments. Pollen germination requires the delivery of secretory vesicles to the aperture (CITATION, CITATION) and the actin cytoskeleton is known to form characteristic arrays prior to and during germination (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). In order to assess whether ADF7 or ADF10 is involved in the remodeling of the actin cytoskeleton prior to and during pollen germination, we placed mature pollen in germination medium for 1 h before observation. When the pollen grain started germinating, the filamentous elements labeled by ADF7–CFP disappeared from the grain and appeared associated with long filamentous cables seemingly winding around the tip of the newly emerging tube (Fig. 5A). In newly developed pollen tubes (<60 µm), filaments labeled with ADF7–CFP were associated with the tip of the tube and a significant amount of diffuse label was visible in the shank of the cell (Fig. 5B) and in the pollen grain. In older pollen tubes (>60 µm), ADF7–CFP targeted long filamentous cables in the subapical region of the tube and throughout the shank region (Fig. 5C).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In germinating pollen grains expressing ADF10–YFP, fluorescence was confined to the periphery of the emerging pollen tube (Fig. 6A). Once the tube had almost attained a length that corresponded to the diameter of the grain, most of the label was found inside the tube and almost no label was left in the grain. The label was associated with longer filamentous structures that were densely packed (Fig. 6B) and could be observed to form loops (Fig. 6C). Compared with ADF7–CFP, the number of individual filaments labeled by ADF10–YFP seemed much higher and their arrangement denser (compare Fig. 4A with Fig. 5B). As the tube continued to grow, the fluorescence label for ADF10–YFP became more concentrated in the subapex where it formed shorter filaments (Fig. 6D). Pollen grains with longer tubes displayed a few, thick cables that continued from the grain into the tube (Fig. 6E, F). Less pronounced but clearly visible label was associated with the subapical fringe in longer-tube pollen tube (Fig. 6G, H). To confirm the nature of the filamentous structure in the pollen tubes, ADF10–YFP-expressing pollen tubes were fixed and labeled for actin with rhodamine–phalloidin. The label patterns for YFP and rhodamine fluorescence were identical (Fig. 7) confirming that ADF is associated with the actin cytoskeleton.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! To reproduce the expression level and pattern of the target gene, the construct included the 5' untranslated region (UTR) and promoter sequences (about 1000 bp), the coding region with introns, and the 3' UTR and the terminator region. To minimize further effects of the fluorescent tag on native subcellular localization and function of the chimeric protein, the location of the tag relative to the target gene was determined based on computer-assisted predictions of protein folding and functional domains. Arabidopsis plants expressing ADF7 (At4g25590) and ADF10 (At5g52360) were generated using the FTFLP technique (CITATION). Two sets of primers, P1–P2 and P3–P4, were designed to amplify each of the target genes in two fragments. P1 and P4 contained attB1 and attB2 recombination sites respectively in addition to gene-specific sequences. P2 and P3 contained gene-specific sequences and fluorescent tag-specific sequences. ADF7 was labeled with the cyan variant of the yellow fluorescent protein (CFP) while ADF10 was labeled with YFP. Both tags contained a glycine-rich linker peptide at the N-terminal side and an alanine rich linker peptide at the C-terminal region to reduce interference with protein folding (CITATION). ADF7 primer sequences: P1, 5' gctcgatccacctaggctatcgctgaaacgaggaacagaaag 3'; P2, 5' cacagctccacctccacctccaggccggcccactgccatccccgacgc 3'; P3, 5' tgctggtgctgctgcggccgctggggccgaggacgagtgcaagctgaag 3' and P4, 5' cgtagcgagaccacaggatcctttctaatgtgcgttgtggtt 3'. ADF10 primer sequences: P1, 5'-gctcgatccacctaggctcaatctgtttgcgctttcttttatt-3'; P2, 5'-cacagctccacctccacctccaggccggcccaccgccatccccgacgc-3'; P3, 5’-tgctggtgctgctgcggccgctggggccgaggacgagtgtaagctgaag-3' and P4, 5'-cgtagcgagaccacaggacgaaagtgagctattacacgagaa-3'. The fluorescent tag was combined with the two PCR fragments using a triple template PCR with a forward primer containing the attB1 site 5'-ggggacaagtttgtacaaaaaagcaggctgctcgatccacctaggct-3' and a reverse primer containing the attB2 site 5'-ggggaccactttgtacaagaaagctgggtcgtagcgagaccacagga-3'. Individual PCR fragments were amplified using Phusion (Finnzymes) DNA polymerase and the triple template PCR was performed using ExTaq (TaKaRa) DNA polymerase. DNA was extracted from gel using QIAquick (Qiagen) gel extraction kit. Final PCR fragments were introduced into pDONR Zeo (Invitrogen) entry vector using a BP (Invitrogen) recombination reaction according to the industrial manual. Sequencing was used to verify the positive clones. The chimeric gene was introduced into pBIN-GW (CITATION) destination vector using LR (Invitrogen) recombination reaction according to the manufacturer's manual. Plasmid extraction from bacteria was done with QIAprep spin (Qiagen) miniprep kit. A. thaliana Col-0 plants were grown in soil at 22–20°C day/night temperatures, at 60% relative humidity in growth chambers with 16 h light/8 h dark light cycle. For pollen tube growth in vitro, pollen was collected from flowers at anthesis. Germination was conducted in Arabidopsis pollen tube growth medium for 5 h as described in CITATION). For microspore collection at different stages of development, flowers were dissected under a stereomicroscope and only gametophytes from long anthers were mounted for observation. After 5 h of growth, Arabidopsis pollen tubes were chemically fixed for 40 s in the microwave oven (PELCO Cold Spot® Biowave 34700) under 150 W in 3% formaldehyde, 0.5% glutaraldehyde and 0.05% Triton X-100 solution in a buffer composed of 100 mM PIPES, 5 mM MgSO4 and 0.5 mM CaCl2 at pH 9. Pollen tubes were then washed three times for 1 min each in the same buffer then incubated overnight at 4°C in rhodamine–phalloidin (Molecular Probes) in a buffer composed of 100 mM PIPES, 5 mM MgSO4, 0.5 mM CaCl2 and 10 mM EGTA at pH 7. Next day, pollen was washed five times for 1 min each in the same buffer. All washing steps were conducted in the microwave at 150 W. Pollen was then mounted on glass slides in a drop of Citifluor (Electron Microscopy Sciences), covered with a cover slip, sealed and immediately observed in the microscope. DNA was labeled by placing the gametophytes in 1 µg/ml DAPI solution in Arabidopsis pollen medium. For LatB treatment, pollen was incubated in Arabidopsis medium containing 100 nM LatB before fixation and actin labeling. Arabidopsis gametophytes from lines expressing the fluorescent proteins were observed in a Zeiss Imager-Z1® microscope equipped for structured illumination microscopy (Apotome) and with a Zeiss AxioCam MRm camera. A filter set of BP 450–490 excitation, FT 510 beamsplitter and BP 515–565 emission was used. For confocal imaging, a Zeiss LSM 510 META/LSM 5 LIVE/Axiovert 200M system confocal microscope was used. A 488 nm argon laser was used for YFP and 458 nm for CFP excitation. For surface rendering and to show a view from inside the pollen grain, the upper half of the Z-stack was used to produce a 3D reconstruction of half a grain using the inside 4D function of AxioVision 4.8 (Zeiss) software. Total RNA was extracted from Arabidopsis flowers (wild type, ADF7–CFP and ADF10–YFP) using Trizol reagent (Invitrogen). Five micrograms were used to synthesize cDNA using the SuperScript® III First-Strand Synthesis SuperMix (Invitrogen). ADF7 and ADF10 endogenes were amplified using as a forward primer: 5'-GAACGCGGCGTCGGGGATG-3' and as reverse primers: 5'-GAGCTTGCATACACCATCTTC-3' and 5'-GAGCTCGCATACACCATCTTC-3', respectively. In order to amplify only the transgene, the corresponding forward primer was chosen on the fluorescent protein: 5'-CACTACCTGAGCACCCAGT-3' and 5'-GCAGCGTGCAGCTCGCCGAC-3' for ADF7–CFP and ADF10–YFP, respectively. Amplified fragments were obtained from 25 cycles using 58°C for annealing and 45 s of elongation time. A total of 5 µl of each reaction was loaded on a preparative 1% (w/v) agarose gel stained with ethidium bromide and band intensity on the photographs was quantified using ImageJ software (http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/). The endogene expression levels in the transgenic lines were used as a reference value for expression after normalization based on the actin expression profile.
