!~ABS~! In plants, the mevalonic acid (MVA) pathway provides precursors for the formation of triterpenes, sesquiterpenes, phytosterols and primary metabolites important for cell integrity. Here, we have cloned the cDNA encoding enzymes catalysing the final three steps of the MVA pathway from Madagascar periwinkle (Catharanthus roseus), mevalonate kinase (MVK), 5-phosphomevalonate kinase (PMK) and mevalonate 5-diphosphate decarboxylase (MVD). These cDNA were shown to functionally complement MVA pathway deletion mutants in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Transient transformations of C. roseus cells with yellow fluorescent protein (YFP)-fused constructs reveal that PMK and MVD are localised to the peroxisomes, while MVK was cytosolic. These compartmentalisation results were confirmed using the Arabidopsis thaliana MVK, PMK and MVD sequences fused to YFP. Based on these observations and the arguments raised here we conclude that the final steps of the plant MVA pathway are localised to the peroxisome.
!~RES~! Until now, the C. roseus cDNA sequences encoding MVK, PMK and MVD have not been isolated and characterised. Thus, partial cDNA encoding MVA pathway candidate genes were isolated from C. roseus cDNA using degenerate primers as described in Supplementary methods. The sequences of the 5′ and 3′ extremities were determined by 3′RACE-PCR and GenomeWalker. The full-length cDNA sequences were named CrMVK (Catharanthus roseus mevalonate kinase), CrPMK (Catharanthus roseus 5-phosphomevalonate kinase) and CrMVD (Catharanthus roseus mevalonate 5-diphosphate decarboxylase). The CrMVK cDNA encoded a protein of 387 amino acids in length with a calculated mass of 41.0 kDa. CrMVK possesses strong similarity with MVKs from dicotyledons such as Hevea brasiliensis (77% identity) and A. thaliana (67% identity). The similarity with MVKs from monocotyledons such as Oryza sativa and Zea mays is lower, 59 and 56% identity, respectively. Furthermore, CrMVK possesses 47% identity with the ortholog present in the moss Physcomitrella patens subsp. patens and 27% identity with the yeast (S. cerevisiae) MVK and 37% identity with the human (Homo sapiens) and rat (Rattus norvegicus) MVKs. The CrPMK cDNA encoded a protein of 498 amino acids in length with a calculated mass of 53.9 kDa. As with CrMVK, CrPMK possesses strong similarity with orthologs from H. brasiliensis (74% identity) and A. thaliana (72% identity). The protein also shows lower similarity with orthologs from maize (63% identity), rice (65% identity), P. patens (51% identity) and from S. cerevisiae (28% identity). However, plant PMKs are very different from mammalian PMKs and cannot be considered orthologs. The CrMVD cDNA encoded a protein of 421 amino acids in length with a calculated mass of 46.6 kDa. In plants several isoforms of MVD exists, including two in A. thaliana. CrMVD has 80% identity with AtMVD2 (At3g54250) and 77% identity with AtMVD1 (At2g38700). CrMVD has strong similarity with orthologs from H. brasiliensis (83% identity), maize (74% identity), rice (73% identity) and P. patens (63% identity). Finally, lower similarities are observed with yeast MVD (46% identity with the ortholog from S. cerevisiae) and the mammalian MVDs (47% identity with the ortholog from human and rat). The similarity of the deduced amino acid sequence of the three identified cDNAs with the amino acid sequences from the plant orthologs of the MVA pathway can be seen in Supplementary Fig. S1, S2 and S3. Yeast complementation method was previously used to characterise several cDNAs from the mevalonate pathway. First, Riou et al. (CITATION) functionally characterised MVK from A. thaliana and Cordier et al. (CITATION) characterised the A. thaliana AtMVD1. More recently, the same technique was used to functionally characterise AACT, HMGS and PMK from H. brasiliensis (Sando et al. CITATION).  It is now well characterised that, in the yeast S. cerevisiae, the MVA pathway remains the unique source of the IPP precursor for the biosynthesis of ergosterol, an essential fungal terpenoid. Gene disruption of enzymes involved in MVA branch is thus lethal in yeast. As a consequence, a complementation assay was performed using a haploid strain lacking a single allele of each target gene to validate the function of the cloned C. roseus cDNAs. In this study, we used the full-length coding sequences of CrMVK, CrPMK and CrMVD. It remains unknown at this time if the enzymes of the MVA pathway in yeast are peroxisomal. However, it should be noted that the MVK, PMK and MVD of S. cerevisiae contain PTS2-related nonapeptides (Table 1).[[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] Diploid heterozygous S. cerevisiae colonies carrying MVA-plasmids or empty-vector-pYES2 were plated onto sporulation medium and haploid colonies were recovered. No haploid cells harbouring both the disrupted allele and the empty control plasmid pYES2 were obtained suggesting that the empty pYES2 is unable to complement the Saccharomyces erg12Δ (mvk), erg8Δ (pmk) or mvd1Δ (mvd) disrupted alleles. A yeast strain carrying both erg12Δ (mvk) disrupted allele and the plasmid pYES2-CrMVK [Sc (erg12Δ) + pYES2-CrMVK] could grow on YPG (galactose-containing medium) expression medium, but not on the non-expression medium YPD (dextrose-containing medium) (Fig. 2). This indicated the CrMVK had mevalonate kinase activity and could complement the erg12Δ (mvk) disrupted allele. [[FIGURE]]  The activities of CrPMK and CrMVD were determined in the same way. A yeast strain carrying both erg8Δ (pmk) disrupted allele and plasmid pYES2-CrPMK [Sc (erg8Δ) + pYES2-CrPMK] and a yeast strain carrying both mvd1Δ (mvd) disrupted allele and plasmid pYES2-CrMVD [Sc (mvd1Δ) + pYES2-CrMVD] could grow on YPG medium, but not on YPD medium (Fig. 2), showing that these two C. roseus cDNAs were able to complement their respective S. cerevisiae alleles. Moreover, all haploid transformed strains harbouring both a wild-type allele and the plasmid-borne C. roseus cDNA [Sc (ERG12) + pYES2-CrMVK; Sc (ERG8) + pYES2-CrPMK and Sc (MVD1) + pYES2-CrMVD] were able to grow on both YPG and YPD medium (Fig. 2). Finally, haploid transformed cells were plated onto FOA-containing medium to test the ability of each strain to lose their plasmid. None of the haploid disrupted strains harbouring the plasmid-borne C. roseus cDNA [Sc (erg12Δ) + pYES2-CrMVK; Sc (erg8Δ) + pYES2-CrPMK and Sc (mvd1Δ) + pYES2-CrMVD] could grow on a FOA-containing medium, confirming that these strains were not able to lose their plasmid (Fig. 2). In contrast, all haploid transformed strains harbouring both a wild-type allele and the plasmid-borne C. roseus cDNA [Sc (ERG12) + pYES2-CrMVK; Sc (ERG8) + pYES2-CrPMK and Sc (MVD1) + pYES2-CrMVD] were able to grow on FOA containing medium (presence of a wild-type Saccharomyces allele) confirming that they were able to lose their plasmid. All these results clearly indicate that CrMVK, CrPMK and CrMVD display MVK, PMK and MVD activity, respectively. The deduced amino acid sequences of CrMVK and AtMVK (A. thaliana MVK) were analysed for the existence of PTS1 and PTS2 motifs. The N-terminus of CrMVK and of AtMVK was shown to contain the sequence KIILAGEHA which conforms to the PTS2 consensus sequence (R/K)(L/V/I)X5(H/Q)(L/A) (Table 1). CrMVK and AtMVK were cloned into pSCA-cassette YFPi vector to create MVK-YFP and YFP-MVK contructs. In vivo localisation of CrMVK and AtMVK was determined through a biolistic-mediated transient expression of YFP-fused protein in C. roseus cells according to Guirimand et al. (CITATION). In transiently transformed cells, CrMVK-YFP and YFP-CrMVK showed a diffuse pattern of fluorescence coinciding perfectly with the fluorescence signal of the cytosolic CFP-GUS marker (Fig. 3a–c, e–g, respectively) arguing thus for a cytosolic localisation. Similarly, AtMVK-YFP and YFP-AtMVK were also exclusively localised in the cytosol (Fig. 3i–k, m–o, respectively). [[FIGURE]]  It has previously been postulated that the human PMK is predominantly localised in the peroxisome (Olivier et al. CITATION). This peroxisomal targeting is dependent on the presence of a PTS1 located at the C-terminal end of mammalian PMKs. On the contrary, no such PTS1 could be found within the amino acid sequences of CrPMK or AtPMK (A. thaliana PMK) as well as no PTS2 consensus sequences. However, the PTS2-related nonapeptide DVK(L/V)TSPQ(L/M) was identified in several plant PMKs including CrPMK and AtPMK (Table 1; Supplementary Fig. S2), although its role in peroxisomal targeting has yet to be determined. This prompted us to engage the study of the subcellular localisation of both CrPMK and AtPMK. In C. roseus cells, the YFP-CrPMK fusion protein showed a diffuse pattern of fluorescence characteristic of the cytosol as revealed by the merging with the fluorescence signal of the cytosolic CFP-GUS marker (Fig. 4a–c). [[FIGURE]]  However, in the opposite orientation, leaving the CrPMK N-terminal end accessible, CrPMK-YFP displayed a punctuated fluorescence pattern, which perfectly co-localised with the fluorescence pattern of the peroxisomal marker (Fig. 4e–g). Peroxisomes appear as round or elongated particles distributed randomly in the cytoplasm (Schrader and Fahimi CITATION). The peroxisomal localisation of CrPMK was confirmed using AtPMK-YFP which was also shown to co-localise with the peroxisomal marker (Fig. 4i–k). These results indicate that the CrPMK and AtPMK proteins contain a putative PTS2 that could mediate their targeting to peroxisomes. The N-terminal end of numerous plant MVDs also contains a PTS2-related nonapeptide (SVTLDPXHL), which can be found in CrMVD and in the two A. thaliana MVD isoforms AtMVD1 (At2g38700) and AtMVD2 (At3g54250) (Table 1; Supplementary Fig. S3). This nine amino-acid sequence is similar to the amino-acid motif SVTLHQDQL previously identified in the mammalian MVD and required to target the protein to peroxisomes (Olivier et al. CITATION). As a consequence, we have also investigated the subcellular localisation of CrMVD and AtMVD1 in C. roseus cells. The fusion protein engaging the N-terminal end of MVD displayed a cytosolic fluorescence signal (Fig. 5a–c) whilst the fusion proteins CrMVD-YFP and AtMVD-YFP which leave the N-terminal extremity accessible showed a punctuate fluorescence distribution superimposable over that of the peroxisomal marker (Fig. 5e–g, i–k, respectively). These results reveal that CrMVD and AtMVD1 are also targeted to peroxisomes. [[FIGURE]]  It should be noted that a diffuse pattern of fluorescence is also apparent in Figs. 4e, i, 5e, i, suggesting that a portion of the PMK-YFP and MVD-YFP fusion proteins remained in the cytosol. Similar observations could be made for the localisation of the short version of the Arabidopsis IDI2 enzyme since transfected tobacco protoplasts display a strong punctuate peroxisomal pattern and a weakly diffuse pattern that could be associated with the cytosol (Sapir-Mir et al. CITATION).
!~MM~! Total RNA was extracted from Catharanthus roseus [L.] G. Don, Pacifica pink (botanical garden of Tours) and Arabidopsis thaliana L. Col-0 (seeds from Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre, UK) leaf samples using the NucleoSpin® RNA Plant Kit (Macherey–Nagel). The cDNAs were synthesised from total RNA using the oligo-dT primer AP according to the protocol in the Superscript II Reverse Transcriptase kit (Invitrogen). A detailed description of the MVA pathway cDNA sequences isolation is provided online as Supplementary methods and the primers used in the protocol are described in Supplementary Table S1. Database searches for similar protein sequences were performed by using NCBI’s BLAST network service. Protein sequence alignment was performed using ClustalW from the Mac Vector program (Oxford Molecular Ltd, UK). The full-length coding sequences of the C. roseus MVK, PMK and MVD cDNAs have been deposited at NCBI under Genbank accession numbers: HM462019 (CrMVK), HM462020 (CrPMK) and HM462021 (CrMVD).  MVK, PMK and MVD were cloned from either C. roseus or A. thaliana RT-generated cDNAs using primers described in Supplementary Table S2. Pfu PCR products were digested with NheI and cloned into the SpeI site of vector pSCA-cassette YFPi to make YFP-cDNA fusions or cloned into the NheI site of the same vector to make cDNA-YFP fusions (Guirimand et al. CITATION). Transient transformation of C. roseus cells by particle bombardment and YFP imaging were performed following the procedures described by Guirimand et al. (CITATION, CITATION). Briefly, C. roseus cells plated onto solid culture medium were bombarded with DNA-coated gold particles (1 μm) and 1,100 psi rupture disc at a stopping-screen-to-target distance of 6 cm, using the Bio-Rad PDS1000/He system. Cells were cultivated during 15 to 48 h, and the protein subcellular localisation was determined using an Olympus BX-51 epifluorescence microscope equipped with an Olympus DP-71 digital camera. The pattern of localisation presented in this work is representative of ca. 100 observed cells. Two organelle markers were used for co-transformation studies: the “peroxisome”-CFP (CD3-977) marker obtained from the ABRC (http://arabidopsis.org) and the cytosolic CFP-GUS marker described in Guirimand et al. (CITATION). The “peroxisome”-CFP marker has been obtained by addition of a PTS1 (SKL) at the C-termini of CFP, allowing in turn an efficient peroxisomal targeting (Nelson et al. CITATION). The full-length coding sequences of the periwinkle MVK, PMK and MVD cDNAs were recovered by RT-PCR. The cDNAs were amplified with PfuTurbo DNA polymerase (Stratagene) and the primers shown in Supplementary Table S2. A cDNA of 1,164 bp was recovered by PCR using the pair of primers MVKf and MVKr. The resulting amplicon was digested with HindIII and XbaI and cloned into the corresponding restriction sites of plasmid pYES2 (Invitrogen) to make the plasmid pYES2-CrMVK. PCR with primers PMKf and PMKr generated the 1,580-bp amplicon of periwinkle PMK which was digested with SacI and BamHI and cloned into the corresponding restriction sites of plasmid pYES2 to make the plasmid pYES2-CrPMK. The 1,260-bp fragment of periwinkle MVD was recovered by PCR using primers MVDf and MVDr. The amplicon was digested with HindIII and XbaI and cloned into the corresponding restriction sites of plasmid pYES2 to make the plasmid pYES2-CrMVD. Yeast Magic Marker strains were obtained from Thermo Scientific ABgene (Epsom, UK). All strains used in this study are listed in Supplementary Table S3. Yeast transformation was performed as follows: The equivalent of ten yeast colonies from YMR208W, YMR220W and YNR043W heterozygous diploid strains were recovered with a pipette tips from a 24-h-grown YPD (1% yeast extract, 2% peptone, 2% dextrose, 2% agar) plate and suspended in 100 μL PALD (45% polyethylene glycol 4,000, 100 mM lithium acetate, 50 mM DTT). Plasmid DNA (1–10 μg in 1–10 μL of sterile water) was added and mixed vigorously. After heat-shock (30 min, 42°C), cells were directly plated on YCS selective medium (0.67% Yeast Nitrogen Base with ammonium sulphate and without amino acids; 0.08% SC-Ura; 2% dextrose; 2% agar) and incubated at 30°C for 3 days. Plasmid-transformed heterozygous diploid strains [Sc (erg12Δ/ERG12) + pYES2-CrMVK; Sc (erg8Δ/ERG8) + pYES2-CrPMK and Sc (mvd1Δ/MVD1) + pYES2-CrMVD] were allowed to sporulate by plating 109 cells onto ACK medium (1% potassium acetate, 0.25% yeast extract, 2% agar) at 28°C for 7 days. Haploid transformed cells harbouring both the disrupted allele and the plasmid-borne C. roseus MVA cDNA [Sc (erg12Δ) + pYES2-CrMVK; Sc (erg8Δ) + pYES2-CrPMK and Sc (mvd1Δ) + pYES2-CrMVD] were selected by plating the sporulated culture of heterozygous diploid pools on a modified galactose-containing magic medium (2% galactose, 0.67% Yeast Nitrogen Base with ammonium sulphate and without amino acids, 0.06% SC-Leu-His-Arg-Ura drop out mix, 200 μg/mL G418, 60 μg/mL canavanine, 2% agar) (Pan et al. CITATION) and incubated at 30°C for 3 days. Haploid transformant cells harbouring both wild-type allele and the plasmid-borne C. roseus MVA cDNA [Sc (ERG12) + pYES2-CrMVK; Sc (ERG8) + pYES2-CrPMK and Sc (MVD1) + pYES2-CrMVD] were selected by plating the sporulated culture of heterozygous diploid pools on a modified dextrose-containing magic medium (2% dextrose, 0.67% Yeast Nitrogen Base with ammonium sulphate and without amino acids, 0.06% SC-Leu-His-Arg-Ura drop out mix, 60 μg/mL canavanine, 2% agar) and incubated at 30°C for 3 days. The functional complementation was triggered by spotting 5 μL drops (104 cells) of each haploid transformant on YPD or YPG (1% yeast extract, 2% peptone, 2% galactose, 2% agar) and incubated at 30°C for 2 days. Plasmid loss ability was analysed by spotting 5-μL drops (104 cells) of each haploid transformant on 5-fluoroorotic acid (FOA)—containing plates (0.67% Yeast Nitrogen Base with ammonium sulphate and without amino acids; 0.08% SC-Ura; 2% galactose; 1 mg/mL FOA, 50 μg/mL uracil, 2% agar) and incubated at 30°C for 2 days.
