!~ABS~! The composition of the mitochondrial outer membrane is notoriously difficult to deduce by orthology to other organisms, and biochemical enrichments are inevitably contaminated with the closely associated inner mitochondrial membrane and endoplasmic reticulum. In order to identify novel proteins of the outer mitochondrial membrane in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), we integrated a quantitative mass spectrometry analysis of highly enriched and prefractionated samples with a number of confirmatory biochemical and cell biology approaches. This approach identified 42 proteins, 27 of which were novel, more than doubling the number of confirmed outer membrane proteins in plant mitochondria and suggesting novel functions for the plant outer mitochondrial membrane. The novel components identified included proteins that affected mitochondrial morphology and/or segregation, a protein that suggests the presence of bacterial type lipid A in the outer membrane, highly stress-inducible proteins, as well as proteins necessary for embryo development and several of unknown function. Additionally, proteins previously inferred via orthology to be present in other compartments, such as an NADH:cytochrome B5 reductase required for hydroxyl fatty acid accumulation in developing seeds, were shown to be located in the outer membrane. These results also revealed novel proteins, which may have evolved to fulfill plant-specific requirements of the mitochondrial outer membrane, and provide a basis for the future functional characterization of these proteins in the context of mitochondrial intracellular interaction.
!~RES~! In order to identify protein components of the mitochondrial outer membrane, we developed a workflow that used multiple lines of independent evidence to discover and confirm the subcellular localization of proteins on the mitochondrial outer membrane. The first aspect of this workflow was the selection of multiple, independent prefractionated samples for comparisons with enriched mitochondrial outer membranes in order to independently analyze the likely causes of contaminants (Fig. 1A). Furthermore, we sought a control for the protein composition of other mitochondrial membranes (IM), a control for the coenrichment of contaminating proteineous structures in the outer membrane isolation process (high-speed pellet-outer membrane [HSP-OM]), and a control for nonmembrane proteins associating with the outer membrane during the cell fraction procedures (mitoplasts). By comparing the abundance of the proteins present in each of these fractions (Fig. 1B), we were able, in effect, to subtract contaminants from the mitochondrial outer membrane fraction in a statistically rigorous fashion (Fig. 1C). It should be noted that the success or failure of this technique hinges not on the purity of the fractions analyzed but on the relative enrichment of sources of contamination in the prefractionated samples to levels greater than that observed in the mitochondrial outer membrane fraction. The result of these analyses was termed the putative outer mitochondrial membrane proteome. The putative subcellular/submitochondrial location for each of these proteins was then assessed by techniques independent of the fractionation procedure, including GFP tagging or in vitro mitochondrial protein import experiments. To rigorously define the outer mitochondrial membrane proteome, candidate proteins needed two independent pieces of evidence, such as enrichment in the outer membrane fraction as determined by mass spectrometry (MS), and confirmation by another independent approach, such as in vitro or in vivo targeting ability to the outer membrane or western-blot analysis (CITATION). The application of these criteria led to the identification of a stringent set of 42 proteins (Fig. 1C). [[FIGURE]] To enrich mitochondria from which outer membranes could be isolated, a two-stage separation of the organelle fraction of Arabidopsis protoplasts was carried out. This involved first obtaining a crude organelle fraction (referred to as the HSP) and then enriching mitochondria from this fraction, initially by density gradient centrifugation and subsequently by free-flow electrophoresis (FFE). The ability of FFE fractionation to separate mitochondria from other cellular contaminants, even those in close association with the mitochondria (such as the endoplasmic reticulum) on a basis independent of organelle density (i.e. surface charge) allows mitochondria to be enriched to a greater degree than single physical property isolation strategies (Fig. 2). The mitochondrial enrichment of each of these fractions was assessed by comparison of Coomassie blue staining profiles (Fig. 2A) and immunodetection (Fig. 2, B and C) of proteins found in mitochondria (TOM40), peroxisomes (3-Ketoacyl-Coenzyme A Thiolase [KAT2]), plastids (ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase, large subunit, and light-harvesting complex B [LhcB]), and the endoplasmic reticulum (Calnexin; Fig. 2). Coomassie blue staining of proteins separated by SDS-PAGE indicated that both the gradient-fractionated and FFE-fractionated samples were enriched in mitochondria compared with the starting material, the HSP (Fig. 2A). Image-based quantitation of band intensity following immunodetection confirmed this enrichment, as indicated by the presence of the outer membrane marker, TOM40-1, which was 2.5-fold higher following gradient fractionation and 3-fold higher after FFE (Fig. 2B). Levels of endoplasmic reticulum were assessed with an antibody raised to recombinant human Calreticulin (which primarily detects the membrane-bound form of this protein, Calnexin, in Arabidopsis, as evidenced by the size and solubility of the detected protein). These images indicated that endoplasmic reticulum levels were reduced 14-fold by gradient fractionation and more than 400-fold by the FFE process. Two major bands were detected in the HSP fraction (Fig. 2B) corresponding to the two Calnexin isoforms At5g07340.1 (61.4 kD) and At5g61790 (60.4 kD). Peroxisomal contamination, as indicated by the presence of KAT2, was reduced by 1.5-fold after gradient fractionation and 28-fold following FFE enrichment. Similarly, antibodies raised to the Rubisco large subunit showed a 4-fold reduction in chloroplast contamination after gradient purification and a 60-fold reduction following FFE (Fig. 2B). An additional membrane-bound plastid marker, LhcB, was readily detectable in enriched plastid samples and present in the HSP fraction but was undetectable in either of the mitochondria-enriched fractions (Fig. 2C). This high level of enrichment laid a firm foundation for the subsequent identification of extramitochondrial contaminants present in outer membrane fractions. [[FIGURE]] Mitochondria were then subfractionated in order to separate the inner and outer membranes. This process is perhaps the most problematic step in the enrichment of mitochondrial outer membrane, as the inner and outer membranes are physically linked by proteins such as TIM17-2 (CITATION). In order to separate them, mitochondria were placed in hypoosmotic solution, swelling the highly folded inner membrane to beyond the capacity of the unfolded outer membrane. This ruptures the outer membrane, which is then dissociated from the inner membrane by several gentle strokes with a Potter-Elvehjem homogenizer. The protein-rich, dense inner membranes are separated from the less dense outer membranes by sedimentation and subsequent flotation through Suc gradients. This membrane fractionation was performed on two samples, the first being FFE-enriched mitochondria, to yield enriched mitochondrial outer membrane (Mt OM), and the second being the crude organelle enrichment HSP, to yield a contaminated outer membrane fraction (HSP-OM). Additional prefractionated samples consisting predominantly of mitochondrial inner membranes (Mt IM) and mitochondrial inner membranes and matrix (mitoplast) were prepared to allow the identification of contaminants arising from these compartments. The composition of these samples was examined by immunodetection of proteins characteristic of the endoplasmic reticulum, plastids, and the mitochondrial inner membrane (Fig. 3). Coomassie Brilliant Blue staining of the separated fractions revealed differing protein profiles for each of the fractionated samples (Fig. 3A). Identification of several high-abundance bands on this gel by electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry (ESI-MS/MS) showed that the most abundant band in the mitochondrial outer membrane fraction consists of the previously identified mitochondrial outer membrane proteins, Voltage-Dependent Anion Channel1 (VDAC1), -2, -3, and -4. Identification of another high-abundance band present in the prefractionated samples but absent from the outer membrane fraction showed it to predominantly consist of a subunit of the β-subunit of ATP synthase, which is located on the inner mitochondrial membrane. Details of these identifications can be found in Supplemental Table S7. Immunodetection of the mitochondrial outer membrane marker TOM40 (At3g20000.1) in these same fractions (Fig. 3B) revealed strong enrichment of the outer membrane and corresponding depletion in the prefractionated samples. Detection of TOM40 in the mitoplast and inner membrane samples is a result of the incomplete separation of outer membrane from inner membrane during the homogenization process. Conversely, detection of the mitochondrial matrix marker Pyruvate Dehydrogenase subunit E1 (At1g01090.1), the mitochondrial inner membrane marker cytochrome c oxidase subunit 2 (COXII; AtMg00160.1), the endoplasmic reticulum membrane marker Calnexin, and the soluble peroxisome marker KAT2 revealed depletion of each of these contaminants in the outer membrane fraction and enrichment in at least one of the prefractionated samples. Detection of KAT2 in the mitoplast sample is a result of residual peroxisomal contamination of the mitochondrial enrichment procedure and can also be observed in Figure 2B. Owing to the enriched/unenriched sampling strategy used, this residual contamination is accounted for by the inclusion of HSP-OM, which is more enriched in peroxisomes and plastids than Mt OM (Fig. 2B); however, KAT2, being a soluble protein, is lost in the preparation of this membrane sample. Immunodetection of additional membrane-anchored proteins characteristic of the plastid outer envelope (TOC159; At4g02510.1) and peroxisomal membrane (PMP22; At4g04470.1) did not detect these proteins in any of the subfractionated samples. However the chloroplast membrane proteins TOC159 (data not shown) and LhcB (Fig. 2C) were detected in purified chloroplasts. [[FIGURE]] The first quantitative approach undertaken involved the counting of spectra that matched individual proteins in the purified outer membrane fraction. These counts were then compared with those observed in the prefractionated samples. The first of these comparisons was designed to eliminate membrane-associated contaminants arising from other organelles/membrane systems (Mt OM:HSP-OM). The second of these comparisons was designed to identify contaminants in the Mt OM fraction that arose from other mitochondrial compartments (Mt OM:Mt IM). These comparisons enabled a quantitative assessment of whether their constituent proteins were located on the outer mitochondrial membrane or elsewhere in the cell, allowing the assembly of a short list of likely outer membrane proteins. Each of the protein samples (Mt OM, Mt IM, and HSP-OM) was acetone precipitated, digested, and analyzed by ESI-MS/MS. A total of 751 unique Arabidopsis proteins were identified across three biological replicates of this set of samples. A false discovery rate for this data set was empirically determined by compiling the mass spectra from each of the ESI-MS/MS analyses and searching this file against a decoy (shuffled The Arabidopsis Information Resource [TAIR] 9 data set) database. These searches indicated a false discovery rate of 1.5% at the peptide level. Of the 751 proteins, 185 were identified in the outer membrane fraction (Mt OM) in more than one biological replicate (Supplemental Table S1). By modeling the numbers of spectra observed for each protein using Poisson regression, we found a total of 64 proteins that were enriched in the outer membrane fractions using the following criteria: must be detected in two or more biological replicates and have a P value of 0.13 or less for enrichment over both the HSP-OM and Mt IM samples when the spectra from all biological replicates are pooled (Supplemental Table S2). This P value was intentionally less stringent at this preliminary stage in order to maximize the ability of these analyses to discover putative mitochondrial outer membrane proteins, given that any unintentionally included contaminants would be removed in the subsequent experimental confirmation steps. The validity of this analysis was also investigated by GFP-targeting studies of several proteins falling on either side of this cutoff, which indicated that loosening the P value further would increase the number of contaminants without including more outer membrane proteins in the preliminary list (data not shown). Proteins that were only detected in the Mt OM samples, provided that they were present in more than one biological replicate, were also included on the basis that these were likely to be lower abundance mitochondrial outer membrane proteins, only detected following enrichment. This list of 64 proteins did not contain abundant mitochondrial inner membrane proteins such as the ADP/ATP carrier and was generally devoid of components of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. The 64 proteins encompassed 15 of the 17 proteins that have previously been shown to be located in the outer mitochondrial membrane in various studies in plants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Despite the difficulties inherent in working with plant cells, such as limited starting material, lysis complications due to the cell wall, and extra contamination arising from an additional organelle, the percentage of proteins in this preliminary list compares favorably with previously published outer mitochondrial membrane proteomes from nonplant species. We calculated 88% coverage of known outer membrane mitochondrial proteins in our preliminary data set versus 85% in S. cerevisiae (CITATION) and 67% in N. crassa (CITATION). This coverage was achieved with a pool of just 64 proteins versus 118 in S. cerevisiae. The two proteins that were not included in this preliminary set were TOM7 (At5g41685.1) and BIGYIN (At3g57090.1; an Arabidopsis ortholog of Fis1 in S. cerevisiae and mammals; CITATION). Additional lines of evidence were sought until each protein present in the 64-member putative outer membrane proteome had two independent lines of evidence to confirm this location or a single high-quality line of evidence to dispute its inclusion in this list. A summary of this information can be found in Tables I and II and Supplemental Table S3. Columns from left to right are as follows: AGI No., Arabidopsis Genome Initiative identifier (www.Arabidopsis.org); Description, common identifier; Raw Counts, tally of the total number of identifying ions summed from three biological replicates from the outer membrane sample followed by the HSP-OM and then the inner membrane sample; Ratio OM:HSP-OM, number of identifying ions identified in the outer membrane sample divided by the number found in the HSP-OM sample; P, P value applying to the magnitude of change (Supplemental Tables S3 and S4) as calculated using Poisson regression analysis; Ratio OM:IM, number of identifying ions identified in the outer membrane sample divided by the number found in the inner membrane sample; P, P value applying to the magnitude of change (Supplemental Tables S3 and S4) as calculated using Poisson regression analysis; iTRAQ, these three columns contain the ratios of reporter ions in IM/OM (inner membrane divided by outer membrane), Whole/OM (whole mitoplasts [mitochondria with outer membrane ruptured but inner membrane intact] divided by outer membrane HSP-OM/OM [HSP-OM divided by outer membrane]; values reported here are significant according to the criteria detailed in “Results”); GFP Location, interpretation of subcellular localization resulting from fluorescence microscopy (√MtOM refers to a sole mitochondrial outer membrane localization, while ÖMtOM++ refers to a localization on the mitochondrial outer membrane and other locations); Reference, references to previously published location information. A single protein, At5g05520.1 (SAM50-2), demonstrated enrichment in the mitochondrial outer membrane fractions but did not display specific targeting when tagged with GFP; it is included here due to evidence gathered from protease-treated mitochondria (Fig. 5). ∞ is used to indicate that the ratio cannot be calculated because a null value (0) was obtained and thus the P value cannot be calculated, as shown by ^. From the initial list of 64 proteins found to be enriched in the outer membrane sample, 22 were excluded from the outer membrane proteome by one or more lines of additional evidence. Columns from left to right are as follows: Location, the subcellular compartmentalization interpretation; AGI No., Arabidopsis Genome Initiative identifier (www.Arabidopsis.org); Description, common identifier; Raw Counts, tally of the total number of identifying ions summed from three biological replicates from the outer membrane sample followed by the HSP-OM and then the inner membrane sample; Ratio OM:HSP-OM, number of identifying ions identified in the outer membrane sample divided by the number found in the HSP-OM sample; P, P value applying to the magnitude of change (Supplemental Tables S1 and S2) as calculated using Poisson regression analysis; Ratio OM:IM, number of identifying ions identified in the outer membrane sample divided by the number found in the inner membrane sample; P, P value applying to the magnitude of change (Supplemental Tables S1 and S2) as calculated using Poisson regression analysis; iTRAQ, these three columns contain the ratios of reporter ions in IM/OM (inner membrane divided by outer membrane), Whole/OM (whole mitoplasts [mitochondria with outer membrane ruptured but inner membrane intact] divided by outer membrane HSP-OM/OM [HSP-OM divided by outer membrane]; values reported here are significant according to the criteria detailed in “Results”); GFP Location, interpretation of subcellular localization resulting from fluorescence microscopy; In Vitro Import Result, mitochondrial localization of tested proteins as determined by reliance on the presence of an inner membrane electrochemical gradient; Previous Published Location, location of previously studied proteins; Reference, references to previously published location information. The final protein in this table, At4g17140.2, was found to be abundant and strongly enriched in the mitochondrial outer membrane samples; however, confirmation of localization independent of the organelle fractionation was attempted but not obtained. ∞ is used to indicate that the ratio cannot be calculated because a null value (0) was obtained and thus the P value cannot be calculated, as shown by ^. Components of the TOM complex have been isolated previously from mitochondrial outer membrane preparations and identified by a variety of methods (CITATION; CITATION), contributing literature evidence for the TOM components TOM 40-1, 20-2, 20-3, 20-4, 9-1, 9-2, 5, and 6. Other members of the mitochondrial protein import apparatus, Metaxin (At2g19080.1) and OM64 (At5g09420.1), have previously been shown to be located in the outer mitochondrial membrane by GFP studies (CITATION; CITATION). Several members of the VDAC family, DGS1 (At5g12290.1) and ELM1 (At5g22350.1), have also been shown to be located in the mitochondrial outer membrane by GFP studies (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; Table I). A number of proteins present in the putative outer mitochondrial membrane proteome in this study have previously been reported to be in other subcellular locations. These proteins included TIM9 (At3g46560.1) and TIM13 (At1g61570.1), which have been previously reported to be soluble proteins of the mitochondrial intermembrane space (CITATION; CITATION). A variety of other proteins in the set of 64 are known to be proteins in the inner mitochondrial membrane: Ubiquinone cytochrome c oxidoreductase-like family protein (At3g52730.1) is a subunit of complex III (CITATION), F0-ATPase subunit 9 (AtMg01080.1) has been shown to be a member of complex V, and Frostbite1 (FRO1; At5g67590.1), unknown protein (At1g68680.1), and unknown protein (At4g16450.1) are subunits of complex I (CITATION). Isocitrate Dehydrogenase1 (IDH1; At4g35260.1) has also been shown to be present in the inner membrane/matrix fraction of mitochondria (CITATION; Table II). Initial inspection of the putative proteome indicated the presence of soluble contaminants arising from the mitochondrial matrix. IDH6 (At3g09810.1) and Aspartate Aminotransferase (ASP1; At2g30970.1; Table II) are two high-abundance matrix enzymes. We chose to address this source of contamination by conducting an additional quantitative proteomic study using isobaric tags. This study evaluated the abundance of proteins in four fractions: the same three as used in the spectral counting analysis with the addition of a sample composed chiefly of mitoplasts (i.e. mitochondrial matrix and inner membrane structures depleted in outer membrane). A ratio of 0.7 at P < 0.05 was selected as the cutoff on the basis that known outer membrane proteins were included, while known contaminants were excluded. The validity of this cutoff was confirmed by GFP localization of IDH6 (iTRAQ [for isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation] mitoplast:outer membrane ratio of 0.8, geometric sd of 1.176) and γ-aminobutyrate (GABA) aminotransferase (At3g22200.1; iTRAQ mitoplast:outer membrane ratio of 0.776, geometric sd of 1.185), two proteins that fell close to but outside the cutoff and were shown to localize to the mitochondria but not to the outer membrane (Supplemental Fig. S3, I and II). Thus, the iTRAQ analysis using these criteria contributed evidence for the removal of four proteins from the list of 64, namely ASP1, IDH6, GABA aminotransferase, and a putative NADH:cytochrome B5 reductase (At5g20080.1). These exclusions left a group of 38 proteins for which additional evidence was sought in the form of GFP localization. To accurately use this method, it was first established that GFP and fluorescence microscopy were capable of distinguishing mitochondrial inner membrane or matrix proteins from those located on the outer mitochondrial membrane (Fig. 4). For these purposes, an inner membrane protein, FRO1 (At5g67590.1; CITATION), a matrix protein, IDH6 (At3g09810.1; CITATION), and a previously characterized outer membrane protein, Elongated Mitochondria1 (ELM1; At5g22350.1; CITATION), fused to GFP, were transiently transformed into Arabidopsis cell culture along with a mitochondrial matrix-targeted red fluorescent protein control and observed using fluorescence microscopy (Fig. 4). A clear difference was observed between the fluorescence patterns of the control proteins located in the inner membrane-FRO1 (Fig. 4A) and matrix-IDH6 (Fig. 4B) and the outer membrane-ELM1 (Fig. 4C). The inner membrane- and matrix-located controls showed filled, green, circular fluorescence patterns, whereas the outer membrane control (ELM1) displayed green ring patterns. This ring pattern can also be observed for the unknown function At5g55610.1 (Fig. 4D), which was in the set of 38 and deemed to be a positive localization of the GFP fusion protein to the mitochondrial outer membrane. This is also consistent with previous reports using GFP tagging of mitochondrial outer membrane proteins (CITATION; CITATION). Similar ring structures corresponding to a mitochondrial outer membrane location were observed for 25 of the 38 proteins tested. Of these 25 proteins, 21 only displayed this pattern surrounding the red fluorescent protein control (Supplemental Fig. S1), indicating an exclusive mitochondrial outer membrane localization, while four of the tested proteins displayed fluorescence patterns consistent with localization to the mitochondrial outer membrane but also localized to other intracellular structures, which were apparently not mitochondrial in nature (Supplemental Fig. S2). GFP analysis of the remaining 12 proteins showed that seven of these did not localize to the mitochondria (Supplemental Fig. S4), two were seen to be mitochondrial but did not display the ring structure characteristic of outer membrane proteins (At5g15640.1 and At4g04180.1; Supplemental Fig. S3, III and IV), and three proteins failed to display any GFP-related fluorescence or were inconsistent from cell to cell. Images of all of the above fluorescence patterns can be viewed in Supplemental Figures S1 to S4. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The two mitochondria-localized proteins that did not display the ring structure (At5g15640.1 and At4g04180.1) were selected for in vitro protein uptake experiments. Both were seen to be protease protected when incubated with mitochondria under conditions that support protein uptake (Supplemental Fig. S3, III and IV). When valinomycin was added to the in vitro uptake assay, no protease protection was evident, indicating the requirement of membrane potential for import that is a feature of inner membrane or matrix localization (Supplemental Fig. S3, III and IV). Of the three proteins for which a consistent GFP localization could not be confirmed, two were deemed to be outer membrane proteins on the basis that other isoforms of the protein family had been investigated as part of this study and were found to be localized to the outer mitochondrial membrane. These proteins were SAM50-1 (At3g11070.1) and MIRO1 (At5g27540.1). The final protein, the unknown protein (At4g17140.2), was excluded, as no additional evidence was found for its localization beyond the quantitative MS data. The N- and C-terminal 200 amino acids of this large (471.2-kD) protein were fused to GFP but failed to show a consistent subcellular localization. Together, the MS, literature searches, and GFP analysis produced a final list of 42 plant outer membrane proteins, 27 of these being novel, doubling the number of confirmed outer membrane proteins in plant mitochondria and identifying all but two proteins that were previously known. In order to gain further localization confirmation for the three novel mitochondrial outer membrane proteins, 3-deoxy-manno-octulosonate cytidylyltransferase (KDSB; At1g53000.1), phosphorylethanolamine cytidylyltransferase (PECT1; At2g38670.1), and the sorting and assembly machinery protein SAM50 (At3g11070.1), polyclonal antibodies were raised following bacterial expression and purification of portions of these proteins. Isolated mitochondria were treated with increasing amounts of proteinase K. This treatment degrades portions of mitochondrial proteins that were accessible to the protease and preserved proteins that were protected by the lipid bilayer of the mitochondrial outer membrane. Treated mitochondria were separated by SDS-PAGE, and a number of proteins were immunodetected. TOM20-3 is a mitochondrial outer membrane protein that is exposed to the cytosol (CITATION; Fig. 5A). This protein is rapidly degraded at low concentrations of proteinase K. Examination of KDSB (Fig. 5B) revealed a similar breakdown profile, indicating that part of this protein is exposed to the cytosol in vivo and is likely to be located on the outer mitochondrial membrane. PECT1 (Fig. 5C) was also seen to be accessible to the proteinase. Orthologs of Arabidopsis SAM50 have been observed to be localized to the outer mitochondrial membrane in S. cerevisiae (CITATION). SAM50, like TOM40, is a transmembrane β-barrel protein descended from the bacterial ancestor protein OMP85 (CITATION), and it appears that these two proteins are not readily accessible to the externally applied proteinase (Fig. 5, D and E). At the two highest concentrations of proteinase, both of these proteins were seen to be partially broken down, whereas the Rieske Iron Sulfur Protein (RISP; Fig. 5F), which is located on the inner mitochondrial membrane, was resistant to digestion. This indicates that SAM50, in agreement with the other data presented here, is likely to be located on the outer mitochondrial membrane in Arabidopsis and that mitochondrial integrity was not compromised by the proteinase treatment. An unexpected outcome of using full-length coding sequences fused to GFP was the observation that several of the GFP fusion proteins apparently altered the mitochondrial morphology in transformed cells. In the case of KDSB (At1g53000.1), highly abnormal giant mitochondria occupied much of the available space in observed cells (Fig. 6A). This protein appears to be of bacterial origin (CITATION), is thought to be involved in the synthesis of the outer envelope lipopolysaccharide KDO2-Lipid A, and has been located in mitochondria, but not to the outer membrane, in previous studies in Arabidopsis (CITATION). PECT1 is the penultimate enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of phosphatidylethanolamine, an important membrane phospholipid. The overexpression of the outer membrane-targeted fusion protein (Fig. 6B) apparently causes mitochondria to bunch together at one pole of the cell. Overexpression of a mitochondrial outer membrane NADH:cytochrome B5 reductase (Fig. 6C) also appears to alter mitochondrial morphology when compared with the more typical mitochondrial outer membrane fluorescence pattern seen with the unknown protein At5g55610.1 (Fig. 6D). [[FIGURE]] In order to determine whether there was a relationship between colocalization and coexpression, the relative expression levels for the 38 genes that were present on the Affymetrix ATH1 microarray were analyzed during germination and across the Arabidopsis developmental microarray series (CITATION). Additionally, the patterns of transcript abundance for 247 genes that encode inner membrane proteins were analyzed to determine if the transcript abundance of genes that encode outer membrane proteins, or subsets of outer membrane proteins, differed from the patterns of transcript abundance for genes that encode inner membrane proteins. Data were normalized to make them comparable (see “Materials and Methods”), and expression levels are displayed relative to maximum expression (Fig. 7; Supplemental Fig. S5). Overall, it was observed that the transcript abundance of genes encoding outer and inner membrane mitochondrial proteins displayed maximum levels during seed germination, with a subset showing relatively high levels in root tissues (Supplemental Fig. S5). When all genes encoding inner membrane- and outer membrane-localized proteins were clustered together over a germination time course, it was seen that genes encoding outer membrane proteins were significantly underrepresented in cluster 2 (P < 0.05) compared with genes encoding inner membrane proteins (13% outer membrane versus 27% inner membrane; Fig. 7). Gene in cluster 2 displayed high transcript abundance in fresh harvested seeds that decreased during stratification. In contrast, 45% of genes encoding outer membrane proteins (versus 21% of inner membrane protein-encoding genes) were seen in the group of genes showing transient expression during germination in cluster 4 (Fig. 7, boxed in yellow), which represents a significant overrepresentation (P = 0.0007) of genes encoding outer membrane proteins in this cluster. Genes in cluster 4 peak in transcript abundance during the first 24 h of germination and decrease in abundance in young seedlings, as under these conditions germination is completed at 24 h in Arabidopsis, as the radicle has emerged (CITATION). Thus, although genes encoding mitochondrial outer membrane proteins follow the general pattern observed for genes encoding inner membrane proteins, in that they display maximum levels of transcript abundance during seed germination, detailed time-course analysis reveals that for a large subset (i.e. cluster 4) this differs from the majority of genes encoding mitochondrial proteins. Previously, it has been shown for maize (Zea mays) and rice (Oryza sativa) that active mitochondrial biogenesis precedes the expression of respiratory chain components of the inner membrane (CITATION; CITATION); thus, the pattern observed here suggests that the establishment of the proteins of the outer membrane is one of the earliest steps to take place in mitochondrial biogenesis. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Protoplasts were prepared from 6-d-old Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) suspension cell cultures. Typically, 500 g fresh weight of cells was collected by filtration and incubated for 3 h at 21°C with shaking at 30 rpm in 1 L of 0.4 m mannitol, 3.5 mm MES, pH 5.7, with 0.4% (w/v) cellulase and 0.05% (w/v) pectolyase (Yakult). Protoplasts were collected by centrifugation at 800g for 10 min, resuspended in 500 mL of 0.4 m Suc, 50 mm Tris, 3 mm EDTA, 20 mm Cys, 0.1% (w/v) bovine serum albumin (BSA), pH 7.5, and HCl and ruptured in a Potter-Elvehjem homogenizer. Cell debris was removed by centrifugation at 2,500g for 5 min, and the organellar fraction (supernatant) was pelleted at 20,000g for 20 min. A portion (1/16th) of this material was removed and stored at 4°C for preparation of the HSP and HSP-OM samples. The remaining organellar fraction was layered onto discontinuous Percoll gradients consisting of 18%/25%/40% (v/v) Percoll in 0.3 m mannitol, 10 mm TES, pH 7.5, and centrifuged at 40,000g for 40 min. The 25%/40% (v/v) interphase was removed and added to 300 mL of 0.3 m Suc, 10 mm TES, and 0.2% (w/v) BSA, pH 7.5 (Suc wash buffer), and centrifuged at 20,000g for 15 min. Subsequently, the supernatant was removed and the pellet was layered onto 40% (v/v) Percoll in Suc wash buffer and centrifuged at 40,000g for 40 min. The gradient-purified mitochondria were removed and washed twice in Suc wash buffer. A total of 500 μg of this sample was removed and stored at 4°C for later analysis. Typically, 100 to 150 mg of mitochondrial protein (Bradford assay) was recovered. The gradient-purified mitochondria were further purified by FFE based on a method defined previously with several alterations (CITATION). The gradient-purified mitochondria were first dispersed by passing them back and forth between two 3-mL syringes through a 10-μm membrane filter (Bio-Rad) and then passed through a 5-μm nylon syringe filter prior to introduction to the FFE separation chamber. EDTA was excluded from the FFE separation medium. FFE-purified mitochondria were collected by centrifugation at 20,000g for 10 min and washed in Suc wash medium for 10 min. Outer membranes were purified according to a previously published protocol (CITATION). In addition to the mitochondrial outer membranes, a “contaminant outer membrane” sample was generated by treating the HSP collected from the protoplast disruption step in a similar manner to the FFE-purified mitochondria. A second contaminant sample primarily consisting of mitoplasts was taken from the 32%/60% (w/v) interphase of the first Suc gradient. An inner membrane fraction was prepared by diluting this in 11 mL of Suc wash medium before freezing/thawing five times and pelleting at 504,000g for 1 h in a fixed-angle rotor. An additional contaminant sample consisting of whole mitoplasts removed from the same 32%/60% interphase but not subjected to the freezing/thawing procedure was included in the iTRAQ experiment. Ten micrograms of membrane fractions and 20 μg of organelle fractions per lane were separated by 14% (w/v) SDS-PAGE. Proteins were transferred onto nitrocellulose membranes. Primary antibodies were as follows: TOM40-1 (At3g20000.1) at 1:5,000 for 1 h at 21°C and developed according to the manufacturer’s instructions (Roche; CITATION); KAT2 antibody (CITATION) was used at 1:1,000 for 1 h at 21°C; Rubisco large subunit and Calreticulin antibodies were obtained from Abcam and used at 1:500 for 18 h at 4°C; E1α antibody was obtained from Tom Elthon (University of Nebraska) and used at 1:2,000 for 1 h at 21°C; COXII antibody was obtained from Agrisera and used at 1:5,000 for 1 h at 21°C. Antibodies to TOM20-3 (CITATION), KDSB, SAM50, PECT1, and RISP were created by purifying 6×His-tagged recombinant proteins from Escherichia coli expression using Profinia-based immobilized metal affinity chromatography (Bio-Rad). The purified proteins were used to generate rabbit polyclonal antibodies. A total of 250 μg of isolated mitochondria was resuspended in 0, 2, 8, 32, and 64 mg mL−1 proteinase K (Sigma-Aldrich) in 2.5 mL of 0.4 m Suc, 50 mm Tris, 3 mm EDTA, 0.1% (w/v) BSA, pH 7.5, and HCl. Samples were incubated on ice for 30 min before dilution in 30 mL of 0.4 m Suc, 50 mm Tris, 3 mm EDTA, 0.1% (w/v) BSA, pH 7.5, and HCl containing 1 mmol of Pefabloc SC (Roche). Samples were centrifuged at 20,000g for 15 min, resuspended in Laemmli sample buffer, and separated by SDS-PAGE. Fifty micrograms of outer membrane, HSP-OM, and inner membrane protein were individually digested overnight with trypsin (10:1), 10 mm ammonium bicarbonate, and 20% (v/v) acetonitrile. Insoluble material was removed by centrifugation at 20,000g for 5 min. Samples were then dried down in a vacuum centrifuge and analyzed on an Agilent 6510 Q-TOF mass spectrometer according to a modification of the methods reported by CITATION, as outlined in detail in Supplemental Materials and Methods S1. Spectra are available via the ProteomeCommons Tranche Project hash: 3y16ynJWUCAiKGSfZNprN/paRI32nQA9XM0asqZItzPwnf2jEB/zsnOAoSxno14kymUwnJbylKkk4cA2sGdLN52sAQ0AAAAAAAAHqg = =. Peptide count data were compiled from three biological replicates each of the outer membrane, HSP-OM, and mitochondrial inner membrane samples, as outlined in detail in Supplemental Materials and Methods S1. A total of 100 μg of four samples (outer membrane [Mt OM], contaminant outer membrane [HSP-OM], mitoplast, and inner membrane [IM]), each created by pooling three biological replicates, were analyzed according to a modification of the method reported previously (CITATION) as outlined in Supplemental Materials and Methods S1. Quantitation was carried out using an in-house quantitation method that carried out protein identifications and quantitation on isobaric tags of mass 114 to 117 at the peptide level. Ratios for individual peptide matches were obtained from peptides meeting the minimum criteria outlined above and were then combined to determine ratios for protein hits using a weighted average. The in-house method of identification and quantitation, outlier removal, minimum number of required peptides, and definitions of statistical confidence internals are outlined in detail in Supplemental Materials and Methods S1. In vitro import of putative outer membrane proteins into isolated mitochondria was performed as described previously (CITATION). Data are provided in Supplemental Figure S3, II, III, and IV. Full-length coding sequences (with the exception of At4g17140.2) of putative outer membrane proteins were cloned into the Gateway cassette cloning system according to the manufacturer’s instructions (Invitrogen; http://invitrogen.com/). Coding sequences were transferred into GFP vectors and cotransformed into Arabidopsis suspension cell culture with a red fluorescent protein control by particle bombardment as outlined previously (CITATION). Data are provided in Supplemental Figures S1 to S4. The Arabidopsis AtGenExpress developmental data set was downloaded as CEL files (E-AFMX-9) from the MIAME ArrayExpress database (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/arrayexpress/). These CEL files, in addition to the 30 CEL files that analyzed expression during germination, were imported and quantile normalized together to enable comparability across these arrays using Partek Genomics Suite version 6.5. Details for each tissue are shown in Supplemental Table S5. Once normalized, expression values were made relative to maximum expression and hierarchically clustered on Euclidean distance using average linkage clustering. Note that four genes, At1g24267, At3g11070, At3g50940, and At5g22350, were not represented on the ATH1 microarray. This method of normalization and clustering has been used effectively before to examine coexpression (CITATION). Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under the accession numbers listed in Supplemental Table S8. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Members of the mitochondrial outer membrane proteome, as shown by fluorescence microscopy of transiently transformed Arabidopsis cell culture or onion (Allium cepa) cells with full-length coding sequences fused to GFP. Supplemental Figure S2. Members of the mitochondrial outer membrane proteome that are also found in other subcellular locations, as shown by fluorescence microscopy of transiently transformed Arabidopsis cell culture or onion cells with full-length coding sequences fused to GFP. Supplemental Figure S3. Members of the putative mitochondrial outer membrane proteome that have been shown to be mitochondrial but not outer membrane by fluorescence microscopy of transiently transformed Arabidopsis cell culture or onion cells with full-length coding sequences fused to GFP. Supplemental Figure S4. Members of the putative mitochondrial outer membrane proteome that have been shown not to be mitochondrial by fluorescence microscopy of transiently transformed Arabidopsis cell culture or onion cells with full-length coding sequences fused to GFP. Supplemental Figure S5. Coexpression of genes encoding outer mitochondrial membrane proteins. Supplemental Table S1. List of the 185 proteins detected in two or more of the outer membrane-enriched biological replicates (www.Arabidopsis.org). Supplemental Table S2. List of the 64 members of the putative outer membrane proteome with evidence for identification and enrichment in the outer membrane fraction (www.Arabidopsis.org). Supplemental Table S3. Summary of the location evidence gathered in the course of this research. Supplemental Table S4. Summary of data gathered from iTRAQ analysis of the outer membrane-enriched and three prefractionation samples. Supplemental Table S5. Details of the germination microarrays and developmental tissue set (CITATION; E-AFMX-9). Supplemental Table S6. Details of the genes defined as encoding inner mitochondrial membrane proteins. Supplemental Table S7. Details of polypeptide identifications resulting from the in-gel digestion of bands excised from the gel pictured in Figure 3A  Supplemental Table S8. Sequence data. Supplemental Materials and Methods S1. Detailed MS methods.
