!~ABS~! Germination represents a rapid transition from dormancy to a high level of metabolic activity. In-depth transcriptomic profiling at 10 time points in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), including fresh seed, ripened seed, during stratification, germination, and postgermination per se, revealed specific temporal expression patterns that to our knowledge have not previously been identified. Over 10,000 transcripts were differentially expressed during cold stratification, with subequal numbers up-regulated as down-regulated, revealing an active period in preparing seeds for germination, where transcription and RNA degradation both play important roles in regulating the molecular sequence of events. A previously unidentified transient expression pattern was observed for a group of genes, whereby a significant rise in expression was observed at the end of stratification and significantly lower expression was observed 6 h later. These genes were further defined as germination specific, as they were most highly expressed at this time in germination, in comparison with all developmental tissues in the AtGenExpress data set. Functional analysis of these genes using genetic inactivation revealed that they displayed a significant enrichment for embryo-defective or -arrested phenotype. This group was enriched in genes encoding mitochondrial and nuclear RNA-processing proteins, including more than 45% of all pentatricopeptide domain-containing proteins expressed during germination. The presence of mitochondrial DNA replication factors and RNA-processing functions in this germination-specific subset represents the earliest events in organelle biogenesis, preceding any changes associated with energy metabolism. Green fluorescent protein analysis also confirmed organellar localization for 65 proteins, largely showing germination-specific expression. These results suggest that mitochondrial biogenesis involves a two-step process to produce energetically active organelles: an initial phase at the end of stratification involving mitochondrial DNA synthesis and RNA processing, and a later phase for building the better-known energetic functions. This also suggests that signals with a mitochondrial origin and retrograde signals may be crucial for successful germination.
!~RES~! To gain a comprehensive insight into Arabidopsis germination, 10 time points were selected, including freshly harvested ecotype Columbia seeds (before desiccation, directly upon removal from the silique; H), seeds desiccated for 15 d in darkness (0 h), and seeds stratified at 4°C in the dark for 1 h (1 h S), 12 h (12 h S), and 48 h (48 h S). Stratified seeds were then transferred into continuous light and further collected at 1, 6, 12, 24, and 48 h into the light (1 h SL, 6 h SL, 12 h SL, 24 h SL, and 48 h SL, respectively). As germination is generally defined as concluding when a part of the embryo emerges from the testa (generally around 24 h after imbibition in the light), the final time point (48 h SL) is considered a postgermination time point. During the time course analyzed, 15,789 genes were found to be expressed at one or more time points, with more than 95% of these genes significantly up- or down regulated (following false discovery rate correction) during this crucial developmental stage, reflecting the extensive regulation occurring at the transcript level (Supplemental Table S1). While a previous study has examined the transcriptomic responses for less than 8,000 genes during stratification (CITATION), to date, there has been no global (22,000 genes) transcriptomic analysis carried out during stratification, which may reflect the general assumption that few significant processes, apart from an increase in water content, occur during stratification. The inclusion of three time points during stratification revealed that greater than 10,000 genes are differentially expressed over the 48 h during stratification (S), with the greatest number of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) changing in transcript abundance between 12 h S and 48 h S (Fig. 1A; Supplemental Table S1). Notably, many of the changes observed were increases in transcript abundance, with a total of 7,517 unique transcripts increasing in transcript abundance over 48 h of stratification compared with 9,801 transcripts up-regulated during the first 48 h after transfer to light at 22°C (Fig. 1A). Thus, the observed differential expression is not only a reflection of the clearing out of stored transcripts upon imbibition but also the transcriptional up-regulation occurring as part of the germination process, which is supported by the observed functional categorization of the proteins encoded by these transcripts. The functional categories overrepresented in the earliest subsets of up-regulated DEGs during stratification included the oxidative pentose phosphate pathway and nitrogen and hormone metabolism (1 h S versus 12 h S; Fig. 1B). Upon closer examination, it is seen that genes encoding proteins involved in ethylene signaling are first induced in the early hours of stratification (1 h S versus 12 h S; Supplemental Table S2). This is in agreement with the role of ethylene, which has been shown to augment germination completion (CITATION; CITATION). The largest number of DEGs were observed between 12 h S and 48 h S, including an induction and overrepresentation of genes encoding nucleotide metabolism, RNA processing, and protein synthesis functions (12 h S versus 24 h S; Fig. 1B). Closer analysis of the subsets in the protein category (12 h S versus 48 h S; Fig. 1B) revealed an induction of genes encoding cytoplasmic and organellar ribosomal proteins (Supplemental Table S2). In contrast, protein modification and degradation functions were underrepresented in these subsets (12 h S versus 24 h S; Fig. 1B). [[FIGURE]] Once stratified, seeds were transferred into continuous light, and an induction and overrepresentation of genes encoding photosynthesis-related functions as well as lipid, hormone, and secondary metabolism functions were observed (Fig. 1). Interestingly, several RNA- and protein-related functions were seen to be significantly underrepresented in the subsets of DEGs up-regulated between 1 h SL and 48 h SL, possibly due to the earlier induction of these genes during stratification (Fig. 1B). As may be expected after transfer into light, an overrepresentation of lipid metabolism and developmental function-related genes, particularly storage proteins and late embryogenesis-abundant proteins, was observed in the down-regulated subsets of DEGs (1 h SL versus 6 h SL; Fig. 1; Supplemental Table S2). Closer examination of these data reveals an initial down-regulation of genes encoding lipid transfer functions between 0 h and 1 h SL, followed by a repeated overrepresentation of triacylglycerol synthesis functions in the genes down-regulated between 1 h SL and 48 h SL (Fig. 1; Supplemental Table S2). These changes complement the known breakdown of oil storage reserves that occurs during germination in oilseeds (CITATION). Thus, there appear to be distinct processes occurring between stratification (0 h to 48 h S) and germination (48 h S to 48 h SL). To visualize the expression profiles across stratification and germination (as defined in Fig. 2A), the normalized expression values for all 15,789 genes expressed over germination were made relative to the maximum expression over the time course and hierarchically clustered (see “Materials and Methods”), revealing four distinct clusters (Fig. 2B). Cluster 1 in Figure 2B represents approximately 30% of all genes expressed during germination and is characterized by low expression from dry seed to stratification and even up to 6 h SL, followed by significant up-regulation after 6 h SL (Fig. 2B). As expected, Gene Ontology (GO) overrepresentation analysis (see “Materials and Methods”) showed that this cluster was enriched in several GO categories, including genes encoding proteins targeted to the plastid, chloroplast, and ribosome (Fig. 2C). Genes encoding proteins with transferase, hydrolase, and transporter functions as well as structural molecular activity were also enriched in this cluster (cluster 1; Fig. 2C), corresponding with the increase in energy demand and significant morphological changes that are observed after 12 h SL, as the seed transcends to a seedling (Fig. 2A). The morphological changes observed during germination in this study (Fig. 2A) comply with previous observations during germination (CITATION). Furthermore, this up-regulated expression pattern can be readily observed in a previous Arabidopsis germination study that analyzed global transcriptomic changes without stratification of seeds (cluster 1; Supplemental Fig. S1; CITATION) and is also evidenced during germination in other species, such as rice and barley (CITATION; CITATION). In contrast, cluster 2 represents the stored mRNAs present in dry seed that remain at a high level of expression up to 12 h S followed by a distinct down-regulation (Fig. 2C). Genes in this cluster represent 27% of the total genes expressed during germination and were enriched in nucleus-targeted proteins, including those showing transcription factor (TF) activity (cluster 2; Fig. 2C). Given that germination can still occur in the absence of transcription (CITATION), the presence of these transcripts in dry seed, early in the time course, likely represents the crucial genes necessary for immediate response to imbibition (Fig. 2C). Again, the presence of these stored transcripts has also been observed in rice and barley (CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] By analyzing this extensive time course, it was revealed that a group of genes (in cluster 3) are expressed at a very low level up to 12 h S, then dramatically increase in abundance between 48 h S and 6 h SL, before decreasing back to significantly lower levels by 48 h SL, the majority decreasing by 12 h SL (Fig. 2B). This transient expression pattern for a significant number of genes is not apparent during germination when seeds are not stratified (Supplemental Fig. S1; CITATION). Examination of over/underrepresented GO categories for these transiently expressed genes revealed significant overrepresentation of genes encoding proteins targeted to the mitochondria, nucleus, and ribosomal proteins, corresponding with the observed overrepresentation of DNA, RNA-binding, and transcription functions (Fig. 2C, red boxes). The overrepresentation of TF functions in cluster 2 and DNA and RNA-binding functions in cluster 3 suggests a two-step regulation of genes encoding these regulatory factors, with the genes in cluster 2 likely encoding the regulatory proteins responsive to imbibition and required for the early stages of germination, while genes in cluster 3 are likely to encode the regulatory proteins required for normal germination progression and later plant development. In contrast, the genes in cluster 4 were enriched in proteins of unknown cellular localization and biological processes and slowly increased, decreased, or largely remained unchanging in abundance across the germination time course (Fig. 2, B and C). This set of genes may represent genes required for basic cellular functions, not highly responsive under germination conditions. Previous studies have shown that while germination progresses to the point of radicle emergence in the absence of transcription, seedling establishment is prevented (CITATION). Therefore, during this crucial developmental process, the translation of transcripts expressed during germination is clearly essential for further development. To identify any correlation between transcript and protein abundance, the transcript abundance profiles in this study were compared with previous studies examining protein abundance during germination (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Specifically, one study identified over 400 proteins expressed in dry seeds: seeds after 3 d of cold stratification and then 30, 48, 72, and 96 h into a 16/8-h light/dark cycle (CITATION). This study categorized a large number of the protein abundance profiles as present = 1/absent = 0 for each time point (e.g. if a protein was present in dry seed and after stratification, but not following transfer into the light/dark cycle, it was categorized as 11000; CITATION). In this way, present/absent profiles were observed for 117 unique proteins over this time course (CITATION), for which parallel expression information is also available in our study (Supplemental Table S5). A number of the proteins identified by CITATION have also previously been identified in other germination studies, and these have been annotated in Supplemental Table S5 (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Using this present/absent (1/0) profiling of protein abundance, these proteins were matched to the corresponding transcript profiles from this study (Fig. 2D). Remarkably, it was seen that 81% of the up-regulated proteins over time showed comparable transcript expression profiles (16% slowly up in cluster 4 + 65% up in cluster 1; Fig. 2D; Supplemental Table S5). Similarly, of the 20 proteins highly expressed in seeds and not detected following stratification or transfer into the light/dark cycle, 15 proteins showed similar transcript expression profiles (i.e. for transcripts in cluster 2, highly expressed in freshly harvested and dry seed and decreasing in abundance over the germination time course; Fig. 2D). Interestingly, three genes encoding DNA/RNA-binding functions, Gly-rich protein 7 (At2g21660), a heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein (At4g14300), and a Isy1-like splicing domain-containing protein (At3g18790), were seen to have both a transient transcript expression profile (i.e. were in cluster 3 in this study) and also a transient protein abundance profile (CITATION; Supplemental Table S5). To further analyze the genes that showed transient expression during germination (cluster 3; Fig. 2B), publicly available microarrays carried out on a wide variety of tissues in the AtGenExpress developmental set (Supplemental Table S3; CITATION) were downloaded, normalized, and analyzed together with the 30 arrays in this study (see “Materials and Methods”). Expression levels of the 15,789 genes expressed during germination and development were visualized in the same row (and cluster) order as shown in Figure 2B and were hierarchically clustered by tissue samples (columns) to determine in what other tissues/organs these genes were also expressed (Supplemental Fig. S2). Examination of these revealed that the genes in clusters 1 and 4 (as shown in Fig. 2B) consist of genes that are highly expressed or unchanging in expression in most other developmental tissues as well as late germination (Supplemental Fig. S2). As expected, the genes in cluster 2 (Fig. 2B) that were highly expressed in dry seeds were also highly expressed across the microarrays analyzing developing seeds (Supplemental Fig. S2). In contrast, it was observed that the genes in cluster 3 were most highly expressed between 48 h S and 12 h SL, even in comparison with all other developmental tissues (Supplemental Fig. S2, blue box). To filter these genes further for primarily germination-specific (GS) expression, only those genes that had a relative expression level greater than 0.5 (relative to maximum expression level) between 1 h S and 24 h SL across all tissues were visualized (as these time points strictly represent germination). In this way, 775 unique genes were identified as showing the highest expression during germination (i.e. GS; Fig. 3A). [[FIGURE]] Intriguingly, analysis of over/underrepresented GO categories for these 775 GS genes revealed approximately double the expected percentage of genes in this set encoding proteins targeted to the mitochondria, nucleus, and ribosomes, corresponding with the observed overrepresentation of DNA- and RNA-binding functions (Fig. 3B). Genes encoding TFs represented only 53 of the 775 genes, which was not significantly greater/less than the expected percentage in the genome. This indicates that the genes encoding mitochondria- and nucleus-localized proteins were binding DNA or RNA but performing functions other than transcriptional regulation. To discover the nature of these other encoded protein functions, the genes in these mitochondrial and nuclear subsets from the 775 GS genes were viewed based on the subfunctional groups within these sets, revealing a significant enrichment of RNA-processing functions in both sets (mitochondrial and nuclear; Fig. 3C). Additionally, helicase and ribonucleoprotein/RNA-binding functions were also seen to be enriched in the nuclear set (Fig. 3Cii). For the mitochondrial set from the 775 GS genes, protein fate functions were observed to be enriched (18% versus 8% in the whole mitochondrial set), despite the majority of genes in the mitochondria encoding metabolism and energy functions (which were underrepresented in this set; Fig. 3Cii). Closer examination of the genes encoding RNA-processing functions revealed a significant (P < 0.001) overrepresentation of pentatricopeptide repeat domain (PPR)-containing genes in this GS subset, with nearly 10% (75 genes) of the 775 genes encoding a PPR domain-containing protein, while PPR domain-containing genes only make up less than 2% of all genes in the genome. To confirm that the observed PPR gene expression pattern was limited to the transiently expressed genes during germination, the percentage of PPR genes in each cluster was examined (Fig. 3Di). Interestingly, it was seen that 45% (137) of all PPRs were in cluster 3, showing transient expression during germination, and of these, 75 genes showed GS expression (Fig. 3D). Despite the finding that this transient expression pattern cannot be readily identified when seeds are not stratified (Supplemental Fig. S1; CITATION), when the 75 PPR genes showing GS expression were examined together with the microarrays from this study, it was observed that the transient expression pattern during germination was somewhat maintained (Fig. 3Dii); however, the temporal resolution was lost or not observed. This suggests that the stage-specific expression of these genes is a characteristic of germination, independent of whether seeds undergo stratification (Fig. 3Dii). To determine whether these transiently expressed genes also displayed transient expression during germination in other species, rice orthologs of the 775 Arabidopsis GS genes were visualized, showing their expression across germination and developmental tissues in rice (details of the arrays used are shown in Supplemental Table S4; Supplemental Fig. S3A). A total of 768 rice orthologs of the 775 Arabidopsis GS genes could be identified using InParanoid (version 7.0; CITATION). Only 383 (approximately 50%) of the 768 rice orthologs displayed maximum expression during rice germination (Supplemental Fig. S3A, yellow box; CITATION; CITATION); however, these did not display the transient pattern observed in Arabidopsis. Instead, the expression pattern observed for the rice orthologs was more similar to the patterns observed for clusters 1, 2, and 4 in Arabidopsis. As PPR genes display high levels of orthology between plant species (CITATION), the subset of 68 rice PPR genes orthologous to the 75 GS genes in Arabidopsis (Fig. 3D, i and ii, green box) were isolated and the expression levels were hierarchically clustered (Fig. 3Diii). Expression of the 68 orthologous genes in rice revealed no transient expression pattern (Fig. 3Diii). In addition, visualization of these 68 rice PPR genes across germination and other developmental tissues (Supplemental Fig. S3B) further confirmed the divergence in the transcriptomic response of PPR gene expression between monocots and dicots, despite orthology. A recent study defined 481 genes as seed essential, where a loss-of-function mutation in these genes was found to result in a seed-related phenotype, mostly embryo lethal. These genes are indicated in the SeedGenes database (CITATION). The list of SeedGenes characterized as showing a seed-related phenotype (e.g. seed lethal) was matched against the genes expressed during germination. Of the 481 genes in this database (referred to as “seed-genes”), expression of 422 genes could be detected during this germination time course. A significant enrichment of seed-genes was seen in cluster 1 (35% versus 30% in the genome) and cluster 3 (22% in cluster 3 versus 15% in the genome; Supplemental Fig. S4), with 35 seed-genes observed in the set of 775 GS genes (Fig. 3A). Interestingly, the rice orthologs for these 35 genes did not show a transient expression pattern during rice germination (Supplemental Fig. S4, B and C), suggesting that despite orthology, the controlled expression of these genes during germination may be specific to Arabidopsis germination. Given the enrichment of seed-lethal genes in the 775 GS genes identified in Figure 3A, a search was carried out on the 775 to determine whether these genes encode crucial protein functions necessary for seed/seedling or even plant development. To do this, large-scale reverse genetic studies identifying phenotypes for knocked out/silenced genes were matched to the 775 GS genes. The studies/databases examined are outlined in Supplemental Table S6. In addition to the large-scale studies/databases, it was observed that 110 of the 775 GS genes encode proteins experimentally shown and/or predicted to be localized to the mitochondria (Fig. 2B); therefore, all genes encoding these proteins were individually searched for known phenotypes in previous publications. In this way, 114 genes were identified as having altered developmental phenotypes (Fig. 4A). To ensure that this process of searching for phenotypes did not have any particular bias, sets of 775 randomly selected genes were generated and examined for phenotypes exactly as carried out for the 775 GS set (i.e. all studies/databases in Supplemental Table S6, and individual searching for genes encoding mitochondrial proteins). It was seen that, overall, the 775 GS set consisted of significantly more genes with known phenotypes compared with the average number across the random gene sets (P < 0.01; 114 genes versus 79 genes expected). Moreover, the types of phenotypes also significantly differed, with more than three times the number of genes with seed-lethal/embryo-arrested phenotypes seen in the GS set (51 genes) compared with the 775 random gene sets (Fig. 4; CITATION; CITATION). Interestingly, closer examination of the 114 genes with known phenotypes also reveals an obvious enrichment of 40 genes encoding RNA-binding/processing functions, compared with only 16 in the random gene sets (Fig. 4). Examples of these genes encoding proteins involved in RNA-binding functions included RNA helicases (e.g. At5g08610), RNA-binding proteins (e.g. At4g32720 and At1g49400), various ribonucleases (e.g. At1g01040 and At2g17510), and proteins containing an RNA recognition motif (e.g. At4g24280; Supplemental Table S6). The identification of these functions as being most highly expressed during germination (Fig. 3A) combined with observations that the silencing/loss of function of a significant number of these genes results in seed-lethal/embryo-arrested phenotypes (Fig. 4; Supplemental Table S6) reveal the crucial requirement for the expression and function of RNA binding/processing during early germination and development in Arabidopsis. [[FIGURE]] The transcriptomic results presented strongly suggest a clear link between localization and coexpression, with genes encoding proteins annotated as plastid/chloroplast localized being overrepresented in cluster 1 (Fig. 2B) and genes encoding mitochondria/nucleus-localized proteins being overrepresented in cluster 3 (Fig. 2B). Considering these correlations, it was hypothesized that a selection of genes, with hitherto unconfirmed protein localizations, could encode proteins localized to the mitochondria, plastids, and/or peroxisomes, based on their expression patterns and predicted localizations as annotated in the Arabidopsis SUBA localization database (CITATION). A range of 65 genes (Supplemental Table S7) largely showing GS expression (as in Fig. 3A) were analyzed by GFP targeting to determine protein localization. Fusion proteins were constructed and transiently transformed into Arabidopsis cell culture using biolistic transformation. Organelle targeting was verified using alternative oxidase-red fluorescent protein (AOX-RFP) as a mitochondrial control, targeted small subunit of Rubisco (SSU)-RFP as a plastid control, and RFP-SRL (S, Ser; R, Arg; L, Leu) as a control for peroxisomal targeting (see “Materials and Methods”). Protein accumulation was characterized as to the mitochondria, plastid, dual targeted to the mitochondria and the plastid, peroxisome, cytoplasm, endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi, or the nucleus. Examples of fluorescence micrographs for proteins targeted to the mitochondria, plastids, and peroxisomes are shown in Figure 4A, and the complete set of targeting results is shown in Supplemental Figure S5. Most of the genes for which localization was determined exhibited low expression in dry seed and 48 h SL (i.e. they were highly expressed specifically during germination; genes with GS expression are indicated by carets in Fig. 5B). Analysis of the localization of these confirmed the predicted localization for most genes, with some exceptions, including a mitochondrial transcription termination factor (mTERF; At5g06810) and a PPR-containing protein, At4g21170, that were predicted to be mitochondrial but appear to be dual targeted to both mitochondria and plastids (Fig. 5B; Supplemental Fig. S5). It can be seen that several genes displayed in Figure 5B encode DNA/RNA-binding functions, including a mitochondrial intron maturase, a mTERF protein, many mitochondrial PPR-encoding proteins, as well as a plastid-targeted chaperone DNAJ protein, a plant homeodomain finger DNA-binding TF, and a tRNA methyltransferase (Fig. 5B). The transient expression of these genes encoding regulatory functions during germination and the confirmation of their mitochondrial and plastid localization reveal a specific step of transcriptional regulation that occurs for organellar proteins during this crucial stage of development. Further supporting the essential role of these genes during the earliest stages of germination, it was revealed that three of the 65 genes selected for localization studies encode proteins for which a loss of function results in a seed-lethal phenotype (denoted ED in Fig. 5B), as determined previously (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Each of these genes, At1g79490 (Fig. 5A), At1g10270, At5g60960, and At5g39710, encoded proteins predicted to be mitochondrial, which was confirmed by GFP analysis (Fig. 5B; Supplemental Fig. S5). Notably, a number of recent studies have also confirmed the observed localization for four of these proteins, At5g46920 (CITATION), At1g80270 (CITATION), At5g60960 (CITATION), and At4g36040 (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Furthermore, including the two seed-lethal genes annotated as “unknown function,” it can be seen that localization was determined for 13 other genes of unknown function (Fig. 5B). These analyses reveal clues about the possible functions of these genes, inferred from their organellar localization and GS expression, forming the basis of further functional studies of these genes (Fig. 5B). In addition, it was observed that two small auxin-responsive RNA-like-encoding genes were predicted to encode mitochondria-targeted proteins; however, the localization of these was determined to be nuclear/cytoplasmic (Fig. 5B). The transient expression of these was particularly interesting, as it is known that these genes are specifically regulated at the level of mRNA decay, allowing tight control of mRNA levels (CITATION). This subset of tightly controlled, transiently expressed nucleus-, mitochondria-, and/or plastid-targeted genes (Fig. 5B) may represent crucial control factors responsible for the normal regulation of gene expression during germination. It is known that, upon imbibition during germination, stored mRNAs are degraded as in vivo transcription begins, and this pattern of decrease in abundance of stored transcripts appears to be conserved independently of whether seeds are stratified or not (cluster 2; Fig. 6Aii). Similarly, the up-regulation of specific transcripts over the germination time course is also conserved (cluster 1; Fig. 6Ai). Although these expression patterns are relatively conserved during germination with/without stratification, the temporal development sequence is different due to different experimental designs. Two distinct phases of RNA degradation were evidenced (i.e. clusters 2 and 3). A comparison of these genes with the mRNA half-lives of approximately 13,000 genes that have been previously determined in Arabidopsis (CITATION) allows insight into the regulatory processes that may affect transcript stability or degradation. Given that transcripts encoding core cellular functions, such as those involved in energy (e.g. photosynthesis), have relatively long mRNA half-lives (CITATION), it was not surprising to observe a significant (P < 0.05) enrichment of transcripts with longer half-lives in cluster 1 (Fig. 6B). Similarly, given the sharp decrease that occurs after the transient expression seen in cluster 3, it was also expected to find that this cluster was enriched in transcripts with relatively short half-lives (less than 6 h; Fig. 6B). In contrast, it was surprising to see that there was no enrichment of transcripts with shorter half-lives in cluster 2 (Fig. 6B), given that this group is characterized by a significant decrease in transcript abundance (cluster 2; Fig. 6, A and B). Although this decrease is seen to occur much slower for stratified seeds (this study), it does appear that when seeds are imbibed under continuous light, with no stratification (CITATION), these stored transcripts decrease to about 50% of their dry seed levels within 6 h, indicating a relatively rapid rate of decrease in abundance (cluster 1; Fig. 6A). These findings indicate that the rate of degradation is controlled in a developmental stage-specific manner (Fig. 6, A and B). [[FIGURE]] The other factor controlling transcript abundance is transcription; therefore, without directly measuring transcription, focus was shifted to how the transcripts encoding these regulatory factors respond during germination. Thus, the Arabidopsis TF database was queried (CITATION), resulting in the observation that cluster 2 was significantly enriched in genes encoding TFs (35% of all TFs are in cluster 2; Fig. 6Ci). This is particularly interesting as it further supports the important role of mRNA stability during germination, given that genes encoding TFs are known to have short mRNA half-lives (CITATION) and yet are seen to remain stably abundant up to 12 h S (Fig. 6A). A closer look at the families of TFs in each cluster reveals specific over/underrepresentation patterns, including the significant overrepresentation of the MYB, LOB, Orphans, AUX/IAA, and bHLH families in cluster 1 (Fig. 6Cii). Interestingly, the AUX/IAA and bHLH families were also seen to be overrepresented in the group of genes showing the same up-regulation pattern over germination in rice (Fig. 6Cii, black boxes; CITATION). Several studies have examined the role of AUX/IAA proteins and have revealed that these proteins have repressor functions crucial for normal development (CITATION; CITATION). Given their conserved expression pattern, it is possible that their role in regulating germination and development is conserved across monocots and dicots. Similarly, cluster 2 was significantly enriched in the HB, Trihelix, and HSF families, with the latter also seen to be overrepresented in the parallel cluster during rice germination (Fig. 6Cii; CITATION). Previous studies have implicated a role for HSFs for normal development in plants and other eukaryotic species (CITATION), with one study even showing a build up of both transcript and protein abundance for HSFs over the course of seed development (CITATION). Therefore, it was not surprising to see the conserved expression pattern of these genes across rice and Arabidopsis (Fig. 6Cii). Although cluster 3 was not enriched in TFs, it was seen that of the TFs present, there was an enrichment of C3H, HB, C2C2 GATA, and the mTERFs, with 15 of the 23 mTERFs expressed during germination present in cluster 3 (Fig. 6Cii). It has been shown that HB TFs have a role in cell differentiation and growth; thus, their overrepresentation in cluster 3 may reflect an increase in demand for TFs controlling these vital processes during germination (CITATION). A previous study has shown the crucial role these factors play, not only in mitochondrial transcription termination but also in the initiation of transcription and the control of mitochondrial DNA replication (CITATION). The role for CH3 was also characterized in Arabidopsis embryos and was seen to be expressed from globular to late cotyledon stages (CITATION). Thus, it was not surprising to see the overrepresentation of these in cluster 3 (Fig. 6Cii). To analyze putative cis-elements that may be involved in regulating transcript abundance during germination, genes in each cluster and the 775 GS set identified in Figure 3 were examined for overrepresented putative 6-mers in the 1-kb upstream region of the transcriptional start site. The 775 GS set was specifically chosen because the abundance of these transcripts increases and decreases in a relatively short time period, and thus they are likely to be coregulated at the transcriptional level, accounting for the observed increase and possibly actively degraded to produce the decrease observed. Overall, the 1-kb upstream promoter elements displayed significant enrichment of 6-mers, with some elements found in up to 49% of the genes that showed GS expression (Table I). All promoter elements were matched against known cis-element-binding sites within the AGRIS database (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) and studies that have characterized specific binding sites (CITATION; CITATION). Any elements showing a significant overrepresentation (P < 0.05) for genes in clusters 1 to 4 and the GS subset are shown in Table I. Promoter analysis of stored mRNAs was carried out previously, and a significant overrepresentation of ABRE-binding sites was observed for these (CITATION), a feature confirmed in this study, with ABRE elements also observed in genes of cluster 2 (Fig. 6A; Table I). Interestingly, there was an overwhelmingly large number of known motifs seen in the GS subset, suggesting that numerous factors may be involved in the controlled expression pattern observed for these genes. An example of these included an overrepresentation of Telobox and Site II elements for the genes in cluster 3 and the GS subset (Table I), complying with the role of these genes in the control of genes encoding organellar proteins during development and the circadian regulation of genes encoding mitochondrial proteins (CITATION). Additionally, it can be seen that genes encoding HSF TFs were enriched in cluster 2 (Fig. 6C). It is possible that these HSFs have a role in the control of genes in the GS subset, as several heat shock element (HSE)-binding site motifs were seen to be enriched in the GS subset (Table I), implying that the stored HSF encoding transcripts in dry seed (cluster 2) may be translated upon imbibition and have a downstream role in the control of GS transcript abundance. The specific hexamer, name of the known motif, reference (Ref.) showing the source of the motif (1 = AGRIS, 2 = CITATION], 3 = CITATION), and occurrence in all genes expressed during germination in each cluster and the GS subset are shown (boldface data indicate significant overrepresentation). Note that motifs with asterisks indicate that these were also identified as overrepresented in dry seed by CITATION.
!~MM~! To analyze a range of time points before and during Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia) germination, 10 time points were analyzed including freshly harvested seeds (H; which were collected from a single batch of wild-type plants that were exactly the same age) and then the seeds following 15 d of ripening (0 h) and after 1 h of stratification (1 h S), 12 h of stratification (12 h S), and 48 h of stratification (48 h S); plates were then transferred to continuous light and collected 1 h into the light (1 h SL), 6 h into the light (6 h SL), 12 h into the light (12 h SL), 24 h into the light (24 h SL), and 48 h into the light (48 h SL). Eighty milligrams of wild-type Arabidopsis seeds was plated onto Murashige and Skoog medium (containing 3% Suc) for each individual time point collection in the time course. Collections were repeated three times for three biological replicates. For all samples collected, the Ambion Plant RNA isolation aid and RNAqeous RNA isolation kit were used for effective isolation of RNA. A total of 400 ng of total RNA was used as the starting amount of RNA for the ATH1 Arabidopsis genome expression array. Using the IVT Express kit (Affymetrix), microarrays were carried out according to the manufacturers’ instructions. Before beginning the microarray experiments as well as during the course of the microarrays, the Agilent Bioanalyzer was used to ensure high-quality starting RNA, generated amplified RNA, and effective fragmentation prior to hybridization to the microarray. All raw intensity CEL files were imported into Avadis 4.3 (Strand Genomics), and standard MAS5.0 normalization was first carried out to determine present/absent/marginal calls for each probe set. All probe sets that encoded hybridization controls, bacterial genes, and more than one single gene were excluded, leaving a global Arabidopsis expression set consisting of 15,789 probe sets. Probe sets that were called present in two or more replicates were considered to be expressed and were then used for further analysis. GC-robust multiarray average normalization was carried out for all 30 microarrays, and the resulting normalized intensities were used as the input for the differential expression analysis. This was carried out using the Cyber-T method, which implements a Bayesian method (CITATION) for the determination of probe sets showing significant changes in transcript abundance. The posterior probability of differential expression (PPDE) method within Cyber-T was used for false discovery rate calculation (CITATION). All input criteria were set according to Cyber-T recommendations applicable for each experimental set. A probe set was defined as significantly changing at P < 0.05, with a PPDE of greater than 0.96 (false discovery rate). These cutoffs and this Bayesian method of differential expression have been verified and been used in previous microarray studies (CITATION). In this way, step-wise differential expression analysis was carried out. All original microarray data files have been deposited to the Gene Expression Omnibus at the National Center for Biotechnology Information under accession number GSE30223. To view the profiles of expression changes over the time course, all GC-robust multiarray average studies were made relative to the maximum intensity over the time course. These data were then hierarchically clustered using average linkage (based on Euclidean distance), and four cluster profiles were drawn using Partek Genomics Suite (version 6.5). To determine if there was a statistically significant overrepresentation or underrepresentation of a particular subcategory of GO (i.e. GO cellular component, GO molecular function, and GO biological process), a z-score analysis was carried out to compare the two proportions (subset versus genome), where π refers to the mean and n is the number of genes in the subset. A cumulative standard normal table was used to match the z-score, and based on this, P values were determined. To analyze the functional representation of the genes differentially expressed during the time course, differential PageMan analyses were carried out using the unique set of probe sets representing the DEGs (CITATION). Fisher’s test for overrepresentation analysis (1.0 cutoff; Benjamini-Hochberg [CITATION] false discovery rate correction) was carried out in PageMan to determine statistically significant over/underrepresentation of genes classified into specific bins. To compile the publicly available Affymetrix Arabidopsis and rice (Oryza sativa) microarrays, all experiments containing CEL files were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus within the National Centre for Biotechnology Information database or from the MIAME ArrayExpress database (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/arrayexpress/). The Gene Expression Omnibus Series or Experiment numbers for the respective studies are shown in Supplemental Table S3. The Arabidopsis AtGenExpress developmental data set was downloaded as CEL files (E-AFMX-9). These CEL files in addition to the 30 CEL files from this study were imported and quantile normalized together to enable comparability across these arrays using Partek Genomics Suite version 6.5. To carry out parallel analysis for developmental conditions in rice, 41 developmental tissues for rice (Supplemental Table S4) were also downloaded and analyzed in the same manner as described for the Arabidopsis developmental set. The InParanoid: Eukaryotic Ortholog Groups database (version 7.0; CITATION) was utilized to analyze all orthologs between Arabidopsis and rice. The orthologous group file containing the rice versus Arabidopsis set was downloaded for the whole-genome comparison. This generated information for orthologs is identified by Arabidopsis Genome Initiative (AGI) numbers for Arabidopsis and The Institute for Genomic Research identifiers for rice. For this analysis, only the list of 21,192 Affymetrix probe sets that matched to individual AGI numbers was isolated and used. From those, three sets of 775 randomly selected gene-sets were generated using Partek Genomic Suite version 6.5. These sets were analyzed and scrutinized for phenotypes in exactly the same manner as was carried out for the 775 GS set identified in Figure 3A. First, large-scale forward genetics studies were mined and matched to any genes in these sets; in addition, all genes encoding proteins localized to the mitochondria were individually searched for publications indicating phenotypes, and these were collated (numbers for each set are shown in Supplemental Table S6B). Full references for all phenotypes identified in the 775 GS set are shown in Supplemental Table S6C). Given that the expression profiles showed correlation between coexpression and colocalization (e.g. the genes showing a transient expression pattern [cluster 3] were enriched in genes encoding mitochondrial proteins, while cluster 1 was enriched in genes encoding plastid proteins; Fig. 2C), a selection of 65 genes, mostly encoding proteins predicted to be mitochondrial, were selected for GFP localization analysis. For each gene, the region of the protein encoding the targeting signals was cloned in frame with GFP by Gateway cloning (Invitrogen), as described previously (CITATION). For proteins predicted to target to the mitochondria or plastid, the first 100 amino acids were fused to the N terminus of GFP. For proteins predicted to target to the peroxisome, the last 100 amino acids were fused to the C terminus of GFP. Three RFP fusion proteins were utilized as controls for subcellular localization. To control for mitochondrial targeting, the 42-amino acid mitochondrial targeting signal of AOX was fused to RFP (CITATION). To control for plastid targeting, the full-length cDNA of the plastid-targeted SSU was fused to RFP (CITATION). To control for peroxisomal targeting, the peroxisomal targeting signal 1 was fused to the C terminus of RFP, which has been used effectively previously (CITATION). Biolistic transformation of the GFP constructs of interest, with their associated RFP controls, was carried out on Arabidopsis cell suspensions as reported previously (CITATION). Approximately 5 μg of both the GFP fusion protein and the RFP control was coprecipitated onto gold particles and transiently transformed using the biolistic PDS-1000/He system (Bio-Rad; http://bio-rad.com/). Gold particles were bombarded into 2 mL of Arabidopsis cell suspension spread on filter paper placed on osmoticum plates, followed by incubation at 22°C for 24 h in the dark. Visualization of the fluorescent proteins was carried out using an Olympus BX61 fluorescence microscope (http://www.olympusmicro.com) with excitation wavelengths of 460/480 nm for GFP and 535/555 nm for RFP; emission wavelengths were measured at 495 to 540 nm for GFP and 570 to 625 nm for RFP. Micrographs were captured and processed using cell-imaging software as described previously (CITATION). Localizations as determined by GFP analysis were as follows: At5g60730, mitochondrial; At5g40660, mitochondrial; At1g14620, mitochondrial; At4g14790, mitochondrial; At3g23830, mitochondrial; At1g10270, mitochondrial; At5g39960, mitochondrial; At5g46920, mitochondrial; At1g67620, mitochondrial; At1g61990, mitochondrial; At1g09680, mitochondrial; At1g20300, mitochondrial; At1g80270, mitochondrial; At2g15630, mitochondrial; At2g40240, mitochondrial; At4g02820, mitochondrial; At5g60960, mitochondrial; At5g61370, mitochondrial; At3g15140, mitochondrial; At3g19440, mitochondrial; At5g54580, mitochondrial; At4g29540, mitochondrial; At1g71850, mitochondrial; At2g39120, mitochondrial; At1g08220, mitochondrial; At1g28395, mitochondrial; At1g79490, mitochondrial; At5g39710, mitochondrial; At5g47455, mitochondrial; At5g03455, mitochondrial; At2g16570, plastid; At1g30270, plastid; At4g36040, plastid; At2g27510, plastid; At1g09940, plastid; At4g08790, plastid; At3g07780, plastid; At1g78050, plastid; At5g66950, plastid; At3g56330, plastid; At1g51080, plastid; At1g52720, plastid; At3g19680, plastid; At3g24506, plastid; At3g56360, plastid; At5g06810, mitochondrial/plastid; At4g21170, mitochondrial/plastid; At1g06270, plastid membrane/endoplasmic reticulum; At3g60680, peroxisome/cytoskeleton; At1g69270, peroxisome; At4g14680, nucleus; At2g44510, nucleus; At2g45210, nucleus; At1g02870, nucleus; At1g07220, nucleus; At1g18680, cytoplasmic; At1g64185, cytoplasmic; At5g51770, cytoplasmic; At5g50760, cytoplasmic; At5g65450, cytoplasmic; At1g31940, cytoplasmic; At1g74680, endoplasmic reticulum; At3g21140, endoplasmic reticulum; At1g04900, endoplasmic reticulum; At4g00750, Golgi. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Gene expression profiles during germination without stratification (data from CITATION) were also hierarchically clustered in parallel. Supplemental Figure S2. Gene expression across Arabidopsis germination and development. Supplemental Figure S3. Expression of rice genes orthologous to 775 Arabidopsis GS genes across rice germination and development. Supplemental Figure S4. Expression profiles of all 422 genes with known seed phenotypes (described in the SeedGenes database; CITATION). Supplemental Figure S5. GFP fluorescence images for the 65 proteins targeted to the mitochondria, plastids, and/or peroxisomes. Supplemental Figure S6. PageMan output for DEGs during Arabidopsis germination without stratification (A), original microarray data from CITATION, and including stratification (B), as in this study. Supplemental Figure S7. Gene expression profiles during germination with stratification (this study) and without stratification (data from CITATION) are visualized in parallel for genes encoding proteins involved in ethylene-related functions (based on PageMan bins). Supplemental Table S1. Differential expression analysis in dry seeds and stratified and germinating seedlings. Supplemental Table S2. PageMan output for DEGs during Arabidopsis germination. Supplemental Table S3. Details of the developmental tissue set (CITATION; E-AFMX-9) AtGenExpress (ATGE) accessions, number of biological replications, sample details, genotype, tissue, age, photoperiod, growth, and substrate. Supplemental Table S4. Details of the developmental tissue microarrays used for rice. Supplemental Table S5. Comparison of protein abundance data from CITATION with the parallel transcript abundance profiles in this germination study. Supplemental Table S6. Details of the phenotypes shown in Figure 4, names of database resources used, and full references for these genes. Supplemental Table S7. A selection of genes (more than 75% from cluster 3) with predicted organellar localizations were analyzed by GFP tagging to confirm protein localization.
