!~ABS~! According to the AtGenExpress transcriptome data sets, AtbZIP1 is an Arabidopsis gene induced by several abiotic stresses, such as salt, cold and drought. Here, we isolated AtbZIP1, and used semi-quantitative reverse transcription-PCR to verify that AtbZIP1 expression was indeed significantly induced by salt, osmotic, and cold stresses in Arabidopsis. AtbZIP1 knockout mutants showed a reduced tolerance to salt and osmotic stresses, coinciding with a suppression of the expression of several stress-responsive genes, such as COR15A, RD17 and RD29A. Consistently, the restoration of AtbZIP1 in the knockout lines restored the plants ability to tolerate salt and osmotic stresses. Furthermore, overexpressing AtbZIP1 in the wild type Arabidopsis resulted in an enhanced tolerance to salt and drought stresses. Sequence analysis shows that AtbZIP1 belongs to the S subfamily of basic leucine zipper transcription factors (TFs). The transient expression of green fluorescent protein-AtbZIP1 in tobacco leaf cells showed that AtbZIP1 localizes in nuclei. A transactivation assay further suggested that AtbZIP1 functions as a transcriptional activator in yeast and the two protein motifs (aa 13–38 and 92–118) are indispensable for transactivation activity. These results indicate that the TF AtbZIP1 is a positive regulator of plant tolerance to salt, osmotic, and drought stresses.
!~RES~! Previous studies have demonstrated that bZIP TFs are involved in regulating plant responses to various biotic and abiotic stresses. The publicly available AtGenExpress transcriptome data sets (Kilian et al. CITATION), indicate that AtbZIP1 is up-regulated in responses to abiotic stress. Therefore, we isolated the full-length AtbZIP1 gene, including the 5′ and 3′ UTRs, from Arabidopsis thaliana genomic DNA. Sequence alignments revealed that AtbZIP1 contained a conserved bZIP domain (Fig. S1b), which includes a basic region at the N-terminus, responsible for sequence-specific DNA binding, and a less conserved leucine zipper at the C-terminus, responsible for protein dimerization. Further analysis revealed that the AtbZIP1 transcript contains a uORF of 78 bp (Fig. S1a), which is also present in other group S bZIPs (e.g., AtbZIP2, AtbZIP44, and AtbZIP53) that are involved in post-transcriptional repression and sugar signalling (Jakoby et al. CITATION; Weltmeier et al. CITATION; Kang et al. CITATION). To better understand the function of AtbZIP1, we used semi-quantitative RT-PCR to investigate its transcript levels, in leaves and roots, under various environmental conditions. As shown in Fig. 1a, AtbZIP1 transcript levels, under normal growth conditions, were greater in roots than in shoots. No obvious difference in transcript levels was observed between 4- and 10-week-old Arabidopsis, indicating that AtbZIP1 expression was independent of plant development. [[FIGURE]]  Under abiotic stress conditions, AtbZIP1 expression in different organs varied greatly. Transcript levels were much higher in the roots when the plants were salt stress (300 mM NaCl), osmotic stress (30% PEG6000), or cold stress (4°C). For each of these treatments, AtbZIP1 expression reached maximal levels at 3, 1, and 3 h, respectively (Fig. 1b–d). Increases in AtbZIP1 transcription were also detected in shoots after 0.5 h of salt and osmotic stress treatments, reaching a maximum after 3 h of exposure (Fig. 1b, c). Cold treatments, on the other hand, resulted in fluctuations in AtbZIP1 transcripts in the shoots where AtbZIP1 level dropped to almost zero at 0.5 h and 3 h but recovered at 1 h and 6 h and thereafter (Fig. 1d). These changes in AtbZIP1 transcription levels, under different abiotic stress conditions, indicate that AtbZIP1 might be an important gene involved in plant abiotic stress response. We fused the full-length AtbZIP1, and serially truncated fragments thereof, to the GAL4 DNA-binding domain in the pGBKT7 vector (Fig. 2a), and introduced the constructs to the yeast reporter strain AH109. The fusion protein expression was detected by Western blot (Fig. 2b). LacZ activity was assessed using a β-galactosidase filter lift assay. The pGBKT7-AtDREB1A vector was employed as a positive control. Yeast cells harboring pGBKT7-AtbZIP1, pGBKT7-AtbZ1, pGBKT7-AtbZ2, pGBKT7-AtbZ3, pGBKT7-AtbZ4 and pGBKT7-AtDREB1A, were capable of growth on the SD/-Trp media, however, as shown in Fig. 2d, only the yeast cells harboring pGBKT7-AtbZIP1, pGBKT7-AtbZ1, pGBKT7-AtbZ3 and pGBKT7-AtDREB1A grew well on SD/-Trp-His media, indicating that only these constructs were capable of promoting transcription. The yeast bearing pGBKT7-AtbZ2 and pGBKT7-AtbZ4 could not grow on SD/-Trp-His, nor did they demonstrate any β-galactosidase activity, thus indicating a lack of transactivation activity. Quantitative β-galactosidase activity assays showed that the full-length AtbZIP1 had the highest transactivation activity, and that the deletion of its N-terminus (aa 1–13, AtbZ1) or C-terminus (aa 118–145, AtbZ3) would decrease AtbZIP1 transactivation activity. However, these deletions were not as serious as the deletion of larger N-terminal (aa 1–38, AtbZ2) and C-terminal (aa 92–145, AtbZ4) fragments, whose deletion significantly decreased AtbZIP1 transactivation activity (P < 0.01). This indicates that the basic region of the N-terminus, and the fragment close to the C-terminus (aa 92–145), are indispensable for transactivation activity (Fig. 2c). [[FIGURE]]  To determine the subcellular localization of AtbZIP1, a fusion of AtbZIP1 and GFP, under the control of a 35S promoter (Fig. 3a), was transiently expressed in the leaves of N. benthamiana. Three days after infiltration, GFP fluorescence could be efficiently detected under the confocal microscope at 488 nm. N. benthamiana leaves infiltrated with the pCEG vector (negative control) displayed fluorescence throughout the entire cell (Fig. 3b), but fluorescence in the N. benthamiana leaves infiltrated with pCEG-AtbZIP1:GFP was observed exclusively in the nuclei, demonstrating that AtbZIP1 is a nuclear-localized protein. [[FIGURE]]  We used WT Arabidopsis and two KO mutants (SALK_069489C and SALK_059343) to examine the role AtbZIP1 plays in abiotic stress response. The KO mutants were generated by T-DNA insertion (Fig. 4a), and, using RT-PCR, we verified that AtbZIP1 was not expressed in the two KO mutants, in contrast to WT Arabidopsis, indicating that AtbZIP1 was effectively silenced in the two KO mutant (Fig. 4b). [[FIGURE]]  To determine whether the AtbZIP1 knockout affected the plants tolerance to salt, we exposed seedlings to increasing concentrations of NaCl. When treated with 150 mM NaCl, the germination of WT and KO seeds was greatly inhibited (data not shown). When treated with 100 mM NaCl, KO-1 had similar but KO-2 had significantly lower germination rate than the WT Arabidopsis (P < 0.05 by Student’s t test; Fig. 4c). On the 14th day of the 100 mM NaCl treatment, WT and mutant seedlings exhibited similar growth performance, showing no significant differences in fresh weight. On day 21, WT plants displayed better growth with more normal true leaves, while the KO lines exhibited dwarfed and vitrified leaves (Fig. 4d, e). When treated with 125 mM NaCl, the germination rate and fresh weight of WT plants was greater than that of the two KO mutants (Fig. 4c–e). On the 21st day, most plant leaves (WT and KOs) were dwarfed and vitrified. To determine whether the AtbZIP1 knockout affected the plants tolerance to osmotic stress, we exposed seedlings to increasing concentrations of mannitol. On ½ MS media supplemented with 400 mM mannitol, only WT seeds could germinate, although they could not develop healthy true leaves (data not shown). When treated with 200 mM mannitol, the KO-2 plants exhibited a decreased germination rate, compared with WT, while the germination and leaf-opening rate of the KO-1 mutant remained similar to that of WT Arabidopsis. About 95, 65 and 35%, of WT, KO-1, and KO-2 seedlings, respectively, displayed 4 normal true leaves, however, many more KO mutant leaves were vitrified (Fig. 5a, c). When exposed to 300 mM mannitol, the WT plants had higher germination rate and more opening leaves than the KO lines (Fig. 5b, d). However, whether in WT or KO lines, most of the seedlings had only 2 leaves. [[FIGURE]]  To verify that the decreased resistance of KO plants to abiotic stresses was due to the knockout of AtbZIP1, we generated AtbZIP1 complementation lines (CO), which expressed AtbZIP1, under the control of the strong constitutive CaMV35S promoter, in KO mutant lines (Fig. 6a). Two independent, T4 generation, transgenic lines were identified by semi-quantitative RT-PCR (Fig. 6b), where results showed that AtbZIP1 expression was restored to the KO plants. [[FIGURE]]  Under standard culture conditions, we did not observe any noticeable difference in the germination of the two CO lines (lines #6 and #9), compared with WT plants. To test the resistances to salt and osmotic stesses at the seedling stage, 7-day-old WT, KO, and CO seedlings, germinated and grown under normal conditions, were transferred to ½ MS media supplemented with either 125 mM NaCl or 300 mM mannitol, and grown for 12 days. As shown in Fig. 6d, under 125 mM NaCl, the maximum rosette size of both WT and CO plants was larger than measured in KO lines. When grown in 300 mM mannitol, the growth of primary roots was significantly inhibited in the KO plants compared to that of WT and CO lines (Fig. 6c, e). All of these results demonstrate that the decreased stress resistance exhibited by the KO plants was due to the AtbZIP1 knockout, and that the re-insertion of AtbZIP1 could restore salt and osmotic stress resistance to the KO mutant lines. To further characterize the function of AtbZIP1, we generated transgenic plants (OX) by overexpressing AtbZIP1, under the control of a CaMV35S promoter, in WT Arabidopsis (Fig. 7a). RT-PCR analysis revealed more AtbZIP1 transcripts in the transgenic plants than in the WT plants (Fig. 7b). [[FIGURE]]  We tested the salt and osmotic stress tolerance of WT Arabidopsis and transgenic OX lines at the adult seedling stage. After irrigating with 300 mM NaCl for 15 days, the transgenic plants displayed greater salt tolerance than WT, with many more green leaves (Fig. 7c). Quantitative data showed that the decrease in total chlorophyll content was less in OX lines than in WT plants (Fig. 7e). As shown in Fig. 6d, after the drought treatment, most WT Arabidopsis died, while the OX plants survived and bloomed. These results were further quantified in an analysis of survival rates (Fig. 7f). Altogether, overexpressing AtbZIP1 significantly improved the salt and drought resistance of the transgenic plants. Previous studies have suggested that several genes are good markers of abiotic stress responses. In this project, we chose NCED3, COR15A, COR15B, LEA14, RD17, RD29A, RD29B, and COR47 as marker genes, and examined their expression in WT Arabidopsis and the KO-1 mutant (SALK_069489C) under different conditions, in an attempt to determine the possible regulatory relationships between AtbZIP1 and these genes. Our RT-PCR results showed that all the genes responded to salt and osmotic stress in WT and KO plants, however, their expression in the KO-1 mutant was reduced in comparison to WT (Fig. 8). Expression analysis of these stress response markers suggests that they have a close relationship with AtbZIP1 in the plants response to abiotic stresses. [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! The WT Arabidopsis thaliana (Columbia ecotype), and the A. thaliana AtbZIP1 knockout mutants, SALK_069489C (KO-1) and SALK_059343 (KO-2), were obtained from the European Arabidopsis Stock Centre (NASC; http://arabidopsis.org.uk/). Arabidopsis seeds were germinated at 22°C with 100 μmol photons/m2 s, 60% relative humidity, and an 18 h light/6 h dark cycle. For developmental stage analysis, total RNA was isolated from 4-week-old Arabidopsis at the rosette stage, and 10-week-old Arabidopsis at the flowering stage. For the expression pattern analysis of AtbZIP1, WT Arabidopsis seeds were germinated and grown on filter paper (Whatman 3MM) saturated with ½ Murashige and Skoog (MS) solution, and then the 21-day-old seedlings were treated with 300 mM NaCl, 30% (w/v) PEG6000, or 4°C. The total RNA was separately isolated, from the leaves and roots of Arabidopsis seedlings harvested at 0, 0.5, 1, 3, 6, and 12 h after treatments. For the analysis of abiotic stress response genes, total RNA was isolated from WT and KO mutant Arabidopsis seedlings, which were treated with 300 mM NaCl or 30% PEG6000 for 3 h. Total RNA was extracted using an RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA, USA). Using the Superscript III Kit (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA), the first-strand cDNA was synthesized with the oligo d(T)18 reverse primer according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR was carried out with 0.5–2 μL of cDNA in a 25 μL reaction volume. The actin gene was used as an internal control. The primer pairs used in the RT-PCR are presented in Table S1. The PCR products were resolved by electrophoresis on a 2% agarose gel. The full-length AtbZIP1 was amplified using the following primer pairs: 5′-TTTCCATGGTTATGGCAAACG-3′ and 5′-AAACTGCAGCTTGTCTTAAAGGACG-3′. Four truncated forms of AtbZIP1 were also amplified: AtbZ1, encoding aa 13–145 (5′-AAACCATGGACATAGATGAGAAGA-3′ and 5′-AAAGGATCCATGTCTTAAAGGAC-3′), AtbZ2, encoding aa 38–145 (5′-AAACCATGGAGTTAATGGAAGAC-3′ and 5′-AAAGGATCCATGTCTTAAAGGAC-3′), AtbZ3, encoding aa 1–118 (5′-TTTCCATGGTTATGGCAAACG-3′ and 5′-AAAGGATCCCCGCGTTTG-3′), and AtbZ4, encoding aa 1–92 (5′-TTTCCATGGTTATGGCAAACG-3′) and (5′-AAAGGATCCTCTCTAAATCGCTAAC-3′). The yeast strain AH109 (LYS2: AL1, MATa, trp1-901, leu2-3, 112, ura3-52, his3-200, gal4∆, gal80∆ UAS -GAL1 TATA -HIS3, GAL2 UAS -GAL2 TATA -ADE2, URA3::MEL1 UAS -MEL1 TATA -lacZ, MEL1) was used in the transcription activation assays. Yeast growth and transformation were carried out according to the BD Yeastmaker™ Transformation System 2 User Manual (PT1172-1). For the transcription activation assays, pGBKT7-AtbZIP1, pGBKT7-AtbZ1, pGBKT7-AtbZ2, pGBKT7-AtbZ3, pGBKT7-AtbZ4, and pGBKT7-AtDREB1A were transformed into yeast strain AH109 cells. The transformants were grown and selected on synthetic defined (SD)/-Trp and SD/-Trp-His media. Preparation of yeast protein extracts was conducted according to the Yeast Protocols Handbook (PT3024-1), using the TCA method. LacZ activity was assessed using the β-galactosidase filter lift assay. The quantitative β-galactosidase activity assays were performed according to the Yeast Protocols Handbook, using chlorophenol red-β-d-galactopyranoside (CPRG) as a substrate. To determine the subcellular localization of AtbZIP1, the full-length AtbZIP1 was amplified (primers: 5′-TTTCCATGGTTATGGCAAACG-3′ and 5′-AAAGAGCTCCTTGTCTTAAAGGACG-3′) and inserted into the NcoI/SacI-digested pCEG vector to generate pCEG-AtbZIP1:GFP. The pCEG-AtbZIP1:GFP vector was introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA105, with pCEG as the negative control. The intact leaves of 4-week-old Nicotiana benthamiana were infiltrated with A. tumefaciens harboring pCEG-AtbZIP1:GFP or pCEG as described (Kapila et al. CITATION). Green fluorescence from the transiently expressed constructs was observed at 488 nm using a confocal laser scanning microscope (SP5; Leica, Germany). To generate transgenic plants, the ORF of AtbZIP1 was cloned into the SwaI and BamHI-digested plant transformation binary vector pFGC1008, placed under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter, with HPT as the selectable marker gene. The ORF was amplified using the primer pair: 5′-ATATTTAAAATGGCAAACG-3′ and 5′-AAAGGATCCCTTGTCTTAAAGGACG-3′. The construct, pFGC1008-AtbZIP1, was introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA4404, and transformed into the KO mutants and WT Arabidopsis as previously described (Clough and Bent CITATION), producing the AtbZIP1 complementation (CO) and overexpression (OX) transgenic lines, respectively. The transformants were selected on ½ MS media containing 20 μg/mL hygromycin, then transplanted into soil and grown in the greenhouse. The T1 seeds were harvested and sown again to generate T2 plants for further characterization. The homozygous transgenic lines from the T4 generation were used in the following phenotypic analysis. In all phenotypic examinations, Arabidopsis seeds were surfaced-sterilized as described (Ho et al. CITATION), and grown on ½ MS media. For salt tolerance, the plants were grown on the media supplemented with 100 mM NaCl, for 21 days, or 125 mM NaCl, for 14 days. For the osmotic stress tolerance test, seeds were grown on ½ MS media with 200 or 300 mM mannitol, for 14 days. For the measurement of the lengths of rosettes and roots, the seeds from WT, KO, and CO lines were germinated and grown on ½ MS media for 7 days. The plants were then transferred to fresh medium (with and without 125 mM NaCl, or 300 mM mannitol), to be grown for another 12 days before rosette size and root lengths were measured. For the salt tolerance test, 3-week-old seedlings of WT and OX transgenic (T4) Arabidopsis were irrigated with a 300 mM NaCl solution, every 3 days. Photos were taken on the 15th day, and chlorophyll content was determined spectrophotometrically. For the drought tolerance test of WT and OX transgenic plants, the plants were grown under normal conditions for 3 weeks. Water was then withheld from the plants for 15 days, followed by a resumption of regular watering. All experiments were repeated at least 3 times, and the results from one representative experiment are shown. The data were subjected to statistical analyses using SPSS statistical software 13.0 (SPSS, http://www.spss.com).
