!~ABS~! Light is an important environmental information source that plants use to modify their growth and development. Palisade parenchyma cells in leaves develop cylindrical shapes in response to blue light; however, the photosensory mechanism for this response has not been elucidated. In this study, we analyzed the palisade cell response in phototropin-deficient mutants. First, we found that two different light-sensing mechanisms contributed to the response in different proportions depending on the light intensity. One response observed under lower intensities of blue light was mediated exclusively by a blue light photoreceptor, phototropin 2 (PHOT2). Another response was elicited under higher intensities of light in a phototropin-independent manner. To determine the tissue in which PHOT2 perceives the light stimulus to regulate the response, green fluorescent protein (GFP)–tagged PHOT2 (P2G) was expressed under the control of tissue-specific promoters in the phot1 phot2 mutant background. The results revealed that the expression of P2G in the mesophyll, but not in the epidermis, promoted palisade cell development. Furthermore, a constitutively active C-terminal kinase fragment of PHOT2 fused to GFP (P2CG) promoted the development of cylindrical palisade cells in the proper direction without the directional cue provided by light. Hence, in response to blue light, PHOT2 promotes the development of cylindrical palisade cells along a predetermined axis in a tissue-autonomous manner.
!~RES~! It has previously been reported that cylindrical palisade cells develop in response to blue, but not red, light (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). First, we confirmed those reports under monochromatic lights with different intensities from 30 to 180 μmol m−2 s−1. Transverse sections were prepared from the fourth leaves of wild-type Arabidopsis seedlings grown under 100 μmol m−2 s−1 blue light for 10 d or under red light for 20 d (Figure 1A). As expected, cylindrical cells were observed in the subepidermal palisade layer in leaves grown under blue light but not in leaves grown under red light (Figure 1A). [[FIGURE]] We then determined cell heights in the anticlinal direction and cell widths in the periclinal direction on the sections. In red light, statistically significant increases in both cell height and width were observed with increasing light intensity up to 100 μmol m−2 s−1 (P < 0.05, Student’s t test; Figure 1B). By contrast, blue light increased cell height but not cell width up to 180 μmol m−2 s−1. To compare the cell slenderness under different light conditions, the height-to-width ratios were calculated (Figure 1C). Cell slenderness increased with increasing the blue light intensity, whereas cells remained almost spherical in red light up to 100 μmol m−2 s−1 (Figure 1C). Similarly, the cell slenderness was increased under strong white light (see Supplemental Figures 1A and 1C online). Although the effect was not clear in very young leaves, the cells became more slender as they developed (see Supplemental Figure 1B online). Two phototropins, PHOT1 and PHOT2, function redundantly in Arabidopsis (CITATION; CITATION, CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We therefore examined the response in the phot1 phot2 double mutant under the same light conditions. The phot1 phot2 palisade cells remained spherical even under 100 μmol m−2 s−1 blue (Figures 1A to 1C) or 350 μmol m−2 s−1 white light (see Supplemental Figures 1A to 1C online), indicating that phototropins almost exclusively mediated the response under these conditions. Furthermore, cell slenderness was increased even in phot1 phot2 under blue light ranging from 100 to 180 μmol m−2 s−1 (Figure 1C). No palisade cell response was observed under monochromatic blue light at 30 μmol m−2 s−1 (Figure 1C). Hence, the observed response appeared to be less sensitive than other phototropin-mediated responses, such as phototropism, chloroplast avoidance movement, and stomatal opening (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To further investigate this phenomenon, we compared the effects of lower intensities of blue light combined with background red light (Figure 2A). The response under 30 μmol m−2 s−1 blue light in the presence of 70 μmol m−2 s−1 red light (B30/R70) was indistinguishable from that under monochromatic 100 μmol m−2 s−1 blue light (Figure 2A). Even 5.0 μmol m−2 s−1 blue light in combination with 95 μmol m−2 s−1 red light (B5/R95) was partially effective in eliciting the response (Figure 2A). Hence, the development of slender cells may require not only phototropin activation but also a certain amount of light to sustain cell growth. [[FIGURE]] PHOT1 is usually more sensitive to light than PHOT2 (CITATION). We therefore examined the palisade cell response in the phot1 and phot2 single mutants. The response was substantially reduced in the phot2 mutant, whereas the phot1 mutant showed an almost normal response (Figure 2A). These results indicated that the blue light–dependent development of cylindrical palisade cells was mediated principally by PHOT2. Some responses mediated by PHOT2, such as the chloroplast avoidance response, are clearly less sensitive than the present response (CITATION). However, the chloroplast accumulation response mediated by PHOT2 is elicited by only 2 μmol m−2 s−1 blue light (CITATION; CITATION). Hence, the blue light sensitivity of the palisade cell response was relatively high but within the range of known PHOT2-mediated responses. The levels of PHOT1 and PHOT2 can be affected by light conditions (CITATION; CITATION). Hence, we examined the levels of both proteins by immunoblotting (Figure 2B). The PHOT1 level in the fourth leaves was substantially reduced under 100 μmol m−2 s−1 blue light, whereas the level remained relatively high under 30 μmol m−2 s−1 blue light (Figure 2B). As expected, PHOT1 was more stable under monochromatic red light at either 30 or 100 μmol m−2 s−1. Interestingly, the level was substantially reduced under B30/R70 light (Figure 2B), indicating that 30 μmol m−2 s−1 blue and 70 μmol m−2 s−1 red lights synergistically reduced the level of PHOT1. In contrast with PHOT1, the PHOT2 level has been reported not to be affected by blue light (CITATION; CITATION). However, it was reduced to some extent under both B100 and B30/R70 conditions compared with R100 (Figure 2B). The PHOT2 promoter is active in most leaf tissues, including the mesophyll and epidermis (CITATION). To elucidate the photoperceptive site within the leaf for the palisade cell response, we developed the transgenic plants that expressed P2G under the control of the CAB3 and CER6 promoters, which have been used for mesophyll-specific (CAB3) and epidermis-specific (CER6) expression of exogenous proteins (CITATION). As a control, the P2G gene was expressed under the control of the native PHOT2 promoter (CITATION). Each of these three P2G fusion constructs was transformed into the phot1 phot2 double mutant to establish lines named ProPHOT2:P2G, ProCAB3:P2G, and ProCER6:P2G, respectively. Immunoblot analysis with anti-PHOT2 polyclonal antibody revealed that the P2G protein was expressed at the predicted size (~130 kD) in all the lines (Figure 3A). We then examined the tissue-specific expression of P2G under a confocal laser scanning microscope. As expected, GFP fluorescence was detected only in the mesophyll and epidermis in ProCAB3:P2G and ProCER6:P2G plants, respectively (Figure 3B; see Supplemental Figure 2 online). By contrast, the fluorescence was observed in both tissues in the ProPHOT2:P2G plants (Figure 3B; see Supplemental Figure 2 online). [[FIGURE]] To validate the tissue-specific expression of the above lines functionally, we examined the chloroplast avoidance response, which is known to be regulated by PHOT2 in a cell-autonomous manner (CITATION). Under 50 μmol m−2 s−1 blue light, chloroplasts avoided the light and accumulated at the anticlinal sides of the cells in wild-type, phot1, and ProPHOT2:P2G plants (Figure 4A), as previously reported (CITATION; CITATION). As expected, the same response was observed in ProCAB3:P2G plants, whereas chloroplasts stayed at the tops of the cells in phot1 phot2 and ProCER6:P2G plants (Figure 4A). [[FIGURE]] PHOT1 and PHOT2 redundantly regulate the leaf-flattening response (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Accordingly, curled leaves were observed in phot1 phot2 (Figure 4B; see Supplemental Figure 3A online). In contrast with the chloroplast avoidance response, ProCER6:P2G, but not ProCAB3:P2G, complemented this phenotype (Figure 4B; see Supplemental Figure 3A online). Namely, the ProCAB3:P2G plants had curled leaves even under blue light (Figure 4B; see Supplemental Figure 3A online). P2G in the epidermis, but not in the mesophyll, therefore restored the leaf flattening response. Taken together, this evidence showed that P2G was expressed in the target tissues. We then examined the palisade cell development in the above lines under different light conditions. As expected, no response was observed under 100 μmol m−2 s−1 red light in all the lines (Figure 5A). Importantly, cylindrical palisade cells were observed under B30/R70 light in the ProCAB3:P2G plants, but not in the ProCER6:P2G plants. Hence, the mesophyll was demonstrated to be the photoperceptive site for this response. [[FIGURE]] To examine whether PHOT2 was distributed along the developmental axis in palisade cells, we observed the P2G fluorescence in ProPHOT2:P2G plants. In the transverse sections of leaves, the P2G fluorescence was uniformly detected in the plasma membrane region regardless of light conditions (Figure 5B). Hence, no correlation was observed between P2G intracellular distribution and the directional development of the cells. We further examined the possibility that incident light acted as a directional cue for the development of cylindrical cells with the aid of the Pro35S:P2CG transgenic plants (previously described as 35-P2CG/p1p2-14 in CITATION). In this line, PHOT2-mediated physiological responses, such as stomatal opening and chloroplast avoidance, are induced without light stimulus due to constitutive expression of the P2CG fragment (CITATION). The Pro35S:P2CG plants were grown under 100 μmol m−2 s−1 red light or B30/R70 light and subjected to the anatomical analyses. Cylindrical palisade cells were found to have developed even in red light (Figure 6A). Furthermore, those cylindrical cells were oriented perpendicular to the leaf surface (Figure 6A). The slenderness values were the same in the two light conditions (Figure 6B; see Supplemental Figure 4A online). Since the P2CG fragment lacks the photosensory N-terminal LOV domains (CITATION), we conclude that the direction of the development of cylindrical cells is determined independent of the direction of incident light. [[FIGURE]] We also examined the intracellular distribution of P2CG in the Pro35S:P2CG plants. The localization of P2CG was uniformly detected to be in the plasma membrane region in palisade cells (see Supplemental Figure 4B online), as is the case with P2G (Figure 5B), though the expression level was much lower in the Pro35S:P2CG plants. Hence, we confirmed that the phototropin localization in the cells was not directly related to the determination of the developmental axis. PHOT2 promotes chloroplast accumulation at the anticlinal side of palisade cells under relatively strong blue light (CITATION). This avoidance response is constitutively induced in the Pro35S:P2CG cells (CITATION). Therefore, we thought that the development of cylindrical cells might be a direct consequence of the position adopted by chloroplasts to avoid light. To test this possibility, we examined the palisade cell development in the chloroplast-positioning mutants j-domain protein required for chloroplast accumulation response1 (jac1) glabra1 (gl1) (CITATION) and chloroplast unusual positioning1 (chup1) gl1 (CITATION; CITATION). We first confirmed that the chloroplast light avoidance response was induced under B30/R70. For this experiment, wild-type plants carrying the gl1 mutation were used because the other mutants examined here were all in the gl1 mutant background. Consequently, gl1 plants but not phot1 phot2 gl1 plants exhibited the response (see Supplemental Figure 5A online). As reported previously (CITATION), avoidance-like distribution of chloroplasts was observed in jac1 gl1 under both 100 μmol m−2 s−1 red light and B30/R70 light (Figure 7A; see Supplemental Figure 5A online). Nevertheless, cylindrical palisade cells were observed only under B30/R70 light (Figure 7B; see Supplemental Figure 5B online). Hence, accumulation of chloroplasts at the anticlinal side of the palisade cells did not necessarily induce the development of cylindrical cells. [[FIGURE]] In chup1 gl1 plants, chloroplasts aggregated at the bottoms or anticlinal sides of the cells depending on the light conditions (Figure 7A; see Supplemental Figure 5A online) (CITATION). Despite this abnormal chloroplast positioning, cylindrical palisade cells developed normally in B30/R70 (Figure 7B; see Supplemental Figure 5B online). Taken together, this evidence shows that the development of cylindrical cells was independent of the position of the chloroplasts. It has previously been reported that NON-PHOTOTROPIC HYPOCOTYL3 (NPH3) and PHYTOCHROME KINASE SUBSTRATE (PKS) family proteins function in the phototropic and leaf flattening responses downstream of phototropins (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To address whether those factors are involved in the palisade cell response, the palisade cells of the nph3 single, pks1 pks2 pks4 triple, and nph3 pks1 pks2 pks4 quadruple mutants were observed. The measurement of palisade cell sizes revealed that these mutants normally developed cylindrical palisade cells under B30/R70 light (Figure 8; see Supplemental Figure 6 online). The above-mentioned factors were therefore not involved in the palisade cell response. [[FIGURE]] The blue light photoreceptor PHOT2 was found to promote the development of cylindrical palisade cells in a tissue-autonomous manner. However, the molecular mechanism for this response remains unclear. Phototropism is caused by the differential cell growth between the lit and shaded sides of a cell or tissue. Nevertheless, factors such as NPH3 and PKS proteins, which were involved in phototropism, were not required for the present response. Hence, PHOT2 might regulate the palisade cell growth by a different mechanism. In this respect, it will be worth testing whether the plant hormone auxin, which is known to be involved in phototropism, participates in this response.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana mutants and transgenic plants were used in this study. The Columbia accession was used as the wild type. The phot1-5 gl1-1 (CITATION), phot2-1 gl1-1 (CITATION), and phot1-5 phot2-1 gl1-1 (CITATION) mutant plants were crossed with the wild type to obtain respective mutants in the wild-type background. The gl1-1 (CITATION), phot1-5 phot2-2 gl1-1 (CITATION), jac1-1 gl1-1 (CITATION), chup1-2 gl1-1 (CITATION), nph3-6 (CITATION), pks1-1 pks2-1 pks4-1 (CITATION), and nph3-6 pks1-1 pks2-1 pks4-1 (CITATION) mutants are in the Columbia background. The Pro35S:P2CG plants are in the phot1-5 phot2-2 gl1-1 background (CITATION). The seeds were sown on rockwool moistened with 0.5% (v/v) Hyponex solution (Hyponex) and kept at 4°C in darkness for 3 d (CITATION). The seedlings were then placed under continuous white light from fluorescent tubes (70 μmol m−2 s−1) at 22°C and grown for 7 d before the light treatments (CITATION). Plants were then treated with monochromatic red (peak at 660 nm) and/or blue (peak at 470 nm) light from light-emitting diodes (IS-Series; CCS) to observe light responses. Leaves were numbered from the first rosette leaf that emerged after the cotyledons. After the light treatment, the blades of the fourth rosette leaves were detached from the plants and fixed overnight in formaldehyde acetic acid solution at 4°C (CITATION). To determine the cell sizes and chloroplast positions, leaf samples were dehydrated in an ethanol series on ice. The ethanol was then replaced with propylene oxide in an ethanol/propylene oxide series at room temperature. Finally, the samples were embedded in Spurr’s resin (Polysciences) (CITATION), from which 1-μm-thick sections were sliced with a glass knife on an ultramicrotome (UCT-GA-D/E-1/00; Leica). The sections were stained with 0.1% toluidine blue solution (CITATION) before observation under a microscope (BX51; Olympus). Seven to 10 subepidermal palisade cells inside a small central region of either the right or left half of the leaf blade were observed. The cell height in the anticlinal direction and the cell width in the periclinal direction were determined in the sections with the aid of ImageJ image analysis software (http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/; NIH). For conventional observation of the leaves (Figures 1A and 6A and Supplemental Figure 1A online), fixed leaves were dehydrated with ethanol on ice and immediately embedded in Technovit 7100 resin (Kulzer) (CITATION). Ten-micrometer-thick sections were slicedwith a disposable blade (TC-65; Leica) on a microtome (RM2135; Leica) and then stained with 0.1% toluidine blue solution (CITATION) before observation under a microscope (BX51; Olympus). Because the rates of growth and the final sizes of leaves varied substantially depending on the light conditions, the fourth leaves were collected after different durations of the monochromatic light treatment: after 10 d in blue light, 20 d in red light, and between 15 and 18 d in combined blue and red lights. Full-length PHOT2-GFP (P2G) cDNA was cut from the 35S:PHOT2-GFP/pUC vector (CITATION) with XbaI and SmaI and ligated into the XbaI and SmaI sites in the pPZP211 transformation vector (P2G/pPZP211). CAB3 and CER6 promoter fragments cut from the pCAB-C2G/pPZP211/NP and pCER-C2G/pPZP211/NP vectors (CITATION) with SalI and PstI and inserted into the SalI and PstI sites in the pGEM-3Z vector (Promega) (ProCAB3/pGEM-3Z and ProCER6/pGEM-3Z, respectively). The CAB3 promoter fragment cut from ProCAB3/pGEM-3Z with XbaI and SpeI was inserted into the XbaI and SpeI sites of the P2G/pPZP211 vector to give the ProCAB3:P2G transformation vector. A DNA fragment containing the CER6 promoter cut from ProCER6/pGEM-3Z with XbaI was inserted into the XbaI sites of the P2G/pPZP211 vector to give the ProCER6:P2G transformation vector. The phot1-5 phot2-1 mutant was transformed with ProPHOT2:P2G (CITATION), ProCAB3:P2G, or ProCER6:P2G by the floral dip method (Clough and Bent, 1998). Kanamycin-resistant (50 mg L−1) plants were selected on Murashige and Skoog agar and the T3 homogenous lines were used for all experiments. Fluorescence from GFP-tagged proteins and chlorophyll was observed under a confocal laser scanning microscope (LSM510; Zeiss). The fourth leaves were collected from the plants and vacuum-infiltrated in water. For transverse observation, leaves were sliced with vibratome sectioning (Microslicer DTK-1000; Dosaka EM) as described previously (CITATION). Green fluorescence from GFP was observed with a 500- to 530-nm filter set with 488-nm excitation, and red fluorescence from chlorophyll was observed with a >560-nm cutoff filter with 543-nm excitation. The images were false-colored to reflect actual colors of GFP (green) and chlorophyll (red) fluorescence.They were then overlaid electronically. Immunoblot analysis was performed essentially as described previously (CITATION). Fifty micrograms of total crude proteins were prepared from the leaf blades of plants grown under B30/R70 or 70 μmol m−2 s−1 white light for indicated periods and then subjected to 7.5% SDS-PAGE. The blots were probed with anti-PHOT1 (CITATION) and anti-PHOT2 (CITATION) polyclonal antibodies. To examine the avoidance response, plants grown under a 16-h-day/8-h-night cycle for 3 weeks were adapted in darkness at 23°C for 12 h before being treated with 50 μmol m−2 s−1 blue light for 2 h. Chloroplast distribution was observed under a laser scanning microscope (FV300; Olympus) in subepidermal palisade cells of the fourth leaves, essentially as described previously (CITATION). The leaf flattening response was observed in the fourth leaves collected from plants that were treated with B30/R70 light for 15 d or with monochromatic red light at 100 μmol m−2 s−1 for 21 d. The leaves were embedded in 5% low-melting-point agarose to prepare transverse sections with a razor blade across the approximate center of the leaf blade. Photographs of the sections were taken with a stereomicroscope (MZFL; Leica) and measured with ImageJ (http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/; NIH). The ratio of the straight-line distance between the two edges of the leaf to the actual leaf width along the curved surface was then determined (see Supplemental Figure 3B online). Photosynthetic CO2 fixation was determined essentially as described (CITATION). Gas exchange was measured in the fifth leaves under dark and 600 μmol m−2 s−1 white light conditions. To estimate the photosynthetic CO2 assimilation rate, differences in gas exchange characteristics between the dark and light conditions were determined and then expressed on the basis of the leaf blade area. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL database under the following accession numbers: At1g29910 (CAB3), At1g68530 (CER6), At3g25690 (CHUP1), At3g27920 (GL1), At1g75100 (JAC1), At5g64330 (NPH3), At2g02950 (PKS1), At1g14280 (PKS2), At5g04190 (PKS4), At3g45780 (PHOT1), and At5g58140 (PHOT2). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Palisade Cell Development under Weak and Strong White Light. Supplemental Figure 2. Analysis of P2G Expression in Transverse Sections. Supplemental Figure 3. The Leaf Flattening Response. Supplemental Figure 4. Analysis of the Pro35S:P2CG Transgenic Plants. Supplemental Figure 5. Promotion of the Development of Cylindrical Palisade Cells in jac1 gl1 and chup1 gl1. Supplemental Figure 6. Heights and Widths of Palisade Cells in nph3, pks1 pks2 pks4, and nph3 pks1 pks2 pks4. Supplemental Figure 7. Net CO2 Assimilation Rate in Leaves of the Wild Type and phot1 phot2.
