!~ABS~! Retrograde plastid-to-nucleus signaling tightly controls and coordinates the nuclear and plastid gene expression that is required for plastid biogenesis and chloroplast activity. As chloroplasts act as sensors of environmental changes, plastid-derived signaling also modulates stress responses of plants by transferring stress-related signals and altering nuclear gene expression. Various mutant screens have been undertaken to identify constituents of plastid signaling pathways. Almost all mutations identified in these screens target plastid-specific but not extraplastidic functions. They have been suggested to define either genuine constituents of retrograde signaling pathways or components required for the synthesis of plastid signals. Here we report the characterization of the constitutive activator of AAA-ATPase (caa33) mutant, which reveals another way of how mutations that affect plastid functions may modulate retrograde plastid signaling. caa33 disturbs a plastid-specific function by impeding plastid division, and thereby perturbing plastid homeostasis. This results in preconditioning plants by activating the expression of stress genes, enhancing pathogen resistance and attenuating the capacity of the plant to respond to plastid signals. Our study reveals an intimate link between chloroplast activity and the susceptibility of the plant to stress, and emphasizes the need to consider the possible impact of preconditioning on retrograde plastid-to-nucleus signaling.
!~RES~! The flu AAA:LUC+ caa33 mutant was found in a screen for mutants that show constitutively high expression of the 1O2-responsive AAA-ATPase (At3g28580) and a AAA-ATPase promoter-LUCIFERASE reporter gene (Baruah et al., 2009a,b). The caa33 mutant was backcrossed to the original flu AAA:LUC+ line. The F2 segregation analysis of this cross verified that a single recessive mutation causes the caa phenotype (CITATION). flu AAA:LUC+ caa33 displayed a very high luciferase activity in 10-day-old seedlings, as well as in 21-day-old rosette plants grown under continuous light (Figure 1a). In 10-day-old seedlings, the luciferase activity was predominantly confined to cotyledons (Figure 1a) (CITATION). Transcript levels of both the endogenous AAA-ATPase (AAA) gene and the LUCIFERASE reporter gene (LUC) were constitutively upregulated (Figure 1b), demonstrating that caa33 acts in trans. Seedlings of flu AAA:LUC+ caa33 exhibited reduced size and a pale green leaf color (Figures 1a and S1). The growth defect of flu AAA:LUC+ caa33 became even more obvious in older plants (Figure 1a). The chlorophyll content of flu AAA:LUC+ caa33 at different stages of seedling development was lower than in the wild type (Figure S1b). It could not be restored to wild-type level by growing seedlings on MS media supplemented with 0.5% sucrose (Figure S1c) or under low light (10 μmol m−2 sec−1) (Figure S4a). [[FIGURE]] The screen for caa mutations in the flu parental line was based on the constitutive expression of the 1O2-responsive AAA-ATPase gene in the absence of enhanced 1O2 production. Following a shift from dark to light, expression of the endogenous AAA-ATPase and the AAA:LUC+ reporter gene in the flu mutant is strongly upregulated, and the transcripts of these genes reach high levels that exceed those in the flu caa33 mutant prior to re-illumination (Figure S2a). After shifting light-grown flu caa33 seedlings to the dark for 8 h, their Pchlide reached a fivefold higher level than in wild-type controls (Figure S2b). During the re-illumination, the generation of 1O2 in these mutant seedlings triggered a further strong upregulation of AAA-ATPase and AAA:LUC+ expression (Figure S2a). Hence, caa33 does not perturb 1O2-mediated signaling. This conclusion was confirmed by analyzing AAA-ATPase expression in EX1- and EX2-deficient seedlings. The plastid proteins EX1 and EX2 are required for the transfer of 1O2-dependent signals from the plastid to the nucleus, and for the upregulation of 1O2-responsive genes. If the constitutive upregulation of AAA-ATPase in caa33 occurs via a different signaling pathway, the inactivation of EX1 or EX2 should not interfere with the expression of AAA-ATPase. The ex1 ex2 mutations were introduced into the flu caa33 background by crossing flu ex1 ex2 with flu caa33. Homozygous flu caa33 ex1 ex2 quadruple mutants were selected from the segregating F2 population of this cross. In ex1 ex2 double mutants normal plastid differentiation during seedling development occurred only when immature seeds were allowed to develop in the dark (CITATION). Hence, for the subsequent analysis of the quadruple mutant only seeds from siliques that had been kept in the dark were used (CITATION). Seedlings were grown for 5 days under continuous light before the visible phenotype and transcript level of the AAA-ATPase gene were scored. Seedlings of the flu ex1 ex2 mutant and flu were indistinguishable, whereas flu caa33 and flu caa33 ex1 ex2 displayed a pale-green phenotype (Figure S3). Transcripts of AAA-ATPase reached between six- and sevenfold higher levels in flu caa33 and flu caa33 ex1 ex2 than in flu and flu ex1 ex2 (Figure 2), indicating that constitutive upregulation of AAA-ATPase expression in flu caa33 was retained in the absence of EX1 and EX2. [[FIGURE]] The major consequences of the generation of 1O2 in the flu mutant after a shift from dark to light are rapid changes in nuclear gene expression followed by growth inhibition and cell death (CITATION; CITATION). The constitutive activation of the 1O2-responsive AAA-ATPase gene (Figure 1b) and growth inhibition of flu AAA:LUC+ caa33 (Figures 1a and S1a) suggested that cell death might also be constitutively activated in the flu AAA:LUC+ caa33 mutant. The onset of cell death was analyzed in seedlings grown under continuous light. In cotyledons of 5-day-old flu AAA:LUC+ caa33 mutant seedlings only a few dead cells could be detected by Trypan blue (TB) staining (Figure S1d). In 10-day-old seedlings the number of dead cells in cotyledons strongly increased (Figure 1c). In 21-day-old flu AAA:LUC+ caa33 plants a similar pattern of dead cells could be seen in rosette leaves as in cotyledons of 10-day-old seedlings (Figure S1d). The results of TB staining were confirmed by treating seedlings with propidium iodine (PI) (Figure 1c). PI is excluded from intact cells but penetrates dying or dead cells and intercalates double-stranded nucleic acids (CITATION). Similar results were obtained after flu AAA:LUC+ caa33 was first backcrossed twice with Col-0 and homozygous caa33 mutants (Col-0) lacking the flu mutation were analyzed. The induction of cell death may result from plants being exposed to excess excitation energy (CITATION). However, in caa33 mutants the appearance of cell death and other stress responses, such as the constitutive activation of the 1O2-responsive AAA-ATPase gene (Figure 1b) and reduced growth (Figure 1a), already occur under moderate light conditions (90 μmol m−2 sec−1). To analyze the possible light-intensity dependency of these stress responses, seedlings were grown under continuous low light levels (10 μmol m−2 sec−1) for 13 days, when seedlings reach a similar developmental stage as 10-day-old seedlings grown under 90 μmol m−2 sec−1 (compare Figures S4a and 1a). Cell death was strongly suppressed in seedlings grown under low light levels, which contained only a few randomly distributed dead cells (Figure S4a). A comparable suppression of the growth-inhibition phenotype was observed (compare Figures S1a and S4b). Similarly, the AAA-ATPase gene, but also other genes such as BAP1 and ZAT12, was expressed to a much lower extent in caa33 grown for 13 days under low light levels (compare Figures 1b and S4c). Collectively, these results suggest that the initiation of spontaneous cell death, the constitutive activation of AAA-ATPase and the growth inhibition in caa33 are light-intensity dependent, and increase with higher light intensities. The mutated gene causing the constitutive activation of the AAA:LUC+ reporter gene in the flu AAA:LUC+ caa33 line was identified by map-based cloning using SSLP and CAPS polymorphic markers. The homozygous flu AAA:LUC+ caa33 mutant was backcrossed with flu in the Ler ecotype. From the F2 mapping population of this cross, homozygous flu AAA:LUC+ caa33 seedlings were selected that showed strong luciferase activity co-segregating with a reduced size and a pale green leaf color (Figure 1a). A bulk segregant analysis (CITATION) was used to determine the approximate chromosomal position of the caa33 mutation. PCR analysis of bulk DNA originating from 86 F2 recombinant flu AAA:LUC+ caa33 plants established a genetic linkage for the K20J1 and MAC9 polymorphic markers located on the lower arm of chromosome V (Figure S5). A total of 763 F2flu AAA:LUC+ caa33 plants of the segregating mapping population were analyzed for genetic linkage to polymorphic markers localized in the region between the K20J1 and MAC9 markers. caa33 was localized in an 80-kb region covered by two BAC clones, K7B16 and K3K7, which carry 23 open reading frames (Figure 3a). Three of these genes were predicted to encode chloroplast proteins. As the pale-green phenotype of flu AAA:LUC+ caa33, linked to the constitutive luciferase activity, is probably caused by an impairment of chloroplast activity, genes predicted to encode chloroplast proteins were considered to be prime candidates for the caa33 mutation. In one of these genes, At5g51020, a single point mutation at position 92 after the predicted start codon was detected that resulted in an amino acid exchange from Gly to Asp at position 31 (Figure 3b). Gly31 is located in the N-terminal hydrophobic region of the predicted protein that constitutes a putative trans-membrane domain (Figure S6). Previously, a mutant with aberrant At5g51020 function had been identified during a T-DNA library screen for plants with an altered leaf lamina that was named crumpled leaf (crl; CITATION). Hence, caa33 represents a second, ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS) mutagenesis-derived allele of crl named crl-2. [[FIGURE]] To confirm that the mutation in the CRL gene was responsible for constitutive luciferase expression and the morphological characteristics of caa33, two approaches were used. First, an allelism test was performed. crl and flu caa33 were crossed and F1 plants of this cross were analyzed. They closely resembled the parental flu caa33 plants, except that they were slightly paler (Figure 3c). Second, a plasmid containing the coding region of At5g51020 under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter (35S:CRL) was introduced into flu caa33 (Figure 3d–g). Complemented flu caa33 plants were phenotypically indistinguishable from flu, reverting the reduced size and pale phenotype of flu caa33 (Figure 3d). Transcripts of the AAA-ATPase gene (AAA) reached similar low levels in the T3 complementing line and in flu (Figure 3g), very much in contrast to the transcript level of this gene in flu caa33. The complemented line also no longer showed a defect in chloroplast division as seen in flu caa33 (Figure 3f; see below). TB staining of the complemented T3 line demonstrated that spontaneous cell death in flu caa33 was no longer detectable (Figure 3e). Hence, constitutive AAA-ATPase expression, stunted growth, reduced Chl content, disturbed chloroplast division and spontaneous cell deaths in caa33 are caused by the mutation of a single gene, CRL. The CRL protein forms part of the outer envelope membrane of plastids (Figure 4a) (CITATION). As shown previously, mesophyll cells of the crl mutant contain only a few, extremely enlarged chloroplasts (CITATION). Also in crl-2 caa33, plastid division was severely impaired (Figures 3f and 4b,c). Mesophyll cells of crl-2 (Col-0) contained a highly variable population of different-sized plastids, ranging from cells with approximately 12 enlarged plastids to cells with a single extremely large chloroplast (Figure 4b,c), whereas in the wild type approximately 100 chloroplasts per mesophyll cell are present (CITATION). The wide range of different plastid sizes in mesophyll cells of crl-2 suggests that in crl-2 plastids were divided unevenly, as has previously been reported for the crl mutant (CITATION). The plastid division defect in crl-2 was also observed in other cell types like guard cells (Figure 4b). The crl-2 guard cells contained only one or two plastids per cell, or were completely devoid of plastids (Figure 4b). Guard cells lacking plastids were previously reported for other plastid division mutants such as arc6 and arc12 (CITATION), and have been described in detail in crl (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To test its light dependency the plastid division phenotype was also studied in etiolated seedlings. crl-2 was crossed with a SSU-GFP transgenic line in a flu background (CITATION). flu crl-2 SSU-GFP plants were grown on MS media in the dark for 4 days and cotyledons were analyzed under a confocal microscope for GFP fluorescence and red autofluorescence of free Pchlide that overaccumulates in dark-grown flu seedlings (CITATION; CITATION). As shown in Figure 4d, mesophyll cells of dark-grown flu crl-2 SSU-GFP seedlings contain etioplasts that are significantly enlarged relative to the etioplasts of the parental flu SSU-GFP line. The loss of a functional CRL protein thus results in an impairment of plastid division also in the absence of light. In the crl-2 mutant a defect in plastid division is linked to a change in the expression of the 1O2-responsive marker gene AAA-ATPase (Figure 1b) (CITATION), growth reduction (Figure 1a) and spontaneous cell death (Figure 1c). This suggests that an impairment of plastid division by other mutations also evokes a similar pleiotropic response as crl-2. To address this question known plastid-division mutants were analyzed that either contain similar numbers of enlarged chloroplasts in mesophyll cells, such as crl-2, or are affected in chloroplast envelope proteins with a similar localization pattern as the CRL protein (CITATION). Based on these criteria, mutant lines arc6-1, ftsZ1-1 and pdv2-2 were selected (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) (Table S1). Seeds of T-DNA-tagged lines were obtained for all mutants from the SALK collection (CITATION). Homozygous T-DNA mutant lines were identified by genotyping (Table S1) and/or by microscopic identification of enlarged chloroplasts in mesophyll cells of young seedlings. Similar patterns of enlarged chloroplasts were observed in mesophyll cells of arc6-1, ftsZ1-1, pdv2-2 and crl-2 (Figure 5). [[FIGURE]] In each of these lines the initiation of cell death was analyzed by TB staining. Positive TB staining was detected in the cotyledons of 10-day-old seedlings arc6-1 and ftsZ1-1 (Figure 5c). In cotyledons of pdv2-2 only a few randomly distributed dead cells were observed. True leaves of all selected mutants displayed positive TB staining, primarily in palisade parenchyma cells (Figure 5c). Such staining was not seen in the wild type. A similar result was obtained after staining dead cells with PI (data not shown). As in crl-2, light intensity-dependent cell death initiation was also observed in the cotyledons and true leaves of arc6-1, ftsZ1-1 and pdv2-2, showing attenuated cell death under low light conditions (Figure S7). Finally, the expression of ROS marker genes was analyzed in cotyledons of chloroplast division defect mutants. Similar to crl-2, de-repression of AAA-ATPase gene expression also occurred in arc6-1, pvd2-2 and, to a lesser extent, ftsZ1-1 (Figure 5d). Another 1O2-responsive gene, BAP1, was even more de-repressed in arc6-1 and pdv2-2 than in crl-2. The general oxidative stress marker gene ZAT12 was constitutively activated in all mutant lines, with transcript levels higher in pdv2-2 and arc6-1 than in crl-2, whereas the H2O2-marker gene FER1 (At5g01600) was hardly affected in any of the mutant lines. The impairment of plastid division in crl-2 and other plastid-division mutants activates a stress response that results in the upregulation of 1O2-responsive and general oxidative stress marker genes, and in the spontaneous microlesion formation in cotyledons and true leaves. The light-intensity dependency of these stress responses may result from the reduced ability of plastid division mutants to avoid potentially harmful higher light levels by moving chloroplasts to the cell periphery and orienting them in columns parallel to the plane of the incoming light (CITATION; CITATION). Chloroplast movement is thought to alleviate photodamage of photosystem II under high light conditions (CITATION; CITATION). Enlarged chloroplasts have a reduced capacity to use light energy and to minimize photodamage under varying light conditions (CITATION). To verify this possible cause of stress responses in plastid division mutants, the avoidance response mutants phot2 and chup1 (CITATION) were grown under the same light conditions as crl-2. AAA-ATPase transcript levels in these mutants were compared with those in wild-type control seedlings. In contrast to crl-2, phot2 and chup1 seedlings did not upregulate AAA-ATPase relative to the wild type (Figure S8a), and they did not form microlesions (Figure S8b). Hence, constitutive stress responses in crl-2 do not seem to be primarily caused by the perturbed light-avoidance response of chloroplasts. The crl-2 mutation does not perturb the 1O2-dependent signaling pathway (Figures 6a,b and S2). Thus a 1O2-mediated cell death response after a shift from dark to light may be expected not only in flu but also in flu crl-2 seedlings. Surprisingly, the presence of the crl-2 mutation in flu seedlings suppresses the onset of 1O2-mediated cell death (Figure 6c). [[FIGURE]] Previously, other second-site mutations have been identified in flu that like crl-2 do not perturb 1O2-mediated signaling, but lead instead to a suppression of 1O2-mediated cell death (Baruah et al., 2009a,b; CITATION; CITATION). Suppression of 1O2-mediated cell death in caa13 flu, soldat8 flu and soldat10 flu has been attributed to a constitutive minor stress response that activates acclimation prior to the release of 1O2 after a shift from dark to light. Two criteria have been used to define such a change in stress susceptibility of the two soldat mutants and caa13: first, the constitutive upregulation of stress-responsive genes; second, an enhanced resistance against a combined low temperature/high light stress. crl-2 seedlings also upregulate the expression of stress-responsive genes, but they do not show an enhanced resistance against the combined low temperature/high light stress (CITATION). If indeed constitutive activation of acclimation suppresses 1O2-mediated cell death in crl-2/flu, an acclimatory response in crl-2 must differ from that in the other second-site mutants of flu. The cell death response pattern in crl-2 seedlings recapitulates the microlesion formation in Arabidopsis plants in response to pathogens (CITATION). The possible constitutive activation of a pathogen defense response in crl-2 was first tested by measuring the transcript levels of pathogen-related protein 1 (PR1) in 10-day-old seedlings of crl-2, flu and wild type. An enhanced expression of the pathogen defense marker gene PR1 was confined to light-grown crl-2 seedlings and to flu seedlings exposed to a shift from dark to light. In wild-type and flu seedlings grown under continuous light, PR1 transcripts were not detectable (Figure 7a). To test the possible physiological impact of stress preacclimation in crl-2, wild-type and crl-2 seedlings were spray-inoculated with virulent Pseudomonas syringae DC3000 that constitutively expresses a LUCIFERASE reporter gene (CITATION). Bacterial growth was determined after different lengths of incubation by measuring the luciferase activity in extracts of inoculated plants. In crl-2, the growth of the virulent pathogen was strongly suppressed compared with wild-type seedlings (Figure 7b). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! All experiments were performed with Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia (Col-0), if not stated differently. The flu Col-0 line used in this work was obtained by five backcrosses of flu1-1 (CITATION) in Landsberg erecta (Ler) with wild-type Col-0. Other lines used in this study were: flu AAA:LUC+ (CITATION); flu AAA:LUC+ caa33, flu caa33 and caa33, obtained by three backcrosses of flu AAA:LUC+ caa33 with flu Col-0 and Col-0, respectively; crl, kindly provided by Dr Yasushi Yoshioka, Riken Institute, Japan; phot2 and chup1, kindly provided by Dr Masamitsu Wada, National Institute for Basic Biology, Okazaki, Japan; and arc6-1 (N286), ftsZ1-1 (SALK_073878), pdv2-2 (SAIL_875_E10), ex1 (SALK_002088) and ex2 (SALK_012127). The sequences of the primers used for genotyping the mutant lines are listed in Table S1. The primers used to identify homozygous ex1 ex2 double mutants have already been described by CITATION. Seeds were either surface sterilized and grown on Murashige and Skoog medium (without sucrose), including vitamins, 2-(N-morpholino)ethanesulfonic acid (MES) buffer (M0255; Duchefa, http://www.duchefa.com) and 0.8% (w/v) agar (Sigma-Aldrich, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com) at 20°C in continuous light (80–100 μmol m−2 sec−1) or, for the cultivation of mature plants, sown on soil (Klasmann Substrat 2; Klasmann-Deilmann, http://www.klasmann-deilmann.com) and grown for 20 days under the same conditions. Luciferase imaging in plants was performed as described previously (CITATION). A segregating F2 mapping population was generated from a cross of flu AAA:LUC+ caa33 in Col-0 with flu AAA:LUC+ in Ler. Out of 3000 F2 plants, homozygous flu AAA:LUC+ caa33 mutants were selected based on the high constitutive luciferase expression in continuous light. The CAA33 locus was mapped using CAPS (cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence) or SSLP (simple sequence length polymorphism) markers listed in ‘The Arabidopsis Information Resource database’ (TAIR, http://www.arabidopsis.org). Additional markers used for mapping were designed based on the collection of predicted Arabidopsis single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and small insertions/deletions in the publicly available Col-0 and Ler sequences generated by Monsanto (http://www.arabidopsis.org/Cereon) and are provided in Table S2. For complementation, the coding region of the CRL gene in pSK1 under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter (p35S::CRL, kindly provided by Prof. Yasushi Yoshioka, Nagoya University, Japan) was introduced into flu caa33 via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation, as described by CITATION. Primer information and details are described in CITATION. Positive transformants were selected on hygromycin-containing media. For pigment analysis of seedlings approximately 20 mg fresh weight per sample was harvested. The plant material was immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen and total pigment extracted in 1 ml of 96% ethanol. The absorbance of light by pigments in the supernatant was measured at 663, 645 and 480 nm. The total chlorophyll content was calculated as described by CITATION. The green fluorescence of GFP and the red fluorescence of chlorophyll were monitored using a confocal laser scanning microscope (CLSM) (TCS-NT; Leica Microsystems, http://www.leica-microsystems.com with Kr/Ar laser excitation. GFP and chlorophyll fluorescence were induced at an excitation wavelength of 488 nm. GFP and chlorophyll were detected at emission wavelengths of 507–520 nm and 620–700 nm, respectively. tcs-nt 1.6.587 (Leica Microsystems) was used for image acquisition and processing. For measurements of plastid size, the sections of mesophyll cells in cotyledons and leaves were digitally scanned by using a confocal laser scanning microscope (Leica Microsystems). Plastid size measurements were performed for three independently selected areas. image (tcs-nt v1.6.587; Leica Microsystems) was used to trace plastid outlines and to determine the diameter of each plastid. The absence or presence of cell death was analyzed using 10-day-old wild-type and caa33 seedlings grown under continuous light (90 μmol m−2 sec−1). To identify the onset of cell death, seedlings were incubated with 50 μm of PI (Molecular Probes, now Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com) diluted with water. After removing the excess of dye with water, samples were observed under the CLSM. The DNA and PI complexes in cells undergoing cell death were visualized with the 561 DPSS and the emission was captured using 613–630-nm bandpass filter. Trypan blue staining of seedlings was performed as previously described (CITATION). Total RNA was extracted from seedlings by using an RNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen, http://www.qiagen.com). cDNA was synthesized from 0.6 μg of RNA, treated with DNase (Promega, http://www.promega.com) by using random primers (Promega) and Improm II reverse transcriptase (Promega) following the manufacturer’s instructions. RT-PCR was performed with equal quantities of cDNAs by using the GeneAmp® PCR system 9700 (Applied Biosystems, http://www.appliedbiosystems.com). qRT-PCR was performed as described previously (CITATION). AAA-ATPase was selected as an early singlet-oxygen responsive gene (GEO accession number for microarray data, GSE10509; http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE10509). The sequences of the primers used for quantitative RT-PCR are listed in Table S3. To analyze the stress susceptibility of plants, 10-day-old wild-type and caa33 seedlings were challenged with 5 × 108 cfu ml−1 of luxCDA- and BE-tagged virulent P. syringae pv. tomato DC3000 (Pst DC3000) (CITATION). The relative luminescence of bacteria of individual seedlings following d-luciferin (2 mm) treatment was determined using a luminescence reader (Modulus™ II Reader; Turner BioSystems, now Promega).
