!~ABS~! The shoot and root apical meristems (SAM and RAM) formed during embryogenesis are crucial for postembryonic plant development. We report the identification of POPCORN (PCN), a gene required for embryo development and meristem organization in Arabidopsis thaliana. Map-based cloning revealed that PCN encodes a WD-40 protein expressed both during embryo development and postembryonically in the SAM and RAM. The two pcn alleles identified in this study are temperature sensitive, showing defective embryo development when grown at 22°C that is rescued when grown at 29°C. In pcn mutants, meristem-specific expression of WUSCHEL (WUS), CLAVATA3, and WUSCHEL-RELATED HOMEOBOX5 is not maintained; SHOOTMERISTEMLESS, BODENLOS (BDL) and MONOPTEROS (MP) are misexpressed. Several findings link PCN to auxin signaling and meristem function: ectopic expression of DR5rev:green fluorescent protein (GFP), pBDL:BDL-GFP, and pMP:MP-β-glucuronidase in the meristem; altered polarity and expression of pPIN1:PIN1-GFP in the apical domain of the developing embryo; and resistance to auxin in the pcn mutants. The bdl mutation rescued embryo lethality of pcn, suggesting that improper auxin response is involved in pcn defects. Furthermore, WUS, PINFORMED1, PINOID, and TOPLESS are dosage sensitive in pcn, suggesting functional interaction. Together, our results suggest that PCN functions in the auxin pathway, integrating auxin signaling in the organization and maintenance of the SAM and RAM.
!~RES~! We have determined global gene expression during embryo development in Arabidopsis (CITATION). These data sets provide a resource for further genetic interrogation. Genetic screens and targeted reverse genetic approaches have been successful in identifying key genes in Arabidopsis embryo development. To identify genes that are required for Arabidopsis embryogenesis, we analyzed T-DNA lines with insertions in selected candidate genes that are specifically or differentially expressed during zygote to globular stages of embryo development based on our global gene expression data sets (CITATION). One of the lines from this screen showed early embryo lethality among the segregating embryos with a phenotype resembling popped maize (Zea mays), which we named popcorn (pcn). The pcn mutation segregated as a single, recessive allele. However, molecular analysis revealed that this T-DNA insertion was not linked to the mutant embryo phenotype. We therefore used a map-based cloning approach to isolate the PCN gene. A tight linkage was observed with cleaved amplified polymorphic sequences (CAPS) markers at the genomic positions 4,144,848 (SspI enzyme digestion) and 4,369,443 (RsaI enzyme digestion) with no recombination observed in the analysis of 1340 chromosomes (670 plants). The strong globular stage defects in pcn mutant suggest that the expression of gene(s) in this locus is likely critical for embryo patterning and development. We reasoned that the expressed genes in this genomic region would likely include PCN. The 224-kb region between 4,144,848 and 4,369,443 on chromosome 4 contains 53 genes of which 44 encode transposable elements. Of the remaining nine loci, five are of unknown function and the other four are annotated as F-box (At4g07400), WD-40 (At4g07410), PQ loop repeat (At4g07390), and GTP binding (At4g07524). Because TPL is also a WD-40 repeat–containing protein that is critical for embryo patterning that involves specification of the apical-basal polarity and cotyledon formation (CITATION), we predicted that At4g07410 may be associated with the defective phenotype. At4g07410 also had the highest expression level among the 53 genes in the deduced 224-kb chromosome 4 region in our microarray data for wild-type globular embryos (CITATION). Sequencing of candidate genes in the mapped region of pcn identified a 35-bp deletion overlapping the 5th exon and 5th intron of At4g07410 genic region that would result in a premature stop codon of the predicted open reading frame (Figure 1A). At4g07410 encodes an 815–amino acid protein containing eight WD-40 repeats as determined by InterProScan (CITATION), six at the N terminus and two at the C terminus (Figure 1B). The premature stop codon in pcn-1 was deduced to produce a truncated protein of 240 amino acids. In Arabidopsis, PCN, a single-copy gene, shares 69% identity with At1g27470 at the amino acid level. Putative homologs of PCN are also present in other plant genera (Oryza, Sorghum, Populus, Ricinus, and Vitis), yeast, zebra fish, and humans (see Supplemental Figure 1 and Supplemental Data Set 1 online). In none of these cases is any function known. [[FIGURE]] Using the At4g07410 sequence information, we screened for additional T-DNA insertional lines at this locus and identified a second allele of PCN, pcn-2 (Salk_022607), with an insertion in the 8th exon (Figure 1A). The pcn-2/+ plants segregated defective embryos similar in mutant phenotype to those observed in pcn-1. Heterozygous pcn-1/+ or pcn-2/+ plants did not exhibit any developmental defects other than producing 25% arrested and 75% normal embryos (n = 1028 for pcn-1, n = 1120 for pcn-2), indicating that pcn-1 and pcn-2 mutations are recessive. To confirm that the mutant embryo phenotypes observed in pcn-1 and pcn-2 are caused by the lesions in the At4g07410 locus, we introduced two constructs into heterozygous mutant pcn-1 and pcn-2 plants. The first construct contained the At4g07410 genomic fragment, and the second was the PCN cDNA (representing the reading frame of 815 amino acids) under the control of the putative PCN promoter. Transformation of both constructs fully complemented the homozygous pcn mutant embryo phenotype. These observations confirmed that PCN, a WD-40 repeat–containing protein, is required for embryo development in Arabidopsis. Because the other PCN homolog, At1g27470, is expressed during embryo development in Arabidopsis (CITATION), we sought to assess any functional similarity of At1g27470 with PCN. No knockout lines for this gene are currently available in SALK or other collections. To test if this gene can complement pcn, we generated a gene construct using the At1g27470 protein coding sequence and expressed it under the control of PCN promoter (to achieve expression in the PCN domain) and introduced this construct into the pcn background. The rationale for this approach is that if At1g27470 shares functional domains in its protein with PCN, complementation (partial or full) of embryo phenotype is expected. However, our transgenic experiments did not show any complementation, suggesting that At1g27470 does not share similar functions with PCN in Arabidopsis. Together, these results confirm that PCN is a single-copy putative WD-40 domain–encoding gene essential for embryo development in Arabidopsis. We investigated the developmental aspects of pcn using the pcn-1 allele (unless otherwise specified). Homozygous pcn seeds obtained from a pcn/+ mother plant that was grown at 22°C did not germinate. However, when cultured in vitro with auxin and cytokinin (CITATION), these mutant embryos were able to form calli from which fertile plants could be regenerated. These homozygous pcn plants upon flowering produced embryos that were all defective. As this provided an advantage over the segregating heterozygote, we have used these nonsegregating homozygous lines for more detailed developmental studies (see Supplemental Table 1A online; Figures 2 and 3). [[FIGURE]] During wild-type embryogenesis, the zygote elongates and divides asymmetrically, generating a smaller apical and a larger basal cell (Figures 3A and 3K). The first two divisions of the apical cell occur longitudinally, giving rise to the four-cell embryo proper (Figures 3C and 3M), followed by a round of horizontal divisions to establish the eight-cell embryo. Tangential divisions separate the protoderm from the inner cells at the dermatogen stage. Later, the globular embryo initiates two cotyledonary primordia and a SAM. The descendants of the basal cell divide horizontally to generate a column of cells, the extraembryonic suspensor. Only the uppermost cell of the basal lineage, the hypophysis, contributes to the embryo. After a transverse division, the apical daughter cell of the hypophysis, the lens-shaped cell, gives rise to the QC of the root meristem, whereas the basal daughter cell forms the columella stem cells (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Development of pcn embryos was similar to the wild type until the two-cell embryo stage (Figures 3A and 3C versus Figures 3K and 3M). Subsequently, with delayed apical cell divisions, more suspensor cells were observed when compared with the wild type (Figures 3L to 3V). Occasionally, abnormal vertical divisions in suspensor cells (~2%) (Figure 3P), and octant embryo proper with twice the number of cells than in the wild type were also observed in pcn (< 5%) (Figures 3Q and 3R). From the dermatogen stage and onwards, the pcn embryo proper displayed several defects (Figures 3Q to 3Z). Abnormal and delayed divisions were observed in the apical domain (Figures 3P to 3R), resulting in four kinds of phenotypes (Figures 2E to 2M): No cotyledon (36.4% in pcn-1; 33.2% in pcn-2) (Figures 2E to 2G), one cotyledon (29.8% in pcn-1; 31.3% in pcn-2) (Figures 2H and 2I), unequal splayed two cotyledons (31% in pcn-1; 32.4 in% pcn-2), (Figures 2J to 2L) and three cotyledons (2.9% in pcn-1; 3.2% in pcn-2) (Figure 2M; see Supplemental Table 1A online). Since pcn-1 embryos displayed stronger defects than pcn-2, further analysis was done with pcn-1. The SAM region in the majority of arrested embryos was enlarged, and the cotyledons lacked bilateral symmetry and appeared more radialized (Figures 2I to 2M). In the basal domain of pcn embryos, the lens-shaped cell derivatives were smaller than in the wild type (Figures 3I, 3J, 3Y, and 3Z), and the lower hypophyseal cell derivatives divided less frequently, resulting in aberrant columella organization (Figures 3J and 3Y). Together, the results show that loss of PCN activity affects the development of both the embryo proper and the suspensor. While testing the growth of pcn plants at different temperatures, we noticed that the defects in pcn embryo development were strongly alleviated after shifting the regenerated homozygous plants from 22 to 29°C at the onset of bolting. The majority of the pcn embryos produced at 29°C had two wild-type-like cotyledons (83%; see Supplemental Table 1A online) and developed into normal mature embryos. The remaining embryos had no cotyledon (<5%), one cotyledon (10%), and three cotyledons (2%) (see Supplemental Table 1A online). Unlike seeds from pcn homozygous plants grown at 22°C, 95% of pcn seeds produced at 29°C were able to germinate on 0.5× Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium without the requirement of exogenous hormones and produced fertile plants (see Supplemental Table 1B online; Figure 4B). We took advantage of the temperature sensitivity characteristic of this mutant and propagated pcn and genetic combinations involving pcn by first growing the plants at 22°C and then shifting them to 29°C at bolting unless specified otherwise. [[FIGURE]] To determine at which embryo stage PCN function is essential, pcn plants were grown at 22°C, and flower buds were first emasculated and then hand-pollinated with pcn pollen. A few of the developing siliques were dissected to determine the developmental stage of the embryos. The plants were then shifted to 29°C to complete seed development. Mature seeds were either dissected to assess the embryo phenotypes or geminated on 0.5× MS medium. Our results from this study showed that the shift to 29°C must occur at or prior to the globular stage in order to rescue the pcn embryo development (see Supplemental Table 1B online). A shift in temperature postglobular stage of embryo development could not suppress embryo lethality. These observations further suggest that PCN function is required already for early phases of embryo development in Arabidopsis. To address the postembryonic functions of PCN, 29°C temperature-rescued pcn mutant seeds were germinated and plant development was analyzed at 22°C growth conditions. pcn mutant rosettes were smaller with narrower leaf shape (Figure 4B) and abnormal vein patterns (Figure 4D) compared with the wild type (Figures 4A and 4C). Flowering pcn plants were shorter and bushier than the wild type. Examination of pcn roots revealed abnormal division patterns in the QC and columella cells of the root cap, and root growth was retarded compared with the wild type (Figures 4F to 4H). Lugol staining for starch granules as a marker for columella cell differentiation revealed defects in the root cap cells in addition to the RAM defects observed in pcn (Figure 4H). Furthermore, the expression of the QC marker WOX5 was expanded in pcn roots (Figures 6N and 6O). These observations suggest that PCN function is also required after germination for several processes associated with meristems both in root and shoot development. To study PCN expression and subcellular localization in detail, two different translational fusions of PCN and green fluorescent protein (GFP) coding regions were expressed under the control of 1.9-kb PCN putative promoter region, one with PCN cDNA (pPCN:cPCN-GFP) and the other with PCN genomic fragment (containing introns; gPCN-GFP) (Figure 5). Independent transgenic lines of both constructs displayed identical expression patterns. For brevity, we will focus on results from the gPCN-GFP reporter. Our earlier study on global gene expression patterns during Arabidopsis embryo development (CITATION) showed that gPCN-GFP is expressed in the ovule but not in the pollen and, after fertilization, is expressed in the zygote, suggesting maternal specificity. During early phases of embryogenesis, the gPCN-GFP signal was detected in all the cells of the embryo proper and the suspensor until the 32-cell embryo stage (Figures 5A and 5B). Subsequently, gPCN-GFP expression was not detectable in the lower suspensor cells, and by the heart stage, the signal was completely absent in the suspensor (Figures 5D and 5E) but remained detectable in the embryo proper (Figures 5E and 5F). [[FIGURE]] In seedlings, gPCN-GFP was detected in the SAM and leaf primordia (Figure 5G) but not in the hypocotyl (Figure 5H). In the root, gPCN-GFP is expressed in the root meristem (Figures 5I and 5J). gPCN-GFP is also expressed in pericycle cells, both quiescent (Figure 5K) and actively dividing (Figures 5K and 5L), that gave rise to the lateral roots and the expression continued throughout the development of lateral root primordia (Figures 5M and 5N). These results indicate that PCN is broadly expressed in the embryo proper but after germination is predominantly expressed in the SAM, RAM, and in cells capable of proliferation. To better understand the SAM defects in pcn, we investigated the expression patterns of well-characterized SAM organizing genes using whole-mount embryo in situ hybridization and reporter genes. In the wild-type shoot meristem, WUS and CLV3 expression domains mark the three apical layers of stem cells and the underlying organizing center, respectively (Figures 6A and 6G) (CITATION; CITATION). In pcn embryos, CLV3 was expressed in an enlarged domain encompassing almost the whole apex and was also ectopically expressed in the cotyledons (Figures 6H and 6I). Compared with the wild type, WUS mRNA expression had expanded into the L1 and L2 layers of the SAM and toward the inner layers of the cotyledons (Figure 6B). [[FIGURE]] Expression of STM marks SAM cells that do not enter into lateral organ formation. During wild-type embryogenesis, STM is first expressed in a band of cells around the central apical region of late globular stage embryos. During the transition to heart stage, the expression becomes restricted to the central core of the SAM (Figure 6C) (CITATION). In pcn, STM was variably expressed below the L3 layer of the SAM. In the majority of the embryos examined (30 out of 44), STM expression was detected in a large apical region of the embryo (Figure 6D). CLV1 is expressed in the L2 and L3 layers of the wild-type SAM (CITATION). In pcn, CLV1 expression was still limited to the L2 and L3 layers, but the expression domain had expanded to a slightly broader region compared with the wild type (Figures 6E and 6F). Furthermore, quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) results revealed that WUS, CLV3, CUC, and STM in the SAM are significantly upregulated in pcn embryos (see Supplemental Table 2 online). These results suggest that PCN function is required to restrict the expression of STM, WUS, and CLV genes within their respective specified boundaries in the meristem. To determine whether PCN genetically interacts with WUS, we analyzed pcn wus-1 double mutants. wus-1 embryos develop normally except for the absence of a shoot meristem in the seedlings after germination (CITATION). Double heterozygous pcn/+ wus/+ plants produced homozygous recessive pcn wus double mutant embryos at a ratio of 1:15 that did not initiate cotyledon primordia and had seeds that did not germinate, even when the mother plant was grown at 29°C. However, pcn wus-1/+ seeds germinated and produced plants with rosette leaves, albeit at a slower rate than the wild type. After bolting, however, the SAM terminated as pin-like structures with arrested lateral organ primordia and differentiation of the epidermal cells into trichomes near the SAM region, indicating haploinsufficiency for WUS in pcn background (Figures 7J to 7N). These observations indicate that wus embryos cannot complete their development unless PCN function is present. Whereas the lack of PCN can be remedied by high temperature insofar as embryo development is concerned, such a rescue requires WUS. These synergistic defects suggest partial compensatory functions for WUS and PCN during embryo and postembryonic development. [[FIGURE]] Defective cotyledon patterning in pcn embryos raised the question whether auxin response and/or auxin transport were affected in pcn embryos. To address this question, we introduced the auxin response marker DR5rev:GFP, and as a readout of polarized auxin transport machinery, pPIN1:PIN1-GFP and pPIN7:PIN7-β-glucuronidase (GUS), into the pcn mutant. At 22°C, DR5rev:GFP expression was observed throughout the embryo proper in pcn similar to the wild type up to the octant stage (Figures 8A, 8F, and 8G) (CITATION). However, from 32-cell globular stage onwards, the basal auxin maximum, which is restricted to the hypophyseal region in the wild type, expanded into the lower suspensor cells in arrested globular pcn embryos. The two auxin maxima corresponding to the two emerging cotyledon primordia in the wild type (Figures 8B to 8E) were absent in the pcn embryos that did not produce cotyledons (Figures 8I, 8J, and 8L). In pcn embryos that did form cotyledons, the auxin maxima correlated with the number of cotyledons (Figures 8M to 8P). In a few mutant embryos, several auxin maxima were also observed in the apical region of late torpedo stage embryos (Figure 8K). In contrast with DR5rev:GFP expression in the vascular procambial cells of later-stage wild-type embryos (Figure 8E), the GFP signal was discontinuous or absent in the differentiating procambial cells of pcn embryos (Figures 8K to 8P). Unlike the wild type, DR5rev:GFP was ectopically expressed in the SAM of pcn embryos (Figures 8P and 8U). Consistent with the phenotypic recovery, this ectopic DR5 expression was suppressed when pcn embryos were subjected to 29°C treatment (Figures 8U and 8V). In the RAM, the expression became restricted to the columella region similar to the wild type (Figures 8Q and 8R). These results indicate that mislocalization of auxin maxima coincides with the defective phenotypes observed in pcn mutant embryos. [[FIGURE]] In wild-type dermatogen stage embryos, PIN1-GFP is present in all the cell boundaries, whereas at the 32-cell stage, PIN1-GFP becomes restricted to the basal boundaries of subepidermal cells (Figure 9A). From late globular stage onwards, PIN1-GFP is localized in cotyledon primordia and in vascular initials as shown previously (CITATION) (Figures 9B to 9E). In pcn embryos arrested at globular stage, PIN1-GFP appeared in a broad central region of the embryo (Figures 9H and 9I), and the expression was seen in the vascular initials of the cotyledons and the hypocotyl of one cotyledon (Figure 9J) and two cotyledon embryos (Figures 9K and 9L). In contrast with the wild type, PIN1-GFP also accumulated in the SAM region of the pcn embryos with two cotyledons (Figures 9K and 9L). While the PIN1 expression profile was relatively normal (see Supplemental Table 2 online), PIN1-GFP was not distributed in a polar manner in the majority of the cells of pcn mutant embryos (Figures 9H to 9L). Since polar localized PIN1 in the wild type can be rapidly internalized to the cytosol by brefeldin A (BFA) treatment (CITATION), we used BFA treatment along with the membrane stain FM4-64 (CITATION) to examine the localization of PIN1-GFP in the cells of wild-type and pcn embryos. In the wild type, PIN1-GFP signal overlapped with the FM4-64 stain in the basal membrane of cells (Figure 9F), whereas with BFA treatment, PIN1-GFP became internalized in the cytosol (Figure 9G). However, in the pcn mutant embryos, the PIN1-GFP was internalized to the cytosol both without and with BFA treatment (Figures 9M and 9N), suggesting that pcn mutant embryos are defective in polar localization of PIN1. [[FIGURE]] PIN7 expression and localization is coordinated with PIN1 in the embryo proper to create auxin maxima in the hypophyseal cell at the 32-cell stage (CITATION). We used pPIN7:PIN7-GUS to compare its expression pattern in the pcn embryo and the wild type. In the wild type, PIN7-GUS was detected in the hypophyseal cell derivatives in the embryonic root meristem (Figures 10A and 10B) and the provascular cells in the developing hypocotyl (Figures 10A to 10C). In those pcn embryos that were arrested at early stages, the expression was present in the suspensor but absent from the hypophyseal cell derivatives of the root meristem (Figure 10F). Although the PIN7-GUS expression was present in the provascular cells of the developing pcn embryo, the signal appeared weaker and was restricted to fewer cells (Figures 10G to 10I) and was absent in the root meristem region (Figures 10H and 10I). In wild-type seedlings, PIN7-GUS was expressed in the root meristem and vascular cells of the root and cotyledons. By contrast, in pcn, the PIN7-GUS was weakly expressed in the vascular cells of the root (Figure 10J) but was absent in the root meristem and vascular cells of the cotyledons (Figures 10J and 10K). These results were consistent with the qRT-PCR analysis that showed that PIN7 was expressed 0.6-fold lower than the wild type (see Supplemental Table 2 online). Taken together, pcn mutants displayed altered PIN1 localization and PIN7 expression. [[FIGURE]] To test whether auxin response is altered in pcn mutants, we performed a lateral root induction assay by application of the auxin analog naphthalene acetic acid (NAA) (CITATION) to seedlings. In the wild type, lateral root primordia induced by 2 mg/L NAA displayed normal DR5rev:GFP expression (Figures 11A and 11B). However, in pcn, NAA induced abnormal bulges of pericycle cells with diffused expression of DR5:GFP that did not differentiate into lateral root primordia (Figures 11C to 11E). Thus, while auxin maxima displayed by DR5rev:GFP appeared in the proper position, subsequent root development required PCN activity. In an alternate assay to measure the strength of the auxin response in pcn mutants, we used the pHS:AXR3NT-GUS reporter (CITATION). In the pHS:AXR3NT-GUS construct, the GUS gene is fused to the N-terminal domains I and II of the AXR3/IAA17 and its expression is controlled by a heat shock promoter. Due to the inclusion of the degron-containing domain II of AXR3, the associated GUS is subject to degradation in an auxin-responsive manner (CITATION). As shown in Figures 11I to 11K, 11M, and 11N, the fusion protein was more stable in pcn seedlings than in the wild type as visualized by GUS, suggesting that indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) protein turnover is affected in pcn mutant. These results collectively show that PCN plays a role in auxin response pathway. [[FIGURE]] The IAA/AUX-ARF auxin module BDL/MP mediates auxin transcriptional response and together with PLT1 and PLT2 positively regulates PIN expression in root and vascular development (CITATION). In pcn, the expression domains of MP and PLT1 in the embryonic RAM were more restricted compared with the wild type (Figures 6J to 6M); also in the vascular initials of the pcn embryo, MP expression was discontinuous and ectopic in the SAM region of the torpedo embryo (Figure 6K). Thus, aberrations in the expression of MP and PLT1 were more pronounced in the pcn embryos that showed stronger developmental defects. Consistent with this observation, MP-GUS in the pcn mutant showed ectopic expression in the apical region of the embryo that included the SAM (Figures 12A4 to 12A6) and the cotyledon primordia (Figure 12A5). Furthermore, qRT-PCR showed that MP, WOX5, PLT1, PLT2, and PLT3 were significantly upregulated in pcn embryos (see Supplemental Table 2 online). These findings prompted us to investigate potential interactions between pcn and auxin mutants. [[FIGURE]] mp single mutants develop a basal stump instead of a root and produce one or two cotyledons (CITATION). In the progeny of pcn/+ mp/+ plants, we identified putative double mutants at a ratio 1:15 with a novel embryo phenotype. These double mutant embryos showed cup-like cotyledons with a narrow embryo axis compared with the wild type (Figures 12A1 and 12A2). These embryos were arrested not only at 22°C but also at 29°C, similar to the observations with double mutants of pcn and wus-1, suggesting that MP functions are required for the rescue of the pcn mutant at 29°C. The pcn mp/+ plants were small and had delayed rosette leaf and root growth, and the SAM terminated into pin-like structures (Figure 12A3) compared with pcn single mutant and mp/+ heterozygotes that flower normally. These observations suggest that PCN cooperates with MP to mediate auxin signals during embryonic and postembryonic developmental programs in Arabidopsis. BDL is considered a repressor of MP in auxin signaling during embryo development, and the bdl gain-of-function mutant resembles the mp loss of function mutant (CITATION). We investigated BDL interaction with PCN using a pcn bdl double mutant. The bdl mutant line we used was in the Columbia (Col) background and displayed abnormal horizontal divisions in the apical cell of the embryo as observed in the Landsberg erecta (Ler) background (CITATION) but at a lower frequency (5%, n = 480). In the pcn bdl double mutant in the Col background, 55% of embryos (n = 275) showed abnormal divisions at the octant stage that also include double octant phenotype (Figures 12C1 and 12C2) and tapered embryo phenotypes in later stages of development (Figures 12C3 and 12C4). Thus, during early embryo development, pcn enhanced the bdl embryo defects (Figures 12B1 to 12B3 and 12C1 to 12C4). Furthermore, the pcn bdl double mutant had fewer suspensor cells than both pcn or bdl single mutants (Figures 12B1 to 12B3 and 12C1 to 12C4). At the heart stage, pcn bdl embryos displayed a broader central zone (Figures 12C5 and 12C6) than the wild type or pcn single mutant (Figures 3I, 3J, 3X, and 3Y). However, during embryo development, the globular stage arrest, cotyledon defects, and seed abortion observed in the pcn single mutant at 22°C were suppressed by the presence of bdl in the double mutant. The pcn bdl set viable seeds at 22°C unlike the pcn single mutant that requires 29°C treatment. To examine if BDL expression is altered in pcn mutant, we introduced pBDL:BDL-GFP reporter into pcn. BDL-GFP expression was first detected in the vascular initials and the RAM of the wild-type embryos (Figures 12D1 and 12D2). However, in pcn, BDL expression was detected in the SAM region but was absent in the vascular initials and the embryonic RAM from torpedo stage onwards when grown at 22°C (Figures 12D3 to 12D6). This altered expression of BDL in pcn was restored to a normal wild-type -like pattern at 29°C, suggesting that the pcn mutant phenotype at 22°C is dependent on BDL wild-type function (Figure 12D7). Taken together, the quantitative enhancement of auxin-related defects of both mp and bdl mutants in pcn background suggests that PCN is required for gene functions overlapping with those of MP and BDL in embryogenesis. These embryonic observations are consistent with a contribution of PCN to the auxin-induced degradation of multiple auxin/IAA proteins. We performed a yeast two-hybrid (Y2H) assay to determine whether PCN physically interacts with BDL, MP, or TPL. When PCN fragments other than the C-terminal region or a full-length PCN was used as the bait, PCN showed very strong self-activation. The C-terminal fragment did not show self-activation, and it did not show any physical interaction between PCN and BDL, MP, or TPL. When we used BDL, MP, or TPL as the bait and PCN as the prey, we did not observe any physical interaction of PCN with BDL, MP, or TPL. However, qRT-PCR analyses of BDL, TPL, and MP in pcn mutant embryo revealed that BDL and TPL expression are similar to the wild type, but MP and its target genes DORNRÖSCHEN (DRN) and DORNRÖSCHEN-LIKE are significantly upregulated, 1.6-, 9.7-, and 4.7-fold, respectively, compared with the wild type (see Supplemental Table 2 online). Previous work has shown that MP binds to the DRN promoter and regulates its transcription positively (CITATION). Consistently, upregulated MP expression in pcn also increased the DRN expression in this study (see Supplemental Table 2 online). The loss-of-function mutant drn-1 shows defective embryo patterning and functional postembryonic SAM (CITATION), whereas the gain-of-function drn-D mutant shows defective SAM and upregulated expression of both WUS and CLV3 as seen in pcn (CITATION). The pcn drn-1 double mutant showed the pcn embryo phenotype. However, after rescue at 29°C and during postembryonic development, the young rosettes terminated growth with arrested SAM and radialized leaf primordia, which were not observed in the respective single mutants (Figures 12E1 to 12E3), further supporting the involvement of PCN mediated auxin signaling in meristem regulation. The absence of PCN interaction with BDL in the Y2H assay does not rule out interaction via other partner(s). Taken together, PCN may function in a multiprotein complex that includes BDL and TPL to regulate the downstream genes in the auxin pathway that includes DRN. Double mutants of pcn and pin1-1, pid-2, or tpl-1 arrested embryo development at 29°C, albeit the respective single mutants completed embryogenesis and produced viable seeds. These observations suggest that the rescue of pcn embryo lethality by elevated temperatures requires the functions of the auxin components PIN and PID and the global corepressor TPL. PIN1 promotes directional auxin efflux, and PID mediates the switch of PIN polarity. Both pin1-1 and pid-2 single mutants upon bolting form pin-like structures with an undifferentiated inflorescence meristem at the tip (Figures 7B to 7D and 7G) (CITATION; CITATION). Unlike in pcn or pin1-1/+ and pid-2/+ heterozygous plants, in pcn pin1-1/+ (Figure 7A) and pcn pid-2/+ plants (Figure 7F), inflorescence shoot meristem terminated in a pin-like structure, and lateral organ primordia were arrested (Figures 7E, 7H, and 7I). In all cases, trichomes and guard cells, which are normally restricted to leaves or leaf primordia, were found at the tip of the pin-like structure in the meristem region (Figures 7H and 7I), indicative of precocious differentiation of meristem cells. As one of its functions, TPL acts as a corepressor with BDL in a complex with MP (CITATION). tpl-1 and tpl-1/+ plants developed similar to the wild type after bolting, whereas the pcn tpl-1/+ inflorescence meristems also terminated in a pin-like inflorescence (Figures 7Q and 7R). Taken together, in the absence of PCN function, inflorescence meristem development becomes more sensitive to the gene dosage of PIN1, PID, and TPL.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana plants were grown on soil or in sterile culture on 0.5× MS medium containing MS salts. After incubation for at least 4 d at 4°C in darkness, plants were grown in growth chambers under long-day conditions (16 h light and 8 h dark; light intensity: 60 to 80 μmol m−2 s−1) at 22 or 29°C. Homozygous pcn plants and double mutants of pcn were grown at 22°C until they began to flower and then shifted to 29°C, except pcn bdl, which was grown at 22°C. Details of mutants and marker lines used in this study are listed in Supplemental Table 3 online. Prior to mapping, the pcn-1 mutant was backcrossed four times to wild-type Col-0. pcn-1/+ (BC4, Col-0) × wild-type Ler and 670 F2 plants were used for mapping. Crosses with known genetic markers indicated that PCN mapped close to the centromere of chromosome 4. Because no known genetic markers were available in this region, we designed 20 CAPS markers. Then, 87 F2 plants were assayed for these markers on the long arm close to the centromere of chromosome 4. The initial mapping was done using simple sequence repeat markers from The Arabidopsis Information Resource (http://www.Arabidopsis.org). The derived CAPS markers used for fine mapping of the pcn-1 mutation were generated based on the sequence information of Col and Ler. pPCN:PCN-GFP constructs were derived as follows: First, we used forward primer1, 5′-AACACTGCAGCGCAATCGCACCTATTTTTAATC-3′, and reverse primer1, 5′-AAAAGCGGCCGCGACGGAAGCAGAAGGAGAAGTGT-3′, to amplify the PCN promoter sequence from genomic DNA, and the PCN cDNA was amplified by PCR from a wild-type Col cDNA library using forward primer 2, 5′-AAAAGCGGCCGCATGCTCGAGTACCGTTGCAGCTC-3′, and reverse primer 2, 5′-AAAAGGATCCAGTTCCAAAAATATGTCTGTC-3′. Both promoter and cDNA PCR products were digested with NotI and then the fragments were ligated. Finally, we used the primers 5′-AAAGCGGCCGCACACTTCTCCTTCTGCTTCCGTC-3′ and 5′-AAAAGGATCCAGTTCCAAAAATATGTCTGTC-3′ to amplify pPCN:PCN using the ligated PCR product as template, which was fused to GFP. The PCN genomic sequence (At4g07410) for fusion with GFP was amplified by PCR using F28D6 BAC clone as template (forward primer, 5′-AACACTGCAGCGCAATCGCACCTATTTTTAATC-3′; reverse primer, 5′-AAAAGGATCCAGTTCCAAAAATATGTCTGTC-3′). The At1g27470 coding sequence (forward primer, 5′-ATGTTTGAGTACCGGTGCAGCTC-3′; reverse primer, 5′-TTATGTCCCGAATATATGTCTGT-3′) was cloned by PCR using wild-type Col-0 embryo cDNA library as template. The amplified cDNA and genomic DNA were gel purified and cloned into the pCR 2.1 TA vector (Invitrogen; catalog number K4500-01) and the respective inserts sequenced for confirmation. The 6.5-kb fragment containing the PCN gene (forward primer, 5′-GAGCATAATAAACATAAACATTA-3′; reverse primer, 5′-TCAAGTTCCAAAAATATGTCTGT-3′), the ligated PCN promoter with PCN cDNA, as well as the ligated PCN promoter with At1g27470 cDNA were subcloned into pRD400 (CITATION) and used to transform pcn-1/+ and pcn-2/+, respectively. The transformations of pPCN:PCN-GFP and complementation constructs into Arabidopsis were performed following the protocol described in CITATION. Genotypes of the pcn-1 and pcn-2 loci in the transgenic plants were determined by PCR. To genotype the pcn-1, PCR primers (forward primer, 5′-TCTGAGTAACTGTTTCTTCTGTTGC-3′; reverse primer, 5′- CCACTCACAAGAACTGAACACCT-3′) were used; the PCR fragment sizes are 218 bp (mutant) and 254 bp (Col wild type). To genotype pcn-2 (Salk_022607), forward primer 5′-TTCCGGATGATATACTGCCAG-3′, reverse primer 5′-CCCCAGGAAACTCTTGATACC-3′, and middle primer 5′-GCGTGGACCGCTTGCTGCAACT-3′ were used. Other primers and methods used for PCR genotyping of double mutants in this study are listed in Supplemental Table 3 online. The qRT-PCR experiment was performed in triplicate on the Applied Biosystem Step One real-time PCR system using the SYBR Green PCR master mix. Three biological replicates of globular to heart stage wild-type and pcn embryos were isolated, and total RNA samples were isolated as described in RNAqueous-micro kit (Ambion; catalog number 1927). Using the isolated total RNA, linear amplification of antisense RNAs (aRNAs) was performed as described in the MessageAmp II aRNA kit following the protocol for first-round aRNA amplification (Ambion; catalog number 1751). The respective double-stranded cDNAs were synthesized from aRNA as described in the MessageAmpTM II aRNA kit (Ambion; catalog number 1751). The concentration of the cDNA template was measured using Nanodrop 8000 (Thermo Scientific) and further normalized using tubulin (At5g12250) as reference prior to performing qRT-PCR. Gene-specific primers were designed using Primer 3 software. qRT-PCR primers and results are listed in Supplemental Table 2 online. For BFA treatment and FM4-64 staining, the wild-type and pcn embryos were isolated and treated as described earlier (CITATION). To determine the auxin response of pcn, both mutants and wild-type (Col-0) seeds were surface sterilized. These seeds were incubated at 4°C for 3 d and then were germinated on 0.5× MS for 4 d. These seedlings were transferred to 0.5× MS supplemented with 0.2 mg/L NAA. Seedling phenotypes were examined at 2 and 4 d with NAA in the medium. The response was evaluated by analyzing lateral root development as well as DR5rev:GFP expression. Both pHS:AXR3NT-GUS and pcn/pHS:AXR3NT-GUS seeds were germinated in 0.5× MS for 5 d and then heat-shocked for 2 h at 37°C and incubated at 20°C for 1 to 3 h to check the degradation of GUS (CITATION). The Y2H assay was performed as described in the ProQuest two-hybrid system with the Gateway Technology Kit protocol (Invitrogen; catalog number PQ10001-01). Genes and primers are listed in Supplemental Table 4 online. Whole-mount embryos were prepared by clearing the ovules in chloral hydrate solution (8:1:2 chloral hydrate:glycerol:water [w/v/v]) (CITATION) for 4 h. Slides were viewed under a Leica DMR compound microscope using differential interference contrast optics. Confocal laser scanning microscopy was performed using Leica SP2 and Zeiss LSM-510 microscopes. Histochemical staining for GUS activity in this study was performed following the protocol of CITATION. Lugol staining of the roots to detect starch granules was performed as described by CITATION. Whole-mount in situ hybridization was performed following the protocol of CITATION. Scanning electron microscopy was performed as described by CITATION. The FASTA sequences for At1g27470, PCN, and its putative homologs in other plant genera (Oryza, Sorghum, Populus, Ricinus, and Vitis), yeast, zebra fish, and humans were aligned using ClustalW (CITATION). The phylogram was generated using QuickTree (CITATION) and viewed in Archaeoteryx (http://www.phylosoft.org/archaeopteryx) (see Supplemental Data Set 1 and Supplemental Figure 1 online). Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: PCN (At4g07410), pcn-1 (At4g07410), pcn-2 (Salk-022607; At4g07410), At1g27470, WUS (At2g17950), CLV1 (At1g75820), CLV3 (At2g27250), DRN (At1g12980), STM (At1g62360), MP (At1g19850), BDL (At1g04550), TPL (At1g15750), PIN1 (At1g73590), PID (At2g23450), PIN7 (At1g23080), WOX5 (At3g11260), PLT1 (At3g20840), and tubulin (At5g12250). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Phylogenetic Relationship between PCN and Its Homolog in Arabidopsis and Putative Homologs from Different Eukaryotic Species. Supplemental Table 1. Temperature Shift–Dependent Recovery of pcn. Supplemental Table 2. qRT-PCR of Selected Genes That Are Involved in Embryo Patterning and Shoot/Root Meristems . Supplemental Table 3. Origins and Ecotypes of Mutants and Reporter Lines and Genotyping Methods. Supplemental Table 4. Primers Used for Yeast Two-Hybrid Assay . Supplemental Data Set 1. Text File of the Sequences and Their Alignment Used for the Phylogenetic Analysis Shown in Supplemental Figure 1.
