!~ABS~! Since the first ultrastructural investigations of sieve tubes in the early 1960s, their structure has been a matter of debate. Because sieve tube structure defines frictional interactions in the tube system, the presence of P protein obstructions shown in many transmission electron micrographs led to a discussion about the mode of phloem transport. At present, it is generally agreed that P protein agglomerations are preparation artifacts due to injury, the lumen of sieve tubes is free of obstructions, and phloem flow is driven by an osmotically generated pressure differential according to Münch’s classical hypothesis. Here, we show that the phloem contains a distinctive network of protein filaments. Stable transgenic lines expressing Arabidopsis thaliana Sieve-Element-Occlusion-Related1 (SEOR1)–yellow fluorescent protein fusions show that At SEOR1 meshworks at the margins and clots in the lumen are a general feature of living sieve tubes. Live imaging of phloem flow and flow velocity measurements in individual tubes indicate that At SEOR1 agglomerations do not markedly affect or alter flow. A transmission electron microscopy preparation protocol has been generated showing sieve tube ultrastructure of unprecedented quality. A reconstruction of sieve tube ultrastructure served as basis for tube resistance calculations. The impact of agglomerations on phloem flow is discussed.
!~RES~! Because electron microscopy samples are under high vacuum, samples have to be fixed and dehydrated. Since the structure of proteins, membranes, and other cellular components is often defined by their interaction with water molecules, dehydration may lead to artifacts. The degree of artifacts varies with cell and protein type. To draw appropriate conclusions, an in vivo reference is most helpful. Unfortunately, such a reference is lacking for sieve tubes. Sieve tube components are usually invisible in the light microscope because of their size and/or lack of contrast. In addition, it would be important that sieve tubes be observed without preparation, which is unfortunately usually impossible because of the anatomy of the plant. So far, not a single study has shown cellular features of the phloem without preparation of the tissue. Even the method that allowed us to investigate individual uninjured sieve elements in broad bean (Vicia faba) at high resolution requires removal of cortical cell layers (CITATION). Our aim for this study, however, was to investigate sieve tubes without any mechanical intervention. In aboveground organs, in addition to being embedded in a thick layer of ground tissue, the phloem is covered by more or less opaque, pigmented cells, making a direct observation impossible. The cells in roots of many plant species, however, are relatively transparent. To study the phloem, a thin cortical layer is beneficial, since cell wall–cytoplasm interfaces lead to reflection and refraction phenomena. In this regard, Arabidopsis thaliana appears ideal. The cortical layer in primary roots is just three cell layers thick, and the root cells do not contain significant amounts of polyphenolics and other compounds that would significantly affect optical properties. The small size of Arabidopsis sieve tubes is a drawback, but with high-end instrumentation, subcellular structures can be visualized. We expected that the forisome homolog gene SEOR1 in Arabidopsis encodes a specific P protein. We cloned the gene, including its endogenous promoter, fused yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) to its C terminus and generated transgenic Arabidopsis lines. To study roots in vivo, we used microscopy rhizosphere chambers (Micro-ROCs) and grew Arabidopsis plants expressing SEOR1-YFP for structural studies. The chambers consist of plant pots with a cover glass as one of the side walls, optimized for high resolution. Root growth is funneled along the cover glass by a porous mesh, while root hairs are in direct contact with soil. In contrast with glass-bottom Petri dishes, where plants are grown in an artificial medium under sterile conditions and at 100% humidity, Micro-ROCs allow direct visualization of the root system in a natural soil environment, which also includes symbionts. Maximum resolution without any preparation or manipulation of the tissue is possible (Figure 1A). [[FIGURE]] YFP fluorescence was first detectable in the differentiation zone of young roots (Figure 1B). After elongation, spherical amorphous protein agglomerates were found inside the cells (Figure 1C). Time-lapse movies revealed quick movements of the bodies in actively growing root regions (see Supplemental Movie 1 online). In the course of further development, the protein bodies increased in size and became elongated (Figure 1D). An early indication of branch root development is the appearance of additional small protein bodies beneath the sieve tube (Figure 1E). The bodies increase in size (Figure 1F) until the branch root breaks through the cortical layer and branch root sieve tubes are formed (Figure 1G). At certain locations, a sudden and significant alteration in the shape of the protein bodies can be observed. The oval, amorphous bodies condense and transform into defined filamentous structures (Figure 1H). Both amorphous bodies and filamentous structures are usually aligned in files. To study subcellular localization, we investigated living root sieve tubes by confocal microscopy. Besides the prominent amorphous bodies, fine strands became visible (Figure 2A). To identify the cell type in which the fine strands occur, we generated a double transgenic line expressing SEOR1-YFP and green fluorescent protein (GFP) tagged to the ER under control of the Medicago truncatula SEO2 promoter. This promoter is known to be sieve element specific, which allows the unequivocal distinction of sieve elements and companion cells (CITATION). Filaments are restricted to sieve elements (Figures 2B and 2C), while amorphous protein may occur outside a file, probably in young developing tubes. To determine the location of actively translocating sieve tubes, we loaded leaves of transgenic Arabidopsis plants grown in Micro-ROCs with carboxyfluorescein diacetate (CFDA; CITATION) and observed transport in uninjured roots. Translocation occurred in cells containing filamentous proteins (Figure 2D). [[FIGURE]] In older roots, SEOR1-YFP filaments became more prominent (Figures 2E and 2F). Amorphous protein bodies are located in neighboring and nontranslocating cell files, supporting the notion that these are young developing sieve elements (Figure 2F) and that sieve tubes become active after the proteins transform into filaments. At highest resolution, a meshwork becomes visible that usually extends throughout the sieve element (Figure 2G). The meshwork and ER cover a significant fraction of the sieve tube membrane (Figure 2H) and are closely associated. At the sieve plate, the meshwork traverses the sieve plate pores, outlining their location (Figures 2I and 2J). We reinvestigated the literature and our own vast collection of sieve tube micrographs but failed to find any structures in electron micrographs of Arabidopsis and other species that resembled the meshworks found in our confocal images of mature translocating tubes. We therefore decided to reinvestigate sieve tube ultrastructure. The formation of artifacts in sieve tubes due to preparation and fixation for electron microscopy has been discussed in numerous publications (e.g., CITATION; CITATION). A large number of fixation protocols, including chemical and freeze fixation of plant and callus sieve tubes has been tested (e.g., CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). A crucial step, however, is the preparation before fixation. Since electron microscopy generally requires small samples, the tissue is usually sectioned. This procedure induces artifacts before fixation is even initiated. Therefore, we decided to fix entire plants to prevent prefixation artifacts. Chemical fixation may be suboptimal because of the slow diffusion of the fixative through multiple tissue layers. Ultrafast freezing procedures require vitrification of the tissue; otherwise, water-crystal formation leads to complete distortion of cellular features. Although high-pressure freezing provides superior vitrification to a depth of up to 500 μm and represents the optimum procedure for tissue cryofixation, the maximum sample size is an area of 1 × 2 mm, too small for any plant (CITATION). Other freezing techniques such as jet freezing or plunge freezing usually vitrify the outer 5 to 40 μm of the tissue at best. Even in very small plants such as Arabidopsis, the phloem is never closer than 50 μm to the surface. However, the phloem has one major advantage over other tissues. It carries a high concentration of an intrinsic cryoprotectant: Suc. Standard fixation of Arabidopsis leaf and stem segments after excision leads to the typical precipitation of P proteins on the sieve plate (Figure 3A), which has been seen before in many other plant species. Often the pores are filled with protein filaments and lined with a thick layer of callose (e.g., CITATION; Figure 3B). We compared chemical fixation of excised tissue with chemical fixation of whole young plants. P proteins in uncut sieve tubes were more evenly distributed throughout the lumen, and the organelles were usually intact (Figures 3C and 3D). The appearance resembled tubes after gentle preparation (CITATION). However, no structure could be found that matched the strands observed by confocal microscopy in living tubes. [[FIGURE]] We then took young Arabidopsis plants in the four to eight leaf state and plunge froze them in slush nitrogen (~63K). Subsequently, the tissue was freeze-substituted in aldehyde fixative containing acetone and postfixed in osmium tetroxide (see Methods for a detailed protocol). Initially, preservation was poor and it turned out that plants had to be grown at 100% humidity either in soil or on Petri dishes to achieve appropriate preservation. Such growth conditions prevented the formation of a thick cuticle that obviously represents a significant freezing barrier. In some cases, it is beneficial to add 0.1 to 0.5% water to the glutaraldehyde-containing acetone fixative. The water supports preservation and easier sectioning of the tissue. In plunge-frozen and freeze-substituted tissue, parenchyma cells surrounding the sieve elements and companion cells are severely damaged and no subcellular structures are preserved (Figure 3E). However, unprecedented preservation is achieved in sieve elements and companion cells of source leaves. Sieve element plastids and mitochondria are intact. Most importantly, protein filaments, 20 nm (± 1.7 nm) in diameter and often forming bundles, are located at the margin of the cells (Figure 3E), while the fine filaments in the lumen, usually found after chemical fixation (cf. Figures 3A and 3C), are absent. In accordance with confocal images (Figures 2G and 2I), filament bundles are preferentially oriented longitudinally to the sieve tube axis (Figures 4A to 4C). Bundles may consist of <10 to >100 individual filaments (Figure 4A). Tangential and longitudinal sections suggest that the filaments are relatively flexible, may bend backward, and often are not strictly aligned in parallel (Figures 4B and 4C). [[FIGURE]] Sieve plate pores are often unobstructed (but see below), and there is no indication of callose deposition around the pores (Figure 4D). In accordance with investigations after chemical fixation, the ER is organized in stacks (Figure 4E). Sieve element plastids have a smooth surface and are not in close contact with other structures or organelles (Figures 3E, 4A, and 4F). By contrast, mitochondria are always embedded in a parietal layer (Figure 4G), and they are always surrounded by a “halo” of 34.5 nm (± 8 nm; Figures 4H and 4I) to which other structures, such as protein filaments (Figure 4H) or membranes (Figure 4I), are attached. In addition, it appears that there is an amorphous ground matrix of the parietal layer embedding all other structures (Figures 4G to 4I). The nature of this matrix is obscure. In some cases, it looks as though ER membranes disintegrate or transform into this amorphous structure (Figure 4E). The layer, however, could also consist of parietal proteins found in other plant species (e.g., CITATION). In addition to mitochondria, smaller, electron-dense vesicles can frequently be found in the parietal ground matrix (Figures 4G to 4I), which seem to bud off of membrane structures. The nature of the membranes is yet unclear. They may be constituents of the ER, but they often appear more electron dense and significantly better preserved than the ER, suggesting a different molecular composition. To verify that the filaments and bundles are formed by SEOR1, we investigated the Arabidopsis T-DNA insertion mutant GABI-KAT 609F04. The T-DNA insertion is located in the first exon (Figure 5A). PCR experiments verified that the protein is effectively knocked out, but truncated mRNAs are formed. PlantpromoterDB 2.0 predicted a possible weak promoter in the second intron, which might lead to the formation of the observed truncated mRNAs. However, the mutant did not show antigenicity to the P protein–specific antibody RS21 (CITATION; CITATION), while the phloem in wild-type plants was well labeled (Figure 5B). The neighboring gene, At3g01670, which shows high homology to At3g01680, was not affected by the T-DNA insertion (Figure 5B). TEM images confirmed the absence of SEOR filaments, while all other structures found in wild-type plants were present (Figures 5C to 5E). Complementation by transformation of the mutant with SEOR1-GFP led to recovery of filament generation in the mutant. The complemented line showed reduced fluorescence compared with the SEOR1-YFP line; however, bundles of filaments resembling those of SEOR1-YFP plants could clearly be visualized (Figure 5F). [[FIGURE]] Frequently, we noticed in confocal images that SEOR1-YFP forms agglomerates filling significant portions of the tube diameter at, or close to, the sieve plate. The appearance of these agglomerates is extremely variable. Some sieve tubes may contain large bundles (Figure 6A), while others have agglomerates on both sides of the sieve plate and filaments spanning through the pores (Figure 6B). In many cases, however, multiple large agglomerations fill the entire lumen of the tube (Figures 6C and 6D). We loaded the phloem with CFDA and, surprisingly, independent of the amount of protein in the tube lumen, all sieve tubes were fully functional (Figures 6C and 6D). The structural state of the protein filling the lumen is different in mature and young sieve tubes. Developing sieve tubes contain amorphous protein bodies (Figure 6E, lower body), while the agglomerations in mature sieve tubes consist mainly of filaments and bundles, indicated by their extensions (Figure 6E, upper body; see also Figures 6H to 6J). Despite the large amount of protein within the flow path, the tube contains CFDA (Figure 6F). The lower tube is still in development with isolated sieve elements and a sieve element in the transition phase (Figure 6F, lower file, left). [[FIGURE]] Since CFDA is loaded in leaves and diffuses into source tissue until it reaches the phloem, no distinct front but a gradual increase in fluorescence results in the transport phloem. The problem becomes especially obvious when neighboring companion and parenchyma cells light up almost as fast as the sieve tubes. Since the quality and speed of loading is dependent on multiple factors, it has not yet been possible to standardize the procedure to always obtain the same loading. Therefore, we were not yet able to exclude the possibility that sieve tubes containing large agglomerations did not actually translocate but that the fluorescence diffused from neighboring tubes. To unequivocally prove that the tubes are actively translocating, we conducted studies on real-time movement of fluorescent dyes within individual sieve tubes. We grew plants in Micro-ROCs, loaded them with CFDA, and photobleached CFDA in the tube to produce a distinct front of fluorescence and imaged refilling at 0.3-s intervals (fluorescence recovery after photobleaching [FRAP]). Since the laser of a confocal microscope can be directed with pixel size accuracy, precise areas can be targeted. Figure 6G shows three frames of a FRAP experiment of the tube shown in Figures 6E and 6F. Refilling occurs at a velocity of ~60 μm s−1 downstream of the obstruction (see Supplemental Movie 2 online). There is no other sieve tube or lateral sieve plate that would allow bypassing the agglomeration. We therefore conclude that transport occurs through agglomerations. Currently, phloem translocation is thought to be driven by an osmotically generated pressure differential. Sieve tubes supposedly provide a channel of adequately low hydraulic resistance permitting pressure differential driven flow. The presence of agglomerations in the flow path necessitated a reevaluation of the feasibility of a pressure flow. To calculate the increase of resistance by obstructions, the resolution of confocal microscopy is insufficient. Only TEM permits precise measurements. TEM sections, on the other hand, are only in the range of 80-nm thick and the agglomerations are rare in comparison to unobstructed areas. To section through a single sieve element of 120-μm length, 1500 individual cross sections are required, and on average, only every tenth sieve element contains an agglomeration. By conducting serial cross sectioning, we were able to find two sieve plates and one area of obstruction. At the sieve plate, numerous filaments are located that traverse the pores (Figure 6H1). Right behind the sieve plate, ~55% of the lumen is obstructed by filaments (Figure 6H2). With increasing distance, the filaments are located further toward the margins (Figure 6H3) until they form distinct bundles (Figure 6H4). Sieve plates in Arabidopsis are often not strictly perpendicular to the tube axis (Figure 6I1). The sieve plate in Figure 6I also contains filaments on the plate. While some pores are open, others contain several filaments that obstruct a certain percentage of the pore’s lumen (Figure 6I3). The only agglomeration we found so far is shown in Figure 6J. The distance between image Figure 6J1 and 6J4 is ~7 μm. Major parts of the lumen are filled with filaments with the exception of an area of ~0.5 × 1 μm. Average filament diameter is 21.8 ± 2.5 nm (n = 100) with 6.1 ± 1.3 nm (n = 43) spacing between filaments within the agglomeration. To see if the abundance of filaments and bundles is a general feature of dicot sieve tubes, we investigated two nonrelated plant species. While Arabidopsis has developed into an important model plant, ultrastructural studies are very limited. We chose tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum), since extensive ultrastructural data are available, and black cottonwood (Populus trichocarpa) as model tree species. Preservation of some ultrastructural features was not as good as in Arabidopsis, and modification of the fixation protocol will be required in the future. However, filaments and bundles can be seen in the periphery of sieve elements (Figures 7A to 7C). In contrast with Arabidopsis, sieve element plastids of tobacco are decorated with filaments (Figure 7A). The size of the filaments differed slightly from that of Arabidopsis with an average of 18.68 ± 2.1 nm in tobacco and 23.88 ± 2.1 nm in black cottonwood. [[FIGURE]] The structures found in whole-plant freeze substitutions differ significantly from what has been described using other preparation and fixation protocols. The large amount of Arabidopsis SEOR1 filaments in the translocation path inevitably leads to the question of its impact on tube resistance. The question is: Can a pressure flow, as discussed by CITATION, drive phloem translocation? Figure 8 shows a schematic summary of our findings in Arabidopsis sieve tubes. In recent phloem flow calculation models, sieve tubes were expected to be empty tubes and the space occupied by organelles and other structures is considered to be below the error of sieve tube geometry measurements (CITATION; CITATION). In reality, however, even in areas without significant SEOR1 accumulation, a major fraction of the tube lumen turned out to be unavailable for translocation. Usually, up to 30% (Figure 4G) are occupied by sieve tube constituents. Even in the wider tubes of tobacco, up to 35% (Figure 7A) of the lumen is filled with sieve element plastids and other organelles. On top of this, SEOR1 agglomerations need to be included in the calculations. [[FIGURE]] To quantify the effects of the organelles and SEOR1 filaments on the flow, we calculate the influence of these on the hydrostatic pressure difference between source and sink tissues required to drive the observed flow. For simplicity, we consider a single sieve tube as a proxy for the phloem and model the translocation pathway as consisting of a collection of approximately cylindrical sieve tube elements lying end to end separated by sieve plates. This approach has been widely used in previous studies of phloem transport (for example, see CITATION, and references therein). The relation between the hydrostatic pressure drop Δp between source and sink and the volumetric flow rate Q through the sieve tube is the hydraulic equivalent of Ohm’s law (CITATION) Here, the volumetric flow rate Q = UA is the product of the flow velocity U and cross-section area A of the sieve element, and R is the hydraulic resistance of the phloem translocation pathway. Due to the abundance of sieve tube constituents at the margins, we estimate that between 65 and 100% of the area is open to flow, such that the cross-section area A lies in the range A ≃ (4.5 – 7.1) μm2. Typical flow speeds observed are of the order U ≃ 100 μm/s, which yields Q ≃ (450 – 710) μm3/s. When calculating the resistance R in Equation 1, we take into account three major components: (1) the tube lumen including organelles, (2) the sieve plate, and (3) the SEOR1 agglomerations. Assuming that the translocation pathway consists of N ≃ 1250 identical sieve tube elements, of which contain a SEOR1 agglomeration, we write the resistance of the phloem translocation pathway R as Here, Rlumen is the resistance of a single sieve tube element lumen, Rplate is the resistance of a single sieve plate separating adjacent sieve elements, and Rplug is the resistance of a single SEOR1 agglomeration. Please refer to the Supplemental Appendix online for a detailed discussion of how these resistance values are determined and Table 1 for a list of characteristic values of the parameters used. As shown in Table 2, we find typical values of the terms in Equation 2: While the contribution from the lumen and plate resistances are of comparable magnitude, the contribution from the SEOR1 agglomerations is somewhat smaller, reflecting the fact that these are only found in every ~10 sieve tube elements. We finally have for the total resistance in Equation 2 that and find from Equation 1 that the pressure drop required to drive the flow over a distance of 15 cm lies in the range Δp ≃ (0.21 – 0.23) MPa. List of Parameters for Flow Calculations Parameters Relevant for the Calculation of the Pressure Drop Δp in Equation 1/(A1) Since SEOR1 is located in the flow path of sieve tubes, we tested a potential influence on translocation. We used the homozygous SEOR1 T-DNA insertion mutant (GABI-KAT 609F04) and conducted flow velocity studies along intact roots. We studied the flow in eight independent plants of each wild type and T-DNA insertion mutant (Figures 9A to 9D). Velocities in the root system are variable in both lines. So far, no significant difference between insertion mutant and the wild type has been found (Figures 9A and 9B). We further measured the average sieve tube diameter of the two lines to see if fewer obstructions lead to a change in tube anatomy. Average sieve tube diameters did not differ significantly between the lines. [[FIGURE]] Our study was initiated because the genomic SEOR1 sequence in Arabidopsis showed homology to genomic sequences of Medicago forisomes (CITATION) and therefore was likely to be a yet unknown P protein. This relationship also suggested a similar function. Forisomes appear to form reversible agglomerations that temporarily stop sieve tube flow (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION). The transformation from the low volume to the high volume state of a forisome may be completed in 100 ms (CITATION). Thus, we tested SEOR1 for a potential injury reaction. Initially, we observed intact sieve tubes for several hours by epifluorescence and confocal microscopy without any indication of dynamic behavior of SEOR1 bundles and agglomerations. Then, we tested different injury stimuli that are known to trigger the forisome reaction, such as local mechanical injury, distant burning of leaf tips, and local cold shocks (CITATION; CITATION). None of the treatments triggered any immediate reaction. Even direct application of 1 to 5 mM Ca2+ medium on ruptured sieve tubes or isolated SEOR1 bundles did not result in any structural changes. Although we were not able to find reactions equivalent to that of forisomes, SEOR1 in Arabidopsis sieve tubes underwent an obvious structural alteration after tissue excision and standard fixation for TEM (Figures 3A and 3B). To understand the development of these structures, we conducted time-lapse movies of injured sieve tubes. A very slow movement of SEOR1 toward the sieve plate was observed in some cases. Surprisingly, the movement did not stop at the sieve plate but agglomerates continued to move through the plate for extended periods of time (Figure 9E; see Supplemental Movie 3 online).
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia, SEOR1 T-DNA insertion mutant GABI-KAT 609F04, and tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) were grown on 0.44% (w/v) Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 87.6 mM Suc, 2.56 mM MES buffer, pH 5.8, and 0.8% (w/v) agar. Seeds were surface sterilized with 70% ethanol, plated, and cold treated overnight at 4°C before being placed into the growth chamber. The plants were grown at 25°C with a 16/8-h light/dark period. Black cottonwood (Populus trichocarpa) was grown in pots in a greenhouse at 23°C, with 60 to 70% relative humidity, and a 14/10-h light/dark period (daylight plus additional lamp light [model PL 90; PL Lighting Systems]) with a minimum irradiance of 150 μE m−2 s−1. Plants were grown in Micro-ROCs (Advanced Science Tools) in the greenhouse at a 14-h photoperiod, 300 to 400 μE m–2 s–1, at 20°C day and 15°C night. Plants were grown to the six- to eight-leaf stage for SEOR1-YFP imaging. FRAP plants were grown until the first true leaves matched the diameter of the cotyledons. Liquid nitrogen was placed into a shallow, thick-sided polystyrene container and placed under vacuum for ~7 min until the nitrogen became slushy. Whole Arabidopsis plants, in the four-leaf state, were gently teased from the MS agar and rapidly plunged into the slush nitrogen. The frozen plants were then transferred to 2% glutaraldehyde in acetone with 0.1% water, 0.1% tannic acid, or 4% tannic acid in scintillation vials on dry ice. The plants in solution were transferred to −80°C for 24 h and then placed into a −20°C freezer while removing most of the dry ice. The solution was allowed to ramp up to −20°C over a period of at least 8 h. The plants were rinsed twice for 30 min with cooled (−20°C) acetone. Postfixation was achieved in cooled (−20°C) 2% OsO4 in acetone overnight. The material was ramped to 20°C over a period of 6 h. The OsO4 was rinsed with acetone two times for 30 min and exchanged for propylene oxide (PO). The plants were infiltrated with a soft recipe Spurr’s resin (SR; CITATION) as follows: 3:1 PO:SR, 48 h; 2:1 PO:SR, 24 h; 1:1 PO:SR, 24 h; 1:2 PO:SR, 24 h; 1:3 PO:SR, 24 h; 100% SR, 24 h; 100% SR, 48 h; 100% SR, 24 h. Before each exchange, the samples were cycled three times in vacuum for 5 min each cycle. The samples were embedded in fresh SR and cured for 2 d at 60°C. Ultrathin sections (70 to 100 nm) were taken with an ultramicrotome (Reichert Ultracut R; Leica) and placed on formvar-coated slot grids. They were stained with a solution of 1% uranyl acetate and 0.01% potassium permanganate for 10 min and poststained for 6 min in Reynolds lead citrate (CITATION). The sections were imaged on a FEI Tecnai G2 TEM (FEI Company) or a Philips CM200 UT Intermediate Voltage TEM (FEI Company). Epifluorescence microscopy was performed with a Leica DM LFSA microscope or with a Leica MZ8 stereomicroscope. Images and movies were recorded with a Leica DFC 300FX-cooled charge-coupled device camera. To show the outline of root cells, 0.1 μg/mL synapto-red (EMD Chemicals) was added to agar plates. For synapto red and YFP double-labeled tissue, a Leica filter cube I3 was used, and for YFP or CFDA detection, a GFP filter cube was used. All confocal laser scanning microscope images were obtained with a Leica TCS SP5. Respective excitation and emission for YFP, GFP, GFP5, and CFDA were 514 argon/520 to 550, 488 argon/500 to 600, 405 diode/475 to 530, and 488 argon/490 to 515. Subsequent processing used ImageJ for time series and Leica LAS AF Lite software for images. For flow velocity, measurements were conducted with plants in the four-leaf state grown in micro-ROCs. CFDA was loaded into the first true leaves and cotyledons by half clipping and applying 20 μL 1:5 (v/v) 50 mg mL−1 CFDA in acetone to water. Loaded sieve elements in the primary root were manually photobleached at 488 nm at maximum laser intensity, pinhole at Airy 3, and at ×8 zoom, starting apically and moving toward the hypocotyl. A 3-frames per second time series, to record refilling of the sieve element, immediately followed the reduction of the laser power to 15% and zoom to ×1. Region-of-interest intensities were generated using Leica LAS AF Lite software. The Modular Binary Construct System (gift from Christopher G. Taylor) was used for all constructs. The K4 adapter made from 5′-TTCGGATCCACTAGTTCTGCTGCTGGTTCTGCTGCTGGTTCTGGGGGATCCCTT-3′ and 5′-AAGGGATCCCCCAGAACCAGCAGCAGAACCAGCAGCAGAACTAGTGGATCCGAA-3′, which contains a unique SpeI restriction site was cloned into the BamHI site of a modified AKK 1435 vector containing the YFP gene and sequenced for directionality. SEOR1, minus the stop codon, and its 1500-bp promoter region was amplified from BAC clone F4P13 with 5′-TCGGTACCGAACTAATACACAAGTAACACAAGT-3′ and 5′-TTCACTAGTGAAGTTGTAGTTCTCGTCTT-3′. This was ligated into the AKK 1435 shuttle vector at the KpnI and SpeI sites. The PacI promoter-gene fusion cassette was then ligated into the AKK 1426b binary vector containing in planta glufosinate resistance (CITATION). The construct was used to transform Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia via Agrobacterium rhizogenes 18r12v using the floral dip method (CITATION), and the transformed seeds were screened with daily spraying of 0.003% glufosinate ammonium (Sigma-Aldrich) and 0.05% Silwet L-77. T2 generations were screened by epifluorescence microscopy to identify homozygous lines. GFP5-ER was amplified from pBINmGFP5ER (CITATION) with primers 5′-TTCAAGCTTAAGGAGATATAACAATGAAGACTA-3′ and 5′-TTCGGATCCGATCTAGTAACATAGATGACACC-3′ and subsequently cloned into AKK 1408 at the 3′ end of the 2047-bp Medicago truncatula SEO2 promoter (CITATION). The Pro-Mt-SEO2-GFP5-ER cassette was then cloned into binary vector AKK 1426b via SdaI. Arabidopsis expressing At SEOR1-YFP was transformed with Pro-Mt-SEO2-GFP5-ER by A. rhizogenes 18r12v using the floral dip method (CITATION) with seeds screened on MS plates containing 50 μg mL−1 kanamycin. Approximately 1000 bp of promoter sequences extending 5′ from, but not including, the translation start codon of SEOR1 were PCR amplified from the bacterial artificial chromosome F4P13. The amplicons were initially cloned into the pGEM-T easy vector, and specific primers were designed to subclone the amplicons into SalI and XbaI restriction sites located 3 bp 5′ of the translation initiation codon of the GUS reporter gene (uidA) in the pGPTV-Kan binary vector (CITATION). The enhanced GFP gene was PCR amplified and subcloned into the pGPTV-Kan binary vector in place of the uidA gene using the SmaI and KpnI restriction sites, and these primers also created a multiple cloning site at the 3′ end of the enhanced GFP gene. Subsequently, the SEOR1 open reading frame was PCR amplified and subcloned into this multiple cloning site (KpnI and ApaI). The binary vectors were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 and used to transform Arabidopsis by the floral dip method (CITATION). Transgenic plants were then screened on kanamycin-supplemented media. T-DNA insertions in SEOR1 were identified using T-DNA Express (http://signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/tdnaexpress). Seeds for GABI-KAT 609F04 (SEOR1 knockout) were obtained from the Genomanalyse im Biologischen System Pflanze. Plants from the original seed stocks or one generation later were screened to identify individual homozygous plants using the PCR-based screening technique according to the method of CITATION. The GABI-KAT 609F04 mutant contained a second T-DNA insertion so plants were allowed to self-fertilize and plants homozygous for the SEOR1 insertion alone were identified. Successful knockout of the gene was confirmed using RT-PCR. In brief, total RNA was extracted using the Trizol method, and total RNA was reverse transcribed using SuperScript II according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Partial, intron-spanning sections of the gene were amplified using gene-specific primers, including section 1 (1 to 351 bp) 5′-ATGGAGTCGCTGATCAAGTC-3′ and 5′-TATCTCGCAGGCAACACGAT-3′, section 2 (860 to 988) 5′-ACCATCTCGCTGAGACCTTGAGG-3′ and 5′-GGCCGTGAGAATCTTCATGTTATCA-3′, section 3 (1494 to 1659) 5′-GAGAGAGACCTTTTCCCTTAACCTCA-3′ and 5′-TTCACGTTGGAATCTTTGGCC-3′, and subsequently visualized on a 1.6% agarose gel containing ethidium bromide. Cross sections of unfixed floral stems from Arabidopsis Columbia plants and GABI-KAT 609F04 were cut with a vibrating microtome (Vibratome) at 50 μm and collected in PBS. Sections were washed twice in 10 mM PBS and then incubated for 30 min in blocking buffer (PBS with 3% nonfat dry milk). Sections were washed twice more with PBS and incubated for 45 min with the RS21 primary monoclonal antibody in blocking buffer (1:100). After incubation with primary antibody, the sections were washed three times with PBS and then incubated in PBS with ALEXA 488-nm fluorescently tagged secondary goat anti-mouse antibody (Molecular Probes) (1:250). Finally, the labeled sections were washed twice with PBS and once with nanopure water and observed under a Nikon E600 epifluorescence microscope, with an excitation wavelength of 490 nm and an emission wavelength of 512 nm. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: At3g01680 (SEOR1) and GK-609F04-021864 (GABI-KAT 609F04). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Movie 1. SEOR1 in Root Tip. Supplemental Movie 2. Real-Time Imaging of Phloem Flow. Supplemental Movie 3. SEOR1 Movement in Injured Sieve Tubes. Supplemental Movie Legends. Legends for Supplemental Movies 1 to 3. Supplemental Appendix 1. Mathematical Derivation of Expressions for the Three Resistances given in Equation (2). Supplemental References 1. Supplemental References for Supplemental Appendix 1.
