!~ABS~! Heterotrimeric G proteins, consisting of Gα, Gβ, and Gγ subunits, play important roles in plant development and cell signaling. In Arabidopsis, in addition to one prototypical G protein α subunit, GPA1, there are three extra-large G proteins, XLG1, XLG2, and XLG3, of largely unknown function. Each extra-large G (XLG) protein has a C-terminal Gα-like region and a ∼400 amino acid N-terminal extension. Here we show that the three XLG proteins specifically bind and hydrolyze GTP, despite the fact that these plant-specific proteins lack key conserved amino acid residues important for GTP binding and hydrolysis of GTP in mammalian Gα proteins. Moreover, unlike other known Gα proteins, these activities require Ca2+ instead of Mg2+ as a cofactor. Yeast two-hybrid library screening and in vitro protein pull-down assays revealed that XLG2 interacts with the nuclear protein RTV1 (related to vernalization 1). Electrophoretic mobility shift assays show that RTV1 binds to DNA in vitro in a non-sequence-specific manner and that GTP-bound XLG2 promotes the DNA binding activity of RTV1. Overexpression of RTV1 results in early flowering. Combined overexpression of XLG2 and RTV1 enhances this early flowering phenotype and elevates expression of the floral pathway integrator genes, FT and SOC1, but does not repress expression of the floral repressor, FLC. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays show that XLG2 increases RTV1 binding to FT and SOC1 promoters. Thus, a Ca2+-dependent G protein, XLG2, promotes RTV1 DNA binding activity for a subset of floral integrator genes and contributes to floral transition. 
!~RES~! The C-terminal regions of XLGs contain Gα domains (G-1 to G-5) (CITATION, CITATION), which, in heterotrimeric G proteins, mediate GTP binding and hydrolysis (CITATION). However, some amino acids conserved in the G-1 to G-5 domains of Gα proteins are not conserved within the corresponding domains of XLG proteins. Particularly, amino acids in the regions of the G-3 and G-5 domains, which are involved in Mg2+ coordination, GTP binding, and subsequent GTP hydrolysis, are not conserved (CITATION) (Table 1). This raised the question of whether or not XLG proteins are able to bind and hydrolyze GTP. We addressed the biochemical properties of the three XLG proteins using GTP binding and GTPase assays. Results were similar for all three XLG proteins; results for XLG2 are reported here, and those for XLG1 and XLG3 are described in supplemental Figs. 1–4. To examine specific GTPγS binding and GTPase activities, we purified and assayed recombinant GPA1 and XLG proteins fused with His6 and TRX.  [[TABLE]] As expected, GPA1 bound GTPγS rapidly in the presence of Mg2+ (Fig. 1A), illustrating the known dependence of Gα proteins on this divalent cation (CITATION). However, XLG2C did not bind GTPγS under these conditions (Fig. 1A). To address whether XLG2C has a preference for other divalent cations over Mg2+ for GTP binding activity, GTP binding filter assays were performed in the presence of Ca2+ instead of Mg2+. Interestingly, the presence of Ca2+ promoted XLG2C binding of GTPγS, whereas in the absence of any divalent ion, there was no GTPγS binding to XLG2C (Fig. 1B). By contrast, GPA1 showed weaker GTPγS binding in the presence of Ca2+ as compared with Mg2+ (Fig. 1C). Similar to XLG2C, XLG1 and XLG3 also bound GTPγS in the presence of Ca2+ (supplemental Figs. 3 and 4). These results indicate that XLG proteins prefer Ca2+ over Mg2+ as a cofactor for their GTP binding activities. To confirm the specificity of GTP binding, PCR-based mutagenesis was used to generate a mutation, T475N, in the G-1 domain of XLG2, a residue which is essential for binding to the phosphate moieties of guanine nucleotides (CITATION). Similar mutations have been reported to abolish the GTP binding activity of other G proteins. For example, the T22N mutation of rice OsRab7 protein eliminates GTP binding (CITATION, CITATION). Mutations S47C of mammalian Gαo and S48C of Gαi2 also impair GTPγS binding and create a dominant negative phenotype (CITATION, CITATION). We designated this mutant protein XLG2C(T475N); this protein was also tagged with N-terminal His6 and TRX. GTP binding by XLG2C(T475N) protein was greatly reduced (Fig. 1C). As expected, purified His6 TRX control protein did not show any GTP binding activity (Fig. 1, A and C). Analogous mutations reduced the GTP binding of XLG1C and XLG3C (supplemental Figs. 3A and 4A).  [[FIGURE]] Because heterotrimeric G protein α subunits, including Arabidopsis GPA1, have intrinsic GTPase activity, we examined the GTPase activity of XLG2C using thin layer chromatography (TLC) in the presence of various divalent cations. Although GPA1, like mammalian Gα subunits, exhibited the greatest hydrolytic activity in the presence of Mg2+, XLG2C showed little or no GTPase activity under this condition (Fig. 2A). In contrast, XLG2C GTPase activity was observed in the presence of Ca2+ (Fig. 2, A and B), although this activity was less than that of GPA1 in the presence of Mg2+ (Fig. 2A and supplemental Fig. 2C). As expected, no GTPase activity was observed for the mutant form of XLG2C, XLG2C(T475N) (Fig. 2B). The GTPase activity of XLG2C protein, which has no tag, was similar to that of His6 TRX-tagged XLG2C (supplemental Fig. 2B), indicating that His6 TRX tag does not affect the GTP binding and GTPase activities of XLG C terminus proteins.  [[FIGURE]] The specificity of the GTPase activity of XLG2C was also addressed (Fig. 2C). When a ∼100-fold excess of cold GTPγS, GDP, or ATP was added to the reaction, GTPγS had the greatest competitive effect, indicating that XLG2C specifically binds GTP (Fig. 2C). The full-length XLG2 protein exhibited only slightly increased GTPase activity compared with XLG2 C terminus protein (Table 2 and supplemental Fig. 2B), suggesting that the N-terminal region of XLG2 is dispensable for the GTPase activity. Similar results were observed for XLG1 and XLG3 (Table 2 and supplemental Figs. 3 and 4).  [[TABLE]] To address the functions of XLGs, we used a yeast two-hybrid screen to identify proteins that interact with XLG2. One XLG2-interacting protein recovered from the screen was RTV1 (related to vernalization 1) (At1g49480). RTV1 encodes a predicted protein of 226 amino acids with a plant-specific B3 DNA binding domain and a nuclear localization signal (NLS) (CITATION). RTV1 shows an overall 81% identity with VRN1 in its amino acid sequence. VRN1 is a plant-specific B3-like DNA binding domain protein (CITATION) that is required for maintenance of vernalization-mediated FLC repression and also promotes flowering in a vernalization-independent manner (CITATION). To identify the domains of XLG2 that are responsible for RTV1 binding, we used partial cDNAs for additional yeast two-hybrid assays (Fig. 3A). Both full-length XLG2 and the C terminus of XLG2 interacted with RTV1, but the N terminus of XLG2 did not, indicating that the C terminus of XLG2 is responsible for the interaction in yeast.  [[FIGURE]] Interestingly, the XLG2 mutant proteins, XLG2 full-length (T475N) and XLG2C(T475N), which do not bind GTP, did not show any interaction with RTV1 in yeast (Fig. 3A), suggesting that XLG2 interacts with RTV1 in a GTP-dependent manner. These results were further confirmed by in vitro pull-down assays using recombinant proteins. We found that His6 TRX XLG2C but not His6 TRX XLG2C(T475N) binds to GST-RTV1 in vitro (Fig. 3B). Thus, the GTP binding activity of XLG2 appears to be required for its interaction with RTV1. Given the sequence similarity between RTV1 and VRN1, we also tested whether VRN1 interacts with XLGs using the yeast two-hybrid assay. However, VRN1 did not interact with any of the three XLGs (data not shown).  We used co-immunoprecipitation to test the protein-protein interaction between XLG2 and RTV1 in vivo (Fig. 4). Total proteins were extracted from wild type (non-transgenic), 35S-FLAG-XLG2(1), and 35S-FLAG-XLG2(1) 35S-RTV1-GFP double-overexpressing lines. Protein extracts were immunoprecipitated with anti-FLAG antibody as probe, and then protein gel blotting was performed to detect RTV1-GFP with anti-GFP antibody (Fig. 4). RTV1-GFP was detected in the proteins from 35S::FLAG-XLG2(1) 35S-RTV1-GFP double-overexpressing plants immunoprecipitated with anti-FLAG antibody. In control experiments, RTV1-GFP was not detected in the proteins immunoprecipitated with anti-FLAG antibody from WT or from 35S-FLAG-XLG2(1) plants, confirming the physical interaction of XLG2 with RTV1 in plant cells.  [[FIGURE]] Given that XLG2 and RTV1 interact in planta, they would be expected to show identical or overlapping subcellular localization. All XLG proteins, including XLG2, have a nuclear localization sequence and localize to the nucleus, as observed in transient expression assays (CITATION). We carried out transient expression assays to ascertain the localization of RTV1, which also has a predicted nuclear localization sequence (RKKK; amino acids 69–72). The green fluorescence signal from RTV1-GFP overlaps with the red fluorescence from the RFP-tagged NLS peptide, indicating that RTV1 localizes to the nucleus (Fig. 5).  [[FIGURE]] We applied several complementary approaches to assess RTV1 expression patterns. RT-PCR analysis showed that, similarly to XLG2 (CITATION), RTV1 is expressed throughout the plant, including in roots, stems, leaves, flowers, and cauline leaves (Fig. 6A). We then used reporter gene analysis to examine expression patterns in more detail. Histochemical GUS staining of PRTV1::GUS lines showed that RTV1 is strongly expressed in cotyledon (a), shoot apical meristem (b), radicle (c), root tip (d), and staminar filaments (e) (Fig. 6B).  [[FIGURE]] Given the sequence similarity between VRN1 and RTV1 and thus a possible role of RTV1 in vernalization response, we also examined mRNA expression of RTV1 during the course of vernalization treatment (Fig. 6, C and D, and supplemental Fig. 5). RNA blot analysis showed that mRNA expression of RTV1, but not of XLG2, is increased after a 5-week cold treatment (Fig. 6C). Up-regulation of RTV1 by a 5-week cold treatment was also observed using PRTV1-GUS (Fig. 6D). Stronger expression of PRTV1-GUS was observed in plants that experienced a long term cold treatment (Fig. 6D, +V) compared with a control without cold treatment (Fig. 6D, −V).  To further dissect the increased level of RTV1 mRNA, we performed quantitative real-time RT-PCR using samples subjected to cold treatments ranging from 1 h to 5 weeks (supplemental Fig. 5). The mRNA level of RTV1 was rapidly increased almost 10-fold within 1 h of cold treatment and then decreased below the level of no cold treatment after 3 h of cold treatment. RTV1 mRNA expression eventually increased again ∼2-fold after a 5-week cold treatment (supplemental Fig. 5). XLG2 mRNA also exhibited the rapid increase within 1 h of cold treatment and the decrease after 3 h of cold treatment. Unlike RTV1, however, the level of XLG2 mRNA remained unchanged after a 5-week cold treatment (Fig. 6C and supplemental Fig. 5).  The ectopic expression of VRN1 causes early flowering due to the activation of FT and SOC1 (CITATION). We accordingly examined flowering times of transgenic plants overexpressing RTV1. The 35S-FLAG-RTV1 plants exhibited rapid flowering under SD and a slight acceleration of flowering under LD (Fig. 7, A and B). In addition, when 35S-FLAG-RTV1 plants were vernalized, flowering was further accelerated (Fig. 7, A and B). Because XLG2 and RTV1 interact, we also evaluated the flowering time of 35S-FLAG-XLG2 35S-RTV1-GFP double overexpression lines. Interestingly, double overexpressor (Fig. 7, A and B, 35S-FLAG-XLG2 35S-RTV1-GFP) plants showed earlier flowering under LD and SD compared with both WT and 35S-FLAG-RTV1 plants, with or without vernalization treatment (Fig. 7B). Thus, the interaction between XLG2 and RTV1 appears to enhance RTV1 activity in vivo. To investigate the molecular basis of this early flowering phenotype, we examined the expression of floral pathway genes in 35S-FLAG-XLG2 and 35S-FLAG-RTV1 overexpression lines and in 35S-FLAG-XLG2 35S-RTV1-GFP double overexpression lines under SD using quantitative RT-PCR. Introduction of 35S-FLAG-XLG2 alone did not promote transcript levels of the floral pathway genes SOC1, AGL24, FT, and LFY (Fig. 7C). However, the abundance of these transcripts was increased in 35S-FLAG-RTV1 plants and even more so in 35S-FLAG-XLG2 35S-RTV1-GFP plants (Fig. 7C).  [[FIGURE]] Vernalization triggers the repression of FLC and other FLC clade genes (CITATION, CITATION). mRNA levels of FLC and its clade genes MAF1, MAF2, and MAF5 in 35S-FLAG-RTV1 and 35S-FLAG-XLG2 35S-RTV1-GFP plants immediately after vernalization showed no significant difference compared with vernalized wild type in the extent of this repression (i.e. -fold change compared with Col was <2). After vernalization, however, the floral pathway integrator genes SOC1 and AGL24 and particularly the levels of FT mRNA were higher in these lines than in Col (i.e. -fold change compared with Col was >2) (Fig. 7D). To analyze the effect of ft mutation (CITATION) on the flowering time of 35S-RTV1-GFP plants, 35S-RTV1-GFP construct was transformed into the ft mutant, and flowering times were determined (Fig. 8). 35S-RTV1-GFP in the ft mutant background had the same late flowering phenotype as ft mutants (Fig. 8), indicating that early flowering of 35S::RTV1 requires the elevated expression of FT. Therefore, accelerated flowering of overexpressing XLG2 and RTV1 plants (with or without vernalization) apparently occurs directly through regulation of the floral pathway integrator gene, FT, through a mechanism independent of repression of FLC and its clade genes.  [[FIGURE]] VRN1 shows a non-sequence-specific DNA binding activity in vitro (CITATION). Given the sequence similarity between VRN1 and RTV1 and the nuclear localization of RTV1, we examined the DNA binding activity of recombinant RTV1 protein. EMSAs were performed using DNA fragments derived from promoters of FLC, SOC1, FT, VRN2, or DFR (dihydroflavonol 4-reductase). Recombinant RTV1 protein bound to all DNA fragments tested (Fig. 9A and supplemental Fig. 6). These DNA fragments do not share any common sequence motif, illustrating that, similar to VRN1, RTV1 has non-sequence-specific DNA binding activity, at least in these in vitro assays. The interaction between XLG2 and RTV1 prompted us to hypothesize that this interaction may modulate the DNA binding activity of RTV1. Accordingly, recombinant XLG2 C-terminal domain protein (XLG2C), which contains the RTV1 interaction domains (Fig. 3), was added in the reaction with RTV1, and the binding strength was evaluated by the amount of probe retardation (Fig. 9B). The addition of XLG2C increased the DNA binding activity of RTV1 (Fig. 9B), whereas the mutant protein XLG2C(T475N), which fails to interact with RTV1, did not (Fig. 8B). Because XLG2C(T475N) mutant protein also fails to bind GTP in vitro (Fig. 1C), we examined the effect of GTP binding of XLG2C on the DNA binding activity of RTV1. XLG2C, GTPγS, and Ca2+ were added in the reaction together with RTV1. Under these conditions, XLG2C formed a supercomplex with RTV1 and probes, suggesting that activation of XLG2C by GTP binding contributes to the enhanced DNA binding of RTV1 in vitro (Fig. 9C).  [[FIGURE]] We showed that RTV1 overexpression lines show early flowering due to increased expression of floral pathway integrator genes independent of regulation of FLC expression (Figs. 7 and 8) and that RTV1 binds to DNA in a non-sequence-specific manner in vitro (Fig. 9A and supplemental Fig. 9). To address whether RTV1 binds to promoters of floral pathway integrator genes, such as FT and SOC1, in vivo, ChIP assays were employed. For these assays, wild type, 35S-FLAG-RTV1(13), and 35S-FLAG-XLG2(1) 35S-RTV1-GFP double-overexpresssing lines were used. After immunoprecipitation with anti-FLAG or anti-GFP antibodies, enrichment of FT and SOC1 promoter regions was assayed by quantitative PCR. As shown in Fig. 10, B and C, enrichment of the FT promoter region, 1–200 bp upstream from the start codon (P1) was observed in the 35S-FLAG-RTV1(13) line, with slightly enhanced enrichment in the 35S-FLAG-XLG2(1) 35S-RTV1-GFP overexpression lines. In addition, SOC1 promoter regions were not enriched in 35S-FLAG-RTV1(13), whereas enrichment of the SOC1 promoter region, 1–200 bp upstream from the start codon (P1) was observed from the 35S-FLAG-XLG2(1) 35S-RTV1-GFP (Fig. 10C). No enrichment of FLC regions was observed in either the 35S-FLAG-RTV1(13) line or the 35S-FLAG-XLG2(1) 35S-RTV1-GFP line (Fig. 10, B and C). Taken together, our results indicate that XLG2 promotes the DNA binding activity of RTV1 specifically to promoter regions of FT and SOC1 in vivo and thus leads to the activation of floral integrator genes (Fig. 11).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Seeds were germinated on 0.8% agar plates with half-strength Murashige and Skoog salt, 0.8% sucrose, stratified at 4 °C for 2 days, and grown for 10 days in long day conditions (16 h of light at 22 °C, and 8 h of dark at 22 °C) or short day conditions (8 h of light at 22 °C, 16 h of dark at 22 °C), and then plants were transplanted to soil or harvested for RNA isolation. Light intensity for LD2 and SD conditions was ∼70 μmol m−2 s−1. For the vernalization treatment, seeds were germinated on agar plates for 5 days in SD conditions, and vernalized for 5 weeks at 4 °C in SD (CITATION), and then plants were harvested for RNA isolation, or plants were transplanted to soil and transferred to growth chambers (21 ± 2 °C) under LD or SD conditions for flowering time tests.  For expression in E. coli, the coding regions of the XLG genes and GPA1 cDNA were subcloned into the pET28a-modified expression vector (Novagen) which results in production of fusion proteins with N-terminal His6 and thioredoxin (TRX) tags. We fused XLG proteins with TRX to increase solubility of the recombinant proteins. The coding region of RTV1 and each XLG was also subcloned into the pGEX-2T vector, which produces GST fusion proteins. XLG C-terminal regions (amino acids 486–888 for XLG1, 461–862 for XLG2, and 433–849 for XLG3) were also subcloned into the same vector. All constructs were transformed into the E. coli BL21(DE3)pLysS strain. Transformed cells were inoculated into 10 ml of LB medium containing 25 μg/ml kanamycin for pET28a and 50 μg/ml ampicilin for pGEX-2T. The cultures were grown at 30 °C overnight and then poured into 500 ml of fresh LB medium. When an A600 of 0.8 was reached, isopropyl β-d-thiogalactopyranoside was added to the cultures to a final concentration of 0.9 mm, and the incubation was continued for another 4 h at 30 °C for induction. His-tagged fusion proteins were purified using Ni2+-nitrilotriacetic acid-agarose column chromatography (Qiagen) (supplemental Fig. 1, a and b), and GST fusion proteins were purified using glutathione-agarose (Sigma) according to each manufacturer's instructions. Empty vectors were transformed into the E. coli BL21 (DE3) pLysS strain and expressed for purification of His6 TRX or GST. To purify XLG proteins lacking any tag, GST was cleaved by thrombin (Sigma) from GST fusion XLG proteins. Mutant (T475N) forms of full-length XLG2 and XLG2C were constructed by PCR using the following primers: 5′- GGTGGCGCCAATACAATTTACAAA-3′ and 5′-TTTGTAAATTGTATTGGCGCCACC-3′.  The [35S]GTPγS binding activity of full length XLGs, C-terminal regions of the XLGs, GPA1, and TRX protein was measured by the rapid filtration method (CITATION, CITATION). A 100 nm concentration of each purified recombinant proteins was incubated at 30 °C in 200 μl of 50 mm Tris-Cl buffer, pH 8.0, containing 1 mm EDTA, 1 mm dithiothreitol (DTT), 1 mm NaN3, 0.2 μm [35S]GTPγS, and 10 mm MgCl2 or CaCl2. The reaction was stopped by the addition of 2 ml of ice-cold buffer (20 mm Tris-Cl, pH 8.0, 100 mm NaCl, and 25 mm MgCl2). Aliquots (20 μl) were taken at the indicated times and vacuum-filtered onto nitrocellulose membranes (Millipore, Billerica, MA), which had been rinsed with 3 ml of ice-cold buffer, and membrane-bound material was washed rapidly three times with 3 ml of ice-cold buffer. The washed membranes were dried and quantified for radioactivity by liquid scintillation counting.  GTP hydrolysis assays were performed as previously described (CITATION) using PEI-cellulose TLC plates. Briefly, the reaction was performed at 30 °C in 200 μl of buffer containing 50 mm Tris-Cl, pH 8.0, 1 mm EDTA, 1 mm dithiothreitol, 1 mm NaN3, 20 pmol of [α-32P]GTP, 100 nm full-length or C-terminal XLG protein or 100 nm of GPA1 protein, and 10 mm MgCl2, MnCl2 or CaCl2. Aliquots of 10 μl were sampled at appropriate time intervals, and 10 μl of 0.5 m EDTA (pH 8.0) was added to the aliquots to stop the reaction. Samples (2 μl) were spotted onto PEI-cellulose TLC plates, which were then developed in 0.5 m KH2PO4, pH 3.4, solution. After drying, the plates were exposed to a storage phosphor screen (Amersham Biosciences) and then scanned by a PhosphorImager (GE Healthcare).  Yeast two-hybrid screening was carried out according to the manufacturer's protocol (Clontech). Briefly, the bait plasmid, pBUTE-XLG2, and total cDNAs of Arabidopsis obtained from ABRC (catalogue number CD4-10) in which the cDNAs were fused to the pACT-AD were used sequentially to transform Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain pJG69-4A. The resulting transformants were then plated on synthetic complete (SC) medium lacking uracil (Ura), leucine (Leu), and histidine (His) (SC−, Ura−, Leu−, and His−) and/or SC− Ura− and Leu−, including 3 mm 3-aminotriazole. Histidine-positive colonies were further tested for β-galactosidase (LacZ) activity according to the manufacturer's protocol (Clontech). The clones of cDNAs encoding candidate XLG2 interacting proteins were selected and isolated based on their growth as blue colonies in histidine-deficient medium. The cDNAs were isolated and sequenced. The DNA sequences were then subjected to BLAST analysis using the GenBankTM database.  Purified GST or GST-RTV1 was incubated for 2 h at 4 °C with 40 μl of glutathione-Sepharose in PBST (PBS containing 1% Triton X-100). After three washes, the beads were incubated with His-XLG2C in 0.5 ml of PBST for 3 h on a rotary shaker at 4 °C. The beads were then washed five times with PBST, boiled with SDS sample buffer, and subjected to 12% SDS-PAGE. Western blot of the resolved proteins was carried out using anti-His (Qiagen catalog no. 34660) and anti-GST (Novagen catalog no. 71097) monoclonal antibodies.  RTV1 cDNA was fused upstream of the GFP cDNA under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter (pUC::GFP) (CITATION). The construct (RTV1-GFP) was co-transformed into Arabidopsis protoplasts along with the red fluorescent protein cDNA fused to a nuclear localization signal peptide (NLS-RFP (CITATION)). Transient expression of GFP- and RFP-fused constructs in Arabidopsis protoplasts was performed according to the method described by Heo et al. (CITATION). Briefly, recombinant plasmids were introduced by polyethylene glycol (PEG)-mediated transformation into Arabidopsis protoplasts that had been prepared from leaf tissues. Expression of the fusion constructs was monitored after transformation and observed by fluorescence microscopy (Olympus AX70 TR, Olympus).  For generation of PRTV1::GUS lines (Col background), the RTV1 promoter (0.91 kb, which is the complete intergenic region) was amplified and subcloned into the pENTR directional TOPO vector (Invitrogen) followed by LR reaction (Invitrogen) into the destination vector pHGWFS7 (CITATION) using LR enzyme (Invitrogen). GUS activity was revealed by incubation in 100 mm NaPO4 (pH 7.2), 2.5 mm 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indoyl-β-d-glucuronide. Plant tissue was incubated at 37 °C for 24 h. After staining, chlorophyll was cleared from the samples by dehydration using 70% ethanol.  To generate 35S-RTV1 lines, RTV1 cDNA was ligated to the pH7GWIWG2 vector, and the construct was transformed into wild-type plants (Col-0) via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation (CITATION). For 35S-XLG2 RTV1, XLG2 cDNA was ligated to pGWB11, and the resulting 35S-XLG2 construct was transformed into the T1 generation of 35S-RTV1(13) plants. Transgenic lines were selected on selective antibiotic marker-containing medium and were confirmed by genotyping PCR. To generate 35S-RTV1-GFP ft-1 lines, the 35S-RTV1-GFP construct was transformed into ft mutant plants by floral dipping, and then T1 generation plants were selected by selective antibiotic-containing medium, followed by flowering time determination.  EMSAs were performed as described by Despres et al. (CITATION). DNA fragments of FLC, SOC1, FT, VRN2, and DFR promoters 400 bp upstream of their start codons were generated by PCR amplification and confirmed by sequencing. 100 ng of double-stranded synthetic nucleotides were radiolabeled using T4 polynucleotide kinase. EMSA reactions were performed at room temperature for 30 min in 15 μl of EMSA buffer (20 mm Hepes-KOH, pH 7.9, 100 mm KCl, 2 mm DTT, and 20% glycerol) containing 1 μl (20,000 cpm) of the labeled nucleotides and 0–2 μg of RTV1. In addition, 100 nm XLG2C, 10 mm Ca2+, and 1 mm GTPγS were added with the buffer in some reactions. EMSA reactions were loaded onto a 5% Tris-borate EDTA-polyacrylamide gel and run at 8 V/cm for 90 min. After electrophoresis, the gel was dried and subjected to autoradiography at −80 °C using Eastman Kodak Co. x-ray film.  ChIP assays were carried out (Johnson and Bresnick (CITATION)) as described by Heo et al. (CITATION), following the protocol of Gendrel et al. (CITATION). Chromatin proteins and DNA were cross-linked in 10-day-old Col, 35S-RTV1(13) and 35S-XLG2(1) RTV1 seedlings by formaldehyde fixation. Chromatin was isolated using the same extraction buffers as in Heo and Sung (CITATION) and Gendrel et al. (CITATION). Chromatin size postsonication was 500–800 bp, as confirmed by agarose gel electrophoresis (not shown). Chromatin immunoprecipitation was performed using anti-FLAG (Sigma; catalog no. F1804) or anti-GFP (Molecular Probes; catalog no. A11122) antibodies. Cross-links were reversed by incubation at 65 °C for 6 h, and DNA was purified with QIAquick spin columns (Qiagen) and eluted in 50 μl of Tris-HCl EDTA (pH 8.0). PCR was used to amplify fragments of the FT, SOC1, and FLC promoters as used in EMSAs. The relative -fold increase of retrieved DNAs was calculated as follows: first, relative enrichment of each fragment was calculated by comparison with the input (chromatin sample before immunoprecipitation). Second, the background levels of retrieved DNAs were calculated by measuring ACTIN2 enrichment compared with input. Third, relative levels of each retrieved fragment were calculated using the formula, CT = CT(each gene) − CT(ACTIN2). Last, relative levels in Col were set equal to 1 in all cases, and -fold change relative to Col was calculated. Primers are given in supplemental Table 1. 
