!~ABS~! Plastoglobules (PGs) in chloroplasts are thylakoid-associated monolayer lipoprotein particles containing prenyl and neutral lipids and several dozen proteins mostly with unknown functions. An integrated view of the role of the PG is lacking. Here, we better define the PG proteome and provide a conceptual framework for further studies. The PG proteome from Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) leaf chloroplasts was determined by mass spectrometry of isolated PGs and quantitative comparison with the proteomes of unfractionated leaves, thylakoids, and stroma. Scanning electron microscopy showed the purity and size distribution of the isolated PGs. Compared with previous PG proteome analyses, we excluded several proteins and identified six new PG proteins, including an M48 metallopeptidase and two Absence of bc1 complex (ABC1) atypical kinases, confirmed by immunoblotting. This refined PG proteome consisted of 30 proteins, including six ABC1 kinases and seven fibrillins together comprising more than 70% of the PG protein mass. Other fibrillins were located predominantly in the stroma or thylakoid and not in PGs; we discovered that this partitioning can be predicted by their isoelectric point and hydrophobicity. A genome-wide coexpression network for the PG genes was then constructed from mRNA expression data. This revealed a modular network with four distinct modules that each contained at least one ABC1K and/or fibrillin gene. Each module showed clear enrichment in specific functions, including chlorophyll degradation/senescence, isoprenoid biosynthesis, plastid proteolysis, and redox regulators and phosphoregulators of electron flow. We propose a new testable model for the PGs, in which sets of genes are associated with specific PG functions.
!~RES~! As starting material for our study, we grew Arabidopsis plants on soil for 2.5 weeks at 120 μmol photons m−2 s−1 and transferred them to 520 μmol m−2 s−1 for 5 d. The higher light intensity increased PG volume and yield and made them more amenable for experimental analysis (CITATION). The mild light stress treatment accelerated vegetative growth, increased anthocyanin accumulation in the leaves, and resulted in only minor visible damage at the edges of the oldest leaves but no damage to younger leaves (Supplemental Fig. S1). Isolation of PGs from the Arabidopsis leaf rosettes was performed by sonication of isolated thylakoid membranes followed by flotation density centrifugation (CITATION). The enrichment of PGs was confirmed by immunodetection of the VTE1 protein (Fig. 1A), known to be uniquely localized in the PG as determined by yellow fluorescent protein localization and immunogold labeling (CITATION), immunoelectron tomography (CITATION), and proteomics (CITATION; CITATION). Densitometric analysis of the immunoblots indicated a more than 400-fold enrichment of VTE1 in the PG preparations compared with the original thylakoid membranes (the starting material). We also measured an approximately 4-fold depletion of VTE1 in thylakoids following sonication, indicating that approximately 75% of the PG material is extracted from the thylakoids by sonication (Fig. 1B). Hence, our results demonstrate that the isolated PGs were highly enriched for PG particles and that the majority of the PGs were successfully extracted from the thylakoid membrane. [[FIGURE]] Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) of PGs in vivo demonstrated a broad size distribution, even within the same chloroplast (CITATION); however, the relationship between PG size and the PG proteome is not known. For a correct and meaningful quantitative and qualitative analysis of the PG proteome, therefore, it was critical to extract PGs representing the entire in vivo population, without bias for size or other (unknown) properties, while keeping contamination from thylakoids and other compartments to a minimum. Therefore, we compared the size distribution of the extracted PG particles with the in vivo size distribution. TEM of the leaf tissue showed a broad distribution of PG sizes, with diameters ranging from approximately 175 nm to approximately 600 nm, and peaking between 250 and 350 nm (Fig. 1, C and D). PG preparations were analyzed by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and also showed a broad size distribution from approximately 50 nm to approximately 600 nm, peaking between 100 and 250 nm (Fig. 1, C and E). This demonstrated that PGs of all physiologically relevant sizes were extracted efficiently, with a small bias to smaller particles. Interestingly, the micrographs of PG preparations sometimes showed PGs in grape-like clusters, similar to those described in TEM micrographs of leaves (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; Supplemental Fig. S2, A and B). Despite the clustering found in the preparations, each PG clearly maintained its individual structure, and they did not coalesce. Apparently, component(s) at the PG-solution interface act to maintain PG structural integrity and are extractable with the PGs, likely a FBN coat surrounding the PG periphery. Evidence of minor amounts of thylakoid membrane fragments was also found in the micrographs. While the isolated PGs demonstrated remarkably smooth surfaces, SEM also showed infrequent amorphous structures generally attached to PGs (Supplemental Fig. S2C). The size of these structures, the presence of attached PGs, and their amorphous shape suggested that they are thylakoid membrane fragments. Importantly, these amorphous structures were far less abundant than the PGs, indicating high PG purity, which was further confirmed by the proteomics experiments (see below). Summarizing, our results demonstrate that more than approximately 75% of the PGs, from all physiologically relevant sizes, were successfully extracted from the thylakoid membrane into highly enriched PG preparations. The first comprehensive PG proteome analyses were carried out using a quadrupole time of flight mass spectrometer (CITATION) or a LCQ Deca XP ion trap mass spectrometer (CITATION). Recent improvements in the sensitivity, mass accuracy, and speed of mass spectrometers have enabled the detection of lower abundance proteins in complex mixtures and also facilitated mass spectrometry-based label-free proteome quantification using spectral counting (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Thus, a much more sensitive and quantitative analysis of the PG proteome should now be possible. The spectral counting technique is based on the observation that the number of successful tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) acquisitions of peptides coming from a protein shows a positive and linear correlation to the relative concentration of this protein in the studied sample (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Spectral counting is particularly effective to detect large quantitative differences, as expected in our study, where we compare (sub)cellular or suborganellar fractions that are very different in function and composition. We previously optimized the spectral counting (SPC) workflow and tested it for Arabidopsis and maize (Zea mays) organelles, cell types and complexes (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The relative normalized abundance (relative mass contribution) of each protein within each sample, NadjSPC, was calculated from the number of adjusted matched MS/MS spectra (adjSPC), normalized to the total adjSPC per sample, as defined previously (CITATION). Thus, a protein with NadjSPC = 0.01 contributes approximately 1% of the protein mass of the analyzed sample. As a general rule, the accuracy of quantification improves with the number of adjSPC per protein. Here, we employed an LTQ-Orbitrap mass spectrometer (CITATION) coupled to a nano-liquid chromatography (nanoLC) system to search for additional, more low-abundance proteins located in the PG. Moreover, we reevaluated previous assignments of proteins to the PG (CITATION; CITATION) based on quantitative comparative proteome information. Using three independent PG preparations, the PG proteome was analyzed in two different ways: (1) PG proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE, each lane cut in five slices, and in-gel digested with trypsin, and (2) unfractionated PGs were delipidized and digested in-solution with trypsin. These protein digests were then analyzed by MS/MS in the LTQ-Orbitrap (Fig. 2A). The rationale for using these two different protein extraction/separation methods was to (1) maximize the detection of low-abundance proteins, (2) increase the robustness of protein quantification, and (3) improve protein sequence coverage. Proteins identified by only a single peptide sequence, irrespective of posttranslational modification or charge state, were discarded to increase the robustness of the analysis and avoid any false-positive protein identification; these proteins represented less than 1% of the protein mass in PGs. [[FIGURE]] The combined proteome analysis identified 234 proteins, with 129 identified by both in-solution and in-gel workflows and six or 99 proteins identified in only the in-solution or in-gel digestion, respectively (Fig. 2A; for details, see Supplemental Table S1). The 129 proteins identified by both methods represented approximately 99% of the PG protein mass, showing that only the least abundant proteins were not identified by both methods. The in-solution and in-gel methods showed a good correlation for the relative protein abundance for proteins with abundance of greater than 0.001 (i.e. proteins that each represent more than 0.1% of the protein mass of the PGs; Fig. 2B, gray area). Protein sequence coverage was on average 26% for the in-gel method and 16% for the in-solution method; this increased to 37% and 27%, respectively, if we only considered the 129 proteins identified by both methods. The correlation of the average NadjSPC values (combining both in-gel and in-solution data) between the three biological replicates was excellent, with pairwise correlation coefficients between 0.902 and 0.960 (Fig. 2C). We then determined those proteins highly enriched in the PGs, hereafter named the “core” PG proteome, using the workflow as depicted in Figure 3A. The core PG proteins were distinguished from nonplastid contaminants or proteins localized primarily elsewhere in the chloroplast by comparing the abundance in PGs with their average abundance in total leaf extracts (five biological replicates with two replicates from CITATION and three from this study) and isolated thylakoid and stromal fractions (CITATION). Supplemental Table S2 provides the quantitative and qualitative data about these proteomes. Furthermore, core PG proteins were required to have a minimal abundance (NadjSPC > 0.001) and can be observed in the PGs by both in-gel and in-solution methods (Fig. 3A). [[FIGURE]] For the selection of core PG proteins, we first discarded those proteins with a PG-leaf abundance ratio below 10; only 52 proteins out of the 234 proteins passed this first filter. We emphasize that this was a relatively “relaxed” minimal threshold, considering that the PG proteome represents less than 10% of the leaf proteome; however, this was already very effective to remove nonplastid contaminants as well as the abundant proteins of the photosynthetic apparatus and other proteins not truly enriched in PGs. Importantly, it also removed several proteins that were earlier assigned to the PG, including fructose bisphosphate aldolase 1 and 2 (FBPA-1 and -2; CITATION; CITATION). Furthermore, FBN3a and FBN10 were also eliminated, because they showed PG-leaf abundance ratios of only 0.9 and 4.7, respectively (Table I; Supplemental Table S1). The relative abundance and distribution of the remaining 52 proteins between PGs, thylakoids, and stroma are displayed in Figure 3, B and C. As a next step, we removed proteins that failed to show at least a 5-fold enrichment in the isolated PGs compared with the thylakoid (Fig. 3A). This resulted in the removal of four proteins: a DnaJ domain protein, a glutaredoxin, a protein with an unknown function (AT5G62140), and AOS (Fig. 3B). Finally, four proteins with a PG-stroma abundance ratio below 20 were discarded: these were thioredoxin M4 (Trx M4), UV-B/ozone similarly regulated protein (UOS1), an unknown protein with a DUF1350 domain, and FBPA-3 (Fig. 3B). The remaining 44 proteins were then evaluated for abundance and frequency of identification in the PG proteome analysis (Fig. 3C). Twelve proteins with a relative abundance below NadjSPC of 0.001 (corresponding to 0.1% or less of the protein mass; Fig. 3C), or only identified by one of the methods, were discarded. (We note that none of these proteins were coexpressers of the PG core genes [see below].) Finally, we manually evaluated the remaining 32 proteins for known subcellular localization and/or function. Two proteins were discarded from the core proteome based on literature evidence. The extraplastidic caleosin protein RD20 (AT2G33380) has been shown to be localized in cytosolic lipoprotein particles (CITATION), while a PLAT/LH2 domain protein (AT2G22170) is likely endoplasmic reticulum localized based on GFP tagging (http://gfp.stanford.edu/index.html). Thus, these proteins were removed from the final list. Because the PGs were isolated from plants shifted for 5 d to higher light intensities (520 μmol photons m−2 s−1), we also determined and quantified the total leaf proteome of these plants (three independent replicates; Supplemental Table S2). However, using these quantitative total leaf proteome data in the workflow (Fig. 3A) did not affect the final selection of core PG proteins. Table II summarizes the core PG proteome with their relative abundance (including the coefficient of variation [CV]) and enrichment as compared with other plastid compartments. The CV of protein abundance across the three biological replicates was 24%, indicating an excellent reproducibility. Twenty-three of the 30 core proteins were previously assigned to the PG (CITATION; CITATION), with 18 identified in both studies (Table II). VTE1 showed a PG-thylakoid ratio of 131, consistent with the high ratio determined by the immunoblot analysis (Fig. 1A), and was not detected in chloroplast stroma. Another seven proteins were newly identified as plastoglobular, namely two ABC1 kinases (ABC1K6 and -7), a PLAT/LH2 domain protein (PLAT/LH2-1), an esterase-domain protein (Esterase1), two proteins of unknown function (Unknown-2 with DUF1350 and unknown SAG), and a metallopeptidase M48 domain protein. Six of these seven proteins are the lowest abundance proteins of the core PG proteome (Table II), explaining their previous lack of detection. Thirteen proteins previously assigned to the PG did not pass our filters (Table II); these were AOS, FBPA-1,2,3, FBN3a, two RNA-associated proteins (Rap38 and -41), an ATPase, WAVE3, peroxiredoxin Q (PrxQ), and three proteins of unknown function (see “Discussion”). The four most abundant proteins were all FBN proteins (FBN1a, -1b, -2, and -4) and were also found previously to be the homologs of the FBNs in red pepper (Capsicum annuum) chromoplast PGs (CITATION), suggesting that they may hold a general function in the maintenance of plastid lipid body structure. The six FBN core proteins constituted 53% of the PG proteome mass (Fig. 3D). The second most abundant class of core proteins consisted of six ABC1 kinases, together constituting 19% of the core PG proteome mass. The original ABC1K proteins, identified in Saccharomyces cerevisiae (Abc1p/Coq8p) and E. coli (UbiB), are implicated in the regulation of ubiquinone metabolism (CITATION; CITATION). In particular, the phosphorylation of several members of the ubiquinone biosynthetic complex is dependent on Abc1p/Coq8p (CITATION). However, the role and possible targets of the PG-localized ABC1K proteins are unknown. Carotenoid Cleavage Dioxygenase4 (CCD4), with specificity for 8′-apo-β-caroten-8′-al in Arabidopsis (CITATION), was 3.3% of the proteome mass. The VTE1 protein, involved in tocopherol biosynthesis (CITATION), was 2.6% of the proteome mass, and NAD(P)H Dehydrogenase C1 (NDC1), which reduces plastoquinone to plastoquinol and is necessary for phylloquinone synthesis (CITATION), was 2.5% of the proteome mass. The M48 protein was only 0.3% of the proteome mass (Table II). To further validate our quantitative proteomics analysis, we generated specific antisera against three PG core proteins, ABC1K1, ABC1K3, and the low-abundance M48 protease, because of its novelty as a potential PG-localized protease. Specific polyclonal antisera were raised against affinity-purified E. coli overexpressed domains of each of the three proteins. After confirming the specificity of the sera, we compared isolated thylakoid fractions and isolated PGs for protein abundance of M48, ABC1K1, and ABC1K3 using immunoblots. Figure 4 shows that ABC1K3, ABC1K1, and M48 were approximately 10-, 20-, and more than 50-fold enriched in isolated PGs compared with (untreated) thylakoids, in agreement with the PG-thylakoid abundance ratios of 11, 16, and 17, respectively, measured by mass spectrometry (Table II). This provides independent evidence that metallopeptidase M48 and the two ABC1K proteins are highly enriched in the PG and indicates that our mass spectrometry-based quantitative analysis does provide reliable information about the core PG proteome. [[FIGURE]] We identified all 12 known FBNs, as well as a FBN-like protein (AT1G18060), in our collective proteome data sets of leaves, chloroplast stroma, thylakoids, and PGs (Table I; Supplemental Tables S1 and S2). However, we assigned only seven FBNs to the PG core proteome, based on our quantitative analysis (Fig. 3A), because the other FBNs did not preferentially locate to PGs. Therefore, we searched for physical-chemical properties of the FBN protein family that correlated with subplastid localization. We also included two truncation products of FBN7a, FBN7a (1–133) and FBN7a (1–290), whose localizations were determined by yellow fluorescent protein tagging as localized to the stroma and PG, respectively (CITATION). The combination of pI and hydrophobicity, calculated as the grand average of hydropathicity (GRAVY) index, for each of the FBNs correlated surprisingly well with their relative distribution between stroma, thylakoids, and PG (Fig. 5; Table I). The FBN proteins could be placed in one of four groups: (1) strongly enriched in the PG (at least 10-fold), (2) equal enrichment between the PG and thylakoid (PG-thylakoid ratio of approximately 1), (3) strongly enriched in the thylakoid as compared with PG (more than 10-fold), and (4) stroma localized, not identified in PG or thylakoids. All seven PG-localized FBNs, as well as the truncated FBN7a (1–290), were found to display low pIs and (on average) higher hydrophobicity indices. Conversely, all four FBNs strongly enriched in the thylakoid membrane fraction displayed higher pIs and lower hydrophobicity indices. Importantly, FBN10, the only FBN with an approximately equal ratio between PG and thylakoid (PG-thylakoid ratio of 1.8) showed intermediate pI and hydrophobicity index. Finally, the stroma-localized FBN5 and FBN7a (1–133) demonstrated low pI and the lowest hydrophobicity indices of the 16 protein products. The pI and GRAVY index, however, did not predict subplastid localization of other members of the core PG proteome, likely because they have very diverse secondary structures. [[FIGURE]] Because the functions of most PG proteins are unknown and hard to predict, we employed a genome-wide transcript coexpression analysis to identify putative functions for the PG core proteins, identify potential targets for the ABC1K proteins, generate testable hypotheses, and provide a better framework for further studies. Several coexpression analysis tools have been developed and employed in plant coexpression analysis, each offering its own suite of functions and set of normalized microarray experiments (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We tested and compared three different publicly available coexpression tools, MetaOmGraph (CITATION), the Botany Array Resource (BAR; CITATION), and the Arabidopsis Coexpression data-mining Tool (ACT; CITATION), for their ability to identify coexpression relationships among functionally and physically associated gene products. Using the well-studied gene family encoding for the ClpPR protease complex in plastids and mitochondria (CITATION) and 10 genes encoding for enzymes involved in tetrapyrrole biosynthesis, we first demonstrated that although the three software programs, MetaOmGraph, BAR, and ACT, show quantitative differences in coexpression rankings, true coexpressers were consistently found (Supplemental Text S1; Supplemental Fig. S3). We also tested to see if PG core genes preferentially expressed with other PG core genes rather than genes encoding for plastid proteins in general or with genes encoding for extraplastidic proteins. This showed that PG core genes generally preferentially coexpress with other PG genes at higher Pearson correlation coefficient (PCC; Supplemental Text S1; Supplemental Fig. S4). Importantly, these tests also showed that genes encoding for plastid proteins are clearly not coexpressed as a single group; thus, we should be able to find specific coexpression patterns for PG core proteins. The selection of test sets, procedures, and results is described in more detail in the Supplemental Text S1. We chose to employ the MetaOmGraph program to investigate the PG coexpression network because of its user-friendly nature and validated the final results with the other two programs. We discarded from the analysis those probes measuring multiple genes to ensure that we were testing specific gene-gene coexpression relationships. The resulting set contained 21,158 Affymetrix microarray probes, including 25 of the 30 PG core genes. PG core genes FBN1a and -1b, as well as DGAT4, had to be excluded because they were not represented by unique probes (see “Discussion”), whereas the SOUL and Esterase1 genes were not represented on the microarrays. A PG network was constructed from a genome-wide search for each of the 25 PG core genes on the Affymetrix microarray. Some of the PG genes, e.g. FBN2 and -4, aldo/keto reductase (AKred), Unknown-2, had several hundred coexpressing genes above a PCC threshold of 0.7 (or in some cases even above 0.8), whereas other genes (ABC1K7, UbiE-2, M48, DGAT3, unknown SAG) had none above that threshold. Therefore, we used the 20 strongest coexpressing genes for each PG core gene to construct a PG network, rather than applying a minimal PCC threshold. All such coexpression relationships had a PCC above 0.65, with the exception of the PLAT/LH2 domain protein and the SAG protein with unknown function. Strong negative correlations between genes can be relevant; however, negative PCC values never exceeded an absolute value of 0.67, and therefore only positive correlations became part of the PG network. The resulting network contained 374 nodes (genes) and 500 edges (coexpression interactions; Fig. 6). Of the 374 nodes, 201 (54%) were assigned to the plastid based on experimental information (Supplemental Table S3). Interestingly, the PG core proteins differed strongly in the subcellular localization of their coexpressers. For instance, in the case of the five FBNs, NDC1, ABC1K3, and several others, 17 to 20 out of 20 of the coexpressers were plastid localized; however, core proteins VTE1, UbiE1, DGAT3, and PLAT/LH2 domain protein each had three or fewer plastid-localized coexpressers. This immediately suggests that the latter proteins are primarily posttranscriptionally regulated or that their transcriptional regulation is integrated with extraplastidic functions and needs. [[FIGURE]] To better assign functions to the PG core genes and the PG as a whole, coexpressing genes were categorized by their assigned functional category (using the MapMan bin system as the basis to organize the functions), and edges connecting to each bin were counted. Because some bins were much larger than others and thus had a much greater opportunity to be represented in the PG network, we normalized the representation of each bin by its size. As indicated in Table III, a strong enrichment was found for plastid-localized proteases (17 in total; LON, Prep1, EGY2, FtsH1, -2, -5, -8, -9, ClpR2, -R3, -P4, -P5, -P6, -S, -C1, -D, DegP1 and -8), proteins involved in cyclic/alternative electron flow (five NDH subunits; PGR5, PGRL1A and -B, PTOX, PIFI), and regulators of the light reaction state transition kinase (STN7 and phosphatase TAP38), plastid-localized isoprenoid metabolism (in particular carotenoid metabolism; PDS, ZDS, LYC-β, zeaxanthin epoxidase [ZEP]), chlorophyll degradation (pheophorbide a oxygenase [PaO]/ACD1, pheophytinase [PPH], ACD2), and plastid redox regulation (Trx-M1, -2, -4, Trx-F1, Fd-Trx reductase subunits, NADPH reductase, PrxQ, and others; Table III; Supplemental Table S3). To further substantiate the findings from the MetaOmGraph coexpression analysis, we analyzed the functional enrichment of the top 20 coexpressers using the two other software programs, BAR and ACT (Supplemental Tables S3 and S4). Clearly, the distribution of functional groups was consistent between all three programs, strengthening the significance of the MetaOmGraph analysis. The coexpression network showed that most core genes had associations with other PG genes, producing a gene expression network with four clusters of nodes, which we refer to as “modules.” Modules are parts of biological networks in which nodes are densely connected with each other but between which there are only sparse connections. Thus, within each of these modules, genes coexpress more tightly to each other than with genes outside the module (Fig. 6; Table III). The modular nature is an important property of biological networks. As will be detailed below, the four modules each showed enrichment for specific functions. The remainder of the PG core genes (FRed-1, UbiE-1, PLAT/LH2-1, and VTE1) had no or weaker associations with other PG genes (Fig. 6); moreover, they had in common that most of their coexpressers encoded for extraplastidic proteins. Module 1, with four PG core genes (DGAT3, ABC1K7, SAG, and M48 metalloprotease), was enriched for senescence functions, in particular chlorophyll degradation (PaO and PPH) and a variety of proteases outside the plastid (including a senescence-associated Cys protease), as well as the senescence-induced Clp protease chaperone ClpD1. The two chlorophyll degradation enzymes coexpressed with ABC1K7 and SAG (Fig. 6, nodes 1 and 2), and we note that a third, more downstream enzyme (red chlorophyll catabolite reductase), was found in module 3 coexpressing with FBN4. Strikingly, only 35% of the edges in module 1 were plastid localized, compared with 71% to 95% for the other modules, consistent with the observation that senescence leads to controlled breakdown of the whole cell, and is not limited to plastids. We also point out an interesting plastid-localized putative Tyr kinase that coexpressed with both DGAT3 and ABC1K7 (Fig. 6, node 18). The role for M48 protease is completely unknown, and its coexpressers included five plastid proteins with unknown function and four plastid-localized proteins: PPH, ClpR3, thylakoid alternative oxidase (PTOX), and a glutaredoxin thioredoxin. The most extensive module (module 2) was centrally located in the PG network and comprised eight PG genes (ABC1K-1, -3, -6, aldo/keto reductase, NDC1, flavin reductase 2, CCD4, UbiE-2). It was particularly enriched for carotenoid metabolism enzymes (for the complete pathway and the connections to coexpressers, see Supplemental Fig. S5) and plastid proteases (22 edges); 71% of the nodes encoded for plastid proteins, indicating tight integration with plastid functions (Table III; Fig. 6). In addition to the plastid carotenoid enzymes, also upstream cytosolic solanesyl diphosphate synthase (SPS1) and its plastid isoform (SPS2; responsible for synthesizing the hydrophobic tail of plastoquinone [PQ9]) were part of this module (we note that MEP pathway enzymes are only found in module 4). Interestingly, GOLDEN2-LIKE1 transcription factor, known to coregulate the expression of a suite of nuclear photosynthetic genes (CITATION), was also part of this module as a coexpresser of CCD4. Within module 2, ABC1K3, AKRed, and NDC1 were particularly tightly connected, mostly through coexpressing plastid proteases. The top 20 coexpressers of ABC1K3 were almost exclusively involved in carotenoid metabolism (ZEP, PDS, ZDS, CCD1) and protein degradation (FtsH1, -2, -5, -8, -9, ClpR3 and ClpC, PREP1, DegP1) but also included thylakoid kinase STN7, involved in the phosphorylation of LHC proteins facilitating state transitions to optimize electron flow (CITATION). The third module involved five PG core genes (ABC1K9, FBN2, -4, -7a, and Unknown-1) and was particularly enriched in redox regulators and “photoacclimation.” Eighty-nine percent of the edges encoded for assigned plastid proteins. The module was highly enriched for plastid redox regulators (including thioredoxins M1, -2, -4, and F-1, two Fd-Trx reductase subunits, glutaredoxins) and nonlinear electron flow components (NDH, PGRL1A, PIFI) as well as several plastid proteases (ClpR2, -P5, -S, DegP1, FtsH2; Fig. 6). Also, the thylakoid phosphatase TAP38 and the gene coding for the “acclimation of photosynthesis to environment” were part of this module. The fourth and smallest module contained PG core proteins FBN7b and Unknown-2 and was strongly enriched for proteins involved in various aspects of plastid biogenesis, including proteases, and the Calvin cycle. Remarkably, PG core protein Unknown-2 coexpressed with six different Calvin cycle genes (FBPase, FBPA, sedoheptulose-bisphosphatase, phosphoribulokinase, G3P-DH, phosphoglycerate kinase) as well as the catalytic subunit of Gly decarboxylase, critical for photorespiration. FBN7b appears to be involved in plastid/thylakoid biogenesis; among its top coexpressers are genes coding for THYLAKOID FORMATION1, vesicle-inducing protein in plastids, plastid division protein Giant Chloroplasts1, and several genes of protein synthesis, assembly, folding, and targeting. MEP enzymes IspF and HDS were also found in module 4 as coexpressers of FBN-2 and -4 and ABC1K9. FBN8 was positioned between modules 2 and 4, and its coexpressers (all 20 were plastid localized) were enriched in plastid biogenesis, photosynthesis, and several proteins without known function. ABC1K5 connected to both modules 2 and 4, and its coexpressers (16 were plastid localized) were enriched in NDH subunits, transporters, and various unknowns. It is important to note that only one of the genes (CF1-γ) encoding for known structural proteins of the linear electron transport chain and ATP synthase (e.g. PSI or PSII, the cytb6f complex, or ATP synthase) coexpressed with the PG core genes. However two of the three known genes that control state transitions (both STN7 and TAP38) and several structural components of cyclic (NDH and PGR components) or alternative (PTOX) electron flow were part of the coexpression network. This suggests that the PG function is tightly integrated with cyclic electron flow or the balance between PSI and PSII activity. We note that four lumenal OEC-23-like proteins with unknown function, as well as two unusual low-abundance LHCI-5 and LHCII-7 proteins (AT1G45474 and AT1G76570), were found as coexpressers, suggesting that they have functions related to optimization of the light reactions under stress conditions. Indeed, LHCI-5 is a component of the PSI-NDH supercomplex and necessary for its formation and stability, particularly under times of stress (CITATION). The coexpression profile was found to be very similar to that of NPQ4 (PsbS) and LIL3 involved in chlorophyll or tocopherol biosynthesis (CITATION). LHCII-7 was found to be up-regulated in response to light stress (CITATION) and blue or far-red light treatment (CITATION). Three of the PG core proteins were not placed in the coexpression network because they were on the same probe (on the microarrays) as a close homolog. Indeed, evaluation of DGAT4 on the same probe as a closely related nonplastid homolog (AT3G26820) showed that the top 20 coexpressers were mostly involved with senescence but not in the plastid, and they did not connect well to the PG network However, homologs FBN1a and -b, both PG core proteins and together on a single probe spot, connected tightly in the network, with coexpression with core protein ABC1K3 and its coexpressers RbcX and FtsH8, and also coexpressing with RD20 and POT, both coexpressers of ABC1K7. Thus, FBN1a/b is located in the network between module 1 and module 2. The coexpression network suggested that a subset of the PG-localized proteins (module 1) is involved in senescence responses. Therefore, we tested for five genes (ACD1, PPH, DGAT3, ABC1K7, and Metal Chelating Substance [MCS]) from module 1 whether transcript accumulation was indeed up-regulated during natural senescence. As a control, we also tested two genes from module 4 (ABC1K9 and FBN4) that have no obvious senescence association in the network. To that end, Arabidopsis rosette leaves were harvested during bolting and flowering, during which leaves show increased visual signs of natural leaf senescence. Because PGs are found to accumulate fatty acid phytyl esters, with the phytol generated by breakdown of chlorophyll (CITATION), the uncharacterized esterase identified in our PG core proteome is an excellent candidate enzyme for the esterification of free phytol at the PG. The flux into phytol esterification would be expected to be highest during senescence-induced chlorophyll degradation, and we thus tested whether expression of the esterase, which is not represented on the 22K microarrays, is also senescence induced. Reverse transcription-PCR experiments were then carried out on three biological replicates (Fig. 7). Indeed, expression of the five genes from the senescence-associated module 1 and the esterase, but not the two genes from module 4, is induced by senescence, thus providing support for our coexpression network and our hypothesized functions for the esterase and MCS gene products. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The PG isolation method was adapted from CITATION. For each PG preparation, two flats (approximately 150 individuals) of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana; ecotype Columbia [Col-0]) were grown on soil for 2.5 weeks under 120 μmol photons m−2 s−1 with a 16-h photoperiod. Plants were then transferred to 520 μmol photons m−2 s−1 during the dark period. In the morning of day 6, leaf tissue was harvested and homogenized in grinding buffer (50 mm HEPES-KOH, pH 8.0, 5 mm MgCl2, 100 mm sorbitol, 5 mm ascorbic acid, 5 mm reduced Cys, and 0.05% [w/v] bovine serum albumin). Homogenate was filtered through four layers of 20-μm Miracloth, and thylakoid membranes were pelleted by centrifugation for 6 min at 1,800g. Thylakoid pellets were washed once in 4 volumes of grinding buffer and resuspended in medium R (50 mm HEPES-KOH, pH 8.0, 5 mm MgCl2, and a cocktail of protease inhibitors) containing 0.2 m Suc. An aliquot of resuspended thylakoid material was stored at −80°C to be used as the presonicated thylakoid fraction. The remainder was sonicated four times for 5 s each at output power of 23 W (Fisher Scientific; sonic dismembrator model 100), returning the samples to ice between each sonication event. Sonicated samples were centrifuged for 30 min at 150,000g, and PGs released from the thylakoid floated to the surface of the solution. PGs were removed and combined with medium R with 0.7 m Suc to achieve a Suc concentration of 0.5 m, which was then overlaid with medium R with 0.2 m Suc and medium R with no Suc. The gradient was centrifuged for 90 min at 150,000g. The resulting floating pad of PGs was removed, flash frozen in liquid N2, and stored at −80°C. Nucleotide sequences encoding the soluble part of the M48 protein (amino acids 72–325) and the C termini of ABC1K3 (556–711) and ABC1K1 (578–582) were amplified by PCR. The resulting DNA fragments were ligated into restriction sites of the pET21a expression vector, coding for a C-terminal His affinity tag. The vector was transformed into BL21 Escherichia coli cells, and overexpressed protein was harvested from liquid culture after incubation in 1 mm isopropylthio-β-galactoside for 3 h at 37°C. Proteins were solubilized in 200 mm NaCl, 50 mm Tris, and 8 m urea at pH 8 and purified on a nickel-nitrotriacetic acid agarose resin matrix, and polyclonal antibodies were raised in rabbits by injecting purified antigen. Protein concentrations were estimated by the bicinchoninic acid (BCA) method (CITATION) using a BCA kit (Pierce). Protein samples were solubilized in 1× Laemmli buffer (125 mm Tris-HCl, pH 6.8, 2% SDS, 5% β-mercaptoethanol, and 10% glycerol), heated for 10 min at 75°C, and separated on an SDS-PAGE gel (6% acrylamide stacking, 12% separation). Proteins were blotted to nitrocellulose, probed with purified anti-peptidase M48, anti-ABC1K3, anti-ABC1K1, or anti-VTE1 serum (a gift of Dr. Dean DellaPenna), and visualized by the horseradish peroxidase-based enhanced chemiluminescence system. Densitometric analysis of relevant spots was performed using the ImageJ software program (http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/). Leaf tissue from three individuals of each genotype at each time point was harvested 1 h after the beginning of the photoperiod. Leaf margins and midribs were excluded, and the remaining leaf tissue was divided into 1- × 2-mm sections with a fresh razor blade. Sections were fixed in 2% glutaraldehyde, 2% paraformaldehyde, 0.1% tannic acid, and 70 mm PIPES buffer, pH 6.8, for 2 h and then washed three times in 70 mm PIPES buffer, pH 6.8. Tissues were fixed in 1% osmium tetroxide (OsO4) and 70 mm PIPES, pH 6.8, for 2 h and washed three times in 70 mm PIPES, pH 6.8. Tissues were then stained in 2% uranyl acetate for 1 h and washed twice in ultrapure water. Fixed and stained tissues were carried through an acetone series of increasing concentrations. Dehydrated tissue was then embedded with Spurr’s resin (Electron Microscopy Sciences) in increasing concentrations of resin in acetone, according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Fully embedded tissue was cured in resin blocks at 60°C overnight. Cured resin blocks were sectioned and imaged at Electron Microscopy Services. Two to 3 μL of purified PG sample was spotted onto a silica wafer. A 3-μL drop of 2% OsO4 in 70 mm potassium phosphate, pH 7.2, was added to the 3-μL drop of the PG sample on the silica wafer. The buffered OsO4 was allowed to remain in contact with the PGs for 1 h at 4°C. After 1 h, the wafers were floated on a droplet of 70 mm potassium phosphate buffer at pH 7.2 for 10 min. This was done three times at 4°C. The wafers were then floated on drops of 2% glutaraldehyde in 70 mm potassium phosphate, pH 7.2, for 1 h at 4°C. After 1 h, the wafers were floated on drops of 70 mm potassium phosphate, pH 7.2, for 10 min at 4°C. The wafers were then floated on drops of distilled water for 10 min at 4°C. The wafers were dehydrated by floating on first 25%, then 50%, then 75%, then 95%, and finally 100% ethanol for approximately 10 min each at 4°C. The wafers were then critical point dried in 100% ethanol (Bal Tec; Leica Microsystems), mounted on specimen supports, and sputter coated with gold/palladium (Denton Vacuum). The wafers were viewed at 3 kV in a Hitachi S4500 scanning electron microscope (Hitachi High Technologies). For in-solution digestion, isolated PGs were precipitated in 10% TCA overnight at 4°C. Precipitated proteins were pelleted by centrifugation and washed once with 100% acetone and once with 80% acetone, 10% methanol, and 0.1% acetic acid by incubating at −20°C for 1.5 h each. Washed pellets were resuspended in dimethyl sulfoxide and quantified by the BCA method (CITATION) using a BCA kit (Pierce). Five micrograms of protein was digested with modified trypsin (Promega), 40:1 (protein:trypsin). Salts and detergents were removed by C18 Ziptip (Millipore) and dried down in a Speed-Vac. Digested and washed samples were resuspended in 15 μL of 2% formic acid immediately prior to loading on the LC-MS/MS instrument. For gel-based separation and in-gel digestion, PG samples were lyophilized and solubilized in a modified Laemmli solubilization buffer (125 mm Tris-HCl, pH 6.8, 6% SDS, 10% β-mercaptoethanol, and 20% glycerol). Samples were shaken gently at 30°C for 15 min to ensure complete solubilization and subsequently heated at 80°C for 10 min. Samples were centrifuged to remove insoluble material, and proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE (6% acrylamide stacking, 12% separation). Each gel lane was cut in five slices, and proteins were digested with trypsin, as described (CITATION). Wild-type plants (Col-0) were grown on soil for 30 d under a short-day cycle (10 h/14 h of light/dark) at 120 μmol photons m−2 s−1. The complete leaf rosettes were then harvested, and proteins were immediately quantitatively extracted in the presence of SDS (in triplicate) as described in detail by CITATION. Alternatively, plants were transferred and grown on soil for 2.5 weeks under similar conditions as above, but transferred to 520 μmol photons m−2 s−1 conditions. In the morning of day 6, leaf tissue was harvested and extracted as above (in triplicate). Peptides prepared from in-gel digestion and in-solution digestion were analyzed by data-dependent MS/MS using online LC-LTQ-Orbitrap (Thermo Electron) with dynamic exclusion, as described (CITATION). Peak lists (.mgf format) were generated using DTA supercharge (version 1.19) software (http://msquant.sourceforge.net/) and searched with Mascot version 2.2 (Matrix Science) against a combined database containing the Arabidopsis genome with protein-coding gene models and 187 sequences for known contaminants (e.g. keratin and trypsin; a total of 33,013 entries) and concatenated with a decoy database where all the sequences were randomized; in total, this database contained 66,026 protein sequences. Offline calibration for all precursor ions was done as described by CITATION. Each of the peak lists was searched using Mascot version 2.2 (maximum P = 0.01) for full tryptic peptides using a precursor ion tolerance set at ±6 ppm, fixed Cys carbamido methylation and variable Met oxidation, protein N-terminal acetylation, Asn/Gln deamidation, and maximally one missed cleavage allowed. The maximum fragment ion tolerance (MS/MS) was 0.8 D. For semitryptic peptides, the search was performed with a precursor ion tolerance set at ±3 ppm, fixed Cys carbamido methylation and variable Met oxidation, N-terminal acetylation, Gln deamidation, and maximally one missed cleavage allowed. The minimal ion score threshold was chosen such that a peptide false discovery rate below 1% was achieved. Using an in-house-written filter, the search results were further filtered as follows. For identification with two or more peptides, the minimum ion score threshold was set to 30. For protein identification based on a single peptide, the minimum ion score threshold was set to 33 and the mass accuracy of the precursor ion was required to be within ±3 ppm. The peptide false discovery rate was calculated as 2 × (decoy hits)/(target + decoy hits) and was below 1%. The false discovery rate of proteins identified with two or more peptides was zero. Peptides with less than seven amino acids were discarded. All mass spectral data (the .mgf files reformatted as PRIDE XML files) are available via the Proteomics Identifications database (PRIDE) at http://www.ebi.ac.uk/pride/ with accession numbers 18969 to 18988. Several Arabidopsis genes have more than one gene model, and in such cases the protein form with the highest number of matched spectra was selected; if two gene models had the same number of matched spectra, the model with the lower digit was selected. For quantification, each protein accession was scored for total spectral counts (SPC), unique SPC (uniquely matching to an accession), and adjusted SPC (CITATION). The latter assigns shared peptides to accessions in proportion to their relative abundance using unique spectral counts for each accession as a basis. The NadjSPC for each protein was calculated through division of adjSPC by the sum of all adjSPC values for the proteins from that gel lane. NadjSPC provides a relative protein abundance measure by mass, whereas the normalized spectral abundance factor estimates relative protein concentration within a particular sample, as defined by CITATION. The PCCs of all pairwise combinations between PG (bait) genes and all single-gene probes of the Arabidopsis 22K Affymetrix microarray were calculated using three different software programs: the MetaOmGraph software program (http://metnetdb.org; CITATION), the BAR expression angler (http://142.150.214.117/welcome.htm; CITATION), and the ACT Web site (http://www.arabidopsis.leeds.ac.uk/act/index.php; CITATION). MetaOmGraph analysis used the publicly available Affy.ath1.data1 project containing normalized, averaged Arabidopsis experimental data sets obtained from NASCArrays (http://affymetrix.arabidopsis.info/) and PlexDB (http://plexdb.org) from 71 experiments and 424 microarray chips from diverse environmental and genotypic conditions and tissue types and developmental stages. Correlations were calculated using the Pearson correlation algorithm. Visualization of the MetaOmGraph-derived network was performed in Cytoscape version 2.8.0 (http://cytoscape.org/; CITATION), applying the force-directed layout algorithm. Coexpression analysis using the BAR expression angler was performed for each PG gene by searching in the NASCArrrays 392 data set available at the Web site. Analysis at the ACT Web site was performed for each PG gene by using the “Co-expression analysis over available array experiments” option. Wild-type Arabidopsis Col-0 was grown on soil. Leaf tissue was selected from five time points during the course of natural leaf senescence: 1 = leaf rosette from plants beginning to bolt; 2 = leaf rosette from plants beginning to flower; 3 = senescing leaf approximately 10% chlorotic; 4 = senescing leaf approximately 50% chlorotic; 5 = senescing leaf approximately 50% chlorotic, 1 week later in senescence. Total RNA was extracted from leaf tissue using the RNeasy plant miniprep kit (Qiagen) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Seven hundred nanograms of total RNA was used for the synthesis of cDNA using oligo(dT)20 primer and the SuperScript III cDNA synthesis kit (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. cDNA samples were diluted to equal concentration by normalizing according to amplification of the ACTIN2 gene using 20 cycles. Each gene was then amplified for 25 cycles using an equal volume of template and an appropriate gene-specific primer pair. Signal intensity was quantified using the alpha Imager 2200 version 5.5 software package. The forward and reverse primers are as follows: for PAO/ACD1, 5′-GATGCGAAACTACCAATCGTCG-3′ and 5′-CATCAGAAGGAACACCAGCCG-3′; for PPH, 5′-CAATCATGCTTGCTCCTGGTG-3′ and 5′-CTACCAATCCTGGACTCCTCC-3′; for DGAT3, 5′-GCCAGAGGAGCTTCATTTTACT-3′ and 5′-GGGTATGCCCATTGTCCTT-3′; for ABC1K7, 5′-ATCCGCACCCAGGAAACCTT-3′ and 5′-ACAGATCCTGCCATAGAAAGGAGG-3′; for MCS, 5′-GAAATCGGTGGAGGTGAACC-3′ and 5′-GGTTGGTTGGCTCACATGAT-3′; for ESTERASE, 5′-GCTAACTGCTGTTACCTCCCC-3′ and 5′-CAAACTCCGAATGTTCTGGCC-3′; for ABC1K9, 5′-GCAGCTTGGTCTACTGTCTC-3′ and 5′-CACATTAAGCGCGGTAATAAGG-3′; for FBN4, 5′-TTCTTTCCGACCACCGTTCT-3′ and 5′-ACTTGTGTGCCAATGTCGC-3′; and for ACTIN2, 5′-CAAACGAGGGCTGGAACAAGACT-3′ and 5′-GCAACTGGGATGATATGGAAAAGA-3′. Parameters were calculated by the ProtParam tool (CITATION) available through the ExPasy Web site (http://expasy.org/tools/). Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under the following accession numbers: AT4G04020 (FBN1a), AT3G23400 (FBN4), AT4G22240 (FBN1b), AT2G35490 (FBN2), AT5G05200 (ABC1K9), AT1G79600 (ABC1K3), AT4G31390 (ABC1K1), AT3G58010 (FBN7a), AT4G19170 (CCD4), AT4G32770 (VTE1), AT5G08740 (NDC1), AT1G54570 (DGAT3), AT2G42130 (FBN7b), AT1G32220 (FR-like1), AT4G13200 (Unknown-1), AT2G46910 (FBN8), AT3G10130 (SOUL-like), AT2G41040 (UbiE-like1), AT1G71810 (ABC1K5), AT1G06690 (AKR-like), AT2G34460 (FR-like2), AT1G78140 (UbiE-like2), AT3G26840 (DGAT4), AT3G24190 (ABC1K6), AT4G39730 (PLAT/LH2-1), AT3G43540 (Unknown-2), AT2G22170 (PLAT/LH2-2), AT3G07700 (ABC1K7), AT1G73750 (Unknown SAG), AT3G27110 (M48 metalloprotease), and AT5G41120 (Esterase1). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Five-day light-shifted wild-type Arabidopsis plant, representative of those used in this work. Supplemental Figure S2. Scanning electron micrographs of PG preparations. Supplemental Figure S3. Coexpression within gene sets of chlorophyllide biosynthesis and the ClpPR protease complex. Supplemental Figure S4. PG genes preferentially maintain coexpression with other PG genes at higher PCCs. Supplemental Figure S5. Coexpression relationships between PG genes and isoprenoid metabolism genes found in MetaOmGraph projected onto the isoprenoid pathway. Supplemental Table S1. Experimental data of in-gel and in-solution PG proteome analysis. Supplemental Table S2. Comparison of protein abundances in PG, total leaf, thylakoid, and stroma. Supplemental Table S3. MetaOmGraph coexpression results: top 20. Supplemental Table S4. Functional group enrichment of PG coexpressers using different software programs. Supplemental Text S1. Testing and benchmarking of coexpression analysis tools.
