!~ABS~! The plasma membrane (PM) is the primary site of freezing injury in plants. To determine global changes in PM protein profiles in association with freezing tolerance development, proteome analysis of the purified PM of Arabidopsis suspension-cultured cells (T87 line) was conducted with label-free protein quantification technology. Freezing tolerance of Arabidopsis cells at the lag growth phase (8 d old) increased after cold acclimation (CA) or ABA treatment. Proteome analysis assigned 658 proteins in the PM in total, of which 45.3% (298 proteins) were predicted to have transmembrane domains. They were classified into several functional categories, with the primary categories being proteins in transporters, signal transduction, protein destination and storage, and cell structure. After CA, 271 proteins increased and 111 proteins decreased. ABA treatment resulted in 185 increased and 56 decreased proteins. Of these, 139 increased and 49 decreased proteins were identified in common after both CA and ABA treatment. In addition, there were proteins specifically expressed in cold- (132 increased and 62 decreased) or ABA- (46 increased and 7 decreased) treated cells. Collectively, our results clearly show that (i) responses of the PM proteome to CA and ABA treatment overlap substantially but, at the same time, some proteins exhibited different response patterns in each treatment; and (ii) the majority of ABA-responsive proteins are CA-responsive proteins but not vice versa, suggesting complex interactions of CA and ABA signaling pathways in the PM proteome responses.
!~RES~! Arabidopsis suspension-cultured cells (T87 line) at the lag growth phase (8 d old cells) responded well to CA and ABA treatment (Fig. 1). Because there were no differences in survival rates after freeze–thawing determined by the regrowth method (based on the protocol of CITATION) and the 2, 3, 5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC) assay (data not shown), the TTC assay protocol was used for the present study, which is suitable for determination of survival with a large number of samples. Survival rates declined at all temperatures (−2 to −10°C) in the control (untreated) cells; 50% mortality occurred between −6 and −8°C (Fig. 1). After CA for 2 d, the survival rates were significantly improved; survival did not decline until the temperature decreased to −8°C or below. Even at −10°C, approximately 50% of cells survived. When cells were treated with 10, 25 or 50 μM ABA, freezing tolerance increased; the 25 μM ABA treatment was the most effective in increasing survival rates throughout the range of temperatures tested (data not shown). The survival of ABA- (25 μM) treated cells after a freeze–thaw cycle was similar to that of CA cells: no decrease in survival was observed until the temperature declined to −8°C or below (Fig. 1). Survival at −10°C was even better in ABA-treated cells than in CA cells. These results indicate that similar increased freezing tolerance of Arabidopsis suspension-cultured cells (T87 line) at the lag growth phase occurs after CA and ABA treatment.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We identified 658 proteins in the PM from the Arabidopsis suspension-cultured cells (T87 line) using the NCBI Arabidopsis database (Supplementary Table S1), because the data in the NCBI database are updated more frequently than those in the TAIR database (updated weekly in NCBI and every 2 weeks in TAIR). For subsequent analyses, GI accessions from NCBI were converted to TAIR AGI accessions, and only AGI accessions were used. The molecular mass of the identified proteins ranged from 6.43 to 312.05 kDa, with 55% of them ranging from 20 to 70 kDa. The pI values also ranged from 4 to 12. When we merged these results and checked overlapping proteins, 298 proteins out of 658 identified proteins (45.3%) were predicted to have transmembrane domains. Subcellular localization predicted with TargetP revealed that 277 of 658 proteins were secreted proteins, suggesting an association with the PM (Table 1). Among the secreted proteins, 71 proteins were suggested by TAIR (with PubMed reference) and 18 proteins were curated by the PPDB laboratory as PM proteins. Of the 14 proteins targeted to mitochondria identified by TargetP, two were associated with the PM according to the TAIR or PPDB databases. Among 355 proteins with no predicted subcellular targeting by the TargetP program, 156 proteins were targeted to the PM by the PPDB database. Collectively, these results imply that most of the proteins identified in the present study are associated with the PM in Arabidopsis cells.  Prediction of hydrophobic or amphiphilic α-helices by the Aramemnon program revealed that 260 proteins out of the 658 identified (39.5%) had transmembrane domains (Fig. 2A). Of these, 150 proteins had a single transmembrane domain and 110 had multiple (2–15) transmembrane domains. With the TMHMM database, we found that 273 proteins (41.5%) had transmembrane domains (Fig. 2B). Furthermore, 127 of these proteins had a single transmembrane domain and 146 had two or more transmembrane domains. Further analysis revealed that the transmembrane domains of 235 proteins were listed in both databases.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The functional classification of proteins was performed based on functional categories previously described (CITATION; Fig. 3). The largest functional category of PM proteins was signal transduction (140 proteins, 21.3%), followed by protein destination and storage (110 proteins, 16.7%) and cell structure (72 proteins, 10.9%). Functional categories that are well known to be associated with the PM were transporters (59 proteins, 9.0%), intracellular traffic (29 proteins, 4.4%) and disease/defense (17 proteins, 2.6%). In addition, there were several other categories for PM proteins. Lastly, a relatively large number of proteins were not assigned their functions (unknown, 92 proteins, 14.0%). These results were similar to data found in the Arabidopsis PM Protein database (http://www.grenoble.prabi.fr/data/).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] A 2-fold threshold value both for increased and decreased proteins was selected to extract proteins that changed in response to CA or ABA treatment (Supplementary Table S2). According to the analysis of variance (ANOVA) results, CA resulted in changes in 382 proteins (271 increased and 111 decreased) and ABA treatment resulted in changes in 241 proteins (185 increased and 56 decreased), showing that a larger proportion of PM proteins were affected by cold (Supplementary Table S3). Further analysis revealed that 317 proteins increased in response to CA and/or ABA and 118 proteins decreased after CA and/or ABA treatment. Interestingly, only a single protein, sucrose-proton symporter 1 (SUC1, At1g71880), showed different responses to the two treatments; the abundance increased after CA treatment but decreased after ABA treatment. In total, 434 PM proteins were identified as CA- or ABA-responsive proteins. We found a number of PM proteins that responded to both CA and ABA treatment (Fig. 4, Supplementary Table S3). When we considered PM proteins showing responses to CA and ABA regardless of the directions of the changes (i.e. both of increased and decreased proteins, Fig. 4A), about a half of CA-responsive proteins (189 proteins) also responded to ABA treatment. Those proteins corresponded to 78% of ABA-responsive proteins. The proportions of proteins responding to only CA or ABA, or both CA and ABA were similar when we analyzed PM proteins that increased or decreased in response to CA and ABA (Fig. 4B, C). That is, about half of the CA-responsive proteins also responded to ABA treatment, which corresponded to approximately 75% of ABA-responsive proteins.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In general, the proportions of proteins in each functional category were similar in CA- and ABA-responsive proteins (Supplementary Fig. S1, Fig. 5). This is also quite consistent with the results of whole PM proteins shown in Fig. 3. The categories of cell structure, protein destination and storage, signal transduction, and transporters were the major ones for the responsive proteins. Detailed analysis of the data revealed some differences between CA- and ABA-responsive proteins. For example, the proportions in protein destination and storage and protein synthesis were somewhat greater in CA-responsive proteins than in ABA-responsive proteins (17% vs. 15% and 8% vs. 6%, respectively). Further, the proportions in cell structure and transporters were less in CA-responsive proteins than in ABA-responsive PM proteins (12% vs. 16% and 8% vs. 12%, respectively).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] When the responsive proteins were separated into increased and decreased proteins, we found some differences between CA and ABA treatment, which might be interesting when we consider the CA- and ABA-mediated pathways in plant freezing tolerance mechanisms (Fig. 5, Supplementary Tables S2, Supplementary Data). In the increased proteins, the proportions of proteins that responded to both CA and ABA treatments were generally high, as mentioned above (Fig. 4). In particular, in the cell structure category, 69% of the CA-increased proteins (28 of 41 proteins), and 80% of the ABA-increased proteins (28 of 35 proteins) responded to both ABA and CA treatments. Six fasciclin-like arabinogalactan proteins (FLAs) and three pectinesterase proteins were included in the proteins increased after both treatments. Another predominant protein group in this category was the glycosyl hydrolase family proteins (six proteins increased and one protein decreased after both CA and ABA treatments, and one increased and one decreased only after CA). Conversely, in the intracellular traffic category, the proportions of proteins that responded to the two treatments were especially low; 31% of CA-increased proteins (5 out of 16 proteins) and 56% of ABA-increased proteins (5 out of 9 proteins) responded to both treatments. Five proteins in the SNARE complex (syntaxins and synaptobrevin-related protein) increased only after CA treatment. In the decreased proteins, there were two major categories (protein destination and storage and signal transduction) after CA and ABA treatment. Because there were very few proteins that responded to only ABA treatment in all categories, the majority of ABA-decreased proteins also decreased after CA treatment. This tendency was true when looking at CA-decreased proteins. In summary, the majority of the decreased proteins that responded to both CA and ABA were shared by the two signal-mediated pathways.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana T87 suspension-cultured cells, derived from seedlings of the ecotype Columbia, were subcultured at 2 week intervals in JPL medium (CITATION, CITATION) at 23°C on a rotary shaker (120 r.p.m.) under continuous light (100 μmol m−2 s−1). Cells at lag growth phase (i.e. 8 d old) were used in our study. CA treatment was carried out by transferring the cells to a 2°C growth chamber (CU-351A, Tomy) with a 12 h photoperiod (100 μmol m−2 s−1) for 2 d. ABA treatment (25 μM) was carried out for 24 h at 23°C as described above. Control (not CA- or ABA-treated), CA- and ABA-treated cells were used for freezing tolerance determination and PM proteome analysis. Freezing tolerance of cells was determined according to the method reported previously (CITATION). Briefly, cells were collected by centrifugation at 225 × g for 5 min at room temperature and washed three times with sterilized water to avoid having extracellular sugar in the cultured medium. After suspension in sterilized water, aliquots of suspension cells (3 ml) were put into glass tubes (15 ml) and placed on a table for 5 min, after which the cells had sedimented at the bottom and as much water as possible could be removed before freezing. Freezing of cells was performed according to the method of CITATION. Glass tubes containing cells were placed in ethanol in a program freezer (Pro Cool Bath NCB-3400; EYELA) at −2°C for 15 min, after which the formation of ice was promoted by touching the tube with a metal spatula pre-cooled in liquid nitrogen. After being kept at −2°C for 2 h to ensure complete formation of ice in the samples, cells were cooled down at a rate of −2°C h−1 in the program freezer. Once they had reached the desired temperatures, the samples were transferred to 4°C and thawed overnight in the dark. The survival rate of cells was determined by the TTC method after a freeze–thaw cycle (CITATION, CITATION). An aliquot (1 ml) of TTC (Sigma) solution in 0.05 M sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.5) was added to each sample and incubated overnight in the dark at 22°C. The cells were then washed once with 3 ml of distilled water, and red formazan (a product of TTC reduction by living cells) was extracted with 10 ml of 95% ethanol for 24 h. The absorbance of the extract was read at 485 nm (Beckman Acta CIII spectrophotometer, SHIMADZU). Survival rates were obtained as the ratios of absorbance of freeze–thawed samples to control (unfrozen and kept at 4°C) samples. Five samples were analyzed for each temperature and treatment, and the experiment was repeated at least three times independently. A two-phase partition method (polyethylene glycol/dextran) was used to obtain PM fractions with high purity (CITATION). The control, CA- and ABA-treated T87 cells at the lag growth phase were collected and homogenized in a medium (3 ml g FW−1 cells) consisting of 0.5 M sorbitol, 50 mM MOPS/KOH, polyvinylpyrrolidone (mol. wt 40,000), 0.5% (w/v) defatted bovine serum albumin (BSA), 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, 4 mM salicylhydroxamic acid and 2.5 mM potassium metabisulfite with a Polytron (Brinkmann) for 30–45 s at 0°C. After homogenization, the homogenates were filtered through four layers of cheesecloth and the filtrates were centrifuged at 4°C at 10,000 × g for 15 min and subsequently at 156,000 × g for 50 min. The resultant microsomal fraction (10,000 × g to 156,000 × g fraction) was suspended in a solution of 0.25 M sucrose and 10 mM KH2PO4/K2HPO4 buffer (pH 7.8) and centrifuged again at 156,000 × g for 50 min for washing. After washing, the microsomal suspensions were fractionated with an aqueous, two-polymer, phase partition system consisting of 6.0% (w/w) polyethylene glycol 3,350 (Sigma) and 6.0% (w/w) dextran T500 (GE Healthcare) in a solution of 0.25 M sucrose, 30 mM NaCl and 10 mM KH2PO4/K2HPO4 buffer (pH 7.8). The two-phase partition was repeated three times at 0°C. The upper phase of the final two-phase system was recovered and diluted with a washing solution (0.25 M sucrose and 10 mM MOPS/KOH, pH 7.3) and centrifuged at 156,000 × g at 4°C for 50 min to remove the polymers. After one more centrifugation under the same conditions, the resultant PM-enriched pellet was suspended in the washing solution. The protein content in the PM fractions was determined by the Bradford assay (Bio-Rad) using BSA as a standard (CITATION, CITATION). The PM fraction obtained with this method was estimated to be of sufficient purity for subsequent proteome analysis according to numerous publications using similar PM isolation protocols reported previously (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). To remove non-proteinous compounds, PM proteins were subjected to 1-DE for a time sufficient for the protein samples to run into the gel. For this, 2 μg protein samples were suspended in an SDS buffer [2% (w/v) SDS, 50 mM Tris–HCl (pH 6.8), 6% (v/v) β-mercaptoethanol, 10% (w/v) glycerol and bromophenol blue]. After electrophoresis for 2 min (50 V) on a 7.5% polyacrylamide gel (E-R7.5L, ATTO), a gel band with proteins (5 mm in length) was cut and collected. The gel band was cut into four pieces to increase the efficiency of protein digestion and then digested according to procedures published by CITATION with slight modifications. The gel was dehydrated in acetonitrile and then completely dried in a vacuum centrifuge. An aliquot of 10 mM dithiotreitol (DTT) in 100 mM NH4HCO3 was used to cover the gel and the proteins were reduced for 1 h at 56°C. After cooling to room temperature, the DTT solution was replaced with the same volume of 55 mM iodoacetamide in 100 mM NH4HCO3. The gel was subsequently incubated for 45 min in the dark at ambient temperature with occasional mixing; the gel was then washed with 100 mM NH4HCO3 for 10 min, dehydrated by an addition of acetonitrile, swelled by rehydration in 100 mM NH4HCO3 and shrunk again in acetonitrile. After the liquid phase was removed, the gel was completely dried in a vacuum centrifuge and then swollen in a digestion buffer containing 50 mM NH4HCO3, 5 mM CaCl2 and 12.5 ng μl−1 of trypsin (sequencing grade, Boehringer Ingelheim) in an ice-cold bath for 45 min. The supernatant was removed and replaced with the same buffer in the absence of trypsin to keep the gel wet during enzymatic cleavage (37°C, overnight). The resultant peptides were extracted by one change of 20 mM NH4HCO3 and three changes of 5% (v/v) formic acid in 50% (v/v) acetonitrile (20 min for each change) at room temperature and dried down (CITATION). Digested peptide solutions were applied for nano LC-MS/MS analysis. After purification and concentration, peptides were eluted from a trap column with 0.1% (v/v) formic acid in acetonitrile and separated with a Magic C18 AQ nano column (MICHROM Bioresources). The eluting solution was linearly changed from 5% to 45% (v/v) acetonitrile at a flow rate of 200 nl min−1. Ionization was performed at a spray voltage of 1.8 kV using an ADVANCE spray source (MICHROM Bioresources). The mass spectrometer used was an LTQ Orbitrap XL (Thermo Fisher Scientific) operated with Xcalibur software (Ver.2.0.7, Thermo Fisher Scientific). Under data-dependent scanning mode, full scan mass spectra were obtained in the range of 400–1,800 m/z with a resolution of 30,000. These experiments were repeated four times with biological replicates obtained independently. Protein quantification was performed by processing acquired LC-MS data with Progenesis LC-MS software (version 2.6, Nonlinear Dynamics). After loading the acquired spectra (experimental raw data files) of 12 LC-MS runs to Progenesis software, the profile data of the MS scans were transformed to peak lists using a proprietary algorithm (CITATION). One control sample run was selected as a reference to align all the other runs, >20 (vectors) landmarks were aligned manually and then the alignment vectors were generated automatically for all the LC-MS runs. After features with >5 charges were excluded in further analyses, the raw abundances of all features were normalized. Samples were divided into three appropriate groups (control, ABA treatment and CA) by using ‘within-subject design’ since we investigated PM proteome changes under different conditions. Peptides were filtered with ANOVA (<0.05) and max fold change (>2). MS/MS spectra from features with charge (2+, 3+ and 4+) were exported and compared with the NCBI Arabidopsis database (release 2011) using Mascot (version 2.3, Matrix Science). The following Mascot search parameters were used: enzyme, trypsin; fixed modification used, carbamidomethyl (C) and oxidation (M); peptide mass tolerance, 5 p.p.m.; fragment ion mass tolerance, 0.6 Da. Peptides were removed from further analysis to avoid errors in the quantification if they were assigned to more than one protein. The sum of the abundance values of the rest of the peptides belonging to the protein were used for calculation of protein abundance values. Protein names and/or associated functions were retrieved from the NCBI (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez), PPDB (http://ppdb.tc.cornell.edu/) or TAIR (http://www.arabidopsis.org) databases. Grand average of hydropathy (GRAVY), molecular weight, pI and TargetP annotations were retrieved from PPDB (http://ppdb.tc.cornell.edu/). Prediction of membrane-spanning regions (i.e. transmembrane domains) was performed with the ARAMEMNON (http://aramemnon.uni-koeln.de/) and TMHMM (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TMHMM/) databases. For the freezing experiment, Student's t-test was conducted to analyze statistical significance of the difference between samples when necessary. For the protein identification, the proteins which appeared at least three times in four biological replicates were chosen as PM proteins. In quantification of proteins, averages of protein abundance values were used for analysis (from Progenesis LC-MS software). In order to attribute a certain expression profile to each individual protein, differential expression of a protein was declared when the relative abundance differed between groups by P < 0.05. A protein was reported to be higher or lower in abundance when the abundance was, respectively, higher (fold change >2) or lower (<0.5) after CA or ABA treatment than in control cells.
