!~ABS~! Leaf primordia with high division and developmental competencies are generated around the periphery of stem cells at the shoot apex. Arabidopsis ASYMMETRIC-LEAVES2 (AS2) protein plays a key role in the regulation of many genes responsible for flat symmetric leaf formation. The AS2 gene, expressed in leaf primordia, encodes a plant-specific nuclear protein containing an AS2/LOB domain with cysteine repeats (C-motif). AS2 proteins are present in speckles in and around the nucleoli, and in the nucleoplasm of some leaf epidermal cells. We used the tobacco cultured cell line BY-2 expressing the AS2-fused yellow fluorescent protein to examine subnuclear localization of AS2 in dividing cells. AS2 mainly localized to speckles (designated AS2 bodies) in cells undergoing mitosis and distributed in a pairwise manner during the separation of sets of daughter chromosomes. Few interphase cells contained AS2 bodies. Deletion analyses showed that a short stretch of the AS2 amino-terminal sequence and the C-motif play negative and positive roles, respectively, in localizing AS2 to the bodies. These results suggest that AS2 bodies function to properly distribute AS2 to daughter cells during cell division in leaf primordia; and this process is controlled at least partially by signals encoded by the AS2 sequence itself. The online version of this article (doi:10.1007/s10265-012-0479-5) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
!~RES~! We made the XVE:AS2-YFP DNA construct, in which the coding sequence of AS2 cDNA was fused in frame to the coding sequence for yellow fluorescent protein (YFP). This fusion gene was driven by the estrogen-inducible promoter (Zuo et al. [CR53]) and introduced into cells of the tobacco cultured-cell line BY-2. As described in “[Sec2]”, we cultured the transformed BY-2 cells in liquid medium containing 0.05 μM 17-β-estradiol for 16 h to induce transcription of the AS2-YFP gene. We then examined those cells for subcellular and subnuclear localization of AS2-YFP proteins by observing randomly dividing cells for the fluorescent signals of AS2-YFP. As shown in Fig. [Fig1], 4.7% of interphase cells exhibited YFP signals in subnuclear speckles in and around the nucleolus in addition to the nucleoplasm (Fig. [Fig1], 2nd row). When only YFP was expressed in BY-2 cells (Fig. [Fig1], 1st row), the signal was detected mainly in the nucleoplasm, as well as cytoplasm, similarly as was seen in the remaining cells at interphase with AS2-YFP (data not shown).Fig. 1Subcellular localization of AS2-YFP in BY-2 cells at interphase and during mitosis. Expression of AS2-YFP and YFP is controlled under the estrogen-inducible promoter. Transformed BY-2 cell lines harboring AS2-YFP and YFP constructs were incubated for 16 h in the presence of 0.05 μM 17-β-estradiol. Cells were fixed and stained with 4′6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI), which is specific for nuclei. Fluorescence of DAPI (blue) and fluorescence of YFP (yellow) in BY-2 cells at the different cell cycle stages are visualized by using confocal fluorescence microscopy. Merged images (blue DAPI, yellow YFP) are shown on the right (Merged). Nomarski images are also shown (DIC). Numbers on the right represent ratios of cells showing AS2 bodies to total cells examined at specific phases of the cell cycle. In anaphase and telophase cells, AS2 bodies that seem to belong to the same pair are marked with a common shape of arrowheads or arrows. Bars 20 μm Subcellular localization of AS2-YFP in BY-2 cells at interphase and during mitosis. Expression of AS2-YFP and YFP is controlled under the estrogen-inducible promoter. Transformed BY-2 cell lines harboring AS2-YFP and YFP constructs were incubated for 16 h in the presence of 0.05 μM 17-β-estradiol. Cells were fixed and stained with 4′6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI), which is specific for nuclei. Fluorescence of DAPI (blue) and fluorescence of YFP (yellow) in BY-2 cells at the different cell cycle stages are visualized by using confocal fluorescence microscopy. Merged images (blue DAPI, yellow YFP) are shown on the right (Merged). Nomarski images are also shown (DIC). Numbers on the right represent ratios of cells showing AS2 bodies to total cells examined at specific phases of the cell cycle. In anaphase and telophase cells, AS2 bodies that seem to belong to the same pair are marked with a common shape of arrowheads or arrows. Bars 20 μm A small proportion (5.5%) of the culture of randomly dividing transformed BY-2 cells underwent mitosis (Fig. [Fig1]). Signals from AS2-YFP were detected in several concentrated speckles in all mitotic cells (prophase to telophase in Fig. [Fig1]). Interestingly, these speckles were observed to localize in pairwise patterns adjacent to both separating sets of daughter chromosomes after metaphase (Fig. [Fig1], 5th and 6th rows: each pair is marked by the same symbol). There were no sets of daughter chromosomes that were not accompanied by the speckles, even when only a small number of the speckles were present in the parental nuclei (see also Fig. [Fig3]). The speckles appeared to be localized to regions among condensed chromosomes in the cells at prophase. From metaphase to telophase, however, the speckles seem to locate in peripheral regions of the chromosomes. Since the signals of AS2-YFP (seen in yellow in Fig. [Fig1]) in these phases were distinct from those of DAPI (seen in blue), speckles were not always associated with segregating daughter chromosomes. The numbers and sizes of speckles were variable from cell to cell, although most of the cells at interphase and in mitosis contained 2–6 speckles (data not shown). The number of speckles in mitotic cells was also variable, but interestingly the average numbers at metaphase and anaphase-telophase were 2.0 (81 speckles in 41 cells) and 3.8 (68 speckles in 18 cells), respectively. In summary, patterns of subnuclear localization of the AS2 protein were dynamically altered during progression of the cell division cycle of BY-2 cells. AS2 was consistently incorporated into several speckles in cells undergoing mitosis and also in a small portion of cells at interphase; conversely, AS2 was also dispersed in the nucleoplasm of almost all cells at interphase. We hereinafter refer to these speckles in BY-2 cells as AS2 bodies. To seek for internal regions of the AS2 protein that might be responsible for its sub-nuclear localization patterns, we introduced a series of deletions into the AS2 moiety in AS2-YFP (Fig. [Fig2]a) and investigated the localization patterns of signals from the YFP fusions (Fig. [Fig2]b). As shown in Fig. [Fig2]b(ii), 66.1% of cells that expressed AS2ΔN-YFP (Fig. [Fig2]a(ii)), which had a deletion of the amino-terminal (N-terminal) short sequence (from residues 1 to 7), exhibited YFP signals in AS2 bodies during interphase. Thus, the proportion of cells that generate AS2 bodies increased markedly, suggestive of a negative role for the N-terminal sequence of AS2 protein in the formation of the AS2 bodies during interphase.Fig. 2Subcellular localization of wild-type AS2 and its deletion mutants that were fused to YFP. a Schematic representation of wild-type and deletion mutants. Predicted domain organization and relevant amino-acid positions for AS2 are indicated above and below, respectively, in the wild-type schematics. Coding sequences for all AS2 proteins (i–v) were fused to the sequence corresponding to the N-terminus of the YFP sequence. These fusion constructs were linked to the estrogen-inducible promoter. b Subcellular localization of deletion mutants of AS2 in interphase cells of transformed BY-2 lines. The transformed cells harboring these fusion constructs were incubated for 16 h in the presence of 0.05 μM 17-β-estradiol. Living cells were observed by confocal fluorescence microscopy to detect fluorescence of YFP (yellow YFP). Nomarski (DIC) and merged images (Merged) are also shown. Numbers on the right represent ratios of cells showing AS2 bodies to interphase cells examined. Bars 20 μm Subcellular localization of wild-type AS2 and its deletion mutants that were fused to YFP. a Schematic representation of wild-type and deletion mutants. Predicted domain organization and relevant amino-acid positions for AS2 are indicated above and below, respectively, in the wild-type schematics. Coding sequences for all AS2 proteins (i–v) were fused to the sequence corresponding to the N-terminus of the YFP sequence. These fusion constructs were linked to the estrogen-inducible promoter. b Subcellular localization of deletion mutants of AS2 in interphase cells of transformed BY-2 lines. The transformed cells harboring these fusion constructs were incubated for 16 h in the presence of 0.05 μM 17-β-estradiol. Living cells were observed by confocal fluorescence microscopy to detect fluorescence of YFP (yellow YFP). Nomarski (DIC) and merged images (Merged) are also shown. Numbers on the right represent ratios of cells showing AS2 bodies to interphase cells examined. Bars 20 μm When the deleted region was extended into the C-motif, which is perfectly conserved in all members of the AS2/LOB family (Fig. [Fig2]a(iii)), signals from AS2ΔN-Cm-YFP were observed in the nucleoplasm in all randomly dividing BY-2 cells at interphase (Fig. [Fig2]b(iii)), which suggests that the C-motif is required for the localization of AS2 protein to AS2 bodies. We deleted the carboxy-terminal (C-terminal) domain of AS2 in the AS2-YFP fusion (Fig. [Fig2]a(iv): designated AS2ΔC). Figure [Fig2]b(iv) shows that YFP signals in only a small portion of the interphase cells (3.4%) were visible in AS2 bodies. These results demonstrate that the C-terminal domain is not involved in the formation of AS2 bodies in interphase. Signals from AS2ΔNΔC-YFP that contained only the AS2/LOB domain sequence (Fig. [Fig2]a(v), b(v)), which is highly conserved in all members of the AS2/LOB family, were localized to AS2 bodies in 85% of cells at interphase, showing that the AS2/LOB domain is sufficient for the AS2 body formation. In the preceding sections, we have shown that the N-terminal short sequence and the C-motif have negative and positive roles, respectively, in the formation of AS2 bodies in cells at interphase. We addressed how mutations of these AS2 regions affect the formation of AS2 bodies in cells during mitosis. In cells expressing AS2ΔN-YFP, AS2ΔC-YFP, and AS2ΔNΔC-YFP, pairs of YFP signals were detected in AS2 bodies in all mitotic cells we examined (Fig. [Fig3]a, c, d), which suggests that the N-terminal short sequence and the C-terminal half are not required for the formation of AS2 bodies in mitotic cells. Distinct speckles were not observed in cells expressing AS2ΔN-Cm-YFP, however, even during mitosis (Fig. [Fig3]b). These results show that the C-motif is essential for the formation of AS2 bodies in cells during mitosis as well as in interphase.Fig. 3Subcellular localization of deletion mutants of AS2 in M phase cells of transformed BY-2 lines. BY-2 cells harboring each mutant construct were incubated for 16 h in the presence of 0.05 μM 17-β-estradiol. Cells were fixed and stained with DAPI. Fluorescence of DAPI (blue) and fluorescence of YFP (yellow) in the M-phase cells are visualized by using confocal fluorescence microscopy. Nomarski images (DIC) and merged images of YFP and DAPI (Merged) are shown in the left panels and the right panels, respectively. Numbers on the right represent ratios of cells showing AS2 bodies to total M phase cells examined. In anaphase and telophase cells, AS2 bodies that seem to belong to the same pair are marked with a common shape of arrowheads or arrows. Bars 20 μm Subcellular localization of deletion mutants of AS2 in M phase cells of transformed BY-2 lines. BY-2 cells harboring each mutant construct were incubated for 16 h in the presence of 0.05 μM 17-β-estradiol. Cells were fixed and stained with DAPI. Fluorescence of DAPI (blue) and fluorescence of YFP (yellow) in the M-phase cells are visualized by using confocal fluorescence microscopy. Nomarski images (DIC) and merged images of YFP and DAPI (Merged) are shown in the left panels and the right panels, respectively. Numbers on the right represent ratios of cells showing AS2 bodies to total M phase cells examined. In anaphase and telophase cells, AS2 bodies that seem to belong to the same pair are marked with a common shape of arrowheads or arrows. Bars 20 μm
!~MM~! To express YFP fusions in cells, full-length AS2 cDNA and its truncated cDNA fragments, which are shown in Fig. [Fig2]a, were PCR-amplified with specific primer pairs (Table S1 and Fig. S1) and cloned into YFP fusion vector pEYFP (CLONTECH, Mountain view, CA, USA). Structures of all constructs were verified by sequencing. The resulting AS2-EYFP and truncated AS2-EYFP cDNA fragments were subcloned into the binary vector pER8 (Zuo et al. [CR53]). The tobacco cell line BY-2 was maintained in suspension culture at 26°C in the dark with weekly subculturing in modified Linsmaier and Skoog medium (Banno et al. [CR2]). Transformed BY-2 cells were generated by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation (An [CR1]). 17-β-estradiol was purchased from Sigma (St. Louis, MO, USA), prepared as a 20 mM stock solution in dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), and stored at −20°C in small aliquots. DMSO alone had no effect on transgene expression (data not shown). Independent transformants were separately subcultured in liquid LS medium containing 0.05 μM 17-β-estradiol for 16 h at 26°C in the dark. Several lines expressing YFP fusions were selected and analyzed. For DAPI staining, cells were fixed with 3.7% paraformaldehyde in sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.2) for 15 min and stained with 0.2 μg/ml of 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI). Images were recorded by confocal microscopy with a 40 × 1.3 NA plan apochromat oil immersion objective (FV1000 laser scanning microscope, OLYMPUS, Japan).
