!~ABS~! Acylamino acid-releasing enzyme/oxidized protein hydrolase (AARE/OPH) has been biochemically demonstrated to be a bifunctional protease that has exopeptidase activity against Nα-acylated peptides and endopeptidase activity against oxidized and glycated proteins; however, its physiological role remains unknown. In this study, to determine its physiological significance, we produced AARE/OPH-overexpressing and -suppressed plants and assessed the biological impacts of AARE/OPH. The subcellular localization of Arabidopsis AARE/OPH was found to be cytoplasmic and nuclear by transient expression analysis of tdTomato-fused Arabidopsis AARE/OPH. Overexpression of AARE/OPH exhibited no apparent effect on the level of oxidized proteins because wild types probably have inherently high AARE/OPH activity. Through RNAi gene suppressing, we successfully produced AARE/OPH-suppressed Arabidopsis plants (aare) that exhibited almost no AARE activity. In the aare plant, electrolyte leakage by methyl viologen treatment was enhanced compared to that of non-transformant plants, suggesting that the plasma membranes of aare easily suffered oxidative damage, probably as a result of deterioration of the cytoplasmic antioxidative system. Correspondingly, proteomic analysis revealed that the aare plant accumulated a number of oxidized proteins including cytoplasmic antioxidant enzymes. On the basis of these results, we concluded that AARE/OPH plays a homeostatic role in sustaining the cytoplasmic antioxidative system.
!~RES~! Previous prediction of the N-terminal amino acid sequence of AtAARE suggested that the putative localization of this protein was the microbody, nucleus, or mitochondria (Yamauchi et al. CITATION). To determine the precise intracellular localization, we constructed a plasmid expressing AtAARE fused with tdTomato, a fluorescent protein, and introduced the plasmid to the epidermic cell of Welsh onion by particle bombardment. As a result, the transient expression of AtAARE-fused tdTomato was recognized by an orange color along the inside of cell walls and the nucleus, partly identical to fluorescence image of GUS-fused tdTomato which expresses in cytoplasm (Fig. 1b). Hence, AtAARE was localized in the cytoplasm and nucleus. We constructed a 35S-driven AtAARE overexpression plasmid and transformed tobacco plants by Agrobacterium infection. After regeneration of transgenic tobacco plants (total 24 lines), we selected two lines containing a high amount of AtAARE (named AAREOE1 and 2) confirmed by immunoblotting using anti-AtAARE antiserum (Fig. 2a). AAREOE1 and 2 exhibited approximately twofold higher specific activity than SR-1 (with Ac-Ala-pNA as the substrate) and an activity decrease with senescence (Fig. 2b). To examine the impact of overexpressed AtAARE on the level of oxidized proteins, we checked the profiles of oxidized proteins in both SR-1 and AAREOE1 and found that they were similar, with a lesser amount in AAREOE1 (Fig. 2c). Similar results were obtained using Arabidopsis, i.e., the AARE activity of AARE-overexpressing Arabidopsis was approximately twofold compared to Col-0, and the profile of oxidized proteins in transgenic Arabidopsis was similar to that of Col-0 (data not shown). These results suggest that wild-type plants have enough AARE activity to fulfill the physiological role of an oxidized protein scavenger. Thus, we concluded that overexpressed ectopic AARE did not affect the level of oxidized proteins. [[FIGURE]]  Next, we produced AARE-suppressed Arabidopsis plants using the RNAi technique to analyze the effect of loss of AtAARE at the level of oxidized proteins. Transformants were screened by genomic PCR and immunoblotting, and two AtAARE-suppressed lines were obtained (named aare1 and aare2). We confirmed that the amount of AtAARE proteins in both lines was reduced; in particular, AtAARE protein in aare2 was undetectable (Fig. 3a). Correspondingly, no AtAARE activity (exopeptidase activity) was detected in aare2 (Fig. 3b). Therefore, we used the aare2 line for further analyses. [[FIGURE]]  To assess the biological impact of the suppression of AARE activity, we examined two physiological parameters involved in typical damage by oxidative stress, methyl viologen-induced ion leakage and PSII inhibition. Ion leakage was enhanced by methyl viologen treatment in leaf discs from aare2 than those from Col-0 (Fig. 3c). The concentration of methyl viologen (5 μM) used in this experiment damaged approximately 60% of the plasma membrane in Col-0 and approximately 90% of the plasma membrane in aare2. This suggests that damage to the protoplasmic membranes may be defended by AtAARE, probably due to the maintained cytoplasmic antioxidative mechanism. Fv/Fm of leaf discs treated with methyl viologen did not differ between Col-0 and aare2 (Fig. 3d), indicating that AtAARE was not, however, involved in the protection of PSII against oxidative stress. This result corresponded to the localization of AtAARE, i.e., cytoplasmic AtAARE could not alleviate oxidative stress in chloroplasts. AtAARE-suppressed plants, especially aare2, exhibited severely suppressed AtAARE activity. As such, the impact of the declined AARE function on the level of oxidized proteins was examined using aare2. For proteomic analysis, we used proteins extracted from the leaves and roots of 2-week-old Arabidopsis for experiments, because accumulation of oxidized proteins is maximal between 2 and 3 weeks (Johansson et al. CITATION). Both the leaves and roots of aare2 plants contained a significant amount of oxidized proteins detected by immunochemical detection (data not shown). However, leaf samples were not suitable for our proteomic analysis, because chloroplast proteins occupied a large part of leaf proteins, masking lesser amounts of cytoplasmic and nuclear proteins; major oxidized leaf proteins were assigned as chloroplast proteins (Johansson et al. CITATION). To determine the protein profile of cytoplasm in which AARE localizes, we used root samples for further analysis of the endogenous substrate of AARE. Root proteins were successfully separated with high resolution by two-dimensional electrophoresis (Fig. 4). To identify oxidized proteins, we performed at least two experiments and reproductively detected spots were subjected to proteomic analysis. Typical results are shown in Fig. 4. Protein staining with Flamingo suggested that the protein patterns of Col-0 and aare2 were not different, whereas a large number of oxidized proteins were detected in aare2 than Col-0. We identified 49 spots exhibiting stronger signals in aare2 than Col-0. Unexpectedly, signals of 13 spots were stronger in Col-0 than aare2. The list of oxidized protein is presented in Table 1 (the amino acid sequences used for identification are included in Supplementary Table S1). The oxidized proteins that increased in aare2 plants were mainly cytoplasmic proteins. Because these proteins were not oxidized in Col-0, they could be regarded as potentially oxidized proteins eliminated by AtAARE in vivo. [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]]
!~MM~!  Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Col-0 and tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) cv Petit Havana SR-1 were grown in soil or 1/2 MS plates at 22°C with 12-h light (100 μmol m−2 s−1)/12-h dark conditions. The full-length cDNA encoding AARE was obtained from the Arabidopsis by a previously described method (Yamauchi et al. CITATION). Fragments of genes were amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) from cDNA clones and introduced into plasmids for production of transgenic plants. Constructs used for overexpression of AtAARE are shown in Supplementary Figure S1 (pBIAtAARE [a] for tobacco and pEarleyGate100AtAARE [b] for Arabidopsis). For Arabidopsis, the construct was introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens and used for plant transformation by vacuum infiltration. In the case of tobacco, conventional Agrobacterium infection protocol was used. To create the constructs that silence AtAARE, the regions corresponding to AtAARE internal alignment were amplified and introduced into pHellsgate 12, creating the AtAARE-suppression construct (referred to Supplemental Figure S1c). After transformation, transgenic plants were selected on 1/2 MS plates with a corresponding antibiotic. A gene of red fluorescent protein, tdTomato (Clontech Laboratories Inc., CA, USA) was fused with a full length of AtAARE sequence at the 3′-end. To express the fused protein, AtAARE–tdTomato proteins were overexpressed using the CaMV 35S promoter. Gold particles of 1-μm diameter were coated with plasmid (pGWtdAtAARE, plasmid map is depicted in Supplemental Figure S1d) and then introduced into Welsh onion epidermic cell by the particle bombardment method. After overnight incubation, fluorescence in the epidermic cell was observed using a fluorescence microscope (TRITC-A NQF, Ex 542 nm, Em 620 nm, Nikon, Tokyo, Japan). β-Glucuronidase (GUS)-fused tdTomato was used as a marker protein expressed in cytoplasm. Enzyme solution was mixed in 50 mM Hepes–KOH, pH 7.0 containing 1 mM Ac-Ala-pNA (nitroanilide) for a total volume of 1 ml and incubated at 37°C for 30 min. The reaction was stopped by the addition of 0.5 ml of 30% acetic acid; the absorbance at 410 nm was then measured. Enzymatic activity was calculated using the molar absorbance coefficient of 8.8 mM cm−1. The maximal photochemical quantum yield of photosystem II (Fv/Fm) was measured (PAM-2100, Heinz Walz, Effeltrich, Germany) after spraying 10 μM methyl viologen with 0.05% Tween-20 on the rosettes of 7-week-old plants. Ion conductance was assayed by dipping 7-week-old plant leaf discs into 5 μM methyl viologen. Subsequently, leaf discs were autoclaved and the total ion amount was then measured. Total proteins were extracted from Arabidopsis plants frozen by liquid nitrogen with mixing the sample powder with extraction buffer (50 mM potassium phosphate buffer, pH7.0, 2 mM 2-mercaptoethanol (ME), 1 mM EDTA). The extract was centrifuged at 12,000g for 30 min. The supernatant was electrophoresed on 8% sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS)-polyacrylamide gel (Laemmli CITATION) and transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane. The membrane was probed with anti-AtAARE antibody in a 1:10,000 dilution in Tris-buffered saline with 0.05% Tween-20 (TBST) and 0.3% skim milk. The secondary antibody (anti-guinea pig IgG–horseradish peroxidase) was diluted 1:5,000. Anti-AtAARE antiserum was raised from guinea pigs immunized with a purified His-tagged AtAARE as described previously (Yamauchi et al. CITATION). Protein was quantified by the method of Bradford (CITATION). The routine detection of oxidized proteins was carried out using OxyBlot (Millipore, MA, USA). One volume of the sample was added to half the volume of 24% SDS and 0.4% (w/v) 2,4-dinitrophenyl hydrazine in 20% trifluoroacetic acid. The mixture was incubated for 20 min at room temperature. The derivatization reaction was stopped by adding one volume of 2 M Tris base, 30% glycerol and 20% 2-ME. Derivatized protein samples were separated on 10% SDS-polyacrylamide gel and transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane. The membrane was probed with anti-dinitrophenylhydrazone (DNP) antibody in a 1:150 dilution in TBST buffer. The secondary antibody (anti-rabbit IgG–horseradish peroxidase) was diluted 1:1,000. Plant roots grown on 1/2 MS plates were ground into a homogenous powder using a chilled mortar in liquid nitrogen. The powder was then homogenized in a cold extraction buffer (5 M urea, 2 M thiourea, 2% CHAPS, 0.2% SDS, 65 mM dithiothreitol, 2% Pharmalyte, pH 3–10, 1% protease inhibitor cocktail). The extract was centrifuged at 12,000g for 30 min. The supernatant was incubated with cold acetone at −20°C overnight and the precipitated protein was then pelleted by centrifugation at 12,000g for 30 min. Rehydration was performed with an extraction buffer. Immobiline Drystrips (pH 4–7, 13 cm, GE Healthcare, NY, USA) were rehydrated overnight. First-dimension isoelectric focusing was carried out at 500 V for 2 h, 700 V for 1 h, 1,000 V for 1 h, 1,500 V for 1 h, 2,000 V for 1 h, 2,500 V for 1 h, 3,000 V for 1 h and 3,500 V for 1 h (Ettan IPGphor, GE Healthcare). After isoelectric focusing, the Immobiline strips were derivatized with dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH) using a modification of Dirmeier et al.’s method (Dirmeier et al. CITATION). The Immobiline strips were loaded onto a 14 × 14 cm 12.5% SDS-polyacrylamide gel. After electrophoresis, proteins were visualized by Flamingo fluorescent stain (Bio-Rad Laboratories, CA, USA) or anti-DNP antibody immunoblotting. For reliable identification of oxidized proteins, reproductively detected spots were selected by two-dimensional electrophoresis performed at least two times. For in-gel digestion, Flamingo-stained spots were cut out by a gel picker (FluoroPhoreStar3000, Anatech, Tokyo, Japan) by comparison with the image of immunoblotting performed in parallel. After cutting, elimination of Flamingo-stained spots was confirmed by gel imaging. The gels were incubated for 10 min in 200 μl of 50% acetonitrile and 50 mM ammonium bicarbonate two times. The spots were dried using an evaporator. Rehydration was performed with 10 μg/ml trypsin in 50 mM ammonium bicarbonate and then incubated on ice for 30 min. To rinse the excess trypsin, 1 ml of 50 mM ammonium bicarbonate was added and then immediately removed. Twenty microliters of 50 mM ammonium bicarbonate was added and incubated at 37°C overnight. The peptides were collected in new tubes. Thirty microliters of 50% acetonitrile and 5% formic acid was added and then incubated for 15 min. The solution was collected and 30 μl of 70% acetonitrile and 5% formic acid were added to the gel and then incubated for 15 min. The solution was collected and concentrated using an evaporator. The peptides were filtered and analyzed using an LTQ-Orbitrap mass spectrometer (Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., MA, USA). A database search was performed using MASCOT software.
