!~ABS~! Increasing numbers of cellular pathways are now recognized to be regulated via proteolytic processing events. The rhomboid family of serine proteases plays a pivotal role in a diverse range of pathways, activating and releasing proteins via regulated intramembrane proteolysis. The prototype rhomboid protease, rhomboid-1 in Drosophila, is the key activator of epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor pathway signalling in the fly and thus affects multiple aspects of development. The role of the rhomboid family in plants is explored and another developmental phenotype, this time in a mutant of an Arabidopsis chloroplast-localized rhomboid, is reported here. It is confirmed by GFP-protein fusion that this protease is located in the envelope of chloroplasts and of chlorophyll-free plastids elsewhere in the plant. Mutant plants lacking this organellar rhomboid demonstrate reduced fertility, as documented previously with KOM—the one other Arabidopsis rhomboid mutant that has been reported in the literature—along with aberrant floral morphology.
!~RES~! The RBL10 protein encoded by At1g25290 contains six hydrophobic regions predicted to form transmembrane spans ([fig1]; see Supplementary Fig. S1 at JXB online), following a 26 AA predicted chloroplast targeting sequence (www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP; [bib16]et al., 2007). This would produce an unmodified version of the protein of mass 38.2 kDa with the 343 AA sequence listed in most Arabidopsis genome databases (see comments on transcript, below). This predicted rhomboid protein fits best in the secretase subgroup ([bib34]) and contains the catalytic site residues that suggest that this rhomboid type is enzymatically active. Similarity between rhomboids is high enough to make them easily identified in other plants, the most similar sequence to RBL10 among sequenced plants being a putative protein from Populus trichocarpa (Western balsam poplar; Populus balsamifera subsp. trichocarpa: B9GZF8_POPTR), which is 56% identical at the amino-acid level (see Supplementary Fig. S1 at JXB online). The most similar non-land plant sequences are putative rhomboids from unicellular algae Micromonas and Chlamydomonas, at 41% and 34% identical, respectively. The Clostridium carboxidivorans genome encodes the most similar prokaryotic protease (37% identical). Translation of the sequence from cDNA produced in RT-PCR from various tissues in Col-0 A. thaliana showed that the RBL10-encoding open reading frame in Arabidopsis sequence databases may be variable or incorrect. In our work, two different possible transcripts were found. An alternative splice site in intron 5 increased its size from 73 nt to 86 nt, causing a loss of 13 nt from exon 6 and a stop codon-producing frameshift. With only one transmembrane domain encoded by the truncated mRNA, this transcript would not result in a functional protease. A second variant, however, encoded a polypeptide lacking seven amino acids in the predicted transmembrane helix 3, and would still produce a functional protease ([fig1]). From our sequence data, this appears to be the true encoded amino acid sequence, not that predicted by TAIR. This difference in the encoded protein does not alter the transmembrane domains but does make the RBL10 protein align better with its most closely related rhomboids, and the most similar protein in poplar, in particular (see Supplementary Fig. S1 at JXB online). The short (351 nt) non-coding region upstream of RBL10 contains the core of the low-temperature responsive element of the A. thaliana cor15a gene which is repeated twice in the cor15a promoter (ppdb.gene.nagoya-u.ac.jp/cgi-bin/index.cgi; [bib5]et al., 1994; [bib57]). No other sequence features are scored as reliable by prediction programs. Unfortunately, the usual means of investigating the timing and location of transcription, with a promoter–GUS fusion construct transformed into A. thaliana, did not produce any localization information. There was no X-gal staining under various conditions in roots, seedlings or floral tissues, all locations that were examined because they would have corresponded with the mutant phenotype or microarray data (see below). It is therefore likely that the introns contain regulatory information with respect to RBL10. Transformation of a 35S–RBL10–GFP construct into Arabidopsis revealed that, as predicted by its putative signal peptide (see Supplementary Fig. S1 at JXB online), RBL10 protein is localized to chloroplast membranes ([fig3]). In epifluorescence microscopy this manifests itself as green fluorescence in emerging true leaves, with their high density of cells and chloroplasts ([fig3]). Using the confocal microscope, GFP can consistently be observed in the chloroplast membrane throughout development ([fig3] show day 4 cotyledons and root plastids, whereas [fig3] shows day 9), lending bright fluorescence even early on in a time-series, since emerging leaves have a high concentration of chloroplasts. Localization is seen in the plastid envelope in both leaf ([fig3]) and root ([fig3]), and is perhaps most clearly observed in the latter. In day 9 leaves, the localized GFP appeared clearly external to the chlorophyll fluorescence of the chloroplast ([fig3]). The single N-terminal transit peptide of RBL10 would suggest the location of the mature rhomboid in the chloroplast inner or outer membrane, but the exact location cannot currently be accurately predicted from the presequence, nor whether the latter is cleaved by a processing peptidase, if indeed the outer membrane is the final location ([bib25]). Also of interest are the GFP-fluorescent membranes emanating from and linking the organelles: these can be seen in both root plastids and chloroplasts (see Supplementary Fig. S2 at JXB online). RBL10–GFP protein localization. (a, b) Confocal microscopy of RBL10–GFP fusion protein expression in the chloroplast membrane throughout development (here at day 4 post-stratification in cotyledons and root plastids). (c) Plastid RBL10–GFP showing membrane localization at day 9. (d) Expression concentrated in seedling emerging leaves, viewed with epifluorescence (with bright field, left) and (e) confocal microscope. (This figure is available in colour at JXB online.) In silico analysis not only corresponds with the chloroplast localization of the protein and predicted chloroplast signal peptide but, interestingly, the ATTED coexpression database (atted.jp/data/cor/At1g25290.html) also identifies the top co-regulated proteins as being the chloroplast-thylakoid protein EGY2, a S2P-like putative intramembrane metalloprotease ([bib13]et al., 2012), and CRR1 (chlororespiration reduction 1), a dihydrodipicolinate reductase essential for chloroplast NAD(P)H dehydrogenase activity ([fig4]). ATTED database analysis of transcriptional coregulation (atted.jp/data/cor/At1g25290.html; [bib40]et al., 2009) with RBL10 (At1g25290) identifies two chloroplast proteins: EGY2, a S2P-like putative membrane-located metalloprotease; and CRR1 (chlororespiration reduction 1), a dihydrodipicolinate reductase essential for chloroplast NAD(P)H dehydrogenase activity. (This figure is available in colour at JXB online.) Our own transcript analysis and published microarray data for RBL10 suggest low-level expression in many tissues and circumstances (data not shown). In RT-PCR, RBL10 transcript was amplified from RNA prepared from tissues as follows: seedling [day 5 and day 6 post-stratification (p.s.)], mature rosette leaf (stage 3; [bib9]et al., 2001), bolt stem, petiole, open flowers (stage 13; [bib44]et al., 1990), and immature siliques. Transcript could not be detected in day-2 seedling tissues at radical emergence. Various stresses were also looked at in order to examine any change in transcription levels. Infection with cucumber mosaic virus did not increase the levels of the RBL10 transcript but, whereas normally transcript was found to be difficult to amplify from the root, it was detected in roots if seedlings had been subjected to cold stress (4 °C). Microarray data compiled using Genevestigator (www.genevestigator.com/gv/index.jsp) also suggest transcription in all developmental stages but a peak of transcription at early flowering, and anatomical peaks in the leaf primordia, juvenile leaf, cotyledons, pedicel, and shoot apex (see Supplementary Fig. S3 at JXB online). Similarly, Arabidopsis eFP browser records flower stage 15, pedicel and vegetative rosette as having the highest levels of transcription, but with transcript again present in all tissues (www.bar.utoronto.ca/efp/cgi-bin/efpWeb.cgi). In roots, transcription is recorded as similar in all regions but Genevestigator puts the peak in the root hair zone and Arexdb in the elongation zone. Transcription is reported as being most upregulated in the agl66 mutant (agamous-like 66, involved in pollen development). A null mutant line of RBL10 (a Salk T-DNA line; supplied by NASC, Nottingham, UK) was segregated to homozygosity. To confirm that the line was null, RT-PCR at saturating cycle numbers was used to check that the transcript could not be amplified from tissues in which cDNA was routinely isolated in the wild type (WT; data not shown), and the presence of a single T-DNA insertion was confirmed by Southern analysis. PCR also allowed the insertion of the T-DNA to be located. A second null line was included to confirm aspects of the phenotype and treated as above. T-DNA insertions were found in exon 3 for Salk N537037 (RBL10-1) and in intron 6 for N592293 (RBL10-2; see Supplementary Fig. S4 at JXB online). Since the A. thaliana kom mutant has a floral phenotype, but RT-PCR and microarray data suggested widespread transcription of RBL10 and the ORF contained a likely chloroplast targeting sequence, our observation of the RBL10 mutants included growth characteristics, floral development, and photosynthetic parameters such as F v/F m and pigment content (chlorophylls and anthocyanins). Inactivational insertion of RBL10 resulted in slightly faster root growth than in the WT (Col0). Roots were longer than in Col-0 seedlings in duplicate assays from day 4 to day 11 p.s. (RBL10-1 and RBL10-2 at day 6 p.s. were significant at P=0.09, 43 degrees of freedom (d.f.), and P <0.01, 39 d.f., respectively; [fig5]). There was another small difference, in the rate of germination, which might account for roots being longer in the first week [e.g. in RBL10-2 seedlings, 93% had radicle emergence 10 h p.s. versus 71% in WT (P <0.001, 10 d.f.)]. The most dramatic feature of root growth, which corresponds with the faster rate of growth in the RBL10 mutants, was the formation of lateral roots. This was clearly evident when plants were grown on plates and was again statistically significant: mutant developed twice as many lateral roots at around 1 week p.s. (e.g. RBL10-1 and RBL10-2 both P <0.01, with 39 d.f. and 28 d.f., respectively, at day 9 p.s.; [fig5]). There was no dramatic impact on the appearance of plants or time to flowering, despite these differences in root growth. (a) Root growth over time post-stratification (p.s.) of lines RBL10-1 and -2 versus WT (Col-0) and (b) lateral root number at day 10 p.s. (±standard error of the mean). Chlorophyll a and b and total chlorophyll levels were the same in the mutant and the WT ([fig6]), despite the growth differences seen and the likely chloroplast membrane location of the RBL10 protein. A tendency for the mutant to contain more anthocyanin than the WT at the moderately high light intensity of 590 μmol m−2 s−1 and 750 μmol m−2 s−1 was noted but the conditions causing this require further investigation since the results were variable. Mean pigment content of the RBL10-2 mutant. Total chlorophyll and chlorophyll a and b per gram (±standard error of the mean), under standard growth conditions versus Col-0 (WT). Pulse amplitude modulation (PAM) fluorimetry was utilized to investigate the effect of insertional inactivation of RBL10 on protective photosynthetic response. At low light levels (14 μmol m−2 s−1in the growth chamber), there were no significant differences between dark-adapted Col-0 and the mutant in standard parameters. In the case of F v/F m, Photosystem II (PSII) maximum efficiency, both WT and mutant yielded figures of 0.87 (P=0.72; indicative of healthy plants' photosynthetic performance: a normal value is about 0.85). The same plants showed no indication of abnormal or damaged photosynthetic pathways, in terms of photochemical quenching (qP, usually approaching 1.0, was 0.88 in both WT and mutant; P=0.76) and non-photochemical quenching (NPQ). Feedback de-excitation dissipates excess absorbed light energy as heat, thereby protecting plants from high-light stress, which is quantified by the parameter NPQ ([bib38]et al., 2001; [bib3]; which normally varies between 0.35–0.5 and here was 0.33 in the WT and 0.36 in the mutant; P=0.29); and quantum yield of PSII (ϕPSII, 0.55 in the WT and 0.54 in the mutant; P=0.44). The tendency to a difference in NPQ was amplified in the mutant in higher intensity light, however. At 212 μmol m−2 s−1, both Col-0 and RBL10-2 gave an F v/F m of 0.87 (P=0.65) and qP (both 0.83; P=0.93), but the mean NPQ was 0.41±0.05 in the WT and 0.54±0.02 in the mutant (P=0.04, 10 d.f.). Mean φPSII was only slightly different at 0.48±0.02 in Col-0 and 0.43±0.02 in the mutant but the difference was just significant (P=0.09). In very high-intensity light (750 μmol m−2 s−1), F v/F m, qP, and φPSII remained similar but, again, mean NPQ was markedly higher in mutant (mean ±SEM, Col-0, 1.42±0.19 versus RBL10-2, 2.04±0.29). The aberrant-pollen phenotype of the kom rhomboid mutant and the presence of RBL10 transcript in floral tissues also prompted investigation of the fertility of the mutant lines compared with the WT, under both normal and high-intensity light conditions. Pollen and floral development were also examined using staining, light microscopy, and scanning electron microscopy. Within the inflorescences, the two independent mutant lines showed their most profound phenotypic abnormalities ([fig2]). A proportion of pollen developed poorly. Viewed using cryo-SEM, the heterogeneous pollen grains were half the length of WT, with some collapsed grains and flatter surface topology ([fig2]), although this was not as severe as the effects seen in the kom mutant ([fig2]). Alexander staining confirmed that some pollen was malformed or unviable ([fig2]). Flowers also occurred in mutant lines with other abnormalities ([fig7]) such as five petals, and the stigma in particular was commonly affected, appearing as a double stigma or with other distortions in shape and size ([fig7]; arrowed). As a result, few siliques develop successfully on the plant, especially early in inflorescence development, and the number of seed per silique on the primary inflorescence was significantly lower than in the WT plant ([fig2]). As the inflorescence developed (as observed before with fertility phenotypes: [bib49]et al., 2010), the mutant plants showed improved siliques and seed production over time (see Supplementary Fig. S5 at JXB online). Aberrant floral development in RBL10-2 mutants. (a) WT flowers. (b) Mutant flowers showed various abnormalities (arrowed), the stigma particularly commonly affected. (c) A return to normal morphology was observed when the mutant line was complemented with the RBL10–GFP construct. (This figure is available in colour at JXB online.) The RBL10–GFP construct was transformed into the RBL10-2 mutant line to discover if returning the WT ORF would restore a wild-type phenotype. Antibiotic-resistant seedlings expressing GFP (viewed with epifluorescence microscopy) were selected and grown on to produce seed and for further investigation. Complementing the RBL10 mutant with the GFP construct did indeed correct the mutant phenotype. There was no significant difference between the complemented line and the WT in the major aspects of the mutant phenotype, namely number of seeds/silique on the primary inflorescence ([fig2]), and previously aberrant stigma, anther, and petal morphology was corrected ([fig7]).
!~MM~! Wild-type (WT) and mutant lines were grown in compost in greenhouses maintained at 20 °C. For growth assays and transformed plants, half-strength Murashige and Skoog (1/2MS) agar (pH 5.7; Duchefa, Haarlem, The Netherlands) was used, and plates or pots were incubated in a growth room at 20 °C with light of 10 μmol m−2 s−1 (16 h light cycles). For high-intensity light assays when testing photosynthetic parameters, a Fitotron growth chamber (Weiss-Gallenkamp, Loughborough, Leicestershire, UK) was used. Two T-DNA insertion lines (N537037, here designated RBL10-1 and N592293, RBL10-2) were purchased from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (NASC; Nottingham, UK) and segregated until homozygous. The presence and location of single T-DNA insertions were confirmed by Southern analysis according to [bib14] and the absence of transcript by RT-PCR. Growth assays of mutant lines were conducted on plates in which one half of each plate was sown with mutant and the other half with WT seed, with 6–11 seeds on each half for germination counts. ImageJ (http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/) was used to record measurements from digital images of plates. DNA manipulation was performed essentially according to [bib43]et al. (1989). Primers for amplifying cDNA were 5′-ATGGTATCAGTGTCATTATCTCA-3′ and 5′-TCAAAGCCGTCGCTGTTCATT-3′, along with 5′-GGATTTAAGCTCGAGTCTGA-3′ and 5′-CACCAAGTAAGCCACCAA-3′ for locating T-DNA insertions. For the RBL10-GFP fusion protein, primers were 5′-CGGGATCCGAAGATGGTATCAGTGTCA-3′ and 5′-GGAATTCAAGCCGTCGCTGTTCATT-3′. Primers for the RBL10 promoter were 5′-GCTCTAGACTTACATGTTACTAACTTCTA-3′ and 5′-TTCCCGGGATCTTCCCCTTCACGTTTC-3′. All constructs were based upon vectors from the John Innes Centre, Norwich, UK, or the gift of the J Haseloff group, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK, namely a CaMV 35S-eGFP-containing pGreen0029 vector for fusing RBL10 N-terminal of GFP, and pGreen0029 containing the β-glucuronidase gene for constructing the RBL10 promoter–GUS vector. For transcript analysis via RT-PCR, primers were used that would generate product across introns to differentiate any genomic contamination in template from transcript. To investigate transcript levels in specific tissues, RT-PCR was carried out using control primers to actin8 (5′-AGAAAGATGCGTATGTTGGTGA-3′ and 5′-CTGCTGGAAAGTGCTGAGGGAA-3′), and the appropriate template concentration was used. Promoter–β-glucuronidase (GUS) and 35S-RBL10-GFP-encoding vectors were transformed into wild-type or RBL10-mutant Arabidopsis as required for localization studies or complementation, via Agrobacterium tumefaciens and floral dipping ([bib22]). Transformed plants (T1) were grown on 1/2MS plates as above, supplemented with antibiotic as appropriate, and antibiotic-resistant plants were grown on in compost. The RBL10-2 mutant was complemented to ensure a return of WT characteristics by transforming it with a WT copy of the RBL10 transcript fused N-terminal of GFP, under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. Effects on seed and floral phenotypes were checked in three independent transformant lines. For promoter–GUS localization, tissues were stained according to [bib27]et al. (1987). Tissues were fixed in 90% (v/v) ice-cold acetone for 20 min, rinsed twice in GUS working solution [0.1 M sodium phosphate buffer, 0.5 mM K3Fe(CN)6, 0.5 mM K4Fe(CN)6, 10 mM Na2EDTA, 0.1% (v/v) Triton X-100; pH 7.0] and stained by adding 40 mg ml−1 stock 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl β-D-glucuronide cyclohexamine salt at 12.5 μg ml−1 buffer, vacuum infiltrating the tissue, and incubating for 12–48 h as required at 37 °C. Tissues were cleared with 70% (v/v) ethanol. Pollen and inflorescence tissues were examined using cryo-scanning electron microscopy (SEM; Oxford Instruments CT 1500, Abingdon, Oxfordshire, UK). The Alexander stain was carried out essentially according to [bib41]et al. (2002). Initial visualization to identify GFP-expressing plants was by epifluorescence (Nikon Eclipse 50i, epifluorescence visualized using the UV-2A filter block). For confocal microscopy, tissues were excited at the peak of GFP absorbance at 488 nm and emission recorded at 500–520 by confocal microscopy [Leica (Milton Keynes, UK) TCS-SP1, or TCS-SP5, equipped with Coherent Enterprise (Santa Paula, CA, USA) UV laser]. Samples were examined with a ×64 oil immersion objective lens with a numerical aperture of 1.3. Fluorescence intensity was measured in 10 nm windows and displayed in the TCS (Leica) software as spectra. Control plants were untransformed WT, Dr5-GFP auxin reporter transformed plants (gift of L Ostergaard, John Innes Centre, UK), and extensin-GFP-expressing lines (gift of J Haseloff, University of Cambridge). Pulse amplitude modulation fluorimetry was used to measure the quantum yield of Photosystem II ([bib8]) according to the manufacturer’s instructions (Hansatech, King’s Lynn, Norfolk UK). Estimation of chlorophyll content was carried out according to [bib24] and [bib42]et al. (1989), extracting pigment with TRIS-Cl (pH 8.0)-buffered 80% (v/v) acetone. Anthocyanin extraction was with 1% HCl–methanol according to [bib37]et al. (2005).
