!~ABS~! ABC1 (activity of bc1 complex) is a newly discovered atypical kinase in plants. Here, it is reported that an ABC1 protein kinase-encoded gene, AtACDO1 (ABC1-like kinase related to chlorophyll degradation and oxidative stress), located in chloroplasts, was up-regulated by methyl viologen (MV) treatment. AtACDO1 RNAi (RNA interference) plants showed developmental defects, including yellow-green leaves and reduced contents of carotenoids and chlorophyll; the chlorophyll reduction was associated with a change in the numbers of chlorophyll-binding proteins of the photosynthetic complexes. Chlorophyllide (Chlide) a the first product of chlorophyll degradation, and pheophorbide a, a subsequent intermediate of Chlide a degradation, were increased in AtACDO1 RNAi plants. The AtACDO1 RNAi plants were more sensitive to high light and MV than wild-type plants. The AtACDO1 RNAi plants had lower transcript levels of the oxidative stress response genes FSD1, CSD1, CAT1, and UTG71C1 after MV treatment compared with wild-type or 35S::AtACDO1 plants. Taken together, the results suggest that the chloroplast AtACDO1 protein plays important roles in mediating chlorophyll degradation and maintaining the number of chlorophyll-binding photosynthetic thylakoid membranes, as well as in the photooxidative stress response.
!~RES~! In Arabidopsis, there were 17 members of the ABC1 proteins (Fig. 1A), and two of them, At4g01660 and AtOSA1, have been studied so far. At4g01660 has been predicted to be localized in mitochondria and allowed a partial restoration of a deficiency in complex III activity when expressed in S. cerevisiae (CITATION). AtOSA1, on the other hand, is a chloroplast protein and was found to be essential for ROS scavenging under oxidative stress (CITATION). To investigate whether other ABC1-like genes are involved in the photooxidative stress response, the expression profiles of Arabidopsis ABC1 genes were analysed under photooxidative stress treatment by quantitative RT-PCR. The quantitative RT-PCR data demonstrated that the At1G11390, At1G61640, At1G79600, At2G40090 At4G01660, AtACDO1, and At5G24810 transcripts were up-regulated after photooxidation treatment induced by MV under low light intensity in 2 h (Fig. 1B). Among these up-regulated genes, the transcript levels of At1G61640, At1G79600, At4G01660, and AtACDO1 were >2-fold higher than those of the control. Predictably, two of them (At1G79600 and AtACDO1) were found to be localized in the chloroplast by using the Target P (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/) (CITATION), WoLF PSORT (http://wolfpsort.org/) (CITATION), and SherLoc (http://www-bs.informatik.uni-tuebingen.de/Services/SherLoc) (CITATION) programs. Thus, these two genes were examined in more detail. In order to investigate their function in the photooxidative stress response in Arabidopsis, the T-DNA insertion mutants of these two genes were purchased from ABRC (Ohio State University). However, no phenotype was observed in the homozygote T-DNA insertion mutant of At1G79600 under normal growth conditions (data not shown). Therefore, the functional investigation focused on AtACDO1 hereafter. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To understand the function of AtACDO1, its expression pattern was first investigated and its subcellular localization was confirmed. RT-PCR analysis detected AtACDO1 in different organs of 6-week-old flowering plants, and revealed that this gene is expressed in all Arabidopsis tissues, especially in leaves (Fig. 2A). To determine the expression pattern in detail, the expression of the AtACDO1 promoter–GUS fusion protein was analysed. This consisted of a 1.3 kb DNA fragment upstream of the AtACDO1 ATG start codon fused with the GUS gene, and the construct was transformed into WT Arabidopsis (Col-0). Histochemical staining revealed that GUS activity was observed in all tissues at all developmental stages from seed germination to flowering, except in the root tips (Fig. 2B). This confirmed that AtACDO1 was expressed at all developmental stages and throughout the Arabidopsis plant. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To verify its subcellular localization, AtACDO1 was fused (C-terminus) with GFP and transiently expressed under the control of the Cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter in Arabidopsis protoplasts (Fig. 2C). The signal was visualized by confocal microscopy. The observed localization was identical to that obtained for the At5g19750–GFP (Fig. 2C), a plastid envelope membrane protein of the chloroplast (CITATION). This suggested that the localization of AtACDO1 was in the chloroplast, which was consistent with previous proteomic data (CITATION). To study the physiological role of AtACDO1 in Arabidopsis, AtACDO1 RNAi and overexpressing transgenic plants were generated due to the unavailability of a T-DNA insertion mutant for AtACDO1 (Supplementary Fig. S1 at JXB online). Of these, 10 kanamycin-resistant (RNAi plants) and 12 hygromycin-resistant (overexpressing plants) T0 transformants were transferred into soil and grown in a greenhouse, and self-pollinated to obtain segregating T1 progeny for genetic analysis. All RNAi lines showed a 3:1 segregation pattern for kanamycin resistance, and two homozygous lines, AtACDO1 RNAi#6 and AtACDO1 RNAi#25, showed a significantly reduced expression pattern of AtACDO1 (Fig. 3C). All these overexpression transgenic lines also showed increased expression of AtACDO1; the expression in two selected lines, 35S::AtACDO1#3 and 35S::AtACDO1#8, is shown in Fig. 3C. The AtACDO1 RNAi#6 and AtACDO1 RNAi#25 plants possessed a yellow-green leaf phenotype in MS medium, in particular the AtACDO1 RNAi#25 plants (Fig. 3A); the Chl and total carotenoid contents were significantly reduced in 20-day-old leaves of both lines (Fig. 3D). On the other hand, the 35S::AtACDO1#3 and 35S::AtACDO1#8 plants showed no phenotypic differences from the WT when grown in MS medium (Fig. 3B), but the content of Chls and total carotenoids in both lines were significantly higher than those of the WT (Fig. 3E). Thus, the AtACDO1 RNAi#25 and 35S::AtACDO1#8 lines were selected for further analysis. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] A remarkable yellow-green leaf phenotype was observed in the early developmental stage (3 weeks old) of AtACDO1 RNAi#25 plants (Fig. 4A). However, there was no difference in leaf colour between 35S::AtACDO1#8 and WT plants. Interestingly, the yellow-green phenotype of AtACDO1 RNAi#25 plants disappeared at later developmental stages (8 weeks old) (Fig. 4B). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To investigate exactly which pigment was reduced in AtACDO1 RNAi#25 plants, the pigment contents of 3-week-old leaves were measured in AtACDO1 RNAi#25, WT, and 35S::AtACDO1#8 plants based on the same fresh weight by HPLC. The results showed that all pigments including neoxanthin, violaxanthin, lutein, β-carotene, Chl a, and Chl b were reduced in AtACDO1 RNAi#25 plants relative to WT plants. In contrast, an increase in Chls and other pigments was observed in 35S::AtACDO1#8 plants (Supplementary Fig. S2 at JXB online). Interestingly, the distribution of neoxanthin, violaxanthin, lutein, β-carotene, Chl a, and Chl b in the total pigments was unaffected in AtACDO1 RNAi#25, 35S::AtACDO1#8, and WT plants (Table 1). This suggested that the defect of AtACDO1 caused an overall decrease of the photosynthetic pigments. The chloroplast ultrastructure in leaves of yellow-green AtACDO1 RNAi#25 seedlings was examined using TEM. In 20-day-old leaves of WT and AtACDO1 RNAi#25 plants grown under normal conditions, chloroplasts were crescent shaped and contained a well-formed thylakoid structure, including stroma thylakoids and grana thylakoids (Fig. 5A). Thylakoid membranes (grana and stroma lamellae) were not reduced in AtACDO1 RNAi#25 chloroplasts compared with WT chloroplasts. Since there was little difference in chloroplast ultrastructure between AtACDO1 RNAi#25 and the WT, the level of photosynthetic pigment-containing complexes was further examined by Blue Native-PAGE (BN-PAGE) (Supplementary Fig. S3A at JXB online) and sucrose gradient centrifugation (Supplementary Fig. S3B). These separations were done at constant Chl concentration as indicated by the Chl content. The results indicated that there was no defect in any photosynthetic complexes in AtACDO1 RNAi#25 plants. Furthermore, Chl fluorescence induction experiments showed that the ratio of variable fluorescence to maximum fluorescence (Fv/Fm), which reflects the maximum photochemical efficiency of PSII, the quantum yield of PSII (ΦPSII), and the electron transport rate (ETR) were not significantly different among WT, AtACDO1 RNAi#25, and 35S::AtACDO1#8 leaves (Supplementary Fig. S4A). Also, non-photochemical energy dissipation was similar in WT, AtACDO1 RNAi#25, and 35S::AtACDO1#8 leaves (Supplementary Fig. S4B). Thus, the results suggested that the strong decrease in pigment content of AtACDO1 RNAi#25 leaves was not associated with a pronounced defect in the photosynthetic complexes, or the organization and photochemical efficiency of PSII. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Based on the fact that the reduction of pigments in AtACDO1 RNAi#25 leaves did not correspond to any defect of thylakoid pigment complexes, it was presumed that the pigment loss in AtACDO1 RNAi#25 leaves could be attributed to a decrease in chloroplast number in the cells or to a change in the number of photosystem complexes in chloroplasts, or to both. To investigate this hypothesis, the chloroplast numbers were counted in WT, AtACDO1 RNAi#25, and 35S::AtACDO1#8 mesophyll cells. The results indicated that there were no significant differences in chloroplast number in cells among 20-day-old leaves of the WT, AtACDO1 RNAi#25, and 35S::AtACDO1#8 (Fig. 5B, C). Furthermore, the levels of photosystem proteins were examined by immunoblot analyses performed with antibodies raised against specific subunits of photosystem proteins at the same developmental stage (Fig. 5D). As compared with the WT, the protein abundance of Lhca1, Lhca2, Lhcb2, Lhcb5, and D1 was decreased, by 24, 6, 10, 13, and 4.7%, respectively, in AtACDO1 RNAi#25 when 40 μg of total protein was used as a loading control. The protein abundance of PsaA, the subunit of PSI, was enhanced by 87% in the AtACDO1 RNAi plants. Similar results were observed in the AtACDO1 RNAi plants when 60 μg of total protein was used as a loading control (Fig. 5E). Thus, these results suggested that the lack of AtACDO1 affects the numbers of Chl-binding proteins of the photosynthetic complexes. Previous data showed that Chls were a major factor for the assembly of the Chl-binding photosynthetic complexes (CITATION). To investigate whether Chl synthesis was affected in AtACDO1 RNAi#25 leaves, the Chl content was examined during seedling greening. WT, AtACDO1 RNAi#25, and 35S::AtACDO1#8 seeds were germinated on agar in the dark for 3 d after vernalization and etiolated seedlings were transferred to normal light (100 μmol m−2 s−1). As shown in Supplementary Fig. S5A–C at JXB online, the greening of AtACDO1 RNAi#25 seedlings under light was similar to that of WT and 35S::AtACDO1#8 seedlings. For instance, after 5 h illumination, the Chl content of WT, AtACDO1 RNAi#25, and 35S::AtACDO1#8 seedlings (90 seedlings of each genotype) reached similar levels (Supplementary Fig. S5B). After 10 h light exposure, the Chl content reached about twice that found for the 5 h exposure (Supplementary Fig. S5C), but there was no difference in Chl content among WT, AtACDO1 RNAi#25, and 35S::AtACDO1#8 seedlings. The direct Chl precursor, protochlorophyllide a (Pchlide a), was quantified spectrophotometrically in 20-day-old leaves of WT, AtACDO1 RNAi#25, and 35S::AtACDO1#8 leaves; and no difference in the content of Pchlide a was observed. The same results were observed with regard to the content of ProtoIV (Supplementary Fig. S5D), the precursor of Pchlide a in Chl biosynthesis. Furthermore, the transcript level of genes involved in Chl biosynthesis, such as hydroxymethylbilane synthase (HEMC), NADPH:Pchlide oxidoreductase (POR A, B, and C), Mg chelatase (CHLD, CHLH, and CHLI subunit), and divinyl reductase (DVR) did not change in leaves of 20-day-old seedlings among the three genotypes ((Supplementary Fig. S6). On the other hand, no difference was observed in the transcript levels of zeta-carotene desaturase (ZDS) and phytoene desaturase (PDS) associated with carotenoid metabolism among WT, AtACDO1 RNAi#25, and 35S::AtACDO1#8 plants (Supplementary Fig. S6). These results suggested that AtACDO1 was not involved in Chl biosynthesis. To test whether AtACDO1 was involved in Chl degradation, the expression of genes associated with Chl degradation was investigated. Interestingly, the transcript levels of chlorophyllase (CLH1 and CLH2), non-yellow colouring 1 (NYC1), pheophorbide a oxygenase (ACD1), and red chlorophyll catabolite reductase (ACD2) were not affected in WT, AtACDO1 RNAi#25, and 35S::AtACDO1#8 plants (Supplementary Fig. S6 at JXB online). However, when compared with WT leaves, the relative amount of chlorophyllide (Chlide) a, the direct degradation product of Chls, had significantly increased in AtACDO1 RNAi#25 leaves (Fig. 6). In contrast, the relative content of Chlide a in 35S::AtACDO1#8 was significantly lower than that of the WT (Fig. 6). Furthermore, there was a significant increase in the content of pheophorbide (Pheide) a, a subsequent intermediate of Chlide a degradation, in AtACDO1 RNAi#25 leaves. These findings indicated that AtACDO1 was involved in Chl degradation. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Since the expression of AtACDO1 was induced by MV (Fig. 1B), it was decided to test whether AtACDO1 is involved in the photooxidative stress response. Two-week-old WT, AtACDO1 RNAi#25, and 35S::AtACDO1#8 plants were sprayed with 20 μM MV under continuous light (100 μmol m−2 s−1) for 24 h. A serious wilting phenotype in AtACDO1 RNAi#25 leaves was observed after treatment (Fig. 7A). In contrast, the 35S::AtACDO1#8 plants showed less wilting of leaves compared with treated WT plants. Accordingly, compared with the untreated plants, the Chl content in AtACDO1 RNAi#25 plants was reduced more severely than that in WT and 35S::AtACDO1#8 plants (Fig. 7B). These result indicated that the AtACCDO1 knockdown plant was more sensitive to the MV-induced photooxidative stress. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To investigate the role of AtACDO1 in regulating the expression of oxidative stress-related genes, WT, AtACDO1 RNAi#25, and 35S::AtACDO1#8 seedlings were treated with MV to determine the expression of oxidative stress response genes such as catalase 1 (CAT1), Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase 1 (CSD1), Fe superoxide dismutase 1 (FSD1), glutathione peroxidase 3 (GPX3), and the UDP-glycosyltransferases gene, UGT71C1 (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). CSD1, CAT1, and GPX3 were up-regulated in the WT after 20 μM MV treatment. In contrast, UGT71C1, CAT1, and FSD1 were down-regulated in AtACDO1 RNAi#25 plants (Fig. 7C). However, the expression level of FSD1, CSD1, CAT1, and UGT71C1 was lower in AtACDO1 RNAi#25 plants than in WT and 35S::AtACDO1#8 plants after MV treatment. Interestingly the transcript level of FSD1 in 35S::AtACDO1#8 plants was more than twice higher than that in the WT under untreated conditions (Fig. 7C). These results suggested that AtACDO1 may play a role, directly or indirectly, in the response to photooxidative stress. To confirm further whether AtACDO1 was involved in the photooxidative response, the 20-day-old plants of the three genotypes were grown in high light (300 μmol m−2 s−1) for an additional 7 d. As shown in Fig. 7D, the AtACDO1 RNAi#25 plants exhibited more necrotic leaves than the WT (Fig. 7D). In this case, anthocyanin accumulated significantly less in AtACDO1 RNAi#25 and more in 35S::AtACDO1#8 plants compared with the WT (Fig. 7E). Superoxide production was visualized by NBT staining of seedlings after exposure to high light (1500 μmol m−2 s−1) for 2 h. The dark-blue stain was clearly observed across the surface of seedlings of WT, AtACDO1 RNAi#25, and 35S::AtACDO1#8 plants (Fig. 7F). No difference was observed in the production of superoxide and H2O2 among the three genotypes under normal conditions (Fig. 7F). However, when exposed to high light for 2 h, AtACDO1 RNAi#25 seedlings showed substantially more superoxide production and accumulation of H2O2 than the WT (Fig. 7F), while 35S::AtACDO1#8 seedlings produced less than the wild type. These data indicated that AtACDO1 is involved in the photooxidative stress response.
!~MM~! All the wild-type (WT) and mutant A. thaliana lines used in this study were in the Columbia-0 (Col-0) background. SALK_068628 and SALK_130499 mutants used in this work were provided by the ABRC (Ohio State University). Plants were grown at 24 °C, with an ∼100 μmol m−2 s−1 light intensity under a 16 h light/8 h dark photoperiod. All the transgenic lines used in this study were homozygous for the transgene (F4 progeny). Arabidopsis seeds were grown on Petri dishes containing MS basal salt mixture medium (Sigma) with 1.5% sucrose and 0.8% agar. Probest High fidelity DNA polymerase (Takara) was used for the amplification reactions, and constructs were verified by sequencing. For the pAtACDO1::GUS fusion, a 1.3 kb genomic fragment upstream of the AtACDO1 ATG start codon was amplified by PCR using AtACDO1-pF and AtACDO1-pR primers, and it was transcriptionally fused with the GUS (β-glucuronidase) reporter gene in the binary vector pBI101.1. For the 35S::AtACDO1-GFP fusion construct, the entire coding region of AtACDO1 was inserted directly upstream of the EGFP (enhanced green fluorescent protein) coding region in pBEGFP (pBEGFP is reconstructed based on pBin19). 35S::myc-AtACDO1 was prepared by inserting the PCR-amplified coding region of AtACDO1 fused with MYC in the N-terminus of AtACDO1 into the pCAMBIA1300-221 vector under the control of the 35S promoter. To construct the RNAi plasmid, an open reading frame (530 bp) of the AtACDO1 full-length cDNA was inserted upstream of the intron, in the sense orientation. The same open reading frame was inserted downstream of the intron in the antisense orientation. The complete AtACDO1 RNAi construct was inserted into the XhoI/BamHI sites of pCanG. Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA105 carrying different constructs was used to transform WT (Col-0) plants via floral dip transformation (CITATION). Total RNA was isolated using Trizol Reagent (Invitrogen). Purified RNA (DNA free) was obtained by DNase I (RNase free) treatment according to the manufacturer’s instructions (Takara Bio, Inc). cDNAs were synthesized from 500 ng of total RNA using a Prime Script™ RT reagent Kit (Perfect Real Time) (Takara Bio, Inc.). Semi-quantitative reverse transcription-PCRs (RT-PCRs) were carried out with gene-specific primers, designed using PRIMER EXPRESS 2.0 (Applied Biosystems; http://www.appliedbiosystems.com). The primers used herein for semi-quantitative RT-PCR and quantitative PCR (qPCR) are listed in Supplementary Table S1 available at JXB online. The qPCR was analysed by means of real-time PCR and it was performed using the ABI Prism7500 Fast Real-time PCR system (Applied Biosystems Inc.) with SYBR Premix Ex Taq (TaKaRa Bio, Inc.). The PCR program was: 95 °C, 30 s; 95 °C, 5 s; 56 °C, 34 s; 40 cycles. The melting curve was acquired at the end. The transcript data were calculated by ABI Prism 7500 SDS Software Ver. 2.04 (Applied Biosystems Inc.), and were normalized using ACTIN2 as an internal control; the relative expression level was calculated by 2–ΔΔCt. Each experiment was performed with three replicates. The histochemical staining of O2·– and H2O2 was performed as previously described (CITATION) with minor modifications. In the case of O2·–, leaves after treatment were vacuum infiltrated directly with 0.1 mg ml−1 nitroblue tetrazolium (NBT) in 25 mM KOH-HEPES buffer (pH 7.8) and incubated at 25 °C in the dark for 2 h. In the case of H2O2, leaves were vacuum infiltrated with 1 mg ml−1 diaminobenzidine (DAB) in 50 mM TRIS-acetate (pH 3.8) and incubated at 25 °C in the dark for 24 h. In both cases, leaves were rinsed in 80% (v/v) ethanol for 10 min at 70 °C, mounted in lactic acid/phenol/water (1:1:1, v/v/v), and photographed. Histochemical detection of GUS activity was performed as previously described (CITATION). Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts were isolated from leaves of 4-week-old plants and transiently transfected according to a previously described protocol (CITATION). The autofluorescence (red) of chloroplasts and fluorescence of GFP in the transformed protoplasts were imaged using a confocal laser scanning microscope (LSM510, Carl Zeiss, Oberkochen, Germany) at 12 h after transfection. For pigment quantification, leaves (∼0.2 g fresh weight) were removed from plants. Chls were extracted by 80% acetone and analysed by spectrofluorometry (CITATION) or by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC; CITATION). Carotenoids were extracted and analysed by HPLC as previously described (CITATION). Identification of pigments was based on their respective retention time or the references. Standard Chl a and Chl b were separated usingy LK 6 silica gel 60A thin-layer chromatography (TLC) plates (Whatman) in the solvent mixture (hexane:diethyl ether:acetone, 60:30:20, v/v/v/). Chlorophyllide (Chlide) a was prepared by digesting Chl a with chlorophyllase, as previously described (CITATION). Pheophorbide (Pheide) a was prepared by adding one drop of 2 N HCl to the Chlide a solution. Chlide a and Pheide a were separated by HPLC using a solvent system described elsewhere (CITATION). Chlide a and Pheide a were detected by absorbance spectroscopy using an online diode array spectrophotometer (Waters 996). Excitation and emission wavelengths were set at 430 nm and 655 nm for Chlide a and Pheide a. Protein isolation was carried out as previously described (CITATION). The protein concentrations were assayed using a BCA Assay kit according to the manufacturer’s protocol. A 40 μg aliquot of total proteins was separated by SDS–PAGE, transferred onto nitrocellulose membranes, and immunoblotted with various thylakoid membrane protein antibodies. Antibodies were detected using an enhanced chemiluminescence detection system (ECL; Amersham Lifesciences, http://gehealthcare.com/lifesciences) following the manufacturer’s instructions. Chloroplasts of mesophyll cells were observed by differential interference contrast (DIC) microscopy. The fourth and fifth 20-day-old rosette leaves were collected and fixed in 3.5% glutaraldehyde in the dark for 60 min, placed in 0.1 M Na2-EDTA, pH 9.0, overnight to allow the fixative to soften, and incubated at 60 °C with shaking for 2–3 h (CITATION). Then, the tissues were mounted in water and cells were released by tapping on the cover slip. The chloroplasts were observed and counted directly on the slide (Leica DMR). Images were captured with a Leica DC 300F digital camera. The area of cells was measured using Leica Qwin software. For TEM observation, sections of leaf tissue were prepared for electron microscope observation as previously described (CITATION). To investigate the effects of high irradiance on plant growth, 3-week-old Arabidopsis plants grown in normal conditions were transferred to a growth cabinet under continuous light (300 μmol m−2 s−1) at 20 °C for 1 week. For short-term high light treatment, 7-day-old seedlings grown under normal conditions were exposed to a photon flux density of 1500 μmol m−2 s−1 for 2 h, and the ROS staining was assayed. For MV treatment, 2-week-old-plants grown in soil were sprayed with 20 μM MV solution containing 0.1% (v/v) Tween-20 under continuous growth light (100 μmol m−2 s−1) for 24 h. The treated plants were collected for photographing and for determination of the content of Chls. The seedlings of three genetype were grown on MS medium for 7 d; the seedlings were then transferred to liquid MS medium containing 20 μM MV for 5 h. The treated seedlings were collected for total RNA isolation and quantitative RT–PCR. A one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) was performed and, when significance was detected, sample means were separated using Fisher’s LSD test at the P < 0.05 level of significance using the SPSS statistical software (SPSS 16.0, SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA).
