!~ABS~! Nucleotide de novo synthesis is highly conserved among organisms and represents an essential biochemical pathway. In plants, the two initial enzymatic reactions of de novo pyrimidine synthesis occur in the plastids. By use of green fluorescent protein fusions, clear support is provided for a localization of the remaining reactions in the cytosol and mitochondria. This implies that carbamoyl aspartate, an intermediate of this pathway, must be exported and precursors of pyrimidine salvage (i.e., nucleobases or nucleosides) are imported into plastids. A corresponding uracil transport activity could be measured in intact plastids isolated from cauliflower (Brassica oleracea) buds. PLUTO (for plastidic nucleobase transporter) was identified as a member of the Nucleobase:Cation-Symporter1 protein family from Arabidopsis thaliana, capable of transporting purine and pyrimidine nucleobases. A PLUTO green fluorescent protein fusion was shown to reside in the plastid envelope after expression in Arabidopsis protoplasts. Heterologous expression of PLUTO in an Escherichia coli mutant lacking the bacterial uracil permease uraA allowed a detailed biochemical characterization. PLUTO transports uracil, adenine, and guanine with apparent affinities of 16.4, 0.4, and 6.3 μM, respectively. Transport was markedly inhibited by low concentrations of a proton uncoupler, indicating that PLUTO functions as a proton-substrate symporter. Thus, a protein for the absolutely required import of pyrimidine nucleobases into plastids was identified.
!~RES~! The initial aim of this work was to identify a uracil import system in plastids. From the recently published work, it became obvious that such an import system must exist because subsequent enzymatic steps in nucleoside salvage and catabolism are distributed between plastid and cytosol (for details, see Introduction). To obtain experimental evidence for the capacity of plastids to import uracil, cauliflower (Brassica oleracea) buds were chosen as source tissue for plastid isolation. Heterotrophic plastids from cauliflower can be isolated with high purity and intactness and were shown to be capable of transporting various metabolites, such as triose and hexose phosphates and ATP (CITATION). Uptake of [14C]-uracil into isolated plastids was determined by the silicone oil technique. Import of uracil (10 μM) was linear with time for at least 10 min and accounted for 100 ± 13 nmol g−1 protein h−1. The concentration-dependent uptake of uracil into plastids followed Michaelis-Menten kinetics and revealed an apparent affinity of 12.6 μM (Figure 1). The activity of the salvage pathway enzyme uracil phosphoribosyltransferase (UPRT) was also radiometrically assayed in isolated cauliflower plastids and accounted for 5.6 ± 0.5 μmol g−1 protein h−1. [[FIGURE]] Yeast cells import uracil via the nucleobase permease FUR4 to support pyrimidine nucleotide salvage (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). FUR4 belongs to the Nucleobase:Cation Symporter1 (NCS1) family of transport proteins, also known as purine-related transporters (CITATION; www.tcdb.org). The closest Arabidopsis homolog to this protein is encoded by At5g03555. The deduced amino acid sequence exhibits 23% identity and 43% similarity to FUR4 (Figure 2). The N terminus of the At5g03555 translation product contains a predicted target sequence for chloroplasts (ChloroP_v1.1; CITATION). Therefore, this protein represented a good candidate for a plastidic uracil importer and was named PLUTO (for plastidic nucleobase transporter). PLUTO encodes a protein of 599 amino acids in length with a calculated molecular mass of 65.4 kD. Furthermore, PLUTO is a highly hydrophobic membrane protein with 12 predicted transmembrane α-helical spanners, which is typical for NCS1 family members (CITATION; CITATION). The first structure of a NCS1 family member was solved from Microbacterium liquefaciens (CITATION); in that work, 34 highly conserved amino acid residues were identified in NCS1 members from bacteria and fungi. Thirty of these residues are also conserved in PLUTO (Figure 2, marked by a black background). [[FIGURE]] PLUTO expression was induced in Escherichia coli mutants lacking the bacterial endogenous uracil permease uraA, obtained from the National Institute of Genetics, Shizuoka, Japan (www.nig.ac.jp/). After induction of PLUTO expression, E. coli cells showed uptake of [14C]-uracil in a time-dependent manner. Uracil uptake was linear for at least 5 min and then accounted for 3.75 μmol mg−1 protein, whereas noninduced cells imported only 0.52 μmol mg−1 protein (Figure 3A). The apparent affinity of PLUTO for uracil was 16.4 μM (Figure 3B). A detailed analysis of the substrate specificity was performed by direct uptake studies of the nucleobases adenine and guanine. Time-dependent uptake studies with [14C]-adenine showed clearly increasing uptake upon induction, whereas uptake into noninduced E. coli cells remained low (Figure 4A). After 5 min, induced cells imported 4.8 μmol adenine g−1 protein and controls only 1.5 μmol adenine g−1 protein (Figure 4A): Uptake was linear for ~5 min. Similar results were obtained for [14C]-guanine uptake. After 5 min, induced cells imported 3.9 μmol guanine g−1 protein and controls only 0.5 μmol guanine g−1 protein (Figure 4A). The apparent affinities for adenine and guanine uptake calculated by subtracting the uptake rates of noninduced cells in substrate-dependent import studies were as follows: 0.38 μM for adenine (Figure 4B) and 6.29 μM for guanine (Figure 4C). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To check whether nucleosides are also substrates of PLUTO, these were tested in corresponding uptake studies. However, when radiolabeled uridine was supplied to E. coli cells and cellular extracts were subsequently run on thin layer chromatography, a fast cleavage to the corresponding nucleobases was observed (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Cleavage is assumed to occur in the periplasmic space of the bacterial cells by corresponding enzyme activities as shown for adenosine (CITATION). Therefore, the question whether nucleosides are also substrates of PLUTO cannot be addressed with this experimental system. Some of the characterized NCS1 proteins function as nucleobase-sodium symporters (CITATION). To test whether this also holds true for PLUTO, uracil uptake was measured in the presence of 25 or 50 mM sodium in the uptake medium. However, no effect of sodium upon uracil transport was observed compared with controls without addition of cations or 25 mM LiCl (Figure 5A). Instead, the protonophore m-chlorophenylhydrazone (CCCP) inhibited uracil transport almost completely at relatively low concentrations of 25 μM (Figure 5B). The addition of 5 μM CCCP resulted in 75% lower uptake activity, and 25 μM CCCP reduced uracil uptake to 7%, compared with untreated samples (Figure 5B). Most likely, PLUTO functions as a nucleobase-proton symporter. [[FIGURE]] To check for the subcellular localization of PLUTO, green fluorescent protein (GFP) was translationally fused to the C-terminal end of PLUTO. Transient expression in Arabidopsis protoplasts revealed a clear plastidic localization of PLUTO-GFP. In single confocal slices, the red autofluorescence of chlorophyll is surrounded by GFP fluorescence, indicating a labeling of the plastid envelope (Figure 6). A GFP fusion of the plastidic ATP/ADP transporter NTT1 (CITATION) showed a similar distribution of GFP fluorescence (Figure 6). By contrast, an N-terminal truncated PLUTO-GFP construct no longer colocalized with plastids but was found in internal structures resembling a network [Figure 6, PLUTO (-)]. A similar truncated PLUTO construct without GFP was tested for uracil transport capacity. However, no transport activity could be detected. Particle bombardment of onion epidermal peels with PLUTO-GFP showed results in line with those observed in Arabidopsis protoplasts: Only plastids showed GFP fluorescence (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). [[FIGURE]] Monitoring PLUTO expression by quantitative RT-PCR on cDNA from different Arabidopsis tissues revealed a medium transcript level in most tissues with up to 2 times higher levels in stems and seeds compared with the control gene EF1α (Figure 7A). On a developmental scale, higher PLUTO expression was observed in 2- to 10-d-old seedlings, compared with 4-week-old plants (Figure 7B). These results are in good agreement with microarray data (CITATION). Interestingly a threefold upregulation of PLUTO expression was observed in PYD1 knockout mutants, defective in uracil catabolism (Figure 7B). [[FIGURE]] To address the question about a possible function of PLUTO within nucleotide metabolism, a closer look at the corresponding processes in plastids was necessary. In the case of pyrimidine de novo synthesis, it is not clear which enzymatic steps are located in plastids. To clarify this situation, the enzymes facilitating the second (ATCase, At3g20330), third (dihydroorotase [DHOase], At4g22930), fourth (DHODH, At5g23300), and fifth (orotate phosphoribosyltransferase/orotidine-5′-phosphate decarboxylase [UMPSase], At3g54470) enzymatic steps in pyrimidine de novo synthesis were synthesized as GFP fusion proteins in Arabidopsis protoplasts. DHOase-GFP and UMPSase-GFP fusion proteins clearly located to the cytosol, whereas DHODH-GFP was associated with mitochondria (Figure 8). Based on these results, a model describing the subcellular organization of pyrimidine metabolism in Arabidopsis was developed (Figure 9). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! For heterologous expression studies and uptake experiments, an Escherichia coli transposon insertion strain lacking the endogenous uracil permease uraA (JD23420) was ordered from the National Institute of Genetics (Shizuoka, Japan; http://www.shigen.nig.ac.jp/ecoli/strain/top/top.jsp) and grown in YT medium (0.8% peptone, 0.5% yeast extract, and 0.25% NaCl) with or without ampicillin (50 mg L−1) and kanamycin (25 mg L−1). Plasmids were propagated in E. coli cells (XL1Blue; Stratagene) and grown in YT medium with or without ampicillin (50 mg L−1) and tetracycline (2.5 mg L−1). Cauliflower (Brassica oleracea cv botrytis) floral buds were purchased from the local market. Cauliflower bud amyloplasts used for uracil uptake studies were isolated according to the method of CITATION, modified as described by CITATION. The isolated plastids were resuspended in a medium consisting of 15 mM HEPES-KOH, pH 7.2, 2 mM MgCl2, 1 mM EDTA, and 0.3 M sorbitol. The total protein concentration was determined according to the method of CITATION. The uracil uptake into isolated cauliflower bud amyloplasts was studied using the silicone-oil filtration method (CITATION) with modifications (CITATION). This method enables the quantitative separation of isolated plastids from the incubation medium by centrifugation. To study uracil uptake, 100 μL of the isolated cauliflower bud amyloplasts (2 mg protein/mL) was added to the same volume of an uptake medium consisting of 15 mM HEPES-KOH, pH 7.2, 2 mM MgCl2, 1 mM EDTA, and 0.3 M sorbitol and [14C]-uracil (1012 Bq mol−1). Termination of the transport process was achieved by separation of the plastids from the incubation medium by centrifugation of the samples at 12,000g through the silicone oil (Microfuge E; Beckman; see details in CITATION). Radioactivity appearing in the supernatant was quantified by beta counting in a Packard Tricarb 2500 (Packard). The values were corrected for transport substrate trapped within the sorbitol-permeable space of the plastids. UPRT activity was determined using a standard assay mixture consisting of 50 mM HEPES-KOH, pH 7.2, 5 mM MgCl2, 10 mM NaN3, 0,5 mM phosphoribosyl-pyrophosphate, 0.025% BSA, and 0.5 mM [14C]-uracil (5 × 109 Bq mol−1), which was assayed at 30°C and 300 rpm. The reaction was initiated by the addition of 10 μL cauliflower bud amyloplast suspension (5 to 10 mg · mL−1 protein) to the assay mixture and terminated by the addition of 1 mL ice-cold 50 mM sodium acetate, pH 5.0, and 2 mM KH2PO4. Nucleotides were precipitated with 100 mM LaCl3, pH 5.0, and incubated for 30 min on ice. The mixture was then filtered through a membrane filter (0.45-μm pore size; Whatman). Then, the filter was transferred into a 5-mL scintillation vessel and filled with 4 mL scintillation cocktail (Roth). The radiolabeled generated UMP was measured by liquid scintillation counting in a Packard Tricarb 2500. For the construction of GFP fusion proteins, the entire cDNAs were amplified (with insertion of XbaI and XhoI cleavage sites and deletion of the native stop codon) by PCR using Pfu-DNA polymerase (Stratagene) with primers listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. The obtained PCR products were subcloned into an EcoRV-linearized pBluescript vector (Stratagene), cleaved using XbaI and XhoI, respectively, and fused translationally with the GFP coding region of the vector pGFP2 (CITATION), leading to the final GFP constructs under the control of a 35S promoter. To analyze an N-terminal truncated PLUTO-GFP fusion protein with a missing target peptide, the PLUTO cDNA was amplified by PCR using Pfu-DNA polymerase (Stratagene) with primers PLUTO_short_pGFP2_fwd and PLUTO_pGFP2_rev (see Supplemental Table 1 online) and cloned as described above. Protoplasts isolated from Arabidopsis thaliana were transformed with column-purified plasmid DNA (CITATION). After 24 h of incubation at 22°C in the dark, protoplasts were analyzed and checked for the presence of green fluorescence with a Leica TCS SP5II microscope (488-nm excitation and 505- to 540-nm detection of emission through a ×63 1.2 water immersion objective). Chlorophyll autofluorescence was detected with 488-nm excitation and a 649- to 770-nm emission wavelength. For colocalization studies of DHODH with mitochondria, the mitotracker dye Orange CMTMRos 7510 (Invitrogen) was used. Protoplasts were incubated for 10 min with mitotracker (2 μM), and unincorporated dye was subsequently washed off. Mitotracker fluorescence was detected at 488-nm excitation with 580- to 620-nm emission wavelength. Transient expression studies of PLUTO in onion (Allium cepa) epidermal peels were achieved by biolistic transformation (CITATION). Labeling of cell wall, plasma membrane, and internal membranes by the fluorescent dye FM4-64 (T13320; Invitrogen) was achieved by incubating onion epidermal peels for 10 min in FM4-64 (2 μM) and washing off unincorporated dye. FM4-64 fluorescence was detected at 488 nm excitation with 613- to 704-nm emission wavelength. The obtained data were analyzed with Leica confocal software. For heterologous expression of PLUTO in E. coli, PLUTO was amplified with Pfu-DNA polymerase using the construct pBSK:PLUTO as a template and the primers PLUTO_pTACMAT2_fwd with an XhoI restriction site and PLUTO_pTACMAT2_rev with a KpnI restriction site (see Supplemental Table 1 online). For the generation of the N-terminal truncated PLUTO expression construct, primer PLUTO_pTACMAT2k_fwd was used (see Supplemental Table 1 online). The obtained PCR products for PLUTO were cleaved and cloned into the XhoI-KpnI restriction site of the bacterial expression vector pTAC-MAT-Tag-2 (Sigma-Aldrich). For uptake experiments, these constructs were transformed in E. coli cells (JD23420; National Institute of Genetics, Shizuoka, Japan). Cells transformed with the PLUTO expression plasmids were inoculated with an overnight culture and grown at 37°C in YT medium containing ampicillin and kanamycin. An OD600 value of 0.5 was required for the initiation of PLUTO expression by addition of isopropyl β-D-1-thiogalactopyranosid (final concentration of 0.02%). Cells were grown for 1.5 h after induction, and 50 mL was collected by centrifugation for 5 min at 4500g at 4°C. The sediments were resuspended to an OD600 value of 5 using potassium phosphate buffer (50 mM, pH 7.0) and stored on ice until use. IPTG-induced E. coli cells and noninduced control cells (100 μL) harboring the PLUTO expression plasmids were added to the same volume of potassium phosphate buffer (50 mM, pH 7.0) containing [14C]-uracil, -guanine, or -adenine (1012 Bq mol−1). To test the effect of NaCl, LiCl (as a control), and the uncoupler carbonylcyanide CCCP, these substances were previously added in the indicated concentrations to the incubation medium of the bacterial cells. The uptake of nucleobases (20 μM, if not indicated otherwise) was performed at 37°C and 200 rpm in a reaction vessel incubator and terminated by vacuum filtration of the cells through a membrane filter (0.45-μm pore size; Whatman) moistened with potassium phosphate buffer (50 mM, pH 7.0). Cells were washed to remove unimported nucleobases (three times with 1 mL potassium phosphate buffer, 50 mM, pH 7.0). The filter was transferred into a 5-mL scintillation vessel and filled with 4 mL of scintillation cocktail (Roth). Radioactivity in the samples was quantified in a Packard Tricarb 2500 scintillation counter (Packard). To check for periplasmic cleavage of uridine after incubation with PLUTO-expressing E. coli cells, supernatants and pelleted bacterial cells were subjected to thin layer chromatography as described by CITATION. Quantitative RT-PCR was performed as described (CITATION). Total RNA was prepared from Arabidopsis plants using the RNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen). To remove any contaminating DNA, the samples were treated with DNase (RNase-free DNase kit; Qiagen). Quantitative PCR was performed using a MyIQ-Cycler (Bio-Rad) and IQ SYBR Green Supermix (Bio-Rad) according to the manufacturer’s instructions with the following cycler conditions: 3 min at 95°C, 40 cycles of 15 s at 95°C, 25 s at 58°C, and 40 s at 72°C followed by 1 min at 95°C. Gene-specific primers used are listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. The gene EF1α (At1g07930), encoding elongation factor 1α, was used for quantitative normalization (CITATION). Multiple alignments of protein sequences were performed with the program ClustalW (CITATION). Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: PLUTO (At5g03555; AED90625); FUR4 (P05316), uracil transporter of Saccharomyces cerevisiae; FUI1 (P38196), uridine transporter of S. cerevisiae; HYUP (Q9F467), a transport protein of Arthrobacter aurescens; PUCI (P94575), allantoin transporter of Bacillus subtilis; DAL4 (Q04895), allantoin transporter of S. cerevisiae; and MHP1 (2JLN_A), transport protein of Microbacterium liquefaciens. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Thin Layer Chromatography of Reaction Products after Incubation of Uridine with PLUTO-Expressing E. coli Cells. Supplemental Figure 2. Transient Expression of PLUTO-GFP in Allium cepa (Onion) Epidermal Cells. Supplemental Table 1. Primers Used in This Study.
