!~ABS~! The endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation (ERAD) is a highly conserved mechanism to remove misfolded membrane/secretory proteins from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). While many of the individual components of the ERAD machinery are well characterized in yeast and mammals, our knowledge of a plant ERAD process is rather limited. Here, we report a functional study of an Arabidopsis homolog (AtOS9) of an ER luminal lectin Yos9 (OS-9 in mammals) that recognizes a unique asparagine-linked glycan on misfolded proteins. We discovered that AtOS9 is an ER-localized glycoprotein that is co-expressed with many known/predicted ER chaperones. A T-DNA insertional atos9-t mutation blocks the degradation of a structurally imperfect yet biochemically competent brassinosteroid (BR) receptor bri1-9, causing its increased accumulation in the ER and its consequent leakage to the cell surface responsible for restoring the BR sensitivity and suppressing the dwarfism of the bri1-9 mutant. In addition, we identified a missense mutation in AtOS9 in a recently discovered ERAD mutant ems-mutagenized bri1 suppressor 6 ( ebs6-1 ). Moreover, we showed that atos9-t also inhibits the ERAD of bri1-5, another ER-retained BR receptor, and a misfolded EFR, a BRI1-like receptor for the bacterial translation elongation factor EF-Tu. Furthermore, we found that AtOS9 interacted biochemically and genetically with EBS5, an Arabidopsis homolog of the yeast Hrd3/mammalian Sel1L known to collaborate with Yos9/OS-9 to select ERAD clients. Taken together, our results demonstrated a functional role of AtOS9 in a plant ERAD process that degrades misfolded receptor-like kinases.
!~RES~! Using Yos9 and the human OS-9 as query, BLAST searches against the entire Arabidopsis genome identified a potential Yos9/OS-9 homologous gene, At5g35080 , which consists of eight exons and seven introns and encodes a polypeptide (named as AtOS9) of 282 amino acid residues with a predicted hydrophobic signal sequence at its N-terminus ( [sec1] ). AtOS9 is significantly smaller than its counterparts in yeast and mammals due to its lacking of the large C-terminal extensions of Yos9/OS-9 but is predicted to contain the MRH domain (from residue 110 to 243, [sec1] ), which is known to be crucial for the ERAD lectin function in yeast and mammals ( [bib24] ). The predicted MRH domain shares 29 and 36% identity with those of Yos9 and OS-9 and contains the eight amino acid residues that are directly involved in sugar binding ( [bib50] ) ( [fig1] ). Several previous genome-wide gene expression analyses showed that At5G35080 was up-regulated by ER-stresses ( [bib40] ; [bib29] ) and was co-expressed with many Arabidopsis genes encoding known or putative ER chaperones including CNXs/CRTs and protein disulfide isomerases (ATTED-II; http://atted.jp/ ; [sec1] ). Consistently with these gene expression studies, our immunoblot analysis revealed that a short-term treatment of Arabidopsis seedlings with tunicamycin (TM), an N-glycan biosynthesis inhibitor that causes severe ER-stresses ( [bib13] ), significantly increased the AtOS9 abundance, whereas a prolonged TM treatment led to detection of a fast-moving AtOS9 band on protein gel ( [fig1] ). The molecular weight difference between the fast- and slow-moving AtOS9 bands is ∼ 6 kD, which is consistent with its three predicted N-glycan sites (Asn 94 , Asn 169 , and Asn 190 ; see [sec1] ). Unlike the yeast Yos9, AtOS9 lacks the His-Asp-Glu-Leu (HDEL) ER retrieval sequence, but our confocal analysis of an AtOS9 fusion protein tagged at its C-terminus with green fluorescent protein (AtOS9-GFP), which was transiently expressed in tobacco leaves, indicated that AtOS9 is an ER-localized protein because its fluorescent pattern overlapped with the fluorescent signal of a widely used ER marker protein, a HDEL-tagged red fluorescent protein (RFP-HDEL) ( [fig1] ). The ER localization of AtOS9 was further confirmed by a simple biochemical assay using the endoglycosylase H (Endo H) that cleaves high-mannose (H)-type N-glycans of ER-localized glycoproteins but cannot remove Golgi-processed complex (C)-type N-glycans ( [bib47] ). As shown in [fig1] , the N-glycans of AtOS9 can be efficiently cleaved by Endo H, converting the slow-moving AtOS9 band to a fast-moving band that exhibits the same electrophoretic mobility as the non-glycosylated AtOS9 band of the TM-treated seedlings. To investigate the physiological functions of AtOS9, we identified a T-DNA insertional mutant ( SALK_029413 , named hereinafter as atos9-t ) from the Ecker SIGNAL T-DNA express database ( [bib2] ), which carries a T-DNA insertion in the middle of the predicted sixth exon ( [fig2] ). An immunoblot analysis with an affinity-purified anti-AtOS9 antibody, which easily detected AtOS9 in seedlings of both wild-type and bri1-9 , failed to detect its presence in the T-DNA insertional mutant ( [fig2] ), suggesting that atos9-t is likely a null mutant. Although the atos9-t mutant is indistinguishable from the wild-type control when grown under standard laboratory conditions ( [fig2] ), it was hypersensitive to TM ( [fig2] ), implying a role in coping with ER-stresses that often lead to overaccumulation of misfolded proteins in the ER. To directly test a role of AtOS9 in the Arabidopsis ERAD system, we crossed the atos9-t mutation into the bri1-9 mutant, whose dwarf phenotype was previously shown to be caused by ER retention and ERAD of the mutant BR receptor bri1-9 ( [bib28] ; [bib22] ; [bib27] ). If AtOS9 was a component of the Arabidopsis ERAD machinery that degrades the mutant BR receptor, we would expect that the atos9-t mutation should block the ERAD of bri1-9 and significantly increase the bri1-9 abundance. Indeed, as shown in [fig3] , the bri1-9 protein abundance is significantly higher in atos9-t bri1-9 than in bri1-9 . To eliminate the possibility that the elevated bri1-9 level in atos9-t bri1-9 is caused by increased biosynthesis of the mutant BR receptor, we performed a cycloheximide (CHX, a widely used protein biosynthesis inhibitor) chase experiment. We treated 2-week-old seedlings of both bri1-9 and atos9-t bri1-9 mutants with 180 μM CHX and analyzed the bri1-9 abundance by immunoblot with an anti-BRI1 antibody ( [bib42] ). As shown in [fig3] , the bri1-9 protein is relatively unstable, with a half-life of ∼6 h. By contrast, a significant amount of the mutant BR receptor remained in the atos9-t bri1-9 double mutant 24 h after the CHX treatment. We concluded that the increased bri1-9 abundance in the atos9-t bri1-9 mutant is likely caused by reduced degradation rather than by increased biosynthesis, supporting a functional role of AtOS9 in the ERAD of the mutant BR receptor. The atos9-t mutation also nicely suppressed the dwarf phenotype of the BR receptor mutant. Compared to bri1-9 , the atos9-t bri1-9 double mutant has a much larger rosette with longer petioles at the seedling stage, longer hypocotyls in the dark, and taller inflorescence stems when grown in soil ( [fig3] ). We suspected that this is likely caused by leakage of a small amount of bri1-9 protein from the ER as a result of saturating the bri1-9 retention system by overaccumulated mutant BR receptor in the folding compartment. If this were true, we would expect that the atos9-t mutation should at least partially restore BR sensitivity to the BR-insensitive dwarf mutant. As shown in [fig3] , increasing concentrations of brassinolide (BL, the most active BR) had little effect on the root elongation of the bri1-9 seedlings, but inhibited the root growth of the wild-type as well as the atos9-t bri1-9 mutant (albeit to a lesser degree). The restored BR sensitivity can also be detected biochemically. A 1-h treatment of 2-week-old seedlings with 1 μM BL had little effect on the phosphorylation status of BES1 ( [bib57] ; [bib58] ), a very robust biochemical marker of active BR signaling ( [bib42] ), but led to rapid dephosphorylation of BES1 in both the wild-type and the atos9-t bri1-9 mutant ( [fig3] ). Additional support for our ‘leakage’ theory came from an immunoblot experiment with total protein extracts treated with Endo H. If the restored BR sensitivity was caused by a small amount of leaked mutant receptor from the ER, we should be able to detect their presence by the Endo H assay as their N-glycans are no longer the H-type and are therefore resistant to the Endo H-catalyzed deglycosylation. Indeed, a small but significant amount of bri1-9 carrying the Endo-H-resistant C-type N-glycan was detected in the atos9-t bri1-9 mutant ( [fig3] ). Consistently, overexpression of EBS2, a land plant-specific CRT that functions as a rate-limiting factor for the ER retention of bri1-9 ( [bib27] ), nullified the suppressive effect of the atos9-t mutation on the bri1-9 mutant, as the gEBS2 atos9-t bri1-9 transgenic mutants are morphologically similar to the bri1-9 single mutant ( [sec1] ). An immunoblot assay showed that EBS2 overexpression had little effect on the bri1-9 abundance but significantly reduced the amount of bri1-9 proteins carrying the Endo H-resistant C-type N-glycan ( [sec1] ). The involvement of AtOS9 in the ERAD of bri1-9 was further confirmed by two additional experiments. The first was a complementation assay to ensure that the mutation for suppressing the bri1-9 dwarfism is indeed the atos9-t mutation instead of other potential mutations in the T-DNA line. We introduced a genomic AtOS9–GFP transgene, which carries the native promoter, all seven introns, exons 1–7, the amino acid-coding segment of the eighth exon with its last codon fused to the open reading frame of a GFP gene, and the 3'-terminator of the pea ( Pisum sativum) rbsc E9 gene, into the atos9-t bri1-9 mutant. As shown in [fig4] , the introduction of the gAtOS9–GFP transgene led to production of the AtOS9–GFP fusion protein (similar to or higher than the AtOS9 level in bri1-9 ) and restored the bri1-9 -like dwarfism to the atos9-t bri1-9 double mutant. Consistently with the observed phenotypic rescue, immunoblot analysis revealed that the bri1-9 abundance was significantly reduced to that of the bri1-9 mutant in the transgenic gAtOS9–GFP atos9-t bri1-9 lines ( [fig4] ). The second support for an essential role of AtOS9 in the ERAD of bri1-9 came from our mapping and sequence analysis of the ebs6-1 mutant that was previously identified by our secondary screen for Arabidopsis ERAD mutants ( [bib22] ). PCR-based genetic mapping with genomic DNAs of ∼100 F 2 seedlings derived from a mapping cross of the ebs6-1 bri1-9 mutant in a Columbia ecotype (Col-0) with a bri1-9 mutant in the Wassilewskija-2 ( Ws-2 ) ecotype ( [bib45] ) located the EBS6 locus in a genomic region that contains AtOS9 gene. Subsequent sequence analysis revealed a G-to-A single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the AtOS9 gene, which changes an absolutely conserved glycine residue (Gly 191 ) to glutamic acid (Glu) ( [sec1] ). This detected SNP was subsequently converted to a derived cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence (dCAPS) marker ( [bib43] ) that was used to confirm a tight genetic linkage between the G–A mutation and the ebs6-1 bri1-9 phenotype in several F 2 mapping populations. Interestingly, despite the fact that the mutated Gly 191 residue is absolutely conserved among Yos9, mammalian OS-9s, and several predicted plant OS9s, the ebs6-1 mutation is a rather weak suppressor of the bri1-9 mutant, as the ebs6-1 bri1-9 mutant is only slightly larger and has a less compact rosette with a slightly taller stature compared to the bri1-9 mutant ( [fig4] ). Immunoblot analysis showed that the bri1-9 abundance and the amount of the Endo H-resistant bri1-9 are lower in ebs6-1 bri1-9 compared to atos9-t bri1-9 ( [fig4] ). These results suggested that Gly 191 is not essential for the biochemical function of AtOS9 but might affect its structure, as the AtOS9 abundance is significantly reduced in the ebs6-1 bri1-9 mutant ( [sec1] ). To determine whether AtOS9 is a general ERAD component rather than a specific component involved only in the ERAD of bri1-9, we crossed the atos9-t mutation into another weak bri1 mutant, bri1-5 , whose BR-insensitive dwarf phenotype is also caused by ER retention and subsequent ERAD of the mutant BR receptor bri1-5 that carries a Cys 69 –Tyr mutation ( [bib23] ). As shown in [fig5] , the atos9-t mutation significantly increased the bri1-5 abundance and caused accumulation of a detectable amount of bri1-5 carrying the Endo H-resistant C-type N-glycan indicative of ER escape. Consistently, the atos9-t mutation suppresses multiple growth defects of the bri1-5 mutant. Compared with the bri1-5 mutant, the rosette o f atos9-t bri1-5 mutant was much larger and its dark-grown hypocotyl and mature inflorescent stem are much taller ( [fig5] ). Several recent studies have shown that the correct folding of EFR, a BRI1-like LRR-RLK that functions as a cell-surface receptor for the bacterial translation elongation factor EF-Tu to elicit a plant immunity response ( [bib59] ), requires the UGGT-mediated CNX/CRT folding cycle ( [bib36] ; [bib39] ; [bib44] ). Loss-of-function mutations in UGGT or CRT3 result in misfolding of EFR and its subsequent ER retention and eventual degradation by an ERAD process. To investigate whether AtOS9 is also involved in degrading a misfolded EFR, we crossed the at os9-t mutation into a T-DNA insertional uggt mutant, ebs1-6 ( [bib28] ), and performed an immunoblot experiment using an anti-EFR antibody. Consistent with several earlier studies ( [bib36] ; [bib39] ; [bib44] ), no EFR protein was detected in ebs1-6 bri1-9 , but the introduction of the atos9-t mutation elevated the EFR protein abundance to the same level as that of the bri1-9 or the atos9-t bri1-9 mutant ( [fig5] ), thus supporting a general role of AtOS9 in the Arabidopsis ERAD process. It should be interesting to note that, unlike the two mutant BR receptors, the misfolded EFR protein is not significantly accumulated in the atos9-t ebs1-6 mutant (likely due to its lower biosynthesis rate compared to BRI1) and thus unlikely saturates its ER retention system to allow a small fraction of EFR protein to escape the ER. Consistent with this interpretation, the atos9-t ebs1-6 bri1-9 mutant remains insensitive to elf18, a biologically active epitope derived from the bacterial EF-Tu ( [bib32] ), as seedlings of both ebs1-6 bri1-9 and atos9-t ebs1-6 bri1-9 mutants grew quite well on medium containing 100 nM elf18 that inhibits the growth of the atos9-t bri1-9 seedlings ( [sec1] ). To investigate the role of the MRH domain of AtOS9 in mediating the ERAD of bri1-9, we generated a p35S:AtOS9 transgene driven by the strong and constitutively active 35S promoter, mutated the resulting transgene by changing Tyr 132 , Gln 142 , and Glu 221 into Ala, Glu, and Asn, respectively (see [sec1] for the positions of mutated residues), and transformed the wild-type and mutant p35S:AtOS9 transgenes individually into the atos9-t bri1-9 mutant. All three conserved residues were previously shown to be crucial for the efficient ERAD of a well-studied ERAD client protein carboxpeptidase Y (CPY*, where * indicates an ER-retained mutant of the vacuolar enzyme) in yeast ( [bib53] ). As shown in [fig6] , both Gln 142 –Glu and Glu 221 –Asn mutations destroyed the ability of the p35S:AtOS9 transgene to rescue the atos9-t mutation, which is consistent with a recent structural study showing direct involvement of the two conserved residues in binding an α1,6 Man-exposed N-glycan ( [bib50] ). Surprisingly, the Tyr 132 –Ala mutation had no detectable effect on the AtOS9 function ( [fig6] ), whereas the exact same mutation completely destroyed the biochemical function of Yos9 in yeast cells ( [bib53] ). We thus concluded that the MRH domain is crucial for the biochemical function of AtOS9 in the Arabidopsis ERAD mechanism. It is well known that Yos9/OS-9 interacts directly with Hrd3/Sel1L to bring a terminally misfolded glycoprotein onto an ER membrane-anchored E3 ligase Hrd1, with the former recognizing a unique N-glycan signal while the latter detects a structural alteration ( [bib12] ; [bib16] ). The Arabidopsis genome has two Hrd3/Sel1L homologous genes, but only one (known as EBS5 or Sel1A ) is functionally involved in the ERAD of the two mutant BR receptors while the other is a non-functional pseudogene ( [bib38] ; [bib52] ). To test whether AtOS9 directly interacts with EBS5, we performed an in vitro pull-down assay using E. coli -expressed fusion proteins of the luminal domain of EBS5 tagged at its N-terminus with maltose binding protein (MBP–EBS5) and the full-length AtOS9 tagged at its N-terminus with glutathione S -transferase (GST–AtOS9) or just the GST itself. As shown in [fig7] , MBP–EBS5, immobilized on the amylose resin, was able to pull down only the GST–AtOS9 fusion protein, but not the GST tag itself, suggesting the two ERAD client recognition factors are capable of direct physical interaction. Our results are consistent with a recent study that demonstrated co-immunoprecipitation of AtOS9 and EBS5 (also known as Sel1A; [bib37] ) when the two proteins were transiently expressed in tobacco leaves ( [bib26] ). A potential AtOS9–EBS5 biochemical interaction was supported by an immunoblot study that revealed reduced AtOS9 abundance in an ebs5 mutant ( [fig7] ) but detected normal EBS5 level in the atos9-t mutant ( [sec1] ). Recent studies in yeast showed that Yos9 joins the ER membrane-embedded E3 ligase Hrd1 complex via its physical binding to Hrd3 (the yeast homolog of the Arabidopsis EBS5) ( [bib12] ; [bib16] ). We suspected that the stability of AtOS9 is reduced in the absence of the membrane-anchored linker protein EBS5 but should not be altered in the absence of the Hrd1 E3 ligase itself. Consistent with our prediction, a CHX decay assay demonstrated that the reduced AtOS9 level in the ebs5-3 mutant was indeed caused by increased degradation rather than decreased biosynthesis of AtOS9 ( [fig7] ) but that simultaneous elimination of two Arabidopsis Hrd1 homologs had little effect on the stability of AtOS9 ( [sec1] ). A requirement of EBS5 for the stability of AtOS9 is consistent with an earlier yeast study showing that Hrd3 is required for the stability of an HDEL-deleted form of Yos9 that depends on Hrd3 binding for its ER localization ( [bib16] ). The AtOS9–EBS5 interaction was further supported by our genetic studies. We reasoned that, if AtOS9 and EBS5 are physically and mechanistically linked in the same ERAD pathway, simultaneous elimination of both genes should exhibit no additive effect on suppressing the bri1-9 mutation compared to either single mutation. Indeed, as shown in [fig7] , the atos9-t ebs5-1 bri1-9 triple mutant is morphologically indistinguishable from the atos9-t bri1-9 or ebs5-1 bri1-9 double mutant. Consistently, overexpression of EBS5 was not able to suppress the atos9-t mutation while overexpression of AtOS9 failed to compensate for the EBS5 deficiency ( [sec1] ). These genetic results indicated that the efficient ERAD of bri1-9 requires both AtOS9 and EBS5.
!~MM~! All Arabidopsis mutants and transgenic lines used in this study are in the Col-0 ecotype, except bri1-5 (Ws-2) and bri1-9 (Ws-2) for genetic analyses and mapping. The T-DNA insertional mutant atos9-t ( SALK_029413 ) was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center at Ohio State University and crossed with bri1-9 or bri1 -5 mutant, while the ebs6-1 mutant was isolated in a previous genetic screen for suppressors of the bri1-9 mutant ( [bib22] ). Methods for seed sterilization and conditions for plant growth were described previously ( [bib35] ). The root-growth inhibition assay on BR-containing medium was performed as previously described ( [bib9] ). The ebs6-1 bri1-9 (ecotype Col-0) was crossed with a bri1-9 (ecotype Ws-2; [bib45] ), and the resulting F1 plants were self-fertilized to generate several F2 mapping populations. Genomic DNAs from segregating F2 seedlings exhibiting the ebs6-1 bri1-9 -like morphology was extracted as previously described ( [bib34] ) and used for PCR-based molecular mapping using known simple sequence-length polymorphism markers (see [sec1] ). A 3.5-kb genomic fragment of At5g35080 lacking the predicted stop codon and its 3'-untranscribed/untranslated region was amplified from the genomic DNA of wild-type Arabidopsis plants and fused to a DNA fragment amplified from a previously described pBRI1:BRI1–GFP plasmid ( [bib15] ) that contains a synthetic gene for the green fluorescent protein (GFP) and the 3'-terminator of the pea ( Pisum sativum) rbsc E9 gene (see [sec1] for primers used for DNA amplification). They were subsequently cloned into the pPZP222 binary plasmid ( [bib18] ) to create pPZP222-gAtOS9–GFP . The full-length cDNA of AtOS9 was amplified by reverse transcription-PCR and subsequently cloned into the pENTR/D-TOPO vector (Invitrogen). The resulting pENTR-cAtOS9 plasmid was then mobilized using the Gateway LR Clonase (Invitrogen) into a gateway destination pMDC83 vector ( [bib11] ) following the manufacturer’s suggested protocol to create a p35S:AtOS9 plasmid. Similar approaches were used to create p35S:Yos9 and p35S:HsOS-9 plasmid DNAs. Site-directed mutagenesis with the QuikChange XL site-directed mutagenesis kit (Stratagene) was performed on the p35S:AtOS9 plasmid to generate p35S:AtOS9(Tyr 132 -Glu), p35S:AtOS9(Gln 142 -Glu) , and 35S:AtOS9(Glu 221 -Asn) mutant plasmids. The construction of a genomic gEBS2 transgene and a p35S:EBS5 transgene was previously described ( [bib27] ; [bib52] ). Each created plasmid was sequenced to ensure no error within the PCR-amplified DNA fragment or at a cloning junction. These plasmids were individually transformed into the Agrobacterium GV3101 strain, and the resulting Agrobacterial strains were subsequently used to transform the atos9-t bri1-9 mutant by the vacuum-infiltration method ( [bib4] ). The pPZP222–AtOS9:GFP, pSITE03–ER–RFP (encoding a red fluorescent protein (RFP) tagged at its C-terminus with the HDEL ER retrieval motif; [bib7] )), and p35S:p19 (encoding the p19 protein of tomato bushy stunt virus for suppressing gene silencing; [bib55] ) plasmids were co-transformed into leaves of 3-week-old tobacco ( Nicotiana benthamiana ) plants via an Agrobacterium -mediated infiltration method ( [bib55] ). The localization patterns of AtOS9–GFP and the ER-localized RFP–HDEL in the co-infiltrated tobacco leaves were examined by using a Leica confocal laser-scanning microscope (TCS SP5 DM6000B) with an HCX PL APO CS 63X 1.30 glycerin lens and LAS AF software (Leica Microsystems). The GFP or RFP signal was excited by using the 488 or 543-nm laser light, respectively. A 600-bp cDNA fragment encoding the N-terminal 200 amino acids of AtOS9 was cloned into pGEX–KG ( [bib17] ) and subsequently transformed into BL21 competent cells (Novagen). The GST fusion protein was induced and purified according to the manufacturer’s recommended protocols. The purified GST–AtOS9 protein was sent to Pacific Immunology for custom antibody production, and a resulting antiserum was affinity-purified using the GST–AtOS9 fusion protein covalently immobilized on the Aminolink Plus coupling resin (Thermo Scientific) by the manufacturer’s suggested procedures. Two or 4-week-old Arabidopsis seedlings treated with or without CHX (Sigma), BL (Chemiclones, Inc., Canada), or TM (T7765, Sigma) were grounded in liquid N 2 , dissolved in 2×SDS buffer (100 mM Tris-HCl, pH 6.8, 4% ( w/v ) SDS; 0.2% ( w/v ) bromophenol blue, 20% ( v/v ) glycerol, and 200 mM β-mercaptoethanol), and boiled for 10 min. After 10-min centrifugation, supernatants were used directly for immunoblot analysis or incubated with or without 1000 U of Endo Hf in 1×G5 buffer (New England Biolabs) for 1 h at 37°C, and the treated proteins were separated by 7 or 10% SDS–PAGE and analyzed by coomassie blue staining or by immunoblot with antibody raised against BRI1 ( [bib42] ), BES1 ( [bib42] ), EBS5 ( [bib52] ), EFR, or AtOS9. The entire open reading frame of AtOS9 was obtained by RT–PCR amplification from total RNAs isolated from wild-type Arabidopsis plants and cloned into the bacterial expression vector pGEX–KG ( [bib17] ). The induction and purification of the GST-tagged full-length AtOS9 protein were carried out as described above for a truncated AtOS9 fusion protein used for raising the anti-AtOS9 antibody, while the induction and purification of an MBP–EBS5 fusion protein were performed as previously described ( [bib52] ). To perform the pull-down assay, purified soluble GST and GST–AtOS9 protein were incubated with equal amounts of MBP–EBS5 still bound to the amylose resin (New England Biolabs) for 2 h at 4°C. After washing for four times (5 min each) in PBS (10 mM phosphate buffer, 7.4 pH, 137 mM NaCl, 2.7 mM KCl) containing 1.0% ( v/v ) Triton X-100, the proteins still remained on the resin were dissolved in 50 μl 2×SDS sample buffer, separated by 10% SDS–PAGE, and analyzed by immunoblot using an anti-GST antiserum.
