!~ABS~! Transcripts of plant organelle genes are modified by cytidine-to-uridine (C-to-U) RNA editing, often changing the encoded amino acid predicted from the DNA sequence. Members of the PLS subclass of the pentatricopeptide repeat (PPR) motif-containing family are site-specific recognition factors for either chloroplast or mitochondrial C targets of editing. However, other than PPR proteins and the cis-elements on the organelle transcripts, no other components of the editing machinery in either organelle have previously been identified. The Arabidopsis chloroplast PPR protein Required for AccD RNA Editing 1 (RARE1) specifies editing of a C in the accD transcript. RARE1 was detected in a complex of >200 kDa. We immunoprecipitated epitope-tagged RARE1, and tandem MS/MS analysis identified a protein of unknown function lacking PPR motifs; we named it RNA-editing factor interacting protein 1 (RIP1). Yeast two-hybrid analysis confirmed RIP1 interaction with RARE1, and RIP1-GFP fusions were found in both chloroplasts and mitochondria. Editing assays for all 34 known Arabidopsis chloroplast targets in a rip1 mutant revealed altered efficiency of 14 editing events. In mitochondria, 266 editing events were found to have reduced efficiency, with major loss of editing at 108 C targets. Virus-induced gene silencing of RIP1 confirmed the altered editing efficiency. Transient introduction of a WT RIP1 allele into rip1 improved the defective RNA editing. The presence of RIP1 in a protein complex along with chloroplast editing factor RARE1 indicates that RIP1 is an important component of the RNA editing apparatus that acts on many chloroplast and mitochondrial C targets.
!~RES~! Our previous work reported the identification of RARE1, a plastid editing factor that controls the editing of accD-794 (CITATION). We determined that RARE1 is present in a protein complex by performing size exclusion column chromatography on chloroplast stroma (SI Appendix, Fig. S1). To identify members of this complex, we produced transgenic plants that express RARE1 protein carrying a 3× FLAG tag (RARE1-3×F) (CITATION) (SI Appendix, Fig. S2). Leaf protein extract from transgenic plants was incubated with α-FLAG agarose to isolate the RARE1 complex (SI Appendix, Fig. S3). The MS data indicated that the protein encoded by At3g15000 was the top candidate RARE1-interacting protein present in the immunoprepitate, because it had the largest number of matches of MS/MS spectra other than RARE1 (SI Appendix, Table S1). The gene encodes a member of the differentiation and greening (DAG) family; mutants in members of this gene family exhibit chloroplast biogenesis defects (CITATION, CITATION). Yeast two-hybrid analysis confirmed the interaction between RARE1 and the protein encoded by At3g15000, which was, therefore, named RIP1 (SI Appendix, Fig. S4). Serial deletions of both RARE1 and RIP1 established the portions responsible for the interaction on the N termini of the proteins (SI Appendix, Fig. S5). Two mutant lines with insertions in the RIP1 locus (FIG-REF) were obtained from the INRA FLAGdb T-DNA collection (CITATION). Homozygous mutants could not be recovered from the FLAG_607H09 line; possibly, the T-DNA insertion in FLAG_607H09 might be lethal because of the complete loss of expression. Homozygous FLAG_150D11 mutants, which have a T-DNA inserted 140 bp upstream of the RIP1 coding region, exhibit a dwarf phenotype (FIG-REF). We measured the level of RIP1 transcript in the homozygous FLAG_150D11 mutant line and homozygous WT siblings by quantitative RT-PCR. The expression of the RIP1 ORF was found to be increased four- to sixfold in the T-DNA mutant compared with the WT (FIG-REF). Nevertheless, the proximity of the T-DNA insertion to the ORF may result in impaired production of RIP1 protein; abnormal phenotypes have previously been reported in T-DNA insertional mutants that exhibited increased rather than reduced target gene transcript abundance (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Because RIP1 coimmunoprecipitates and interacts in vivo with RARE1, a chloroplast editing factor, we surveyed the editing extent of all known Arabidopsis chloroplast editing sites in segregating progeny for the FLAG_150D11 T-DNA insertion. A poisoned primer extension (PPE) assay is shown in FIG-REF for accD-794 and the three sites showing the most pronounced editing extent variation in the mutant relative to WT. PetL-5 and ndhD-2 exhibit a significant reduction of editing extent in the mutant (60% and 55%, respectively), whereas rps12-(i1)58, a site in the first intron of rps12, shows a significant increase of editing extent in the mutant (FIG-REF). PPE data for accD-794, the site under the control of RARE1, indicate that editing in the homozygous mutant is reduced relative to WT as observed for petL-5 and ndhD-2 but to a lesser extent (83% in mutant compared with 98% in WT or a 15% reduction). The mutation is clearly recessive, because the editing extent of the heterozygous plant for these sites is similar to the homozygous wild plants (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] Of the 34 known chloroplast C targets of editing present in Arabidopsis, 14 C targets exhibited significant changes in RNA editing extent between the homozygous WT and the homozygous mutant plants (SI Appendix, Table S2); 11 of 14 sites exhibit a decrease in editing extent in the mutant, whereas an increase of editing extent in the mutant is observed for only 3 sites (SI Appendix, Table S2). The editing extent of the heterozygote was not significantly different from the homozygous WT at any of the chloroplast sites. RIP1 has been previously reported to be located in mitochondria according to characterizations of the Arabidopsis mitochondrial proteome (CITATION, CITATION). In addition, the dwarf phenotype of the FLAG_150D11 T-DNA insertional mutant could be indicative of mitochondrial dysfunction. Therefore, we determined the location of RIP1 by transiently expressing a construct encoding the full-length RIP1 attached to GFP under the control of a 35S promoter into Arabidopsis protoplasts (CITATION). Our observations indicate that RIP1 is dually targeted to chloroplasts and mitochondria (FIG-REF). Most of the Arabidopsis protoplasts showed RIP1 to be localized in mitochondria (FIG-REF). Occasionally, we observed RIP1 both in mitochondria and chloroplasts (FIG-REF). This observation is reminiscent of a recent report on PPR2263, a maize PPR-DYW that is dually targeted to mitochondria and chloroplasts with a preference for mitochondria (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To confirm the dual localization of RIP1 to both organelles, we repeated the previous experiment by transfecting Nicotiana benthamiana protoplasts. In contrast to Arabidopsis protoplasts, all of the transfected N. benthamiana protoplasts showed a dual localization of RIP1 to both mitochondria and chloroplasts (SI Appendix, Fig. S6). DAPI staining of the N. benthamiana protoplasts showed that some of the small punctate structures targeted by RIP1-GFP colocalize with nucleoids (SI Appendix, Fig. S6H). We conducted a bulk sequencing screen of the 33 mitochondrial protein-coding genes known to harbor editing sites by comparing the sequencing electrophoretograms of the RT-PCR products obtained from the homozygous T-DNA mutant with the homozygous WT line. A typical result is shown in FIG-REF, where the editing extent in the nad2 transcript is not uniformly affected by the RIP1 mutation along the transcript. The majority of the nad2 sites, 14 of 22 sites, do not show any reduction in editing extent in the mutant compared with the WT (Table 1). However, editing of nad2-90 is not detectable in the mutant, because only a C peak is observed at that position (FIG-REF). Between these two extremes are detected sites in which editing is reduced to less than one-half of WT, about one-half of WT, or more than one-half of WT as observed in nad2-1091, nad2-89, and nad2-530, respectively (FIG-REF). Effect of FLAG_150D11 insertion on RNA editing of mitochondrial C targets [[FIGURE]] Table 1 summarizes the results of the bulk sequencing screen by presenting the number of sites for each mitochondrial gene that falls into one of five categories described for nad2 transcript from no effect of the RIP1 mutation to an apparent absence of editing. Of the 33 mitochondrial genes surveyed, only atp6-1, which contains one reported editing site at position 475, does not show any dependence on a functional RIP1 for efficient editing. Overall, mutation in RIP1 affects the editing extent of a very high number of mitochondrial sites; 108 of 368 sites surveyed show a major loss of editing in the mutant (Table 1). A very similar number of sites (102 sites) do not show any variation in editing extent in the mutant. A complete list of all of the affected mitochondrial C targets of editing among the 368 sites assayed is shown in Dataset S1. Plant mitochondrial sites in the rip1 mutant analyzed can be divided into two categories: totally RIP1-dependent (108 of 368 sites or 29%) and totally RIP1-independent (102 of 368 sites or 28%). Although these categories are approximately equal in size in the entire population of genes analyzed, RIP1 seems to play a larger role in editing of transcripts for proteins of certain mitochondrial complexes than others. For example, transcripts of complex 1 genes exhibit 10% (15/153) C targets affected by the RIP1 mutation and 45% (82/153) unaffected. In contrast, the cytochrome c biogenesis complex exhibits 49% C targets (45/92) affected and only 5% (5/92) sites with editing extent that is unaffected (Table 1). The effect of RIP1 mutation on mitochondrial extent does not seem to be related to the location of the C target on the transcript, because there is no apparent pattern in the distribution of the RIP1-dependent and -independent sites along the transcript (FIG-REF). Editing events can be divided into two classes: nonsilent (when editing changes the encoded amino acid) or silent (when the amino acid is unchanged). Nonsilent sites are predominant in the population of sites surveyed (335 nonsilent sites or 91%) (Dataset S1). There are somewhat fewer nonsilent sites in the group of sites that are strongly affected in the rip1 mutant than there are in the entire population of surveyed sites [83% (90 nonsilent sites to 108 sites) vs. 91% respectively] (Dataset S1). We also examined a small selection of editing sites by the PPE assay, which is more precise and sensitive than the RT-PCR/bulk sequencing method that we used to survey the 368 sites in the rip1 mutant (CITATION). We chose some mitochondrial editing sites that exhibited either no or complete dependence on functional RIP1 (FIG-REF). Although no editing of the C targets in cob-325 and nad6-161 was detected by the less-sensitive bulk sequencing method, we found that both exhibit a residual editing extent detectable by PPE (13% and 21%, respectively) (FIG-REF). The negative effect of the rip1 mutation on cob-325 and nad6-161 is greater than its effect on any chloroplast C targets (SI Appendix, Table S2). When the editing extent of these two sites was assayed by PPE in homozygotes, heterozygotes, and WT, we found no difference between heterozygotes and WT, indicating the mutation is completely recessive with respect to editing efficiency at these two C editing targets as well as other mitochondrial sites (SI Appendix, Fig. S7). We examined the level of a selection of mitochondrial transcripts in the mutant to investigate the possibility of a link between the steady-state level of mitochondrial transcripts and the editing extent of their targeted C sites. Among the 10 mitochondrial transcripts assayed by quantitative RT-PCR, 5 transcripts showed a significant increase (approximately four- to sixfold) in their abundance compared with the WT, 3 transcripts showed a moderate increase (1.3- to 1.5-fold) in the mutant, and 2 transcripts were in similar amounts in both the mutant and the WT (SI Appendix, Fig. S8). Although ccmB, the transcript harboring the highest number of sites with editing extents that are severely affected by rip1 mutation (Table 1), shows the highest increase of transcript abundance in the mutant (SI Appendix, Fig. S8A), there is no obvious correlation between the steady-state level of transcript and the incidence of rip1 mutation on the editing extent. For example, nad9, which exhibits a similar increase of its transcript abundance in the mutant as ccmB (SI Appendix, Fig. S8A), does not harbor any site with editing extent that is greatly impaired in the mutant (Table 1). Conversely, ccmFn-2, with 4 of 10 targeted sites showing an apparent total loss of editing in rip1 (Table 1), experiences only a slight increase of its transcript abundance in the mutant relative to the WT (SI Appendix, Fig. S8C). Eight of the sites on nad7 transcript show a reduced editing extent in rip1, whereas nad7 abundance is similar to the WT (Table 1 and SI Appendix, Fig. S8D). A model can be proposed in which a dosage effect is transcript-specific, and therefore, a slight increase of ccmB transcript abundance is sufficient to have an effect on the editing extent of some of its sites. In this model, some of the recognition transfactors directing the specific editing site of targeted C sites are in limiting amounts, and therefore, even a slight increase of the transcript abundance might deplete these recognition factors, resulting in an apparent reduction in editing efficiency. However, this possibility is refuted by a close examination of the nad4, ccmFn-2, and cox3 transcript abundances, which show a very similar and slight increase in the rip1 mutant (SI Appendix, Fig. S8C). These three transcripts each possess a site, cox3-422, nad4-124, and ccb203 (ccmFn-2)-344, recognized by the same recognition factor, MEF11 (CITATION). In the rip1mutant, the editing extent of ccmFn-2-344 is severely reduced, whereas the editing extent of cox3-422 is only slightly reduced; nad4-124 does not show any detectable difference in editing extent between rip1 and the WT (Dataset S1). In conclusion, our mutant analysis data clearly indicate independence of the editing extent of the sites carried by a mitochondrial transcript and its abundance. Unlike the mitochondrial transcripts, the three plastid transcripts assayed by quantitative RT-PCR all show a reduction of steady-state level in rip1 compared with WT (SI Appendix, Fig. S8E). Similar to editing of mitochondrial transcripts, there is no clear connection between the editing extent of plastid sites and the amount of transcript that carries these sites. The ndhD and petL sites show a decrease of editing extent in rip1, whereas rpoC1-488 editing extent is significantly increased in the mutant (SI Appendix, Table S2). We investigated organelle editing in two mutants that mimic the growth phenotype of the rip1 mutant and are compromised in some aspects of organelle RNA metabolism or organelle biogenesis. Tissue was available from a mutant in the chloroplast polynucleotide phosphorylase, which has a major role in maturing mRNA and rRNA 3′ ends but also participates in RNA degradation through exonucleolytic digestion and polyadenylation (CITATION). We obtained a second mutant that was affected in the gene encoding a chloroplast envelope membrane protein containing a putative LrgB domain, which has been reported recently to play an important role in A. thaliana chloroplast development (CITATION). Examination of the editing extent in two null mutants of the genes encoding these plastid proteins shows no difference from the WT in the editing extent of nad6-161 and cob-325, two mitochondrial sites that show a drastic reduction of editing extent in rip1 (SI Appendix, Fig. S9). Among the five plastid sites with editing extent that showed the largest variation in the rip1 mutant, we observed only an increase of editing extent in the null pnp and lrgB mutants for certain sites. NdhD-2, with an editing extent in the rip1 mutant that is about one-half the amount observed in WT (SI Appendix, Table S2), shows an increase of editing extent in both mutants (110% and 40% in pnp and lrgB mutants, respectively) (SI Appendix, Fig. S9). AccD-794 and petL-5 exhibit an increase of editing extent only in the pnp mutant, whereas rpoC1-488 editing extent is markedly increased only in the lrgB mutant. Rps12-158 editing extent is invariant in both the pnp and lrgB plants. Because additional mutant lines with a second independent T-DNA insertion in RIP1 were not available, we silenced RIP1 by virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) to confirm that the effect on RNA editing was specifically attributable to a defective RIP1 gene. Two types of control plants were used in this experiment: uninoculated plants and plants inoculated with a silencing vector containing only GFP. Quantitative RT-PCR showed that the level of RIP1 transcript in RIP1-silenced plants was reduced to 38% of the level detected in uninoculated plants (SI Appendix, Fig. S10). Unexpectedly, the level of RIP1 transcript in GFP-silenced plants was increased to about two times the level in uninoculated plants. Both RIP1- and GFP-silenced plants show a significant reduction of GFP transcript compared with the uninoculated plants (87% and 95%, respectively) (SI Appendix, Fig. S10). PPE assays on transcripts from uninoculated and silenced plants showed that silencing of RIP1 results in an average 18% decrease in petL-5 editing extent and a 24% increase in rps12-(i1)-58 editing extent compared with the uninoculated plants (P < 0.01 and P < 0.05, respectively) (FIG-REF). A decrease in petL-5 editing and an increase in rps12-(i1)-58 editing was likewise observed in the T-DNA mutant (SI Appendix, Table S2), although as expected, the effect of rip1 knockdown in silenced plants is less than in the mutant. No significant difference in editing extent was detected between the GFP-silenced and uninoculated plants (FIG-REF). The editing extent for rps12-(i1)-58 in the uninoculated WT siblings was 16% (FIG-REF), whereas the uninoculated GFP plants exhibited a 34% editing efficiency (FIG-REF). This discrepancy results from the fact that the WT siblings of the mutant are in Wassilewskija background, whereas our Arabidopsis GFP line used for VIGS is in Columbia background. PPE assay on mitochondrial transcripts from uninoculated and silenced plants also confirms the variation in mitochondrial editing extent observed in the T-DNA mutant. cob-325 and nad6-161 exhibit a very significant reduction of editing extent in RIP1-silenced plants compared with uninoculated control plants [35% (P < 10−4) and 34% (P < 10−4), respectively] (FIG-REF). As expected, cob-118 and nad6-26, two C targets with editing efficiencies that are not affected in the rip1 mutant, do not show any decrease of editing extent in RIP1-silenced plants (FIG-REF). Not all C targets with editing that was greatly impaired in the rip1 mutant exhibited detectable reduction in the silenced plants. For example, no effect on nad6-88 and nad6-89 editing extent was detected in knockdown plants, although they were strongly affected in the mutant (SI Appendix, Fig. S11). There may be sufficient RIP1 present in the silenced plants to allow editing of some sites to proceed normally. [[FIGURE]] We used a transient transformation system in which an Agrobacterium strain is vacuum infiltrated directly into young Arabidopsis seedlings (CITATION). rip1 homozygous mutant seedlings were infiltrated with an Agrobacterium strain carrying a binary vector containing a 35S-RIP1 construct. Three days postinfiltration, PPE analysis showed that editing extent in the mitochondrial nad6-161 and cob-325 and plastid accD-794 sites was significantly increased in transfected vs. not transfected seedlings [80%, 86% (P < 0.01), and 17% (P < 0.02), respectively] (FIG-REF). This experiment provides additional evidence for the necessity of functional RIP1 for efficient mitochondrial and plastid RNA editing. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! All genotyping was done by PCR with BioMix Red (Bioline). For amplification of RARE1 in transgenic plants, primer Rare1_+1933F and the 3xFLAG-StrepIIR primer were used. For genotyping of the FLAG_150D11 line, the WT allele and T-DNA alleles were amplified with primer pairs At3g15000_-442F with At3g15000_+99R or At3g15000_-442F with FLAG_LB4, respectively (SI Appendix, Table S3). Likewise, for the FLAG_607H09 line, the primer pairs were At3g15000_+856F with At3g15000_+1334R and FLAG_Tag3 with At3g15000_+1334R. Both lines were obtained from the INRA FLAGdb T-DNA collection (CITATION). VIGS of At3g15000 using a GFP cosilencing marker as in refs. CITATION and CITATION was performed with Complete Arabidopsis Transcriptome MicroArray (CATMA) primers (CITATION) At3g15000_VF and At3g15000_VR (SI Appendix, Table S3). Tissue was collected 18 d postinoculation. All 34 known Arabidopsis chloroplast RNA editing C targets (CITATION, CITATION) were assayed as in ref. CITATION. Mitochondrial RNA editing sites were assayed by RT-PCR bulk sequencing using primers described in refs. CITATION and CITATION. PPE analysis on mitochondrial sites cob-118, cob-325, nad6-26, and nad6-161 was conducted as in ref. CITATION with primers cob-118, cob325, nad6-26, and nad6-161 (SI Appendix, Table S3). RIP1 ORF was transferred from the gateway entry clone G67651 (ABRC; Ohio State University) into the binary vector pH7RWG2.0 (CITATION) by recombination using LR Clonase II (Invitrogen) After sequence verification, the plasmid was transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101. Sterile seeds from RIP1-FLAG_150D11-T-DNA heterozygous plant were germinated on MS plates. After 2 wk, the homozygous mutant plants, which were distinguishable from the other progeny because of their dwarf phenotype, were collected onto new MS plates and subjected to Agrobacterium infiltration according to the protocol in ref. CITATION. DNA and RNA were collected 3 d postinfiltration. DNA genotyping confirmed the visual assignment of the mutant seedlings based on the dwarf phenotype. The RIP1 ORF minus the stop codon was amplified from the clone G67651 with primers At3g15000_+1F and At3g15000_+1185R (SI Appendix, Table S3) and cloned into pCR8/GW/TOPO (Invitrogen). After sequence verification, the insert was transferred into the pEarleyGate 103 vector (CITATION) by recombination using LR Clonase II (Invitrogen), creating an RIP1-GFP fusion driven by the 35S promoter. Protoplasts from Arabidopsis Col-0 accession or N. benthamiana were transfected with the plasmid using the protocol in ref. CITATION. Protoplasts were checked for fluorescence under the confocal microscope 16 h after incubation with the plasmid. Protoplasts were incubated with MitoTracker Orange CM-H2TMRos (Invitrogen) at a final concentration of 500 nM for 30 min, centrifuged, and resuspended in dye-free medium. Images were acquired using a Leica SP2 confocal microscope. For chloroplast nucleoid staining, N. benthamiana protoplasts were incubated with 3 μg/mL DAPI (Sigma) for 5 min before visualization using a Zeiss 710 confocal microscope. Quantitative RT-PCR was performed as described in ref. CITATION. All of the primers used for quantitative RT-PCR are given in SI Appendix, Table S3. The results of the quantitative RT-PCR analysis were normalized using the gene At2g28390, which has been shown to be a superior reference gene for transcript normalization in Arabidopsis (CITATION).
