!~ABS~! Strigolactones (SLs) are carotenoid-derived plant hormones that regulate shoot branching, secondary growth, root development, and responses to soil phosphate. In Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), SL biosynthesis requires the sequential action of two carotenoid cleavage dioxygenases, MORE AXILLARY GROWTH3 (MAX3) and MAX4, followed by a cytochrome P450, MAX1. In rice (Oryza sativa), the plastid-localized protein DWARF27 (OsD27) is also necessary for SL biosynthesis, but the equivalent gene in Arabidopsis has not been identified. Here, we use phylogenetic analysis of D27-like sequences from photosynthetic organisms to identify AtD27, the likely Arabidopsis ortholog of OsD27. Using reverse genetics, we show that AtD27 is required for the inhibition of secondary bud outgrowth and that exogenous application of the synthetic SL GR24 can rescue the increased branching phenotype of an Atd27 mutant. Furthermore, we use grafting to demonstrate that AtD27 operates on a nonmobile precursor upstream of MAX1 in the SL biosynthesis pathway. Consistent with the plastid localization of OsD27, we also show that AtD27 possesses a functional plastid transit peptide. We demonstrate that AtD27 transcripts are subject to both local feedback and auxin-dependent signals, albeit to a lesser extent than MAX3 and MAX4, suggesting that early steps in SL biosynthesis are coregulated at the transcriptional level. By identifying an additional component of the canonical SL biosynthesis pathway in Arabidopsis, we provide a new tool to investigate the regulation of shoot branching and other SL-dependent developmental processes.
!~RES~! The Arabidopsis genome encodes three proteins with superficial similarity to rice OsD27. To identify the likely ortholog of OsD27, we performed a phylogenetic analysis of D27-like proteins from land plants, green algae, and cyanobacteria. The eukaryotic sequences broadly grouped into three distinct clades, two of which (clades 1 and 2) only contained representatives from land plants, while the third (clade 3) also contained members from chlorophyte algae and diatoms (Fig. 1). With three cyanobacterial proteins serving as an outgroup, the phylogeny suggests that there was a single D27-like gene copy in the common ancestor of the chlorophyte algae and the land plants. Subsequently, the first of two gene duplication events took place in the lineage leading to the land plants, giving rise to clades 1 and 2. The long branches within clade 3, indicative of long periods of sequence divergence, further suggest that this group of proteins arose prior to, and is functionally distinct from, clades 1 and 2. Intriguingly, several gene duplication events have occurred independently within the individual algal lineages, leading to extensive paralogy within clade 3. [[FIGURE]] The clades specific to land plants, clades 1 and 2, both had strong Bayesian posterior support, and the two groups together formed a superclade that was also strongly supported. Clades 1 and 2 each contained a representative sequence from the moss Physcomitrella patens, indicating that each group derived from a second gene duplication event that occurred during the early evolution of the land plants. Clade 1 contained OsD27, its ortholog in Medicago truncatula (CITATION), and an Arabidopsis protein encoded by At1g03055. Notably, two other Arabidopsis proteins with similarity to OsD27, encoded by At1g64680 and At4g01995, unambiguously were assigned to clades 2 and 3, respectively. Thus, we concluded that At1g03055 is the likely Arabidopsis ortholog of OsD27. Nevertheless, the presence of other D27-like proteins in land plant genomes is indicative of potential genetic redundancy. The AtD27 transcript comprises seven exons, and the exon length and structure are highly conserved with the MtD27 and OsD27 mRNAs, further supporting orthology between the three genes (Fig. 1B). The AtD27 protein is predicted to be 264 amino acids long and shares 48% pairwise identity with OsD27 (excluding the predicted plastid transit peptides; Supplemental Fig. S1). At present, the D27 protein family does not possess any annotated InterPro domains and belongs to a “domain of unknown function” family (Pfam: DUF4033) of 91 eukaryotic and eubacterial sequences, which are widely represented in Figure 1A. However, the rice D27 protein binds a nonheme iron cofactor, which presumably is required for redox-based activity as a β-carotene isomerase (CITATION; CITATION). A search of available germplasm collections for mutations in AtD27 revealed three possible T-DNA insertion alleles among the GABI-Kat collection (CITATION). Of these, two were confirmed to carry a T-DNA insertion within the At1g03055 locus. A T-DNA copy resides within the fifth exon in GK-134E08 and in the seventh exon in GK-774D06 (Fig. 2A). Reverse transcription (RT)-PCR analysis showed that both alleles result in the accumulation of incomplete AtD27 transcripts, consistent with the predicted T-DNA location (Fig. 2B). However, only one of these two alleles resulted in a clear mutant phenotype: in plants homozygous for the GK-134E08 insertion, adult plants exhibited a substantial increase in axillary rosette branches relative to wild-type controls, while GK-774D06 homozygotes had a normal branching pattern (Fig. 2, C and D). On the basis of its mutant phenotype, we named the GK-134E08 allele d27-1 (hereafter referred to as d27 for simplicity). The T-DNA insertion in d27 disrupts the predicted protein at Leu-189, comparable to the nonfunctional protein produced in Osd27, which is disrupted after Gly-187 (Supplemental Fig. S1; CITATION). These data suggest that AtD27 is necessary for the regulation of axillary bud outgrowth and that the extreme 3′ end of the transcript is nonessential for the function of the resulting protein. [[FIGURE]] To confirm that the d27 lesion was responsible for the increased branching phenotype, we complemented the mutant with a cDNA encoding the predicted D27 protein, expressed under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. We isolated four independent transgenic lines, in which the transgene segregated in a ratio consistent with a single Mendelian locus and was expressed approximately 40-fold higher than in the wild type at the transcriptional level (Supplemental Fig. S2). In all four lines, the number of axillary branches and overall plant height were not significantly different from wild-type levels, fully complementing the d27 phenotype (Fig. 3, A and B). We performed feeding experiments with GR24, a synthetic SL, to evaluate whether the increased branching phenotype of d27 likely results from impaired SL biosynthesis, as is the case in rice (CITATION). When grown in culture vessels on medium containing GR24, d27 plants produced significantly fewer branches than those grown on control medium (Fig. 3C). The SL-deficient mutant max3-11 exhibited a similar response, although its branching phenotype was more severe. In contrast, the SL-insensitive mutant Atd14 showed no response at all to GR24, as demonstrated previously (CITATION). A similar response to GR24 was seen with d27 and max3-9 plants grown hydroponically (Supplemental Fig. S3). Together, these data demonstrate that D27 is essential for the regulation of axillary branching and that branching inhibition in d27 is limited by SL content rather than SL response. [[FIGURE]] Grafting wild-type rootstocks to max1, max3, or max4 scions restores a wild-type branching pattern to the mutant shoots (CITATION). This outcome results from the graft transmission of root-synthesized SL to the shoot presumably via the transpiration stream (CITATION; CITATION). Conversely, grafting with these lines shows that SL biosynthesis also occurs in the shoot, as wild-type shoots have wild-type branching phenotypes even where grafted with mutant rootstocks. To verify that d27 shoots are similarly responsive to a graft-transmissible signal, we generated reciprocal grafts between wild-type ecotype Columbia (Col-0) and d27 and found that wild-type rootstocks could suppress the increased branching phenotype of d27 shoots (Fig. 4). A mutant rootstock had no effect on the phenotype of a wild-type shoot, showing that D27 expression in the shoot is sufficient to inhibit branching (Fig. 4). [[FIGURE]] It has been shown previously that MAX1 operates downstream of MAX3 and MAX4 in SL biosynthesis, because a max1 rootstock can restore a wild-type branching pattern to max3 and max4 shoots, but not vice versa (CITATION). These findings have also demonstrated that a compound intermediate between MAX3/MAX4 and MAX1 is subject to long-distance transport from the root to the shoot. Likewise, the substrates of MAX3 and MAX4 are nonmobile (or are unable to access MAX3/MAX4 in the plastid of a remote cell), because a max3 rootstock fails to complement a max4 shoot, and vice versa (CITATION). To investigate the relative position of D27 within the MAX pathway, we generated reciprocal grafts between d27 and either max1 or max4. A max1 rootstock was able to fully restore the branching phenotype of a d27 shoot, demonstrating that MAX1 operates downstream of D27 (Fig. 4). Interestingly, as for max4 discussed below, the branching of max1 scions grafted to d27 rootstocks was reduced to that of d27 self-grafts (Fig. 4). This suggests that d27 may generate a small amount of SL, or a substance that can partly compensate for SL deficiency, and is consistent with the relatively mild branching phenotype of d27 compared with max1, max3, and max4 (Figs. 3C and 4; Supplemental Fig. S3). In contrast to graft combinations involving d27 with the wild type or max1, reciprocal grafts between d27 and max4 failed to restore branching to wild-type levels in either mutant shoot (Fig. 4; CITATION; CITATION). This situation is similar to grafts between the carotenoid cleavage dioxygenase mutants of Arabidopsis (max3 and max4) and pea (Pisum sativum; rms1 and rms5), which, unlike grafts with wild-type partners, are unable to show branching inhibition (CITATION; CITATION). As discussed below, this is consistent with D27 acting in the plastid on a plastid-localized, nonmobile substrate. Unlike grafts between max3 and max4, max4 rootstocks caused a slight enhancement of branching in d27 shoots and d27 rootstocks caused a slight reduction of branching in max4 shoots. As d27 has an intermediate branching phenotype compared with max4 (Fig. 4), d27 presumably has elevated graft-transmissible hormone content compared with max4. In summary, these grafting data are consistent with D27 functioning upstream of MAX1 in the biosynthesis of SL. Given the apparent nonmobility of the D27 precursor and the biochemical function of D27, it is likely that the Arabidopsis D27 protein is spatially restricted to the plastid. To determine the likely cellular location of D27, we generated a chimeric construct encoding the full-length D27 protein fused to the N terminus of GFP. Following transient expression in onion (Allium cepa) epidermis, the GFP fluorescence fully overlapped with the red fluorescence from the coexpressed plastid-specific marker (Fig. 5, A–D). No GFP fluorescence was detected beyond the plastid, suggesting that the full-length D27 protein was strictly localized to this organelle. This is in accord with plastid localization of OsD27 (CITATION). The D27 protein encodes a predicted N-terminal plastid transit peptide of 47 amino acids (Supplemental Fig. S1). To test whether this presequence is sufficient to direct plastid localization, we generated a translational fusion between the first 50 amino acids of D27 and GFP and subjected onion epidermal cells to transient transformation as before. Again, the fluorescence signals from both the GFP and the plastid-specific marker fully overlapped (Fig. 5, E–H), indicating that D27 possesses a bona fide plastid transit peptide. Together, these data suggest that D27 functions in the plastid, consistent with the demonstrated cellular location of OsD27 in rice and its anticipated activity on a nonmobile precursor. [[FIGURE]] D27, MAX3, and MAX4 transcript abundance from public microarray data revealed potential differential expression intensities throughout the plant, with a relative deficit of D27 in root tissue (Supplemental Fig. S4). Quantitative RT-PCR analysis of Col-0 tissues confirmed that D27 transcripts were more abundant in shoot tissue than in roots of 3-week-old wild-type plants, while MAX3 and MAX4 transcripts accumulated most strongly in the hypocotyl and roots (Fig. 6A). In contrast, MAX1 transcript levels varied little over the tissues examined. Consistent with their role in SL response, we found that MAX2 and AtD14 transcripts were evenly expressed across the shoot, hypocotyl, and root (Fig. 6A). Differential spatial expression of D27 compared with MAX3 and MAX4 then led us to investigate whether D27 was under similar feedback control as MAX3 and MAX4. [[FIGURE]] In all max mutants, levels of MAX3 and MAX4 transcripts in the hypocotyl are 6- to 10-fold higher than in the wild type, indicative of feedback up-regulation (CITATION). This feedback process is dependent on a combination of auxin and nonauxin signals. SL-related auxin responses require the AUXIN RESISTANT1 (AXR1) protein, as axr1 auxin response mutants have reduced MAX3 and MAX4 transcript levels, at least in cauline internodes and hypocotyls of 5-week-old plants (CITATION). In hypocotyls of 3-week-old prebolting max2 and max4 mutants, D27 transcripts were significantly up-regulated relative to the wild type (Fig. 6B). However, these changes were typically half the increase observed for MAX3 transcripts, which were over 10-fold and 5-fold up-regulated in a max2 and max4 background, respectively (Fig. 6B). Likewise, while MAX3 transcripts were 5-fold down-regulated in axr1 mutants, D27 transcripts were only moderately (albeit significantly) less abundant. Consequently, although the magnitude of expression changes for D27 are less than for MAX3, the response is similar and therefore may involve common regulatory components. Levels of MAX3 and MAX4 transcripts in the hypocotyl decrease in response to removal of the shoot tip (decapitation) by decreasing expression levels (CITATION). This presumably reduces SL levels in order to allow buds below the decapitation site to grow and compensate for the missing shoot tip. A proportion of the decrease in gene expression is due to auxin depletion in the hypocotyl after removal of the shoot tip (the shoot tip being the main source of auxin for the plant). We checked D27 gene expression in hypocotyls after various treatments known to modulate auxin content: auxin (indole-3-acetic acid [IAA]) addition; decapitation; decapitation followed by IAA addition; addition of the auxin transport inhibitor N-1-naphthylphthalamic acid (NPA); and combined addition of IAA and NPA. D27 expression showed similar trends to that of MAX3 and MAX4 across these treatments, although, as above, the magnitude of the response was less (Fig. 6C). Classical auxin-responsive genes, IAA1, IAA5, and PIN1, also responded in a similar manner in these samples, but with varied magnitudes (Supplemental Fig. S5). The only difference between trends among the treatments for the classical auxin response genes compared with the SL genes was that exogenous IAA added to NPA-treated plants fully restored and indeed overcompensated for the NPA, whereas the SL genes were not fully restored back to control levels in this IAA+NPA treatment. This raises the possibility of auxin and nonauxin effects of NPA regulation of MAX3, MAX4, and D27 gene expression. In pea, there is evidence that feedback regulation of MAX3 and MAX4 orthologs can occur over long distances in a graft-transmissible and localized manner (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). In Arabidopsis, a wild-type shoot can suppress the elevated MAX3 and MAX4 expression in a max2 rootstock (CITATION), indicative of a downwardly mobile feedback signal. Nevertheless, in Arabidopsis, the local effect of max2 in the rootstock is greater than that of the long-distance signaling from shoots. In similar experiments in pea, the effect of the scion appears greater than the local effect of the rootstock (CITATION; CITATION). In contrast to SL response mutants, grafts between the wild type and SL-deficient mutants in pea show a minor effect of the scion on gene expression in the rootstock, possibly due to the restoration of SL content by the wild-type graft partner. To investigate the scenario for d27, we analyzed gene expression in the hypocotyl and rootstock of plants reciprocally grafted with the wild type (Fig. 6D). In d27 self-grafts, MAX3 and MAX4 transcripts were up-regulated, consistent with feedback. (D27 transcripts were also highly overexpressed, but this may be primarily a result of misregulation of a nonfunctional transcript.) As with wild-type rootstocks of pea grafted to mutants in SL biosynthesis (CITATION), expression in the root was not significantly affected by the genotype of the shoot in either reciprocal graft in Arabidopsis. As in pea, this may be because wild-type rootstocks can restore branching, and presumably the long-distance feedback signal, to normal levels in d27 shoots. Notably, in grafts involving d27, the three auxin-responsive transcripts did not exhibit a statistically significant difference from wild-type self-grafts, suggesting that auxin transport and/or signaling is not substantially affected in d27 mutants. This outcome may be due to the relatively moderate phenotype of d27.
!~MM~! The Atd27-1 mutant was isolated from the GABI-Kat collection (GK-134E08.01) and obtained from the European Arabidopsis Stock Centre (NASC; identifier N761233). The second T-DNA insertion allele located at the 3′ end of AtD27 was isolated from GK-774D06.06 (NASC identifier N762010). A third GABI-Kat line, GK-114A05, is annotated as carrying an insertion in the fifth intron of At1g03055, but we could not identify any individuals carrying a T-DNA at the expected location. T-DNA homozygotes were identified by PCR with the genomic primers MW277 (5′-TGGTCCCACCTTTGATCATT-3′) and MW278 (5′-TCTAATGCTTCACACCGTAGC-3′) and a T-DNA-specific primer, o8409 (5′-ATATTGACCATCATACTCATTGC-3′). Col-0, max1-1, max2-1, max3-11, max4-1, and axr1-3 were from our laboratory stocks; Wassilewskija-4 (Ws-4; used for the results shown in Fig. 6C) and max3-9 (N9567) were obtained from NASC (N5390). The Atd14-1 mutant was described previously (CITATION). Unless otherwise stated, Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) plants were grown under fluorescent lamps emitting 100 to 120 µmol photons s−1 m−2 (intensity at the rosette level) in a 6:1:1 mixture of peat, vermiculite, and perlite or in University of California mix with added 60% vermiculite. Plants from the Col-0 background were grown in a 16-h-light/8-h-dark photoperiod and a 22°C light/16°C dark temperature cycle, or in constant 22°C. Ws-4 was initially grown for 2 weeks in 14 h of light/10 h of dark and constant 18°C, in order to compensate for the extreme early flowering in Ws-4 and to match their flowering time with Col-0. Grafting of Arabidopsis seedlings was performed as described in CITATION and as described in CITATION. Treatment of plants with GR24 in Phytatrays was performed as described (CITATION). Treatment of plants grown in hydroponic medium has been described previously (CITATION). Prebolting Ws-4 plants were treated with a lanolin ring around the top of the hypocotyl containing 2.5% dimethyl sulfoxide and 2.5% ethanol (control) with 10 mm IAA and/or 10 mm NPA (an auxin transport inhibitor). Decapitation involved removing the apical meristem and some small leaves/flowers from the shoot apex of each plant. Hypocotyl tissue was harvested 4 h post treatment. Three replicates were used for each genotype, with approximately 20 plants used per replicate. RNA was isolated from 7-d-old whole seedlings using the Qiagen RNeasy procedure. cDNA was generated from 1 µg of total RNA using Invitrogen SuperScript III. The At1g03055.1 coding sequence was first amplified using primers MW350 5′-AAAAAAGCAGGCTATGAACACTAAGCTATCAC-3′ and MW351 5′-CAAGAAAGCTGGGTCTAATGCTTCACACCGTAGC-3′ (translation initiation codon and stop codon, respectively, in boldface) using a proofreading DNA polymerase (Phusion; New England Biolabs). Approximately 250 pg of the PCR product was then reamplified using Gateway attB adapter primers 5′-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCT-3′ and 5′-GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGT-3′ (overlapping regions with MW350 and MW351, respectively, are underlined). The resulting PCR product was cloned into pDONR207 via Gateway-based recombination, and positive clones were confirmed by sequencing. The full-length coding sequence was then transferred to pMDC32 (CITATION) via recombination, generating the final 35S:D27 binary vector. The d27-1 mutant was then transformed by the floral dip method. Transgenic seedlings were selected by growth in continuous light for 7 d on one-half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium containing 25 µg mL−1 hygromycin B. The full-length D27 coding sequence was reamplified from pDONR207-D27 using primers MW350 and MW353 (5′-CAAGAAAGCTGGGTTATGCTTCACACCGTAGC-3′), in which the native stop codon was deleted. The region of D27 encoding the plastid transit peptide was amplified using primers MW350 and MW352 (5′-CAAGAAAGCTGGGTTCTCTTTTGCAGCCTTGAG-3′). Both PCR products were then reamplified with the universal Gateway attB primers described above and cloned into pDONR207. Positive clones of each were then recombined with pMDC83 (CITATION) to generate clones expressing N-D27-mGFP6-C protein fusions. For colocalization, the full-length cDNA of the small subunit of Rubisco from pea (Pisum sativum) was fused to the N terminus of red fluorescent protein (RFP; CITATION). Plasmids (5 µg) were precipitated onto 1-µm gold particles and biolistically transformed into onion (Allium cepa) epidermis as described previously (CITATION). Images were obtained with an Olympus BX61 epifluorescence microscope equipped with GFP (U-MGFPHQ) and RFP (U-MRFPHQ) filters and manipulated with Olympus cell^R software. Total RNA was extracted using the RNeasy (Qiagen) or NucleoSpin RNA Plant (Macherey-Nagel) procedure. For small tissue samples (Fig. 6D), a modified TRIzol (Invitrogen) procedure was used with subsequent RNeasy cleanup. Contaminating DNA was removed with Turbo DNA-free (Ambion) or DNase (Macherey-Nagel or Qiagen), and RNA was quantified with a NanoDrop 1000 spectrophotometer. In the case of Figure 2B, Figure 6A, and Supplemental Figure S2C, cDNA was generated from 0.5 µg of total RNA in a 10-µL reaction using the iScript cDNA Synthesis kit (Bio-Rad). Quantitative RT-PCR was performed on a Roche LC480 using LightCycler 480 SYBR Green Master Mix (Roche) in 5-µL reactions. Cycle conditions were as follows: 95°C for 10 min; then 45 cycles of 95°C for 20 s, 60°C for 20 s, and 72°C for 20 s; followed by melt-curve analysis. Crossing point values were calculated under high confidence. For each biological replicate, two technical replicates of each real-time PCR were examined, and the mean crossing point value was used to calculate expression relative to an internal reference gene using the formula (Egene)-Cp_gene/(Eref)-Cp_ref, where E is the primer efficiency and Cp represents the crossing point. Primer efficiencies were determined in separate runs using serial dilutions of pooled cDNA. Reference genes were selected from those identified by CITATION; for comparing several tissue types, we selected TIP41-LIKE (At4g34270), and for seedlings, we chose a clathrin adapter complex subunit, CACS (At5g46630). For all other figures, cDNA was produced using SuperScript III (Invitrogen) with 1,700 ng (Fig. 6B), 170 ng (Fig. 6C; Supplemental Fig. S4), and 60 ng (Fig. 6D) of total RNA (20-µL reaction). Quantitative RT-PCR was performed on the 7900 Real-Time PCR System (Applied Biosystems) using SensiMix SYBR (Bioline) in 10-µL reactions. Cycle conditions were as follows: 95°C for 10 min; then 45 cycles of 95°C for 15 s and 60°C for 1 min; followed by melt-curve analysis. Cycle threshold values were calculated at 0.2 normalized reporter fluorescence using SDS 2.3 (Applied Biosystems), and correlation coefficients and PCR efficiencies were calculated with LinRegPCR (CITATION). Average PCR efficiencies (E) excluded poorly correlated reactions. Expression was relative to ACTIN genes using the formula (Egene)−CT_gene/(Eref)−CT_ref, where CT represents the cycle threshold. Primers for the RT-PCR analysis of d27-1 mutant transcripts (Fig. 2B) are F1 (5′-TGGACAGAGCATTACCGACA-3′), R1 (5′-CTCTGTAACCTCAGTCTCCCTCAC-3′), R2 (5′-CTCCATGTAGATAGGCATTC-3′), R3 (5′-TCTAATGCTTCACACCGTAGC-3′), YLS8-F (5′-GGGATGAGACCTGTATGCAGATGGA-3′), and YLS8-R (5′-GCTCGTACATGGTGTTGAAGTCTGG-3′). Primer pairs for quantitative RT-PCR were designed using QuantPrime (http://quantprime.mpimp-golm.mpg.de/) or manually by eye, except for MAX4, IAA1 (CITATION), and ACTIN (CITATION). All quantitative RT-PCR primers are listed in Supplemental Table S1. Protein sequences with significant homology to D27 were identified with BLASTP searches of GenBank protein databases using the rice (Oryza sativa ssp. japonica) D27 amino acid sequence as a query (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov). Over 90 sequences were identified with a highly significant E-value score (E−10 or smaller). To reduce the complexity of the analysis, 62 sequences were selected on the basis of wide taxonomic coverage while also providing sufficient support for each clade. Sequences were further screened for duplication and truncation. Full-length sequences were then aligned using MAFFT (http://mafft.cbrc.jp/alignment/software) using the default settings. The alignment was conservatively trimmed using PFAAT (http://pfaat.sourceforge.net) to remove regions of poor homology, including putative N-terminal plastid transit peptides that show poor conservation. MrBayes version 3.1.2 (CITATION) was used to infer Bayesian trees (random start tree, four chains of temperature 0.2 in each of four independent runs, WAG substitution matrices (Whelan and CITATION), and four discrete categories of γ-distribution substitution rate). Computational analysis was performed using CIPRES Science Gateway version 3.1 (http://www.phylo.org/), and phylograms were generated using Dendroscope version 2.7.4 (http://www-ab.informatik.uni-tuebingen.de/software/dendroscope). For comparisons between multiple treatments and a control, one-way two-sided ANOVAs (Dunnett’s t test) were performed as described in the figure legends. The overdispersed data shown in Figure 3C were analyzed using the more appropriate nonparametric Mann-Whitney U tests. When transcript expression data spanned several orders of magnitude (Fig. 6A), data were log transformed prior to analysis to control for large differences in variance between groups. Statistical analysis was performed with SAS Enterprise Guide 4.3. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession number NM_202019. 1 (AtD27). Protein accession numbers are listed in Supplemental Table S2. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Alignment of selected D27 orthologs from angiosperms. Supplemental Figure S2. Characterization of 35S:D27 transgenic lines. Supplemental Figure S3. Axillary branching in d27-1 mutants is suppressed by GR24. Supplemental Figure S4. Meta-analysis of D27, MAX3, and MAX4 transcript abundance in Arabidopsis tissues. Supplemental Figure S5. Response of auxin-related transcripts to IAA, decapitation, and NPA treatments. Supplemental Table S1. Primers used for quantitative RT-PCR. Supplemental Table S2. List of protein sequences used in phylogeny reconstruction.
