!~ABS~! Chloroplast avoidance movements mediated by phototropin 2 (phot2) are one of most important physiological events in the response to high-fluence blue light (BL), which reduces damage to the photosynthetic machinery under excess light. Protein phosphatase 2A-2 (PP2A-2) is an isoform of the catalytic subunit of PP2A, which regulates a number of developmental processes. To investigate whether PP2A-2 was involved in high-fluence BL-induced chloroplast avoidance movements, we first analyzed chloroplast migration in the leaves of the pp2a-2 mutant in response to BL. The data showed that PP2A-2 might act as a positive regulator in phot2-mediated chloroplast avoidance movements, but not in phot1-mediated chloroplast accumulation movements. Then, the effect of okadaic acid (OA) and cantharidin (selective PP2A inhibitors) on high-fluence BL response was further investigated in Arabidopsis thaliana mesophyll cells. Within a certain concentration range, exogenously applied OA or cantharidin inhibited the high-fluence BL-induced chloroplast movements in a concentration-dependent manner. Actin depolymerizing factor (ADF)/cofilin phosphorylation assays demonstrated that PP2A-2 can activate/dephosphorylate ADF/cofilin, an actin-binding protein, in Arabidopsis mesophyll cells. Consistent with this observation, the experiments showed that OA could inhibit ADF1 binding to the actin and suppress the reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton after high-fluence BL irradiation. The adf1 and adf3 mutants also exhibited reduced high-fluence BL-induced chloroplast avoidance movements. In conclusion, we identified that PP2A-2 regulated the activation of ADF/cofilin, which, in turn, regulated actin cytoskeleton remodeling and was involved in phot2-mediated chloroplast avoidance movements.
!~RES~! The role of PP2A-2 in BL-induced chloroplast movements was investigated first. It was clear that, after treatment with high-fluence BL (50 µmol m−2 s−1, 60 min), almost all chloroplasts in dark-acclimated wild type (WT) Arabidopsis leaves moved to anticlinal walls, parallel to the incident light (Fig. 1A, B, E, F). Although chloroplasts also migrated to the anticlinal walls in the leaves of the pp2a-2 mutant in response to BL, the extent of chloroplast movement was far less than that in the WT (Fig. 1C, D, G, H). Quantitative analysis of the chloroplast population revealed that on exposure to BL for 30 min, approximately 70% of chloroplasts were located along the anticlinal walls in the WT (Fig. 1I), whereas only approximately 60% of chloroplasts were along the anticlinal walls in the pp2a-2 mutant (Fig. 1J). After extending the exposure time to 60 min, only 15% of chloroplasts were located along the periclinal walls in the WT (Fig. 1I), but approximately 35% of chloroplasts could still be observed along the periclinal walls in the pp2a-2 mutant (Fig. 1J).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Next, differences in BL-induced chloroplast movements between WT and pp2a-2 mutant Arabidopsis were further examined according to the changes in leaf red light (RL) transmittance. The results demonstrated that RL transmittance in both the WT and pp2a-2 mutant showed a rapid increase after 20 min of treatment with 100 µmol m−2 s−1 BL (Fig. 2A). Importantly, after irradiation for >10 min with 100 µmol m−2 s−1 BL, the RL transmittance in the WT was higher than in the pp2a-2 mutant (Fig. 2A). However, all F1 progenies of a cross between the pp2a-2 mutant (female parent) and WT Col-0 (pollen donor) showed similar chloroplast avoidance movements as the WT (Supplementary Fig. 6). With using knockout plants of other isoforms of PP2A catalytic subunits, we found that the pp2a-1 and pp2a-4 mutants showed the same chloroplast avoidance movement response as compared with the WT (Supplementary Fig. 2B). RT–PCR results showed that the expression levels of PP2A-1 and PP2A-4 were significant lower in leaves than those of PP2A-2, which is consistent with the data from the Arabidopsis eFP Browser, suggesting that the difference in the gene expression level might be the main reason for the involvement of PP2A-2 in chloroplast avoidance movement among highly similar PP2A catalytic subunits (Supplementary Fig. 1D). Further, we also investigated whether RCN1 (an A1 subunit of PP2A), which has been confirmed to play an important role in down-regulating photoactivated phot2 (CITATION), was involved in chloroplast movements induced by high-fluence BL. The results showed enhanced chloroplast avoidance movement in the rcn1 mutant, which corresponded with the previous observation that the phosphorylation level of phot2 was higher in the rcn1 mutant than in the WT (Supplementary Fig. 2B). The difference in the low-fluence BL-induced chloroplast accumulation movements between WT and pp2a-2 mutant Arabidopsis was also examined. Clearly, the WT and the pp2a-2 mutant showed a consistent decrease in RL transmittance in response to 0.3 µmol m−2 s−1 BL irradiation (Fig. 2B). However, upon exposure to 5 µmol m−2 s−1 BL, the short-term increase in RL transmittance disappeared in the pp2a-2 mutant and, moreover, the magnitude of the decrease was greater than in the WT (Fig. 2B). These data indicate that PP2A-2 might act as a positive regulator in phot2-mediated chloroplast avoidance movements (>16 µmol m−2 s−1), but is not involved in phot1-mediated chloroplast accumulation movements (<2 µmol m−2 s−1). Taking into account the fact that both phot2 and phot1 were involved in chloroplast movements in response to BL at 2–16 µmol m−2 s−1, the enhancement of chloroplast accumulation movements observed in the pp2a-2 mutant treated with BL of 5 µmol m−2 s−1 might be ascribed to the attenuation of chloroplast avoidance movements resulting from the absence of PP2A-2 (Fig. 2B).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To further investigate the role of PP2A-2 in chloroplast avoidance movements induced by high-fluence BL, we examined the change in the percentage RL transmittance of WT leaves in the presence of OA. The results showed that 0.01 µM OA greatly reduced the increase in the RL transmittance of leaves induced by high-fluence BL of 100 µmol m−2 s−1 and the inhibitory effects reached a maximum when OA was increased to 0.1 or 1 µM (Fig. 3A). It should be pointed out that OA did not affect the RL transmittance of leaves in the dark (Fig. 3A). A detailed analysis of the dose dependency was also conducted. It seemed that exogenously applied OA inhibited the high-fluence BL-induced chloroplast movements in a concentration-dependent manner within the concentration range of 10−3–10−1 µM (Fig. 3B). Further study showed that high concentrations of OA (≥0.1 µM) appeared to have toxic effects on normal cell function, because neither changes in the RL transmittance under low BL (Supplementary Fig. 3) nor full recovery after turning off BL and washout of OA could be found (Fig. 3A). Moreover, 1–100 µM cantharidin (another potent and selective PP2A inhibitor) showed a similar inhibitory effect on chloroplast movement in WT leaves (Fig. 4).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Further, we examined the chloroplast movements of the pp2a-2 mutant treated with OA under high-BL exposure. It was clear that regardless of the presence or absence of 0.01–0.05 µM OA, irradiation with 50 or 100 µmol m−2 s−1 BL for 1 h increased the RL transmittance through the pp2a-2 mutant leaves by about 0.7 or 1.2% compared with the dark-acclimated phase, respectively (Fig. 5). This consistency of increased RL transmittance between OA-treated and -untreated pp2a-2 mutant leaves implied that the effect of OA on chloroplast avoidance movements was due to the inhibition of PP2A-2. Taken together, these results indicated that the PP2A inhibitors displayed a similar effect on the RL transmittance as the pp2a-2 mutation.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The difference between the WT and the pp1 mutant in the chloroplast avoidance movement response induced by high-fluence BL was also examined. Clearly, in response to high-fluence BL, the time course of the increase in the percentage RL transmittance of leaves in the pp1 and topp3 mutants was in good accordance with that in the WT (Supplementary Fig. 2). By using the selective PP1 inhibitor tautomycin (CITATION), it was shown that exogenously applied 0.1 and 10 µM tautomycin did not affect the chloroplast movements induced by high-fluence BL (Supplementary Fig. 2B). These data suggested that PP1 was perhaps not involved in chloroplast avoidance movements induced by high-fluence BL and that the reduction of these movements by OA might be due to its inhibitory effects on PP2A-2. Phototropins were initially found as plasma membrane associated phosphorylated protein under blue light. However, the phosphorylation levels of phot2 were not significantly different in the pp1 and pp2a-2 mutants compared with WT Arabidopsis (Supplementary Fig. 4). Previous studies have demonstrated that organelles can move along essentially static actin via myosin motor protein or migrate depending upon actin nucleation and polymerization regulated by a couple of actin-binding proteins (CITATION, CITATION). Among these proteins, ADF/cofilin, a small phosphoinositide-sensitive actin-binding protein, has been confirmed to play a vital role in actin dynamics (CITATION, CITATION). Therefore, we investigated whether serine phosphatases were responsible for the activation of ADF/cofilin through dephosphorylation in protein phosphatase-regulated chloroplast movements. First, we detected the phosphorylation level of ADF/cofilin in Arabidopsis leaves acclimated in the dark for 18 h. Using OA to inhibit the serine phosphatases PP1 and PP2A, the results demonstrated that the dephosphorylation of ADF/cofilin could be significantly suppressed by OA (Fig. 6). Furthermore, experiments performed in protein phosphatase mutants showed that the phosphorylation level of ADF/cofilin was significantly higher in the pp2a-2 mutant than in the WT (Fig. 6A, B). However, there was no significant difference in the phosphorylation level of ADF/cofilin in the pp1 and rcn1 mutants compared with the WT. After high-fluence BL irradiation, the phosphorylation level of ADF/cofilin was increased and was in good accordance with that in the dark group, suggesting that ADF/cofilin activity might be modulated by BL signaling, and PP2A-2 dephosphorylated and activated ADF/cofilin constitutively (Fig. 6A, B).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Western blot analysis demonstrated that OA blocked the dephosphorylation of ADF/cofilin. We thus investigated further the configuration of actin filaments in WT leaf mesophyll cell changes in response to high-fluence BL in the presence of OA. Numerous studies have demonstrated that the actin-based cytoskeleton plays a major role in the positioning and movement of chloroplasts and other organelles (CITATION). It was shown that chloroplasts were surrounded by basket-like structures of actin filaments that were linked directly or indirectly to larger actin cables (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). As shown in Fig. 7, a typical set of F-actin structures formed a meshwork of actin cables around chloroplasts when WT Arabidopsis leaves were kept in the dark for a long time (Fig. 7A–C). The green fluorescent protein (GFP)-fABD2 fusion protein-labeled actin cytoskeleton in leaf cells revealed two types of actin filaments: one type of actin filament partially or completely encircled the chloroplasts, forming a basket-like structure, and the other formed a network of fine actin microfilaments, which derived from the bundles and extended randomly into the cytoplasm (Fig. 7A–C). The bar graphs show that approximately 85% of mesophyll cells have both basket-like structures and actin filament networks (Fig. 7M). After irradiation with high-intensity BL, the chloroplasts relocated their positions to the anticlinal sides of the cell. The configuration of actin filaments on the periclinal side changed, the network of fine actin microfilaments in 80% of mesophyll cells disappeared and the basket-like structure around the chloroplasts was revealed (Fig. 7D–F, M). In contrast, after treatment with OA, the network of fine actin microfilaments did not disappear and seemed to merge into a meshwork formed by a couple of thick actin cables in each cell in the presence of high-intensity BL irradiation. In addition, the basket-like structure encircling the chloroplasts disappeared (Fig. 7G–I, M). Therefore, it was suggested that OA might inhibit the actin cytoskeleton dynamics induced by high-intensity BL.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Having established that exogenous OA was involved in the phosphorylation level of ADF/cofilin and high-intensity BL-induced actin structure reorganization (Figs. 6, 7), we then examined whether high-intensity BL-induced chloroplast avoidance movements are weakened in the absence of ADF. In this study, the time course of the change in RL transmittance was measured in adf mutant leaves in response to BL. The results demonstrated that the RL transmittance through WT, adf2 and adf4 mutant leaves increased by approximately 1.8%, but there was less of an increase in RL transmittance (approximately 1.2%) in adf1 and adf3 mutant leaves after treatment with high-fluence BL (Fig. 8A). When the adf1 and adf3 mutants (female parent) were cross-pollinated with the parental WT Col-0 (pollen donor), all F1 progenies showed similar chloroplast avoidance movements as the WT (Supplementary Fig. 6). The change in the percentage RL transmittance in response to 0.3 µmol m−2 s−1 low BL was similar in the WT and adf mutants (Fig. 8B). Further study showed that the RL transmittances changes in OA-treated adf1 or adf3 mutant leaves were similar to OA-untreated group, suggesting that PP2A is involved in the regulation of ADF1 or ADF3 (Supplementary Fig. 5). These data indicated that ADF1 and ADF3 may be necessary for high-fluence BL-induced chloroplast avoidance movements. Since the phosphorylation level of ADF/cofilin was significantly higher in the pp2a-2 mutant than in the WT, it is suggested that PP2A-2 mediated chloroplast avoidance movements through regulating actin cytoskeleton remodeling by dephosphorylation/activation of ADF1 or ADF3.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In order to verify that PP2A-2 could regulate ADF1 cellular localization in response to high-fluence BL, the ADF1 coding sequence was fused to the GFP reporter gene and transiently expressed in Arabidopsis cells. The ADF1-GFP fusion protein predominantly localized to a network of thick and long cytoplasmic bundles in WT and pp2a-2 mutant mesophyll protoplasts (Fig. 9A). Interestingly, after high-fluence BL irradiation, the ADF1-GFP fusion protein was randomly distributed in the cytoplasm of pp2a-2 mutant mesophyll protoplasts instead of a network, which was inconsistent with the ADF1 cellular localization in WT cell in response to high-fluence BL (Fig. 9A). Further, following transient transfection of GFP-fABD2 Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts with the cyan fluorescent protein (CFP)-ADF1 construct, we found that the distribution of the CFP-ADF1 fusion protein was consistent with that of the GFP-fABD2 fusion protein-labeled actin cytoskeleton with or without high-fluence BL exposure. However, after treatment with OA, the CFP-ADF1 fusion protein was approximately localized randomly in the cytoplasm of mesophyll protoplasts, which was practically distributed inconsistently with actin cytoskeleton in the presence of high-intensity BL irradiation (Fig. 9B). Therefore, these results suggested that OA or reduced PP2A-2 activity might inhibit ADF1 binding to the actin cytoskeleton after high-intensity BL.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! OA (BioVision, Mountain View, CA, USA) was dissolved in DMSO to produce a 0.6 mM stock solution, which was aliquoted. [32P]orthophosphate was purchased from Beijing Fu-Rui Bio-Engineering Company (Beijing, China). Antibodies against phosphor-cofilin and cantharidin were purchased from Sigma–Aldrich, China (Shanghai, China). Unless stated otherwise, the remaining chemicals were of analytical grade from Chinese companies. Seeds of the Arabidopsis GFP-fABD2 line were kindly provided by Prof. M. Sheahan (University of Newcastle, Australia). The Arabidopsis mutants pp1 (At2g29400; SALK_057537), pp2a-2 (At1g10430; SALK_150673), adf1 (AT3G46010; GK-312C03.01), adf2 (AT3G46000; SALK_022613), adf3 (AT5G59880; SAIL_501_F01) and adf4 (AT5G59890; SALK_063457) were purchased from NASC (http://arabidopsis.info). The mutants are all in the Col-0 background. Seeds were sown in water-soaked Scott’s Plug or Metro Mix and incubated at 4°C in darkness for 3–4 d. Seedlings were grown in soil in a plant growth chamber (Conviron, model E7/2, Winnipeg, Canada) under a 12-h light/12-h dark cycle, a photon fluence rate of 100 µmol m−2 s−1 and a temperature of 22.5/21.5°C (light/dark). Microscopic observations were performed using a Zeiss LSM 510 laser confocal scanning microscope (LSM510/ConfoCor2, Carl-Zeiss, Jena, Germany) implemented on an inverted microscope (Axiovert 100). For excitation, the 458/488-nm line of an Ar-ion laser was used. CFP signals were visualized with excitation at 458 nm and emission at 470–500 nm using a band-pass filter. GFP signals were visualized with excitation at 488 nm and emission at 500–550 nm using a band-pass filter. Chloroplast autofluorescence (488-nm excitation) was visualized at 650 nm using a long-pass filter. To analyze the chloroplast movements in living mesophyll cells, fresh leaves were gently cut into 1-mm sections and then mounted under a coverslip on a microscope slide with loading buffer according to a modified procedure, as described previously (CITATION). Micrographs of cross sections from each treatment were captured using a × 40 oil-immersion objective lens on the Zeiss LSM510 and analyzed with Zeiss ‘LSM Image Browser’ Rel 3.2 image processing software (Zeiss, Germany). For calculating the numbers of chloroplasts located along anticlinal and periclinal walls, a thin temporary section was prepared from the leaves after treatment with BL. Then, leaf sections were mounted under a coverslip on a microscope slide with loading buffer. Optical images of temporary sections with a 0.5 -µm pinhole were taken at × 20 magnification by using the same confocal system described above, and then the numbers of chloroplasts along the anticlinal and periclinal walls were calculated. In plants, the change in leaf RL transmittance has been proven to be a reliable indicator of chloroplast movements by our group and others (CITATION, CITATION). RL transmittances were measured using the ultraviolet-visible spectrometer (Lambda 35, Perkin-Elmer, UK), according to the previously described protocol (CITATION). Leaves from 3- to 4-week-old Arabidopsis plants were excised and dark acclimated for 9–15 h in 50 mM KCl/10 mM Tris-MES (pH 6.1, loading buffer) before being treated with BL and/or phosphatase inhibitors. Different photon flux densities of BL (0.3, 5, 50 or 100 µmol m−2 s−1) were obtained by changing the height between the leaf and a set of light-emitting diodes (450 ± 25 nm), which were mounted perpendicular to the leaf surface. The photon flux density was measured using a quantum meter (LI-COR 250; LI-COR, Lincoln, NE, USA) equipped with a light sensor (LI-COR 190SA; LI-COR). After BL treatment and/or co-incubation with phosphatase inhibitors for the indicated time, the leaves gently sandwiched between two glass slides were immediately inserted into the solid sample holder of the ultraviolet-visible spectrometer for measuring RL transmittance. To characterize the recovery dynamics of chloroplast movements, the changes in the RL transmittance were determined at the indicated time after the BL source was turned off and OA was removed by washing five times with the loading buffer. For each leaf, the change in the percentage RL transmittance was calculated as: Δ% RL transmittance = (Tt − T0)/T0, where Tt and T0 were the average percentage RL transmittance values after and before the BL and/or inhibitor treatments, respectively. The results were presented as the average change in the percentage RL transmittance for the indicated number of leaves. Protoplasts were isolated from Arabidopsis leaves (14–21 d old) according to a procedure described previously with slight modification (CITATION). For the OA treatment group, the protoplasts were firstly incubated with OA for 1 h, which was then removed by washing out five times with W5 solution (154 mM NaCl, 125 mM CaCl2, 5 mM KCl, 5 mM Glucose and 1.5 mM MES-KOH, pH 5.6). After BL treatment (100 µmol m−2 s−1, 10 min) followed by dark recovery for 5 min, the protoplasts suspension were resuspended in lysis buffer (50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 15 mM NaCl, 1% Triton X-100 and 100 mg ml−1 phenylmethylsulfonyl ﬂuoride) and incubated on ice with gentle shaking on a level shaker for 30 min. The samples were centrifuged at 12,000 × g for 5 min at 4°C and the supernatants were transferred to new 1.5-ml tubes. A 100-times diluted protein sample supernatant was used to determine the protein concentrations by the method of CITATION. The samples were separated by 12% SDS–PAGE, transferred onto polyvinylidene difluoride (PVDF) membranes and stained using Ponceau S. The resulting membrane was blocked with 5% skim milk and incubated with antibodies against phosphor-cofilin (Sigma) and polyclonal antibodies against the form II large subunit of Rubisco (RbcL) followed by IRDye 800 secondary antibody (Rockland Immunochemicals). Detection and quantitative analysis were performed using the LI-COR Odyssey Scanning Infrared Fluorescence Imaging System (LI-COR, Inc., Lincoln, NE, USA), according to a previously described method (CITATION). The pNTL-AtADF1-GFP (a derivative of pBluescript II KS, Stratagene) was kindly provided by Clement Thomas (Plant Molecular Biology, CRP-Sante, Luxembourg). Enhanced cyan fluorescent protein (ECFP) was amplified by PCR under the templates of pECFP (Clontech Laboratories), using the following primers: forward, 5′-CGGGATCCATGGTGAGCAAGGGCGAGGAGCT-3′; reverse, 5′- GGACTAGTTTACTTGTACAGCTCGTCCATGCCG-3′. The PCR products amplified from ECFP were digested with BamHI and SpeI, and then gel purified and ligated into the sites of the cloning vector pNTL-AtADF1-GFP to yield the pNTL-AtADF1-ECFP plasmid. The complete sequence integrity of all constructs was confirmed by DNA sequencing. Protoplasts were isolated from Arabidopsis leaves (14–21 d old) according to a previously described procedure with slight modification (CITATION). Before transfection, the protoplasts in W5 solution were bathed on ice for 30 min and then as much supernatant as possible was removed without touching the protoplast pellet. The protoplasts were resuspended in mannitol-MgCl2 solution (0.4 M mannitol, 15 mM MgCl2 and 4 mM MES pH 5.7) at room temperature and the concentration was adjusted to about 2 × 105 protoplasts ml−1 with the mannitol-MgCl2 solution. For transfection, 100 μL of protoplasts in mannitol-MgCl2 solution was incubated with 10–20 μg of plasmid DNA and 120 μL of polyethylene glycol (PEG) solution containing 40% (w/v) PEG-4000, 0.2 M mannitol and 0.1 M CaCl2. After incubation for 5–30 min at room temperature, 0.5 ml of W5 solution was added to stop the transfection. After centrifugation to remove the PEG solution, the protoplasts were collected and resuspended in 250 μL of W5 solution (24-well plates). Transfected protoplasts were left in the dark at room temperature for 8–20 h to allow the expression of the AtADF1-GFP or AtADF1-ECFP fusion protein.
