!~ABS~! Phospholipase A2 (PLA2) hydrolyzes phospholipids at the sn-2 position to yield lysophospholipids and free fatty acids. Of the four paralogs expressed in Arabidopsis, the cellular functions of PLA2α in planta are poorly understood. The present study shows that PLA2α possesses unique characteristics in terms of spatiotemporal subcellular localization, as compared with the other paralogs that remain in the ER and/or Golgi apparatus during secretory processes. Only PLA2α is secreted out to extracellular spaces, and its secretion to apoplasts is modulated according to the developmental stages of plant tissues. Observation of PLA2α-RFP transgenic plants suggests that PLA2α localizes mostly at the Golgi bodies in actively growing leaf tissues, but is gradually translocated to apoplasts as the leaves become mature. When Pseudomonas syringae pv.~tomato DC3000 carrying the avirulent factor avrRpm1 infects the apoplasts of host plants, PLA2α rapidly translocates to the apoplasts where bacteria attempt to become established. PLA2α promoter::GUS assays show that PLA2α gene expression is controlled in a developmental stage- and tissue-specific manner. It would be interesting to investigate if PLA2α functions in plant defense responses at apoplasts where secreted PLA2α confronts with invading pathogens.
!~RES~! Although RT-PCR analysis shows that PLA2α transcripts are present in different parts of Arabidopsis tissues ([B7]), there is little information regarding PLA2α gene expression at different developmental stages. To elucidate the cell type-specific expression patterns of the PLA2α gene, transgenic Arabidopsis lines were generated that expressed the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene under the control of the PLA2α promoter (Figure [F1]). GUS activity was detected in the cotyledons, the shoot apex, the hypocotyl, and the vascular tissues of 7-day-old germinated seedlings (Figure [F1]). Strong GUS activity was detected in the shoot apex in 14-day-old seedlings and 3-week-old plants, and was preferentially expressed in young leaves rather than old leaves (Figures [F1]–[F1]). No GUS activity was detected in the roots at this stage. In 5-week-old plants, GUS expression was found in the cauline leaves, sepals, styles, and pedicel of reproductive tissues (Figure [F1]). The apical end of the pedicel is particularly dark-stained, apparently due to its thickened cell tissues based on a comparison with the GUS staining of the control transgenic plants harboring the 35S promoter fused with the GUS gene (Figure [F1]). In plants transformed with ProPLA2α::GUS, GUS expression was also detected in the developing siliques (Figures [F1]–[F1]) and in the main roots of flowering plants (Figure [F1]). Taken together, these data indicate that PLA2α gene expression is controlled in a unique developmental stage- and tissue-specific manner. Spatial and temporal expression of PLA2α. Spatiotemporal expression patterns of the PLA2α gene in transgenic Arabidopsis plants harboring the PLA2α promoter fused with the GUS gene. Promoter activity was visualized by histochemical GUS staining. (A) Seven-day-old plant. (B) Fourteen-day-old plant. (C) Three-week-old plant. (D) Flower cluster, cauline leaf, and stem of a 5-week-old plant. (E–H) Carpels and developing siliques of a 5-week-old plant. (I) Pedicel of the control transgenic plants harboring the 35S promoter fused with the GUS gene. (J) Root of a 6-week-old plant. Bars = 2 mm. [B12] reported that fluorescence signals for PLA2α-fusion proteins were observed at the Golgi apparatus of root hair cells. However, [B5] showed time-dependent localization of PLA2α using a transient expression system incorporating N. tabacum. The YFP reporter fused with PLA2α was detected in cytoplasmic vesicles around the nucleus 36 h after agroinfiltration to tobacco leaves, and was detected at the extracellular spaces outside the cells at a later time point (48 h after agroinfiltration). To resolve these inconsistencies, we investigated in more detail the subcellular localization of PLA2α by analyzing the fluorescence of fusion proteins in transgenic plants carrying Pro35S::PLA2α-RFP. The leaves of 4-week-old PLA2α-RFP transgenic seedlings were viewed using a laser scanning confocal microscope. The results showed that the subcellular localization of PLA2α was dependent on the developmental stages of leaf tissue. PLA2α-RFP fusion proteins were present primarily at the Golgi apparatus in pre-mature young leaves (Figure [F2]), whereas in mature leaves, they were detected primarily in the apoplasts (Figure [F2]). Even after cell plasmolysis was induced by treatment with 1 N KNO3 for 5 min, the PLA2α-RFP signal remained in the extracellular spaces or diffused into the gap between the cell wall and the plasma membrane that is induced by plasmolysis (Figure [F2]). These results indicate that PLA2α is indeed localized in the apoplasts of mature leaves. Subcellular localization of PLA2α at different leaf ages in PLA2α-RFP transgenic Arabidopsis plants.(A,B) Epidermal cells in pre-mature leaf tissues (A) and mature leaf tissues (B) from Pro35SPLA2α-RFP transgenic Arabidopsis plants (4-week-old) were viewed using confocal microscopy. (C) Mature leaf tissues were incubated in 1 N KNO3 to induce plasmolysis before being viewed with confocal microscopy. The slightly decreased clarity of images in (C) appears to result from the diffusion of PLA2α-RFP into the expanded apoplasts due to plasmolysis. White arrows in (C) indicate the plasmolyzed plasma membrane, whereas black arrows indicate extracellular spaces. Fluorescent (top), bright field (middle), and merged images (bottom) are presented. Bars = 20 μm. As secretion of proteins to apoplasts is known to occur through ER and Golgi bodies, PLA2α-RFP signals were mostly detected at the Golgi bodies in pre-mature young leaves (Figure [F2]). However, the fluorescent spots become gradually bigger as the leaves become mature, leading us to suspect that they may be other cellular organelles. To investigate if the big PLA2α fluorescent spots are real Golgi bodies, we performed co-localization assay of PLA2α with a Golgi body marker, sialyltransferase (ST). Close-to-mature leaves of transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing both PLA2α-RFP and ST-GFP were observed with a laser scanning confocal microscope. As shown in Figure [F3], big spots of PLA2α-RFP signals are mostly overlapped with the spots of a Golgi body marker (ST-GFP), confirming that PLA2α is localized in Golgi apparatus before secretion to the apoplasts. We found that the apparent big size spots result from aggregation of several Golgi bodies and strong brightness of RFP-fluorescence. Aggregation of Golgi bodies appears to be gradually enhanced as the leaves become mature. Co-localization of PLA2α-RFP with ST-GFP, a Golgi body marker. Close-to-mature leaves of transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing both PLA2α-RFP and ST-GFP were observed with a laser scanning confocal microscope. PLA2α-RFP signals are mostly overlapped with ST-GFP, a Golgi body marker. ST-GFP (A), PLA2α-RFP (B), bright field (C), and merged image (D) are presented. Bar = 20 μm. As leaves become mature, PLA2α is secreted into the apoplast, where it generates its lipid products, lysophospholipids and free fatty acids. The lipid products have been suggested to function as bio-active molecules that mediate a variety of cellular processes. Apoplasts are an important site for the interaction of plant cell defense mechanisms with invading bacteria, which attempt to become established in the apoplasts. If PLA2α positively participates in defense responses to pathogen attack, we hypothesized that its translocation to the apoplasts would be enhanced when pathogens are inoculated. As speculated, the translocation of PLA2α to the apoplasts was enhanced at 3 h post-inoculation of avirulent bacteria, Pst-avrRpm1, in young leaves (Figure [F4]) and in close-to-mature leaves (Figure [F5]), as compared to non-treated controls (NT) and 0.015% Silwet/10 mM MgCl2-treated mocks (Figures [F4],[F4] and [F5],[F5]). Translocation of PLA2α to apoplasts was enhanced by the inoculation of bacteria, Pst-avrRpm1, in pre-mature young leaves. (A–C) Images showing increased fluorescence intensity and vesicle sizes followed by the translocation of PLA2α to apoplasts at 3 h post-inoculation of Pst-avrRpm1 (C) compared to the no-treatment control (A) and 0.015% Silwet/10 mM MgCl2-treated mock (B) in pre-mature young leaves where PLA2α is normally localized primarily in Golgi bodies. Fluorescent (top), bright field (middle), and merged images (bottom) are presented. Bars = 20 μm. Enhanced translocation of PLA2α to apoplasts in response to the inoculation of Pst-avrRpm1 in close-to-mature leaves. (A–C) Significant enhancement of PLA2α translocation to apoplasts was observed at 3 h post-inoculation of Pst-avrRpm1 (C) compared to the no-treatment control (A) and 0.015% Silwet/10 mM MgCl2-treated mock (B) in close-to-mature leaves where PLA2α is already detected at a low level in the apoplasts. Fluorescent (top), bright field (middle), and merged images (bottom) are presented. Bars = 20 μm.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana (Col-0) plants were grown in soil pots at 22°C, 60% relative humidity, with a 16-h photoperiod and a photon flux density of 110 μmol m-2 s-1. For histochemical localization studies, a PLA2α-promoter::GUS (ProPLA2α::GUS) construct was cloned by incorporating the PLA2α sequence upstream of the ATG start codon (from -1175 bp to +3 bp) into the HindIII and BamHI sites of the pBI101 vector. The resulting plasmids were inserted into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA105, which was transformed into Arabidopsis using the floral dip method as described previously ([B1]). Histochemical GUS assays to show tissue-specific PLA2α expression at different developmental stages were performed as previously described ([B6]). Tissues from ProPLA2α::GUS-transformed plants were immersed in GUS solution [1 mM X-gluc, 100 mM sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.0), 0.5 mM K3Fe(CN)6, 0.5 mM K4Fe(CN)6, 10 mM EDTA, and 0.1% (v/v) Triton X-100] and incubated for 12 h at 37°C due to its weak staining. After GUS staining, 100% ethanol was used to remove the chlorophyll. To investigate the dynamics of PLA2α subcellular localization, transgenic Arabidopsis plants carrying Pro35S::PLA2α-RFP were generated ([B12]). Leaf tissues from the PLA2α-RFP transgenic Arabidopsis plants were viewed at different developmental stages using a laser scanning confocal microscope (Meta system, Zeiss) after incubation in water or 1 N KNO3 for 5 min to trigger plasmolysis. RFP-fluorescence was excited at 543 nm and the emitted fluorescence was collected with a band-pass filter at 560–615 nm. To investigate whether PLA2α-RFP proteins are co-localized with a Golgi marker ST-GFP, transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing both PLA2α-RFP and ST-GFP were generated ([B12]). Close-to-mature leaves of 3-week-old transgenic plants were observed with a laser scanning confocal microscope (Meta system, Zeiss). RFP and GFP fluorescence was detected using at 543/560–615 nm and 488/505–530 nm excitation/emission filter sets, respectively. Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato DC3000 carrying avrRpm1 (Pst-avrRpm1) were obtained from Y. J. Kim (Korea University, Seoul, Korea). Plants were inoculated by spreading a bacterial suspension (1 × 108 CFU ml-1 in 0.015% v/v Silwet L-77 and 10 mM MgCl2) onto the adaxial leaf surfaces of Arabidopsis carrying Pro35S::PLA2α-RFP. Plants designated as NT were given no treatment, whereas mock plants were treated with 0.015% v/v Silwet L-77 and 10 mM MgCl2. All the data presented in this study were obtained from at least three independent replicates.
