!~ABS~! The UV-A/blue light photoreceptor crytochrome2 (cry2) plays a fundamental role in the transition from the vegetative to the reproductive phase in the facultative long-day plant Arabidopsis thaliana. The cry2 protein level strongly decreases when etiolated seedlings are exposed to blue light; cry2 is first phosphorylated, polyubiquitinated, and then degraded by the 26S proteasome. COP1 is involved in cry2 degradation, but several cop1 mutants show only reduced but not abolished cry2 degradation. SUPPRESSOR OF PHYA-105 (SPA) proteins are known to work in concert with COP1, and recently direct physical interaction between cry2 and SPA1 was demonstrated. Thus, we hypothesized that SPA proteins could also play a role in cry2 degradation. To this end, we analyzed cry2 protein levels in spa mutants. In all spa mutants analyzed, cry2 degradation under continuous blue light was alleviated in a fluence rate–dependent manner. Consistent with a role of SPA proteins in phytochrome A (phyA) signaling, a phyA mutant had enhanced cry2 levels, particularly under low fluence rate blue light. Fluorescence resonance energy transfer–fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy studies showed a robust physical interaction of cry2 with SPA1 in nuclei of living cells. Our results suggest that cry2 stability is controlled by SPA and phyA, thus providing more information on the molecular mechanisms of interaction between cryptochrome and phytochrome photoreceptors.
!~RES~! cry2 is rapidly degraded in etiolated Arabidopsis seedlings when exposed to continuous blue light (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Since COP1 plays a role in cry2 degradation (CITATION), SPA proteins work in concert with COP1 (CITATION), and both COP1 and SPAs physically interact with cry2 (CITATION; CITATION), we questioned whether SPA proteins have a function in cry2 degradation. To this end, we studied the kinetics of cry2 degradation in etiolated Columbia wild-type and spa1/2/4 triple mutant seedlings exposed to continuous blue light. cry2 protein levels were quantified using a Li-Cor Odyssey infrared imaging system, which allowed reliable detection of an infrared fluorophore-labeled secondary antibody that recognizes the cry2-specific antibody. cry2 protein levels were normalized here and in subsequent experiments to the α-tubulin signal obtained from the same immunoblot (Figure 1B); the cry2 protein levels were in the linear range for both the cry2 and the α-tubulin signals (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). The specificity of the anti-cry2 antibody was again confirmed with extracts obtained from cry2 mutant plants that showed no cry2 signal on immunoblots (Figure 1C). A very rapid and strong blue light–induced decrease in cry2 protein levels was observed in the wild type, with essentially no detectable protein remaining after 180 min of irradiation, even though the applied fluence rate of blue light (λmax 471 nm; 15 µmol m−2 s−1) was only moderate (Figure 1A). Likewise, cry2 rapidly degraded in the spa1/2/4 mutant seedlings kept under the same light conditions (Figure 1A), but the extent of cry2 degradation in the spa1/2/4 mutant was lower than in the wild type. This resulted in significantly higher cry2 protein levels in the spa1/2/4 mutant than in the wild type at 15, 90, and 120 min after the onset of irradiation. Albeit significant, the differences in cry2 protein levels between the wild type and the spa1/2/4 mutant were not very great under the fluence rate of blue light used in this experiment. [[FIGURE]] Since cry2 degradation is fluence rate dependent (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), we analyzed the dose response of cry2 degradation in the wild type and spa mutants (all in a Columbia background). In these studies, we included the spa1 single mutant, all combinations of spa triple mutants, and the spa1/2/3/4 quadruple mutant that lacks all SPA proteins. Particularly under low fluence rates of blue light (0.01 to 1 µmol m−2 s−1), the degradation of cry2 was strongly reduced in all spa mutants tested (Figure 2; for original data, see Supplemental Figure 2 online). However, under low fluence rates, the reduction in cry2 degradation in the spa1/2/3 triple was less pronounced than in the other mutants, and under higher fluence rates, the cry2 level was higher in the spa1/2/3 triple than in the wild type and the other spa mutants. Since the cry2 levels in darkness, when normalized to the α-tubulin signal as a loading control, were essentially the same in the wild type and the spa mutants (see Supplemental Figure 2 online), the higher level of cry2 in the spa mutants is due to reduced degradation during irradiation and not to increased synthesis. [[FIGURE]] The decrease in cry2 protein levels of blue light–irradiated seedlings was previously shown to be caused by enhanced protein degradation and not by a decrease in CRY2 transcript levels (CITATION). To confirm that the same holds true under our experimental conditions, we analyzed CRY2 transcript levels by quantitative RT-PCR. There was no significant difference in CRY2 transcript levels comparing dark-grown and low fluence rate blue light–treated wild type, spa1/2/4, and phyA mutant seedlings (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). Compared with dark-grown seedlings, when seedlings were treated for 2 h with a higher fluence rate of blue light (30 µmol m−2 s−1), we observed some decrease in CRY2 transcripts. However, this decrease was again the same for all genotypes. We conclude from this result that neither SPAs nor phyA has an effect on the level of CRY2 transcripts. In line with the conclusion that the amount of cry2 protein is mainly regulated at the protein level, CITATION found that cry2 degradation in the Columbia-0 (Col-0) ecotype is inhibited by the proteasome inhibitor MG132. Using even higher doses of blue light and a combination of different proteasome inhibitors, we found a similar reduction in cry2 degradation by the proteasome inhibitors for all ecotypes applied in our study (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). This confirms again that the decrease in cry2 protein levels seen under blue light irradiation is the result of a proteolytic degradation occurring in all Arabidopsis accessions tested here. In contrast with the effect of blue light, irradiation of seedlings with red light has essentially no effect on cry2 levels; therefore, it was concluded that cry2 degradation depends exclusively on blue light (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We found the same lack of effect of red light on cry2 levels in an experiment using the same fluence rates of red light that we used for the blue light experiments (0.01 to 30 µmol m−2 s−1; see Supplemental Figure 5 online). Similarly, far-red light at high fluence rates (15 and 30 µmol m−2 s−1) did not result in any degradation of cry2 (see Supplemental Figure 5 online). These results are also in line with previous data (CITATION) showing that activation of phytochromes alone has no effect on cry2 levels, independent of the phytochrome response modes analyzed (very low fluence response, low fluence response, far-red high irradiance response). Moreover, our data are consistent with the point of view that photoactivation of cry2, which occurs only with wavelengths below 500 nm (CITATION), is required and sufficient for cry2 degradation. SPA proteins are involved in the signaling cascade of phyA during the deetiolation process (CITATION; CITATION). Considering the above shown role of SPAs in cry2 degradation, we investigated whether phyA has a role in cry2 degradation. Surprisingly, much less cry2 was degraded in the phyA mutant under very low and low fluence rates of blue light (0.01 to 1 µmol m−2 s−1). This effect was nearly as pronounced as that observed in the cop1 mutant (Figure 3). At higher fluence rates, the difference between the wild type and the phyA mutant was not significant; the cop1 mutant had higher but not significantly different cry2 levels than the wild type under high fluence rates of blue light (Figure 3). Our data show that there is a very low fluence response of phyA, resulting in enhanced cry2 degradation, which occurs only when cry2 itself is photoactivated by blue light. This finding provoked us to analyze whether phyB also promotes cry2 degradation. However, the observed cry2 levels in the phyB mutant were not statistically different from those of the wild type (Figure 4). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Surprisingly, the extent of cry2 degradation under blue light fluence rates of up to 1 µmol m−2 s−1 was much lower in the Landsberg erecta (Ler) wild type (Figure 4) than in the Col-0 wild type (Figure 3). For example, irradiation of the Col-0 wild type with blue light for 2 h at 0.01 µmol m−2 s−1 resulted in about a 60% lower amount of cry2 protein compared with the dark level, whereas the same irradiation of Ler wild type caused only a 25% lower amount. This generally weaker decrease in cry2 levels in the Ler ecotype under low fluence rates of blue light might explain the similarly less pronounced effect of the phyA mutation in the Ler background (Figure 4) compared with the Col-0 background (Figure 3). cry2 degradation under low fluence rates of blue light is even less pronounced in the Rschew (RLD) accession compared with Col-0 and Ler accessions (see Supplemental Figure 6 online). Likewise, spa1, phyA, and spa1/phyA mutants in the RLD background behaved like the wild type in the dose-dependent degradation of cry2 (see Supplemental Figure 7 online). The reason for this discrepancy between different accessions is not clear yet. However, the lower sensitivity of Ler and RLD accessions compared with Col-0 is not the result of different mechanisms of downregulation of cry2 protein levels since plants of all accessions showed a qualitatively similar response to the proteasome inhibitors (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). Moreover, no significant difference was seen between Col-0, Ler, and RLD accessions in their dose–response curves of hypocotyl growth inhibition under blue light (see Supplemental Figure 8 online). Thus, the different sensitivities of these three Arabidopsis accessions against blue light are not a general feature but could be specific for the degradation of cry2. Recently, it has been shown that cry2 colocalizes with SPA1 in nuclei of fixed Arabidopsis cells (CITATION) and in nuclei of onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells (CITATION). Also, these authors used coimmunoprecipitation (Co-IP) and yeast two-hybrid interaction techniques to show that cry2 interacts with SPA1. Moreover, it was demonstrated by yeast two-hybrid studies that SPA2-SPA4 also interact with cry2; however, SPA1 showed the most robust interaction among all four SPA proteins (CITATION). Although these data clearly show that cry2 interacts with all four SPAs, it cannot be excluded that in nuclei of living plant cells some of these interactions are mediated by adaptor proteins such as COP1. We therefore applied FRET-FLIM to analyze more rigorously direct interactions between cry2 and all members of the SPA quartet. As a positive control, we used CRYPTOCHROME-INTERACTING BASIC-HELIX-LOOP-HELIX PROTEIN1 (CIB1), which has been shown to bind to photoactivated cry2 in living plant, yeast, and mammalian cells (CITATION; CITATION). To this end, full-length cry2 and CIB1 were fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP) or red fluorescent protein (RFP) either at the N or C terminus, respectively. In the case of SPA1-SPA4, full-length proteins were fused to the fluorescent proteins only at their N terminus since C-terminal fusions are not tolerated by these proteins. Genes encoding these fusions were introduced into light-grown Nicotiana benthamiana leaves by Agrobacterium tumefaciens infiltration. Expression of full-length fusion proteins was verified by immunoblot analysis (see Supplemental Figure 9 online). As shown in Figure 5, cry2, CIB1, and all four SPAs localized to nuclei as additionally verified using the mCherry-NLS reporter (CITATION). Moreover, the pictures from the merged GFP and RFP channels showed that cry2 colocalizes with CIB1 and all four SPAs. This supports previous findings for the colocalization of cry2 with CIB1 (CITATION) and with SPA1 (CITATION; CITATION) but does not prove unambiguously a direct interaction of cry2 with all SPAs. To test this in greater detail, we applied FRET-FLIM. This technique allows the detection of direct protein–protein interactions of fluorophore-labeled partners in living cells, which results in shorter fluorescence lifetimes of the donor fluorophore depending on the rate of energy transfer to the acceptor fluorophore (CITATION). The results of these measurements are shown in Figure 6. As negative controls (no energy transfer), we used the fluorescence lifetimes of the GFP-SPA1 single transformant and the GFP-SPA1/mCherry-NLS double transformant, which were in the same range of 2.30 nano seconds (ns). The positive controls (GFP-CIB1/RFP-CRY2 and GFP-CIB1/CRY2-RFP) showed significantly shorter lifetimes compared with the negative controls between 1.90 and 2.04 ns. This result clearly confirms a direct physical interaction between cry2 and CIB1 in the nuclei of living plant cells. All three combinations tested for the cry2-SPA1 interaction (GFP-SPA1/RFP-CRY2, GFP-SPA1/CRY2-RFP, and RFP-SPA1/CRY2-GFP) showed, in comparison to the negative controls, significantly reduced fluorescence lifetimes in the range between 1.90 and 2.00 ns. Thus, the rate of energy transfer in the cry2-SPA1 combination is nearly the same as in the cry2-CIB1 interaction. Thus, cry2 interacts directly with SPA1 in the nucleus. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Since the interaction of cry2 with all members of the SPA quartet was demonstrated by yeast two-hybrid interaction studies (CITATION), we were interested in applying FRET-FLIM to test whether these interactions also occur in nuclei of living plant cells. Since in the FRET-FLIM assay there was robust interaction of cry2 with SPA1 detectable independent from which fluorescent protein (GFP or RFP) was fused to cry2 and whether this fusion was made at its N- or C terminus, we tested only the GFP-SPA2-4/RFP-cry2 combinations. None of these combinations led to significantly shorter fluorescence lifetimes compared with the negative controls (Figure 6), although all fusion proteins were expressed to similar levels (Figure 5; see Supplemental Figure 9 online). Thus, these studies provided no proof for a direct interaction of cry2 with SPA2-4 in living plant cells. To verify these data, we conducted in vitro pull-down experiments using in vitro–transcribed and translated SPA1-4 proteins and recombinant, affinity-purified cry2 expressed in insect cells. The expression of cry2 in insect cells allows the production of photoactive photoreceptor (CITATION). The cry2 sample used in our studies had a correctly bound FAD cofactor and showed a normal photocycle (see Supplemental Figure 10A online). As a negative control in our pull-down experiments, we used recombinant and functional Escherichia coli DNA photolyase (see Supplemental Figure 10A and Supplemental References 1 online) as a bait because cry2 and photolyase are structurally highly similar flavoproteins, but with completely different biological functions. The recombinant cry2 and E. coli DNA photolyase baits carried a 6×His-tag, which allowed both proteins to be specifically and quantitatively immunoprecipitated with the same anti-His-tag antibody (see Supplemental Figures 10B and 10C online). The bait and prey proteins and all following steps were incubated either under white light or under safe red light to test whether the interaction is light dependent. For SPA2 and SPA3, nearly identical signals were obtained in the white and red light assays independent of the presence of cry2 (Figures 7A and 7B). We interpret these signals obtained in the absence of cry2 as unspecific binding of SPA2 and SPA3 to the His-tag antibody and/or the protein G magnetic beads. In contrast with SPA2 and SPA3, no unspecific signals were obtained for SPA1 and SPA4. The addition of cry2 to the assays kept in white light resulted in clear signals, which indicated that these two SPA proteins bind to cry2 (Figure 7A). When the same assays were performed under red light, the results were very similar (Figure 7B). Thus, SPA1 and SPA4 seemed to interact with cry2 in a light-independent fashion. [[FIGURE]] To confirm the significance of these results, we performed control experiments with proteins already known to interact directly with cry2. As mentioned above, COP1 interacts with cry2 independent of light (CITATION). The results of our Co-IP experiments with recombinant cry2 and in vitro–transcribed and translated COP1 are in agreement with this finding (Figure 7C). Another protein that interacts with cry2 is CIB1, a basic helix-loop-helix protein (CITATION). Indeed, we detected CIB1 binding to cry2 under white light, but also under red light, which suggested a light-independent interaction (Figure 7D). This result was unexpected since CIB1 was reported not to interact with cry2 under red light (CITATION). However, closer analysis of our results indicated that the coprecipitated fraction of CIB1 was higher under white light than under red light, which is indicative of a higher affinity of CIB1 to the lit state of cry2 than to its dark state. The reliability of our Co-IP experiments was further confirmed in negative controls using E. coli DNA photolyase as the bait protein, which did not bind CIB1 or SPA1 (Figure 7E).
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis thaliana mutants phyA-211, cop1-6, spa1-7/2-1/4-1, spa1-7/3-1/4-1 spa1-7/2-1/3-1, spa1-7/2-1/3-1/4-1 spa1-7, and spa2-1/3-1/4-1 in the Columbia ecotype background have been described (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The mutants phyA-412 cry1-304 cry2-1, cry1-1 cry2 (fha-1), phyA-201, and phyB-5 in the Ler ecotype background have been described by CITATION, CITATION, and CITATION. The mutants phyA-101, spa1-2, and phyA-101 spa1-2 in the RLD ecotype are described by CITATION and CITATION. Arabidopsis seeds were surface sterilized with 25% bleach (sodium hypochlorite; 12% Cl) and 0.05% Triton X-100 for 10 min, followed by washing five times with distilled water. Seeds were plated on 0.5× Murashige and Skoog medium (Duchefa) without Suc or on three layers of Whatman paper soaked with distilled water for RNA isolation. After stratification for 4 d at 4°C in the dark, germination was induced by exposing seeds to white light for 4 h at 22°C. For analyzing cry2 protein and CRY2 transcript levels, plates were kept after induction of germination for 4 d in the dark at 22°C and exposed afterwards to continuous blue, red, or far-red light or kept in darkness for 2 h. Plates for hypocotyl growth inhibition measurements were exposed directly after stratification to the dark, or to blue, red, or blue plus red light for 96 h. Seedlings were exposed to light-emitting diode sources (CLF Plant Climatics) with emission maxima of λmax 471 nm (blue light), λmax 675 nm (red light), and λmax 748 nm (far-red light). Fluence rates were determined using an Optometer P-2000 spectroradiometer (Gigahertz Optik), and light intensities were adjusted to the required fluence rates using a gray filter. For determination of cry2 protein and CRY2 transcript levels, plant material was harvested under safe light (dim green light) and immediately shock-frozen in liquid nitrogen. For quantification of hypocotyl growth inhibition, seedlings were photographed using a Nikon Coolpix 5000 digital camera, and hypocotyl lengths were determined using Image J 1.40 (National Institutes of Health). For treatments with proteasome inhibitors, seedlings kept in the dark for 96 h after stratification were preincubated for 2 h in the dark either in a mixture of proteasome inhibitors in 2% DMSO or in 2% DMSO as a mock control. Afterwards, seedlings were exposed for 2 h to blue light (λmax = 471 nm, 30 µmol m−2 s−1) or kept for the same time in the dark and then immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen. The mixture of proteasome inhibitors contained ALLN, MG132, MG115, and PS1 (Merck), each at 50 µM. Plant material was pulverized in liquid nitrogen using an MM200 cell mill (Retsch), and the frozen powder was resuspended in extraction buffer (10% trichloroacetic acid, 90% acetone, and 0.07% β-mercaptoethanol). After three washing steps in acetone containing 0.07% β-mercaptoethanol, the pellets were resuspended in 1× SDS sample buffer, sonicated, and boiled for 5 min at 95°C. Equal amounts (20 µg) of protein extracts were subjected to SDS-PAGE and blotted onto nitrocellulose membranes. For immunodetection, polyclonal anti-cry2 antibody raised in rabbits and monoclonal mouse anti-α-tubulin antibody (Sigma-Aldrich) together with the secondary fluorophore-labeled antibodies IRDye 680 goat-anti-mouse IgG and IRDye 800CW goat-anti-rabbit IgG (Li-Cor) were applied using the Odyssey infrared imaging system (Li-Cor). Signal intensities of cry2 and α-tubulin were calculated by the Odyssey software. The quantified signals were normalized to the mean background. The cry2 signal was normalized against the α-tubulin signal in the same lane. The level of cry2 in the dark sample of each genotype was set as 100%. For quantitative real-time PCR, total RNA was isolated from Arabidopsis seedlings using the RNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen). Prior to RT-PCR, isolated RNA was treated with Turbo DNase (Ambion) for elimination of genomic DNA. cDNA was synthesized using the first-strand cDNA kit (Fermentas). Every cDNA reaction was checked for contamination by residual genomic DNA in an additional PCR reaction using the UBQ real-time primers. Quantitative PCR was performed using the SensiFAST SYBR No-ROX kit (Bioline) with a Mastercycler ep Realplex apparatus (Eppendorf) with the following program: 95°C 2 min, 95°C 5 s, 60°C 10 s, 72°C 20 s, 40 cycles. The primers used for CRY2 were forward (5′-GCTTTGCTGTGAAGTTTCTTCTCC-3′) and reverse (5′-GCCTTGTAACGCGGGATTGTC-3′), and for UBQ forward (5′-CGGGAAAGACGATTACTCTTGAGG-3′) and reverse (5′-GCAAGAGTTCTGCCATCCTCC-3′). The relative CRY2 transcript levels were normalized against the UBQ signals according to the 2−∆∆Ct (cycle threshold) method (CITATION). Design of full-length open reading frame (ORF) constructs of SPA1 and SPA2-4 in the gateway entry vector pENTR/D-TOPO (Invitrogen) has been described before (CITATION; CITATION). Full-length ORF of CRY2 without stop codon was PCR amplified from a cDNA plasmid with primers forward (5′-CACCATGAAGATGGACAAAAAGACTATAG-3′) and reverse (5′-TTGGCAACCATTTTTTCCCAAAC-3′). Full-length ORF of CIB1 without stop codon was RT-PCR amplified from total RNA isolated from Arabidopsis Col-0 wild type by primers forward (5′-CACCATGAATGGAGCTATAGGAGGTGAC-3′) and reverse (5′-AACTCCTAAATTGCCATAGAGATTC-3′). CRY2 and CIB1 PCR products were introduced in the entry pENTR/D-TOPO vector and correctness of the ORFs verified by sequencing. Transfer of these ORFs from the entry to the destination vectors was done using Gateway LR Clonase II Enzyme Mix (Invitrogen). The following plant binary destination vectors were used: pB7RWG2 C termini and pB7RWG2 N termini (CITATION) yielding in-frame fusions of the ORFs with RFP at their C (X-RFP) or N terminus (RFP-X), respectively. Expression in these vectors is driven by the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. pUGT1 and pUGT2 (CITATION) yielded in-frame fusions of the ORFs with mGFP5 at their C terminus (X-GFP) or N terminus (GFP-X), respectively. In pUGT vectors, expression is driven by the Arabidopsis Ubiquitin 10 promoter. For SPAs, fusions with the fluorescent reporters were only made at the N termini of the SPA proteins since previous studies showed that they do not tolerate C-terminal fusions. After 4 to 6 weeks of cultivation in growth chambers (temperature 26°C day/19°C night, humidity 62%, 14 h white light) leaves of N. benthamiana plants were transformed with Agrobacterium strain GV3101 pMP90 (CITATION). Infiltration occurred in the adaxial sides of the leaves. The p19 protein from tomato bushy stunt virus was used for suppression of transgene silencing (CITATION). Transformation of the different expression vectors encoding the fusion proteins was accomplished as described (CITATION). Three days after infiltration, the transient expression and localization of the fusion proteins in plant epidermal leaf cells were detected using confocal laser scanning microscopy. Afterwards some plant material was harvested followed by protein extraction for immunoblot analysis. In vivo interaction studies of the full-length fusion proteins were measured by FRET-FLIM with a confocal stage scanning microscope according to CITATION. For each tested combination of fusion proteins, three measurements of fluorescence lifetime decays were recorded and mean values estimated. Some constructs used for in vitro transcription and translation have been described previously: SPA1 and GAD-COP1 (CITATION), SPA2 (CITATION), and SPA3 and SPA4 (CITATION). The construct encoding full-length CIB1 in a modified pBS-35S-AlaRLUC vector (CITATION) was available; we removed the ORF of RLUC by restriction with NotI and XbaI and replaced it by a c-Myc epitope-coding region containing a stop codon. The c-Myc epitope was generated by annealing of the two 41-mers 5′-GGCCGCTGAGCAAAAGTTGATTTCTGAGGAGGATCTTTAGT-3′ and 5′-CTAGACTAAAGATCCTCCTCAGAAATCAACTTTTGCTCAGC-3′, which provided a double-stranded c-Myc epitope coding region with a NotI overhang at the 5′ end and an XbaI overhang at the 3′ end for ligation into the NotI-XbaI–restricted pBS-35S-AlaRLUC vector, replacing RLUC. CIB1-c-Myc was cut out of this modified pBS-35S vector using NcoI and BamHI and inserted into the target vector pET-15b(+) (Novagen). The full-length coding region of CIB1 was amplified with pfu DNA polymerase (Fermentas) from Col-O cDNA using primers 5′-CCATGGCCATGAATGGAGCTATAGGAG-3′ and 5′-GCGGCCGCAACTCCTAAATTGCCATAG-3′, which contained a restriction site (underlined) for NcoI and NotI, respectively. After subcloning of the PCR product into the pGEM-T vector (Promega), the PCR product was verified by sequencing. Prey proteins were expressed from the T7 promoters in the presence of [35S]Met (Hartmann Analytic) using the TnT reticulocyte in vitro transcription/translation system (Promega) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The genes encoding the bait proteins His-cry2 and His-PHR (Escherichia coli DNA photolyase) were expressed, and the proteins were purified as described (CITATION; CITATION). For Co-IP, 50 μL of Dynabeads Protein G (Invitrogen) was incubated with 2.5 µg of monoclonal antibody against the 6×His-tag (Clontech-Takara Bio Europe) in binding/wash buffer (Immuoprecipitation Kit-Dynabeads Protein G; Invitrogen) in a total volume of 250 μL for 1 h at 4°C with mixing by rotation. In parallel, 10 μL of each TnT-produced prey protein was incubated in the absence or presence of 2 µg of either His-cry2 or His-PHR in a total volume of 100 μL in binding buffer (200 mM Tris, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM DTT, and 0.1% Tween 20) with Complete EDTA-free protease inhibitors (Roche). The magnetic beads were washed three times with 200 μL of wash buffer, and each prey protein sample (preincubated with or without bait) was individually added to the preincubated bead samples. Samples were further incubated for 1 h at 4°C with mixing by rotation, and the beads were collected and washed three times with 200 μL of wash buffer. Afterwards, the beads were resuspended and boiled in 25 μL of 1× SDS sample buffer. The Co-IP fractions and 2 μL of each TnT reaction (also in 25 μL of 1× SDS sample buffer) were separated by SDS-PAGE, and signals were detected with a Storm 860 PhosphorImager (Molecular Dynamics). Sequence data of genes encoding the proteins studied in this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: CIB1, At4g34530; COP1, At2g32950; CRY2, At1g04400; PHYA, At1g09570; PHYB, At2g18790; SPA1, At2g46340; SPA2, At4g11110; SPA3, At3g15354; and SPA4, At1g53090. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Calibration Curves for CRY2 and α-Tubulin Signals in Relation to the Amount of Total Protein Loaded on Each Lane. Supplemental Figure 2. Immunoblots Showing Blue Light (λmax = 471 nm) Fluence Rate–Dependent Degradation of CRY2 in the Wild Type and Various Mutants in Different Backgrounds. Supplemental Figure 3. CRY2 Transcript Levels in Wild-Type, spa1/2/4, and phyA Mutant Seedlings. Supplemental Figure 4. CRY2 Degradation in the Presence of Proteasome Inhibitors. Supplemental Figure 5. Immunoblot of Protein Extracts from Seedlings Exposed to Red Light or Far-Red Light and Probed in Parallel with Anti-cry2 and Antitubulin Antibodies. Supplemental Figure 6. Dose–Response Curve of CRY2 Degradation in Col-0, Ler, and RLD Wild Types. Supplemental Figure 7. Fluence Rate–Dependent Degradation of CRY2 in Wild-Type, phyA-101, spa1-2, and phyA-101 spa1-2 Mutant Seedlings. Supplemental Figure 8. Dose–Response Curve of Hypocotyl Growth Inhibition under Blue Light. Supplemental Figure 9. Immunoblots Showing the Expression of Full-Length Fusions of CRY2, CIB1, and SPA1-SPA4 with Fluorescent Proteins. Supplemental Figure 10. Characterization of Bait Proteins Used for in Vitro Coimmunoprecipitation Studies. Supplemental Figure 11. Hypocotyl Growth Inhibition of Various Photoreceptor and spa Mutants. Supplemental References 1. Supplemental References for Supplemental Figure 1.
