!~ABS~! While various signalling networks regulate plant responses to heat stress, the mechanisms regulating and unifying these diverse biological processes are largely unknown. Our previous studies indicate that the Arabidopsis monothiol glutaredoxin, AtGRXS17, is crucial for temperature-dependent postembryonic growth in Arabidopsis. In the present study, we further demonstrate that AtGRXS17 has conserved functions in anti-oxidative stress and thermotolerance in both yeast and plants. In yeast, AtGRXS17 co-localized with yeast ScGrx3 in the nucleus and suppressed the sensitivity of yeast grx3grx4 double-mutant cells to oxidative stress and heat shock. In plants, GFP-AtGRXS17 fusion proteins initially localized in the cytoplasm and the nuclear envelope but migrated to the nucleus during heat stress. Ectopic expression of AtGRXS17 in tomato plants minimized photo-oxidation of chlorophyll and reduced oxidative damage of cell membrane systems under heat stress. This enhanced thermotolerance correlated with increased catalase (CAT) enzyme activity and reduced H2O2 accumulation in AtGRXS17-expressing tomatoes. Furthermore, during heat stress, expression of the heat shock transcription factor (HSF) and heat shock protein (HSP) genes was up-regulated in AtGRXS17-expressing transgenic plants compared with wild-type controls. Thus, these findings suggest a specific protective role of a redox protein against temperature stress and provide a genetic engineering strategy to improve crop thermotolerance.
!~RES~! AtGRXS17 has a conserved Trx-HD and three tandem Grx-HDs, which are similar to yeast and mammalian monothiol Grxs, while yeast ScGrx3/ScGrx4 have one Grx-HD, and a mammalian Grx3 has two repeated Grx-HDs at their C-termini (CITATION). In yeast, ScGrx3 or ScGrx4 deletions do not affect cell growth; however, deletion of both ScGrx3 and ScGrx4 significantly reduce cell growth (Figure 1a). This impaired growth could be rescued by overexpression of ScGrx3 or ScGrx4 (Figure 1a). To examine whether AtGRXS17 could complement ScGrx3/ScGrx4 functions in yeast grx3grx4 double-mutant cells, AtGRXS17 and C-terminal green fluorescent protein (GFP)-fused AtGRXS17 (AtGRXS17-GFP) were expressed in the double-mutant strain, respectively. Both AtGRXS17 and AtGRXS17-GFP could restore mutant cell growth (Figure 1a). [[FIGURE]] Yeast ScGrx3 and ScGrx4 are required for cell survival under oxidative stress (CITATION). To determine whether AtGRXS17 could suppress the sensitivity of grx3grx4 cells to external oxidants, both AtGRXS17 and AtGRXS17-GFP were expressed in grx3grx4-mutant cells and grown in media with or without 1 mm H2O2 or0.5 mm diamide. In these conditions, both AtGRXS17 and AtGRXS17-GFP, like yeast ScGrx3, were able to rescue the growth of mutant cells (Figure 1b,c). Moreover, AtGRXS17-GFP co-localized with yeast ScGrx3-RFP in the nuclei when expressed in grx3grx4 cells (Figure 1e). Given the conserved function of monothiol AtGRXS17 in counteracting oxidative stress in yeast (Figure 1b,c), we sought to determine whether the effects of AtGRXS17 on temperature stress responses are also conserved in yeast. In comparison with normal yeast growth conditions (30 °C), yeast grx3grx4-mutant cells grown at 50 °C for 20 min displayed reduced survival rate, and treatment at 50 °C for 60 min further limited their growth (Figure 1d), indicating that heat stress impaired the growth of yeast grx3grx4-mutant cells. When yeast ScGrx3 or AtGRXS17 were expressed in the mutant cells, the cells were more tolerant to the temperature stress (Figure 1d), indicating AtGRXS17 may also play a crucial role in the protective effects against elevated temperatures. These data suggest that monothiol AtGRXS17 participates in a conserved defence pathway against high temperature and oxidative stress. Based on the yeast results and our Arabidopsis data that atgrxs17 alleles are hypersensitive to high temperature and display dramatic growth defects under heat stress (CITATION), we hypothesize that enhancing AtGRXS17 expression can improve thermotolerance in plants. To test this idea, we introduced a construct containing AtGRXS17 driven by the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter into tomato (Solanum lycopersicum L. cv Rubion). More than 20 independent transgenic lines were generated and 4 morphologically normal lines appearing to contain single transgene insertions in Southern blot analysis were selected and subjected to further analysis of response and adaptation to heat stress (AtGRXS17-3, -5, -6 and -9; Figure 2e). Consistent with a single insertion, the T1 seeds of these four lines showed a segregation pattern of 3 : 1 for the kanamycin resistance marker gene. To obtain homozygous AtGRXS17 lines, segregation analysis on T2 seeds from self-pollinated T1 AtGRXS17-expressing plants was carried out on 100 mg/L kanamycin selection medium, and the expression of AtGRXS17 was examined by reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR analysis (Figure 2f). [[FIGURE]] The phenotype of the AtGRXS17-expressing tomatoes was indistinguishable from the wild-type plants under normal growth conditions (Figure 2a). Examination of plant height for the 2-month-old AtGRXS17-expressing tomato plants (plant height from soil surface to the upper leaf; 87 ± 14 cm; n = 3) found that they were not significantly different from that of wild-type plants (85 ± 12 cm; n = 3). Moreover, expression of AtGRXS17 did not affect fruit shape and yield (Figure 2b–d). To investigate the subcellular localization of AtGRXS17 in plant cells, N-terminal GFP-fused AtGRXS17 (GFP-AtGRXS17) was transiently expressed in epidermal cells of tobacco leaves through Agrobacterium-infiltration (CITATION). The GFP-AtGRXS17 signals were primarily detected in the cytoplasm and the nuclear envelope (66 of 100 cells having signals detected in the cytoplasm with weaker signals in the nucleus, while 34 of 100 cells having stronger signals detected in the nucleus) under normal growth conditions (Figure 3a left panel, c). At increased temperature (90 min at 45 °C), GFP-AtGRXS17 signals were predominately nuclear in 85 of 100 cells examined (Figure 3a right panel, c). In contrast, free GFP targeted to nuclei independent of heat treatment (100 of 100 cells) (Figure 3b,c). [[FIGURE]] To further investigate the AtGRXS17 subcellular localization in tomato plants, we generated four stable AtGRXS17-GFP expression tomato plants driven by the CaMV35S promoter. Expression of AtGRXS17-GFP from all four transgenic lines could be detected by immunoblot using a GFP antibody (Figure 3e) and three lines (AtGRXS17-GFP-1, -6 and -9) were subjected to subcellular localization analysis of AtGRXS17 in the guard cells of stomata owing to the much more opaque nucleus that guard cells have in comparison with the epidermal cells of tomato. During a heat stress, we observed that the majority of GFP signals were localized in the nuclei from all three lines, while no GFP signals in the nuclei could be detected under normal growth conditions (Figure 2f). Together, these data indicate that AtGRXS17 translocate from the cytoplasm into the nucleus under heat stress. For heat tolerance experiments, 35 different homozygous T2 AtGRXS17-expressing plants derived from each of the four T1 transgenic lines (AtGRXS17-3, AtGRXS17-5, AtGRXS17-6 and AtGRXS17-9) were analysed. The growth and development of AtGRXS17-expressing tomato plants were indistinguishable from those of wild-type plants before heat treatment (Figure S2). AtGRXS17-expressing tomatoes displayed robust growth and heat tolerance after 3 days at 38/28 °C (day/night, 16-h photoperiod) followed by 3 days at 42/32 °C (day/night, 16-h photoperiod), whereas the wild-type plants were severely damaged during these growth conditions (Figure 4a). AtGRXS17-GFP lines also displayed heat tolerance under the same growth conditions as compared to wild-type plants (Figure 3d). The enhanced heat stress tolerance of the transgenic plants was further verified by measuring changes in chlorophyll fluorescence. The chlorophyll fluorescence Fv/Fm ratio, indicating the maximum quantum efficiency of Photosystem II, were similar in the AtGRXS17-expressing transgenic plants and the wild-type plants during the initial 3 days at 38/28 °C; however, following 3 days at 42/32 °C, the Fv/Fm ratio of wild-type plants was significantly decreased compared with AtGRXS17-expressing transgenic plants (Figure 4b). Moreover, heat stress caused severe electrolyte leakage in the wild-type plants, whereas the AtGRXS17-expressing transgenic plants were significantly less damaged, indicating increased plasma membrane integrity and reduced disruption of cell membranes in the transgenic lines (Figure 4c). The enhanced heat stress tolerance of the AtGRXS17-expressing transgenic plants compared with wild-type plants was also confirmed by measuring above-ground fresh and dry weight of the plants. The fresh and dry weight of wild-type and AtGRXS17-expressing transgenic plants did not show significant difference when grown under normal temperature for 2 months. However, after being treated by heat stress, the AtGRXS17-expressing transgenic plants displayed significantly higher fresh and dry weight yields than those of the wild-type plants (Figure 4d,e). The transgenic plants demonstrated more robust recovery when transferred to 25/22 °C (day/night, 16-h photoperiod), and the yield of the AtGRXS17-expressing tomatoes was indistinguishable from that of wild-type controls under normal growth conditions (Figure 4f). [[FIGURE]] Heat stress is accompanied by the formation of ROS such as , H2O2 and OH radical, causing damage to membranes and macromolecules (CITATION). To investigate the potential mechanism by which AtGRXS17 improved thermotolerance in tomato, we measured H2O2 accumulation by using 3,3′-diaminobenzidine (DAB) staining of leaves from wild-type plants and three different homozygous T2 AtGRXS17-expressing plants derived from each of 2 T1 transgenic lines (AtGRXS17-6 and AtGRXS17-9). In both in vitro and in vivo tests, the leaves of AtGRXS17-expressing plants displayed less brown spotting and diffuse staining than those of the wild-type plants under the heat stress regime, indicating less H2O2 accumulation in the transgenic lines (Figure 5a). The intensity and quantity of brown spots caused by H2O2 accumulation in the leaves was analysed by image J after transforming the pictures to 256 grey scale images (Figure S1). The statistical analysis further confirmed significantly less H2O2 accumulation in the transgenic lines compared with the wild-type plants after the heat treatment (Figure 5b) (Analysing details were described in the Supporting information Figure S1). [[FIGURE]] We then investigated the effects of ectopic expression of AtGRXS17 on the activities of other antioxidant components. We measured peroxidase (POD), catalase (CAT) and glutathione reductase (GR) activities in both wild-type controls and transgenic lines. The activities of CAT, but not those of GR and POD, were significantly increased in all AtGRXS17-expressing lines when compared to wild-type controls under both normal and heat stress conditions (Figures 5c and S3). Together, these results suggest that the tolerance of the AtGRXS17-overexpressing tomato plants against heat stress, at least in part, results from reducing ROS accumulation through the enhancement of the antioxidant activity of CAT. The induction of HSPs is one of the predominant responses to temperature stress, and these HSPs perform important physiological functions as molecular chaperones for protein quality control, such as preventing the aggregation of denatured proteins and promoting the renaturation of aggregated protein molecules caused by high temperature regimes (CITATION; CITATION). Given that AtGRXS17-expressing tomatoes are highly tolerant to heat stress, a possible interaction between AtGRXS17 and HSPs was further investigated. To evaluate how the expression of AtGRXS17 in heat stressed tomatoes influences the expression levels of HSPs, HSP21 (nuclear-coding protein located in the chloroplast) (CITATION), LeERHSP21.5 (endoplasmic reticulum-located small heat shock protein) (CITATION) and LeMTSHP (mitochondrial small heat shock protein) (CITATION) were selected for real-time qRT-PCR analysis (Table S1). After the initial 3 days at 38/28 °C, both wild-type and AtGRXS17-expressing tomato plants (AtGRXS17-6 and -9) showed increased expression of all three HSPs (Figure 6a). Moreover, after 3 days of treatment at 38/28 °C plus 1 days of treatment at 42/32 °C, both wild-type and AtGRXS17-expressing tomato plants also showed significantly increased expression of all three HSPs, exhibiting more than 100-fold elevated expression, as compared to the expression after only 3 days of treatment at 38/28 °C. Most importantly, expression levels of all HSPs in the AtGRXS17-expressing tomato plants were significantly higher than those of the wild-type plants after 1 day of treatment at extreme high temperatures (42/32 °C), exhibiting more than 2.5- to 4-fold elevated expression (Figure 6a). [[FIGURE]] Heat shock transcription factors (HSFs) are the components of signal transduction regulating the expression of HSPs and play an important role in heat stress responses and thermotolerance in plants (CITATION). Given that AtGRXS17-expressing tomatoes showed highly elevated expression levels of HSPs under heat stress, a possible interaction between AtGRXS17 and HSFs was also further investigated. We examined the expression of two tomato HSFs, LeHSFA1a and LeHSFA2 using qRT-PCR analysis (Table S1). In tomato, HSFA1a has been defined as a master regulator of heat stress response (CITATION), whereas HSFA2 is an important HSF for thermotolerance (CITATION). After 3 days of treatment at 38/28 °C, AtGRXS17-expressing tomato (AtGRXS17-9) showed significantly increased expression of both LeHSFA1a and LeHSFA2 as compared to wild-type controls (Figure 6b). Furthermore, after 3 days of treatment at 38/28 °C plus 1 day of treatment at 42/32 °C, AtGRXS17-expressing tomato (AtGRXS17-6) displayed significantly increased expression of both LeHSFA1a and LeHSFA2 as compared to wild-type controls and AtGRXS17-9 lines (Figure 6b). These data suggest that up-regulation of HSPs/HSFs may account for thermotolerance in AtGRXS17-expressing tomato plants.
!~MM~! The full-length cDNA of AtGRXS17 was amplified using an AtGRXS17 forward primer: 5′-ATG AGC GGT ACG GTG AAG GAT-3′ and an AtGRXS17 reverse primer: 5′-TAG CTC GGA TAG AGT TGC TTT-3′. The fidelity of all clones was confirmed by sequencing. To express AtGRXS17 in yeast cells, the AtGRXS17 was subcloned into yeast expression vector piUGpd. Saccharomyces cerevisiae wild-type strain CML235 (MATa ura3-52 leu2Δ1 his3Δ200) and grx3grx4 double-mutant (MATa ura3-52 leu2Δ1 his3Δ200 grx3::kanMX4 grx4::kanMX4) were provided by Dr. Enrique Herrero (Universitat de Lleida, Lleida, Spain) and used in all yeast experiments. Yeast growth assays were followed the published protocol (CITATION). For AtGRXS17 subcellular localization in yeast assays, full-length AtGRXS17 was fused to the N-terminus of green fluorescent protein (GFP) using a procedure described previously (CITATION). The AtGRXS17-GFP fusion was then subcloned into the yeast vector as described previously. In yeast, AtGRXS17-GFP was imaged in colocalization with yeast Grx3-RFP. The fluorescence signals were detected at 510 nm (excitation at 488 nm) for GFP, at 582 nm (excitation at 543 nm) for DsRed. Seeds of tomato Solanum lycopersicum L. (cv Rubion) were surface sterilized and germinated on the CITATION inorganic salt medium. Tomato transformation was performed via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation method using cotyledon and hypocotyls explants as described (CITATION). Agrobacterium tumefaciens LBA 4404 was used for generating stable transgenic plants. The plasmid pCaMV35S::AtGRXS17 and pCaMV35S::AtGRXS17-GFP were introduced into A. tumefaciens using the freeze–thaw method (CITATION), respectively. After inoculatinge with A. tumefaciens, the plant cultures were maintained at 25 °C under a 16-h photoperiod. After 6 to 8 weeks, regenerated shoots were transferred to rooting medium for 6 more weeks. The temperature of the greenhouse was maintained within a range of 25–30 °C. For agroinfiltration transient expression in tobacco leaves (Nicotiana benthamiana), full-length AtGRXS17 was fused to the C-terminus of green fluorescent protein (GFP) using a procedure described previously (CITATION). The GFP-AtGRXS17 construct was made by LR reaction (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) between the binary vector pB7WGF2 (CITATION) and the entry vector carrying AtGRXS17 (pENTER-4, Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). pB7WGF2/GFP-AtGRXS17 was introduced into Agrobacterium strain GV3101 as described and then used for agro-infiltration as previously described (CITATION). For heat shock treatment, at 1.5–2 days postinfiltration (DPI), the infiltrated leaves were detached from tobacco plants, kept in Petri dishes with the moistened filter paper and incubated at 25 or 42 °C for 90 min, respectively. For AtGRXS17-GFP localization in tomato stomatal cells, 30-day-old stable AtGRXS17-GFP-expressing plants were treated by either heat or control treatments before microscopic observation. Images were captured with a confocal laser scanning system (Leica, SP5 X, Leica Microsystems Inc., Buffalo Grove, IL) and fluorescence microscope (Zeiss AxioPlan, Carl Zeiss Microscopy, Thornwood, NY). The fluorescence signals were detected at 510 nm (excitation at 488 nm) for GFP and at 582 nm (excitation at 543 nm) for DsRed. Tomato genomic DNA was extracted from leaf tissue using Qiagen Plant DNA extraction kit. DNA (10 μg) was digested with XbaI and separated by electrophoresis and blotted onto a nylon membrane (Zeta-probe GT membrane, Bio-Rad Laboratories, Hercules, CA) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The probe for the AtGRXS17 gene was isolated from a pGEM-T-easy vector contained AtGRXS17 by enzyme digestion. The membranes were prehybridized overnight at 65 °C in 7% SDS and 0.25 m Na2HPO4 and then hybridized overnight at 65 °C in the same solution containing the probe labelled by NEBlot Phototope Kit (New England Biolabs, Ipswich, MA). Membranes were washed twice for 40 min each with 20 mm Na2HPO4 and 5% SDS at 65 °C and then washed twice again for 30 min each with 20 mm Na2HPO4 and 1% SDS at 65 °C. The signal was detected by Phototope-Star Detection Kit (New England Biolabs) according to the manufacture’s instruction. Total RNA was isolated using the Qiagen Plant RNeasy kit from leaves of tomato plants according to the manufacturer’s instructions. RNA for real-time PCR was treated with RNase-free DNase prior to the synthesis of first-strand cDNA by oligo (dT) priming using moloney murine leukaemia virus-reverse transciptase (BD Biosciences Clontech, Palo Alto, CA). One microlitre of the reverse transcription reaction solution was used as a template in a 25-μL PCR solution. Real-time PCR was performed in 25-μL reactions containing 10.5 μL of cDNA, 1 μL of 10 mm of each primer and 12.5 μL of SYBR Green PCR Master Mix (Bio-Rad Laboratories). Analysis was performed using the Bio-Rad IQ3 (Bio-Rad Laboratories). Primer efficiencies were measured, and relative expression level was calculated using the comparative Ct method. The primers for PCR were listed in the supplementary data (Table S1). Total leaf protein was extracted from 100 mg of fresh leaf tissue using the Plant Total Protein Extraction Kit (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO). The protein concentration was determined by the Pierce BCA Protein Assay Kit (Thermo Scientific, Rockford, IL). Total protein that was separated by 10% SDS/PAGE was electroblotted to PVDF membrane (Millipore, Billerica, MA) and immunoblotted with Rabbit anti-GFP antibody (Invitrogen) and goat anti-rabbit secondary antibody (Bio-rad) using standard methods. The signal was detected with Amersham ECL kit (GE Healthcare, Pittsburgh, PA). Injury to tomato plants was characterized by measuring chlorophyll fluorescence and electrolyte leakage of leaves as described by CITATION. Chlorophyll fluorescence from the adaxial side of the leaf was monitored using a portable chlorophyll fluorometer (PEA, Hansatech Instruments, Ltd., UK). Photochemical efficiency of leaves, as determined by chlorophyll fluorescence ratios (Fv/Fm), was monitored during and after heat treatment. Measurements were taken during the light cycle on the leaves using the saturation pulse method after 30 min of dark adaptation. For electrolyte leakage, leaf samples were incubated in 15 mL of distilled water for 10 h to measure the initial electrolyte leakage using an YSI conductance meter (Model 32, YSI, Inc., Yellow Springs, OH). The samples were subjected to 80 °C for 2 h to release the total electrolytes and then held at room temperature for 10 h. The final conductivity on the leachate was measured to determine the per cent percentage of electrolyte leakage from the leaf samples. Four-week-old seedlings were treated by 42 °C/32 °C (day/night) for 4 days, and then the shoots were harvested and homogenized in liquid nitrogen. The resulting powder was suspended (1:5 m/v) in an ice-cold protein extraction buffer made by 50 mm PBS, 1% PVP and 1 mm PMSF, and centrifuged at 13 000 g for 15 min at 4 °C. The protein concentration was measured by BCA protein assay kit (Pierce, Rockford, IL). The activity of CAT was assayed by measuring the rate of disappearance of H2O2 at 240 nm, following the method of CITATION. One unit of the CAT activity was defined as 0.01 absorbance decrease per minute at 240 nm. There were 6 biological replicates for each data points. T2-generation AtGRXS17-expressing transgenic or wild-type tomato seeds were surface sterilized and germinated on MS medium. Positive candidates were selected after 15 days and transferred to pots containing Miracle Gro (700) soil growing medium and grown in a growth chamber with a temperature of 25/22 °C (day/ night) under a 16-h photoperiod. The plants were regularly watered and fertilized on a weekly basis with 20 : 20 : 20 fertilizer (Scotts). The 4-week-old seedlings were treated under 38/28 °C (day/night) for 3 days and then 42/32 °C (day/night) for additional 3 days. Leaves from 4-week-old wild-type and AtGRXS17-expressing tomato plants were used for the DAB (3, 3′-diaminobenzidine) staining. For in vivo heat stress test, wild-type and AtGRXS17-expressing plants grown under normal condition were incubated at 25/22 °C (day/night) (control, upper row) and 42/32 °C (day/night) (heat stress, lower row) for 48 h, respectively. After treatments, leaves were picked and steeped in solutions containing 1 mg/mL DAB (pH 3.8) at 25 °C in the dark for 1 h to take up the stain. H2O2 accumulation was detected as brown spots after DAB staining. After staining by DAB, all tomato leaves were bleached by incubating in boiled 95% ethanol for 5 min. For in vitro detection, tomato leaves were cut and immediately immersed in water containing 1 mg/mL DAB solution (pH 3.8) and kept at 25 °C (for control) or 42 °C (for heat treatment) in the dark for 3 h. Then, the leaves were bleached by immersion in boiling 95% ethanol to visualize the brown spots.
