!~ABS~! Triacylglycerol (TAG) levels and oil bodies persist in sucrose (Suc)-rescued Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) seedlings disrupted in seed oil catabolism. This study set out to establish if TAG levels persist as a metabolically inert pool when downstream catabolism is disrupted, or if other mechanisms, such as fatty acid (FA) recycling into TAG are operating. We show that TAG composition changes significantly in Suc-rescued seedlings compared with that found in dry seeds, with 18:2 and 18:3 accumulating. However, 20:1 FA is not efficiently recycled back into TAG in young seedlings, instead partitioning into the membrane lipid fraction and diacylglycerol. In the lipolysis mutant sugar dependent1and the β-oxidation double mutant acx1acx2 (for acyl-Coenzyme A oxidase), levels of TAG actually increased in seedlings growing on Suc. We performed a transcriptomic study and identified up-regulation of an acyltransferase gene, DIACYLGLYCEROL ACYLTRANSFERASE3 (DGAT3), with homology to a peanut (Arachis hypogaea) cytosolic acyltransferase. The acyl-Coenzyme A substrate for this acyltransferase accumulates in mutants that are blocked in oil breakdown postlipolysis. Transient expression in Nicotiana benthamiana confirmed involvement in TAG synthesis and specificity toward 18:3 and 18:2 FAs. Double-mutant analysis with the peroxisomal ATP-binding cassette transporter mutant peroxisomal ABC transporter1 indicated involvement of DGAT3 in the partitioning of 18:3 into TAG in mutant seedlings growing on Suc. Fusion of the DGAT3 protein with green fluorescent protein confirmed localization to the cytosol of N. benthamiana. This work has demonstrated active recycling of 18:2 and 18:3 FAs into TAG when seed oil breakdown is blocked in a process involving a soluble cytosolic acyltransferase.
!~RES~! Total TAG content in Suc-rescued mutants disrupted in TAG breakdown (sdp1; CITATION), FA transport across the peroxisome membrane (pxa1; CITATION), and the core reactions of β-oxidation (acx1acx2, CITATION; mfp2, CITATION; and kat2-2, CITATION) are shown in Figure 1. While TAG was almost completely catabolized in Columbia-0 (Col-0) seedlings maintained on Suc at 5 d after imbibition (DAI), the total TAG content in 5-DAI Suc-rescued mutant seedlings showed smaller changes compared with dry seed (DS) and in some cases increases (Fig. 1). These results are consistent with published data on total FA composition and eicosenoic acid levels (a marker for seed storage TAG) and confirm these mutants are severely impaired in their ability to catabolize seed storage TAG (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The increased TAG levels in sdp1 and acx1acx2 5-DAI seedlings suggest de novo TAG synthesis is occurring in these mutant seedlings. The slight decrease in mfp2 5-DAI seedlings compared with DS is consistent with this mutant not being completely blocked in FA breakdown as previously reported based on eicosenoic acid levels (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Compositional analysis of individual TAG species confirmed that for Col-0 all of the identified TAGs decreased to near-undetectable levels in 5-DAI Suc-rescued seedlings compared with DS, in marked contrast to the oil breakdown mutants (Fig. 2). In sdp1 and acx1acx2 Suc-rescued 5-DAI seedlings the levels of most of the TAG species including those containing 20:1 actually increased. In kat2-2 Suc-rescued 5-DAI seedlings the majority of TAG species were at similar levels compared with the corresponding DS and in mfp2 TAG species content was slightly lower than in DS. Interestingly, in pxa1 Suc-rescued 5-DAI seedlings we observed an increase in TAG species containing 18:3 and to a lesser extent 18:2 (Fig. 2C). These results indicate that blocking different steps in TAG catabolism affects not only TAG content in 5-DAI seedlings, but also TAG composition. [[FIGURE]] In germinating seedlings the FAs released from oil bodies are activated to acyl-CoAs before they are catabolized by peroxisomal FA β-oxidation (CITATION). To investigate how the acyl-CoA pool size and composition changes in concert with the apparent decrease in TAG breakdown observed in the mutants, we analyzed the acyl-CoA content in seedlings. In sdp1 the total acyl-CoA content in 5-DAI seedlings was similar to Col-0 (Fig. 3A). In contrast, we observed that in pxa1 and all β-oxidation mutants there was an accumulation of acyl-CoAs in 5-DAI seedlings compared with Col-0. Furthermore, the acyl-CoA profile showed a relative enrichment in long-chain acyl-CoAs, especially 20:1-CoA, in pxa1 and β-oxidation mutants (Fig. 3B). These results confirm that sdp1 is impaired in lipolysis, as has been reported by CITATION, while in pxa1 and the β-oxidation mutants lipolysis is not impaired and FAs are activated to acyl-CoAs but further catabolism is compromised. In the case of pxa1, the data suggests efficient incorporation of de novo or recycled 18:2 and 18:3 FA/acyl-CoAs into TAG but poor utilization of accumulated 20:1 acyl-CoA. [[FIGURE]] The observation that impairing the peroxisomal ATP-binding cassette transporter function affects TAG and acyl-CoA pool content and composition suggests that other lipid pools may also be affected. To investigate this we analyzed DAG and polar lipid composition in Col-0 and pxa1 DS and 5-DAI seedlings. The only difference we observed in DS was a slightly higher DAG content in pxa1 relative to Col-0 (Fig. 4A). However, in 5-DAI seedlings there was a general increase in microsomal lipids and a decrease in galactolipids in pxa1 compared with Col-0 (Fig. 4B). The lipid FA composition in pxa1 5-DAI seedlings showed an increase in 20:1 content in DAG, phosphatidic acid, phosphatidylcholine, and phosphatidylethanolamine compared with Col-0, while there were no significant differences in 18:2 and 18:3 content between pxa1 and Col-0 in any of the polar lipids analyzed (Table I). [[FIGURE]] Values are means ± sd of measurements from five separate batches of 100 seedlings. Asterisk (*) indicates significantly different from Col-0 (P < 0.05) by ANOVA test. ND, Not detected. In Arabidopsis, DGAT1 has been described as the main enzyme responsible for TAG synthesis and accumulation during seed development (CITATION; CITATION) and 20:1 is specifically found in TAG (CITATION). However, our results imply that in pxa1 germinating seeds, where FA are released from TAG and activated to acyl-CoA but not catabolized via β-oxidation, 20:1-CoA is transferred to microsomal lipids, while 18:2-CoA and 18:3-CoA are preferentially incorporated into TAG. This finding suggests that an alternative pathway that prefers 18:2 and 18:3 over 20:1 for TAG synthesis is operating during pxa1 seedling establishment. To further investigate the putative alternative pathway for TAG synthesis during pxa1 seedling establishment, we performed a transcriptomic study of Col-0 and pxa1-1 germinating seeds at 12 h after imbibition (HAI) and 5-DAI seedlings using the Affymetrix ATH1 microarray. Table II shows the expression levels of genes identified to be involved in lipid synthesis and catabolism (CITATION). Only three genes show a greater than 2-fold change in pxa1 compared with Col-0: LPEAT2, ACX1, and DGAT3. Of these the DGAT3 gene (At1g48300) is potentially interesting since it shows greater homology to a peanut cDGAT, than to AtDGAT1 or AtDGAT2 (Supplemental Fig. S1). Quantitative real-time (qRT)-PCR analysis showed that while DGAT1, DGAT2, and PDAT1 gene expression levels in pxa1 were similar to Col-0 during seed germination and seedling establishment, DGAT3 expression in pxa1 12-HAI seeds was 2-fold more abundant than in Col-0 (Supplemental Fig. S2). These data suggest that DGAT3 could have a role in an alternative pathway for TAG synthesis during pxa1 seedling establishment. Analysis of publicly available Affymetrix data revealed DGAT3 expression throughout seed development and seedling establishment in Col-0 (Supplemental Fig. S3A). Although DGAT1 showed the highest expression levels in developing seeds during the period of maximum TAG accumulation, DGAT3 expression levels were higher than DGAT1, DGAT2, or PDAT1 during seed germination and the latter stages of seedling establishment. Therefore it is possible that in pxa1 the block in the import of FA into the peroxisome leads to an increase of acyl-CoA substrate for the putative DGAT3, and the incorporation of acyl-CoA into TAG, with a preference for 18:2 and 18:3 over 20:1. We used the Genevestigator development tool (CITATION) to compare the expression levels of DGAT1, DGAT2, DGAT3, and PDAT1 in Affymetrix datasets in the public domain. We found that DGAT3 shows strong expression across 10 development stages that is consistently higher than the other three genes apart from the senescence stage, where DGAT1 is more strongly expressed (Supplemental Fig. S3B). AGI, Arabidopsis Genome Initiative. To test whether the putative DGAT3 gene encodes for a cytosolic DGAT, we performed Agrobacterium-mediated transient expression in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves, using AtDGAT1 as a positive control. Five days after Agrobacterium infiltration, leaves were sampled and TAGs isolated and analyzed directly from fresh-frozen tissue. The results showed a significant increase in TAG content in N. benthamiana leaves expressing either DGAT3 or DGAT1 genes, compared with leaves from the empty vector (ev) negative control (Fig. 5A). These results support our homology-based assumption that the DGAT3 gene (At1g48300) encodes a DGAT enzyme, although its overall activity appears lower than DGAT1. Trilinolenin stood out in this analysis as the only TAG accumulating to higher levels in DGAT3 than DGAT1 (Fig. 5B). Indeed, TAG composition analysis revealed an enrichment of TAGs containing 18:3 for DGAT3 compared with DGAT1, with the latter appearing to preferentially incorporate FA other than 18:3 into TAG (Fig. 5B). [[FIGURE]] We obtained, from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre, an Arabidopsis GABI-Kat insertion line (GABI_696F08) that carries a T-DNA at the position 336 of the DGAT3 open reading frame. Homozygous plants were obtained by self pollination and confirmed by PCR. No obvious morphological or developmental differences compared with Col-0 were observed under standard growth room conditions. Quantification of TAG, DAG, and galactolipids in DS and 5-DAI Suc-grown seedlings of this mutant, which we now refer to as dgat3, showed no differences compared with Col-0 (Supplemental Fig. S4). However, compared with pxa1, a pxa1dgat3 double mutant did show a significant decrease in the amount of 18:3 FA derived from TAGs in 5-DAI Suc-grown seedlings (Fig. 6), providing further evidence that DGAT3 contributes to recycling 18:3 into TAG. [[FIGURE]] To compare the localization of DGAT3 with that of DGAT1, which is known to be localized to the endoplasmic reticulum (CITATION), the genes were cloned and fused at their C termini with GFP. The fused genes were transiently expressed in N. benthamiana leaves, which were analyzed for fluorescence patterns using confocal microscopy. As shown in Figure 7, the transiently expressed gene products presented a different pattern. While leaves expressing DGAT1-GFP displayed strong fluorescence that localized to a reticular network characteristic of the endoplasmic reticulum, the more diffuse fluorescence pattern observed for the transiently expressed DGAT3-GFP can be taken as evidence that this enzyme is mainly cytosolic. There is precedence for this endoplasmic reticulum versus cytosolic labeling pattern in N. benthamiana leaves (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] These results indicate that there is a cytosolic route for TAG synthesis, where the DGAT3, encoded by At1g48300, preferentially incorporates 18:3 and to a lesser extent 18:2 into TAG.
!~MM~! Wild-type Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) ecotype Col-0 and mutant (Col-0 background) seeds were surface sterilized and germinated in one-half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium (CITATION) containing 1% (w/v) agar and 20 mm Suc. After a cold treatment of 72 h at 4°C in the dark, plates were transferred to a growth room at 20°C with continuous light (70 μm m−2 s−1). Twelve hours after imbibition seeds and 5-d-old seedlings were harvested, frozen with liquid nitrogen, and stored at −80°C. sdp1 and kat2 in the Col-0 background (herein referred to as kat2-2) were isolated in a sugar-dependent screen (CITATION). pxa1-1 and acx1-2acx2-1 seeds were kindly donated by Dr. Bonnie Bartel and mfp2 was obtained from the Salk collection (http://signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/tdnaexpress). dgat3 is a GABI-kat insertion line (GABI_696F08) obtained from Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre, which carries a T-DNA in the At1g48300 gene. The homozygous pxa1-1dgat3 double mutant was confirmed for the pxa1 mutation by the pxa1 phenotype of failure to undergo successful seedling establishment without Suc (CITATION) and for the dgat3 mutation by PCR using DGAT3-specific primers LH9 and LH10 (Supplemental Table S1) and T-DNA-specific primer GABI-left: 5′-CCCATTTGGACGTGAATGTAGACAC-3′. Lipid extraction and neutral lipid analysis by liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry were performed as previously described (CITATION). Polar lipids were separated by two-dimensional thin layer chromatography (CITATION). FA methyl esters of individual lipids classes were produced by acyl-catalyzed transmethylation (CITATION) and analyzed by gas chromatography with flame ionization detection (GC8000 Top, Thermoquest Separation Products), fitted with a 30-m-long 0.25-mm ID SGE BPX70 column (SGE). Helio was used as a carrier gas at 1 mL min−1 with a 30:1 split ratio. The oven was run isothermally at 110°C for 1 min, then ramped to 180°C at 20°C min−1 then to 221°C at 2.5°C min−1. The acyl-CoA profile was measured using the method of CITATION with modifications described in CITATION. Total RNA isolation from dry and imbibed seeds was performed using solutions previously treated with diethyl pyrocarbonate to inhibit RNases. Approximately 200 seeds were ground with liquid nitrogen using a blue pestle. After homogenization, 150 μL of extraction buffer (0.2 m sodium borate decahydrate, 30 mm EGTA, 1% [w/v] SDS, and 1% [w/v] sodium deoxycholate), 10 mm dithiothreitol, 2% (w/v) polyvinyl pyrrolidone, and 1% (v/v) IGEPAL were added. After adding 6 μL of proteinase K (Roche Diagnostics), samples were mixed and incubated at 42°C for 90 min. After the incubation, 12 μL of 2 m KCl were added, samples were mixed, and incubated on ice for 60 min. To remove debris samples were centrifuged at 15,000g for 20 min at 4°C. The supernatant was transferred to a fresh tube and 54 μL of 8 m LiCl were added. Samples were mixed and incubated at −20°C for 3 h. After the incubation, samples were centrifuged at 15,000g for 20 min at 4°C and the RNA pellet was dissolved in 100 μL RNase-free water. RNA was purified by RNeasy plant mini kit (QIAGEN). Total RNA was isolated from 5-d-old seedling using the RNeasy plant mini kit (QIAGEN). The quality of RNA was verified by demonstration of intact ribosomal bands following agarose gel electrophoresis in addition to the absorbance ratios (A260/280 and A260/030). Contaminating DNA was removed from RNA samples (1 μg) using the TURBO DNA-free kit (Ambion). First-strand cDNA was synthesized from 0.5 μg DNA-free total RNA using the SuperScript III first-strand synthesis system (Invitrogen) with oligo(dT)20 primer, following the manufacturer’s instructions. Isolated RNA was used for cDNA synthesis and biotin-modified RNA amplification using the MessageAmp III RNA amplification kit (Ambion). Three biological replicates per sample were hybridized independently to the Affymetrix ATH1 array, washed, stained, and scanned following the procedures described in the Affymetrix technical manual. The expression levels of genes were measured by signal intensities using the Micro Array Suite 5.0 software with a target signal of 500. Public domain Affymetrix ATH1 data sets were obtained from NascArrays (http://affymetrix.arabidopsis.info/narrays/experimentbrowse.pl) and The Arabidopsis Information Resource (http://www.arabidopsis.org/). The Genevestigator V4 classic metaprofile analysis tool (available at https://www.genevestigator.com) was used to compare expression levels of DGAT1 (At2g19450), DGAT2 (At3g51520), DGAT3 (At1g48300), and PDAT1 (At5g13640) across 10 different developmental stages. Gene expression analysis was performed by qRT-PCR using an ABI Prism 7000 thermal cycler and the SYBR-green PCR master mix (Applied Biosystems). Primers for gene-specific amplification (Supplemental Table S1) were designed using the Primer3 program (http://frodo.wi.mit.edu/cgi-bin/primer3/primer3_www.cgi) to generate a product of 100 to 200 bp, and to have a melting temperature of 60°C ± 1°C and a length of 19 to 23 bp. Reaction mix (25 μL per well) contained 1× SYBR-green PCR master mix, 400 nm forward and reverse primers, and 1 μL of cDNA diluted 10 times, which was selected according to the primers amplification efficiency. The thermal cycling conditions consisted of an initial denaturation step of 95°C for 10 min, followed by 40 cycles of 95°C for 15 s and 60°C for 1 min. The specificity of the PCR amplification was monitored by melting curve analysis following the final step of the PCR. PCR efficiencies (E) of all primers were calculated using dilution curves with four dilution points, and the equation E = [10(−1/slope)] − 1. The CITRATE SYNTHASE3 gene was used as the endogenous reference since it has similar levels of expression as the genes of interest in both the wild type and pxa1. The qRT-PCR data were calibrated relative to the corresponding gene expression level in Col-0, following the 2−ΔΔCt method for relative quantification (CITATION). The data are presented as means ± sd of three biological replicates, each having three replicates per plate. For Agrobacterium-mediated cauliflower mosaic virus 35S-driven transient expression, the DGAT3 and DGAT1 coding sequences were PCR amplified using the specific primers LH47, LH48, LH35, and LH36, respectively (Supplemental Table S1), and subcloned into the GATEWAY-compatible binary vector pH2GW7 (for TAG analysis) or pK7FWG2 (for subcellular localization; CITATION). The resulting constructs and the ev used as a control were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 by electroporation. Nicotiana benthamiana leaves were infiltrated with A. tumefaciens cultures (OD600 approximately 0.8) according to CITATION omitting the acetosyringone treatment. Samples were collected 5 d after infiltration, ground in liquid nitrogen, and stored at −80°C until TAG analysis. For subcellular localization, fresh leaf imaging was carried out on a Zeiss LSM 510 META laser-scanning confocal equipped with a Zeiss Axioplan 2 microscope (Carl Zeiss Ltd). Images were acquired using a Plan-Neofluar 20×/0.5 or a Plan-Apochromat 63×/1.4 oil immersion differential interference contrast objective. Imaging of GFP emission was performed by sequential scanning. GFP was excited with the 488-nm line of a 30-mW argon laser and the emission collected through a 505 to 530 bp emission filter. Images were taken at Nyquist resolution with eight line averaging. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Comparison of the deduced amino acid sequences of peanut DGAT3 and Arabidopsis DGAT1 (At2g19450), DGAT2 (At3g51520), and DGAT3 (At1g48300) genes. Supplemental Figure S2. Quantitative gene expression profiles of TAG synthesis genes during seed germination and seedling establishment in pxa1-1 relative to Col-0. Supplemental Figure S3. Affymetrix ATH-1 selected TAG synthesis gene expression levels in Col-0. Supplemental Figure S4. Total TAG, DAG, and monogalactosyldiacylgalactolipid content from Col-0 and dgat3 DS and 5-DAI seedlings. Supplemental Table S1. Locus names and sequences of primers pairs used for gene expression analysis by qRT-PCR in this study.
