!~ABS~! A family of eight genes with homology to mammalian glutathione peroxidase (GPX) isoenzymes, designated AtGPX1–AtGPX8, has been identified in Arabidopsis thaliana. In this study we demonstrated the functional analysis of Arabidopsis AtGPX8 with peroxidase activity toward H2O2 and lipid hydroperoxides using thioredoxin as an electron donor. The transcript and protein levels of AtGPX8 in Arabidopsis were up-regulated coordinately in response to oxidative damage caused by high-light (HL) stress or treatment with paraquat (PQ). Furthermore, the knockout Arabidopsis mutants of AtGPX8 (KO-gpx8) exhibited increased sensitivity to oxidative damage caused by PQ treatment in root elongation compared with the wild-type plants. In contrast, transgenic lines overexpressing AtGPX8 (Ox-AtGPX8) were less sensitive to oxidative damage than the wild-type plants. The levels of oxidized proteins in the KO-gpx8 and Ox-AtGPX8 lines were enhanced and suppressed, respectively, compared with the wild-type plants under HL stress or PQ treatment. The fusion protein of AtGPX8 tagged with green ﬂuorescent protein was localized in the cytosol and nucleus of onion epidermal cells. In addition, the AtGPX8 protein was detected in the cytosolic and nuclear fractions prepared from leaves of Arabidopsis plants using the AtGPX8 antibody. Oxidative DNA damage under treatment with PQ increased in the wild-type and KO-gpx8 plants, while it decreased in the OX-AtGPX8 plants. These results suggest that AtGPX8 plays an important role in the protection of cellular components including nuclear DNA against oxidative stress.
!~RES~! SDS–PAGE analysis of the soluble proteins from Escherichia coli cells expressing AtGPX8 fused with the histidine (His)-tag showed expression of a large amount of the recombinant proteins (Fig. 1A). The molecular mass of this fusion protein was approximately 22 kDa, which was in agreement with the molecular mass of the AtGPX8 protein plus the His-tag predicted theoretically. Puriﬁcation by HiTrap™ chelating HP afﬁnity column chromatography yielded the recombinant AtGPX8 protein of apparent electrophoretic homogeneity. The purified protein was characterized by Western blot analysis using a mouse antiserum raised against the AtGPX8 protein or the His-tag (Fig. 1B, C). The fact that the amino acid sequence of AtGPX8 had 55–65% homology with those of AtGPX1–AtGPX7 (Supplementary Fig. S1) led to the study of the cross-reactivity of AtGPX8 antibody with other AtGPXs, AtGPX1, AtGPX2, AtGPX5 and AtGPX6. The AtGPX8 antibody had a cross-reactivity with the recombinant AtGPX8 protein, but not the other AtGPXs (Fig. 1C), suggesting that the AtGPX8 antibody recognizes an epitope specific for only AtGPX8 protein.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The peroxidase activity of recombinant AtGPX8 toward H2O2, cumene hydroperoxide (CumOOH), t-buthylhydroperoxide, linoleic acid hydroperoxide and linolenic acid hydroperoxide was not detected with GSH or NADPH as a reducing agent (Table 1). However, AtGPX8 was able to reduce H2O2 and hydroperoxides with the E. coli Trx as a reducing agent. The Vmax value of AtGPX8 for H2O2 was 390 ± 20.5 nmol min−1 mg−1 protein, which was approximately 1.3–2.5 higher than those for CumOOH (Vmax: 300 ± 10.6) and linolenic acid hydroperoxide (Vmax: 157 ± 10.5), respectively. Double reciprocal plots of 1/[catalytic activity] vs. 1/[substrate concentration] for H2O2 were linear and reproducible for the AtGPX8 enzyme (data not shown). The Km value for Trx of E. coli at a fixed concentration of 0.1 mM H2O2 was 11.5 ± 1.5 µM, while the Km value for H2O2 at a fixed concentration of 4 µM Trx was 65.0 ± 5.4 µM.  The steady-state transcripts of AtGPX1–AtGPX8 were detected in the leaves of Arabidopsis plants grown for 2 weeks under normal growth conditions (Fig. 2). Since the expression of several plant GPX genes was up-regulated under various stressful conditions (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION), we analyzed the transcript level of AtGPX8 as well as the other AtGPXs in response to HL (1,200 µE m−2 s−1) stress or PQ (50 µM) treatment under normal light (100 µE m−2 s−1) (Fig. 3A). The transcript levels of AtGPX8 were markedly increased and peaked at 1 and 3 h, respectively, after HL stress and PQ treatment. Similarly, the levels of AtGPX2, AtGPX5 and AtGPX7 transcripts were increased by stressful conditions. On the other hand, the levels of AtGPX3, AtGPX4 and AtGPX6 were transiently or continuously decreased under HL stress and PQ treatment. In agreement with the change in the transcript level, the levels of AtGPX8 protein were increased approximately 3- and 2-fold at 3 h after PQ treatment and at 1 h after HL stress, respectively (Fig. 3B).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] As judged by TargetP (www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/) to predict the subcellular localization, there was no transit peptide in the deduced amino acid sequence of AtGPX8, suggesting its cytosolic localization. To verify the subcellular distribution of AtGPX8, the full-length AtGPX8 protein fused to sGFP (synthetic green ﬂuorescent protein) at the N-terminus using the Gateway expression vector, pGWB6 (pGWB6/35S:AtGPX8) was transiently expressed in onion epidermal cells. The transgenic cells introducing pBI121/35S:GFP were used as a control for the localization of GFP. The sGFP–AtGPX8 fusion protein was distributed in both the nucleus [detected by 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) staining] and cytoplasm of the onion epidermal cells (Fig. 4).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Next, we determined the subcellular localization of AtGPX8 in the nuclei isolated from leaves of Arabidopsis plants by Percoll gradient fractionation and Western blotting using the AtGPX8 antibody (Fig. 5). We used antibodies against histone H3 and APX1 as markers for the nucleus and the cytosol, respectively. Although a large amount of the AtGPX8 protein was detected in the crude extract and the supernatant containing cytosolic, chloroplastic and mitochondrial fractions, the protein was also detected in the precipitate containing the nuclear fraction (Fig. 5).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We isolated and characterized the knockout Arabidopsis plants for AtGPX8 by a T-DNA insertion in the genes (KO-gpx8: SALK_127691) from the SIGnAL project (signal.salk.edu/tabout.html). Sequencing of the T-DNA insertion sites of KO-gpx8 revealed the T-DNA insertion in the fifth exon of the AtGPX8 gene (At1G63460) (Fig. 6A). By quantitative reverse transcription–PCR (RT–PCR) analysis, the expression of AtGPX8 could not be detected in the KO-gpx8 plants (Fig. 6B). Subsequently, Western blot analysis revealed that the AtGPX8 protein of which the molecular weight was estimated to be 19.1 kDa was not present in the KO-gpx8 plants (Fig. 6C). Next we generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing AtGPX8 under the control of the Cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter and obtained its homozygous T3 generations. By semi-quantitative RT–PCR analysis, the expression level of AtGPX8 was found to be approximately 1.6-fold higher in Ox-AtGPX8-9-1 than in the wild-type plants (Fig. 6B). The AtGPX8 protein in the Ox-AtGPX8-9-1 plants increased to approximately 3-fold higher than those of the wild-type plants (Fig. 6C).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The KO-gpx8 and Ox-AtGPX8-9-1 plants showed phenotypes similar to the wild-type plants on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium or in soil throughout the growth period under normal conditions (data not shown). To evaluate the effect of disruption or overexpression of AtGPX8 on oxidative stress tolerance, we checked the tolerance of KO-gpx8 and Ox-AtGPX8-9-1 plants to oxidative stress caused by PQ treatments (Fig. 7). As judged by the phenotypes and fresh weight, the KO-gpx8 and Ox-AtGPX8-9-1 plants showed decreased and increased tolerance, respectively, to PQ treatments compared with the wild-type plants (Fig. 7A, B). The root growth of KO-gpx8 plants on MS plates containing PQ was severely inhibited compared with that of the wild-type plants (Fig. 7C). On the other hand, the inhibition of root growth of the Ox-AtGPX8-9-1 plants was significantly suppressed.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] A protein gel blot assay of oxidized proteins (carbonyl groups on proteins) was carried out to assess oxidative damage in the cells of KO-gpx8 and Ox-AtGPX8-9-1 plants under HL and PQ stress conditions (Fig. 8). The levels of oxidized proteins in the extracts from the KO-gpx8 and Ox-AtGPX8-9-1 plants were higher and lower, respectively, compared with those of wild-type plants.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] ROS can cause DNA strand breaks or modiﬁcation to deoxyribose sugar and bases (CITATION). Formation of 8-oxo-7,8-dihydro-2′-(deoxy)guanosine (8-oxo-dG) is the most characteristic features of DNA oxidation (CITATION). Thus the involvement of AtGPX8 in the protection from oxidative DNA damage in cells of Arabidopsis plants was investigated by determining 8-oxo-dG contents in the DNA (CITATION). Considering that nuclear DNA constitutes the vast majority of DNA isolated from the cells, the levels of 8-oxo-dG detected here reflect mainly a status of nuclear DNA oxidation. The levels of 8-oxo-dG in the wild-type plants were increased by PQ treatment (Fig. 9). In the KO-gpx8 mutants, 8-oxo-dG was accumulated more than in the wild-type plants, even under normal conditions, and was markedly increased by PQ treatment. On the other hand, the accumulation of 8-oxo-dG in the Ox-AtGPX8-9-1 plants was significantly suppressed under PQ treatment.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia was used in this study. For seed germination, all seeds were sterilized and sown on MS medium plus 3% sucrose and kept for 2 d at 4°C in the dark to break dormancy. Then, the plates were incubated in growth chambers at 22 ± 2°C with a 16 h light photoperiod (of approximately 50–100 µE m−2 s−1 illumination) for 2 weeks. The knockout Arabidopsis lines containing a T-DNA insert in AtGPX8 (KO-gpx8: SALK_127691) were obtained through the Salk Institute Genomic Analysis Laboratory (http://signal.salk.edu/) from the ABRC (Ohio State University) as pure homozygous lines. To confirm the T-DNA insertion lines as homozygous, RT–PCR was performed with the RNA prepared from the KO-gpx8 plants using gene-specific primers for AtGPX8 (forward primer, 5′-CATATGGCGACGAAGGAACCAGA-3′ and reverse primer, 5′-GGATCCTCAGGAGATATTCAGAAGAT-3′). Two-week-old plants were subject to oxidative stresses, treatment with PQ and HL. PQ treatment was achieved by spraying with 50 µM PQ under a light intensity of 100 µE m−2 s−1. HL stress was accomplished by exposure to light illumination at 1,200 µE m−2 s−1. Plants were collected, frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at −80°C until their respective analysis. For assay of root growth under PQ treatment, 7-day-old seedlings were placed on MS plates (1.5% agarose) containing 1.0 µM PQ. Plates were maintained vertically under normal conditions. Root length was scored at 14 d after the seedlings were transferred to the plates. The quantitative RT–PCR analysis was performed according to CITATION. Total RNA was prepared from the rosette leaves of Arabidopsis seedlings (1.0 g FW) using Sepasol®-RNA I (Nacalai tesque). To eliminate any DNA, total RNA was treated with DNase I (TAKARA). First-strand cDNA was synthesized using ReverTra Ace (reverse transcriptase; Toyobo) with an oligo(dT)20 primer according to the manufacturer’s protocol. Primer pairs for the quantitative RT–PCR were designed using Primer Express™ software (Applied Biosystems), and the primer sequences are as follows: AtGPX1 (forward primer, 5′-GAGTGAGCATATAGAGACTGATGGTTAAAGT-3′ and reverse primer, 5′-CGCAAATTATTAAGCGATTAGTACAACT-3′), AtGPX2 (5′-GATCTTAGAATCATCAACATTGCAAACT-3′ and 5′-TGAGGTTTGTTTGAACGAGAGTCA-3′), AtGPX3 (5′-GCTATTGGCATCTGCTTGAACATAT-3′ and 5′-TTTCATTCTCAGTCTCAGACATGTTTG-3′), AtGPX4 (5′-ACACCGCTATCAATCGAGAAAGAC-3′ and 5′-CAAAATTAACCGTGATTGTTAATTGG-3′), AtGPX5 (5′-CATACTCTCGGTCATGCAGTCAAG-3′ and 5′-ACACATAAGATGAATACAAGGCCCATA-3′), AtGPX6 (5′-TGTAGTAAGCTGAGTTCGTGAGTGTGT-3′ and 5′-GATTATTACATAGTTTGGCCGCTAAAAA-3′), AtGPX7 (5′-GCTGGTGGTTTCCTTGGTGAT-3′ and 5′-CTCTCGACAACTTTGCCCTTTTT-3′), AtGPX8 (5′-GATGAAGCTTTGTTGCTGAATCG-3′ and 5′-TCCAAGTCAATGTCATGGCTCTT-3′) and Actin2 (5′- GGCAAGTCATCACGATTGG-3′ and 5′-CAGCTTCCATTCCCACAAAC-3′). The quantitative RT–PCR was performed using an Applied Biosystems 7300 Real Time PCR System with the SYBR Premix Ex Taq (TAKARA). The level of Actin2 mRNA, set to 100%, was used as an internal standard in all experiments. The analysis was repeated at least three times for cDNA prepared for three batches of plants. Total RNA was extracted from 15-day-old Arabidopsis seedlings as described previously (CITATION). First-strand cDNA was synthesized using oligo(dT)20 primer and ReverTra Ace (reverse transcriptase; Toyobo) with total RNA prepared from the wild-type Arabidopsis plants as a template. Full-length cDNA encoding mature AtGPX8 protein was amplified by RT–PCR with chimeric primers (AtGPX8-F, 5′-CATATGGCGACGAAGGAACCAGA-3′; and AtGPX8-R, 5′-GGATCCTCAGGAGATATTCAGAAGAT-3′) introducing the NdeI or BamHI sites (bold sequences). The PCR product was electrophoresed using a 1% agarose gel, purified from the gel using a GFXTM PCR Gel Band Purification kit (GE Healthcare), ligated into pT7 vector (Novagen, EMD Bioscience Inc.) and sequenced using the dideoxy chain terminator method with an automatic DNA sequencer (ABI PRISM® 310 Genetic Analyzer; Applied Biosystems). The NdeI–BamHI fragment was obtained and subsequently ligated into the pColdII vector (TAKARA) giving an in-frame fusion with His-tag. After confirming the sequence using the same procedure mentioned above, E. coli DH5α cells were transformed and used for protein expression. Expression plasmids for AtGPX1, AtGPX2 and AtGPX5 were constructed previously using the same system (pColdII) as for AtGPX8 (CITATION). Escherichia coli DH5α cells harboring pColdII/AtGPX1, AtGPX2, AtGPX5 and AtGPX8 were grown in 50 ml of LB medium, containing 50 µg ml−1 ampicillin at 37°C until the OD600 of the culture was between 0.4 and 0.6. Cell cultures were kept for 30 min at 16°C without shaking and the expression of fusion protein was induced by the addition of 0.4 mM isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG). Cells were further incubated for 24 h at 16°C with shaking. Cells were harvested by centrifugation at 6,000×g for 10 min at 4°C, resuspended in 100 ml of Tris–HCl buffer, pH 8.0, containing 0.5 M NaCl and 5 mM imidazole, and disrupted by sonication at 10 kHz for a total of 10 min (20 intervals of 20 s each). Soluble proteins were collected by centrifugation at 10,000×g for 15 min at 4°C and purified using a HiTrap™ chelating HP column (Amersham Biosciences) according to the manufacturer’s protocol. Protein content was determined according to the method of CITATION. The GPX activity was assayed spectrophotometrically in the presence of glutathione reductase (GR), which catalyzes the reduction of oxidized GSH formed by GPX, according to CITATION. The reaction mixture contained 100 mM Tris–HCl, pH 8.2, 1 mM GSH, 0.4 mM NADPH, 0.2 mM H2O2, 1 U of GR, and the enzyme in a total volume of 1 ml. The activity was measured as the decrease in absorbance at 340 nm (ε = 6.22 mM−1 cm−1) due to oxidation of NADPH at 37°C. The reduction of hydroperoxides was measured in the same assay mixture, except for the replacement of H2O2 with solution that contains 0.2 mM CumOOH, t-buthylhydroperoxide, linoleic acid hydroperoxide or linolenic acid hydroperoxide, and 0.1% Triton X-100. Trx-dependent reduction activity was measured in a manner similar to that described previously (CITATION). The GSH and GR in the reaction mixture mentioned above were replaced with E. coli Trx (4 µM) and Trx reductase (0.3 U ml−1). Polyclonal mouse antibody against AtGPX8 (anti-AtGPX8) was prepared using the purified His-tagged recombinant AtGPX8 protein. Mice were injected with 4 µg of the protein emulsified with Freund’s complete adjuvant followed by three subcutaneous injections. After bleeding, the antisera were separated from blood. Arabidopsis plants were ground to a fine powder in liquid nitrogen and then homogenized with extraction buffer containing 100 mM Tris–HCl, pH 7.5, 20% (v/v) glycerol and 1 mM EDTA. The crude E. coli extract was disrupted by sonication at 10 Hz for a total of 10 min (20 intervals of 20 s each). The homogenates were centrifuged at 10,000×g for 10 min at 4°C, SDS loading buffer [150 mM Tris–HCl, pH 6.8, 4% (w/v) SDS and 10% (v/v) 2-mercaptoethanol] was added and then they were boiled for 10 min. Appropriate amounts of the homogenates and the recombinant AtGPXs were subjected to SDS–PAGE [15% (w/v) polyacrylamide gel] analysis. For Western blot analysis, the gels were transferred to polyvinylidene difluoride (PVDF) membranes (Bio-Rad) using an electroblot apparatus (model 200/2.0, Bio-Rad) at 13 V for 1 h. The membrane was treated with the polyclonal antibody raised against AtGPX8 or His-tag (Novagen). The membrane was visualized with horseradish peroxidase-conjugated goat anti-mouse IgG (Bio-Rad). The vectors for the generation of the GFP fusion proteins were constructed using GATEWAY cloning technology (Invitrogen). The cDNA encoding the open reading frame of AtGPX8 was cloned into the donor vector, pDONR221, and then re-cloned into the destination vector, pGWB6, in which the AtGPX8 protein was fused with GFP at its N-terminus, and was expressed under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. The speciﬁc primers with attB1 and attB2 sequences were as follows: attB1-AtGPX8 (5′-AAAAAGCAGGCTACATGGCGACGAAGGAA-3′) and attB2-AtGPX8 (5′-AGAAAGCTGGGTTGGAGATATTCAGAAGATTCT-3′). PCR and in vitro BP and LR recombination reactions were carried out according to the manufacturer’s instructions (Invitrogen). The resulting plasmid was co-bombarded with gold particles (Bio-Rad) into onion epidermal cell layers. After incubation at 25°C for 48 h in darkness, the green (GFP) and blue (DAPI) fluorescence images were obtained with a fluorescence microscope (BZ-9000, Keyence). The nuclei were isolated from 10 g of the leaves of wild-type Arabidopsis plants using a Plant Nuclei Isolation/Extraction Kit (CelLytic™ PN, Sigma). Cell lysis, isolation of nuclei and nuclear protein extraction were performed according to the manufacturer’s instructions. After the centrifugation of crude extracts on 60% Percoll and 2.3 M sucrose solution, the supernatant containing cytosolic, chloroplastic and mitochondrial fractions and the precipitate (nuclear fraction) were used for a Western blotting analysis using antibodies against histone H3 (Abcam) and APX1 (CITATION) as markers for the nucleus and the cytosol, respectively. The cDNA encoding the open reading frame of AtGPX8 was amplified by PCR from an Arabidopsis cDNA pool as a template using the following primer pairs: forward primer 5′-CATATGGCGACGAAGGAACCAGA-3′ and reverse primer 5′-GGATCCTCAGGAGATATTCAGAAGAT-3′. The forward primer contains an NdeI restriction site, and the reverse primer contains a BamHI restriction site (bold sequences). The PCR fragment of AtGPX8 was first cloned into pT7 vector, cut by NdeI and BamHI, and ligated into plant binary vector, pRI101-AN, in which the cDNA was placed downstream of the CaMV 35S promoter and a 5′-non-coding region of the Arabidopsis alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) gene as a translational enhancer. The recombinant plasmid was introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58 by electroporation, and then Arabidopsis plants were transformed by Agrobacterium using the vacuum infiltration method as previously described (CITATION). Transformants (T1) plants were selected on MS agar plates containing 50 mg l−1 kanamycin and self-fertilized. The T3 seeds obtained were used for subsequent experiments. Oxidized proteins were detected using a protein gel blot assay with an OxyBlot protein oxidation kit (Chemicon International) according to CITATION. Measurement of 8-oxo-dG in genomic DNA was carried out according to CITATION with some modifications. Genomic DNA extracted from the leaves of Arabidopsis plants was digested with nuclease P1 (Sigma-Aldrich Japan) and alkaline phosphatase (TAKARA). The amounts of deoxyguanosine (dG) and 8-oxo-dG in the DNA samples were analyzed using an HPLC–electrochemical detector (ECD) system: column, Luna 5µ C18 column (4.6×250 mm, Phenomenex); UV absorbance, 290 nm (dG); ECD, 500 mV (8-oxo-G).
