!~ABS~! A highly enriched fraction of the transcriptionally active chromosome from chloroplasts of spinach (Spinacia oleracea) was analyzed by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometry to identify proteins involved in structuring of the nucleoid core. Among such plastid nucleoid-associated candidate proteins a 12-kD SWIB (SWI/SNF complex B) domain–containing protein was identified. It belongs to a subgroup of low molecular mass SWIB domain proteins, which in Arabidopsis thaliana has six members (SWIB-1 to SWIB-6) with predictions for localization in the two DNA-containing organelles. Green/red fluorescent protein fusions of four of them were shown to be targeted to chloroplasts, where they colocalize with each other as well as with the plastid envelope DNA binding protein in structures corresponding to plastid nucleoids. For SWIB-6 and SWIB-4, a second localization in mitochondria and nucleus, respectively, could be observed. SWIB-4 has a histone H1 motif next to the SWIB domain and was shown to bind to DNA. Moreover, the recombinant SWIB-4 protein was shown to induce compaction and condensation of nucleoids and to functionally complement a mutant of Escherichia coli lacking the histone-like nucleoid structuring protein H-NS.
!~RES~! To identify novel proteins involved in shaping of chloroplast nucleoids, a highly enriched fraction of the TAC from spinach chloroplasts was used for proteome analysis. For our studies, we used chloroplasts isolated from spinach leaves, which provide excellent material for biochemical studies requiring highly purified and functional organelles (CITATION; CITATION) that cannot easily be prepared from Arabidopsis (CITATION). To obtain a highly enriched fraction (TAC-II), a conventional TAC fraction (TAC-I) prepared from 20 kg of spinach leaves was subjected to a second round of gel filtration resulting in TAC-II (Figure 1A). The protein compositions of both fractions were analyzed by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE). For isoelectric focusing, pH gradients from 3 to 10 were chosen. After second-dimension denaturing gel electrophoresis, proteins were visualized by staining with Coomassie blue (Figures 1B and 1C). Image analysis allowed the detection of 132 spots on the 2-DE gel of TAC-I, whereas on the 2-DE gel of TAC-II, only 85 protein spots were clearly discernible (Figure 1D). These 85 proteins were manually excised from the gel and digested with trypsin (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). By means of mass spectrometry, 53 TAC-II proteins with protein scores of 60 or more and individual peptide scores of 39 or more could be identified (see Supplemental Data Set 1 online). Thirteen of them were identified by homology with protein sequences of spinach, 15 by homologies with protein sequences from Arabidopsis, and 14 by homology with sequences from rice (Oryza sativa), and single proteins were identified by homologies with other plant species (see Supplemental Data Set 1 online). Despite precipitation with protamine sulfate and the second round of gel filtration used for preparation of TAC-II (CITATION), the fraction contains several contaminants as it has previously been reported for other preparations enriched in nucleoid-associated proteins (CITATION; CITATION). For example, the two polygalacturonases (spots 7 and 51) are likely contaminants. These proteins are synthesized as precursors at the endoplasmic reticulum from where they are transported in vesicles to their destinations in the plasma membrane and cell wall. It is likely that these proteins in the TAC fraction are derived from the endoplasmic reticulum, which is known to be physically tightly associated with chloroplast envelope membranes (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Among the identified proteins in TAC-II are several putative nucleoid core components with putative roles in transcription, replication, maintenance, and structuring of DNA. As expected, subunits of the plastid-encoded RNA polymerase, namely, RpoC1 (spot 13) and RpoC2 (spot 18), were detected in TAC-II. The RpoA subunit was identified with a score under 60 and therefore was not included in Supplemental Data Set 1 online. Six of the identified TAC proteins are putative architectural ptNAPs with DNA binding properties that are able to alter the DNA compaction through bending, wrapping, or bridging (Table 1; see Supplemental Data Set 1 online, spots 10, 17, 32, 37, 39, and 53). Previous biochemical investigations revealed low molecular mass DNA binding proteins in nucleoid fractions, which were assigned as candidates for functional replacement of the missing HU-like proteins in plants (CITATION). Hitherto, an identification of such basic low molecular mass proteins was not possible. Purification of the TAC fraction from spinach chloroplasts enabled the identification of a SWIB domain protein in spot 37 of the 2-DE gel (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). The peptide masses determined for the spinach protein matched with a 12-kD SWIB domain–containing protein encoded by the At2g35605 gene (Table 1). The low molecular mass SWIB domain protein was found to have a high Lys content and a high isoelectric point, thereby resembling bacterial NAP (CITATION) (Table 1). The smallest putative ptNAP identified in spot 37 belongs to the family of SWIB domain proteins that has 20 members in Arabidopsis as identified by The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR; www.arabidopsis.org) database analyses (Figure 2A). Phylogenetic analysis with MEGA5 software (CITATION) revealed that based on their amino acid sequences, plant SWIB proteins can be subdivided into four major groups (Figure 2A; see Supplemental Data Set 2 online). The two group 4 proteins with a molecular mass of ∼50 kD have high similarity with the yeast SWP73 protein (CITATION), which is a component of the SWI/SNF complex with a functional role in transcriptional activation by modulation of the chromatin structure (CITATION). Proteins of groups 2 and 3 have, in addition to the SWIB domain, other domains, such as Really Interesting New Gene, zinc-finger, plus-3, and GYF (for Gly-Tyr-Phe) or the DEK domain. All members of these two groups are predicted to be involved in histone modification and regulation of transcription in the nucleus (TAIR) (CITATION). The 12-kD SWIB domain protein found in TAC-II belongs to group 1, consisting of so-called stand-alone SWIB domain proteins, where the SWIB domain is found as an isolated protein and is not part of a larger protein. In prokaryotes, such SWIB domain proteins were found exclusively in Chlamydia, which as parasitic bacteria probably have acquired the SWIB domain gene from a mammalian host (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] The other TAC-II proteins possessing DNA binding domains have molecular masses higher than 20 kD (Table 1). The protein identified in spot 32 is a member of the APETALA2 (AP2) subfamily of the AP2/EREBP (for ethylene-responsive element binding proteins) family of transcription factors unique to plants (CITATION). The AP2/EREBP domain consists of 60 to 70 amino acids and is involved in binding to DNA (CITATION). In silico analyses predicted localization for some members of the AP2/EREBP subfamily in organelles (CITATION). Moreover, for the At2g44940 protein, a dual targeting to chloroplasts and nucleus could be shown (CITATION). The protein identified in spot 10 represents a structural maintenance of chromosomes (SMC) protein. SMC proteins belong to a ubiquitous protein family present in almost all prokaryotic and eukaryotic organisms and have functions in chromosome condensation, segregation, cohesion, and DNA recombination and repair (CITATION). In E. coli, SMC proteins were shown to induce negative supercoiling of DNA in vivo, indicating their involvement in organization and compaction of nucleoids (CITATION). An SMC (At-SMC1) as well as an armadillo/β-catenin protein were previously identified in the proteome of chloroplasts from Arabidopsis (CITATION; CITATION). The protein identified in spot 17 has similarity in sequence with the Arabidopsis armadillo/β-catenin protein. Armadillo repeat proteins form a large group of 108 proteins in Arabidopsis. Two further putative ptNAPs identified in TAC-II belong to the family of the MYB/SANT domain transcription factors having a helix-turn-helix (HTH) DNA binding domain (spots 39 and 53). Animal and fungal proteins containing SANT domains (for SWI3, ADA2, N-Cor, TFIIB) were found to be associated with histone modifying enzymes and ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling proteins (CITATION; CITATION). Proteome analysis of TAC-II allowed identification of a 12-kD SWIB domain protein. Masses of peptides obtained by trypsin digestion fitted best to the 12-kD SWIB-6 protein, which has the lowest molecular mass of the six members of group 1 (Figure 2). All SWIB proteins designated to this group are predicted to be targeted to either chloroplasts or mitochondria (TargetP; Figure 2B) (CITATION). To investigate the subcellular localization of the proteins, GFP fusion constructs were prepared and employed for transient transformation assays with tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) protoplasts. Microscopy inspections revealed that apart from SWIB-1, which was observed in the cytoplasm when fused to GFP, GFP fusion proteins of all group 1 SWIBs were targeted to chloroplasts (SWIB-2, SWIB-3, and SWIB-4), to mitochondria (SWIB-5), or to both organelles (SWIB-6) (Figure 3). All GFP chimeric proteins located in chloroplasts showed punctuate patterns resembling the distribution of nucleoids visualized by the PEND:GFP construct (CITATION) on the red background of the chlorophyll autofluorescence (Figure 3). The mitochondrial localization of SWIB-5:GFP and SWIB-6:GFP proteins could be confirmed by labeling with MitoTracker Orange (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). As a control a construct encoding GFP alone is shown (Figure 3). [[FIGURE]] To investigate whether the four chloroplast-located SWIB domain proteins (SWIB-2, SWIB-3, SWIB-4, and SWIB-6) might be components of the same subplastidial structures, their potential colocalization was examined by simultaneous transformation of protoplasts with GFP and red fluorescent protein (RFP) fusion constructs. Microscopy analyses showed that SWIB-2:GFP colocalized with SWIB-4:RFP, SWIB-3:GFP with SWIB-6:RFP, and SWIB-4:GFP with SWIB-6:RFP (Figure 4A). In all four GFP/RFP combinations tested, fluorescence signals frequently overlapped, indicating an association of all four SWIB proteins with the same subplastidial structures. To examine whether these structures could represent nucleoids, SWIB-4:GFP and SWIB-6:GFP constructs were transiently cotransformed with a PEND:dsRED construct in tobacco protoplasts. The PEND protein is known to bind to plastid DNA and to be suited for visualization of plastid nucleoids (CITATION). The overlay of green and red fluorescence signals within the chloroplasts revealed that both SWIB-4 and SWIB-6 colocalize with the PEND protein (Figure 4A). [[FIGURE]] The amino acid sequences of the four SWIB domain proteins targeted to chloroplast nucleoids have high similarity due to the highly conserved SWIB domain (Figure 4B). One of the masses determined by mass spectrometry belongs to a theoretical peptide derived from the SWIB domain of SWIB-6 as revealed by theoretical digestion with trypsin using the program ExPASy (Expert Protein Analysis System; http://www.expasy.ch/; CITATION). Masses of five further peptides could correspond to peptides obtained by partial digestion of SWIB-6 or to modified peptides. When the theoretical masses of peptides obtained by digestion with trypsin from the four different proteins were compared, it became obvious that SWIB-2 and SWIB-3 are very similar sharing four identical peptides with masses above 500 D. SWIB-4 and SWIB-6 were found to share two identical peptides with masses above 500 D but not to share peptides with SWIB-2 and SWIB-3. Besides the SWIB domain, SWIB-2, -3, and -4 have low compositional complexity regions (LCRs) in their sequences (Figure 4B). So far no universal function for such LCRs could be elucidated (CITATION). The LCR region (amino acids 31 to 59; Figure 4B) at the N terminus of the SWIB-4 protein shows high similarity to a part of the C-terminal domain of the histone H1 of tobacco (see Supplemental Figure 3A online). Moreover, in silico analysis revealed that this region of SWIB-4, which is extremely rich in Lys, is highly similar to an analogous region found at the N terminus of the CND41 (for chloroplast nucleoid DNA binding protein 41 kD) protein from tobacco (see Supplemental Figure 3A online) that was described to function as a DNA binding domain (CITATION; CITATION). This part of the SWIB-4 protein might represent a domain for binding to DNA. No such motifs could be found in the sequences of SWIB-2, -3, and -6, respectively. For immunological analyses, the peptide sequence KSDSPAKKTPRSTG representing the residues 50 to 63 of SWIB-4 was chosen for production of a SWIB-4–specific antibody (Figure 4B). Protein fractions derived from spinach chloroplasts and subfractions thereof were analyzed by immunoblotting. The predominant form of the protein in chloroplasts had a molecular mass of 17 kD (Figure 5), which is consistent with the molecular mass of the processed form of the in vitro translation product imported into chloroplasts (see Supplemental Figure 3B online). A second higher molecular mass form of the protein could result from posttranslational modification (Figure 5A). Two plastidial and two higher molecular mass nuclear forms of the SWIB-4 protein also could be detected in protein fractions isolated from chloroplasts and nuclei of Arabidopsis leaves (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). [[FIGURE]] We further tested the presence of SWIB-4 in TAC-I and TAC-II. When TAC-I and TAC-II fractions, having the same amount of protein, were analyzed, the level of immunoreactive protein detected by the SWIB-4 antibody was higher in TAC-II than in TAC-I, indicating an enrichment of the SWIB-4 protein during purification of TAC. In comparison, the relative level of the nucleoid-associated protein MFP1 decreased during purification of TAC-I as shown previously with corresponding fractions from barley chloroplasts (CITATION). SWIB-4 binds to DNA when it is not altered by posttranslational modification because TAC fractions contained only the lower molecular mass form of SWIB-4 (Figure 5A). Next, we examined whether SWIB-4 in TAC-II binds to DNA. For this purpose, TAC-II proteins after transfer onto nitrocellulose membranes were renatured. By incubation with a radiolabeled 16S rDNA probe, three low molecular mass protein bands were detected (Figure 5B, lane 1). When the membrane prior to incubation with DNA was incubated with the SWIB-4 antibody, the intensity of the band corresponding to a DNA binding protein of ∼17 kD was diminished (Figure 5B, lane 2). This result indicates that SWIB-4 might represent one of the low molecular mass DNA binding proteins of TAC fractions detected previously (CITATION). To investigate whether SWIB-4 might have an architectural function in nucleoids, we overexpressed the gene encoding SWIB-4 in E. coli. DNA staining with 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) showed that after induction with isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG), cells accumulating the recombinant SWIB-4 protein had highly condensed nucleoids, while control cells showed a uniform distribution of DNA (Figure 6A). Accumulation of SWIB-4 (Figure 6B) coincided with growth arrest of the cells for several hours shortly after addition of IPTG (Figure 6C). A similar effect on growth of E. coli cells and compaction of nucleoids had been observed previously when the abundant histone-like protein H-NS was overproduced (CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To investigate whether SWIB-4 could be a functional analog of an abundant histone-like protein termed H-NS, we aimed at complementation of an E. coli mutant lacking this NAP (CITATION; CITATION). The H-NS protein was shown to induce compaction of nucleoids and to affect expression of ∼5% of the E. coli genes (CITATION). Among the genes repressed by H-NS is the cryptic β-glucoside (bgl) operon, which encodes all gene products necessary for uptake and fermentation of the aryl-β,d-glucosides, such as salicin or arbutin (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Δhns mutant cells that can metabolize salicin appear as red colonies on salicin-containing indicator plates, whereas colonies unable to ferment salicin are colorless (CITATION). To test whether the Arabidopsis SWIB-4 gene can functionally substitute for the E. coli hns gene, cells of the Δhns mutant strain were transformed with the pQE30 plasmid containing SWIB-4. After 2 d of growth on indicator plates, colonies of the hns mutant and the hns mutant transformed with pQE30 plasmid were red (Figure 6D), whereas colonies of the Δhns mutant strain transformed with a control pQE30+SWIB-4 plasmid stayed colorless as colonies of the wild type (Figure 6D). This result showed that SWIB-4 in vivo can functionally replace the E. coli H-NS protein. The T-DNA insertion mutants so far available have insertions either in 5′ untranslated region (swib-4-1 and -2) or in the intron (swib-4-3) of the SWIB-4 gene (see Supplemental Figure 5A and Supplemental Table 1 online). The 20-fold to fivefold enhanced transcript levels in some of the mutants were found to coincide with retarded postgermination development of seedlings (see Supplemental Figures 5B and 5C online).
!~MM~! Spinach (Spinacia oleracea cv Deutscher Frisee) leaves used for chloroplast preparation were purchased from the local market. Tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum cv Xanthi) plants used for protoplast transformation were grown for 5 to 6 weeks on sterilized Murashige and Skoog medium at 24°C with a 16-h photoperiod. For isolation of TAC fractions, chloroplasts were prepared from spinach leaves by an established procedure (CITATION). TAC extracts from spinach chloroplasts were prepared as described previously (CITATION). To examine the transcriptional activity, aliquots of TAC fractions were incubated at 30°C with radioactively labeled α-32-UTP (Hartmann Analytic) as described (CITATION). Prior to 2-DE, TAC protein fractions were treated with DNase I and RNase A (MBI Fermentas) and precipitated with chloroform/methanol following the protocol of Wessel and Flügge (1984). Protein concentration was estimated with the Plus One 2D-Quant Kit (GE Healthcare). 2-DE and protein staining were performed according to CITATION, with the following modifications: 50 µg of TAC proteins were loaded on immobilized pH gradient dry gel strips (7 cm, pH gradient 3 to 10; GE Healthcare). The second dimension was performed on 11.25% (w/v) polyacrylamide gels containing 0.1% (w/v) of SDS. Separated proteins were stained with colloidal Coomassie Brilliant Blue (Gel Code Blue; Thermo Fisher Scientific). Protein spots were manually excised and trypsin digested (Porcine Sequencing Grade; Promega) as described (CITATION). Acquisition of peptide mass fingerprint data and corresponding LIFT spectra was performed using an ultrafleXtreme matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight device (Bruker Daltonics) equipped with a Smartbeam-II laser with a repetition rate of 1000 Hz. The spectra were calibrated using external calibration and subsequent internal mass correction. For databank searching, Biotools 3.2 software (Bruker Daltonics) with the implemented MASCOT search engine (Matrix Science) was used, searching for Viridiplantae in the nonredundant National Center for Biotechnology Information database (26/07/2010, Green Plants 284943 sequences). Search parameters were as follows: monoisotopic mass accuracy; 50 to 100 ppm tolerance; fragment tolerance of 0.3 D; missed cleavages 1; and the allowed variable modifications were oxidation (Met), propionamide (Cys), and carbamidomethyl (Cys). The amino acid sequences of 20 Arabidopsis SWIB domain–containing proteins were obtained from TAIR (www.arabidopsis.org). The multiple sequence alignment was performed with ClustalW (CITATION) and is available as Supplemental Data Set 1 online. The phylogenetic tree was constructed using MEGA5 software (CITATION) based on the neighbor-joining method (CITATION) with parameters of Poisson correction model, complete deletion of the gaps, and 1000 bootstrap replicates. The tree is drawn to scale, with branch lengths in the same units as those of the evolutionary distances used to infer the phylogenetic tree. For preparation of GFP constructs, the complete coding sequences of the At2g14880, At4g34290, At3g03590, and At2g356050 genes were amplified from Arabidopsis total cDNA by iProof High-Fidelity DNA polymerase (Bio-Rad) using the following specific forward and reverse primers: At3g03590for, 5′-caccatgtcttccgttgca-3′; At3g03590rev, 5′-agcagtcttcacaaagtgc-3′; At2g14880for, 5′-caccatggcggtttcttct-3′; At2g14880rev, 5′-gaggaagtgaggaccgat-3′; At4g34290for, 5′-caccatggctctttcttctg-3′; At4g34290rev, 5′-aaagtgaggaccaatgag-3′; At2g35605for, 5′-caccatgtcgagggttttc-3′; and At2g35605rev, 5′-agcagacttaggaaaatgttg-3′. The forward primers contained a CACC overhang for cloning into pENTR/D/TOPO vector (Invitrogen). pENTR plasmids encoding the particular SWIB genes were used for site-specific recombination into binary Gateway expression vector pB7FWG2,0 or pB7RWG2 (Invitrogen). The PEND:GFP and PEND:dsRED constructs were prepared as described (CITATION; CITATION). As a control, the coding sequence for the green fluorescent protein was cloned into the pBluescript vector. All constructs were under control of the 35S cauliflower mosaic virus promoter. Tobacco protoplasts used for transient transformation assay were prepared as described (CITATION). Polyethylene glycol–mediated transformation was performed as described (CITATION). Briefly, 50 µg of plasmid DNA was gently mixed with 2 × 106 protoplasts and incubated in 40% (w/v) polyethylene glycol 1500 (Merck). In colocalization experiments, protoplasts were transformed with two plasmids simultaneously. After 24 h incubation, protoplasts were inspected by fluorescence microscopy (Leica TCS SP5; Leica Microsystems). For detection of GFP fluorescence and chlorophyll autofluorescence, the samples have been excited by the 488- and 458-nm lines of an argon laser, respectively. For extraction of total protein fractions, spinach leaves were ground in liquid nitrogen. Protein concentrations were determined using Roti-Nanoquant according to the manufacturer’s instructions (Roth) based on the method of CITATION. For SDS-PAGE, the buffer system of CITATION was used. For an efficient separation of proteins having low molecular masses, 16% (w/v) polyacrylamide gels were used and proteins were blotted onto nitrocellulose (Schleicher and Schuell). For immunoblot analysis, the polyclonal anti SWIB-4 antiserum was diluted 1:1000 with buffer consisting of 50 mM Tris/HCl, pH 7.4, and 150 mM NaCl. The antibody was directed toward the peptide KSDSPKKTPRSTG (residues 50 to 63 of the protein) and was raised in rabbits by Biogenes. Further primary antibodies used in our study were directed toward cytochrome b559 apoprotein A (PsbE; CITATION), large subunit of ribulose-1,5-bis-phosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (RbcL; Agrisera), and MFP1 (CITATION). DNA binding assays with TAC proteins were performed as described (CITATION) with minor modifications. About 5 µg of total TAC proteins from spinach were separated under denaturing conditions in 14% (w/v) polyacrylamide gels (CITATION) and subsequently transferred onto a nitrocellulose membrane employing a transfer buffer consisting of 50 mM NaCl, 2 mM EDTA, 0.1 mM DTT, and 10 mM Tris/HCl, pH 7.0. Renaturation of the proteins took place overnight in renaturation buffer consisting of 2 mM EDTA, 10 mM Tris/HCl, pH 7.0, 0.02% BSA, 1% (w/v) low-fat milk powder, and 0.02% (w/v) polyvinylpyrrolidone. The membrane was cut into two halves, and one half was incubated with the SWIB-4–specific antibody diluted 1:50 with buffer consisting of 50 mM Tris/HCl, pH 7.4, and 150 mM NaCl. The other half of the membrane was incubated with the buffer only. After washing in transfer buffer, the membrane was incubated with an [α-32P]-labeled 16S rDNA probe in renaturation buffer. After hybridization, the membranes were washed three times for 15 min with renaturation buffer. The full coding sequence of the Arabidopsis SWIB-4 gene was cloned into the pQE30 vector (Qiagen) for the transformation in E. coli M15 cells. The cultures were grown in Luria-Bertani medium at 37°C for several hours and IPTG was added at OD600 0.7-1 to a final concentration of 1 mM. After staining with DAPI, the cells were examined by differential interference contrast and fluorescence microscopy with a Zeiss Axiophot microscope (Carl Zeiss). The E. coli strain hns::FRT, which carries a precise deletion of hns (CITATION), was transformed with the pQE30 plasmid encoding the Arabidopsis SWIB-4 gene and with the empty pQE30 plasmid as a control. The bacteria were streaked on MacConkey-salicin indicator plates, which were prepared from BD Difco MacConkey Agar Base (BD Diagnostics) and salicin (Sigma-Aldrich) as described (CITATION). When required, the medium was supplemented with ampicillin (100 μg/ml) and IPTG (1 mM). Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: At3g48600 (SWIB-1), At2g14880 (SWIB-2), At4g34290 (SWIB-3), At3g03590 (SWIB-4), At1g34760 (SWIB-5), and At2g35605 (SWIB-6). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Two-Dimensional Separation of the Highly Enriched Transcriptionally Active Chromosome (TAC-II) Isolated from Spinach Chloroplasts. Supplemental Figure 2. MitoTracker Orange Labeling of Onion Epidermal Cells Transiently Expressing SWIB-5:GFP and SWIB-6:GFP Constructs. Supplemental Figure 3. Sequence Alignment of the Histone H1 Motif of the SWIB-4 Protein and in Vitro Import Assays with Pea Chloroplasts. Supplemental Figure 4. Immunological Detection of SWIB-4 in Chloroplasts and Nuclei Prepared from Leaves of Arabidopsis. Supplemental Figure 5. Molecular Characterization of SWIB-4 T-DNA Insertion Mutants. Supplemental Figure 6. Development-Dependent Expression of Genes Encoding SWIB-2 to -6 Proteins from Group 1 of the SWIB Domain Family of Arabidopsis. Supplemental Table 1. List of Primers Used for Molecular Characterization of swib-4 Mutants. Supplemental Data Set 1. Proteins Identified in the Spots of the TAC-II 2-DE Gel Shown in Supplemental Figure 1. Supplemental Data Set 2. Amino Acid Alignment Used to Generate Figure 2A.
