!~ABS~! Position-dependent patterning of hair and non-hair cells in the Arabidopsis thaliana root epidermis is a powerful system to study the molecular basis of cell fate specification. Here, we report an epidermal patterning mutant affecting the ADENOSINE DIMETHYL TRANSFERASE 1A (DIM1A) rRNA dimethylase gene, predicted to participate in rRNA posttranscriptional processing and base modification. Consistent with a role in ribosome biogenesis, DIM1A is preferentially expressed in regions of rapid growth, and its product is nuclear localized with nucleolus enrichment. Furthermore, DIM1A preferentially accumulates in the developing hair cells, and the dim1A point mutant alters the cell-specific expression of the transcriptional regulators GLABRA2, CAPRICE, and WEREWOLF. Together, these findings suggest that establishment of cell-specific gene expression during root epidermis development is dependent upon proper ribosome biogenesis, possibly due to the sensitivity of the cell fate decision to relatively small differences in gene regulatory activities. Consistent with its effect on the predicted S-adenosyl-l-Met binding site, dim1A plants lack the two 18S rRNA base modifications but exhibit normal pre-rRNA processing. In addition to root epidermal defects, the dim1A mutant exhibits abnormal root meristem division, leaf development, and trichome branching. Together, these findings provide new insights into the importance of rRNA base modifications and translation regulation for plant growth and development.
!~RES~! A recessive mutant, preliminarily designated 45-137, was identified in a forward genetic screen for root epidermal patterning defects among ethyl methanesulfonate–mutagenized plants expressing the non-hair-cell-specific reporter GL2pro:GUS (for β-glucuronidase). The 45-137 mutant was found to express GL2pro:GUS in a pattern that is not strictly associated with the position of epidermal cells relative to the underlying cortical cells. In wild-type roots, ∼95% of developing epidermal cells in the H position lack GL2pro:GUS expression, and 100% of cells in the N position express GL2pro:GUS (Figures 1C and 1D). In 45-137 roots, only 80% of developing epidermal cells in the H position lack GL2pro:GUS, and 94% of cells in the N position express GL2pro:GUS (Figures 1C and 1D). Accordingly, in the mature portion of the root, the 45-137 mutant displays a significant increase in the frequency of non-hair cells in H cell files (20% compared with 5% in the wild type) (Table 1). The dim1A root phenotype was variable, with some roots appearing nearly normal and others exhibiting severe defects in epidermal pattern, yet the average difference between the dim1A and the wild type was statistically significant (Figure 1D, Table 1). A map-based cloning approach was taken to identify the gene affected by the dim1A mutation. Using bulk-segregant analysis of F3 pools followed by detailed mapping with simple sequence length polymorphism, cleaved-amplified polymorphic sequence, and derived cleaved-amplified polymorphic sequences primers (see Supplemental Table 1 online), we narrowed the mutation to an 83-kb region (19.408 to 19.490) containing 41 genes (Figure 2). Sequence analysis of genes in this region identified a G-to-A change in locus At2g47420 at position 19,457,770, which causes a predicted Gly to Glu missense at position 66 in the gene product (Figure 2). To verify that the mutation in this locus caused the 45-137 mutant phenotype, a construct containing a full-length genomic fragment of At2g47420 was stably transformed into 45-137 plants. This construct fully complemented the GL2pro:GUS cell-type expression defect of the 45-137 mutant (Figures 1C and 1D), indicating that the phenotypic defects seen in 45-137 result from the single base change identified in locus At2g47420. As the At2g47420 gene was previously designated DIM1A (CITATION), we refer to the 45-137 mutant as dim1A. [[FIGURE]] DIM1A encodes a putative 18S rRNA S-adenosyl-l-Met (SAM)-dependent adenosine dimethyltransferase. It exhibits extensive sequence similarity to members of the KsgA/Dim1 family of rRNA dimethylases, including the well-characterized Dim1p in S. cerevisiae and KsgA in Escherichia coli (45.6 and 21.8% amino acid sequence identity and 59.7 and 31.1% sequence similarity, respectively). These enzymes catalyze the methylation of two adjacent conserved adenosines at the 3′ end of 18S rRNA (in eukaryotes) or 16S rRNA (in prokaryotes and eukaryotic organelles) (CITATION; CITATION) and are involved in processing of precursor rRNA to generate mature rRNA for subunit assembly (CITATION; CITATION). The Arabidopsis genome encodes a total of three rRNA dimethylase enzymes: DIM1A (At2g47420), described here; PALEFACE1 (At1g01860), a plastid-localized enzyme important for cold tolerance (CITATION); and DIM1B (At5g66360), a mitochondrial-localized enzyme recently shown to methylate mitochondrial rRNA (CITATION). Thus, DIM1A appears to be the only 18S rRNA dimethylase in Arabidopsis devoted to the biogenesis of nuclear-derived ribosomes. The dim1A missense mutation alters a conserved Gly residue within the canonical SAM binding sequence, shown in bacterial KsgA to form part of the cofactor binding pocket (CITATION) (Figure 2). Considering this, we hypothesized that the dim1A gene may be expressed normally and its product may process pre-rRNA normally, but it may have altered methylation ability due to the change in its predicted SAM binding sequence. As a first test of this hypothesis, we used RT-PCR to analyze DIM1A RNA accumulation, and we found similar transcript levels in dim1A and wild-type seedlings (see Supplemental Figure 1 online), indicating that the DIM1A gene is transcribed normally in the dim1A mutant. To assess the methylation status of the two adjacent adenosines at the 3′ end of 18S rRNA (A1785 and A1786) in dim1A and the wild type, we used a primer extension experiment, which takes advantage of the inability of reverse transcriptase to extend an oligonucleotide past a N-6 dimethylated adenosine (CITATION) (Figure 3A). Using RNA from wild-type plants, primer extension was inhibited at the rRNA bases A1785 and A1786, indicating that these adenosines possess the N-6 dimethylations (Figure 3B). However, using RNA from dim1A, the primer extension reaction proceeded beyond A1785 and A1786, terminating at U1783 as a result of inclusion of ddATP instead of dATP in the nucleotide mixture to force the reaction to stop at a measurable distance (Figure 3). This result indicates that DIM1A is necessary for the N-6 dimethylation of the adenosines at positions 1785 and 1786 of the 18S rRNA and that disruption of a single conserved Gly within the SAM binding domain is sufficient to abolish this methylation. [[FIGURE]] Yeast Dim1p is required not only for 18S rRNA adenosine dimethylation, but also for 35S pre-rRNA processing (CITATION), and these two functions are separable (CITATION). To determine whether the Arabidopsis dim1A mutation affects rRNA processing, we used an RT-PCR–based assay with primers designed to flank the putative processing sites (CITATION; CITATION) (Figure 4A). The results show that similar levels of unprocessed 5′ external transcribed spacer (ETS) are detected from wild-type and dim1A seedling tissue (Figure 4B), suggesting that the dim1A mutation affects 18S rRNA dimethylation, but not pre-rRNA processing. [[FIGURE]] The results described above suggest that aberrant ribosome formation may be responsible for the root development defects in the dim1A mutant. To explore this possibility further, we analyzed the effect of cycloheximide, a specific inhibitor of eukaryotic cytoplasmic ribosome function, on root epidermal patterning in wild-type seedlings. Using a concentration of cycloheximide (5 µg/mL) that affected root growth to the same extent as the dim1A mutant on unsupplemented media, we observed a significant change in the specification of the hair and non-hair cell types (Figures 1C and 1D). This suggests that the abnormal patterning in dim1A is due, at least in part, to abnormal cytoplasmic ribosome function. To investigate the transcriptional control of the DIM1A gene, a DIM1A promoter GUS fusion construct, DIM1Apro:GUS, was generated and characterized. This construct was made with the same promoter region shown to complement the dim1A mutation when driving expression of the DIM1A coding region (Figures 1C and 1D). Examination of 12 independent transgenic lines showed that DIM1Apro:GUS expression was detectable at the tips of emerging 2-d-old roots, with the strongest expression in the epidermis and vasculature (Figure 5A). The level of epidermal expression was greatest in the meristematic region, with cell-to-cell variability within each individual root that did not appear to be related to cell type or position (Figure 5A). In older roots, the level of DIM1Apro:GUS expression was diminished and restricted to the vasculature and lateral root primordia when roots were stained for shorter times, but expression was detected in all root meristematic cells upon longer incubation times (Figures 5B and 5F). In developing cotyledons and leaves, DIM1Apro:GUS expression was observed at the tip of the leaves as well as in the vascular tissue (Figures 5E and 5G). DIM1Apro:GUS was expressed throughout floral tissue, particularly in the vasculature of petals, anther, and pollen, and was enriched in stem vasculature and the silique abscission zone (Figures 5C and 5D). [[FIGURE]] As an independent assessment of DIM1A expression, we analyzed DIM1A transcript accumulation data from available Arabidopsis microarray datasets, including Genevestigator (CITATION; www.genevestigator.ethz.ch) and the eFP database (CITATION; www.bar.utoronto.ca/efp). These data indicate that DIM1A is expressed in rapidly dividing regions of the plant, such as embryonic tissue, leaf primordia, and root meristems. Within the root meristem, DIM1A RNA accumulates in all tissues, with its abundance diminishing as the tissues mature (CITATION; www.bar.utoronto.ca/efp). These findings largely confirm our reporter expression data. To examine the subcellular and organ-wide distribution of the DIM1A protein, we generated a C-terminal green fluorescent protein (GFP) translational fusion construct of the DIM1A coding region, driven by the DIM1A promoter. When introduced into the dim1A mutant, this DIM1Apro:DIM1A-GFP construct fully complemented the dim1A mutant phenotypes (Figures 1C and 1D), suggesting that the DIM1A-GFP fusion protein is functional. Confocal imaging revealed that DIM1A-GFP was localized primarily in root cell nuclei, most strongly in subnuclear regions presumed to be the nucleolus (Figures 6A to 6C). This result is consistent with recent work showing nucleolar localization of DIM1A-GFP transiently expressed in Arabidopsis protoplasts (CITATION) and predominantly nucleolar localization of Dim1p in yeast (CITATION). At an organ-wide level, DIM1A-GFP was observed in all tissue types in the developing root (Figure 6F). A comparison of DIM1Apro:DIM1A-GFP (Figure 6) to DIM1Apro:GUS results (Figure 5) indicates considerable overlap in root cells expressing the DIM1A promoter and accumulating DIM1A protein, although DIM1A protein appears to persist in differentiated (older) root cells that lack detectable DIM1A promoter activity. Interestingly, in the root epidermis, DIM1A-GFP appeared to accumulate and persist to a greater extent in the H position cells than in the N position cells (Figures 6D and 6E; 14/15 H cell files examined exhibited preferential GFP accumulation relative to N cell files). This is likely a posttranscriptional effect, since differential DIM1Apro:GUS expression was not observed (Figure 5), and it may reflect a preferential requirement for DIM1A and/or ribosome function in the differentiation of root hair cells. [[FIGURE]] In other species, excessive production of a normal or catalytically inactive member of the KsgA/Dim1 protein family can affect growth or viability (CITATION; CITATION). To assess the effect of excessive DIM1A or mutant dim1A protein in Arabidopsis, we overexpressed C-terminal GFP fusion constructs of the DIM1A or dim1A alleles using the strong cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. Each of these constructs, 35S:DIM1A-GFP and 35S:dim1A-GFP, were introduced into wild-type and dim1A mutant plants, and multiple homozygous transgenic lines were analyzed for each combination. In the dim1A mutant background, overexpressing the G66E dim1A mutant did not have any impact on epidermal patterning, while overexpressing the wild- type DIM1A essentially complemented the dim1A mutant phenotype (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). In the wild-type background, overexpressing either wild-type DIM1A or mutant G66E dim1A had little or no effect on epidermal patterning (see Supplemental Figure 2 online) or overall plant development. Overall, the results from these overexpression experiments suggest that, in plants, an excessive amount of the normal DIM1A or methylase-deficient version of DIM1A protein does not affect epidermal patterning or meristem development. Our initial analyses showed that the dim1A mutant affects the position-dependent pattern of GL2pro:GUS reporter expression in the root epidermis (Figure 1). To define the role of DIM1A further, we analyzed the effect of dim1A on the expression of the hair cell reporter EGL3pro:GUS and the non-hair cell reporters CPCpro:GUS and WERpro:GFP, which were independently introduced into the dim1A mutant by crossing. In the dim1A EGL3pro:GUS plants, we did not observe a significant change in the amount or pattern of GUS activity in the root epidermis (Figure 7B). This suggests that the cell position–dependent regulation and expression level of EGL3 in the root epidermis does not require wild-type DIM1A. [[FIGURE]] In the dim1A CPCpro:GUS plants, we observed a severe reduction in GUS activity in the root epidermis compared with wild-type plants, although the characteristic expression of this GUS reporter in the developing vascular tissue was still present (Figure 7A). After a long staining period, we did observe weak CPC promoter activity in the root epidermis. These results show that DIM1A is necessary for proper epidermal cell expression of CPC. In the dim1A WERpro:GFP line, we observed the usual non-hair-specific pattern of the WERpro:GFP reporter, but we noticed a difference in the relative abundance of GFP accumulation in cells located in the H and N files, relative to the wild-type WERpro:GFP line (Figures 7C and 7D). Quantification of the level of WERpro:GFP expression, performed by measuring pixel content in individual cells in the upper one-third of the root meristem, revealed a significant reduction in the N/H cell ratio of GFP in dim1A compared with the wild type (1.5 versus 3.2) (Figure 7E), due to an almost twofold increase in WERpro:GFP expression in the H file cells of dim1A. These results suggest that DIM1A is required to establish or maintain the high N/H ratio of WER expression during root epidermis cell specification. The results described above suggest that DIM1A is required for proper specification of the hair cell fate through its effects on CPC and WER expression. To analyze further the effect of DIM1A on epidermal cell fate specification, we introduced the dim1A mutation into the wer, scm, gl2, and ttg1 single mutant and egl3 gl3 double mutant backgrounds, in the presence of the GL2pro:GUS reporter, to investigate possible genetic interactions. WER is necessary for specification of the non-hair cell fate and for GL2 expression, as illustrated by the excess root hairs and reduced GL2pro:GUS expression in the wer-1 mutant (CITATION, CITATION). Interestingly, we found that the wer-1 dim1A double mutant contained dramatically more GL2pro:GUS-expressing epidermal cells than the wer-1 single mutant (Figure 7F). Specifically, we found that only 4% of wer-1 dim1A roots (n = 83) completely lacked GL2pro:GUS-expressing meristematic epidermal cells, compared with 75% of wer-1 roots (n = 44). Furthermore, while only 9% of wer-1 mutant roots had more than five GL2pro:GUS-expressing epidermal cells, 72% of wer-1 dim1A roots showed more than five GL2pro:GUS-expressing cells. Consistent with its increased GL2 promoter activity, the wer-1 dim1A double mutant had significantly fewer root hair cells than the wer-1 mutant (83.5 and 94.5%, respectively), due to a reduction in the fraction of N-position cells that differentiate into hair cells (Table 1). These additive genetic interactions suggest that wer and dim1A mutations affect root epidermal cell specification in opposing ways, with wer promoting the hair pathway and dim1A the non-hair pathway. The SCM leucine-rich repeat receptor-like kinase is required for epidermal cells to interpret their position relative to underlying cortical cells, and mutations in scm, like dim1A, result in a disorganized pattern of specified cell fates (CITATION; CITATION). Following the introduction of dim1A into the scm-2 loss-of-function mutant, we discovered a partial rescue of the scm-2 epidermal cell-type patterning phenotype by dim1A (Figures 7F and 7G). The double mutant showed a slight reduction in GL2pro:GUS-expressing cells in the H position, from 40.6% in scm-2 to 32.2% in scm-2 dim1A, and a greater reduction in GL2pro:GUS nonexpressing cells in the N position, from 30.6% in scm-2 to 9.2% in scm-2 dim1A (Figure 7G). The inclusion of the dim1A mutation in the ttg1, gl3 egl3, or gl2 mutant backgrounds did not alter their GL2pro:GUS root expression phenotypes compared with the respective single mutant phenotypes (Figure 7F), which suggests a lack of genetic interaction between dim1A and these patterning genes. Primary roots of dim1A seedlings are shorter than wild-type seedlings due to an ∼50% reduction in root growth rate (Figures 8A and 8B). Quantitative analysis of root epidermal cell length showed that dim1A does not differ significantly from the wild type (Figure 8C), implicating reduced cell production rather than reduced cell size as the primary cause for its decreased root length and growth rate. Examination of root meristems (defined as the region of the root tip containing actively dividing cells; Figure 8D) revealed a reduction in cell number in dim1A. Compared with wild-type roots, the dim1A mutant meristematic region contained 60.5% of the H position epidermal cells, 67.9% of the N-position epidermal cells, and 49.9% of the cortical cells (Figure 8E). Interestingly, the cells observed in the dim1A meristematic region were longer than their wild-type counterparts (Figure 8E), suggesting diminished cell division activity. [[FIGURE]] To assess the relative rate of cell division within the meristem, we examined epidermal clones in wild-type and dim1A roots. These clones arise from rare longitudinal-oriented divisions of epidermal cells within the meristem that produce a recognizable pair of short cell files within a single cell file, with the final cell number in the clone dictated by the number of rounds of cell division that occur (Figure 9A) (CITATION). Examination of more than 100 clones each from wild-type and from dim1A roots suggest a reduced cell division rate in the dim1A clones (Figure 9B). The most frequent type of clone in wild-type root meristems was derived from five rounds of division (class five clones), whereas the most frequent dim1A clone was due to three rounds of division (class three clones). Additionally, while 18.9% of wild-type clones were class six, we only observed one class six clone in dim1A roots (Figure 9B). Together, these results indicate that cell division is reduced in the dim1A roots. [[FIGURE]] To determine whether the reduced cell division rate in the dim1A mutant might be responsible for its epidermal cell patterning defect, we analyzed the pattern of GL2pro:GUS reporter expression in wild-type roots treated to inhibit cell division. For this purpose, we used hygromycin, streptomycin, puromycin, and tetracycline, which were all effective in reducing cell number in the root epidermis (see Supplemental Figure 3A online). However, none of these treatments significantly affected the GL2pro:GUS expression pattern (see Supplemental Figures 3B and 3C online), suggesting that the epidermal cell-type patterning defect in the dim1A mutant cannot be mimicked by merely inhibiting meristem cell division. We observed other (non-root) morphological defects in the dim1A mutant, including pointed leaves, reduced leaf size, and disrupted leaf venation (Figure 10). These phenotypes are similar to ones observed in other Arabidopsis ribosome assembly factor mutants, including nuc-l1/par1 (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), oligocellula2 (CITATION), and apum23-1 (CITATION), as well as the phenotypes of Arabidopsis ribosomal protein mutants, including rpl24b/stv1, rpl4a, and rps23a (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Interestingly, we did not detect a difference in leaf cell shape or stomatal development (Figure 10E) as observed in other ribosomal mutants (CITATION; CITATION). However, we did detect a reduction in trichome branching in the dim1A mutant (Figure 10F), suggesting that functional DIM1A may be needed for normal trichome development. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Seeds of Arabidopsis thaliana were surface sterilized and subsequently germinated and grown on mineral nutrient media solidified with 0.6% agarose as previously reported (CITATION). Unless otherwise noted, seedlings were analyzed after 4 d growth at 22°C under continuous illumination. For crosses, propagation, and trichome analysis, seedlings were transferred to soil and grown in growth chambers at 22°C under long-day conditions. The following lines were previously described: wer-1 (CITATION), gl3-1 (CITATION), egl3-1 (CITATION), gl2-1 (CITATION), ttg1-1 (CITATION), scm-2 (CITATION), WERpro:GFP (CITATION), GL2pro:GUS (CITATION), EGL3pro:GUS (CITATION), and CPCpro:GUS (CITATION). Reporter genes and mutations were introduced by crossing and subsequently verified as homozygous by phenotypic analysis (reporters) or molecular genotyping (mutant lines). Seed mutagenesis of the GL2pro:GUS reporter line (Wassilewskija [Ws] ecotype) with ethyl methanesulfonate was performed as described (CITATION). The 45-137 mutant was identified by screening M3 seedlings stained for GUS for defects in root epidermal GL2 promoter activity. 45-137 GL2pro:GUS plants were crossed to Landsberg erecta wild type to generate F2 and F3 offspring for genetic mapping (CITATION). Primers are listed in Supplemental Table 1 online). A 3.2-kb genomic fragment spanning the full length of the Arabidopsis DIM1A gene (At2g47420), including the 5′ and 3′ intergenic spaces as well as the 3′ untranslated region and one exon and one intron of both the 5′ and 3′ neighboring genes, was amplified from DNA isolated from BAC clone T30B22 (ABRC) using PFU Turbo (Stratagene) and the primers 45137COMP-LP and 45137COMP-RP (see Supplemental Table 1 online). The amplified fragment was ligated into the Gateway pENTR/SD/TOPO vector (Invitrogen), and confirmed positives were recombined into Gateway vector pMDC99 using LR clonase (Invitrogen) after linearization of pENTR/DIM1A plasmid DNA. Resultant clones were sequenced, and plasmid DNA was isolated and transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV301. To obtain the C-terminal GFP-tagged DIM1A protein, a 2.4-kb fragment containing the same upstream and genomic region of the complementation construct but stopping prior to the stop codon was amplified using primers 45137GFP-LP and 45137GFP-RP (see Supplemental Table 1 online) and cloned into Gateway vector pMDC117. To obtain the DIM1A promoter-GUS fusion, a 1.3-kb region upstream of the DIM1A start codon was amplified using the primers 45137PRO-LP and 45137GFP-RP (see Supplemental Table 1 online) and cloned into Gateway vector pMDC43. To obtain the overexpression lines in which DIM1A and 45-137 were expressed from the 35S promoter, a 1.2-kb genomic region of DIM1A from the start codon through the stop codon, which was replaced with Ala (TAA to GCG), was amplified using the primers 45137PRO-LP and 45137GFP-RP (see Supplemental Table 1 online) and subsequently cloned into GATEWAY vector pMDC43. Plants were transformed using a modified version of the Agrobacterium-mediated floral dip transformation protocol (CITATION), and transformants were selected with hygromycin (50 μg/mL). Histochemical analysis of plants containing the GUS reporter gene was performed as previously described (CITATION). For quantitative analysis of reporter-expressing cells, epidermal cell location was determined relative to an anticlinal cortical cell wall (ACCW), and cells within one hair file (bordering and underlying ACCW) and one non-hair file (not bordering and underlying ACCW) were counted from the meristem initial up to the elongation zone. The pattern of root hair and non-hair epidermal cell types was determined by examining seedling roots following staining with toluidine blue. Ten cells in each the H position and N position were counted for at least 20 seedling roots per line. An epidermal cell was scored as a root hair cell if any protrusion was visible, regardless of its length. All fluorescence imaging was done using a TCS SP5 DM6000B broadband confocal microscope (Leica) with a HCX PL APO CS ×20 dry lens or HCX PL APO CS 100.0 ×1.40 oil lens. Image capture and analysis was done with LAS AF software (Leica Microsystems). GFP and propidium iodide (PI) were observed sequentially on separate channels. The GFP signal was excited using the argon 488-nm laser and captured using PMT2 between bandwidth 493 and 557 nm. The PI signal was excited using a diode-pumped solid state 561-nm laser and captured using PMT3 between 591 and 765 nm. Image capture was performed with a pinhole of 60.8 nm, a line and frame average both of two, and a scan speed of 200 Hz. Just prior to imaging, seedlings were counterstained for 2 min with light shaking in 10 μg/mL PI in water. After washing twice in double distilled water, roots were mounted on slides, with cotyledons removed, in double distilled water. WERpro:GFP intensity was quantified using the return on investment tool to measure total pixels from individual cells demarcated by PI staining. Meristem length was measured from the first visible epidermal cell at the tip of the root to the cell previous to the first that was longer than wider (indicating entry into rapid elongation zone and exit from the meristematic region). Pixel sum analysis was performed on cells within a region one-third the length of the meristem measured toward the root tip down from the last meristematic cell. The average pixel sum was calculated for each cell file. One N file and one H file were analyzed from five different roots for three biological repeats (a total of 15 wild-type and 15 dim1A roots). Analysis of meristem cell size and cell number was measured from medial longitudinal confocal sections. Root length was measured from seedlings grown vertically on minimal media plates. Individual seedlings were tracked and imaged every day for 6 d after germination. Leaf surface area and trichome characteristics were determined for the first pair and second pair of fully expanded leaves from 21-month-old soil-grown plants. Leaf surface area was measured using Macnification (Orbicle). Trichome counts and branching were analyzed for individual leaves using a dissection scope. Leaf venation and stomatal pattern were analyzed on leaves cleared overnight in 70% ethanol. Unless otherwise indicated, all measurements were done with Adobe Photoshop CS3. Total cellular RNA was extracted from whole 5-d-old seedlings using Trizol (Invitrogen) as described (CITATION). RNA was treated with TURBO-Free DNase (Ambion) following the manufacturer’s protocol. DNase-treated total RNA was used to make cDNA using random hexamer primers with a First-Strand cDNA Synthesis Kit (GE Healthcare) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. cDNA was diluted to a final concentration of 1/10,00 for the processing assay and 1/200 for DIM1A expression analysis and subjected to PCR using specific primers (see Supplemental Table 1 online). The poisoned primer extension procedure was adapted from CITATION. A total of 50 pmol of PAGE-purified DNA oligonucleotide primer 18SPE (see Supplemental Table 1 online) was end-labeled with 150 μCi [32Pɣ]ATP using T4-polynucleotide kinase (Fermentas) then separated from unincorporated nucleotides using a G-50 sephadex column (GE Healthcare). End-labeled primer (2 pmol) was annealed to 4 μg RNA in the presence of 1 mM nucleotides (ddATP, dCTP, dGTP, and dTTP) by incubating at 95°C for 1 min, 65°C for 5 min, and ice for 15 min. The extension reaction were performed using AMV reverse transcriptase (Promega) in the presence of 10 mM sodium pyrophosphate (prewarmed to 42°C) at 42°C for 90 min and was then stopped by addition of an equal volume of stop buffer (95% formamide, 20 mM EDTA, 0.05% bromophenol blue, and 0.05 xylene cyanol). Four RNA sequencing reactions were set up identically to the primer extension reaction, except with 2 μg of RNA and a nucleotide mixture containing four deoxynucleotide triphosphates and one of each dideoxynucleoside triphosphate. Resulting products were analyzed on a 10% acrylamide/6 M urea sequencing gel. Arabidopsis sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under the following accession numbers: DIM1A (At2G47420), CPC (At2g46410), EGL3 (At1g63650), GL2 (At1g79840), GL3 (At5g41315), MYB23 (At5g40330), TTG1 (At5g24520), and WER (At5g14750). Sequence data for DIM1A-related genes from other species can be found under the following accession numbers: NP_001150423 (Zea mays), 5,715,604 (Chlamydomonas reinhardtii), XP_001769214.1 (Physcomitrella patens), XP_638864.1 (Dictyostelium dictoideim), NP_015057.1 (Saccharomyces cerevisiae), XP_567269.1 (Cryptococcus neoformans), NP_001089685.1 (Xenopus laevis), NP_001003556.1 (Danio rerio), EAW51386.1 (Homo sapiens), NP_651660.1 (Drosophila melanogaster), NP_496061.2 (Caenorhabditus elegans), and XP_001704233.1 (Giardia lambia). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Expression of DIM1A Is Not Altered in the dim1A Mutant. Supplemental Figure 2. The Effect of Overexpression of DIM1A or G66E dim1A. Supplemental Figure 3. Reduced Epidermal Cell Division by Antibiotic Treatment Does Not Significantly Alter Cell-Type Expression of GL2pro:GUS. Supplemental Table 1. Primers Used in This Study.
