!~ABS~! Double fertilization of the egg cell and the central cell by two sperm cells, resulting in the formation of the embryo and the endosperm, respectively, is a defining characteristic of flowering plants. The Arabidopsis thaliana female gametophytic mutant glauce (glc) can exhibit embryo development without any endosperm. Here, we show that in glc mutant embryo sacs one sperm cell successfully fuses with the egg cell but the second sperm cell fails to fuse with the central cell, resulting in single fertilization. Complementation studies using genes from the glc deletion interval identified an unusual genomic locus having homology to BAHD (for BEAT, AHCT, HCBT, and DAT) acyl-transferases with dual transcription units and alternative splicing that could rescue the sterility defect of glc. Expression of these transcripts appears restricted to the central cell, and expression within the central cell is sufficient to restore fertility. We conclude that the central cell actively promotes its own fertilization by the sperm cell through a signaling mechanism involving products of At1g65450. Successful fertilization of the egg cell is not blocked in the glc mutant, suggesting that evolution of double fertilization in flowering plants involved acquisition of specific functions by the central cell to enable its role as a second female gamete.
!~RES~! Upon fertilization, glc ovules were found to exhibit a remarkable phenotype in which the embryo develops without any endosperm (CITATION). To further characterize the glc phenotype and determine why no endosperm developed, the process of the double fertilization was further studied in glc mutant embryo sacs. First we checked for any possible effects of the glc mutation on pollen tube guidance by pollinating emasculated wild-type and glc/GLC flowers with pollen of the LAT52:GUS (for β-glucuronidase) pollen-specific marker. Pistils were sampled 8 and 14 h later, and GUS presence was detected at the micropylar end of the embryo sac. At 8 h after pollination (HAP), a significant difference between the wild type and glc was observed, where pollen tubes reached over 90% of wild-type ovules (144/158) and burst into their SC, while in glc/GLC pistils pollen tubes reached only 64% (148/230) of the ovules (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Considering the heterozygous genetic background of glc/GLC in which half of its embryo sacs are normal, most of the pollen tube arrivals detected at this time point (∼45%; since wild-type ovules are 50% of the total and have a 91% arrival rate) were likely to be at wild-type ovules. This implies that ∼62.5% of the glc mutant ovules did not yet receive any pollen tubes (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). By 14 HAP, however, 90% of the ovules in glc/GLC pistils received a pollen tube, a level that does not differ statistically from wild-type plants (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Therefore, we conclude that the glc mutation results in an initial delay in pollen tube arrival, possibly as a consequence of weaker pollen tube attraction. Nonpollinated mature glc/GLC pistils usually contain ∼50 to 60 normal-looking ovules, indistinguishable from one another. However, ∼24 HAP, the ovule population segregates into approximately two even groups: big, normal-looking ovules and small retarded ones (see Supplemental Figure 2 online and Figure 1C). This delineation persists into the mature silique, in which the normal ovules go through successful seed formation, whereas the small ovules abort, resulting in the semisterile phenotype of glc/GLC plants (see below). This observation also confirms that the small ovules indeed harbor nonfunctional female gametophytes. [[FIGURE]] To elucidate the fertilization process in glc embryo sacs, we pollinated glc/GLC heterozygotes with pollen carrying the sperm cell–specific histone HTR10 fused to the red fluorescent protein (RFP) as a marker for the sperm cell (CITATION). Knowing that by 14 HAP the pollen tube burst occurred in most of the glc ovules, we determined the fate of the discharged sperm cells in these ovules at 24 HAP or later. At that time, the presence of sperm cells was detected in only 15 wild-type ovules out of the 308 examined (4.9%), whereas in the glc/GLC mutant, sperm cells were detected in 132 ovules out of 451 (29.3%) (see Supplemental Table 1 online). Bearing in mind the heterozygous genetic background of the glc/GLC mutant, the actual percentage of the sperm containing glc ovules was ∼55%, indicating disturbance of the fertilization process in the mutated ovules. Moreover, 53.7% (71/132) of the sperm-containing ovules observed in glc/GLC pistils contained only single sperm cells, which we never observed in wild-type pistils (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). To further characterize the persistent single sperm cells observed in the embryo sacs of glc/GLC pistils, we introduced the following embryo sac cell–specific green fluorescent protein (GFP) marker lines (CITATION) into the glc/GLC mutant background: DD31 (SCs), DD45 (EC), and DD65 (CC). Emasculated flowers of F1 progenies from these crosses were pollinated with HTR10:RFP pollen, and 24 HAP or later glc/GLC pistils were sampled. Based on their small size, glc ovules were dissected out and the location of the sperm nuclei in their embryo sacs at the time of dissection was observed using the fluorescent markers. Prior to sperm discharge, the SCs were round shaped and turgid in all the observed cases (n = 40/40) (Figure 1A). SCs observed after sperm discharge exhibited shape changes (Figure 1B, compare with SC shape in Figure 1A), suggesting that at this stage the glc SC might be undergoing degeneration (CITATION). The delay in pollen tube arrival and burst into glc ovules followed by longer persistence of the discharged sperm cells in the glc embryo sac micropylar end even at 24 HAP or later led to delayed EC fertilization in glc ovules. As reported by CITATION, the DD45:GFP reporter, which marks the EC, persists further into postfertilization stages, from the zygote to early stages of embryo development. The two ovules shown in Figure 1C both expressed the DD45 marker. The right ovule had a well-developed embryo and several endosperm nuclei indicated by traces of autofluorescence, whereas in the smaller ovule, the EC had not yet been fertilized, as indicated by the fact that it had not yet adopted the typical compacted structure of the zygote. The percentage of unfertilized glc ovules at 24 HAP was 69.4% (n = 50/70), while in wild-type ovules, fertilization had already occurred in 94% (n = 62/66) of the ECs, based on using the DD45 marker to monitor their change into the characteristic shape of the zygote. Since fertilization of the EC in glc ovules was delayed, a lag phase in development of glc embryos as compared with wild-type embryos was expected and indeed observed previously (CITATION). The lack of support of the nourishing endosperm in glc ovules probably enhanced the retarded development of glc embryos when reaching the preglobular stage, and these embryos eventually abort (CITATION). After sperm cell release, embryo formation could be detected in the embryo sac of the small defective ovules, but the HTR10:RFP signal corresponding to a single sperm nucleus persisted in the vicinity of the egg apparatus (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). Once the sperm nucleus fused with the EC nucleus, the HTR10:RFP was rapidly removed. This removal is thought to play a role in remodeling of the zygotic chromatin (CITATION). In glc embryo sacs, EC fertilization is performed successfully; however, glc embryos were observed to exhibit some inhibition of paternal gene expression (CITATION). These observations raised the possibility that the normal rapid removal of HTR10 might be disrupted in the glc zygote. In that case, the persisting HTR10:RFP signal would colocalize with the EC nucleus in the postfertilization stages rather than disappear as in the wild type. Observations of glc late zygotes (Figure 1D) and embryos (Figure 1E) clearly showed that the HTR10:RFP and the DD45 GFP signals did not overlap (the yellow portion of the red spot in Figure 1E is due to partial overlay of red and green signals coming from multiple layers), indicating exclusion of this sperm cell signal from the EC. Therefore, the persisting HTR10:RFP signal after EC fertilization must arise from the second sperm cell, which would normally have fertilized the CC, and is not due to defective removal of the HTR10 from the sperm nucleus fertilizing the EC nucleus. In 100% of the observation samples (30/30), the second sperm nucleus was associated with the micropylar end of the late zygote/embryo. We then examined the cause underlying the persistence of this second sperm cell nucleus. This could arise from either a failure of fusion of the sperm cell with the CC (plasmogamy) or a failure of the migration of the sperm nucleus after entry into the CC cytoplasm and the consequent failure of karyogamy (i.e., fusion with the CC nucleus). Therefore, glc/GLC plants carrying the marker DD65:GFP, in which GFP was expressed specifically in the CC, were pollinated with HTR10:RFP pollen and observed. Observations of fertilized glc embryo sacs expressing the DD65 CC marker showed in 87.5% of the cases (35/40) that the localization of the persisting RFP signal was clearly external to the CC (Figure 1F; see full Z-stack images in Supplemental Figure 3 online). We conclude that in the glc mutant, failure of the second fertilization event is due to failure of fusion of the sperm cell and the CC, leading to the absence of endosperm formation from the glc CC in these ovules. However, in 12.5% of the observations (5/40), we noted that the sperm RFP and the CC GFP signals did overlap (Figure 1G). The latter observations were performed at 30 HAP or later, when the SCs had already degenerated and their space was occupied by the cytoplasmic protrusions of the CC at the micropylar end (called synergid hooks; CITATION), which normally develops into the micropylar endosperm after fertilization. The expansion of the CC into this zone might lead to the CC surrounding the remaining sperm cell, resulting in the observed overlap of signals even in the absence of plasmogamy. However, we also cannot rule out that in some cases, plasmogamy was successful but that the subsequent migration of the sperm nucleus to the CC nucleus was disrupted. The latter interpretation is partially supported by previous observations that a low rate (5%) of two to eight endosperm nuclei was observed in glc ovules (CITATION). It is possible that in these cases there was successful cell fusion but no karyogamy, which could trigger autonomous endosperm formation. In a study of fertilization by pollen from the cdka:1 mutant, it has been shown that initiation of autonomous endosperm by CC nuclear divisions was correlated with the failure of karyogamy of the CC and sperm nucleus (CITATION), although in that study the migration of the sperm cell nucleus after entry into the CC appeared to be unaffected in the mutants. To understand the molecular basis for the failure of CC fertilization in glc mutants, we embarked on the molecular isolation of the gene(s) responsible. A segment of 215 kb was reported to be deleted from chromosome #1 in the glc mutant (CITATION; Figure 2A). To examine the possibility that the glc phenotype is caused by loss of function of a single gene, we obtained and screened knockout lines in 25 out of the ∼55 annotated genes residing in the deletion. However, we did not observe the glc phenotype in any of these gene knockouts (list of all knockout lines screened here is found in Supplemental Table 2 online). [[FIGURE]] We then attempted to narrow down the region responsible for the glc phenotype, using complementation by BAC clones that overlie the deletion interval. Mutant heterozygotes were transformed with the following BAC clones (JAtY, John Innes Center) that together covered the deleted region: JAtY63O08 (At1g65290 to At1g65470), JAtY52D13 (At1g65380 to At1g65540), and JAtY60A22 (At1g65480 to At1g65660) (Figure 2B). Seeds were collected from successful glc BAC transformed plants and were plated on plates with kanamycin (kan) to determine the kan resistance/kan sensitivity (kanr/kans) segregation ratio to assay whether the BACs could rescue the glc defect. The kanr/kans segregation ratio in glc heterozygotes was 0.58:1, in a range typical of gametophytic mutations (CITATION; CITATION). This ratio increased to 2.35:1 and 2.41:1 in glc T2 plants transformed with the BACs JatY63O08 and JAtY52D13, respectively, in a statistically significant fashion (Table 1). The kanr/kans segregation ratio remained unchanged (0.56:1) when glc plants were transformed with BAC JAtY60A22 (Table 1). The failure of this BAC to complement glc is consistent with the absence of the glc phenotype in the reported deletion mutant hot, whose entire deletion overlaps ∼85% of JAtY60A22 (CITATION; blue bar in Figure 2B). Since the BACs JatY63O08 and JAtY52D13 are overlapping (Figure 2B, closed red bars), we concluded that one or more genes residing in this 35-kb region of overlap must play a role in the glc phenotype. Expression data in female reproductive tissues of the 10 genes residing in the overlapping region of JAtY63O08 and JAtY52D13 were derived from the Bio Array Resource (BAR) microarray database and showed that two small neighboring unknown transferases, At1g65450.2 and At1g65450.3 (formerly annotated as At1g65445 and At1g65450, respectively), were the only ones to be highly and specifically expressed in pistils of mature nonpollinated flower (Figure 3A; data adapted from BAR; http://bar.utoronto.ca). More importantly, the recently published Arabidopsis female gametophyte transcriptome (CITATION) enabled us to extract specific expression profiles of these genes in the different embryo sac cell types: EC, CC, and SC. It was found that most of the genes residing in the overlapping region (and in the entire deleted region; data presented only for genes in JAtY63008) had a low expression in all three cell types, except for At1g65450.2 and At1g65450.3, which were highly expressed in the CC (Figure 3B). Furthermore, expression of these two genes could not be found in the recently published seed development transcriptome (SeedGenes database, http://seedgenenetwork.net; CITATION) either in the early endosperm (preglobular stage) or other seed developmental stages, thereby restricting the role of these genes to earlier stages. Based on this information, these two genes were considered good candidates for being affected in the glc mutant. [[FIGURE]] Both genes were cloned into the binary vector pCAMBIA1300 (see Figure 2C for gene models and Figure 2D for the cloned genomic regions) and transformed into glc heterozyotes. Seeds were collected from transformed glc/GLC plants and were plated on plates with kan to assess their kanr/kans transmission ratio. Both genes successfully complemented the kanr/kans segregation ratio distortion typical of glc/GLC plants (Table 2) and rescued glc/GLC semisterility in mature siliques (Figure 4, Table 3). Therefore, we concluded that both genes can complement the fertility function that is disrupted in glc mutants. [[FIGURE]] It is important to note that the large-scale screen of T-DNA knockout lines mentioned above included knockouts of At1g65450.2 and At1g65450.3, corresponding to T-DNA insertion lines SM_3_1166 and SAIL_342_B04, respectively. In both cases, the insertions are in the middle of coding exons (Figure 2C); however, both lines exhibited a normal seed set and individuals homozygous for the insertion could be isolated, suggesting that 450.2 and 450.3 are genetically redundant. Furthermore, no homozygous glc plants could be isolated among the rescued glc transformants, implying that another gene or genes within the deletion are required to restore viability in glc homozygotes. For example, loss-of-function mutants of the gene AGL23, which lies within the glc deletion interval, is known to result in seedling lethality when homozygous (CITATION). Another possible reason for not obtaining glc/glc homozygotes might arise from the 135-kb segment duplicated elsewhere in the genome (CITATION), potentially affecting the expression of other unknown genes. As mentioned above, At1g65450.2 and At1g65450.3 were previously annotated as two separate genes that encode two small transferases of unknown function. However, we noticed that BLAST searches of each one aligns with the N-terminal and C-terminal regions, respectively, of most known acyl-transferase proteins of the BAHD superfamily (see amino acid sequence in Figure 5). These enzymes use acyl-CoA and are considered to be involved in secondary metabolism, which has been demonstrated for some of the BAHD members (CITATION). In Arabidopsis, at least 61 BAHD members were identified (CITATION). At the amino acid level, the BAHDs are highly divergent, showing 10 to 30% similarity, yet they share several highly conserved regions, specifically the HXXXD motif that is located near the enzyme’s catalytic center and the C-terminal DFGWG motif. Manipulation of these motifs has been shown to result in a significant reduction in enzymatic activity (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Indeed, the latest version of the Arabidopsis genome, TAIR10, has reannotated these as a single gene, At1g65450, containing two small exons separated by one long intron (see gene model in Figure 2C). Nevertheless, the known full-length cDNAs for this gene consist mostly of its shorter variants with the expected untranslated regions for two separate transcripts rather than truncated ESTs of the full gene (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). This indicates that the truncated variants are transcribed and may actually be more abundant than the combined sequence, therefore supporting the former annotation. Currently, a combination of both annotations is presented by TAIR10 (see Figure 2C for gene models that were taken from TAIR10 website). Interestingly, embryo sac–specific gene expression profiles of 54 Arabidopsis BAHD members in general showed very low expression, except for At1g65450.2 (450.2) and At1g65450.3 (450.3), which were the only ones highly expressed in the CC (Figure 3C). These data are consistent with a specific role for these two genes in the CC of the mature unfertilized ovule. In line with the former annotation, 450.2 and 450.3 were recently regarded as partial polypeptides that are lacking the two essential HXXXD and DFGWG motifs associated with functional BAHD genes and were therefore excluded from a large-scale phylogenetic analysis of BAHDs performed in Arabidopsis and poplar (Populus spp; CITATION). Nevertheless, we could successfully identify both motifs in the middle and the C-terminal end of At1g65450.1 (450.1) and in the N-terminal and C-terminal ends of 450.3 (Figures 5 and 6). It is important to note that we could detect several BAHD members from a variety of plants in which the motif diverged from the canonical conserved DFGWG motif. In the case of At1g65450, it is represented by EYPWG. A very similar change, DYPWG, occurred in the poplar BAHD EEF02345 protein, which groups into the same clade as At1g65450 (Figure 6). [[FIGURE]] To determine if the combined sequence is capable of rescuing glc and to rule out the possibility that the overlapping intergenic region (or intron) shared by the genomic DNA pieces of 450.2 and 450.3 is responsible for the rescue of glc, RNA was isolated from wild-type pistils and cDNAs were synthesized. All three isoforms discussed above were identified and successfully cloned, thus confirming the dual nature of At1g65450 expression. The complicated transcriptional structure of this locus made it difficult to pinpoint the native promoters. Since the embryo sac expression profiles of this gene were high in the CC (Figure 3B), we chose to use the reported DD65 CC-specific promoter (CITATION) for expression of the cloned cDNAs in the CC. The DD65 promoter was cloned and fused to a GUS reporter and indeed showed high and specific GUS activity in the CC (see Supplemental Figure 5 online). The DD65 promoter was then swapped in place of the original 35S promoter of the pB7W2 binary vector, into which the above cDNAs had been cloned. Seeds were collected from successfully transformed glc plants and plated onto plates containing kan to assess the kanr/kans segregation ratio. All three isoforms successfully rescued the distorted kanr/kans segregations ratio typical of glc/GLC plants (Table 4), indicating that both the combined sequence and its two truncated variants can functionally complement glc. To find out if the glc effect on pollen tube guidance was rescued as well, emasculated flowers form glc/GLC plants transformed with 450.3 were pollinated with pollen of expressing the LAT52:GUS pollen-specific marker. At 8 HAP, 86.3% of the ovules were reached by pollen tubes that burst at the micropylar end, which is not significantly different from wild-type ovules at the same time (see Supplemental Figure 1A online). Interestingly, even though 450.2 and 450.3 are not identical, the amino acid alignment of both shows regions of similarity (Figure 5). Again, no homozygous glc plants could be isolated among the rescued glc transformants, suggesting that another gene(s) within the deletion might be required for viability when homozygous. Most BAHDs are known to be localized to the cytoplasm (CITATION), but functions of this family have not been characterized in detail. Since the phenotype we describe suggests a communication problem between the CC and the externally located sperm cell, we explored the possibility of plasma membrane localization. Alternately, a clear nuclear localization using the 450.1 and 450.3 constructs would have suggested a nuclear role, such as involvement in gene expression through acetylation. GFP translational fusions of the complete protein and its subisoforms were constructed; the different cDNAs were cloned into N- and C-terminal GFP translational fusion constructs driven by the DD65 CC-specific promoter. Since the constructs used were driven by the DD65 promoter, we were expecting to observe GFP in the CC. This was indeed the case for 450.2 C-terminal, 450.3 N-terminal, and 450.1 N-terminal constructs. In these cases, the GFP was located in the cytoplasm and was highly concentrated in the nucleus only in the 450.2 construct (Figure 7). The nuclear GFP signal in the 450.3 and 450.1 constructs was considerably reduced compared with the cytoplasm, suggesting that the fusions might be excluded from the nucleus. However, due to the low signal that is detectable with 450.1 and 450.3, it is possible that the fusion proteins are still able to enter the nucleus. [[FIGURE]] To examine whether the GFP translational fusions are functional, they were introduced into the glc mutant background. Since direct transformation of the constructs into glc plants was not possible (due to having the same selective marker, i.e., kanr), glc/GLC served as a pollen donor and was crossed to pistils of wild-type transformants expressing the 450.2 C-terminal and the 450.3 N-terminal constructs mentioned above. F1 heterozygous plants that were genotyped as glc/GLC and expressed GFP in their ovules were isolated and their seed set was assessed. Partial but significant rescue of the glc/GLC semisterility phenotype was observed for both the 450.2 C-terminal and the 450.3 N-terminal constructs, thus indicating that both GFP fusions are biologically functional (Table 5). The unusual gene organization resulting in the 450.2 and 450.3 transcripts raised the question of where the promoters might reside for initiation of these transcripts. To characterize their putative promoters, genomic DNA from two intergenic regions was cloned. The first isolated fragment, from here on called the 450.2 promoter, resides between At1g65440 and the first exon of At1g65450. The second isolated fragment, that we call the 450.3 promoter, is the long intron of 450.1 that corresponds to the intergenic region between the 450.2 and 450.3 loci (see regions in Figure 2F). Both fragments were successfully cloned into the binary vector pKGWFS7, and their GUS expression was determined in mature nonfertilized ovules of wild-type transformants. In both cases, GUS activity could be detected in the embryo sac. With the 450.2 promoter, strong GUS activity was observed throughout the embryo sac, whereas the GUS activity driven by the 450.3 promoter was weaker and mainly restricted to the SC (see Supplemental Figures 6A to 6C online). In both cases, strong GUS activity was also observed in sporophytic tissues, such as the funiculus and the placenta for the 450.2 promoter and the micropylar end of integuments and placenta for the 450.3 promoter (see Supplemental Figures 6A to 6C online). These observations differ from the specific CC expression of the At1g65450 isoforms deduced from the microarray profiles (Figure 3B). However, it is very likely that in addition to the 5′ end promoter sequences used, the differential gene expression found in the embryo sac cell types requires enhancer activity of elements located up/downstream of the gene, particularly in the case of the 450.3 gene. Since the isolated putative promoters were likely incomplete and were investigated out of their native chromosomal context, we were not expecting to observe an exact match between the GUS activity and the actual expression pattern of these genes. Still, both DNA fragments were found to have promoter activity in the embryo sac. Importantly, the GUS activity resulting from the 450.3 promoter suggests that the intron between the two exons of 450.1 can act as a promoter for the 450.3 gene and therefore can explain the presence of the 450.3 transcripts in wild-type plants.
!~MM~! The LAT52:GUS pollen-specific marker was a gift from Sheila McCormick (University of California, Berkeley; CITATION). The embryo sac cell-specific GFP markers lines, DD31 (SC), DD45 (EC), and DD65 (CC), were a gift from Gary Drews (University of Utah; CITATION). The sperm-specific RFP marker HTR10 was a gift from Fred Berger (Temasek Lifesciences Laboratories, Singapore; CITATION). The T-DNA knockout lines SM_3_1166 and SAIL_342_B04 were obtained from the ABRC and Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre, respectively. The rest of the T-DNA lines screened in this study can be found in Supplemental Table 2 online. These mutants were genotyped according to the instructions found at http://signal.salk.edu. To genotype glc, primers that bridge the junction between the Ds element and the genomic flanking region (CITATION) were used (5′ to 3′): TAAGGAAGCTCAAGGGGAATC and CGTTCCGTTTTCGTTTTTTACC. Seed sterilization and growth conditions of the plants were performed as described (CITATION). Genomic DNA was extracted from rosette leaves (accession Landsberg erecta [Ler]) as described (CITATION). RNA extraction (from nonpollinated Ler pistils) and RT-PCR were done as described (CITATION). BACs JAtY52D13, JAtY60A22, and JAtY63O08 were obtained from the JAtY Clone Library at the John Innes Centre (http://jicgenomelab.co.uk/libraries.html). To amplify the genomic DNAs of At1g65450.2 and At1g65450.3 (see cloned regions in Figure 2C), the following primers (5′ to 3′) were used: GGTTTGCGACGAAGCGATTAAGGT and GTCCATCGAACGTGGTATGGTTTG for the former and AGGTCATTAGTCGAGGACCATG and CATCCATCCCTCAACTTGGCTA for the latter. These genes were then cloned into the binary vector pCAMBIA1300. To amplify the DD65 promoter we used (5′ to 3′) CGAGCTCTTAGTCAGCAAAATCAAAATT and CGACTAGTCAAAACACAAACACTTCTTAT. The amplified product was then cloned into the binary vector pCAMBIA1300. The different cDNAs of At1g65450 (see regions in Figure 2D) were cloned into pB7W2 (Gateway; Invitrogen). For At1g65450.1, the following primers were used (5′ to 3′): CACCGGTTCTTCGTACCAAGAATCTCCA and TCAGCACAGAGTGTCTTCAAACCA. For At1g65450.2, we used (5′ to 3′) CACCGGTTCTTCGTACCAAGAATCTCCA and TTATACACTCAAAACTTTTGATTT. For At1g65450.3, we used (5′ to 3′) CACCATGGGAATCTCAACAAACCATACC and TCAGCACAGAGTGTCTTCAAACCA. For N-terminal GFP translational fusions, the same cDNAs were cloned into pK7FWG2 (Gateway; Invitrogen). For C-terminal GFP translational fusions, the same primers were used, but excluded the first three nucleotides (stop codon) from the 5′ of the reverse primer. These cDNAs were cloned into pK7WFG2 (Gateway; Invitrogen). For putative promoter analysis, the following primers were used to amplify intergenic regions (Figure 2E): CACCCAGTGTGAATTTTTCATA and CATTTTGCAACCCTTCTCTCTC for the 450.2 promoter and CACCACAAAGAAGCTTCCTTA and CATTGCAAATCCACCGCACTT for the 450.3 promoter. The amplified DNAs were then cloned into pKGWFS7 (Gateway; Invitrogen). In all the Gateway destination vectors used here, the original 35S promoter was removed by SacI-SpeI double digestion and replaced by DD65 promoter, which has gone through the same double digest. The destinations backbone and the DD65 promoter bands were cut from the gel, and the DNAs were extracted by NucleoSpin Extract II kit (Macherey-Nagel) and ligated overnight using T4 ligase (New England Biolabs). The vectors were electroporated into Agrobacterium strains AGL1 or GV3101, which were later grown with the appropriate antibiotics. Transformation into Arabidopsis plants was performed by the floral dipping method (CITATION). Fluorescent and GUS signals were observed under a Zeiss Axioplan imaging 2 microscope equipped with epifluorescence illumination. Filter sets for GFP (green), RFP (Texas Red), and differential interference contrast were used. In some cases, a MRC-1024 confocal microscope was used (Bio-Rad). Images were captured with a CCD Zeiss camera using the AxioVision 4.8 software and were later assembled with the Adobe Photoshop software package. GUS staining and ovule Hoyer’s clearing was performed as published (CITATION); in the case of LAT52:GUS, we used the protocol published by CITATION. Amino acid sequences of related proteins used here were obtained from GenBank (National Center for Biotechnology Information) using homology with the transferase gene family. For phylogenetic analysis, these sequences were aligned using the t-coffee alignment software, version 9.02 (CITATION), and the resulting alignment was not edited. A rooted cladogram was produced using the PHYLIP package. Specifically, the protpars algorithm was used with 1000 alignments (made using seqboot) with the sequence order jumbled one time for each. The demonstration of conservation of the motifs HXXXDG and DFGWG, for which the emphasis is on function (rather than sequence evolution), was more clearly displayed (Figure 6, right panel) using a ClustalW alignment. Fisher’s exact tests were performed using the fisher.test of the core statistics package (stats) in the R statistical environment. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative under the following accession numbers: At1g65450.1, 2206339; At1g65450.2, 6530296489; and At1g65450.3, 6530296490. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Pollen Tube Guidance and Burst at the Embryo Sac Micropylar End of Wild-Type, glc/GLC, and glc/GLC;450.3 Ovules. Supplemental Figure 2. Sperm Localization in glc Ovules 24 h after Pollination. Supplemental Figure 3. Complete Z-Stack Cross-Section Confocal Images of HTR10:RFP in glc Ovule Expressing DD65 Central Cell Marker. Supplemental Figure 4. The Known Population of cDNAs of At1g65450 and Its Variants. Supplemental Figure 5. Central Cell–Specific GUS Activity in Wild-Type Ovule Driven by DD65 Promoter Fusion. Supplemental Figure 6. Putative Promoter Analysis. Supplemental Figure 7. Alternative Modes of Action of At1g65450 Isoforms in Central Cell–Sperm Cell Interaction. Supplemental Table 1. Presence of Sperm Nuclei in the Embryo Sac 24 h after Pollination. Supplemental Table 2. List of T-DNA Knockout Lines Screened in This Study. Supplemental Data Set 1. Text File of the Alignment Used to Generate the Tree Shown in Figure 6.
