!~ABS~! In eukaryotes, dolichols (C70‐120) play indispensable roles as glycosyl carrier lipids in the biosynthesis of glycoproteins on endoplasmic reticulum. In addition to dolichols, seed plants have other types of Z,E‐mixed polyisoprenoids termed ficaprenol (tri‐trans,poly‐cis‐polyprenol, C45‐75) and betulaprenol (di‐trans,poly‐cis‐polyprenol, C30‐45 and C≥70) in abundance. However, the physiological significance of these polyprenols has not been elucidated because of limited information regarding cis‐prenyltransferases (cPTs) which catalyze the formation of the structural backbone of Z,E‐mixed polyisoprenoids. In the comprehensive identification and characterization of cPT homologues from Arabidopsis thaliana, AtHEPS was identified as a novel cis,trans‐mixed heptaprenyl diphosphate synthase. AtHEPS heterologously expressed in Escherichia coli catalyzed the formation of C35 polyisoprenoid as a major product, independent of the chain lengths of all‐trans allylic primer substrates. Kinetic analyses revealed that farnesyl diphosphate was the most favorable for AtHEPS among the allylic substrates tested suggesting that AtHEPS was responsible for the formation of C35 betulaprenol. AtHEPS partially suppressed the phenotypes of a yeast cPT mutant deficient in the biosynthesis of dolichols. Moreover, in A. thaliana cells, subcellular localization of AtHEPS on the endoplasmic reticulum was shown by using green fluorescent protein fused proteins. However, a cold‐stress‐inducible expression of AtHEPS suggested that AtHEPS and its product might function in response to abiotic stresses rather than in cell maintenance as a glycosyl carrier lipid on the endoplasmic reticulum. 
!~RES~! In order to analyze the prenyltransferase activity, full‐length coding cDNA of AtcPT5 fused in‐frame with glutathione S‐transferase (GST) was overexpressed in E. coli BL21, and then each lysate was centrifuged to obtain soluble and insoluble fractions. The prenyltransferase assay was carried out with 14C‐IPP and E,E‐FPP as substrates, and the chain length of the products was analyzed by reversed phase TLC. For both soluble and insoluble fractions from E. coli overexpressing AtcPT5, additional prenyl products with carbon chain lengths ranging from C20 to C40 were detected, in which C35 prenyl products were the major product by comparison with products from the endogenous activity in the control strain transformed with the empty vector (Fig. 2A).  [[FIGURE]] To characterize AtcPT5 expressed in eukaryotic cells, cPT assays were conducted with crude proteins from S. cerevisiae expressing AtcPT5, in which a mutant strain of one cPT gene RER2, SNH23‐7D CITATION, was applied as a host. This system has been utilized to analyze reaction products from an exogenous cPT CITATION, CITATION, CITATION because the activity of the other yeast cPT, Srt1p which produces C95‐105 polyisoprenoids CITATION, is too low to detect until the stationary phase of cell growth. As shown in Fig. 1B, the crude proteins prepared from SNY9, a wild‐type (WT) strain for RER2, synthesized long‐chain polyprenyl products ranging in chain length from C65 to C85, whereas corresponding long‐chain polyprenyl products were not detected in the reaction products of SNH23‐7D. Consistent with the results from the recombinant AtcPT5 expressed in E. coli, crude proteins from SNH23‐7D/AtcPT5 showed distinct activities producing C35 polyisoprenoid. In addition, detectable amounts of radiolabeled products migrated at the position corresponding to C75‐85 polyprenols were also observed in the assay with the AtcPT5 overexpressing strain. To investigate the possibility of conversion of C35 prenyl diphosphate from AtcPT5 into these additional radiolabeled compounds by the action of enzymes in yeast, the 14C‐labeled C30‐35 prenyl diphosphates prepared by using the recombinant AtcPT5 expressed in E. coli were incubated with the crude extracts from SNH23‐7D. Reaction products were extracted with 1‐butanol, dephosphorylated and then analyzed by reversed phase TLC. As a consequence, no significant conversion in the radioactive compounds was caused by incubation with the crude extracts from yeast (Fig. S1). Therefore, these additional products observed in the reaction with the crude extracts from SNH23‐7D/AtcPT5 were considered to be formed by the prenyl chain elongation reaction of AtcPT5. These results revealed that AtcPT5 expressed in yeast showed a dual‐cPT activity producing short‐ and long‐chain prenyl products, although the major product of the recombinant AtcPT5 was C35 polyisoprenoid independent of the host species tested. Hence, AtcPT5 was renamed A. thaliana Z,E‐HepPP synthase (AtHEPS).  To investigate the precise enzymatic properties of AtHEPS, the recombinant protein was purified from E. coli overexpressing AtHEPS. Our first attempt to purify GST‐fused AtHEPS by using affinity chromatography from the soluble fraction of E. coli was unsuccessful because of the low expression level of AtHEPS as a soluble protein. Solubility of the protein in the E. coli expression system was improved by the expression of AtHEPS as a fusion protein with a chaperone protein trigger factor (TF) and His6‐tag under the control of a cold‐shock promoter (see also Experimental procedures). The 87 kDa protein corresponding to AtHEPS fused with the tag proteins was purified from the soluble fraction of the crude extracts by using Ni2+‐affinity chromatography to semi‐homogeneity. Then the tag protein was cleaved by treatment with thrombin (Fig. S2). However, it was difficult to dissociate the 35 kDa AtHEPS protein from the 52 kDa tag fragment completely under non‐denaturing conditions because of the strong hydrophobic interaction of the TF. Therefore, the partially purified AtHEPS containing the cleaved tag fragments was utilized for further characterization.  Since Triton X‐100 is known to be required for cPT activity for UPPS from E. coli and M. luteus B‐P 26 CITATION, CITATION, the effect of various detergents on the cPT activity of AtHEPS was analyzed. In order to determine which type of detergent was necessary for cPT activity, varying concentrations of Triton X‐100 as a non‐ionic detergent, cetyl trimethylammonium bromide (CTAB) as a cationic detergent and sodium deoxycholate (DOC) as an anionic detergent were tested. The cPT activity was increased significantly in the presence of Triton X‐100 in a concentration‐dependent manner until 0.02%, which corresponds to a critical micelle concentration (CMC). In contrast, the cPT activity was inhibited drastically in the presence of CTAB and DOC in a concentration‐dependent manner until each corresponding CMC, 0.9 mm and 5 mm, respectively (Fig. 3). These results indicated that AtHEPS required a non‐ionic detergent until its CMC, but interaction with ionic agents was not favorable. However, the requirement was not strict as ~30% of the activity (with 1% Triton X‐100) remained in the absence of detergents.  [[FIGURE]] Divalent cations, such as Mg2+, have also been reported to be essential for the UPPS reaction CITATION, CITATION. In order to assess the requirement of AtHEPS for divalent cations, the concentration dependence of Mg2+ was analyzed. Although the cPT activity was quite low in the absence of Mg2+, it increased drastically with the addition of Mg2+ with a maximum at 1 mm (Fig. 4A). In the presence of other divalent cations, Mn2+, Sn2+, Zn2+, Ni2+, Cu2+ and Co2+, the activity was weak (Fig. 4B).  [[FIGURE]] Structural differences between ficaprenols and betulaprenols in plants suggests the presence of two types of cPTs that prefer either E,E,E‐GGPP or E,E‐FPP as substrates, respectively. To investigate the allylic substrate specificity of AtHEPS, the kinetic parameters for IPP and various short‐chain allylic diphosphates, DMAPP, GPP, E,E‐FPP, E,E,E‐GGPP and Z,E,E‐geranylgeranyl diphosphate (Z,E,E‐GGPP), were determined by nonlinear regression analysis. AtHEPS exhibited lower Km values for E,E‐FPP and E,E,E‐GGPP and higher kcat values for E,E‐FPP and Z,E,E‐GGPP (Table 1). Among the allylic substrates tested, only DMAPP was not acceptable for AtHEPS. Thus, E,E‐FPP was the optimal allylic substrate and E,E,E‐GGPP was also adequate for AtHEPS judging from the kcat/Km values. AtHEPS exhibited a higher Km value for IPP compared with the allylic substrates, probably because of the sequential condensations (Table 1).  The product analysis with each allylic substrate by reversed phase TLC revealed that the major products of AtHEPS were Z,E‐mixed hexaprenyl diphosphate (C30), Z,E‐HepPP (C35) and Z,E‐mixed octaprenyl diphosphate (C40) (Fig. 5). Notably, Z,E‐HepPP was the predominant product, which was independent of the chain length of allylic substrates tested. In conclusion, AtHEPS has been identified as a novel Z,E‐HepPP synthase in seed plants and may be responsible for the synthesis of short‐chain betulaprenols.  [[FIGURE]] To elucidate the enzymatic function of the Z,E‐HepPP synthase AtHEPS in vivo, functional complementation of the cPT mutant of S. cerevisiae by the expression of AtHEPS was conducted. The mutant strain SNH23‐7D containing a mutation in a yeast cPT, RER2, displays some phenotypes caused by dolichol deficiency such as slow and temperature‐sensitive growth and defects in protein glycosylation CITATION. As indicated in Fig. 6, the mutant strain SNH23‐7D had slow growth at 23 °C compared with the WT strain SNY9 and hardly grew at 37 °C. Expression of AtHEPS could partially suppress the slow growth phenotype under the permissive temperature of 23 °C and the temperature‐sensitive phenotype under the restricted temperature of 37 °C. These results suggested that AtHEPS could act as a cPT instead of Rer2p in vivo, and their products could function as a precursor of glycosyl carrier lipid in S. cerevisiae.  [[FIGURE]] Because Rer2p localizes in the ER CITATION, AtHEPS was also expected to localize in the ER. Subcellular localization of AtHEPS in plant cells was analyzed by the fluorescent imaging of AtHEPS fused in‐frame with synthetic green fluorescent protein sGFP(S65T) CITATION expressed in T87 Arabidopsis cultured cells CITATION. In the sGFP‐expressing cells, the fluorescent signal was observed in the nucleus and cytosol, which was a typical pattern of GFP localization (Fig. 7A), while the fluorescence of AtHEPS‐sGFP was observed as a network pattern, which was similar to a typical pattern of some ER‐localized proteins (Fig. S3A). Subcellular localization of AtHEPS on the ER was also suggested by the specific detection of AtHEPS‐sGFP in the microsomal fraction extracted from the T87 cells by western blotting using a GFP antibody (Fig. S3B). To confirm the localization of AtHEPS on the ER, mCherry, a red fluorescent protein, fused to an N‐terminal ER signal peptide and a C‐terminal ER‐retention signal HDEL (SP‐mCherry‐HDEL) was co‐expressed with AtHEPS‐sGFP in the T87 cells. In contrast to the chlorophyll autofluorescence observed in sGFP‐expressing cells (Fig. 7B), the red fluorescence emitted from mCherry‐HDEL in the co‐transformed cells showed a typical ER network pattern (Fig. 7E). Superimposition of the fluorescence images revealed that the green fluorescence signal from AtHEPS‐sGFP (Fig. 7D) was mostly co‐localized with red fluorescence signal from mCherry‐HDEL (Fig. 7F). These results indicated that AtHEPS functioned in the ER of Arabidopsis cells. Thus, detection of the activity of the recombinant AtHEPS in both membrane and soluble fractions of E. coli and yeast (Fig. 2) may show mislocalization of the protein in a heterologous expression system.  [[FIGURE]] Although the physiological significance of short‐chain betulaprenols has not yet been elucidated, short‐chain betulaprenols in silver birch are supposed to provide the trunk with mechanical resistance against frost‐caused breaks in cold climates CITATION. To investigate the involvement of AtHEPS in response to such environmental stimuli in A. thaliana, the detailed expression pattern of AtHEPS in root tissues under cold stress and ABA treatments was investigated, because AtHEPS was shown to be predominantly expressed in roots (Table S1). The expression level of AtHEPS oscillated slightly under the long‐day light conditions (Fig. 8, Control and Mock). After the ABA treatment, AtHEPS was induced rapidly within 2 h and then decreased to basal levels. In contrast, AtHEPS was induced by cold treatment in a time‐dependent manner until 16 h after the treatment was initiated, where the magnitude of the induction was higher than that by the ABA treatment. These results strongly suggest that AtHEPS and its products may have a role in response to cold stress in root.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! A full‐length cDNA for AtHEPS (At5g58780) and Arabidopsis T87 cultured cells were provided by RIKEN BRC through the National Bio‐Resource Project of the MEXT, Japan. The expression vector pJR1133 was kindly provided by A. Ferrer (University of Barcelona, Spain). The S. cerevisiae strain SNY9 (MATα, Δmfα1::ADE2, Δmfα2::TRP1, Δmfα1::HIS3, ura3, trp1, ade2, his3, lys2, leu2, lys2) and SNH23‐7D strain (MATα, rer2‐2 Δmfα1::ADE2, Δmfα2::TRP1, Δmfα1::HIS3, ura3, trp1, ade2, his3, lys2, leu2, lys2) were kindly provided by A. Nakano (RIKEN, Japan). The sGFP(S65T) CITATION expression binary vector based on pBE2113Not CITATION was kindly provided by Y. Niwa (University of Shizuoka, Japan). The Gateway plant vinary vector pGWB502Ω CITATION was kindly provided by T. Nakagawa (Shimane University). [1‐14C]IPP (specific activity, 59 Ci·mol−1) was purchased from GE Healthcare (Buckinghamshire, UK). Non‐labeled IPP, GPP, E,E‐FPP, E,E,E‐GGPP and Z,E,E‐GGPP were synthesized according to Davisson et al. CITATION. All other chemicals were analytical grade.  The full‐length AtHEPS CDS was amplified by PCR (AtcPT5‐S, 5′‐GCCGGATCCATGTTGTCTATTCTCTC‐3′; AtcPT5‐A, 5′‐ACAGGATCCAGCAGAGGATCAAACC‐3′; BamHI sites are underlined). The PCR product was subcloned into the BamHI site of pGEX‐4T‐1 (GE Healthcare), pCold TF (Takara Bio, Ohtsu, Japan). E. coli BL21 was transformed with the resulting constructs, pGEX‐4T‐1‐AtcPT5 and pCold TF‐AtcPT5, and cultured to mid‐stationary phase in LB medium containing 50 μg·mL−1 ampicillin at 37 °C with vigorous aeration. Overexpression of the protein in strain pGEX‐4T‐1‐AtcPT5/BL21 was induced by adding isopropyl β‐d‐thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) to a concentration of 1 mm and then incubated at 18 °C for 24 h. Overexpression of the protein in pCold TF‐AtcPT5/BL21 was induced by cold shock supplemented with 1 mm IPTG and then incubating at 15 °C for 24 h. The harvested cells were lysed by lysozyme (Sigma‐Aldrich, St Louis, MO, USA), disrupted by sonications, and divided into supernatant (soluble fraction) and pellet (insoluble fraction) by centrifugation at 7903 g for 15 min at 4 °C. The expressed TF and His6‐tag fusion proteins were affinity purified on HisTrap HP (GE Healthcare) from the soluble fraction of pCold TF‐AtcPT5/BL21. The column was washed with 20 mm phosphate buffer containing 20 mm imidazole and fusion proteins were eluted in 1 mL of 20 mm phosphate buffer containing 200 mm imidazole and then dialyzed with 100 mm Tris/HCl (pH 7.5). The tag sequence was cleaved from AtHEPS by the treatment of thrombin (40 unit·mL−1) (GE Healthcare) at 10 °C for 2 h. The cleavage reaction was stopped by the addition of Complete Protease Inhibitor Cocktail (Roche, Basel, Switzerland), and then thrombin was removed by HiTrap Benzamidine FF (GE Healthcare). The partially purified proteins were separated by SDS/PAGE. Protein concentrations were measured by Protein Assay Kit (Bio‐Rad, Hercules, CA, USA) with BSA as the standard.  The full‐length AtHEPS CDS was amplified by PCR (AtcPT5‐S and AtcPT5‐A) and subcloned in the BamHI site of pJR1133, which contains the URA3 marker CITATION. S. cerevisiae SNH23‐7D was transformed with pJR1133‐AtcPT5 by the lithium acetate procedure CITATION and selected on minimal medium containing 0.17% (w/v) yeast nitrogen base without amino acids, 0.5% (w/v) ammonium sulfate, 2% (w/v) glucose, 60 μg·mL−1 leucine and 30 μg·mL−1 lysine, at 23 °C. For controls, SNH23‐7D and SNY9 were transformed with pJR1133 and selected respectively. Ura+ transformants were cultured in minimal medium until D600 reached 1.5. Cell lysates from these strains were prepared according to the procedure described previously CITATION and then centrifuged at 300 g for 5 min to remove unbroken cells. Supernatants were further centrifuged at 13 000 g for 10 min and then divided into supernatant (soluble fraction) and pellet (insoluble fraction).  The assay mixture for the crude fraction of E. coli contained 100 mm Tris/HCl (pH 7.5), 1 mm MgCl2, 1 mm dithiothreitol (DTT), 10 μm E,E‐FPP, 41.5 μm IPP, 8.5 μm [1‐14C]IPP (specific activity, 59 Ci·mol−1) and 50 μg proteins in a final volume of 100 μL. The assay mixture for the crude fraction of S. cerevisiae contained 25 mm sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.4), 4 mm MgCl2, 20 mm KF, 20 mm β‐mercaptoethanol, 14 μm E,E‐FPP, 50 μm [1‐14C]IPP (specific activity, 59 Ci·mol−1) and 100 μg proteins in a final volume of 100 μL. After incubation at 30 °C for 1 h for E. coli crude fractions or 2 h for S. cerevisiae crude fractions, the mixture was washed with 1 mL of diethylether after the addition of 200 μL of saturated NaCl solution. The reaction products were extracted from the aqueous phase with 1 mL of water‐saturated 1‐butanol, and then the radioactivity in 1‐butanol extracts was measured with a liquid scintillation counter (Packard 1600TR, PerkinElmer, Waltham, MA, USA). For the product analysis, radioactive prenyl diphosphate products were hydrolyzed to corresponding alcohols according to the method described earlier CITATION. In brief, the reaction solution contained 40 mm acetate buffer (pH 5.6), 0.1% (v/v) Triton X‐100, 40% (v/v) methanol and potato acid phosphatase (Sigma) in a final volume of 1 mL. The mixture was incubated at 37 °C for 12 h. The resulting alcohols were extracted with pentane and analyzed by reversed phase TLC (LKC‐18; Whatman, Maidstone, Kent, UK) with a solvent system of acetone/water (39 : 1). Positions of authentic standards were visualized with iodine vapor, and distribution of radioactivity was analyzed with a Bio‐image analyzer BAS 1000 (Fuji Film, Tokyo, Japan).  The assay mixture for the partially purified AtHEPS contained 100 mm Tris/HCl (pH 7.5), 1 mm MgCl2, 20 mm β‐mercaptoethanol, 0.1% (v/v) Triton X‐100, 10 μm FPP, 50 μm [1‐14C]IPP (specific activity, 5 Ci·mol−1) and 0.42 μg proteins in a final volume of 100 μL. After incubation at 30 °C for 12 h, the reaction products were extracted with 1‐butanol, mixed with scintillation mixture and subjected to liquid scintillation counting as mentioned above.  The standard assay mixture in kinetics studies with the partially purified AtHEPS contained 100 mm Tris/HCl (pH 7.5), 1 mm MgCl2, 20 mm β‐mercaptoethanol, 0.1% (v/v) Triton X‐100, 1 μg protein and substrates, [1‐14C]IPP (specific activity, 10 Ci·mol−1) and allylic diphosphates, in a final volume of 50 μL. The concentration of allylic diphosphate or homoallylic diphosphate IPP was varied, while the counter substrate IPP or allelic diphosphate was kept constant, respectively. The mixture was incubated at 30 °C for 2 h and then reaction products were extracted with water‐saturated 1‐butanol and the radioactivity in butanol extract was measured with a liquid scintillation counter (Packard 1600TR). The kcat value was determined from the amounts of radioactivity incorporated into 1‐butanol‐extractable products when [1‐14C]IPP and the indicated allylic substrate were used. Kinetics parameters were calculated by nonlinear regression analysis using enzymekinetics software, version 1.5 (Trinity Software, Campton, NH, USA).  To construct a plant binary plasmid for expression of AtHEPS fused in‐frame with sGFP(S65T) at C‐terminus, the full‐length AtHEPS CDS was amplified by PCR using a set of primers (AtcPT5‐S, 5′‐GCCGGATCCATGTTGTCTATTCTCTC‐3′; AtcPT5‐A3 for GFP, 5′‐CAGAGGATCCAACCCGACAGC‐3′; BamHI site underlined). The resulting fragment was subcloned in the BamHI site of binary vector pBE2113Not harboring sGFP(S65T). The chimeric gene encoding SP‐mCherry‐HDEL was prepared based on the construct reported earlier CITATION. The full‐length mCherry CDS was amplified by PCR using a set of primers: ERSP‐mCherry‐Fw, 5′‐CACCATGGCCAGACTCACAAGCATCATTGCCCTCTTCGCAGTGGCTCTGCTGGTTGCAGATGCGTACGCCTACCGCACCATGGTGAGCAAGGGCG‐3′ (a nucleotide sequence encoding the signal peptide of pumpkin 2S albumin underlined); mCherry‐HDEL‐Rv, 5′‐GGTACCTCAAAGCTCATCGTGGTGGTGGTGGTGGTGCCCCCCCCCAGATCTCTTGTACAGCTCGTCCATG‐3′ (a nucleotide sequence encoding a peptide including ER‐retention signal HDEL underlined). The resulting fragment was subcloned into Gateway entry vector pENTR/D‐TOPO (Life Technologies, Carlsbad, CA, USA). The chimeric gene was transferred from the entry clone to Gateway binary vector pGWB502Ω by LR reaction as described by the manufacturer's instructions (Life Technologies). A. thaliana T87 cultured cells CITATION were transformed by co‐cultivation with Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101(pMP90) carrying the resulting construct, as described previously CITATION. For fluorescence imaging, the transgenic T87 cell lines were observed under a BX61 microscope equipped with a confocal scanning system (Fluoview FV1000; Olympus, Tokyo, Japan) using filter sets for GFP (excitation at 473 nm, emission at 510 nm) and red fluorescent protein (RFP) (excitation at 559 nm, emission at 583 nm).  The transgenic T87 cultured cells expressing AtHEPS‐sGFP or sGFP were homogenized by mortar and pestle under liquid nitrogen with 400 μL of the extraction buffer containing 50 mm Tris/HCl (pH 7.5), 5 mm MgCl2, 50 mm KCl, 3 mm DTT, 5% (w/v) glycerol and Complete Protease Inhibitor Cocktail. Cell lysates were centrifuged at 15 000 rpm for 30 min, and the resulting supernatants were additionally centrifuged at 107 000 g for 40 min. Resulting supernatants were collected as soluble cytosol fractions. The deposits were washed with the extraction buffer and resuspended with 50 μL extraction buffer as the microsomal fraction. These fractions were separated by SDS/PAGE (13%) and blotted onto poly(vinylidene difluoride) membrane. Immunodetection was performed with the horseradish‐peroxidase‐conjugated GFP antibody (Nacalai Tesque, Kyoto, Japan) with an enhancer solution Can Get Signal Buffer II (Toyobo, Osaka, Japan), detected by ECL‐Plus Western Blotting Detection Reagents (GE Healthcare).  A. thaliana (Col‐0) seedlings grown on MS plate under long‐day conditions at 22 °C for 23 days were transferred to a liquid MS medium (Mock), a liquid MS medium containing 100 μm ABA (ABA) and a liquid MS medium pre‐chilled and kept at 4 °C (Cold). After the treatments for 1, 2, 5, 10, 16 and 24 h, the seedlings were collected. Total RNA was extracted from roots by the method based on the procedure of Extract‐A‐Plant RNA Isolation Kit (Clontech, Mountain View, CA, USA). Transcripts in each sample were quantified by semi‐quantitative RT‐PCR, using first‐strand cDNAs, synthesized from total RNA by PrimeScript II 1st strand cDNA synthase Kit (Takara Bio) using an oligo (dT) primer, as templates with a primer set for AtHEPS (AtcPT5S2, forward primer 5′‐agatccaatatttccaaagag‐3′; AtcPT5A3, reverse primer 5′‐agaatgatctctgactgtgg‐3′) and for a β‐tubulin TUB4 (At5g44340) (TUB4S, forward primer 5′‐ttgctgtcttcgtttccctgg‐3′; TUB4A, reverse primer 5′‐gagggtgccattgacaacatc‐3′). The resulting PCR products were analyzed by agarose gel electrophoresis. 
