!~ABS~! Cuticular waxes are synthesized by the extensive export of intracellular lipids from epidermal cells. However, it is still not known how hydrophobic cuticular lipids are exported to the plant surface through the hydrophilic cell wall. The LTPG2 gene was isolated based on Arabidopsis microarray analysis; this gene is predominantly expressed in stem epidermal peels as compared with in stems. The expression of LTPG2 transcripts was observed in various organs, including stem epidermis and silique walls. The composition of the cuticular wax was significantly altered in the stems and siliques of the ltpg2 mutant and ltpg1 ltpg2 double mutant. In particular, the reduced level of the C29 alkane, which is the major component of cuticular waxes in ltpg1 ltpg2 stems and siliques, was similar to the sum of reduced values of either parent. The total cuticular wax load was reduced by approximately 13% and 20% in both ltpg2 and ltpg1 ltpg2 siliques, respectively, and by approximately 14% in ltpg1 ltpg2 stems when compared with the wild-type. Similarly, severe alterations in the cuticular layer structure of epidermal cells of ltpg2 and ltpg1 ltpg2 stems and silique walls were observed. In tobacco epidermal cells, intracellular trafficking of the fluorescent LTPG/LTPG1 and LTPG2 to the plasma membrane was prevented by a dominant-negative mutant form of ADP-ribosylation factor 1, ARF1(T31N). Taken together, these results indicate that LTPG2 is functionally overlapped with LTPG/LTPG1 during cuticular wax export or accumulation and LTPG/LTPG1 and LTPG2 are targeted to the plasma membrane via the vesicular trafficking system.
!~RES~! LTPG2, a homolog of LTPG/LTPG1, was isolated based on the mRNA expression pattern in microarray analysis of Arabidopsis stem and stem epidermal peels (CITATION) and its protein structure similarity with LTPG/LTPG1 (CITATION, CITATION). LTPG2 (At3g43720) contains three different domains, which correspond to a signal peptide domain, a lipid transfer domain and a transmembrane domain (Fig. 1A). The signal peptide domain, which was predicted to be required for protein secretion, is composed of 18 amino acid residues (5–22 amino acid residues) at the N-terminal end. The lipid transfer domain contains eight highly conserved cysteine residues at positions 38, 48, 67, 68, 81, 83, 110 and 120. Finally, the C-terminal end (170–192 amino acid residues) was predicted to encode a transmembrane domain. According to the prediction of the potential C-terminal GPI-modification site (http://mendel.imp.ac.at/gpi/gpi_server.html, CITATION), the sequence position of the omega site is a serine at position 170. The transmembrane domain of LTPG2 was predicted to be cleaved and anchored with GPI in the ER and then the modified LTPG2 is targeted to the plasma membrane (Fig. 1B).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To investigate whether the LTPG2 gene also exhibits a higher expression level in stem epidermal peels than in stems, RT–PCR and quantitative real-time RT–PCR analyses were performed. As has been observed for LTPG/LTPG1, the expression levels of the LTPG2 transcripts were approximately 5-fold higher in the stem epidermal peels than in the stems (Fig. 1C, D). This result was consistent with the microarray results of Arabidopsis stem and stem epidermal peels (CITATION). To investigate the in planta role of the LTPG2 gene, T-DNA-inserted ltpg2-1 (SALK_016947), ltpg2-2 (SALK_100010) and ltpg2-3 (SALK_023228) Arabidopsis mutants were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (http://www.arabidopsis.org). The ltpg2-1, ltpg2-2 and ltpg2-3 alleles contain T-DNA insertions in the first exon, the third exon and the second intron of At3g43720, at positions +320, +1522 and +1388 bp relative to the transcriptional initiation site, respectively (Fig. 2A). No phenotypic alterations were visible during growth and development of all single mutants under normal growing conditions. To further investigate the functional relationships between LTPG/LTPG1 and LTPG2 in planta, double mutants were created by crossing ltpg2-1, ltpg2-2 and ltpg2-3 with null ltpg1 (Fig. 2A) (CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We examined the transcript levels of the LTPG/LTPG1 and LTPG2 genes in the single and double mutants. Total RNA was isolated from 3-week-old mature leaves of wild-type, single and double mutants, and then subjected to RT–PCR analysis. LTPG2 transcripts were expressed in the wild-type and ltpg1, while the ltpg2-1, ltpg2-2 and ltpg2-3 mutants did not contain any detectable LTPG2 transcripts. Both LTPG/LTPG1 and LTPG2 transcripts were not detected in all ltpg1 ltpg2 double-mutant alleles (Fig. 2B). When the levels of LTPG1 and LTPG2 transcripts in wild-type, ltpg1 and ltpg2-1 stems and silique walls were analyzed by quantitative RT–PCR, the level of the LTPG1 transcripts was increased by approximately 1.8-fold in the ltpg2-1 stem, but decreased by approximately 2-fold in ltpg2-1 silique walls compared with the wild-type (Fig. 2C). However, the levels of LTPG2 transcripts in ltpg1 stem and silique walls were not significantly changed relative to the wild-type level (Fig. 2C). To investigate the role of LTPG2 in cuticular wax export or accumulation and its functional relationship with LTPG/LTPG1, the cuticular waxes extracted from the stems, siliques and leaves of the wild-type and the ltpg1, ltpg2 and ltpg1 ltpg2 mutants were analyzed by using gas chromatography (GC) and GC–mass spectrometry (MS). The amount of C29 alkane (nonacosane), the major component of cuticular waxes in the stems and siliques, was reduced in all three ltpg2 knockout mutants (Supplementary Fig. S1). The amount of C29 alkane was decreased by 4.4% in ltpg2-1 stems and 19.6% in ltpg2-1 siliques when compared with the wild-type (Fig. 3A, B). The decreased proportion in ltpg1 ltpg2-1 stems and siliques reflects the sum of the reduced C29 alkane content of ltpg1 and ltpg2-1 single mutants, indicating that LTPG/LTPG1 and LTPG2 are functionally overlapped (Fig. 3A, B). No alteration in the C29 alkane content was observed in ltpg2-1 and ltpg1 ltpg2-1 leaves (Fig. 3C).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Interestingly, the amount of C29 secondary alcohol and C29 ketone was increased in ltpg1 stems and siliques, but not significantly altered in ltpg2-1 when compared with the wild-type. The amount of C29 secondary alcohol and C29 ketone in ltpg1 ltpg2-1 stems and siliques was similar to the sum of the changed value of the two single mutants (Fig. 3A, B). In addition, the amount of C28 and C30 aldehydes was not altered in ltpg2-1 stems, but was significantly reduced in ltpg2-1 siliques by approximately 38% and 35.1%, respectively, when compared with the wild-type. The reduced amount of C28 and C30 aldehydes and C27 alkane in ltpg1 ltpg2-1 stems and siliques was similar to the sum of the reduced values of the two single mutants (Fig. 3A, B). A similar reduction pattern in the amount of C28 aldehyde and C30 primary alcohol was observed in both ltpg2-1 and ltpg1 ltpg2-1 leaves (Fig. 3C). The total wax loads were reduced by approximately 14% in ltpg1 ltpg2-1 stems when compared with the wild-type (Fig. 3D). The total wax loads were also decreased in ltpg2-1 (∼13%) and ltpg1 ltpg2-1 (∼20%) siliques compared with in the wild-type (Fig. 3E). No change in the total wax amount was observed in both the ltpg single and double mutant leaves (Fig. 3F). These results indicate that LTPG/LTPG1 and LTPG2 might play a predominant role in different organs. In the analysis of cutin monomers, which are major extracellular lipid components, no significant differences in the total amounts were observed between the ltpg2 mutant and wild-type, and between the ltpg1 ltpg2 mutant and each single mutant. However, the composition of cutin monomers was altered in ltpg2-1 and ltpg1 ltpg2-1 mutants compared with the wild-type (Supplementary Fig. S2). Because the cuticle layer consisted of wax and cutin, changes in the cuticular wax composition and content in the mutants led us to predict that changes in the structure of the cuticular layers occurred. The ultrastructure of the cuticle layer of the stem and silique epidermal cells of the wild-type and the ltpg1, ltpg2-1 and ltpg1 ltpg2-1 mutants was observed using transmission electron microscopy (TEM). In accordance with the previous observation in ltpg1 (CITATION), the cuticular layers of ltpg2 and ltpg1 ltpg2-1 stem and silique epidermal cells were disorganized and more diffused, whereas the wild-type cuticle was thin and continuously electron dense. The thickness of the cuticle layer was increased by 11% and 34.5% in ltpg2-1 and ltpg1 ltpg2-1 stem epidermal cells when compared with the wild-type, respectively (Fig. 4A–H). In silique epidermal cells, the diffusion of the cuticle layers was more severe and the thickness of the cuticle layer was 2-fold greater in ltpg2-1 and 2.5-fold greater in ltpg1 ltpg2-1 than in the wild-type (Fig. 4I–P). Additionally, unusual phenotypes, such as accumulated starch and increased number of plastoglobules (Fig. 4Q–X), were observed in the chloroplasts of the ltpg2-1 and ltpg1 ltpg2-1 silique mesocarp.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] According to previous reports (CITATION, CITATION), GAPs are mainly found in the plasma membrane. Also, LTPG/LTPG1 was reported to be localized to the plasma membrane (CITATION, CITATION). Because LTPG2 harbors the GPI-anchored domain at its C-terminal end, we hypothesized that LTPG2 is localized to the plasma membrane. To verify the subcellular localization of LTPG2, the enhanced yellow fluorescent protein (EYFP) was inserted between the signal peptide and the LTP domain of the LTPG2 protein (between 37 and 38 amino acid residues, Fig. 5A), and then the resulting constructs were transiently introduced into tobacco epidermal cells via an Agrobacterium infiltration system. LTPG1:monomeric red fluorescent protein (mRFP), which was used as a positive control of plasma membrane localization, was co-infiltrated with LTPG2:EYFP and the fluorescent signals were visualized under a confocal fluorescence microscope. As expected, the LTPG1:mRFP and LTPG2:EYFP signals were perfectly merged in the plasma membrane (Fig. 5B–E). This result shows that LTPG2 is also localized in the plasma membrane, like other GAPs, including LTPG/LTPG1.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The GAPs are sorted from the ER to the plasma membrane by an intracellular secretory pathway and vice versa by endocytic pathways (CITATION). To assess the intracellular trafficking of LTPG/LTPG1 and LTPG2, LTPG1:EYFP or LTPG2:EYFP was co-expressed with either the ARF, which plays a role in the intracellular trafficking of cargo proteins, or the GDP-binding dominant-negative mutant form, ARF1(T31N) of ARF1, which disrupts vesicular trafficking (CITATION). The fluorescent signals from LTPG1:EYFP and LTPG2:EYFP in the co-expression of ARF1 were visualized in the plasma membrane (Fig. 5F, H). The signals were present in the intracellular space in the co-expression of ARF1(T31N) (Fig. 5G, I). Therefore, expression of ARF1(T31N) inhibited the intracellular trafficking of LTPG/LTPG1 and LTPG2, suggesting that LTPG1 and LTPG2 were targeted to the plasma membrane via the vesicular trafficking system. Total RNA was isolated from various organs, including the roots, young seedlings, rosette leaves, cauline leaves, stems, flowers and siliques, and then subjected to RT–PCR analysis to assess the expression of the LTPG2 transcripts. The LTPG2 transcripts were abundantly detected in all organs tested (Fig. 6A). Because the total cuticular wax content was significantly reduced in siliques of the ltpg2 mutant, quantitative real-time RT–PCR was also carried out to precisely compare the spatial expression level of LTPG2. The expression level of LTPG2 transcripts was much higher in the silique walls as well as the stem epidermal peels than in other tissues (Fig. 6B). When the levels of the LTPG/LTPG1 and LTPG2 transcripts were compared in the silique walls, they were found to be similar (Supplementary Fig. S3).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The amount of cuticular wax was shown to be increased by treatment with salt and drought stresses (CITATION). In order to evaluate whether the expression of LTPG2 is regulated by abiotic stresses and abscisic acid (ABA), 10-day-old seedlings were incubated in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 200 mM NaCl, 200 mM mannitol or 100 µM ABA, or exposed to dehydration stress. The RD29A gene (At5g52310), which is known to be a drought stress-inducible gene, was used as a control for the water-deficit response. Expression of the RD29A gene increased significantly in response to the treatments, whereas the level of the LTPG2 transcripts was not affected by salt and dehydration stresses or ABA (Supplementary Fig. S4). The spatial and temporal expression of the LTPG2 gene was further evaluated by introducing the β-d-glucuronidase (GUS) gene under the control of the LTPG2 promoter into Arabidopsis. Various organs from five independent transgenic lines were then stained for GUS expression. Strong GUS activity was observed in the aerial portions and root tips of the 10-day-old seedlings. When the stem and leaf tissues were cross-sectioned, the GUS gene was found to be expressed in the stem and leaf epidermis, including the trichomes, leaf mesophyll cells, and stem cortex and xylem. In addition, GUS expression was observed in the upper portion of the styles, anther filament, and veins of the sepals and petals. Furthermore, the silique walls and developing seeds were strongly stained (Fig. 6C–N).
!~MM~! All Arabidopsis ecotype backgrounds used in this study are Columbia (Col-0). The T-DNA-tagged mutants were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (http://www.arabidopsis.org). T-DNA homozygous lines were identified by using genotyping PCR. After seeds were imbibed at 4°C for 3 d, seed surfaces were sterilized in 70% (v/v) ethanol for 1 min and 20% (v/v) bleach for 5 min, followed by five washes with sterilized water. The sterilized seeds were aseptically germinated on 0.5 × MS medium supplemented with 1% (w/v) sucrose and 0.7% (w/v) agar. After 7 d, seedlings were transplanted to soil under the long day condition (16 h/8 h, light/dark) at 22°C. The double mutants were created by crossing each T-DNA homozygous line. In order to confirm the expression of LTPG2 from various Arabidopsis tissues, total RNA was isolated using the TRIzol reagent (Invitrogen) or a Nucleospin® RNA Plant Extraction Kit (Macherey-Nagel). Reverse transcription was conducted following the manufacturer’s protocols (Promega). PCR was then performed using gene-specific primers (Supplementary Table S1). For the quantitative analysis of RNA transcript levels, KAPA SYBR FAST qRT-PCR kit (KAPA Biosystem) and C1000™ thermal cycler (Bio-Rad) were utilized according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The total RNA from leaves was extracted for isolation of the T-DNA mutants and then RT–PCR was performed using gene-specific primers (Supplementary Table S1). To isolate the promoter region of LTPG2, a region upstream (1152 bp) from the translation start site was amplified from Arabidopsis genomic DNA using a specific primer containing HindIII and SalI restriction enzyme sites. The specific primers are described in Supplementary Table S1. The DNA fragment of the LTPG2 promoter was inserted into the pBI101 binary vector and then this construct was introduced into the wild-type by Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation using the vacuum infiltration method described by CITATION. Seeds that had been bulk harvested from each pot were then sterilized and germinated on 0.5 × MS agar medium supplemented with 50 µg ml−1 kanamycin and 100 µg ml−1 carbenicillin. The surviving T1 seedlings were subsequently transplanted into soil and used for further analyses. Young seedlings, rosette leaves, stems, flowers and developing siliques were incubated in GUS staining solution [100 mM sodium phosphate (pH 7.0), 1 mM 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-glucuronide, 0.5 mM potassium ferrocyanide, 0.5 mM potassium ferricyanide, 10 mM Na2EDTA and 0.1% (v/v) Triton X-100] at 37°C for 16 h. The chlorophyll of stained tissues was then removed using graded ethanol. Images were acquired using a Leica L2 microscope (Leica). To visualize the cross sections of stems and leaves, dehydrated samples were embedded in acrylic resin (LR White Resin, London Resin Company) and then 15–20-µm-thick sections were cut using a MT990 microtome (RMC). The tissue sections were observed and photographed under light microscopy (Leica L2). To produce a LTPG/LTPG1 coding sequence (CDS) fused with mRFP and a LTPG2 CDS fused with EYFP (LTPG2:EYFP), a triple template PCR was performed following the method described by CITATION. The ARF1 and ARF1(T31N) CDS were amplified using specific primers, ARF1-F and ARF1-R, from former transient constructs (CITATION). The LTPG1:mRFP and LTPG2:EYFP or ARF1 and ARF1(T31N) fragments were inserted into the pFAST vector (CITATION) through digestion with SmaI/BamHI or SacI/SacI restriction enzymes. The LTPG1:mRFP, LTPG2:EYFP, ARF1 and ARF1(T31N) binary vectors were introduced into the A. tumefaciens strain GV3101 by the freeze–thaw method (CITATION). To investigate the localization of LTPG/LTPG1 and LTPG2, Agrobacterium harboring the LTPG2:EYFP or LTPG1:mRFP vectors were co-injected at a concentration of OD600 = 0.8 in the abaxial side of Nicotiana benthamiana leaves. To examine trafficking in plant cells, Agrobacterium harboring the LTPG1:EYFP or LTPG2:EYFP vectors were co-infected with Agrobacterium harboring the ARF1 or ARF1(T31N) vectors in the abaxial side of N. benthamiana leaves. YFP and RFP fluorescence were analyzed using a TCS SP5 AOBS/tandem laser confocal scanning microscope (Leica) at 36–48 h after injection. For YFP and RFP, the excitation wavelengths were 514 and 561 nm, respectively, and the emitted fluorescence was collected at 518–553 and 573–616 nm, respectively. The cuticular waxes were extracted by immersing 15-cm-inflorescence stems or leaves in 5 ml of chloroform at room temperature for 30 s. n-Octacosane, docosanoic acid and 1-tricosanol were added as internal standards. The extracts were then dried by heating at 40°C under a gentle stream of nitrogen. The wax extracts were dissolved in bis-N,N-trimethylsilyl trifluoroacetamide (Sigma):pyridine (1:1, v/v) and then all of the hydroxyl-containing compounds were transformed into their corresponding trimethylsilyl derivatives at 90°C for 30 min. The samples were evaporated under nitrogen and dissolved in heptane:toluene (1:1, v/v). The qualitative composition was then evaluated by capillary GC–MS (GCMS-QP2010, Shimadzu, Japan; column 60 m HP-5, 0.32 mm i.d., df = 0.25 µm, Agilent) using a He carrier gas inlet pressure of 1.0 ml min−1 and a mass spectrometric detector (GCMS-QP2010, Shimadzu). The GC–MS protocol was as follows: injection at 220°C, maintenance of the temperature at 220°C for 4.5 min followed by an increase to 290°C at a rate of 3°C min−1. The temperature was maintained at 290°C for 10 min, after which it was raised to 300°C at a rate of 2°C min−1 and held for 10 min. Quantitative analysis of the mixtures was performed using capillary GC with a flame ionization detector under the same GC conditions described above. Single compounds were quantified against the internal standard by automatically integrating the peak areas. The upper part of 10-cm-inflorescence stems from 4- to 5-week-old plants was used for TEM analysis. Arabidopsis wild-type and ltpg1, ltpg2 and ltpg1 ltpg2 mutant stems and siliques were fixed in a fixation solution [2.5% glutaraldehyde, 2% paraformaldehyde in 0.1 M sodium carcodylate buffer (pH 7.4)] for 16 h at 4°C. They were then rinsed in 0.1 M sodium carcodylate buffer (pH 7.4) and further fixed in 1% (w/v) osmium tetroxide (OsO4) for 16 h at 4°C. After rinsing with 0.1 M sodium carcodylate buffer, the samples were dehydrated with graded ethanol and embedded in LR White Resin (London Resin Company). Thin sections (50–60-nm thicknesses) were then prepared using an ultramicrotome (RMC MT X) and collected on nickel grids (1-GN, 150 mesh). Next, these sections were stained with uranyl acetate and lead citrate, and examined under a transmission electron microscope (Tecnai 12, Philips).
