!~ABS~! In higher plants, cellulose is synthesized by so-called rosette protein complexes with cellulose synthases (CESAs) as catalytic subunits of the complex. The CESAs are divided into two distinct families, three of which are thought to be specialized for the primary cell wall and three for the secondary cell wall. In this article, the potential of primary and secondary CESAs forming a functional rosette complex has been investigated. The membrane-based yeast two-hybrid and biomolecular fluorescence systems were used to assess the interactions between three primary (CESA1, CESA3, CESA6), and three secondary (CESA4, CESA7, CESA8) Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) CESAs. The results showed that all primary CESAs can physically interact both in vitro and in planta with all secondary CESAs. Although CESAs are broadly capable of interacting in pairwise combinations, they are not all able to form functional complexes in planta. Analysis of transgenic lines showed that CESA7 can partially rescue defects in the primary cell wall biosynthesis in a weak cesa3 mutant. Green fluorescent protein-CESA protein fusions revealed that when CESA3 was replaced by CESA7 in the primary rosette, the velocity of the mixed complexes was slightly faster than the native primary complexes. CESA1 in turn can partly rescue defects in secondary cell wall biosynthesis in a cesa8ko mutant, resulting in an increase of cellulose content relative to cesa8ko. These results demonstrate that sufficient parallels exist between the primary and secondary complexes for cross-functionality and open the possibility that mixed complexes of primary and secondary CESAs may occur at particular times.
!~RES~! All possible combinations of one-to-one interactions between the primary CESAs (CESA1, CESA3, CESA6) and secondary CESAs (CESA4, CESA7, CESA8) were assessed using the split-ubiquitin MbYTH system (Dualsystems Biotech). Upon testing the interactions between the three primary CESA isoforms, the results show that all the primary CESAs were able to form both homodimers and heterodimers with all the other primary CESA isoforms (Fig. 1), confirming previous reports using bimolecular fluorescence (BiFC) analysis (CITATION). These protein interactions were carried out with each of the primary CESAs as bait and as prey, and both sets of experiments showed the same results (Fig. 1). The lack of growth in the negative controls indicated that the interactions were specific, as an unrelated protein expressed as prey and an empty prey vector (pADSL-Nx) were not able to activate the system. [[FIGURE]] In a second step, the interactions were determined between three members of the primary CESAs (CESA1, CESA3, CESA6) and the secondary CESAs (CESA4, CESA7, CESA8) using the same MbYTH system. Although with different interaction strength, the six primary and secondary CESAs all had the ability to form heterodimers in all possible combinations (Fig. 1). The BiFC technique offers the possibility of analyzing protein interactions in living plant cells (CITATION). To analyze the interaction between the three primary CESAs and the secondary CESAs in planta, the BiFC assays were used, and the results are shown in Figure 2. It was observed that yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) fluorescence was reconstituted for all of the combinations, indicating that all isoforms from the primary CESAs (CESA1, CESA3, CESA6) can interact with those of the secondary CESAs (CESA4, CESA7, CESA8). The intensity of the YFP signals was not the same for all combinations. Upon interaction of CESA3 and CESA7, a weaker signal was observed, which may indicate that dimerization is less stable. All the pairwise CESA combinations were carried out with each of the CESAs fused with the N and C terminus of the YFP, and both sets of experiments showed the same results. [[FIGURE]] To determine whether CESAs from the secondary complex could enter and function in the primary complex, a series of promoter-swap constructs were generated. Combinations of each of the primary promoters were placed upstream of each of the secondary CESA coding sequences, both with and without an N-terminal GFP. We named these constructs Px-Cy based on the promoter and coding sequence used. A construct containing the CESA1 promoter is P1, while one containing the coding sequence of CESA4 is C4, giving the combination of the two the name P1C4. If GFP is N-terminally fused, we place the letter “G” before the coding sequence. The fusions with GFP (P1-G-C4, P1-G-C7, P1-G-C8, P3-G-C4, P3-G-C7, P3-G-C8, P6-G-C4, P6-G-C7, and P6-G-C8) and without GFP (P1C4, P1C7, P1C8, P3C4, P3C7, P3C8, P6C4, P6C7, and P6C8) were transformed into the mutant lines corresponding to the promoter used. The CESA1 promoter constructs were transformed into the temperature-sensitive (ts) cesa1 mutant rsw1-1 (line P1-G-CY; c1ts), CESA3 promoter constructs were transformed into the weak (w) cesa3 mutant je5 (P3-G-CY; c3w), and CESA6 promoter constructs were transformed into the cesa6 null line prc (P6-G-CY; c6ko). In addition, the weak cesa3 mutant je5 was transformed with the P3-G-C3 construct (Fig. 3). [[FIGURE]] A partial rescue in the P3-G-C7 (c3w) line was observed (Fig. 4B). Etiolated seedlings of P3-G-C7 in je5 were not significantly different in hypocotyl length from Columbia plants or from P3-G-C3 (c3w) plants up to 2.5 d of growth. After 2.5 d, however, P3-G-C7 (c3w) does not elongate as rapidly as Columbia or P3-G-C3 (c3w; Fig. 4A). The CESA7 rescue of the cesa3 primary cell wall mutants without GFP was also incomplete (Supplemental Fig. S1). No rescue was apparent for either P6-G-C7 (c6ko) or P1-G-C7 (c1ts). The CESA4 and CESA8 constructs did not rescue any of the primary cell wall mutants, either with (data not shown) or without the N-terminal GFP (Supplemental Fig. S1). [[FIGURE]] Reverse transcription (RT)-PCR analysis of GFP transcript revealed that expression of the CESA7 gene in the P3-G-C7 (c3w) mutant was similar to expression of the CESA3 gene in the rescue c3w mutant (P3-G-C3), as shown in Supplemental Figure S2. Spinning-disk confocal microscopy analysis in 2.5-d-old P3-G-C7 (c3w) and P3-G-C3 (c3w) etiolated seedlings revealed GFP signal in Golgi bodies and in membrane particles (Fig. 5, A and B; Supplemental Movies S1 and S2). The velocity distributions of both P3-G-C7 (c3w) and P3-G-C3 (c3w) were calculated by tracking individual particles in time-lapse movies. This revealed that membrane particles were approximately half as abundant in P3-G-C7 (c3w) compared with P3-G-C3 (c3w). Interestingly, complexes in the P3-G-C7 (c3w) line migrated about 30% faster than P3-G-C3 (c3w) complexes, a difference that is significant at P < 0.001 in a two-tailed t test (Fig. 5C). This phenomenon was consistently observed across biological replicates (26 GFP-CESA3 control and 15 P3-G-C7 [c3w] plants) acquired across 7 d, tracking around 40,000 GFP-CESA3- and 11,000 GFP-CESA7-labeled complexes (Fig. 5, D and E; Table I). The number of plasma membrane-localized particles decreased for both P3-G-C3 (c3w) and P3-G-C7 (c3w) lines after 3.5 d of etiolation, but the decrease in particle number was far more pronounced in P3-G-C7 (c3w), making it difficult to track enough particles for an adequate characterization of particle velocity in P3-G-C7 (c3w) after 2.5 d of growth. Using the total distance traveled by all CESA complexes observed in cells of the P3-G-C7 (c3w) and GFP-CESA3 lines, we estimated the relative cellulose produced in those lines over the course of the movies. Tracked complexes in GFP-CESA3 traveled an average of 572,252 pixels (77.3 mm) per cell, compared with 421,133 pixels (56.9 mm) in P3-G-C7 (c3w). This estimated the cellulose content of P3-G-C7 (c3w) at around 26% lower than the content in the GFP-CESA3 control. Chemical determination of the cellulose content showed similar results of lower cellulose content in the P3-G-C7 mutant relative to the GFP-CESA3 control (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Movies were selected in which the membrane of a single cell spans the field of view. Three-minute movies were taken with frames captured at 2-s time intervals. Particles tracked for longer than 30 s were counted. The difference between P3-G-C7 and GFP-CESA3 is significant at P < 0.003. In P1-G-C4 (c1ts) and P1-G-C8 (c1ts) plants, confocal microscopy revealed fluorescence in Golgi bodies, but no membrane complexes were detected (Supplemental Movie S3). Additionally, small fluorescent bodies were faintly visible in focal planes at or near the plasma membrane that did not behave like linearly moving complexes and whose behavior resembled previously reported subpopulations of SMaCCs (Supplemental Movie S4). In P1-G-C7 (c1ts), the GFP-CESA7 signal in SMaCCs was more apparent when plants were grown at the restrictive temperature of 30°C (Supplemental Movie S4). To determine whether the failure of GFP-CESA7 to reach membrane complexes was due to the compromised CESA6 and CESA1 proteins in these mutant lines, or to competition from the wild-type CESA3, the P3-G-C7 construct was transformed into the wild type, generating line P3-G-C7 (WT). These lines did not have any noticeable phenotype (Supplemental Fig. S1), indicating that the incompleteness of the rescue in P3-G-C7 (c3w) was most likely not due to a dominant-negative effect of CESA7 expression. P3-G-C7 (WT) plants had strong GFP-CESA7 fluorescence in Golgi bodies but no signal from membrane complexes (Supplemental Movie S5). The same fluorescence patterns were observed when GFP-CESA7 was transformed into either prc or rsw1-1 and fluorescence was strongly visible in Golgi bodies but not visible in membrane complexes (data not shown). These lines retained their phenotypes: prc was radially swollen and dwarfed, as was rsw1-1 when grown at the restrictive temperature. This is consistent with the hypothesis that GFP-CESA7 is excluded from membrane complexes in the presence of a wild-type copy of CESA3, as both prc and rsw1-1 retain wild-type copies of CESA3. One cannot exclude the possibility that the GFP-CESA7-containing rosettes are somehow blocked in transport to the plasma membrane. The expression profile comparison between primary CESAs and secondary CESAs indicates that secondary CESAs are more stringently controlled; therefore, the promoter of CESA7 was chosen to be used in the promoter-swap constructs. The null mutants of CESA4, CESA7, and CESA8 (cesa4ko, cesa7ko, cesa8ko) were identified by PCR identification of the T-DNA flanking regions (for primers, see Supplemental Table S1). All the secondary promoter-swap constructs (P7C1, P7C3) were transformed into cesa4ko, cesa7ko, and cesa8ko. Among all the possible combinations, only P7C1 partially complemented the cesa8ko phenotype. The leaf morphologies of cesa4ko, cesa7ko, and cesa8ko were indistinguishable from each other, all displaying dark green and reduced leaf size (Supplemental Fig. S3). The leaf of P7C1 (cesa8ko) was reverted to almost its wild-type size. However, the margin of the leaf was not as even as that of the wild type (data not shown). The adult homozygous plants of cesa4ko, cesa7ko, and cesa8ko were dwarfed, mainly due to shorter internodes (Fig. 6). In addition, cesa4ko, cesa7ko, and cesa8ko were almost completely sterile. P7C1 (cesa8ko) partially recovered the elongation defect in internodes, and these recoveries were more obvious in the main stem. In addition, P7C1 plants were fully fertile. A deficiency in secondary cell wall cellulose deposition leads to collapsed xylem cells, as shown in irx1, irx3, and irx5 plants (CITATION). Examination of the stem sections from cesa8ko showed its collapsed xylem phenotype. The xylem cells in P7C1 (cesa8ko) showed a similar phenotype to the wild type, indicating that P7C1 complemented the collapsed xylem phenotype in cesa8ko (Fig. 7, A–C). In both stems and leaves, the cellulose content in cesa4ko, cesa7ko, and cesa8ko was reduced, confirming the results of CITATION. Lesions in IRX1, IRX3, or IRX5 plants resulted in a decrease in cellulose of more than 70% in stems (CITATION). Correlating with the morphological recovery, the cellulose content of P7C1 (cesa8ko) was increased in both stems and leaves (Fig. 7B), indicating that P7C1 functionally incorporated into the secondary CESA complexes. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The full-length complementary DNAs (cDNAs) from Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) were obtained from the RIKEN Bioresource Center (CITATION, CITATION): AtCESA1 (RAFL09-89-G08), AtCESA3 (RAFL05-19-M03), and AtCESA6 (RAFL05-02-P19) as well as AtCESA4 (RAFL15-30-K05), AtCESA7 (RAFL09-35-F05), and AtCESA8 (RAFL09-65-M12; CITATION). The cDNAs of the CESA genes were amplified by PCR using the Phusion DNA Polymerase (Finnzymes) with the primers listed in Supplemental Table S1. The resulting PCR products were digested and ligated into the pTFB1 vector (bait) and the pADSL-Nx vector (prey; Dualsystems Biotech). Bait and prey expression was regulated by the TEF1 and ADH1 promoters, respectively. The sequences of the inserts were confirmed by Sanger sequence analysis. The bait and prey proteins were fused N terminally to the Cub transcription factor reporter cassette of the vector pTFB1 and the NubG cassette of the vector pADSL-Nx, respectively. The interactions between the CESA proteins were assayed using the split-ubiquitin MbYTH system (CITATION; CITATION) with the yeast strain NYM51 in the Split Ubiquitin System kit (Dualsystems Biotech). The assays were performed according to supplier instructions (DUAL Membrane Kit 1). This system (CITATION; CITATION) was used to detect interaction between the CESAs, in which each CESA was fused to the Cub-coding sequence of vector pTFB1 (bait), the Cub transcription factor, and the NubG-coding sequence of vector pADSL-Nx (prey; CITATION). The yeast resident endoplasmic reticulum protein ALG5 fused to NubG was used as a negative control. Coexpression of the bait proteins with prey protein ALG5-NubG should not result in an interaction, and therefore not in activation of the system, as it is not involved in the pathways of interest. As a positive control, the ALG5 protein was fused to the wild-type ubiquitin domain. In contrast to the I13G mutant (NubG), the wild-type N-terminal ubiquitin domain (NubI) can readily interact with the C-terminal ubiquitin domain. Thus, the coexpression of the bait, containing CUB, with a prey fused to NubI will lead to an interaction and therefore may be used to test for bait expression and accessibility without the need for the fused proteins to interact. Interactions were quantified by 100 colonies spotted on synthetic dextrose medium (lacking Leu, Trp, His, and adenine) containing the appropriate concentration of 3-ammonium-triazole, as reported by CITATION, and grown at 30°C for 5 d, after which the number of spots grown was scored. The bait was also screened using the inhibitor (3-ammonium-triazole) in the selection medium to rule out autoactivation. Detection of β-galactosidase activity was performed with the filter-lift assay. All experiments have been performed in quadruplicate for independent biological replicates. Having two different auxotrophic markers for selection increased the reliability of the system in that the prey had to circumvent two different pathways to autoactivate the system as well as a colorimetric marker. The full-length cDNAs of the CESA genes were generated through Phusion DNA Polymerase (Finnzymes) with suitable primers (CITATION; CITATION; Supplemental Table S1). Coding sequences of the CESAs were cloned into the Gateway-compatible destination vectors pBIFc-2 and pBIFc-3 plasmids regulated by the constitutive 35S promoter (CITATION). The N-terminal and C-Terminal fragments of YFP were both fused to the N terminus of the coding sequences of the CESAs. As a positive control, the aquaporin PIP2-1 (CITATION; CITATION) was used, as aquaporins are known to form homotetramers in the plasma membrane (CITATION). As a negative control, the PIP2-1 chimera was coexpressed with the corresponding CESA constructs. The BiFC screen was used to analyze in planta the interaction between the different CESA proteins. All possible combinations between the three primary and three secondary CESAs were analyzed with this method: YFP/N-CESA1/YFP/C-CESA4, YFP/N-CESA1/YFP/C-CESA7, YFP/N-CESA1/YFP/C-CESA8, YFP/N-CESA3/YFP/C-CESA4, YFP/N-CESA3/YFP/C-CESA7, YFP/N-CESA3/YFP/C-CESA8, YFP/N-CESA6/YFP/C-CESA4, YFP/N-CESA6/YFP/C-CESA7, and YFP/N-CESA6/YFP/C-CESA8. These interactions were also tested in the reverse combination, with both the C and N termini of the YFP. Leaves of 3-week-old tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) plants were infiltrated following transformation with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 pMP90 (CITATION) by transient coexpression of the desired protein pairs (CITATION). YFP fluorescence was detected 3 d after infiltration using the 514-nm laser line of a SP2 AOBS confocal laser scanning microscope (Leica) equipped with an argon laser. To check the YFP reconstitution, spectral analysis was performed with the 496-nm laser line. All experiments were carried out in triplicate. Using the same full-length cDNA genes previously indicated, the coding sequence for each CESA (CESA4, -7, and -8) was amplified using Phusion DNA Polymerase (Finnzymes) with primers suitable for the Gateway BP cloning reaction. These were inserted into pDONR207 through a BP reaction. CESA7 was amplified with Phusion DNA Polymerase, an adenine overhang added through 30 min of incubation with Taq polymerase at 72°C, and inserted into the PCR8 TOPO vector from Invitrogen. All three pDONR vectors were inserted into destination vectors carrying the 2-kb upstream promoter region of each of the primary CESA and the coding sequence from GFP immediately prior to the attR recombination sites (CITATION). The final vectors were sequenced over the entire length of their CESA coding region to confirm that no point mutations were present and to confirm that the GFP-CESA fusion was in frame. These constructs were made with N-terminal GFP fusions as well as untagged versions of the constructs. This resulted in two sets of nine constructs that were termed PX-G-CY for the fusion of the promoter for CESA X to the GFP-fused coding sequence of CESA Y (P1-G-C4, P1-G-C7, P1-G-C8, P3-G-C3, P3-G-C4, P3-G-C7, P3-G-C8, P6-G-C4, P6-G-C7, and P6-G-C8) and PX-CY for the untagged constructs (P1C4, P1C7, P1C8, P3C4, P3C7, P3C8, P6C4, P6C7, and P6C8) to designate the promoter (P) driving the coding sequence (C) in each construct. CESA1 promoter constructs were transformed into the temperature-sensitive cesa1 mutant rsw1-1 [line P1-G-CY (c1ts)], CESA3 promoter constructs were transformed into the weak cesa3 mutant je5 [P3-G-CY (c3w)], and CESA6 promoter constructs were transformed into the CESA6 null line prc [P6-G-CY (c6ko)] through the floral dip method (CITATION). These constructs and lines are illustrated in Figure 1. Fourteen transgenic P3-G-C7 and 27 P6-G-C7 lines were identified by genotyping. Ten lines from each type of transformant were investigated for the presence of fluorescence, with seven P3-G-C7 lines and 10 P6-G-C7 lines having visible fluorescence. Two lines of each were selected for further in-depth analysis. We identified 30 transgenic lines for each construct by genotyping; all were investigated for fluorescence, with only a few lines found to display weak fluorescence for each construct. The CESA7 promoter was amplified using the primers indicated in Supplemental Table S1. The amplified CESA7 promoter was inserted into PCR8 TOPO (Invitrogen). Sequence-confirmed PCR8-pCESA7 was digested using SmaI/XbaI and inserted into pGW2 vector (CITATION) to replace the 35S promoter. The full-length cDNAs of CESA1 and CESA3 were PCR amplified and cloned into pDONR-zeo using the primers listed in Supplemental Table S1. CESA1 and CESA3 were then inserted to destination vectors containing the 2-kb CESA7 promoter using LR clonase II (Invitrogen). The identification of secondary cesa knockout lines from the SIGNAL collection (http://signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/tdnaexpress) was based on a combination of database searches and PCR amplification of T-DNA flanking regions. For T-DNA lines identified from the SIGNAL collection, seeds were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. PCR was carried out to identify single plants for the T-DNA insertion. Primers used for T-DNA genotyping of CESA alleles are listed in Supplemental Table S1. The secondary cesa Arabidopsis homozygous mutants used in this study included irx1-5, irx3-4, and irx5-4 (CITATION). Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia seeds and various mutant lines were sterilized and germinated on Murashige and Skoog (MS) plates (one-half-strength MS salts, 0.8% agar, and 0.05% MES, pH 5.7). Seedlings were then grown vertically on the agar at 22°C under continuous light for 5 d before being transferred to pots in a greenhouse at 22°C under a 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle. Total RNA was isolated from Arabidopsis seedlings using the RNAeasy Mini Kit (Qiagen). RT and PCR amplification were performed. For GFP amplification, 30 cycles of PCR amplification (94°C for 30 s, 54°C for 30 s, and 72°C for 1 min) were performed using the primers shown below. As PCR amplification and loading controls, the same template cDNA was amplified using primers for the constitutive ACTIN2 (ACT2) gene. The primers used for RT-PCR analysis were as follows: 5′GFP, 5′-ATGGTGAGCAAGGGCGAGGA-3′; 3′GFP, 5′-TACAGCTCGTCCATGCCGTGA-3′; 5′ACT2, 5′-ATGGCTGAGGCTGATGATAT-3′; 3′ACT2, 5′-TTAGAAACATTTTCTGTGAAC-3′. Rosette leaves or stems were harvested and ground in liquid nitrogen. After overnight extraction in 80% ethanol at 65°C in a water bath, tissues were exchanged with acetone. Dry cell wall materials were ball milled to a fine powder. Cellulose was measured as described by CITATION. Data were collected from five technical replicates for each tissue sample. Experiments were repeated twice. Stems from Arabidopsis were hand cut by a razor blade and stained in 0.02% toluidine blue O as described previously (CITATION). Stem sections were rinsed, mounted in water, and viewed with a compound microscope (Leitz DMRB; Leica). Around five individual plants were examined for each line. For analyses of GFP-CESA proteins expressed in the promoter-swap lines, seeds were germinated on MS agar plates and grown vertically in darkness for 3 d at 22°C. Seedlings were mounted between two coverslips in water. Imaging was performed on a Yokogawa CSUX1 spinning-disk system featuring the DMI6000 Leica motorized microscope and a Leica 100×/1.4 numerical aperture oil objective. GFP was excited at 488 nm, and a band-pass filter (520/50 nm) was used for emission filtering. Image analysis was performed using Metamorph (Molecular Devices) and Imaris (Bitplane) software. Movies were collected on 7 d, without a consistent pattern regarding which lines were imaged first. Movies were taken at ambient temperatures. On none of the 7 d did the average recorded GFP-CESA3 control velocity exceed the velocity of the P3C7 lines recorded on that day. The lower number of P3-G-C7 movies compared with GFP-CESA3 occurs because the weaker signal makes it more difficult to maintain the focal plane appropriately. An approximately equal number of acquisitions were attempted for each, with poor-focal-quality movies discarded during postprocessing. Image analysis was performed with ImageJ (CITATION) and Imaris software. Movies were first contrast enhanced in ImageJ, and a walking average of four frames was taken using the kymograph plugin for ImageJ. These steps were performed to improve the accuracy of automated particle recognition performed in subsequent steps. These images were then opened in Imaris 6.2.1 and switched from Z-series to time series. The voxel size was set to 135 nm per voxel based on measurements from the scope, and the time interval was set to 5 s. The particle-recognition algorithm in Imaris was performed with a spot size of 250 nm. High-intensity signal was filtered to eliminate Golgi signal. Following this, the connected components program was run, which determines particle identity over several frames and converts a particle’s movement into tracks. All tracks present for less than 60 s (12 frames) were discarded. The displacement and duration of the remaining tracks were exported to a spreadsheet, and their average velocity, distribution of velocities, and any directional bias were calculated. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Rescues from secondary swap constructs without N-terminal GFP fusion. Supplemental Figure S2. RT-PCR analysis of GFP expression in P3-G-C7 plants. Supplemental Figure S3. Leaf morphology of secondary cesa mutants and various transgenic lines. Supplemental Table S1. DNA primers used in the study. Supplemental Movie S1. GFP-CESA3 particles observed at the plasma membrane of a P3-G-C3 (c3w) plant. Supplemental Movie S2. GFP-CESA7 particles observed at the plasma membrane of a P3-G-C7 (c3w) plant. Supplemental Movie S3. Incorporation of CESA4 and CESA8 protein into complexes is minimal. Supplemental Movie S4. GFP-CESA7 is observed in Golgi bodies and SMaCCs of a P1-G-C7 (c1ts) plant imaged at the restrictive temperature of 30°C. Supplemental Movie S5. GFP-CESA7 is observed in Golgi bodies of a P3-G-C7 (WT) plant.
