!~ABS~! Nucleotide sugar transporters (NSTs) are antiporters comprising a gene family that plays a fundamental role in the biosynthesis of complex cell wall polysaccharides and glycoproteins in plants. However, due to the limited number of related mutants that have observable phenotypes, the biological function(s) of most NSTs in cell wall biosynthesis and assembly have remained elusive. Here, we report the characterization of AtUTr7 from Arabidopsis ( Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh.), which is homologous to multi-specific UDP–sugar transporters from Drosophila melanogaster , humans, and Caenorhabditis elegans . We show that AtUTr7 possesses the common structural characteristics conserved among NSTs. Using a green fluorescent protein (GFP) tagged version, we demonstrate that AtUTr7 is localized in the Golgi apparatus. We also show that AtUTr7 is widely expressed, especially in the roots and in specific floral organs. Additionally, the results of an in vitro nucleotide sugar transport assay carried out with a tobacco and a yeast expression system suggest that AtUTr7 is capable of transferring UDP–Gal and UDP–Glc, but not a range of other UDP– and GDP–sugars, into the Golgi lumen. Mutants lacking expression of AtUTr7 exhibited an early proliferation of lateral roots as well as distorted root hairs when cultivated at high sucrose concentrations. Furthermore, the distribution of homogalacturonan with a low degree of methyl esterification differed in lateral root tips of the mutant compared to wild-type plants, although additional analytical procedures revealed no further differences in the composition of the root cell walls. This evidence suggests that the transport of UDP–Gal and UDP–Glc into the Golgi under conditions of high root biomass production plays a role in lateral root and root hair development.
!~RES~! Phylogenetic analysis of NSTs from Arabidopsis shows that the gene At4g31600 is a homolog of NSTs that have multisubstrate specificity ( [fig1] ). Alignment of the deduced protein sequence with SQV-7, FRC, and hUGTrel7 reveals that the Arabidopsis protein shares between 27 and 31% amino acid identity with these NSTs ( [fig1] ). Due to its putative function as a UDP–sugar transporter, and its more distant relationship to the Arabidopsis GDP–mannose transporter, GONST1 ( [bib3] ), we designated the new gene AtUTr7 , because another group of putative UDP–sugar transporters, AtUTr1-6, had been described previously ( [bib69] ). Comparison of the AtUTr7 cDNA with the genomic sequence highlights the presence of seven exons. AtUTr7 is 323 amino acids in length and is a highly hydrophobic protein, possessing 7–10 predicted transmembrane domains (TMDs, [fig1] ). Since individual computer algorithms are not able to predict with precision the location of membrane-spanning regions, we employed several programs to build a consensus model for the topology of AtUTr7. Given the close correlation of the number and position of hydrophobic domains of AtUTr7, SQV-7, FRC, and hUGTrel7, we consider that AtUTr7 contains 10 TMDs. Interestingly, highly conserved lysine and threonine residues, implicated in NST–substrate binding specificity, are present ( [bib28] ; [bib53] ). Taken together, these characteristics are consistent with AtUTr7 being an NST. In order to determine whether and to what extent AtUTr7 is expressed, we carried out quantitative RT–PCR analysis using RNA extracted from various plant organs. UDP–sugar transport activity may be required in many cell types, and indeed AtUTr7 is expressed differentially in Arabidopsis organs, with the greatest accumulation of transcripts in roots. The analysis of the root hair zone of 7-day-old plants also shows that AtUTr7 transcripts are abundant ( [fig2] ). To analyze the distribution of AtUTr7 expression within these organs in greater detail, we performed in situ hybridization analysis. The results show that expression of AtUTr7 is not uniform in the different cell types; rather, there is greater expression of this gene in the vasculature of embryonic roots, at the leaf abscission zone, and in the receptacle and stigma of the flower ( [fig2] ). The broad pattern of expression of AtUTr7 is corroborated by data from microarray expression analysis ( [sec1] ). These results demonstrate that AtUTr7 is expressed in a tissue-specific manner, and is highest in roots. To determine the substrate specificity of AtUTr7, we generated a myc–His–epitope-tagged fusion version of the protein for transient expression in tobacco. Half-leaves were infiltrated with pBI121–AtUTr7–myc–His or with the empty vector. After subcellular fractionation, AtUTr7–myc–His was detected in a microsomal fraction by an anti-His antiserum, but not in the same fraction isolated from the half-leaves infiltrated with the empty vector control ( [sec1] ). The molecular mass of the detected protein (∼32 kD) was lower than the predicted mass of the epitope-tagged version AtUTr7 (∼38 kD). We consider that the highly hydrophobic nature of AtUTr7 is responsible for the aberrant mobility—a phenomenon observed for other NSTs ( [bib7] ), including from plants ( [bib69] ; [bib33] ; [bib70] ; [bib79] ). Microsomal vesicles obtained from control and AtUTr7–myc–His-infiltrated plants were used in assays to measure the uptake of a panel of radiolabeled NDP–sugars. As shown in [fig3] , uptake of UDP–Gal was approximately fourfold higher in vesicles isolated from tobacco expressing AtUTr7–myc–His than in the control. Uptake of UDP–Glc was also statistically significantly enhanced (by ∼25%) by expression of the epitope-tagged NST. Experiments with UDP–Xyl, UDP–GlcA, UDP–GlcNAc, GDP–Man, GDP–Fuc, and GDP–Gal revealed no significant uptake of these nucleotide sugars by AtUTr7–myc–His. To further confirm the substrate specificity of the NST, we transformed S. cerevisiae with AtUTr7–myc–His. Golgi-enriched vesicle fractions were isolated from yeast transformed with the empty vector and yeast transformed with AtUTr7–myc–His. The presence of the Arabidopsis NST, with the same molecular mass as that observed when expressed in the tobacco system (∼32kDa), was confirmed by Western blot analysis using anti-myc antisera ( [sec1] ). Experiments with radiolabeled nucleotide sugars demonstrated that transport of UDP–Gal and UDP–Glc was two to three times greater in vesicles isolated from AtUTr7–myc–His-expressing yeast than in the controls ( [fig3] ). In conclusion, the assays performed in tobacco and yeast vesicles give strong evidence that AtUTr7 is capable of transporting UDP–Gal and UDP–Glc. The experiments with AtUTr7–myc–His demonstrated that the fusion protein was associated with a microsomal fraction when expressed in tobacco leaves and was present in an enriched Golgi fraction when expressed in yeast. To determine the precise subcellular localization of the NST, a fusion protein composed of the green fluorescent protein (GFP) fused to the C-terminus of AtUTr7 was constructed and transiently expressed in tobacco epidermal cells. Four days after infiltration, discrete, motile spots of fluorescence were observed ( [fig4] and [sec1] ). AtUTr7–GFP co-localizes strongly with the Golgi marker α-1,2-mannosidase I ( [bib68] ) ( [fig4] ) but not with an ER marker signal peptide of AtWAK2 plus the N-terminus of the FP and the ER retention at its C-terminus ( [bib68] ) ( [fig4] ). To further analyze the subcellular localization of AtUTr7, the epidermal cells were pretreated with Brefeldin A (BFA) prior to visualization, a drug known to alter the localization of proteins from the Golgi to the ER in leaves ( [bib67] ). Treatment with this drug significantly altered the pattern of protein localization, resulting in a mesh-like pattern of fluorescence, resembling the ER network ( [fig4] ). Taken together, the size, motility, and sensitivity to BFA strongly suggest that AtUTr7 is a Golgi-localized protein. Subsequently, a microsomal fraction was prepared from the tobacco plants expressing AtUTr7–GFP for use in uptake assays. Similarly to the results obtained with AtUTr7–myc–His, uptakes of UDP–Gal and UDP–Glc were sixfold and 1.3-fold greater, respectively, in plants expressing AtUTr7–GFP, compared to the controls ( [sec1] ). Neither GDP–Man nor GDP–Fuc uptake was stimulated by the presence of AtUTr7–GFP, demonstrating that the fusion protein used for localization experiments was indeed functional. Despite the characterization of numerous Arabidopsis Golgi NSTs to date, no direct link between their function and role in vivo has been established. Therefore, we decided to examine the effect of abolishing AtUTr7 expression in planta . Thus, we identified and characterized two AtUTr7 T-DNA insertion lines in the Columbia (Col-0) ecotype: the SALK line 089838 ( atutr7-1 ) and the GABI-KAT line 859G07 ( atutr7-2 ). Heterozygous plants from both lines segregated 3:1 (resistant:sensitive) when grown on antibiotic-containing plates, indicative of a single T-DNA insertion. For each line, we isolated a homozygous mutant. By PCR analysis, we confirmed that, in the atutr7-1 line, the third exon of the AtUTr7 gene was disrupted, whereas the insertion was present in the 5’UTR in the atutr7-2 line ( [fig5] ). RT–PCR analyses were used to amplify a fragment located 3’ of all the insertions to determine the AtUTr7 mRNA expression levels in the mutants. We detected no expression of AtUTr7 in both lines, indicating that these represent genuine null mutants ( [fig5] ). In conclusion, the genetic and molecular analyses of each mutant line indicate the presence of a single T-DNA insertion in different exons of AtUTr7 , which abolishes the expression of the NST. Under controlled growth conditions in soil, the growth and development of the aerial portion of the mutant lines were unaffected by the lack of expression of AtUTr7 . Morphometric analyses ( [bib11] ) confirmed that there were no significant differences between mutant lines and wild-type plants in terms of rosette weight, time of bolting, number of inflorescences, height of main inflorescence, number of lateral branches, or number and spacing of siliques (data not shown). Even though AtUTr7 is highly expressed in roots ( [fig2] ), no differences in root morphology were observed in the atutr7-1 or atutr7-2 lines grown on MS supplemented with 1% Suc (29.3mM). However, as higher Suc concentrations encourage root growth and, among other processes, increase cell wall production, we explored the consequences of abolishing AtUTr7 expression under these conditions. Studies of seedlings grown on MS agar supplemented with 2% Suc (58.5mM) showed a greater proliferation of lateral roots in the mutant lines compared to wild-type plants ( [fig6] ) after 7d. However, as the plants developed, the number and morphology of lateral roots in the mutant lines approached that in wild-type plants. Sorbitol (1.1%, 58.5mM) did not stimulate lateral root emergence, indicating that the effect of sucrose was not due to an increase in osmotic pressure ( [fig6] ). Lateral root primordia (LRP) emergence occurred earlier than in the wild-type, although microscopic analysis after propidium iodide staining revealed no alterations in the development of emerging lateral roots, nor in the number or size of the cells in the LRP of the mutants ( [sec1] ). We performed successive treatments with an auxin transport inhibitor (1-N-naphthylphthalamic acid, NPA) and exogenous auxin (naphthaleneacetic acid, NAA) in order to synchronize LRP emergence ( [bib39] ). However, these treatments did not alter the premature development of lateral roots in the atutr7 mutant lines ( [sec1] ), indicating that this mutant phenotype is independent of altered auxin levels. The morphology of mutant root hairs grown on MS agar supplemented with 2% Suc was altered. In wild-type plants, characteristic elongated root hairs, with a vesicle-rich cytoplasmic region at the root hair tip, a reverse fountain-type of cytoplasmic streaming, and a basal central vacuole were observed ( [fig6] ; [bib12] ). However, in mutants grown under the same conditions, shorter root hairs with bulging tips were frequently encountered ( [fig6] ), as well as slightly wavy and branched root hairs with swollen bases. The altered morphology of the lateral roots and root hairs could be a result of a weakened cell wall caused by changes in its composition. To examine this possibility, whole-mounted lateral roots from plants grown for 3weeks on MS-2% Suc were immersion-labeled in cell wall-specific antibodies and examined by epifluorescence microscopy. Labeling with JIM5, a monoclonal antibody specific for homogalacturonan with a low degree of methyl esterification ( [bib47] ), was significantly altered in lateral root tips of the mutant. Whereas, in wild-type plants, abundant JIM5-labeling was observed at the root apices, there was a noticeable absence of fluorescence in the 200–250-μm region closest to the root tip in the atutr7-1 mutant line ( [fig7] ). Nevertheless, labeling with JIM7, an antibody specific for homogalacturonan with a high degree of methyl esterification ( [bib47] ), revealed no differences in the distribution of these epitopes between wild-type and mutant plants ( [fig7] ). Using the same panel of antibodies, we observed no differences between imbibed seeds of wild-type and atutr7-1 plants (data not shown), or when seeds (data not shown) or lateral root tips were incubated with JIM4, an antibody recognizing arabinogalactan proteins ( [fig7] ; [bib46] ; [bib95] ). To analyze the effect of the absence of AtUTr7 in more detail, cell wall material was prepared from 3-week-old seedlings grown on MS-2% Suc and assessed in terms of monosaccharide composition including uronic acid and cellulose content ( [fig8] ). No significant differences were observed in any of these parameters, indicating that reducing the expression of AtUTr7 does not lead to any gross changes in wall polymer composition. Taken together, these results suggest that changes in the cell wall in lateral roots may be due to alterations in non-carbohydrate decoration and/or cell wall architecture. Alternatively, changes in polysaccharide composition may be specific to certain cell types present in low abundance that could not be detected with the bulk analysis of entire roots.
!~MM~! Wild-type and the atutr7 mutant lines of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana Heynh. ecotype Columbia) were maintained at 22°C under a 16-h light/8-h dark regime at 100–120μmolphotonsm–2s–1. Segregation analysis was performed using surface-sterilized seeds plated onto [bib66] CIT0066 medium (1% Suc, pH5.7) supplemented with kanamycin (50μgml–1) or sulfadiazine (35μgml–1). For phenotypic analyses of roots, seeds were germinated in a vertical orientation on MS agar plates supplemented with 2% Suc or 1.1% sorbitol. UDP–[U- 3 H]Gal (12Cimmol –1 ), UDP–[U- 3 H]Glc (21Cimmol –1 ), GDP–[U- 3 H]Fuc (17.3Cimmol –1 ), GDP–[U- 3 H]Man (18.9Cimmol –1 ), UDP–[U- 3 H] GlcNAc (39.7Cimmol –1 ), UDP–[U- 14 C]GlcA (313mCimmol –1 ), and UDP–[U- 14 C]Xyl (264mCimmol –1 ) were purchased from NEN-DuPont. GDP–L-[U- 14 C]Gal was synthesized and purified from GDP–D-[U- 14 C]Man (275mCimmol –1 , GE Healthcare) according to [bib58] . AtUTr7 cDNA was amplified from the Arabidopsis cDNA library pFL61 (American Type Culture Collection) using Platinum Pfx polymerase (Gibco-BRL) and primers AtUTr7–BamHI-5’ (5’-ATCACTCTT GGATCC CCATGGA-3’) containing a BamH I site (sequence underlined) and AtUTr7-NotI-3’ (5’-CCAAAC GCGGCCGC AATTCTCCTTTT-3’) containing a Not I site (sequence underlined). Both primers flanked the coding region and were designed from the genomic sequence. The PCR product was cloned into the S. cerevisiae vector p426GPD–myc–His ( [bib69] ), such that the AtUTr7 cDNA lies in frame with a C-terminal myc–His epitope tag. To introduce AtUTr7 in the plant binary vector pBI121 (Clontech), we used the p426GPD–AtUTr7–myc–His plasmid as template to amplify a myc–His-tagged version of AtUTr7. As primers, we used AtUTr7–BamHI-5’ (described above) and AtUTr7–myc–His–SacI-3’ (5’-GGCACAGTC GAGCTC G ATCAGCGGGT TT-3’) containing a Sac I site (sequence underlined). The PCR product was cloned in pGEMT (Promega), excised using BamH I and Sac I, and cloned in pBI121, creating pBI121–AtUTr7–myc–His. For subcellular localization studies, AtUTr7 was amplified by PCR from the p426GPD–AtUTr7–myc–His plasmid to introduce unique Xba I and Sal I restriction sites at the 5’ and 3’ ends, respectively (sequence underlined), using the following primers: 5’-CAGGACG TCTAGA TGGAGGTTCAAGCTGAAATGGAG-3’ and 5’-CATGACC GTCGAC TTTTTTTTGTGAGCTTCCAAATCAGACA-3’. The PCR product was then cloned via pGEM-T into the binary vector pVKH18–EN6 ( [bib5] ) for Agrobacterium -mediated transformation and transient expression in planta . The resulting recombinant vector was designated pVKH18–EN6–AtUTr7, in which the gene was inserted in frame at the 5’-end of the GFP5 gene ( [bib35] ). All clones were verified by sequencing. The mutant line containing a T-DNA insertion in the third exon of AtUTr7 was identified in the SALK collection ( [bib1] ) and obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. The position and presence of the T-DNA insertion were confirmed by PCR using primers AtUTr7salk-F (5’-CATTGCTTCAATGGCAATGG-3’; primer 1, [fig5] ), AtUTr7salk-R (5’-CCGGACCGAAATTCTCATTT-3’; primer 2), and LBb1 (5’-GCGTGGACCGCTTGCTGCAACT-3’; primer 3). The mutant line 859G07 identified from the GABI-KAT T-DNA mutagenized collection ( [bib81] ) contained the insertion in the 5’UTR region of AtUtr7 . The presence and position of the T-DNA insertion in this line were confirmed by PCR using primers AtUTr7gabi-F (5’-CACAGGACTAGACTCTATGATAGGTTTTT-3’; primer 4), AtUTr7Rgabi-R (5’-ATAATCAGCATTTACAGGAAGTGAATAAT-3’; primer 5), and LB (5’-ATATTGACCATCATACTCATTGC-3’; primer 6). For the RT–PCR analysis of gene expression in the mutant lines, total RNA was isolated with TRIzol reagents (Invitrogen). First-strand cDNA was synthesized from 1μg of total RNA using ImProm-II reverse transcriptase (Promega). For the PCR reaction, gene-specific AtUTr7 primers (U7-RT-Ford 5’-CCAACAACTCAGGTTGCTCTATCTG-3’, U7-RT-Rev 5’-ATAAGA- ACACTTTGCAAGTAATAG-3’) were positioned 5’ or 3’ of the T-DNA insertions for atutr7-1 and atutr7-2 , respectively. We designed these primers to bridge the exon3–exon4 junction in order to determine more easily whether there was contamination with genomic DNA. As controls, we used cDNA-specific primers for AtUTr2 (U2-RT-Ford 5’-CACATTTATCGGT- CAAGTCTCCGTT-3’, U2-RT-Rev 5’- TCTTCTCTATCACCATCGCCTC- CTGCGA-3’) and for the housekeeping gene clathrin adaptor complex subunit, At5g46630 (previously described by [bib14] ) (CAC-Ford 5’-CCTCCGTTGTGATGTAACTGG-3’, CAC-Rev 5’- ATTGGTGGAAAGTAACATCATCG-3’). For leaf, stem, flower, and silique, samples were taken from five plants (4weeks old). For roots, samples were taken from 3-week-old plants ( n =50) whilst the root hair zone was obtained from 95 roots from 7-day-old plants. Total RNA was extracted with Plant Reagent (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer’s instructions and treated with DNase I (Invitrogen). By use of a common oligo (dT) 18 primer, total RNA was heated to 65°C for 5min and then subjected to a reverse transcription (RT) reaction using SuperScriptII Reverse Transcriptase (Invitrogen). Quantitative polymerase chain reactions (qPCR) were performed with an Mx3000P Real-Time PCR System (Stratagene, CA), using Eva-Green (Biotium) to monitor dsDNA synthesis. PCR amplifications of 40 cycles were performed in three-step reactions, with a denaturation of 10s at 94.5°C, an annealing of 20s at 55°C, and an elongation of 20s at 72°C. Data were analyzed using Mx3000P system software. Relative target transcript levels were normalized to the geometric mean of the housekeeping gene ( UBIQUITIN10 ) using the ΔCT method ( [bib99] ). The sequences of the primer pairs used were qU7 (Ford) 5’-CAACCATCGTTGGTGTTC-3’; qU7 (Rev) 5’- TCTGTCGGTACT TGGCAT-3’; UBQ10 (Ford) 5’-CACACTCCACTTGGTCTTGCGT-3’ and UBQ10 (rev) 5’-TGGTCTTTCCGGTGAGAGTCTTCA-3’. All qPCR data represent the average of two independent biological pools of samples and three technical replicates. A digoxygenin-11-labeled antisense probe against AtUTr7 was generated by the in vitro transcription system (Roche), using as template pBI121–AtUTr7–myc–His linearized with BamH I and transcribed with T3 RNA polymerase. Plant tissue of seedlings (5d old) and flowering plants (4weeks old) was fixed and embedded in Paraplast (Merck) according to [bib19] . Sections (10μm) were processed as described previously ( [bib25] ). Tobacco leaves ( Nicotiana tabacum , cultivar Xanthi NN) were used for Agrobacterium tumefaciens -mediated transformation (strain GV3101) with pBI121 and pBI121–AtUTr7–myc–His by syringe infiltration using the method described by [bib70] . A Golgi-enriched vesicle fraction was prepared and used in filter-based uptake assays with a panel of radiolabeled nucleotide sugars according to [bib70] . AtUTr7–myc–His was detected using monoclonal anti-His antiserum (Santa Cruz Biotechnology). Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain RSY255 ( MATa , ura3-52 , leu2-211 ) was transformed with the URA plasmids p426GPD–myc–His and p426GPD–AtUTr7–myc–His using lithium acetate methods. Golgi-enriched vesicles were prepared as described by [bib70] . Transport assays with radiolabeled 10μM (0.5μCi) UDP–Glc and UDP–Gal were performed by a centrifugation method as outlined previously ( [bib70] ). AtUTr7–myc–His was detected using a monoclonal anti-myc antiserum (Santa Cruz Biotechnology). Tobacco leaves were used for Agrobacterium -mediated transformation and transient expression, as described by [bib33] , by infection with a bacterial culture with an OD 600 value of 0.2. Lower epidermal peels of transformed leaves were analyzed 4d after infection. In some cases, samples were incubated in 10μgml –1 Brefeldin A solution for 1h. Confocal images were captured on an upright Zeiss META LSM 510 Laser Scanning Microscope and processed with LSM 5 Image Browser and Adobe Photoshop software. The inducible system experiment was performed as previously described ( [bib39] ). After germination on MS-2% Suc, seedlings were grown on NPA for 3d (72h). These 3-day-old seedlings were considered to be at time point 0 for the inducible system. After treatment with NPA, seedlings were transferred to medium containing exogenous auxin (10μM NAA) for 12h until the entire pericycle was activated; seedlings were then transferred to MS-2% Suc for another 24h. Lateral root development was observed under an Olympus SZX7 stereoscopic microscope. The rat monoclonal antibodies used in this study were JIM5 and JIM7, recognizing homogalacturonan with a low degree and a high degree of methyl esterification, respectively ( [bib47] ), and JIM4, specific for betaGlcA-(1,3)-alphaGalA-(1,2)-Rha ( [bib46] ). Roots of seedlings grown on MS-2% Suc for 3weeks were fixed and incubated with primary antibodies according to the protocol established by [bib93] . Samples were labeled with an anti-rat-IgG Alexa Fluor 488 secondary antibody (Molecular Probes), before being viewed under a confocal microscope (Olympus). Cell wall alcohol-insoluble residue (AIR) was extracted from 3-week-old seedlings grown on MS-2% Suc using the method described by [bib50] . The neutral sugar composition was determined after releasing the sugars by trifluoroacetic acid hydrolysis followed by alditol acetate derivatization and GC–FID analysis as described by [bib96] . The uronic acid content was determined by methods adapted from [bib17] . The cellulose content was assayed by the anthrone method ( [bib91] ). Protein sequences were aligned using ClustalX. The phylogenetic analysis was carried out using the Mega 3.1 software package ( [bib48] ) after trimming all poorly conserved sequences that were improperly aligned. The aligned sequences of AtUTr7, SQV-7, FRC, and hUGTrel7 were compared using BOXSHADE. Hydrophobicity analysis was performed using a Kyte–Doolittle hydrophobicity plot. The number of putative transmembrane domains was estimated using the web-based algorithms TMHMM, SOSUI, TOPRED, HMMTOP, and PRODIV-TMHMM, and a consensus topology of AtUTr7 was calculated using the Residue-based Diagram Editor ( http://icb.med.cornell.edu/services/rbde/start ). Microarray expression data were obtained using the Gene Atlas tool in the Genevestigator package ( www.genevestigator.ethz.ch; [bib98] ). Microarray data for glucose and sucrose treatments were obtained from the ArrayExpress database ( www.ebi.ac.uk/arrayexpress; [bib73] ) under accession numbers E-MEXP-475 and E-MEXP-828, respectively. Sequence data for the genes and mutants presented in this study can be found in the EMBL/GenBank data libraries under the following accession numbers: AtUTr1 (At2g02810), AtUTr2 (At4g23010), AtUTr3 (At1g14360), AtUTr4 (At1g12600), AtUTr5 (At3g46180), AtUTr6 (At3g59360), AtUTr7 (At4g31600), UDP–GalT1 (At1g77610), UDP–GalT2 (At1g76670), AtNST–KT1 (At4g39390), GONST1 (At2g13650), GONST2 (At1g07290), GONST3 (At1g76340), GONST4 (At5g19980), GONST5 (At1g21870), SQV-7 (NP_495436), FRC (AAF49343.1), hUGTrel7 (NP_055954), atutr7-1 (SALK_089838), atutr7-2 (GK-859G07).
