!~ABS~! Primary aerial surfaces of land plants are coated by a lipidic cuticle, which forms a barrier against transpirational water loss and protects the plant from diverse stresses. Four enzymes of a fatty acid elongase complex are required for the synthesis of very-long-chain fatty acid (VLCFA) precursors of cuticular waxes. Fatty acid elongase substrate specificity is determined by a condensing enzyme that catalyzes the first reaction carried out by the complex. In Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), characterized condensing enzymes involved in wax synthesis can only elongate VLCFAs up to 28 carbons (C28) in length, despite the predominance of C29 to C31 monomers in Arabidopsis stem wax. This suggests additional proteins are required for elongation beyond C28. The wax-deficient mutant eceriferum2 (cer2) lacks waxes longer than C28, implying that CER2, a putative BAHD acyltransferase, is required for C28 elongation. Here, we characterize the cer2 mutant and demonstrate that green fluorescent protein-tagged CER2 localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum, the site of VLCFA biosynthesis. We use site-directed mutagenesis to show that the classification of CER2 as a BAHD acyltransferase based on sequence homology does not fit with CER2 catalytic activity. Finally, we provide evidence for the function of CER2 in C28 elongation by an assay in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae).
!~RES~! Previous studies have established both wax load and wax composition phenotypes for cer2 using transfer DNA (T-DNA) mutants BRL5 (cer2-3) and BRL9 (cer2-4) in Wassilewskija (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION), and ethyl methanesulfonate-mutagenized lines cer2-1 and cer2-2 in Landsberg erecta (CITATION; CITATION). All of these mutant alleles have glossy green stems, and observation of cer2-1 and cer2-2 stems by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) revealed an absence of epicuticular wax crystals (CITATION; CITATION). Gas chromatography with flame ionization detection (GC-FID) analysis of cuticular wax load and composition of the cer2-4 mutant revealed a 65% decrease in total wax load, reduction of all wax monomers longer than C28 to trace amounts, and increased load of most wax monomers C28 or shorter (CITATION). A summary of characterized cer2 alleles is shown in Supplemental Table S1. For our further investigations into CER2 function, we acquired a T-DNA insertional mutant line in Col-0 ecotype from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center, SALK_084443 (CITATION), hereafter referred to as cer2-5. Homozygous mutants were identified by PCR-based genotyping, and direct sequencing of genomic DNA revealed a T-DNA insertion in the second exon of the CER2 gene (Fig. 1A). Stems of cer2-5 individuals had a glossy appearance characteristic of eceriferum mutants with decreased wax load (Fig. 1B). We further investigated this phenotype using SEM; whereas stems of wild-type Col-0 plants are densely coated with rod-shaped, tubular, and platelet-shaped wax crystals, cer2-5 stems appear completely devoid of such structures (Fig. 1C). [[FIGURE]] We analyzed stem waxes by GC-FID to determine how wax load and composition of the cer2-5 mutant compared with that of the wild type and other previously described cer2 alleles. We detected a 60% reduction in total wax load (Fig. 1D). All wax monomers longer than C28 were reduced to trace amounts in the mutant, and relative increases were observed for several wax monomers shorter than C28 (Fig. 1E). These results suggest a block in acyl chain elongation past C28 in cer2-5. We also examined the wax profile of rosette leaves in the cer2-5 mutant; no change in rosette leaf wax composition or load compared with the wild type was detected (data not shown). These results agree with the published data for other cer2 alleles. Based on the wax phenotype of cer2 mutant alleles, we hypothesized that CER2 has a role in fatty acid elongation of wax precursors. Given that the four characterized enzymes of the FAE complex are localized to the ER (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), we predicted that the CER2 gene product should localize to the ER as well. To determine if this is indeed the case, the genomic CER2 sequence was fused to GFP and expressed downstream of the 35S promoter in cer2-5 and wild-type Arabidopsis. Multiple cer2-5 transgenic individuals were recovered, which displayed complementation of the cer2-5 wax-deficient phenotype (i.e. had glaucous stems, and restored wax load and composition as determined by GC-FID analysis). In both genetic backgrounds, GFP fluorescence strongly labeled a reticulate structure in young, wax-producing stem epidermal cells (Fig. 2A). When plant stems were stained with the ER dye hexyl rhodamine B (CITATION), the stain and GFP fluorescence showed clear colocalization (Fig. 2, B and C). We also observed an inconsistent CER2:GFP signal in nuclei in some cells in addition to the strong and highly consistent signal from the ER. ER localization of CER2 supports a role for CER2 in wax biosynthesis. [[FIGURE]] Organ-specific expression patterns of CER2 were investigated by quantitative PCR (qPCR). We detected CER2 transcript in all tissues except roots (Fig. 3A), suggesting either that CER2 may contribute to wax biosynthesis in organs other than stem, or that it may be involved in other metabolic pathways that require VLCFAs. [[FIGURE]] To determine tissue- and cell type-specific expression patterns of CER2, we examined GFP fluorescence in the wild type and cer2-5 plants transformed with a CER2:GFP transgene driven by the native CER2 promoter, which complemented the cer2-5 mutant phenotype. In stems, siliques, rosette leaves, and cauline leaves, GFP was detected uniquely in epidermal cells (Fig. 3, B and D–F). These results support the notion that CER2 function is specific to cuticular lipid synthesis, which occurs exclusively in the epidermis, and is similar to previous CER2 expression patterns reported by CITATION, CITATION). We also observed that whereas GFP fluorescence was very strong at the stem apex, there was a reduction in fluorescence at a distance of only 3 cm from the apex (Fig. 3, B and C). This observation corroborates previous findings that wax biosynthesis occurs predominantly at the shoot tip (CITATION). The cer2 mutation was previously mapped to At4g24510 (CITATION; CITATION), which was annotated to encode a BAHD acyltransferase on the basis of sequence similarity with members of this gene family. The BAHD family is specific to and widely distributed among plants, and characterized members have been associated with a broad range of metabolic pathways (CITATION). We carried out a phylogenetic analysis using the CER2 protein sequence, its three closest Arabidopsis homologs, and all of the characterized BAHD acyltransferases from Arabidopsis that we are aware of (Supplemental Fig. S1A; proteins annotated in Supplemental Table S2). We found that CER2 was distantly related to most of the other proteins included in our analysis, particularly those with demonstrated acyltransferase activity. Two hypothetical proteins that appeared the most closely related to CER2 were named CER2-LIKE1 (At4g13840) and CER2-LIKE2 (At3g23840). BAHD acyltransferases catalyze the transfer of an acyl group from acyl-CoA to either an alcohol or an amine acceptor molecule (CITATION). Multiple studies have demonstrated through structural analysis and site-directed mutagenesis that BAHD acyltransferase activity, and indeed that of several other acyltransferase families, is dependent on a catalytic His residue within a conserved “HXXXD” site. The His residue is singly responsible for deprotonating the alcohol or amine of the acyl acceptor (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION); this deprotonation creates a nucleophile that attacks the carbonyl carbon of the acyl-CoA, resulting in release of the CoA group and formation of a new ester or amide bond. Whereas the conserved HXXXD site is present in the CER2 sequence, we noted that the catalytic His residue is replaced by an Asn residue in the putative Arabidopsis protein with highest homology to CER2, CER2-LIKE1 (Supplemental Fig. S1B). Because of this peculiarity, we undertook an investigation into the function of this CER2 paralog. We obtained a T-DNA insertional mutant of CER2-LIKE1 from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center, SALK_087857, hereafter referred to as cer2-like1-1. Homozygous mutants were identified by PCR-based genotyping, and direct sequencing of genomic DNA revealed a T-DNA insertion in the single intron of CER2-LIKE1 (Fig. 4A). Publicly available microarray data on the Arabidopsis eFP browser (CITATION) indicate that CER2-LIKE1 is highly expressed in leaves. As Arabidopsis leaves carry roughly 10-fold less wax than Arabidopsis stems, wax crystals do not form, and it is difficult to detect any change in wax load by sight or with SEM. Because there was no obvious mutant phenotype indicating that cer2-like1-1 is a loss-of-function allele, we first quantified CER2-LIKE1 expression in various wild-type tissues (Fig. 4B) and confirmed that CER2-LIKE1 is expressed in leaves, with lower levels of expression in siliques and seedlings. We then compared CER2-LIKE1 transcript levels between rosette leaves of the wild type and cer2-like1-1 using semiquantitative reverse transcription (RT)-PCR. We could not detect any transcript in the mutant, indicating that cer2-like1-1 is a loss-of-function allele suitable for further analysis (Fig. 4C). [[FIGURE]] To determine if CER2-LIKE1 plays a role in leaf wax synthesis, we analyzed wax composition of cer2-like1-1 and wild-type rosette leaves. We found that cer2-like1-1 leaves had a 56% reduction in C31 alkane, and accumulated 86% more C29 alkane than the wild type (Fig. 4E). Changes in chain length distribution of less abundant waxes such as aldehydes, alcohols, and fatty acids were less obvious. The shift in alkane chain length distribution does, however, suggest a function for CER2-LIKE1 in C30 VLCFA elongation to C32, parallel to the role of CER2 in C28 elongation to C30. The cer2-like1-1 mutant does still accumulate C32 aldehyde, C33 alkane, and a reduced amount of C31 alkane, which implies that there may be genetic redundancy for the C30 to C32 elongation step. Because CER2, CER2-LIKE1, and CER2-LIKE2 are all expressed in rosette leaves (Figs. 3A and 4B; Supplemental Fig. S2), we suspect that several or all of these genes have a role in elongating C30 to C32 VLCFAs. Thus, the remaining C31 and C33 waxes in the cer2-like1-1 mutant may be produced by either or both CER2 or CER2-LIKE2 activity. The fact that the cer2-5 mutant had no rosette leaf wax phenotype, despite expression of CER2 in rosette leaves, suggests that CER2 is not the only protein with a function in VLCFA elongation from C28 to C30. Thus, there may be functional overlap among CER2, CER2-LIKE1, and CER2-LIKE2 with respect to both C28 to C30 and C30 to C32 elongation in rosette leaves. Conversely, the cer2-5 phenotype is obvious in stems because it is the only gene from this group that is expressed in the stem epidermis (Figs. 3A and 4B; Supplemental Fig. S2). To explore the possibility of functional redundancy between CER2 and CER2-LIKE1, we generated a cer2-5 cer2-like1-1 double mutant and analyzed rosette leaf wax composition. cer2-5 cer2-like1-1 rosette leaf wax showed substantial accumulation of C28 primary alcohol and C27 alkane, showed reduction in C31 alkane, and unlike the cer2-like1-1 single mutant, did not accumulate C29 alkane (Fig. 4E). Overall, we interpreted this result as an accumulation of leaf cuticular waxes C28 and shorter, and a reduction in waxes longer than C28. The fact that the reduction in leaf wax elongation occurred at C28 in the double mutant suggests that CER2-LIKE1, similar to CER2, can elongate C28 to C30. However, the double mutant produced wild-type levels of some C30, C32, and C33 wax monomers, indicating that the block in elongation in the double mutant is incomplete. We suggest that the second paralog of CER2 we identified, CER2-LIKE2, may be involved in VLCFA elongation in leaves, and that only a triple mutant will show a complete block in VLCFA elongation from C28 to C32. Unexpectedly, we found that the average total leaf wax load of the cer2-like1-1 mutant was 18.5% greater than the wild type, although this difference was determined to be statistically insignificant using a Student’s t test. (Fig. 4D). We are unsure of the reason for the increase in wax load we observed here, and at this time our best explanation for this result is that we may be observing a compensatory effort by the plant to produce an effective cuticular barrier by producing more wax when the cuticle structure is compromised. Further investigations of the cer2-like1-1 phenotype, exploration of the cer2-like2 phenotype, as well as double and triple mutant analyses, are currently underway. Our analysis of the cer2-like1-1 mutant revealed that despite having the catalytic His residue of the conserved HXXXD acyltransferase motif replaced by an Asn (Supplemental Fig. S1B), CER2-LIKE1 has a metabolic function in wax biosynthesis. This is in stark contrast to other characterized BAHD acyltransferases (with the exception of At5g67160, which also lacks this residue; CITATION), and suggests that CER2-LIKE1 may not be an acyltransferase. CER2 homology to CER2-LIKE1 and similar roles of these proteins in VLCFA elongation led us to question whether CER2 has acyltransferase activity. We used site-directed mutagenesis to modify the catalytic His residue of CER2 to determine if it is required for CER2 function. We replaced His with Ala, to presumably knock out any catalytic activity at this site, and Asn, to mimic CER2-LIKE1. We then transformed constructs carrying these mutant alleles of CER2, as well as a wild-type control, into cer2-5 plants. In each case, we confirmed the insertion of the transgene by PCR-based genotyping, and presence of the mutation by Sanger sequencing of the transgene. Both mutant alleles fully complemented the mutant phenotype, indicating that CER2 does not share the same catalytic mechanism as characterized members of the BAHD acyltransferase family (Fig. 5, A and B; Supplemental Fig. S3). [[FIGURE]] The wax phenotypes of cer2-5 and cer2-like1-1 mutants demonstrate a role for CER2 and CER2-LIKE1 in specific VLCFA elongation steps required for wax synthesis. However, their biochemical functions are uncertain. They could serve as condensing enzymes in the elongation of VLCFAs longer than C28, or facilitate acyl chain extension past C28 catalyzed by a condensing enzyme such as CER6. To establish whether CER2 is sufficient for C28 elongation to C30, we expressed CER2 in yeast cells in combination with LfKCS45 from the crucifer Lesquerella fendleri (CITATION). LfKCS45 elongates C26 VLCFA to C28, the proposed substrate for CER2, and also produces a lesser amount of C30 VLCFA. We detected C28 VLCFA and trace amounts of C30 VLCFA in yeast cells transformed with CER2 and LfKCS45, equivalent to what is produced when LfKCS45 is expressed alone (Supplemental Fig. S4). This result indicates that CER2 is not sufficient for C28 elongation. The dominant role of the CER6 condensing enzyme in cuticular wax elongation led us to suspect that concerted activity of CER2 and CER6 may be required for the production of C30 VLCFA. Therefore, we expressed CER2 and CER6 individually and together in yeast. Cells transformed with CER2 alone showed no change in fatty acid profile relative to the wild type (Fig. 6). A very small amount of C28 was detected in the strain expressing CER2; however, this can also be seen, though to a lesser degree, in the wild-type strain. It has been previously reported that wild-type yeast can produce very small amounts of this VLCFA (CITATION.) Cells expressing CER6 accumulated a much greater amount of C28 VLCFA, but no C30 VLCFA. Remarkably, in the strain expressing both CER6 and CER2, we detected a 2-fold increase in the yield of C28 VLCFA compared with the strain expressing only CER6, and an additional peak, which we identified as C30 fatty acid. Therefore, the combined activity of CER6 and CER2 is necessary and sufficient for acyl chain elongation to C30 for cuticular wax production in Arabidopsis. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Seed stocks of cer2-5 (At4g24510; SALK_84443) and cer2-like1-1 (At4g13840; SALK_087857) were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (CITATION; http://www.arabidopsis.org/). Single and double mutants were genotyped using primer 1 (all primer sequences are listed in Supplemental Table S3) specific for the T-DNA insertion, primers 2 and 3 specific for cer2-5, and primers 4 and 5 specific for cer2-like1-1. Double mutants were generated by crossing homozygous mutant lines and selecting the appropriate lines from the F2 generation by genotyping. The precise site of the DNA insertion in the mutant alleles was determined by sequencing the PCR product amplified using the T-DNA-specific primer (primer 1) and one gene-specific primer (primer 3 or 5). Seeds were germinated on Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana; AT) medium (CITATION) supplemented with agar and, when necessary, with appropriate antibiotics. Seven-day-old seedlings were transferred to soil (Sunshine Mix 4, SunGro) and grown under continuous light (100 μE m-2 s−1 of photosynthetically active radiation) at 20°C. RNA was extracted from 4-week-old wild-type Col-0 and cer2-like1-1 rosette leaves by phenol:chloroform:isoamyl alcohol separation, and purified by lithium chloride and sodium acetate precipitations (CITATION). Residual genomic DNA was removed from the system by treatment with DNaseI (New England Biolabs), according to the manufacturer’s protocol. 1.5 μg of each RNA sample was reverse-transcribed to single-stranded complementary DNA (cDNA) using Superscript III Reverse Transcriptase (Invitrogen), according to the manufacturer’s protocol. The gene GAPC1 was used as a control for constitutive expression, using primers 11 and 12. Primers 8 and 10 were used for CER2-LIKE1 detection. Seedling and root RNA was extracted from young wild-type Col-0 seedlings grown on Arabidopsis medium, and stem, flower, silique, cauline leaf, and rosette leaf RNA was extracted from mature plants by phenol:chloroform:isoamyl alcohol separation, and purified by lithium chloride and sodium acetate precipitations (CITATION). RT and DNaseI treatment were performed as described above. The gene GAPC1 was used as a control for constitutive expression for qPCR analysis. CER2 primers 6 and 7 and CER2-LIKE1 primers 8 and 9 were used to measure expression levels. cDNA was quantified using iQ SYBR green Supermix (BioRad), according to the manufacturer’s protocol, in an MJ Mini Opticon Personal Thermocycler (BioRad). Four technical replicates were analyzed for each sample. Wax analysis was carried out using the top 10 cm of 3- to 5-week-old primary stems, or 3- to 4-week-old entire rosette leaves. Tissues were photographed to determine sample surface area. Surface area was determined by measuring two-dimensional area in Adobe Photoshop, and for stems, by multiplying the flat area by π. Tissues were submerged for 30 s in approximately 8 mL of chloroform containing 10 μg tetracosane as an internal standard. Chloroform was blown off under nitrogen gas, and the waxes silylated by heating in pyridine and N,O-bis(trimethylsilyl)trifluoroacetamide with 1% trimethylchlorosilane at 80°C for 1 h. Solvent was again blown off under nitrogen gas and the waxes resuspended in 50 μL of chloroform for GC-FID analysis. Waxes were analyzed on an Agilent 7890A gas chromatography system with an HP1 methyl siloxane column. The program ran at 50°C for 2 min, increased temperature by 40°C/min to 200°C and held for 1 min, increased by 3°C/min to 320°C and held for 15 min. 1 μL of each sample was injected. Leaf wax samples were analyzed using splitless mode, and stem wax samples using a 2.7:1 split. Segments from the apical 1 cm of stem were mounted onto SEM stubs, dried, and sputter coated with gold particles for 10 min in a SEMPrep2 sputter coater (Nanotech). The coated samples were viewed with a Hitachi S4700 field emission SEM using an accelerating voltage of 5 kV and a working distance of 12 mm. The genomic sequence of CER2 was amplified beginning from the start codon and extending up until but not including the stop codon using primers 13 and 15 for construct A, and beginning from the 3′ untranslated region of the gene directly upstream of CER2 and extending up until but not including the stop codon of CER2 using primers 14 and 15 for construct B. Both sequences were amplified from Col-0 leaf genomic DNA using Phusion polymerase (NEB), and primers with Gateway attB adaptor sequences. The purified PCR products were transferred into the Donor vector pDONR221 using BP Clonase (Invitrogen), according to the manufacturer’s protocol. Positive clones were identified by colony PCR, restriction digestion, and sequencing. The inserts were transferred into Destination vectors using LR clonase (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer’s protocol. The Gateway cassette from construct A was transferred into the Destination vector pGWB6 (CITATION), which placed the CER2 gene immediately downstream of the constitutive 35S promoter, and upstream of GFP. The Gateway cassette from construct B was transferred into the destination vector pGWB4 (CITATION), which contains no promoter, and placed GFP immediately downstream of CER2. Positive clones were again identified by colony PCR, restriction digestion, and sequencing. Purified constructs were transformed into chemically competent Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 cells, and verified by colony PCR and restriction digestion. Fifty-milliliter cultures of transgenic A. tumefaciens in log phase growth were spun down, washed, and resuspended in 5% Suc solution. Four-week-old Col-0 and cer2-5 plants were sprayed with the suspensions, and were covered overnight, while the A. tumefaciens remained infectious. After senescence, T1 seeds were collected and screened for hygromycin resistance conferred by the pGWB4 and pGWB6 plasmids, and complementation of the cer2-5 mutant wax deficiency. Subcellular localization of GFP-tagged CER2 was carried out on a Perkin-Elmer UltraView VoX Spinning Disk Confocal Microscope, using a 63× glycerol immersion objective. Stem tissue was dyed with hexyl rhodamine B to counterstain the ER. GFP was excited with a 488-nm laser, and hexyl rhodamine B was excited with a 561-nm laser. Cell-specific expression patterns were observed on a Nikon Eclipse 80i Scanning Laser Confocal Microscope using a 20× objective. GFP was excited with a 488-nm laser, and chlorophyll autofluorescence was detected for contrast. The CER2pro:CER2:GFP construct was used as a template for overlap extension mutagenesis (CITATION). The genomic CER2 sequence was split in two fragments for amplification of altered sequences. For the His to Ala mutation, primers 14 and 17 were used to amplify the 5′ fragment, primers 18 and 16 were used for amplifying the 3′ fragment, and primers 14 and 16 were used for the final overlap extension PCR. For the His to Asn mutation, primers 14 and 19 were used for amplifying the 5′ fragment, primers 20 and 16 were used for amplifying the 3′ fragment, and primers 14 and 16 were used for the final overlap extension PCR. Following amplification of the split CER2 fragments, PCR products were purified on a DNA-binding column (Epoch Life Science) prior to overlap extension. A wild-type control was amplified from the CER2pro:CER2:GFP construct using primers 14 and 16 directly. CER2 alleles were cloned into the pDONR207 (Invitrogen) and pGWB4 (CITATION) vectors, and transformed into cer2-5 Arabidopsis plants following the procedure outlined under “plasmid construction and plant transformation.” Insertion of the T-DNA and presence of the correct mutation were confirmed by PCR-based genotyping and sequencing. cDNA was prepared as described above under RT-PCR from Col-0 stem tissue. CER6 and CER2 cDNA sequences were amplified using primers 23 and 24, and 21 and 22, respectively. CER6 was cloned into the pESC-URA yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) expression vector (Agilent) downstream of the GAL10 inducible promoter, and CER2 was cloned into the p423 yeast expression vector with His selection, downstream of the strong constitutive GPD (glyceraldehyde-3-P-dehydrogenase) promoter (CITATION). Correct plasmid construction was confirmed by colony PCR, restriction digestion, and sequencing. Yeast strain W3031a was transformed using the protocol described by CITATION. The LfKCS45 yeast expression construct generated and described by CITATION was used. Transgenic yeast cells were grown on synthetic complete (SC) selection medium (CITATION) lacking the appropriate amino acids. Successful transformation was confirmed by colony PCR. Three individual cell lines were selected from each transgenic strain for induction of transgene expression and lipid analysis. Cultures were grown in 5-mL SC medium with 2% Gal overnight, then plated on solid SC medium with 2% Gal and incubated for 2 to 4 d (strains harboring plasmids grew slower than the wild type). Cultures were scraped from the plates and transmethylated to their fatty acid methyl esters in methanolic HCl for 2 h at 80°C, and the lipids extracted in hexane. Fatty acid methyl esters were analyzed by GC-FID, and peaks identified based on comparison of retention times with known standards. A BLAST search of the deduced CER2 protein sequence was used to select the closest homologs, and characterized Arabidopsis BAHDs were selected based on a literature review. The selected sequences were aligned in MUSCLE (CITATION), and viewed and edited in the Mesquite program (CITATION). A basic tree was derived from ProtTest (CITATION), which was used to select the WAG+G+F model for generating the final tree (CITATION). The final tree was generated on RAXML (CITATION), with 100 replications in the bootstrap analysis, and visualized using FigTree (CITATION). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Phylogenetic and sequence analysis of CER2 and the BAHD acyltransferase family. Supplemental Figure S2. qPCR analysis of CER2-LIKE2 expression. Supplemental Figure S3. Wax composition of cer2-5 complemented with site-directed mutant CER2 alleles. Supplemental Figure S4. Total lipid profiles of yeast expressing LfKCS45 and CER2. Supplemental Table S1. Summary of characterized cer2 alleles. Supplemental Table S2. Annotation of protein sequences used for phylogenetic analysis. Supplemental Table S3. Primer sequences used for this study.
