!~ABS~! Ubiquitin-dependent proteolysis regulates multiple aspects of plant growth and development, but little is known about its role in ambient temperature-responsive flowering. In addition to being regulated by daylength, the onset of flowering in many plants can also be delayed by low ambient temperatures. Here, we show that HIGH EXPRESSION OF OSMOTICALLY RESPONSIVE GENES 1 (HOS1), which encodes an E3 ubiquitin ligase, controls flowering time in response to ambient temperatures (16 and 23°C) and intermittent cold. hos1 mutants flowered early, and were insensitive to ambient temperature, but responded normally to vernalization and gibberellic acid. Genetic analyses suggested that this ambient temperature-insensitive flowering was independent of FLOWERING LOCUS C (FLC). Also, FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT) and TWIN SISTER OF FT (TSF) expression was up-regulated in hos1 mutants at both temperatures. The ft tsf mutation almost completely suppressed the early flowering of hos1 mutants at different temperatures, suggesting that FT and TSF are downstream of HOS1 in the ambient temperature response. A lesion in CONSTANS (CO) did not affect the ambient temperature-insensitive flowering phenotype of hos1-3 mutants. In silico analysis showed that FVE was spatiotemporally co-expressed with HOS1. A HOS1–green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion co-localized with FVE–GFP in the nucleus at both 16 and 23°C. HOS1 physically interacted with FVE and FLK in yeast two-hybrid and co-immunoprecipitation assays. Moreover, hos1 mutants were insensitive to intermittent cold. Collectively, our results suggest that HOS1 acts as a common regulator in the signaling pathways that control flowering time in response to low ambient temperature.
!~RES~! To find regulators of the response to ambient temperatures, we examined the flowering phenotypes of known flowering time mutants at different ambient growth temperatures, as described in our earlier study (CITATION). We measured the time of flowering as the number of leaves present at bolting and compared this number at two ambient temperatures, 23 and 16°C. We found that hos1-1 mutants in the C24 background (CITATION) exhibited an early-flowering phenotype that was not substantially altered at different ambient temperatures under LD conditions (10.9 and 13.0 leaves at 23 and 16°C, respectively; cf. C24 plants = 13.7 and 26.3 leaves at 23 and 16°C, respectively) (Fig. 1A), indicating that the flowering of hos1-1 mutants was non-responsive to different ambient temperatures. As the C24 ecotype is considered to have a weak FLC allele (CITATION) and it has not been widely used for genetic interaction studies, we chose to study a T-DNA allele of HOS1 in the Columbia (Col) background. We identified SALK_069312 [recently renamed hos1-3 (CITATION)], which contains a single T-DNA insertion in the fifth exon of the HOS1 gene (+1,912 relative to the ATG start codon) (Fig. 1B). Quantitative reverse transcription–PCR (qPCR) analyses showed that HOS1 mRNA was nearly absent in the homozygous hos1-3 mutants (Fig. 1C), suggesting that hos1-3 is a strong loss-of-function mutation. Flowering time measurements at different ambient temperatures revealed that hos1-3 mutants showed an early flowering phenotype at both 23 and 16°C under LD conditions (10.4 and 12.9 leaves at 23 and 16°C, respectively; cf. Col plants = 15.5 and 29.7 leaves at 23 and 16°C, respectively), similar to that of hos1-1 mutants (Fig. 1A, D). These observations indicated that the ambient temperature-insensitive flowering phenotype of hos1 mutants that we observed was not allele specific. Other than the flowering time phenotype, there were no apparent defects in the overall morphology and architecture of vegetative and reproductive organs from hos1-3 mutants when grown under LD conditions at 23°C (Supplementary Fig. S1). Since most flowering time mutants generally respond to a low ambient temperature (i.e. show delayed flowering at 16°C) (CITATION), we chose to study the flowering phenotype of hos1 mutants in response to this low ambient temperature.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We examined the spatial expression patterns of HOS1 in both the shoot apex, which is the site of floral primordium emergence, and the leaf, which is the site of the initial perception of photoperiodic conditions, of wild-type plants. qPCR analysis revealed that HOS1 expression was not significantly altered in the leaf and shoot apex regions at the different temperatures tested (Fig. 1E). In contrast, the expression levels of FLC and FT, two temperature-responsive genes (CITATION), were significantly higher and lower, respectively, at 16°C, indicating that HOS1 mRNA levels were not altered at different ambient temperatures. HOS1 expression under various floral inductive stimuli was also investigated to determine the mechanism by which HOS1 regulates flowering time. HOS1 expression in wild-type plants remained unaltered by vernalization treatment (Fig. 2A), whereas the expression levels of FLC, which is an important integrator gene within the vernalization pathway, decreased. Similarly, gibberellic acid treatment did not change HOS1 expression levels in wild-type plants (Fig. 2A), whereas it did increase the expression level of SOC1, a gibberellic acid-responsive gene, during floral induction (Fig. 2A). This analysis indicates that HOS1 mRNA expression was not altered by vernalization or gibberellic acid treatment.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The response of hos1-3 plants to vernalization and gibberellic acid treatments was similar to that of wild-type plants (Fig. 2B). Both the vernalization and gibberellic acid treatments accelerated flowering in the hos1-3 mutants to a similar extent, demonstrating that hos1-3 mutants responded to the vernalization and gibberellic acid treatments. These results suggest that HOS1 is unlikely to be regulated by the vernalization and gibberellic acid pathways, which is consistent with a recent finding by CITATION, and support the notion that HOS1 mainly functions in ambient temperature-responsive flowering. The near absence of any effect of ambient temperatures on the early flowering phenotype of hos1-3 plants (Fig. 1) led us to examine the expression of flowering time genes in hos1-3 plants grown at 23 and 16°C under LD conditions. The results of the qPCR analysis indicated that the expression of both FT and TSF, which are direct targets of FLC (CITATION, CITATION), was up-regulated in hos1-3 mutants at both temperatures (Fig. 3A), while the expression of SOC1, another downstream target of FLC (CITATION, CITATION), was only marginally up-regulated. The expression levels of FCA, FVE, FLK and FY, which are important regulators of FLC in the autonomous pathway, did not change (Supplementary Fig. S2).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Because SVP, SPL3, ELF3, TFL1 and miR172 genes were known to act in ambient temperature-responsive flowering (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION), we analyzed their expression levels in hos1-3 mutants. No significant alteration in SVP, SPL3, ELF3, TFL1 and pri-miR172 expression was observed in hos1 mutants (Fig. 3B). In addition, the expression levels of SPL4, SPL5, SPL9 and FUL were not affected by hos1 mutation. Collectively, these results suggest that the early flowering phenotype of hos1-3 plants at both 23 and 16°C is likely to be due to the combined action of FT, TSF and FLC. To determine whether the reduced expression level of FLC is the main cause of the temperature-insensitive early flowering phenotype of hos1-3 mutants, we examined hos1-3 flc-3 double mutants. We compared the flowering time of hos1-3 flc-3 double mutants with that of hos1-3 single mutants at 23 and 16°C under LD conditions. The hos1-3 flc-3 double mutants flowered earlier than either of the parental single mutants at 23°C (Fig. 4A), suggesting that HOS1 acts—at least partially—in parallel with FLC in regulating flowering time. Interestingly, the responsiveness of hos1-3 flc-3 double mutants to ambient temperature was similar to that of hos1-3 mutants, which is in sharp contrast to the normal responsiveness of flc-3 mutants to different ambient temperatures, indicating that the flc mutation did not affect the ambient temperature-insensitive flowering of the hos1-3 mutants. This suggests that the ambient temperature-insensitive flowering of hos1-3 plants is genetically independent of FLC.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Because the expression levels of FT and TSF, the output genes within the thermosensory pathway (CITATION), were up-regulated in hos1-3 mutants (Fig. 3A), we examined the genetic relationship between HOS1, FT and TSF. The hos1-3 ft-10 double mutants flowered later than the hos1-3 mutants at both 23 and 16°C (Fig. 4A), which indicates that the early flowering of the hos1-3 mutants was partially suppressed by the ft mutation. Interestingly, the temperature response of the hos1-3 ft-10 double mutants was similar to that of the ft-10 mutants, which is consistent with a role for FT downstream of the thermosensory pathway (CITATION). In contrast, the flowering times of the hos1-3 tsf-1 double mutants at the different ambient temperatures were almost identical, similar to the response of hos1-3 single mutants (Fig. 4A). This suggests that increased FT activity by hos1 mutation causes the ambient temperature insensitivity of hos1-3 tsf-1 double mutants, because the flowering phenotype of tsf-1 single mutants was similar to that of wild-type plants at different temperatures. Lesions in both FT and TSF genes strongly, but not completely, delayed the flowering of hos1-3 mutants at 23 and 16°C (45.0 and 57.5 leaves in hos1-3 ft-10 tsf-1 triple mutants, respectively) (Fig. 4A). Furthermore, the temperature response of the hos1-3 ft-10 tsf-1 triple mutants was similar to that of the ft-10 tsf-1 double mutants. The strong suppression of the flowering time phenotype of hos1-3 mutants by ft and tsf mutations at different temperatures suggests that FT and TSF are downstream of HOS1 in ambient temperature-responsive flowering. The expression of FT and TSF was investigated in hos1-3 flc-3 double mutants to determine the effect of the hos1 mutation on FT and TSF expression when FLC activity is absent. The expression levels of FT and TSF were increased in hos1-3 single mutants at both temperatures (Fig. 4B). The increase in FT and TSF expression was stronger in hos1-3 mutants than in flc-3 mutants, suggesting that HOS1 exerts a stronger effect on FT and TSF expression than on FLC expression. In particular, an additive increase in the expression levels of FT and TSF was clearly seen in hos1-3 flc-3 double mutants at both 23 and 16°C (Fig. 4B). Taken together with the genetic analysis, this result supports the notion that HOS1 regulates FT and TSF expression, at least in part, in an FLC-independent manner for the regulation of ambient temperature-responsive flowering. Because some autonomous pathway mutants showed ambient temperature-insensitive flowering (CITATION, CITATION), we also tested the genetic interactions among HOS1, FVE and FLK by crossing hos1-3 mutants with fve-4 or flk-1 mutants. The hos1-3 fve-4 double mutants flowered with 15.4 and 21.5 leaves at 23 and 16°C, respectively (Fig. 4C). The number of leaves produced in hos1-3 flk-1 double mutants (14.2 and 20.1 leaves at 23 and 16°C, respectively) was lower than that produced in flk-1 mutants. However, the temperature responses of two double mutants were similar to those of their parental lines. This result indicated that hos1-3 mutation strongly, but not completely, suppressed the late flowering of fve-4 and flk-1 mutants at both temperatures and further suggested that HOS1 acts in a genetic pathway with FVE and FLK to control ambient temperature-responsive flowering. It was recently shown that HOS1 regulates CO activity in the photoperiodic control of flowering (CITATION). CO is also known to be a direct activator of FT and TSF (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). Thus, to test the effect of CO on ambient temperature-responsive flowering, we investigated the flowering phenotype of hos1-3 co-10 double mutants at 23 and 16°C under LD conditions. hos1-3 co-10 double mutants flowered with 24.3 and 33.6 leaves at 23 and 16°C, respectively (Fig. 5A), indicating that flowering of hos1-3 co-10 double mutants was apparently accelerated at 16°C. Thus, flowering of hos1-3 co-10 double mutants was almost ambient temperature insensitive, as similarly seen in hos1-3 mutants. In contrast, co-10 mutants showed ambient temperature-responsive flowering (30.1 and 55.2 leaves at 23 and 16°C, respectively). This indicated that the loss of CO activity did not alter the ambient temperature-insensitive flowering phenotype of hos1-3 mutants. Expression analysis to test the effect of the co mutation on FT and TSF up-regulation in hos1-3 co-10 double mutants revealed that hos1 mutation caused an increase in FT and TSF expression and a decrease in FLC expression in the co mutant background at both temperatures (Fig. 5B). Collectively, these results suggested that a lesion in CO does not alter the effect of HOS1 on ambient temperature-responsive flowering.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Protein–protein interactions between E3 Ub ligases and their respective proteins targeted for degradation require co-expression in both time and space for the formation of a protein complex (CITATION). We searched a public microarray database (AtGenExpress ME00319) for genes that showed spatial and temporal co-expression patterns (similarity index >80%) with HOS1 (CITATION) and identified 79 genes (Fig. 6A; Supplementary Table S1). Subsequent comparison of their expression patterns with known flowering time genes led to the identification of FVE (Fig. 6B).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To confirm co-localization of HOS1 and FVE, the subcellular localization patterns of HOS1–green fluorescent protein (GFP) and FVE–GFP were examined in onion epidermal cells incubated at 23 and 16°C. HOS1–GFP was localized in both the cytoplasm and the nucleus at 23 and 16°C (Fig. 6C). This subcellular localization of HOS1 in the nucleus at 23°C provides an explanation for the reduced level of ICE1 protein observed at warm temperatures by CITATION. At 4°C, HOS1–GFP was predominantly localized in the nucleus (Supplementary Fig. S3), consistent with an earlier observation (CITATION). In contrast, FVE protein was located in the nucleus at all of the temperatures examined (Fig. 6C; Supplementary Fig. S3). It can therefore be concluded that the subcellular localization patterns of HOS1 and FVE proteins overlap at both 23 and 16°C. The co-localization of HOS1–GFP with FVE–GFP suggested the possibility that HOS1 interacts with FVE. A yeast two-hybrid assay was therefore performed to test whether HOS1 protein does interact with FVE. Positive β-galactosidase activity was observed when HOS1 protein as bait was combined with FVE protein as prey (Fig. 6D). β-Galactosidase activity was also observed when ICE1, which is known to interact with HOS1 protein (CITATION), was used as a positive control. In contrast, β-galactosidase activity was not observed when the negative control bait (pGADT7) was used. The results of this assay demonstrate that HOS1 can interact with FVE in this yeast two-hybrid assay. Since FVE functions within the autonomous pathway and its loss-of-function allele showed a similar flowering phenotype of insensitivity to ambient temperature changes, we extended the yeast two-hybrid assay using proteins that act in the autonomous pathway. Among the autonomous pathway proteins, we found that FLK protein also interacted with HOS1 (Fig. 6D), whereas FLD protein did not. To confirm the yeast two-hybrid assay and test whether HOS1 and FVE/FLK proteins directly interact in vivo, a reciprocal co-immunoprecipitation analysis was performed using HOS1–hemagglutinin (HA) and FVE–GFP or FLK–GFP proteins. 35S::HOS1-HA was transiently expressed with 35S::FVE-GFP or 35S::FLK-GFP constructs in Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts. Protein extract was first immunoprecipitated with anti-GFP antibody and then the precipitated proteins were analyzed by Western blot using the anti-HA antibody, and vice versa. A band with the expected size of the HOS1–HA protein was detected from the anti-GFP immunoprecipitates (Fig. 6E, left). The in vivo interaction between HOS1 and FVE or FLK was also revealed in the anti-HA immunoprecipitates (Fig. 6E, right). However, no band was observed from the anti-GFP or anti-HA immunoprecipitates when only one construct was expressed. Taken together with the genetic analysis (Fig. 4C), these results suggest that HOS1 protein physically interacts with FVE and FLK to control ambient temperature-responsive flowering. The results of our experiments suggest that HOS1 is involved in ambient temperature-responsive flowering (16°C), which is in accordance with previous reports that HOS1 functions in the cold response (<4°C) (CITATION, CITATION). To test the possibility that HOS1 also acts in the intermittent cold response, we exposed hos1-3 mutants to 4°C for 6 h each day just after dawn and measured flowering time. Interestingly, hos1-3 mutants showed an almost identical flowering time whether or not they had been exposed to intermittent cold (Fig. 7A), suggesting that hos1-3 mutants do not respond to intermittent cold. In addition, the flowering time of fve-4 and flk-1 mutants that were exposed to intermittent cold was almost identical to that of the control plants which had not been exposed to intermittent cold (CITATION). However, mutants of FLD, which encodes a protein that did not interact with HOS1 protein (Fig. 6D), showed delayed flowering time with intermittent cold (Fig. 7A), indicating that fld-1 mutants do respond to intermittent cold. These data suggest that the loss-of-function alleles of HOS1, and its interacting partners, do not respond to intermittent cold.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] A qRCR analysis revealed that HOS1 expression was significantly increased by intermittent cold (Fig. 7B). CBF3 and COR15a, the positive control genes that play an important role in the cold response, are also up-regulated by exposure to intermittent cold (CITATION, CITATION). FLC expression increased and SOC1 expression decreased in response to intermittent cold, but the expression levels of FVE and FLK did not change dramatically. These results suggest that HOS1 mRNA expression is regulated by intermittent cold.
!~MM~! All mutants used in this study were Arabidopsis plants in the Col background, except for hos1-1 (C24) (CITATION). co-10, flc-3, fld-1, flk-1, ft-10, fve-4 and tsf-1 have been described previously (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). A T-DNA allele of HOS1 (SALK_069132), renamed hos1-3 (CITATION), was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC) (CITATION). The SALK_069132 line was backcrossed twice with wild-type (Col) plants to remove unwanted T-DNA fragments. The plants were grown in Sunshine Mix 5 (Quincy) or Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium at 23 or 16°C under LD [16/8 h (light/dark)] or SD [9/15 h (light/dark)] conditions with light supplied at an intensity of 120 µmol m−2 s−1. For the vernalization treatment, seeds were imbibed at 4°C for 4 weeks and planted on soil; germinating seedlings were grown under SD conditions at 23°C. For the gibberellic acid treatment, the plants were sprayed with 100 µM GA3 solution once weekly until flowering. For the intermittent cold treatment, plants were incubated at 4°C for 6 h just after dawn every day. For the analysis of flowering time, plants (approximately 10–15) were scored for the total number of primary rosette and cauline leaves. Various combinations of mutant plants were identified by PCR-based genotyping, except for fve-4. hos1-3 single mutants isolated from this study were crossed to flc-3 (CITATION), flk-1 (CITATION), ft-10 (CITATION), fve-4 (CITATION) and tsf-1 (CITATION) mutants in the Col background. To generate hos1-3 ft-10 tsf-1 triple mutants, hos1-3 ft-10 double mutants were crossed to ft-10 tsf-1 double mutants. hos1-3 co-10 double mutants were kindly provided by Dr. Jarillo (Centro de Biotecnología y Genómica de Plantas, Instituto Nacional de Investigación y Tecnología Agraria y Alimentaria-Universidad Politécnica de Madrid). The genomic DNA isolation procedure was described previously (CITATION). For the genotyping of the hos1-3 allele, JH2476, JH2477 and LBb1 primers were used. For the ft-10 allele, JH2295, JH2296 and JH2297 primers were used. For the flc-3 allele, FLC3F and FLC3R primers were used. For the fve-4 allele, the genomic region was PCR-amplified with JH2574 and JH2575 primers, and the mutated sequence was confirmed by sequencing. The oligonucleotide primers used for genotyping are listed in Supplementary Table S2. For qPCR analysis, Plant RNA Purification Reagent (Invitrogen) was used to isolate total RNA from Arabidopsis whole seedlings grown for the indicated number of days. RNA quality was determined on a Nanodrop ND-2000 spectrophotometer (Nanodrop Technologies), and only high quality RNA samples (A260/A230 >2.0 and A260/A280 >1.8) were used for subsequent qPCR experiments. To remove possible genomic DNA contamination, we treated RNA samples with DNase I (New England Biolabs) for 60 min at 37°C. RNA samples (1–2 µg) were used for cDNA synthesis in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions (Roche Applied Science). The qPCR primers were designed using SciTools at Integrated DNA Technologies (http://www.idtdna.com) with the criterion of a melting temperature (TM) of 62 ± 0.5°C. Specific amplification of PCR products was visualized in a 12% polyacrylamide gel. The qPCR analysis was carried out in 384-well plates in a LightCycler 480 system (Roche Applied Science) using Roche SYBR Green Master mixture (Roche Applied Science). The cycling program consisted of pre-denaturation for 3 min at 94°C, followed by 45 cycles of denaturation for 10 s at 94°C, annealing for 10 s at 60–62°C and elongation for 10 s at 72°C. Melting curve analysis was performed from 65 to 97°C to assess the specificity of the qPCR products. For the qPCR analysis, the ‘Eleven Golden Rules for Quantitative RT-PCR’ were followed (CITATION) to ensure a reproducible and accurate measurement of transcript levels. Samples for qPCR were harvested at Zeitgeber time (ZT) 16, at which point FT transcript levels are high (CITATION). Two reference genes (AT1G13320/AT2G28390) that are stably expressed at 23 and 16°C (CITATION) were used for quantification. All qPCR experiments were carried out in two or three biological replicates (independently harvested samples on different days) with three technical triplicates, each with similar results. The results from biological triplicates are shown. Oligonucleotide primers used for qPCR are listed in Supplementary Table S2. The procedure used for determining the relative abundance of transcripts has been described in detail elsewhere (CITATION). Threshold cycle (Ct) and PCR efficiency of the primers used were calculated using LinRegPCR (CITATION). Relative abundance of the transcripts was calculated by the statistical formula from geNorm (CITATION). The coefficient of variation (Cv) was calculated from three technical replicates according to the following formula: Cv = 100 × (standard deviation of Ct/average of Ct). The Ct and Cv values of each sample were then examined. If the Cv value of a sample was >2.0%, which indicated a reaction that deviated very significantly from the mean of three technical replicates, it was considered to be an outlier and thus excluded from further analysis. A >1.5-fold up-regulation or down-regulation was considered to be significant. Constructs for the subcellular localization studies were generated by amplifying the coding regions of HOS1 and FVE by PCR using Pfusion DNA polymerase (New England Biolabs), cloning the amplified coding regions into a Gateway entry vector and subsequently recombining the resulting vector into destination vectors (pGWB5 or pGWB6) harboring the 35S promoter and GFP using Gateway LR clonase II Enzyme mix (Invitrogen). A particle bombardment system (PDS-1000/He; Bio-Rad) was used for the delivery of DNA-coated gold particles into onion epidermal cells, as previously reported (CITATION). After 17–18 h of incubation at 23, 16 or 4°C, the subcellular localization pattern was observed by fluorescence microscopy (Carl Zeiss). The oligonucleotide primers used for cloning are listed in Supplementary Table S2. For the yeast two-hybrid analysis, the open reading frames (ORFs) of FVE, FLK, FLD and ICE1 were amplified via PCR and cloned into pGADT7 or pGBKT7 (Clontech). In the case of HOS1 protein, the C-terminal portion (from 450 to 842 amino acid residues) of HOS1 protein was used, as previously reported (CITATION). The yeast two-hybrid assay was performed as described by CITATION. For the co-immunoprecipitation experiment, the full-length ORF of HOS1 was cloned into a vector harboring the 35S promoter and HA. The full-length ORFs of FVE and FLK were cloned into a vector harboring the 35S promoter and GFP (provided by Dr. I. Hwang, POSTECH, Korea). Recombination reactions were used for cloning in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions (Clontech). The oligonucleotide primers used for cloning are listed in Supplementary Table S2. A co-immunoprecipitation analysis was performed using wild-type (Col) Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts, as described previously (CITATION). HOS1–HA protein was transiently co-expressed with FVE–GFP or FLK–GFP proteins in protoplasts by polyethylene glycol-mediated transformation. After 17–18 h incubation, immunoprecipitation was carried out using anti-GFP or anti-HA monoclonal antibodies [sc-9996 (Santa Cruz Biotechnology) and 2-2.2.14 (Pierce), respectively]. Immunoprecipitated proteins were released in 2× SDS sample buffer, separated by SDS–PAGE, and detected by Western blot using anti-HA or anti-GFP monoclonal antibodies. Arabidopsis Genome Initiative gene identifiers were as follows: CBF3 (AT4G25480); COR15a (AT2G42540); FD (AT4G35900); FLC (AT5G10140); FLD (AT3G10390); FLK (AT3G04610); FT (AT1G65480); FVE (AT2G19520); HOS1 (AT2G39810); ICE1 (AT3G26744); PP2AA3 (AT1G13320); SAND family protein (AT2G28390); SOC1 (AT2G45660); SVP (AT2G22540); and TSF (AT4G20370).
