!~ABS~! Complex I (NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase) is the entry point for electrons into the respiratory electron transport chain; therefore, it plays a central role in cellular energy metabolism. Complex I from different organisms has a similar basic structure. However, an extra structural module, referred to as the γ-carbonic anhydrase (γCA) subcomplex, is found in the mitochondrial complex I of photoautotrophic eukaryotes, such as green alga and plants, but not in that of the heterotrophic eukaryotes, such as fungi and mammals. It has been proposed that the γCA subcomplex is required for the light-dependent life style of photoautotrophic eukaryotes, but this hypothesis has not been successfully tested. We report here a genetic study of the genes γCAL1 and γCAL2 that encode two subunits of the γCA subcomplex of mitochondrial complex I. We found that mutations of γCAL1 and γCAL2 in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) result in defective embryogenesis and nongerminating seeds, demonstrating the functional significance of the γCA subcomplex of mitochondrial complex I in plant development. Surprisingly, we also found that reduced expression of γCAL1 and γCAL2 genes altered photomorphogenic development. The γcal1 mutant plant expressing the RNA interference construct of the γCAL2 gene showed a partial constitutive photomorphogenic phenotype in young seedlings and a reduced photoperiodic sensitivity in adult plants. The involvement of the γCA subcomplex of mitochondrial complex I in plant photomorphogenesis and the possible evolutionary significance of this plant-specific mitochondrial protein complex are discussed.
!~RES~! We isolated clones corresponding to the Arabidopsis γCAL2 gene from a yeast two-hybrid screen in our search for proteins that interact with the blue light receptor CRY2 (CITATION; CITATION; X. Yu, unpublished data). The Arabidopsis genome encodes three closely related γCAs, γCA1, γCA2, and γCA3, and two γCA-like proteins, γCAL1 and γCAL2, which together form the γCA subcomplex of the mitochondrial complex I (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; Supplemental Fig. S1). The amino acid sequences of the three γCA subunits contain all critical and evolutionarily conserved residues in the γCAs, whereas the two γCAL subunits lack two critical His residues that are conserved in the carbonic anhydrases and, therefore, are not likely to be catalytically active (CITATION; CITATION; Supplemental Fig. S1). γCA1, γCA2, and γCA3 are more closely related to each other (approximately 75% identity) than they are to γCAL1 and γCAL2 (approximately 30% identical; Supplemental Fig. S1). The γCAL1 and γCAL2 genes, which share approximately 90% amino acid sequence identity, appear to express constitutively without obvious responses to light or circadian rhythm (Supplemental Fig. S2). The γCAL1 and γCAL2 proteins have been previously identified in the Arabidopsis mitochondrial fraction by systematic mass spectrometry analyses (CITATION; CITATION). To verify the subcellular localization, we prepared and examined transgenic plants expressing γCAL1-YELLOW FLUORESCENT PROTEIN (YFP) and γCAL2-YFP proteins. We found that the γCAL1-YFP and γCAL2-YFP fusion proteins accumulate exclusively in mitochondria in the transgenic plants (Fig. 1, B–E). Given that Arabidopsis CRY2 performs all the known functions and undergoes light-dependent protein modifications in the nucleus (CITATION), γCAL2 seems unlikely to be directly involved in the function or regulation of CRY2, and our initial yeast two-hybrid result is most likely an often-encountered artifact in such experiments. However, we cannot completely exclude the remote possibility that CRY2 and γCAL2 may interact in the cytosol before they are imported into their respective organelles. Because of a potential involvement of these mitochondrial proteins in light-dependent plant growth and development (CITATION), we continued our study to investigate the physiological functions of γCAL1 and γCAL2. We first collected and analyzed a complete set of T-DNA insertion mutants of the genes encoding each of the five subunits of the Arabidopsis γCA subcomplex, including γca1, γca2, γca3, γcal1, and γcal2 (Supplemental Figs. S3 and S4). None of the monogenic mutants or the ca1ca3 double mutant showed easily discernible phenotypic alternation (Supplemental Fig. S4). These results are consistent with previous reports on phenotypes of ca2 and ca3 mutants (CITATION). Transgenic plants overexpressing the γCAL1 and γCAL2 genes also showed no apparent phenotypic alterations (X. Yu, unpublished data). We reasoned that the γCAL1 and γCAL2 genes may have redundant functions, given that they share over 90% sequence identity (Supplemental Fig. S1), and prepared the double mutant by a conventional genetics method. However, we failed to identify the cal1cal2 double mutant after genotyping over 500 F2 progeny derived from reciprocal crosses of γcal1 and γcal2 mutants (X. Yu, unpublished data). Because plants homozygous for one γCAL gene but heterozygous for the other gene (c1c1C2c2 or C1c1c2c2) showed a normal phenotype, we suspect that the c1c1c2c2 double mutant may suffer from embryonic defects. To test this possibility, we examined young siliques derived from parents that are homozygous for the mutation of one γCAL gene but heterozygous for the mutation of the other gene (c1c1C2c2 or C1c1c2c2). We found that young siliques derived from the c1c1C2c2 or C1c1c2c2 parents contain approximately 20% to 25% colorless ovules (Fig. 2A, left), which appeared to turn deep brown at the later stage of silique development (Fig. 2A, right). Those colorless/deep-brown ovules were apparently delayed in embryogenesis to various extents, in comparison with that of the normal green ovules (Fig. 2, B and C). A statistical analysis demonstrated that the colorless/deep-brown phenotype of the c1c1C2c2 parents (23.91%) exhibits the 3:1 segregation ratio (Table I), indicating that those abnormal ovules are the double mutant progeny of the c1c1C2c2 parent. The colorless/deep-brown phenotype of the C1c1c2c2 parents (19.94%) appears to deviate from the 3:1 segregation (Table I). These results suggest that the cal2 mutation has a nearly normal penetrance for the colorless/deep-brown ovule phenotype, whereas the cal1 mutation may have a less than normal penetrance. [[FIGURE]] The young siliques of the indicated genotypes were dissected using a microscope to examine the ovules. The numbers of normal (green) and defective (colorless) ovules were calculated and are shown. The frequency of the colorless ovules of c1c1C2c2 (23.91%) is consistent with the 3:1 segregation ratio. The frequency of colorless ovules observed in young siliques of the C1c1c2c2 hemizygote parent (19.94%) deviates from the 3:1 segregation, indicating a less than perfect penetrance of the ycal mutation. The frequency of colorless ovules observed in young siliques derived from the 35S::CAL1/c1c1c2c2 transgenic plant (1.53%) is similar to that of the wild-type control (0.35%), indicating rescue of the colorless ovules of the c1c1c2c2 double mutant by the 35S::CAL1 transgene. Surprisingly, in contrast to a common embryonic defective mutant, we did not observe an abnormal number of aborted embryos in the mature siliques of the c1c1C2c2 and C1c1c2c2 plants (Fig. 2A, right). We reasoned that the colorless/deep-brown ovules might complete their development to set seeds, but the double mutant seeds may fail to germinate. This explains why we were unable to find the double mutant in the F2 plants. To test this interpretation, we examined the germination rate of the seeds harvested from the selfed c1c1C2c2 and C1c1c2c2 parents (Table II). In contrast to the wild-type seeds that showed the germination rate of higher than 99%, about 20% to 25% of seeds derived from the selfed c1c1C2c2 and C1c1c2c2 parents failed to germinate (Table II). As a control, the seeds resulting from the reciprocal crosses between the wild-type and the c1c1C2c2 and C1c1c2c2 plants showed normal germination rates (Supplemental Table S1), suggesting that the nongerminating seeds derived from selfed c1c1C2c2 and C1c1c2c2 parents are the double mutants. Similar to the colorless/deep-brown ovule phenotype, the cal2 mutation had a nearly normal penetrance for the nongermination phenotype, whereas the cal1 mutation had a less than normal penetrance for the germination phenotype (Supplemental Table S1). Seeds harvested from individual siliques of the indicated genotype were germinated on MS plates for 7 d, and the frequency of nongerminating seeds was calculated on the basis of a single silique. The frequency of nongerminating seeds harvested from the c1c1C2c2 hemizygote parents (24.58) is consistent with the 3:1 segregation ratio. The frequency of nongerminating seeds harvested from the C1c1c2c2 hemizygote parent (20.31%) deviates from the 3:1 segregation, indicating a less than perfect penetrance of the γcall mutation. The frequency of nongerminating seeds harvested from the 35S::CAL1/c1c1c2c2 transgenic plant (0.32%) is similar to that of the wild-type control (0.39), indicating rescue of the colorless ovules of the c1c1c2c2 double mutant by the 35S::CAL1 transgene. We confirmed that the colorless ovule and nongerminating seed phenotypes both result from the c1c1c2c2 double mutation by genotyping and complementation tests (Figs. 2D and 3; Tables I and II). We first collected the nongerminating seeds from the progeny derived from selfed c1c1C2c2 parents and genotyped those seeds. Indeed, the nongerminating seeds derived from the c1c1c2C2 hemizygote parents contained T-DNA inserts in both the γcal1 and γcal2 mutant loci, and they lacked the intact γCAL1 and γCAL2 genes (Fig. 2D). For the complementation assay, we transformed the C1c1c2c2 plants with the 35S::CAL1 transgene and genotyped the transgenic individuals (Basta resistant) in the T2 generation (Fig. 3). All T2 Basta-resistant individuals grew normally and showed normal ovules and seed germination (Tables I and II). We randomly selected some T2 Basta-resistant individuals to identify those that showed homozygous γcal1 and γcal2 mutations (c1c1c2c2; Fig. 3A). In contrast to our previous failure in identifying any c1c1c2c2 individuals homozygous for both the γcal1 and γcal2 mutations in over several hundred progeny of the C1c1c2c2 parent, we readily identified individuals homozygous for both mutations (c1c1c2c2) in the Basta-resistant transgenic progeny of the C1c1c2c2 parent (Fig. 3A). We then examined the existence of the 35S::CAL1 transgene in plants of the c1c1c2c2 genotype and found that all c1c1c2c2 double mutant plants also contained the 35S::CAL1 transgene (Fig. 3B). This result confirmed that the c1c1c2c2 double mutant was rescued by the 35S::CAL1 transgene. We conclude that the cal1cal2 double mutation caused the defective embryogenesis and nongerminating seed phenotypes and that the γCAL1 and γCAL2 genes are essential for plant development. [[FIGURE]] Since the monogenic γcal1-1 and γcal2-1 mutants showed no phenotype alteration whereas the c1c1c2c2 double mutant failed to germinate, we sought to generate intermediate phenotypes to facilitate functional analysis using a “knockdown” approach. We prepared γCAL2 RNA interference (RNAi) transgenic lines in the wild type or the cal1 mutant backgrounds, which are referred to as c2i or c1c2i knockdown lines, respectively. Both knockdown lines showed similar phenotypes (Figs. 4 and 5; Supplemental Fig. S5; data not shown), but we focused on the c1c2i knockdown lines for the following analyses (Figs. 4–7). The c1c2i knockdown lines showed reduced expression of the γCAL1 and γCAL2 genes without affecting the mRNA expression of the three γCA genes of the γCA subcomplex (Fig. 5A; Supplemental Fig. S6). The phenotypic alterations of the c1c2i knockdown plants are observed in multiple independent transgenic lines (Figs. 4–7), arguing that the phenotypic alterations described are due to the reduced expression of the γCAL1 and γCAL2 genes. Consistent with the observation that the c1c1c2c2 double mutant failed to germinate, the c1c2i knockdown lines showed delayed germination (Fig. 4). After germination, the c1c2i plants appeared to grow normally, except that they exhibited smaller stature (Fig. 5; Supplemental Fig. S5). By the time the wild-type plants developed four true leaves, the c1c2i plants had only two true leaves, and the leaves of the c1c2i plants remained markedly smaller than those of the wild type throughout the life cycle (Fig. 5; Supplemental Fig. S5). It remains unclear whether the smaller stature of the c1c2i plants results from delayed germination or retarded growth or both. In addition to the effect on the organ and plant size, decreased expression of the γCAL1 and γCAL2 genes also affects leaf morphology and leaf senescence (Supplemental Fig. S7). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The c1c2i seedlings grown in the dark exhibited typical etiolated phenotypes similar to the wild-type seedlings, including elongated hypocotyls, unexpanded cotyledons, and normal apical hook, although the c1c2i seedlings had slightly shorter hypocotyls than the wild-type control seedlings (Fig. 6A). However, when grown under light, the c1c2i seedlings developed a more pronounced shorter hypocotyl phenotype, and they also showed shorter petioles (Fig. 6, A and B). A fluence-rate analysis using different monochromatic lights demonstrates that c1c2i seedlings are hypersensitive to light in a wavelength-independent manner (Fig. 6B). This result demonstrates a functional association between the mitochondrial γCA subcomplex and photomorphogenesis. Light-grown c1c2i seedlings also showed increased anthocyanin accumulation (Fig. 6A). The gene encoding the key enzyme of anthocyanin synthesis, chalcone synthase, was expressed higher in c1c2i than in the wild-type seedlings (Fig. 6C). Similar to the hypocotyl phenotype, CHS expression was markedly exaggerated in light-grown c1c2i seedlings relative to the etiolated c1c2i seedlings. [[FIGURE]] In addition to the altered photomorphogenic development of young seedlings, decreased expression of γCAL1 and γCAL2 also affects photoperiod-dependent reproductive development of the knockdown plants (Fig. 7). When grown in long-day photoperiods, the c1c2i plants clearly exhibited a late-flowering phenotype measured by both “days to flower” and “rosette leaf number” (Fig. 7A). Although the c1c2i plants grown in short-day photoperiods also took longer to flower than did the wild-type control as measured by days to flower, the c1c2i and wild-type plants developed the same number of rosette leaves at the time of flowering in short days (Fig. 7B). This result argues that the apparent late-flowering phenotype of the c1c2i plants grown in the short-day photoperiod is due to a retardation of growth rather than a delay in floral initiation per se (CITATION). Consistent with the notion that γCAL1 and γCAL2 expression affects photoperiodic flowering, genes closely associated with the photoperiodic control of floral initiation, such as CO, SOC1, and FT, showed markedly reduced mRNA expression in the c1c2i plants, whereas another flowering-time gene, FLC, which is an autonomous pathway gene not directly involved in the photoperiodic control of flowering time, showed normal expression in the c1c2i plants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; Fig. 7C). Importantly, the development-dependent change of mRNA expression for the photoperiodic pathway genes FT and SOC1, but not the autonomous pathway gene FLC, is almost abolished in the c1c2i plants (Fig. 7C). Given the essential role of γCAL1 and γCAL2 in plant development (Figs. 1–5), this result argues that the developmental impacts of these two mitochondrial proteins affect the photoperiodic pathway more than the autonomous pathway that controls floral initiation. Taken together, we conclude that γCAL1 and γCAL2 play important roles in light-dependent plant growth and development. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Most Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) γca and γcal mutants and all transgenic lines described in this study are from the Columbia accessions, except the γcal2 mutant, which is from the Wassilewskija accession. All the mutants were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. Plant transformation and genetic, photomorphogenic, DNA, and RNA analyses were as described previously (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). For the embryonic phenotype analyses, young (green) and mature (brown) siliques (15–20 per sample) were collected from 3- to 4-week-old plants, opened with a needle using a dissecting microscope, and examined with the microscope. To measure germination rates, seeds from individually collected siliques were grown in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium for 7 d under continuous light before counting the germinating seeds. Additional methods and primers (Supplemental Table S2) used in the genomic and quantitative PCR can be found in the Supplemental Materials and Methods S1. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Sequence analysis of the γCAL and γCA proteins. Supplemental Figure S2. Light-independent mRNA expression of γCAL1 and γCAL2. Supplemental Figure S3. Genotyping of the γcal1 and γcal2 mutants. Supplemental Figure S4. Phenotypes of adult plants of the indicated genotypes. Supplemental Figure S5. mRNA expression of the γCA genes are not affected in the c1c2i knockdown plants. Supplemental Figure S6. Analyses of transgenic lines expressing the CAL2-RNAi construct in the wild-type background (c2i). Supplemental Figure S7. Morphological defects of leaves of the c1c2i knockdown plants. Supplemental Figure S8. The growth retardation phenotype of the c1c2i knockdown plants is not rescued by the high-CO2 growth condition. Supplemental Figure S9. Reduced expression of the γCAL1 and γCAL2 genes modestly affects the maximum quantum efficiency of PSII. Supplemental Figure S10. Normal photosynthetic apparatus of the c1c2i mutant plants. Supplemental Figure S11. Possible biochemical functions of the γCAL proteins. Supplemental Table S1. Normal gametogenesis of the c1c2C2c2 and C1c1c2c2 hemizygotes. Supplemental Table S2. Oligonucleotide primers used in this study. Supplemental Materials and Methods S1.
