!~ABS~! Phototropins (phot1 and phot2), plant-specific blue light receptor kinases, mediate a range of physiological responses in Arabidopsis, including phototropism, chloroplast photorelocation movement, stomatal opening and leaf flattening. Phototropins consist of two photoreceptive domains at their N-terminus, LOV1 (light, oxygen or voltage 1) and LOV2, and a serine/threonine kinase domain at their C-terminus. Here, we determined the molecular moiety for the membrane association of phototropins using the yeast CytoTrap and Arabidopsis protoplast systems. We then examined the physiological significance of the membrane association of phototropins. This detailed study with serial deletions narrowed down the association domain to a relatively small part of the C-terminal domain of phototropin. The functional analysis of phot2 deletion mutants in the phot2-deficient Adiantum and Arabidopsis mutants revealed that the ability to mediate the chloroplast avoidance response correlated well with phot2’s membrane association, especially with the Golgi apparatus. Taken together, our data suggest that a small part of the C-terminal domain of phototropins is necessary not only for membrane association but also for the physiological activities that elicit phototropin-specific responses.
!~RES~! To examine the biochemical properties of the phototropin membrane association, we first compared the solubility of membrane-localized phototropins in various buffers with different concentrations of detergents such as Triton X-100 (Fig. 1), CHAPS and octyl glucoside (OG). The pelleted (P) fractions, which were recovered by high-speed ultracentrifugation of the extract in the absence of detergent, contained most phot1 and phot2. We then treated the P fractions with different concentrations of Triton X-100 (0–1%) and subjected them to high-speed ultracentrifugation. Consequently, the amounts of phot1 and phot2 recovered in the solubilized fraction (PS) gradually increased as the concentration of Triton X-100 increased. With 1% Triton X-100, the majority of the phot1 and phot2 was solubilized into the PS fraction (Fig. 1A, B). In contrast, a plasma membrane-spanning proton pump P-type H+-ATPase (CITATION, CITATION) was primarily detected in the pellet (PP), even after treatment with 1% Triton X-100 (Fig. 1C). We also confirmed that phototropins were easily solubilized by treatment with 0.5% CHAPS and 40 mM OG (data not shown).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Next, we examined whether ionic interactions contributed to the membrane association of phototropins. Protein extracts were prepared in extraction buffer containing various concentrations of NaCl (0–0.5 M) and then subjected to protein fractionation by high-speed ultracentrifugation. Both phot1 and phot2 were detected only in the P fraction even at the highest NaCl concentration (Fig. 2A, B). As expected, the H+-ATPase did not dissociate from the membrane fraction due to NaCl treatment (Fig. 2C). These results indicate that electrostatic interactions do not contribute greatly to the association between phototropins and membranes. Collectively, these data essentially confirm previous findings for phot1 in oat and pea seedlings (CITATION, CITATION). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The CytoTrap yeast two-hybrid system (Stratagene) is a conventional system used to detect protein–protein interactions in the cytosol rather than in the nucleus (Stratagene manual). Namely, the human Sos protein (hSos), when fused to a bait protein, can complement the cdc25-induced growth defect only when it is recruited to the plasma membrane through a cytosolic interaction with a membrane-anchored prey protein (Supplementary Fig. S1A, left) or a direct interaction with the plasma membrane or yeast membrane proteins (Supplementary Fig. S1A, right; see also the Stratagene manual). If such conditions are met, hSos allows yeast cell growth at a restrictive temperature (37°C) (Supplementary Fig. S1A, right). When yeast cells expressing the hSos-phototropin (AtPHOT1, AtPHOT2 or CrPHOT) fusion proteins were subjected to normal (23°C) and restrictive (37°C) temperatures, the cells grew normally even in the absence of the interacting prey protein (Supplementary Fig. S1B), indicating that phototropins exhibited membrane localization activity in yeast cells. As expected, when phototropins were expressed without hSos, they failed to allow cell growth at the restrictive temperature (data not shown). Thus, the membrane recruitment of hSos occurred only when it was fused to phototropins (Supplementary Fig. S1B). In summary, the CytoTrap system was successfully adopted to examine the membrane association activity of phototropins in yeast. It should be noted that we cannot discriminate the direct interaction of phototropins with the membrane from a direct interaction with a yeast plasma membrane protein. Taking advantage of the modified CytoTrap assay, we systematically examined the membrane association activity of various phototropin derivatives. Because full-length AtPHOT1 and AtPHOT2 allowed yeast growth at the restrictive temperature, we first examined the activity of the N- and C-terminal fragments of those phototropins. The C-terminal but not the N-terminal fragments exhibited membrane association activity in yeast (Fig. 3A). Essentially identical results were also obtained with CrPHOT (Supplementary Fig. S2A). Collectively, these data are essentially consistent with the previous findings that P2C is necessary and sufficient for the plasma membrane localization (CITATION, CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We then examined a series of C-terminal deletion mutants of AtPHOT2 for their membrane association activity (Fig. 3B). As shown in Fig. 3B, C-terminal deletions shorter than 34 amino acids did not affect the membrane association activity. In contrast, AtPHOT2 with deletions longer than 42 amino acids failed to exhibit membrane association activity (Fig. 3B). Similarly, the deletion of 35 amino acids in AtPHOT1 resulted in the complete loss of the membrane association activity (Fig. 3C). These results indicate that a short amino acid stretch of 10–20 amino acid residues residing at the very C-terminal end of the phototropins is important for the membrane association activity. To address whether a lack of protein stability accounted for the lack of membrane association activity, we evaluated protein levels of GFP-tagged phot2 deletion mutant proteins in yeast using confocal microscopy. The intensities of GFP fluorescence in the C-terminal deletion mutants were comparable with hSos–GP2 (full-length phot2 tagged with GFP at the N-terminus) and hSos–P2G (full-length phot2 tagged with GFP at the C-terminus) regardless of membrane association activity (Supplementary Fig. S3C–K). Interestingly, hSos–GP2 and hSos–P2G (and also hSos–GP1) as well as the deletion mutants [hSos–P2(ΔLOV1)G, hSos–P2(Δ25)G and hSos–P2(Δ9)G] exhibited both plasma membrane and punctate localizations (Supplementary Fig. S3B, Supplementary Data, Supplementary Data, Supplementary Data, Supplementary Data, Supplementary Data). In contrast, the C-terminal deletion mutants [hSos–P2(Δ146)G, hSos–P2(Δ65)G and hSos–P2(Δ42)G] were observed exclusively in a part of the cytoplasm with a faint uniform signal throughout the cytoplasm although hSos–P2NG was observed uniformly in the cytoplasm (Supplementary Fig. S3E, Supplementary Data). Hence, the loss of membrane association activity in the C-terminal deletion mutants in the yeast cells is strongly correlated with the intracellular localization rather than a lack of protein stability. AtPHOT2 was chosen for further analysis of the membrane association activity of the C-terminal kinase fragment. The N-terminal deletion experiments revealed that the 69 amino acid deletion 534–603 abolished the membrane association activity (Fig. 3B), indicating the positive contribution of this region to membrane association. However, the intensities of GFP fluorescence were significantly reduced in the C-terminal fragments of phot2 (hSos–P2C312G, hSos–P2C249G and hSos–P2C179G) compared with that of hSos–P2CG, although punctate stains were consistently observed (Supplementary Fig. S3L–O). More importantly, relatively short C-terminal fragments of AtPHOT2 (AtPHOT2-C110 and -C84) exhibited membrane association activity by themselves (Fig. 3B), although the intensities of GFP fluorescence were faintly observed in the cytoplasm without any punctate staining (Supplementary Fig. S3P, Supplementary Data). Similarly, AtPHOT1-C77, which is a counterpart of AtPHOT2-C84, also retained the membrane association activity (Fig. 3B). Furthermore, a similar fragment of the PINOID protein kinase, which is another member of the AGC VIII protein kinase subfamily (CITATION), exhibited membrane association activity as well (Supplementary Fig. S4). Taken together, a relatively small region within the C-terminal kinase domain (831–881 in AtPHOT2) was indicated to be important for not only the plasma membrane association but also punctate staining distribution (Fig. 3B; Supplementary Fig. S3). Interestingly, this region is highly conserved in the AGC VIII serine/threonine kinase family (Fig. 3D), although no known membrane association/interaction motif is found in this region. To confirm the results obtained in the yeast cells, we examined the membrane association activity of AtPHOT1, AtPHOT2, CrPHOT and their derivatives in the Arabidopsis leaf protoplast. First, full-length phototropins fused to GFP were transiently expressed in Arabidopsis leaf protoplasts by polyethylene glycol (PEG) transformation. Consequently, strong GFP fluorescence was observed exclusively in the plasma membrane region (Fig. 4A, a1–3; Supplementary Figs. S2B, Supplementary Data, Supplementary Data), as is the case with H+-ATPase:mRFP (monomeric red fluorescent protein), a plasma membrane marker (Supplementary Fig. S6A; CITATION). Furthermore, the GFP-fused phototropins were detected at the proper molecular sizes in the immunoblot analysis of the microsomal fractions prepared from the protoplasts (Fig. 4C; Supplementary Figs. S2C, Supplementary Data). The modified CytoTrap results (Fig. 3A; Supplementary Fig. S2A) were confirmed for full-length phototropins in plant cells.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The intracellular localizations of the C-terminal phot2 deletion mutants were then examined in the mesophyll protoplasts. Although the deletion of 25 and 31 amino acids of the phot2 C-terminal region (GP2-Δ25 and GP2-Δ31) did not affect localization compared with GP2 (Fig. 4A, b1–c3), deletions of 34 and 42 amino acids substantially reduced the membrane association activity (Fig. 4A, d1–e3). The deletion of 42 amino acids of the phot2 C-terminal region (GP2-Δ42) abolished the membrane association activity and accumulated strongly in the cytoplasm (Fig. 4A, e1–3; Supplementary Fig. S6B, Supplementary Data). To clarify the membrane association activity of GP2-Δ42 in comparison with GP2 in the protoplast cell, we carried out protein fractionation. An amount of GP2-Δ42 was also found in the P fraction, but the ratio of the S to the P fraction in GP2-Δ42 increased compared with that of GP2 (Fig. 4C). We obtained a similar result for phot1: the mutant containing a deletion of 35 amino acids of the phot1 C-terminal region (GP1-Δ35) accumulated mostly in the cytoplasm and less on the plasma membrane (Supplementary Fig. S5A, Supplementary Data). It remains unclear why AtPHOT2-Δ34 in yeast cells (Fig. 3B) and GP2-Δ34 in the protoplasts (Fig. 4A, d1–3) exhibited different localization patterns. The deletion of 34 amino acids might only partially reduce the activity. In such a situation, the apparent localization patterns obtained in different experimental systems might be more difficult to compare. In the yeast CytoTrap system, the C116 and C84 C-terminal fragments of AtPHOT2 exhibited membrane association activity (Fig. 3B). Therefore, we examined whether the same fragment was localized in the plasma membrane region in protoplasts. Consequently, GFP fluorescence of P2C84G was uniformly observed on the plasma membrane and in the cytosol, as with the expression of GFP alone (Fig. 4B). This was somewhat contradictory to the result of the modified CytoTrap assay (Fig. 3B). Therefore, we quantitatively analyzed the localization of P2C84G in the protoplast cell by protein fractionation. P2C84G was recovered similarly in the P and S fractions, whereas GFP was found primarily in the soluble fraction and much less in the microsomal fraction (Fig. 4D). Thus, significant membrane association activity of P2C84G was demonstrated in protoplasts, although the activity was not high enough to localize P2C84G exclusively to the plasma membrane. It is noted here that the expression levels in the transient expression system are relatively high. Hence, it is plausible that overproduced proteins could be localized to the cytoplasm rather than exclusively to the plasma membrane when membrane recruitment is saturated. We then examined the intracellular localization of AtPHOT2 with C-terminal deletions in transgenic Arabidopsis. Transgenic plants expressing P2(Δ25)G, P2(Δ42)G or P2(Δ65)G were established in the phot1phot2 double-mutant background. The GFP fluorescence intensity and immunoblot analysis indicated that the level of P2(Δ25)G expression was comparable with that of P2G in 35-P2G (Fig. 5A, B, D). In darkness, P2G and P2(Δ25)G was localized strongly to the plasma membrane and weakly in the cytoplasm (Fig. 5A, a1, B, b1; CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). Although the expression was lower than that of P2G and P2(Δ25)G, P2(Δ42)G exhibited a reduced signal in the plasma membrane but a relative signal in the cytoplasm (Fig. 5C, c1). The protein fractionation confirmed that P2(Δ42)G was recovered in similar amounts in the P fraction and the S fraction, but larger amounts of the wild type, P2G and P2(Δ25)G were recovered in the P fraction compared with the S fraction (Fig. 5D). Thus, the C-terminal 42 amino acid residues retain some activity regarding the plasma membrane localization of phot2 in transgenic plants, although they were necessary for membrane association in the yeast cells (Fig. 3B) as well as in the protoplasts (Fig. 4A). In addition, P2(Δ65)G exhibited a similar fractionation pattern to P2(Δ42)G (Fig. 5D), but the expression level was too low to determine the intracellular localization pattern using confocal microscopy (data not shown).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In contrast to the dark condition, the intracellular localization patterns of P2(Δ42)G were somewhat different from that of full-length phot2. Namely, punctate distribution patterns, presumably representing the association with the Golgi apparatus (CITATION), were observed after several passes of the confocal laser (wavelength peak at 488 nm) in the transgenic plants that expressed P2G and P2(Δ25)G (Fig. 5A, a2, B, b2). In contrast, no clear punctate fluorescence was observed for P2(Δ42)G in response to multiple confocal laser scanning or actinic blue light (a light-emitting diode with a wavelength peak at 470 nm) (Fig. 5C, c2, d, e). We further confirmed that P2(Δ42)G never exhibited a punctate distribution in protoplasts, in which the Golgi marker KAM1ΔC:mRFP (CITATION) was visible as punctate fluorescence (Supplementary Fig. S6C, Supplementary Data). Thus, we concluded that the 42 amino acids of the C-terminus were necessary for the Golgi-specific localization of phot2 in plant cells. CITATION reported that the C-terminal 40 amino acid residues of Acphot2 were necessary for the chloroplast avoidance response in the fern Adiantum capillus-veneris L. These amino acid residues correspond to the C-terminal 42 amino acid residues in Atphot2 (Fig. 3D). The C-terminal 42 amino acid residues in Atphot2 were important for Golgi localization but were possibly not very important for the plasma membrane localization in transgenic Arabidopsis (see above). Therefore, we examined the physiological activity of P2(Δ42)G in typical phototropin responses, such as chloroplast photorelocation, phototropism and leaf flattening. To assess the physiological activity of a series of C-terminal deletion mutants [GP2 – GP2(Δ65)], we employed the Adiantum transient expression system (CITATION) in which the chloroplast avoidance response can be conventionally tested. We first examined whether GP2 complemented the defective avoidance response of the BHC-08 mutant, which is deficient in phot2 (CITATION). Consequently, full complementation of the mutant phenotype was observed (Table 1). Similarly, GP2(Δ25), (Δ31) and (Δ34) exhibited clear responses to microbeam irradiation with strong blue light (Table 1). However, the activity appeared to be gradually decreased as the 36–39 C-terminal amino acid residues were removed. Finally, GP2(Δ42) and (Δ65) completely failed to elicit the chloroplast avoidance response (Table 1), which was consistent with the loss of the membrane association activity in these derivatives (Fig. 3B; Supplementary Fig. S3).  We next examined the P2(Δ42)G-expressing transgenic Arabidopsis for chloroplast accumulation and avoidance responses. The chloroplasts in P2(Δ42)G in low light conditions were sparsely distributed on the upper surface of the cell, which resembled the phot1phot2 cells, indicating that P2(Δ42)G was deficient in the low light-induced accumulation response as well (Fig. 6A). However, the accumulation response was unexpectedly retained in the P2(Δ42)G transgenic Arabidopsis. Namely, chloroplasts were in the accumulation position rather than the avoidance position under the high light condition, which means that P2(Δ42)G failed to elicit the avoidance response in this condition in Arabidopsis, as was observed in Adiantum cells (Table 1). Notably, the chloroplasts exhibited the accumulation position under high light, indicating that P2(Δ42)G retained partial activity and was able to elicit the accumulation response.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To examine the biological activities of the C-terminal deletion mutants in other phot2 responses, the P2(Δ25)G, P2(Δ42)G and P2(Δ65)G transgenic lines were tested for the phototropic response and leaf flattening. Interestingly, P2(Δ42)G complemented the deficiency in the phototropic response in response to high intensity blue light (40 µmol m−2 s−1) (Fig. 6B) and leaf flattening (Fig. 6C). Because the expression level of P2(Δ42)G was relatively low in these lines (Fig. 5D), P2(Δ42)G appeared to be as active as the authentic phot2 for these responses. In contrast to P2(Δ42)G, P2(Δ65)G was totally incapable of mediating the phototropic and leaf flattening response (Fig. 6B, C), although the expression level was quite low in this transgenic line (Fig. 5D). Conversely, P2(Δ25)G was fully functional for both responses, as expected (Fig. 6B, C).
!~MM~! The gl-1 mutant, as the wild-type control, and the phot1, phot2 and phot1phot2 mutants were described previously (CITATION, CITATION). Seeds were planted on 0.6% agar plates containing half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with 1% sucrose at pH 5.8. Plants were grown in a plant growth chamber or a growth room controlled at 16 h/8 h (day/night), 23°C. For phototropic analysis, sterilized seeds were sown on 0.8% agar (w/v) medium containing half-strength MS salts without sucrose at pH 5.8. cDNAs of Arabidopsis PHOT1 and PHOT2 (CITATION), and Chlamydomonas PHOT (CITATION) were used for vector construction. AtPHOT1, AtPHOT2 and CrPHOT were translationally fused at their 5′- and/or 3′-coding end to the GFP gene, and the genes were inserted between the 35S promoter and the nos terminator in the P35S:GFP/pUC transient vector (CITATION). The deletion derivatives were generated by PCR amplification. Oligonucleotides containing the specific restriction sites were used to clone the PCR products that were subsequently subcloned into the corresponding sites of their respective vectors. For transgenic plants, plasmids were constructed by replacing their respective genes with the PHOT2 gene of the P35S:P2G binary vector (CITATION). The resulting binary vectors were transformed into phot1phot2 double mutants as previously described (CITATION). Kanamycin-resistant plants were selected on MS agar containing 35 mg l−1 kanamycin (Wako) and 100 mg l−1 claforan (Sanofi-Aventis). The kanamycin resistance co-segregated tightly with the fluorescence of the fusion proteins in every line. All analyses were performed using independent transformants from the T3 generation. The membrane recruitment test of phototropins in yeast was performed using the yeast CytoTrap system (Stratagene) with the guidance of the manufacturer’s instructions. Temperature-sensitive tests were performed at 23 and 37°C in the dark. Protein fractionation was carried out using the methods described previously (CITATION). Immunoblot analysis of GFP fusion proteins was performed using an anti-GFP monoclonal antibody (MBL) as previously described (CITATION). The microsomal fractions were collected by centrifugation (100,000×g) at 4°C for 1 h, resuspended in a buffer containing chaotropic agents, sodium salt or 1% Triton X-100, and incubated on ice for 30 min. The solutions were further fractionated into the supernatant and the pellet by centrifugation (100,000×g) at 4°C for 1 h. The resultant fractions were separated on 7.5% SDS–polyacrylamide gels, transferred onto nitrocellulose membranes (Hybond C, Amersham), and probed with an anti-phot1 (CITATION), anti-phot2 (CITATION) and anti-H+-ATPase (CITATION) polyclonal antibodies, respectively. Phototropic responses were examined by measuring the hypocotyl curvature in response to unilateral blue light as previously described (CITATION). For chloroplast positioning, the mesophyll cells were inspected on the adaxial side of the rosette leaves. For leaf flattening, the pictures of rosette leaves were taken of plants grown in soil in 6 cm diameter plastic pots for 3 weeks, as previously described (CITATION). To examine whether the clones showing loss and/or retention of membrane recruitment activity complemented the mutant phenotype of phot2, the clones were introduced transiently into the phot2-deficient Adiantum gametophytes by particle bombardment as previously descried (CITATION). The gametophytes were incubated overnight at 25°C, and the transformed prothalial cells were selected by screening the cellular GFP fluorescence. The prothalial cells were mounted on an agarose-filled glass slide. The chloroplast avoidance response induced by high fluence blue light was analyzed by microbeam irradiation using the indicated light intensities (60 µmol m−2 s−1) (CITATION, CITATION). GFP fusion proteins were employed to test the intracellular localization of Crphot, Atphot1, Atphot2 and their fragmented domains, which had already been tested for membrane recruitment in yeast and underwent functional analysis in Adiantum (Fig. 3; Table 1). The respective plasmid constructs were used for transient expression. The protoplast was prepared from the rosette leaves of 4-week-old phot1phot2 double mutants (approximately 1×107 protoplasts per 0.5 g of leaf tissues), and the fusion gene constructs were transiently expressed in the protoplasts using PEG-mediated transformation as previously described (CITATION). An aliquot of 5–10 µg of plasmid DNA was used for ∼1×106 protoplasts, and observation was performed 12–18 h after dark incubation using confocal microscopy. Confocal laser scanning microscopy and image analysis were performed as previously described (CITATION). The filter sets were 510–530 nm for GFP, 580–630 nm for mRFP and 630–750 nm for chlorophyll autofluorescence (Olympus).
