!~ABS~! Xylan is made of a linear chain of β-1,4-linked xylosyl residues, some of which are substituted with side chains, such as glucuronic acid (GlcA), methylglucuronic acid (MeGlcA) and arabinose, depending on the source of xylan. Although past studies have revealed a number of genes involved in the elongation of the xylan backbone and the addition of GlcA and arabinosyl side chains, no genes have been shown to be implicated in glucuronoxylan methylation. In this report, we investigated the roles of three Arabidopsis genes, namely GLUCURONOXYLAN METHYLTRANSFERASE1 (GXM1), GXM2 and GXM3, in xylan biosynthesis. The GXM1/2/3 genes were found to be expressed in secondary wall-forming cells and their expression was regulated by SND1, a secondary wall master transcriptional switch. Their encoded proteins were shown to be located in the Golgi, where xylan biosynthesis occurs. Chemical analysis of cell wall sugars from single and double mutants of these genes revealed that although no alterations in the amount of xylose were observed, a significant reduction in the level of MeGlcA was evident in the gxm3 single mutant and the gxm double mutants. Structural analysis of xylan demonstrated that the gxm mutations caused a specific defect in GlcA methylation on xylan without affecting the frequency of xylan substitution. Only about 10% of the GlcA residues on xylan were methylated in the gxm2/3 double mutant, whereas in the wild type 60% of the GlcA residues were methylated. Furthermore, an activity assay demonstrated that recombinant GXM proteins exhibited a methyltransferase activity capable of transferring the methyl group from S-adenosylmethionine onto GlcA-substituted xylooligomers and simultaneous mutations of GXM2/3 genes caused a loss of such a methyltransferase activity. Taken together, our results provide the first line of genetic and biochemical evidence that the three DUF579 domain-containing proteins, GXM1, GXM2 and GXM3, are methyltransferases catalyzing 4-O-methylation of GlcA side chains on xylan.
!~RES~! The Arabidopsis secondary wall master transcriptional switch, SND1, is capable of activating the secondary wall biosynthetic program when overexpressed (CITATION), indicating that SND1 can be used as a tool to search for new genes involved in secondary wall biosynthesis. By analyzing those genes induced by SND1 (CITATION), we have previously demonstrated the involvement of several SND1-induced genes in xylan biosynthesis (CITATION, CITATION). In this study, we focused on five additional SND1-induced genes that encode DUF579 domain-containing proteins, namely GXM1 (At1g09610), GXM2 (At4g09990), GXM3 (At1g33800), IRX15 (At3g50220) and IRX15L (At5g67210). These five SND1-induced genes belong to a DUF579 family that consists of a total of 10 members (Fig. 1A), suggesting that they may function redundantly in secondary wall biosynthesis, and thus they were chosen for further studies. Quantitative PCR analysis showed that the expression of all these five genes was significantly induced by SND1 overexpression (Fig. 1B). In contrast, their expression was drastically reduced in the SND1/NST1 RNA interference lines (Fig. 1C), in which secondary wall thickening was completely inhibited in fibers (CITATION). At the organ level, all these five genes were predominantly expressed in stems in which abundant secondary wall-containing fibers and xylem cells are produced (Fig. 1E). At the tissue level, all these five genes were found to be highly expressed in fibers and xylem cells that undergo secondary wall thickening, but not in parenchymatous pith cells (Fig. 1D). One GXM close homolog, At1g71690 (Fig. 1A), was mainly expressed in flowers and its expression was not regulated by SND1 (Fig. 1B, C) or associated with xylem and interfascicular fibers in stems (Fig. 1D). Thus, the At1g71690 gene was not further analyzed for its function. The specific expression of GXM genes in secondary wall-forming cells was further confirmed by in situ hybridization (Fig. 2). While the IRX15 and IRX15L genes were previously shown to be involved in xylan biosynthesis (CITATION, CITATION), the functions of the GXM1/2/3 genes are currently unknown; therefore, we investigated their roles in secondary wall biosynthesis.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The finding that GXMs are specifically expressed in secondary wall-forming cells indicates their involvement in the biosynthesis of secondary wall components, such as cellulose and xylan. Since cellulose and xylan biosynthetic machineries are located in the plasma membrane and the Golgi, respectively, we first examined which subcellular compartments GXM proteins are located in. Sequence analysis of GXMs using the TMHMM2.0 program for prediction of transmembrane helices in proteins (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/service/TMHMM-2.0) predicts that they are typical type II membrane proteins containing one transmembrane helix (Fig. 3A–C). Subcellular localization studies using fluorescence protein tagging in carrot protoplasts revealed that the GXM proteins were co-localized with FRA8 (Fig. 3F–Q), a family of GT47 glycosyltransferase known to be located in the Golgi (CITATION). The control protoplasts expressing yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) alone showed fluorescent signals throughout the cytoplasm (Fig. 3D, E). The Golgi localization of GXMs indicate that they may be involved in the biosynthesis of xylan, which is synthesized in the Golgi.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To find out whether GXMs play a role in xylan biosynthesis, we obtained T-DNA insertion lines of the three GXM genes (Fig. 4A) and further generated their double mutants for xylan analysis. Sugar composition analysis of cell wall residues from stems of these mutants showed no drastic reduction in xylose in the gxm mutants (Table 1), which is different from many known xylan-deficient mutants in which the xylose content is significantly reduced (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). In contrast, measurement of GlcA and MeGlcA amounts in the total cell walls revealed that although the GlcA level was not significantly altered in the gxm mutants (Fig. 4B), the MeGlcA level was drastically reduced in the gxm3 single mutant and the three double gxm mutants (Fig. 4C). This phenotype is exactly opposite to that of many known xylan-deficient mutants in which all GlcA side chains become methylated (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). Since the GXM genes are specifically expressed in secondary wall-forming cells, this finding indicates that GXMs are probaby involved in the methylation of GlcA side chains on xylan.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To investigate whether GXM mutations indeed affect the methylation of GlcA side chains on xylan, we isolated xylan from the gxm mutants for analysis of the MeGlcA side chains. Xylooligosaccharides were generated by digestion of the isolated xylan with xylanase and subsequently subjected to matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF-MS) (Fig. 5). Xylooligosaccharides generated from wild-type xylan exhibited signal peaks corresponding to the GlcA-substituted Xyl4 (m/z 745) and the MeGlcA-substituted Xyl4 (m/z 759). In the wild type, the MeGlcA-substituited Xyl4 peak is predominant compared with the GlcA-substituted Xyl4, which is typical for wild-type xylan (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). A significant reduction in the signal peak for the MeGlcA-substituted Xyl4 was seen in the gxm3 single mutant and the gxm1/3 and gxm2/3 double mutants (Fig. 5). In particular, in the gxm2/3 double mutant, the GlcA-substituited Xyl4 peak became dominant and only a low level of the MeGlcA-substituited Xyl4 signal peak remained. The other two single mutants, gxm1 and gxm2, and the gxm1/2 double mutant also exhibited a reduction in the ratio of the MeGlcA-substituted Xyl4 signal peak over that of the GlcA-substituted Xyl4 (Fig. 5). These results demonstrated that the GXM mutations result in a defect in the methylation of GlcA side chains on xylan.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To substantiate further the MALDI-TOF-MS data, the xylooligosaccharides generated by xylanase digestion of xylan from the wild type and the gxm mutants were analyzed by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy (Fig. 6). Xylan from the wild type displayed resonances characteristic of H1 of GlcA and MeGlcA side chains at 5.295 and 5.28 p.p.m., respectively. It also exhibited resonances attributed to the backbone xylosyl residues (H1 of branched and unbranched at 4.62 and 4.46 p.p.m., respectively) and the xylan reducing end tetrasaccharide sequence, β-d-Xyl-(1 → 3)-α-l-Rha-(1 → 2)-α-d-GalA-(1 → 4)-d-Xyl (H1 of 3-linked β-d-Xyl, H1 of α-l-Rha, H1 of α-d-GalA, H2 of α-l-Rha and H4 of α-d-GalA) (CITATION). Examination of xylan from the gxm mutants showed that the signal peaks for H1 of MeGlcA were reduced in all of the single and double mutants. The most significant reduction occurred in the gxm3 single mutant and the gxm1/3 and gxm2/3 double mutants (Fig. 6), which is consistent with the MALDI-TOF-MS data (Fig. 5). The reduction in the level of MeGlcA was also evident in the signal peaks for H1 of MeGlcA-branched β-Xyl and H5 of MeGlcA. Integration analysis of the NMR spectra confirmed that in addition to the gxm3, gxm1/3 and gxm2/3 mutants, the gxm1 and gxm2 single mutants and the gxm1/2 double mutant also had various degrees of reduction in the amount of MeGlcA compared with the wild type (Table 2). NMR analysis did not show a reduction in the amount of MeGlcA in the gxm1/2 mutant as significant as that shown by chemical analysis of total cell walls (Fig. 4C). This discrepancy is most likely to be due to the fact that pure xylooligomers were used for MeGlcA detection in the NMR analysis, whereas the chemical analysis detected the amount of MeGlcA in total cell walls, which may give rise to more variations. The gxm2/3 double mutant exhibited the highest reduction in the amount of MeGlcA, with only 20% of the wild-type level remaining. The gxm mutations apparently did not cause a decrease in the frequency of GlcA addition on xylan (Table 2), indicating that the methyl groups are transferred onto GlcA side chains after they are added onto xylan and a defect in methyl group transfer does not affect the GlcA substitution. Together, these results provide genetic evidence demonstrating that all three GXM genes are involved in the methylation of GlcA side chains on xylan.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To substantiate further the role of GXMs in the methylation of GlcA side chains on xylan, we analyzed the glucuronoxylan methyltransferase activity in the wild type and the single and double gxm mutants. Putative cation-dependent glucuronoxylan methyltransferase activities were previously detected in particulate enzyme preparations from corn cobs and pea epicotyls (CITATION, CITATION). In these studies, the particulate enzyme mixture was incubated with S-adenosyl-l-methionine as a methyl donor without addition of an exogenous acceptor. It was found that the enzyme mixture was able to transfer the methyl group onto an endogenous macromolecular acceptor, which was determined to be glucuronoxylan. We first set out to assay the glucuronoxylan methyltransferase activity in wild-type Arabidopsis stem microsomes using methyl-radiolabeled S-adenosyl-l-methionine as the methyl donor in the presence or absence of possible acceptors. It was found that no methyltransferase activity was detected in wild-type microsomes when no exogenous acceptor was added or when GlcA, UDP-GlcA or Xyl4 were used as acceptors (Fig. 7A). In contrast, a high level of methyltransferase activity was found when GlcA-substituted Xyl4 isolated from the gxm2/3 double mutant was used as an acceptor (Fig. 7A), demonstrating that wild-type Arabidopsis microsomes possess a glucuronoxylan methyltransferase activity that is capable of catalyzing the transfer of the methyl group from the S-adenosyl-l-methionine donor onto the GlcA-substituted xyloligomer acceptor.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Examination of the glucuronoxylan methyltransferase activity in the gxm mutants revealed a significant loss of the activity in the gxm3 single mutant and the gxm1/3 and gxm2/3 double mutants compared with the wild type (Fig. 7B). In particular, the glucuronoxylan methyltransferase activity was very low in the gxm2/3 double mutant. These results are consistent with the chemical analysis data of the xylan structure in the gxm mutants and indicate that GXMs are methyltransferases that catalyze the transfer of the methyl group onto GlcA side chains on xylan. To validate that GXMs are glucuronoxylan methyltransferases, we generated and purified GXM recombinant proteins fused with maltose-binding protein (MBP) from Escherichia coli and used them for an activity assay. Purified fusion proteins of GXM1, GXM2 and GXM3 fused with MBP (42.5 kDa) had the expected molecular weights of 70.8, 72.2 and 72.9 kDa, respectively (Fig. 8A). GXM fusion proteins were assayed for methyltransferase activity using methyl-radiolabeled S-adenosyl-l-methionine as a methyl donor and GlcA-substituted Xyl4 isolated from the gxm2/3 double mutant or Xyl4 as an acceptor. It was found that the recombinant GXM1, GXM2 and GXM3 exhibited a high level of methyltransferase activity that was able to transfer the radiolabeled methyl group onto the GlcA-substituted Xyl4 acceptor but not unsubstituted Xyl4 (Fig. 8B). The control reactions using the MBP alone showed no such methyltransferase activity. The GXM-catalyzed reaction products were further analyzed by NMR spectroscopy, revealing a significant elevation of signals in the peaks corresponding to 4-O-methylated GlcA (Fig. 9). Integration analysis showed that while the GlcA-substituted xylooligomer acceptor used for methyltransferase activity assay had only 13% of GlcA methylated, the degree of methylated GlcA in the GlcA-substituted xylooligomer acceptor was increased to 34, 31 and 35%, respectively, after incubation with the GXM1, GXM2 and GXM3 recombinant proteins (Fig. 9). It appeared that all three GXMs exhibited a similar level of methyltransferase activities, which is probably attributed to the large amount of recombinant proteins used for the activity assay. These results unequivocally demonstrate that GXM1, GXM2 and GXM3 are glucuronoxylan methyltransferases catalyzing 4-O-methylation of GlcA.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The gxm single and double mutant plants grew at a normal rate like the wild type (Fig. 10A) and the mechanical strength of their stems was not significantly altered compared with that of the wild type, except for the gxm2/3 double mutant in which a population of plants showed reduced stem mechanical strength (Fig. 10B). Examination of interfascicular fibers in stems did not reveal a significant alteration in secondary wall thickening (Fig. 11). These results indicate that a reduction in the degree of methylation on glucuronoxylan has no observable impact on plant growth or the total cell wall deposition.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Mutations of IRX15 and IRX15L, which encode DUF579 domain-containing proteins, were previously shown to cause a reduction in xylan xylosyltransferase activity and an increase in wall digestibility by cellulase (CITATION, CITATION). We therefore decided to investigate whether the GXM mutations have any effect on xylan xylosyltransferase activity and wall digestibility. An assay of xylan xylosyltransferase using stem microsomes and the exogenous Xyl6 acceptor showed no significant alterations in the xylosyltransferase activity in the gxm mutants compared with the wild type, although a slight change in the xylosyltransferase activity was observed in the gxm1 and gxm2 single mutants and the gxm double mutants (Fig. 12A). A wall digestibility test demonstrated that the cellulose digestion efficiency by cellulase and cellobiase was similar between the wild type and the gxm mutant plants (Fig. 12B), indicating that an alteration in the degree of GlcA methylation on xylan has no effect on the accessibility and digestibility of cellulose by cellulases.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Total RNAs from Arabidopsis tissues were isolated with a Qiagen RNA isolation kit. RNAs from different cell types (interfascicular fibers, xylem and pith cells) were isolated and amplified as described previously (CITATION). The first-strand cDNAs converted from total RNAs were used as templates for real-time quantitative PCR analysis with the QuantiTect SYBR Green PCR kit (Clontech). The PCR primers for GXM1 are 5′-acaggaaacagggaggagagactg-3′ and 5′-ctatggacaaaagggtctatttgattc-3′; those for GXM2 are 5′- ttggctcgtaaccgttatgacggt-3′ and 5′-tcaaaagcggcgactgatatccgc-3′; those for GXM3 are 5′-tggctcgtaaccgtgaagatggtg-3′ and 5′-ttaacggcggcgatcaacttccac-3′; those for At1g71690 are 5′-tgtttgtgcatgatgtggatagga-3′ and 5′-ttaaggacagaatttaacgccgga-3′; those for IRX15 are 5′-agacgcatgtgtttgtgcatgact-3′ and 5′-ttaagacaaagacgaaaccgaacg-3′; and those for IRX15L are 5′-ccgaagacgcatgtgtttgttcat-3′ and 5′-tcaagccgatggagaagaaacaga-3′. The relative expression level was calculated by normalizing the PCR threshold cycle number of each gene with that of the EF1α reference gene. The data were the average of three biological replicates. Reverse transcription–PCR was applied to examine the transcript levels of GXM genes in the T-DNA insertion lines. Arabidopsis stems were fixed in 2.5% formaldehyde and 0.5% glutaraldehyde, embedded in paraffin, and sectioned for in situ mRNA localization (CITATION). Digoxigenin-labeled antisense and sense RNA probes of GXM cDNAs were generated using the DIG RNA labeling mix (Roche). Stem sections were hybridized with the antisense and sense probes, and the hybridization signals were detected by incubating with alkaline phosphatase-conjugated antibodies against digoxigenin and subsequent color development with alkaline phosphatase substrates. Subcellular localization of GXMs was determined by co-transfecting YFP-tagged GXM fusion proteins and a cyan fluorescent protein (CFP)-tagged Golgi marker (FRA8; CITATION) into carrot (Daucus carota) protoplasts (CITATION). The full-length cDNAs of the GXM genes were fused in-frame with the YFP cDNA and ligated between the Cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter and the nopaline synthase terminator in pBI221 (Clontech). Fluorescence signals in transfected protoplasts were visualized using a Leica TCs SP2 spectral confocal microscope (Leica Microsystems). At least five fluorescence-positive protoplasts were examined, and the same subcellular localization pattern was observed for each construct. Images were saved and processed with Adobe Photoshop Version 7.0 (Adobe Systems). Inflorescence stems from mature plants were used for cell wall isolation according to CITATION. Neutral cell wall sugars (as alditol acetates) were determined following the procedure described by CITATION. The alditol acetates of the hydrolyzed cell wall sugars were analyzed on a PerkinElmer Clarus 500 gas–liquid chromatograph instrument equipped with a 30 m × 0.25 mm (i.d.) silica capillary column DB 225 (Alltech Associates). GlcA and MeGlcA amounts in total cell walls were measured according to CITATION. Xylan from the wild type and the gxm mutants was digested with β-endoxylanase M6 (Megazyme) to generate xylooligosaccharides, which were used for MALDI-TOF-MS according to CITATION. The spectrometer was operated in the positive-ion mode with an accelerating voltage of 30 kV, an extractor voltage of 9 kV and a source pressure of approximately 8 × 10−7 torr. The aqueous sample was mixed (1 : 1 , v/v) with the MALDI matrix (0.2 M 2,5-dihydroxbenzoic acid and 0.06 M 1-hydroxyisoquinoline in 50% acetonitrile) and dried on a stainless steel target plate. Spectra are the average of 100 laser shots. NMR spectra of the xylooligosaccharides from β-xylanase digestion were acquired at 20°C on a 600 MHz spectrometer (599.7 MHz, 1H) using a 3 mm cryogenic triple resonance probe with an SMS autosampler (Agilent). All NMR samples were prepared with 100% D2O in 3 mm standard NMR tubes. 1H chemical shifts were referenced to DSS (2,2-dimethyl-2-silapentane-5-sulfonate sodium salt). For all experiments, 128 transients were collected using a spectral width of 6,000 Hz and an acquisition time of 5 s. The residual water resonance was suppressed by a 1 s pre-saturation pulse at a field strength of 40 Hz. 1D spectra were processed using Mnova (MestreC Research) with 0.2 Hz apodization followed by zero-filling to 128 k points. The 1H-NMR assignments were done by comparing them with the NMR spectra data for xylan structure (CITATION, CITATION). The cDNAs of GXM1, GXM2 and GXM3 without the transmembrane domain sequences were PCR-amplified using specific primers (5′-acatcttcacaggaacaccagact-3′ and 5′-ctatggacaaaagggtctatttgattc-3′ for GXM1; 5′-aaaagagcaagcttctcttccaat-3′ and 5′-tcaaaagcggcgactgatatccgc-3′ for GXM2; and 5′-aacatctcttcttcctcttcaaag-3′ and 5′-ttaacggcggcgatcaacttccac-3′ for GXM3). The GXM cDNAs were ligated in-frame into the bacterial expression vector pMAL, which is tagged with an MBP (New England BioLabs), and the fusion proteins were expressed in E. coli. MBP-tagged recombinant GXM proteins were purified using amylose resin and confirmed by SDS–PAGE. Microsomes isolated from 6-week-old inflorescence stems and purified recombinant GXM proteins were used for the methyltransferase activity assay (CITATION). For each assay, microsomes (100 µg) or recombinant GXM proteins (50 µg) were incubated with the reaction mixture (50 µl) containing 100 mM HEPES-KOH, pH 7.0, 1 mM CoCl2, 0.5% Triton X-100, 1 µg µl−1 GlcA-substituted Xyl4 isolated from the gxm2/3 double mutant, and S-[14C-methyl]adenosylmethionine (0.1 µCi; American Radiolabeled Chemical). For NMR analysis of GXM-catalyzed reaction products, non-radiolabeled S-adenosylmethionine (1 mM) and 100 µg of recombinant proteins were used. After 2 h incubation at room temperature, the reaction mixture was boiled in water and the radiolabeled reaction products, [14C]MeGlcA-substituted xylooligomers, were separated from S-[14C-methyl]adenosylmethionine by passing through AG1-X4 anion exchange resin (CITATION). After extensive washing with water to remove S-[14C-methyl]adenosylmethionine, the bound [14C]MeGlcA-substituted xylooligomers were eluted with 3 N acetic acid and the eluate was counted for the amount of radioactivity with a Perkin Elmer scintillation counter. The basal parts of the main inflorescence stems of mature plants were fixed in 2% formaldehyde and embedded in low viscosity (Spurr’s) resin (Electron Microscopy Sciences) (CITATION). Sections 1 µm thick were cut with a microtome and stained with toluidine blue for light microscopy. For transmission electron microscopy, 85 nm thick sections were cut, post-stained with uranyl acetate and lead citrate, and observed using a Zeiss EM 902A transmission electron microscope. The basal parts of inflorescence stems of mature plants were measured for their breaking force using a digital force/length tester (Larson System) (CITATION). Breaking force was calculated as the force needed to break apart a stem segment. The xylosyltransferase activity in microsomes isolated from inflorescence stems was assayed according to CITATION. For each assay, microsomes (100 µg) were incubated with the reaction mixture containing 50 mM HEPES-KOH, pH 6.8, 5 mM MnCl2, 1 mM dithiothreitol, 0.5% Triton X-100, 0.1 mM cold UDP-Xyl (CarboSource Service), 0.2 µg µl−1 Xyl6 (Megazyme) and UDP-[14C]Xyl (0.1 µCi; American Radiolabeled Chemical). The reaction products were separated from UDP-[14C]Xyl by paper chromatography according to CITATION and counted for the amount of radioactivity with a Perkin Elmer scintillation counter. The digestibility of cell wall residues with cellulase enzymes was determined according to CITATION. Briefly, the ethanol-insoluble cell wall residues (equivalent to 100 mg of glucose) were incubated with cellulase (52 U; Celluclast 1.5L from Sigma) and cellobiase (16 U; Sigma) in 0.1 M sodium acetate buffer (pH 4.8) at 37°C for 72 h. After centrifugation, the supernatant was used to quantify neutral sugars released from cellulose using gas chromatography as described above. The enzyme mixture without the addition of cell wall residues was used as a blank. Under the same conditions, the enzyme mixture was able to digest 90% of Whatmann No. 1 filter paper cellulose into glucose. Two independent assays were performed on all samples. The Arabidopsis Genome Initiative locus identifiers for the Arabidopsis genes investigated in this study are GXM1 (At1g09610), GXM2 (At4g09990), GXM3 (At1g33800), IRX15 (At3g50220) and IRX15L (At5g67210).
