!~ABS~! 3′-Phosphoadenosine 5′-phosphosulfate (PAPS) is the high-energy sulfate donor for sulfation reactions. Plants produce some PAPS in the cytosol, but it is predominantly produced in plastids. Accordingly, PAPS has to be provided by plastids to serve as a substrate for sulfotransferase reactions in the cytosol and the Golgi apparatus. We present several lines of evidence that the recently described Arabidopsis thaliana thylakoid ADP/ATP carrier TAAC transports PAPS across the plastid envelope and thus fulfills an additional function of high physiological relevance. Transport studies using the recombinant protein revealed that it favors PAPS, 3′-phosphoadenosine 5′-phosphate, and ATP as substrates; thus, we named it PAPST1. The protein could be detected both in the plastid envelope membrane and in thylakoids, and it is present in plastids of autotrophic and heterotrophic tissues. TAAC/PAPST1 belongs to the mitochondrial carrier family in contrast with the known animal PAPS transporters, which are members of the nucleotide-sugar transporter family. The expression of the PAPST1 gene is regulated by the same MYB transcription factors also regulating the biosynthesis of sulfated secondary metabolites, glucosinolates. Molecular and physiological analyses of papst1 mutant plants indicate that PAPST1 is involved in several aspects of sulfur metabolism, including the biosynthesis of thiols, glucosinolates, and phytosulfokines.
!~RES~! Investigations of the APK gene family and the observation that plastids are the main site of PAPS synthesis clearly revealed the need for a specific transporter to enable the export of PAPS from plastids to the cytosol (Figure 1). Such a transporter is important for the provision of PAPS for the synthesis of GS and is thus most probably part of GS synthesis network. In search for such a plastidic PAPS exporter in Arabidopsis, we searched publically available transcriptome profiles for genes coexpressed with genes associated with GS biosynthesis (ATTED, www.atted.jp), such as CYP79B2, CYP83B1, SUR1, UGT74B1, and MYB122 (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Additionally, we searched for putative transporters among genes upregulated in the Arabidopsis apk1 apk2 mutant as almost all genes of the GS biosynthetic network were induced in this mutant (CITATION). Using this approach, we identified genes involved in sulfate assimilation, PAP metabolism, and other GS synthesis-related genes, but also two candidate transporters (see Supplemental Table 1 online). These transporters (At1g12500 and At5g01500) and their closest homologs (At3g10290 and At3g51870) were considered as promising candidates due to their properties; therefore, we tested them for their involvement in GS biosynthesis and potential to transport PAPS. The phosphometabolite transporters At1g12500 (KVAG1) and At3g10290 (KVAG2) are structurally related to Golgi-resident PAPS transporters from animals and thus might mediate a similar transport in Arabidopsis. Both proteins, which are named according to their amino acid composition at the putative substrate binding site “KVAG,” belong to the drug/metabolite transporter superfamily, which also includes the nucleotide-sugar transporter family (CITATION). TAAC, the thylakoid ADP/ATP carrier (At5g01500), exhibits distinct homology with carriers transporting diverse adenine nucleotides and PAP or APS and, thus, also represents an interesting PAPS transporter candidate (CITATION; CITATION). First, we analyzed whether or not the steady state mRNA levels of these candidate genes were affected in HIG1/MYB51 and HAG1/MY28 overexpression lines. These two MYB transcription factors are the main regulators of indolic and aliphatic GS biosynthesis, respectively (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION, CITATION; CITATION). As shown in Figure 2A, the TAAC steady state transcript level was significantly increased in HIG1/MYB51 and HAG1/MYB28 overexpression lines compared with the wild type. This was not the case for the phosphometabolite transporters At1g12500 and At3g10290 and the TAAC homolog At3g51870. Furthermore, the ability of HIG1/MYB51 and HAG1/MYB28 to trans-activate candidate promoters was analyzed in cotransformation assays (CITATION). Cultured Arabidopsis Columbia-0 (Col-0) cells were infiltrated with an Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain carrying the regulators of GS biosynthesis as effector and different reporter constructs containing the uidA (β-glucuronidase [GUS]) reporter gene driven by two different lengths of the TAAC promoter [ProTAAC-(2) and ProTAAC-(3)]. Arabidopsis cells transiently expressing both reporter and effector constructs showed significantly increased GUS activity for both promoter constructs, demonstrating the ability of HIG1/MYB51 and HAG1/MYB28 to trans-activate the TAAC gene (Figure 2B; see Supplemental Figure 1 online). As a positive control, the promoter of the BAT5 gene was used, which has been recently shown to represent a target for HAG1/MYB28 (CITATION). Conversely, the promoters of the phosphometabolite transporters At1g12500 and At3g10290, and At3g51870 do not seem to be targeted by these transcription factors. As a negative control, the transcription factor MYB4 was used, which is not involved in the control of biosynthesis of sulfated compounds and which was unable to trans-activate both TAAC and BAT5. Together, these experiments, which have been statistically confirmed in independent biological and technical replicates (see Supplemental Figure 1 online), demonstrate that the expression of TAAC is controlled by GS-related transcription factors and therefore makes it the best candidate to test for function as a PAPS transporter. [[FIGURE]] TAAC belongs to the mitochondrial carrier family (MCF) and was previously characterized as an ADP/ATP carrier by ATP and ADP transport measurements. For this, intact Escherichia coli cells were used that expressed the recombinant protein without the N-terminal plastidic targeting sequence (CITATION). We performed a detailed biochemical investigation of a similarly truncated TAAC in the liposomal system to test its ability to transport PAPS, PAP, and structurally related molecules. Functional reconstitution was performed according to the protocol used for characterization of the adenylate carrier ADNT1 from Arabidopsis (CITATION). This involved expression of the transporter in E. coli cells, enrichment and solubilization of inclusion bodies, and their functional refolding in presence of lipid/detergent micelles (CITATION). The TAAC protein aggregates were isolated from heterologous host cells (see Supplemental Figure 2A online), solubilized, and reconstituted into liposomes. Transport studies using radiolabeled ATP revealed significant ATP uptake into ATP- and ADP-preloaded TAAC-liposomes, but no import was measurable with non-preloaded proteoliposomes. Notably, ATP homo-exchange (ATP for ATP) exceeded the rates of ATP uptake into ADP-preloaded vesicles (see Supplemental Figure 2B online). This verifies that TAAC is functionally inserted into the lipid vesicles and that it catalyzes a counter-exchange of adenine nucleotides. Moreover, corresponding import of ADP was low (∼7 nmol mg protein−1 h−1), often instable or hardly detectable (similar to uptake into nonpreloaded vesicles); therefore, ADP represents an inferior substrate. This is generally consistent with the results obtained in intact E. coli cells also exhibiting higher rates for ATP than for ADP import (CITATION). It was previously documented that the recombinant TAAC is specific for ATP and ADP because very high concentrations (50-fold excess) of these adenine nucleotides, but not of ADP-Glc, AMP, GTP, or GDP, competed with the radioactively labeled ATP (50 µM) for uptake (CITATION). To investigate the substrate spectrum of TAAC in more detail and to test whether it can transport PAPS, we conducted [α-32P]ATP import studies in the presence of moderate (10-fold) excess of 20 different nonlabeled adenine and guanine nucleotides, adenine nucleotide derivatives, precursors, and cofactors. Apart from nonlabeled ATP and ADP, also PAPS, PAP, and dATP significantly reduced ATP uptake into TAAC-liposomes, whereas other molecules, like GTP, AMP, or APS, did not or only marginally compete with ATP (Table 1). [α-32P]ATP import into differently loaded vesicles was analyzed to investigate whether, apart from ATP and ADP, other internally applied molecules can also drive ATP import and thus act as TAAC substrates (Figure 3). Indeed, ATP import was also measurable into PAPS- and PAP-preloaded vesicles. Highest [α-32P]ATP uptake occurred in exchange with internal PAPS or ATP, followed by PAP, whereas internal ADP caused only minor transport. APS was unable to drive ATP import, as shown by corresponding rates that were in the same range as those observed with nonloaded vesicles (Figure 3). The assays showed apparent Ki (binding affinities) values for PAPS and PAP of ∼40 µM to inhibit ATP uptake compared with Km values of 85 µM for ATP and 259 µM for ADP, a low affinity substrate. Addition of ∼800 µM PAPS or PAP was required to reduce ATP uptake to 10% (Table 2, inhibitory concentration resulting in 90% inhibition of ATP uptake [IC90]). Moreover, ADP apparently is transported with lower maximal velocity when compared with the other substrates. These results suggest that TAAC preferentially transports PAPS, PAP, and ATP (Table 2). [[FIGURE]] To extend these observations, TAAC was heterologously expressed in yeast cells. Total yeast membranes were isolated and reconstituted into liposomes to assess TAAC transport characteristics using radiolabeled [35S]PAPS instead of ATP for import measurements. As shown in Table 3, the transport of PAPS into the proteoliposomes was absolutely dependent on the presence of PAP or ATP on the opposite side of the membrane. Table 3 also shows that ATP and PAP are the best transported counter-exchange substrates and that ADP is accepted with lower efficiency, whereas AMP does not serve as a TAAC substrate. Furthermore, the kinetic constants for PAPS transport were determined in the reconstituted yeast system. The apparent Km for PAPS was determined to be ∼40 µM. The apparent Ki values of ATP and PAP for the transport of PAPS were determined to be similar with values of 70 to 80 µM (Table 4). This indicates again that PAPS is the preferred substrate of TAAC. In accordance with the substrate specificities shown in Table 3, the apparent Ki value for ADP is ∼4 times higher, again demonstrating that ADP does not serve as a preferred substrate. Taken together, we conclude from transport experiments using radiolabeled ATP and PAPS that PAPS, ATP, and PAP represent the most efficient substrates of TAAC, whereas ADP plays a comparably minor role and APS and AMP are not transported. Thus, TAAC can be characterized as a PAPS transporter. From now on, therefore, the TAAC is additionally termed PAPST1 for PAPS transporter 1 (TAAC/PAPST1), for the sake of simplicity hereinafter preferentially referred to as PAPST1. Like typical MCF proteins, PAPST1 exhibits six hydrophobic helical regions, clearly indicating its localization in a membrane environment. The identified substrate preferences, particularly the capacity for PAP and PAPS transport, suggest that PAPST1 not only acts as an ADP/ATP exchanger in thylakoids, as shown previously (CITATION), but might also play a role in the transport of PAPS across the envelope membrane. The protein possesses an N-terminal extension (transit peptide) predicted to act as a plastid targeting signal (http://aramemnon.botanik.uni-koeln.de/index.ep) (CITATION). Previous studies with green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusions verified a localization of TAAC in chloroplasts (CITATION). More detailed immunolocalization studies detected the protein prevalently in thylakoids but to some extent also in the envelope (CITATION). Furthermore, PAPST1 was identified as a chloroplast envelope protein in several independent proteome studies (CITATION; CITATION). To assess if PAPST1 is indeed localized in chloroplast envelopes, we performed targeting analyses of full-length PAPST1-GFP fusions under control of either the endogenous (ProPAPST1:PAPST1:GFP) or the 35S cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV; Pro35S:PAPST1:GFP) promoter. The constructs were transiently expressed in cultured Arabidopsis root cells, Arabidopsis leaf mesophyll protoplasts, and Arabidopsis leaves. GFP was targeted to the plastids independent of the used system or promoter. Due to the lack of thylakoid structures, PAPST1:GFP was solely detectable in plastid envelope membranes when expressed in cultured Arabidopsis root cells (Figures 4A and 4B) but was detectable in the chloroplast envelope membrane and presumably also in thylakoids in the assay with mesophyll protoplasts (Figures 4D and 4E) and transfected leaves (Figures 4G to 4I). The plastidic triose phosphate/phosphate translocator (TPT) fused to red fluorescent protein (RFP) and GFP, which was used as a positive control for envelope localization, was detected in plastid envelope membranes in cultured Arabidopsis root cells (Figure 4C), mesophyll protoplasts (Figure 4F), and transfected leaves (Figures 4J to 4L). Thus, both PAPST1-GFP and TPT-RFP revealed a comparable pattern of fluorescent protein distribution in chloroplast envelopes. Furthermore, the imaging of ProPAPST1:PAPST1:GFP in mesophyll protoplasts and leaves of Arabidopsis revealed an overlap of chlorophyll autofluorescence (i.e., thylakoids, with PAPST1-GFP) (Figures 4D, 4E, and 4G to 4I), supporting a dual localization of PAPST1 within a chloroplast. Altogether, our experiments demonstrate that PAPST1 is located in chloroplast envelope membranes, consistent with its role as a PAPS transporter. [[FIGURE]] To allow a more detailed investigation of the organ- and tissue-specific expression, we performed a PAPST1 promoter-reporter gene analysis using three different DNA fragments for expression analysis. Two sequences included the first two exons and introns and varied in the putative promoter lengths upstream of the translation initiation codon, whereas the third construct comprised the full-length genomic DNA sequence, a 523-bp promoter fragment upstream of the translation initiation codon, and the 3′-untranslated region (UTR) region. Corresponding sequences were fused with the uidA (GUS) gene, plants were stably transformed with the different constructs, and GUS activity was subsequently analyzed. The intensity of blue staining differed from construct to construct; however, all plants exhibited similar tissue-specific expression patterns. Highest GUS activity resulted from the third construct containing not only the promoter, but also the full-length PAPST1 gene and the 3′-UTR region (Figure 5). Interestingly, considerable promoter activity occurred in both photosynthetic and nonphotosynthetic organs of young seedlings and mature plants but was also present in growing tissues, like in the shoot apical meristem, flower meristem, or in root tips (Figures 5A to 5D, 5F, and 5H). Investigation of seed development revealed that in early embryogenesis, GUS staining was equally distributed in the endosperm and the plant embryo (Figure 5J). At later developmental stages (during organ expansion and maturation), GUS synthesis became relocated and restricted to the embryo and adjacent cells (Figure 5K). Promoter activity remained high in the embryo during late maturation stages and in young seedlings (Figure 5L). It should be mentioned that the PAPST1 gene expression profile generally reflects the pattern of mRNA accumulation (CITATION) and eFP data (http://bar.utoronto.ca/efp_Arabidopsis/cgi-bin/efpWeb.cgi). Accordingly, our analyses further support the assumption that PAPST1 function is not restricted to chloroplasts with fully developed thylakoids but is also required in nondifferentiated or thylakoid-free heterotrophic plastids present in flowers, seeds, and roots. [[FIGURE]] After confirming that TAAC/PAPST1 is capable of PAPS transport, we were interested whether its disruption affects synthesis of sulfated metabolites. We hypothesized that the consequences of a disruption of the transporter should resemble the effects of low PAPS synthesis in apk1 apk2 mutants. For the analysis, we exploited the homozygous T-DNA insertion line SALK_039194, harboring a T-DNA insertion in the first intron, which showed drastically reduced mRNA levels of PAPST1 (see Supplemental Figure 3 online), and the taac knockout line (FLAG 443D03) in the Wassilewskija 4 (Ws-4) background (kindly provided by Cornelia Spetea, University of Gothenburg; CITATION). T-DNA insertions in these homozygous mutant plants named papst1-1 (SALK_039194) and papst1-2 (FLAG 443D03) are depicted in Figure 6A. Under ambient conditions, both mutant lines were slightly retarded in growth compared with corresponding wild-type plants (Col-0 or Ws-4) (CITATION; CITATION) (Figure 6B). This growth phenotype resembles that of plants lacking the plastidic APK isoforms apk1 apk2 and apk1 apk2 apk4 (CITATION, CITATION). [[FIGURE]] For GS analysis, GS were extracted from freeze-dried rosette leaves of 5-week-old plants, and the levels of main aliphatic (3-methylsulfinylpropyl-GS, 4-methylsulfinylbutyl-GS, 5-methylsulfinylpentyl-GS, and 8-methylsulfinyloctyl-GS) and indolic (indol-3-ylmethyl-GS, 4-methoxyindol-3-ylmethyl-GS, and 1-methoxyindol-3-ylmethyl-GS) GS were determined. Both mutant lines exhibited reduced levels of total GS (Figures 7A and 7B). The papst1-1 line contained 50% and papst1-2 only 30% of Met-derived GS compared with corresponding wild-type plants. However, the levels of indolic GS remained almost unaffected. The reduction of GS levels is not as pronounced as in apk1 apk2 mutants, in which both aliphatic and indolic GS are affected and total GS levels reach only ∼20% of wild-type levels (see Supplemental Figures 4A and 4B online; CITATION). Mutants of two other candidate PAPS transporters, At1g12500 and At3g10290, which were rejected based on their expression pattern and absence in chloroplasts (see Supplemental Figure 4C online), indeed did not show any alteration in GS content (see Supplemental Figures 3A and 3B online). These data indicate that (1) PAPST1 connects plastidic PAPS production with cytosolic GS sulfation, (2) reduced PAPS supply from the plastid differentially affects aliphatic and indolic GS biosynthesis, and (3) synthesis of indolic GS is maintained under PAPS limitation. [[FIGURE]] To gain deeper insights into alterations of GS production, we also monitored levels of the desulfo-precursors. In wild-type plants (Col-0 and Ws-4), both aliphatic and indolic desulfo-GS were at the detection limit but showed a dramatic accumulation in both mutants (Figures 7C and 7D). Again, the levels of desulfo-GS in papst1-1 were lower than those in apk1 apk2 while desulfo-GS could not be detected in At1g12500 and At3g10290 mutants (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). Note that the amounts of GS were much higher in Ws-4 than corresponding GS in Col-0, which is in agreement with differences in GS profiles of both ecotypes as reported previously (CITATION). Exemplarily, the composition of aliphatic GS in Ws-4 and Col-0 is known to result from different alleles at the MAM locus determining the production of various aliphatic GS with different carbon chain lengths (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION) Interestingly, papst1-1 and papst1-2 plants accumulated desulfo-precursors of indolic GS despite no differences in the levels of mature metabolites. The observed amount of desulfo-GS precursors in the mutant plants was severalfold higher than would correspond to unused substrates and is thus indicative for stimulated GS biosynthesis. Indeed, similar to apk1 apk2 mutants, quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) analysis revealed that plants lacking PAPST1 exhibited increased expression of genes encoding GS biosynthetic genes, such as CYP79F1, CYP83A1, CYP79B3, CYP83B1, and PAPS-dependent sulfotransferases St5a, St5b, and St5c, when compared with wild-type plants (Figure 7E). Interestingly, disruption of PAPST1 resulted also in a strong increase in mRNA levels of APK1 and APK2 (Figure 7E). In yeast, fungi, and some bacteria, PAPS is an important intermediate in reductive sulfate assimilation. In plants, however, APS represents the activated precursor for reduction by APS reductase to sulfite, which is then used for synthesis of Cys and other sulfur-containing compounds including GSH (Figure 1). Recent analyses demonstrated that reduced plastidic APK activity in apk1 apk2 mutant plants caused a stimulation of sulfate reduction and accumulation of thiols (CITATION). This indicates that phosphorylation of APS redirects activated sulfate from the reductive pathway into sulfation. It can be hypothesized that an impaired PAPS export may lead to accumulation of PAPS in plastids and hence to a reverse redirection of sulfur from sulfations into primary assimilation. Indeed, analyses of thiols in rosette leaves revealed that papst1-1 knockout plants contained elevated levels of Cys, γ-glutamylcysteine, and glutathione (Figure 8). [[FIGURE]] Apart from synthesis of secondary metabolites, sulfation is an important and prevalent posttranslational modification of many secreted proteins and certain membrane proteins (CITATION). Posttranslational Tyr sulfation occurs also in small secreted peptides that act as signal molecules regulating growth, development, and differentiation in multicellular organisms. Tyrosylprotein sulfotransferases mediate the sulfate transfer from PAPS to Tyr residues in propeptides that are finally processed to the active forms, small secreted peptides (CITATION). A prominent example is the disulfated pentapeptide phytosulfokine PSK-α. To analyze whether the expression of PSKs is affected in the papst1-1 mutant, qRT-PCR analyses of genes encoding PSK precursors were performed. As shown in Figure 9, the expression levels of both PSK2 and PSK4 were significantly increased in papst1-1 in comparison to the wild type. This indicates that expression of these genes is stimulated by a reduced availability of plastidic PAPS in the cytosol. Furthermore, both PSK genes were upregulated in the tpst1 mutant lacking tyrosylprotein sulfotransferase activity in the Golgi apparatus and in the apk1 apk2 apk4 mutant (Figure 9). Based on this observation, we assume that the increased PSK2 and PSK4 expression is caused by the reduced accumulation of sulfated peptides rather than the reduced PAPS availability. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Col-0 and Ws-4 plants and T-DNA insertion lines were used in this study. Seeds sown on soil or culture plates were stratified for 2 to 7 d in the dark at 4°C to break seed dormancy. Plants were either grown in the greenhouse with a 16-h/8-h light/dark regime and an average photon flux density of 150 to 200 μmol m−2 s−1 or in a growth cabinet with an 8-h/16-h light/dark cycle and an average photon flux density of 100 µmol m–2 s–1. The temperature was kept at 22°C during the light and 18°C during the dark period. Relative humidity was ∼40%. A minimum of 100 mg rosettes was harvested from 4- to 5-week-old plants and immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen. The plant material was ground in liquid nitrogen for DNA and RNA extraction and thiol measurements or freeze-dried for GS and desulfo-GS analysis. Putative T-DNA insertion mutants in TAAC/PAPST1 of Arabidopsis (Col-0) (SALK_039194, SALK_119779, SALK_010971, and SALK_170308) were obtained from the European Arabidopsis Stock Centre. Only the homozygous SALK_039194 line showed drastically reduced PAPST1 mRNA levels (papst1-1). The papst1-2/taac mutant (Ws-4; (CITATION) was kindly provided by C. Spetea. The apk1 apk2 and apk1 apk2 apk4 mutants were described previously (CITATION, CITATION). All homozygous SALK T-DNA mutants were identified using the primers LBb1 and LBa1 as well as an appropriate gene-specific primer. Transgenic plants generated in this work (ProPAPST1-PAPST1-uidA-2, and ProPAPST1-PAPST1-uidA-3) were selected by germination on half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium containing corresponding antibiotics and were subsequently treated identical to T-DNA insertion and wild-type plants. To analyze papst1-1, total RNA was isolated from leaves of three independent biological and two technical replicates of wild-type and mutant plants using TRIzol reagent (Invitrogen Life Technologies). Aliquots of 2 to 5 µg cDNA were reverse transcribed using SuperScript II Reverse Transcriptase (Invitrogen Life Technologies) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The qRT-PCR was performed with the SYBR-Green master kit (Invitrogen) and a GeneAmp 7300 sequence detection system (Applied Biosystems) as described previously (CITATION). In short, the gene expression was analyzed by real-time qRT-PCR analysis using the fluorescent intercalating dye SYBR-Green in a GeneAmp_5700 sequence detection system (Life Technologies). To amplify gene targets, a standard qRT-PCR protocol was applied: 95°C for 10 min denaturation, 40 cycles of 95°C for 15 s, and 60°C for 1 min annealing and elongation in one step. Relative quantification of expression levels was performed using the comparative Ct (cycle threshold) method, and the calculated relative expression values were normalized to the wild-type expression level (wild type set to 1). Primer sequences for qRT-PCR are listed in Supplemental Table 2 online. To generate GFP fusion constructs, the coding region of PAPST1 including the putative chloroplast targeting sequences was amplified from cDNA and cloned into the pDONOR207 entry vector (Life Technologies). In addition, the full-length genomic fragment of PAPST1 was also amplified and cloned into the pDONOR207 vector (primer sequences for both constructs are listed in Supplemental Table 3 online). The obtained entry clones were recombined with the pGWB5 (Pro35S-PAPST1-GFP) or pGWB4 (ProPAPST1-PAPST1-GFP) binary vectors and used for transient expression assays. Transformation of dark-grown cultured Arabidopsis cells was performed using the supervirulent Agrobacterium tumefaciens strains LBA4404.pBBR1MCS.virGN54D, each containing one of the constructs (Pro35S-PAPST1-GFP-pGWB5 or ProPAPST1-PAPST1-GFP-pGWB4) as described by CITATION. Agrobacterium-mediated transient expression of full-length PAPST1-GFP, TPT-RFP, and TPT-GFP in Arabidopsis leaves was done as reported previously (CITATION), Transfection of Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts was performed as described by CITATION using 20 to 40 µg of plasmid DNA. GFP expression patterns in dark-grown cultured Arabidopsis or green protoplasts were recorded by fluorescence microscopy (Eclipse E800; Nikon) with a GFP (R)-BP filter (excitation 460 to 500 nm; dichroic mirror 505 nm; barrier filter 510 to 560 nm) or by confocal laser scanning microscopy (Zeiss). Results were documented with Discus and Zeiss software. Three different ProPAPST1-uidA constructs were generated for the expression analysis of PAPST1. Two sequences included the first two exons and introns and varied in the proposed promoter lengths upstream of the start codon. ProPAPST1 contained 396 bp, whereas ProPAPST1-2 included a 523-bp fragment upstream of the translation initiation codon. The third construct was a chimeric construct and comprised the full-length promoter (523 bp) until the next gene, the whole genomic DNA sequence and the PAPST1 3′-UTR region. The chimeric ProPAPST1-3 construct was created as follows: Oligonucleotide primers (see Supplemental Table 4 online) were designed to amplify two genomic DNA fragments. The first started 523 bp upstream of the translational initiation site and terminated just before the translational stop site of PAPST1. The second primer combination amplified the 3′-UTR downstream of the terminator. A third set of primers was used to amplify ProPAPST1-3 DNA (combination of both fragments) followed by cloning into pDONR207. All constructs were sequenced to confirm their identity and recombined with the pGWB3i (ProPAPST1-uidA-1, -2, and -3) binary vector. Plants stably transformed with the ProPAPST1-2-uidA and ProPAPST1-3-uidA constructs were used for GUS activity assays. Histochemical detection of GUS activity was performed using 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-glucuronide acid (X-Gluc) (Fermentas) as substrate as previously described (CITATION). Incubation in 80% (v/v) ethanol was performed to remove chlorophyll. Arabidopsis cells were grown in the dark at 22°C with gentle shaking at 160 rpm. The cells were inoculated weekly at a 1:5 dilution into fresh medium (4.3 g/L Murashige and Skoog basal salts [Duchefa], 4 mL/L Gamborg’s vitamin solution [Sigma-Aldrich], 1 mg/L 2,4-D, and 30 g/L Suc, pH 5.8). The hypervirulent Agrobacterium strains LBA4404.pBBR1MCS.virGN54D (CITATION) containing the effector (MYB28 or MYB51), the reporter vectors (ProPAPST1-2 or ProPAPST1-3), and the antisilencing strain 19K (CITATION) were applied for the transfection of Arabidopsis cells. Agrobacteria from fresh plates were grown overnight in YEB medium consisting of 5 g/L beef extract, 1 g/L yeast extract, 5 g/L peptone, 5 g/L sucrose and 0.5 g/L MgCl2 (CITATION) in presence of selecting antibiotics. Cells were harvested by centrifugation, washed in plant cell culture medium, and resuspended in 25% of the initial culture volume. Twenty-five microliters of the 19K strain and 25 μL of the reporter and/or effector strains were added to 3 mL of 1:5 diluted plant cell culture in sterile six-well culture plates (Corning). After 4 to 5 d of coculturing (dark, 22°C, 160 rpm), cells were treated with 100 μL X-Gluc staining solution (50 mM NaH2PO4, pH 7.1, 1 mM X-Gluc) for 1 h to overnight at 37°C, or cells were centrifuged at 12,000g and the pellet was stored at −80°C until GUS activity analysis. For the analysis of sulfated compounds, sulfo-GS and desulfo-GS were extracted from lyophilized rosette leaves using 80% methanol (v/v) containing the internal standard 4-hydroxybenzyl-glucosinolate. The total extracts were loaded to an anion exchange column (DEAE Sephadex A25) for purification. Sulfated GS binds to the DEAE-Sephadex column material, whereas desulfo-GS are not trapped. The extracts with nonbound desulfo-GS (first flow-through) and the following washing step with 80% methanol (v/v) were collected, combined, and analyzed by Ultra Performance Liquid Chromatography. For quantification of bound GS, interacting molecules had to be removed from the column material by overnight incubation with sulfatase (E.C. 3.1.6.1; designated type H-1, from Helix pomatia; Sigma-Aldrich) and elution. After vacuum drying of the eluate and resuspension in a small volume of HPLC grade water, the amount of corresponding GS was determined by Ultra Performance Liquid Chromatography analysis. Both sulfated and nonsulfated GS were quantified by UV absorption at 229 nm relative to the internal standard using response factors generated from pure desulfo-GS standards. Thiols were extracted from Arabidopsis leaves according to CITATION, derivatized with monobromobimane (Calbiochem, EMD Chemicals), and followed by HPLC separation and detection with a fluorescent detector (Dionex). The coding sequence of TAAC/PAPST1 lacking the predicted targeting signal was amplified from Arabidopsis cDNA with specific primers via Pfu-polymerase–mediated PCR. Heterologous protein synthesis based on the isopropyl β-d-thiogalactopyranoside–inducible T7 RNA polymerase pET-vector/Rosetta 2 expression system (Merck Biosciences, Novagen). The primers used for PCR were adapted for cloning into the expression vector pET16b and contained an XhoI (sense primer) and a BamHI (antisense primer) restriction site to allow in-frame insertion with the His tag sequence of the plasmid. After determination of correctness by restriction analysis and sequencing, the PAPST1 expression construct was transformed into the Rosetta 2 cells. E. coli cells were cultured in 50 mL standard Luria-Bertani medium at 37°C under vigorous shaking. Heterologous protein synthesis was induced by addition of 1 mM β-d-thiogalactopyranoside during exponential cell growth (at an OD600 of 0.5). Three hours after induction, cells were concentrated by centrifugation (3000g, 5 min, 4°C), frozen in liquid nitrogen, and stored at −80°C until use. Fast freezing and subsequent thawing of the resuspended cells (in 50 mM Tris, pH 7.0, and 25% (w/v) Suc) led to disruption of cell wall integrity and, thus, in the release of endogenous lysozyme. Incubation for ∼30 min in additional presence of 1.5% Triton X-100, 18.75 mM EDTA, and 1 mM PMSF at 37°C stimulated autolysis and prevented protease activity. Cell disruption was further complemented by sonication of the cells. Generally, enrichment and purification of inclusion bodies as well as reconstitution into lipid/detergent micelles was performed as described by CITATION. In brief, by a first centrifugation step (20,000g, 15 min, 4°C) inclusion bodies were enriched from the homogenate. The inclusion proteins of the pellet were resuspended in 20 mL 1 M urea, 1% Triton X-100, and 0.1% β-mercapto-ethanol, additionally centrifuged (20,000g,15 min, 4°C), and washed again with 20 mM Tris, pH 7.0, 0.5% Triton X-100, 1 mM EDTA, and 0.1% β-mercapto-ethanol and subsequently with 50 mM Tris, pH 7.0, 1 mM EDTA, and 0.1% β-mercapto-ethanol. Inclusion body proteins of the final pellet were solubilized by resuspension in 10 mM Tris, pH 7.0, 0.1 mM EDTA, 1.67% n-lauroylsarcosine, 1 mM DTT, and 0.05% polyethylene glycol 4000 and incubation for 15 min on ice. After threefold dilution with 10 mM Tris, pH 7.0, solubilized proteins were separated from nonsolubilized aggregates by centrifugation (12,000g, 4 min, 4°C). Purity of the inclusion proteins was documented by SDS-PAGE (CITATION). One hundred micrograms of the solubilized proteins was mixed with buffer medium (20 mM HEPES, pH 7.0, and 1 mM PMSF) and with the indicated concentrations of substrates (5 or 20 mM interior counter-exchange substrates). Lipid/detergent micelles (100 mM PIPES, pH 7.0, 25 mg phosphatidylcholine, 16 µg cardiolipin, and 28 µg C10E5) and amberlite XAD-2 (Sigma-Aldrich) beads were prepared and stepwise added to the solubilized inclusion proteins exactly as given by CITATION. After overnight incubation (removal of excess detergent and reconstitution of the PAPST1 protein into the lipid/detergent micelles), external nucleotides were removed from the proteoliposomes by desalting via NAP-5 columns (GE Healthcare). Five hundred microliters of liposomal mixture were eluted from the column with 1 mL of import buffer (50 mM NaCl and 10 mM PIPES, pH 7.0). For transport measurements, 50 μL of the prepared vesicles were mixed with 50 μL of import buffer supplemented with the indicated concentrations of [α-32P]ATP or [α-32P]ADP and incubated at 30°C. Import was allowed for the noted time spans and terminated at the indicated time points by removal of external import medium via ion-exchange chromatography (Dowex 1 × 8 Cl, 200-400 mesh; Sigma-Aldrich). Liposomes were eluted from the chromatography column by successive addition of 3 × 500 μL Tricine (200 mM, pH 7.5), and imported radioactivity was quantified by scintillation counting (Canberra-Packard). The uracil-auxotrophic yeast strain InvSc1 (Life Technologies) was transformed with Gateway pDEST52 (Life Technologies) containing full-length TAAC/PAPST1. For membrane preparation, cells were grown in synthetic complete dropout liquid media lacking uracil, and the expression of pDEST52-TAAC/PAPST1 was induced by the addition of 2% (w/v) galactose. Cells were harvested 8 h after induction and disrupted in a buffer containing 10 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 1 mM EDTA, and 300 μg mL−1 phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, and the membrane fraction containing the expressed PAPST1 protein was prepared by ultracentrifugation. Reconstitution of the transport activity was performed essentially as described by CITATION with slight modifications. Liposomes were prepared from acetone-washed phosphatidylcholine (120 to 130 mg mL−1) by sonication for 2 min on ice in 100 mM potassium phosphate, pH 7.8, 50 mM potassium gluconate, and 10 mM of substrate as indicated. Yeast membranes were solubilized using 1% (w/v) Triton X-100 as detergent and directly reconstituted into the liposomes. Proteoliposomes with reconstituted yeast membranes containing the expressed TAAC/PAPST1 protein were used for transport assays. The assays were initiated by addition of radioactively labeled [35S]PAPS (0.15 mM final concentration) as the external counter-exchange substrate and terminated at different time points by passing the liposomes over a Dowex AG1-X8 anion exchange column. The radioactivity in the eluate was determined by liquid scintillation counting. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries or the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative database under the following accession numbers: TAAC, At5g01500; KVAG1, At1g12500; KVAG2, At3g10290; At4g15870; MYB51, At1g18570; MYB28, At5g61240; MYB4, At4g38620; APK1, At2g14750; APK2, At4g39940; APK3, At3g03900; APK4, At5g67520; CYP79B3, At2g22330; CYP83B1, At4g31500; CYP79F1, At1g16410; CYP83A1, At4g13770; AtSt5a, At1g74100; AtSt5b, At1g74090; AtSt5c, At1g18590; PSK2, At2g22860; PSK4; At3g49780; BAT5, At4g12030; TPT, At5g46110; and uidA, EG11055. Germplasm used the following: papst1-1, SALK_039194 (Col-0); taac/papst1-2, FLAG 443D03 (Ws-4); apk1, SALK_053427 (Col-0); apk2, SALK_093072 (Col-0); kvag1, SALK_034139 (Col-0); and kvag2, SALK_080551 (Col-0). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Quantitative GUS Activity Assay in Transient Cotransformation Experiments Using Regulators of Glucosinolate Biosynthesis and Reporter Constructs Containing Promoters of Putative PAPS Transporters. Supplemental Figure 2. Time-Dependent Uptake of ATP Mediated by Purified Reconstituted TAAC/PAPST1. Supplemental Figure 3. Confirmation of the Knockout Status of Plants Homozygous for the T-DNA Insertion by RT-PCR. Supplemental Figure 4. Glucosinolate and Desulfo-Glucosinolate Levels in papst1-1, apk1 apk2, At1g12500, and At3g10290 Mutants and Subcellular Localization of KVAG1 (At1g12500) and KVAG2 (At3g10290). Supplemental Figure 5. Alignment of TAAC/PAPST1 with Its Closest Homolog At3g51870 and Further Arabidopsis Orthologs of Animal PAPS Transporters (At5g59740, At3g46180, At1g12600, and At4g23010), Which Are Members of the Nucleotide-Sugar Transporter Family. Supplemental Table 1. List of Genes Coexpressed with the Glucosinolate Biosynthetic Gene SUR1 (At2g20610). Supplemental Table 2. Primers for Quantitative Real-Time RT-PCR Analysis. Supplemental Table 3. Sequences of Primers Used for the Cloning of Pro35S-PAPST1 and ProPAPST1-PAPST1 into pDONR207, pGWB4, and pGWB5. Supplemental Table 4. Sequences of Primers Used for Cloning of ProPAPST1-1-uidA, ProPAPST1-2uid-A, and ProPAPST1-3-uidA Promoter Constructs into pDONR207 and pGWB3.
