!~ABS~! Potassium (K+) is an essential macronutrient for plant growth and development. Previous studies have demonstrated that Calcineurin B-Like Protein1 (CBL1) or CBL9 and CBL-Interacting Protein Kinase23 (CIPK23) regulate K+ uptake in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) roots by modulating K+ channel Arabidopsis K+ Transporter1. In this study, we show that the protein kinase CIPK9 interacts with the calcium sensor CBL3 and plays crucial roles in K+ homeostasis under low-K+ stress in Arabidopsis. Arabidopsis wild-type plants showed leaf chlorotic symptoms when grown for 10 d on low-K+ (100 μm) medium. Here, we show that plants lacking CIPK9 displayed a tolerant phenotype to low-K+ stress, which still maintained green leaves when the wild-type plants showed typical K+-deficient symptoms. Overexpressing lines of CIPK9 resulted in a low-K+-sensitive phenotype compared with wild-type plants. Furthermore, CBL2 and CBL3 were identified as upstream regulators of CIPK9. Both CBL2- and CBL3-overexpressing lines displayed similar low-K+-sensitive phenotypes and K+ contents to CIPK9-overexpressing lines. However, only cbl3 mutant plants, but not cbl2 mutant plants, showed the low-K+-tolerant phenotype similar to cipk9 mutants. Taken together, these results demonstrate that CIPK9 and CBL3 work together and function in K+ homeostasis under low-K+ stress in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! It has been reported that the CIPK23, as an important positive regulator of AKT1, is involved in K+ uptake in Arabidopsis roots (CITATION; CITATION). Since CIPK9 is the most similar homolog to CIPK23 in this gene family, it is hypothesized that CIPK9 might be also involved in K+ uptake or K+ homeostasis in Arabidopsis, particularly under LK stress. To test this hypothesis, the transfer DNA (T-DNA) insertion mutants of CIPK9, including SALK_058629 (cipk9-1) and SALK_014699 (cipk9-2), were used to determine their K+-related phenotypes under LK (100 μm K+) conditions. The T-DNA insertion sites of cipk9-1 and cipk9-2 are located in the fourth exon (1,115 bp from ATG) and the 11th intron (2,798 bp from ATG) of the CIPK9 gene, respectively (Fig. 1A). Northern-blot analysis confirmed that the transcription of CIPK9 in these two mutant lines was disrupted (Fig. 1B). The cipk9-1 and cipk9-2 mutants did not show any significant difference from the wild-type plants under normal growth condition (Murashige and Skoog [MS] medium), but they were more tolerant to LK stress compared with wild-type plants. As shown in Figure 1C, when the leaves of cipk9 mutants remained green after growth on LK medium (100 μm K+) for 12 d, the leaves of wild-type plants had become chlorotic (Fig. 1C). [[FIGURE]] To test whether the LK-tolerant phenotype of the cipk9 mutants resulted from loss of function of CIPK9, the complementation lines of cipk9 were constructed. The coding sequence of CIPK9 following its own promoter was transformed into the cipk9-1 mutant plants. Two independent complementation lines of cipk9 (Com-1 and Com-4) were obtained. The transcriptional expression levels of CIPK9 in these two complementation lines were both resumed (Fig. 1D). The phenotype test showed that both these two complementation lines displayed a similar phenotype to wild-type plants when they were grown on LK medium for 12 d (Fig. 1E). These results demonstrated that the LK-tolerant phenotype of cipk9 mutants was caused by the disruption of CIPK9. In addition, the K+ content of various plants (ecotype Columbia [Col], cipk9-1, Com-1, and Com-4) was measured after they were grown on MS or LK medium for 12 d. Under LK conditions, cipk9-1 mutant plants accumulated more K+ in shoot tissues than wild-type plants (Fig. 1F), while the shoot K+ content of the two complementation lines was similar to that of the wild type (Fig. 1F). We observed no difference in K+ content among all these plants grown on MS medium (Fig. 1F). The results of K+ content measurements suggest that the LK-tolerant phenotype of cipk9 mutants may result from the greater K+ accumulation in the shoots of mutants under LK conditions. It has been reported that the activities of CIPKs are regulated by binding one or more CBL proteins (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To identify CBL(s) that interact with CIPK9, yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) two-hybrid assays were applied to analyze the interaction between CIPK9 and each member of CBL family from Arabidopsis. The results demonstrated that seven CBLs, CBL1 to CBL3, CBL5, CBL6, CBL8, and CBL9, displayed interaction with CIPK9 (Fig. 2A). Quantitative β-galactosidase activity assays showed that CBL2 and CBL3 had the strongest interaction with CIPK9 among these seven CBLs (Fig. 2B). [[FIGURE]] To verify the interaction between CIPK9 and CBL2 or CBL3 in planta, protein pull-down assays were performed. In these assays, glutathione S-transferase (GST)-tagged CBL2 or CBL3 was used to pull down interacting proteins from the total proteins that were extracted from cMyc-CIPK9-transformed plants or wild-type plants. The cMyc antibody was used to detect cMyc-CIPK9 fusion proteins via immunoblotting. The results of pull-down assays showed that cMyc-CIPK9 proteins could be pulled down by GST-CBL2 or GST-CBL3 (Fig. 2C, lanes 6 and 4, respectively), indicating the interaction between CIPK9 and CBL2 or CBL3 in planta. The expression profiles of CIPK9, CBL2, and CBL3 were investigated by detecting GUS activity in transgenic Arabidopsis seedlings that carried the GUS gene under the control of their own promoters (pCIPK9::GUS, pCBL2::GUS, and pCBL3::GUS). The GUS staining analysis showed that CIPK9, CBL2, and CBL3 were broadly expressed in whole seedlings at various developmental stages (Fig. 3). In root tissue, GUS activities in all transgenic seedlings were detectable (Fig. 3, B, H, and N), especially abundant in the vascular bundles (Fig. 3, D, J, and P). However, compared with CBL2 (Fig. 3I) and CBL3 (Fig. 3O), the expression of CIPK9 (Fig. 3C) could not be detected in the root tip of 5-d-old seedlings. In shoot tissue, all of them were expressed in whole leaves, particularly in the vascular tissue and hydathode (Fig. 3, E, K, and Q). These results showed that the expression profiles of CIPK9, CBL2, and CBL3 exhibited a remarkable overlap in most of the plant tissue, suggesting that CBL2 and CBL3 may function together with CIPK9 in vivo. [[FIGURE]] To test the subcellular localization of CIPK9, CBL2, and CBL3 in plant cells, the fusion genes CIPK9::EGFP (for enhanced GFP), CBL2::EGFP, and CBL3::EGFP were constructed and introduced into tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) leaves. The leaves expressing EGFP alone were used as controls. The results showed that the CIPK9-EGFP fusion protein displayed nonspecific subcellular localization (Fig. 4A). In addition to observation of the fluorescence of CBL2-EGFP and CBL3-EGFP at the tonoplast (Fig. 4A), the fluorescence of CBL2-EGFP and CBL3-EGFP was also observed to encircle the whole epidermal cell (Fig. 4A), indicating that CBL2-EGFP and CBL3-EGFP might also localize at the PM. To confirm this notion, the PM marker protein KAT2-OFP (for orange/red fluorescent protein) and the tonoplast marker protein TPC1-OFP were applied (CITATION; CITATION). When CBL2-EGFP or CBL3-EGFP was coexpressed with KAT2-OFP or TPC1-OFP in tobacco leaves, the green fluorescence (CBL2-EGFP or CBL3-EGFP) and the red fluorescence (KAT2-OFP or TPC1-OFP) showed an obvious overlap (Fig. 4, B and C). Moreover, the CBL2-EGFP or CBL3-EGFP green fluorescence and the KAT2-OFP or TPC1-OFP red fluorescence were perfectly matched, indicating the colocalization of the two proteins (Fig. 4, B and C). These results demonstrated that CBL2 and CBL3 may locate at both the PM and tonoplast. [[FIGURE]] To investigate the interaction between CIPK9 and CBL2 or CBL3, bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assays in tobacco leaves was performed (CITATION). CIPK9 was cloned into the split-yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) vector pSPYNE(R)173, and CBL2 or CBL3 was constructed into pSPYCE(MR) vector. The paired combinations of YN-CIPK9 and YC-CBL2 (or YC-CBL3) together with PM marker protein KAT2-OFP or the tonoplast marker protein TPC1-OFP were cotransformed into the tobacco leaves. The epidermal cells expressing CBL2/CIPK9 complex or CBL3/CIPK9 complex showed the YFP fluorescence signal at the PM and tonoplast. Moreover, the YFP fluorescence overlapped with the OFP fluorescence (Fig. 5), demonstrating that CIPK9 could interact with CBL2 and CBL3 at the PM and tonoplast in tobacco leaves. [[FIGURE]] The subcellular localization of CIPK9, CBL2, and CBL3 proteins was further confirmed in Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts (CITATION; CITATION). GFP fusion proteins of CBL2, CBL3, and CIPK9 were constructed and introduced into Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts. The results showed that CIPK9-EGFP did not exhibit specific localization. The fluorescence of the CBL2-EGFP or CBL3-EGFP fusion protein was mainly localized at the vacuolar membrane (Fig. 6A). To clarify the membrane identity, the transformed protoplasts were treated with hypoosmotic solution in order to release the vacuoles (CITATION; CITATION). After disruption of the protoplasts expressing EGFP protein, EGFP fluorescence disappeared. CBL2-EGFP or CBL3-EGFP fluorescence was still observed at the tonoplast after the protoplasts were disrupted (Fig. 6B), suggesting the tonoplast localization of CBL2 and CBL3. [[FIGURE]] For the BiFC assays in Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts, CIPK9 was cloned into the split-YFP vector pUC-SPYCE, and CBL2 or CBL3 was fused to pUC-SPYNE. Different combinations were cotransformed into Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts. In the protoplasts expressing CIPK9/CBL2 complex or CIPK9/CBL3 complex, the fluorescence signal was detected at the tonoplast (Fig. 6C). In addition, the vacuoles were released by the hypoosmotic treatment, and the fluorescence was still observed at the tonoplast (Fig. 6D). These results suggested that CIPK9 interacted with CBL2 and CBL3 mainly at the tonoplast in Arabidopsis. To test the hypothesis that CBL2 and/or CBL3 may play roles in plant responses to LK stress by interacting with CIPK9, the phenotypes and K+ contents of CIPK9-, CBL2-, and CBL3-overexpressing plants (CIPK9 OE, CBL2 OE, and CBL3 OE) as well as mutant plants under LK conditions were analyzed. The elevated transcriptional expression of the genes CIPK9 OE, CBL2 OE, and CBL3 OE were verified by northern blot (Fig. 7A). The phenotype test showed that all overexpressing plants exhibited more sensitive phenotypes under LK conditions (i.e. their leaves became chlorotic earlier than wild-type plants; Fig. 7B; Supplemental Figs. S3A and S5A). This sensitive phenotype was dependent on the K+ concentrations but not on NH4+ concentrations in the medium (Supplemental Figs. S1A and S2A). [[FIGURE]] To quantify the LK-sensitive phenotype, the chlorophyll a and b contents of these overexpressing plants and wild-type plants were tested. The results showed that chlorophyll contents of all the overexpressing plants were much lower than those of wild-type plants under LK conditions (Fig. 7C). In addition, the K+ contents in all three overexpressing plants were decreased compared with wild-type plants, especially under LK conditions (Fig. 7D). These results further confirmed the LK-sensitive phenotype of CIPK9-, CBL2-, and CBL3-overexpressing plants. The T-DNA insertion mutants cbl2 (Col background) and cbl3 (Wassilewskija [Ws] background) were tested for their phenotypes under LK treatment. Interestingly, cbl2 mutant plants exhibited a different phenotype from cbl3 mutant plants under LK treatment, although CBL2 and CBL3 proteins showed high similarity in their amino acid sequences and both interacted with CIPK9. The cbl3 mutant plants showed a similar LK-tolerant phenotype to cipk9 mutants, whose shoots remained green after growth on LK medium for 12 d (Fig. 8B), whereas the cbl2 mutant plants and wild-type plants showed similar chlorotic symptoms (Fig. 8B; Supplemental Figs. S3B and S5B). Moreover, this tolerant phenotype of cbl3 and cipk9 mutants was also dependent on the K+ concentrations but not on NH4+ concentrations in the medium (Supplemental Figs. S1B and S2B). [[FIGURE]] The results of chlorophyll content measurements showed that the chlorophyll a contents in cbl3 and cipk9-1 mutant plants were much higher than that in wild-type plants under LK conditions (Fig. 8C), which was consistent with their LK-tolerant phenotype. The K+ contents in shoots of cipk9 and cbl3 mutants were much higher than those of wild-type and cbl2 mutant plants after growth on LK medium for 12 d (Fig. 8D). All these results derived from phenotype tests and K+ content measurements indicated that CBL3 and CIPK9 might work together in vivo and play crucial roles in K+ homeostasis in Arabidopsis under LK conditions. Although CBL2 can physically interact with CIPK9, it may not functionally regulate CIPK9 activity. Furthermore, it is notable that the K+ content in cbl3 roots was much higher than that of any other plants, which suggested that CBL3 might also regulate other components involved in K+ uptake in Arabidopsis roots at the same time.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) ecotypes Col and Ws were used as wild-type plants in this study. The T-DNA insertion mutant lines of CIPK9 and CBL2 were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. The cipk9 homozygous mutants (cipk9-1 and cipk9-2) were identified from SALK_058629 and SALK_014699 by the T-DNA border primer and CIPK9 gene-specific primers. The cbl2 mutant was identified from SALK_151426 by the T-DNA border primer and CBL2 gene-specific primers. The cbl3 mutant was identified from FLAG_294H06 by the T-DNA border primer and CBL3 gene-specific primers. The overexpression of CIPK9 was constructed by fusing the CIPK9 coding sequence into pBIB vector between the enzyme sites XbaI and SacI. For CBL2 and CBL3 overexpression, the coding sequences of these two genes were cloned into the pBIB vector by using the enzyme sites SmaI and SacI, respectively. The plasmids were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 and transformed into Arabidopsis wild-type (Col) plants. For the complementation lines of cipk9, the CIPK9 coding sequence driven by its own promoter was cloned into pCAMBIA1300 vector. The construct was introduced into A. tumefaciens GV3101 and transformed into cipk9-1 mutant plants. For all experiments, T3 transgenic plants were used. The CIPK9 promoter fragment (1,748 bp) was amplified by using forward primer 5′-ATAAGCTTTACTAAAACGGCAAATACTAAAC-3′ and reverse primer 5′-ACGGATCCTTTCTTTTTCCGATTAAGAAA-3′ from genomic DNA and then cloned into the vector pCAMBIA1391 in front of the GUS coding sequence by using HindIII and BamHI sites. The CBL2 promoter fragment (1,546 bp) was amplified by using forward primer 5′-TTGAATTCACCCGGTTACTGGATTTGTTC-3′ and reverse primer 5′-GGGGATCCGATATATCTTAAGCAGCAAA-3′ and cloned into the vector pCAMBIA1381 between EcoRI and BamHI sites. The CBL3 promoter fragment (1,706 bp) was amplified by using forward primer 5′-AAGGATCCAAAATCAAAACAATACATGAGTCA-3′ and reverse primer 5′-AACTGCAGGATATATCTTGTAAATCAAAACTCTCC-3′ and cloned into pCAMBIA1381 vector by using the BamHI and PstI sites. All these constructs were introduced into Arabidopsis wild-type (Col) plants by using A. tumefaciens-mediated transformation. GUS activity analysis of the T3 transgenic lines at different developmental stages was performed as described (CITATION). The seeds were surface sterilized and germinated on MS or LK medium at 22°C under constant illumination (60 μmol m−2 s−1) for 10 or 12 d. The normal MS medium contained 0.8% (w/v) agar (Baoshi) and 3% (w/v) Suc. For LK treatment, the LK medium was modified from MS medium. Briefly, 2.99 mm CaCl2 and 1.25 mm KH2PO4 were replaced by 2.99 mm Ca(NO3)2 and 1.25 mm NH4H2PO4, 18.79 mm KNO3 and 20.6 mm NH4NO3 were removed, and 1.5 mm MgSO4 was unchanged. For making the LK medium, the actual and final K+ concentration in LK agar medium (0.8%, w/v) was adjusted to 100 ± 10 μm by adding KCl. The final K+ concentration in the LK medium for each experiment was measured and confirmed to be 100 ± 10 μm by using atomic absorption spectrophotometry. After growth on MS or LK medium for 10 or 12 d, shoots and roots of the seedlings were harvested for K+ content measurements. First, the plant samples were rinsed thoroughly with distilled water three times and dried at 80°C for 24 h. After weighing, the samples were treated in a muffle furnace at 300°C for 1 h, 575°C for 5 h, and dissolved in 0.1 n HCl. Then, the K+ concentration of the samples was measured by atomic absorption spectrophotometry (Hitachi Z5000). Total RNA of the plants was extracted from 10-d-old seedlings by using Trizol reagent (Invitrogen). For RNA gel-blot analysis, total RNA (30 mg for each lane) was separated by electrophoresis and then blotted onto a nylon membrane. The blot was hybridized with [α-32P]dCTP-labeled gene-specific DNA probes for CIPK9, CBL2, or CBL3. Hybridization signals were imaged by using a phosphor imager. The primers for probe amplifying were as follows: for CIPK9, forward primer 5′-AAATGGAAGAAACCGCAAAGC-3′ and reverse primer 5′-TTTCAAACCGAGTTTGAGGA-3′; for CBL2, forward primer 5′-ATGTCGCAGTGCGTTGACG-3′ and reverse primer 5′-TCAGGTATCTTCAACCTGAGAAT-3′; for CBL3, forward primer 5′-ATGTCGCAGTGCATAGACG-3′ and reverse primer 5′-TCAGGTATCTTCCACCTGCG-3′. The coding sequence of CIPK9 was cloned into the DNA-binding domain vector (pAS2) by using the sites NdeI and XhoI. Each of the CBLs was cloned into the activation domain vector (pACT2). For yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) two-hybrid assays, CIPK9-BD and each CBL-AD construct were cotransformed into the yeast strain AH109 by using the lithium acetate method (according to the TRANFOR protocol). To select the positive clones, the transformants were selected on synthetic dropout nutrient medium (SD)/−Leu−Trp medium and then streaked on selective medium (SD/−Leu−Trp−His−adenine). The β-galactosidase expression was analyzed by filter-lift assays as described (CITATION). For quantitative assays, the transformants were grown at 30°C to midlog phase (optical density at 600 nm = 0.5–0.8) in SD/−Leu−Trp liquid medium. The β-galactosidase activity was measured as optical density at 420 nm using o-nitrophenyl β-d-galactopyranoside as the substrate according to CITATION and expressed in units. For the subcellular localization analysis, the fusion genes CIPK9::EGFP, CBL2::EGFP, and CBL3::EGFP were cloned into pBIB vector by using XbaI and SacI sites. For the generation of BiFC constructs, the coding regions of CIPK9 and CBL3 were cloned into pSPYNE(R)173 and pSPYCE(MR), respectively, by using SpeI and SalI sites. CBL2 was cloned into pSPYCE(MR) by SpeI and SmaI sites. All the plasmids were introduced into A. tumefaciens GV3101 and coinfiltrated at optical density at 600 nm = 0.6 to 0.7. After infiltration for 2 to 4 d, the fluorescence of GFP, YFP, or red fluorescent protein in transformed tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) leaves was observed. The images were acquired with a Nikon TE-2000 confocal microscope. Fluorescence intensity scan was performed using the quantification tool of the NIS-Elements Imaging software of Nikon ECLIPSE Ti. For the generation of GFP and BiFC constructs expressed in Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts, the coding region of CIPK9 was cloned via XbaI and BamHI into pUC-EGFP and pUC-SPYCE. The coding region of CBL2 was cloned into pUC-EGFP and pUC-SPYNE by XbaI and SmaI, while the XbaI and SpeI sites were used for CBL3. Mesophyll protoplasts were isolated from leaves of about 6-week-old wild-type Arabidopsis (Col). These plasmids were purified by a Qiagen kit and transiently transformed into mesophyll protoplasts using a polyethylene glycol-mediated method according to CITATION. To release the vacuoles, the protoplasts were treated in the low osmotic lysis buffer (10 mm EGTA, 250 mm sorbitol, 10 mm HEPES, pH 8.0, adjusted with KOH). Fluorescence of GFP, YFP, and red fluorescent protein was observed. The images were acquired with a LSM510 META confocal microscope after incubation at 23°C for 16 to 24 h. The coding sequences of CBL2 and CBL3 were cloned into the pGEX-4T-2 vector by using BamHI and XhoI sites. The GST fusion constructs (GST-CBL2 and GST-CBL3) were transformed into Escherichia coli strain BL21 (DE3). The recombinant proteins were purified by glutathione Sepharose (Amersham Pharmacia) according to the manufacturer’s manual. Total proteins were extracted from 2-week-old Arabidopsis seedlings of wild-type and cMyc-CIPK9 transgenic plants by lysis buffer (50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 100 mm NaCl, 0.2 mm CaCl2, and 0.05% Tween 20) with 1 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride and 1 mm dithiothreitol. For pull-down assays, 200 μg of total proteins was mixed with GST-CBL2, GST-CBL3, or GST protein and then immobilized on glutathione Sepharose beads. After incubation at 4°C for 6 h, the beads were washed six times by lysis buffer. Then, the proteins were eluted by elution buffer and analyzed by western blot using anti-cMyc monoclonal antibody. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative database under accession numbers At1g01140 (CIPK9), At5g55990 (CBL2), and At4g26570 (CBL2).  The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Phenotype test of various plants under different NH4+ concentrations. Supplemental Figure S2. Phenotype test of various plants under different K+ concentrations. Supplemental Figure S3. Phenotype test of various plants under LK conditions on horizontal plates. Supplemental Figure S4. Northern-blot analysis of CIPK9 in response to LK stress. Supplemental Figure S5. Phenotype test of various plants on modified LK medium. Supplemental Figure S6. The root/shoot K+ ratio of various plants on MS or LK medium.
