!~ABS~! Hydrogen sulfide (H2S) is a newly‐discovered signaling molecule in plants and has caused increasing attention in recent years, but its function in stomatal movement is unclear. In plants, H2S is synthesized via cysteine degradation catalyzed by D‐/L‐cysteine desulfhydrase (D‐/L‐CDes). AtD‐/L‐CDes::GUS transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. plants were generated and used to investigate gene expression patterns, and results showed that AtD‐/L‐CDes can be expressed in guard cells. We also determined the subcellular localization of AtD‐/L‐CDes using transgenic plants of AtD‐/L‐CDes::GFP, and the results showed that AtD‐CDes and AtL‐CDes are located in the chloroplast and in the cytoplasm, respectively. The transcript levels of AtD‐CDes and AtL‐CDes were affected by the chemicals that cause stomatal closure. Among these factors, ACC, a precursor of ethylene, has the most significant effect, which indicates that the H2S generated from D‐/L‐CDes may play an important role in ethylene‐induced stomatal closure. Meanwhile, H2S synthetic inhibitors significantly inhibited ethylene‐induced stomatal closure in Arabidopsis. Ethylene treatment caused an increase of H2S production and of AtD‐/L‐CDes activity in Arabidopsis leaves. AtD‐/L‐CDes over‐expressing plants exhibited enhanced induction of stomatal closure compared to the wild‐type after ethylene treatment; however, the effect was not observed in the Atd‐cdes and Atl‐cdes mutants. In conclusion, our results suggest that the D‐/L‐CDes‐generated H2S is involved in the regulation of ethylene‐induced stomatal closure in Arabidopsis thaliana.
!~RES~! To study the gene expression of AtD‐CDes and AtL‐CDes and explore its potential physiological role(s) in plants, the promoter activity of the genes was analyzed byβ‐Glucuronidase (GUS) reporter analysis in transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing the AtD‐/L‐CDes::GUS constructs. 697 bp promoter regions including the 1‐UTR of AtD‐CDes, and 848 bp promoter regions including the 36‐UTR of AtL‐CDes, were amplified and cloned into the GUS gene upstream of the pCAMBIA1391 binary vectors, respectively. 7‐d‐old seedlings from AtD‐/L‐CDes::GUS transgenic Arabidopsis plants were analyzed for GUS activity by histochemical analysis. The results showed that AtD‐CDes::GUS was highly expressed in leaves (Figure 1A), especially in the leaf vein, mesophyll cells and guard cells (Figure 1B, C). AtD‐CDes‐related GUS staining was also found in the root vascular tissue and the pericycle (Figure 1D). Moreover, AtL‐CDes‐related GUS staining was observed in cotyledonary tips (Figure 1E), guard cells (Figure 1F, G) and columella initials (Figure 1H). No staining was detected in the root tip of AtD‐CDes::GUS or AtL‐CDes::GUS transgenic lines (Figure 1D, H).  [[FIGURE]] Histochemical GUS analysis showed that both AtD‐CDes and AtL‐CDes are distributed in guard cells (Figure 1C, G). In order to know the subcellular localization of AtD‐CDes and AtL‐CDes in Arabidopsis guard cells, we constructed the stable expression vectors Modified‐p‐Super1300‐AtD‐CDes and Modified‐p‐Super1300‐AtL‐CDes. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants were generated by the floral dip method, and the fluorescent fusion proteins AtD‐/L‐CDes‐GFP was examined using confocal laser microscopy (Zeiss LSM510). The results showed that AtD‐CDes and AtL‐CDes were present in guard cells, which is consistent with the histochemical GUS analysis. AtD‐CDes are localized in the chloroplast of guard cells (Figure 2C), and AtL‐CDes is localized in the cytoplasm (Figure 2E) and in other leaf cells (not shown). In contrast, in the control of the GFP transgenic line, we could only observe a slight background fluorescence from the cell wall of guard cells (Figure 2A).  [[FIGURE]] Expression of two Arabidopsis genes, AtD‐CDes and AtL‐CDes, which play key roles in the production of H2S, was detected in guard cells, and the confocal image of AtD‐CDes and AtL‐CDes showed that these two kinds of proteins are also located in the guard cell. To confirm the involvement of AtD‐/L‐CDes in regulating stomatal movement, we analyzed the effects of ethylene and other plant hormones that induce stomatal closure on AtD‐CDes and AtL‐CDes gene expression. Quantitative RT‐PCR analysis showed that 10 μM of 1‐aminocyclopropane‐1‐carboxylic acid (ACC), a precursor of ethylene, enhanced the transcription of AtD‐CDes and AtL‐CDes, and 50 μM ABA, 1 mM salicylic acid (SA), and 10 μM jasmonic acid (JA) also had the same effects. A maximum gene expression level of AtD‐CDes was reached after treatment with ACC for 120 min, ABA for 60 min, SA for 60 min, and JA for 5 min (Figure 3A) (P < 0.05). AtL‐CDes gene expression was not increased as significantly as that of AtD‐CDes by the ACC treatment; however, the transcription of AtL‐CDes was enhanced by ABA treatment for 15 min, SA for 30 min, and JA for 5 min, respectively (Figure 3B) (P < 0.05). It was observed that the transcript levels decreased from the peak over time (Figure 3), suggesting that ethylene, as well as other plant hormones which could induce stomatal closure, might also enhance the gene expression of AtD‐CDes and AtL‐CDes. Among these plant hormones, ethylene had the most significant effect on the transcription of AtD‐CDes (Figure 3A). Additionally, after treatment with all these phytohormones, only ethylene was shown to have a long‐term effect on the relative expression of AtL‐CDes.  [[FIGURE]] To further understand the role of AtD‐/L‐CDes in regulating stomatal movement, quantitative RT‐PCR analysis was performed to examine the effect of environmental factors which could cause stomatal closure, such as drought (10% PEG), high salinity (150 mM NaCl), and osmotic stresses (100 mM mannitol) on the transcription levels of AtD‐CDes and AtL‐CDes. The results showed that the maximum expression level of AtD‐CDes was reached after drought stress for 5 min, salinity for 30 min, and osmotic stress for 60 min, respectively (Figure 4A) (P < 0.05). The AtL‐CDes appeared after 30 min of drought treatment, and 15 min of high salinity or osmotic stress (Figure 4B) (P < 0.05). These results indicate that different stresses which can cause stomatal closure, as well as ethylene and other plant hormones, could enhance the expression of the AtD‐/L‐CDes genes, which play key roles in H2S production.  [[FIGURE]] In plants, D‐/L‐cysteine are resources for generating H2S when catalyzed by D‐/L‐CDes. Arabidopsis leaves treated with 0.4 mM aminooxy acetic acid (AOA), 0.4 mM hydroxylamine (NH2OH) or 0.2 mM potassium pyruvate (C3H3KO3) + 0.2 mM ammonia (NH3), were analyzed. The inhibitors of D‐/L‐CDes alone showed no significant effect on H2S production and D‐/L‐CDes activity, while treatment with 10 μM ACC caused H2S production and D‐/L‐CDes activity to decrease (Figure 5) (P < 0.05). These results support the notion that D‐/L‐CDes is involved in ethylene‐induced H2S synthesis.  [[FIGURE]] In order to understand whether H2S is involved in ethylene‐induced stomatal closure, AOA, NH2OH or C3H3KO3+NH3 (the inhibitors of D‐/L‐CDes which were described earlier in this paper), were used with or without ethylene treatment to analyze their effects on stomatal movement. In this study, no significant effect on stomatal aperture was observed under treatments of AOA, NH2OH or C3H3KO3+NH3 alone, but treatments that included inhibitors of D‐/L‐CDes and 10 μM ACC significantly inhibited ethylene‐induced stomatal closure (Figure 6) (P < 0.05). This observation suggests that the inhibiting effect of stomatal closure induced by ethylene is due to decrease ethylene‐induced H2S production. These data provide evidence showing that H2S is involved in ethylene‐induced stomatal closure in Arabidopsis.  [[FIGURE]] To further examine the function of H2S in ethylene‐induced stomatal closure in Arabidopsis, we constructed the overexpression vectors p‐Super1300‐AtD‐CDes and p‐Super1300‐AtL‐CDes, in which cDNAs of AtD‐CDes and AtL‐CDes were cloned under the 35S promoter. The resulting constructs were confirmed by sequencing, and transferred into Arabidopsis using the flower dip method as described by Clough and Bent (1988). Transgenic lines were selected based on the resistance of transformed plants to kanamycin and rifampicin, and two independent lines from the T3 generation, OED‐Cdes, and OEL‐Cdes, were obtained and used in our experiments. By using three primers (LB+RP for homozygous lines which were insertions in both chromosomes and LP+RP for wild type which were no insertion, provided by T‐DNA Primer Design, http://signal.salk.edu/tdnaprimers.2.html) for SALK lines, the T‐DNA insertion mutants were identified, and the obtained homozygotes were used in this study.  As shown in Figure 7A, without application of 10 μM ACC, the H2S content in the T‐DNA insertion mutants, overexpression plants, and the wild‐type Arabidopsis were all at similar levels. A significant effect of ethylene on H2S production was not observed in the T‐DNA insertion mutants; however, the overexpression plants were more sensitive to the ethylene treatment (P < 0.05). Similar results are shown in Figure 7B. There was no significant difference among Atd‐cdes, Atl‐cdes, OED‐Cdes, OEL‐Cdes and the wild‐type in stomatal aperture under the MES treatment. However, compared to the wild‐type and the T‐DNA insertion mutants, stomatal aperture of the transgenic lines overexpressing AtD‐CDes and AtL‐CDes were more sensitive to ethylene (P < 0.05).  [[FIGURE]] These results indicated that both AtD‐CDes and AtL‐CDes positively regulate ethylene‐induced stomatal closure and H2S accumulation. 
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. ecotype Columbia (Col‐0) was used as wild‐type throughout this study. Seeds of the Atd‐cdes T‐DNA insertion line (CS853264), and Atl‐cdes T‐DNA insertion line (SALK_027027) were obtained from The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR). Seeds were surface sterilized with 10% NaClO and rinsed five times with sterilized water. Sterilized seeds were sown on 0.8% agar plates containing Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium and 1.5% sucrose. Plates were stored at 4 °C for 48 h in darkness, and then germinated with roots hanging down from the roof of petri dishes in a tissue culture room at 22 °C under a 16 h light/8 h dark photoperiod. After one w, seedlings were transferred to soil and placed in a growth chamber at 22 °C with humidity of about 70% under a 16 h light/8 h dark photoperiod. Young, fully‐expanded rosette leaves of 4–5 w old plants were used in the experiments.  Stomatal bioassays were performed as described by Liu et al. (2009). Parts of abaxial epidermises were peeled off with sharp forceps from the rosette leaves of 4–5 w old plants and incubated in opening buffer (50 mM KCl, 0.1 mM CaCl2 and 10 mM MES, pH 6.1) under light conditions (light intensity 200 μM/m2/s) for 2 h to open the stomata. For various treatments, epidermal peels with pre‐opened stomata were transferred to the same base buffer supplemented with different chemicals for a further 30 min, and then transferred into a drop of floating solution on a glass slide and immediately processed for microscopic analysis of stomatal apertures.  The width of the stomatal aperture was measured under a research microscope equipped with an ocular micrometer. Apertures of ten randomly‐selected stomata were measured in each of the three different epidermal strips in each treatment. Each measurement was repeated in three independent experiments. Standard errors were calculated relative to the number of epidermal peel experiments.  To generate AtD‐/L‐CDes::GUS transgenic plants, the respective promoter fragments were cloned and fused to the GUS gene in the pCAMBIA‐1391 vector. The promoter fragments contained 79 bp of the upstream region of the AtD‐CDes gene, and no upstream region was contained in the AtL‐CDes promoter respectively. Promoter fragments were amplified by PCR using the following primers: for the AtD‐CDes::GUS construct, forward primer 5′‐CGGGATCCGAAGATGTGAGTGTATCCATGA TAT‐3′, PstI site underlined, and reverse primer 5′‐AA CTGCAGTGCTTCTTTCTTCTTCAGTTGTT‐3′, BamHI site underlined; AtL‐CDes::GUS construct, forward primer 5′‐CG GGATCCGTAGAGTTGCTTAAAGAGAAGAAATC‐3′, PstI site underlined and reverse primer 5′‐ AACTGCAGAGGTGA ATATGTTACGGTCACTG‐3′, BamHI site underlined. The amplified fragments were sequence‐verified and cloned into the pCAMBIA‐1391 vector using the restriction enzyme sites PstI and BamHI (TaKaRa, Japan) to generate the AtD‐/L‐CDes::GUS constructs. The constructs AtD‐CDes::GUS and AtL‐CDes::GUS were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101. Arabidopsis ecotype Col‐0 plants were transformed by the floral dip‐method (Clough and Bent 1998), and transformants were selected on MS agar media containing 25 μg/mL hygromycin (Hyg). T1 seeds obtained from self‐fertilization of primary transformants were surface‐sterilized, grown on hygromycin plates, and used to generate homozygous T3 lines that stained for GUS activity according to Lehman et al. (1996).  The histochemical localization of GUS staining in transformed plant organs was assayed according to the methods described by Jefferson (1987). Samples consisted of 7‐d‐old seedlings, incubated with GUS staining solution (0.4 mg/mL X‐Glu (5‐bromo‐4‐chloro‐3‐indolyl β‐D‐glucuronide), 10 mM phosphate buffer, pH 7.0, 0.2 mM potassium ferricyanide, 0.2 mM potassium ferrocyanide, 0.1% (v/v) Triton X‐100, 4 mM EDTA) in the dark at 37 °C overnight. After incubation, stained plants were cleared with 75% ethanol to remove chlorophyll. Samples were examined for blue staining assessment with a Nikon Inverted Microscope (Ti‐S), and were photographed.  Full‐length AtD‐CDes cDNA (At1G48420) and AtL‐CDes cDNA (At5G65720) were obtained from Tair (http://www.arabidopsis.org/index.jsp). For the transformation, DNA fragments containing the entire coding region were amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with the oligonucleotide primers (AtD‐CDes forward primer, 5′‐GCTCTAGAATGAGAGGACGAAGCTT GAC‐3′, restriction site XbaI underlined and AtD‐CDes reverse primer, 5′‐GGGTACCCTAGAACATTTTCCCAACACC‐3′, restriction site KpnI underlined; AtL‐CDes forward primer, 5′‐GC TCTAGAATGGCGTCTAAGGTAATCTCTG‐3′, restriction site XbaI underlined, AtL‐CDes reverse primer, 5′‐GGGGTACC TCAGTGTTGAGACCATTGAAT‐3′, restriction site KpnI underlined). Then, the cDNA fragments were inserted into the p‐Super1300 vector between restriction sites XbaI and KpnI (TaKaRa, Japan). The fidelity of the constructs was confirmed by restriction digestion and sequence analysis, and the confirmed constructs were named p‐Super1300‐AtL‐CDes and p‐Super1300‐AtD‐CDes, respectively. Subsequently, the two constructs were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 and selected based on their resistance to kanamycin and rifampicin. The vacuum infiltration method (Clough and Bent 1998) was used to transform the Arabidopsis plants. Several transgenic lines were obtained, and two independent lines from the T3 generation were used in this study.  Total RNA was extracted using the TRIzol reagent (Invitrogen, USA) following the manufacturer's instructions. For real‐time PCR analysis, first‐strand cDNA was synthesized from 3 μg of total RNA using M‐MLV reverse transcriptase (Promega, USA). After synthesis of the first strand cDNA using oligo d(T)18 primer (TaKaRa, Japan), real‐time PCR was performed using the MyiQ Real‐Time PCR Detection System (Bio‐Rad, USA) with the presence of SYBR green I (BioWhittaker Molecular Applications) in the amplification mixture according to the manufacturer's protocols. Specific primer sets were designed for AtD‐CDes (forward primer, 5′‐ATAGAAGCAGCAAGGGAA‐3′, reverse primer, 5′‐TGAGGCTCTTACTAATGCT‐3′); AtL‐CDes (forward primer, 5′‐TGTATGTGAGGAGGAGGC‐3′, reverse primer, 5′‐GTTTCATACTGATGCTGCTC‐3′) and Atactin (forward primer, 5′‐GGTAACATTGTGCTCAGTGGTGG‐3′, reverse primer, 5′‐CACGACCTTAATCTTCATGCTGC‐3′). The amplification of the actin transcript served as the internal standard, and the data were analyzed with MyiQ software (Bio‐Rad, USA). The relative transcript levels of AtD‐CDes and AtL‐CDes were calculated using the 2−ΔΔCT method (Livak and Schmittgen 2001) and standardized with the Atactin transcript level.  Measurement of H2S emissions was performed as described by Sekiya et al. (1982) with minor modifications. After treatment with 10 μM 1‐aminocyclopropane‐1‐carboxylic acid (ACC) for 0, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8 hours, 0.1 g of plant material was ground to a fine powder with liquid nitrogen, and the soluble proteins were extracted by adding 0.9 mL 20 mM Tris‐HCl, pH 8.0. After centrifugation, the protein content of the supernatant was adjusted to 100 μg/mL to obtain equal amounts of protein in each assay sample. Then, H2S was absorbed by the zinc acetate trap located in the bottom of the test tube. After 30 min at 37 °C, 100 μL of 30 mM FeCl3 dissolved in 1.2 N HCl was added to the trap. 100 μL 20 mM N, N‐dimethyl‐phenylenediamine dihydrochloride dissolved in 7.2 N HCl was then injected into the trap. The amount of H2S in the zinc acetate trap was determined colorimetrically at 670 nm.  The activity of D‐/L‐CDes was measured according to Riemenschneide et al. (2005). After treatment with 10 μM ACC for 4 hours, 0.1 g of plant material was ground to a fine powder with liquid nitrogen, and the soluble proteins were extracted by adding 0.9 mL 20 mM Tris‐HCl, pH 8.0. After centrifugation, the protein content of the supernatant was adjusted to 100 μg/mL to obtain equal amounts of protein in each assay sample.  D‐CDes activity was detected by monitoring the release of H2S from D‐cysteine in the presence of DTT. The assay contained in a total volume of 1 mL: 0.8 mM D‐cysteine, 2.5 mM DTT, 100 mM Tris‐HCl, pH 8.0, and 10 μg protein solution. The reaction was initiated by the addition of D‐cysteine; after incubation for 15 min at 37 °C, the reaction was terminated by adding 100 μL 30 mM FeCl3 dissolved in 1.2 N HCl and 100 μL 20 mM N,N‐dimethyl‐phenylenediamine dihydrochloride dissolved in 7.2 N HCl. The formation of methylene blue was determined at 670 nm.  L‐CDes activity was determined in the same way with the following modifications: L‐cysteine instead of D‐cysteine was used; the pH of the Tris‐HCl buffer was 9.0.  To construct a fusion between AtD‐/L‐CDes and GFP, the AtD‐CDes and AtL‐CDes CDS were cloned via XbaI and KpnI digestion from pMD18‐T‐AtD‐CDes and pMD18‐T‐AtL‐CDes into a Modified‐p‐Super1300 vector. In this vector, AtD‐/L‐CDes were placed under the control of CaMV (cauliflower mosaic virus) 35S promoter. The primers used to amplify AtD‐/L‐CDes were as follows: for AtD‐CDes (forward primer, 5′‐GC TCTAGAATGGATAAGAAGAAGAATTCGTT‐3′ restriction site XbaI underlined, reverse primer, 5′‐GGGGTACCGAACATTT TCCCAACACCAT‐3′ restriction site KpnI underlined) and AtL‐CDes (forward primer, 5′‐GCTCTAGAATGGCGTC TAAGGTAATCTC‐3′ restriction site XbaI underlined, reverse primer, 5′‐GGGGTACCGTGTTGAGACCATTGAAT‐3′ restriction site KpnI underlined). All PCR fragments and plasmids were verified by sequencing and restriction digestion. The new constructions are named Modified‐p‐Super1300‐AtD‐CDes and Modified‐p‐Super1300‐AtL‐CDes. We then transformed the constructs into Arabidopsis wild‐type plants by floral dipping using the Agrobacterium stain GV3101, and the method described earlier.  To determine subcellular localization of AtD‐CDes and AtL‐CDes, epidermal strips were prepared from 4–5 w old AtD‐/L‐CDes‐transgenic lines expressing the AtD‐/L‐CDes‐GFP construct. Confocal laser microscopy was carried out to assess AtD‐/L‐CDes‐GFP localization using a Zeiss LSM510 microscope system. Using the 488‐nm argon laser with a minimum power setting to excite GFP, the light signal from the samples was captured in complete darkness using a 100× Olympus oil immersion objective, and emission wavelength was measured at a 505‐ to 550‐nm bandpass. Autofluorescence of chloroplasts was used for a comparison. Transmission images were collected in parallel, and were analyzed using the software LSM 5 Image Browser (Zeiss LSM Image Browser 4.2.0.121) (http://corporate.zeiss.com/country‐page/en_de/home.html).  The DPS data processing system was used to carry out the significance analysis of the data. Analysis of variance was conducted between different treatments. A P value of < 0.05 was considered statistically significant.  (Co‐Editor: Hongwei Guo)
