!~ABS~! In eukaryotic cells, protein trafficking plays an essential role in biogenesis of proteins that belong to the endomembrane compartments. In this process, an important step is the sorting of organellar proteins depending on their final destinations. For vacuolar proteins, vacuolar sorting receptors (VSRs) and receptor homology-transmembrane-RING H2 domain proteins (RMRs) are thought to be responsible. Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) contains seven VSRs. Among them, VSR1, VSR3, and VSR4 are involved in sorting storage proteins targeted to the protein storage vacuole (PSV) in seeds. However, the identity of VSRs for soluble proteins of the lytic vacuole in vegetative cells remains controversial. Here, we provide evidence that VSR1, VSR3, and VSR4 are involved in sorting soluble lytic vacuolar and PSV proteins in vegetative cells. In protoplasts from leaf tissues of vsr1vsr3 and vsr1vsr4 but not vsr5vsr6, and rmr1rmr2 and rmr3rmr4 double mutants, soluble lytic vacuolar (Arabidopsis aleurain-like protein:green fluorescent protein [GFP] and carboxypeptidase Y:GFP and PSV (phaseolin) proteins, but not the vacuolar membrane protein Arabidopsis βFructosidase4:GFP, exhibited defects in their trafficking; they accumulated to the endoplasmic reticulum with an increased secretion into medium. The trafficking defects in vsr1vsr4 protoplasts were rescued by VSR1 or VSR4 but not VSR5 or AtRMR1. Furthermore, of the luminal domain swapping mutants between VSR1 and VSR5, the mutant with the luminal domain of VSR1, but not that of VSR5, rescued the trafficking defects of Arabidopsis aleurain-like protein:GFP and phaseolin in vsr1vsr4 protoplasts. Based on these results, we propose that VSR1, VSR3, and VSR4, but not other VSRs, are involved in sorting soluble lytic vacuolar and PSV proteins for their trafficking to the vacuoles in vegetative cells.
!~RES~! In previous studies, the role of VSRs in vacuolar trafficking was examined by employing an approach of overexpression of wild-type or mutant forms of VSRs in wild-type protoplasts (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Based on the expression data in Genevestigator (CITATION), Arabidopsis VSR1, VSR3, VSR4, and VSR7 are expressed in multiple tissues and show relatively high expression in mesophyll cell protoplast (Supplemental Figure S1). Thus, to gain further insight into the role of VSRs in vegetative tissues, we used the loss-of-function mutant of VSR1, VSR3, and VSR4 and examined the trafficking of vacuolar luminal proteins, AALP:GFP and CPY:GFP, in protoplasts from leaf tissues of vsr single mutant plants. A previous study showed that the vsr1 mutant plants exhibit a defect in protein trafficking to the PSV in seed cells (CITATION). AALP:GFP is a C-terminal GFP fusion of AALP (for Arabidopsis aleurain-like protein) that has both an N-terminal ssVSS and ctVSS (CITATION). In protoplasts, AALP:GFP is transported to the central vacuole where it is processed proteolytically into a smaller form (CITATION). CPY:GFP is a C-terminal GFP fusion protein of AtCPY (for Arabidopsis carboxypeptidase Y) that has an N-terminal vacuolar sorting signal and is targeted to the lumen of the LV (CITATION). Protoplasts from wild-type and vsr single mutant plants were transformed with AALP:GFP or CPY:GFP, and protein extracts from transformed protoplasts were analyzed by western blotting using anti-GFP antibody. When the vacuolar trafficking is inhibited, vacuolar proteins are secreted into the incubation medium (CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, proteins from protoplast incubation medium were included in the analysis. At 24 h after transformation, AALP:GFP was processed to a smaller form that accumulated to 48% to 49% of total proteins in both Columbia-0 (Col-0) and Wassilewskija wild-type protoplasts. In vsr1, vsr3, and vsr4 mutant protoplasts, although the degree of AALP:GFP secretion varies depending on these vsr mutants, a small proportion (3%–9%) of AALP:GFP was secreted into the incubation medium and the amount of the processed form was slightly reduced (Fig. 1A). CPY:GFP, another luminal vacuolar protein, also produced similar results with AALP:GFP: the amount of the secreted protein was increased to 5% in these vsr single mutant protoplasts and concomitantly the amount of the processed form was slightly reduced (Fig. 1B), indicating that vsr1, vsr3, and vsr4 mutants exhibit a minor defect in protein trafficking to the LV. In a previous study (CITATION), both AALP (AtAleurain) and AtCPY were not secreted into the apoplasts in vsr1 and vsr4 mutants. One possible explanation for the discrepancy is that both AALP:GFP and AtCPY:GFP were expressed at higher levels in protoplasts than in leaf tissues and the reduced capacity of the vacuolar trafficking pathway resulted from the mutation cannot handle the higher levels of these proteins for vacuolar trafficking. [[FIGURE]] VSR1 is involved in sorting of PSV proteins (CITATION). Accordingly, we examined the trafficking of phaseolin, a storage protein of Phaseolus vulgaris (common bean) that contains a ctVSS, in vsr1, vsr3, and vsr4 mutant protoplasts. Phaseolin was introduced into protoplasts from leaf tissues of wild-type and vsr single mutant plants, and protein extracts from protoplasts and incubation medium were analyzed by western blotting using antiphaseolin antibody. When phaseolin is targeted to the vacuole in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) leaf tissues or Arabidopsis protoplasts derived from leaf tissues, it is processed proteolytically into multiple smaller protein species (CITATION; CITATION, CITATION). As reported previously, approximately 50% of total expressed phaseolin was processed into smaller protein species in wild-type protoplasts. In vsr1, vsr3, and vsr4 mutant protoplasts, the amount of processed form was slightly reduced and a small proportion of phaseolin (6%–11%) was secreted into the incubation medium (Fig. 1C), indicating that the vsr1, vsr3, and vsr4 mutants have a minor defect in trafficking of phaseolin in leaf cells. These results are consistent with the notion that other members of the VSR family may participate in the trafficking of soluble cargo in vegetative tissues (CITATION). To confirm these results at the cellular level, we examined localization of these cargo proteins in vsr1 and vsr4 mutants. AALP:GFP or phaseolin were transformed into wild-type, vsr1, or vsr4 protoplasts, and localization of these cargo proteins was examined directly or by immunohistochemistry using antiphaseolin antibody. Similar to the wild-type protoplasts, the majority of vsr1 and vsr4 mutant protoplasts transformed with AALP:GFP produced vacuolar patterns (Fig. 1D). In vsr1 and vsr4 mutant protoplasts, phaseolin localized primarily to a structure with a diameter of 4 μm (Fig. 1E), as reported previously (CITATION). These results confirm that although a certain portion of these cargo proteins is secreted into the medium, vsr1, vsr3, and vsr4 mutant plants do not have any substantial effect on the localization pattern. The results shown in Figure 1 prompted us to test whether VSRs have a redundant function in vegetative tissues. Therefore, vacuolar trafficking of AALP:GFP and CPY:GFP was examined in protoplasts from vsr1vsr3, vsr1vsr4, and vsr5vsr6 double mutants. AALP:GFP or CPY:GFP was introduced into wild-type or double mutant protoplasts, and the vacuolar trafficking of these proteins was examined by western blotting using anti-GFP antibody. The amount of AALP:GFP secreted into the medium in vsr1vsr3 and vsr1vsr4 protoplasts was 15% and 29% of total expressed proteins, respectively; concomitantly, the processed form of AALP:GFP decreased to 38% and 29% of total expressed proteins in vsr1vsr3 and vsr1vsr4 protoplasts, respectively (Fig. 2A). These results indicate that the double mutant had much more severe defects in protein trafficking to the LV. In contrast, in vsr5vsr6 mutant protoplasts AALP:GFP was not secreted into the medium and the amount of the processed form was comparable with that of wild-type protoplasts, indicating that vacuolar trafficking of AALP:GFP is not affected in vsr5vsr6 double mutants. CPY:GFP produced similar results to those of AALP:GFP. In vsr1vsr3 and vsr1vsr4 mutant protoplasts, the amount of CPY:GFP that was secreted was 5% and 29% of total expressed proteins, respectively, and the processed forms of CPY:GFP were reduced to 39% and 19% of total proteins, respectively, whereas the vsr5vsr6 mutant did not show any defect in vacuolar trafficking of CPY:GFP (Fig. 2B). Furthermore, a large proportion of AtCPY was secreted into the incubation medium when transiently expressed in vsr1vsr4 mutant protoplasts, but not in wild-type protoplasts (Supplemental Figure S2). These results indicate that VSR1, VSR3, and VSR4, but not VSR5 and VSR6, are involved in vacuolar trafficking of ssVSS-containing proteins in vegetative tissues, and they are functionally redundant in protein trafficking to the LVs. [[FIGURE]] We also examined trafficking of phaseolin in these double mutants. Phaseolin was introduced into protoplasts from leaf tissues of these double-mutant plants, and its trafficking was examined by western-blot analysis using antiphaseolin antibody. Similar to the trafficking patterns observed with ssVSS-containing vacuolar proteins, trafficking of phaseolin was defective in both vsr1vsr3 and vsr1vsr4, but not vsr5vsr6, mutants. In vsr1vsr3 and vsr1vsr4 mutant protoplasts, 28% and 42% of phaseolin was secreted into the incubation medium, respectively, whereas in vsr5vsr6 mutant protoplasts, trafficking of phaseolin was as efficient as that observed in wild-type protoplasts (Fig. 2C). These results confirm that VSR1, VSR3, and VSR4, but not VSR5 and VSR6, are involved in the trafficking of phaseolin. Together, these results suggest that VSR1, VSR3, and VSR4 are redundantly involved in trafficking of both LV and PSV proteins in leaf cells. As a control, we examined whether these vsr mutants have any effect on the secretory pathway. Protoplasts from wild-type, vsr1vsr3, vsr1vsr4, and vsr5vsr6 mutant plants were transformed with invertase:GFP to express a chimeric protein of secretory invertase and GFP (CITATION), and its trafficking was examined by western-blot analysis. Figure 2D shows that invertase:GFP was efficiently secreted in vsr double mutants including vsr5vsr6, confirming that these VSRs are specific to trafficking of proteins to the LV and PSV. To obtain independent evidence for the role of VSR1 and VSR4, localization of AALP:GFP was examined in the vsr1vsr4 mutant. AALP:GFP and ER-localized chaperone binding protein:monomeric red fluorescent protein (BiP:mRFP) were introduced into vsr1vsr4 mutant protoplasts, and localization of these proteins was examined under a fluorescence microscope. In vsr1vsr4 mutant protoplasts, the majority of protoplasts produced the vacuolar pattern and also network pattern, which colocalized with an ER marker protein, BiP:mRFP (Fig. 3A), indicating that trafficking of AALP:GFP is inhibited and some proportion of AALP:GFP localizes to the ER. Next, we examined the localization of phaseolin in vsr1vsr4 double mutant plants. vsr1vsr4 double mutant protoplasts were cotransformed with phaseolin and BiP:mRFP, and the localization of phaseolin was examined by immunostaining with antiphaseolin antibody. The majority of transformed protoplasts displayed the network pattern instead of the speckle pattern. The network pattern of phaseolin overlapped with that of BiP:mRFP at the ER (Fig. 3B), indicating that phaseolin localizes primarily to the ER. These data confirm that VSR1 and VSR4 function redundantly in trafficking of both AALP:GFP and phaseolin to the LV and the subcellular structure that gives the speckle pattern, respectively. [[FIGURE]] Next, we tested whether VSRs are also involved in trafficking of membrane proteins destined for the tonoplasts of the LV. We examined trafficking of AtβFruct4:GFP, a chimeric protein of AtβFructosidase4 and GFP in vsr double mutants (CITATION). It has been proposed that AtβFruct4:GFP is delivered and incorporated into the tonoplast first, and then subsequently released into the lumen of the LV by proteolytic processing (CITATION). As reported previously, in wild-type protoplasts AtβFruct4:GFP was efficiently targeted to the central vacuole when examined by western-blot analysis using anti-GFP antibody. In addition, in vsr double-mutant protoplasts AtβFruct4:GFP was targeted to the LV as efficiently as it was in wild-type protoplasts (Fig. 4A), indicating that VSR1 and VSR4 are not involved in trafficking of membrane proteins to the LV. To confirm this, we examined the localization of AtβFruct4:GFP in vsr1vsr4 mutant protoplasts. The majority of transformed vsr1vsr4 mutant protoplasts gave green fluorescent signals in the central vacuole (Fig. 4B), confirming that it is targeted to the LV. These results suggest that VSRs are not involved in the vacuolar trafficking of membrane proteins. [[FIGURE]] To further test the role of VSRs in vacuolar trafficking and their functional redundancy, we examined whether VSR1 can complement the defect in vacuolar trafficking of AALP:GFP in protoplasts from vsr1vsr4 double mutant plants. Varying amounts of the epitope hemagglutinin (HA)-tagged VSR1 (VSR1:HA) plasmid were introduced into vsr1vsr4 mutant protoplasts together with AALP:GFP, and the vacuolar trafficking of AALP:GFP was analyzed by western blotting using anti-GFP antibody. The C-terminal HA epitope-tagged VSR1 (VSR1:HA) colocalizes primarily with GFP:VSR1 at the PVC, indicating that the HA epitope tag at the C terminus does not interfere with its proper localization of VSRs in protoplasts (CITATION). The amount of secreted AALP:GFP was gradually decreased with increasing amounts of VSR1:HA (Fig. 5A), indicating that transiently expressed VSR1:HA rescues the defect in the vacuolar trafficking of AALP:GFP in the vsr1vsr4 double mutant background. Similarly, transiently expressed VSR1:HA reduced the amounts of secreted CPY:GFP and phaseolin in a dose-dependent manner (Figure 5B; Supplemental Figure S3A). [[FIGURE]] In a reciprocal experiment, we examined whether VSR4 can complement the vacuolar trafficking defect of vsr1vsr4 double mutant plants. Varying amounts of the VSR4:HA plasmid were introduced into vsr1vsr4 mutant protoplasts together with AALP:GFP, CPY:GFP, or phaseolin, and their trafficking efficiency was determined by western-blot analysis using anti-GFP or antiphaseolin antibody. At 5 μg of VSR4:HA, AALP:GFP was no longer secreted into the medium (Fig. 5C). CPY:GFP and phaseolin showed similar recovery in their vacuolar trafficking from coexpression of VSR4:HA, confirming that VSR4 complements the defect in trafficking of vacuolar and PSV proteins in vsr1vsr4 double mutant plants (Figure 5D; Supplemental Figure S3B). These results strongly suggest that VSR1 and VSR4 are functionally redundant in trafficking of both ssVSS- and ctVSS-containing cargo proteins in vegetative tissues. Among the double mutants, vsr5vsr6 protoplasts did not have any noticeable defect in the trafficking of vacuolar and PSV proteins. This raised the possibility that VSR5 and VSR6 are not involved in the trafficking of these proteins. To test this possibility, we examined whether VSR5 can complement the defect in the trafficking of vacuolar and PSV proteins in protoplasts from vsr1vsr4 double-mutant plants. AALP:GFP, CPY:GFP, or phaseolin were introduced into vsr1vsr4 protoplasts together with increasing amounts of VSR5:HA, and trafficking of these proteins was determined by western-blot analysis. VSR5:HA did not complement the defect in vsr1vsr4 mutants (Fig. 6, A and B; Supplemental Figure S4). In fact, overexpression of VSR5:HA aggravated the defect in the trafficking of these proteins and caused further secretion into the medium in a dose-dependent manner, indicating that VSR5 cannot complement the defect in trafficking of these proteins in the vsr1vsr4 mutant. However, it is intriguing that high levels of VSR5 aggravate the trafficking defects in the vsr1vsr4 mutant. One possible explanation is that VSR5 may compete with VSR1, VSR3, and VSR4 for the molecular machineries for receptor recycling. The sorting receptors recycle back to the TGN via the retromer complex (CITATION). In Arabidopsis, VSP35, a component of the retromer complex, interacts with VSR and lack of VPS35 inhibits the efficient trafficking of storage proteins to the PSV (CITATION; CITATION). Consistent with this notion, the amino acid sequence of the C-terminal domain of VSR5 and VSR6 is highly similar to that of VSR1, VSR3, and VSR4. [[FIGURE]] The luminal proteinase-associated (PA) domain contains a binding site for the vacuolar targeting signal (CITATION). The seven AtVSRs are divided into two groups based on the sequence homology of the PA domains (CITATION; CITATION): one group with VSR1, VSR2, VSR3, and VSR4 and the other group with VSR5, VSR6, and VSR7. Therefore, it is possible that the specificity of VSRs in vacuolar trafficking may be determined by the luminal domain. To test this idea, we generated domain-swapping mutants between VSR1 and VSR5 by exchanging their luminal domains, denoted as V1N-V5C:HA and V5N-V1C:HA (Fig. 7A). These constructs were examined for complementation of the defect in protein trafficking in the vsr1vsr4 mutant. V1N-V5C:HA or V5NV1C:HA were cotransformed into protoplasts from vsr1vsr4 mutants with AALP:GFP, and vacuolar trafficking of AALP:GFP was examined by western-blot analysis using anti-GFP antibody. V1NV5C:HA, but not V5N-V1C:HA, efficiently complemented the defect in trafficking of AALP:GFP in the vsr1vsr4 double mutant protoplasts (Fig. 7, B and C). Similar results were obtained with the PSV protein phaseolin (Supplemental Figure S5, A and B). These results strongly suggest that the cargo specificity is determined by the luminal domain of VSRs, and the luminal domains of VSR1, VSR3, and VSR4 encode different cargo specificity from that of VSR5 and VSR6. [[FIGURE]] An alternative possibility is that these two groups of VSRs may localize to different organelles. However, previous studies show that all seven VSRs localize to the PVC (CITATION; CITATION). To rule out this possibility, we examined the localization of VSR1 and VSR5 in protoplasts. VSR5:HA was cotransformed into wild-type protoplasts together with GFP:VSR1 or GFP:SYP21, and the localization of these proteins was examined by immunostaining using anti-HA antibody. VSR5:HA exhibited a punctate staining pattern that closely overlapped with that of both GFP:AtVSR1 and GFP:SYP21 (Fig. 7, D and E). This result further supports the idea that the failure to complement the defect of protein trafficking in the vsr1vsr4 double mutants by VSR5 likely results from the difference in cargo specificity in the PA domains between VSR5 and VSR1 or VSR4. Previous studies suggested that RMR1 is a cargo receptor for storage proteins (CITATION; CITATION). To gain insight into the role of RMRs in the vacuolar trafficking in vegetative tissues, we examined the trafficking of soluble cargoes in protoplasts from rmr1rmr2 and rmr3rmr4 double mutants. AALP:GFP, CPY:GFP, or phaseolin were introduced into wild-type or mutant protoplasts, and the vacuolar trafficking of these proteins was examined by western blotting using anti-GFP or antiphaseolin antibody. In rmr1rmr2 and rmr3rmr4 mutant protoplasts, trafficking of AALP:GFP or CPY:GFP was as efficient as that observed in wild-type protoplasts. These proteins were not secreted into the medium and the amount of the processed form was comparable with that of wild-type protoplasts (Fig. 8, A and B). Similar results were obtained with the ctVSS-containing cargo protein phaseolin. rmr1rmr2 and rmr3rmr4 mutant did not exhibit any defect in the trafficking of phaseolin (Fig. 8C). Thus, these results from the rmr mutants did not agree with those of previous studies where overexpression of a dominant negative form of AtRMR1 was used (CITATION). One possible explanation is that seven AtRMR isoforms are functionally redundant and mutations in two out of seven may not cause any significant defect in vacuolar trafficking in leaf protoplasts. [[FIGURE]] It has been shown that both RMR1 and VSR4 interact with ctVSS-containing peptide (CITATION; CITATION). Thus, it is possible that RMR1 and VSRs may cooperate in the trafficking of phaseolin. To test this idea, we examined whether AtRMR1 can complement the vacuolar trafficking defect of the vsr1vsr4 double mutant. AtRMR1:HA was introduced into vsr1vsr4 mutant protoplasts with AALP:GFP or phaseolin, and the vacuolar trafficking of these proteins was examined by western blotting using anti-GFP or antiphaseolin antibody. As shown in Figure 8, D and E, expression of AtRMR1:HA did not rescue the defects in trafficking of AALP:GFP and phaseolin in the vsr1vsr4 mutant, indicating that AtRMR does not complement the vsr mutations in vacuolar trafficking. It is possible that AtRMRs and AtVSRs may play a role at different stages of vacuolar trafficking in leaf cells.
!~MM~! vsr and rmr mutants have been described previously (CITATION). The vsr1 mutant is in the Wassilewskija background and the other mutants are in the Col-0 background. Plants were grown on B5 plates in a culture room under a 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle. Leaf tissues of 2- to 3-week-old plants were used to isolate protoplasts. AtCPY (At3g10410) was isolated by PCR from an Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) complementary DNA (cDNA) library using specific primers CPY-F and CPY-R. The PCR products was digested with XbaI/BamHI and ligated to a pUC-based expression vector. To generate the AtCPY:GFP fusion construct, the termination codon of AtCPY was deleted by PCR using CPY-F and CPY-G-R primers, and fused to the N terminus of the GFP-coding region. For the construction of AtVSR4:HA, full-length AtVSR4 cDNA obtained from the RIKEN Arabidopsis cDNA collection (CITATION; CITATION) was amplified by PCR using VSR4-F and VSR5-R primers. AtVSR5 (At2g34940) was isolated by PCR from an Arabidopsis cDNA library using specific primers VSR5-F and VSR5-R. The PCR products were digested with XbaI/BamHI and ligated to a pUC-based expression vector containing the 35S cauliflower mosaic virus promoter, HA epitope, and nopaline synthase terminator. VSR1 and VSR5 domain-swap mutants were generated using a two-step PCR strategy. The luminal domain of VSR1 was amplified using the VSR1-F and V15-R primers. Likewise, the C-terminal domain of VSR5 was amplified using primer HA-R and V15-F containing an extended region complementary to the 3′ end of the VSR1 fragment. These two fragments were the templates for a second round of PCR using VSR1-F and HA-R primers, resulting in V1N-V5C-containing nucleotides 1–1,689 of VSR1 and nucleotides 1,687–1,857 of VSR5. V5N-V1C was produced using the same approach. V5N-V1C consisted of nucleotides 1–1,686 of VSR5 and nucleotides 1,690–1,872 of VSR1. The PCR products were digested with XbaI/XhoI and ligated to a pUC-based expression vector. The primer sequences used to prepare the constructs are shown in Supplemental Table S1. The sequence of all constructs was confirmed by DNA sequencing. The plasmids used in protoplast transformation were purified using Qiagen columns according to the manufacturer’s protocol. Arabidopsis protoplasts were prepared from leaf tissues, and purified DNA plasmids were introduced into protoplasts by polyethylene glycol-mediated transformation (CITATION). Expression of these constructs was monitored at various time points after transformation. Images were obtained using a fluorescence microscope (Axioplan 2; Carl Zeiss) equipped with a 40×/0.75 objective (Plan-NEOFLUAR) and a cooled charge-coupled device camera (Senicam; PCO Imaging). The filter sets used were XF116 (exciter, 474AF20; dichroic, 500DRLP; emitter, 510AF23) and XF33/E (exciter, 535DF35; dichroic, 570DRLP; emitter, 605DF50; Omega, Inc.) for GFP/fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC) and RFP/tetramethyl rhodamine isothiocyanate (TRITC), respectively. For the laser-scanning confocal microscopy, transformed protoplasts were observed with a Zeiss LSM 510 META laser-scanning confocal microscope (Carl Zeiss). Excitation/emission wavelengths were 488/505 to 530 nm for GFP, and 543/560 to 615 nm for RFP. Captured images were processed using Adobe Photoshop CS5. Transformed protoplasts were used for immunohistochemistry. Transformed protoplasts were allowed to adhere to poly-l-Lys-coated slides (Sigma) for 30 min, fixed in W6 buffer (154 mm NaCl, 125 mm CaCl2, 2.5 mm maltose, 5 mm KCl, 10 mm HEPES, pH 7.2) containing 4% paraformaldehyde for 60 min, and permeabilized in TSW buffer (10 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.4, 0.9% NaCl, 0.25% gelatin, 0.02% SDS, 0.1% Triton X-100) for 10 min. Fixed protoplasts were subsequently incubated overnight at 4°C with anti-HA (Roche) or antiphaseolin (CITATION) antibodies in the same buffer. After washing three times with TSW buffer, protoplasts were incubated for 1 h at room temperature with TRITC-conjugated goat anti-rat, anti-mouse IgG or FITC-conjugated goat anti-rabbit IgG secondary antibodies (Zymed Laboratories). After another three washes in TSW buffer, protoplasts were mounted in Mowiol (Hoechst), containing 2.5% 1,4-diazobicyclo-[2.2.2]-octane (Sigma). Transformed protoplasts were harvested at 24 h after transformation and resuspended in lysis buffer (25 mm HEPES-NaOH, pH 7.4, 150 mm NaCl, 3 mm EDTA, 2 mm EGTA, and complete protease inhibitor cocktail [Roche]). Protoplasts were lysed by brief sonication and subjected to centrifugation at 10,000g at 4°C for 10 min to remove debris. To prepare proteins present in the medium, cold TCA (100 μL) was added to the medium (1 mL) and protein aggregates were precipitated by centrifugation at 10,000g at 4°C for 15 min. After washing with acetone, protein pellet was dissolved in a solution of 0.1 n NaOH. Proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE and transferred to polyvinylidene fluoride membranes using blotting apparatuses (Hoefer). For the western blotting, monoclonal anti-GFP (Clontech), antiphaseolin (CITATION), monoclonal antiactin (MP Biomedicals), and anti-AtCPY antibody (CITATION) were used. Protein blots were developed using western-blot detection solution (Supex) and visualized using the LAS3000 image capture system (FUJIFILM). The immunoblots were quantified by measuring the intensity of the protein bands with LAS3000 software. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Genbank/EMBL data libraries under the following accession numbers: vsr4, N594467; vsr5, N544991; vsr6, N873290; rmr1, N100448; rmr2, N870412; rmr3, N552180; and rmr4, N24974. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Expression analysis of AtVSRs in Arabidopsis. Supplemental Figure S2. Vacuolar trafficking of AtCPY is inhibited in the vsr1vsr4 double mutant. Supplemental Figure S3. Ectopic expression of AtVSR1 or AtVSR4 rescues the vacuolar trafficking of AtCPY:GFP in vsr1vsr4 double mutant protoplasts. Supplemental Figure S4. Expression of AtVSR5:HA increases the secretion of AtCPY:GFP in vsr1vsr4 double mutant protoplasts. Supplemental Figure S5. Effect of AtV1N-V5C:HA and AtV5N-V1C:HA on the vacuolar trafficking of phaseolin. Supplemental Table S1. Sequences of primers used in this study.
