!~ABS~! Arabidopsis thaliana Cell Growth Defect factor 1 (Cdf1) has been implicated in promotion of proapoptotic Bax-like cell death via the induction of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Here we report a conserved function of a chloroplast-targeting Cdf-related gene Responsive to Senescence (CRS) using CRS overexpression and loss of function in plants as well as CRS heterologous expression in yeast. CRS expression was strongly induced in senescent leaves, suggesting its main functions during plant senescence. CRS expression in yeast mitochondria increased the ROS level and led to cell death in a manner similar to Cdf1. In whole plants, overexpression of CRS caused the loss of chlorophylls (Chls) and the rapid onset of leaf senescence, while the lack of CRS led to the delay of leaf senescence in a loss-of-function mutant, crs. The higher and lower accumulation of H2O2 was correlated with early and late senescence in CRS-overexpressing and crs mutant plants, respectively. Furthermore, expression of senescence-related marker genes and metacaspase genes was induced in CRS-overexpressing plants in response to dark. Our findings suggest that CRS plays a key role in the leaf senescence process that accompanies H2O2 accumulation resulting in cell death promotion.
!~RES~! Cdf1 induces apoptosis-like cell death in yeast that resembles the lethality induced by Bax in mammals (CITATION). We have examined one of the Cdf-related genes, CRS (At2g20920), that has not yet been functionally characterized. CRS consisted of three exons and two introns, with its open reading frame (ORF) encoding a protein of 287 amino acids for a calculated molecular mass of 30.5 kDa. Comparison of the amino acid sequences of three Cdf-related proteins revealed that the CRS protein has a 22.4% sequence identity to Cdf1 (CITATION). The SOSUI program predicted that CRS contains four transmembrane domains in the C-terminus, and the TargetP program (available at: http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP) predicted that it is a chloroplast protein. To verify the predicted subcellular localization of CRS in cells, we constructed transgenic plants expressing the YFP (yellow fluorescent protein) gene fused to the N-terminus of CRS under the control of the Cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter (Pro35S:YFP-CRS) and observed YFP fluorescence in the protoplasts isolated. Yellow fluorescence was detected in the chloroplasts of transgenic plants with the Pro35S:YFP-CRS construct; in contrast, in the transgenic control expressing YFP only (Pro35S:YFP), yellow fluorescence was uniformly distributed throughout the cell (Fig. 1A). To confirm further the subcellular localization of CRS in chloroplasts, we introduced both YFP- and green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged CRS (Pro35S:YFP-CRS and Pro35S:CRS-GFP) into tobacco leaves via Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated infiltration and detected strong expression of both fluorescences in chloroplasts (Supplementary Fig. S1). These results demonstrate that CRS is a chloroplast-localized protein.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Publicly available gene expression data were analyzed as the first step to identify putative spatiotemporal regulation of CRS expression. An analysis of microarray data available at Genevestigator (CITATION) revealed that CRS is dominantly expressed in senescent leaves, with other parts of adult plants expressing only very basal levels of CRS. The analysis revealed that CRS is one of the most abundantly transcribed genes during the senescence process. To investigate the expression patterns of the CRS gene in whole plants, we fused 1.7 kb of the CRS promoter region to the β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene in pBI101 and transformed the construct into Arabidopsis. The CRS promoter was found to be a strong driver of GUS expression in senescent leaves of T3 homozygous plants in the vegetative stage (Fig. 1B, C). In contrast, GUS was not detected in young buds of Arabidopsis inflorescences, but its expression did gradually increase with increasing maturation of the flowers and was maximally expressed in the oldest open flowers (Fig. 1D). The reporter gene was also well expressed in the sepal and petal, but relatively more highly expressed in the anthers (Fig. 1E). Within a senescing leaf, GUS was strongly expressed in the yellow tip region but less in the green basal region (Fig. 1F, G). All these findings indicate that CRS has a major role in both senescing vegetative tissues and mature reproductive organs. To verify if CRS has the same function as Cdf1 in cell death (CITATION), we performed a yeast cell growth inhibition assay for CRS. Unlike Cdf1, CRS failed to inhibit cell growth in yeast (data not shown). This may reflect the fact that yeasts lack chloroplasts where CRS appears to function in plant cells. To overcome the difference in subcellular organelles and test its putative function in cell death, we fused the yeast mitochondrial signal peptide sequence (CITATION) to the N-terminus of CRS (named mtCRS) and repeated the spot assay. As shown in Fig. 2A, yeast growth was inhibited by mtCRS. After 12 h of yeast culture in SD-galactose medium, approximately 13% and 16% of mtCRS- and Cdf1-expressing cells, respectively, were stained with trypan blue, a vital stain taken up by dead cells; in contrast, only 4% of vector-transformed negative control cells were stained with the dye (Fig. 2B, C). These results indicated that CRS can cause cell death in a manner similar to Cdf1.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Cdf1 is known to induce cell death by increasing ROS generation. We thus assessed the ability of CRS to induce ROS accumulation. The intracellular generation of ROS in yeast cells can be detected using a non-fluorescent dye 2′,7′-dichlorofluorescein-diacetate (DCFH-DA), which is taken up by the cells and oxidized by ROS to the fluorescent compound 2′,7′-dichlorofluorescein (DCF), thereby providing a quantitative measure of ROS formation. After 8 h of yeast culture in SD-galactose medium, fluorescence was detected in approximately 12% and 16% of mtCRS- and Cdf1-expressing cells, respectively; in contrast, almost no fluorescence was detected in cells of the vector-transformed negative control (Fig. 2D, E). These results implicate that CRS can induce cell death through ROS accumulation as Cdf1 can. CRS expression in leaves at different stages of development was determined by reverse transcription–PCR (RT–PCR). Rosette leaves were collected at three different stages of senescence, namely non-senescence (NS; wholly green), early senescence (ES; <25% leaf yellowing) and late senescence (LS; >50% leaf yellowing), as categorized by CITATION. NS leaves had a basal CRS expression level, while LS leaves showed a significantly higher expression level of CRS (Fig. 3A). The relative transcript level of SAG12, a marker gene of senescence (CITATION, CITATION), was also significantly increased in LS leaves. Within a senescent leaf, CRS expression was strongest in the tip area, which is the most senescent region of the leaf (Fig. 3B). These results, together with publicly available information above, confirm that the expression of CRS is closely associated with the progression of leaf senescence.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] RT–PCR analyses using total RNAs isolated from different organs of 5-week-old Arabidopsis wild-type plants revealed that, under normal growing conditions, cauline leaves and rosette leaves showed the highest level of CRS expression, but flowers and stems showed a relatively lower level of CRS expression, with the root showing the lowest level of all plant organs analyzed (Fig. 4A). To understand the biological function of CRS in whole plant senescence, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing CRS under the control of the 35S promoter and subsequently selected two T3 homozygous lines (Pro35S:CRS 6_3 and Pro35S:CRS 8_10) showing a much higher expression of CRS than the wild type (Fig. 4B). In addition, a CRS loss-of-function mutant line, GK-376A06, was obtained from the GABI-Kat FST population (CITATION). Subsequent analyses verified the insertion of the T-DNA into the genomic DNA sequence of the second exon of the CRS gene and confirmed that the expression of CRS was completely abolished in the homozygous crs mutant (Fig. 4C).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Under normal growth conditions (16 h light and 8 h dark at 22°C), almost all young leaves of 8-week-old Pro35S:CRS plants turned yellow, while those of the wild type and crs mutant lines retained their green coloration (Fig. 4D). These results, together with the published study of CITATION demonstrating that Cdf1 shows enhanced expression in senescent leaves, led us to presume that Cdf1 and CRS have a functional redundancy during leaf senescence. Senescence is known to be induced in dark-treated leaves (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). Thus, to determine the extent of senescence in each plant type, we observed the responses of wild-type, Pro35S:CRS and crs mutant plants to dark treatment. Wild-type plants exhibited a visible yellowing phenotype after 4 d in the dark, with significant leaf senescence by 7 d of dark treatment. In contrast, no significant visible change was observed in crs leaves after 7 d of dark treatment. The two independent Pro35S:CRS lines showed a more rapidly yellowing phenotype than the wild type after 4 d in the dark (Fig. 5A).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The response to the dark treatment was monitored by measuring the Chl content. The Chl content of leaves on plants grown in the dark changed significantly in comparison with those grown under normal light conditions (Fig. 5B). Seven days after dark treatment, the Chl contents of wild-type, Pro35S:CRS 8_10, Pro35S:CRS 6_3 and crs leaves were 19.9 ± 0.8, 9.20 ± 3.5, 19.4 ± 0.5 and 45.3 ± 2.2%, respectively, when compared with those of leaves grown under normal light conditions. These results support the notion that CRS modulates the leaf senescence process including Chl degradation. To determine whether or not the accumulation of H2O2, a proposed signal molecule of senescence in Arabidopsis (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION), differed in the leaves of the Pro35S:CRS and crs mutant plants, we examined the H2O2 contents of detached third or fourth rosette leaves from 4-week-old plants exposed to dark treatment. The endogenous H2O2 level was monitored using 3,3′-diaminobenzidine (DAB), a histochemical reagent that is polymerized in the presence of H2O2 to form reddish-brown precipitates (CITATION), and a hydrogen peroxide/peroxidase assay (CITATION). Prior to the dark treatment, DAB staining (Fig. 5C, upper) and the hydroxide/peroxidase assay (Fig. 5D, 0 day) revealed that the rosette leaves of both the crs mutant and wild-type plants had almost the same basal level of H2O2, while those of Pro35S:CRS plants contained a higher basal level of H2O2. The relative levels of H2O2 in wild-type, Pro35S:CRS and crs rosette leaves prior to dark treatment were about 2,063 ± 65, 2,273 ± 42, and 2,061 ± 49, respectively (Fig. 5D, 0 day). However, after the dark treatment, the rosette leaves of Pro35S:CRS plants clearly produced the highest amount of H2O2 (Fig. 5C, lower; Fig. 5D, 7 d). Taken together, H2O2 is more highly accumulated in Pro35S:CRS leaves than in those of the wild type and crs mutant under normal light conditions and during senescence induced by dark treatment. To confirm further that the senescence-associated function of CRS is related to H2O2 accumulation, we examined the responses of detached third and fourth rosette leaves from wild-type, Pro35S:CRS and crs mutant plants to a 3 d exposure to various concentrations of H2O2 (0–30 mM). Wild-type and Pro35S:CRS leaves showed the first signs of yellowing in 10 mM H2O2, while crs leaves started yellowing at 20 mM H2O2. In addition, with increasing H2O2 concentrations (up to 30 mM), the yellowing process appeared to progress more slowly in crs leaves than in wild-type leaves (Fig. 6A). At 30 mM H2O2, the Chl contents of the detached leaves of the wild-type and Pro35S:CRS plants decreased to 29.8% and 25.4%, respectively, compared with the control leaves (0 mM) (Fig. 6B), while the Chl content of leaves detached from crs plants was decreased to 58.2% of that of the control leaves. In summary, the leaves of crs plants are more tolerant to H2O2-inducible senescence than those of wild-type and Pro35S:CRS plants.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] WRKY53 is a ROS-inducible transcription factor that promotes senescence processes (CITATION, CITATION). The expression pattern of SEN1 is known to be induced in senescent leaves (CITATION, CITATION). These two senescence marker genes, WRKY53 and SEN1, were analyzed by real-time PCR to characterize the involvement of CRS in the senescence process further (Fig. 7A, B). WRKY53 expression in the leaves from wild-type plants grown in the dark for 4 d increased by >2.3-fold relative to that in leaves of untreated wild-type plants. However, the transcript level of WRKY53 in the leaves of Pro35S:CRS plants grown in the dark for 4 d was about 4.5- and 1.9-fold higher than that in the leaves of untreated and treated wild-type plants, respectively. SEN1 expression was regulated similarly to that of WRKY53. The transcript level of SEN1 in the leaves of Pro35S:CRS lines grown in the dark for 4 d was about 1.5-fold higher than that in the leaves of wild-type plants grown under the same dark conditions. In comparison, the expression of WRKY53 and SEN1 was down-regulated in crs mutant leaves to approximately 0.4- and 0.5-fold less than that in the dark-treated wild-type leaves. Consequently, CRS expression as well as that of WRKY53 and SEN1 is up-regulated and the ROS level is elevated during plant senescence. The loss-of-function mutant delays senescence by down-regulating WRKY53 and SEN1 with the reduction of ROS level.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Our results indicate that CRS induces cell death in yeast, as Cdf1 does (Fig. 2B, C). Cdf1 is known to induce cell death in a similar manner to a mammalian proapoptotic protein, Bax. In mammals, Bax induces caspase activation that triggers apoptotic cell death (CITATION, CITATION). In Arabidopsis, there are nine predicted metacaspases that are structurally homologous to animal caspases (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). To determine whether leaf senescence promotion of CRS correlates with the expression level of metacaspases, we compared the expression of these nine metacaspase genes in dark-treated wild-type, Pro35S:CRS and crs mutant plants. During senescence, two metacaspase genes, AtMC4 and AtMC9, were up-regulated in Pro35S:CRS plants and down-regulated in crs mutant plants compared with the wild type (Fig. 7C, D). However, the other seven metacaspase genes showed different expression patterns (Supplementary Fig. S2). These results imply that CRS may have a mode of action mechanism for plant senescence promotion that is similar to Bax-inducible mammalian cell death through caspase activation.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Col-0) plants were grown in soil (Sunshine Mix #5; Sun Gro Horticulture) at 22°C, 50% humidity in a growth chamber under long-day conditions (16/8 h, light/dark) after 4 d at 4°C in the dark. CRS cDNA was isolated by PCR amplification using wild-type cDNA pools as a template. Primers (CRS-F and CRS-R; Supplementary Table S1) were designed on the basis of information retrieved from The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR) database (http://www.arabidopsis.org). The ORF of CRS (861 bp) amplified with Pyrobest® DNA polymerase (TAKARA) was digested with XbaI and BamHI, and then cloned into the XbaI/BamHI-digested pCAMBIA2300 binary vector (Cambia) and confirmed by sequencing. The binary plasmid construct was introduced into Arabidopsis plants using A. tumefaciens strain GV3101 (CITATION) by the floral dip method (CITATION). Transgenic plants were selected on 1× MS medium (CITATION) containing 50 mg l–1 kanamycin and 100 mg l−1 carbenicillin, and screened for the presence of the transgene by PCR. Homozygous Pro35S:CRS lines were selected in the T3 generation and used in this study. The T-DNA insertion mutant (crs, GK-376A06) was obtained from GABI-Kat (MPI for Plant Breeding Research). The PCR conditions consisted of an initial denaturation at 95°C for 5 min, followed by 35 cycles of 95°C for 20 s, 55°C for 20 s and 72°C for 1 min, with a final 10 min extension at 72°C. Yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) strain BY4741 (MATa his3Δ1 leu2Δ0 met15Δ0 ura3Δ0) and the vector pESC-URA (Stratagene) were used in this study. Yeast cells were cultured in YPDA (1% yeast extract and 2% peptone) medium, and transformants were incubated on synthetic dropout (SD) selection medium lacking uracil (SD/-URA) at 30°C for 3 d. The full-length coding sequence of Cdf1 was amplified with the primer pair 5′-GGATCCAAATGTCCTCGTCTCTTCTTCTCTCCG-3′ (forward) and 5′-GTCGACGGTCTTGAGGAAAGTACAAGAAAGAAAC-3′ (reverse) by PCR. The full-length coding sequence of CRS with the yeast mitochondrial signal peptide sequence MLSLRQSIRFFKPATRTLCSSRYLL (CITATION) was amplified with the primer pair 5′-GGATCCAAATGCTTTCACTACGTCAATCTATAAGATTTTTCAAGCCAGCCACAAGAACTTTGTGTAGCTCTAGATATCTGCTTATGGCAACCGCAGCTCTCTC-3′ (forward) and 5′-GTCGACATACCTTAAGCATAGAGACACCAAGAACTG-3′ (reverse) by PCR. Underlining of the primer sequences represents restriction enzyme recognition sites. The PCR conditions consisted of an initial denaturation at 95°C for 5 min, followed by 35 cycles of 95°C for 20 s, 55°C for 20 s and 72°C for 90 s, with a final 10 min extension at 72°C. The amplified DNA products were digested with BamHI and SalI, and ligated into the corresponding site of the pESC-URA expression vector. For the yeast growth inhibition assay, yeast cells were grown in YPDA medium for 1 d. Serial dilutions were made when the cell culture reached an optical density of 0.1 at A600 (A600 = 0.1, 0.05, 0.01, 0.005, 0.001 and 0.0005), and 5 µl of each dilution was spotted onto SD-glucose or SD-galactose medium. Photographs were taken after the samples had been incubated in the selection media for 3 d at 30°C. Yeast cells grown in SD-glucose liquid medium to an optical density of 0.1 at A600 were transferred to SD-galactose liquid medium and cultured for 0, 4, 8 and 12 h. Then, 20 µl of cells were incubated with 0.1 mM DCFH-DA (Sigma-Aldrich) in a 1.5 ml tube for 10 min at room temperature. ROS generation was detected by fluorescence microscopy (Olympus model BX-51) at an excitation wavelength of 485 nm and an emission wavelength of 535 nm. The vital stain trypan blue (0.4%, Sigma-Aldrich) was used to detect cell death in yeast. Specifically, 20 µl of yeast cells which had been grown in SD-galactose liquid medium for 12 h were mixed with an equal volume of 0.4% trypan blue at room temperature and then observed by microscopy (Olympus model BX-51). Total RNA was isolated from leaves using TRI REAGENT® (Molecular Research Center) according to the manufacturer’s instructions, and a sample (5 µg) was reverse transcribed using the Transcriptor First Strand cDNA Synthesis kit (Roche). Then PCR was conducted with conditions of 26–35 cycles of 95°C for 20 s, 55°C for 20 s and 72°C for 40 s. Real-time PCR was performed by the LightCycler®480 II (Roche) using the KAPA SYBR® FAST qPCR kit (Kapa Biosystems). The Actin2 gene was used to normalize the differences in the amount of mRNA in each reaction. Relative amounts of transcripts were calculated by the comparative CT (threshold cycle number at the cross-point between the amplification plot and threshold) method and values were normalized to the internal Actin2 control. Each RNA sample was run in triplicate and repeated in two or three independent experiments. All primers for RT–PCR and real-time PCR are listed in Supplementary Table S2. To construct the Pro35S:YFP-CRS vector, CRS cDNA was amplified by PCR with primers (CRS-yfp-F and CRS-yfp-R, Supplementary Table S1) and digested with BamHI and SalI, and then cloned into the corresponding site of the plasmid p35S:YFP-FAST (CITATION). Transgenic Arabidopsis plants (Pro35S:YFP-CRS) expressing the YFP–CRS chimeric protein were generated using this construct, as described for the Pro35S:CRS lines. Mesophyll protoplasts were prepared from the T2 Arabidopsis leaves as described by CITATION and imaged using fluorescence microscopy [Olympus model BX-51 microscope equipped with XF116-2 (exciter, 475AF20; dichroic, 500DRLP; emitter, 510AF23), and XF111-2 (exciter, 540AF30; dichroic, 570DRLP; emitter, 575ALP) filter sets (Omega)]. To construct the Pro35S:CRS-GFP vector, CRS cDNA was amplified by PCR with primers (CRS-gfp-F and CRS-gfp-R, Supplementary Table S1) and digested with XbaI and BamHI, and then cloned into the corresponding site of the modified pCAMBIA1300-GFP vector that was generated by cloning HindIII/EcoRI-digested smGFP (CITATION) into the corresponding site of pCAMBIA1300 (Cambia). This construct was also transformed into A. tumefaciens strain GV3101 using the freeze–thaw method. The Pro35S:YFP-CRS and Pro35S:CRS-GFP constructs were then introduced into the abaxial sides of 3-week-old tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) leaves by the Agrobacterium-mediated infiltration method (CITATION). The infiltration solution contained 10 mM MgCl2, 10 mM MES-KOH (pH 5.7) and 200 mM acetosyringone (4′-hydroxy-3′,5′-dimethoxyacetophenone; Sigma-Aldrich). Three days after infiltration, fluorescence was analyzed by confocal laser scanning microscopy (LSM 510 META; Carl Zeiss). For YFP, GFP and chloroplast autofluorescence, the respective excitation wavelengths were 514, 488 and 543 nm and the emission wavelengths were collected with a band-pass filter at 530–600, 505–550 and 560–600 nm, respectively. The 1.7 kb CRS promoter region amplified from Arabidopsis genomic DNA by PCR with primers (ProCRS-F and ProCRS-R, Supplementary Table S1) was digested with HindIII and BamHI, and then cloned into the corresponding site of the pBI101 vector (Clontech). This construct was transformed into A. tumefaciens and Arabidopsis as described above. The PCR conditions consisted of an initial denaturation at 95°C for 5 min, followed by 40 cycles of 95°C for 30 s, 55°C for 30 s and 72°C for 2 min, with a final 10 min extension at 72°C. For GUS histochemical staining, tissue samples of T3 plants were incubated overnight in X-Gluc solution [1 mM 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-glucuronate, 10 mM Na2EDTA, 0.5 mM potassium ferrocyanide, 0.5 mM potassium ferricyanide, 0.1% (v/v) Triton X-100, 50 mM NaPO4 buffer, pH 7.0] at 37°C. After staining, the Chl was cleared from the Chl-containing tissues by immersion in an ethanol series (70% and 100%, each concentration for 1 d) and the tissues observed by microscopy (Olympus model SZ-40). For the dark treatment, 4-week-old Arabidopsis whole plants grown in soil were kept in the dark at 22°C for 0, 4 and 7 d. Chl was extracted from the third or fourth rosette leaves by boiling the leaves in 99.8% ethanol for 20 min at 80°C. The Chl content per fresh weight of leaf was calculated as described by CITATION. The H2O2 detection assay was performed as previously described by CITATION. Detached leaves kept in the dark for 4 d were stained overnight with DAB solution (Sigma-Aldrich) according to the manufacturer’s instructions, following which 99.8% ethanol was added to the leaves for 3 h to remove the pigments completely from the leaf tissue. Bleached leaves were observed microscopically (Olympus model SZ-40). The endogenous concentration of H2O2 was measured using the Amplex® Red hydrogen peroxide/peroxidase assay kit (Invitrogen) as described previously (CITATION). Fluorescence was measured with a fluorescence microplate reader at an excitation of 535 nm and fluorescence emission detection at 590 nm.
