!~ABS~!  
!~RES~! Disruption of the TRH1 potassium transporter impairs root hair development (Rigas et al., CITATION) and results in agravitropic root growth (Vicente‐Agullo et al., CITATION). In trh1 mutant plants, the root hair length (Figs 1, 2a) and density (Fig. 2b) were reduced relative to the wild‐type Wassilewskija (Ws‐0) ecotype background from which the mutant was isolated. In addition, the primary root growth was agravitropic (Fig. 2c). These morphological defects can be restored by exogenous application of auxin, demonstrating a link between TRH1 activity and auxin transport (Vicente‐Agullo et al., CITATION). These experimental results raised the question of whether auxin transport is defective in trh1 roots, resulting in suboptimal auxin levels at the epidermal tissues spanning the root elongation and differentiation zone.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To experimentally address this question, we observed the accumulation of auxin in trh1 plants by monitoring, at cellular resolution, the synthetic auxin‐responsive reporter DR5::GUS. The seedlings were grown under the effect of the synthetic auxin NAA. NAA is capable of entering cells by diffusion, but requires the active auxin efflux mechanism to be translocated. In the absence of NAA, the auxin response was restricted to the quiescent centre and to the initials or mature columella cells of the wild‐type root tip (Fig. 3a), whereas, in trh1 roots, additional sites of auxin response were detected in protoxylem cell files (Fig. 3b). Exogenous application of auxin for certain time points or under concentrations ranging from 10 to 60 nM revealed a completely different pattern of auxin distribution between the trh1 and wild‐type roots. Apart from the quiescent centre and columella initials or mature columella cells, wild‐type roots showed enhanced auxin accumulation in cortical, epidermal and lateral root cap cells at the meristematic region. However, at the central cylinder, DR5 expression was observed in a narrow column of stellar cells (Fig. 3a). By contrast, at the root tip of trh1 roots, DR5 expression was marginally detected at the cortical, epidermal and lateral root cap cells only under the application of 60 nM NAA (Fig. 3b). Likewise, in the distal elongation zone, the auxin response gradually expanded from the central cylinder to the root peripheral cell files as the duration of auxin application or the concentration of auxin increased. Together, these data demonstrate that, in wild‐type roots, the pattern of auxin response, as recorded by DR5::GUS expression, coincides with the reported basipetal route of auxin (Fig. 3c), whereas, in trh1 roots, this pattern is distorted (Fig. 3d). Furthermore, the increased expression of DR5 in the stele of the thr1 background reveals that auxin is acropetally directed to trh1 root tips without being redistributed further. The malfunction of the basipetal auxin transport route in trh1 roots leads to auxin imbalance which may perturb auxin‐dependent developmental processes, such as the root response to gravity and root hair development.  [[FIGURE]] Given the key role of directional auxin flow in plant developmental processes, we performed endogenous IAA measurements to verify experimentally that auxin homeostasis is perturbed in the trh1 root apex. In wild‐type root tips, the basipetal IAA concentration gradient is established just before the leaf‐mediated IAA pulse reaches the tip, accompanied by a significant increase in IAA concentration in the first millimetre of the root tip (Bhalerao et al., CITATION). Hence, the levels of free IAA were measured 4 and 7 d after germination in sections of wild‐type and trh1 root tips. IAA levels were slightly higher in the first millimetre and marginally lower above the third millimetre of 4‐d‐old trh1 root tips relative to the wild‐type tips (Fig. 4a). Within the central region of the root tips extending between the first and the third millimeter, the content of auxin in trh1 tips was similar to that of the wild‐type. However, the content of auxin was increased in 7‐d‐old trh1 root tips (Fig. 4b). Auxin concentration over the entire root tip of 7‐d‐old trh1 plants was significantly higher than that of the wild‐type plants. Elevated auxin accumulation provides evidence to support the acropetal direction of auxin to trh1 root tips, as revealed previously by DR5 expression in the stele of the trh1 background (Fig. 3b), but the active auxin efflux system mediating basipetal auxin distribution displays abnormal function, creating auxin imbalance.  [[FIGURE]] As the auxin accumulation pattern and IAA quantitative analysis revealed auxin imbalance in the trh1 root apex, it is important to delineate its functional role in hormone transport. To track TRH1 localization, the YFP reporter gene was fused at the C‐terminus of the TRH1 genomic fragment including the promoter sequence. Confocal microscopy live cell imaging revealed the polar plasma membrane localization of TRH1 at the cells of the epidermis, cortex and endodermis in the meristematic zone (Fig. 5a). In the stele of the root elongation zone, TRH1 was co‐localized with the polar auxin efflux carrier PIN1 on the basal (rootward) cell side, consistent with the role of TRH1 in auxin transport (Fig. 5b). The fact that TRH1 is localized in both the central cylinder at the elongation zone and in the peripheral root layers, including the epidermis and cortex, at the meristematic zone suggests that it could participate in both acropetal and basipetal auxin transport. Consequently, in trh1 roots, auxin imbalance is associated with developmental defects proximal and distal to the root apex. The proximal defect is the agravitropic root behaviour that most likely originates from the improper transport of auxin to the quiescent centre and columella region and/or from the hormonal gradient formed between the stele and the quiescent centre and columella region. The root hair phenotype is the distal defect attributed to the distorted basipetal auxin transport.  [[FIGURE]] Intriguingly, TRH1 is predominantly localized to internal compartments of the root epidermis (Fig. 5c,d). Apart from the evident internal localization, the FM4‐64 dye that labels the plasma membrane revealed that TRH1 is also partially localized at the plasma membrane (Fig. 5c). On brefeldin A (BFA) application, FM4‐64 is internalized, becoming a tool for the analysis of endocytosis and vesicle trafficking. This treatment indicated that TRH1 was not completely co‐localized with FM4‐64 (Fig. 5d). TRH1 localization at intracellular membrane structures is reminiscent of the route of auxin translocation within the cell from the cytoplasm to the nucleus, potentially through the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Intracellular auxin transport has already been reported for the PIN5‐type subclass formed by the Arabidopsis PIN5, PIN6 and PIN8 members of the PIN protein family that is evolutionarily older than the plasma membrane‐localized PIN1‐type subclass (Mravec et al., CITATION). PIN5‐mediated auxin uptake into the ER lumen might have a relevant role in reducing auxin availability for plasma membrane‐based auxin exporters and increasing the amount of auxin in the ER pool, where enzymes of auxin metabolism are compartmentalized.  As trh1 plants showed an impaired auxin homeostasis pattern, we hypothesized that the subcellular topology of the PIN auxin efflux carriers might be modified. To test this hypothesis, we determined the localization of the PIN auxin carriers. Immunolocalization revealed that only PIN1 was ectopically expressed in specific cell types of the trh1 meristematic zone. In the wild‐type roots, PIN1 is predominantly localized with a basal polarity to the bottom side of the stele and endodermis cells (Fig. 6a). Furthermore, PIN1 is detected at the quiescent centre and the cortex. At the meristematic zone surrounding the root initial cells, the PIN1 localization signal fades out, being restricted at the initials of the epidermis and lateral root cap, whereas it is marginally identified at the two epidermal cells above the quiescent centre (Fig. 6b). In contrast with wild‐type roots, in trh1 roots, PIN1 is detected at the epidermal cells of the entire meristematic zone and at the transition zone, a border between the root meristem and elongation zone (Fig. 6c,d). PIN1 is localized on the apical (shoot apex facing) side of the epidermal cells at the PIN2 position (Blilou et al., CITATION; Vieten et al., CITATION). The ectopic localization pattern of PIN1 is restored in trh1 plants functionally complemented by the insertion of the TRH1 genomic locus (Supporting Information Fig. S1), generating normally elongated root hairs (Fig. 2a,b) and having primary roots responding to gravity (Fig. 2c). Together, these results indicate that, in trh1 root tips, the ectopic polar arrangement of PIN1 results from auxin imbalance, and hence is most likely a response to attenuate the defect in basipetal hormonal transport.  [[FIGURE]] Auxin imbalance in trh1 root tips caused developmental defects, including agravitropic root growth and root hair phenotype, and ectopic PIN1 mislocalization at the meristematic region. This raised the question of whether it also occurs in other auxin mutants. The PIN2 gene encodes for an auxin efflux carrier that is predominantly found with apical polarity in the root epidermis and lateral root cap and basal polarity in the cortex (Blilou et al., CITATION; Vieten et al., CITATION). PIN2 is a major component for basipetal auxin transport, being involved in root gravitropism (Abas et al., CITATION). In addition to the agravitropic root growth phenotype (Fig. 2c), pin2 mutants also have a root hair phenotype (Fig. 1c), with reduced root hair length and density (Fig. 2a,b). Immunolocalization experiments revealed that PIN1 is localized on the apical side of pin2 epidermal cells at the meristematic zone (Fig. 6e). This pattern of PIN1 ectopic localization in pin2 mutants is consistent with previous observations supporting the hypothesis of functional synergistic interactions within the PIN members for compensation of the redundant auxin distribution network (Vieten et al., CITATION; Wisniewska et al., CITATION).  The localization pattern of PIN1 was also investigated in the root tips of axr2‐1 auxin signalling (Nagpal et al., CITATION) and aux1‐7 auxin transport (Pitts et al., CITATION) mutants. Not only were the root hair length and density problematic in both axr2‐1 (Figs 1d, 2a,b) and aux1‐7 (Figs 1e, 2a,b) backgrounds, but also the growth of the primary root was agravitropic (Fig. 2c). PIN1 was ectopically localized on the apical side of axr2‐1 (Fig. 6f) and aux1‐7 epidermal cells at the meristematic zone (Fig. 6g,h), as for the other mutant backgrounds. Taken together, the data demonstrate that auxin mutants with ectopic PIN1 localization at the meristematic zone have developmental defects including root gravitropism and root hair development.  To assess whether PIN1 ectopic mislocalization is associated directly with the root developmental defects in Arabidopsis, the PIN1 gene was introduced in wild‐type plants expressed under the control of the CaMV35S constitutive promoter. Immunolocalization of PIN1 in the transgenic overexpressor lines revealed that the auxin efflux carrier was ectopically localized at the apical (shootward) side of epidermal cells at the meristematic region (Fig. 6i,j). Furthermore, PIN1 overexpressors showed pronounced defects in root gravitropism (Fig. 2c), as reported previously by Petrásek et al. (CITATION), but also impaired root hair development (Figs 1f, 2a,b). These results are consistent with the data of auxin‐deficient mutants, indicating that, in PIN1 overexpressor lines, the topology of the PIN1 protein at the apical side of epidermal cells at the meristematic region is associated with root agravitropism and the root hair phenotype.  The fungal hypaphorine, the betaine of tryptophan, is an indole alkaloid that belongs in a class of IAA antagonists. Hypaphorine is a signalling molecule released by the fungus during Pisolithus tinctorius/Eucalyptus globulus symbiotic association (Ditengou & Lapeyrie, CITATION; Ditengou et al., CITATION). Hypaphorine shares structural similarities with IAA and the auxin precursor tryptophan (Fig. 7). Although auxin results in the inhibition of primary root elongation, the application of hypaphorine counteracts the inhibitory effect of auxin restoring the primary root growth and hence acting as a natural auxin inhibitor (Fig. S2). The application of 100 μM hypaphorine on wild‐type seedlings led to apical (shootward) polar localization of PIN1 on root epidermal cells at the meristematic zone (Fig. 6k,l). Likewise, hypaphorine had a dramatic effect on root hair morphogenesis (Figs 1g, 2a,b), whereas no effect was recorded in terms of agravitropic root growth (Fig. 2c). Interestingly, the root hair length and density were strongly inhibited as the concentration shifted from 100 to 500 μM. The increased concentration of 500 μM hypaphorine also had a slight effect on agravitropic root growth relative to a concentration of 100 μM. This agravitropic root growth phenotype induced by hypaphorine when applied at relatively high concentration could be attributed to the inability of the compound to be transported within the root tissues. Therefore, the effect is strictly restricted during the uptake on the epidermal and cortical peripheral root cell layers, inhibiting basipetal auxin transport. Thus, perturbation of auxin homeostastis results in ectopic PIN1 localization on the apical side of the epidermal cells at the meristematic zone, causing the defect of root hair development distal to the root apex.  [[FIGURE]] Unlike the other Arabidopsis mutants, rhd6 has the most severe root hair phenotype (Fig. 1h). RHD6 is required for the selection of the bulging site to initiate root hair elongation on the trichoblast (H‐position) (Masucci & Schiefelbein, CITATION) and, therefore, rhd6 is almost hairless (Fig. 2a,b). RHD6 is an important downstream regulator of the TTG/GL2 pathway, and auxin or ethylene can restore the rhd6 root hair phenotype (Masucci & Schiefelbein, CITATION, CITATION). Hence, hormones positively regulate root hair development independently of RHD6 (Cho & Cosgrove, CITATION; Jang et al., CITATION). Interestingly, immunolocalization experiments revealed that PIN1 is normally localized on the cells of the rhd6 root tips (Fig. 6m). Furthermore, the gravity response of rhd6 roots is not disturbed, being similar to that of wild‐type roots (Fig. 2c). These results are in agreement with previous genetic and physiological studies reported by Cho & Cosgrove (CITATION), indicating that there are two independent pathways for root hair initiation (Fig. 8). The first pathway is dependent on the external environmental stimuli that result in alterations in hormonal homeostasis in the Arabidopsis root apex. The second pathway includes RHD6 as a downstream component of the intrinsic developmental TTG/GL2 pathway that is involved in the initiation of root hair development. Consequently, RHD6 belongs to the developmental pathway that is independent of the environmental/hormonal pathway. The results indicating that PIN1 is not ectopically mislocalized in rhd6 root tips and rhd6 roots show no agravitropic growth support this model, suggesting that the environmental/hormonal signalling pathway converges with the developmental intrinsic pathway downstream of RHD6. The position of RHD6 in this developmental cascade explains why only the root hair morphogenesis is perturbed in rhd6 roots, but not agravitropic root growth.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. mutants aux1‐7 (N3074) and axr2 (N3077) were obtained from Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre, Nottingham, UK; rhd6 seeds were generously provided by Liam Dolan (University of Oxford, Oxford, UK); the 35S::PIN1 plant line was generated by fusion of the CaMV35S promoter with the Arabidopsis PIN1 gene, as described previously (Benková et al., CITATION). After 48 h of stratification in the dark at 4°C, plants were grown on a near‐vertical position on plates containing 0.5 × Murashige–Skoog (MS) medium (Duchefa, Haarlem, the Netherlands) supplemented with 0.05% MES‐KOH buffer, pH 5.7, 1% sucrose and solidified with 0.4% phytagel (Sigma, St Louis, MO, USA). Seedlings were cultivated for 3–7 d after germination (dag) at 22°C with a cycle of 16 h : 8 h light : dark. For chemical treatment, hypaphorine was prepared as described by Ditengou & Lapeyrie (CITATION).  PIN1 and PIN2 immunolocalizations in 5‐d‐old Arabidopsis seedlings were performed using the InsituPro liquid handling robot from Intavis AG (Cologne, Nordrhein‐Westfalen, Germany), as described by Friml et al. (CITATION). The following antibodies and dilutions were used: anti‐PIN1 (1 : 400) (Paponov et al., CITATION), anti‐PIN2 (1 : 400) (Müller et al., CITATION) and Alexa Fluor 488 or Alexa Fluor 546 (1 : 300) secondary antibodies (Molecular Probes, Oregon, OR, USA). Fluorescent samples were inspected by a Zeiss Axioplan 2 Imaging confocal laser scanning microscope and Zeiss LSM 510 Image Browser software. Images were processed using Adobe Photoshop.  Wild‐type and trh1 seedlings were initially grown vertically on solidified MS medium for 5 d. These young developing seedlings were subsequently transferred to liquid MS to be treated for several time points and concentrations with naphthalene‐1‐acetic acid (NAA) (Sigma). The DR5 auxin response transgene was visualized by β‐glucuronidase (GUS) staining for 2 h, as described previously (Haralampidis et al., CITATION). The specimens were observed under an Olympus BX‐50 (Tokyo, Japan) light microscope equipped with a Sony DSC‐F707 camera.  Arabidopsis wild‐type Wassilewskija (N1603) and trh1 mutant seedlings were grown on vertical agar plates for 4 and 7 d in long‐day conditions, as described by Ljung et al. (CITATION). The most apical (closest to the root tip) 4 mm of the root was collected from each seedling and divided into 1‐mm sections. For each sample, 50 sections were pooled, frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at −80°C; 100 pg 13C6‐IAA internal standard was added to each sample before extraction, and the samples were then extracted, purified and analysed by gas chromatography‐selected reaction monitoring‐mass spectrometry (GC‐SRM‐MS), as described previously (Ljung et al., CITATION). All measurements were performed in triplicate.  The root hair phenotype of Arabidopsis 5‐d‐old plants analysed in this study was observed on a Zeiss Stemi SV11 Apo stereomicroscope (Carl Zeiss, Goettingen, Germany), equipped with an Axiocam HR CCD camera (Carl Zeiss, Goettingen, Germany). Morphometric analysis of root shape was performed by scanning 5‐d‐old seedlings grown vertically on an Epson Perfection 3170 Photo Scanner (Seiko Epson Corp., Nagano‐Ken, Japan). The digital images obtained were further analysed using the IMAGEJ software package (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/) and were processed with Microsoft Office Excel. Vertical growth index calculations were performed as described previously (Grabov et al., CITATION).  Citrine‐YFP was PCR amplified with 5′‐TTTGATCAAAGGAGGTGGAGGTGGAGCT‐3′ forward and 5′‐TTGATCAAGGCCCCAGCGGCCGCAGCA‐3′ reverse primers. The PCR product was cloned into the pGEM T‐Easy vector (Promega, Madison, WI, USA). The TRH1 gene, including the promoter region, was PCR amplified with 5′‐AAGCTTGTCGACAGGCTGATATCTGGAGTGCTGGTGTGA‐3′ forward and 5′‐TTTGCAACTAAAACTACACAGAGTAGAG‐3′ reverse primers, and the PCR product was cloned into the pBluescript SK− vector. The Citrine‐YFP gene was then introduced into the C‐terminus of the TRH1 genomic sequence. The resulting TRH1‐ΥFP transgene was cloned into the SmaI site of the pGPTV‐HPT binary vector. The TRH1‐ΥFP construct was introduced into trh1 plants by Agrobacterium tumefaciens‐mediated stable transformation. Transgenic seedlings of the T2 and T3 generations were grown vertically and analysed by confocal microscopy. 
