!~ABS~! The majority of mitochondrial proteins are encoded in the nuclear genome and imported into mitochondria posttranslationally from the cytosol. An N-terminal presequence functions as the signal for the import of mitochondrial proteins. However, the functional information in the presequence remains elusive. This study reports the identification of critical sequence motifs from the presequence of Arabidopsis thaliana F1-ATPase γ-subunit (pFAγ). pFAγ was divided into six 10–amino acid segments, designated P1 to P6 from the N to the C terminus, each of which was further divided into two 5–amino acid subdivisions. These P segments and their subdivisions were substituted with Ala residues and fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP). Protoplast targeting experiments using these GFP constructs revealed that pFAγ contains several functional sequence motifs that are dispersed throughout the presequence. The sequence motifs DQEEG (P4a) and VVRNR (P5b) were involved in translocation across the mitochondrial membranes. The sequence motifs IAARP (P2b) and IAAIR (P3a) participated in binding to mitochondria. The sequence motifs RLLPS (P2a) and SISTQ (P5a) assisted in pulling proteins into the matrix, and the sequence motif IAARP (P2b) functioned in Tom20-dependent import. In addition, these sequence motifs exhibit complex relationships, including synergistic functions. Thus, multiple sequence motifs dispersed throughout the presequence are proposed to function cooperatively during protein import into mitochondria.
!~RES~! To characterize the molecular mechanism underlying protein import into MT in plant cells, sequence motifs were identified in pFAγ. pFAγ contains the N-terminal 77 amino acids of Arabidopsis thaliana pFAγ with a putative processing site after the 41st amino acid (see Supplemental Figure 1A online). When pFAγ:GFP, a fusion construct between pFAγ and green fluorescent protein (GFP), was transiently expressed in protoplasts from leaf tissues of Arabidopsis, a punctate staining pattern was observed that colocalized with the mitochondrial marker MitoTracker Red (see Supplemental Figure 1B online). In addition, when a lysate of these cells was analyzed by immunoblotting using an anti-GFP antibody, two protein bands at 32 and 38 kD were detected (see Supplemental Figure 1C online). The 32-kD band was the expected size of the processed form of pFAγ:GFP, generated by cleavage at the processing site following its import into MT. Indeed, the size of the processed form was nearly identical to that of an N-terminal deletion mutant, pFAγ-Δ[2-42]:GFP, which lacks amino acids 2 to 42 (see Supplemental Figure 1C online). These results suggest that pFAγ:GFP was correctly targeted to MT in Arabidopsis protoplasts. To identify pFAγ sequence motifs that are critical for protein import into MT, various Ala substitution mutants were generated. Serial C-terminal deletion of pFAγ revealed that the N-terminal 57 residues are sufficient to target GFP to the mitochondrial matrix (see Supplemental Figure 1D online). Accordingly, the N-terminal 61 residues of pFAγ were divided into six 10–amino acid segments designated P1 to P6. Each P segment was substituted with the corresponding number of Ala residues with the exception of the initial Met (Figure 1A). Previously, a similar approach was used to identify sequence motifs in chloroplast transit peptides (CITATION; CITATION, CITATION). The serial Ala substitution mutants were fused to GFP, and the resulting constructs were introduced into protoplasts. GFP localization was examined by fluorescence microscopy 24 h after transformation (HAT). All the substitution mutant proteins produced the punctate and thread-like patterns, similar to the full-length pFAγ:GFP. Furthermore, the GFP signals overlapped with that of MitoTracker Red (Figure 1B), confirming that they are targeted to the MT. As for pFAγ[P1A]:GFP, which had an Ala substitution in P1, the proteins were expressed at undetectable levels. Thus, this construct was excluded from analysis. [[FIGURE]] To examine the import of the mutant and the full-length pFAγ:GFP constructs at the biochemical level, protein extracts were prepared from protoplasts at 8, 16, and 24 HAT and analyzed by immunoblotting using anti-GFP antibody. The import efficiency of pFAγ:GFP was 58, 87, and 96% at 8, 16, and 24 HAT, respectively (Figure 1C). The Ala substitution mutants displayed various import efficiencies, contrasting with their localization patterns (Figure 1B). The import efficiency of pFAγ[P3A]:GFP and pFAγ[P6A]:GFP, with an Ala substitution in P3 and P6, respectively, was similar to that of pFAγ:GFP at 24 HAT. However, pFAγ[P3A]:GFP exhibited a slight decrease in import efficiency at early time points. This raised the possibility that P3 contains a sequence motif that functions in an early step of the import process. By contrast, pFAγ[P2A]:GFP, pFAγ[P4A]:GFP, and pFAγ[P5A]:GFP, which had Ala substitutions in P2, P4, and P5, respectively, displayed import efficiencies of 28, 18, and 12% at 8 HAT and 56, 51, and 41% at 24 HAT, respectively. These efficiencies were significantly lower than that of pFAγ:GFP (Figure 1C), indicating that P2, P4, and P5 contain sequence motifs that are important for protein import into MT. From the immunoblot analysis, we investigated whether the detected proteins are associated with, but not imported into, MT or are imported into MT but not processed. To confirm the localization of these reporter proteins, protoplast lysates were separated into soluble and membrane fractions by ultracentrifugation and analyzed by immunoblotting using an anti-GFP antibody. The separation of soluble and membrane proteins was confirmed by blotting with antibodies against Arabidopsis aleurain-like protein (AALP) and porin, which localize to the vacuolar lumen and mitochondrial membrane, respectively (CITATION; CITATION). Following this fractionation, imported matrix proteins should be detected in the soluble fraction (CITATION). The processed forms of the wild-type (pFAγ:GFP) and Ala substitution mutants (pFAγ[P2A]:GFP, pFAγ[P3A]:GFP, pFAγ[P4A]:GFP, and pFAγ[P5A]:GFP) were detected in the soluble fraction (Figure 1D). In addition, the intermediate forms of pFAγ[P5A]:GFP were also detected in the soluble fraction. GFP alone, used as a control for GFP fusion proteins, was also detected in the soluble fraction. However, the unprocessed precursors of these reporter proteins pFAγ[P2A]:GFP, pFAγ[P4A]:GFP, and pFAγ[P5A]:GFP were detected largely in the membrane fraction with a minor proportion of pFAγ[P5A]:GFP precursors in the soluble fraction, indicating that these mutant precursors are defective in protein import into MT. To further confirm the localization of these proteins, we examined the sensitivity of these proteins to thermolysin. The gentle protoplast lysates were treated with thermolysin in the presence and absence of Triton X-100 and analyzed by immunoblotting using anti-GFP antibody. In these conditions, cytosolic proteins or MOM proteins exposed to the cytosol are sensitive to thermolysin. By contrast, proteins within MT are protected from degradation by thermolysin but become sensitive to thermolysin in the presence of Triton X-100. The tightly folded core domain of GFP is known to be resistant to proteolytic degradation by thermolysin. Thus, only the N-terminally exposed regions are degraded by thermolysin, and the product is a smaller protein species (Hyunjong et al., 2004; CITATION). The processed forms of all the Ala substitution mutants pFAγ[P2A]:GFP, pFAγ[P3A]:GFP, pFAγ[P4A]:GFP, and pFAγ[P5A]:GFP were protected from thermolysin and became sensitive to thermolyin in the presence of Triton X-100, indicating that they are imported into MT (Figure 1E). However, the precursors of all these reporter constructs with exception of pFAγ[P5A]:GFP were largely sensitive to thermolysin, indicating that the precursors were associated with the surface of MT. In the case of pFAγ[P5A]:GFP, the thermolysin treatment also increased the amount of the degradation band at 27 kD, indicating that a proportion of the precursors were associated with the surface of MT. At the same time, a proportion of the precursors was resistant to thermolysin but became sensitive to thermolysin in the presence of Triton X-100, raising the possibility that they are imported into MT but not processed into mature forms or protected by a membranous structure. In P4A and P5A mutants, the highly conserved Arg residue (-2R) and the processing site were replaced with Ala residues, respectively. The Arg residue is thought to be critical for precursor processing (CITATION). Therefore, it is possible that the observed reduction in import efficiency of these PS mutants, in particular pFAγ[P5A]:GFP, was caused by defective processing of the imported precursors, rather than by defects in the import process itself. In fact, the presence of pFAγ[P5A]:GFP precursors that are resistant to thermolysin raised this possibility. To test this possibility, we determined the exact location of the thermolysin-resistant pFAγ[P5A]:GFP precursors. Transformed protoplasts were gently lysed and treated with thermolysin. After inactivation of thermolysin, the lysates were further lysed by sonication and separated into the soluble and membrane fractions by ultracentrifugation. In this experimental scheme, precursors located in the cytoplasm should be degraded by thermolysin and the unprocessed precursors in mitochondrial matrix should be protected from thermolysin and detected in the soluble fraction after separation by ultracentrifugation. Indeed, the matrix protein IDH was protected from thermolysin-mediated degradation and detected in the soluble fraction. The thermolysin-resistant pFAγ[P5A]:GFP precursors were detected in the pellet fraction (see Supplemental Figure 2 online), indicating that they are not fully imported into MT but rather associated with mitochondrial membranes. This result supports the notion that the Ala substitution at P5 may not affect the processing. Consistent with this notion, pFAγ[P5aA]:GFP, which had an identical Ala substitution to pFAγ[P5A] at the processing site, did not show any defect in protein import into MT in protoplasts (Figure 3D). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To further confirm this finding, we performed in vitro import experiments using wild-type and mutant PS constructs (FAγ, FAγ[P2A], FAγ[P3A], FAγ[P4A], and FAγ[P5A]) (CITATION). For in vitro experiments, the full-length FAγ constructs with these Ala substitution mutations in the PS were used instead of the GFP fusion constructs. FAγ, FAγ[P2A], FAγ[P3A], FAγ[P4A], and FAγ[P5A] gave import efficiencies of 23, 2.9, 3.4, 16.6, and 18.5%, respectively (see Supplemental Figure 3 online), indicating that Ala substitution in P2 and P3 severely affected the import efficiency, whereas Ala substitution in P4 and P5 had only minor effect on import (Figure 1C; see Supplemental Figure 3 online). Thus, the import efficiency of these mutants in vitro was different from their import efficiency in protoplasts. This difference may be caused by a difference in import conditions, such as the amount of precursors and the time course we used in these experiments. However, despite the difference in the import efficiency between the protoplast and in vitro system, the processed forms of all the Ala substitution mutants were identical in size to the processed form of the wild-type construct (Figure 1F; see Supplemental Figure 3 online). In addition, in the presence of valinomycin, an inhibitor of protein import into MT (CITATION), none of these constructs produced proteinase K–resistant mature proteins, confirming that the processed forms are generated by MPP after their import into mitochondrial matrix. Moreover, despite the Ala substitution mutations of the -2R and the processing site in pFAγ[P4A] and pFAγ[P5A], respectively, they were correctly processed, suggesting that pFAγ[P4A] and pFAγ[P5A] have a defect in crossing the envelope membranes but not in processing. Ala substitution mutations introduce new sequences and thereby may alter the secondary structure in the PS. This, in turn, may have unexpected effects on protein import into MT. Thus, we examined the secondary structure of the wild-type and mutant FAγ PSs using the prediction tool Psi-pred. According to the prediction, pFAγ contains helical structures in the P1 and in the C-terminal region from the P5 to the end of the PS. pFAγ has a coiled-coil structure in the middle of the PS with the exception of a short helical region in the P3a subdivision (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). The P6A mutant did not show any secondary structural changes. However, the coiled-coil structure was replaced by a short helical structure in the P2A, P3A, P4A, and P5A mutants (see Supplemental Figure 4A online). Therefore, we cannot exclude the possibility that structural changes in the mutant PSs affected protein import into MT. As an alternative approach, deletion mutants were generated and their import efficiency into MT was evaluated. Each P segment was deleted to generate pFAγ[ΔP1], pFAγ[ΔP2], pFAγ[ΔP3], pFAγ[ΔP4], or pFAγ[ΔP5], which was fused to GFP (Figure 2A). The resulting constructs were introduced into protoplasts, and the localization and import efficiency were determined by fluorescence microscopy and immunoblot analysis, respectively. pFAγ[ΔP1]:GFP produced a cytosolic diffuse GFP pattern (Figure 2B), indicating that the protein was not targeted to MT. By contrast, other deletion constructs (pFAγ[ΔP2]:GFP to pFAγ[ΔP5]:GFP) did not display significant defects in protein targeting to MT. Similar to the full-length pFAγ:GFP, these deletion mutants primarily produced punctate staining patterns, indicating that they are targeted to MT (Figure 2B). In addition, the import efficiency of pFAγ[ΔP2]:GFP, pFAγ[ΔP3]:GFP, and pFAγ[ΔP5]:GFP, as determined by immunoblot analysis, was similar to the corresponding Ala substitution mutants (Figure 2C). However, the import efficiency of pFAγ[ΔP4]:GFP was significantly different from that of pFAγ[P4A]:GFP. Moreover, they showed different processing patterns (Figure 2C). Subcellular fractionation and thermolysin treatment assay confirmed that the two processed forms of pFAγ[ΔP4]:GFP near 31 kD were located in the mitochondrial matrix (see Supplemental Figure 5 online). The P4 segment contains -2R, which is critical for the processing by MPP (CITATION). Therefore, it is possible that the P4 deletion resulting in removal of the conserved -2R and bringing a new sequence close to the processing site at the P5 affects processing and import efficiency. Therefore, to avoid this complication and because Ala substitution of the first 5–amino acid segment, but not the second 5–amino acid segment, of P4 caused a significant defect in protein import into MT (Figure 3C), we generated an additional mutant pFAγ[ΔP4a] that had a deletion of the first 5–amino acid segment of P4 and examined its import into MT (Figure 2D). The import efficiency of pFAγ[ΔP4a]:GFP was similar to that of the Ala substitution mutants pFAγ[P4A]:GFP and pFAγ[P4aA]:GFP (Figures 2D and 3C). Taken together, these results support the notion that the import defects observed in Ala substitution in P2, P3, P4, and P5 segments are not directly correlated with any possible alteration of their secondary structure by Ala substitution. To further define the critical sequence motifs in P2, P4, and P5, these segments were further divided into two subdivisions containing five residues (indicated by “a” and “b” for the first and second 5–amino acid subdivisions, respectively). Each of these subdivisions was then substituted with five Ala residues (Figure 3A). The mutants were fused to GFP, and the resulting constructs were introduced into protoplasts to examine the import efficiency. pFAγ[P2aA]:GFP and pFAγ[P2bA]:GFP, containing Ala substitutions at the first and second 5–amino acid subdivision of P2, respectively, exhibited import efficiencies of 81 and 84% at 24 HAT, respectively (Figure 3B), indicating that their import efficiency is higher than that of pFAγ[P2A]:GFP but lower than that of wild-type pFAγ:GFP. It is possible that the sequence motifs in P2a and P2b are functionally redundant and both motifs are required for full activity. Alternatively, it is possible that the sequence motifs in P2a and P2b may constitute a single motif and Ala substitution in P2a or P2b renders the motif partially defective in protein import into MT. To define the sequence motif in P4, the import efficiency of pFAγ[P4aA]:GFP and pFAγ[P4bA]:GFP was examined. These constructs contained Ala substitutions in the first and second 5–amino acid subdivision of P4, respectively. The import efficiency of pFAγ[P4aA]:GFP was 58% at 24 HAT, similar to that of pFAγ[P4A]:GFP. By contrast, the import efficiency of pFAγ[P4bA]:GFP was similar to that of pFAγ:GFP. These results indicate that the DQEEG sequence in P4a is critical for protein import into MT (Figure 3C). In addition, in the DQEEG motif, all five amino acid residues were critical for import (see Supplemental Figure 6 online). This motif contains multiple acidic amino acids. This represents an unusual feature, as the lack of acidic residues is a characteristic property of the PS (CITATION). Next, the import efficiency of pFAγ[P5aA]:GFP and pFAγ[P5bA]:GFP, containing Ala substitutions at the first and second 5–amino acid subdivisions of P5, respectively, was examined. pFAγ[P5bA]:GFP, but not pFAγ[P5aA]:GFP, exhibited a significant defect in mitochondrial protein import, as was observed with pFAγ[P5A]:GFP (Figure 3D). Similar to the DQEEG motif, all five amino acid residues in the VVRNR motif were important for the import process (see Supplemental Figure 6 online), suggesting that this is the combination of the 5 amino acids that is important. pFAγ[P4a5bA]:GFP contained double mutations in DQEEG and VVRNR. In protoplasts, pFAγ[P4a5bA]:GFP produced only 38-kD precursors with a small amount of a degradation product at the 28-kD position (Figure 3E), indicating that the protein import into MT was almost completely inhibited. Thus, these two motifs are most crucial for protein import into MT, and upon mutation of these motifs, the PS loses the ability to target to MT. The mitochondrial import process can be divided into multiple steps. These include the cytosolic navigation to MT, binding to mitochondrial TOM receptors, and translocation through outer and inner mitochondrial membranes (CITATION; CITATION). To define the specific protein import steps affected in the Ala substitution mutants, protein extracts from protoplasts transformed with pFAγ[P4aA]:GFP or pFAγ[P5bA]:GFP were separated into soluble and membrane fractions by ultracentrifugation and analyzed by immunoblotting using anti-GFP antibody. The processed forms of pFAγ[P4aA]:GFP and pFAγ[P5bA]:GFP were detected in the soluble fraction. By contrast, the precursors of pFAγ[P4aA]:GFP and pFAγ[P5bA]:GFP were detected in the membrane fraction (Figure 4A), indicating that they are associated with MT but not imported into the matrix. The results suggest that the DQEEG and VVRNR are involved in crossing the mitochondrial membranes. [[FIGURE]] To further define the specific steps affected by these motifs, the thermolysin sensitivity of pFAγ[P4aA]:GFP and pFAγ[P5bA]:GFP was examined. The precursor of pFAγ[P4aA]:GFP was also largely sensitive to thermolysin. However, the pFAγ[P5bA]:GFP precursors were mainly resistant but became sensitive to thermolysin in the presence of 0.5% Triton X-100 (Figure 4B). These data indicate that although both mutant precursors were associated with membranes, this association occurs at different stages. The processed forms of both mutant proteins became sensitive to thermolysin upon treatment with Triton X-100, confirming that the processed proteins are located within MT (Figure 4B). Based on these results, the DQEEG motif is involved in an earlier step than the VVRNR motif, and both steps occur while the precursors are passing through the import channel. To assess how frequently the two critical motifs DQEEG and VVRNR are found in the PSs of mitochondrial proteins, we used an approach that has been previously used to compare the sequence motifs of transit peptides (CITATION). A total of 198 Arabidopsis mitochondrial proteins that are located in the MT were identified using the Uniprot database. The first 50 amino acids of these proteins were used in a global alignment to identify motifs that were identical or similar to DQEEG or VVRNR. The N-terminal 50 residues were chosen because the DQEEG and VVRNR motifs of pFAγ are located within this region. Of the 198 PSs, 35 and 40 PSs were predicted to contain DQEEG-like and VVRNR-like motifs, respectively. Statistical significance of the global alignment scores was assessed by calculating P values. In both cases, we used the P value of global alignment scores lower than 0.2, and the predicted sequence motif that had the P value lower than 0.2 was defined as a -like motif (see Supplemental Data Sets 1 and 2 online). In addition, six PSs were predicted to contain both DQEEG-like and VVRNR-like motifs. The PS (N-terminal 74 amino acids) of NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) iron-sulfur protein 8-B, pNDS8B, was predicted to contain DQEEG-like and VVRNR-like motifs at amino acids 44 to 49 (DDEEA, P = 0.024) and 12 to 16 (ALRAR, P = 0.064), respectively (Figure 5A). To test whether the two motifs in pNDS8B play a role in mitochondrial import, the motifs were replaced with Ala residues and the resulting mutants were fused to GFP to create pNDS8B[DDEEA/AAAAA]:GFP and pNDS8B[ALRAR/AAAAA]:GFP. These mutants or the wild-type construct, pNDS8B:GFP, were transformed into protoplasts and their localization was examined. All constructs exhibited a punctate staining pattern, indicating that they were targeted to MT (Figure 5B). To determine the import efficiency of these mutants, protein lysates from the protoplasts were analyzed by immunoblotting using an anti-GFP antibody. The import efficiency of the wild-type construct, pNDS8B:GFP, was 74% at 24 HAT (Figure 5C). Similarly, the import efficiency of pNDS8B[DDEEA/AAAAA]:GFP was 69% at 24 HAT (Figure 5D), indicating that substitution of the DDEEA motif with Ala residues had only marginal effect on the mitochondrial import of pNDS8B. Although this result suggests that the DDEEA motif is not important for mitochondrial protein import, it cannot be excluded that another sequence motif was able to compensate for the loss of the DDEEA. By contrast, the import efficiency of pNDS8B[ALRAR/AAAAA]:GFP was 43% and an intermediate form was observed (Figure 5C), indicating that the substitution of the ALRAR with Ala residues disrupted mitochondrial protein import. [[FIGURE]] The PS of ATP synthase subunit β-2 (pFAβ) was predicted to contain a VNRNPR motif between amino acids 23 and 28 (P = 0.070), similar to the VVRNR motif of pFAγ (Figure 5E). To examine the importance of the VNRNPR for mitochondrial import, the motif was replaced with Ala residues and the resulting mutant was fused to GFP to give pFAβ[VNRNPR/AAAAAA]:GFP. This mutant or the wild-type construct pFA:GFP was transformed into protoplasts and their localization was examined. Both proteins exhibited punctate fluorescence, indicating they were targeted to MT (Figure 5F). Immunoblotting was used to examine the import efficiencies of these proteins. The wild-type and mutant proteins showed 67 and 44% of the import efficiency, respectively (Figures 5G and 5H), indicating that the VNRNPR motif plays an important role in protein translocation across the mitochondrial membranes. Together, these results suggest that VVRNR-like motifs present in PSs of other mitochondrial proteins play an important role in mitochondrial protein import. Since we found no evidence that DQEEG-like motifs contribute to mitochondrial import of other proteins, it is possible that this motif is unique to pFAγ. The PS was further analyzed to investigate the presence of additional sequence motifs that had not been identified during the first round of Ala substitution mutations. It was reasoned that functionally compensatory motifs might not be identified by Ala substitution of a single motif. Indeed, PSs are known to contain multiple Tom20 binding sites (CITATION; CITATION). In addition, functionally compensatory sequence motifs are present in the transit peptide of the ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase small subunit (RbcS) (CITATION). Thus, a new set of Ala substitution mutants was generated into two subdivisions in a combinatorial manner (Figure 6A). These mutants were fused to GFP, and the resulting constructs were introduced into protoplasts. The import efficiency was evaluated by immunoblot analysis using an anti-GFP antibody (Table 1). Among the double mutant constructs, a large number of mutants exhibited significantly lower import efficiencies compared with their single mutants. These results indicate that pFAγ contains numerous additional motifs. The double Ala substitution mutants were grouped into two different categories. In one group, the substitution of either single motif caused negligible inhibitory effects (<10%) on import efficiency, but simultaneous substitution of both motifs caused an import efficiency reduction >50%. In the second group, Ala substitution of single subdivisions did not have any effect on import efficiency, but their Ala substitutions greatly aggravated the import efficiency of other mutants that had Ala substitution on critical motifs such as those in P2a, P2b, P4a, and P5b. The motifs in the first and second groups were defined as functionally compensatory and synergistic, respectively. [[FIGURE]] Among the double substitution mutants (Figure 6A), pFAγ[P3a4bA]:GFP, pFAγ[P3a5aA]:GFP, pFAγ[P3b5aA]:GFP, and pFAγ[P4b5aA]:GFP belonged to the first group. These mutants exhibited significant defects in mitochondrial protein import, although their single Ala substitution mutants did not significantly affect protein import efficiency. pFAγ[P3a4bA]:GFP, pFAγ[P3a5aA]:GFP, pFAγ[P3b5aA]:GFP, and pFAγ[P4b5aA]:GFP, which had Ala substitutions in a combination of two subdivisions (P3a/P4b, P3a/P5a, P3b/P5a, and P4b/P5a, respectively) primarily produced precursors with only a small portion of processed forms. Thus, these mutants yielded import efficiencies of 33, 32, 45, and 24% at 24 HAT, respectively (Figure 6B, Table 1). In addition, pFAγ[P3a5aA]:GFP, pFAγ[P3b5aA]:GFP, and pFAγ[P4b5aA]:GFP produced a small portion of intermediate forms. However, despite the lower import efficiency, all of these mutants produced the typical mitochondrial pattern (Figure 6C), indicating that they are targeted to MT but not imported into MT. Consistent with this hypothesis, precursors of these constructs were detected in the membrane fraction following ultracentrifugation (Figure 6D). The behavior of the processed forms differed slightly among these constructs. The processed forms of pFAγ[P3a5aA]:GFP, pFAγ[P3b5aA]:GFP, and pFAγ[P4b5aA]:GFP were detected in the soluble fraction, but the processed form of pFAγ[P3a4bA]:GFP was detected in the pellet fraction. To further define the steps affected by mutations of these motifs, the thermolysin sensitivity of these constructs was examined. All the mutants were resistant to thermolysin (Figure 6E). However, when pretreated with Triton X-100, the mutants became sensitive to thermolysin and produced the 27-kD form, with the exception of pFAγ[P3a4bA]:GFP. This mutant appeared completely degraded. It is possible that when these constructs were trapped at the import channel, the GFP moiety of pFAγ[P3a4bA]:GFP was unfolded so that it became sensitive to thermolysin, whereas the GFP moiety of pFAγ[P3a5aA]:GFP, pFAγ[P3b5aA]:GFP, and pFAγ[P4b5aA]:GFP exists as a folded form. Mitochondrial proteins are unfolded during transport through the import channel (CITATION; CITATION). The second group contained six constructs: pFAγ[P2a3aA]:GFP, pFAγ[P2a5aA]:GFP, pFAγ[P2b3aA]:GFP, pFAγ[P2b4aA]:GFP, pFAγ[P2b5aA]:GFP, and pFAγ[P3b4aA]:GFP (Figure 7A). These constructs exhibited a great reduction in protein import efficiency compared with their corresponding single Ala substitution mutants. pFAγ[P2a3aA]:GFP contained Ala substitutions in both P2a and P3a. The single substitution mutations in P2aA and P3aA had a moderate effect and almost no effect on protein import, yielding 81 and 95% import efficiency at 24 HAT, respectively (Table 1, Figure 5B). However, pFAγ[P2a3aA]:GFP yielded an import efficiency of only 32% (Figure 7B), indicating that simultaneous mutations in both P2a and P3a greatly hamper protein import into MT. pFAγ[P2a3aA]:GFP produced the typical mitochondrial pattern, indicating that it is targeted to MT but not imported into MT (Figure 7C). Consistent with the images, both precursor and processed forms were detected in the membrane fraction following ultracentrifugation (Figure 7D). In addition, the processed form was resistant but became sensitive to thermolysin when pretreated with Triton X-100, indicating its tight association with mitochondrial membranes. These results suggest that the sequence motif in P3a functions cooperatively with P2a for translocation through the membrane. [[FIGURE]] pFAγ[P2a5aA]:GFP, containing Ala substitutions in both P2a and P5a, showed very little processed form at 24 HAT (Figure 7B), indicating that the P5aA mutation alone does not have much inhibitory effect on protein import efficiency but has a strong inhibitory effect when combined with the P2aA mutation. When examined under a fluorescence microscope, no GFP signal was detected. When GFP is trapped at the chloroplast envelope membrane, it does not fold properly, and as a result, does not produce GFP fluorescence (CITATION). Thus, pFAγ[P2a5aA]:GFP may have been trapped in the membrane in an unfolded form. To test this hypothesis, protoplasts were immunostained with anti-GFP antibody and the localization of GFP was examined. A punctate staining pattern was evident (Figure 7F), indicating that it was targeted at the mitochondrial membrane. Consistent with this localization pattern, the precursor of pFAγ[P2a5aA]:GFP was detected in the membrane fraction (Figure 7D). Moreover, the protein was resistant but became sensitive to thermolysin when pretreated with Triton X-100 (Figure 7E). Similar to pFAγ[P3a4bA]:GFP (Figure 6E), the protein was completely degraded by thermolysin following Triton X-100 treatment (Figure 7E). These results suggest that the motif in P5a functions together with the motif in P2a for translocation through the import channel. pFAγ[P2b3aA]:GFP, containing Ala substitutions in P2b and P3a, produced only small amounts of intermediate forms but no processed forms (Figure 7B). Mutation of P2b alone resulted in 84% import efficiency, but mutation of P3aA alone did not affect import efficiency, indicating that the P3aA mutation greatly aggravates the moderate inhibitory effect of the P2bA mutation. When examined with a fluorescence microscope, pFAγ[P2b3aA]:GFP produced a diffuse cytosolic pattern (Figure 7C). When separated by ultracentrifugation, significant amounts of the protein were detected in both the soluble and the pellet fractions (Figure 7D). However, the majority of the protein was sensitive to thermolysin even in the absence of Triton X-100 treatment (Figure 7E). These results suggest that the two motifs in P2b and P3a are crucial for binding to MT. Additionally, the motif in P2a functions cooperatively with that in P3a. pFAγ[P2b4aA]:GFP contained Ala substitutions in both P2b and P4a. This mutant exhibited <10% import efficiency at 24 HAT, but pFAγ[P2bA]:GFP and pFAγ[P4aA]:GFP exhibited 84 and 58% import efficiencies, respectively (Figure 7B, Table 1). Image analysis revealed an aggregate pattern in the cytosol (Figure 7C). When fractionated by ultracentrifugation, the precursors were detected in the pellet fraction. This is likely due to aggregation of the protein. In addition, the protein was sensitive to thermolysin (Figure 7E), similar to pFAγ[P4aA]:GFP. This is consistent with a cytosolic localization. These results suggest that the combined mutations in the sequence motifs of P2b and P4a affect an early transport step, such as the binding of proteins to MT, during protein import into MT. pFAγ[P2b5aA]:GFP contained Ala substitutions in P2b and P5a and was localized to MT. However, this mutant displayed an import efficiency of 49% at 24 HAT (Figures 7B and 7C, Table 1). When separated by ultracentrifugation, the precursors were primarily detected in the membrane fraction, while processed and intermediate forms were detected in the soluble fraction (Figure 7D). This confirms that the precursors were trapped at the import channel. In addition, the protein was resistant to thermolysin but became sensitive when pretreated with Triton X-100 (Figure 7E). These results suggest that the motif in P5a may function together with that in P2b for translocation across the membranes. pFAγ[P3b4aA]:GFP contained Ala substitutions in both P3b and P4a. This mutant exhibited an import efficiency of <5% and primarily produced the precursor form. In comparison, the import efficiency of pFAγ[P3bA]:GFP and pFAγ[P4aA]:GFP was 93 and 58%, respectively (Figure 7B). However, pFAγ[P3b4aA]:GFP showed a mitochondrial pattern, indicating mitochondrial targeting (Figure 7C). Consistent with this result, the precursors were primarily detected in the pellet fraction (Figure 7D) and sensitive to thermolysin even in the absence of Triton X-100, suggesting that pFAγ[P3b4aA]:GFP is loosely associated with MT (Figure 7E). Thus, the motif in P3b may cooperatively function with the DQEEG in P4a at an earlier translocation step. To better understand the mechanism of mitochondrial protein import, the role of the MOM receptors was examined. Plant cells contain multiple types of import receptors at the MOM. These include primary import receptors Tom20 and OM64, which are likely to contain secondary binding sites that function in passing the precursor protein through the MOM as described by the binding chain hypothesis, and METAXIN, Tom40, and small Toms that are also likely to contain secondary binding sites (CITATION). For Tom20, four isoforms (TOM20-1 to TOM20-4) exist in the Arabidopsis genome. Three of these isoforms, TOM20-2 to TOM20-4, are known to be expressed and functional (CITATION). To examine the role of these import receptors, protoplasts were prepared from tom20-2 tom20-3 tom20-4 triple mutant plants. These protoplasts were transformed with pFAγ:GFP, and its localization was examined. In the tom20 triple mutant protoplasts, pFAγ:GFP produced primarily the punctate staining pattern with a minor diffuse cytosolic pattern (Figure 8A), suggesting that the import efficiency was slightly affected in the mutants. To determine its import efficiency in the mutants, protein extracts from the transformed protoplasts were analyzed by immunoblotting using anti-GFP antibody. The amount of the 31-kD processed form at 24 HAT was decreased by 20% in tom20 triple mutant protoplasts compared with the wild-type protoplasts (Figure 8B). This result is consistent with the image analysis results. The import efficiency of pFAγ:GFP in tom20-2 or tom20-4 protoplasts decreased to <10% at 24 HAT compared with the wild-type protoplasts (see Supplemental Figure 7A online). Additionally, the tom20-3 mutation did not significantly affect the import efficiency of pFAγ:GFP, indicating that the Tom20s are functionally redundant. This is consistent with results obtained from in vitro import experiments (CITATION). The protein import of pFAγ:GFP was also examined in mtom64 mutant protoplasts, and the import efficiency was identical to that of wild-type protoplasts (see Supplemental Figure 7B online). [[FIGURE]] Next, the sequence motif involved in Tom20 binding was identified. It was reasoned that the protein import efficiency of the Ala substitution mutants of Tom20 binding sites in tom20 triple mutant protoplasts should be identical to the wild type. Thus, the protein import efficiencies of various Ala substitution mutants in wild-type and tom20 triple mutant protoplasts were compared. From the various Ala substitution mutants, pFAγ[P2aA]:GFP, pFAγ[P2bA]:GFP, pFAγ[P4aA]:GFP, or pFAγ[P5bA]:GFP were selected for transformation into tom20 triple mutants or wild-type protoplasts. The import efficiency was determined by immunoblot analysis using an anti-GFP antibody. Among the four mutants, pFAγ[P2aA]:GFP, pFAγ[P4aA]:GFP, and pFAγ[P5bA]:GFP had a 20% or higher decrease in import efficiency in the tom20 triple mutant protoplasts compared with that of pFAγ:GFP in the wild-type protoplasts (Figure 8C), indicating that these three mutants still exhibit Tom20-dependent protein import into MT. By contrast, the import efficiency of pFAγ[P2bA]:GFP in tom20 triple mutant protoplasts was similar to that of the wild-type protoplasts, indicating that pFAγ[P2bA]:GFP no longer exhibits Tom20-dependent protein import into MT. It is possible that IAARP in P2b is involved in Tom20-dependent protein import into MT. To further confirm this hypothesis, we generated a new mutant pFAγ[ΔP2b]:GFP that contained a deletion of the P2b region. The import efficiency of this mutation was examined in tom20 triple mutant and wild-type protoplasts. The import efficiency was identical in both tom20 triple mutant and the wild-type protoplasts (Figure 8D), supporting the hypothesis that the IAARP motif is involved in Tom20-dependent protein import into MT. Indeed, IAARP in P2b together with the neighboring amino acid Ile in P3a (IAARPI) conforms to ϕxxϕϕ, the consensus sequence of Tom20 binding sites (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION).
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana (Columbia-0) was grown on Gamborg B5 plates (Duchefa) at 40% relative humidity and 22°C with a 16-h/8-h light/dark cycle. Leaf tissues were harvested from 18-d-old plants and used immediately for protoplast isolation. Tom20 single-gene knockout mutants (tom20-2, tom20-3, and tom20-4), Tom20 triple knockout mutant (tom20-2 tom20-3 tom20-4), and mtOM64 knockout mutant (mtom64) were isolated from the T-DNA insertion lines (CITATION). Construction of F1-ATPase-γ-ps:GFP (pFAγ:GFP) was described previously (CITATION). PSs of pNDS8B and pFAβ were isolated by PCR using a forward primer containing the first 20 bases of the PS and a reverse primer containing last 20 bases of the PS and 15 bases corresponding to the N-terminal five amino acids of GFP. The PCR product containing the PS was fused to GFP by PCR using the forward and nos-t primers. The PCR-based mutagenesis approach was used to generate various substitution or deletion mutations in the PS of FAγ as described previously (CITATION). Two complementary forward and reverse primers were designed for each mutant (see Supplemental Table 1 online). Using these primers, the first round of PCR was performed to generate 5′ and 3′ fragments, using pFAγ:GFP as a template. The 5′ fragments were amplified using the reverse primers and the common cauliflower mosaic virus 5′ primer. The 3′ fragments were amplified using the forward primers and the common nos terminator (nos-t) primer. The second round of PCR was performed using the primers cauliflower mosaic virus 5′ and nos-t with the 5′ and 3′ PCR products from the first round as templates. For Ala substitution mutations in two 5–amino acid subdivisions, the appropriate individual 5–amino acid subdivision mutants were used as templates. The mutations were introduced as described above for the individual 5–amino acid subdivision mutants. The PCR products were subcloned into a pUC-based expression vector (CITATION), and the sequences were confirmed by nucleotide sequencing. Full-length sequence of pFAγ was amplified by PCR using primers FAγ-F1 and FAγ-R1. The PCR product was subcloned into a pUC-based expression vector containing T7 promoter and nos terminator, and the sequences were confirmed by sequencing. All plasmid constructs were purified using a plasmid purification kit (Qiagen) according to the manufacturer’s protocol. Polyethylene glycol–mediated transformation was used to introduce the plasmids into protoplasts prepared from Arabidopsis leaf tissues (CITATION; (CITATION). Images were taken using a cooled charge-coupled device camera and a Zeiss Axioplan fluorescence microscope and presented in pseudocolor format (CITATION). For Mitotracker staining, the transformed protoplasts were incubated in W5 media (154 mM NaCl, 125 mM CaCl2, 5 mM KCl, 5 mM Glc, and 1.5 mM MES, pH 5.6) containing 100 nM MitoTracker Red (Molecular Probes) in the dark for 10 min. After staining, the protoplasts were washed twice with fresh W5 media and observed with a fluorescence microscope after 2 h of incubation. Immunohistochemistry was performed as described previously (CITATION). Transformed protoplasts stained with MitoTracker Red were placed on poly-l-Lys–coated glass slides and fixed by 3% paraformaldehyde. The fixed protoplasts were washed with TSW buffer (10 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.4, 0.9% NaCl, 0.25% gelatin, 0.02% SDS, and 0.1% Triton X-100) three times and incubated with an anti-GFP antibody (Calbiochem) for 12 h at 4°C. The protoplasts were then washed and incubated with fluorescein isothiocyanate–conjugated goat anti-mouse IgG (Sigma-Aldrich) for 2 h at room temperature. Protein extracts were prepared from transformed protoplasts as described previously (CITATION). Monoclonal anti-GFP (Calbiochem) or rabbit polyclonal anti-GFP antibodies (Bio-App) were used as the primary antibody to detect GFP proteins. The amount of proteins on the immunoblots was quantified by measuring the band intensity using Multi-gauge (LAS 3000) and ImageJ. Transformed protoplasts were harvested and suspended in sonication buffer (20 mM Tris-HCl, 2.5 mM MgCl2, 2 mM EGTA, 1 mM EDTA, and 160 mM NaCl). Cellular membranes were disrupted by sonication. After discarding debris, the soluble fractions were subjected to ultracentrifugation at 100,000g for 1 h. Soluble and pellet fractions were collected separately and placed in denaturation buffer (2.5% SDS and 2% β-mercaptoethanol). Anti-porin (Calbiochem), anti-AALP (CITATION), and anti-IDH antibodies (Agrisera) were used to confirm the separation of the membrane, soluble, and mitochondrial matrix proteins, respectively. Protoplasts were collected in microtubes and gently lysed in HMS buffer (330 mM sorbitol, 50 mM HEPES-KOH, pH 7.6, and 3 mM MgCl2) by pipetting 15 times. Thermolysin (0.5 μM) (Sigma-Aldrich) was added to each sample as described previously (Forke et al., 2003; CITATION), and the samples were incubated for 30 min on ice. In addition, samples were treated with 0.5% Triton X-100 to solubilize the mitochondrial membranes. Subsequently, the protein extracts were analyzed by immunoblotting using the anti-GFP antibody. The sequences of nuclear-encoded mitochondrial proteins from Arabidopsis were obtained from the SWISS-PROT database (2011-06 release, UniProt Consortium). From these sequences, we selected 198 mitochondrial proteins (see Supplemental Data Sets 1 and 2 online) that had been confirmed to be located in the mitochondrial matrix or inner membrane. A global sequence alignment between the PSs of these proteins and two sequence motifs was performed as described previously (CITATION). [35S]Met-labeled precursors were synthesized using rabbit reticulocyte TNT in vitro transcription/translation lysate (Promega) as described previously (CITATION). In vitro import experiments using MT from the leaf tissues of wild-type Arabidopsis plants were performed as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). Protein samples separated by SDS-PAGE were detected as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). The radiolabeled proteins were detected by a BAS 2500 and imaging plate (FUJIFILM). Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: pFAγ, At2g33040; pNDS8B, At1g16700; and pFAβ, At5g08690. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. The N-Terminal 57 Amino Acids Are Sufficient to Target GFP to the Mitochondrial Matrix. Supplemental Figure 2. Subcellular Fractionation of pFAγ[P5A]:GFP after Thermolysin Treatment. Supplemental Figure 3. In Vitro Import Efficiency of Precursors into Mitochondria. Supplemental Figure 4. Secondary Structure Prediction Using Psi-pred. Supplemental Figure 5. Localization of pFAγ[ΔP4]:GFP in Protoplasts. Supplemental Figure 6. Import Efficiency of Partial Substitution Mutants of DQEEG or VVRNR Motifs. Supplemental Figure 7. Protein Import of pFAγ:GFP in tom20 Single Knockout and mtom64 Knockout Plants. Supplemental Table 1. Primers Used for the PCR-Based Mutagenesis. Supplemental Data Set 1. Global Alignment of the DQEEG Motif with 173 Arabidopsis Mitochondrial PSs. Supplemental Data Set 2. Global Alignment of the VVRNR Motif with 167 Arabidopsis Mitochondrial PSs. Supplemental Data Set 3. Hydrophobicity of Residues in pFAγ and Its Ala Substitution Mutant.
