!~ABS~! ADP-ribosylation factor1 (Arf1), a member of the small GTP-binding proteins, plays a pivotal role in protein trafficking to multiple organelles. In its GDP-bound form, Arf1 is recruited from the cytosol to organelle membranes, where it functions in vesicle-mediated protein trafficking. However, the mechanism of Arf1-GDP recruitment remains unknown. Here, we provide evidence that two Glo3p-type Arf GTPase-activating proteins (ArfGAPs), ArfGAP domain8 (AGD8) and AGD9, are involved in the recruitment of Arf1-GDP to the Golgi apparatus in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). RNA interference plants expressing low levels of AGD8 and AGD9 exhibited abnormal Golgi morphology, inhibition of protein trafficking, and arrest of plant growth and development. In RNA interference plants, Arf1 was poorly recruited to the Golgi apparatus. Conversely, high levels of AGD8 and AGD9 induced Arf1 accumulation at the Golgi and suppressed Golgi disruption and inhibition of vacuolar trafficking that was caused by overexpression of AGD7. Based on these results, we propose that the Glo3p-type ArfGAPs AGD8 and AGD9 recruit Arf1-GDP from the cytosol to the Golgi for Arf1-mediated protein trafficking, which is essential for plant development and growth.
!~RES~! The large number of AGDs in Arabidopsis can be classified into six subfamilies according to their sequence homology (Supplemental Fig. S1). To obtain insight into the physiological roles of AGDs, we focused on one subfamily that contains three AGD isoforms, AGD8, AGD9, and AGD10. They exhibit the closest relationship to the Glo3p-type ArfGAPs that are involved in COPI vesicle biogenesis at the Golgi apparatus (CITATION; CITATION). The public microarray data revealed that AGD8 and AGD9 are expressed at high levels in most tissues, whereas AGD10 is strongly expressed in stamens, moderately in root xylem cells, but virtually undetectable in other tissues (Supplemental Fig. S2; www.genevestigator.com). We screened Arabidopsis mutants that had transfer DNA (T-DNA) insertions in AGD8 and AGD9 (Fig. 1, A and B). The lack of AGD8 and AGD9 transcripts in the mutants was confirmed by reverse transcription (RT)-PCR and quantitative reverse transcription (qRT)-PCR (Fig. 1, C and D). The expression of AGD10 was greatly induced in agd9 mutants, suggesting that the lack of AGD9 expression somehow resulted in the induction of AGD10 expression in a compensatory manner. The mutants agd8 and agd9 did not exhibit any noticeable phenotypes (Fig. 1E), which may result from a functional redundancy of AGD8, AGD9, and AGD10, similar to what has been observed for ArfGAP1, ArfGAP2, and ArfGAP3 in animal cells (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Accordingly, agd8/agd9 double mutant plants were screened from F2 progeny from the cross of the adg8 (male) and agd9 (female) single homozygote mutants. However, after screening greater than 200 F2 plants, no double homozygotes were obtained. This raised the possibility that the homozygotes of the agd8/agd9 double mutant are lethal. To test this hypothesis, individual F2 plants from the cross of the agd8 and agd9 single mutants were examined for their genotype by the PCR approach and allowed to self-pollinate. Their siliques, representing various genotypes, were examined for seed production. In support of this hypothesis, 31% of the ovules were aborted in the siliques of self-pollinated F2 plants with the genotype AGD8/agd8;agd9/agd9 (Fig. 1, F–H). Similar to that of the heterozygous/homozygous double mutant for AGD8/AGD9, the agd8/agd8;AGD9/agd9 mutant produced 28% aborted seeds in siliques of self-pollinated F2 plants. In contrast, the abortion rate in wild-type plants or heterozygote plants for both loci (AGD8/agd8;AGD9/agd9) was almost negligible. This result indicates that AGD8 and AGD9 are functionally redundant and play essential roles in plant development. As a result to investigate the physiological role of Glo3p-type ArfGAPs in Arabidopsis, transgenic RNA interference (RNAi) plants were generated that have low expression levels of AGD8 and AGD9, the two abundantly expressed Glo3p-type ArfGAPs (CITATION). To simultaneously knock down both AGD8 and AGD9 transcripts, a 421-bp fragment of AGD9 that contained a high degree of nucleotide sequence homology to AGD8 was used (Supplemental Fig. S3). This fragment was placed under the control of the dexamethasone (dex)-inducible promoter (CITATION). The resulting RNAi construct was cloned into a binary vector and used to generate transgenic plants (RNAi plants). Multiple independent lines were obtained, and their phenotypes were examined in the presence and absence of dex. The RNAi plants did not display any noticeable phenotypes in the absence of dex (Fig. 2A). However, when placed on plates containing 30 μm dex, multiple lines of RNAi plants germinated but failed to develop into mature plants (Fig. 2A). In contrast, wild-type plants germinated and developed normally regardless of dex treatment. qRT-PCR was used to analyze the RNA levels of various AGD isoform genes in the RNAi plants. The transcript levels of AGD9 gradually decreased in dex-treated RNAi plants with increasing time. Similarly, the AGD8 transcript levels were significantly reduced with time, albeit to a slightly lesser degree. The transcript levels of AGD10 also were greatly reduced in dex-treated RNAi plants. In contrast, the transcript levels of AGD4 and AGD7 that belong to two different subfamilies of the AGD family were barely or slightly reduced in the dex-treated RNAi plants, respectively, suggesting that the AGD9 RNAi construct is specific to the members of the Glo3p-type ArfGAP subfamily among AGD isoforms (Fig. 2B). These results are consistent with the inability to generate a double homozygous agd8/agd9 mutant. In comparison with other adg mutants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), the RNAi plants displayed a much more severe phenotype, raising the possibility that AGD8/AGD9 are involved in more general physiological processes that are necessary for plant growth and development. [[FIGURE]] To gain an insight into the physiological role of these proteins, we initially determined the subcellular localization of AGD8/AGD9. Previous studies in Arabidopsis show that two other isoforms (AGD5 and AGD7) localize to the trans-Golgi network (TGN) and Golgi apparatus, respectively (CITATION; CITATION). AGD8 and AGD9 were fused to the human influenza hemagglutinin (HA) epitope (YPYDVPDYA). HA-AGD8 and HA-AGD9 under the control of their native promoters were transformed into wild-type plants or transgenic plants expressing ST-GFP, a chimeric fusion construct between rat sialyltransferase (ST) and GFP that localizes to the Golgi apparatus (CITATION). In root tissues of transgenic plants, both HA-AGD8 and HA-AGD9 produced punctate staining patterns that closely overlapped with those of stably expressed ST-GFP when detected by using an HA antibody (Fig. 3A). To quantify the degree of overlap between HA-AGD8/AGD9 and ST-GFP, the images from a microscope were subject to Pearson-Spearman correlation (PSC) colocalization analysis (CITATION), and scatterplots of fluorescence pixels across the two channels were obtained. The scatterplots together with the PSC coefficient values of 0.61/0.59 and 0.70/0.64 for colocalization between ST-GFP and HA-AGD8 or AGD9, respectively, confirmed that HA-AGD8 and HA-AGD9 colocalize with ST-GFP (Fig. 3A, scatterplots). The PSC coefficient values range from −1 to +1 for strong negative and positive correlation, respectively. Next, we compared the localization of HA-AGD8 and HA-AGD9 with the prevacuolar compartment (PVC)-localized SYP21 or TGN-localized SYP61 detected with SYP21 and SYP61 antibodies (CITATION, CITATION). Neither HA-AGD8 nor HA-AGD9 colocalized with SYP21 or SYP61 (Fig. 3B), consistent with the notion that they do localize to the Golgi apparatus. Again, the degree of overlap was tested by the PSC colocalization analysis. The scatterplots for the colocalization of HA-AGD8 or HA-AGD9 with PVC-localized SYP21 or TGN-localized SYP61 show a separated distribution pattern of two fluorescence pixels and gave the PSC coefficient value close to 0 (Fig. 3B, scatterplots), indicating that AGD8 and AGD9 do not localize to the TGN or PVC. Expression of HA-AGD8 and HA-AGD9 in these transgenic plants was confirmed by western-blot analysis using the HA antibody (Fig. 3B). [[FIGURE]] To further confirm their localization at the single cell level, protoplasts from transgenic plants expressing HA-AGD8 or HA-AGD9 were immunostained with an HA antibody. Both proteins produced punctate staining patterns in protoplasts, as observed in intact tissues (Fig. 3C). Next, we compared their localization with other Golgi proteins in protoplasts. As Golgi proteins, we used transiently expressed ST-GFP (CITATION), KAM1ΔC-mRFP (a chimeric protein consisting of KATAMARI1 with a C-terminal deletion and monomeric red fluorescent protein; CITATION), and endogenous γ-COP, a component of COPI, detected by γ-COP antibody (CITATION). In protoplasts, both HA-AGD8 and HA-AGD9 that had been expressed in transgenic plants closely overlapped with transiently expressed ST-GFP (Fig. 3C). Furthermore, HA-AGD9 colocalized with endogenous γ-COP (Fig. 3C). The colocalization of HA-AGD8/AGD9 with Golgi markers was confirmed by the PSC colocalization analysis. Together, these results confirmed that both HA-AGD8 and HA-AGD9 localize to the Golgi apparatus. Next, we examined the localization of transiently expressed HA-AGD8 and HA-AGD9 in protoplasts, since we wanted to examine their behavior after transient expression in protoplasts (Figs. 4 and 5). It has been thought that the transient expression of proteins in protoplasts could lead to mislocalization due to possible overexpression (CITATION). First, HA-AGD8 or HA-AGD9 was transformed into wild-type protoplasts together with ST-GFP, and their localization was examined. Both transiently expressed HA-AGD8 and HA-AGD9 produced punctate staining patterns that closely overlapped with those of ST-GFP (Fig. 3C). Moreover, transiently expressed HA-AGD8 closely overlapped with endogenous γ-COP at the Golgi apparatus (Supplemental Fig. S4). Together, these results confirmed that transiently expressed HA-AGD8 and HA-AGD9 also localize to the Golgi apparatus. Their localization to the Golgi is similar to that of ArfGAP2/ArfGAP3 in animal cells (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The successful localization of AGD8/AGD9 to the Golgi apparatus encouraged us to examine whether lower levels of AGD8/AGD9 in RNAi plants had any effect on the Golgi apparatus. RNAi plants and control plants (pTA plants) harboring the empty vector pTA7002 were grown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium and then transplanted onto MS plates supplemented with dex (CITATION). Two days after transplanting, the root tissues were immunostained with γ-COP antibody. In pTA plants, γ-COP antibody produced numerous punctae (Fig. 4A). In contrast, γ-COP antibody in the RNAi plants displayed a diffuse staining pattern and fewer punctae (Fig. 4A). The number of punctae in the RNAi plants was reduced to 30% of the level in pTA plants (Fig. 4B), raising an intriguing possibility that the Golgi apparatus is disassembled in RNAi plants. This is in contrast to previous studies on other ArfGAPs, where overexpression of ArfGAP1 and AGD7 in animal and Arabidopsis cells, respectively, caused disassembly of the Golgi apparatus (CITATION; CITATION). To confirm this observation, ultrathin sections of root tissue were cut from RNAi and pTA plants that had been treated with or without dex for 4 d and examined for the presence and morphology of the Golgi apparatus by electron microscopy. In control plants (Fig. 4C, pTA+Dex and RNAi-1+DMSO [for dimethyl sulfoxide]), the Golgi apparatus exhibited a normal morphology with five to six stacks. However, in dex-treated RNAi plants, the Golgi apparatus contained only one or two stacks (Fig. 4C, RNAi-1+Dex), indicating that the Golgi apparatus is partially disassembled in dex-treated RNAi plants. These results suggest that normal AGD8 and AGD9 levels are crucial for the maintenance of the Golgi morphology. A previous study in animal cells demonstrated that knockdown of both ArfGAP2 and ArfGAP3 in animal cells caused similar alterations in Golgi morphology (CITATION). Thus, it is possible that AGD8 and AGD9 are functional orthologs of the Glo3p-type ArfGAPs in animal cells, ArfGAP2/ArfGAP3. To functionally confirm the Golgi defect in the RNAi plants, protein trafficking in the RNAi plants was examined. If AGD8/AGD9 are Arabidopsis orthologs of Glo3p-type ArfGAPs, they are likely to be involved in a COPI-related process (i.e. in retrograde Golgi-to-endoplasmic reticulum trafficking), as observed for Glo3p ArfGAPs (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). However, it is technically very difficult to monitor retrograde trafficking in plant cells. Instead, the functionality of the Golgi apparatus was tested by vacuolar trafficking because vacuolar proteins are transported through the Golgi apparatus on their way from the endoplasmic reticulum to the vacuole. For vacuolar cargo, we used sporamin-GFP, a fusion protein between the sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas) protein sporamin and GFP that is targeted to the vacuole and processed to produce the GFP fragment (CITATION). Protoplasts from the RNAi plants were transformed with sporamin-GFP and incubated with or without dex. Sporamin-GFP trafficking to the vacuole was examined by western-blot analysis using a GFP antibody (CITATION; CITATION). Wild-type protoplasts were included in the analysis. In dex-treated RNAi protoplasts, the efficiency of protein trafficking was 40%, compared with 85% in dex-untreated RNAi or wild-type protoplasts at 48 h after transformation (Fig. 4, D and E), supporting the notion that the dex-treated RNAi plants contain a functionally defective Golgi apparatus. To gain an insight into the underlying mechanism of how the lower levels of AGD8/AGD9 cause a defect in Golgi morphology and a perturbation of vacuolar trafficking, in a reverse approach to the RNAi plants, we examined the effect of AGD8/AGD9 overexpression on the Golgi apparatus. Previous studies demonstrated that overexpression of ArfGAPs such as ArfGAP1 and AGD7 caused disassembly of the Golgi apparatus (CITATION; CITATION). For this experiment, we took advantage of the protoplast system in which protein levels can be easily increased by increasing the amount of plasmid DNA introduced into protoplasts (CITATION; CITATION). ST-GFP was cotransformed into protoplasts together with increasing amounts of HA-AGD8, and the localization of ST-GFP was examined in protoplasts. Regardless of the expression levels, HA-AGD8 overexpression did not alter the punctate staining pattern of ST-GFP (Fig. 5A). In contrast, as reported previously (CITATION), ST-GFP produced a diffuse pattern with a gradual decrease in the number of punctae with increasing amounts of HA-AGD7 (Fig. 5, B and C). The expression levels of HA-AGD8 and HA-AGD7 were determined by western-blot analysis using an HA antibody (Fig. 5, D and E). In fact, the protein levels of HA-AGD8 were 2- to 3-fold higher than those of HA-AGD7 at the same amounts of plasmid DNA in protoplasts. Similar to HA-AGD8, HA-AGD9 did not affect the localization pattern of ST-GFP (Fig. 5F). This result raises the possibility that the physiological role of AGD8/AGD9 is different from that of AGD7. Arf1 plays a crucial role in the maintenance of the Golgi apparatus (CITATION; CITATION). To gain insight into the molecular mechanisms of AGD8/AGD9 that underlie their roles in the maintenance of the Golgi apparatus at the biochemical level, we examined whether these proteins interact with Arf1 by coimmunoprecipitation experiments. Arf1-HA or Arf1[T31N]-HA was cotransformed into protoplasts together with GFP-AGD7 or GFP-AGD8, and protein extracts from transformed protoplasts were used for immunoprecipitation with a GFP antibody. The immunoprecipitates were analyzed by western blotting using HA and GFP antibodies. GFP-AGD7 was included as a positive control. As reported previously (CITATION), Arf1-HA was detected in the immunoprecipitates obtained with GFP-AGD7 (Fig. 6A). Arf1-HA was detected in the immunoprecipitates obtained with GFP-AGD8, indicating that both AGD7 and AGD8 interact with Arf1. HA-Arf1[T31N] coprecipitated with both GFP-AGD7 and GFP-AGD8, indicating that both AGD7 and AGD8 interact with Arf1[T31N]. [[FIGURE]] To further confirm and characterize this interaction at the cellular level in vivo, we examined the interaction of AGD7 and AGD8 with Arf1 via a bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) approach (CITATION; CITATION). To reduce the nonspecific background signals in the BiFC experiments, the C-terminal half of cyan fluorescent protein (cCFP) and the N-terminal half of the GFP variant Venus (nVN) were used (CITATION). AGD8-HA was fused to the C terminus of nVN. AGD7-HA was included as a control. Arf1 and Arf1[T31N] were fused to the N terminus of cCFP. Arf1[T31N], the GDP-bound form of Arf1 (CITATION), was used as a control for the interaction between Arf1 and AGD8. As a negative control, cCFP was tagged with a small epitope T7 at the N terminus. Again, we relied on the transient expression of these proteins in protoplasts because transiently expressed HA-AGD8 and HA-AGD9 properly localized to the Golgi apparatus in protoplasts. nVN-AGD8-HA or nVN-AGD7-HA was introduced into protoplasts together with Arf1-cCFP, Arf1[T31N]-cCFP, or T7-cCFP. The amount of nVN-AGD7-HA and nVN-AGD8-HA introduced into protoplasts was carefully controlled because AGD7 overexpression induces disassembly of the Golgi apparatus (CITATION). The control protoplasts (T7-cCFP + nVN-AGD8-HA or T7-cCFP + nVN-AGD7-HA) did not display any signals (Fig. 6B), confirming that nonspecific interactions between cCFP and nVN were undetectable. When Arf1-cCFP was introduced into protoplasts together with nVN-AGD7-HA or nVN-AGD8-HA, strong BiFC signals were observed as punctate staining patterns in the protoplasts together with weak cytosolic signals (Fig. 6B). Next, Arf1[T31N]-cCFP, the GDP-bound form, was cotransformed into protoplasts together with nVN-AGD7-HA or nVN-AGD8-HA, and BiFC signals were examined. The protoplasts cotransformed with Arf1[T31N]-cCFP and nVN-AGD7-HA produced diffuse cytosolic patterns but did not show any punctate BiFC signals, indicating that Arf1[T31N] and AGD7 may interact in the cytosol but not at the Golgi apparatus. Unexpectedly, protoplasts cotransformed with Arf1[T31N]-cCFP and nVN-AGD8-HA produced strong punctate staining patterns, raising the possibility that AGD8 binds to GDP-bound Arf1 at the Golgi apparatus. However, this interaction between AGD8 and Arf1[T31N] at the Golgi apparatus is not consistent with current ideas about the role of ArfGAPs, which can be demonstrated by the fact that ectopic expression of Arf1[T31N] causes disassembly of the Golgi apparatus (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To confirm the expression of these constructs in protoplasts, protein extracts from transformed protoplasts were analyzed by western blotting using HA and GFP antibodies. As expected, all these proteins were expressed at comparable levels (Fig. 6C). During cycling between the GDP- and GTP-bound forms, Arf1-GDP transiently localizes to the Golgi membrane, where the bound GDP is replaced with GTP by a GEF (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Thus, it is possible that AGD8/AGD9 are involved in the recruitment of GDP-bound Arf1 to the Golgi apparatus. To test for this possibility, the GDP-bound form of Arf1, Arf1[T31N], was fused to superfolder GFP (sGFP), and the resulting construct, Arf1[T31N]-sGFP, was introduced into protoplasts alone or together with HA-AGD7, HA-AGD8, or HA-AGD9, and then the localization of Arf1[T31N]-sGFP was examined. A previous study demonstrated that Arf1[T31N], a dominant negative mutant form of Arf1, caused disassembly of the Golgi apparatus in plant cells (CITATION; CITATION). Moreover, protoplasts expressing Arf1[T31N]-sGFP alone produced a diffuse pattern (Fig. 7A). Coexpression of HA-AGD7 did not change the diffuse pattern of Arf1[T31N]-sGFP in protoplasts. However, in the presence of HA-AGD8 or HA-AGD9, Arf1[T31N]-sGFP primarily produced the punctate staining patterns and weak cytosolic patterns, indicating that the majority of Arf1[T31N]-sGFP localizes to the Golgi apparatus. This confirms that high levels of AGD8/AGD9 cause the accumulation of Arf1[T31N] at the Golgi apparatus. Expression of HA-AGD7, HA-AGD8, and HA-AGD9 was confirmed by western-blot analysis using an HA antibody (Fig. 7B). The localization of Arf1[T31N] to the Golgi apparatus contradicted the previous results showing that overexpression of Arf1[T31N] causes disassembly of the Golgi apparatus in plant cells (CITATION; CITATION). However, it should be noted that wild-type protoplasts should contain endogenous Arf1, and when Arf1[T31N] is ectopically expressed in protoplasts, the effect observed should be the result of competition between endogenous Arf1 and ectopically expressed Arf1[T31N]. Therefore, the disassembly of the Golgi apparatus should be highly dependent on the concentration of Arf1[T31N]. One possible explanation for the presence of the Golgi apparatus in protoplasts expressing Arf1[T31N]-sGFP is that the effective concentration of Arf1[T31N]-sGFP in the protoplasts coexpressing AGD8 or AGD9 should be lower that of Arf1[T31N]-sGFP in the absence of AGD8/AGD9, because these AGDs bind to Arf1[T31N] (Fig. 7), which in turn results in prevention of the Golgi disruption to a certain extent. In addition, there could be other mechanisms for the protection of the Golgi. In yeast cells, Glo3p-type Arf1 GAP was identified as a high-copy suppressor of temperature-sensitive arf1-3, a GDP-bound dominant negative mutant (CITATION). This is very much reminiscent of the effect we observed with AGD8/AGD9 in protoplasts. Furthermore, Glo3p-type ArfGAPs interact with coat proteins through the C-terminal domain. Therefore, overexpression of Glo3p-type ArfGAPs may bring coat proteins to the Golgi apparatus, which in turn results in protection of the Golgi even in the presence of Arf1[T31N]. [[FIGURE]] To obtain more direct evidence that AGD8/AGD9 are involved in recruiting Arf1-GDP to the Golgi apparatus, the targeting rate of Arf1 to the Golgi apparatus was examined in wild-type, agd8, agd9, and RNAi plants using fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP) with Arf1-sGFP (CITATION). First, localization of Arf1-sGFP to the Golgi apparatus was examined in protoplasts. Protoplasts from wild-type plants were cotransformed with Arf1-sGFP and KAM1ΔC-mRFP, and localization of these proteins was examined. Both Arf1-sGFP and KAM1ΔC-mRFP produced punctate staining patterns that closely overlapped (Fig. 8A), confirming that Arf1-sGFP primarily localizes to the Golgi apparatus in protoplasts from leaf tissues. A minor portion of Arf1-sGFP did not colocalize with KAM1ΔC-mRFP, suggesting that a minor pool of Arf1 may localize in the cytosol or to other organelles. Based on this finding, FRAP experiments were performed using protoplasts from wild-type or RNAi plants that were cotransformed with Arf1-sGFP and KAM1ΔC-mRFP and incubated with dex or DMSO for 20 h. The punctae where both Arf1-sGFP and KAM1ΔC-mRFP colocalized were then photobleached using a laser. Subsequently, the time course of recovery of Arf1-sGFP localization to the Golgi apparatus was examined (Fig. 8B, boxed areas). The half-recovery times were 39, 15.6, and 18 s in dex-treated RNAi plants, DMSO-treated RNAi plants, and dex-treated wild-type plants, respectively. Thus, the recovery time in dex-treated RNAi plants was delayed by more than 2-fold with respect to the recovery time of dex-treated wild-type or DMSO-treated RNAi plants (Fig. 8C). These results confirm the idea that AGD8/AGD9 are involved in the targeting of Arf1 to the Golgi apparatus. As controls, agd8 or agd9 mutant plants without dex or DMSO treatment were included in the FRAP analysis. The half-recovery times in adg8 and agd9 plants were 16.2 and 19 s, respectively (Fig. 8D), indicating that the recovery time in these mutants is not significantly different from that of wild-type plants. [[FIGURE]] Overexpression of AGD7 causes disassembly of the Golgi apparatus through premature hydrolysis of GTP bound to Arf1 and results in an inhibition of vacuolar trafficking (CITATION). Thus, we tested whether the overexpression of AGD8 prevents the Golgi disassembly caused by AGD7 overexpression. ST-GFP and HA-AGD7 were cotransformed into protoplasts with or without T7-AGD8, and the localization of ST-GFP was examined. In protoplasts expressing only HA-AGD7, ST-GFP produced a network pattern, an indication of its localization to the endoplasmic reticulum, that resulted from disassembly of the Golgi apparatus as demonstrated previously (CITATION). In contrast, in protoplasts expressing both T7-AGD8 and HA-AGD7, ST-GFP exhibited primarily the punctate staining pattern (Fig. 9, A and B), indicating that the overexpression of AGD8 suppressed the AGD7-induced Golgi disassembly. To confirm this at the functional level, we determined the trafficking efficiency of sporamin-GFP to the vacuole in the presence of AGD7 alone or together with AGD8. Increasing amounts of T7-AGD8 were introduced into protoplasts together with HA-AGD7 and sporamin-GFP, and the vacuolar trafficking efficiency of sporamin-GFP was examined by western-blot analysis using a GFP antibody (CITATION). As observed previously (CITATION), expression of HA-AGD7 caused a reduction in the vacuolar trafficking efficiency of sporamin-GFP (from 70% down to 40%) compared with control protoplasts without HA-AGD7 at 24 h after transformation (Fig. 9, C and D). However, in protoplasts coexpressing both HA-AGD7 and T7-AGD8, the trafficking efficiency of sporamin-GFP to the vacuole increased gradually with increasing amounts of T7-AGD8 (Fig. 9, C and D). These results support the notion that overexpression of T7-AGD8 suppressed HA-AGD7-induced Golgi disassembly, thereby resulting in an increase in the trafficking efficiency of sporamin-GFP to the vacuole. Of course, we cannot completely exclude the possibility that overexpression of AGD8 activates a Golgi-independent route for the trafficking of sporamin-GFP to the vacuole. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia) was grown on MS plates at 22°C in a culture room or in a greenhouse under conditions of 70% relative humidity and a 16/8-h light/dark cycle. The generation of transgenic plants expressing ST-GFP was described previously (CITATION). The construction of Arf1[T31N] has been described previously (CITATION). The AGD8 (GenBank accession no. AF360177) complementary DNA was amplified via PCR using the primers AGD8-5 and AGD8-3. AGD9 (GenBank accession no. AY099693) was amplified via PCR using the primers AGD9-5 and AGD9-3 To tag AGD8 with a small epitope T7 (with amino acid sequence MASMTGGQQMG) at the N terminus, AGD8 was inserted into the pET21a vector (Novagen) using EcoRI and SalI sites, and subsequently, T7-AGD8 was placed under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter in a pUC vector using XbaI and SalI sites (CITATION; CITATION). To generate HA-AGD8 and HA-AGD9, AGD8 and AGD9 were amplified by PCR using primer sets Sma-AGD8-5/Xho-AGD8-3 and Sma-AGD9-5/Xho-AGD9-3, respectively. The resulting PCR products were ligated to a plasmid that contains the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and the epitope HA after digestion with SmaI and XhoI. The Arf1-sGFP and Arf1[T31N]-sGFP constructs were generated by incorporating Arf1 without the termination codon into the N terminus of sGFP. The HA tag was added to Arf1 and Arf1[T31N] by two sequential PCRs, first with primers HA-3-1 and 35S-p and then with primers HA-3-2 and 35S-p. To generate GFP-AGD8, the AGD8 fragment amplified by PCR using primers Sma-AGD8-5 and Xho-AGD8-3 was ligated to the C terminus of GFP without the termination codon. The constructs used for BiFC experiments were generated using Venus, a variant of yellow fluorescent protein, and cyan fluorescent protein, a variant of GFP (CITATION). Briefly, the N-terminal region (VN) of Venus was amplified using specific primers Xba-VN-5 and Sma-VN-3. The resulting PCR product was fused to the N termini of AGD7 or AGD8 using XbaI and SmaI restriction sites. Subsequently, VN-AGD7 and VN-AGD8 were digested with XbaI and HpaI and ligated to an identically digested C-terminal HA-tagging vector. cCFP was amplified using the specific primers Bam-cCFP-5 and Xho-CFP-3. The resulting PCR product was ligated to the C termini of Arf1 or Arf1[T31N] after digesting with BamHI and ScaI. T7-cCFP was generated by replacing AGD8 of T7-AGD8 with cCFP of Arf1-cCFP. The sequences of primers are shown in Supplemental Table S1. All PCR products were sequenced. To generate RNAi plants suppressing both AGD8 and AGD9, an RNAi construct was generated using a 421-bp fragment of AGD9 that shows a high degree of sequence homology to AGD8. The 421-bp AGD9 fragment was amplified by PCR using two sets of primers, Bam-RNAi-5/Cla-RNAi-3 and Xho-RNAi-5/Kpn-RNAi-3. The two amplified products were introduced sequentially into the BamHI/ClaI sites and XhoI/KpnI sites of RNAi vector pHannibal (CITATION). The AGD9 RNAi construct in the pHannibal vector was then transferred to pTA7002, a dex-inducible binary vector. RNAi transgenic plants were generated by the floral dip method (CITATION). To induce expression of the AGD9 fragment in RNAi plants, RNAi transgenic plants grown on MS plates were transferred onto dex (30 μm)-containing plates. Total RNAs from the RNAi transgenic plants were prepared using the RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen). Complementary DNA was prepared with the SuperScript II reverse transcriptase kit (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. To quantify gene expression levels in RNAi, wild-type, and mutant plants, the StepOne and StepOnePlus real-time PCR systems (Applied Biosystems) were used with Power SYBR Green PCR master mix (Applied Biosystems). The data were analyzed with StepOne software version 2.1 using the 2-ΔΔCT method (CITATION). Amplified 18S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) fragments (primers 18S-f-2 and 18S-r-2) were used as endogenous controls to normalize the expression of the tested genes. AGD4, AGD7, AGD8, AGD9, and AGD10 transcript levels in wild-type, agd8, and agd9 plants were determined using specific primers: AGD4-f and AGD4-r for AGD4; AGD7-f and AGD7-r for AGD7; AGD8-f and AGD8-r for AGD8; AGD9-f and AGD9-r for AGD9; and AGD10-f and AGD10-r for AGD10 (Supplemental Table S1). Arabidopsis mutants agd8 (SALK-053104) and agd9 (SAIL-660_G01) containing T-DNA insertions in AGD8 and AGD9, respectively, were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (Ohio State University). Homozygotes of the agd8 and agd9 mutants were screened by PCR-based genotyping using left border primers (LB for the SALK line and LB1 for the SAIL line) and gene-specific primers (forward primer of AGD8, FP-AGD8; reverse primer of AGD8, RP-AGD8; forward primer of AGD9, FP-AGD9; reverse primer of AGD9, RP-AGD9). For transient expression experiments in protoplasts (subcellular localization and BiFC), plasmid DNA was purified using the Qiagen column and was then transformed into protoplasts derived from leaf tissues (CITATION). Protein extracts were prepared from transformed protoplasts and used for western-blot analysis using anti-GFP (Bio-Application) and anti-HA (Roche) antibodies as described previously (CITATION). Protein extracts in immunoprecipitation buffer (150 mm KCl, 20 mm HEPES, pH 7.4, 1 mm MgCl2, 0.2% Triton X-100, 0.2% Nonidet P-40, 1 mm dithiothreitol, 1 mm EGTA, and 1× protease inhibitor cocktail) were incubated at 4°C for 4 h on a rotating platform with GFP antibody (Invitrogen) and protein A-Sepharose beads. Immune complexes were isolated using protein A-Sepharose beads. Beads were washed five times with IP buffer. After washing, proteins were released by 10 min of incubation in SDS sample buffer at 98°C and analyzed by western blotting using rat HA (Roche) or GFP (Clontech) antibodies. To prevent movement of the Golgi apparatus, transformed protoplasts were incubated with 25 μm latrunculin B in W5 solution for 1 h prior to photobleaching experiments (CITATION). Cells were visualized using a laser scanning confocal microscope (LSM 510 Meta System; Carl Zeiss). Bundle software (LSM 510 version 3.2) was used to record prebleach and postbleach signals and to modulate laser beam intensity. A DNA fragment containing the AGD8 promoter region (AGD8p; 1.25 kb) was amplified by PCR using primers Pst-up-AGD8-5 and up-AGD8-HA-3, and a DNA fragment containing HA-AGD8 was amplified by PCR using primers HA-5 and Stu-nos-t-3. To generate AGD8p::HA-AGD8, these two DNA fragments were fused by the second round of PCR using primers Pst-up-AGD8-5 and Stu-nos-t-3. AGD9p::HA-AGD9 was constructed in a similar way; the primers were Pst-up-AGD9-5 and up-AGD9-HA-3 for a DNA fragment containing the AGD9 promoter region (2.05 kb), HA-5 and Stu-nos-t-3 for HA-AGD9, and Pst-up-AGD9-5 and Stu-nos-t-3 for the second round of PCR to generate AGD9p::HA-AGD9. The amplified fragments were digested with PstI and StuI and ligated to PstI- and StuI-digested pCR-ccD gateway donor vector (Invitrogen). Inserts of these constructs were introduced into the pCAMVIA1300 binary Gateway vector by LR recombination (Invitrogen). HA-AGD8 and HA-AGD9 under the control of the native promoter were introduced into wild-type or ST-GFP transgenic plants by the floral dip method (CITATION). Protoplasts were allowed to adhere to poly-l-Lys-coated slides (Sigma) for 30 min. Protoplasts were then fixed for 30 min in W6 buffer (10 mm HEPES, pH 7.2, 0.9% NaCl, 125 mm CaCl2, 5 mm KCl, and 5 mm Glc) containing 4% paraformaldehyde, washed three times with W6 buffer, and permeabilized in TSW buffer (10 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.4, 0.9% NaCl, 0.25% gelatin, 0.02% SDS, and 0.1% Triton X-100) for 10 min. Fixed protoplasts were incubated overnight at 4°C in the presence of primary antibodies (T7 antibody, Novagen; rat HA antibody, Roche; γ-COP antibody, Agrisera) in TSW buffer. After four washes in TSW buffer, cells were incubated with secondary antibodies (i.e. fluorescein isothiocyanate [FITC]-conjugated anti-mouse or anti-rat IgG or tetramethyl rhodamine isothiocyanate [TRITC]-conjugated anti-rabbit IgG; Zymed Laboratories) for 1 h at room temperature. After four washes in TSW buffer, cells were mounted in Mowiol (Hoechst) containing 2.5% 1,4-diazobicyclo-[2.2.2]-octane (Sigma). Stained cells were visualized using a Zeiss fluorescence microscope and a laser scanning confocal microscope (Meta System; Zeiss). For immunostaining intact root tissues, transgenic plants (7 d old) were transferred to MS plates supplemented with or without dex (30 μm). Two days after transplanting, plant root tissues were fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde in PEX buffer (5 mm MgSO4, 5 mm EGTA, and 100 mm PIPES, pH 6.8) for 2 h at 4°C, washed three times with PEX buffer, and treated with enzyme solution (2% macerozyme R-10 [Yakult Honsha] and 1% cellulase R-10 [Yakult Honsha]) in PEX buffer for 30 min at 23°C. The partially digested plant root tissues were attached to poly-l-Lys-coated glass slides. For blocking, the slides with plant root tissues were submerged in TSW buffer overnight at 4°C followed by incubation with the primary antibodies (HA antibody, Roche; SYP21 antibody [CITATION], SYP61 antibody [CITATION], and γ-COP antibody, Agrisera) overnight at 4°C. After three washes with TSW buffer, the root tissues were incubated with secondary antibodies (FITC- or TRITC-conjugated anti-rat or anti-rabbit IgG, respectively; Zymed Laboratories). Images were captured using a Zeiss LSM 510 META laser scanning confocal microscope. For observations of mesophyll protoplasts and root tissues, the combinations of excitation wavelength/emission filter were 488 nm (argon/ion laser)/505 to 530 bandpass for GFP and FITC and 543 nm/560 to 615 bandpass for mRFP and TRITC. Images of protoplasts were obtained using a cooled CCD camera and an Axioplan fluorescence microscope (Carl Zeiss). The filter sets were XF116 (exciter, 474AF20; dichroic, 500DRLP; emitter, 510AF23) and XF33/E (exciter, 535DF35; dichroic, 570DRLP; emitter, 605DF50 [Omega]) for GFP/FITC and TRITC, respectively. Red autofluorescence of chlorophyll was observed using filter set Lumar 15 (exciter, 546/12; emitter, LP 590). The data were processed using Adobe Photoshop software, and the images are presented in pseudocolor. To quantify the degree of colocalization of two different proteins on an image, the ImageJ analysis program (CITATION) and the PSC colocalization plug-in software (CITATION) were used. Using these two software programs, we calculated the linear Pearson correlation coefficient and nonlinear Spearman’s rank correlation coefficient of the signal intensity from the green and red channels and obtained a scatterplot with the values of fluorescence pixels across the two channels distributed between PSC coefficient values −1 to +1 for strong negative and positive correlations, respectively. The masking of areas was performed prior to analysis using the selection brush tool (CITATION). The threshold level was set to 10, below which pixel values were considered noise and excluded in the statistical analysis. Five-day-old RNAi or wild-type plants were transferred onto MS plates supplemented with or without dex (30 μm). Four days after transplanting, root tissues were fixed with 2% paraformaldehyde and 2% glutaraldehyde-containing sodium cacodylate buffer (50 mm sodium cacodylate, pH 7.2) at 4°C for 4 h. Samples were washed three times with sodium cacodylate buffer followed by postfixation with 1% osmium tetroxide in sodium cacodylate buffer at 4°C for 2 h. After washing briefly with distilled water, the samples were treated with 0.5% uranyl acetate at 4°C for 30 min, followed by dehydration with a graded series of ethanol. Dehydrated samples were infiltrated with a graded series of ethanol and Spurr’s resin mixtures before final embedding in 100% Spurr’s resin. The infiltrated samples were polymerized at 70°C for 24 h. After ultrathin sectioning with an ultramicrotome (MT-X; RMC), samples were stained with 2% uranyl acetate and Reynolds’ lead citrate and then examined with a transmission electron microscope (JEM-1010; JEOL) operating at 80 kV. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under the following accession numbers: AGD7, NP181291; AGD8, AF36177; AGD9, AY099693; AGD10, AEC09080; and Arf1, AAA32729. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Phylogenetic tree of Arabidopsis GAP domain proteins. Supplemental Figure S2. AGD transcript levels in wild-type plants. Supplemental Figure S3. Nucleotide sequence alignment of AGD8, AGD9, and AGD10. Supplemental Figure S4. Transiently expressed HA-AGD8 and HA-AGD9 localize to the Golgi apparatus. Supplemental Table S1. PCR primers for cloning, generation of various mutants, and confirming of mutant plants.
