!~ABS~! Target of Rapamycin (TOR) is a major nutrition and energy sensor that regulates growth and life span in yeast and animals. In plants, growth and life span are intertwined not only with nutrient acquisition from the soil and nutrition generation via photosynthesis but also with their unique modes of development and differentiation. How TOR functions in these processes has not yet been determined. To gain further insights, rapamycin-sensitive transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana lines (BP12) expressing yeast FK506 Binding Protein12 were developed. Inhibition of TOR in BP12 plants by rapamycin resulted in slower overall root, leaf, and shoot growth and development leading to poor nutrient uptake and light energy utilization. Experimental limitation of nutrient availability and light energy supply in wild-type Arabidopsis produced phenotypes observed with TOR knockdown plants, indicating a link between TOR signaling and nutrition/light energy status. Genetic and physiological studies together with RNA sequencing and metabolite analysis of TOR-suppressed lines revealed that TOR regulates development and life span in Arabidopsis by restructuring cell growth, carbon and nitrogen metabolism, gene expression, and rRNA and protein synthesis. Gain- and loss-of-function Ribosomal Protein S6 (RPS6) mutants additionally show that TOR function involves RPS6-mediated nutrition and light-dependent growth and life span in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! We generated 81 independent transgenic Arabidopsis lines (BP12 lines) by expressing the yeast FKBP12 gene under the control of a constitutive (cauliflower mosaic virus 35S) promoter. None of these lines showed any detectable or visible developmental or growth defects. PCR identification of 29 T1 lines confirmed the presence of FKBP12 in all the lines except line 24 (Figure 1A). From these 28 T1 independent lines, 12 T2 BP12 lines (lines 1 to 12) were selected for rapamycin sensitivity and segregation analysis in the T2 generation. Compared with wild-type plants, all 12 independent BP12 lines were responsive to rapamycin treatment, causing phenotypes including slower plant growth with shorter shoots and roots (see Supplemental Figure 1A online). Copy number for FKBP12 in these 12 lines was verified by DNA gel blots: The BP12-2 line contained a single copy, BP12-1 two copies, BP12-4 and BP12-6 three copies each, and the rest of the transformed lines had multiple copies (Figure 1B). We selected five independent T3 generation lines, BP12-1 to BP12-5, and confirmed the expression of the FKBP12 transcript and corresponding protein in all of them (Figure 1C). Then, seedling growth of BP12-1, BP12-2, BP12-4, and BP12-5 lines was examined in the same plate at incremental rapamycin concentrations, 0.5 to 20 µg/mL in the medium, using 0.5× Murashige and Skoog (MS) containing 1 µg/mL DMSO as controls (Figure 1D). On 0.5× MS + DMSO medium, the seedling growth of these four BP12 lines was similar to wild-type plants grown on 0.5× MS medium (see Supplemental Figure 1B online), confirming that overexpression of FKBP12 does not alter plant growth or development. The growth of wild-type seedlings was no different at 0 or 20 µg/mL rapamycin but clear phenotypes affecting primary root growth, lateral root initiation, cotyledon growth, rosette leaf initiation and expansion, and shoot growth were observed in the four independent transgenic BP12 lines (Figure 1D). The severity of these phenotypes increased with increasing concentrations of rapamycin, with even a dose of 0.5 µg/mL rapamycin being sufficient to observe effects on seedling growth in all the four BP12 lines (Figure 1D). These results clearly indicate that Arabidopsis seedling growth and the observed root and shoot phenotypes are dependent on both the FKBP12 transgene expression and rapamycin, consistent with previous observations (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We would like to note here that compared with the findings with transgenic Arabidopsis lines, the wild-type seedling growth was normal even at the highest concentration of rapamycin tested (i.e., 20 µg/mL medium) (Figure 1D). We used rapamycin at 10 µg/mL concentration in the remainder of the experiments because this level allowed BP12 lines to complete their life cycle in spite of its effect on growth, and the effects of TOR signaling at different stages of postembryonic development could be assessed. [[FIGURE]] To address subcellular localization of FKBP12, we generated 81 P35S:FKBP12-GFP (for green fluorescent protein) transgenic Arabidopsis lines, out of which 17 selected T1 lines were analyzed by PCR to confirm the presence of the transgene with GFP fusion. All the selected lines except line 13 were positive (see Supplemental Figure 1C online). We also confirmed rapamycin sensitivity in lines 1 to 9 (see Supplemental Figure 1D online), suggesting that C-terminal fusion of GFP did not significantly affect the rapamycin sensitivity of ScFKBP12 in the TOR complex. The FKBP12 protein was localized to two compartments, the nucleus and the cytoplasm (see Supplemental Figures 1E to 1G online), which is similar to the subcellular localization pattern previously observed in TOR-GFP lines (CITATION). The colocalization of FKBP12 with TOR protein in the nucleus and cytoplasm may be an indication of a functional interaction between these proteins in the presence of rapamycin, similar to that shown in yeast and animal systems (CITATION; CITATION). TOR kinase function involves phosphorylation of its downstream target proteins, such as S6K, 4E-BP1, AKT, and TAP46. Phosphorylation of S6K at Thr-389 residue (pT389) has been used to monitor TOR activity in mammals (CITATION). Since the human S6K (Hs-S6K) and Arabidopsis S6K (At-S6K) homologs share a similar consensus phosphorylation motif for TOR (CITATION), it is possible to detect the phosphorylation status of human S6K (Hs-S6K) as substrate for Arabidopsis TOR kinase using an Hs-S6K (p70-S6K-pT389) specific antibody. Therefore, we explored this possibility in BP12 lines with the Hs-S6K antibody by creating double transgenics expressing both FKBP12 and Hs-S6K transgenes. We introduced the human p70-S6K construct P35S:Hs-S6K (with kanamycin selection marker) in the single-copy FKBP12 homozygous BP12-2 line (with basta selection marker). T0 generation seeds were screened on 0.5× MS medium containing both Basta and kanamycin. Nine independent lines containing both P35S:Hs-S6K and P35S:FKBP12 were identified by PCR and RT-PCR (see Supplemental Figures 2A and 2B online). The S6K/BP12-2 line that showed the highest expression level of HsS6K was used to determine At-TOR kinase activity. The ELISA data showed that, in S6K/BP12-C plants, 76.01% of S6K proteins were phosphorylated at Thr-389 by TOR kinase protein in the control, whereas in the presence of rapamycin, S6K protein phosphorylation was reduced to 24.05%, indicating that rapamycin significantly inhibited TOR kinase activity (see Supplemental Figure 2C online). A recent study also used Hs-S6K (p70-S6K-pT389) specific antibody to monitor TOR activity in Arabidopsis (CITATION). TOR has been shown to promote anabolic activity and cell growth in yeast and animals (CITATION). To explore the possible links between TOR and plant growth, we selected BP12-2, with a single FKBP12 transgene copy, and BP12-5, with multiple copies, for further study. In the presence of rapamycin, both BP12-2 and BP12-5 displayed a consistent reduction in growth and uniform rapamycin-sensitive phenotypes. The wild type did not have any discernible phenotypes. The transgenic lines showed a significant reduction in seedling length (Figure 1E) and fresh weight (Figure 1F) compared with the wild type at 7 d after germination (DAG). The slow growth was more pronounced (12-fold) by 45 DAG (Figure 1G). Also, the growth of primary and lateral roots was significantly inhibited in BP12-2 and BP12-5 plants (Figure 2A). Closer examination of the roots showed that the root hair growth was severely inhibited by rapamycin in BP12-2 and BP12-5 lines compared with the wild type (Figures 2B and 2E). Since the root apical meristem (RAM) size is defined by the proliferation of the transit amplifying cells (TACs), the daughter cells of the stem cells (CITATION), we compared the RAM region of BP12-2 and the wild type. BP12-2 RAM showed a significant reduction in the TAC zone resulting in a smaller RAM (Figures 2E and 2F). This is likely due to decreased cell division rate in the meristem region and in the TAC zone. The smaller RAM in BP12-2 was associated with differentiation of the xylem tracheary elements closer to the RAM region compared with the wild type (Figures 2F and 2G). [[FIGURE]] To investigate the effects of rapamycin treatment on cell elongation, we focused on the hypocotyl region of seedlings, which shows rapid cell elongation in the dark. Upon rapamycin treatment, both BP12-2 and BP12-5 hypocotyls elongated to only half the length of wild-type hypocotyls (Figure 2C). Elongation of cells from the mid-region of the hypocotyl was reduced by 50% in BP12-2 and BP12-5 compared with the wild type (Figure 2D). We also examined cell size in epidermal, palisade, and spongy mesophyll cells of the leaves treated with rapamycin. Significantly smaller cells (3 ± 0.2-fold, n = 50) were observed in rapamycin-treated BP12-2 line (Figures 2H to 2K) but not the wild type. Together, these results indicate that TOR activity is required for normal cell elongation and expansion in Arabidopsis. Changes in cellular metabolism, particularly the accumulation of amino acids in response to suppression of TOR signaling, have been previously observed in yeast, animals, and Arabidopsis (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To ascertain which metabolic changes accompany the growth pattern of TOR suppression lines, we analyzed metabolite profiles in the BP12-2 and BP12-5 lines and in the wild type in the presence or absence of rapamycin. Both the transgenic lines showed robust rapamycin-dependent responses, but the wild type exhibited few changes (Figures 3A and 3B; see Supplemental Figure 3 online). Quite remarkably, rapamycin significantly affected primary metabolism, with increases in the glycolytic and tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle intermediates and a large number of amino acids (Figures 3B and 3C, I and II; see Supplemental Figures 3A and 3B online); there were also notable increases in some components of the secondary metabolism, such as the polyamine pathway, antioxidative pathway, and phenylpropanoid pathway, in the two BP12 lines analyzed (Figure 3B; see Supplemental Figures 3D and 3E online). There was an increase in methanol-extractable d-galacturonate (see Supplemental Figure 3A online). As noted above, TOR inhibition results in a reduction of hypocotyl elongation and smaller cells in the leaves (Figures 2C and 2H). As cell expansion and tissue growth require incorporation of d-galacturonate into polymeric form in cell wall pectin, we attribute the increase in d-galacturonate to tempered cell wall assembly upon TOR inhibition. 3-Deoxyoctulosonate, another substrate for pectin synthesis, had also increased (see Supplemental Figure 3A online). Interestingly, there was a reduction in the myo-inositol level (see Supplemental Figure 3A online). Myo-inositol is a precursor of d-glucuronate that in turn can be metabolized to d-galacturonate (CITATION). The TCA cycle intermediates, citrate, fumarate, malate, and succinate registered significant increases. Since photosynthesis is diminished in TOR-inhibited lines (noted below), the TCA intermediates required for cellular respiration and maintenance of growth likely arise from reorganized metabolism. Since the nitrogen supply in the growth medium was the same, regardless of rapamycin inclusion, reduced carbon fixation would be expected to distort carbon-nitrogen balance in the cells. The interrelationship in carbon-nitrogen metabolism is complex (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Like the increase in organic acids, prominent increases in the amino acids and polyamines (CITATION) were apparent in rapamycin-treated BP-12 transgenic lines (Figures 3B and 3C, II; see Supplemental Figure 3B online). The increased level of several amino acids is attributed to protein degradation as a source for energy metabolism. The reduction in dipeptides is presumably an adaptive measure of TOR-inhibited cells to make amino acids to support respiration and limited growth (Figures 3B and 3C, III; see Supplemental Figure 3C online). The decrease in Arg levels parallels a decrease in N-acetylglutamate, N-acetylornithine, Orn, and citrulline, the precursors of Arg biosynthesis (see Supplemental Figure 3B online). This decrease in Arg levels and a concomitant increase in dimethylarginine under rapamycin treatment is an indication of methylation of proteinaceous Arg. Arg dimethylation acts as an antiaging modification in Caenorhabditis elegans and increased its life span (CITATION). Decreased levels of the polyamine precursors, Arg and Orn, were noted alongside increased levels of the biogenic amines, agmatine and putrescine, and the product of their catabolism, 5-methylthioadenosine (see Supplemental Figure 3D online). These results suggest that a perceived signal generated by TOR suppression redirects carbon flow and metabolic shift to other pathways to support the growth of rapamycin-treated BP12 plants. Other metabolic alterations arising from rapamycin treatment included some secondary metabolites. The phenylpropanoid pathway generates among precursors for other products substrates for flavonoids that exist in relatively simple forms and more complex forms that are recalcitrant to methanol extraction. This pathway generates hydroxycinnamic acid (HCA)–derived monolignols that when polymerized appropriately become the lignin component of the cell wall (CITATION). Rapamycin suppression of TOR activity led to increases in methanol-extractable HCA (ferulate and sinapate) and monolignols (coniferyl alcohol) (see Supplemental Figure 3E online), supporting the inference noted above with reference to tempered cell wall assembly. Tyramine, derived from l-Tyr, can condense with hydroxycinnamoyl CoA esters to form amides that can then be incorporated in cell walls (CITATION). The levels of tyramine were also lower when TOR was inhibited even though the HCA content was elevated (see Supplemental Figure 3E online). Also, members of anti-reactive oxygen species (ROS), including 5-oxoproline, and both oxidized and reduced forms of glutathione, all increased in rapamycin-treated BP12 plants (see Supplemental Figure 3B online). The ratio of GSH/GSSG is significantly reduced in BP12 lines (GSH/GSSG = 0.73, P < 0.05) compared with the wild-type control (GSH/GSSG = 1.32, P < 0.05) indicative of active ROS quenching. In C. elegans, genetic or rapamycin inhibition of TOR activates a stress-protective response that includes glutathione S-transferase and genes involved in glutathione among others. This, while reducing growth rate, enhances life span of the worm (CITATION) similar to that observed in BP12 plants treated with rapamycin. Purine and pyrimidine metabolism and also the lipid metabolism were notably the least affected by rapamycin-mediated TOR signaling suppression (see Supplemental Figure 3F online). An active protein metabolism is apparent from an increase in dimethylarginine, which is posttranslationally formed in proteins (see Supplemental Figure 3B online). These changes in metabolic profiles of rapamycin-treated BP12 plants compared with the wild type indicate redirection of specific carbon and nitrogen metabolites involving both primary and secondary metabolism, suggesting that TOR is associated with coordination of several primary and secondary metabolic activities during growth and development of Arabidopsis. We performed global RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) analysis in BP12-2 to obtain a perspective of gene expression under conditions of TOR inhibition. Comparative transcriptomes of rapamycin-treated BP12-2 line and the wild type identified a large number of differentially expressed genes (see Supplemental Data Sets 1 and 2 online). Among these, the most prominent downregulated genes under TOR inhibition in rapamycin-treated BP12-2 line were associated with major anabolic pathways, including cell wall biogenesis, photosynthesis, and inorganic nutrient transporters (see Supplemental Data Sets 2 and 3 online). By contrast, a large number of genes associated with catabolic pathways involving carbohydrates and proteins were upregulated in rapamycin-treated BP12-2 plants (see Supplemental Data Sets 2 and 3 online). In the category of cell wall biogenesis, genes downregulated in rapamycin-treated BP12-2 included structural proteins extensins, expansins, Pro-rich proteins, and arabinogalactan- and Hyp-rich glycoproteins (see Supplemental Figure 4 and Supplemental Data Set 3 online). Extensins are involved in cell wall architecture, whereas expansins function to enable plant cell expansion (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Since cell wall development governs cell size, shape, and function (CITATION) together with the fact that genes that enable restructuring of cell wall during growth were affected in rapamycin-treated BP12 plants, we quantified these genes and confirmed the transcriptome data using real-time PCR. All of the 16 extensin genes, seven of the nine expansin genes, and Pro- and glyco-rich cell wall protein genes tested were significantly downregulated in rapamycin-treated BP12-2 compared with the wild type (see Supplemental Figure 4 and Supplemental Data Set 3 online). Also, galactinol synthase 3, involved in the synthesis of raffinose family of oligosaccharides (RFOs), was significantly downregulated. This is consistent with a decreased level of galactinol and raffinose in TOR knockdown plants. Biosynthesis of RFOs is catalyzed via the formation of galactinol from myo-inositol and UDP-Gal by galactinol synthase. Sequential transfer of Gal units from galactinol to Suc leads to the formation of raffinose and higher order RFOs (CITATION). Both galactinol and raffinose are proposed to protect plant cells from oxidative damage by scavenging hydroxyl radicals when challenged by strong oxidizing agents, such as methyl viologen or chilling stress (CITATION; CITATION). The low level of RFOs in rapamycin-treated plants is consistent with a lowered oxidative challenge in these plants. Taken together, these transcriptome data are consistent with and complement the carbohydrate metabolite data and suggest that TOR controls cell expansion and elongation likely via regulating the expression of the cell wall structural proteins. Inorganic nutrition transporters that are essential for anabolic processes in plants were also downregulated in rapamycin-treated BP12. This is reflected by the poor growth of rapamycin-treated BP12-2 plants even when grown under nonlimiting supply of inorganic nutrients in the medium. Defensin genes that are part of the stress response pathway in Arabidopsis are upregulated (see Supplemental Figure 4 and Supplemental Data Set 1 online). In parallel with these observations is downregulation of genes encoding ribulose-1,5-bis-phosphate carboxylase/oxygenase small subunit (CITATION) and NDP kinase in rapamycin-treated BP12-2 plants (CITATION), which are important for carbon fixation and the light signaling pathway, respectively, in the chloroplast (CITATION). Thus, downregulation of photosynthesis, a major anabolic process in plants, can contribute to growth defects in rapamycin-treated BP12-2 plants. Similarly, defects in the development of root hairs and elongation of lateral and primary roots in rapamycin-treated BP12-2 plants are consistent with the transcriptome data showing differential expression of 40 root-related genes in these plants (see Supplemental Data Set 3 online). Thirty-three of these were found to be significantly downregulated (see Supplemental Data Set 3 online), including MORPHOGENESIS OF ROOT HAIR6 (MRH6), which affects root hair development (CITATION). Metabolite data clearly indicated increased polyamine biosynthesis in rapamycin-treated BP12-2 plants. A limiting reaction in this pathway is catalyzed by S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase (CITATION). S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase was one of the upregulated genes featured in rapamycin-treated BP12-2 plants whose expression was also quantified and verified (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). Thus, the transcriptome and metabolite data are congruous and support the finding that inhibition of TOR activity affects metabolic processes linked to important plant growth processes. The above-described data bring to the fore the nutrition relatedness of the plant TOR pathway and the question arose whether, similar to the role of TOR as a nutrition sensor in yeast and animals, TOR regulation of Arabidopsis development and metabolism are influenced by nutrition. Therefore, wild-type and BP12-2 seedling growth was followed on different concentrations of MS medium (see Supplemental Table 1 online). Wild-type plants grown on nutrient poor medium (0.001× MS) resembled the BP12-2 plant grown on 500-fold richer medium (0.5× MS) but containing rapamycin (Figure 4A), indicating both nutrient starvation and TOR inhibition by rapamycin produce similar phenotypes. A gradual reduction of fresh weight in wild-type plants was observed on decreasing MS concentration in the medium (Figure 4B). In 0.001× MS + rapamycin medium that provides a condition of nutrient starvation and TOR inhibition, both wild-type and BP12-2 plants displayed similar growth rates (Figures 4C and 4D). Under these conditions, increasing the nutrient supply up to 1× MS while maintaining the rapamycin concentration permitted a ninefold growth increase in the wild type, but not in BP12-2, whose growth remained close to that observed in 0.001× MS + rapamycin (Figures 4C and 4D). These results indicated that BP12-2 plants could not respond positively to increasing nutrition levels when TOR is inhibited. Under hypernutritive conditions (2× MS + rapamycin), which also represent higher osmotic potential, growth of the wild type and BP12-2 line decreased relative to 1× MS + rapamycin (Figures 4C and 4D). Increasing the concentrations of nitrogen and carbon (Suc) significantly increased the growth rates of wild-type seedlings, whereas the BP12-2 seedlings with rapamycin remained insensitive to this stimulation (Figures 4E and 4F). We note here that S6K phosphorylation was reduced to 25.18% when nutrition was limited (see Supplemental Figure 2C online), and this is similar to the reduced level of phosphorylation (24%) when TOR is inhibited by rapamycin. Thus, nutrition starvation phenocopies the suppression of TOR kinase activity. Together, these results suggest that TOR signaling senses nutritional status and may thereby control cell growth and development. [[FIGURE]] Plants respond positively to photosynthetic growth when light intensity is increased from suboptimal levels. This was observed with wild-type plants (Figures 5A and 5B). By contrast, rapamycin-treated BP12-2 line failed to respond to increasing light intensities (Figure 5A), resulting in a growth rate that was >10-fold lower than the wild-type control (Figure 5B). To test the effect of combined light and nutrition conditions on plant growth, fresh weight ratio between wild-type and rapamycin-treated BP12-2 plants under various light intensities and nutrient concentrations (MS media) was determined (Figure 5C). The largest fresh weight ratio value, indicating a significant difference between wild-type and rapamycin-treated BP12-2 plants, was observed at 100 µmol m−2 s−1 light intensity (Figure 5C). This ratio peaked at 0.5× MS and was significantly lower under weak light (10 µmol m−2 s−1) and dark conditions (Figure 5C). Consistent with these observations, upon light energy limitation, TOR kinase activity was significantly suppressed similar to that observed in BP12-2 plants treated with rapamycin (see Supplemental Figure 2C online). [[FIGURE]] We next determined whether the reduction of growth and biomass of TOR suppression lines is associated with ROS and NAD(P)H reduction (CITATION). ROS signals in the root hair of wild-type plants treated with rapamycin were similar to the control plants; however, significant reduction of ROS signals was observed in rapamycin-treated BP12-2 plants compared with the control (Figure 5D), as was also the case with NAD(P)H levels (Figure 5E). Interestingly, the ratios of NADH/NAD and NADPH/NADP in BP12 lines did not differ from the wild type in response to rapamycin treatment, indicating that the homeostasis of NAD(P)H/NAD(P) is maintained in BP12 lines but the relative levels of NAD(P)H were lower compared with the wild type. Glutathione reductase uses NADPH to reduce the oxidized form of glutathione (GSSG) to the reduced form (GSH). The reduction of NADPH is highly consistent with the ratio of GSH/GSSG significantly decreasing in rapamycin-treated BP12 lines compared with the wild type control observed in metabolite profile. These results suggest a mechanistic link between light energy-TOR-ROS/NAD(P)H and plant growth. It is estimated that cells dedicate ∼80% of total transcriptional activity to the synthesis of rRNAs and proteins for ribosome biogenesis (CITATION), making ribosome biogenesis a major nutrient and energy-consuming process in growing cells (CITATION). The TOR regulation of energy and nutrient availability is known to be mediated by alterations in protein and ribosome production (CITATION). We therefore quantified total RNA production of wild-type and BP12-2 plants with and without rapamycin. Total RNA was significantly reduced in rapamycin-treated BP12-2 plants (Figure 6A and inset), as also observed under light-limiting conditions (Figure 6B and inset), nutrition starvation (Figure 6C and inset), and carbon (Suc) or nitrogen limitation (Figure 6D and inset). Under nutrient limitation (0.001× MS) or when kept in the dark, no further reduction in total RNA was found in rapamycin-treated BP12-2 plants (Figure 6E and inset). Thus, TOR requires both light and nutrition signals to regulate total RNA expression in Arabidopsis. Previously, TOR modulation of rRNA expression has been shown (CITATION). We quantified rRNA content in BP12-2 plants using a GFP reporter construct (45S rRNA promoter fused with GFP; Pr-RNA:GFP) previously described (CITATION). The GFP transcripts quantified by real time-PCR (see Supplemental Table 4 online) essentially mirrored the trends observed for the total RNA levels in the wild type and BP12-2 with analogous treatments (Figure 6). [[FIGURE]] In order to delineate effects of TOR suppression on growth of Arabidopsis, we examined the kinetics of phase change, flowering time, chlorophyll content, cell death rate, and the senescence-associated gene (SAG) expression in BP12-2 lines in 0.5× MS + rapamycin medium at 100 µmol m−2 s−1 fluence (Figure 7). The BP12-2 plants characteristically had smaller rosette leaves, slower phase change, delayed flowering, and shorter roots compared with the wild type (Figures 7A to 7C; see Supplemental Table 5 online). By 70 DAG, the wild-type plants had senesced, whereas the BP12-2 rosettes were still green and their roots had lengthened, indicating sustained growth and longer life span (Figure 7D; see Supplemental Table 5 online). Rapamycin application to BP12-2 plants even at an advanced growth stage effectively delayed their flowering time and further aging (see Supplemental Figure 5 online). [[FIGURE]] The delayed senescence in rapamycin-treated BP12-2 plants prompted us to further examine aging in the first rosette leaf pair in Arabidopsis using known assays and markers: chlorophyll content, cell death rate, and SAG12 expression levels (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). At 32 DAG, total chlorophyll content in the leaves had only reduced by 11% in BP12-2 line in contrast with 83% in the wild type (Figure 7E). Cell death (measured by Evans blue staining; CITATION) was only 19% in BP12-2 compared with 94% in the wild type (Figure 7F). The flowering time of BP12-2 plants was delayed by 13 d compared with the wild type (Figure 7G). Senescence rate was also measured by quantifying SAG12 marker expression in the first leaf pair of the rosette treated with rapamycin. It should be noted that only SAG12 was used because both SAG12 and SAG13 had shown similar trends in this study. SAG12 expression in the wild type was clearly higher, and in comparison it was initiated 4 d later in the BP12-2 line but continued to gradually increase to the wild-type levels by day 44 (Figure 7H). Rapamycin treatment of BP12-2 consistently delayed the emergence of hypocotyl, establishment of rosette leaves, bolting, opening of the first flower, and whole-plant senescence relative to that in the wild type. Consequently, BP12-2 plants lived 17 d longer than the wild type (see Supplemental Table 5 online). A previous study suggested involvement of RPS6 in regulating growth processes in Arabidopsis (CITATION). We further pursued this observation and found that rps6 mutant lines show growth phenotypes similar to rapamycin-treated BP12-2 plants. Independent T-DNA knockout lines representing loss of function of two RPS6 homologs, rps6a and rps6b (see Supplemental Figures 6A and 6B online and Supplemental Methods 1 online), had smaller leaves, slower root growth rate, delayed phase change, delayed flowering, and longer life span in comparison to the wild type (Figures 8A and 8B; see Supplemental Tables 5 and 6 online). Our attempts to construct double mutants of rps6a and rps6b were not successful due to lethality in the double homozygous seeds (Supplemental Methods 1 online). Interestingly, all the 54 F1 generation plants (rps6a/+ rps6b/+) confirmed by PCR-based genotyping, had the same phenotype as the rps6a or rps6b single mutants (Figure 8C). This further confirmed that heterozygosity of the two RPS6 genes results in dosage effect or haploinsufficiency as also previously noted (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Because stronger developmental defects were observed in our studies with rps6b compared with the rps6a, rps6b plants were used for additional experiments. The smaller leaves of rps6b mutants had fewer secondary veins and the epidermal pavement cells were two-thirds the size of comparable cells in the wild type (Figure 8D), while the TAC zone in rps6b mutant roots was much smaller than the wild type (Figure 8E), similar to observations shown above in rapamycin-treated BP12-2 RAM. Complementation tests confirmed the respective mutant alleles of RPS6A and RPS6B genes (Figure 8F; see Supplemental Methods online). Furthermore, growth rates of rps6a and rps6b single mutants in different nutrition conditions and two light intensities were examined (see Supplemental Figure 7A online). In normal to rich nutrition medium or high light conditions, the growth rate of the mutant seedlings was slower than that of the wild type but slightly better than wild-type controls under poor nutrition or low light conditions (see Supplemental Figures 7B and 7C online). The observations of slow growth of rps6 single mutants and the lethality of the rps6a-rps6b double mutants are reminiscent of rapamycin-treated BP12-2 plants and the tor mutants, respectively (CITATION; CITATION). Thus, both TOR and RPS6 are limiting factors for normal plant growth. These findings prompted us to test if RPS6 functions as a downstream mediator (component) of TOR signaling as seem to be the case in yeast and animals. We therefore tested genetic interactions between TOR and RPS6. TOR was suppressed in the rps6 mutant by crossing BP12-2 line with T3 generation homozygous lines of rps6 carrying P35S:FKBP12. In both the rps6a and rps6b mutants carrying P35S:FKBP12, rapamycin treatment did not significantly decrease the growth rate to the levels observed in the rapamycin-treated BP12-2 line (Figures 9A and 9B). This indicated that TOR inhibition phenotype to manifest fully requires functional and homozygous copies of both RPS6A and RPS6B. However, the chlorophyll content (Figure 9C), cell death rate (Figure 9D), flowering time (Figure 9E), and SAG12 expression level (Figure 9F) in the rapamycin-treated rps6b carrying P35S:FKBP12 followed the trend observed in rapamycin-treated BP12-2 plants and rps6b single mutants. The values were consistently intermediate between those observed in rps6b and BP12-2 lines. Rapamycin treatment produced significant increase in the life span of the rps6b mutants (Figure 9; see Supplemental Table 6 online) but not to the same extent as seen in the rapamycin-treated BP12-2 line (Figure 9). These observations suggest that both RPS6A and RPS6B are required for TOR suppression-dependent increase in life span observed in BP12-2 plants. [[FIGURE]] Since TOR-inhibited plants and rps6 mutants displayed delayed phase change and late flowering, we used P35S:TOR transgenic plants (CITATION) and RPS6A and RPS6B overexpression lines (P35S:RPS6A and P35S:RPS6B) generated in this study (see Supplemental Figure 8 online; Figures 10A and 10C) to obtain additional insights into the TOR-RPS6 connection. The TOR overexpression line (TOR-OE1) flowers and senesces earlier compared with the wild type (Figure 10A; see Supplemental Table 6 online). Although the first five leaves of the TOR-OE1 rosette retain a shape similar to the wild type, the latter formed more rounded leaves with short petioles (Figure 10A). TOR-OE1 siliques ripened earlier than the wild type (Figure 10B; see Supplemental Table 6 online). Both the P35S:RPS6A (RPS6A-OE1) and P35S:RPS6B (RPS6B-OE1) lines showed the following phenotypes: early flowering (see Supplemental Table 6 online), early onset of senescence in rosette leaves and siliques (Figures 10C and 10D; see Supplemental Table 6 online), and shorter petioles and bent siliques (Figures 10C and 10D). In this regard, these plants resemble the TOR kinase domain overexpression lines (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] The results of reduced life span in overexpressors of TOR and RPS6 (see Supplemental Table 6 online) together with the finding that the rps6b mutation mitigates early flowering and senescence phenotypes of TOR-OE1 (Figure 10F) in the rps6b/TOR-OE1 plants (Figure 10F) suggest that the TOR-mediated life span phenotypes require RPS6 function. We also verified the ability of rapamycin to specifically inhibit TOR using the TOR-OE1xBP12-2 line. T3 generation TOR-OE1xBP12-2 plants showed early senescence and short life span as observed in TOR-OE1 in the absence of rapamycin, but these phenotypes were suppressed in the presence of rapamycin (Figure 10G; see Supplemental Table 5 online). Notably, the TOR overexpression phenotypes were suppressed by rapamycin only in lines with the yeast FKBP12 background, further confirming that rapamycin specifically inhibits TOR activity. Next, we used TOR-OE1, RPS6A-OE1, and RPS6B-OE1 lines that have high expression of the respective transgenes (see Supplemental Table 7 online) to determine the effect of TOR and RPS6 on life span in Arabidopsis. Both in the soil and on MS media, the rosette leaves of all these transgenic lines showed an early onset of senescence (see Supplemental Figures 9A to 9C online) with rapid decrease in chlorophyll content (at 24 DAG, TOR-OE1 [56%], RPS6A-OE1 [30%], and RPS6B-OE1 [25%] in contrast with 6% in the wild type) (see Supplemental Figure 9D online) and faster cell death rate (see Supplemental Figure 9E online). Thus, TOR and RPS6 overexpression contribute to accelerated senescence and flowering time. These observations are consistent with SAG12 and SAG13 expression, detected in the wild type at or after 24 DAG but expressed as early as 16 DAG in TOR and RPS6 overexpression lines (see Supplemental Figures 9F and 9G online). At 36 DAG, SAG13 expression in TOR and RPS6 overexpression lines was ∼200 and ∼1000-fold higher, respectively, relative to the wild type (see Supplemental Figure 9G online). Collectively, these results demonstrated that the high TOR and RPS6 expression levels (see Supplemental Table 7 online) confer faster growth cycle and decreased life span in Arabidopsis. We hypothesized that if TOR and RPS6 products have overlapping functions, they should colocalize to same cellular location(s). Therefore, subcellular localization of RPS6A and RPS6B was determined by transient expression of P35S:RPS6A-GFP and P35S:RPS6B-GFP fusion constructs in onion epidermal cells. The GFP signal of RPS6A and RPS6B was found localized both in the nucleus and cytoplasm (Figures 10I and 10J), which is similar to previously observed localization of TOR (CITATION). In addition to their colocalization, we also determined that they share overlapping expression patterns. Both PRPS6A:GUS (for β-glucuronidase) and PRPS6B:GUS were found to be ubiquitously expressed in the seedling and inflorescence tissues and closely resembled the expression pattern observed with PTOR:GUS (Figure 10H). These overlapping expression and subcellular localization patterns for TOR, RPS6A, and RPS6B along with similar phenotypes in their loss- and gain-of-function lines support our contention that these genes perform coordinated functions in the TOR signaling pathway in Arabidopsis. Protein synthesis is integral to active growth of organisms (CITATION). We surmised that TOR- and RPS6-dependent pathways in Arabidopsis would also be associated with active protein synthesis. Changes in the rate of protein synthesis was followed by quantifying GUS activity using 4-methylumbelliferyl-beta-D-glucuronide fluorometric enzymatic assays in the leaves of the wild type and TOR-OE1, RPS6A-OE1, and RPS6B-OE1, BP12-2, rps6a, and rps6b transgenic Arabidopsis lines carrying a single copy of the P35S:GUS construct. The GUS activity in the leaves of TOR and RPS6 overexpression lines was four and two times, respectively, that of the wild-type leaves (see Supplemental Figure 10 online), and a significant reduction was seen in rps6a (27%) and rps6b (31%) leaves (see Supplemental Figure 9 online). In the presence of rapamycin, GUS activity was reduced by 61% in BP12-2 leaves compared with the wild type (see Supplemental Figure 10 online). Thus, we inferred from this reporter study that protein synthesis was significantly upregulated in lines overexpressing TOR or RPS6 and downregulated in TOR or RPS6 suppressors. Taken together, these data show that the role(s) of TOR and RPS6 in growth rate and life span in Arabidopsis are linked with rRNA, total RNA production, and protein synthesis.
!~MM~! In this study, the wild-type Arabidopsis Columbia (Columbia-0) ecotype was used. Arabidopsis seedlings and plants were grown in growth chambers with 22°C and 16-h/8-h light/dark cycle settings unless indicated otherwise. Transgenic plants were generated by the floral dipping method (CITATION). Arabidopsis growth, transformation, and screening of primary transformants were performed according to the published protocols (CITATION). The mutants rps6a (SALK_012147) and rps6b (SALK_061539) in Columbia background were obtained from the ABRC. Detailed information describing mutant lines is listed in Supplemental Table 8 online. The knockout lines were identified and confirmed by PCR using primers designed using the T-DNA Primer Design website, http://signal.salk.edu/tdnaprimers.2.html. The details of these primers are listed in Supplemental Table 9 online. To measure the rate of plant growth, sterilized seeds were planted on the nutrient-solidified agar plates. Plates were sealed with Parafilm and held vertically in the growth chamber under the indicated light and temperature conditions. The seedling samples were harvested, and the fresh weight was examined 11 DAG. For rapamycin treatments, exposure of BP12 plants to different concentrations (0.5, 1, 5, 10, and 20 µg/mL) of rapamycin showed that 10 μg/mL rapamycin was the optimal concentration to inhibit TOR as also documented in the previous study (CITATION). In nutrition limitation or light limitation conditions, the wild-type control and BP12-2 transgenic plants or rps6 mutants were germinated on the same plate containing 10 µg/mL rapamycin (Bioshop Canada) or the same nitrogen/carbon concentration unless indicated otherwise. Rapamycin was dissolved in DMSO (Fisher ChemAlert). It was noted that MS plates containing 1 µL/mL DMSO had no effects on the growth of wild-type, BP12-1, BP12-2, BP12-4, and BP12-5 plants compared with MS plates lacking DMSO (see Supplemental Figure 1B online). Therefore, MS/DMSO plates are referred as MS plates in all the rapamycin treatment assays. Each fresh weight data point represents the average of three independent experiments. The full-length coding sequence of RPS6A (750 bp) and RPS6B (753 bp) was amplified by RT-PCR using the Advantage 2 Polymerase Mix kit (Clontech) following the manufacturer’s instructions. RT-PCR primer pairs for amplification of the full-length genes from Arabidopsis were designed based on the cDNA sequence (http://www.Arabidopsis.org). These primers introduced a NotI site at the 5′ end of the respective forward primer and an XmalI site in the 3′ end of reverse primer. The PCR products, with the 5′ NotI site and 3′ XmalI site, were cloned into the TA cloning vector pCR2.1-TOPO (Invitrogen). The recombinant clones were verified by DNA sequencing and cloned into p8GWN (CITATION) to generate the Gateway system–based Entry vector (CITATION). Similarly, the coding sequence of full-length yeast FKBP12 (345 bp) containing NotI-XmaI restriction sites was PCR amplified from yeast genomic DNA and cloned into the NotI-XmaI sites of LR reaction gateway entry vector p8GWN (CITATION) to generate Gateway entry vector constructs. The Gateway system (Invitrogen) was employed for creating different overexpression constructs, which were developed by transferring target genes from p8GWN into the appropriate pEarleyGate vectors (pEarleyGate 201 containing HA tag; pEarleyGate 201 containing cMyc tag and pEarleyGate 103 containing GFP) through LR recombination reactions in Escherichia coli (CITATION) to generate RPS6A-OE(P35S:HA-RPS6A), RPS6B-OE(P35S:cMyc-RPS6B), P35S:RPS6A-GFP, and P35S:RPS6B-GFP. The lines of TOR-OE (P35S:TOR) were described previously (CITATION). The resulting plasmids were used to transform wild-type Arabidopsis plants (Columbia-0) for developmental and phenotypic analyses or onion (Allium cepa) cells for cellular localization studies. Based on our previous PrRNA:GFP construct (CITATION), the PrRNA was replaced by the promoters of TOR (2.7 kb), RPS6A (1.2 kb), and RPS6B (2.1 kb) through AsisI and NotI restriction sites, respectively. Furthermore, the GFP was replaced by 1.8-kb GUS marker gene containing NotI-XmaI restriction sites and PCR amplified using forward primer GUSF and reverse primer GUSR (see Supplemental Table 10 online). The constructs of PTOR:GUS, PRPS6A:GUS, and PRPS6B:GUS were transferred into destination vector pEarleyGate303 through LR recombination reactions. Based on PRPS6A:GUS and PRPS6B:GUS constructs, the GUS gene was replaced by 2632-bp genome fragment containing the RPS6A and 1406-bp genome fragment of RPS6B coding sequence to generate PRPS6A:RPS6A and PRPS6B:RPS6B complementation vectors. The corresponding primers are listed in Supplemental Table 10 online. The resulting plasmids were used to transform wild-type Arabidopsis plants (Columbia-0) for expression analysis and rps6a or rps6b mutants background for complementation studies. Particle bombardment was performed as described (CITATION). The relative chlorophyll content, cell death rate, and SAG12/SAG13 expression level in the first leaf pair was measured every fourth day starting from 20 to 44 DAG. Chlorophyll was extracted from the first leaf pair and quantified (CITATION). The chlorophyll content at 20 DAG was used as the reference (values set as 100%), to which the relative chlorophyll contents in experimental samples were compared. The cell death rate was determined after spectrophotometric measurement of absorbance at 600 nm (CITATION). The cell death rate at 44 DAG was used as the reference control (values set as 100%) for the relative cell death rates shown in the figures. Each data point represents the average of three pools of the first leaf pair taken from separate plants at each sampling time. The genomic DNA samples were isolated from the leaves at 20 DAG of BP12 lines. DNA gel blotting was performed using DIG-High prime DNA labeling and detection starter kit II (Roche) following the protocol provided with the kit. Total protein was extracted from 100 mg of fresh leaf tissue obtained from 3-week-old plants with 300 mL extraction buffer (0.1 M Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 0.01 M MgCl2, 18% [w/v] Suc, and 40 mM 2-mercaptoethanol). SDS (2%, w/v) was added to extraction buffer to solubilize membrane and other insoluble proteins. Protein samples were subjected to SDS-PAGE and transferred to Hybond-P polyvinylidene difluoride transfer membrane (Amersham). Membranes were blocked with 5% ECL blocking agent (dissolved with 1× TBST) and then incubated with 1:2000 diluted primary antibody (mouse anti-c-Myc). After three washings with 1× TBST, the blot was incubated with 1:5000 diluted horseradish peroxidase–conjugated goat anti-mouse IgG antibodies. Supersignal west pico chemiluminescent substrate (Thermo Scientific) was used for signal detection. Real-time PCR was performed as described previously using the Step One Real-Time PCR system from Applied Biosystems (CITATION). The primers used in this study are listed in Supplemental Table 11 online. For the GUS assay, the GUS activity and staining were performed as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). For the NAD/NADH and NADP/NADPH assay, 11-DAG wild-type and BP12-2 seedlings were collected in the presence of rapamycin, ground in liquid nitrogen, and assayed as described in the e.ENZYME LLC kit instructions. Three biological replicates were used for each assay. For the p70-S6K [pT389] phosphorylation assay, S6K/BP12-C seedlings at 15 DAG were treated with rapamycin, dark and nutrient starvation for 3 d by transferring the seedlings from half-strength MS medium to half-strength MS + 10 μg/mL rapamycin, half-strength MS + dark, and 0.001× MS, respectively, along with control (half-strength MS + 1 μL/mL DMSO) were used. The ELISA assay was performed on seedling extracts made following the kit manual (p70-S6K [pT389] human ELISA kit; Invitrogen). Three biological replicates were used for each assay. The probe 2′,7′-dichlorofluorescin diacetate (H2DCFDA) (Molecular Probes/Invitrogen) was used at 20 μM to detect ROS. The roots were treated with the H2DCFDA for 45 min at 4°C and washed twice in the same buffer, and then images were captured with Leica SP5 confocal microscope using 488-nm/522-nm excitation/emission. Cellular details were observed with a Leica DMR microscope after clearing the tissues in a chloral hydrate solution (8:1:2 chloral hydrate/glycerol/water [w/v/v]), and the images were captured using a Microfire camera (Optronics). Scanning electron microscopy was performed as described previously (CITATION). Confocal images of the palisade and spongy mesophyll cells were captured with the Leica SP5 confocal microscope after staining the tissues with propidium iodide. Wild-type, BP12-2, and BP12-5 seedlings (incubated in growth chambers with the following settings: 22°C, 16-h-light [7 am to 11 pm]/ 8-h-dark cycle, and 100 µmol m−2 s−1 light intensity) at 15 DAG were treated with rapamycin for 3 d by transferring from 0.5× MS medium to 0.5× MS + 10 μg/mL rapamycin along with control (0.5 MS + 1 μL/mL DMSO). Samples collected between 1 and 2 pm were ground in liquid nitrogen and freeze dried for 6 d under vacuum. Four biological replicates for each of these samples were further processed and analyzed by Metabolon for global unbiased metabolite profiling involving a combination of three platforms: ultra-HPLC–tandem mass spectrometry optimized for basic species, ultra-HPLC/tandem mass spectrometry optimized for acidic species, and gas chromatography–mass spectrometry. Methods used were as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). Wild-type, BP12-2, and BP12-5 seedlings at 15 DAG were treated with rapamycin for 3 d by transferring from 0.5 MS medium to 0.5 MS + 10 µg/mL rapamycin along with control (0.5 MS + 1 µL/mL DMSO). Four lanes in the heat map for each treatment correspond to four biological replicates. Raw data for each compound from the entire metabolic profiling data set were scaled to the median of the detected values, and null values were imputed with the minimum value detected for the compound. A log2 transformation was then performed, which rendered the median values as zero. False color was applied as indicated in the legend scale, in both cases with color saturation at two log2 units above or below the median, with yellow representing values higher than the median and blue representing values lower than the median. Compounds in the figure were blocked by general pathway group as indicated. Supplemental Figures 3A to 3E online list the respective compound names and their mean values for each pathway group. Rapamycin, indicated by red arrow, was at detectable levels in all treated plants, but not in any of the untreated plants, as expected. Paired-end alignments were obtained through aligning short reads onto the reference Arabidopsis genome (TAIR9) using Bowtie (http://bowtie-bio.sourceforge.net/index.shtml). Approximately 70% of the reads mapped to at least one genomic location on either of the two strands. For those reads that did not align to the genome, a second-round alignment was performed in which we recursively trimmed one base at a time (up to 21-mers) at either the 5′ or 3′ end of the reads until we found a (perfect) match to the genome. Finally, more than 80% of the reads mapped onto the genome. Htseq-count (http://www-huber.embl.de/users/anders/HTSeq/doc/count.html) was used to count the reads from the Bowtie derived output files. Differentially expressed genes were identified using edgeR (http://www.bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/edgeR.html). The false discovery rate–corrected P value for differential expression was set to be ≤0.05. For Gene Ontology (GO) analysis, GO terms were obtained from The Arabidopsis Information Resource. GO enrichment analysis was conducted as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). Specifically, to identify differentially expressed GO terms, we considered the gene expression values for the GO analysis using parametric analysis of gene set enrichment (CITATION). Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: TOR, At1g50030; yeast FKBP(12), YNL135C; Arabidopsis S6K, At3g08730; human S6K, NM_003161; RPS6A, At4g31700; and RPS6B, At5g10360. The RNA-seq data have been uploaded to the Gene Expression Omnibus under accession number GSE42968. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Functional Analysis of BP12 Lines and Subcellular Localization of GFP-Fused FKBP12 Protein in Arabidopsis. Supplemental Figure 2. Molecular Identification of Transgenics and Analysis of Human S6K1 Phosphorylation Status in Arabidopsis. Supplemental Figure 3A. Heat Map of Biochemicals in the Carbohydrate Pathway. Supplemental Figure 3B. Heat Map of Biochemicals in the Amino Acid Pathway and Polyamine Subpathway. Supplemental Figure 3C. Heat Map of Biochemicals in the Peptide Pathway. Supplemental Figure 3D. Polyamine Pathway Showing Metabolites in Red and Blue That Are Significantly Up- and Downregulated Supplemental Figure 3E. Heat Map of Biochemicals in the Secondary Metabolism Pathway. Supplemental Figure 3F. Heat Map of Biochemicals in the Lipid, Cofactors, and Nucleotide Pathway. Supplemental Figure 4. Gene Expression Levels in Rapamycin-Treated BP12-2 Plants Compared with the Wild Type. Supplemental Figure 5. Rapamycin Treatment at Preflowering Stage Delayed the Growth Rate and Phase Change in BP12-2 Plants. Supplemental Figure 6. Molecular Identification of rps6a and rps6b Mutants. Supplemental Figure 7. rps6 Mutants Show Nutrition- and Light-Dependent Growth Performance. Supplemental Figure 8. Molecular Identification of RPS6A-OE1 and RPS6B-OE1 Transgenic Plants by DNA PCR, RT-PCR, and Immunoblot Analyses. Supplemental Figure 9. TOR, RPS6A, and RPS6B Overexpression Result in Early Onset of Senescence. Supplemental Figure 10. Levels of TOR and RPS6 Determine the Rate of Protein Synthesis as Measured by GUS Reporter Expression in Arabidopsis. Supplemental Figure 11. Proposed Mechanism of Rapamycin-Induced Redox and Metabolite Alterations in BP-12 Plants. Supplemental Table 1. Different Concentrations of MS Medium Used in This Study. Supplemental Table 2. Different Nitrogen Concentration Used in MS Medium. Supplemental Table 3. Different Suc Concentration Used in the MS Medium. Supplemental Table 4. Analysis of GFP Expression Levels of PrRNA:GFP in the Wild Type and BP12-2 Background under Different Nutrition and Rapamycin Treatment Conditions. Supplemental Table 5. Growth Stages and Leaf Numbers of BP12-2, rps6a, rps6b, rps6b/BP12-2, TOR-OX1, and TOR-OX1/BP12-2 Grown on MS + Rapamycin Plates compared with Wild-Type Control. Supplemental Table 6. Growth Stages and Leaf Numbers of rps6a, rps6b, TOR-OE1, RPS6A-OE1, and RPS6B-OE1 and Wild-Type Lines Grown in Soil. Supplemental Table 7. Expression Levels of Transgenes in TOR-OE1, RPS6A-OE1, and RPS6B-OE1 Arabidopsis Lines. Supplemental Table 8. Characterization of T-DNA Insertion Lines and Their Phenotypes. Supplemental Table 9. PCR Primers Used for Identification of SALK Knockout Lines. Supplemental Table 10. PCR Primers Used for Cloning. Supplemental Table 11. Primers Used for Real-Time PCR. Supplemental Methods 1. Identification of RPS6 Single and Double Mutants in Arabidopsis. Supplemental Data Set 1. List of genes from the RNA Seq data that are differentially expressed in BP12-2 seedlings treated with rapamycin (P-Value < 0.05). Supplemental Data Set 2. GO analysis of functional categories of genes from the RNA Seq data that are differentially expressed in BP12-2 seedlings treated with rapamycin (P-Value < 0.05). Supplemental Data Set 3. Functional categories of genes from the RNA Seq data that are differentially expressed in BP12-2 seedlings treated with rapamycin (P-Value < 0.05). A- root; B- cell wall; C- transporter and D- defense response.
