!~ABS~! Arginine is an essential amino acid necessary for protein synthesis and is also a nitrogen storage compound. The genes encoding the enzymes of arginine biosynthesis in plants are not well characterized and have mainly been predicted from homologies to bacterial and fungal genes. We report the cloning and characterization of the TUMOR PRONE5 (TUP5) gene of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) encoding an acetylornithine aminotransferase (ACOAT), catalyzing the fourth step of arginine biosynthesis. The free arginine content was strongly reduced in the chemically induced recessive mutant tup5-1, root growth was restored by supplementation with arginine and its metabolic precursors, and a yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) ACOAT mutant was complemented by TUP5. Two null alleles of TUP5 caused a reduced viability of gametes and embryo lethality, possibly caused by insufficient Arg supply from maternal tissue. TUP5 expression is positively regulated by light, and a TUP5-green fluorescent protein was localized in chloroplasts. tup5-1 has a unique light-dependent short root phenotype. Roots of light-grown tup5-1 seedlings switch from indeterminate growth to determinate growth with arresting cell production and an exhausted root apical meristem. The inhibitory activity was specific for blue light, and the inhibiting light was perceived by the root. Thus, tup5-1 reveals a novel role of amino acids and blue light in regulating root meristem function.
!~RES~! Initially, tup5-1 was found in a screen for mutants that react with higher sensitivity than the wild type to the phytohormones auxin and cytokinin by the formation of tumorous tissue. The recessive ethyl methanesulfonate mutant tup5-1 formed calli on hypocotyl and root explants when grown on medium containing low concentrations of the auxin α-naphthylacetic acid and the cytokinin isopentenyl adenine, which were not effective in the wild type (Fig. 1A; CITATION). Mutant seedlings had a very short root (no longer than 1–2 mm) when grown in vitro in light, and growth-arrested root primordia formed callus-like structures at the hypocotyl/root junction (Fig. 1, B and C; CITATION; CITATION). The shoot of in vitro-grown tup5-1 plants was also impaired, probably due to the root growth arrest (Fig. 1B). In contrast, the shoots of soil-grown tup5-1 mutants were morphologically similar to the wild type, flowered only approximately 2 d later and formed a normal root system (Fig. 1, D and E). This result indicated a potential role of light in inducing root growth inhibition in the tup5-1 mutants, which will be explored further below. [[FIGURE]] The tup5-1 mutation was located on the lower arm of chromosome I close to the telomere by marker-assisted gene mapping (Fig. 2A). No recombinants were found to further reduce the mapping interval of 88 kb containing 29 predicted genes. Therefore, 4- to 22-kb large subclones containing one to five predicted genes were generated from the two BAC clones T21F11 and F23A5 covering the tup5-1 mapping interval. These subclones were then transformed into tup5-1 plants to screen for root phenotype complementation. Three complementing BAC subclones contained only one predicted gene, At1g80600, in their common region. The tup5-1 allele showed as a single point mutation, a transition from G to A in the third exon of At1g80600 at base number 1735 of the unspliced sequence, leading to an altered amino acid sequence of the predicted protein (G424R; Fig. 2, A and B). Transformation of tup5-1 plants with the complementary DNA (cDNA) of TUP5 under control of the 35S promoter complemented the root phenotype (Fig. 2C), demonstrating that the mutation in At1g80600 caused the tup5-1 phenotype. [[FIGURE]] Protein sequence analysis identified TUP5 as a putative ACOAT (EC 2.6.1.11.). The protein is predicted to have a length of 457 amino acids and a Mr of 48.8. The enzyme catalyzes the transfer of an amino group from l-Glu to acetyl-l-Glu 5-semialdehyde, yielding α-ketoglutarate and acetyl-Orn (www.expasy.org/enzyme/2.6.1.11; Fig. 3A), using pyridoxal 5-P as a cofactor (CITATION). The synthesis of acetyl-Orn is the fourth step (from Glu) in de novo Arg biosynthesis (CITATION; Fig. 3B). Proteins with high sequence similarity to TUP5 are encoded by bacteria, fungi, and plants. A sequence alignment with different known and putative ACOATs showed that the amino acid mutated in tup5-1 (G424) was conserved in all enzymes from bacteria to higher plants, indicating that it is functionally relevant (Supplemental Fig. S1A). However, in silico analyses using different structure prediction programs have not been informative about the possible impact of the mutation on protein structure and catalytic activity (data not shown). The phylogenetic relationships of the seven aligned proteins correspond to the relationships between the source organisms. TUP5 of Arabidopsis is closely related to the Populus trichocarpa protein and farthest related to the bacterial and fungal ACOAT (Supplemental Fig. S1B). [[FIGURE]] tup5-1 is probably impaired in the biosynthesis of the amino acids that are produced downstream of the ACOAT enzymatic reaction in the Arg biosynthetic pathway (Fig. 3B; CITATION). Consistent with this assumption, it has been possible to complement the short root phenotype of tup5-1 by supplementation of the medium with acetyl-Orn, l-Orn, l-Cit, and l-Arg (Fig. 3, B and C; data not shown). A number of other metabolites linked to Arg biosynthesis, including different polyamines and the nitric oxide donor sodium nitroprusside, were not effective in restoring the tup5-1 root phenotype, indicating that the mutant phenotype is specifically linked to Arg biosynthesis (Supplemental Fig. S2). To test whether TUP5 has the predicted function as an ACOAT, we examined its ability to restore Arg autotrophy in the ACOAT-deficient yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) mutant strain Y37711. For this purpose, the genomic Arabidopsis TUP5 sequence and the TUP5 cDNA were cloned downstream of the strong constitutive promoter of the translation elongation factor1α (TEF) gene in yeast vector p423TEF (CITATION). The yeast mutant transformed with the empty vector p423TEF or the same vector containing the genomic TUP5 sequence were unable to grow on medium lacking Arg (Fig. 3D). In contrast, the yeast mutant Y37711 expressing the TUP5 cDNA became Arg autotrophic (Fig. 3D), thus confirming the function of TUP5 as an ACOAT. We measured the content of Arg and other amino acids and compared it with the wild-type content to analyze the consequences of the apparent block in Arg biosynthesis in the tup5-1 mutant. The content of free Arg in tup5-1 seedlings grown in vitro under long-day conditions was lowered to 31% of that of the wild type (Fig. 4A). Additional measurements in seedlings of different age (7, 11, and 17 d old) consistently showed a reduction of Arg content between 61% and 85% in tup5-1 (data not shown). In contrast, no difference in Arg content was found between tup5-1 and the wild type grown in darkness. Dark-grown seedlings of both genotypes showed a strong decrease of their Arg content (Fig. 4A). [[FIGURE]] The distribution of free Arg between root and shoot was unequal. Wild-type roots contained about 50 times less Arg than wild-type shoots (61 ± 11 compared with 3084 ± 673 nmol g–1 fresh weight; Fig. 4B). This was the most extreme difference in shoot/root distribution of all amino acids analyzed (Supplemental Fig. S3). The Arg content of tup5-1 shoots was approximately 39% of that of wild-type shoots (1214 ± 252 compared with 3084 ± 673 nmol g–1 fresh weight), which is similar to the difference found in whole seedlings. We analyzed the content of 18 different amino acids to explore whether the disruption of Arg biosynthesis also affects the level of other amino acids. Out of these, the level of 13 amino acids was increased in 11-d-old seedlings (Fig. 4C). The strongest increases of up to approximately 800% and 400% compared with the wild type were found for Gly and Gln, respectively. Interestingly, only Asn and Gln were increased in tup5-1 in 17-d-old seedlings, while the level of all other amino acids was comparable to the wild type, except for Arg, which was again reduced (Supplemental Fig. S4; data not shown). The TUP5 gene was fused at the 3′ end in frame to a GFP gene and positioned downstream of the 35S promoter to determine the subcellular localization of TUP5 (CITATION). The fusion gene complemented the tup5-1 root phenotype, indicating its functionality (data not shown). The subcellular localization of the TUP5-GFP fusion protein was analyzed by confocal laser scanning microscopy in leaf protoplasts obtained from stably transformed lines in wild-type background. The TUP5-GFP signal colocalized with the autofluorescence of chloroplasts, indicating a chloroplastic localization (Fig. 5). This is in good agreement with the database predictions of TargetP (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/; CITATION) and Aramemnon (http://aramemnon.botanik.uni-koeln.de/; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] The expression of TUP5 was examined by quantitative real-time reverse transcription (RT)-PCR in different organs and under different light conditions. TUP5 was expressed in all organs tested (root, rosette leaves, stem, flowers, and siliques). The highest expression was found in rosette leaves and the lowest in roots (Fig. 6A). The ubiquitous expression of TUP5 is consistent with the results of microarray analyses found in databases such as the eFP browser and Genevestigator (CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] The influence of white light on TUP5 expression was then studied because tup5-1 shows a light-dependent root phenotype. Seedlings were cultivated in standard conditions and then exposed to light or darkness for 24 h. The expression level of TUP5 in light-exposed seedlings was 3 times higher than in dark-exposed seedlings (Fig. 6B). We analyzed the consequences of lower and higher TUP5 gene expression to gain a better understanding of the role of TUP5. Loss-of-function analysis was carried out with two T-DNA insertion alleles of the SALK collection named tup5-2 and tup5-3 (CITATION). Sequencing confirmed the sites of both insertions within the third exon of the TUP5 gene (Fig. 2A). F1 populations of heterozygous self-fertilized parents of both lines were screened by PCR for homozygous progeny, but no homozygous line was found among 118 F1 plants tested for tup5-2 and 62 plants tested for tup5-3. This indicated that the homozygous state might be lethal for both alleles. Inspection of cleared siliques of heterozygous tup5-2 and tup5-3 plants revealed empty spaces between seeds, indicating premature termination of seed development (Fig. 7A). Microscopy examination showed that these spaces in the siliques contained aborted ovules or very small embryos (Supplemental Fig. S5). The percentage of abortion was about 42% ± 4% in tup5-2 and 35% ± 7% in tup5-3, while in the wild type and tup5-1, only 1% to 2% of abortion was found (Supplemental Table S1). [[FIGURE]] In addition, a meiotic drift was found in the F1 generation of heterozygous self-fertilized tup5-2 and tup5-3 lines. According to Mendel’s Laws, the ratio between wild-type and heterozygous F1 plants should be 1:2. Only 36% ± 10% of the plants in tup5-2 and 43% ± 11% in tup5-3 were heterozygous for mutated tup5 allele (Supplemental Table S2). All other plants contained the TUP5/TUP5 allele combination. Because of this strong underrepresentation of the T-DNA insertion alleles in the segregating progeny, the ratio between wild-type and heterozygous F1 plants was 1.7:1 in tup5-2 progeny and 1.3:1 in tup5-3 progeny. Reciprocal crosses of tup5-2 and tup5-3 heterozygous plants with the wild type were carried out to find out whether embryo development, pollen, and/or ovule fertility were impaired. PCR analysis of F1 progenies showed that the T-DNA insertion allele was transmitted by both pollen and ovule. However, the transmission frequency in both cases was reduced: Instead of 50%, only approximately 24% to 42% (20 heterozygous plants of 82 plants [24%] in the case of wild type × tup5-3, 10 of 24 [42%] for wild type × tup5-2, and 18 of 48 plants [37%] in tup5-3 × wild type) of the F1 generation carried the T-DNA insertion alleles, indicating that the tup5-2 and tup5-3 alleles reduce male and female gametophytic fitness leading to meiotic drift. In addition, the low T-DNA allele frequency in the self-fertilized tup5-2 and tup5-3 lines and in the reciprocal crosses suggests an impairment of embryo development even in a heterozygous state. Taken together, null mutation of the TUP5 gene impairs gametophytic fitness and is lethal at early stages of embryo development. Plants overexpressing TUP5 were produced by transformation of the wild type with the 35S:TUP5 gene used previously for complementation to test the consequences of increased TUP5 expression (Fig. 2C). TUP5 overexpression in the wild type caused two visible morphological changes: interveinal chlorosis in cauline leaves and the formation of wrinkled, bumpy siliques (Fig. 7, B and C). Interestingly, the Arg level was not increased above the wild type in cultivated 35S:TUP5 lines in vitro (Fig. 7D). As described above, the root phenotype of tup5-1 mutants differed when plants were grown in vitro or on soil (Fig. 1, B, C, and E). The roots of tup5-1 seedlings grown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium in short-day conditions grew longer than the roots of tup5-1 seedlings cultivated under long-day conditions (data not shown). This indicated that day length, and therefore light, influenced root growth and not a component of the growth medium. The roots of tup5-1 seedlings of different ages cultivated in darkness consistently immediately stopped growth when they were shifted into light. Microscopy analysis of the root tips of light-grown tup5-1 plants revealed that the meristem had lost its organized structure, the cells had differentiated, and starch granules were absent in the columella cells (Fig. 8A). In contrast, dark-grown tup5-1 seedlings had a root meristem similar to that of the wild type (Fig. 8A). [[FIGURE]] Root growth of tup5-1 was tested under various monochromatic light qualities to find out whether a specific part of the light spectrum causes this switch from an indeterminate growth to determinate growth. The inhibition of root growth in tup5-1 was induced by blue light but not by red or far red light (Fig. 8B). The root growth inhibition caused by blue light was dose dependent (Fig. 8C). The root length was not significantly different between tup5-1 and the wild type up to 0.2 µmol m−2 s−1, while a blue light intensity of 0.6 µmol m−2 s−1 or more inhibited root elongation in tup5-1. To test whether a known light signaling pathway is involved in mediating this effect, we combined by crossing tup5-1 with the following light receptor or light signaling mutants: the phytochrome apoprotein mutant phyB-1 (hy3-Bo64; CITATION; CITATION), the phytochrome chromophore biosynthesis mutant hy2-1 (CITATION), the cryptochrome apoprotein mutant cry1 (hy4-1; CITATION), and the bZIP transcription factor mutant hy5-1 (CITATION). Analysis of the double mutants in the F2 generation showed that none of these mutants suppressed the tup5-1 root phenotype (data not shown). Therefore, the light receptors or light signaling factors analyzed are not epistatic to tup5-1. Wild-type and tup5-1 plants were grown in vitro in glass tubes with illumination of the whole plant or illumination of only the shoot to find out whether the perception of the inhibiting light takes place in the shoot or in the root. When grown in light, tup5-1 exhibited its typical severe root growth defect (Fig. 8D). In contrast, when only the shoots were illuminated, the root length of tup5-1 increased significantly. Although tup5-1 roots did not reach the length of wild-type roots, which was probably due to the imperfect darkening of the roots in the experimental setup, it can be concluded that the root itself perceives the inhibiting light signal causing the tup5-1 root phenotype. We studied the cell cycle marker gene CYCB1;1pro:GUS-DBox (CITATION) and QC25 (CITATION), which specifically marks the quiescent center (QC), in the tup5-1 background to follow more closely the light-dependent switch to determinate growth and the subsequent loss of the root meristem. The meristem of tup5-1 roots grown in vitro in light showed a strongly reduced cell cycle-dependent GUS activity compared with the wild type. A weak signal was visible in only a few cells (Fig. 9A). The QC-dependent GUS activity was reduced in light-grown roots of tup5-1. When the meristematic structure was not yet completely lost, a light-blue color showed a decreased GUS activity in the QC cells (Fig. 9B). The shape of the QC cells was also changed in tup5-1: While the cells were flattened in the wild-type meristem, they stretched parallel to the root axis in tup5-1 (Fig. 9B). When the loss of meristematic structure progressed, the GUS activity in the QC of tup5-1 roots almost vanished (Fig. 9B). As tup5-1 was found in a screen for callus formation on low concentrations of cytokinin and auxin, we also examined the hormonal status in the differentiated tup5-1 root meristem using the cytokinin-sensitive marker ARR5:GUS (CITATION; CITATION) and the auxin reporter DR5:GUS (CITATION; CITATION). The GUS activity pattern in both cases was much weaker in tup5-1 than in the wild type or had almost vanished in the mutant root (Fig. 9, C and D). Nevertheless, DR5:GUS expression marking in pericycle cells at the beginning of lateral root primordia formation (CITATION) was also observed in the short growth-arrested tup5-1 primary roots (Fig. 9E). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! tup5-1 was isolated from an ethyl methanesulfonate-mutagenized population of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) ecotype Columbia-0 glabra (CITATION). The T-DNA insertional mutants tup5-2 (N878354) and tup5-3 (N875828) and the light signaling pathway mutants phyB-1 (N69; CITATION; CITATION), hy5-1 (N71; CITATION), cry1 (N70; CITATION), and hy2-1 (N68; CITATION) were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Center (http://arabidopsis.info/) and the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (http://www.biosci.ohio-state.edu/pcmb/Facilities/abrc/abrchome.htm). tup5-1 was combined by crossing with the marker gene lines CYCB1;1pro:GUS-DBox, QC25, ARR5:GUS, and DR5:GUS provided by Peter Doerner, Sabrina Sabatini, and Joe Kieber, respectively (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Unless stated otherwise, plants were grown at 22°C under long-day conditions (16-h light/8-h dark) on soil in a greenhouse (light intensity: 150–300 µmol m−2 s−1; natural light supplemented with high-pressure sodium vapor lamps, type SON-T, 2,000K) or in vitro in a growth chamber (light intensity: 150 µmol m−2 s−1). In vitro cultivation was on solid medium containing 1× MS salts (Duchefa Biochemie), 0.1 g L−1 myo-inositol, 0.5 g L−1 MES, 20 mg L−1 thiamine, 1 mg L−1 nicotinic acid, 1 mg L−1 pyridoxine, 1 mg L−1 biotin, 3% (w/v) Suc, and 0.9% (w/v) agar, pH 5.7, or in liquid medium containing 0.5× MS salts, 0.5 g L−1 MES, and 1% (w/v) Suc, pH 6 (modified from CITATION). Homozygous tup5-1 plants were crossed with plants of the ecotype Landsberg erecta. The mapping was done with approximately 2,300 homozygous mutant plants of the F2 generation, as described by CITATION. No more recombinants were found at a mapping interval of 88 kb. Therefore, DNA fragments of the two BAC clones T21F11 (CITATION) and F23A5 (CITATION) covering the tup5-1 mapping interval were used for complementation and gene identification. To generate subclones from the BAC clones T21F11 and F23A5, these were cut with appropriate restriction enzymes, separated by gel electrophoresis, the appropriate bands purified from the gel using QIAEX II gel extraction kit or QIAquick gel extraction kit (Qiagen), and cloned into vector pCB302 (CITATION). The resulting plasmids were used for transformation of tup5-1. The 35S:TUP5 construct was produced using the TUP5 cDNA clone U15579 provided by Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (CITATION). The cDNA was recombined into the vector pB2GW7 (CITATION) with LR clonase (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer’s protocol. To generate the P35S:TUP5-GFP gene fusion, the cDNA of TUP5 was amplified from clone U15579 using the gene-specific primers 5′-ATGGCGTCTCTTAGCCAAATC-3′ (forward) and 5′-ATCAAGCGCAGTCAAATTTT-3′ (reverse; CITATION). The resulting PCR product was used as a template to add 12 bp of Gateway attachment sites at the 5′ ends with the primers 5′-AAAAAGCAGGCTATGGCGTCTCTTAGCCAAATC-3′ (forward) and 5′-AGAAAGCTGGGTCATCAAGCGCAGTCAAATTTT-3′ (reverse). Finally, the full-length attachment sites were added in a PCR reaction with the primers 5′-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCT-3′ (forward) and 5′-GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGT-3′ (reverse). The resulting PCR product was inserted into the donor vector pDONR221 via recombination to create an entry clone for further use. The resulting entry clone was recombined with pB7FWG2 (CITATION), which inserts the TUP5 gene between the 35S promoter and the GFP gene creating the P35S:TUP5-GFP fusion. The resulting plasmids were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101:pMP90 (CITATION), which was used for Arabidopsis transformation (CITATION). Transformants were selected on medium containing the appropriate antibiotics. The yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) strain with the accession number Y37711 (genotype: BY4743; Mat a/α; his3Δ1/his3Δ1; leu2Δ0/leu2Δ0; lys2Δ0/LYS2; MET15/met15Δ0; ura3Δ0/ura3Δ0; YOL140w::kanMX4/YOL140w::kanMX4) in which the ACOAT gene YOL140w (ARG8) is deleted was provided by Euroscarf. The genomic sequence and the cDNA of TUP5 were amplified with the primers 5′-CGGGATCCATGGCGTCTCTTAGCCAAATC-3′ (forward) and 5′-ACGCGTCGACTCAATCAAGCGCAGTCAAAT-3′ (reverse), generating a BamHI restriction site at the 5′ end and a SalI restriction site at the 3′ end for plasmid construction. The PCR products were inserted into the yeast vector p423TEF by directional cloning using the BamHI and SalI sites (CITATION). The resulting plasmid was transformed into Y37711 by the lithium acetate method (CITATION; CITATION). Yeast transformants were first selected for His autotrophy and ampicillin resistance. Transformed yeast strains were grown on synthetic defined medium containing 20 mg Arg L−1 or no Arg to test Arg autotrophy. Total RNA was purified from Arabidopsis tissue by the TRIzol method, as described by CITATION. cDNA synthesis, quantitative real-time RT-PCR, and data analysis were performed as described by CITATION using 7500 FAST Software_v2.0.1 (Applied Biosystems). In addition to UBC10, we used At3g25800 as a reference gene for normalization (CITATION). TUP5 was amplified with the primers 5′-TCGGTGTGACTCCTGACAT-3′ (forward) and 5′-ACTGCACACAAGAGGGCT-3′ (reverse). The reference gene At3g25800 was amplified with the primers 5′-CCATTAGATCTTGTCTCTCTGCT-3′ (forward) and 5′-GACAAAACCCGTACCGAG-3′ (reverse) for gene expression analyses. One to three leaves from stably transformed P35S:TUP5:GFP transgenic Arabidopsis lines were treated according to the protoplast isolation protocol described by CITATION. The protoplasts were analyzed for subcellular localization of the TUP5-GFP fusion protein with a Leica TCS SP2 confocal laser scanning microscope. An excitation wavelength of 488 nm and a filter of 510 to 550 nm were used for the analysis of GFP fluorescence signal and an excitation wavelength of 488 nm and a filter of 610 to 680 nm for the autofluorescence signal of chloroplasts. The plant material was treated following the GUS staining protocol described by CITATION. The tissue was cleared and mounted according to CITATION. Microscopy was carried out with an Axioskop 2 plus with AxioCam ICc3 (Zeiss). Seedlings were cultivated in liquid one-half-strength MS medium for 7 d under long-day conditions at standard light intensity (150 µmol m−2 s−1), at low light intensity (3 µmol m−2 s−1), or in darkness. After harvest, seedlings (approximately 100 mg per sample) were washed once with 5 mL sterile aqua bidest., frozen in liquid nitrogen, and stored at −80°C until extraction. Shoot and root samples were harvested from 11-d-old seedlings grown under long-day conditions on vertical plates containing 1× MS medium. The samples were extracted, derivatized, and analyzed as described by CITATION. The protein sequence of TUP5 was used for a search for homologous genes using BLAST search (CITATION). The amino acid sequences of six homologous proteins from different species were aligned with TUP5 using ClustalW 1.83 (http://www.ch.embnet.org/software/ClustalW.html; CITATION), and shading of conserved amino acids in the alignment was carried out with BOXSHADE (http://www.ch.embnet.org/software/BOX_form.html). The fraction of sequences that had to agree for shading was set at 0.9. The phylogenetic analyses were conducted using MEGA5 (CITATION). The phylogenetic tree was revised with CorelDRAW 12. The prediction of subcellular localization was carried out using TargetP (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/; CITATION) and Aramemnon (http://aramemnon.botanik.uni-koeln.de/; CITATION). Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL database or the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative database under the following accession numbers: TUP5/WIN1 (AT1G80600), Populus trichocarpa unknown gene ABK95025.1, rice (Oryza sativa ssp. japonica cultivar group; GI:51854368), putative ACOAT, Physcomitrella patens ssp. patens (GI:162664563), predicted protein ACOAT family, Chlamydomonas reinhardtii ACOAT (GI:159480034), yeast ACOAT (GI:151945496), and Escherichia coli ACOAT (GI:242378886). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Amino acid alignment and phylogenetic analysis of known ACOATs and highly similar genes from different species. Supplemental Figure S2. Metabolites of the Arg biosynthesis pathway and related compounds tested for a complementing effect on the tup5-1 root phenotype. Supplemental Figure S3. Free amino acid content differs between wild-type shoots and roots. Supplemental Figure S4. Content of free Gln and Asn in 35S:TUP5 transgenic lines. Supplemental Figure S5. Aborted seeds in siliques of heterozygous tup5-2 plants. Supplemental Table S1. Percentage of aborted seeds in siliques of wild-type, tup5-1, heterozygous tup5-2, and tup5-3 plants. Supplemental Table S2. Segregation analysis of heterozygous self-fertilized tup5-2 and tup5-3 F1 populations.
