!~ABS~! The xylem and phloem, major conducting and supporting tissues in vascular plants, are established by cell division and cell-type specification in the procambium/cambium. The organization of the xylem, phloem, and procambium/cambium is tightly controlled. However, the underlying regulatory mechanisms remain largely unknown. In this study, we report the discovery of two transcription factors, AT-HOOK MOTIF NUCLEAR LOCALIZED PROTEIN 3 (AHL3) and AHL4, which regulate vascular tissue boundaries in Arabidopsis thaliana roots. In either of the knockout mutants of AHL3 and AHL4, encoding closely related AT-hook transcription factors, a misspecification of tissue boundaries between the xylem and procambium occurred and ectopic xylem developed in the procambium domain. In plants, specific types of transcription factors can serve as direct intercellular signals by moving from one cell to another, playing crucial roles in tissue patterning. Adding to this paradigm, AHL4 moves actively from the procambium to xylem in the root meristem to regulate the tissue boundaries. When the intercellular movement of AHL4 was impaired, AHL4 could not complement the xylem phenotype in the ahl4. Furthermore, AHL4 revealed unique characteristics in that it interacts with AHL3 in vivo and that this interaction facilitates their intercellular trafficking. Taken together, this study uncovered a novel mechanism in vascular tissue patterning that requires the intercellular trafficking of two interacting transcription factors.
!~RES~! Xylem precursors in the root are established in the meristem close to the underlying quiescent center (QC) (CITATION). In Arabidopsis, five or six xylem precursor cells form a single row of xylem axis, among which the periphery and center differentiate into protoxylem and metaxylem vessels, respectively (Figures 1A, 1B, and 1E). To identify transcription factors potentially involved in this xylem patterning, we surveyed and selected transcription factors that are enriched in the xylem precursor cells using high-resolution microarray-based gene expression data available for most cell types in the Arabidopsis root (CITATION). Fifteen transcription factors were chosen for further characterization based on the selection criteria of at least twofold enrichment in the xylem precursor cell type over other root cell types with corrected P values < 0.001 (see Supplemental Figure 1A online). To identify the transcription factors impaired in xylem patterning, T-DNA insertion lines of each candidate were screened for abnormal xylem phenotypes. Insertion lines associated with genes for three transcription factors (i.e., AT1G29950, AT4G25320, and AT5G51590) exhibited abnormal xylem phenotypes. Among these, AT5G51590 (AHL4) and AT4G25320 (AHL3) encode proteins that belong to the AT-hook family (SALK_124619, ahl4-1; and FLAG_445H04, ahl3-1 hereafter). T-DNA insertions disrupted the third exon of AHL4 in ahl4-1 and the first exon of AHL3 in ahl3-1, respectively (see Supplemental Figure 2A online). Real-time RT-PCR analysis showed that AHL4 expression was reduced by 99% in the ahl4-1 compared with the wild-type root and that AHL3 expression was reduced by 60% in the ahl3-1 (see Supplemental Figure 2B online). Since these data indicated that ahl4-1 is likely a null mutant, whereas ahl3-1 is not, we first characterized ahl4-1 for its vascular tissue patterning in the root. In ahl4-1, we observed additional strands of protoxylem (Figures 1C and 1F; closed arrowheads) and metaxylem (Figures 1D and 1G; open arrowheads). This extra protoxylem phenotype was detected in ∼75% of 30 individual ahl4-1 plants examined (see Supplemental Figure 3 online; P value for λ2 test = 1.59547E-48). Here, we used the protoxylem phenotype to further dissect AHL4 function. Our histological analysis did not indicate any obvious defect in the phloem patterning of ahl4-1 (Figures 1E to 1G). Extra xylem vessel formation occurred in the maturation zone of the ahl4-1 root. However, cell type–specific root expression data indicated that AHL4 is expressed in the root meristem before vascular cells begin differentiation. To identify the role of AHL4 in the root meristem, we introduced several vascular cell type–specific markers and compared their expression patterns in ahl4-1 to those in the wild-type root meristem. First, we investigated the impact of AHL4 on xylem domain specification using ProTMO5:erGFP (endoplasmic reticulum–localized green fluorescent protein), which is specifically expressed in the xylem precursor cells (Figure 1H) (CITATION). In contrast with the wild type, where ProTMO5:erGFP expression is restricted to a single row of xylem precursors (Figure 1H), the expression of ProTMO5:erGFP in ahl4-1 expanded to the adjacent cells in the procambium domain (Figure 1K; see Supplemental Figure 4 online). This expression pattern is consistent with the formation of extra xylem strands in ahl4-1. Another marker, ProAHP6:erGFP, is expressed in a protoxylem precursor and the two neighboring pericycle cells (Figure 1I) (CITATION). Consistent with TMO5, the expression domain of ProAHP6:erGFP also expanded in ahl4-1, being detected in the cells which would belong to procambium in the wild type (Figure 1L). These xylem marker analyses suggested that the proper formation of boundaries between the procambium and xylem might require AHL4. To further test this idea, we checked the status of procambium in ahl4-1 by introducing ProARR5:erGFP, which precisely marks procambium domains that neighbor xylem precursors in the root meristem (Figure 1J) (CITATION). As expected, ProARR5:erGFP in ahl4-1 was absent in the cells where xylem markers had expanded (Figure 1M, arrowheads). Next, to test whether phloem development is affected, we introduced ProAPL:erGFP, which is expressed in the developing protophloem sieve element and then switches to the companion cells and metaphloem sieve element, into ahl4-1 (CITATION). However, as indicated by our histological analysis, no obvious changes in ProAPL:erGFP expression were detected in ahl4-1 (see Supplemental Figure 5 online). Note also that the overall root growth in ahl4-1 was normal. Collectively, our results support the conclusion that AHL4 is specifically involved in defining the boundary between the xylem and procambium. To gain insight into the spatio-temporal regulation of xylem development by AHL4, we generated transcriptional and translational fusion lines of AHL4. For this, we produced constructs driving the expression of erGFP or β-glucuronidase (GUS) and the coding region of AHL4 fused to free GFP (AHL4-GFP), respectively, under the 2-kb-long upstream intergenic region of AHL4. When ProAHL4:AHL4-GFP was introduced into ahl4-1, all six independent transgenic lines complemented its mutant phenotype, negating the formation of ectopic xylem strands (Figures 2A and 2B; see Supplemental Table 1 online). This result indicates that the AHL4-GFP fusion protein is fully functional and that the selected promoter is sufficient for AHL4 activity. We next analyzed the spatial domain where AHL4-GFP is expressed. Consistent with its regulation of the boundaries between the xylem and procambium in the root meristem, AHL4-GFP was enriched in the stele of a root meristem (Figure 2C). The expression level of transcriptional erGFP was very weak (see Supplemental Figure 6A online) but mostly detected in the procambium, which was different from the expression domain detected by ProAHL4:AHL4-GFP. We further confirmed this discrepancy between transcriptional and protein expression domains using the transcriptional GUS line. Contrary to the ubiquitous distribution of AHL4-GFP throughout the stele cells of the root meristem, the GUS expression was specific to the procambium (Figure 2D). AHL4 was originally selected as a gene enriched in the xylem precursor; however, ProAHL4:GUS expression suggested that the AHL4 transcriptional domain is specific to the procambium. This is likely because the selection for xylem precursor enriched genes was made in the absence of procambium profiling data from the current root expression map. [[FIGURE]] The spatial expansion of the AHL4 protein domain from the transcriptional domain indicated that AHL4 proteins or RNAs might move between cells. To examine this further, we analyzed the spatial distribution of AHL4 proteins expressed under the stele-specific CYTOKININ RESPONSE 1 (CRE1) promoter (Figures 2E and 2I) (CITATION). Consistent with observations made with transcriptional and translational fusion lines, AHL4-GFP signals expanded outside the stele and reached the lateral root cap cells in the meristem region (Figures 2F and 2J). In the meristematic zone, we always detected AHL4-GFP in the endodermis, where CRE1 is not normally expressed. Though most of the mobile transcription factors have been shown to move as proteins, there are cases when mRNAs move between cells (CITATION; CITATION). To test the latter possibility for AHL4, we examined the mRNA domains of AHL4:GFP in ProCRE1:AHL4:GFP transgenic plants by performing RNA in situ hybridization. An antisense GFP probe successfully detected AHL4:GFP mRNA only in the stele cells (Figure 2H), which was consistent with the control experiment employing ProCRE1:erGFP (Figure 2G) (CITATION). Based on the results from expression analyses of proteins and mRNAs of AHL4:GFP in the ProCRE1:AHL4:GFP transgenic plants, we concluded that the AHL4 protein, rather than its transcript acts non-cell-autonomously. Numerous studies have shown that many mobile proteins move from one cell to another through plasmodesmata (PD) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Given that the size exclusion limit of PD in the root meristem is suggested to be around 60 kD (CITATION; CITATION), AHL4-GFP (72 kD) might move between cells in a targeted manner. To gain a better understanding of AHL4 movement, the coding region of AHL4 was fused with tandem yellow fluorescent proteins (YFPs; 3x or 4xYFP) driven by the CRE1 promoter and introduced into an ahl4-1 mutant. The extra xylem phenotype associated with ahl4-1 was complemented in all nine transgenic lines expressing ProCRE1:AHL4:3x/4xYFPs (Table 1). This result shows that fusion proteins between AHL4 and tandem YFPs are also fully functional. We then analyzed their cell-to-cell movement capacity relative to ProCRE1:AHL4:GFP(1x). Triple and quadruple YFP have large molecular masses (81 and 108 kD, respectively) and therefore can significantly reduce the protein movement between cells (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Our confocal analysis suggested that adding tandem YFPs significantly interferes with the movement of AHL4 but does not abolish the movement activity completely (Figure 2K and 2L). Next, we calculated how frequently movement occurred for the AHL4-GFP and AHL4-tandem-YFP proteins. AHL4-GFP movement from the stele to endodermis was detected in all five independent lines, accounting for a 100% rate. By contrast, only 75 and 60% of the transgenic lines expressing AHL4-3x and 4xYFP, respectively, exhibited protein trafficking from the stele to endodermis (Table 1). We then quantified the movement of proteins in the same transgenic lines by measuring and comparing fluorescence signals in the pericycle cells and the neighboring endodermal cells (for further details about the imaging and calculation, see Supplemental Figure 7 online and Methods). The average fluorescence intensity of AHL4-GFP in the endodermis was 62% (±5.7% sd) of the fluorescence measured in the adjacent pericycle. By contrast, the signal intensities measured for AHL4-3xYFPs and AHL4-4xYFP were 29% ± 7.4% (sd) and 27% ± 8.9% (sd), respectively, of the adjacent pericycle (Figure 2M). The levels of AHL4-GFP and AHL4-tandem-YFP were similar in the pericycle, indicating that the low endodermis to pericycle fluorescence ratio measured for AHL4-tandem-YFP is not the result of decreased expression (Figure 2N). These results indicate that AHL4 has a strong tendency to move between cells, which cannot be easily blocked by increasing its protein size to a great extent. To gain insight into the non-cell-autonomous function of AHL4 in developmental control, we expressed AHL4 fused with 3xYFPs under the AHL4 promoter in ahl4-1. Similar to what was observed in ProCRE1:AHL4:3xYFP plants, fusing 3xYFP to AHL4 restricted its movement only partially (see Supplemental Table 1 online). Next, to test whether the movement of AHL4 into the xylem precursors contributes to the complementation of the extra protoxylem phenotype, we measured the frequencies of the events detecting AHL4-3x/4xYFP signals in the xylem precursors and associated normal xylem phenotypes using 10 individual progenies each from six independent transgenic lines. Unlike ProAHL4:AHL4:GFP, which rescued the xylem phenotype of ahl4-1 in 100% of plants examined, ProAHL4:AHL4:3xYFP rescued the xylem phenotype only in ∼50% (see Supplemental Table 1 and Supplemental Figure 3 online). In seedlings where AHL4-3xYFP was detected in the xylem precursors, all 31 exhibited a normal xylem phenotype (Figures 2O and 2P). By contrast, in the absence of AHL4-3xYFP in the xylem precursors, the extra xylem phenotype was not rescued in any case (29/29) (Figures 2Q and 2R). Such a strong correlation between AHL4 movement to the xylem precursors and xylem phenotype indicates that the movement of AHL4 from procambial cells to xylem precursors is required to define and maintain the boundary between the xylem and procambium. A previous phylogenetic analysis suggested that AHL3 is the most closely related homolog of AHL4 in Arabidopsis (CITATION). Given that AHL3 and AHL4 share 69% amino acid similarity and that both play a role in xylem patterning, they might function in a partially redundant manner. However, the ahl3-1 ahl4-1 double mutant did not show any additional xylem phenotype to what was observed in each single mutant (Figure 3A). Real-time RT-PCR showed that the expression level of AHL4 was not affected in the ahl3-1 background or vice versa (see Supplemental Figure 2B online). We confirmed this again by generating and phenotyping artificial microRNA lines that simultaneously knocked down AHL3 and AHL4. These plants exhibited a similar phenotype to the single and double mutants (see Supplemental Figures 8C to 8F online). In addition, ProAHL4:AHL4:GFP introduced into ahl3-1 was not able to rescue the extra xylem phenotype despite the clear presence of AHL4-GFP protein in the xylem precursors (Figures 3B and 3C). Collectively, these results suggest that AHL3 and AHL4 function in a complementary manner (see Discussion). [[FIGURE]] For AHL3 to function complementarily to AHL4, it is likely to be present in the same spatial domain as AHL4 (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Indeed, AHL3-GFP proteins expressed under the AHL3 promoter in the wild-type background were observed in the nuclei of both procambium and xylem precursors of the root meristem, strengthening the notion that they function in a complementary manner (Figure 3D). However, GUS expressed under the same AHL3 promoter was mainly restricted to the endodermis in the late elongation zone and onwards (see Supplemental Figures 6B and 6C online), revealing different distribution patterns from the AHL3-GFP. Thus, AHL3 proteins, which are generated in the elongation and maturation zones of a root, seem to move down to the root meristem through the stele. Next, we investigated whether AHL3 and AHL4 form a functional protein complex by performing yeast two-hybrid assays. This experiment showed that they undergo not only homomeric but also heteromeric interactions in yeast (Figure 3E). To demonstrate their interaction directly in vivo, we next performed fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) analysis using an enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) and mCherry pair by employing acceptor photobleaching. This method is useful for determining the extent of FRET by monitoring an increase in donor (e.g., EGFP) fluorescence after acceptor (e.g., mCherry) photobleaching (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). First, an EGFP and mCherry pair was used as the FRET negative control by coexpressing them in Arabidopsis leaf epidermal cells via biolistic DNA delivery. The nuclei of the target cells were selected as the region of interest (ROI) to monitor the FRET. Multichannel images collected before bleaching showed the colocalization of EGFP and mCherry clearly, with similar signal intensities in the nucleus (Figure 4A). When the acceptor was bleached in this experiment, a 75% reduction in mCherry emission was observed. However, this caused a negligible change in the signal intensity of the donor EGFP (Figures 4A and 4B), confirming that no FRET occurs between the free EGFP and mCherry even though they are colocalized. Additional controls with combinatorial fluorescent pairs (i.e., EGFP/AHL4-mCherry and AHL3-EGFP/mCherry) also confirmed the absence of FRET (Figures 4C and 4D). [[FIGURE]] We then examined the existence of FRET between AHL3-EGFP as donor and AHL4-mCherry as acceptor under the same experimental conditions and parameters used for acceptor photobleaching of the negative controls. To monitor the FRET of this pair, the nuclei of target cells coexpressing both proteins were selected once more. Bleaching of the acceptor resulted in ∼80% loss of the AHL4-mCherry signal in a typical experiment as shown in Figures 4E and 4F. In contrast with the negative controls, however, the acceptor bleaching led to a significant gain in the AHL3-EGFP signal by ∼13% without background subtraction. For quantitative analysis, three independent FRET experiments for all combinations were subsequently performed. The result showed that the mean FRET efficiency between AHL3-EGFP and AHL4-mCherry was 20%, which was statistically significant compared with the mean values, 3 to 5%, of the negative controls (Figure 4G). This result provides solid evidence that the heteromeric complexes can form in planta. What about homomeric complexes, as suggested by the yeast two-hybrid experiment? Intriguingly, the FRET efficiency of homomeric AHL4 formation was statistically not different from the negative controls. By contrast, the FRET efficiency of homomeric AHL3 was slightly above the threshold level but still significantly lower than that of the AHL3/4 heteromeric complex (Figure 4G). Based on these FRET analyses, the heteromeric complex is likely the more prevalent form than the homomeric complex in planta. These FRET experiments firmly establish in vivo interaction between AHL4 and AHL3 and that this interaction is necessary for successful boundary formation between the xylem and procambium (see Discussion). Cell-to-cell movement of some transcription factors is influenced by their physical interaction with other transcription factors (CITATION; CITATION). Having established in vivo interaction between AHL3 and AHL4, we asked how their interaction relates to the cell-to-cell movement. To this end, we employed transient expression assays using Arabidopsis leaf tissues. AHL4 and AHL3 coding regions were fused to mCherry and EGFP, respectively, and biolistically bombarded into leaves detached from 3-week-old Arabidopsis Columbia-0 (Col-0). Control bombardment using vector plasmids expressing free EGFP (pcGC) or mCherry (pdCC) resulted in cell-to-cell movement in ∼30 to 50% of transfected cells (Table 2), ranging from limited (single cell layer) to extensive (more than two cell layers) movement, as has been observed previously under similar experimental conditions (CITATION). AHL4-mCherry or AHL3-EGFP alone resulted in single epidermal cell expression only, revealing no movement activity. The total number of transfected cells examined was 144 and 187 each (Table 2). This result is not surprising, given that the intercellular movement of non-cell-autonomous transcription factors functioning in roots, such as SHORTROOT (SHR), is influenced by a cell type–specific factor, SCARECROW, for example (CITATION; CITATION). Expression data from the eFP Browser database indicate that neither AHL3 nor AHL4 is significantly expressed in the examined leaf developmental stage (CITATION; see Supplemental Figure 1B online). Next, we examined the intercellular movement of AHL4 in the presence of AHL3. As controls for dual-protein trafficking, we performed a combinatorial experiment in which AHL4-mCherry was cobombarded with pdGC for EGFP and AHL3-EGFP with pdCC for mCherry. These combinations showed that although free EGFP or mCherry moved out of the cotransfected target cell at a normal frequency, AHL4-mCherry or AHL3-EGFP did not (Figures 5A to 5F). This result is consistent with the lack of movement of AHL4 or AHL3 when expressed alone. However, to our surprise, when AHL4 and AHL3 were coexpressed, their movement into a neighboring epidermal cell was observed (Figures 5G to 5I). Interestingly, the fluorescent signals associated with both proteins were dispersed throughout the cytoplasm in addition to strong nuclear expression within the target cells, while accumulating disproportionately in the nucleus within the neighboring cell into which they moved. Although the occurrence of this movement was observed at a low frequency (3%) and the extent of movement was limited to a single neighboring cell, this movement was reproducible and consistent in multiple repeats (Table 2). This result does not address whether these proteins move as a complex per se. However, it supports the notion that coexpression facilitates their movement. [[FIGURE]] Having found that AHL3 cotrafficks with AHL4 in leaf epidermis, we queried whether AHL3 is also capable of moving between root cells. Consistent with the bombardment assay, we observed GFP signals within the endodermis of the transgenic plants that expressed ProCRE1:AHL3:GFP in the wild-type background (Figure 3F). We also investigated whether the intercellular trafficking of AHL4 is facilitated by AHL3 as shown in the leaves, by examining AHL4-GFP localization in the ahl3-1 roots expressing ProAHL4:AHL4:GFP (Figure 3B). However, we did not find any significant reduction in the frequencies of xylem localization of AHL4-GFP in the ahl3-1. This result suggests that AHL4 movement is not fully dependent on AHL3, AHL4 may move on its own in the root, or another member of the AHL family may substitute for AHL3 in promoting AHL4 movement. Given that AHL4 requires AHL3 for activating downstream components, such a heteromeric complex would be functionally critical regardless of its involvement in the cell-to-cell mobility.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Col-0 was used. Seeds were surface sterilized, plated (0.5× Murashige and Skoog [MS] medium with 1% Suc), and grown under a 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle at 22 to 23°C in a plant growth chamber. ahl4-1 (SALK_124619) was obtained from the ABRC, and ahl3-1 (FLAG_445H04) was obtained from Versailles Genetics and Plant Breeding Laboratory Arabidopsis thaliana Resource Centre (INRA Versailles France). The following marker lines were characterized previously: ProTMO5:erGFP (CITATION), ProARR5:erGFP (CITATION), ProAHP6:erGFP (CITATION), and ProCRE1:erGFP (CITATION). The primers used for genotyping are listed in Supplemental Table 2 online. Gateway cloning technology (Invitrogen) was used for DNA manipulations. AHL4, AHL3, and CRE1 promoters were amplified from Arabidopsis Col-0 genomic DNA and cloned into pDONR P4_P1R. AHL3 and AHL4 cDNA were cloned into pDONR221. 3xYFP and 4xYFP in pDONR P2R_P3 have been previously described (CITATION). ProCRE1:AHL3/4:GFP, ProAHL4:erGFP, ProAHL4:AHL4:GFP, and ProAHL3:AHL3:GFP were constructed in dpGreen-Bar (CITATION) by MultiSite Gateway LR recombination. ProCRE1:AHL4:3x/4xYFP and ProAHL4:GUS were constructed into dpGreen-BarT. A suitable target site for the microRNA targeting AHL3/4 was identified and generated by following the instructions on http://wmd3.weigelworld.org/cgi-bin/webapp.cgi, except that oligoA was modified to clone amiRNA-AHL3-4 into a pENTR/D-TOPO vector. ProCRE1:amiRNA-AHL3-4 was constructed into dpGreen-BarT by MultiSite Gateway LR recombination. All clones in the binary vector were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 with pSOUP and transformed into either the wild type or ahl4-1. Coding regions of AHL3 and AHL4 were introduced into pDEST22 and pDEST32 by Gateway LR recombination to fuse AHL3 and AHL4 with the GAL4 activation domain and the GAL4 DNA binding domain, respectively. For the coexpression and trafficking experiments, AHL4 and AHL3 were cloned into the pdGC and pdCC expression vectors that are designed to produce C-terminal fluorescent fusion proteins (CITATION; CITATION). Briefly, AHL4 and AHL3 open reading frames were PCR amplified using Phusion Taq polymerase (NEB) followed by restriction enzyme double digestion with XhoI and KpnI and direct cloning into XhoI- and KpnI-digested pdGC and pdCC, respectively. The primers used for cloning are listed in Supplemental Table 2 online. All seedling samples were collected at 6 d after germination. Confocal images were obtained using a Leica TCS SP5 laser scanning confocal microscope with the preset excitation/emission wavelengths of 488 nm/505 to 530 nm for GFP, 510 nm/525 to 560 nm for YFP, and 561 nm/591 to 635 nm for propidium iodide. For the visualization of root structure, all seedlings were stained with 2 µg/mL propidium iodide. Root transverse sections and toluidine blue staining were performed as described previously (CITATION). Basic fuchsin staining has been described elsewhere (CITATION). GUS staining was performed as described previously (CITATION) and followed with root transverse sectioning, as described above. To analyze the response of AHL4 to cytokinin, ProAHL4:GUS or ahl4-1 seeds were plated on MS plates and grown for 3 d. Then, half of the seedlings were transferred onto MS plates containing 50 nM benzyl aminopurine. After growing seedlings for another 3 d, they were processed for GUS expression analysis or xylem phenotyping. For quantitative analysis of AHL4 movement, GFP/YFP intensity was measured in both the endodermis and its neighboring pericycle cells in ProCRE1:AHL4:GFP and ProCRE1:AHL4:3x/4xYFP. For each genetic background, five plants from each of four or five independent lines were examined. A plant was first examined longitudinally under a ×63 objective to locate a focal plane where the adjacent endodermis and pericycle cell files were aligned in parallel (see Supplemental Figure 4A online). Then, the image was zoomed in 2.2 times to center the aforementioned endodermis and pericycle cells (see Supplemental Figures 4B and 4C online). Two sequential images were obtained on slightly different focal planes to capture the fluorescence signals within the center of the nuclei in the endodermis and pericycle, respectively. All the images were captured using the same setting. At least three pairs of nuclei aligned parallel to the endodermis and pericycle cells were measured for fluorescence signal intensity by ImageJ software, and the integrated pixel intensity was recorded for further analysis. Six-day-old roots were fixed, embedded, and sectioned for in situ hybridization as previously described (CITATION). We amplified 700-bp long GFP DNA templates including a T7 promoter for either sense or antisense probes, and probes were hydrolyzed to generate working probes of 150 bp long. The primers used for the riboprobes are listed in Supplemental Table 2 online. Two-millimeter-long sections of root tips from 6-d-old seedlings were harvested, and total RNAs were isolated with an RNeasy mini kit (Qiagen). cDNA was synthesized using a SuperScript III first-strand synthesis system for RT-PCR (Invitrogen) as described previously (CITATION). The primers used for gene expression level measurement are listed in Supplemental Table 2 online. A ProQuest two-hybrid system (Invitrogen) was used for yeast two-hybrid analysis. All the procedures were performed according to the manufacturer’s standard protocol. Recombinant hybrid proteins were tested for self-activation. Plasmid DNA pairs between pEXP32-Krev1 and pEXP22-RalGDS-wt, m1, and m2 were used as controls for strong positive, weak positive, and negative interactions, respectively. Biolistic DNA delivery for the transient expression and cell-to-cell movement assay in Arabidopsis was basically performed as previously described (CITATION). Briefly, leaves were detached from 3-week-old Arabidopsis Col-0 and layered on an MS agar plate for bombardment. An equal amount of DNA (5 µg each) was mixed and used for gold coating for coexpression assays. The bombarded leaves were examined at 48 h for cell-to-cell movement assays. At least three independent bombardment assays were performed for each or a combination of constructs, and at least 50 to 100 cells on average were examined per bombardment. Confocal microscopy for epidermal cell-to-cell movement was performed using an LSM 510 META scanhead on a Zeiss LSM 5 DUO confocal microscope as described by CITATION. A series of optical sections was acquired as Z-stacks and rendered as three-dimensional maximum intensity projections with Zeiss LSM 510 AIM software (Rel. 4.2). Cells were examined with a ×40 C-Apochromat (1.2 numerical aperture) water immersion objective lens and 4× zoom. For acceptor photobleaching FRET analysis, the following microscope settings were used: Single-labeled images were used to determine spectral bleed-through levels, and dual labeled images were acquired in fast-line switch mode to eliminate crosstalk. Images of single-labeled donor (EGFP or AHL3-EGFP) or acceptor (mCherry or AHL4-mCherry) and multilabeled donor plus acceptor were collected at the donor excitation wavelength (488 nm) with a 505- to 550-nm band-pass emission filter or acceptor excitation wavelength (561 nm) with a 575- to 615-nm band-pass emission filter. Ten multiscanned images for each experiment were collected using the same imaging conditions and parameters. mCherry was photobleached by continuously scanning ROI with the 561-nm laser line set at 100% intensity for 10 s. Multichannel images of EGFP and mCherry were then collected using the respective excitation lines. To minimize photobleaching during the imaging process, images were collected at 0.2% of the laser intensity. To ensure that imaging-associated bleaching was minimal, we monitored the level of bleaching in each experiment by collecting three EGFP/mCherry image pairs before bleaching and seven after bleaching. Data were collected from several cells and at least three independent experiments were conducted. Recovery of the donor from quenching was quantified by subtracting the donor emission after bleaching from the donor emission before bleaching. The FRET images were processed by background subtraction. Processing and analysis of FRET images, pseudocoloring of fluorescence intensities, and calculation of FRET efficiencies were performed using the software and methods of Zeiss Zen 2010 D (v7,0,0,223). Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under the following accession numbers: AHL1 (AT4G12080), AHL3 (AT4G25320), AHL4 (AT5G51590), and AHL6 (AT5G62260). Accession numbers for the xylem precursor-enriched transcription factors are labeled in Supplemental Figure 1A online. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Expression Patterns of AHLs and Other Xylem-Enriched Transcription Factors. Supplemental Figure 2. Isolation of ahl4-1 and ahl3-1. Supplemental Figure 3. Xylem Phenotyping. Supplemental Figure 4. Xylem Development in ahl4. Supplemental Figure 5. Phloem Development in ahl4. Supplemental Figure 6. Transcriptional Domains of AHL3 and AHL4. Supplemental Figure 7. Confocal Microscopy for the Quantification of AHL4 Movement, Shown in Figures 2M and 2N. Supplemental Figure 8. Ectopic Xylem Formation in the ahl3-1 and amiRNA Lines. Supplemental Figure 9. Sensitivity of ahl4-1 to Exogenous Cytokinin Treatment. Supplemental Table 1. AHL4-GFP/AHL4-3xYFP Localization in the Xylem and Its Correlation to Phenotype Complementation. Supplemental Table 2. List of Primers Used in This Article.
