!~ABS~! The photoreceptor phytochrome B (phyB) interconverts between the biologically active Pfr (λmax = 730 nm) and inactive Pr (λmax = 660 nm) forms in a red/far-red–dependent fashion and regulates, as molecular switch, many aspects of light-dependent development in Arabidopsis thaliana. phyB signaling is launched by the biologically active Pfr conformer and mediated by specific protein–protein interactions between phyB Pfr and its downstream regulatory partners, whereas conversion of Pfr to Pr terminates signaling. Here, we provide evidence that phyB is phosphorylated in planta at Ser-86 located in the N-terminal domain of the photoreceptor. Analysis of phyB-9 transgenic plants expressing phospho-mimic and nonphosphorylatable phyB–yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) fusions demonstrated that phosphorylation of Ser-86 negatively regulates all physiological responses tested. The Ser86Asp and Ser86Ala substitutions do not affect stability, photoconversion, and spectral properties of the photoreceptor, but light-independent relaxation of the phyBSer86Asp Pfr into Pr, also termed dark reversion, is strongly enhanced both in vivo and in vitro. Faster dark reversion attenuates red light–induced nuclear import and interaction of phyBSer86Asp-YFP Pfr with the negative regulator PHYTOCHROME INTERACTING FACTOR3 compared with phyB–green fluorescent protein. These data suggest that accelerated inactivation of the photoreceptor phyB via phosphorylation of Ser-86 represents a new paradigm for modulating phytochrome-controlled signaling.
!~RES~! To determine whether phyB is phosphorylated in planta and if so on which amino acids, we purified the phyB-TAP fusion protein from 3-week-old plants and subjected the samples to MALDI-TOF-MS analysis. The detailed description of growth conditions, sample preparation, and MALDI-TOF-MS analysis is provided in Supplemental Methods 1 online. Repeated rounds of mass spectrometry (MS) analysis indicated phosphorylation of various amino acid residues localized mainly in the N-terminal domain of the photoreceptor. Supplemental Figure 1A online illustrates the domain structure of phyB, and Supplemental Figure 1B online shows the quantitative time-of-flight collision-induced dissociation spectrum of the ion observed at mass-to-charge ratio 577.73(2+) that revealed phosphorylation of the peptide SFDYSQSLK [80-88]. To provide an independent line of evidence for in planta phosphorylation of phyB, we analyzed phosphorylation of the phyB-YFP fusion protein with or without phosphatase treatment by Zn-Phos-Tag PAGE, a method suitable to separate phosphorylated and nonphosphorylated derivatives of the same protein (CITATION). The phyB-YFP was phosphorylated in both dark- and R light–grown seedlings, although the amount of phosphorylated phyB appeared to be slightly lower in the latter sample (Figure 1A). As MALDI-TOF-MS experiments spanned a relatively long period of time, we present data obtained by characterizing the biological function of the phosphorylation of Ser-86 residue that was first unambiguously identified by MS analysis. To test the effect of Ser-86 phosphorylation on phyB-controlled responses, we replaced Ser-86 with either Asp (phyBSer86Asp-YFP) or Ala (phyBSer86Ala-YFP) and expressed these as well the wild-type phyB-GFP or phyB-YFP fusion proteins under the control of the 35S promoter (P35S) in phyB-9 mutants. Transgenic plants expressing these fusion proteins at nearly identical levels were identified and used for further studies (Figure 1B). This figure also shows that expression level of the various phyB fusion proteins was ∼25 times higher compared with that of the native phyB in Columbia-0 (Col-0). [[FIGURE]] We determined to what extent the Ser86Ala and Ser86Asp substitutions affect light-induced phyB-controlled physiological responses. Analysis of fluence rate–dependent growth inhibition of hypocotyls in constant R (cR) light demonstrated that P35S:PHYBSer86Ala-YFP seedlings displayed a strong hypersensitivity, whereas P35S:PHYBSer86Asp-YFP seedlings exhibited a pronounced hyposensitivity, especially at lower fluence rates compared with P35S:PHYB-GFP or Col-0 (Figure 2A). Seedlings expressing the mutant photoreceptor that was not phosphorylated at Ser-86 were by two orders of magnitude more sensitive to cR than those expressing the phospho-mimic phyBSer86Asp-YFP fusion protein. At a fluence rate of ∼10 µmol m−2 s−1, the growth inhibition response displayed by the mutants and P35S:PHYB-GFP seedlings was saturated and uniformly hypersensitive when compared with nontransgenic Col-0 seedlings. R light–regulated cotyledon expansion at a low fluence rate (1 µmol m−2 s−1) again indicated that signaling by the phyBSer86Asp-YFP photoreceptor was significantly attenuated. The response displayed was not only hyposensitive when compared with P35S:PHYB-GFP and especially P35S:PHYBSer86Ala-YFP lines, but it was even slightly below the level of nontransgenic Col-0 (Figure 2B). At higher fluence rates (≥25 µmol m−2 s−1), all transgenic lines exhibited similar, hypersensitive cotyledon expansion responses compared with Col-0 (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). [[FIGURE]] Plants also respond to changes in the R/FR ratio of incipient white light. This response, termed as shade avoidance, is regulated by the concerted action of phytochromes (CITATION), and phyB is a major regulator of growth under shade. For these experiments, seedlings were grown 3 d in constant high R/FR conditions before being transferred for four more days to low R/FR conditions. As expected, wild-type seedlings responded to this shade-mimicking treatment (low R/FR) with hypocotyl elongation, whereas the phyB-9 mutant did not show any response (i.e., it displayed a constitutive shade-mimicking, long hypocotyl phenotype, even under high R/FR conditions). Overexpression of phyB, either as phyB-GFP or phyBSer86Ala-YFP, completely inhibited hypocotyl elongation in response to low R/FR, indicating that despite the low R/FR conditions there was enough phyB Pfr to inhibit hypocotyl elongation (Figure 2C). However hypocotyl elongation of P35S:PHYBSer86Asp-YFP was partially restored in low R/FR, suggesting that the Ser86Asp mutation inhibits phyB signaling. Taken together, these data above convincingly demonstrate that R light–induced growth responses displayed by the P35S:PHYBSer86Asp-YFP and P35S:PHYBSer86Ala-YFP lines are markedly different and that the phospho-mimic Ser86Asp substitution inhibits, whereas the nonphosphorylatable Ser86Ala substitution enhances, phyB activity. The molecular machinery mediating light quality and quantity-dependent nuclear import of phyB is only partially known. However, it has been shown that phyB does not possess an intrinsic nuclear localization signal, and its import into the nucleus can be mediated by interaction of phyB Pfr with nuclear localization signal–bearing proteins, including the PIF3 (CITATION). To determine if substitution of Ser-86 affects nucleo/cytoplasmic partitioning, we monitored the velocity of light-induced nuclear accumulation of the various chimeric photoreceptors. Densitometric, quantitative analysis of fluorescence demonstrated that the rate of light-induced nuclear import of the various fusion proteins differed at low fluences of R. PhyBSer86Ala-YFP was imported into the nucleus upon irradiation with 1 and 5 µmol m−2 s−1 of R light, whereas the amount of nuclear phyBSer86Asp-YFP remained at the dark level (Figure 3A). By contrast, saturating R light (2 h irradiation with 43 µmol m−2 s−1) uniformly elevated the level of nuclear fluorescence, suggesting no significant difference between the nuclear accumulations of the various fusion proteins (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). These observations suggest that nuclear import of the phospho-mimic phyBSer86Asp-YFP is severely reduced under conditions when the amount of Pfr is limited. [[FIGURE]] Nuclear-localized phyB is associated with subnuclear protein complexes, termed speckles, nuclear bodies, or photobodies (Kircher et al., 1999, CITATION), and formation of these structures occurs in a fluence rate–dependent fashion (CITATION). Here, we show that phyBSer86Ala-YFP photobodies are already formed after 6 h of irradiation with 0.1 µmol m−2 s−1 R light, whereas detection of phyB-YFP photobodies requires irradiation with an order of magnitude higher fluence rate of R light (Figure 3B). More strikingly, our data indicate the phyBSer86Asp-YFP photobodies were not detectable at fluences up to 8 µmol m−2 s−1. Under saturating light conditions (50 µmol m−2 s−1) all three phyB fusion proteins were associated with photobodies, although the number and brightness of phyBSer86Asp-YFP photobodies appeared to be somewhat reduced (Figure 3B). phyB photobodies dissociate in extended darkness, and this process is significantly accelerated by preirradiation with FR light, thus indicating that these subnuclear structures contain phyB Pfr (CITATION). Here, we show that phyBSer86Asp-YFP photobodies display an increased sensitivity to FR light. After receiving a short pulse of FR light, phyBSer86Asp-YFP photobodies dissociated much faster in subsequent darkness when compared with phyBSer86Ala-YFP (Figure 4A). It has been shown that degradation of phyB is induced by R light and that this process requires interaction of phyB Pfr with PIF proteins (CITATION). A significantly altered degradation rate of the phyB Pfr at lower fluence rates could explain the observed hyposensitivity of phyBSer86Asp-YFP controlled responses. Therefore, we determined the stability of the various phyB fusion proteins in seedlings exposed to weak cR light. Data shown in Figure 4B clearly indicate that phosphorylation of Ser-86 did not significantly alter R light–promoted degradation of the various fusion proteins at the fluence rate of 0.1 µmol m−2 s−1. [[FIGURE]] phyB interacts in a conformation-specific reversible fashion with a battery of downstream signaling components, including the well-characterized PIFs (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To test how substitutions of Ser-86 to Ala or Asp affect the interaction of phyB Pfr with PIF3, we performed yeast two-hybrid assays under different light conditions. Under nonsaturating light, the β-galactosidase enzyme activity increased in a linear fashion in relation to irradiation time, indicating that neither the amount of phyB(N651) (PHYB N-terminal 1 to 651 amino acids) Pfr nor that of PIF3 was rate limiting. When compared with phyB(N651) and phyB(N651)Ser86Ala, the capacity of phyB(N651)Ser86Asp Pfr to bind PIF3 was greatly reduced (Figure 5A). By contrast, under saturating light conditions, the binding capacities of the various phyB N-terminal fragments to PIF3 were nearly identical, indicating that substitution of Ser-86 with Ala or Asp itself does not physically interfere with or prevent interaction of these proteins (Figure 5A). [[FIGURE]] It has been shown that signaling by phyB Pfr is stopped either by FR light–driven conversion of the Pfr into Pr (photoconversion) or by the light-independent relaxation (dark reversion) of the thermodynamically less stable Pfr into the Pr conformer. It is evident that dark reversion can play an important role under conditions when the amount of the Pfr form is limited (i.e., in low-fluence nonsaturating light) (CITATION). The physiological and molecular analysis of the phyB-YFP mutants demonstrated that phosphorylation of Ser-86 negatively regulates phyB signaling at low fluence rates (Figures 2A and 2B). To test whether Ser86Ala and/or Ser86Asp substitutions affect spectral properties and/or FR-induced photoconversion of the photoreceptor, we compared the absorption spectra and rate of photoconversion of the various phyB fusion proteins in vitro. Our data unambiguously demonstrate that photoconversion (Figure 5B) and difference spectra (see Supplemental Figure 4 online) of these photoreceptor molecules do not significantly differ. To verify the possible involvement of Ser-86 phosphorylation in regulating dark reversion of phyB, we measured the rate of this process in vitro in yeast cells and in planta. For in vivo assays, we introgressed the various P35S:PHYB-YFP transgenes into the phyA-211 phyB-9 double null background to minimize possible misinterpretation of the measured Pfr/Pr values due to high phyA levels in etiolated seedlings. Dark reversion measurements showed that the phospho-mimic mutant phyBSer86Asp-YFP reverts faster and to a greater extent than phyB-GFP in vitro (Figure 5C) and in planta (Figure 5D), whereas substitution of Ser-86 to Ala exerted the opposite effect. In comparison with phyB-GFP, the percentage of dark-reverting phyBSer86Ala-YFP was reduced and the kinetics of the reaction were also slightly slower. We conclude that these results readily explain (1) the decreased rate of nuclear import, (2) the limited formation of phyBSer86Asp-YFP photobodies in vivo, and (3) the reduced amount of PIF3/phyBSer86Asp complexes in vitro, and at least partially define the molecular mechanism by which phosphorylation-modulated dark reversion negatively regulates phyB signaling.
!~MM~! For the purification of phyB-TAP fusion protein, sample preparation for MS analysis, and measurement of differential spectra, see Supplemental Methods 1 online. To facilitate large-scale purification of phyB from plant tissue, the photoreceptor was fused to the improved TAP tag (CITATION) and expressed under the control of the P35S promoter (transgenic line provided by Andreas Hiltbrunner). The phyB-TAP fusion protein was purified from 3-week-old transgenic plants grown under short-day conditions (8 h light/16 h darkness). Prior to purification, plants were adapted to 24-h dark treatment followed by irradiation with low-intensity R light (0.5 µmol m−2 s−1) for 6 h. For a detailed description of purification of phyB-TAP, see Supplemental Methods 1 online. After SDS-PAGE, Coomassie Brilliant Blue–stained gel slices were cut into pieces and destained, dried, and then rehydrated with trypsin solution, and one portion of the isolated peptide was enriched for phosphopeptides on TiO2. A more detailed description of sample preparation can be found at http://msf.ucsf.edu/ingel.html. The enriched fraction was analyzed by liquid chromatography–tandem MS on a Waters Q-TOF Premier and an Agilent XCT Plus Iontrap mass spectrometer in information-dependent acquisition mode. Database searches were performed with ProteinProspector (v 5.3.0) against Arabidopsis thaliana sequences in the National Center for Biotechnology Information 2011.03.30 database (62,702 entries). For a more detailed description of the protocols employed, see Supplemental Methods 1 online. The full-length PHYB coding region was inserted as an XbaI-StuI fragment between the cauliflower mosaic virus P35S promoter and the YFP-NOS terminator of pPCVB (CITATION). The Ser86Ala and Ser86Asp mutations were created using a site-directed mutagenesis kit (Stratagene) using the following oligonucleotides: 5′-CGTACGTCGTCGTCTTAAGTGCTTGTGAGTAGTCG-3′ and 5′-CGACTACTCACAAGCACTTAAGACGACGACGTACG-3′ to introduce Ser86Ala mutation and 5′-CGACTACTCACAAGATCTTAAGACGACGACGTACG-3′ and 5′-CGTACGTCGTCGTCTTAAGATCTTGTGAGTAGTCG-3′ to introduce Ser86Asp mutation. Every construct was verified by sequencing. phyB-9 mutants (CITATION) were transformed by the Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated floral dip method (CITATION), and transgenic plants were selected by their resistance to Basta. For shade avoidance, seeds were sown on nylon mesh on half-strength strength Murashige and Skoog plates and stored in the dark for 3 d at 4°C. A germinating, R light treatment (6 h, 50 µmol m−2 s−1) was given at 20°C, and the plates were returned to darkness at 20°C for a further 21 h. Plates were then transferred to constant white light conditions in a Percival Scientific AR-66L growth cabinet (PAR 400 to 700 nm = 130 µmol m−2 s−1, R:FR = 10, 20°C) for 3 d. Plates were then transferred for four more days to constant white light supplemented with FR (low R:FR conditions, R:FR = 0.4) or kept in constant white light as control conditions (high R:FR condition). Plates were kept vertically during the experiment. Hypocotyl length and cotyledon area measurements were performed as described by CITATION. Scanned seedling images were analyzed using MetaMorph (Universal Imaging) or ImageJ (National Institutes of Health) software. PhyB-GFP–overexpressing plants were grown on half-strength Murashige and Skoog plates (1.2% agar) without Suc for 7 d under the indicated light conditions. Samples were homogenized in liquid N2 and then extracted with 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 100 mM NaCl, and 1 mM DTT supplemented with protease inhibitor cocktail (Sigma-Aldrich). Buffer volumes were adjusted to fresh weight. Aliquots (21.5 μL) of samples were combined with 2.5 μL of 10 mM MnCl2 and either with 1 μL (400 U) λ-protein phosphatase (NEB) or blank enzyme storage buffer. Phosphatase-treated samples were incubated at 30°C for 1 h. Reactions were stopped by adding 25 μL 2× LDS loading buffer with 100 mM DTT (Invitrogen) and denaturation at 70°C for 10 min. Samples were loaded onto 7% 50 μM Phos-tag NuPAGE gels (CITATION). Gels were blotted to polyvinylidene difluoride membranes using NuPAGE transfer buffer. After blocking with 5% milk in PBST, the upper part of the membrane was probed with α-GFP-HRP (Miltenyi Biotec) for 1 h and the lower part with α-plant actin IgG (Sigma-Aldrich) for 1 h followed by α-mouse IgG-HRP (Promega) for 30 min. After treating the membrane with Immobilon Western Chemiluminescent HRP substrate (Millipore), luminescent signals were detected using a liquid nitrogen–cooled charge-coupled device camera (Micromax; Roper Scientific). Digital images were analyzed and signals were quantified using Metamorph software package (Molecular Devices). Additional immunoblot assays were performed according to CITATION. PIF3-pGAD424 and pD153 vectors and yeast propagation techniques are described by CITATION. PHYB(N651) and its mutated Ser86Ala and Ser86Asp counterparts were amplified using 5′-AAATCTAGAGAAACAATGGTTTCCGGAGTCGGG-3′ and 5′-GAGCCCGGGTGCACCTAACTCATCAATCCC-3′ oligonucleotides and cloned as XbaI-SmaI fragments to the pD153 vector. Every construct was verified by sequencing. A thin layer (2 mL in a 5-cm Petri dish) of yeast suspension was treated by a 30-s-long saturating R light pulse (60 μmol m−2 s−1) and measured directly (0-s FR treatment), or the suspension was further treated by a FR light pulse (6 μmol m−2 s−1) for different time intervals. After the treatment, the Pfr-to-Ptot ratio was measured in 100 μL yeast suspension using a RatioSpec. Every data point was measured at least four times in two independent experiments, and error bars represent sd. The Pfr amount, normalized to photoequilibrium, was plotted against the FR light dose (given as length of the FR light irradiation). As light source, a portable R (Emax – 660 nm) and FR (Emax – 730 nm) LED irradiated box was used. Detailed description of microscopic equipments and filter settings for GFP and YFP fluorescence measurements are described by CITATION. Quantification of the nuclear import was performed according to CITATION. Twelve-bit TIFF images, not containing any saturated pixels, were taken of least 50 nuclei per sample using fluorophore-specific filter sets and applying identical exposure times. Mean gray value intensity of pixels in the examined nuclei was calculated, and background was corrected by subtracting the corresponding vacuolar signal. All calculations were performed using the ImageJ software (National Institutes of Health). In vivo dark reversion measurements were performed with a custom-made dual-wavelength spectrophotometer with measuring beams at 730 and 800 nm. For the measurements, the samples were irradiated with actinic light generated through filters at 650 nm (Balzers KG9) and 756 nm (Schott RG9). Prior to measurements, the samples were irradiated for 40 min with saturating R light (60 µmol m−2 s−1) and incubated in darkness for various times. In vitro dark reversion experiments were performed as described (CITATION). The ArabidopsisGenome Initiative locus identifier for PHYB is AT2G18790, for PIF3 is AT1G09530, and for ARR4 is AT1G10470. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Domains of PHYB and Identification of Ser-86 Phosphorylation. Supplemental Figure 2. Cotyledon Expansion Response of phyB-YFP, phyBSer86Ala-YFP, and phyBSer86Asp-YFP Expressing Transgenic Seedlings Is Identical under High-Intensity R Light. Supplemental Figure 3. Light-Induced Accumulation of phyB-YFP, phyBSer86Ala-YFP, and phyBSer86Asp-YFP Fusion Protein in the Nucleus Is Identical under High-Intensity R Light. Supplemental Figure 4. Difference Spectra of the phyB-GFP, phyBSer86Ala-YFP, and phyBSer86Asp-YFP Fusion Proteins Are Identical. Supplemental Figure 5. Ser86Ala and Ser86Asp Substitutions Do Not Affect the Interaction between phyB and ARR4. Supplemental Figure 6. Alignment of the Identified phyB Ser-86 Phosphorylation Site across Species. Supplemental Figure 7. The phyBSer86Ala-YFP Fusion Protein Is Phosphorylated in Planta. Supplemental Methods 1.
