!~ABS~! 9-Lipoxygenases (9-LOXs) initiate fatty acid oxygenation, resulting in the formation of oxylipins activating plant defense against hemibiotrophic pathogenic bacteria. Previous studies using nonresponding to oxylipins (noxy), a series of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) mutants insensitive to the 9-LOX product 9-hydroxy-10,12,15-octadecatrienoic acid (9-HOT), have demonstrated the importance of cell wall modifications as a component of 9-LOX-induced defense. Here, we show that a majority (71%) of 41 studied noxy mutants have an added insensitivity to isoxaben, an herbicide inhibiting cellulose synthesis and altering the cell wall. The specific mutants noxy2, noxy15, and noxy38, insensitive to both 9-HOT and isoxaben, displayed enhanced susceptibility to Pseudomonas syringae DC3000 as well as reduced activation of salicylic acid-responding genes. Map-based cloning identified the mutation in noxy2 as At5g11630 encoding an uncharacterized mitochondrial protein, designated NOXY2. Moreover, noxy15 and noxy38 were mapped at the DYNAMIN RELATED PROTEIN3A and FRIENDLY MITOCHONDRIA loci, respectively. Fluorescence microscopy and molecular analyses revealed that the three noxy mutants characterized exhibit mitochondrial dysfunction and that 9-HOT added to wild-type Arabidopsis causes mitochondrial aggregation and loss of mitochondrial membrane potential. The results suggest that the defensive responses and cell wall modifications caused by 9-HOT are under mitochondrial retrograde control and that mitochondria play a fundamental role in innate immunity signaling.
!~RES~! In order to identify signaling components of the 9-HOT-induced defensive response, we made use of noxy2-1, a 9-HOT-insensitive mutant that was isolated in a forward genetic screen based on the root waving activity of 9-HOT. This mutant displayed enhanced susceptibility to avirulent and virulent strains of P. syringae, reduced activation of 9-HOT responses (root waving, formation of callose deposits, and expression of 9-HOT-responding genes), and altered root development (CITATION). Genetic and map-based cloning studies indicated that the noxy2-1 mutation was monogenic and recessive and was located in At5g11630 encoding an uncharacterized protein that we named NOXY2. Confirmation of this was provided by the complementation of the noxy2-1 phenotypic alterations (root development and 9-HOT sensitivity) by transformation with a genomic clone of At5g11630 (Supplemental Fig. S1). Further data validating the identification of the noxy2-1 mutation was the observation that a transfer DNA (T-DNA) insertion mutant (SALK_019745) in At5g11630 (that we designated as noxy2-2) showed, like noxy2-1, 9-HOT-insensitivity and altered root development and that both phenotypic alterations were restored by expression of a wild-type version of At5g11630 under the control of the 35S promoter (noxy2-2;35S:At5g11630; Supplemental Fig. S1). Studies on the response of plants to 9-HOT revealed that the defensive activity of this oxylipin was, at least in part, due to modification of the cell wall (CITATION). Therefore, we examined whether noxy2 mutants differed from wild-type plants in their response to isoxaben, a damaging herbicide inhibiting cellulose synthesis and triggering repair processes and up-regulation of defense-related genes (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To this end, seeds from noxy2-1, noxy2-2, isoxaben-containing medium and examined 7 d after germination. Two mutants, resistant (ixr1-1) or hypersensitive (prc1-1) to isoxaben, respectively, were included in these analyses (CITATION; CITATION). As shown in Figure 1, A and B, isoxaben caused growth arrest, swelling, and ectopic production of lignin in roots of wild-type seedlings. As expected, no such alterations were observed in ixr1-1 plants, in which mutation of the cellulose synthase CESA3 renders an active isoform insensitive to isoxaben (CITATION). Importantly, the two noxy2 mutants showed partial insensitivity to isoxaben. Thus, whereas isoxaben reduced the length of the primary root of wild-type plants by 83%, this effect diminished to 38% and 3% in noxy2-1 and noxy2-2, respectively (Fig. 1C). In addition, microscopy examination revealed that formation of lignin deposits and root swelling in wild-type plants in response to isoxaben was much less pronounced in noxy2-1 and noxy2-2 mutants (Fig. 1, A and B). In contrast to the results with ixr1-1 and noxy2 mutants, a clear isoxaben hypersensitivity was found in pcr1-1 plants, in which loss of CESA6 function caused a cellulose synthase defect and cellulose deficiency (CITATION; Fig. 1, A–C). [[FIGURE]] Analyses of NOXY2 expression by means of promoter GUS constructs (NOXY2:GUS) revealed GUS activity in cotyledons and roots of transgenic seedlings and in floral tissues of mature plants (Fig. 2A). GUS staining was primarily localized in vascular tissues, lateral root primordia, and root meristems. Increased GUS staining was apparent in cotyledons and roots of 9-HOT- or isoxaben-treated seedlings (Fig. 2, A, B, and D). Also, the expression of the NOXY2:GUS was induced in leaves inoculated with the avirulent bacterial strain Pst DC3000 avrRpm1 or the virulent bacterium Pst DC3000, as well as in response to isoxaben infiltration, whereas no induction was observed in water-infiltrated leaves used as a control (Fig. 2, C and D). [[FIGURE]] Examination of NOXY2 expression by using semiquantitative reverse transcription (RT)-PCR revealed the presence of two mRNAs, designated NOXY2-α and NOXY2-β, that accumulated in response to 9-HOT, bacterial inoculation, and isoxaben (Fig. 2E). Cloning and sequencing of the corresponding complementary DNAs (cDNAs) revealed that these mRNAs are splice variants of NOXY2 directing the synthesis of proteins (NOXY2-α and NOXY2-β) with 93 and 91 amino acids, respectively. The two proteins were identical in their first 82 amino acids but differed in their C-terminal regions (Fig. 2F). The NOXY2-α mRNA reached higher levels than NOXY2-β transcripts in the three responses examined, among which isoxaben caused the stronger induction. The phenotypic alterations and the responses to 9-HOT and isoxaben of noxy2-1 and noxy2-2 were restored by expression of a wild-type NOXY2-α cDNA under the control of the 35S promoter (35S:NOXY2-α) but not by expression of 35S:NOXY2-β, thus indicating a major role of NOXY2-α (Supplemental Fig. S2). In these lines, the expression of the two transgenes (35S:NOXY2-α and 35S:NOXY2-β) reached similar levels of accumulation (Supplemental Fig. S2), therefore indicating that the failure of NOXY2-β to complement the noxy2 phenotype was not due to low levels of expression but that NOXY2-α is the functional NOXY2 protein. Genome analyses indicated that Arabidopsis contains 11 NOXY2 homologs sharing 50% to 60% sequence identity with NOXY2. Nine of the NOXY2 homologs identified generate distinct mRNA variants encoding proteins that vary in their last amino acids but that are otherwise identical to each other (Supplemental Fig. S3). Apart from At2g20585 playing an unknown function in polar nuclei fusion during female gametophyte development (CITATION), no other functions have been assigned to any NOXY2 homolog. Protein alignment revealed a highly conserved 20-amino acid region that contains the noxy2-1 mutation (a C-to-T transition at nucleotide 188 that converts Ala-63 to Val) and might thus be relevant for protein functionality (Supplemental Fig. S3). Sequence analyses of NOXY2 indicated the presence of a signal peptide that might target mitochondrial localization. Therefore, we examined the subcellular location of NOXY2 by generating translational fusions in which the GFP protein was fused in frame to the C terminus of the NOXY2α cDNA. We used the 35S promoter to express the NOXY2α-GFP fusion (35S:NOXY2α-GFP) in wild-type controls and noxy2-1 mutants. The phenotype of noxy2-1 mutants was partially rescued by expression of the 35S:NOXY2α-GFP (Supplemental Fig. S4), and GFP fluorescence was primarily localized to small but distinct regions (Fig. 2G). Parallel staining with MitoTracker red, a dye that specifically accumulates in the mitochondria, revealed that GFP fluorescence (in 35S:NOXY2α-GFP transgenic plants) colocalized with the fluorescence of MitoTracker red, indicating that NOXY2 is targeted to the mitochondria (Fig. 2G). Given that noxy2 was isolated together with additional noxy mutants in a screen for 9-HOT-insensitive plants (CITATION), we predicted that additional noxy mutations should yield partial insensitivity to isoxaben. Therefore, we examined the phenotype of 40 noxy mutants grown in isoxaben-containing medium. In these analyses, we found that 44% of noxy mutants respond like noxy2 plants with smaller reduction of root length, reduced swelling, and reduced formation of lignin deposition compared with wild-type plants (see noxy15 and noxy38 as representative examples in Fig. 3A), whereas 29% of noxy plants responded like wild-type plants to isoxaben (see noxy10 and noxy18 in Fig. 3C). In addition, an intermediate response to isoxaben was found in 27% of noxy mutants that were deficient in lignin deposition and root swelling but otherwise showed a similar reduction in root length as seen in wild-type plants (see noxy21 and noxy33 as representative examples in Fig. 3B). The fact that 71% of noxy mutants were partially insensitive to isoxaben indicates that the noxy mutations might impair the ability of plants to activate cell wall repair responses and that the responses to 9-HOT share signaling events with those involved in maintaining the integrity of the cell wall. The finding that the cellulose-deficient prc1-1 mutant, like the noxy plants, was partially insensitive to 9-HOT supported the interplay between the two pathways. (Fig. 1D). [[FIGURE]] Among the 9-HOT-insensitive mutants characterized above, noxy15 and noxy38 respond like noxy2 to isoxaben and were selected for further examination. Since noxy2-1 showed enhanced susceptibility to P. syringae infection (CITATION), it seemed likely that also the noxy15 and noxy38 mutations should diminish the defense potential of plants. Therefore, we examined the phenotype of noxy15 and noxy38 for enhanced susceptibility to Pst DC3000. The noxy2-2 mutant was also included in these studies. No major alterations of the plant phenotype (Supplemental Fig. S5), except for slower shoot growth compared with the wild type, was observed in noxy mutants. Three days after bacterial inoculation, growth of Pst DC3000 in leaves of noxy2-2, noxy15, and noxy38 mutants was higher by factors of 5, 10, and 6, respectively, compared with wild-type controls (Fig. 4A). Accordingly, noxy2-2, noxy15, and noxy38 showed stronger disease symptoms than those seen in wild-type plants (Fig. 4B). [[FIGURE]] A major signal controlling the activation of plant defense against Pst DC3000 infection is SA. Therefore, to further characterize the noxy mutations, we examined SA-dependent gene expression after SA application. In line with the enhanced susceptibility of noxy mutants, transcript abundance of the two SA markers examined PATHOGENESIS-RELATED1 (PR1) and PR5 was lower in noxy mutants than in wild-type plants (Fig. 4, C and D). The diminished capacity of noxy mutants to activate SA-mediated up-regulation of gene expression might at least partly explain the reduced defensive potential seen in noxy mutants. Moreover, the results indicated that the NOXY2, NOXY15, and NOXY38 proteins play a positive role in plant defense where their activity would contribute to the activation of SA-dependent defense gene expression. Map-based cloning studies indicated that the noxy15 mutation was located in At4g33650, encoding the dynamin-related protein DRP3A known to localize to the outer surface of mitochondria and to play a key role in mitochondrial fission (CITATION). The noxy15 mutation was a G-to-A transition at nucleotide 281 that converts Arg-94 to His at the putative GTPase domain of the DRP3A protein and was renamed drp3a-1 (Supplemental Fig. S6). Confirmation that noxy15 impairs mitochondrial fission was obtained by transformation with a mitochondrial-yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) marker (mt-CD3-990; CITATION), allowing mitochondrial visualization. Thus, whereas small and discrete mitochondria were visible in transgenic wild-type plants (Col-0;35S:Mt-YFP; Fig. 5A), mitochondria in transformed noxy15 plants (noxy15;35S:Mt-YFP) appear connected to each other forming a network of massively elongated mitochondria and large nodule-like structures that likely correspond to mitochondrial aggregates (Fig. 5B). [[FIGURE]] The noxy38 mutation was mapped at the FRIENDLY MITOCHONDRIA (FMT) locus (At3g52140), a homolog of the CluA gene of Dictyostelium discoideum encoding a predicted tetratricopeptide repeat protein playing a role in the correct distribution of mitochondria in the cell (CITATION). The noxy38 mutation is a G-to-A transition in the last nucleotide of intron 22 and was renamed fmt-1 (Supplemental Fig. S6). Transcripts derived from fmt-1 include intron 22 and are translated into a predicted truncated protein of 1053 amino acids lacking the tetratricopeptide repeat domain, thought to function in protein-protein interactions. The subcellular localization of FMT is presently unknown; however, in line with previous reports (CITATION), MitoTracker staining of wild-type and noxy38 roots reveals the formation of strong mitochondrial aggregates in noxy38 plants (Fig. 5, C and D). Because mitochondrial morphology and distribution was altered in noxy15 and noxy38 mutants, we examined these organelles in noxy2 mutants after transformation with the mitochondrial-YFP marker (mt-CD3-990; CITATION). Although most mitochondria showed a wild-type distribution and size, nodule-like structures were visible in noxy2-1 (noxy2-1;35S:Mt-YFP) and noxy2-2 transgenic plants (noxy2-2;35S:Mt-YFP; Fig. 5, E and F). Given that plants integrate mitochondrial signals to regulate nuclear gene expression, referred to as retrograde signaling (CITATION), we predicted that the mitochondrial alterations in noxy mutants could negatively impact mitochondrial-nuclei communication. To examine this possibility, we analyzed the expression of mitochondrial alternative oxidase1 (AOX1a; At3g22370) shown to be under retrograde regulation in response to specific mitochondrial damaging agents, such as antimycin A (CITATION). Additionally, the expression of a mitochondrial manganese superoxide dismutase (MSD1; At3g10920) controlling ROS production (CITATION) was similarly examined. Analyses of AOX1a and MSD1 transcript abundance after antimycin A revealed significant differences between wild-type plants and noxy mutants (Fig. 5, G and H). The level of AOX1a transcripts reached higher levels in noxy15 and noxy38 mutants than in wild-type plants, whereas the opposite was observed in noxy2-2. In the case of MSD1, we observed a weak induction above basal levels in wild-type plants, whereas the level of transcripts in the noxy plants examined decreased compared with wild-type plants. The results of these analyses indicated that the three noxy mutations characterized caused an alteration in the response of plants to mitochondrial damage and, thus, that the noxy mutations might disturb mitochondrial functionality. Given that noxy mutants disturb mitochondrial morphology and function, we examined whether the application of 9-HOT might exert any effect on mitochondria. As seen in Figure 6A, treatment of seedlings with 9-HOT provoked mitochondrial swelling and aggregation as well as the formation of mitochondrial structures of annular appearance. Clusters of round-shaped mitochondria were preferentially seen in the differentiation zone of the roots, whereas annular structures were mainly found in hypocotyls. Because mitochondrial swelling is frequently associated with a loss of membrane potential (CITATION; CITATION), we also tested whether the application of 9-HOT decreases the membrane potential of mitochondria. In order to assess this possibility, Columbia-0 (Col-0) plants expressing the mitochondrial-YFP fluorescence marker (CITATION) were stained with tetramethyl rhodamine methyl ester (TMRM), a dynamic reporter of mitochondrial membrane potential whose fluorescence is spectrally separated from that of mitochondrial-YFP. As expected, a red signal colocalizing with the mitochondrial-YFP protein was seen after TMRM staining (Fig. 6B). The red and green fluorescence intensities from individual mitochondria were similar in control untreated samples; however, an overall decrease of the TMRM fluorescence (approximately 33%) was seen after the application of 9-HOT (Fig. 6C). The reduction of red fluorescence indicated that 9-HOT caused loss of mitochondrial membrane potential and membrane depolarization. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) wild-type plants and ixr1-1 and prc1-1 mutants used in this study were derived from Arabidopsis plants ecotype Col-0. For in vitro analyses, sterilized seeds were vernalized for 3 d at 4°C and allowed to grow on media plates. Growth conditions were 14 h of light, 10 h of dark, 22°C and 250 μE m−2 s−1 fluorescent illumination. For phenotypic examination after 9-HOT and isoxaben treatments, seeds were germinated in vertical plates and transferred 4 d after germination to plates containing the products of interest (9-HOT, 25 μm; isoxaben, 10 nm). For examining gene expression, seeds were germinated in horizontal plates and treated 12 d after germination with SA (250 μm) and antimycin A (20 μm). For in planta analyses, seeds were sown on soil, vernalized for 3 d at 4°C, and grown in a chamber at 22° and 70% relative humidity under a 14-h-light, 10-h-dark photoperiod at 250 μE m−2 s−1 fluorescent illumination. Plants were treated and examined between 3 and 4 weeks after seed germination. Bacterial inoculations were performed under greenhouse conditions by spraying a suspension (108 colony-forming units [cfu]/mL) onto the leaf surface. The bacterial strains used in this study were Pst DC3000 avrRpm1 (avirulent) and Pst DC3000 (virulent). Prior to spray inoculation, bacteria were grown overnight at 28°C in petri plates with King’s B medium. Bacterial suspensions were prepared in 10 mm MgCl2 containing 0.04% (v/v) Silwet L77. Discs from infected leaves were excised at the times of interest, pooled in triplicate, homogenized, and used for counting bacterial growth in petri plates. Reported results are the means and se of the values obtained in three independent experiments. 9-HOT was prepared by stirring linolenic acid (120 mg) at 23°C with tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) whole homogenate under an atmosphere of oxygen essentially as described by CITATION. The product was subjected to open-column silicic acid chromatography to provide more than 95% pure 9(S)-HPOT (70 mg). Treatment with sodium borohydride (100 mg) in methanol (10 mL) at 0°C for 30 min followed by preparative straight-phase HPLC using 2-propanol/hexane/acetic acid (2.2:97.8:0.005, v/v/v) as the mobile phase afforded more than 99% pure 9-HOT as a colorless oil (44 mg; yield, 35% from starting linolenic acid). 9-HOT stock was prepared in 95% ethanol and diluted with water to reach the concentration used in these studies. For extraction of RNA, plant tissues were collected at different time intervals, frozen in liquid nitrogen, and stored at −80°C until analysis. Total RNA was isolated according to CITATION. RT-PCR was performed with a GeneAmp PCR System 9700 thermal cycler (Applied Biosystems) using the Titan One Tube RT-PCR system (Roche Applied Science) as specified by the manufacturer. Total RNA was treated with DNase TURBO DNA-free (Ambion) to remove contaminating DNA. One hundred nanograms of this RNA were used in each one-step RT-PCR reaction. Amplification and sequencing of NOXY2 cDNAs was performed with 5′ and 3′ RACE (Invitrogen). Quantification of gene expression was performed by quantitative RT-PCR analyses using a GeneAmp PCR system 9700 thermal cycler (Applied Biosystems) and the FastStart Universal SYBR Green Master (Rox) system as specified by the manufacturer (Roche). Gene At1g43170 encoding RPL3A was used as an internal control. Primers used for these analyses and lengths of amplification products are described in Supplemental Table S1. Genomic and cDNA NOXY2 sequences were used to prepare chimera constructs using standard procedures. DNA fragments were PCR amplified using Expand High Fidelity polymerase (Roche). Forward and reversed primers used in each case are shown in Supplemental Table S1. DNA-amplified PCR fragments were inserted into appropriated Gateway plasmids and mobilized to Agrobacterium tumefaciens for plant transformation. For mapping purposes, noxy2-1, noxy15, and noxy38 plants (derived from the Col-0 accession) were crossed to wild-type plants of the Landsberg erecta ecotype, and F2 mutants were selected. DNA from noxy2-1 and noxy15 recombinants was prepared and used to analyze linkage of the mutations to simple sequence length polymorphic and cleaved-amplified polymorphic sequence markers (http://www.arabidopsis.org, http://bar.utoronto.ca). Sequencing of candidate genes was performed to identify the noxy2-1 and noxy15 mutations. Mapping of the noxy38 was performed at the Instituto de Bioengeniería, Universidad Miguel Hernández Gene Mapping Facility (Elche, Spain) as described by CITATION. In brief, for low-resolution mapping, the DNA of 50 F2 phenotypically mutant plants was individually extracted and used as a template to multiplex PCR coamplify 32 simple sequence length polymorphic and insertion/deletion molecular markers using fluorescently labeled oligonucleotides as primers. For fine mapping, 400 additional F2 plants were used to assess linkage between noxy38 and molecular markers designed according to the polymorphisms between Landsberg erecta and Col-0 described at the Monsanto Arabidopsis Polymorphism Collection database (http://www.arabidopsis.org). Massive genome sequencing performed at BIG genomic (http://www.genomics.cn) was used for the identification of the noxy38 mutation. NOXY2 homolog proteins were identified in databases using the BLAST program available at the Nation Center for Biotechnology Information GenBank and The Arabidopsis Information Resource. Multiple sequence alignment was performed using ClustalW sequence program. Alignment was graphically displayed using the Jalview alignment editor with ClustalX color scheme (CITATION). Examination of GUS activity in NOXY2:GUS transgenic plants was performed as described by CITATION. For the detection of callose, plant tissues were stained and visualized as described by CITATION. For the detection of lignin, roots were stained with 2% phloroglucinol-HCl as described by CITATION. For visualization of mitochondria, roots were stained with MitoTracker Red CMXRos (M-7512; Invitrogen) as described by CITATION. The membrane potential of mitochondria was assessed in hypocotyl cells using the cationic lipophilic fluorescent dye TMRM. Whole seedlings were equilibrated in 25 nm TMRM (in 0.5× Murashige and Skoog [MS] medium) for 30 min before use. For treatment with 9-HOT, seedlings were incubated in 0.5× MS medium containing 25 μm 9-HOT for 30 min. Fluorescent images of GFP, MitoTracker, and TMRM were generated on a Leica TCS-SP5 confocal microscope with LAS AF version 2.6.0 software, using a 63×/1.2-numerical aperture water immersion objective and sequential scanning with argon 488-nm (GFP) and diode-pumped solid-state 561-nm (MitoTracker and TMRM) laser lines. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers At5g11630, At4g33650, and At3g52140. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Complementation of noxy2-1 and noxy2-2 by transformation with the wild-type NOXY2 gene. Supplemental Figure S2. Complementation of noxy2-1 and noxy2-2 by transformation with NOXY2-α. Supplemental Figure S3. Alignment and schematic representation of NOXY2 and of homologous genes present in the Arabidopsis genome. Supplemental Figure S4. Transformation with 35S:NOXY2-α-GFP complements the noxy2-1 phenotype. Supplemental Figure S5. Phenotypes of noxy mutants. Supplemental Figure S6. Map-based cloning of noxy15/drp3a-1 and noxy38/fmt-1. Supplemental Table S1. Sets of primers used in this study.
