!~ABS~! The morphology of plant nuclei varies among different species, organs, tissues and cell types. However, mechanisms and factors involved in the maintenance of nuclear morphology are poorly understood. Because nuclei retain their shapes even after cytoskeletal inhibitor treatments both in vivo and in vitro, we assumed involvement of the nuclear lamina, which plays a critical role in the regulation of nuclear morphology in animals. The crude nuclear lamina fraction isolated from Arabidopsis thaliana leaves was analyzed by mass spectrometry, and putative nuclear lamina proteins were identified. Among their T-DNA insertion lines, nuclei of little nuclei1 (linc1) and linc4 disruptants were more spherical than those of wild-type plants. Because A. thaliana harbors four LINC genes, we prepared all single and linc1/4 and linc2/3 double disruptants. In leaf epidermal cells, the circularity index of the nucleus in all linc disruptants except linc3 was significantly higher than that in the wild-type plants. The extent of the effects of LINC1 and/or LINC4 disruption was significantly higher than that of the effects of LINC2 disruption. The nuclear area was significantly smaller in the linc1, linc4 and linc1/4 disruptants than in the wild-type plants. Regardless of the defects in nuclear morphology, all linc disruptants exhibited a normal ploidy level. In interphase cells, LINC1 and LINC4 were mainly localized to the nuclear periphery, whereas LINC2 was in the nucleoplasm and LINC3 was detected in both regions. From prometaphase to anaphase in mitotic root tip cells, LINC1 was co-localized with chromosomes, whereas other LINCs were dispersed in the cytoplasm.
!~RES~! To determine whether cytoskeletons play any role in the maintenance of plant nuclear morphology, we semi-quantitatively measured the circularity index and area of the nucleus in leaf epidermal cells of A. thaliana after treatment with latrunculin B and/or propyzamide (Fig. 1A, B). No statistically significant difference was detected in either parameter from the control nuclei in any treatment. Furthermore, nuclei isolated from A. thaliana leaves retained their spindle shape even after treatment with 1% (v/v) Triton X-100 (Supplementary Fig. S1A); the shape was the same as that in the leaves (Supplementary Fig. S1B). The morphology of demembranated nuclei was also maintained after treatment with latrunculin B and/or propyzamide (Fig. 1C–F). Consequently, we assumed that nuclear morphology is maintained by intranuclear factors such as nuclear lamina components but not by cytoskeletons. Mesh-like structures composed of fibrous materials typical of the nuclear lamina were clearly present in electron micrographs of the crude nuclear lamina fraction prepared from A. thaliana leaf protoplasts (Fig. 2A). A total of 660 proteins were identified as putative nuclear lamina proteins by LC-MS/MS of the fraction (Fig. 2B, C; Supplementary Table S1-1). Because animal lamins are equipped with DNA binding activity (CITATION), we selected 63 of the 660 proteins harboring putative DNA-binding motifs or with unknown functions (Supplementary Table S1-2). Two lines exhibiting spherical nuclear shapes in leaf trichome cells (Fig. 2D–F) were screened from T-DNA insertion lines for these 63 genes. One line was a linc1 disruptant (Fig. 2E) and the other was a linc4 disruptant (Fig. 2F).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] linc1–linc4 single disruptants and linc1/4 and linc2/3 double disruptants were prepared to determine which LINC family isoforms were involved in the maintenance of nuclear morphology. Disruption of these distinctive genes was confirmed by reverse transcription–PCR (RT–PCR) using gene-specific primers (Supplementary Fig. S2). No detectable difference in the whole-plant morphology was obvious between any of the linc disruptants and wild-type plants at least under the present growth conditions (Supplementary Fig. S3). LINC1–LINC4 gene expression patterns in the wild-type plants were also confirmed by RT–PCR (Supplementary Fig. S4). All LINC genes appeared to be expressed in the whole plant body. We semi-quantitatively measured the circularity index and area of the nucleus in the leaf and root epidermal cells of linc disruptants. In leaf epidermal cells, the circularity index of the nucleus in all linc disruptants except linc3 was significantly higher than that in the wild-type plants (Fig. 3A). The extent of the effects of LINC1, LINC4 and LINC1/4 disruption was significantly higher than that of the effects of LINC2 and LINC2/3 disruption. The nuclear area in the linc1, linc4 and linc1/4 disruptants was significantly smaller than that in the wild-type plants, while the nuclear area in the linc2, linc3 and linc2/3 disruptants was not significantly different from that in the wild-type plants (Fig. 3B). Neither the nuclear circularity index nor the nuclear area in the linc1, linc4 and linc1/4 disruptants was significantly different from each other, suggesting that both LINC1 and LINC4 are factors indispensable for maintaining nuclear morphology in leaf epidermal cells. More or less similar results were obtained in root epidermal cells, except that LINC3 disruption resulted in a small but significant effect on the nuclear circularity index (Fig. 3C, D). In summary, although all LINC genes were expressed in the whole plant body, LINC1 and LINC4 functioned predominantly and LINC2 subordinately in the maintenance of nuclear morphology in leaf and root epidermal cells. LINC3 functioned in roots but did not function or redundantly functioned with other LINCs in leaves. We confirmed that the abnormal nuclear morphology of linc1 and linc4 disruptants was recovered by introducing LINC1-GFP (green fluorescent protein) and LINC4-GFP, respectively, into the disruptants (Supplementary Fig. S5).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Because nuclear morphology in leaf epidermal cells was altered in most of the linc disruptants, we analyzed the DNA content in nuclei isolated from rosette leaves by flow cytometry. As reported previously, nuclei from the wild-type leaves had widely distributed DNA content ranging from 2C to 32C (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION), with the highest population of nuclei containing 8C in 4-week-old plants (Fig. 4). Nuclei of all linc disruptants exhibited almost identical patterns of DNA content compared with the nuclei of the wild-type plants. Thus, LINCs may not be involved in the determination of the ploidy level, at least in leaf cells.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We investigated the effects of LINC disruption on light-dependent nuclear positioning to determine whether nuclear morphology affects nuclear movement. Nuclei of the leaf cells of A. thaliana relocate from the center of the bottom of cells to the anticlinal walls in response to strong blue light (CITATION). Only 40% of nuclei of the leaf epidermal cells of the wild-type plants were located along the anticlinal walls under dark conditions, whereas 80% nuclei were along the anticlinal walls after blue light illumination at 100 µmol m−2 s−1 for 5 h (Fig. 5). All linc disruptants exhibited almost normal light-dependent nuclear positioning, indicating that LINCs are not involved in the regulation of nuclear movement, and that nuclear morphology may not affect nuclear movement in leaf epidermal cells.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We investigated the intracellular localization of LINC–GFP or LINC–yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) expressed under the control of the Cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter in the wild-type plants. As reported previously (CITATION), LINC1 was mainly localized to the nuclear periphery (Fig. 6A, B) and LINC2 was localized in the nucleoplasm of both leaf and root epidermal cells (Fig. 6C, D). LINC3 was also localized in the nucleoplasm of both epidermal cell types (Fig. 6E, F). Punctate or bundle-like LINC3 structures were detected occasionally (Fig. 6F). LINC3 clearly exhibited a bundle-shape localization pattern along the long axis of the nucleus in trichrome cells (Fig. 6G). LINC4 was localized frequently to the nuclear periphery (Fig. 6H, I) as punctate structures of different sizes in both epidermal cell types. Furthermore, the nucleus in LINC4-GFP-overexpressing plants was considerably larger than that in the wild-type plants (Fig. 6J). The longer axis of leaf epidermal nuclei of the wild-type plants was approximately 30 µm at the longest but that in the LINC4-GFP-overexpressing plants reached up to 90 µm.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We also investigated the intracellular localization of LINCs in the fixed root apical meristem (Fig. 7). LINC1, LINC3 and LINC4 in interphase cells were mainly localized to the nuclear periphery, whereas LINC2 was in the nucleoplasm. A part of LINC3 was localized in the nucleoplasm, and a part of LINC4 appeared to form punctate structures at the nuclear periphery. LINC1 seemed to be localized on the condensing chromatin during prometaphase to anaphase, whereas other LINCs were localized diffusely in the cytoplasm. LINC1 appeared to be transferred from the decondensing chromatin to the reassembling nuclear envelope during early telophase. A small population of LINC2 was transferred from the cytoplasm to the chromatin surface. LINC3 was also transferred from the cytoplasm to the chromatin surface, as if preferentially assembling to the distal surface of the chromatin (Fig. 7, arrows). LINC4 was assembled into punctate structures in the cytoplasm (Fig. 7, arrowheads) and then to the chromatin surface. All LINCs were again localized to the nuclear periphery during late telophase, and a part of LINC4 was still localized on the punctate structures. These results suggest that individual LINCs exhibit different redistribution patterns during different mitotic phases.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Col-0 was used as the wild-type plant. We used the following A. thaliana LINC disruptants: linc1 (SALK_016800), linc2 (SALK_0766530), linc3 (SALK_099283) and linc4 (SALK_079288). These linc disruptants were crossed to produce linc1/linc4 and linc2/linc3 double disruptants. Seeds were surface sterilized with 70% (v/v) ethanol and then sown onto GM medium [MS salts, 1% (w/v) sucrose, 0.4% (w/v) gellan gum and 0.05% (w/v) MES-KOH at pH 5.7]. The seeds were incubated at 4°C for 1 d to break seed dormancy and then grown at 22°C for 7 d under long-day conditions (16 h light, 70 µmol m−2 s−1: 8 h dark). The plants were transferred to soil for subsequent growth. Genotyping of individual T-DNA alleles was performed by standard PCR using the allele-specific primers as follows: for linc1 (SALK_016800), LP, 5′-CTCCTCCGGTGACACTATCTG-3′ and RP, 5′-AAAAGAAAGGGAGTTGCAAGC-3′; for linc2 (SALK_0766530), LP, 5′-CTCGAACTGAGCCATTCTGTC-3′ and RP, 5′-AGCTCATTGCTAGAGAAGGGG-3′; for linc3 (SALK_099283), LP, 5′-TTGCCTCTGAAATTCCATGTC-3 and RP, 5′-CAGTGACGCATATACGCATTC-3′; and for linc4 (SALK_079288), LP, 5′-CAACTTGGAGATTGCGTTAGC-3′ and RP, 5′-CACGCTGTATCTTGCTAAGCC-3′ in combination with the T-DNA-specific primer LBa1, 5′-TGGTTCACGTAGTGGGCCATCG-3′. Sample leaves were fixed in 2% (w/v) formaldehyde, freshly prepared from paraformaldehyde, and 0.3% (w/v) glutaraldehyde in a PIPES buffer (10 mM EGTA, 5 mM MgSO4 and 50 mM PIPES at pH 7.0) for 2 h with evacuation for the first 5 min. The leaves were stained with a Hoechst solution [5 µg ml–1 Hoechst 33342 (Calbiochem) in the PIPES buffer] containing 0.03% (v/v) Triton X-100 for 1 h and then with the Hoechst solution overnight when needed. Sample roots were fixed in 4% (w/v) formaldehyde, freshly prepared from paraformaldehyde, in the PIPES buffer for 1 h. Fixed roots were treated with 0.5% (w/v) Cellulase Onozuka RS and 0.05% (w/v) Pectolyase Y-23 in the PIPES buffer for 5 min at 37°C and then stained with the Hoechst solution for 10 min. Samples were observed using a DeltaVision microscope with an Olympus IX70 stand (Personal DV; Applied Precision). Image processing programs (Photoshop 6.0, Adobe Systems; ImageJ 1.45q; National Institutes of Health) were used to analyze the nuclear circularity index and nuclear area. The circularity index was calculated using the equation 4πA/P2 where A is area and P is perimeter. The index indicates how closely each nucleus corresponds to a spherical shape; a perfect sphere has a value of 1. When the effects of cytoskeletal inhibitors on the nuclear morphology were examined, sample leaves after evacuation in the PIPES buffer for 5 min or demembranated nuclei were further treated with 10 µM latrunculin B (Calbiochem) and/or 100 µM propyzamide (Wako) in the PIPES buffer for 1 h. Under these conditions, actin and microtubule cytoskeletons were almost completely disrupted, respectively (CITATION). Stock solutions of inhibitors were prepared in dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) and diluted to the final concentration with deionized water when used. Control leaves were treated with 1% DMSO. After inhibitor treatments, sample leaves were fixed and stained as mentioned above. Demembranated nuclei were stained by the Hoechst solution for 5 min without fixation. Whole plants were maintained in darkness for 36 h to consume starch grains in chloroplasts that were contaminated in the fraction of demembranated nuclei. Leaves were treated with an enzyme solution composed of 1% (w/v) Cellulase Onozuka RS (Yakult Pharmaceutical), 0.1% (w/v) Pectolyase Y-23 (Kyowa Chemical), 0.6 M mannitol, 80 mM MgCl2 and 20 mM MES at pH 5.7 for 2 h at 25°C. Protoplasts were filtered through 50 µm mesh, suspended in nuclear isolation (NI) buffer [10 mM MgCl2, 10 mM KCl, 0.4 M sucrose, 0.5% (v/v) Triton X-100, 10 µM dithiothreitol (DTT), one tablet per 50 ml Complete Protease Inhibitor Cocktail (Roche) and 10 mM PIPES at pH 7.0], and then incubated with gentle shaking for 30 min at 4°C. After centrifugation at 1,000×g for 5 min, the pellet was suspended in NI buffer, and the same incubation and centrifugation cycles were repeated. The resultant pellet was designated as the fraction of demembranated nuclei. The fraction was further treated with 100 µg ml–1 DNase and 100 µg ml–1 RNase in NI buffer without Triton X-100 for 1 h at 25°C. After centrifugation at 10,000×g for 5 min, the pellet was washed twice with NI buffer without Triton X-100. The crude nuclear lamina fraction was usually prepared from 5 g of leaves. The crude nuclear lamina fraction was observed after negative staining with 1% (w/v) uranyl acetate using a transmission electron microscope (JEOL 1200 EX) at 80 kV. The crude nuclear lamina fraction was subjected to SDS–PAGE followed by Flamingo staining (Bio-Rad). The stained gel was cut into 16 sections, and polypeptides were eluted from each gel section following the study by CITATION. LC-MS/MS analyses were performed using LTQ-Orbitrap (Thermo Fisher Scientific). MS/MS spectra were analyzed using the in-house MASCOT server (CITATION) (http://www.matrixscience.com/), and the results were annotated with proteins registered in TAIR8. Total RNA was isolated from flowers, flower stalks, leaves and roots of 4-week-old plants using a Sepasol(R)-RNA I Super G kit (Nacalai Tesque). After DNase treatment, reverse transcription was performed using the Transcriptor First Strand cDNA Synthesis kit (Roche) with an oligo(dT)18 primer. The primers used were as follows: 5′-AGAATGGACGGAAACGTGGGC-3′ and 5′-CGTAGCTTCATGCTGCACCACA-3′ for LINC1; 5′-CCGGAGGAGGATGAGGAATATACA-3′ and 5′-CTTGGTCTACAGTCTTCTTCCGTC-3′ for LINC2; 5′-AACTCCAAGGAAGCGGCAACG-3′ and 5′-TTTCTGTTTCAACCGTAACAATCTCC-3′ for LINC3; 5′-TAACCCCTTCATCTGCCACTCC-3′ and 5′-GATATGACACTCTGGGTATCAGCTTC-3′ for LINC4; and 5′-CGTACAACCGGTATTGTGCTGG-3′ and 5′-GTGATTTCTTTGCTCATACGGTC-3′ for ACTIN2. All genes were amplified in 30 PCR cycles. PCR products were visualized by ethidium bromide staining. Ploidy levels of leaf cell nuclei from 4-week-old plants were determined by flow cytometry as described in the study by CITATION. At least 7000 nuclei were used for each ploidy measurement. Light-dependent nuclear positioning was examined as described in the study by CITATION. Because nuclei of the linc disruptants were spherical, a nucleus in contact with the anticlinal walls was defined as being in the light position. Each LINC fragment was amplified from the genome DNA by PCR using primers 5′-aaggcgcgccATGTCCACGCCGTTGAAGGT-3′ and 5′-ttaggcctCGTCGTCAAGAAAGTCCAAAGCT-3′ for LINC1; 5′-ctggtacctgATGACGCCGAGAAGCGAGAC-3′ and 5′-catgcggccgcagTGTAGTGAGAAAAGTCCAAAGCTTCT-3′ for LINC2; 5′-aaggcgcgccATGTTCACTCCGCAAAGGAATCGT-3′ and 5′-tttcccgggTGTTGTGAAAAAGACCCAAATCTT-3′ for LINC3; and 5′-aaggcgcgccATGGCAACTTCTTCTCGTTCGGA-3′ and 5′-tttcccgggCAGAAATAGCCAAAGGGTATTATTCATCT-3′ for LINC4. LINC1, LINC and LINC4 were cloned into the pSY1 binary vector, which carries a pGPTV-Bar backbone, a CaMV 35S promoter derived from pBI101 and eGFP. LINC2 was cloned into pDONR201 (Life Technologies) by BP reaction. Cloned LINC2 DNA was transferred from the entry clone to the pGWB441 destination vector to generate the eYFP-tagged constructs (CITATION) by the LR reaction. Wild-type A. thaliana plants were transformed by infection with Agrobacterium tumefaciens. Transformed plants were inspected by confocal laser scanning microscopy (Zeiss LSM710; Carl Zeiss). In complementation analysis, the above-described constructs of LINC1–GFP and LINC4–GFP were transformed in linc1 and linc4 disruptants, respectively. Transformed plants were inspected using the DeltaVision microscope with the Olympus IX70 stand (Personal DV; Applied Precision). Fluorescence confocal images of LINC–GFP and LINC–YFP were obtained using a confocal laser scanning microscope (Carl Zeiss) equipped with 458, 488 and 514 nm Ar/Kr laser lines, a 561 nm DPSS laser line and a 633 nm He/Ne laser line. Image analysis was performed using LSM image examiner software (Carl Zeiss) and Adobe Photoshop 6.0 (Adobe Systems). Sample roots were fixed in 4% (w/v) formaldehyde, freshly prepared from paraformaldehyde, in the PIPES buffer for 1 h. Fixed roots were treated with 0.5% (w/v) Cellulase Onozuka RS and 0.05% (w/v) Pectolyase Y-23 in the PIPES buffer for 45 s at 37°C. The roots were stained with the Hoechst solution for 10 min. Samples were observed using the DeltaVision microscope with the Olympus IX70 stand (Personal DV; Applied Precision). The images were deconvolved using the constrained iterative algorithm (CITATION) implemented in SoftWoRx software (Applied Precision).
