!~ABS~! Arabidopsis thaliana CYCLIN-DEPEDENT KINASE G1 (CDKG1) belongs to the family of cyclin-dependent protein kinases that were originally characterized as cell cycle regulators in eukaryotes. Here, we report that CDKG1 regulates pre-mRNA splicing of CALLOSE SYNTHASE5 (CalS5) and, therefore, pollen wall formation. The knockout mutant cdkg1 exhibits reduced male fertility with impaired callose synthesis and abnormal pollen wall formation. The sixth intron in CalS5 pre-mRNA, a rare type of intron with a GC 5′ splice site, is abnormally spliced in cdkg1. RNA immunoprecipitation analysis suggests that CDKG1 is associated with this intron. CDKG1 contains N-terminal Ser/Arg (RS) motifs and interacts with splicing factor Arginine/Serine-Rich Zinc Knuckle-Containing Protein33 (RSZ33) through its RS region to regulate proper splicing. CDKG1 and RS-containing Zinc Finger Protein22 (SRZ22), a splicing factor interacting with RSZ33 and U1 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein particle (snRNP) component U1-70k, colocalize in nuclear speckles and reside in the same complex. We propose that CDKG1 is recruited to U1 snRNP through RSZ33 to facilitate the splicing of the sixth intron of CalS5.
!~RES~! We performed functional analysis of CDKG1 in pollen wall formation and male fertility in Arabidopsis. We obtained a T-DNA insertion line of CDKG1 (SALK_075762, designated as cdkg1) from the ABRC (http://abrc.osu.edu/). The annotated T-DNA was stated to be inserted in the coding sequence (CDS) of CDKG1 (Figure 1A). However, PCR detection (Figure 1B) and sequencing analysis showed that the At5g63370 (CDKG1) CDS fragment from +605 to +1406 bp, together with the annotated T-DNA, was absent in this locus in cdkg1, although the T-DNA was still in the genome of cdkg1 (Figure 1A). The CDS for this truncated form of cdkg1 contained a premature stop codon (TGA, 607 to 609 bp) that would result in a truncated protein containing only a partial CDKG1 N terminus (Figure 1A). Therefore, this mutated protein is expected to lack CDK activity. [[FIGURE]] cdkg1 plants displayed normal vegetative growth similar to the wild type (Columbia-0 [Col-0]; Figure 1C). Wild-type siliques contained 48.8 ± 11.4 seeds (n = 75) on average, whereas cdkg1 showed reduced fertility with only 5.35% seed set (2.61 ± 5.13 per silique, n = 400). The anther dehiscence and anther length of cdkg1 were similar to those of the wild type (Figure 1D). An Alexander’s staining (CITATION) assay for pollen viability showed the cdkg1 anthers contained very few purple-stained viable pollen grains (Figure 1D), which was consistent with its low fertility. Backcrossing with the wild type (Col-0) resulted in F1 plants with normal fertility. In the F2 population, the male-sterile mutant phenotype was inherited in a Mendelian fashion, with 25% of the progeny displaying male sterility (98 of 409, χ2 = 0.235; P > 0.01), indicating that the reduced male fertility phenotype was caused by a single recessive nuclear mutation that was controlled sporophytically. For genetic complementation, a 3.6-kb genomic fragment consisting of 1300-bp upstream sequence, 1839-bp CDS, and 500-bp downstream sequence of CDKG1 (Figure 1A) was introduced into homozygous cdkg1 plants. In the T1 progeny, 17 of 23 transgenic lines showed restored fertility with normal pollen development and seed set (Figures 1C and 1D). This indicates that the deletion within CDKG1 was responsible for the mutant phenotype. There is another CDKG gene, CDKG2. However, the T-DNA insertion lines of this gene had no obvious phenotype, so we did not perform further analysis of the CDKG2 mutants. To understand the details of the developmental defects in cdkg1 pollen development, we compared semithin cross sections of anthers of cdkg1 and the wild type. In Arabidopsis, anther development has been divided into 14 stages based on morphological characters (CITATION). Before stage 7 (tetrad stage), no detectable difference was observed between cdkg1 and the wild type. However, the microspores appeared to be shrunken in cdkg1 anthers at stage 7 (Figures 1E and 1K). At stage 8, most microspores of cdkg1 were relatively round rather than the typical angular shape of wild-type microspores (Figures 1F and 1L). At stage 9, wild-type microspores had a trivalvular shape with dense cytoplasm (Figure 1G), while most cdkg1 microspores were still round and cytoplasm leakage was observed from some microspores (Figure 1M). After stage 9, wild-type microspores gradually developed into mature pollen grains (Figures 1H to 1J). However, most cdkg1 microspores were gradually degraded after stage 9 (Figures 1N to 1P). To obtain some clues about the role of CDKG1 in microspore development, we analyzed the expression pattern of CDKG1. Real-time RT-PCR analysis with total RNA from root, stem, rosette leaf, and inflorescence indicated that CDKG1 was preferentially expressed in leaf and inflorescence and weakly expressed in the other tissues examined (see Supplemental Figure 1A online). RNA in situ hybridization with wild-type anther cross sections showed that CDKG1 exhibited relatively higher expression at the meiosis and tetrad stages (see Supplemental Figure 1B online), suggesting that CDKG1 may play a role during these two stages. Several mutants defective in pollen wall formation also show round microspores at stage 8 (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, we investigated pollen wall pattern of cdkg1 via scanning electron microscopy analysis. The surviving pollen grains of cdkg1 exhibited abnormal exine pattern when compared with that of the wild type (Figures 2A and 2B). To further examine the reason for the pollen wall defect in cdkg1, we performed transmission electron microscopy (TEM). In the wild type, the primexine matrix was deposited between the callose wall and the microspore plasma membrane at the early tetrad stage, and the microspore membrane became regularly undulated (Figure 2C). However, in cdkg1, the primexine matrix was thinner and the regular plasma membrane undulation was not observed (Figure 2F). In the wild type, the callose wall was less electron dense at the early tetrad stage, a time when the electron-dense sporopollenin (or more probably its precursor) was deposited on the outside surface of the callose wall (Figure 2C). By contrast, in cdkg1, the callose wall was moderately electron dense, and flat sporopollenin particles were observed on the surface of the microspore plasma membrane at the early tetrad stage (Figure 2F). At the late tetrad stage of the wild type, the degenerating callose wall was electron dense, and the sporopollenin was deposited as rod-like probacula that were regularly distributed in the primexine matrix (Figure 2D). However, in cdkg1, dot-like sporopollenin particles were randomly distributed on the plasma membrane (Figure 2G). At stage 10, the exine composed of tecta and bacula was formed around wild-type microspores (Figure 2E), while this layer was absent in cdkg1, with only big sporopollenin granules around microspores (Figure 2H). These results suggest that the primexine formation is defective in cdkg1. [[FIGURE]] Since the callose wall is important in primexine formation (CITATION; CITATION), we investigated callose deposition at the tetrad stage by aniline blue staining. The callose wall fluorescence of the cdkg1 tetrad was weaker than that of the wild type, especially that of the peripheral callose wall (Figure 3A). Callose staining of tetrad stage sections showed that the callose wall of cdkg1 was much thinner than that of the wild type (Figures 1E and 1K). This was further confirmed by a callose fluorescence bleaching test. For the 30 cdkg1 tetrads randomly selected from 30 tetrad-stage buds, the average fluorescence quenching time for the callose wall was much less than that for the wild type (Figure 3A). These results suggest that callose synthesis was significantly reduced in cdkg1. In Arabidopsis, CalS5 (Figure 3B) encodes the main synthase for the peripheral callose wall around meiocytes and tetrads (CITATION), and this callose layer is almost lost in cals5 knockout mutants (CITATION; CITATION; Figure 3A). We therefore investigated whether the expression of CalS5 was altered in cdkg1. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis using the primer set for exon2-3 of CalS5 showed 3.9-fold upregulation in cdkg1, whereas the primer set for exon 39 showed only 17% of the wild-type level (Figure 3C). This suggests that the full-length CalS5 transcript in cdkg1 is present at most at 17% of the level in the wild type. [[FIGURE]] To further examine the abnormal transcription of CalS5 in cdkg1, additional primer pairs were designed for RT-PCR analysis. When the primer set for exons 5 to 7 was used, two PCR products were obtained in cdkg1. The smaller product was similar to the size of the PCR band from wild-type cDNA, while the larger one was in a size intermediate between the smaller one and the PCR product from the genomic DNA (Figure 3D). Sequencing showed that the larger product contained the 99-bp intron 6 of CalS5. Thus, the sixth intron was only partially spliced in cdkg1 (Figure 3E). A stop codon occurred inside intron 6, resulting in a truncated protein with only 254 amino acid residues for the abnormal CalS5 mRNA containing the intron. The other primer sets tested showed that other introns of CalS5 were spliced normally in cdkg1. To understand whether CDKG1 is directly associated with intron 6 of CalS5 pre-mRNA, an RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) assay was performed as described (CITATION). We made two protein fusion constructs, one tagged with Myc, PCDKG1:CDKG1-Myc (Figure 4A), and one with green fluorescent protein (GFP), PCDKG1:CDKG1-GFP (Figure 4C). Each construct complemented the phenotypic defects when introduced into cdkg1 (Figures 4B and 4D), indicating that the two fusion proteins can fulfill the function of CDKG1. Inflorescences of these transgenic plants were used for the RIP assay. In the RIP assay with CDKG1-Myc, for the primer set spanning intron 6, an expected PCR product was detected in the anti-Myc RIP (Figure 4E, lane 4). This PCR product was absent in the anti-Myc RIP with the wild type (Figure 4E, lane 3) and in both mock RIPs (with magnetic beads only) of the transgenic plants and the wild type (Figure 4E, lane 5 and 6). We used the primer sets CalS5-900 and SRZ22-CDS as negative controls. No PCR product was obtained from any of these RIP cDNAs (Figure 4F). Similar results were observed when we used PCDKG1:CDKG1-GFP transgenic plants (Figures 4G and 4H). These results indicate that CDKG1 might bind to the CalS5 pre-mRNA. To investigate whether CDKG1 can bind to other parts of CalS5 pre-mRNA, a total of nine additional primer sets for CalS5 was designed for RIP RT-PCR analysis. PCR products were obtained only for primer sets covering intron 6 and exons 5 to 7 (Figure 4I). These results indicate that CDKG1 is associated with the CalS5 pre-mRNA around intron 6. Since CDKG1 is a protein without an obvious RNA recognition motif (RRM), we hypothesize that CDKG1 might bind to CalS5 pre-mRNA by interacting with some other proteins, such as splicing factors that have RRMs. [[FIGURE]] Several CDKs have been reported to be involved in pre-mRNA splicing, including human CDK11, CDK12, and CDK13 and Arabidopsis CDKC2 (CITATION; CITATION, CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). These CDKs share two common features: (1) they colocalize or interact with splicing factors such as SR proteins; and (2) they contain at least one RS motif in their N termini, for example, CDK11 (three RS motifs), CDK12 (20 RS motifs), CDC2L5/CDK13 (15 RS motifs), and CDKC2 (one RS motif). RS motifs are thought to mediate the interaction with splicing factor SR proteins (CITATION; CITATION). CDKG1 has an N terminus that is longer than those of CDKA to CDKF. CDKG1 contains four RS motifs in the N terminus (Figure 5A), including the last RS motif conserved in almost in all the CDKG1 orthologs (see Supplemental Figure 2A online). We also compared the core region (as defined by CITATION) of CDKG1 with those of Arabidopsis CDKs and the mammalian CDKs related to splicing regulation. CDKG1 is more similar to the CDKs associated with splicing than the others, including CDKA, CDKB, and CDKF (see Supplemental Figure 2B online). In the phylogenetic tree of Arabidopsis CDKs, the CDKG clade is close to the CDKC clade (see Supplemental Figure 2C online). Therefore, as these CDKs are related to splicing regulation, CDKG1 might also interact with some SR proteins with one to two RRMs (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] We therefore performed yeast two-hybrid assays to find potential SR protein partners of CDKG1. The Arabidopsis genome contains 19 SR genes (CITATION). We cloned the CDSs of these SR genes into the pGBKT7 vector and the CDS of CDKG1 into the pGADT7 vector. The yeast clones bearing pGAD-CDKG1 and pGBK-RSZ33 were able to grow on the selective medium (Trp-, Leu-, adenine-, and His-), although their growth was slower than that of the positive control, containing pTAC12 and pTAC14 (CITATION). These clones showed positive X-α-Gal reaction (Figure 5B). These results show that CDKG1 interacts with RSZ33 in yeast. To confirm and visualize the interaction between RSZ33 and CDKG1 in plant cells, a bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assay was performed based on split yellow fluorescent protein (YFP; CITATION). CDKG1 and RSZ33 were fused with the N and C terminus of YFP, respectively, and transiently coexpressed in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) leaves. For two combinations (YN-CDKG1+YC-RSZ33 and YC-CDKG1+YN-RSZ33), YFP signals were observed in the nucleus, with relatively stronger signals in nuclear speckles. No YFP signal was observed for the other two combinations, YN+YC-CDKG1 and YC+YN-CDKG1 (Figure 5C). The BiFC assay confirmed the interaction between CDKG1 and RSZ33. When the monomeric red fluorescent protein (mRFP)–tagged CDKG1 (mRFP-CDKG1) and GFP-RSZ33 were coexpressed in transgenic plants, we also observed their colocalization in nuclear speckles (Figure 5D), where most SR proteins localize (CITATION). This colocalization assay therefore supports the interaction between the two proteins. RSZ33 is known to interact with SRZ22 and SRZ21 (CITATION), which further interact with U1-70k, a component of the U1 snRNP (CITATION). This suggested that CDKG1 might be targeted to the splicing machinery through physical and functional interaction with RSZ33. To further verify the involvement of CDKG1 in the splicing machinery, we performed colocalization and coimmunoprecipitation assays with CDKG1 and SRZ22. When coexpressed in tobacco leaf epidermal cells, both the cyan fluorescent protein (CFP)–tagged CDKG1 (CDKG1-CFP) and SRZ22-YFP were observed in the nucleoplasm, primarily in nuclear speckles (Figure 6A). We obtained transgenic Arabidopsis lines expressing both P35S:mRFP-CDKG1 and P35S:SRZ22-YFP. Nuclear extracts from the transgenic plants were immunoprecipitated using an anti-GFP antibody. Immunoblot analysis of the immunoprecipitated products using an anti-RFP antibody detected a protein band consistent with the size of the mRFP-CDKG1 fusion protein (Figure 6B). This coimmunoprecipitation assay suggests that CDKG1 and SRZ22 reside in the same complex in nuclear speckles. [[FIGURE]] To define the region in CDKG1 responsible for nuclear speckle localization, we made several constructs using GFP fused with the CDKG1 fragments (Figure 6C). CDKG1 contains a nuclear localization signal in its N terminus, according to the PredictNLS server (CITATION; https://rostlab.org/owiki/index.php/PredictNLS). When fused with N-terminal fragments containing various RS motifs, CDKG1 1 to 93 (RS motifs 1 and 2), 1 to 264 (RS motifs 1 to 3), and 1 to 300 (all four RS motifs), diffuse GFP signals were observed in the nuclei of the epidermal cells (Figure 6D). Similarly, for CDKG1 298-612-GFP lacking the CDKG1 N terminus, the diffuse GFP signals were observed in the cytoplasm and nucleus, similar to the localization pattern of free GFP (Figure 6D). These results suggest that both the N terminus and the S_TKC domain are required for its nuclear speckle localization. The other three fusion proteins, including 1-395-GFP, 1-450-GFP, and 232-395-GFP, showed nuclear speckle localization (Figure 6D), similar to full-length CDKG1-CFP. The CDKG1 fragment includes the peptide from 232 to 395, which showed a stronger interaction with RSZ33 than did the full-length CDKG1 (Figure 5B). This 232 to 395 fragment contains a partial core region and an N-terminal RS motif (the fourth motif in the N-terminal region), which is conserved in almost all orthologs of CDKG1 in other eukaryotes (see Supplemental Figure 2A online). The core region also includes some critical residues for the function of a CDK, including the putative substrate binding pocket. These results suggest that the fragment 232 to 395 including the conserved RS motif is sufficient to define the CDKG1 nuclear speckle localization and to interact with RSZ33.
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis thaliana plants used in this study are in a Col-0 background. Seeds were sown on vermiculite and allowed to imbibe for 3 d at 4°C. Plants were grown under long-day conditions (16 h light/8 h dark) in an ∼22°C growth room. Transgenic plants were generated via Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated transformation (CITATION) and selected on PNS (Plant Nutritional Solution) media containing 20 mg/L hygromycin B and/or 50 mg/L kanamycin. Transient expression for subcellular localization and BiFC assays in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) leaves were performed as previously described (CITATION). Plant photos were taken with a Cybershot T-20 digital camera (Sony). Flower pictures were taken using an Olympus dissection microscope with an Olympus digital camera. Alexander’s staining and 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole staining were performed as described (CITATION; CITATION). Callose staining and semithin sections were performed as described in a previous report (CITATION). For the callose fluorescence bleaching assay, the inflorescences were fixed in Carnoy’s fixative for 3 h. After rinsing with phosphate buffer, pH 7.2, three times, the inflorescences were stained with 0.1% aniline blue at 4°C for 3 d. The tetrads were isolated from the anthers of the inflorescences and kept under UV. The quenching time was recorded when the callose fluorescence of each tetrad disappeared. Pictures were taken with an Olympus BX-51 microscope (Olympus). For scanning electron microscopy examination, the opened flowers of the wild type and cdkg1 were dissected and the dehiscent anthers were coated with 8-nm gold. Observation and photography were performed on a JSM-840 microscope (Jeol). TEM samples were prepared as previously described (CITATION). Sections were observed on an H-600 transmission electron microscope (Hitachi). For cdkg1 complementation, the 3.6-kb CDKG1 genomic fragment was amplified using LA-Taq polymerase (Takara) with primer set CMP-F/CMP-R. The oligonucleotides used for complementation and other assays in this study are listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. Primers were synthesized by Life Technologies. After verification by sequencing (Genomics), the fragment was cloned into the pCAMBIA1300 binary vector (Cambia) and subsequently introduced into homozygous cdkg1 plants. For cdkg1 background verification, SC-F/SC-R primers were used to validate DNA deletion of CDKG1 for the transformants, LP/RP primers were used to detect either CDKG1 genomic sequence or transgenic complementation fragment, and the genomic-specific primers CHC-F/CHC-R were used to validate the homozygous cdkg1 background. As CHC-R primer was designed 180 bp downstream of CMP-R primer, PCR with the CHC-F/CHC-R primer set was not able to amplify a 1.7-kb fragment in homozygous plants even if the complementation fragment was integrated into the genome. RNA extraction was performed using Trizol (Life Technologies) following the protocol in the user’s manual. A total of 30 cycles of PCR was performed for RT-PCR if not mentioned. Col-0 and cdkg1 inflorescence cDNAs were used for the expression analysis of CDKG1, CalS5, and the pre-mRNA splicing of CalS5. Real-time quantitative PCR were performed using gene-specific primers and iQ SYBR Green Master Mix (Bio-Rad) on the ABI 7300 platform (Applied Biosystems). The experiment was repeated thrice and data were averaged. β-Tubulin gene was used as an internal normalization control. Fold change in gene expression were calculated using the ΔΔCt (cycle threshold) values. GFP, CFP, YFP, and mRFP fluorescence was detected under an Olympus IX70 inverted microscope system. For GFP fusion, CDKG1 and its fragments were amplified from Arabidopsis wild-type genomic DNA with KOD polymerase (Toyobo). The fragments were cloned into the binary vector pMON530-GFP or pCAMBIA1300-35S-GFP, driven by the 35S promoter. These constructs were introduced into wild-type plants or transiently expressed in tobacco leaf via Agrobacterium strain ASE or GV3101 as described (CITATION; CITATION). For CFP and mRFP fusions, the CDKG1 CDS was amplified with KOD polymerase (Takara) using the primer set G1-Bam-F/ G1-Sal-R. The CDKG1 CDS was cloned into the binary vectors pC131-35S-CFP and pCAMBIA1300-35S-mRFP. SRZ22 CDS was amplified from Arabidopsis wild-type inflorescence cDNA with the primer set SRZ22-Kpn-Eco-F/SRZ22-Bam-Sal-R and then cloned into pMON530-YFP. The two constructs were introduced into wild-type plants or transiently expressed in tobacco leaves as described above. For BiFC assays, the CDSs of CDKG1 and RSZ33 were cloned into pCAMBIA1300-35S-YN and pCAMBIA1300-35S-YC vectors and transiently expressed in tobacco leaf cells as described by CITATION. In vivo coimmunoprecipitation assay was performed as previously described (CITATION). The leaves of 4-week-old transgenic plants of the wild type and 35S:SRZ22-YFP+35S:mRFP-CDKG1 were used as protein sources. After fixation, grinding, and sonication treatment, nuclear proteins were extracted from 4 g of leaves. Protein G–coupled magnetic beads (Life Technologies) and an anti-GFP antibody (Cwbiotech) were used for immunoprecipitation. Eluted proteins were run on SDS-PAGE, immunoblotted using the Pierce Fast Western Blot Kit (Thermo Scientific), and probed with an anti-RFP (MBL). The 3.1-kb CDKG1 genomic sequence before the terminal code was amplified with the primer set PG1-Eco-F/G1-Sal-R and cloned into pCAMBIA1300-Myc and pCAMBIA1300-GFP, following a 3′-Nos sequence. The RIP assay was performed as described (CITATION). Briefly, 3 to 5 g of inflorescence from transgenic and wild-type (as control) plants was fixed, and the total soluble nuclear extracts were isolated after sonication. A portion of each nuclear extract was immunoprecipitated with the corresponding antibody-coupled magnetic protein G beads (Life Technologies) or protein G beads as control. Sixty microliters of each nuclear extract was stored at −70°C for input preparation. RNAs were isolated from the immunoprecipitated products and each input. The resulting cDNAs were used for RT-PCR analysis. The anti-Myc antibody was obtained from Genomics. Yeast two-hybrid assay was performed using the Clontech two-hybrid system according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The CDS of CDKG1 and its fragment 232 to 395 were amplified and cloned into the pGADT7 vector. The CDSs of 19 SR proteins were cloned into pGBKT7 vector individually. The pGADT7-CDKG1 was cotransformed into the yeast strain AH109 with the pGBKT7-SR individually. The transformants were screened on supplemented synthetic dextrose medium lacking Leu and Trp or on supplemented synthetic dextrose medium lacking Leu, Trp, His, and adenine hemisulfate salt with X-α-Gal. The positive clones were verified both by CDKG1-specific primers and by SR protein–specific primers. The multiple sequence alignment of full-length protein sequences was performed using the ClustalW tool online (http://www.genome.jp/tools/clustalw/) and displayed using Boxshade (http://www.ch.embnet.org/software/BOX_form.html). The alignment is available as Supplemental Data Set 1 online. Phylogenetic trees were constructed and tested by MEGA4.0 based on the neighbor-joining method (bootstrap method with 1000 trials was used to calculate the statistical support for the nodes). Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative under the following accession numbers: CDKG1 (At5g63370), CalS5 (At2g13680), RSZ33 (At2g37340), SRZ22 (At4g31580), CDKA1 (At3g48750), CDKB1;1 (At3g54180), CDKB1;2 (At2g38620), CDKB2;1 (At1g76540), CDKB2;2 (At1g20930), CDKC1 (At5g10270), CDKC2 (At5g64960), CDKD1 (At1g73690), CDKD2 (At1g66750), CDKD3 (At1g18040), CDKE1 (At5g63610), CDKF1 (At4g28980), and CDKG2 (At1g67580). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Expression Pattern of CDKG1. Supplemental Figure 2. CDKG1 Shows Similarity to Those CDKs Related to Splicing Regulation. Supplemental Figure 3. The Phenotype of Double Mutant cdkg1 cals5-2. Supplemental Figure 4. Cell Divisions Related to Pollen Development Are Normal in cdkg1. Supplemental Figure 5. The Splicing and Expression of Primexine-Related Genes in cdkg1. Supplemental Table 1. List of PCR Primers and Their Usage in This Study. Supplemental Data Set 1. The Alignment of CDK family members in Arabidopsis.
