!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis mutant heat-intolerant 4-1 (hit4-1) was isolated from an ethyl methanesulphonate-mutagenized M2 population on the basis of its inability to withstand prolonged heat stress (4 days at 37°C). Further characterization indicated that hit4-1 was impaired specifically in terms of basal but not acquired thermotolerance. Map-based cloning revealed that the HIT4 gene encoded a plant-specific protein for which the molecular function has yet to be studied. To investigate the cellular role of HIT4 and hence elucidate better its protective function in heat tolerance in plants, a GFP-HIT4 reporter construct was created for a protoplast transient expression assay. Results showed that fluorescently tagged HIT4 was localized to the chromocentre, a condensed heterochromatin domain that harbours repetitive elements for which transcription is normally suppressed by transcriptional gene silencing (TGS). DAPI-staining analysis and FISH with a probe that targeted centromeric repeats showed that heat-induced chromocentre decondensation was inhibited in nuclei of hit4-1 subjected to direct heat treatment, but not in those that were allowed to acquire thermotolerance. Moreover, heat reactivation of various TGS loci, regardless of whether they were endogenous or transgenic, or existed as a single copy or as repeats, was found to be attenuated in hit4-1. Meanwhile, the levels of transcripts of heat shock protein genes in response to heat stress were similar in both hit4-1 and wild-type plants. Collectively, these results demonstrated that HIT4 defines a new TGS regulator that acts at the level of heterochromatin organization and is essential for basal thermotolerance in plants.
!~RES~! Arabidopsis M2 seedlings that had been mutagenized with EMS were examined under permissive heat stress conditions to screen for heat-hypersensitive mutants (CITATION). One selected mutant, hit4-1, was later confirmed by retesting the M3 generation with a heat survivability assay. There was no difference in appearance between the mutant and wild-type seedlings under normal growth conditions. For 7-day-old seedlings, incubation at 37°C for 4 days was lethal to hit4-1 but not the wild type (Fig. 1A). This treatment was employed subsequently for genetic analysis and the results showed that all of the F1 plants from a cross between hit4-1 and the wild type could tolerate the heat treatment. Furthermore, analysis of the F2 progeny from the self-pollinated F1 showed a 3:1 segregation ratio for heat-tolerant to heat-sensitive forms (Table 1). Thus, the heat-intolerant phenotype of hit4-1 is attributable to a single recessive nuclear mutation. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Depending on the intensity, duration, and rate of temperature change, different types of heat stress can impose diverse effects on plants, and plants have evolved a variety of protective mechanisms that contribute to survival during these different types of heat stress. To obtain a better understanding of the responses of hit4-1 to other forms of heat stress, this study compared the thermotolerance of hit4-1 with those of hit1-1, hit2, and hsp101 mutants. These mutants were chosen because they have been shown to be defective specifically in terms of tolerance to sustained heat stress (hit1-1 and hit2), sudden heat shock (hit2 and hsp101), and acquired thermotolerance (hsp101) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The survivability assay used in the genetic analysis indicated that hit4-1 was hypersensitive to sustained heat stress. For the sudden heat shock test, 7-day-old seedlings were exposed directly to 44 °C for 30min and then returned to room temperature for recovery. After recovery for 10 days, whereas leaves of the wild type and hit1-1 remained green and showed visible expansion, the leaves of hit2, hsp101, and hit4-1 seedlings were bleached (Fig. 1B). For the acquired thermotolerance tests, seedlings were pre-treated at 37°C for 60min before being subjected to 44°C for at least 90min, and hit4-1 was found to be able to acquire tolerance to severe heat shock to a similar extent to the wild type (Fig. 1C and D). Therefore, the protective role of HIT4 in the heat tolerance of plants was shown to be more specific to basal than to acquired thermotolerance. Given that hit4-1 is defective in terms of only basal and not acquired thermotolerance, and that acquired thermotolerance is correlated strongly with the production of HSPs (CITATION), this study then monitored the transcripts of major species of HSPs in heat-exposed hit4-1 plants and found that HSP101, HSP70, and HSP17.6A could all be induced to levels equivalent to or even in excess of those in the wild type (Fig. 2). These results are consistent with those for the hit4-1 phenotype. A noteworthy observation is that the expression of HIT4 was itself heat inducible (Fig. 2). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To identify the genetic determinant that underlies the hit4-1 heat-intolerant phenotype, the locus of the hit4-1 mutation was mapped by positional cloning. Initially, coarse mapping of ~100 hit4-1 mutants derived from an F2 segregating population of a cross between hit4-1 (Col-5) and the wild type (Ler-0) placed the mutation on the upper arm of chromosome V approximately 2.6 cM from the microsatellite marker nga151 (Fig. 3A). Subsequent fine mapping of ~2000 F2 individuals characterized the location of the hit4-1 locus further to a 38.2-kb region defined by the molecular markers Cer441572 and Cer477143, which are located on two overlapping BAC clones, MYH9 and T31P16, respectively (Fig. 3B). This region comprises at least eight candidate genes with AGI annotation numbers from At5g09950 to At5g10020 (Fig. 3C). The entire 38.2-kb region from hit4-1 was sequenced by PCR and the sequence compared to that from wild-type plants. The results revealed a base transition from C to A in the sixth exon of At5g10010, which led to an amino acid substitution of serine227 to tyrosine (Fig. 3D). This result indicated that hit4-1 mutation is likely to yield a functionally altered protein product. To confirm the identity of HIT4, a 6.2-kb genomic DNA fragment of At5g10010, including the promoter and the 5’ and 3’ untranslated regions (UTRs), was cloned into the Ti binary vector pCAMBIA1301. This construct was introduced into agrobacteria and then transformed into the hit4-1 mutant. Five independent hygromycin-resistant lines were obtained and all transformants had regained the ability to tolerate both sustained high temperature and sudden heat shock stress (Fig. 3E), which demonstrated that a defect in the At5G10010 gene causes the heat-intolerant phenotype in hit4-1. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To learn more about the possible role of HIT4, we searched the T-DNA insertion collections from the ABRC and found two possible hit4 alleles, hit4-2 (SALK_047656) and hit4-3 (SALK_081564C), in which T-DNA was inserted into the 5’ and 3’ UTRs, respectively (Fig. 3D). For hit4-2, the attempt to isolate homozygous mutant plants was unsuccessful. Genotyping of the progeny from a heterozygous parental plant showed a 2:1 ratio of heterozygous to homozygous progeny with no insert (T/–, – /–). Meanwhile, genotyping of F1 progeny from reciprocal crosses, in which either the wild-type plant was used as a pollen donor to pollinate mutant pistils (T/–) or the heterozygous plant was used as a pollen donor to pollinate wild-type pistils, showed a nearly 1:1 ratio of heterozygous to no-insert progeny (Supplementary Table S2). In contrast, homozygous mutant plants of hit4-3 could be isolated, but showed a heat-tolerant phenotype. RT-PCR analysis showed that the level of HIT4 mRNA was the same in hit4-3 as in wild-type plants (Fig. 3F). These results, together with the finding that HIT4 is expressed predominately at the early stages during embryogenesis (Supplementary Fig. S1), indicate that the T-DNA insertion in hit4-2 causes embryonic lethality, that the hit4-1 mutation is a partially functional allele, and that the insertion in hit4-3 does not affect the normal expression and function of HIT4. The predicted HIT4 protein comprises 434 amino acids with a molecular mass of 50.5kDa. According to the ABRC, HIT4 is an uncharacterized protein for which the cellular function is unknown. BLASTp analysis of HIT4 against a non-redundant protein sequence database showed that the HIT4 protein exhibits a high degree of sequence conservation among land plants (Supplementary Fig. S2), with between 39.7% (Selaginella moellendorffii) and 75.7% (Brassica rapa) identity and between 52.3% (Physcomitrella patens) and 85.7% (B. rapa) similarity, but is not found in organisms in other kingdoms (Supplementary Table S3). An unrooted neighbour-joining tree computed from the multiple protein sequence alignment showed that HIT4 orthologues can be grouped into at least two clusters (Fig. 4). Clade I contains exclusively monocotyledonous plants, whereas clade II contains exclusively dicotyledonous ones. On the other hand, the small number of homologues in certain taxa, only one in each of gymnosperms (Picea sitchensis), lycophytes (S. moellendorffii), and bryophytes (Physcomitrella patens), means that these taxa cannot be grouped phylogenetically, but perhaps represents the early evolution of HIT4 in Plantae. Together, these results suggest that HIT4 evolved independently in the plant lineage and might contribute to plant function on land. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To elucidate the function of HIT4, the protein sequence was analysed for known motifs and domains using Search Pfam (http://pfam.sanger.ac.uk/search) and ScanProsite (http://prosite.expasy.org/scanprosite). However, no significant hits could be identified. Nevertheless, previous proteomic analysis detected the presence of HIT4 in the nucleus (CITATION). To verify that HIT4 is a nuclear protein, a reporter construct was created by in-frame fusion of the C-terminal end of the green fluorescent protein (GFP) to the N-terminal end of HIT4 for transient expression analysis in protoplasts. The results showed that fluorescently tagged HIT4 was indeed localized to the nucleus. More specifically, the GFP-HIT4 appeared to be located in conspicuous nuclear bodies, of which there were up to 10 in number per nucleus (Fig. 5B). Given that the heterochromatic regions of each chromosome in Arabidopsis interphase nuclei are known to cluster into compact chromocentres (CITATION) and that diploid Arabidopsis cells contain 10 chromosomes, the GFP-HIT4 fluorescent signals are likely to represent the locations of chromocentres. To verify this, the nuclei of protoplasts that expressed GFP-HIT4 were isolated and stained with DNA-binding dye, DAPI. Clear localization of HIT4 at chromocentres was indicated by the perfect overlay of the fluorescent signals of GFP and DAPI (Fig. 5C). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The effect of heat stress on the organization of chromatin in Arabidopsis has been studied only recently and it was found that prolonged heat stress can result in substantial decondensation of chromocentres (CITATION). Consequently, the findings that hit4-1 was a heat-intolerant mutant and that HIT4 localized to chromocentres prompted this study to investigate the potential role of HIT4 in the heat-induced changes in the compaction of heterochromatin. To this end, first, DAPI-stained nuclei of root cells of 10-day-old seedlings were examined in the zones of elongation and maturation. Before heat stress, compact chromocentres were observed in more than 70% of nuclei from both the wild type and hit4-1 (Fig. 6A and B). After heat exposure for 36h at 37°C, the compact chromocentres from the wild type were dispersed significantly, as judged by diffuse nucleoplasmic labelling of DAPI. In contrast, approximately 70% of nuclei from heat-treated hit4-1 cells maintained conspicuous DAPI-positive nuclear domains (Fig. 6A and B). Since the expression of HIT4 is heat inducible (Fig. 2), the difference in the compaction degree of chromocentres between WT and hit4-1 in response to heat stress occurring at 24h reflects a potential dosage-dependent regulatory effect of HIT4. Subsequently, similar results were observed when nuclei were extracted from entire plants and examined by FISH using oligonucleotide probes that targeted the centromeric 180-bp satellite repeat, the major constituent of each chromocentre (Fig. 6C). These results suggested that the attenuation of heat-induced chromocentre decondensation in hit4-1 occurred systemically throughout the plant. Given that hit4-1 was also intolerant to sudden heat shock, the phenotypes of nuclei in root cells after heat exposure for 30min at 44°C were also examined. Again, whereas ~70% of nuclei from the wild type showed a diffuse DAPI signal, ~70% of nuclei from heat-shocked hit4-1 maintained compact chromocentres (Fig. 6A). Interestingly, chromocentre decondensation could be induced in hit4-1 to a level similar to that in the wild type if the plants were acclimated at 37°C for 60min before the heat shock treatment (Fig. 6A). These observations, together with the finding that hit4-1 retained the ability to acquire thermotolerance, suggested that the reorganization of chromocentres is a critical response for heat tolerance in plants. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To elucidate the association between HIT4-mediated decondensation of heterochromatin and heat-mediated reactivation of TGS, the transcript levels of TGS markers for which silencing is known to be alleviated by heat were compared between the wild type and hit4-1 by qRT-PCR. Initially, clear inhibition of the reactivation of the centromeric 180-bp repeat was observed in hit4-1 after exposure for 36h to 37°C (Fig. 7A). The strongest disassociation of the chromocentre in wild-type nuclei was observed at this time point (Fig. 6B). To determine whether the hit4-1 mutation also affects the transcriptional release of silenced, multicopy sequences outside the centromeric core, this study next determined the levels of RNA from ONSEN, a copia-like retrotransposon family (CITATION; CITATION) and TSI (transcriptionally silent information), an endogenous repeat that is present in pericentromeric regions (CITATION). The results again showed clear repression of reactivation in hit4-1 for both sets of repeats after exposure for 36h to 37°C. The same also applied to a single-copy TGS locus, MULE-F19G14 (Fig. 7A), which resides outside the constitutive heterochromatic region (CITATION). Again, the differences of gene expression levels between WT and hit4-1 in response to heat stress at 37°C occurring after 24h reflects the potential dosage-dependent regulatory function of HIT4. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The effect of the hit4-1 mutation on a transcriptionally silenced transgene was then tested. This was achieved by crossing hit4-1 with transgenic plants that harboured locus L5, which consists of a multicopy silenced marker gene that encodes β-glucuronidase (GUS) that can be reactivated by heat stress (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION); offspring that contained the L5 locus in the hit4-1 background were isolated for analysis. The results indicated that reactivation of the silenced GUS transgene was also suppressed in hit4-1, as revealed by qRT-PCR for GUS transcripts and histochemical staining for GUS activity (Fig. 7B and C). Collectively, these results suggest that HIT4-mediated dissociation of heterochromatin is necessary, although it might not be sufficient, for the heat stress-induced reactivation of TGS loci, regardless of whether these loci are endogenous or exogenous or exist as a single copy or repeats or where they are located in the genome.
!~MM~! Wild-type Arabidopsis thaliana seeds of the ecotypes Columbia-0 (Col-0) and Landsberg erecta (Ler-0) and EMS-mutagenized M2 seeds of Columbia-5 (Col-5) were purchased from Lehle Seeds (Round Rock, TX, USA). The T-DNA insertion lines SALK_047656 (hit4-2), SALK_081564C (hit4-3), SAIL_610_G01 (mom1-2), and SALK_066374 (hsp101) were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resources Center (ABRC, Columbus, OH, USA). The hit1-1 and hit2 mutants and the transgenic line L5 were as described previously (CITATION; CITATION, CITATION; CITATION). Detailed preparation of growth medium, procedures for mutant screening, and heat stress assays were as described by CITATION. For seed propagation, plants were grown in soil under a 16/8h light/dark cycle. The light intensity for all growth conditions was 100 μmol m–2 s–1. For genetic analysis, the hit4-1 mutant was backcrossed with the wild-type Col-0. F1 and selfed F2 seedlings were tested in a heat survivability assay by incubating 7-day-old seedlings at 37°C for 4 days. These conditions were determined to be lethal for hit4-1 but not for the wild-type seedlings. For gene mapping, hit4-1 plants in a Col-5 background were crossed with wild-type Ler-0 to create an F2 mapping population. F2 plants were selfed to produce F3 plants for the heat survivability assay described above. Genomic DNA was then extracted from individual mutant plants from the F2 generation for PCR-based gene mapping. Initially, published simple sequence length polymorphism (SSLP) and cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence (CAPS) markers were used for rough mapping (CITATION; CITATION). Subsequently, new SSLP and CAPS markers in the vicinity of hit4-1 were developed on the basis of insertions/deletions and single-nucleotide polymorphisms that were identified by comparing the genomes of Col-0 and Cereon Ler-0 (CITATION). Three primers were used in combination to genotype hit4-2. Whereas SALK-ETp-F and SALK-ETp-R amplified a 269-bp wild-type sequence, SALK-ETp-F and LBb1.3 amplified a 518-bp sequence from the junction of the insert and plant DNA. Similarly, for hit4-3, primers SALK_081564-F and SALK_081564-R amplified a 1.4-kb wild-type sequence, whereas SALK_081564-F and LBb1 amplified a 900-bp sequence from the insert-plant DNA junction. Furthermore, for SAIL_610_G01, primers mom1-503-F and mom1-1197-R amplified a 694-bp wild-type sequence, and mom1-503-F and LB3 amplified a 499-bp sequence from the insert-plant DNA junction. To analyse the effect of T-DNA insertion on gene expression in hit4-3, total RNA was extracted from plants homozygous for the T-DNA insertion using a GeneMark Plant Total RNA Miniprep Purification Kit (Hopegen Biotechnology, Taichung, Taiwan) and reverse transcribed using Moloney murine leukaemia virus HP Reverse Transcriptase (Epicentre Technologies, Madison, WI, USA) to synthesize cDNA for reverse-transcription PCR (RT-PCR). For the complementation assay, a 6.2-kb genomic DNA fragment of HIT4 was amplified by PCR with the primers HIT4gDNA-F and HIT4gDNA-R. The resultant amplicon was first cloned into the T-vector using a TA cloning kit (Yeastern Biotech, Taipei, Taiwan), then digested with NheI/ScaI and subcloned into the Ti binary vector pCAMBIA1301 (CAMBIA, Canberra, Australia). Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3103 was then used to deliver this construct into hit4-1 plants by the floral dipping method (CITATION). Transformed seedlings were selected on medium that contained 25 µg/ml hygromycin. The hygromycin-resistant T1 seedlings were transferred to soil and grown to maturity. Homozygous T2 plants were selected by growth of their T3 generations on medium that contained hygromycin. T3 seeds derived from homozygous T2 plants were used for subsequent heat stress tests. Protein sequences of HIT4 homologues were obtained by BLASTp analysis of Arabidopsis HIT4 against a non-redundant database (http://blast.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov). The sequences were then aligned using ClustalW (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/clustalw/). The aligned sequences were assembled into a phylogenetic tree using the boot-strapped neighbour-joining algorithm and the Jones, Taylor, and Thornton amino acid substitution model in MEGA 5.05 with 1000 trials (CITATION). The percentage of HIT4 protein sequence similarity and identity were calculated by using MatGAT 2.0 (CITATION). For the localization assay, the GFP cDNA fragment was amplified from the vector p326-GFP (CITATION) using the primers GFP-XbaI-F and GFP-BamHI-R. The amplified fragment was digested with XbaI/BamHI and cloned into the pLOLA vector (CITATION) to create pLOLA-GFP. The cDNA for HIT4 was amplified using gene-specific primers (HIT4-BamHI-F and HIT4-PstI-R) and cloned into the BamHI and PstI sites of pLOLA-GFP, which resulted in a GFP–HIT4 fusion flanked by a 35S promoter and the nopaline synthase (nos) 3’-polyadenylation signal. Protoplasts were prepared in accordance with CITATION. Polyethylene glycol-mediated transformation was performed as described by CITATION. Extraction of nuclei and 4’,6’-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) staining were carried out as reported by CITATION. Seven-day-old seedlings that had been grown on MS medium were heat stressed at 37°C for various times. After the stress treatments, approximately 50 seedlings from each treatment were frozen immediately in liquid nitrogen. Total RNA was extracted using the GeneMark Plant Total RNA Miniprep Purification Kit (Hopegen Biotechnology) and processed in accordance with the manufacturer’s protocol. Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) was then performed using the KAPA SYBR FAST one-step qRT-PCR Kit (KAPA Biosystems, Woburn, MA, USA) in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions. The UBC28 gene was selected as an internal control. All qRT-PCR amplifications were performed in four independent biological replicates. Data were collected and analysed with a BioRad iCycler IQ5 Real-Time PCR Detection System (Life Science Research, Hercules, CA, USA). The hit4-1 mutant was crossed with line L5 (CITATION), and the F3 progeny that carried the L5 locus within a hit4-1 background (L5/hit4-1) were collected for analysis. Fourteen-day-old L5/hit4-1 seedlings were heat-stressed at 37°C for various times. GUS activity was detected according to CITATION. For DAPI staining of root cell nuclei, seedlings were stained with 1 μg ml–1 DAPI for 15min at room temperature before observation under an Olympus IX71 fluorescence microscope (Center Valley, PA, USA). The protocols for extraction of nuclei from Arabidopsis seedlings and fluorescence in situ hybridization were as reported previously (CITATION). The probe for the centromeric 180-bp repeat was amplified by PCR from genomic DNA using Alexa Fluor 488-labelled primers. The nuclei were counterstained with DAPI (1 μg ml–1) for 5min before observation and image acquisition. The primers used in the study are listed in Supplementary Table S1 (available at JXB online).
