!~ABS~! Secondary metabolites are major constituents of plant defense against herbivore attack. Relatively little is known about the cell type–specific formation and antiherbivore activities of secondary compounds in roots despite the substantial impact of root herbivory on plant performance and fitness. Here, we describe the constitutive formation of semivolatile diterpenes called rhizathalenes by the class I terpene synthase (TPS) 08 in roots of Arabidopsis thaliana. The primary enzymatic product of TPS08, rhizathalene A, which is produced from the substrate all-trans geranylgeranyl diphosphate, represents a so far unidentified class of tricyclic diterpene carbon skeletons with an unusual tricyclic spiro-hydrindane structure. Protein targeting and administration of stable isotope precursors indicate that rhizathalenes are biosynthesized in root leucoplasts. TPS08 expression is largely localized to the root stele, suggesting a centric and gradual release of its diterpene products into the peripheral root cell layers. We demonstrate that roots of Arabidopsis tps08 mutant plants, grown aeroponically and in potting substrate, are more susceptible to herbivory by the opportunistic root herbivore fungus gnat (Bradysia spp) and suffer substantial removal of peripheral tissue at larval feeding sites. Our work provides evidence for the in vivo role of semivolatile diterpene metabolites as local antifeedants in belowground direct defense against root-feeding insects.
!~RES~! From the 15 TPS genes that are constitutively expressed in Arabidopsis roots (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), five (TPS08, TPS17, TPS20, TPS26, and TPS29) were previously predicted to function as diterpene synthases (CITATION). Therefore, we investigated the possible formation of diterpenes in Arabidopsis roots grown under different culture conditions. Columbia (Col-0 CS60000) wild-type plants were grown in potting mix, hydroponic culture, axenic culture supplemented with 1% Suc, and aeroponic culture (CITATION) (Figure 1A). Under the assumption that some of the diterpenes produced in Arabidopsis roots were volatile, we applied automated solid phase microextraction (SPME) to collect volatiles from roots that were detached from plants grown under the different culture conditions. Four diterpene olefins (A to D) were detected by gas chromatography–mass spectrometry (GC-MS) analysis of volatiles emitted from hydroponically grown roots (Figure 1B). Only the predominant diterpene compound A was detected from roots grown in the other culture conditions. The mass spectrum of this compound resembled that of a tricyclic hydrocarbon diterpene (Figure 1C) but did not match the spectra of any other known diterpene compounds listed in the National Institute of Standards and Technology/Wiley libraries, other databases, or references. Therefore, we named these diterpene compounds rhizathalene A to D (rhiza, originating from the Greek word for “root,” and thale for the Arabidopsis common name thale cress). [[FIGURE]] Quantitative analysis of the detected diterpenes by solvent extraction of root tissue and subsequent gas chromatography–flame ionization detection (GC-FID) showed highest concentrations of rhizathalene A in hydroponically grown roots of ∼880 ng g−1 fresh weight (Figure 1D). By comparison, 550 ng g−1 of rhizathalene was found in roots grown in sterile liquid culture and ∼150 to 170 ng g−1 fresh weight was detected in roots from plants grown in soil or under aeroponic culture conditions (Figure 1D). Other volatile terpenes that were detected in small amounts from Arabidopsis roots were the monoterpene 1,8-cineole and the sesquiterpene (Z)-γ-bisabolene, which have been described as products of the root-expressed terpene synthases TPS23/27 and TPS12/13, respectively (CITATION; CITATION). To identify the TPS gene responsible for rhizathalene formation, we analyzed roots from two independent T-DNA insertions in or near the genes of the five putative root-specific diterpene synthases (see Plant Material in Methods) for the absence of rhizathalene A. Only a single line, SALK_125194, with a T-DNA insertion in the sixth exon of the gene TPS08 (tps08-1) (Figure 2A) did not produce rhizathalene A (Figure 2B) nor was the TPS08 transcript detected by RT-PCR (Figure 2C). By contrast, a T-DNA insertion in the 3′-untranslated region of TPS08 in line SALK_112521 (tps08-2) (Figure 2A) did not affect the formation of rhizathalene A (Figure 2B) or TPS08 transcript levels (Figure 2C). tps08-2 was therefore used as a T-DNA control line. Since only a single tps08 null mutant was available, we conducted DNA gel blot analysis to confirm that the lack of rhizathalene formation in the SALK_125194 mutant was caused by a single T-DNA insertion in the TPS08 gene (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). To complement the TPS08 loss-of-function phenotype, we transformed the tps08-1 mutant with the TPS08 gene under the control of a 2.2-kb TPS08 promoter fragment. TPS08 was found to be expressed and rhizathalene emitted from roots of at least three independently established transgenic plants (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). However, the TPS08 transcript and diterpene compound were observed at lower abundance in the transgenic lines than in the wild type (see Supplemental Figure 2 online), indicating that the phenotype was only partially restored because of a possible lack of full activity of the selected promoter region. [[FIGURE]] To confirm the catalytic activity of the TPS08 enzyme, we cloned a 1678-bp cDNA of TPS08 lacking the first 123 bp, which encode a putative 41–amino acid plastidial transit peptide, into the Escherichia coli expression vector pET102/D-TOPO. The partially purified recombinant TPS08 enzyme converted all-trans GGPP into several diterpene compounds (Figures 3A and 3B). The retention time and mass spectrum of the major enzymatic product were identical with that of rhizathalene A. Accordingly, the mass spectra of the three less abundant compounds were identical to those of rhizathalene B, C, and D, which had been detected in roots of hydroponically grown plants (Figure 1A). Incubation of the TPS08 recombinant enzyme with the substrates GPP and (E,E)-farnesyl diphosphate did not result in the formation of enzyme-specific products in comparison to assays with protein extracts prepared from bacterial cells carrying the empty expression vector. [[FIGURE]] Kinetic characterization of the partially purified recombinant TPS08 protein showed a low apparent Km value for all-trans GGPP of 0.8 ± 0.2 µM, which is in the range of those reported from other plant diterpene synthases, including the class-I type casbene and taxadiene synthases (CITATION; CITATION). The Vmax was 4.6 ± 0.6 pkat mg−1, and the kcat was 3 × 10−4 ± 4 × 10−5 s−1, resulting in a kcat/Km value of 0.5 ± 0.1 s−1 µM−1, which is 10- to 50-fold lower than those found for taxadiene and casbene synthase. Consistent with other TPS enzymes, the activity of TPS08 was dependent on the presence of Mg2+ as a divalent metal ion. To elucidate the molecular structure of rhizathalene A, we produced larger amounts of the diterpene compound by transformation of the E. coli C41 (DE3) strain with the pET102/D-TOPO-TPS08 vector construct. Strain C41(DE3) contained an additional pACYCDuet-rAgGGPS plasmid carrying the pseudomature GGPP synthase from grand fir (Abies grandis), rAgGGPS (CITATION). After collection of rhizathalene A from the headspace of 2 liters of bacterial cultures coexpressing the GGPP synthase and TPS08 enzymes and subsequent purification of the compound by liquid chromatography–mass spectrometry, the molecular formula and structure were verified and obtained using NMR experiments that included proton (1H) NMR (see Supplemental Figure 3 online), Double quantum filtered-correlated spectroscopy (DQF-COSY) (see Supplemental Figure 4 online), Rotating frame overhauser enhancement spectroscopy (ROESY) (see Supplemental Figure 5 online), Total correlated spectroscopy (TOCSY) (see Supplemental Figure 6 online), Heteronuclear Single Quantum Coherence-with distortionless enhancement by polarization transfer (HSQC-DEPT) (see Supplemental Figure 7 online), and Heteronuclear multiple bond coherence (HMBC) (see Supplemental Figure 8 online). Proton and carbon chemical shifts are shown in Supplemental Table 1 online. The analysis revealed a novel tricyclic diterpene carbon structure with a cyclopenta-spiro[5.5]undecane skeleton (Figure 3C). The relative stereochemistry was deduced from the ROESY spectrum (see Supplemental Figure 5 online). Complete listings of correlations are presented in Supplemental Table 1 online. Assignment of the relative stereochemistry was supported by the results of quantum chemical calculations. 13C and 1H chemical shifts for all possible diastereomers were computed using density functional theory (CITATION), and the assigned structure of rhizathalene A was the diastereomer whose computed chemical shifts best matched (CITATION) the experimentally determined chemical shifts, with mean average deviations between computed and experimental shifts of only 2.1 ppm for 13C and 0.06 ppm for 1H (see Supplemental Figures 9 to 12 online). The relative stereochemistry proposed for rhizathalene A at C6 and C7 (6S* and 7R*) corresponds to that of the structurally related spiro[5.4]decane sesquiterpene (−)-α-acoradiene (C6 epimer of β-acoradiene; see Supplemental Figure 13 online) (CITATION). The absolute configuration of rhizathalene A has not yet been determined. Since diterpenes are primarily synthesized in chloroplasts, we examined whether TPS08 was targeted to plastids of Arabidopsis root cells. TargetP and ChloroP algorithms predicted a plastidial transit peptide of TPS08 of 41 amino acids. To determine the subcellular localization of the TPS08 protein, we generated transgenic plants in the tps08-1 knockout background expressing the TPS08 transit peptide in C-terminal fusion with fluorescent proteins under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S and the native TPS08 promoters. Analysis of hypocotyl tissue from independent Pro35S:TPS08-eGFP (for enhanced green fluorescent protein) lines showed a subcellular localization of green fluorescence in plastids confirming that the TPS08 protein is targeted to these organelles (Figures 4A to 4D; see Supplemental Figure 14 online). In yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) fusion lines carrying the TPS08 promoter (ProTPS08:TPS08-eYFP), fluorescence was observed in leucoplasts of the root stele, indicating a primary expression of TPS08 in this tissue (Figures 4E to 4H). [[FIGURE]] To investigate to what extent rhizathalene A is produced from precursors synthesized by the plastidial MEP pathway, we administered different concentrations of deuterium-labeled deoxyxylulose ([5,5-2H2]-DOX, DOX-d2) to axenic Arabidopsis hairy root cultures and determined how much of the labeled precursor was incorporated into rhizathalene A after 24 and 48 h of incubation (Figures 5A to 5C). Headspace volatile analysis of roots incubated with 0.2 or 2 mg/mL DOX-d2 for 48 h indicated that ∼50% of the detected rhizathalene A was labeled. Occurrence of the fully labeled isomer is apparent by an increase in the molecular mass of 8 from 272 to 280. We also analyzed the incorporation of deuterated mevalonolactone ([2,2-2H2]-MVA, MVL-d2) at a concentration of 2 mg/mL under the same incubation times. Under these conditions, only a trace amount of labeled rhizathalene A was detected (Figure 5A), indicating a minimal contribution of precursors from the MVA pathway to the formation of the diterpene compound. [[FIGURE]] Tissue-specific activity of the TPS08 promoter was examined in planta by staining of transformed Arabidopsis plants carrying a ProTPS08:β-glucuronidase (GUS) fusion. GUS staining was observed exclusively in the roots of at least three independent lines in the T2 generation. In seedlings grown on sterile Murashige and Skoog medium, weak GUS staining was detected in the stele and at the tips of both primary and secondary roots (Figures 6A to 6C). In comparison, hydroponically grown ProTPS08:GUS plants showed considerably stronger GUS activity in the same tissues and cell types (Figures 6D to 6F). This result is consistent with the higher transcript levels of TPS08 observed under hydroponic culture conditions (see below). [[FIGURE]] To investigate the defensive activity of rhizathalene in planta, we established an aeroponic clay pellet culture system that maintained a suitable belowground environment for a root herbivore while providing easy access to the root tissue (Figures 1A and 7A) (CITATION). We selected Bradysia as a root herbivore since Bradysia larvae were shown to be destructive to Arabidopsis seedlings and jasmonate-insensitive mutants with impaired root defense (CITATION). Wild-type and tps08 mutant plants were grown in aeroponic culture for 4 weeks and subsequently treated with 200 to 300 Bradysia larvae of the second and third instar, which were allowed to feed on the roots for 5 d. The number of larvae is equivalent to the offspring of a single fungus gnat female laying up to 1000 eggs (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] The amount of root mass remaining after Bradysia feeding was compared with that of noninfested control plants (Figure 7B). Wild-type and mutant plants showed a reduction of root mass, but significantly less root tissue was recovered from tps08-1 plants in comparison to wild-type plants and the tps08-2 T-DNA control, which produced rhizathalene at wild-type levels (P < 0.0001 and P < 0.01, respectively) (Figure 7B). The percentage of root mass consumed from control plants ranged between 32 and 48%, while 56 to 63% of root tissue was consumed from tps08-1 plants, amounting to a 10 to 20% higher loss of root tissue than that of controls. We also tested the effect of Bradysia feeding on wild-type and mutant plants at the seedling stage. Fourteen-day-old seedlings planted in potting mix were subjected to a more moderate infestation of 10 larvae per plant. The seedling biomass of the wild type and tps08-1 mutants challenged by larval feeding was compared with that of nondamaged controls (Figure 7C). All seedlings treated with Bradysia larvae showed reduced growth. However, seedlings of the tps08-1 line consistently had significantly less biomass after larval feeding than wild-type seedlings and those of the tps08-2 line (P < 0.01 and P < 0.001) (Figure 7C). The percentage of reduction in seedling biomass was between 31 and 50% for wild-type and tps08-2 plants. By comparison, reduction of biomass was significantly higher for seedlings of the tps08-1 line, ranging between 62 and 72%. We did not determine differences in larval weight in both bioassays since a quantitative recovery and weight measurement of the small larvae from both substrates proved to be too difficult. Since there was a significant difference in the amount of root tissue remaining after Bradysia larval feeding, we investigated possible differences in larval feeding behavior by comparing the larval root damage of aeroponically grown wild-type and tps08-1 plants. After removal of the clay granules, undamaged and damaged roots were examined under a dissecting microscope (Figure 8). Undamaged tps08-1 roots were phenotypically indistinguishable from wild-type roots (Figures 8A to 8D). Wild-type roots were visibly damaged by larval feeding. Portions of the root epidermis and cortex were removed and several root tips were severed. Generally, larvae avoided feeding on the vascular tissue and parts of the endodermis (Figures 8E to 8H). By contrast, damage of roots of the tps08-1 line was much more severe per feeding site, resulting in the consumption of approximately three times more tissue per site (see Supplemental Figure 15 online). Large areas of the root tissue were completely stripped of the epidermis and cortex, and the endodermis and phloem were consumed, leaving only a string of lignified xylem cells and resulting in Figures 8I to 8L. The difference between the total amount of tissue removed from tps08-1 and wild-type roots (Figures 7B and 7C) was somewhat smaller than that observed per feeding site, indicating that larvae feeding on wild-type roots moved more frequently from one site to the next, whereas they spent more time per feeding site on roots of the tps08-1 mutant. [[FIGURE]] To further corroborate the effect of rhizathalene on Bradysia larval feeding behavior, we designed a nonchoice in vitro experiment according to CITATION. Two fungus gnat larvae were placed in glass cylinders containing a mushroom and potato agar diet with various concentrations of rhizathalene A. After 48 h of larval feeding, the average volume of diet containing 500 to 1000 ng mL−1 of rhizathalene A was significantly less than control diets containing DMSO (Figure 9). [[FIGURE]] Many terpene synthases that are involved in the defense against herbivores show induced expression in response to mechanical wounding or feeding damage (CITATION; CITATION). Using real-time quantitative PCR, TPS08 expression levels from aeroponically grown wild-type Arabidopsis roots exposed to 2, 4, and 5 d of Bradysia larval feeding were compared with the expression in uninfested roots. No increased TPS08 mRNA levels were found in response to larval feeding for these particular time points (see Supplemental Figure 16A online). We also tested whether TPS08 expression could be induced by treatment with the defense hormone jasmonic acid (JA). TPS08 transcript levels were slightly induced upon treatment with 100 μM JA for 24 h in axenic culture (see Supplemental Figure 16B online), but this increase did not correspond to a significant change in the amount of rhizathalene produced. However, a more stringent correlation between diterpene production and the extent of TPS08 transcription was observed in roots of plants grown under different culture conditions. The highest TPS08 transcript levels were found in roots of hydroponically grown plants corresponding to the highest concentrations of rhizathalene A in these roots, whereas the lowest accumulation of TPS08 mRNA and rhizathalene A were present in roots of plants grown in potting mix (see Supplemental Figure 16C online).
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana plants were grown under controlled conditions at 22 to 25°C, 150 μmol m−2 s−1 PAR, and a 10-h-light/14-h-dark photoperiod. All wild-type plants were ecotype Columbia (Col-0 CS60000). Seeds of the following T-DNA insertion lines were ordered from the ABRC stock center (CITATION): SALK 125194 (tsp08-1), SALK 112521 (tps08-2), SALK_102259C (tps17-1), SALK 065023C (tps17-2), SALK 112196 (tps20-1), SALK 112203 (tps20-2), SALK 57381 (tps26-1), SALK 133064 (tps26-2), SALK 138882 (tps29-1), and SAIL 728 E10 (tps29-2). Plants were grown in potting mix (90% Sunshine mix #1 [Sun Gro Horticulture] and 10% sand) for 2 to 4 weeks. Hydroponic cultures were established by transferring 4-week-old plants grown in potting mix to plastic containers containing Hoagland solution under constant aeration as previously described (CITATION). Plants were grown for 3 to 4 weeks in hydroponic culture before volatile analysis. Axenic cultures were prepared by following the procedures described by CITATION. Two days before harvesting the root tissue, the medium was changed to reduce the Suc content to 1%. Hormone treatments with JA were applied to axenically grown roots by adding 100 µM JA (Sigma-Aldrich) directly to the liquid medium. Treated tissue was collected 24 h after application of the hormone. Aeroponic cultures were prepared as described by CITATION using 50-mL plastic conical tubes (Fisher Scientific) filled with Seramis clay granules. Plants were grown for 4 weeks until the initiation of primary bolt production. Fungus gnat larvae were reared on 4 liters of moist Sunshine mix #1 enriched with 1.5 kg of shredded potato as described by CITATION. Specimens were identified as a mixed colony of Bradysia coprophila and Bradysia impatiens. Unlabeled GPP, farnesyl diphosphate, and GGPP were purchased from Echelon Biosciences. Tritium labeled GGPP ([1-3H]-GGPP ∼0.74 TBq mmol−1) was purchased from American Radiolabeled Chemicals. [5,5-2H2]-DOX and MVL-d2 were kindly provided by Wilhelm Boland (Max Planck Institute for Chemical Ecology, Jena, Germany). Larvae were isolated from the culture medium using a modified flotation/extraction procedure as described by CITATION. Larvae of all four instars were placed in a Petri dish on moist filter paper without food for 20 to 24 h prior to feeding assays. Application of larvae to aeroponically grown plants followed the protocol developed by CITATION. Approximately 200 to 300 second- and third-instar larvae, collected as described above, were transferred to a single culture tubes in 1 mL of Hoagland solution pipetted into the clay substrate. First and fourth instar larvae were excluded from the experiments because they were too small to count and too close to pupation, respectively. During the feeding experiment, plants were watered every other day by applying 10 mL of Hoagland solution through the top of the tube. Cultures were kept in a screened box under the same conditions described above. Five days after larval feeding, roots were removed from the tubes and the clay granules by submerging the tubes in water. Feeding damage on roots was examined under a dissecting microscope, and the average area of tissue consumed per feeding site was determined using ImageJ software (CITATION). Roots were dried with Kimwipes (Fisher Scientific) and the fresh weight recorded. After drying for 2 d at room temperature, the dry weight was measured. For data analysis, the weights from two independent experiments were combined and log transformed before performing a two-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) followed by Tukey-Kramer Honestly Significant Difference (HSD), n = 24 for the wild type and tps08-1 knockout, and n = 12 for T-DNA control. The percentage of root mass consumed was calculated for each individual plant in comparison to its untreated control. Seedlings were grown in individual pots (8 cm × 8 cm × 10 cm) under the described conditions. Fourteen-day-old seedlings were challenged with 10 second- and third-instar Bradysia larvae isolated and transferred to the pots as described above. Larvae that did not move into the potting substrate within 5 min of the transfer were removed from the experiment and replaced. Pots with treated and control seedlings were then randomly placed in separate net enclosures and kept under growth room conditions as described above. After 7 d of larval feeding, seedlings were removed from the soil and roots were rinsed in water. Seedlings were allowed to air dry for 2 d to record dry weight. Cumulative log-transformed data from two independent experiments were analyzed with two-way ANOVA and Tukey-Kramer HSD, n = 20. The percentage of biomass reduced was calculated for each individual plant in comparison to its noninfested control. An artificial diet of lyophilized and powdered mushroom and potato agar was prepared using a slightly modified protocol previously described (CITATION). Diets were composed of 0.75 g of lyophilized and powdered mushroom (Agarcus bisporus) and potato (1:1), 0.25 g of agar, and 18 mL of distilled water. The mixture was microwaved to a boil, allowed to cool, and then divided into aliquots to which different amounts of DMSO or purified rhizathalene A (dissolved in DMSO) were added. Diets contained final concentrations of 0, 50, 100, 500, and 1000 ng mL−1 of rhizathalene A. The agar was poured into Petri plates (60 × 15 mm) and allowed to solidify. Glass cylinders (height = 60 mm; diameter = 6 mm) were used to punch out 282 mm2 of mushroom and potato agar (height =10 mm; radius = 3 mm). Diet feeding assays were performed by placing two second- and third-instar larvae into the opened end of the glass cylinder. The cylinders containing the larvae were then placed in covered Petri dishes (100 × 15 mm) on moistened filter paper. After the larvae had fed for 24 h, the volume of diet consumed was calculated by measuring the remaining height and diameter of the diet in the cylinder. The average diet consumed was analyzed for differences by two-way ANOVA and Tukey-Kramer HSD. Volatiles were collected from roots by automated SPME using a AOC-5000 Shimadzu autosampler. One gram of root tissue was detached and placed in a 20-mL screw cap glass vial (Supelco). Volatiles were adsorbed in the headspace with a 100-µM polydimethylsiloxane fiber (Supelco) for 30 min at 30°C. Volatile analysis was performed using a gas chromatograph (GC-2010; Shimadzu) coupled with a quadrupole mass spectrometer (GC-MS-QP2010S; Shimadzu). Samples were separated with a 2:1 split injection using the same conditions and mass spectral analysis as described by CITATION. Quantification of rhizathalene A was conducted by GC-FID analysis of organic root extracts (see below) using the authentic diterpene standard, cembrene, for external calibration. A Shimadzu 2010 GC-FID was used with the same column and temperature program as for GC-MS. Volatile terpenes were extracted from 2 g of roots grown under the different culture conditions. Root tissue was rinsed with water, dried with tissue paper, and immediately submerged in 10 mL of ethyl acetate. Roots were then ground in the presence of the organic solvent and 10 mL of deionized water. The ground material was mixed with 90 mL each of ethyl acetate and deionized water in a separatory funnel for 10 min. After phase separation, the organic phase was collected and concentrated to ∼100 μL under a gentle air flow. Following the addition of 5 mL of hexane, the extract was passed through a small silica column overlaid with magnesium sulfate and preconditioned with hexane. The flow-through and a second 4-mL fraction were combined and concentrated again to ∼250 μL. One microliter of the extract was analyzed by GC-MS and GC-FID analysis. For feeding experiments with deuterium-labeled precursors, ∼200 mg of 2-week-old hairy roots grown at room temperature in Gamborg’s B5 liquid media with 2% Suc under semidark conditions (70 rpm) were transferred into a 10-mL sterile screw cap vial. One milliliter medium containing 2 mg of [5,5-2H2]-DOX or [2,2-2H2]-MVA was added to the vial to incubate for 24 or 48 h under the same conditions described above. Since a higher degree of labeling was achieved at 48 h of incubation, this time was chosen for incubations with additional concentrations of 0.02 and 0.2 mg/mL [5,5-2H2]-DOX. Rhizathalene A production was analyzed by SPME–GC-MS analysis. The degree of labeling was calculated based on the ratio of the peak area of labeled rhizathalene A to the total peak area of labeled and unlabeled product. All treatments were replicated three times. Total RNA was isolated from 150 mg of axenically grown Arabidopsis roots using the TRIzol method according to CITATION. Two micrograms of total RNA were reverse transcribed into cDNA according to the manufacturer’s protocol (Invitrogen) and primers A and B (see Supplemental Table 6 online) corresponding to the start and the end of the coding region of TPS08 were used for PCR amplification of the TPS08 cDNA. The resulting PCR product was cloned into the pET102/D-TOPO vector (Invitrogen) following the manufacturer’s protocol. Mutants carrying a T-DNA insertion in the TPS08 gene were identified in the insertional mutant population obtained from the ABRC stock center (CITATION). The presence of the T-DNA insertion in line SALK_12594 (tps08-1) was confirmed by PCR and sequencing of the right and left border PCR products. To determine the copy number of T-DNA insertions in the SALK_12594 line, genomic DNA was isolated from leaves. DNA gel blot analysis was performed with 50 µg of DNA digested with BamHI and HindIII and a digoxigenin-labeled T-DNA–specific probe designed with primers C and D (see Supplemental Table 6 online) following the hybridization protocol by CITATION. For complementation of the tps08 mutant, the TPS08 open reading frame including the stop codon was amplified from TPS08 cDNA using primers A and B and a 2.2-kb TPS08 promoter fragment was amplified from genomic DNA using primers E and F (see Supplemental Table 6 online). The amplicons were each cloned into the Gateway entry vector pENTR/D-TOPO (Invitrogen) and recombined into the binary vector pB7Y24WG. pB7Y24WG was derived from pB7YWG2 (CITATION) by replacing the attR1 site with an attR4 site. The ProTPS08:TPS08 construct was introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 and transformed into SALK_125194 plants by floral vacuum infiltration. Transformants were screened on half-strength Murashige and Skoog plates with 1% (w/v) Suc and 0.1 mg/mL kanamycin. A truncated version of TPS08 without 123 bp encoding a predicted 41–amino acid N-terminal plastidial transit peptide was amplified from the TPS08-pET102/D-TOPO construct by PCR using primers G and H (see Supplemental Table 6 online). The PCR product was cloned into the pET102/D-TOPO expression vector (Invitrogen) to generate a translational N-terminal fusion to thioredoxin and a C-terminal fusion to a His6-tag. The resulting plasmid was transformed into E. coli BL21 Codon Plus cells (Stratagene). Expression and partial purification of the TPS08 protein using nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid (Ni-NTA) agarose was performed as described by CITATION and CITATION. Enzyme assays were conducted as described previously by CITATION in a total volume of 1 mL for 30 min at 30°C in a 10-mL screw cap vial (Supelco). Enzyme products were collected during assay incubation by automated SPME and subsequently analyzed by GC-MS as described above. For enzyme characterization, assays were performed in a final volume of 50 μL with 1 µg partially purified TPS08 enzyme and 10 µM [1-3H]-GGPP (0.74 TBq mmol−1). Assay conditions and quantification of the radioactive product were as described by CITATION. Six different concentrations of [1-3H]-GGPP were applied to determine the Km value for GGPP in triplicate assays. Calculation of Km and Vmax values was performed by Hanes plot analysis using the Hyperbolic Regression Analysis (HYPER 1.01) software (J.S. Easterby, University of Liverpool). The divalent metal ion dependency of TPS08 was determined by performing assays without MgCl2 and MnCl2. Larger amounts of rhizathalene A were produced in vivo to conduct structural analysis of the diterpene hydrocarbon. The truncated TPS08-pET102/D-TOPO construct was transformed into E. coli strain C41(DE3) (Invitrogen), which carried a recombinant pseudomature GGPP synthase (GGPS) from grand fir (Abies grandis) rAgGGPS in the pACYCDuet vector (CITATION) (kindly provided by Reuben Peters, Iowa State University, Ames, IA). Bacteria were grown at 37°C to an OD600 of 0.7 to 0.9 and induced with 0.5 mM Isopropyl β-D-1-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) overnight at 24°C. The induced bacterial culture (250 mL) was transferred to a desiccator, and the diterpene volatile was collected in the culture headspace using 25 mg of Super-Q traps and a closed-loop stripping procedure described previously (CITATION). Compounds were eluted from the volatile traps twice with 100 μL of CH2Cl2, and the eluate was concentrated under nitrogen to a few microliters and then resuspended in 1 mL of 100% methanol. The procedure was repeated 10 times to obtain sufficient quantities of diterpene compound for NMR analysis. Rhizathalene A was then purified by liquid chromatography–mass spectrometry (Walters) using an X-Bridge column (4.6 × 250 mm, 5-µm particle size). A solvent gradient of 80 to 90% methanol in 1% (v/v) formic acid was applied over 5 min, and the final concentration was held for 20 min; the flow rate was 0.8 mL min−1. The injection volume varied from 20 to 100 μL. The fraction containing rhizathalene A at 95 to 99% purity was collected between 16 and 17.5 min as determined by mass spectrometry analysis. All NMR spectra were acquired at 30°C with a Bruker AVANCE 600 spectrometer (600-MHz 1H frequency) equipped with a 5-mm triple resonance z-gradient probe (see additional information in Supplemental Methods 1 online). NMR chemical shift calculations were performed as described by CITATION. The Gaussian03 software suite (CITATION; Gaussian03, revision D.01) was used for all calculations. Structures were optimized in the gas phase using the B3LYP/6-31+G(d,p) method. For NMR chemical shift calculations, single point calculations (GIAO) at the B3LYP/6-311+G(2d,p) level in an implicit chloroform solvent continuum (CPCM, UACK radii) were performed. All reported chemical shifts were scaled as described at http://cheshirenmr.info. The scaled chemical shifts were also subjected to DP4 probability analysis (CITATION). Further details and references are provided in Supplemental Methods 1 and in Supplemental Data Set 1 online. A ProTPS08:GUS construct was generated by recombining the 2.2-kb TPS08 promoter fragment from the Gateway entry vector pENTR/D-TOPO into the binary vector pKGWFS7 (CITATION). Following transformation using Agrobacterium GV3101, histochemical GUS assays were performed as previously described (CITATION). To determine the subcellular localization of the TPS08 protein, C-terminal translational fusions of the 41–amino acid N-terminal TPS08 peptide were established with eGFP and enhanced YFP under the control of the CaMV 35S and the native TPS08 promoters, respectively. eGFP fusion constructs were generated by PCR amplification using primers I and J (see Supplemental Table 6 online) and cloning of the 123-bp N-terminal transit peptide into the pENTR/D-TOPO vector and recombination into the binary vector pK7FWG2 carrying the 35S promoter (CITATION). TPS08 promoter constructs were established by recombining the 123-bp amplicon into the Gateway-compatible pB7Y24WG vector carrying the 2.2-kb TPS08 promoter fragment and the enhanced YFP coding sequence. Generation of transgenic plants was completed as described above. Two-week-old transformants grown on half-strength Murashige and Skoog, 1% (w/v) Suc, and 50 µM glufosinate were used for fluorescence imaging by confocal laser scanning microscopy using a LSM 510 microscope (Carl Zeiss) equipped with a HeNe laser. Tissue autofluorescence was excited at 543 nm and GFP/YFP fluorescence at 488 nm. Band-pass was set to 500 to 550 nm, and long-pass was set to 560 nm. Bright-field images were acquired with the differential interference contrast channel. Images were processed using the Zeiss image software ZEN 2009 light edition. RT-PCR was performed with crude RNA extracted from 150 mg of root tissue as described by CITATION using TPS08 internal primers K and L and Actin 8 primers M and N (see Supplemental Table 6 online). Primers A and B were used to verify TPS08 expression in Pro35S:TPS08 plants. Quantitative real-time PCRs followed the procedure described by CITATION using TPS08-specific primers O and P (see Supplemental Table 6 online). Relative expression levels were determined for three independent biological replicates with three technical replicates each. Threshold cycle (Ct) values for TPS08 were normalized to protein phosphatase 2A subunit A3 (PP2AA3) using primers Q and R (see Supplemental Table 6 online). Mechanistic calculations were performed with Gaussian03 (CITATION; Gaussian03, revision D.01, Gaussian). Structures were optimized in the gas phase using the B3LYP/6-31+G(d,p) method, and mechanistic conclusions are based primarily on mPW1PW91/6-31+G(d,p)//B3LYP/6-31+G(d,p) single point energies. All stationary points were characterized by frequency calculations, and reported energies include B3LYP/6-31+G(d,p) zero-point energy corrections (unscaled). Intrinsic reaction coordinate calculations were used for further characterization of all transition state structures. See Supplemental Methods 1 online for additional details and references to computational methods. Specific data analysis performed has been described with the individual experiments. ANOVA was accomplished using JMP statistical software (SAS Institute). Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: TPS08 (At4g20210), TPS12 (At4g13280), TPS13 (At4g13300), TPS17 (At3g14490), TPS20 (At5g48110), TPS23 (At3g25820), TPS26 (At1g66020), TPS27 (At3g25830), TPS29 (At1g31950), Actin 8 (At1g49240), and PP2AA3 (At1g13320). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. DNA Gel Blot Analysis of T-DNA Copy Numbers in tps08-1. Supplemental Figure 2. Complementation Analysis of the tps08-1 Line. Supplemental Figure 3. 1H NMR spectrum of Rhizathalene A. Supplemental Figure 4. COSY Spectrum of Rhizathalene A. Supplemental Figure 5. ROESY NMR Spectrum of Rhizathalene A. Supplemental Figure 6. TOCSY NMR Spectrum of Rhizathalene A. Supplemental Figure 7. HSQC Spectrum of Rhizathalene A. Supplemental Figure 8. HMBC Spectrum of Rhizathalene A. Supplemental Figure 9. Proposed Structure and Experimental Chemical Shift Assignments. Supplemental Figure 10. All Possible Diastereomers (without Enantiomers) for the Structure Shown in Supplemental Figure 9. Supplemental Figure 11. Assignment of the Relative Stereochemistry to the Compound (See Supplemental Figure 9 Online) Based on GIAO NMR Calculations and DP4 Probability. Supplemental Figure 12. Rearrangements of Cation A to the Cation E That Proceeds to 1’. Supplemental Figure 13. The Structures of the Spiro Terpenes α-Chamigrene, β-Acoradiene, and Viscida-3,11(18),14-Triene. Supplemental Figure 14. Confocal Laser Scanning Microscopy of Wild-Type and GFP-Transformed Roots. Supplemental Figure 15. Bradysia Larval Feeding Damage on Roots of Aeroponically Grown Wild Type and the tps08-1 Mutant. Supplemental Figure 16. TPS08 Expression under Different Culture Conditions and in Response to Insect and Hormone Treatment. Supplemental Figure 17. Relative Abundance of the TPS08 Transcript According to the High-Resolution Spatiotemporal Map by CITATION. Supplemental Table 1. Proton and Carbon Chemical Shifts for Rhizathalene A and Key Correlations from the 2D NMR Spectra. Supplemental Table 2. Computed 13C Chemical Shifts (in ppm). Supplemental Table 3. Computed 1H Chemical Shifts (in ppm). Supplemental Table 4. Statistical Analysis on 13C Chemical Shift Data. Supplemental Table 5. Statistical Analysis on 1H Chemical Shift Data. Supplemental Table 6. Sequences of Primers Used in the Different Experiments. Supplemental Data Set 1. Coordinates, Energies, NMR Isotropic Shielding Constants, and GIAO NMR Calculations. Supplemental Methods 1.
