!~ABS~! The PIN family of proteins is best known for its involvement in polar auxin transport and tropic responses. PIN6 (At1g77110) is one of the remaining PIN family members in Arabidopsis thaliana to which a biological function has not yet been ascribed. Here we report that PIN6 is a nectary-enriched gene whose expression level is positively correlated with total nectar production in Arabidopsis, and whose function is required for the proper development of short stamens. PIN6 accumulates in internal membranes consistent with the ER, and multiple lines of evidence demonstrate that PIN6 is required for auxin-dependent responses in nectaries. Wild-type plants expressing auxin-responsive DR5:GFP or DR5:GUS reporters displayed intense signal in lateral nectaries, but pin6 lateral nectaries showed little or no signal for these reporters. Further, exogenous auxin treatment increased nectar production more than tenfold in wild-type plants, but nectar production was not increased in pin6 mutants when treated with auxin. Conversely, the auxin transport inhibitor N–1–naphthylphthalamic acid (NPA) reduced nectar production in wild-type plants by more than twofold, but had no significant effect on pin6 lines. Interestingly, a MYB57 transcription factor mutant, myb57–2, closely phenocopied the loss-of-function mutant pin6–2. However, PIN6 expression was not dependent on MYB57, and RNA-seq analyses of pin6–2 and myb57–2 mutant nectaries showed little overlap in terms of differentially expressed genes. Cumulatively, these results demonstrate that PIN6 is required for proper auxin response and nectary function in Arabidopsis. These results also identify auxin as an important factor in the regulation of nectar production, and implicate short stamens in the maturation of lateral nectaries.
!~RES~! Previous Affymetrix ATH1 microarray analyses identified a large number of genes with enriched expression in Arabidopsis nectaries (Kram et al., CITATION). One gene displaying extreme up-regulation in nectaries is PIN6 (At1g77110) (Figure 1a). Use of PIN6pro:GUS lines demonstrated enrichment in both median and lateral nectaries (Figure 1a), and also showed that PIN6 is expressed in immature (stage 8) stamen (Figure 1b,c,d). PIN6 expression was not observed in other floral organs or at other developmental time points. The expression profiles of all PIN family genes in mature lateral nectaries and other reference tissues were also examined. Analysis of previous microarray data indicated that PIN6 was the only PIN family member displaying significant expression in nectaries (Table S1); this result was later supported by RNA-seq analyses of mature lateral nectaries (Table 1 and Table S2). Another gene examined in this study, MYB57 (At3g01530), displayed nectary enrichment, as demonstrated by microarray and RT–PCR analysis, although it is also expressed at lower levels in other floral tissues (Figure 1e). Full read counts are presented in Table S2. No reads were identified after the 3′ end of the T–DNA insertion site in pin6–2 (see Figure S3). [[FIGURE]] To identify biological roles for PIN6 and MYB57, multiple T–DNA mutant alleles were identified (Figure 2a). Three independent homozygous pin6 mutants (all with T–DNA insertions in introns) were examined for altered expression level via quantitative RT–PCR, whereas myb57–2 expression was examined by end-point RT–PCR and Illumina-based RNA-seq (Figure S1 and Table S2). pin6–1, pin6–2 and pin6–3 were identified as knock-up, knock-out and knock-down mutants, respectively (Figure 2b, black bars), whereas myb57–2 was identified as a strong knock-down mutant due to a T–DNA insertion near the transcriptional start site (Figure S1 and Table S2). [[FIGURE]] The reason for the observed increase in PIN6 expression in pin6–1 is not clear; however, the quantitative RT–PCR primers used for PIN6 spanned the T–DNA insertion site for pin6–1, and were located 3′ to the insertion sites for pin6–2 and pin6–3. Further, 3′ RACE demonstrated that full-length transcript is produced in pin6–1 (Figure S2). The presence of a truncated PIN6 transcript in pin6–2 was confirmed by RNA-seq in pin6–2 lateral nectaries (Figure S3). To demonstrate a role for PIN6 and MYB57 in nectary function, mutant lines were analyzed for total nectar glucose, as the vast majority (>99%) of sugars in Arabidopsis nectar are glucose and fructose in an approximately equal amounts (Davis et al., CITATION). Significantly, PIN6 expression level was positively correlated with total nectar glucose (Figure 2b, gray bars), with nectar production being increased approximately 30% in the pin6–1 knock-up mutant, but significantly reduced in pin6–2 (knock-out) and pin6–3 (knock-down). Metabolite profiling of pin6–2 nectar (Table S3) confirmed a significant reduction in nectar sugar, with total glucose being approximately 75% lower than in wild-type Col–0, consistent with the results obtained from the enzymatic assays shown in Figure 2. Other nectar metabolites displaying significant differences between pin6–2 and Col–0 are highlighted in Table S3. Although not fully penetrant, pin6–1 flowers also often displayed large nectar droplets, which were not observed in wild-type Col–0 (Figure 2b). Total nectar glucose was also significantly reduced in myb57–2 (Figure 2). Finally, the putative involvement of PIN6 in auxin-dependent processes led us to examine nectar production in the auxin co-receptor mutant tir1–1 (Ruegger et al., CITATION; Dharmasiri et al., CITATION). Total nectar glucose was significantly increased in tir1–1, phenocopying the pin6–1 knock-up mutant. To identify potential reasons for the altered nectar secretion observed in pin6 and myb57 lines, mutant flowers were subjected to gross morphological analyses. pin6–1 and pin6–3 showed no observable differences in overall floral morphology or nectary size compared with wild-type (Figure 3); however, pin6–2 flowers had petals that failed to fully expand, often had reduced nectary size, and lacked one or both short stamens significantly more frequently than wild-type (Figure 3 and Table 2). A wild-type Arabidopsis flower usually has four long stamens and two short stamens. The abnormal developmental phenotype of pin6–2 was complemented using a PIN6pro:PIN6-GFP construct (Figure S4), producing plants with petals that fully expanded, showed restored nectary size, and for which 86.6 ± 4.5% of flowers had both short stamens present, compared to 84.3 ± 3.2% of wild-type. n = 3 biological replicates of 100 flowers each. P values versus Col–0 are indicated (paired Student's t test); significant changes are shown in bold. Wild-type Arabidopsis flowers usually have two short stamens and four long stamens. [[FIGURE]] myb57–2 partially phenocopied the pin6–2 knockout mutant, having smaller lateral nectaries and missing one or both short stamens significantly more often than Col–0 (Figure 3 and Table 2). Further, when present, the short stamens of myb57–2 displayed a petaloid phenotype (Figure 4b,c). Interestingly, myb57–2 in the DR5:GUS background displayed extensive staining in the anther portion of the petal/anther fusion. RT–PCR on RNA isolated from myb57–2 anther/petal fusions also demonstrated a large increase in PIN6 expression compared with RNA isolated from Col–0 short stamen anthers. It should be noted that the petaloid stamen phenotype reverted to wild-type when complemented with a full-length genomic clone of MYB57 (Figure S4); however, the total number of short stamens present in complemented lines was only partially restored, with 72 ± 9.8% of flowers having both short stamens present, compared to 39.3 ± 16.2% in myb57–2 and 84.3 ± 3.2% in wild-type. The total amount of nectar in complemented myb57–2 lines was also partially restored, to 72 ± 19% of wild-type levels, whereas the amount of nectar in myb57–2 was 45 ± 9% of wild-type levels. The reason for the partial complementation phenotype of myb57–2 is unknown, although it is possible that MYB57 is mis-expressed in the myb57–2 mutant background due to the T–DNA insertion being located in the promoter region, and is thus not a true null allele. [[FIGURE]] pin6–2 and myb57–2 flowers partially phenocopied each other, displaying smaller lateral nectaries and reduced nectar production (Figures 2 and 3), as well as often lacking one or both short stamens (Figure 3 and Table 2). Further, PIN6 was mis-expressed in myb57–2 petaloid stamens (Figure 4). These results suggest that expression of these two genes may be dependent on the other for expression. RT-PCR analysis of gene expression in stage 14–15 (post-anthesis) flowers indicated that PIN6 is expressed at normal levels in myb57–2, and that MYB57 is also expressed normally in pin6–2 (Figure S1). Expression of a strong nectary-specific gene required for nectar production, AtSWEET9 (Lin IW, Chen L-Q, Sosso D, Gase K, Kim S-G, Kessler D, Klinkenberg P, Qu X-Q, Hou B-H, Carter C, Baldwin IT, Frommer WB, submitted), was also not altered in either myb57–2 or pin6–2. These results were later confirmed by transcriptome analysis of RNA isolated from the mature lateral nectaries of pin6–2 and myb57–2, as counts for both of these genes in each other's backgrounds were similar to those of the wild-type (Table S2, first column). Comparative analyses of the pin6–2 and myb57–2 mature lateral nectary transcriptomes identified many genes that were differentially expressed compared with wild-type in one or the other mutant background, but few that were differentially expressed in both pin6–2 and myb57–2 (Table S2). Genes with counts twofold higher or lower in both pin6–2 and myb57–2 versus wild-type are listed in the second and third columns of Table S2, respectively, with the vast majority being expressed at relatively low levels. No significant enrichment in gene ontologies was identified for genes that are differentially expressed in both pin6–2 and myb57–2 versus wild-type. It should be noted that we also examined the previously described myb57–1 mutant (SALK_065776), and did not observe any noticeable floral phenotype, consistent with previous findings (Cheng et al., CITATION). MYB57 activity was previously implicated in stamen development through redundant action with MYB21 and MYB24; however, only in higher-order mutants of these genes did stamens fail to properly elongate (Cheng et al., CITATION). Cheng et al. (CITATION) did not report missing short stamens or petaloid stamen phenotypes in the myb57–1 or higher-order myb mutants. The T–DNA insertion in myb57–1 occurs toward the 3′ end of the third and final exon of this mutant, thus it is possible some functional MYB57 is produced, resulting in no visible change in phenotype. To further examine a role for PIN6 and auxin in nectar production, pin6 alleles were crossed into the auxin-responsive DR5:GFP reporter line and examined by confocal laser scanning microscopy. In the wild-type background, the DR5:GFP reporter displayed extensive signal in the distal portion of both lateral and median nectaries (Figure 5a), which co-localized with expression of a PIN6pro:PIN6–GFP reporter gene (Figure 5d–f). However, the DR5:GFP signal was greatly reduced in the lateral nectaries of both the pin6–1 (knock-up) and pin6–2 (knock-out) backgrounds, even when the nectary morphology was normal (Figure 5b,c). Interestingly, DR5-dependent signal did not appear to be reduced in the median nectaries of pin6–1 or pin6–2. Similar observations were made for DR5:GUS for both the pin6–1 and pin6–2 alleles (Figure S5). Significantly, plant lines expressing PIN6pro:PIN6–GFP demonstrated that PIN6 expression overlaps with that of auxin response in Arabidopsis nectaries. [[FIGURE]] As DR5 reporter genes were expressed at a lower level in both knock-out (pin6–2) and knock-up (pin6–1) mutants in the lateral nectaries, the mutants’ responses to exogenous synthetic auxin [α–naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA)] and auxin transport inhibitor N–1–naphthylphthalamic acid (NPA) were examined. We observed a positive correlation between NAA concentration and nectar production in feeding experiments with up to 100 μm NAA in 10% sucrose solutions, with a sharp decline at higher concentrations (Peter M. Klinkenberg and Clay J. Carter, unpublished data); therefore 100 μm NAA and NPA were used in these studies. Exogenous NAA significantly increased nectar production in wild-type Col–0 (>10-fold), whereas NPA caused a > 2-fold reduction (Figure 6). Conversely, in pin6–1, NAA significantly reduced nectar production and NPA had no significant effect (Figure 6). No differences in nectar production were observed when pin6–2 was treated with NAA or NPA. While not statistically significant, nectar production in pin6–3 (knockdown) displayed responses to NAA and NPA that were similar to those for Col–0, but with smaller magnitude. These results may be due to pin6–3 being a knock-down rather than a knock-out mutant. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The background for all plant materials was Arabidopsis thaliana cv Col–0. T–DNA mutant lines for PIN6 (At1g77110: pin6–1,SALK_082098; pin6–2,SALK_046393; pin6–3, SALK_095142C) and MYB57 (At3g01530: myb57–2, SALK_030969) were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (Columbus, OH) (Alonso et al., CITATION), and genotyped to obtain homozygous mutants as described at http://signal.salk.edu/tdnaprimers.2.html. PIN6pro:GUS seed was also obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (CS9371), and DR5:GUS, DR5:GFP and tir1-1 were previously described (Ulmasov et al., CITATION; Ruegger et al., CITATION; Benkova et al., CITATION). PIN6pro:PIN6–GFP lines were created by amplifying a 6602 bp PIN6 genomic fragment from Col–0 DNA using the PIN6–FULL–F and PIN6–GFP–R primers (Table S5) and Phusion polymerase (New England BioLabs, http://www.neb.com), and directly cloned into the XhoI and XmaI sites of the GFP-containing binary vector pORE–R4 (Coutu et al., CITATION). This fragment contained 3051 bp of sequence upstream of the PIN6 start codon, together with the full PIN6 coding region, minus the stop codon, and was cloned in-frame with the GFP coding region found in pORE–R4. The sequence of the resulting construct, pCC15, was confirmed via dideoxy sequencing at the University of Minnesota DNA Sequencing and Analysis Facility (St Paul, MN), and transformed into Arabidopsis using Agrobacterium tumefaciens (GV3101) by the floral-dip method (Clough and Bent, CITATION). Transformed seedlings were selected on solid Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with kanamycin (50 μg ml). For myb57–2 complementation, the full-length gene (promoter and coding region of MYB57) was PCR-amplified using the primer pair MYB57 comp–F and MYB57 comp–R (Table S5), and then ligated into the EcoRI and SpeI sites of the plant transformation vector pORE_O3 (Coutu et al., CITATION), generating the construct pPMK23. myb57–2 was transformed with pPMK23 using Agrobacterium-mediated transformation by the floral-dip method (Clough and Bent, CITATION). Transformed plants were selected on half-strength Murashige & Skoog medium with 50 μm phosphinothricin. Healthy seedlings were transplanted into soil and genotyped for the presence of pPMK23. All plants were grown in individual pots on a peat-based growth medium with vermiculite and perlite (Pro-Mix BX; Premier Horticulture, http://www.pthorticulture.com/) in Percival AR66LX environmental chambers (http://www.percival-scientific.com/) under standard conditions: 16 h day/8 h night cycle, with a photosynthetic flux of 150 μmol m−2 sec−1 and a temperature of 23°C. Unless noted otherwise, all chemicals were obtained from Sigma-Aldrich Chemical Co. (http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/) or Thermo Fisher Scientific (http://www.fishersci.com/). Scanning electron microscopy and confocal analyses were performed as previously described (Ruhlmann et al., CITATION), except that DAPI, which is usually used as a nuclear stain, was found to extensively label the thick cuticle covering the nectaries. The cuticle prevented extensive staining of nectary parenchyma nuclei, even with extended periods of incubation. Thus, DAPI was used primarily as a counter-stain to observe the nectary surface. Flowers with sepals removed were briefly placed in 300 nM DAPI, and rinsed in ddH2O just prior to imaging. Promoter–GUS assays were performed as previously described (Jefferson et al., CITATION). For both end-point and quantitative RT–PCR, RNA was isolated from tissues using an Absolutely RNA Miniprep kit according to the manufacturer's instructions (Agilent, http://www.agilent.com/). RNA quality was confirmed by spectrophotometric analysis and agarose gel electrophoresis. For end-point RT–PCR analyses, total RNA (200 ng) was used as a template in the Promega reverse transcription system (http://www.promega.com/). The resulting cDNA (1 μl) was PCR-amplified using GoTaq Green Master Mix (Promega) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Expression was analyzed on 1% agarose gels using SybrSafe (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com/). A minimum of three biological replicates and corresponding PCR reactions were used to confirm results. The sequences of the primers designed for gene expression analyses are given in Table S5. For 3′ RACE in pin6 mutants, total RNA was reverse-transcribed using the Promega reverse trancription system with the 3′ adapter + the oligo(dT)oligonucleotide primer (Table S5), and subsequently subjected to PCR amplification using the PIN6 qPCR F and 3′ RACE adapter oligonucleotide primers. RACE PCR products were subjected to DNA sequencing at the University of Minnesota DNA Sequencing and Analysis Facility (St Paul, MN). For quantitative real-time PCR analyses, total RNA (100 ng) from pin6–1, pin6–2, pin6–3 and wild-type Arabidopsis flowers was used as template for cDNA synthesis via the QuantiTech reverse transcription kit (Qiagen, http://www.qiagen.com/). Synthesized cDNA (50 ng) was added to the real-time PCR reaction set-up, which included 12.5 μl of 2 x Rotor-Gene SYBR Green PCR Master Mix (Qiagen), 2.5 μm forward primer and 2.5 μm reverse primer to a final reaction volume of 25 μl. Primers were designed based on the Roche Universal Probe Library (www.roche-applied-science.com) using the accession numbers At1g77110 (PIN6) and At1g49240 (ACTIN8) (Table S1). The PIN6 quantitative RT–PCR primers spanned the T–DNA insertion site for pin6–1, and were located 3′ to the insertion sites for pin6–2 and pin6–3. Standard curve reactions were prepared using serial dilutions of shoot cDNA and ACTIN8 primers. The standard curve, pin6 and wild-type reactions were set up in triplicate and incubated at 95°C for 5 min, then underwent 40 cycles of 95°C for 5 sec followed by 60°C for 10 sec in a Corbett Rotor-Gene 3000 Light Cycler (http://www.corbettlifescience.com/). SYBR Green fluorescence was detected during the 60°C incubation step. Standard reaction analysis was performed using the rotor-gene 6 software. PCR reactions were performed six times. The three most efficient trials were chosen for final comparison. Nectar collection was performed as previously described (Bender et al., CITATION). Briefly, a single biological replicate for nectar glucose assays consisted of nectar collected from the lateral nectaries of ten stage 14–15 flowers using small, uniform wicks cut from Whatman No. 1 filter paper (http://www.whatman.com/). Completed wicks were placed in 500 μl of nuclease-free water for elution, and stored at −20°C until further analysis. Relative glucose concentration was then analyzed using a modified glucose oxidase assay as previously described (Bethke and Busse, CITATION; Ruhlmann et al., CITATION; Bender et al., CITATION). Nectar collection for full metabolite analyses was performed as for glucose assays, except that 20 flowers were used for a single biological replicate, and the nectar was eluted in 100 μl nuclease-free water. Nectar samples used for metabolomic analyses were flash-frozen and stored at −80°C until analyzed via GC×GC/MS (Agilent, Santa Clara, CA, USA, http://www.agilent.com) as previously described (Bender et al., CITATION) at the W.M. Metabolomics Research Laboratory at Iowa State University (Ames, IA). The peduncles of freshly cut inflorescences were placed in 10% w/v sucrose solutions in MES-buffered MS medium (pH 5.8) containing 100 μm of either the synthetic auxin α–naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA; MP Biomedicals, http://www.mpbio.com/) or the auxin transport inhibitor N–1–naphthylphthalamic acid (NPA; Supelco, www.sigmaaldrich.com/Supelco). Peduncles were chosen based on the number of inflorescences nearing stage 13 (anthesis), which averaged between four and five for every three peduncles treated. Following a 20 h incubation in a dark, humid environment, nectar was collected from the lateral nectaries of five stage 14–15 flowers (post-anthesis, secretory) using paper wicks and assayed for total glucose. Data are presented as the percentage increase or decrease in total nectar glucose relative to mock treatments for each individual line (n = 3 biological replicates of nectar collected from five flowers each, **P < 0.005 relative to mock treatments via Student's paired two-tailed t-test). The mean probe set signal intensities for all PIN family genes expressed in Arabidopsis nectaries, as identified by an Affymetrix ATH1 GeneChip® microarray (http://www.affymetrix.com/), were compared to those in 13 tissues at multiple developmental stages, and are presented in Table S1. The raw normalized microarray data used for the analyses presented here were originally presented by Kram et al. (CITATION). Collection of mature lateral nectaries from stage 14–15 flowers (Col–0, pin6–2 and myb57–2), and subsequent RNA isolation and quality controls were performed as previously described (Kram et al., CITATION). Sequencing libraries were created using TruSeq RNA Sample Prep Kits (Illumina, http://www.illumina.com), and sequenced as 100 bp single end reads via Illumina HiSeq 2000 at the University of Minnesota DNA Sequencing and Analysis Facility (St Paul, MN). The number of reads for the wild-type Col–0, myb57–2 and pin6–2 samples were 24 712 426, 28 031 745 and 17 085 542, respectively. Sequences were compared to the TAIR10 reference (version updated 14 December 2010) using blastn version 2.2.25+ (National Center for Biotechnology Information; Altschul et al., CITATION). Quantification of splice variants was performed using bowtie (version 0.12.7) and tophat (version 1.3.3) (Langmead et al., CITATION; Trapnell et al., CITATION). For blastn alignments, an E–value cut-off of 10−5 and a bit score of at least 75 were required. Counts were normalized using upper-quartile normalization (Bullard et al., CITATION). The correction multipliers were 1.05, 0.79 and 1.27 for the wild-type, myb57–2 and pin6–2 samples, respectively. Full RNA-seq count data are presented in Table S2, and corresponding data have been deposited in NCBI Sequence Read Archive as SRA056392.
