!~ABS~! Very-long-chain fatty acids (VLCFAs) with chain lengths from 20 to 34 carbons are involved in diverse biological functions such as membrane constituents, a surface barrier, and seed storage compounds. The first step in VLCFA biosynthesis is the condensation of two carbons to an acyl-coenzyme A, which is catalyzed by 3-ketoacyl-coenzyme A synthase (KCS). In this study, amino acid sequence homology and the messenger RNA expression patterns of 21 Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) KCSs were compared. The in planta role of the KCS9 gene, showing higher expression in stem epidermal peels than in stems, was further investigated. The KCS9 gene was ubiquitously expressed in various organs and tissues, including roots, leaves, and stems, including epidermis, silique walls, sepals, the upper portion of the styles, and seed coats, but not in developing embryos. The fluorescent signals of the KCS9::enhanced yellow fluorescent protein construct were merged with those of BrFAD2::monomeric red fluorescent protein, which is an endoplasmic reticulum marker in tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) epidermal cells. The kcs9 knockout mutants exhibited a significant reduction in C24 VLCFAs but an accumulation of C20 and C22 VLCFAs in the analysis of membrane and surface lipids. The mutant phenotypes were rescued by the expression of KCS9 under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. Taken together, these data demonstrate that KCS9 is involved in the elongation of C22 to C24 fatty acids, which are essential precursors for the biosynthesis of cuticular waxes, aliphatic suberins, and membrane lipids, including sphingolipids and phospholipids. Finally, possible roles of unidentified KCSs are discussed by combining genetic study results and gene expression data from multiple Arabidopsis KCSs.
!~RES~! In previous studies, the Arabidopsis genome was shown to contain 21 KCS genes (CITATION). To analyze the relationship among KCS genes, pairwise multiple alignment was carried out using ClustalW Web software (http://www.genome.jp/tools/clustalw) with the BLOSUM matrix form, which is based on amino acid sequences, and then a rooted phylogenetic tree with branch length (Unweighted Pair Group Method with Arithmetic Mean) was constructed (Supplemental Fig. S1A). Based on the Arabidopsis microarray analysis (http://www.arabidopsis.org; CITATION), the relative expression patterns of 21 KCS genes were analyzed in various organs or tissues, including seeds, roots, flowers, leaves, stems, and epidermis. KCS genes were divided into eight groups (I–VIII). Group I was first divided from the other KCSs. However, the expression patterns of the KCS genes in group I were very similar to those in groups IV and VI; they were expressed in aerial parts but rarely or not expressed in roots. KCS21 and KCS7 in group II and KCS15 in group III were very rarely or not expressed in Arabidopsis organs. KCS18 (FAE1) and KCS19 displayed seed-specific and seed-predominant expression, respectively. KCS10 (FDH), KCS4, KCS9, KCS11, KCS20, KCS2 (DAISY), and KCS1 genes were ubiquitously expressed in Arabidopsis, suggesting that they may play a role in VLCFA synthesis, which is required for growth and development. KCS14 and KCS13 in group VIII were predominantly expressed in reproductive organs rather than vegetative organs. KCS10 (FDH), KCS6 (CER6/CUT1), KCS5 (CER60), KCS20, KCS2 (DAISY), and KCS1, which are involved in cuticular wax biosynthesis (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), showed higher expression in stem epidermal peels than in stems (Supplemental Fig. S1B). To confirm the relative expression level of the KCS9 gene in different organs or tissues, total RNAs were isolated from 2-week-old roots, 2-week-old seedlings, rosette leaves, cauline leaves, open flowers, pollen grains, and siliques from 6-week-old plants, and stems and stem epidermal peels from 5-week-old plants and subsequently subjected to quantitative reverse transcription (qRT)-PCR analysis. Eukaryotic translation initiation factor4-a (EIF4-a) was used as an internal factor to verify RNA quantity and quality (CITATION). As shown in Figure 1A, the level of the KCS9 transcripts was highest in the stem epidermal peels and was moderately detected in aerial parts of plants, including rosette and cauline leaves, open flowers, pollen grains, silique walls, and stems. Also, the expression of the KCS9 gene was relatively very low in roots and young seedlings. This result was very similar to those obtained from the microarray analysis (Fig. 1A; Supplemental Fig. S1B). [[FIGURE]] To investigate the spatial and temporal expression of the KCS9 gene, a GUS reporter gene under the control of the KCS9 promoter was introduced into Arabidopsis. T2 transgenic plants were histochemically stained with 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl β-d-glucuronide for GUS expression. After chlorophyll pigments were removed by sequential incubation in 10% to 100% ethanol, the stained organs were imaged using a microscope (Leica L2) or embedded in acrylic resin and cross sectioned. GUS expression was observed in young seedlings, leaves, stems, silique walls, anthers, sepals, upper portion of styles, and seed coats but not in developing embryos. As was observed in the qRT-PCR analysis, GUS expression was also found in leaf and stem epidermal cells (Fig. 1B). To examine the subcellular localization of KCS9, the coding sequence region of the KCS9 gene was amplified by PCR using the F1/R1 primer set (Supplemental Table S1). The amplified DNA fragments were inserted into the pPZP212 vector containing the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter and enhanced yellow fluorescent protein (eYFP), and the resultant construct was named pKCS9::eYFP (Fig. 2A). In addition, the pBrFAD2::mRFP (for monomeric red fluorescent protein) construct, which harbored the microsomal oleic acid desaturase gene from Brassica rapa under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter, was used as an ER marker (CITATION). Agrobacteria transformed with the pKCS9::eYFP or pBrFAD2::mRFP construct were coinfiltrated into tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) epidermal cells. After 48 h of incubation, fluorescent signals were observed using an AOBS/Tandem laser confocal scanning microscope (Leica). The green fluorescent signals from KCS9::eYFP were found to be exactly merged with the red fluorescent signals from pBrFAD2::mRFP (Fig. 2B), indicating that KCS9 was localized in the ER. [[FIGURE]] To investigate the function of KCS9 in Arabidopsis, a transfer DNA (T-DNA)-inserted kcs9 mutant (SALK 028563) was isolated by genomic DNA PCR using F1/R1 and Lba1/R1 primer sets (Supplemental Table S1), as shown in Figure 3, A and B. To examine the level of KCS9 transcripts, total RNAs were isolated from the wild type (Columbia-0 [Col-0]) and the kcs9 mutant and subjected to reverse transcription (RT)-PCR. Expression of the KCS9 transcripts was observed in the wild type but not in the kcs9 mutants (Fig. 3C). Under long-day growth conditions for Arabidopsis (16 h of light/8 h of dark), the kcs9 mutants were found to grow and develop normally. No significant alteration in root growth of kcs9 mutants compared with the wild type was observed under room and cold (10°C and 15°C) temperatures (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] For complementation of the kcs9 mutant, the KCS9::eYFP construct under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter shown in Figure 2A was transformed into the kcs9 mutant via Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation. Kanamycin-resistant transgenic kcs9 lines were further selected by identifying the introduced genes using genomic DNA PCR analysis. The level of the KCS9 transcripts was measured by RT-PCR in the leaves of the wild type, kcs9, and complementation lines. The KCS9 transcripts were observed in complementation lines as well as the wild type (Fig. 3D). As shown in Figure 1 and Supplemental Figure S1B, the KCS9 gene was ubiquitously expressed. To investigate if KCS9 is involved in VLCFA synthesis in various Arabidopsis organs and tissues, total fatty acids were extracted from leaves, aerial parts, and roots of young seedlings and stems, flowers, and silique walls of the wild type, kcs9, and three complementation lines and analyzed using gas chromatography (GC). In the fatty acid analysis, we found that the composition of VLCFAs was altered in the kcs9 mutant relative to the wild type, although the VLCFA content was very low in all organs tested except the roots. In leaves and stems, the C20 and C22 fatty acid content was higher in kcs9 than in the wild type, and the chemical mutant phenotype was completely restored in the complementation lines (Fig. 4, A and B). An increase in the amount of C20 and C22 fatty acids was also observed in the aerial parts of young seedlings and flower organs of the kcs9 mutant (Fig. 4, C and E). Similarly, the C22 fatty acid content was higher in kcs9 silique walls than in the wild type (Fig. 4F). In addition, the C20 fatty acid content in the roots of kcs9 was higher, but the C24 fatty acid content was significantly lower (Fig. 4D). However, no significant differences were observed in total amounts of fatty acids from the various organs of the wild type, kcs9, and the three complementation lines, except for the roots (Supplemental Fig. S2A). This difference in VLCFA composition was closely related to the expression pattern of the KCS9 gene observed in the various Arabidopsis organs. This result indicates that KCS9 might function in the elongation of C22 VLCFAs to C24 VLCFAs. [[FIGURE]] In addition, the profile of fatty acyl-CoAs was analyzed from roots of kcs9 and wild-type plants to identify the products of KCS9. The contents of C24:0- and C26:0-CoAs were decreased by approximately 50%, but the levels of C14:0- and C22:0-CoAs were significantly increased in the kcs9 mutant relative to the wild type (Fig. 4G), indicating that KCS9 is involved in the elongation of C22:0-CoA to C24:0-CoA. Interestingly, the C24:1-CoA levels were decreased, but the C22:1-CoA contents were not significantly altered in kcs9 compared with the wild type (Fig. 4G). Higher expression of the KCS9 gene in stem epidermal peels than in stems suggests that KCS9 may be involved in cuticular wax biosynthesis. To determine if this was the case, cuticular waxes were extracted from leaves, stems, and seed coats of the wild type, kcs9, and three complementation lines and analyzed using GC. In the leaves, the amounts of C24 and C26 VLCFAs were decreased by 40% and 25% in kcs9 compared with the wild type, respectively. In addition, the chemical mutant phenotype was rescued in the leaves of the complementation lines by the expression of KCS9 under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter (Fig. 5A). The contents of C26 and C28 primary alcohols, C28 aldehydes, and C26 VLCFAs were decreased in kcs9 stems relative to the wild type (Fig. 5B). These decreases in C26 and C28 VLCFAs were observed in kcs9 seed coats (Fig. 5C). However, total wax amounts were not significantly altered in kcs9 relative to the wild type (Supplemental Fig. S2B). This result revealed that KCS9 is involved in cuticular wax biosynthesis. [[FIGURE]] As shown in Figure 1B, GUS expression in the roots and seed coats prompted us to examine the composition and amounts of suberin polyesters. Aliphatic suberin polyesters were extracted from roots and seed coats of the wild type, kcs9, and three complementation lines and hydrolyzed, and lipid-soluble extracts were analyzed using GC-mass spectrometry. The amounts of C24 fatty acids and C24 ω-hydroxy fatty acids were decreased, but the level of C22 fatty acids was increased in kcs9 roots relative to the wild type (Fig. 6A). Increased levels of C20 and C22 ω-hydroxy fatty acids and C18, C18:2, and C22 α,ω-dicarboxylic acids, but decreased levels of C24 VLCFAs and α,ω-dicarboxylic acids, were also observed in the kcs9 seed coat relative to the wild type (Fig. 6B). In addition, the chemical phenotype of the kcs9 mutant was rescued in complementation lines (Fig. 6A). No significant changes were observed in total amounts of aliphatic suberins from the roots of the wild type, kcs9, and three complementation lines (Supplemental Fig. S2C). This result also indicates that KCS9 is involved in the elongation of C24 fatty acids from C22 fatty acids, which are required for the biosynthesis of the suberin polyesters present in roots and seed coats. [[FIGURE]] Because VLCFA moieties are also essential components in sphingolipids and phospholipids such as PS and PE, the role of KCS9 was investigated in sphingolipid and phospholipid metabolism. Sphingolipid analysis was performed on 2-week-old seedlings of the wild type, kcs9, and three complementation lines. The amounts of C20 and C22 VLCFAs were increased by 20 mol %, but the levels of C24 VLCFAs were decreased by 25% in all sphingolipid species, ceramide, glycosyl inositolphosphoceramide, glucosylceramide, and hydroxyceramide in kcs9 compared with the wild type (Fig. 7). The C26 VLCFA content was also decreased in ceramide and glucosylceramide of the kcs9 mutant relative to the wild type (Fig. 7, A and C). However, the total amount of sphingolipids was not altered in the kcs9 mutant relative to the wild type (Supplemental Fig. S2D). The sphingolipid profile of complementation lines was almost identical to that of the wild type (Fig. 7). Similar results were also observed in the sphingolipid analysis of leaves (Supplemental Fig. S3). [[FIGURE]] In addition, glycerolipid analysis was performed on 10-d-old roots of wild-type and kcs9 plants. As expected, the amounts of C22 fatty acids were increased in PS and PE, but no changes were observed in phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylinositol, monogalactosyl diacylglycerol, and digalactosyl diacylglycerol in kcs9 compared with the wild type. Unexpectedly, a decrease in the content of oleic acids and an increase in the content of linoleic acids in phosphatidylglycerol were observed in the kcs9 mutant relative to the wild type (Fig. 8). These results confirmed the role of KCS9 in sphingolipid and phospholipid biosynthesis. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) T-DNA insertion mutant was obtained from SALK (SALK 028563) as ecotype Col-0. Using the genomic DNA PCR method, T-DNA-inserted homozygous plants were isolated due to the loss of antibiotic resistance. The sterilized seeds were germinated on one-half-strength Murashige and Skoog (1/2 MS) medium containing 1% (w/v) Suc and 0.6% (w/v) agar. For the screening of transgenic seeds, kanamycin (25 μg mL−1) was supplemented in the 1/2 MS medium. Plants were grown on soil under a long-day condition (16 h/8 h of light/dark) at 22°C with 60% humidity. For the generation of complementation lines of kcs9 mutants, the KCS9::eYFP construct under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter (for details, see “Subcellular Localization” below) was introduced into the kcs9 mutants via Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation using the vacuum infiltration method (CITATION). In the subcellular localization assay, the third and fourth leaves of 3-week-old tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) were used to inoculate A. tumefaciens harboring the pKCS9::eYFP or pBrFAD2::mRFP construct (CITATION). Total RNAs were extracted using the RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen) and converted into complementary DNAs (cDNAs) by reverse transcriptase following the manufacturer’s protocols (Promega). qRT-PCR was performed using the Q-F1 and Q-R1 primer set shown in Supplemental Table S1. As an internal control, EIF4-a was amplified using EIF4-F1 and EIF4-R1 (Supplemental Table S1). For quantitative analysis of RNA transcript levels, the KAPA SYBR FAST qRT-PCR kit (KAPA Biosystem) and the C1000 thermal cycler (Bio-Rad) were used according to each manufacturer’s instructions. To certify the subcellular localization, the binary plasmid pPZP212 (CITATION) was modified by inserting 35S promoter, eYFP, and Rbcs terminator. The coding region of the KCS9 gene was amplified from Arabidopsis leaf cDNAs using the F1/R1 primer set (Supplemental Table S1). The synthesized DNA fragment was inserted into modified pPZP212 vector under the control of the 35S promoter. The resultant binary plasmid was referred to as pKCS9::eYFP. The BrFAD2::mRFP construct was used as an ER marker (CITATION). The binary constructs were transformed into the A. tumefaciens strain GV3101 using the freeze-thaw method (CITATION). A. tumefaciens harboring each vector was coinfiltrated into the abaxial epidermal cells of tobacco leaves at an optical density of 600 nm = 0.8. To examine GUS expression under the control of the KCS9 promoter, the promoter region of KCS9 (approximately 2 kb) was amplified by genomic DNA PCR using proF1 and proR1 (Supplemental Table S1), and the amplified DNA fragments were inserted into the XbaI and SmaI sites in the pBI101 vector. Arabidopsis was transformed by A. tumefaciens harboring the generated vector (CITATION). After screening on the 1/2 MS medium supplemented with 25 μg mL−1 kanamycin and 100 μg mL−1 carbenicillin, transgenic seedlings and various organs of transgenic plants were stained with the GUS staining solution (100 mm sodium phosphate, pH 7.0, 1 mm 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-glucuronide, 0.5 mm potassium ferrocyanide, 0.5 mm potassium ferricyanide, 10 mm Na2EDTA, and 0.1% [v/v] Triton X-100) using 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl β-d-glucuronide as a substrate at 37°C for 12 h. The chlorophylls of stained tissues were removed using graded ethanol from 10% to 100%. The images were acquired using a Leica L2 microscope. To visualize the cross sections of stems and leaves, dehydrated GUS samples were embedded in acrylic resin (LR White resin; London Resin Company) and then sliced using a MT990 microtom (RMC) at thicknesses ranging from 10 to 20 μm. The sliced tissues were observed and photographed with a light microscope (Leica L2). Fatty acids were extracted from the aerial parts and roots of 2-week-old seedlings and leaves, stems, flowers, and silique walls of 4- to 6-week-old plants and transmethylated in 1 mL of methanol containing 5% (v/v) sulfuric acid at 90°C for 1 h. Heptadecanoic acid (17:0) was used as an internal standard. One milliliter of aqueous 0.9% NaCl was added, and the fatty acid methyl esters were recovered by three sequential extractions with 2 mL of hexane. The fatty acid methyl esters were then analyzed using GC (Shimadzu) as described by CITATION. The fatty acids were identified by comparing the retention times and mass spectra with standards. Cuticular waxes were extracted by immersing the leaves, stems, and silique walls in 5 mL of chloroform. n-Octacosane (200 μg g−1 fresh weight), docosanoic acid (200 μg g−1 fresh weight), and 1-tricosanol (200 μg g−1 fresh weight) were used as internal standards. After the solvent of the wax extracts was removed under nitrogen gas, bis-N,N-trimethylsilyl trifluoroacetamide (Sigma):pyridine (1:1, v/v) was added and incubated at 90% for 30 min. The reaction samples were evaporated again under nitrogen gas and dissolved in heptane:toluene (1:1, v/v). The composition and amount of cuticular waxes were analyzed using GC (Shimadzu) as described by CITATION. Single compounds were quantified against internal standards by automatically integrating the peak areas. Suberin polyester analysis from roots of 2-week-old seedlings and seed coats of dried seeds was performed using the methods described by CITATION. Methyl heptadecanoate and ω-pentadecalactone (Sigma) were used as internal standards. The lyophilized roots and seed coats were boiled in 25 mL of isopropanol for 10 min and delipidated in CHCl3:CH3OH (2:1, v/v) and CHCl3:CH3OH (1:2, v/v). The dried solvent-extracted residues of the roots and seed coats were methanolyzed using NaOCH3 and then depolymerized by hydrogenolysis. The prepared samples were separated and quantified by GC-mass spectrometry (QP2010; Shimazu) using the method described by CITATION. Two-week-old Arabidopsis seedlings were used for sphingolipid analysis as described by CITATION. Three milliliters of extraction solvent (isopropanol:water:hexane, 55:25:20, v/v/v) and 10 µL of an internal standard solution were added to approximately 10 to 15 mg of lyophilized tissues and homogenized. GM1 (monosialotetrahexosylganglioside), glucosyl-C12-ceramide, C12-ceramide, C17-sphingosine, and C17-sphingosine-1-P were used as internal standards. Completely homogenized tissues were incubated at 60°C for 15 min and centrifuged at 500g for 10 min. The supernatant was transferred into a new glass tube, and remaining pellets were reextracted with 3 mL of extraction solvent. After heating and spinning, the second supernatant was added to the first supernatant. The extracted solvent was dried under nitrogen gas and dissolved in 2 mL of 33% methylamine in ethanol:water (7:3, v/v). The dissolved mixtures were sonicated and heated at 50°C for 1 h. Subsequently, the solvent was evaporated under nitrogen gas and redissolved in sample solvent (tetrahydrofuran:methanol:water, 2:1:2, v/v/v) containing 0.1% formic acid. Extracted sphingolipids were analyzed by HPLC-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry (ESI-MS/MS) as described by CITATION. Roots of 2-week-old wild-type and kcs9 mutant plants were ground with liquid nitrogen and quickly immersed in 3 mL of preheated (75°C) isopropanol with 0.01% butylated hydroxytoluene (Sigma) for 15 min. Chloroform (1.5 mL) and 0.6 mL of water were added, vortexed, and agitated for 1 h. Lipid extracts were transferred into a new glass tube with Teflon-lined screw caps. Four milliliters of chloroform:methanol (2:1) with 0.01% butylated hydroxytoluene was added and shaken for 30 min. The extraction procedure was repeated three times. The extracts were washed with 1 mL of 1 m KCl and 2 mL of water. After centrifuging, the upper phase was discarded and the lower phase was used for further experiments. Individual lipids were separated by one-dimensional thin-layer chromatography on (NH4)2SO4-impregnated silica gel G (CITATION). The thin-layer chromatography plate was developed with acetone:toluene:water (91 mL:30 mL:7.5 mL) solvent. Glycerophospholipids were located by spraying the plate with 0.01% primuline in 80% acetone and then visualized under UV light. To determine the fatty acid composition of individual lipids, silica gel from each lipid spot was scraped, and fatty acid methyl esters were prepared and analyzed as described above. Acyl-CoAs were extracted from pooled, lyophilized dry residues of 2-week-old roots of kcs9 and wild-type plants according to the extraction protocol of CITATION with modifications. Four technical replicates were prepared using 5 mg of lyophilized tissue per replicate. Freshly prepared extraction buffer (400 µL) containing 10 pmol of pentadecanoyl-CoA (C15:0-CoA) as an internal standard was added to the sample. The extract was washed three times with 400 µL of heptane saturated with isopropanol:water (1:1, v/v). Saturated (NH4)2SO4 (10 µL) was added to the extract and mixed by inversion. Methanol:chloroform (2:1, v/v) at 1.2 mL was added, incubated at room temperature for 20 min, and then centrifuged at 20,000g for 2 min. The supernatant was transferred to a 13- × 100-mm glass tube and evaporated at 42°C under nitrogen to dryness using a Reacti-Vap evaporator (Thermo). The fatty acyl-CoAs were resuspended in 400 µL of 30% acetonitrile in water for liquid chromatography-ESI-MS/MS analysis. Acyl-CoAs were separated by HPLC on a Phenomenex Luna C18 column (3 × 150 mm, 3.5-µm particle size, fitted with a guard cartridge and operated at a flow rate of 300 µL min−1) and quantified by ESI-MS/MS using the method of CITATION with modifications. The liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry system consisted of a Prominence ultra-performance liquid chromatography device (Shimadzu) equipped with three pumps and a QTRAP 4000 mass spectrometer (Applied Biosystems). Injection volumes of 30 to 50 µL were used. Solvent A (acetonitrile:water, 10:90 [v/v] containing 15 mm NH4OH), solvent B (acetonitrile:water 90:10 [v/v] containing 15 mm NH4OH), and solvent C (acetonitrile:water 70:30 [v/v] containing 0.1% formic acid) were used the following experiment. The 16-min gradient was initiated at 10% B/90% A (0 min) and increased to 30% B/70% A (at 5 min), further increased to 50% B/50% A (at 10 min), held at 50% B/50% A (at 11 min), returned to 0% B/0% A (12 min), and held at 100% C (from 12 to 13 min) for column regeneration. Column reequilibration at 0% B/100% A was from 14 to 15 min. For fatty acyl-CoA detection by ESI-MS/MS, the QTRAP mass spectrometer was operated in positive mode with the following instrument settings: spray voltage, 5,000 V; source temperature, 350°C; gas 1, 70 pounds per square inch (psi); gas 2, 30 psi; curtain gas, 15 psi; collision gas pressure medium, entrance potential 10. Declustering potentials (ranging from 180 to 210 V) and collision energies (ranging from 50 to 54 V) were optimized using fatty acyl-CoA standards. Data collection was done using Analyst 1.5 software, and data analysis was done using Multiquant 2.0 software (ABSciex). Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession number At2g16280 (KCS9). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Phylogenetic tree and relative expression patterns of the 21 KCS genes in Arabidopsis. Supplemental Figure S2. Total amounts of fatty acids, cuticular waxes, aliphatic suberins, and sphingolipids from the wild type, kcs9, and complementation lines. Supplemental Figure S3. Sphingolipid analysis in leaves of the wild type, kcs9, and complementation lines. Supplemental Figure S4. Expression of the KCS9 gene by application of osmotic and salt stresses and abscisic acid hormone. Supplemental Table S1. Oligonucleotide sequences of primers used in this study.
