!~ABS~! Plants make coenzyme A (CoA) in the cytoplasm but use it for reactions in mitochondria, chloroplasts, and peroxisomes, implying that these organelles have CoA transporters. A plant peroxisomal CoA transporter is already known, but plant mitochondrial or chloroplastic CoA transporters are not. Mitochondrial CoA transporters belonging to the mitochondrial carrier family, however, have been identified in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae; Leu-5p) and mammals (SLC25A42). Comparative genomic analysis indicated that angiosperms have two distinct homologs of these mitochondrial CoA transporters, whereas nonflowering plants have only one. The homologs from maize (Zea mays; GRMZM2G161299 and GRMZM2G420119) and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana; At1g14560 and At4g26180) all complemented the growth defect of the yeast leu5Δ mitochondrial CoA carrier mutant and substantially restored its mitochondrial CoA level, confirming that these proteins have CoA transport activity. Dual-import assays with purified pea (Pisum sativum) mitochondria and chloroplasts, and subcellular localization of green fluorescent protein fusions in transiently transformed tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) Bright Yellow-2 cells, showed that the maize and Arabidopsis proteins are targeted to mitochondria. Consistent with the ubiquitous importance of CoA, the maize and Arabidopsis mitochondrial CoA transporter genes are expressed at similar levels throughout the plant. These data show that representatives of both monocotyledons and eudicotyledons have twin, mitochondrially located mitochondrial carrier family carriers for CoA. The highly conserved nature of these carriers makes possible their reliable annotation in other angiosperm genomes.
!~RES~! An earlier analysis of Arabidopsis, human, and yeast MCF proteins identified At1g14560 and At4g26180 as potential CoA carriers, based on the presence of sequence motifs (symmetry-related amino acid triplets) similar to those in known, mitochondrially localized CoA carriers (CITATION). At1g14560 and At4g26180 share only 59% amino acid identity and so are substantially diverged. BLAST searches of the maize genome using each Arabidopsis sequence as query detected GRMZM2G420119 and GRMZM2G161299 (henceforth ZM420119 and ZM161299) as the closest homologs (66%–67% identity) of At1g14560 and At4g26180, respectively. All four proteins have the tripartite structure that characterizes the MCF (CITATION) and are predicted to contain the usual six transmembrane domains (Supplemental Fig. S1). Phylogenetic analyses of these proteins, the human and yeast mitochondrial CoA carriers, and all Arabidopsis, yeast, and human MCF proteins consistently placed all four candidates and the yeast and human CoA carriers in the same clade. Thus, among all 58 Arabidopsis MCF proteins, those closest to the known mitochondrially localized CoA carriers are the candidates (Fig. 1A), and among all yeast or human MCF proteins, the candidates are closest to the known mitochondrial CoA carriers (Supplemental Fig. S2). The recently identified peroxisomal CoA carriers from human (CITATION) and Arabidopsis (CITATION) occupy a very different clade (Fig. 1A). [[FIGURE]] The phylogenetic trees all separate the four candidate genes into two types: type 1 composed of At1g14560 and ZM420119, and type 2 composed of At4g26180 and ZM161299 (Fig. 1A; Supplemental Fig. S2). One or two genes of each type were found in all other eudicotyledon and monocotyledon genomes and transcriptomes examined as well as in that of the basal angiosperm Amborella trichopoda (Fig. 1B; Supplemental Fig. S3). In contrast, gymnosperms had type 1 but not type 2 sequences, whereas lower plants each had a single sequence that could not be confidently assigned to either type (Fig. 1B; Supplemental Fig. S3). Deletion of the yeast LEU5 gene, encoding a mitochondrial CoA transporter, results in strongly retarded growth on rich medium containing a nonfermentable carbon source, and expression of a functional CoA carrier protein in the deletant (leu5Δ) strain restores normal growth (CITATION). The human Leu-5p homolog, SLC25A42, used as a positive control, restored normal growth on 1% yeast extract, 2% bacto-peptone (YP) medium plates containing 3% glycerol, as expected (CITATION). Similarly, all four candidate plant CoA transporters, At1g14560, At4g26180, ZM420119, and ZM161299, restored normal growth, as opposed to little or no growth for cells transformed with vector alone or a negative control (the Arabidopsis NAD+ carrier AtNDT1; Fig. 2). Similar results were obtained in liquid medium (Supplemental Fig. S4). These data indicate that the plant type 1 and type 2 proteins have CoA transport activity and that they are targeted to mitochondria in yeast. Furthermore, because the yeast Leu-5p protein is known to be in the mitochondrial inner membrane (CITATION), the observed complementation by the plant proteins indicates that they are likewise, at least in part, localized in the inner membrane when expressed in yeast. [[FIGURE]] The CoA content in mitochondria of the leu5Δ strain is severely reduced compared with the wild type, reflecting the role of Leu-5p in mitochondrial CoA import (CITATION). The candidate proteins from maize and Arabidopsis complemented this biochemical phenotype of the leu5Δ strain: expression of the type 1 candidates At1g14560 and ZM420119 fully restored mitochondrial CoA levels to that of the wild type; expression of the type 2 candidates At4g26180 and ZM161299 restored levels to over one-half that of the wild type (Fig. 3). These data reinforce the conclusion that the plant proteins mediate CoA transport into yeast mitochondria. [[FIGURE]] Organellar targeting of the four CoA carrier candidates was investigated using dual-import assays, in which labeled proteins are incubated with a mixture of purified pea (Pisum sativum) mitochondria and chloroplasts and then reisolated (CITATION). Soybean (Glycine max) alternative oxidase (CITATION) and Arabidopsis YgfZ protein (CITATION) were used as positive controls for mitochondrial and chloroplast import, respectively. All four candidates behaved similarly to the mitochondria-targeted control protein (i.e. the reisolated mitochondria treated with thermolysin contained a labeled band corresponding to the imported protein; Fig. 4), which indicates an intramitochondrial location and is consistent with the complementation evidence above for an inner membrane location. The observed lack of difference between the molecular mass of the precursors and the imported proteins is expected, because MCF proteins typically lack cleavable targeting peptides (CITATION; CITATION). None of the candidates mirrored the behavior of the chloroplast-targeted control protein (Fig. 4). [[FIGURE]] As a second approach for investigating subcellular localization, tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) Bright Yellow-2 (BY-2) cells, serving as a model plant cell system for studying protein localization (CITATION; CITATION), were transiently transformed with each of the four candidates linked at their N or C termini to GFP and examined by epifluorescence microscopy. The expressed C-terminal fusions of both maize proteins and both Arabidopsis proteins showed a fluorescence pattern that colocalized with that attributable to the endogenous mitochondrial inner membrane marker, the β-ATPase subunit (Fig. 5). Notably, the fusion proteins often yielded a torus-like fluorescence pattern that circled the more punctate fluorescence attributable to the β-ATPase (Fig. 5, highly magnified images), suggesting that they may localize to two distinct subdomains of the inner mitochondrial membrane, the inner boundary membrane and the cristae membrane (for review, see CITATION; CITATION). Thus, the toroid fluorescence pattern exhibited by the candidate fusion proteins in BY-2 cells resembles that of several yeast GFP-tagged proteins that preferentially localize to the inner boundary membrane, which lies parallel to the mitochondrial outer membrane (CITATION; CITATION). The punctate fluorescence pattern exhibited by endogenous β-ATPase in BY-2 cells, on the other hand, is consistent with the localization of its yeast counterpart in the cristae membrane, which extends into the matrix (CITATION). There are, however, other possible explanations for the concentration of GFP-tagged inner membrane proteins at the mitochondrial rim (CITATION), so this question needs to be studied in more detail. [[FIGURE]] Unlike the C-terminal fusions, the N-terminal GFP fusions for all four proteins localized only partially to mitochondria and mostly to the cytosol (data not shown), suggesting that the N-terminally appended GFP moiety interfered with the mitochondrial targeting information in the CoA carriers. Similar interference with mitochondrial targeting was observed for N-terminal fusions of GFP to thiamin diphosphate carriers (CITATION). Finally, there was no apparent targeting of either the C- or N-terminal GFP fusion protein to plastids or peroxisomes. Together, the results of dual-import assays and of cell imaging demonstrate the targeting of all four candidate proteins to plant mitochondria and not other organelles. The relative levels of the ZM161299 and ZM420119 mRNAs were determined by quantitative reverse transcription-PCR in 10 tissues representing the whole adult maize plant (Fig. 6). Both genes are expressed in all tissues tested, with fairly little variation (maximum of 4.2-fold). Their expression patterns are similar, except that the type 1 gene ZM420119 predominates in silks and the type 2 gene ZM161299 predominates in tassels. Analysis of expression data for both maize genes from genome-wide RNA-seq data sets gave a similar picture (Supplemental Fig. S5A). Publicly available microarray data for the Arabidopsis genes likewise show expression throughout the plant, with relatively little variation except in stamens and pollen, and with the type 1 gene At1g14560 always predominant (Supplemental Fig. S5B). The ubiquitous expression of both types of CoA carrier gene in both species is consistent with the universal requirement of mitochondria for CoA, which is essential, among other things, for the oxidation of pyruvate via the tricarboxylic acid cycle. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Sequences of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), human, and yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) MCF carriers were taken from CITATION. Maize (Zea mays) carrier sequences were from http://maizesequence.org/index.html; most other plant carrier sequences were from genomes at the National Center for Biotechnology Information, the Joint Genome Institute (http://www.jgi.doe.gov/), or the Amborella genome database (http://www.amborella.org/). Gymnosperm sequences were based on EST contigs at the Gene Index Project (http://compbio.dfci.harvard.edu/tgi/plant.html). Sequence alignments were made with ClustalW, and phylogenetic trees were constructed using MEGA5 (CITATION). Arabidopsis gene expression was analyzed at Botany Array Resource (http://bar.utoronto.ca/welcome.htm; CITATION); maize gene expression data were from qTeller (http://qteller.com/). All PCRs were performed using high-fidelity polymerase Phusion TAQ (New England Biolabs). Maize open reading frames GRMZM2G420119 and GRMZM2G161299 were amplified from the plasmids ZM_BFb0285D11 and ZM_BFb0063E21 obtained from the Arizona Genomics Institute. Arabidopsis open reading frames At1g14560 and At4g26180 were amplified from a leaf complementary DNA (cDNA) library. For complementation of the yeast leu5Δ strain, coding sequences were cloned in pYES2/CT (Invitrogen). For dual-import assays, the coding sequences were cloned into pGEM-4Z (Promega) with the addition of the Kozak sequence ACC just upstream of the start codon. The plasmids (CITATION) used for in vivo localization studies were pRTL2ΔNS/mGFP-MCS for N-terminal GFP fusions of candidate proteins and pUC18/NcoI-mGFP for C-terminal GFP fusions. The Kozak sequence AACA was added just upstream of the transporter sequence start codon for C-terminal GFP fusions to match that in the pRTL2ΔNS/mGFP-MCS plasmid. The primers used to build these constructs are listed in Supplemental Table S1. The leu5Δ deletant and the corresponding wild-type W303-1B strain were grown in rich (YP) medium, containing 1% (w/v) yeast extract, 2% (w/v) Bacto-peptone, supplemented with 3% (w/v) glycerol. The final pH was adjusted to 4.8 with HCl. Strains were transformed with pYES2/CT alone or pYES2/CT constructs, including positive (human SLC25A42) and negative (Arabidopsis AtNDT1 [CITATION] or human SLC25A33 [CITATION]) controls, as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). The leu5Δ strain transformed with recombinant pYES2/CT vectors was grown at 30°C to midlog phase in YP medium supplemented with 2% (v/v) ethanol. Mitochondria were isolated as described (CITATION) and extracted with phenol:chloroform (1:1, v/v) for mass spectrometric analysis of CoA. A Quattro Premier mass spectrometer interfaced with an Acquity ultra-performance liquid chromatography system (Waters) was used for liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analysis. Chromatographic resolution was achieved using an HSS T3 column (2.1 × 100 mm, 1.8-µm particle size; Waters). The flow rate was 0.3 mL min−1. The reaction monitoring transition selected in the positive ion mode for CoA was mass-to-charge ratio 768 > 261. Calibration curves were established using standards, processed under the same conditions as the samples, at five concentrations. The best fit was determined using regression analysis of analyte peak area. Dual-import assays with purified pea (Pisum sativum) mitochondria and chloroplasts were carried out as described (CITATION; CITATION). The soybean (Glycine max) alternative oxidase protein GmAox (CITATION) and the Arabidopsis YgfZ protein At1g60990 (CITATION) served as positive controls for mitochondrial and chloroplast import, respectively. Import times used in the reactions were 20 min for CoA transporter candidates and GmAox and 5 min for Arabidopsis YgfZ. Expression and microscopic analyses of GFP fusion proteins in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY-2 suspension-cultured cells were performed as described previously (CITATION), except that endogenous mitochondrial β-ATPase protein was immunostained using mouse anti-maize mitochondrial β-ATPase E monoclonal antibodies (CITATION; provided by T. Elthon) and goat anti-mouse Rhodamine Red-X IgGs (Jackson ImmunoResearch Laboratories). RNA preparations were a gift from J.-C. Guan (University of Florida). Maize (inbred B73) plants were grown at the University of Florida Citra research farm in spring 2010; samples were harvested at tassel emergence. cDNAs were synthesized with the SuperScript III First-Strand Synthesis System (Life Technologies) using oligo(dT)20 primer. Real-time PCR was performed using the MyiQ2 Real Time PCR Detection System (Bio-Rad) using iQ SYBR Green Supermix (Bio-Rad). Amplification parameters were 95°C for 10 min followed by 40 cycles of 95°C for 30 s, 60°C for 30 s, and 72°C for 30 s with fluorescence measurement, followed by the establishment of a melting curve. Data were analyzed with the Bio-Rad Expression Macro using the comparative cycle threshold method. Expression was normalized against three reference genes: FPGS (GRMZM2G393334 T01), CUL (GRMZM2G166694 T04), and UBCP (GRMZM2G102471 T01; CITATION; CITATION). Primers used are given in Supplemental Table S2. Primer concentrations were optimized for the lowest threshold cycle values, and amplification efficiency was determined. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers At1g14560:NP_172908; At4g26180:NP_194348; GRMZM2G420119:AFW83095; GRMZM2G161299:AFW71266; and Leu5p:NP_011865. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Alignment of candidate CoA transporters and yeast known CoA transporter. Supplemental Figure S2. Phylogenetic analysis of candidate CoA transporters from Arabidopsis (At1g14560, At4g26180) and maize (ZM420119, ZM161299), the known CoA transporters from yeast and human, and the complete set of MCF proteins from yeast or human. Supplemental Figure S3. Phylogenetic analysis of candidate plant CoA transporters and the known yeast and human CoA transporters. Supplemental Figure S4. Complementation of growth in liquid culture of the yeast CoA carrier deletant leu5Δ by expression of candidate plant CoA carriers. Supplemental Figure S5. Expression data for maize ZM420119 and ZM161299 and Arabidopsis At1g14560 and At4g26180 in various tissues. Supplemental Table S1. Primers used in this study. Supplemental Table S2. Quantitative reverse transcription primers used in this study.
