!~ABS~! Molecular, genetic, and electrophysiological evidence indicates that at least one of the plant Glu receptor-like molecules, GLR3.4, functions as an amino acid–gated Ca2+ channel at the plasma membrane. The aspect of plant physiology, growth, or development to which GLR3.4 contributes is an open question. Protein localization studies performed here provide important information. In roots, GLR3.4 and the related GLR3.2 protein were present primarily in the phloem, especially in the vicinity of the sieve plates. GLR3.3 was expressed in most cells of the growing primary root but was not enriched in the phloem, including the sieve plate area. GLR3.2 and GLR3.4 physically interacted with each other better than with themselves as evidenced by a biophotonic assay performed in human embryonic kidney cells and Nicotiana benthamiana leaf cells. GLR3.3 interacted poorly with itself or the other two GLRs. Mutations in GLR3.2, GLR3.4, or GLR3.2 and GLR3.4 caused the same and equally severe phenotype, namely, a large overproduction and aberrant placement of lateral root primordia. Loss of GLR3.3 did not affect lateral root primordia. These results support the hypothesis that apoplastic amino acids acting through heteromeric GLR3.2/GLR3.4 channels affect lateral root development via Ca2+ signaling in the phloem.
!~RES~! According to promoter strength and mRNA analyses, at least five of the seven genes comprising the clade to which GLR3.4 belongs are expressed at much higher levels in roots than shoots (CITATION; CITATION). This localization information was refined by visualizing the localizations of GLR3.2, GLR3.3, and GLR3.4 fused to GFP, each fusion being expressed in the respective glr knockout mutant and under the control of its native promoter. Confocal microscopy confirmed expression of GLR3.2, GLR3.3, and GLR3.4 protein in roots (Figures 1A to 1C). Despite the low fluorescence signal originating from the center of the root, specific expression patterns could be resolved. They compared very favorably with published tissue-specific transcriptome data. The Arabidopsis thaliana eFP browser tool (CITATION) indicated GLR3.4 mRNA to be 58-fold more abundant in the phloem than any other tissue or cell type in roots. A transcriptome analysis that distinguished different developmental stages of phloem showed GLR3.4 mRNA to be eightfold higher in the protophloem near the root apex than in mature phloem (CITATION). These mRNA patterns closely matched the GLR3.4 protein patterns visualized by confocal microscopy (phloem enrichment and peak expression near the root apex in the protoderm or protophloem). The images shown were difficult to obtain because signal intensity was not high (Ca2+ channels regulating cytoplasmic signals in the micromolar range are not expected to be abundant proteins) and because the majority of expression was restricted to one tissue comprising a minor fraction of the deepest region of the root. Nonetheless, the live-cell visualization results contained an additional, potentially important result. Special concentrations occurred in spots spaced ∼100 µm apart along the mature phloem cell files, readily apparent in the GLR3.4 example shown (Figure 1E). When hand-cut root cross sections contained these special locations of high signal intensity, the spots were observed at positions consistent with phloem (insets in Figures 1A and 1B), and they overlapped with locales of aniline blue staining (Figure 1E, inset), considered diagnostic of the callose that accumulates at specialized cell–cell contact points in sieve tube members known as sieve plates (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] The next clue about GLR3.4 function in roots came from a machine-learning analysis of transcriptome patterns. GLR3.4 was among the genes predicted to play a role in lateral root initiation (CITATION). Microscopy inspection of glr3.4 mutants showed they produced twice as many lateral root primordia as the wild type, though the number of emerged lateral roots, and therefore the overt root system architecture, was not affected (Figure 2A). The GFP-tagged GLR3.4 used to visualize the expression pattern rescued this phenotype (Figure 3). The related GLR3.2 gene was included in the same transcript behavior cluster as GLR3.4 (CITATION). The Arabidopsis eFP browser tool showed GLR3.2 mRNA to be 418-fold more abundant in the phloem of roots than in the adjacent tissues and cell types and 20-fold enriched in the protophloem compared with mature phloem (CITATION; CITATION), again consistent with the observed protein localization (Figure 1A). Like GLR3.4, GLR3.2 accumulated at sieve plates (Figure 1D). In agreement with this correlated expression, glr3.2 mutants also hyperproduced lateral root primordia (Figures 2 and 3). The related GLR3.3 should be expressed generally in the root apex according to the CITATION expression atlas. Indeed, the protein was evident in all cell types of the growth zone (Figure 1C), consistent with the root gravitropism phenotype determined by computational image analysis (CITATION). GLR3.3 displayed some tendency to accumulate in the phloem in the mature region of the root but it did not accumulate at sieve plates (Figure 1F), and it was not predicted to play a role in lateral root initiation on the basis of its spatiotemporal mRNA patterns (CITATION). Accordingly, two independent glr3.3 alleles did not differ from the wild type with respect to production of lateral root primordia (Figure 3). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Each primordium and lateral root counted in Figure 3 was also classified as early (stages ii to iv), late (stages v to vii), emerged, or elongated. The results presented in Table 1 show that the glr3.2 and glr3.4 phenotypes were due mostly to extra (∼1.7-fold more) early-stage root primordia, but the higher rate of initiation was offset by a higher rate of subsequent arrest. In addition, glr3.2 and glr3.4 mutations affected primordium positioning. The wild type typically initiated successive primordia on alternate sides of the root but the mutants typically did not. The location of each detected primordium was mapped onto a macroscopic image of the same root as shown by the black arrowheads in Figure 2A. White arrowheads indicate emerged lateral roots that are not visible in the macroscopic image. This display method shows the much higher density of lateral root primordia in representative single and double mutant roots relative to the wild type as well as the high incidence of successive primordia produced on the same side of the root. Light micrographs show wild-type and mutant primordia to be anatomically similar (Figures 2B and 2C). Also shown is an example of successive primordia located on the same side of a glr3.4 root (Figure 2C). The strong similarities in GLR3.2 and GLR3.4 localization patterns, and their similar knockout phenotypes, raised the possibility that these two receptors could function together, possibly as subunits of the same tetrameric channel. If so, the double mutant phenotype would be expected to display a phenotype similar to either single mutant rather than an additive defect. Microscopy inspection of glr3.2 glr3.4 double mutants produced data in support of this GLR3.2/GLR3.4 heteromeric hypothesis. The double mutant hyperproduced lateral root primordia indistinguishably from the glr3.2 and glr3.4 single mutants (Figures 2 and 3). Loss of one subunit from the presumed heterotetramer produced the same phenotype as loss of the other; loss of both was no worse. These genetic results are consistent with GLR3.2 and GLR3.4 subunits forming a heteromeric channel in the phloem that functions in the production of lateral root primordia. A phenomenon known as Förster resonance energy transfer (FRET) can occur between excited cyan fluorescent protein (CFP; donor) and yellow fluorescent protein (YFP; acceptor) if the two are not more than 10 nm apart, a distance consistent with a physical interaction (CITATION; CITATION). CFP or YFP was fused to the C terminus of GLR3.2, GLR3.3, or GLR3.4 and then expressed in HEK cells, where fluorescence was observed at the cell periphery with a confocal laser scanning microscope (Figure 4). To test for FRET between one GLR fused to CFP and the same or a different GLR fused to YFP, fluorescence from the donor within a region of interest including the plasma membrane was measured before and after photobleaching of the acceptor in coexpressing cells (Figure 5A). The relative increase in CFP fluorescence after photobleaching was quantified to determine the FRET efficiency values shown in Figure 5C. FRET did not occur between free CFP and free YFP, as expected. Substantial amounts of FRET occurred between identical GLRs, as expected at least for GLR3.4 given the previously published evidence of channel activity from GLR3.4 homomers (CITATION). GLR3.3 showed very little or no FRET with GLR3.2 or GLR3.4. By contrast, FRET efficiency between GLR3.2 and GLR3.4 was high, ∼25%, similar to that observed between aquaporin subunits that interact to form water channels (CITATION). The GLR3.2/GLR3.4 signal was greater than either homomeric signal to a degree that is highly significant (P < 0.001), indicating a preference for heteromerization. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Transient expression of GLR3.2 and GLR3.4 in tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) leaf cells produced essentially the same degree of FRET as observed in HEK cells (Figures 5B and 5C), greatly reducing concerns about physiological relevance that sometimes accompany results obtained with heterologous systems. The fact that two subunits displaying a high FRET efficiency (Figure 5C) show a similar subcellular localization pattern in phloem (Figure 1), along with their equivalent and nonadditive mutant phenotypes, leads to the conclusion that GLR3.2 and GLR3.4 are components of heteromeric amino acid–gated channels in the phloem. Patch clamp electrophysiology assays for GLR3.2 channel function in transfected HEK cells did not produce positive results. GLR3.2 homomers may not form functional channels in the HEK cell due to the lack of some important factor, or the amino acids tested (Asn and Gly) are not effective agonists for GLR3.2. Lack of information about homomeric GLR3.2 channel activity left open the question of what activity to expect from GLR3.2/GLR3.4 heteromeric channels predicted to form, based on the FRET results in Figure 5, when coexpressed in HEK cells. Current voltage (I-V) analysis of Asn-gated currents in GLR3.2/GLR3.4-coexpressing cells were performed with the patch clamp technique (Figure 6) as previously described (CITATION). The expectation was that any such currents would reflect the activity of GLR3.2/GLR3.4 heteromers because the FRET studies and genetics indicated that these two subunits interacted. The slopes of the difference I-V curves and their zero-current voltages (reversal potentials), which indicate large selectivity for Ca2+ of the Asn-gated current, were essentially the same as those previously obtained for GLR3.4 alone (Figure 6). The small differences between the two curves could be due to different levels of expression; heteromerization with GLR3.2 did not have a large effect on the Asn-induced activity of GLR3.4 in these conditions. However, differences in properties not yet tested, such as a comprehensive agonist profile or kinetic properties, remain possible. Another possible explanation of why coexpressing GLR3.2 with GLR3.4 did not create a substantially new activity is that the only functional channels produced in the coexpressing cells were GLR3.4 homomers formed from subunits that failed to partner with GLR3.2 subunits. [[FIGURE]] An interesting possibility not supported by the coexpression experiment is that the phenomenon of GLR desensitization so apparent in planta (CITATION) but apparently absent in GLR3.4-expressing HEK cells is an emergent property of native heteromers. Asn-activated GLR3.2/GLR3.4 currents were sustained, maintaining steady state during agonist presentation as in cells expressing only GLR3.4. Otherwise, the analysis shown in Figure 6 would not have been possible because the currents in Figure 6 are the difference between steady state currents recorded before and after Asn. Some factor in the plant is apparently required for desensitization, possibly a third GLR to join GLR3.2 and GLR3.4 in the tetramer.
!~MM~! Seeds of Arabidopsis thaliana were surface sterilized and sown on Petri plates containing B5 medium diluted 50-fold and supplemented with 0.5% Suc (w/v) and 23 mM MES, adjusted to pH 5.7 with NaOH, and gelled with 1% agarose. The plates with seeds were maintained at 4°C for 2 to 4 d before being placed vertically in a growth chamber under constant light. After 4 d of growth, seedlings were transferred to 150 × 15-mm Petri plates containing the same medium and spaced such that their lateral roots would not overlap during an additional 8 d of growth under constant light. The primordia measurements were performed on the resulting 12-d-old plants as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). Full-length GLR3.2, GLR3.3, and GLR3.4 cDNA was isolated from total RNA by RT-PCR as previously described (CITATION) and amplified using AccuPrime Pfx DNA polymerase (Invitrogen) using the following amplification primers: GLR3.2, forward, 5′-CACCATGTTTTGGGTTTTGGTTCTGTTGAGC-3′, and reverse, 5′-TATTGGTCTAGAAGGCTTTAAAGAAAGATCATCG-3′; GLR3.3, forward, 5′-CACCATGAAGCAACTCTGGACTTTCTTC-3′, and reverse, 5′-GTCTAATGGATTTACCGAATTGAAGCTTC-3′; GLR3.4, forward, 5′-CACCATGGGATTTTTGGTGATGATAAGAGAAGTTTC-3′, and reverse, 5′-AGTAATTTCGCCATGTTGTGATTG-3′. The Gateway directional cloning modification (CACC) in italics was added at the 5′ end of the forward primers. The resulting PCR fragment was cloned into the pENTR-D entry vector (Invitrogen). For FRET experiments in Nicotiana benthamiana, the pENTR-D vectors containing GLR3.2 and GLR3.4 cDNA were shuttled into the Gateway destination vectors pEARLEYGATE 101(CFP) and pEARLEYGATE 102(YFP), which fuse the indicated fluorescent tag to the C terminus of the translated gene product (CITATION) to generate Pro35S:GLR3.2-YFP and Pro35S:GLR3.4-CFP constructs. To generate the GLR native promoter constructs for plant expression, the GLR3.2, GLR3.3, and GLR3.4 full-length cDNAs in the respective pENTR-D entry vectors were shuttled into the modified pEARLEYGATE 102 plant expression vector in which the 35S promoter was replaced with the genomic DNA sequence upstream from the transcriptional start site (native promoter) of GLR (2006 bp for GLR3.2, 3500 bp for GLR3.3, and 1902 bp for GL3.4). The fluorescent CFP fragment was replaced with enhanced GFP for enhanced fluorescence to produce the respective ProGLR3.2:GLR3.2-EGFP, ProGLR3.3:GLR3.3-EGFP, and ProGLR3.4:GLR3.4-EGFP constructs. The tobacco leaf infiltration method was used to transiently express the Pro35S:GLR3.2-YFP and Pro35S:GLR3.4-CFP constructs (CITATION). The floral dip method (CITATION) was used to transform the null mutant background lines with these constructs. To generate GLR receptor subunits fused to either CFP or YFP, the pENTR-D vectors described above containing the respective full-length GLR3.2, GLR3.3, or GLR3.4 cDNAs were shuttled into the pDS_EF1-XB-CFP and pDS_EF1-XB-YFP mammalian expression vectors from American Type Culture Collection using the Gateway recombination reaction (Invitrogen) to generate a library of vectors that C-terminally tag the translated GLR3.2, GLR3.3, and GLR3.4 receptor subunits with either CFP or YFP (see Supplemental Table 1 online). All constructs were confirmed by DNA sequencing. HEK293T cells from the American Type Culture Collection were cultured in Dulbecco’s modified Eagle’s medium-GlutaMAX (Invitrogen) with 10% fetal bovine serum, 100 IU mL−1 penicillin, and 100 µg mL−1 streptomycin in a 37°C incubator with 95% air and 5% CO2. Trypsin-treated HEK293T cells (5 × 105 cells per well) were plated into six-well tissue culture plates containing collagen-coated glass cover slips 8 to 12 h before being transfected with 1 µg of the indicated plasmid DNA using FuGENE 6 transfection reagent (Roche Scientific) following the manufacturer’s protocol. In the case of cotransfections, a plasmid ratio of 1:1 (0.5 µg + 0.5 µg) was used. Vectors employed are listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. All experiments were performed 12 to 48 h after transfection and imaged live at room temperature in Hank’s balanced buffer solution without phenol (Invitrogen). A Zeiss LSM 510 Meta confocal imaging system with a 30-mW argon laser and a ×63 1.4–numerical aperture oil immersion Plan-Apochromat objective was used to visualize live HEK392T cells or N. benthamiana epidermal cells coexpressing subunit pairs consisting of GLR3.2, GLR3.3, or GLR 3.4 C-terminally tagged with CFP or YFP as indicated in Figure 5. FRET was measured by acceptor photobleaching (CITATION), with the following modifications. Prebleach CFP and YFP images were collected simultaneously following excitation at 458 nm (11% laser intensity). A selected region of interest was irradiated with the 514-nm laser line (100% intensity) using a 458-nm/514-nm dual dichroic mirror for 5 to 10 s to photobleach YFP. Postbleach CFP and YFP images were collected simultaneously immediately following photobleaching. CFP and YFP fluorescence were separated using online fingerprinting and linear unmixing with the Zeiss Meta detector and Zeiss Aim Software, as previously described (CITATION). FRET was measured as an increase in CFP fluorescence intensity following YFP photobleaching. FRET efficiency was calculated as 100× [(CFP postbleach – CFP prebleach)/CFP postbleach]. The FRET ratios at all the pixels in a region of interest within the cell were averaged to quantify the interactions of the GLR receptor subunits. Whole-cell patch clamping and current voltage analysis was performed as previously described. Briefly, HEK293T cells were transfected with both GLR3.2-CFP and GLR3.4-YFP constructs. Cells expressing both constructs were selected on an Olympus BX51Wi upright fixed-stage fluorescence microscope equipped with a ×40 dipping lens with an emission filter setup that allows simultaneous separation and imaging of CFP and YFP fluorescence. Whole-cell patch clamp and current voltage analysis protocol was essentially the same as described by CITATION, including both bath and pipette solutions, except the bath solution contained 1 mM CaCl2 instead of 2 mM CaCl2. The methods for analyzing the steady state currents before and after ligand to generate the difference I-V curve shown in Figure 6 were exactly as described by CITATION. The Zeiss 510 confocal laser scanning microscope was used to visualize GLR3.4-EGFP in roots stained with propidium iodide (50 µg mL−1) for 5 min. Optics employed were a plan-Apochromat ×20 lens or a C-Apochromat ×40 water immersion lens. The samples were excited with the 488-nm laser line (11% power), and channel mode detection was used to record the emission of enhanced GFP (500 to 530 nm) and propidium iodide (560 nm). For sieve plate imaging, root tissue was stripped of epidermal and cortical layers with fine tweezers to expose the central stele region and stained with aniline blue (0.1% [w/v]) for 5 min and visualized by epifluorescence microscopy using a short-wavelength emission filter set (330- to 385-nm excitation; 420-nm emission) or enhanced GFP (470- to 490-nm excitation; 515-nm emission). To count and map lateral root primordia, plants grown as described above were first digitally imaged with an Epson Perfection V700 scanner at 1200-dpi resolution to obtain a macroscopic image. Plants were then water mounted on a glass slide with cover slip for examination at ×20 using an Olympus BX60 microscope equipped with Nomarksi optics. Primordia were mapped to the macroscopy image of the same plant, which was annotated using Photoshop CS4 (Adobe). For high-magnification primordia imaging, plants were fixed and cleared before mounting as previously described (CITATION). The T-DNA insertion lines used in this study were used to generate the double glr mutants; glr3.2-1 was crossed with glr3.4-1, and glr3.2-2 was crossed with glr3.4-2 by cross pollination. The glr3.2-1/glr3.4-1 and glr3.2-2/glr3.4-2 double knockout T-DNA insertion lines were identified in the F2 generation and verified by PCR genotyping (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Primers for genotyping all alleles in this study are presented in Supplemental Table 1 online. Electrophysiology experiments with mutant plants gave evidence that the glr3.3 and glr3.4 mutant alleles used here lacked detectable function (CITATION; CITATION). For this study it was particularly important to assess the mRNA levels in the previously unstudied glr3.2 alleles and the glr3.4 alleles with which they were combined in the genetic analyses. Total RNA was isolated from the roots of 7-d-old glr3.2-1, glr3.2-2, glr3.4-1, glr3.4-2, and wild-type seedlings and then treated with DNase as previously described (CITATION). Five hundred nanograms of total RNA from the indicated preparations was resolved by electrophoresis on an ethidium bromide agarose gel to verify RNA integrity (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). Reverse transcriptase reactions employing 4 μg of total RNA and random hexamer primers produced cDNA that was subsequently amplified with AccuPrime high fidelity Taq DNA Polymerase (Invitrogen) using the gene-specific primer sets listed in Supplemental Table 2 online. The results in Supplemental Figure 2 online show that the glr3.2 and glr3.4 alleles do not contain detectable mRNA for the disrupted genes and may be considered nulls. The Arabidopsis Genome Initiative locus identifiers for genes described in this article are as follows: At4g35290, GLR3.2, formerly known as At-GluR2 (CITATION); At1g42540 (GLR3.3); and At1g05200, GLR3.4, formerly known as At-GLR4 (CITATION). T-DNA insertion lines glr3.2-1 (SALK_150710), glr3.2-2 (SALK_125952), glr3.3-1 (Salk_040458), glr3.3-2 (Salk_066009), glr3.4-1 (Salk_079842), and glr3.4-2 (Salk_016904) were obtained from the Salk Institute (http://signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/tdnaexpress). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Identification of Homozygous glr3.2, glr3.4, and glr3.2 glr3.4 Plants by PCR-Based Genotyping. Supplemental Figure 2. Analysis of GLR3.2 and GLR3.4 Expression in Respective Mutant Alleles. Supplemental Table 1. Plant and Mammalian Expression Vectors Used in This Study. Supplemental Table 2. Primers Used for Genotyping and Expression Analysis.
