!~ABS~! Light significantly inhibits hypocotyl cell elongation, and dark-grown seedlings exhibit elongated, etiolated hypocotyls. Microtubule regulatory proteins function as positive or negative regulators that mediate hypocotyl cell elongation by altering microtubule organization. However, it remains unclear how plants coordinate these regulators to promote hypocotyl growth in darkness and inhibit growth in the light. Here, we demonstrate that WAVE-DAMPENED 2–LIKE3 (WDL3), a microtubule regulatory protein of the WVD2/WDL family from Arabidopsis thaliana, functions in hypocotyl cell elongation and is regulated by a ubiquitin-26S proteasome–dependent pathway in response to light. WDL3 RNA interference Arabidopsis seedlings grown in the light had much longer hypocotyls than controls. Moreover, WDL3 overexpression resulted in overall shortening of hypocotyl cells and stabilization of cortical microtubules in the light. Cortical microtubule reorganization occurred slowly in cells from WDL3 RNA interference transgenic lines but was accelerated in cells from WDL3-overexpressing seedlings subjected to light treatment. More importantly, WDL3 protein was abundant in the light but was degraded through the 26S proteasome pathway in the dark. Overexpression of WDL3 inhibited etiolated hypocotyl growth in regulatory particle non-ATPase subunit-1a mutant (rpn1a-4) plants but not in wild-type seedlings. Therefore, a ubiquitin-26S proteasome–dependent mechanism regulates the levels of WDL3 in response to light to modulate hypocotyl cell elongation.
!~RES~! There are seven WVD2-like genes in the Arabidopsis genome, from WDL1 to WDL7 (CITATION). WDL3 expression is significantly altered in brassinosteroid phytohormone mutants based on published microarray data (CITATION), suggesting a potential role of WDL3 in cell elongation. To analyze the function of WDL3 in Arabidopsis, WDL3 loss-of-function and WDL3–green fluorescent protein (GFP)–overexpressing seedlings were generated. Since knockdown or knockout T-DNA insertion lines of WDL3 are unavailable, we generated RNA interference (RNAi) lines to analyze the function of WDL3 in Arabidopsis. Of the fifty-five WDL3 RNAi transgenic lines that were obtained, 38 had longer hypocotyls after growth in the light. In addition, of 34 WDL3-GFP–overexpressing lines obtained, 20 exhibited shorter hypocotyls after growth in the light. Line 2 of the WDL3 RNAi transgenic lines and line 7 of the WDL3-GFP transgenic lines, which exhibited typical phenotypes, were selected for further analysis. The level of WDL3 transcription was considerably enhanced in the overexpressing line and was dramatically reduced in the RNAi line (Figure 1A). In addition, the transgenic seedlings of plants carrying WDL3 without the GFP tag and WDL3-GFP exhibited similar phenotypes (see Supplemental Figures 1A to 1C online), demonstrating that the GFP tag did not interfere with WDL3 function. [[FIGURE]] Observation of 1-week-old seedlings from the WDL3-overexpressing line revealed that the hypocotyl length was considerably reduced. By contrast, the hypocotyls were much longer in the WDL3 RNAi Arabidopsis than in wild-type plants when the seedlings were grown in the light (Figure 1B). Statistical analysis using paired Student’s t tests indicated that these differences in hypocotyl length were significant (Figure 1C). Scanning electronic microscopy revealed no major differences in the cell profiles of the hypocotyls among the wild-type, WDL3-overexpressing, and WDL3 RNAi seedlings (Figure 1D). The cell numbers in individual hypocotyl-epidermal cell files in the different seedlings were similar (∼20 to 22). The average widths of hypocotyl epidermal cells in wild-type, WDL3-overexpressing, and WDL3 RNAi seedlings were 27.88 ± 5.13 μm, 28.39 ± 4.92 μm, and 31.66 ± 5.71 μm, respectively (n > 500). Statistical analysis using the paired Student’s t test indicated that this difference was not significant. However, the length of hypocotyl cells was decreased in WDL3-overexpressing seedlings and significantly increased in WDL3 RNAi Arabidopsis, particularly in the middle region (Figure 1E), suggesting that WDL3 is involved in hypocotyl cell elongation. We also measured the elongation rates of hypocotyls at different times and positions along hypocotyls from plants grown in the light. There was little growth of hypocotyl cells in the wild-type (Figure 1F; CITATION), WDL3-overexpressing, and WDL3 RNAi Arabidopsis at days 2 and 3, but the cells were greatly elongated by day 4, especially in the middle region. In comparison to wild-type plants, the length of WDL3 RNAi hypocotyl cells was significantly increased, and the length of WDL3-overexpressing hypocotyl cells was relatively decreased at days 4 and 5 (Figure 1F). These results suggest that WDL3 plays a role in light-inhibited hypocotyl elongation. To confirm that the hypocotyl phenotype in the WDL3 RNAi line was linked to WDL3 expression levels, we randomly selected four additional RNAi lines for RT-PCR analysis. These results showed that the WDL3 expression levels corresponded with the long-hypocotyl phenotype of plants grown in the light (see Supplemental Figures 2A to 2C online). Additionally, a second WDL3 RNAi (RNAi-1) construct using another WDL3 cDNA sequence was generated. Seventeen WDL3 RNAi-1 lines exhibited a longer hypocotyl phenotype, and three independent WDL3 RNAi-1 lines were selected for further analyses. These results showed that the transcription levels of WDL3 were dramatically reduced, and the hypocotyl length in 7-d-old light-grown seedlings from the WDL3 RNAi-1 lines was much longer (see Supplemental Figures 3A to 3C online). These results confirm that the longer hypocotyl phenotype of WDL3 RNAi lines grown in the light is dependent upon the expression level of WDL3. Because WDL3 belongs to the WVD2/WDL family in Arabidopsis, we detected expression of other genes in WDL3 RNAi and RNAi-1 lines. Quantitative real-time PCR analysis showed that WVD2, WDL1, WDL2, WDL4, WDL5, WDL6, and WDL7 expression in the WDL3 RNAi and RNAi-1 lines was similar to the wildtype (see Supplemental Figure 4 online), demonstrating that decreased WDL3 expression did not affect transcription levels of other genes in the WVD2/WDL family. Together, those results demonstrate that WDL3 plays a negative regulatory role in hypocotyl cell elongation in the light. Because WDL3 belongs to the microtubule regulatory protein WVD2/WDL family (CITATION; CITATION), we tested whether increasing or decreasing WDL3 expression affected the organization of cortical microtubules in hypocotyl cells. Because the transverse, oblique, and longitudinal orientation patterns of cortical microtubules are related to the elongation rate of hypocotyl epidermal cells, hypocotyls are frequently used to explore the mechanisms that underlie cell elongation and cortical microtubule organization (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, we analyzed cortical microtubules in epidermal cells from the hypocotyl middle region of wild-type, WDL3-overexpressing, and WDL3 RNAi Arabidopsis seedlings carrying tubulin tagged with GFP. Cells were examined at days 4 and 5 of exposure to light. The parallel arrays of cortical microtubules were generally transversely and obliquely oriented relative to the longitudinal hypocotyl growth axis in epidermal cells from wild-type hypocotyls (Figures 2A and 2D). In comparison, random, oblique, or longitudinal cortical microtubules were observed in most of the WDL3-overexpressing hypocotyl cells, while dominantly transverse cortical microtubule arrays were detected in the WDL3 RNAi Arabidopsis cells at day 4 (Figures 2B to 2D). Cortical microtubules were mostly oriented in a longitudinal manner in the wild-type and WDL3-overexpressing hypocotyl cells at day 5 (Figures 2E, 2F, and 2H), while oblique and transverse cortical microtubules were observed in most of the WDL3 RNAi Arabidopsis at day 5 (Figures 2G and 2H). The altered microtubule arrays observed in WDL3 RNAi seedlings were consistent with the significant increase in hypocotyl cell elongation caused by reduced expression of WDL3. [[FIGURE]] In order to further characterize the effect of WDL3 on cortical microtubules, the microtubule-disrupting drug oryzalin was applied to epidermal hypocotyl cells from wild-type, WDL3-overexpressing, and WDL3 RNAi seedlings. To quantify the effect of oryzalin on the stability of cortical microtubules, we estimated the density of cortical microtubules in hypocotyl epidermal cells. A paired Student’s t test was used to identify significant differences. Our results revealed that cortical microtubules were similar in density before oryzalin treatment in the epidermal cells of wild-type, WDL3-overexpressing, and WDL3 RNAi seedlings (Figure 3A). However, the number of cortical microtubules in epidermal cells of wild-type, WDL3-overexpressing, and WDL3 RNAi seedlings was significantly different after drug treatment (Figure 3F). Microtubules were disrupted in epidermal cells from the WDL3 RNAi line after treatment with 5 μM oryzalin for 5 min (Figures 3B and 3F), whereas microtubules in wild-type and WDL3-overexpressing cells were largely unaffected. Increases in the concentration and duration of oryzalin treatment resulted in disruption of the majority of cortical microtubules in both wild-type and WDL3 RNAi Arabidopsis cells. However, cortical microtubules remained relatively unaffected in WDL3-overexpressing cells at doses of up to 10 µM oryzalin (Figures 3C, 3D, and 3F). In addition, although cortical microtubules mostly recovered in cells from wild-type and WDL3-overexpressing Arabidopsis hypocotyls after oryzalin washout, many cortical microtubules remained disrupted in cells from WDL3 RNAi Arabidopsis hypocotyls (Figures 3E and 3F). Thus, microtubules were more sensitive to oryzalin treatment in WDL3 RNAi cells and less sensitive when expression of WDL3 was increased. These results confirm that WDL3 functions as a microtubule stabilizer. Microtubule dynamics were analyzed using confocal time-lapse imaging. Microtubules with clearly visible leading plus ends (identified by growth rates) were selected for measurement in wild-type, WDL3-overexpressing, and WDL3 RNAi cells (see Supplemental Table 1 online). The results show that microtubule dynamics were altered in WDL3-overexpressing and RNAi hypocotyl epidermal cells. The catastrophe frequency (frequency of transitions from growth or pause to shortening) of individual microtubules was significantly lower in WDL3-overexpressing cells (0.006 s−1 for catastrophe) and higher in WDL3 RNAi cells (0.042 s−1 for catastrophe) compared with wild-type cells (0.027 s−1 for catastrophe), suggesting that individual microtubules are more prone to growth when expression of WDL3 is increased but are more likely to shrink in the absence of WDL3. [[FIGURE]] Unlike plants grown in the light, the lengths of etiolated hypocotyls from wild-type, WDL3-overexpressing, and WDL3 RNAi seedlings were not obviously different (see Supplemental Figures 5A and 5B online), suggesting that WDL3 function is inhibited in the dark. To better understand this phenomenon, levels of the WDL3 transcript were assessed to determine whether WDL3 was expressed in the absence of light. A construct was made in which the β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene was placed under control of the ∼1.7-kb WDL3 promoter. This construct (PWDL3:GUS) was introduced into wild-type plants using Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated transformation. Thirty-seven independent transgenic lines were stained for GUS activity. GUS staining revealed that WDL3 was expressed in a majority of the tissues and organs of Arabidopsis (see Supplemental Figures 6A to 6H online), including the hypocotyls of seedlings grown in the light or in the dark (Figure 4A). To verify this result, RNA was purified from the hypocotyls of light- and dark-grown wild-type seedlings. RT-PCR revealed that the WDL3 transcript was abundant in both light-grown and etiolated hypocotyls (Figure 4B), demonstrating that transcription of WDL3 does not appear to be regulated by the presence or absence of light. Next, WDL3 protein levels were analyzed using WDL3-GFP transgenic seedlings. Confocal microscopy showed that WDL3-GFP filaments were clearly detected in the hypocotyl epidermal cells of light-grown seedlings but not in etiolated hypocotyl epidermal cells of WDL3-GFP transgenic lines (Figure 4C). Protein gel blots using an anti-GFP antibody confirmed this result (Figure 4D), demonstrating that WDL3-GFP levels were more abundant in the light and less abundant in the dark. [[FIGURE]] To analyze the potential molecular mechanism of WDL3 degradation in the dark, seedlings were treated with MG132 and MG115, two 26S proteasome inhibitors (CITATION; CITATION). Confocal microscopy revealed that WDL3-GFP fluorescence was recovered in etiolated hypocotyls from WDL3-GFP transgenic seedlings treated with MG132 and MG115 (Figures 5A to 5C). By contrast, mock treatment with ethanol (Figure 5D) or with other general protease inhibitors (leupeptin and phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride) had little or no effect on the degradation of WDL3-GFP (Figures 5E and 5F). Thus, the degradation of WDL3 is prevented by treatment with proteasome-specific inhibitors, suggesting that the proteasome is largely responsible for the degradation of WDL3 in the absence of light. [[FIGURE]] Next, we examined WDL3 protein levels during dark–light transitions. WDL3-GFP transgenic seedlings were grown in darkness for 6 d and then transferred to continuous light for 4, 8, 12, 16, 20, and 24 h. Protein gel blots of protein extracts from these seedlings revealed that the abundance of WDL3 was significantly increased after 4 h and 8 h of light. Seedlings grown in continuous light were included as a positive control, and the WDL3 levels in these plants were significantly higher than that of plants subjected to the dark (Figure 5G). Treatment with cycloheximide, an inhibitor of cytoplasmic protein synthesis, was then used to determine whether protein degradation or protein synthesis represents the key regulatory step that modulates differential abundance of WDL3 in light and darkness. Six-day-old WDL3-GFP transgenic seedlings grown in continuous light were transferred to darkness and cultured in the presence of 200 μM cycloheximide. The cultures were then treated in darkness for 0, 12, and 24 h, and the levels of WDL3-GFP were measured. Samples maintained in the light served as controls. In the absence of cycloheximide, the amount of WDL3 was decreased when seedlings were transferred to darkness. The amount of WDL3 decreased within 24 h under both light and dark conditions in the presence of cycloheximide; however, the rate of decrease was significantly greater at 12 h after transfer to darkness (Figure 5H). Because cycloheximide effectively blocks new protein synthesis, the reduced levels of WDL3 must therefore be due to the degradation of preexisting protein. Together, these results suggest that WDL3 is degraded by a 26S proteasome–dependent pathway in the absence of light. Because our pharmacological results suggested that degradation of the WDL3 protein was mediated by the 26S proteasome, we next tested whether overexpression of WDL3 could inhibit etiolated hypocotyl growth in a 26S proteasome mutant background. The RPN1 protein, encoded by RPN1a, is a non-ATPase subunit of the regulatory particles of the 26S proteasome complex in Arabidopsis and plays a crucial role in the functioning of the 26S proteasome (CITATION). Therefore, we crossed the WDL3-GFP transgenic plant with rpn1a-4, a null mutant of RPN1a (CITATION). Fifteen resulting WDL3-GFP;rpn1a-4 lines exhibited a shorter etiolated hypocotyl phenotype, and line 2, which exhibited the typical phenotype, was selected for further analyses. Confocal images revealed that WDL3-GFP was present in filamentous structures in etiolated hypocotyl epidermal cells from homozygous WDL3-GFP;rpn1a-4 mutant seedlings but not WDL3 transgenic wild-type seedlings (Figures 6A and 6B). These filamentous structures containing WDL3-GFP could be disrupted by treatment with oryzalin (Figure 6C) and recovered after oryzalin washout (Figure 6D), demonstrating that WDL3 is also capable of binding cortical microtubules in the dark. Observation of 5-d-old etiolated seedlings from rpn1a-4 and WDL3-GFP;rpn1a-4 lines revealed that overexpression of WDL3-GFP substantially decreased the etiolated hypocotyl length of the rpn1a-4 mutant (Figure 6E). Scanning electronic microscopy revealed no major differences in the cell profiles of hypocotyls between rpn1a-4 and WDL3-GFP;rpn1a-4 seedlings (Figure 6F). The cell numbers in individual hypocotyl-epidermal cell files in different seedlings were similar (∼20 to 22). The average widths of hypocotyl epidermal cells in rpn1a-4 and WDL3-GFP;rpn1a-4 seedlings were 21.48 ± 3.52 μm and 22.31 ± 3.81 μm (n > 300), respectively. Statistical analysis using paired Student’s t test indicated that this difference was not significant. However, the length of hypocotyl cells was significantly decreased in WDL3-GFP transgenic rpn1a-4 mutants (Figure 6G), which is consistent with a negative role of WDL3 in hypocotyl cell elongation. [[FIGURE]] Since light induces cortical microtubule reorganization from transverse arrays into oblique and longitudinal patterns in hypocotyl cells after exposure of etiolated plants to light (CITATION; CITATION), we investigated the effects of WDL3 on this transition in elongating epidermal cells. Wild-type, WDL3-overexpressing, and WDL3 RNAi seedlings were grown for 3 d in the dark on half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium, followed by exposure to white light for 0, 30, or 60 min. First, we assessed WDL3-GFP protein levels after transfer from darkness to light. Protein gel blots showed that WDL3-GFP levels were greatly increased after treatment with light for 30 and 60 min (Figure 7A). Confocal microscopy revealed that, after 3 d of growth in the dark, parallel arrays of cortical microtubules were transversely oriented relative to the hypocotyl growth axis in epidermal cells from the etiolated hypocotyl upper regions from wild-type, WDL3-overexpressing, and WDL3 RNAi seedlings (Figures 7B, 7E, 7H, and 7K). After treatment with light for 30 min, transverse and oblique cortical microtubule arrays were dominantly observed in hypocotyl cells of the wild-type and WDL3 RNAi seedlings (Figures 7C, 7I, and 7K) but not in the WDL3-overexpressing Arabidopsis cells. The overexpressing cells predominately exhibited longitudinal microtubule arrays (Figures 7F and 7K). Increasing the duration of treatment induced the formation of longitudinal cortical microtubule arrays in the wild-type and WDL3-overexpressing cells (Figures 7D, 7G, and 7K) but not in the WDL3 RNAi line (Figures 7J and 7K). These results indicate that cortical microtubule reorganization was hindered in WDL3 RNAi cells but accelerated in WDL3-overexpressing cells in response to light treatment, demonstrating that WDL3 is necessary for light-regulated cortical microtubule reorganization. [[FIGURE]] Given that WDL3 is required for cortical microtubule stability in hypocotyls and normal hypocotyl cell elongation, we investigated the molecular basis for WDL3 regulation of microtubules in vitro. We cloned the full-length CODING SEQUENCE(CDS) into the pGEX-4T vector and transformed the plasmid into Escherichia coli. The resulting glutathione S-transferase (GST)–tagged WDL3 fusion protein was then purified using a glutathione sepharose 4B resin column. SDS-PAGE revealed that GST-WDL3 was present in two major bands, the lower of which was predicted to be a degradation product based on immunoblots using an anti-GST antibody (see Supplemental Figures 7A and 7B online). In order to determine whether WDL3 binds to microtubules, a cosedimentation assay was used to analyze binding of WDL3 to paclitaxel-stabilized microtubules. GST-WDL3 (4 μM) was incubated with preformed 5 μM paclitaxel-stabilized microtubules at room temperature for 20 min, followed by centrifugation. SDS-PAGE analysis revealed that GST-WDL3, but not GST alone, bound and cosedimented with the microtubules (Figure 8A). Then, the subcellular localization of WDL3 was investigated. A construct expressing WDL3 fused with a C-terminal GFP tag under control of the 35S promoter was generated and transiently introduced into Arabidopsis cells. Confocal microscopy revealed that WDL3-GFP formed filamentous structures in pavement cells (Figure 8B). The filaments were mostly intact in the presence of latrunculin A (LatA), a reagent that depolymerizes actin filaments (Figure 8C), but were disrupted by treatment with the microtubule-disrupting reagent oryzalin (Figure 8D). After washout of oryzalin, the filamentous WDL3-GFP structures recovered (Figure 8E). To confirm this result, WDL3-GFP and MBD-mCherry (mCherry-tagged microtubule binding domain of MAP4) were transiently coexpressed in Arabidopsis pavement cells. Confocal microscopy showed that the green fluorescent signal of WDL3-GFP overlapped with the red fluorescent signal of MBD-mCherry, confirming that WDL3 localized to microtubules (Figures 8F to 8H). Colocalization was analyzed by plotting the signal intensities of WDL3-GFP and MBD-mCherry using ImageJ software (Figures 8H and 8I). Filamentous structures that could be disrupted by oryzalin, but not LatA, were also observed in hypocotyl epidermal cells of Arabidopsis seedlings stably expressing WDL3-GFP (see Supplemental Figures 8A to 8C online). By contrast, actin filaments decorated with stably expressed fABD2-GFP (GFP tagged the second actin binding domain of Arabidopsis fimbrin) were disrupted by treatment with LatA (see Supplemental Figures 8D and 8E online). These data demonstrate that WDL3 colocalizes with microtubules in vitro and in cells. [[FIGURE]] Effects of WDL3 on microtubules were investigated by confocal and electron microscopy. Paclitaxel-stabilized microtubules polymerized from rhodamine-labeled tubulins exhibited single filament patterns in the absence of WDL3, as observed using confocal microscopy (Figure 9A) and negative-staining electron microscopy (Figure 9E). However, addition of GST-WDL3 or WDL3 (without the GST tag) resulted in formation of large microtubule bundles (Figures 9B, 9C, 9F, and 9G). To strip WDL3 from the microtubules, 200 mM NaCl was added to the reaction. Following the addition of NaCl, WDL3-induced microtubule bundles dispersed into single filaments (Figure 9D). To further confirm microtubule bundling by WDL3, a low-speed cosedimentation assay was performed. Arabidopsis microtubule-bundling protein MAP65-1 was used as a control (CITATION). Tubulin (20 μΜ) was assembled at 35°C for 30 min in the presence or absence of 8 μΜ WDL3 or 6 μM MAP65-1 and centrifuged at 5900g. Microtubules alone did not sediment following low speed centrifugation (Figure 9H, lanes 1 and 2). However, the majority of microtubules appeared in the low-speed pellets when incubated with WDL3 or the MAP65-1 fusion protein (Figures 9H, lanes 3 to 6, and 9I). These data indicate that WDL3 plays a role in microtubule bundling. [[FIGURE]] Next, we tested whether WDL3 could protect microtubules against cold-induced and dilution-induced depolymerization. MAP65-1, which has been shown to stabilize microtubules under these conditions (CITATION), was used as a control. Rhodamine-labeled tubulin (20 μM) was incubated in the presence and absence of WDL3 (3 μM) or MAP65-1 (3 μM) to allow tubulin polymerization (Figures 9J to 9L). The solutions were then incubated at 10°C for 30 min (Figures 9M to 9O) or diluted with 50× prewarmed buffer and incubated at 35°C for 60 min (Figures 9P to 9R) prior to fixation. After fixation, the samples were observed by confocal microscopy. The results showed that microtubule filaments in the absence of WDL3 were fully disassembled after cold and dilution treatments (Figures 9M and 9P). However, many microtubules persisted in the presence of WDL3 (Figures 9N and 9Q) and MAP65-1 (Figures 9O and 9R) after the cold and dilution treatments. These results indicate that WDL3 is capable of stabilizing microtubules against low-temperature and dilution induced depolymerization.
!~MM~! All Arabidopsis thaliana plants and materials used in this study were in the Columbia-0 ecotype background. Seeds were sterilized and placed on half-strength MS medium (Sigma-Aldrich) containing 0.8% agar and 1% Suc. For hypocotyl measurement, plates were placed at 22°C in the light for 5 or 7 d after stratification at 4°C for 3 d. Mutant rpn1a-4 plants and 35S:Tubulin6A-GFP transgenic plants have previously been described (CITATION; CITATION). The full-length WDL3 cDNA sequence was amplified by RT-PCR. Primers used to amplify WDL3 were 5′-GGATCCATGGATATCTGTATGGACAAGG-3′ and 5′-GTCGACTTAGCAGGCAAAAGCAGTCTC-3′. GST-tagged fusion proteins were expressed and purified according to the manufacturer’s protocols. Protein concentration was determined using a Bio-Rad protein assay kit. Protein samples were analyzed by SDS-PAGE. Porcine brain tubulins were purified using a previously published method by CITATION. These purified tubulins were used for sedimentation assays. Tubulin assembly and cosedimentation of microtubules with the fusion proteins were performed as described by CITATION and CITATION.The purified proteins were centrifuged at 150,000g at 4°C for 20 min before use. Prepolymerized, paclitaxel-stabilized microtubules (5 μM) were incubated with 4 μM WDL3 fusion proteins in PEM buffer (1 mM MgCl2, 1 mM EGTA, and 100 mM PIPES-KOH, pH 6.9) plus 20 μM paclitaxel, at room temperature for 20 min. After centrifugation at 100,000g for 20 min, the supernatant and pellets were subjected to SDS-PAGE. Purified tubulin was conjugated to 5-(and 6-)carboxytetramethylrhodamine succinimidyl ester (NHS)-rhodamine, as previously reported (CITATION). NHS-rhodamine–labeled tubulin underwent an additional round of assembly/disassembly with 30% (v/v) glycerin prior to storage in liquid nitrogen. GST-WDL3 protein or GST-MAP65-1 protein (3 μM) was added to 20 μM rhodamine-labeled tubulin in PEM buffer containing 1 mM GTP. After tubulin assembly at 35°C for 40 min, the temperature was immediately decreased to 10°C and maintained for 30 min for low-temperature experiments. For dilution treatments, the assembled tubulin samples described above were diluted with 50× prewarmed PEM buffer containing WDL3 or MAP65-1 and incubated for 60 min at 35°C prior to fixation. Samples were fixed with 1% glutaraldehyde for observation by confocal microscopy. A DNA fragment of the WDL3 promoter containing 1689 bp upstream of the translation start site was amplified by PCR. The primers used for amplification were 5′-GGATCCGGGACCGACCCACTTA-3′ and 5′-GAATTCTTTTCTTGTGACAGACC-3′. The sequence was then cloned into the pCAMBIA1391 vector (Invitrogen). The resulting construct was then transformed into Arabidopsis plants using Agrobacterium tumefaciens (strain GV3101) by the Arabidopsis floral dip method (CITATION). Thirty-seven independent transgenic lines were obtained, and the homozygous seedlings were used for histochemical localization of GUS activity in hypocotyl cells. The GUS staining procedure was performed as previously described by CITATION. Three-day-old etiolated wild-type, WDL3-overexpressing, or WDL3 RNAi Arabidopsis with a GFP-tubulin background grown on half-strength MS medium were treated with light (33 μmol m−2 s−1) for 30 and 60 min, and cortical microtubules were observed using confocal microscopy. To prepare stable WDL3 RNAi Arabidopsis lines, a WDL3 RNAi vector was generated by amplifying 306- or 360-bp WDL3 coding sequences in the sense and antisense orientations and inserting them into the pFGC5941 vector. Primers used for amplification of WDL3 RNAi sequences were 5′-ATTTAAATCTTCGTTCCGATCCACTG-3′ and 5′-GGCGCGCCCGCCTCGAAGCTCCTTTTG-3′; and 5′-CGGATCCATTTAAATCTTCGTTCCGATCCACTG-3′ and 5′-TCTAGAGGCGCGCCCGCCTCGAAGCTCCTTTTG-3′. The following primers were used for amplification of WDL3 RNAi-1 sequences: 5′-CCATGGATGGATATCTGTATGGACAAG-3′ and 5′-CTCGAGTGAAGCACGTTTCTCAGTTG-3′; and 5′-GGATCCCCATGGATGGATATCTGTATGGACAAG-3′ and 5′-TCTAGACTCGAGTGAAGCACGTTTCTCAGTTG-3′. To stably express WDL3-GFP, the full-length WDL3 cDNA was amplified by PCR and subcloned into the pBI221 vector (Invitrogen), which expressed WDL3 under control of the 35S promoter and a nopaline synthase terminator. GFP was amplified and inserted at the C terminus of WDL3. The cDNAs encoding WDL3 and GFP were then amplified and subcloned into the pCAMBIA1300 expression vector and transformed into wild-type (Columbia ecotype) Arabidopsis plants with Agrobacterium (strain GV3101). The transgenic homozygous Arabidopsis lines from the T3 generation were used. RT-PCR and quantitative real-time PCR analysis was performed to assess WDL3 and other WVD2/WDL transcript levels in WDL3 RNAi, RNAi-1, and overexpressing seedlings. Total RNA was isolated using TRIzol reagent (Invitrogen) followed by treatment with RNase-free DNase I (Takara) at 37°C for 30 min to degrade genomic DNA. The treated RNA samples (2 μg each) were used as templates for first-strand cDNA synthesis (Takara). Real-time PCR was performed using Applied Biosystems 7500 real-time PCR system with SYBR Premix Ex Taq (Takara). Relative expression levels were calculated as described (CITATION). All experiments were repeated at least three times. Primers were described in Supplemental Table 2 online. The 18S rRNA was also amplified as a loading control using the following primers: 5′-CGGCTACCACATCCAAGGAA-3′ and 5′-GCTGGAATTACCGCGCGGCT-3′. Protein extracts were prepared from wild-type and WDL3-GFP transgenic seedlings. Blots were probed with an anti-GFP antibody (Roche) at a dilution of 1:5000 in TBST (50 mM Tris, 150 mM NaCl, and 0.05% Tween 20, pH 7.5) and alkaline phosphatase–conjugated goat anti-mouse IgG secondary antibody (Sigma-Aldrich) at a dilution of 1:10,000. Actin or nonspecific bands on the blot were used as loading controls. To analyze the dynamics of individual microtubules, hypocotyl cells of 4-d-old seedlings from the wild-type, WDL3-overexpressing, and WDL3 RNAi lines with GFP-tubulin backgrounds were used. Time series images 300 s in length (with 5-s intervals) were obtained under spinning disc confocal microscopy. Measurements were performed using ImageJ tools as described by CITATION. Microtubules with clearly visible leading plus ends and at least 10 times the number of phase transitions were selected for measurements in the wild-type (n = 36 microtubules from nine seedlings), WDL3-overexpressing (n = 36 microtubules from 20 seedlings), and WDL3 RNAi cells (n = 40 microtubules from 12 seedlings). Rescue and catastrophe event frequencies were measured and analyzed according to CITATION. All of the data were processed using Excel software (Microsoft Office 2003). Subcellular localization of WDL3-GFP and cortical microtubules was visualized using transiently expressed 35S:WDL3-GFP and 35S:MBD-mCherry constructs expressed in Arabidopsis (Columbia ecotype) leaf epidermal cells. These experiments were performed as previously described by CITATION. We used 1 μg of 35S:WDL3-GFP and 1 μg of 35S:MBD-mCherry DNA for particle bombardment using a PDS-1000/He system (Bio-Rad). Six to 8 h after bombardment, GFP and mCherry signals were detected using a Zeiss LSM 510 META confocal microscope. Filamentous structures containing WDL3-GFP in leaf epidermal cells were visualized after treatment with 10 μM oryzalin for 10 min. The procedure was performed as previously described by CITATION. Briefly, we used ImageJ software (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/) to quantify the density of cortical microtubules in the cell. A vertical line was drawn perpendicular to the majority of the cortical microtubules, and the density of cortical microtubules crossing the line was quantified. Measurements were performed in triplicate for each cell, and a minimum of 24 cells per treatment were used. The values were recorded, and significant differences were analyzed using a paired Student’s t test. Sequence data described in this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative under accession numbers At3g23090 (WDL3) and At2g20580 (RPN1a). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. The GFP Tag Does Not Disturb the Physiological Functions of WDL3. Supplemental Figure 2. Expression of WDL3 Is Associated with the Hypocotyl Phenotype in WDL3 RNAi Lines. Supplemental Figure 3. Decreased Expression of WDL3 in WDL3 RNAi-1 Arabidopsis Enhances Hypocotyl Growth. Supplemental Figure 4. Expression of WVD2/WDL Is Unaffected in WDL3 RNAi and RNAi-1 Lines. Supplemental Figure 5. Etiolated Hypocotyl Length Is Similar in Wild-Type, WDL3 Transgenic, and WDL3 RNAi Seedlings. Supplemental Figure 6. WDL3 Expression in Arabidopsis Tissues and Organs. Supplemental Figure 7. Expression and Purification of the GST-Tagged WDL3 Fusion Protein. Supplemental Figure 8. WDL3 Decorates Cortical Microtubules in WDL3-GFP Transgenic Arabidopsis. Supplemental Figure 9. Light and Dark Treatments Affect Sensitivity of Cortical Microtubules to Oryzalin. Supplemental Figure 10. WDL4/5/6 Expression Is Not Regulated by Light at the Protein Level. Supplemental Table 1. Microtubule Dynamic Parameters in Wild-Type, WDL3-Overexpressing, and WDL3 RNAi Lines. Supplemental Table 2. Primers Used to Detect Transcripts in the WVD2/WDL Family.
