!~ABS~! Xylan, a major polysaccharide in plant lignocellulosic biomass, is acetylated at O-2 and/or O-3 and its acetylation impedes the use of biomass for biofuel production. Currently, it is not known what genes encode acetyltransferases that are responsible for xylan O-acetylation. In this report, we demonstrate an essential role for the Arabidopsis gene ESKIMO1 (ESK1) in xylan O-acetylation during secondary wall biosynthesis. ESK1 expression was found to be regulated by the secondary wall master regulator SND1 (secondary wall-associated NAC domain protein1) and specifically associated with secondary wall biosynthesis. Its encoded protein was localized in the Golgi, the site of xylan biosynthesis. The esk1 mutation caused reductions in secondary wall thickening and stem mechanical strength. Chemical analyses of cell walls revealed that although the esk1 mutation did not cause apparent alterations in the xylan chain length and the abundance of the reducing end sequence, it resulted in a significant reduction in the degree of xylan acetylation. The reduced acetylation of esk1 xylan rendered it more accessible and digestible by endoxylanase, leading to generation of shorter xylooligomers compared with the wild type. Further structural analysis of xylan showed that the esk1 mutation caused a specific reduction in 2-O- and 3-O-monoacetylation of xylosyl residues but not in 2,3-di-O-acetylation or 3-O-acetylation of xylosyl residues substituted at O-2 with glucuronic acid. Consistent with ESK1’s involvement in xylan O-acetylation, an activity assay revealed that the esk1 mutation led to a significant decrease in xylan acetyltransferase activity. Together, these results demonstrate that ESK1 is a putative xylan acetyltransferase required for 2-O- and 3-O-monoacetylation of xylosyl residues and indicate the complexity of the biochemical mechanism underlying xylan O-acetylation.
!~RES~! During the course of study of genes regulated by SND1, a master transcriptional regulator of secondary wall biosynthesis in Arabidopsis (CITATION, CITATION), we have previously identified roles for several SND1-regulated genes in xylan biosynthesis (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION), indicating the effectiveness of using SND1 as a molecular tool to search for new genes involved in xylan biosynthesis. In this report, we focused on the At3g55990 gene whose expression was highly induced by SND1 overexpression and down-regulated by simultaneous mutations of SND1 and its functionally redundant gene NST1 (Fig. 1A). The At3g55990 gene was previously named ESKIMO1 (ESK1) and identified as a regulator of freezing tolerance because the esk1 mutation results in a significant elevation in freezing tolerance in the absence of cold acclimation (CITATION, CITATION). The ESK1 gene was shown to be expressed in vascular tissues and its mutation caused a collapsed vessel phenotype and impaired water transport (CITATION), but its biochemical function is not known. Our finding that ESK1 is an SND1-regulated gene indicates its involement in secondary wall biosynthesis. To extend this finding, we examined ESK1 expression in different organs and cell types. Quantitative PCR analysis revealed that at the organ level, ESK1 was most highly expressed in elongated stems (middle and bottom parts of stems in Fig. 1B) in which xylem and interfascicular fiber cells are undergoing massive secondary wall deposition. At the cellular level, ESK1 expression was predominant in secondary wall-forming cells, xylem and interfascicular fibers (Fig. 1C), which was further confirmed by the β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene showing its specific expression in xylem and interfascicular fibers under different developmental stages (Fig. 1D–G).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To find out whether ESK1 is involved in the biosynthesis of cellulose, which occurs at the plasma membrance, or the biosynthesis of xylan, which is carried out in the Golgi, we next investigated the subcellular localization of ESK1. Sequence analysis of ESK1 using the TMHMM2.0 program for prediction of transmembrane helices in proteins (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/service/TMHMM-2.0) predicts that ESK1 is a type II membrane protein with one transmembrane helix (Fig. 2A). Subcellular localization of ESK1 using fluorescence protein tagging in Arabidopsis protoplasts revealed its co-localization with fragile fiber8 (FRA8; Fig. 2D–G), a GT47 glycosyltransferase known to be localized in the Golgi (CITATION). The control protoplasts expressing yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) alone showed fluorescent signals throughout the cytoplasm (Fig. 2B, C). Together, the expression and subcellular localization analyses indicate that the SND1-regulated ESK1 is most probably involved in the biosynthesis of xylan, which takes place in the Golgi.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To find out whether ESK1 is involved in xylan biosynthesis, we first examined the effects of its mutation on secondary wall thickening and stem mechanical strength. A number of known xylan mutants affecting the biosynthesis of the xylan backbone or the xylan reducing end sequence, including fra8, irx8, irx9 and parvus, exhibit common phenotypes, such as retarded plant growth, collapsed xylem vessels, reductions in secondary wall thickening and stem strength, and reduced xylose and glucose amounts in cell walls (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). In addition, the fra8 mutant seedlings often display a wilty leaf phenotype under high water transpiration conditions, probably due to the impediment of water transport caused by the collapse of the xylem vessels (CITATION). Examination of the esk1 mutant plants showed a number of phenotypes that are common to the above-described xylan mutants, including wilty leaves (Fig. 3A), smaller rosette leaves and shorter inflorescence stems (Fig. 3B, C), reduced stem mechanical strength (Fig. 3D), collapsed xylem vessels (Fig. 4A, B) and reduced secondary wall thickening (35% reduction compared with the wild type; Fig. 4C–F). However, no major changes in cell wall composition were noticed in esk1 compared with the wild type, except for a slight decrease in glucose (Fig. 4G), indicating that although the esk1 mutant shares many phenotypes with the xylan mutants, its lack of reduction in xylose content distinguishes it from these mutants with defects in the biosynthesis of the xylan backbone or the xylan reducing end sequence. In other words, the esk1 mutation may affect a step other than the biosynthesis of the xylan backbone or the xylan reducing end sequence.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To ascertain a role for ESK1 in xylan biosynthesis, we compared the structure of xylan from esk1 with that of the wild type. KOH-extracted xylans from esk1 and the wild type were digested with endoxylanase to generate xylooligosaccharides, which were subsequently subjected to structural analysis using nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy (Fig. 5). Xylan from the wild type displayed resonances characteristic of H1 of GlcA and MeGlcA side chains at 5.3 and 5.28 p.p.m., respectively (Fig. 5A). It also exhibited resonances attributed to the backbone xylosyl residues (H1 of branched and unbranched at 4.63 and 4.46 p.p.m., respectively) and the xylan reducing end tetrasaccharide sequence, β-d-Xyl-(1→3)-α-l-Rha-(1→2)-α-d-GalA-(1→4)-d-Xyl (H1 of 3-linked β-d-Xyl, H1 of α-l-Rha, H1 of α-d-GalA, H2 of α-l-Rha and H4 of α-d-GalA) (CITATION). Xylan from esk1 showed all the characteristic resonances corresponding to the backbone xylosyl residues, the xylan reducing end sequence and the GlcA side chains (Fig. 5B). The only noticeable difference between esk1 and the wild type was the ratio of GlcA and methylated GlcA. In the wild type, 58% of GlcA was methylated, whereas 68% of GlcA was methylated in esk1 (Fig. 5). This increased GlcA methylation phenotype somewhat resembles a number of known xylan mutants, such as fra8, irx8, irx9 and parvus, in which GlcA side chains on xylan are completely methylated (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION), indicating that the increased GlcA methylation observed in esk1 is likely to be an indirect effect common to some other xylan mutants.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Since we did not detect any major defects in the biosynthesis of the xylan backbone, the biosynthesis of the xylan reducing end sequence or the substitution of GlcA side chains, we investigated whether the esk1 mutation affected the degree of O-acetylation of xylan. Since acetyl groups are lost during the xylan extraction with KOH, we used dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) to extract acetylated xylan (CITATION). We first examined the amount of acetyl groups present in the total cell walls, pectins and DMSO-extracted acetylated xylans. It was found that the esk1 mutation resulted in >30% reduction in acetyl groups in both total cell walls and the xylan fraction, but not in the pectin fraction (Table 1), indicating that the esk1 mutation caused a defect in xylan acetylation. Transformation of the wild-type ESK1 gene into the esk1 mutant not only rescued the defects in stem strength, secondary wall thickening and plant growth, but also restored the level of acetyl groups in both total cell walls and the xylan fraction to the wild-type level.  To examine the degree of xylan acetylation in the esk1 mutant, we digested DMSO-extracted xylan with endoxylanase to generate xyloligosaccharides, which were subsequently subjected to matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF-MS) (Fig. 6). The predominant signal peaks from wild-type xylooligosaccharides are m/z 1,093, 1,107, 1,149, 1,225 and 1,267, which correspond to Xyl6(GlcA)(Ac)2, Xyl6(MeGlcA)(Ac)2, Xyl6(MeGlcA)(Ac)3, Xyl7(GlcA)(Ac)2 and Xyl7(GlcA)(Ac)3, respectively. There are a number of other less abundant signal peaks corresponding to various Xyl4–Xyl8 substituted with various numbers of GlcA, MeGlcA and acetyl groups. In contrast, the most abundant signal peak from esk1 xylooligosaccharides is m/z 801 corresponding to Xyl4(MeGlcA)(Ac), which is present in very low abundance in the wild type. Two other signal peaks m/z 787 and m/z 817, corresponding to Xyl4(GlcA)(Ac) and Xyl3(MeGlcA)2, respectively, were also highly elevated in esk1 compared with the wild type. On the other hand, the signal peaks m/z 1,093, 1,107, 1,149, 1,225 and 1,267, which correspond to longer xylooligosaccharides with more acetyl groups, are significantly reduced in their abundance in esk1 compared with the wild type. These results demonstrate that the esk1 mutation increases the digestibility of acetylated xylan by endoxylanase, leading to generation of shorter xylooligosaccharides with fewer numbers of acetyl groups compared with the wild type, which is consistent with the reduced xylan acetylation observed in esk1 (Table 1).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The finding that the esk1 mutation causes a defect in xylan acetylation prompted us to investigate further the patterns of acetyl substitutions on xylan by NMR spectroscopy. Acetylated xylan from the wild type exhibited resonances typical for acetyl groups around 2.2 p.pm. and all the sugar groups between 3.0 and 5.3 p.p.m. (Fig. 7A) (CITATION). Although the resonances for the acetyl and sugar groups were present in the acetylated xylan of the esk1 mutant, a significant reduction in the signals for acetyl groups was evident in esk1 compared with the wild type (Fig. 7B). Integration analysis showed that the relative amount of acetyl groups in esk1 xylan was reduced by 30% compared with the wild type (Table 2), which is congruent with the chemical analysis of acetyl groups on xylan (Table 1). The average degree of substitution of the xylosyl residues with acetyl groups (DSAc) was reduced from 61% in the wild type down to 42% in esk1 (Table 2).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We next examined whether the esk1 mutation affected the distribution pattern of acetyl groups on xylan based on the fingerprint region of the 1H-NMR spetra of acetylated xylans (Fig. 8). The proton resonances for different structural fragments were assigned based on the published data for aspen wood xylan (CITATION) and further confirmed by two-dimensional heteronuclear single quantum coherence spectroscopy. The wild-type acetylated xylan exhibited characteristic resonances corresponding to 2-O-monoacetylated xylosyl residues, 3-O-monoacetylated xylosyl residues, 2,3-di-O-acetylated xylosyl residues and 3-O-monoacetylated xylosyl residues substituted at O-2 with GlcA/MeGlcA (Fig. 8A, B). In addition, O-3-linked acetyl groups were much more abundant than O-2-linked acetyl groups in the wild-type acetylated xylan. Examination of the acetylated xylan from esk1 revealed a signficant reduction in resonance signals for 2-O-monoacetylated and 3-O-monoacetylated xylosyl residues (Fig. 8B). Integration analysis demonstrated that the signal abundance for 2-O-monoacetylated and 3-O-monoacetylated xylosyl residues was reduced by 67% and 34%, respectively, in esk1 compared with the wild type (Table 3). In contrast, no reduction was noticed for the resonance signals attributed to 2,3-di-O-acetylated xylosyl residues and 3-O-monoacetylated xylosyl residues substituted at O-2 with GlcA/MeGlcA. It was intersting to note that the resonance signals corresponding to GlcA/MeGlcA were elevated in esk1 compared with the wild type (Fig. 8, Table 3). Together, the NMR analysis of acetyl groups in xylan demonstrated that the esk1 mutation specifically affected acetyl substitutions at O-2 or O-3 of xylosyl residues.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To substantiate further the role of ESK1 in xylan acetylation, we investigated whether the esk1 mutation affected the xylan acetyltransferase activity. The acetyltransferase activity was assayed in stem microsomes using acetyl-coenzyme A (acetyl-CoA) as an acetyl donor in the presence or absence of the Xyl6 acceptor. A high level of incorporation of acetyl groups onto the Xyl6 acceptor was detected in the wild-type microsomes (Fig. 9), demonstrating that the wild-type microsomes possess an acetyltransferase acitivty that is able to transfer the acetyl groups from the acetyl-CoA donor onto xylooligomer acceptors. Assay of the acetyltransferase activity in esk1 microsomes revealed a significantly reduced activity, which was about 20% of that of the wild type (Fig. 9). In contrast, the activities of two other xylan biosynthetic enzymes, xylosyltransferase and methyltransferase, were only slightly altered in esk1 compared with the wild type (Fig. 9). These results are consistent with the chemical analysis showing that the esk1 mutation caused a specific reduction in xylan acetylation.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Total RNAs were isolated from Arabidopsis tissues with a Qiagen RNA isolation kit. RNAs from different cell types (interfascicular fibers, xylem and pith cells) were isolated and amplified as described previously (CITATION). RNAs were first reverse-transcribed to generate first-strand cDNAs, which were subsequently used as templates for real-time quantitative PCR analysis with the QuantiTect SYBR Green PCR kit (Clontech). The PCR primers for ESK1 are 5′-acgtcacgcattctcttaatgttc-3′ and 5′-tcacgaacgggaaatgatacgtgt-3′. The relative expression level was calculated by normalizing the PCR threshold cycle number of each gene with that of the EF1α reference gene. The data were the average of three biological replicates. For the GUS reporter gene analysis, the ESK1 gene containing a 3 kb 5′ upstream sequence, the entire coding region and a 2 kb 3′ downstream sequence was used. The GUS gene was inserted in-frame right before the stop codon of ESK1, and then cloned into pBI101 (Clontech) to create the GUS reporter construct. Inflorescence stems from 6-week-old transgenic plants expressing the GUS reporter gene were examined for the GUS activity described previously (CITATION). For subcellular localization of ESK1, YFP-tagged ESK1 and cyan fluorescent protein (CFP)-tagged Golgi marker (FRA8; CITATION) were co-transfected into Arabidopsis leaf protoplasts (CITATION). Fluorescence signals in transfected protoplasts were visualized using a Leica TCs SP2 spectral confocal microscope (Leica Microsystems). The basal parts of the main inflorescence stems of mature plants were fixed in 2% formaldehyde and embedded in low viscosity (Spurr’s) resin (Electron Microscopy Sciences) (CITATION). Sections 1 µm thick were cut with a microtome and stained with toluidine blue for light microscopy. For fiber wall thickness measurement, 85 nm thick stem sections were cut, post-stained with uranyl acetate and lead citrate, and observed using a Zeiss EM 902A transmission electron microscope. The first layer of interfascicular fibers next to the endodermis was measured for wall thickness. The basal parts of inflorescence stems of mature plants were measured for their breaking force using a digital force/length tester (Larson System) (CITATION). Breaking force was calculated as the force needed to break apart a stem segment. Inflorescence stems from mature plants were used for cell wall isolation according to CITATION. Neutral cell wall sugars (as alditol acetates) were determined following the procedure described by CITATION. The alditol acetates of the hydrolyzed cell wall sugars were analyzed on a PerkinElmer Clarus 500 gas–liquid chromatograph instrument equipped with a 30 m × 0.25 mm (i.d.) silica capillary column DB 225 (Alltech Associates). Acetylated xylan extracted with DMSO (CITATION) was digested with β-endoxylanase M6 (Megazyme) to generate xylooligosaccharides, which were used for MALDI-TOF-MS according to CITATION. The spectrometer was operated in the positive-ion mode with an accelerating voltage of 30 kV, an extractor voltage of 9 kV and a source pressure of approximately 8 × 10−7 Torr. The aqueous sample was mixed (1 : 1, v/v) with the MALDI matrix (0.2 M 2,5-dihydroxbenzoic acid and 0.06 M 1-hydroxyisoquinoline in 50% acetonitrile) and dried on a stainless steel target plate. The spectra were the average of 100 laser shots. NMR spectra of KOH- and DMSO-extracted xylan were acquired at 20°C on a 600 MHz spectrometer (599.7 MHz, 1H) using a 3 mm cryogenic triple resonance probe (CITATION). All NMR samples were prepared with 100% D2O. For all experiments, 128 transients were collected using a spectral width of 6,000 Hz and an acquisition time of 5 s. The residual water resonance was suppressed by a 1 s pre-saturation pulse at a field strength of 40 Hz. All spectra were processed with 0.2 Hz apodization followed by zero-filling to 128 k points. The 1H NMR assignments were done by comparing them with the NMR spectral data for xylan structure (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). The amount of acetyl groups in cell walls and DMSO-extracted xylan was determined by quantifying acetic acid released from cell wall polysaccharides upon treatment with NaOH according to CITATION. The cell wall residues were first de-pectinated with ammonium oxalate, and then extracted for acetic acid with NaOH. After neutralization with HCl, the amount of acetic acid liberated in the extract was determined using an acetic acid assay kit (Megazyme). Microsomes were isolated from 6-week-old Arabidopsis inflorescence stems and used for the acetyltransferase activity assay. For each assay, microsomes (200 µg) were incubated with the reaction mixture (50 µl) containing 100 mM HEPES-KOH, pH 7.0, 5 mM MgCl2, 5 mM MnCl2, 0.5% Triton X-100, 1 mM dithiothreitol, 0.5% bovine serum albumin, 6% sucrose, 3 mM UDP-xylose, 1 µg µl−1 Xyl6 and [14C-acetyl]CoA (0.1 µCi; American Radiolabeled Chemical). The reaction products were separated from [14C-acetyl]CoA by paper chromatography according to CITATION and counted for the amount of radioactivity with a PerkinElmer scintillation counter. Microsomes (100 µg) were incubated with the reaction mixture (50 µl) containing 100 mM HEPES-KOH, pH 7.0, 1 mM CoCl2, 0.5% Triton X-100, 1 µg µl−1 GlcA-substituted Xyl4 isolated from the gxm1/2/3 triple mutant, and S-[14C-methyl]adenosylmethionine (0.1 µCi; American Radiolabeled Chemical). The radiolabeled reaction products were separated from S-[14C-methyl]adenosylmethionine by AG1-X4 anion exchange chromatography (CITATION, CITATION) and counted for the amount of radioactivity with a PerkinElmer scintillation counter. The xylosyltransferase activity in microsomes isolated from inflorescence stems was assayed according to CITATION. The reaction products were separated from UDP-[14C]Xyl by paper chromatography according to CITATION and counted for the amount of radioactivity with a PerkinElmer scintillation counter.
