!~ABS~! COMPARATIVE GENE IDENTIFICATION-58 (CGI-58) is a key regulator of lipid metabolism and signaling in mammals, but its underlying mechanisms are unclear. Disruption of CGI-58 in either mammals or plants results in a significant increase in triacylglycerol (TAG), suggesting that CGI-58 activity is evolutionarily conserved. However, plants lack proteins that are important for CGI-58 activity in mammals. Here, we demonstrate that CGI-58 functions by interacting with the PEROXISOMAL ABC-TRANSPORTER1 (PXA1), a protein that transports a variety of substrates into peroxisomes for their subsequent metabolism by β-oxidation, including fatty acids and lipophilic hormone precursors of the jasmonate and auxin biosynthetic pathways. We also show that mutant cgi-58 plants display changes in jasmonate biosynthesis, auxin signaling, and lipid metabolism consistent with reduced PXA1 activity in planta and that, based on the double mutant cgi-58 pxa1, PXA1 is epistatic to CGI-58 in all of these processes. However, CGI-58 was not required for the PXA1-dependent breakdown of TAG in germinated seeds. Collectively, the results reveal that CGI-58 positively regulates many aspects of PXA1 activity in plants and that these two proteins function to coregulate lipid metabolism and signaling, particularly in nonseed vegetative tissues. Similarities and differences of CGI-58 activity in plants versus animals are discussed.
!~RES~! To gain insight to the molecular function of CGI-58 in plants, we screened an Arabidopsis cDNA library using CGI-58 as bait in a yeast two-hybrid system and identified three strongly interacting proteins (see Supplemental Table 1 and Supplemental Figure 1 online). Sequencing of the respective prey plasmids revealed that one of the interacting proteins contained a polypeptide sequence corresponding to the C-terminal 142 amino acids of the peroxisomal transport protein PXA1. PXA1 is known to play a number of important roles in plant lipid metabolism, including the transport of FAs into peroxisomes for breakdown by β-oxidation as well as uptake of several lipophilic hormone precursors, including 12-oxophytodienoic acid (OPDA) and indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), for their subsequent conversion via β-oxidation into biologically more active forms, namely, jasmonic acid (JA) and indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), respectively (Figure 1) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Moreover, disruption of PXA1 was previously shown to result in elevated accumulation of LDs and TAG in vegetative tissues under certain physiological conditions (CITATION; CITATION). The general similarity of oil accumulation phenotypes in both cgi-58 (CITATION) and pxa1 mutant (CITATION; CITATION) plants suggested that CGI-58 and PXA1 might function cooperatively in regulating lipid metabolism and signaling; thus, the relationships between CGI-58 and PXA1 were investigated further. [[FIGURE]] PXA1 is a full-size ABC transport protein that consists of two duplicated regions, each of which contains six putative membrane-spanning domains followed by a cytosol-exposed nucleotide binding domain (NBD) composed of Walker A and B motifs (Figure 2A; see Supplemental Figure 2 online for the polypeptide sequence of PXA1). The fragment of PXA1 identified in the yeast two-hybrid screen included the Walker B motif of the second NBD (NBD2-B) (Figures 2B and 2C), which is a region known to be important for regulating the activity of PXA1 in planta (CITATION; CITATION). Although we were unable to detect an interaction between CGI-58 and full-length PXA1 expressed in yeast cells using the two-hybrid assay, CGI-58 could pull down full-length PXA1 protein in coimmunoprecipitation assays in vitro (Figure 2D; see Supplemental Figure 3 online). As such, additional experiments were conducted to further characterize the interaction between CGI-58 and the C-terminal region of PXA1. For instance, CGI-58 also was able to bind in the yeast two-hybrid assay to the entire NBD2 region containing both Walker A and B motifs (Figures 2B and 2C). However, CGI-58 did not bind the NBD2-A region alone or to any region of NBD1 (Figures 2B and 2C). CGI-58 also did not bind to a mutant version of NBD2-B where the sequence was changed to match that of the pxa1 mutant, where the C-terminal 31 amino acids of the PXA1 protein is replaced with a different sequence of 19 amino acids due to a splice site mutation, and which severely disrupts PXA1 activity in plants (CITATION; CITATION) (Figures 2B and 2C, and Supplemental Figure 2 online). By contrast, the introduction of a point mutation into the NBD2-B sequence (D1276ΔN), which has only a mild effect on PXA1 activity in vivo (CITATION) and no detectable effect in vitro (CITATION), did not prevent interaction with CGI-58 (Figures 2B and 2C). [[FIGURE]] The interaction of CGI-58 and the NBD2-B region of PXA1 also was supported by results from a complementary series of nuclear relocalization assays in plant suspension-cultured cells (Figures 2B and 2E), whereby a green fluorescent protein (GFP)–tagged version of CGI-58 was coexpressed with various regions of PXA1 fused to the red fluorescent protein and a nuclear localization signal (RFP-NLS). While coexpression of GFP-CGI-58 and RFP-NLS resulted in the cytosolic localization of GFP-CGI-58 and nuclear localization of RFP-NLS, as expected (CITATION; CITATION) (Figure 2E, top row of images), coexpression of GFP-CGI-58 with RFP-NLS fused to the PXA1 NBD2-B region resulted in a portion of GFP-CGI-58 being relocalized to the nucleus due to protein–protein associations (white arrowhead in second row of images in Figure 2E). Similar nuclear relocalization was observed when GFP-CGI-58 was coexpressed with RFP-NLS fused to the NDB2-B region harboring the minor D1276ΔN mutation (Figure 2E, fourth row) but not when RFP-NLS was fused to the NBD2-B region containing the more extensive pxa1 mutation at the C terminus (Figure 2E, third row). Taken together, the results presented in Figure 2 demonstrate that CGI-58 interacts specifically with the C-terminal NBD2-B region of PXA1 and that mutations in this sequence that are known to modulate the activity of PXA1 in vivo similarly modulate its interaction with CGI-58. The results presented in Figure 2E and in our earlier studies (CITATION) indicate that CGI-58 is localized primarily to the cytosol in plant cells when analyzed in transient expression assays and at early time points. On the other hand, the observation that CGI-58 interacts with the C-terminal region of PXA1, which is oriented toward the cytosol in the context of the full-length protein (Figure 2A) (CITATION), implies that CGI-58 might localize also to peroxisomes. Indeed, as shown in Figure 3 (top row), transient expression of GFP-CGI-58 in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) leaves using Agrobacterium tumefaciens infiltration revealed that at early time points after infection (i.e., 2 d) the protein localized primarily to the cytosol but also was associated with peroxisomes that were labeled with the coexpressed peroxisomal matrix marker Cherry-PTS1 (CITATION). At later times points after infection (i.e., 4 or 5 d), the majority of GFP-CGI-58 was associated with peroxisomes (Figure 3, middle row). In fact, peroxisomal-associated GFP-CGI-58 often exhibited a ring-like fluorescence pattern that surrounded the Cherry-PTS1–labeled peroxisomal matrix (Figure 3, bottom row), suggesting that CGI-58 was localized to the cytosolic surface of the peroxisomal boundary membrane. A similar peroxisomal membrane ring-like fluorescence pattern was observed when GFP-CGI-58 was expressed in the absence of Cherry-PTS1 but not when GFP alone was coexpressed with Cherry-PTS1 (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). [[FIGURE]] Our working hypothesis is that CGI-58 functions, at least in part, by positively regulating the transport activity of PXA1. To test this hypothesis, we analyzed wild-type, cgi-58, pxa1, or cgi-58 pxa1 mutant Arabidopsis plants in a variety of physiological assays known to be dependent on PXA1 transport activity. First, mechanical wounding of wild-type plants induces the production of JA, whose synthesis is believed by most to begin with the release of linolenic acid from galactolipids in the plastid, followed by a series of metabolic transformations that eventually produce OPDA (Figure 1) (CITATION). OPDA is transported into peroxisomes via PXA1 and converted to JA (CITATION; CITATION). In plants disrupted in pxa1, the amount of wound-inducible JA was significantly reduced compared with the wild type, consistent with a reduction in OPDA uptake by PXA1 (Figure 4A) (CITATION). cgi-58 mutant plants also displayed a reduction in wound-inducible JA formation compared with the wild type, although the phenotype was perhaps not as severe as in the pxa1 mutant (Figure 4A). On the other hand, the cgi-58 pxa1 double mutant displayed a phenotype that was similar to pxa1 alone (Figure 4A), indicating that PXA1 was epistatic to CGI-58 in these assays and consistent with the hypothesis that CGI-58 functions in part by modulating the activity of PXA1. [[FIGURE]] Measurement of gene expression patterns in the mechanically wounded Arabidopsis plants using quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) provided further insight to the functional relationships of CGI-58 and PXA1 during stress response. For instance, CGI-58 expression was stimulated ∼10-fold in wild-type plants in response to wounding, but this increase was reduced by half in pxa1 mutant plants (Figure 4B). Similarly, the expression of allene oxide synthase (AOS), a wound-inducible gene involved in metabolic transformation of linolenic acid into OPDA in the plastids (CITATION), also was reduced moderately in both pxa1 and cgi-58 plants and was reduced significantly in the cgi-58 pxa1 double mutant plants (Figure 3B). These results indicate that CGI-58 is induced during the plant wounding response, that this induction is dependent partially on PXA1, and that both CGI-58 and PXA1 likely participate in amplifying the stress-induced JA signaling pathway through feedback regulation at the transcriptional level. PXA1 also is required for the transport of the auxin IBA into peroxisomes for its subsequent conversion to IAA, which is a potent regulator of plant growth and development (Figure 1) (CITATION; CITATION). Inclusion of either IBA or IAA in growth media represses root elongation of wild-type Arabidopsis plants, but pxa1 mutant plants are resistant to the effects of IBA due to reduced transport into peroxisomes for conversion to IAA (Figures 5A and 5B) (CITATION). cgi-58 mutant plants also displayed tolerance to IBA but showed an intermediate phenotype between wild-type and pxa1 mutant seedlings (Figure 5B). Moreover, cgi-58 pxa1 double mutant plants displayed a phenotype similar to the pxa1 mutant alone, revealing an epistatic relationship of PXA1 to CGI-58 in the auxin signaling pathway. Similar inhibitory results were observed if the synthetic auxins 2,4-dichlorophenoxybutyric acid or 2,4-D, which are similar to IBA and IAA in that their conversion requires PXA1 (CITATION), were used in the root bioassays (see Supplemental Figure 5A online) or if auxin sensitivity was measured using hypocotyl elongation assays (see Supplemental Figure 5B online). Collectively, these results demonstrate that auxin signaling pathways were similarly disrupted in at least two different organ types, both of which require PXA1 transport activity for full biological activity. [[FIGURE]] Previous studies revealed that disruption of CGI-58 or PXA1 resulted in a significant increase in TAG content in plant leaves, particularly for TAG molecular species containing polyunsaturated FAs (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To directly compare changes in lipid content and composition, we analyzed LD abundance and individual TAG molecular species in leaves of wild-type, pxa1, cgi-58, and cgi-58 pxa1 double mutant plants. As shown in Figure 6, disruption of either cgi-58 or pxa1 resulted in an increase in LD abundance in leaf mesophyll cells in comparison to the wild type. The abundance of LDs also was increased in the cgi-58 pxa1 double mutant plants, but the increase was no greater than that of either single mutant alone (Figure 6A). Lipidomics analysis of leaf lipids revealed that the TAG pools in each mutant plant line were enriched in TAG molecular species containing polyunsaturated FAs, including 54:9 and 54:8 (Figure 6B). These data indicate that CGI-58 and PXA1 likely operate on the same or similar biochemical pathway(s) to limit TAG accumulation in plant leaves, particularly in regards to accumulation of TAGs containing polyunsaturated FAs, and that loss of PXA1 and/or CGI-58 activity results in enhanced TAG formation, perhaps due to reduced FA turnover. [[FIGURE]] Since PXA1 is known to play an essential role in turnover of FAs derived from TAGs in germinated seeds (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), we investigated whether CGI-58 also was required for the breakdown of FAs in support of postgerminative growth. As shown in Figure 7A, pxa1 mutant seedlings were unable to establish unless Suc was provided in the growth medium. However, the cgi-58 mutant plants could establish in the absence of Suc, similar to the wild type, suggesting that TAG and FA breakdown was not compromised in the mutant plants. Measurement of FA content throughout seed germination and establishment confirmed that FAs were indeed broken down at similar rates in both wild-type and cgi-58 mutant plants (Figure 7B). Taken together with the results described above, it is apparent that CGI-58 and PXA1 participate in regulating TAG content in non-lipid-storing mesophyll cells of plant leaves, but these functions apparently do not overlap in lipid storing cells of seeds. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Plant lines included wild-type Arabidopsis thaliana (Columbia-0 [Col-0]), the cgi-58 mutant (SALK collection number 136871; Col-0 background; homozygous T-DNA disrupted line; CITATION), and the pxa1 mutant (an ethyl methanesulfonate–generated, splice-site mutant of Col-0; CITATION; kindly provided by Ian Graham, University of York). The pxa1 cgi-58 double mutant was generated by crossing pxa1 and cgi-58 plants, and progeny harboring at least one disrupted allele of cgi-58 were identified by PCR-based genotyping, as described (CITATION). Plants homozygous for pxa1 were subsequently identified in the next generation by an inability of seedlings to establish in media lacking Suc (CITATION) and then plants were recovered and genotyped to identify those plants that were homozygous for cgi-58. All Arabidopsis plants were grown in chambers at 21°C with a 16-h/8-h light/dark cycle. Seeds were typically surface sterilized and sown in plant nutrient media (CITATION) or half-strength Murashige and Skoog salts (CITATION) containing 0.5% Suc and solidified with 0.6% (w/v) agar for various growth assays. Tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum cv Xanthi) plants were grown in chambers at 21°C with a 16-h/8-h light/dark cycle. Tobacco (N. tabacum cv Bright Yellow-2) suspension cell cultures were maintained as described (CITATION). Total lipids were extracted from combined leaves of mature plants (35-d old, two plants per sample) and fractionated as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). Lipid species were identified and quantified by direct-infusion, electrospray ionization–mass spectrometry (CITATION) using a Waters Micromass Quattro Ultima triple quadrupole MS (Waters). TAG molecular species were quantified in full scan mode with acyl species identified by neutral loss fragmentation spectra in tandem mass spectrometry scans with a collision energy of 30 V (CITATION). Tripentadecanoyl glycerol (tri-15:0) was added at the time of extraction and used as a quantitative standard for TAG content. Polar lipids, including phosphatidylcholine, monogalactosyldiacylglycerol, and digalactosyldiacylglycerol, were quantified based on a di-14:0 phosphatidylethanolamine internal standard. Typical scanning conditions for a direct infusion rate of 12.5 µL/min were performed in positive ion mode with a 3- to 3.5-kV spray voltage, 40-V cone voltage, and a scan mass-to-charge ratio range of 100 to 1050. The desolvation and source temperatures were maintained at 200 and 80°C, respectively, and the desolvation and cone gas flows were set at 200 and 80 L/h, respectively. Lipid standards were purchased from Avanti Polar Lipids. For free FA analysis, total lipid extracts were derivatized with 1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropylcarbodiimide) and then quantified by gas chromatography–mass spectrometry relative to a 17:0 spiked internal standard. Fourteen-day-old wild-type and cgi-58 mutant seedlings were grown in liquid half-strength Murashige and Skoog media, wounded with forceps, and then five biological replicates were collected and extracted for total lipids at t = 0 and 3 h postwounding. For yeast two-hybrid analysis, the full-length Arabidopsis CGI-58L and CGI-58S open reading frames (ORFs) (CITATION) (see Supplemental Figure 1 online) were amplified by PCR using appropriate primers (sequences of all primers used in this study are available upon request), and then PCR products were purified, digested with EcoRI and BamHI, and subcloned into similarly digested bait vector pGBKT7-DNA-BD (Clontech). Modifications to sequences encoding the C terminus of NBD2-B in PXA1, including replacement of the last 31 codons with 19 codons that correspond to the pxa1 mutant (CITATION) (see Supplemental Figure 2 online) or a point mutation changing Asp at position 1276 to Asn (CITATION) (see Supplemental Figure 2 online), were introduced by PCR-based mutagenesis. The PXA1-NBD1-A and/or B regions (corresponding to the same regions present in the NBD2 sequence; see Supplemental Figure 2 online) were cloned into yeast two-hybrid pGADT7-AD (Clontech) and nuclear relocalization (pRLT2/NLS-RFP; CITATION) assay vectors by PCR amplification of the appropriate region of the PXA1 cDNA (CITATION) (kindly provided by Bonnie Bartel, Rice University). Construction of the nuclear relocalization assay vector pRTL2/GFP-CGI-58, encoding a GFP-tagged version of CGI-58L, was described (CITATION). Subcloning of the CGI-58L ORF into the pMDC43 binary vector was performed using Gateway technology (CITATION), which resulted in an in-frame fusion between GFP and CGI-58. Binary vectors expressing either Cherry-PTS1 alone or GFP and Cherry-PTS1 were constructed using the pSAT and pRCS2 vectors (CITATION), as described (CITATION). For coimmunoprecipitation experiments, the full-length PXA1 and CGI-58L ORFs were amplified by PCR using appropriate primers, then PCR products were purified, digested with EcoRI and BamHI or BamHI and HindIII, and subcloned into similarly digested pGADT7 and pET29a+ (Novagen), yielding pGADT7/PXA1 and pET29a+/CGI-58, respectively. An Arabidopsis cDNA expression library (normalized from various plant tissues and cloned into the appropriate prey vector; Clontech) was screened with the Matchmaker Gold Yeast Two-Hybrid System (Clontech) using Arabidopsis CGI-58 as bait. Briefly, the bait plasmid was transformed into the haploid yeast strain Y2H Gold, and then transgenic yeast cells were mated with complementary yeast cells harboring the Arabidopsis expression library. Initial selection of interacting proteins was conducted by plating mated cells on media lacking Trp and Leu (which ensures the diploid yeast cells contain both the bait and prey plasmids) and containing X-α-Gal (which is converted into a blue-colored product if the MEL1 reporter gene is activated) and Aureobasidin A (which normally kills yeast cells but is detoxified by expression and activity of the AUR1-C reporter gene). Colonies were subsequently patched onto higher stringency plates prepared as above but additionally lacking in His and adenine, which are synthesized by the enzymes encoded by the HIS and ADE reporter genes. Yeast strains that grew on the former, lower selection plates were designated “weak” interactors, while strains growing on both low and high stringency conditions were designated as “strong” interactors. Plasmids were extracted from yeast cells to determine the identity of encoded prey proteins by DNA sequencing, and plasmids were retransformed into yeast cells with appropriate empty vector controls to test for autoactivation. Full-length HA-tagged PXA1 was synthesized in vitro using the TNT T7 Coupled Reticulocyte Lysate System (Promega) according to the manufacturer’s protocol, with pGADT7/PXA1 serving as template plasmid DNA. Equal amounts of total Escherichia coli protein lysates containing recombinant S-tagged CGI-58 or no recombinant protein (i.e., E. coli transformed with empty pET29a+ vector) were immobilized onto S-protein agarose (Novagen) and incubated with an aliquot of in vitro–synthesized HA-PXA1 for 2 h at 4°C. Beads were then collected by centrifugation and washed three times, then boiled in SDS-PAGE loading buffer and proteins separated by SDS-PAGE, blotted on nitrocellulose, and probed with either anti-HA antibodies (Bethyl Laboratories) to detect HA-PXA1 (Figure 2D) or anti-S-tag antibodies (Novagen) to detect S-tagged CGI-58 (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). Nuclear relocalization assays were performed as described (CITATION). Transient cotransformations of Bright Yellow-2 cells were performed using 10 and 1 μg of the plasmids encoding GFP-CGI-58 and the various NLS-RFP fusion proteins, respectively, and a biolistic particle delivery system (Bio-Rad Laboratories), as described (CITATION). Following bombardment, cells were incubated for ∼6 h to allow for gene expression and the intracellular sorting of the introduced gene products and then fixed in formaldehyde and viewed using a Zeiss Axioscope 2 MOT epifluorescence microscope (Carl Zeiss). Image capture was performed using a Retiga 1300 charge-coupled device camera (Qimaging) and Openlab 5.0 software (Improvision). All fluorescence images of cells shown in the figures are representative of >50 independent (transient) transformations from at least two independent cotransformation experiments. Leaves of 4-week-old tobacco plants were infiltrated or coinfiltrated with Agrobacterium (strain LBA4404) carrying the appropriate binary vectors. Procedures for Agrobacterium growth, transformation, infiltration, and processing of leaf material for microscopy are described (CITATION). Confocal laser scanning microscopy images of (co)transformed epidermal and/or mesophyll cells were acquired 2 to 5 d after infiltration using a Leica DM RBE microscope. Fluorophore emissions were collected sequentially; single-labeling experiments showed no detectable crossover at the settings used for data collection. Confocal images were acquired as a Z-series of representative cells, and single optical sections were saved as 512 × 512-pixel digital images. All fluorescence images of Agrobacterium-transformed epidermal cells shown in Figure 3 and Supplemental Figure 4 online are representative of >30 cells from at least two independent (co)transformation experiments. LDs in the mesophyll cells of leaves from ∼3-week-old wild-type and mutant Arabidopsis plants were imaged after BODIPY 493/503 staining (Life Technologies) by confocal laser scanning fluorescence microscopy using BODIPY493 as described (CITATION), except that images were acquired with a Zeiss LSM700 microscope (Carl Zeiss Microscopy). LD numbers were quantified using the Zeiss Zen Blue (2011 edition) software. Eight-day-old Arabidopsis seedlings grown in half-strength Murashige and Skoog liquid media were wounded with forceps. JA and OPDA were extracted from seedlings in 30 mM imidazole buffer, pH 7.0, in 70% isopropanol at 0.5, 1, and 3 h after wounding. Unwounded seedlings were maintained for all treatments as a control. One-hundred nanograms of D5-JA (C/D/N Isotopes) was added to all samples as an internal standard. Samples were incubated overnight at 4°C and then centrifuged at 10,000g for 10 min. The supernatant was then combined with three consecutive extractions in 2 mL of 100% isopropanol. JA and OPDA were further purified by solid phase extraction (NH2-SPE columns; Grace Davison Discovery Science) and reverse-phase HPLC (150 × 4.6-mm C18, Nucleosil 120-5; Macherey-Nagel). JA and OPDA were quantified against the D5-JA standard by gas chromatograph–mass spectrometry as methyl ester (derivatized in ethereal diazomethane) (CITATION). JA and OPDA levels were quantified in triplicate at 0.5, 1, and 3 h after wounding as described above, and the experiments were repeated at least twice. Ten-day-old wild-type, cgi-58, pxa1, and cgi-58 pxa1 seedlings (grown in liquid medium) were mechanically wounded with a hemostat and, either 0.5, 1, or 3 h after wounding, tissues samples were flash frozen in liquid nitrogen. RNA was extracted using an RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen). qRT-PCR was performed using the One-Step Ex Tag qRT-PCR kit (Takara Bio) with SYBR Green (Life Technologies) indicator dye. All amplifications started at 42°C for 15 min followed by a step at 95°C for 110 s. CGI-58L transcripts were amplified through 40 cycles of 94°C for 10 s, 62°C for 25 s, and 72°C for 20 s. AOS transcripts were amplified through 40 cycles of 94°C for 10 s, 57°C for 25 s, and 72°C for 20 s. Ef1α transcripts (used as an internal control) were amplified through 40 cycles of 94°C for 10 s, 56°C for 25 s, and 72°C for 20 s. All samples were subjected also to a melt curve between 65 and 95°C, increasing at 0.2°C/s. Primer efficiency (∼100%) was assessed by subcloning each amplicon into the TOPO TA cloning vector (Life Technologies) followed by quantitative PCR on log dilutions of each plasmid. Fold changes were calculated for each transcript and a Student’s t test was used to determine statistically significant differences between transcripts. Seeds were surface sterilized, plated on medium containing 0.5% Suc (PNS medium) (CITATION; CITATION), and then stratified for 3 d in the dark at 4°C. For root elongation assays, plates were subsequently incubated in constant light for 3 d, and then plants were transferred to fresh PNS plates lacking or containing the indicated amounts of hormones and incubated for 8 d in constant light. Plants were then removed and the primary root length measured. Representative plants from each treatment were grouped and aligned on new agar plates and photographed. For hypocotyl elongation assays, seeds were stratified as above, plates were incubated in the light for 24 h to induce seed germination, and then seeds were transferred to fresh PNS plates lacking or containing the indicated hormones and incubated in the dark for 4 d prior to measuring hypocotyl lengths. At least 15 independent seeds or plants were evaluated for each treatment, and experiments were repeated at least three times. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative under accession numbers At4g24160 (CGI-58) and At4g39850 (PXA1). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Comparison of the Polypeptide Sequences of Arabidopsis CGI-58 Long and Short Isoforms. Supplemental Figure 2. Comparison of the Polypeptide Sequences of the N- and C-Terminal Halves of PXA1. Supplemental Figure 3. Coimmunoprecipitation of CGI-58 and PXA1. Supplemental Figure 4. Localization of GFP and GFP-CGI-58 in Tobacco Leaf Cells. Supplemental Figure 5. Effects of Natural and Synthetic Auxins on Root and Hypocotyl Elongation in Wild-Type and Various Mutant Arabidopsis Plants. Supplemental Figure 6. Lipidomics Analysis of Wild-Type and cgi-58 Mutant Arabidopsis Plants. Supplemental Figure 7. Comparison of the Molecular Structures for Linolenic Acid, OPDA, IBA, and 2,4-DB. Supplemental Table 1. Identification and Characterization of Putative CGI-58-Interacting Proteins.
