!~ABS~! Geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP) is a key precursor of various isoprenoids that have diverse functions in plant metabolism and development. The annotation of the Arabidopsis thaliana genome predicts 12 genes to encode geranylgeranyl diphosphate synthases (GGPPS). In this study we analyzed GGPPS activity as well as the subcellular localization and tissue-specific expression of the entire protein family in A. thaliana. GGPPS2 (At2g18620), GGPPS3 (At2g18640), GGPPS6 (At3g14530), GGPPS7 (At3g14550), GGPPS8 (At3g20160), GGPPS9 (At3g29430), GGPPS10 (At3g32040) and GGPPS11 (At4g36810) showed GGPPS activity in Escherichia coli, similar to activities reported earlier for GGPPS1 (At1g49530) and GGPPS4 (At2g23800) (Zhu et al. in Plant Cell Physiol 38(3):357–361, CITATION; Plant Mol Biol 35(3):331–341, CITATION). GGPPS12 (At4g38460) did not produce GGPP in E. coli. Based on DNA sequence analysis we propose that GGPPS5 (At3g14510) is a pseudogene. GGPPS–GFP (green fluorescent protein) fusion proteins of the ten functional GGPP synthases localized to plastids, mitochondria and the endoplasmic reticulum, with the majority of the enzymes located in plastids. Gene expression analysis using quantitative real time-PCR, GGPPS promoter-GUS (β-glucuronidase) assays and publicly available microarray data revealed a differential spatio-temporal expression of GGPPS genes. The results suggest that plastids and mitochondria are key subcellular compartments for the synthesis of ubiquitous GGPP-derived isoprenoid species. GGPPS11 and GGPPS1 are the major isozymes responsible for their biosynthesis. All remaining paralogs, encoding six plastidial isozymes and two cytosolic isozymes, were expressed in specific tissues and/or at specific developmental stages, suggesting their role in developmentally regulated isoprenoid biosynthesis. Our results show that of the 12 predicted GGPPS encoded in the A. thaliana genome 10 are functional proteins that can synthesize GGPP. Their specific subcellular location and differential expression pattern suggest subfunctionalization in providing GGPP to specific tissues, developmental stages, or metabolic pathways.
!~RES~! Using homology searches Lange and Ghassemian (CITATION) predicted twelve GGPPS paralogs in the A. thaliana genome, with GGPPS12 having the weakest similarity to the other members of the protein family (between 31 and 40 %; Fig. 2a). With the discovery of a novel class of prenyl diphosphate synthase genes, the GPP synthase small subunit (SSU)-II subfamily, GGPPS12 was reclassified as a member of this protein class (Wang and Dixon CITATION). SSUs are highly similar to GGPP synthases at the amino acid level but they lack two aspartate-rich motifs DD(x2–4)D (where “x” is any amino acid) that are important in prenyl-substrate binding, rendering them inactive. In addition, they have two CxxxC motifs (where “x” can be any hydrophobic amino acid) that are important in physical interactions between the two subunits (Wang and Dixon CITATION). [[FIGURE]]  We compared the amino acid sequences of functionally non-characterized GGPP synthases (GGPPS5, 8, 9, 10) with their active counterparts and with the GGPPS12 (Fig. 2b). All GGPP synthases except GGPPS12 have two DD(x2–4)D motifs and lack the second CxxxC motif, suggesting that they are functional proteins. In addition, other amino acids flanking the DD(x 2–4 )D motifs are important for prenyl-substrate binding (Kellogg and Poulter CITATION). These amino acids are also conserved in all GGPP synthases except GGPPS12 (Fig. 2b). We used TargetP (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/; Emanuelsson et al. CITATION) and PSORT (http://psort.hgc.jp/form.html) to identify putative subcellular localization domains in the GGPP synthases whose localization has not been reported. Based on the in silico predictions, GGPPS2, 6, 9 and 10 localize to plastids, GGPPS8 either to mitochondria or to the ER, and GGPPS5 to mitochondria (Fig. 2b). Inspection of the multiple sequence alignment revealed a shorter protein sequence for GGPPS5 compared to its closest paralogs GGPPS6 and GGPPS7 (Fig. 2b). Whereas GGPPS5 is 284 amino acids long, GGPPS6 and GGPPS7 are both 360 amino acids long and contain a plastid targeting sequence at the N terminus. The DNA sequences currently existing in the TAIR10 database for GGPPS5, GGPPS6 and GGPPS7 were examined in more detail (Fig. 3a). Compared to GGPPS6 and GGPPS7, GGPPS5 has an insertion of four nucleotides [GATC] that causes a frame shift if translation is initiated from the [ATG] homologous to the GGPPS6 and GGPPS7 translation initiation codons, resulting in a truncated protein sequence (Fig. 3b). Therefore another [ATG] codon was selected by TAIR as the translation initiation start. This [ATG] codon is present in all homologous sequences (e.g., GGPPS6 and GGPPS7), indicating that it is not specific for GGPPS5. This [ATG] is also not preceded by typical translation initiation sequences such as the Kozak consensus sequence (gcc)gccRccAUGG (R is a purine; Kozak CITATION) or the A. thaliana-specific consensus sequence for AUG context aa(A/G)(A/C)aAUGGcg (Rangan et al. CITATION). Additionally, no cDNA is present in GenBank for AT3G14510 (GGPPS5; http://gbrowse.arabidopsis.org/cgibin/gbrowse/arabidopsis/?name=AT3G14510) that would support the proposed gene model. We therefore consider GGPPS5 a pseudogene and did not include it in our further analysis. [[FIGURE]]  Based on DNA sequence analysis, we predict that the A. thaliana genome encodes ten functional GGPP synthases. Both in vitro enzymatic assays and genetic complementation of E. coli are methods that are widely used to characterize functionality of GGPPS. Crude extracts or purified proteins from E. coli cultures expressing heterologous GGPP synthases were used for enzymatic reactions with [14C]IPP and an allylic substrate (DMAPP or FPP). Under these conditions GGPPS1 (Zhu et al. CITATION), GGPPS2 (Wang and Dixon CITATION), GGPPS3 (Okada et al. CITATION), GGPPS4 (Zhu et al. CITATION), GGPPS7 (Okada et al. CITATION) and GGPPS11 (Okada et al. CITATION; Wang and Dixon CITATION) synthesized GGPP but GGPPS6 only a compound longer than C20 (Wang and Dixon CITATION). GGPPS12 did not produce any prenyl diphosphate (Wang and Dixon CITATION). The GGPPS activity of GGPPS1 and GGPPS4 was tested and confirmed by genetic complementation of E. coli (Zhu et al. CITATION, CITATION). Spectrum and length of prenyl-PP synthesized by prenyl transferases in vitro can be greatly affected by the type and concentration of the used substrate and by the ex vivo experimental conditions (Nishino and Rudney CITATION; Ohnuma et al. CITATION; Pan et al. CITATION; Hsieh et al. CITATION). We therefore used genetic complementation of E. coli to examine the activity of the uncharacterized A. thaliana GGPP synthases. All enzymes tested previously only in in vitro conditions (GGPPS1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 11) were analyzed as well. The crtE gene encoding GGPPS from the Erwinia uredovora lycopene biosynthesis gene cluster present in the pACCRT-EBI vector (Misawa et al. CITATION) was mutated to generate plasmid pACCRT-BI. After E. coli cells are transformed with pACCRT-BI, they only synthesize minor amounts of lycopene due to residual GGPP levels in the bacteria (Vallon et al. CITATION). Lycopene production is increased after co-transformation with another plasmid harboring a protein with GGPPS activity (Fig. 4a). [[FIGURE]]  All putative GGPP synthases except GGPPS1 and GGPPS4 were cloned into pGEX-4T-2 vectors after removal of the signal peptides from the N-termini to improve the solubility of the recombinant proteins (Fig. 4b). As expected, E. coli cells carrying the pACCRT-BI vector and the empty vector pGEX-4T-2 produced very little pigment (Fig. 4c). In contrast, E. coli co-transformed with the pACCRT-BI vector containing the genes for the individual A. thaliana putative GGPP synthases formed red-colored colonies except cells transformed with the pGEX-4T-2 vector carrying GGPPS12. Pigments were extracted from bacterial liquid cultures and quantified by measuring the absorbance of the extracts at 472 nm (Fig. 4c). Vectors containing GGPPS2, GGPPS6, GGPPS7, GGPPS8, GGPPS10 and GGPPS11 highly increased lycopene production in E. coli cells harboring pACCRT-BI, establishing that the genes encode active GGPP synthases. The absorbance of extracts from E. coli cells expressing GGPPS3 and GGPPS9 was not as strong but still significantly (p < 0.05) higher than the vector control, suggesting that they can also produce GGPP. Only GGPPS12 was found to lack GGPP synthase activity, confirming in vitro activity assays (Okada et al. CITATION; Wang and Dixon CITATION). Together, A. thaliana GGPPS1–4 and 6–11 are functional GGPP synthases and GGPPS12 most likely functions as a GPPS small subunit (Wang and Dixon CITATION). The subcellular localization of GGPPS1, GGPPS3, GGPPS4, GGPPS7 and GGPPS11 has already been determined using transit peptide-GFP fusion proteins in tobacco BY-2 cells (GGPPS1; Zhu et al. CITATION and A. thaliana (GGPPS1, 3, 4, 7, 11; Okada et al. CITATION). GGPPS1 was shown to localize to the mitochondria, GGPPS3 and GGPPS4 to the ER, and GGPPS7 and GGPPS11 to plastids. The localization of GGPPS7 and GGPPS11 to plastids was also demonstrated by in vitro import into pea chloroplasts (Okada et al. CITATION), and GGPPS11 was detected in the stroma in chloroplast proteomics studies (Joyard et al. CITATION). All remaining functional GGPP synthases were predicted to have an N-terminal transit peptide for plastid localization, except of GGPPS8 that was predicted to localize to the ER or mitochondria (Fig. 2b). We fused GFP to the C-terminus of the full-length GGPPS proteins to determine the subcellular localization of the entire protein family. Figure 5a, b show that the GGPPS1-GFP signal exhibited a punctuate pattern of a size, shape and distribution that overlapped with the mCherry mitochondrial marker but not with chlorophyll fluorescence. GGPPS1 is therefore a mitochondrial isozyme, supporting earlier results obtained using a transit peptide-GFP fusion protein (Zhu et al. CITATION; Okada et al. CITATION). Both GGPPS3-GFP and GGPPS4-GFP signals formed a filamentous structure that overlapped with the mCherry ER marker. GGPPS3 and GGPPS4 therefore localize to the ER, consistent with transit peptide-GFP fusions (Okada et al. CITATION). The GFP signals of GGPPS2-, 6-, 7-, 8-, 9-, 10- and 11-GFP fusion proteins were localized to plastids based on both chlorophyll autofluorescence and overlap with the mCherry plastid marker, confirming plastidial localization of all remaining proteins. These results are consistent with in vivo data (GGPPS7, 11; Okada et al. CITATION) and in silico data except for GGPPS8, which was predicted by TargetP and PSORT to localize to either mitochondria or ER. [[FIGURE]]  To gain insight into the differential expression of the GGPPS gene family, we first used quantitative real time PCR (RT-qPCR), which allows the specific differential amplification of transcripts from highly similar genes. We analyzed the expression of individual paralogs in seedlings and plant organs such as roots, rosette and cauline leaves, stems, flowers and siliques. Expression levels lower or equal to a cycle threshold value (Cq) of 35 were regarded as significant (Karlen et al. CITATION). The analysis revealed the distinct distribution and accumulation of the GGPPS transcripts in the different organs and in seedlings. GGPPS11 had the highest expression level compared to all other paralogs in all organs and in seedlings (Fig. 6a), representing more than 90 % of the total GGPPS transcripts in all organs except siliques, flowers and roots (Supplemental Table S5). Only GGPPS1, encoding the mitochondrial GGPPS, and GGPPS2, encoding a plastid GGPPS, are also ubiquitously expressed in all organs and in seedlings, although at much lower levels (Fig. 6). Although GGPPS2 is expressed in all organs, expression was significantly more pronounced in siliques and roots (Fig. 6b). Expression of GGPPS3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 is confined to specific organs and developmental stages. In seedlings, all GGPPS genes except GGPPS3, 4 and 9 were expressed. In plants, expression of the remaining GGPPS genes was confined mainly to roots (all except GGPPS4), siliques (all except GGPPS10) and flowers (GGPPS4, 6 and 7). Together, the GGPPS paralogs in A. thaliana have significantly different quantitative and tissue-specific expression patterns. [[FIGURE]]  To obtain more detailed information on the tissue-specific expression of the GGPPS genes, we introduced GGPPS promoter-GUS fusion constructs into A. thaliana and analyzed the transformants using histochemical staining. Since GGPPS1, GGPPS3, GGPPS4, GGPPS7 and GGPPS11 were already characterized (Okada et al. CITATION), we focused on the remaining GGPPS genes. We also included a GGPPS11-GUS promoter fusion because of the discrepancy between the reported GUS data that indicated little promoter activity in roots (Okada et al. CITATION) and our gene expression data shown in Fig. 6b. To clone GGPPS promoters, intergenic regions of a maximum of 1.88 kb were amplified (Fig. 7a). The GGPPS11 promoter contained also part of the upstream gene sequence and was 407 bp longer than the construct used by Okada et al. (CITATION). Plants expressing GGPPS6, GGPPS8, GGPPS10, and GGPPS11 promoter-GUS fusions showed discernable blue staining, while plants expressing GGPPS2 and GGPPS9 promoter-GUS fusions did not give any signal even when stained for more than 48 h. The GGPPS11 promoter expressed GUS ubiquitously in all seedling tissues and during all subsequent phases of plant development, including the roots (Fig. 7b). Thus, the distal 407 bp 5′ sequence of the promoter region present in our construct is required for expression of GGPPS11 in the root. GGPPS6, 8 and 10 promoters directed GUS expression specifically in the roots of both seedlings and adult plants (Fig. 7b). The promoter region of GGPPS10 restricted transcription of GUS in the root tip. The GGPPS6 promoter was also active in the meristematic zone of the root tip, particularly in the columella and the lateral root cap. GGPPS8 expression was detected specifically in the outer cell layers located above the mitotically active area of the root. Although expression of GGPPS6 in flowers, siliques and seedlings, GGPPS9 in roots and siliques and GGPPS2 in all organs and seedlings was detected by RT-qPCR, albeit transcript levels were low (Fig. 6 and Supplemental Table S5), no GUS staining was visible in these tissues. A possible explanation for the discrepancy between the expression detected by RT-qPCR and promoter-GUS fusions can be either the lower sensitivity of GUS detection assay compared to RT-qPCR or the lack of regulatory sequences in the selected promoter regions. [[FIGURE]]  RT-qPCR analysis of gene expression showed that all or most of the GGPPS paralogs are expressed in roots and reproductive organs (siliques and flowers), respectively (Fig. 6b and Supplemental Table S5). Since the tissue-specific expression detected by RT-qPCR did not fully coincide with the GGPPS promoter-GUS fusion data, we used available microarray data sets for roots (Birnbaum et al. CITATION) and seeds (Le et al. CITATION), and extracted microarray data for flower tissues at developmental stages 9, 10/11, 12 and 15 (Smyth et al. CITATION) from the Arabidopsis Development Baseline dataset (Schmid et al. CITATION). Before the analysis we confirmed that the microarray data were similar to the RT-qPCR data using comparable organ samples and that probesets were specific to capture paralog-specific expression data. As shown on Supplemental Table S5, RT-qPCR and microarrays were comparable, although the sensitivity of RT-qPCR was higher as previously reported for other genes expressed at low levels (Czechowski et al. CITATION). Additional signals observed in microarrays in some organs (Supplemental Table S5) can likely be attributed to the differences in sample material used by the two platforms (see section “Materials and methods” and Supplemental Table S5). Except for GGPPS6 and GGPPS7, specific probesets for all paralogs are present on the ATH1 microarray and their specificity is supported by unique expression pattern for each of the paralogs (Supplemental Table S5). There is only one probeset that hybridizes to both GGPPS6 and GGPPS7, and data obtained from microarrays for this probeset reflect expression of both paralogs (GGPPS6/7).  GGPPS1 and GGPPS11 are expressed in all flower tissues, (Fig. 8a and Supplemental Table S6), further substantiating their ubiquitous expression pattern (Fig. 6b). Expression of GGPPS2, another ubiquitously expressed paralog, was not detected on the microarrays in any of the flower tissues (Fig. 8a and Supplemental Table S6), although its expression was detected in flowers by RT-qPCR (Fig. 6b). The reason for this discrepancy might be the lower sensitivity of microarrays to detect gene expression (Supplemental Table S5). Two additional paralogs, GGPPS4 and GGPPS6/7, are expressed in flowers (Fig. 8a and Supplemental Table S6). GGPPS4 is expressed at all flower developmental stages, mainly in stamens, whereas GGPPS6/7 are expressed specifically in carpels at the later stages of flower development. The GGPPS11 paralog is the most abundantly expressed GGPPS in all flower tissues, except for GGPPS4 that is the most highly expressed paralog in stamens at flower developmental stage 12. The expression of GGPPS11 in flowers and GGPPS4 in anthers was also observed using promoter-GUS fusions of the respective genes (Okada et al. CITATION). [[FIGURE]]  While all paralogs are expressed in developing seeds, GGPPS11 is expressed most highly at all developmental stages and in all tissues (Fig. 9a and Supplemental Table S6). GGPPS11 is expressed at the highest level in the chalazal endosperm at pre-globular, globular and heart stages (Fig. 9b and Supplemental Table S6). All remaining paralogs are expressed in several tissues but at significantly lower levels and expression of each paralog peaks at different developmental stages. GGPPS1 is expressed most highly in the suspensor at the globular stage, GGPPS2 in the seed coat at the linear cotyledon stage, GGPPS3 in the peripheral endosperm at mature green stage, GGPPS4 in the seed coat at mature green stage, GGPPS6/7 in the embryo proper at the heart stage, GGPPS8 in the chalazal endosperm at pre-globular stage, GGPPS9 in the chalazal endosperm at the heart stage and GGPPS10 in the chalazal endosperm at the pre-globular stage (Fig. 9 and Supplemental Table S6). [[FIGURE]]  All GGPPS paralogs are also expressed in roots (Fig. 10 and Supplemental Table S6). While GGPPS11 is expressed ubiquitously at all developmental stages and in all root tissues except the procambium, its peak expression level is similar to that of GGPPS1–4, 8–10 (Fig. 10a and Supplemental Table S6). The other paralogs have diverse developmental and/or tissue-specific expression patterns. Similarly to GGPPS11, the gene for the mitochondrial GGPPS1 is expressed ubiquitously in all tissues but its expression is the strongest in the elongation zone (Fig. 10b). GGPPS2 is expressed predominantly in the endodermis, in the cortex and, to a lesser extent, in vascular tissues. GGPPS3 and GGPPS4, which encode ER-localized GGPP synthases, are expressed in the procambium and in the epidermis in root hair cells. Although GGPPS3 and GGPPS4 are expressed in the same tissues, GGPPS3 is confined to the elongation zone, while GGPPS4 is expressed in the meristematic and maturation zones. GGPPS3 expression in vascular tissues is also consistent with the promoter-GUS expression data, while expression of GGPPS4 was observed in the root tip using a promoter-GUS fusion construct (Okada et al. CITATION). GGPPS6/7 is mainly expressed in columella, lateral root cap, cortex, epidermis and vascular tissues, but not the procambium. GGPPS6/7 is the paralog that shows the strongest expression in root tissues. Expression in the columella and lateral root cap is likely resulting from GGPPS6, while GGPPS7 is expressed in the vasculature as suggested by GGPPS6 and GGPPS7 promoter-GUS expression patterns (Okada et al. CITATION; Fig. 7b). GGPPS8 is mainly expressed in the epidermis, especially in the elongation zone and in the lateral root cap, consistent with the GGPPS8 promoter-GUS expression pattern (Fig. 7b). GGPPS9 is weakly expressed, mainly in the epidermis and phloem while GGPPS10 is expressed mainly in the procambium (Fig. 10), although its expression was observed in the ground tissue using GGPPS10 promoter-GUS fusion (Fig. 7b). Together, the expression of most of the GGPPS paralogs in A. thaliana has become significantly constrained by tissue- and cell-specific transcriptional regulation. [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! The A. thaliana Col0 accession was used in this study. Plants were grown either on basic Murashige-Skoog (MS) medium (Duchefa, www.duchefa.com) containing 0.8 % w/v plant agar or on soil in a climate-controlled growth chamber under long-day conditions (16 h light/8 h dark) at 22 °C. The crt cluster responsible for the synthesis of lycopene in Erwinia uredovora has been cloned and widely used for complementation assays in E. coli. The pACCRT-BI plasmid was constructed from pACCRT-EBI (Misawa et al. CITATION) by introducing a frameshift in the BstXI site of the crtE gene encoding GGPP synthase. After digestion of pACCRT-EIB with BstXI, the overhangs were filled with the Klenow fragment of DNA polymerase I to create blunt ends. After ligation and transformation with the resulting pACCRT-BI construct, positive transformants were identified by their absence of pigmentation compared to those transformed with pACCRT-EBI in which a functional crtE protein produces GGPP to further synthesize lycopene, resulting in red colonies. pGEX-GGPPS vectors were constructed via ligation of the PCR-amplified GGPPS sequences into the BamHI (SmaI for GGPPS6) and NotI sites of the protein expression pGEX-4T-2 vector (GE Healthcare, http://www.gehealthcare.com). PCR was performed using pENTR/D-TOPO-GGPPS-3` (see Subcellular Localization of GGPPS Proteins) vectors as template and primers listed in the Supplemental Table S1. The resulting constructs consisted of the fusion between the glutathione-S-transferase (GST) and truncated GGPPSs (Fig. 4b) controlled by the tac promoter. All constructs were checked by sequencing.  E. coli cells (Invitrogen; www.invitrogen.com) were co-transformed with both pGEX-GGPPS constructs and pACCRT-BI. Transformants containing both constructs were selected on LB plates containing both ampicillin (100 μg mL−1) and chloramphenicol (25 μg mL−1) antibiotics. Positive colonies were selected and grown overnight in liquid LB. The next day, 20 mL of fresh LB cultures supplemented with the appropriate antibiotics were inoculated, grown for 3 days at 20 °C and harvested. 10 mL were used for the lycopene extraction. In brief, pelleted cells were broken by vortexing for 30 s and 700 μL of acetone were added. Samples were vortexed for 30 more seconds and then incubated in the dark at 55 °C for 15 min. The tubes were centrifuged for 15 min at 4 °C at 14,000 rpm. Supernatants were collected in glass spectrophotometer cuvettes and absorbance was measured at 472 nm. Coding sequences of A. thaliana genes for GGPPS isozymes were amplified without their stop codon (the sequences of the corresponding oligonucleotides are available in the Supplemental Table S2) from total Arabidopsis cDNA and cloned into the Gateway-compatible pENTR/D-TOPO entry vector (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com) resulting in pENTR/D-TOPO-GGPPS-3′ vectors. Constructs were checked by DNA sequencing. LR reactions were then performed to clone these cDNAs into the binary pK7FWG2.0 vector (http://gateway.psb.ugent.be; Karimi et al. CITATION). The resulting constructs pGGPPS-eGFP consisted of the GGPPS-eGFP fusions under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. Constructs were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens (strain C58C1(pMP90); Koncz and Shell CITATION) and then into wild-type Arabidopsis plants via Agrobacterium-mediated floral dip transformation (Clough and Bent CITATION). Primary transformants were selected on MS medium supplemented with kanamycin (50 μg mL−1). At least two stable lines per isozyme were selected for further experiments. These lines were subsequently transformed by floral dipping with mCherry organelle reporter constructs (Nelson et al. CITATION) as follows: GGPPS1-GFP lines with the mitochondrial reporter construct (CD3-986); GGPPS3-GFP and GGPPS4-GFP lines with the ER reporter construct (CD3-954); GGPPS2-, 6-, 7-, 8-, 9-, 10-, 11- and 12-GFP with the plastidial (CD3-994) reporter constructs. Double transformants were selected by both kanamycin (50 μg mL−1) and basta (20 μg mL−1) antibiotic resistance. Leaves of young (10–15 day old) seedlings were analyzed under a Leica SP2-AOBS confocal laser-scanning microscope. eGFP was excited at 488 nm and its emission signal was collected between 500 and 550 nm. mCherry was excited at 514 nm and its emission signal was collected between 602 and 635 nm. Chlorophyll was excited at 405 nm and its emission signal was collected between 655 and 712 nm. Plant material was collected from seven different organs, namely: roots, rosette leaves, cauline leaves, stems, flowers, seedlings and siliques. The root samples were collected from 18 day-old seedlings grown on MS medium. The rosette leaves, cauline leaves, stems, flowers and siliques were collected as a pool from 6 week-old plants grown in parallel in soil under long day conditions. The seedlings were grown on standard MS medium and collected 14 days after germination. The plant material was snap-frozen in liquid nitrogen immediately after collection and stored at −80 °C until use. RNA was isolated from plant tissues using the TRIZol reagent (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Equal RNA amounts, quantified using a NanoDrop instrument (Thermo, http://www.nanodrop.com) were treated with RQ1 RNase-Free DNase (Promega, http://www.promega.com). cDNA was synthesized in a 20 μl reaction from 1.5 μg RNA using oligo-dT primers and RevertAid™ First Strand cDNA synthesis Kit (Thermo, http://www.fermentas.com) following the manufacturer’s recommendations. The absence of genomic DNA in cDNAs was verified by PCR with primers ACT-s 5′ TCCACGAGACAACCTATAAC and ACT-a 5′ GATCTTGAGAGCTTAGAAAC, spanning the second intron of ACT2 (At3g18780) and visualized on 1 % agarose gel (data not shown). The relative quantification of transcripts (RT-qPCR) was performed with the Applied Biosystems 7500 Fast Real-Time PCR System (Applied Biosystems, http://www.appliedbiosystems.com) using a hydrolysis probe based assay (TaqMan, Roche, http://www.roche-applied-science.com) and the FastStart TaqMan®Probe Master Mix (Roche, http://www.roche-applied-science.com) with 30 ng of starting template, according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The oligonucleotides and probes used for RT-qPCR are listed in Supplemental Table S3. The experimental design included three biological replicates and three technical replicates for each reaction being carried out. A gene was considered to be expressed when the corresponding quantification cycle (Cq) value was below or equal to 35 (Karlen et al. CITATION). The primer efficiencies were estimated from the raw fluorescence data (ΔRn) for each reaction over all PCR cycles using the LinRegPCR software (Ruijter et al. CITATION). The PavrgE method (Karlen et al. CITATION) was used to calculate an average PCR efficiency (E). Valid primer efficiencies (1.75 < E < 2.25) were included in subsequent calculations. The transcript amount of each GGPPS gene was normalized based on the expression levels of three reference genes (Rieu and Powers CITATION). The reference genes, namely: PP2A (At1g13320), UBC9 (At4g27960) and ACT2 (At3g18780), were selected under the expression stability criterion across different organ types of A. thaliana (Czechowski et al. CITATION). The expression levels of the reference genes cover the range of expression of the GGPPS genes (data not shown) as indicated by the RefGenes Tool from Genevestigator® (Hruz et al. CITATION). The expression stability of the three reference genes in our experimental settings was tested using the geNorm software (http://medgen.ugent.be/~jvdesomp/genorm). All three reference genes received valid expression stability scores (data not shown) and were further used to estimate the normalization factor by calculating the geometric average (Vandesompele et al. CITATION). To compare the differences in transcript levels of the GGPPS genes between different organ samples the following formula was used:$$ NQ_{sample\,x} = \frac{{E_{GGPPSx}^{ - Cq} }}{{E_{{\text{Re} f}}^{ - Cq} }} $$where NQ sample x is calculated for each GGPPS gene and represents the transcript quantity relative to the normalization factor in one organ type. To compare the different expression of each GGPPS gene in different organs, the relative quantities were calculated. The Cq values were transformed to relative quantities (RQ) as follows: for each of the GGPPS and reference genes the Cq values corresponding to one gene in different organs were subtracted from the minimal Cq value of the respective gene (i.e., the maximal expression value) according to the formula:$$ \Updelta Cq = \hbox{min} Cq_{gene\,x} - Cq_{gene\,x} $$ $$ RQ_{gene\,x} = E^{\Updelta Cq} $$where RQ gene x is the transcript amount of one gene in a certain organ sample relative to the sample with the highest expression. The RQ gene x for each GGPPS gene was normalized as described before and the normalized relative quantities (NRQ) were calculated according to the modified Pfaffl method (Pfaffl CITATION) using the formula, which takes into accounts the different PCR efficiencies:$$ NRQ = \frac{{RQ_{GGPPS} }}{{RQ_{Ref} }} $$  The NRQ ratios were subsequently log2 transformed. The mRNA levels for each GGPPS gene across different organs are relative to the highest expression potential for the respective gene and are normalized to the reference genes. The data represent the mean and standard error of three biological replicates. To clone the transcriptional regulatory elements the sequences located upstream of the ATG start codon were amplified by PCR using A. thaliana genomic DNA as template. In brief, the genomic DNA was extracted from seedlings using the Nucleon Phytopure system (Amersham Biosciences, http://www.amershambiosciences.com) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. To amplify the fragment of interest, the Phusion High-Fidelity DNA polymerase kit (Finnzymes, http://www.finnzymes.fi) was used. The oligonucleotides used for the amplification can be found in the Supplemental Table S4. The amplicons were cloned into the entry vector pENTR/D-TOPO (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com) according to the manufacturer’s instructions resulting in pENTR/D-TOPO-GGPPSpro vectors. Plant expression vectors were obtained by performing the Gateway LR reaction (Invitrogen, www.invitrogen.com) according to the manufacturer’s instructions, between the entry vectors and the GUS-containing reporter vector pHGWFS7 (http://gateway.psb.ugent.be/; Karimi et al. CITATION) resulting in pGGPPSpro:GUS vectors. The Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58C1 (pMP90; Koncz and Shell CITATION) was transformed with the resulting binary vectors and transgenes were subsequently introduced into Arabidopsis via the floral dip method (Clough and Bent CITATION). At least two stable lines per isozyme were selected for further experiments. Plant material was harvested and submerged in the X-Gluc (5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-beta-d-glucuronic acid) solution, containing 1 mg mL−1 X-Gluc, 100 mM sodium phosphate buffer pH 7.0, 0.2 % v/v Triton-X and 10 mM EDTA. The samples were incubated in the dark at 37 °C until blue staining became visible (approximately 20 h). The chlorophyll was removed during serial washing with ethanol. The tissues were cleared by submerging in Histoclear solution (Brunschwig, http://www.brunschwig-ch.com) for several hours. Plants were then photographed.  GGPPS transcript levels were determined from AtGenExpress microarray experiments encompassing various organs at different developmental stages of Arabidopsis (Schmid et al. CITATION). For the specific root tissues expression profiles, the microarray dataset generated by Birnbaum et al. (CITATION) was used. For the seed expression profiles, the microarray data generated by Le et al. (CITATION) were analyzed. The corresponding microarray expression data were downloaded from the Bio-Array Resource website (BAR, http://bar.utoronto.ca; Toufighi et al. CITATION). For all the experimental conditions considered in this analysis, except of Figs. 8b, 9b and 10b, the expression values were retrieved in log2 scale. Genes with an expression value below a threshold of 2.5 were treated as absent (Schmid et al. CITATION).
