!~ABS~! Salicylic acid (SA) is central for the defense of plants to pathogens and abiotic stress. SA is synthesized in chloroplasts from chorismic acid by an isochorismate synthase (ICS1); SA biosynthesis is negatively regulated by autoinhibitory feedback at ICS1. Genetic studies indicated that the multidrug and toxin extrusion transporter ENHANCED DISEASE SUSCEPTIBILITY5 (EDS5) of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) is necessary for SA accumulation after biotic and abiotic stress, but so far it is not understood how EDS5 controls the biosynthesis of SA. Here, we show that EDS5 colocalizes with a marker of the chloroplast envelope and that EDS5 functions as a multidrug and toxin extrusion-like transporter in the export of SA from the chloroplast to the cytoplasm in Arabidopsis, where it controls the innate immune response. The location at the chloroplast envelope supports a model of the effect of EDS5 on SA biosynthesis: in the eds5 mutant, stress-induced SA is trapped in the chloroplast and inhibits its own accumulation by autoinhibitory feedback.
!~RES~! Free and conjugated SA accumulate in the leaves of Arabidopsis after stimulation with UV light (Fig. 1A), as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). Surprisingly the increase in free and conjugated SA is not measurable in the chloroplast fraction (Fig. 1B). This might be explained by rapid export of SA from the chloroplast to the cytoplasm. Thus, we predict that (1) EDS5 is located at the chloroplast envelope; (2) mutants with impaired EDS5 function are unable to export SA; and therefore (3) in these mutants, SA is trapped in the chloroplast and inhibits its synthesis by negative feedback. To test this hypothesis, EDS5 was localized by the stable expression of fluorescent EDS5-yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) under the control of the constitutive cauliflower mosaic virus 35S (35S) promoter (35S::EDS5-YFP) in transgenic Arabidopsis plants that were cotransformed with the chloroplast marker 35S::RecA-CFP (see “Materials and Methods”). Confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) of mesophyll protoplasts resulted in RecA-cyan fluorescent protein (CFP) fluorescence overlapping with the autofluorescence of chlorophyll in plastids (Fig. 2A). In contrast, the fluorescence of EDS5-YFP localized to the plastid periphery while chlorophyll autofluorescence and RecA-CFP fluorescence appeared at the plastid center. This suggested that EDS5-YFP is localized at the plastid envelope (Fig. 2A). The envelope localization of EDS5 was confirmed by the transformation of mesophyll protoplasts of 35S::EDS5-YFP plants with the chloroplast envelope marker construct prCIA5-TM2-RFP (CITATION), allowing for colocalization. The fluorescence of prCIA5-TM2-red fluorescent protein (RFP) overlapped perfectly with that of EDS5-YFP, indicating a localization of the latter to the chloroplast envelope (Fig. 2B). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The functionality of EDS5 as an SA transporter was tested biochemically in transport assays and using a genetic approach. First, we loaded isolated chloroplasts with radiolabeled SA followed by immediate quantification (Fig. 3A). As expected, an increase in [14C]SA uptake could only be observed in plants expressing EDS after UV exposure or in transgenic plants overexpressing EDS5 (35S::EDS5). No accumulation of [14C]SA was observed in chloroplast from eds5 mutants (Fig. 3A). Second, to further support this finding, we quantified the simultaneous export of [14C]SA and [3H]3-indoleacetic acid (IAA), the latter used here as an unspecific control, from loaded entire mesophyll protoplasts. In agreement with the results obtained so far, only UV-treated or 35S::EDS5 protoplasts displayed reduced [14C]SA export over the plasma membrane, most probably due to enhanced chloroplast trapping. Interestingly, no significant difference was found for the [3H]IAA control substrate, indicating a high degree of transport specificity (Fig. 3B). [[FIGURE]] Further evidence for a direct transport activity was obtained by expressing EDS5 in bakers’ yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain JK93da; CITATION). Like other transporters (CITATION), EDS5-GFP was localized to punctate, raft-like structures surrounding the yeast plasma membrane (Fig. 4A). Localization at the plasma membrane was also confirmed by membrane fractionation. A wide overlap with the plasma membrane marker H+-ATPase was observed in membrane fractions separated on Suc density gradients followed by western-blot analysis (Fig. 4B). A plasma membrane location for EDS5 made it possible to test the transport of SA in whole yeast cells (CITATION). However, in analogy to chloroplast experiments, export experiments were hindered by the rapid efflux of loaded radioactive SA from yeast cells. Therefore, SA loading assays were used (CITATION). Vector control yeast cells (control in Fig. 4C) showed a negative net retention of radiolabeled SA, indicating a strong endogenous efflux activity on the yeast plasma membrane (Fig. 4C). However, both hemagglutinin (HA)- and GFP-tagged versions of EDS5 exported less SA than the vector control, although only EDS5-GFP transport was significantly different from the vector control. This finding indicates that EDS5 functions as an SA transporter at the yeast plasma membrane but in an uptake direction. As shown for protoplast assays (Fig. 3), the usage of IAA as an unspecific control in the same transport assay demonstrated EDS5 specificity for SA in yeast. In contrast to SA, IAA was loaded into yeast cells, arguing for the absence of an efficient IAA export system at the yeast plasma membrane (CITATION) and/or a different membrane permeability or a compartmentation of IAA. [[FIGURE]] In order to characterize EDS5 as a MATE-like transporter that is known to be secondarily energized, mainly by proton gradients, we repeated SA loading assays in the absence and presence of the ionophores nigericin and carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenyl hydrazone (CCCP), known to destroy proton gradients but with different preferences for other monovalent cations. Both nigericin and CCCP strongly revert negative net SA retention (export) in vector control and EDS5-GFP yeast into a net loading, supporting that SA export over the yeast plasma membrane depends on an electrochemical, most likely proton, gradient (Supplemental Fig. S1). However, the strong yeast-endogenous SA efflux activity hindered demonstration of a secondary-active, MATE-typic energization of EDS5 in yeast using ionophores. In summary, chloroplast, protoplast, and yeast experiments demonstrate that EDS5 functions as a facilitator of SA transport. Demonstration of EDS5 functionality in the extrusion of SA would require the quantification of labeled SA exported from chloroplasts. However, it was not possible to measure the export of SA from loaded chloroplasts because the labeled SA was very rapidly released by the plastids during the washing procedure. Therefore, we searched for an alternative strategy that allowed us to increase SA levels in the chloroplasts and bypass the negative feedback regulation of SA accumulation. To that end, a genetic strategy was designed whereby a chloroplast-targeted, ethanol-inducible gene encoding a chloroplast-targeted bifunctional chimeric protein referred to as SA synthase (pSAS) was engineered into eds5 mutants and EDS5-overexpressing plants (CITATION). pSAS consists of isochorismate synthase fused to isochorismate pyruvate lyase from Pseudomonas aeruginosa (CITATION). Plants harboring pSAS were previously shown to produce high levels of SA in the absence of any stimulus (CITATION). One day after induction by ethanol, SA accumulated to similar levels in leaves of both eds5/pSAS mutants and 35S::EDS5/pSAS plants (Fig. 5A). However, the subcellular distribution of the newly synthesized SA differed dramatically. The chloroplasts of eds5/pSAS mutants contained increased levels of SA, whereas basal levels of SA were observed in the chloroplasts of 35S::EDS5/pSAS plants (Fig. 5B). SA cannot be exported from the chloroplasts in the absence of functional EDS5, demonstrating the function of this MATE-like transporter in this process. [[FIGURE]] Our finding that both free and conjugated SA accumulated in chloroplasts of UV-treated leaves or in untreated eds5/pSAS mutants deserves a comment. So far, although various glucosyltransferases have been described in chloroplasts (CITATION; CITATION), no SA conjugating system has been reported for this organelle. Most of the SA is presumably converted into SA O-β-glucoside by an SA glucosyltransferase likely to be located in the cytosol (for review, see CITATION). For the other reported forms of SA conjugates, including methyl-SA, methyl SA O-β-glucoside, and salicyloyl Glc ester, the site of conjugation is unknown. Our results clearly show the occurrence of a conjugated form of SA in chloroplasts, but further work will now be needed to determine the chemical nature of the conjugated forms as well as the conjugating enzyme. Taken together, our results support the hypothesis that EDS5 is a MATE-like SA transporter located at the chloroplast envelope (Fig. 2), where it functions in the export of the innate immune signal SA (Fig. 5). The lack of SA synthesis in eds5 mutants might be explained by a possible autoinhibitory feedback regulation of SA biosynthesis in the chloroplast, but the details of this inhibition remain to be determined (a model is presented in Fig. 5C). This study provides a long-awaited answer to the question of the hitherto unknown function of the MATE-like transporter EDS5 in the control of SA during the innate immune responses in plants. It is important to note that plants obviously have recruited proteins, such as EDS5, for the control of innate immunity at the chloroplast that have structural homologs in prokaryotes, archea, and lower eukaryotes. The regulation of EDS5 in response to the perception of a wide number of biotic and abiotic stimuli all leading to SA accumulation now warrants further studies.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) accession Columbia-0 seeds were grown on a pasteurized soil mix of humus and Perlite (3:1). Seeds were kept at 4°C for 2 d and then transferred to the growth chamber. Plants were grown during 3 weeks in a 12-h-light/12-h-dark cycle with 60% to 70% relative humidity and a day temperature of 20°C to 22°C and a night temperature of 16°C to 18°C. Wild-type plants were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre. The Arabidopsis mutant eds5 used in all the experiments was eds5-3 (CITATION). Plants were exposed to UV-C light (254 nm) for 20 min at a distance of 30 cm using a tl-900 8-W lamp (CAMAG; http://www.camag.com; CITATION) and then placed in continuous light for 24 h. SA was determined in leaves or in the chloroplasts isolated from leaves 24 h after UV irradiation. The fractionation into chloroplast and cytosol and chloroplast isolation were carried out on leaves of 3-week-old Arabidopsis plants as described previously (CITATION). Chloroplasts were prepared as described previously (CITATION). They were then incubated in the extraction solution containing labeled [7-14C]SA, with specific activity of 47 Ci mmol−1. After 4 min at 4°C, the chloroplasts were filtered using AR200 silicone oil and subsequently placed in a vial for radioactive counting. SA extraction and measurement were performed as described previously (CITATION). The EDS5 coding sequence was amplified with primers eds5-11 (5′-CACCATGCTAATCAAATCCCAAAGA-3′) and eds5-12 (5′-AATGGATTTAATCTTCTCCAC-3′) and cloned into the pENTR/D-TOPO vector, giving plasmid pENTR-107. This construct was recombined with Gateway vector pB7YWG2 (Plant Systems Biology, Ghent University) to give the pB109 (35S:EDS5:YFP) construct. The AtRecA sequence was amplified from genomic DNA using primers AtRecA-1 (5′-CACCATGGATTCACAGCTAGTCTTG-3′) and AtRecA-2 (5′-ATCGAATTCAGAACTGATTTT-3′). The resulting PCR fragment was cloned into the pENTR/D-TOPO vector to give the pENTR-RecA construct. This plasmid was recombined with pH7CWG2, leading to plasmid pH301 (35S:RecA:CFP). 35S:EDS5:YFP and 35S:RecA:CFP double transformants were generated by using a mixture of Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 cells containing the plasmids pB109 and pH301. eds5 plants were transformed using the floral dip method (CITATION) and analyzed for complementation (Supplemental Fig. S2). The EDS5 coding sequence was amplified using the primers EDS5-s (5′-CGAATTCATGCTAATCAAATCCCAAAGATT-3′) and EDS5-as (5′-ACACCCGGGCTAAATGGATTTAATCTTCTCCAC-3′). This PCR fragment was cloned into the pGemT-Easy vector to give the pGemT-EDS5 construct. Then, EDS5 was cloned into the pART7 vector containing the 35S promoter and the OCS terminator, using the restriction enzyme EcoRI, to give the pART7-EDS5 construct. Subsequently, by digestion with NotI, the fragment 35S::EDS5-OCS was cloned into the binary vector pART27 and introduced into A. tumefaciens strain GV3101. eds5 plants were transformed using the floral dip method (CITATION) and analyzed for complementation (Supplemental Fig. S1). EDS5 cDNA was recombined from pENTR-107 with yeast Gateway shuttle vectors, pGPD:GFP and pGPD:HA (Plant Systems Biology, Ghent University), to give pGPD:EDS5-GFP and pGPD:EDS5-HA (EDS5-GFP and EDS5-HA) constructs. The alc gene expression system (CITATION) was used to express the plastid-targeted pSAS encoding a chimeric salicylate synthase (CITATION) under the control of an ethanol-inducible promoter. The alc gene expression system is composed of two elements: the alcR encoding the transcription factor (ALCR) and a promoter derived from alcA (alcohol dehydrogenase I) from Aspergillus nidulans. alcR controls the activation of the alcA promoter in the presence of ethanol. To this end, a SalI fragment containing pSAS was cloned into the vector pACN digested with SalI. The resulting AlcA-driven expression cassette was cloned as a HindIII fragment into the HindIII-digested binary plasmid BinSRNACatN. The resulting BinSRNA-pSAS plasmid was transformed into A. tumefaciens strain GV3101 by the floral dip method (CITATION). Protoplast isolation and transfection were carried out as described (CITATION; CITATION). Protoplasts were simultaneously loaded with [14C]SA and the auxin, IAA ([3H]IAA), as an unspecific control. External radioactivity was removed by Percoll gradient centrifugation, and SA/IAA export was quantified by silicon oil centrifugation as described previously (CITATION). Relative export is calculated from exported radioactivity as follows: (radioactivity in the supernatant at time [t] = 10 min) − (radioactivity in the supernatant at t = 0) × 100%/(radioactivity in the supernatant at t = 0 min). Yeast transport assays with [14C]SA and [3H]IAA ([5-3H]IAA, with specific activity of 1 mCi mmol−1 [American Radiolabeled Chemicals]) were performed as described by CITATION; the ionophore concentrations were 1 μg mL−1 nigericin and 2 μm CCCP. CFP, YFP, and RFP fluorescence were detected using an excitation of 458 nm with a 468- to 510-nm band-pass filter, an excitation of 514 nm with a 524- to 550-nm band-pass filter, and an excitation of 561 nm with a 571- to 610-nm band-pass filter, respectively. Autofluorescence of chloroplasts was visualized using an excitation of 633 nm with a 680- to 730-nm band-pass filter. CLSM was performed on a Leica TCS SP5 AOBS confocal microscope. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession number AF416569. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Effect of ionophores. Supplemental Figure S2. Complementation analysis.
