!~ABS~! This study characterizes the phosphorylated pathway of Ser biosynthesis (PPSB) in Arabidopsis thaliana by targeting phosphoserine phosphatase (PSP1), the last enzyme of the pathway. Lack of PSP1 activity delayed embryo development, leading to aborted embryos that could be classified as early curled cotyledons. The embryo-lethal phenotype of psp1 mutants could be complemented with PSP1 cDNA under the control of Pro35S (Pro35S:PSP1). However, this construct, which was poorly expressed in the anther tapetum, did not complement mutant fertility. Microspore development in psp1.1/psp1.1 Pro35S:PSP1 arrested at the polarized stage. The tapetum from these lines displayed delayed and irregular development. The expression of PSP1 in the tapetum at critical stages of microspore development suggests that PSP1 activity in this cell layer is essential in pollen development. In addition to embryo death and male sterility, conditional psp1 mutants displayed a short-root phenotype, which was reverted in the presence of Ser. A metabolomic study demonstrated that the PPSB plays a crucial role in plant metabolism by affecting glycolysis, the tricarboxylic acid cycle, and the biosynthesis of amino acids. We provide evidence of the crucial role of the PPSB in embryo, pollen, and root development and suggest that this pathway is an important link connecting primary metabolism with development.
!~RES~! In The Arabidopsis Information Resource database (http://www.arabidopsis.org), we found a single gene (At1g18640) coding for PSP (PSP1). This gene was previously cloned, and the encoded protein possesses in vitro PSP activity (CITATION). However, an exhaustive study of its expression pattern, which could give clues about its functions, was lacking. Analysis of the PSP1 promoter using the promomer tool (CITATION) revealed that the promoter regions were significantly enriched in consensus sequences present in important genes regulating anther development, such as the floral homeotic genes AGAMOUS and AGAMOUS2 (see Supplemental Table 1 online). An in silico analysis of PSP1 expression based on microarray databases (http://www.bar.utoronto.ca/efp/cgi-bin/efpWeb.cgi and https://www.genevestigator.com/gv/) revealed a constitutive pattern of expression through the main Arabidopsis development stages (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). At the organ level, PSP1 displayed a high expression level in hypocotyls, early stages of root, flower (stages 9 to 12), seed and embryo (globular stage) development, and in shoot apices (vegetative, inflorescence, and transition apex). We assessed the expression patterns of PSP1 by RT-PCR. At both seedling and adult stages, PSP1 was expressed in all organs studied, and no significant differences in expression between organs were found (Figure 2A). When PSP1 expression was studied under different growth conditions, an 8-h exposure to darkness induced the gene expression in the aerial parts, but not in roots, whereas longer exposures (24 h) repressed PSP1 expression on both roots and aerial parts (Figure 2B). Ser, the product of PSP1 activity, did not repress PSP1 expression in the light, but repressed it after 8-h exposure to darkness in aerial parts. [[FIGURE]] Analysis of promoter-β-glucuronidase (GUS) fusions confirmed that PSP1 is expressed in all organs studied, but it displayed a highly specific cell tissue pattern (Figure 3A). At the seedling stage, PSP1 was expressed mainly in the vegetative apex, veins, the distal zone of cotyledons, and in stomata. In roots, PSP1 was expressed mainly in the transition zone between roots and shoots, along the root vasculature, in the proximal part of the meristems and in the root cap columella. At the adult stage, PSP1 transcripts were detected in all organs studied, but once again, a very specific cell tissue pattern was observed. In flowers, GUS activity was associated mainly with anthers, stigma, and pollen grains (Figure 3A). In leaves, PSP1 was expressed mainly in the distal zone and veins. To further confirm and extend the analysis of the PSP1 expression pattern, we stably expressed a PSP1-GFP (for green fluorescent protein) protein fusion construct under the control of the PSP1 promoter (ProPSP:PSP1) in wild-type plants. GFP fluorescence corroborated the cell tissue–specific PSP1 expression pattern in the roots and reproductive organs (Figure 3B). In seedling roots, PSP1 was clearly expressed in the entire meristematic zone. In flowers, PSP1 was expressed in pollen, anthers, and carpels. In later developmental stages, PSP1 was expressed in silique valves and seeds, especially in embryos. [[FIGURE]] Using a 35S-PSP1-GFP construct, CITATION demonstrated that PSP1 was localized in plastids. Our results employing the native PSP1 promoter for intracellular visualization of PSP1 corroborated that it is localized in both chloroplasts and nongreen plastids in leaves (Figure 3C). In roots, PSP1 also displayed a plastidial localization. Similar results were obtained when the PSP1-GFP construct was expressed under the control of the 35S promoter (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). In order to shed light on the in vivo function of PSP1 in Arabidopsis, a reverse genetic approach was followed. Two independent T-DNA insertion mutant lines affecting PSP1 were identified in the mutant collections (Salk-062391 and GK877F12), but only the Salk-062391 line could be reconfirmed. This line was named psp1.1. The presence and genomic location of the T-DNA insertion was verified by PCR amplification of genomic DNA and by sequencing of the PCR products. The T-DNA insertion was localized in the fourth intron, 1153 nucleotides downstream of the start codon of the PSP1 gene (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). Genotyping plants from the original seed stock identified only wild-type (PSP1/PSP1) and heterozygous (PSP1/psp1.1) individuals, with no visual phenotype seen. An analysis of the segregation of the mutant psp1.1 allele was conducted in a population of 264 seeds obtained from heterozygous PSP1/psp1.1 plants. No homozygous individuals (psp1.1/psp1.1) could be rescued based on PCR genotyping (Table 1). The segregation analysis of the population displayed a 1:2 ratio (PSP1/PSP1:PSP1/psp1.1; χ2 = 1.38; P > 0.05), which is typical of a Mendelian segregation with a lethal phenotype for psp1.1/psp1.1 individuals. To corroborate these results, a second segregation analysis was conducted based on the kanamycin resistance conferred by the T-DNA insertion in the mutant allele. Of 1183 seedlings produced from heterozygous PSP1/psp1.1 plants, 66.1% were kanamycin resistant and 33.9% were kanamycin sensitive (Table 1). These results do not match the expected 75% resistant individuals for viable psp1.1/psp1.1 mutants. On the contrary, the observed results match a 1:2 segregation (PSP1/PSP1:PSP1/psp1.1; χ2 = 0.17; P > 0.05), indicating a lethal phenotype associated with the mutant psp1.1 allele. PSP1/psp1.1 plants were visually indistinguishable from the wild type, indicating the recessive nature of the mutant allele. Further evidence for the role of PSP1 was obtained by analyzing point mutations in psp1 alleles, which were identified by the Seattle Arabidopsis TILLING (for targeting-induced local lesions in genomes) Project (http://tilling.fhcrc.org/). A new psp1 allele was identified (psp1.2), which resulted in the substitution of Ser-178 for Phe (S178F). According to SIFT (for sorting intolerance from tolerant) software analysis, this mutation is predicted to affect protein functions (SIFT score < 0.05). Specifically, the Ser-178-Phe mutation, with the highest position-specific scoring matrix score of all the putative mutants identified, is situated in the PSP1 conserved active site, at an essential position for catalytic activity, suggesting that it could be lethal. In a population of 58 individuals coming from heterozygous PSP1/psp1.2 mother plants, no homozygous psp1.2/psp1.2 could be identified by genotyping. Once again, the segregation analysis matched a 1:2 ratio (PSP1/PSP1:PSP1/psp1.2; χ2 = 0.42; P > 0.05) corroborating the essential role of PSP1 in early Arabidopsis developmental stages. To investigate whether the lethality associated with psp1 mutations is due to the male gametophyte, female gametophyte, or embryo defects, reciprocal outcrosses of PSP1/psp1.1 plants as male/female parent (donor/recipient) and the wild type as female/male parent (recipient/donor) were performed, and the segregation of the mutant allele was studied based on the antibiotic resistance conferred by the T-DNA insertion (Table 1). The results indicate that the male and female mutant gametophytes were transmitted with an efficiency of 79 and 86.4%, respectively, which provides evidence that psp1.1 triggers an embryo-lethal phenotype. To further confirm this, siliques from heterozygous PSP1/psp1.1 plants were dissected at different developmental stages. From 8 d after pollination (DAP), we observed a population of abnormal seeds, which was randomly distributed along the length of the silique (Figure 4A). At 15 DAP, mutant seeds were white and started to deflate. At 22 DAP, mutant seeds turned dark brown and were completely deflated. Segregation analysis of a population of 5064 seeds obtained from heterozygous PSP1/psp1.1 plants revealed a 1:4 ratio (20.9% mutant:79.1% normal seeds; χ2 = 2.52; P > 0.05). This ratio agrees with the expected 20.4%:79.6% ratio for psp1.1/psp1.1:PSP1PSP1+PSP1psp1.1 calculated according to the transmission efficiency for the PSP1 and psp1.1 alleles (Table 1). To characterize the nature of the seed nonviability, we examined the embryos in developing siliques of heterozygous PSP1/psp1.1 plants (Figure 4B). At 2 DAP, all the embryos examined reached a similar developmental stage (octant stage according to CITATION). However, at 5 DAP, some of the embryos showed delayed development (early globular versus triangular stage). According to microarray databases, PSP1 expression is maximal at the globular stage (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). The developmentally delayed embryos could be assigned to mutant seeds at 7 DAP (heart versus mid torpedo) and 10 DAP (heart versus early cotyledon stage). The terminal aborted embryos (15 DAP) were albino and could be classified as early curled cotyledons (L1) according to the SeedGenes database (http://www.seedgenes.org). PCR-based genotyping analysis revealed that the aborted embryos were psp1.1/psp1.1 individuals. [[FIGURE]] In order to corroborate the phenotype-genotype correlation of the psp1.1 mutation, we transformed PSP1/psp1.1 plants with the construct ProPSP:PSP1. We were able to demonstrate complementation of the embryo-lethal phenotype of psp1.1/psp1.1 individuals by obtaining homozygous psp1.1/psp1.1 plants in the segregating population (Figure 5). [[FIGURE]] In the adult stage, transgenic psp1.1/psp1.1 ProPSP:PSP1 plants were fertile and visually indistinguishable from the wild type. However, when PSP1/psp1.1 plants were transformed with a PSP1-GFP cDNA under the control of the 35S promoter (Pro35S:PSP1), the resulting homozygous psp1.1/psp1.1 transgenic lines in the segregating population were sterile, producing small siliques with no seeds (Figures 5A and 5B). A PSP1 overdose effect was not the cause of the observed sterility phenotype since the wild type expressing Pro35S:PSP1 was fertile (Figures 5A and 5B). As the 35S promoter exhibits very low expression, or none, in the Arabidopsis tapetum (CITATION; CITATION), we performed an ontogenic serial analysis of anther and pollen development from psp1.1/psp1.1 Pro35S:PSP1 plants compared with wild-type and psp1.1/psp1.1 ProPSP:PSP1 plants. For that purpose, floral buds were classified from stages 7 to 12 according to the landmark events described by CITATION and analyzed by transmission electron microscopy (Figure 6A). In the psp1.1/psp1.1 Pro35S:PSP1 anthers, tetrads of microspores were formed (stage 7 according to CITATION) and progressed in their development till the polarized microspore stage (stage 9). These initial steps of microspore development in psp1.1/psp1.1 Pro35S:PSP1 were similar to those observed in the wild type. However, after the polarized microspore stage, psp1.1/psp1.1 Pro35S:PSP1 microspores initiated a degeneration process characterized by detachment of microspore protoplasm from the cell wall. At the end of the maturation process (stage 12), most of psp1.1/psp1.1 Pro35S:PSP1 pollen grains showed partially shrunken or completely collapsed protoplasm. As in the wild type, pollen from psp1.1/psp1.1 ProPSP:PSP1 anthers developed and maturated normally (Figure 6C; see Supplemental Figure 5 online). As a consequence of the pollen degeneration, anther locules from psp1.1/psp1.1 Pro35S:PSP1 plants were almost empty at the late stages of pollen development compared with those of the wild type or psp1.1/psp1.1 ProPSP:PSP1 (see Supplemental Figure 6 online). To confirm which step of gametophyte development was affected by psp1.1 mutation, we performed Hoechst staining of microspore nuclei from psp1.1/psp1.1 Pro35S:PSP1 plants at different developmental stages (Figure 6B). For this experiment, the most normally shaped microspores at the last stages of development were selected since most of them were seriously malformed. Nucleus staining corroborated that tetrad and polarized microspore development in psp1.1/psp1.1 Pro35S:PSP1 anthers was normal but that subsequent to the polarized microspore stage, development was arrested and no bicellular or tricellular pollen was found. These results indicate that microspores from psp1.1/psp1.1 Pro35S:PSP1 are unable to undergo the double mitosis necessary to reach the mature pollen stage. Scanning electron microscopy revealed that mature pollen from the psp1.1/psp1.1 Pro35S:PSP1 line was shrunken and collapsed and unable to germinate when cultured in vitro (Figure 6C). [[FIGURE]] Analysis of anther development indicated that the tapetal cell layer was formed in psp1.1/psp1.1 Pro35S:PSP anthers, but tapetum cells displayed irregular development, with partially shrunken protoplasm that was detached from the cell wall at critical stages of pollen development (stages 9 and 10 according to CITATION) compared with wild-type cells (Figure 6D). This may indicate a loss of turgor in the tapetum cells. It is important to note that pollen in psp1.1/psp1.1 Pro35S:PSP1 anthers initiated the degeneration process at those developmental stages (Figure 6A). A delay in the programmed cell death of the tapetum layer was also observed, since this layer was still present at developmental stage 12 while it was absent in wild-type or psp1.1/psp1.1 ProPSP:PSP1 anthers (Figure 6D; see Supplemental Figure 6 online). The observed morphological alteration in the tapetum of psp1.1/psp1.1 Pro35S:PSP1 anthers correlated with the expression of PSP1 in this cell layer, specifically at stage 9 (Figure 6E; see Supplemental Figure 7 online). PSP1 was also clearly expressed in pollen, mainly in stage 12 and beyond (Figure 6E; see Supplemental Figure 7 online). We next conducted segregation analysis of self-fertilized PSP1/psp1.1 plants that were homozygous for constructs Pro35S:PSP1 and ProPSP:PSP1. Based on PCR genotyping, and unlike the segregation of self-fertilized PSP1/psp1.1 plants, the segregation of PSP1/psp1.1 Pro35S:PSP1 displayed a typical Mendelian 1:2:1 ratio (PSP1/PSP1:PSP1/psp1.1:psp1.1/psp1.1; χ2 = 4.13, P > 0.05) (Table 1). The same was true for the segregation of self-fertilized PSP1/psp1.1 ProPSP:PSP1 (χ2 = 0.7, P > 0.05; Table 1). Assuming a hypothesis of male sterility associated with the psp1.1 allele, we should expect psp1.1/psp1.1 Pro35S:PSP1-GFP individuals to be sterile and psp1.1/psp1.1 ProPSP:PSP1 to be fertile. In both cases, the observed results agreed with the expected calculations according to the transmission efficiency for the PSP1 and psp1.1 alleles (Figure 7). For instance, in the segregation analysis of PSP1/psp1.1 Pro35S:PSP1, we obtained 18.8% sterile homozygous individuals, which agreed with the expected 20.4%. In the segregation analysis of psp1.1/psp1.1 ProPSP:PSP1, we obtained 26% fertile homozygous individuals, which almost perfectly matched the expected 25%. Based on kanamycin resistance, the segregation analysis of both self-fertilized PSP1/psp1.1 Pro35S:PSP1 and PSP1/psp1.1 ProPSP:PSP1 matched the 1:3 ratio (sensitive:resistant, χ2 = 2.25 and 0.48, respectively, P > 0.05), unlike the 1:2 ratio observed in the PSP1/psp1.1 segregation analysis. [[FIGURE]] To study the function of PSP1 in the vegetative development, we obtained six independent conditional psp1.1/psp1.1 mutant lines from the segregating population of transformed PSP1/psp1.1 plants with a PSP1-GFP construct under the control of the inducible heat shock promoter HS18.2 (ProHSP18.2:PSP1). Based on the induction pattern, two lines, which showed the lowest protein background expression level under noninduced conditions, were selected for further analysis (Figure 8A). [[FIGURE]] In plates and under noninduced conditions, psp1.1/psp1.1 ProHSP18.2:PSP1 (conditional psp1.1/psp1.1 mutants) showed no significant difference in fresh weight (FW) of the aerial parts of the plant but the root FW was drastically reduced compared with the wild type (see Supplemental Figure 8 online). This reduction in root FW was associated with a short-root phenotype (Figures 8B to 8D), which corresponds well with the specific expression pattern of PSP1 in root meristems (Figures 3A and 3B). The root growth inhibition of the conditional psp1.1/psp1.1 mutants was rescued by both heat shock induction of PSP1 and Ser supply to the growth medium (Figures 8B to 8D). Consequently, both treatments also recovered normal root FW values compared with controls (see Supplemental Figure 8 online). Further evidence for the role of PSP1 in root development is provided by the phenotypic analysis of transgenic lines with reduced PSP1 expression. For this purpose, we used artificial microRNA (amiRNA) lines. These lines phenocopied the short-root phenotype (Figure 9) and the Ser rescue of root growth of conditional psp1.1/psp1.1 mutants (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] At the adult stage, the six conditional psp1.1/psp1.1 mutant lines analyzed showed a sterile phenotype before induction and were fertile after heat shock treatment (Figure 5), thus confirming the essentiality of PSP1 for embryo and/or anther development. However, unlike the short-root phenotype, it was not possible to complement the sterile phenotype of these conditional psp1.1/psp1.1 mutants by Ser supply to the growth medium (data not shown). In order to further test the function of PSP1 in embryo development, ovules of noninduced conditional psp1.1/psp1.1 mutants were cross-pollinated with pollen from heterozygous PSP1/psp1.1 plants. As in heterozygous PSP1/psp1.1 plants, a population of aborted seeds with abnormal embryo development could be observed. In this case, the segregation analysis of 435 seeds revealed a 1:1 ratio (48% mutant:52% normal seeds; χ2 = 0.66; P > 0.05) as expected. PSP activity was increased by 75% in the wild type expressing Pro35S:PSP1 (Oex) and reduced by 57% in amiRNA lines compared with controls (58.5 ± 2.2, 14.5 ± 1.2, and 33.3 ± 4.8 µmol Pi mg protein−1 h−1 in Oex, amiRNA, and the wild type, respectively). The root growth rate in the Oex did not significantly differ from that of the wild type (Figure 9). However, metabolomic analysis revealed a clearly altered metabolite content in both amiRNA and Oex plants compared with the wild type (Table 2; see Supplemental Table 2 online). In the aerial part of both amiRNAs and Oex plants, total amino acid increased compared with the wild type, but Oex plants showed the greatest increase (27% versus 61%, respectively). In roots, metabolite changes differed from those found in the aerial parts and even occasionally, showed an inverse trend. In this organ, amiRNA lines displayed a greater increase in total amino acid levels compared with the wild type (32% versus 15% increase, respectively). Given that no perfect inverse correlation of metabolite levels between Oex and amiRNA lines was found, we focused on either those metabolites that significantly changed more than 1.5 times in only one of the lines (overexpressed or underexpressed) compared with the wild type or those changes in which the Oex/amiRNA ratio was higher than 1.5 or lower than 0.5. In aerial parts, significant increases in Pro and Orn were noted in Oex lines, while Trp increased in amiRNA lines compared with the wild type (Table 2). A clear significant increase was also found in organic acids participating in either glycolysis or in the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle (citric, glyceric, fumaric, and malic) in the amiRNA lines (but not the Oex lines) in comparison to the wild type. Regarding sugars and sugar alcohols, galactinol, myoinositol, maltose, and raffinose were significantly increased in the Oex lines compared with the wild type. By contrast, 1-O-methyl glucopyranoside significantly increased in amiRNA lines compared with the wild type. In roots, a change in the Trp levels was observed, being significantly increased in amiRNA but decreased in Oex lines compared with the wild type (Table 2). A drastic reduction in the glyceric acid level was found in the Oex plants, while the level of this metabolite was not significantly altered in the amiRNA plants. By contrast, other glycolytic intermediates, such as Fru-6-P and Glc-6-P, increased in the Oex lines. Finally, Ser levels increased in both aerial parts and roots of both amiRNAs and Oex plants. Neither the total soluble protein and starch contents of roots and aerial parts of the Oex lines nor the total soluble protein content of the amiRNA lines in roots and aerial parts were significantly altered in comparison to the wild type (Table 2). However, the starch content of amiRNA lines was increased by 40% in the aerial parts in comparison to the wild type.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana seeds (ecotype Columbia 0, Col-er 105) were supplied by the European Arabidopsis Stock Center (CITATION). Unless stated otherwise, seeds were sown on 0.8% agar plates containing one-fifth-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with Gamborg vitamins as previously described (CITATION). Some plates were supplemented with 0.1 mM Ser as indicated in the legends to the figures. The optimal concentration of Ser was previously determined (CITATION). For the selection of PSP1 transgenic plants, half-strength MS plates supplemented with 0.5% Suc and appropriate selection markers were used. Some plantlets and seeds were also grown in greenhouse conditions as described elsewhere (CITATION). Where indicated, conditional psp1.1/psp1.1 mutants were treated for 45 min at 37°C daily before and after pollination. All primers used in this work are listed in Supplemental Table 3 online. The psp1.1 (SALK_062391) allele of the At1g18640 gene was identified in the SIGnAL Collection database at the Salk Institute (CITATION). Mutants were identified by PCR genotyping using gene-specific primers and left border primers of the T-DNA insertion. PSP_RP and PSP-LP were the gene-specific primers for psp1.1 allele. The T-DNA insertion was confirmed by sequencing the fragment amplified by the T-DNA internal borders (LBb1.3) and gene-specific primers. Tilling mutants were provided through the Seattle TILLING Project (http://tilling.fhcrc.org/), which performed a high-throughput reverse genetic screening to identify ethyl methanesulfonate–induced mutations in the Col-er 105 background (CITATION). As a result, a psp1 allele (psp1.2) with a S178F amino acid substitution was identified. Tilling mutants were identified by PCR amplification of the target sequences with primers S178Fr2 and S178FRev and by restriction analysis of the PCR product with the enzyme EcoRV, which differentiates between the wild-type and the mutant alleles. For gene promoter-reporter fusions, a 1.4-kb fragment corresponding to the native PSP1 promoter was fused to the GUS gene in pCAMBIA1303, giving ProPSP-GUS. The cDNA corresponding to PSP1 (At1g18640) was placed under the control of three different promoters; the constitutive 35S promoter (Pro35S), the native PSP1 promoter (ProPSP), and the heat shock–inducible promoter of gene At5g59720 (ProHSP18.2) (CITATION) giving constructs Pro35S:PSP1, ProPSP:PSP1, and ProHSP18.2:PSP1, respectively. The PSP1 cDNA was cloned in the pCR8/GW/TOPO plasmid and subcloned in the plasmid pMDC83 (CITATION). This plasmid allowed us to clone PSP1 in frame with a GFP cDNA at the C-terminal position (PSP-GFP), giving the Pro35S:PSP1 vector. This vector was used to obtain constructs ProPSP:PSP1 and ProHSP18.2:PSP1. The 35S promoter of Pro35S:PSP1 was exchanged with the native PSP1 promoter of ProPSP-GUS, giving the ProPSP:PSP1 vector. The 35S promoter of Pro35S:PSP1 was also exchanged for the promoter region of gene HSP18.2, giving the ProHSP18.2:PSP1 vector. The HSP18.2 promoter was obtained from PTT101 plasmid (CITATION). AmiRNAs were generated to target PSP1 using the Web microRNA designer (http://wmd2.weigelworld.org/cgi-bin/mirnatools.pl). The amiRNAs were cloned according to the protocol by Rebecca Schwab in Detlef Weigel’s laboratory (http://wmd2.weigelworld.org/themes/amiRNA/pics/Cloning_of_artificial_microRNAs.pdf). All PCR-derived constructs were verified by DNA sequencing. Additional cloning information is provided in Supplemental Table 4 online. Arabidopsis plants were transformed with the different constructs using the floral dipping method (CITATION) with Agrobacterium tumefaciens carrying pSOUP. For the amiRNA and GUS lines, the wild type was used. As psp1.1/psp1.1 is embryo lethal, whenever necessary, the progeny of heterozygous plants (PSP1/psp1.1) was transformed with the different constructs. Transformants were selected by antibiotic selection, while homozygous psp1.1/psp1.1, heterozygous PSP1.1/psp1.1, and the wild type were identified by PCR genotyping using gene-specific primers (PSP_RP and PSP-LP) and left border primers of the T-DNA insertions (LBb1.3). At least four independent single insertion homozygous T3 lines were obtained for all different constructs. After characterization by RT-PCR, two to five different lines were selected for further analysis depending on the experiment. We used both syngenic wild-type lines as well as wild-type Columbia-0 as controls for our studies. Syngenic plants were the wild-type progeny from the segregation of heterozygous transgenic PSP1/psp1.1 plants. For amiRNAs, we used as controls the wild type used for transformation with the amiRNAs. Total RNA was extracted from seedlings and adult plants using the NucleoSpin RNA II kit (Macherey-Nagel). RNA (0.5 to 1 µg) was reverse transcribed using polyT primers and the first-strand cDNA synthesis kit for quantitative RT-PCR (Fermentas) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Real-time quantitative PCR was performed using a 5700 sequence detector system (Applied Biosystems) with the Power SYBR Green PCR Master Mix (Applied Biosystems) according to the manufacturer’s protocol. Each reaction was performed in triplicate with 1 μL first-strand cDNA in a total volume of 25 µL. Data are the mean of three biological samples. PCR amplification specificity was confirmed with a heat dissociation curve (from 60 to 95°C). Efficiency of PCR was calculated and different internal standards were selected (CITATION) depending on the efficiency of the primers. Relative mRNA abundance was calculated using the comparative cycle threshold method according to CITATION. Primers used for PCRs are listed in Supplemental Table 3 online. In vitro pollen germination assays were done using the optimized solid medium described by CITATION as previously described (CITATION). For GUS activity assays, plant organs were incubated in GUS buffer (100 mM sodium phosphate, pH 7.0, 10 mM EDTA, 0.1% Triton X-100, 0.5 mM potassium ferricyanide, 0.5 mM potassium ferrocyanide, and 2 mM 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indonyl-β-d-glucuronic acid [X-GlcA; Duchefa]) overnight at 37°C. Plant material was cleared in 70% ethanol before microscopy observation. At least six independent transgenic lines showed identical GUS-staining patterns, which differed only in the expression level of GUS. Images were acquired with a Leica DM1000 microscope and a Leica DC350 digital camera. For transmission electron microscopy of anther and pollen, inflorescences containing buds at different developmental stages from wild-type, psp1.1/psp1.1 Pro35S:PSP1-GFP, and psp1.1/psp1.1 ProPSP:PSP1-GFP plants were collected and classified into different development groups according to CITATION. Buds from the same group were removed from plants, fixed with 2.5% glutaraldehyde, and postfixed in 1% osmium. Tissue was dehydrated in an ethanol series and infiltrated with LR-White resin. Ultrathin sections (60 nm) were examined with a JEOL_1010 transmission electron microscope at 60 kV equipped with a MegaView III digital camera with Analysis software. For differential interference contrast microscopy, siliques from heterozygous PSP1/psp1.1 plants were dissected longitudinally at 2, 5, 7, and 10 DAP. Ovules from individual siliques were morphologically classified, cleared in Hoyer’s solution, and observed with a Nikon ECLIPSE E800 compound microscope equipped with Nomarski differential interference contrast optics and a Nikon DXM1200F digital camera with Nikon ACT-1 software. Bright-field photographs of 15-d-old hand-dissected embryos submerged in water were obtained using a stereoscopic zoom microscope Nikon SMZ 1500 equipped with a DS-Fi1 digital sight camera. For scanning electron microscopy, pollen was mounted on standard stubs and coated with gold-palladium prior to observation under a field emission microscope (Hitachi S-4100). GFP fluorescence was observed with a confocal microscope (Leica TCS-SP). For nucleus staining with Hoechst, inflorescences containing buds at different developmental stages from wild-type and psp1.1/psp1.1 Pro35S:PSP1-GFP plants were collected and classified in different groups as described for transmission electron microscopy. Buds from the same group were dissected on a microscope slide, and pollen grains released from anthers were stained with 10 µg/mL Hoechst dye. Samples were observed with Nikon Eclipse E800 compound microscope equipped with an epifluorescence module and a Nikon DXM1200F digital camera with Nikon ACT-1 software. Aerial parts and roots of 18- to 21-d-old wild-type, Oex, and amiRNA lines were used to determine metabolite content. Starch was determined with the Enzytec starch kit (ATOM). The protein content was quantified using the Bio-Rad protein assay kit. The levels of other metabolites were determined in derivatized methanol extracts by gas chromatography–mass spectrometry using the protocol defined by CITATION. PSP activity was measured in at least six biological replicates of wild-type, Oex, and amiRNA root extracts according to CITATION. For immunoblots, crude protein extracts from whole wild type and conditional psp1.1/psp1.1 mutants were obtained by harvesting 0.5 g plant material in liquid nitrogen and grinding in 1 mL ice-cold homogenization buffer (140 mM NaCl, 8 mM Na2HPO4⋅7H2O, 2 mM KH2PO4, and 10 mM KCl, pH 7.4) with 1% protease inhibitor cocktail (Sigma-Aldrich; P-9599), followed by two successive centrifugations (15,000g for 15 min at 4°C). Protein samples were quantified with Bradford reagent (Bio-Rad) using BSA as a standard, and then 100 µg total proteins was separated in 8% SDS-PAGE. Proteins were electrotransferred onto immunoblot nitrocellulose membranes (Bio-Rad) using the Mini Tran-Blot Cell (Bio-Rad) for 1 h at 100 V with transfer buffer (17 mM Tris, 192 mM Gly, and 20% [v/v] methanol). Immunoblots were probed with anti-GFP antibodies (Molecular Probes; ref. A-11122) at a final dilution of 1:20,000. Ponceau S–stained membranes are shown as loading controls. Cross-reacting bands were detected using the ECL select Western-blotting detection reagent kit (Amersham Biosciences). Experimental values represent mean values and se; n represents the number of independent samples. P values were calculated with a Student’s t test (two-tailed) using Microsoft Excel. The level of significance was fixed at 5% (0.05), representing the probability of error if the hypothesis of a significant difference between mean values was accepted. In the segregation analysis, data were tested to evaluate if the observed values agreed with Mendelian proportions using the χ2 test. P values higher than 0.05 indicate that the observed values are not significantly different from the expected ratio. P values lower than 0.001 indicate that the observed values differ are significantly from the expected ratio. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under accession number At1g18640 (PSP). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Simplified Scheme Showing the Main Metabolites Synthesized from Serine. Supplemental Figure 2. In Silico Analysis of PSP1 Expression Pattern. Supplemental Figure 3. Subcellular Localization of PSP1 by Stable Expression of PSP1-GFP Fusion Construct under the Control of the 35S Promoter in Arabidopsis. Supplemental Figure 4. Genomic Organization of psp1.1 T-DNA Mutant Line. Supplemental Figure 5. Developmental Analysis of Pollen in Homozygous psp1.1/psp1.1 Plants Transformed with PSP1-GFP cDNA under the Control of the Endogenous PSP1 Promoter by Transmission Electron Microscopy. Supplemental Figure 6. Light Microscopy Images of Sectioned Anthers from Wild-Type and Homozygous psp1.1/psp1.1 Plants Transformed with PSP1 under the Control of Either the 35S Promoter (Pro35S:PSP1) or the Endogenous PSP1 Promoter (ProPSP:PSP1) at Stage 12. Supplemental Figure 7. PSP1 Expression in the Anther and Pollen at Different Anther Development Stages. Supplemental Figure 8. Fresh Weight of Wild-Type and Conditional psp1.1/psp1.1 Mutant Lines under Different Growth Conditions. Supplemental Table 1. Significantly Enriched Consensus Sequences in the Promoter Regions of PSP1. Supplemental Table 2. Metabolite Levels in the Aerial Parts and Roots of Wild-Type, PSP1-Silenced, and PSP1-Overexpressing Plants. Supplemental Table 3. List of Primers Used in This Work. Supplemental Table 4. Constructs.
