!~ABS~!  
!~RES~! To test whether homodimers of N‐terminal fragments of phyC, phyD and phyE, similar to those of phyB, can launch R light‐induced signaling, we constructed chimeric genes consisting of the N‐terminal domains of PHYC, PHYD and PHYE fused to the YFP reporter under the control of the viral 35S promoter. These domains were selected on homology to the N‐terminal 1–651‐amino‐acid region of PHYB (Fig. S1). Appropriate dimerization and targeted, constitutive, subcellular localization were achieved by the addition of the leucine‐zipper domain of the CPRF transcription factor (DD) and the SV 40 NLS peptide or nuclear exclusion signal (NES), as described by Palágyi et al. (CITATION) and Wolf et al. (CITATION). The domain structures of the various fusion proteins are shown in Fig. S1. The synergistic and, in some cases, antagonistic action of phytochrome species makes the elucidation of the roles of minor family members in single mutants difficult. Therefore, we used double‐, triple‐ or quadruple‐mutant combinations showing characteristic deficient phenotypes to assess the functions of these fusion proteins. We regenerated 15 independent transgenic lines for each construct and used quantitative western blot hybridization to select lines which expressed the individual full‐length PHYC‐YFP, PHYD‐YFP and PHYE‐YFP, and their N‐terminal derivative fusion proteins, approximately at the same or, at least, comparable levels. The genetic backgrounds of the transgenic lines and the expression levels of the various fusion proteins relative to their endogenous phyC, phyD and phyE counterparts are shown in Tables S2 and S3, respectively.  The selected transgenic phyC/phyD mutant lines over‐expressed the PHYC‐YFP c. two‐fold, whereas the expression level of the PHYC602‐YFP‐DD‐NLS and PHYC602‐YFP‐DD‐NES fusion proteins was c. 40% or 70% of the endogenous phyC, respectively (Table S3). PHYC‐YFP fully, and the PHYC602‐YFP‐DD‐NLS fusion protein partially, restored R light‐induced hypocotyl growth inhibition of the phyC/phyD mutant (Fig. 1a). R light‐induced expansion of the cotyledon area of the mutant was also restored (Fig. 1b) and, in this case, PHYC‐YFP‐expressing seedlings exhibited a weak over‐expression phenotype, whereas the PHYC602‐YFP‐DD‐NLS seedlings displayed a nearly fully complemented phenotype. These fusion proteins also restored phyC function in regulating the flowering time under SD conditions (Fig. 1c). By contrast, the PHYC602‐YFP‐DD‐NES photoreceptor was biologically inactive in all responses tested, as the PHYC602‐YFP‐DD‐NES‐expressing seedlings invariably displayed the original phyC/phyD mutant phenotype in all experiments performed (Fig. 1a–c). The abundance of the native phyC and the various PHYC‐YFP fusion proteins was down‐regulated by constant R light (cR) irradiation. Irradiation with 120 h of cR light (25 μmol m−2 s−1) reduced the level of the endogenous phyC below the detection level (Fig. S2a), and decreased the levels of all other phyC fusion proteins c. four‐fold (Fig. S2b).  [[FIGURE]] Microscopic analysis of the nucleo/cytoplasmic distribution of the various PHYC‐YFP fusion proteins demonstrated that, in etiolated as well as R light‐irradiated seedlings, PHYC602‐YFP‐DD‐NLS was detectable only in the nucleus (Fig. S3a–c), PHYC602‐YFP‐DD‐NES was localized exclusively in the cytoplasm (Fig. S3d–f) and PHYC‐YFP was observed in both the nucleus and cytoplasm in etiolated as well in R light‐irradiated seedlings (Fig. S3g–i). A 5‐min R light treatment induced the formation of early PHYC‐YFP NBs, whereas a prolonged, 24‐h R light treatment promoted the formation of late, stable PHYC‐YFP NBs. Under these conditions, we could not detect the appearance of either early or late NBs associated with the truncated forms of PHYC. Quantitative analysis of R light‐induced accumulation of the fusion protein indicated that a 6‐h cR light treatment did not modify significantly the level of PHYC‐YFP in the nucleus (Fig. 1d).  The selected transgenic phyA/phyB/phyD plants over‐expressed PHYD‐YFP two‐fold and the PHYD‐N654‐YFP‐DD‐NLS and PHYD‐N654‐YFP‐DD ‐NES fusion proteins c. 25 and 20‐fold, respectively, when compared with endogenous phyD (Table S3). Analysis of R light‐induced hypocotyl growth inhibition (Fig. 2a), cotyledon expansion (Fig. 2b) and flowering time (Fig. 2c) under SD conditions demonstrated that the PHYD654‐YFP‐DD‐NLS and PHYD‐YFP fusion proteins were biologically active. As for hypocotyl growth inhibition and cotyledon expansion, PHYD654‐YFP‐DD‐NLS displayed a dramatic, and PHYD‐YFP a moderate, over‐expression phenotype when compared with the phyA/phyB double null mutant (Fig. 2a,b). The flowering time of the phyA/phyB/phyD mutant was also fully restored by PHYD‐YFP, whereas the PHYD654‐YFP‐DD‐NLS‐expressing lines again displayed strong over‐expression phenotypes (Fig. 2c). The PHYD654‐YFP‐DD‐NES fusion protein was biologically inactive, as transgenic seedlings/plants invariably displayed the original phyA/phyB/phyD mutant phenotype for all responses tested. The abundance of the native phyD and the various PHYD‐YFP fusion proteins was not affected significantly by cR light treatment. Irradiation with cR light (25 μmol m−2 s−1) did not modify the level of either the native phyD (Fig. S4a) or the full‐length and truncated PHYD‐YFP fusion proteins (Fig. S4b).  [[FIGURE]] The nucleo/cytoplasmic distribution of the various PHYD‐YFP fusion proteins was analyzed as described for the various PHYC‐YFP fusion proteins. PHYD654‐DD‐YFP‐NLS was visible in the nucleus under all conditions tested, whereas PHYD654‐DD‐YFP‐NES was detected exclusively in the cytoplasm, and these truncated proteins never associated with NBs (Fig. S5a–c and d–f, respectively). PHYD‐YFP was clearly visible in the nucleus in etiolated seedlings, and R light treatments did not affect the amount of photoreceptor localized in the nucleus or induce the formation of early/late PHYD‐YFP‐containing NBs (Fig. S5h–i). Quantitative analysis of the accumulation of PHYD‐YFP in the nucleus corroborated these observations (Fig. 2d).  The selected transgenic phyA/phyB/phyE plants expressed the PHYE‐YFP and PHYE593‐YFP‐DD‐NES fusion proteins eight‐ to ten‐fold and the PHYE593‐YFP‐DD‐NLS protein c. three‐ to four‐fold more strongly than the native phyE (Table S3) Analysis of R light‐induced inhibition of hypocotyl growth and cotyledon expansion demonstrated that, with the exception of PHYE593‐YFP‐DD‐NES, these fusion proteins efficiently complemented the phyA/phyB/phyE mutant, and even displayed characteristic over‐expression phenotypes when compared with phyA/phyB mutants (Fig. 3a,b). These responses were induced at very low fluence rates (> 0.001 μmol m−2 s−1) and saturated at low fluence rates (0.01 μmol m−2 s−1). Transgenic plants expressing nuclear localized homodimers of N‐terminal fragments of PHYB, but not the full‐length PHYB, were similarly hypersensitive at low fluences of R light (Oka et al., CITATION). The same fusion proteins, again with the exception of the truncated PHYE593‐YFP‐DD‐NES, complemented the flowering time of the phyA/phyB/phyE triple mutant (Fig. 3c). The abundance of the native phyE and the various PHYE‐YFP fusion proteins was down‐regulated by irradiation with cR light (25 μmol m−2 s−1). Exposure to 120 h cR light reduced the abundance level of the native phyE c. two‐fold (Fig. S6a) and that of the full‐length and truncated PHYE‐YFP fusion proteins c. four‐fold (Fig. S6b).We also analyzed the cellular distribution of the full‐length and truncated PHYE‐YFP fusion proteins in this genetic background. The PHYE593‐YFP‐DD‐NLS fusion protein was constitutively nuclear; its accumulation in the nucleus did not increase after prolonged exposure to R light (Fig. S7a–c). By contrast, PHYE593‐YFP‐DD‐NES, as expected, was detectable only in the cytoplasm, independent of the light conditions (Fig. S7d–f). As for PHYE593‐YFP‐DD‐NLS, short 5‐min R light irradiation induced the formation of early NBs, but extended R treatment did not promote the appearance of late, stable NBs associated with this fusion protein (Fig. S7a–c). By contrast, we could not detect the formation of any NBs containing PHYE593‐YFP‐DD‐NES. The PYHE‐YFP fusion protein was detectable in the nuclei of etiolated seedlings, but a 24‐h R light treatment clearly induced its nuclear abundance. In addition, R light also induced the appearance of early NBs, but did not promote the formation of late, stable PHYE‐YFP‐associated NBs (Fig. S7g–i). Quantitative analysis of the R light‐induced accumulation of the PHYE‐YFP fusion protein in the nucleus corroborated these observations (Fig. 3d).  [[FIGURE]] To test to what extent the functionality of PHYE‐YFP depends on phyD, the PHYE‐YFP transgene from the phyA/phyB/phyE mutant was introgressed into the phyA/phyB/phyD/phyE quadruple null background. Analysis of R light‐induced hypocotyl growth inhibition demonstrated that PHYE‐YFP is functional in the absence of phyA, phyB and phyD (Fig. 4a). This figure also shows that seedlings expressing PHYE‐YFP display a characteristic over‐expression phenotype when compared with the phyA/phyB/phyD/phyE mutant, and the physiological response in this genetic background also saturates at 0.01 μmol m−2 s−1 fluence rate of R light, and resembles the data obtained by the analysis of PHYE‐YFP function in the phyA/phyB/phyE triple null background (Fig. 3a). The extreme sensitivity of these PHYE‐YFP responses to R light prompted us to test whether the biological activity and nuclear accumulation of PHYE are mediated by FHY1/FHL proteins, shown to be essential for the translocation of phyA into the nucleus. To this end, we produced PHYE‐YFP‐expressing transgenic fhy1/fhl mutant lines. Figure 4(b) illustrates that the PHYE‐YFP‐expressing seedlings are hypersensitive to low fluences of R light when compared with fhy1/fhl or Col‐0 WT. Quantitative analysis of R light‐induced accumulation of PHYE‐YFP in the nucleus demonstrated that this process is saturated at 0.08 μmol m−2 s−1 fluence rate of R light in contrast with PHYB‐GFP (Fig. 4c–d). We note that R light is ineffective in inducing the formation of early and/or late, stable PHYE‐YFP NBs in the phyA/phyB/phyD/phyE background, whereas these nuclear structures were readily detectable in the fhy1/fhl mutant (Table S4). To test whether the PHYE‐YFP photoreceptor functions and is imported into the nucleus as a monomer or homodimer, we analyzed total protein extracts prepared from etiolated and R light‐treated seedlings by native gel electrophoresis. Our data demonstrate that the PHYE‐YFP fusion protein is detected nearly exclusively as a homodimer in these extracts, and that extended irradiation with R light reduces significantly the abundance of PHYE‐YFP (Fig. 4e). In addition, we show that, similar to the phyA‐201 null mutant, a short pulse of R light is not capable of inducing significant accumulation of PRR9, CAB2 or ELIP1 transcripts in transgenic phyA/phyB/phyD/phyE seedlings over‐expressing PHYE‐YFP (Fig. 5a). However, Fig. 5(b) indicates that over‐expressed PHYE‐YFP in the phyA/phyB/phyE and/or phyA/phyB/phyD/phyE background can restore the transcriptional regulation of EXPANSIN5 and 9, thought to regulate cell wall extension in an opposite fashion. Taken together, these data strongly suggest that PHYE‐YFP can function as a homodimer independent of phyB, phyD and phyA, the nuclear import of phyE does not require functional FHY1/FHL proteins, the phyE‐controlled signaling cascade operates differently from that controlled by phyA at very low fluences of R light, and the formation of late, stable PHYE‐YFP NBs requires functional phyB.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Full‐length PHYC, D and E cDNA fragments were subcloned from the 35S:PHYC,D,E‐GFP pPCV plasmids (Kircher et al., CITATION) into the 35S:YFP‐NOS3 ′ pPCV812 (PHYC) or 35S:YFP‐NOS3 ′ pPCVB812 (PHYD, PHYE) vectors as BamHI‐EheI (PHYC) and SmaI‐EheI (PHYE, PHYD) fragments. The creation of the 35S:YFP‐DD‐NLS/NES pPCV812 plasmid vectors has been described elsewhere (Pfeiffer et al., CITATION; Wolf et al., CITATION). The cDNA fragments encoding the N‐terminal domain of Arabidopsis PHYC, D and E were amplified by polymerase chain reaction and cloned into the 35S:YFP‐DD‐NLS/NES pPCV812 vectors. 35S:PHYA‐YFP has been described by Bauer et al. (CITATION). DNA oligonucleotides used in the construction of recombinant genes are listed in Supporting Information Table S1. The final constructs were verified by sequencing and introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101.  Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) plants were transformed by the Agrobacterium‐mediated floral dip method (Clough & Bent, CITATION). Details of the raised transgenic lines and the mutant backgrounds used are given in Table S2. From each of these transformations, transgenic seedlings expressing the fusion proteins were selected by their resistance to hygromycin or Basta, and grown to maturation in the glasshouse (for details, see Bauer et al., CITATION). Independent homozygous lines expressing one copy of the transgene were selected for further analysis.  For hypocotyl length measurements, seeds were sown on four layers of filter paper and imbibed in water for 48 h at 4°C. For cotyledon area measurements, seeds were placed on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium without sucrose. Cold‐treated seeds were then irradiated with white light for 3 h at 22°C to induce seed germination, and transferred to dark for an additional 18 h at 22°C. The plates were then placed under various light conditions for 4 d or otherwise, specified in the figure legends. Seedlings were placed horizontally on the surface of agar medium and scanned (n = 50). Images of scanned seedlings were analyzed using MetaMorph Software (Universal Imaging, Downingtown, PA, USA). Hypocotyl length values, measured at different fluences of light, were normalized to the corresponding dark‐grown hypocotyl length to reflect solely the light‐dependent regulation.  Seeds were sown in water and incubated for 2 d in the dark at 4°C. They were then placed on the surface of soil and transferred to short‐day conditions (SD, 8 h white light : 16 h dark at 22°C). Light sources were fluorescent (cool‐white) tubes producing a fluence rate of 60 μmol m−2 s−1. The flowering time was recorded as the number of rosette leaves at the time at which inflorescences reached a height of 1 cm (n = 40).  Seeds were sown on a four‐layer filter paper and imbibed in water in the dark for 48 h at 4°C. Cold‐treated seeds were then transferred to 25°C and irradiated with 18 h of white light to induce homogeneous germination, and subsequently grown in the dark. Six‐day‐old dark‐grown seedlings were then subjected to various light treatments, as described in the text. The standard epifluorescence microscopy set‐up and observation techniques have been described previously (Bauer et al., CITATION; Viczián & Kircher, CITATION; Sokolova et al., CITATION). For semiquantitative epifluorescence microscopy, etiolated seedlings were irradiated for 6 h with R light at the fluence rates given in the figure legends. Using an Axioplan microscope (Zeiss, Germany) equipped with a CoolSnap HQ camera (Photometrics, Tucson, AZ, USA), 12‐bit TIFF images, not containing saturated pixels, were taken of nuclei in epidermal cells of hypocotyls. In order to minimize the effect of the microscopic light, images were taken within the first 120 s after the onset of excitation light. Adjusted and identical exposure times and excitation light intensity settings were applied throughout the analysis of each genotype. The average intensity of nuclear pixels was calculated using ImageJ software (National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA), including the subtraction of background signals in each image. The mean value of the data obtained from at least 25 independent nuclei was normalized to the corresponding dark control. For each genotype, three independent biological replica experiments were performed.  Seedling protein extracts were prepared in extraction buffer (50 mM Tris, pH 8.0, 150 mM NaCl, 0.1% NP‐40), as described previously (Sharrock & Clack, CITATION). Proteins were fractionated on 6% sodium dodecylsulfate‐polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS/PAGE) gels and transferred to Hybond‐ECL membranes (GE Healthcare, Little Chalfont, UK). Membranes were blocked overnight at 4°C with blocking buffer (5% non‐fat dry milk, 0.2% Tween 20 in TBS‐T buffer, pH 7.6). Membranes were probed in blocking buffer containing the following primary monoclonal antibodies: anti‐phyC C11 and C13, anti‐phyD 2C1, and anti‐phyE 7B3 (Hirschfeld et al., CITATION). After three washes with TBS‐T buffer, chemiluminescent detection of primary antibodies was performed with horseradish peroxidase‐conjugated secondary antibody and Supersignal West Pico reagents (Thermo Fisher Scientific, Waltham, MA, USA). Total protein was analyzed by the Bio‐Rad Protein Assay. For native gel electrophoresis, 7‐d‐old seedlings grown under the described light conditions were ground at 0°C under dim green safe light at a 1 : 1 weight : volume ratio in non‐denaturing extraction buffer (25 mM Tris‐HCl, pH 7.5, 10 mM NaCl, 5 mM EDTA) containing Complete EDTA‐free Protease Inhibitor Cocktail (Roche Diagnostics, Indianapolis, IN, USA), and the extracts were centrifuged for 3 min at 4°C. Proteins were separated on 4–20% gradient PAGE gels in Tris/borate/EDTA buffer for 40 h at 4°C. Gel blotting was the same as for SDS‐PAGE gels, and blots were probed with anti‐GFP antibody GF28R (Thermo Fisher Scientific). Secondary antibodies coupled to horseradish peroxidase (Bio‐Rad) were used according to the manufacturer's recommendations.  Seeds were surface sterilized and plated onto MS medium, stratified at 4°C in the dark for 3 d, and exposed to white light for 3 h to induce germination. Subsequent growth conditions and light inductions were carried out as described in the corresponding figure legends. RNA samples were prepared from whole seedlings using RNeasy Miniprep Kits (Qiagen) according to the manufacturer's instructions, and DNA was removed by DNase I treatment. cDNA was synthesized from 1 μg of total RNA using the Revert Aid First Strand cDNA Synthesis Kit (Fermentas, Vilnius, Lithuania). Real‐time reverse transcription‐polymerase chain reaction (RT‐PCR) analysis was carried out with a 7500Real‐Time PCR System with SYBR Green JumpStart TaqReadyMix (Sigma). The expression levels were normalized to the expression of TUBULIN2/3.The experiments were performed at least three times, and a representative dataset is presented. The primers used in qRT‐PCRs are listed in Table S1.  PHYB, AT2G18790; PHYC, AT5G35840; PHYD, AT4G16250; PHYE, AT4G18130; FHY1, AT2G37678; FHL, AT5G02200; PRR9, At2g46790; CAB2, At1g29920; ELIP1, AT3G22840; EXPANSIN5, AT3G29030; EXPANSIN9, AT5G02260; BBX23, AT4G10240; HB4, AT2G44910; TUBULIN2/3, AT5G62690. 
