!~ABS~! Plants accumulate large amounts of storage products in seeds to provide an energy reserve and to supply nutrients for germination and post-germinative growth. Arabidopsis thaliana belongs to the Brassica family, and oil is the main storage product in Arabidopsis seeds. To elucidate the regulatory mechanisms of oil biosynthesis in seeds, we screened for high density seeds (heavy seed) that have a low oil content. HS3 (heavy seed 3) encodes the DEAD-box RNA helicase 22 that is localized to plastids. The triacylglycerol (TAG) content of hs3-1 seeds was 10% lower than that of wild-type (WT) seeds, while the protein content was unchanged. The hs3-1 plants displayed a pale-green phenotype in developing seeds and seedlings, but not in adult leaves. The HS3 expression level was high in developing seeds and seedlings, but was low in stems, rosette leaves and flowers. The plastid gene expression profile of WT developing seeds and seedlings differed from that of hs3-1 developing seeds and seedlings. The expression of several genes was reduced in developing hs3-1 seeds, including accD, a gene that encodes the β subunit of carboxyltransferase, which is one component of acetyl-CoA carboxylase in plastids. In contrast, no differences were observed between the expression profiles of WT and hs3-1 rosette leaves. These results show that HS3 is essential for proper mRNA accumulation of plastid genes during seed development and seedling growth, and suggest that HS3 ensures seed oil biosynthesis by maintaining plastid mRNA levels.
!~RES~! Arabidopsis thaliana seeds contain stores of oil and protein. The densities of oil and protein differ greatly: the density of oil is approximately 0.9 and the density of protein is generally >1.2. The relative proportions of oil and protein determine the seed density, and density gradient centrifugation can therefore be used to screen for mutant seeds that have altered oil/protein ratios. We screened for high density seeds, which have a low oil content, using Percoll-based density gradient centrifugation, which permits the detection of minor but significant differences in density. Three heavy seed mutants (hs1-1, hs2-1 and hs3-1) were isolated, and this study was conducted using hs3-1 plants. The hs3-1 mutant was identified from pools of T-DNA insertion lines. The hs3-1 seed density was higher than that of wild-type (WT) seeds (Fig. 1A). The TAG content of hs3-1 seeds was 10% lower than that of WT seeds, while the protein content was the same (Fig. 1B). In addition, the hs3-1 seeds were smaller than the WT seeds (Fig. 1C, D, Table 1), and the average weight of the hs3-1 seeds was 4.8% less than that of the WT seeds (Table 1). These results indicate that the hs3-1 mutant produces seeds with reduced oil content and suggest that TAG accumulation is affected in hs3-1 seeds.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] TAG is the main oil stored in Arabidopsis seeds, and the fatty acids used in the TAGs are produced in plastids. The TAG content of developing hs3-1 seeds was less than that of WT seeds (Fig. 2A), while the transcript level of PED1, which encodes a key enzyme in fatty acid β-oxidation in peroxisomes (CITATION, CITATION), was unchanged (Supplementary Fig. S1). The seed protein content was unchanged (Fig. 2B). Additionally, the hs3-1 embryos were pale green compared with WT embryos at both 5 days after flowering (DAF) (Fig. 2C, D) and 10 DAF (Fig. 2E, F), and the Chl content of hs3-1 seeds was significantly lower than WT at both 5 and 10 DAF (Fig. 2G).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The growth of hs3-1 plants was also investigated. While hs3-1 seeds germinated normally, 7-day-old hs3-1 seedlings were pale green, and the cotyledons were smaller and the roots were shorter than those of the WT (Fig. 3A). The growth defects in hs3-1 plants were also observed when plants were cultured without sucrose (Supplementary Fig. S2). Although the 10-day-old hs3-1 seedlings were still pale green and smaller than those of the WT (Fig. 3B), the 14-day-old hs3-1 plants had recovered a phenotype similar to the WT (Fig. 3C) and the 30-d-old hs3-1 plants were equal in size to the WT plants (Fig. 3D). The Chl content of the 7- and 10-day-old hs3-1 seedlings was significantly lower than that of the WT, but the Chl content of 14- and 21-day-old plants was equivalent to that of the WT (Fig. 3E). Electron microscopy revealed that WT cotyledons displayed well-developed thylakoid membranes and starch accumulation in plastids (Fig. 3F), while the thylakoid membranes of the hs3-1 cotyledons were underdeveloped, and starch accumulation was markedly reduced (Fig. 3G). These results indicate that HS3 is essential for plastid functions during seed development and seedling growth.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To identify the gene responsible for hs3-1, the T-DNA position in the hs3-1 genome was determined by TAIL-PCR (thermal asymmetric interlaced-PCR). The T-DNA was inserted into the sixth intron of the At1g59990 gene in the hs3-1 genome (Fig. 4A) and introducing a 35Spro::HS3 DNA fragment into hs3-1 plants rescued the pale-green phenotype (Supplementary Fig. S3). Alleles of hs3-1, hs3-2 and hs3-3 were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC), and the positions of the T-DNA insertions were identified (Fig. 4A). Insertions of the T-DNA in the hs3-1 and hs3-2 genomes were confirmed by PCR (Fig. 4B). The full-length HS3 transcript was expressed in WT plants, but expression was reduced in hs3-2 plants and absent in hs3-1 plants (Fig. 4C; primer-a and f). The 5′ end of the transcript, including the first exon, was detected in WT, hs3-1 and hs3-2 plants (Fig. 4C; primer-b and c). Transcripts containing exons 1–7 were detected in both WT and hs3-2 plants (Fig. 4C; primer-d and e) and transcripts containing exons 1–8 were detected in WT plants and at low levels in hs3-2 plants (Fig. 4C; primer-d and f). These results indicate that hs3-1 does not produce a full-length HS3 transcript, and that the level of full-length transcripts is reduced in hs3-2 mutants. Indeed, the pale-green phenotype of 7-day-old hs3-2 seedlings was weaker than that of hs3-1 seedlings (Fig. 4D, E). In addition, we were unable to obtain hs3-3 homozygous mutants, and approximately 25% of the seeds in hs3-3 siliques were aborted seeds (Supplementary Fig. S4A, Supplementary Data) in which embryogenesis was arrested at the globular stage (Supplementary Fig. S4C, Supplementary Data). These results demonstrate that sufficient levels of full-length HS3 transcripts are required for seed development and seedling growth, and that a null mutation of HS3 produces an embryonic lethal phenotype.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The amino acid sequence of HS3, obtained from The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR), contained a DEAD-like helicase superfamily domain (Fig. 5A), and HS3–green fluorescent protein (GFP) was localized in plastids (Fig. 5B–D, Supplementary Fig. S5). RNA helicases play a number of roles in RNA metabolism and are primarily involved in mRNA regulation (CITATION). HS3 transcripts were strongly detected in 5- and 7-day-old seedlings and seeds harvested at 5 DAF (Fig. 6A). To elucidate the function of HS3, the transcript levels of 67 plastid genes from WT and hs3-1 plants, as well as plants overexpressing HS3 (OE-4), were analyzed by quantitative reverse transcription–PCR (RT–PCR) (Supplementary Fig. S6). In hs3-1 developing seeds harvested at 5 DAF, the transcript levels of 18 plastid genes were less than half of WT levels (Fig. 6B). In contrast, the transcript levels of ABI3, FUS3, LEC1, LEC2 and WRI1, which are involved in seed development but are encoded in the nuclear genome, were unchanged (Fig. 6B). In 7-day-old hs3-1 seedlings, the transcript levels of nine plastid genes were over 75% less than that of WT seedlings (Fig. 6C), while the transcript levels of ACR4, ATML1 and PDF2, which regulate epidermal cell differentiation in seedlings but are encoded by the nuclear genome, were unchanged (Fig. 6C). The transcript levels of all 67 plastid genes were equivalent in leaves from 30-day-old WT and hs3-1 plants (Supplementary Fig. S6). No differences in transcript levels of the 67 genes were detected in OE-4 developing seeds harvested at 5 DAF, as well as 7-day-old seedlings and 30-day-old leaves (Supplementary Figs. S6, Supplementary Data). Additionally, there were no phenotypic differences in the developing seeds (Fig. 7A–F), seedlings (Fig. 7G) or plants (Fig. 7H) between WT plants and plants overexpressing HS3. To determine whether HS3 affects replication of the plastid genome, the genome copy number was measured. The plastid genome copy number was unchanged in hs3-1 developing seeds (at 5 DAF) and in 7-day-old seedlings relative to the WT (Supplementary Fig. S8). These data indicate that HS3 does not affect the replication of the plastid genome but is involved in mRNA accumulation of plastid genes.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The A. thaliana Col-0 strain was used as the WT. All seeds were surface-sterilized in 2% NaClO (sodium hypochlorite) and 0.02% Triton X-100. Seeds were sown on growth medium containing half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) salts, Gamborg’s B5 vitamins, 0.5 mg ml–1 MES and 0.8% agar, with 1% sucrose. The pH of the medium was adjusted to 5.8 with KOH. The plants were grown under constant illumination at 22°C. The hs3-1 mutant was isolated from pools of T-DNA insertion lines (CS76502, CS76504, CS76506 and CS76508) obtained from the ABRC by gradient centrifugation of the seeds. The hs3-2 and hs3-3 mutants were obtained from the ABRC (SALK_065388 and CS856759, respectively). Seeds from the T-DNA insertion lines were washed three times with 90% ethanol and then incubated with 5% SDS for 5 min. After washing three times with distilled water, the seeds were incubated with 0.1% MES adjusted to pH 3.0 for 12 h at 4°C to remove mucilage. After 12 h, the seeds were washed three times with 0.1% MES adjusted to pH 6.0, and 100 µl of the solution containing 100 seeds was layered onto 30% Percoll containing 15 mM KCl and centrifuged at 20,000×g for 30 min. Seeds found in the lower layer were collected and designated as hs (heavy seed) mutants. The gene responsible for hs3-1 was determined by the TAIL-PCR method, as described in CITATION. Cotyledons of 7-day-old seedlings were analyzed by electron microscopy. Ultrathin sectioning and microscopic analysis were performed as described previously by CITATION. RT–PCR of RNA isolated from developing Arabidopsis seeds harvested at 5 DAF was used to amplify cDNA fragments encoding the amino acid sequence of AT1G59990 and containing attB1 and attB2 sites at the 5′ and 3′ termini. The PCR-amplified fragments were cloned into the Gateway entry vector pDONR221 (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com) by BP recombination (Invitrogen), and then transferred to the Ti plasmid pH2GW7 (VIB-Ghent University, http://www.psb.ugent.be/gateway/index.php) or pGWB505 (CITATION). The recombinant plasmid was introduced into WT or hs3-1 plants by infiltration using the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58C1RifR. The primary transformant was designated as a T0 plant. Transformed Arabidopsis lines were selected on growth medium containing 25 µg l–1 hygromycin and designated as T1 transformants. T2 progeny that displayed hygromycin resistance were used for this study. A total of 150 seeds were ground in 400 µl of chloroform : methanol (2 : 1) using a stainless-steel homogenizer. The extract was centrifuged at 2,000×g for 5 min. The supernatant was collected and the pellet was extracted with 400 µl of chloroform : methanol (2 : 1) by vortexing. The extract was centrifuged at 2,000×g for 5 min. The supernatant was collected and combined with the first supernatant. The supernatant was dried and stored at −20°C. The dried lipids were dissolved in 25 µl of hexane and spotted onto a silica gel thin-layer chromatography (TLC) plate (Merck Millipore, http://www.merckmillipore.com) to separate TAG from total lipid. Triheptadecanoin (Wako, http://www.wako-chem.co.jp) was used for a standard. TLC separation was carried out using hexane : diethylether : acetic acid (80 : 20 : 1). The TAG spot was collected and TAG was extracted in 100 µl of hexane. Fatty acid methyl esterification was conducted using a Fatty Acid Methylation Kit (nacalai tesque, http://www.nacalai.co.jp/global/index.html). The fatty acid methyl esters were quantified with gas chromatography–mass spectrometry (GC-MS; GC-14, Shimadzu, http://www.shimadzu.com/an/index.html, JMS-DX-300, JEOL, http://www.jeol.com/) using a DB-23 column (Agilent Technology, http://www.chem.agilent.com). To quantify the protein content of seeds, a total of 50 seeds were ground in 100 µl of 50 mM Tris–HCl (pH 7.2) containing 1% Triton X-100 and 100 mM NaCl using a stainless-steel homogenizer. The total protein content of a 30 µl suspension was quantified using Pierce BCA Protein Assay Reagents (Thermo Fisher Scientific, http://www.piercenet.com). Cotyledons and leaves were collected and ground in liquid nitrogen. Extraction and measurement of Chls were carried out as described in CITATION. Quantitative RT–PCR analysis was carried out according to the method described by CITATION with slight modifications. Total RNA was extracted from 7-day-old seedlings and 30-day-old rosette leaves using the RNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen, http://www.qiagen.com). Total RNA from developing seeds was extracted using the RNAqueous®-Micro Kit (Ambion, http://www.invitrogen.com/site/us/en/home/brands/ambion.html). Total RNA was extracted from three independent samples for each treatment. cDNA from total RNA was synthesized from 2 µg of total RNA using Illustra Ready-To-Go RT-PCR Beads (GE Healthcare, http://www.gelifesciences.com). Quantitative RT–PCR was performed using a KAPA SYBR® FAST Universal kit (KAPA BIOSYSTEMS, http://www.kapabiosystems.com) and the ABI 7500 Fast Real-Time PCR system (Applied Biosystems, http://www.appliedbiosystems.com) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The primer sets used for quantitative RT–PCR are shown in Supplementary Table S1. Total DNA for real-time quantitative PCR was extracted from seedlings and developing seeds using the NucleoSpin® Tissue XS kit (MACHEREY-NAGEL, http://www.mn-net.com). To measure the copy number of the plastid and nuclear genomes, real-time quantitative PCR was carried out as described in CITATION. Real-time quantitative PCR was performed using a KAPA SYBR® FAST Universal kit (KAPA BIOSYSTEMS) and an ABI 7500 Fast Real-Time PCR system (Applied Biosystems) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The primer sets used for this assay are shown in Supplementary Table S1.
