!~ABS~! Clathrin-mediated endocytosis (CME) is the best-characterized type of endocytosis in eukaryotic cells. Plants appear to possess all of the molecular components necessary to carry out CME; however, functional characterization of the components is still in its infancy. A yeast two-hybrid screen identified μ2 as a putative interaction partner of CELLULOSE SYNTHASE6 (CESA6). Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) μ2 is homologous to the medium subunit 2 of the mammalian ADAPTOR PROTEIN COMPLEX2 (AP2). In mammals, the AP2 complex acts as the central hub of CME by docking to the plasma membrane while concomitantly recruiting cargo proteins, clathrin triskelia, and accessory proteins to the sites of endocytosis. We confirmed that μ2 interacts with multiple CESA proteins through the μ-homology domain of μ2, which is involved in specific interactions with endocytic cargo proteins in mammals. Consistent with its role in mediating the endocytosis of cargos at the plasma membrane, μ2-YELLOW FLUORESCENT PROTEIN localized to transient foci at the plasma membrane, and loss of μ2 resulted in defects in bulk endocytosis. Furthermore, loss of μ2 led to increased accumulation of YELLOW FLUORESCENT PROTEIN-CESA6 particles at the plasma membrane. Our results suggest that CESA represents a new class of CME cargo proteins and that plant cells might regulate cellulose synthesis by controlling the abundance of active CESA complexes at the plasma membrane through CME.
!~RES~! μ2 was identified as a putative interaction partner of the central domain of CESA6 in a conventional Y2H screen (Supplemental Fig. S1). In mammals, the N-terminal domain of μ2 mediates its association with the AP2 complex, whereas the C-terminal μ-homology domain of μ2 (μ2MHD) is involved in specific interactions with endocytic cargo proteins (Supplemental Fig. S2A; CITATION). To investigate the cargo-binding role of μ2, both full-length μ2 and μ2MHD were tested for direct interaction with full-length CESA3 and CESA6 using the split-ubiquitin (SU)-Y2H assay, which can analyze protein-protein interactions of integral membrane proteins (CITATION). In the SU-Y2H screen, reconstitution of a functional ubiquitin from its N-terminal (Nub) and C-terminal (Cub) halves is recognized by ubiquitin-specific proteases, which cleave a fused transcription factor module (PLV) from the Cub to activate the expression of LexA-driven reporter genes, HIS3 and LacZ, in the nucleus. Wild-type Nub (NubWT) readily binds to the Cub of the CESA3-Cub-PLV and CESA6-Cub-PLV bait constructs and was used as a positive control (Fig. 1A, columns 1 and 3). A mutated form of Nub (NubG) has a reduced affinity for binding to Cub and was used as a negative control with the bait constructs (Fig. 1A, columns 2 and 4). When either μ2 or μ2MHD was fused to NubG and cotransformed into yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain THY.AP4) with CESA3-Cub-PLV or CESA6-Cub-PLV, the expression of reporter genes was detected, suggesting that full-length μ2 and μ2MHD can interact with CESA3 and CESA6 (Fig. 1A, columns 7–10). As an additional negative control, no reporter gene expression was detected when either μ2-NubG or μ2MHD-NubG was cotransformed with Cub-PLV alone (Fig. 1A, columns 5 and 6). [[FIGURE]] To validate the interaction between μ2MHD and the primary CESAs further, in vitro pull-down assays were performed. Despite numerous attempts, we were unable to express full-length CESA proteins in Escherichia coli. Therefore, the central domains of primary CESAs were used in the pull-down assays. GST-μ2MHD was able to pull down His-CESA1CD, His-CESA3CD, and His-CESA6CD (Fig. 1B). No detectable His-CESACD proteins were pulled down by purified glutathione S-transferase (GST). These data suggest that μ2MHD mediates the interaction between μ2 and the central domain of CESA1, CESA3, and CESA6. To investigate the role of μ2 in Arabidopsis, two available transfer DNA (T-DNA) insertion lines for μ2 were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. The SALK_083693 line (μ2-1) contained a T-DNA insertion at the splice site between the fourth exon and the fourth intron, and the SAIL_165_A05 line (μ2-2) contained a T-DNA insertion in the seventh exon (Supplemental Fig. S2A). Homozygous μ2-1 and μ2-2 mutants lacked detectable transcripts as analyzed by reverse transcription-PCR (Supplemental Fig. S2B) and, therefore, were concluded to be null alleles. μ2-1 and μ2-2 shared similar phenotypes; therefore, only μ2-1 was used for functional analysis of μ2. Scanning electron microscopy of μ2-1 pollen grains showed irregular or collapsed cell wall morphologies (Supplemental Fig. S2C), similar to the phenotypes reported for null mutants of CESA1 and CESA3 (CITATION). Compared with wild-type seedlings, μ2-1 seedlings had longer primary roots and etiolated hypocotyls (Supplemental Fig. S2, D–G). In 4- to 8-d-old light-grown seedlings, μ2-1 roots were approximately 20% longer than those of wild-type seedlings. Likewise, in 4- to 7-d-old dark-grown seedlings, μ2-1 hypocotyls were 15% to 20% longer than those of wild-type seedlings. In contrast, adult μ2-1 plants were smaller in stature than wild-type plants and siliques of μ2-1 plants were shorter and thinner than wild type-siliques (Supplemental Fig. S2, H–K). The widespread mutant phenotypes of μ2-1 suggest that μ2 plays a role in many tissues, which is consistent with the ubiquitous expression of μ2 obtained from Genevestigator. To obtain a detailed expression profile of μ2, the 1.5-kb region upstream of μ2 was fused to the GUS gene and transformed into wild-type plants. A histochemical analysis of GUS activity was performed in the transgenic plants. GUS expression from pμ2:GUS was detected in dark-grown hypocotyls, rosette leaves, stamen, pollen, developing siliques, and roots (Supplemental Fig. S3). The internalization of FM4-64, a membrane-impermeable fluorescent styryl dye, is commonly used to visualize general endocytosis in plant cells (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). It has been shown previously that small bright intracellular FM4-64 puncta with TGN/EE localization are visible after short exposure of root cells to FM4-64 (CITATION) and that uptake of FM4-64 can be quantified under these conditions (CITATION). Therefore, the general endocytic efficiency of μ2-1 and wild-type seedlings was quantified in root epidermal cells after a short (8.5-min) exposure to 2 μm FM4-64. Wild-type seedlings showed many bright intracellular FM4-64 puncta, while μ2-1 seedlings showed fewer intracellular FM4-64 puncta that were of lower intensity (Fig. 2A). Quantification of the internalization of FM4-64 revealed that μ2-1 cells exhibited an approximately 45% decrease in FM4-64 internalization compared with the wild type (Fig. 2, B and C), supporting the role of μ2 in general endocytosis in Arabidopsis. [[FIGURE]] To examine the subcellular localization of μ2, a μ2-YFP (for yellow fluorescent protein) construct containing an approximately 1-kb native μ2 promoter, genomic μ2 sequence, and a C-terminal YFP tag was transformed into μ2-1 plants. μ2-YFP fully complemented the FM4-64 internalization defect of the μ2-1 mutant (Fig. 2) and the μ2-1 mutant phenotype of dark-grown hypocotyls (Supplemental Fig. S4C), suggesting that the μ2-YFP fusion protein was functional. In dark-grown hypocotyls, μ2-YFP localized to the plasma membrane with punctate distribution and exhibited temporal behavior of appearance and disappearance (Supplemental Fig. S4, A and B; Supplemental Movie S1). The distribution and temporal behavior of μ2-YFP was similar to what has been observed for CLC and dynamin-related proteins (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), suggesting that μ2-YFP might have a role in CME. To test the involvement of μ2 in CME, the μ2-YFP line was crossed with a CLC-mOrange line (CITATION). In dark-grown hypocotyls, both μ2-YFP and CLC-mOrange localized to the plasma membrane with punctate distribution and extensive colocalization (Fig. 3A). Colocalization ratios between μ2-YFP and CLC-mOrange were significantly higher than what is expected by coincident colocalization between randomly distributed particle populations of the same density (Supplemental Table S1). Both μ2-YFP and CLC-mOrange particles exhibited transient behavior such that particles appeared and disappeared at the plasma membrane while exhibiting minimal lateral movement. By documenting the temporal behavior of colocalized particles, it was observed that μ2-YFP and CLC-mOrange particles appeared and disappeared either within the same frame or within 5 s of one another (Fig. 3B; Supplemental Movie S2). The mean lifetimes of μ2-YFP and CLC-mOrange particles at the plasma membrane showed some variation (Fig. 3C), with average lifetimes of 24 ± 8 and 19 ± 7 s, respectively (Fig. 3D). The localization and temporal behavior of μ2-YFP and CLC-mOrange in dark-grown hypocotyls are similar to those of CLC and dynamin-related proteins (DRP1A and DRP2B) in other cell types that have been observed in previous studies (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), which provides support for μ2 playing a role in CME. [[FIGURE]] A cross between mCherry-CESA6 and μ2-YFP lines was performed in order to observe the relationship between CESA6 and μ2 in planta. Like other fluorescent protein-CESA6 fusions (CITATION; CITATION), plasma membrane-localized mCherry-CESA6 formed small puncta that traveled bidirectionally at constant velocities in linear trajectories. μ2-YFP and mCherry-CESA6 particles both localized to distinct foci at the plasma membrane (Fig. 4). Although a small subset of plasma membrane-localized μ2-YFP and mCherry-CESA6 particles were colocalized, the colocalization ratio between the two particle populations was not significantly different from what is expected by coincident overlap of randomly distributed particles (Supplemental Table S1). This observation is consistent with the transient and infrequent nature that would be expected of CESA endocytosis. To investigate whether μ2-YFP and mCherry-CESA6 particles were functionally associated with one another, we observed the temporal behavior of colocalized particles. In some cases, the transient formation and disappearance of μ2-YFP particles was synchronized with a corresponding disappearance or depletion of mCherry-CESA6 fluorescence (Fig. 5; Supplemental Movie S3). These events suggest that μ2-YFP and mCherry-CESA6 are functionally associated at the plasma membrane, where CESAs can be endocytosed through a μ2-mediated mechanism. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Interestingly, μ2-YFP also localized to intracellular compartments that exhibited cytoplasmic streaming behavior and overlapped with mCherry-CESA6-labeled compartments (Fig. 4). Mammalian μ2 is believed to be exclusively involved in endocytosis at the plasma membrane, while other μ homologs mediate trafficking at intracellular compartments. The localization of μ2-YFP to intracellular compartments in Arabidopsis may represent a plant-specific role of μ2. If μ2 mediates the internalization of CESAs, the endocytosis defect of μ2-1 would be expected to affect the distribution of CESAs at the plasma membrane. To investigate the distribution of CESAs, a line expressing YFP-CESA6, which complements the prc1-1 mutation (CITATION), was crossed with μ2-1. The consequent YFP-CESA6 line with a homozygous μ2-1 and prc1-1 background was compared with a YFP-CESA6 control line that was homozygous for prc1-1. To prevent interference from intracellular YFP-CESA6 while analyzing the plasma membrane-localized YFP-CESA6 population, only regions of interest (ROIs) that were devoid of underlying intracellular YFP-CESA6 signal were analyzed (Fig. 6A). To aid in identifying ROIs that lacked intracellular YFP-CESA6 fluorescence, an image (red) was obtained from the focal plane just beneath the plasma membrane (approximately 0.75–1.25 μm under the plasma membrane plane) immediately after the acquisition of each plasma membrane-localized YFP-CESA6 image (green). The distribution of grayscale values from YFP-CESA6 μ2-1 prc1-1 ROIs showed greater fluorescence intensity than ROIs in YFP-CESA6 prc1-1 seedlings (Fig. 6B). In addition, the mean grayscale value of YFP-CESA6 in ROIs was significantly higher in the μ2-1 prc1-1 background compared with the prc1-1 control (Fig. 6C). The particle density of plasma membrane-localized YFP-CESA6 was measured by dividing the number of local foci maxima detected in each ROI by the area of the ROI. Particle density in the μ2-1 prc1-1 background was 1.61 ± 0.15 particles μm−2 compared with 1.26 ± 0.12 particles μm−2 in the prc1-1 background (Fig. 6D). These observations show that μ2-1 mutant seedlings have more YFP-CESA6 at the plasma membrane, which may result from the endocytosis defect of μ2-1. [[FIGURE]] The increased number of YFP-CESA6 particles at the plasma membrane in the μ2-1 prc1-1 background could result from reduced endocytosis of CESAs, increased delivery of CESAs, or both. The delivery rate of YFP-CESA6 in μ2-1 prc1-1 and prc1-1 seedlings was measured by quantifying the delivery of YFP-CESA6 particles within a photobleached ROI during a 5-min period after photobleaching. As intracellular CESA compartments streamed through the ROI, plasma membrane-localized YFP-CESA6 particles reappeared within the bleached area. Similar to previous studies, these plasma membrane-localized particles often exhibited a period of stationary behavior before moving at constant velocities (CITATION; CITATION). Only newly delivered particles and not laterally mobile particles from the perimeter of the bleached ROI were quantified. The delivery rate of YFP-CESA6 particles was similar in μ2-1 prc1-1 and prc1-1 backgrounds (1.86 ± 0.22 and 1.83 ± 0.21 particles μm−2 h−1, respectively; Fig. 7; Supplemental Movie S4). These delivery rates were comparable to previous studies (CITATION; CITATION). These data show that μ2-1 does not affect the rate of YFP-CESA6 delivery to the plasma membrane. Therefore, the elevated density of YFP-CESA6 particles in the μ2-1 prc1-1 background likely results from a reduction in the endocytosis of CESAs due to a lack of μ2 function. [[FIGURE]] To investigate whether the increased density of CESAs at the plasma membrane in μ2-1 influenced the behavior of CESAs, the motility of plasma membrane-localized YFP-CESA6 particles was measured in both the μ2-1 prc1-1 and prc1-1 genetic backgrounds. In both lines, YFP-CESA6 particles traveled bidirectionally at constant velocities along linear tracks that can be visualized in averaged projections of 5-min time-lapse images (Supplemental Fig. S5A). In spite of the increased YFP-CESA6 particle density in the μ2-1 prc1-1 background, the velocity distribution for CESA particles was similar in both μ2-1 prc1-1 and prc1-1 genetic backgrounds, with average velocities of 311 ± 188 nm min−1 in μ2-1 prc1-1 and 322 ± 177 nm min−1 in prc1-1 (Supplemental Fig. S5B; Supplemental Movie S5). This observation suggests that although the distribution of CESAs is affected by μ2-1, the function of YFP-CESA6 at the plasma membrane may not be significantly affected by μ2-1.
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) μ2-1 homozygous line SALK_083693 was identified from the SIGnAL collection (CITATION) using primers listed in Supplemental Table S3. Seeds of SALK_083693 were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center at Ohio State University. Homozygous YFP-CESA6 prc1-1 seeds (line A6Y-11) were obtained from Chris Somerville (Energy Bioscience Institute, University of California). YFP-CESA6 prc1-1 was crossed with μ2-1 to generate the YFP-CESA6 μ2-1 prc1-1 line (YG103). μ2-1 was genotyped via PCR (Supplemental Table S3), and prc1-1 was genotyped by PCR followed by HpyCH4V digestion. To generate the μ2-YFP transgenic line, a genomic DNA fragment of μ2 including a 1,027-bp promoter and the full-length coding region except for the 3′ untranslated region was amplified using primers listed in Supplemental Table S3 and cloned into the PCR8/GW/TOPO vector (Life Technologies). After sequencing, the genomic fragment of μ2 was introduced into the pEarlyGate 311 vector (Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center) using Gateway LR Clonase (Invitrogen). The verified μ2-YFP (pYG108) construct was then introduced into μ2-1 plants by Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation. T2 homozygous lines (YG104 and YG105) were selected for further analysis. To generate the mCherry-CESA6 transgenic line, the approximately 2-kb CESA6 promoter was amplified with flanking HindIII and XbaI sites, cloned into the PCR8/GW/TOPO vector (Life Technologies), sequenced, and cloned into the pGWB2 vector using HindIII and XbaI (Supplemental Table S3). mCherry and the CESA6 coding sequence were amplified, ligated together at an introduced XbaI site, and cloned into the PCR8/GW/TOPO vector (Supplemental Table S3). After sequencing, mCherry-CESA6 was cloned into the pGWB2 vector that contained the native CESA6 promoter using Gateway LR Clonase (Life Technologies) to produce pYG109. pYG109 was transformed into prc1-1 by A. tumefaciens-mediated transformation and screened for hygromycin resistance, complementation of the prc1-1 phenotype, and fluorescence. Transgenic lines selected for further analysis were designated YG106 and YG107. The full-length coding sequences of CESA3, CESA6, μ2, and μ2MHD were PCR amplified and cloned into the PCR8/GW/TOPO vector using primers in Supplemental Table S3. Sequenced CESA constructs were cloned into the bait Cub-PLV vector, pMetYCgate (CITATION), by Gateway cloning (Life Technologies). pMetYCgate harbors the LEU2 gene for selection with Leu-dropout medium. Sequenced μ2 constructs were cloned into the prey Nub vectors, pXNgate21 and pNXgate33, by Gateway cloning (Life Technologies). pXNgate21 and pNXgate33 vectors contain the TRP1 gene for selection with Trp-dropout medium. The prey expression was regulated by the ADH1 promoter. The bait expression was regulated by the Met-25 promoter, so the expression could be repressed by the addition of Met to increase the stringency of the assay. The yeast strain THY.AP4 was cotransformed with Nub and Cub constructs. Cotransformants were selected on synthetic medium lacking Leu and Trp. The interaction was selected on synthetic medium that lacked Leu, Trp, and His and contained 30 mm 3-ammonium-triazole or 1.0 mm Met to increase stringency. The β-galactosidase activity was determined by supplementing the medium with 80 mg L−1 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-galactopyranoside. The μ2MHD coding sequence was cloned into the pGEX-KG vector in frame with a GST tag and expressed in BL21Star-pLysS Escherichia coli. Protein expression was induced with 1 mm isopropyl β-d-1-thiogalactopyranoside at 30°C for 4 to 6 h. Protein purification was performed as described previously (CITATION). The coding sequences of the central domains of CESA1, CESA3, and CESA6 were cloned into YG201, which provides a His tag protein fusion, and expressed in BL21-CodonPlus (DE3)-RIPL E. coli. Protein was induced after a 30-min 15°C cold shock with 1 mm isopropyl β-d-1-thiogalactopyranoside at 15°C for 20 h. Protein purification was performed as described previously (CITATION). Resin-bound GST-μ2MHD protein was washed twice in interaction buffer (20 mm HEPES, pH 7.4, 1 mm EDTA, 5 mm MgCl2, 1 mm dithiothreitol, and 0.1% Triton X-100) for equilibration. Aliquots of approximately 2 μg of equilibrated resin-bound GST-μ2MHD protein were incubated with approximately 2 μg of soluble His-CESA1, His-CESA3, or His-CESA6 central domain protein in a total volume of 1 mL of interaction buffer for 2 h at 4°C on a rocker. The resin was then washed six times with interaction buffer, resuspended in SDS loading buffer, boiled, and subjected to SDS-PAGE and western blotting for analysis. On western blots, His-CESA proteins were detected on film by chemiluminescence using a horseradish peroxidase-conjugated His antibody and SuperSignal West Femto substrate (Thermo). FM4-64 (Invitrogen) was stored at −20°C in 10 mm stock aliquots in 100% dimethyl sulfoxide and diluted to 2 μm for use. FM4-64 was protected from light at all times. Seedlings were grown for 4 d on vertical Murashinge and Skoog plates (one-half-strength Murashinge and Skoog medium, 0.8% agar, 0.05% monohydrate MES, and 1% Suc, pH 5.7) on a 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle at 22°C. Whole seedlings were incubated in 1 mL of 2 μm FM4-64 on a gentle rocker for 3 min prior to imaging. Slides were prepared with 2 μm FM4-64 solution, and images of root meristematic epidermal cells were obtained in 30-s increments at time points from 6.5 to 8.5 min after the initial introduction into FM4-64 (3.5–5.5 min after a 3-min FM4-64 incubation). FM4-64 internalization was quantified using ImageJ software (W. Rasband, National Institutes of Health). Three values were obtained from each individually analyzed cell: the mean intensity of the plasma membrane signal, the mean intensity of the entire cytosol, and the mean intensity of an area of the cytosol lacking observable FM4-64 particles (background intensity). To calculate the uptake values, the mean background intensity was subtracted from the mean cytosolic intensity and the difference was divided by the mean plasma membrane intensity of each cell. Uptake values were normalized by dividing each uptake value by the average uptake value of the wild-type samples. Etiolated hypocotyls were grown on vertical Murashinge and Skoog plates lacking Suc in the dark at 22°C for 3 d. Images were obtained of epidermal cells within 2 mm of the apical hook. Imaging was performed on a Yokogawa CSUX1 spinning-disk system featuring a DMI6000 Leica motorized microscope, a Photometrics QuantEM:512SC CCD camera, and a Leica 100×/1.4 numerical aperture oil objective. An ATOF laser with three laser lines (440/491/561 nm) was used to enable fast shuttering and switching between different excitations. Band-pass filters (485/30 nm for cyan fluorescent protein, 520/50 nm for GFP, 535/30 nm for YFP, and 620/60 nm for red fluorescent protein) were used for emission filtering. Image analysis was performed using Metamorph (Molecular Devices), ImageJ, and Imaris (Bitplane) software. For plasma membrane CESA particle density measurements, a single optical section image was obtained at the plasma membrane followed by a second image at the Golgi plane about 1 μm below the membrane focal plane. The Golgi image was used as a reference in selecting a ROI of plasma membrane-localized CESA that lacked underlying Golgi fluorescence in order to avoid interference from Golgi-localized CESA. The area of the ROI was measured with ImageJ. The histogram tool in ImageJ was used to record the grayscale values of all pixels within the ROI of eight-bit images. The “find maxima” tool of ImageJ was used for particle detection within the ROI. An identical noise threshold was used for all analyses and was visually inspected for accurate representation of the particles. For CESA particle dynamics analysis, a time series was obtained with a time interval of 5 s and a duration of 5 min. In ImageJ, the average intensity projection of the 5-min time-series images was used to visualize the tracks followed by CESA particles. Velocities of CESA particles along these tracks were measured in ImageJ using kymographs. Velocity measurements that were made computationally in Imaris were in agreement with the ImageJ measurements and used for analysis. For the colocalization analyses, the overlap of manually selected plasma membrane-localized particles within a ROI was analyzed as a percentage of one particle population that overlapped with the other and vice versa. Pearson correlation coefficients were calculated in ImageJ using the Pearson\x{2013}Spearman correlation colocalization plugin as described (CITATION). The colocalization coincidence expected by the random distribution of particles was calculated by performing the same analyses on images in which one channel was rotated 180° relative to the other. The F1 line of the μ2-YFP/CLC-mOrange cross and the F2 line of the μ2-YFP/mCherry-CESA6 cross were analyzed. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers listed in Supplemental Table S2. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. μ2 was identified as a putative CESA6-interactive protein using a conventional YTH screen. Supplemental Figure S2. The μ2-1 mutant shows morphological phenotypes. Supplemental Figure S3. μ2 is ubiquitously expressed. Supplemental Figure S4. μ2-YFP complements μ2-1, has punctate distribution at the plasma membrane, and exhibits appearing and disappearing behavior at the plasma membrane. Supplemental Figure S5. YFP-CESA6 motility is similar in the μ2-1 prc1-1 and prc1-1 backgrounds. Supplemental Table S1. Colocalization quantification of μ2-YFP/CLC-mOrange and μ2-YFP/mCherry-CESA6. Supplemental Table S2. Homology between Arabidopsis μ proteins and human μ2 protein and between Arabidopsis μ proteins and Arabidopsis μ2. Supplemental Table S3. Primers used in this study. Supplemental Movie S1. μ2-YFP particles display transient appearing and disappearing behavior at the plasma membrane. Supplemental Movie S2. Colocalized μ2-YFP and CLC-mOrange particles exhibit the same temporal behavior. Supplemental Movie S3. The disappearance of a plasma membrane-localized mCherry-CESA6 particle occurs with the concomitant appearance and disappearance of a colocalized μ2-YFP particle. Supplemental Movie S4. The delivery of YFP-CESA6 particles within a photobleached region is shown during a 5-min interval after bleaching. Supplemental Movie S5. The dynamics of plasma membrane-localized YFP-CESA6 particles is similar in prc1-1 and μ2-1 prc1-1 genetic backgrounds.
