!~ABS~! The local distribution of both the vacuolar-type proton ATPase (V-ATPase) and the vacuolar-type proton pyrophosphatase (V-PPase), the main vacuolar proton pumps, was investigated in intact vacuoles isolated from Arabidopsis suspension-cultured cells. Fluorescent immunostaining showed that V-PPase was distributed evenly on the vacuolar membrane (VM), but V-ATPase localized to specific regions of the VM. We hypothesize that there may be membrane microdomains on the VM. To confirm this hypothesis, we prepared detergent-resistant membranes (DRMs) from the VM in accordance with well established conventional methods. Analyses of fatty acid composition suggested that DRMs had more saturated fatty acids compared with the whole VM in phosphatidylcholine and phosphatidylethanolamine. In the proteomic analyses of both DRMs and detergent-soluble mebranes (DSMs), we confirmed the different local distributions of V-ATPase and V-PPase. The observations of DRMs with an electron microscope supported the existence of different areas on the VM. Moreover, it was observed using total internal reflection fluorescent microscopy (TIRFM) that proton pumps were frequently immobilized at specific sites on the VM. In the proteomic analyses, we also found that many other vacuolar membrane proteins are distributed differently in DRMs and DSMs. Based on the results of this study, we discuss the possibility that VM microdomains might contribute to vacuolar dynamics.
!~RES~! In order to visualize the distribution of V-ATPases and V-PPases, isolated intact vacuoles were immunostained and observed with a confocal laser microscope (Fig. 1). Counterstaining of the immunostained vacuole with FM 4-64, a lipophilic dye, to visualize the VM (Fig. 1B, F) frequently stained intravacuolar structures (Fig. 1F). Fluorescence from V-ATPase or V-PPase overlapped with that of FM 4-64 (Fig. 1C, G) in the VM, and it appeared that V-ATPase was clustered in small areas on the isolated vacuole, but V-PPase was more evenly distributed (Fig. 1A, E).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The differential distribution of V-ATPase and V-PPase was confirmed by staining them together on the same VM and visualizing them at different wavelengths (Fig. 1I). When focused on the equatorial plane of the vacuole, the fluorescence from the V-ATPase was observed as discrete large dots at only a few locations, whereas the fluorescence from the V-PPase was relatively even. The variation in distribution was more obvious when focusing on the surface of the vacuole (Fig. 1J), which revealed a large number of small fluorescent spots (magenta: V-PPase) and a smaller number of much large spots (green: V-ATPase). Fig. 2A and B shows the fluorescent images of V-ATPase or V-PPase captured by total internal reflection fluorescent microscopy (TIRFM). Almost all fluorescent signals actively moved on the membrane (Supplementary Videos S1, S2). The behavior of fluorescent spots was traced for 60 frames (2 s) and plotted (Fig. 2C, D). Both V-ATPase and V-PPase often remained still at certain places on the VM for a short time. Diffusion coefficients were calculated from the trace of fluorescence signals for 30 frames (1 s). The coefficients of V-ATPase were calculated from 154 traces, and that of V-PPase from 157 traces. Fig. 2E shows the distribution of all calculated values. The average values were similar (V-ATPase, 0.832 ± 0.442 µm2 s−1; V-PPase, 0.879 ± 0.398 µm2 s−1), but the medians were clearly different (V-ATPase, 0.735 µm2 s−1; V-PPase, 0.810 µm2 s−1) (P = 0.0456).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We hypothesized that the different behavior of the two H+ pumps on the same vacuole resulted from the existence of membrane microdomains in the VM. Thus, DRMs and DSMs (detergent-soluble membranes) of the isolated intact vacuoles were purified by conventional methods. DRM and DSM proteins (10 µg) were separated on an SDS–polyacrylamide gel (Fig. 3A). The band patterns visualized with silver staining were different between DRMs and DSMs. In order to compare the V-ATPase and V-PPase content of each fraction, we conducted Western blotting using purified specific antibodies against V-ATPase A-subunit (VHA-A), V-ATPase E-subunit (VHA-E) or V-PPase (AVP1). Both VHA-A and VHA-E subunit proteins were more strongly detected in the DRM fraction than in the DSM fraction (Fig. 3B, C). On the other hand, V-PPase (AVP1) was more abundant in the DSM fraction (Fig. 3D).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The lipid composition of the whole VM and the vacuolar DRMs were analysed by liquid chromatography–tandem mass spectromety (LC-MS/MS) (Fig. 3E–J). Phosphatidylcholine (PC), phosphatidylethanolamine (PE), phosphatidylinositol (PI), phosphatidylglycerol (PG) and lysophosphatidylcholine (LysoPC) were detected in the VM. Peak 1 and Peak 2 in Fig. 3E show that the VM contains other lipid species that do not correspond to the common phospholipids. The DRM fraction mainly consisted of PE and PC (Fig. 3F). Glycosylceramide (GlcCer) was also detected in both fractions with a retention time around 7.5–8.5 min. The fatty acid composition was also analyzed by LC-MS/MS. Fig. 3G, H and I, J shows the distribution of the m/z for PC and PE. The number of carbon and double bonds in fatty acids were presented as the sum of the two fatty acids of each lipid molecule. DRMs had more saturated fatty acids (Fig. 3H, J) compared with the whole VM in PC and PE (Fig. 3G, I). As for GlcCers, variation in the saturation ratio was observed in the very long chain fatty acids (Supplementary Fig. S1). The microstructures of the VM and vacuolar DRM were also examined with an electron microscope (Fig. 4). The VM was observed as aggregates of small membrane vesicles (Fig. 4A, C), whereas the vacuolar DRM was observed as membrane fragments (Fig. 4B). Each fragment of the vacuolar DRM was very small with a large curvature (Fig. 4D, E). Further, we confirmed the accumulation of V-ATPase on the vacuolar DRM with immunoelectron microscopy (Fig. 4F–I). Fig. 4F and G shows the localization of gold particles indicating V-ATPase or V-PPase on the VM. Both antibodies showed similar distributions. This was also confirmed using the isolated VM fractions (Supplementary Fig. S2). In the vacuolar DRM fraction, gold particles against V-ATPase (Fig. 4H) located much more than those against V-PPase (Fig. 4I).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The composition of the membrane fractions was examined by proteomic analysis. The analyses were conducted three times and revealed 474 unique proteins. Of these, 382 were found in DSMs and 185 in DRMs. All identified proteins are listed in Supplementary Table S1. In Tables 1–3, proteins which have >5 matched peptides are listed.  Tables 1–3 and Supplementary Table S1 show identified proteins with the locus, annotations by TAIR 10, the number of matched peptides and the number of transmembrane domains. The numbers of matched peptides indicate the total number of peptides detected in one experiment, and are shown for a rough estimation of the total amount of each protein. Table 1 shows the list of subunits of the proton pumps. Almost all subunits of V-ATPase were identified in DRMs. The numbers of matched peptides of these subunits in DRMs significantly exceeded those in DSMs. The numbers of VHA-E2 and VHA-a1 were small compared with those of other isoforms. AVP1 was slightly more prevalent in DSMs than in DRMs. Many types of transporters and channels were found in both fractions (Table 2; Supplementary Table S1). Nineteen ABC transporters (five ABCB type, 11 ABCC type, one ABCG type, one ABCI type and one other ABC transporter) were identified in the present study. Most of the ABCC-type transporters were mainly present in DSMs, while more ABCB-type and ABCG-type transporters were detected in DRMs than in DSMs. MATE family transporters were mainly identified in DSMs, while ion transporters, sugar transporters, Ca2+-ATPase and channels were detected in both DRMs and DSMs. Membrane traffic-related proteins were identified (Table 3). In particular, ESCRT-III complex-related proteins were localized in DRMs, and small G proteins were localized in DSMs. Some dynamin-like proteins were identified in DRMs. Band 7 family proteins were detected in DRMs much more than in DSMs.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana suspension-cultured cells (Deep) (Arabidopsis Col-0 cell suspension) were kindly supplied by Dr. Umeda (NAIST) (CITATION) and were cultured in modified Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 4.5 µM 2,4-D and 3% sucrose with rotation at 125 r.p.m. at 23°C in the dark (TAITEC, BioShaker BR-43FL). Vacuoles were isolated from suspension-cultured cells (7 d old) according to CITATION. The protoplasts were prepared by enzymatic treatment and treated with hypotonic buffer to burst only the PM. The intact vacuoles released from protoplasts were collected by Percoll density gradient centrifugation. Purity of the vacuole fraction has been confirmed by the measurements of marker enzymes and Western blotting (CITATION). The VM microdomains were collected as the DRM fraction from isolated vacuoles prepared from >40 g (FW) of suspension-cultured cells. Isolated vacuoles were lysed by diluting with 4 vols. of buffer [30 mM HEPES adjusted to pH 7.2 with Tris, 30 mM potassium gluconate, 2 mM MgCl2, 2 mM EGTA, 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (PMSF) and 0.5 mg ml−1 leupeptin]. VMs were collected by centrifugation at 120,000×g for 75 min. The pellet was resuspended with TNE buffer (25 mM Tris adjusted to pH 7.5 with HCl, 150 mM NaCl and 5 mM EDTA), and recollected by centrifugation at 120,000×g for 75 min. The washed VMs were resuspended in TNE buffer, and the quantity of protein was determined. This suspended membrane was treated with Triton X-100 (1% final concentration, detergent : protein = 5 : 1) for 30 min at 4°C. Solubilized VMs were placed at the bottom of a centrifuge tube and mixed with 60% sucrose (w/w, dissolved in TNE buffer) to reach a final concentration of 45–50%. A discontinuous sucrose gradient [35, 30, 5% sucrose (w/w), dissolved in TNE buffer] was overlaid. After centrifugation for 16 h at 150,000×g, DRMs were recovered at the boundary between 30% and 35%. The bottom layer was collected as the DSMs. Rabbit polyclonal antibodies against peptides in V-ATPase A subunit (VHA-A) (Cys-TKAREVLQREDDLNEI), V-PPase (AVP1) (Cys-DLVGKIERNIPEDDPRN) and V-ATPase E subunit (VHA-E) (Cys-SVSAEEEFNIEKLQLVEAEKKKIRQ) were prepared (SIGMA-ALDRICH JAPAN). These antibodies were purified using an antigenic peptide-conjugated column to remove non-specific antibodies. The specificities of purified antibodies against VM proteins were confirmed by Western blot analysis of purified VMs (Supplementary Fig. S4). Isolated vacuoles were stained with purified specific antibodies against V-ATPase or V-PPase. Fluorescently labeled F(ab)2 fragment [Zenon Alexa Fluor 488 (or 594) Rabbit IgG Labeling Kit, Molecular Probes Inc.] was used as a secondary antibody. The purified antibody was incubated with the fluorescently labeled F(ab)2 fragment for 10 min at room temperature. Isolated vacuoles were incubated with the labeled specific antibody for 30 min at 4°C. The stained isolated vacuoles were collected by Percoll density gradient centrifugation. TIRFM was used to confirm the behavior of proton pumps in isolated vacuoles. The images were captured with a C9100 EM-CCD camera (Hamamatsu Co.) controlled by MetaMorph software (Molecular Devices) on a Nikon TE2000-U microscope at an excitation wavelength of 690 nm. Fluorescently labeled F(ab)2 fragment (Zenon Alexa Fluor 700 Rabbit IgG Labeling Kit, Molecular Probes Inc.) was used as a secondary antibody. Fluorescent labeling and immunostaining were conducted as described above. Movies were captured at 33 ms per frame for 10 s, and smoothed with spatial smoothing filtering. Movement of the object and its behavior were quantified with MetaMorph software. Experiments were repeated twice, and >150 fluorescent spots were measured from >15 randomly selected isolated vacuoles. For the analysis, it was hypothesized that a membrane protein performs a random walk in a two-dimensional lattice according to the equation <r2> = 4Dt, where <r2> represents the mean square displacement of the trace, D the diffusion coefficient and t the time (CITATION). <r2> vs. t plots were generated and the diffusion coefficient was determined from the slope. Median tests were carried out with JMP software (SAS Institute). The VM and vacuolar DRMs were pelleted at 120,000×g for 60 min. Chemical fixation and embedding were carried out according to CITATION. The agarose blocks were dehydrated with an ethanol series and propylene oxide and then embedded in Spurr’s resin. Ultra-thin sections, 60 nm thick, were stained with uranyl acetate and lead citrate, and observed with a transmission electron microscope (JEM-1200EXα; JEOL Ltd.). For post-embedding immunoelectron microscopic observation, we used Arabidopsis suspension-cultured cells (Deep) cultured for 7 d. Cells were pre-fixed with a fixative containing 4% paraformaldehyde, 100 mM HEPES and 0.4% glutaraldehyde in distilled water for 30 min at room temperature, washed three times with 50 mM HEPES and dehydrated with ethanol (50%, 70%) for 10 min each at 0°C and in a series of ethanol (90, 95, 99%, and twice with 100%) for 10 min each at −20°C. After dehydration, samples were infiltrated with LR-White resin (London Resin Co.) at −20°C as follows: ethanol : resin (3 : 1) for 2 h, ethanol : resin (1 : 1) for 2 h, ethanol : resin (1 : 3) for 2 h, and then two changes of pure resin for 2 h each. Cells were then embedded and polymerized with UV light at −20°C for 48 h. Samples were sectioned with a diamond knife on an ultramicrotome (EM UC7, Leica Microsystems). Thin sections were blocked with 1% BSA (bovine serum albumin) in PBS (phosphate-buffered saline) for 1 h at room temperature, incubated for 1 h at room temperature with the rabbit anti-isolated protein polyclonal antibody diluted 1 : 500 in PBS, followed by a 1 h incubation at room temperature with the anti-rabbit IgG conjugated with 10 nm gold particles (EM GAR10, BB International) diluted 1 : 20 in PBS. Thin sections were then washed with PBS, followed by post-fixation with 1% glutaraldehyde in distilled water for 10 min at room temperature, and finally washed with distilled water. After staining with 3% aqueous uranyl acetate for 15 min and lead citrate stain for 5 min at room temperature, specimens were observed with a transmission electron microscope (H-7100, Hitachi). VM and vacuolar DRM fractions were washed with TNE buffer to remove Percoll and detergent. Washed membranes were pelleted at 120,000×g for 60 min, re-dissolved in distilled water and lyophilized. Total lipids were extracted from dried VM and DRM according to CITATION, and then subjected to LC-MS analysis using a Shimadzu IT-TOF mass spectrometer combined with a Shimadzu LC-20AD HPLC system as reported previously (CITATION). After vacuolar DRM and DSM fractions were collected, equal volumes of 20% trichloroacetic acid were added. Proteins were collected by centrifugation at 120,000×g for 15 min, and washed three times with acetone. These specimens were diluted in the sample buffer [3.4% SDS, 30% glycerol, 2% 2-mercaptoethanol, 0.25 M Tris (pH 6.8) and 0.012% Bromophenol blue], incubated at 55°C for 5 min and applied to a pre-cast acrylamide gel (DRC, Perfect NT gel 10% A.A.). The separated proteins were stained with Flamingo (BIO-RAD). Gel lanes were sliced into 15 bands. Each slice was washed twice with HPLC-grade water containing 60% (v/v) acetonitrile (Kanto 17 Chemical) then alkylated with 5 mM ditiothreitol (for 1 h at 37°C) and 25 mM iodoacetamide (in the dark for 1 h at room temperature). After washing twice with HPLC-grade water containing 60% (v/v) acetonitrile, specimens were digested with 0.25 µg of trypsin (Promega) in 25 mM ammonium bicarbonate for 16 h at 37°C. Digested peptide fragments were extracted from the cut gels by 5% (v/v) formic acid and 50% (v/v) acetonitrile for 15 min. The solutions containing the digested peptides were dried in a vacuum concentrator, and the dried samples were dissolved in 0.1% (v/v) formic acid and 5% (v/v) acetonitrile. Proteomic analysis was performed by LC-MS/MS using an LTQ-Orbitrap-HTC-PAL system (Thermo Electron) according to CITATION. The range of the MS scan was m/z 200–2,000 and the top three peaks were subjected to MS/MS analysis. Spectra were compared with a protein database from TAIR10 using the MASCOT server. The mascot search parameters were as follows: set off the threshold at 0.05 in the ion-score cut off, peptide tolerance at 10 p.p.m., MS/MS tolerance at ±0.8 Da, peptide charge of 2+ or 3+, trypsin as enzyme allowing up to one missed cleavage, carbamidomethylation on cysteines as a fixed modification and oxidation on methionine as a variable modification. The ARAMEMNON database (release 7, http://aramemnon.botanik.uni-koeln.de/) was used to predict transmembrane domains in identified proteins. Independent analyses were carried out three times, and the common proteins identified in all analyses were listed. The number of matched peptides can be used as a semi-quantitative reference. It should be noted, however, that the number does not indicate the actual quantity of the original protein, because the number is influenced by the size (molecular weight) of the original protein and/or quantity of peptides from other proteins in the same specimen, etc.
