!~ABS~! NEDD8 (NEURAL PRECURSOR CELL-EXPRESSED, DEVELOPMENTALLY DOWN-REGULATED PROTEIN8) is an evolutionarily conserved 8-kD protein that is closely related to ubiquitin and that can be conjugated like ubiquitin to specific lysine residues of target proteins in eukaryotes. In contrast to ubiquitin, for which a broad range of substrate proteins are known, only a very limited number of NEDD8 target proteins have been identified to date. Best understood, and also evolutionarily conserved, is the NEDD8 modification (neddylation) of cullins, core subunits of the cullin-RING-type E3 ubiquitin ligases that promote the polyubiquitylation of degradation targets in eukaryotes. Here, we show that Myeloid differentiation factor-2-related lipid-recognition domain protein ML3 is an NEDD8- as well as ubiquitin-modified protein in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and examine the functional role of ML3 in the plant cell. Our analysis indicates that ML3 resides in the vacuole as well as in endoplasmic reticulum (ER) bodies. ER bodies are Brassicales-specific ER-derived organelles and, similar to other ER body proteins, ML3 orthologs can only be identified in this order of flowering plants. ML3 gene expression is promoted by wounding as well as by the phytohormone jasmonic acid and repressed by ethylene, signals that are known to induce and repress ER body formation, respectively. Furthermore, ML3 protein abundance is dependent on NAI1, a master regulator of ER body formation in Arabidopsis. The regulation of ML3 expression and the localization of ML3 in ER bodies and the vacuole is in agreement with a demonstrated importance of ML3 in the defense to herbivore attack. Here, we extend the spectrum of ML3 biological functions by demonstrating a role in the response to microbial pathogens.
!~RES~! We have previously used transgenic lines that express hemagglutinin-STREP-tagged NEDD8 (HSN) under the control of a dexamethasone-inducible gene expression system to isolate NEDD8-modified proteins from Arabidopsis (CITATION; CITATION). Using the STREP affinity tag, we were able to purify a number of proteins as putative NEDD8 conjugates from total protein extracts prepared from an HSN line (CITATION). However, our experimental strategy suffered from the weakness that the choice of the purification tag only allowed purifying HSN conjugates under native conditions, so that we may have recovered proteins that are themselves not NEDD8 modified but interact with such conjugates. Therefore, we set out to examine a subset of these putative NEDD8 conjugates more critically with regard to their NEDD8 modification. In this context, we also generated MYC-ML3 lines for the expression of a MYC-tagged variant of the putative NEDD8 conjugate ML3 in the HSN transgenic background. Following immunoprecipitation of the MYC-ML3 fusion protein (calculated mass of 28.3 kD), we could detect the protein with an anti-MYC antibody in two prominent forms of approximately 32 and 44 kD. Detection of HSN conjugates with an anti-hemagglutinin (HA) antibody then revealed the presence of at least two additional HSN-conjugated forms of MYC-ML3 of approximately 55 kD, suggesting that a minor fraction of MYC-ML3 is indeed NEDD8 modified (Fig. 1A). Since our further analysis of the protein sequence revealed that ML3 carries an N-terminal signal peptide that should be proteolytically cleaved during protein transport, we also generated a construct for the expression of a C-terminally tagged ML3, ML3-YFP-HA (where YFP stands for yellow fluorescent protein; calculated mass of 51 kD). Following immunoprecipitation of ML3-YFP-HA, we could again confirm that ML3 is NEDD8 modified, because a fraction of immunoprecipitated ML3-YFP-HA was also recognized by an antibody directed against the endogenous NEDD8 protein, which detected a higher mass form of ML3-YFP-HA that could be explained by the conjugation of the 8-kD NEDD8 (Fig. 1B). We thus concluded that ML3 is indeed a NEDD8-modified protein. [[FIGURE]] Following immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry (MS), we subsequently identified Lys-137 as at least one Lys residue of immunoprecipitated ML3-YFP-HA that carried the di-Gly footprint that is retained on NEDD8- and ubiquitin-modified proteins after trypsin digestion (Supplemental Fig. S1). We then mutagenized Lys-137 and subsequently all other Lys residues of ML3 to Arg with the goal of obtaining a nonneddylatable ML3 variant. However, the NEDD8 modification of ML3 was detected in each of these ML3 mutant variants, indicating that NEDD8 may be attached to multiple or to variant Lys residues in the wild type or the mutated ML3 proteins (Supplemental Fig. S2). The conclusion that ML3 may be neddylated at multiple residues is also supported by our observation that frequently more than one neddylated form of ML3 was apparent in immunoblots following the immunoprecipitation of ML3 and the detection of HSN or endogenous NEDD8 (Fig. 1). In summary, these data suggest that ML3 may be modified by multiple NEDD8 molecules. To be able to detect endogenous ML3 protein, we raised an anti-ML3 peptide antibody that readily detected the 18-kD (calculated) ML3 protein in total protein extracts from wild-type plants. Since we detected HSN-conjugated ML3 following HSN immunoprecipitation, we concluded that also endogenous ML3 is NEDD8 modified (Fig. 2A). We then used the neddylation inhibitor MLN4924 to test whether the modification of ML3 was dependent on the activity of the NEDD8 E1 conjugation enzyme (CITATION). Indeed, ML3 neddylation was reduced following a pretreatment of the plants with MLN4924, suggesting that ML3 is NEDD8 modified by the established NEDD8 conjugation pathway (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; Supplemental Fig. S3). [[FIGURE]] Interestingly, when we immunoprecipitated NEDD8 using the tagged HSN fusion variant, we noted that anti-ML3 did not only detect ML3 as a neddylated HSN conjugate but also ML3 in its apparent unmodified form (Fig. 2A). Similar results were obtained following immunoprecipitations of HSN conjugates from the MYC-ML3 transgenic line (Supplemental Fig. S4). In these immunoprecipitations, we detected specifically the 32-kD variant of MYC-ML3 and not the 44-kD higher mass form (Supplemental Fig. S4), and we took this finding as an indirect indication that the 32-kD variant detected in MYC-ML3 lines represents the neddylatable form of MYC-ML3 (Fig. 1). The 44-kD form, in turn, may represent a posttranslationally modified form that cannot be neddylated and that could result from the protein’s N-terminal signal peptide being blocked by the MYC tag. We reasoned that the appearance of unconjugated ML3 may be the result of an enzymatic deconjugation of HSN-ML3 during the immunoprecipitation procedure. Alternatively, ML3 may bind to NEDD8 or to NEDD8 conjugates in a noncovalent manner. The latter view was supported by an EMBL-European Nucleotide Archive database entry for ML3 that described the protein as a yeast two-hybrid interactor of a ubiquitin pentamer (ABH03542) as well as by the fact that abundant amounts of ML3 were precipitated in the immunoprecipitation experiments that, in our view, could not be explained by the small amounts of NEDD8-modified ML3 detected in immunoblots after HSN immunoprecipitations. To test whether ML3 can be covalently linked to ubiquitin, we carried out immunoprecipitations from transgenic lines that express HSUB, a construct analogous to HSN for the inducible expression of an HA-STREP-tagged ubiquitin. Indeed, we could detect ML3 also in the form of a high-mass ubiquitin conjugate of approximately 150 kD in the HSUB immunoprecipitates (Fig. 2B). Thus, we concluded that ML3 is a NEDD8-conjugated as well as a ubiquitin-conjugated protein in vivo. While we detected small amounts of the apparently unmodified ML3 variant also in several HSUB-ML3 purifications (data not shown), this form of ML3 was absent in others. Therefore, we reasoned that the copurification of the unmodified ML3 is the result of a deconjugation of ML3 from HSUB-ML3 (e.g. by deubiquitylating enzymes) that occurred during the immunoprecipitation of HSUB conjugates. Similarly, ML3 may be deconjugated from HSN-ML3 in the respective immunoprecipitations of HSN. To test whether NEDD8 and ubiquitin can interact with ML3 also in a noncovalent manner, we tested their interactions using the yeast two-hybrid system. Indeed, this interaction analysis revealed that ML3 readily interacts with both ubiquitin family proteins in the yeast system (Fig. 2C). Analysis of the expression of the fusion proteins in yeast confirmed that all proteins were expressed, but interestingly, also that the GAL4 activation domain fusion protein fused to NEDD8 (AD-NEDD8) was conjugated to a broad range of proteins in the yeast host (Fig. 2D). No such conjugates could be detected in the case of activation domain-ubiquitin (AD-UBQ), possibly reflecting the fact that such ubiquitin conjugates are directly targeted for proteasomal degradation. ML3 is encoded by the Arabidopsis gene AT5G23820. ML3 has two closely related putative paralogs adjacent to the ML3 locus on chromosome 5 of the Arabidopsis genome, namely ML5 (AT5G23840; 76% amino acid identity to ML3) and ML6 (AT5G23830; 73% identity; Fig. 3A). Additionally, these three ML domain proteins share sequence homology with a number of proteins from Arabidopsis and B. rapa and with other proteins from non-Brassicaceae species, such as the dicots tomato (Solanum lycopersicum), grapevine (Vitis vinifera), and soybean (Glycine max) and the monocots rice (Oryza sativa) and Brachypodium distachyon (Fig. 3; Supplemental Figs. S5 and S6). Although the genomes of both Arabidopsis and B. rapa encode three ML3-like proteins, namely Arabidopsis ML3, ML5, and ML6 and B. rapa Bra020976, Bra028884, and Bra011987, the three ML3 paralogs of each species are more closely related to each other than to the proteins from the respective other species, suggesting that they originated from independent duplication events (Fig. 3B; Supplemental Fig. S5). [[FIGURE]] Based on the current annotation of these proteins, the vast majority of ML3-related proteins from Arabidopsis and B. rapa contains an N-terminal signal peptide, which suggests that these proteins are directed to the ER and from there targeted to the vacuole or the secretory pathway (Fig. 3A; CITATION). The remaining part of these ML proteins has sequence homology with the lipid recognition domain of the mammalian ML domain proteins MD-2 and NPC2 (Supplemental Fig. S6; CITATION; CITATION). However, the restricted homology within this domain does not allow drawing any conclusions on the binding specificity of any of the Arabidopsis proteins (Supplemental Fig. S6). Based on their homology to MD-2, the members of this protein family were previously classified as ML proteins; however, none of the plant ML domain proteins have been characterized at the biochemical, cell biological, or functional level as yet (CITATION). We also noted with interest that proteins closely related to ML3 can only be found in Brassicales species, including Arabidopsis and B. rapa, or inversely that these proteins are seemingly absent from the genomes of non-Brassicales dicots, monocots, the moss Physcomitrella patens, and the lycophyte Selaginella moellendorffii (Fig. 3B; Supplemental Fig. S5). In order to understand the biological function of ML3, we examined two putative ml3 alleles with transfer DNA (T-DNA) insertions in the ML3 open reading frame and 3′ untranslated region, ml3-3 (SALK_001255) and ml3-4 (SAIL_182_G07; Fig. 4A). Our subsequent analysis of ML3 protein abundance in the ml3-3 and ml3-4 mutants showed that ML3 protein cannot be detected in ml3-3 and ml3-4 (Fig. 4B). While this work was in progress, two additional mutant alleles, ml3-1 (SALK_059591) and ml3-2 (SALK_091638), were described as part of another study of genes related to the defense to herbivores (CITATION). While this study had associated semidwarfed growth with ml3-1 and ml3-2, we could not detect such a phenotype in ml3-3 and ml3-4 when grown in continuous light growth conditions (Fig. 4C). For our further work, we considered the exon insertion allele ml3-3 as the prototypical ml3 mutant allele. [[FIGURE]] In order to understand the intracellular distribution of ML3, we generated transgenic lines that express ML3 as a fusion with the fluorescent protein mCherry under the control of a 2-kb ML3 promoter fragment (ML3p:ML3-mCherry). Our analysis of transgenic lines expressing this protein revealed that the protein accumulates in the vacuole as well as in rod-shaped structures that we identified as ER bodies based on their size and shape. This was also supported by their partial colocalization with the marker Q4, which highlights the membranes of ER bodies as well as the cellular ER network, and by their exclusive presence in the seedling epidermis and the cotyledons (Fig. 5A). The ER body localization of ML3 was also verified in lines expressing ML3-YFP from the ML3 promoter fragment (ML3p:ML3-YFP; Fig. 5B). In turn, ML3p:ML3-YFP lines did not allow us to visualize the vacuolar localization of ML3 (Fig. 5C), most likely due to the fact that GFP and the closely related YFP are degraded in the vacuole (CITATION). To confirm the vacuole and ER body localization for the endogenous ML3, we purified vacuoles and performed a subcellular fractionation based on previously established protocols (CITATION; CITATION). In these analyses, we identified endogenous ML3 in vacuolar preparations from 14-d-old seedlings where ML3 cofractionated with the marker vacuolar ATPase (Fig. 5D). To resolve ER bodies, we performed centrifugation of protein extracts at 1,000g from a transgenic line expressing the ER marker GFP-HDEL. Interestingly, ML3 could not be retrieved in the 1,000g fraction that contains the ER bodies, suggesting that native ML3 may not reside in ER bodies and that the ER body localization of ML3-mCherry may be an artifact of the protein fusion (Fig. 5D). In turn, we detected ML3 in the soluble S100 fraction, in line with its localization to the vacuole. Identical fractionations of the YFP-tagged ML3-YFP-HA, however, confirmed the proposed ER body localization also for ML3-YFP-HA (Fig. 5E). In summary, we concluded that ML3 is a vacuolar protein that may potentially also reside in ER bodies. [[FIGURE]] The vacuolar localization of ML3 observed here is in agreement with the results of a previously published proteomics study that had identified ML3 in vacuoles of Arabidopsis plants (CITATION). Interestingly, ML3 was also identified in another proteomics study that aimed at the identification of proteins that are secreted in response to treatments with the plant hormone salicylic acid (SA; CITATION). Since ML3 had been shown to be involved in the plant’s defense to herbivore attack, which induces SA responses (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), we reasoned that ML3 may relocalize to the extracellular space in response to activation of the SA pathway. While we noticed indeed a presence of ML3-mCherry after SA treatment (2 h), our subsequent analyses indicated that this is likely artifactual, because it was also found with the unrelated vacuolar lumen marker sp-RFP-AFVY (CITATION) and because ML3-mCherry secretion was the apparent result of pH changes and did not occur in buffered solutions or in the presence of mannitol (Supplemental Fig. S7). To gain further insight into the function of ML3, we searched for genes that are coexpressed with ML3. Through the analysis of all available microarray data sets deposited in Genevestigator, we identified a number of coexpressed genes and noticed with interest that eight genes among the first 20 coregulated genes had a demonstrated or proposed function in ER body biology or formation (Table I). This set of coregulated genes included NAI1, a basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor essential for ER body formation, as well as proposed NAI1 target genes such as NAI2 and PYK10 (CITATION). Since ML3 had also been found to be differentially expressed in a comparison of nai1 mutants with the wild type, we hypothesized that NAI1 may regulate ML3 gene expression. This assumption found support in our observation that ML3 expression was strongly reduced in the nai1 mutant nai1-3 (GK-136G06-012754; Fig. 6A). Since nai1 mutants are defective in the formation of ER bodies and since we had identified ML3 as a putative ER body protein, we questioned whether the apparent absence of ML3 protein in the nai1 mutant was the consequence of the absence of NAI1 as its transcriptional regulator or the indirect consequence of the absence of ER bodies in this mutant. To address this question, we examined ML3 protein abundance also in nai2-2 (SALK_005896) and nai2-3 (SALK_043149) mutants. NAI2 is a protein of unknown function in ER bodies that is essential for ER body formation but does not have an apparent function related to transcriptional regulation (CITATION). Importantly, ML3 protein was detectable in nai2 but, as mentioned above, absent in nai1, suggesting that the absence of ML3 in nai1 is the result of the absence of the transcriptional regulation by NAI1 rather than the indirect consequence of the absence of ER bodies (Fig. 6C). Inversely, we found no evidence that the absence of ML3 in ml3-3 has an influence on the formation of ER bodies (Supplemental Fig. S8). [[FIGURE]] NAI1 is essential for ER body formation, which is promoted by the plant hormone jasmonic acid (JA; CITATION). It has previously been established that NAI1 transcription is induced by MeJA and reduced in response to ethylene (CITATION). We hypothesized that ML3 expression should follow this pattern of transcriptional regulation of NAI1 if it was a direct NAI1 transcription target. Indeed, we found that the abundance of ML3 and NAI1 as well as the ER body-resident PYK10 gene is induced by MeJA treatments and suppressed by concomitant treatments with the ethylene precursor 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid, which is converted into the gaseous ethylene hormone when taken up by the plant (Fig. 7A). This finding thus supported the notion that ML3 is a direct NAI1 transcription target. [[FIGURE]] MeJA is produced in plants in response to wounding by herbivore pathogens. The knowledge about the regulation of NAI1 and ER body formation by MeJA has given rise to the concept that ER bodies may play a role in the response to pathogens (CITATION). Interestingly, we found ML3 expression in the ML3p:ML3-mCherry lines to be restricted to the epidermis, an observation that could be considered in support of the proposed function in biotic and abiotic interactions with the environment (Fig. 7B). To assess the possibility of a putative regulation of ML3 expression by wounding, we generated transgenic lines that express the reporter GUS under the control of a 2-kb ML3 promoter fragment. Following the wounding of leaves of transgenic lines expressing this ML3p:GUS construct, we observed indeed increased staining at the sites of wounding as well as systemic spreading of the signal over the entire blade of the wounded leaf (Fig. 7C). Since ML3 had previously been analyzed in the context of herbivore defense, we also challenged ML3p:GUS lines with second instar larvae of the herbivore Spodoptera littoralis and found clear evidence for ML3 induction at the sites of wounding after insect feeding (Fig. 7D). In summary, these findings support that notion that ML3 is a transcription target downstream from NAI1 that is induced in response to wounding and herbivore attack. ER bodies have been proposed to function in pathogen responses (CITATION). For this reason, we were interested in examining the performance of ml3 mutants after challenge with the fungal pathogen Alternaria brassicicola and the pathogenic bacterium Pseudomonas syringae DC3000. A. brassicicola is a necrotrophic fungus that induces cell death upon infection. In comparison with the wild type, in which cell lesions were largely restricted to the inoculation spots, ml3 mutants showed increased susceptibility, visible by the increased spreading of necrosis away from the site of infection at 5 d after infection (Fig. 8, A and B). Lesion expansion was associated with an increase of fungal DNA in ml3 mutants and was partially similar to the responses of the camalexin-deficient mutant pad3-1 that has previously been shown to possess enhanced susceptibility to A. brassicicola (CITATION). In the case of the P. syringae infection experiments, we detected reduced pathogen growth 6 d post infiltration in the ml3 mutants when compared with the wild type (Fig. 8, C and D). In quantitative terms, this reduced growth was comparable to the reduced growth observed in the coi1-1 mutant, an established mutant of the P. syringae pathogen response (CITATION). Based on these observations, we concluded that ML3 has a role in pathogen response in Arabidopsis. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! All experiments were performed in the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) ecotype Columbia. Transgenic lines expressing HSN or HSUB were described previously (CITATION). ml3-3 (SALK_001255) and ml3-4 (SAIL_182_G07) were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (NASC) and selected for homozygosity by PCR-based genotyping. nai1-3 (GK-136G06-012754) is a previously uncharacterized allele of NAI1, and nai2-2 (SALK_005896) and nai2-3 (SALK_043149) T-DNA insertion mutants were described previously (CITATION). The nai1 and nai2 mutant seeds were obtained from NASC and selected for homozygosity by genotyping. pad3-1 and coi1-1 are previously published mutants (CITATION; CITATION). The ER marker lines GFP-HDEL and Q4 were also obtained from NASC (CITATION; CITATION). The transgenic sp-RFP-AFVY line was generously provided by Lorenzo Frigerio (University of Warwick). Primer sequences for genotyping are listed in Supplemental Table S1. To generate MYC-ML3, an ML3 entry clone (G13160) was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center and then cloned into pJawohl2B-5xMYC-GW using Gateway technology (Invitrogen). Mutagenesis of MYC-ML3 was performed using DpnI-based site-directed mutagenesis with the primers 19 and 20 (MYC-ML3 K33R), 21 and 22 (MYC-ML3 K68R), 23 and 24 (MYC-ML3 K90R), 25 and 26 (MYC-ML3 K129R), 27 and 28 (MYC-ML3 K137R), 29 and 30 (MYC-ML3 K147R), and 31 and 32 (MYC-ML3 K153R). ML3-YFP-HA was obtained by insertion of a PCR fragment obtained with primers 11 and 12 into the Gateway-compatible vector pEarleyGate101 (CITATION). The constructs for the expression of the ML3 promoter-driven ML3-YFP (ML3p:ML3-YFP) and ML3-mCherry (ML3p:ML3-mCherry) were generated in the following manner. An ML3 promoter gene fragment was amplified by PCR from Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia genomic DNA with the primers 33 and 35 that added a HindIII and a NheI restriction site to the promoter gene termini, respectively. A PCR fragment of the mCherry or YFP coding sequence flanked by NheI and BamHI restriction sites was obtained with primers 38 and 39 (mCherry) or 40 and 41 (YFP), and a 1-kb ML3 terminator fragment flanked by BamHI and XhoI sites was amplified using primers 36 and 37. All fragments were ligated into the HindIII and XhoI restriction sites of pGreen0029 (mCherry) or pGreen0229 (YFP), and the final construct was transformed into the Q4 ER marker line (ML3p:ML3-mCherry; CITATION) or ml3-3 (ML3p:ML3-YFP; CITATION). ML3p:GUS was generated by inserting a 2-kb promoter fragment amplified by PCR (primers 33 and 34) from Arabidopsis Columbia genomic DNA into the vector pCAMBIA1391Z (www.cambia.org/daisy/cambia/). At least 10 transgenic Arabidopsis plants were generated for each construct using the floral dip transformation protocol. T1 seeds were selected for resistance to the respective antibiotic or herbicide as well as for transgene expression. Individual lines were chosen for cell biological and biochemical analyses and for genetic crosses. Primer sequences for cloning are listed in Supplemental Table S1. The yeast two-hybrid construct BD-ML3 was obtained by PCR amplification of the ML3 open reading frame with oligonucleotides 13 and 14 and was then inserted into pGBKT7 as an EcoRI and XhoI fragment. AD-NEDD8 and AD-UBQ were cloned in a similar manner by ligation of the NEDD8/RUB1 (AT1G31340) and UBQ (AT3G52590) open reading frames as EcoRI-XhoI/SalI fragments into pGADT7 AD. Primer sequences are listed in Supplemental Table S1. Extraction of total RNA and complementary DNA synthesis were conducted as described previously (CITATION). The complementary DNA equivalent of 25 ng of total RNA was used in a 10-µL PCR in a CFX96 Real-Time System Cycler with iQ SYBR Green Supermix (Bio-Rad). A 40-cycle two-step amplification protocol (10 s at 95°C, 30 s at 60°C) was used for all measurements. Primer sequences are listed in Supplemental Table S1. Unless otherwise stated, the average and se of four technical replicates pooled from at least two biological replicates are shown. The experiment was repeated at least once, and the result of a representative experiment is shown. The anti-ML3 antibody was raised in rabbits by immunization with a chemically synthesized ML3 peptide (VSLRRKTLEED) coupled to a keyhole limpet hemocyanin carrier protein (Eurogentec). The crude serum was affinity purified against the ML3 peptide, and the purified serum was used in a 1:1,000 dilution for immunoblots. Anti-MYC agarose (Roche) and anti-HA agarose (Roche) were used for immunoprecipitations using 1 to 2 g (fresh weight) from 7-d-old seedlings. The anti-NEDD8 antibody (1:1,000) was described previously (CITATION). The following commercial antibodies were used: anti-CDC2 (1:3,000; Santa Cruz Biotechnology), anti-GAL4 (DNA-binding domain; 1:1,000; Santa Cruz Biotechnology), anti-GFP (1:3,000; Life Technologies), anti-HA-peroxidase (1:1,000; Roche), and anti-vacuolar-ATPase ε-subunit (1:2,000; Agrisera). For GUS staining of ML3p:GUS, the first and second leaves of 16-d-old plants were wounded using a wooden toothpick and fixed, 48 h after wounding, in heptane for 15 min and then incubated in GUS staining solution [100 mm sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.0), 2 mm K4Fe(CN)6, 2 mm K3Fe(CN)6, 0.1% Triton X-100, and 1 mg mL−1 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-glucuronic acid]. GUS-stained seedlings were photographed using a Leica MZ16 stereomicroscope with a PLAN-APOX1 objective (Leica). Herbivore feeding experiments with ML3p:GUS were performed as described (CITATION). Microscopy of fluorescent protein fusions was performed on 5-d-old seedlings using an FV1000/IX81 laser-scanning confocal microscope (Olympus). Subcellular fractionation from 7-d-old seedlings was performed as described previously (CITATION). Vacuoles were purified from 12- to 14-d-old seedlings using a Ficoll gradient as described previously, and vacuolar proteins were subsequently precipitated using TCA (CITATION). For protein digestion, a sample of immunoprecipitated ML3-YFP-HA was reduced and alkylated by 50 mm dithiothreitol and 10 mg mL−1 chloroacetamide, respectively. Tryptic in-gel digestion was performed according to standard procedures. Nanoflow liquid chromatography-tandem MS was performed using an Eksigent nanoLC-Ultra 1D+ system coupled online to an LTQ-Orbitrap Velos (Thermo Scientific) mass spectrometer. Tryptic peptides were dissolved in 20 µL of buffer A (0.1% formic acid in double-distilled water), and 10 µL was injected for each measurement. Peptide samples were first loaded on a trap column (100 µm i.d. × 2 cm, packed in house with 5 µm Reprosil PUR AQ; Dr. Maisch) in 100% buffer A. Peptides were transferred to an analytical column (75-µm × 40-cm C18 column, 3 µm Reprosil PUR AQ Gold; Dr. Maisch) and separated using a 225-min gradient from 7% to 35% buffer B (0.1% formic acid in acetonitrile). MS measurements were performed in data-dependent acquisition mode, automatically subjecting the 10 most abundant precursor ions in the full MS spectra for higher-energy collisional dissociation fragmentation at 30% collision energy. Full MS spectra and tandem MS spectra were acquired at 30,000 and 7,500 resolution, respectively. Intensity-based label-free quantification was performed using Progenesis (version 4.0; Nonlinear Dynamics). The generated peak list was then searched using Mascot (version 2.4.1) against the protein sequence databases National Center for Biotechnology Information non-redundant (download October 26, 2011; 15.8 million sequences) and SwissProt (version 57; 0.5 million sequences) for protein identification. The variable modification of Lys(GlyGly) was considered in the database search in order to identify NEDD8-modified ML3. Protein sequences containing the MD-2-related lipid-recognition domain (PF02221) were retrieved from the Ensembl BioMart database for the dicot species Arabidopsis, Brassica rapa, soybean (Glycine max), tomato (Solanum lycopersicum), and grapevine (Vitis vinifera), the monocot species Brachypodium distachyon and rice (Oryza sativa), as well as the moss Physcomitrella patens and the lycophyte Selaginella moellendorffii. Sequences were aligned with ClustalOmega (www.ebi.ac.uk/Tools/msa/clustalo/) and manually amended when necessary. The phylogenetic tree was constructed based on the amended alignment with MEGA5 using the maximum likelihood method and the bootstrap method with 1,000 bootstrap replications. The tree was rooted with the sequences from P. patens and S. moellendorffii. The cutoff values for the bootstrap analysis were set to 60%, and bootstrap values are indicated by each node. A list of 20 genes coexpressed with ML3 was generated on the basis of 8,689 Affymetrix 22k ATH1 microarray samples using the Genevestigator coexpression tool (www.genevestigator.com). To examine the effects of MeJA and ethylene on ML3 expression, rosette leaves of 16-d-old plants were floated for 12 h on water containing 50 µm MeJA. The ethylene precursor 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (50 µm) was added for the combined treatments with MeJA and ethylene. To examine the cellular distribution of ML3-mCherry and RFP-AVFY, 5-d-old seedlings were treated for 2 h with SA (500 µm), 3-hydroxybenzoic acid (500 µm) dissolved in water, germination medium (4.3 g L−1 Murashige and Skoog medium, 10 g L−1 saccharose, and 0.5 g L−1 MES, pH 5.8) or 0.5 m mannitol or, alternatively, in water, pH 3.5 (HCl). Dexamethasone-inducible transgenes were induced by immersing the plant material overnight in liquid germination medium supplemented with 30 µm dexamethasone (Sigma; CITATION). The yeast two-hybrid assay was performed as described previously (CITATION). Alternaria brassicicola strain MUCL20297 was grown on potato dextrose agar plates for 2 weeks at 22°C. Spores were then harvested and suspended in water (5 × 105 spores mL−1). A. brassicicola inoculation was performed by adding 5-µL drops onto the leaf surface as described previously (CITATION). Two leaves per plant were inoculated with two drops each. Ten plants were taken as one biological replicate, and three biological replicates were used. Five days after challenge, disease severity was scored and samples were collected for pathogen quantification. Disease rating was assessed on the basis of symptom severity (CITATION). For each pathogen assay, inoculated leaves of 10 plants were pooled together and taken as one biological replicate, and three biological replicates were used. Fungal DNA quantification was carried out by quantitative real-time (qRT)-PCR of ABU03393 using the primers 48 and 49. In preparation for a Pseudomonas syringae pv tomato DC3000 experiment, the bacteria were grown overnight in Luria-Bertani medium at 37°C. The cells were centrifuged, and the pellet was washed once with sterile 10 mm MgCl2 and resuspended in 10 mm MgCl2 to an optical density at 600 nm of 0.02 (107 colony-forming units mL−1). Inoculations for the P. syringae pv tomato DC3000 bioassays were performed through pressure infiltration with bacterial suspension into the tissue of the abaxial part of the rosette leaves (two leaves per plant). About 100 µL of suspension was used for each leaf, and 10 plants were infiltrated for one biological replicate. Three biological replicates were used in the study. The experiment was carried out twice, and a representative experiment is shown. Pathogen quantification for P. syringae pv tomato DC3000 was performed by qRT-PCR of NC_004578 using the primers 50 and 51. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers: ML3 (AT5G23820), NEDD8 (AT1G31340), NAI1 (AT2G22770), NAI2 (AT3G15950), PYK10 (AT3G09260), COI1 (AT2G39940), and PAD3 (AT3G26830). GenBank accession numbers of human genes mentioned in this work are MD-2 (AB018549), MD-1 (AF057178), NPC2 (NM_006432) and GM2A (NM_000405). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Mass spectrometric analysis of ML3. Supplemental Figure S2. Mutational analysis of MYC-ML3 protein. Supplemental Figure S3. MLN4924 blocks NEDD8-modification of ML3. Supplemental Figure S4. HSN-immunoprecipitates recover ML3. Supplemental Figure S5. Protein alignment of the ML domain used for the phylogeny. Supplemental Figure S6. Protein sequence alignment of ML3 with human and Arabidopsis ML domain proteins. Supplemental Figure S7. Acidic pH causes relocalization of vacuolar proteins. Supplemental Figure S8. ER body formation is unaltered in ml3-3 mutants. Supplemental Table S1. List of primers.
