!~ABS~! Brassinosteroids (BRs) activate the BRI1 and BAK1/SERK3 membrane receptor complex, which leads to a wide range of changes in gene expression, plant growth and development. As an initial step to elucidate additional roles of BAK1, we cloned a BAK1-binding protein, BAK1-Associating Receptor-Like Kinase 1 (BARK1), and characterized its gene expression and root phenotypes. BARK1 is a putative membrane LRR-RLK (leucine-rich repeat receptor-like kinase) protein that specifically binds to BAK1 and its homologs. Careful examination of BARK1 expression using transgenic plants expressing a green fluorescent protein (GFP) reporter under the control of the native BARK1 promoter (BARK1p::GFP) revealed that this gene is ubiquitously expressed in most plant tissues, and shows especially strong expression in the xylem vasculature of primary and lateral roots as well as in mature pollen. Interestingly, the expression of the BARK1 gene was increased in the BR biosynthetic loss-of-function mutant, det2, and a loss-of-function mutant of BR signaling, bak1-3. In contrast, this gene was down-regulated in the bzr1-1D plant, which is a BR signal gain-of-function mutant. BARK1-overexpressing transgenic plants clearly enhanced primary root growth in a dose-dependent manner, and their roots were hypersensitive to BR-induced root growth inhibition. In addition, both the number and density of lateral roots were dramatically increased in the BARK1 transgenic plants in a dose-dependent manner. Together with observations that ARF (AUXIN RESPONSE FACTOR) genes are up-regulated in the BARK1 overexpressor, we suggest that the BARK1 overexpressor phenotype with more lateral roots is partly due to the increased expression of ARF genes in this genetic background. In conclusion, BAK1-interacting BARK1 protein may be involved in BR-mediated plant growth and development such as in lateral roots via auxin regulation.
!~RES~! To elucidate additional roles of BAK1 in plant growth and development, we screened an Arabidopsis cDNA library to identify potential BAK1-binding proteins, using the BAK1 kinase domain (BAK1KD) as bait in a yeast two-hybrid assay. Among the positive clones pulled out, there were nine overlapping cDNA clones encoding an LRR-RLK protein kinase (AT3g23750), and we named it BAK1-Associating Receptor-Like Kinase 1 (BARK1). After yeast two-hybrid analyses of the binding of BARK1 to other known BR signaling components such as BRI1, BSK1/2, BZR1, BIN2 and BSU1, we found that BARK1 interacts specifically with BAK1/SERK3 and its known homologs, BKK1/SERK4 (CITATION) and SERK5 (CITATION) (Fig. 1A). The specific interaction of BARK1 with BAK1 was also confirmed in tobacco leaves by showing that transient co-expression of the N-terminal green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged BARK1 (BARK1–GFPN) and the C-terminal GFP-tagged BAK1 (BAK1–GFPC) resulted in a GFP fluorescence signal in the epidermal cell membrane (Fig. 1B). In contrast, negative control pairs such as BARK1–GFPN/GFPC and BAK1–GFPN/BRI1–GFPC gave no GFP signal, whereas the positive control pair, BRI1–GFPN/BAK1–GFPC, showed a similar GFP signal.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] BARK1 genomic DNA is composed of two exons and one intron (www.Arabidopsis.org), and it encodes a protein composed of 928 amino acids with a calculated molecular mass of 100 kDa and a pI of 5.46 (web.expasy.org/compute_pi/). The deduced protein sequence of BARK1 shows a typical structure of an LRR-RLK protein kinase; it has a long stretch of extracellular domain connected to a transmembrane domain and a cytoplasmic kinase domain in order (Fig. 1C). The extracellular domain contains a signal peptide at the N-terminus (amino acids 1–24), seven LRRs (indicated in Fig. 1C), four plant-specific LRR profiles (amino acids 69–139, 142–217, 238–308 and 369–441) and a glycine-rich region (amino acids 439–478). An active protein kinase ATP-binding region signature (amino acids 584–606) and a serine/threonine protein kinase active site signature (amino acids 703–715) at the cytoplasmic domain predict that BARK1 is an active serine/threonine kinase. Database searches revealed that three LRR-RLK proteins encoded by AT1g66159 (BLK1 representing BARK1-Like Kinase 1), AT2g01820 (BLK2) and AT1g24650 (BLK3) are most similar to the BARK1 in Arabidopsis, and they show 48.6, 47.7 and 44.4% identity to the full-length sequence of BARK1, respectively. The cytoplasmic kinase domain seems to be more conserved than the extracellular domain so that their identity at the C-terminal kinase domain exceeds 80% (Supplementary Fig. S1). It has been reported that BARK1 and the three BLK proteins belong to a small group of LRR protein kinases, RLK/Pelle-LRR IX (CITATION), and they form a monophyletic gene family with BRI1 as an RLK (CITATION). We compared the domain/motif structure of BAK1 and its known binding proteins and found that not only BAK1 but also most BAK1-binding proteins share domains and motifs similar to a typical RLK, except that BIK1 apparently lacks the transmembrane domain and BON1 does not carry both the transmembrane and kinase domains (Fig. 1D). Nonetheless, BIK1 and BON1 are membrane-associated proteins (CITATION, CITATION. We searched the BARK1 orthologs and paralogs using POGs (http://plantrbp.uoregon.edu/) and inferred cladistic relationships among 41 protein sequences obtained from 20 species (Fig. 2). We found that a group of dicots, monocots, Lycopodiophyta and Bryophyta formed a monophyletic group with 100% statistical support. The green alga, Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, has an outgroup relationship with this monophyletic group. This monophyletic group was divided into two clades: the first clade covering dicots and monocots and the second clade covering Lycopodiophyta and Bryophyta. We confirmed that the two clades have a sister group relationship with each other. Within the first clade, there are two subclades which are strongly supported by statistics. The first subgroup is a group of dicots that have >55% sequence similarity to BARK1. The second subgroup was a mixed group of dicots and monocots that have <50% sequence similarity. Based on this cladistic analysis, we concluded that the BARK1 gene family evolved before the separation of dicots and monocots.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] As an initial step to understanding BARK1-mediated plant development, we examined the general expression pattern of the BARK1 gene in diverse plant tissues by performing semi-quantitative reverse transcription–PCR (RT–PCR) analysis. BARK1 was ubiquitously expressed in all tissues examined, with relatively high expression in the stem and roots (Fig. 3A). To clarify the detailed tissue-specific expression of the BARK1 gene, we have generated transgenic plants expressing a GFP reporter under the control of the native BARK1 promoter (BARK1p::GFP) and examined its expression mainly in roots and anthers.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] BARK1 was moderately expressed in floral buds and flowers (Fig. 3A). The BES1-mediated BR signaling pathway controls male sterility by regulating the expression of key genes involved in anther and pollen development. Thus, BR-related deficient or insensitive mutants are defective in the production of microspore mother cells, microspores and pollen, as well as in pollen release after anther dehiscence (CITATION). We found that the BARK1 gene was also highly expressed in mature anther, especially in pollen grains, but weakly expressed in filament and was not expressed in other maternal tissues such as tapetum and the outer wall layers (Fig. 3B). This expression pattern is partly consistent with our bioinformatic analysis performed using the PlantPAN database (http://plantpan.mbc.nctu.edu.tw/; CITATION), which predicts that transcription factors involved in floral determination and development bind to the promoter region of BARK1 (data not shown). These observations imply that BARK1 may be specifically involved in microspore and pollen development. Roots are a major source of BRs and, thus, these steroid hormones may play important roles in root growth and development (CITATION). We found that BARK1 was expressed in the periclinally dividing pericycle cells of LRs (Fig. 3C, * in the top left panel), which implies that BARK1 may contribute to LR initiation at an early stage. BARK1 was then redundantly expressed longitudinally from the meristematic zone to differentiating cells of the emerging and elongating LRs (Fig. 3C, top left panel). In terms of radial pattern, it was ubiquitously expressed across the tissue layers from the epidermis to the vascular cells. Interestingly, BARK1 expression disappeared in the meristematic zone of older roots and was restricted to the stele tissues of the differentiation zone including the protoxylem, xylem and pericycle cells, but was excluded from the phloem cells (Fig. 3C, top right panel). This is consistent with previous reports demonstrating that BRI1-LIKE 1 (BRL1) and BRL3 are specifically expressed in vascular tissues and drive vascular differentiation and growth in Arabidopsis (CITATION). The similar restricted expression pattern of BARK1 in the stele tissues was also found in the primary roots as early as 2 d after germination (Fig. 3B, bottom left panel). We are not certain at this point whether the BARK1 gene had been expressed in all root tissues before 2 d post-germination, as seen in the case of the early LRs. It has been reported that BR biosynthesis and its signaling pathways are jointly controlled by a BZR1-mediated negative feedback regulation on BR biosynthetic genes such as CPD and DWF4 to maintain BR homeostasis and growth responses (CITATION). We then addressed the question of whether the component(s) of the BR signal transduction pathway influences the expression of BARK1 to evaluate BR-responsive regulation of gene function. Interestingly, the expression of the BARK1 gene was increased in the BR biosynthetic loss-of-function mutant, det2, and a loss-of-function mutant of BR signaling, bak1-3. In contrast, this gene was down-regulated in the bzr1-1D plant, which is a BR signal gain-of-function mutant (Fig. 4A). It is probable that, as noted by CITATION, the expression of the BARK1 gene is coordinately regulated by the strength of BR signaling pathways. That is, low or moderate BR signaling induces up-regulation of the BARK1 gene and very strong signaling down-regulates the BARK1 gene by a negative feedback control. Indeed, a treatment with exogenous BR [1 µM epi-brassinolide (BL)] initially increased BARK1 gene expression but down-regulated it after a prolonged treatment with BL (Fig. 4B, C). Notably, BR-induced BARK1 and BAK1 gene expression showed a typical oscillating pattern in which gene expression fluctuated in a timely manner (Fig. 4B). The first peak was observed at 15 min (in the case of BAK1) or 30 min (in the case of BARK1) after epi-BL treatment, followed by a decrease in expression. However, there was a second peak of expression at 120 min after epi-BL treatment. In contrast, the expression of BIN2 started to increase 15 min after epi-BL treatment and remained at a relatively high level until 120 min after treatment. BZR1 expression reached a high peak at 30–60 min after the BR treatment and then rapidly decreased.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Other plant hormones also showed hormone-specific regulation of BARK1 gene expression. As described, epi-BL increased BARK1 gene expression >4-fold in a time-dependent oscillation manner. 2,4-D (an auxin) showed a similar induction effect on BARK1 gene expression, but its stimulation was <2-fold (Fig. 4C). In contrast, treatment with exogenous ABA (10 µM), gibberellic acid (GA3, 10 µM) or cytokinin (6-benzylaminopurine, 10 µM) steadily decreased the expression of BARK1 immediately after the initial slight increase (Fig. 4C). These results imply that BARK1 gene expression and probably its functions are differentially regulated by hormones, and BRs and auxins work together in a positively coordinate manner, while ABA, gibberellin and cytokinins are antagonizing agents. To evaluate the possible involvement of BARK1 in BR-responsive plant growth and development, we generated transgenic plants ectopically expressing BARK1 fused to the N-terminal region of GFP (35S::BARK1-GFPN, BARK1ox lines) and investigated their root phenotypes. Based on Western blot analysis performed using anti-GFP antibodies, we determined that BARK1ox-11, -14 and -15 lines overexpressed BARK1-fused transgenic proteins, ranging from moderate to high levels compared with the Columbia (Col-0) control (Fig. 5A).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] There were no strikingly different aerial phenotypes of light-grown BARK1 overexpressor plants compared with the Col-0 plants, except that BARK1 transgenic plants were slightly larger. For dark-grown plants, their hypocotyls were 5–7% longer (Fig. 5B, C). Brassinazole (BRZ), a BR biosynthesis inhibitor, inhibited growth of hypocotyls in Arabidopsis, and this retarded growth was recovered by treatment with exogenous BRs (CITATION). Transgenic plants overexpressing BRI1 and BAK1 are more sensitive to BR compared with the wild type and both show resistance against BRZ treatment (CITATION, CITATION). We found that transgenic plants overexpressing BARK1 showed no significant difference in the BRZ-induced inhibition of hypocotyl growth compared with the Col-0 wild type (Fig. 5D). This result implies that the longer hypocotyl phenotype may not be due to the overexpression of the BARK1 protein and its involvement in the BR signaling pathway downstream of BR perception. In contrast to the hypocotyl phenotype, different levels of BARK1 overexpression clearly enhanced primary root growth in a dose-dependent manner. A >35% increase in root growth was observed in the BARK1ox-15 line, while about 3–5% statistically insignificant root growth was observed in the BARK1ox-11 line, which expresses the transgenic BARK1 protein at a relatively low level (Fig. 5C). BRs regulate root growth in a concentration-dependent manner; they promote root growth at low concentrations and inhibit it at high concentrations (CITATION, CITATION). Our root growth inhibition assay showed that growing Columbia plants in a medium containing 10−13 M epi-BL increased the length of primary roots by 5–10%. As expected, there was a gradual inhibition of root growth for plants grown in a medium containing >10−13 M epi-BL in a concentration-dependent manner (Fig. 5E). Notably for BARK1 transgenic plants, this root growth inhibition can be seen already in plants grown in medium with 10−13 M epi-BL. Our results indicate that overexpression of BARK1 renders the roots of plants more sensitive to BR inhibition. In this report, we revealed that the promoter activity of the BARK1p::GFP transgenic plants was high during LR formation, especially in xylem and pericycle cells. Consistent with this expression pattern, both the number and density of LRs were dramatically increased in BARK1 transgenic plants in a dose-dependent manner. For example, the BARK1ox-15 line had >6-fold more LRs compared with the Col-0 plants (Fig. 5C), and their density along the primary root was also more than four times higher (Fig. 5F). These results indicate that BARK1 may be involved in the growth and development of LRs. The establishment of the auxin response maximum by GNOM/FEWER ROOTS, a regulator of the PIN (PIN-FORMED) auxin efflux carriers, is a major trigger of LR initiation and development (CITATION). It is well known that downstream components of the auxin signaling pathway, such as AUX/IAA and ARFs, are actively involved in the control of this root development. Therefore, we examined whether the BR- and BARK1-regulated LR phenotype is accompanied by a transcriptional modulation of any AUX/IAA and ARF genes. As expected from Fig. 4B and C, BARK1 was highly up-regulated by the BR treatment (Fig. 5G). At the same time, the expression of BDL/IAA12 was greatly decreased while that of MP/ARF5, a module partner in the regulation of LR initiation, was dramatically increased by >20-fold by treatment with 5 × 10−9 M exogenous BL. A similar but far less extensive regulation was observed in gene expression of the LR-controlling modular proteins of SLR/IAA14 and ARF7-ARF19. Among other ARF proteins involved in the regulation of LR development, expression of ARF2 and ARF3 genes was moderately increased 2- to 5-fold compared with the mock control, while that of the ARF4 gene was not significantly changed or slightly decreased by the BL treatment. Interestingly, the BARK1 overexpressor showed a similar up-regulated expression pattern of ARF genes, ranging from 3.2 to 5.5 times (Fig. 5H). In this transgenic line, ARF4 expression was also enhanced. It was previously shown that ectopic expression of ARF4 increased the number of LRs. In contrast, the loss-of-function mutant, arf4-2, showed a decreased number of LRs (CITATION). Similarly, the arf7 arf19 null mutant exhibited a dramatically decreased number of LRs, and its defective LR phenotype was rescued by the introduction of their direct transcriptional downstream targets such as LATERAL ORGAN BOUNDARIES DOMAIN 16 (LBD16), LBD18 and LBD29 (CITATION, CITATION). Based on these reports, we suggest that the BARK1 overexpressor phenotype with enhanced LR number is partly due to the increased expression of ARF genes in this genetic background. Unfortunately, we were not able to confirm opposite root phenotypes in BARK1 knock-out plants as we have failed to isolate homozygous progeny from several lines of T-DNA-tagged heterozygote plants. It will be of value in the future to clarify the molecular mechanisms that block the production of the homozygous knock-out plants.
!~MM~! Wild-type Arabidopsis thaliana (Col-0), its BR-related mutants (det2, bak1-3 and bzr1-D), a promoter-driven reporter plant BARK1p::GFP and the BARK1-overexpressing 35S::BARK1-GFPN transgenic plants were used for gene expression and phenotype analysis in this study. Seeds were surface-sterilized by washing them with 70% EtOH/0.1% Triton X-100 for 20 min, 70% EtOH for 10 min and 95% EtOH for 10 min. Finally, seeds were dried on a clean bench and cold-treated in the dark at 4°C for 72 h. These sterilized seeds were then sown on half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) agar medium containing 0.8% phytoagar (pH 5.7) in the presence or absence of the indicated chemicals in each experiment. For experiments examining tissue expression of the BARK1 gene by performing RT–PCR (Fig. 3A) and using a confocal microscope (Fig. 3B), seeds were sterilized/cold-treated and sown in pots containing Sunshine No. 5 soil (Polysciences). For other experiments, plants were grown in a growth chamber or growth room operating under a cycle of 16 h light and 8 h dark at 23–25°C unless they were grown under total darkness to analyze the hypocotyl phenotype (Fig. 5B–D). All seedlings were grown vertically. All procedures for yeast transformation and the protein interaction test were performed according to Clontech’s manual ‘Yeast Protocols Handbook’ (PT3024-1) using pGBKT7 as the GAL4 DNA-binding domain vector and pGADT7 as the GAL4 DNA activation vector (Clontech). To test interactions between BARK1 and other known BR signaling components, a cDNA encoding the BARK1 kinase domain (BARK1KD; Val498 to Arg928) was amplified by PCR using EcoRI- and SalI- (New England Biolabs) tagged primers and subsequently subcloned into pGBKT7 to generate the BARK1KD-pGBKT7 construct. Other cDNAs encoding the kinase domain (KD) of BRI1, BAK1 (AT4g33430), BKK1 (BAK1-like kinase 1; AT2g13790) or SERK5 (AT2g13800) and the full coding region of BSK1 (AT4g35230), BSK2 (AT5g46570), BZR1 (AT1g75080), BIN2 (AT4g18710) or BSU1 (AT1g03445) were subcloned into pGADT7 to generate test constructs. Each test construct was co-transformed with BARK1KD-pGBKT7 into AH109 yeast cells pre-conditioned with TE/LiAc solution (10 mM Tris–HCl/1 mM EDTA/0.1 M lithium acetate, pH 7.5). Co-transformed yeast with equal density, determined by measuring the optical density at 600 nm, were then spotted on either a yeast drop-out medium lacking leucine and tryptophan or a medium lacking leucine, tryptophan and histidine in the presence of 1 mM 3-aminotriazole to test interactions. Primers used for yeast constructions are listed in Supplementary Table S1. Interaction of proteins in planta was examined as previously described with minor modifications (CITATION). In brief, full-length genomic DNAs encoding BRI1, BAK1 and BARK1 were amplified from Col-0 plants by PCR using MluI- and XhoI- (New England Biolabs) tagged primers. The amplified DNA fragments were then cut by these enzymes and subcloned into two binary vectors, pmGFPN173C and/or pmGFPC155c in fusion with the N-terminal half (GFPN) or the C-terminal half (GFPC) of GFP, respectively. For the in planta interaction assay, Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV301 carrying the BiFC binary expression constructs was infiltrated into the abaxial air space of 2- to 4-week-old tobacco leaves. Epidermal cell layers were then assayed for fluorescence 36–48 h after the infiltration using a Zeiss LSM 510 Meta NLO-UV confocal laser-scanning microscope. Primers used for these constructions are listed in Supplementary Table S1. To build a promoter-driven reporter construct of BARK1 (BARK1p::GFP), a 2 kb fragment of genomic DNA residing immediately before the first methionine of BARK1 was amplified by PCR from Col-0 plants, cloned into pENTR/SD/D-TOPO and then into the upstream region of the C-terminal sGFP-expressing binary vector pGWB4 (CITATION), according to the manufacturer’s instructions for Gateway cloning (Invitrogen). For generation of a BARK1 overexpressor, the GFP-tagged BARK1-expressing pmGFPN173C construct (35S::BARK1-GFPN) described above was used to express BARK1–GFPN fusion protein ectopically under the control of the Caulifower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. Primers used for these constructions are listed in Supplementary Table S1. All binary vector constructs were transformed into A. tumefaciens GV3101 and then transformed into A. thaliana using the floral dipping method (CITATION). T1 seeds from primary transformants were screened on half-strength MS solid medium containing 50 µg ml−1 kanamycin to select for transgenic progeny. Transgenic T2 seeds from individual T1 plants were planted on the same medium to identify homozygous T2 seeds. The transformation was verified by genotype analysis, and T3 homozygous seeds were used for all experiments. A Zeiss LSM 510 Meta NLO-UV confocal laser-scanning microscope equipped with an argon 2 ion laser (488 nm) and a He/Ne 1 ion laser (543 nm) was used. An HFT488 chromatic beam splitter and a BP500–550 IR bandpass filter were used to generate the GFP signal, and an HFT 543 beam splitter and a BP 565–615 bandpass filter aided in the observations of the propidium iodide (PI) staining. Images were compiled with the LSM 5 image browser software. For PI staining, tissues were incubated for 30 min in 5 µg ml−1 PI (Sigma-Aldrich). Total RNAs were isolated from plant tissues using the Plant RNA Extraction Kit (Intron biotechnology) and then treated with RQ1 RNase-Free DNase (Promega) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. To examine semi-quantitative RNA expression, the first-strand cDNA of a gene was synthesized using the Impron II reverse transcription kit (Promega) and then amplified by PCR using G-Taq polymerase (Labopass) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. For quantitative real-time RT-PCR (qRT–PCR), total RNA was extracted from >10 individuals of 2-week-old plant root tissues. The qRT–PCR was performed by the SYBR green method using the Applied Biosystems Step One Plus System with appropriate primers. The expression of each transcript was normalized against the amount of UBC1 control in each sample. The results were reported as the relative expression relative to the mock control (Fig. 5G) or Col-0 control (Fig. 5H). Three biological replicates were included in each experiment, and the data were statistically analyzed by the Student’s t-test. Primers used for RT–PCRs are summarized in Supplementary Table S1. To examine expression of BARK1–GFPN in transgenic plants, the rosette leaves of 3-week-old seedlings were harvested and frozen in liquid nitrogen. Frozen leaves were then pulverized using a mortar and pestle and total proteins were extracted using a homogenization buffer [50 mM Tris-acetate, 100 mM potassium acetate, 1 mM EDTA, 20% glycerol, 1 mM dithiothreitol (DTT), 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl flluoride (PMSF), 1% Triton X-100, pH 7.9]. The homogenate was centrifuged at 12,000 r.p.m. for 10 min at 4°C and the supernatant was used for size fractionation of total proteins by 10% SDS–PAGE. The size-fractioned total proteins were then transferred onto a nitrocellulose membrane (Whatman) and probed against anti-GFP rabbit polyclonal antibodies in 5% milk/TBST (50 mM Tris-acetate, 150 mM NaCl, 0.05% Tween-20, pH 7.6) for 2 h at room temperature. Goat anti-rabbit horseradish peroxidase-conjugated secondary antibody (Santa Cruz Biotechnology Inc.) was used to quantify BARK1–GFP protein. Peroxidase activity was detected using the ECL system (Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Amino acid sequences were aligned using the MEGA 5.05 ClustalW program and its parameters. A penalty of 10 for the gap opening and 0.2 for the gap extension were given for this alignment, and the phylogenetic clade was constructed using the Neighbor–Joining method. The P-distance model was selected for the analysis. Plants grown on a half-strength MS agar medium in the presence or absence of the indicated chemicals were photographed, and the images were saved in a TIFF or JPEG format. The saved images were transferred to the Image J program (NIH), and the length of hypocotyls and primary roots together with the number and density of LRs were measured. The density of LRs represents the number of roots divided by the length of the primary root from which the LRs were derived. All experiments were done at least in triplicate, and the data were statistically analyzed by the Student’s t-test.
