!~ABS~! Metacaspases are distant relatives of the metazoan caspases, found in plants, fungi, and protists. However, in contrast with caspases, information about the physiological substrates of metacaspases is still scarce. By means of N-terminal combined fractional diagonal chromatography, the physiological substrates of METACASPASE9 (MC9; AT5G04200) were identified in young seedlings of Arabidopsis thaliana on the proteome-wide level, providing additional insight into MC9 cleavage specificity and revealing a previously unknown preference for acidic residues at the substrate prime site position P1′. The functionalities of the identified MC9 substrates hinted at metacaspase functions other than those related to cell death. These results allowed us to resolve the substrate specificity of MC9 in more detail and indicated that the activity of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 1 (AT4G37870), a key enzyme in gluconeogenesis, is enhanced upon MC9-dependent proteolysis.
!~RES~! The spatiotemporal expression of Arabidopsis MC9 was studied in ProMC9:GUS reporter lines by means of β-glucuronidase (GUS) histochemical analysis (for a detailed description, see Supplemental Methods 1 online). Several independent homozygous alleles were analyzed with similar results (see representative GUS staining patterns in Figures 1A to 1D). Interestingly, the MC9 promoter activity was already obvious in root caps of young 2-d-old seedlings (corresponding to the developmental stage 0.5 to 0.7, including a 3-d stratification period) (CITATION) (Figure 1A), remained the same in 1-week-old seedlings, and was observed also in epidermal cells (Figure 1B). In hypocotyls and cotyledons, but not in rosette leaves, discrete differentiating primary and secondary tracheary elements were also stained (Figure 1C). In petals, a strong signal appeared just prior to abscission (Figure 1D). Anther connectives also displayed strong MC9 promoter activity (Figure 1D). [[FIGURE]] By quantitative RT-PCR, we assessed the expression of all nine Arabidopsis metacaspases in 2-d-old seedlings of wild-type Columbia-0 (Col-0) and in the T-DNA insertion knockout (mc9) and MC9 overexpression (35S:MC9) (CITATION) transgenic lines (for a detailed description, see Supplemental Methods 2 online) (Figures 1E to 1G). Both MC9 gain-of-function or loss-of-function plants did not display any obvious aberrant phenotypes under normal vegetative or reproductive growth conditions. MC4 expression was the highest (Figure 1G), consistent with a previous report that it is the most expressed metacaspase at various growth stages (CITATION). In young seedlings, corresponding to a developmentally active stage with a dynamic proteome, the MC9 expression was the second highest; therefore, this stage was chosen for analysis of the MC9 degradome (Figure 1G). To explore the function of MC9 through identification of its physiological protein substrates, we used the N-terminal COFRADIC technique (CITATION; CITATION). In contrast with most proteomic approaches, N-terminal COFRADIC is a positional proteomics technology that uses sequential peptide chromatography to enrich for those peptides that contain the protein N termini out of the whole peptide mixture obtained by, for instance, full trypsin digestion of proteomes. Here, this so-called N-terminome consisted of all peptides that possessed the mature protein N termini and the neo-N-termini that had been generated upon proteolysis by MC9. Neo-N-termini that emerged at MC9 processing sites directly conveyed the MC9 proteolytic events and the exact site where the protein cleavage occurred (CITATION). We analyzed the in vivo N-terminome of 2-d-old seedlings of wild-type and MC9 gain-of-function and loss-of-function transgenic plants (Figures 1E and 1F). First, the N-terminome of the T-DNA insertion knockout (mc9) seedlings was compared with that of wild-type seedlings and, second, to that of seedlings overexpressing MC9 (35S:MC9). Additionally, a mc9 seedling proteome to which Arabidopsis recombinant MC9 (rMC9) (CITATION) had been added in vitro was studied versus an untreated mc9 control. To compare the N-terminomes, N-hydroxysuccinimide esters of light and heavy isotopic variants of butyric acid were used to mass tag the (neo)-N-terminal peptides (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). This differential labeling strategy was possible because MC9 introduced novel, primary α-amino groups that were uniquely tagged with either a light or heavy variant of butyric acid. After this mass tagging, equal amounts of the proteome preparations were mixed and digested with trypsin, and (neo)-N-terminal peptides were isolated with N-terminal COFRADIC (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Mass tagging of neo-N-termini enabled us to determine the proteome origin of each labeled peptide. The respective ion signal intensities were further used to identify the MC9 processed sites. The following MS readouts were expected: (1) Some (neo)-N-terminal peptides would be found at equal intensity in both samples. Such peptides might carry the mature protein N terminus and would not be indicative of MC9 proteolysis (Figure 2A). Furthermore, such N-terminal peptides would imply that the particular protein (form) was not up- or downregulated in the tested proteomes. (2) Some neo-N-terminal peptides would occur in both samples, but with a significantly higher intensity in the sample with either the active MC9 or the supplemented rMC9. This outcome would mean that the corresponding proteins were also cleaved in the control sample (lacking MC9 activity), although to a lesser extent, by another protease, hinting at a redundant protease activity (Figure 2B). Such events could be explained by a scenario in which the MC9 perturbation activated other proteases (i.e., metacaspases). (3) Some neo-N-terminal peptides (so-called singletons) would be uniquely found in the proteome either with the active MC9 (Col-0 or 35S:MC9 proteome) or supplemented with rMC9, implying that the corresponding proteins were cleaved by MC9 (Figure 2C). [[FIGURE]] Peptides were analyzed with an LTQ Orbitrap XL mass spectrometer. The obtained tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) spectra were searched against The Arabidopsis Information Resource database (release 8) with the Mascot algorithm and subsequently mapped to the TAIR10 database with DBToolkit (CITATION) (for a detailed description, see Supplemental Methods 3 online). In total, 75,310 MS/MS spectra were generated in the mc9/Col-0 analysis, 69,388 in the mc9/35S:MC9 analysis, and 75,042 in the in vitro analysis, identifying 3781, 2879, and 3050 peptides and converging to 1705, 1407, and 1138 proteins, respectively. The ratios of light/heavy peptide signals for all identified peptides were calculated with the Mascot Distiller software and were individually checked for possible neo-N-terminal peptides pointing to MC9 processing. We focused on two classes of peptides: the significantly enriched neo-N-terminal peptides (Z-score ≤ −2.33 or Z-score ≥ 2.33, depending on the labeling used to calculate the light/heavy intensity ratios) and the unique peptides (singletons) in the Col-0, 35S:MC9, or rMC9-treated seedling proteomes in comparison to mc9 (Figures 2B and 2C). As the former might also appear because of differential protein levels in the input proteomes, we scanned the data for the corresponding precursor protein N termini or other neo-N-terminal peptides from these precursor proteins, which were not cleaved by MC9. Comparison of these peptide levels led us to conclude that no large proteome changes occurred between the different proteomes assayed. For an overview of all cleavage sites, their corresponding substrates, and their precursor protein N termini identified in the three analyses, see Supplemental Data Sets 1A to 1C online. After filtering the data with the known MC9 specificity for Arg and Lys, 72% of all processed sites matched the expected MC9 specificity (28 and 44% cleavage C-terminally to Arg and Lys, respectively), without significant enrichment for a particular amino acid in the other processing events. In total, 551 cleavage events after Arg or Lys (116 in mc9/Col-0, 103 in mc9/35S:MC9, and 332 in vitro) (see Supplemental Figure 2A online) were identified in 392 proteins (97 in mc9/Col-0, 84 in mc9/35S:MC9, and 211 in vitro) (see Supplemental Figure 2B online), from which approximately one-third (160 sites) were reported as singleton peptides in either Col-0, 35S:MC9, or rMC9-treated proteomes (16 in mc9/Col-0, 11 in mc9/35S:MC9, and 133 in vitro) and 391 as significantly enriched peptides in the same proteomes (100 in mc9/Col-0, 92 in mc9/35S:MC9, and 199 in vitro) (see Supplemental Data Sets 1A to 1C online) Using iceLogo (CITATION), we inspected the amino acid sequences at the prime and nonprime substrate positions of the Arg and Lys P1-specific cleavage sites (CITATION) and analyzed the frequencies of specific residues after statistical correction by means of the natural occurrence of amino acids in Arabidopsis proteins. The specificity information derived from the three data sets was very similar. The large in vitro COFRADIC data set showed that the acidic residues Asp and Glu were often found at neighboring positions to the basic (Arg or Lys) cleavage site. For instance, in 46 and 47% of the Lys-cleaved and Arg-cleaved sequences, respectively, the P1′ position (C-terminally to the cleavage P1 position) was occupied by Asp or Glu and, likewise, the P2 position in 23 and 22% of the Lys-cleaved and Arg-cleaved sequences, respectively. However, only in 5 and 7% of the Lys-cleaved and Arg-cleaved sequences, respectively, both P2 and P1′ were acidic (Figure 3A; see Supplemental Figures 3 and 4A online). At the prime site, Asp or Glu was also observed in 27% of the cases at P3′. At P2′, the small amino acids Thr, Ala, and Val occurred in 38% of all cases, whereas Ala was tolerated at every position. Analogous to the in vivo COFRADIC-derived specificity (Figure 3B), Val and Glu were preferred at P4 and Lys and Arg were frequently found at P3. Ala and Thr were the sole preferred residues at P2 in the in vivo–cleaved substrates, but in vitro–cleaved proteins additionally (23% of the cleaved substrates) tolerated Asp and Glu at this position (Figures 3A and 3B; see Supplemental Figures 3 and 4 online). Regarding the prime site substrate specificity of MC9, the in vivo and in vitro data were largely similar, except for the amino acid tolerance at P2′: In the latter, small residues were present at this position, whereas aromatic residues, such as Phe and Tyr and the aliphatic Ile and Leu, were found also in the former. [[FIGURE]] In conclusion, the MC9 specificity for basic residues at the P1 site was accompanied by a strong preference for acidic amino acids at the P1′ site (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). This particular trend of acidic-basic amino acid combinations was also seen at other positions at the nonprime site (P4-P3), whereas Ala was generally tolerated at every position. A relative preference occurred for Lys over Arg at the P1 site and in vivo, often (27% of the cases) a second Arg or Lys at P3. For instance, when Lys was present at P1, 24% of these substrates contained a second Lys at P3. Previously, in a positional scanning of a synthetic combinatorial library (PS-SCL) of 7-amino-4-methylcoumarin (AMC)–labeled synthetic tetrapeptides spanning the positions P4-P1, VRPR was found as the most preferred rMC9 tetrapeptide substrate, whereas IISK, the best cleaved peptide with Lys at P1, was fivefold less efficiently cleaved than VRPR (for Val-Arg-Pro-Val) (CITATION). Our current results somewhat contrast with the stronger preference for Arg over Lys at P1, but they are in agreement with the preferred presence of a dibasic amino acid motif (such as RxR) as in VRPR. When the two in vitro approaches (in vitro COFRADIC and PS-SCL) were compared (Figure 3C), Val was the most prevalent residue at P4 in both data sets of Arg-cleaved substrates. However, a major difference was observed at the P2 site: The COFRADIC data indicated that Thr and Asp were preferred and the PS-SCL data showed a preference for hydrophobic residues or Pro. Based on the in vivo and in vitro amino acid frequencies at the P4-P3′ substrate positions derived from the COFRADIC analyses (Figure 3; see Supplemental Figures 3 and 4 online), two revised consensus sequences of the MC9 substrate specificity are proposed for either cleavage after Arg and Lys, namely, [V]-[R]-[T/Q]-[R]-↓-[G/D/E]-[V/F/L/I]-[D/E] and [E/Q]-[K/A]-[T/E]-[K]-↓-[D/E]-[Y/T]-[D/E] to detect the MC9 activity in biochemical assays. By means of GenomeNet (http://www.genome.jp) and Motif Search, we screened the Arabidopsis proteome for the presence of these sequences. The number of protein hits varied depending on the length of the motif. In fact, the P4-P1’ sequences [V]-[R]-[T/Q]-[R]-↓-[G/D/E] and [E/Q]-[K/A]-[T/E]-[K]-↓-[D/E] were found in more than 20 and 380 protein hits, respectively (see Supplemental Data Set 1D online). Nevertheless, these observations are based only on the sequences of the queried proteins and do not take into account whether any of the predicted motifs are solvent accessible or reside in a secondary structure element not readily recognized by the protease. For the experimental validation of the MC9 substrates, we prioritized all in vivo singleton peptides together with those proteins bearing cleavage sites identified in more than one proteomic analysis. In this manner, 99 sites in 74 different proteins were selected for cleavage validation (Table 1), from which 18 sites were identical in the three different setups, 35 sites in both in vivo analyses, 19 sites between the mc9/Col-0 in vivo and the in vitro analysis, and finally 15 sites between the mc9/35S:MC9 in vivo and the in vitro analysis. The remaining 12 sites were reported as in vivo singleton peptides (Table 1; see Supplemental Figure 2A online). Two independent validation approaches were chosen. First, 18–amino acid peptides harboring the identified cleavage sites were synthesized for six randomly selected candidate protein substrates and used for in vitro rMC9 cleavage assays. Second, in vitro–transcribed and translated, radiolabeled (35S-Met) proteins, generated from available cDNA clones (ABRC), were incubated with rMC9 and their digestion products were analyzed by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and autoradiography. After incubation with increasing concentrations of rMC9 (0, 31, 125, and 500 nM), synthetic peptides and their digestion products were separated by reverse-phase HPLC and analyzed by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time-of-flight mass spectrometry (for a detailed method description, see Supplemental Methods 4 online). Peptides spanning the MC9 cleavage sites identified in trypsin inhibitor 2 (AT1G47540), general regulatory factor 5 (GRF5; AT5G16050), Gly-rich RNA binding protein (GRP7; AT2G21660), and protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase B (PORB; AT4G27440) were cleaved by rMC9 at the sites identified by COFRADIC. The degree of peptide processing increased with increasing rMC9 concentrations (see Supplemental Figure 5 online). For proteins containing more than one identified cleavage site, such as the late-embryogenesis abundant (LEA) domain–containing protein (AT2G42560), PEPCK1 (AT4G37870), and GRP7, two synthetic peptides were tested (see Supplemental Figure 6 online). All these peptides were cleaved by rMC9 at the sites identified by COFRADIC. However, additional alternative cleavage sites were observed as well, probably due to sequence similarities with the COFRADIC-deduced sites. For instance, the additional cleavage site R212↓E in the LEA domain–containing protein precursor was identical to the COFRADIC-deduced site R214↓E. As for GRP7, the peptide precursor was originally expected to be cleaved at the MK64↓D site but was additionally processed at EK61↓A, a similar site, because in both cases, K was adjacent to an acidic residue (Asp or Glu). Furthermore, the consensus sequence for Lys-cleaved peptides supported the preference for acidic residues either at the N-terminal or C-terminal side of the cleaved Lys. To validate experimentally the substrate cleavages at the protein level, we employed in vitro transcription and translation coupled assays. In total, we successfully translated 16 proteins, all of which were cleaved by rMC9. Although the precursor protein levels clearly decreased or even were completely negligible after the rMC9 treatment, for some substrates, cleavage fragments were not always observed. It is possible that the substrate fragments were not detectable by autoradiography because they did not contain a radiolabeled Met or that proteolytic fragments <20 kD might have been too small for proper separation and visualization by the SDS-PAGE system used. The substrates that were processed into fragments of correctly predicted molecular weight based on the cleavage site(s) previously identified by COFRADIC and MS, were GRF5, PEPCK1, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) synthetase (AT1G55090), GDP-mannose 4,6-dehydratase 2 (GMD2; AT3G51160), pentatricopeptide repeat (PPR)–containing protein (AT1G02150), and citrate synthase3 (CSY3; AT2G42790) (Figure 4). Furthermore, these proteins were not cleaved by the inactive rMC9 mutant, rMC9C147AC29A (CITATION), indicating that the observed fragments were indeed due to rMC9 and not to other (contaminating) proteases present in the assay mixture. [[FIGURE]] PEPCK, which catalyzes the reversible ATP-dependent decarboxylation of oxaloacetate to phosphoenolpyruvate, is involved in gluconeogenesis, photosynthetic CO2-concentrating mechanisms during C4 photosynthesis (CITATION), Crassulacean acid metabolism (CITATION), and nitrogenous compound metabolism (CITATION). As PEPCK is posttranslationaly regulated by reversible phosphorylation (CITATION) and prone to rapid proteolytic cleavage in planta (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION), which gives rise to fragments with sizes that correlate to the cleavage sites observed by N-terminal COFRADIC, we focused on the MC9-dependent PEPCK1 cleavage. To this end, we assessed whether MC9 was responsible for in planta cleavage of PEPCK1, which is highly active during germination at the 2-d-old seedling stage of the studied proteome (CITATION). PEPCK1 polypeptides (74 and 73 kD) were previously immunodetected in Arabidopsis cotyledons with a polyclonal antiserum raised against PEPCK from Guinea grass (Panicum maximum) leaves (CITATION). Similarly, in pea (Pisum sativum) cotyledons, besides the mature 72-kD form, a smaller 68-kD PEPCK polypeptide was detected that was attributed either to a genuine isoform or to a regulatory protein processing event (CITATION). Recently, the pineapple (Ananas comosus) PEPCK had been found to have two active polypeptide variants of 74 and 65 kD in vivo (CITATION). In cucumber (Cucumis sativus), an in vivo phosphorylation site is located in the proteolytically removed N-terminal fragment (CITATION). In Guinea grass, the activity of the full-length phosphorylated PEPCK was lower than that of the full-length or truncated dephosphorylated PEPCK, indicating that removal of the phosphorylation site(s)–containing N-terminal region might restore the PEPCK activity (CITATION). Cleavage of PEPCK1 by MC9 in vivo and in vitro at Lys-19 and Arg-101 (Figures 4 and 5A; see Supplemental Figure 6 online) led to C-terminal fragments of 72 and 63 kD, respectively (Figure 5B). With rabbit polyclonal antibodies raised against the recombinant Arabidopsis PEPCK1, we monitored the PEPCK1 processing in MC9 gain-of-function and loss-of-function mutants. Protein extracts of mc9, Col-0, and 35S:MC9 from 2-d-old seedlings were prepared under postlytic proteolysis-inhibiting conditions, directly mixed with the SDS-PAGE loading buffer, and heated before protein gel blot analysis with anti-PEPCK1. The 74-kD precursor protein was processed in the 35S:MC9 extracts, whereas in Col-0 or mc9 extracts, it remained predominantly intact (Figure 5C). Smaller cross-reactive fragments of 57 to 68 kD were equally abundant in mc9, Col-0, and 35S:MC9 extracts, implying that they could result from another protease activity or degradation. Taken together, our data indicate that overexpression of MC9 increased the PEPCK1 processing in vivo. [[FIGURE]] To assess the effect of the MC9-dependent PEPCK1 cleavage, we measured the carboxylation activity of PEPCK1 in young seedling extracts of Col-0, pepck1 (CITATION), and MC9 gain-of-function and loss-of-function mutants (Figure 6A). PEPCK1 activity was the highest in 35S:MC9 plant extracts (46 and 71% higher than that of Col-0 and mc9, respectively), revealing that MC9 cleavage enhanced PEPCK1 activity and that proteolysis might remove the putative PEPCK1 inhibitory phosphorylation site (Ser-62). As PEPCK1 is involved in Suc synthesis from lipids during oilseed plant germination, the pepck1 mutants are impaired in hypocotyl elongation when grown in the dark in Suc-deprived growth media (CITATION; CITATION). Hence, under these conditions, we monitored the hypocotyl elongation of pepck1, mc9, Col-0, and 35S:MC9 for a period of 10 d after germination. As expected, pepck1 hypocotyls were the smallest and the mc9 hypocotyl growth was significantly compromised (P value < 0.05) in comparison to that of Col-0. Reciprocally, 35S:MC9 hypocotyls were the longest (17.4, 36.9, and 56.3% longer than Col-0, mc9, and pepck1 hypocotyls, respectively) (Figures 6B and 6C). These results are indicative of a positive regulatory effect of MC9 on the PEPCK1 activity during gluconeogenesis. [[FIGURE]] Because of the apparent discrepancy between the cytosolic localization of PEPCK1 and the detection of MC9 in the apoplast of 35S:MC9 lines (CITATION), we reassessed the subcellular localizations of MC9 and PEPCK1 by transiently expressing N- and C-terminal green fluorescent protein (GFP)–tagged MC9 and PEPCK1 in tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) leaves (for a detailed description, see Supplemental Methods 5 online). PEPCK1 fusion proteins were exclusively localized in the cytosol (Figure 7A) and N- and C-terminal MC9 fusion proteins in the nucleocytoplasm (Figures 7B and 7C), but not in the apoplast, possibly due to the GFP instability in the acidic apoplast environment (CITATION; CITATION). To exclude that the nuclear GFP signal was due to diffusion of free GFP after proteolytic processing of the fusion protein, we evaluated the integrity of the MC9 fusion proteins by protein gel blot analysis (Figure 7D). An ∼45-kD GFP:MC9 protein was found that corresponded with the 25-kD GFP protein fused with the large p20 subunit of MC9 (20 kD). In this case, the small p10 subunit (15 kD) was removed after autocatalytic activation of the protease (CITATION), indicating that MC9 was active in the observed subcellular compartments. For the C-terminal MC9:GFP fusion, an ∼60-kD protein correlated with the full length of the fusion protein, revealing that the GFP fusion at the C terminus of MC9 might have interfered with the proteolytic separation of the two subunits. However, MC9 localized in the same cellular compartments irrespective of the GFP fusion conformations. [[FIGURE]] To confirm the nucleocytoplasmic localization of MC9, we additionally analyzed Arabidopsis roots of the ProMC9:MC9:GFP reporter lines. Interestingly, the localization of MC9 in the nucleus and cytoplasm of epidermal cells was confirmed (Figure 7E). Altogether, our localization study demonstrated that MC9, besides its apoplastic location, is also present in nucleus and cytoplasm.
!~MM~! ProMC9:GUS reporter lines were generated as described in Supplemental Methods 1 online, and plants at different stages were used for the expression analysis of MC9. In summary, whole plants or separate organs were incubated in 90% (v/v) acetone for 10 min at room temperature, washed in PBS, pH 7.4, and then incubated in 1 mg/mL 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-glucuronide, 2 mM ferricyanide, and 0.5 mM ferrocyanide in 100 mM phosphate buffer, pH 7.4, at 37°C in the dark for 4 h to overnight. The material was cleared with 85% lactate solution and observed under stereomicroscopy and conventional light microscopy. Total RNA was extracted from 2-d-old seedlings as described (CITATION) with modifications. cDNA was prepared with the iScript cDNA synthesis kit (Bio-Rad) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Real-time quantitative PCR was performed in a final volume of 20 µL, including 5 μL of eightfold diluted cDNA, 250 nM of each primer, and 50% (v/v) SYBR® green mix (Invitrogen), with an iCycler instrument (Bio-Rad), according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The housekeeping gene UBIQUITIN C (AT5G25760) was used as internal reference and for normalization of transcript levels. The gene-specific primer sequences used for the quantitative RT-PCR are listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. For a detailed description, see Supplemental Methods 2 online. Seeds of Arabidopsis thaliana, accession Col-0, the MC9 T-DNA insertion line (GK-506H04), and the MC9 overexpression line (CITATION) were placed in round plastic plates containing wet Whatman paper for stratification at 4°C in the dark. After 3 d, seeds were transferred to 21°C with a 16-h-light/8-h-dark photoperiod with 80 to 100 µmol m−2 s−1 light intensity and left to germinate for 48 h. Young seedlings, including seed coats, were collected, frozen in liquid nitrogen, and ground into a fine powder with mortar and pestle. To achieve a total protein content of ∼4 mg, 0.5 g frozen ground tissue was resuspended in 1 mL buffer containing 1% (w/v) 3-[(3-Cholamidopropyl)-dimethylammonio]-1-propanesulfonate (CHAPS), 0.5% (w/v) deoxycholate, 0.1% (w/v) SDS, 5 mM ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid, and 10% glycerol in PBS, pH 7.5, further containing the suggested amount of protease inhibitor mixture (one tablet/10 mL buffer) according to the manufacturer’s instructions (Roche Applied Science). The sample was centrifuged at 16,000g for 10 min at 4°C, and guanidinium hydrochloride was added to the cleared supernatant to reach a final concentration of 4 M. For the in vitro COFRADIC analysis, protein extracts were prepared in the MC9 optimal activity buffer consisting of 50 mM MES, pH 5.5, 150 mM NaCl, 10% (w/v) Suc, 0.1% (w/v) CHAPS, and 10 mM dithiothreitol. Four milligrams of total seedling protein extract (48 h after germination) was incubated at 30°C with recombinant MC9 (CITATION) for a total duration of 1 h; every 20 min, 10 μg of fresh protease (855 units) was preactivated in the same optimal activity buffer at room temperature for 15 min and then added to the protein extract to a total amount of 30 μg protease. Enzyme activity was 57 units μL−1, and one unit corresponded to the enzyme activity that catalyzes the hydrolysis of 1 μmol VRPR-AMC per min at 30°C. The same procedure was used for the control sample, but without addition of rMC9. By means of the gel analysis option in the ImageJ software (CITATION), the level of endogenous MC9 protein in Col-0 extracts was estimated to be 14-fold lower than that in 35S:MC9 extracts and ∼104-fold lower than the total amount of recombinant MC9 (30 µg) used in the in vitro COFRADIC analysis. Protein concentrations were measured with the DC protein assay (Bio-Rad), and protein extracts were further modified for N-terminal COFRADIC analysis as described (CITATION). All α-free amines, either preexisting or generated upon proteolysis, and all ε-amines (Lys residues) were blocked with N-hydroxysuccinimide esters of butyric acid–stable isotopic variants. For the analysis of the in vivo–generated samples, primary amines in the mc9 proteome were 12C4-butyrylated, whereas Col-0 or 35S:MC9 primary amines were 13C4-butyrylated. For the in vitro analysis, primary amines in the rMC9-treated sample were 13C4-butyrylated and the untreated proteome was 12C4-butyrylated. After equal amounts of the labeled proteomes had been mixed, tryptic digestion generated internal, non-N-terminal peptides that were removed by strong cation exchange at low pH (CITATION). After reversed phase-high performance liquid chromatography peptide separations with 2,4,6-trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid modification, internal peptides were further depleted and N-terminal peptides were isolated. Finally, liquid chromatography–MS/MS analysis was used for peptide identification and quantification (for a more detailed description, see Supplemental Methods 3 online). Given that Lys residues were all butyrylated and, therefore, uncleavable by trypsin (CITATION; CITATION, CITATION; CITATION), we expected to identify only tryptic peptides generated after Arg (Arg-C specificity; C-terminal to Arg). Therefore, in the search settings with one missed cleavage allowance, endoproteinase semi-Arg C/P was used that allows the identification of neo-N-terminal peptides generated after Arg-C cleavage at one terminus (using the “semi” setting) and cleavage events between Arg and Pro as well. Variable modifications were set to pyroglutamate formation of N-terminal Gln and fixed modifications included Met oxidation to its sulfoxide derivative, S-carbamidomethylation of Cys, and butyrylation (12C4 or 13C4) of the Lys side chain and peptide N termini. Identified peptides were quantified with the Mascot Distiller Toolbox (version 2.3.2.0; Matrix Science) in the precursor mode. cDNA clones received from the ABRC were used as templates for in vitro transcription and translation (T7/T3 Coupled Reticulocyte Lysate System; Promega) of 35S-radiolabeled proteins, according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Translation products were prepared in 50-μL reactions, and one-tenth was used for each rMC9 digestion. The production of the recombinant MC9 protease has been described previously (CITATION), and a range of concentrations (0 to 1000 nM) prepared in the MC9 activity buffer were included in the digestions. The reactions were incubated at 30°C for 30 min. The inactive MC9 mutant (rMC9C147AC29A) was used as a negative control (CITATION). One-tenth of the digestion assay products was separated with SDS-PAGE (CITATION). These gels were dried and exposed to phospho-imaging plates and scanned by a phosphor imager (445SI; Molecular Dynamics). PageRuler prestained protein ladder was used as protein marker (Thermo Scientific), and apparent molecular weight was calculated with ImageJ software (CITATION) The Arabidopsis PEPCK1 (AT4G37870) open reading frame was amplified by PCR from cDNA of Col-0 seeds, extended to complete attB1 and attB2 Gateway cloning sites, and cloned into the bacterial protein expression vector pDEST17 (primer sequences are listed in Supplemental Table 1 online). Bacterial (BL21-DE3-pLysE) protein production was induced in Luria Broth–growing cultures of successfully transformed bacterial clones with 0.2 mM isopropyl β-d-1-thiogalactopyranoside at 20°C overnight. Denatured PEPCK1 protein was isolated from protein inclusion bodies and subsequently purified on HIS-Select Nickel Affinity Gel resin (Sigma-Aldrich) in a buffer consisting of 50 mM sodium phosphate, 0.3 mM NaCl, and 4 M urea. For the production of the Arabidopsis PEPCK1 antibodies, 0.2 mg of purified recombinant protein was injected four times as antigen into each rabbit (Eurogentec). The rabbit antiserum was used at a 1:5000 dilution for PEPCK1 immunodetection in plant extracts. Proteins were immunodetected in 2-d-old Arabidopsis seedling extracts (or infiltrated tobacco [Nicotiana benthamiana] leaves) prepared in 1% (w/v) CHAPS, 0.5% (w/v) deoxycholate, 0.1% (w/v) SDS, 5 mM ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid, and 10% glycerol in PBS at pH 7.5 and containing the suggested amount of protease inhibitor mixture (one tablet/10 mL buffer) according to the manufacturer’s instructions (Roche Applied Science). Extracts were centrifuged at 16,000g for 10 min at 4°C, and cleared supernatants were immediately mixed with SDS-PAGE loading buffer (CITATION) and heated at 95°C for 5 min. Of the protein extract, 40 µg was used for the immunodetection of PEPCK1, MC9, CAT2 (AT4G35090), or GFP. For reprobing purposes, Immobilon P (Millipore) membranes were stripped with 0.1 M 2-mercapoethanol, 2% SDS, and 62.5 mM Tris-HCl, pH 6.7. Immunoreactive proteins were visualized with a chemiluminescence kit (Western Lightning Plus-ECL; Perkin-Elmer). Seeds were set to germinate on wet Whatman paper for 6 d at 21°C after a 3-d stratification period at 4°C in the dark. Sampling included the remaining seed coats. The carboxylation activity of PEPCK1 was measured spectrophotometrically at 340 nm as previously described (CITATION) on UV-Star 96-well plates (Greiner Bio-One). One unit of PEPCK1 activity corresponded to the production of 1 μmol product per min at 25°C. The values represent the mean of five measurements ±95% confidence interval (CITATION). During the hypocotyl elongation experiments, seeds were sown on half-strength Murashige and Skoog salts without Suc and then stratified for 3 d at 4°C in the dark. Prior to transfer to a Lovibond incubator (24 h in the dark at 21°C), seeds were exposed for 30 min to light. Hypocotyl lengths were measured to the nearest millimeter with the ImageJ software. N- and C-terminal GFP fusions of MC9 and PEPCK1 were generated as described in Supplemental Methods 5 online. For imaging, a confocal microscope 100M with software package LSM 510 version 3.2 (Zeiss) was used. Excitation was done with the 488-nm line of an argon laser. Emission fluorescence for GFP and for propidium iodide was captured via a 500- to 550-nm band-pass filter and a 585-nm long-pass filter, respectively. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: AT5G04200, AT4G37870, AT1G79340, AT1G47540, AT5G16050, AT2G21660, AT4G27440, AT2G42560, AT1G55090, AT3G51160, AT1G02150, AT2G42790, AT4G02930, AT5G07350, AT5G61780, AT1G42920, AT1G02170, AT4G25110, AT5G64240, AT1G79330, AT1G79320, AT1G79310, and AT1G16420. Furthermore, the complete set of accession numbers listed in this study is included in the Supplemental Data Set 1 online. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. General Workflow of the Positional Proteomics Methodology and Experimental Setups. Supplemental Figure 2. Venn Diagram Generated by VENNY (CITATION). Supplemental Figure 3. MC9 Specificity Monitored via Its in Vitro Proteome-Wide Substrate Profiling. Supplemental Figure 4. iceLogo Illustrating the Amino Acid Frequencies in Substrate Positions P4-P3′ (CITATION). Supplemental Figure 5. Reverse-Phase HPLC UV Absorbance Chromatogram Profiles of the Trypsin Inhibitor 2, GRF5, GRP7, and PORB Oligopeptides with the MC9 Cleavage Sites. Supplemental Figure 6. Reverse-Phase HPLC UV Absorbance Chromatogram Profiles of the PEPCK1, GRP7, and a LEA Domain–Containing Protein Oligopeptides with the MC9 Cleavage Sites. Supplemental Figure 7. Expression of the UPR Marker Genes in the Wild-Type (Col-0), the Loss-of-Function (mc9), and the Gain-of-Function (35S:MC9) Transgenic Plant Lines. Supplemental Table 1. Oligonucleotides Used in This Study. Supplemental Methods 1. Generation of Reporter Lines and MC9 Tissue Expression Analysis. Supplemental Methods 2. RNA Extraction and qRT-PCR Gene Expression Assays. Supplemental Methods 3. Peptide Identification and Quantification. Supplemental Methods 4. Assessment of Synthetic Peptide Cleavage. Supplemental Methods 5. Subcellular Protein Localization. Supplemental Data Set 1A. List of Potential Endogenous MC9 Substrates Identified in the Col-0 Proteome. Supplemental Data Set 1B. List of Potential Endogenous MC9 Substrates Identified in the 35S:MC9 Proteome. Supplemental Data Set 1C. List of Potential Endogenous MC9 Substrates Generated by the rMC9-Driven Proteolysis Added to the mc9 Proteome. Supplemental Data Set 1D. Arabidopsis Proteins That Contain the Suggested MC9 Specificity Consensus Sequences.
