!~ABS~! Cytosolic Ca2+ in guard cells plays an important role in stomatal movement responses to environmental stimuli. These cytosolic Ca2+ increases result from Ca2+ influx through Ca2+-permeable channels in the plasma membrane and Ca2+ release from intracellular organelles in guard cells. However, the genes encoding defined plasma membrane Ca2+-permeable channel activity remain unknown in guard cells and, with some exceptions, largely unknown in higher plant cells. Here, we report the identification of two Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) cation channel genes, CNGC5 and CNGC6, that are highly expressed in guard cells. Cytosolic application of cyclic GMP (cGMP) and extracellularly applied membrane-permeable 8-Bromoguanosine 3′,5′-cyclic monophosphate-cGMP both activated hyperpolarization-induced inward-conducting currents in wild-type guard cells using Mg2+ as the main charge carrier. The cGMP-activated currents were strongly blocked by lanthanum and gadolinium and also conducted Ba2+, Ca2+, and Na+ ions. cngc5 cngc6 double mutant guard cells exhibited dramatically impaired cGMP-activated currents. In contrast, mutations in CNGC1, CNGC2, and CNGC20 did not disrupt these cGMP-activated currents. The yellow fluorescent protein-CNGC5 and yellow fluorescent protein-CNGC6 proteins localize in the cell periphery. Cyclic AMP activated modest inward currents in both wild-type and cngc5cngc6 mutant guard cells. Moreover, cngc5 cngc6 double mutant guard cells exhibited functional abscisic acid (ABA)-activated hyperpolarization-dependent Ca2+-permeable cation channel currents, intact ABA-induced stomatal closing responses, and whole-plant stomatal conductance responses to darkness and changes in CO2 concentration. Furthermore, cGMP-activated currents remained intact in the growth controlled by abscisic acid2 and abscisic acid insensitive1 mutants. This research demonstrates that the CNGC5 and CNGC6 genes encode unique cGMP-activated nonselective Ca2+-permeable cation channels in the plasma membrane of Arabidopsis guard cells.
!~RES~! Cyclic nucleotide-activated ion channels function as a type of cyclic nucleotide-gated Ca2+-permeable channel in mammalian cells, and some Arabidopsis CNGCs have been reported to encode functional cyclic nucleotide-gated Ca2+-permeable channels (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We performed experiments to test whether cyclic nucleotides could trigger currents in Arabidopsis guard cells. We found that inward currents were activated in Columbia wild-type guard cells upon extracellular application of 500 μm membrane-permeable 8-Bromoguanosine 3′,5′-cyclic monophosphate (8Br)-cGMP (Fig. 1). We used Mg2+ as the main divalent cation in the bath solution because it has been established that Ca2+-permeable channels in plants cells are often permeable to multiple divalent cations, including Ca2+, Ba2+, and Mg2+, and Mg2+ would be unlikely to interfere with Ca2+-dependent responses (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Since Mg2+ and Cl− were the main ions in the bath and pipette solutions under the imposed conditions, it was possible that the 8Br-cGMP-activated inward currents result from either the influx of Mg2+ ions or the efflux of Cl− across the plasma membrane of Arabidopsis guard cells. Therefore, we analyzed the reversal potential of the 8Br-cGMP-activated currents. Due to the voltage dependence of the 8Br-cGMP-activated currents, the reversal potential could be approximately extrapolated as the voltage where the average 8Br-cGMP-activated currents merged with the average control currents in wild-type Arabidopsis guard cells, which was approximately +21 mV (Fig. 1B) after correction of the liquid junction potential of −4 mV measured as described previously (CITATION). Under the imposed conditions, equilibrium potentials of Mg2+ and Cl− were +23 and −81 mV after correction of ionic activities, respectively. The reversal potential of the 8Br-cGMP-activated currents at +21 mV was close to the equilibrium potential of Mg2+ (+23 mV) but far from that of Cl− (−81 mV). These data show a Mg2+ permeability of the 8Br-cGMP-activated currents. We tested the effects of La3+ and Gd3+, two well-known plant Ca2+ channel blockers (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), on the 8Br-cGMP-activated inward currents in guard cells. We found that the 8Br-cGMP-activated inward currents were strongly inhibited by 100 μm La3+ (n = 3) or 100 μm Gd3+ (n = 3; Fig. 2, A and B). We further tested the selectivity of 8Br-cGMP-induced currents to cations by replacing Mg2+ with the large cation, N-methyl-d-glucamine (NMDG), in the bath solution and found that the 8Br-cGMP-activated inward currents were abolished (Fig. 2C). In contrast, similar current amplitudes were observed after MgCl2 was replaced by BaCl2 at the same concentration in the bath solution (Fig. 2D), showing that the 8Br-cGMP-activated inward currents recorded in guard cells were carried mainly by these divalent cations. We also analyzed the 8Br-cGMP-activated currents using simple BaCl2 solutions, as described previously (CITATION), and found the 8Br-cGMP-activated Ba2+ currents (Fig. 2E). The reversal potential of the recorded 8Br-cGMP-activated currents was +19 mV (Fig. 2E), close to the equilibrium potential of Ba2+ (+20 mV) but distant from the equilibrium potential of Cl− (−53 mV). 8Br-cGMP-activated Ba2+ currents were also recorded using step-wise voltage pulses, indicating that the currents are hyperpolarization activated, but the activation is not time dependent (Supplemental Fig. S1). The “spiky” nature of these 8Br-cGMP-activated currents is similar to Ca2+-permeable cation channel currents recorded previously in guard cells (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). These inward currents were observed after BaCl2 was replaced by CaCl2 in the bath solution with BaCl2 in the pipette solution (n = 9) and the reversal potential was +17 mV, far from the equilibrium potential of Cl− (−53 mV; Fig. 2E). The permeability ratio for Ba2+ relative to Ca2+ was 1.46, as determined according to the Goldman-Hodgkin-Katz equation (CITATION). These results show that 8Br-cGMP activates nonselective Ca2+-permeable cation currents. Further experiments showed that the 8Br-cGMP-activated currents can also be carried by the monovalent cation Na+ (Supplemental Fig. S2), similar to ABA-activated Ca2+-permeable cation (ICa) channels in guard cells (CITATION). Taken together, these results showed that cGMP activates nonselective Ca2+-permeable cation channels in the plasma membrane of guard cells. Therefore, we named the 8Br-cGMP-activated nonselective Ca2+-permeable cation currents Icat-cGMP. [[FIGURE]] Genes encoding defined plasma membrane Ca2+-permeable channels remain poorly understood in guard cells. To identify putative Ca2+-permeable channel genes underlying Icat-cGMP, we analyzed guard cell-specific microarray sets of Arabidopsis (CITATION; CITATION) and found that CNGC1 (At5g53130), CNGC2 (At5g15410), CNGC5 (At5g57940), CNGC6 (At2g23980), CNGC15 (At2g28260), and CNGC20 (At3g17700) genes were highly expressed in guard cells (Supplemental Table S1). We obtained cngc transfer DNA (T-DNA) insertion mutant lines for these CNGC genes. As CNGC5 and CNGC6 are among the two most closely related of the 20 CNGC genes, we generated cngc5 cngc6 double mutants by crossing the single mutants for further experiments (Fig. 3). Reverse transcription PCR and quantitative real-time (RT)-PCR analyses showed that the mRNA levels of CNGC5 and CNGC6 were greatly reduced or abolished in cngc5-1cngc6-1 (Fig. 3, B and C). [[FIGURE]] To pursue the identification of genes encoding ion channels that mediate Icat-cGMP in Arabidopsis guard cells, we performed patch-clamp experiments on cngc5-1 and cngc6-1 single mutant and cngc5-1 cngc6-1 double mutant guard cells as well as on cngc2 and cngc1 cngc20 double mutants. Patch-clamp experiments showed that average current magnitudes of Icat-cGMP were only partially reduced in the two single mutants, including an insignificant average reduction in the cngc6-1 single mutant (Fig. 4, B and C; P ≤ 0.005 for cngc5-1 versus the wild type, P = 0.585 for cngc6-1 versus the wild type at −184 mV). Note that all data were included in these analyses, and the data from cngc6-1 guard cells included one guard cell with a large leak-like current after 8Br-cGMP addition, thus adding to a larger degree of error (Fig. 4C; for an independent cngc6-1 data set, see Fig. 7C below). We analyzed cngc5-1 cngc6-1 double mutant guard cells, which showed strongly impaired 8Br-cGMP-activated currents (Fig. 4, A and D), compared with the Columbia wild type (Fig. 1; P < 0.001 at –184 mV). These data indicate that CNGC5 and CNGC6 contribute to the activity of the Icat-cGMP channel currents in Arabidopsis guard cells. [[FIGURE]] To further test the effects of mutations in CNGC5 and CNGC6 on Icat-cGMP, we generated a second double mutant allele, cngc5-2 cngc6-2, in the Wassilewskija (Ws) accession. CNGC6 mRNA levels in the cncg5-2 cngc6-2 mutant were greatly reduced (Supplemental Fig. S3). The CNGC5 transcript has two splice isoforms in Ws (Supplemental Fig. S3). We thus amplified several independent CNGC5 transcripts in cngc5-2. The 5′ untranslated region insertion in cngc5-2 showed either greatly reduced transcripts for two different primer pairs, including primers that amplified transcript starting 490 bp 5′ of the CNGC start site (Supplemental Fig. S3), or an increased transcript level with primers amplifying from the predicted start (ATG) site of the CNGC5 transcript (Supplemental Fig. S3, B and C). These data indicate that the CNGC6 gene was clearly reduced, whereas the CNGC5 gene was less clearly affected in the cngc5-2 cngc6-2 double mutant. We confirmed significant activation of Icat-cGMP by 20 μm cGMP applied in the pipette solution in Ws wild-type guard cells (Supplemental Fig. S4). In contrast, impaired activation was observed in cngc6-2 mutant guard cells (cngc5-2 cngc6-2 double mutant allele; Supplemental Fig. S4), providing evidence for an important function of CNGC6 in mediating the cGMP-activated current in the Ws accession. The effect of the T-DNA insertion in CNGC5 and aberrant CNGC5 transcripts amplified in cngc5-2 cngc6-2 cannot, at present, unequivocally define or exclude a contribution of CNGC5 to this phenotype in the Ws accession. Microarray data sets suggest that several other CNGC genes are expressed in guard cells, including CNGC1, CNGC2, CNGC15, and CNGC20 (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; Supplemental Table S1), and it has been reported that CNGC2 functions as a cAMP-activated Ca2+-permeable channel in Arabidopsis guard cells (CITATION). Therefore, we isolated cngc1, cngc2, and cngc20 T-DNA insertion mutants and generated a cngc1 cngc20 double mutant line in the Ws ecotype background. The cngc15 insertion mutant line (SALK_017995) had a T-DNA insertion in the 5′ untranslated region of CNGC15 and did not exhibit a reduction in CNGC15 transcript level; thus, CNGC15 could not be analyzed in this study. We performed further patch-clamp experiments on cngc2 and cngc1 cngc20 mutant guard cells and found that there was no significant difference of Icat-cGMP in cngc2 mutant guard cells (Fig. 5B) and its Columbia wild type (Fig. 5A; P = 0.474 at −184 mV) as well as between the cngc1 cngc20 double mutant (Fig. 5D) and its Ws wild type (Fig. 5C; P = 0.245 at −184 mV). These results indicate that 8Br-cGMP mainly activated CNGC5 and CNGC6 in the wild type relative to CNGC1, CNGC2, and CNGC20 in Arabidopsis guard cells under the imposed conditions. [[FIGURE]] cAMP has been shown to activate Ca2+-permeable currents in Arabidopsis guard cells using Ba2+ as the main divalent cation in both bath and pipette solutions (CITATION). As reported above, 8Br-cGMP-activated inward currents could be carried by Ba2+ (Fig. 2, D and E). We analyzed cAMP-activated inward currents using Mg2+ as the main charge carrier. The results showed that only modest cAMP-activated inward currents were observed in both Columbia wild-type (Supplemental Fig. S5A) and cngc5-1 cngc6-1 double mutant (Supplemental Fig. S5B) guard cells with 100 μm cAMP applied into the pipette solution. There was no significant difference between Columbia wild-type and cngc5-1 cngc6-1 double mutant guard cells (Supplemental Fig. S5; P = 0.151 at −184 mV). These data and the lack of impairment of cGMP activation in cngc2 guard cells (Fig. 5B), compared with cAMP response impairment in cngc2 (CITATION), suggest that the cGMP-activated currents in the Mg2+ solutions analyzed here differ from the cAMP-activated currents. To gain insight into the cellular targeting of yellow fluorescent protein (YFP)-tagged CNGC5 and CNGC6 proteins, we transiently expressed CNGC5 and CNGC6 fused to enhanced-YFP (EYFP) in N. benthamiana protoplasts and conducted EYFP fluorescence imaging experiments using confocal microscopy. The results showed localization of YFP-CNGC5 in microdomains in the periphery of N. benthamiana protoplasts (Fig. 6). Similar microdomain localizations of plant GFP-CNGC fusions have been observed previously, including for CNGC1, CNGC11, and CNGC12 (CITATION; CITATION). YFP-CNGC6 also localized to the periphery of N. benthamiana protoplasts. YFP-CNGC6 did not show a strong concentration in microdomains (Fig. 6) and overlapped partially with the plasma membrane stain FM4-64 (CITATION; Fig. 6). In contrast, control YFP-expressing protoplasts showed more broadly distributed YFP fluorescence signals, including in the cytoplasm and nuclei (Fig. 6). These results provide initial evidence that CNGC5 and CNGC6 are targeted to the periphery of plant cells at the plasma membrane, which correlates with the strong reductions in Icat-cGMP activity in the plasma membrane of cngc5-1 cngc6-1 double mutant guard cells and is consistent with recent YFP fusion localization analysis of CNGC6 (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] We used membrane-permeable 8Br-cGMP to activate large currents in guard cells, allowing facile analyses before and after application (Figs. 1, 2, 4, and 5). To test whether intracellular cGMP can activate Icat-cGMP, we conducted further patch-clamp experiments using cGMP at a lower concentration (20 μm) added to the pipette solution in whole-cell recordings. We observed obvious Icat-cGMP currents in Columbia wild-type guard cells (Fig. 7A). Icat-cGMP was reduced in cngc5-1 (Fig. 7B), cngc6-1 (Fig. 7C), and cngc5-1 cngc6-1 (Fig. 7D) mutant guard cells compared with the Columbia wild type (Fig. 7A; P = 0.013, 0.044, and 0.032 for cngc5-1, cngc6-1, and cngc5-1 cngc6-1 mutants, respectively, compared with the wild type at −184 mV), indicating that intracellular cGMP is capable of activating Icat-cGMP and CNGC5 and CNGC6 function in the intracellular cGMP response. Note that we cannot exclude that an additional CNGC gene(s) may be up-regulated in these cngc insertion mutant lines or that additional CNGC genes contribute to the small average residual currents in cncg5 cngc6 double mutant guard cells. However, clearly, both CNGC5 and CNGC6 function in the establishment of the cGMP-activated currents. We also tested the effects of 20 μm cAMP added in the pipette solution. We did not observe obvious activation of inward currents in Columbia wild-type guard cells (Supplemental Fig. S6), indicating that cAMP activation may occur through other channels or at higher cAMP concentrations. [[FIGURE]] ABA triggers cytosolic Ca2+ increases and activates nonselective Ca2+-permeable cation channels in Arabidopsis guard cells (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Similar to Icat-cGMP, ABA-activated ICa channels are permeable to Ba2+ (CITATION; CITATION), Na+ (CITATION), and Mg2+ (Supplemental Fig. S7). Therefore, we performed patch-clamp experiments to test whether CNGC5 and CNGC6 function as ABA-activated ICa channels using Ba2+ as the main divalent cation in both bath and pipette solutions, as reported previously (CITATION; CITATION). Genotype-blind patch-clamp experiments showed that measurable ABA activation of ICa currents was observed in cngc5-1 cngc6-1 guard cells (P < 0.037; Fig. 8, C and D) as well as in Columbia wild-type guard cells (P < 0.018; Fig. 8, A and B). A small effect of the cngc5 cngc6 double mutation on ABA-activated ICa channel currents could not be excluded, based on slightly smaller average currents and an apparent slight shift in the activation potential. The ABA-insensitive mutants growth controlled by abscisic acid2 (gca2) and abscisic acid insensitive1 (abi1-1) show impaired ABA activation of ICa channel currents (CITATION; CITATION). We next analyzed Icat-cGMP in gca2 and abi1-1 mutant guard cells as well as in Landsberg erecta wild-type guard cells and found that 8Br-cGMP-activated Icat-cGMP currents were not disrupted in gca2 (Fig. 9B) and abi1-1 (Fig. 9C) guard cells compared with the Landsberg erecta wild type (Fig. 9A). These observations together strongly suggest that CNGC5 and CNGC6 alone are not essential for ABA-activated ICa channels in Arabidopsis guard cells. To further test whether CNGC5 and CNGC6 function in ABA signaling, we pursued ABA-induced stomatal closure analyses and found that both the Columbia wild type and the cngc5-1 cngc6-1 double mutant showed functional ABA-induced responses (Fig. 10), in line with patch-clamp analyses (Figs. 8 and 9). Moreover, cytosolic Ca2+ has also been shown to play a role in CO2-induced stomatal movements (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Therefore we also addressed CO2-induced changes in whole-plant stomatal conductance of CNGC5 and CNGC6 double mutants. The results show that mutation of CNGC5 and CNGC6 did not disrupt CO2-induced stomatal closure and opening (Fig. 11). Moreover, light/dark transitions showed similar intact plant stomatal conductances in wild-type and cngc5-1 cngc6-1 double mutant plants (Supplemental Fig. S8). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) plants (Columbia, Landsberg erecta, and Ws ecotypes) were grown in soil (Sunrise) in a growth chamber (Conviron) under a 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle at a photon fluence rate of approximately 75 μmol m−2 s−1 during the day, a humidity of approximately 75%, and a temperature of 21°C ± 0.5°C. The cngc2 (SALK_129133), cngc5-1 (SALK_149893), and cngc6-1 (SALK_042207) mutants were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. cngc5-2 (FLAG_295E04) and cngc6-2 (FLAG418_D11) were in the Ws background and obtained from the INRA. cngc1 and cngc20 were in the Ws background and kindly provided by Dr. Hillel Fromm (INRA) and the Arabidopsis knockout facility at the University of Wisconsin Biotechnology Center (CITATION; CITATION). Guard cell protoplasts of Arabidopsis were isolated enzymatically as described previously (CITATION). For patch-clamp experiments of Icat-cGMP, the bath solution contained 92.5 mm MgGlu, 7.5 mm MgCl2, and 10 mm MES-HCl (5 mm HCl), pH 5.6, and osmolarity was adjusted to 485 mmol L−1 using d-sorbitol. The pipette solutions contained 9.75 mm MgGlu, 0.25 mm MgCl2, 4 mm EGTA, and 10 mm HEPES-Tris, pH 7.1, and osmolarity was adjusted to 500 mmol L−1. Each day, 0.1 mm DTT was freshly added in the bath and pipette solutions, and no NADPH was added in the pipette solution for all cGMP-dependent Icat-cGMP recordings. Control experiments performed in the absence of DTT showed that 8Br-cGMP continued to activate Icat-cGMP (n = 4 guard cells). A voltage ramp protocol from −180 to +20 mV (holding potential, 0 mV; ramp speed, 200 mV s−1) was applied for Icat-cGMP recordings. Whole-cell currents were recorded every minute for 10 min after accessing whole-cell configurations with patch-clamp seal resistances of no less than 10 GΩ. Data prior to 8Br-cGMP exposure were used as preexposure baseline control conditions. Subsequently, cyclic nucleotide-activated currents were recorded 30 times per minute after cyclic nucleotide (8Br-cGMP) was added to the bath solution. For experiments analyzing the effects of cAMP and cGMP added to the pipette solution, the first trace recorded after accessing the whole-cell configuration was used as a baseline control, and the traces recorded subsequently were analyzed for effects of cyclic nucleotides. Liquid junction potential was −4 ± 1 mV, measured as described previously (CITATION) and corrected in Figure 1B. No leak subtraction was applied to the depicted data. A 1 m KCl agar bridge was used as a bath electrode to stabilize bath electrode potentials, which is needed in particular when bath Cl− concentrations are changed during recordings. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings of ABA activation of ICa were performed as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). The pipette solution contained 10 mm BaCl2, 4 mm EGTA, and 10 mm HEPES-Tris, pH 7.1, osmolarity was adjusted to 500 mmol L−1 using d-sorbitol, and 0.1 mm DTT and 5 mm NADPH were freshly added each day. The bath solution contained 100 mm BaCl2 and 10 mm MES-Tris, pH 5.6, osmolarity was adjusted to 485 mmol L−1 using d-sorbitol, and 0.1 mm DTT was freshly added each day. A ramp voltage protocol from +20 to −180 mV (holding potential, 0 mV; ramp speed, 200 mV s−1) was used for ICa recordings. Initial control whole-cell currents were recorded once each minute for 16 times starting 1 to 3 min after accessing the whole-cell configurations. The seal resistance was no less than 10 GΩ. Then, ABA was added to the bath solution by perfusion, and guard cell protoplasts were exposed to ABA in the bath solution for 3 min. Subsequently, ICa was recorded for another 16 min. Liquid junction potential of −18 mV was not corrected in the figures, and leak currents were not subtracted. Total RNA was isolated with an RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen). After treatment with RNase-free DNase I (Qiagen), first-strand complementary DNA (cDNA) was synthesized from 1 μg of total RNA using a first-strand cDNA synthesis kit (GE Healthcare) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. DNA fragments for CNGC5 and CNGC6 were amplified by 35 PCR cycles using specific primers (Supplemental Table S2). The EF-1α transcript was amplified for 22 PCR cycles. For real-time quantitative RT-PCR analysis, total RNA was extracted from 3-week-old plants using Trizol reagent (Invitrogen). cDNA was synthesized from RNA using Moloney murine leukemia virus reverse transcriptase (Promega) with oligo(dT)15 primers (Promega). Real-time quantitative PCR was performed using TransStart Green qPCR SuperMix on a Bio-Rad CFX Connect Real Time PCR system according to the manufacturer’s protocols with specific primers (Supplemental Table S2). Quantification of relative gene expression was achieved by normalization to 18S ribosomal RNA. The coding regions of the CNGC5 and CNGC6 cDNAs were cloned into pENTR/D-TOPO vector using specific primers (Supplemental Table S2), sequenced, and then transferred to the N-terminal fusions to YFP destination vector pH35YG by Gateway LR recombination reaction (Invitrogen). The Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 carrying the gene of interest was used and infiltrated at an optical density at 600 nm of 0.5 together with the p19 strain in Nicotiana benthamiana. Mesophyll protoplasts were isolated from the leaves after 5 d of infiltration according to instructions (CITATION; CITATION) and then treated with FM4-64 (Invitrogen). Fluorescence imaging was analyzed by confocal microscopy (Nikon Eclipse TE2000-U) using 488-nm excitation and 500- to 550-nm emission filters for YFP or 568-nm excitation and 580- to 650-nm emission filters for FM4-64. All experiments were conducted as genotype-blind experiments. ABA-dependent stomatal apertures were analyzed as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). To analyze CO2- and light/dark transition-induced changes in whole-plant stomatal conductance, we used 25- to 28-d-old plants and a custom-made gas-exchange device. The device and plant growth conditions have been described previously (CITATION; CITATION). Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers CNGC1 (At5g53130), CNGC2 (At5g15410), CNGC5 (At5g57940), CNGC6 (At2g23980), CNGC15 (At2g28260), and CNGC20 (At3g17700). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Barium currents activated by 8Br-cGMP in guard cells. Supplemental Figure S2. Na+ permeability of the 8Br-cGMP-activated currents in guard cells. Supplemental Figure S3. CNGC5 and CNGC6 transcript analysis in cngc5-2 cngc6-2 mutant. Supplemental Figure S4. Inward currents activated by 20 mm cGMP. Supplemental Figure S5. Modest inward currents activated by 100 μm cAMP. Supplemental Figure S6. Twenty millimeters of cAMP failed to activate obvious inward currents in Columbia wild-type guard cells. Supplemental Figure S7. ABA-activated ICa currents are Mg2+ permeable. Supplemental Figure S8. Whole plant stomatal conductances in response to light/dark transition. Supplemental Table S1. Transcriptome-derived raw expression data of CNGC transcripts in guard cells. Supplemental Table S2. Oligonucleotides used in this work.
