!~ABS~! Eukaryotic sugar transporters of the MFS and SWEET superfamilies consist of 12 and 7 α-helical transmembrane domains (TMs), respectively. Structural analyses indicate that MFS transporters evolved from a series of tandem duplications of an ancestral 3-TM unit. SWEETs are heptahelical proteins carrying a tandem repeat of 3-TM separated by a single TM. Here, we show that prokaryotes have ancestral SWEET homologs with only 3-TM and that the Bradyrhizobium japonicum SemiSWEET1, like Arabidopsis SWEET11, mediates sucrose transport. Eukaryotic SWEETs most likely evolved by internal duplication of the 3-TM, suggesting that SemiSWEETs form oligomers to create a functional pore. However, it remains elusive whether the 7-TM SWEETs are the functional unit or require oligomerization to form a pore sufficiently large to allow for sucrose passage. Split ubiquitin yeast two-hybrid and split GFP assays indicate that Arabidopsis SWEETs homo- and heterooligomerize. We examined mutant SWEET variants for negative dominance to test if oligomerization is necessary for function. Mutation of the conserved Y57 or G58 in SWEET1 led to loss of activity. Coexpression of the defective mutants with functional A. thaliana SWEET1 inhibited glucose transport, indicating that homooligomerization is necessary for function. Collectively, these data imply that the basic unit of SWEETs, similar to MFS sugar transporters, is a 3-TM unit and that a functional transporter contains at least four such domains. We hypothesize that the functional unit of the SWEET family of transporters possesses a structure resembling the 12-TM MFS structure, however, with a parallel orientation of the 3-TM unit.
!~RES~! To investigate whether prokaryotic genomes carry SWEET homologs, extensive BLAST and PFAM searches were conducted. Over 90 homologs from 61 different prokaryotic genera were identified. A phylogenetic tree was constructed with one representative homolog from each genus (FIG-REF and Table S1). Most of the homologs belong to the PQ-loop family and contain a single PQ-loop motif, which is embedded in a 3-TM structure (PFAM). By contrast, PQ-loop members in eukaryotes, such as the SWEETs, have 7-TM, an internal repeat of the 3-TM unit, and each one contains one PQ-loop motif (CITATION⇓–CITATION). Because of their structure, the prokaryotic homologs were named SemiSWEETs. The proteins are found widely dispersed across the prokaryotic kingdom, including archaea and eubacteria. We did not observe a consistent pattern of SemiSWEET association with other genes across all organisms, but we did find some of the bacterial PQ-loop genes located in sugar metabolism-related operons (e.g., glycogen metabolism, PII transporters, and 6-phospho-β-glucosidase) (Fig. S1). [[FIGURE]] To test whether SemiSWEETs transport sugars, ORFs for eight SemiSWEET homologs (Bradyrhizobium japonicum (Bj) NP_773100.1; Geobacter metallireducens: YP_006720336.1; Cyanothece sp.: YP_001804114.1; Rhodothermus marinus: YP_003291276.1; Thermodesulfovibrio yellowstonii: YP_002249334.1; Treponema denticola: NP_973127.1; Lactobacillus casei: YP_806002.1; and Nostoc sp: NP_484838.1) were amplified and cloned into a Gateway entry vector. Inserts were mobilized into destination vectors for expression in oocytes, HEK293T cells, and yeast cells. We did not observe glucose uptake activity in any of the expression systems. However, when coexpressed with an FRET sucrose sensor in human HEK293T cells, a system previously used to identify plant and animal SWEETs (CITATION, CITATION), sucrose uptake activity was detected for BjSemiSWEET1 from B. japonicum USDA 110 (Gene ID: 1047436; gi27375111: 7112216–7112476) (FIG-REF). We also did not observe glucose uptake activity when expressing BjSemiSWEET1 in a yeast hexose transport mutant (FIG-REF). SWEETs do not seem to use a proton-coupled transport mechanism, and thus, are considered to function as uniporters (CITATION, CITATION). As uniporters, SWEETs could function in sucrose efflux down a concentration gradient. A variety of cyanobacterial species accumulate high levels of cytosolic sucrose as an osmolyte under conditions of osmotic stress (CITATION), and this property has been exploited for the production of carbohydrate feed stocks from cyanobacteria (CITATION⇓–CITATION). We tested the sucrose efflux capacity of SWEETs by expressing AtSWEET11 and SemiSWEETs in Synechococcus elongatus PCC 7942 and measuring the accumulation of extracellular sucrose in cyanobacterial cultures exposed to osmotic stress. SWEET-expressing cyanobacteria were grown for 12 h under continuous light, and NaCl was added to induce the accumulation of cytosolic sucrose available for efflux. The results show that BjSemiSWEET1 and AtSWEET11 function as sucrose effluxers. AtSWEET11 seemed slightly more effective at exporting sucrose, particularly at low osmotic pressures (FIG-REF). Together, the data from two different expression systems show that Bradyrhizobium BjSemiSWEET1, similar to its plant SWEET11 counterpart, can mediate cellular sucrose uptake and efflux. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Because the 3-TM containing BjSemiSWEET1 was sufficient for sucrose transport activity in both cyanobacterial and human HEK293T cells and because 3-TMs are insufficient to form a functional pore that can conduct sucrose, it is likely that SemiSWEETs dimerize to create a functional pore similar to the 7-TM (3-1-3) SWEETs. To address this question, the first and second 3-TMs of the 7-TM glucose transporter AtSWEET1 were expressed separately in yeast; each half contains one 3-TM MtN3/saliva motif (based on TMHMM transmembrane helix analysis). The first half contained TM helices 1–4 (N1–121 aa), whereas helices 5–7 (C122–247 aa) were used as the second half. When the 3-TM halves were expressed separately in the yeast hexose transport mutant EBY4000, neither of them alone could transport glucose (FIG-REF). However, transport activity was reconstituted when the two halves were coexpressed, indicating a functional interaction between the two separately expressed domains. BjSemiSWEET1 could not substitute the function of either of the halves of AtSWEET1, although its 3-TM unit is closely related to both AtSWEET1 halves (FIG-REF). Interestingly, although the fourth TM is the least conserved among the 7-TM of the SWEET family and thus, is considered to serve as a linker that helps orient the repeat units in a parallel configuration, attachment of TM4 to the first 3-TM half of AtSWEET1 seemed essential (FIG-REF and Fig. S2A); additional analysis showed that BjSemiSWEET1-GFP does not seem to be targeted to the plasma membrane but rather, accumulates in intracellular compartments of yeast (Fig. S2B). Together, these results support the hypothesis that SemiSWEETs form at least dimers to assume a configuration similar as in structure of eukaryotic SWEETs to assemble a functional sugar-translocating pore. Given that other known sugar transporters of the MFS family are built from 12-TM, one may hypothesize that 7-TM may be insufficient to form a pore large enough to allow for sucrose transport. It is, therefore, conceivable that SWEETs function as higher-order oligomers (e.g., dimers), whereas SemiSWEETs function as tetramers. To directly test the ability of 3-TM SemiSWEETs and 7-TM SWEETs to form homo- or heterooligomers, interactions were tested systematically using the mating-based split ubiquitin assay (CITATION). All 17 Arabidopsis SWEETs and BjSemiSWEET were fused C-terminally to NubG (N-terminal ubiquitin domain carrying a glycine mutation) or Cub (C-terminal ubiquitin domain driven by methionine repressible MET25 promoter and fused to the artificial PLV transcription factor). NubWT and NubG were used as positive and negative controls, respectively, to test the affinity to Cub-SWEETs or Cub-BjSemiSWEET in parallel, because some constructs are able to autoactivate. The interactions were tested on synthetic dextrose (SD) media (-Trp, -Leu, and -His) by monitoring yeast cell growth. BjSemiSWEET is capable of forming a homooligomer in yeast (FIG-REF). Homooligomerization of BjSemiSWEET was also observed in the split GFP system (CITATION) (FIG-REF); in total, 20 SWEET interaction pairs were observed. Eight SWEETs (SWEET2, -3, -6, -8, -12, -13, -15, and -17) showed autoactivation when expressed as Cub fusions and therefore, initially could not be scored (Fig. S3). Because Cub fusions are expressed from the methionine-repressible MET25 promoter, increasing the amount of methionine in the media decreases the expression level of Cub fusions, thereby increasing the interaction stringency. Application of 500 µM methionine did not completely inhibit autoactivation of six SWEET-Cubs (SWEET2, -3, -12, -13, -15, and -17), whereas two SWEET-Cubs (SWEET2 and -3) showed significantly reduced autoactivation. A total of 40 more SWEET interaction pairs was identified under the more stringent (500 µM methionine) media conditions (Fig. S4). The analysis indicates that at least eight of the SWEETs can form homooligomers; also, we observed 47 heterooligomers (FIG-REF and Figs. S3 and S4). Because both insufficient expression levels and autoactivation restrict the testable combinations, we likely underestimate the number of possible interactions. To independently test interactions using an orthologous assay and determine whether the interactions can also occur in planta, oligomerization was tested for 13 pairs using the split GFP assay (CITATION). The NH2-proximal half of the YFP (nYFP) and C-proximal half of the CFP (cCFP) were fused to the C terminus of five different AtSWEETs (AtSWEET1, -4, -6, -8, and -11), and fusion proteins were transiently coexpressed in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves. The split GFP data confirm that SWEETs can form homooligomers, specifically for SWEET1, -8, and -11 (FIG-REF). By contrast, homooligomerization of SWEET6 was not observed in the split GFP assay. Interestingly, SWEET4 was found to form homooligomers in planta (FIG-REF), whereas no oligomerization was detected in the yeast two-hybrid system. Importantly, all interactions seemed to occur at the plasma membrane except for AtSWEET1, for which interactions were observed in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and vesicular compartments (FIG-REF). The localization in endogenous membrane compartments is consistent with other transient expression analyses performed with an AtSWEET1-YFP fusion in Arabidopsis protoplasts (CITATION) (Fig. S5), but it contrasts with data obtained in stably transformed Arabidopsis transformants (CITATION). It is likely that overexpression of SWEET-GFP fusions in protoplasts or tobacco can lead to mistargeting. Together, our results support the hypothesis that SWEET proteins form homo- or heterooligomeric complexes. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] One way of analyzing the necessity of dimerization for function is to test whether nonfunctional forms of the protein can inactivate functional transporters (CITATION, CITATION). As a first step to testing negative dominance, it was necessary to identify transport-deficient mutants. We rationalized that highly conserved residues may be important for activity. Analysis of alignments of SWEETs selected from different plant species identified highly conserved amino acid residues (Fig. S6). Six positions (P23, P43, Y57, G58, Y179, and G180) in three different TM were selected for site-directed mutagenesis (FIG-REF). Glucose transport activity was tested by expression in the glucose uptake-deficient yeast strain EBY4000 and subsequent monitoring of growth of yeast colonies on media containing glucose as the sole carbon source (CITATION). Four mutations (P23T, Y57A, G58D, and G180D) abolished glucose transport activity, whereas the other two mutants (P43T and Y179A) seemed unaffected (FIG-REF). To exclude that the lack of complementation is caused by a trafficking defect that leads to reduced accumulation of the SWEET protein at the plasma membrane, we localized C-terminal GFP fusions using confocal microscopy in yeast (FIG-REF). We were able to confirm previous reports showing that AtSWEET1-GFP fusions localize to the plasma membrane of yeast and retain glucose transport activity (CITATION) (Fig. S7). GFP fusions of wild type SWEET1 and SWEET1-P23T, -P43T, -G58D, and -Y179A were all detectable at the plasma membrane (FIG-REF). By contrast, SWEET1-G180D-GFP showed significantly reduced plasma membrane localization, whereas SWEET1-Y57A-GFP accumulated predominantly in intracellular compartments. SWEET1-P23T and -G58D were characterized by loss transport activity, although plasma membrane localization seemed unaffected, indicating that these mutations led to nonfunctional transporters. Loss of glucose transport activity of SWEET1-Y57A and -G180D may be caused either solely by mistargeting of proteins or by both loss of transport/dimerization capacity and targeting defects. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To test whether the nonfunctional SWEET1 mutants interact and inhibit the activity of coexpressed functional transporters, SWEET1 was coexpressed with each of four nonfunctional mutants (P23T, Y57A, G58D, and G180D). Wild type SWEET1 was expressed from the strong ADH promoter, whereas the mutants were expressed from the strong PMA1 promoter (fragment). Analysis of yeast colony growth on the media with glucose as the sole carbon source showed that SWEET1-P23T and -G180D led to slightly reduced glucose transport activity, whereas SWEET1-Y57A and -G58D dramatically inhibited wild type SWEET1 activity (FIG-REF). Based on the localization of the mutants, we can differentiate two types of negative dominance; coexpression of SWEET1-Y57A with a functional SWEET results in the complete loss of SWEET1 activity, perhaps caused by oligomerization within the trafficking pathway, leading to retention of the transporter and supporting notion that SWEET1 forms functional homooligomers (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). Importantly, SWEET1-G58D, which seemed unaffected with respect to plasma membrane targeting, also inhibited SWEET1 activity when coexpressed with wild type transporter (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). Taken together, these results strongly suggest that SWEET monomers are not capable of forming sugar-translocating pores on their own but require oligomerization for transport activity. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The MtN3/saliva (PF03083) motif found in eukaryotic SWEETs was used for similarity searches in National Center for Biotechnology Information, European Molecular Biology Laboratory, and DNA Data Base in Japan databases. Retrieved sequences were first verified by alignment with Clustal Omega (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/Tools/msa/clustalo/) and subsequently analyzed with Weblogo3.3 (http://weblogo.threeplusone.com/create.cgi). The phylogenic relationship was inferred using neighbor joining (CITATION). The optimal tree with the sum of branch length = 24.05 is shown (FIG-REF). The tree is drawn to scale, with branch lengths in the same units as the evolutionary distances of species used to infer the phylogenetic tree. Evolutionary distances were computed using the Poisson correction method (CITATION) and are in the units of the number of amino acid substitutions per site. The analysis involved 62 amino acid sequences. All positions containing gaps and missing data were eliminated. There was a total of 60 positions in the final dataset. Evolutionary analyses were conducted in MEGA5 (CITATION). The ORF of the single PQ-loop–containing gene from B. japonicum USDA 110 was amplified and cloned into a Gateway Entry Vector pDONR221f1 (Invitrogen) by BP (recombination of attB sites with attP sites) reaction as described (CITATION). Primers used amplification of the gene are as follows: 5′-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTTCACCATGGACCCGTTCTTGATCAAG-3′; 5′-GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTCGGATCCGCCGTATCTCAGCTTCATCAC-3′. After sequence confirmation, the ORF was transferred into the destination vectors pDRf1-GW and pcDNA3.2/V5-DEST (Invitrogen) by LR (recombination of attL sites with attR sites) reactions. Analyses for sucrose uptake activity into human cells were performed using an FRET sucrose sensor as described (CITATION, CITATION). HEK293T cells were cotransfected with plasmids containing the sucrose sensor FLIPsuc90µ∆1V (1 µg) and the candidate gene BjSemiSWEET1 (1 µg) in six-well plates using Lipofectamine 2000 (Invitrogen). FRET imaging and analyses were performed as described (CITATION). The sucrose transporter AtSWEET11 (plus the sucrose sensor FLIPsuc90µ∆1V) and the sucrose sensor alone were used as positive and negative controls, respectively. Transmembrane spanning domains of AtSWEET1 were predicted by TMHMM (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TMHMM/; Aramemnon). The two MtN3/saliva motifs of AtSWEET1 were amplified using the primer pairs AtF1-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTTCACCATGAACATCGCTCACACTATC; AtR1-GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTCGGATCCTTAAAGAGCAAAGAGAGAGACAGA for the N-proximal half-size protein and AtF2-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTTCACCATGCAAGGAAACGGTAGAAAACTC; AtR2-GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTCGGATCCTTAAACTTGAAGGTCTTGCTTTCC for the C-proximal half-size protein. For mutation of conserved residues in AtSWEET1 by PCR, the following primers were used: mP23 F-CTTGGCTACTTCGATAAC, mP23 R-GTTATCGAAGTAGCCAAG; mP43 F-TGGTATCACTTATCCAAT, mP43 R-ATTGGATAAGTGATACCA; mY57 F-CTCTGCTTGGGCTGGACT, mY57 R-AGTCCAGCCCAAGCAGAG; mG58 F-GGTATGATCTTCCCTTTG, mG58 R-CAAAGGGAAGATCATACC; mY179 F-GTGGTTCGTCGCTGGTCT, mY179 R-AGACCAGCGACGAACCAC; and mG180 F-GTCTATGATCTAATCGGT, mG180 R-ACCGATTAGATCATAGAC. Target PCR fragments were purified and cloned into the Gateway entry vector pDONR221f1 as described above. Entry clone plasmids were mixed with destination vectors pDRf1-GW or/and p112AINE-GW for constructs expressing in yeast by LR reactions. Coexpressions of different combinations of half-size AtSWEET1 versions (each containing an MtN3/saliva motif) or WT and mutant AtSWEET1 were performed by cotransformation of the yeast hexose transporter mutant EBY4000 [hxt1-17D::loxP gal2D::loxP stl1D::loxP agt1D::loxP ydl247wD::loxP yjr160cD::loxP] with pDRf1-GW– and p112AINE-GW–based plasmids through LiCl2 transformation. The yeast hexose transporter HXT5 was used as a positive control, and empty vectors pDRf1 plus p112AINE were introduced as a negative control. To exclude artifacts caused by differences in the vector/promoter on introduced SWEET expression, each combination of two MtN3/saliva motifs containing half-sized proteins was repeated by exchanging the respective host vectors. Transformants were first grown on selective synthetic complete (SC) (-Ura and -Trp) medium containing 2% (vol/vol) maltose (Sigma) as the sole carbon source, and subsequently, they were streaked on solid SC (-Ura and -Trp) media supplemented with 2% glucose (Sigma) as the sole carbon source and incubated at 30 °C for 4 d. Growth was recorded by scanning the plates on a flatbed scanner. S. elongatus PCC 7942 was grown in temperature-controlled (32 °C) and CO2-controlled (2%) Multitron Infors HT Incubators with CO2 and photosynthetic lighting options (ATR) installed with fluorescent bulbs (15 W Gro-Lux; Sylvania) and constant illumination at the growth surface of ∼100 µE m2 s−1. Flasks were shaken at 100 rpm. Cultures were grown in BG11 media buffered with 1 g/L Hepes (pH 8.3; Sigma) to improve consistency during culture dilutions (this step was not necessary for sucrose export). Construction of strains overexpressing SemiSWEETs and SWEETs was obtained through traditional cloning using isothermal assembly methods (CITATION) into Neutral Site 3 vector (CITATION) and transformed into S. elongatus 7924 as previously described (CITATION, CITATION). Genomic integration of target constructs was selected on BG11 plates with 12.5 µg/mL chloramphenicol and verified through colony PCR and sequencing. WT-, SWEET-, and SemiSWEET-bearing cyanobacteria were grown as described above and diluted daily to maintain cultures in log phase (OD750 between 0.3 and 1.5). To assay sucrose secretion, 50 mL cyanobacterial cultures were pelleted for 15 min at ∼1,500 × g (Sorvall Legend), washed one time, pelleted, and resuspended in fresh BG11 (7+ mL) with 1 mM IPTG (isopropyl β-D-1-thiogalactopyranoside) and the indicated concentration of NaCl. Cell density in concentrated cultures was determined through measurement of OD750 (Spectramax Plus; Molecular Devices), and cultures were diluted to a uniform density OD750 at 2.5. Induced cyanobacteria were grown in 0.5- to 1-mL cultures in a 24-well plate format in the incubator with illumination as described above for 12 h of continuous light. Cyanobacterial cells were then pelleted, and sucrose secretion rates were determined from the culture supernatant using Sucrose/D-Glucose Assay Kits (Megazyme). For mating-based split ubiquitin assays, all 17 AtSWEET ORFs and BjSemiSWEET were cloned into the mating-based split ubiquitin Nub vectors pXN22_GW and pXN25_GW and Cub vector pMETYC_GW. Assays were performed as described (CITATION). nYFP and cCFP sequences were fused to the C-terminal sequences of five AtSWEETs and BjSemiSWEET in PXNGW and PXCGW vectors, respectively (CITATION). The fusion proteins were introduced into N. benthamiana leaves by using the Agrobacterium-mediated transient expression method (CITATION). Interactions of the coexpressed proteins were monitored by detection of YFP fluorescence under a confocal microscope (SP5; Leica). All constructs were verified by DNA sequencing. All assays were repeated independently at least three times with comparable results. WT and mutant AtSWEET1 ORFs were cloned into the pDRf1-GFP GW vector (CITATION). The EBY4000 yeast strain was transformed, and three independent colonies from each transformant were cultured in yeast nitrogen base (YNB) media containing 2% maltose. For transient expression of AtSWEET1-GFP and AtSWEET11-GFP fusion proteins, AtSWEET1 and AtSWEET11 ORFs were cloned into pABindGFP destination plasmid (CITATION) followed by transient expression in N. benthamiana leaves using the Agrobacterium-mediated transient expression method (CITATION). GFP fluorescence was detected under a confocal microscope (SP5; Leica).
