!~ABS~! Both mitochondria and chloroplasts contain distinct proteolytic systems for precursor protein processing catalyzed by the mitochondrial and stromal processing peptidases and for the degradation of targeting peptides catalyzed by presequence protease. Here, we have identified and characterized a component of the organellar proteolytic systems in Arabidopsis thaliana, the organellar oligopeptidase, OOP (At5g65620). OOP belongs to the M3A family of peptide-degrading metalloproteases. Using two independent in vivo methods, we show that the protease is dually localized to mitochondria and chloroplasts. Furthermore, we localized the OPP homolog At5g10540 to the cytosol. Analysis of peptide degradation by OOP revealed substrate size restriction from 8 to 23 aa residues. Short mitochondrial targeting peptides (presequence of the ribosomal protein L29 and presequence of 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid deaminase 1) and N- and C-terminal fragments derived from the presequence of the ATPase beta subunit ranging in size from 11 to 20 aa could be degraded. MS analysis showed that OOP does not exhibit a strict cleavage pattern but shows a weak preference for hydrophobic residues (F/L) at the P1 position. The crystal structures of OOP, at 1.8–1.9 Å, exhibit an ellipsoidal shape consisting of two major domains enclosing the catalytic cavity of 3,000 Å3. The structural and biochemical data suggest that the protein undergoes conformational changes to allow peptide binding and proteolysis. Our results demonstrate the complementary role of OOP in targeting-peptide degradation in mitochondria and chloroplasts.
!~RES~! The M3A subfamily of metallopeptidases is widespread in prokaryotes and eukaryotes and includes the human neurolysin, the E. coli OpdA, and the yeast PRD1. This subfamily contains peptidases with two different functions. One group consists of oligopeptidases responsible for peptide degradation (OpdA and PRD1). The second group includes processing peptidases (Oct1) specialized in the removal of octapeptides from the N termini of MPP-processed precursor proteins. A survey of the Arabidopsis genome shows that it contains four genes encoding putative proteases of the M3A subfamily (FIG-REF). None of these proteins has been characterized experimentally, but all possess a peptidase M3 domain carrying the zinc-binding motif HEXXH (where X is an uncharged residue) (Fig. S1A). To select putative organellar peptidases involved in peptide degradation, we analyzed their similarity to the currently known M3A-degrading peptidases and their possible intracellular localization. Based on these features, we selected two of the four A. thaliana M3A peptidases, At5g65620 and At5g10540, because both cluster with the degrading peptidases on the phylogenetic tree (FIG-REF). Both were identified in chloroplasts using a high-throughput proteomic approach (CITATION, CITATION), although only At5g65620 is predicted to possess a transit peptide (TargetP) directing it to chloroplasts. We excluded two other A. thaliana M3A peptidases from this study. Peptidase At5g51540 clusters along with Oct1 orthologs identified in yeast and mammals (FIG-REF) and is likely to be involved in processing, not in peptide degradation, whereas peptidase At1g67690 does not show a discernible mitochondrial or chloroplastic targeting sequence. [[FIGURE]] We investigated the subcellular localization of At5g65620 and At5g10540 using two independent in vivo approaches, transient expression in Arabidopsis cell suspensions and immunodetection. Detection in Arabidopsis suspension cells showed dual localization in mitochondria and chloroplasts for GFP fused with full-length At5g65620 (FIG-REF) and a cytosolic localization for GFP fused with full-length At5g10540 (FIG-REF). Because of the high sequence identity between At5g65620 and At5g10540 and thus the difficulty of producing specific antibodies, we generated A. thaliana lines expressing C-terminal FLAG-tagged full-length variants of At5g65620 and At5g10540. Detection of the FLAG tag in mitochondria, chloroplasts, and cytosol isolated from plants expressing tagged At5g65620 and At5g10540, respectively, confirmed the dual localization of At5g65620 in mitochondria and chloroplasts (FIG-REF) and the cytosolic localization of At5g10540 (FIG-REF). Based on these results, we termed At5g65620 the organellar oligopeptidase (OOP) and At5g10540 the cytosolic oligopeptidase (CyOP). Further subfractionation of mitochondria and chloroplasts showed that OOP is a soluble protein, localized in the matrix and stroma, respectively (FIG-REF), having the same intracellular localization as the dual-localized presequence protease, AtPreP (FIG-REF (CITATION, CITATION). According to TargetP (FIG-REF and Fig. S1B), the precursor of OOP contains a transit peptide of 82 aa that is putatively cleaved off after import. To verify this result, we compared the in-gel mobility of the OOP precursor (pre-OOP) with that of an OOP variant lacking first 82 amino acids overexpressed in bacteria (OOPΔ1−82) and the native mature OOP forms in mitochondria and chloroplasts (FIG-REF). The mature OOP forms detected in the isolated organelles migrate at a level similar to that of the overexpressed OOPΔ1−82 variant and at a lower level than the precursor form, confirming that the precursor of OOP undergoes processing. [[FIGURE]] Previous reports suggested that M3A peptidases may be involved in the degradation of targeting peptides and even may cooperate with M16C peptidases (as Cym1 or PreP) in this function (CITATION). We approached this idea by testing the activity of the mitochondria- and chloroplast-resident OOP against the Nicotiana plumbaginifolia pF1β, a well-characterized substrate of AtPreP. For activity assays we used the recombinant OOPΔ1−82 variant produced in bacteria (hereafter referred to as OOP). Full-length pF1β 2-54 (53 aa) is not degraded by OOP, but it was degraded completely by the control, AtPreP1 (FIG-REF and Fig. S2A). However, OOP was able to degrade both N- and C-terminal fragments derived from pF1β (12 and 11 aa, respectively) (FIG-REF and Fig. S2A). The degradation of these fragments was analyzed by SDS/PAGE and confirmed by MS (FIG-REF, Inset, Table 1, and Dataset S1). As a control for these experiments, we used a catalytically inactive OOP variant in which glutamine replaces the glutamate residue in the Zn-binding site (OOPE572Q) (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] Degradation of peptide substrates by OOP and PreP1 analyzed by MS [[FIGURE]] Further analysis using other peptides of various sources showed that OOP can degrade several substrates and displays a substrate size restriction (Table 1 and Fig. S2B). The shortest peptides used in this study and degraded by OOP were two octapeptides (Table 1) generated by the yeast processing peptidase Oct1 from yeast Mdh1 and Sdh1 (CITATION), and the longest one was the 23-aa presequence of the yeast Cox4 preprotein (Table 1 and Fig. S2B). OOP was unable to degrade a folded protein (insulin) or larger peptides including amyloid-β 1-28 and 1-40 and insulin-β chain (Fig. S2B), whereas AtPreP1 can degrade all these peptides except the short octapeptides (Table 1 and Fig. S2B). Taken together, the set of experiments shown in FIG-REF, Table 1, and Fig. S2 suggest that OOP can degrade peptide fragments within the range of 8–23 aa. Around 10% of the presequences identified in plants are shorter than or equal to 23 aa (6 of 62 for A. thaliana and 8 of 52 for Oryza sativa) (CITATION) and thus might be potential natural substrates of OOP, considering solely the length criterion. On the other hand, the shortest identified transit peptide is 26 aa long (CITATION) and thus is potentially too long to be degraded by OOP. As a proof of principle, we selected two of the A. thaliana presequences within this size limit for degradation studies—the presequence of the ribosomal protein L29 (At1g07830; pL29; 19 aa) and the presequence of the 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid deaminase 1 (At1g48420; pACD1; 20 aa)—and the 26-aa transit peptide of acetyl-CoA synthetase (At5g36880; tpACS). Both presequences, pL29 and pACD1, were degraded upon incubation with purified OOP (FIG-REF and Table 1) and also upon incubation with AtPreP1 (Table 1). In contrast, OOP could not degrade the full-length tpACS transit peptide but only its fragments of 11 aa and 19 aa (FIG-REF and Table 1). Taken together, all the data obtained from the MS analysis of the OOP cleavage products (13 peptide substrates) make it clear that OOP does not exhibit a strict cleavage pattern (Table 1). Although the reduced number of different substrates limits the certainty of our conclusions, the results indicate that OOP has a preference for hydrophobic residues (F/L) at the P1 position (in about 50% of the cleavages detected). Interestingly, in a similar set of substrates, PreP1 showed a preference for positively charged residues (K/R) at the P1 position (Table 1). The biochemical analysis of peptide cleavage by OOP revealed a substrate length restriction and a relative promiscuity in the peptide cleavage sites. For a deeper insight into the molecular determinants of peptide degradation by OOP, we solved the crystal structure of OOP. Crystals of wild-type and the inactive variant OOPE572Q were obtained. The crystals belonged to the space group P212121, contained one molecule per asymmetric unit, and diffracted to 1.8–1.9 Å (Table S1). OOP exhibits an overall ellipsoidal shape and consists of two major domains (domain I from residues 91–235 and domain II from residues 236–781) which enclose the catalytic cavity (FIG-REF). The OOP homolog E. coli dipeptidyl carboxypeptidase has been crystallized in a closed conformation similar to the OOP structure presented here (rmsd 1.7 Å) (CITATION). In contrast to the closed conformation of OOP, the mammalian homologs neurolysin and thimet oligopeptidase (TOP) were crystallized in open conformations (CITATION, CITATION). The catalytic site of OOP is buried within a long internal cavity (FIG-REF). The overall fold of OOP is the same as neurolysin (665 equivalent Cα atoms, rmsd of 3.0 Å) and TOP (654 equivalent Cα atoms, rmsd of 3.6 Å). The rmsd values are relatively large because OOP is in a closed conformation, whereas the other two are in an open conformation (FIG-REF shows a comparison between OOP and neurolysin). The total volume of the internal cavity in OOP is ∼3,000 Å3, which corresponds to the volume of a peptide with about 21 aa (CITATION). This value agrees well with maximum peptide length that OOP can cleave (23 aa), as shown by our activity measurements (compare with Table 1). The internal cavity of OOP has two narrow openings to the outside solvent, but it is very unlikely that a peptide could enter the protein via these narrow openings. Supporting this idea is the fact that substitutions closing the openings to the outside (through the introduction of bulky tryptophan side chains) have little effect on OOP activity (Fig. S3). Thus it is conceivable that substrate binding to OOP requires the opening of the structure between domains I and II, resembling the deep crevice observed in the neurolysin structure. The structural superposition shown in FIG-REF between OOP (closed conformation) and neurolysin (open conformation) highlights the conformational flexibility needed to allow the peptide substrate access to the active site. OOP contains the active site sequence motif HEXXH, characteristic for the whole MA clan of zinc metallopeptidases (CITATION). The two histidines in this motif, H571 and H575, coordinate the Zn ion, with the more C-terminal residue E601 acting as the third zinc ligand (FIG-REF). The nature and location of the ion was confirmed via anomalous data collected at the zinc edge on the OOPE572Q structure. The glutamate residue E572 is proposed to be important in coordinating a water molecule taking part in the nucleophilic attack of the scissile bond. In agreement with this notion, replacing this residue by glutamine completely inactivates the enzyme (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). Despite being crystallized in the absence of added substrate, residual electron density became visible within the active site of OOPE572Q during refinement and accounted for a bound peptide. The electron density at the active site allowed the building of a tetrapeptide backbone trace but with no discernible side chains (FIG-REF). This absence of side chains is a consequence of the conformational ensembles of multiple ligands and is typical for a mixture of endogenous peptides, as seen before in other examples of peptide-binding proteins (CITATION). We have crystallized a trapped uncleaved peptide ensemble likely similar to the initial peptide-binding intermediate in the wild-type enzyme. The peptide substrate is buried within the catalytic cavity and bound via hydrogen bonds to five residues in the active site: A520, M522, Q572, H703, and Y709 (FIG-REF). Interactions between the peptide backbone and these residues likely determine the correct positioning of the substrate for catalysis. In support of this idea, substitution of H703 or Y709 for phenylalanine abolishes the activity of the enzyme (FIG-REF). It is noteworthy that the peptide main chain does not seem to be anchored, because no salt bridges are formed to the peptide termini. Also, the weak electron density suggests that the peptide continues into the cavities on both sides of the active site (FIG-REF). The pockets that can accommodate the side chains of the peptide provide both polar and hydrophobic binding surfaces and therefore do not impose strict sequence specificity on the substrate. This lack of strict sequence specificity is in agreement with the observed promiscuity in the cleavage of the tested peptide substrates (Table 1), with only a weak preference for hydrophobic residues at the P1 position. To identify the endogenous peptides, MS analysis of the peptides extracted from OOPE572Q was performed. We detected a mixture of at least 21 different peptides originating from 10 different proteins (FIG-REF and Dataset S2). The peptides range from 8 to 19 residues in length and most probably correspond only to a subset of the peptides bound to OOPE572Q. The sizes are fully consistent with the internal volume of the OOP cavity and the analyzed peptide substrates. The structure of wild-type OOP was virtually identical to that of OOPE572Q (rmsd of 0.3 Å), with the major exception that no substrate was bound in the active site. This lack of a bound substrate was expected because the protein is still active, and any endogenous substrate would have been cleaved already.
!~MM~! A. thaliana plants (Columbia ecotype) were grown in a climate-controlled chamber at 23 °C and 130 μmol⋅m−2⋅s−1 light with a 16-h light/8-h dark photoperiod. In all cases seeds were stratified for 3 d at 4 °C after sowing before transfer to the light. Total protein extract was isolated from A. thaliana leaves as described in ref. CITATION. Mitochondria and chloroplasts were isolated from 14-d-old A. thaliana plants, as described in refs. CITATION and CITATION, respectively. Mitoplasts were obtained by osmotic swelling of the intact mitochondria (CITATION). Chloroplasts were fractionated as described in ref. CITATION. Cytosol fraction was isolated as follows. Fourteen-day-old A. thaliana plants were homogenized in a mortar in a grinding buffer [30 mM Hepes-KOH (pH 7.5), 2 mM EDTA, 300 mM sorbitol, and 1% (wt/vol) PVP 40 (Sigma)]. The homogenate was passed through Miracloth, and the resulting filtrate was centrifuged for 5 min at 2,500 × g. The pellet was discarded, and the supernatant was centrifuged for 20 min at 20,000 × g to pellet the organelles. The supernatant was collected and centrifuged again for 1 h at 60,000 × g. The cytosolic proteins were precipitated using trichloroacetic acid. Biolistic cotransformation of the vectors encoding GFP and RFP fusions was performed on Arabidopsis cell suspensions as previously described (CITATION). For more detailed descriptions, see SI Experimental Procedures. For the analysis of peptide degradation, samples of the different peptides used (1 μg pF1β2-54 and Aβ1-40; 8 μg pF1β4-15 and pF1β43-53; 4 μg of other peptides) were incubated with 0.5 μg of purified OOP or PreP1 for the indicated time frame in degradation buffer [50 mM Hepes-KOH (pH 7.4), with addition of 10 mM MgCl2 for the PreP1 assays] at 30 °C. After incubation the reactions were stopped by the addition of SDS peptide sample buffer [150 mM Tris⋅HCl (pH 7.0), 4% (wt/vol) SDS, 6% (vol/vol) β-mercaptoethanol, 30% (vol/vol) glycerol, 0.05% Coomassie blue G250] and subsequently were loaded on appropriate SDS polyacrylamide gels. In all cases gels were subjected to formaldehyde fixation for 1 h before staining with Coomassie Brilliant Blue (Sigma). The bands were quantified using MultiGauge software, and experiments were performed in duplicate. Amyloid-β 1-28, amyloid-β 1-40, insulin-β, and insulin were purchased from Sigma; pF1β 2-54 was produced as described in ref. CITATION, and the production of pF1β 4-15, pF1β 43-53, pL29, pACD1, tpACS 1-11, and tpACS 1-19 is described in SI Experimental Procedures. The peptides pCox4, Cyt1p 294–309, octMdh1, and octSdh1 were a kind gift from Chris Meisinger (University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany). Syt-II (residues 40–60) was synthesized by JPT Peptide Technologies Gmgh, and the peptides pThrRS 1-19 and tpACS 1-26 were synthesized by GenicBio. In the Substrate V assay, OOP (wild type or variants, 0.02 μg per assay) was mixed with 1 μg substrate V (R&D Systems) in degradation buffer (50 mM Hepes pH 7.4, reaction volume of 100 μL), and the increase in fluorescence (excitation, 327 nm; emission, 395 nm) was recorded immediately in a plate reader (SpectraMax Gemini). Results shown are the average of three independent measurements.
