!~ABS~! Histone deacetylation regulates gene expression during plant stress responses and is therefore an interesting target for epigenetic manipulation of stress sensitivity in plants. Unfortunately, overexpression of the core enzymes (histone deacetylases [HDACs]) has either been ineffective or has caused pleiotropic morphological abnormalities. In yeast and mammals, HDACs operate within multiprotein complexes. Searching for putative components of plant HDAC complexes, we identified a gene with partial homology to a functionally uncharacterized member of the yeast complex, which we called Histone Deacetylation Complex1 (HDC1). HDC1 is encoded by a single-copy gene in the genomes of model plants and crops and therefore presents an attractive target for biotechnology. Here, we present a functional characterization of HDC1 in Arabidopsis thaliana. We show that HDC1 is a ubiquitously expressed nuclear protein that interacts with at least two deacetylases (HDA6 and HDA19), promotes histone deacetylation, and attenuates derepression of genes under water stress. The fast-growing HDC1-overexpressing plants outperformed wild-type plants not only on well-watered soil but also when water supply was reduced. Our findings identify HDC1 as a rate-limiting component of the histone deacetylation machinery and as an attractive tool for increasing germination rate and biomass production of plants.
!~RES~! HDC1 (At5g08450) is a single-copy gene in Arabidopsis. Predicted splice variants only differ in the upstream untranslated region. Unique HDC1 homologs are also present in all other plant species for which genome information is currently available, including important crops, such as maize (Zea mays) and rice (Oryza sativa; Figure 1A). The ∼900-amino-acid-long sequence of the predicted plant HDC1 proteins contains an ∼300-amino-acid-long sequence in the C-terminal half that is highly similar to Rxt3 proteins, which are ubiquitously present in fungi, algae, and protozoa but remain functionally uncharacterized (Figure 1B). Particularly high sequence similarity occurs in a Protein domain family signature (PF08642) labeled as “histone deacetylation Rxt3” (box in Figure 1B). The term derives from biochemical evidence that yeast Rxt3 coelutes with the large Rpd3 complex (CITATION), but the region has no homology to catalytic domains of HDACs. Based on sequence similarity, no obvious function can be assigned to this or any other part of the HDC1 sequence. The more variable extended N-terminal part of HDC1 has no counterpart in non-plant genomes. Sequence extension from Rxt3 to HDC1 occurred between algae and land plants, with mosses showing intermediate length (see sequence alignment in Supplemental Data Set 1 online). [[FIGURE]] The notion of a conserved nonredundant function of HDC1 is supported by ubiquitous expression within the plant. Histochemical analysis of stable Arabidopsis lines expressing β-glucuronidase (GUS) under the control of the HDC1 promoter revealed HDC1 promoter activity in all vegetative tissues, including seed, root, cotyledon, rosette leaf, and flower bud (Figures 2A to 2E). However, GUS was not detected inside anthers and stigmas (Figures 2F), indicating that HDC1 is silenced during reproduction. This is in accordance with a general resetting of chromatin status during reproduction (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Visualization of a green fluorescent protein (GFP)–HDC1 fusion protein in transiently expressing tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) plants and in stable transgenic Arabidopsis plants showed exclusive presence of HDC1 in the nucleus (Figures 2G and 2H) but not in the nucleolus (Figure 2I). To investigate whether HDC1 is a member of HDAC protein complexes in plants, we tested colocalization and direct interaction of HDC1 with known HDACs of Arabidopsis. Coexpression of full-length GFP-HDC1 with red fluorescent protein (RFP)–HDA6 or RFP-HDA19 in epidermal tobacco cells indicated tight colocalization of HDC1 with HDA6 and HDA19 in different locations within the nucleus (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Direct interaction was investigated by bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC). To avoid misinterpretation of background fluorescence, we used a new ratiometric BiFC assay (CITATION) in which N- and C-terminal halves of yellow fluorescent protein (YFP), fused to HDC1 and HDA6/19, respectively, and a full-length RFP are expressed from a single vector (Figure 3A). In RFP-producing cells, a strong YFP signal was recorded for HDA6 and for HDA19, indicating successful BiFC and, hence, interaction of HDC1 with both HDACs. BiFC was also successful when HDA19 was coexpressed with SIN3 previously shown to interact with HDA19 in yeast two-hybrid assays (CITATION). By contrast, no YFP signal was recorded for HDC1 and SIN3, indicating that HDC1 does not interact with all HDAC complex proteins. Normalization of the obtained YFP signal to the RFP signal from the same cell (Figure 3B) provided statistically significant, quantitative evidence for a strong and specific interaction of HDC1 with the two deacetylases in the heterologous system (Figure 3C). [[FIGURE]] In vitro pull-down experiments using glutathione S-transferase (GST)- and His-tagged recombinant proteins further confirmed the ability of HDC1 to physically interact with HDA6 and HDA19 (Figure 4A). Using GST-HDA6 or GST-HDA19 as bait, HDC1 was pulled down in nuclei-enriched protein samples obtained from leaves of mature Arabidopsis plants (Figure 4B). A single band for HDC1 was detected in these assays, indicating that additional modified or truncated forms of HDC1 in the in vitro system (triple band in Figure 4A) were not produced in planta. HDC1 was not recovered in pull-down assays with GST alone. No HDC1 was detected when the same assays were performed with protein extract from a T-DNA insertion knockout line, hdc1-1 (for mutant description, see below). [[FIGURE]] To test whether HDC1 had an influence on histone deacetylation activity in the plant, we probed leaf protein extracts from wild-type and mutant lines with a commercial antibody that recognizes acetylated Lys residues 9 and 14 in histone 3 (anti-H3K9K14ac), a predominant target of HDA6 (CITATION). As shown in Figure 4C, hdc1-1 knockout plants produced a significantly higher H3K9K14ac:H3 signal ratio than wild-type plants, indicating higher levels of the acetylated form of H3 over the deacetylated form. Expression of the genomic sequence of HDC1 under its own promoter in the hdc1-1 background (HDC1c) reverted this phenotype; H3K9K14ac:H3 in the complementation line was similar to the wild type (Figure 4C). We conclude that HDC1 interacts with HDACs and is required for HDAC activity in planta. To investigate physiological functions of HDC1, we generated several homozygous lines from currently available Arabidopsis lines with T-DNA insertions in HDC1 coding sequence or untranslated regions (Salk 043645, Salk150126C, SAIL1263E05, and GABI-Kat054G03, all in Columbia-0 [Col-0] background). Only one of these, hdc1-1, derived from GABI-Kat, with a T-DNA insertion in the first intron, proved to be a true knockout of HDC1 at the transcript and protein level (see Supplemental Figures 2A to 2C online). HDC1 transcript levels in the other T-DNA insertion lines were similar to those in the wild type or even higher (see Supplemental Figures 3A and 3B online). Some partial mRNA but no HDC1 protein (full-length or partial) was detected in hdc1-1 plants (see Supplemental Figure 2C online). HDC1c complementation lines were obtained by expressing genomic HDC1 under its own promoter (646-bp upstream sequence) in hdc1-1 background. We also produced stable homozygous HDC1-overexpressing lines in Col-0 background using either 35S or Ubiquitin-10 promoter (HDC1-OX1 and HDC1-OX2, respectively). Both lines produced ∼30-fold higher HDC1 mRNA levels than the Col-0 wild type (see Supplemental Figure 2D online). It was previously reported that hda6 and hda19 mutant lines are hypersensitive to ABA during germination (CITATION; CITATION). Germinating seeds arrest growth and development if they encounter low water potentials in the environment (CITATION). The postimbibition response is mediated by ABA and can be mimicked by external application of ABA. Gibberellin (GA) antagonizes ABA in this response and, hence, seedling growth arrest also occurs if the GA biosynthesis inhibitor paclobutrazol (PAC) is applied (CITATION). To test a function of HDC1 in this process, seeds of Arabidopsis wild-type, hdc1-1, and HDC1-OX lines were imbibed to break dormancy and subsequently plated out on agar plates containing different concentrations of sodium chloride (NaCl), mannitol, ABA, or PAC. A cumulative germination rate (encompassing all postimbibition stages of seedling development) was scored as the number of seedlings that had developed cotyledons after 6 d. In control conditions, all lines germinated similarly well (close to 100%), and germinated seedlings were similar in size and shape (Figure 5; see Supplemental Figure 4A online). All lines showed a decrease in germination rates with increasing concentrations of NaCl, mannitol, ABA, or PAC; however, compared with the wild type, hdc1-1 was significantly more sensitive, whereas the OX lines were significantly less sensitive to the treatments. Hyposensitivity was observed in both OX lines, independent of promoter or insertion site. Homozygous lines derived from Salk150126C and SAIL1263E05 displayed similar or slightly decreased ABA sensitivity during germination in accordance with a moderate increase of HDC1 mRNA in these lines (see Supplemental Figure 3C online). We conclude that the expression level of HDC1 quantitatively determines the set point of ABA sensitivity in germinating seeds. [[FIGURE]] The fact that HDC1 overexpression had a desensitizing effect on ABA-dependent germination was interesting because HDA6 overexpression had not been proven to produce physiological phenotypes. We therefore assessed ABA sensitivity in seedlings of an HDA6-overexpressing line previously generated for biochemical studies (CITATION). 35S:HDA6 seedlings showed similar ABA sensitivity as wild-type plants, and they were considerably more sensitive to ABA than HDC1-OX seedlings despite a similar increase in transcript level (see Supplemental Figures 5A and 5B online). To test whether histone deacetylation was required for ABA dependence of seed germination and for the effect of HDC1 on this process, we subjected germinating seeds to the HDAC inhibitor trichostatin A (TSA). Unlike higher TSA concentrations tested before (CITATION), the low micromolar concentrations of TSA applied in our experiments had no effect on seed germination in the absence of ABA (Figure 6). Nevertheless, TSA increased the ABA sensitivity of wild-type plants in a dose-dependent manner, with 0.3 μM producing a significant effect at 0.2 μM ABA and 3 μM TSA producing a significant effect at 0.4 μM ABA. Furthermore, addition of TSA increased ABA sensitivity of the HDC1-overexpressing lines. Thus, ABA sensitivity of germinating seeds and desensitization of seedlings toward ABA by HDC1 overexpression depend on the catalytic activity of HDACs. [[FIGURE]] Several developmental phenotypes have been reported for HDAC mutants. For example, hda6 hda19 double mutants display embryonic structures on mature leaves and do not repress embryo-specific transcription factors, such as LEAFY COTYLEDON1 (LEC1), FUSCA3 (FUS3), and ABA INSENSITIVE3 (ABI3) after germination (CITATION). By contrast, leaves of hdc1-1 plants were normal, and LEC1 and FUS3 were effectively repressed already 2 d after germination (DAG; see Supplemental Figure 4B online). ABI3 transcript was still present at 2 DAG, with hdc1-1 plants expressing higher levels and HDC1-OX plants expressing lower levels than wild-type plants, but was reduced to very low levels in all lines by 6 DAG. We conclude that in control conditions, HDC1 is not required for successful progression of seedlings into the vegetative growth phase. During vegetative growth, leaf development was normal in hdc1-1 and HDC1-OX plants. New leaves appeared at a similar rate in all lines (Figure 7A). When grown in long-day conditions, wild-type and HDC1-OX plants started to bolt within 4 weeks, whereas hdc1-1 plants continued to produce rosette leaves and flowered ∼2 weeks later (Figure 7B) at considerably higher rosette leaf number (Figure 7C). The flowering phenotype was reflected in a high transcript level of the flowering inhibitor FLC in hdc1-1 knockout plants on day 28 compared with low levels in the wild-type and HDC1-OX plants (Figure 7D). It can be concluded that HDC1 does not affect vegetative development but is required for the transition to the reproductive stage. [[FIGURE]] Despite normal vegetative development, HDC1 mutant lines showed a clear growth phenotype (Figure 8). Differences in root length and leaf size started to appear within 2 weeks after germination (see Supplemental Figure 6 online) and led to significant differences of shoot and root weights in older plants, particularly when the vegetative growth phase was extended by applying short-day conditions (Figure 8). With a similar number of leaves, 4-week-old HDC1-OX plants had produced 20% more and hdc1-1 plants had produced 10% less fresh weight than wild-type plants, and the differences increased to 50% (more or less weight) after 5 weeks (Figure 8A). All lines had a similar relative water content of 92% ± 1%; hence, differences in fresh weight were primarily caused by differences in dry matter. Both HDC1-overexpressing lines showed enhanced growth, with OX2 (Ubi10) being consistently slightly bigger than OX1 (35S) plants. A positive correlation between HDC1 expression level and growth was further confirmed in hdc1-1:HDC1 complementation lines. Plant sizes and weights reflected the HDC1 protein levels in the lines (Figure 8B). [[FIGURE]] Arabidopsis HDAC mutants have not been shown to have obvious growth phenotypes. We therefore reassessed growth of hda6 knockdown (axe1-5) plants in our growth conditions. Indeed, axe1-5 plants produced less fresh and dry weight than the corresponding wild-type plants (Col-0 DR5) despite slightly higher leaf number (see Supplemental Figure 7 online). By contrast, HDA6-overexpressing plants had similar weights as wild-type plants (see Supplemental Figure 5C online) and therefore did not phenocopy HDC1-overexpressing lines. To examine a function of HDC1 in transcriptional regulation, we treated 4-week-old hydroponically grown wild-type and mutant plants with 150 mM NaCl for 24 h and determined transcript levels of several known salt stress–responsive genes, including ABA biosynthesis genes ABA DEFICIENT1 (ABA1) and ABA DEFICIENT3 (ABA3), transcription factors RESISTANT TO DESSICATION29A/B (RD29A/B), dehydrin RESPONSIVE TO ABA18, and ABI FIVE BINDING PROTEIN3 (AFP3) (CITATION). We found that after the salt treatment, transcript levels showed a consistent profile across the lines with higher levels in hdc1-1 and/or lower levels in HDC1-OX plants than in wild-type plants (Figure 9). In control conditions, transcript levels of the genes were similarly low in all lines apart from ABA1 transcript, which was increased in hdc1-1. Analysis of shoot ABA levels confirmed that ABA biosynthesis was efficiently induced by salt in all lines, but attained levels were slightly higher/lower in hdc1-1/OX lines (see Supplemental Figure 8 online). ABA receptor PYR1-LIKE4 (PYL4; CITATION) and drought-repressed protein protease-like DROUGHT-REPRESSED4 (DR4) are examples of genes that are downregulated by osmotic stress (CITATION). We found that both genes were efficiently repressed by salt stress in all lines, but in control conditions, hdc1-1 and HDC-OX plants produced higher and lower transcript levels than the wild type, respectively. [[FIGURE]] To assess whether and which of the observed transcriptional changes were a consequence of altered histone acetylation status, we performed anti-H3K9K14ac chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP)–quantitative PCR (qPCR) on regions encompassing the start codons of the above genes. For ABA1, RD29B, PYL4, and DR4, we recovered less ChIP-DNA from HDC1-OX plants and more from ChIP-DNA hdc1-1 plants than from wild-type plants (Figure 10). By contrast, no change was found for ABA3 (see Supplemental Figure 9 online), suggesting that the transcriptional changes in this gene are the result of positive feedback regulation through ABA (CITATION). The acetylation status of other genes remains to be tested. The results obtained here identify ABA1, RD29B, PYL4, and DR4 as potentially direct targets of HDC1-facilitated histone deacetylation, and they provide a mechanistic explanation for the altered transcriptional responses of these genes in the mutants. [[FIGURE]] The combination of enhanced growth with lower expression of stress-inducible genes in HDC1-OX lines raised our curiosity about the net outcome of these potentially counterproductive features on plant performance under water or salt stress. We therefore subjected HDC1 mutant lines and wild-type plants to a controlled water-limiting regime in short-day conditions that started on day 14 and imposed a continuous relative soil water content of ∼50% of the control condition for the remainder of the experiment (Figure 11A). Differences in growth between the lines were apparent in larger (HDC1-OX) and smaller (hdc1-1) rosette diameters of younger plants, recorded on days 14 and 28. In older plants, rosette diameters differed less due to maximal extension of the outer leaves, but significant differences of total shoot fresh and dry weights were found when the plants were harvested on day 40 (before flowering). In well-watered conditions, shoot fresh weights were ∼20% higher in HDC1-OX plants and ∼40% lower in hdc1-1 plants than in wild-type plants. Limited water supply slowed the growth of all lines (by ∼30% on day 28 and ∼80% on day 40; see insets with absolute wild-type data in Figure 11A), yet HDC1-OX plants still produced significantly higher (∼20%) biomass than wild-type plants, and hdc1-1 knockout plants were still significantly smaller than wild-type plants (although the difference in fresh weight had narrowed to ∼10%; Figure 11A). [[FIGURE]] In a second experiment, hydroponically grown plants were subjected for 6 d to salt stress (Figure 11B). Addition of 80 mM NaCl is a physiologically relevant sublethal salt stress dose for moderately salt-tolerant plants such as Arabidopsis (CITATION) and did not cause severe chlorosis or desiccation over the course of this experiment (see photos in Figure 11B). However, the treatment reduced shoot water content (from 92% ± 1% to 86% ± 1% after 6 d) and slowed growth in all lines (compared with data for control plants in Figure 8). Importantly, salt-stressed HDC1-OX continued to produce significantly more root and shoot biomass than the wild type and hdc1-1 plants remained smaller. Thus, under moderate salt stress, the growth advantage of HDC1 overexpression is maintained despite lower responsiveness of salt-inducible genes.
!~MM~! All transgenic lines for HDC1 were generated in our laboratory in Arabidopsis thaliana Col-0 background. The stable homozygous knockout line hdc1-1 was obtained from progeny of GABI-Kat 054G03. Stable, homozygous complementation lines were identified from the progeny of hdc1-1 plants transformed with genomic HDC1, including the native promoter (see cloning procedures). Stable, homozygous HDC1-overexpressing lines were generated from the progeny of wild-type Col-0 plants transformed with HDC1 under the control of 35S or Ubiquitin-10 promoters (see cloning procedures). Seeds for 35S:HDA6 (CITATION) and axe1-5 (CITATION) were kindly provided by Yuehui He and Ortrun Mittelsten Scheid, respectively. All experiments were performed in controlled growth rooms at a temperature of 20 to 22°C and a light intensity of 120 to 150 µmol PAR. Plants were grown either in long days (16-h light) or in short days (10-h light) as indicated in text and figure legends. Seeds of Arabidopsis wild-type and transgenic lines were sterilized, stratified, and germinated on soil or on agar plates. Agar plates contained half-strength Murashige and Skoog media with 1% Suc and 0.8% agar at pH 5.7. For germination assays, media were supplemented with NaCl, ABA (Sigma-Aldrich), PAC (Fluka), or TSA (Sigma-Aldrich) at the concentrations given in the figures. Germination rate was scored on day 6 after sowing by counting seedlings that had developed green cotyledons. Experiments with adult plants were performed on soil or in hydroponic culture. For the latter, seeds were germinated on agar plates and 2- to 3-week-old seedlings were placed in perforated lids of black 0.7-liter plastic containers. The growth medium consisted of a minimal sufficient nutrient medium (CITATION). For salt treatment, NaCl powder was stirred directly into the growth container to obtain the desired concentration (as stated in the figures). Control media were stirred without adding NaCl. For controlled drought experiments, plants were grown on soil in pots according to a randomized design. Using previously reported methodology (CITATION; CITATION), controlled watering was used to impose moderate water stress. After 14 d of plant growth in well-watered soil, watering was reduced so that the relative soil water content of the stressed plants was maintained at 50% of the normal watering regime. Control plants were watered normally. BLASTp searches were performed with the predicted amino acid sequence of HDC1 against the database of nonredundant protein sequences at the National Center for Biotechnology Information using default parameters (matrix BLOSUM62, existence 11, and extension 1). Representative sequences from different kingdoms (listed in Supplemental Data Set 1 online) were subsequently aligned using the COBALT tool (CITATION) with default parameters (gap penalties −11/ −1 and end-gap penalties −5/−1 for opening/extension). The extracted cluster dendrogram (COBALT tree) reflects the overall similarity between the aligned sequences (note that this is not a phylogenetic tree). An additional sequence alignment was performed with the full-length sequence of the yeast Rxt3 protein and the corresponding parts in the Arabidopsis and Brachypodium distachyon HDC1 proteins. Entry clones with full-length HDC1, HDA6, HDA19, and SIN3 with or without stop codon were generated by PCR amplification using primers that contained attB1and attB2 sites or attB3 and attB4 as 5′ modifications. Gel-purified PCR products were introduced into pDONR207/221 (Life Technologies) using BP-clonase II according to the manufacturer’s instructions and transferred to destination vectors by recombination using LR-clonase II (Life Technologies). The reaction product was used to transform Top10 bacterial cells. Antibiotic marker-resistant colonies were isolated and verified by restriction digest analysis and sequencing. The following plasmids were generated and used in this study: 35S:HDA6/HDA19-RFP in pB7RWG2, HDC1 (646 bp upstream) promoter in pMDC163, HDC1 genomic DNA (including 646-bp upstream sequence) in pMDC123, 2X35S:HDC1 in pMDC032 (CITATION), Ubi10:HDC1 in pUB-Dest, 35S:GFP-HDC1 in pH7WGF2 (CITATION), Ubi10:GFP-HDC1 pUBN-GFPDest (CITATION), 35S:nYFP-HDC1/cYFP-HDA6/HDA19/SIN3 in pBiFCt-2in1-NN, and 35S:nYFP-SIN3/cYFP-HDA19 in pBiFCt-2in1-NN (CITATION). HDC1 antibody was raised in rabbit (Agrisera), using a synthetic peptide matching amino acids 341 to 356 in the HDC1 sequence, and affinity purified. An extra Cys was added to the N terminus to improve binding capacity. H3K9/K14Ac and H3 antibodies were purchased from Diagenode (pAb-005-044) and Abcam (ab1791). His-tag antibody was obtained from New England Biolabs (No. 2366). Plasmids were inserted by heat shock into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 pMP90 (CITATION). Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of Arabidopsis was performed by the floral dip method (CITATION). Homozygous T2 progenies were used for germination tests. Agrobacterium-mediated transient transformation of Nicotiana tabacum and Nicotiana benthamiana was achieved by leaf infiltration (CITATION). For ratiometric BiFC assays and colocalization studies, each construct was coexpressed with p19 protein of tomato bushy stunt virus, encoding for a suppressor of gene silencing (CITATION). Total genomic DNA was extracted according to CITATION. All PCR reactions were performed with 0.4 units of Taq polymerase (Promega). Total RNA was extracted using hot phenol. cDNA was obtained with the Quantitect reverse transcription kit (Qiagen) following the manufacturer’s procedure. Quantitative RT-PCR was performed on an MX3000 sequence detection system (Agilent) with Brilliant III UltraFast SYBR QPCR Master Mix (Agilent). Primer sequences are provided in Supplemental Table 1 online. Reactions were performed in four technical replicates on three biological replicates. Chromatin extraction and ChIP were performed using published protocols (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Tissue samples were incubated in 1% (w/v) formaldehyde for 15 min under vacuum. To stop cross-linking, 125 mM Gly was added, and tissues were rinsed, blotted dry, and frozen. Chromatin extracts were incubated with antibody against H3K9/K14Ac (Diagenode pAb-005-044) following the manufacturer’s instructions. Immunoprecipitated chromatin-DNA (IP-DNA) and input chromatin-DNA were reverse cross-linked, and residual protein was removed by proteinase K treatment. DNA was extracted with phenol and chloroform and ethanol precipitated. DNA was resuspended and purified by MinElute Reaction Cleanup kit (Qiagen). Before proceeding to ChIP-qPCR, DNA samples were amplified using GenomePlex Complete Whole Genome Amplification (WGA2; Sigma-Aldrich) following the manufacturer’s protocol. As a quality control for successful ChIP, existence or absence of sequences previously found to be associated (positive control) or not (negative control) with H3K9K14Ac (CITATION; CITATION) in the ChIP samples was confirmed by PCR. Supplemental Table 1 online lists primer pairs and positions of the amplified regions for Actin2 (positive control), AT1G37110 (negative control), and the tested genes. Nuclei-enriched protein extracts were prepared according to a published protocol (CITATION). The chromatin was extracted twice with 0.4 M H2SO4 and proteins precipitated with 20% trichloroacetic acid. All buffers were supplemented with 100 mM PMSF and proteinase inhibitors (Complete Mini; Roche). Samples were boiled and loaded onto SDS-PAGE gels. After transfer to polyvinylidene difluoride membrane (IPVH00010; Millipore), Ponceau S staining (P3504; Sigma-Aldrich) was performed. HDC1 antibody was incubated overnight in a dilution of 1:4000. Secondary rabbit antibody conjugated with horseradish peroxidase (Roche) was incubated with the membrane for at least 1 h. Proteins were detected using the ECL+ system (RPN2132; Amersham). GST- or His-tagged proteins were expressed in Escherichia coli BL21 cells. Following induction with 1 mM isopropyl β-D-1-thiogalactopyranoside, cells were harvested and sonicated in lysis buffer. The soluble HDC1-His, GST-HDA6, and GST-HDA19 proteins were affinity-purified using the nickel- nitrilotriacetic acid (Sigma-Aldrich) and Glutathione-Sepharose resin (GE Healthcare) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. For pull-down assays, GST-tagged proteins were bound to Glutathione-Sepharose resin and applied to a microcolumn. Recombinant HDC1-His or nuclei-enriched plant lysates (CITATION) were combined with 1× protein inhibitor (Complete Mini, 11836153001; Roche) in Tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane-NaCl buffer. Samples were incubated overnight on ice. After several washes, pulled-down protein was eluted in 1× Laemmli buffer. Plant tissues from independent primary transformants expressing GUS under control of the HDC1 promoter were infiltrated in a solution containing 2 mM 5-Bromo-4-chloro-1H-indol-3-yl β-D-glucopyranosiduronic acid. The samples were incubated overnight at 37°C, followed by ethanol washes to remove excess dye. Photos were taken on a stereomicroscope (MSA 166305; Wild Heerbrugg). Fluorescence in tobacco epidermal cells was assessed 2 d after infiltration using a CLSM-510-META-UV confocal microscope (Zeiss). For single protein localization, GFP fluorescence was excited at 488 nm with light from an argon laser and collected after passage through an NFT545 dichroic mirror with a 505-nm long-pass filter. For colocalization experiments, GFP fluorescence was collected with a 505- to 530-nm band-pass filter. RFP fluorescence was excited at 543 nm with light from a helium neon laser and was collected after passage through an NFT545 dichroic mirror and a 560- to 615-nm band-pass filter. YFP fluorescence was excited at 514 nm with light from an argon laser and was collected using lambda mode between 520 and 550 nm. Colocalization plane and line scans were evaluated using Zeiss LSM 510 AIM software (v3.2). ABA in methanol extracts from dried leaf sample was quantified by liquid chromatography–mass spectrometry (CITATION) at the University of Exeter Mass Spectrometry Facility (Exeter, UK) using 1200 series HPLC (Agilent Technologies; 3.5 µm, 2.1 × 150-mm Eclipse Plus C18 column) and a 6410B enhanced sensitivity triple quadruple mass spectrometer (Agilent Technologies). [2H6] (+)-cis,trans-ABA (Chemlm) was included as a standard. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL libraries and in The Arabidopsis Information Resource under the following accession numbers: ABA1, AT5G67030; ABA3, AT1G16540; ABI3, AT3G24650; AFP3, AT3G29575; DR4, AT1G73330; FLC, AT5G10140; FUS3, AT3G26790; HDC1, AT5G08450; HDA6, AT5G63110; HDA19, AT4G38130; LEC1, AT1G21970; PYL4, AT2G38310; RESPONSIVE TO ABA18, AT5G66400; RESPONSIVE TO DESSICATION29, AAT1G16540; RD29B, AT5G52300; and SIN3 (also called SIN3-LIKE3), AT1G24190. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Colocalization of HDC1 with HDA6 and HDA19 within Nuclei of Transiently Expressing Tobacco Epidermis Cells. Supplemental Figure 2. Confirmation of hdc1-1 Knockout and HDC1-Overexpressing Lines. Supplemental Figure 3. Salk150126 and Sail1263E05 Are Not hdc1 Knockouts. Supplemental Figure 4. Without ABA, HDC1 Does Not Alter Germination or Progression of Seedlings to Vegetative Stage. Supplemental Figure 5. HDA6 Overexpression Does Not Affect Germination or Growth. Supplemental Figure 6. Root and Leaf Growth Phenotypes in Young Plants. Supplemental Figure 7. HDA6 Knockdown Affects Plant Growth without Delaying Leaf Development. Supplemental Figure 8. HDC1 Has a Small Effect on ABA Content after Salt Treatment. Supplemental Figure 9. HDC1 Alters H3K9K14 Acetylation Levels in ABA1 but Not ABA3. Supplemental Figure 10. Scenarios for the Effects of HDC1 on ABA-Dependent Gene Expression. Supplemental Figure 11. Effects of HDC1 Expression on Stress Sensitivity during Vegetative Growth. Supplemental Table 1. Primers for Genotyping gDNA. Supplemental Data Set 1. Alignment of HDC1 and Rxt3 Sequences from Different Organisms.
