!~ABS~! Actin filaments are often arranged into higher-order structures, such as the longitudinal actin cables that generate the reverse fountain cytoplasmic streaming pattern present in pollen tubes. While several actin binding proteins have been implicated in the generation of these cables, the mechanisms that regulate their dynamic turnover remain largely unknown. Here, we show that Arabidopsis thaliana ACTIN-DEPOLYMERIZING FACTOR7 (ADF7) is required for turnover of longitudinal actin cables. In vitro biochemical analyses revealed that ADF7 is a typical ADF that prefers ADP-G-actin over ATP-G-actin. ADF7 inhibits nucleotide exchange on actin and severs filaments, but its filament severing and depolymerizing activities are less potent than those of the vegetative ADF1. ADF7 primarily decorates longitudinal actin cables in the shanks of pollen tubes. Consistent with this localization pattern, the severing frequency and depolymerization rate of filaments significantly decreased, while their maximum lifetime significantly increased, in adf7 pollen tube shanks. Furthermore, an ADF7–enhanced green fluorescent protein fusion with defective severing activity but normal G-actin binding activity could not complement adf7, providing compelling evidence that the severing activity of ADF7 is vital for its in vivo functions. These observations suggest that ADF7 evolved to promote turnover of longitudinal actin cables by severing actin filaments in pollen tubes.
!~RES~! To dissect the in vivo functions of ADF7, a T-DNA insertion line (Salk_024576; adf7) was analyzed (Figure 1A). No ADF7 transcript was detected in adf7 plants (Figure 1B), suggesting that the allele is a knockout. Pollen germination and tube elongation were initially assayed to determine the effects of loss of ADF7. Although pollen germination was not affected in adf7 (see Supplemental Figure 1 online), the pollen tube elongation rate was significantly decreased in adf7 compared with that of the wild-type Columbia-0 (Col-0) line (Figure 1C). Pollen tube elongation was fully rescued in the gADF7;adf7 line (Figure 1D), suggesting that this phenotype is indeed caused by loss of ADF7. Thus, these data suggest that loss of ADF7 has no overt effect on pollen germination but inhibits tube elongation. [[FIGURE]] We next sought to determine whether loss of ADF7 affects the organization and dynamics of the actin cytoskeleton in the pollen tube. Pollen tubes derived from wild-type and adf7 plants were subjected to F-actin staining with Alexa-488 phalloidin. No overt defects in actin organization were detected in adf7 pollen tubes (Figure 1Eb) compared with wild-type pollen tubes (Figure 1Ea). However, we did note that the fluorescence associated with F-actin staining was brighter in adf7 pollen tubes (Figure 1Ed) compared with wild-type pollen tubes (Figure 1Ec). To quantitatively analyze this phenotype, we focused on the shank region and subapical region because the F-actin staining in shank region was quite uniform in both wild-type and adf7 pollen tubes (Figure 1E) and because ADF was implicated in regulating the construction of actin structures in subapical regions (CITATION; CITATION). Analysis of the distribution of fluorescence pixel intensities revealed that larger intensity values were more frequent in adf7 pollen tubes compared with wild-type pollen tubes (Figure 1F). Consequently, the average fluorescence pixel intensity was significantly increased in the shanks and subapexes of adf7 pollen tubes compared with that of wild-type pollen tubes (Figure 1G). Since phalloidin specifically binds to F-actin (CITATION), fluorescence intensity is positively correlated with the amount of F-actin. Thus, the data suggest that loss of ADF7 increases the amount of F-actin. Furthermore, measurement of skewness revealed that these values were significantly increased in adf7 pollen tubes (Figure 1H), along with the measurement showed that the average width of filamentous structures increased in adf7 pollen tubes (Figure 1I), suggesting that the extent of filament bundling was increased in adf7 pollen tubes. However, no overt differences were observed in the organization or amount of F-actin in pollen grains from adf7 plants compared with wild-type plants (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). Thus, these results suggest that ADF7 regulates pollen tube growth by promoting disassembly of actin filaments. We next examined whether the organization and dynamics of actin filaments were differentially affected by actin-targeted drugs in adf7 pollen. We approached this question by analyzing the effects of the actin monomer sequestering agent latrunculin B (LatB) (CITATION; CITATION) on pollen germination and tube growth. Results from this analysis revealed that germination of adf7 pollen was resistant to treatment with 3 nM LatB compared with both wild-type and gADF7;adf7 pollen (Figure 2A; see Supplemental Figure 3 online). Further analysis of a series of LatB concentrations further confirmed that the germination of adf7 pollen was resistant to LatB (Figure 2B). This phenotype was fully reversed in gADF7;adf7 plants (Figure 2B). Because 3 nM LatB was previously shown to result in half-maximum growth inhibition of wild-type Arabidopsis pollen tubes (CITATION) and was associated with LatB resistance in adf7 plants, two LatB concentrations (3 and 10 nM) were selected for further analysis of the effects of LatB on adf7 pollen tube elongation. The average pollen tube elongation rates for wild-type (202.1 ± 8.5 µm/h; n = 3; mean ± se) and adf7 (159.6 ± 6.2 µm/h; n = 3) plants were normalized to 100%. Addition of 3 and 10 nM LatB to standard germination medium (GM) reduced pollen tube elongation rates to 41.4% ± 3.7% (n = 3) and 25.7% ± 1.5% (n = 3) for wild-type pollen tubes and 90.7% ± 1.7% (n = 3) and 59.7% ± 7.3% (n = 3) for adf7 pollen tubes, respectively (Figure 2C). Thus, these data suggest that loss of ADF7 renders both pollen germination and tube elongation resistant to LatB. [[FIGURE]] We next visualized the effect of LatB on the actin cytoskeleton of the pollen grain, since it has been shown to be a good experimental system for visualization of actin filaments and quantification of F-actin (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Pollen grains were stained with Alexa-488 phalloidin after treatment with 200 nM LatB for 30 min. Actin filaments became fragmented in both wild-type and adf7 pollen grains treated with LatB and were less abundant compared with untreated wild-type and adf7 pollen grains (Figure 2D), consistent with previous reports demonstrating net actin depolymerization induced by LatB (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). However, actin filaments in adf7 pollen grains appeared brighter than those of wild-type pollen grains after LatB treatment (Figure 2D). To assess this difference, the relative amount of F-actin was quantified by measuring the average fluorescence pixel intensity associated with F-actin staining as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). The amount of F-actin in untreated wild-type and adf7 pollen grains was normalized to 100%. The relative amount (mean ± se) of F-actin was determined to be 41.0% ± 5.0% (n = 3) and 80.6% ± 4.2% (n = 3) for LatB treated wild-type and adf7 pollen grains, respectively (Figure 2E). These observations suggest that loss of ADF7 results in stabilization of actin filaments, implicating ADF7 in promotion of actin turnover. To determine the biochemical basis for the function of ADF7, recombinant ADF7 was produced (Figure 3A, lane 1), and its activity was compared with the well-characterized ADF1 protein (Figure 3A, lane 2; CITATION). Although some ADF/cofilins have been shown to bind ADP-G-actin and ATP-G-actin with equal affinity, such as chicken ADF and mouse cofilin-2 (CITATION; CITATION), most ADF/cofilins have been shown to prefer ADP-G-actin over ATP-G-actin (CITATION; CITATION). ADF7 quenched the fluorescence of both 7-chloro-4-nitrobenzo-2-oxa-1,3-diazole (NBD)-ADP-G-actin and NBD-ATP-G-actin, but to a lesser degree than ADF1 (Figures 3B and 3C; see Supplemental Table 1 online). Similar to ADF1, ADF7 preferentially bound ADP-actin (see Supplemental Table 1 online). ADF7 also inhibited nucleotide exchange on ADP-G-actin under physiological conditions, but this activity was less potent than that of ADF1 (Figure 3D). These data suggest that ADF7 is a typical ADF. As expected, it promotes actin depolymerization (Figure 3E; see Supplemental Figure 4A online) and enhances the actin turnover rate (Figure 3F). However, these effects were weaker than those of ADF1. [[FIGURE]] The depolymerizing activity of ADF7 was further confirmed by visualizing its effect on shortening of actin filaments (Figures 3Gb and 3Gc). ADF7 reduced the length of actin filaments in a dose-dependent manner, but to a lesser degree than ADF1 (Figure 3Ge). To distinguish whether the filament shortening effect was a result of monomer dissociation, filament severing, or both, we directly visualized single filaments using time-lapse total internal reflection fluorescence (TIRF) microscopy. In the absence of ADF proteins, few breaks were observed along actin filaments (Figure 3Ha; see Supplemental Movie 1 and Supplemental Movie Legends 1 online). By contrast, the addition of ADF7 resulted in increased filament breakage (Figure 3Hb; see Supplemental Movie 2 online). Both ADF7 and ADF1 severed filaments in a dose-dependent manner, although ADF7 was less effective than ADF1 (Figure 3Hc). We also measured monomer off-rate in the absence or presence of ADF proteins and found that both ADF7 and ADF1 enhanced monomer dissociation from the pointed ends of actin filaments (see Supplemental Figure 4B online). Again, ADF7 was less efficient than ADF1 (see Supplemental Figure 4B online). Thus, these data suggest that ADF7 is a typical ADF but that its activity is weaker than that of ADF1. To determine where ADF7 is localized to the pollen tube, we generated N-terminal, C-terminal, and several intramolecular ADF7-EGFP fusion constructs according to published methods (CITATION; CITATION). Expression of these constructs was driven by the native ADF7 promoter. ADF7 transcript levels were restored in transgenic plants carrying each of the different GFP fusion constructs (see Supplemental Figure 5B online). Among these lines, only gADF7-EGFPV10;adf7 fully rescued the LatB-resistant germination and tube elongation phenotypes (see Supplemental Figures 5C and 5D online), indicating that ADF7-EGFPV10 is functional and faithfully represents the subcellular localization of ADF7 in pollen. ADF7-EGFPV10 decorated actin filaments throughout the pollen grain (Figure 4A). In pollen tubes of different lengths, it primarily decorated actin cables in the shank region (Figures 4B to 4D), and the GFP signal was quite dim in the apical and subapical regions (Figures 4B to 4D). We also examined the subcellular distribution patterns of other ADF7-EGFP fusion proteins, revealing that these proteins did not localize to obvious filamentous structures in either pollen grains or tubes (see Supplemental Figure 5E online). Together, these data suggest that ADF7 decorates longitudinal actin cables in pollen tubes. [[FIGURE]] To explore the mechanism by which ADF7 regulates the dynamics of longitudinal actin cables in the pollen tube, actin filaments were labeled with EGFP-lifeact, which has previously been shown to decorate actin filaments in the pollen tube (CITATION; CITATION). To determine the underlying changes in single actin filaments dynamics, we initially wanted to define the properties for single actin filaments by determining their fluorescence pixel intensities and widths. We found that the fluorescence pixel intensity positively correlates with the width for all measured filaments, and some filamentous structures with smaller intensity values form a population with the intensity peak at 960 (see Supplemental Figure 6 online). The filamentous structures within this population with intensity values below 1200 were assumed to be single filaments and were selected from adf7 and wild-type pollen tubes for further analysis. Several dynamic parameters associated with single filaments were determined to see whether ADF7 contributes to the turnover of single filaments in shanks and subapexes. Filament severing (Figures 5Aa and 5Ba; see Supplemental Movies 3 and 4 online) and depolymerization (Figure 5Ab and 5Bb; see Supplemental Movies 5 and 6 online) events were traced and quantified. Severing frequency was significantly decreased in shanks and subapexes of adf7 pollen tubes compared with that of wild-type pollen tubes (Figure 5C). Additionally, the depolymerization rate was significantly decreased in the shanks of adf7 pollen tubes, whereas no obvious difference was detected in subapexes of adf7 pollen tubes, compared with wild-type pollen tubes (Figure 5C). Consequently, the maximum filament lifetime significantly increased in shanks and subapexes of adf7 pollen tubes, whereas no obvious difference was detected in maximum filament length of adf7 pollen tubes, compared with wild-type pollen tubes (Figure 5C). Additionally, we found that the elongation rate of actin filaments was significantly decreased in the shanks of adf7 pollen tubes, whereas no obvious difference was detected in the subapexes of adf7 pollen tubes compared with wild-type pollen tubes (Figure 5C). At the moment, it is not clear why loss of ADF7 decreased the elongation rate of actin filaments in shanks. Previous results showed that loss of ADF4 has differential effects on actin elongation in the epidermal cells from 5-d-old seedlings and 11- and 13-d-old seedlings (CITATION). Thus, these data suggest that ADF7 promotes actin turnover by severing filaments and promoting monomer dissociation. [[FIGURE]] We next determined whether ADF7 contributes to the bundling and debundling events of actin filaments. We tried to trace the process of actin bundles formation and deformation. As shown in Figure 6A (see Supplemental Movie 7 online), two adjacent actin bundles were zipped together to generate the heavy bundle in wild-type pollen tubes, which was supported by the measurement showing that the fluorescence pixel intensity increased while they were zipped together (Figure 6B). We also noted that the heavy actin bundles can split into two small actin bundles (Figure 6C; see Supplemental Movie 8 online). We next quantified the parameters associated with actin bundles dynamics in shanks. Surprisingly, we found that no obvious difference in bundling frequency was detected in adf7 pollen tubes, whereas debundling frequency significantly decreased in adf7 pollen tubes compared with wild-type pollen tubes (Figure 6D). Therefore, the decrease in debundling frequency may at least partially account for the increase in the extent of filament bundling in adf7 pollen tubes. [[FIGURE]] Considering that ADF7-EGFP fusion proteins act differentially in vivo, careful documentation of their biochemical activities in combination with meaningful comparisons can provide insight into specific mechanisms of action of ADF7 in vivo. In addition to ADF7-EGFPV10, we selected another intramolecular fusion protein, ADF7-EGFPD75, to perform the in vitro biochemical analysis (see Supplemental Figure 7A online). Results from F-actin high-speed cosedimentation experiments revealed that glutathione S-transferase (GST)-ADF7-EGFPV10 binds to F-actin better than GST-ADF7-EGFPD75 (see Supplemental Figures 7B and 7C online). The 6His-ADF7-EGFPV10 fusion protein had slightly less severing activity than ADF7, although no significant difference was detected (see Supplemental Figure 7D online). By contrast, no severing activity was detected for 6His-ADF7-EGFPD75 (see Supplemental Figure 7D online). However, both 6His-ADF7-muEGFPV10 and 6His-ADF7-muEGFPD75 bind G-actin as well as ADF7 (see Supplemental Figure 7E online). Thus, these data suggest that ADF7-EGFPV10 retains levels of filament severing and G-actin binding activity comparable to the wild-type protein. By contrast, though ADF7-EGFPD75 retains G-actin binding activity, it is deficient in filament severing. Therefore, our data provide compelling evidence that the severing activity of ADF7 is vital for its function in vivo.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis plants (Col-0) were grown in a culture room at 22°C under a 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle. To complement the phenotypes associated with adf7 (Salk_024576), a 4.6-kb genomic DNA fragment harboring the ADF7 coding sequence (CDS) was amplified from Arabidopsis wild-type Col-0 genomic DNA using the primer pair G01/G02 (see Supplemental Table 2 online). The sequence of the cloned fragment was confirmed by DNA sequencing, and the fragment was subcloned into pCAMBIA1301 vector cut with SmaI-SalI to yield the complementation construct. The resulting construct was subsequently transformed into adf7 to generate the transgenic plants designated as gADF7;adf7. To investigate ADF7 transcript levels, open flowers with mature pollens were collected. Total RNA was extracted using Trizol reagent (Invitrogen), and cDNA was synthesized using M-MLV (Promega) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. ADF7 transcript levels were compared between wild-type, adf7, and gADF7;adf7 plants by amplifying a fragment using the primer pair R03/R04 (see Supplemental Table 2 online). To determine the levels of ADF7 transcripts in transgenic plants harboring different ADF7-EGFP fusion constructs, two rounds of RT-PCR were performed. Initially, the relative amounts of ADF7 transcripts between the transgenic plants were assessed by amplifying EGFP using the primer pair E01/E02 (see Supplemental Table 2 online). Subsequently, ADF7 transcripts were amplified from transgenic plants harboring N-terminal and C-terminal EGFP fusion constructs using primer pairs R03/R05 and R06/R04 (see Supplemental Table 2 online). These levels were compared with the relative amount of ADF7 transcripts in wild-type plants amplified using the primer pair R03/R04 (see Supplemental Table 2 online). eIF4A was amplified using primer pair R01/R02 (see Supplemental Table 2 online) as the internal control for normalization. The bands on agarose gel were stained with ethidium bromide, photographed, and compared by densitometry using ImageJ software (http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/; version 1.38). Pollen grains were cultured at 28°C on solid pollen GM [0.01% (w/v) H3BO3, 1 mM CaCl2,1 mM Ca(NO3)2,1 mM MgSO4,18% (w/v) Suc, and 0.5% (w/v) agar, pH 7.0] as previously described (CITATION; CITATION). To determine the pollen germination rate, pollen grains were germinated on solid GM for 150 min. Pollen grains were subsequently observed under an Olympus IX71 microscope equipped with a ×10 objective, and images were acquired using a Retiga EXi Fast 1394 charge-coupled device (CCD) camera with Image-Pro Express 6.3 software. More than 500 pollen grains were counted for germination rate analysis per experiment, and each experiment was repeated five times for each genotype. To determine the effect of LatB on pollen germination, various concentrations of LatB were included in the solid GM. To determine the pollen tube growth rate, images of elongating pollen tubes were captured after germination for 60 and 90 min on GM. The average lengths of the pollen tubes at 60 min was subtracted from that at 90 min to obtain the average increase in length, which was then divided by the time interval to yield the average tube growth rate. More than 30 pollen tubes were chosen for tube elongation rate analysis for each experiment, and five and three independent experiments were performed for each genotype in the absence and presence of LatB, respectively. Several GFP fusion constructs were generated to assess the subcellular localization of ADF7. Initially, a 1.8-kb genomic DNA fragment containing the promoter, 5′-untranslated region, and coding region of ADF7 was amplified using the primer pair G03/G04 (see Supplemental Table 2 online) as described by CITATION. This fragment was subsequently used as the template to amplify two consecutive upstream and downstream fragments, allowing for the fusion of EGFP (amplified with primer pair E01/E02; see Supplemental Table 2 online) between them. The construct with EGFP fused after Val10 (V10) of ADF7 (designated as gADF7-EGFPV10) was made exactly as described by CITATION. Selection of the location of the EGFP insertion for several other ADF7 intramolecular fusion constructs was performed based on studies by CITATION. Briefly, the structure of ADF7 was first generated using the structure of yeast cofilin as the template (PDB code 1CFY). We performed a structural alignment with yeast cofilin in order to select amino acids of ADF7 corresponding to the previously described GFP fusion with yeast cofilin (CITATION). The selected amino acids were Ile-73, Thr-74, Asp-75, Glu-76, Asn-77, and Cys-78 in ADF7. The primers used to generate the constructs are shown in Supplemental Table 2 online. Actin filaments in pollen grains and tubes were stained with Alexa-488 phalloidin as previously described (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To determine the effect of LatB on the actin cytoskeleton, pollen grains were treated with 200 nM LatB for 30 min, and the actin cytoskeleton was visualized by staining with Alexa-488 phalloidin. To observe the actin cytoskeleton in pollen tubes, pollen grains were germinated for 75 min at 28°C on solid GM and were subsequently subjected to fixation and staining with Alexa-488 phalloidin. Actin filaments were observed with a confocal laser scanning microscope (Leica TCS SP5) equipped with a ×100 oil objective (1.46–numerical aperture HC PLAN). The fluorescent phalloidin was excited with the 488-nm line of an argon laser, and optical sections were collected with a step size of 0.5 μm for both pollen grains and tubes. The images shown are projections from all optical sections. The architecture of actin cytoskeleton was analyzed within different regions of pollen tubes. The regions 0 to 3 μm, 3 to 10 μm, and more than 10 μm away from the tip were defined as apex, subapex, and shank, respectively. The relative amount of actin filaments in pollen grains or tubes was quantified by measuring the fluorescence pixel intensity using ImageJ software (http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/; version 1.38). Skewness of actin filament staining was analyzed as described by CITATION. The width of filamentous structures was determined roughly according to the method described by CITATION. For a particular filamentous structure, three vertical lines were drawn across it to obtain three values of width of fluorescence pixel intensity at the half height, and the final value of width for the particular filament was yielded by averaging them. To avoid repetitive counting, three or four optical sections were excluded between sections used for analysis in each pollen tube. Actin filaments were labeled with EGFP-lifeact expressed under control of the Lat52 promoter in pollen tubes as previously described by CITATION. Pollen grains were cultured at 28°C on solid pollen GM for 2 h until the average length of the pollen tubes was ∼200 μm and were observed under an Olympus BX61 inverted microscope equipped with a ×100 Universal Plan Super Apochromat Objective (numerical aperture of 1.4) objective. Actin filaments were imaged using a spinning disk confocal microscope equipped with a Yokogawa CSU-X1 spinning disk head. Images were collected with a 512 × 512 Andor iXON electron multiplying CCD camera every 2 s. GFP was excited with a 488-nm laser, and the emitted fluorescence was collected using a 525/50-nm band-pass filter. To measure the dynamic parameters associated with single filaments turnover, we initially defined properties for them. We randomly hand-selected more than 300 filamentous actin structures from 15 wild-type pollen tubes to measure their fluorescence pixel intensity and width. The fluorescence pixel intensity of each filamentous structure was determined by drawing a line along it using the “measure” tool in ImageJ, and the average fluorescence pixel intensity was calculated in Kaleidagraph (Synergy Software; version 4.03). The kernel density of fluorescence pixel intensity distribution was processed using R programming language (http://www.R-project.org; version 2.15.1) as previously described (CITATION). The width of filamentous structures was determined as described above. The filamentous structures with smaller intensity values form a population and are assumed to be single filaments. The filamentous structures with intensity values fall within this population from wild-type and adf7 pollen tubes were selected for further analysis. For analyzing the stochastic dynamic parameters related to single filament turnover, only filaments longer than 2 μm and existing for more than 10 s were selected. Severing frequency (defined as the number of breaks per unit length per unit time; breaks/μm/s), maximum filament length, maximum filament lifetime. and elongation and depolymerization rate were determined and calculated roughly as previously described (CITATION; CITATION). Briefly, the severing frequency was determined by counting all severing events from the filament reaching its maximum length to its disappearance. If a filament regrew after breaking, the length before breaking was taken as its maximum length and the time before breaking was taken as the valid time. The longest length of a tracked filament during its growth and shrinking was taken as the maximum filament length. Maximum filament life time was defined as the elapsed time for a filament from its appearance to its disappearance. Filament elongation and depolymerization rates were calculated as the changes of length versus the time intervals (Δlength/Δtime) in Excel. Only filaments continuously growing or shrinking for at least 10 s were taken into account. To analyze the bundling and debundling frequency in shanks of pollen tubes, we selected a 10 × 6-μm2 region that was 20 μm away from the tip to perform the analysis. The dynamics of actin bundles in this region was tracked in a consecutive 60 s and analyzed. The bundling and debundling frequencies were defined as the number of these events per unit area per unit time (events/μm2/s). Total RNA was isolated from flowers of wild-type, gADF7-EGFPV10:adf7, and gADF7-EGFPD75;adf7 plants using Trizol reagent, and the corresponding cDNA was subsequently synthesized using M-MLV according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Since the CDSs of ADF7 and ADF10 share 91.6% nucleotide identity, one primer pair R03/R04 (see Supplemental Table 2 online) derived from the ADF7 untranslated region was used to specifically amplify ADF7 cDNA using wild-type cDNA as the template. The resulting product was subsequently used as the template to amplify the CDS of ADF7 using the primer pair P01/P02 (see Supplemental Table 2 online). After verification of the correct sequence by DNA sequencing analysis, the ADF7 CDS was subcloned into the pGEX-KG vector to generate the pGEX-KG-ADF7 construct. Similarly, the CDSs for ADF7-EGFPV10 and ADF7-EGFPD75 were amplified using primer pair P01/P02 (see Supplemental Table 2 online) and cDNA derived from gADF7-EGFPV10:adf7 and gADF7-EGFPD75;adf7 as templates. The resulting products were verified by sequencing and subcloned into pGEX-KG cut with EcoRI-NcoI to produce the pGEX-KG-ADF7-EGFPV10 and pGEX-KG-ADF7-EGFPD75 constructs. The ADF7-EGFPV10 CDS and the ADF7-EGFPD75 CDS were also amplified with primer pair P03/P04 (see Supplemental Table 2 online), verified by DNA sequencing, and subcloned into the pET28a vector cut with NdeI-HindIII to generate the pET28a-ADF7-EGFPV10 and pET28a-ADF7-EGFPD75 constructs. Because EGFP interferes with the NBD-actin binding assay due to overlap of the wavelengths associated with absorption and emission of EGFP and NBD, we eliminated this effect by deleting three key amino acids (65T/66Y/67G) within the fluorophore center of EGFP. Thus, the plasmids, pET28a-ADF7-EGFPV10 and pET28a-ADF7-EGFPD75, were used as templates to generate the mutant constructs, pET28a-ADF7-muEGFPV10 and pET28a-ADF7-muEGFPD75, respectively, using primer pair P05/P06 (see Supplemental Table 2 online). To generate recombinant proteins, these expression constructs were transformed into the Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) strain. Expression of these recombinant proteins was induced by the addition of 0.4 mM isopropyl β-d-thiogalactopyranoside, followed by incubation at 37°C for 4 h. Cells were harvested by centrifugation at 4000g for 10 min and lysed by sonication. GST fusion proteins were purified using glutathione-sepharose resin according to the manufacturer’s recommended protocol. To produce ADF7 lacking a tag, GST-ADF7 was digested with thrombin (Sigma-Aldrich) overnight at 4°C to cleave GST. ADF7 was further purified by Q-sepharose chromatography (Amersham Biosciences). After loading onto a Q-sepharose column, ADF7 was eluted with elution buffer (10 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 100 mM KCl, and 1 mM DTT) after extensive washing with wash buffer (10 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, and 1 mM DTT). The 6His-ADF7-EGFPV10, 6His-ADF7-EGFPD75, 6His-ADF7-muEGFPV10, and 6His-ADF7-muEGFPD75 fusion proteins were purified with nickel-nitriloacetic acid resin (Novagen) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. All purified proteins were dialyzed against 5 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, flash frozen in liquid nitrogen, and stored at −80°C. ADF1 was purified as described by CITATION. Actin was purified from rabbit skeletal muscle acetone powder as previously described (CITATION), and monomeric Ca2+-ATP-actin was purified using Sephacryl S-300 chromatography in buffer G (5 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 0.2 mM ATP, 0.1 mM CaCl2, 0.5 mM DTT, and 0.1 mM NaN3) at 4°C (CITATION). A high speed cosedimentation assay was adapted from previously published methods (CITATION; CITATION). All proteins, including G-actin, were preclarified at 160,000g for 30 min at 4°C. Actin filaments (3 μM) were incubated with increasing concentrations (1 to 30 μM) of ADF7 or ADF1 or a constant concentration (5 and 10 μM) of GST-ADF7-EGFPV10 or GST-ADF7-EGFPD75. After incubation for 30 min at 25°C, the reaction mixtures were centrifuged at 100,000g for 30 min at 4°C. Fractions containing the supernatants and pellets were resolved by SDS-PAGE, and the gels were stained with Coomassie Brilliant Blue R 250 (Sigma-Aldrich). The amount of actin in the supernatant or pellet was quantified by densitometry using ImageJ (http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/; version 1.38). Actin (4 µM) was incubated at 25°C for 30 min in polymerization buffer (10 mM imidazole, pH 7.0, 2 mM MgCl2, 0.2 mM ATP, 50 mM KCl, 1 mM EGTA, 0.2 mM CaCl2, 0.5 mM DTT, and 3 mM NaN3). The resulting actin filaments (4 μM) were then incubated with varying concentrations of ADF7 or ADF1 for 3 min. An equimolar amount of Rhodamine-phalloidin (Sigma-Aldrich) was then added to label actin filaments and stop the reaction as described by CITATION. Finally, actin filaments were diluted to 10 nM with fluorescence buffer (10 mM imidazole-HCl, pH 7.0, 50 mM KCl, 1 mM MgCl2, 100 mM DTT, 100 μg/mL Glc oxidase, 15 μg/mL Glc, 20 μg/mL catalase, and 0.5% methylcellulose). A sample of 2.5 μL of the actin filament mixture was then placed on a 22 × 22-mm cover slip coated with 0.01% poly-l-Lys. Actin filaments were visualized by epifluorescence illumination under an Olympus IX71 microscope equipped with a ×60 oil objective (1.42 numerical aperture). Images were captured using a Retiga EXi Fast 1394 CCD camera (QImaging) with Image-Pro Express 6.3 software. The length of individual actin filaments was quantified using ImageJ (http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/; version 1.38). All proteins and buffers were clarified by centrifugation at 200,000g for 60 min at 4°C prior to the assay. Actin (5 μM) was polymerized at 25°C for 2 h in polymerization buffer (described above). The resulting actin filaments (0.5 μM) were then incubated with varying concentrations of ADF7 or ADF1 in 1× KMEI (10 mM imidazole-HCl, pH 7.0, 50 mM KCl, 1 mM MgCl2, and 1 mM EGTA). The absorbance associated with light scattering was monitored for 30 min using a QuantaMaster Luminescence QM 3 PH fluorometer (Photon Technology International) with both emission and excitation wavelengths set at 450 nm. Actin was labeled with 5-(and-6)-carboxytetramethylrhodamine-succinimidyl-ester, and the flow cell was prepared as previously described (CITATION). The flow cell was incubated with 25 nM N-ethylmaleimide-myosin for 2 min, followed by washing with 1% BSA for 3 min. It was next injected with 1× TIRF microscopy buffer (10 mM imidazole, pH 7.0, 50 mM KCl, 1 mM MgCl2, 1 mM EGTA, 50 mM DTT, 0.2 mM ATP, 50 μM CaCl2, 15 mM Glc, 20 μg/mL catalase, 100 μg/mL Glc oxidase, and 0.5% methylcellulose). Actin filaments (100 nM; 50% rhodamine-labeled) were injected into the chamber, and the mixture was incubated for 3 min in the dark. Finally, the flow cell was washed with 1× TIRF microscopy buffer to remove free actin filaments that were not attached to NEM-myosin. Single actin filaments were observed by TIRF illumination with an Olympus IX81 microscope equipped with a ×100 oil objective (1.49 numerical aperture). Images were collected for 5 min with an interval of 3 or 1 s using a Photometrics cascade II 512 CCD camera (Major Instruments) with microManager software. To determine the filament severing activity of ADF7, ADF1, 6His-ADF7-EGFPV10, and 6His-ADF7-EGFPD75, varying concentrations of these proteins were injected into the chamber in 1× TIRF microscopy buffer. The filament severing frequency was defined as breaks/μm/s as previously reported (CITATION). More than 20 actin filaments with lengths >10 μm were selected for quantification of actin filament severing frequency. The monomer dissociation rate (subunits/s) was determined assuming 1-μm-length filament equals 334 subunits. The definition for the pointed end and barbed end of each measured filament in the absence or presence of ADF proteins was according to the description by CITATION. G-actin binding activity of ADF7 or ADF1 was determined by measuring the decrease in fluorescence of NBD-labeled actin. NBD-G-actin was prepared as previously described (CITATION). NBD-ATP-actin or NBD-ADP-actin was prepared as described by CITATION. For the preparation of NBD-ATP-G-actin, 20 μM NBD-actin was incubated with 1 mM ATP for 70 min at 4°C in the dark. For the preparation of NBD-ADP-G-actin, 20 μM NBD-actin was incubated with 20 units/mL of hexokinase (Sigma-Aldrich) and 1 mM Glc for 3 h at 4°C in the dark. NBD-ATP-G-actin or NBD-ADP-G-actin (0.2 μM) was then incubated with increasing concentrations of ADF7, ADF1, 6His-ADF7-muEGFPD75, or 6His-ADF7-muEGFPV10 in 1 mM MgCl2 and 100 mM KCl. The change in NBD fluorescence was analyzed for 20 s using a QuantaMaster Luminescence QM 3 PH fluorometer with the excitation and emission wavelengths set to 475 and 530 nm, respectively. The resulting data were fitted using Kaleidagraph (Synergy Software; version 3.6) with the following equations (CITATION):(1)(2)(3)where α = Q/Qmax, Qmax is the maximum fluorescence quenching caused by the saturation of G-actin bound to ADF, [ADF]0 is the total concentration of ADF, [G]0 is the total concentration of G-actin, and Kd is the equilibrium dissociation constant of the G-actin-ADF complex. The rate of G-actin nucleotide exchange was determined by measuring the increase in fluorescence upon binding of 1,N6-ethenoadenosine 5′-triphosphate (ε-ATP; Sigma-Aldrich). The experiment was performed as described by CITATION. Briefly, 2 μM ADP-actin in buffer G lacking ATP was incubated with Tris/NaCl buffer (20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, and 50 mM NaCl) alone or containing ADF7 or ADF1. Next, 50 μM ε-ATP (Molecular Probes) was added to the solution. The reaction was monitored using a QuantaMaster Luminescence QM 3 PH fluorometer for a minimum of 10 min with the excitation and emission wavelengths set at 350 and 410 nm, respectively. The actin filament turnover rate was quantified as previously described (CITATION; CITATION). Fluorescently labeled ε-ADP-actin filaments were preassembled from ε-ATP-actin subunits, and the turnover rate was determined by measuring the change in fluorescence caused by exchange of ε-ADP for nonfluorescent ATP. εATP-G-actin was prepared as previously described (CITATION), and 15 μM εATP-G-actin was assembled in the presence of 30 μM εATP in 1× KMEI (50 mM KCl, 1 mM MgCl2, 1 mM EGTA, and 10 mM imidazol-HCl, pH 7.0). Subsequently, 4 μM εADP-actin filaments were incubated with 5 μM ADF7 or 5 μM ADF1 for 20 min in 1× KMEI. The change in the fluorescence at 25°C was analyzed after the addition of 1 mM ATP using a QuantaMaster Luminescence QM 3 PH fluorometer. The excitation and emission wavelengths were 350 and 410 nm, respectively. Sequence alignment was performed using the online software program ClustalW (http://www.genome.jp/tools/clustalw/). The resulting data were saved as an .aln file and submitted to the online server ESPript2.2 (http://espript.ibcp.fr/ESPript/cgi-bin/ESPript.cgi) to predict the secondary structures and calculate the amino acid similarity based on the Risler matrix method with the global score set to 0.7. The crystal structure of yeast cofilin (PDB ID: 1COF) and a predicted three-dimensional structure of ADF7 that was generated by homology modeling using the crystal structure of ADF1 (PDB ID:1F7S) as a template were used to improve the alignment results. The structure of the ADF7 (pink)/Actin1 (green) complex was generated by SWISS-MODEL (http://swissmodel.expasy.org/SWISS-MODEL.html) using the known crystal structure of rabbit alpha skeletal muscle actin/mouse twinfilin1 C-terminal ADF-H domain (Twf-C) complex as the template (PDB ID: 3DAW). The structure was displayed with PyMOL (version 1.4.1; DeLano Scientific). A simulation model of an actin filament decorated with ADF7 was generated based on the PDB ID 3J0S template, in which each human cofilin-2 was replaced with ADF7. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative and GenBank/UniProtKB under accession numbers At4g25590 (ADF7), AAA13256.1 (Saccharomyces cerevisiae cofilin), Q39250 (ADF1), Q91YR1 (Mus musculus Twifilin1), P68135 (Oryctolagus cuniculus alpha skeletal muscle actin), P0CJ46 (Arabidopsis Actin1), P60706 (Gallus gallus cytoplasmic actin1), and P23528 (Homo sapiens cofilin2). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Loss of ADF7 Does Not Affect Pollen Germination. Supplemental Figure 2. No Change in F-Actin Levels Was Detected in adf7 Pollen Grains. Supplemental Figure 3. Loss of ADF7 Renders Pollen Germination Resistant to LatB. Supplemental Figure 4. ADF7 Depolymerizes Actin Filaments but Is less Potent Than ADF1. Supplemental Figure 5. ADF7-EGFPV10 Is Fully Functional. Supplemental Figure 6. The Distribution of Fluorescence Pixel Intensity and Width of Filamentous Structures in Wild-Type Pollen Tubes. Supplemental Figure 7. ADF7-EGFPV10 Retains Both G-Actin Binding and Filament Severing Activity, Whereas ADF7-EGFPD75 Retains G-Actin Binding Activity but Is Deficient in Severing Actin Filaments. Supplemental Figure 8. Homology Modeling of Three-Dimensional Structures of the ADF7/Actin Complex and ADF7-Decorated F-Actin. Supplemental Table 1. The Binding Affinity of ADF Proteins to NBD-ADP-Actin and NBD-ATP-Actin. Supplemental Table 2. Primers Sequences Used in This Study. Supplemental Movie 1. Time-Series Movie of Actin Filament Severing in the Absence of ADF7. Supplemental Movie 2. Time-Series Movie of Actin Filament Severing in the Presence of 200 nM ADF7. Supplemental Movie 3. Time-Series Movie Displaying the Severing Events of Single Filaments in a Wild-Type Pollen Tube. Supplemental Movie 4. Time-Series Movie Displaying the Severing Events of Single Filaments in an adf7 Pollen Tube. Supplemental Movie 5. Time-Series Movie Displaying the Depolymerization of a Single Filament in a Wild-Type Pollen Tube. Supplemental Movie 6. Time-Series Movie Displaying the Depolymerization of a Single Filament in an adf7 Pollen Tube. Supplemental Movie 7. Time-Series Movie Displaying the Formation of a Thick Bundle in a Wild-Type Pollen Tube. Supplemental Movie 8. Time-Series Movie Displaying the Debundling Event of a Thick Bundle in a Wild-Type Pollen Tube. Supplemental Movie Legends 1. Brief Descriptions of Supplemental Movies 1-8.
