!~ABS~! Arabidopsis cell growth defect factor-1 (Cdf1 in yeast, At5g23040) was originally isolated as a cell growth suppressor of yeast from genetic screening. To investigate the in vivo role of Cdf1 in plants, a T-DNA insertion line was analyzed. A homozygous T-DNA insertion mutant (cdf1/cdf1) was embryo lethal and showed arrested embryogenesis at the globular stage. The Cdf1 protein, when fused with green fluorescent protein, was localized to the plastid in stomatal guard cells and mesophyll cells. A promoter-β-glucuronidase assay found expression of Cdf1 in the early heart stage of embryogenesis, suggesting that Cdf1 was essential for Arabidopsis embryogenesis during the transition of the embryo from the globular to heart stage.
!~RES~! The Arabidopsis Cdf1 (At5g23040) gene was originally isolated and used as a cell growth suppressor of yeast based on effects of artificial overexpression (Kawai-Yamada et al. CITATION). In an attempt to investigate the function of Cdf1 in plants, a single T-DNA insertion line, Garlic-903-D06, was obtained. No homozygous cdf1/cdf1 mutant individuals were detected among seeds of self-fertilized heterozygous plants (+/cdf1), suggesting that cdf1/cdf1 confers a lethal phenotype. The phenotype of the heterozygote was indistinguishable from that of wild-type plants (Fig. 1a), indicating that only one copy of a functional Cdf1 is sufficient for embryogenesis and other plant growth events. Among immature siliques of heterozygous plants (+/cdf1), white abnormal seeds were observed. Furthermore, dark brown aborted seeds were noted in mature siliques of heterozygous plants (Fig. 1b, c). When ten immature siliques of heterozygous plants (+/cdf1) were observed, the abnormal white seeds constituted about 25 % of the total (347 seeds were green, but 107 were white), suggesting that the phenotype was controlled by a single gene. [[FIGURE]]  To confirm that the abnormal seed phenotype resulted from the insertion of T-DNA in the Cdf1 gene, a +/cdf1 heterozygous plant was crossed with a transgenic line in which Cdf1 cDNA was overexpressed under control of the CaMV 35S promoter (OX). The F1 progenies were grown on MS medium containing bialaphos and hygromycin, because the T-DNA insert possesses a bialaphos-resistant gene and OX plants are hygromycin resistant. The bialaphos/hygromycin-double resistant seedlings were screened to identify +/cdf1 heterozygotes possessing 35Spro-Cdf1. Among the self-fertilized (F2) seeds of the screened F1 progeny, homozygous plants that showed complementation of the mutation (cdf1/cdf1 with overexpressed Cdf1 cDNA) were isolated and the presence of the cDNA was confirmed by PCR. As shown in Fig. 2a, b, T-DNA insertion to the Cdf1 gene and the existence of overexpressed Cdf1 cDNA were monitored by amplification with appropriate primer sets. The intact Cdf1 gene was detected by amplification with primer pair S1/A2, suggesting that a complemented cdf1/cdf1 plant overexpressing Cdf1 cDNA had been obtained (Fig. 2b). The complemented plant (cdf1/cdf1 with OX) showed normal seed development, as shown in Fig. 2c. When ten siliques of the complemented lines were observed, abnormal seeds constituted about 1.2 % of the total (497 seeds were green, but 6 were abnormal, which was similar to wild type). Furthermore, the complemented line and Cdf1 overexpressor did not show any differences in growth rate compared to wild-type or heterozygous plants under normal growth conditions. [[FIGURE]]  To investigate the cause of lethality, embryo development in different developing seeds of siliques of wild-type and heterozygous plants was analyzed using a Nomarski microscope (Fig. 3). The embryos of the two plants were indistinguishable before the globular stage (3 days after pollination). However, in older siliques (4–5 days after pollination) when the wild-type plants had embryos at the heart stage, about 25 % of the embryos of heterozygous plants were arrested at the globular stage. [[FIGURE]]  As demonstrated in a previous work (Kawai-Yamada et al. CITATION), various intracellular localization tools predicted plastidic membrane localization of the Cdf1 protein. The Cdf1 protein sequence is predicted to encode a chloroplast transient peptide at the N-terminus (based on the PSORT program, http://psort.hgc.jp/; and TargetP program, http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/) and three transmembrane domains (based on the SOSUI system, http://bp.nuap.nagoya-u.ac.jp/sosui/). To experimentally verify the subcellular localization of the Cdf1 protein, Cdf1 cDNA was fused to the N-terminus of the GFP gene. The resultant plasmid (Cdf1-GFP) was expressed under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter in wild-type Arabidopsis, and the GFP signal in transgenic plants was observed by fluorescence microscopy. As shown in Fig. 4, GFP fluorescence was associated with plastids in stomata cells and mesophyll cells in leaves. [[FIGURE]]  Furthermore, Arabidopsis plants were transformed by another plasmid containing the promoter region of Cdf1 (−2 kb) fused with the N-terminal ten amino acids of Cdf1 and GUS. Histochemical analysis of Cdf1 promoter activity showed a strong signal in whole plant organs (Fig. 5a–c). Especially strong signals were detected in young leaves, flowers, and the root elongation zone. In addition, Cdf1-promoter activity was low in the globular stage, but was stimulated in the heart and linear stages (Fig. 5d–f) and maintained through the mature embryo stage (Fig. 5g). [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana [L] Heynh) ecotype Columbia was used as the wild-type plant in this study. Seeds were sterilized with sodium hypochlorite solution and grown on either plates containing 0.5× MS medium with 0.2 % Gellan gum and 2 % (w/v) sucrose or Jiffy-7 pellets (Jiffy Products International AS, Stange, Norway). All plant materials were grown at 23 °C under continuous light (60 μmol photons m−2 s−1). The T-DNA insertion line (Garlic-903-D06) was obtained from Syngenta (Gilroy Arabidopsis Reverse Lethal Insertion Collection, Research Triangle Park, NC, USA; now available from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center, http://abrc.osu.edu/resources). To determine the position of the T-DNA insert, a DNA fragment was amplified by PCR with specific primers for the T-DNA left border and Cdf1 (described below), and the nucleotide sequence of the resulting product was determined. The Garlic-903-D06 line had a T-DNA insertion in its first intron. The T-DNA left border primer, A1, 5′-TAGCATCTGAATTTCATAACCAATCTCGATACAC-3′, and gene-specific primer, S1, 5′-TCCTTGTCCCTCAATTTGAATCTCAACTTT-3′ were used to screen plants for T-DNA insertion. The T-DNA-bordering DNA fragment was ligated into the plasmid pGEM and sequenced to determine the location of the T-DNA. Genetic and microscopy experiments were used to determine embryo-defective phenotypes in seeds of self-fertilized +/cdf1 heterozygotes and F1 seeds of plants produced by complementation crosses. Using stereomicroscopy, the siliques were examined to determine the proportion of abnormal seeds. Furthermore, mature seeds were examined under a TM1000 tabletop scanning microscope (Hitachi, Tokyo, Japan). The Cdf1 was fused with cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. The plasmid, 35Spro-Cdf1, was constructed using a PCR-amplified SalI/SacI-tagged Cdf1 cDNA fragment. The 35Spro-GFP vector has been described previously (Kawai-Yamada et al. CITATION). The resultant plasmid, 35Spro-Cdf1, was introduced into Arabidopsis through Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Plant lines possessing a single transgene were self-fertilized to obtain homozygous plants. For complementation crossing, +/cdf1 heterozygous plants (bialaphos-resistant) were pollinated with the 35Spro-Cdf1 (hygromycin-resistant) line. F1 seeds were selected on MS medium containing bialaphos and hygromycin. The selected plants (+/cdf1 with heterologous transgene) were self-fertilized and F2 seeds were obtained. Among the F2 seeds, homozygous (cdf1/cdf1) plants possessing 35Spro-Cdf1 were identified and confirmed by genomic PCR using primers 35Spro, 5′-CCTTCGCAAGACCCTTCCTC-3′, and A2, 5′-TTAGGAGCTCGAGTGTCCATGTAGGCTGAA-3′. Siliques from heterozygous +/cdf1 or wild-type plants at different developmental stages were dissected and examined using an MZ APO stereomicroscope (Leica, Wetzlar, Germany). Immature siliques were fixed in 90 % acetone and 10 % acetic acid overnight and gradually hydrated using serial dilutions of ethanol solutions (from 90 to 30 %). The samples were washed with distilled water and then dipped in 16.1 M chloral hydrate in glycerol/water (1:2, v/v) solution. The chloral hydrate-treated transparentized tissues were observed using an HC/DMR microscope (Leica) equipped with Nomarski optics. The SalI-tagged PCR-amplified Cdf1 cDNA fragment was ligated with the SalI-digested pBIG-GFP cassette vector. The resultant plasmid, 35Spro-Cdf1-GFP, was introduced into Arabidopsis through Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The transformants were grown on MS plates or Jiffy-7 pellets and then examined under a fluorescent microscope. The promoter-β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter assay plasmid consisted of 2 kbp of the Cdf1 promoter region and the part encoding the N-terminal ten amino acids of Cdf1 fused with the GUS reporter. The genomic fragment of Cdf1 promoter was amplified with primers 5′-GGTCGACTGGCAAAACTCAAACTCCACTTC-3′ and 5′-TTCTAGAGATAAACGAAGAAGATACAGTAG-3′ by PCR and inserted into the SalI/XbaI site of the cassette plasmid pHTS6.1 (Kawai-Yamada et al. CITATION) containing the GUS reporter gene. The resultant plasmid was introduced into the Agrobacterium tumefaciens EHA105 strain, and transgenic Arabidopsis plants were obtained by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. GUS assays were performed as described previously (Kawai-Yamada et al. CITATION).
