!~ABS~! The function of a putative galacturonosyltransferase from Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana; At1g02720; GALACTURONOSYLTRANSFERASE-LIKE5 [AtGATL5]) was studied using a combination of molecular genetic, chemical, and immunological approaches. AtGATL5 is expressed in all plant tissues, with highest expression levels in siliques 7 DPA. Furthermore, its expression is positively regulated by several transcription factors that are known to regulate seed coat mucilage production. AtGATL5 is localized in both endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi, in comparison with marker proteins resident to these subcellular compartments. A transfer DNA insertion in the AtGATL5 gene generates seed coat epidermal cell defects both in mucilage synthesis and cell adhesion. Transformation of atgatl5-1 mutants with the wild-type AtGATL5 gene results in the complementation of all morphological phenotypes. Compositional analyses of the mucilage isolated from the atgatl5-1 mutant demonstrated that galacturonic acid and rhamnose contents are decreased significantly in atgatl5-1 compared with wild-type mucilage. No changes in structure were observed between soluble mucilage isolated from wild-type and mutant seeds, except that the molecular weight of the mutant mucilage increased 63% compared with that of the wild type. These data provide evidence that AtGATL5 might function in the regulation of the final size of the mucilage rhamnogalacturonan I.
!~RES~! AtGATL5 (At1g02720) encodes a putative GT that belongs in the GATL subclade of the GT8 family (CITATION). The coding region of AtGATL5 consists of a single exon encoding a protein with a predicted molecular mass of 41 kD. Like all other AtGATL proteins, the catalytic domain of the AtGATL5 protein contains a DxDxxxxxD motif, which is thought to be involved in nucleotide sugar binding, and also contains several conserved motifs characteristic of family GT8 GTs (CITATION; CITATION). Analysis of the AtGATL5 protein sequence using the TMHMM2.0 program for the prediction of transmembrane helices in proteins (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TMHMM-2.0/) predicts that AtGATL5 has no transmembrane domain, suggesting that the AtGATL5 protein is not an integral membrane protein (Fig. 1A). To determine the actual subcellular localization of AtGATL5, the AtGATL5 gene was fused in frame at the C terminus with EYFP and transformed into wild-type Arabidopsis plants. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants exhibited both punctate and network-like fluorescence signals in the cytoplasm of root epidermal cells (Fig. 1, B and C), indicating that AtGATL5 is located in subcellular organelles. This construct also has been used to complement the reduced mucilage phenotype of the atgatl5-1 mutant (Supplemental Fig. S1), demonstrating that the fusion protein retains AtGATL5 functionality. To further explore the subcellular localization of AtGATL5, Pro-35S:AtGATL5-EYFP was cotransformed into Nicotiana benthamiana leaf epidermal cells with genes encoding either Gmct-ECFP, an enhanced cyan fluorescent protein-tagged Golgi marker (CITATION; CITATION), or ECFP-WAK2-HDEL, an endoplasmic reticulum (ER) marker (CITATION). As shown in Figure 1, D to I, enhanced yellow fluorescent protein (EYFP)-tagged AtGATL5 colocalizes well with both marker proteins, indicating that the AtGATL5 protein localizes to both Golgi and ER. [[FIGURE]] Our previous promoter:GUS expression studies showed that the AtGATL5 gene is expressed ubiquitously in all the major tissues examined in Arabidopsis (CITATION). According to the AtGenExpress visualization tool (http://jsp.weigelworld.org/expviz/expviz.jsp; CITATION), the highest level of expression was found during seed development, specifically in the heart to torpedo stages of embryo development (Supplemental Fig. S2A). In addition, data available from transcriptome analyses using RNA extracted from laser-capture-dissected seed coat tissue (CITATION; http://seedgenenetwork.net/arabidopsis) indicate that AtGATL5 transcript levels are low in the seed coat during early embryogenesis and that the levels rise from the linear cotyledon stage onward (Supplemental Fig. S2B). We performed in situ hybridization to determine the specific cell type(s) in the seed in which AtGATL5 is expressed. The results demonstrate that AtGATL5 expression is confined exclusively to the epidermal cell layer of the outer integument (Fig. 2). [[FIGURE]] Quantitative real-time PCR was performed using RNA extracted from developing wild-type siliques at 4, 7, and 10 DPA (Fig. 3A). AtGATL5 is up-regulated approximately 41 times at 7 DPA, corresponding to seeds with late heart to torpedo stage embryos, when mucilage production in seed coats is at its peak, compared with 4-DPA seeds, when mucilage synthesis has not yet been initiated. This expression pattern is consistent with a role for AtGATL5 in mucilage synthesis. [[FIGURE]] Two independent transfer DNA (T-DNA) insertion lines, Salk_106615 and Salk_038363, were selected and screened for disruption of the AtGATL5 gene using PCR. As shown in Figure 3B, Salk_106615 has a T-DNA inserted in the exon of AtGATL5, whereas the Salk_038363 mutant carries a T-DNA insertion in the 3′ untranslated region. Plants homozygous for T-DNA insertions in AtGATL5 obtained from the independent insertion lines Salk_106615 and Salk_038363 were named atgatl5-1 and atgatl5-2, respectively (Fig. 3B). The effect of the T-DNA insertions on AtGATL5 mRNA expression levels was studied by reverse transcription (RT)-PCR amplification using primers spanning the coding region of the mRNA. No amplification was observed in the atgatl5-1 mutant, whereas a clear band corresponding to the amplification of AtGATL5 mRNA was visible in atgatl5-2 and wild-type plants (Fig. 3C). The phenotypes described in this article have been observed only in atgatl5-1 plants but not in atgatl5-2 plants. When mature hydrated seeds were stained with ruthenium red, which stains negatively charged biopolymers such as pectin and DNA (CITATION), only a thin irregular staining pattern was observed in atgatl5-1 seeds, whereas wild-type seeds showed intense regular spherical staining (Fig. 4, A and B). Further studies were carried out on sections prepared from seeds that were stained with toluidine blue O, a polychromatic dye that stains mucilage pink (CITATION). Significant pink-staining mucilage was seen in the epidermal cells of both mutant and wild-type seeds after the completion of mucilage synthesis (10 DPA; Fig. 4, D and E). [[FIGURE]] To further analyze the defects present in the atgatl5-1 seed coat, seeds of the wild type and atgatl5-1 were observed by scanning electron microscopy. As shown in Figure 4, G, H, J, and K, the central volcano-shaped columella in atgatl5-1 seed coat epidermal cells is broader than that in wild-type seeds, in agreement with the reduced amount of mucilage (Fig. 4, A and B). These results were confirmed by calcofluor white staining of Arabidopsis seeds, which brightly stains the columella and the hexagonal walls of epidermal cells (Fig. 4, M and N) and also shows that atgatl5-1 mucilage secretory cells have a wider columella (Fig. 4N) than wild-type secretory cells (Fig. 4M). The increased width of the columella is consistent with the phenotype seen in other mutants with severely (mum4 and ttg1) and moderately (men4) reduced mucilage production (CITATION; CITATION). Besides the mucilage defect and changes in mucilage secretory cell structure, the atgatl5-1 mutant also shows less adhesion between the hexagonal seed coat epidermal cell walls and wild-type seeds, as evidenced by the appearance of two distinct walls side by side in some areas of the seed coat, rather than a single thick wall as seen for wild-type cells, in either the scanning electron microscopy images or in the calcofluor white-stained seeds (Fig. 4, J, K, M, and N; Supplemental Fig. S1, G and H). Immunogold labeling, using CCRC-M38 (a nonmethylesterified HG-directed monoclonal antibody; CITATION), was employed to visualize the localization of HG epitopes in seed coat epidermal cells. Nonmethylesterified HG is evenly distributed in the middle lamella and cell corners of seed coat epidermal cells (Fig. 5, A–C). Labeling is also observed in clumps within the apoplastic space interior to the cell wall of seed coat epidermal cells, which is where the mucilage is deposited (Fig. 5, D–F). Less labeling was observed in both areas in atgatl5-1 seeds compared with the wild type and with the complemented atgatl5-1 seeds (Fig. 5). [[FIGURE]] Homozygous atgatl5-1 mutant plants are morphologically indistinguishable from wild-type plants throughout development and reached similar sizes in their aboveground growth. No significant differences in root growth were observed when atgatl5-1 and wild-type seeds were germinated on vertical agar plates (data not shown). Complementation of the atgatl5-1 mutant with a wild-type copy of the AtGATL5 gene was undertaken in order to verify that the mutant phenotypes result from the knockout of the AtGATL5 gene. An exogenous copy of the AtGATL5 gene driven by its native promoter was transformed into atgatl5-1 mutants. Twelve independent transformants were examined, and all showed the same characteristics. Representative results are shown in Figures 4, C, F, I, L, and O, 5, C and F, and Supplemental Figure S1, C, F, and I and demonstrate that transformation of the AtGATL5 gene into atgatl5-1 restored all observed mutant phenotypes to the wild type. These experiments show that the phenotypes observed in atgatl5-1 are the result of the mutation in the AtGATL5 gene. Arabidopsis seed mucilage has two layers. The outer layer is water soluble and is easily extracted using either water or ammonium oxalate (CITATION). The inner layer is strongly attached to the seed and cannot be removed with either hot acid or alkali (CITATION). The sugar composition of the water-extractable outer layer showed a reduction in the amounts of GalA and Rha, but no change in the molar ratios of these two sugars, in the atgatl5-1 mutant mucilage compared with the wild type (Supplemental Table S1). In order to obtain a more complete picture of total mucilage composition, rhamnogalacturonan hydrolase treatment was used to solubilize both layers of mucilage from atgatl5-1 and wild-type seeds, and the monosaccharide compositions of the released materials were analyzed. Rhamnogalacturonan hydrolase cleaves unbranched RG-I to oligomers with Rha at the nonreducing end (CITATION), and ruthenium red staining of the extracted seeds showed that, compared with water or ammonium oxalate extraction, rhamnogalacturonan hydrolase removes the mucilage more extensively than does water (Supplemental Fig. S3). Although some cell wall components from the seed coat or the embryo might also be released, compositional analysis of the enzyme-released mucilage best represents the composition of the total seed mucilage, as the molar ratio of Rha and GalA is close to 1:1 (Table I). The total amount of sugar released by the enzyme treatment was reduced approximately 35% in atgatl5-1 seeds compared with wild-type seeds (Table I). Most of this decline in total sugar released from mutant seed is accounted for by decreases in the amounts of GalA and Rha released (40% and 34%, respectively) compared with the wild type. Other monosaccharides, including Ara, Fuc, Xyl, Man, Gal, and Glc, only account for a few percent of the total monosaccharides released and did not change appreciably in atgatl5-1 (Table I; Supplemental Table S1). In the wild type and the atgatl5-1 mutant, the water-soluble mucilage fraction accounts for around 70% of the total mucilage; the other 30% is strongly attached to the seed coat. Transformation of the atgatl5-1 mutant with a wild-type copy of the AtGATL5 gene rescued the reduced GalA and Rha to wild-type levels (Table I). These results suggest that the amount of RG-I, which is the major component of mucilage, synthesized by atgatl5-1 seeds is significantly reduced. This is in agreement with microscopic observations that indicated that the atgatl5-1 mutant testa epidermal cells release lower quantities of mucilage, as measured by staining with ruthenium red (Fig. 4). The amounts of sugar are presented as mean values (μg sugar mg−1 seeds) ± se of three independent samples. Significance was tested by the Mann-Whitney U test comparing atgatl5-1 with the wild type (*P < 0.05). To investigate the structure of seed mucilage in the wild type and the atgatl5-1 mutant in greater detail, glycosyl linkage analysis was performed on the soluble polysaccharides extracted from wild-type and atgatl5-1 seed mucilage without enzyme treatment. Consistent with previous studies (CITATION; CITATION), the predominant linkages in the mucilage of both the wild type and atgatl5-1 are 2-linked Rha (2-Rhap) and 4-linked GalA (4-GalAp); both of these linkages decreased slightly in atgatl5-1 mucilage compared with the wild type (Table II). Consistent with the monosaccharide analysis data in Table I, no detectable changes in the glycosyl linkage composition of other sugars were found in atgatl5-1 mucilage. These finding suggest that the reduced mucilage content in atgatl5-1 seeds is not associated with major changes in RG-I structure. Values are means of two samples with variance less than 5%. Results are given as mol %. tr, Trace amounts less than 0.5%. All sugar-associated peaks in the chromatogram are accounted for by these data. The glycosyl composition and linkage composition analyses suggest that only the amount of RG-I is reduced in the atgatl5-1 mutant mucilage. To further examine whether the structural features of the mutant mucilage are altered or not, over 100 antibodies that recognize most major classes of cell wall polysaccharides, including pectins (HG and RG-I), hemicelluloses (xyloglucan and xylan), galactans, and arabinogalactans, were employed to probe the mutant mucilage by ELISA. As shown in Supplemental Figure S4, a total of 18 antibodies that recognize epitopes on HG (CCRC-M34, CCRC-M38, JIM5, JIM7, JIM136, and JIM137), RG-I (CCRC-M14, CCRC-M30, CCRC-M35, CCRC-M36, CCRC-M56, CCRC-M69, CCRC-M72, CCRC-M79, CCRC-M80, CCRC-M82, and CCRC-M83), and arabinogalactan (JIM19) bind strongly to mucilage. No significant differences in binding were observed between wild-type and atgatl5-1 mucilage for any of the antibodies tested, indicating that the diverse epitopes recognized by these antibodies are not altered in the mutant mucilage. These immunological observations further support the conclusion drawn from the compositional and linkage analyses above that the atgatl5-1 mucilage has not undergone a major change in polysaccharide structure, at least with respect to composition. The data presented above have clearly shown that the atgatl5-1 mutation leads to a discernible reduction in the amount of seed mucilage produced, yet no alterations in mucilage structure could be detected. We then determined whether the size of the mucilage was affected by the AtGATL5 mutation. The water-soluble mucilage was analyzed by high-performance size-exclusion chromatography (HP-SEC) combined with multiple-angle laser light scattering. The elution profiles indicate that most large-Mr polysaccharides in the seed mucilage preparation elute at 13 to 17 min after injection. The detection of the elution profile by both the light-scattering and refractive index concentration detectors is nearly superimposable. From the refractive index detector, there are later-eluting smaller Mr materials (Supplemental Fig. S5). Most likely, these correspond to small sugars, ions, or pigments, since there was no corresponding signal from the light-scattering detector and the extracts separated by HP-SEC were not dialyzed prior to analysis (CITATION). The macromolecular characteristics of the mucilage are listed in Table III. Wild-type and complemented atgatl5-1 mucilage polysaccharides have an average molecular mass of 415 and 527 kD, respectively. In contrast, the atgatl5-1 mucilage has a molecular mass of 678 kD, which is significantly larger than that of wild-type and complemented atgatl5-1 mucilages. Mn, Number-average molar mass; Mw, weight-average Mr; Mw/Mn, polydispersity coefficient; Rw, root mean square radius. Results are averages of three biological replicates. Significance was tested by the Mann-Whitney U test comparing atgatl5-1 with the wild type (*P < 0.05). AtGATL5 belongs to Carbohydrate-Active Enzymes family GT8 (CITATION), several of whose members have been implicated in the synthesis of HG (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), including one functionally characterized GalAT, GAUT1 (CITATION). Thus, we tested whether AtGATL5 functions as a HG:GalAT. Microsomal membranes prepared from N. benthamiana leaves transiently expressing AtGATL5-EYFP were used for the HG:GalAT assay. Results from two independent experiments revealed no significant differences in the activity measured between the control and AtGATL5-EYFP-expressing plants (Supplemental Fig. S6), suggesting that AtGATL5 does not have a HG:GalAT activity comparable to GAUT1. A number of transcription factors have been identified that are associated with mucilage synthesis in the seed coat, including AP2 (CITATION), TTG1 (CITATION), TTG2 (CITATION), GL2 (CITATION), and MYB61 (CITATION). AP2 and a TTG1 protein complex, which includes TTG1, EGL3, TT8, MYB5, and TT2, positively regulate GL2 and TTG2. GL2, in turn, activates transcription of the Rha synthase, MUM4 (CITATION). MYB61, however, appears to regulate mucilage production through an alternative pathway (CITATION). Since TTG1 and AP2 appear to act upstream of other regulators (i.e. GL2 and TTG2), microarray analysis was used to identify genes that are regulated by these two transcription factors. RNA isolated from wild-type, ap2-7, and ttg1-1 siliques at 7 DPA was used to probe Affymetrix ATH1 chips. The microarray identified 264 genes that were down-regulated in the ap2-7 mutant and 52 genes that were down-regulated in the ttg1-1 mutant. The 25 genes that are down-regulated in both ap2-7 and ttg1-1 mutants are listed in Table IV. As expected, MUM4 was one of the genes down-regulated in both mutants. Among those genes coregulated with MUM4 by TTG1 and AP2, AtGATL5 is one of the most strongly down-regulated genes in both ap2-7 and ttg1-1 mutants (Table IV). Quantitative RT-PCR analysis showed a marked decrease in AtGATL5 and MUM4 expression in ap2-7 and ttg1-1 as compared with controls (Fig. 6A). These results validate our microarray experiments. Together, they suggest that, similar to MUM4, AtGATL5 is up-regulated at the time of mucilage synthesis by a pathway that includes both AP2 and the TTG1 transcription factor complex. FC, Fold change: a value of 1 means no change; a fold change of 2 or more means that the expression of the gene was induced in the mutant versus the wild type (i.e. a FC of 2 means that the expression of the gene was doubled in the mutant versus the wild type); a fold change of 0.5 or less means that the gene was repressed in the mutant versus the wild type. [[FIGURE]] To determine if any of the other known transcription factors affecting mucilage production are involved in the regulation of AtGATL5, we performed quantitative RT-PCR using RNA extracted from 7-DPA siliques of the wild type and ttg2-3, gl2, and myb61 mutants. The level of AtGATL5 transcript was reduced dramatically in both ttg2-3 and gl2 mutant siliques compared with wild-type siliques (Fig. 6B), suggesting that, in addition to AP2 and TTG1, both TTG2 and GL2 are required for maximum levels of AtGATL5 expression at the time of mucilage production. AtGATL5 transcript levels were also down-regulated slightly in myb61 siliques compared with the wild type, although not as dramatically as in ttg2-3 and gl2 siliques. These results suggest that there might be some cross talk between the GL2, TTG2, and MYB61 pathways or that AtGATL5 may be located near the bottom of the mucilage synthesis pathway, where these regulatory pathways converge (Fig. 7). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Seeds of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) were sterilized, cold treated for 48 h, and germinated on one-half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium in an environmental chamber under a 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle at 19°C during the light period and 15°C during the dark period. The light intensity was 120 µmol m–2 s–1, and the relative humidity was maintained at 70%. Seedlings were then transferred to soil and grown in greenhouse chambers under the same conditions. Insertion lines for atgatl5 (Salk_106615 and Salk_038363), gl2 (Salk_039825), ttg2-3 (Salk_148838), myb61 (Salk_106556), as well as seeds for ap2-7 (Columbia [Col] ecotype; CITATION) and ttg1-1 (Landsberg erecta [Ler]; CITATION), were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (http://arabidopsis.org). PCR was performed, with primer sequences generated against the genomic regions flanking the insert and a standard primer for the 3′ end of the insertion sequence, to obtain homozygous insertion lines (primers are listed in Supplemental Table S2). A 4.5-kb genomic DNA fragment containing the AtGATL5 gene (including a 2.1-kb 5′ upstream region, the entire exon sequence, and a 1.3-kb 3′ downstream region) were amplified by PCR using a pfx50 DNA polymerase (Invitrogen) with gene-specific primers G5F-PstI and G5R-XbaI (Supplemental Table S2), confirmed by sequencing, and cloned into the vector pCambia1300. The constructs were introduced into the atgatl5-1 mutant by Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation (CITATION). Transgenic plants were selected by growth on nutrient agar containing hygromycin and used for analysis. RNA isolation and analysis of gene expression by quantitative RT-PCR were performed as described previously (CITATION). Actin2 (At3g18780) and Gapc-1 (At3g18780) were used as reference genes. Each reaction was repeated three times using complementary DNAs (cDNAs) generated from independently isolated RNA preparations. Gene-specific primers are listed in Supplemental Table S2. To determine AtGATL5 transcript levels in the homozygous mutant lines, total RNAs were isolated from 7-DPA siliques of the wild type and homozygous atgatl5-1 mutant lines, and RT-PCR was performed as described previously (CITATION). The protocol performed here is a modification of that described previously (CITATION). To generate digoxigenin-labeled probes, a 292-bp fragment of AtGATL5 cDNA was first subcloned into the pGM-T (Tiangen) vector using primers GATL5-Probe-F and GATL5-Probe-R (Supplemental Table S2). The DNA fragment between the Sp6 and T7 primer sequences in the construct was then amplified by PCR. Digoxigenin-labeled sense and antisense RNA probes were prepared using an in vitro transcription kit (Roche). Wild-type Arabidopsis seeds were fixed in formaldehyde:acetic acid:water (90:5:5, v/v/v) solution overnight under vacuum at 4°C and then embedded in paraffin after dehydration in a graded ethanol series of 25%, 50%, 75%, 95% (v/v), and 100%. The tissue was incubated for 1 h at room temperature in each step, and the final incubation in 100% ethanol was repeated three times. Sections (8 µm) were cut on a rotary RM 6025 microtome (Leica Microsystems), mounted onto Superfrost Plus glass slides (Thermo Fisher), and hybridized with the digoxigenin-labeled AtGATL5 antisense and sense RNA probes. The hybridization signals were detected by incubating with alkaline phosphatase-conjugated antibodies against digoxigenin and subsequent color development with alkaline phosphatase substrates. The images were collected with an Olympus X51 light microscope and processed with Photoshop version 7.0 (Adobe Systems). For each sample, three biological replicates were prepared. RNA was extracted from 20 siliques at 4 and 7 DPA using the RNeasy Plant Maxi Kit (Qiagen) according to the manufacturer’s protocol with the following modification: ground samples were initially resuspended in 26.8 mL of RLT-PVP-40-β buffer (23.9 mL of RLT plus 2.6 mL of 10% [w/v] polyvinylpyrrolidone-40 and 0.3 mL of β-mercaptoethanol). The quality of the RNA was determined using the 2100 Bioanalyzer (Agilent Technologies). Microarray analysis was performed using the GeneChip Arabidopsis ATH1 Genome Array (Affymetrix). Standard RNA processing, hybridization, and scanning protocols were followed as recommended by the GeneChip Expression Analysis Technical Manual (Affymetrix). Hybridization and scanning were performed at the McGill University Cell Imaging and Analysis Network facility. The robust multiarray average procedure (CITATION) was performed to normalize data using the AffylmGUI R software package from Bioconductor (http://www.bioconductor.org/; CITATION). Analysis of differential expression was done using a moderated Student’s t test with empirical Bayes smoothing (CITATION). A cutoff of 2-fold change and P < 0.05 were adopted to identify the differentially expressed genes. The seed coat expression pattern of the AtGATL5 gene was studied using the GUS reporter gene as described previously (CITATION). For sections, developing siliques were fixed in 2.5% (v/v) glutaraldehyde buffered with 0.05 m phosphate buffer (pH 6.8) at 4°C for 24 h. After fixation, the tissues were dehydrated using an ethanol series and embedded in LR White resin (Ted Pella) as described (CITATION). Sections (1 µm thick) were cut using an Ultracut E ultramicrotome (Reichert-Jung) and stained with 0.1% (w/v) toluidine blue solution for light microscopy, carried out on an Eclipse80i microscope (Nikon). Images were captured with a Nikon DS-Ril camera head using NIS-Elements Basic Research software, and images were assembled using Adobe Photoshop 7.0. Immunogold labeling was done as described previously (CITATION). In brief, 85-nm-thick sections were incubated with the CCRC-M38 antibody and then with gold-conjugated goat anti-mouse IgG (18 nm; Jackson ImmunoResearch Laboratories). The gold-conjugated secondary antibody was used at a dilution of 1:10 (v/v). The immunogold-labeled sections were visualized with an EM 902A transmission electron microscope (Carl Zeiss). The AtGATL5 cDNA was PCR amplified, confirmed by sequencing, and then fused in frame with an EYFP gene under the control of the 35S promoter in a pCAMBIA-based binary vector to generate the fusion construct Pro-35S:AtGATL5-EYFP. Primers used are listed in Supplemental Table S2. The Pro-35S:AtGATL5-EYFP construct was introduced into wild-type Arabidopsis plants by A. tumefaciens-mediated transformation. Transgenic plants were selected on one-half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium with 15 mg L−1 hygromycin, and the T2 progeny were used for EYFP localization. The EYFP signals from roots of 3-d-old transgenic seedlings were viewed with a TCs SP2 spectral confocal microscope (Leica Microsystems). Images were saved and processed with Adobe Photoshop version 7.0. The colocalization of fluorescent protein-tagged AtGATL5 with the Golgi and ER markers was carried out in Nicotiana benthamiana leaf cells as described (CITATION). In brief, the Pro-35S:AtGATL5-EYFP construct was individually cotransformed into fully expanded leaf of N. benthamiana plants (approximately 8-week-old seedlings grown at 22°C) together with constructs encoding either the ECFP-tagged Golgi marker (Gmct-ECFP) or the ECFP-tagged ER marker (ECFP-WAK2-HDEL). At 3 or 4 d post infection, the transfected leaf in the injected area was cut and subsequently examined for yellow and cyan fluorescent signals using a Leica TCs SP2 confocal microscope. Ruthenium red staining of seeds was performed by placing the seeds in a 0.01% (w/v) ruthenium red solution and shaking them for 10 min. Seeds were removed from the imbibition solution and observed with a stereoscopic microscope (Olympus SZH-ILLD). Calcofluor white staining was performed by staining seeds for 5 min in 1 mg mL−1 calcofluor white in 2 mm sodium hydroxide, followed by two rinses in deionized water. Seeds were examined using a Leica DM6000B epifluorescence microscope with UV illumination, and images were captured with a Qimaging Retiga CCD camera operated through Openlab. Dry mature seeds were mounted on stubs, coated with gold, and observed using a Zeiss 1450EP scanning electron microscope at an accelerating voltage of 20 kV. Glycome profiling by ELISA was performed as described (CITATION). Monoclonal antibodies were obtained as hybridoma cell culture supernatants from laboratory stocks (CCRC series and JIM series antibodies are available from CarboSource [http://www.carbosource/net]). Detailed information about all monoclonal antibodies included in this study can be found at WallMabDB (http://www.wallmabdb.net), an online database that provides information about the immunogens used to develop the antibodies, their isotype, the cell wall polysaccharide class they primarily recognize, and detailed epitope information where available (CITATION). Whole-seed immunolabeling was conducted as described (CITATION). Total mucilage for monosaccharide composition analysis was extracted from mature seeds (approximately 5 mg) by shaking them in distilled water or in water containing 0.01 mg mL−1 rhamnogalacturonan hydrolase (Novozymes) for 6 h at room temperature (20°C); 50 µg of inositol was added as an internal standard. Ruthenium red staining was performed to check that total mucilage was released from the seeds. Insoluble material was removed by centrifugation, and the supernatant containing the released mucilage material was lyophilized. The GalA and Rha content was determined using trimethyl silyl ethers of methyl glycosides as described by CITATION, and other neutral sugar content was determined using the alditol acetate method as described by CITATION. All analyses were carried out on three independently extracted mucilage preparations. Statistical analysis was performed using Student’s t test. Mucilage used for linkage analysis was extracted by shaking intact seeds in distilled water for 5 h. The supernatant containing the released mucilage material was frozen and lyophilyzed. For linkage analysis, the sample was permethylated, depolymerized, reduced, and acetylated; the resultant partially methylated alditol acetates were analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry as described (CITATION). Initially, an aliquot of the sample after dialysis was suspended in about 200 µL of dimethyl sulfoxide and placed on a magnetic stirrer for 2 d. A total of 0.6 mL of potassium dimsylate (3.6 m) was added to each sample. After 7 h at room temperature on the stirrer, the reaction mixture was cooled to 0°C, excess methyl iodide (0.7 mL) was added, and the tube was sealed. The incubation was then continued overnight at room temperature. After workup, the permethylated samples were reduced by superdeuteride. Following the workup after reduction, the samples were then repermethylated by treatment with sodium hydroxide and methyl iodide in dry dimethyl sulfoxide (CITATION). The permethylated material was hydrolyzed using 2 m trifluoroacetic acid (2 h in sealed tube at 121°C), reduced with NaBD4, and acetylated using acetic anhydride/trifluoroacetic acid. The resulting partially methylated alditol acetates were analyzed on a HP 5890 gas chromatograph interfaced to a 5970 mass selective detector (electron impact ionization mode); separation was performed on a 30m Supelco 2330 bonded phase fused silica capillary column. N. benthamiana leaves infiltrated with either Pro-35S:AtGATL5-EYFP or EYFP vector were harvested on day 3 after infiltration. Tissues were ground in homogenization buffer containing 50 mm HEPES-KOH, pH 7.3, 0.25 mm MnCl2, 25 mm KCl, 50% (v/v) glycerol, 0.1% (v/v) β-mercaptoethanol, and protease inhibitors (Roche Complete protease inhibitor tablets). The homogenate was filtered through two layers of Miracloth and centrifuged at 3,000g for 10 min, and then the supernatant was centrifuged at 280,000g for 1 h. The pellet was resuspended in the homogenization buffer that contained 25% (v/v) glycerol. Microsomal protein was quantified using the Protein Assay (Bio-Rad). HG:GalAT activity was measured essentially as described (CITATION) in 30-μL reactions containing 50 μg of microsomes, 50 mm HEPES, pH 7.3, 0.2 m Suc, 0.05% (w/v) bovine serum albumin, 25 mm KCl, 80 μg of oligogalacturonide mixture (DP 7-23), 6.9 μm UDP-[14C]GalA (specific activity, 180.3 mCi mmol−1; 1 Ci = 37 GBq), 1.25 mm MnCl2, and 0.5% (v/v) Triton X-100. Reactions were incubated for 3 h at 30°C and terminated by the addition of 5 μL of 400 mm NaOH. Reaction products were measured using a filter assay method (CITATION). The HP-SEC multiple-angle laser light scattering system consisted of a Waters P515 pump with an in-line degasser (Waters) and in-line filters of 0.2 and 0.1 μm. The solvent used for separation was 100 mm sodium nitrate and 10 mm phosphate buffer. Columns used were guard and separating columns of PL-Aquagel-OH linear mix (8-µm pore size; Polymer Laboratories). Samples were filtered through disposable syringe filters (0.45 μm, PES w/GMF; Whatman) before injection. Samples were injected with a 50-μL loop in a Spectrasystem autosampler. Two detectors were present in line, an 18-angle light-scattering detector and a refractive index detector (Wyatt Technologies). Data for molar mass determinations were analyzed using Astra software version 4.74.03 (Wyatt Technologies) taking the differential index of refraction as 0.146 (CITATION). Chromatograms presented are representative of three independent replications. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession number NM_202015. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Pro35S:AtGATL5-EYFP complements the phenotypes of atgatl5-1. Supplemental Figure S2. Expression profile of AtGATL5. Supplemental Figure S3. Ruthenium red staining of wild-type seeds after mucilage extraction. Supplemental Figure S4. ELISAs of water-extracted mucilage from wild-type and atgatl5-1 seeds using plant glycan-directed monoclonal antibodies. Supplemental Figure S5. Size exclusion chromatography of the water-extracted mucilage from wild-type, atgatl5-1, and complemented atgatl5-1 seeds. Supplemental Figure S6. HG:GalAT assay of microsomal proteins from N. benthamiana transformed with Pro35S:AtGATL5-EYFP. Supplemental Table S1. Monosaccharide composition of water-extractable mucilage from wild-type and atgatl5-1 seeds. Supplemental Table S2. Primers used in this study.
