!~ABS~! Purine nucleotide catabolism is common to most organisms and involves a guanine deaminase to convert guanine to xanthine in animals, invertebrates, and microorganisms. Using metabolomic analysis of mutants, we demonstrate that Arabidopsis thaliana uses an alternative catabolic route employing a highly specific guanosine deaminase (GSDA) not reported from any organism so far. The enzyme is ubiquitously expressed and deaminates exclusively guanosine and 2’-deoxyguanosine but no other aminated purines, pyrimidines, or pterines. GSDA belongs to the cytidine/deoxycytidylate deaminase family of proteins together with a deaminase involved in riboflavin biosynthesis, the chloroplastic tRNA adenosine deaminase Arg and a predicted tRNA-specific adenosine deaminase 2 in A. thaliana. GSDA is conserved in plants, including the moss Physcomitrella patens, but is absent in the algae and outside the plant kingdom. Our data show that xanthosine is exclusively generated through the deamination of guanosine by GSDA in A. thaliana, excluding other possible sources like the dephosphorylation of xanthosine monophosphate. Like the nucleoside hydrolases NUCLEOSIDE HYDROLASE1 (NSH1) and NSH2, GSDA is located in the cytosol, indicating that GMP catabolism to xanthine proceeds in a mostly cytosolic pathway via guanosine and xanthosine. Possible implications for the biosynthetic route of purine alkaloids (caffeine and theobromine) and ureides in other plants are discussed.
!~RES~! Based on the working hypothesis that plants, like many other organismal classes, might possess a GDA, we searched the Arabidopsis protein database at The Arabidopsis Information Resource using BLASTP for putative orthologs to GDA from E. coli or to the evolutionary unrelated GDA from B. subtilis. Proteins with significant similarity to GDA from E. coli were not found, whereas five proteins with similarity (U.S. National Center for Biotechnology Information BLAST E-values < 0.001) to GDA from B. subtilis were identified. These are encoded by the loci At5g28050, At1g68720, At3g05300, At1g48175, and At4g20960 (in order of decreasing similarity). Some of these could be excluded as GDA candidate loci because they were already functionally characterized: The locus At4g20960 was previously shown to code for a deaminase involved in riboflavin biosynthesis (CITATION), and At1g68720 codes for the chloroplastic tRNA adenosine deaminase Arg (CITATION; CITATION). The locus At1g48175 encodes an uncharacterized protein that is highly conserved in plants. The A. thaliana protein has 43% identity (60% similarity) to a human protein with known crystal structure (Protein Data Bank accession number 3DH1), which by sequence and structure resembles tRNA-specific ADENOSINE DEAMINASE2 (ADAT2). In yeast, this enzyme catalyzes the adenosine-to-inosine editing of the anticodon loop of several tRNAs and is essential for survival (CITATION). Consistent with this, a mutation in the putative A. thaliana ortholog is embryo lethal (http://www.seedgenes.org; profile EMB2191). We concluded that locus At1g48175 likely codes for ADAT2 in A. thaliana. Locus At3g05300 is conserved only in a small group of Brassicaceae (sequence information is available for Arabidopsis lyrata, Capsella rubella, Brassica rapa, and Raphanus raphanistrum). Whereas in B. rapa and R. raphanistrum this gene is expressed (based on EST data), there is no evidence for a transcript from At5g05300 in A. thaliana. Additionally, the reading frame seems truncated in A. thaliana attributable to a base deletion (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). We conclude that At3g05300 likely represents a pseudogene. The protein encoded at locus At5g28050 possesses the highest overall similarity to GDA from B. subtilis (44%). Several residues are conserved that are important for substrate interaction deduced from the crystal structure analysis of the B. subtilis enzyme (CITATION; see Supplemental Figure 2 online). A cDNA for this plant GDA candidate was cloned engineering a StrepII-tag coding sequence to the 5′ end. N-terminal tagging was chosen because a Tyr residue at the C terminus of the enzyme may be important for substrate binding (see Supplemental Figure 2 online) and would be masked by a tag. Transient expression in Nicotiana benthamiana and affinity purification resulted in highly purified protein for biochemical analyses. The identity of the protein was confirmed by immunoblot using antiserum raised against the candidate protein (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). The activity of the enzyme was assessed using a range of nucleotides, nucleosides, and nucleobases as well as pterines, all possessing amino group substitutions on the respective rings. To our surprise, the enzyme deaminated exclusively guanosine at a high rate (Figure 1A) and showed no or very low activity with all other tested substrates, including guanine. Further enzymatic assays revealed that 2’-deoxyguanosine also is a substrate. We conclude that we identified a (2’-deoxy) GSDA. Kinetic measurements for both substrates were performed (Figures 1B and 1C). Michaelis-Menten constants of 264.0 ± 58.2 µM (confidence interval, P = 95%) and 576.1 ± 217 µM (confidence interval, P = 95%) and turnover numbers of 1.753 s−1 and 0.611 s−1 were determined for guanosine and 2’-deoxyguanosine, respectively, resulting in catalytic efficiencies of 6642.09 (s M)−1 and 1061.26 (s M)−1. A group of 23 compounds was tested as potential inhibitors or activators of the enzyme (see Supplemental Table 1 online) but none had an influence on the activity. [[FIGURE]] To assess if GSDA plays a role in the catabolism of guanosine in vivo, two T-DNA insertion mutants were isolated from the SAIL (CITATION) and GABI-Kat (CITATION) collections (Figure 2A). In homozygous lines of SAIL_305B08 (gsda-1) and GK_432D08 (gsda-2), GSDA-specific transcript and GSDA protein were absent (Figures 2B and 2C). Growth and development of both mutants resembled the wild type. In seeds of both mutants, guanosine accumulated, while such accumulation was not observed in the wild type (Figure 2D, first three panels). 2’-Deoxyguanosine was not detected in the mutants, indicating that this compound is of minor significance in vivo. The identity of peaks observed in HPLC traces was confirmed by (1) the retention time of corresponding standards, (2) diode array spectra of compounds, and (3) offline mass spectrometry of compounds collected during HPLC runs (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). The introduction of transgenes resulting in the expression of N-terminally StrepII- or yellow fluorescent protein (YFP)–tagged GSDA into the gsda-2 mutant background prevented guanosine accumulation in seeds (Figure 2D, panels 4 and 5). The accumulation of guanosine in gsda mutants was also observed in leaves, roots, and siliques (Figure 3) and increased with plant age (see Supplemental Figure 5 online). In the wild type, guanosine was not detected in any of the investigated tissues. Together, these data unambiguously link guanosine degradation in vivo to GSDA. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] It was recently reported that mutation of NSH1 (formerly URH1) of A. thaliana leads to accumulation of xanthosine and uridine in this plant because the enzyme is required for the hydrolysis of both compounds in vivo (CITATION; CITATION). We crossed plants carrying the published nsh1-1 allele (SALK_083120) with plants possessing the gsda-2 allele to assess the contribution of GSDA to the xanthosine pool in vivo. As previously reported, the nsh1 mutant accumulated xanthosine and uridine in seeds but also in leaves and roots (Figures 2D, panel 6, and 3A). In the double mutant, the accumulation of xanthosine was prevented completely, and high guanosine concentrations were observed instead, irrespective of tissue (Figures 2D, panel 7, and 3A). Identical results were obtained when a second unpublished nsh1 allele (SM_3.39680 from the John Innes Centre SM collection; called nsh1-2) was crossed with gsda-2 mutants and metabolite profiles of seeds were analyzed (see Supplemental Figure 6 online). We conclude that the only source of xanthosine in vivo is the deamination of guanosine by GSDA. Other possible sources like the dephosphorylation of XMP or the oxidation of inosine do not contribute significantly to the xanthosine pool in vivo. Furthermore, the lack of GSDA in the mutant cannot be compensated for by any other enzyme, although ample guanosine is available as substrate in this genetic background. This demonstrates that the locus At3g05300, which likely represents a pseudogene according to our in silico analysis (see Supplemental Figures 1 and 2 online), can indeed not give rise to a functional GSDA enzyme. Fusion proteins of GSDA with YFP at the N terminus (YFP-GSDA) located to the cytosol after transient expression in leaves of N. benthamiana and in A. thaliana protoplasts generated from stable transgenic lines (in gsda-2 mutant background). The stability of the transgene was demonstrated by immunoblot developed with an anti–green fluorescent protein (GFP) antibody (Figure 4). The tag probably masked any potential N-terminal localization peptide, but unfortunately all of our attempts to express a C-terminally tagged GSDA fusion protein failed. Nonetheless, the location of GSDA is very likely cytosolic because (1) YFP-GSDA is functional in vivo as it prevents the accumulation of guanosine when introduced into the gsda-2 mutant background (Figure 2D, panel 5), (2) the enzyme was found in the cytosolic fraction in a proteomic study (CITATION), (3) most in silico tools predict cytosolic location (SUBA3 database at http://suba.plantenergy.uwa.edu.au), and (4) the downstream enzymes NSH1 and xanthine dehydrogenase are located in the cytosol as well (CITATION; CITATION). Integrating published information and our data, we conclude that the reactions of purine catabolism from guanosine to uric acid via xanthosine and xanthine catalyzed by GSDA, NSH1/NSH2, and xanthine dehydrogenase are located in the cytosol. Uric acid is then imported into the peroxisome for further degradation (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] GSDA is ubiquitously expressed in A. thaliana because the protein is detected in all investigated tissues and guanosine accumulates in the respective tissues in the gsda mutant (Figure 3). Additionally, plant lines carrying a transgene with a 1000-bp genomic fragment upstream of the GSDA start codon fused to β-glucuronidase (GUS) showed ubiquitous blue staining (see Supplemental Figure 7 online). GSDA transcript is well detected in all tissues and cell types according to microarray data (for example, see the eFP browser at http://bar.utoronto.ca/efp/cgi-bin/efpWeb.cgi). We conclude that GSDA is ubiquitously expressed in A. thaliana consistent with its role in a primary metabolic pathway. Orthologs to GSDA are found in each plant genome sequenced to date, mostly in single copy, but not in the green algae. Similarities between plant sequences are high even in taxonomically distant species (see Supplemental Figure 8 online), for example, 94.1% between GSDA from A. thaliana and the ortholog from rice encoded at the locus Os03g61810. A sequence comparison of plant GSDAs with bacterial GDAs reveals that residues required for deamination in the cytidine/deoxycytidylate deaminase superfamily are conserved in both groups and that all residues required for substrate binding deduced from the crystal structure of GDA of B. subtilis (CITATION) are conserved between GSDAs and GDAs, with the notable exception of a Trp at position 92 in GDA, which is exchanged for Leu in plant GSDAs (see Supplemental Figure 8 online). These sequence hallmarks make it easy to discern GSDA from other similar proteins of the cytidine/deoxycytidylate deaminase family encoded in plant genomes (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). The location of Trp-92 in the active site of GDA from B. subtilis precludes the binding of guanosine by clashing with the Rib moiety (CITATION). We speculated that the presence of Leu instead of Trp in GSDA might allow the binding of guanosine in the active site. This hypothesis was tested by exchanging Leu-119 of GSDA from A. thaliana for Trp or by altering the whole HLS motif (residues 118 to 120) to YWA found in the B. subtilis GDA enzyme. The variant enzymes lost enzymatic activity with guanosine but also did not display any activity with guanine. The reverse exchanges in GDA of B. subtilis (Trp-92 to Leu or YWA motif to HLS) also abolished all enzymatic activity (see Supplemental Figure 9 online). We conclude that Leu-119 and Trp-92 have functional relevance for GSDA and GDA, respectively, but their exchange alone or within their respective sequence contexts is not sufficient to change substrate specificity of these enzymes. Nonetheless, when Trp (at an equivalent position to Trp-92) is present in a GDA/GSDA subfamily protein, then the respective enzyme will likely catalyze guanine and not guanosine deamination. Based on this assumption, GSDA does not occur outside the plant kingdom because Trp-92 is highly conserved in nonplant GDA/GSDA subfamily proteins. This includes proteins of eukaryotic origin from nematodes (for example Caenorhabditis elegans) and red algae (for example Galdieria sulphuraria; see Supplemental Figure 8 online), which contain Trp-92 and are overall more similar to GDA than GSDA. These conclusions are backed up by a phylogenetic analysis clearly separating the GDA and GSDA subfamilies and assigning the C. elegans and G. sulphuraria sequences to the GDA group (Figure 5). Up to now, GDA of the cytidine/deoxycytidylate deaminase type has been documented only in prokaryotes (CITATION). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! T-DNA mutants of Arabidopsis thaliana from the SALK collection (SALK_083120, nsh1-1; CITATION) and the SAIL collection (SAIL305B08, gsda-2; CITATION) as well as an En/Spm transposon line (SM3-39680, nsh1-2) from the John Innes Centre SM collection (CITATION) were ordered from the European Arabidopsis Stock Centre. A GABI-Kat T-DNA mutant (GK432D08, gsda-1; CITATION) was received from the GABI-Kat mutant collection at the Max-Planck-Institute for Plant Breeding Research. Plants were cultivated as described by CITATION for the isolation of homozygous mutants (employing primers listed in Supplemental Table 2 online) and for metabolite analyses. Double mutants were obtained by crossing gsda-2 and nsh1-1 as well as nsh1-2 and gsda-2 mutants (pollen donor named last, respectively). To isolate mesophyll protoplasts, plants were grown on Jiffy7 soil in a controlled growth chamber with a short photoperiod (8 h light, 20°C day, 18°C night, and 60% relative humidity). Nicotiana benthamiana was grown and transgenic A. thaliana generated as described by CITATION. Transient expression in N. benthamiana was performed as described by CITATION. For confocal microscopy, YFP-AtGSDA and β-UP-CFP (for β-ureidopropionase–cyan fluorescent protein) were coexpressed by mixing the respective transgenic Agrobacterium tumefaciens strains and agrobacteria expressing the p19 silencing inhibitor from tomato bushy stunt virus. To determine the gene-specific transcript level in the gsda mutants in comparison to the wild type, seedlings of the corresponding lines were harvested and pooled. RNA was prepared using TRIsure reagent (Bioline) and treated with RNase-free DNase (Fermentas) following the manufacturers’ instructions. The reverse transcription was performed using 600 ng of total RNA and the SuperscriptIII SuperMix (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer’s protocol. In a final volume of 10 µL, quantitative real-time PCR analysis was performed referring to the instructions of Power SYBR Green PCR Master Mix (Applied Biosystems) using the CFX96 system (Bio-Rad). Specificity of the amplification reactions was assessed using postamplification dissociation curves. UBIQUITIN10 was used as reference gene for quantification of gene expression and amplified using primers 2535 + 2536. Primers N0342 + N0343 were used for gsda-2 and N0346 + N0347 for gsda-1. Both pairs are flanking the corresponding insertion. For cloning of the GSDA coding sequence, cDNA from seedlings was prepared as described above. GSDA was amplified by PCR using primers 1899 and 1900, introducing an NcoI and a BamHI site and cloned into pXNS2pat-Strep (CITATION) and pET30a (Novagen). The latter plasmid served for expression of GSDA in Escherichia coli to produce protein for antibody production. To generate a binary vector that allows for the expression of fusion proteins containing an N-terminal YFP tag, eYFP was amplified from pXCS-YFP (CITATION) using primers 2209 + 2210, introducing a SacI and SfoI site. The fragment replaced the StrepII-tag in pXNS2pat-Strep, resulting in the new vector pXNS2pat-YFP (accession number KF499077). GSDA was cloned into this vector via NcoI and BamHI. For colocalization, the cDNA of cytosolic β-UP (At5g64370) was amplified using primers 1237 + 1239, introducing an XmaI and an EcoRI site and cloned into pXCS-CFP (CITATION). From genomic DNA of A. thaliana (Col-0), a fragment of 1147 bp upstream of the GSDA start codon (putative promoter) was amplified using primers 2211 + 2212, introducing an AscI and an MfeI site. The product was inserted into pI2-pCPK28-GUS-mcs2 (CITATION), releasing the promoter of CPK28 (pCPK28) and generating the construct pI2-pGSDA-GUS-mcs2. GDA from Bacillus subtilis was amplified from DNA using primers 2175 + 2176, introducing an NdeI and a BamHI site and cloned into pXNS1pat-Strep (CITATION). Site-directed mutagenesis of GSDA was performed with primers (1) N0133 + N1034 and (2) N0135 + N0136 using GSDA in pXNS2pat-Strep as template. For GDA from B. subtilis, primers (3) N0138 + N0139 and (4) N0140 + N0141 were used for PCR with GDA in pXNS1pat-Strep as template. PCRs were performed following the QuikChange site-directed mutagenesis protocol (Stratagene). StrepII-GSDA was affinity purified after transient expression in N. benthamiana as described by CITATION. To determine the substrate specificity of GSDA, different potential substrates (see Supplemental Table 1 online) were used. All substrates were prepared as 2 mM solution in wash buffer (100 mM HEPES, pH 8.0, 100 mM NaCl, 0.5 mM EDTA, and 0.005% Triton X-100). For each reaction, 25 μL of the respective substrate solution and 10 μL of wash buffer were mixed and preincubated at 40°C. The reaction was started after 3 min by the addition of 15 μL of enzyme solution. In a time course, samples of 10 μL were taken and added to 90 μL of water, followed by 25 μL of phenol nitroprusside reagent and 50 μL of hypochlorite reagent for colorimetric ammonia quantification (CITATION). Ammonium standard curves were prepared by adding elution buffer instead of enzyme solution and then diluting in NH4Cl solutions of different concentrations instead of water prior to detection. The kinetic constants were determined at final concentrations of 0.1, 0.2, 0.5, 1.0, and 4.0 mM of guanosine (five repeated measurements) or of 0.12, 0.24, 0.48, 1.2, and 7.0 mM of 2’-deoxyguanosine (four repeated measurements). To screen for potential effectors 20 μL of guanosine solution (0.75 mM in wash buffer) was mixed with 15 μL of the respective effector solution (1 mM in wash buffer; see Supplemental Table 1 online) and the reaction started with 15 μL of protein solution as described above. For the analysis of the GSDA activity in comparison to GDA from B. subtilis and mutagenized versions of both proteins, 25 μL of a guanosine or guanine solution (2 mM in wash buffer) were preincubated for 3 min at 40°C and the reaction started by addition of 25 μL of the corresponding enzyme solution. Sampling and detection were performed in a time course as described above. Purified protein was quantified using the NanoOrange kit from Invitrogen as described by CITATION. Roots, leaves, and siliques were ground in liquid nitrogen using a mortar. Frozen aliquots of 100 mg were passed into 1.5-mL microcentrifuge tubes, and 300 μL of cold 0.5 M HClO4 was added followed by grinding with a rotating pestle. Samples were incubated on ice for 10 min and centrifuged (10 min, 20,000g, 4°C) and the supernatant mixed with 15 μL of alkaline potassium carbonate solution (5 M KOH and 2 M K2CO3) to precipitate the perchlorate. After incubation for 5 min on ice, samples were centrifuged (15 min, 20,000g, 4°C), and supernatants were frozen in liquid nitrogen, thawed, centrifuged again as before, and new supernatants transferred to HPLC sample vials. Seed extraction was performed by grinding 5 mg of material in 100 μL of HClO4with a rotating pestle. The supernatant was removed and the extraction repeated. Both supernatants were incubated on ice for 10 min and centrifuged (15 min, 20,000g, 4°C) before they were pooled and mixed with 10 μL of alkaline potassium carbonate solution. All subsequent steps were performed as described above. Standards were treated identically to samples to account for losses and interferences. HPLC analyses were performed using an Agilent 1200 SL system equipped with a diode array detector using an ion pairing reversed phase chromatography method. Samples (20-μL injection volume) were separated on a Polaris 5 C18 A 150 × 4.6-mm column at 25°C using a flow rate of 0.64 mL min−1 according to application note 5991-2058EN from Agilent, with several modifications. Mobile phase A consisted of 10 mM tetrabutylammonium hydroxide and 10 mM ammonium acetate, pH 6.5, to make it compatible with mass spectrometry analyses. Mobile phase B consisted of 10 mM tetrabutylammonium hydroxide in methanol. The elution started with 4% mobile phase B. At the break points 2.5, 4, 6, 7, 12, 15, 20, 20.1, and 24 min, the percentage of B was 4, 10, 10, 20, 40, 100, 100, 4, and 4, respectively. Quantification was performed using Agilent Chemstation employing standard solutions of guanosine, xanthosine, and uridine of 50, 100, 200, and 400 µM. For offline mass spectrometry analysis, the substances were collected in a peak-based manner (defined by threshold and slope). Mass spectrometry analysis was performed on an Agilent 6210 electrospray ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometer using a flow rate of 4 μL min−1 and an electrospray voltage of 4 kV. The desolvation gas was set to 15 p.s.i. (1 bar). All other parameters were optimized for maximum abundance of each [M+H]+. SDS gel electrophoresis, immunoblotting for the detection of StrepII-tagged proteins, as well as Coomassie Brilliant Blue and silver staining were performed according to CITATION. YFP-GSDA was detected using an anti-GFP antibody (Roche; dilution 1:1000) and a goat anti-mouse IgG alkaline phosphatase conjugate (Sigma-Aldrich; dilution 1:30,000). GSDA was detected with the generated polyclonal rabbit anti-GSDA antiserum (see Supplemental Methods 1 online; diluted 1:2500 for purified protein; diluted 1:500 for detection in plant extracts) and a mouse anti-rabbit IgG alkaline phosphatase conjugate (Sigma-Aldrich; dilution 1:10,000). A. thaliana protoplasts were obtained according to CITATION. For subcellular localization, mesophyll protoplasts from A. thaliana expressing YFP-GSDA as well as N. benthamiana leaves transiently coexpressing YFP-GSDA and β-UP-CFP were analyzed using a Leica True Confocal Scanner SP5 microscope equipped with an HCX PL APO 63.0x1.20 UV water immersion objective. YFP, chlorophyll autofluorescence, and CFP were detected using 514-, 488-, and 458-nm excitation wavelengths and 520- to 550-, 710- to 800-, and 465- to 495-nm emission wavelengths, respectively. Acquired images were processed using the Leica Microsystems Leica Application Suite Advanced Fluorescence software and Adobe Photoshop CS6. Staining for GUS activity was performed according to CITATION. Statistical analyses and the determination of kinetic constants were performed with the GraphPad Prism software package. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under the following accession numbers: At5g28050, GSDA; At1g05620, NSH1; At2g36310, NSH2; At4g34890, xanthine dehydrogenase; At1g68720, chloroplastic A-to-I tRNA editing enzyme; At3g05300, GSDA pseudogene; At1g48175, putative tRNA-specific adenosine deaminase 2; At4g20960, 2,5-diamino-6-ribosylamino-4(3H)-pyrimidinone 5-phosphate deaminase; At5g64370, β-UP; must be: GDA from E. coli, Uniprot accession P76641; and must be: GDA from B. subtilis, Uniprot accession O34598. Sequence data for the described vector pXNS2pat-YFP can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession number KF499077. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Comparison of the Genomic Sequence at Locus At3g05300 of A. thaliana to the Corresponding Region in the Brassica napus Genome. Supplemental Figure 2. Multiple Sequence Alignment of Guanine Deaminase from B. subtilis with Putative Orthologs from A. thaliana. Supplemental Figure 3. Documentation of Strep-GSDA Affinity Purification after Transient Expression in N. benthamiana. Supplemental Figure 4. Offline ESI-MS-MS Analysis of Guanosine, Xanthosine, and Uridine Peaks. Supplemental Figure 5. Guanosine Accumulation during Development. Supplemental Figure 6. Seed Metabolite Analysis of Mutants. Supplemental Figure 7. Promoter GUS Activity Analysis. Supplemental Figure 8. Multiple Sequence Alignment of GSDA and GDA Protein Sequences. Supplemental Figure 9. Analysis of GSDA and GDA Active Site Mutants. Supplemental Table 1. Compounds Tested as Substrates or as Potential Effectors. Supplemental Table 2. Primers Used in This Study. Supplemental Methods 1. Generation of Antiserum against GSDA. Supplemental Data Set 1. Multiple Protein Alignment Shown in Supplemental Figure 8 in Phylip 3.0 Format.
