!~ABS~! All cells produce reactive oxygen species (ROS) as by-products of their metabolism. In addition to being cytotoxic, ROS act as regulators of a wide range of developmental and physiological processes. Little is known about the molecular mechanisms underlying the perception of ROS and initiation of cellular responses in eukaryotes. Using the unicellular green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, we developed a genetic screen for early components of singlet oxygen signaling. Here, we report the identification of a small zinc finger protein, METHYLENE BLUE SENSITIVITY (MBS), that is required for induction of singlet oxygen–dependent gene expression and, upon oxidative stress, accumulates in distinct granules in the cytosol. Loss-of-function mbs mutants produce singlet oxygen but are unable to fully respond to it at the level of gene expression. Knockout or knockdown of the homologous genes in the higher plant model Arabidopsis thaliana results in mutants that are hypersensitive to photooxidative stress, whereas overexpression produces plants with elevated stress tolerance. Together, our data indicate an important and evolutionarily conserved role of the MBS protein in ROS signaling and provide a strategy for engineering stress-tolerant plants.
!~RES~! We previously reported that a codon-optimized version of the luciferase gene from the copepod Gaussia princeps provides a sensitive reporter of gene expression in the unicellular model alga C. reinhardtii (CITATION). The availability of a sensitive reporter gene has opened up the possibility to exploit the convenience of C. reinhardtii genetics for the isolation of regulators of gene expression by forward genetics. This provides a particularly attractive alternative to higher plant models, where complex multicellular organization makes mutant screens difficult or impossible. Light stress–induced ROS signaling is a case in point because the primary responses are largely confined to photosynthetically active tissues and therefore affect only a small number of the many cell types present in higher plants. We used the codon-optimized G. princeps luciferase gene in combination with the 1O2-responsive PHSP70A promoter (CITATION) to set up a genetic screen for mutants defective in 1O2 sensing and/or signaling (Figure 1A). To this end, an algal strain harboring the PHSP70A-driven reporter cassette was subjected to large-scale insertional mutagenesis based on random insertion of a hygromycin resistance gene cassette (CITATION; Figure 1A). A total of 4890 insertion mutants were generated by transformation and screened for their inability to induce luciferase expression in response to 1O2 stress. 1O2 stress was applied by exposure of algal cultures to methylene blue (MB), a photosensitizer that is readily taken up by C. reinhardtii cells and triggers the production of 1O2 in the light (CITATION). Seventeen mutants were identified that lacked luciferase induction upon application of 1O2 stress (Figure 1B). To distinguish between mutants that are specifically defective in their response to 1O2 and mutants with general defects in expression of the luciferase reporter, heat stress experiments were performed. The HSP70A promoter driving the luciferase reporter is not only responsive to 1O2, but it is also strongly inducible by heat shock. As the heat response is genetically distinct from the response to 1O2 (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), any mutant specifically affected in 1O2 responses should still show wild-type-like luciferase induction by heat. This was the case for 12 of the algal mutants identified in the MB screen (Figure 1C), suggesting that these 12 mutants are neither generally affected in luciferase expression nor generally defective in their response to abiotic stresses. [[FIGURE]] The algal mutants for the genetic screen were generated by insertional mutagenesis to facilitate identification of the mutated gene based on tagging with the selectable marker gene cassette (Figure 1A). However, previous work has shown that only ∼50% of the mutations are tagged by the transforming DNA (CITATION). Moreover, the integration of transforming DNA into the C. reinhardtii nuclear genome is often accompanied by larger deletions at the site of insertion, thus additionally complicating gene identification. When isolation of flanking sequences by inverse PCR was attempted for four of the mutants that proved to be 1O2 specific, only one of the mutants (P45E1; Figures 1B and 1C) turned out to be tagged and was devoid of a genomic deletion accompanying marker insertion. The mutant harbored a single-copy insertion of the hygromycin resistance cassette in the putative promoter region of a small gene of unknown function (insertion site: chr_9:4592978-4593500; Joint Genome Initiative C. reinhardtii genome version 4.0). The gene, subsequently referred to as MBS (Figure 1D) is interrupted by three introns, as revealed by comparison of the genomic sequence with a full-length clone in the expressed sequence tag (EST) database and further confirmed by RT-PCR and DNA sequencing (Figure 1E). RT-PCR assays also indicated that the insertion of the hygromycin cassette into the promoter completely abolishes MBS expression in the isolated mbs mutant (Figures 1D and 1E), suggesting that the mutant represents a null allele. To confirm that the tagged locus is indeed responsible for the mutant phenotype, the mutant strain was complemented by genetic transformation with a cDNA expression construct. The resulting transgenic strains (PPsaD:MBS/mbs) showed wild-type-like tolerance to MB under conditions where the mbs mutant died, presumably due to lethal photooxidative damage (Figure 1F). The putative MBS protein is a small protein of 10.7 kD. It has homologs in all lineages of land plants. While it is encoded by a single-copy nuclear gene in C. reinhardtii and rice (Oryza sativa), two (highly similar) copies are found in the Arabidopsis genome and three copies in the genome of the model moss Physcomitrella patens (Figure 1G). The only salient feature identifiable upon bioinformatics analysis of the amino acid sequence was a single zinc finger motif of the C2H2 type (Figure 1G). To assess the possible involvement of the MBS homologs in 1O2 sensing and/or signaling in embryophytes, we sought to isolate mutants of the two genes in Arabidopsis, tentatively named MBS1 (AT3G02790) and MBS2 (AT5G16470). Neither of the two genes displays a pronounced tissue-specific or developmental stage-specific expression pattern, with the exception of a moderate upregulation of MBS2 during senescence, a condition known to involve substantial production of ROS (see Supplemental Figure 1 online). Searches of the collections of T-DNA–tagged Arabidopsis lines revealed three candidate mutants, two of them harboring insertions upstream of MBS1 (mbs1-1 and mbs1-2) and one carrying a T-DNA insertion upstream of MBS2 (mbs2-1; Figure 2A). Sequencing of the insertion sites confirmed the location of the T-DNA inserts. To determine the effects of the T-DNA insertions on MBS expression, homozygous mutant lines were isolated and analyzed by nonquantitative RT-PCR assays. The results revealed that, while the mbs1-1 mutant showed no detectable expression and therefore is probably equivalent to a knockout mutant, the mbs1-2 and mbs2-1 mutants had wild-type-like expression levels (Figure 2B). This finding is consistent with the T-DNA insertion in the mbs1-1 mutant being much closer to the coding region than in the other two mutants (Figure 2A). [[FIGURE]] The mbs1-1 mutant did not display a discernible phenotype under standard growth conditions. To preliminarily test for involvement of Arabidopsis MBS1 in plant responses to 1O2, the sensitivity of mbs1-1 mutant plants to high-light (HL) stress was examined, a condition known to trigger massive production of 1O2 by PSII (CITATION). Indeed, mbs1-1 mutant plants showed severe symptoms of photooxidative damage under excess light (Figure 2C), consistent with an involvement of the Arabidopsis MBS1 protein in ROS responses. At the rosette stage, the phenotype was characterized by early senescence of the older leaves, indicative of the accumulation of light-induced oxidative damage over time. In the absence of a second independent T-DNA mutant for MBS1, complementation of the mbs1-1 mutant with an MBS1-GFP (for green fluorescent protein) fusion gene under the control of the native MBS1 promoter was attempted. Transgenic lines (PMBS1:MBS1-GFP/mbs1-1 lines) were initially identified by their GFP fluorescence and subsequently assayed for complementation of the HL-sensitive mbs1-1 phenotype. Four independently generated lines showed accumulation of the MBS1-GFP fusion protein and displayed wild-type-like tolerance to HL stress (Figures 2C; see Supplemental Figure 2 online), thus proving that the phenotype of the mbs1-1 mutant is indeed caused by the T-DNA insertion and, at the same time, demonstrating that the MBS1-GFP fusion protein is functional. In the absence of both a mutant for MBS2 and a second independent T-DNA allele for MBS1, mutant lines for both genes were produced by RNA interference (RNAi). To this end, gene-specific tags were inserted into RNAi vectors and stably transformed into the Arabidopsis genome. For both MBS1 and MBS2, RNAi lines could be isolated that showed varying amounts of gene-specific downregulation of expression at the mRNA level (Figure 2D). To generate a double mutant, the RNAi construct against MBS2 was transformed into the mbs1-1 mutant and homozygous RNAi-MBS2 mbs1-1 mutants were isolated. They showed lack of detectable MBS1 expression and low levels of MBS2 expression (Figure 2D). While the phenotype of the RNAi-MBS2 plants was similar to that of the mbs1-1 mutant, the double mutants clearly showed a more severe phenotype in that premature leaf senescence occurred already at the early rosette stage (Figure 2E). To determine the subcellular localization of the MBS proteins in both C. reinhardtii and Arabidopsis, gene fusions to yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) (C. reinhardtii) and GFP (Arabidopsis) were constructed and introduced into cells by stable and transient transformation, respectively. Visualization of YFP fluorescence in C. reinhardtii was possible using the recently generated UV mutagenesis (UVM) expression strains (CITATION; CITATION). The MBS-YFP fusion protein showed a clear cytosolic localization in the transgenic algal strains (Figure 3A). Similarly, the Arabidopsis MBS1-GFP fusion protein accumulated in the nucleocytosolic compartment of transiently transformed tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) protoplasts (Figure 3B). Interestingly, the localization pattern changed markedly when the cells were exposed to 1O2 stress. The previously homogeneous distribution of the fluorescence in the cytosol was now confined to discrete spots (Figure 3C), raising the possibility that the perception of 1O2 involves a pronounced change of MBS1 protein distribution in the cell. [[FIGURE]] Stress-related globular structures that are known to form in the cytosol include stress granules (SGs) and processing bodies (PBs). SGs accumulate under various stress conditions and represent large cytoplasmic aggregates of untranslated mRNAs bound to a specific set of proteins. As the mRNAs are stored in the form of stalled preinitiation complexes, translation initiation factors, such as RNA-binding protein47 (RBP47), can serve as molecular markers for SGs (CITATION). PBs are stress-related cytoplasmic foci that contain enzymes involved in mRNA degradation. In plant cells, they can be distinguished from SGs using the DECAPPING1 (DCP1) subunit of the mRNA decapping complex as marker protein (CITATION). To test for a possible association of MBS1 with SGs and/or PBs, constructs expressing fusions of the red fluorescent protein (RFP) to RBP47 or DCP1 (CITATION) were employed in cotransformation experiments with the MBS1-GFP fusion construct. Interestingly, MBS1-GFP fluorescence showed clear overlap with both RFP-RBP47 and RFP-Dcp1 fluorescence, indicating that MBS1 associates with both SGs and PBs upon 1O2 stress (Figure 3C; see Supplemental Figure 3 online). Light stress–dependent accumulation of MBS1 (and its concentration in cytoplasmic granular structures) was also seen in transgenic plants stably expressing the MBS1-GFP fusion protein (Figures 3D and 3E; see Supplemental Movie 1 online). To ultimately confirm that MBS1 protein is associated with cytosolic RNA-containing granules, we enriched these granules from plants expressing the MBS1-GFP fusion protein using a protocol developed for PB purification (CITATION). This procedure resulted in the isolation of fluorescent bodies that could be readily observed by confocal laser scanning microscopy (see Supplemental Figure 3B online). Treatment with RNase A resulted in loss of the granular GFP fluorescence suggesting that it dissolved the granules or at least released MBS1-GFP protein from the granules (see Supplemental Figure 3B online). If mbs mutants are defective in 1O2 sensing or signaling, they should be incapable of efficient induction of the antioxidative defense system that detoxifies 1O2 after stress acclimation. To test for such defects, 1O2 imaging of light-stressed Arabidopsis seedlings was performed by staining leaves with the 1O2-specific fluorescent dye singlet oxygen sensor green (SOSG; CITATION). Indeed, leaves of the mbs1-1 mutant showed much more intense staining with SOSG than the wild type (Figure 4A), suggesting that the mutant is deficient in inducing 1O2 detoxification reactions, presumable due to the lack of proper 1O2 signaling. The effect was specific to 1O2 in that staining for H2O2 accumulation with diamino benzidine revealed no significant difference between the wild type and the mutant (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). [[FIGURE]] To study the effects of MBS1 overexpression, an additional set of transgenic lines was generated (in addition to the complemented PMBS1:MBS1-GFP/mbs1-1 lines; see above), in which the MBS1 transgene is driven by the strong constitutive cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter in the msb1-1 mutant background (35S:MBS1/mbs1-1 lines). As expected, these lines also showed complementation of the mbs1-1 mutant phenotype, including full restoration of 1O2 signaling and detoxification reactions in response to light stress (Figure 4A). SOSG staining was also employed to investigate 1O2 accumulation at the subcellular level. As a control, the Arabidopsis flu mutant was included, which accumulates the photosensitizer protochlorophyllide in the dark and, after a dark-to-light shift, generates massive amounts of 1O2 in the chloroplast (CITATION; CITATION). As expected, this was seen as intense SOSG fluorescence upon transfer of mutant plants to the light (Figure 4B). By contrast, wild-type plants did not show significant changes in SOSG fluorescence even upon transfer to HL, presumably because of the efficient induction of 1O2 signaling mechanisms and detoxification reactions. The mbs1-1 mutant, however, showed strong accumulation of 1O2 in chloroplasts in response to light stress (Figure 4B), confirming that the chloroplast is the main site of 1O2 production also in the mbs1-1 mutant and providing further evidence for this mutant not properly responding to 1O2. Extensive work on the flu mutant has shown that, under low-level photooxidative stress, 1O2 production does not directly cause lethal cellular damage, but instead, activates a genetic program (dependent on the function of the EXECUTER1 protein) that ultimately results in cell death, seedling lethality, and inhibited plant growth (CITATION). At higher levels of photooxidative stress, this genetically controlled response is gradually overridden by the physiological cell death response triggered by 1O2 toxicity. When the sensitivity of the mbs1-1 mutant to photooxidative stress was analyzed in dark-light shift experiments, it was found to be highly sensitive (with ∼80% seedling lethality), albeit significantly less sensitive than the flu mutant (that showed 100% lethality; Figure 4C). Light sensitivity of the mbs1-1 mutant was further confirmed by measurements of the maximum quantum efficiency of PSII, Fv/Fm. Upon HL stress, Fv/Fm declined sharply in the mutant compared with the wild type (see Supplemental Figure 5 online), suggestive of the accumulation of photooxidative damage in PSII. Altogether, these data are consistent with an important role of the MBS protein in triggering appropriate cellular responses to 1O2 stress. Taken together, the data on the C. reinhardtii and Arabidopsis mutants establish that mbs mutants produce 1O2 upon photooxidative stress, but cannot properly induce cellular defense responses. In C. reinhardtii, this is also evident at the level of 1O2-responsive gene expression (Figure 1). To test whether the Arabidopsis mbs1-1 mutant is defective in ROS-responsive gene expression, quantitative real-time RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) assays were performed for marker genes of oxidative stress (Figure 5). The Arabidopsis flu mutant was included as a control because it shows extreme induction of 1O2-responsive gene expression, due to the massive production of 1O2 after transition from darkness (or low light) to HL conditions (CITATION; CITATION). Analysis of MBS1 expression in the wild type and the flu mutant revealed that MBS1 itself is not inducible at the mRNA level by 1O2 stress (Figure 5). qRT-PCR using specific primers for the 1O2 marker genes AAA (for AAA-ATPase; CITATION), BAP1 (for BON ASSOCIATION PROTEIN1; CITATION), and Toll-IR (for Toll-Interleukin-Resistance domain-containing protein; CITATION) revealed rapid induction of expression in the flu mutant already 1 h after the shift to HL stress (which slightly decreased after 3 h) and moderate induction in the wild type after 1 h (followed by a decline after 2 h and another increase after 3 h). By contrast, no increase above the level at time point zero was seen in the expression of any of the three 1O2 marker genes in the mbs1-1 mutant (and overall, the expression levels tended to even decrease). [[FIGURE]] To test whether or not other ROS responses are also impaired in the mbs1-1 mutant, the expression of two H2O2 marker genes was analyzed: ASCORBATE PEROXIDASE1 (APX1; CITATION) and CATALASE2 (CAT2; CITATION). Both genes showed similar induction behavior upon light stress in the wild type, the flu mutant, and the mbs1-1 mutant (Figure 5), indicating that the responses to H2O2 are largely unaffected. Finally, two general light stress–responsive transcription factors were investigated: ZAT12 (CITATION) and WRKY40 (CITATION). Their induction by light stress was delayed or less pronounced in the mbs1-1 mutant compared with the wild type and the flu mutant, possibly due to the lack of the contribution of the 1O2 signal to the induction. Together, these data suggest that, at the level of gene expression, the mbs1-1 mutant does not respond properly to 1O2, while it shows largely unaffected responses to other ROS. Using the 35S:MBS1 construct (see above), transgenic Arabidopsis lines overexpressing the MBS1 protein were generated. Nonquantitative RT-PCR analyses indicated that, at the mRNA level, substantial overexpression of the MBS1 gene could be achieved (Figure 6A). To be able to assess expression at the protein level, specific antibodies against the MBS1 protein were generated. The antibodies recognized the MBS1 protein with high specificity but were not sensitive enough to detect the protein in wild-type plants, possibly suggesting that the expression level is low or protein detection is difficult due to the small size of MBS1 (of only 11.3 kD). However, in two MBS1 overexpression lines (35S:MBS1-8 and 35S:MBS1-28; Figure 6B), the antibodies detected the MBS1 protein, demonstrating that strong overexpression was achieved also at the protein level. The MBS1 overexpression lines were visually indistinguishable from wild-type plants and mbs1-1 mutant plants under normal light conditions (120 µE m−2 s−1). However, when exposed to HL stress (at 1000 µE m−2 s−1; Figure 6C), the MBS1 overexpression lines showed a much stronger accumulation of the stress-protective pigment anthocyanin than the wild type, while the mbs1-1 mutant (and also the RNAi-MBS2 mbs1-1 mutant) showed a pale phenotype and lacked visible accumulation of anthocyanin (although some low-level induction of anthocyanin biosynthesis was measurable; Figures 6C and 6D). It is well established that anthocyanin synthesis is induced upon exposure to HL (and other types of oxidative stress), but this induction is largely inhibited by overaccumulation of ROS (CITATION). Thus, the pattern of anthocyanin accumulation in the mbs mutants and overexpression lines confirms that 1O2 overaccumulation occurs in the mbs mutants and suggests that light stress responses are induced more efficiently in the MBS1 overexpression lines. The stronger protective response to HL stress translates into a pronounced growth advantage of the MBS1 overexpression lines after transfer back to normal light conditions (Figure 6C). High tolerance of the overexpression lines to light stress (and hypersensitivity of the mbs mutants) was further confirmed by measurements of the change in chlorophyll content (which declined less severely in the overexpression lines than in the wild type) and in the maximum quantum efficiency of PSII (which did not decline in the wild type and the overexpression lines) during the recovery from HL stress (Figure 6D). [[FIGURE]] The anti-MBS1 antibody also detected the MBS1-GFP protein in one of our complemented lines that were transformed with the MBS1-GFP construct under the control of the endogenous MBS1 promoter (Figure 6B). This allowed us to determine MBS1 protein accumulation in response to HL stress. Indeed, the protein accumulated to elevated level after transfer from normal light to HL (Figure 6B). As light stress does not significantly alter MBS1 mRNA levels (Figure 5), this finding suggests that MBS1 accumulation is regulated at the translational or posttranslational level. Light stress–induced MBS1-GFP accumulation also explains the strong increase in GFP fluorescence after transfer from the dark to HL conditions observed in our subcellular localization analyses (Figure 3D). Assuming that MBS proteins act as components of 1O2 signaling, but do not function as a scavenger of 1O2, MBS-expressing bacterial strains should not show an elevated tolerance to 1O2 stress, as the MBS-overexpressing plants do. To confirm this, the MBS genes from C. reinhardtii (Cr-MBS) and Arabidopsis (At-MBS1) were expressed under the control of an isopropyl–β–d–thiogalactopyranosid–inducible promoter in Escherichia coli. When the strains were challenged with 1O2 stress induced by MB treatment, no increased tolerance was seen in the stains overexpressing Cr-MBS or At-MBS1 (see Supplemental Figure 6 online), suggesting that the MBS protein does not act as a 1O2 scavenger. Transcriptome profiling experiments were performed for the following five lines: mbs1-1, RNAi-MBS2 mbs1-1, 35S:MBS1, flu, and the wild type. Plants were stressed by shifting them from a 3-h dark period to HL for 3 h and compared with unstressed control plants at the end of the 3-h dark period (see Methods) in three biological replicates using Affymetrix ATH1 microarrays. When the numbers of genes in the genome that displayed a more than fourfold significant change 3 h after the onset of light stress (P value threshold set to 0.05 based on Student’s t test with false discovery rate correction) were compared, the flu mutant showed the strongest change (Figure 7A). The number of induced genes was elevated compared with the wild type and the other plant lines investigated, consistent with the flu mutant suffering from severe photooxidative stress upon transfer from low light to light stress conditions. [[FIGURE]] To assess the regulation of ROS-responsive genes, we extracted from the microarray data sets all Arabidopsis genes that had been reported as specifically responding to 1O2 or H2O2/O2− based on previously performed comprehensive transcriptomic studies using the same microarrays (Affymetrix ATH1; CITATION; CITATION). This gave a set of 625 1O2-responsive genes (=617 probe sets on the ATH1 array) and 638 H2O2/O2−-responsive genes (=597 probe sets; see Supplemental Data Set 1 online). These sets were then analyzed in the five plant lines (Figure 7; see Supplemental Figures 7 and 8 and Supplemental Data Set 2 online). As expected, the ROS-responsive gene expression pattern in the flu mutant differed most strongly from that of the other four lines. The wild type grouped together with the 35S:MBS1 overexpression line, and the two mbs mutant lines (mbs1-1 and RNAi-MBS2 mbs1-1) clustered together. Interestingly, in the mutant lines, the number of 1O2 marker genes significantly induced by more than fourfold by HL stress was much lower than in the wild type (Figure 7B). Whereas 51 1O2-responsive genes were upregulated in the wild type, only 16 were upregulated in the RNAi-MBS2 mbs1-1 double mutant (Figure 7B), supporting the idea that the MBS gene product is required to mediate 1O2 responses at the level of gene expression. By contrast, the number of H2O2/O2−-responsive genes induced in the mutants was only slightly lower than in the wild type and the 35S:MBS1 line, suggesting that these responses are not primarily affected in the mbs mutants (Figure 7C). MBS accumulates in the nucleocytosolic compartment. 1O2 is mainly produced in the chloroplast as a by-product of photosynthetic electron transfer (CITATION). The chloroplast is also an important site where 1O2-mediated adaptation responses occur to scavenge 1O2 and minimize its production. The latter includes a transcriptional response of the chloroplast genome (CITATION), which encodes many of the key components of the ROS-producing photosystems, especially the reaction center subunits of both photosystems which bind a large number of redox-active cofactors. Chloroplast photosynthesis genes are mainly transcribed by the plastid-encoded RNA polymerase, which resembles bacterial RNA polymerases and requires nuclear-encoded sigma factors for promoter recognition (CITATION). Sigma factors, in turn, are regulated by sigma factor binding proteins (CITATION). In Arabidopsis, the SIGMA FACTOR BINDING PROTEIN1 (SIB1) is rapidly induced by 1O2 stress (CITATION) and by pathogen attack (CITATION), the response to which also involves ROS production and extensive ROS-mediated signal transduction (CITATION; CITATION). Our microarray experiments indicated that the transcriptional induction of the SIB1 gene in response to HL stress is abrogated in mbs mutants (see Supplemental Data Sets 1 and 2 online). In view of the key role that SIB1 and plastid sigma factors play in mediating primary stress responses in chloroplast gene expression (CITATION; CITATION), we sought to confirm this finding using an independent method. qRT-PCR analyses demonstrated that neither the mbs1-1 mutant nor the RNAi-MBS2 mbs1-1 mutant were capable of inducing the expression of the SIB1 gene in response to HL stress, whereas the 35S:MBS1 overexpression line showed a wild-type-like response (Figure 8). These data provide further evidence for mbs mutants being impaired in their response to 1O2 at the level of nuclear gene expression and, moreover, suggest that also the 1O2-induced remodeling of chloroplast gene expression is defective in the mutants. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Mutant screening was performed in a transgenic algal strain derived from Chlamydomonas reinhardtii strain 325 (CW15, mt+, arg7-8). The reporter gene cassette consisting of the codon-optimized luciferase gene from Gaussia princeps and the 1O2-inducible HSP70A promoter was described previously (CITATION). Subcellular localization analyses were performed in the C. reinhardtii expression strain UVM11 (CITATION). Algal cultures were grown photoheterotrophically in Tris-acetate phosphate (TAP) medium (CITATION) on a rotatory shaker at 23°C under continuous irradiation with white light (55 µEinstein m−2 s−1). To test the sensitivity of algal strains to 1O2, 1.5 × 103 and 3 × 104 cells were spotted in three replicates on an agar plate containing 2 µM of the photosensitizer MB (Merck) and incubated for 6 h under HL (1000 µE m−2 s−1), followed by recovery in normal light (55 µE m−2 s−1) for 20 d. To produce insertional mutants for screening, a C. reinhardtii strain harboring the 1O2-inducible G. princeps luciferase cassette (CITATION) was transformed with a 1.7-kb HindIII restriction fragment carrying the PTUB:aph7″ hygromycin resistance cassette from vector pHyg3 (CITATION). To this end, samples of 108 cells were transformed with 30 ng of fragment DNA using the glass bead–assisted transformation method (CITATION; CITATION). Transformants were selected on TAP plates containing 10 μg/mL of hygromycin B. For 1O2 induction of reporter gene expression, transgenic colonies grown for 2 weeks on TAP plates in continuous light (55 μE m−2 s−1) at 23°C were resuspended in 50 μL of TAP medium with or without 1 µM MB in 96-well microtiter plates and treated with HL (1000 µE m−2 s−1) for 1 h. After recovery in normal light for 3 to 4 h at room temperature, bioluminescence of the samples was measured with a luminometer (MicroBeta TriLux; CITATION), and the fold induction of luciferase activity was calculated by comparison with the control sample not exposed to HL treatment. To monitor heat shock induction of luciferase expression, luminescence images of algal colonies were recorded with an ultrasensitive photon-counting camera (Hamamatsu) after shifting the culture plates from 23 to 40°C for 1 h and recovery at room temperature for 1 h (CITATION). The reading frame of the MBS gene from C. reinhardtii (Cr-MBS) was amplified with or without its stop codon by PCR using the EST clone AV621044 as a template and specific primers (primer NdeI-ZF combined with ZF-EcoRI or ZF-SnaBEcoRI; see Supplemental Table 1 online). The PPsaD:MBS construct was cloned by inserting the Cr-MBS fragment with the stop codon as NdeI/EcoRI restriction fragment into the Cr-PsaD expression cassette (CITATION) of a vector harboring the paromomycin resistance gene aphVIII as selectable marker gene (CITATION). To produce an MBS-YFP fusion gene, the Cr-MBS fragment lacking the stop codon and containing an additional SnaBI site at the 3′ end was inserted into the PsaD expression cassette. Subsequently, a PCR-amplified YFP fragment with SnaBI-EcoRI ends (see Supplemental Table 1 online) was integrated between Cr-MBS and the PsaD terminator, generating the PPsaD:MBS-YFP expression construct. Total genomic DNA from C. reinhardtii was extracted following published protocols (CITATION). Inverse PCR was performed according to standard procedures (CITATION) with the modification that nested PCRs were performed. Briefly, 0.5- to 1-µg aliquots of genomic DNA were digested overnight with either PstI or PuvII at 37°C in a total volume of 50 µL. Following phenol extraction and ethanol precipitation, self-ligation by T4 DNA ligase was performed with 100 ng of purified DNA in a 100-μL reaction volume overnight at 4°C. The ligated DNA was then linearized by digestion with SacI, a restriction enzyme with a unique cleavage site in the PTUB:aph7″ expression cassette. The purified SacI-digested DNA was used in inverse PCR reactions with the primers Inv-Hyg-f and Inv-Hyg-r (see Supplemental Table 1 online). Nested PCR with primers LMS-Hyg-f and LMS-Hyg-r amplified the insertion site-specific band and, in the case of the P45E1 mutant (mbs mutant), gave a band of ∼2.5 kb that was purified from the agarose gel and sequenced. The sequences flanking the insertion site were extracted from the C. reinhardtii genome sequence (Joint Genome Initiative version 4.0; CITATION) and analyzed with respect to the predicted gene models. Specific primers for Cr-MBS (see Supplemental Table 1) were designed according to the sequence of EST clone AV621044. Nuclear transformation of C. reinhardtii was performed using the glass bead method (CITATION). For complementation of the mbs mutant, 200 ng of linearized DNA of the PPsaD:MBS plasmid was transformed and transgenic strains were selected on agar-solidified TAP medium containing 10 μg/mL of paromomycin. Transformants were screened for their luciferase activity in response to 1O2 induction with 1 µM MB in HL (1000 µE m−2 s−1) for 1 h. To determine the subcellular localization of MBS, the linearized PPsaD:MBS-YFP plasmid was transformed into C. reinhardtii expression strain UVM11 (CITATION) followed by selection of transformants for paromomycin resistance. Arabidopsis wild-type and mutant plants (all ecotype Columbia) were grown on half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium (CITATION) with 1% Suc for 12 d and then transferred to soil and cultivated under long-day conditions (16 h light/8 h dark, 22°C/18°C) at a light intensity of 120 μE m−2 s−1. HL stress treatments were performed under 900 to 1100 μE m−2 s−1 (16 h light/8 h dark) at 21°C and 55% relative humidity. Prior to HL stress treatments, plants were incubated in low light (10 to 20 µE m−2 s−1) for 7 d. The T-DNA insertion lines mbs1-1 (SAIL_661_B05), mbs1-2 (WiscDsLox337D07), and mbs2-1 (SALK_091719) were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre. Homozygous T-DNA lines were identified by PCR using genomic DNA and T-DNA–specific primers (LB-SALK-b1.3, LB-Wisc, and LB-SAIL) in combination with gene-specific primers (see Supplemental Table 2 online). All PCR products were sequenced to confirm the T-DNA insertions. The Arabidopsis flu mutant (CITATION) was grown from seeds in continuous light. The RNAi-MBS1 and RNAi-MBS2 vectors were constructed using gene-specific tags of MBS1 (pENTR207_CATMA3a01730) and MBS2 (pENTR207_CATMA5a14770) from the AGRIKOLA collection of RNAi vectors (CITATION; Figure 2A; see Supplemental Table 3 online). The gene-specific tag region of the entry clones was recombined into the RNAi vector pK7GWIWG2(I) (CITATION). To generate the 35S:MBS1 overexpression construct, the PCR-amplified MBS1 reading frame was inserted into a CaMV 35S expression cassette as a BamHI-XbaI fragment (for sequences of PCR primers BamH-3g02790 and At3g02790-XbaI, see Supplemental Table 4 online). To construct a transformation vector for expression of an MBS1-GFP fusion protein (PMBS1:MBS1-GFP construct), a 1252-bp fragment covering the region upstream of the MBS1 start codon and the MBS1 reading frame without its stop codon (obtained by PCR with primers SacI-3g02790 and At3g02790-NcoI followed by digestion with SacI and NcoI; see Supplemental Table 4 online) was ligated to the coding region of GFP followed by the octopine synthase terminator. Transformation of wild-type plants and mbs1-1 mutant plants was performed by the floral dip method (CITATION) using Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101:pMP90:pSOUP. GFP fusion constructs of the full-length coding regions of At-MBS1 and At-MBS2 were transiently expressed in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) protoplasts by polyethylene glycol–mediated DNA uptake. To this end, the At-MBS genes were PCR amplified with gene-specific primers introducing restriction sites for XhoI and NcoI at the 5′ and 3′ ends, respectively (see Supplemental Table 4 online). After digestion with XhoI and NcoI, the amplification products were ligated to the GFP gene in vector pA7-GFP (CITATION), generating an in-frame translational fusion between the MBS gene and the coding sequence of GFP under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. For subcellular localization analyses, plasmids were transiently transformed into tobacco protoplasts (CITATION). To test for colocalization with PBs and SGs, the pA7-MBS1-GFP vector was cotransformed with the Dcp1 or Rbp47 reporter constructs (CITATION) into protoplasts. 1O2 stress treatments were performed under HL in the presence of 1 µM MB for 30 min. Subcellular localization of reporter protein fluorescence was determined by confocal laser scanning microscopy (Leica TCS SP5) using a HCx PL APO ×63 W objective lens. Excitation wavelengths were 488 nm for GFP, 514 nm for YFP, 561 nm for RFP, and 488 nm for chlorophyll fluorescence. Total plant DNA was isolated from fresh leaf material by a rapid mini-prep procedure (CITATION). Total cellular RNA was extracted using the peqGold TriFast reagent (Peqlab). RNA samples were digested with DNase (TURBO DNA-free kit; Ambion), and cDNA was synthesized using SuperScript III reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen) and oligo(dT)18 primers according to the manufacturer’s instructions (for RT-PCR primers, see Supplemental Table 5 online). cDNAs from C. reinhardtii were amplified using TaKaRa LA Taq polymerase with GC buffer (Fisher Scientific) and specific primers (see Supplemental Table 5 online) under the following conditions: 94°C for 2 min, 30 cycles of 94°C for 30 s, 60°C for 1 min, and 72°C for 30 s, followed by a final extension at 72°C for 5 min. For qRT-PCR analyses in Arabidopsis, Actin2 or Ubi10 were amplified as controls for cDNA quality. For the analysis of stress-responsive gene expression by qRT-PCR, 12-d-old Arabidopsis seedlings grown on agar plates and adapted to 10 µE m−2 s−1 continuous light for 7 d were exposed to HL stress (1000 µE m−2 s−1, followed by a 3-h dark period), and samples were collected at different time points. qRT-PCR assays were performed using the LightCycler 480 real-time PCR system (Roche Applied Science) and Absolute SYBR Green ROX mix (Thermo Scientific; for primers, see Supplemental Table 6 online). mRNA abundance of stress-related genes was normalized to the Profilin1 (At2g19760; CITATION) expression level. To confirm the suitability of Profilin1 as reference gene under light stress, the expression of CYP5 (At2g29960) was analyzed as an additional reference. The reference genes changed by ≤1.2 cycles under the conditions of our light stress experiments for initial qRT-PCR evaluation of stress marker gene expression and by ≤0.5 cycles in the light stress experiment used for microarray analysis (see below). Three biological replicates were analyzed with two technical replicates each. The 2−ΔΔCT (cycle threshold) method was used to determine relative transcript levels (CITATION). Statistical evaluation was performed by analysis of variance with Microsoft Office Excel 2010. Nonquantitative RT-PCR with Arabidopsis cDNAs was performed under the following conditions: 94°C for 2 min, 30 cycles of 94°C for 30 s, 50°C for 1 min, and 72°C for 30 s, followed by a final extension at 72°C for 5 min. For primer sequences, see Supplemental Table 5 online. To generate a vector for overexpression of At-MBS1 in Escherichia coli, the reading frame was amplified with gene-specific primers (NdeI-At3g02790 and At3g02790EcoRI; see Supplemental Table 4 online), introducing restriction sites for NdeI and EcoRI at the 5′ and 3′ end, respectively. The PCR product was digested with NdeI and EcoRI and ligated into expression vector pET21b (Novagene). Polyclonal anti-MBS1 antibodies were produced by immunizing rabbits (BioGenes) with purified At-MBS1 protein overexpressed in E. coli. To test for a possible 1O2-scavenging function of MBS proteins in E. coli, Cr-MBS and At-MBS1 were overexpressed from pET vectors. As a control, a strain overexpressing a short fragment of ovalbumin (amino acids 280 to 362) was used. Protein expression was induced by addition of 0.1 mM isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranosid to the cultures (at OD600 = 0.6) followed by incubation for 2 h at room temperature. 1O2 stress tolerance was analyzed by comparing the growth of the strains on Luria-Bertani medium containing 5 µM MB and release of 1O2 by light treatment (at 1000 µE m−2 s−1 for 4 h). A dilution series of cultures spotted onto the Luria-Bertani agar plates with or without MB was analyzed in triplicate. Total plant protein was extracted using a phenol-based method described previously (CITATION). Protein extracts were electrophoretically separated in Tricine-SDS polyacrylamide gels (CITATION) and transferred to Hybond-P polyvinylidene difluoride membranes (GE Healthcare) using a Trans-Blot cell (Bio-Rad) and a standard transfer buffer (192 mM Gly, 25 mm Tris, 20% methanol, and 2% SDS, pH 8.3). Immunoblot detection was performed with specific antibodies using the enhanced chemiluminescence system (ECL PLUS; GE Healthcare). Polyclonal antibodies against the O-subunit of photosystem II and a peroxidase-conjugated anti-rabbit IgG were purchased from Agrisera. Four-week-old plants grown in soil were treated with HL (1000 μE m−2 s−1) for 3 h and then transferred to the normal light (120 μE m−2 s−1) for 45 min. The leaves were harvested, quickly ground at 4°C, and then lysed by rotation in the presence of cold lysis buffer composed of 1% Triton X-100, 0.4 mM Tris, pH 7.5, 5 mM NaCl, 6.25 mM MgCl2, 10 µM DTT, and 1× protease inhibitor cOmplete Mini EDTA free (Roche). Lysis was performed for 15 min at 4°C in the presence or absence of 0.4 units/μL of RNase inhibitor. Lysates were cleared by brief centrifugation at 2000g for 2 min at 4°C. The supernatant was centrifuged at 10,000g for 10 min at 4°C, yielding a pellet of semipurified PBs (CITATION). To test for RNA sensitivity, the resuspended pellet was treated with RNase A (1 μg/μL for 10 min at room temperature; CITATION). For microscopy analysis, 5 μL of the PB-enriched pellet was examined directly with the confocal microscope. Detection of H2O2 and 1O2 by staining of intact leaves with diamino benzidine and SOSG, respectively, was performed according to published protocols (CITATION). For SOSG imaging, 12-d-old Arabidopsis seedlings were vacuum infiltrated with 100 µM SOSG in the dark and then exposed to HL (1000 µE m−2 s−1) for 1 h, while the control plants were kept in the dark. SOSG fluorescence images were taken with a confocal laser scanning microscope (Leica TCS SP5; excitation at 496 nm) or a fluorescence stereomicroscope (Leica MZ16 FA; excitation at 470/510 nm). Determination of chlorophyll and anthocyanin contents in Arabidopsis leaves was performed following published protocols (CITATION; CITATION). Chlorophyll a fluorescence was recorded using a pulse-amplitude modulated fluorometer (DUAL-PAM-100; Heinz Walz) on intact plants at room temperature as described previously (CITATION, CITATION). Plants were dark-adapted for 15 min prior to determination of the maximum photochemical efficiency of PSII (Fv/Fm). PSII photoinhibition was measured by the decrease in the chlorophyll fluorescence ratio Fv/Fm in detached leaves exposed to HL stress (1000 µE m−2 s−1) for 4 h followed by recovery at low light (20 µE m−2 s−1) for 4 h. Light stress–regulated gene expression profiles were analyzed with Affymetrix ATH1 microarrays. Five Arabidopsis genotypes were compared: the wild type, mbs1-1, RNAi-MBS2 mbs1-1, 35S:MBS1, and the flu mutant (CITATION). Twelve-day-old Arabidopsis seedlings grown on agar plates with half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium (supplemented with 1% Suc) and adapted to 10 µE m−2 s−1 continuous light for 7 d. Following a 3-h dark period, seedlings were exposed to HL stress (1000 µE m−2 s−1). The leaves were immediately collected at 0 h (time point HL 0 h) and 3 h (HL 3 h) of light stress. Three biological replicates were analyzed for each time point. Total cellular RNA was extracted using the NucleoSpin RNA Plant kit (Macherey-Nagel) according to the manufacturer’s instructions, without DNase digestion. The remaining DNA was digested using the Ambion DNA-free DNase Treatment and Removal Reagents (Invitrogen). RNA quality and quantity of samples were determined by analysis on an Agilent 2100 Bioanalyzer using the Agilent RNA 6000 Nano kit (Agilent Technologies). Transcript profiles were analyzed with Affymetrix GeneChip ATH1 arrays (ATLAS Biolabs). Raw data were passed through quality assessment and statistical analysis using Robin (CITATION) and the R software package (http://www.r-project.org). Each array was background-adjusted and normalized by the robust multiarray average normalization method in the R package “affy” (CITATION). For each probe, the average expression level of the three replicates was calculated. Microarray data sets were deposited in the National Center for Biotechnology Information Gene Expression Omnibus database (accession number GSE49596; http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE49596). Arabidopsis genes specifically responding to 1O2 or H2O2/O2− were selected based on two previously published comprehensive studies on ROS signaling that also used Affymetrix ATH1 microarrays for transcript profiling (CITATION; CITATION; see Supplemental Data Set 1 online). To determine differentially expressed genes, log2-fold changes (HL 3 h/HL 0 h) were calculated for each probe set on the Affymetrix ATH1 array and each genotype. Genes whose P value was ≤0.05 and whose absolute value of log2-fold change (HL 3 h/HL 0 h) was ≥2 were selected; among them, the genes known to be responsive to 1O2 or H2O2/O2− (CITATION; CITATION) were identified (see Supplemental Data Set 2 online). False discovery rate correction (CITATION) was performed by the function p.adjust in the R package “stats.” Heat map was plotted using the heatmap.2 function in gplots of the R package. For clustering, hierarchical cluster analysis was used. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: Arabidopsis MBS1, AT3G02790; Arabidopsis MBS2, AT5G16470; and C. reinhardtii MBS, jgi|Chlre4|298256. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Expression Patterns of MBS1 and MBS2 in Different Tissues and Developmental Stages of Arabidopsis thaliana. Supplemental Figure 2. Phenotypic Analysis of Three Additional Complemented Lines of the Arabidopsis mbs1-1 Mutant under High-Light Stress. Supplemental Figure 3. At-MBS1 Localization to P-Bodies under 1O2 Stress and RNase Sensitivity of MBS-Containing Cytosolic Granules. Supplemental Figure 4. Production of Hydrogen Peroxide in Response to High-Light Stress in Arabidopsis Wild-Type Seedlings and the mbs1-1 Mutant. Supplemental Figure 5. Photosystem II Photoinhibition in Leaves of Arabidopsis Wild-Type Plants and mbs1-1 Mutant Plants Exposed to High-Light Stress. Supplemental Figure 6. Test for a Possible 1O2-Scavenging Function of MBS Proteins in E. coli. Supplemental Figure 7. Light Stress Response of Genes Previously Reported as Responsive to Reactive Oxygen Species. Supplemental Figure 8. ROS-Responsive Genes That Are Significantly Changed in Their Expression under Light Stress in at Least One of the Plant Lines Analyzed. Supplemental Figure 9. Quantitation of 1O2 Accumulation in Leaves of the Arabidopsis Wild Type, the mbs1-1 Mutant, and the 35S:MBS1/mbs1-1 Transgenic Line under Light Stress. Supplemental Table 1. Oligonucleotides Used for Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. Supplemental Table 2. Oligonucleotides for Genotyping of T-DNA Insertion Lines. Supplemental Table 3. Transformation Vectors for the Generation of RNAi Lines and Their Gene-Specific Tags. Supplemental Table 4. Oligonucleotides for Transgenic Constructs in Arabidopsis. Supplemental Table 5. Oligonucleotides for RT-PCR. Supplemental Table 6. Oligonucleotides for Quantitative Real-Time PCR. Supplemental Data Set 1. List of Singlet Oxygen–Responsive and H2O2/O2−-Responsive Genes and Their Regulation in the Wild Type, mbs1-1, RNAi-MBS2 mbs1-1, 35S:MBS1, and flu under Light Stress. Supplemental Data Set 2. List of Singlet Oxygen–Responsive and H2O2/O2−-Responsive Genes That Are Significantly Regulated under Light Stress in at Least One of the Plant Lines Analyzed (the Wild Type, mbs1-1, RNAi-MBS2 mbs1-1, 35S:MBS1, and flu). Supplemental Movie 1. Movie of the Trafficking of MBS1-Associated Cytoplasmic Foci under 1O2 Stress.
