!~ABS~! Angiosperms require light for chlorophyll biosynthesis because one reaction in the pathway, the reduction of protochlorophyllide (Pchlide) to chlorophyllide, is catalyzed by the light-dependent protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase (POR). Here, we report that Cell growth defect factor1 (Cdf1), renamed here as CHAPERONE-LIKE PROTEIN OF POR1 (CPP1), an essential protein for chloroplast development, plays a role in the regulation of POR stability and function. Cdf1/CPP1 contains a J-like domain and three transmembrane domains, is localized in the thylakoid and envelope membranes, and interacts with POR isoforms in chloroplasts. CPP1 can stabilize POR proteins with its holdase chaperone activity. CPP1 deficiency results in diminished POR protein accumulation and defective chlorophyll synthesis, leading to photobleaching and growth inhibition of plants under light conditions. CPP1 depletion also causes reduced POR accumulation in etioplasts of dark-grown plants and as a result impairs the formation of prolamellar bodies, which subsequently affects chloroplast biogenesis upon illumination. Furthermore, in cyanobacteria, the CPP1 homolog critically regulates POR accumulation and chlorophyll synthesis under high-light conditions, in which the dark-operative Pchlide oxidoreductase is repressed by its oxygen sensitivity. These findings and the ubiquitous presence of CPP1 in oxygenic photosynthetic organisms suggest the conserved nature of CPP1 function in the regulation of POR.
!~RES~! Cdf1/CPP1 from Arabidopsis (At-CPP1) and N. benthamiana (Nb-CPP1) is predicted to have a chloroplast transit peptide, a J-like (JL) domain, and three transmembrane domains (see Supplemental Figures 1A and 1C online). The J-domain is found in DnaJ/Hsp40 cochaperones that function as partners of the highly conserved Hsp70; it is required for both interaction with Hsp70 and stimulation of Hsp70 ATPase activity (CITATION; CITATION). CPP1 homologs are ubiquitously present in oxygenic photosynthetic organisms that have POR, including cyanobacteria, green algae, mosses, gymnosperms, and angiosperms (see Supplemental Figures 1B and 1C and Supplemental Data Set 1 online). The JL domains of Nb-CPP1, At-CPP1, and slr1918 (the CPP1 homolog of Synechocystis sp PCC6803) are similar in structure to the J-domain of Tid1 (a human mitochondrial homolog of bacterial DnaJ cochaperones; CITATION) based on computational models, albeit with low sequence similarity (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). Interestingly, the JL domain of CPP1 lacks a highly conserved tripeptide of His, Pro, and Asp (the HPD motif) of the J-domain, which is required for its interaction with Hsp70 (CITATION; CITATION) (see Supplemental Figures 1C and 2 online). We examined the in vivo effects of CPP1 deficiency in N. benthamiana and Arabidopsis using VIGS and a dexamethasone (DEX)–inducible RNA interference (RNAi) strategy. Our analyses suggest that a null mutation of CPP1 is embryo lethal in Arabidopsis (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). VIGS of Nb-CPP1 in N. benthamiana resulted in leaf yellowing, similar to the phenotypes from VIGS-mediated double silencing of N. benthamiana POR1 (Nb-POR1) and Nb-POR2 (Figures 1A and 1C). VIGS of either Nb-POR1 or Nb-POR2 alone caused no visible phenotype. Real-time quantitative RT-PCR showed silencing of Nb-CPP1 in tobacco rattle virus (TRV):NbCPP1 lines, but not in TRV:NbPOR1/2 lines, compared with the TRV control (Figure 1B). Semiquantitative RT-PCR showed silencing of both Nb-POR1 and Nb-POR2 in TRV:NbPOR1/2 double-silenced lines compared with the TRV control (Figure 1D). Differential interference contrast and confocal laser scanning microscopy revealed that the average number and size of chloroplasts in the yellow sector of TRV:NbCPP1 leaves were reduced to ∼31.2 and ∼66.9% of the TRV control, respectively (Figure 1E; see Supplemental Figure 4 online). Chlorophyll autofluorescence of the TRV:NbCPP1 chloroplasts diminished to ∼4.9% of the control chloroplasts (Figure 1E). Total chlorophyll content in the yellow sectors of the TRV:NbCPP1 leaves was also reduced to ∼15.4% of levels in the TRV control, suggesting defective chlorophyll synthesis (Figure 1F). Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) of the spongy mesophyll cells in the yellow sectors revealed significantly decreased chloroplast numbers and abnormal chloroplast morphology in Nb-CPP1 VIGS plants (Figure 1G). The affected chloroplasts were small and elongated and contained poorly developed thylakoids. Taken together, these results demonstrate that Nb-CPP1 deficiency impairs chlorophyll synthesis and chloroplast biogenesis. [[FIGURE]] The DEX-inducible At-CPP1 RNAi seedlings were germinated and grown on medium containing ethanol (−DEX) or 10 μM DEX. Under low-light conditions, (+)DEX RNAi seedlings were photobleached in the cotyledons, accompanied by excessive accumulation of ROS, visualized by nitro blue tetrazolium (NBT) staining (Figures 2A and 2B; see Supplemental Figure 5 online). NBT forms a dark-blue formazan precipitate when in contact with superoxide radicals (CITATION). Under high-light conditions, growth of (+)DEX RNAi seedlings was stunted, with excessive production of anthocyanin pigments in cotyledons (Figure 2A; see Supplemental Figure 5 online). When the At-CPP1 RNAi plants were grown on soil and sprayed with DEX, the plants developed leaf yellowing with growth retardation (Figure 2C). Real-time quantitative RT-PCR revealed silencing of At-CPP1 upon DEX spraying (Figure 2D). [[FIGURE]] To determine the subcellular localization of CPP1, green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion constructs of Nb-CPP1 and At-CPP1 were transiently expressed in N. benthamiana leaves using agroinfiltration (CITATION). Confocal laser scanning microscopy using protoplasts isolated from the infiltrated leaves revealed that green fluorescent signals of AtCPP1:GFP were detected in the chloroplasts, but not in mitochondria, visualized by tetramethyl rhodamine methyl ester (TMRM) staining (Figure 3A). In yeast, At-CPP1 (previously named Cdf1) was localized to mitochondria, and its overexpression caused Bax-like lethality (CITATION). Green fluorescent signals of NbCPP1:GFP fusion proteins were detected in chloroplasts, and a GFP fusion protein of Nb-POR1 (NbPOR1:GFP) also showed a similar localization pattern in chloroplasts (Figure 3B). To determine the subplastidic localization of CPP1, immunoblotting was performed with chloroplast fractions purified from N. benthamiana leaves. Immunoblotting using anti-CPP1 and anti-POR antibodies detected CPP1 and POR proteins of N. benthamiana, respectively, in both thylakoid and envelope membrane fractions (Figure 3C). As a control for fractionation, the corresponding antibodies detected rbcL, Tic40, and D1 in the stromal, envelope, and thylakoid fractions, respectively. Localization of CPP1 in plastid membranes was confirmed by proteomics studies in Arabidopsis, maize (Zea mays), and cauliflower (Brassica oleracea ssp botrytis) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). POR proteins were previously detected in both stromal thylakoid and envelope membranes in chloroplasts of light-adapted plants, similar to the dual localization of several enzymes catalyzing the final steps of chlorophyll biosynthesis (CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To determine whether CPP1 and POR interact, we first used bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC). CPP1 and POR isoforms of Arabidopsis and N. benthamiana were expressed in combination as yellow fluorescent protein (YFP)N and YFPC fusion proteins in N. benthamiana leaves by agroinfiltration. Confocal laser scanning microscopy of the mesophyll cells of the infiltrated leaves (Figure 4A) and their protoplasts (see Supplemental Figure 6A online) revealed strong YFP fluorescence within chloroplasts, indicating an interaction between CPP1 and POR proteins regardless of the species of origin. However, BiFC of At-CPP1 with Arabidopsis CHL27 (for Mg2+-protoporphyrin IX monomethylester oxidative cyclase), CHLM (for Mg2+-protoporphyrin IX methyl transferase), and GENOMES UNCOUPLED4 (GUN4) and BiFC of Nb-CPP1 with N. benthamiana CHLI2 (for Mg-chelatase subunit I isoform 2) all resulted in no fluorescence, suggesting a lack of interaction (Figure 4A; see Supplemental Figure 6B online). Next, we performed coimmunoprecipitation assays (Figure 4B). A fusion protein between Nb-POR1 and the hemagglutinin tag (NbPOR1:HA) and NbPOR2:HA were transiently expressed using agroinfiltration and then immunoprecipitated from n-dodesyl-β-d-maltoside–solubilized chloroplast membranes using anti-HA antibodies. The immunoprecipitates contained the coexpressed NbCPP1:Flag proteins, suggesting interaction of Nb-CPP1 with both Nb-POR1 and Nb-POR2 in vivo (Figure 4B). However, HA fusions of N. benthamiana GUN4 (Nb-GUN4) or CHLI2 (Nb-CHLI2) could not be coimmunoprecipitated by NbCPP1:Flag, consistent with the BiFC results (see Supplemental Figure 7 online). For in vitro binding assays, purified maltose binding protein (MBP)–fused Nb-CPP1 and slr1918 (the CPP1 homolog of Synechocystis sp PCC6803) were immobilized on MBP resin and incubated with lysates of Escherichia coli cells expressing His tag–fused Nb-POR1 or Nb-GUN4 proteins (Figure 4C). After extensive washing of the resin, bound proteins were eluted and subjected to immunoblotting with anti-MBP and anti-His antibodies. Resin-bound MBP:NbCPP1 and MBP:slr1918, but not MBP alone, could pull down NbPOR1:His in vitro, suggesting an interaction between the CPP1 homologs and POR (Figure 4C). However, MBP:NbCPP1 could not pull down NbGUN4:His (Figure 4C). Collectively, these results support that CPP1 and POR interact with each other in chloroplast membranes. [[FIGURE]] Immunoblotting demonstrated that steady state POR protein levels in pale-green sectors of the leaves were significantly reduced in TRV:NbCPP1 VIGS N. benthamiana plants and TRV:NbPOR1/2 plants (for double silencing of POR1 and POR2) compared with control TRV or TRV:NbGyrB (for DNA gyrase subunit B) lines, whereas the levels of ATP synthase β-subunit (atpB), CAB, D1, and chloroplast HSP70 (cpHSP70) remained constant (Figure 5A). The VIGS control TRV:NbGyrB lines are silenced for chloroplast-targeted GyrB of N. benthamiana and show leaf yellowing (CITATION). Thus, CPP1 deficiency resulted in reduced POR protein accumulation in N. benthamiana. In Arabidopsis, silencing of CPP1 by DEX spraying decreased POR protein levels in seedlings from four independent DEX-inducible CPP1 RNAi lines compared with control samples (see Supplemental Figure 8 online). Total POR protein levels and CPP1 protein levels progressively decreased in the Arabidopsis RNAi seedlings following 0 to 8 d of DEX spraying, whereas the levels of other control chloroplast proteins were unchanged (Figure 5C). The transcript levels of Arabidopsis PORB and PORC, which are expressed under light conditions (CITATION; CITATION), as well as the levels of CHLH (for Mg-chelatase subunit H) and CHL27 remained unaffected by CPP1 silencing, whereas CPP1 was silenced by RNAi (Figure 5D). These results suggest that CPP1 is required for POR protein accumulation in chloroplasts. [[FIGURE]] We next examined whether CPP1 depletion leads to accumulation of the POR substrate Pchlide caused by POR deficiency by measuring fluorescence emission spectrum (Figure 5B; see Supplemental Figure 9 online). In N. benthamiana, both TRV:NbCPP1 and TRV:NbPOR1/2 VIGS leaves accumulated high levels of the POR substrate Pchlide, consistent with POR deficiency in those lines, while the Pchlide peaks were much smaller in the TRV and TRV:NbGyrB control lines (Figure 5B). Pchlide accumulation was also observed in Arabidopsis CPP1 RNAi seedlings upon DEX spraying, albeit weakly (see Supplemental Figure 9 online). To determine whether CPP1 is involved in the import of POR, we performed chloroplast import assays (see Supplemental Figure 10 online). First, NbPOR1:GFP was expressed in leaves of TRV control and TRV:NbCPP1 VIGS N. benthamiana plants by agroinfiltration. Confocal laser scanning microscopy revealed that NbPOR1:GFP was targeted normally to the chloroplasts in both TRV and TRV:NbCPP1 lines, suggesting that Nb-CPP1 deficiency did not significantly affect the import of Nb-POR1 into chloroplasts (see Supplemental Figure 10A online). Next, PORC:Flag was expressed in the leaves of TRV and TRV:NbCPP1 plants by agroinfiltration. Immunoblotting of the leaf protein extracts using anti-Flag antibodies detected only the proteolytically processed, mature form of PORC, but not its precursor form, in both TRV and TRV:NbCPP1 lines, suggesting normal import of PORC into chloroplasts (see Supplemental Figure 10B online). Finally, the PORC:Flag construct was transformed into Arabidopsis protoplasts isolated from the At-CPP1 RNAi plants that were sprayed with ethanol (−DEX) or DEX for 6 d. Immunoblotting of the protoplast protein extracts using anti-Flag antibodies detected only the mature form of PORC in both (−)DEX and (+)DEX samples, while the total POR protein level was reduced (see Supplemental Figure 10C online). These results suggest that chloroplast import of PORC was unaffected by At-CPP1 silencing. Taken together, these results suggest that CPP1 is required for POR stability rather than for import of POR into chloroplasts. Consistent with the protective function of CPP1 for POR, we found that POR proteins were susceptible to photooxidative stress (Figure 5E). Wild-type N. benthamiana plants in the eight-leaf stage grown under normal light conditions (60 μmol m−2 s−1) were transferred to high-light intensity (500 μmol m−2 s−1) and incubated for 0 to 72 h. The plants did not exhibit any visible symptoms until 48 h of treatment, but after 72 h showed a leaf yellowing phenotype, particularly in older leaves (Figure 5E). Immunoblotting revealed that Nb-POR protein accumulation progressively decreased until 48 h, despite the lack of leaf yellowing, while N. benthamiana CPP1, cpHSP70, atpB, and D1 protein levels remained constant throughout the period (Figure 5E). When immunoblotting was performed with green, pale-green, and yellow leaves collected from the plants at 72 h of treatment, CPP1, cpHSP70, and atpB protein levels were higher in green leaves than in pale-green or yellow leaves. POR protein accumulation was greatly reduced in yellow leaves at 72 h of high-light treatment (Figure 5E). However, we did not observe any increases in POR protein amounts in insoluble fractions, suggesting that POR proteins are degraded before being aggregated under high-light conditions. Interestingly, we repeatedly observed that D1 proteins disappeared in green leaves but were present in pale-green and yellow leaves at 72 h. This may be due to the fact that green leaves were located in the upper part of the plants and thus were exposed to higher light intensity. It has been reported that D1 proteins are easily degraded under high light conditions (CITATION). Taken together, these results suggest that Nb-POR protein is sensitive to photooxidative stress. To study the effects of CPP1 silencing during transition from dark to light, At-CPP1 RNAi seedlings were grown in the dark for 5 d and then transferred to light for 4 or 24 h on medium with or without DEX. When grown on medium with DEX, RNAi seedlings exhibited delayed greening and anthocyanin accumulation upon illumination (Figure 6A). Real-time quantitative RT-PCR shows that CPP1 was silenced in the DEX-inducible At-CPP1 RNAi seedlings upon DEX treatment during dark-to-light transition (Figure 6B, bottom). This analysis also showed that the CPP1 transcript level increased upon illumination (Figure 6B, bottom), consistent with an increase in CPP1 protein levels upon illumination in wild-type seedlings (Figure 6B, top). Immunoblotting revealed that illumination caused rapid degradation of POR proteins, accompanied by accumulation of CAB, D1, and rbcL in wild-type, (−)DEX, and (+)DEX RNAi seedlings (Figure 6C; see Supplemental Figure 11 online), consistent with the previous reports (CITATION; CITATION). Compared with (−)DEX and wild-type seedlings, dark-grown seedlings treated with DEX had less POR accumulation in etioplasts and delayed accumulation of the photosynthesis-related proteins upon illumination, consistent with the delayed greening phenotype. Transcription profiles demonstrated no effect of DEX on expression profiles of PORA, PORB, PORC, CHLH, and CHL27 (Figure 6D). PORA and PORB were downregulated by light, while PORC, CHLH, and CHL27 were induced by light. [[FIGURE]] TEM observation revealed that the cotyledons of etiolated (−)DEX RNAi seedlings displayed normal etioplasts with extensive PLBs and unstacked prothylakoids (Figure 6E). The PLB disappeared or shrank after 4 h of illumination, followed by formation of grana stacks after 24 h. Etioplasts of DEX-treated RNAi seedlings had either smaller PLBs or no PLB, and both phenotypes were simultaneously observed in a single cotyledon cell. Approximately 48.4% of (+)DEX etioplasts lacked a PLB, while only 10% of (−)DEX etioplasts lacked a PLB (see Supplemental Figure 12A online). Analyses of TEM pictures of the cotyledon sections using Image J software demonstrated that the average ratio of PLB area to etioplast area was 0.47 in (−)DEX and 0.22 in (+)DEX etioplasts, suggesting reduced PLB size in CPP1-deficient etioplasts (see Supplemental Figure 12B online). Furthermore, the thylakoid systems in DEX-treated etioplasts developed poorly even after 24 h of illumination and many plastids were degenerating by that time (Figure 6E). Dark-grown Arabidopsis seedlings that have defects in POR accumulation in etioplasts due to downregulation of POR gene expression show defective PLB formation (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION). These results suggest that CPP1 modulates POR protein accumulation and thereby affects PLB formation in etioplasts. Thus, CPP1 appears to play a crucial role in regulating POR function during dark-to-light transition as well as in light-adapted conditions. We next examined whether CPP1 has chaperone activity for POR by assessing its ability to prevent heat-induced denaturation and aggregation of POR proteins in vitro. To use NbPOR1:His as a substrate for chaperone assay, we first demonstrated that purified NbPOR1:His and Nb-POR1 proteins without a His tag (prepared by treatment with tobacco etch virus [TEV] protease) exhibited a similar pattern of protein aggregation in response to heat, and aggregation of Nb-POR proteins (without tag) was almost completely inhibited by MBP:NbCPP1 (see Supplemental Figure 13A online). Addition of purified MBP:NbCPP1 proteins suppressed thermal aggregation of NbPOR1:His in a concentration-dependent manner: A molar ratio of 2:1 (chaperone to substrate) completely suppressed aggregation (Figure 7A), whereas addition of MBP, glutathione S-transferase (GST), or MBP:NbRae1 fusion protein as a control had no effect (Figure 7F; see Supplemental Figure 13B online). Nb-Rae1 is a nuclear envelope protein of N. benthamiana. MBP:slr1918 also exhibited chaperone activity for NbPOR1:His, albeit weakly (Figure 7B). Nb-CPP1 lacking the JL domain (MBP:NbCPP1ΔJL) failed to prevent NbPOR1:His aggregation, indicating that the JL domain is required for chaperone activity (Figure 7C). However, the slr1918 JL domain alone [20(Met)-81(Lys); slr1918-JL] exhibited no chaperone activity for NbPOR1:His, suggesting that other regions of CPP1 are required for the activity (Figure 7G). These regions may play a role in maintaining the proper conformation of CPP1 for its chaperone activity in vitro. The transmembrane domain deletion mutants of Nb-CPP1 and slr1918 could not be expressed in E. coli. GST-fused N. benthamiana chloroplast HSP70 (CITATION; CITATION) (GST:NbcpHSP70) also exhibited chaperone activity for NbPOR1:His (Figure 7D), but there was no significant synergism when MBP:NbCPP1 and GST:NbcpHSP70 were combined in the presence or absence of ATP (Figure 7E; see Supplemental Figure 13C online). Thermal aggregation of NbPOR2:His was also suppressed by MBP:NbCPP1 (see Supplemental Figures 13D and 13E online). Taken together, these results indicate that CPP1 has holdase chaperone activity for POR proteins and that both the JL domain and the transmembrane domains are required for full activity. [[FIGURE]] We next tested whether CPP1 can prevent POR denaturation/aggregation induced by oxidative stress in vitro. NbPOR1:His proteins were aggregated at 30°C upon exposure to 1 mM hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) but not to water as a control, and addition of purified MBP:NbCPP1 proteins suppressed aggregation of NbPOR1:His in a concentration-dependent manner (Figure 7H). Addition of MBP:slr1918 also protected NbPOR1:His from H2O2-induced denaturation and aggregation (Figure 7I). Addition of GST as a control did not affect aggregation of NbPOR1:His in response to H2O2 (see Supplemental Figure 13F online). In addition, real-time quantitative RT-PCR analysis suggested that Nb-CPP1 mRNAs in leaves of N. benthamiana plants (eight-leaf stage) were ∼5.0- and 1.9-fold more abundant than Nb-POR1 and Nb-POR2 mRNAs, respectively (see Supplemental Figure 14 online). Collectively, these results support our proposal that CPP1 stabilizes POR proteins against photooxidative stress in chloroplasts. In cyanobacteria, Pchlide reduction in the dark exclusively depends on the light-independent DPOR (CITATION), but the contribution of POR increases with light intensity; under high intensity, Pchlide is exclusively reduced by POR (CITATION; CITATION). Cyanobacterial POR also seems to function as a scavenger for Pchlide, which can cause photooxidative damage upon illumination (CITATION). Synechocystis sp PCC6803 has a single CPP1 homolog, slr1918 (see Supplemental Figure 1C online). Wild-type and slr1918 knockout mutant Synechocystis strains grown under dim light (10 μmol m−2 s−1) were transferred to three different light conditions and incubated for 1 to 3 d under photoautotrophic conditions. Under low-light intensity (20 μmol m−2 s−1), both the wild type and slr1918 mutant strain grew well and synthesized chlorophyll normally (Figure 8A). However, under higher light intensity (100 and 150 μmol m−2 s−1), cell growth and chlorophyll synthesis were inhibited more strongly in the mutant than in the wild type. Immunoblotting revealed that the wild type and slr1918 mutant strains showed similar patterns of light-induced accumulation of POR proteins under low-light intensity (Figure 8B). However, under high-light intensity, much less POR protein accumulated in the mutant than in the wild type. Therefore, the POR-stabilizing function of slr1918 may be required for Pchlide reduction under high-light conditions when DPOR activity is suppressed by high oxygen evolution (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). By contrast, protein expression patterns of atpB, GluTR, rbcL, D1, and HSP70 were similar in both strains under different light conditions. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Columbia-0) and Nicotiana benthamiana plants were grown in a growth room at 23°C under a 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle. The T-DNA insertion mutant of Arabidopsis CPP1 (GK-852F12-025757) was obtained from GABI-Kat (www.gabi-kat.de/). The motile Synechocystis sp PCC 6803 wild-type strain and the slr1918 knockout mutant strain were grown on 1% BlueGreen-11 agar plates buffered with 10 mM TES-potassium hydroxide (KOH), pH 8.0, at 28°C under continuous white light (10 μmol m−2 s−1) as described (CITATION), before exposure to increased irradiance (20, 100, and 150 μmol m−2 s−1) for 3 d. Chloramphenicol (20 μg mL−1) was added to the growth medium for the slr1918 mutant that contains a gene conferring chloramphenicol resistance. The CPP1 homologous sequences from N. benthamiana, grape (Vitis vinifera), soybean (Glycine max), Populus trichocarpa, Arabidopsis, rice (Oryza sativa), maize (Zea mays), Physcomitrella patens, wheat (Triticum aestivum), Synechocystis sp PCC 6803, Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, and Picea sitchensis were aligned using the ClustalW program (http://www.ch.embnet.org/software/ClustalW.html). Mega phylogenetic trees for these data were analyzed using the MEGA 5.2.2 program (http://www.megasoftware.net/). The maximum likelihood tree was generated with the following parameters: Poisson model, uniform rates, complete deletion, and bootstrap (2000 replicates). The initial VIGS screening was performed with a partial Nb-CPP1 cDNA of 726 bp. To obtain the full-length Nb-CPP1 cDNA, 5′-rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) PCR was performed with mRNAs isolated from N. benthamiana seedlings using the SMART RACE cDNA amplification kit (BD Biosciences) according to the manufacturer’s manual. The gene-specific primers used for 5′-RACE PCR were NbCPP1-Gsp(1)/(2). Lists of primers and accession numbers of the genes used in this study are shown in Supplemental Tables 1 and 2 online, respectively. Information on various constructs and cloning methods is available in Supplemental Table 3 online. A 726-bp Nb-CPP1 cDNA fragment was amplified by PCR and cloned into the pTV00 vector containing part of the TRV genome, using the BamHI and ApaI sites. The Nb-POR1 and Nb-POR2 cDNA fragments were amplified by PCR with NbPOR1-VIGS(F)/(R) and NbPOR2-VIGS(F)/(R) primers, respectively. To achieve cosilencing of Nb-POR1 and Nb-POR2, the PCR product of Nb-POR1 (402 bp) was first cloned into pTV00 vector using the BamHI and ApaI sites, followed by the cloning of the Nb-POR2 fragment (400 bp) into the same plasmid using BamHI and SpeI sites. VIGS was performed as described (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). All primers used for cloning are listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. A 400-bp At-CPP1 cDNA fragment was amplified by PCR using AtCPP1-sense(F)/(R) primers containing XhoI and ClaI sites for the sense construct and AtCPP1-antisense(F)/(R) primers containing SpeI and EcoRI sites for the antisense construct. Using these constructs, DEX-inducible At-CPP1 RNAi transgenic Arabidopsis lines were generated as described (CITATION). For induction of RNAi, the transgenic seedlings were grown on medium containing 10 μM DEX in ethanol (0.033%). Alternatively, the RNAi seedlings were sprayed with 30 μM DEX in ethanol (0.033%) and Tween 20 (0.01% [w/v]). Agroinfiltration was performed as described (CITATION). Agrobacterium C58C1 cultures containing expression constructs were adjusted to OD600 = 0.6 in MES buffer (10 mM MES, pH 7.5, and 10 mM MgSO4). The suspension was incubated with acetosyringone for 2 to 3 h at a final concentration of 150 μM and infiltrated into leaves of N. benthamiana plants. In all infiltration experiments, Agrobacterium C58C1 carrying the 35S-p19 construct was coinfiltrated to achieve maximum levels of protein expression as described (CITATION). Expressed proteins were analyzed 24 to 48 h after infiltration. RT-PCR was performed with total RNA isolated from leaves of VIGS and RNAi lines with 15 to 35 cycles of amplification as described (CITATION). To measure the transcript levels in N. benthamiana, the following primers were used: CPP1, NbCPP1(F)/(R); POR1, NbPOR1(F)/(R); POR2, NbPOR2(F)/(R); and actin, Nbactin(F)/(R). To measure the transcript levels in Arabidopsis, the following primers were used: CPP1, AtCPP1(F)/(R); PORA, PORA(F)/(R); PORB, PORB(F)/(R); PORC, PORC(F)/(R); CHLH, CHLH(F)/(R); CHL27, CHL27(F)/(R); and UBC10, UBC10(F)/(R). Real-time quantitative PCR was performed as described (CITATION) using the following primers: Nb-CPP1, NbCPP1-qRT-PCR(F)/(R); Nb-β-tubulin, β-tubulin-qRT-PCR(F)/(R); At-CPP1, AtCPP1-qRT-PCR(F)/(R); and At-UBC10, UBC10-qRT-PCR(F)/(R). Chlorophyll precursors were extracted from N. benthamiana VIGS lines as described (CITATION). Spectrofluorometry was performed using a fluorescence spectrophotometer (Hitachi F-2000) at an excitation wavelength of 440 nm and an emission wavelength of 600 to 700 nm as described (CITATION). Yellow sectors of the fourth leaf above the infiltrated leaf were collected from the VIGS plants. Chlorophyll concentration per unit fresh weight was calculated as previously described (CITATION). Tissue sectioning and TEM were performed as described (CITATION), using the fourth or fifth leaf above the infiltrated leaf of the N. benthamiana VIGS lines 20 d after infiltration and the cotyledons of the etiolated Arabidopsis At-CPP1 RNAi seedlings grown on medium with or without DEX for 5 d. To detect the production of superoxide radicals in situ, NBT staining was performed as described (CITATION; CITATION). From chloroplasts isolated from N. benthamiana leaves, stroma, envelope, and thylakoid membranes were fractionated as described (CITATION). cDNAs of Nb-CPP1, Nb-POR1, and At-CPP1 corresponding to the full-length protein were cloned into the pCambia-GFP plasmid to generate GFP fusion proteins. EcoRI and NcoI sites were used for Nb-CPP1 and Nb-POR1 cDNAs, and BamHI and BglII sites were used for the At-CPP1 cDNA. The recombinant plasmids or the control vector were introduced into N. benthamiana leaves by agroinfiltration. Expression of the GFP fusion proteins was monitored 24 h after transformation using a confocal laser scanning microscope (Zeiss LSM510) as previously described (CITATION). For visualization of mitochondria, TMRM staining was performed, and TMRM fluorescence was detected by confocal laser scanning microscopy as described (CITATION). For BiFC, the coding regions of Nb-CPP1 and At-CPP1 were amplified by PCR and cloned into the pSPYNE vector containing the N-terminal region (amino acid residues 1 to 155) of the YFP, resulting in pSPYNE-NbCPP1 and pSPYNE-AtCPP1, respectively. N. benthamiana POR1, POR2, PORA, PORB, and PORC cDNAs were cloned into pSPYCE vector containing the C-terminal region of YFP (residues 156 to 239). Agrobacteria containing the pSPYNE and pSPYCE fusion constructs were agroinfiltrated together into leaves of 3-week-old N. benthamiana plants as described (CITATION). After 48 h, leaf discs or protoplasts were generated from the leaves, and the YFP signal was detected by confocal laser scanning microscopy and fluorescent microscopy. NbCPP1:Flag and NbPOR1:HA or NbCPP1:Flag and NbPOR2:HA fusion proteins were coexpressed in N. benthamiana leaves by agroinfiltration. In addition, NbCPP1:Flag and NbGUN4:HA or NbCPP1:Flag and NbCHLI2:HA fusion proteins were coexpressed by agroinfiltration as a control. After 48 h of incubation, chloroplast membranes were prepared from the leaves and solubilized using the solubilization buffer containing n-dodesyl β-d-maltoside as described (CITATION). The solubilized membrane fraction was incubated with 2 μg of anti-HA antibody (Applied Biological Materials) for 4 h at 4°C, followed by addition of 10 μL of Protein A-Sepharose beads (Fast Flow; Amersham Pharmacia) for a further 3-h incubation. After washing, the sepharose beads were resuspended in 2× SDS sample buffer and boiled, and the resin was precipitated by brief centrifugation. The supernatant was subjected to SDS-PAGE and immunoblotting using the monoclonal anti-Flag antibody (1:10,000; Sigma-Aldrich) and monoclonal anti-HA antibody (1:5000; Applied Biological Materials). To purify MBP:NbCPP1 and MBP:NbCPP1ΔJL, the Nb-CPP1 cDNA fragments corresponding to the amino acid residues 61(Trp)-252(Lys) and 112(Lys)-252(Lys), respectively, were amplified by PCR and cloned into pMAL c2 vector (New England Biolabs). To purify MBP:slr1918, the full-length coding region of the slr1918 gene was cloned into pMAL c2 vector. To purify GST:NbcpHSP70, the Nb-cpHSP70 cDNA fragment corresponding to the amino acid residues 62(Pro)-707(Lys) was cloned into pGEX-4T-1 vector (Amersham Pharmacia). The MBP and GST fusion proteins were purified following the manufacturer’s instructions using MBP Excellose resin and Glutathione Excellose resin, respectively (Bioprogen). To purify NbPOR1:His and NbPOR2:His, the Nb-POR1 and Nb-POR2 cDNA fragments corresponding to the amino acid residues 63(Ala)-396(Leu) and 66(Ile)-399(Ala), respectively, were amplified by PCR and cloned into the pET-29a vector (Novagen). The 6× His fusion proteins were purified using Nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid agarose (Qiagen) following the manufacturer’s instructions. To purify Nb-POR1 without epitope tag, the Nb-POR1 cDNA fragment described above was cloned into a modified pET-28a vector carrying six N-terminal His residues and a TEV cleavage site (CITATION). After purification of the protein using Nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid agarose (Qiagen), His tag was removed by TEV protease as described (CITATION). To purify slr1918-JL without tag, the slr1918 gene fragment corresponding to the amino acid residues 20(Met)-81(Lys) was cloned into the modified pET-28a vector, and protein purification and His tag removal were performed as described above. MBP, MBP:NbCPP1, and MBP:slr1918 proteins immobilized on MBP Excellose resin (Takara) were incubated with Escherichia coli lysates expressing NbPOR1:His or NbGUN4:His in buffer (50 mM HEPES, pH 7.5, 200 mM NaCl, and 10% glycerol) for 2 h at room temperature. After extensive washing of the resin, bound proteins were eluted with SDS sample buffer, and 25% of the eluted proteins were subjected to immunoblotting. Protein extracts (30 µg) were subjected to SDS-PAGE and immunoblotting as described (CITATION; CITATION). Anti-CPP1 antibodies were generated in rabbits against an oligopeptide, ASEEEIWASRNFLL, that corresponds to amino acid residues of At-CPP1 at positions 79 to 92 using the antibody production services of Cosmogenetech. Immunoblotting was performed using mouse monoclonal antibodies against the HA tag (1:10,000 dilution; Applied Biological Materials), the His tag (1:5000 dilution; Applied Biological Materials), and the Flag tag (1:10,000; Sigma-Aldrich), using rabbit polyclonal antibodies against CPP1 (1:2000; Cosmogenetech), using rabbit polyclonal antibodies against POR, rbcL, D1, atpB, psaA, cpHsp70, and GluTR (1:5000, 1:10,000, 1:5000, 1:10,000, 1:5000, 1:10,000, and 1:5000 dilution, respectively; Agrisera), or using goat polyclonal antibodies against CAB (1:5000; Santa Cruz Biotechnology). The membranes were then treated with horseradish peroxidase–conjugated goat anti-mouse IgG antibodies (1:10,000; Invitrogen), goat anti-rabbit antibodies (1:10,000; Invitrogen), or donkey anti-goat antibodies (1:10,000; Santa Cruz Biotechnology), respectively. Signals were detected on x-ray film (Kodak) using an ECL chemiluminescence kit (ELPIS-Biotech). POR import into chloroplasts was analyzed as described (CITATION). Flag-tagged PORC proteins were transiently expressed in leaves of TRV control and TRV:NbCPP1 VIGS lines. After 16 h of incubation, total proteins were extracted from the leaves and subjected to SDS-PAGE and immunoblotting with anti-Flag antibody (1:10,000; Sigma-Aldrich) to detect expressed PORC proteins. In vitro transcription and translation of the precursor form of PORC was performed using a wheat germ extract system (Promega) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. NbPOR1:His (1.6 μM) was incubated in 50 mM HEPES-KOH, pH 8.0, buffer at 43°C with various concentrations of MBP:NbCPP1, MBP:NbCPP1∆JL, MBP:slr1918, slr1918∆TM, or GST:NbcpHSP70. In addition, NbPOR1:His (1.6 μM) was incubated with both MBP:NbCPP1 (at various concentrations) and GST:NbcpHSP70 (0.16 μM) to observe any synergistic effects on chaperone activity. NbPOR2:His (1.6 μM) was incubated in 50 mM HEPES-KOH, pH 8.0, buffer at 45°C with various concentrations of MBP:NbCPP1. Aggregation of NbPOR1:His (1.6 μM) in response to 1 mM H2O2 or water was examined for 20 min at 30°C with different amounts of MBP:NbCPP1 and MBP:slr1918. Aggregation of NbPOR1:His or NbPOR2:His induced by heat or H2O2 was determined by monitoring the turbidity increase (A340) at 2-min intervals using a temperature-controlled spectrophotometer (DU800; Beckman) as described (CITATION). DNA constructs for generating the slr1918 knockout mutant were prepared using a fusion PCR cloning strategy (CITATION). Briefly, fragment A including the slr1918 5′-upstream flanking region and the slr1918 start codon was amplified by PCR with slr1918-fA(F)/(R) primers using genomic DNA as template. Fragment B, including the slr1918 stop codon and the 3′-downstream region, was amplified by PCR using slr1918-fB(F)/(R) primers. The overlapping ends of fragment A, the chloramphenicol resistance cassette, and fragment B were annealed at 55°C for three-piece PCR fusion as described (CITATION). The amplified DNA fragment was then ligated into the blunt-end cloning vector TOP Cloner (Enzynomics). The recombinant plasmid was transformed into Synechocystis wild-type strains as described previously (CITATION). Two-tailed Student’s t tests were performed using the Minitab 16 program to determine the statistical differences between the samples. Accession numbers for the genes used in this study are shown in Supplemental Table 2 online. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Protein Structure, Phylogenetic Tree, and Sequence Alignment of CPP1. Supplemental Figure 2. Computational Modeling of the CPP1 J-Like Domain. Supplemental Figure 3. An Embryo-Lethal Phenotype of the Arabidopsis cpp1 Null Mutant. Supplemental Figure 4. Chloroplast Defects in TRV:NbCPP1 VIGS Lines. Supplemental Figure 5. Light Sensitivity of the DEX-Inducible At-CPP1 RNAi Seedlings. Supplemental Figure 6. Bimolecular Fluorescence Complementation Analyses. Supplemental Figure 7. Control Coimmunoprecipitation Experiments. Supplemental Figure 8. Stability of POR in Different Arabidopsis DEX-Inducible At-CPP1 RNAi Lines. Supplemental Figure 9. Fluorescence Emission Spectrum Showing Relative Fluorescence of Pchlide (Fluorescence Emission Maximum at 636 nm). Supplemental Figure 10. Analyses of POR Import into Chloroplasts. Supplemental Figure 11. POR Protein Levels during Dark-to-Light Transition in the Wild-Type Arabidopsis Plants. Supplemental Figure 12. Quantification of Prolamellar Bodies in Etioplasts of DEX-Inducible At-CPP1 RNAi Seedlings. Supplemental Figure 13. Control Experiments for Chaperone Assay. Supplemental Figure 14. Relative mRNA Levels of Nb-CPP1, Nb-POR1, and Nb-POR2. Supplemental Table 1. List of Primers Used in This Study. Supplemental Table 2. Accession Numbers. Supplemental Table 3. Constructs. Supplemental Data Set 1. Sequence Alignments Used for the Phylogenetic Analysis Shown in Supplemental Figure 1B.
