!~ABS~! In Arabidopsis thaliana, the endogenous danger peptides, AtPeps, have been associated with plant defences reminiscent of those induced in pattern-triggered immunity. AtPeps are perceived by two homologous receptor kinases, PEPR1 and PEPR2, and are encoded in the C termini of the PROPEP precursors. Here, we report that, contrary to the seemingly redundant AtPeps, the PROPEPs fall at least into two distinct groups. As revealed by promoter–β-glucuronidase studies, expression patterns of PROPEP1–3, -5, and -8 partially overlapped and correlated with those of the PEPR1 and -2 receptors, whereas those of PROPEP4 and -7 did not share any similarities with the former. Moreover, bi-clustering analysis indicated an association of PROPEP1, -2, and -3 with plant defence, whereas PROPEP5 expression was related to patterns of plant reproduction. In addition, at the protein level, PROPEPs appeared to be distinct. PROPEP3::YFP (fused to yellow fluorescent protein) was present in the cytosol, but, in contrast to previous predictions, PROPEP1::YFP and PROPEP6::YFP localized to the tonoplast. Together with the expression patterns, this could point to potentially non-redundant roles among the members of the PROPEP family. By contrast, their derived AtPeps, including the newly reported AtPep8, when applied exogenously, provoked activation of defence-related responses in a similar manner, suggesting a high level of functional redundancy between the AtPeps. Taken together, our findings reveal an apparent antagonism between AtPep redundancy and PROPEP variability, and indicate new roles for PROPEPs besides plant immunity.
!~RES~! In order to gain insights into the sequence homology of PROPEPs compared with other precursors of plant signalling peptides, we searched the Arabidopsis genome and identified AT5G09976 as a new member of the PROPEP family. It clustered with the other seven PROPEPs, despite an overall low sequence homology, and its C terminus contained the conserved AtPep motif SSG-x2-G-x2-N (Fig. 1A). According to sequence similarity, PROPEP4 was the closest homologue of AT5G09976. Moreover, addition of a synthetic peptide based on the last 23 aa of AT5G09976 (Fig. 1A, highlighted with a red bar) triggered similar responses in Arabidopsis plants to the other AtPeps (see below). Thus, we designated AT5G09976 as PROPEP8. Further searches for non-annotated sequences with similarity to the PROPEPs did not reveal any further PROPEP in Arabidopsis. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] PROPEPs are thought to assist via the release of AtPeps in biotic stress resistance, but their individual roles have not been investigated in detail (CITATION; CITATION). Whereas AtPeps are assumed to act rather redundantly, little is known about the spatial and temporal expression of PROPEPs. It has been shown that PROPEPs respond with slight differences to treatments with methyl jasmonate, methyl salicylate, and AtPeps (CITATION). In order to get a better idea about potential redundance as well as specific expression patterns of the PROPEPs in the context of biotic stress resistance, we performed a bi-clustering analysis focusing on 278 biotic stress-related microarrays that were downloaded from the TAIR website (ftp://ftp.arabidopsis.org/Microarrays/analyzed_data). Thus, the 22 810 probes (representing genes) present on the Affymetrix 25K arrays used were grouped based on their expression patterns over the various biotic stress treatments. Genes with similar expression patterns grouped more closely together, as indicated by the dendrogram, and became part of a subgroup (subclusters). Enrichment of GO terms within one subcluster could be used to get indications about the function of the genes in this subcluster. Moreover, the relative distance of genes within the main cluster showed the diversity of regulation of these genes. PROPEP-containing clusters were selected by setting an individual cut-off within the dendrogram for each PROPEP gene to yield a cluster with <500 genes (Fig. 2). PROPEP7 and PROPEP8 are not spotted on the arrays used, and therefore no bi-cluster analysis could be performed for these precursors. Of the family members PROPEP1–6, only PROPEP2 and -3 clustered together, indicating that most of the PROPEPs are expressed in different ways upon treatment with various biotic stimuli. To get an indication of which processes the individual PROPEPs are involved in, a GO term enrichment analysis was performed on the obtained clusters, the top five terms of which are shown in Fig. 2. Most enriched GO terms within the top five of each cluster represented a relatively broad description of a process. To also provide data on the more specific processes that are underlying the expression of these clusters, a full overview of all major and minor enriched GO terms for each PROPEP is provided in Supplementary Table S1 at JXB online. As most PROPEPs appeared to be involved in very different processes besides biotic stress resistance, a co-expression analysis followed by a GO term analysis on a set of abiotic or development-related microarrays was also performed (Supplementary Table S2 at JXB online). These results further supported the idea that PROPEP transcription seems to be regulated individually and does not follow a general pattern valid for all PROPEPs. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The PROPEP that had the most similar global expression pattern compared with PROPEP2 and -3 was PROPEP1, but, besides the shared enriched defence-associated GO terms (Fig. 2), they also had some characteristically different enriched GO terms. The PROPEP1 cluster revealed an additional enrichment of GO terms related to abiotic stress, hypoxia, and abscisic acid signalling, whereas the PROPEP2 and -3 cluster was also associated with salicylic acid signalling, (programmed) cell death, and (transmembrane) ion transport (Supplementary Tables S1 and Supplementary Data). Distinct from these more defence-associated PROPEPs was the cluster of PROPEP5 that was enriched for processes related to reproduction and shared the enrichment for gibberellin/terpenoid biosynthesis and lipid signalling with PROPEP6. The most directly noticeable different PROPEP in Fig. 2 was PROPEP4, whose expression was induced in conditions where all the other PROPEPs were repressed and vice versa. As the cluster of PROPEP4 contained only 25 genes, it was too small to result in any enriched GO terms. To circumvent this, the genes that were co-expressed with PROPEP4 given a Pearson correlation coefficient cut-off of >0.60 were used to perform a GO term enrichment analysis. This resulted in an enrichment of organismal development-, developmental processes-, and chromosome/chromatin organization-associated GO terms. To further diversify the view on PROPEP regulation, we also analysed the type of treatments and/or conditions that had the strongest influence on the expression of each PROPEP; a full overview of treatments, conditions, and their influence on expression is given in Supplementary Table S3 at JXB online. Here we found, in agreement with the bi-clustering analysis, PROPEP1 to be highly induced by abiotic stress treatments like salt, drought, and osmotic stress, whereas for example, PROPEP5 transcription was highest in certain developmental stages of seeds and flowers. Overall, our analysis indicated that, in contrast to AtPeps, the transcriptional regulation of PROPEPs is most likely non-redundant. Moreover, based on these findings, we suggest that individual PROPEPs could play a role in very distinct functions in Arabidopsis, as they appear to be associated not only with defence but also with processes ranging from abiotic stress resistance to development and reproduction. To investigate further the potential difference in PROPEP expression at the tissue level, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis lines containing the putative promoter sequences of the PROPEP genes fused to GUS. As shown in Fig. 3, the promoters of PROPEP1, -2, and -3 exhibited similar expression patterns. These promoters conferred expression mainly in the root excluding the root tip. In adult leaves, even after 24h of staining, nearly no blue precipitate was visible indicating, very low activity of these promoters without stimuli. In contrast, wounding of leaves using forceps led to a clear induction of these PROPEP promoters, which was restricted to the vasculature (Fig. 3, yellow arrows). Besides the great overlap between the expression patterns of the promoters of PROPEP1, -2, and -3, the latter also produced GUS staining in the anthers of flowers. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The promoters of PROPEP5 and -8 were also active in the root but restricted to the vascular tissue, reminiscent of the promoter of PEPR2 (see below). They shared with the promoters of PROPEP1–3 the wound inducibility in the central vasculature of adult leaves. However, whereas the promoter of PROPEP5 showed strong activity in the leaf veins, the promoter of PROPEP8 did not produce any GUS staining in untreated leaves. In addition, they produced distinct staining in adult flowers. The promoter of PROPEP5 was highly active in the filaments of flowers (Fig. 3, white arrow), whereas that of PROPEP8 was active in all flower tissues except for the petals. Thus, the promoters of PROPEP5 and -8 partially shared their expression patterns with those of the promoters of PROPEP1–3 but also showed differences from them and among each other. Intriguingly, the activity of the promoters of PROPEP4 and -7 were restricted to the tips of primary and lateral roots (Fig. 3, red arrows), whereas neither the other PROPEP promoters nor the promoters of PEPR1 and -2 (see below) conferred any obvious GUS expression. Moreover, expression of the promoters of PROPEP4 and -7 was not detected in flowers and was not induced by wounding. Taken together, the promoter-mediated expression patterns of the PROPEPs fell clearly into two distinct groups. Group 1, which comprised the promoters of PROPEP1, -2, -3, -5, and -8, showed expression in the roots and slightly in the leaf vasculature. They were inducible by wounding. Group 2, containing the promoters of PROPEP4 and -7, was not inducible by wounding and the basal expression was restricted to the root tips. Next we generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants constitutively expressing PROPEP::YFP fusion proteins to assess their subcellular localization. It has been hypothesized that all PROPEPs localize to the cytoplasm based on the predicted function and the lack of an identifiable localization signal (CITATION). In line with this hypothesis, PROPEP3::YFP localized to the cytoplasm (Fig. 4A). However, our findings with PROPEP1::YFP and PROPEP6::YFP were rather surprising and showed that these precursor proteins were associated with the tonoplast. To clearly distinguish the tonoplast from the plasma membrane, we performed a brief FM4-64 staining (Fig. 4A, red), which is often used to image the plasma membrane. The overlay confirmed that the YFP fluorescence and that emitted from FM4-64 did not overlap. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To exclude the possibility that subcellular localization was dependent on the cell type, we imaged epidermal cells of cotelydons as well as root epidermal cells and observed that the localization patterns were the same. In contrast, a fusion protein of just the C-terminal part of PROPEP1, which represents AtPep1, with YFP produced a cytosolic localization, indicating that the association of PROPEP1 with the tonoplast seemed to depend on the N-terminal part of PROPEP1 and was not due to binding of AtPep1 to an as yet unidentified tonoplast-localized protein (Fig. 4B). In order to test further the association of PROPEP1::YFP with the tonoplast, we performed plasmolysis triggered by a brief treatment with 500mM NaCl. As shown in Fig. 4C, the YFP fluorescence remained at the tonoplast of the shrunken vacuoles. These findings demonstrated that members of the PROPEP family are present at two different subcellular compartments, the cytosol and the tonoplast. This might indicate non-redundant functions between the PROPEPs at the protein level or an as yet not understood level of complexity of their involvement in cellular immunity. Moreover, it provides evidence for a potential role of PROPEP1 and -6 associated with the vacuole. AtPeps are known to be detected by two homologous receptors, PEPR1 and PEPR2 (CITATION; CITATION). To investigate the potential overlap of the expression patterns between the two PEPRs and the PROPEPs, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis lines containing the putative promoter sequences of the PEPR promoters fused to GUS. As shown in Fig. 5, both promoters conferred expression in the vascular tissue of roots and leaves. No PEPR1/2 promoter-mediated GUS expression was observed in root tips. Focusing on the expression in roots, the activity of the PEPR2 promoter was more restricted to the central cylinder of the root, whereas GUS expression of the PEPR1 promoter was present in most root tissues. Additionally, GUS expression mediated by the PEPR1/2 promoters was detected in stems but was almost absent in flowers. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] When comparing the expression patterns between the receptors and the precursors, the PEPR1/2 promoter-mediated expression showed partially overlapping patterns with PROPEP1, -2, -3, -5, and -8. By contrast, PROPEP4 and -7 promoter-mediated expression was exclusive to the root tip, a tissue where the PEPRs were not expressed. These results showed that, whereas the promoters of PEPR1 and -2 significantly overlapped in their conferred expression patterns, they shared only a small overlap with the expression patterns generated by the PROPEP promoters. This indicates potential new, unknown roles for at least PROPEP4 and -7 independent of PEPRs. Previous studies showing that AtPeps triggered alkalinization in cell cultures and induced resistance to P. syringae infection in plants provided evidence that some AtPeps are functionally redundant (CITATION; CITATION). To address the extent of functional redundancy among all known AtPeps, we monitored the activation of MAPK, the release of ethylene, and the inhibition of seedling growth stimulated by the eight AtPeps in the single and double pepr1 pepr2 receptor mutants. As shown in Fig. 6, all eight AtPeps activated the stress-related MAPKs MPK3 and -6, induced the production of ethylene, and inhibited seedling growth in a PEPR1- and partially PEPR2-dependent manner. Notably, AtPep3–8 were not perceived in the pepr1 mutant, indicating that PEPR2, which is active in this mutant, does not perceive these peptides and thus is specific for AtPep1 and -2, whereas the pepr2 mutant responded to all peptides, indicating that PEPR1 recognizes all eight AtPeps in a similar way (Fig. 6). Taken together, all eight AtPeps triggered a similar set of defence responses reminiscent of PTI in a PEPR1- and partially PEPR2-dependent manner. Thus, in contrast to the PROPEPs, the AtPeps as well as PEPRs appear to be highly redundant. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Mature Arabidopsis plants were grown in individual pots at 21 °C and an 10h photoperiod for 4–5 weeks. For induction of flowering, plants were moved to a 16h photoperiod. For preparation of sterile seedlings, A. thaliana seeds were surface sterilized with 70% ethanol and plated on half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 1% sucrose and 0.5% Phytagel (Sigma-Aldrich), stratiﬁed for at least 2 d at 4 °C, and then germinated at 21 °C in continuous light (MLR-350; Sanyo). The T-DNA insertion lines SALK_059281 (pepr1) and SALK_098161 (pepr2) were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (Nottingham, UK) and are in the Col-0 accession background. The PROPEP and PEPR putative promoter sequences were amplified by PCR from genomic Col-0 DNA with specific primers (see Supplementary Table S4 at JXB online for primers and promoter sequences). The obtained sequences were introduced into the binary destination vector pBGWFS7 (CITATION) using Gateway-based cloning. PROPEPs were cloned from Col-0 cDNA using gene-specific primers (Supplementary Table S4). Introducing PROPEP sequences into the binary destination vector pEarley101 by Gateway-based recombination led to the in-frame fusion of YFP to their C-terminal ends (CITATION). Arabidopsis plants were transformed by Agrobacterium tumefaciens using the ﬂoral dip method (CITATION). Peptides of flg22 (QRLSTGSRINSAKDDAAGLQIA), AtPep1 (AT KVKAKQRGKEKVSSGRPGQHN), AtPep2 (DNKAKSKKRD KEKPSSGRPGQTNSVPNAAIQVYKED), AtPep3 (EIKARGKN KTKPTPSSGKGGKHN), AtPep4 (GLPGKKNVLKKSRESSG KPGGTNKKPF), AtPep5 (SLNVMRKGIRKQPVSSGKRGGV NDYDM), AtPep6 (ITAVLRRRPRPPPYSSGRPGQNN), AtPep7 (VSGNVAARKGKQQTSSGKGGGTN), AtPep8 (GGVIVKSK KAARELPSSGKPGRRN) obtained from EZBiolabs were dissolved in a solution containing 1mg ml–1 of bovine serum albumin and 0.1M NaCl to get peptide stocks of 100 μM. Further dilutions were done with water. Bi-clustering and co-expression analysis was performed as described by CITATION, with the following minor modifications: for bi-clustering, the Euclidean distance measure was used. To obtain separate clusters containing the PROPEPs, the first cluster within the dendogram containing less than 500 genes was selected. For gene annotations into biological categories, the AmiGO Term Enrichment software was employed (CITATION). For categorization of enriched gene ontology (GO) terms, the CateGOrizer tool (CITATION) using Plant GO-Slim terms was used, applying the consolidated single occurrences count option. Supplementary Table S2 at JXB online provides a list of the Affymetrix 25K microarrays from NASCArrays and AtGenExpress (downloaded from ftp://ftp.arabidopsis.org/). Plant tissue was fixed in ice-cold 90% acetone for 20min, washed with water, and then placed in GUS staining buffer [1mM 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl β-d-glucuronide (Gold BioTechnology, St Louis, Missouri, USA), 100mM sodium phosphate (pH 7.5), 0.5mM potassium ferricyanide, 0.5mM potassium ferrocyanide, 10mM EDTA, and 0.1% (v/v) Triton X-100] at 37 °C for 2h (seedlings) or 24h (adult leaves). Plant tissue was cleared with 70% (v/v) ethanol and photographed using an Olympus SZX12 binocular microscope in combination with an Olympus DP72 camera and the CellSens imaging software (Olympus America, Pennsylvania, USA). Seven-d-old seedlings expressing the PROPEP::YFP and Pep1::YFP fusions were stained for 5min in an aqueous solution containing FM4-64 (SynaptoRed; Sigma-Aldrich) diluted at 5 μg ml–1 and washed for 5min in water prior to imaging using an SP5 Leica confocal microscope. YFP (500–560nm) and FM4-64 (620–650nm) fluorescence was recorded simultaneously after excitation at 488nm using a ×63 water-immersion objective. Plasmolysis was achieved by mounting roots in 500mM NaCl solution for 2min prior to imaging. For measurement of ethylene accumulation, five seedlings (5 d after germination) were harvested into a 6ml glass vial containing 0.1ml of ddH2O, placed back into the growth chamber, and left overnight (~16h). Peptides were added to 1 μM final concentration and the vials were closed and made air-tight with rubber septa. After 5h of incubation on a shaker (100rpm) at room temperature, ethylene accumulating in the free air space was measured by gas chromatography (GC-14A Shimadzu). Ten seedlings (10 d after germination) were placed into 0.5ml of sterile water and left floating overnight (16h). Peptides were added to a final concentration of 1 μM. After 15min, seedlings were shock frozen and ground to a fine powder before the addition of 80 μl of extraction buffer [0.35M Tris/HCl (pH 6.8), 30% (v/v) glycerol, 10% SDS, 0.6M dithiothreitol, 0.012% (w/v) bromphenol blue]. After boiling for 5min, 10 μl of the total cellular protein extract was separated by 12% SDS-PAGE and electrophoretically transferred to a polyvinylidene ﬂuoride membrane according to the manufacturer’s instructions (Millipore). We used primary monoclonal antibodies against phospho-p44/42 MAP kinase (Cell Signaling Technologies) and actin (Sigma-Aldrich), with alkaline phosphatase-conjugated anti-rabbit and anti-mouse immunoglobulins (Sigma-Aldrich) as secondary antibodies, as required. Signal detection was performed using CDPstar (Roche). At 5 d after germination, sterile seedlings were transferred to liquid MS medium supplied with the peptides at 1 μM final concentration (one seedling per 500 μl of medium in 24-well plates). The effect of treatment with different peptides on seedling growth was analysed after 10 d by determining fresh weight.
