!~ABS~! S-nitrosoglutathione reductase (GSNOR) is believed to modulate effects of reactive oxygen and nitrogen species through catabolism of S-nitrosoglutathione (GSNO). We combined bioinformatics of plant GSNOR genes, localization of GSNOR in Arabidopsis thaliana, and microarray analysis of a GSNOR null mutant to gain insights into the function and regulation of this critical enzyme in nitric oxide (NO) homeostasis. GSNOR-encoding genes are known to have high homology across diverse eukaryotic taxa, but contributions of specific conserved residues have not been assessed. With bioinformatics and structural modeling, we show that plant GSNORs likely localize to the cytosol, contain conserved, solvent-accessible cysteines, and tend to be encoded by a single gene. Arabidopsis thaliana homozygous for GSNOR loss-of-function alleles exhibited defects in stem and trichome branching, and complementation with Green fluorescent protein (GFP) -tagged GSNOR under control of the native promoter quantitatively rescued these phenotypes. GSNOR-GFP showed fluorescence throughout Arabidopsis seedlings, consistent with ubiquitous expression of the protein, but with especially high fluorescence in the root tip, apical meristem, and flowers. At the cellular level we observed cytosolic and nuclear fluorescence, with exclusion from the nucleolus. Microarray analysis identified 99 up- and 170 down-regulated genes (≥2-fold; p ≤ 0.01) in a GSNOR null mutant compared to wild type. Six members of the plant specific, ROXY glutaredoxins and three BHLH transcription factors involved in iron homeostasis were strongly upregulated, supporting a role for GSNOR in redox and iron metabolism. One third of downregulated genes are linked to pathogen resistance, providing further basis for the reported pathogen sensitivity of GSNOR null mutants. Together, these findings indicate GSNOR regulates multiple developmental and metabolic programs in plants and offer insight into putative routes of post-translational GSNOR regulation.
!~RES~! To identify potentially novel shared motifs in plant GSNORs, we employed the tblastn algorithms of Phytozome (Goodstein et al., [B23]) and NCBI Gene Expression Omnibus (Altschul et al., [B4]) to search for GSNOR sequences supported by transcriptional data. Eighteen unique, type III ADH-encoding cDNAs were obtained from a variety of monocots, dicots, mosses, and protists. Residues near the dimer interface of tomato GSNOR (Kubienová et al., [B32]), whose mutation compromises thermotolerance in dark grown Arabidopsis seedlings (Lee et al., [B35]), are notably found in all plant sequences, while a glycine that when mutated to aspartate diminishes GSNOR activity, but confers enhanced paraquat resistance (Chen et al., [B9]), is present in all but two algae (Figure [F1]). Substrate- and NADH-enclosing clefts (Figure [F1], black dotted boxes) are identical or contain conservative substitutions among moss and algal orthologs. Structural and catalytic zinc-coordinating residues (Figure [F1], solid black and solid red boxes, respectively) and substrate-binding amino acids (red asterisks), as reported by Kubienová et al. ([B32]), are identical in all but two predicted proteins, which contain a single lysine to arginine, conservative substitution. GSNOR is remarkably cysteine rich, with a mole percent cysteine of 3.84 % for the Arabidopsis protein, compared to the 1.37 % average for all proteins in the UniProtKB database (2013). Because cysteines can serve as key post-translational regulatory sites being modified by nitrosation, glutathionylation, or reversible oxidation, we analyzed the conservation of the nine extra non-zinc-coordinating cysteine residues (ex-zinc cysteines) in Arabidopsis GSNOR. Four are in all the transcript-supported plant sequences, two are substituted in one, two are substituted in two, and one differs in four organisms (Figure [F1], solid and open black arrowheads), yielding an overall conservation of 93.8 % (i.e., on average, each cysteine is present in 17 of the 18 sequences). If additional plant genes are considered for which EST support is lacking, ex-zinc cysteine conservation is still 91.0% (Supp. Figure [SM1]—see Supp. Table [SM2] for accession codes). Thus, the position and frequency of ex-zinc cysteines are highly conserved in plant GSNORs. We also examined the position of ex-zinc cysteines in the Arabidopsis GSNOR structure (PDB 4JJI, via (PyMOL) and found that three were solvent accessible (Cys-10, Cys-271, and Cys-370, Figures [F2]), two of which—Cys-10 and Cys-271—are positionally conserved even in the human sequence. The structures of GSNOR from human (1MP0) and tomato (4DL9) showed similar solvent exposure of the homologous ex-zinc cysteines, suggesting these three residues may have conserved functions in regulating GSNOR activity. Of nine positionally-conserved ex-zinc cysteines in GSNOR three are solvent-accessible. Three orientations (rotation angles indicated) of a monomer of the Arabidopsis GSNOR dimer are shown with solvent accessible surface (PDB 4JJI, 1.8 Å res., Rfree = 0.223) in yellow. Solvent-accessible ex-zinc cysteines are indicated in blue, and the dimer interface in gray. Images were made in PyMOL. Encoded by a single gene, Arabidopsis GSNOR consists of nicotinamide cofactor-binding and catalytic domains and has two primary enzymatic activities—GSNO reductase and HMGSH dehydrogenase (Lee et al., [B35]; Crotty, [B13]; Kubienová et al., [B32]). Interestingly, although GSNOR is found primarily as a single-copy gene in most other examined plant species (12 of 15 transcript-supported organisms, and 35 of 41 green plants analyzed), the dicots Populus trichocarpa (poplar) and Gossypium raimondii (diploid cotton) and the moss Physcomitrella patens (Physcomitrella) are predicted to have two GSNORs. Although not yet supported by transcript data, gene families are also predicted in Phaseolus vulgaris (bean), Glycine max (soybean), and Malus domestica (apple; Supp. Figure [SM1]). Moreover, in phylogenetic trees calculated by the average distance method with EvolView (Zhang et al., [B71]), paralogs within the same species were more similar to one another than to orthologs in other species (data not shown). Thus, not only do most plant genomes encode one copy of GSNOR, but duplication of GSNOR-encoding genes has occurred recently and sporadically among plant species. Extended N-termini, which could facilitate organelle targeting, are present in predicted GSNOR sequences from Prunus persica (peach) and Physcomitrella (Figure [F1]). Therefore, the Predotar (Small et al., [B51]) program was used to search for putative endomembrane, plastid, and mitochondrial targeting peptides in all GSNORs. Of 50 input sequences, only one Physcomitrella paralog was predicted to have a mitochondrial targeting peptide. Analysis with MITOPROT (Claros, [B10]) achieved similar results. Intriguingly, 5′ intragenic regions of GSNORs from Arabidopsis, rice, and Selaginella moellendorfii included cryptic splice sites that could give rise to putative mitochondrial targeting peptides, but intragenic regions from tomato, potato, Medicago, and O. lucimarinus did not. These results suggest GSNOR is a cytosolic enzyme in most plants. We also noted predicted N- and C-terminal extensions in non-transcript-supported orthologs from two strains of Micromonas pusilla (an alga) and in apple that are too long to be signaling peptides (Supp. Figure [SM1]). BLAST searches indicated M. pusilla extensions were formylglutathione hydrolase (FGH) domains, which catalyze the decomposition of S-formylglutathione (FGSH) to GSH and formate. FGHs are predicted in many green plants, albeit as separate gene products. FGSH is the product of the HMGSH dehydrogenase activity of GSNOR and is a key intermediate in formaldehyde detoxification (Staab et al., [B53]). This observation suggests that, at least in the case of M. pusilla strains, NO and formaldehyde metabolism are intimately linked. The C-terminus of an apple GSNOR comprises a 4,5-DOPA dioxygenase (DOD), an enzyme in the biosynthesis of phenylpropanoid-derived betalain pigments that aid in plant defense (Georgiev et al., [B21]), but transcriptional support has not been obtained for this fusion. To determine the major sites of GSNOR function, we created a translational fusion of GPF at the C-terminus of GSNOR driven by native promoter sequence and transformed this construct into the GSNOR null mutant hot5-2 (Lee et al., [B35]). We carried forward three homozygous transgenic lines that express GSNOR-GFP (Figure [F3]). Mutation of GSNOR results in reduced plant height and an increased number of inflorescences (Lee et al., [B35]; Kwon et al., [B33]). We quantified these differences in mature plants and found that while hot5-2 and hot5-4 null mutants and corresponding wild-types (Col-0 and WS, respectively) produce a similar number of first-order inflorescence stems (arising from the rosette), mutants produce two-fold more second-order branches and often produce third-order branches, which are not observed in wild-type plants (Figures [F3]). All three complemented lines showed quantitative restoration of wild-type height and branching patterns (Figures [F3]), indicating that the GFP fusion did not compromise GSNOR function. We further observed reduced trichome branching in hot5 null plants (Figures [F3]), a previously unreported phenotype. Mutants primarily produced trichomes with only two branches, rather than the three or four typical of wild type (Figure [F3]). 70% of hot5-2 trichomes were two-branched compared to virtually zero in Col, and similar differences were detected between WS and hot5-4 (Figure [F3]). The absolute number of trichomes was marginally higher in WS leaves compared with those of hot5-4, in agreement with Holzmeister et al. ([B28]), while trichome abundance did not differ between Col and hot5-2 (Figure [F3], lower panel), indicating the difference in trichome number must be due to a modifying gene present only in the WS background. Quantitation of trichome branching in the complemented lines showed that the GSNOR-GFP fusion protein restored branching to wild-type levels (Figures [F3]). Expression of GSNOR-GFP under its own promoter rescues multiple aspects of the hot5-2 null phenotype. (A) Immunoblots of leaf protein extracts probed with anti-Arabidopsis GSNOR antibodies (top) or anti-cytosolic GAPDH blots (middle). Rubisco large subunit (Coomassie stain, bottom). Plant genotypes are as indicated with CG1, 2, and 3 being independent homozygous T3 lines expressing GSNOR::GSNOR-GFP in the hot5-2 background. (B) Shoot systems of indicated genetic backgrounds with primary inflorescence overlaid in red. Bar: 5 cm. (C,D) Shorter plant height (C) and inflorescence branching order (D) are rescued to wild-type levels in CG1, 2, and 3. (E) Trichomes with reduced branching are more numerous in hot5-2 and hot5-4 rosette leaves than in respective wild-type backgrounds. Error bars: STD (F) Left to right: trichomes from hot5-2, Col, Col. Bar: 0.2 mm. Red Arrows indicate trichome branches. (G) Trichome branching is rescued to wild-type levels in CG1, 2, and 3. Based on complementation of hot5 phenotypes, the GFP fusion seemed suitable to assess GSNOR localization. Whole seedlings at the cotyledon stage and flower stage 13 were imaged to observe the tissue and subcellular localization of GSNOR-GFP (Figure [F4]). Fluorescence was observed throughout seedling and floral structures (Figures [F4]), which correlates with gene expression data in public databases (Toufighi et al., [B59]). The seedling apical meristem and root tip exhibited notably intense fluorescence (Figures [F4]), while cotyledon, hypocotyl, root, and petal vascular tissue signals were highest (Figures [F4]). Detailed observation of sections through the root tip (Figures [F4]) show distribution in all root cell types with diffuse cytosolic and nuclear localization, but dramatic exclusion from the nucleolus. This is also evident in the elongating zone of the root, although nucleoli are considerably smaller in these cells (Figure [F4]). GSNOR-GFP could also be detected in anther filaments, ovary, stigma, and petals (Figures [F4]) of stage 14 flowers and was particularly enriched in pollen and seed (Figures [F4]). GSNOR is expressed in various organs and developmental stages in Arabidopsis. Localization of GSNOR was observed in plants transformed with GSNOR::GSNOR-GFP in the hot5-2 background. All plants were homozygous for the GSNOR::GSNOR-GFP transgene, with the exception of those used for images in (I–K). (A) Whole seedling. (B) Cotyledon. (C) Flower, stage 13. (D) GSNOR-GFP distribution and localization in root tip cells in optical cross section through the middle of the root. (E) GSNOR-GFP localization in root epidermal cells. (F, G) Optical cross section of GSNOR-GFP localization in root cortex cells at two different magnifications. Arrowheads: nucleolus. PI, Propidium Iodide staining; DIC, Differential Interference Contrast microscopy. (H) GSNOR-GFP localization in the root elongation zone. Bar: 20 μm (D–H). (I–P) Localization of GSNOR-GFP in stage 14 flowers (I) stamens and petals (J) pollen (K) anther filaments (L) ovary (M) petals (N) seed at bending cotyledon embryonic stage (O) and stigma (P). Arrowheads in (K) denote hot5-2 pollen that do not express GSNOR-GFP due to segregation of the transgene in the heterozygote. Bar: 500 μm (I,J) 200 μm (M), or 40 μm (K,L, N–P). To assess global changes in the transcriptome due to GSNOR absence, we performed microarray analysis on 4-week leaves of hot5-2 plants grown on a 12 h light cycle since the leaves of Col and hot5-2 plants are most morphologically comparable at this age (Lee et al., [B35]). Imposing stringent criteria of ≥2-fold changes with p ≤ 0.01 (FDR-corrected), we found 99 and 170 transcripts up- and downregulated, respectively, in hot5-2 compared to Col-0. A complete list of transcripts is provided in Supp. Table [SM3] categorized by pathway as curated in MAPMAN (Usadel et al., [B61]). This list was used to test for enriched categories of regulated genes (Usadel et al., [B60]). One group of enriched genes was the “Stress Response” category (Table [T1]). Of 19 genes in this category, 13 were downregulated “biotic stress” genes, including pathogenesis-related protein 1 (PR1, ~6.9-fold), consistent with data from Feechan et al. ([B18]), four potential pathogen receptors (At1g59218, At3g04210, At3g50470, At3g11010), PR5, and other predicted herbivore and pathogen defense proteins. Of two upregulated “Stress” category genes, the defensin protein PDF1.2 was also reported to be upregulated in GSNOR antisense plants (Espunya et al., [B16]). Changes in “Stress Responsive” Transcripts in hot5-2 vs. wild-type. p ≤ 10−8 listed as = 0. These results are consistent with the involvement of NO in pathogen responses, and prompted us to employ the Arabidopsis eFP browser (Toufighi et al., [B59]) and TAIR gene annotations to determine if other pathogen response-linked genes, including those in the “Not Assigned” category (the largest category with 76 genes) were also differentially regulated in hot5-2. The eFP data include response to the oomycete Phytophthora infestans, the bacterium Pseudomonas syringae (virulent and avirulent), the fungi Botrytis cinerea and Erysiphe orontii, as well as induction by non-host bacteria and several elicitors. As highlighted in Supp. Table [SM3], 43 additional genes that can be linked to pathogen response are down-regulated (e.g., ACD6, At4g14400; DIR1, At5g48485), making a total of 56 of 170 downregulated genes linked to pathogen response. In contrast, only 13 additional upregulated genes can be linked to pathogen response. Since ~12% of Arabidopsis genes are pathogen defense-related (The Arabidopsis Initiative, [B1]), we conclude the absence of GSNOR disproportionately downregulates pathogen response genes. Given the significant interplay between GSNO levels and GSH-controlled redox homeostasis (Staab et al., [B53]), it was of interest that genes in the “Redox” category were also enriched. Intriguingly, six cytosolic ROXY-class glutaredoxins (GRXs) and an atypical chloroplast-localized thioredoxin (TRX) were upregulated in hot5-2 (Table [T2] and Supp. Table [SM3]). GRXs and TRXs are small oxidoreductases that regulate the thiol redox state of other proteins (Meyer et al., [B39]). Four of the six up-regulated GRX genes are closely linked on chromosome 4 and share 91–95% identity, while two others on chromosomes 5 and 1 are 72–75% and 58–60% identical to the chromosome 4 genes, respectively, and 59% identical to each other. All six GRXs belong to a plant-specific GRX family containing a monocysteine active site. Thus, these GRX proteins likely act as monothiol GRXs (Herrero and De La Torre-Ruiz, [B27]). One cytosolic, monothiol ROXY GRX (ROXY20), which is divergent from the upregulated genes (~40% identical), is downregulated in hot5-2. Examination of publically available expression patterns of these regulated ROXY genes (Schmid et al., [B49]) indicates that during normal plant growth the hot5-2 upregulated ROXY genes have low transcript levels in stems, senescing leaves, and the shoot apex, while ROXY20 shows the opposite pattern. Thus, these GRX proteins are likely to serve different functions. Currently the redox targets of these cytosolic GRXs and the unusual chloroplast TRX are unknown, but increased expression of the corresponding genes indicates that mutation of GSNOR alters redox homeostasis and potentially the targets of these oxidoreductases. Changes in “Redox” Transcripts in hot5-2 vs. wild-type. p ≤ 10−8 listed as = 0. Another enriched category of genes that presents a consistent picture of changes in the GSNOR mutant is the “Signaling” category, in which 14 of 15 genes are down regulated and half of the downregulated genes are involved in calcium signaling, including multiple calmodulins, calmodulin-like proteins and calreticulins (Supp. Table [SM3]). The single upregulated gene in this category is ATCP1 (CALCIUM BINDING PROTEIN 1, At5g49480), which also has sequence similarity to calmodulin. These data provide a direct link of GSNO to calcium signaling. Although “Transcription” was not a specifically enriched category, consideration of regulated transcription factors (Supp. Table [SM2]) shows that three of the most highly upregulated genes encode BHLH proteins involved in iron deficiency responses (BHLH100, At2g41240; BHLH039, At3g5698; BHLH038, At3g56980) (Wang et al., [B63]). The potential targets of these transcription factors in leaves are unknown, although in roots they can activate genes required for iron uptake. Among downregulated genes in the transcription category, it is notable that there are three AP2/EREBP transcription factors, which are involved in ethylene responses, including the most strongly downregulated gene in this category, TINY (At5g11590; >5-fold decreased) (Sun et al., [B54]).
!~MM~! Predicted genes encoding GSNOR from green plants were retrieved from NCBI Genbank and Phytozome v9.1 (Goodstein et al., [B23]) using Arabidopsis GSNOR (At5g43940, ADH2) as the tblastn query. GSNOR copy number was assessed with Phytozome and NCBI tblastn algorithms by querying predicted GSNOR- encoding genes against genomic reads from a particular plant species. Similar hits were considered duplicates if 5′ and 3′ intragenic and intron nucleotide sequences were >99% identical. Predicted GSNORs were also aligned via ClustalW (Larkin et al., [B34]) with the Arabidopsis protein most similar to GSNOR (alcohol dehydrogenase, AtADH1, At1g77120), and sequences that cladded with AtADH1 were culled. Bacterial, metazoan, and fungal orthologs discussed in the text were uncovered through an NCBI tblastn search with E. coli, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and human GSNOR queries, respectively. ClustalW sequence alignments were made with Jalview (Waterhouse et al., [B66]). Deduced protein sequences were included in Figure [F1] if transcript evidence (i.e., RNAseq and/or ESTs spanning the coding sequence) was available through Phytozome. Phylogenetic trees were drawn from aligned sequences in EvolView (Zhang et al., [B71]). N-terminal targeting peptide searches were performed with Predotar (Small et al., [B51]) and MITOPROT (Claros, [B10]). Mitochondrial targeting peptides encoded by GSNOR 5′ intragenic regions were identified by six-frame translation of the first 500 base pairs upstream of the start codon using the intron splice rules for Arabidopsis (Hebsgaard et al., [B26]). Conserved features of plant GSNOR proteins. Dark blue, light blue, and uncolored residues, respectively, refer to 100%, ≥75%, and <75% sequence conservation. Black and red dotted horizontal lines demarcate the catalytic and NADH-binding domains, respectively, as reported in crystal structures of tomato GSNOR (PDB code 4DL9). Residues coordinating structural and catalytic zinc atoms are outlined by solid black and red boxes, respectively. Red asterisks denote substrate-binding amino acids according to Kubienová et al. ([B32]). Dotted black boxes highlight flexible regions enclosing the active site. Red arrowheads (▼) indicate positions of the hot5-1 and hot5-3 missense mutations (Lee et al., [B35]). Open (∇) and closed (▼) black arrowheads designate ex-zinc cysteines found in most and all plant sequences, respectively. Z. mays: maize. S. lycopersicum: tomato. O. sativa: rice. P. vulgaris: bean. P. patens: Physcomitrella. M. truncatula: Medicago. C. reinhardtii: Chlamydomonas. S. moellendorffii: Selaginella. G. max: soybean. G. raimondii: cotton. P. trichocarpa: poplar. P. persica: peach. O. lucimarinus: Ostreococcus. S. tuberosum: potato. S. cerevisiae: budding yeast. H. sapiens: human. Black asterisks: species with genomes predicted to encode additional paralogs, but only transcript-supported sequences are shown. Accession numbers can be found in Supp. Table [SM2] and an alignment of additional plant sequences not currently supported by transcript data is presented in Supp. Figure [SM1]. Crystal structures of GSNOR from tomato (4DL9), human (1MP0), and Arabidopsis (4JJI and 4GL4) were obtained from the Protein Data Bank. Graphics were made with PyMOL v 1.6 (PyMOL). The Arabidopsis GSNOR null mutants, hot5-2 (also known as atgsnor1-3) (Col-0 background) and hot5-4 (WS background), have been described previously (Lee et al., [B35]). Unless otherwise indicated, plants were grown in soil in growth chambers on 16 h days (150 μMol m−2 s−1 light intensity) and a 21/19°C day/night temperature cycle. For analysis of the number of branches produced by wild-type and mutant plants, plants were grown as above and their height and branch pattern and numbers were measured 8 weeks after germination. Green fluorescent protein (GFP) was fused in frame 3′ to the Arabidopsis GSNOR genomic DNA (including 754 bp and 180 bp of 5′ and 3′ UTR, respectively) as follows. Genomic DNA was cloned into pENTR/D TOPO (Life Technologies). GFP was obtained from pMDC83 (Curtis and Grossniklaus, [B14]). HindIII and XbaI sites were added to GFP and GSNOR-encoding sequences with primers GGATGCAAGCTTAGTAAAGGAGAAGAAC and TCTCTAGATTATTTGTATAGTTCATCCATGC (GFP) and primers CGTTGTG TCCTCGATACCAGCAAGCTTGTCTCTAGATGACTATATGGGTCCTCTCTGC and GCAGAGAGGACCCATATAGTCATCTAGAGACAAGCTTGCTGGTATCGAGGAC ACAACG (GSNOR). PCR products were digested with HindIII and XbaI, purified, and ligated. The GSNOR-GFP clone was then subjected to PCR with primers GGTACCGAA TTCCTAGAGTACAACCTC and TCGAGTGCGGCCGCTAAACT ATATGATTAG to add EcoRI and NotI sites, respectively. The PCR product was then ligated into EcoRI/NotI-digested pENTR2B. Constructs were cloned into the binary vector pBIB Basta-GWR (Gou et al., [B24]) with LR Clonase II (Invitrogen), after which the sequence was verified. The GSNOR-GFP translational fusion was then transformed into hot5-2 plants, and homozygous transformants were identified by Basta screening and western blots. Three independent transgenic lines were analyzed. Whole seedlings and roots were imaged 7 days after germination on minimal nutrient medium with 0.5% sucrose. Whole flowers and reproductive structures were analyzed using stage 13 or 14 flowers as indicated in the figure legend. Images were obtained using an Olympus Fluoview FV1000 confocal microscope, with the exception of the whole seed and isolated stamens, which were imaged using conventional fluorescence microscopy with a NIKON Eclipse E800 microscope equipped with a SPOT camera (Molecular Diagnostic). Wild-type (Col) and hot5-2 Arabidopsis plants were grown on soil in a growth chamber on a 12 h light, 21°C/12 h dark, 19°C cycle for 25 days after germination. Four biological replicates of wild-type and hot5-2 leaves were sampled for RNA extraction 1 h before the end of the light period. A two-color, dye swap hybridization was performed on a long-oligonucleotide array chip by the Galbraith lab (University of Arizona) according to published methods (Zanetti et al., [B69]; Zhang et al., [B70]). Data were analyzed with Robin Version 0.9.6 BETA (Lohse et al., [B37]). Differentially-expressed genes were identified by two criteria: (1) change in expression greater than 2-fold, and (2) a t-test p-value <0.01. Normalization of expression data, analysis using a linear model, and Benjamini and Hochberg false discovery rate correction for multiple comparisons were performed using LIMMA (Smyth and Speed, [B52]).
