!~ABS~! Maintenance of sphingolipid homeostasis is critical for cell growth and programmed cell death (PCD). Serine palmitoyltransferase (SPT), composed of LCB1 and LCB2 subunits, catalyzes the primary regulatory point for sphingolipid synthesis. Small subunits of SPT (ssSPT) that strongly stimulate SPT activity have been identified in mammals, but the role of ssSPT in eukaryotic cells is unclear. Candidate Arabidopsis thaliana ssSPTs, ssSPTa and ssSPTb, were identified and characterized. Expression of these 56–amino acid polypeptides in a Saccharomyces cerevisiae SPT null mutant stimulated SPT activity from the Arabidopsis LCB1/LCB2 heterodimer by >100-fold through physical interaction with LCB1/LCB2. ssSPTa transcripts were more enriched in all organs and >400-fold more abundant in pollen than ssSPTb transcripts. Accordingly, homozygous ssSPTa T-DNA mutants were not recoverable, and 50% nonviable pollen was detected in heterozygous ssspta mutants. Pollen viability was recovered by expression of wild-type ssSPTa or ssSPTb under control of the ssSPTa promoter, indicating ssSPTa and ssSPTb functional redundancy. SPT activity and sensitivity to the PCD-inducing mycotoxin fumonisin B1 (FB1) were increased by ssSPTa overexpression. Conversely, SPT activity and FB1 sensitivity were reduced in ssSPTa RNA interference lines. These results demonstrate that ssSPTs are essential for male gametophytes, are important for FB1 sensitivity, and limit sphingolipid synthesis in planta.
!~RES~! Two genes, designated ssSPTa (At1g06515) and ssSPTb(At2g30942), encoding 56–amino acid polypeptides were identified in homology searches using the human ssSPTs as query. The amino acid sequences of the Arabidopsis polypeptides share 88% identity and have predicted homologs throughout the plant kingdom (Figure 1; see Supplemental Figure 2 online). Arabidopsis ssSPTa and ssSPTb also share 25 to 30% amino acid sequence identity with human ssSPTa and 18 to 25% identity with human ssSPTb but <10% identity with the S. cerevisiae Tsc3p. Arabidopsis ssSPTa and ssSPTb have one likely transmembrane domain encompassing 19 to 23 amino acids in the central portion of the polypeptides, based on predictions from the SOSUI (CITATION), TopPred (CITATION), and TMpred programs (CITATION) (Figure 1). This is also consistent with mammalian ssSPTs, which have been shown to contain a single transmembrane domain (CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To establish their functions, Arabidopsis human influenza hemagglutinin (HA)-tagged ssSPTa and ssSPTb were expressed along with the Arabidopsis core SPT subunits LCB1 with a FLAG tag and LCB2a or LCB2b with Myc tags in a yeast mutant lacking endogenous SPT. Expression of LCB1-FLAG with the Myc-LCB2 subunits failed to complement the long-chain-base auxotrophy of the yeast mutant, but coexpression of either HA-ssSPTa or HA-ssSPTb resulted in robust growth, even at 37°C where the requirement for SPT activity is relatively high (Figure 2A). Immunoprecipitation of the LCB1-FLAG subunit resulted in copurification of the HA-ssSPTs as well as the Myc-LCB2 subunits (Figure 2B, left panel). This reflects specific binding of HA-ssSPTa with the LCB1/LCB2 heterodimer because no HA-ssSPTa bound to the beads when solubilized microsomes prepared from cells expressing untagged LCB1, Myc-LCB2, and HA-ssSPTa were used for the immunoprecipitation (Figure 2B, right panel). The ssSPTs behave like integral membrane proteins when coexpressed with LCB1 and LCB2, as the proteins are solubilized with detergents and urea, but not by salt or bicarbonate (Figure 2C). By analogy to the human ssSPTs (CITATION), we predicted that the Arabidopsis ssSPTs would have a single transmembrane domain and that their C termini would reside in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) lumen. To directly address the location of the C terminus of ssSPTb, a glycosylation cassette containing three consensus AsnX(Ser/Thr) glycosylation sites was appended to the C terminus of HA-ssSPTb, and tagged protein was assessed for glycosylation based on sensitivity to Endoglycosidase H (Endo H) treatment. The increased electrophoretic mobility of HA-ssSPTb following Endo H treatment (Figure 2D) provides strong evidence that the C terminus is in the ER lumen. Consistent with the complementation data, microsomes prepared from yeast expressing the At LCB1/LCB2 heterodimers had very low SPT activity (Figure 2E), whereas coexpression of either At ssSPTa or At ssSPTb increased the microsomal SPT activities >100-fold. With all four combinations of LCB2, ssSPT, and LCB1 subunits, a high preference for palmitoyl (16:0)-CoA was observed. Activities measured with myristoyl (14:0)- or stearoyl (18:0)-CoA were <10% of the activity with palmitoyl-CoA (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). The higher SPT activities measured with ssSPTa are likely due to higher expression levels achieved with ssSPTa versus ssSPTb (Figure 2E), as indicated by protein gel blot analysis of microsomes from the recombinant yeast (see Supplemental Figure 3 online), rather than to an intrinsic functional difference between these polypeptides. [[FIGURE]] Confocal microscopy studies were conducted on transiently expressed ssSPTa and ssSPTb with N-terminal yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) tags in Nicotiana benthamiana to establish the intracellular localization of these polypeptides. Both polypeptides were found to colocalize with the ER marker mCherry-HDEL (Figures 3A to 3F). This is consistent with ER localization of LCB1, LCB2a, and LCB2b, as previously reported (CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To assess the in planta contributions of each gene to SPT activation, transcript levels of ssSPTa and ssSPTb were measured in different organs of Arabidopsis (Figure 3G). It is notable that neither gene is represented in any of the public microarray databases. Our analyses revealed that ssSPTa is more highly expressed than ssSPTb in all organs examined (Figure 3G). Of most significance, ssSPTa transcript levels were nearly 500-fold more abundant in pollen than those for ssSPTb. ssSPTa transcripts were also 60- and 35-fold more abundant in flowers and leaves, respectively, than ssSPTb transcripts (Figure 3G). To further examine the relative in planta contributions of ssSPTa and ssSPTb, T-DNA insertion mutants for each gene were characterized. ssSPTa is on chromosome 1 and has two introns within the coding sequence, whereas ssSPTb is on chromosome 2 and has two introns within the coding sequence (Figure 4A). T-DNA insertion mutants were identified for each gene: SALK_104888 for ssSPTa (designated ssspta-1) and SALK_028181 and GAB_169D12 for ssSPTb (designated sssptb-1 and sssptb-2, respectively). In the case of sssptb-1 and sssptb-2, lines homozygous for the T-DNA insertion and lacking detectable ssSPTb transcript were identified (see Supplemental Figure 4 online). Homozygous sssptb-1 and sssptb-2 plants were indistinguishable in their growth and pollen viability from wild-type plants (see Supplemental Figure 5 online). By contrast, no homozygous ssspta-1 mutants were identified by genotyping 250 plants over three generations, suggesting that ssSPTa is an essential gene (see Supplemental Figure 6 online). Examination of pollen with viability stain revealed 50% nonviable pollen in ssspta-1 plants genotyped as heterozygous for the T-DNA insertion (Figure 4B). χ2 goodness-of-fit tests confirmed that the defect observed in pollen collected from ssspta-1 heterozygous plants segregated at the expected 1:1 ratio for a male gametophytic lethal mutation within a 90 to 95% confidence interval (χ2 = 2.627; n = 521). However, the relative numbers of aborted ovules in these plants were low and not significantly different from those in wild-type plants (see Supplemental Figure 7 online). Levels of pollen viability were restored to wild-type levels by introduction of a wild-type copy of ssSPTa (including its native promoter) into ssspta-1 plants genotyped as homozygous for the ssspta-1 allele (Figure 4B; see Supplemental Figure 8 online). Overall, these results demonstrate that ssSPTa, but not ssSPTb, is essential for pollen viability. The much higher expression of ssSPTa relative to ssSPTb in pollen (Figure 4B) likely accounts for the inability of ssSPTb to compensate for loss of ssSPTa to maintain normal male gametophytic development. To test this hypothesis, the ssSPTb cDNA was placed under control of the ssSPTa promoter and introduced into the heterozygous ssspta-1 mutant. Based on genotyping data, plants were recovered that expressed this transgene and contained the homozygous ssspta-1 allele and lacked defective pollen (Figure 4B; see Supplemental Figure 9 online). These findings indicate that the ssSPTa and ssSPTb polypeptides are functionally redundant. We also tested whether ssSPTa is essential for sporophytic (vegetative) growth by expression of an ssSPTa cDNA under control of the pollen- and ovule (meiotic cell)–specific DMC1 promoter (CITATION) in the ssspta-1 mutant to advance the ssspta-1 −/− allele beyond pollen development. No transgenic plants genotyped as ssspta-1 −/− and lacking the ssSPTa transcript in leaves were recovered. Instead, four independent ssspta-1 −/− lines were obtained that were severely dwarfed and had low levels of ssSPTa expression in leaves, presumably due to leaky expression from the DMC1 promoter (Figure 5). These plants had pollen with high levels of viability, and the dwarf phenotype persisted into the subsequent generation (Figure 5). This result suggests that ssSPTa is also essential for sporophytic growth. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] ssSPTa overexpression and suppression lines were generated in wild-type Arabidopsis to determine the impact on SPT activity in planta. Overexpression lines were prepared by placing the ssSPTa cDNA under control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S (CaMV35S) promoter, and RNA interference (RNAi) lines were generated using hairpin-generating constructs that targeted the ssSPTa gene under control of the CaMV35S promoter. Homozygous lines from the introduction of these transgenes in wild-type Arabidopsis were screened by quantitative PCR (qPCR) to identify those with strongly enhanced or suppressed expression of ssSPTa (see Supplemental Figure 10 online). Enzyme assays conducted with microsomes prepared from rosettes revealed an approximately twofold increase in SPT activity in a selected overexpression line and up to a twofold decrease in SPT activity in two independent suppression lines (Figures 6A and 6B). These results indicated that SPT activity in planta can be modulated by altered expression of ssSPTa, and based on the findings from the overexpression line, levels of ssSPTa expression are limiting for maximal SPT activity in planta. [[FIGURE]] Based on results from LCB1 and LCB2 Arabidopsis mutants (CITATION; CITATION), altered SPT activity should affect resistance to the ceramide synthase mycotoxin inhibitor FB1 (CITATION). Enhanced SPT activity is hypothesized to increase FB1 sensitivity by heightened production of cytotoxic LCBs, whereas reduced SPT activity is hypothesized to decrease FB1 sensitivity by lessened production of LCBs (CITATION; CITATION). Consistent with these hypotheses, ssSPTa suppression lines were observed to have increased resistance to FB1: Suppression lines maintained viability at 0.5 µM FB1, which was toxic to wild-type plants (Figure 6C). Conversely, ssSPTa overexpression lines displayed strong sensitivity to 0.3 µM FB1, but wild-type plants retained viability at this FB1 concentration (Figure 6C). Consistent with this, free LCB and LCB-phosphate accumulation in the ssSPTa RNAi line was strongly reduced relative to that in wild-type plants in response to FB1, whereas free LCB and LCB-phosphate accumulation was approximately threefold higher in the ssSPTa overexpression line relative to that in wild-type plants in response to FB1 (Figure 6D). These results indicate that altered ssSPTa expression is an effective means of modulating sensitivity of plants to FB1 and likely other sphinganine analog mycotoxins by increasing or decreasing SPT activity. Human ssSPTa and ssSPTb confer distinct substrate specificities to human SPT: ssSPTa expression with human LCB1/LCB2 results in substrate preference for palmitoyl-CoA to generate C18 LCBs, whereas ssSPTb expression with LCB1/LCB2 results in preference for stearoyl-CoA to generate C20 LCBs (CITATION; CITATION). The basis for this is due to a single amino acid difference in human ssSPTa (Met-25) and ssSPTb (Val-25) (CITATION). Like human ssSPTa, At ssSPTa and At ssSPTb have Met at the equivalent position (Met-19), and expression of either At ssSPTa or At ssSPTb with At LCB1/At LCB2a or At LCB2b yields activity primarily with palmitoyl-CoA (Figures 1 and 2C). To test the importance of amino acid 19 of At ssSPTs for SPT substrate specificity, Met-19 in At ssSPTb was mutated to Val and expressed in a yeast SPT-null mutant along with At LCB1/At LCB2a and in wild-type Arabidopsis (Columbia-0 [Col-0]). Consistent with findings with human SPT (CITATION; CITATION), yeast coexpressing wild-type Arabidopsis ssSPTb and At LCB/At LCB2a accumulated exclusively C18-LCBs (produced from condensation of Ser with palmitoyl-CoA), while those expressing the Arabidopsis ssSPTb M19V mutant accumulated high levels of C20-LCBs, reflecting condensation of Ser with stearoyl-CoA (Figure 7A). Similarly, expression of At ssSPTb M19V in Arabidopsis resulted in the aberrant production of C20-LCBs that accumulated in all sphingolipid classes (Figure 7B; see Supplemental Figure 11 online). These findings indicate that a single conserved amino acid in human and Arabidopsis ssSPTs is critical for SPT substrate specificity even though these polypeptides share ≤30% amino acid sequence identity. In addition, Arabidopsis lines expressing the ssSPTb M19V mutant displayed enhanced sensitivity to FB1 and enhanced overall accumulation of free and phosphorylated LCBs in response to FB1 relative to wild-type plants (see Supplemental Figure 12 online). This effect is similar to that described above for ssSPTa overexpression. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) strain TDY9113 (Mat α tsc3Δ:NAT lcb1Δ:KAN ura3 leu2 lys2 trp1Δ) lacking endogenous SPT was used for expression and characterization of the Arabidopsis thaliana ssSPT subunits. The mutant was cultured in medium containing 15 μM phytosphingosine and 0.2% tergitol. The At ssSPTa and At ssSPTb cDNA open reading frames were inserted after the 3× HA tag in pADH1 (CITATION). pAL2-TRP was constructed for divergent constitutive expression of At LCB1-FLAG and Myc-At LCB2a or Myc-At LCB2b by replacing the Gal1 and Gal10 promoters of pESC-TRP (Stratagene) with the yeast LCB2 and ADH promoters, respectively. The At ssSPTb M19V mutation was introduced by QuikChange mutagenesis (Stratagene). Yeast microsomes were prepared and SPT was assayed as described (CITATION) except that 75 μM myristoyl-, palmitoyl-, or stearoyl-CoA was used for the yeast microsomal SPT assays and 50 μM palmitoyl-CoA was used for the Arabidopsis microsomal SPT assays. SPT activity was measured using [3H]Ser and palmitoyl-CoA. Immunoprecipitation was conducted as described (CITATION) with minor modifications. Microsomal membrane proteins were prepared from yeast cells expressing FLAG-tagged At LCB1 and Myc-tagged At LCB2a with HA-tagged At ssSPTa. Untagged At LCB1 was used to verify that At ssSPTa itself does not bind to the anti-Flag resin. Microsomal membrane proteins were resuspended at 1 mg/mL in immunoprecipitation (IP) buffer (50 mM HEPES-KOH, pH 6.8, 150 mM KOAc, 2 mM MgOAc, 1 mM CaCl2, and 15% glycerol) supplemented with 1 mM PMSF, 2 mg/mL Pepstatin A, 1 mg/mL leupeptin, and 1 mg/mL protinin and solubilized using 1% digitonin at 4°C for 2.5 h. One milliliter of solubilized microsomes was incubated with 25 μL of anti-FLAG beads (Sigma-Aldrich) at 4°C for 4 h, and the beads were washed four times with IP buffer containing 0.1% digitonin. The bound proteins were eluted in IP buffer containing 0.25% digitonin and 200 µg/mL of FLAG peptide, resolved on a 4 to 12% Bis-Tris NuPAGE gel (Invitrogen), and detected by immunoblotting with antibodies, anti-HA (Covance; 1:5000 dilution), anti-Myc (Sigma-Aldrich; 1:3000 dilution), and anti-FLAG (GenScript; 1:5000 dilution). The assays were conducted as described (CITATION) with minor modifications. Microsomes prepared from yeast cells expressing HA-tagged At ssSPTa/b, At Lcb1, and At Lcb2a were incubated on ice in buffer containing 1 M NaCl, 0.2 M Na2CO3, 5 M urea, 0.4% Nonidet P-40, or 2% Triton X-100 for 60 min. The samples were subjected to centrifugation at 100,000g for 30 min, and equal proportions of the supernatants and pellets were resolved by SDS-PAGE. For topology mapping, a glycosylation cassette (GC) containing three consensus AsnX(Ser/Thr) glycosylation sites was appended to the C terminus of At ssSPTb. HA-At ssSPTb and HA-At ssSPTb-GC (along with At LCB1 and At LCB2) were expressed in yeast, and glycosylation was assessed using Endo H as previously described (CITATION). Wild-type and mutant Arabidopsis (Col-0) were grown on soil or surface sterilized and sown on Linsmaier and Skoog (LS) agar plates. After stratification at 4°C for 4 d, plants were maintained at 22°C and 50% humidity with a 16-h-light (100 µmol/m−2/s−1)/8-h-dark cycle. Binary vectors were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 by electroporation. Transgenic plants were created by floral dip of Arabidopsis (Col-0) or heterozygous SALK_104888 T-DNA mutant plants (CITATION). Seeds were screened with a green LED light and a Red 2 camera filter to identify positive (DsRed) transformed seeds. For analyses of organ-specific expression of ssSPTa and ssSPTb, 6- to 8-week-old Col-0 plants were used as sources of plant material. Pollen was harvested as described previously (CITATION). RNA extraction was performed using the RNeasy Plant Kit (Qiagen) according to the manufacturer’s protocol. RNA (1 µg) was treated with DNaseI (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer’s protocol. Treated RNA was then reverse transcribed to cDNA with the iScript cDNA synthesis kit (Bio-Rad) according to the manufacturer’s protocol. qPCR was performed on the resulting cDNA using the Bio-Rad MyiQ iCycler qPCR instrument. Values shown are the average of three independent measurements ± sd. SYBR green was used as the fluorophore in a qPCR supermix (Qiagen). QuantiTect (Qiagen) primer sets (primers P1, P2, and P3; see Supplemental Table 1 online) were used for relative quantification. PP2AA3 (At1g13320) was used as an internal reference gene. YFP fusion proteins with ssSPTa and ssSPTb were prepared by amplification of the ssSPTa and ssSPTb open reading frames using gene-specific primers (primers P4 through P7; see Supplemental Table 1 online). PCR products were first cloned into the pENTR/D-TOPO vector (Invitrogen). The resulting plasmids were combined with the destination vector pEarlyGate 104 (CITATION) to generate the YFP N-terminal fusion constructs. Agrobacterium-mediated infiltration of Nicotiana benthamiana leaves (CITATION) was performed with ssSPTa-YFP and ssSPTb-YFP separately and in conjunction with the ER marker CD3-959 (HDEL-mCherry) (CITATION). Sequential imaging was performed using a Nikon A1 confocal imaging system mounted on a Nikon Eclipse 90i microscope. Excitation/emission wavelengths for YFP and mCherry were 488 nm/500 to 550 nm and 561.6 nm/570 to 620 nm, respectively. T-DNA insertion mutants were obtained from the ABRC and the GABI-Kat collections. Genomic DNA was extracted from plants using the REDextract-N-Amp Tissue PCR kit (Sigma-Aldrich). Genotyping was performed by PCR using gene-specific and T-DNA–specific primer sets (primers P8 through P15; see Supplemental Table 1 online). For genomic complementation of SALK_104888 (ssspta-1) heterozygous T-DNA mutant plants, an ∼2.0-kb fragment of ssSPTa was amplified from Arabidopsis (Col-0) genomic DNA (primers P16 and P17; see Supplemental Table 1 online). The amplified product was then digested with AscI and cloned into the binary vector pB110. Heterozygous T-DNA mutants (SALK_104888) were then transformed with the pB110 construct by the floral dip method (CITATION). Primary transformants were selected (DsRed) and genotyped. Selected heterozygous plants were also genotyped in the next generation (primers P18 and P19; see Supplemental Table 1 online). The ADS1 gene was used as a genotyping control (primers P20 and P21; see Supplemental Table 1 online). Pollen was analyzed from the primary and homozygous transformants. The ssSPTa promoter:ssSPTb cDNA fusion construct was generated by amplification of ∼1.0-kb region upstream of the ssSPTa start codon (primers P22 and P23; see Supplemental Table 1 online). The product was digested with BamHI and EcoRI and cloned into the corresponding sites of pBinGlyRed2. The ssSPTb cDNA fragment was amplified from Col-0 cDNA, digested with EcoRI and XhoI, and cloned into pBinGlyRed2 (primers P24 and P25; see Supplemental Table 1 online). Transformants were selected and genotyped, and pollen was assessed for viability. The gametophyte-specific DMC1 promoter (CITATION) was amplified from pPTN850 (provided by Tom Clemente, University of Nebraska–Lincoln) and cloned into the pBinGlyRed3-35S:ssSPTa cDNA construct using the BamHI and EcoRI sites, replacing the CaMV35S promoter with DMC1 promoter (primers P26 and P27; see Supplemental Table 1 online). Pollen imaging was performed using an Olympus AX70 optical microscope. Anthers and siliques of mature plants were isolated using a Nikon SMZ745T dissection microscope. Anthers were smeared on a glass slide and incubated with Alexander stain (CITATION) at 4°C for 45 min before viewing. Pollen viability was assessed by shape and color. ssSPTa-overexpressing plants were generated by transforming Col-0 with the CaMV35S promoter:ssSPTa cDNA constructs. ssSPTa was cloned into the binary vector pBinGlyRed3-35S using the EcoRI-XbaI restriction sites (primers P28 and P29; see Supplemental Table 1 online). ssSPTa RNAi lines were generated by overexpressing a hairpin with the ssSPTa 3′ untranslated region (UTR). The ssSPTa 3′ UTR fragments were amplified (primers P30 and P31; see Supplemental Table 1) and cloned into the pENTR/D-TOPO vector (Invitrogen). The resulting vector was digested with ApaLI. This vector was then combined with the destination vector pFGCGW-red to generate the final ssSPTa RNAi construct. Arabidopsis (Col-0) plants were transformed with these constructs, and the resulting transformants were selected and screened by qPCR for ssSPTa transcript. Sensitivity screening relative to a wild-type control was done at 0, 0.3, and 0.5 µM FB1 (Sigma-Aldrich) concentrations in LS media. Sensitivity was determined by plant growth rate and germination at the varying FB1 concentrations. Microsomal membrane isolation from soil grown 3-week-old Arabidopsis rosettes was performed as described previously (CITATION), and protein concentration was measured using the bicinchoninic acid assay method (CITATION). The At ssSPTb M19V mutant cDNA was amplified from the corresponding yeast vector described above (primers P32 and P33; see Supplemental Table 1 online) and cloned into the pENTR/D-TOPO vector (Invitrogen). The resulting vector was linearized with ApaLI and combined with the destination vector pCD3-724-Red, resulting in the final vector pCD3-724-Red-ssSPTb M19V. The vector was transformed into Arabidopsis Col-0 as described above. Sphingolipids were extracted from 2 to 15 mg of lyophilized seedling tissue as described (CITATION). Sphingolipid profiling by liquid chromatography/electrospray ionization–tandem mass spectrometry was performed as described (CITATION) with modifications, using a Shimadzu Prominence ultra-performance liquid chromatography system and a 4000 QTRAP mass spectrometer (AB SCIEX). Sphingolipids were separated on a Zorbax Eclipse Plus narrow bore RRHT C18 column, 2.1 × 100 mm, 1.8-µm particle size (Agilent) column at 40°C and a flow rate of 0.2 mL/min. Binary gradients were generated as described (CITATION) using tetrahydrofuran/methanol/5 mM ammonium formate (3:2:5) + 0.1% formic acid (solvent A) and tetrahydrofuran/methanol/5 mM ammonium formate (7:2:1) + 0.1% formic acid (solvent B). Sphingolipid species were detected using a 4000 QTRAP mass spectrometer (AB SCIEX) with instrument settings as follows: ion spray voltage, 5000 V; source temperature, 350°C (for glycosyl inositolphosphoceramides) and 400°C; GS1, 30; GS2, 60; curtain gas, 13 p.s.i.; interface heater on at 100°C. Voltage potentials were adjusted slightly from values given by CITATION to account for differences in column dimensions, flow rate, and source temperature. Optimized voltage potentials were determined using Arabidopsis leaf sphingolipids as a calibrant. Multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) Q1/Q3 transitions for t18:0, t18:1, d18:0, and d18:1 sphingolipid species were as described by CITATION. t20:0 free LCBs were monitored using a 346.3/328.3 mass-to-charge ratio MRM. MRM Q1/Q3 transitions for t20:0-containing sphingolipids are shown in Supplemental Table 2 online. Instrument settings for t18:0 species were used for t20:0 species. Data analysis was performed using Analyst 1.5 and Multiquant 2.1 software (AB SCIEX) as described by CITATION. ssSPT amino acid sequence alignments were generated by ClustalW (CITATION) with Gonnet protein weight matrix (gap open penalty = 10, gap extension penalty = 0.1, and gap separation distance = 4). Sequence alignments are provided in Supplemental Figure 13 online. MEGA5 using the neighbor-joining method (CITATION) was used for phylogenetic analysis of the aligned full-length ssSPT sequences. The percentages of replicate trees in which the associated taxa clustered together in the bootstrap test (1000 replicates) are shown next to the branches. The tree is drawn to scale, with branch lengths in the same units as those of the evolutionary distances used to infer the phylogenetic tree. All positions containing gaps and missing data were eliminated. There were a total of 40 positions in the final data set. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL libraries under the following accession numbers: ssSPTa (At1g06515), ssSPTb (At2g30942), LCB1 (At4g36480), LCB2a (At5g23670), and LCB2b (At3g48780). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Long-Chain-Base Synthesis, Structures, and Phosphorylation/Dephosphorylation Reactions. Supplemental Figure 2. Phylogenetic Analysis of ssSPTs from Diverse Eukaryotes. Supplemental Figure 3. Comparison of Arabidopsis SPT Activity +/− ssSPTa or b with Myristoyl (14:0)-, Palmitoyl (16:0)-, and Stearoyl (18:0)-CoA with Corresponding Protein Levels Expressed in Yeast. Supplemental Figure 4. RT-PCR Showing Complete Loss of ssSPTb Transcript in sssptb-1 −/− and sssptb-2 −/−. Supplemental Figure 5. Pollen Isolated from sssptb-1 and ssspt-2 Homozygous Mutants Displayed High Levels of Viability. Supplemental Figure 6. PCR-Based Genotyping of ssspta-1 Plants Identified Only Heterozygous Mutants. Supplemental Figure 7. Siliques of Heterozygous ssspta-1 Mutants Show Normal Ovule Development. Supplemental Figure 8. Homozygous ssspta-1 Mutants Are Recoverable by Complementation with a Wild-Type Copy of ssSPTa. Supplemental Figure 9. RT-PCR Showing Complete Loss of ssSPTa Transcript in ssspta-1 −/− Complemented with an ssSPTb cDNA Linked to the ssSPTa Promoter. Supplemental Figure 10. ssSPTa Expression Levels in Overexpression and RNAi Lines. Supplemental Figure 11. Sphingolipidomic Analysis of Ceramides in Col-0 and the ssSPTb M19V Mutant Leaves. Supplemental Figure 12. ssSPTb M19V Overexpression Lines Have Increased LCB and LCB(P) Content When Grown on FB1 and Have Enhanced FB1 Sensitivity. Supplemental Figure 13. Amino Acid Sequence Alignment of Selected ssSPTs. Supplemental Table 1. Oligonucleotide Primers Used in These Studies. Supplemental Table 2. MRM Q1/Q3 Transitions for t20:0 Long-Chain-Base-Containing Sphingolipid Species Used to Monitor t20:0 Sphingolipids by LC/ESI-MS/MS.
