!~ABS~! The recognition of pathogen effector proteins by plants is typically mediated by intracellular receptors belonging to the nucleotide-binding leucine-rich repeat (NLR) family. NLR proteins often detect pathogen effector proteins indirectly by detecting modification of their targets. How NLR proteins detect such modifications is poorly understood. To address these questions, we have been investigating the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) NLR protein RESISTANCE TO PSEUDOMONAS SYRINGAE5 (RPS5), which detects the Pseudomonas syringae effector protein Avirulence protein Pseudomonas phaseolicolaB (AvrPphB). AvrPphB is a cysteine protease that specifically targets a subfamily of receptor-like cytoplasmic kinases, including the Arabidopsis protein kinase AVRPPHB Susceptible1 (PBS1). RPS5 is activated by the cleavage of PBS1 at the apex of its activation loop. Here, we show that RPS5 activation requires that PBS1 be localized to the plasma membrane and that plasma membrane localization of PBS1 is mediated by amino-terminal S-acylation. We also describe the development of a high-throughput screen for mutations in PBS1 that block RPS5 activation, which uncovered four new pbs1 alleles, two of which blocked cleavage by AvrPphB. Lastly, we show that RPS5 distinguishes among closely related kinases by the amino acid sequence (SEMPH) within an exposed loop in the C-terminal one-third of PBS1. The SEMPH loop is located on the opposite side of PBS1 from the AvrPphB cleavage site, suggesting that RPS5 associates with the SEMPH loop while leaving the AvrPphB cleavage site exposed. These findings provide support for a model of NLR activation in which NLR proteins form a preactivation complex with effector targets and then sense a conformational change in the target induced by effector modification.
!~RES~! PBS1 contains a predicted N-terminal S-acylation signal (MGCFSCFDS), with both Cys-3 and Cys-6 residues predicted to be palmitoylated by CSS-Palm 3.0 (http://csspalm.biocuckoo.org/; CITATION). Consistent with this prediction, a previous study showed that fusion of the first 100 amino acids of PBS1 to GFP causes GFP to localize to the PM (CITATION). However, this work did not address whether full-length PBS1 localizes to the PM, nor whether Cys-3 and/or Cys-6 are required for PM localization. In this study, we fused super yellow fluorescent protein (sYFP) to the C terminus of full-length PBS1. Laser scanning confocal microscopy imaging demonstrated that PBS1-sYFP localizes to the PM when expressed in N. benthamiana epidermal cells (Fig. 1A). Palmitoylation is usually associated with myristoylation at Gly-2 (CITATION), so we created G2A and G2AC3/6A mutations in the PBS1-sYFP fusion to investigate their respective contribution to PBS1 localization. The G2A mutation did not cause a significant change in PBS1 localization (Supplemental Fig. S1A). However, the G2AC3/6A mutation caused significant dissociation of PBS1 from the PM (Fig. 1A). On the other hand, the kinase activity of PBS1 appears not to be necessary for PBS1 PM localization, as the kinase-inactive PBS1, K115N, still showed a typical peripheral PM localization profile (Supplemental Fig. S1B). [[FIGURE]] To further map the PM localization signal, we fused the first 20 amino acids of PBS1 to sYFP (N20:sYFP). Transient expression of N20:sYFP in N. benthamiana revealed a PM localization profile (Fig. 1A). In addition to the PM signal, we observed highly mobile vesicle-like structures. Such structures are frequently observed when acylated proteins are overexpressed (CITATION; CITATION). A G2AC3/6A mutant form of N20-sYFP (n20:sYFP) accumulated in the cytoplasm instead of PM, indicating that one or more of these residues is required for PM localization (Fig. 1A). To determine whether the Cys-3 and Cys-6 residues of PBS1 are modified through thioester linkage to acyl groups, we assessed protein acylation using a “biotin switch” assay (CITATION; CITATION). This method uses hydroxylamine-induced cleavage of thioester bonds, which results in free sulfhydryl groups that can then be conjugated to a biotin derivative, Biotin-BMCC (see “Materials and Methods”). N20:sYFP transiently expressed in N. benthamiana was immunoprecipitated and suspended in N-ethylmaleimide to block any free, nonacylated Cys residues, treated with hydroxylamine to cleave thioester bonds, and incubated with Biotin-BMCC to label newly exposed sulfhydryl groups, followed by immunoblot analysis with streptavidin to detect any fatty acid modifications. The N20:sYFP fusion was successfully labeled with biotin, while n20:sYFP with the G2AC3/6A mutation was not (Fig. 1B), indicating that the Cys-3 and/or Cys-6 residues of PBS1 are acylated. To confirm that PBS1 can be acylated with palmitic acid, we performed in vivo labeling of full-length PBS1 in yeast with tritium-labeled palmitic acid. Wild-type PBS1 was labeled, while the G2AC3/6A mutant was not (Fig. 1C). We have previously shown that RPS5 can be activated by simultaneous expression of the two engineered PBS1 cleavage products, which recapitulates AvrPphB cleavage (CITATION). Knowledge of the subcellular localization of these two products would thus be helpful for understanding how RPS5 is activated. We generated C-terminal fusions for both the N-terminal PBS1 cleavage product (nPBS1:sYFP) and the C-terminal PBS1 cleavage product (cPBS1:sYFP). Confocal microscopy imaging revealed a PM localization profile for nPBS1:sYFP but a cytosolic and nuclear localization pattern for cPBS1:sYFP (Supplemental Fig. S1C). However, the presence of both PBS1 cleavage products is necessary for RPS5 activation (CITATION), and PM localization of RPS5 is essential for its activation (CITATION), suggesting that there must be a subpopulation of cPBS1 localized to the PM, perhaps via intra-PBS1 contacts. To test this hypothesis, we performed bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) on the two PBS1 cleavage products. For this purpose, we generated nPBS1:NYFP (for N-terminal half of sYFP) and cPBS1:CYFP (for C-terminal half of sYFP) constructs. Coexpression of these two constructs in N. benthamiana produced a strong BiFC signal on the PM (Fig. 1D). As a negative control, we coexpressed nPBS1-NYFP with 3× hemagglutinin (HA)-CYFP, which produced no BiFC signal. The interaction of nPBS1 and cPBS1 in this BiFC assay is consistent with our previous observation that the two engineered cleavage products interact with each other in coimmunoprecipitation assays (CITATION). Taken together, these data indicate that the two halves of PBS1 remain associated on the PM following cleavage by AvrPphB. To investigate the importance of PBS1 acylation in RPS5-mediated resistance, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing wild-type PBS1, the G2A mutant, and the G2AC3/6A mutant under the control of the native PBS1 promoter in a pbs1-1 mutant background. To facilitate subsequent analyses, all constructs were tagged with a C-terminal HA epitope. Similar to plants expressing wild-type PBS1, the G2A-PBS1 transformants showed a strong HR when infiltrated with P. syringae strain DC3000(avrPphB) at 16 h after inoculation (Fig. 2A). In contrast, both the G2AC3/6A mutant and the empty vector control failed to complement the pbs1-1 mutation, producing no visible HR (Fig. 2A), indicating that the C3/6A substitutions in PBS1 blocked the activation of RPS5. We confirmed that G2AC3/6A-PBS1 failed to activate RPS5 by measuring bacterial growth. Consistent with the HR data, the growth of DC3000(avrPphB) in G2AC3/6A-PBS1 transgenic plants was indistinguishable from that observed in pbs1-1 control plants transformed with the empty vector and approximately 500-fold higher than in plants transformed with wild-type PBS1 (Fig. 2B). Furthermore, the growth of DC3000(avrPphB) in G2AC3/6A-PBS1 plants was similar to that of DC3000 lacking avrPphB (Supplemental Fig. S2). Taken together, we conclude that the localization of PBS1 to the PM via Cys-3 and/or Cys-6 acylation is essential for the activation of RPS5 by DC3000(avrPphB). [[FIGURE]] AvrPphB has previously been shown to localize to the PM via N-terminal acylation (CITATION). One possible explanation for the failure of G2AC3/6A-PBS1 to complement the pbs1-1 mutation is that PBS1 must be associated with the PM to be cleaved by AvrPphB. To test this hypothesis, we injected DC3000(avrPphB) into transgenic plants expressing wild-type PBS1:HA or G2AC3/6A-PBS1:HA and assessed PBS1 cleavage using immunoblot analysis. At 6 h post injection, the C-terminal PBS1 cleavage product was detected in extract from wild-type PBS1:HA tissue (Fig. 3A). In contrast, no PBS1 cleavage was detected in the G2AC3/6A-PBS1:HA tissue injected with DC3000(avrPphB) or in wild-type PBS1:HA tissue injected with DC3000 lacking avrPphB (Fig. 3A). In addition, G2AC3/6A-PBS1 accumulated to a level similar to that of wild-type PBS1, indicating that the failure of G2AC3/6A-PBS1 to complement pbs1-1 (Fig. 2) was not due to poor protein accumulation. To investigate whether the inhibition of PBS1 cleavage by the G2AC3/6A mutation was because of structural constraints or the lack of colocalization, we introduced the G2A mutation into AvrPphB, which has been shown to dissociate AvrPphB from the PM (CITATION). The simultaneous overexpression of G2A-AvrPphB and G2AC3/6A-PBS1 in N. benthamiana resulted in PBS1 cleavage, while coexpression with G2A-C98S (a protease-inactive variant of AvrPphB) did not (Fig. 3B), indicating that G2AC3/6A-PBS1 remains a functional substrate for AvrPphB. Taken together, the G2AC3/6A mutation inhibits PBS1 cleavage by AvrPphB by causing PBS1 to localize to a different subcellular compartment from AvrPphB rather than by causing a structural change in PBS1. [[FIGURE]] To further investigate the structural requirements for the activation of RPS5 by PBS1 cleavage, we designed an ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS)-induced mutation screen that enabled us to select for mutations in the native PBS1 gene. For this screen, we generated a transgenic Arabidopsis line that contained avrPphB under the control of an estradiol-inducible promoter, which enabled us to activate RPS5 by germinating seedlings on agarose plates containing estradiol, leading to their death (Supplemental Fig. S3A). To avoid obtaining mutations in RPS5, we employed a transgenic Arabidopsis line that contained at least two copies of an RPS5 transgene, reasoning that it would be highly unlikely for EMS to simultaneously inactivate multiple copies. From this screen, we expected to uncover mutations in PBS1 that either blocked the cleavage of PBS1 by AvrPphB or blocked the recognition of cleavage by RPS5. We also expected to uncover mutations in genes required for RPS5-mediated cell death that functioned downstream of RPS5 activation. We named the above transgenic line EAR5 for estradiol-inducible AvrPphB containing multiple RPS5 genes. There were no morphological differences between EAR5 and wild-type Columbia (Col-0) plants grown in soil. In addition, in the absence of estradiol induction, the growth of virulent P. syringae strain DC3000 or avirulent DC3000(avrPphB) in EAR5 plants was indistinguishable from that in wild-type Col-0 plants (Supplemental Fig. S3B). These data indicate that immune responses are not being activated in EAR5 plants prior to induction of the avrPphB transgene. As shown in Supplemental Figure S3C, spraying estradiol on EAR5 plants induced massive cell death by 48 h post induction. This response was dependent on RPS5, as a transgenic line containing the same estradiol-inducible avrPphB transgene in an rps5 mutant background remained green and healthy after estradiol induction (data not shown). We mutagenized EAR5 seeds with EMS and then screened M2 seeds on agar plates for mutants that germinated in the presence of estradiol. We screened approximately 200,000 M2 seeds divided into 98 pools representing approximately 50 M1 parents each. From this screen, we obtained 65 M2 estradiol-resistant mutants (Supplemental Fig. S3D). To confirm that we were not obtaining rps5 mutants, we sequenced RPS5 from the first seven mutants isolated from five pools; none had mutations in RPS5. Seventeen of the mutants were sterile; thus, 48 mutants from 25 M1 pools were propagated to the M3 generation. Eighteen of the 48 M3 families were found to lack the avrPphB transgene and were discarded. The remaining 30 mutants were tested in the M3 generation for the induction of HR following inoculation with P. syringae DC3000(avrPphB). Nineteen of these lines induced a strong HR, suggesting that these lines contained mutations in the avrPphB transgene system that reduced AvrPphB expression or function. Indeed, seven of these lines were found to contain mutations within avrPphB (data not shown). The remaining 11 M3 families all displayed a compromised HR in response to P. syringae DC3000(avrPphB), making these likely candidates for containing mutations in PBS1. Sequencing of PBS1 in these 11 mutants revealed that five contained mutations in PBS1 (Fig. 4A; Supplemental Fig. S3D), with two of these being identical mutations isolated from the same M2 pool, likely representing siblings. [[FIGURE]] The four new pbs1 mutant alleles were named pbs1-3, pbs1-4, pbs1-5, and pbs1-6, as the pbs1-1 and pbs1-2 alleles have been described previously (CITATION; CITATION). All four new alleles contained missense mutations located within the kinase domain of PBS1 (Fig. 4A). To confirm that these mutations blocked the recognition of P. syringae expressing avrPphB, we inoculated them with P. syringae strain DC3000(avrPphB) at a density of 5 × 107 colony-forming units (cfu) mL−1 and scored for induction of an HR (tissue collapse). As shown in Figure 4B, none of the pbs1 mutants produced an HR, while the EAR5 parent did. To quantify the level of resistance in the pbs1 mutants, we performed in planta bacterial growth assays. The growth of DC3000(avrPphB) in the four new pbs1 mutants was similar to that in pbs1-2 and was approximately 1,000-fold higher than in the EAR5 parent, indicating that all four pbs1 alleles eliminate AvrPphB recognition (Fig. 4C). Mutations in PBS1 could block the activation of RPS5 by several different mechanisms, including destabilizing the PBS1 protein, blocking cleavage by AvrPphB, eliminating kinase activity, and/or blocking the association with RPS5. To assess whether any of the mutations affected stability and/or cleavage by AvrPphB, we transiently coexpressed the pbs1 mutants with avrPphB in N. benthamiana and performed immunoblot analyses. The G103R substitution (pbs1-3) appeared to destabilize PBS1, as it accumulated poorly (Fig. 5). The G286D (pbs1-4), G98E (pbs1-5), and S244F (pbs1-6) substitutions accumulated to levels slightly less than wild-type PBS1. The G98E and S244F substitutions did not affect cleavage by AvrPphB, while the G103R and G286D substitutions appeared to completely block cleavage (Fig. 5). The G98E substitution is located in the P-loop (Walker A motif) of PBS1 (Fig. 6) and is thus expected to eliminate ATP binding and kinase activity, which likely accounts for its failure to activate RPS5. The S244F substitution is located immediately C terminal of the cleavage site and thus may affect cleavage when AvrPphB is delivered from P. syringae. Why G103R and G286D block cleavage is unclear, but this observation suggests that these mutations are disrupting the overall structure of PBS1, which is plausible given that each substitution causes the introduction of a charged side chain in place of no side chain. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To gain further insight into the structural basis of PBS1 recognition by RPS5, we compared the amino acid sequence of RPS5 with those of closely related members of the receptor-like cytoplasmic kinase family that are not recognized by RPS5. The Arabidopsis genome contains 29 PBS1-like (PBL) proteins, with the most similar (PBL27) being 86% identical and 92% similar across the kinase domain (Supplemental Fig. S4). To assess whether PBLs were distinguished based on their ability to be cleaved by AvrPphB, we cloned the five PBL proteins most similar to PBS1 (PBL5, PBL6, PBL7, PBL23, and PBL27) along with one of the most dissimilar PBLs (PBL9) and tested for cleavage by AvrPphB using transient coexpression in N. benthamiana. Four of the PBL proteins appeared to be cleaved based on the disappearance of the full-length protein (PBL5, PBL7, PBL9, and PBL27), but only PBL27 (the most similar paralog) consistently produced a detectable cleavage product (Supplemental Fig. S4B). The lack of a detectable cleavage product in the other three suggests that the cleavage products are rapidly degraded following cleavage. These same PBLs were also tested for their ability to activate RPS5 in N. benthamiana when coexpressed with AvrPphB, but none was able to do so (Supplemental Fig. S4C). Together, these results indicate that RPS5 can distinguish among the PBL proteins independent of their ability to be cleaved by AvrPphB. The high sequence similarity between PBL27 and PBS1 suggested that RPS5 must distinguish between these two proteins based on a small number of amino acid differences. To narrow down the region conferring RPS5 specificity, we took advantage of our finding that RPS5 can be activated in the absence of AvrPphB by coexpression of “engineered” PBS1 cleavage products (i.e. the two halves of PBS1 generated by AvrPphB cleavage; CITATION). We reasoned that RPS5 specificity might lie in either the N-terminal or C-terminal half of PBS1; therefore, we coexpressed the N-terminal half of PBS1 with the C-terminal half of PBL27 and vice versa and assessed whether RPS5 was activated. HR was observed when the PBL27 N terminus was combined with the PBS1 C terminus in the presence of RPS5 but not when the PBL27 C terminus was used (Fig. 6A). Similar results were observed when using cleavage fragments from a PBS1 homolog from the moss Physcomitrella patens (PpPBS1), which also has high sequence similarity to PBS1 (Supplemental Figs. S4 and S5). Only the combination PpPBS1 N terminus plus PBS1 C terminus could trigger RPS5-dependent HR. These findings indicate that the specificity for RPS5 lies within the C-terminal half of PBS1. Sequence alignment of the kinase domains from PBS1, PBL27, and PpPBS1 revealed a five-amino acid motif in the C-terminal half of the kinase domain that is different in PpPBS1 (NSRAA) and PBL27 (NARAP) compared with PBS1 (SEMPH; Supplemental Fig. S6A). Inspection of the entire Arabidopsis PBL family shown in Supplemental Figure S4 confirmed that SEMPH is unique to PBS1. To test if this motif is necessary for RPS5-triggered HR, we made reciprocal exchanges of the SEMPH and NARAP motifs between PBS1 and PBL27 and coexpressed the wild-type and mutated proteins together with AvrPphB and RPS5 in N. benthamiana (Fig. 6B). The sequence change in PBS1 resulted in a loss of HR, while the introduction of the SEMPH motif into PBL27 enabled RPS5-triggered HR. To exclude the possibility that AvrPphB does not cleave the mutated PBS1 protein, immunoblot analysis was performed (Supplemental Fig. S6B). All proteins were cleaved by AvrPphB. The SEMPH motif is thus a key specificity determinant that enables RPS5 to distinguish PBS1 from closely related kinases. To gain further insight into the SEMPH motif, we mapped this sequence onto the predicted structure of PBS1 (Fig. 6C; Supplemental Movie S1). Significantly, SEMPH resides on an exposed loop of PBS1. This loop is located on the opposite side of the PBS1 kinase domain from the cleavage site (Lys-243), which suggests that RPS5 may be detecting PBS1 cleavage by sensing the movement of the SEMPH motif following cleavage.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and Nicotiana benthamiana plants were grown in Metro-Mix 360 potting mixture (Sun Gro Horticulture) under a 9-h-light/15-h-dark cycle at 150 μmol m−2 s−1 and 23°C. The pbs1-1 and pbs1-2 mutants have been described previously (CITATION). For HR assays in Arabidopsis, Pseudomonas syringae strain DC3000(avrPphB) was grown on King’s medium B agar, resuspended in 10 mm MgCl2, and infiltrated into leaves of 5-week-old plants using a needless syringe at 5 × 107 cfu mL−1 (optical density at 600 nm [OD600] = 0.05). The HR was scored and photographs were taken 24 h after inoculation. To measure bacterial growth in Arabidopsis, leaves of 5-week-old Arabidopsis plants were infiltrated with DC3000(avrPphB) at 105 cfu mL−1. Leaf discs totaling 0.5 cm2 were removed with a cork borer, ground in 10 mm MgCl2, and plated by serial dilution on selective medium in three replicates at the indicated time points. All constructs used in this study were generated using a modified multisite Gateway cloning system (Invitrogen) as described previously (CITATION). PBS1 and AvrPphB derivatives were PCR amplified from a wild-type PBS1 plasmid template with primers containing the desired mutations (Supplemental Table S1) and cloned into the donor vector pBSDONR P1-P4 (CITATION) using Gateway BP Clonase (Life Technologies). Engineered PBS1 cleavage products were cloned by amplifying the corresponding regions of the PBS1 open reading frame (nucleotides 1–729 for the N-terminal product and 730–1,368 for the C-terminal product). Fusion of sYFP with the N-terminal 20 amino acids of PBS1 was created by PCR amplification with an ultramer forward primer comprising the corresponding coding sequence of PBS1 and the first 18 nucleotides of sYFP. All constructs were cloned into pBSDONR P1-P4. 5× Myc, 3× HA, and sYFP tags in the donor vector pBSDONR P4r-P2 have been described previously (CITATION). To create protein fusions with epitope tags or fluorescent proteins, the desired “P1-P4” clone, “P4r-P2” clone, and destination vector containing attR1 and attR2 sites were mixed approximately in a 2:2:1 m ratio, and recombination was accomplished by the addition of Gateway LR Clonase II (Life Technologies) and incubation at room temperature overnight. To create the estradiol-inducible avrPphB construct, the estradiol-inducible Gateway destination cassette of pMDC7 (CITATION) was subcloned into the multicloning site of pGREENII0229 (CITATION) to generate the pGRIIesdl estradiol-inducible expression vector with a Basta-selectable marker for plant transformation. The avrPphB gene in pBSDONR P1-P4 and the 5× Myc tag in pBSDONR P4r-P2 were recombined with pGRIIesdl using Gateway LR Clonase II. All constructs were sequenced for verification. Site-directed mutagenesis PCR was performed using a pBSDONR PBS1 template to generate G103R, G286D, G98E, S244F, and SEMPH-to-NARAP exchange entry clones. pBSDONR PBL27 was used as a template for site-directed mutagenesis to generate a NARAP-to-SEMPH exchange. The entry clones and 3× HA were recombined into a pTA7002 destination vector (carrying a dexamethasone-inducible promoter) using Gateway LR Clonase II (CITATION). All constructs were verified by sequencing. Primer sequences used in cloning are listed in Supplemental Table S1. Transient expression assays were performed as described previously (CITATION). Briefly, dexamethasone-inducible constructs were mobilized into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101(pMP90). After overnight culture in Luria-Bertani medium, cells were pelleted and resuspended in 10 mm MgCl2 with 100 μm acetosyringone (Sigma-Aldrich). For single construct expression, the suspensions were diluted to OD600 = 0.3 before infiltration. For coexpression of multiple constructs, suspensions were mixed in equal ratios before infiltration such that each strain was present at an OD600 of 0.3 in the final mixture. The cells was incubated for 2 h at room temperature and infiltrated into leaves of 4-week-old N. benthamiana plants. Transgenes were induced by spraying leaves with 50 µm dexamethasone 40 h after inoculation. Samples were harvested for protein extraction 4 to 6 h after dexamethasone application. Laser scanning confocal microscopy was performed at 6 to 8 h after dexamethasone application, unless stated otherwise. For total protein extraction, six infiltrated leaves were ground in lysis buffer (50 mm Tris, pH 7.5, 150 mm NaCl, 0.1% [v/v] Nonidet P-40, and 1% [v/v] Plant Proteinase Inhibitor Cocktail [Sigma-Aldrich]). Homogenates were centrifuged twice at 13,000 rpm at 4°C for 10 min, and supernatants were transferred to new tubes. For immunoblots, crude extracts were mixed with 4× SDS loading buffer (50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 6.8, 2% (w/v) SDS, 10% (v/v) glycerol, 1% (v/v) β-mercaptoethanol, 12.5 mm EDTA, and 0.02% (w/v) bromphenol blue) at a ratio of 3:1 and boiled for 10 min before resolving by SDS-PAGE. Immunoprecipitations were performed as described previously (CITATION) using an anti-HA monoclonal antibody matrix (Roche). All protein samples were resolved on 4% to 20% (w/v) gradient Tris-HEPES-SDS polyacrylamide gels (Thermo Scientific) and transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane for probing with anti-c-Myc peroxidase (Roche), anti-HA peroxidase (Sigma), or streptavidin peroxidase (Pierce). The ImmunoStar HRP Substrate Kit (Bio-Rad) was used for detecting antibody complexes. The in vitro detection of PBS1 S-acylation was performed as described by CITATION. Briefly, immunoprecipitate of N20-sYFP:HA or n20-sYFP:HA was treated with 50 mm N-ethylmaleimide (Sigma-Aldrich) in lysis buffer for 48 h to block free sulfhydryl groups. Immunoprecipitates were then washed, treated for 1 h with 1 m hydroxylamine (Sigma-Aldrich) to hydrolyze any Cys-palmitate or Cys-stearate thioester bonds, washed, and then treated with 1 μm EZ-Link Biotin-BMCC {1-biotinamido-4-[4′-(maleimidomethyl)cyclohexanecarboxamido]butane; Pierce} in 50 mm Tris, pH 7.0, for 2 h to label cleaved thioester bonds. Immunoprecipitates were washed, resuspended in nonreducing protein sample buffer (10% [w/v] SDS, 1 m Tris-HCl, pH 6.8, 25% [w/v] Suc, and 0.01% [w/v] bromphenol blue), resolved by SDS-PAGE, and transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane. Membranes were probed with streptavidin-horseradish peroxidase (Pierce) to detect the incorporation of biotin. In vivo labeling of Saccharomyces cerevisiae with [3H]palmitic acid was performed as described previously (CITATION). Briefly, C-terminal 2× FLAG-tagged PBS1 was expressed under the control of a Gal-inducible promoter. Yeast strains were grown to midlog phase in Yeast Extract Peptone Adenine Dextrose media and then diluted (5:50 mL) into complete minimal medium containing 3% raffinose and grown to stationary phase. Approximately 1.7 × 109 cells were then resuspended in 100 mL of rich medium (1% [w/v] bacto yeast extract, 2% [w/v] bacto peptone, and 4% [w/v] Gal) and grown for 4 h at 30°C. Cells (approximately 1 × 109) were resuspended in 25 mL of rich medium containing 3% (w/v) Gal, 3 µg mL−1 cerulenin (Sigma-Aldrich), and 50 µCi mL−1 [3H]palmitic acid (Perkin-Elmer Life Sciences). Yeast was labeled for 4 h at 30°C before harvesting. Cells were then lysed, PBS1 immunoprecipitated, and subjected to SDS-PAGE. The gel was then treated with Amplify (Amersham Biosciences) to enhance the tritium signal before drying. The gel was analyzed by autoradiography (10-month exposure). To determine protein expression, identical samples were analyzed by immunoblotting with an anti-FLAG M2 peroxidase conjugate antibody (Sigma). An Arabidopsis PBS1 genomic clone was isolated from Col-0 genomic DNA as described previously (CITATION), tagged with a 3× HA epitope directly upstream of the stop codon, and G2A and G2A/C3A/C6A amino acid substitutions were introduced by site-directed mutagenesis. The resulting clones were then placed in the binary vector pJHA212B and transformed into pbs1-1 plants via A. tumefaciens-mediated floral dipping (CITATION). T1 pbs1-1:PBS1-HA plants were isolated by Basta selection in soil. Confocal laser scanning microscopy was performed on an SP5 AOBS inverted confocal microscope (Leica Microsystems) equipped with a 63×, numerical aperture-1.2 water objective. sYFP fusions were excited with a 514-nm argon laser and detected using a 522- to 545-nm band-pass emission filter. To obtain three-dimensional images, a series of Z-stack images were collected and then combined and processed using the three-dimensional image-analysis software IMARIS 7.0 (Bitplane Scientific Software; http://www.bitplane.com). The RPS5:HPB transgenic line (pRPS5:RPS5:HPB/rps5) was a kind gift from Fumiaki Katagiri (University of Minnesota; CITATION). The EAR5 transgenic plant was generated by transforming the estradiol-inducible avrPphB construct described above into the RPS5:HPB background. EAR5 seeds were treated with 0.2% EMS (Sigma-Aldrich) for 16 h with gentle agitation. Mutagenized M1 plants were grown under long days in a greenhouse and allowed to self-fertilize. M2 seeds were collected from pools of approximately 50 M1 parents, generating a total of 98 M2 pools. Approximately 200,000 M2 seeds from 98 pools were screened on one-half-strength Murashige and Skoog agar plates containing 20 μm estradiol. Surviving plants were transferred to soil 10 d after germination. Phylogenetic analyses were conducted using MEGA5 (CITATION). Full-length protein sequences were aligned using ClustalW, and a sequence similarity tree was created using the neighbor-joining algorithm (CITATION). Boostrap values were calculated from 1,000 replicates. The structure of PBS1 was modeled as described previously using the crystal structure of the tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) Pto kinase (Protein Data Bank accession no. 2QKW) as a template (CITATION). Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers NC_003070 (RPS5), NC_003076 (PBS1), NP_001184932 (PBL5), NP_180426 (PBL6), NP_195900 (PBL7), NP_001184929 (PBL9), NP_188689 (PBL23), NP_001190331 (PBL27), and AJ870974 (AvrPphB). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Localization of PBS1 derivatives. Supplemental Figure S2. Mutation of the PBS1 S-acylation site does not affect the susceptibility of Arabidopsis to P. syringae strain DC3000 lacking AvrPphB. Supplemental Figure S3. Isolation of new pbs1 alleles using an estradiol-inducible AvrPphB expression system. Supplemental Figure S4. PBS1 paralogs cannot substitute for PBS1 in the activation of RPS5 in N. benthamiana transient assays. Supplemental Figure S5. The moss PBS1 N-terminal cleavage product (nPpPBS1) can substitute for the PBS1 N-terminal cleavage product. Supplemental Figure S6. Mutation of the C-terminal SEMPH motif in PBS1 does not affect cleavage by AvrPphB. Supplemental Figure S7. Alignment of the PBS1 SEMPH loop region from PBS1 orthologs from the National Center for Biotechnology Information nonredundant protein database. Supplemental Table S1. Primer sequences used in this study. Supplemental Movie S1. Model of PBS1 rotating in space.
