!~ABS~! Autophagy is a well-defined catabolic mechanism whereby cytoplasmic materials are engulfed into a structure termed the autophagosome. In plants, little is known about the underlying mechanism of autophagosome formation. In this study, we report that SH3 DOMAIN-CONTAINING PROTEIN2 (SH3P2), a Bin-Amphiphysin-Rvs domain–containing protein, translocates to the phagophore assembly site/preautophagosome structure (PAS) upon autophagy induction and actively participates in the membrane deformation process. Using the SH3P2–green fluorescent protein fusion as a reporter, we found that the PAS develops from a cup-shaped isolation membranes or endoplasmic reticulum–derived omegasome-like structures. Using an inducible RNA interference (RNAi) approach, we show that RNAi knockdown of SH3P2 is developmentally lethal and significantly suppresses autophagosome formation. An in vitro membrane/lipid binding assay demonstrates that SH3P2 is a membrane-associated protein that binds to phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate. SH3P2 may facilitate membrane expansion or maturation in coordination with the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) complex during autophagy, as SH3P2 promotes PI3K foci formation, while PI3K inhibitor treatment inhibits SH3P2 from translocating to autophagosomes. Further interaction analysis shows that SH3P2 associates with the PI3K complex and interacts with ATG8s in Arabidopsis thaliana, whereby SH3P2 may mediate autophagy. Thus, our study has identified SH3P2 as a novel regulator of autophagy and provided a conserved model for autophagosome biogenesis in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! Previous studies identified three SH3 domain–containing proteins in Arabidopsis: SH3P1, SH3P2, and SH3P3 (CITATION, CITATION). Structural analysis revealed that the three proteins also contain an N-terminal BAR domain. Such structural features are found in endophilins, a well-known membrane-associated protein family that actively participates in clathrin-dependent endocytosis (CITATION). Sequence alignment analysis revealed that SH3P2 shares significant similarities to SH3P1 and SH3P3, with amino acid identities of 43 and 53%, respectively (see Supplemental Figure 1A online). However, SH3P1 and SH3P3, but not SH3P2, have been reported to interact with endocytic partners (CITATION, CITATION), indicating that SH3P2 might function in other pathway(s). Interestingly, in mammalian cells, Bif-1, in contrast with other endophilin subfamily members, has been shown to play a role in autophagy (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). To test for a possible role of SH3P2 in autophagy in plants, we first generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing green fluorescent protein-tagged SH3P2 (SH3P2-GFP) driven by a ubiquitin (UBQ) promoter and examined the subcellular distribution of SH3P2-GFP after autophagy induction. Benzo-(1,2,3)-thiadiazole-7-carbothioic acid S-methyl ester (BTH), a salicylic acid agonist that triggers the autophagic pathway in Arabidopsis (CITATION; CITATION), was applied to transgenic SH3P2-GFP plants. As shown in Figure 1Bb, SH3P2-GFP largely translocated from the cytosol (Figure 1Ba) to numerous punctate compartments after 8 h of BTH treatment. In addition, treatment with Concanamycin A (Conc A), a V-ATPase inhibitor, greatly increased the number of SH3P2-GFP punctae in the vacuole (Figure 1Bc). Since Conc A treatment leads to vacuole deacidification and prevents the degradation of autophagic bodies in the vacuole (CITATION), these results indicate that SH3P2-GFP is in the autophagic pathway in Arabidopsis. [[FIGURE]] To confirm the autophagic response of SH3P2, we next tested if SH3P2-GFP is sensitive to N starvation, another well-defined condition for autophagy induction (CITATION). Indeed, the population of SH3P2-GFP–positive compartments was greatly increased in transgenic SH3P2-GFP plants subjected to N starvation (Figure 1Bd) and even more when N starvation was combined with Conc A treatment (Figure 1Be). Further time-course analysis showed that autophagy induction by BTH is more pronounced than that of N starvation treatment (see Supplemental Figures 2A and 2B online). Taken together, these results demonstrate that SH3P2-GFP indeed lies on the autophagic pathway in Arabidopsis. To find out if SH3P2-GFP functions as endogenous SH3P2 in autophagy in Arabidopsis, we next generated antibodies specific to SH3P2 and ATG8e, an accepted autophagosome marker in plants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Immunoblot analysis using proteins isolated from either Arabidopsis wild-type or transgenic SH3P2-GFP or yellow fluorescent protein (YFP)–ATG8e plants showed that the SH3P2 and ATG8e antibodies specifically recognized the endogenous as well as the GFP fusion proteins (Figure 1C). In addition, ATG8e antibodies also recognized the ATG8f isoform (see Supplemental Figure 2C online). Further immunofluorescent labeling studies using transgenic SH3P2-GFP plants showed that signals of SH3P2 antibody labeling were largely colocalized with SH3P2-GFP before or after BTH treatments (Figures 1Da to 1Dc), demonstrating the high specificity of the SH3P2 antibodies. Similarly, signals of ATG8e antibodies overlapped with those of YFP-ATG8e in YFP-ATG8e transgenic plants (see Supplemental Figure 3D online). In addition, in cells subjected autophagy induction, most of the SH3P2-GFP punctae colocalized with the immunofluorescent signals from ATG8e antibodies (Figure 1Dd), confirming that the SH3P2 punctae are indeed autophagosomes or related structures. Since the SH3P2 punctae did not fully overlap with the anti-ATG8e signals and ATG8e is believed to be a late/mature autophagosome marker, the distinct SH3P2 foci might represent autophagosome precursors. Such a scenario was therefore tested in the following experiments. To verify the autophagosomal nature of the SH3P2-positive compartments, we performed colocalization studies using Arabidopsis protoplasts transiently coexpressing SH3P2-RFP (for red fluorescent protein) with several known components of core autophagy machinery. These included the PI3K complex (ATG6-YFP), ATG9 complex (ATG9-GFP), and ATG8 conjugate system (YFP-ATG8e and YFP-ATG8f) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). As shown in Figure 2A, ATG6-YFP and ATG9-GFP punctae largely colocalized with SH3P2-RFP, whereas the YFP-ATG8e and YFP-ATG8f dots only partially overlapped with SH3P2-RFP punctae. In addition, the dots and ring-like structures defined by both YFP-ATG8e and YFP-ATG8f perfectly overlapped with SH3P2-RFP, particularly on the membrane, but not in the lumen (Figure 2B), thus excluding the possibility that SH3P2-GFP is sequestered into the autophagosome lumen as cargo. By contrast, as shown in Supplemental Figure 3B online, SH3P2-GFP–positive punctae were distinct from most endomembrane organelle markers, including ManImannan endo-1,4-β-mannosidase1-RFP (Golgi apparatus), RFP-vacuolar sorting receptor (multivesicular body/prevacuolar compartment), and RFP-SYP61 (trans-Golgi network) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Taken together, these results demonstrate that both SH3P2 fusions and native SH3P2 proteins are characteristic of autophagosome-related structures in Arabidopsis. [[FIGURE]] A general model for autophagosome formation in yeast and mammalian cells involves a series of morphological steps beginning with the initiation of PAS, expansion of the autophagosome membrane, maturation of the autophagosome by cargo sequestration, and completion of the double membrane (CITATION). However, there are only limited evidences for this model in plant cells (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). SH3P2-GFP signals were shown to translocate onto the autophagosome membrane upon autophagy induction in Arabidopsis cells (Figures 1B and 2B), indicating its involvement in membrane progression of autophagosome formation. We thus hypothesized that the dynamics of SH3P2-positive structure formation in Arabidopsis generally reflects autophagosome biogenesis in plants, which can be observed and traced by time-lapse imaging of SH3P2-GFP in transgenic plants subjected to autophagy induction. Indeed, SH3P2-GFP first accumulated on a tubular-like structure (likely the isolation membrane) and gradually expanded into a cup-shaped structure at 1 min 30 s (Figure 3A, indicated by open arrow; see Supplemental Movie 1 online). After ∼4 min, the isolation membrane sealed into a complete ring-like compartment, followed by the appearance of two ring-like structures at ∼13 min 30 s. At the same time, another dot appeared (indicated by closed arrow), which ultimately form a ring-like structure. Interestingly, a protruding tail-like tube headed by a SH3P2-GFP spot was often observed (indicated by arrows) and likely represents developing autophagosomes for cargo sequestration (Figure 3B; see Supplemental Movie 2 online). [[FIGURE]] We next performed immunogold EM studies to elucidate the ultrastructure of SH3P2-GFP–positive compartments. Transgenic SH3P2-GFP Arabidopsis plants were first subjected to autophagy induction, followed by sample fixation processing via high-pressure freezing/freeze substitution and subsequent immunogold labeling using SH3P2 antibodies. Examples representing the autophagosome formation steps were identified: (1) the isolation membrane, (2) the cup-shape structure, (3) the encircling compartment, and (4) the completed double-membrane ring-like structure (Figure 4). The diameters of these SH3P2-positive structures ranged from 300 to 1000 nm, while SH3P2 predominantly localized to the membrane surfaces (Figure 4). Similar results were obtained using GFP antibodies (see Supplemental Figure 4A online). [[FIGURE]] SH3P2-positive structures with multiple membrane layers were also observed, which seemed to undergo a similar expansion and maturation process to form a multiple-layer compartment (Figure 5A). In addition, amphisome-like structures with fusion events were also found to be labeled by SH3P2 antibodies (Figure 5B). Interestingly, some of the SH3P2-positive structures were large and contained a long protruding membrane that engulfed organelle cargos (Figure 5C). We believe that these compartments correspond to the tubular structures observed under confocal microscopy (Figure 3B; see Supplemental Movie 2 online). [[FIGURE]] To verify that the SH3P2-labeled structures detected in Arabidopsis are indeed autophagosomes, we performed double-immunogold labeling using both SH3P2 and ATG8e antibodies in transgenic SH3P2-GFP plants after autophagy induction. As shown in Figure 6A, SH3P2 was predominantly detected on the membrane of the bi/multilayered structures, while ATG8e was dispersed. These results are consistent with the previous confocal observations (Figures 1Dd and 2B) and further support the notion that the SH3P2-GFP punctae were indeed autophagosomes or related structures. A consistent result was also obtained in double transgenic plants expressing SH3P2-GFP and a known autophagosome marker (mCherry-ATG8f). As shown in Figure 6C, after autophagy induction, the mCherry-ATG8f ring-like or tubular structures were seen to largely overlap with the SH3P2-GFP signals in the double transgenic plants. Taken together, these results confirm that SH3P2 translocates onto the autophagosome membrane during autophagy and defines a conserved autophagosome formation process in Arabidopsis. [[FIGURE]] In yeast and mammalian cells, an ER-derived and PI3P-enriched structure named the omegasome has been reported to contribute to the generation of the PAS (CITATION; CITATION). Interestingly, we also observed a proportion of the preautophagosomal structures exhibited ER fragments on both the outside and inside membrane surfaces (Figures 4C, 5Ab, and 5Ac). In some cases, isolation membranes labeled by SH3P2 seemed to be derived from the ER membrane with evident ribosomes (see Supplemental Figure 4B online). These observations were further supported by double immunogold labeling using Calnexin (ER marker) and SH3P2 antibodies, which showed their colocalization on the same autophagosome structures (Figure 6B). Consistently, in the SH3P2-GFP/ER-mCherry double transgenic plants, ring-like structures positively labeled by SH3P2-GFP were found to overlap largely with the ER-mCherry signals, proximally on the membrane, but not in the lumen during autophagy (Figure 6D). Since the ER network is the major source of membranes in the cell, plants might use the ER membrane as a platform for acute proliferation of autophagosomes. However, other membrane sources may be needed to generate the PAS because some of the SH3P2-GFP–positive autophagosome structures did not exhibit a direct connection to the ER (Figure 4). We next used a loss-of-function approach to gain an insight into the role of SH3P2 in autophagy in Arabidopsis. We failed to obtain a T-DNA insertional knockout mutant of SH3P2. Alternatively, we employed a hairpin RNAi knockdown method to generate transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing hairpin RNAi for SH3P2 under the control of the constitutive 35S promoter. Immunoblot analysis confirmed that this RNAi construct is specific for SH3P2 (Figure 7B; see Supplemental Figure 5B online). However, we failed to obtain a SH3P2 RNAi knockdown plant under the control of the 35S promoter. Instead, we used the dexamethasone (DEX) inducible promoter to drive the hairpin RNAi fragment against SH3P2 and generated the dex:RNAi-sh3p2 plants. When triggered with DEX, dex:RNAi-sh3p2 plants were arrested soon after germination and exhibited abnormal root growth (Figure 7A). RT-PCR analysis confirmed that sh3p2 transcription was downregulated upon DEX induction in transgenic plants (lines 10, 17, and 16) when compared with the wild type (Figure 7D). [[FIGURE]] Line 16 was used for testing the optimal silencing conditions for further examination in the SH3P2 knockdown background. Time-course tracing experiments showed that an abnormal phenotype in dex:RNAi-sh3p2 started to appear from 2 d after DEX induction (see Supplemental Figure 5A online). RT-PCR analysis confirmed that the sh3p2 transcription level was significantly downregulated after a 2-d DEX induction (Figure 7E). At day 14 after DEX induction, dex:RNAi-sh3p2 plants exhibited early leaf senescence and abnormal root development, whereas the wild-type plants remained normal (Figure 7C). We thus used 7-d-old dex:RNAi-sh3p2 seedlings 2 d after DEX induction for subsequent analyses. To monitor the fate of autophagy in the SH3P2 knockdown background, we crossed the transgenic plant expressing the autophagosome marker (UBQ:YFP-ATG8e) with the dex:RNAi-sh3p2 plant and induced autophagy with N starvation. As shown in Figure 8A, in the absence of DEX treatment, autophagy was induced, with the progressive detection of YFP-ATG8e punctae and enhanced YFP signal in the vacuole after N starvation, whereas additional Conc A treatment caused numerous autophagic bodies to accumulate. However, upon DEX induction, YFP-ATG8e degradation was suppressed during N starvation, with fewer autophagic bodies forming within the vacuole even in the presence of Conc A (Figure 8A, bottom panel). Consistent results were obtained in an EM analysis. As shown in Figure 8B, autophagic bodies accumulated within the vacuoles of cells subjected to N starvation and Conc A treatment, but not in control cells pretreated with DEX. [[FIGURE]] Immunoblot analysis was performed to measure the autophagic flux by examining the turnover ratio of YFP-ATG8e and free YFP. As shown in Figure 8C, when UBQ:YFP-ATG8e/dex:RNAi-sh3p2 plants were subjected to N starvation without DEX induction, the amount of free YFP increased, whereas YFP-ATG8e decreased, which represents the normal processed degradation of autophagosomes in the vacuole. However, upon DEX induction, a significant delay in autophagy flux was detected, as indicated by the enhanced YFP-ATG8e signals, but without a significant increase in YFP signals (Figure 8C). In addition, small YFP-ATG8e positive punctae/tubules instead of ring-like structures accumulated within the cells after DEX induction (Figure 8A, arrowheads), suggesting that SH3P2 is not required for the recruitment of YFP-ATG8e to the autophagosome membrane. To distinguish whether SH3P2 functions before or after the completion of autophagosome formation, we examined the ATG8 conversion rate in dex:RNAi-sh3p2 plants using ATG8e antibodies (CITATION; CITATION). Generally, upon autophagy induction, an enhanced flux can be detected as the total amount of ATG8-PE is increased (representing the forming/completed autophagosomes), while the cytosolic ATG8 form decreases. Surprisingly, the expression levels of ATG8e-PE and ATG8e were remarkably increased after the suppression of SH3P2 (Figure 8D), implying that autophagosome expansion and/or maturation step(s) may be impaired, in which ATG8-PE has already conjugated onto the autophagosome membrane but is unable to be completed or delivered into the vacuole. Similar results were obtained in identical experiments when BTH was used to induce autophagy (see Supplemental Figure 5C online). Therefore, it is likely that SH3P2 is required for the autophagosome expansion and/or maturation step(s). Since SH3P2 contains a BAR domain (Figure 1A), which is a well-known membrane-binding module for membrane deformation (CITATION), we propose that SH3P2 binds to the autophagosome membrane by itself to facilitate the expansion or fusion of autophagosome. Therefore, we next performed an in vitro liposome binding assay to test its membrane-binding capability. Indeed, as shown in Figure 9A, His-maltose-binding protein (MBP)-SH3P2 recombinant proteins bind to liposomes, whereas the control His-MBP proteins showed little binding. [[FIGURE]] To determine which lipid SH3P2 binds to, we next performed an in vitro lipid binding assay. As shown in Figure 9B, SH3P2 recombinant proteins bind to phosphatidylinositol phosphates (PIPs), especially PI3P, whereas no signal was detected in the control with the His-MBP proteins. In addition, as shown in Supplemental Figure 6A, SH3P2-GFP–positive punctae largely overlap with the PI3P reporter (RFP-2XFYVE) (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), further confirming that SH3P2 is able to bind to PI3P. A conserved PI3K activity is essential for autophagy in plants, as silencing of ATG6 and VPS34 has been shown to limit cell death and reduce autophagosome formation in Arabidopsis and Nicotiana benthamiana plants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). When SH3P2-CFP (for cyan fluorescent protein) was coexpressed with VPS34-GFP and ATG6-RFP, we observed an enhanced production of VPS34- and ATG6-positive punctae that colocalized with SH3P2-CFP (Figure 9C). However, when SH3P2 was anchored onto the ER membrane by fusion with the ER retention signal of calnexin (CITATION; CITATION), the number of VPS34-GFP– and ATG6-RFP–positive punctae was significantly reduced (Figure 9C; see Supplemental Figure 6B online). On the other hand, treatment with wortmannin, a PI3K inhibitor blocking autophagy (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), resulted in a significant reduction of SH3P2-GFP and mCherryATG8f foci formation during autophagy, implying that SH3P2 is sensitive to wortmannin and requires PI3K activity to function in autophagy (Figure 9D). To better understand the molecular links between SH3P2 and the autophagy machinery, we searched for its interaction partner(s). Both yeast two-hybrid and immunoprecipitation assays showed that SH3P2 has a strong self-interaction via its BAR domain (Figures 10A to 10D), a result consistent with the known dimerization property of BAR domains (CITATION). Moreover, we showed that SH3P2 was immunoprecipitated with ATG6, while no significant interaction was detected in the yeast two-hybrid assay (Figures 10A and 10E). These results indicate that SH3P2 is associated with the PI3K complex via other potential mediator(s). [[FIGURE]] Interestingly, it was implied that SH3P2 interacts with ATG8f, based on the results of a yeast two-hybrid assay (CITATION). Indeed, we showed that SH3P2 interacted with both ATG8f and ATG8e in our yeast two-hybrid assay (Figure 10A). These interactions were confirmed by an in vivo coimmunoprecipitation analysis using epitope-tagged SH3P2 and ATG8e or ATG8f, respectively (Figure 10E). In addition, endogenous SH3P2 was precipitated with YFP-ATG8e in transgenic Arabidopsis plants after autophagy induction (Figure 10F). Intriguingly, this interaction seems to be mediated by the SH3 domain of SH3P2 (Figure 10G).
!~MM~! The GFP/YFP/RFP/mCherry/4HA fusion constructs used for transient expression in protoplasts were created by cloning the PCR-amplified cDNA into the pBI221 backbone containing the UBQ promoter. To generate the SH3P2 RNAi construct driven by 35S promoter, a 500-bp sequence of SH3P2 (nucleotide positions 477 to 976) predicted using MatchPoint (http://plantindustry.csiro.au/RNAi/software.htm) was amplified as two fragments and inserted into the hairpin RNAi vector pHANNIBAL (CITATION). The SH3P2 RNAi fragment was cloned downstream of a DEX-inducible promoter from pTA7002 (CITATION). For recombinant protein expression, full-length SH3P2 was cloned into the pET-32a-c(+) (Novagen) or a modified pET3a-His-MBP vector (CITATION). Full-length ATG8e was cloned into pGEX4T (GE). The primers used to generate various corresponding constructs are listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. All constructs were confirmed by restriction mapping and DNA sequencing. The primers used in this study are listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. To generate the transgenic plants, all the resulting constructs were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens and transformed into wild-type Columbia-0 by floral dip (CITATION). The GFP transgenic line was generated using the pEGAD plasmid (CITATION). To generate the double transgenic line, ER-mCherry (Basta-resistant) (CITATION) or mCherry-ATG8f (hygromycin-resistant) transgenic plants were first generated and then crossed into the SH3P2-GFP (kanamycin resistant) transgenic plant, respectively. T1 generations were screened with kanamycin and Basta/hygromycin for the presence of ER-mCherry or mCherry-ATG8e, respectively, and by fluorescence microscopy for red signal. For the UBQ:YFP-ATG8e/dex:RNAi-sh3p2 transgenic line, YFP-ATG8e (kanamycin-resistant) transgenic plants were crossed with dex:RNAi-sh3p2 (hygromycin-resistant) transgenic plants, and the T1 generation was selected with kanamycin and hygromycin, followed by screening with the presence of YFP by fluorescence microscopy. Seeds were surface sterilized and sown on plates with Murashige and Skoog (MS) salts plus 0.8% agar. The seeded plates were kept at 4°C for 3 d before being moved to the growth chamber. The plates were incubated at 22°C under a long-day (16 h light/8 h dark) photoperiod. Plants exposed to long-day conditions were transferred to soil after 2 weeks. For starvation induction, 5-d-old seedlings were grown in liquid MS with methanol (1:100) as control or 100 μM BTH at least for 6 h prior to observation or as indicated. N starvation was performed by transferring the seedlings to MS or nitrogen-free MS plates for the indicated times. PI3K activity was inhibited by the addition of 8.95 μM wortmannin in the medium. To analyze the dex:RNAi-sh3p2 plants, 7-d-old RNAi plants were transferred to MS plates supplemented with DEX (30 μM) for 2 d before other treatment. Transient expression in Arabidopsis thaliana plant system biology dark-type culture (PSBD) protoplasts was performed essentially as described previously (CITATION). Confocal fluorescence images were acquired 16 to 18 h after transformation using an Olympus FV1000 system. For each experiment or construct, more than 30 individual cells were observed for confocal imaging that represented >75% of the cells showing similar expression levels and patterns. Images were processed using Adobe Photoshop software (http://www.adobe.com) as previously described (CITATION). Antibodies against SH3P2 were generated with 6XHis-SH3P2 recombinant proteins as antigen. Recombinant 6XHis-SH3P2 proteins were purified from insoluble fractions as His fusion proteins using a Ni column according to standard methods (GE). Following SDS-PAGE, gel pieces containing the recombinant proteins as identified by Coomassie Brilliant Blue staining were extracted and injected directly into rabbits and rats at the Chinese University of Hong Kong. For anti-ATG8e antibody, GST(glutathione S-transferase)-ATG8e recombinant proteins were purified on a GST column (GE) following thrombin digestion. The resulting protein fragments were separated by SDS-PAGE following extraction and used as antigen for rat injection. Antibodies from the rabbits (SH3P2) or rats (ATG8e) were affinity purified using Cyanogen bromide–activated sepharose (Sigma-Aldrich) conjugated with recombinant proteins. Both His-MBP-SH3P2 and His-MBP were expressed in Escherichia coli SoluBL21 cells upon induction with 0.4 mM isopropyl β-d-1-thiogalactopyranoside for 16 h at 28°C, followed by purification as His tag proteins using the His Spin Trap Kit (GE). The PIP strips/arrays (P-6001/6100; Echelon Biosciences) were blocked in 1% fat-free milk in TBS-T (Tris-buffered saline with Tween: 10 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 150 mM NaCl, and 0.1% Tween 20) at room temperature for 1 h. The strips/arrays were then incubated with 10 μg/mL of recombinant proteins at room temperature for 2 h. After incubation with proteins, the strips were washed three times in TBS-T and then incubated for 1 h with 1:100 mouse anti-His antibody (Santa Cruz Biotechnology) at room temperature, followed by three more washes in TBS-T. The signals were detected following the ECL Plus immunoblot method. For the liposome flotation assay, liposomes were prepared as described previously (CITATION). Five micrograms of His-MBP-SH3P2 or His-MBP proteins was incubated with 8 μL of 1.8 mg/mL of liposomes in HKM buffer (20 mM HEPES, pH 7.4, 100 mM KCl, and 5 mM MgCl2) containing 100 μM nucleotides at room temperature. The reaction mixture was adjusted to 1.75 M Suc and overlaid with 100 μL of 0.75 M Suc and 30 μL of HKM (20 mM HEPES, pH 7.4, 100 mM KCl, and 5 mM MgCl2) buffer. The samples were centrifuged at 55,000 rpm in a TLS55 rotor in a Beckman ultracentrifuge for 2.5 h at 4°C. Fractions were collected from the bottom of the tube using a peristaltic pump (RAININ), and aliquots were analyzed by SDS-PAGE. Fixation of root tips of 5-d-old seedlings and their subsequent labeling as well as their analysis by confocal immunofluorescence microscopy followed previously described methods (CITATION; CITATION). The settings for collecting confocal images within the linear range were as described (CITATION). Antibodies were incubated at 4°C overnight at 4-µg/mL working concentrations. All confocal fluorescence images were collected using an Olympus FluoView FV1000 system. Images were processed using Adobe Photoshop software as previously described (CITATION). The general procedures used to prepare transmission EM samples and ultrathin sectioning of samples were described previously (CITATION; CITATION). For high-pressure freezing, 5-d-old transgenic SH3P2-GFP root tips incubated with/without BTH treatment in MS for 6 h were cut from the seedlings and immediately frozen in a high-pressure freezing apparatus (EM PACT2; Leica), with subsequent freeze substitution in dry acetone containing 0.1% uranyl acetate at −85°C. Infiltration with Lowicryl HM20 (Electron Microscopy Sciences), embedding, and UV polymerization were performed stepwise at −35°C. For immunolabeling, standard procedures were performed as described previously (CITATION). The working concentration of affinity-purified antibodies was 40 µg/mL. Calnexin antibodies (Agrisera) were used at a dilution of 1:100. Gold particle–coupled secondary antibodies were diluted as 1:40, followed by a poststaining procedure using aqueous uranyl acetate/lead citrate. Sections were examined using a Hitachi H-7650 transmission electron microscope with a charge-coupled device camera operating at 80 kV (Hitachi High-Technologies). RNA was isolated from plate-grown plants subjected to the indicated treatment (Invitrogen). The first strand for each cDNA was synthesized by Superscript II reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen) in combination with the reverse primer P25 described in Supplemental Table 1 online. Thirty cycles of RT-PCR were then performed using this template, GoTaq polymerase (Bio-Rad), and the reverse primers in combination with forward primers (see Supplemental Table 1 online). The actin gene was used as a RT-PCR internal control. To prepare cell extracts from protoplasts, transformed protoplasts were first diluted threefold with 250 mM NaCl and then harvested by centrifugation at 100g for 10 min, followed by resuspension in lysis buffer containing 25 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 1% SDS, and 1× Complete Protease Inhibitor Cocktail (Roche). The total cell extracts were centrifuged at 20,000g for 30 min at 4°C. For plants, 5-d-old seedlings were ground in liquid nitrogen and extracted with the lysis buffer mentioned above, following the SDS-PAGE or analyzed by immunoblotting. For immunoblot analysis, mouse hemagglutinin antibodies (Abcam) were used at a dilution of 1:1000, while 4 µg/mL of purified antibodies was used and rat serum was diluted by 1:100. Quantification of the relative gray-scale intensity in immunoblot analysis was done using ImageJ software v1.45 (http://lukemiller.org/index.php/2010/11/analyzing-gels-and-western-blots-with-image-j/). Yeast-two hybrid analysis was performed using the MatchMaker GAL4 Two-Hybrid System 3 (Clontech) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The cDNAs were cloned into the pGBKT7 and pGADT7 vectors (Clontech). Pairs of pGBKT7 and pGADT7 vectors were cotransformed into the Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain AH109. Diploids were selected on synthetic drop-out (SD) medium lacking Trp and Leu (SD-TrpLeu), while the selection of yeast cells expressing interacting proteins was made on SD medium lacking His, Trp, and Leu (SD-His-Trp-Leu) containing 0 to 10 mM 3-AT (3-amino-1,2,4-triazole). The experiments (yeast transformation, mating, and selection) were repeated several times independently and similar results were obtained. Protein extraction and immunoprecipitation were performed as described with some modifications (CITATION). Total cell lysates were prepared in lysis buffer (10 mM Tris/HCl at pH 7.4, 150 mM NaCl, 0.5 mM EDTA, 5% glycerol, 0.2% Nonidet P-40, and 2 mM dithiobis [succinimidyl propionate] containing 1× Complete Protease Inhibitor Cocktail) and were then incubated with GFP-TRAP agarose beads (ChromoTek) overnight at 4°C. Samples were washed five times (2000g, 1 min, 4°C) in wash buffer (10 mM Tris/HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, and 0.5 mM EDTA with 1× Complete Protease Inhibitor Cocktail) and then eluted by boiling in 2× SDS sample buffer. Samples were separated by SDS-PAGE and analyzed by immunoblot using appropriate antibodies. The Arabidopsis Genome Initiative locus identifiers for the genes mentioned in this article are as follows: SH3P1 (AT1G31440), SH3P2 (AT4G34660), SH3P3 (AT4G18060), VPS34 (AT1G60490), ATG6 (AT3G61710), ATG8e (AT2G45170), ATG8f (AT4G16520), and ATG9 (AT2G31260). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Sequence Alignment for SH3P2. Supplemental Figure 2. Time-Course Analysis of the Response of SH3P2-GFP to Autophagy Induction and Characterization of ATG8e Antibodies. Supplemental Figure 3. Confocal Analysis of the Subcellular Localization of SH3P1, SH3P2, SH3P3 and Relationship between SH3P2 and Conventional Organelle Markers in Transient Expressed Arabidopsis PSBD Protoplasts. Supplemental Figure 4. Immuno-EM Analysis of SH3P2-GFP–Positive Organelles with GFP Antibodies and Their Connection with the ER Membrane. Supplemental Figure 5. Characterization of dex:RNAi-sh3p2 Plants. Supplemental Figure 6. Confocal Analysis of the Relationship between SH3P2-Containing Compartments and PI3P and the Effect of CNX-SH3P2-CFP. Supplemental Table 1. Oligonucleotides Used in This Study. Supplemental Movie 1. An Overview of Autophagosome Formation Labeled by SH3P2-GFP in the SH3P2-GFP Transgenic Root Tip Cells after BTH Treatment for 8 h. Supplemental Movie 2. Dynamics of the Tubular Structures Labeled by SH3P2-GFP in the SH3P2-GFP Transgenic Root Tip Cells after BTH Treatment for 8 h.
