!~ABS~! Recognition of pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) induces multiple defense mechanisms to limit pathogen growth. Here, we show that the Arabidopsis thaliana tandem zinc finger protein 9 (TZF9) is phosphorylated by PAMP-responsive mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) and is required to trigger a full PAMP-triggered immune response. Analysis of a tzf9 mutant revealed attenuation in specific PAMP-triggered reactions such as reactive oxygen species accumulation, MAPK activation and, partially, the expression of several PAMP-responsive genes. In accordance with these weaker PAMP-triggered responses, tzf9 mutant plants exhibit enhanced susceptibility to virulent Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato DC3000. Visualization of TZF9 localization by fusion to green fluorescent protein revealed cytoplasmic foci that co-localize with marker proteins of processing bodies (P-bodies). This localization pattern is affected by inhibitor treatments that limit mRNA availability (such as cycloheximide or actinomycin D) or block nuclear export (leptomycin B). Coupled with its ability to bind the ribohomopolymers poly(rU) and poly(rG), these results suggest involvement of TZF9 in post-transcriptional regulation, such as mRNA processing or storage pathways, to regulate plant innate immunity.
!~RES~! TZF9 was identified as a potential MPK3 and MPK6 substrate through an unbiased protein array screen (CITATION). To re-validate phosphorylation of TZF9 by MAPKs, a full-length TZF9–MBP-His10x (i.e. with a maltose-binding-protein deca-histidine double tag) protein was expressed in Escherichia coli, purified and used as a substrate for in vitro kinase assays by gluthathione S-transferase-tagged MPK3 or MPK6 (GST–MPK3/6). The phosphorylation of the substrate was detected by staining with the fluorescent ProQ Diamond phosphoprotein stain after running SDS–PAGE. Increased fluorescence signals corresponding to TZF9–MBP-His10x were observed after incubation with recombinant MPK3 and MPK6; thus confirming TZF9 as an in vitro MPK3/6 substrate (Fig. 1A).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In vivo interactions between TZF9 and MPK3 or MPK6 were tested by bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assay in transiently transformed Arabidopsis protoplasts. Reconstitution of the yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) fluorescence suggested interactions between TZF9 and the tested MAPKs in both the cytosol and nucleus (Fig. 1B). Occasionally, cytosolic fluorescent speckles were also observed (e.g. see first MPK3-transformed protoplast in Supplementary Fig. S1A). No reconstituted YFP signals were seen in corresponding negative controls for the BiFC assays (Supplementary Fig. S1B) and hence support the specificities of the MPK–TZF9 interactions. In all cases, protein bands of the expected sizes for the fusion were detected by Western blot, thus excluding that the BiFC signals may be due to truncated protein fragments. Hence, TZF9 shows in vivo interaction with MPK3/6. To validate the in vitro phosphorylation of TZF9 by MAPKs, protoplasts expressing epitope-tagged TZF9 were treated with flg22 PAMP. A reduced mobility of the TZF9 band in SDS–PAGE, as well as a reduction in the TZF9 protein level, was observed (Fig. 1C). In vitro λ-phosphatase treatment of the proteins extracted from the flg22-treated protoplasts restored the protein mobility in SDS–PAGE to that of the untreated or water-treated protoplasts (Fig. 1C, lower panel). Hence, taken together with the in vitro phosphorylation data, these findings are indicative of an in vivo MAPK-mediated TZF9 phospho-modification after flg22 treatment, presumably leading to alteration of TZF9 protein stability. Since MPK3 and MPK6 are PAMP activated, a MAPK substrate such as TZF9 may contribute to cellular signaling induced by PAMPs. A reverse genetic approach was followed to address possible roles of TZF9 in PAMP signaling. Various PAMP-dependent responses were analyzed in a knockout tzf9 T-DNA insertion line (see the Materials and Methods). Constant exposure to PAMPs arrests plant development, and the root growth inhibition is a facile quantitative readout of such PAMP-mediated effects (CITATION). Wild-type Col-0 and tzf9 mutant plants were grown in medium supplemented with flg22 or elf18. Under these experimental conditions, tzf9 seedlings are partially sensitive to PAMPs, with less root growth inhibition compared with the Col-0 seedlings (Fig. 1D). Besides this root growth arrest, aerial tissues of the elf18-treated tzf9 seedlings remained partially green compared with the brown Col-0 seedlings (Fig. 1D). To exclude that the altered growth arrest might be due to second site mutation(s) in the tzf9 T-DNA insertion mutant line, complementation with a genomic clone was performed. Response to flg22 is restored in the complemented line, corroborating that the phenotype is indeed caused by the tzf9 mutation (Supplementary Fig. S2). Flg22 treatment induces reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation in leaf discs from 6-week-old plants, with typically a peak of maximum ROS production around 15 min post-elicitation. A statistically significant reduction in ROS accumulation was detected in the tzf9 mutant after flg22 treatment (50 nM) (Fig. 2A). The complemented line showed ROS accumulation that is intermediate between the wild-type and tzf9 mutant plants, suggesting a partial complementation.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Phosphorylation of MPK3, MPK4, MPK6 and MPK11, leading to activation of these four MAPKs (CITATION, CITATION), is another early event elicited after recognition of PAMPs. In order to compare PAMP-induced MAPK activation, we elicited 2-week-old seedlings that were grown in liquid Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium. Activated MAPKs were visualized by immunoblot using an anti-pTEpY antibody that recognizes phosphorylated forms of MAPKs. Compared with the seedlings from the wild type and the complemented line, a reduction in MAPK activation after flg22 treatment was detected in the tzf9 mutant (Fig. 2B). Collectively, the tzf9 mutant is attenuated in PAMP-induced early signaling events. PAMP perception induces transcriptional reprogramming to mount corresponding defense responses necessary for restricting the progress of a potential pathogen. Expression of two PAMP-responsive genes that require MAPK activation for a full response (CITATION) was compared between Col-0 and tzf9 by real-time quantitative reverse transcription–PCR (qRT–PCR). The expression of FRK1 and NHL10 was significantly reduced in the tzf9 mutant (Fig. 3). This was partially restored in the complemented transgenic line—at least for the FRK1 gene. Thus, TZF9 is partially required for a full induction of defense gene expression.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Taken together, besides late responses such as PAMP-induced growth arrest, TZF9 is required for mounting a full response to several early PAMP-induced processes (ROS accumulation, MAPK activation and early defense gene expression). In order to test whether the partial insensitivity of the tzf9 mutant to PAMPs also reflects an overall weaker resistance to pathogens, Col-0, tzf9 mutant and the complemented line were spray-inoculated with virulent P. syringae pv. tomato DC3000. Leaves were collected 3 d after inoculation, surface-sterilized and the bacterial titer in the leaf intercellular spaces determined. Bacterial growth was significantly higher in tzf9 compared with Col-0 plants 3 d post-inoculation (Fig. 3B). The complemented line showed an intermediate level of bacterial susceptibility between the Col-0 and the tzf9 mutant, suggesting partial complementation. Since similar levels of bacteria were observed on Day 0, the increased bacterial titer in tzf9 plants is unlikely to be caused by enhanced initial entry through stomata. Therefore, partial insensitivity to PAMPs, leading to attenuated defense reactions, presumably led to enhanced susceptibility of the tzf9 mutant to virulent bacteria. The TZF protein family of Arabidopsis consists of 11 members, all of which were localized in cytoplasmic foci when expressed heterologously in maize mesophyll protoplasts (CITATION), with TZF1 co-localizing with markers of P-bodies (CITATION). Transient expression in Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts was performed to investigate if TZF9 localizes into P-bodies. Initial experiments were performed using the Cauliflower mosiac virus (CaMV) 35S promoter to drive the expression (data not shown), but to exclude overexpression artifacts, an Arabidopsis ubiquitin10 promoter of moderate expression strength was subsequently used. In all cases, signals for TZF9 [with GFP or monomeric red fluorescent protein (mRFP) fluorescent tags] were observed in the cytoplasm, often as prominent cytoplasmic roundish structures (Fig. 4A). When co-expressed with tdTOMATO–DCP1 or GFP–XRN4 fusion proteins, two well-established components of P-bodies (CITATION), most of the TZF9 cytoplasmic foci co-localized with these P-body markers (Fig. 4A).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Assembly–disassembly of P-bodies is dependent on mRNAs that are potentially delivered into them (CITATION). Cycloheximide (CHX) is typically used as a protein translation inhibitor in eukaryotes, but since the stalled translation traps mRNA within polysomes, mRNA availability is reduced and P-body formation limited. Hence, CHX treatment to disrupt P-body structures is hailed as a hallmark test for tracking P-body-associated proteins (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). Indeed, CHX treatment decreased the GFP–TZF9 signals within cytoplasmic foci in transfected Arabidopsis protoplasts, with most of the signals relocated into the cytoplasm and nucleus (Fig. 4B). Inhibition of transcription by actinomycin D (ActD) is another alternative to suppress mRNA accumulation and formation of P-bodies (CITATION). Similar to the CHX treatment, ActD disrupted the cytoplasmic foci of TZF9–GFP, leading to a cytoplasmic and nuclear localization (Fig. 4B). TZF1 and TZF7 have previously also been shown to accumulate in nuclei after treatment with leptomycin B (LepB), an inhibitor of nuclear export, suggesting shuttling between the nucleus and cytoplasm (CITATION, CITATION). When transfected protoplasts were incubated with LepB, TZF9–GFP cytoplasmic foci signals were abolished (Fig. 4B). However, there is no exclusive nuclear localization of TZF9–GFP, suggesting that the LepB effect is presumably indirect, i.e. prevention of nuclear export of an unknown protein target is also required for TZF9 assembly into P-bodies. Note that for the above-mentioned experiments, immunoblot analysis verified that these chemical treatments altered the TZF9–GFP localization but not the accumulation of the intact protein (Fig. 4B, lower panel). As a comparison, the effects of CHX, ActD and LepB on localization of the P-body marker DCP1 were also analyzed. CHX reduced the number of tdTOMATO–DCP1-associated P-body signals, while ActD and LepB had no apparent effects (Fig. 4C). This difference to the effects on TZF9 localization by the same chemical treatments highlights the dynamic nature of TZF9 shuttling within the cell. In particular, the different effect of ActD treatments on TZF9 vs. DCP1 redistribution suggests that there are different populations of P-bodies. A possible implication of this would be that the target mRNAs required for TZF9 assembly within P-bodies are short lived, as compared with mRNAs in the other P-bodies resistant to ActD-mediated disruption. All the above experiments indicate that TZF9 localization in P-bodies is dependent on the availability of the target mRNAs. To gain insights in the potential relationship between mRNA association and the localization of TZF9 in P-bodies, the putative RNA-binding CCCH motifs of TZF9 were deleted. In most of the transiently transformed protoplasts, the TZF9ΔCCCH2x–GFP protein no longer localized to cytoplasmic foci. However, it must also be pointed out that a few cytoplasmic foci are sporadically observed but at lower frequency (Fig. 4D). In contrast, deletion of the putative protein–protein interaction ankyrin repeat motif (TZF9Δ ANK) did not compromise the TZF9 localization in cytoplasmic foci (Fig. 4D). Western blot analysis was used to confirm the integrity of the expressed fusion proteins (Fig. 4D, lower panel), indicating that the altered TZF9ΔCCCH2x–GFP nucleocytoplasmic localization was not due to truncated or free GFP. The localization studies suggest that TZF9 is involved in post-transcriptional processes, possibly in coordination with components of P-bodies. However, the RNA binding activity and potential RNA targets of Arabidopsis TZF proteins are still unknown. To confirm RNA binding activity of TZF9, an RNA electrophoretic mobility shift assay (REMSA) was performed using recombinant TZF9–MBP-His10x and the ribohomopolymers of A, G, C and U. We purified the TZF9–MBP-His10x through two affinity steps (Ni-NTA–agarose and amylose beads) since pilot experiments showed that unknown E. coli protein contaminants from the single Ni-NTA–agarose purification step can bind poly(rU) (data not shown). Under our experimental conditions, TZF9–MBP-His10x forms RNA complexes with poly(rU) and poly(rG) but not with the other two ribohomopolymers (Fig. 5). The smeary radioactive signals presumably reflect the fact that TZF9 may bind to multiple sites on the poly(rU) or poly(rG) sequence used. Additionally, poly(rU)/poly(rG) are unlikely to be the ideal high-affinity target of TZF9, so that dissociation of the complex may occur during separation on the REMSA gels. Some degradation of the free poly(rC) was also seen with wild-type TZF9 but, most importantly, no high molecular weight smear was observed. A negative control with an equivalent volume of ‘bacterial extracts’ that were purified through the two purification steps did not show any binding to any of the ribohomopolymers. Interestingly, deletion of CCCH-type motifs compromised the binding to poly(rU) and poly(rG) (Fig. 5), further supporting the hypothesis that the CCCH motif mediates binding to RNA.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Full-length TZF9 without a stop codon was amplified by PCR using the primer combination SD-ORF-At3g55980F (5′-CACCGAAGGAGATACCATGTGCAGTGGACCAAAGAGCA) and SD-At5g58620R (5′-AGCCACGGTCTGTTCTGTCTCCAT-3′), and cloned into pENTR/D (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com) for subsequent generation of C-terminal fusions. Deletion of CCCH-type motifs and ankyrin repeats was performed by whole plasmid amplification with TurboPfu polymerase, with the full-length open reading frame (ORF) as template and the primer combination TZF9-delCCCH-R (5′-GAATTCGAGGAGCTGCGTCCTTTGTACC-3′) and TZF9-delCCCH-L (5′-GAATTCAGGACAAGGGACACAA-3′) to generate TZF9ΔCCCH, and TZF9delANK-L (5′-CCTCTCCTCAAAACCCATCTTCTTTG-3′) and TZF9delANK-R (5′-GGAGAGGCCGGTTTTTAGCGCGAGGATGAAG-3′) to generate TZF9ΔANK. The TZF9 ORF and domain-deleted variants were transferred via Gateway recombination methods into pDEST-C102-MBP-His10x (CITATION) and pUBC-Dest-GFP (CITATION) for bacterial and protoplast expression, respectively. A tzf9 mutant (N510842) was obtained from the European Arabidopsis Stock Centre (NASC), and verified using standard PCR conditions with the primers listed in Supplementary Table S1. In order to complement the phenotype of tzf9 mutant, a genomic TZF9 fragment harboring the promoter and native 3′-UTR was amplified by PCR by using the primers GenoTZF9-Fwd (5′-GGATCCATAGCAATGCTTAGTCGCTTTC-3′) and GenoTZF9-Rev (5′-GAGCTCAAGCGAAGATATAGTCTCAAACATC-3′), cloned into pCR-Blunt (Invitrogen) and subcloned into pCB203 (CITATION) via the BamHI and SacI restriction sites. The construct was introduced into tzf9 mutant plants by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation (CITATION). Growth and treatment of A. thaliana plants were performed as previously described (CITATION). Briefly, seeds of Col-0 wild type and the tzf9 mutant (NASC accession N510842) were surface sterilized and stratified at 4°C for 2 d. To determine root growth inhibition, seeds were germinated on ATS agar plates. Seedlings grown in liquid 0.5× MS medium supplemented with 0.25% sucrose and 1 mM MES were used to analyse MAPK activation and defense-related gene expression. PAMPs (flg22 and elf18) were supplemented at the indicated concentrations and the seedlings were harvested at the indicated time points. Plants grown on soil in climate chambers under short-day conditions (8 h light, 16 h darkness) were used to determine PAMP-induced ROS accumulation and for preparing protoplasts. Production of ROS was assayed as described (CITATION) using 3 mm leaf discs in 96-well plates measured at 2 min intervals (Luminoskan Ascent 2.1). Statistical significance of the differences was tested by Kruskall–Wallis test (P < 0.05). Activated MAPKs were detected by Western blot with anti-pTEpY (α-phospho-p44/42-ERK CST, http://www.cellsignal.com/) as described (CITATION) in 14-day-old liquid-grown seedlings elicited with PAMPs. For the dephosphorylation assay, protoplasts were lysed directly in the phosphatase buffer provided by the supplier (Upstate-Millipore) with 5 mM dithiothreitol (DTT) and 1× protease inhibitor mix P (Serva) freshly added. λ-Phosphatase (400 U, Upstate-Millipore) was added to 20 µl of protoplast extracts, incubated at 37°C (10 min), inactivated by boiling in Laemmli loading buffer and subjected to Western blot analysis. Two-week-old seedlings grown in 0.5× MS medium were stimulated with PAMPs and samples were collected at the indicated time points. As a negative control, seedlings without stimulation were collected in parallel at the same time points. Total RNA was extracted using the conventional Trizol method followed by DNase I treatment (Fermentas, http://www.thermoscientificbio.com/fermentas/). DNase I-treated RNA was reverse-transcribed with oligo(dT)14 and Revert Aid reverse transcriptase (Fermentas, http://www.thermoscientificbio.com/fermentas/) according to the manufacturers’ instructions. Relative expression of defense-related genes was determined with primers and FAM-labeled TaqMan probes as listed in Supplementary Table S1. The reference gene PP2A (At1g69960) was used for the normalization of the expression. Three biological replicates were performed, with replicate measurements for each time point. Significance of the differences in gene expression was tested with Student’s t-test (P < 0.05). Arabidopsis protoplasts were isolated and transformed (as described previously, CITATION) with the various versions of TZF9 cloned in pUBC-Dest-GFP (for ubiquitin10 promoter-driven expression), as well as the P-body markers tdTOMATO–DCP1 and GFP–XRN4, both in the pRTdS vector (for CaMV 35S promoter-driven expression) (CITATION). In vivo detection of TZF9–GFP, GFP–XRN4, TZF9–mRFP or tdTOMATO–DCP1 was conducted with an LSM710 confocal microscope (Carl Zeiss) using a 488 nm argon laser to excite GFP and a 561 nm argon laser to excite RFP or tdTOMATO. Images were captured and processed by using Zen 2009 software (Carl Zeiss). Protoplasts were treated with 100 ng µl−1 CHX, 100 ng µl−1 ActD and 60 nM LepB around 12 h after transformation. Alterations in subcellular localization were assessed 40 min after CHX or ActD treatments and 1 h after LepB treatment. For the BiFC assay, protoplasts were transformed with pUC-SPYNE-MPK6 or pE-SPYNE-MPK3 in combination with pUC-SPYCE-TZF9. After approximately 18 h incubation in the dark, confocal microscopy was used to visualize the YFP signals re-constituted in the event of protein–protein interactions. Spectral properties of the YFP signals were confirmed with lambda scanning, i.e. the observed signals were from YFP and not spectral bleed-through of background fluorescence. Leaves of 6-week-old Col-0 and tzf9 plants were spray-inoculated with a suspension of 1×108 cfu ml−1 of P. syringae pv. tomato DC3000. Infected leaves were harvested 3–4 h post-inoculation (day 0) and 3 d after inoculation. Bacterial growth was determined by colony counting of serial dilutions on LB plates supplemented with 75 µg ml−1 rifampicin. Full-length TZF9–MBP-His10x (i.e. with a maltose-binding protein and deca-histidine double tag) was expressed in E. coli KRX (Promega, www.promega.com), which harbors a rhamnose-inducible system for expressing proteins. The bacterial growth and induction of protein expression were performed following the manufacturer’s standard protocol. Recombinant protein was purified under native conditions. MAPK activation was performed by incubation of recombinant GST–MPK3/6 with the constitutively active MKK5 ortholog from parsley (CITATION) and re-purified with glutathione–Sepharose 4B (GE Healthcare). MAPK assay was performed by incubating active GST–MAPK3/6 and TZF9–MBP-His10x in substrate buffer (20 mM HEPES pH 7.6, 15 mM MgCl2, 5 mM EGTA, 1 mM DTT, 40 µM ATP) for 30 min. Proteins were afterwards separated by SDS–PAGE and phospho-TZF9–MBP-His10x was detected by ProQ© Diamond Phosphoprotein gel stain (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com). To test for potential RNA-binding activity, recombinant TZF9–MBP-His10x and TZF9ΔCCCH–MBP-His10x expressed in E. coli were purified by Ni-NTA–agarose (Thermo-Scientific) and amylose bead (New England Biolabs) chromatography (according to the recommended protocols; except that 20 mM maltose was required for improved elution from the amylose beads). Note that the second affinity step was crucial in removal of unspecific RNA-binding E. coli contaminants. A negative control with extracts from untransformed E. coli cells, which were also purified through the two-step affinity purification, was included. The four different ribo-homopolymers [18-mer of poly(rA), poly(rG), poly(rC) and poly(rU)] were synthesized by MWG Biotech (http://www.eurofinsgenomics.eu/). To remove synthesis contaminants or partial-length products, the ribohomopolymers were purified by denaturing PAGE (15% acrylamide/8 M urea). After electrophoresis and Serva-G staining, the RNA bands were excised, macerated into pieces and incubated overnight at 37°C in extraction buffer (10 mM Tris pH 8, 1 mM EDTA, 0.5% SDS) with gentle shaking. Acrylamide was removed by centrifugation and the eluted RNA was precipitated with isopropanol, washed with 70% (v/v) ethanol and resuspended in diethylpyrocarbonate (DEPC)-treated water. The ribohomopolymers were 5′-labeled with T4 polynucleotide kinase (Fermentas) and [γ-32P]ATP (3,000 Ci mmol−1; Hartmann Analytic, http://www.hartmann-analytic.de/) according to CITATION. The unincorporated radioactivity was removed using ‘mini quick spin oligo columns’ (Roche, http://www.roche-applied-science.com/). RNA labeling was assessed by analytic denaturing PAGE (15% acrylamide/8 M urea) and autoradiography. RNA binding and separation of unbound probes on non-denaturing PAGE were performed according to CITATION. Briefly, recombinant proteins (∼5 ng) were pre-incubated with binding buffer (10 mM Tris pH 8, 100 mM KCl, 2 mM DTT, 0.1 µg ml−1 bovine serum albumin, 10% glycerol, 5 µM ZnCl2) for 20 min at room temperature and, afterwards, approximately 0.2 nmol of 32P-labeled ribohomopolymers were added to the reaction in a final volume of 15 µl. The reaction was incubated on ice for 15 min and then separated on a native 5% non-denaturing gel (37.5 : 1 acrylamide/bisacrylamide) in 1× TAE buffer at 4°C. After electrophoresis, gels were dried and exposed to phosphor-screens and scanned using a Typhoon phosphorimager scanner (GE Healthcare, http://www.gelifesciences.com/).
