!~ABS~! Branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs) are three of the nine essential amino acids in human and animal diets and are important for numerous processes in development and growth. However, seed BCAA levels in major crops are insufficient to meet dietary requirements, making genetic improvement for increased and balanced seed BCAAs an important nutritional target. Addressing this issue requires a better understanding of the genetics underlying seed BCAA content and composition. Here, a genome-wide association study and haplotype analysis for seed BCAA traits in Arabidopsis thaliana revealed a strong association with a chromosomal interval containing two BRANCHED-CHAIN AMINO ACID TRANSFERASES, BCAT1 and BCAT2. Linkage analysis, reverse genetic approaches, and molecular complementation analysis demonstrated that allelic variation at BCAT2 is responsible for the natural variation of seed BCAAs in this interval. Complementation analysis of a bcat2 null mutant with two significantly different alleles from accessions Bayreuth-0 and Shahdara is consistent with BCAT2 contributing to natural variation in BCAA levels, glutamate recycling, and free amino acid homeostasis in seeds in an allele-dependent manner. The seed-specific phenotype of bcat2 null alleles, its strong transcription induction during late seed development, and its subcellular localization to the mitochondria are consistent with a unique, catabolic role for BCAT2 in BCAA metabolism in seeds.
!~RES~! To assess the extent of phenotypic variation for free BCAAs in dry Arabidopsis seeds, the absolute levels of 18 FAAs were quantified from three independent outgrowths (biological replicates) of an Arabidopsis diversity panel (see Supplemental Data Set 1 online; CITATION; CITATION). Nine BCAA-related traits were determined: absolute BCAA levels (Ile, Leu, and Val in nmol/mg dry seed), relative BCAA levels (each BCAA as a percentage of total FAAs; e.g., Ile/total), and the ratio of each BCAA to the sum of all three BCAAs (e.g., Ile/BCAAs). Val was the most abundant of the three BCAAs, with Val/BCAAs averaging 53.6%, while Ile/BCAAs and Leu/BCAAs averaged 22 and 24.4%, respectively (Table 1). The relationship between phenotypic values of the nine traits was evaluated by Spearman’s rank correlation, and strong positive correlations were identified between all three BCAA absolute traits and between all three relative level traits (see Supplemental Table 1 online). By contrast, a weak positive correlation between Ile/BCAAs and Leu/BCAAs and strong negative correlations between Val/BCAAs and Leu/BCAAs and Ile/BCAAs were identified (see Supplemental Table 1 online). Broad-sense heritabilities ranged from 0.55 to 0.82 for all traits (Table 1), suggesting that phenotypic variation is controlled primarily by QTLs. To dissect the genetic basis of natural variation for BCAA levels in dry Arabidopsis seeds, GWAS was performed using a 360-ecotype Arabidopsis diversity panel previously genotyped with a 250K single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) chip (CITATION; CITATION). Because of extremely delayed flowering of some accessions, seeds could be harvested and phenotyped from only 313 of the 360 accessions (see Supplemental Data Set 1 online). Removal of low-quality SNPs and those with minor allele frequency (MAF) < 0.05 yielded a 170,344-SNP data set for association analysis using a unified mixed linear model that controls for population structure and familial relatedness (CITATION). Significant SNP–trait associations at a 5% false discovery rate (FDR) were found for five traits: Ile, Ile/total, Ile/BCAAs, Leu/total, and Val/BCAAs (Figure 2; see Supplemental Data Set 2 online), with all showing a strong association signal on chromosome 1 (Figure 2). Of these five traits, the four Ile- and Leu-related traits demonstrated high positive correlations but had negative correlations to Val/BCAAs (see Supplemental Table 1 online). [[FIGURE]] The peak SNP locus on chromosome 1 (SNP5373; 3,292,297 bp; P values ranged between 3.1 × 10−12 and 4.9 × 10−7) for all five traits was located within a gene annotated as EARLY-RESPONSIVE TO DEHYDRATION STRESS PROTEIN4 (ERD4; At1G10090; see Supplemental Data Set 2 online). This peak SNP locus, SNP5373, explained 19.2, 16.2, 15.2, 15, and 12.3% of the total phenotypic variance for Ile/total, Ile/BCAAs, Leu/BCAAs, Ile, and Val/BCAA, respectively. Notably, this SNP is located 2133 bp from the stop codon of BCAT2 (At1G10070) and 5460 bp from the stop codon of BCAT1 (At1G10060), which encode biosynthetic and catabolic BCAA enzymes. Depending on the trait, a total of 1 to 43 SNPs in the vicinity of SNP5373 had significant associations (see Supplemental Data Set 2 online). Taken together, these SNPs span a 119-kb interval that contains 20 open reading frames (see Supplemental Data Set 2 online). In addition to the GWAS signal on chromosome 1, five chromosomal regions with significant SNP–trait associations were identified (Figure 2; see Supplemental Data Set 2 online). Ile/BCAAs had a significant association with SNP76015 on chromosome 2 (16,780,007 bp) within At2G40170, annotated as encoding a stress-induced Late Embryogenesis Abundant6 protein, GEA6. Ile and Ile/total had two associations on chromosome 3, SNP114591 and SNP114596, at 18,151,275 and 18,149,257 bp, respectively, in adjacent genes annotated as encoding a glycoside hydrolase family 28 protein (At3G48950) and a large subunit ribosomal protein, L13e (At3G48960). Chromosome 4 had four significant SNP associations: Ile/total and Ile/BCAAs with SNP149802 (11,776,120 bp) within a gene annotated as coding for an F-box/RNI-like superfamily protein (At4G22280), Ile/BCAAs with SNP146708 and SNP146715 (10,386,003 and 10,388,712 bp, respectively) within and near a gene for a MADS box transcription factor (At4G18960), and Ile/total with SNP139249 (7,535,127 bp) located within a gene of unknown function (At4G12840). To further resolve the complex signals from the chromosome 1 region containing the most statistically significant SNPs, a multiple-locus mixed model (MLMM) approach that uses stepwise model selection (CITATION) was implemented on the five traits in the vicinity of SNP5373. In this analysis, all 594 SNPs with a MAF ≥ 0.05 in the ±100-kb region surrounding SNP5373 on chromosome 1 were considered for inclusion into the final model. For each trait, the optimal model contained only SNP5373 (the peak SNP locus identified in the initial GWAS) and explained 7 to 16% of the phenotypic variation for the five traits (see Supplemental Table 2 online). To validate these results, GWAS was reconducted using a unified mixed model that included SNP5373 as a covariate. With this conditional GWAS, no significant associations were detected for any of these traits, including the five additional genomic regions that were previously identified on chromosomes 2, 3, and 4 (Figure 2). Estimates of linkage disequilibrium (LD) between SNP5373 and other SNPs in the surrounding ±100-kb region indicated that patterns of long-range LD were present (see Supplemental Figure 1 online) and may account for the multiple significant SNPs that were identified for this region. Taken together, these results indicate that SNP5373 is likely in LD with one or more causative polymorphisms that are responsible for the natural variation of BCAA-related traits in dry Arabidopsis seeds. It has been shown previously (CITATION) that peak GWAS signals like SNP5373 are not always located within a causal gene but can be in LD with other causal polymorphisms nearby. In an attempt to increase our resolution and further characterize contributing polymorphisms in this region, haplotype analysis was performed. In contrast to GWAS, which considers individual SNPs in isolation, haplotype analysis allows one to consider multiple SNPs that segregate together due to LD and as a group may be most significant for a trait. Haplotype analysis was conducted on a 23.5-kb chromosome 1 region that includes ERD4, BCAT1, and BCAT2 (3,274,080–3,297,645; see Supplemental Data Set 2 online) and encompasses all significant SNPs common to the four BCAA traits with multiple SNP associations. Fourteen haploblocks were identified across this region (Figure 3B; see Supplemental Figure 2 online; see Supplemental Table 3 online), including the 6,148-bp haploblock 10, which contains the peak SNP from GWAS, SNP5373, and encompasses portions of ERD4 and BCAT2. When unified mixed linear models were fitted for each haploblock, haploblocks 8 and 9 were found to be the most significant of the seven haploblocks associated with all five BCAA traits (see Supplemental Table 3 online; see Supplemental Figure 2 online). By contrast, haploblock 10 was associated with only three traits and in each case was less significant than haploblocks 8 and 9. [[FIGURE]] Haploblock 8 (321 bp) contains three haplotypes and is delineated by two SNPs located in the 3′ UTR of BCAT1 and the promoter region of BCAT2. Haploblock 9 (708 bp) also contains three haplotypes delineated by two SNPs located in the promoter and first exon of BCAT2 (Figure 3B; see Supplemental Figure 2 online; see Supplemental Table 3 online). The most significantly different haplotype pairs for haploblocks 8 and 9 were CA versus TT and GA versus AG, respectively (the combined haplotype frequencies of CA-GA and TT-AG were 72 and 12.3% respectively). The CA-GA haplotype pairs represent the high-level haplotypes for Ile, Ile/total, Leu/total, and Ile/BCAAs and the low-level haplotype for Val/BCAAs (Figure 3C; see Supplemental Table 3 online; see Supplemental Figure 2 online). The opposite effect of this haplotype pair on these BCAA traits (Figure 3C) is consistent with their divergent Pearson correlations (see Supplemental Table 1 online). Taken together, these results strongly suggest that either BCAT1 or BCAT2, and not ERD4, is the causative gene, but the LD structure of this genomic region necessitates molecular dissection with mutagenesis and transgenic methods to define which BCAT is causal. To independently confirm the results predicted from GWAS and haplotype analyses, a biparental QTL analysis was performed using the Bayreuth-0 (Bay) × Shahdara (Sha) recombinant inbred population (CITATION). The Bay and Sha parents contain the haploblocks 8 and 9 low and high most significant haplotype pairs predicted by GWAS, respectively, and should segregate accordingly in the population for Ile-related traits (see Supplemental Figure 2 online; see Supplemental Table 3 online). Seed BCAA levels of 158 recombinant inbred lines of a Bay × Sha mapping population (CITATION) were quantified by LC-MS/MS, and composite interval mapping was performed for all nine BCAA traits using plant breeding and biology QTL analysis (PLABQTL) version 1.2 (CITATION). In total, 12 chromosome regions with QTLs were identified, three of which contained known BCAA catabolism genes in their intervals (see Supplemental Data Set 3 online). No pairwise epistatic interactions were detected. Confidence intervals for QTLs that included the chromosomal 1 region defined by GWAS were identified for all five BCAA traits plus one additional trait, Val/total (Table 2). These composite interval mapping results indicate that, consistent with predictions from GWAS and haplotype analysis, Sha is the higher parent for Ile-related traits and Bay the higher parent for Val/BCAAs. These chromosome 1 QTLs explain 13.2 to 25.5% of the total variation and represent one of two major QTLs in the Bay × Sha mapping population that are shared with all five traits detected in GWAS (Table 2; see Supplemental Data Set 3 online). A transgenic strategy was used to definitively test whether BCAT1 or BCAT2 is the causal gene underlying natural variation for BCAA levels in dry Arabidopsis seeds. Null, homozygous T-DNA insertion lines for BCAT1, BCAT2, and ERD4 (bcat1-1, bcat1-2, bcat2-1, bcat2-2, and erd4) were isolated and characterized from the SALK and Versailles T-DNA collections (see Supplemental Figures 3 and 4 online). RT-PCR using primers designed to span the full BCAT1, BCAT2, and ERD4 transcripts confirmed that all four mutant alleles lack transcripts derived from their respective genes in flowers and seeds (see Supplemental Figures 3C and 4B online). Amino acid quantification of dry seeds from bcat1, bcat2, and erd4 alleles showed that only the two bcat2 alleles had a consistent and significant change in seed BCAA profiles compared with the wild type (Figure 4; Supplemental Data Set 4 online). The Ile, Leu, and Val increases were 3.7-, 5.4-, and 2.6-fold relative to the wild type (Columbia [Col-0]) in bcat2-1 and 5.2-, 7.7-, and 3.8-fold that of the wild type Wassilewskija-4 (WS-4) in bcat2-2. By contrast, consistent and significant effects in BCAA profiles were not observed in leaves from 4-week-old mutant plants (Figure 4; see Supplemental Data Set 4 online). These results indicate that mutant alleles of bcat2, but not bcat1, specifically influence seed BCAA levels and suggest that BCAT2 is the causal locus for the natural variation of BCAAs in dry seeds. Accumulation of BCAAs in bcat2 null mutants suggests that BCAT2 is a catabolic rather than a biosynthetic enzyme, as suggested previously (CITATION), as BCAAs would be expected to decrease from disruption of a biosynthetic enzyme. [[FIGURE]] In order to directly test whether polymorphisms associated with BCAT2 are the cause of natural variation for seed BCAA levels, molecular complementation of bcat2-1 was performed with the Bay and Sha alleles, lines that harbor the two most significantly different allele pairs (high and low trait levels) of haploblocks 8 and 9. The null bcat2-1 background was transformed with 3.81-kb BCAT2 genomic DNA fragments from Bay and Sha that contain 1.5 kb of promoter, the BCAT2 coding region, and 230 bp downstream of the BCAT2 stop codon. The two alleles differ by 45 polymorphisms, including 10 insertions/deletions ranging in size from 1 to 19 bp. Nine of the 35 SNP polymorphisms were scored in the association panel with the 250K SNP chip (CITATION; CITATION), and seven were found to be significant for at least one BCAA trait. Five of these seven SNPs are located in the BCAT2 promoter, one in the targeting sequence of the BCAT2 coding region and one in the 3′ UTR (see Supplemental Table 4 online). Homozygous transgenic (T2) lines segregating for a single insertion locus were isolated, and the effect of each allele on seed amino acid phenotypes was determined by LC-MS/MS. Complementation with either transgenic allele caused a substantial reduction in the elevated BCAA levels of bcat2-1, with the average of 10 independent transgenic events containing the Sha allele [bcat2-1/BCAT2-(Sha)] being statistically indistinguishable from the average of 11 Col-0 plants (the bcat2-1 background Col-0 and Sha have identical haplotypes for haploblocks 8 and 9; Figure 5). By contrast, the average of nine independent transgenic events containing the Bay allele [bcat2-1/BCAT2-(Bay)] resulted in significantly lower absolute levels of Ile and Val and significantly lower Ile/total and Ile/BCAAs ratios compared with Col-0. BCAA ratios of bcat2-1/BCAT2-(Sha) were indistinguishable from Col-0 with the exception of Ile/BCAAs, which was slightly lower (Figure 5; see Supplemental Table 5 online). These molecular complementation results confirm that the Bay BCAT2 allele results in a significantly different seed BCAA profile (see Supplemental Table 5 online) that is consistent with results from the GWAS and QTL analyses. Interestingly, the bcat2-1/BCAT2-(Bay) FAA profile also showed significant reductions in Arg, Glu, Gly, Ser, and Met levels compared with Col-0 (see Supplemental Table 5 online). [[FIGURE]] To address whether BCAA natural variation is driven by differences in expression levels, BCAT1 and BCAT2 transcripts were quantified at different stages of seed development in Bay and Sha using quantitative RT-PCR. In both accessions, BCAT2 transcript levels showed a rapid increase during maturation and a slight decrease during desiccation, while BCAT1 transcript levels showed a substantial decrease during late maturation and desiccation to nondetectable levels in dry seeds (Figure 6). That BCAT2 transcript levels showed only minor variation between the two accessions suggests that expression differences make, at best, modest contributions to the observed phenotypic differences. BCAT1 transcript levels in Bay were higher than those in Sha at 12 d after flowering (DAF) but lower at all other time points, substantially so at 18 and 20 DAF. The Arabidopsis eFP browser (CITATION; http://bbc.botany.utoronto.ca/efp/cgi-bin/efpWeb.cgi) indicates that BCAT1 is expressed only in the seed coat (see Supplemental Figure 5 online); thus, the absence of BCAT1 transcript in dry seeds is consistent with seed coat death during the later stages of desiccation. The expression profiles of BCAT1 and BCAT2 are consistent with molecular complementation studies (Figure 5), demonstrating that BCAT2 is the causal gene driving seed BCAA natural variation. [[FIGURE]] The accumulation of BCAAs in BCAT2 null mutants implied that the BCAT2 enzyme functions as a catabolic rather than a biosynthetic enzyme, as was reported previously (CITATION). Catabolic BCATs are generally located in the mitochondrion (CITATION), but BCAT2 had been reported to be plastidic, based on transient expression in tobacco leaves of the first 126 of the 388 amino acids of the BCAT2 protein (CITATION). To clarify its subcellular localization, the C terminus of the full-length BCAT2 protein was tagged with yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) and stably transformed into Arabidopsis plants expressing the cyan fluorescent protein (CFP) mitochondrial marker mt-ck CS16262 (CITATION). A C-terminal YFP fusion was used to avoid disrupting any potential N-terminal targeting sequences, as reported for other BCAT family members (CITATION; CITATION, CITATION). Fluorescence microscopy of stably transformed Arabidopsis leaves indicated that the 35S:BCAT2-YFP signal colocalized with the mitochondrial marker (Figure 7), with no signal detectable in chloroplasts. These results support in silico targeting predictions for BCAT2 by TargetP (CITATION) and iPSORT (CITATION) as well as observations that the BCAT2 transcript is coexpressed with Leu catabolic enzymes, which are also located in the mitochondrion (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION). The observations are also consistent with the mitochondrial localization of cultivated tomato BCAT2, the closest tomato homolog to Arabidopsis BCAT2 (CITATION). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! All Arabidopsis thaliana genotypes were grown at 18 to 21°C (day/night) under long-day conditions (16 h of light/8 h of dark). Dry seeds were collected at the end of the desiccation period and stored in a desiccator at room temperature for at least 6 weeks prior to analysis to ensure full desiccation. The 360-member Arabidopsis diversity panel (CITATION) was grown as three independent replicates under the conditions above. Seeds from a total of 313 accessions with reasonable flowering times were used for association analysis. For the developing seed analysis, flowers of Bay and Sha were marked, and at specific times (12 ± 1, 15 ± 1, 18 ± 1, and 20 ± 1 DAF) seeds were collected and stored at −80°C. All accessions in this panel were genotyped with the 250K SNP data set version 3.06, which is available for download at https://cynin.gmi.oeaw.ac.at/home/resources/atpolydb/. The T-DNA mutant lines FLAG_093BO2 (bcat1-2) and FLAG_353G11 (bcat2-2) were obtained from the Versailles collection (Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique). The T-DNA mutant lines SALK_13630 (bcat1-1), SALK_037854 (bcat2-1), and SALK_131951C (erd4) were obtained from the ABRC stock center. bcat2-1, bcat1-1, and erd4 are in the Col-0 background, and bcat1-2 and bcat2-2 are in the WS-4 background. Homozygous mutant lines were validated by genomic PCR using gene-specific primers in combination with the T-DNA left border primer. Lack of transcripts from BCAT1, BCAT2, and ERD4 was validated by RT-PCR using flower and seed RNA from the respective mutants and primers designed to amplify the full-length transcript. Primers used for this study are summarized in Supplemental Table 6 online. A 3.81-kb region of genomic DNA containing the BCAT2 gene (chromosome 1; 3,286,586 to 3,290,396) with 1500 bp prior to the start codon and 230 bp after the stop codon were amplified (primers are summarized in Supplemental Table 6 online) from the Bay and Sha accessions and cloned into the pMDC99 vector using the Gateway recombination system (Invitrogen). Homozygous bcat2-1 plants were transformed with either the Bay or Sha allele by Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated gene transfer using the floral dip method (CITATION). Homozygous lines segregating for a single insertion were isolated by selection on the appropriate antibiotics (9 independent lines for the Bay genomic allele and 10 for the Sha allele). Total RNA was isolated from developing and dry seeds using the hot-borate method (CITATION) and from flowers using RNA-easy (Qiagen). DNase treatment was conducted using TURBO DNA-free DNase (Ambion). First-strand cDNA was synthesized from 1 µg of total RNA with SuperScript II H− reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen) and oligo(dT) primer. Transcript levels were determined by quantitative PCR using SYBR green real-time PCR mix (Applied Biosystems), with ACTIN2 (At3G18780) mRNA as an internal control (for primers, see Supplemental Table 6 online). BCAT2 mRNA was amplified (primers are summarized in Supplemental Table 6 online) from cDNA, cloned into the pEarleyGate101 vector (CITATION), and mobilized into a vector driven by the 35S promoter that allowed in-frame fusion of the BCAT2 coding sequence to the YFP coding region. This vector was used to transform plants containing a CFP mitochondrial marker (CS16262; CITATION) by A. tumefaciens–mediated gene transfer using the floral dip method (CITATION). Localization of expressed proteins was visualized in T1 transformants with a 100XUPLSAPO oil objective NAL4 using an Olympus Fluview FV1000 confocal laser-scanning microscope. YFP was excited by a 515-nm argon laser line, and the emission range was set to 530 to 580 nm; CFP was excited by a 458-nm argon laser line, and the emission range was set to 475 to 500 nm. Chlorophyll autoflorescence was excited by a 515-nm argon laser line, with the emission range set to 655 to 755 nm. After background subtraction to remove camera noise, contrast enhancement was performed to increase signal intensity and remove low-level background. For colocalization experiments, YFP signals were false colored magenta, CFP signals were false colored cyan, and chlorophyll signals were false colored red. FAA extraction for LC-MS/MS analysis was performed by modifying a previously described method (CITATION). Briefly, ∼5-mg Arabidopsis seed samples were homogenized in 400-μL heavy standards buffer (see components below) by vigorous shaking with two 3-mm glass beads for 5 min on an S2200 paint shaker (Hero Products Group) and then incubated for 10 min at 90°C. After incubation, extracts were centrifuged at 3700g and the supernatants were filtered by centrifugation at 3000g through a 0.45-μm low binding hydrophilic polytetrafluoroethylene (Millipore). Filtered samples were then diluted twofold with the heavy standards buffer and analyzed by LC-MS/MS. The LC-MS/MS method was slightly modified from CITATION to include selected ion pairs for the additional heavy amino acid standards. The method was composed of three electrospray photoionization (positive ion mode) functions (0 to 1.6, 1.61 to 2.3, and 2.31 to 5.6 min) to allow sufficient dwell time for each analyte. Multiple reaction monitoring transitions, optimized source cone voltages, collision cell voltages, gradient, functions, and selected ion monitoring pair details are described in detail in Supplemental Table 7 online. Data were acquired and processed with MassLynx 4.0. The buffer contained 19 µM DTT with 8 μM Ala-D4 and Asp-D4, 12 μM Gly-D2-15N1, and 4 µM each Ala-D4, Asp-D3, Gln-U-13C5, Glu-D3, Gly-D2-15N1, Leu-D10, Lys-15N1, His-D3, Met-D3, Phe-D8, Ser-D3, Trp-D5, and Val-D8. All the heavy amino acids were purchased from Cambridge Isotope Laboratories and C/D/N Isotope and will be described as AA* hereafter; normal isotope amino acids will be described as AA. Endogenous concentrations of the 18 AAs were calculated according to standard curves and the peak area ratios of each amino acid to its respective heavy internal standard (performed in MassLynx 4.0). Hence, a series of working standards with concentrations ranging from 0 to 100 μM (with the exception of 300 μM in the case of Gly) of 18 AAs were prepared with the AA* heavy standard buffer (all 18 standard AAs were purchase from Sigma-Aldrich). Calibration curves for each amino acid were generated by plotting amino acid concentrations on the x axis versus responses (AA peak area or peak area ratio of AA to AA*) on the y axis using regression analysis. Measurement of triplicates demonstrated a high accuracy of ∼15% relative sd (sd × 100/repeats average measurement), high repeatability (∼90–95% repeatability for FAAs across the measured Arabidopsis association panel), and a wide linear range (1 to 1000 ng). This high accuracy of the method allowed only a single measurement per each accession per growth period for GWAS, although five replicates were routinely performed for the characterization of mutants. Amino acid levels were quantified, different relative levels were calculated as described above, and raw values were used as quantitative values in QTL analysis. PLABQTL was used for composite interval mapping (CITATION). Permutation analysis (1000) was performed to calculate the critical log of the odds score (α = 0.05) of 3.11. Genotypic data used for the analysis were obtained from CITATION; http://dbsgap.versailles.inra.fr/vnat/Documentation/33/DOC.html). Cofactors used for calculations were automatically chosen by the PLABQTL program. For each of the nine BCAA traits, samples below detection were assigned uniform random variables ranging from 0 to min, where min is the minimum detection level of a given trait (CITATION). Studentized deleted residuals (CITATION) were then calculated from a mixed model fitted in SAS version 9.2 (SAS Institute) that included replicate and accessions as random effects. Accessions with extreme Studentized deleted residuals were designated as outliers and removed from the analysis. Upon removal of the outliers, the procedure of CITATION was implemented to find the optimal transformation of each trait, thus ensuring that the model assumptions of normally distributed error terms and constant variance were not being violated. Finally, a best linear unbiased predictor (BLUP) for each accession was predicted for all transformed traits using mixed models fitted across all outgrowths. These BLUPs were used as the phenotype in all subsequent analyses. The variance component estimates from each fitted model was used to estimate the broad-sense heritability of each trait (CITATION; CITATION). se values of heritability estimates were approximated using the delta method (CITATION). A GWAS of the nine BCAA traits was then conducted using 170,344 SNPs with MAF ≥ 0.05 among 313 accessions from the diversity panel with adequate flowering time to allow timely seed production. At each of these SNPs, a unified mixed linear model (CITATION) was fitted for each trait in the Genome Association and Prediction Integrated Tool R package (CITATION). This model included principal components as fixed effects to account for population structure (CITATION) and a kinship matrix (CITATION) to account for familial relatedness among the accessions. The principal components and kinship matrix were both calculated from 214,052 SNPs with MAF ≥ 0.10 among the 1307 accessions genotyped with the 250K SNP data set version 3.06. For each BCAA trait, the Bayesian information criterion (CITATION) was used to determine the optimal number of principal components to include in the MLM. The efficient population parameters previously determined (CITATION) were used to eliminate the need of reestimating the variance components at each SNP. Finally, we used the procedure to control for the FDR at 5% (CITATION). In addition to the GWAS, we implemented the MLMM (CITATION) to identify the key SNPs responsible for signals at major-effect loci. To account for multiple markers associated with a trait, the MLMM approach conducts stepwise model selection within a mixed-model framework. In contrast to the population parameters previously determined, the MLMM approach reestimates the variance components at each step of model fitting. All 170,344 SNPs from the 250K chip with MAF ≥ 0.05 among the 313 accessions were considered for inclusion in the final model. The extended Bayesian information criterion (CITATION) was used to determine the number of SNPs in this optimal model. To assess the correlation between the BCAA traits in their original units of measurement, the BLUPs of each trait were back transformed. The Spearman’s rank correlation coefficient was then used to estimate the correlation between each pair of traits. The statistical significance of each correlation was assessed by conducting a Student’s t test. LD was investigated using previously described methods. Briefly, the squared allele frequency correlation (r2) between pairs of SNPs was used to quantify LD in a given genomic region (CITATION) . All SNPs with MAF ≥ 0.05 were considered for this analysis. For the 23.5-kb region surrounding BCAT1 and BCAT2, haploblocks were created using the confidence interval method in Haploview version 4.2 (CITATION). The associations between haploblocks and BCAA content were then analyzed by fitting the unified MLM (CITATION) in the MIXED procedure available in SAS version 9.3 (SAS Institute). For this analysis, the same principal components and kinship matrix used in our GWAS were used to account for population structure and familial relatedness. Within each haploblock, the LSMEANS statement was used to compare BCAA levels at each haplotype. The Tukey–Kramer procedure (CITATION) was used to adjust for the multiple testing problem at α = 0.05. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: BCAT2, At1G10070; BCAT1, At1G10060; ERD4, At1G10090. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Pairwise LD r2 Estimates of SNP5373 with SNPs across a 200-kb Chromosomal Interval Centered on SNP5373 and Plotted against Chromosomal Position. Supplemental Figure 2. Haplotype Analysis of Chromosome 1, 3,274,080 to 3,297,645. Supplemental Figure 3. BCAT1 and BCAT2 Genomic Structures and Transcript Levels in Seeds and Flowers of bcat1 and bcat2 Mutants. Supplemental Figure 4. ERD4 Genomic Structure and Transcripts in erd4. Supplemental Figure 5. Expression in Absolute Levels for BCAT1 and BCAT2 as Reported at the Arabidopsis eFP Browser. Supplemental Table 1. Spearman’s Correlation Analysis of BCAA Traits across the Arabidopsis Diversity Panel. Supplemental Table 2. Summary of MLMM Analysis for the Five BCAA Traits Using All SNPs within ±100 kb of the SNP5373 Genomic Region. Supplemental Table 3. Haploview-Generated Haplotypes with Their Respective Association P Values and Significantly Different Haplotypes That Were Found across All Five Traits. Supplemental Table 4. Summary of the Polymorphisms between the Two Alleles from Bay and Sha That Were Used for the bcat2-1 Complementation, as Determined by Sanger Sequence. Supplemental Table 5. FAA Profile of bcat2-1 Complementation with the Two Significantly Different Alleles from Bay and Sha. Supplemental Table 6. List of the Primers Used for This Study. Supplemental Table 7. Details of LC-MS/MS Gradient and Functions. Supplemental Data Set 1. Arabidopsis Accessions Used in This Study. Supplemental Data Set 2. GWAS Results Summary of all SNPs with Significant Associations at 5% FDR for All the BCAA Traits. Supplemental Data Set 3. QTL Analysis of the Bay × Sha Mapping Population. Supplemental Data Set 4. Seed and Leaf FAA Profiles of bcat1-1, bcat1-2, bcat2-1, bcat2-2, erad4, and the Wild Type (Col-0).
