!~ABS~! Anisotropic plant cell growth depends on the coordination between the orientation of cortical microtubules and the orientation of nascent cellulose microfibrils. CELLULOSE SYNTHASE INTERACTIVE1 (CSI1) is a key scaffold protein that guides primary cellulose synthase complexes (CSCs) along cortical microtubules during cellulose biosynthesis. Here, we investigated the function of the CSI1-like protein, CSI3, in Arabidopsis thaliana. Similar to CSI1, CSI3 associates with primary CSCs in vitro, colocalizes with CSCs in vivo, and exhibits the same plasma membrane localization and bidirectional motility as CSI1. However, ProCSI1:GFP-CSI3 cannot complement the anisotropic cell growth defect in csi1 mutants, suggesting that CSI3 is not functionally equivalent to CSI1. Also, the colocalization ratio between CSI1 and CSI3 is low, which may suggest heterogeneity within the CSC population. csi1 csi3 double mutants showed an enhanced cell expansion defect as well as an additive reduction of CSC velocities, and CSI3 dynamics are dependent on CSI1 function. We propose that CSI3 is an important regulator of plant cellulose biosynthesis and plant anisotropic cell growth that modulates the velocity of CSCs in both a microtubule-dependent and microtubule-independent manner.
!~RES~! The Arabidopsis genome contains two CSI1 homologs, referred to as CSI2 and CSI3 (CITATION). CSI1 shares 61 and 66% amino acid similarity with CSI2 and CSI3, respectively. CSI2 and CSI3 each have at least six predicted armadillo repeats and a single C2 domain (see Supplemental Figure 1A online). Transcriptional analysis obtained from Genevestigator indicates that CSI3, like CSI1, is widely expressed in many tissues, whereas CSI2 expression is limited to male reproductive tissues, including the stamen and pollen (see Supplemental Figure 1B online). To obtain detailed expression profiles of CSI2 and CSI3, a 3-kb promoter of CSI2 or CSI3 was fused to the β-glucuronidase (GUS) gene, and a histochemical analysis of GUS activity was performed. ProCSI3:GUS expression was detected in many of the same tissues as CSI1, including dark-grown hypocotyls, stamen, pollen, developing siliques, and roots (see Supplemental Figure 2 online). However, the expression of CSI3 was not identical to that of CSI1. In rosette leaves, CSI3 was expressed in the vasculature and in the trichomes, whereas CSI1 was not expressed in these tissues (CITATION). In addition, the expression of CSI3 was more restricted in meristematic tissue of the shoot and root. GUS activity for ProCSI2:GUS was not detected in any of the tissues examined, including rosette leaves, 10-d-old light-grown whole seedlings, 4-d-old dark-grown seedlings, flowers, siliques, stamen, and pollen. This evidence suggests that CSI2 is a pseudogene or that the expression of CSI2 is below the detection limit of the histochemical assay. To investigate the biological function of CSI3, we analyzed T-DNA insertion lines of CSI3. csi3-1 was determined to be a null allele, since a T-DNA was inserted in its third exon and no CSI3 mRNA was detected by RT-PCR (see Supplemental Figure 3 online). Unlike csi1 mutants, csi3-1 had no visible defects in expansion. Dark-grown hypocotyls, light-grown seedlings, and mature plants of csi3-1 were indistinguishable from the wild type. To test for genetic interaction between CSI1 and CSI3, a csi1 csi3 double mutant line was generated by crossing csi1-3 and csi3-1. csi1 csi3 etiolated hypocotyls displayed severe cell swelling and growth retardation compared with the single mutant parental lines (Figure 1). Dark-grown hypocotyls of csi1csi3 were ∼30% shorter than csi1 (Figures 1A and 1B), indicating that CSI1 and CSI3 synergistically regulate hypocotyl elongation. The number of epidermal cells in hypocotyls of csi1 csi3 did not differ significantly from that of the csi1 mutant. More importantly, csi1 csi3 exacerbated the anisotropic growth defect of csi1 hypocotyls, as illustrated by an ∼15% increase in cell diameter (see Supplemental Figure 4A online; Figure 1C). The reduced hypocotyl length and increased hypocotyl diameter of csi1 csi3 mutants indicate that CSI3 is a regulator of anisotropic growth. [[FIGURE]] To investigate whether CSI3 has a role in the guidance of CSCs along cortical microtubules, we compared the association of CSCs with microtubules in wild-type, csi1, csi3, and csi1 csi3 lines. Using a transgenic line coexpressing the CSC marker, YFP-CESA6, and the microtubule marker mCherry-TUBULIN5 (TUA5), CSCs were visualized moving through the plasma membrane along linear tracks provided by the underlying microtubules in wild-type, dark-grown hypocotyls (CITATION) (Figure 2A). Quantification of the association between CSCs and microtubules revealed that YFP-CESA6 colocalized with microtubules extensively in the wild-type line (CITATION) (Table 1). The coalignment of YFP-CESA6 and microtubules was disrupted in the csi1 mutants (CITATION) (Figure 2B). Unlike csi1, csi3-1 did not affect the colocalization ratio of CSCs with microtubules (Figures 2A and 2C, Table 1). Moreover, the colocalization ratio of CSCs with microtubules in csi1 csi3 was not significantly different from that of csi1 (Figures 2B and 2D, Table 1), suggesting that unlike CSI1, CSI3 is not crucial for the coalignment of CSCs and microtubules. [[FIGURE]] To test whether CSI3 has a role in cellulose biosynthesis, we examined the velocity of YFP-CESA6–labeled CSCs in csi3. Similar to in the wild-type background, time-averaged projections of 61 frames from a 2-min time series in csi3 displayed linear trajectories along microtubules (Figures 2A and 2C). The velocity of CSCs was quantified by measuring the slopes of linear traces in kymographs (CITATION). The velocity of YFP-CESA6 in csi3 was not significantly different from that of control cells (Figure 2E). By contrast, the velocity of YFP-CESA6 in csi1 and csi1 csi3 mutants was reduced (Figures 2B and 2D). The mean velocity of YFP-CESA6 in csi1 was 223 ± 96 nm/min (n = 1537) compared with 283 ± 137 nm/min (n = 902) in control seedlings. Loss of both CSI1 and CSI3 further reduced the velocity of CSCs to 121 ± 80 nm/min in csi1csi3, a reduction of ∼45% from the average velocity in csi1 mutants, suggesting that CSI3 is required for maintaining the velocity of CSCs in csi1 mutants. Crystalline cellulose analysis using the Updegraff method suggested that the cellulose content in etiolated hypocotyls of csi1 csi3 was further reduced than in csi1 (see Supplemental Figure 4B online). These observations are consistent with the enhanced anisotropic growth defects in csi1 csi3 seedlings. To examine the subcellular localization of CSI3, we created an N-terminal green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion construct using full-length cDNA of CSI3 driven by a 3-kb native promoter of CSI3 (see Supplemental Figure 5A online). To test the reliability of this variant, the resulting ProCSI3:GFP-CSI3 construct was transformed into the csi1 csi3 double mutant. Since csi3 lacked a measureable phenotype, complementation analysis was performed on the double mutant. Expression of GFP-CSI3 in dark-grown seedlings csi1 csi3 complemented the csi3 mutation and resulted in seedlings with a csi1 morphology (see Supplemental Figures 5B to 5D online), indicating that GFP-CSI3 fusion proteins are functional in plants. Similar to GFP-CSI1, GFP-CSI3 was detected as distinct particles at the plasma membrane of epidermal cells of dark-grown hypocotyls and was not detected at intracellular Golgi-associated compartments (see Supplemental Figure 5E online). To analyze the relationship between CSI1 and CSI3, we crossed a GFP-CSI3 line with red fluorescent protein (RFP)-CSI1 (CITATION) and observed epidermal cells of 3-d-old dark-grown hypocotyls via two-channel confocal imaging. RFP-CSI1 and GFP-CSI3 particles moved along linear tracks, as shown by time-averaged projections of 61 frames from a 5-min time series of images (Figure 3A; see Supplemental Movie 1 online). The linear tracks traveled by GFP-CSI3 coincided with those of RFP-CSI1, as shown by the merged image (Figure 3A). Both GFP-CSI1 and GFP-CSI3 particles traveled bidirectionally as shown by cross-hatching traces in the kymographs (Figure 3B). The average velocity of GFP-CSI3 and RFP-CSI1 particles was similar to that of GFP-CSI3 particles traveling at 374 ± 141 nm/min (range 50 to 550, n = 554) and RFP-CSI1 traveling at 377 ± 114 nm/min (range 50 to 600, n = 633) in the same cells (Figure 3C). [[FIGURE]] RFP-CSI1 and GFP-CSI3 particles partially overlapped at the plasma membrane (Figure 3D). In a single optical section, 43% ± 3% of GFP-CSI3 particles (six cells from six individual seedlings; Table 2) were colocalized with RFP-CSI1, which was not significantly higher than the random colocalization (38% ± 2%, P value of 0.074). Similarly, 52% ± 3% of RFP-CSI1 particles (six cells from six individual seedlings; Table 2) were colocalized with GFP-CSI3, which was just slightly higher than the random colocalization (39% ± 2%, P value 0.003). These results suggest that the colocalization of RFP-CSI1 and GFP-CSI3 is not widespread at the plasma membrane. Given that RFP-CSI1 and GFP-CSI3 each travel bidirectionally with similar constant velocities along overlapping tracks, the limited colocalization between CSI1 and CSI3 could result either from RFP-CSI1 and GFP-CSI3 particles traveling in opposite directions or from RFP-CSI1 and GFP-CSI3 traveling in the same direction while maintaining different positions along the same track. To decipher the relationship between CSI1 and CSI3, we examined the temporal dynamic behavior of RFP-CSI1 and GFP-CSI3 particles. In 65% of observed cases (51 out of 78 colocalization events), RFP-CSI1 and GFP-CSI3 particles moved in opposite directions, overlapping briefly (at the 75-s time point) before parting and continuing to move in opposite directions (Figure 3E). Furthermore, we observed prolonged associations between RFP-CSI1 and GFP-CSI3 particles that were moving in the same direction, in which colocalized particles traveled together for at least 2 min before splitting into distinct particles (27 out of 78 colocalization events; Figure 3F; see Supplemental Movie 2 online). However, in the majority of cases in which RFP-CSI1 and GFP-CSI3 particles moved in the same direction, one particle lagged behind the other (Figure 3G; see Supplemental Movie 2 online). These observations suggest that the limited colocalization between RFP-CSI1 and GFP-CSI3 may represent particles that maintain distinct roles, while temporarily overlapping without functional association. CSI1 interacts with the primary CESAs, including CESA1, CESA3, and CESA6, in a conventional yeast two-hybrid assay (CITATION; CITATION). To test for direct interaction between CSI3 and the full-length CESAs, we performed a split-ubiquitin yeast two-hybrid assay, which can analyze protein–protein interactions of integral membrane proteins (CITATION). Full-length CESA3 and CESA6 sequences were fused to the C-terminal half of ubiquitin (Cub) and were able to reconstitute a functional ubiquitin when cotransformed with the wild-type N-terminal half of ubiquitin (NubWT), which was used as a positive control, but not when cotransformed with a mutated form of Nub (NubG), which was used as a negative control (Figure 4A). As an additional negative control, no reporter gene expression was detected when either CSI1-NubG or CSI3-NubG were cotransformed with Cub alone (Figure 4A). When either CSI1 or CSI3 was fused to NubG and cotransformed into yeast with CESA3-Cub or CESA6-Cub, reporter gene expression was detected, suggesting that CSI1 and CSI3 interact with full-length CESA3 and CESA6 in the split-ubiquitin yeast two-hybrid assay. [[FIGURE]] To examine whether CSI3 associates with CSCs in vivo, we generated a line carrying both RFP-CSI3 and YFP-CESA6. Two-channel confocal imaging revealed that the RFP-CSI3 signal extensively overlapped with YFP-CESA6 (Figure 4B; see Supplemental Movie 3 online). The colocalization quantification showed that ∼75% ± 3% of YFP-CESA6 particles (five cells from five individual seedlings) colocalized with RFP-CSI3 particles (Table 2), similar to what has been observed for the colocalization ratio between GFP-CESA6 and RFP-CSI1 (CITATION; CITATION). These results suggest that both CSI1 and CSI3 associate with the primary CSCs at the plasma membrane. In addition to associating with CESA at the plasma membrane, CSI1 also labels small CESA-containing compartments (SmaCCs) or microtubule-associated cellulose synthase compartments (MASCs) (CITATION). After dark-grown hypocotyls were treated with 100 nM isoxaben for 2 h, RFP-CSI3 also accumulated in a subset of SmaCCs/MASCs that were colabeled with YFP-CESA6 (Figure 5A). RFP-CSI3–containing SmaCCs/MASCs moved with a variable speed from 10 to 3000 nm/min (see Supplemental Figure 6D online), which is consistent with the dynamics of SmaCCs/MASCs (CITATION; CITATION). RFP-CSI3 punctae moved simultaneously with SmaCCs/MASCs that were colabeled with YFP-CESA6 (Figure 5C; see Supplemental Movie 4 online). RFP-CSI3 punctae appeared in the same focal plane as YFP-CESA6 and showed typical erratic motility with rapid and short dislocations. [[FIGURE]] The colocalization ratio of SmaCCs/MASCs colabeled with YFP-CESA6 and RFP-CSI3 was smaller than that of SmaCCs/MASCs colabeled with YFP-CESA6 and RFP-CSI1 (Table 3), suggesting that CSI3 associates with a subset of SmaCCs/MASCs. To investigate whether the CSI1- and CSI3-containing SmaCC/MASC populations overlap, a colocalization analysis was performed between RFP-CSI1 and GFP-CSI3. The colocalization ratio of the isoxaben-induced SmaCCs/MASCs colabeled with RFP-CSI1 and GFP-CSI3 was similar to the colocalization ratio between plasma membrane–localized RFP-CSI1 and GFP-CSI3 particles in the absence of isoxaben (see Supplemental Figures 6A and 6B online; Table 3). To determine whether there was a functional relationship between CSI1 and CSI3 in colabeled SmaCCs/MASCs, the temporal behavior of CSI1- and CSI3-containing SmaCCs/MASCs was analyzed. Multiple distinct RFP-CSI1 and GFP-CSI3 isoxaben-induced SmaCC/MASC particles merged into a single SmaCC/MASC particle with overlapping RFP-CSI1 and GFP-CSI3 signal. This colabeled SmaCC/MASC particle was stable for ∼40 s before splitting into two separate RFP-CSI1–labeled particles that were distinct from the GFP-CSI3–labeled particle that remained stable and stationary (see Supplemental Figure 6C and Supplemental Movie 5 online). Similar to the relationship observed between overlapping plasma membrane–localized CSI1 and CSI3 particles, the temporal behavior of RFP-CSI1 and GFP-CSI3 colabeled SmaCCs/MASCs suggests that CSI1 and CSI3 mark two distinct SmaCC/MASC populations. Together, these results indicate that heterogeneity may exist within CSC populations and within SmaCC/MASC populations. CSI1 is the scaffold between CSCs and cortical microtubules (CITATION). Considering the similarity between CSI1 and CSI3, the spatial relationship between CSI3 and microtubules was examined. Two-channel confocal imaging of a line carrying both GFP-CSI3 and RFP-TUA5 revealed that CSI3 moved in a linear track along underlying cortical microtubules (see Supplemental Figure 7A and Supplemental Movie 6 online). In a single optical section, around 80% ± 3% of RFP-CSI3 particles (five cells from five individual seedlings) coaligned with microtubules. To further examine the spatial relationship between CSI1, CSI3, and microtubules, we generated a line carrying cyan fluorescent protein (CFP)-TUA1, RFP-CSI1, and GFP-CSI3. Three-channel confocal imaging revealed that the percentage of coincidence between RFP-CSI1 and microtubules (85% ± 10%, three cells from three individual seedlings) is similar to that of between GFP-CSI3 and microtubules (77% ± 10%, three cells from three individual seedlings; see Supplemental Figure 7B online). These observations suggest that, similar to CSI1, CSI3 particles travel along the underlying microtubules. To further investigate the function of CSI3, we generated a construct in which CSI3 cDNA was fused with GFP under the control of the CSI1 promoter (ProCSI1:GFP-CSI3) (Figure 6A). The ProCSI1:GFP-CSI3 construct was transformed into csi1-3. Homozygous transgenic lines were selected and analyzed for dark-grown growth morphology. ProCSI1:GFP-CSI3 was not able to rescue the short and swollen hypocotyl phenotype of csi1-3 (Figures 6B to 6D). To assess whether ProCSI1:GFP-CSI3 (P1C3) is able to associate with CSCs at the plasma membrane, two individual lines of P1C3 in csi1-3 (#38 and #53) were examined using spinning disk confocal microscopy. P1C3 particles were localized at the plasma membrane in a pattern indistinguishable from GFP-CSI3 particles driven by the native CSI3 promoter (Figures 6E and 6F; see Supplemental Figure 5E online). P1C3 particles moved bidirectionally and formed linear trajectories, suggesting that P1C3 particles were functionally associated with CSCs. However, since P1C3 was not able to complement the mutant phenotype of csi1-3, CSI3 is not functionally equivalent to CSI1. [[FIGURE]] To test whether the function of CSI3 is dependent on CSI1, we examined the distribution and dynamics of GFP-CSI3 particles in the ProCSI3:GFP-CSI3 (P3C3) complemented csi1 csi3 mutant background. In csi1 csi3, GFP-CSI3 particles were localized at the plasma membrane and formed short and dense trajectories in the time-averaged images (Figure 6F). The average velocity of GFP-CSI3 had more than a 40% reduction when CSI1 was absent. The mean velocity of GFP-CSI3 in csi1 csi3 (194 ± 82 nm/min; Figure 6G; see Supplemental Movie 7 online) was similar to that of YFP-CESA6 in csi1 (CITATION), suggesting that CSI1 is required for normal motility of CSI3-associated CSCs. The velocity reduction of P1C3 in csi1 csi3 is comparable to that of P3C3 in csi1 csi3 (Figure 6G), further supporting the notion that CSI1 is required for CSI3-associated CSCs.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana seeds were surface sterilized using 15% bleach, stratified at 4°C for 3 d, plated on Murashige and Skoog (MS) plates (one-half-strength MS salts, 0.8% agar, and 0.05% MES, pH 5.7), and grown vertically at 22°C in darkness for the specified number of days before drug treatment and imaging. For soil-grown plants, seedlings were germinated and grown on MS plates containing 1% Suc for several days and then transferred to pots in an Arabidopsis growth chamber (Percival) at 22°C under a 16-h-light and 8-h-dark cycle. GFP-CESA3 and GFP-CESA6 seeds were provided by H. Höfte (CITATION). GFP-CSI3 was constructed in a similar fashion as RFP-CSI1 (CITATION). Briefly, a 35S promoter in pH7FWG2 (CITATION) was replaced by a 3-kb CSI3 promoter to create pYG110. The full-length cDNA clone of CSI3 was introduced into pYG111 using Gateway Clonase II (Invitrogen). The verified construct pYG112 was introduced into csi3-1 using Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated transformation. RFP-CSI1 plants were constructed as described previously (CITATION) and crossed with GFP-CSI3 to create double-labeled transgenic lines. CSI3-RFP was constructed in a similar fashion as GFP-CSI3 except the choice of vector was pH7RWG2. Homozygous YFP-CESA6 prc1-1 seeds (line A6Y-11) were obtained from Chris Somerville (Energy Bioscience Institute, University of California, Berkeley, CA) and crossed with CSI3-RFP to create double-labeled transgenic lines. mCherry-TUA5 seeds were provided by R. Gutierrez and crossed with GFP-CSI3 to create double-labeled transgenic lines. CFP-TUA1 seeds were provided by R. Gutierrez (CITATION) and crossed with YFP-CESA6/RFP-CSI3 to generate triple-labeled transgenic lines. The full-length cDNA of CESA3 and CESA6 were PCR amplified and cloned into PCR8 TOPO vector (Invitrogen) using primers in Supplemental Table 1 online. Sequence-confirmed CESA constructs were cloned into CubPLV and NubGX33 (CITATION) by Gateway cloning (Invitrogen). The bait expression is regulated by the Met25 promoter, and expression can therefore be regulated by different Met concentrations. The full-length cDNAs of CSI1 and CSI3 were PCR amplified and cloned into the pDONRzeo vector (Invitrogen) using primers in Supplemental Table 1 online. Sequence-confirmed pDONRzeo-CSI1 and pDONRzeo-CSI3 constructs were cloned into CubPLV and NubGX33 by Gateway cloning (Invitrogen). Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain THY.AP4 was used to cotransform Nub and Cub constructs. NubWT was used as a positive control. NubGX33 was used as a negative control. Cotransformants were selected on synthetic medium lacking Trp and Leu. Cotransformants were grown at 30°C for up to 3 d. For growth assays, cells were grown on synthetic medium lacking Trp, Leu, and His with different concentrations of Met as indicated. The bait was also screened using 15 mM 3-ammonium-triazole in the selection medium to rule out auto activation. β-Galactosidase activity was determined by an in vivo plate assay using X-gal in the medium. The CSI1 promoter was amplified using the primers indicated in Supplemental Table 1 online. Amplified CSI1 promoter was inserted into PCR8 TOPO (Invitrogen). Sequence-confirmed PCR8-proCSI1 was digested using SacI-SpeI and inserted into the pH7FWG2 (CITATION) vector to replace the 35S promoter. The full-length cDNA clone of CSI3 was introduced into pH7FWG2 containing the CSI1 promoter using Gateway Clonase II (Invitrogen). The verified construct pYG113 was introduced into csi1-3 by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Transgenic lines were selected on MS medium containing 25 μg/mL of hygromycin and verified by PCR using primers in Supplemental Table 1 online. The identification of the csi3 knockout line from the SIGNAL collection (http://signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/tdnaexpress) was based on a combination of database searches and PCR amplification of T-DNA flanking regions. For T-DNA lines identified from the SIGNAL collection, seeds were obtained from the ABRC (Ohio State University, Columbus, OH). PCR reactions were performed to identify single plants for the T-DNA insertion. Primers used for T-DNA genotyping of T-DNA mutant alleles are listed in Supplemental Table 1 online. Crystalline cellulose was measured in 4-d-old etiolated seedlings using the Updegraff method (CITATION). Data were collected from five technical replicates for each tissue sample. Total RNA was isolated from Arabidopsis 7-d-old, light-grown seedlings using the RNeasy plant mini kit (Qiagen). For CSI3 and ATC2, 30 cycles of PCR amplification were used using the primers in Supplemental Table 1 online. PCR products were loaded onto 0.8% agarose gels stained with ethidium bromide to visualize the amplified DNAs. For GUS construct and staining, genomic DNA fragments (3 kb) upstream from the ATG start codon of CSI2 and CSI3 were cloned into pCAMBIA 1305 GUS-Plus (see Supplemental Table 1 online). The constructs were transformed in to Arabidopsis using Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Transgenic plants were selected on hygromycin and stained for GUS activity in buffer containing 100 mM sodium phosphate, pH 7.0, 10 mM EDTA, 1 mM ferricyanide, 1 mM ferrocyanide, and 1 mM 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl β-d-glucuronic acid at 37°C overnight. Samples were cleared in 70% ethanol and observed under an Olympus Szx7 stereomicroscope. Imaging was performed on a Yokogawa CSUX1spinning disk system featuring a DMI6000 Leica motorized microscope, a Photometrics QuantEM:512SC CCD camera, and a Leica ×100/1.4–numerical aperture oil objective. An ATOF laser with three laser lines (440/491/561 nm) was used to enable faster shuttering and switching between different excitations. Band-pass filters (485/30 nm for CFP; 520/50 nm for GFP; 535/30 nm for YFP; 620/60 nm for RFP) were used for emission filtering. Image analysis was performed using Metamorph (Molecular Devices), ImageJ software (version 1.36b; http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/), iseeV3.8 (Shenzhen), and Imaris (Bitplane) software. For live-cell imaging, 2-d-old dark-grown seedlings were submerged in MS liquid medium containing the drug and incubated in darkness for various lengths of time. For short-term treatment, 3-d-old dark-grown seedlings were mounted in MS liquid medium containing drugs and imaged at various time points. Oryzalin and isoxaben were dissolved in DMSO to create stock solutions. Stocks were diluted in water directly before each experiment. For mock treatment, seedlings were incubated in appropriately diluted DMSO solution. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: At2g22125 (CSI1), At1g44120 (CSI2), At1g77460 (CSI3), At5g05170 (CESA3), and At5g64740 (CESA6). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. CSI1-Like Proteins in Arabidopsis. Supplemental Figure 2. CSI3 Is Expressed in Various Tissues. Supplemental Figure 3. T-DNA Insertion Analysis of csi3-1 Mutant. Supplemental Figure 4. Anisotropic Growth Defect and Cellulose Content of the csi1 csi3 Double Mutant. Supplemental Figure 5. Similar to CSI1, CSI3 Is Localized to Distinct Particles at the Plasma Membrane. Supplemental Figure 6. CSI3 Partially Associates with SmaCCs/MASCs. Supplemental Figure 7. Colocalization Analysis among CSI1, CSI3, and Microtubules. Supplemental Table 1. DNA Primers Used in This Study. Supplemental Movie 1. Dynamic Association between RFP-CSI1 and GFP-CSI3 (Quantified by Velocity Measurement in Figure 3A). Supplemental Movie 2. Dynamic Behavior of RFP-CSI1 and GFP-CSI3 (Corresponding to Figures 3E and 3F). Supplemental Movie 3. Dynamic Association between CSI3 and CESA Complexes. Supplemental Movie 4. Dynamic Behavior of YFP-CESA6– or RFP-CSI3–Associated SmaCCs/MASCs (Corresponding to Figure 5C). Supplemental Movie 5. Dynamic Behavior of RFP-CSI1– or GFP-CSI3–Associated SmaCCs/MASCs (Corresponding to Supplemental Figure 7C). Supplemental Movie 6. Dynamic Association between CSI3 and Microtubules. Supplemental Movie 7. The CSI3 Velocity Is Dependent on CSI1 (Corresponding to Figure 6F). Supplemental Movie Legends 1. Brief Descriptions of Supplemental Movies 1 to 7.
