!~ABS~! The amino acid sequence of APX4 is similar to other ascorbate peroxidases (APXs), a group of proteins that protect plants from oxidative damage by transferring electrons from ascorbate to detoxify peroxides. In this study, we characterized two apx4 mutant alleles. Translational fusions with GFP indicated APX4 localizes to chloroplasts. Both apx4 mutant alleles formed chlorotic cotyledons with significantly reduced chlorophyll a, chlorophyll b and lutein. Given the homology of APX to ROS-scavenging proteins, this result is consistent with APX4 protecting seedling photosystems from oxidation. The growth of apx4 seedlings was stunted early in seedling development. In addition, APX4 altered seed quality by affecting seed coat formation. While apx4 seed development appeared normal, the seed coat was darker and more permeable than the wild type. In addition, accelerated aging tests showed that apx4 seeds were more sensitive to environmental stress than the wild-type seeds. If APX4 affects seed pigment biosynthesis or reduction, the seed coat color and permeability phenotypes are explained. apx4 mutants had cotyledon chlorosis, increased H2O2 accumulation, and reduced soluble APX activity in seedlings. These results indicate that APX4 is involved in the ROS-scavenging process in chloroplasts.
!~RES~! Chlorotic cotyledons were found in two different apx4 mutant alleles, designated as apx4-1 and apx4-2 (Fig. 1e, f). The apx4-1 mutant has a T-DNA insertion in the sixth intron and the apx4-2 mutant has a T-DNA insertion in the last exon (Fig. 1m). In both apx4 alleles, the chlorotic-cotyledon phenotype was incompletely penetrant or had variable expressivity (Fig. 1b, c). This phenotype was observed in 66 and 80 % of the apx4-1 and apx4-2 seedlings, respectively. Seedlings with severely chlorotic cotyledons often died when sown in soil, but they survived when grown on GM plates containing sucrose. This indicates that apx4 seedlings acquired nutrients from the media that they were unable to synthesize in sufficient amounts when grown on soil. [[FIGURE]]  Two findings show that the chlorosis phenotype was caused by mutation of the APX4 locus. First, the heteroallelic apx4-1/apx4-2 plants displayed a chlorotic-cotyledon phenotype, which was indistinguishable from the parental phenotype (Fig. 1g). This eliminates the possibility that a second-site mutation caused the phenotype. Secondly, introducing an intact APX4 gene into the apx4-1 mutant background complemented the chlorotic-cotyledon phenotype (Fig. 1h). This indicates that the genomic fragment containing APX4 was sufficient to compensate for the mutated APX4 locus and eliminate the cotyledon phenotype. Seedlings of apx4 mutants were separated into two groups, green cotyledons (GC) and chlorotic cotyledons (CC), and their pigments were extracted. Data revealed that chlorophyll a, chlorophyll b and lutein contents in both apx4 mutant alleles with chlorotic cotyledons were significantly reduced (Fig. 2). Surprisingly, apx4-1 seedlings without apparent chlorotic cotyledons had significantly less chlorophyll and lutein than the wild type. The apx4-2 seedlings with green cotyledons had lower, but not significantly different, levels. The data revealed that cotyledon chlorosis occurred in both groups of seedlings, which shows that the apx4 mutants exhibited variable expressivity and not poor penetrance. [[FIGURE]]  Because the biomass of a single Arabidopsis seedling is difficult to measure accurately (Paul-Victor et al. CITATION), seedling growth was evaluated by measuring leaf area (including the cotyledons) and root length. Seedlings were grown on GM plates that were oriented vertically so the roots would grow across the surface. In 7-day-old seedlings, the root lengths and leaf area of both apx4 alleles were significantly lower than controls (Fig. 3). [[FIGURE]]  The seed color of apx4 mutants was darker than wild-type seeds (Fig. 1i). Because changes in seed coat color are associated with other seed property modifications (Koornneef CITATION; Debeaujon et al. CITATION), seed quality and seed vigor were evaluated in apx4 alleles. Only 20 % of the apx4-1 seeds germinated after sterilization in 3 % hypochlorite, but this germination behavior was maternally controlled (Fig. 4a), indicating this phenotype was determined by seed coat properties. When 0.6 % hypochlorite was used for sterilization, freshly harvested wild-type seeds completely germinated in 2 days, whereas apx4 seeds did this in 4 days (Fig. 4b). Germination rates of apx4 significantly decreased after accelerated aging (Fig. 4b) as well as natural aging (Fig. 4c). These results indicate apx4 seeds were less tolerant of harsh environmental conditions, probably due to changes in the apx4 seed coat. In order to determine whether apx4 mutant seeds were viable, wild type and mutant seeds were evaluated to determine if they could oxidize tetrazolium chloride. Once tetrazolium penetrates the seed coat, a metabolically active embryo oxidizes this colorless dye, forming a red pigment. Normally tetrazolium cannot penetrate the Arabidopsis seed coat, so seeds need to be perforated to carry out this test. Results showed that apx4 seeds are metabolically active, but the seed coat of apx4 mutant alleles was more permeable than the wild type since tetrazolium penetrated the seed without perforation (Fig. 1j–l). [[FIGURE]]  As revealed by in situ hybridization, APX4 transcripts were found in leaf mesophyll and phloem (Fig. 5b). β-Glucuronidase (GUS) staining indicated that the APX4 promoter is most active in the cotyledons and first true leaf (Fig. 5c). These results correlate nicely with the posted expression of this gene (Winter et al. CITATION). In reproductive organs, APX4 was expressed in sepals (especially in vasculature) and the abscission area at the base of sepals (Fig. 5d, e). Examination of the dissected edge of the carpel wall revealed intense APX4::GUS staining (Fig. 5f), indicating that wounding induced the expression of this gene. According to RT-PCR results, APX4 is expressed in many tissues throughout the aboveground plant, but not in roots (Fig. 6a). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  APX4-GFP translational fusion protein localized to the chloroplasts (Fig. 5g–j). The chloroplasts in guard cells have a stronger GFP signal than chloroplasts in mesophyll cells. Although APX4 has a SKL motif at its C-terminal and was predicted to be present in peroxisomes (Panchuk et al. CITATION), our APX4-GFP translational fusion proteins did not co-localize with the DsRed-KSRM marker protein, which is targeted to peroxisomes. This GFP localization corroborates previous biochemical data showing that APX4 is present in the chloroplast lumen (Granlund et al. CITATION). According to the RT-PCR results, no full-length APX4 transcripts were found in either apx4 mutant alleles (Fig. 6b). Two other reverse primers, R4 and R5, amplified partial APX4 cDNA products (Fig. 1m). APX4 fragment A, amplified with F2 and R4 primers, was present in wild-type Arabidopsis, but not in the two apx4 mutants (Fig. 6c). The truncated APX4 cDNA fragment B, amplified with F2 and R5, was found in both apx4 alleles, but the amount was greatly reduced in apx4-2 seedlings (Fig. 6c). If the truncated APX4 transcripts (fragment B) were to be stably translated, the truncated protein would only contain a third of the amino acid sequence of a mature APX4 protein. While the apx4-2 allele is predicted to encode nearly the entire coding sequence of this gene (Fig. 1m), the T-DNA insert disrupted stable transcript accumulation for this allele (Fig. 6c). Data indicate that both apx4-1 and apx4-2 are null alleles. To investigate whether APX4 is involved in the ROS-scavenging metabolism, H2O2 levels and soluble APX activity in wild-type plants and apx4 mutants were measured. We observed large H2O2 accumulation in 5-day-old apx4 seedlings, which were higher than the baseline levels in wild-type plants (Fig. 7a). Zymographs were used to visualize active APX complexes on native polyacrylamide gels. No detergent was used on these extracts, so membrane-embedded APX likely were not extracted. Examination of Rubisco extraction efficiency with and without detergent reveals that soluble proteins in organelles were efficiently extracted. In the zymograph, the prominent signal consisted of a doublet of bands, while four minor bands displayed differing migration rates (Fig. 7c). In apx4 alleles, two bands showed diminished intensity when compared to controls (see arrows in Fig. 7c). The kinetic assay measured APX activity by the consumption of ascorbate in an APX-dependent fashion, confirming that the decrease of soluble APX activity in apx4 alleles were significant (P < 0.01). [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! Plants were grown in square 2.5-in. pots with continuous illumination using fluorescent lights (100 μmol m−2 s−1). Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Col-0) and two apx4 T-DNA mutant alleles were characterized using ABRC stocks (Alonso et al. CITATION). The SAIL_519_E04 and SALK_119726 accessions were named apx4-1 and apx4-2, respectively. Plants were genotyped by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Two gene-specific primers, F2 (5′-CTGTTCCTTCCTTCACCAAC-3′) and R2 (5′-AGTTTGCTCAGATTGATCCGT-3′), were used to verify the presence of wild-type allele. To identify mutant alleles by PCR, a gene-specific primer (F2 for apx4-1 and R2 for apx4-2) and a T-DNA left border primer (LBb1, 5′-ATTTCGGAACCACCATCAAAC-3′ or Sail_LB, 5′-CATAACCAATCTCGATACACC-3′) were used. Seeds were sterilized in either 0.6 or 3 % hypochlorite with 0.01 % Tween-20 for 15 min and washed several times with sterile water. Imbibed seeds (4 °C for 3 days in the dark) were spread on the GM plates. GM plates contain 0.5× MS salts, 1× B5 vitamins, 0.5 % phytoagar, pH 5.8. Sterilized seeds were incubated in a Percival plant growth chamber (Perry, IA, USA) at 22 °C with continuous 50 μmol m−2 s−1 irradiation. Germination was defined as 1 mm radical emergence and recorded daily for a week. For accelerated aging tests, seeds were incubated in a chamber at 41.5 °C with 100 % relative humidity for 3 days and air dried for another 3 days. Aged seeds were sterilized and germinated on GM plates, as described above. For seedling growth comparison, wild type (Col-0) and two apx4 mutant seeds were grown on GM plates (phytoagar was replaced with 1.5 % agar) for 7 days. Plates were set vertically so the roots grew along the surface of the plates. Images of individual plants were captured. The leaf area was determined using these images, while root length was measured directly. Results were analyzed by ANOVA. Intact and perforated seeds were imbibed in 1 % 2,3,5-triphenyl tetrazolium chloride solution (Sigma, St. Louis, MO, USA) according to Boisson et al. (CITATION) to determine seed viability and permeability. Fresh weights of 7-day-old plants were measured. Individual plants were ground in liquid nitrogen and pigments dissolved in 1 mL of 100 % acetone for 10 min. Except when samples were vortexed to increase pigment extraction, samples were stored in the dark. The absorbance of the extracts at 662, 645, and 474 nm were used to determine chlorophyll a, chlorophyll b, and lutein levels. Using extinction coefficients for chlorophyll a (82.7 L g−1 cm−1), chlorophyll b (50.7 L g−1 cm−1) and lutein (197.3 L g−1 cm−1), pigment levels were determined (Bulda et al. CITATION). Total RNA was isolated from tissues using RNeasy kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA, USA). Complementary DNA (cDNA) was synthesized using SuperScript II reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen, Grand Island, NY, USA) from 1 μg of total RNA that was primed with 0.5 μg oligo(dT)12–18. APX4 transcripts were amplified using first-strand cDNA and gene-specific primers: to amplify full-length APX4 transcripts F2 and R2 primers were used; to amplify cDNA fragment A (Frag A), F2 and R4 (5′-AGATACGGTTTCACGGCTTC-3′) primers were used; to amplify cDNA fragment B (Frag B), F2 and R5 (5′-CTGCATATGAAATAGGACCTC-3′) primers were used. UBQ10 transcripts were amplified as internal controls using the same first-strand cDNA template and UBQ10 gene-specific primers (5′-GAAAACAATTGGAGGATGGTC-3′ and 5′-GAGACGAGATTTAGAAACCAC-3′). In situ hybridization was performed according to Park et al. (CITATION). Seven-day-old Arabidopsis seedlings were grown on GM plates with 1 % sucrose, then embedded in paraffin and 10 μm sections mounted on slides. For sense probe synthesis, the following primers were used: 5′-TAATACGACTCACTATAGGGCCTTCACAAAACCAAAACACAC-3′ and 5′-CTTTTGCATCACCCACATTG-3′; for anti-sense probe synthesis, the following primers were used: 5′-TAATACGACTCACTATAGGGCTTTTGCATCACCCACATTG-3′ and 5′-CCTTCACAAAACCAAAACACAC-3′. To construct APX4::GUS, 1.1 kb of APX4 upstream sequence was PCR amplified and transcriptionally fused to the upstream of the uidA gene start codon, which was in the pHK7 construct (Harikrishna et al. CITATION). The APX4::GUS fragment was excised with NotI and inserted into pMLBart (Gleave CITATION). This plasmid was moved into Agrobacterium tumefaciens, strain ASE, by electroporation. The T-DNA fragment was mobilized into Arabidopsis plants using the methodology described by Clough and Bent (CITATION). Plants containing a T-DNA insert were selected by spraying seedlings with a 1,000-fold dilution of BASTA (Finale, AgrEvo, Pikeville, NC, USA). For GUS assays, plant tissues were vacuum infiltrated with substrate solution (1 mM 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indoyl glucuronide, 50 mM sodium phosphate pH 7.0, 1 % Triton X-100, 1 % DMSO, 10 mM EDTA) and incubated at 37 °C. Seedlings and inflorescences were incubated in substrate for 2 h and 2 days, respectively. Plant pigments were removed by incubating in 70 % ethanol before microscopic examination and image capture. A binary plasmid was created that contained the APX4 coding sequence (upstream) translationally fused to the GFP coding sequence (downstream). The APX coding sequence was PCR amplified using these primers: GAATTCTGAAATGGGAGGAGTGTC and GAATTCTTAGCTTGAGTTTGCTCAG. This PCR product was cloned into the EcoRI sites of pBH10 (Hauser et al. CITATION). The 35S::APX4-GFP fragment was excised with NotI and inserted into pMLBart (Gleave CITATION). Following the transformation method described earlier, this 35S::APX4-GFP construct and the 35S::DsRed-KSRM construct (Cheng et al. CITATION) were co-transformed into Col-0 Arabidopsis plants. Transformants containing both transgenes were fixed and examined by confocal microscopy. Plant tissues were submerged in fixative solution containing 4 % paraldehyde, 0.5 % glutaraldehyde, 1 % DMSO, 3 mM DTT, 10 mM Hepes (pH 6.4), 2 mM EDTA, 5.6 mM KCl, and 10 mM MgCl2 and a weak vacuum applied. Samples were washed three times in 10 mM Hepes (pH 6.4), 2 mM EDTA, 5.6 mM KCl, and 10 mM MgCl2 and mounted with 10 % glycerol in 20 mM Tris–HCl (pH 9). GFP and DsRed fluorescence was detected using an Olympus IX81-DSU spinning disk confocal microscope (Center Valley, PA, USA) and images were processed with SlideBook software (3i, Denver, CO, USA). GFP was excited with a 472/30-nm filter and emission detected with a 520/35-nm filter. The filter set used for DsRed excited samples at 562/40 nm and detected emission at 624/40 nm. Chlorophyll autofluorescence was detected using a Cy5 filter (excitation 650/13 nm and emission 684/24 nm). Identical exposure times were used to capture images from transgenic and wild-type plants. Using these images, autofluorescence can be differentiated from GFP and DsRed signals. No detectable GFP and DsRed fluorescence was observed in wild-type plants. Zymographs were used to visualize active APX complexes on 10 % native polyacrylamide gel according to Mittler and Zilinskas (CITATION). Previous researchers observed that chloroplast APX activity was eliminated unless proteins were extracted in the presence of ascorbate (Mittler and Zilinskas CITATION; Kitajima CITATION). Tissue from 11-day-old seedlings grown on GM plates with 1 % sucrose was frozen in N2(l) and ground to a powder. Total protein was extracted in freshly made buffer that contained 50 mM sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.0), 5 mM ascorbate, 2 mM EDTA, and 1 mM PMSF. The gel and loading buffer contained 2 and 4.5 mM ascorbate, respectively. Ascorbate altered the rate of acrylamide polymerization so the gel was pre-run for 30 min to allow ascorbate from the running buffer to penetrate. Before the samples were loaded, fresh running buffer was added. Ascorbate peroxidase activity was measured in the native gel with assay buffer, which contained 50 mM potassium phosphate (pH 7.0), 0.5 mM ascorbate, 1 mM hydrogen peroxide, and 0.1 mM EDTA. The same assay buffer was used to spectrophotometrically measure APX activity in total protein extracts. APX activity was defined as the consumption of ascorbate per microgram total protein per minute, assuming an absorption coefficient of 2.8 mM−1 cm−1 at 290 nm. Amplex Red (Invitrogen) readily penetrates cells and interacts with H2O2 (Ashtamker et al. CITATION). Seedlings were immersed in the Amplex Red solution for 10 min in darkness following by a 10-s rinse with sterile water. Fluorescence images were captured with an MZFL dissecting microscope (Leica, Buffalo Grove, IL, USA) using a 546/10-nm narrow-band excitation filter and 590-nm long-pass emission filter.
