!~ABS~! Leaf venation develops complex patterns in angiosperms, but the mechanism underlying this process is largely unknown. To elucidate the molecular mechanisms governing vein pattern formation, we previously isolated vascular network defective (van) mutants that displayed venation discontinuities. Here, we report the phenotypic analysis of van4 mutants, and we identify and characterize the VAN4 gene. Detailed phenotypic analysis shows that van4 mutants are defective in procambium cell differentiation and subsequent vascular cell differentiation. Reduced shoot and root cell growth is observed in van4 mutants, suggesting that VAN4 function is important for cell growth and the establishment of venation continuity. Consistent with these phenotypes, the VAN4 gene is strongly expressed in vascular and meristematic cells. VAN4 encodes a putative TRS120, which is a known guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for Rab GTPase involved in regulating vesicle transport, and a known tethering factor that determines the specificity of membrane fusion. VAN4 protein localizes at the trans-Golgi network/early endosome (TGN/EE). Aberrant recycling of the auxin efflux carrier PIN proteins is observed in van4 mutants. These results suggest that VAN4-mediated exocytosis at the TGN plays important roles in plant vascular development and cell growth in shoot and root. Our identification of VAN4 as a putative TRS120 shows that Rab GTPases are crucial (in addition to ARF GTPases) for continuous vascular development, and provides further evidence for the importance of vesicle transport in leaf vascular formation.
!~RES~! Leaves of van4 mutants have defects in vascular differentiation, but how VAN4 regulates vascular development was not clear. Vascular cells differentiate from procambium cells, which arise in leaves from the ground meristem. To examine the steps of vascular tissue differentiation that are affected by the VAN4 mutation, we introduced pAthb8::GUS (CITATION) to the van4 mutant as a marker of procambium cells. In wild-type cotyledons, pAthb8::GUS was continuously expressed along the mid-vein and the proximal and distal loops of lateral veins, which resulted in the contiguous procambium cell files developing venation (Fig. 1A). In van4 mutant cotyledons, pAthb8::GUS-expressing cells occasionally formed discontinuous lateral loops (Fig. 1B, C; Table 1). Continuous loops of pAthb8::GUS-expressing cell files that did not develop vascular tracheary elements were also observed in van4 mutants, and showed defects in later steps of vascular cell development (Fig. 1C). These results suggest that VAN4 is involved in early vascular patterning of the procambium network and later vascular cell differentiation, such as the development of tracheary elements from procambial cells.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To examine the relationship between VAN4 and auxin transport-mediated vascular pattern formation, we crossed the van4 mutant with the pin1-3 mutant, which is defective in polar auxin transport (CITATION), and analyzed the resulting venation patterns. The van4 mutant had a discontinuous vascular network in cotyledons, but no significant effects on the overall vascular pattern architecture (Fig. 1D, F; Table 2). The pin1-3 seedlings had fused cotyledons in which the mid-vein was occasionally furcated (Fig. 1E; Table 2) (CITATION). Seedlings of the van4 pin1-3 double mutant exhibited fused cotyledons in which discontinuous veins were formed, like those in van4, implying an additive effect of VAN4 and PIN1 mutations (Fig. 1G; Table 2). We also analyzed the effect of 1-N-naphthylphthalamic acid (NPA), an auxin transport inhibitor, on the vascular patterning in first-node leaves. NPA progressively enhanced the vascular differentiation, especially along the leaf margin, as the concentration of NPA was increased, and the marginal vascular tissues were connected to central vascular tissues in the wild-type (Supplementary Fig. S1A–C) (CITATION). In van4 mutant grown with NPA, vascularization was enhanced, which mimicked wild-type plants treated with NPA, but the vasculature often became disconnected at leaf margins, like those in van4 (Supplementary Fig. S1D–F). Finally, we observed the PIN1–GFP localization during cotyledon vascular development. PIN1–GFP within the cells in the secondary vein was known to localize towards the primary veins in wild-type cells and these features were also observed in van4 mutant cells (Supplementary Fig. S2). Dissection of cotyledons from embryos damaged the tissues, whose impact seemed to cause variations of PIN1–GFP signal intensity. Therefore, we cannot determine the amount of PIN1 protein at the PM in cotyledon veins; however, we could identify that the PIN1–GFP expression domain (PED) at the cotyledon margin in van4 mutant is more fragile than in the wild type, which presumably leads to discontinuity of venation. These results suggest that VAN4 regulates venation patterning through primarily maintaining or establishing the PEDs rather than establishing the polar localization of PIN proteins.  To address further the role of VAN4 in plant development, we performed phenotypic analysis of the van4 mutant at the whole-plant level. We analyzed the phenotypes of 14-day-old van4 mutant seedlings. The van4 mutant displayed smaller leaves and shorter primary roots than wild-type (Ler) seedlings (Fig. 2A, B), and these defects were lethal when the seedlings were approximately 4 weeks old. Serial observations revealed that the primary root length of van4 was essentially the same as that of the wild type until 3 days after germination (DAG), whereas the slower growth of van4 roots became obvious by 7 DAG. At 12 DAG, van4 primary roots were five times shorter than those of the wild type, and van4 developed more adventitious roots than the wild type (Fig. 2B, C). Next, we performed tissue culture experiments. We first induced adventitious root development from hypocotyls obtained from seedlings at 12 DAG. Ler hypocotyls actively produced adventitious roots, whereas the van4 mutant hypocotyls produced fewer and shorter adventitious roots (Fig. 2D, G; Supplementary Table S1). We also induced adventitious shoots from hypocotyls and compared their growth. The induction of adventitious shoots was successful in wild-type hypocotyls, whereas the van4 mutants did not develop any shoot-like structures, although they did develop greenish spots (Fig. 2E, H; Supplementary Table S1). Finally, we tested the induction of callus formation from hypocotyls. The van4 calli grew more slowly than those of the wild type, which suggests that VAN4 function is necessary to maintain cell division (Fig. 2F, I; Supplementary Table S1). Together, these data indicate that VAN4 also functions in other developmental programs in addition to vascular development.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] VAN4 was previously mapped to the top of chromosome 5 (CITATION). To clone VAN4, we generated a large mapping population from a cross between van4 and wild-type Columbia. The population was scored for the mutant phenotype, and 671 mutant plants were selected and screened with polymorphic markers, which were designed based on the limited sequence data in the region mapped as the VAN4 locus. Finally, VAN4 was localized to the T5K6 BAC (bacterial artificial chromosome) clone, as illustrated in Fig. 3A. There were 14 genes in this region based on gene annotation. All 14 genes were completely sequenced in the van4 background, and a C-to-T nucleotide transition mutation was found in the predicted coding sequence (CDS) of At5g11040 (Fig. 3B). To confirm that this gene is the causal gene of the van4 mutant, the wild-type sequence that contains 2.2 kb upstream of the putative transcription start site and approximately 2.4 kb downstream of the putative transcription termination site was introduced into the van4 mutant by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. This region rescued the phenotype of the van4 mutant, confirming that VAN4 encodes At5g11040. We isolated the full-length VAN4 cDNA by combination of 5′ RACE (rapid amplification of cDNA ends) and 3′ RACE, and defined the structure of the VAN4 gene. The VAN4 gene encoded a protein composed of 1,186 amino acids, and glutamine at codon 396 was changed to a stop codon in the van4 mutant (Fig. 3B). At5g11040 was recently reported as a putative TRS120, a member of the TRAPPII complex that functions as a GEF for Ypt31/32 and/or a tethering factor (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). At5g11040 was shown to regulate exocytosis, the cell plate and cell polarity formation in Arabidopsis (CITATION). We identified defects in cell division and venation in van4 mutants. These similarities provided further evidence that VAN4 encodes At5g11040.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We investigated VAN4 expression patterns by performing RNA gel-blot analysis using digoxigenin-labeled antisense RNA probes for the cDNAs. RNA was isolated from roots, leaves, stems and flowers. VAN4 mRNA accumulated in all organs tested, which is consistent with previous data obtained by reverse transcription–PCR (RT–PCR) analyses (Fig. 4) (CITATION). We identified differential accumulation of VAN4 mRNA among different organs. VAN4 mRNA accumulated to high levels in roots and flowers, which include meristematic cells (Fig. 4). These results suggest strong expression of VAN4 in meristematic cells.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To examine further the expression pattern of VAN4, we produced transgenic plants harboring the β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene fused to a 2.2 kbp upstream promoter region of VAN4. pVAN4::GUS expression was detected in flowers and roots. Strong expression was detected at root meristems and vascular cells in petals, stamens and roots (Fig. 5A–D). In pistils, pVAN4::GUS expression was detected particularly at vascular cells in the funiculus and ovules (Fig. 5E, F). Notably stronger expression was detected in immature vascular cells close to ovules, which implies a role for VAN4 in vascular development.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The van4 mutant has a characteristic phenotype with respect to leaf vascular development. Therefore, we performed detailed analysis of pVAN4::GUS expression during venation development. We initially analyzed pVAN4::GUS expression in torpedo stage embryos, when the differentiation of procambium cells in cotyledons starts. pVAN4::GUS expression was ubiquitous throughout the torpedo embryo, and the expression level was largely uniform among the tissues (Fig. 5G, H). Next, we analyzed pVAN4::GUS expression in cotyledons of seedlings at 7 DAG, when procambium cells differentiate into vascular cells, including xylem cells, and found that pVAN4::GUS expression was confined to the veins (Fig. 5I), with strong expression in procambium cells (Fig. 5J). These expression patterns are in good agreement with the venation defects of van4 mutants. Subcellular localization analysis of VAN4/TRS120 has not been reported. To examine the intracellular localization of VAN4, we analyzed the association of VAN4 with plant membranes. For this experiment, we produced a plasmid in which the VAN4 CDS containing the 2.2 kb promoter and the 2.4 kb 3′ untranslated region (UTR) was fused with the C-terminal 3× myc tag. This plasmid complemented the van4 mutants when introduced into van4 by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation, indicating that the VAN4-3×myc fusion protein is fully functional. We prepared microsomal membrane and soluble protein fractions from the pVAN4::VAN4-3×myc transgenic plants, and examined the presence of VAN4 with an anti-myc antibody. The VAN4 protein was detected in both the membrane and the soluble fraction, but it was more enriched in the membrane fraction (Fig. 6A). The membrane association was sensitive to urea, Na2CO3, Triton X-100 and CHAPs, whereas it was resistant to NaCl (Fig. 6A). These results indicate that VAN4 is not an integral membrane protein, but a peripheral membrane protein that associates with plant membranes via non-electrostatic interactions.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To gain insights into the intracellular site of VAN4 activity, we examined localization of VAN4 proteins using anti-myc antibody in the roots of transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing VAN4-3×myc under the control of the VAN4 promoter. We failed to detect reliable signals under normal conditions. However, some signals were detected in the presence of BFA, an ARF-GEF inhibitor. In Arabidopsis, BFA treatment induces the aggregation of endosomes into so-called BFA bodies surrounded by Golgi bodies (CITATION). VAN4-3×myc localized at the core of BFA bodies, and the Golgi marker ST–GFP (CITATION) distinctly surrounded the BFA bodies. These results suggest that VAN4 proteins are localized in endosomes (Supplementary Fig. S3). The failure of immunostaining of VAN4-3×myc under normal untreated conditions may result from instability of VAN4-3×myc during fixation. To overcome this problem, we established transgenic van4 mutants complemented by the expression of pVAN4::VAN4-GFP. Functional pVAN4::VAN4-GFP lines were crossed with monomeric red fluorescent protein (mRFP)-tagged organelle marker lines, and we observed the root cells. Dot-like signals of VAN4–GFP were not significantly localized with the Golgi marker ST–mRFP (CITATION) or the pre-vacuolar compartment/multivesicular body (PVC/MVB) marker mRFP–Ara7 (Fig. 6B, C; Supplementary Fig.S4) (CITATION). In contrast, significant co-localization between VAN4–GFP and the TGN/EE marker vacuolar H+-ATPase subunit 1 (VHA1)–mRFP or mRFP–RabA1b was observed (Fig. 6D, E; Supplementary Fig. S4) (CITATION, CITATION). We also analyzed the effects of BFA on the localization of VAN4–GFP. Similar to the case with VAN4-3×myc, BFA caused aggregation of VAN4–GFP surrounded by the ST–mRFP-labeled organelles (Fig. 6F). No significant co-localization was observed between VAN4–GFP and ST–mRFP (Fig. 6F), or between VAN4–GFP and mRFP–Ara7 (Fig. 6G). VAN4–GFP co-localized with VHA1–mRFP (Fig. 6H) and with mRFP–RabA1b at the core of BFA bodies (Fig. 6I). Furthermore, mRFP–RabA1b almost completely co-localized with VAN4–GFP at the BFA body, implying their close relationships. These data indicate that VAN4 acts at TGN/EE compartments. Based on the subcellular localization, it is conceivable that VAN4 may regulate membrane trafficking in the translocation of cargo to the PM or other cellular compartments. PIN proteins undergo constitutive clathrin-mediated endocytosis and subsequent recycling to PMs; thus, they are good markers to visualize protein internalization and recycling (CITATION, CITATION). Since analyzing the intracellular function of VAN4 by using leaf vascular cells was technically difficult, we used van4 root cells to analyze endocytic recycling of PIN proteins. First, we performed immunolocalization of PIN1 and PIN2 under normal conditions. In wild-type cells, PIN1 localized to the basal (rootward) sides of PMs in vascular cells, whereas PIN2 localized apically (shootward) and basally at the PMs in epidermal and cortical cells, respectively (Fig. 7A). In van4 roots, the polar localization of PIN proteins is largely normal, which fits with our phenotypic analysis of pin1 van4 double mutants. However, increased internalization of PIN proteins was observed in van4 roots (Fig. 7C, E). We also applied BFA to van4 root cells to examine whether VAN4 was required for the cycling of PIN proteins. BFA predominantly inhibits the exocytic pathway rather than the endocytic pathway, so that the ratio between exocytosis and endocytosis is perturbed, and endocytic materials accumulate in the cell (CITATION, CITATION). Consistent with previous studies, treatment of wild-type roots with BFA led to PIN1 and PIN2 accumulation in typically two or three large endosomal aggregations (Fig. 7B). In contrast, BFA treatment of van4 mutants resulted in PIN1 and PIN2 localization in more numerous and larger endosomal aggregates in each cell (Fig. 7D, F). We also analyzed the protein levels of PIN1 at PMs in van4 mutants. We used PIN1–GFP lines instead of PIN1 antibody because immune detection often causes the variation of signal intensity. Signal intensity of PIN1–GFP at PMs in van4 mutants was significantly lower than that of the wild type (Supplementary Fig. S5). Altogether, these results suggest that VAN4 is required for normal cycling of PIN proteins, possibly in the delivery of exocytic vesicles to the PM.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Surface-sterilized seeds were plated on growth medium containing Murashige and Skoog basal salts, 1.0% (w/v) sucrose, 0.05% (w/v) MES (pH 5.7) and 0.8% (w/v) Bact Agar (Becton-Dickinson). Seeds were then transferred to a growth room at 22°C under continuous white light (20–50 µmol m−2 s−1). van4 (Ler) was crossed to Col to generate a large mapping population of F2 seedlings. Medium-grown F2 seedlings were scored for the mutant cotyledon vascular patterning phenotype. DNA was isolated from a cotyledon and scored for recombinants. Novel polymorphic markers were developed by searching the databases of TAIR and Cereon Genomics. Using these markers, the position of the VAN4 locus was determined in the 80 kb region in the T5K6 BAC clone including 14 putative genes (Arabidopsis Genome Initiative). These genes were PCR amplified from Ler and van4 as template, and completely sequenced by performing the cycle sequence reactions with a BigDye Terminator Cycle Sequencing Kit and subsequent sequence analysis of their sequences using the ABI PRISM 310 Genetic Analyzer. Among these putative genes, only At5g11040 contained a point mutation in a putative exon. For complementation of the van4 mutation, a 9.4 kb BglII–BglII genomic fragment that included the 2.2 kb upstream region of this gene and 2.4 kb downstream region was cloned into the binary vector pCAMBIA 1300 (CAMBIA). The clone was electroporated into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101::pMP90 and transformed into plants carrying the heterozygous van4 mutation (van4/VAN4) using the floral dip method. For construction of the pVAN4::GUS plasmid, the 2 kb upstream sequence of the VAN4 transcriptional start site was amplified from Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia genomic DNA by PCR with gene-specific primer sets. They were subcloned into pENTR/D/TOPO vector (Invitrogen), and then integrated into the pBGGUS binary vectors (CITATION). The resulting plasmids were transformed into Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia by the floral dip method. Histochemical GUS staining was performed with seedlings of the F2 generation. Samples were fixed in 90% (v/v) acetone for >45 min at –20°C. After washing in 100 mM sodium phosphate buffer pH 7.2 at least three times, they were immersed in a reaction mixture containing 1 mM 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl glucuronide, 0.5 mM potassium ferricyanide and 0.5 mM potassium ferrocyanide in 100 mM sodium phosphate buffer pH 7.2 and incubated at 37°C for 2 h in the dark. After the reaction, samples were mounted with a mixture of chloral hydrate, glycerol and water, and observed under a light microscope equipped with Nomarski optics. 3×[(Gly)3Ser]-3×myc and -GFP encoded fragments were amplified by PCR from pDual GC (Stratagene) and pGWB1 plasmids as templates. The VAN4-3×myc/GFP reporter construct was obtained by the triple-template-PCR (TT-PCR) method (CITATION) from both 3×[(Gly)3Ser]-3×myc or -GFP encoded fragments and the Columbia genomic DNA fragment as templates. Inserting the 3×[(Gly)3Ser] linker-tagged 3×myc or GFP open reading frame (ORF) in frame with the 3′ end of the VAN4 ORF leads to a VAN4-3×myc/GFP translational fusion that complemented the mutant phenotype. All the PCR-amplified region of the construct was completely sequenced. At least five independent lines were investigated. Two-week-old Arabidopsis seedlings were ground in GR buffer [50 mM HEPES-KOH pH 8.0, 330 mM sorbitol, 2 mM EDTA, 100 µM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (PMSF), 10 µg ml−1 leupeptin and 10 µg ml−1 pepstain A], filtered through a 70 µm lattice Cell Strainer (Becton Dickinson) and centrifuged at 1,000×g for 5 min to remove cell debris. Supernatant (S1) was centrifuged at 100,000×g for 1 h to separate the crude membrane fraction (P100) from the cytosol (S100). For solubilization, the P100 fraction was resuspended in GR buffer plus 1 M NaCl, 2 M urea, 0.1 M Na2CO3, 1% Triton X-100, 1% CHAPS or 1 % SDS and incubated on ice for 1 h. Samples were then centrifuged at 100,000×g for 1 h to separate soluble from insoluble fractions and subjected to immunoblotting analysis with 9E-10 anti-cmyc antibody (SantaCruz). Anti-cmyc was diluted to 1 : 500 in the analysis of VAN4-3×myc. The procedure for whole-mount preparations was slightly modified from CITATION. The 3- to 6-day-old Arabidopsis seedlings were fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde in MTSB pH 7.0 (50 mM PIPES, 5 mM EGTA, 5 mM MgSO4 adjusted with KOH) for 1 h. Samples were washed with 0.1% Triton in MTSB (5× 5 min). Cell wall was digested with 1% driselase (Sigma-Aldrich) in MTSB for 45 min, and samples were washed with 0.1% Triton in MTSB (5× 5 min). The plasma membrane was permeablized with 10% dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO)/3% NP-40 in MTSB for 1 h. After another wash in 0.1% Triton in MTSB (5× 5 min), seedlings were pre-incubated in 2% bovoine serum albumin (BSA) in MTSB for blocking the unspecific interactions and incubated with the primary antibody in 3 % BSA in MTSB (overnight, 37 °C). After extensive washing with 0.1 % Triton in MTSB (5 × 5 min), the seedlings were incubated with a secondary antibody in 3% BSA in MTSB (3 h, 37°C). In double labeling experiments, the antibodies were concomitantly incubated for the reaction of both primary and secondary antibodies. Finally, samples were washed with 0.1% Triton in MTSB (5× 5 min) and deionized water (5× 5 min) and transferred into Slowfade antifade mounting medium (Invitrogen). Primary antibodies were used at the following concentrations: anti PIN1 antibody and its dilution is 1 : 1,000; (CITATION), 1 : 400; 9E-10 anti-cmyc (SantaCruz), 1 : 250; and anti-GFP (Invitrogen), 1 : 200. Fluorochrome-conjugated secondary antibodies were used at the following concentrations: anti-rabbit–Alexa Fluor 488 (Invtirogen), 1 : 200; anti-rabiit-Cy3 (Sigma-Aldrich), 1 : 6 00; and anti-mouse-Alexa Fluor 568 (Invtirogen), 1 : 200. Fluorescence signals were detected with either an Olympus FV1200 or a Zeiss LSM710 confocal microscope with a ×63 water immersion objective lens. For measurement of co-localization events, the distance between the centroids of two labeled objects was calculated by MetaMorph Software. When the distance was lower than the resolution limit of the objective used, it was recognized as a co-localization event. Images from at least three independent roots were subjected to analysis. For measuring the signal intensity of PIN1–GFP in primary roots, we measured the pixel gray value that encompasses the whole diameter of the PIN1-GFP signal in the stele by ImageJ software and averaged it for five Z-stack maximal projections. Each image was processed using Adobe Photoshop CS (Adobe Systems Inc.).
