!~ABS~! The trans-Golgi network (TGN) is an important organelle for protein transport at the post-Golgi network, which functions as a sorting station that directs cargo proteins to a variety of destinations including post-Golgi compartments and the extracellular space. However, the functions and dynamics of the TGN in plant cells have not been well understood yet. To elucidate the dynamics of the plant TGN, we established transgenic plants expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP)–SYP43, the ortholog of Tlg2/syntaxin16, which is localized to the TGN in yeast and mammalian cells, under the control of the native promoter as a TGN marker. Observation by confocal laser scanning microscopy and super-resolution confocal live imaging microscopy revealed two types of TGN in Arabidopsis root: the GA-TGNs (Golgi-associated TGNs), located on the trans-side of the Golgi apparatus, and the GI-TGNs (Golgi-released independent TGNs), located away from the Golgi apparatus and behaving independently. The GI-TGNs is derived from a population of GA-TGNs by segregation, although the core of the GA-TGN remains even after the generation of the GI-TGN. We further found that the abundance of the GI-TGNs differs between observed tissues. Our results indicate that the dynamic features of the TGN in plant cells differ from those of animal and yeast cells.
!~RES~! We have already reported that TGNs in which GFP-tagged SYP41 (GFP–SYP41) resided are clearly separated from but occasionally found very near the Golgi apparatus, when GFP–SYP41 is transiently expressed in protoplast cells from Arabidopsis cultured cells (CITATION). This result led us to speculate that the TGN might be defined as a separate compartment distinct from the Golgi apparatus in Arabidopsis cells. To exclude the possibility that overexpression by using the 35S promoter and transient expression in the protoplast affected the distribution of GFP–SYP41, we established transgenic Arabidopsis expressing GFP–SYP41, GFP–SYP42 and GYP–SYP43 under the control of their own promoters. SYP41, SYP42 and SYP43 have redundant physiological roles and co-localize on the TGN (CITATION). Because the fluorescence signal of GFP–SYP43 is most prominent under CLSM (confocal laser scanning microscopy) as compared with GFP–SYP41 and GFP–SYP42, the transgenic expressing GFP–SYP43 was used for further observation to reveal the dynamics of the TGN in Arabidopsis. A population of GFP–SYP43 was observed on the plasma membrane in the division and elongation zone of root tissue. Although we cannot conclude whether or not this localization is due to overexpression, this does not affect observations for the TGN dynamics. First, we established transgenic Arabidopsis expressing GFP–SYP43 and ST–mRFP (cytoplasmic and transmembrane domains of sialyl transferase tagged with mRFP; a trans-Golgi marker) to examine the relationship between the TGN and the Golgi apparatus in living cells. Observation under CLSM demonstrated that TGNs labeled with GFP–SYP43 were associated with the trans-Golgi cisternae marked by ST–mRFP in cells of the root division zone (Fig. 1A). Interestingly, this result is inconsistent with that obtained from observations based on transient expression in protoplasts. Next, we observed the TGN structure of the cells in the root elongation zone. As with the root division zone, most of the TGNs labeled with GFP–SYP43 were associated with the trans-Golgi cisternae marked by ST–mRFP (Fig. 1B). However, we also found green fluorescence without red fluorescence (Fig. 1B, magnified image), suggesting that some TGNs exist independently from the Golgi apparatus, as in the case of protoplast cells. Further observation in the root differential zone revealed that TGNs independent from the Golgi apparatus were easily observable (Fig. 1C, arrowheads). Here, we designate the TGN associated with the Golgi apparatus and the TGN independent from the Golgi apparatus as the Golgi-associated TGN (GA-TGN) and the Golgi-released independent TGN (GI-TGN), respectively.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To characterize the GI-TGNs, the number of GI-TGNs in 3–4 cells of each division, elongation and differentiation zone was counted for quantitative analysis. As shown in Fig. 1D, the number of GI-TGNs in the differentiation zone was clearly larger than in the division and elongation zones. GI-TGNs were rarely observed in the division zone. The ratio of GI-TGNs in the differentiation zone was over three times higher than that of the division zone. Next, to investigate the possibility that a trans-Golgi cisterna labeled by ST–mRFP might behave independently from a cis-Golgi cisterna and that the GI-TGNs were observed as the result of dynamic behavior of the GFP–SYP43-labeled TGN in elongation and differentiation zones, we generated transgenic plants expressing GFP–ERD2 (ER retention defective 2 tagged with GFP; a cis-Golgi marker) and ST–mRFP (the trans-Golgi marker), and those expressing GFP–SYP43 and VHAa1–mRFP (another TGN marker). CLSM observation of the transgenic plants expressing ERD2–GFP and ST–mRFP showed that the fluorescence of GFP and mRFP was almost completely co-localized in the division, elongation and differentiation zones of root. Punctate structures with partial overlapping of GFP and mRFP fluorescence were often seen; however, non-overlapping fluorescence patterns were not observed in any types of cells (Fig. 2A). These results indicate that the GI-TGN actually exists separated from the Golgi apparatus, while the cis- and trans-cisternae of the Golgi apparatus behave together at all times.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Then, we examined the transgenic line expressing GFP–SYP43 and VHAa1–mRFP. GFP–SYP43 and VHAa1–mRFP were almost completely co-localized in the division, elongation and differentiation zones of root, and no fluorescence signal from GFP alone or mRFP alone was observed (Fig. 2B). These results suggest that the feature of GI-TGNs described in Fig. 1 is not specific to GFP–SYP43 but represents the nature of the TGN itself in the root cells. Taken together, we conclude that Arabidopsis root contains two types of TGN: the GA-TGN, located on the trans-side of the Golgi apparatus, and the GI-TGN, which does not lie adjacent to the Golgi apparatus and behaves independently. GI-TGN was detected more frequently in the differentiation zone of root. To characterize the GA-TGN and GI-TGN, we investigated the response to brefeldin A (BFA) of the GA-TGN and GI-TGN in the division, elongation and differentiation zones of the root. BFA, an antibiotic compound produced by fungi, is known as a potent inhibitor of guanine nucleotide exchange factors for ARF GTPases (CITATION, CITATION). BFA treatment leads to TGN and endosome aggregation in Arabidopsis root and cotyledon cells (CITATION, CITATION). When Arabidopsis root expressing GFP–SYP43 and ST–mRFP was treated with BFA for 2 h, cells in the division zone showed TGNs labeled with GFP–SYP43 (almost all GA-TGNs) aggregating at the center of the BFA body. In the same cells, Golgi apparatus labeled with ST–mRFP accumulated at the periphery of the TGN accumulation. Quantitative analysis of GFP and mRFP fluorescence clearly demonstrated that the TGN was centrally located in the BFA body (Fig. 3A). Similar results were obtained from observations in the elongation and differentiation zones of root (Fig. 3B, C). Because the GI-TGN, which is marked by an independent GFP signal and not associated with ST–mRFP, was not observed upon BFA treatment even in the differentiation zone, we inferred that the GI-TGN was also contained in the BFA body. These results suggest that the response of the GI-TGN to BFA was similar to that of the GA-TGN in Arabidopsis root, at least under the experimental conditions we employed in this study.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Next, to characterize the difference between the GA-TGN and GI-TGN in more detail, the relationships between the Golgi apparatus and the GA- and GI-TGN were investigated using SCLIM, which enables two-color observation with extremely high speed and sensitivity. The GFP–SYP43/ST–mRFP-expressing plant was observed by SCLIM with optical slices 0.1 µm apart in the z-axis, and 21 images were reconstructed into 3D with deconvolution to achieve high spatial resolution. In the division zone, the Golgi apparatus labeled by ST–mRFP was observed as a flat donut-like structure, and the GA-TGN labeled by GFP–SYP43 was clearly associated with and located at the trans-side end of the Golgi apparatus. The surface of the TGN on the opposite side of the Golgi apparatus seemed to be an irregular structure (Fig. 4A). In the differentiation zone, GI-TGNs were easily observed. Unlike the GA-TGN structure, GI-TGNs, which were obviously not associated with the Golgi apparatus, had a smooth and round shape (Fig. 4B, white arrowheads). In addition, we observed occasional association of GI-TGNs and GA-TGNs (Fig. 4B, yellow arrowheads). These results imply that GI-TGNs exchange materials with GA-TGNs, or GI-TGNs could be generated by maturation from the GA-TGNs. Some small puncta showed only GFP fluorescence without mRFP, but these might be due to background noises.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Here, we address the question of whether GI-TGNs were derived from GA-TGNs or generated de novo. To answer this question, a transgenic plants expressing GFP–SYP43 and ST–mRFP was observed by 3D time-lapse imaging (4D imaging) of SCLIM. From a GA-TGN, whose action was linked to that of the Golgi apparatus (Fig. 5A, yellow arrowheads, time point from 0.0 to 13.2 s; Supplementary Movie S1), a new GI-TGN was generated (Fig. 5A, red arrowheads, time point of 19.8 s; Supplementary Movie S1). Interestingly, a portion of the GA-TGN remained beside the Golgi apparatus (Fig. 5A, orange arrowhead, time point 19.8 s, yellow arrowhead; Supplementary Movie S1). After that, the remaining GA-TGNs and the Golgi apparatus moved together (Fig. 5A, time point from 26.4–46.2 s; Supplementary Movie S1). Fig. 5B show enlarged images of the same event indicating that a GI-TGN forms by budding from a pre-existing GA-TGN. Once the GI-TGN was generated, it moved around freely, independently from the Golgi apparatus (Fig. 5B). We also observed that two GI-TGNs interacted with each other, moved together and eventually separated again (Fig. 5A, white arrowheads; Supplementary Movie S1). Another observation of the generation of GI-TGNs was demonstrated in Fig. 5C and D. These results suggest that GI-TGNs are derived from a population of GA-TGNs by segregation and that they can communicate with each other.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Next, the behavior of a GA-TGN, after giving rise to a GI-TGN, was examined in detail by 4D imaging. As shown in Fig. 6A, we identified the moment when a GI-TGN was generated from a GA-TGN (time points from 17.7 to 20.65 s, white arrowheads). A homotypic interaction of two GA-TGNs was observed earlier (Fig. 6A, red arrowheads). Then, the dynamics of GA-TGNs after segregation (Fig. 6A, time point 20.65 s, white open square) was continuously observed (Fig. 6B; Supplementary Movie S2). Time-lapse images indicated that the intensity of GFP fluorescence gradually increased whereas that of mRFP decreased (Fig. 6B). For quantitative analysis, we compared the total fluorescent intensity of GFP and mRFP in the images shown in Fig. 6B and found that the intensity of the GFP fluorescence from GA-TGN after 120 s of segregation was almost 1.5 times higher than that of the GA-TGN soon after the GI-TGN was generated (Fig. 6C). The decreasing intensity of mRFP from the Golgi apparatus could have resulted from photobleaching. These results imply that the core of the GA-TGN remains even after the generation of the GI-TGN and that the GA-TGN is re-organized by recapturing TGN proteins.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Plants expressing GFP–SYP43 or ST–mRFP have already been reported (CITATION), and plants that express VHAa1–mRFP were gifts from Karin Schumacher (University of Heidelberg, Germany). The plants expressing GFP–SYP43/ST–mRFP or GFP–SYP43/VHAa1–mRFP were generated by crossing. Seeds were sterilized in 1% sodium hypochlorite and 0.05% Tween, rinsed with sterile distilled water three times and sown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium (pH 6.3) supplemented with 2% sucrose, 0.3% phytagel and 1× Gamborg’s vitamins. The plants were incubated for 1 d at 4°C in the dark and cultivated at 23°C under continuous light. We observed cortex cells in the division and elongation zone and epidermal cells (first layer) in the differentiation zone of transgenic plants (5 d after germination). For 2D observation, a confocal laser scanning microscope, LSM780 (Carl Zeiss), was used. For high-resolution 3D or 4D imaging, SCLIM was employed. In the SCLIM system that we developed (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION), an Olympus IX-70 microscope was equipped with an Olympus oil-immersion lens UPlanSApo (×100, NA 1.4), a custom-made super-low-noise and high-speed confocal scanner (Yokogawa Electric), a custom-made spectroscopic filter system, custom-made cooled image intensifiers (Hamamatsu Photonics), and high-speed and high-sensitivity EM-CCD cameras (Hamamatsu Photonics). Data were oversampled and subjected to a deconvolution analysis with Volocity (PerkinElmer) by using the point-spread function optimized for the Yokogawa spinning disk confocal system. Five- to seven-day-old seedlings were incubated in 1 ml of MS medium with 50 µM BFA (Sigma) for 2 h. After treatment, the fluorescence was observed with CLSM (LSM780) as described above.
