!~ABS~! Plant vacuoles play critical roles in development, growth and stress responses. In mature cells, vacuolar membranes (VMs) display several types of structures, which are formed by invagination and folding of VMs into the lumenal side and can gradually move and change shape. Although such VM structures are observed in a broad range of tissue types and plant species, the molecular mechanism underlying their formation and maintenance remains unclear. Here, we report that a novel HEAT-repeat protein, SHOOT GRAVITROPISM6 (SGR6), of Arabidopsis is involved in the control of morphological changes and dynamics of VM structures in endodermal cells, which are the gravity-sensing cells in shoots. SGR6 is a membrane-associated protein that is mainly localized to the VM in stem endodermal cells. The sgr6 mutant stem exhibits a reduced gravitropic response. Higher plants utilize amyloplast sedimentation as a means to sense gravity direction. Amyloplasts are surrounded by VMs in Arabidopsis endodermal cells, and the flexible and dynamic structure of VMs is important for amyloplast sedimentation. We demonstrated that such dynamic features of VMs are gradually lost in sgr6 endodermal cells during a 30 min observation period. Histological analysis revealed that amyloplast sedimentation was impaired in sgr6. Detailed live-cell imaging analyses revealed that the VM structures in sgr6 had severe defects in morphological changes and dynamics. Our results suggest that SGR6 is a novel protein involved in the formation and/or maintenance of invaginated VM structures in gravity-sensing cells.
!~RES~! The sgr6-1 mutant has no obvious morphological abnormalities, except for lateral shoots that elongate horizontally ([pcu020-F1]A). When the inflorescence stem of the WT is gravity stimulated by placing it horizontally, the stem bends 90° upward within 90 min ([pcu020-F1]B). In contrast, the sgr6-1 stem requires 140 min to bend 90° ([pcu020-F1]B), indicating that the sgr6-1 mutant stem exhibits a slower gravitropic response than the WT stem. Because the gravitropic response requires organ growth, we next examined stem growth. The sgr6-1 stem grew as well as the WT stem (Supplementary Fig. S1), indicating that the sgr6-1 gravitropic phenotype is not caused by a growth defect. It has been reported that the sgr6-1 mutant has no significant phenotype for root and hypocotyl gravitropism ([pcu020-B30]). In addition, the sgr6-1 stem and hypocotyl show the same bending pattern as the WT stem and hypocotyl in response to unilateral light, suggesting that sgr6-1 has the ability to grow asymmetrically ([pcu020-B30]). Fig. 1Phenotypes of the shoot gravitropism 6 (sgr6)-1 mutant. (A) Six-week-old plants of the wild type (left) and sgr6-1 (right). Scale bar = 3 cm. (B) Gravitropic phenotype of the wild type (yellow circle) and sgr6-1 (blue circle). Twenty individuals of each genotype were examined. Bars represent the SD. Phenotypes of the shoot gravitropism 6 (sgr6)-1 mutant. (A) Six-week-old plants of the wild type (left) and sgr6-1 (right). Scale bar = 3 cm. (B) Gravitropic phenotype of the wild type (yellow circle) and sgr6-1 (blue circle). Twenty individuals of each genotype were examined. Bars represent the SD. F2 progeny derived from a cross between sgr6-1 [Columbia (Col-0)] and Landsberg erecta (Ler) were used to map SGR6 roughly to chromosome II. After analyzing 446 independent F2 progeny, the locus was narrowed to a region between a polymorphic marker on bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) F13K3 and that on BAC T1J8 ([pcu020-F2]A). We found a single C to T substitution in the open reading frame of At2g36810, resulting in a nonsense mutation at glutamine (Q1171). A 5.1 kb WT At2g36810 cDNA fragment was cloned and fused with green fluorescent protein (GFP) cDNA at its N-terminal end. The fused gene was inserted downstream of the putative promoter fragment (2.9 kb) of At2g36810 and introduced into sgr6-1 plants for a complementation test. The stem of the resulting transgenic plant (SGR6pro:GFP-SGR6/sgr6-1) exhibited a normal lateral shoot growth direction and the primary shoot gravitropic response had kinetics similar to those of the WT ([pcu020-F2]B, C). Fig. 2SHOOT GRAVITROPISM 6 (SGR6) is At2g36810. (A) The SGR6 locus was mapped between the T32F12 and nga168 cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence markers. A nonsense mutation was found at G1171 in the open reading frame (ORF) of At2g36810 in the sgr6-1 mutant. The At2g36810 gene structure is schematically shown; exons are indicated by boxes (white boxes, untranslated regions; black boxes, coding regions) and introns are indicated by lines between boxes. The length of At2g36810, including the promoter region, was approximately 17 kb. (B) Six-week-old sgr6-1 T3 plants harboring the DNA fragments of the At2g36810 putative promoter region and the green fluorescent protein (GFP)-fused cDNA derived from the ORF of At2g36810. Scale bar = 3 cm. (C) Gravitropic phenotype of the plant shown in (B) (blue open circle). Twenty individuals of each genotype were examined. Bars represent the SD. (D) SGR6 expression pattern in inflorescence stems. Scale bar = 100 µm. (E) Gravitropic phenotype of two independent sgr6-1 T3 lines harboring the SCRpro:GFP-SGR6 DNA fragment. At least 14 individuals of each genotype were examined. Bars represent the SD. SHOOT GRAVITROPISM 6 (SGR6) is At2g36810. (A) The SGR6 locus was mapped between the T32F12 and nga168 cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence markers. A nonsense mutation was found at G1171 in the open reading frame (ORF) of At2g36810 in the sgr6-1 mutant. The At2g36810 gene structure is schematically shown; exons are indicated by boxes (white boxes, untranslated regions; black boxes, coding regions) and introns are indicated by lines between boxes. The length of At2g36810, including the promoter region, was approximately 17 kb. (B) Six-week-old sgr6-1 T3 plants harboring the DNA fragments of the At2g36810 putative promoter region and the green fluorescent protein (GFP)-fused cDNA derived from the ORF of At2g36810. Scale bar = 3 cm. (C) Gravitropic phenotype of the plant shown in (B) (blue open circle). Twenty individuals of each genotype were examined. Bars represent the SD. (D) SGR6 expression pattern in inflorescence stems. Scale bar = 100 µm. (E) Gravitropic phenotype of two independent sgr6-1 T3 lines harboring the SCRpro:GFP-SGR6 DNA fragment. At least 14 individuals of each genotype were examined. Bars represent the SD. We also isolated another three sgr6 alleles through several independent mutant screening procedures, such as sgr6-2 (Col-0 background), sgr6-3 and sgr6-4 (Ler background) (Supplementary Fig. S2). sgr6-2 had a G to TT substitution at the junction of the second intron and the third exon, causing a frameshift and a stop codon at asparagine (A45) (Supplementary Fig. S3). sgr6-3 had a single C to T substitution, resulting in a nonsense mutation at glutamine (Q1547) (Supplementary Fig. S3). sgr6-4 had an ATTTCT to CC substitution that caused a frameshift at serine (S220), resulting in substitutions of eight amino acids and a stop codon (Supplementary Fig. S3). Immunoblot analysis revealed that the SGR6 protein was not detected in sgr6-1, sgr6-2 or sgr6-4 (Supplementary Fig. S4), suggesting that sgr6-1, sgr6-2 and sgr6-4 are null alleles. In contrast, sgr6-3 produced a truncated form of SGR6, as predicted by its molecular lesion (Supplementary Fig. S4). The greatly reduced amount of protein in sgr6-3 suggested that the mutation may have affected the protein stability or protein synthesis efficiency. The sgr6-3 gravitropic response was comparable with that of sgr6-4 (Supplementary Fig. S2, 2F), suggesting that sgr6-3 is also a loss-of-function mutation. Taken together, these results demonstrate that SGR6 is At2g36810. At2g36810 is a single gene in the Arabidopsis genome that encodes a protein of 1,703 amino acids with no functional or structural domain, except for 10 HEAT repeats (http://pfam.sanger.ac.uk/) (Supplementary Fig. S5A). As a result of a BLAST search (query: full-length amino acidic sequence of SGR6), SGR6 homologous genes were found in genomes of several animals and plants (Supplementary Fig. S5B, C); however, no homolog was found in yeast. Northern blot analysis suggested that SGR6 expression in roots, hypocotyls and stems was higher than that in other organs (Supplementary Fig. S6B). Moreover, reverse transcription–PCR (RT–PCR) analysis using total RNA derived from various organs of WT plants suggested that SGR6 was expressed in all organs examined, although the expression levels varied (Supplementary Fig. S6A). Transgenic plants that expressed β-glucuronidase (GUS) under the control of the SGR6 promoter were generated to investigate the SGR6 expression pattern at the tissue level. The SGR6 promoter showed strong activity in the root cap of primary roots, the vascular tissues of roots, hypocotyls and cotyledons, and the guard cells of cotyledons (Supplementary Fig. S6C–G). In the stem of the transgenic plants, SGR6 promoter activity was observed in the epidermis, endodermis, phloem, developing metaxylem and interfascicular cells ([pcu020-F2]D). Because the endodermis is the major site for gravity sensing in the stem, we next investigated the relationship between expression in the endodermis and function of SGR6 during shoot gravitropism. Two independent T3 transgenic plants that expressed GFP–SGR6 under the control of the endodermis-specific SCARECROW (SCR) promoter exhibited a WT-like gravitropic response ([pcu020-F2]E), indicating that the function of SGR6 in the endodermis is sufficient for a normal gravitropic response and that SGR6 functions in the endodermis for shoot gravitropism. Endodermal cells in stems contain a number of amyloplasts, and sedimentation of amyloplasts in the direction of gravity is important for gravity sensing. First, we used a histological method to evaluate amyloplast sedimentation. The stem segments were fixed with the direction of gravity maintained constant, embedded and sectioned ([pcu020-F3]A). An endodermal cell was partitioned into four regions for quantitative analysis ([pcu020-F3]B), and the number of amyloplasts in each region was counted for 50 cells. Almost all amyloplasts in WT endodermal cells were localized at block A, the bottom side of the cell ([pcu020-F3]C). In contrast, the ratio of amyloplasts in block A of sgr6-1 endodermal cells was significantly lower and the ratios in blocks B and C were higher than those of the WT. Fig. 3Amyloplast sedimentation in endodermal cells. (A) Inflorescence stems (2–3 cm below the shoot apex) of wild type and shoot gravitropism 6 (sgr6)-1 mutant plants were cut and fixed with the direction of gravity maintained. Images are endodermal cells in longitudinal sections of cut stems. White arrows indicate amyloplasts. ‘g’ and a black arrow indicate the direction of gravity. (B) An endodermal cell was partitioned into four blocks for quantitative analysis (A, B, C and D from the lowest). (C) The number of amyloplasts in each block of 50 cells was counted, and the ratio of the number was calculated. Three individual stems of each genotype were analyzed. Bars represent the SDs. Asterisks indicate P-values of Student’s t-test (*P < 0.05). (D, E) Wild-type (D) and sgr6-1 (E) plants were inverted and incubated for 0, 10, 20 or 40 min. After the incubation, the stems were cut and fixed with the direction of gravity maintained. The ratio of amyloplasts was calculated as in (C). Three individual stems of each genotype were analyzed. Bars represent the SDs. Asterisks indicate P-values of Student’s t-test (*P < 0.05; **P < 0.01). Amyloplast sedimentation in endodermal cells. (A) Inflorescence stems (2–3 cm below the shoot apex) of wild type and shoot gravitropism 6 (sgr6)-1 mutant plants were cut and fixed with the direction of gravity maintained. Images are endodermal cells in longitudinal sections of cut stems. White arrows indicate amyloplasts. ‘g’ and a black arrow indicate the direction of gravity. (B) An endodermal cell was partitioned into four blocks for quantitative analysis (A, B, C and D from the lowest). (C) The number of amyloplasts in each block of 50 cells was counted, and the ratio of the number was calculated. Three individual stems of each genotype were analyzed. Bars represent the SDs. Asterisks indicate P-values of Student’s t-test (*P < 0.05). (D, E) Wild-type (D) and sgr6-1 (E) plants were inverted and incubated for 0, 10, 20 or 40 min. After the incubation, the stems were cut and fixed with the direction of gravity maintained. The ratio of amyloplasts was calculated as in (C). Three individual stems of each genotype were analyzed. Bars represent the SDs. Asterisks indicate P-values of Student’s t-test (*P < 0.05; **P < 0.01). We inverted the plants at an angle of 180° to investigate amyloplast sedimentation using this method. The uppermost region in the endodermal cells of inverted plants was A, while the lowermost region was D. After inversion, the stems were immediately cut and fixed with the new gravity direction maintained constant. Amyloplasts were almost equally localized over four blocks in the endodermal cells of inverted WT stems ([pcu020-F3]D, 0 min). Following this, the stems were incubated for 10, 20 or 40 min in the dark after inversion, cut and fixed. The ratios of block A, B and C gradually decreased in the WT as the incubation time increased, whereas the ratio of block D increased ([pcu020-F3]D). In contrast, the ratio of each block in sgr6-1 did not change dramatically, as seen in the WT ([pcu020-F3]E). This result suggests that SGR6 is involved in amyloplast sedimentation in the direction of gravity. According to SOSUI (http://bp.nuap.nagoya-u.ac.jp/sosui/), SGR6 is predicted to have no transmembrane domain. Moreover, SGR6 has no signal sequence (SignalP 4.1 Server, http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/SignalP-4.1/) and would not enter the lumenal side of organelles. A fractionation experiment revealed that most SGR6 existed in the membrane fraction ([pcu020-F4]A). We next examined the SGR6 solubilization conditions. We found that SGR6 was not solubilized in high salt, urea or alkaline buffer at room temperature (Supplementary Fig. S7). However, part of SGR6 was solubilized by 1% Triton X-100 or 2% SDS at room temperature. These results suggest the possibility that SGR6 is rigidly associated with the membrane. Fig. 4SHOOT GRAVITROPISM 6 (SGR6) is mainly localized to the vacuolar membrane (VM). (A) Subfractionation by ultracentrifugation. ZIG was detected as the control of the integral membrane protein. (B) Intracellular localization of SGR6. The endodermal cells in stems of SGR6pro:GFP-SGR6 and VAM3pro:mRFP-VAM3/sgr6-1 vam3-1 were observed. Green, green fluorescent protein (GFP) fluorescence; red, red fluorescent protein (RFP) fluorescence. Asterisks indicate autofluorescence of Chl from plastids. d, e and f are insets in a, b and c, respectively. Scale bar = 10 µm. SHOOT GRAVITROPISM 6 (SGR6) is mainly localized to the vacuolar membrane (VM). (A) Subfractionation by ultracentrifugation. ZIG was detected as the control of the integral membrane protein. (B) Intracellular localization of SGR6. The endodermal cells in stems of SGR6pro:GFP-SGR6 and VAM3pro:mRFP-VAM3/sgr6-1 vam3-1 were observed. Green, green fluorescent protein (GFP) fluorescence; red, red fluorescent protein (RFP) fluorescence. Asterisks indicate autofluorescence of Chl from plastids. d, e and f are insets in a, b and c, respectively. Scale bar = 10 µm. We first observed the endodermal cells of SGR6pro:GFP-SGR6/sgr6-1, the transgenic plant generated for the complementation test, to investigate which membrane existed in SGR6. The GFP signal was spotty along the periphery of the cells (Supplementary Fig. S8A, white arrows) and circular within the cells (Supplementary Fig. S8A, blue arrow). Moreover, relatively large dot-like signals occasionally emerged during the observations (Supplementary Fig. S8A, yellow arrow). Because Chl autofluorescence from amyloplasts was detected outside the peripheral GFP signal (Supplementary Fig. S8B, white arrow), GFP–SGR6 did not seem to exist on the plasma membrane. Moreover, it was difficult to determine whether GFP–SGR6 existed near the amyloplasts owing to Chl autofluorescence from amyloplasts. We crossed SGR6pro:GFP-SGR6/sgr6-1 with several transgenic plants as follows: SCRpro:mRFP-er [the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) localization signal sequence]/WT (a marker line for the ER), SCRpro:ARA6-mRFP/WT (a marker line for the ARA6-positive endosome), SCRpro: mRFP-ARA7/WT (a marker line for the ARA7-positive endosome) and VAM3pro:mRFP-VAM3/vam3-1 (a marker line for the vacuole) ([pcu020-B27]) and generated plants that harbored homozygous forms of the transgenes and the sgr6-1 mutation. We first observed the endodermal cells of a plant derived from a cross between SGR6pro:GFP-SGR6/sgr6-1 and VAM3pro:mRFP-VAM3/vam3-1. The GFP–SGR6 signals along the cell periphery overlapped with those of monomeric red fluorescent protein (mRFP)–VAM3 ([pcu020-F4]B, a–c). Moreover, the GFP signal within the cells merged with the invaginated structure of VM ([pcu020-F4]B, d–f). Therefore, the circular form of the GFP–SGR6 signal shown in Supplementary Fig. S8A was thought to exist along the invaginated structure of the VM. The endodermal cell shown in Supplementary Fig. S9 is 30 s after the cell in [pcu020-F4]B. A large dot-like SGR6 GFP signal was observed in the cell and merged with the VAM3 mRFP signal (Supplementary Fig. S9). THe ER exists adjacent to the VM in mature plant cells ([pcu020-B6]). We next observed the endodermal cells of plants derived from a cross between SGR6pro:GFP-SGR6/sgr6-1 and SCRpro:mRFP-er/WT. Peripheral and circular GFP signals were observed in the endodermal cells; however, the signals did not merge with the mRFP signal from the ER (Supplementary Fig. S10). The VAM3/SYP22 signal that merged with that of SGR6 exists not only with the VM but also with the PVC ([pcu020-B23]). To examine whether the GFP–SGR6 dot-like signal was localized to the PVC, we observed endodermal cells of plants derived from a cross between SGR6pro:GFP-SGR6/sgr6-1 and SCRpro:ARA6-mRFP/WT or SCRpro: mRFP-ARA7/WT. However, the dot-like signal did not merge with such an organelle marker (Supplementary Figs. S11, S12). These results suggest that GFP–SGR6 is mainly localized to the VM. Based on the localization to the VM, we assumed that SGR6 is involved in amyloplast sedimentation through modulating the VM function(s). Consistently, genetic analyses of several sgr mutants and zig suppressor mutants have revealed that flexible VM structures are important for amyloplast sedimentation ([pcu020-B15], [pcu020-B14], [pcu020-B7]). We next observed the endodermis of a transgenic plant that expresses GFP–tonoplast intrinsic protein-γ (γ-TIP), a marker for lytic vacuoles, under control of the SCR promoter ([pcu020-B21]). A longitudinally cut stem segment was allowed to stand for 15 min on a vertical stage, and observations of each sample were finished within the next 15 min. Two types of endodermal cells were observed in both genotypes at a time point within 5–10 min after stem cutting, i.e. cells with invaginated VM structures and moving amyloplasts and those with simple VM structures and static amyloplasts ([pcu020-F5]A; Supplementary Movies S1, S2). VMs in approximately 90% of WT endodermal cells showed invaginated structures, whereas they were observed in only 20% of sgr6-1 endodermal cells at the same time point ([pcu020-F5]B, C). Amyloplasts rarely moved in the endodermal cells of both genotypes with no invaginated VM structures. Approximately 80% of sgr6-1 endodermal cells harbored mobility-less vacuoles and amyloplasts, and such a status of the vacuoles and amyloplasts lasted until 30 min after cutting the stem (data not shown). Following this, we focused on the endodermal cells containing invaginated VM structures and amyloplasts during a 2 min time window within 5–10 min after cutting the stem ([pcu020-F5]D, E; Supplementary Movies S3, S4). Subsequently, the samples were held on the vertical stage and observed during a 2 min time window within 25–30 min after cutting the stems ([pcu020-F5]F, G; Supplementary Movies S5, S6). The ratio of mobile amyloplasts per cell at 25–30 min after cutting the WT stem decreased significantly compared with that at 5–10 min after cutting ([pcu020-F5]H). However, all endodermal cells maintained invaginated VM structures in the WT stem ([pcu020-F5]I). In contrast, the ratio of mobile amyloplasts per cell in sgr6-1 decreased drastically ([pcu020-F5]H), and approximately 60% of endodermal cells lost invaginated VM structures 25–30 min after stem cutting ([pcu020-F5]I), indicating that VM structure in sgr6-1 is sensitive to the sample preparation process including stem cutting. Fig. 5Dynamic vacuolar membrane (VM) structures and amyloplast dynamics in endodermal cells of cut stems. The endodermal cells of the transgenic plant expressing green fluorescent protein–tonoplast intrinsic protein-γ (GFP–γ-TIP), a lytic vacuole marker, under control of the SCARECROW (SCR) promoter, were observed using a vertical microscope. Green, GFP fluorescence; red, autofluorescence of Chl from plastids. (A) Endodermal cells that show or do not show invaginated VM structures and amyloplast dynamics at a time point within 5–10 min after cutting the stem. (B, C) Number of endodermal cells that show or do not show invaginated VM structures at a time point within 5–10 min after cutting the stem of the wild type (B) and sgr6-1 (C). At least eight stem segments of each genotype were observed. (D, E) Confocal images of wild-type (D) and sgr6-1 (E) endodermal cells observed for 2 min within 5–10 min after cutting the stem were aligned at approximately 30 s intervals. (F, G) Confocal images of wild-type (F) and sgr6-1 (G) endodermal cells observed for 2 min within 25–30 min after cutting the stem were aligned at approximately 30 s intervals. (H) The ratio of amyloplasts that moved along the x- or y-axis or that rotated during the 2 min observation. Endodermal cells that harbor invaginated VM structures at the starting point of observation within 5–10 min after cutting the stem were analyzed. At least 16 stem segments of each genotype were observed. Statistical differences between 5–10 min and 25–30 min were detected using Student’s t-test (**P < 0.01). Bars represent the SEs. (I) Number of endodermal cells that maintained invaginated VM structures during the 30 min observation. ‘g’ and a black arrow indicate the direction of gravity. Scale bars = 10 µm. Dynamic vacuolar membrane (VM) structures and amyloplast dynamics in endodermal cells of cut stems. The endodermal cells of the transgenic plant expressing green fluorescent protein–tonoplast intrinsic protein-γ (GFP–γ-TIP), a lytic vacuole marker, under control of the SCARECROW (SCR) promoter, were observed using a vertical microscope. Green, GFP fluorescence; red, autofluorescence of Chl from plastids. (A) Endodermal cells that show or do not show invaginated VM structures and amyloplast dynamics at a time point within 5–10 min after cutting the stem. (B, C) Number of endodermal cells that show or do not show invaginated VM structures at a time point within 5–10 min after cutting the stem of the wild type (B) and sgr6-1 (C). At least eight stem segments of each genotype were observed. (D, E) Confocal images of wild-type (D) and sgr6-1 (E) endodermal cells observed for 2 min within 5–10 min after cutting the stem were aligned at approximately 30 s intervals. (F, G) Confocal images of wild-type (F) and sgr6-1 (G) endodermal cells observed for 2 min within 25–30 min after cutting the stem were aligned at approximately 30 s intervals. (H) The ratio of amyloplasts that moved along the x- or y-axis or that rotated during the 2 min observation. Endodermal cells that harbor invaginated VM structures at the starting point of observation within 5–10 min after cutting the stem were analyzed. At least 16 stem segments of each genotype were observed. Statistical differences between 5–10 min and 25–30 min were detected using Student’s t-test (**P < 0.01). Bars represent the SEs. (I) Number of endodermal cells that maintained invaginated VM structures during the 30 min observation. ‘g’ and a black arrow indicate the direction of gravity. Scale bars = 10 µm. To observe the change in VM structures over time in more detail, the endodermal cells containing invaginated VM structures were placed horizontally and observed by spinning disk confocal microscopy. The 4D imaging of endodermal cells 10–20 min after cutting the stem showed that several VM structures were newly formed within the lumen ([pcu020-F6]A, blue arrow) and changed shape ([pcu020-F6]A, yellow arrows). Invaginated VM structures were emerged and changed shape one after another during the observations (Supplementary Movie S7). In contrast, sgr6-1 VM structures were quite different from those of the WT, i.e multiple layers of VMs were juxtaposed to each other ([pcu020-F6]B, white arrows). VM structures and amyloplasts seemed gradually to lose their flexibility and mobility during the observation in sgr6-1 (Supplementary Movie S8). Moreover, VM structures with less motility gradually changed into numerous vesicular-like VM structures 20–30 min after cutting the stem ([pcu020-F6]C, yellow arrows, Supplementary Movies S9, S10), whereas wild-type VM structures 30 min after cutting the stem differ little from those 10–20 min after cutting (data not shown). These results indicate that sgr6-1 affects the proper formation and morphological changes in VM structures and causes aberrant vesicular-like VM structures. Taken together, we conclude that SGR6 may act on formation and/or maintenance of invaginated VM structures and indirectly modulates amyloplast dynamics in endodermal cells. Fig. 6Four-dimensional imaging of vacuolar membrane (VM) structures in endodermal cells. The endodermal cells of the transgenic plant expressing green fluorescent protein–tonoplast intrinsic protein-γ (GFP–γ-TIP), a lytic vacuole marker, under control of the SCR promoter, were observed using a spinning disk confocal microscopy. (A) Wild-type cell. Confocal images taken at 20 s intervals within 10–20 min after cutting the stem are aligned. Blue and yellow arrows indicate newly formed VM structures and dramatically changing VM structures, respectively. (B) sgr6-1 cells. Confocal images taken at 25 s intervals within 10–20 min after cutting the stem are aligned. White arrows indicate abnormally folded VM structures. (C) sgr6-1 cell. Confocal image taken 30 min after cutting the stem. Numerous vesicle-like VM structures have emerged. Yellow arrows indicate aberrant vesicle-like VM structures. Green, GFP; red, autofluorescence of Chl from plastids. Scale bars = 10 µm. Four-dimensional imaging of vacuolar membrane (VM) structures in endodermal cells. The endodermal cells of the transgenic plant expressing green fluorescent protein–tonoplast intrinsic protein-γ (GFP–γ-TIP), a lytic vacuole marker, under control of the SCR promoter, were observed using a spinning disk confocal microscopy. (A) Wild-type cell. Confocal images taken at 20 s intervals within 10–20 min after cutting the stem are aligned. Blue and yellow arrows indicate newly formed VM structures and dramatically changing VM structures, respectively. (B) sgr6-1 cells. Confocal images taken at 25 s intervals within 10–20 min after cutting the stem are aligned. White arrows indicate abnormally folded VM structures. (C) sgr6-1 cell. Confocal image taken 30 min after cutting the stem. Numerous vesicle-like VM structures have emerged. Yellow arrows indicate aberrant vesicle-like VM structures. Green, GFP; red, autofluorescence of Chl from plastids. Scale bars = 10 µm.
!~MM~! The Col-0 or Ler accessions of A. thaliana (L.) Heynh. were used as the WT. sgr6-1 and sgr6-2 were isolated from an M2 population of Col-0 seeds mutagenized with ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS) and γ-rays, respectively. sgr6-3 and sgr6-4 were isolated from an M2 population of Ler seeds mutagenized with EMS and γ-rays, respectively. Seeds were sterilized with 5% sodium hypochlorite solution and then plated on Murashige–Skoog plates at 4°C for 2 d. Seedlings were transplanted and grown on soil (mixture of vermiculite from Nittai and Metromix G550 and Sun Gro Horticulture covered with Ube Perlite Type I from Ube Kosan) under constant white light at 23°C. Intact 5-week-old plants, whose primary inflorescence stems were 5–8 cm in length, were horizontally placed under non-directional dim light at 23°C to examine the gravitropic response of the stems. Photographs were taken at the indicated times. The stem curvature was measured on digital images using ImageJ (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/) as the angle formed between the growing direction of the apex and the horizontal baseline. We first isolated F2 progeny from a cross between Ler and sgr6-1, which contained a homologous sgr6-1 mutation and exhibited an obvious sgr6-1 phenotype. DNA was prepared from approximately 2,116 F2 progeny, and SGR6 was localized to chromosome II. We prepared cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence markers that recognized polymorphisms between Col and Ler for fine-scale mapping based on the information provided by The Arabidopsis Information Resource. A 2.9 kb genomic DNA fragment of the At2g36810 putative promoter region was amplified by PCR (primer set: SGR6pro_F, SGR6pro_R) and cloned into pCR-BluntII-TOPO (Invitrogen) for complementation analysis. Total RNA was isolated from inflorescence stems using the RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen). cDNAs were synthesized using SuperScript II reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen). SGR6 cDNA was amplified by PCR (primer set: cSGR6_F, cSGR6_R) using the synthesized cDNAs as templates and then cloned into the XbaI–SmaI site in the pHSG399 multicloning site. GFP was fused at the N-terminus of SGR6 cDNA on pHSG399. The resulting GFP-SGR6 fragment was cut and inserted into the SalI–SmaI site downstream of the putative At2g36810 promoter or the SCR promoter that was already subcloned into HindIII in the multicloning site of the pBI binary vector ([pcu020-B12]). The putative At2g36810 promoter fragment was amplified by PCR (primer set: promoter SGR6 F, promoter SGR6 R) and inserted into the SalI–BamHI site upstream of uidA in pBI101 for expression pattern analysis ([pcu020-B12]). The DNA sequence of each construct was confirmed by sequencing. The resulting constructs were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 (pMP90) and then introduced into Col-0 or sgr6-1 plants using the floral dip method ([pcu020-B3]). T1 plants were selected for resistance against kanamycin (30 µg ml−1). The primer sequences used are indicated in Supplementary Table S1. Tissues were fixed in 90% (v/v) ice-cold acetone for 30 min and incubated in GUS staining solution [100 mM sodium phosphate, pH 7.0, 10 mM EDTA, 5 mM potassium ferricyanide, 5 mM potassium ferrocyanide, 0.1% (v/v) TritonX-100 and 0.52 mg ml−1 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-glucuronic acid] for 16 h at 37°C to detect GUS activity in the transgenic plants (SGR6pro:GUS) described above. After rinsing in 70% ethanol for 15 min, the tissues were cleared with a chloral hydrate–glycerol–water solution (8 g of chloral hydrate, 1 ml of glycerol and 2 ml of water) and observed for GUS staining under a light microscope. GUS-stained inflorescence stems were dehydrated in a graded ethanol series (30, 50, 70, 90 and 100%), embedded in Technovit 7100 (Heraeus Kulzery), and sectioned with a microtome for histological analyses. Stem segments (2–3 cm below the apex) were fixed, embedded in Technovit7100, and sectioned as described previously to analyze amyloplast localization ([pcu020-B12]). The plants were inverted at an angle of 180° and incubated for 0, 10, 20 or 40 min under non-directional dim light at 23°C to evaluate amyloplast sedimentation. Following this, the stems were cut and fixed with the direction of gravity maintained constant. The subsequent procedure was the same as that described above. Inflorescence stem segments (2–3 cm below the shoot apex) were excised from 5-week-old plants and sectioned longitudinally and manually. Fluorescence imaging of VM structures in endodermal cells with the direction of gravity maintained constant was performed as described previously ([pcu020-B13]) using a vertical stage confocal microscope (model BX50; Olympus) equipped with an oil-immersion objective (PlanApo N 60×/1.42NA, Olympus). Confocal images were taken at approximately 4 s intervals for 2 min and converted into a 32× movie. CLSM images were obtained (FV1000; Olympus) for subcellular localization analysis of SGR6. GFP and mRFP fluorescence was detected with 497–517 and 592–622 nm spectral settings, respectively, following 488 or 543 nm excitation. We used an all-in-one type confocal laser scanning microscope system, which includes a spinning disk-type scanner and Electron Multiplying CCD (CellVoyager CV1000; Yokogawa) for 4D imaging of VM structures in endodermal cells. GFP fluorescence and Chl autofluorescence were detected with 520–535 and 617–673 nm spectral settings, respectively, following 488 nm excitation. Twenty images of WT cells along the z-axis were obtained for 20 s, and imaging was repeated 30 times (10 min in total). Twenty-five images of sgr6-1 cells along the z-axis were obtained for 25 s, and imaging was repeated 25 times (10.4 min in total). The 20 and 25 images at each time point were combined, and the series of 30 and 25 images were converted into 120× and 125× movies, respectively, using ImageJ (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/).
