!~ABS~! Balancing repair and degradation is essential for maintaining organellar and cellular homeostasis. Peroxisomes are ubiquitous organelles in eukaryotic cells that play pivotal roles in cell survival. However, the quality control mechanism used to maintain peroxisomes is unclear. Here, we demonstrate that LON protease 2 (LON2), which is encoded by ABERRANT PEROXISOME MORPHOLOGY 10 (APEM10), is responsible for the functional transition of peroxisomes with autophagy. The Arabidopsis apem10 mutant displayed accelerated peroxisome degradation and a dramatically reduced number of peroxisomes. LON2 deficiency caused enhanced peroxisome degradation by autophagy, and peroxisomal proteins accumulated in the cytosol due to a decrease in the number of peroxisomes. We also show the proteolytic consequence of LON2 for the degradation of peroxisomal proteins, and we demonstrated that unnecessary proteins are eliminated by LON2- and autophagy-dependent degradation pathways during the functional transition of peroxisomes. LON2 plays dual roles as an ATP-dependent protease and a chaperone. We show that the chaperone domain of LON2 is essential for the suppression of autophagy, whereas its peptidase domain interferes with this chaperone function, indicating that intramolecular modulation between the proteolysis and chaperone functions of LON2 regulates degradation of peroxisomes by autophagy.
!~RES~! Peroxisomes have specialized functions depending on the organism or organ, and their functions adapt to environmental and developmental cues in plant cells (CITATION). To better understand this process, we previously isolated a number of peroxisome mutants, the apem mutants, based on their different pattern of GFP fluorescence from that of the parent plant expressing the peroxisome marker GFP–PTS1 (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION), in which GFP fluorescence is observed as punctate peroxisomal signals in most cells (Fig. 2A). One apem mutant, apem10, showed a decrease of punctate GFP signals and accumulation of GFP fluorescence in the cytosol. These phenotypes were not observed in young tissues such as emerging new leaves and root tips, but were observed in mature tissues including fully expanded leaves, the upper parts of roots, and root caps (Fig. 2A). In addition, 4- to 5-week-old apem10 mutants contained enlarged peroxisomes, whose maximum diameter was 20 µm (Fig. 2B, C). The appearance of the apem10 phenotype depended on the growth conditions; nitrogen depletion caused severe cytosolic GFP accumulation even in emerging new leaves, and high CO2 conditions (1% CO2), in which the photorespiratory pathway did not function, suppressed the enlargement of peroxisomes in apem10 (Supplementary Fig. S1). Enlarged peroxisomes frequently contained a region not visualized with GFP (Fig. 2C). Electron microscopic observation showed that enlarged peroxisomes contained electron-dense regions along the inner peroxisomal periphery (Fig. 2D), and immunogold labeling with antibodies against GFP revealed that gold particles rarely localized to electron-dense regions, although they normally localized to non-electron-dense regions of peroxisomes (Fig. 2E), which is in good agreement with the GFP fluorescence results. Oxidized peroxisomes accumulate inactivated CAT, a peroxisomal enzyme, and such aggregates are observed as electron-dense regions (CITATION). Gold particles conjugated with antibodies against CAT localized to electron-dense regions, indicating that abnormal CAT accumulates in apem10 (Fig. 2E). These results suggest that APEM10 plays an important role in the number and morphology of peroxisomes.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Map-based cloning identified the APEM10 locus between the MPL12 and K14A3 BAC (bacterial artificial chromosome) clones on chromosome 5, which contains 106 predicted genes. We found a single nucleotide substitution of C to T in the fourth exon of At5g47040, which is annotated as Lon protease 2 (LON2). This mutation causes the substitution of Gln144 with a stop codon (Q144stop) (Fig. 3A). A transformant harboring a genomic DNA fragment bearing At5g47040 showed numerous punctate GFP-fluorescent spots (Fig. 3B). This result demonstrates that At5g47040 expression is sufficient to rescue the apem10 phenotype. An F1 progeny of a cross between apem10 and the lon2-1 T-DNA insertion line showed GFP accumulation in the cytosol, like apem10, indicating that apem10 and lon2-1 are allelic (Fig. 3C). These results demonstrate that APEM10 is At5g47040/LON2.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] LON proteases belong to the AAA+ (ATPases associated with various cellular activities) superfamily and are found in bacteria and eukaryotic organelles. Arabidopsis LON2 has 888 amino acid residues and is a typical LON protease, which consists of a conserved LON N-terminal domain, an AAA+ ATPase domain with typical Walker A and B motifs, and a peptidase domain at the C-terminus (CITATION, CITATION). LON2 has a C-terminal tripeptide with SKL as the canonical peroxisomal targeting signal 1 (PTS1), and a previous proteomic analysis has identified LON2 in Arabidopsis peroxisomes (CITATION). Observation of transgenic plants expressing GFP-LON2 and mRFP1-PTS1 as a peroxisomal marker showed that GFP fluorescence was detected as punctate signals, which merged with monomeric red fluorescent protein (mRFP)–PTS1 (Fig. 4A). This result is consistent with the data from proteomic analysis. We separated peroxisome-rich fractions by the subcellular fractionation method (CITATION) and subjected the fractions to immunoblot analysis (Fig. 4B). A peroxisomal protein, hydroxypyruvate reductase (HPR), was detected mainly in the P1 fraction, with a small amount detected in the P8 fraction. Thus, peroxisomes are considered to be accumulated mainly in the P1 fraction. Some matrix proteins, such as HPR, were detected in the S100 fraction containing the cytosol and vacuole, because such proteins leaked from broken peroxisomes during organelle preparation (Fig. 4B). LON2 was mainly detected in P1, with a small amount detected in the P8 and S100 fractions (Fig. 4B). This LON2 distribution pattern suggests that LON2 is localized to peroxisomes, confirming the fluorescence pattern of GFP–LON2. To examine the detailed suborganellar localization of LON2 protein, peroxisomes in the P1–P8 fraction were resuspended in low-salt buffer, high-salt buffer and alkaline solution buffer. The peroxisomal membrane protein PEX14 was found in the insoluble fraction even after treatment with alkaline solution. However, the matrix protein HPR was dissolved in low-salt buffer, high-salt buffer and alkaline solution (Fig. 4C). LON2 protein is insoluble in low-salt buffer, slightly soluble in high-salt buffer and soluble in alkaline solution (Fig. 4C). In addition, LON2 in intact peroxisomes is sensitive to digestion with proteinase K in the presence of Triton X-100 (Fig. 4D). Similarly, GFP–PTS1 protein, which is a peroxisomal matrix protein, is degraded with a lower concentration of proteinase K in the presence of Triton X-100 (Fig. 4D). These results suggest that LON2 is a peripheral membrane protein, which associates with the membrane from the matrix side.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To clarify whether LON2 affects the accumulation of peroxisomal proteins, we compared the accumulation levels of peroxisomal proteins in protein extracts from emerging new leaves vs. expanded leaves because the apem10 phenotype became more noticeable as the tissues grew older (Fig. 2A). The amount of peroxisomal membrane protein PEX14, long-chain acyl-CoA synthetase 6 (LACS6) and peroxisomal membrane protein 38 (PMP38), but not peroxisomal ascorbate peroxidase (pAPX), dramatically decreased in the apem10 mutant (Fig. 5A). The decrease in peroxisomal membrane protein levels was more pronounced in expanded leaves than in emerging leaves in apem10. However, there was no significant difference in the accumulation of PEX5, the receptor required for peroxisomal protein import, and peroxisomal matrix proteins (such as CAT, HPR and GFP–PTS1) in apem10 compared with wild-type (WT) plants. In apem10, GFP–PTS1 proteins in the cytosol were observed (Fig. 2A), so it is possible that other matrix proteins also accumulate in the cytosol. In addition, the low levels of peroxisomal membrane proteins suggest a decrease in peroxisome number. Therefore, we performed indirect immunostaining using antibodies against pAPX to detect peroxisomes and/or peroxisome ghosts. The results revealed that the number of vesicles labeled with pAPX antibodies decreased and pAPX signals were dispersed in the cytosol or in cellular compartments, which may be subdomains of the rough ER (Fig. 5B) (CITATION). However, the expression of PEX14 was not lower in apem10 than in the WT (Supplementary Fig. S2), supporting the notion that the decrease in the amount of PEX14 in the apem10 mutant was caused by degradation of peroxisomes rather than by down-regulation of gene expression. These results, along with the observation of the decrease in punctate GFP signals in the apem10 mutant (Fig. 2A), suggest that peroxisomes might be degraded in the apem10 mutant.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Previous studies have shown that oxidized or excess peroxisomes are degraded by autophagy in yeast, mammals and plants (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). To clarify whether the number of peroxisomes in apem10 is reduced by autophagy, we generated a double mutant by crossing apem10 with peroxisome unusual positioning 1 (peup1), in which peroxisome degradation is arrested due to the defect of autophagy-related 2 (ATG2) (CITATION). In the apem10 peup1 double mutant, cytosolic GFP fluorescence disappeared and the peroxisome number increased compared with apem10 (Fig. 5C). The aggregation of peroxisomes was frequently observed, which also occurs in peup1 (in which oxidized peroxisomes accumulate as aggregates) (CITATION). As the peroxisome number increased in the double mutant, the amount of PEX14 also increased to the level of the WT (Fig. 5D). Additionally, growth arrest in apem10, which was already reported in a previous study (CITATION), was rescued in the double mutant (Supplementary Fig. S3). Mutants defective in autophagy-related genes show an early senescence phenotype, especially under nutrient-deficient conditions. Similarly, the double mutant displayed early senescence in its rosette leaves (Supplementary Fig. S3), indicating that autophagy is repressed in the double mutant. These results demonstrate that the decrease in peroxisome number is caused by accelerated peroxisome degradation that occurs via autophagy. We then examined whether the decrease in peroxisome number is responsible for cytosolic GFP accumulation in apem10. It was easy to assay the apem10 phenotype in root cells because these cells exhibited various gradations of phenotype along the developmental lineage; numerous peroxisomes remained in young cells near the root tip, whereas the peroxisome number was dramatically reduced in the upper cells of the root. Fig. 5E shows the border region where adjacent cells exhibiting each phenotype were observed. In this region, cells containing numerous peroxisomes began to exhibit cytosolic GFP accumulation over time. To reveal the relationship between autophagy and the shift in the apem10 phenotype, apem10 seedlings were treated with the vacuolar H+-ATPase inhibitor concanamycin A (ConA), which is used to detect autophagy since it inhibits the degradation of autophagic bodies in the vacuole (CITATION). In cells of the phenotype-shifting region of ConA-treated apem10 roots, peroxisome-like vesicles were detected in the vacuole. At this point, dim GFP fluorescence was observed in the cytosol, revealing initiation of the accumulation of GFP protein in the cytosol (Fig. 5F). These results suggest that peroxisomes are degraded by autophagy before the cells exhibit cytosolic GFP fluorescence. Therefore, GFP–PTS1 protein accumulates in the cytosol due to a lack of peroxisomes, which could function as containers. During post-germinative growth, peroxisomal functions are rapidly exchanged. Glyoxysomal enzymes required for lipid metabolism become less abundant and are substituted with leaf peroxisomal enzymes that contribute to photorespiration after the plant is exposed to light (CITATION). During this functional transition, degradation of glyoxysomal proteins occurs immediately. To analyze another aspect of LON2 function, we focused on the relationship among LON2 functions, autophagy and the peroxisomal functional transition of glyoxysomes to leaf peroxisomes. Immunoblot analysis showed that glyoxysomal enzymes such as malate synthase (MS), isocitrate lyase (ICL) and thiolase were highly accumulated in seedlings grown in continuous darkness (Fig. 6A, ‘4D’), and these enzymes were degraded after illumination (Fig. 6A, ‘4D1L’, ‘4D2L’ and ‘4D3L’) in WT plants. The amount of the leaf peroxisomal enzyme HPR increased, whereas illumination did not alter the amount of the membrane protein PEX14. In the apem10 mutant, the level of glyoxysomal proteins was lower than in WT plants, even in the dark. This decrease in apem10 may be caused by accelerated peroxisomal degradation by autophagy. In the apem10 and peup1 mutants, the amount of glyoxysomal and leaf peroxisomal proteins decreased and increased, respectively, which also occurred in WT plants. However, ICL and MS still remained in the apem10 peup1 double mutant. Aggregates of peroxisomes, which contain oil bodies, are present in mesophyll cells of etiolated cotyledons (CITATION); these aggregates disappeared and peroxisomes became present as independent vesicles after the functional transition (Fig. 6B, ‘WT’). In apem10 cotyledons, the number of peroxisomes in the mesophyll cells decreased. In the peup1 and apem10 peup1 mutants, peroxisome aggregates remained in the mesophyll cells, indicating that clearance of these aggregates requires autophagy (Fig. 6B). These results implicate that glyoxysomal proteins are degraded by two independent degradation pathways, i.e. the LON2- and autophagy-dependent pathways. In contrast to ICL and MS, thiolase was not degraded in the peup1 mutant (Fig. 6A), indicating that thiolase is not a substrate of LON2, and that it is degraded by autophagy during the peroxisomal functional transition.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] LON proteases play roles as multifunctional enzymes and contribute to the degradation of oxidized and damaged proteins in bacteria and organelles in eukaryotic cells (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). Moreover, the AAA+ ATPase domain, which probably functions with the N-terminal domain, provides the mechanical power needed to unfold substrate proteins; thus, LON proteins act as a molecular chaperone (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). To investigate which domain in LON2 is essential for its function. We generated two mutant forms of LON2 containing amino acid substitutions: Lys414 to alanine (LON2[K414A]) and Ser783 to alanine (LON2[S783A]) (Fig. 7A). Lys414 is present in the ATP-binding site of the Walker A motif of the AAA+ ATPase domain, and the K414A mutation is expected to arrest the binding of ATP to LON2. Ser783 is a conserved residue at the active center of the peptidase domain, in which the substitution of Ser783 by alanine inactivates peptidase activity. Two mutated and WT LON2 (LON2[WT]) constructs were expressed in the apem10 mutant under the control of the LON2 promoter (Fig. 7A). Lines expressing adequate amounts of LON2 protein were selected for further analysis (Fig. 7B). In LON2[WT]-transformed apem10, GFP fluorescence was observed in peroxisomes and not in the cytosol, which was also observed in WT plants (Fig. 7C). Interestingly, the introduction of LON2[S783A], but not LON2[K414A], was able to rescue the apem10 phenotype (Fig. 7C). In addition, the number of peroxisomes in apem10 LON2[S783A] was higher than that of WT plants (Fig. 7D). During the functional transition, in apem10 LON2[S783A], the glyoxysomal proteins ICL, MS and thiolase accumulated as they had in the apem10 peup1 double mutant (Fig. 6A), and the peroxisome aggregates remained in the mesophyll cells (Fig. 6B). In apem10 LON2[K414A], the changes in the amounts of glyoxysomal and leaf peroxisomal proteins were similar to those in apem10, and the number of peroxisomes in the mesophyll cells was reduced, as in apem10. These results indicate that the suppression of peroxisome degradation by autophagy requires the chaperone domain but not the peptidase domain. Notably, the number of peroxisomes in the apem10 LON2[S783A] plants was higher than that in WT plants in both rosette leaves and greening cotyledons (Figs. 6B, 7D), and apem10 LON2[S783A] shows accumulation of glyoxysomal proteins like the apem10 peup1 double mutant after illumination (Fig. 6A). These results indicate that the peptidase domain of LON2 reduced the effect of the chaperone function on the suppression of autophagy.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The GFP–PTS1 transgenic plants and the apem10 mutant were derived from the Columbia background (CITATION, CITATION). The knockout line containing a T-DNA insertion in the At5g47040 locus, SALK_128438 (lon2-1), was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC) (http://abrc.osu.edu/). To examine the relationship between its phenotype and genotype, the presence of the T-DNA insertion was confirmed by PCR using gene-specific primers with the T-DNA specific LB-1 primer (Supplementary Table S1). All seeds were surface-sterilized in 2% (v/v) NaClO, 0.02% (v/v) Triton X-100 and germinated on growth medium containing 2.3 mg ml−1 Murashige and Skoog salts (Wako), 0.5 µg ml−1 MES-KOH (pH 5.7) and 0.8% (w/v) agar (INA) with or without 1% (w/v) sucrose. Germination was induced by incubating the seeds for 48 h at 4°C and then transferring them to 22°C under continuous light. Since the apem10 mutant showed severe germination defects, all seed coats were nicked to accelerate seed coat rupturing (CITATION, CITATION). Tissues from plants were examined using an LSM510META confocal laser-scanning microscope (Carl Zeiss), as previously described (CITATION). Z-projection images of mesophyll cells in Fig. 6B were produced using the following steps. First, a Z-stack image comprising five slices was produced. The first slice was obtained, showing the top surface of the epidermal cells, and the other slices were obtained using 8 µm steps from the first slice. To produce an image of the mesophyll cells, the third to fifth images were used for Z-projection with maximum intensity projection using ImageJ software (NIH, http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij), since the first and second slices contained signals from epidermal cells. The apem10 mutant, which was backcrossed three times with the parental GFP–PTS1 transgenic plant, was crossed with another accession, Landsberg erecta, to produce F1 and, subsequently, F2 progeny. A total of 180 F2 progeny expressing the apem10 phenotype were scored according to their genetic background, as determined using a series of cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence (CAPS) and simple sequence length polymorphism (SSLP) markers (CITATION, CITATION). Rough mapping showed the location of the APEM10 locus between the DFR and LFY3 markers on chromosome 5. Several sets of CAPS and SSLP markers were used for fine mapping, according to sequences available in the Monsanto Arabidopsis Polymorphism Collection (http://www.Arabidopsis.org/browse/Cereon/), and NARAMAP markers, which were kindly provided by M. Tasaka and M. Morita at the Nara Institute of Science and Technology (CITATION). Fine mapping identified the APEM10 locus between the MPL12 and K14A3 BAC clones, which contains 106 predicted genes. The nucleotide substitution in At5g47040 revealed it to be a possible candidate for the APEM10 gene. To confirm that the correct gene was identified, the APEM10 genomic fragment, which included a 2.0 kb upstream region and a 0.5 kb downstream region, was cloned into pCR8/GW/TOPO (Invitrogen) using specific primers (Supplementary Table S1), and the insert was transferred into the binary vector pGWB1 (CITATION) using the Gateway LR recombination method (Invitrogen). The construct was transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58C1RifR and then introduced into apem10 plants using the floral dip method (CITATION). The LON2 cDNA fragments, which were conjugated with attB1 and attB2 sequences at their 5′ and 3′ ends, respectively, were amplified by PCR with gene-specific primer sets (Supplementary Table S1) and cloned into the entry vector pDONR221 (Invitrogen) using the Gateway BP recombination method (Invitrogen). LON2 cDNA clones containing the K414A (LON2[K414A]) and S783A (LON2[S783A]) mutations were prepared by PCR-based site-directed mutagenesis with Pfu Turbo DNA polymerase (Stratagene) and the specific primer set (Supplementary Table S1). The LON2 promoter, which included a 2.0 kb upstream region and start codon, was cloned into entry vector pDONR P4-P1R (Invitrogen) using specific primers (Supplementary Table S1) to generate pDONRP4-P1R/LON2pro. For complementation analysis of apem10, each LON2 cDNA fragment (LON2[WT], LON2[K414A] and LON2[S783A]), which was cloned into pDONR221, was transferred into the destination vector R4pGWB601 (CITATION) with pDONRP4-P1R/LON2pro to generate binary vectors expressing modified LON2 cDNAs under the control of the LON2 promoter. The construct was transformed into A. tumefaciens strain C58C1RifR and then introduced into apem10 plants using the floral dip method (CITATION). To extract total proteins, Arabidopsis seedlings were homogenized with extraction buffer containing 20 mM Tris–HCl, pH 6.8, 10% (v/v) β-mercaptoethanol, 2% (w/v) SDS and 24% (v/v) glycerol. The homogenates were centrifuged at 20,000 × g for 10 min at 4°C, and the supernatants were collected. The concentration of extracted proteins was estimated using a protein assay kit (Bio-Rad) with bovine γ-albumin as a standard. The proteins were separated by SDS–PAGE and transferred to a polyvinylidene fluoride membrane (Millipore) in a semi-dry electroblotting system. Immunodetection was performed on the membrane using rabbit antibodies raised against LON2 (1 : 2,000 dilution), PEX14 (1 : 7,000 dilution), ACS6 (1 : 5,000 dilution), PMP38 (1 : 5,000 dilution), pAPX (1 : 8,000 dilution), PEX5 (1 : 3,000 dilution), CAT (1 : 8,000 dilution), HPR (1 : 4,000 dilution), MS (1 : 3,000 dilution), ICL (1 : 4,000 dilution), thiolase (1 : 15,000 dilution) and GFP (1 : 3,000 dilution), and immunoreactive bands were detected by monitoring the activity of a horseradish peroxidase-conjugated antibody against rabbit IgG (ECL system; GE Healthcare BioSciences). Leaves from 2-week-old plants were analyzed as described previously (CITATION). An antibody against pAPX (1 : 2,000 dilution) and the secondary antibody Cy3-conjugated anti-rabbit IgG (1 : 1,000 dilution) were used. To separate the peroxisome-rich fractions, the subcellular fractionation method was performed according to CITATION, with several modifications. Briefly, 1-week-old seedlings (0.5–1.0 g) were chopped with a razor blade in a Petri dish on ice in 1.5–3.0 ml of chopping buffer containing 50 mM HEPES-NaOH (pH 7.5), 1 mM EDTA and 0.4 M sucrose. The homogenate was filtered through a cell strainer (BD Bioscience) with brief centrifugation. An aliquot of the filtrate was used as the total fraction. A 1 ml aliquot of the filtrate was centrifuged at 1,000 × g at 4°C for 20 min. The pellet was resuspended in 1 ml of chopping buffer and was designated as the P1 fraction. The supernatant was centrifuged again at 8,000 × g at 4°C for 20 min. The pellet was resuspended in 1 ml of chopping buffer and was designated as the P8 fraction. The supernatant was ultracentrifuged at 100,000 × g at 4°C for 1 h. The pellet was resuspended in 1 ml of chopping buffer and was designated as the P100 fraction, and the supernatant was designated as the S100 fraction. Each fraction was subjected to SDS–PAGE, and the relative distribution of peroxisomal proteins in each fraction was compared using immunoblot analysis with specific antibodies against HPR. HPR was detected in the P1 and P8 fractions. Therefore, the P1 and P8 fractions were used as the peroxisome-rich fractions. The filtrated homogenates were centrifuged at 8,000 × g at 4°C for 20 min, and the pellet was designated as the P1–P8 fraction. Peroxisomes in the P1–P8 fraction were resuspended in either low-salt buffer (10 mM HEPES-KOH, pH 7.2, 1 mM EDTA and 50 mM NaCl), high-salt buffer (10 mM HEPES-KOH, pH 7.2, 1 mM EDTA and 500 mM NaCl) or alkaline buffer (0.1 M Na2CO3, pH 11) for 1 h at 4°C, and the solution was then centrifuged at 100,000 × g at 4°C for 30 min to separate it into the supernatant and pellet. In some experiments, peroxisomes in the P1–P8 fraction were incubated with chopping buffer containing an appropriate concentration of proteinase K for 30 min at 4°C in the presence or absence of 5% (v/v) Triton X-100. The reactions were terminated by the addition of 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride. Immunocytochemical procedures were, essentially, as described previously (CITATION). The leaves of 5-week-old plants containing enlarged peroxisomes were screened using fluorescence microscopy and employed as a sample. An antibody against GFP (1 : 1,000 dilution) and CAT (1 : 5,000 dilution), as well as IgG–gold (15 nm; GE Healthcare, 1 : 50 dilution), were used in this experiment. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under the following accession numbers: LON2 (At5g47040) and ATG2 (At3g19190). The GenBank accession number for the knockout line described in this article is SALK_128438 (lon2-1).
