!~ABS~! Degradation of the plant hormone cytokinin is catalyzed by cytokinin oxidase/dehydrogenase (CKX) enzymes. The Arabidopsis thaliana genome encodes seven CKX proteins which differ in subcellular localization and substrate specificity. Here we analyze the CKX7 gene, which to the best of our knowledge has not yet been studied. pCKX7:GUS expression was detected in the vasculature, the transmitting tissue and the mature embryo sac. A CKX7–GFP fusion protein localized to the cytosol, which is unique among all CKX family members. 35S:CKX7-expressing plants developed short, early terminating primary roots with smaller apical meristems, contrasting with plants overexpressing other CKX genes. The vascular bundles of 35S:CKX7 primary roots contained only protoxylem elements, thus resembling the wol mutant of the CRE1/AHK4 receptor gene. We show that CRE1/AHK4 activity is required to establish the CKX7 overexpression phenotype. Several cytokinin metabolites, in particular cis-zeatin (cZ) and N-glucoside cytokinins, were depleted stronger in 35S:CKX7 plants compared with plants overexpressing other CKX genes. Interestingly, enhanced protoxylem formation together with reduced primary root growth was also found in the cZ-deficient tRNA isopentenyltransferase mutant ipt2,9. However, different cytokinins were similarly efficient in suppressing 35S:CKX7 and ipt2,9 vascular phenotypes. Therefore, we hypothesize that the pool of cytosolic cytokinins is particularly relevant in the root procambium where it mediates the differentiation of vascular tissues through CRE1/AHK4. Taken together, the distinct consequences of CKX7 overexpression indicate that the cellular compartmentalization of cytokinin degradation and substrate preference of CKX isoforms are relevant parameters that define the activities of the hormone.
!~RES~! The previously characterized CKX genes (CKX1 to CKX6) of Arabidopsis were shown to be differentially expressed at different times in the life of the plant in specific and largely non-overlapping domains (Werner et al., CITATION; Bartrina et al., CITATION). To study the expression of CKX7, a 2-kb promoter region of CKX7 was used to drive the expression of the GUS reporter gene. In Arabidopsis plants stably transformed with the CKX7:GUS construct, GUS activity was detected at two developmental time points. First, the CKX7 promoter became active about 1–2 days after germination (DAG) in the vasculature of roots, hypocotyls and cotyledons (Figure 1a,b). The activity was also detected in the vasculature of young true leaves and it became weaker as the individual leaves expanded. The expression was mainly associated with vascular cells (Figure 1c). No GUS activity was detectable during later vegetative stages. In flowers, CKX7:GUS expression was detected in the transmitting tissue of the gynoecium prior to pollination (Figure 1d). Furthermore, GUS activity was observed in the mature embryo sac and its maximum activity was associated with the egg cell and the synergids (Figure 1e). Weaker activity was occasionally also detected in the central cell. CKX7:GUS activity ceased after pollination and was not detectable in the developing embryo. In some lines, the activity occasionally extended beyond the pollination stage and weak GUS staining was detected in the developing endosperm. [[FIGURE]] Sequence analysis of the predicted CKX7 protein revealed no obvious N-terminal targeting sequence or nuclear localization signal, suggesting that it could be localized in the cytosol (Schmülling et al., CITATION). To experimentally determine the subcellular localization of the CKX7 protein, we fused green fluorescent protein (GFP) to the C-terminus of CKX7 and expressed the fusion protein under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter in stably transformed Arabidopsis plants. Using confocal microscopy, CKX7–GFP fluorescence was detected in the cytosol surrounding the central vacuole and the signal was clearly separated from the cell membrane (Figure 2). The same fluorescence pattern was observed in control plants expressing the untargeted GFP. All individual transgenic lines expressing the CKX7–GFP fusion phenocopied the corresponding 35S:CKX7-overexpressing lines (see below), demonstrating that the fusion protein was functional. [[FIGURE]] To study the biological activity of CKX7, we generated and analyzed in detail transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing CKX7 or a CKX7–GFP fusion gene under the control of the constitutive 35S promoter. Both constructs are called 35S:CKX7 in the following unless specified otherwise. Selected 35S:CKX7 transgenic plants showed enhanced expression of the transgene compared with wild-type plants in which CKX7 transcripts were not detectable by RNA gel blot analysis (Figure 3a). The transcript levels were significantly higher in plants expressing the CKX7–GFP fusion gene compared with CKX7, suggesting stabilization of the chimeric transcript. [[FIGURE]] The CKX activity was increased in all 35S:CKX7 transgenic lines in comparison with the wild type (Figure 3b) and correlated with the level of transgene expression. In the weaker expressing lines 35S:CKX7-92 and 35S:CKX7-93, CKX activity was increased about four times, whereas in the strongly expressing line 35S:CKX7-GFP-26 the increase was about 300-fold compared with the wild type. These results demonstrate that CKX7 in Arabidopsis possesses canonical cytokinin-degrading enzyme activity. Next we analyzed the effects of the enhanced CKX7 activity on the content of endogenous cytokinin in seedlings and compared this with the cytokinin content in wild-type seedlings as well as with transgenic seedlings expressing other CKX isoforms with different subcellular localizations and biochemical characteristics (35S:CKX1 and 35S:CKX2; Werner et al., CITATION). This comparison may indicate the substrate preferences of the analyzed CKX isoforms and/or the accessibility of different cytokinin substrates for the different CKX enzymes. Collectively, 35S:CKX7 expression resulted in a 30% reduction in the total cytokinin content compared with the wild type. The levels of most of the main cytokinin metabolites were reduced below 20% compared with the respective metabolites in the wild type (Table 1 and Table S1 in Supporting Information). A similar reduction in the total cytokinin content was detected in seedlings expressing 35S:CKX2 (35% reduction) and a stronger reduction (77%) was detected in 35S:CKX1 plants. Interestingly, significant differences in the relative content of several individual cytokinin metabolites were detected among the lines expressing individual CKX isoforms. For example, the content of tZR, iPR and cytokinin nucleotides (tZRP and iPRP) in 35S:CKX7 was less reduced than in 35S:CKX1 and 35S:CKX2 seedlings. In contrast, cZ-type cytokinins (cZ and cZ9G) and iP9G were significantly more strongly reduced in 35S:CKX7 plants, suggesting a high affinity of CKX7 to these substrates or a better access to them due to the cytosolic localization. The concentration of cytokinin metabolites was measured in 6-day-old seedlings of lines 35S:CKX1-11, 35S:CKX2-9 and 35S:CKX7-GFP-26, and expressed as a percentage of wild-type values. Absolute values and statistical analysis are shown in Table S1. tZ, trans-zeatin; cZ, cis-zeatin; iP, N6-(Δ2-isopentenyl)adenine; tZR, tZ riboside; cZR, cZ riboside; iPR, iP riboside; tZ9G, tZ 9-N-glucoside; cZ9G, cZ 9-N-glucoside; iP9G, iP 9-N-glucoside; tZOG, tZ O-glucoside; cZOG, cZ O-glucoside; tZRP, tZR 5′-phosphate; cZRP, cZR 5′-phosphate; iPRP, iPR 5′-phosphate; n.d., concentration below the detection limit. Comparison of cytokinin contents between line 35S:CKX7-93 and the wild type is shown in Table S1. The reduction of cytokinin content in CKX7-overexpressing seedlings resulted in specific changes in seedling morphology and development. 35S:CKX7 seedlings germinated normally and looked similar to the wild type early after germination. However, the primary root did not develop any lateral roots and stopped growing approximately three DAG at a length of about 5 mm (Figure 4). This determinate root phenotype was observed in all of about 150 independent T1 plants harboring either 35S:CKX7 or 35S:CKX7–GFP. The phenotype was independent of the degree of increase in CKX activity, indicating that a small increase in CKX7 expression is sufficient to cause these changes. In accordance with this, it was found that the cytokinin content was reduced to a similar degree in strongly (35S:CKX7–GFP-26) and weakly (35S:CKX7-93) expressing lines (Table S1). This root phenotype was strongly contrasting with the enhanced root elongation of plants overproducing other CKX isoforms (Werner et al., CITATION). The first true leaves in 35S:CKX7 seedlings stayed small, grew epinastic and displayed visible stress symptoms such as yellowing and accumulation of anthocyanin (Figure 4a and Figure S1), suggesting poor nutrient uptake from the medium. The growth arrest of the 35S:CKX7 shoot lasted for about 1 week until the formation of adventitious roots at the hypocotyl–root junction was initiated, leading to the formation of a root system and the recovery of shoot growth (Figure 4c). During later development, only 35S:CKX7–GFP transgenic lines with a strongly increased CKX activity showed differences in shoot morphology (Figure 4d). The size of the leaves and the plant height were slightly reduced and a few more lateral branches and fewer flowers were produced compared with the wild type (Figure 4d). [[FIGURE]] The primary root was studied in more detail in order to understand its determinate phenotype. Microscopic analysis showed that the diameter of the 35S:CKX7 primary root as well as the size of the root meristem was strongly reduced compared with the wild type (Figure 5). The reduced size of the root meristem was clearly demonstrated by the reduced number of cortex cells counted in a single cell file between the quiescent center and the cell elongation zone (Figure 5b). The size of the root meristem in the wild type increased continuously from germination until 6 DAG when about 33 cells were established. In 35S:CKX7 roots, the number of meristematic cells was comparable to the wild type directly after germination (about 18 cells; Figure 5b) but there was no increase during the later stages. The relative cell number was clearly reduced already at three DAG in the 35S:CKX7 meristem (Figure 5b). The meristem size in 35S:CKX7 plants was reduced at six DAG compared with size at three DAG (Figure 5b), indicating that the differentiating meristematic cells were not replenished due to the low cell division activity in the meristem. These changes correlated temporally with the arrested root elongation. [[FIGURE]] To substantiate the consequences of CKX7 overexpression for cell division, we monitored the activity of a mitotic marker, CYCB1:GUS, in wild-type and 35S:CKX7 root meristems. Owing to a mitotic degradation signal in the protein, the reporter gene visualizes only actively dividing cells at the G2–M phase of the cell cycle (Colón-Carmona et al., CITATION). The GUS staining showed that cell division activity was already strongly reduced in the root meristem of 35S:CKX7 plants shortly after germination and it declined further at later time points (Figure 6). The GUS activity was almost undetectable in 35S:CKX7 meristems at 5–6 DAG, corresponding to the reduced meristem size and cessation of root growth. [[FIGURE]] Further inspection of the primary root structure showed no difference with respect to overall organization of the meristem or identity of the ground tissues and quiescent center. However, we observed that markedly fewer vascular cell files were present in the central cylinder of the 35S:CKX7 primary root. Fuchsin staining of lignified tissues of the xylem showed clear differences in the differentiation of the xylem (Figure 7). The xylem axis of the wild-type primary root consists of two cell types: protoxylem with spiral or annular secondary cell wall thickenings and more centrally positioned metaxylem with pitted walls (Figure 7a; Mähönen et al., CITATION). In contrast, the reduced vascular cylinder in the 35S:CKX7 primary root contained only protoxylem (Figure 7b). Such an abnormal differentiation of all vascular cell files into protoxylem was previously described for the wol mutants of the CRE1/AHK4 cytokinin receptor gene (Scheres et al., CITATION; Mähönen et al., CITATION; García-Ponce de León et al., CITATION; Kuroha et al., CITATION) as well as for mutants with strong cytokinin signaling defects (Higuchi et al., CITATION; Nishimura et al., CITATION; Hutchison et al., CITATION; Yokoyama et al., CITATION; Argyros et al., CITATION). This suggests that ectopic expression of CKX7 strongly diminished cytokinin activity in the differentiating procambial cells. [[FIGURE]] The procambial cell divisions required to generate the vascular cell files in the root are regulated by the redundant activity of the three cytokinin receptors AHK2, AHK3 and CRE1/AHK4. Therefore only simultaneous mutation of all three genes leads to the aberrant vascular development and determinate growth (Higuchi et al., CITATION; Nishimura et al., CITATION). However, CRE1/AHK4 displays a binary mode of activity: cytokinin binding promotes its kinase activity, whereas in the absence of cytokinin CRE1/AHK4 is a phosphatase that dephosphorylates AHP proteins and thus abbreviates cytokinin signaling (Mähönen et al., CITATION). Hence, the wol mutation in CRE1/AHK4 that abolishes cytokinin binding (Yamada et al., CITATION) causes the same developmental defects as displayed by triple receptor mutants. To test whether the phosphatase activity of CRE1/AHK4 might be causally involved in the establishment of the 35S:CKX7 phenotype, we introgressed a loss-of-function allele of CRE1/AHK4, cre1-2 (Inoue et al., CITATION), in the 35S:CKX7 background and analyzed root development. Figure 8(a) shows that cre1-2 almost completely suppressed the 35S:CKX7 short root phenotype. Likewise, loss of CRE1/AHK4 function rescued the development of the vascular system, lateral root formation and normal seedling growth. Enzyme measurements showed that 35S:CKX7 activity was not significantly changed in the cre1-2 background (Figure 8b). In contrast, introgression of ahk2 or ahk3 mutant alleles in the 35S:CKX7 plants did not rescue the primary root phenotype (Figure S2), indicating that the CRE1/AHK4 activity mediated most if not all of the 35S:CKX7 phenotypic changes. This further suggests that the vascular phenotype was specifically caused by the phosphatase activity of CRE1/AHK4. [[FIGURE]] To test how cytokinin activity was altered by cytokinin deficiency in 35S:CKX7 transgenic plants, we compared the expression of the cytokinin marker gene ARR5:GUS (D'Agostino et al., CITATION) in wild type and in 35S:CKX7 transgenic plants (Figure 9). In the wild-type root, ARR5:GUS expression was highest in the columella root cap and procambial region of the meristem, and it became progressively stronger during the time course of development (Figure 9a). In comparison, ARR5:GUS activity was weaker directly after germination and at all tested time points in 35S:CKX7 roots (Figure 9b), indicating reduced cytokinin activity. Furthermore, ARR5:GUS staining was only detectable in columella cells but it was completely missing in the procambium and vascular cylinder of 35S:CKX7 roots even after prolonged staining. Provided that the reduction of the total cytokinin content in 35S:CKX7 plants was weaker than in other CKX overexpressers, the absence of ARR5:GUS expression in the procambium indicated a particularly strong reduction in the cytokinin content or a depletion of specific cytokinin metabolites in this tissue. [[FIGURE]] The remarkably strong reduction in the concentration of several cZ-type cytokinins in the 35S:CKX7 background (Table 1) led us to test the eventual involvement of these cytokinin metabolites during root development and their possible relevance for establishing the wol-like phenotype. Whereas iP- and tZ-type cytokinins are synthesized by ADP/ATP IPTs, cZ-cytokinins are degradation products of cis-hydroxy tRNAs, which are formed by two tRNA IPT enzymes, IPT2 and IPT9 (Miyawaki et al., CITATION). The consequences of loss of cZ production in the ipt2,9 double mutant for plant development have not been addressed in detail. In agreement with a previous report, our quantification of endogenous cytokinins showed that all cZ-type cytokinins, except for cZOG, were completely absent in ipt2,9 plants (Miyawaki et al., CITATION; Table S1). Figure 10 shows that the elongation of the primary root was strongly reduced by about 70% in these mutants compared with the wild-type control (Figure 10a,b). Microscopic analysis revealed that the short-root phenotype of ipt2,9 plants correlated with a smaller size of the root meristem which contained fewer meristematic cells than the wild type (Figure 10e). The transition zone was positioned more distally, indicating an earlier onset of cell differentiation (Figure 10e). In comparison with the wild type, ipt2,9 roots were markedly thinner. The formation of lateral roots was decreased by about 50% in ipt2,9 plants, but the lateral root density was not reduced (Figure 10c,d). In contrast, both root elongation and lateral root formation in ipt3,5,7 – a multiple ADP/ATP ipt mutant with reduced iP- and tZ-type cytokinin content – were slightly increased, in agreement with a previous report (Figure 10b,c; Miyawaki et al., CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Next we analyzed whether IPT2 and IPT9 are also required for the correct differentiation of root vascular tissue. Histological studies revealed that the pattern of differentiation was altered in ipt2,9 roots, with extra protoxylem cell files being frequently established. Two continuous protoxylem cell files were typically observed in wild-type roots and only sporadically short stretches of extra protoxylem were observed (7%, n = 52). This pattern of differentiation was altered in ipt2,9 roots which established one to four ectopic protoxylem cell files in 68% of cases (n = 55; Figure 11). These cell files were often extended over a longer distance. Similarly, ectopic development of one or two protoxylem files was observed in the double cytokinin receptor mutant cre1 ahk3, with 100% frequency (Figure 11; Mähönen et al., CITATION). Notwithstanding the apparent similarity, there were subtle differences between the ipt2,9 and cre1 ahk3 mutants. First, although the frequency of ectopic protoxylem formation per plant was higher in cre1 ahk3 than in ipt2,9 (Figure 11b), the number of ectopic protoxylem files was often lower (up to two extra files in cre1 ahk3 versus up to four extra files in ipt2,9). Secondly, whereas the ectopic protoxylem file(s) often continued over a long distance or even the entire root length in cre1 ahk3, the ectopic protoxylem formation was more erratic in ipt2,9. The highest number of extra protoxylem files was often observed close to the root tip in the differentiation zone. These files continued over a certain distance but were eventually terminated and the protoxylem/metaxylem pattern was partially normalized (Figure S3). Importantly, there was no difference in protoxylem development in ipt3,5,7 roots, supporting the hypothesis that protoxylem differentiation in the root procambium could be predominantly controlled by tRNA IPTs. [[FIGURE]] To test if the reduction of specific cytokinin metabolites is causally linked to developmental changes in 35S:CKX7 and ipt2,9 plants, different cytokinins were tested for their capability to complement these changes. The elongation of primary roots in 35S:CKX7 plants could be weakly, and to a similar extend, complemented by the highest concentrations of cZ, tZ and benzyladenine (BA; Figure 12a). However, the primary root length was still very short in comparison with the wild type. In contrast, Figure 12(b) shows that the root vascular phenotype in 35S:CKX7 was fully rescued by exogenous cytokinin, as the number of protoxylem cell files was suppressed and the formation of metaxylem restored in a dose-dependent manner (Figure 12b). Both zeatin isomers could suppress the wol-like vascular pattern; however, tZ was more effective already at lower concentrations compared with cZ. [[FIGURE]] In ipt2,9 plants, all tested cytokinins had only a small effect on primary root elongation at lower concentrations; the highest tested concentration had an inhibitory effect (Figure 12c). However, ectopic protoxylem formation in ipt2,9 plants was suppressed by low cytokinin concentrations (Figure 12d). Interestingly, in the cZ-deficient ipt2,9 mutant, tZ was also effective in suppressing ectopic protoxylem formation, at even lower concentrations than cZ (Figure 12d). These results suggest that, at least in the case of regulation of vascular development in the Arabidopsis root, cZ and tZ have similar activities.
!~MM~! The CKX7 gene (At5g21482) was amplified from genomic DNA of Arabidopsis thaliana Columbia (Col-0) with the DNA polymerase Bio-X-Act-long (Bioline, http://www.bioline.com/) using the oligonucleotides L1/KpnI-fw (5′-cggggtaccACACACACACCAAAATGATAGCTT-3′) and L2/SalI-rev (5′-cgggtcgacAATATGAGGGGTCAAAGAGACCTA-3′). The resulting gene fragment was cloned into pCR2.1-TOPO (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com/), generating pCR2.1-CKX7. The gene sequence was verified by sequencing and subcloned in the KpnI and SalI sites of pBINHygTx (Gatz et al., CITATION) downstream of the 35S promoter. To generate the 35S:CKX7–GFP fusion gene, the CKX7 gene was amplified from pCR2.1-CKX7 using the oligonucleotides L1/KpnI-fw and CKX7-Stop/XhoI-rev (5′-gcctcgagAGAGACCTATTGAAAATC-3′) which mutated the stop codon into a serin codon (TCG). The KpnI/XhoI fragment was subcloned in the vector pBinSMGFP (Werner et al., CITATION) creating the CKX7–GFP fusion gene under control of the 35S promoter. A 2-kb promoter fragment of CKX7 was amplified by PCR using the oligonucleotides pCKX7SmaI5′-fw (5′-cgcccgggTTTTCTACTGGAACAACACAATTTTT-3′) and pCKX7SmaI3′-rev (5′-cgcccgggTGTGTGATTGTGTGTAAATGCTAAAT-3′). The resulting fragment was cloned into the SmaI site of pBluescript II SK(+), sequenced and subsequently subcloned into the SmaI site of the binary vector pGPTV-BAR (Becker et al., CITATION) upstream of the uidA reporter gene. The binary vectors were transformed via Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 (pMP90) into A. thaliana Col-0 according to the standard protocol (Clough and Bent, CITATION). Primary transformants were selected on half-strength MS medium (Murashige and Skoog, CITATION) containing 1% sucrose and supplemented either with 15 mg L−1 hygromycin B for 35S:CKX7- and 35S:CKX7-GFP-expressing plants or with 12 mg L−1 phosphinotricin for CKX7:GUS transformants. CYCB1:GUS, ARR5:GUS and 35S:GFP transgenic plants were described previously (Colón-Carmona et al., CITATION; D'Agostino et al., CITATION; Werner et al., CITATION) as well as lines 35S:CKX1-11 and 35S:CKX2-9 (Werner et al., CITATION). The CRE1/AHK4 T-DNA insertion mutant line cre1-2 was kindly provided by T. Kakimoto (Inoue et al., CITATION). Plants were grown in the greenhouse on soil and in vitro at 19–22°C under long-day conditions (16 h light/8 h dark). For in vitro assays, seeds were surface-sterilized and cold treated at 4°C for 3 days in the dark and then exposed to white light (about 75 μmol m−2 sec−1). Seedlings were grown on plates containing half strength MS medium with 1% sucrose. Total RNA was extracted from 7-day-old seedlings grown in vitro and RNA gel blot analysis was performed as described (Brenner et al., CITATION). Radioactive-labelled DNA probe corresponding to CKX7 cDNA was prepared using the Prime-It II Random Primer Labeling Kit (Stratagene, http://www.stratagene.com/). A phosphor imager (Storm 860; Molecular Dynamics, http://www.gelifesciences.com) was used for signal detection. The GUS expression analysis was carried out as described previously (Werner et al., CITATION). For microscopic inspection, tissues were cleared as described (Malamy and Benfey, CITATION). Staining was observed with a stereomicroscope (SZX12; Olympus, http://www.olympus.com/) or a microscope (Axioskop 2 plus with AxioCam ICc3 camera; Zeiss, http://www.zeiss.com/). Similar GUS activity patterns were detected in several independent transgenic lines harboring the CKX7:GUS construct. For microscopic inspection of root meristems, seedlings were fixed in a 1:6 mixture of acetic acid and ethanol for 2–4 h at room temperature and cleared with chloralhydrate:glycerol:H2O (8:1:2) for 1–6 h at room temperature (20 °C). The length of the cortical cells was measured from microscopy pictures using scion image software (http://www.scioncorp.com). Lignified xylem tissue was stained as described previously (Mähönen et al., CITATION). Seedlings were incubated in 0.01% basic fuchsin for 3 min at room temperature and, if necessary, destained at room temperature in 70% ethanol. Fuchsin and GFP fluorescence was analyzed by confocal microscopy (Leica TCS SP2, Leica, http://www.leica.com/) using the 488 nm line of the argon laser for excitation. Emission was recorded between 543 and 627 nm and 500 and 530 nm, respectively. The enzymatic activity of CKX in plant material was measured using a modified end-point method (Frébort et al., CITATION). The reactions were set up as described in Galuszka et al. (CITATION) using 0.2 ml of plant extract and 0.5 mm iP as a substrate. Reactions were incubated at 37°C for 2–20 h. The concentration of the produced Schiff base was determined using the molar absorption coefficient ε352 = 15.2 mm−1 cm−1 (Frébort et al., CITATION) and expressed as the amount of cleaved iP per total protein (Bradford, CITATION) and reaction time. Each sample contained about 1 g of 6-day-old seedlings grown in vitro. Three independent biological replicates were analysed for each genotype. Extraction, purification and quantification of endogenous cytokinins was performed according to the method described by Novák et al. (CITATION) including the modification described in Riefler et al. (CITATION).
