!~ABS~! Autophagy is a degradation pathway that recycles cell materials upon encountering stress conditions or during specific developmental processes. To better understand the physiological roles of autophagy, proper monitoring methods are very important. In mammals and yeast, monitoring of autophagy is often performed with a green fluorescent protein (GFP)–ATG8 fusion protein or with acidotropic dyes such as monodansylcadaverine (MDC) and LysoTracker Red (LTR). To evaluate these monitoring methods, here we examined these systems by inducing autophagy in Arabidopsis thaliana roots as a model for monitoring autophagy in planta. Under carbon- and nitrogen-starved conditions, the number and size of vesicles labeled by GFP–ATG8 was increased for several hours and then gradually decreased to a level higher than that observed before the start of the experiment. We also observed the disappearance of GFP–ATG8-labeled vesicles after treatment with wortmannin, a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor known as an autophagy inhibitor, showing that the GFP–ATG8 transgenic line constitutes an excellent method for monitoring autophagy. These data were compared with plants stained with MDC and LTR. There was no appreciable MDC/LTR staining of small organelles in the root under the induction of autophagy. Some vesicles were eventually observed in the root tip only, but co-localization experiments, as well as experiments with autophagy-deficient atg mutants, provided the evidence that these structures were located in the vacuole and were not manifestly autophagosomes and/or autolysosomes. Extreme caution should therefore be used when monitoring autophagy with the aid of MDC/LTR. Additionally, our observations strongly suggest that autophagosomes fuse directly to vacuoles in Arabidopsis roots.
!~RES~! In yeast and animals, GFP–ATG8 has been used as the most reliable molecular marker for autophagosomes (CITATION, CITATION). Therefore, first of all, we used GFP–ATG8 transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana to monitor autophagic activity in planta. In order to test different methods for observation of autophagy, an autophagy induction method has to be employed. Since there were already reports of the importance of autophagy during nitrogen starvation, as well as carbon starvation (CITATION, CITATION), we chose to combine the two starvation conditions for a better autophagic response. Under nitrogen starvation in combination with carbon starvation conditions, the induction of autophagy was observed in a wild-type GFP–ATG8 A. thaliana line as well as a TOR-RNA interference (RNAi) line expressing GFP–ATG8 (Fig. 1). Under nutrient-rich conditions, several small dot structures with a diameter <0.5 µm labeled by GFP–ATG8 were visible in the roots (Fig. 1A; inset at 0 h). Then, after transfer to starved media, the number and size of the dot structures started to increase immediately and increased steadily over several hours (Fig. 1A, D, E). After about 4 h of starvation incubation, the ring-shaped structures were more abundant and larger in size (Fig. 1A, inset at 4 h). The number of dot structures peaked about 2–3 h after the beginning of starvation and decreased thereafter, but still to a level higher than the original number of the structures. The small dot structures observed are probably PASs, which will then become ring-shaped autophagosomes under autophagy-inducing conditions. We tracked the percentage of PASs (diameter <0.5 µm) relative to the percentage of autophagosomes present (diameter >1 µm) (Fig. 1E). Over the passage of 24 h, the percentage of autophagosomes rapidly increases while the percentage of PASs, which are predominant in the beginning, steadily decreases. Autophagosomes are most abundant at 4 h after the beginning of starvation, representing 58% of the total population of the structures, and then their percentage decreases again. After 24 h, PASs and autophagosomes are present equally in the cell.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Parallel with the GFP–ATG8 line, we observed a TOR-RNAi line since there was a study showing that knockdown of TOR in Arabidopsis resulted in constitutive autophagy (CITATION). As observed in that report, even under nutrient-rich conditions, the basal level of the number of the dot structures labeled by GFP–ATG8 was much higher in the TOR-RNAi line than in the wild-type line (Fig. 1B, D). Interestingly, the number was further increased by the starvation treatment and gradually decreased with kinetics similar to those of the wild-type line (Fig. 1B, D). The increase in the number of dot structures observed suggests that autophagy is more induced in the TOR-RNAi line, but there is still a possibility that in this line, the fusion of autophagosomes with the vacuole might be inhibited, leading to an accumulation of autophagosomes in the cytoplasm. In order to exclude this possibility, a concanamycin A treatment experiment was performed (Fig. 1C). When plant cells are treated with the V-ATPase inhibitor, concanamycin A, autophagic bodies can be detected inside the vacuolar lumen as small randomly moving vesicles, thus allowing us to monitor autophagic flow (CITATION). After treatment with concanamycin A for 3.5 h, wild-type roots slowly started to accumulate autophagic bodies in the vacuolar lumen, and in the TOR-RNAi line autophagic bodies were already highly accumulated even at this early time point. These results indicate that autophagy is already activated in the TOR-RNAi line under nutrient-rich conditions and that it is further induced by nutrient-starved conditions. To confirm the autophagic nature of the GFP–ATG8 fluorescent structures further, an autophagy inhibition experiment using wortmannin was conducted (Fig. 2). Wortmannin has been widely used as an autophagy inhibitor based on its inhibitory effect on class III PI3K activity, which is known to be essential for induction of autophagy (CITATION). After transfer to carbon- and nitrogen-starved media, the number of autophagosomes was increased (Fig. 2B, upper panel). However, when the plants were simultaneously treated with wortmannin, the root cells only presented extremely few very small structures like PASs (Fig. 2B, lower left panel, white arrowheads). After wash-out of wortmannin, an increased number of dot- or ring-shaped structures was again detected (Fig. 2B, lower right panel). Parallel to this and in the same experimental conditions, concanamycin A treatments induced accumulation of autophagic bodies in the vacuoles (Fig. 2D, upper panel), while simultaneous addition of wortmannin inhibited the accumulation of autophagic bodies (Fig. 2D, lower panel), proving that the GFP–ATG8 fluorescent dots are actually autophagy related and permitting the use of this line in order to monitor autophagy in planta.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] There is a report showing co-localization of MDC-stained vesicles and GFP–ATG8 fluorescent autophagosomes in Arabidopsis (CITATION). However it was observed only in protoplasts of suspension-cultured cells and thus it was not known if this is the case in planta. Therefore we performed MDC staining using Arabidopsis roots to check if MDC labels autophagosomes in planta. Here, MDC was used as a possible means to monitor autophagy in conjunction with GFP–ATG8 fluorescent lines. To observe MDC staining in A. thaliana roots, an experiment was conducted on the TOR-RNAi line under the same conditions as described above (Fig. 3). Over a period of 4 h starvation, during which we confirmed that autophagosomes were increased as shown in Fig. 1, MDC-positive vesicles were not detected above the root elongation zone (referred to hereafter as the root), even in this TOR-RNAi line which has higher autophagic activity (Fig. 3A). Then, co-localization experiments with GFP–ATG8 were performed in the wild-type line because the expression level of GFP–ATG8 in the TOR-RNAi line was too low for comparison. The results showed that there was never an overlap of MDC staining and GFP–ATG8 fluorescence in the root (Fig. 3B; Supplementary Fig. S1).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In root tips, on the other hand, some MDC-positive vesicles were occasionally detected (Fig. 3C, D). The MDC-stained vesicles detected appeared larger than the GFP–ATG8 fluorescent vesicles seen and were moving erratically in the vacuole. These vesicles are therefore not autophagosomes, which should be located in the cytoplasm. We also occasionally detected the same type of rapidly moving MDC-stained vesicles in atg5 and atg2 root tips (Fig. 3D; Supplementary Fig. S2A). Co-localization experiments with GFP–ATG8 in the root tips showed no overlap of GFP–ATG8 and MDC fluorescence (Fig. 3C), further confirming that MDC-stained structures are not autophagosomes. Altogether, these results indicate that MDC does not stain autophagosomes in planta. LysoTracker has been also reported as an indicator of autophagosomes or autolysosomes especially in animals and recently also in plants (CITATION, CITATION); therefore, we checked in TOR-RNAi roots if LTR specifically labels autophagosomes/autolysosomes in planta. In order to check autophagy-related staining by LTR, the same autophagy-inducing nitrogen and carbon starvation conditions were used (Fig. 4A, B). As observed in Fig. 1E, autophagosomes were greatly increased after approximately 4 h incubation on the nutrient-starved media (Fig. 4A, middle panels). However, as with MDC, no LTR-positive vesicles were detected in the roots even under such autophagy-inducing conditions (Fig. 4A, upper left panel), while in the root tips some LTR signals were clearly identified (Fig. 4A, lower left panel). As with MDC, the LTR-positive structures observed were moving erratically in the vacuole (Supplementary Movie S1). In addition, these structures appeared to be larger than the vesicles labeled by GFP–ATG8 (autophagosomes), and they actually did not co-localize with them (Fig. 4A, lower panels). Therefore, the LTR-positive structures in root tips are not autophagosomes and/or autolysosomes. This was confirmed by the presence of the LTR-positive structures in atg5 and atg2 mutants (Fig. 4B; Supplementary Fig. S2B). These results suggest that LTR could also label some structures other than autophagy-related structures, especially in the vacuolar lumen.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To verify further the specificity of LTR staining of autophagosomes and/or autolysosomes, we observed senescence-associated vacuoles (SAVs) in A. thaliana senescent leaves with the aid of LTR (Fig. 4C). Previously, Otegui et al. found that during senescence a population of small, lytic vacuoles (SAVs) develops in the peripheral cytoplasm of leaf cells and that these SAVs can be detected by LTR (CITATION). Although the data were not shown, the authors stated that SAVs seem not to be autophagy related since they are present even in atg7 mutant leaves (CITATION). As observed in their study, we detected some SAVs in the peripheral cytoplasm of wild-type senescent leaf cells (Fig. 4C, left panel, white arrows). However, LTR-stained vesicles were detected more in senescent leaf cells of the atg5 mutant than in those of the wild-type plant (Fig. 4C, right panel, small white arrowheads), sometimes forming large aggregates (Fig. 4C, right panel, large white arrowheads). Most of the LTR-positive signals in atg5 leaf cells seem to be located in the vacuolar lumen, not in the peripheral cytoplasm. From these results, we could at least conclude that LTR easily labels some structures that are not autophagy related. In tobacco BY-2 cells, autophagic processes have been observed with the aid of E-64d, a cysteine protease inhibitor, coupled with both an autophagy inhibitor such as 3-MA and acidotropic dyes such as LTR or FM 4-64 (CITATION). In E-64d-treated BY-2 cells, small acidic compartments which seem to be autolysosomes are clustered and form aggregates around the nucleus, not in the vacuolar lumen. From these observations, it has been proposed that autophagosomes acquire hydrolytic enzymes to become autolysosomes before fusion with the central vacuole, and that the autolysosomes play a major role in the degradation process in tobacco suspension-cultured cells (CITATION). In Arabidopsis roots, concanamycin A treatment, which will provoke inhibition of vacuolar degradation, results in accumulation of autophagic bodies in the vacuolar lumen, suggesting that autophagosomes fuse directly to vacuoles. The difference in the autophagic process between tobacco and Arabidopsis suggests that different autophagic pathways exist in different plant species. Therefore, we observed the situation after E-64d treatment in A. thaliana roots with the aim of confirming the aforementioned results in planta. We first looked at Arabidopsis transgenic roots in which vacuolar membranes can be visualized by monitoring GFP fluorescence (ProVAM3:GFP:VAM3/vam3-1) to determine if the aggregates formed after treatment with E-64d are in the vacuolar lumen or in the cytoplasm. After treatment with E-64d for 12 h, large aggregates were detected at the center of cells, surrounded by vacuolar membranes, not always close to the nucleus (Fig. 5A, left panel). This differs from the situation in BY-2 cells, suggesting that these are not aggregates of autolysosomes, but more likely to be autophagic bodies. We then performed time-lapse imaging of E-64d-treated roots at early time points in order to observe the dynamic process of aggregation (Fig. 5B). In the first 3 h of E-64d treatment, there was initially detection of single vesicles in the vacuole similar to the autophagic bodies detected after concanamycin A treatment (Fig. 5B, white arrows; Fig. 1C), then, after approximately 3 h of treatment, these single vesicles started to form aggregates and eventually fused into even larger aggregates. This aggregation process was not observed in atg mutants (data not shown), suggesting that they are autophagic bodies. Time-lapse imaging revealed dynamic movement of two small aggregates forming a larger one (Fig. 5C; Supplementary Movie S2). The small aggregates shown by black and white arrowheads were moving randomly at the beginning (Fig. 5C, 1–7 s), indicating that they were inside the vacuole, and the large aggregate formed became stable (Fig. 5C, 8–10 s, black arrows). This result is consistent with a previous report showing that in E-64d-treated Arabidopsis root cells, inclusions corresponding to cytoplasm degradation intermediates accumulate in the central vacuole (CITATION). In A. thaliana roots, therefore, E-64d treatment causes the accumulation of autophagic bodies inside the vacuole.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia was used in this study. The seeds of T-DNA knockout mutants of ATG5 (atg5-1, SAIL_129B07) and ATG2 (atg2-1, SALK_076727) were obtained from Nottingham Arabidopsis Resource Center (CITATION, CITATION). The GFP–ATG8f, TOR-RNAi, and ProVAM3:GFP:VAM3/vam3-1 lines used in this study were provided by Professsor Gad Galili (CITATION), Dr. Christian Meyer (CITATION) and Dr. Chieko Saito (CITATION, CITATION), respectively. For generation of the TOR-RNAi line expressing GFP–ATG8e, the coding sequence of AtATG8e lacking a stop codon was first amplified with 5′-AAAAAGCAGGCTCCAAAATGAATAAAGGAAGCATCTTT-3′ and 5′-AGAAAGCTGGGTCGATTGAAGAAGCACCGAATGT-3′ primers. The PCR product was cloned in pDONR207 by a BP reaction. An LR reaction cloned the chimeric gene in pGWB6 (GATEWAY binary vector, Invitrogen) containing GFP 5′ of the gene. The construct was introduced into the Agrobacterium tumefaciens C58PMP90 strain by electroporation, and then into the A. thaliana TOR-RNAi line by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation using the floral dip method. Homozygous transformants selected by antibiotic resistance were used. Plants were grown vertically on solid MGRL media (0.4% Gelrite, CITATION) supplemented with 4 mM KNO3 and 1% sucrose [nutrient-rich (NR) media] at 22°C with 16 h light/8 h dark cycles for 6–8 d before observation. For nutrient starvation, they were transferred to nitrogen- and sucrose-depleted MGRL solid media (–C–N). In –C–N experiments, the plants were kept in the dark to reduce sucrose production by photosynthesis. In order to quantify the number of autophagic structures observed in Fig. 1, the structures were counted using several (at least five) z-stack merged images. PASs were defined as structures whose diameter was <0.5 µm, while autophagosomes were defined as having a diameter >1 µm. This was done in order to separate the two groups clearly and account for image dispersion occurring when using confocal imagery based on the average structure sizes observed. The number of structures was counted per µm2. All data analysis was performed using ImageJ and Excel. For wortmannin treatment, 1-week old seedlings grown on NR media were transferred to NR or –C–N liquid media containing 5 µM wortmannin prepared from 5 mM stock dissolved in dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO). For E-64d treatment, 1-week-old seedlings were incubated in the dark in MES buffer containing 10 µM E-64d dissolved in DMSO for the period indicated. Concanamycin A treatment was done using a 1 µM concentration as previously described (CITATION). Plants were stained with MDC at 50 µM final concentration for 10 min, and then washed three times with phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) as previously described (Xiong et al. 2006). LTR staining was done with 1 µM LTR in 10 mM HEPES-Na (pH 7.5) as previously described (CITATION), then washed once with PBS and observed. The staining solutions were kept in the dark. Confocal microscopy was done on an Inverted LEICA SP2 AOBS with a 488 nm argon laser for GFP observation (BP 495–530 nm) and a 543 nm laser for LTR observation (BP 570–630 nm). The objective used was an HCX PL APO lbd. BL ×63.0 1.2W water objective. For fluorescence microscopy, an upright Zeiss AXIO Imager Z was used with a DAPI filter (Filter set 49: excitation BP 300–380, beam splitter: 395, emission BP 420–470) for MDC observation and a GFP filter (AHF- F36-720 Sp Green: excitation 484–504, beam splitter: 506, emission HC 517–537 BP) for GFP observation with a Plan-APOCHROMAT ×40/1.3 Oil DIC (UV) VIS-IR Zeiss oil objective (Zeiss #420762-9800). For DIC imagery, a Zeiss Axio Imager M1microscope was used. All resulting images were processed in Image J when necessary.
