!~ABS~! DEAD-box RNA helicases are involved in many aspects of RNA metabolism and in diverse biological processes in plants. Arabidopsis thaliana mutants of two DEAD-box RNA helicases, STRESS RESPONSE SUPPRESSOR1 (STRS1) and STRS2 were previously shown to exhibit tolerance to abiotic stresses and up-regulated stress-responsive gene expression. Here, we show that Arabidopsis STRS-overexpressing lines displayed a less tolerant phenotype and reduced expression of stress-induced genes confirming the STRSs as attenuators of Arabidopsis stress responses. GFP–STRS fusion proteins exhibited localization to the nucleolus, nucleoplasm and chromocenters and exhibited relocalization in response to abscisic acid (ABA) treatment and various stresses. This relocalization was reversed when stress treatments were removed. The STRS proteins displayed mis-localization in specific gene-silencing mutants and exhibited RNA-dependent ATPase and RNA-unwinding activities. In particular, STRS2 showed mis-localization in three out of four mutants of the RNA-directed DNA methylation (RdDM) pathway while STRS1 was mis-localized in the hd2c mutant that is defective in histone deacetylase activity. Furthermore, heterochromatic RdDM target loci displayed reduced DNA methylation and increased expression in the strs mutants. Taken together, our findings suggest that the STRS proteins are involved in epigenetic silencing of gene expression to bring about suppression of the Arabidopsis stress response.
!~RES~! We generated transgenic lines that overexpressed STRS1 and STRS2 (STRS–OX lines) under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter in the strs mutant background, to further strengthen the contention that the STRSs are negative regulators of stress responses. At least four T3 homozygous transgenic lines that expressed a single copy of either STRS1 or STRS2 were assessed by real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for the level of STRS overexpression (Table S1). All transgenic lines exhibited higher expression of the STRS genes compared with wild-type (WT) plants (Figure S1a,b). We selected the STRS1–OX line 6 and the STRS2–OX line 2 for further study because both lines displayed persistent overexpression under salt stress (Figure S1c,d). Because the strs mutants are tolerant to stress, we expected that the STRS–OX lines would display reduced tolerance. The germination rate of WT and mutant lines under stress was compared with the respective germination rate under control conditions. Figure 1(a) shows that seeds of both STRS–OX lines indeed exhibited a greater salt-stress-mediated reduction in germination (e.g. approximately 85% under 150 mm NaCl) than WT (67% reduction). Seeds of the STRS–OX lines were also less tolerant than WT seeds to heat stress during germination (Figure 1b). Accordingly, a 10 h heat stress treatment of 45°C led to a 64 and 67% reduction in germination index of STRS1–OX and STRS2–OX lines, respectively, whereas the WT germination index only fell by 44%. [[FIGURE]] The strs mutants have been previously shown to display up-regulated expression of stress-responsive genes that encode transcriptional activators (Kant et al., CITATION). Although the expression of the transcription factor genes AtMYC2, DREBA1/CBF3, DREB2A and the DREB/CBF target gene RD29A was induced by salt stress in all plant lines examined (Figure 2a), in STRS–OX plants induction of gene expression was reduced significantly compared with WT; peak gene expression at 6 h in the STRS–OX lines was only about 50% of WT. Expression of the housekeeping gene ACTIN2 (ACT2) was unaffected by stress treatments in STRS–OX or WT plants, a finding that suggests a specific role for the STRS proteins in regulating stress-induced gene expression. Similarly, heat-induced expression of genes that encode heat shock proteins HSP101, HSF4 and HSF7 (Prandl et al., CITATION; Hong and Vierling, CITATION; Queitsch et al., CITATION; Kant et al., CITATION) was specifically reduced in the STRS-OX lines (Figure 2b). Taken together, our results reaffirm our hypothesis that the STRS proteins function as negative regulators of the Arabidopsis response to multiple abiotic stresses. [[FIGURE]] In order to examine organ-specific STRS expression, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants that expressed the uidA (GUS) reporter gene under the control of STRS upstream DNA. The STRS promoters are unusually small (approximately 200 bp upstream intergenic region), so plants were produced that expressed GUS under the control of 211 or 856 bp (STRS1) and 241 or 1104 bp (STRS2) upstream DNA. Several independent lines of T3 homozygous, single copy proSTRS1:uidA and proSTRS2:uidA plants were stained histochemically for GUS activity. No GUS staining could be detected in any organ of the proSTRS:uidA lines except in pollen grains (Figures 3a–e and S2). The ‘promoterless’ GUS line showed no staining of any part of the plant (Figure 3f), this result suggested that GUS staining in the anthers was specific to the putative STRS promoters. [[FIGURE]] The observed proSTRS:uidA expression did not agree with previous qPCR analysis showing STRS expression in leaves, roots, stems and inflorescences (Kant et al., CITATION). Several Arabidopsis DEAD-box RNA helicases require both the promoter region and elements within the gene body (e.g. 5′-UTR, introns) for proper expression (Mingam et al., CITATION). In Arabidopsis WT plants that express full-length genomic STRS–uidA fusions and driven by native STRS upstream DNA fragments (proSTRS:gSTRS–uidA lines), GUS activity could be observed in all organs examined (Figures 3g–n and S2), while constitutively high GUS expression was observed in a proCaMV 35S:uidA line (Figures 3p,q and S2). These findings thus confirm previous qPCR results (Kant et al., CITATION) and indicate that a regulatory element(s) within the STRS transcribed region is required for proper organ-specific expression. Inspection of the speckled proSTRS:gSTRS–uidA staining pattern suggested sub-cellular STRS localization in the nuclei (Figure 3r,s). We therefore generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants that express pro35S:GFP–STRS in a WT background. At least four homozygous, single copy T3 lines were produced and two lines that exhibited constitutive overexpression under control and salt stress conditions of either GFP–STRS1 or GFP–STRS2 RNA and protein, were selected for further study (Figure S3a–c). Notably, the STRS proteins were still functional when fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP) as demonstrated by reduced tolerance of pro35S:GFP–STRS seeds during germination under either salt or heat stress, similar to that of the STRS–OX lines (Figures 1 and S3d,e). Figure 4(a,e) shows that the GFP signal in protoplasts transformed with the respective pro35S:GFP–STRS plasmids was localized to the nucleolus with a weaker signal in the nucleoplasm. When GFP was expressed alone, it was observed all over the protoplast (Figure 4i–k) thereby confirming that the nucleolar/nucleoplasmic-localized GFP signal was due to fusion with the STRS proteins. Protoplasts that expressed pro35S:GFP–STRS were also stained with 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI), which stains the nucleus blue but does not stain the nucleolus. No overlap of DAPI staining and GFP signal was observed (Figure 4b–d,f–h), supporting nucleolar STRS localization. pro35S:GFP–STRS transgenic plants exhibited the same nucleolar/nucleoplasmic STRS localization (Figure 4l–q). Finally, co-localization of STRS–GFP proteins with the nucleolar marker protein FIBRILLARIN 1 (FIB1) fused to red fluorescent protein (pro35S:FIB1–RFP) confirmed STRS nucleolar localization (Figure 4r–w). It is well accepted that use of the 35S promoter for GFP localization studies does not affect protein localization (Tian et al., CITATION). Nevertheless, we employed the knowledge gained from our GUS studies, which showed that an element in the STRS transcribed region is required for proper regulation of STRS gene expression to generate a proSTRS2:gSTRS2–GFP construct. Transient expression in protoplasts demonstrated the same nucleolar/nucleoplasmic localization as the 35S:STRS2–GFP construct (Figure S4). [[FIGURE]] The nucleolus is highly dynamic and there is a continuous exchange of nucleolar proteins with the nucleoplasm and cytoplasm (Shaw and Brown, CITATION). To examine whether the STRSs also exhibit relocalization from the nucleolus in response to stress, 7-day-old pro35S:GFP–STRS seedlings were transferred from Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium to fresh MS medium that was supplemented with 200 mm NaCl. Approximately 30 min after transfer, fluorescence was no longer observed in the nucleolus and was distributed uniformly throughout the nucleoplasm (Figure 5a). However, no relocalization of the GFP–STRS signal was observed when seedlings were transferred from MS control plates to fresh MS control plates (Figure 5a, right panel); this result confirmed that nucleolar–nucleoplasmic relocalization had occurred in response to salt stress. Salt stress-mediated co-localization of GFP–STRS with nucleoplasmic-localized RFP–eIF4AIII and DAPI-stained nuclei (Koroleva et al., CITATION) provided further confirmation of salt stress-mediated STRS relocalization to the nucleoplasm (Figure S5). [[FIGURE]] To capture the kinetics of STRS relocalization, 10-day-old pro35S:GFP–STRS seedlings were transferred from control MS plates to a coverslip chamber, which was flushed with either liquid MS or liquid MS supplemented with 200 mm NaCl. Relocalization of the STRS–GFP signal could be observed within 2 min after application of salt stress and indicated rapid STRS relocalization from the nucleolus to the nucleoplasm (Figure 5b). Re-flushing with fresh liquid MS led to a gradual recovery to the nucleolus. Accordingly, 7 min after re-flushing, the GFP–STRS signal re-localized into nucleoplasmic speckles. No recovery of GFP–STRS1 into the nucleolus was observed at this time, although some recovery of GFP–STRS2 could be seen. By 14 min after re-flushing, both GFP–STRS signals could be seen in the nucleolus in addition to nucleoplasmic speckles. These speckles disappeared gradually over the next 16 min until, by 30 min, the GFP–STRS signals resembled the control cells. Continuous salt stress for 1 h did not lead to reappearance of the GFP–STRS signal in the nucleolus (Figure 5c); this finding demonstrated that STRS relocalization back from the nucleoplasm to the nucleolus is part of the recovery process from stress. Notably, fibrillarin, a component of a nucleolar small nuclear ribonucleoprotein (Reichow et al., CITATION), remained in the nucleolus in both unstressed and salt-stressed seedlings (Figure 5d); this finding excluded the possibility of a stress-induced breakup of the nucleolus and affirmed that relocalization is an inherent feature of STRS proteins. Furthermore, the fast nucleolar–nucleoplasmic shuttling suggested that the STRS proteins are loosely bound at nucleolar sites. This suggestion was confirmed by fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP) assays (Zemach et al., CITATION), which showed that the GFP–STRS signal in the nucleolus recovered to about 85% of its pre-bleached level in about 10 sec (Figure S6). Nucleolar–nucleoplasmic STRS relocalization was also induced following ABA application, osmotic stress and exposure to heat (Figure 5e–g). However, whereas salt stress caused relocalization to the nucleoplasm within 2 min (Figure 5b), relocalization took approximately 45 min in response to ABA and osmotic stress, and 60 min in response to heat stress. Furthermore, the GFP–STRS signal re-localized transiently to a few chromosomal sites that were likely to be chromocenters (Figure 5e,f: 15, 25 or 35 min) in response to ABA or osmotic stress. Re-flushing with fresh liquid MS led to localization of the GFP–STRS protein back to the nucleolus at approximately 10, 16 or 30 min after ABA, osmotic stress or heat stress, respectively; no nucleoplasmic speckles were observed as was seen after recovery from salt stress (see Figure 5b). Inspection of GFP–STRS fluorescence in the nucleoplasm indicated that the STRSs may also be localized to chromocenters (Figures 6a,b and S7a,b), intense DAPI-stained regions of heterochromatic DNA that are generally transcriptionally inactive (Fransz et al., CITATION). Chromocentric STRS localization was confirmed by immunolabeling using anti-GFP against nuclei isolated from unstressed WT and GFP–STRS plants followed by FISH with fluorescein-12-dUTP-labeled centromeric 180-bp repeats (CEN180; Avivi et al., CITATION). Figures 6(c,d) and S7(c,d) show that the GFP–STRS proteins co-localized with CEN180 repeats as well as with the nucleolus. However, no chromocenter-associated GFP signal was observed in nuclei of plants that had been subjected to 1 h of salt stress (Figures 6f and S7f). It is unlikely that this result was due to stress-mediated break-down of the chromocenters because the CEN180 signal was clearly visible in nuclei from stressed WT and pro35S:GFP–STRS1 plants (Figures 6e,f and S7e,f). However, the GFP signal accumulated in the nucleolar rim suggesting possible relocalization from the chromocenters to this sub-nuclear region. [[FIGURE]] The chromocentric STRS localization suggested that the STRSs may be involved in gene silencing, a notion that would be consistent with their role as negative regulators of gene expression (Figure 2; Kant et al., CITATION) and their stress-mediated relocalization out of the chromocenters (Figure 6). To test this hypothesis, we obtained 17 Arabidopsis mutant plants that are defective in genes selected in accordance with their similar localization pattern to the STRSs (e.g. Pendle et al., CITATION), their involvement in gene silencing, mutant plants that exhibited increased/reduced stress tolerance or displayed a high co-expression correlation coefficient with the STRSs (CBF5; Lermontova et al., CITATION). Protoplasts from each mutant were transformed with the pro35S:GFP–STRS constructs to determine whether any of the mutations led to aberrant STRS localization. Details of the various mutants examined are provided in Table 1. STRS2 exhibited perturbed localization in three mutants, drd1, dc13 and rdr2 (Figure 7), that are part of the RNA-directed DNA methylation (RdDM) gene-silencing mechanism at repetitive heterochromatic loci (Kanno et al., CITATION, CITATION; Law et al., CITATION, CITATION; Castel and Martienssen, CITATION). STRS2 localization was also perturbed in a mutant of the SUVH4/KYP gene that is involved in maintenance of histone (H3K9) methylation (Jackson et al., CITATION; Malagnac et al., CITATION) and may also be linked to RdDM (Castel and Martienssen, CITATION). Finally, aberrant STRS2 localization was observed in a mutant of the LHP1 gene that has a role in H3K27 methylation-induced gene silencing in euchromatin (Nakahigashi et al., CITATION; Exner et al., CITATION). STRS1 exhibited WT localization in the drd1, dc13, rdr2, suvh4/kyp and lhp1 mutants but displayed perturbed localization in the hd2c mutant. HD2C is a histone deacetylase that is involved in ABA and salt stress responses and that interacts with HDA6, a histone deacetylase functioning in heterochromatic DNA silencing (Earley et al., CITATION; To et al., CITATION; Luo et al., CITATION). Both STRS1 and STRS2 exhibited aberrant localization in the cbf5 mutant. CBF5 displays nucleolar and Cajal body localization, and may be involved in small ribonucleoprotein splicing functions (Lermontova et al., CITATION). However, whereas STRS1 localized to nuclear bodies in cbf5, STRS2 exhibited uniform nucleoplasmic localization. Both STRS1 and STRS2 localization was also perturbed in a mutant of At3g58660 that encoded an L1p/L10e ribosomal protein. In mutants of AGO4 (part of the RdDM machinery (Castel and Martienssen, CITATION)), eIF4A-III (a DEAD-box RNA helicase and part of the exon-junction complex (Koroleva et al., CITATION)) and the sdc mutant (a drm1 drm2 cmt3 triple mutant lacking CHG and CHH methylation (Henderson and Jacobsen, CITATION)), both STRSs displayed WT localization. [[FIGURE]] To assess whether the STRSs function in gene silencing, we compared transcript levels of the AtSN1 and AtCopia2 transposons, and the intergenic repeat sequence solo-LTR, in WT and the strs mutants, as a measure of RdDM-mediated transcriptional silencing of these heterochromatic loci (Zheng et al., CITATION). Figure 8(a) shows that AtSN1 and solo-LTR exhibited increased expression in the strs mutants compared with WT, which indicated de-repression of these loci (Xie et al., CITATION; Herr et al., CITATION; Huettel et al., CITATION). AtCopia2 expression only displayed up-regulation in the strs2 mutant. Furthermore, digestion of genomic DNA with the methylation-sensitive HaeIII restriction enzyme followed by PCR amplification with primers specific for AtSN1 demonstrated reduced DNA methylation at this locus in the strs mutants (Figure 8b). Methylation was particularly reduced in strs2; this result was consistent with greater de-repression of transcriptional silencing in this mutant. Overall, the results support our contention that STRS1 and STRS2 may both play a role in RdDM-mediated gene silencing. [[FIGURE]] STRS1 and STRS2 possess all the conserved motifs of DEAD-box RNA helicases (Kant et al., CITATION), which have been implicated in RNA interference (RNAi) pathways (reviewed in Ambrus and Frolov, CITATION). To determine whether these proteins possess intrinsic RNA-dependent ATPase activity, purified His-tagged STRS proteins (Figure S8a) were employed in a coupled spectrophotometric assay (Panuska and Goldthwait, CITATION). In the absence of RNA and STRS protein, or with RNA alone, only a slight reduction in ATPase activity (detected as a reduction in A338) was observed, while the decrease in absorbance was higher when both RNA and STRS protein were included in the reaction (Figure 9a). Thus, both STRS1 and STRS2 possess an RNA-dependent ATPase activity. [[FIGURE]] To examine whether the STRSs exhibit RNA-unwinding activity, the ability of purified His-tagged STRS protein (Figure S8b–e) to unwind a fluorescently labeled synthetic RNA duplex was examined. The appearance of single-stranded RNA and the concomitant disappearance of the 18-/36-mer RNA duplex demonstrated that the STRSs indeed possess an ATP/Mg2+-dependent RNA-unwinding activity (Figures 9b–e and S8f). This activity was not the result of contaminating E. coli protein (Figure S9). Only 0.1 μg of STRS2 protein was required to dissociate fully the RNA duplex in 10 min, whereas 2.5 μg STRS1 protein could not complete unwinding by 40 min; this finding suggested that STRS2 may possess higher helicase activity than STRS1. We also showed that purified GFP–STRS proteins retained RNA-unwinding activity (Figure S3f,g), thereby providing further confirmation that the GFP tag does not impede STRS function. Collectively, our results establish the STRSs as bona fide RNA helicases.
!~MM~! WT Arabidopsis and strs mutants (Col-0) were used to generate transgenic plants. Seeds of the following T-DNA insertion mutants (Alonso et al., CITATION) were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Research Center (ABRC; The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH): aly4 (SALK_111903), ddb1a (SALK_055584C), eif4a-III (SAIL_174_A01), hd2c (SALK_129799C), hsp101 (SALK_099583C), 11p/110e (SALK_132996), rnps1 (SALK_123442C), rp13 (SALK_040503), yao (SALK_022234). The ago4, cbf5, dc13, ddm1, drd1, lhp1, nrpd1a, rdr2, sdc and suvh4/kyp mutants have been described previously (Vongs et al., CITATION; Gaudin et al., CITATION; Cao and Jacobsen, CITATION; Jackson et al., CITATION; Zilberman et al., CITATION; Kanno et al., CITATION; Xie et al., CITATION; Herr et al., CITATION; Lermontova et al., CITATION). Seeds of FIB1–GFP (NASC ID: N799457) were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre. For plate and soil experiments, seeds were germinated and grown in accordance with Kant et al. (CITATION). For gene expression experiments, 10-day-old seedlings were transferred from MS plates to soil at a density of 6–10 plants per pot. For primer sequences, cloning and plant transformation see Methods S1 and Table S1. All transformants employed for analysis were T3 generation plants harboring a single homozygous copy of the transgene. Salt stress and basal thermotolerance germination assays as well as analysis of stress-responsive gene expression were performed in accordance with Kant et al. (CITATION) except that plants were exposed to 45°C for heat-induced gene expression. Four replicate plates were used per treatment. Stress germination assays were repeated independently at least three times while gene expression experiments were repeated twice. Statistical analysis was performed with Tmev software (Saeed et al., CITATION). Isolation of total RNA, preparation of cDNA, primer design, qPCR and data analysis were performed in accordance with Kant et al. (CITATION) except that reactions contained 5 μl PerfeCTa® SYBR® Green Fast Mix® (Quanta Biosciences, Gaithersburg, MD, USA), 40 ng cDNA and 100–500 nm of gene-specific primer in a final volume of 10 μl (see Methods S1). See Table S1 for primer sequences. GUS activity was detected by histochemical staining of 2.5-week-old plant material in accordance with Vitha et al. (CITATION). Following staining, tissue was stored in 50% glycerol at room temperature before being mounted in 100% glycerol on microscopic slides. Tissue was photographed using a Nikon Eclipse TE2000-U microscope with a digital camera DXM1200F or Nikon SMZ1500 stereomicroscope with a digital sight DS-L1 (Nikon Instruments, Melville, NY, USA). For transient expression, leaves from 2.5-week-old Arabidopsis WT plants and various gene-silencing mutants were used for isolation and transformation of protoplasts as described (molbio.mgh.harvard.edu/sheenweb/protocols_reg.html). Fluorescence signals were examined 12–16 h after transformation. Protoplasts were subsequently stained with 4′,6- diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI). For analysis of transient transformation of hydroponically grown roots (Figure S4), and analysis of GFP localization in stable transgenic plants see Methods S1. For localization in chromocenters, nuclei of young leaves from 14-day-old soil-grown pro35S:GFP–STRS lines under control conditions or after 1 h treatment with 200 mm NaCl were isolated in accordance with Fass et al. (CITATION). GFP immunolabeling followed by FISH assay was performed as described (Avivi et al., CITATION). Slides were mounted in Vectashield solution (Vector Laboratories, Inc., Burlingame, CA, USA) for fluorescence detection. For numbers of cells counted in each experiment see Figure S10. FRAP assays were performed for nucleolar-localized STRSs proteins using a ×63 oil immersion objective mounted on a Zeiss LSM 510 confocal microscope (Carl Zeiss, Oberkochen, Germany). GFP images were obtained using an excitation wavelength of 488 nm while fluorescence signals were detected using a 505–550 nm band-pass filter. A background fluorescence image was generated at a maximum speed of 150 msec using 1% laser power for 2 sec before the bleach. A circular area of diameter 3 μm (7 μm2 area) was photobleached with 100% laser power for 0.1 sec and the rate of fluorescence recovery of the bleached region was immediately monitored by imaging scans using 4% of laser power at 150 msec intervals until no further recovery of the signal was observed (approximately 40 sec). The relative fluorescence intensity was normalized to the non-bleached signal after subtraction of the background signal. Each experiment was repeated three times and comprised an average of 18 cells per experiment. Statistical significance was determined by Student's t-test. DNA methylation level of the AtSN1 locus was detected by chop-PCR. Genomic DNA was digested with the DNA-methylation-sensitive HaeIII restriction enzyme and used for PCR amplification of target DNA sequences. See Table S1 for primer sequences and Methods S1 for full chop-PCR protocol. His-tagged STRS constructs were transformed into E. coli strain BL21 (DE3; Promega, Madison, WI, USA) for expression and purified on an affinity FPLC-NiNTA column (His Trap HP; GE Healthcare Life Sciences, Little Chalfont, Buckinghamshire, UK). STRS ATPase activity and RNA-unwinding activity were determined as described by Iost et al. (CITATION) and Garbelli et al. (CITATION), respectively.
