!~ABS~! Arabidopsis thaliana respiratory burst oxidase homolog D (RbohD) functions as an essential regulator of reactive oxygen species (ROS). However, our understanding of the regulation of RbohD remains limited. By variable-angle total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy, we demonstrate that green fluorescent protein (GFP)-RbohD organizes into dynamic spots at the plasma membrane. These RbohD spots have heterogeneous diffusion coefficients and oligomerization states, as measured by photobleaching techniques. Stimulation with ionomycin and calyculin A, which activate the ROS-producing enzymatic activity of RbohD, increases the diffusion and oligomerization of RbohD. Abscisic acid and flg22 treatments also increase the diffusion coefficient and clustering of GFP-RbohD. Single-particle analysis in clathrin heavy chain2 mutants and a Flotillin1 artificial microRNA line demonstrated that clathrin- and microdomain-dependent endocytic pathways cooperatively regulate RbohD dynamics. Under salt stress, GFP-RbohD assembles into clusters and then internalizes into the cytoplasm. Dual-color fluorescence cross-correlation spectroscopy analysis further showed that salt stress stimulates RbohD endocytosis via membrane microdomains. We demonstrate that microdomain-associated RbohD spots diffuse at the membrane with high heterogeneity, and these dynamics closely relate to RbohD activity. Our results provide insight into the regulation of RbohD activity by clustering and endocytosis, which facilitate the activation of redox signaling pathways.
!~RES~! To examine the dynamic behavior of RbohD at the plasma membrane in Arabidopsis, we generated transgenic plants expressing an N-terminal GFP fused to RbohD under the control of the native RbohD promoter. We confirmed that the GFP-RbohD protein retains function by complementing the rbohD mutant phenotype for plant growth (Figures 1A to 1C) and ROS production (Figures 1D to 1F). Laser scanning confocal microscopy of the seedlings revealed that GFP-RbohD was expressed in most tissues (Supplemental Figure 1A), consistent with previous reports and the available microarray data (CITATION) and with the proposed housekeeping role for RbohD. GFP-RbohD targeted to the plasma membrane of epidermal cells, with high expression in the leaves, stomata, hypocotyls, and roots (Figures 1G to 1I). We further analyzed the distribution of fluorescent signals of GFP-RbohD and the membrane marker FM4-64. Most FM4-64 fluorescence colocalized with the green GFP-RbohD fluorescence at the plasma membrane. FM4-64 internalization increased with incubation time, and we also observed some intracellular colocalization of GFP-RbohD with FM4-64 (Figure 1J). To determine whether plasma membrane localization of GFP-RbohD depends on vesicle trafficking, we next used the vesicle transport inhibitor brefeldin A (BFA), which can block vesicle transport from endoplasmic reticulum to Golgi by interfering with COP I vesicle formation, resulting in the accumulation of plasma membrane proteins in BFA compartments. BFA treatment caused GFP-RbohD to accumulate in the BFA compartment, where it colocalized with FM4-64 (Figure 1K). To rule out the possibility that the appearance of GFP-RbohD in the intracellular FM4-64–positive vesicles was due to newly synthesized protein, we further investigated the localization of GFP-RbohD in the presence of the specific protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide (CHX). After pretreatment with CHX for 30 min, the transgenic seedlings were incubated with FM4-64. We observed colocalization of FM4-64 and GFP-RbohD in the cytoplasm (Supplemental Figure 1B). In addition, FM4-64 and GFP-RbohD still accumulated in the BFA compartment in the presence of CHX (Supplemental Figure 1C). These results indicate that constitutive endocytic turnover is likely an important process for maintaining GFP-RbohD at the plasma membrane. [[FIGURE]] We then used VA-TIRFM to monitor the in vivo dynamics of RbohD at the plasma membrane. This technique allows us to image the plant cell cortex at high resolution and with a high signal-to-noise ratio (CITATION; CITATION). In the hypocotyl epidermal cells of the seedlings, GFP-RbohD fluorescent foci formed discreet spots, instead of distributing uniformly in the plasma membrane (Figure 2A). Although we observed a few immobile spots, most of the spots were mobile at the plasma membrane (Supplemental Movie 1 and Supplemental Data Set 1). GFP-RbohD spots exhibited various mobile behaviors in the focal plane of the cell cortex, and most moved within the imaging plane before disappearing (Figure 2B). Some spots with high fluorescence intensity disappeared after long-duration residence at the plasma membrane. Other spots first appeared with low fluorescence intensity; after reaching peak intensity, their fluorescence then decreased and the spots disappeared (Figure 2C). The kymograph also shows the turnover of single GFP-RbohD spots (Figure 2D). We further investigated the dynamic properties of GFP-RbohD at the plasma membrane by determining the lateral mobility of GFP-RbohD using single-particle tracking and a linear fit of mean square displacement (MSD) versus time plots. We used the rolling ball method to subtract the background of the images and plotted the diffusion coefficients on histograms and then fitted the data using the Gaussian function, in which we defined the Gaussian peaks (indicated as Ĝ) as the characteristic diffusion coefficients. In control seedlings, we found that Ĝ was 2.26 ± 0.19 × 10−2 μm2/s, with most of the diffusion coefficients ranging from 3.16 × 10−3 to 1.8 × 10−1 μm2/s (Figure 3A), indicating a highly heterogeneous diffusion mobility for GFP-RbohD at the plasma membrane. In addition, when we analyzed the raw images without subtracting the background, we found that the diffusion coefficient of GFP-RbohD was 2.32 ± 0.13 × 10−2 μm2/s, similar to that of the processed images (Supplemental Figure 1D). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To evaluate the oligomerization state of GFP-RbohD at the plasma membrane, we performed calibration experiments examining purified GFP monomers by VA-TIRFM to determine the fluorescence intensity of a single GFP-RbohD molecule. Fluorescence intensities of the purified GFP monomers exhibited a unimodal distribution with a peak intensity of ∼78 counts (Supplemental Figure 2). Furthermore, we used VA-TIRFM to image the fluorescence intensity distribution of GFP-RbohD particles in living cells. The fluorescence intensities were broadly distributed, with most in the range of 50 to 140 counts, which corresponds to one or two GFP molecules (Figure 3B). To further investigate the number of GFP-RbohD molecules in individual spots, we used single-molecule photobleaching, as previously described (CITATION). To reduce signal fluctuation due to the diffusion of GFP-RbohD in living-cell membranes, we performed photobleaching in fixed seedlings. The number of bleaching steps ranged from one to two (Figures 3C and 3D), indicating that GFP-RbohD spots include a mixture of monomers and dimers at the plasma membrane. Ca2+ binding and phosphorylation synergistically activate the enzymatic activity of RbohD (CITATION; CITATION). Thus, we investigated whether these factors also affect the lateral diffusion of RbohD at the plasma membrane. We first analyzed the effect of diphenyleneiodonium (DPI), a well-known NADPH inhibitor, on the lateral mobility of GFP-RbohD. DPI treatment caused a significant decrease in Ĝ, from 2.26 ± 0.19 × 10−2 μm2/s in control conditions to 1.68 ± 0.08 × 10−2 μm2/s (P < 0.01) in GFP-RbohD seedlings (Figure 4A; Supplemental Movie 2 and Supplemental Data Set 1). In addition, DPI caused the dimerization state of GFP-RbohD to decrease from 28% in control to 24% (Figure 4D), indicating that DPI may exert a specific effect on the dynamics of GFP-RbohD. We then compared the dynamic behavior of GFP-RbohD and GFP-Lti6a (an internal marker of the plasma membrane) at the plasma membrane in the presence of DPI. Like GFP-RbohD, GFP-Lti6a also formed distinct spots at the plasma membrane (Supplemental Figure 3A). The diffusion coefficient of GFP-Lti6a ranged from 5.62 × 10−3 μm2/s to 3.15 × 10−1 μm2/s, with a Ĝ value of 2.43 ± 0.11 × 10−2 μm2/s (Supplemental Figure 3B). We further examined the distribution of fluorescence intensity of GFP-Lti6a, which ranged from 120 to 360 counts (Supplemental Figure 3C). We found no significant change in the diffusion coefficient of GFP-Lti6a in cells treated with DPI, and the Ĝ value was 2.22 ± 0.10 × 10−2 μm2/s (P > 0.05) (Supplemental Figure 3D), indicating that DPI specifically affected the mobility of GFP-RbohD. We also found that increasing Ca2+ influx through the plasma membrane, using the Ca2+ ionophore ionomycin, caused fluorescence intensities of GFP-RbohD spots to skew to higher values (Figure 4B; Supplemental Movie 3 and Supplemental Data Set 1). In addition to the increase in the diffusion coefficient, from 2.26 ± 0.19 × 10−2 μm2/s in the control to 4.10 ± 0.30 × 10−2 μm2/s (Figure 4C), increased intracellular Ca2+ levels also caused an increase in the dimerization state of GFP-RbohD to 76% (P < 0.01; Figure 4D). However, in the presence of ionomycin, both the diffusion coefficient and intensity of GFP-Lti6a spots showed no significant changes (Supplemental Figures 3E and 3F). [[FIGURE]] We then investigated the effect of phosphorylation on the dynamics of GFP-RbohD using the Ser/Thr protein phosphatase inhibitor calyculin A and the general kinase inhibitor K-252a. Calyculin A caused an increase in both the diffusion coefficient of GFP-RbohD, to 3.49 ± 0.13 × 10−2 μm2/s (Figure 4E; Supplemental Movie 4 and Supplemental Data Set 1), and its dimerization state, to 55% (P < 0.05; Figure 4D). By contrast, the diffusion coefficient and intensity of GFP-Lti6a spots did not change significantly in seedlings treated with calyculin A (Supplemental Figures 3G and 3H). In contrast to calyculin A, K-252a caused a reduction in the diffusion coefficient to 1.47 ± 0.10 × 10−2 μm2/s (Figure 4F) and the dimerization state to 22% (Figure 4D). However, K-252a had no significant effect on the diffusion coefficient of GFP-Lti6a (Supplemental Figure 3I). These results suggest that Ca2+ and phosphorylation, the key regulators of NADPH oxidase activity, also affect the lateral mobility of GFP-RbohD, indicating a close relationship between RbohD enzymatic activity and protein dynamics at the plasma membrane. As RbohD plays an important role in abscisic acid (ABA) responses, we used VA-TIRFM to examine the effects of ABA on the dynamics of GFP-RbohD. ABA induced an increase in the mobility of GFP-RbohD, and the diffusion coefficient increased to 5.32 ± 0.29 × 10−2 μm2/s (Supplemental Figure 4A, Supplemental Movie 5, and Supplemental Data Set 1). The distribution of GFP-RbohD protein intensity also skewed to higher values, which ranged from 80 to 200 counts (Supplemental Figure 4B), and the number of dimers increased to 75% (Supplemental Figure 4E). In addition, flg22 increased the mobility and intensity of GFP-RbohD, as compared with the control. In the presence of flg22, the diffusion coefficient increased to 4.65 ± 0.41× 10−2 μm2/s (Supplemental Figure 4C, Supplemental Movie 6, and Supplemental Data Set 1). The intensity of GFP-RbohD ranged from 100 to 210 counts Supplemental Figure 4D), and the number of dimers increased to 83% (Supplemental Figure 4E). These results further indicated that both ABA and flg22 can increase RbohD mobility and induce its clustering at the plasma membrane. Endocytosis plays an important role in controlling the internalization of nutrients and the composition of the plasma membrane. Clathrin-mediated endocytosis has been extensively characterized (CITATION) and clathrin-coated pits facilitate the diffusion of plasma membrane proteins (CITATION; CITATION). Tyrphostin A23 (TyrA23), which inhibits mammalian AP-2 binding of endocytic cargo, inhibits clathrin-mediated endocytosis in mammalian and plant cells (CITATION; CITATION). Thus, we investigated whether TyrA23 affects GFP-RbohD dynamics. The results showed that TyrA23 not only increased the number of GFP-RbohD spots but also caused an increase in the size and fluorescence intensity of the spots (Figure 5A; Supplemental Figure 5). In contrast, the diffusion coefficient of GFP-RbohD spots decreased, mostly in the range 1× 10−3 to 1.0 × 10−1 μm2/s, and Ĝ was 1.54 ± 0.93 × 10−2 μm2/s, markedly lower than the control (Figure 5B; Supplemental Movie 7 and Supplemental Data Set 1). To further examine the effects of the clathrin-dependent pathway in the internalization of RbohD, we crossed GFP-RbohD and chc2-1, a clathrin heavy-chain (CHC) mutant. As shown in Figure 5C, numerous GFP-RbohD spots accumulated at the membrane in the mutant, and some of the spots clustered into large particles. Additionally, the lateral mobility of GFP-RbohD also decreased significantly, to a Ĝ of 1.95 ± 0.10 × 10−2 μm2/s (Figure 5D). We further analyzed the effects of Tyrphostin A51 (TyrA51), the inactive analog of TyrA23, and found that TyrA51 had no significant effect on the distribution and dynamics of GFP-RbohD (Figure 5E, F). In seedlings treated with TyrA51, the diffusion coefficients of RbohD ranged from 5.62 ×10−3 μm2/s to 1.78 ×10−1 μm2/s, with a Ĝ value of 2.30 ± 0.09 ×10−2 μm2/s (Figure 5F). We also found that TyrA51 did not affect the size, fluorescence intensity, or density of GFP-RbohD spots (Supplemental Figures 5 and 7A). [[FIGURE]] To further address the role of clathrin in RbohD trafficking in plant cells, we generated transgenic plants that expressed an mCherry-tagged RbohD translational fusion under the control of the native promoter and evaluated the colocalization of RbohD and clathrin. We used dual-color VA-TIRFM to image seedlings coexpressing mCherry-RbohD and CLC-GFP. To investigate cortical mCherry-RbohD and CLC-GFP dynamics, we chose spots in which both mCherry-RbohD and CLC-GFP were present and determined their codiffusion at the membrane. For quantification, we considered the particles to codiffuse when at least one pixel of their fluorescence signals overlapped during at least five frames, with an interval of 200 ms, as previously reported (CITATION). We found that mCherry-RbohD colocalized with CLC-GFP and codiffused away from the focus gradually, indicating that RbohD internalization associates with the clathrin-dependent pathway (Figures 6A to 6D). We also made more precise calculations by tracking the trajectories of these spots according to the method reported previously (CITATION). These spots codiffused at the plasma membrane for 6.6 s and kept their distance within 100 nm to each other (Figure 6E). To quantify the degree of colocalization, we calculated the protein proximity index (PPI) (CITATION; CITATION). PPI is a quantitative measure of the colocalization of proteins, which can give a value between 0 (0% colocalization) and 0.96 ± 0.03 (100% colocalization). Figure 6F shows a 3D plot of the cross-correlation of mCherry-RbohD and CLC-GFP as a function of pixel shift. A sharp peak at the zero pixel shift that decays abruptly by moving the image in the x and y axes, further supporting specific colocalization. The mean protein proximity value was 0.54 ± 0.1, which further confirmed the specific RbohD and CLC association in the cell cortex. [[FIGURE]] Sterol- and sphingolipid-enriched membrane microdomains may modulate the localization and activity of certain membrane proteins (CITATION). For example, membrane microdomains affect NOX-dependent ROS signaling in Picea meyeri pollen tube growth (CITATION). Furthermore, a previous plant proteomics analysis identified RbohD in the detergent-resistant membrane fraction (CITATION). Therefore, we investigated the role of membrane microdomains in GFP-RbohD dynamics using the sterol-disrupting agent methyl-β-cyclodextrin (mβCD). External application of mβCD resulted in redistribution of GFP-RbohD into small clusters with larger sizes (Figures 7A and 7B) and an increased fluorescence intensity (Supplemental Figure 5). Interestingly, mβCD treatment induced changes in the distribution of the diffusion coefficients into two subpopulations, one of which exhibited a diffusion coefficient similar to control cells, and the other with slower diffusion (3 × 10−4 to 3 × 10−3 μm2/s; Figure 7C; Supplemental Movie 8 and Supplemental Data Set 1). These results imply that sterol-based membrane microdomains affect the localization and dynamics of GFP-RbohD. To further investigate the role of these microdomains in the regulation of RbohD, we performed parallel experiments by introducing GFP-RbohD into the sterol-deficient mutant dry2/sqe1-5. dry2/sqe1-5 is a hypomorphic allele of SQUALENE EPOXIDASE1 (SQE1), which functions in the synthesis of sterols in plant development and shows very low ROS production due to mislocalization of NADPH oxidases (CITATION). As previously reported, GFP-RbohD was mainly confined to the plasma membrane in control seedlings (Figures 7D to 7F). However, we observed faint and discontinuous GFP-RbohD fluorescence in dry2/sqe1-5 seedlings (Figures 7G and 7H). Additionally, some GFP-RbohD spots were located near the membrane and in the cytoplasm (Figure 7I). These findings indicated a close relationship between GFP-RbohD localization and membrane microdomains. [[FIGURE]] We further examined the relationship between RbohD and membrane microdomains by analyzing the colocalization of RbohD with the membrane microdomain marker Flotillin1 (Flot1) (CITATION), which is involved in a clathrin-independent endocytosis pathway in plant cells (CITATION). Under dual-color VA-TIRFM, we found that both mCherry-RbohD and GFP-Flot1 foci formed clear spots at the plasma membrane, some of which were overlaid when the two channels were merged, suggesting partial colocalization (Figures 8A to 8C). To evaluate the relative contribution of membrane microdomains to the regulation of mobility of RbohD, we also analyzed the codiffusion of mCherry-RbohD and GFP-Flot1 (Figures 8D and 8E). We found that mCherry-RbohD and GFP-Flot1 colocalization disappeared gradually with increasing distance from the focus. This result eliminated the possibility that colocalization represented simple, random overlap of highly dense spots at the membrane. The trajectories of these spots further showed that mCherry-RbohD and GFP-Flot1 codiffused at the plasma membrane for 8 s (Figure 8F) at a distance of within 120 nm. We also evaluated the degree of colocalization using the PPI method. Figure 8G depicts a 3D cross-correlation plot of Figure 8D as a function of pixel shift, a sharp peak at the zero pixel shift that decayed abruptly upon movement of the image in the x and y axes, indicating their specific colocalization. The mean PPI was 0.26 ± 0.06. We also detected lateral mobility of GFP-RbohD spots in the Flot1 artificial microRNA (amiRNA) knockdown line, which shows a reduction in Flot1 transcript level and growth defects (CITATION). As shown in Figure 8H, the diffusion coefficient of GFP-RbohD spots shifted to lower values, and Ĝ was 2.0 ± 0.19 × 10−2 μm2/s, further confirming that the lateral diffusion of RbohD depends on the membrane microdomain. Additionally, to investigate the role of Ca2+ and phosphorylation in the colocalization of RbohD and Flot1, we treated seedlings coexpressing mCherry-RbohD and GFP-Flot1 with ionomycin or calyculin A and then imaged them with VA-TIRFM. The results showed that the mean protein proximity value increased to 0.42 ± 0.09 (P < 0.01) and 0.35 ± 0.04 (P < 0.05) (n = 10 cells) after ionomycin and calyculin A treatments, respectively, indicating that both Ca2+ and phosphorylation enhanced mCherry-RbohD and GFP-Flot1 colocalization. [[FIGURE]] RbohD plays a key role in the response to salt stress, and salt acclimation requires the ROS generated by RbohD (CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, we used FM4-64 to investigate the dynamics and endocytic pathways of GFP-RbohD under salt stress. Under control conditions, GFP-RbohD localizes homogenously with FM4-64 at the plasma membrane, as assessed by confocal microscopy (Figure 9A). Treatment with 100 mM NaCl produced a change in the distribution of GFP-RbohD and the appearance of GFP-RbohD in discrete intracellular patches labeled with FM4-64 (Figure 9B), suggesting that salt stress enhanced the endocytosis of GFP-RbohD. We then assessed the changes in dynamic partitioning of GFP-RbohD caused by NaCl treatment using VA-TIRFM. Consistent with increased endocytosis, NaCl treatment induced a decrease in the number of GFP-RbohD spots at the plasma membrane (Figure 9C), while the diffusion coefficient of the GFP-RbohD spots increased (Figure 9D; Supplemental Movie 9 and Supplemental Data Set 1), ranging from 5.9 × 10−3 to 3.1 × 10−1 μm2/s. Also, Ĝ was 4.84 ± 0.38 × 10−2 μm2/s after treatment with 100 mM NaCl versus 2.26 ± 0.19 × 10−2 μm2/s under control conditions. In seedlings treated with NaCl and mβCD or NaCl and TyrA23, the Ĝ of GFP-RbohD decreased to 3.0 ± 0.10 × 10−2 μm2/s and 1.79 ± 0.11 × 10−2 μm2/s, respectively (Figures 9E and 9F; Supplemental Movies 10 and 11 and Supplemental Data Set 1), suggesting that NaCl treatment increased the endocytosis of GFP-RbohD and that disruption of the membrane microdomains and clathrin-coated pits differentially inhibited the diffusion of GFP-RbohD. Furthermore, we analyzed the abundance of protein in the presence of salt stress using immunoblots. We found that NaCl induced the degradation of GFP-RbohD to some extent. However, wortmannin, an efficient inhibitor of protein trafficking to the plant vacuole (CITATION; CITATION), inhibited the degradation of GFP-RbohD compared with the control seedlings (Supplemental Figure 6). [[FIGURE]] To further investigate the relationship between RbohD localization and recycling at the plasma membrane, we measured the density of GFP-RbohD at the plasma membrane by FCS. This technique allows analysis of fluorescence intensity fluctuation within the focal volume of the laser beam. Stable fluorescence fluctuation indicated that no significant photobleaching effects occurred during the detection time. The mean density of GFP-RbohD was 29.84 ± 4.12 molecules/μm2 in control seedlings. Treatment with TyrA23 and mβCD caused an increase of the GFP-RbohD density to 49.97 ± 6.43 and 35.16 ± 4.87 molecules/µm2, respectively, suggesting that clathrin-dependent endocytosis is the main pathway for internalization of GFP-RbohD. In the presence of NaCl, GFP-RbohD density decreased to 17.43 ± 3.59 molecules/µm2, further supporting the NaCl-induced internalization of GFP-RbohD. However, when seedlings were pretreated with TyrA23 or mβCD before NaCl treatment, GFP-RbohD density increased to 40.95 ± 4.65 and 30.34 ± 3.23 molecules/µm2, respectively, indicating that the disruption of these endocytic pathways differentially inhibited NaCl-induced GFP-RbohD internalization (Supplemental Figure 7A). To further evaluate whether the interactions of mCherry-RbohD with clathrin-dependent endocytosis or membrane microdomain protein Flot1 changed under different conditions, we applied dual-color FCCS to seedlings coexpressing mCherry-RbohD and either CLC-GFP or GFP-Flot1. FCCS facilitates quantitative investigation of protein interactions in live cells (CITATION), in which fluctuations of two different fluorescence signals are recorded simultaneously and analyzed using a cross-correlation function (CITATION). The relative cross-correlation amplitude of seedlings coexpressing mCherry-RbohD and CLC-GFP was 0.52 ± 0.09 (n = 30), while that of seedlings coexpressing mCherry-RbohD and GFP-Flot1 was 0.41 ± 0.12 (n = 30; Supplemental Figure 7B). After NaCl treatment, the cross-correlation of mCherry-RbohD with CLC-GFP increased to 0.61 ± 0.07 (a 17% increase) while that with GFP-Flot1 increased to 0.54 ± 0.1 (a 32% increase), both showing significant differences. Overall, these results support the notion that GFP-RbohD is internalized via both clathrin-dependent and membrane raft–associated pathways.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana ecotypes Columbia-0 and Landsberg erecta (Ler) were used as wild-type controls. The dry2/sqe1-5 mutants were a generous gift from Miguel A. Botella (Universidad de Málaga), and the rbohD mutants were a generous gift from Miguel Angel Torres (John Innes Institute). Flot1 amiRNA knockdown lines were developed in our laboratory (CITATION). chc 2-1 mutants were a generous gift from Jiří Friml (Ghent University). GFP-LTi6a lines were described elsewhere (CITATION). Seeds were surface-sterilized and germinated on half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium in phytagar after 1 to 2 days at 4°C and grown on vertically oriented plates at 24°C under stable long-day (16-h light/8-h dark) conditions. The RbohD coding region was amplified from a cDNA library derived from seedlings of Arabidopsis and subcloned into the binary plant expression vector pCMBIA2300 under the control of the native promoter. The GFP sequence was cloned from pM999-GFP (kindly provided by Jianxu, National University of Singapore). The GFP-Flot1 and CLC-GFP plant expression vector was constructed as follows: Flot1 and CLC were PCR amplified and subcloned into the modified pCAMBIA2300 and pCAMBIA1301 vectors, respectively. Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia wild-type or Ler, the dry2/sqe1-5 mutant, rbohD mutant, and Flot1 amiRNA line were transformed with constructs for GFP-RbohD or mCherry-RbohD, using the Agrobacterium tumefaciens–mediated floral dip method (CITATION). CLC-GFP and GFP-Flot1 plants were transformed with the constructs for mCherry-RbohD. For chc2-1 mutant seedlings expressing GFP-RbohD, F2 lines derived from crosses between GFP-RbohD and chc2-1 were identified. Transgenic plants were selected on solid medium (1.5% agar), half-strength MS medium containing 50 μg/mL hygromycin for CLC-GFP and GFP-Flot1, and 70 μg/mL kanamycin for GFP-RbohD and mCherry-RbohD. FM4-64 (Molecular Probes) in water was applied at a 3 µM final concentration to Arabidopsis plants, which were then washed with medium to remove excess dye and observed immediately. TyrA23, TyrA51, BFA, calyculin A, ionomycin, K-252a, wortmannin, and CHX were used from DMSO-dissolved stock solutions. mβCD was prepared in deionized water. For drug treatment, vertically grown seedlings were incubated in half-strength MS medium containing 50 µM Tyr A23, 50 µM TyrA51, 50 µM CHX, 50 µM BFA, 10 mM mβCD, or 33 µM wortmannin before VA-TIRFM, confocal microscopy, or immunoblot analysis. ABA and flg22 were added to a final concentration of 10 µM. Incubation of Arabidopsis seedlings in the presence of various chemicals was performed in 24-well cell culture plates in liquid half-strength MS medium. The final DMSO concentration in all working solutions was 0.1% (v/v) or less. For VA-TIRFM analysis, inhibitor treatment was for 30 min, unless otherwise stated. For confocal imaging, 4-d-old vertically grown seedlings were transferred to half-strength MS in a 12-well culture plate. After the indicated times, seedlings were transferred to a glass slide with a small quantity of inhibitor solution and covered with a glass cover slip. For Arabidopsis, experiments were performed in triplicate with at least 60 seedlings evaluated for each experimental condition. Seedlings were viewed under a confocal microscope (Carl Zeiss) using a 488-nm Ar/Kr laser line exciting GFP and FM4-64. GFP and FM4-64 emission was captured with a 500- to 525-nm slit detector setting. For plants expressing GFP and mCherry, Zeiss LSM 5 LIVE was used for colocalization analysis. GFP and mCherry were excited with 488- and 561-nm lasers, respectively (multitrack mode). Fluorescence was detected using the spectral detector set band-pass 520 to 555 (GFP) and long-pass 575 (mCherry). Images acquired were processed using Adobe Photoshop, version 7. The 4-d-old Arabidopsis control seedlings or those treated with inhibitors in a 12-well culture plate were transferred to a glass slide, covered with a cover slip, and observed under an objective-type total internal reflection fluorescence microscope. The VA-TIRFM microscope consisted of an inverted microscope (IX-71; Olympus), equipped with a laser-based TIRFM illumination module (IX2-RFAEVA-2; Olympus) and an Olympus PlanApo ×100 1.45–numerical aperture oil objective. GFP-tagged molecules were excited by a 473-nm laser, and the laser intensity was set at 0.2 µW µm−2. Fluorescence signals were collected using the objective lens and passed through two filters, a BA 510IF long-pass filter (Chroma USA) and a HQ525/50 band-pass filter (Chroma), before being detected using a back-illuminated electron-multiplying charge-coupled device (EMCCD) camera (ANDOR iXon DV897D-CS-BV; Andor Technology). For colocalization analysis, GFP and mCherry (561 nm) were excited simultaneously. The emissions were collected through high-quality filters (band-pass 525/45 and 609/54). The gain of the EMCCD camera was set at 300 throughout the single-particle imaging experiment; this setting was in the linear dynamic range of the EMCCD camera. Movies of 100 to 200 frames were acquired for each sample at a frame rate of 4 Hz. Single-particle fluorescence imaging of GFP on cover slips was performed as a control experiment. rAcGFP1 protein (Clontech) was first immobilized on cover slips using a biotin-coupled GFP antibody (Clontech) according to the method reported previously (CITATION). Fluorescence spots of rAcGFP1 that were within the diffraction limit (3 × 3 pixels, 480 nm × 480 nm) and bleached in a single step were identified as a single GFP molecule. To analyze the bleaching steps of GFP-RbohD protein, transgenic seedlings were washed with PBS three times and fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde solution for 30 min. The regions of interest for bleaching analysis were chosen according to the method of CITATION. The background fluorescence was subtracted from the movie acquired from the fixed seedlings using the rolling ball method in ImageJ software (US National Institutes of Health). The time courses of the fluorescence intensity of the interest regions were extracted for bleaching analysis. The single-particle fluorescence intensity was determined as follows. The background fluorescence was first subtracted from the movie using the rolling ball method in ImageJ software and the first frame of each movie was used for fluorescent spot (region of interest) selection. After image processing, the brightest pixel in each fluorescence spot within the diffraction-limited size of 3 × 3 pixels was determined as the center position, and a square of 3 × 3 pixels was enclosed as the region of interest to calculate the fluorescence intensity with ImageJ. Any spot with a peak pixel very close to another spot (less than three pixels) was not used in the calculation. Analyses of the dynamic properties were according to the detection methods 2 described by CITATION. Time-lapses series of single GFP-RbohD images were taken up to 100 images. To obtain trajectories of each spots, the mean square displacement (MSD) was calculated according to the equation (CITATION):where x and y are the coordinates at any given time, and x0 and y0 are the initial coordinates. For each spot, the diffusion coefficient (D) was calculated by plotting MSD against time (t) and the slope of the first four time points in the MSD-t plot was used according to the equation below: The diffusion coefficients reported in the text correspond to the peak positions (noted as Ĝ) of single or multiple Gaussian fit(s) of the D-histograms. The distributions of GFP-RbohD diffusion coefficients were obtained under different treatments. Those exhibiting Ĝ < 4.2 × 10−3 μm2/s (derived by the Gaussian fitting to the data of the immobile particles in the fixed seedlings) were defined as immobile molecules. Quantification of the colocalization of RbohD and Flot1/CLC was according to the protein proximity index method, as described by CITATION. Total proteins were extracted from transgenic GFP-RbohD lines in the rbohD background cultured in normal medium or subjected to a 30-min treatment of wortmannin and salt stress, respectively. The seedlings were ground to a fine power in liquid nitrogen, mixed at a 1:1 (v/v) ratio with SDS-PAGE sample buffer, heated at 95°C for 15 min, and then centrifuged at 12,000g for 5 min. The supernatants were separated on 8% SDS/polyacrylamide gels and transferred to a polyvinylidene fluoride membrane (Immobilon-P; Millipore) by electroblotting. Immunoblot analysis was performed with monoclonal GFP antibody (Sigma-Aldrich). Horseradish peroxidase–conjugated anti-mouse secondary antibody (Sangon Biotech) was used to detect the primary antibody, and β-tubulin was used as the reference control. The density of GFP-RbohD was measured using a Leica TCS SP5 FCS microscope equipped with an in-house coupled correlator and 488-nm argon laser. After acquiring images of cells in transmitted light mode, FCS was performed in the point-scanning mode and the laser was focused on the cell plasma membrane. The principle is based on the diffusion of fluorophores into and out of the focal volume, which alters the local fluorophore concentration, leading to spontaneous fluorescence intensity fluctuation. The GFP-RbohD density of individual cell membranes was obtained by monitoring the numbers of GFP-labeled RbohD molecules. Two random locations were selected, and a 10-s autocorrelation measurement per point was performed. The density of GFP-RbohD in up to 30 cells was determined in each measurement. For dual-color cross-correlation measurements, seedlings that express both the mCherry-RbohD and CLC-GFP/GFP-Flot1 fusion proteins were used. Also, 488- and 561-nm wavelengths were used to excite the green and red fluorophores, respectively. For quantitative evaluation, the relative cross-correlation was calculated from ([Gc(0)/Gr(0)], where Gc denotes the cross-correlation function and Gr denotes the autocorrelation function of the green channel. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: RbohD (At5g47910), Flot1 (At5g25250), and CLC (At2g40060). The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure 1. Confocal Images and VA-TIRFM Analysis of GFP-RbohD in Arabidopsis Seedlings. Supplemental Figure 2. Statistical Analysis of the Fluorescence Intensities of Single GFP Molecules. Supplemental Figure 3. Dynamic Tracking and Statistical Analysis of GFP-LTi6a at the Plasma Membrane. Supplemental Figure 4. Effects of ABA and Flg22 on the Dynamic Behavior of GFP-RbohD Spots at the Plasma Membrane. Supplemental Figure 5. Effects of TyrA23, TyrA51, or MβCD on GFP-RbohD Focus Size and Fluorescence Intensity at the Plasma Membrane. Supplemental Figure 6. The Degradation Analysis of GFP-RbohD Protein by Immunoblots. Supplemental Figure 7. FCS and FCCS Measurements under Various Conditions. Supplemental Figure 8. Hypothetical Model Summarizing the Oligomerization States and Endocytic Pathways of Arabidopsis RbohD. Supplemental Movie 1. The Movie of Dynamics of GFP-RbohD Foci under Normal Condition (13 × 36 μm). Supplemental Movie 2. The Movie of Dynamics of GFP-RbohD Foci Treated with DPI (15 × 38 μm). Supplemental Movie 3. The Movie of Dynamics of GFP-RbohD Foci Treated with Ionomycin (15 × 34 μm). Supplemental Movie 4. The Movie of Dynamics of GFP-RbohD Foci Treated with Calyculin A (13 × 35 μm). Supplemental Movie 5. The Movie of Dynamics of GFP-RbohD Foci Treated with ABA (16 × 35 μm). Supplemental Movie 6. The Movie of Dynamics of GFP-RbohD Foci Treated with Flg22 (15 × 35 μm). Supplemental Movie 7. The Movie of Dynamics of GFP-RbohD Foci Treated with TyrA23 (15 × 37 μm). Supplemental Movie 8. The Movie of Dynamics of GFP-RbohD Foci Treated with MβCD (12 × 36 μm). Supplemental Movie 9. The Movie of Dynamics of GFP-RbohD Foci in the Presence of NaCl (15 × 40 μm). Supplemental Movie 10. The Movie of Dynamics of GFP-RbohD Foci Treated with TyrA23 in the Presence of NaCl (15 × 38 μm). Supplemental Movie 11. The Movie of Dynamics of GFP-RbohD Foci Treated with MβCD in the Presence of NaCl (16 × 40 μm). Supplemental Data Set 1. The Supplemental Movie Legends and the Three Images (First, Middle, and Last Frames) from the Movie.
