!~ABS~!  
!~RES~! A reverse genetics approach was used to evaluate the function of the two orthologs of PtdIns3P 5‐kinases with the highest levels of expression in pollen, FAB1B and FAB1D. The two proteins differ mostly in the presence of a FYVE domain in FAB1B and its absence in FAB1D. By screening the Salk Institute Genomic Analysis Laboratory collection for T‐DNA insertion mutants, we retrieved one T‐DNA insertion in the FAB1B gene (fab1b, SALK_066673) and one T‐DNA insertion in the FAB1D gene (fab1d, SALK_087621). DNA sequencing of the regions adjacent to the T‐DNA left border confirmed that, in FAB1B, the insertion was found to disrupt the coding sequence in the ninth exon, downstream of the initiation codon (Fig. 1a). Similarly, in FAB1D, the insertion was found to disrupt the coding sequence in the 10th exon.  [[FIGURE]] RT‐PCR analysis of homozygous mutant lines showed a null expression of FAB1B and FAB1D (Fig. 1b), confirming that the fab1b and fab1d homozygous mutant plants are knockout mutants. These plants, when fully grown, did not exhibit significant morphological phenotypes when compared with the wild‐type plants (Fig. 2a). Similarly, the pollen grains from fab1b and fab1d homozygous flowers were found to be indistinguishable from wild‐type pollen in shape and size. Aniline blue, 4′,6‐diamidino‐2‐phenylindole (DAPI) and neutral red staining showed no abnormalities in the cytoplasm or wall of the pollen grains and correctly differentiated normal‐sized vegetative and sperm cell nuclei (Supporting Information Fig. S1). In vivo, the fab1b and fab1d pollen grains were able to grow in the stigma and style. We hand‐pollinated wild‐type pistils with pollen from wild‐type or homozygous fab1b and fab1d plants, and stained them with aniline blue, 8 or 16 h after pollination. Eight hours after pollination, we observed that most pollen grains had germinated and that pollen tubes had crossed the stigma, style and reached the ovary (Fig. 3a–c). Sixteen hours after pollination, the pollen tubes had reached the base of the transmitting tract (not shown). Wild‐type pollen was also able to germinate in the female transmitting tracts of fab1b and fab1d homozygous flowers (Fig. 3d,e).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To obtain additional insights into fab1b and fab1d phenotypes, a comparison of silique length, seed count, incidence of seed gaps and incidence of deformed seeds was performed. Data showed statistically non‐significant differences between mutant and wild‐type plants (Fig. 3f,g). These results show that, under optimal growth conditions, single FAB1B and FAB1D mutations do not result in significant impairment of pollen fitness and competitiveness in vivo.  To test the hypothesis of complementary functionality in FAB1 genes, double mutants fab1b;fab1d were generated from reciprocal crosses of both single mutant lines (bbDD for fab1b and BBdd for fab1d). The resulting F1 plants (BbDd) were allowed to self‐pollinate, and the progeny was screened by PCR for the presence of double homozygous mutants (bbdd). Of 66 plants that were screened, three double mutants were detected. After Pearson's χ2 test, this result is not significantly different from the Mendelian segregation ratio (P < 0.05; eight degrees of freedom), and so no transmission defects are assumed. Similar to the single mutant lines, the double mutant plants developed to maturity, with no severe vegetative morphological defects (Fig. 4a,b). In order to obtain more double mutants, Bbdd and bbDd plants from F2 were allowed to set self seed. Thirty‐three plants were screened by PCR to determine their genotype, and four double mutants were recovered. After Pearson's χ2 test, this result is not significantly different from the Mendelian segregation ratio (P < 0.001; four degrees of freedom), and again no transmission effects are assumed. The pollen grains from double mutant plants did not differ from single mutant pollen in terms of shape and size, and were able to germinate and develop pollen tubes in vitro (Fig. 4c).  [[FIGURE]] The genetic data referred to above were obtained when plants were grown under optimized and fully controlled biotic and abiotic conditions. This is likely to mask minor disadvantages which, under normal (natural stress) conditions, could result in decreased mutant male gametophytic competitiveness. To test this hypothesis, we performed a series of morphological analyses on pollen tube growth in vitro, that is, in culture medium which is known to fall short of mimicking the in vivo conditions (Johnson & Lord, CITATION).  The germination percentage of pollen grains from fab1b and fab1d homozygous flowers was found to be statistically indistinguishable from wild‐type pollen (Figs 2b–d, 5), but pollen from fab1b;fab1d flowers revealed a lower and variable germination capacity, suggesting that the effect of the two genes is additive. Furthermore, under similar growth conditions, the germinated fab1b and fab1d pollen tubes revealed a higher, but statistically non‐significant, growth rate (Fig. 5), which prompted us to undertake a more detailed morphological analysis of individual phenotypes. As reported previously (Sousa et al., CITATION), in wild‐type pollen, the frequency of abnormal morphologies (e.g. branched‐like growth, partial loss of polarity) was found to be 11.8%, and again we found non‐significant differences in fab1b and fab1d pollen tubes when looking at this parameter. However, 6 h after germination, mutant cells exhibited a significantly higher frequency of transient perturbation in tip growth (Figs 2b–d, S2a,b), as evidenced by measurements of apical tip diameter (Fig. 5). Twelve or more hours after germination, fab1b and fab1d pollen tubes, when compared with the wild‐type, exhibited a higher frequency of abnormal morphologies, apical bursting and total growth arrest (cell death; Fig. S2c). Interestingly, 6 h after germination, fab1b;fab1d pollen tubes exhibited not only abnormal morphologies, but a high degree of plasmolysis, indicative of an osmoregulation problem (Figs 4c, arrows, S2d). These observations are consistent with a defect in membrane dynamics/recycling and support an important role of FAB1 proteins in pollen germination and tip growth, as suggested previously (Whitley et al., CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] To test whether fab1 pollen tubes show perturbations in membrane secretion and recycling, cells were loaded with the fluorescent probe FM4‐64, a dye useful for exploring the endo‐ and exocytosis mechanisms (Castanho Coelho & Malhó, CITATION; Sousa et al., CITATION; Ângelo Silva et al., CITATION). Confocal imaging of growing Arabidopsis wild‐type and mutant pollen tubes labeled with FM4‐64 for 10–15 min revealed a fluorescent pattern similar to previous reports (e.g. Sousa et al., CITATION), with a stronger signal in the plasma membrane and in the apical zone (Fig. 6). Mutant cells, however, exhibited a lower fluorescence intensity, suggesting a reduced rate of membrane recycling (Fig. 6b). The fluorescence decrease at the plasma membrane was identical in fab1b and fab1d mutant cells. Intracellularly, the reduction was higher in fab1b cells, suggesting that the two genotypes differ mostly from each other in the amount of internalized dye, which could reflect different subcellular localizations.  [[FIGURE]] To assess possible changes in vacuolar pH, we used the membrane‐permeable acridine orange, a neutral dye which, on protonation, exhibits a bathochromic shift in its fluorescence emission (Han & Burgess, CITATION). Thus, an increase in fluorescence emitted in the 615–660‐nm range (orange) vs light emitted at 530–540 nm (green) can be used as a relative measure of acidification (e.g. Bak et al., CITATION; Remy et al., CITATION). Control conditions involved exposure of pollen tubes to extracellular acidic pH (Fig. S3). Using this ratio procedure, we found that fab1b cells exhibited lower fluorescence shifting (i.e. lower acidification) than wild‐type cells (Fig. 7), suggesting an impaired capacity for vacuolar acidification. By analogy with FM4‐64 measurements, fab1b cells exhibited lower fluorescence shifting (Fig. 7b).  [[FIGURE]] In both cases, collection of data in fab1b;fab1d pollen revealed additive effects. However, the significance of these data is compromised by the fragility of fab1b;fab1d tubes germinating in vitro (growth arrest and/or no recovery after dye addition).  Osmotic changes have been related to PtdIns(3,5)P2 levels, changes in endocytosis and the production of ROS (Meijer et al., CITATION; Leshem et al., CITATION). Considering the plasmolysis observation made in fab1b;fab1d pollen tubes and the importance of ROS in tip growth (Potocký et al., CITATION), we used the dye H2DCFDA to test whether their production was also altered in fab1 mutants. The staining in Arabidopsis wild‐type pollen tubes was similar to that reported previously for tobacco (Potocký et al., CITATION) and Papaver (Wilkins et al., CITATION) with a higher signal in the regions near the apex and bright dot‐like structures (Fig. 8a). As control condition, cells were pre‐incubated with 1 mM H2O2 for 5 min. Such treatment resulted in increased and uniform fluorescence (data not shown), as observed for tobacco under similar circumstances (Potocký et al., CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] Similar to FM4‐64 measurements, fab1 pollen tubes exhibited lower fluorescence intensity with a greater reduction in fab1b cells (Fig. 8b). Collection of data in fab1b;fab1d pollen again revealed additive effects, but the fragility of the double mutant cells recommends a critical interpretation of the data.  The stable transformation of Arabidopsis with pollen GFP‐fusion constructs resulted in weak fluorescence emissions and difficulties in performing live imaging over long time periods (Sousa et al., CITATION). Furthermore, these cells grow slowly and are very sensitive to laser irradiation, preventing the appropriate collection of time‐course series to confidently establish the localization of FAB1 proteins. As an alternative, we transiently transformed Nicotiana tabacum (tobacco) pollen with pLat52:GFP and pLat52:FAB1‐GFP constructs; the cDNAs were cloned downstream of the Lat52 promoter (Twell et al., CITATION). This strategy has already been successful in previous works (e.g. Gu et al., CITATION). Tobacco pollen is easily transformed using biolistics, the tubes grow faster than those from Arabidopsis and they are larger and more tolerant to the laser irradiation required for imaging. In addition, images were collected with a ≤ 20% laser power and care was taken to ensure a medial section through the pollen tubes.  The subcellular localization of the FAB1B protein was investigated using a FAB1B‐GFP C‐terminal fusion construct containing the complete open reading frame of the FAB1B gene. Actively growing cells (growth rate of at least 3 μm min−1) were observed c. 8 h after transformation when the FAB1B‐GFP fluorescence levels are sufficiently strong for appropriate imaging with low‐intensity laser irradiation; before this period, the GFP signal was hardly visible, possibly as a result of the high molecular weight of FAB1B (201 kDa) and lower diffusion to the target location (Nenninger et al., CITATION). FAB1B‐GFP was found to exhibit mostly a reticulate distribution, more intense at the nuclear and subapical region (Figs 9a,b, S4), a distribution resembling endoplasmic reticulum (Cheung & Wu, CITATION). FAB1B‐GFP was also found to decorate the tonoplast in older regions of the tube (Fig. 9c). This distribution is distinct from that observed for γ‐tonoplast intrinsic protein (γ‐TIP) (Fig. S5) which revealed a punctuate pattern. γ‐TIP is known to localize at the tonoplast of lytic vacuoles (Zheng & Staehelin, CITATION), suggesting that FAB1B localizes at a different vacuolar pool (possibly in protein storage vacuoles). This is consistent with a reticulate FAB1B‐GFP signal and a protein role in membrane reorganization and endocytosis (Hirano et al., CITATION; Zheng & Staehelin, CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] FAB1D localization was similarly achieved using a pEntryEpLAT52mGFP4 C‐terminal fusion construct containing the open reading frame of the FAB1D gene. Observations made 8 h after transformation revealed a mostly cytosolic localization of FAB1D‐GFP protein (Fig. 9d–f), in accordance with the absence of a FYVE membrane‐associated domain. However, a stronger GFP signal could be observed at the generative and sperm cells, particularly before or at early germination stages (Fig. 9d,g). Such a pattern of localization is in agreement with expression data (Whitley et al., CITATION), and further supports the hypothesis of a complementary functionality in FAB1 genes. 
!~MM~! All experiments were performed with Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh ecotype Columbia‐0 (Col‐0). Seeds were surface sterilized for 1 min in 70% ethanol, followed by 10 min of incubation in 30% (v/v) bleach containing 0.5% Tween 20 with occasional mixing, and washed five times in sterile distilled water. Seeds were germinated and grown on × 0.5 Murashige and Skoog (MS) plates containing 1% agar. Seeds with mutant genotypes were germinated on the same medium supplemented with 8.58 × 10−5 M kanamycin. After 10–14 d, the plants were transferred to soil and grown at 22°C with a 16 h : 8 h light : dark photoperiod using ‘walk‐in’ growth chambers (Aralab, Rio de Mouro, Portugal).  Nicotiana tabacum (cv Petit Havana SR1) plants were grown in a glasshouse under standard conditions. Mature pollen was collected and germinated in culture as described by Kost et al. (CITATION).  Arabidopsis lines with T‐DNA insertions in FAB1B and FAB1D genes were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (fab1b, SALK_066673; fab1d, SALK_087621). A PCR‐based approach was used to identify homozygous lines. PCR genotyping was performed using the following oligonucleotides: a primer to the left border of the T‐DNA insert (LBa1 5′‐TGGTTCACGTAGTGGGCCATCG‐3′), a pair of FAB1B‐specific primers (FAB1B‐RP 5′‐CATTCTTGAGCTATATCGGATTCAC‐3′ and FAB1B‐LP 5′‐TAGGGTCAAAAATGGTATCATCAAC‐3′) and a pair of FAB1D‐specific primers (FAB1D‐RP 5′‐CTTTCACTTGCCTGAATCTGC‐3′ and FAB1D‐LP 5′‐TTGTCTTGCCAAAGTTCTTGG‐3′). To test whether fab1b and fab1d homozygous mutant plants generate FAB1B or FAB1D transcripts, respectively, reverse transcription‐polymerase chain reaction (RT‐PCR) was performed. Total RNA from flowers was extracted using an RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen, Limburg, the Netherlands) according to the manufacturer's instructions. The first cDNA chain was synthesized with M‐MuLV Reverse Transcriptase RNase H Minus (Thermo Scientific, Lisbon, Portugal) and an oligo d(T) primer. The second cDNA strand synthesis and amplification were performed with Ex Taq Polymerase (TaKaRa Bio, Inc., Shiga, Japan) with the gene primer sets: FAB1B forward 5′‐ATTCTTGAGCTATATCGGATTCAC‐3′ and FAB1B reverse 5′‐AGAGATTACTGTGGTGCTTCATTC‐3′, and FAB1D forward 5′‐TTGTCTTGCCAAAGTTCTTGG‐3′ and FAB1D reverse 5′‐CTTTCACTTGCCTGAATCTGC‐3. As a positive control for RT‐PCR, ACTIN8 transcript levels were also analyzed with the primer set: Act8Fw 5′‐ACCTTGCTGGTCGTGACCTTACTG‐3′ and Act8Rev 5′‐GATCCCGTCATGGAAACGATGTCTC‐3′. The PCR products were separated on 1% agarose gels and visualized with ethidium bromide.  To assay in vivo pollen germination, mature wild‐type flowers were emasculated and pollinated with wild‐type pollen, fab1b or fab1d pollen. Other assays were prepared in which wild‐type pollen was applied to fab1b and fab1d stigmas. The pollinated pistils were collected 8 and 16 h after pollination and stained as in the aniline blue protocol described previously (Sumie et al., CITATION). The stained pistils were observed with an Olympus BX‐51 epifluorescence microscope (Labocontrole, Lisbon, Portugal) and photographed with a 5‐megapixel Olympus Camedia digital camera (Olympus Iberia, Lisbon, Portugal).  To assay in vitro pollen germination, wild‐type, fab1b and fab1d pollen grains were collected and cultured as described previously (Li et al., CITATION). The pollen grains were grown in germination medium at room temperature with 100% relative humidity. From each culture, at least 100 pollen grains were examined to calculate the average germination rate, pollen tube length and tip diameter. Bright‐field and/or differential interference contrast images were acquired with a PCO Sensicam‐QE camera (Labocontrole) attached to an Olympus IX‐50 microscope using an Olympus X40 UplanApo (numerical aperture (NA) = 0.85) objective. Numerical data extraction was performed using Image‐Pro Plus 5.0 software (Media Cybernetics, Leiden, the Netherlands).  Silique evaluation was performed by harvesting green expanded siliques from selfed fab1b and fab1d homozygous mutant and wild‐type adult plants. Siliques were cleared in 70% ethanol for 24 h and then examined under a dissecting microscope.  Double mutant plants (fab1b;fab1d) were obtained by crossing fab1b and fab1d single mutant lines to generate F1 seeds. The F1 plants were allowed to self‐cross to generate the F2 progeny which included double mutant plants. To genotype F2 progeny, leaf samples were collected from each plant for genomic DNA isolation with the DNeasy plant kit (Qiagen). PCRs were set with the primers designed by the T‐DNA Primer Design Tool (http://signal.salk.edu/tdnaprimers.2.html). For Fab1B amplification, the primer set was LP 5′‐TAGGGTCAAAAATGGTATCATCAAC‐3′, RP 5′‐ CATTCTTGAGCTATATCGGATTCAC‐3′ and LBa1 5′‐TGGTTCACGTAGTGGGCCATCG‐3′. For Fab1D amplification, the primer set was LP 5′‐TTGTCTTGCCAAAGTTCTTGG‐3′, RP 5′‐CTTTCACTTGCCTGAATCTGC‐3′ and LBa1.  For the analysis of endocytic events, pollen tubes were labeled with FM4‐64 as described previously (Castanho Coelho & Malhó, CITATION). Briefly, pollen tubes were labeled with 2 μM of FM solution (Life Technologies, Carlsbad, CA, USA) prepared in germination medium, and observed 10–15 min after labeling with a Leica SP‐E confocal microscope (Leica Microsistemas, Lisbon, Portugal). Thin time‐course optical sections (c. 3 μm thick) were acquired using a × 20 Plan Apo dry objective (NA = 0.75) or a × 40 Plan Apo dry objective (NA = 0.85), < 20% laser intensity (532‐nm laser line) and operating in the mode 1024 × 1024, 400 Hz (c. 1/3 s per frame).  For the analysis of relative vacuolar pH, cells were labeled with 200 μM acridine orange (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA) and imaged by confocal microscopy using the 488‐nm laser line for excitation and emission collected at 530–540 and 615–660 nm (Bak et al., CITATION). Ratio images were processed and analyzed using Image‐Pro Plus 5.0 software.  Production of ROS was assayed in cells incubated with 10 μM H2DCFDA (Sigma) for 10–15 min. The dye was excited using the confocal microscope 488‐nm laser line and emission was collected at 530–540 nm with imaging settings similar to those described above for FM4‐64.  Numerical data analysis in the figures was performed using Image‐Pro Plus 5.0 software, and corresponds to average pixel intensity measurements performed in that region of the cell. Student's t‐test (two‐tailed distribution, P = 0.05) was used for statistical analysis.  The FAB1B coding cDNA fragment without the stop codon was amplified from Col‐0 genomic DNA with forward (5′‐CCCCCCGGGCCCATGGGTACAAGAGATAGTAAT‐3′) and reverse (5′‐CCCCCCGCGGCCGCGCTCTGCTTGTGTACCGGC‐3′) primers carrying ApaI and NotI restriction sites (italic), respectively. For FAB1D, the primers were 5′‐ACGCGTCGACATGACTCCTTCTAATTCTTTATCTAGCAGTGAACGCTCTCTC‐3′ (SalI site in italic.) and 5′‐CTAGCTAGCCGAGTCTCCTTGGTCGCACCACTGG‐3′ (NheI site in italic), respectively.  The FAB1B coding sequence was cloned into pGreen pLat52‐GFP vector (Hellens et al., CITATION) and FAB1D was cloned into pEntryEpLAT52:mGFP4, in frame with the 5′ end of the green fluorescent protein (GFP) coding sequence, resulting in FAB1‐GFP fusion coding sequences driven by the pLat52 promoter (Twell et al., CITATION).  A helium‐driven PDS‐1000/He particle delivery system (Bio‐Rad) was used for the biolistic transformation of tobacco pollen, as described by Kost et al. (CITATION). Two micrograms of plasmid DNA were bombarded per sample. The plasmid pGreenpLat52mGFP4 was used as control for FAB1B localization; pEntryEpLAT52mGFP4 was used as control for FAB1D localization. Pollen grains were allowed to germinate on medium and then transferred onto coverslips for microscopic analysis. Cells expressing the construct were tracked by confocal microscopy with imaging settings similar to those described above for H2DCFDA.  Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: FAB1B (At3g14270) and FAB1D (At1g34260). 
