!~ABS~! The proteomic composition of the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) Golgi apparatus is currently reasonably well documented; however, little is known about the relative abundances between different proteins within this compartment. Accurate quantitative information of Golgi resident proteins is of great importance: it facilitates a better understanding of the biochemical processes that take place within this organelle, especially those of different polysaccharide synthesis pathways. Golgi resident proteins are challenging to quantify because the abundance of this organelle is relatively low within the cell. In this study, an organelle fractionation approach targeting the Golgi apparatus was combined with a label-free quantitative mass spectrometry (data-independent acquisition method using ion mobility separation known as LC-IMS-MSE [or HDMSE]) to simultaneously localize proteins to the Golgi apparatus and assess their relative quantity. In total, 102 Golgi-localized proteins were quantified. These data show that organelle fractionation in conjunction with label-free quantitative mass spectrometry is a powerful and relatively simple tool to access protein organelle localization and their relative abundances. The findings presented open a unique view on the organization of the plant Golgi apparatus, leading toward unique hypotheses centered on the biochemical processes of this organelle.
!~RES~! The strategy for quantification of Golgi apparatus proteins is described in Figure 1. Density gradient centrifugation allowed partial separation of the Golgi apparatus from other abundant organelles. The organelle fractions were subjected to data-independent acquisition LC-IMS-MSE. Individual protein abundance distributions across the gradient were used to determine the Golgi apparatus sedimentation profile. The fraction most enriched for the Golgi apparatus was then used for the analysis of protein abundances by the Top-3 method (Supplemental Table S1). [[FIGURE]] Quantitative determination of gradient fractionation profiles of organelle proteins can be used to assign subcellular localization (CITATION). If the measurement of protein abundance in each fraction is linear and quantitative, proteins in different organelles can be distinguished based on their different sedimentation profiles. To assess whether LC-IMS-MSE quantification could be used for localization of Golgi apparatus proteins, label-free quantitative proteomic analysis was performed of organelle fractionations targeted at Golgi enrichment in two biological replicates of Arabidopsis callus. The replication allowed estimation of the quality of the analysis. Stringent filtering criteria were applied for protein localization analysis: a protein needed to be quantified in eight of 10 analyzed fractions in both gradients with at least two fully tryptic, unmodified proteotypic peptides. Using these criteria, sedimentation profiles for 1,385 proteins were constructed (Supplemental Table S2). To investigate the sedimentation profiles of Golgi-localized proteins in the gradients, a protein marker set was generated composed of proteins for which subcellular localization has been shown by prior cell biological (nonproteomic) studies and high homology to well-characterized proteins (Supplemental Table S3). The marker proteins were divided into two groups: Golgi (26 for Golgi proteins) and non-Golgi (226 proteins localized elsewhere). A principal component analysis plot of sedimentation profiles of both experiments combined, shown in Supplemental Figure S1A, indicates that these two groups of proteins can be distinguished based on their fractionation profiles. The sedimentation profiles for 26 Golgi marker proteins in both replicate experiments are shown in Figure 2B. These distributions are consistent with the distribution of the Galactosyltransferase-Like6 (Gtl6)/At2g22900 Golgi marker protein as measured by western blotting (Fig. 2A). [[FIGURE]] The marker protein distribution profiles were used to classify unlabeled proteins to either Golgi or non-Golgi classes using a support vector machine (SVM) classifier as implemented in the pRoloc software (CITATION; CITATION). The optimal SVM parameters (σ = 0.01, cost = 0.0625), obtained as described above, yield a macro-F1 score of 0.94 for the marker protein set. Of 1,133 unlabeled proteins that were subjected to the SVM classifier, only proteins with an SVM score greater than or equal to 0.75 were considered reliably classified. At this threshold, 35 proteins were classified as Golgi residents (Supplemental Fig. S1B and Supplemental Table S4). The sedimentation profiles for the SVM-classified Golgi proteins in both replicate experiments are consistent with the sedimentation profiles of Golgi marker proteins (Fig. 2C). Of these 35 proteins classified as Golgi by LC-IMS-MSE, 28 proteins have been localized by LOPIT experiments reported previously (CITATION). Almost all of these proteins (25 of 28) were localized by LOPIT to the Golgi apparatus, showing high consistency between the two methods. Of three inconsistent assignments, one protein assigned in LOPIT to the endoplasmic reticulum (vacuolar sorting receptor1 [VSR1] /At3g52850) seems to be primarily localized to post-Golgi compartments based on recent literature, and two proteins are plastidic and thus, may be contaminants in this LC-IMS-MSE Golgi-assigned list (CITATION); five proteins from this list of 35 SVM-assigned proteins are unique Golgi-assigned proteins not previously reported by a high-confidence assignment method (Supplemental Table S4). The Top-3 method of quantification is a method of converting peptide intensity to protein amount. This quantification method is based on a premise that the sum intensity of the three most intense peptides from any protein has a linear correlation to the given protein concentration, regardless of the protein sequence or size (CITATION). The method was initially applied on qTOF instruments and is a standard form of analysis of MSE acquisitions. This quantification method was later implemented on other platforms (CITATION). The method has since been applied to assess protein abundances in a variety of systems, including Escherichia coli (CITATION), budding yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae; CITATION), human cell lines (CITATION), and plants (CITATION; CITATION). To assess its accuracy in our experiments, we analyzed the commercial protein standards Universal Protein Standard1 (UPS1; 48 proteins at equimolar abundances) and UPS2 (48 proteins at six different concentrations). Supplemental Figure S2 shows protein quantification for the two standards. In general, the equimolar proteins in UPS1 tend to produce similar Top-3 values approximately within a factor of 3, and the method enables the inference of the correct abundance group to which the protein belongs in the UPS2 standard (Supplemental Fig. S2). Given that accuracy and precision of quantification in proteomics experiments using the Top-3 method are known to correlate positively with protein abundance, for Golgi protein quantification, LC-IMS-MSE data were used from the most Golgi-enriched fraction. The data on organelle sedimentation presented above identified fraction number five as most enriched in Golgi proteins (Fig. 2). From this fraction, using the Top-3 method, the relative molar quantities of 102 Golgi proteins were determined of 1,266 quantified proteins from the most Golgi-enriched fraction (Fig. 3; Supplemental Table S5). These 102 Golgi proteins consisted of 37 proteins from the known Golgi proteins marker set, 33 additional proteins localized to the Golgi by SVM in this study, and 32 proteins localized to the Golgi in previous LOPIT experiments (CITATION). The Top-3 LC-IMS-MSE quantification analysis was carried out independently on two biological replicates of membranes and showed good reproducibility: the R2 was 0.93, and the median coefficient of variance of quantification was 13% (Fig. 4). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The 102 Golgi proteins constitute approximately 7.7% mol of 1,266 quantified proteins in the most Golgi-enriched gradient fraction (Supplemental Table S6). The Golgi marker protein overexpressed in the cell cultures, Gtl6/At2g22900, was the most abundant protein at 5.7% mol of the quantified Golgi proteome. Notably, when the unfractionated whole-callus cell lysate was analyzed by LC-IMS-MSE, only four Golgi proteins (of 960 quantified proteins; Supplemental Table S7) were identified and quantified, and one of which was the Gtl6 marker protein. This shows that the Golgi is a very low-abundance organelle and also indicates that the organelle fractionation strategy provides significant enrichment of the Golgi apparatus.
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) Columbia-0 ecotype liquid-grown callus line was used for the preparation of the Golgi-enriched membranes and quantitative proteomic analysis. The transgenic line 35S::GTL6-myc was used, expressing a Golgi apparatus marker protein (Gtl6/At2g29900) fused with a c-Myc tag. The conditions of growth were as described in CITATION. Organelle separation was achieved by iodixanol density ultracentrifugation of the homogenized Arabidopsis liquid-grown callus line as described previously (CITATION). In brief, the plant callus material was harvested 4 d after the culture medium was refreshed, and all subsequent steps were performed at 4°C. Approximately 60 g of callus tissue was homogenized in an equal volume of homogenization buffer (250 mm Suc, 25 mm HEPES, pH 7.5, 1 mm EDTA, 1 mm dithiothreitol, and Complete Protease Inhibitor Cocktail Tablets; Roche). The homogenate was centrifuged for 30 min at 2,200g two times to remove unbroken cells, cell wall components, and nuclei. The supernatant was centrifuged for 2 h at 4°C in an SW28 rotor at 100,000g onto a 6-mL cushion containing 18% (v/v) iodixanol in homogenization buffer. Concentrated membranes from the interface were collected with a syringe, adjusted to 12% (v/v) iodixanol, and spun for 4 h at 4°C in a VTi65.1 rotor in OptiSeal 11.2-mL tubes at 350,000g to separate organelles on a self-forming iodixanol density gradient; 0.5-mL fractions were collected from the upper part of the gradient, with fractions 1 to 10 enriched for the Golgi apparatus that was used in this study. Two independent biological replicates (named replicates A and B) were performed from separate callus cultures. The protein samples were precipitated in 10% (w/v) TCA, and the pellets were solubilized in 50 mm ammonium bicarbonate and 1% (w/v) RapiGest SF (Waters). After protein extraction from the density gradient fractions, protein quantities of each fraction were determined by the BCA assay (Thermo Scientific), and the sample volumes used in subsequent analysis were adjusted accordingly. Immunoblot analyses were used to study the sedimentation profile of the Golgi apparatus along the density gradient by tracking the abundance of the Gtl6-myc protein with a rabbit polyclonal anti-c-Myc antibody A-14 (Santa Cruz Biotech). For each sample, the proteins were reduced with 5 mm dithiothreitol for 1 h at 37°C, alkylated with 15 mm iodoacetamide for 1 h at room temperature, and digested with trypsin (porcine sequencing grade modified trypsin; Promega) by applying a 1:20 (w/w) trypsin:protein ratio and incubating at 37°C overnight. Concentrated HCl was added to the digestion solution until pH 2 was reached to hydrolyze the acid-labile detergent RapiGest SF. The solutions were centrifuged (20,000g for 15 min) to pellet-insoluble material before loading of the samples on the LC. The UPS1 and UPS2 protein standards (Waters), consisting of 48 human proteins in equimolar (for UPS1) and a dynamic range of six concentrations ranging from 500 attomol to 50 pmol (for UPS2), were used to assess the accuracy of the Top-3 quantification. The protein sample was diluted in 0.1% (w/v) RapiGest SF and digested with trypsin as described above. Approximately 250 ng of peptides from 10 fractions of the upper part of the density gradient (Golgi-enriched part of the gradient) from both biological replicates was separated by the NanoACQUITY UPLC System (Waters). Loading was kept low to avoid detector the saturation issues described previously. The LC aqueous mobile phase contained 0.1% (v/v) formic acid in water, and the organic mobile phase contained 0.1% (v/v) formic acid in 100% (v/v) acetonitrile. The samples were injected on a fused silica (Symmetry C18 5 μm, 180 μm × 20 mm) trapping column (Waters) and trapped for 5 min at a 5 μL min−1 flow rate of aqueous mobile phase. The separation was performed on a T3 1.8 μm, 75-μm × 250-mm column (Waters) at 300 nL min−1 flow rates using a 90-min linear gradient elution (from 3%–35% [v/v] organic mobile phase). The column was washed with 80% (v/v) organic mobile phase for 5 min and reequilibrated with 3% (v/v) organic mobile phase for 15 min. The column temperature was maintained at 40°C. Peptides fractionated on the nanoACQUITY were then analyzed in line with a SYNAPT G2 Hybrid IMS-MS System (Waters). The data reported were acquired in IMS-MSE mode with low-energy and high-energy scans of 900-ms duration each. During high-energy scans, the collision energy was linearly ramped in the Transfer region of TriWave from 21 to 44 V. Emitters were manufactured by etching a fused silica line with hydrofluoric acid as described by CITATION. To allow postacquisition lock mass correction, [Glu-1]-fibrinopeptide B (500 fmol μL−1) was infused through the lockspray ion source at a flow rate of 500 nL min−1 as an external reference compound (lock mass compound) through an auxiliary pump and acquired one time every 30 s for a 1-s period. The mass correction was applied to the spectra postacquisition. The full list of instrument settings is available in Supplemental Table S1. The raw data were processed with the PLGS 2.5.2 Apex3D and Pep3D algorithms (64 bit; Waters) to generate precursor mass lists and associated product ion mass lists for subsequent protein identification and quantification. The thresholds for low-energy ions, high-energy ions, and low-energy exact mass retention time pairs were set to 100, 15, and 750 counts, respectively. The [Glu-1]-fibrinopeptide was specified as a lock mass compound with 785.8426 m/z for z = 2 and a 0.25-D tolerance window. A detailed description of the PLGS pipeline is in CITATION. For Golgi proteins ranking, the database search was performed with the settings suggested by the manufacturer against the latest version of the nonredundant Arabidopsis genome annotation database (The Arabidopsis Information Resource 10; obtained from www.arabidopsis.org) containing 27,241 protein sequence entries, in which entries with entirely identical sequences were merged into single FASTA entries by an in-house R script. For Golgi-localized protein quantification, the most abundant Golgi fraction of both biological replicates gradients (fraction number 5) was searched with 4% false discovery rate (as suggested by the manufacturer), carbamidomethyl Cys as the fixed modification, and oxidation of Met as the variable modification. The database search was performed with the following settings: a peptide could be identified by a minimum of one fragment ion, and the protein identification required at least three fragment ions and at least one peptide per protein for identification. Only proteins with Green autocurate thresholds were used in the subsequent analysis. The MS proteomics data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org) through the PRIDE partner repository (CITATION) with the dataset identifier PXD001056. To obtain protein distributions across the gradient, the LOPIMS pipeline implemented in pRoloc (CITATION) and based on functionality from synapter (CITATION) and MSnbase (CITATION) was developed (a detailed description is in the documentation of lopims function in the pRoloc package; CITATION; CITATION). In brief, raw data analysis was performed in PLGS to get a list of exact mass retention times (unidentified peptide features) and identified peptides from both Arabidopsis forward and scrambled databases (The Arabidopsis Information Resource 10). Identified peptides from fractions 1, 3, and 5 from the first biological replicate gradient and fractions 4 and 9 from second biological replicate gradient were used to construct a list of m/z and retention times for 12,931 fully tryptic unmodified proteotypic peptides. These peptide identifications were then transferred to all the acquisitions based on similarity of m/z and retention time. This resulted in 8,156 and 8,805 peptides being quantified in the first and second gradient replicates, respectively. These peptides were present in at least 5 of 10 gradient fractions in both gradients. The peptide data were converted to protein intensities as follows. For each protein, a fraction with the highest number of peptides quantified was nominated as a reference fraction. The protein abundance in that reference fraction was taken as one. Then, other fractions were quantified against the reference fraction by finding the ratio of the combined intensity for peptides shared between the interrogated and reference fractions. When the quantities in all fractions for a given protein were computed, the values were renormalized to give a sum = 1 across all 10 fractions. An SVM classifier as implemented in the pRoloc R package was used to infer protein localization (CITATION). Briefly, the labeled data were separated into stratified test (20%) and training (80%) partitions. The latter was submitted to another round of stratified 5-fold cross validation to optimize the SVM parameters (regularization parameter C and kernel radial basis function width σ). Model accuracy is evaluated using the macro-F1 score, F1 = 2 × (precision × recall)/(precision + recall), which was calculated as the harmonic mean of the precision, precision = true positives [tp]/(tp + false positives [fp]), a measure of exactness (i.e. returned output is a relevant result), and recall, recall = tp/(tp + false negatives [fn]), a measure of completeness (i.e. indicating how much was missed from the output). The best pair of parameters (i.e. the one yielding the highest macro-F1 score) was subsequently used in training a classifier on all training profiles before assessment on all test/validation profiles. This procedure was repeated 100 times to estimate generalization performance values and identify suitable model parameters, which were then applied to train a model on all marker profiles and classify unlabeled data. The following materials are available in the online version of this article. Supplemental Figure S1. Golgi protein localization by SVM. Supplemental Figure S2. UPS1 and UPS2 standards. Supplemental Table S1. Synapt G2 instrument settings. Supplemental Table S2. Protein profiles. Supplemental Table S3. Protein marker list. Supplemental Table S4. Golgi protein localization by SVM. Supplemental Table S5. Rank ordering of Golgi proteins. Supplemental Table S6. Composition of the peak Golgi fraction. Supplemental Table S7. Composition of the whole plant lysate. As this paper was in the proof stage, a publication by Rennie et al. (2014) about PGSIP6 identified this protein as an Inositol Phosphhorylceramide Glucuronosyltransferase1 (Rennie EA, Ebert B, Miles GP, Cahoon RE, Christiansen KM, Stonebloom S, Khatab H, Twell D, Petzold CJ, Adams PD, et al [2014] Identification of a sphingolipid α-glucuronosyltransferase that is essential for pollen function in Arabidopsis. Plant Cell.
