!~ABS~! Salt and drought stress severely reduce plant growth and crop productivity worldwide. The identification of genes underlying stress response and tolerance is the subject of intense research in plant biology. Through microarray analyses, we previously identified in potato (Solanum tuberosum) StRGGA, coding for an Arginine Glycine Glycine (RGG) box-containing RNA-binding protein, whose expression was specifically induced in potato cell cultures gradually exposed to osmotic stress. Here, we show that the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) ortholog, AtRGGA, is a functional RNA-binding protein required for a proper response to osmotic stress. AtRGGA gene expression was up-regulated in seedlings after long-term exposure to abscisic acid (ABA) and polyethylene glycol, while treatments with NaCl resulted in AtRGGA down-regulation. AtRGGA promoter analysis showed activity in several tissues, including stomata, the organs controlling transpiration. Fusion of AtRGGA with yellow fluorescent protein indicated that AtRGGA is localized in the cytoplasm and the cytoplasmic perinuclear region. In addition, the rgga knockout mutant was hypersensitive to ABA in root growth and survival tests and to salt stress during germination and at the vegetative stage. AtRGGA-overexpressing plants showed higher tolerance to ABA and salt stress on plates and in soil, accumulating lower levels of proline when exposed to drought stress. Finally, a global analysis of gene expression revealed extensive alterations in the transcriptome under salt stress, including several genes such as ASCORBATE PEROXIDASE2, GLUTATHIONE S-TRANSFERASE TAU9, and several SMALL AUXIN UPREGULATED RNA-like genes showing opposite expression behavior in transgenic and knockout plants. Taken together, our results reveal an important role of AtRGGA in the mechanisms of plant response and adaptation to stress.
!~RES~! In a previous study, we isolated StRGGA (GenBank accession no. FM209282), whose gene expression is specifically induced in culture cells of potato gradually adapted to high concentrations of PEG. Exposure of potato cells to abrupt osmotic stress did not elicit a change in StRGGA transcript abundance (CITATION; Fig. 1A; Supplemental Table S1). The deduced protein sequence of StRGGA shares 63% sequence homology with the protein encoded by the locus At4g16830 of Arabidopsis (Supplemental Fig. S1), which, therefore, is hypothesized to be the Arabidopsis ortholog (AtRGGA). To investigate whether AtRGGA was also induced by stress treatments in Arabidopsis, we analyzed gene expression in cells and seedlings exposed to NaCl and osmotic (PEG) stress. ABA treatments were also included to assess a possible involvement of the hormone in the regulation of AtRGGA transcript abundance. In MM2D cells (CITATION), NaCl, ABA, and PEG treatments induced a significant up-regulation of AtRGGA compared with control untreated cells (Fig. 1B). Induction seemed to be highest after NaCl treatment, which, however, also caused a reduction in cell viability (Supplemental Fig. S2). In seedlings, 24-h treatments with different concentrations of NaCl caused a slight down-regulation of AtRGGA expression (Fig. 1C), while there was an up-regulation in seedlings exposed for 2 d to ABA and PEG (Fig. 1D), indicating that AtRGGA transcript abundance is reduced by salt stress in the short term but increased over longer periods of exposure to ABA and osmotic stress. [[FIGURE]] Protein sequence analysis of AtRGGA showed the presence of a Suppressor of Tom1 (Stm1) domain, found at the N-terminal region of the yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) Stm1 nucleic acid-binding protein, and a Hyaluronan-Binding Protein4_Plasminogen Activator Inhibitor-1 mRNA-Binding Protein1 (HABP4_PAI-RBP1) domain, found in RBPs, suggesting that AtRGGA could be an RBP (Fig. 2A). To verify this hypothesis, an RNA electromobility shift assay (EMSA) was performed using recombinant, His-tagged AtRGGA (His-RGGA) and total RNA extracted from control as well as salt-stressed whole seedlings. RNA was labeled with biotin and incubated with or without His-RGGA prior to electrophoresis in native conditions. A recombinant version of the PYR1 ABA receptor, His-PYR1, was used as a negative control. As shown in Figure 2B, an RNA mobility shift was specifically observed when RNA was incubated with AtRGGA, indicating that AtRGGA was capable of binding RNA, and the binding was competed by adding an excess of unlabeled RNA, thus showing that AtRGGA is a bona fide RBP. To assess the specificity of AtRGGA binding to RNA, poly(A+) and poly(A−) RNA fractions were used for RNA EMSA. A band shift after incubation with His-RGGA was observed when poly(A−) RNA was used, indicating that RGGA binds to one or more RNAs contained in the poly(A−) RNA fraction. [[FIGURE]] To gain insights into the function of AtRGGA in plants, we proceeded to analyze its expression pattern and subcellular localization. Transgenic plants expressing the GUS reporter gene driven by the putative promoter (defined as 2 kb upstream of the protein-coding sequence) of AtRGGA were stained using 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl glucuronide to visualize the spatial and temporal patterns of activity of the AtRGGA promoter. As shown in Figure 3, GUS activity was visualized both in seedlings and in adult plants in several organs, including leaves, roots, inflorescences, and siliques. Interestingly, within leaves, a strong staining of stomata was observed (Fig. 3D), indicating the expression of AtRGGA in guard cells. In reproductive organs, GUS activity was visualized in pollen grains (Fig. 3, G and H) and tubes of germinating pollen (Fig. 3H) as well as in funiculi attaching seeds to siliques (Fig. 3, M and N). Results gathered by GUS staining assays were generally consistent with publicly available expression data showing the presence of AtRGGA transcript in all analyzed tissues (Supplemental Fig. S3). [[FIGURE]] To analyze AtRGGA protein subcellular localization, we generated transgenic plants overexpressing a yellow fluorescent protein (YFP)-RGGA fusion protein. Young seedlings of YFP-RGGA were observed by confocal laser scanning microscopy following a short incubation in propidium iodide to counterstain cell walls. As shown in Figure 4A, in cells of the root apex, where vacuoles are less developed, a clear YFP signal was observed in the cytoplasm. Upon prolonged incubation in propidium iodide solution, minor staining of nuclear DNA could be achieved. In this case, we observed exclusion of YFP-RGGA from the nuclei in cells of the root elongation zone, while strong YFP fluorescence was visualized in the perinuclear region of the cytoplasm (Fig. 4B). In leaf tissues, YFP signal was especially strong in stomata (Fig. 4C). Similar results were obtained using transgenic plants expressing a C-terminal fusion of AtRGGA with YFP (Fig. 4D). Together, the protein subcellular localization studies indicate that AtRGGA localizes in the cytoplasm and the perinuclear region. [[FIGURE]] To characterize the role of AtRGGA in plant responses to salt and drought stress, a transfer DNA (T-DNA) insertion mutant in which AtRGGA gene expression is abolished (SALK_143514; rgga; Fig. 5A; Supplemental Fig. S4) was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center, and transgenic plants overexpressing a FLAG-RGGA fusion protein (Fig. 5B; Supplemental Fig. S4) were generated. In control conditions, rgga plants appeared to have larger rosettes compared with wild-type Columbia-0 (Col-0) plants and showed delayed flowering in a long-day (16 h of light/8 h of darkness) regime (Supplemental Fig. S4). [[FIGURE]] Phenotype analyses in the presence of stress were conducted at different developmental stages. At the germination stage, rgga displayed a higher sensitivity to NaCl compared with wild-type Col-0. In particular, while an average of 83% of Col-0 seeds presented fully expanded cotyledons after 7 d of exposure to NaCl (120 mm), only 64% of rgga seeds were germinated (Fig. 5C). In contrast, seeds of overexpressing plants (35S::FLAG-RGGA) did not show any significant differences in their ability to germinate in salt stress medium compared with the wild type or controls transformed with the empty vector (Fig. 5C). Survival tests instead showed differences in the ability to withstand salt stress conditions of both mutant and overexpressing plants compared with controls. After 7 d of exposure to high-salt conditions, both the knockout mutant and overexpressing plants showed significantly different survival percentages from the wild type. More than 60% of seedlings of three different overexpressing lines did not display any signs of necrosis or bleaching, compared with 36% of Col-0 seedlings, while rgga seedlings were more sensitive to salt stress, with only 7% of plants surviving long-term exposure to NaCl (180 mm; Fig. 5D). Differences in sensitivity to salt stress also could be observed visually (Fig. 6A). [[FIGURE]] Closure of stomata when exposed to a dry environment is an important ABA-dependent mechanism contributing to plant stress tolerance, whose efficiency can be inferred by measuring the decline in fresh weight of detached leaves in a time course (CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, water-loss measurements during the course of 3 h were performed on both rgga mutant and 35S::FLAG-RGGA plants. As shown in Figure 6B, wild-type Col-0 and rgga had lost a similar amount of water (62% and 61% of fresh weight, respectively), while leaves detached from overexpressing plants retained a higher amount of water, having lost 51% of their initial fresh weight, thus suggesting that an increased expression of AtRGGA results in a more efficient closure of stomata in drought stress conditions. To further assess the role of RGGA in ABA-dependent mechanisms of response to environmental stresses, root growth and survival tests in the presence of ABA were performed. Root growth experiments on plates showed a hypersensitivity of rgga to the presence of ABA in the medium, while overexpressing plants did not display significant differences as compared with Col-0 (Fig. 6, C and D). In terms of survival of ABA exposure, 10 d of treatment could highlight significant differences between genotypes. 35S::FLAG-RGGA plants showed a higher ability to tolerate the presence of 50 µm ABA in the medium, with 60% of plants still surviving after 10 d of exposure to the hormone, while the mutant only had about 20% of individuals still surviving and the wild type had about 47%. Opposite phenotypes of mutant and transgenic plants in terms of survival of stress conditions were also observed in soil-grown plants. When drought or salt stress was imposed, the rgga mutant appeared more sensitive than the wild type, with a more obvious bleaching of leaves. In contrast, overexpressing plants showed less wilting and bleaching symptoms in the presence of salt and drought stress compared with Col-0 (Fig. 7A). Pro content after prolonged exposure to salt and drought stress was measured in the wild type, rgga, and 35S::FLAG-RGGA. As shown in Figure 7B, levels of Pro in control conditions were similar, with less than 0.2 mmol g−1 fresh weight for all the tested genotypes. After 7 d of exposure to drought or salt stress, there was a dramatic increase in Pro content, with levels quintupling in Col-0 and rgga. In AtRGGA-overexpressing plants, the increase in Pro was less sharp, particularly after drought stress, where plants from three independent transgenic lines accumulated significantly less Pro (Fig. 7B). In salt stress, however, only one of the three tested lines was significantly different from wild-type or rgga levels (Fig. 7B). [[FIGURE]] To analyze the impact of a modified expression of AtRGGA on the Arabidopsis transcriptome, microarray analyses were performed on RNA extracted from AtRGGA knockout or overexpressing seedlings grown in control conditions or after exposure to salt stress. The results of microarray analysis were validated using quantitative PCR (qPCR; Supplemental Table S2). In general, an overall perturbation of the transcriptome was observed both in control and stress treatments, with large numbers of genes showing a variation in gene expression in rgga and 35S::FLAG-RGGA (Supplemental Tables S3–S10). An analysis using the Singular Enrichment Analysis tool of agriGO (CITATION) was performed to identify significantly enriched Gene Ontology (GO) terms in each treatment/genotype. In both mutant and overexpressing plants in control and stress conditions, several GO terms were significantly enriched either in down- and up-regulated genes, with the terms response to stimulus, regulation of cellular process, and biological regulation having among the lowest false discovery rate values in most of the conditions considered (Supplemental Figs. S5 and S6). Genes showing opposite behaviors in the mutant and overexpressing lines in terms of up- or down-regulation as compared with Col-0 are summarized for controls (Table I) and salt stress conditions (Table II). As expected, AtRGGA (At4g16830) was present in both conditions as down-regulated in the knockout plants and up-regulated in overexpressing plants. In control conditions, DEHYDRATION-RESPONSIVE ELEMENT-BINDING PROTEIN2A (DREB2A) and DREB19, key transcription factors involved in drought stress responses, and several heat shock proteins, including HSP21 and HSP22, were down-regulated in rgga and had an opposite behavior in 35S::FLAG-RGGA (Table I). After stress treatment, several genes coding for SAUR-like auxin-responsive proteins were up-regulated in rgga and down-regulated in 35S::FLAG-RGGA (Table II). Among the genes down-regulated in rgga and up-regulated in 35S::FLAG-RGGA, we identified the reactive oxygen species scavengers APX2, a cytosolic member of the l-ascorbate peroxidase gene family, and GSTU9, together with transcription factors WRKY41 and WRKY50, the latter previously shown to be involved in defense responses and the former recently shown to be involved in the modulation of ABSCISIC ACID INSENSITIVE3 transcript abundance and ABA sensitivity at the seed and early seedling stages (CITATION; CITATION). The locus corresponding to AtRGGA is highlighted in boldface. The locus corresponding to AtRGGA is highlighted in boldface.
!~MM~! Potato (Solanum tuberosum ‘Desirèe’) cell cultures were generated, maintained, and gradually or abruptly exposed to 20% (w/v) PEG 8000 as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) MM2D cells (ecotype Landsberg erecta) were maintained as described (CITATION) in continuous dark conditions. For gene expression analyses, cells were treated for 24 h with NaCl (150 mm), ABA (50 μm), or 10% (w/v) PEG 8000. Cell viability was assessed by adding fluorescein diacetate (2 µL of a 5 mg mL−1 stock) to 100 µL of cell culture. Viability was expressed as the percentage of viable cells in stress versus control conditions. Arabidopsis plants of the Col-0 ecotype were used throughout this study. A knockout line for AtRGGA (rgga; SALK_143514) was obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre, and homozygous plants were selected by PCR. Primers were selected using the T-DNA Express primer design tool (http://signal.salk.edu/tdnaprimers.2.html; Supplemental Table S1). Transgenic plants overexpressing FLAG-tagged RGGA in the Col-0 background were generated by floral dip transformation (CITATION). For gene expression studies, 14-d-old seedlings grown on solid GM medium were transferred to plates containing NaCl (50, 100, or 150 mm) and incubated for 24 h or incubated for 7 d on plates containing 35% (w/v) PEG, NaCl (120 mm), or ABA (10 μm). For germination analyses, seeds were sown in the presence of NaCl (120 mm). Germination was scored in terms of fully expanded cotyledons after 7 d of incubation. Survival tests were carried out using 18-d-old seedlings germinated on GM plates and transferred to NaCl- or ABA-containing medium (180 mm or 50 μm, respectively). Survival was scored daily in terms of absence of necrotic or bleached leaves. To score root growth in the presence of ABA, 4-d-old seedlings grown on GM medium and showing equal primary root length were transferred to GM medium or medium with 20 µm ABA. Photographs were taken, and root length was scored 10 d after transfer. Stress treatments in soil were performed on 4-week-old plants by water withdrawal for 7 d or by watering with 300 mm NaCl every other day for 7 d. In each irrigation event, the volume of the salt solution was 5% of the pot volume. For microarray gene expression analyses, 10-d-old seedlings grown on GM plates were transferred to GM or GM + 180 mm NaCl plates for 48 h prior to RNA extraction. Gateway technology (Life Technologies) was used to obtain binary vectors for promoter and protein localization studies as well as to produce transgenic overexpressing plants. The putative promoter of AtRGGA (corresponding to 2 kb upstream of ATG) was amplified from genomic DNA extracted from Col-0 plant RGGA coding sequence amplified from clone U22150 provided by The Arabidopsis Information Resource. PCR amplifications were carried out using Pfu DNA polymerase (Stratagene). Primers used are listed in Supplemental Table S1. The promoter and coding sequences were cloned into pDONR207 using BP clonase to obtain AtRGGAPromoter::pDONR207 and AtRGGA::pDONR207 entry vectors. LR clonase was used for recombination with destination vectors, which were pMDC164 (CITATION) for promoter studies, pEG101 and pEG104 (CITATION) for protein localization studies, and pEG202 (CITATION) to produce FLAG-tagged overexpressing plants. To produce His-tagged AtRGGA in Escherichia coli, the coding sequence was amplified and cloned between SalI and NotI restriction sites of pET28a vector. All constructs were sequenced to rule out the presence of mutations introduced by PCR. The His-tagged AtRGGA from pET28a constructs was overexpressed following transformation in E. coli BL21 (DE3). Cells were recovered and lysed by 1 mg mL−1 lysozyme after growth at 37°C on Luria-Bertani medium supplemented with 50 μg mL−1 kanamycin. Induction was carried out by adding 0.5 mm isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside to a culture at an optical density measured at 600 nm of 1 and then incubating the culture at 37°C for 4 h. Protein constructs were purified by nickel affinity chromatography as described by the manufacturer (Qiagen). The purified protein was analyzed by SDS-PAGE as described by CITATION. qPCR gene expression analyses used 1 µg of DNaseI-treated RNA converted to complementary DNA utilizing SuperScript II Reverse Transcriptase and oligo(dT20) following the manufacturer’s instructions (Life Technologies). The obtained complementary DNA was diluted 1:20, and 4.5 µL was used for each qRT-PCR, carried out with Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix and Elongation Factor EF1α as an endogenous control. Primers used (5 µm) are listed in Supplemental Table S1. qRT-PCR was performed with ABI 7900 HT (Applied Biosystems). At least nine technical replicates per gene per biological replicate were performed. Three biological replicates per genotype were tested, and data were analyzed using RQ Manager followed by analysis with Data Assist (Applied Biosystems) to group together the different replicates and biological replicates and perform statistical analysis. For microarray gene expression studies, RNA extracted using Trizol (Life Technologies) was quantified and quality checked using the Nanodrop-ND 8000 spectrophotometer (Thermo Fisher Scientific) and the 2100 Bioanalyzer (Agilent Technologies), respectively. Samples with the RNA integrity number of 9 and above were chosen for further analysis. Microarray analysis was performed using the Arabidopsis (V4) Gene Expression Microarray, Design ID: 021169 (Agilent Technologies), containing 43,803 Arabidopsis gene probes and 1,417 Agilent control probes. Total RNA (150 ng) was used to prepare cyanine-3-labeled probe with the help of the low-RNA input linear amplification/labeling kit (Agilent Technologies). The dye incorporation and the copy RNA yield were measured using the Nanodrop-ND 8000 spectrophotometer (Thermo Fisher Scientific). Labeled copy RNA probes (1.65 µg) were fragmented using fragmentation buffer (Agilent Technologies) and hybridized to the Arabidopsis arrays in the presence of the gene expression hybridization buffer HI-RPM and blocking agent (Agilent Technologies) for 17 h at 65°C with a 10-rpm rotation speed in a hybridization oven (Agilent Technologies). After the 17-h incubation, the arrays were washed using low-stringency wash buffer 1 (Agilent Technologies) at room temperature for 1 min followed by a high-stringency wash using wash buffer 2 (Agilent Technologies) at 37°C. The arrays were air dried and scanned using the high-resolution array scanner (Agilent Technologies) with the appropriate settings for the one-color gene expression arrays. The signal intensities were extracted from the scanned images with the aid of Feature Extraction Software 10.7.1.1 (Agilent Technologies) and subjected to background subtraction and spatial detrending. The outliers and the abnormal features were flagged, and the data were normalized using intraarray percentile shift normalization (threshold of 75 and above) and median-based interarray normalization. GeneSpring GX (Agilent Technologies) was used to calculate the intensity ratios and fold changes. All the genes with P values below 0.05 and fold change above 2 were chosen for GO enrichment analysis, which was carried out by Sequentia Italia as described below. Common sets of differentially expressed genes were identified between the different groups by using Venny (http://bioinfogp.cnb.csic.es/tools/venny/index.html; CITATION). The identification of enriched GO functional categories was performed by using the Singular Enrichment Analysis tool of agriGO (http://bioinfo.cau.edu.cn/agriGO/analysis.php). Arabidopsis was selected as a supported species, and the suggested background was used. A hypergeometric test was used as a statistical method to identify enriched categories, while the other parameters were left as default. When the number of enriched categories was too much for easy understanding, the software REVIGO (http://revigo.irb.hr; CITATION) was used to obtain reduced lists. The dimension of the output list was set to small, and the database of Arabidopsis GO terms was used. To detect the FLAG-RGGA fusion protein in overexpressing lines, immunoblotting was performed using α-FLAG antibody (Sigma-Aldrich). Total proteins were extracted from 100 mg of tissue using extraction buffer (2 m urea, 0.1 m NaH2PO4, and 0.01 m Tris, pH 8) and protease inhibitor cocktail (Sigma-Aldrich). After clarification, protein concentration was estimated using the Bradford reagent assay (Bio-Rad), and 50 µg of total protein was used for SDS-PAGE followed by transfer on nitrocellulose membranes (Amersham, GE Healthcare). A 1:5,000 dilution of α-FLAG antibody was used for immunoblotting following the manufacturer’s instructions. Total RNA (700 ng) extracted from control and salt stress-treated plants was labeled with biotin using the RNA 3′ End Biotinylation Kit (Pierce Biotechnology) following the manufacturer’s instructions. One microliter of a 1:20 dilution (approximately 30 ng) of the labeled RNA was used for each EMSA reaction. Similar amounts of labeled RNA were also used for poly(A+) and poly(A−) RNA, which were prepared using the mRNA Isolation Kit (Roche Applied Science). RNA was incubated with 7.5 µg of His-tagged AtRGGA or His-tagged PYR1. When present, unlabeled RNA was used as a competitor at 560 ng (approximately 160-fold). The RNA EMSA was carried out with the LightShift Chemiluminescent RNA EMSA Kit (Pierce Biotechnology). The binding reaction was analyzed by gel electrophoresis on a native 6% polyacrylamide gel in 0.5× Tris-borate/EDTA buffer and transferred to a nylon membrane. Pro extraction from Arabidopsis plants grown in soil and subjected to drought stress was carried out as described by CITATION. Briefly, 500 mg of leaves was ground in liquid nitrogen and resuspended in an aqueous solution containing 3% (w/v) 5-sulfosalicylic acid. Suspension was clarified with Ederol round filters (Schleicher & Schull). One milliliter of filtered suspension was diluted with 1 mL of glacial acetic acid and 1 mL of a 2.5% ninhydrin solution (glacial acetic acid:water:orthophosphoric acid, 6:3:1). After incubation at 100°C for 1 h, samples were read at an optical density measured at 546 nm. Three biological replicates were analyzed for each genotype, and each sample was replicated at least three times. Confocal imaging was carried out with the Leica TCS SP2 system. Propidium iodide staining was carried out as described previously (CITATION). Staining times were as follows: 1 min to counterstain cell walls only, and at least 1 h to achieve minimal nuclear staining. The following supplemental materials are available. Supplemental Figure S1. Alignment of deduced RGGA protein sequences of potato and Arabidopsis. Supplemental Figure S2. Cell viability measurements of Arabidopsis MM2D cells. Supplemental Figure S3. AtRGGA gene expression in Arabidopsis tissues and developmental stages. Supplemental Figure S4. Phenotypes of Arabidopsis plants with modified expression of AtRGGA. Supplemental Figure S5. Enriched GO categories of differentially expressed genes in 35S::FLAG-RGGA plants. Supplemental Figure S6. Enriched GO categories of differentially expressed genes in rgga plants. Supplemental Table S1. Primers used in this study. Supplemental Table S2. qPCR validation of microarray results. Supplemental Table S3. Genes repressed in the rgga mutant in salt stress conditions. Supplemental Table S4. Genes induced in the rgga mutant in salt stress conditions. Supplemental Table S5. Genes induced in the rgga mutant in control conditions. Supplemental Table S6. Genes repressed in the rgga mutant in control conditions. Supplemental Table S7. Genes induced in plants overexpressing RGGA in salt stress conditions. Supplemental Table S8. Genes repressed in plants overexpressing RGGA in salt stress conditions. Supplemental Table S9. Genes induced in plants overexpressing RGGA in control conditions. Supplemental Table S10. Genes repressed in plants overexpressing RGGA in control conditions.
