!~ABS~! Eukaryotic endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-plasma membrane (PM) contact sites are evolutionarily conserved microdomains that have important roles in specialized metabolic functions such as ER-PM communication, lipid homeostasis, and Ca2+ influx. Despite recent advances in knowledge about ER-PM contact site components and functions in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) and mammals, relatively little is known about the functional significance of these structures in plants. In this report, we characterize the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) phospholipid binding Synaptotagmin1 (SYT1) as a plant ortholog of the mammal extended synaptotagmins and yeast tricalbins families of ER-PM anchors. We propose that SYT1 functions at ER-PM contact sites because it displays a dual ER-PM localization, it is enriched in microtubule-depleted regions at the cell cortex, and it colocalizes with Vesicle-Associated Protein27-1, a known ER-PM marker. Furthermore, biochemical and physiological analyses indicate that SYT1 might function as an electrostatic phospholipid anchor conferring mechanical stability in plant cells. Together, the subcellular localization and functional characterization of SYT1 highlights a putative role of plant ER-PM contact site components in the cellular adaptation to environmental stresses.
!~RES~! SYT1 contains a modular structure similar to ER-PM tether proteins such as E-Syts and tricalbins (CITATION; CITATION), proteins that are localized at specific ER-PM subdomains (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Moreover, cell biological and biochemical analyses have reported SYT1 being at the ER, PM, and plasmodesmata (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To unequivocally establish the SYT1 subcellular localization, we developed new polyclonal anti-SYT1244-541 antibodies (hereafter, anti-SYT1), and demonstrated their specificity by the absence of signal in the null syt1-2 mutant (hereafter, syt1) via western blot and immunolocalization (Supplemental Fig. S1). Next, we performed immunolocalization analyses in transgenic Arabidopsis lines expressing the GFP-tagged ER retention peptide HDEL (HDEL-GFP), and the PM markers PINFORMED2 (PIN2-GFP), BRASSINOSTEROID INSENSITIVE1 (BRI1-GFP), and PLASMA MEMBRANE INTRINSIC PROTEIN 2A (PIP2A-GFP). As shown in Figure 1B, the anti-SYT1 perinuclear signal colocalized with HDEL-GFP, confirming the broad ER localization of SYT1. Interestingly, at the cell cortex, the anti-SYT1 signal was characterized by a punctate pattern that was closely associated with HDEL-GFP but did not colocalize (Supplemental Fig. S1). Remarkably, in those cortical regions, the anti-SYT1 signal colocalized with PM markers PIN2-GFP, BRI1-GFP, and PIP2A-GFP (Fig. 1C; Supplemental Fig. S2), suggesting a dual ER-PM localization. To analyze the SYT1 subcellular localization in leaf epidermal cells, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis lines expressing a C-terminal translational fusion of GFP to SYT1 (SYT1proSYT1-GFP; hereafter, SYT1-GFP). At the cell cortex, the SYT1-GFP marker appeared as a reticulate network of beads and strings (Fig. 1D) that was clearly different from the classical network of sheets and interconnected tubules observed in the luminal ER marker HDEL-GFP and the GFP-tagged membrane-associated ER marker SECRETORY 12P-LIKE-GFP (Supplemental Fig. S3). At the equatorial plane, the SYT1-GFP marker appeared as a punctuate signal at the cell periphery (Fig. 1E), and signal movement through transvacuolar strands was observed (Supplemental Movie S1). Transient colocalization in Nicotiana benthamiana of a Red Fluorescent Protein (RFP)-tagged SYT1 fused to its endogenous promoter(SYT1proSYT1-RFP) with the ER-targeted yellow cameleon 4.60 (CITATION) showed that the SYT1 signal was enriched at specific ER subdomains (Supplemental Fig. S3). A high-resolution subcellular localization for SYT1 was obtained by immunogold Transmission Electron Microscopy (immunoTEM) of high-pressure frozen, freeze-substituted wild-type roots probed with the anti-SYT1 antibody. Similar to previous immunoTEM results (CITATION), the anti-SYT1 signal was observed at both the ER and PM (Supplemental Fig. S4). However, the use of more specific and sensitive antibodies together with the better structural preservation of the high-pressure frozen samples enabled us to observe an enrichment of the anti-SYT1 signal in regions where the cortical ER was in close apposition to the PM (Fig. 2A), and between cortical microtubule bundles (Fig. 2B). Since the SYT1 localization at the ER-PM interface strongly resembled that of the recently reported Arabidopsis VAP27 and NET3C ER-PM markers (CITATION), we next performed transient colocalization studies using the RFP-tagged VAP27 fused to the Ubiquitin-10 promoter (UBQ10proVAP27-RFP) and SYT1proSYT1-GFP markers in N. benthamiana leaves. As shown in Figure 2, C and D, the markers colocalized to a great extent in both intracellular and cortical regions of the cell. Together, these data strongly suggest that SYT1 is enriched at ER-PM contact sites, a feature shared with the E-Syts and tricalbins in animals and yeast, respectively. [[FIGURE]] Once we determined that SYT1 populations with different subcellular localizations coexist in plant cells, we analyzed the dynamics of SYT1-GFP using time-lapse and fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP) assays. The time-lapse experiments showed that the intracellular SYT1-GFP signal was highly dynamic, and different SYT1-GFP localizations within the transvacuolar strands were detected on frames separated by 15 s (Supplemental Movie S1). In contrast, the cortical SYT1-GFP signal was spatially restricted to largely stationary positions (Fig. 3A; Supplemental Fig. S5; Supplemental Movie S2). FRAP analysis of the cortical SYT1-GFP signals showed the recovery of 50% of the signal was achieved in less than 5 min (Fig. 3, B and C; Supplemental Movie S3). Notably, the recovered signal positions strongly resembled those marked by the prebleached SYT1-GFP, further supporting the nearly stationary nature of the SYT1-GFP cortical sites (Fig. 3D;Supplemental Fig. S5; Supplemental Movie S4). [[FIGURE]] In actively dividing root epidermal cells, the SYT1 signal transitioned from the ER to the mitotic spindle at metaphase and was delivered to the forming cell plate during cytokinesis (Fig. 4A). This result suggests that the spatial localization of SYT1 might be partially controlled by the microtubule cytoskeleton. To further investigate this possible link, we performed colocalization studies of SYT1 with different MT markers. In roots, the anti-SYT1 and the GFP-tagged mammalian MICROTUBULE-ASSOCIATED PROTEIN4 (MAP4-GFP) signals were mutually exclusive, indicating that the SYT1 puncta were mainly located within MT-depleted regions (Fig. 4B). The same result was obtained when the anti-SYT1 signal was compared with that generated by a monoclonal antibody that recognizes the tyrosinated form of the alpha-tubulin subunit (Fig. 4C). In shoots, we analyzed the SYT1 localization using a stable double transgenic line harboring the RFP-tagged TUBULIN6 (TUA6-RFP) and SYT1-GFP markers. As shown in Figure 4, D and E, both signals were largely separated with an estimated colocalization rate that ranged from 4% to 12%, depending on the sample and microscopy settings used (n = 24 cells). Finally, we treated lines expressing the Arabidopsis SYT1-GFP marker with cytoskeleton depolymerizing drugs. As shown in Figure 4, F to H (controls shown in Supplemental Fig. S6), F-actin depolymerization induced by latrunculin B abolished SYT1-GFP cytoplasmic streaming (Supplemental Movie S5) and caused the aggregation of the intracellular/ER SYT1-GFP pool, whereas the cortical pool remained mostly unaffected. Interestingly, oryzalin-mediated MT depolymerization changed neither the intracellular ER nor the cortical SYT1-GFP distributions in shoot epidermal cells, but changes in SYT1-GFP distributions were observed in mature guard cells (Fig. 4H). These results suggest that, once established, the ER-PM contact sites do not require the cytoskeleton scaffold to maintain their position in leaf epidermal cells, but this process might be differentially regulated in guard cells. [[FIGURE]] Similar to most tricalbins and E-Syts (CITATION; CITATION), SYT1 contains a predicted TM domain and phospholipid binding C2 domains through which it could connect the ER to the PM in trans. To assess the accuracy of these predictions and to distinguish between the two possible SYT1 orientations (TM anchored at the ER and C2 domains tethering the PM, or TM anchored at the PM and C2 domains tethering the ER), we first analyzed where isolated SYT1 C2 domains were targeted. For this purpose, we generated stable transgenic lines harboring the SYT1244-541 peptide containing the GFP-tagged SYT1 C2 domains C2A and C2B (SYT1-C2AB; CITATION) fused to the 35S promoter. We also used a 35SproGFP and the SYT1-GFP lines as controls. As shown in Figure 5A, the 35SproGFP and the 35SproC2AB-GFP markers were both partially targeted to the nucleus, but whereas the 35SproGFP construct strongly labeled the cytosol, the 35SproC2AB-GFP construct was mainly targeted to the PM. This subcellular localization was further assessed by localization analysis of the different markers in plasmolyzed cells (Supplemental Fig. S7) and colocalization studies with the endocytic tracer N-(3-triethylammoniumpropyl)-4-{6-[4-(diethylamino) phenyl] hexatrienyl} pyridinium dibromide (FM4-64) that labels the PM in short-term treatments (CITATION; Supplemental Fig. S8). In all cases, the subcellular localization of C2AB-GFP was different from the punctuated PM pattern observed for SYT1-GFP, suggesting that (1) the SYT1 TM domain is anchored to the ER and the C2 domains tether the PM, and (2) the SYT1 TM and SMP domains might restrict the positions where the SYT1 C2 domains bind to the PM; that is, to regions where the ER is in close contact with the PM. [[FIGURE]] In mammals, the E-Syts C2 domains have been reported to bind phosphatidylinositol phosphates (PtdInsPs) in both a Ca2+-dependent and Ca2+-independent manner (CITATION). Once we determined that the SYT1 C2 domains were targeted to the PM, we aimed to identify phospholipid species that might be involved in the C2-PM tethering process. Thus, we performed in vitro protein-lipid overlay assays using the purified SYT1-C2AB peptide in the presence or absence of Ca2+. In the presence of Ca2+ (10 μm Ca2+; Fig. 5B), the SYT1-C2AB peptide bound phosphatidylserine (PS), phosphatidic acid (PA), lysophosphatidic acid (LPA), and each of the negatively charged PtdInsPs, but not phosphatidylinositol (PtdIns). In the absence of Ca2+ (5 mm EGTA; Fig. 5B), the SYT1-C2AB strongly reduced the affinity for PS and slightly reduced the affinity for most of the PtdInsPs species. Together, these results suggest that the SYT1-C2AB binding to PM-localized PtdInsPs is largely Ca2+ independent and largely relies on electrostatic interactions. Previous reports have shown that SYT1 loss of function causes hypersensitivity to conditions that generate changes in cellular turgor, such as osmotic, ionic, and freezing stresses (for review, see CITATION). Due to its subcellular localization and putative tethering function, we hypothesized that SYT1 might function as a structural component required to withstand external and internal physicomechanical forces. To gain further insights into this putative role, we determined whether the expression of SYT1 responds to mechanical damage using transgenic plants transformed with the reporter β-glucuronidase gene driven by the SYT1 promoter (SYT1proGUS). As shown in Figure 6A, the SYT1proGUS signal was strongly induced by mechanical damage. Next, we analyzed the behavior of the SYT1-GFP marker subjected to controlled pressure (6,750 Pa). As shown in Figure 6B, the organized SYT1-GFP reticulated structures developed into more defined SYT1-GFP aggregates after 20-s treatments. A similar behavior was observed when the HDEL-GFP marker was used, suggesting that changes in ER morphology might represent an early response to mechanical stress. Under similar conditions, the cytoskeleton MAP4-GFP marker partially depolymerized, indicating that different cortical structures were quickly responding to mechanical stress cues (Fig. 6B). To investigate whether SYT1 has a functional role in mechanical stress responses, we next analyzed the cellular stability of the syt1 mutant upon mechanical stress. First, we observed that syt1 protoplasts displayed reduced tolerance to mechanical stress compared with the wild type, suggesting that SYT1 has a role in mechanical stress adaptation that is, at least in part, cell wall independent (Supplemental Fig. S9). In leaves, the application of mechanical stress inhibited their expansion and caused more extensive tissue damage in syt1 compared with the wild type (Fig. 6C). The extent of the damage was further evaluated using trypan blue, a vital stain that cannot be excluded by dead cells. Although trypan blue stain was limited to a few individual cells within the pressed area in the wild type, the stain was observed in most cells either within or adjacent to the pressed area in syt1 (Fig. 6D). This difference in damage was quantified by measuring electrolyte leakage of mechanically excised wild-type and syt1 leaf discs. Figure 6E shows that the normalized conductivity of the solution containing syt1 leaf discs was approximately 45% higher than that of the solution containing wild-type discs. Consistent with the observed mechanical stress hypersensitivity, the application of heavy mechanical loads (6,750 Pa) caused the collapse of 5% of the wild-type (n = 122) and 44% of the syt1 (n = 120 cells) epidermal cells harboring the HDEL-GFP marker, and 3% of the wild-type (n = 103) and 28% of the syt1 (n = 118 cells) epidermal cells harboring the MAP4-GFP marker (Fig. 6, F and G). Remarkably, the application of light mechanical loads (1,125 Pa) enhanced the depolymerization of the MAP4-GFP marker in syt1 (74%; n = 131) compared with the wild type (14%; n = 107), indicating that this early mechanical response was also altered in the syt1 background (Supplemental Fig. S10). Despite the multiple phenotypes associated with SYT1 depletion, no clear morphological differences at the cortical ER were observed between the wild type and syt1 (Supplemental Fig. S11). This result suggests that SYT1 is important for ER-PM function, but additional components might be required for ER-PM contact sites establishment. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! For microscopy assays, surface-sterilized and cold-stratified Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) seeds were grown as described in CITATION. For drug treatments, 4-d-old seedlings grown on solid one-half-strength Murashige and Skoog salts supplemented with 1% (w/v) Suc (basal medium) were transferred to 12-well plates containing liquid basal medium supplemented with 1 µm latrunculin B, 25 µm oryzalin, or mock (0.1% [v/v] dimethyl sulfoxide) and incubated for 24 h. After treatments, seedlings were rinsed and mounted on microscopy slides using water. The SYT1 and VAP27 constructs were generated through multisite gateway cloning. A 970-bp SYT1 promoter fragment (CITATION) was cloned into pDONRP4P1R (Invitrogen), and a 615-bp UBQ10 promoter fragment was cloned in the pENTR 5′-TOPO vector. The genomic fragments of the SYT1 and VAP27 coding sequence were amplified from Col-0 DNA and recombined into pDONR221 (Invitrogen). The ER-targeted yellow cameleon 4.60 was subcloned from pBI121 vector (CITATION) into the multicloning site of pGEM3Zf(+) using restriction fragments generated by XbaI and SacI, allowing for further subcloning into pENTR1A using the resulting SalI and EcoRI restriction fragment. For the C-terminal XFP fusions (GFP, pEN-R2-F-L3,0; mRFP, pEN-R2-R-L3,0 [CITATION]; and TagRFP, pEN-R2-TagRFPSTOP-L3 [CITATION]), the respective entry vectors were recombined together with the respective promotor and coding sequence entry vectors into pKm43GW or pBm43GW (CITATION). For the promoter GUS construct, the SYT1 promoter fragment was recombined with pEN-L1-S-L2 into pKm42GW (CITATION). The obtained constructs were transformed into Col-0 via floral dip (CITATION) or were used for transient expression in Nicotiana benthamiana. Suspensions of Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA4404 harboring the different constructs were grown to an optical density at 600 nm of 0.5 and infiltrated into 4-week-old N. benthamiana leaves as previously described in CITATION. Transiently transformed leaves were imaged 3 to 5 d after infiltration using a Pascal Excite laser scanning confocal microscope (Zeiss) equipped with a 488-nm argon laser for GFP and a 543-nm He-Ne laser for RFP. Sequential line scanning mode was used to separate signals. Five-day-old root tips were used and all working solutions were prepared in microtubule stabilization buffer (50 mm PIPES, 5 mm EGTA, and 5 mm MgSO4 [pH 7]). Sample preparation followed the basic protocol described in CITATION. For immunodetection, a polyclonal rabbit anti-SYT1 antibody (1:1,000) or a monoclonal anti-Tyr-tubulin mouse IgG3 (TUB-1A2; Sigma-Aldrich; 1:400) was incubated overnight at 4°C. For immunodetection, the root tips were incubated for 1 h with TRITC-conjugated AffiniPure Donkey anti-Rabbit IgG (1:200; Jackson Immunoresearch), Alexa Fluor 488 Goat anti-mouse (1:600; Invitrogen) and/or sheep anti-rabbit IgG (whole molecule), F(ab')2 fragment-Cy3 (1:600; Sigma-Aldrich), and mounted on microscopy slides using the glycerol-based AF1 Mountant Solution (Citifluor). Five-day-old roots were high-pressure frozen using a Leica HPM 100 with B-type sample carriers with 1-hexadecene as a cryoprotectant. Cryofixed samples were freeze substituted in 0.25% glutaraldehyde, 0.1% uranyl acetate, and 8% dimethoxypropane in acetone, embedded in LR white resin (London Resin Company Ltd), sectioned, and poststained as described (CITATION). Immunolabeling was performed according to CITATION with 1:100 primary anti-SYT1 antibody and 1:100 goat-anti-rabbit 10-nm gold conjugate (BBI Solutions). As negative controls, wild-type sections were treated without primary antibody, and syt1 mutant sections were treated with anti-SYT1 and the gold-conjugated secondary antibody. Samples were imaged at 0.8 kV using a Zeiss EM910 coupled to an Olympus Quemesa CCD camera. Immunolocalization and cell viability images were obtained using a Leica TCS SP5 II or a Zeiss 710 confocal microscope equipped with 405-nm diode lasers for 4′,6-diamino-phenylindole, a 488-nm argon laser for GFP, Alexa488 and fluorescein diacetate, and a 561-nm He-Ne laser for FM4-64, Cy3, and TRITC signals. For colocalization and cellular integrity analyses, sequential line scanning mode was used to separate signals. The SYT1-GFP images were obtained using a Zeiss-Pascal Excite laser scanning confocal microscope equipped with a 488-nm argon laser for GFP and a 543-nm He-Ne Laser for propidium iodide. For FRAP analysis, we adjusted the laser intensity and performed a single bleaching scan using a 405-nm diode laser. We collected images before and after bleaching using low laser intensities and monitored FRAP for 15 min with data acquisition points every 20 s. All microscopy images were processed using the Leica LAS AF Lite platform or the Java-based image processing program ImageJ (National Institutes of Health). All article figures were assembled using Adobe Photoshop CS. The phospholipid-binding analysis of the SYT1244-541 C2AB peptide was conducted using PIP Strips (Molecular Probes) as described by the manufacturer. In brief, the PIP strips were blocked for 1 h in 3% bovine serum albumin in Tris-buffered saline plus Tween 20 supplemented with either 10 µm CaCl2 or 5 mm EGTA and then incubated overnight at 4°C in blocking buffer containing 0.5 µg mL−1 SYT1244-541 C2AB peptide. The strips were incubated with the primary anti-SYT1 antibody (1:1,000) for 2 h and with the secondary horseradish peroxidase-conjugated goat anti-rabbit antibody (IgG-HRP, Santa Cruz Biotechnology, 1:14,000) for 1 h. The chemiluminiscent signal was detected using the Clarity western enhanced chemiluminescence substrate (Bio-Rad). Fully expanded 6-week-old rosette leaves from plants grown under short-day photoperiod (8 h of light/16 h of dark) were mechanically pressed perpendicularly to the midrib using the first pressure level of a surgical hemostatic clamp. After 1-h treatment, leaves were harvested and incubated for 6 min in boiling trypan blue staining solution (trypan-blue stock solution [10 g of phenol, 10 mL of lactic acid, 10 mL of glycerol, 10 mg of trypan blue] diluted 1:1 with ethanol) and changed to chloral hydrate destaining solution (2.5 g mL−1 in water). The destaining solution was changed several times during the next 3-d period, and the destained leaves were mounted on microscopy slides using 50% glycerol. Images were acquired using a Nikon Eclipse E 800 differential interference contrast microscope. For mechanical treatments at the cellular level, 5-d-old seedlings were mounted on microscopy slides using water, and variable weights ranging from 50 to 350 g were applied to the 22- × 22-mm coverslip for 20 s. Pressed cotyledons were observed under a confocal microscope immediately after treatment. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession number At2g20990 for SYT1. The syt1-2 allele used in the study corresponds to the transfer DNA insertion line SAIL_775_A08 (Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center stock no. CS834629). The following supplemental materials are available. Supplemental Figure S1. Functional domains of SYT orthologs and anti-SYT1 antibody specificity. Supplemental Figure S2. SYT1 colocalization with different PM markers. Supplemental Figure S3. Comparison between SYT1 and different ER markers. Supplemental Figure S4. ImmunoTEM controls. Supplemental Figure S5. SYT1-GFP time lapse and FRAP experiments. Supplemental Figure S6. Chemical treatment controls. Supplemental Figure S7. Subcellular localization of the 35SproGFP, 35SproC2AB, and SYT1-GFP markers in plasmolyzed cells. Supplemental Figure S8. Colocalization of the 35SproGFP, 35SproC2AB, and SYT1-GFP markers with FM4-64. Supplemental Figure S9. Protoplast viability assay in wild-type and syt1 backgrounds. Supplemental Figure S10. Severing activity upon mechanical stress in wild-type and syt1 backgrounds. Supplemental Figure S11. Gross ER morphology in wild-type and syt1 backgrounds. Supplemental Movie S1. SYT1-GFP marker movement through transvacuolar strands. Supplemental Movie S2. Time-lapse experiment using the SYT1-GFP marker. Supplemental Movie S3. FRAP analysis using the SYT1-GFP marker. Supplemental Movie S4. FRAP analysis of the SYT1-GFP cortical signal. Supplemental Movie S5. SYT1-GFP signal upon treatment with LatB.
