!~ABS~! Maturation of chloroplast ribosomal RNAs (rRNAs) comprises several endoribonucleolytic and exoribonucleolytic processing steps. However, little is known about the specific enzymes involved and the cleavage steps they catalyze. Here, we report the functional characterization of the single Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) gene encoding a putative YbeY endoribonuclease. AtYbeY null mutants are seedling lethal, indicating that AtYbeY function is essential for plant growth. Knockdown plants display slow growth and show pale-green leaves. Physiological and ultrastructural analyses of atybeY mutants revealed impaired photosynthesis and defective chloroplast development. Fluorescent microcopy analysis showed that, when fused with the green fluorescence protein, AtYbeY is localized in chloroplasts. Immunoblot and RNA gel-blot assays revealed that the levels of chloroplast-encoded subunits of photosynthetic complexes are reduced in atybeY mutants, but the corresponding transcripts accumulate normally. In addition, atybeY mutants display defective maturation of both the 5′ and 3′ ends of 16S, 23S, and 4.5S rRNAs as well as decreased accumulation of mature transcripts from the transfer RNA genes contained in the chloroplast rRNA operon. Consequently, mutant plants show a severe deficiency in ribosome biogenesis, which, in turn, results in impaired plastid translational activity. Furthermore, biochemical assays show that recombinant AtYbeY is able to cleave chloroplast rRNAs as well as messenger RNAs and transfer RNAs in vitro. Taken together, our findings indicate that AtYbeY is a chloroplast-localized endoribonuclease that is required for chloroplast rRNA processing and thus for normal growth and development.
!~RES~! To investigate the role of putative YbeY homologs in higher plants, we searched for homologs of the E. coli YbeY protein in 39 sequenced plant genomes, including photosynthetic eukaryotes and cyanobacteria (Supplemental Tables S1 and S2). Domain analysis revealed that all putative plant YbeYs contain a UPF0054 domain that is similar to bacterial YbeY (Fig. 1). The majority of plant YbeY proteins have an additional haloacid dehalogenase (HAD) hydrolase-like domain, while cyanobacterial YbeY proteins did not contain this domain (Fig. 1A; Supplemental Table S1). The conserved H3xH5xH motif, thought to confer a metal ion-dependent hydrolytic function (CITATION), is present in most plant YbeYs with both UPF0054 domain and HAD hydrolase-like domain (Fig. 1B). Phylogenetic analysis showed that these YbeYs can be classified into bacteria, lower plant, or algae, dicot, and monocot groups (Supplemental Fig. S1). In Arabidopsis, there is only one homolog (At2g25870) of the bacterial YbeY (Supplemental Table S1), which subsequently will be referred to as AtYbeY. AtYbeY contains both UPF0054 and HAD hydrolase-like domains (Fig. 1A). Reverse transcription (RT)-PCR analysis showed that the AtYbeY gene is expressed in all tissues examined but at a very low level in stems (Fig. 1C). Additionally, the level of AtYbeY transcripts was significantly increased when etiolated seedlings were transferred from the dark to the light (Fig. 1D). Bacterial YbeY was induced by heat shock (CITATION). The levels of AtYbeY transcripts were not significantly altered upon growth at 8°C, 22°C, 30°C, or 37°C for 1 and 2 h, while high temperature (45°C) increased its transcript abundance at 5 min and decreased subsequently (Supplemental Fig. S2). [[FIGURE]] To determine the subcellular localization of the AtYbeY protein, we constructed a gene fusion of AtYbeY with the gene for the GFP and transformed the chimeric gene into Arabidopsis wild-type plants. Protoplasts were isolated from transgenic plants expressing AtYbeY-GFP and analyzed by fluorescence microscopy. The green fluorescence of the reporter proteins overlapped completely with the red fluorescence of the chlorophyll, strongly suggesting that AtYbeY is localized in chloroplasts (Fig. 2). Chloroplast-localized Arabidopsis Thylakoid Formation1 (AtTHF1)-GFP was used here as a positive control (CITATION). This result is consistent with a recently published proteomic study that detected YbeY peptides in the soluble proteome of the chloroplast (CITATION). Taken together, our data indicate that YbeY is a conserved protein in plants and localized in plastids. [[FIGURE]] To study the function of AtYbeY, we identified two independent mutant alleles for the AtYbeY locus, atybeY-1 (CS830701) and atybeY-2 (SALK_080307), from the collection of transfer DNA (T-DNA) insertion lines of the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. The T-DNA insertions in atybeY-1 and atybeY-2 are in intron 6 and exon 7, respectively, of the AtYbeY gene (Fig. 3A). Quantitative reverse transcription (qRT)-PCR analysis indicated that expression of AtYbeY in atybeY-1 was extremely low (approximately 2% of the wild-type level) and was undetectable in atybeY-2 (Fig. 3, B and C). Additionally, we produced AtYbeY complemented lines in the atybeY-1 background and transgenic plants in which expression of AtYbeY was down-regulated by an artificial microRNA (amiRNA) approach (Fig. 3, B and C). When compared with the wild type, atybeY-1 and AtYbeY-amiRNA lines exhibited pale-green cotyledons and true leaves and grew slower under greenhouse conditions (Fig. 3D). Consistent with the pale-green color of the leaves, the total chlorophyll content and the levels of both chlorophyll a and chlorophyll b were significantly reduced in atybeY-1 and AtYbeY-amiRNA seedlings and mature plants compared with wild-type plants (Fig. 3E; Supplemental Fig. S3). The ratio of chlorophyll a/b was decreased in atybeY-1 and AtYbeY-amiRNA plants (Supplemental Fig. S4), tentatively suggesting that the (largely plastid-encoded) photosystem cores are more severely affected than the (nucleus-encoded) antennae. The mutant phenotype and the pigment deficiency of atybeY-1 were fully rescued in the AtYbeY complemented lines (Fig. 3). [[FIGURE]] Consistent with atybeY-2 likely representing a null allele (Fig. 3C), the atybeY-2 mutant displayed a much more severe phenotype than the atybeY-1 mutant. Homozygous atybeY-2 plants are unable to complete their life cycle when grown under our standard greenhouse conditions, while its heterozygous plants displayed no phenotype (Fig. 3D). On the contrary, AtYbeY complementation lines in atybeY-2 background had no defective phenotype and grew normally (Supplemental Fig. S5). In addition, heterozygous atybeY-2 mutants produced approximately 25% white seeds in young siliques (Supplemental Fig. S6A). However, abnormal or aborted seeds were not observed after seed maturation (Supplemental Fig. S6B). The severe phenotype of the homozygous atybeY-2 null mutant suggests that the chloroplast-localized AtYbeY protein is very important for plant viability under photoautotrophic growth conditions. To obtain insights into the physiological role of AtYbeY in photosynthesis, we determined the PSII capacity of atybeY mutants. Chlorophyll fluorescence induction experiments showed that the maximum quantum efficiency of PSII and the electron transport rate (ETR) were significantly lower in atybeY-1 than in the wild type (Fig. 4, A and B). Nonphotochemical quenching (reflecting light energy dissipation) was higher in atybeY-1 than in the wild type (Fig. 4C). To confirm the defect in chloroplast development suggested by the pale-green leaves of atybeY-1 mutant plants, cotyledons and true leaves of wild-type plants and atybeY-1 mutant plants were observed by light microscopy and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Toluidine blue staining of transverse leaf sections showed that fewer chloroplasts are present in cotyledons of the atybeY-1 mutant compared with the wild type (Fig. 5A). TEM analysis further revealed that, while chloroplasts in cotyledons and true leaves of wild-type seedlings contained a well-formed thylakoid system of stroma thylakoids and grana thylakoids, thylakoid formation was severely altered in the mutant. No stroma thylakoids and relatively more grana thylakoids were observed in chloroplasts of atybeY-1 cotyledons, and grana thylakoids overaccumulated in true leaves of atybeY-1 plants (Fig. 5B). As expected, the defect in thylakoid formation was fully rescued in the complemented line. Together, these results clearly indicate that AtYbeY is required for proper chloroplast development and thylakoid formation in Arabidopsis. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The pale-green phenotype and defective chloroplast development in atybeY-1 prompted us to examine photosynthetic pigment-containing complexes by blue-native (BN)-PAGE. Compared with the wild type, the accumulation of PSII supercomplexes and PSI monomers/PSII dimers was strongly reduced in atybeY-1, while the accumulation of trimeric Light-harvesting complex II (LHCII) was moderately increased (Fig. 6A). SDS-PAGE analysis of extracted total plant protein showed that the abundance of RbcL, the plastid-encoded large subunit of Rubisco, is drastically decreased in atybeY-1 and AtYbeY-amiRNA lines to less than 25% of the wild-type level (Fig. 6B; Supplemental Fig. S7). To determine the consequences of reduced AtYbeY expression for expression of the plastid genome, we used immunoblotting to analyze the levels of representative plastid-encoded protein components of thylakoidal protein complexes (Fig. 6C). In atybeY-1, the levels of D1 and D2, two reaction center proteins of PSII, were reduced to less than 25% of the wild-type levels, in line with the results of our chlorophyll fluorescence measurements (Fig. 4). Cytb6, a core subunit of the cytochrome b6f complex, and AtpB, an essential subunit of the ATP synthase, were also significantly decreased in the atybeY-1 mutant. Overall, the reduction in photosynthetic complex accumulation is in good agreement with the measured ETR values (Fig. 4B). In contrast to the plastid-encoded subunits of the photosystem cores, accumulation of Lhcb1, a nucleus-encoded antenna protein associated with PSII, was unaltered in the atybeY-1 mutant. Collectively, the immunoblot data support the idea that the expression of chloroplast genes is impaired in atybeY mutant plants. [[FIGURE]] The functions ascribed to the bacterial YbeY protein and the obtained evidence for defective plastid gene expression in atybeY-1 mutants prompted us to investigate whether AtYbeY mutations have an impact on chloroplast rRNA processing. Northern-blot analysis using RNA samples extracted from 10-d-old seedlings showed that the level of mature 16S rRNA (1.5-kb band) was reduced in atybeY-1 seedlings, while accumulation of the 16S rRNA precursor (1.7-kb band) was increased compared with the wild type (Fig. 7, A and B). Additional hybridizations using probes (a1 and a2; Fig. 7A) that specifically recognize 5′ and 3′ unprocessed precursors revealed that both 5′-end and 3′-end maturation of the 16S rRNA were severely impaired in atybeY-1 plants (Fig. 7B). Likewise, 23S rRNA precursors and processing intermediates (3.2-, 2.9-, 2.4-, and 1.7-kb bands) overaccumulated, while mature 23S transcripts were reduced in atybeY-1 plants. The overaccumulation of the 23S-4.5S precursor (3.2-kb band) was confirmed by hybridization with specific probes (b1 and b2) that bind to 5′ and 3′ unprocessed precursor molecules (Fig. 7B). Also, abundance of the mature 4.5S rRNAs was slightly reduced in atybeY-1 plants compared with the wild type, while pre-4.5S rRNAs overaccumulated in atybeY-1 (Fig. 7B). [[FIGURE]] Because rRNAs are not stable if not assembled in ribosomal subunits, rRNA accumulation can serve as a proxy for ribosomal subunit accumulation. We, therefore, investigated the effect of AtYbeY mutations on ribosome biogenesis at the cellular level. In atybeY-1 mutant plants, the accumulation level of 30S plastid ribosomal subunits was reduced to about 50% of the wild-type level (as evidenced by the ratio of cytosolic 18S rRNA to plastid 16S rRNA; Fig. 7C). The 23S rRNA is further processed into 0.5-, 1.2-, and 1.0-kb fragments (the hidden break of 23S rRNA [23HB] fragments; CITATION). The ratio of 16S/23HB1 also decreased, whereas the ratio of 18S-23HB1 slightly increased in atybeY-1 compared with the wild type (Fig. 7C). This result indicates that assembly of the 30S ribosomal subunit is affected more severely than that of the 50S subunit. Taken together, the ribosome accumulation data and the data from our rRNA processing analyses suggest that plastid ribosome biogenesis is specifically impaired upon AtYbeY deficiency. The chloroplast rRNA operon also contains three tRNA genes: trnI, trnA, and trnR. We examined whether the processing of these tRNA transcripts was affected in the atybeY-1 mutant. Compared with the wild type, the levels of mature trnI, trnA, and trnR transcripts were moderately reduced in atybeY-1 plants, while the polycistronic rRNA operon precursor (7.4-kb band) overaccumulated (Fig. 7D). The trnI and trnA precursors were further analyzed using specific probes binding to their introns. No significant difference in the accumulation levels of the trnI and trnA precursors was detected between the wild type and the atybeY-1 mutant, suggesting that splicing of these two tRNAs is not affected by the AtYbeY deficiency. To further assess the role of AtYbeY in rRNA processing, 5′ and 3′ ends were mapped by circular reverse transcription (cRT)-PCR. As shown in Figure 8, among 24 sequenced 16S rRNA molecules from the atybeY-1 mutant, 11 molecules were incorrectly processed at their 5′ end and 14 at their 3′ end. The smallest 23HB fragment was consistently found to be a 514-nucleotide RNA in wild-type plants. By contrast, five molecules with a 5′ extension of 69 nucleotides and 13 molecules with different 3′ extensions were detected in the atybeY-1 mutant. Likewise, all 30 clones sequenced for the second-largest 23HB species represented the mature 1.0-kb fragment in wild-type plants, whereas 24 different 5′ extensions and 20 different 3′ extensions were observed in the atybeY-1 mutant. Additionally, AtYbeY deficiency led to accumulation of abnormal 4.5S rRNA molecules carrying extensions at their 5′ and/or 3′ ends (Fig. 8). Thus, our findings indicate that AtYbeY is involved in processing of both the 5′ and the 3′ ends of chloroplast rRNAs. [[FIGURE]] To test whether AtYbeY has additional roles in the processing of other chloroplast RNAs, we examined the transcript levels of various chloroplast-encoded and nucleus-encoded genes using RNA gel-blot assay. No obvious differences between atybeY-1 and wild-type plants were observed in transcript levels of plastid-encoded RNA polymerase-dependent genes (rbcL, psaA, psbA, psbB, psbC, or atpB), nucleus-encoded RNA polymerase-dependent genes (accD), and the examined nuclear genes for chloroplast proteins (Lhcb1 and rbcS; Fig. 9A). Because protein accumulation of the plastid-encoded genes is reduced in the atybeY-1 mutant (Fig. 6), these data provide further evidence for AtYbeY being required for chloroplast translation. Interestingly, overaccumulation of the plastid-encoded petB and clpP1 transcripts was observed in the atybeY-1 mutant (Fig. 9A), suggesting a possible relationship between AtYbeY and mRNA metabolism, as proposed previously (CITATION). RNA gel-blot analysis of a subset of plastid tRNA genes (trnD, trnE, and trnQ) revealed overaccumulation in the atybeY-1 mutant (Fig. 9B). This could be a secondary consequence of the reduced usage of the tRNAs in translation, which may make them more stable. However, because the bacterial YbeY protein is an endoribonuclease (CITATION), it is also possible that AtYbeY has an additional role in mRNA and tRNA metabolism in chloroplasts. [[FIGURE]] To further confirm that protein biosynthesis in chloroplasts is impaired in atybeY mutants, we analyzed the association of chloroplast RNAs with ribosomes. To this end, polysomes (mRNAs loaded with translating ribosomes) were purified by Suc density gradient centrifugation. Northern-blot analyses of fractionated polysome gradients revealed that the 16S rRNA profile of the atybeY-1 mutant was similar to that of the wild type. However, the mature 16S rRNA was underrepresented in the polysomal fractions (fractions 7–12) of the atybeY-1 mutant (Fig. 10). Similarly, the mature hidden-break products of the 23S rRNA were reduced in polysomal fractions of the mutant, whereas the 23S-4.5S precursor overaccumulated in polysomes of atybeY-1 (Fig. 10). We also examined the polysome association of six plastid mRNAs (Fig. 10). Compared with the wild type, the mRNAs of petB, psaA, atpB, and rbcL were underrepresented in polysomal fractions from the atybeY-1 mutant (in that their distribution was shifted to lighter fractions of the gradient), indicating that these mRNAs are associated with fewer ribosomes and, hence, their translation is reduced. Taken together with defective processing of rRNAs in atybeY-1, these results indicate that AtYbeY deficiency leads to impaired plastid rRNA processing, which, in turn, causes inefficient ribosome biogenesis and reduced translational activity in chloroplasts. [[FIGURE]] To test whether AtYbeY has RNase activity in vitro, we purified recombinant AtYbeY, mutated AtYbeY (R184A and H240A; without the putative plastid transit peptide), and GFP (as negative control) proteins from E. coli for activity assay (Supplemental Fig. S8). Recombinant AtYbeY protein efficiently degraded total rRNAs extracted from wild-type plants, while the mutated AtYbeY (R184A and H240A) protein degraded them weakly (Fig. 11A). Mutated E. coli YbeY carrying the same amino acid exchanges (R59A and H114A) was found to be ineffective in complementing the growth phenotype of the yeby mutant (CITATION). In addition, AtYbeY moderately degraded rbcL mRNAs synthesized by in vitro transcription (Fig. 11B) and had slight degrading activity toward chloroplast tRNA (Fig. 11C). As expected for a RNase, AtYbeY was unable to degrade either double- or single-stranded DNA (Fig. 11D). Consistent with its predicted metal-dependent hydrolase activity, AtYbeY endoribonuclease activity was inhibited by EDTA, a metal chelator (Fig. 11E). To further characterize the endoribonuclease activity of AtYbeY, we used synthetic 5′- or 3′-end biotin-labeled oligoribonucleotide substrates mimicking the 5′ and 3′ terminus of the 16S rRNA. Recombinant AtYbeY displayed an endoribonuclease activity toward the synthetic substrates, although it did not precisely cleave 5′ or 3′ terminal precursor sequences of the 16S RNA in vitro (Fig. 11, F and G). Taken together, these in vitro results strongly suggest that AtYbeY is an endoribonuclease. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana; ecotype Columbia) plants were grown in soil under long-day conditions (16 h of light/8 h of dark) at a light intensity of 120 μmol photons m–2 s–1 at 22°C. Seeds were surface sterilized and stratified for 3 d at 4°C, then sown on one-half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium with 1% (w/v) Suc. Two atybeY mutant lines, CS830701 (atybeY-1) and SALK_080307 (atybeY-2), were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center and identified by PCR using genomic DNA and T-DNA-specific primers in combination with gene-specific primers (CITATION). T-DNA insertion sites were determined by sequencing of PCR products. For the dark-to-light shift experiment, 3-d-old etiolated seedlings were exposed to normal growth conditions with a light intensity of 120 μmol photons m–2 s–1 for different times. After treatments, samples were harvested for total RNA extraction. For mutant complementation and analysis of the subcellular localization of the AtYbeY protein, the entire coding sequence of AtYbeY was cloned into the Gateway binary vector pGWB2 and pGWB5 by an LR recombination reaction, generating an AtYbeY expression construct and an AtYbeY-GFP fusion construct, respectively. The constructs were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 and introduced into the atybeY-1 mutants, heterozygous atybeY-2, and wild-type plants by the floral-dip method (CITATION). To produce AtYbeY knockdown plants, an amiRNA (CITATION) construct for AtYbeY (AtYbeY-amiRNA) was generated. The chimeric amiRNA gene expressing the desired 21 mers was recombined into the pGWB2 vector, and the AtYbeY-amiRNA construct was introduced into Arabidopsis wild-type plants. Transgenic plants were selected for kanamycin resistance and assayed using PCR analysis. Chlorophyll content was determined in 80% (v/v) acetone (CITATION). Room temperature chlorophyll fluorescence of intact plants was recorded using a pulse amplitude modulated fluorimeter (CITATION). Chloroplast ultrastucture was analyzed by TEM as described by CITATION. For analysis of subcellular localization of AtYbeY, protoplasts were isolated from leaves of transgenic plants expressing AtYbeY-GFP, as described by CITATION. Fluorescence analysis of protoplasts was performed with a LSM500 confocal laser-scanning microscope. For cross-section analysis, cotyledons from 10-d-old seedlings were fixed in formaldehyde-acetic acid solution (50% [v/v] ethanol, 5% [v/v] acetic acid, and 3.7% [v/v] formaldehyde) and embedded in Paraplast Plus (Sigma). Eight-micrometer-thick sections from embedded tissues were cut with a microtome, stained with toluidine blue, and observed by bright-field light microscopy. Total RNA was extracted with the pBIOZOL Reagent (BioFlux), and complementary DNAs cDNAs were synthesized using the Prime Script RT reagent kit with gDNA Eraser (Takara). RNA gel blots were performed as described by CITATION. qRT-PCR was performed using the ABI 7500 real-time system with SYBR Green (Takara). The amplification of Actin2 was used as an internal control for normalization. cRT-PCR was performed as described by CITATION. Total RNA was circularized using T4 RNA ligase, and cDNA spanning the junction of the 5′ and 3′ ligated ends was synthesized with reverse gene primers. The fragment was amplified, cloned into the pJET1.2/blunt cloning vector (Thermo Scientific) and sequenced. All primers used in this study are listed in Supplemental Table S3. Soluble total proteins were extracted as described by CITATION. Thylakoid membranes were isolated as described by CITATION, and complexes were separated by BN-PAGE (CITATION). For immunoblotting, proteins were resolved by SDS-PAGE, transferred to Hybond-ECL Nitrocellulose membranes (GE) and incubated with specific antibodies. The signals were detected using a chemiluminescence detection system (GE) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Polysomes were fractionated by Suc density gradient centrifugation as described previously (CITATION). rRNA ratios were determined as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). rRNAs were analyzed and quantified in leaf RNA preparations and polysome gradient fractions using the Agilent Bioanalyzer System (Agilent Technologies), the Agilent RNA 6000 Nano Kit, and the software provided by the supplier. The ratios of plastid 16S rRNA (component of the 30S subunit) to plastid 23S rRNA (component of the 50S subunit), cytosolic 18S rRNA to plastid rRNAs, and cytosolic 25S rRNA to cytosolic 18S rRNA were calculated for the wild type, atybeY-1 mutant, and complemented atybeY-1 (atybeY-1comp) plants. The cDNAs of GFP, AtYbeY, and mutated AtYbeY (R184A and H240A) without the sequence encoding the transit peptide were respectively cloned into the pET-29a vector with a C-terminal His tag. Site-directed mutagenesis of AtYbeY (R184A and H240A) was performed using a double-stranded plasmid mutagenesis procedure according to the manufacturer’s protocol (TaKaRa MutanBEST Kit, Takara). AtYbeY, mutated AtYbeY (R184A and H240A), and GFP were expressed in bacterial strain BL21 (DE3) by the addition of 0.1 mm isopropylthio-β-galactoside for 5 h at 22°C and purified with Ni-NTA His-Bind Resin (Novagen) according to the manufacturer’s protocol. The obtained AtYbeY, mutated AtYbeY (R184A and H240A), and GFP protein samples were then loaded onto a Superdex 75 column, and the fractions containing AtYbeY and mutated AtYbeY (R184A and H240A) were collected and passed through a Mono-Q column to remove any other potential contaminants. Thereafter, the fractions containing AtYbeY, mutated AtYbeY (R184A and H240A), and GFP were respectively collected and concentrated in a buffer of 10 mm Tris (pH 7.4), 200 mm potassium acetate, and 10% (v/v) glycerol and stored at –80°C. The purified proteins were run on a denaturing SDS polyacrylamide gel and subjected to mass spectrometry to ascertain their purities. In vitro RNA degradation assays were carried out in 50 mm HEPES-KOH (pH 7.5) buffer at 37°C. The reaction products of the in vitro assays for total rRNAs and rbcL and trnD transcripts were detected by electrophoretic separation in agarose/formaldehyde gels stained with ethidium bromide. rbcL and trnD transcripts were synthesized in vitro using the TranscriptAid T7 High-Yield Transcription Kit (Thermo Scientific). Single-stranded DNAs corresponding to the rbcL gene sequence were synthesized in vitro using the Prime Script II First-Strand cDNA Synthesis Kit (Takara). The 5′- or 3′-end biotin-labeled oligoribonucleotide substrates (Pre16S-3# and Pre16S-5#) that mimic the 3′ and 5′ terminus of 16S rRNA were synthesized commercially (Takara) and used for in vitro endoribonuclease activity analysis of AtYbeY. The sequences of the synthetic substrates Pre16S-3# and Pre16S-5# were 5′(PO4)-U(biotin)GGAUCACCUCCUUUUCAGGGAGAGCUA-3′ and 5′(PO4)-UGCAACUAUGAAUCUCAUGGAGAGUUCG(biotin)-3′. The degradation products of synthetic substrates by AtYbeY were separated on 15% (w/v) denaturing polyacrylamide-urea gels, transferred electrophoretically to positively charged nylon membranes (Roche), and fixed by UV crosslinking. The blot was hybridized using anti-biotin-alkaline phosphatase antibody, and hybridization signals were detected with the CDP-Star reagent (Roche). For database searches and sequence analysis, see Supplemental Methods S1. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers AT2G25870 (AtYbeY), ATCG00490 (RBCL), ATCG00020 (PSBA), ATCG00350 (PSAA), ATCG00280 (PSBC), ATCG00680 (PSBB), ATCG00720 (PETB), ATCG00480 (ATPB), ATCG00500 (ACCD), ATCG00670 (CLPP1), AT1G29920 (LHCB1), AT1G67090 (RBCS), and AT3G18780 (ACTIN2). The following supplemental materials are available. Supplemental Figure S1. Phylogenetic analysis of YbeY proteins in Escherichia coli, thallophytes, and land plants. Supplemental Figure S2. Effects of heat shock on AtYbeY transcript levels determined by qRT-PCR in Arabidopsis seedlings. Supplemental Figure S3. Chlorophyll contents of wild-type and AtYbeY-amiRNA lines under long-day conditions. Supplemental Figure S4. Chlorophyll a/b ratio of wild-type, atybeY-1, and AtYbeY-amiRNA lines. Supplemental Figure S5. Complementation of the atybeY-2 mutant. Supplemental Figure S6. Siliques from wild-type, atybeY-1, and heterozygous atybeY-2+/− plants observed with a binocular microscope. Supplemental Figure S7. SDS-PAGE analysis of total proteins extracted from 10-d-old wild-type and AtYbeY-amiRNA lines. Supplemental Figure S8. SDS-PAGE analysis of the purified recombinant AtYbeY, mutated AtYbeY (R184A and H240A), and GFP proteins. Supplemental Table S1. Amino acid sequences of 52 putative homologs of the E. coli YbeY protein. Supplemental Table S2. Similarity analysis of UPF0054 domain sequences between E. coli YbeY and its homologs of photosynthetic eukaryotes and cyanobacteria. Supplemental Table S3. List of synthetic oligonucleotides used as primers (forward or reverse primers) in this study. Supplemental Methods S1. Database searches and sequence analysis.
