!~ABS~!  Arabidopsis thaliana possesses six branched-chain aminotransferases (BCAT1–6). Previous studies revealed that some members of this protein family are involved in the biosynthesis of branched-chain amino acids and/or in the Met chain elongation pathway, the initial steps towards the biosynthesis of Met-derived glucosinolates. We now analyzed branched-chain aminotransferase 6 (BCAT6). In vivo GFP-tagging experiments strongly suggest this enzyme to be localized to the cytosol. Substrate specificity assays performed with recombinant enzyme revealed that BCAT6 transaminates Val, Leu and Ile as well as the corresponding 2-oxo acids but also transaminates Met and its cognate ketoacid 4-methyl-2-oxobutanoate. We established single (bcat6-1), double (bcat4-2/bcat6-1) and triple (bcat3-1/bcat4-2/bcat6-1) mutants involving BCAT6 with the latter exhibiting a clear macroscopic phenotype with smaller plants and abnormal leaf morphology. Metabolite profiling of these mutants demonstrated that BCAT6 can contribute to Met chain elongation with the triple mutant line lacking BCAT3, 4 and 6 showing a dramatic reduction of Met-derived glucosinolate species down to 32 and 14 % of wild-type levels in plant foliage and seeds, respectively. This drop in glucosinolate levels is accompanied by a 46-fold increase of free Met, demonstrating the important role of the three branched-chain aminotransferases in converting Met to its 2-oxo acid for glucosinolate chain elongation. In addition, we determined the relative amounts of 5′-deoxy-5′-methylthioadenosine, an intermediate of the Met recycling pathway. This metabolite accumulated to relative high amounts in the absence of the cytosolic BCAT4 and BCAT6, suggesting that cytosolic Met salvage also contributes to the biosynthesis of glucosinolates.
!~RES~! The subcellular localization of BCAT6 (At1g50110) has not been previously studied, but the enzyme has been assumed to be localized in the cytosol since it lacks potential N-terminal extensions. To address this localization experimentally the complete BCAT6 reading frame was cloned in-frame upstream or downstream of the gene encoding the yellow fluorescent protein (YFP). These constructs were established in the pUC19 vector and used for transient transformation of tobacco protoplasts. As expected, the yellow fluorescence was observed in the cytosol, particularly with the construct in which the BCAT6 reading frame was fused to the C-terminus of the YFP gene (Fig. 1a, left panel). With BCAT6 located upstream of the YFP gene, localization was also observed in the cytosol, but the BCAT6:EYFP fusion protein might also slightly accumulate in the nucleus (Fig. 1a, right panel). To substantiate these results, we designed another construct in which BCAT6 was fused to the N-terminus of EGFP. This chimeric gene was established in the vector pMDC32, which allowed a stable introduction of the transgene via Agrobacterium into Arabidopsis. After selection of transformants, several different plant lines were established and investigated by epifluorescence microscopy. To this end, individual cells were released from the rosette leaf tissue of 21 d-old plants. Inspection of the protoplasts again revealed a diffuse distribution of the green fluorescence in the cytosol, which is consistent with the results observed with the transiently expressed fusion proteins. In both approaches fluorescence was never seen in chloroplasts, mitochondria or peroxisomes. Collectively, these data strongly suggest a localization of BCAT6 in the cytosol. Thus Arabidopsis contains two cytosolic BCATs, BCAT4 which catalyzes the committed step in the methionine chain elongation pathway of glucosinolate biosynthesis (Schuster et al. CITATION), and BCAT6. [[FIGURE]]  To get information about the substrate spectrum of BCAT6 we performed kinetic studies with recombinant BCAT6 protein and the three BCAAs and Met as well as the corresponding 2-oxo acids (Supplemental Fig. S2). For all substrates except for 4-methylthio-2-oxobutanoate (MTOB), plotting of the reaction velocities and the substrate concentration revealed Michaelis–Menten kinetics. Km and Vmax were calculated by fitting the data into non-linear regression (Table 1). Generally higher Km-values were calculated for amino acids in comparison to their cognate 2-oxo acids. All Km-values were in a range found in previous studies of BCATs in Arabidopsis and tomato (Knill et al. CITATION; Maloney et al. CITATION; Schuster and Binder CITATION). Consistent with previous results obtained by yeast complementation assays (Diebold et al. CITATION), BCAT6 converts all BCAAs and their corresponding 2-oxo acids to their respective transamination products. This substrate range clearly differentiates BCAT6 from BCAT4, which lacks substantial activities with Val, Ile and the corresponding 2-oxo acids 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoate (3MOB) and 3-methyl-2-oxopentanoate (3MOP) (Schuster et al. CITATION). The highest affinity of BCAT6 was seen with Ile and its 2-oxo acid, 3-methyl-2-oxopentanoate (3MOP).[[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] In contrast to all other substrates investigated, the reaction velocities measured with MTOB did not exhibit classical Michaelis–Menten kinetics (Supplemental Fig. S2). Here activities increased to a maximum at 8 mM substrate concentration, but further elevation of the MTOB concentration led to a decrease of activity. In any case, both Met and MTOB are substrates of BCAT6 consistent with the generally promiscuous character of branched-chain aminotransferases in plants. To evaluate the biological role of BCAT6 in vivo, we established three T-DNA knockout mutants. Two of these mutants (bcat6-2, FLAG062B04 and bcat6-3, FLAG365E01) were in the Wassilewskija (Ws) nuclear background whereas one T-DNA insertion line (bcat6-1, SALK 119840) was generated in the accession Columbia (Col-0). By PCR analysis and sequencing of the corresponding products, the localization of the T-DNA was confirmed at the end of the second exon (bcat6-1 and bcat6-3) or in intron 2 (bcat6-2). An RT-PCR analysis with oligonucleotides flanking the insertion confirmed the knockout of BCAT6 in these lines (Supplemental Fig. S3). The macroscopic phenotypes of all of these mutants were indistinguishable from wild-type plants (Fig. 2 and Supplemental Fig. S4). For comparability with previous studies of other BCATs from Arabidopsis, which were done in the Col-0 background, we concentrated our studies on the bcat6-1 line. [[FIGURE]]  Profiling of free amino acids in bcat6-1 did not reveal any significant changes from the wild-type control both in leaves (Table 2, Supplemental Table S3) and in seeds (Table 3, Supplemental Table S4), except for Trp, which was slightly increased in the seeds. Since in Arabidopsis BCATs might also have functions in glucosinolate biosynthesis, we also measured these compounds. In leaves, only minor decreases of 7-methylsulfinylheptylglucosinolate (7MSOH) and 8-methylsulfinyloctylglucosinolate (8MSOO) were measured (Supplemental Table S5). In seeds, 4-benzoyloxybutylglucosinolate (4BZO) was slightly decreased, but in contrast to leaves, 7-methylthioheptylglucosinolate (7MTH), 8-methylthiooctylglucosinolate (8MTO) and 8-methylsulfinyloctylglucosinolate were found to be moderately increased (Table 5, Supplemental Table S6). In summary, the moderate changes of C7 and C8 glucosinolate species both in leaves and seeds suggest a participation in or at least an indirect influence of BCAT6 on the Met chain elongation pathway.[[TABLE]] [[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] [[TABLE]] To investigate the effects of the knockout of both cytosolic BCATs, we crossed the bcat6-1 plants with the previously characterized bcat4-2 knockout mutant (Schuster et al. CITATION). Like the single mutants, the macroscopic phenotype of the double knockout (dko) plants was indistinguishable from that of the Col-0 wild type (Fig. 2). On the other hand, a number of differences were seen between the metabolite profile of the bcat4-2/bcat6-1 dko and that of Col wild-type as well as the single mutants. In leaves, Met, Ser, Val and S-methylmethionine (SMM) were increased in the dko (Table 2, Supplemental Table S3). SMM is synthesized from Met and SAM in a Met-SAM-methyltransferase catalyzed reaction. SMM serves a methyl donor for the formation of Met from homocysteine, a reaction catalyzed by homocysteine S-methyltransferase. Met-SAM-methyltransferase and homocysteine S-methyltransferase form the SMM cycle, which controls the Met-SAM balance (Ranocha et al. CITATION). For Met and SMM, elevations could be mainly attributed to the knockout of bcat4-2, although they were stronger in the bcat4-2/bcat6-1 dko (Table 2). On the other hand, the significantly higher levels of Val and Ser in the dko most likely arose from an additive effect of both gene knockouts, since the single mutants exhibited only insignificant increases of these amino acids. In seeds, such an additive effect was seen for Met and Asn (Table 3, Supplemental Table S4). A strikingly different pattern of change was seen for SMM. This storage form of Met was undetectable in the bcat6-1 mutant and in wild type, accumulated to about 0.5 µmol/g seed in bcat4-2, and was found at an amount three times higher in the bcat4-2/bcat6-1 dko (1.54 µmol/g). Cumulative effects on the levels of glucosinolates were seen in the bcat4-2/bcat6-1 dko. In leaves, the total amount of Met-derived glucosinolates was found to be decreased to 43 % of wild-type level mainly due to the reduction of the major leaf glucosinolate species 4-methylsulfinylbutylglucosinolate (4MSOB), which is lowered to 50 % of wild-type level (Table 4, Supplemental Table S5). Both total Met-derived glucosinolates and 4MSOB were reduced to only 53 and 60 % of wild-type, respectively, in the bcat4-2 mutant demonstrating the enhancing effect of the bcat6-1 knockout and also confirming the major role of BCAT4 in the Met elongation pathway (Schuster et al. CITATION).[[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] An intriguing influence on glucosinolate concentrations was also seen in seeds. In the bcat4-2/bcat6-1 dko, the total amount of Met-derived glucosinolates was reduced to approximately 47 % of the wild-type control, which is a further reduction with respect to bcat4-2, where this glucosinolate group was lowered to only 85 % of control (Table 5, Supplemental Table S6). The strong reduction in the dko is linked mainly to a reduction in 4-methylthiobutylglucosinolate (4MTB), the predominant glucosinolate species in seeds, but also to other glucosinolates that show stronger reductions in the dko than in the bcat4-2 single mutant (3-benzoyloxypropylglucosinolate (3BZO), 6-methylsulfinylhexylglucosinolate (6MSOH), 7-methylthioheptylglucosinolate and 8-methylsulfinyloctylglucosinolate). Strikingly, 2-methylsulfinylethylglucosinolate (2MSOE), a glucosinolate species synthesized directly from Met without chain elongation, and 5-methylhexylglucosinolate (5MH), which derives from Val or Leu and not from Met, accumulate in the bcat4-2/bcat6-1 dko. While 2MSOE was not seen in the bcat4-2 single mutant, 5-methylhexylglucosinolate was found at reduced levels also in seeds of such plants (Table 5, Supplemental Table S6).[[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] We also established a triple knockout (tko) mutant, which in addition to bcat6-1 and bcat4-2 contains the bcat3-1 knockout allele (Knill et al. CITATION). These plants (bcat3-1/bcat4-2/bcat6-1) exhibited a clear macroscopic phenotype with smaller rosettes and inflorescences in comparison to wild type. In addition, there were dent-like cavities and chlorotic areas in the leaves (Fig. 2). In this tissue, free amino acid profiling revealed that Ala, Arg, His, Ile, Phe, Pro Thr, Trp and Tyr showed moderately increased levels in comparison to the bcat4-2/bcat6-1 dko or to the bcat4-2 single mutants (Supplemental Table S3). Leu was found to be increased about twofold in the tko, whereas Val was significantly reduced in the triple mutant, which is linked to the knockout of BCAT3 and its role in the biosynthesis of this amino acid (Table 2, Supplemental Table S3) (Knill et al. CITATION). Most striking is the extraordinary enhanced accumulation of Met, which is at 46-fold higher levels than in wild type and about eightfold higher than in the bcat4-2/bcat6-1 dko or in the bcat4-2 plants (Table 2, Supplemental Table S3). Substantial changes were also seen in seeds, where total free amino acids were doubled in comparison to all other lines investigated. The increase affected all amino acids and was found to be particularly strong in comparison to wild type for His (× 14.9), Ile (× 7.8), Thr (× 6.0), Arg (× 5.8) and was accompanied by a massive enrichment of SMM (Table 3, Supplemental Table S4). Clear alterations in glucosinolate levels were observed in the leaves of the tko mutant. The total amount of Met-derived glucosinolates is threefold decreased with the most dramatic reduction seen for the major leaf glucosinolate 4MSOB, which was lowered to 25 % of the wild-type level (Table 4, Supplemental Table S5). In contrast, the levels of Leu-derived glucosinolates were strikingly enhanced with 5-methylhexylglucosinolate being extraordinarily enriched (× 9.8 in comparison to bcat3-1). Likewise, strong effects were measured in seeds. In this tissue, the level of total Met-derived glucosinolates was down to 14 % of the wild-type control, the two major glucosinolate species 4-methylthiobutylglucosinolate and 4-benzoyloxybutylglucosinolate being reduced to 4 and 7 % of wild-type, respectively. Slightly increased or unchanged amounts were detected for 5-methylsulfinylpentylglucosinolate (5MSOP), 5-methylthiopentylglucosinolate (5MTP) and 2MSOE. The opposing trend found in the levels of these glucosinolate species might be due to distinct substrate preferences in reactions of the second and third phase of glucosinolate biosynthesis. In addition, the substrate preference of glucosinolate transporter might influence the levels of individual compound in seeds (Nour-Eldin et al. CITATION). Similar to leaves, 5-methylhexylglucosinolate was almost doubled in comparison to the bcat3-1 and to the bcat4-2/bcat6-1 dko mutants, whereas 4-methylpentylglucosinolate (4MP) was undetectable in this tissue (Table 5, Supplemental Table S6). Collectively these metabolite profiling data revealed that the knockout of BCAT6 in conjunction with the cytosolic BCAT4 and the plastid-located BCAT3 caused a dramatic increase in Met content, coupled with clear reductions in Met-derived glucosinolates both in leaves and seeds. These deviations suggested that BCAT6 contributes to the biosynthesis of Met-derived glucosinolates. Among the branched-chain amino acids only Val was distinctively increased in the dko, while in the tko, Val was present at levels even lower than in wild type (Table 2). Apart from amino acid and glucosinolate profiling we used a LC-ESI-TripleQuad-MS method employing an LC-ESI-IonTrap to search for other compounds that differed among the single, double and triple mutants. In leaves of the bcat4-2 and bcat3-1 single and the dko, and especially in the tko, we detected elongated Leu derivatives. These amino acids were detected in about three to tenfold higher amounts in the tko than in any other line, and trihomoleucine was found in the range of Leu (Table 6). The bcat3-1 mutant also contained considerable amounts of homo-, dihomo- and trihomoleucine, but only trace amounts of trihomoleucine were found in bcat4-2 and in the bcat4-2/bcat6-1 dko. None of these abnormal Leu derivatives was detectable in seeds.[[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] The relative levels of 5′-deoxy-5′-methylthioadenosine (5MTA), an intermediate of the Met recycling pathway (Bürstenbinder et al. CITATION; Miyazaki and Yang CITATION) were highest in the leaves of the bcat4-2 single and the bcat4-2/bcat6-1 dko (Table 6). In seeds, the highest relative amounts of 5MTA were found in the tko, with a 28-fold increase observed relative to wild-type levels. The double mutant also exhibited sevenfold increase, whereas only moderate elevation were found in all single mutants, maximally 3.6-fold in bcat4-2 (Table 7). In contrast, 5MTA is reduced in leaves of the bcat3-1 knockout mutant. Besides 5MTA we also found extremely enhanced levels of 1-amino-5-benzoyloxypentane (5BZO-NH2 could potentially originate from 5-benzoyloxypentylglucosinolate) in seeds of the bcat4-2 (1200-fold increase), the dko (over 4000-fold increase) and the tko (a near 1800-fold increase). Only very moderate increases were found in the bcat6-1 and in the bcat3-1 mutant (Table 7). 5BZO-NH2 was not detected in green tissues.[[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] Considering the potential role of BCAT6 in glucosinolate metabolism we used previously established Arabidopsis lines containing BCAT6-promoter:GUS constructs, to reinvestigate expression of BCAT6 in different developmental stages carrying out histological staining in the presence of 0.05 % Silwet Top for increased sensitivity. Studies of seedlings now revealed promoter activity in the central cylinder throughout the root and the hypocotyl with particularly strong staining in the root tip and at the upper end of the hypocotyl at the basis of the petioles of cotyledons, where promoter activity was previously detected (Supplemental Fig. S5) (Schuster and Binder CITATION). In later developmental stages, staining was now seen at the basis of petioles and in stipules. Consistent with former studies, promoter activity was seen in anthers and root tips, whereas no promoter activity was detected in other parts of the leaves even after wounding. Furthermore no staining was detectable in imbibed seeds (not shown). Taken together BCAT6 promoter activity is restricted to seedling stages and to small regions of the adult plants.
!~MM~!  Arabidopsis thaliana (Arabidopsis) plants were grown as described before (Knill et al. CITATION; Schuster et al. CITATION). Knockout mutants were obtained from the SALK Institute for Biological Studies (bcat6-1, SALK119840) or from the INRA Centre (bcat6-2, FLAG062B04 and bcat6-3, FLAG365E01). Double and triple knockouts were established from previously characterized bcat3-1 (GABI-Kat 002A11) and bcat4-2 (GABI-Kat 163D11) mutants (Knill et al. CITATION; Schuster et al. CITATION) following standard protocols (Weigel and Glazebrook CITATION). Seedlings were also grown on plates with Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 0.5 % (w/v) sucrose. The BCAT6 reading frame was amplified from total oligo(dT)-primed cDNA with the primer pair bcat6UE.H/bcat6UE.R, digested with BamHI/XhoI, and cloned into the corresponding sites of pET32a (Novagen). Overexpression was induced in Escherichia coli strain AD494(DE3)pLysS by the addition of 1 mM IPTG and cells were grown for 4.5 h at 37 °C under constant shaking at 200 rpm. Purification of recombinant BCAT6 protein was done by His-tag affinity chromatography using Ni-NTA Superflow Resin (Qiagen). BCAT6 protein in the enriched fractions was quantified using AIDA Image Analyzer v3.12 (Raytest, Germany) in Coomassie Blue-stained SDS gels. The amount of recombinant BCAT6 in the protein fraction used for activity tests was found to be about 66 %. All enzyme activity and substrate specificity tests were performed with 6.5 µg of protein from a single His-Tag-purified fraction in a total volume of 50 µl for 20 min at 37 °C in the presence of 100 mM Bicine pH 8.3, 100 µM pyridoxal-5-phosphate and 5 mM DTT. Reactions were initiated by adding 1 µl of enzyme preparation corresponding to 4.26 µg recombinant BCAT6 protein. Kinetic studies with Leu, Ile, Val, Met and the corresponding 2-oxo acids were conducted with substrate concentrations between 0.25 and 15.0 mM in the presence 5.0 mM 2-oxoglutarate or 5.0 mM glutamic acid as co-substrates. Reactions were terminated by heat denaturation at 94 °C for 10 min. After precolumn derivatization with o-phthaldialdehyde/2-mercaptoethanol the reaction products were quantified by reversed phase high performance liquid chromatography using a SUPELCOSIL LC-18-DB column (Supelco). For quantifying the deamination of amino acids by BCAT6, the amount of glutamic acid formed in the reaction was measured in the samples. Calculation of Vmax and Km was done using the Origin 7.0 software (OriginLab). Glucosinolates were quantified as described previously (Imhof et al. CITATION; Knill et al. CITATION; Schuster et al. CITATION). Amino acids and other metabolites such as Leu-derivatives, 5′-deoxy-5′-methylthioadenosine (5MTA) and 1-amino-5-benzoyloxypentane (5BZO-NH2) were measured in 10 mg of seeds or 20 mg of freeze-dried leaves. Amino acids were extracted with 1 ml of 80 % (v/v) methanol solution and the resulting extract was diluted in a ratio of 1:10 (v:v) in water containing the 13C, 15N labelled amino acid mix (Isotec, Miamisburg, OH, USA). Amino acids in the diluted extracts were directly analyzed by LC–MS/MS as described before with the modification that an API5000 mass spectrometer (Applied Biosystems) was used and the chromatographic gradient was modified as following: 0–1 min, 3 % B in A; 1–3.8 min, 3–50 % B in A; 3.8–3.9 min, 50–100 % B in A; 3.9–5 min 100 % B, 5.0–5.1 min, 100–3 % B in A, and 5.1–7.5 min 3 % B in A, (A: 0.05 % formic acid in water; B: acetonitrile) (Docimo et al. CITATION). Parameters for the analysis of additional analytes by LC–MS/MS are listed in Supplemental Table S1. Structures of these metabolites were given in Supplemental Figure S1. The BCAT6 reading frame was amplified with the oligonucleotide pair bcat6-EGFP.H/bcat6-EGFP.R and cloned into the SgsI/PacI restriction sites of vector pMDC32 containing 2× CaMV 35S promoter and a NOS terminator. The reading frame of the enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) was amplified using the primer pair EGFP.H/EGFP.R on vector pSAT6-EGFP-N1 as template and cloned into SacI/PacI restriction sites in frame at the C-terminus of the BCAT6 reading frame. The construct was checked by DNA sequencing (LGC Genomics) and transformed into the bcat6-1 mutant following an established protocol (Clough and Bent CITATION). After selection of transformants on MS plates containing 15 µg/ml hygromycin, leaf protoplasts were prepared and inspected as outlined previously (Matthes et al. CITATION). In addition, C- and N-terminal fusions of BCAT6 were cloned in pSAT6—EYFP-C1 or pSAT6—EYFP-N1 vectors (Tzfira et al. CITATION). Protoplast preparation, transformation and inspection were done as described (Matthes et al. CITATION). Fluorescence microscopy was performed with an Axio Observer Z1 microscope equipped with camera system AxioCam MRm (Carl Zeiss AG) and the following filter sets: Zeiss filter sets 46 HE YFP, EX BP 500/25, BS FT 515, EM BP 535/30 and 38 HE eGFP, EX BP 470/40, BS FT 495, EM BP 525/50. Basic methods of molecular biology were performed according to standard protocols (Sambrook and Russell CITATION). Total RNA was extracted from 15 to 20 d-old plants using the Spectrum Plant Total RNA Kit (Sigma-Aldrich). Total cellular DNA was isolated from 10 to 20 d-old plants as described in a previously established protocol (Edwards et al. CITATION). Various pSAT6 vectors were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC, Columbus, OH, USA). DNA sequencing was obtained commercially (LGC Genomics). Histochemical GUS staining was performed according to a protocol described previously modified by the addition of 0.05 % (v/v) Silwet Top (www.agrar.basf.at/). Images were taken using a Bresser Advance ICD 10 – 160 stereo microscope equipped with MikroCamII 3.1 MP digital camera (www.bresser.de). Oligonucleotide sequences are given in Supplemental Table S2.
