!~ABS~! Mitochondria play an important role in maintaining metabolic and energy homeostasis in the cell. In plants, impairment in mitochondrial functions usually has detrimental effects on growth and development. To study genes that are important for plant growth, we have isolated a collection of slow growth (slo) mutants in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). One of the slo mutants, slo3, has a significant reduction in mitochondrial complex I activity. The slo3 mutant has a four-nucleotide deletion in At3g61360 that encodes a pentatricopeptide repeat (PPR) protein. The SLO3 protein contains nine classic PPR domains belonging to the P subfamily. The small deletion in the slo3 mutant changes the reading frame and creates a premature stop codon in the first PPR domain. We demonstrated that the SLO3-GFP is localized to the mitochondrion. Further analysis of mitochondrial RNA metabolism revealed that the slo3 mutant was defective in splicing of NADH dehydrogenase subunit7 (nad7) intron 2. This specific splicing defect led to a dramatic reduction in complex I activity in the mutant as revealed by blue native gel analysis. Complementation of slo3 by 35S:SLO3 or 35S:SLO3-GFP restored the splicing of nad7 intron 2, the complex I activity, and the growth defects of the mutant. Together, these results indicate that the SLO3 PPR protein is a splicing factor of nad7 intron 2 in Arabidopsis mitochondria.
!~RES~! To study genes that are important for plant growth, we isolated several slo mutants from a collection of Arabidopsis transfer DNA (T-DNA) insertion lines (CITATION). One of the slo mutants, slo3, has late germination, retarded growth, and delayed development phenotypes. When grown on tissue culture medium, the root length of slo3 was significantly shorter than that of the wild type (Fig. 1A). The development of true leaves was also significantly delayed in slo3 compared with that of the wild type (Fig. 1A). When grown in soil for 6 weeks, the wild-type Arabidopsis plant was mature and well developed, but the slo3 mutant was just about to bolt, and most of the rosette leaves were curly (Fig. 1B). A mature slo3 mutant plant could grow to about two-thirds of the height of the wild type, and did not display obvious defects in flowers or siliques. However, the seeds of the slo3 mutant were darker and shrunken compared with those of the wild type (Fig. 1, C and D). [[FIGURE]] We used the ethynyl deoxyuridine (EdU)-based proliferation assay to compare cell division in roots of 7-d-old wild-type and slo3 seedlings. The modified nucleoside EdU is incorporated during DNA synthesis, which provides a rapid and robust assay for detection of cell proliferation in plant tissues (CITATION). During the period (30 min) of EdU labeling, the primary root of the wild type has a lot more newly synthesized DNA than that of slo3 (Fig. 2). DNA synthesis mainly occurred in the cell division zone close to the root tip. The EdU assay revealed that the primary root of slo3 had fewer proliferating cells, which would result in a slow growth phenotype of the mutant. [[FIGURE]] Genetic analysis of the slo3 mutant indicated that slo3 was a recessive mutant, but its phenotype did not cosegregate with the T-DNA insertion. We thus made a cross between the slo3 mutant (Columbia-0 [Col-0] background) and Landsberg erecta (Ler), and used map-based cloning to identify the molecular lesion of slo3. Simple sequence length polymorphism (SSLP) analysis of F2 mutant plants allowed us to assign the slo3 mutation to the vicinity of SSLP marker nga6 on the bottom arm of chromosome 3 (Fig. 3A). To facilitate the identification of the SLO3 gene, we sequenced the whole genome of slo3 and compared it with that of the reference genome. On the bottom arm of chromosome 3, we found a four-nucleotide deletion in the coding region of At3g61360 in the slo3 mutant. The deletion would change the reading frame of At3g61360 after the 119th amino acid residue and produced a stop codon at the position of the 124th residue in the slo3 mutant (Fig. 3B). Reverse transcription (RT)-PCR analysis revealed that steady-state levels of slo3 mutant transcripts were comparable with those of the wild type (Supplemental Fig. S1). Thus, the four-nucleotide deletion does not significantly affect the stability of the slo3 mutant transcripts. The SLO3 (At3g61360) gene encodes a PPR protein of 498 amino acid residues (Fig. 3C). The SLO3 PPR protein, a member of the P subfamily, contains nine PPR domains and a putative presequence for mitochondrion targeting. The premature stop codon derived from the slo3 mutant transcripts is located in the first PPR domain (Fig. 3C). A protein BLAST search revealed that SLO3 homologs were found in angiosperms, but not in gymnosperms or nonvascular plants (data not shown). Alignment of SLO3 homologs from Arabidopsis, Populus trichocarpa, Solanum lycopersicum, Glycine max, rice (Oryza sativa), Sorghum bicolor, and maize (Zea mays) revealed that these proteins were highly conserved between dicotyledon and monocotyledon plants (Supplemental Fig. S2). [[FIGURE]] To further prove that the slo3 allele is responsible for the mutant phenotypes, we constructed plant expression vectors harboring 35S:SLO3 or 35S:SLO3-GFP cDNAs. The constructs were transformed into slo3 plants to test if they could rescue the mutant phenotypes. When we screened T1 seeds from both transgenic events on selective medium, successful transformants had a growth phenotype similar to that of the wild type, indicating that 35S:SLO3 and 35S:SLO3-GFP were able to rescue the slo3 mutant. Both 35S:SLO3 and 35S:SLO3-GFP complementation lines were carried to T3 homozygosity and used for further analysis. A representative complementation line, slo3 complemented by 35S:SLO3, is shown in Figure 3D. Similarly, the 35:SLO3-GFP transgene was able to restore the growth phenotype of slo3 to that of the wild type (Fig. 4A). Together, these results confirmed that the slo3 mutant is caused by a loss-of-function mutation in the At3g61360 gene. [[FIGURE]] The SLO3 PPR contains an amino-terminal sequence to target the protein to mitochondria according to SUBAcon (http://suba3.plantenergy.uwa.edu.au/suba-app/flatfile.html?id=AT3G61360.1), which integrates multiple software predictions (CITATION). The phenotypes of slo3 also implicated that the SLO3 PPR could be localized to the mitochondrion. We showed that the 35:SLO3-GFP construct was able to complement the slo3 mutant (Fig. 4A), indicating that the SLO3-GFP fusion protein is functional in planta. Confocal microscopy was used to observe the GFP fluorescent signals in the roots of these complemented plants. MitoTracker orange was used to stain the roots as a control for mitochondrial localization. In the root hair of a 35:SLO3-GFP-complemented line, the green fluorescent signals colocalized with the MitoTracker orange fluorescent signals (Fig. 4B). Similar results were observed in root epidermal cells (Supplemental Fig. S3). Although the TargetP program (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/) predicts that the SLO3 PPR protein is localized to the chloroplast or mitochondrion, we could not observe the green fluorescent signals of the SLO3-GFP in the chloroplast (Supplemental Fig. S3). These results suggest that the SLO3-GFP fusion protein is localized to the mitochondrion, and SUBAcon is more accurate in the prediction of SLO3 subcellular localization. It is well known that many plant PPR proteins are involved in chloroplast or mitochondrial RNA metabolism (CITATION). The phenotypes of the slo3 mutant and the subcellular localization of the SLO3-GFP imply that the SLO3 PPR protein may play a role in mitochondrial RNA metabolism. To test this hypothesis, we designed experiments to examine mitochondrial RNA editing, splicing, and the abundance of mitochondrial transcripts in the slo3 mutant. We used RT-PCR and bulk sequencing of the amplified cDNAs to compare the editing efficiencies of mitochondrial transcripts in slo3 and the wild type. Of the more than 500 mitochondrial RNA editing sites examined (CITATION), we did not observe any significant difference between slo3 and the wild type (data not shown). For RNA splicing analysis, we used quantitative RT-PCR assays to examine the ratio of spliced to unspliced RNA for each mitochondrial intron in wild-type, slo3, and 35S:SLO3-GFP-complemented plants. Of the 23 introns examined, the splicing efficiency of nad7 intron 2 was dramatically decreased in the slo3 mutant, which was restored in the complemented plants (Fig. 5A). The quantitative RT-PCR results also revealed that the reduced slo3/wild-type ratio for nad7 intron 2 splicing was due to both an increase in unspliced and a decrease in spliced nad7 transcripts in the slo3 mutant (Supplemental Fig. S4). Compared with those of the wild type, the splicing efficiencies of the other introns were not significantly affected in the slo3 mutant (Fig. 5A). [[FIGURE]] We also used quantitative RT-PCR assays to compare the abundance of mitochondrial transcripts in wild-type, slo3, and 35S:SLO3-GFP-complemented plants. Separate primer sets designed to detect different transcription units of the trans splicing genes (e.g. nad1, nad2, and nad5) were included in the analysis. These assays covered 33 protein-coding and 2 ribosomal RNA (rRNA) genes of the Arabidopsis mitochondrial genome. We did not detect significant transcript reduction in any of the mitochondrial genes examined that could potentially lead to reduced activities of respiratory complexes or other mitochondrial functions (Fig. 5B). By contrast, significant increases in the accumulation of several mitochondrial transcripts were observed in the slo3 mutant as compared with wild-type or complemented plants (Fig. 5B). It is likely that these are secondary effects caused by the loss of nad7 intron 2 splicing in slo3. The Arabidopsis nad7 gene contains four introns, and the length of intron 2 is 1,063 bp. RT-PCR analysis with primers that would amplify the 1,185-bp full-length nad7 cDNA in the wild type revealed that the majority of nad7 transcripts in the slo3 mutant were about 2.2 kb (Fig. 6A). Sequencing analysis confirmed that the 2.2-kb products were the unspliced form of the nad7 transcript retaining the entire intron 2 (Fig. 6B). By contrast, fully processed nad7 transcripts were the predominant forms present in wild-type and complemented plants (Fig. 6, A and B). These results further confirmed that the splicing of nad7 intron 2 was severely impaired in the slo3 mutant. Sequencing analysis of these RT-PCR products also allowed us to compare the editing status of fully processed and intron 2-containing nad7 transcripts in the wild type and slo3, respectively. The editing of all sites located in the exons of nad7 was not affected in the slo3 mutant (Fig. 6B; data not shown). It has been shown that RNA editing in trans-introns is involved in the splicing reaction in wheat (Triticum aestivum) mitochondria (CITATION). Interestingly, Arabidopsis nad7 intron 2 contains an editing site near the junction of intron 2-exon 3. Although the nad7 intron 2 is not a trans-intron, it is still of interest to know if the status of this particular editing site is affected in the slo3 mutant. We used RT-PCR to amplify the intron 2-containing nad7 transcripts in the wild type with primers located in exon 2 and exon 3 (Supplemental Fig. S5). Bulk sequencing analysis of these unspliced transcripts revealed that the C-to-U editing of the nad7 intron 2 editing site was not affected in the slo3 mutant (Supplemental Fig. S5). Thus, the lack of nad7 intron 2 splicing was not due to the absence of an RNA editing factor rather than a splicing factor in the slo3 mutant. [[FIGURE]] In addition to nad7, we used similar RT-PCR assays with primers designed to detect fully processed or full-length transcripts of other mitochondrial nad genes. The results indicated that the expression of nad1, nad2, nad3, nad4, nad4L, nad5, nad6, and nad9 was not affected in the slo3 mutant (Fig. 6C). Taken together, these results suggest that the slo3 mutant has a specific defect in the splicing of nad7 intron 2. It has been proposed that PPR proteins may recognize RNA sequences via a one PPR motif-one nucleotide module, and the amino acids at particular positions (6 and 1′) in each repeat determine the nucleotide-binding specificity (CITATION). We used bioinformatics predictions (https://www.cs.colostate.edu/∼approve/) based on a combinatorial amino acid code for RNA recognition by PPR proteins (CITATION) to predict the SLO3 PPR binding sites in nad7 intron 2. We have identified four candidate RNA sequences that SLO3 PPR may bind in nad7 intron 2 (Fig. 7A). Interestingly, three of the four candidate sites are located in the vicinity of intron-exon junctions (Fig. 7B). Further experiments are required to test if the SLO3 PPR protein can really bind to these candidate sequences. [[FIGURE]] Nad7 is a subunit of the mitochondrial electron transport chain complex I (NADH dehydrogenase). The splicing defect in nad7 may directly affect the activity of complex I in the slo3 mutant. We used blue native (BN) PAGE (BN-PAGE) and in-gel activity staining to examine the activity of complex I in wild-type, slo3, and 35S:SLO3-GFP-complemented plants. Compared with that of the wild type, the activity of complex I was significantly reduced in the slo3 mutant (Fig. 8). In complemented plants, the complex I activity was restored to levels similar to those of the wild type (Fig. 8). These results further confirmed that the primary defect in nad7 intron 2 splicing would result in dysfunctional mitochondria in the slo3 mutant. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) ecotype Col-0, slo3 mutant, and 35S:SLO3 or 35S:SLO3-GFP transgenic plants were grown on one-half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) plates (MS salts [Sigma-Aldrich], pH adjusted to 5.7 with 1 N KOH, 0.8% [w/v] agar) containing 2% (w/v) Suc or in the soil in the growth chamber on a 16-h-light/8-h-dark cycle at 23°C. We isolated a collection of slo mutants from T-DNA insertion lines of the Col-0 genotype (CITATION). Genetic analysis revealed that the slo3 mutant was not linked to T-DNA insertion. We generated an F2 population derived from a cross between the slo3 mutant and Ler. F2 seedlings were grown on one-half-strength MS + 2% (w/v) Suc medium and scored for slow root growth. Genomic DNA was isolated from individual F2 plants showing the mutant phenotype. SSLP markers described in the Monsanto Col-0 and Ler polymorphism database (http://www.arabidopsis.org/Cereon) were used to map the slo3 mutation to the bottom arm of chromosome 3. Genomic DNA extracted from slo3 mutant seedlings was sent to Yourgene Bioscience (www.yourgene.com.tw/) for whole-genome sequencing. DNA libraries were prepared from 5 μg of genomic DNA using a TruSeq DNA Sample Preparation Kit (Illumina) according to the manufacturer’s instruction. Ten nanomolar DNA libraries mixed with denaturation solution and hybridization buffer was loaded onto an Illumina HiSEquation 2000 flowcell, and run for 100 cycles using the paired-end module. Data were processed using the Illumina CASAVA pipeline (version 1.8) to convert the results to FASTQ files. Illumina HiSEquation 2000 reads from slo3 were mapped against the The Arabidopsis Information Resource 10 reference genome using the Maq short-read mapping software with default settings for paired-end analysis (CITATION). The sequences corresponding to the bottom arm of chromosome 3 were checked visually using the Integrative Genomics Viewer (https://www.broadinstitute.org/igv/; CITATION). Roots of 7-d-old Arabidopsis wild-type and slo3 intact seedlings were submerged into 10 μm EdU (Invitrogen, Click-iT EdU Imaging Kit, C10337) in one-half-strength MS plus 2% (w/v) Suc liquid medium, and placed in the 23°C growth chamber for 30 min. Tissue fixation, permeabilization, and EdU detection were performed according to the manufacturer’s experimental protocols. The EdU-labeled roots were observed under confocal laser scanning microscope 510 META Zeiss. Total RNA was isolated from 2-week-old Arabidopsis seedlings as described previously (CITATION). The RNA was treated with DNaseI prior to use in the assays. For RT-PCR analysis of SLO3 and Elongation Factor 1α, the first strand of cDNA was synthesized using SuperScriptIII (Invitrogen) and oligo-deoxythymine according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The following primers were used for PCR: SLO3, 5′-AATGGTCATCCATTCCCAAA-3′ and 5′-CGTGCGAGAATGTGAAGTGT-3′; and Elongation Factor 1α, 5′-GTTTCACATCAACATTGTGGTCATTGG-3′ and 5′-GAGTACTTGGGGGTAGTGGCATCC-3′. For analysis of mitochondrial RNA editing, we used RT-PCR and bulk sequencing of the amplified cDNAs as described previously (CITATION). To examine the editing site located in nad7 intron 2, we used RT-PCR with primers 5′-GAGGGACTGAGAAATTAATAGAGTACA-3′ and 5′-TGGTACCTCGCAATTCAAAA-3′ located in nad7 exon 2 and exon 3, respectively, to amplify wild-type and slo3 cDNAs. In the wild type, the amplified RT-PCR products including cDNAs with and without intron 2 were separated by agarose gel electrophoresis. The band corresponding to intron 2-containing cDNAs was sliced out from gels. These intron 2-containing cDNAs were purified with an Illustra GFX PCR DNA and gel band purification kit (GE Healthcare Life Sciences) and subjected to sequencing analysis. To quantify the splicing of mitochondrial mRNAs, quantitative RT-PCR was performed using specific primers designed for intron-exon regions (unspliced forms) and exon-exon regions (spliced forms) of each gene (CITATION; CITATION). The sequences of the primers used for quantitative RT-PCR analysis of mitochondrial intron splicing are listed in Supplemental Table S1. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis of mitochondrial mRNAs and rRNAs was performed as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). The sequences of the primers used for quantitative RT-PCR analysis of mitochondrial genes are listed in Supplemental Table S2. All of the quantifications were normalized to the nuclear gene ACT2. The quantitative RT-PCRs were performed in triplicate for each sample in three independent experiments. For RT-PCR analysis of mitochondrial nad transcripts, the first strand of cDNA was synthesized using SuperScriptIII (Invitrogen) and random hexamer primers as described previously (CITATION). The sequences of the primers used are listed in Supplemental Table S3. For scanning electron microscopy, Arabidopsis seeds of the wild type and slo3 were dried with Hitachi HCP-2 critical point dryer. After coating with Hitachi E-1010 ion sputter, the samples were observed under an FEI Quanta 200 scanning electron microscope at 20 kV. RT-PCR with a forward primer 5′-CACCATGCTTCAGAAGATCTCCTC-3′ and two different reverse primers, 5′-CTACATTAGCTGTATTTCAG-3′ and 5′-CATTAGCTGTATTTCAGGAG-3′, was used to generate full-length SLO3 cDNAs with and without a stop codon, respectively. The PCR products were cloned into a Gateway pENTR/D-TOPO vector (Invitrogen) and verified by sequencing. To generate a 35S:SLO3 construct, the full-length SLO3 cDNA with a stop codon was introduced into a Gateway destination vector pGWB502Ω. The full-length SLO3 cDNA without a stop codon was used to generate a SLO3-GFP fusion construct in a Gateway destination vector pGWB505. The resulting constructs containing the hygromycin selectable marker were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 and were introduced into Arabidopsis slo3 mutant by floral dip. In both events, T1 plants that were resistant to hygromycin had an appearance similar to that of the wild type, indicating that the transformed 35S:SLO3 and 35S:SLO3-GFP cDNAs were able to complement the slo3 mutant. Several independent 35S:SLO3 and 35S:SLO3-GFP complementation lines were grown to T3 homozygosity for further analysis. The 35S:SLO3-GFP construct was transformed into Arabidopsis wild-type plants by floral dip. Several independent 35S:SLO3-GFP transgenic lines were carried to T3 homozygosity. Roots from these stable transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing the SLO3-GFP fusion protein were stained with MitoTracker orange (Molecular Probes) and observed under confocal laser scanning microscope 510 META Zeiss. Eight-day-old Arabidopsis seedlings were used for preparation of crude Arabidopsis membrane extracts and analysis of mitochondria complex I activity according to CITATION. Twenty micrograms of total proteins from crude membrane extracts was loaded in each lane and separated by BN-PAGE (Invitrogen, BN1002BOX). The gels were stained by Coomassie Blue R-250 (Sigma) or subjected to an in-gel complex I activity assay. To detect the activity of NADH dehydrogenase, the gel was immersed in a staining buffer (0.2 mm NADH, 1 mm nitroblue tetrazolium, 50 mm MOPS, adjusted to pH 7.6 with KOH) for 20 min at room temperature. The staining solution was replaced by a fixation solution (30% [v/v] methanol, 10% [v/v] acetic acid]) to stop the reaction. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers NM_116000, ERP64851, XP_004237781, XP_003554843, XP_002282912, XP_002438925, AFW69255, and NP_001058444. The following supplemental materials are available. Supplemental Figure S1. RT-PCR analysis of Arabidopsis SLO3 transcripts in wild-type, slo3, and complemented plants. Supplemental Figure S2. Alignment of SLO3 proteins from different plants. Supplemental Figure S3. Subcellular localization of SLO3-GFP in 35S:SLO3-GFP-complemented plants. Supplemental Figure S4. Quantitative RT-PCR of spliced and unspliced nad7 transcripts in slo3. Supplemental Figure S5. Analysis of RNA editing in nad7 intron 2. Supplemental Table S1. Primers used for quantitative RT-PCR analysis of mitochondrial intron splicing. Supplemental Table S2. Primers used for quantitative RT-PCR analysis of mitochondrial genes. Supplemental Table S3. Primers used for RT-PCR analysis of nad transcripts in Arabidopsis mitochondria.
