!~ABS~!  
!~RES~! The involvement of bZIP17 and S1P in salt stress responses in Arabidopsis has been reported previously (Liu et al., CITATION). Many of the bZIP17/S1P downstream genes identified through microarray analysis (Liu et al., CITATION) have been also reported to be up‐regulated by ABA, which led us to investigate the function of S2P in the ABA response in Arabidopsis. It is well known that both ABA content and ABA signaling are essential for the regulation of the transition from seed dormancy to seed germination (Holdsworth et al., CITATION). The germination capability of two S2P knockout lines (s2p‐2 and s2p‐3) in the absence and presence of ABA was checked first. It was found that the S2P null mutants germinated at a similar rate to the wt plants on normal half‐strength MS growth medium; however, when ABA was included in the growth medium, the S2P null mutants germinated much more slowly than the wt plants (Fig. 1a–c). The percentage of cotyledon greening was also lower in the S2P mutants than in the wt (Fig. 1d). The ABA‐sensitive phenotype of s2p‐2 was also confirmed in a dose‐dependent experiment considering a range of 0.9–2.1 μM ABA, and in a time‐course experiment (Fig. 1e–g). When the coding sequence of S2P was expressed in the s2p‐2 background driven by the 35S promoter, the ABA‐sensitive phenotype of the s2p‐2 mutant was rescued (Fig. 2a–e). Thus, S2P is a negative regulator of ABA signaling during seed germination in Arabidopsis.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] It is known that bZIP17 and bZIP28 are substrates of S2P in Arabidopsis during salt and ER stress responses (Liu et al., CITATION,b; Gao et al., CITATION; Che et al., CITATION); however, neither single null mutants of bZIP17 (zip17) nor those of bZIP28 (zip28) were sensitive to ABA during germination (Fig. 3a–d). To generate the bZIP17 and bZIP28 double mutant, zip17 (SALK_104326) and zip28 (SALK_132285) were crossed. Self‐crossing of the zip17zip28/+ plants or the zip17/+zip28 plants did not result in a zip17zip28 genotype in the progeny, indicating that knockouts of both bZIP17 and bZIP28 are synthetic lethal in Arabidopsis. In order to know whether constitutively active forms of bZIP17 and/or bZIP28 lacking the transmembrane domains and ER lumen‐facing C‐termini could restore the ABA sensitivity of S2P null mutant to the wt level, the truncated form of bZIP17 and bZIP28 (namely, bZIP17ΔC and bZIP28ΔC) with their respective native promoter was expressed in the s2p‐2 background. It was found that bZIP17ΔC expression fully restored the ABA sensitivity of s2p‐2 mutant to the wt level, while bZIP28ΔC expression did not (Fig. 4a–h). We conclude that bZIP17 possibly is involved in the ABA response during seed germination and is most probably one of the S2P targets in Arabidopsis imbibed seeds.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] An N‐terminal GFP‐ or MYC‐tagged form of bZIP17 was processed and translocated from the ER to the nucleus in response to salt stress or heat stress (Liu et al., CITATION; Che et al., CITATION). We were interested to know whether bZIP17 is also activated by ABA treatment. An MYC‐tagged form of bZIP17 was transiently expressed in tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) leaves, which were then subjected to ABA treatment. Western blotting analyses demonstrated that ABA treatment up‐regulated the level of the MYC‐bZIP17 processed form (Fig. 5a,b). In order to examine the subcellular localization of bZIP17 and also to know whether the ER lumen‐facing domain and the transmembrane domain of bZIP17 are sufficient for the possible ER‐to‐nucleus translocation, we replaced the N‐terminus of bZIP17 (amino acids 1‐345) with GFP‐MYC, and the fusion protein (GFP‐MYC‐MbZIP17; Fig. 5a) was transiently expressed in tobacco epidermal cells, as we did for bZIP28 (Sun et al., CITATION). As predicted, GFP‐MYC‐MbZIP17 was observed as ER‐like cytoplasmic strands without ABA treatment and colocalized with an ER marker (CD3‐959, 35S‐ER‐mCherry) (Fig. 5c). Following ABA treatment, much of the GFP fluorescent signal was observed in the nuclei and colocalized with a nuclear marker (Fig. 5d). These results demonstrate that bZIP17 is activated and relocates from the ER to the nucleus in response to ABA treatment.  [[FIGURE]] Five genes participating in ABA‐mediated responses, encoding the phosphatase type 2C family protein HAI1, the homeobox‐leucine zipper protein ATHB7, the NAC transcription factor ANAC019/RD26, the calcium‐binding EF hand protein RD20, and the lipid transfer protein LTP3, have been previously identified as downstream targets of bZIP17 under salt stress (Liu et al., CITATION). We conducted RT‐qPCR to compare the expression level of these genes in wt and s2p‐2 mutant backgrounds, with or without ABA treatment during seed germination. Eight HAI1‐related PP2Cs (ABI1, ABI2, HAB1, HAB2, HAI2, HAI3, AHG1 and AHG3) (Antoni et al., CITATION) and one ATHB7‐related homeobox‐leucine zipper gene (ATHB12) were also included in the study. Among the 14 genes investigated, 10 (ABI2, HAB1, HAB2, HAI1, HAI2, HAI3, AHG1, AHG3, ATHB7 and LTP3) were induced more than twofold by ABA treatment while the expression of RD20 was below the detection limit in the wt (Fig. 6). In contrast to the wt, the up‐regulation of five genes (HAB1, HAB2, HAI1, AHG3 and ATHB7) by ABA treatment was greatly impaired in the s2p‐2 mutant (Fig. 6). The s2p‐2 mutant is expected to be less sensitive to ABA than the ahg3 mutant because the ABA‐induced expression of AHG3 is not abolished in the s2p‐2 mutant (Fig. 6). Our previous experiments have demonstrated that HAB1, HAB2 and AHG3 are downstream targets of ATHB7 (Valdés et al., CITATION). Similar CHIP‐qPCR experiments were performed to check whether HAI1, HAI2 and AHG1 are also downstream targets of ATHB7. It was found that ATHB7‐YFP was enriched in the promoters of HAI1 and HAI2, but not AHG1 (Fig. 7). The expression of HAI2 was not much affected in the s2p‐2 mutant, suggesting that other transcription factors may also control HAI2 expression during seed germination. Thus, S2P regulates ABA response through controlling the expression of ATHB7 and its target genes, HAB1, HAB2, HAI1 and AHG3.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! All Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh.) wild‐type (wt) T‐DNA mutants and transgenic plants in the current study were in the Columbia (Col‐0) ecotype background. The S2P T‐DNA mutants were kind gifts from Prof. Nozomu Koizumi (Iwata et al., CITATION). Arabidopsis plants were grown as described previously (Liu & Howell, CITATION). For seed germination tests, seeds were collected at the same time and compared within each experiment. Briefly, seeds were washed and plated on half‐strength MS medium (1.2% sucrose, 0.75% agar) without or with different concentrations of ABA (Sigma) as noted in the text. Radicle emergence was counted at the indicated time points, and the percentage of cotyledon greening was also scored at each specific time point. The cotyledon greening ratio was defined as the number of germinated seeds with green cotyledons divided by the total number of tested seeds. For each germination test, 60 seeds per genotype were observed and averaged for each of the three experimental replicates. Photographs were taken at the time as indicated. For chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) experiments, 8‐d‐old seedlings grown under 18 : 6 h photoperiod and 20°C in half‐strength MS medium (without sucrose) were transferred either to fresh half‐strength MS medium or to media supplemented with 50 μM ABA (Sigma) during 1 or 4 h. Two‐way ANOVA or Student's t‐test analyses were performed to check for statistical significance among phenotypic comparisons to the wt.  The coding sequence (CDS) of S2P (AT4G20310) (Genebank accession number KR054754, Supporting Information Fig. S1) was PCR‐amplified using Arabidopsis cDNA as a template and inserted into a modified pCAMBIA1300 vector after digestion with KpnI and BamHI to produce the vector Pro35S:S2P. The expression vector ProbZIP28:bZIP28▵C (LD5) was prepared as previously described (Sun et al., CITATION). The promoter sequence of bZIP17 (Liu et al., CITATION) was amplified and inserted into pCAMBIA1300 at HindIII and PstI sites. The truncated form of bZIP17 was cut from the RD29A:bZIP17▵C vector (Liu et al., CITATION) with PstI and BamHI, and transferred into the pCAMBIA1300 vector containing the bZIP17 promoter to create the expression vector ProbZIP17:bZIP17▵C. For protein subcellular localization, a similar method was used for 35S:GFP‐MYC‐MbZIP17 as for 35S:GFP‐MYC‐MbZIP28 (MLD1) (Sun et al., CITATION). Error‐free clones were introduced into plants by either transient expression or stable transformation. All the primers are listed in Table S1.  Subcellular localization of GFP‐MYC‐MbZIP17 was investigated with laser confocal fluorescence microscopy (Zeiss LSM A710) in tobacco epidermal cells. At 2–3 d after Agrobacterium infiltration with the plasmid DNA, dissected leaves were incubated without or with ABA (100 μM) for 4 h before observation. CD3‐959 (35S‐ER‐mCherry) was used as an ER marker (Nelson et al., CITATION). For western blotting, MYC‐bZIP17 was transiently expressed in tobacco leaves. At 2 d after infiltration, tobacco leaves were subjected to 150 μM ABA or water (negative control) for 6 h. Total proteins were extracted with sodium dodecyl sulfate buffer and subjected to western blotting with anti‐MYC antibody (Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Santa Cruz, CA, USA).  For gene expression analyses, seeds were washed and plated on half‐strength MS medium without or with 10 μM ABA (Sigma) (Ghelis et al., CITATION). After 36 h at 4°C, the plates were kept in the growth chamber at 22°C for another 36 h. Total RNA was extracted from seeds (extraction buffer: 0.1 M Tris HCl, pH 8.0, 0.05 M EDTA, pH 8.0, 2% (w/v) hexadecyltrimethylammonium bromide, 2% (w/v) polyvinylpyrrolidone, 2 M NaCl, 3% β‐mercaptoethanol (v/v)) followed by precipitation with NaAc and cold ethanol (Liu et al., CITATION). ChIP was performed as previously described (Valdés et al., CITATION). Briefly, plant material (8‐d‐old seedlings) was crosslinked with formaldehyde at 1%, and nuclei were extracted. After lysis of the nuclei, DNA was sheared by sonication and later precleared by incubation with protein A‐agarose beads (Santa Cruz Biotechnology). A sample fraction corresponding to 15% of total chromatin was kept as input to act as a positive control for the presence of chromatin. The samples were immunoprecipitated with a normal rabbit IgG antibody (Upstate, Millipore, Billerica, MA, USA) as a negative control, or with a specific green fluorescent protein (GFP) antibody (Santa Cruz Biotechnology). After elution, DNA–protein complexes were treated with RNAse A and reverse crosslinked. Proteinase K was used for protein degradation and DNA was phenol‐purified and resuspended for quantitative PCR, of which conditions were 95°C for 3 min; 40 cycles of 95°C for 10 s, 57°C for 15 s, and 72°C for 10 s, followed by a melting curve analysis. The negative binding control region of ABI1 and the 1 kb upstream promoter region of HAI1, HAI2 and AHG1 genes were probed against the inmunoprecipitated DNA. Data normalization was carried out relative to negative control sequences (Haring et al., CITATION) using the mean value of their absolute signal as a threshold, and the fold enrichment of positive regions was calculated by dividing their absolute signals by the mean signal of negative regions. ChIP data were analyzed for differences between fold enrichment values for negative and positive binding by Student t‐test of independent samples. At least three independent biological replicates were used. Quantitative and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qPCR and RT‐PCR, respectively) were routinely conducted (Liu & Howell, CITATION). Primers are listed in Table S1. 
