!~ABS~! Despite the fact that a variety of nuclear-encoded RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) are targeted to the chloroplast and play essential roles during post-transcriptional RNA metabolism in the chloroplast, the physiological roles of the majority of chloroplast-targeted RBPs remain elusive. Here, we investigated the functional role of a nuclear-encoded S1 domain-containing RBP, designated SDP, in the growth and development of Arabidopsis thaliana. Confocal analysis of the SDP-green fluorescent protein revealed that SDP was localized to the chloroplast. The loss-of-function sdp mutant displayed retarded seed germination and pale-green phenotypes, and grew smaller than the wild-type plants. Chlorophyll a content and photosynthetic activity of the sdp mutant were much lower than those of wild-type plants, and the structures of the chloroplast and the prolamellar body were abnormal in the sdp mutant. The processing of rRNAs in the chloroplast was defective in the sdp mutant, and SDP was able to bind chloroplast 23S, 16S, 5S and 4.5S rRNAs. Notably, SDP possesses RNA chaperone activity. Transcript levels of the nuclear genes involved in chlorophyll biosynthesis were altered in the sdp mutant. Collectively, these results suggest that chloroplast-targeted SDP harboring RNA chaperone activity affects rRNA processing, chloroplast biogenesis and photosynthetic activity, which is crucial for normal growth of Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! The SDP protein contained one S1 domain at the C-terminal region, and a web-based ChloroP1.1 program (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/ChloroP) predicted a transit peptide at the N terminus of the SDP protein (Figure 1a). The Arabidopsis genome harbored a single gene encoding the SDP protein. Analysis of amino acid sequences of SDP-related proteins from diverse plant species showed that Arabidopsis SDP shared approximately 50–80% amino acid sequence similarity to the related proteins from different plant species (Figure S1). To investigate the SDP expression pattern in Arabidopsis, the SDP promoter was fused in front of the GUS gene, the PROSDP::GUS construct was introduced into Arabidopsis and GUS expression was examined in the transgenic plants. The results showed that strong GUS signals were detected in the root, young leaf and mature leaf, but that weak GUS signals were detected in the flower and at the ends of the silique (Figure 1b). To determine the subcellular localization of the SDP protein, the SDP-green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein was expressed in Arabidopsis, and the presence of GFP signals was detected via confocal microscopy. GFP signals were detected only in the chloroplast (Figure 1c), indicating that the nuclear-encoded SDP proteins were localized to chloroplasts. [[FIGURE]] To determine the functional role of SDP in plant growth and development, a loss-of-function sdp mutant (SALK_032069) in which T-DNA is inserted at the C-terminal region (Figure 1a) was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resources Center, and lack of SDP expression in the mutant was confirmed by RT-PCR analysis (Figure S2). The germination of sdp mutant seeds was marginally retarded compared with that of wild-type seeds (Figure 2a), and root growth of the sdp mutant was slightly inhibited compared with that of wild-type plants (Figure 2b). When the plants were grown under normal conditions, it was evident that the sdp mutant had pale-green leaves (Figure 2c), and that the height of the sdp mutant at maturity was significantly shorter than that of wild-type plants (Figure 2d,e). No differences were detected in the size and shape of seeds or the size of siliques between the mutant and wild-type plants, but total seed weight per sdp mutant plant was significantly lower than that of the wild-type plant (Figure S3). To further confirm that the sdp mutant phenotypes resulted from SDP gene knock-out, several complementation lines in which the SDP gene is expressed under the control of the 35S promoter in the sdp mutant background were generated, and their phenotypes were analyzed. Expression of SDP in the complementation lines was verified by RT-PCR analysis (Figure S2). The results showed that seed germination, root growth and seedling growth of the complementation lines recovered to those of wild-type plants (Figure 2). In addition, transgenic Arabidopsis plants that overexpressed SDP under the control of the 35S promoter were generated (Figure S2), and their phenotypes were analyzed. The results showed that seed germination and growth of the SDP-overexpressing transgenic plants were indistinguishable from those of wild-type plants (Figure S4). Taken together, these results indicate that SDP is crucial for the normal growth of Arabidopsis. [[FIGURE]] Because the sdp mutant showed pale-green and growth-retarded phenotypes, we investigated whether SDP affects chlorophyll biosynthesis, photosynthetic activity and chloroplast biogenesis. When the growth defect in the sdp mutant was clearly visible (Figure 3a), the chlorophyll content and photosynthetic activity of the plants were measured. The results showed that the level of chlorophyll a was much lower in the sdp mutant than in the wild type (Figure 3b). Photosynthetic activity, as indicated by the maximum quantum yield of photosytem II (Fv/Fm) values, was significantly different in that the wild-type plants maintained approximately 0.85 Fv/Fm value, whereas the sdp mutant had only 0.4 Fv/Fm value (Figure 3c). The chlorophyll content and photosynthetic activities of the complementation lines recovered to those of wild-type plants (Figure 3). These results indicate that SDP affects chlorophyll a accumulation and photosynthetic activity. To further confirm that SDP plays an important role in photosynthesis, the growth of the sdp mutant was observed on MS medium with and without sucrose. The wild-type plants had true green leaves but the sdp mutant did not develop true green leaves on MS medium without sucrose (Figure 3d). When the yellowish sdp mutant seedlings grown on MS medium without sucrose were transferred to MS medium supplemented with sucrose, the sdp mutant developed true green leaves, whereas the sdp mutant grown on MS medium without sucrose did not develop true leaves (Figure 3d). Notably, structures of the chloroplast and prolamella body in the sdp mutant were abnormal in that the sdp mutants had fewer stacked thylakoids and exhibited a disturbed thylakoid membrane organization and a reduced size of prolamella body, whereas the complementation lines maintained normal chloroplast and prolamella body structures (Figure 3e,f). Collectively, these results demonstrate that SDP affects chlorophyll accumulation, photosynthetic activity, and chloroplast biogenesis. [[FIGURE]] Given that the sdp mutant accumulates less chlorophyll a than that of the wild-type plant (Figure 3), it would be interesting to determine how chlorophyll a content decreased in the sdp mutant. Therefore, we investigated whether the expression of tetrapyrrole biosynthesis-related genes was altered in the sdp mutant compared with the wild-type plant. Transcript levels of genes involved in tetrapyrrole biosynthesis were determined by real-time RT-PCR analysis. The results showed that transcript levels of CHLD and CHLM increased noticeably in the sdp mutant, compared with that in the wild-type and complementation lines. In contrast, transcript levels of PORA and FC1 decreased markedly in the sdp mutant (Figure 4a). These results demonstrate that chloroplast-localized SDP affects the transcript levels of tetrapyrrole biosynthesis-related genes in the nucleus. Western blot analysis revealed that the level of PORA protein decreased in the sdp mutant compared with that in the wild-type and complementation lines, whereas the levels of PETC and CLPB3 proteins, used as a control, were not altered in the sdp mutant compared with that in the wild-type and complementation lines (Figure 4b). These results demonstrate that chloroplast-localized SDP affects, possibly indirectly, the synthesis of tetrapyrrole biosynthesis-related proteins in the nucleus. [[FIGURE]] To determine whether SDP malfunction affects the transcript levels of chloroplast genes as well as the tetrapyrrole biosynthesis-related genes in the nucleus, the levels of mRNAs in the chloroplast were compared in 4-week-old wild-type and sdp mutant via Affymetrix microarray analysis. As the Affymetrix array does not contain tRNA genes, the transcript levels of tRNAs were determined by quantitative real-time RT-PCR analysis. To confirm the reliability of the microarray results, four upregulated genes and four constant genes in microarray data were selected, and their transcript levels were analyzed by real-time RT-PCR. The results showed that the expression patterns of the genes analyzed by real-time RT-PCR are consistent with the microarray data (Appendix S1; Figure 5a). Microarray analysis revealed that the transcript levels of most chloroplast mRNAs were similar between the wild type and the sdp mutant, whereas the transcript levels of several genes, including ATCG00050, ATCG00640 and ATCG00650, encoding ribosomal protein S16, L33 and S18, ATCG00190 and ATCG00170, encoding RNA polymerase β subunits, and ATCG00700 encoding PSII low-molecular-weight protein, increased up to twofold in the sdp mutant (Appendix S1; Figure 5a). By contrast, the transcript levels of all chloroplast tRNAs significantly increased in the sdp mutant compared with those in the wild-type plant (Figure 5b). [[FIGURE]] As it is evident that SDP plays an important role in plant growth by affecting chlorophyll biosynthesis and photosynthetic activity, the next important question was to understand how SDP exerts it role in these cellular processes. As a chloroplast-targeted ribosomal protein, it is likely that SDP is involved in chloroplast RNA metabolism, including the processing of rRNAs. We therefore investigated whether SDP is involved in the processing of chloroplast rRNAs. Total RNAs extracted from the wild type, sdp mutant and complementation lines were separated on an agarose gel, and northern blot analyses were conducted to detect the processed products of 23S, 16S, 5S and 4.5S rRNAs. The chloroplast rRNAs are initially transcribed as a large polycistronic precursor RNA, and the primary precursor is then digested into the precursors of 16S and 5S rRNAs and 23S–4.5S intermediate, after which the 3.2-kb 23S–4.5S intermediate is cleaved into the 2.9-kb 23S rRNA and 0.1-kb 4.5S rRNA (Nishimura et al., CITATION; Liu et al., CITATION). The results showed that processing of the 23S and 4.5S rRNAs was markedly impaired in the sdp mutant, and processing of the 16S and 5S rRNAs was marginally inhibited in the sdp mutant (Figure 6a). Notably, the 3.2-kb 23S–4.5S intermediate was highly accumulated in the sdp mutant (Figure 6a). The impaired processing of 23S and 4.5S rRNAs was very evident in northern blot analysis using the probe corresponding to the sequence between 23S and 4.5S rRNAs (Figure S5). Abnormal processing patterns of all rRNAs observed in the sdp mutant recovered to normal in the complementation lines. To further confirm impaired rRNA processing in the sdp mutant, polysomal loading of chloroplast rRNAs was investigated. The leaf extracts of the wild-type, sdp mutant and complementation line were fractionated through 15–55% sucrose density gradients, and total RNA extracted from sucrose density gradient fractions was subjected to RNA gel blot analysis. The results showed that the wild type primarily contained mature rRNAs in the polysome fractions, whereas the sdp mutant contained high levels of precursor rRNAs with substantially reduced levels of mature rRNAs (Fig. 6b). Abnormal polysome loading patterns observed in the sdp mutant recovered to normal in the complementation lines. Collectively, these results indicate that SDP is involved in chloroplast rRNA processing. [[FIGURE]] To determine whether SDP affects rRNA processing by directly interacting with rRNAs, the binding ability of SDP to rRNAs was examined. The recombinant thioredoxin (TRX)-SDP fusion proteins were expressed and purified in E. coli (Figure S6), the rRNA genes were cloned into the pGEM T-easy vector and the RNAs were synthesized in vitro using T7 RNA polymerase. When the TRX-SDP fusion proteins were mixed with the radio-labeled 4.5S rRNA, migration of 4.5S rRNA was significantly retarded, but this retardation was abolished after adding excess unlabeled cold 4.5S rRNA (Figure 6c). Similarly, the recombinant TRX-SDP fusion proteins bound to the 23S, 16S and 5S rRNAs (Figure S7). Interestingly, binding between SDP and 4.5S rRNA was inhibited after adding pET-derived synthetic RNA that is not related to rRNA and has no known function (Figure 6c, last lane). These results indicate that the SDP protein binds to all chloroplast rRNAs and suggests that the binding of SDP to RNAs is sequence non-specific. Because the processing of chloroplast rRNAs was impaired in the sdp mutant, we next investigated whether the synthesis of chloroplast proteins is altered in the sdp mutant. Total proteins were extracted from the wild type, sdp mutant and complementation lines, and the levels of several proteins, including RBCL, ATPB, YCF3 and PSBA, were analyzed via western blot analysis using an antibody specific to each protein. The results showed that the levels of RBCL, ATPB and YCF3 were noticeably decreased in the sdp mutant compared with those in wild-type plants and complementation lines (Figure S8). These results demonstrate that SDP affects rRNA processing and in turn influences protein biosynthesis in chloroplasts. Because SDP harbors an S1 RNA-binding domain and binds to diverse RNA substrates, it is likely that SDP plays a role as an RNA chaperone that binds to diverse RNA substrates with low sequence specificity and aids the RNA folding process in cells (Semrad, CITATION; Kang et al., CITATION). To determine whether SDP possesses RNA chaperone activity, several well-established RNA chaperone assays were carried out as described previously (Kang et al., CITATION). First, the complementation ability of SDP in RNA chaperone-deficient cold-sensitive E. coli BX04 mutant cells was analyzed. Cells harboring SDP, the pINIII vector (negative control) or CspA (positive control) grew well at 37°C, with no noticeable differences; however, when the BX04 cells were incubated at 20°C, the SDP-expressing cells grew well, whereas the control cells harboring only the pINIII vector did not grow at a low temperature (Figure 7a). Expression of CspA, the bacterial RNA chaperone used as a positive control, made the E. coli cell grow well at a low temperature. Second, to further determine the RNA chaperone activity of SDP, the nucleic acid-melting activity of SDP was evaluated by measuring fluorescence arising from the melting of the partially double-stranded DNA molecules (Kim et al., CITATION). Adding SDP or CspA to the reaction mixture produced strong fluorescence (Figure 7b), suggesting that SDP and CspA have nucleic acid-melting activity. Third, because RNA chaperones generally bind to diverse RNA substrates with low sequence specificity, the binding ability of SDP to an RNA substrate totally unrelated to rRNAs was evaluated. The RNA substrate used in this assay was a synthetic RNA derived from the pET22 vector and commonly used as an RNA substrate for the sequence non-specific RNA binding assay (Kim et al., CITATION, CITATION). When the TRX-SDP fusion proteins were mixed with the pET22-derived RNAs, migration of the RNA was significantly retarded, whereas adding TRX did not affect the migration of the RNA molecules (Figure S9), showing that SDP can bind RNA sequences non-specifically. Taken together, these results indicate that SDP has RNA chaperone activity. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana Columbia-0 ecotype, the knock-out mutant, complementation lines and SDP-overexpressing transgenic plants were grown at 23°C under long-day conditions (16-h light/8-h dark cycle) in soil or half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 1% sucrose. Arabidopsis sdp mutant seeds (SALK_132069) were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Research Center. Complementation lines and overexpressing transgenic plants were generated using the pCambia1301 vector that expresses the full-length SDP gene under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. Arabidopsis transformation was carried out by the vacuum infiltration method (Bechtold and Pelletier, CITATION) using Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101. The T3 or T4 homozygous lines were selected and used for phenotype analysis. The SDP-GFP fusion protein was expressed in Arabidopsis under the control of the cassava mosaic virus promoter. Cellular expression of the SDP-GFP protein was observed in the roots and leaves of plants using a Zeiss LSM510 laser scanning confocal microscope (Carl Zeiss, http://microscopy.zeiss.com), with excitation and emission wavelengths of 488 and 505 nm, respectively. Total RNA was extracted from frozen tissue samples using the Plant RNeasy Extraction kit (Qiagen, http://www.qiagen.com). RNA (200 ng) was reverse transcribed and amplified using a One-step RT-PCR kit (Qiagen) with the gene-specific primers listed in Table S1. Real-time quantification of RNAs was carried out in a Rotor-Gene Q real-time thermal cycling system (Qiagen) using a QuantiTect SYBR Green RT-PCR kit (Qiagen) with the gene-specific primers listed in Table S1. For northern blot analysis, total RNA extracted from 4-week-old plants was size fractionated on a 1.2% agarose or 16.5% formaldehyde gel, blotted to a Hybond-N+ nylon membrane (Amersham Biosciences, http://www.selectscience.net), and then cross-linked under UV. Hybridization with 32P-labeled probes was performed in 0.15% SDS, 5 × SSC, 5 × Denhardt's solution, salmon sperm DNA (10 mg ml−1) and 50% formamide, at 42°C overnight. The genes encoding chloroplast rRNAs were cloned into the pGEM T-easy vector, and the hybridization probes were amplified by PCR. The probes were labeled with 32P-dCTP using the Random Primer DNA Labeling Kit (TaKaRa Bio, http://www.takara-bio.com) according to the manufacturer's instructions. The probes contained rRNA sequences of the following region: rrn16S (position 101 500–102 482), rrn23S (position 104 691–106 691), rrn4.5S (position 107 599–107 701) and rrn5S (130 580–130 700). Polysomal loading analysis of chloroplast rRNAs was performed essentially as described previously (Jeon et al., CITATION). Briefly, leaf extracts of the wild type, sdp mutant and complementation lines were fractionated through 15–55% sucrose density gradients. Total RNA was extracted from sucrose density gradient fractions and subjected to RNA gel blot analysis. Affymetrix GeneChip® Arabidopsis ATH1 arrays containing 71 chloroplast genes were used for the analysis of chloroplast transcripts in 4-week-old wild type and sdp mutant. Three biological replicates were used for microarray hybridization. The cDNA was labeled with biotin, and the slides were scanned using a GenePix4000B scanner (Molecular Devices, http://www.moleculardevices.com). Hybridization signal intensities were determined using nimblescan software (Nimblegen, http://www.nimblegen.com). To determine whether genes were differentially expressed between the two groups, a paired Student's t-test was performed on the MAS5 expression values for three replicates. Differences in the expression level of selected genes were further verified by real-time RT-PCR analysis. The leaves of the wild type, sdp mutant and complementation lines were ground with a mortar in liquid nitrogen, and total proteins were extracted by adding homogenization buffer (50 mm Tris–HCl, pH 7.5, 250 mm sucrose, 1 mm EDTA, 100 mm PMSF, 5 mm leupeptin and 100 mm DTT). Approximately 20 μg of extracted proteins was separated on SDS-12% polyacrylamide gels and transferred to polyvinylidene difluoride (PVDF) membranes. The proteins on the membranes were stained with Ponceau-S staining solution (0.1% Ponceau-S in 5.0% acetic acid). Western blotting was performed according to the manufacturer's instructions (Agrisera, http://www.agrisera.com) using a polyclonal rabbit antibody specific to each protein. After binding to horseradish peroxidase-conjugated goat anti-rabbit IgG antibody, the signals were detected with an enhanced chemiluminescence kit and an FLA7000 Phosphorimager (GE Healthcare Life Sciences, http://www.gelifesciences.com). The full-length cDNA encoding SDP was cloned into the NcoI/SalI site of the pET32a vector (Novagen, http://www.novagen.com) to generate recombinant SDP proteins harboring N-terminal thioredoxin (TRX) and C-terminal His-tag. The TRX-SDP fusion proteins were expressed in E. coli Rosetta (DE3) strain (Novagen) and purified on an Ni Sepharose™ fast-flow affinity column (GE Healthcare) with the elution buffer containing 50–500 mm imidazole. To prepare RNA substrates for the RNA binding assay, the cDNAs encoding each chloroplast rRNA were cloned into the pGEM T-easy vector, and the 33P-UTP-labeled RNAs were synthesized in vitro using T7 RNA polymerase. The RNA substrates were incubated with the purified TRX or TRX-SDP fusion protein in binding buffer (10 mm Tris–HCl, pH 7.5, 50 mm NaCl, 1 mm EDTA, and 7.5% glycerol) on ice for 30 min. The reacted mixtures were loaded on 6% native acrylamide gel, and the binding products were detected using a FLA7000 Phosphorimager. For the complementation assay in E. coli BX04 mutant cell, which lacks four cold-shock proteins and is highly sensitive to cold temperatures (Xia et al., CITATION), the pINIII vector expressing SDP were constructed essentially as described previously (Kim et al., CITATION). The BX04 mutant cells harboring pINIII-SDP, pINIII-CspA (positive) or pINIII (negative) were grown in LB medium containing ampicillin and kanamycin, and the serially diluted cultures of BX04 cells were spotted on LB medium and incubated at 37 or 20°C. For the in vitro DNA-melting assay, the partially double-stranded DNA molecules labeled with a fluorophore (tetramethylrhodamine) and quencher (dabcyl) were synthesized as described previously (Phadtare et al., CITATION; Kim et al., CITATION). The fluorescence emitted from the reaction between the recombinant proteins and the DNA molecules was measured using a Spectra Max Gemini XS spectrofluorometer (Molecular Devices), with excitation and emission wavelengths of 555 and 575 nm, respectively.
