!~ABS~! The freezing tolerance of Arabidopsis thaliana is enhanced by cold acclimation, resulting in changes in the compositions and function of the plasma membrane. Here, we show that a dynamin-related protein 1E (DRP1E), which is thought to function in the vesicle trafficking pathway in cells, is related to an increase in freezing tolerance during cold acclimation. DRP1E accumulated in sphingolipid and sterol-enriched plasma membrane domains after cold acclimation. Analysis of drp1e mutants clearly showed that DRP1E is required for full development of freezing tolerance after cold acclimation. DRP1E fused with green fluorescent protein was visible as small foci that overlapped with fluorescent dye-labelled plasma membrane, providing evidence that DRP1E localizes non-uniformly in specific areas of the plasma membrane. These results suggest that DRP1E accumulates in sphingolipid and sterol-enriched plasma membrane domains and plays a role in freezing tolerance development during cold acclimation.
!~RES~! Previously, we showed that some DRP1 and 2 subfamily proteins (DRP1A, DRP1E and DRP2A/2B) accumulated in sphingolipid and sterol-enriched plasma membrane fractions isolated from cold-acclimated Arabidopsis seedlings (Minami et al., CITATION). Among these DRPs, only DRP1E transcriptionally responded to low temperatures (Minami et al., CITATION). To investigate changes in the transcript levels of all Arabidopsis DRP family genes during cold acclimation further, we retrieved gene expression data from the microarray database NASCArrays (http://affymetrix.arabidopsis.info/; Craigon et al., CITATION). We selected the NASCArrays-404 data set (Kaplan et al., CITATION) because the growth and cold treatment conditions used to generate the data set were similar to our experimental conditions. Among the 15 DRP genes (of the 16 Arabidopsis DRP genes; DRP4D was missing in the database), two genes in the DRP1 subfamily, DRP1B and 1E, were transcriptionally induced in rosette leaves after treatment at 4°C for 24 h or longer (Figure 1). DRP4A, 4B and 6 appeared to respond to cold but the changes were not statistically significant (P < 0.05). [[FIGURE]] Next, we examined the tissue specificity of the DRP1 and DRP2 subfamily gene expression using microarray data after normalization by RMA (robust multi-array analysis) at the Arabidopsis eFP Browser (http://www.bar.utoronto.ca/). DRP1A, 1C, 1E, 2A and 2B were strongly expressed in leaves at all stages, but DRP1B and 1D showed low expression in leaves (Figure S1; Collings et al., CITATION; Bednarek and Backues, CITATION). DRP1B was mainly expressed in mature pollen and the stamen at the flowering stage and DRP1D was expressed in mature pollen. These results suggested that among the DRP families, DRP1E was a major cold-responsive gene in mature leaves. To investigate the cold responsiveness of the DRP1E protein, we generated an anti-peptide antibody against DRP1E (Figure S2) and carried out western blot analysis using plasma membrane and DRM fractions isolated from 3-week-old Arabidopsis leaves. Cold treatment for 4 days resulted in the accumulation of DRP1E in the plasma membrane fraction, especially in the DRM fraction (Figure 2). CHC, which is a component of the CCP presumably together with dynamins, was found exclusively in the DRM and also accumulated after cold treatment, although there were no changes in the transcript levels of two genes encoding Arabidopsis CHCs (Minami et al., CITATION). [[FIGURE]] For functional analysis of DRP1E in the cold acclimation of plants, we isolated a drp1e homozygous plant from T-DNA insertion line (SALK_060080; drp1e-1) in the Arabidopsis Col-0 background (Figure 3a). The expression of the full-length DRP1E gene increased in the wild-type after a 4-day cold treatment, but no PCR fragments were amplified from the drp1e-1 either before or after cold treatment (Figure 3b). Immunoblotting analyses with the anti-DRP1E antibody detected DRP1E as a 70-kD protein in the plasma membrane fraction from wild-type plants but not from drp1e-1 (Figure 3c). These results clearly show that there is no expression of full-length gene or protein in drp1e-1. In addition, there were no visible phenotypic differences (growth rate, leaf size and production) between wild-type and drp1e-1 plants when grown under normal growth conditions (Figure 3d). [[FIGURE]] Next, we used real-time PCR analyses to examine the cold responsiveness in gene expression of the DRP1 subfamily in leaf tissues (Figure 3e). Expression of the DRP1A gene under non-acclimated conditions was greater in drp1e-1 than in the wild-type. However, after cold acclimation, the difference in DRP1A expression between the wild-type and drp1e was cancelled because expression of the DRP1A gene in the wild-type slightly increased (approximately two-fold) after cold treatment. The expression of the DRP1B gene, which is found mainly in flower tissues (Figure S1), slightly decreased in drp1e-1 under non-acclimated conditions, but cold acclimation induced DRP1B gene expression in leaf tissues of both the wild-type and drp1e-1 at the same level (approximately four-fold). We found no difference between the wild-type and drp1e-1 in DRP1C expression either before or after cold acclimation. The extent of DRP1D expression during cold acclimation was similar in the wild-type and drp1e-1 although cold acclimation slightly decreased its expression. DRP1E expression increased four-fold in the wild-type after cold acclimation, and the extent of the increase was far greater than that of other DRP1s that are expressed in leaf tissues such as DRP1A and DRP1C. These results indicated that deletion of DRP1E does not affect the expression of other DRP1 subfamily members significantly after cold acclimation. To confirm whether cold-responsive DRP1E is associated with freezing tolerance in Arabidopsis, we determined the freezing tolerance of wild-type and drp1e-1 plants using two types of freezing tolerance tests; regrowth ability assay and electrolyte leakage assay (Figure 4). To test regrowth ability, whole plants grown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) agar medium were transferred to cooled test tubes and then frozen under controlled conditions at a cooling rate of 2°C per hour (Figure 4a–d). After a freeze/thaw cycle, plants were grown on soil at 23°C for 12 days and then the number of plants with new leaves was counted to determine the survival rate. Before cold acclimation, the temperatures at which 50% of plants were killed (LT50: temperature for 50% mortality) were not significantly different between the wild-type and drp1e-1 plants (−7.5 and −7.4°C, respectively). Cold acclimation for 7 days resulted in an increase in freezing tolerance in both plants, but the wild-type plants acquired significantly greater tolerance than the drp1e-1 plants (LT50 of −14.4 and −12.9°C, respectively). In addition, we carried out the regrowth ability assay using another drp1e mutant, GABI line (GABI168C11; drp1e-2, Figure S3). The LT50 of drp1e-2 before and after cold acclimation were −7.2°C and −12.6°C, respectively (Figure 4c, d). These results clearly demonstrated that during cold acclimation, drp1e plants were less capable of developing freezing tolerance than the wild-type plants. [[FIGURE]] Next, we further determined the extent of electrolyte leakage from detached leaves of plants grown on MS agar medium (third and fourth leaves counted from the oldest one) after a freeze-thaw cycle as an index of membrane stability under freezing condition. In non-acclimated plants, the extent of electrolyte leakage was not significantly different between the wild-type and drp1e mutants at all temperatures tested. The temperatures for 50% electrolyte leakages (EL50) were −6.7, −6.6 and −6.1 for wild-type, drp1e-1 and drp1e-2, respectively (Figure 4e). After cold acclimation for 7 days, conversely, the extent of electrolyte leakage from leaves of drp1e mutants was greater than that of wild-type leaves, and EL50 of wild-type, drp1e-1 and drp1e-2 were −9.7°C, −8.3°C and −8.3°C, respectively (Figure 4f). Taken together, these freezing assays clearly showed that drp1e had impaired development of freezing tolerance during cold acclimation because the plasma membrane is less stable in the mutant against freeze-induced stresses than in wild-type. To further confirm function of DRP1E in freezing tolerance, we complemented the drp1e-1 mutant with DRP1E using the DRP1E-coding region expressed under the native DRP1E promoter. DRP1E expression was confirmed in the transgenic Arabidopsis (DRP1E/drp1e-1) both before and after cold acclimation (Figure S4). The expression of DRP1E in the DRP1E/drp1e-1 plant recovered the development of freezing tolerance during cold acclimation for 7 days in regrowth ability: survival of the complemented line (DRP1E #13) was similar to that of wild-type plants after freezing and the LT50 was −14.0°C (Figure 4g, h). When we determined electrolyte leakage from leaves after freezing, the extent of leakage from the complemented line was less than that of drp1e-1 and EL50 of DRP1E #13 (EL50 = −9.8°C) was at the same level to that of wild-type (Figure 4i). Interestingly, when kept in a cold chamber (2°C) for 2 weeks, leaves of drp1e mutants turned to purple color, suggesting that both drp1e mutants are likely to accumulate anthocyanin after longer cold treatment (Figure S5). Nevertheless, because we do not observe any phenotypic differences in wild-type and drp1e mutants after a shorter period of cold acclimation (within 7 days), there are no or little effects on differences in freezing tolerance between these plants under conditions we employed in this study. To determine the subcellular localization of DRP1E in cells, we generated transgenic plants expressed GFP–tagged DRP1E under the control of the CaMV35S promoter (35S::GFP–DRP1E) (Figure 5a) because green fluorescent protein (GFP) signals of the native promoter derived GFP–DRP1E were very weak in our microscope system. The anti-GFP antibody recognized a single protein of approximately 100 kD in the microsomal and plasma membrane fractions isolated from the leaves of transgenic plants (GFP–DRP1Eox; Figure 5b). Immunoblot analysis using the anti-DRP1E antibody showed that GFP–DRP1E (approximately 100 kD) and native DRP1E (approximately 70 kD) were accumulated in plasma membrane fractions of GFP–DRP1Eox leaves (Figure 5c). To biochemically confirm the subcellular localization of DRP1E, a microsomal fraction from GFP–DRP1Eox leaves was fractionated by 15 to 50% (w/w) linear sucrose density gradient centrifugation (Figure 5d). Immunoblot analysis revealed that both GFP–DRP1E and native DRP1E were enriched in fractions 11, 12, and 13 (35–39% sucrose) after the centrifugation. Plasma membrane aquaporins (PIPs), which were used as plasma membrane marker proteins, were also detected in these fractions. These results implied that GFP–DRP1E and native DRP1E were localized in the plasma membrane. [[FIGURE]] Next, we observed GFP–DRP1E fluorescence in leaf protoplasts of GFP–DRP1Eox using confocal fluorescence microscopy. Interestingly, the fluorescence foci of GFP–DRP1E were localized as patchy areas of dot-like structures on and in the close vicinity of the plasma membrane (Figure 5e). When GFP–DRP1Eox leaf protoplasts were stained with FM4-64 to visualize the plasma membrane (Bolte et al., CITATION) and subsequently observed with a confocal fluorescence microscope, FM4-64-labelled plasma membrane overlapped with foci of GFP–DRP1E. Moreover, transient co-expression analysis of GFP–DRP1E and PIP-mCherry, a plasma membrane marker protein, that were introduced into tobacco leaf by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation showed that GFP–DRP1E foci overlapped with PIP-mCherry signals at the cell surface (Figure 5f). These results collectively indicated that GFP–DRP1E foci were non-uniformly distributed at the plasma membrane. We then analyzed in detail the behavior (subcellular localization) of GFP–DRP1E foci near the plasma membrane in root tissues of GFP–DRP1Eox. As in leaf protoplasts, GFP–DRP1E signals in root tissues came from heterogeneously localized regions on the plasma membranes and coincided with FM4-64-labelled plasma membrane (Figure S6a and Methods S1). There were strong GFP–DRP1E signals at the cell plate in the division zone of the root (arrowheads in Figure S6a). We also found that many GFP–DRP1E foci on the cell surface appeared and disappeared within short time intervals (arrowheads in Figure 6a). The observation prompted us to analyze time-lapse images of the GFP–DRP1E foci on the cell surface. Three images captured at approximately 13-sec intervals were pseudocolored with three different colors and, therefore, the GFP–DRP1E foci appeared as white dots in a merged image of the three pictures if they did not move within 27 sec. However, almost all foci were shown in different colors (Figure 6b), suggesting that many GFP–DRP1E foci moved dynamically within this period. In addition, there was a random distribution to the colored foci in the merged image, indicating that the GFP–DRP1E foci did not move horizontally but appeared and disappeared from the cell surface. We observed that most of the GFP signals were near the cell surface, while a few GFP foci were in cytoplasmic regions in the leaf protoplast. Tang et al. (CITATION) reported that DRP1E was localized in mitochondria as determined by transient expression analysis of 35S::GFP–DRP1E although the abnormal mitochondrial phenotype caused by deletion of DRP1E (Jin et al., CITATION) was later challenged by Kang et al. (CITATION) and Tang et al. (CITATION). When we stained the mitochondria of root cells using MitoTracker Red, however, there did not seem to be any co-localization of GFP–DRP1E signals with MitoTracker Red-derived signals (Figure S6b and Methods S1). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. (ecotype Columbia-0) plants were grown on soil at 23°C under continuous light (75–100 μmol m−2 sec−1 at soil level) as described previously (Uemura et al., CITATION). Three to four-week-old seedlings before bolting were used as non-acclimated plants. Cold-acclimated plants were obtained by transferring non-acclimated plants to a controlled environment chamber at 2°C (12-h photoperiod, 75–100 μmol m−2 sec−1 at soil level) for 4–7 days. drp1e mutants (SALK_060080 and GABI-KAT 168C11) were obtained from the Salk Institute and the GABI-KAT facility, respectively, and homozygous drp1e lines were screened by genomic RT-PCR using primers listed in Table S1. Selected homozygous lines were used in experiments. Plasma membrane fractions were isolated using a polyethylene glycol-dextran aqueous two-phase partition system (Uemura et al., CITATION). DRM fractions were isolated by subjecting the purified plasma membrane fractions to detergent (1% [w/v] Triton X-100) treatment for 30 min on ice and then collected after sucrose density gradient centrifugation according to the method of Minami et al. (CITATION). To obtain an anti-peptide antibody for DRP1E, we chose two DRP1E-specific amino acid regions (Figure S2). The two peptides (GTGSNAFNSL+C and C+IERPVTNSKNQTASPSSATL) and an antibody against these peptides were prepared by Operon Biotechnologies (Tokyo, Japan). The antiserum purified with a peptide affinity column was used for immunoblotting as an anti-DRP1E antibody (1:2000 to 1:1000 dilution). We also used anti-band-7 family protein antibody (1: 2000 dilution; Minami et al., CITATION), anti-clathrin heavy chain 4A8 antibody (1:1000 dilution; Abcam, Tokyo, Japan) or anti-GFP antibody (1:1000 dilution; Nacalai Tesque, Kyoto, Japan) as primary antibodies. Immunoblotting was conducted as described previously (Minami et al., CITATION). The specificity of the DRP1E antibody was determined by western blotting of drp1e mutants (Figure S3b). Silver staining was done according to the method of Kawamura and Uemura (CITATION). Total RNA was extracted from leaves and treated with DNase I using the RNeasy Plant Mini kit (Qiagen, Tokyo, Japan). First-strand cDNA was synthesized from 250 ng total RNA using oligo(dT) and random primers by reverse transcription reactions (ReverTra Ace-α cDNA synthesis kit, TOYOBO, Tokyo, Japan). Quantitative real-time RT-PCR for DRP1 family genes was performed using a Thermal Cycler Dice Real-Time System (TaKaRa, Otsu, Japan) according to the manufacturer's instructions. We used SYBR Premix Ex Taq™ II (TIi RNase H Plus; TaKaRa) for PCR amplification and analyzed PCR reactions with the thermal cycler dice real-time system software Ver2.0. The primers for the real-time RT-PCR reactions are listed in Table S1. Sterilized seeds were placed in square petri plates on solid MS medium (Murashige-Shoog salt with 0.05% Mes (pH 5.7), 1% sucrose, and B5 vitamin mixture and 0.8% agar) and stratified by incubation for 2 days at 4°C in the dark. Conditions for growth and cold acclimation were the same as those described above, except that 2-week-old plants were used as non-acclimated plants because the growth rate of plants on agar plate is faster than that of plants on soil. Freezing tolerance was determined using two different tests: regrowth test and electrolyte leakage test. For the regrowth test, plants were first rinsed twice in cold MilliQ water and transferred to a cooled test tube with a piece of moist paper. Tubes without freezing treatment were kept in the dark at 4°C. To avoid supercooling of the cells/tissues that results in suddenly intracellular freezing and, hence, irreversible damage leading to cell death, the tubes were placed in a liquid programmable freezer (NCB-3400; EYELA, Tokyo, Japan) at −2°C for 15 min and then ice-inoculated by addition of 25 μl ice onto the moist paper in the tube. Cells/tissues were fully frozen inter-cellularly under conditions of the incubation at −2°C for 2 h, and then the tubes were cooled down at a rate of 2°C per h in the dark. The tubes were collected when they reached the target temperature and kept in the dark overnight at 4°C to thaw. The thawed plants were transferred to soil and grown at 23°C. Plants that produced new leaves or flowers within 12 days after freezing were counted as surviving plants. For the electrolyte leakage assay, which determines the extent of integrity of the plasma membrane, the primary site of freezing injury in plants, and, hence, has been widely used for freezing tolerance determination (Dexter et al., CITATION; Levitt, CITATION), the third and fourth leaves (counted from the oldest leaf) were cut from 2-week-old plants and rinsed in distilled water. After the removal of excess water, the leaves were placed in test tubes containing 0.1 ml MilliQ water. Tubes without freezing treatment were kept in the dark at 4°C. Freezing and thawing were conducted as described above. After samples were thawed, water was added to each tube (2 ml per leaf) and the tubes were incubated at room temperature for 2 h in the dark with shaking before measuring the amount of electrolyte leakage (ELft) with an electrical conductivity meter (Twin Cond; Horiba, Kyoto, Japan). The samples were then boiled for 30 min and gently shaken for 2 h before re-determining the electric conductivity (EL100). The extent of electrolyte leakage from the freeze/thawed sample was calculated using the formula ELft/EL100 × 100. LT50 (lethal temperature for 50% mortality) for the regrowth test and EL50 (temperature for 50% electrolyte leakage) were determined by fitting sigmoidal curve of the mean values using Solver in Excel. All statistical analyses were performed with mathematica ver. 9.0 (Wolfram Research). For drp1e complementation, the DRP1E promoter fragment from −847 bp to +182 (just upstream of the ATG) and the full-length ORF (open reading frame) of DRP1E were amplified and subcloned into cloning vector pTA2 (TOYOBO). The used primers are listed in Table S1. Both sequences were transferred simultaneously into the multiple cloning site of the pCAMBIA1300 binary vector. The plasmid was transferred into the drp1e-1 mutant (SALK_060080) using the Agrobacterium tumefaciens (GV3101)-mediated floral dip method (Clough and Bent, CITATION). Transgenic lines in the T2 or T3 generation were used for further analyses. To obtain microsomal fractions, seedlings were homogenized using a polytron (Brinkmann, Dallas, TX, USA) in a buffer composed of 0.25 m sorbitol, 50 mm MOPS (pH 7.6), 5 mm EGTA, 5 mm EDTA, 1.5% (w/v) polyvinylpyrrolidone 40, 2 mm PMSF, 4 mm salicylhydroxamic acid and 3 mm DTT. The homogenates were filtered through four layers of cheesecloth and centrifuged at 2770 g (Rmax) for 10 min at 4°C. The supernatant was centrifuged at 231 000 g (Rmax) for 35 min at 4°C in an RT50 rotor (Hitachi, Tokyo, Japan) to precipitate microsomal fractions. The pellet was resuspended in suspension buffer (5 mm MOPS, pH 7.3; 1 mm EGTA, 2 mm DTT) with 0.3 M sucrose. The microsomal suspension was layered onto a 15 to 50% (w/w) sucrose linear gradient prepared using the suspension buffer and then centrifuged at 141 000 g (Rmax) for 20 h at 4°C in a P28S rotor (Hitachi). After centrifugation, the gradient was fractionated into 20 fractions using a fraction collector (CHF100AA; Advantec, Tokyo, Japan). The protein content of each fraction was determined using a Bio-Rad Protein Assay kit (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Hercules, CA, USA) and the sucrose concentration was determined with a portable brix meter (RA-250HE; Kyoto Electronics Manufacturing, Kyoto, Japan). For western blotting analysis, equal volumes of each fraction were loaded onto gels. To generate transgenic plants overexpressing GFP–tagged DRP1E, DRP1E cDNA obtained from the RIKEN BioResource Center (BRC) was amplified using the primers CACCATGACGACTATGGAGAGTT and TCATCTTACCCAAGCAACAGCAT and then cloned into pENTR/D-TOPO (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA). The construct was transferred using Gateway technology into the pGWB6 vector containing the CaMV35S promoter and a sGFP tag. The pGWB6-DRP1E (sGFP–DRP1E) vector was transformed into Arabidopsis Col-0 using the Agrobacterium-mediated floral-dip procedure. Sterilized T1 seeds were sown on solid MS medium containing kanamycin and rifampicin. T3 plants showing GFP fluorescence were used as 35S::GFP–DRP1E transgenic plants (GFP–DRP1Eox) in the following experiments. To determine the localization of GFP–DRP1E, protoplasts of GFP–DRP1Eox plants were enzymatically isolated from non-acclimated leaves according to the method of Uemura et al. (CITATION) and were observed using a confocal laser scanning microscope with a 488 nm laser (C2si; Nikon). For visualization of the plasma membrane, 8 μm FM4-64 (Invitrogen) was used. Images were analyzed with the image analysis software nis-elements (Nikon). The plasma membrane of cells was stained with 8 μm FM4-64 (Invitrogen). For time-lapse analysis, root cells were observed at room temperature using a microscope (BX-61; Olympus, Tokyo, Japan) with the confocal laser scanning unit of a CSU 10 (Yokogawa, Tokyo, Japan), a 488 nm laser (Furukawa, Tokyo, Japan), a CCD camera Retiga 2000R (QImaging, Surrey, BC, Canada) and the emission filter of an Em01-R488-25 (Semrock, Lake Forest, IL, USA) for GFP. Images were captured with the image analysis software slidebook (Intelligent Imaging Innovations, Denver, CO USA). The fluorescent plasma membrane marker protein PM-RB (35S::PIP2A-mCherry) vector (Nelson et al., CITATION) was purchased from the ABRC Stock Center. For co-expression analysis, the constructs 35S::GFP–DRP1E and 35S::PIP2A-mCherry were transiently expressed by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation in leaf cells of Nicotiana benthamiana. After 2 days, we observed the co-expression pattern in leaf epidermal cells using a laser scanning confocal microscope (FV1000D IX81, Olympus).
