!~ABS~!  Establishment of apex-polarity.  Elongation of the pollen tube is a highly coordinated process involving polarized secretion of cell wall and membrane materials to the apical region. We investigated changes in the localization of soluble NSF attachment proteins (SNAREs) in developing pollen grains and the pollen tube for transgenic Arabidopsis expressing pollen-specific plasma-membrane Qa-SNAREs (SYP124, 125 and 131) fused with the green fluorescent protein (GFP). The expression of SYP124 and SYP125 was firstly detected in the microspore nuclear membrane during pollen mitosis II. Although SYP124, 125 and 131 accumulated throughout the cytosol in the mature pollen grain, GFP-SYP124 and GFP-SYP125 were highly concentrated in the apical or subapical regions of the elongating pollen tube with slightly different localization patterns, whereas GFP-SYP131 was uniformly localized to the plasma membrane of the pollen tube. The apex-focused polarity of GFP-SYP125 was established coincident with formation of a Ca2+ gradient before pollen germination. These results suggest that SNAREs function differentially in the same cells and that at least two distinct membrane transport pathways are involved in the pollen development and the pollen tube germination and elongation. 
!~RES~! We have previously demonstrated that SYP124, SYP125 and SYP131 are specifically expressed in pollen grains (Enami et al. CITATION). In the present study, we examined the expression profiles of these SNARE molecules during pollen development in further detail. As shown in Figs. 1 and S1, expression of SYP124/125 was first detected at floral stages 10–11, during which pollen mitosis I occurs (Smyth et al. CITATION). Subsequently, expression abruptly vanished at floral stages 11 and 12 and was detected again after floral stage 12 when the pollen grains were matured. In contrast, expression of SYP131 was only detected at advanced stages of floral development (floral stages 13 and 14). [[FIGURE]]  To investigate changes in the expression and the subcellular localization of SYP124, SYP125 and SYP131 during pollen development, we observed the fluorescence in developing pollen grains of transgenic plants expressing SYP124, SYP125 and SYP131 fused with green fluorescent protein (GFP) under the control of their promoters (Enami et al. CITATION). In the case of GFP-SYP124- and SYP125-expressing plants, oval-shaped GFP fluorescence was observed during mitosis I in the developing pollen grain (Fig. 2a, b, g, h). Fluorescence of GFP-SYP124 and GFP-SYP125 was abolished completely after pollen mitosis I (Fig. 2c, i). Subsequently, GFP-SYP124 and GFP-SYP125 fluorescence was re-established in the cytosol of the mature pollen grain (Fig. 2d, j), whereas fluorescence of GFP-SYP124 and GFP-SYP125 was predominantly observed in the subapical region of the pollen tube, but not in the cytosol and the PM of the pollen grain after germination (Figs. 2e, f, k, l, S4). These expression patterns were completely consistent with the RT-PCR analysis. These results indicate that SYP124 and SYP125 might first function during pollen mitosis I. To determine the subcellular localization of the oval-shaped GFP fluorescence, we stained uninucleate microspores from GFP-SYP124-expressing plants with DAPI. The fluorescence of GFP-SYP124 was merged with the fluorescence of DAPI, indicating that GFP-SYP124/125 was localized to the microspore nuclear membrane in the developing pollen grain (Fig. S2). Thus, SYP124 and SYP125 might play a role in membrane rearrangement before the generative nucleus and vegetative nucleus are generated from the microspore nucleus and before the plasma membrane (PM) of the generative cell is formed (Angold CITATION; Park et al. CITATION). [[FIGURE]]  In contrast, GFP-SYP131 fluorescence was first detected in the cytosol of mature pollen grains (Fig. 2p). Oval-shaped fluorescence of GFP-SYP131 in the cytosol was never observed during early stages of pollen development (Fig. 2m–o). After pollen germination, GFP-SYP131 fluorescence was uniformly localized to the PM of the pollen tube. Note that the fluorescence of GFP-SYP131 at the PM of the pollen grain was relatively weaker than that in pollen tube (Figs. 2q, r, S4, S5). Intriguingly, GFP-SYP132 fluorescence was predominantly localized to the PM of the pollen grain, but after germination, the fluorescence was not localized to the PM of the pollen tube, in contrast to the localization of GFP-SYP132 (Fig. S5), which suggested that the PM of the pollen tube is structurally distinct from the PM of the pollen grain. We observed that SYP124, SYP125 and SYP131 accumulated in the cytosol of mature pollen grains. The mature pollen grain contains small vacuoles, and these vacuoles are extended into a tubular structure in the pollen tube (Hicks et al. CITATION). Similarly, pollen-specific SNAREs might accumulate in the secretory vesicles in the pollen grains as a membrane reservoir for rapid pollen tube elongation. We have previously shown that GFP-SYP125 localized to the apical region of the pollen tube, whereas GFP-SYP124 localized to the subapical region of the pollen tube (Enami et al. CITATION). Alternatively, SYP125 is reported to be localized asymmetrically 20–35 μm behind the pollen tube apex (Ul-Rehman et al. CITATION), whereas SYP124 shows a specific distribution with the highest fluorescent labeling observed in more distal of the PM regions, 10–25 μm behind the apex of growing pollen tubes (Silva et al. CITATION). This discrepancy might be due to the comparison using two different transgenic plants expressing single fluorescent protein. Therefore, to determine the precise localization of SYP124 and SYP125 in the elongating pollen tube, we generated transgenic plants that simultaneously coexpress GFP-SYP124 and tagRFP-SYP125 in pollen. In hydrated mature pollen grains, fluorescence of GFP-SYP124 and tagRFP-SYP125 was distributed uniformly throughout the cytosol (Fig. 3a, b). The fluorescence patterns of the two proteins seemed to be slightly different in the cytosol (Fig. 3c, d). After pollen germination, the polarity of GFP-SYP124 and tagRFP-SYP125 was established at the apex of the pollen tube; however, fluorescence from the two proteins at the shank of pollen tube was different: GFP-SYP124 mainly localized to the PM, while tagRFP-SYP125 was dispersed in the cytosol (Fig. 3e–h). In the elongating pollen tube, GFP-SYP124 and tagRFP-SYP125 were colocalized to the inverted cone of apical vesicles, but not at the pollen tube apex. Higher fluorescence intensity for GFP-SYP124 but not tagRFP-SYP125 was observed at the flanks of the subapical PM of the pollen tube and (Fig. 3i–m). In Fig. S4, we analyzed the colocalization of GFP-SYP124 and GFP-SYP125 with FM4-64. These data showed that the fluorescence of GFP-SYP124 was mainly merged with the PM, while GFP-SYP125 was merged with both the PM and the internal vesicles, suggesting that GFP-SYP125 is more internalized and recycled than GFP-SYP124. From these results, we concluded that SYP124 and SYP125 localized to vesicles in cytosol in the mature pollen grain, whereas SYP124 localized to the PM and vesicles and SYP125 mainly localized to secretory vesicles and in germinated and elongating pollen tube. [[FIGURE]]  SYP131 and SYP132 are reported to be used in the general secretion pathway (Peer CITATION; Kania et al. CITATION), whereas SYP12s are involved in specific secretion pathways, such as tip growth of root hair (Ichikawa et al. CITATION) and papillae formation (Assaad et al. CITATION; Zhang et al. CITATION). In root-hair cells, SYP123 and SYP132 form SNARE complexes with R-SNAREs VAMP721/722/724 and act in a coordinated fashion to mediate tip-focused membrane trafficking for root-hair tip growth (Ichikawa et al. CITATION). In pollen grains, R-SNAREs, VAMP725 and 726 are specifically expressed (Honys and Twell CITATION). Given that a similar tip-focused membrane trafficking mechanism of root hair is used in pollen tube elongation, SYP124, SYP125 and SYP131 might form SNARE complexes with VAMP725 and VAMP726 for tip growth of pollen tube. Namely, SYP124 and SYP125 function on the recycling pathway in the pollen tube tip, while SYP131 acts in the non-polarized secretion to the PM of plasma membrane. We also found that localization of SYP124 and SYP125 is slightly different in elongating pollen tube. The data suggest that SYP124 and SYP125 have distinct function in pollen tube elongation. A loss-of-function analysis using syp124 and syp125 mutants is needed to clarify the function of these SNAREs. We previously reported that polarized accumulation of SYP123 on root-hair tip is F-actin cytoskeleton dependent. We tested whether the polarized accumulation of SYP124 and SYP125 is also F-actin dependent, an actin polymerization inhibitor, latrunculin-B (Lat-B) was treated during pollen tube elongation. After 4-μM-Lat-B treatment, the focal accumulation of GFP-SYP124 and GFP-SYP125 in the pollen tube tip region was completely disappeared, and the tip region of the pollen tubes was abnormally swollen, and then the pollen tubes of GFP-SYP124 and GFP-SYP125 expressing plants were finally ruptured (Fig. 4). Thus, we concluded that the tip-focused accumulation of SYP124 and SYP125 is also F-actin cytoskeleton dependent. [[FIGURE]]  It has been reported that Ca2+ dynamics are important for pollen germination during pollination (Brewbaker and Kwack CITATION; Iwano et al. CITATION). We have previously shown that SYP124 and SYP125 show polar localization to the apical region of the growing pollen tube, whereas these proteins are uniformly distributed throughout the cytosol of mature pollen grains (Enami et al. CITATION). This observation raises the important question of when the polarity of SYP124/125 is established in pollen grains, although the relationship between the polarity establishment of pollen SNAREs and Ca2+ dynamics is largely unknown during pollen germination. To examine the relationship between Ca2+ dynamics and establishment of SYP124/125 polarity in the pollen grain during pollination, we generated transgenic plants simultaneously expressing the calcium sensor protein yellow chameleon (YC3.60) and tagRFP-SYP125. A pollen grain from a GFP-SYP125-expressing transformant was placed on a papilla cell of the stigma of a WT plant. The pollen grain was hydrated after 5 min. Twenty minutes after pollination, the intensity of GFP-SYP125 fluorescence was predominantly increased at the site of pollen germination before pollen tube extension. Intriguingly, GFP-SYP125 fluorescence was also observed on the opposite side of the potential germination site (Fig. 5, Movie S1). [[FIGURE]]  Differential interference contrast microscopy revealed that hydration of the pollen grain occurred within 5 min after pollination. Just after hydration, the Ca2+ concentration in the cytosol ([Ca2+]cyt) was highest in the center of the pollen grain, but subsequently [Ca2+]cyt increased at the potential germination sites. At 14 min after pollination, [Ca2+]cyt was concentrated at the site of contact with the papilla cell. During pollen germination, tagRFP-SYP125 fluorescence was concentrated at the same potential germination site. This accumulation pattern was completely consistent with [Ca2+]cyt (Fig. 5, Movie S2). In vitro pollen germination requires the presence of Ca2+. In the pollen grain, [Ca2+]cyt was increased at the potential germination site after hydration, and a tip-focused gradient of [Ca2+]cyt was formed before germination (Iwano et al. CITATION). In this study, we found the existence of strong correlation between the formation of tip-focused Ca2+ gradient and GFP-SYP125 fluorescence before germination, suggesting that the establishment of SYP125-dependent polarized exocytosis to the germination site is required [Ca2+]cyt gradient before germination. To improve this possibility, a future experiment needed to be performed to clarify the possibility that Ca2+ channel blockers La3+ or Gd3+ treatment would affect the tip-focused GFP-SYP125 accumulation. We also found that polarized distribution of SYP124 and SYP125 is F-actin dependent. We previously reported that root-hair tip-focused accumulation of SYP123 and SYP121 is also F-actin dependent (Ichikawa et al. CITATION). These results suggest that focal accumulation of SYP12s is F-actin dependent during tip growth of the cell in Arabidopsis. The Ca2+ signaling is known to induce organization of actin filaments. The connection between Ca2+ and actin filament is mediated by various actin-biding proteins including Annexin5 (Zhu et al. CITATION), ABP41 (Wang et al. CITATION) and VILLIN5 (Zhang et al. CITATION). Furthermore, organization of actin filaments is known to promote vesicle trafficking for pollen tube elongation (Chen et al. CITATION). Therefore, the establishment of SYP125 polarity coincident with the Ca2+ gradient might be dependent on the actin cytoskeleton and actin-binding proteins. In fact, an actin family protein was isolated with SYP12 family proteins in an IP-MS analysis (Fujiwara et al. CITATION). In future studies, an analysis of the spatiotemporal dynamics of Ca2+, actin and SNAREs is needed to clarify the mechanism of Ca2+-dependent pollen tube elongation mediated by these SNAREs. M. Ichikawa performed the experiments and analyzed the data; M. Iwano assisted live cell imaging of pollen germination. M.H.S. designed the experiments and supervised the work and wrote the paper.
!~MM~!  Arabidopsis thaliana accession Columbia-0 (Col-0) and the transgenic Arabidopsis plants were grown at 23 °C under continuous light. Generation of SYP124p::GFP-SYP124, SYP125p::GFP-SYP125 and SYP131p::GFP-SYP131 transgenic plants was reported previously (Enami et al. CITATION). To generate the SYP125p::tagRFP-SYP125 construct, we used the fluorescent tagging of full-length proteins method described by Tian et al. (CITATION). About 2000-bp upstream of the SYP125 coding sequence, a tagRFP sequence with the GGSG linker and the SYP125 open reading frame followed by 1000 bp of the downstream sequence was amplified by PCR, and the amplified fragments were conjugated with triple-template PCR (TT-PCR). The conjugated fragment was subcloned into pENTR/D-TOPO (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA). The construct was verified by sequencing and then was transferred into the binary vector pGWB401 (Nakagawa et al. CITATION) with LR clonase II (Invitrogen). The resultant binary vector was introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 by electroporation, and subsequently Arabidopsis wild-type (Col-0) plants were transformed with A. tumefaciens by the floral dip method (Clough and Bent CITATION). Screening of the transgenic plants was performed on 1/2 Murashige and Skoog medium plates containing 50 μg/ml kanamycin. To generate transgenic plants expressing both SYP124p::GFP-SYP124 and SYP125p::GFP-SYP125 or Lat52p::Yellow Cameleon 3.6 (Iwano et al. CITATION), we crossed these transgenic plants and screening of the double transgenic plants was performed with confocal microscopy. Total RNAs were extracted from seedlings, leaves, stems, flowers, buds, stamens and pistils using the RNeasy Mini Kit (Qiagen). The developmental stage of each sampled flower was determined on the basis of bud size (Smyth et al. CITATION). Reverse transcription (RT) was performed for 1 h at 42 °C using AMV Reverse Transcriptase XL (Takara) with an oligo-d(T)20 primer and 0.5–1 μg total RNA as template. After the RT reaction, 1 μl of the reaction mixture was used for PCR. Primer pairs used in the RT-PCR are listed in Table S1. Green fluorescent protein (GFP) and tagRFP fluorescence signals and bright-field images were captured using a confocal laser-scanning microscope (Eclipse E600 with C1si-Ready, Nikon). The conditions used for pollen germination and pollen tube growth were as described by Boavida and McCormick (CITATION). The endocytosis marker FM 4-64 (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR, USA) was applied at a final concentration of 4 μM for 5 min before confocal microscopic observation. An actin polymerizing inhibitor, Latrunculin-B (Calbiochem) was applied at a final concentration of 4 μM. To measure the fluorescence of the PM and the cytoplasm in pollen tube, the EZ-C1 software was used (Nikon). Staining with 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) was performed as described by Park et al. (CITATION). A few anthers were collected from flower buds corresponding with flower stage 10 (Smyth et al. CITATION). These anthers were mounted on a glass microscope slide and were opened by using a needle then gently applied the DAPI staining solution to pollens. For live cell imaging of Ca2+ dynamics and GFP fluorescence in pollen, a non-pollinated wild-type (WT) pistil was mounted on a coverslip and fixed, and then a pollen grain from a transgenic plant was placed on a papilla cell using a micromanipulator (Iwano et al. CITATION). Fluorescence from SYP125 and the yellow chameleon protein (a [Ca2+] indicator) was monitored using a spectral imaging fluorescence microscope system (LSM510 META, Carl Zeiss).
