!~ABS~! Plant roots secrete a significant portion of their assimilated carbon into the rhizosphere. The putative sugar transporter SWEET2 is highly expressed in Arabidopsis roots. Expression patterns of SWEET2–β-glucuronidase fusions confirmed that SWEET2 accumulates highly in root cells and thus may contribute to sugar secretion, specifically from epidermal cells of the root apex. SWEET2–green fluorescent protein fusions localized to the tonoplast, which engulfs the major sugar storage compartment. Functional analysis of SWEET2 activity in yeast showed low uptake activity for the glucose analog 2-deoxyglucose, consistent with a role in the transport of glucose across the tonoplast. Loss-of-function sweet2 mutants showed reduced tolerance to excess glucose, lower glucose accumulation in leaves, and 15–25% higher glucose-derived carbon efflux from roots, suggesting that SWEET2 has a role in preventing the loss of sugar from root tissue. SWEET2 root expression was induced more than 10-fold during Pythium infection. Importantly, sweet2 mutants were more susceptible to the oomycete, showing impaired growth after infection. We propose that root-expressed vacuolar SWEET2 modulates sugar secretion, possibly by reducing the availability of glucose sequestered in the vacuole, thereby limiting carbon loss to the rhizosphere. Moreover, the reduced availability of sugar in the rhizosphere due to SWEET2 activity contributes to resistance to Pythium.
!~RES~! Arabidopsis roots can take up sugars into the cytosol, and removal of external supply leads to rapid elimination of sugars from the cytosol, either by catabolism, compartmentation or efflux (Deuschle et al., CITATION; Chaudhuri et al., CITATION; Yamada et al., CITATION). To explore whether sugars or their products can efflux from roots, we supplied radiotracer-labeled Glc to roots and analyzed the percentage of secreted [14C]-compounds relative to total Glc uptake in Arabidopsis seedlings. Seedlings grown in sugar-free media (–Suc) took up significantly larger amounts of [14C]-Glc compared with those grown in the presence of 1% Suc (+Suc; Figure S1a in the Supporting Information), an effect that could either be due to feedback inhibition or to competition from invertase-derived hexose pools in the apoplasm of Suc-grown plants. Similar amounts of [14C]-labeled compounds were secreted from seedlings in both media (Figure S1b), but the percentage of exported Glc-derived [14C] was greatly increased from 10% for seedlings grown without Suc to 45% in seedlings previously exposed to Suc (Figure S1c). Similarly, approximately 15% of the total [14C]-Glc that had been taken up was exported from roots of mature plants when grown without additional sugars (Figure 1). The percentage of [14C] exported from Arabidopsis seedlings and mature roots was similar, indicating that roots are the main source of carbon efflux. While it has been possible to determine cytosolic Glc and Suc levels in cells from axenically grown Arabidopsis roots (Deuschle et al., CITATION; Chaudhuri et al., CITATION), we do not have information on cytosolic sugar levels of soil-grown plants. Since sugars, particularly Glc, are major components detected in root exudates and the apoplasmic compartment (Bacilio-Jiménez et al., CITATION; Kamilova et al., CITATION; Voitsekhovskaja et al., CITATION), sugars are the most likely form of exported [14C]-labeled compounds measured here. We hypothesize that microbiota will rapidly take up and metabolize sugars secreted by the plant, thereby generating a steep gradient that favors sugar efflux via facilitative transporters. Sugar biosensors may be suitable tools for determining the exudates more directly. [[FIGURE]] To study transporters potentially involved in the efflux of sugars from roots, we characterized the root-expressed SWEET2. Quantitative reverse transcription (qRT)-PCR showed that SWEET2 mRNA was expressed in roots and aerial organs at all developmental stages tested (Figure S2a). The ubiquitous pattern of SWEET2 expression is consistent with the steady-state expression profile from the Arabidopsis eFP Browser (Figure S2b) (Winter et al., CITATION). Since it is known that SWEET16 and -17 genes are expressed in both shoots and roots, while the respective proteins predominantly accumulate in roots (Guo et al., CITATION), we characterized transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing a translational GUS-fusion of SWEET2 containing all introns driven by the native SWEET2 promoter (SWEET2–GUS). In 7-day-old seedlings, SWEET2 promoter-derived GUS activity was high in roots (Figure 2a), particularly the root cap, root tip (Figure 2b), root hairs and epidermis of mature regions (Figure 2c). Low levels were observed in the root elongation zone (Figure 2b). A similar expression pattern was observed in 2-week-old seedlings (Figure 2d) and in transgenic Arabidopsis with a transcriptional PSWEET2:GUS construct (Figure S3a–c). In soil-grown mature plants, SWEET2 protein was high in roots and low in aerial tissues (Figure S3d). After extended staining (2–6 h), some GUS activity was detected in leaves (Figure S3e–g) and flower organs (Figure S3h). Little expression was observed in young siliques (Figure S3i) or seeds (Figure S3j). Together, the predominant and significant accumulation of SWEET2–GUS fusion proteins in roots indicates that SWEET2 may contribute to sugar transport in roots. [[FIGURE]] To examine the subcellular localization of SWEET2, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants stably expressing translational GFP fusions of SWEET2 (SWEET2–GFP) driven by the native SWEET2 promoter. The SWEET2–GFP fusions predominantly localized to the tonoplast of root tip cells (Figure 2e), not coinciding with the plasma membrane. Likewise, in mature root cells, SWEET2–GFP localized to the vacuolar membrane (Figure S4). A tonoplast-specific localization of SWEET2–GFP was also observed in isolated mesophyll protoplasts (Figures 2e and S4). Green fluorescence lined the inside of FM4-64-stained plasma membranes (Figure 2e), but lined chloroplasts on the side that faces the vacuole (Figure S4). Together, dominant fluorescence of SWEET2–GFP fusion proteins on the tonoplast suggest that SWEET2 may function in vacuolar sugar transport. Multiple SWEETs have been shown to mediate Glc or Suc transport (Chen, CITATION). To determine whether SWEET2 transports sugars, SWEET2 was expressed in the yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) mutant YSL2-1, which lacks all endogenous hexose transporters and extracellular invertase but retains the cytosolic invertase, allowing it to grow only on medium containing maltose, but not Glu (Figure 3a, left and middle). Expression of the yeast hexose transporter HXT5 can recover the mutant YSL2-1 growth on Glc-containing medium (Figure 3a, middle) (Reifenberger et al., CITATION). As one may expect from a transporter that localizes to the tonoplast in yeast (Figure 3b), SWEET2 did not complement the growth deficiency of YSL2-1 on Glc-containing medium (Figure 3a, middle). Also Frc and galactose (Gal) did not support detectable growth (Figure S5a). SWEET2–GFP was not detected at significant levels at the yeast plasma membrane (Figure 3b). Similarly, the rice homologs OsSWEET2a and -b did not complement a hexose transport-deficient yeast mutant (Yuan et al., CITATION). OsSWEET2b was also found to localize to the tonoplast (Tao et al., CITATION). The poorly metabolizable 2-deoxyglucose (DOG) has been used as a sensitive tool for detecting sugar analog transport activity (Ibberson et al., CITATION). YSL2-1 cells transformed with an empty vector can grow on medium supplemented with 0.2% DOG (Figure 3a, right). By contrast, DOG inhibited growth in cells expressing HXT5 (Figure 3a, right). Yeast cells expressing SWEET2 showed DOG-dependent growth inhibition compared with cells expressing the empty vector (Figure 3a, right), especially on medium buffered at neutral pH (pH 7), indicating that SWEET2 can transport DOG. [[FIGURE]] Since biased codon usage may reduce heterologous protein expression (Gustafsson et al., CITATION; Feng et al., CITATION), we examined the growth of yeast cells expressing a codon-optimized SWEET2 gene (SWEET2syn). However, expression of SWEET2syn also did not allow us to detect hexose transport capacity (Figures 3a and S5a). Transport activity was also not observed in radiotracer studies in Xenopus oocytes (Figure S5b). It is noteworthy that the rice ortholog OsSWEET2b, which also localized to the tonoplast, mediated Glc transport activity when reconstituted in lipid vesicles, supporting the notion that SWEET2 is a tonoplast hexose transporter (Tao et al., CITATION). High concentrations of Glc can result in non-enzymatic glycosylation, which damages critical proteins and inhibits growth, unless the excess reducing sugars are sequestered into the vacuole (Slewinski, CITATION). If SWEET2 can transport excess Glc into vacuoles, as indicated by the yeast growth assays (Figure 3a), reduced expression of SWEET2 may affect plant growth under excess Glc. To test this hypothesis, we identified Arabidopsis sweet2 insertion mutants (sweet2-1, sweet2-2 and sweet2-3; with T-DNA insertions in the first intron, second intron and fifth exon, respectively) (Figure S6a, Methods S1). Full-length SWEET2 transcripts were not detected in the homozygous mutants, but were present in the segregating wild type isolated from the mutant populations (Col-TDNA) (Figure S6b). While no phenotypic differences were observed at low levels of Glc (0% and 1%), a significant reduction in total leaf area of sweet2 seedlings was observed in the presence of 2.5–5% Glc compared with the segregating wild-type (Figure 4a). SWEET2 thus appears to ameliorate Glc toxicity, supporting a key function in vacuolar sequestration of Glc in Arabidopsis roots. [[FIGURE]] Disruption of the uptake of Glc into vacuoles is expected to reduce sugar storage capacity. We therefore analyzed the sugar content of mature leaves of 7–8-week-old soil-grown plants. The Glc content was significantly decreased in sweet2-1 mutant leaves compared with the segregating wild type (Figure 4b). The amounts of other sugars (Frc, Gal, Suc) were also reduced. A reduction in sugar content was also observed in leaves of sweet2–3, although to a smaller degree. The significant contribution of SWEET2 to Glc accumulation under both excess Glc and normal growth conditions is consistent with a role for SWEET2 as an importer of Glc into vacuoles for transient storage. Since Glc is a major component of root exudates (Bacilio-Jiménez et al., CITATION; Kamilova et al., CITATION) and SWEET2 proteins are present at high levels in root epidermal cells (Figure 2b,c), we investigated whether altered expression of SWEET2 affects Glc efflux activity from roots (Figure S1). Seedlings were pre-loaded with 1 mm [14C]-Glc for 10 min and then transferred to fresh medium for 20 min. Glc radiotracers remaining in seedlings or [14C] exported into the medium were analyzed. Although total Glc uptake (remaining plus exported) was similar in the wild type and mutants (Figure 5a), the percentage of exported Glc-derived [14C] increased by 10–20% in all sweet2 mutants (Figure 5b). However, when incubated with [14C]-labeled Gal, a C-4 epimer of Glc, no difference in the percentage of carbon efflux between wild type and sweet2 mutants was observed (Figure S7). Efflux kinetics were measured to exclude the possibility of [14C] leakage due to damage. Seedlings of sweet2 mutants showed significantly increased efflux percentages compared with wild-type seedlings (Col and Col-TDNA) (Figure 5c). The increased Glc-derived [14C] efflux from sweet2 implicates a role for SWEET2 in Glc uptake into vacuoles, which serve as a buffer that constrains sugar efflux from roots. [[FIGURE]] Since sugars exported from roots may serve as carbon supply for rhizospheric microbiota (Kiers et al., CITATION), such as the abundant, soil-borne pathogen, Pythium spp. (Van Buyten and Höfte, CITATION), we hypothesized that root sugar efflux modulated by SWEET2 may affect susceptibility to root pathogens. We first examined whether SWEET2 expression is affected by infection of the common root pathogen P. irregulare. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis showed that, compared with the other 15 Arabidopsis SWEET genes, SWEET2 and SWEET10 transcripts were dramatically induced by more than 15- and 100-fold, respectively, 12 h after infection (Figure 6a). SWEET2 and SWEET10 transcript levels were induced by more than 30- and 1000-fold 48 h after infection. SWEET10 transcript levels were low relative to Actin2 and were less than a thousandth of the level of SWEET2 (Figure 6b). Both the abundance and high induction of SWEET2 transcripts in Pythium-infected roots suggested the possibility that SWEET2 may play a role this root–pathogen interaction. [[FIGURE]] To investigate whether local accumulation of SWEET2 correlates with sites of infection, we analyzed GUS activity in Arabidopsis expressing SWEET2–GUS fusions 24 h after Pythium infection. Compared with non-infected controls (Figure 6c,d), GUS activity increased in infected lateral roots, particularly in the tips (arrows) and elongation regions (Figure 6e,f). Induction of SWEET2–GFP was also observed in roots 2 h after inoculation (Figure 6g,h). Moreover, SWEET2–GFP fusions localized predominantly to vacuolar membranes in root tip cells (Figure 6i–k), indicating that Pythium pathogenesis induces the accumulation of SWEET2 at the tonoplast of root cells that are in close vicinity to the pathogen. To test whether SWEET2 contributes to susceptibility, we examined the severity of root rot in sweet2 mutants 23 days after Pythium infection. The jar1-1 (jasmonate resistant 1) mutant, having an impaired jasmonate signaling pathway, was used as a positive control for disease assessment due to its high susceptibility to Pythium (Staswick et al., CITATION). Compared with wild-type plants, jar1-1 contained significantly higher numbers of oospores upon co-culture (Figure 7a,b). Similarly, significantly more oospores were observed in sweet2 mutant roots (Figure 7a,b). Moreover, the relative dry weight of infected sweet2 roots was 15–30% lower than that of infected wild-type plants (Figure 7c). Infected sweet2–3 had twice as many wilted and yellowing leaves as wild-type plants (Col and Col-Vector; Figure 7d). Increased leaf wilting and senescence was also observed in sweet2–1 and sweet2–2 (Figure 7e). Increased oospore colonization and susceptibility of sweet2 mutants to Pythium infection indicates that SWEET2 plays a positive role in the defense mechanism against Pythium pathogenesis, likely by limiting sugar efflux to the medium/rhizosphere. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana plants and mutants were all Columbia ecotype (Col-0). Generally, surface-sterilized seeds (30% CLOROX bleach and 0.1% Triton X100, v/v) were sown onto potting media or solid ½MS agar medium [half-strength Murashige and Skoog basal salt mixture (DuchefaBiochemie, https://www.-duchefa-biochemie.com/), 0.1% (w/v) 2-(N-morpholino)-ethanesul-fonic acid, 1.5% agar for solid media, pH = 5.5–5.6] containing 1% Suc. Except where mentioned otherwise, plants were grown under long-day conditions in a growth room (22/18°C day and night temperature, 16-h light/8-h dark regime of approximately 100 μmol m−2 sec−1 illumination). For the isolation of mesophyll protoplasts, plants were grown in potting media under short-day conditions (10-h light/14-h dark regime, approximately 90 μmol m−2 sec−1 illumination) for 4–5 weeks before isolation. For growth under excess Glc, seeds were grown on ½MS solid medium supplemented with 1% (w/v) Suc for 4 days before similarly sized seedlings were transferred to ½MS medium supplemented with 0%, 1%, 2.5% or 5% Glc. Fourteen days after transfer, all leaves were placed on transparent tape, scanned and measured by Image J (version 1.46) for area determination. For sugar content analysis in mature rosette leaves, plants were grown in short-day conditions for 3 weeks and then transferred to long-day conditions for another 4–5 weeks to allow flowering before harvest. For qRT-PCR analysis in Pythium infected roots, axenic Arabidopsis seedlings were grown for 7 days with a mesh on MS solid medium containing 1% Suc. Seedlings were then transferred to MS liquid medium containing 1–2% Suc and cultured for 16 days. Axenic roots were harvested 3, 12, 24 or 48 h after inoculation with a mixture of Pythium mycelium and oospores. For GFP and GUS analyses of Pythium-infected seedlings, seedlings were grown on ½MS agar for 14 days and transferred to liquid ½MS medium for 1 day before Pythium infection. Seedlings were infected with Pythium for 2 or 24 h for GFP or GUS observations, respectively. For Pythium infection in soil-grown plants, Arabidopsis plants were grown in Jiffy Pots (5 cm diameter, 6 cm height) for 3 weeks under short-day conditions. Randomly selected individual plants were then transplanted into single pots containing Pythium-infested soils (see below). Root rot disease was assessed by determining the number of wilting and/or yellowing rosette leaves at 21–23 day post-inoculation. The abundance of oospores inside root tissues was observed by staining with acid-fuchsin lactophenol. Dry weights of roots and shoots were also determined. The method was adapted from Pratelli et al. (CITATION), with some modifications, using ½MS medium. Briefly, 7–9-day-old Arabidopsis seedlings were grown in 3 ml of liquid medium with or without 1% Suc for 2 days. Seedlings were then transferred to 900 μl of fresh medium and 100 μl of medium containing 10 mm Glc. [14C]-Glc (0.4 μCi; GE Healthcare, http://www3.gehealthcare.com/en/global_gateway) was added into the solutions for 10 min, after which seedlings were washed three times with 5 ml of ice-cold 0.2 mm CaSO4. For efflux analyses, seedlings were subsequently incubated with 1 ml fresh medium for 20 min. For time-dependent efflux analyses, medium was collected at indicated periods and another 1 ml of fresh medium was added. Radiotracer flux was analyzed as described in Pratelli et al. (CITATION). Total RNA was isolated from roots of 23-day-old liquid cultured seedlings or 7-day-old whole seedlings grown on ½MS agar plates using Trisure (Bioline, http://www.bioline.com/) reagent as instructed. Then PCR and real-time quantitative PCR were performed as described (Guo et al., CITATION). Expression of Arabidopsis Actin2 (At3G18780) was used to determine the relative expression levels (1000 × 2CtSWEET − CtActin2), where Ct represents the threshold cycle. The relative fold change was determined by 2(CtSWEET,control − CtActin2,control) − (CtSWEET, test − CtActin2, test). Gene-specific primers are listed in Table S1. All amplifications were performed using Phusion polymerase (New England Biolabs, https://www.neb.com/). To generate the PSWEET2:GUS transcriptional construct, a SWEET2 promoter fragment containing the 5′ untranslated region (UTR) (2746 bp) was amplified from Arabidopsis genomic DNA with primers 5-PSWT2-BP and 3-PSWT2-BP. The fragment was cloned into the binary vector pWUGW, which contains a GUS reporter gene, using GATEWAY cloning (Life Technologies, https://www.lifetechnologies.com/). To generate PSWEET2-SWEET2–GUS/GFP translational constructs, the full-length SWEET2 genomic sequence, including UTRs and introns, was amplified with primers SWT2-5-UTR-BP and SWT2-3-UTR-BP. The resulting 2200-bp fragment was first cloned into the binary vector pMDC32 (Curtis and Grossniklaus, CITATION) using Gateway cloning to generate the pMDC32-SWEET2 plasmid. The promoter region from the PSWEET2:GUS construct was amplified with primers 5-PSWT2 and 3-PSWT2 and subcloned into pMDC32-SWEET2 via KpnI and BamHI sites replacing the 35S promoter. The full PSWEET2-SWEET2 genomic fragment was then amplified, digested and subcloned into the SacII and PstI sites of pUTKan or pGTkan, harboring the GUS or GFP reporter gene, respectively. Sequences of primers are listed in Table S1. Arabidopsis plants were transformed using Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58 PGV3850 and the floral dip method (Clough and Bent, CITATION). Transformants were identified on ½MS medium containing 50 μg ml−1 kanamycin. For each construct, six independent heterozygous transgenic lines were examined for consistent expression patterns. Three representative homozygous lines were further analyzed. GUS reporter gene activity was analyzed by histochemical staining as described (Guo et al., CITATION). The incubation times were 30 min for whole seedlings, 6 h for leaves, 2 h for flowers, silique and seeds, and 1 h for soil-grown plants. Fluorescence imaging of SWEET2-GFP was performed on a Carl Zeiss LSM780 confocal microscope (Instrument Development Center, National Cheng Kung University) as described previously (Guo et al., CITATION). The Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts were isolated as described in Yoo et al. (CITATION). The cDNA fragments of SWEET2 (711 bp) were amplified from Arabidopsis cDNA using Phusion polymerase (New England Biolabs) with gene-specific primers 5-SWT2-ATG-BP and 3-SWT2-WTA-BP (Table S1). The cDNA fragments were first cloned into the pDONR221-f1 vector and then transferred to the pDRf1-GW vector (Loqué et al., CITATION) using Gateway technology, resulting in the pDRf1-GW-SWEET2 construct. The positive control pDRf1-GW-HXT5 was constructed as described (Chen et al., CITATION). The Saccharomyces cerevisiae mutant YSL2-1 was transformed using the LiAc method (Gietz and Schiestl, CITATION). YSL2-1 was generated from the hexose transport-deficient S. cerevisiae strain EBY.VW1000 [stl1Δ::loxP/agt1Δ::loxP/ydl247wΔ::loxP/yjr160cΔ::loxP] (Wieczorke et al., CITATION). In brief, the 740-bp yeast SUC2 promoter region and the first 80 bp comprising the endoplasmic reticulum-targeting sequence of the SUC2 gene (which encodes both a cytosolic and a secreted invertases), was replaced with the 381-bp ScHXT7 promoter, to produce a strain that constitutively produces a secreted invertase but retains a cytosolic invertase (Taussig and Carlson, CITATION). Transformants were selected on synthetic deficient media lacking uracil (SDM-Ura; 0.67% yeast nitrogen base without amino acid, 25 g L−1 ammonium sulfate, 2% maltose, 1% agar and 0.02% of histidine, leucine and tryptophan). The potential clones were further verified by PCR. SWEET2 cDNA codon usage was optimized for Saccharomyces cerevisiae expression (Puigbò et al., CITATION) and was re-synthesized by MDBio (http://0800072222.tw/) (referred to as SWEET2syn). The SWEET2syn fragment was cloned into pDRf1-GW as above. The growth analyses on plates were performed as described (Chen et al., CITATION). Ground, freeze-dried Arabidopsis rosette leaf material (approximately 0.5 g fresh weight) was serially extracted twice in 1 ml of 80%, 20% of ethanol, and MQ water. During each extraction, samples were heated at 80°C for 10 min, placed on ice for 2 min, and centrifuged at 15 000 g for 5 min. Desalting of samples (500 μl) and chromatography analysis of soluble sugars were performed as described (Peters and Keller, CITATION; Guo et al., CITATION). Pythium irregulare strain 110305 was grown and maintained as described (Huffaker et al., CITATION) and kindly provided by Dr Clarence A. Ryan [Institute of Biological Chemistry, Washington State University (deceased)]. For infection of plants grown in axenic liquid culture, 1-week-old mycelium-containing plugs taken from water agar were grown on ½PDA (potato dextrose agar 19.5 g and Bacto-agar 3.75 g dissolved in 500 ml water). One-week-old P. irregulare cultures were collected and ground with a mortar and pestle to yield a uniform suspension. Aliquots (300 μl) of the suspension (about 2.5 × 103 propagules) or water (used as a control) were added to the growth medium of axenically grown plants. For infection of seedlings, 4-day-old mycelium plugs from ½PDA were inoculated on PDA plates for 4 days. Plugs from PDA were inoculated on V8 agar plates and incubated at 28°C under dark conditions for 10 days. The V8 agar plugs were transferred into sterile distilled water and further incubated for 10 days under dark conditions. The cultures were blended in distilled water. The homogenized mycelium and oospore mixture was filtered and collected by centrifugation (4500 g for 10 min). The fungal pellet was suspended in distilled water, and the concentration of oospores was determined using a hemocytometer. Aliquots (1 ml) of the suspension (about 5 × 103 propagules) or water (a control) were added to the liquid ½MS medium containing one plant per well. For infection of soil-grown plants, soil was mixed with sliced PDA mycelium plugs and incubated for 2 days at room temperature (approximately 22°C) to produce uniformly infested soils (Sohrabi et al., CITATION). For the control treatment, sliced PDA pieces without Pythium mycelium were mixed with soils. Infected root tips were transferred into a 1.5-ml centrifuge tube, covered with 0.05% acid-fuchsin lactophenol solution, heated (95°C) for 3 min and then incubated at room temperature (approximately 22°C) for at least 5 min. The staining solution was removed, and distilled water was used for de-staining. Stained samples were mounted in 50% glycerol and visualized under the microscope for oospore quantification in a zone approximately 10 mm behind the root tips.
