!~ABS~! Limited knowledge of how plants regulate their growth and metabolism in response to drought and reduced soil water potential has impeded efforts to improve stress tolerance. Increased expression of the membrane-associated protein At14a-like1 (AFL1) led to increased growth and accumulation of the osmoprotective solute proline without negative effects on unstressed plants. Conversely, inducible RNA-interference suppression of AFL1 decreased growth and proline accumulation during low water potential while having no effect on unstressed plants. AFL1 overexpression lines had reduced expression of many stress-responsive genes, suggesting AFL1 may promote growth in part by suppression of negative regulatory genes. AFL1 interacted with the endomembrane proteins protein disulfide isomerase 5 (PDI5) and NAI2, with the PDI5 interaction being particularly increased by stress. PDI5 and NAI2 are negative regulatory factors, as pdi5, nai2, and pdi5-2nai2-3 mutants had increased growth and proline accumulation at low water potential. AFL1 also interacted with Adaptor protein2-2A (AP2-2A), which is part of a complex that recruits cargo proteins and promotes assembly of clathrin-coated vesicles. AFL1 colocalization with clathrin light chain along the plasma membrane, together with predictions of AFL1 structure, were consistent with a role in vesicle formation or trafficking. Fractionation experiments indicated that AFL1 is a peripheral membrane protein associated with both plasma membrane and endomembranes. These data identify classes of proteins (AFL1, PDI5, and NAI2) not previously known to be involved in drought signaling. AFL1-predicted structure, protein interactions, and localization all indicate its involvement in previously uncharacterized membrane-associated drought sensing or signaling mechanisms.
!~RES~! Although AFL1 contains a small integrin-similarity domain, the overall structure was clearly different from integrins ( SI Appendix, Fig. S1A , see following text). This structure was intriguing, as we know little of membrane-associated proteins involved in abiotic stress. In previous microarray experiments, AFL1 gene expression was induced 30-fold by exposure to low ψw for 96 h (CITATION). RT-PCR verified a strong induction of AFL1 expression ( SI Appendix, Fig. S1B ), and a stress-increased protein of appropriate size was detected using a commercial antibody recognizing β1-integrin ( SI Appendix, Fig. S1C ). Antisera specifically recognizing the N-terminal domain of AFL1 confirmed that AFL1 protein abundance was dramatically increased by low ψw ( SI Appendix, Fig. S1D ). To test the function of AFL1, we generated transgenic lines with 35S promoter-driven ectopic expression of AFL1 fused to either an N-terminal enhanced yellow florescent protein (eYFP) or a C-terminal FLAG tag (hereafter referred to as overexpression lines; AFL1 O.E. lines). Both types of AFL1 O.E. lines had essentially identical phenotypes, and combined data from both are shown in subsequent figures. Transgenic lines with dexamethasone (DEX)-inducible RNAi knockdown of AFL1 (AFL1 K.D. lines) were also generated. Quantitative RT-PCR and immunoblotting verified increased or decreased AFL1 expression in the O.E. and K.D. lines, respectively ( SI Appendix, Fig. S2). There are no publically available transfer-DNA mutants for AFL1. When seedlings were transferred to either a moderate (−0.7 MPa) or more severe (−1.2 MPa) low ψw stress, AFL1 O.E. lines had dramatically increased (more than 60%) root elongation, increased seedling dry weight (FIG-REF), and increased fresh weight ( SI Appendix, Fig. S3A ). The plants were also visually larger than wild-type (FIG-REF). AFL1 overexpression had no apparent negative effect, and even increased growth, in the absence of stress (FIG-REF). Similar results of increased rosette weight and size were seen in AFL1 O.E. plants subjected to controlled soil drying (FIG-REF and SI Appendix, Fig. S4). Conversely, growth of AFL1 K.D. lines at low ψw was decreased by more than 40% after the addition of DEX to activate RNAi suppression of AFL1 (FIG-REF and SI Appendix, Fig. S3B ). RNAi suppression of AFL1 had no effect on growth in the control (FIG-REF and SI Appendix, Fig. S3B ), and addition of DEX had no effect on an empty vector control line ( SI Appendix, Fig. S3C ). AFL1 O.E. lines also had higher accumulation of the osmoprotective solute proline, whereas AFL1 K.D. lines had reduced proline across a range of low ψw severities (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] AFL1 O.E. also modified the transcriptional response to low ψw, which in wild-type included both up- and down-regulation of many genes (Dataset S1). The predominant effect of AFL1 O.E. lines was to suppress gene expression: 525 genes were down-regulated by AFL1 O.E. lines in control (Dataset S1), and 722 genes at low ψw (Dataset S1), compared with 172 genes up-regulated by AFL1 O.E. lines in control (Dataset S1) and 398 at low ψw (Dataset S1). Many of these were genes already stress down-regulated in wild-type (FIG-REF). Expression of several genes down-regulated in AFL1 O.E. lines was verified by quantitative RT-PCR ( SI Appendix, Fig. S5). Gene ontology terms enriched in the AFL1 down-regulated genes include transcription factors, cell wall, defense response, oxidative metabolism, and membrane/endomembrane proteins (Dataset S1). Gene ontology terms enriched in genes up-regulated by AFL1 overexpression include protein disulfide oxidoreductase activity and redox-related metabolism, lipid metabolism, and cytokinin metabolism (Dataset S1). Interestingly, we found that AFL1 O.E. lines blocked stress induction of RD21 (FIG-REF), a procell death protease, the trafficking and activity of which are regulated by protein disulfide isomerase 5 (PDI5) (CITATION). Overall, the growth and proline data indicated a key role of AFL1 in drought resistance, whereas the gene expression data raised the possibility that AFL1 may restrict the expression of genes that suppress growth during low ψw stress. To understand AFL1 function, we identified interacting proteins using several methods ( SI Appendix, Fig. S6). Yeast two-hybrid library screening using the N-terminal domain of AFL1 as bait identified the ER chaperone PDI5 (CITATION), the ER body protein NAI2 (CITATION), and the NAI2-related protein TSK-associating1 (TSA1), as well as partial clones containing the C-terminal domain of AFL1 and At14a. PDI5 and NAI2 were also identified in AFL1 immunoprecipitates (Dataset S1). Additional putative AFL1-interacting proteins were identified by immunoprecipitation including AP2-2a, part of a protein complex involved in clathrin-coated vesicle formation (CITATION), as well as other vesicle transport components and cytoskeleton-related proteins (Dataset S1). Mating-based split-ubiquitin (mbSUS) assays using full-length AFL1 as bait confirmed interaction with PDI5, NAI2, TSA1, and AP2-2a (FIG-REF). Also consistent with the yeast two-hybrid screening, AFL1 strongly interacted with itself. Dynamin (DRP1A) and the ER protein HAP6 were identified in AFL1 immunoprecipitates but did not interact with AFL1 in mbSUS. Possibly, DRP1A and HAP6 indirectly associate with AFL1 via larger protein complexes (or were nonspecific contaminants of the immunoprecipitates). [[FIGURE]] AFL1 interactions were assayed in planta, using ratiometric bimolecular fluorescence complementation (rBiFC), which allows the BiFC signal to be normalized relative to a constitutively expressed RFP reporter (CITATION). Assays were conducted by transient expression in intact seedlings (CITATION). Interestingly, AFL1 interaction with itself, PDI5, and NAI2 was promoted 8–16-fold by low ψw (FIG-REF). Western blotting of seedlings after rBiFC assay showed that the stimulated interaction of AFL1 and PDI5 in the stress treatment was unlikely to be explained by differences in protein expression (FIG-REF). Coimmunoprecipitation also consistently found more PDI5-AFL1 association after low ψw stress treatment (FIG-REF). For AFL1 interaction with NAI2, the increased rBiFC signal in the low ψw treatment could have been caused either by difference in protein expression or increased interaction (FIG-REF). The Western blot result must be interpreted with some caution, as it reflects both the number of cells expressing the BiFC constructs and the expression level in those cells. TSA1 had a very limited rBiFC interaction with AFL1, which was not stimulated by stress (FIG-REF). Thus, TSA1 may not function with AFL1 in vivo. Consistent with the mbSUS assays, no AFL1–HAP6 interaction was observed in rBiFC. Low ψw stimulation of AFL1–NAI2 and AFL1–PDI5 interactions could also be detected using another vector system ( SI Appendix, Fig. S7A ). In contrast to the PDI5–AFL1 interaction, the previously reported interaction of PDI5 with RD21 (CITATION) could be readily detected under both control and stress conditions ( SI Appendix, Fig. S7B ). AFL1–PDI5 rBiFC with coexpression of an ER marker (CITATION) showed extensive, but not complete, overlap of the signals ( SI Appendix, Fig. S8A ). Thus, AFL1–PDI5 interaction is likely to occur in the endomembrane system, but perhaps not exclusively in the ER. In leaf epidermal cells, AFL1 was found in tubule-like structures typical of ER ( SI Appendix, Fig. S8B ). The interaction experiments suggested that PDI5 and NAI2 may function with AFL1 in stress signaling occurring in the endomembrane system. Consistent with this, pdi5 and nai2 mutants ( SI Appendix, Fig. S9) had increased root elongation, dry weight, and proline (FIG-REF), with the only exception being that the effect of NAI2 was specific to the shoot. A pdi5-2nai2-3 double mutant had an even greater increase in seedling dry weight (up to 200% of wild-type) after low ψw treatment, whereas proline accumulation did not increase further, and root elongation had only the pdi5 effect (FIG-REF). These data indicated that PDI5 and NAI2 have partially overlapping roles as negative regulators of growth and proline accumulation at low ψw. Previous reports on At14a described it as a PM protein (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION), and AFL1 colocalized with FM4-64 [N-(3-Triethylammoniumpropyl)-4-(6-(4-(Diethylamino)phenyl)hexatrienyl)Pyridinium Dibromide] along the PM (FIG-REF). However, AFL1 was not evenly distributed along the PM and appeared in part as small foci along the membrane ( SI Appendix, Fig. S2F ). The strong interaction of AFL1 with AP2-2a (FIG-REF), along with AFL1 localization, raised the possibility that AFL1 may be involved in trafficking of clathrin-coated vesicles (CITATION). Consistent with this hypothesis, YFP-AFL1 colocalized with mOrange-labeled clathrin light chain (CLC) (CITATION) at distinct foci along the PM (FIG-REF and SI Appendix, Fig. S10 A and B ). Foci of AFL1 often corresponded to small foci of CLC, indicative of the early stages of endocytotic vesicle formation (FIG-REF). In other cases, AFL1–CLC colocalization could be seen at the junction between the CLC-labeled vesicle-like-particles and the PM (FIG-REF and SI Appendix, Fig. S10). Internalized CLC-labeled structures detached from the PM had little or no colocalized AFL1. Likewise, AFL1 that was diffusely localized inside the cell did not colocalize with CLC (FIG-REF). Occasionally, small puncta of colocalized AFL1 and CLC could be seen inside the cell, but this was less common. These patterns could be seen in both unstressed and stressed plants; however, AFL1–CLC colocalization (as measured by Pearson correlation coefficient, PCC) was significantly increased by stress (FIG-REF). A range of PCC values was observed. In general, images that included many large internalized CLC-labeled vesicle-like structures had lower PCC values, whereas those with more CLC along the PM had higher PCC values (examples in SI Appendix, Fig. S10B ). Bleed through between the YFP and mOrange channels was minimal ( SI Appendix, Fig. S10C ) and did not affect the results. [[FIGURE]] Tyrphostin A23, an inhibitor of clathrin-coated vesicle formation and endocytosis (CITATION), blocked the increased proline accumulation of AFL1 O.E. plants but had no effect on pdi5 or nai2 mutants (FIG-REF). This indicated that PDI5 and NAI2 affect proline accumulation by other mechanisms or act downstream of endocytosis. Tyrphostin A23 decreased the area of endosome-like particles decorated with AFL1 but had no substantial effect on AFL1 distribution along the PM or AFL1 protein levels ( SI Appendix, Fig. S11). Internalization of AFL1 from PM was investigated using Brefeldin A (BFA). BFA resulted in some accumulation of YFP-AFL1 in BFA bodies, but this was not increased by stress, and the amount of AFL1 in BFA bodies was small compared with the amount along the PM ( SI Appendix, Fig. S12). Together, the colocalization and BFA data indicated that AFL1 was associated with formation of clathrin-coated vesicles; however, AFL1 was not a major cargo protein internalized by clathrin-coated vesicles under stress. Structural modeling using several publically available resources gave additional clues to AFL1 function. ModWeb found a similarity of AFL1 to a bacterial pore-forming toxin, amphiphysin, and moesin ( SI Appendix, Fig. S13). Amphiphysin contains a Bin–Amphiphysin–reduced viability on starvation (BAR) domain that binds to sites of membrane curvature (CITATION). I-Tasser found similarity to the same bacterial protein, as well as actinin, spectrin, another BAR domain protein (Atg17–Atg31–Atg29 complex), and cell adhesion components. Similarity to actin and clathrin binding sites was also found ( SI Appendix, Fig. S14). The amphiphysin similarity is particularly interesting, as amphiphysin associates with AP2-2a at the neck of vesicles in the same complex as dynamin before the vesicle detaches from the PM (CITATION). This agrees with our observations of AFL1 interaction with AP2-2a and foci of AFL1 at and around sites of CLC concentration along the PM. The structural modeling raised questions of whether AFL1 is really a transmembrane protein, as previously suggested for At14a (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). Aqueous two-phase partitioning found that AFL1 associated with both PM and endomembrane (FIG-REF). The localization was most clear after longer low ψw treatment, when AFL1 increased and could be seen in both membrane fractions. Similar results were observed for AFL1–FLAG O.E. plants ( SI Appendix, Fig. S15). In this case, an increased amount of AFL1 in the lower fraction during stress, despite the constitutive expression, may indicate stabilization or altered turnover of AFL1. Interestingly, AFL1 was also detected in the supernatant during the initial stages of membrane fractionation ( SI Appendix, Fig. S16A ). Consideration of gel loading versus total volume of supernatant or membrane pellet indicated that most AFL1 was in the supernatant, rather than membrane pellet, and was of the higher molecular weight form ( SI Appendix, Fig. S16A ). Low salt (FIG-REF) or EDTA ( SI Appendix, Fig. S16 B and C ) washes could completely remove AFL1 from the membrane pellet. Thus, AFL1 is membrane associated but not a transmembrane protein, similar to HSC70 (CITATION). AFL1 found in the endomembrane had higher-than-expected apparent molecular weight (the predicted molecular weight of AFL1 is 41.6 kDa), indicating that AFL1 may be posttranslationally modified. The nature of this posttranslational modification, and why it was present on the endomembrane-localized AFL1 but less detected in PM fractions, is not known. We also cannot rule out more complex patterns of AFL1 cleavage and modification. PDI5 or NAI2 could be involved in AFL1 posttranslational modification in the endomembrane system or control the trafficking of AFL1. However, fractionation of pdi5-2, nai2-3, and pdi5-2nai2-3 found no substantial differences in AFL1 molecular weight distribution or total AFL1 protein amount compared with wild-type ( SI Appendix, Fig. S17 A and B ). These experiments do not rule out redundancy, for example, with other PDIs, which may obscure the role of PDI5 (or NAI2) in AFL1 modification.
!~MM~! Transgenic plants were prepared using vectors for expression of N-terminal YFP or C-terminal FLAG tagged AFL1 under control of the 35S promoter or DEX-induced RNAi suppression of AFL1. Stress treatments were performed by transferring seedlings to PEG-infused agar plates or by controlled soil drying ( SI Appendix, Materials and Methods ). Immunoprecipitation of YFP-AFL1 was performed using GFP-trap beads (Chromtek) and proteins identified by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry and database search. Yeast two-hybrid screening was performed using the ProQuest yeast two-hybrid system (Life Technologies), using a cDNA library constructed from seedlings treated at −1.2 MPa for 96 h. mbSUS assays were conducted using vectors, and yeast strains obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. BiFC assays and coimmunoprecipitation experiments were conducted using transient expression in intact Arabidopsis seedlings. Additional details are given in SI Appendix, Materials and Methods . Aqueous two-phase partitioning was performed (CITATION) with minor modifications, as described in SI Appendix, Materials and Methods . Agilent microarrays were used for analysis of wild-type and AFL1 O.E. seedlings ( SI Appendix, Materials and Methods ), and the full data set was deposited (accession number GSE62413).
