!~ABS~! Non-photosynthetic chlorophyll (Chl) proteins called water-soluble Chl-binding proteins are distributed in Brassicaceae plants. Brassica oleracea WSCP (BoWSCP) and Lepidium virginicum WSCP (LvWSCP) are highly expressed in leaves and stems, while Arabidopsis thaliana WSCP (AtWSCP) and Raphanus sativus WSCP (RshWSCP) are highly transcribed in floral organs. BoWSCP and LvWSCP exist in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) body. However, the subcellular localization of AtWSCP and RshWSCP is still unclear. To determine the subcellular localization of these WSCPs, we constructed transgenic plants expressing Venus-fused AtWSCP or RshWSCP. Open reading frames corresponding to full-length AtWSCP and RshWSCP were cloned and ligated between the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and Venus, a gene encoding a yellow fluorescent protein. We introduced the constructs into A. thaliana by the floral dip method. We succeeded in constructing a number of transformants expressing Venus-fused chimeric AtWSCP (AtWSCP::Venus) or RshWSCP (RshWSCP::Venus). We detected fluorescence derived from the chimeric proteins using a fluorescence microscope system. In cotyledons, fluorescence derived from AtWSCP::Venus and RshWSCP::Venus was detected in spindle structures. The spindle structures altered their shape to a globular form under blue light excitation. In true leaves, the number of spindle structures was drastically reduced. These observations indicate that the spindle structure was the ER body. AtWSCP and RshWSCP have the potential for ER body targeting like BoWSCP and LvWSCP.
!~RES~! The aim of this study was to reveal the subcellular localization of AtWSCP and RshWSCP. In previous studies, we characterized the subcellular localization of BoWSCP and LvWSCP by analyzing transgenic A. thaliana expressing Venus-fused chimeric BoWSCP or LvWSCP (i.e., BoWSCP::Venus or LvWSCP::Venus) and found that both chimeric proteins were located in ER bodies [[CR6], [CR8]]. Here, we constructed transgenic AtWSCP::Venus or RshWSCP::Venus. Similar to BoWSCP and LvWSCP, both AtWSCP and RshWSCP possess an N-terminal extension, which is predicted to be a signal peptide. Thus, we introduced Venus at the C-termini of AtWSCP and RshWSCP. All constructs used to generate transgenic A. thaliana are shown in Fig. [Fig1]. The correctness of the transformants (35S::AtWSCP::Venus and 35S::RshWSCP::Venus) was confirmed by PCR analysis with the primer sets AtWSCP-F or RshWSCP-F/VR and VF/VR (Fig. [Fig1]). As shown in Fig. [Fig2], we obtained a number of transformant lines.Fig. 2PCR analysis to confirm the correct insertion of cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter (35S)::AtWSCP::Venus and 35S::RshWSCP::Venus into A. thaliana. Primer sites (AtWSCP-F, RshWSCP-F, VF, and VR) are shown in Fig. [Fig1]. Actin8 was used as a control PCR analysis to confirm the correct insertion of cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter (35S)::AtWSCP::Venus and 35S::RshWSCP::Venus into A. thaliana. Primer sites (AtWSCP-F, RshWSCP-F, VF, and VR) are shown in Fig. [Fig1]. Actin8 was used as a control Figure [Fig3] shows fluorescence images of leaves at different developmental stages from the transformants. In 1-week-old cotyledons of 35S::AtWSCP::Venus and 35S::RshWSCP::Venus plants, the fluorescence from Venus was detected in spindle-shaped structures. In the true leaves, however, most of these structures had disappeared and Venus fluorescence was instead detected in the vacuole. Furthermore, the spindle-shaped structures changed shape from spindle to globular during the fluorescence microscopic analysis with the high irradiation of blue light (Fig. [Fig4]). Brassicaceae plants have a unique spindle-shaped organelle called the ER body [[CR11]]. It was reported that the ER body changes its structure to a globular form and then fuses with the vacuole under high salinity conditions [[CR18]]. Recently, Gotté et al. reported that Raphanus sativus also has the ER body and that its shape was changed by methyl jasmonate treatment [[CR19]]. We therefore concluded that AtWSCP and RshWSCP can potentially target the ER body and the vacuole like BoWSCP and LvWSCP, but they do not target chloroplasts.Fig. 3Fluorescence images of the transgenic plants. One-week-old cotyledons and 10-day-old true leaves of the T2 generation of transformants (35S::AtWSCP::Venus and 35S::RshWSCP::Venus), which were grown on 1 % agar plates containing full-strength Murashige and Skoog medium and 1 % sucrose at 22 °C under continuous light, were analyzed by fluorescence microscopy. The chimeric proteins were excited by blue light and then the fluorescence images were captured. Bar 20 µmFig. 4Time-dependent changes of the shape of the endoplasmic reticulum bodies. Fluorescence from 1-week-old cotyledons of 35S::RshWSCP::Venus was captured. Bar 20 µm Fluorescence images of the transgenic plants. One-week-old cotyledons and 10-day-old true leaves of the T2 generation of transformants (35S::AtWSCP::Venus and 35S::RshWSCP::Venus), which were grown on 1 % agar plates containing full-strength Murashige and Skoog medium and 1 % sucrose at 22 °C under continuous light, were analyzed by fluorescence microscopy. The chimeric proteins were excited by blue light and then the fluorescence images were captured. Bar 20 µm Time-dependent changes of the shape of the endoplasmic reticulum bodies. Fluorescence from 1-week-old cotyledons of 35S::RshWSCP::Venus was captured. Bar 20 µm Because AtWSCP has protease inhibitor activity [[CR20]] and accumulates in the transmitting tract in the gynoecium and silique [[CR5]], Becktas et al. hypothesized that the protease inhibitor activity of AtWSCP might be important for the formation of the transmitting tract. Note that we could not find any difference between the transformants and wild type A. thaliana. Further analysis of the AtWSCP null-mutant will provide clues to elucidate the biological function of AtWSCP.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype, Col-0) was grown on 1 % agar plates containing full-strength MS medium and 1 % sucrose at 22 °C under continuous light. Three-week-old A. thaliana was transferred from the plate to Jiffy-7 for further growth. Using a DNeasy mini kit (Qiagen, Venlo, The Netherlands), we extracted and purified genomic DNA from leaves of 2-week-old A. thaliana according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The full-length regions of AtWSCP and RshWSCP were amplified by PCR with specific primer pairs containing a restriction enzyme site: for AtWSCP, 5′-GTCGACATGAAGAATCCTTCAGTGATCTCTTTTC-3′ and 5′-CCATGGAACCCGGGAAGTATAAGTTGCTAGTAGC-3′; for RshWSCP, 5′-GTCGACATGAAGAAACCTTCAGTGACCCCT-3′ and 5′-GGATCCGTAGAATGGGAACATCCTCAGACC-3′. Note that we used the RshWSCP::pGEM-T easy vector constructed in our previous study for RshWSCP amplification [[CR7]]. The PCR products were cloned into the pGEM-T easy vector (Promega). After sequence analysis, the correct clones were digested (SalI and NcoI for the AtWSCP construct, SalI and BamHI for the RshWSCP construct) and then the DNA fragments were ligated into the same sites between the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter and Venus in a modified pBI101 vector constructed in our previous study. All constructs used to generate transgenic plants are shown in Fig. [Fig1]. We introduced the constructs into A. thaliana using the floral dip method developed by Clough and Bent [[CR17]]. Transgenic plants were selected on 1 % agar plates containing 1 % sucrose, MS medium, 50 µg ml−1 kanamycin and 250 µg ml−1 cefotaxime sodium salt. Transformation of genes into A. thaliana was confirmed by PCR analysis with specific primer pairs (Fig. [Fig1]). The sequences of the primers used to detect Venus (i.e., VF and VR) and Actin8 were described in our previous manuscript [[CR8]].Fig. 1Schematic image of the control and modified Venus constructs for subcellular localization analysis of Arabidopsis thaliana WSCP (AtWSCP) and Raphanus sativus WSCP (RshWSCP) Schematic image of the control and modified Venus constructs for subcellular localization analysis of Arabidopsis thaliana WSCP (AtWSCP) and Raphanus sativus WSCP (RshWSCP) To obtain fluorescence images of A. thaliana expressing Venus-fused chimeric AtWSCP and RshWSCP (i.e., AtWSCP::Venus and RshWSCP::Venus, respectively), we used an Axioskop2 plus microscope (Carl Zeiss) and Axio Cam (Carl Zeiss) with the Axio Vision software (Carl Zeiss). The T2 generations of transgenic plants were used for the fluorescence microscopic analysis.
