!~ABS~! Calcium (Ca2+) is vital for plant growth, development, hormone response and adaptation to environmental stresses, yet the mechanisms regulating plant cytosolic Ca2+ homeostasis are not fully understood. Here, we characterize an Arabidopsis Ca2+‐regulated Na+/Ca2+ exchanger AtNCL that regulates Ca2+ and multiple physiological processes. AtNCL was localized to the tonoplast in yeast and plant cells. AtNCL appeared to mediate sodium (Na+) vacuolar sequestration and meanwhile Ca2+ release. The EF‐hand domains within AtNCL regulated Ca2+ binding and transport of Ca2+ and Na+. Plants with diminished AtNCL expression were more tolerant to high CaCl2 but more sensitive to both NaCl and auxin; heightened expression of AtNCL rendered plants more sensitive to CaCl2 but tolerant to NaCl. AtNCL expression appeared to be regulated by the diurnal rhythm and suppressed by auxin. DR5::GUS expression and root responses to auxin were altered in AtNCL mutants. The auxin‐induced suppression of AtNCL was attenuated in SLR/IAA14 and ARF6/8 mutants. The mutants with altered AtNCL expression also altered flowering time and FT and CO expression; FT may mediate AtNCL‐regulated flowering time change. Therefore, AtNCL is a vacuolar Ca2+‐regulated Na+/Ca2+ exchanger that regulates auxin responses and flowering time. 
!~RES~! AtNCL shared high identity and similarity with several unknown proteins (Supporting Information Fig. S1A). Sequence alignment suggests that AtNCL shows similarity with CAX proteins in the C terminus (Supporting Information Figs S1 and S2). AtNCL has 11 predicted TMDs separated by a hydrophilic region containing two predicted EF‐hand motifs into the N terminus (six TMDs) and C terminus (five TMDs). The overall topology and the presence of two EF hands are similar to NCXs (Supporting Information Fig. S3). Yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) mutants have been a powerful tool to functionally characterize plant and animal transporters (Hirschi et al. CITATION; Zhao and Dixon 2009). Because AtNCL is a predicted Ca2+/Na+ exchanger, we expressed it in yeast strains with defects in Ca2+ and Na+ transport to test its function. Firstly, AtNCL was expressed in a yeast mutant strain K667 that is defective in vacuolar Ca2+ sequestration owing to the deletions of vacuolar Ca2+‐ATPase PMC1 and vacuolar Ca2+/H+ exchanger VCX1 (Cunningham and Fink CITATION). Despite some homology with CAXs, AtNCL could not suppress the Ca2+‐sensitive phenotype of these yeast strains. Furthermore, AtNCL expression caused these strains to be more sensitive to CaCl2 (Fig. 1a). Specifically, when cells harbouring an empty vector grew well on 30 mm CaCl2 and the first dilution even grew at 50 mm CaCl2, AtNCL‐expressing yeast cells grew poorly on plates containing 30 mm CaCl2 and failed to grow on media containing 50 mm CaCl2. Yeast cells expressing an N‐terminal truncated CAX1 (sCAX1) showed strong growth under all conditions tested (Fig. 1a, Hirschi et al. CITATION). We thus tested AtNCL using another strain defective in ER‐Ca2+/Mn2+‐ATPase PMR1 and vacuolar Ca2+ transporters (Liang et al. CITATION). Again, AtNCL also could not suppress the strain's sensitivity to 10 mm ethylene glycol tetraacetic acid (EGTA) (data not shown). While sCAX1 strongly suppresses the Ca2+ sensitivity phenotype of yeast cells defective in vacuolar Ca2+ transport but shows hypersensitivity to NaCl, AtNCL‐expressing cells showed the opposite growth phenotypes (Fig. 1a).  [[FIGURE]] AtNCL partly suppressed the NaCl‐sensitive phenotypes when expressed in a NaCl‐sensitive yeast strain WX1, which is defective in a vacuolar Na+/H+ antiporter NHX1, and AXT3, which is a triple mutant defective in both NHX1 and the plasma membrane Na+/K+ efflux transporters NHA1 and ENA1 (Darley et al. CITATION), while expressing the Arabidopsis Na+/H+ antiporter NHX1 strongly suppressed this growth sensitivity (Fig. 1b). AtNCL shares similarity at the C terminus with CAXs; however, the yeast growth phenotypes are different. To further compare their activities, AtNCL was co‐expressed with sCAX1, in yeast cells defective in Ca2+ sequestration. The Ca2+‐resistant phenotype generated by sCAX1 was partially reversed by AtNCL (Fig. 1c), while the NaCl‐sensitive phenotype of sCAX1 was partially avoided when the cells were co‐expressed with AtNCL (Fig. 1c).  Because antibodies against AtNCL are not available, we made AtNCL fusions to the N terminus of GFP and to the C terminus of the triple epitope HA. Yeast mutant cells expressing AtNCL‐GFP, HA‐AtNCL or AtNCL showed similar phenotypes (Supporting Information Fig. S4). The localization of HA‐AtNCL in yeast cells was first determined by the co‐migration of this protein with vacuolar ALP in membrane fractionations (Fig. 2a). The sedimentation behaviour of the membrane fraction containing HA‐AtNCL is consistent with that of a vacuolar compartment, but not like the ER and plasma membrane factions (Fig. 2A). Furthermore, AtNCL‐GFP was localized to the yeast provacuole‐like endomembrane system (Fig. 2b,c), whereas free GFP‐expressing cells showed signals throughout the cells (Fig. 2d,e). 35S::AtNCL‐GFP was localized on the tonoplast when expressed in the stably transformed Arabidopsis leaf epidermal cells and transiently in onion epidermal cells. The vacuolar membrane localization of AtNCL‐GFP in highly vacuolarized tobacco epidermal cells is clearly different from that of the plasma membrane, which was marked by FM4‐64 labelling (Fig. 2f–h). Many small provacuoles and inner structures were observed too, indicating that AtNCL‐GFP is a highly dynamic transporter trafficking with membrane vesicles (Fig. 2f–h, Zhao et al. CITATION). To further verify this, the membrane fractionation and western blotting were carried out with plant leaves expressing 35S::AtNCL‐GFP. Similar to the results obtained from the yeast, AtNCL‐GFP is co‐fractionated with vacuolar membrane‐enriched fractions as marked with V‐H+‐ATPase, rather than with plasma membrane and the ER that are marked by PM‐H+‐ATPase and BiP, respectively.  [[FIGURE]] The EF‐hand motif is a helix–loop–helix structure that binds Ca2+ (Wei et al. CITATION; Hwang et al. CITATION). Two conserved EF‐hand motifs appear in the cytosolic loop of AtNCL (Fig. 3a). To establish Ca2+ binding activity in this region, the EF‐hand motifs of AtNCL (aa 301–366) were expressed as a GST fusion, and Ca2+ binding assays were performed. As shown in Fig. 3b, bacteria expressing the fusion of 33 kDa were purified with glutathione‐beaded agarose affinity resin column. A 45Ca2+ overlay assay with the purified GST–EF‐hand fusion, free GST and CaM (Sigma, containing S100) demonstrated Ca2+ binding to both CaM and the fusion protein (Fig. 3c,d). This suggests that AtNCL EF hands have a role in Ca2+ binding.  [[FIGURE]] Ca2+ binding domains in many transporters such as mammal NCX and yeast PMR1 play important roles in regulation of transporter activity and vectorial transport (Wei et al. CITATION; Hwang et al. CITATION; Philipson and Nicoll CITATION). We then tested whether the EF hands in AtNCL act as a cytosolic Ca2+ sensor and regulate NCX activity. To address this, a truncated version of AtNCL deleting the EF hands (AtNCLΔEF) was constructed and expressed in yeast cells. When expressed in yeast cells defective in vacuolar Ca2+ transport, AtNCLΔEF‐expressing cells became more sensitive to CaCl2 than AtNCL cells. At the same time, the cells were more resistant to NaCl stress than AtNCL (Fig. 4a). The increased Na+ tolerance by AtNCLΔEF expression was further confirmed in the Na+‐sensitive yeast strains WX1 and AXT3 defective in vacuolar Na+/H+ transporter NHX1 (Fig. 4a and Supporting Information Fig. S5a). Expression of the truncated protein was examined by using western blotting, which shows HA‐tagged AtNCLΔEF with expected size (Supporting Information Fig. S4b).  [[FIGURE]] To explain the Ca sensitivity phenotype conferred by AtNCL expressed in K667 strain, a more sensitive assay in liquid medium containing NaCl and CaCl2 was conducted. In medium containing 20 mm CaCl2, the growth rates of yeast cells expressing vector control declined rapidly in the presence of high concentrations of NaCl. However, the growth of AtNCL‐expressing and AtNCLΔEF‐expressing cells were not severely inhibited (Fig. 4b). The differences between cells expressing AtNCL, AtNCLΔEF and empty vector became more evident when high concentrations of NaCl were applied (Fig. 4c, left panel). However, in growth media containing 100 mm NaCl, the growth rates of AtNCL‐expressing and AtNCLΔEF‐expressing cells were reduced more dramatically than the vector control, with increasing concentrations of CaCl2 applied (Fig. 4c, right panel)  Directly measuring the Na+/Ca2+ exchange activity of the tonoplast AtNCL is a technically difficult because there is no electric current generated by the Na+/Ca2+ exchange mechanism. To determine if yeast phenotypes were due to Na+/Ca2+ imbalances caused by AtNCL or AtNCLΔEF expression, ions in these yeast cells were analysed by means of ICP‐MS. AtNCL‐expressing and AtNCLΔEF‐expressing cells accumulated much more NaCl (from 48% to onefold) than cells expressing the empty vector alone (Supporting Information Figs S5b and S6). To reach an accurate measurement of NCX activity through minimizing the effects of vacuolar Ca2+‐ATPase PMC1 and vacuolar Ca2+/H+ antiporter VCX1, Na2VO4 was used for providing Na+ for uptake substrate and acting as an inhibitor of Ca2+‐ATPase to prevent Ca2+ released by AtNCL from being taken up back into the vacuole. Furthermore, vacuole‐enriched vesicles isolated from AtNCL‐expressing or AtNCLΔEF‐expressing cells did sequester more Na+ than vesicles harbouring just the vector. AtNCL‐mediated or AtNCLΔEF‐mediated Na+ accumulation reached a maximum at 6 min, and vacuoles from AtNCLΔEF‐expressing cells accumulated more Na+ than those from AtNCL‐expressing cells (Fig. 4d). As application of Triton X‐100 destroyed the vacuolar membrane integrity and resulted in Na+ leakiness, Na+ uptake value decreased correspondingly, indicating that Na+ uptake was not due to non‐specific binding.  Meanwhile, Ca levels in the vesicles dropped faster in AtNCL‐expressing or AtNCLΔEF‐expressing ones than in vector control (Fig. 4e), indicating that uptake of Na+ was coincident with the release of Ca2+ in AtNCL‐expressing or AtNCLΔEF‐expressing vesicles in a Na+/Ca2+ exchange manner. To test the coupled transport of Na+ and Ca2+, a Ca2+ ionophore A23187 was included in the assay to abolish the Ca2+ gradients in the vacuoles to examine the effect on Na+ uptake. As expected, Na+ uptake was also abolished (Fig. 4f). On the contrary, pre‐loading of yeast vacuoles with higher Ca2+ concentration enhanced Na+ uptake (Fig. 4g). These data further support that AtNCL functions on the tonoplast transport Na+ in exchange of Ca2+.  Yeast cells expressing AtNCL or AtNCLΔEF accumulated more Ca2+ (about 28% and 50%, respectively) when grown in YPD medium supplemented with 30 mm CaCl2 (Supporting Information Figs S5b and S6). To further clarify transport kinetics, 45Ca2+ uptake in yeast cells defective in vacuolar Ca2+ transport was conducted. Feeding yeast cells with 45Ca2+, AtNCL‐expressing and AtNCLΔEF‐expressing cells showed significantly increased Ca2+ uptake compared with control in the short term (2–12 h). Moreover, a protracted assay of 45Ca2+ uptake by AtNCL‐expressing cells demonstrated a saturable curve, whereas those of both vector‐expressing and AtNCLΔEF‐expressing cells did not (Supporting Information Fig. S5d).  Analysis of AtNCL promoter::β‐glucuronidase (GUS) reporter lines shows that AtNCL was expressed throughout the plant tissues during the entire life cycle (Fig. 5a). Furthermore, AtNCL is strongly expressed in leaf and shoot tissue and in the apical meristem of young plants. This high level and ubiquitous expression was confirmed by northern blotting. Leaves, roots, stems, flowers and siliques all appeared to express AtNCL (Fig. 5b). Northern blotting analysis with 3‐week‐old Col‐0 wild‐type seedlings showed that AtNCL was induced by CaCl2, MgCl2, mannitol and NaCl (Fig. 5c). Both 100 mm NaCl and 50 mm mannitol induced AtNCL expression in a time‐dependent manner. These data are consistent with publically available microarray data (https://www.genevestigator.ethz.ch/at).  [[FIGURE]] To gain more insights into the function of AtNCL in Arabidopsis, two homozygous T‐DNA insertion knockout lines for AtNCL were obtained by screening SALK T‐DNA insertion lines (Fig. 5d). Northern blotting showed that AtNCL transcript levels in two homozygous mutant alleles were absent (Fig. 5e). In addition, transgenic lines expressing AtNCL driven by a 35S promoter were generated, and multiple homozygous 35S::AtNCL lines were obtained (Fig. 5f). Root elongation assays with these lines showed that both null and overexpression mutants grew similarly with wild‐type seedlings on one‐half‐strength MS plates, the Na+ and Ca2+ measurement data showed no statistic difference (data not shown). However, AtNCL mutant (atncl‐1 or atncl‐2) seedlings grew much better on 25 and 50 mm CaCl2 plates than wild type did (Fig. 6a,b); most 35S::AtNCL lines were more sensitive to CaCl2. These growth phenotypes of the transgenic lines contrast with the loss‐of‐function mutants (Fig. 6a,b). At the same time, AtNCL mutant seedlings are more sensitive to NaCl stress than wild‐type controls (under 75 and 100 mm); the 35S::AtNCL lines were resistant to NaCl stress (Fig. 6c,d). Ion analysis on these knockouts under CaCl2 and NaCl stress conditions indicated that atncl‐1 and atncl‐2 mutants accumulate more Na+ and less Ca2+.  [[FIGURE]] Because Ca2+ homeostasis and signalling connect to many hormone and growth and development phenotypes and CAX4 mutants showed altered response to auxin (Mei et al. CITATION), we screened these mutants for growth development and hormone response phenotype and observed a clearly increased number of lateral root and root elongation in AtNCL knockout mutants compared with wild type in response to both IAA and NAA treatments. Meanwhile, 35S::AtNCL lines were less sensitive to auxin‐triggered lateral root formation and root elongation (Fig. 7a,b). Relative expression levels of AtNCL were decreased over time by 50 nM IAA or NAA auxin treatment, suggesting that AtNCL is subject to regulation by auxin (Fig. 7c). DR5::GUS expression in atncl‐1 was more sensitive to auxin than that in wild type, but DR5::GUS in 35S::AtNCL lines showed the least induction by auxin relative to those in Col‐0 and AtNCL knockout mutant backgrounds (Fig. 7d).  [[FIGURE]] We observed that AtNCL mutant plants flowered at approximately the same time as wild‐type Col‐0 plants under SD conditions (Fig. 8a,b). However, under LD conditions, 35S::AtNCL lines flowered significantly later than did the control plants, whereas both AtNCL mutant lines flowered earlier than Col‐0, as indicated by days to flowering and the number of rosette leaves at flowering (Fig. 8a,b and Supporting Information Fig. S7). Furthermore, overexpression of AtNCL in ft‐10 resulted in more severe delay in flowering; however, the flowering time of a atncl‐1/ft‐10 double mutant was between those of ft‐10 and atncl‐1 (Fig. 8b and Supporting Information Fig. S7). These data suggest that FT may mediate the AtNCL‐regulated flowering time change. Because AtNCL is regulated by light signals, we examined AtNCL and found that it also shows diurnal rhythm with higher expression in the night and lower expression in the daytime (Fig. 8c). Examining the expression of genes related to flowering time showed that AtNCL mutants have an altered expression of two major flowering genes CONSTANS (CO) and FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT), but not ARF6 and YUCCA1 (Fig. 8d): both CO and FT expression levels were increased but decreased in 35S::AtNCL lines relative to wild type under LD conditions (Fig. 8d). AtNCL expression was higher in flowering mutant ft‐10 and auxin signalling mutants yucca1, arf6 and slr. Auxin‐induced AtNCL suppression was more effective in Col‐0, ft‐10 and yucca1 but less effective in arf6 and slr (Fig. 8e).  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! T‐DNA insertion mutant alleles for AtNCL (At1g53210), atncl‐1 (SALK_023152) and atncl‐2 (SALK_004500), heterozygous arf6‐1 arf8‐2 double mutant (CS24632), yucca1 (SALK_106293C), slr (CS25214), arf2‐7 (CS24601) and ft‐10 (CS9869) were obtained and screened from SALK (Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center, Columbus, OH, USA) by PCR with a T‐DNA left board primer LBa1 and gene‐specific primer AtNCLm. A double mutant of atncl‐1/ft‐10 was established by the crossing of ft‐10 and atncl‐1; 35S‐driven AtNCL overexpression lines (35S::AtNCL) were generated by a recombination system as described previously using a pair of primers AtNCL‐Sfi5 and AtNCL‐Sfi3 (Shigaki et al. CITATION, Supporting Information Table S1). The binary plasmid was transformed into the Agrobacterium strain GV3101, which was used to transform Arabidopsis ecotype Col‐0 and ft‐10 plants with the floral dip method (Clough CITATION). The third generations selected from herbicide BASTA selection medium were confirmed with RT‐PCR and used for experiments.  AtNCL was amplified from a leaf cDNA library. The PCR product of 1.8 kb was cloned into a pGEM T‐easy vector (Promega, Sunnyvale, CA, USA) and then subcloned into the NotI and SacI sites of yeast vectors pGHis or pGUra after sequencing. For constructing a truncated AtNCL with deletion of EF hands, the N‐terminal [amino acid (aa) 1–300] and C‐terminal (aa 370–585) transmembrane domains (TMDs) of AtNCL were amplified with two pairs of primers (Supporting Information Table S1). The PCR fragments were cloned into a pGEM T‐easy vector for sequencing. The confirmed PCR fragment was co‐ligated into the pGHis or pGUra yeast expression vector at NotI and SacI sites in one ligation reaction. This truncated AtNCL with deleted EF hands was named as AtNCLΔEF.  Yeast strains K667 (cnb1::LEU2 pmc1::TRP1 vcx1), K616 (pmc1::TRP1 cnb1::LEU2 pmr1::HIS3), WX1 (NHA1 nhx1) and AXT3 (ena1‐4::HIS3 nha1::LEU2 nhx1::TRP1) (Cunningham and Fink CITATION; Darley et al. CITATION) were used to express sCAX1 (N‐terminal truncated version of CAX1), AtNCL and AtNCLΔEF. Growth and yeast complementation experiments were conducted essentially as described previously (Zhao et al. CITATION). The yeast strains K667, AXT3 and WX1 were transformed by using polyethylene glycol (PEG)/lithium acetate method and selected in Ura medium. For growth assay, saturated overnight yeast cultures were diluted serially in fivefold and spotted on Yeast Peptone Dextrose (YPD) or arginine phosphate (AP) medium plates supplemented with metals at different concentrations. Plates were incubated at 30 °C. For yeast growth assay in liquid medium, serially diluted yeasts were grown in 96‐well plates containing Yeast Nitrogen Base (YNB) medium supplemented with different combinations of CaCl2 and NaCl and the optical density (OD) of cultures was recorded at 0, 19 and 24 h of incubation.  AtNCL was amplified with a forward primer AtNCLGFP5 and AtNCL‐GFP3 (Supporting Information Table S1). The resulting fragments were cloned into pGEM T‐easy and then subcloned into a green fluorescent protein (GFP) expression cassette vector (pGHis‐GFP) in the frame of GFP N terminus at SpeI and NotI sites. Constructs were transformed into yeast K667. AtNCL‐GFP localization in yeast cells was imaged under Olympus Fluoview (FV500) laser scanning confocal microscope (Olympus Optical, Tokyo, Japan). An argon laser beam was used for excitation at 488 nm and for GFP visualization at emission at 525 nm. The AtNCL‐GFP was amplified and subcloned into the plant transient expression vector pRTL driven by either the 35S promoter or gateway vector pB2GW7. These AtNCL‐GFP plasmid DNAs were transformed into Agrobacterium for infiltration of tobacco leaves and Arabidopsis transformation (Zhao et al. CITATION). Plant cell images were acquired with a Bio‐Rad MRC 1024 ES confocal laser scanning microscope and Laser Sharp 2000 software for analysis.  EF‐hand motifs in AtNCL (aa 300–400) were amplified with primers EF1 and EF2 (Supporting Information Table S1). The PCR product of about 300 bp was subcloned into pGEX‐4 T‐1 at EcoRI and XhoI sites in frame. The construct was transformed into BL21 (DE3) cells for protein expression. Induction of GST–EF‐hands fusion, extraction and purification with glutathione agarose beads (Amersham Biosciences, Piscataway, NJ, USA) were conducted as previously described (Zhao and Wang, CITATION).  Recombinant EF‐hand–GST fusion, free GST and calmodulin (CaM) (Sigma, St Louis, MO, USA) were denatured in protein loading buffer and resolved by sodium dodecyl sulphate–polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS–PAGE) and then transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane. Direct 45Ca2+ binding to proteins on the nitrocellulose membrane was tested. Briefly, nitrocellulose membranes were washed two times in an overlay buffer (60 mm KCl, 5 mm MgCl2, 10 mm imidazole HCl, pH 6.8) and then incubated in an overlay buffer containing 20 μm 45Ca2+ (PerkinElmer Life Science, Boston, MA, USA) for 10 min. Membranes were washed with an overlay buffer for 20 min to remove unbound 45Ca2+. 45Ca2+ bond to proteins was visualized on a PhosphorImager (Molecular Dynamics, Piscataway, NJ, USA), and membranes were stained with Coomassie blue R‐250.  For ion content analysis, K667 mutant cells expressing AtNCL, AtNCLΔEF or empty vector were incubated in SC media for overnight, and 2 mL of cultures was inoculated into 300 mL YPD medium with or without supplement of 100 mm NaCl or 20 mm CaCl2 overnight. All cultures grown to similar cell densities were washed with deionized water three times. For plant ion content analysis, AtNCL mutants and control (Col‐0) were grown in soils at 22 °C and cold continuous fluorescent light. Three‐week‐old plants were treated with 50 mm CaCl2 or 100 mm NaCl or water for 24 h (control) for ion analysis. For CaCl2‐treated plants, plant shoots were taken and washed with cold deionized water three times. For NaCl treatment, plant shoots were washed in ice‐cold 10 mm CaCl2 solution for 20 min before washing three times with deionized water. Yeast and plant samples were analysed using ionome analysis by using inductively coupled plasma emission mass spectrophotometer (ICP‐MS) as described before (Zhao et al., CITATION).  Ca2+ uptake was measured as described previously with modifications (Fu et al. CITATION). The K667 cells expressing vector, AtNCL or AtNCLΔEF grown in YNB‐Ura restriction medium were harvested from an exponential phase culture and resuspended in SC medium supplemented with 5 mm CaCl2 at an identical cell density (0.5 OD600nm). The 45Ca2+ uptake experiment was then initiated by the addition of 45Ca2+ to a concentration of 1 μCi mL−1. At the times indicated, aliquots were filtered through a 0.45 μm filter membrane and washed with buffer containing 20 mm CaCl2 three times. The amount of cell‐associated 45Ca2+ was determined by liquid scintillation counting.  Na+ uptake by vacuole‐enriched membrane fraction was conducted with yeast Na+/H+ exchanger (NHX1) mutant WX1 cells expressing vector, AtNCL or AtNCLΔEF by using the ICP‐MS method described previously (Darley et al. CITATION). All yeast cells were cultivated in the AP medium containing 20 mm NaCl and 20 mm CaCl2 overnight, and yeast cells expressing different genes were harvested and used for preparation of vacuole‐enriched membrane fractions as described previously (Zhao et al. CITATION). Vacuolar membrane vesicles were incubated in a 2 mL uptake reaction solution containing 5 mm bis‐tris‐propane (BTP)‐methyl ethyl sulphate (MES) (pH 8.0), 1 mm BTP‐ATP, 50 mm KCl, 0.1 mm vanadate, 0.2 mm azide and 10% (w/v) glycerol, at 25 °C. After charging the vacuole with 1 mm Mg‐ATP for 5 min, Na+ uptake was initiated by the addition of Na2SO4 (Na+ provider) at different concentrations (from 0 mm to a final concentration of 20 mm). Of the reaction mix, 100 μL was removed and loaded on a 0.22 μm filter membrane (Millipore) at the indicated time. Filters were washed three times in ice‐cold wash buffer of 5 mm BTP‐MES containing 10% glycerol. Vesicle membranes were permeabilized with 0.05% Triton X‐100 to show that the Na+ or Ca2+ measurements were not due to non‐specific Na+/Ca2+ binding to the membranes. For testing Ca2+ release‐dependent Na+ uptake, Ca2+‐ionophore A23187 was added to the uptake assay buffer at 0.5 and 2 μm final concentrations, 5 min prior to the activity assay. Alternatively, the yeast cells were cultivated in the AP medium containing 20, 50 and 100 mm CaCl2 overnight and were used to prepare Ca2+‐loaded vacuoles for Na+ uptake assay.  Two‐week‐old seedlings were used for treatments with different metal or mannitol solutions for a 16 h treatment. Total RNA was extracted from tissues with RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA, USA). Ten micrograms of total RNA was loaded for northern blotting as described previously (Cheng et al. CITATION). For immunoblotting assay on haemagglutinin (HA)‐tagged AtNCL and AtNCLΔEF, GST–EF hands of AtNCL were conducted as described previously (Zhao and Wang CITATION; Zhao et al. CITATION, CITATION). Microsomals were prepared from yeast cells expressing HA‐AtNCL or tobacco leaves expressing AtNCL‐GFP, as previously described; the continuous or discontinuous sucrose density gradient preparation and microsomal fractionation were performed as described previously (Zhao et al. CITATION). GFP antibody (1:2000) (Covance, Berkeley, CA, USA), monoclonal mouse immunoglobulin G (IgG) against HA (Covance), yeast vacuolar alkaline phosphatase (ALP), BiP (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR, USA) and polyclonal antibody against the plasma membrane H+‐ATPase (PMA1) were used at 1:3000, 1:300 and 1:1000 dilutions, respectively. The microsomal fractions from HA‐AtNCL‐expressing yeast cells or tobacco leaves expressing AtNCL‐GFP were subjected to sucrose density gradient centrifugation as described previously (Zhao et al. CITATION). About 10 μg of proteins from the resulting fractions was resolved on pre‐cast 4 to 12% gradient SDS–PAGE gels (Nupage; Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA) and transferred to polyvinylidene difluoride membranes. The membranes were blotted with anti‐GFP (Invitrogen), anti‐V‐H+‐ATPase (Agrisera, Vännäs, Sweden), anti‐PM‐H+‐ATPase (Agrisera) or anti‐BiP (Agrisera) antibody raised in rabbits and then visualized by horseradish peroxidase‐conjugated secondary antibody raised against rabbit IgG. Signals were visualized by enhanced chemiluminescence (ECL kit; Amersham Biosciences).  Rosette leaves or meristem tissues were harvested for total RNA isolation with the RNeasy plant mini kit. For synthesis of cDNA, 3 μg of total RNA was primed using a dT16 primer and reverse transcribed using an Invitrogen Reverse Transcriptase kit (Life Technologies, Rockville, MD, USA) according to the manufacturer's instructions. cDNA was diluted to 150 μL with water, and 3 μL of diluted cDNA was used for qRT‐PCR with primer pairs listed in Supporting Information Table S2 by using an iQ5 multicolour real‐time PCR detection system (Bio‐Rad, Hercules, CA, USA) as described previously (Zhao et al. CITATION). The expression of target genes was normalized over the abundance of ACTIN.  As described previously (Zhao et al. 2008b), 4‐d‐old wild‐type (Col‐0), atncl‐1 and atncl‐2 seedlings in one‐half‐strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium were transferred to one‐half‐strength MS plates with or without various concentrations of CaCl2, NaCl, indole acetic acid (IAA) and α‐naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) for root elongation and lateral root assay. Lateral root number was counted, and the primary root elongation rate was calculated on a daily basis.  For analysis of flowering time and gene expression, plants were grown in soil in controlled environment rooms under long daylight (LD) (16 h light/8 h dark) or short daylight (SD) conditions (8 h light/16 h dark). Flowering time was measured by scoring the number of rosette and cauline leaves on the main stem of at least 10 individuals. The bolted flowers at 16 and 18 d after growth under LD conditions were counted in plants for evaluation of average flowering time.  AtNCL promoter::GUS construction was made by using 2.2 kb promoter regions of AtNCL gene. This promoter sequence was cloned in a transcriptional fusion with a GUS coding sequence. The binary construct harbouring DR5::GUS was transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101, which was used to transform Arabidopsis ecotype Col‐0, atncl‐1 or 35S::AtNCL plants. F3 BASTA‐resistant transgenic plants were used for histochemical assays as previously described. Photographs were taken under a Nikon E600W microscope.  All data in this report were obtained from at least three independent experiments with three repeats and were analysed with Student's t‐test. The difference between AtNCL samples and their controls was considered as significant when P < 0.05 in a two‐tailed analysis. 
