!~ABS~!  
!~RES~! Previously, a β‐glucuronidase (GUS) C‐terminal translational fusion to the entire B. napus T‐oleosin BnOlnB;4 (TOG‐2, Fig. 1a) was shown to transfer the active enzyme to the Brassica pollen coat (Foster et al., CITATION). This study confirmed that BnOlnB;4 undergoes proteolytic cleavage and showed that the GUS enzyme was targeted to the pollen coat attached to the CD. BnOlnB;4 displays limited sequence identity to any of the nine Arabidopsis thaliana T‐oleosins except in the HD where the highest similarity is to AT5G07530 (62% identity, Fig. S1). TOG‐2 was introduced into Arabidopsis to determine whether the B. napus T‐oleosin would be targeted correctly to the pollen coat of another Brassicaceae species despite large differences in protein sequence. The TOG‐2 translational fusion did target the GUS enzyme to the Arabidopsis pollen coat (Fig. 2a) unlike a transcriptional fusion between the BnOlnB;4 tapetal promoter and the GUS gene (SGC‐1, Figs 1a, 2d). These results complement a recent study showing the reverse situation where an Arabidopsis T‐oleosin was properly targeted in B. napus (Suzuki et al., CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] Although the proteolytically cleaved CD has been detected in the Brassicaceae pollen coat, the NF (ND + HD) has been assumed to be mostly degraded as the tapetosomal TAGs disappear (Murphy, CITATION). To determine the fate of the cleaved NF, a N‐terminal translational GUS fusion to the entire BnOlnB;4 protein was constructed (TOG‐4, Fig. 1a) and introduced into Arabidopsis. This construct also led to the targeting of the GUS protein to the pollen coat (Fig. 2b), although it is possible that the fusion did not undergo proteolytic cleavage and targeting of the TOG‐4 N‐terminal GUS fusion resulted from the persisting CD. To rule out this possibility, a translational fusion was constructed consisting only of the BnOlnB;4 NF and GUS (TOG‐3, Fig. 1a). As shown in Fig. 2(c), GUS enzyme activity could still be detected on transgenic pollen and this activity could be removed by extracting the pollen coat with cyclohexane as with TOG‐4 (results not shown). Altogether, the above results suggest that both the NF and CF of the B. napus BnOlnB;4 T‐oleosin can target GUS to the pollen coat of another Brassicaceae species.  All nine Arabidopsis T‐oleosin genes have recently been shown to be expressed albeit at different levels (Huang et al., 2013a). Unlike the Brassica T‐oleosins, there is little information regarding the targeting and processing of the Arabidopsis T‐oleosins. Arabidopsis T‐oleosins vary considerably in size and composition due largely to differences in their CD and we selected the two most abundant T‐oleosins which also represent the smallest (AT5G07550, T5, ATGRP19) and the largest (AT5G07530, T3, ATGRP17) T‐oleosins detected in the Arabidopsis pollen coat (Mayfield et al., CITATION) for the construction of the GUS C‐terminal translational fusions ATOG‐3 and ATOG‐5, respectively (Fig. 1a). In different transgenic Arabidopsis lines, both constructs exhibited GUS activity in the tapetum early in anther development (Fig. 3a,c) and later in the pollen coat (Fig. 3b,d). As expected, the SGC‐1 transcriptional fusion also showed GUS activity in the tapetum (Fig. 3e), but none associated with the pollen grain (Fig. 3f). Therefore, despite vast differences in size and amino acid composition (Table 1), both the AT5G07530 and AT5G07550 T‐oleosins can effectively target the active GUS protein to the Arabidopsis pollen coat.  [[FIGURE]] GUS is a stable protein whose enzymatic assays are destructive, we therefore tested whether GFP could be targeted to the pollen coat and not only maintain activity in that extracellular environment, but also allow studies of living tissues. GFP was fused as a C‐terminal translational fusion to the full‐length AT5G07550 and AT5G07530 proteins (ATOGFP‐3 and ATOGFP‐5 respectively, Fig. 1b) and introduced into Arabidopsis. As with the GUS translational fusions, GFP fluorescence can be detected within the tapetum early in anther development with both ATOGFP‐3 and ATOGFP‐5, and is associated with discrete organelles within the intact tapetum (Fig. 4a,b). This GFP expression pattern contrasts with that of POGFP‐2 (Fig. 1b), a GFP transcriptional fusion to the B. napus pollen polygalacturonase Sta 44 promoter (Hong et al., CITATION) (Fig. 4c) and of untransformed plants (Fig. 4d), where GFP is not detected within the tapetum. Upon tapetum degeneration, both ATOGFP‐3 (Fig. 4e,i) and ATOGFP‐5 (Fig. 4f,j) display GFP fluorescence distributed within the anther locule presumably associated with tapetosomal debris ‘in transit’ to the pollen cell wall. This differs from results obtained with POGFP‐2 where GFP fluorescence is confined to the pollen grain (Fig. 4g,k) or from untransformed plants (Fig. 4h,l). Later in pollen development, GFP fluorescence was detected on the mature pollen surface with ATOGFP‐3 (Fig. 4m) and ATOGFP‐5 (Fig. 4n), unlike POGFP‐2 (Fig. 4o). The ATOGFP‐5 findings confirm results recently reported with a similar AT5G07530‐GFP fusion based on the cDNA sequence (Suzuki et al., CITATION) and further demonstrate that the much smaller AT5G07550 can also target GFP to the pollen coat.  [[FIGURE]] The T‐oleosins and TAGs are thought to be synthesized within the ER network and to converge towards tapetosome‐forming centers of the ER where T‐oleosin coated lipid droplets (LDs) generated by budding associate tightly with ER vesicles mostly via ionic interactions (Platt et al., CITATION). The HD of the T‐oleosins is believed to anchor the proteins within the LD TAGs and indeed T‐oleosins were shown to be specifically associated with isolated LDs by tapetosome fractionation (Hsieh & Huang, CITATION, CITATION), although the in vivo co‐localization of T‐oleosins and LDs in Arabidopsis tapetosomes has recently been questioned (Suzuki et al., CITATION). Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) immunogold labeling was performed using an antibody raised against GFP to verify the subcellular localization of the translational fusions ATOGFP‐3 and ATOGFP‐5. The results obtained with the two fusions were very similar and showed the GFP protein first localized specifically within the tapetosomes (Fig. 5a,c) and associated primarily with a network of structures previously described as fibrils (Murphy & Ross, CITATION) or ‘strings of beads’ (Hsieh & Huang, CITATION). This localization is consistent with TEM results obtained with antibodies raised against the native Brassica BnOlnB;3 and BnOlnB;4 T‐oleosins (Murphy & Ross, CITATION) and with the demonstration that these ‘granules’ contain basic proteins (Alves Ferreira et al., CITATION) as T‐oleosins are basic (Table 1). Depending on the method of fixation and osmoticum, tapetosomes vary considerably in appearance during TEM analysis (Wu et al., CITATION; Ross et al., CITATION; Foster et al., CITATION; Hsieh & Huang, CITATION; Suzuki et al., CITATION; Quilichini et al., CITATION) complicating attempts to decipher their internal organization and to correlate different studies. The occurrence of the ‘strings of beads’ is typical of tapetosomes chemically fixed in the absence of osmium to retain antigenicity (Murphy & Ross, CITATION; Foster et al., CITATION). These ‘strings of beads’ make up a network which based on the section appears around the edge of the tapetosome or meshes it entirely probably also depending on the extent of fixation. They are present within an electron translucent matrix (presumably resulting from the loss of lipids during sample processing) with greyish stacks often visible (Fig. 5c). The ‘strings of beads’ closely resemble isolated tapetosomal vesicles shown to contain ER marker proteins (Hsieh & Huang, CITATION). Therefore, localization of the T‐oleosins to the ‘strings of beads’ would indicate an intimate association of these proteins with both the tapetosomal ER‐derived network and LDs, with the stronger interaction with the LDs via the HD possibly explaining why they mostly co‐localize upon tapetosome fractionation (Hsieh & Huang, CITATION, CITATION). The notion that T‐oleosins can interact with different tapetosome constituents is further supported by the recent demonstration that the expression of AT5G07530 in the tapetum of Cleome hassleriana led to the de novo association of LDs and vesicles to form primitive tapetosomes (Huang et al., 2013a).  [[FIGURE]] A younger stage of anther development was intentionally chosen for ATOGFP‐3 (Fig. 5a) to illustrate the clustering of smaller tapetosomes often observed in earlier stages of tapetum development, whereas a more mature stage was chosen for ATOGFP‐5 (Fig. 5c). The younger tapetosomes appear to fuse to form larger mature tapetosomes and often displayed a boundary which could also sometimes be seen around mature tapetosomes. A boundary surrounding mature tapetosomes has been described previously (Platt et al., CITATION; Suzuki et al., CITATION), but other studies reported the absence of such a boundary (Wu et al., CITATION; Murphy & Ross, CITATION; Quilichini et al., CITATION).  Following tapetum degeneration, the GFP protein was detected within the pollen coat with both ATOGFP‐3 and ATOGFP‐5 (Fig. 5b,d) consistent with the GFP fluorescence patterns observed above, as well as results obtained with the native Brassica BnOlnB;3 and BnOlnB;4 T‐oleosins (Murphy & Ross, CITATION).  To examine whether the Arabidopsis T‐oleosins are proteolytically cleaved following tapetal breakdown as demonstrated for their Brassica counterparts (Ross & Murphy, CITATION; Murphy & Ross, CITATION), western blot analyses were performed with three different antibodies raised specifically against either the AT5G07530 NF, AT5G07530 CF or GFP. As shown in Fig. 6(a) (asterisk), early in development the GFP antibody detected the ATOGFP‐5 fusion at a much higher molecular mass than predicted for the full AT5G07530‐GFP fusion (80.2 kD). Brassica T‐oleosins are known to migrate above their predicted molecular mass (Wang et al., CITATION; Murphy & Ross, CITATION). In fact, a recent study showed that a full AT5G07530‐GFP fusion migrated comparably, but in this report the smaller CF‐GFP fragment expected from the cleavage of the 14.9 kD NF was not detected later in anther development (Suzuki et al., CITATION). Similarly, this CF‐GFP fragment was difficult to observe in anthers obtained at the 2 mm bud stage containing tricellular pollen grains, but became evident following mature pollen coat isolation (Fig. 6a, closed circle), although some of it had undergone an additional proteolytic cleavage releasing GFP in free form (Fig. 6a, arrow). Both N‐ and C‐terminal cleavage of GFP in fusion constructs releasing a GFP ‘core’ protein have been observed previously (Benghezal et al., CITATION; DaSilva et al., CITATION; Quattrocchio et al., CITATION; Suzuki et al., CITATION). Since free GFP and derived smaller proteolytic products (Fig. 6a) are enriched in the pollen coat extract, proteolysis is likely to have occurred once the fusion was associated to the pollen coat as translational fusion to T‐oleosin is required for GFP transfer to the pollen coat (Figs 2d, 3f; Foster et al., CITATION). These results imply that proteolytic activity persists late in anther/pollen development possibly ensuring that only specific tapetal proteins persist in the pollen coat. Very little information is known regarding this selective proteolysis.  [[FIGURE]] The GFP antibody also detected the smaller AT5G07550‐GFP fusion ATOGFP‐3 (Fig. 6a, asterisk) which, unlike ATOGFP‐5, migrated close to its predicted molecular mass (37.7 kD) suggesting that T‐oleosin molecular mass inconsistencies are largely due to the basic CD which is typically considerably larger than that of AT5G07550 (Table 1). Late in development, the NF (8 kD) was cleaved yielding an ATOGFP‐3 fusion of the expected size in the pollen coat (Fig. 6a, closed circle).  An identical western blot analysis was performed with the antibody specific to the AT5G07530 CD (Fig. 6b). In untransformed plants, the antibody could detect the endogenous AT5G07530 protein as well as the cleaved version lacking the NF (black diamonds) close to previously observed sizes (Mayfield & Preuss, CITATION; Kim et al., CITATION). The occurrence of several cross‐reacting bands using antibodies derived against native T‐oleosins is not unusual in anther extracts (Murphy & Ross, CITATION; Kim et al., CITATION; Suzuki et al., CITATION) and may represent alternative forms of these proteins (Ruiter et al., CITATION; Murphy & Ross, CITATION; Ting et al., CITATION). Oligomerization of seed oleosins has been reported previously (Sarmiento et al., CITATION; Pons et al., CITATION; Li et al., CITATION; Vargo et al., CITATION) and may extend to the T‐oleosins, for example, the cross‐reacting band above 100 kD may represent a dimer of AT5G07530. Alternatively, the large cross‐reacting proteins may reflect an incomplete dissociation of protein–lipid interactions by SDS before electrophoresis. The majority of these additional cross‐reacting bands are missing in the pollen coat suggesting that following proteolytic cleavage T‐oleosin interactions are modified concurrent with LD breakdown.  In Arabidopsis lines expressing ATOGFP‐5, the CD antibody detected the same fusion protein bands detected with the GFP antibody (Fig. 6b). Since the antibody was raised against a peptide unique to the AT5G07530 CD, it does not detect the CF of AT5G07550, thus both ATOGFP‐3 and POGFP‐2 had a pattern similar to WT showing the endogenous AT5G07530 proteins (Fig. 6b). The antibody against the AT5G07530 ND could also detect the uncleaved ATOGFP‐5 fusion (although not the cleaved version lacking the NF) and attempts to detect the released NF were inconclusive (results not shown). To our knowledge, the cleaved AT5G07530 NF has never been detected immunologically and this may indicate that it is either degraded or that following cleavage it is no longer immuno‐reactive or extracted. Nonetheless, upon tapetal degeneration both AT5G07530 and AT5G07550 undergo proteolytic cleavage releasing the NF and CF fragments confirming that this cleavage occurs outside Brassica. These results also signify that targeting of GFP to the pollen coat in ATOGFP‐3 and ATOGFP‐5 occurred as a fusion to the CD. The demonstration that the highly variable Arabidopsis T‐oleosins are also proteolytically cleaved should foster further efforts to identify putative conserved cleavage sites. It would be interesting to prevent this proteolysis, for example by site‐directed mutagenesis of the cleavage site, and evaluate whether it is necessary for the T‐oleosins to exert their functions within the tapetosome and the pollen coat.  It has been proposed that the length and hydrophobicity of the HD results in the CD being located on the cytosolic surface of the ER (Abell et al., CITATION). The occurrence of the ND and CD on the cytosolic side of the LDs is also thought to be critical to their stability (Li et al., CITATION) and AT5G07550 may represent a minimal version of such an arrangement given that it possesses the smallest ND and CD of all the Arabidopsis T‐oleosins (Table 1). The first c. 30 aa of the seed oleosin CD are thought to interact horizontally with charged groups of the phospholipid layer (Hsieh & Huang, CITATION) and the first 14 aa have been shown to resist proteolytic cleavage presumably due to a tight association with the phospholipid bilayer (Abell et al., CITATION). A strong interaction with the phospholipid layer might explain the ability of such a small AT5G07550 CD (28 aa) to target much larger proteins like GUS (603 aa) and GFP (239 aa) to the pollen coat in the absence of the anchoring HD, although it is not known if this interaction persists following tapetal breakdown. Given that an AT5G07550 (T5) knockout displays defective tapetosomes as well as pollen grains more susceptible to dehydration (Huang et al., 2013a), this T‐oleosin evidently performs critical non‐redundant functions in spite of its very small size.  The results from the NF‐GUS fusions containing the ND and HD of the Brassica BnOlnB;4 T‐oleosin (TOG‐3, TOG‐4) described above suggest that this fragment can re‐locate to the pollen coat. However, the presence of the AT5G07530 NF could not be confirmed via western blot analysis of anther or pollen coat proteins. Therefore, ATOGFP‐6, a fusion of the AT5G07530 first exon (which encodes the NF) and GFP (Fig. 1b) was constructed and introduced into Arabidopsis. During anther development, GFP fluorescence was first detected in the intact tapetum (Fig. 7a), then the anther locule upon tapetal degeneration (Fig. 7d,g) and finally the coat of the mature pollen grain (Fig. 7j), albeit at a consistently lower level among different transgenic lines than observed for ATOGFP‐5 which is the equivalent construct containing the full length AT5G07530 (Fig. 4).  [[FIGURE]] Since the T‐oleosin NF comprises the conserved HD first described in seed oleosins, the equivalent seed oleosin NF encoded by exon 1 of the Arabidopsis 18 kD oleosin (ole) 1 gene (AT4G25140) was fused to GFP under the control of the tapetal‐specific AT5G07530 promoter (ASOGFP‐1, Fig. 1b) and transformed into Arabidopsis to determine whether the seed oleosin NF‐GFP translational fusion would also find its way to the pollen coat. Equivalent OLE1 NF‐GUS fusions were shown to be targeted correctly to the ER (Abell et al., CITATION) and to oil bodies in seeds (Van Rooijen & Moloney, CITATION). The anthers of Arabidopsis lines expressing ASOGFP‐1 displayed a pattern of GFP fluorescence in the anther and pollen coat (Fig. 7b,e,h,k) that was very similar to that observed for ATOGFP‐6.  To determine the subcellular localization of the NF‐GFP fusions, immunogold labeling experiments were performed using the GFP antibody on anther tissues expressing ATOGFP‐6 or ASOGFP‐1. Results obtained with ATOGFP‐6 showed gold particles in the tapetosomes that were not necessarily associated with the ‘strings of beads’ and were often located on light grey stacks (Fig. 8a), whereas later they were reproducibly found within the mature pollen coat (Fig. 8b) although at a lower number than with ATOGFP‐5 (Fig. 5c,d). Interestingly, the tapetosomes found in Arabidopsis lines expressing ATOGFP‐6 remained small, reminiscent of the earlier stages of tapetosome development (Fig. 5a). Given that ATOGFP‐6 differs from ATOGFP‐5 only by the absence of the CD, it is likely that the phenotype is due to the replacement of the CD by GFP and that the CD is thus important to tapetosome biogenesis. Interestingly, Arabidopsis lines lacking AT5G07530 were shown to have smaller tapetosomes (Huang et al., 2013a) and ATOGFP‐6 could notionally be viewed as a defective AT5G07530.  [[FIGURE]] Immunolabeling results obtained with ASOGFP‐1 demonstrated that the seed oleosin NF does target GFP specifically to the tapetosome with the majority of the gold particles associated with the light grey stacks and not the ‘strings of beads’ (Fig. 8c). However, unlike ATOGFP‐6, the ASOGFP‐1 mature tapetal cells contained large tapetosomes of normal appearance. The GFP protein could later be detected within the pollen coat of Arabidopsis lines expressing ASOGFP‐1 (Fig. 8d). The light grey stacks were often found in close association with the ‘strings of beads’ when these were present and may correspond to a different form of the ER‐derived network or sectioned perspective. Quilichini et al. (CITATION) used cryo‐fixation of Arabidopsis tapetosomes to reveal their complex internal organization which they described as bundles of tightly associated linear tubes occurring within an intricate matrix of coiled fibrils and these might correspond to the light grey stacks and ER‐derived network.  Targeting within the tapetosomes appears to be affected in lines expressing the NF‐GFP fusions and this may be due to the fact that GFP cannot fully mimic the CD, for example, it provides a more hydrophobic context in the first 20 amino acids immediately following the HD than is found in the oleosin or T‐oleosins used in this study. This difference may affect the strong interaction with the phospholipid layer described above and impede proper LD formation. Whether tapetosomes get larger by individually expanding, fusing together or both, it is evident that expression of the ATOGFP‐6 fusion causes the majority to remain discrete and small. If ATOGFP‐6 reaches a certain level around an LD, it is possible that it interrupts stable LD expansion by modifying T‐oleosin protein–protein or protein–phospholipid interactions. Another possibility could be that ATOGFP‐6 prevents LD fusion‐mediated expansion and the inability of LDs to fuse might in turn be important to tapetosome fusion. A recent study has implicated specific oleosins in the control of seed LD fusion (Miquel et al., CITATION). Interestingly, OLE1 used in ASOGFP‐1 was shown to prevent LD fusion and yet, unlike ATOGFP‐6, transgenic lines expressing the ASOGFP‐1 NF had large tapetosomes. It is conceivable that a full length OLE1 is necessary to prevent fusion, that it does not function similarly in tapetosomes, or that tapetosomal LDs do not fuse at all. Nevertheless, how does one account for the variation in the tapetosome phenotype between plants expressing ATOGFP‐6 and ASOGFP‐1? The main difference between the NFs from AT5G07530 and OLE1 is the presence of a stretch of 20 amino acids high in hydrophobic residues in the AT5G07530 ND just before the conserved HD that is absent in the hydrophilic OLE1 ND (Fig. S1). An N‐terminal hydrophobic ‘extension’ of the conserved HD is present in most Arabidopsis tapetal T‐oleosins and in fact short NDs tend to be mostly hydrophobic (AT5G07510 (T1, ATGRP14), AT5G07520 (T2, ATGRP18), AT5G07540 (T4, ATGRP16), AT5G07550 (T5, ATGRP19) and AT5G07600 (T7) (results not shown)) and not truly hydrophilic/amphipathic as prescribed by the archetype oleosin. Presumably this would significantly alter their topology on the ER which could in turn impact LD formation (Beaudoin & Napier, CITATION; Abell et al., CITATION) especially given that some of these T‐oleosins are relatively abundant (Huang et al., 2013a). Further investigations will be required to test whether a hydrophobic extension of the HD in the NF plays a role in tapetosome formation.  Western blot analyses were performed to confirm the fluorescence microscopy and immunolabeling results obtained with the NF‐GFP fusions. Earlier in development, the GFP antibody detected both the ATOGFP‐6 (41.7 kD) and ASOGFP‐1 fusions (39 kD) at close to their expected molecular masses (Fig. 9a, asterisks), but later the ATOGFP‐6 fusion was mostly cleaved to release the GFP protein. The presence of GFP within the pollen coat (Fig. 9a, arrow) again implies that the cleavage of ATOGFP‐6 occurred following the transfer of the fusion to the pollen, whereas its absence with ASOGFP‐1 suggests that either the cleavage site was absent or the fusion was inaccessible to the protease. As there is very little similarity among all the constructs in the sequences preceding GFP, congruent upstream cleavage is difficult to rationalize although this dissimilarity might explain the varying degrees of GFP cleavage.  [[FIGURE]] A comparison of the intensity of the uncleaved protein bands cross‐reacting with the GFP antibody early in development in lines expressing ATOGFP‐3 (Fig. 6a), ATOGFP‐6 or ASOGFP‐1 (Fig. 9a) which are similar in size, indicates that differences in the level of fusion protein expression in the transgenic plants analyzed may not account entirely for the lower GFP fluorescence and immunogold labeling obtained with the NF‐GFP fusions. This is further supported by the fact that both ATOGFP‐6 and ASOGFP‐1 have equivalent if not higher levels of transcripts than ATOGFP‐5 (results not shown). Although the NF‐GFP fusions may have lower immuno‐reactivity or accessibility in situ, they do not appear to be expressly degraded. In fact, marker fusion may protect the NF from degradation and targeting to the pollen coat may be associated with remaining TAGs found there (Hsieh & Huang, CITATION). Western blot analysis with the CD antibody gave results equivalent to those obtained with untransformed plants (Fig. 6b) as ATOGFP‐6 and ASOGFP‐1 lack this domain (results not shown). Analysis using the AT5G07530 ND antibody detected the ATOGFP‐6 fusion (Fig. 9b, asterisk), although the NF was not detected in the anther or pollen coat following cleavage of the GFP protein. Weakly hybridizing protein bands that may have represented the NF were analyzed by mass spectrometry but yielded different proteins (results not shown). An antibody raised against the ND of BnOlnB;1 also failed to detect the NF following tapetal degeneration in B. napus (Hernández‐Pinzón et al., CITATION).  The effect on tapetosome development and targeting observed in the Arabidopsis lines expressing the NF‐GFP fusions prompted the immunolabeling analysis of lines expressing TOG‐3 which is the equivalent Brassica BnOlnB;4 NF fusion but with the CD replaced by GUS as opposed to GFP. Gold particles associated with the GUS antibody showed an unexpected distribution in TOG‐3 tapetal cells. Earlier in development, a large number of particles were spread throughout the cell associating with what appeared to be the ER, whereas few were found in young tapetosomes (Fig. 10a). Later in tapetum development, the signal was less dispersed and associated with unusual structures (Fig. 10b) appearing to be dense accumulations of ER (Fig. S2), with again little signal detected within what seemed like normal large mature tapetosomes. These results suggest that ER containing the TOG‐3 fusion is largely excluded from normal tapetosome development and it is tempting to speculate that the defect observed with TOG‐3 reflects an inability to form LDs as no electron translucent lipids are evident within the immunoreactive ER agglomerations. The formation of the ER agglomerations may be an exaggerated version of ER cisternae converging to form tapetosome‐forming centers and supports the premise that T‐oleosins are involved in the amalgamation of ER cisternae at these centers. In view of the fact that GUS activity can be detected on the pollen of lines transformed with TOG‐3 despite little signal being associated with the tapetosomes (Fig. 2c), it is possible that some GUS enzyme is relocated to the pollen coat either via association with components of the ER agglomerations or the persistence of the NF fusion following tapetal degeneration.  [[FIGURE]] ATOGFP‐6 and TOG‐3 NF fusions had more noticeable effects on tapetosome development than ASOGFP‐1 consisting of the seed oleosin NF. As mentioned above, the HDs from AT5G07530 and BnOlnB;4 are quite similar and this similarity does extend to the HD hydrophobic ‘extension’, in fact it is the only region of the ND showing significant similarity (Fig. S1A). Given that plants expressing TOG‐2, the GUS fusion to the full length BnOlnB;4, seemed to have normal tapetosomes (Foster et al., CITATION), the defect in TOG‐3 is likely due to the replacement of the CD with GUS. Generally, GUS is larger and more amphipathic than the hydrophilic BnOlnB;4 CD and this might contribute to the TOG‐3 phenotype, although replacing the seed oleosin OLE1 hydrophilic CD with GUS did not prevent targeting to oil bodies (Van Rooijen & Moloney, CITATION). To evaluate the possible effect of the size of the GUS protein on the tapetosome phenotype, immunolabeling analysis was performed on tapetal cells of ATOG‐3, which is equivalent to ATOGFP‐3 but with GUS fused to the full‐length AT5G07550 rather than GFP. ATOGFP‐3 showed normal tapetosome development (Fig. 5a), but ATOG‐3 exhibited immunoreactive ER agglomerations very similar to those observed with TOG‐3 (Fig. 10c), but unlike TOG‐3, more gold particles were found associated with the tapetosomes. These results suggest that when comparing ATOGFP‐3 and ATOG‐3, the greater size of the GUS protein compared to GFP can hinder normal ER involvement in tapetosome biogenesis and cause ER agglomerations where T‐oleosins accumulate. ATOG‐3 therefore seems to be an intermediate phenotype between TOG‐3 and ATOGFP‐3. These different phenotypes not only reveal the complexity of the involvement of the T‐oleosin domains in tapetosome formation, but also validate the value of T‐oleosin/marker fusions in dissecting this process.  Lastly, to ascertain whether some of the observed tapetal phenotypes were correlated with differences in pollen coat deposition, mature pollen grains from plants expressing the different T‐oleosin fusion constructs were examined by TEM in the presence of osmium. Most lines displayed pollen coats that appeared similar to that of untransformed plants. The pollen coat seems quite tolerant to T‐oleosin compositional changes as a deletion completely removing AT5G07530 seemed to have no effect on its appearance (Mayfield & Preuss, CITATION). Nonetheless, ATOGFP‐6 did show differences from untransformed plants in that the pollen coat was often difficult to fix even in the presence of osmium and when fully fixed often showed differences in intine appearance (Fig. S3). The effect on the intine is reminiscent of the phenotype observed in transgenic Arabidopsis lines with reduced levels of tapetal Type III lipid transfer proteins that become part of the pollen coat (Huang et al., 2013b).  Novel insight into the proteolytic processing and subcellular targeting of the highly variable T‐oleosins was obtained using marker protein fusions expressed in the tapetum of transgenic Arabidopsis. This approach also revealed the critical role of individual T‐oleosin domains in tapetosome formation and should represent an invaluable tool in deciphering this evidently complex process. 
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh Columbia was grown in growth cabinets under a 16 h light/8 h dark regime at 20°C and 70% humidity. Arabidopsis transformation was performed according to Clough & Bent (CITATION). Large and small scale pollen collections were performed using vacuum suction essentially as described by Johnson‐Brousseau & McCormick (CITATION). Pollen as well as anthers harvested at different developmental stages were frozen immediately in liquid nitrogen and stored at −80°C. The pollen coat was obtained by resuspending pollen in cyclohexane and centrifuging at 2700 g for 1 min in a 45 μm Costar Spin‐X tube (Corning) twice. The cyclohexane fraction was dried under a nitrogen stream and the pellet washed 3 times with acetonitrile:tert‐Butyl methyl ether (1 : 3, v/v). Following centrifugation at 2700 g for 5 min, the protein was dried and resuspended in 1X SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) Loading Buffer (60 mM Tris pH 6.8, 2% SDS, 10% (v/v) glycerol, bromophenol blue, 3.3% (v/v) β‐mercaptoethanol) for protein electrophoresis.  The construction of the transcriptional fusions between the T‐oleosin BnOlnB;4 promoter and GUS (SGC‐1), the pollen‐specific polygalacturonase Sta44 promoter and GUS (POG‐1), as well as the C‐terminal translational fusion between BnOln;4 and GUS (TOG‐2) have been reported previously (Foster et al., CITATION). The details of the construction of the other translational fusions (Fig. 1) are presented in Supporting Information Methods S1.  [[FIGURE]] Histochemical GUS staining of pollen was performed as described previously (Foster et al., CITATION). To observe GUS activity in anthers, tissues were fixed in 4% (w/v) paraformaldehyde, 2.5% (v/v) glutaraldehyde, 3% (w/v) sucrose in 0.01 M NaPO4 buffer pH 7.2 at room temperature (RT) for 10 h. Tissues were then transferred to a solution of 1.0% (w/v) paraformaldehyde, 0.5% (v/v) glutaraldehyde, 20% (w/v) sucrose in 0.01 M NaPO4 pH 7.2 for 4 d at 4°C. Tissues were washed in the same buffer at 4°C and transferred to 20% sucrose in buffer before freezing in Tissue‐Tek® CRYO‐O.C.T. compound (Electron Microscopy Sciences, Hatfield, PA, USA). Sections of 14 μm were cut at −20°C with Reichert‐Jung Cryocut E (Leica Microsystems, Vienna, Austria) and visualized using the Zeiss Axioplan 2 Imaging microscope with an EC Plan‐Neofluar ×40/0.75 objective, an AxioCam HRc and Axio Vision software 4.8.1.  CLSM was performed with a Zeiss LSM 510 DUO using either a Plan APOCHROMAT ×40/1.4 or a FLUAR ×20/0.75 objective and the ZEN 2009 SP2 software. To visualize GFP and chlorophyll in fresh anthers or pollen grains, samples were observed using 488 nm excitation and emission band‐pass (BP) 505–530 nm and long‐pass (LP) 650 nm filters, respectively. For single anther locule visualisation of GFP and cell walls, anthers were processed using a Pelco Biowave® 34700 microwave (Ted Pella, Redding, CA, USA). Fixations were done in 4.0% (w/v) paraformaldehyde, 0.8% (v/v) glutaraldehyde, 100 mM NaPO4 pH 7.2, under vacuum for 1 h at RT and then microwaved at 250 W at ≤ 37°C for 1 min at 0%, 40 s at 100% and 3 min at 0% power. Samples were rinsed four times with 100 mM NaPO4 pH 7.2 and dehydrated through an ethanol series at 30, 50, 70, 80, 90, 95, and 100%. Each dehydration step was microwaved at 250 W at ≤ 37°C for 45 s at 100% power. Infiltration was performed three times in pure LR White resin (Electron Microscopy Sciences, Hatfield, PA, USA) at 450 W at ≤ 43°C, 100% power, 2.5 min. All steps were performed under vacuum with the exception of dehydration. Polymerisation was done for 24 h at 55°C in a conventional oven. Embedded tissues were sectioned 1 μm thick and stained with 0.07% Calcofluor White M2R (American Cyanamid Co). Cell walls and GFP were observed with 405 nm excitation and emission BP 420–490 and 505–530 nm, respectively.  Immunogold labeling experiments were analyzed with a TEM Hitachi H‐7000 equipped with an ORIUS SC200 digital camera using Digital Micrograph software version 1.8.3 (Gatan Inc., Pleasanton, CA, USA). To prepare mature pollen samples, c. 30 open flowers from a single plant were collected in a tube and protected from light for 2–6 d at RT. Flowers were vortexed in acetonitrile and discarded. The released pollen was centrifuged at 4300 g for 2 min and the pollen pellet was dried briefly and covered with 1.5% (w/v) agarose in 50 mM cacodylate buffer pH 7.2. The agarose plug was cut into blocks (< 2 mm3) and kept on ice in the same buffer. Microwave processing was adapted from Russin & Trivett (CITATION) with all steps performed under vacuum (> 20 mm Hg) at 750 W and a restriction temperature ≤ 40°C. Modifications included performing both microwave fixations in 2.5% (w/v) paraformaldehyde, 2.5% (v/v) glutaraldehyde, 0.05% (v/v) Tween‐20, 50 mM cacodylate pH 7.2, for 1 min 0%, 40 s 100%, 3 min 0% power, as well as using ethanol in the dehydration series (30%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, 100% twice each step) for 45 s 100% power. The pollen samples were processed three times with 100% LR White resin by microwaving for 2.5 min at 100% power. The resin was then polymerised in a conventional oven at 55°C for 24 h.  Pollen and anthers prepared as described in the CLSM section were sectioned at a 100 nm thickness and collected onto grids. The grids were treated with 1% (w/v) glycine in PBS (10 mM NaPO4 pH 7.4, 149 mM NaCl) for 30 min. They were then washed 3 × 5 min in PBS and blocked with 2.5% (w/v) bovine serum albumin (BSA), 1.0% (v/v) Tween‐20, 0.1% (v/v) fish gelatin in PBS for 15 min. The rabbit primary antibody was added at 1 : 100 (v/v) in 2.5% (w/v) BSA, 1.0% (v/v) Tween® 20 in PBS overnight at 4°C. The grids were washed 3 × 5 min in PBS before they were reacted with 15 nm colloidal gold labeled goat anti‐rabbit secondary antibody (Abcam, Toronto, ON, Canada) at 1 : 20 (v/v) in 2.5% (w/v) BSA, 1.0% (v/v) Tween‐20 in PBS for 1 h. The grids were then washed 2 × 5 min in PBS and finally with water before staining 12 min with 5% (w/v) uranyl acetate. Rabbit primary antibodies against GFP and GUS were obtained commercially (Molecular Probes A11122 and A5790, respectively).  For TEM analysis of osmium‐fixed pollen coats, mature anthers were fixed as described for mature pollen grains in the TEM section but following a 30 min incubation in 0.1% OsO4 in cacodylate buffer.  Anther protein extractions were performed by disruption in 1× SDS‐PAGE loading buffer at RT. SDS‐PAGE was performed in 12% (w/v) acrylamide and gels transferred to PVDF membranes (BioRad) in transfer buffer (25 mM Tris, 192 mM glycine, 20% (v/v) methanol) for 85 min at 100 V. Membranes were conditioned in 100% methanol and blocked at RT for 1–16 h at 4°C in 1% (w/v) Blocking Reagent (Roche) in TBST (20 mM Tris, 150 mM NaCl pH 7.6 with 0.05% (v/v) Tween® 20). The membrane was first incubated in primary antibody (1 : 1000) in 0.5% (w/v) Blocking Reagent solution at RT for 2 h and washed 5 × 10 min with TBST, then with HRP‐conjugated goat anti‐rabbit secondary antibody (1 : 20 000, BioRad) in TBST containing 0.5% (w/v) Blocking Reagent at RT for 1 h. The blot was washed 5 × 10 min TBST and the chemiluminescence reaction was performed using the ECL Plus Western Blotting Detection System. Synthesis of peptides from the N‐ and C‐terminal regions flanking the hydrophobic domain of AT5G07530 (ATGRP17‐NF: LREGRNRFPFLSLSC, ATGRP17‐CF: LIKKSKAKSKGGLKAWC) and the corresponding rabbit primary antibody preparations were performed by Sigma Genosys (Oakville, ON, Canada). Both peptides are unique to AT5G07530 and not found within the other Arabidopsis T‐oleosins. 
