!~ABS~! In this study we report the molecular genetic characterization of the Arabidopsis mitochondrial phosphopantetheinyl transferase (mtPPT), which catalyzes the phosphopantetheinylation and thus activation of mitochondrial acyl carrier protein (mtACP) of mitochondrial fatty acid synthase (mtFAS). This catalytic capability of the purified mtPPT protein (encoded by AT3G11470) was directly demonstrated in an in vitro assay that phosphopantetheinylated mature Arabidopsis apo-mtACP isoforms. The mitochondrial localization of the AT3G11470-encoded proteins was validated by the ability of their N-terminal 80-residue leader sequence to guide a chimeric GFP protein to this organelle. A T-DNA-tagged null mutant mtppt-1 allele shows an embryo-lethal phenotype, illustrating a crucial role of mtPPT for embryogenesis. Arabidopsis RNAi transgenic lines with reduced mtPPT expression display typical phenotypes associated with a deficiency in the mtFAS system, namely miniaturized plant morphology, slow growth, reduced lipoylation of mitochondrial proteins, and the hyperaccumulation of photorespiratory intermediates, glycine and glycolate. These morphological and metabolic alterations are reversed when these plants are grown in a non-photorespiratory condition (i.e. 1% CO2 atmosphere), demonstrating that they are a consequence of a deficiency in photorespiration due to the reduced lipoylation of the photorespiratory glycine decarboxylase.
!~RES~! Candidate Arabidopsis PPT proteins were identified based on sequence similarity shared with a typical Group I PPT [i.e. E. coli AcpS (Lambalot and Walsh, CITATION)] and a typical Group II PPT [i.e. Bacillus subtilis Sfp (Nakano et al., CITATION)]. BLASTP analysis with the E. coli ACPS failed to identify any significant Arabidopsis homolog (the largest e-value is 3.5), possibly indicating the lack of a Group I PPT in plants. Parallel analysis with Bacillus subtilis Sfp identified two significant homologs, AT3G11470 (e-value = 4 × 10−16) and AT2G02770 (e-value = 6 × 10−11). The ORFs of AT3G11470 were isolated via an RT-PCR method with RNA template isolated from aerial organs of young seedlings using primers adjoining the predicted ‘ATG’ start codon and the translational stop codon. The resulting PCR products were cloned and sequence-confirmed. Three types of ORF sequences were recovered (AT3G11470.1, AT3G11470.2 and AT3G11470.3), which are predicted to be products of some type of alternative splicing variant mechanism (Figure S1). Based on the ratio of the 18 clones that were recovered, these alternative splice variants would appear to accumulate at a ratio of 5:2:2, with AT3G11470.1 being the most abundant transcript. The three splicing variants AT3G11470.1, AT3G11470.2 and AT3G11470.3 are the result of alternative slicing that occurs in removing the second intron. In the case of the first two variants alternative 5-nucleotides are maintained in the mature mRNA that originate from the second and third exons (Figure S1), resulting in proteins of 300 amino acids, that differ from each other by the two amino acid residues at positions 88 and 89 (‘YQ’ in protein AT3G11470.1 versus ‘CM’ in protein AT3G11470.2) (Figure 1). Both of these ORFs contain an identical N-terminal 30 residue extension as compared with the Bacillus subtilis Sfp protein (Figure 1). This extension is rich in basic amino acids, and lacks acidic amino acid residues, which are features of mitochondrial targeting presequences. Analyses with PSORT (with a score of 0.72) (Nakai and Horton, CITATION), TargetP (12 residues at N-terminal with a score of 0.65) (Nielsen et al., CITATION; Emanuelsson et al., CITATION) and MitoProt II (30 residues at N-terminal with a score of 0.63) (Claros and Vincens, CITATION) predict that proteins encoded by ORF AT3G11470.1 and AT3G11470.2 are mitochondrially localized. [[FIGURE]] In contrast, the AT3G11470.3 transcript deletes five nucleotides in the splicing of the second intron (Figure S1). Translation of the resulting transcript begins at a down-stream ‘ATG’ codon relative to that of AT3G11470.1 and AT3G11470.2, and the resulting protein is 231 residues in length. The AT3G11470.3 protein is therefore smaller than the AT3G11470.1 and AT3G11470.2 proteins, and although the about the same length as the Bacillus subtilis Sfp protein, the N-terminus is truncated relative to the Sfp protein (Figure 1). The start codon of AT3G11470.3 lacks a typical Kozak sequence for efficient translation [a adenine (A) at position −3, and guanine (G) at position +4 (Kozak, CITATION)]. PSORT predicts that the AT3G11470.3 protein is cytoplasmically located (with a score of 0.45), and TargetP and MitoProt II indicate that it is not targeted to an organelle. The gene model for the second Arabidopsis Sfp homolog, encoded by AT2G02770, predicts a protein that fuses an N-terminal COP1 interacting protein domain with a C-terminal Sfp-like PPT domain (Copp and Neilan, CITATION). The PPT domain of the predicted AT2G02770 protein shares 73% similarity and 67% identity with the mtPPT protein encoded by AT3G11470.1 (Figure 1). However, AT2G02770 transcript could not be detected by RT-PCR using several AT2G02770-specific primer sets with RNA templates isolated from many different organs, including aerial organs, roots, flowers, siliques, and rosette leaves. A T-DNA-tagged mutant allele (SALK_152625C) of AT2G02770 was identified in which the insertion resides in the COP1 interacting protein domain (Figure S2a). In laboratory growth conditions there is no detectable morphological difference between this mutant line and the segregated wild-type siblings (Figure S2b). Given the lack of phenotypic alterations in this mutant and the failure to detect AT2G02770-derived transcripts, we conclude that this is a pseudogene, which may have originated from a gene duplication event of AT3G11470. We therefore primarily focused on defining the functions of the AT3G11470 locus. In vitro biochemical assays were performed with the recombinant proteins encoded by all 3 AT3G11470-encoded ORFs. These assays tested whether these proteins are capable of catalyzing the phosphopantetheinylation of recombinant ACP isoforms. Given the putative mitochondrial localization of the AT3G11470.1 and AT3G11470.2 proteins, we purified the mature forms of these proteins that lacked the N-terminal 12 amino acid residues that were computationally identified as the mitochondrial presequence, which is usually removed after import into the organelle (Kmiec et al., CITATION). We note that recombinant expression of the full-length AT3G11470.1 and AT3G11470.2 proteins in E. coli resulted in their accumulation in the insoluble inclusion bodies, whereas the mature forms were partially soluble (~10–20%) and catalytically active. Computational analysis of the full-length AT3G11470.3 protein revealed the absence of any N-terminal mitochondrial targeting sequence, and thus this predicted full-length protein was recombinantly expressed in E. coli, purified and used in catalytic enzyme assays. As with the two other isoforms, ~10–20% of the recombinant AT3G11470.3 protein was recovered in the soluble fraction, and purified for enzymatic characterization. The mature forms of three recombinant apo-mtACP isoforms [i.e. mtACP1 (AT2G44620), mtACP2 (AT1G65290) and mtACP3 (AT5G47630) (Shintani and Ohlrogge, CITATION; Meyer et al., CITATION)] were used as substrates in these assays (Figure S3). As illustrated in Figure 2, MALDI-QTOF analyses of E. coli-expressed mature mtACP isoforms confirm that these protein preparations are recovered primarily in the apo-form (>85%). To ensure that these apo-mtACP preparations are free of any contaminating phosphopantetheinylating enzyme activity (co-purified from E. coli extracts), each preparation was incubated with CoA in the absence of any putative plant-derived PPT enzymes, and this did not affect the phosphopantetheinylation status of the apo-mtACPs. However, parallel incubations in the presence of recombinant proteins encoded by AT3G11470.1 or AT3G11470.2 resulted in the near complete conversion of apo-mtACP to holo-mtACP (between 75 and 80%). In contrast, the recombinant protein encoded by AT3G11470.3 did not affect this phosphopantetheinylation of apo-mtACPs. [[FIGURE]] These data establish that the proteins encoded by AT3G11470.1 and AT3G11470.2 are functional PPT enzymes that are capable of phosphopantetheinylating all three tested apo-mtACP isoforms. The inability of the AT3G11470.3 protein to catalyze this reaction indicates that the N-terminal domain, which occurs in AT3G11470.1 and AT3G11470.2 proteins, but is missing in AT3G11470.3, is essential for the catalytic function. We also tested whether these PPT proteins can catalyze the phosphopantetheinylation of the pre-protein forms of mtACPs, which still contain the N-terminal mitochondrial targeting presequence (Figure S4). Proteins encoded by all three AT3G11470 ORFs failed to catalyze this modification reaction with pre-apo-mtACP1 as the substrate. This result indicates that the leader mitochondrial presequence of mtACP1 inhibits this modification reaction. Attempts to similarly test the substrate suitability of pre-apo-mtACP2 and mtACP3 could not be conducted because these latter pre-proteins either did not express in E. coli (pre-apo-mtACP2), or they expressed in insoluble form (pre-apo-mtACP3), and could not be recovered for such assays. Transgene experiments with GFP-tagged fusion proteins were used to experimentally determine the subcellular localization of the proteins encoded by AT3G11470.1 and AT3G11470.2 ORFs. In these experiments, we tested the ability of the N-terminal 80-residue peptide coding sequence that is identical for both AT3G11470.1 and AT3G11470.2 proteins to target the localization of GFP. Figure 3 presents confocal micrographs obtained from the leaf mesophyll cells and roots of the resulting GFP transgenic plants. Chlorophyll autofluorescence was recorded simultaneously in mesophyll cells, and MitoTracker Orange (a mitochondrial marker) was applied and recorded in roots. Mesophyll cells and roots of the wild-type controls do not exhibit any fluorescence matching to GFP. GFP-fluorescence signal was obtained from the mesophyll cells of transgenic plants carrying the PPT–GFP transgene, and this was localized to discrete subcellular organelle-like features, which are distinct from the chlorophyll autofluorescence, illustrating that the PPT–GFP fusion protein is not localized to chloroplasts. In contrast, the fluorescence of the negative control, 35S promoter-driven GFP, which is known to localize to the cytosol and nucleus (Li et al., CITATION), is distinct from that of the PPT–GFP fusion protein. Examination of the distribution of the fluorescence recovered in roots of the PPT–GFP transgenic plants shows a clear overlap with the signals obtained with MitoTracker Orange. We therefore conclude that proteins encoded by AT3G11470.1 and AT3G11470.2 localize to mitochondria, and this targeting is directed by the N-terminal 80-residue leader sequence of these proteins. [[FIGURE]] Taken together, these results establish that the gene locus AT3G11470 encodes a mitochondrial PPT enzyme (mtPPT), which phosphopantetheinylates the mature apo-mtACP isoforms, but cannot phosphopantetheinylate pre-apo-mtACP. Hence, the phosphopantetheinylation of mtACP is a process that has to occur within the organelle, following import from the cytosol. BLASTP analysis of the predicted proteomes of 50 different plant species whose genomes are sequenced was conducted by using the query amino acid sequence of the Arabidopsis mtPPT protein encoded by ORF AT3G11470.1. These analyses identified 99 homologs with e-values <1 × 10−4. Figure 4 shows the classification of these plant homologs relative to the amino acid sequences of the 52 characterized PPT enzymes that are known to define five separate clades of this family of enzymes [i.e. Sfp, Lys5, AcpS, EntD, and HetI clades (Beld et al., CITATION)]. Plant homologs fall into two of these previously defined clades. The Arabidopsis mtPPT protein, and 56 different plant-sourced PPT homologs are associated with the Sfp clade. These PPT homologs are found in all plant genomes that were examined, and these occur either as a single-copy gene or two significant homologs (>50% identity to each other) per genome. In contrast, 43 plant PPT-like proteins are associated with the Lys5 clade. These PPT-like homologs are not uniformly found in all sequenced plant genomes, being absent from Arabidopsis thaliana, Arabidopsis lyrata, Camelina sativa, Capsella rubella, Brassica rapa, Brassica napus, Eutrema salsugineum, and Malus domestica. These PPT-like proteins are similar in size to the cytosolic yeast Lys5 protein and human AASDHPPT (i.e. do not appear to contain any leader organelle targeting sequence), and computationally they are predicted to be cytosolic. [[FIGURE]] The spatial and temporal expression pattern of the mtPPT gene was determined using two complementary methods, qRT-PCR and promoter::GUS transgenic analysis. qRT-PCR analysis of RNA preparations extracted from different organs shows that the expression of mtPPT gene occurs in all organs tested (Figure 5a). There is an approximately two fold difference between highest and lowest expression levels. [[FIGURE]] In the complementary promoter::GUS experiment, GUS expression was driven by the mtPPT promoter that encompasses 2.3 kb DNA sequence upstream of the ‘ATG’ start codon of ORFs AT3G11470.1 (Figure 5b). GUS activity staining occurs highest in the vascular systems of young seedlings and flowers. In the flowers, highest GUS staining is concentrated in the sepals and stigma, whereas activity in petals and anthers is at lower levels. In the siliques, GUS activity is mainly focused in the pedicel, carpel and septum, and activity is lower in the enclosed developing seeds and funiculi. These patterns of mtPPT expression are consistent with the publically available microarray data visualized by the Arabidopsis eFP-Browser (Schmid et al., CITATION; Winter et al., CITATION). The physiological significance of the mtPPT gene was investigated by segregating and analyzing three T-DNA-tagged mutant alleles. These alleles [mtppt-1 (GABI_790G04), mtppt-2 (SALK_089901) and mtppt-3 (SALK_074379C)], which were identified by searching the SALK Insertion Sequence Database (http://signal.salk.edu), were obtained from NASC (www.arabidopsis.info) or ABRC (https://abrc.osu.edu). Molecular details of these three alleles are provided in Figure S5(a). The T-DNA insertions in alleles mtppt-2 and mtppt-3 are located in the 5′ UTR area of the mtPPT gene. qRT-PCR analyses show that the expression levels of the mtPPT mRNA is unaffected by these insertions, and these mutants do not exhibit any detectable phenotype (Figure S5b). In contrast, the T-DNA inserted in the mtppt-1 allele is located in the second exon. Upon selfing heterozygous lines that carry the mtppt-1 allele, no homozygous mutant progeny could be recovered. However, homozygous wild-type and heterozygous progeny were recovered at a ratio of 1:2.8 (31 wild-type and 86 heterozygous plants). The chi-squared test indicates that this ratio is consistent with the Mendelian segregation of a recessive homozygous lethal allele. Indeed, examination of developing seeds within siliques of individual heterozygous plants displays an atypically large number of aborted or aborting seeds (Figure 6a). In the siliques of mtppt-1 heterozygous plants approximately 26% of the fertilized seeds aborted during development (i.e. 116 out of 448 developing seeds were aborted/aborting among 8 siliques examined), whereas no such aborted seeds were observed in the wild-type sibling plants (0 out of 432 developing seeds examined among 8 different siliques). Based on the near 3:1 segregation ratio of normal versus aborted/aborting seeds in the siliques of mtppt-1 heterozygous plants, we deduce that the aborted/aborting seeds are due to the mtppt-1/mtppt-1 genotype, being consistent with an embryo-lethal phenotype. [[FIGURE]] Differential interference contrast microscopy was used to analyze the progression of embryogenesis in the aberrantly developing seeds in the siliques of mtppt-1 heterozygous mutant plants (i.e. the mtppt-1 homozygous seeds), and these were compared to the normally developing seeds in the wild-type siblings (Figure 6b). While normal embryo development is observed in the seeds of the latter, development of the embryos in the white aborting seeds of the mtppt-1 heterozygous plants are arrested at the globular stage. Transgenic complementation with the 35S::mtPPT-YFP transgene was conducted to directly test whether the embryo-lethal phenotype is due to the mtppt-1 allele. This transgene was transformed into heterozygous mtppt-1 plants, and 67 segregants were recovered and genotyped at the T2 generation. Seven of these recovered plants were homozygous for the mtppt-1 allele, all of which also carried the P35S::mtPPT-YFP transgene (Figure S6a, b). Three of these seven plants were visually indistinguishable from wild-type plants grown under the laboratory conditions; the vegetative growth of other four recovered plants was also normal, but no seeds were recovered. These findings therefore establish that the ectopic expression of the mtPPT-YFP transgene complements the embryo-lethality of the mtppt-1 allele, enabling the recovery of mature, normal growing plants that are homozygous for the mtppt-1 allele. The phosphopantetheinylation of mtACP fulfills the need to support mtFAS function. We envisioned therefore that the embryo-lethal phenotype associated with the mtppt-1 allele may be rescuable by chemical complementation, as is the case with mutations in the mtKAS gene (Ewald et al., CITATION). Specifically, the latter mutations are rescuable by growing plants in an elevated CO2 atmosphere, which overcomes the photorespiration deficiency associated with the inability to produce sufficient lipoic acid cofactor for glycine decarboxylase complex (GDC). We therefore attempted to grow heterozygous mtppt-1 plants in the presence of external chemicals, which may be able to overcome this deficiency; specifically a 1% CO2 atmosphere, or watering plants with a lipoic acid solution (1 mm). Figure S7(a) shows developing seeds within siliques of sibling plants grown in the 1% CO2 atmosphere that are either wild-type or heterozygous for the mtppt-1 allele. Whereas all seeds (322 developing seeds examined among 8 siliques) matured normally in the wild-type plants, about 24% (76 out of 315 developing seeds examined in 8 siliques) of the seeds in the mtppt-1 mutant plants failed to develop normally, as occured when these plants were grown in a normal atmosphere (Figure 6a). Similar data were obtained with plants watered with lipoic acid (Figure S7b). Although the latter findings may be explainable by the inability of the plant to uptake and transport lipoic acid to the site required to rescue embryo development, the fact that the elevated CO2 atmosphere could not overcome this deficiency indicates that phosphopantetheinylated mtACP and thus possibly mtFAS play a crucial role in the successful development of viable embryos. Because of the embryo-lethality associated with the mtppt-1 allele, we were unable to analyze the role of mtPPT function during post-embryogenesis via the characterization of this allele. As an alternative, we generated RNAi transgene knockdown plants, which express a 35S promoter-driven suppressor of the mtPPT gene. Thirty-two independent RNAi lines were recovered, and the levels of mtPPT transcript were evaluated by qRT-PCR in the aerial organs of young seedlings at 16 days after imbibition (DAI). Two transgenic lines, which exhibit the lowest mtPPT expression levels, 7 ± 2% and 8 ± 3% of wild-type levels were designated as mtppt-rnai-1 and mtppt-rnai-2, respectively. These two mutant stocks exhibit a significantly reduced aerial organ size as compared to the wild-type plants when they are grown in ambient air (Figure 7). Growing these plants in an atmosphere enriched in CO2 (i.e. 1% CO2) reversed this reduced size of the aerial organs (Figure 7). As previously reported (Somerville and Ogren, CITATION), this phenotypic reversal by the 1% CO2 atmosphere is a trait typical of deficiencies in photorespiration, the elevated CO2 inhibiting synthesis of 2-phosphoglycolate by ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase. A similar photorespiratory phenotype also occurs in mutants that affect the mtFAS system (i.e. mtkas mutant alleles), which is associated with the under-lipoylation of H subunit of GDC (Ewald et al., CITATION). [[FIGURE]] We performed metabolic profiling analyses on the mtppt-rnai mutant stocks, focusing on the role of mtPPT in the mtFAS system. Because mtFAS generates the fatty acid precursor for lipoic acid biosynthesis (Ewald et al., CITATION), and the mtppt-rnai phenotype suggests a link to photorespiration via lipoylation of GDC, we mainly focused these analyses on determining protein lipoylation, and levels of fatty acids, amino acids, glycolate and sucrose. The protein lipoylation in the mtppt-rnai mutants was examined by western blot analysis with anti-lipoic acid and anti-H protein antibodies (Figure 8a, b). To eliminate the bias associated with the morphological appearance of the mtppt-rnai mutants, all plants used for these analyses were grown in the 1% CO2 atmosphere, where the mtppt-rnai-associated growth differences are eliminated. Analysis of protein extracts from wild-type and mtppt-rnai mutants by SDS-PAGE indicate that there are no dramatic differences in the expressed proteomes of these two sibling lines, but differences are revealed with more discriminating assays. The most dramatic alteration is the depletion of the lipoylation of H protein subunit of GDC. Specifically, whereas the immunologically detected levels of the H protein is unchanged in the two mtppt-rnai mutants, the lipoylation status of GDC is reduced to about 30% of wild-type levels. These western analyses also revealed additional three lipoylated proteins that occur in mitochondria and plastids: the E2 subunits of mitochondrial pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) and α-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase (KGDH), and E2 subunit of the plastidial PDH; the E2 subunit of branched-chain α-ketoacid dehydrogenase (BCKDH) was not detectable (Ewald et al., CITATION). Only the lipoylation of the mitochondrial proteins were reduced in the mtppt-rnai mutants (between 30 and 70% of the wild-type control), but lipoylation of the E2 subunit of the plastidial PDH was unaffected. These results substantiate that the mtFAS system generates the fatty acid precursor needed for lipoic acid biosynthesis, which appears to be restricted specifically for mitochondrial lipoylated proteins (Wada et al., CITATION; Ewald et al., CITATION); the source of lipoic acid for the lipoylation of plastidial protein occurs via a route that is independent of mtPPT and thus independent of mtFAS. [[FIGURE]] Metabolite profiles of the mtppt-rnai mutants show the disturbed metabolic state of these plants when they are grown in ambient air (Figure 9 for mtppt-rnai-1; and Figure S8 for mtppt-rnai-2). Despite the dramatic effects on growth morphology, changes in the most abundant fatty acids in these mutants are subtle (between 80 and 170% of the wild-type controls), which is consistent with the relatively minor role of mtFAS in contributing to the overall fatty acid pool of plant cells. The most dramatic metabolite changes are associated with photorespiratory metabolites, in accordance with the under-lipoylation of GDC, which contributes to the photorespiratory conversion of glycine to serine. Specifically, in the mtppt-rnai mutants glycine levels are elevated by about 30-fold, glycolate is increased by 1.5-fold, and sucrose levels are decreased to about 30% of wild-type levels, and several additional amino acids (e.g. aspartate and histidine) show more moderate alterations in accumulation (between 60 and 140% of wild-type levels). [[FIGURE]] When the plants are grown in an atmosphere of 1% CO2, where photorespiration is suppressed and growth phenotype of the mtppt-rnai mutants is reversed, most metabolic alterations also return to the wild-type levels, the exception being glycine. These findings indicate that the primary metabolic lesion associated with reduced mtPPT activity in seedlings is expressed via the under-lipoylation of GDC, which reduces photorespiration.
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis mtPPT (AT3G11470.1), mtACP1 (AT2G44620), mtACP2 (AT1G65290) and mtACP3 (AT5G47630) genes were chemically synthesized by GenScript (Piscataway, NJ, USA, http://www.genscript.com) after codon optimization for expression in E. coli (See Table S1 online for DNA sequences). For recombinant protein expression, these genes were cloned into the pET30b vector (EMD Millipore, Billerica, MA, USA, http://www.emdmillipore.com), and the resulting constructs were named mtPPTORF1–pET (primers T1–T2), mtPPTORF3–pET (primers T3–T2), mtACP1mature–pET (primers T4–T5), mtACP2mature–pET (primers T6–T7), mtACP3mature–pET (primers T8–T9), mtACP1pre–pET (primers T10–T5), mtACP2pre–pET (primers T11–T7), and mtACP3pre–pET (primers T12–T9). MtPPTORF2–pET was constructed from mtPPTORF1–pET (primers T13–T14) using QuickChange II Site-Directed Mutagenesis Kit (Agilent Technologies, Santa Clara, CA, USA, http://www.agilent.com) (See Table S2 online for primer sequences, and Table S3 online for information of plasmids). All nine constructs express recombinant proteins with a His-tag located at the C-terminus. Protein overexpression was performed in the E. coli BL21* strain (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA, www.thermofisher.com). His-tagged proteins were purified with Probond Nickel-Chelating Resin (Invitrogen). The phosphopantetheinylation reaction was carried out as described previously (Quadri et al., CITATION; Joshi et al., CITATION) with modifications. The reaction mixture (total volume of 200 μl) contained 100 mm Tris–HCl (pH 7.0), 10 mm MgCl2, 100 μm recombinant ACP, 500 μm CoA (EMD Millipore, Billerica, MA), and 1 μm recombinant PPT. The reaction was performed at 22°C for 20 min. Proteins were precipitated by adding 10% trichloroacetic acid (TCA). The redissolved ACP mixtures were analyzed using a MALDI-QTOF (Applied Biosystems QSTAR XL, http://www.thermofisher.com) system. The Arabidopsis genetic stocks carrying the mtppt-1 (GABI_790G04), mtppt-2 (SALK_074379C) and mtppt-3 (SALK_089901) alleles are all in Col-0 background. Confirmation of the insertion sites was performed using primers as following: T15–T16 (genome specific) and T17 (T-DNA specific) for mtppt-1, T18–T19 (genome specific) and T20 (T-DNA specific) for mtppt-2 and mtppt-3 (See Table S2 online for primer sequences). For the GFP experiments, the 5′ coding sequence of 80 amino acid residues of mtPPT was cloned with primers T21–T22, and the GFP-coding sequence was cloned with primers T23–T24. For the genetic complementation experiment, full-length mtPPT was cloned with primers T21–T25. For the GUS staining transgene experiment, mtPPT promoter area was cloned with primers T26–T27. For the RNAi experiment, cDNA fragment was cloned with primers T28–T29 (See Table S2 online for primer sequences). All the PCR products were cloned into pENTR/D-TOPO vector (Invitrogen), resulting in mtPPTN80–ENTR, GFP–ENTR, mtPPTfull–ENTR, mtPPTpromoter–ENTR, and mtPPT–RNAi–ENTR. These five sequences were further sub-cloned into destination vectors pEarleyGate103, pEarleyGate100, pEarleyGate101 (Earley et al., CITATION), pMDC163 (Curtis and Grossniklaus, CITATION), and pB7GWIWG2(II) (Karimi et al., CITATION) using Gateway LR Clonase II Enzyme Mix (Invitrogen), respectively, resulting in mtPPTN80–pEG103, GFP–pEG100, mtPPTfull–pEG101, mtPPTpromoter–pMDC163, and mtPPT–RNAi–WIWG2 (See Table S3 online for information of plasmids). All the destination plasmids were transformed into Arabidopsis Col-0 wild-type plants as previously described (Clough and Bent, CITATION). Seeds were sterilized and sown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) agar medium as describe previously (Jin et al., CITATION). For phenotypic analysis, plants were grown on plates in ambient air or in the 1% CO2 atmosphere (in a growth chamber). The growth conditions were maintained at 22°C with continuous illumination (photosynthetic photon flux density 100 μmol of photons m−2 sec−1). For complementation study of the embryo-lethal phenotype, plants were transferred to soil at 10 DAI, grown under constant illumination in ambient air or in the 1% CO2 atmosphere, and feed with water or 1 mm lipoic acid solution. Confocal microscopy was performed on the T3 generation of transgenic plants, which express GFP-fusion proteins. Seedling plants grown on MS plates were harvested at between 7 to 10 DAI for analysis. Roots were stained for 15 min in the MS medium containing 200 nm MitoTracker Orange (Invitrogen), and washed for 15 min in the MS medium. Mesophyll cells and roots were examined using a Leica TCS NT confocal microscope system (http://www.leicabiosystems.com). The laser wavelengths [excitation (nm)/emission (nm)] were as following: 489/500 to 535 for GFP, 543/560 to 600 for MitoTracker Orange, and 543/600 to 790 for chlorophyll autofluorescence. Differential interference contrast microscopy was performed using a Nikon Eclipse 800 (http://www.nikoninstruments.com) wide-field epifluorescence microscope and differential interference contrast optics as describe previously (Lu et al., CITATION). GUS staining was carried out for 24 h at 37°C on T3 plants. Tissues were then incubated in 70% (v/v) ethanol overnight. The blue staining patterns were recorded using a dissecting microscope (Nikon SMZ1500) equipped with a digital camera (QImaging). Quantitative RT-PCR was performed as described previously (Jin et al., CITATION). Actin-2 (AT3G18780) was used as the reference gene for relative quantification. The gene-specific primers are used as following: T30–T31 for Actin-2, T32–T33 for mtPPT, and T34–T35 and T36–T37 for AT2G02770 (See Table S2 online for primer sequences). Total protein was extracted from 200 mg fresh aerial organs of plants at 16 DAI grown in the 1% CO2 atmosphere as described previously (Che et al., CITATION). Fifty milligram of total protein was separated in the 12.5% SDS-PAGE, and was further subjected for western blot analysis with anti-lipoic acid or anti-H protein antibodies as described previously (Ewald et al., CITATION). Amino acids were extracted from 50 mg fresh aerial organs of plants at 16 DAI at 85°C for 10 min in 1 ml water containing 10 μm butylamine as an internal standard. After brief centrifugation, samples were filtrated through the 0.45 μm Iso-Disc Filter (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO, USA, www.sigmaaldrich.com). O-phthalaldehyde (OPA) buffer was prepared by mixing 12.25 mg OPA, 312.5 μl methanol, 6 ml 0.4 M potassium tetraborate tetrahydrate (adjusted to pH 9.5 with 10% sulfuric acid), and 19.22 μl β-mercaptoethanol. The amino group of amino acids was derivatized with OPA in a 3-min in-loop reaction between 6 μl samples and 6 μl OPA buffer, and analyzed using a HPLC system [Agilent 1200 HPLC system equipped with a fluorescence detector and a Thermo Scientific Hypersil ODS column (250 mm length, 4.0 mm ID and 5 μm particle size)] as described previously (Pereira et al., CITATION). Glycolate and sucrose were extracted from 50 mg fresh aerial organs of plants at 16 DAI and analyzed using a GC-MS system (Agilent 7890 GC-MS system equipped with Agilent HP-5 ms column) as described previously (Duran et al., CITATION). Fatty acids were extracted and transmethylated from 50 mg fresh aerial organs of plants at 16 DAI as described previously (Lu et al., CITATION), and were analyzed using a GC-MS system (Agilent 7890 GC-MS system equipped with Agilent HP-5 ms column).
