!~ABS~! The involvement of Rho of Plants (ROP) GTPases in abscisic acid (ABA) signalling in Arabidopsis has been demonstrated in many studies. However, the roles of RopGEFs (Rop guanine nucleotide exchange factors), which modulate ROP activities in ABA signalling, are poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that RopGEF2 may play a negative role in ABA-suppressed seed germination and post-germination growth. We show that disruption of RopGEF2 enhances sensitivity to exogenous ABA in seed germination assays and that RopGEF2pro-GUS is mainly expressed in developing embryos and germinating seeds. Interestingly, YFP-RopGEF2 is located in both the cytoplasmic region and in mitochondria. Notably, the PRONE2 (plant-specific ROP nucleotide exchanger 2) domain of RopGEF2 is detected in mitochondria, whereas the N-terminus of RopGEF2 is shown to be in the cytosol. After ABA treatment, degradation of RopGEF2 is triggered in the cytosol through the ubiquitin-26S proteasome system. The binding of RopGEF2 to ROP2, ROP6 or ROP10, which has been demonstrated to be involved in ABA signalling, not only alters the localization of RopGEF2 but also enables RopGEF2 to escape degradation in the cell. Thus, in this study, we deduce a sophisticated mechanism of ABA-mediated RopGEF2-ROP signalling, which potentially implicates the inactivation of ROPs in responsiveness to ABA.
!~RES~! To investigate the role of RopGEF2 in the response to ABA, we obtained and characterized the T-DNA insertion mutant ropgef2-ko (SALK_130229) (Figure 1a). RopGEF2 expression was completely abolished in ropgef2-ko plants, suggesting that ropgef2-ko was likely a null mutant (Figure 1b). We compared the seed germination and seedling growth of ropgef2-ko with that of wild-type (WT) (Col-0) plants grown in various concentrations of ABA (Figure 1c,d). For instance, in the presence of 0.5 μm ABA, 31% of ropgef2-ko plants had green cotyledons compared with 61% of WT seedlings (Figure 1d), suggesting that ropgef2-ko seedlings were more sensitive to ABA. To further validate the role of RopGEF2 in the response to ABA, we overexpressed RopGEF2 in both the ropgef2-ko background (Com lines) and in the WT background (OE lines) (Figure 1b). We scored the cotyledon-greening phenotype for each line in response to different concentrations of ABA (0.3, 0.5 and 1.0 μm) (Figure 1c,d). The reduction in the cotyledon-greening rate was obvious for ropgef2-ko treated with 0.3 and 0.5 μm ABA (Figure 1d). Therefore, we further analysed the profiles of seed germination and post-germination growth at 0.5 μm ABA. To compare the phenotypes of each of the tested lines, we carefully measured the kinetics of ‘emerged radicles’ and ‘green cotyledons’. We observed that seed germination (defined as ‘emerged radicles’) and cotyledon greening were delayed for ropgef2-ko (Figure 1e). These results indicated that a lack of RopGEF2 expression caused hypersensitivity to ABA in seed germination and post-germination growth (Figure 1c–e). We noticed that ABA sensitivity was not obviously affected in radicle emergence and cotyledon greening in transgenic lines overexpressing RopGEF2 (Figure 1), suggesting that RopGEF2 might exert its function via coupling with its partner(s). Hence, RopGEF2 overexpression alone might not be sufficient to increase RopGEF2 activity. This effect might be similar to that observed with RopGEF12 (Zhang and McCormick, CITATION). In order to stimulate isotropic pollen tube growth the overexpression of both RopGEF12 and its partner AtPRK2a was required (Zhang and McCormick, CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Because only one T-DNA insertion ropgef2-ko mutant line was available, we generated artificial microRNA lines with reduced expression levels of RopGEF2 in the WT background. In total, 47 independent amiR-RopGEF2 lines were obtained and characterized in the T1 generation. To determine the specificity of all the selected amiR-RopGEF2 lines, the expression level of RopGEF3, which shares the highest sequence homology to RopGEF2, was also examined in parallel. RopGEF3 expression was not affected in the amiR-RopGEF2 lines (Figure S1a in the Supporting Information). Ten amiR-RopGEF2 lines with varying degrees of decreased expression of RopGEF2 were further analysed (Figure S1a). Six of 10 amiR-RopGEF2 lines (numbers 1, 2, 4, 6, 7 and 13) showed a reduction in cotyledon greening when grown in 0.3 and 0.5 μm ABA (Figure S1b). Because lines 1 (5.1-fold reduction), 2 (4.3-fold reduction) and 7 (4.8-fold reduction) displayed a strong reduction in RopGEF2 expression, we chose to compare their radicle emergence and cotyledon greening with the WT, as well as line 10, which had only a 1.4-fold reduction in RopGEF2 expression (Figure S1a). In the presence of 0.5 μm ABA, a significant delay in radicle emergence and cotyledon greening was observed in amiR-RopGEF2 lines 1, 2 and 7 but not in line 10 (Figure 2). Collectively, these results demonstrated that the reduced RopGEF2 expression in the amiR-RopGEF2 plants may be responsible for the observed delay in seed germination and post-germination growth in the presence of ABA. [[FIGURE]] To better understand the roles of RopGEF2 in responding to ABA during seed germination and seedling growth, we examined the expression profiles of RopGEF2 in various Arabidopsis tissues. First, the expression pattern of RopGEF2 was analysed quantitatively. Although RopGEF2 transcripts were detectable in all tissues tested (e.g. cotyledons, rosette leaves, roots, stems, flowers, siliques, seeds and seedlings), significant levels of expression of RopGEF2 were detected in siliques and seeds (Figure 3a). To determine the effects of ABA on expression of RopGEF2 we also measured RopGEF2 expression in tissues that were treated with ABA (10 μm). Despite treatment with ABA, the level of expression of RopGEF2 was not significantly affected (Figure 3a), suggesting that ABA might not influence the expression of RopGEF2 in the tissues tested. [[FIGURE]] Next, transgenic plants carrying RopGEF2pro-GUS were generated and analysed. Abundant GUS signals were observed in developing embryos and mature seeds (Figure 3b1–b4), as well as in germinating seeds and seedlings (Figure 3b5–b11). The RopGEF2pro-GUS signal progressively declined during the process of seed germination. Notably, the RopGEF2pro-GUS signal was restricted to the meristem and the vascular tissues of leaves and roots at day 5 of germination (Figure 3b11). Thus, the preferential expression patterns of RopGEF2pro-GUS in embryos and germinating seeds may suggest a specific function for RopGEF2 in seed germination and seedling growth. To better understand the function of RopGEF2, we characterized the cellular localization of RopGEF2 in transgenic lines expressing a YFP-RopGEF2 fusion protein (Figure S2a). The expression of YFP-RopGEF2 in ropgef2-ko plants rescued the phenotype of cotyledon greening (Figure S2b), demonstrating that the YFP-RopGEF2 fusion protein was functional. Subsequently, the cellular localization of YFP-RopGEF2 was analysed in epidermal cells of 5-day-old YFP-RopGEF2 transgenic seedlings. In addition to localization at the cell periphery, scattered speckles of YFP-RopGEF2 were also observed in the cytoplasm of epidermal cells in roots and leaves (Figure 4a). To determine the nature of the speckles, we tested several organelle markers, which were transformed individually into the cells of YFP-RopGEF2 transgenic plants. Our results indicated that YFP-RopGEF2 co-localized with the mitochondrial marker Mito Tracker Red in protoplasts isolated from YFP-RopGEF2 transgenic plants (Figure 4b), suggesting a possible mitochondrial localization of YFP-RopGEF2. To further clarify the cellular localization of YFP-RopGEF2, we analysed cellular fractions by immunoblotting. The YFP-RopGEF2 fusion protein was detected in purified fractions of membranes (M), cytosol (C) and mitochondria (Mito) (Figure 4c). Furthermore, the cellular localization of YFP-RopGEF2 was also confirmed via immunofluorescence staining. In this experiment, the signal from AOX1/2 (mitochondrial alternative oxidase isoforms) marks the location of mitochondria. Indeed, YFP-RopGEF2 and AOX1/2 were observed to co-localize in root epidermal cells (Figure 4d). Our results suggested that RopGEF2 associates with mitochondria in the cell. [[FIGURE]] Full-length RopGEF2 contains an N-terminal domain (amino acids 1–116) and a PRONE2 (amino acids 117–486) domain (Gu et al., CITATION) (Figure 4e). To test the contribution of the N-terminal and PRONE2 domains to the cellular localization of RopGEF2, we examined N-terminal and PRONE2 domain truncations using transient expression assays (Figure 4f–h). The p35S-YFP-RopGEF2-N or p35S-YFP-PRONE2 plasmid was delivered into Arabidopsis leaf epidermal cells using the biolistic bombardment method. The fluorescent signal of YFP-RopGEF2-N (N-terminus) appeared in the cytoplasm and cell periphery (Figure 4f). In parallel, scattered speckles of YFP-PRONE2 (PRONE2) were observed in the cell (Figure 4f,g), which resembled the pattern seen in epidermal cells of full-length YFP-RopGEF2 transgenic plants (Figure 4a,b,d). To distinguish the characteristics of the speckles, we co-transformed the p35S-YFP-PRONE2 and Mito-DsRed plasmids (for detecting mitochondrial localization) into the epidermal cells of onion peels using the biolistic bombardment method. As shown in Figure 4(h), YFP-PRONE2 and Mito-DsRed were observed to co-localize in the transformed onion epidermal cells (Figure 4h), demonstrating that the PRONE2 domain is crucial for directing RopGEF2 to mitochondria. Because PRONE3 shares the highest homology to PRONE2, we also examined the cellular distributions of YFP-RopGEF3 and YFP-PRONE3. Interestingly, the fluorescent signals of YFP-RopGEF3 and YFP-PRONE3 were detected near the cell periphery and in the cytosol but not in the mitochondria (Figure S2c). Taken together, these results demonstrate that the distinctive mitochondrial localization of RopGEF2 might reflect its unique function in Arabidopsis. Although numerous studies have reported essential roles for ROP2, ROP6/AtRac1 and ROP10 in ABA signalling (Lemichez et al., CITATION; Li et al., CITATION; Zheng et al., CITATION), the role of RopGEFs in modulating the activity of ROP during the ABA response is poorly understood. Therefore, we decided to investigate the consequences of associating RopGEF2 with ROPs that are involved in ABA signalling. We showed that RopGEF2 was able to interact with ROP2, ROP6 and ROP10 (Figure 5a–c). Interestingly, the interaction between RopGEF2 and ROP2, ROP6 or ROP10 led RopGEF2 to localize near the cell periphery (Figure 5b), suggesting that binding of ROP alters the localization of RopGEF2. To validate this hypothesis, we tagged ROP2, ROP6 or ROP10 with cyan fluorescent protein (CFP) and introduced the tagged constructs into mesophyll protoplasts isolated from YFP-RopGEF2 transgenic plants. Again, no speckles were observed in the transformed protoplasts. Instead, the fluorescence of YFP-RopGEF2 was observed in the cytoplasm and cell periphery (Figure S3a). To further test this effect, we generated hybrid lines by crossing YFP-RopGEF2 transgenic plants to CFP-ROP2, CFP-ROP6, and CFP-ROP10 lines. As shown in Figure 5(d), rather than the speckled YFP-RopGEF2 fluorescent signal, the YFP-RopGEF2 fluorescent signal was obviously distributed near the cell periphery in all the tested hybrid lines (Figure 5d). Similarly, the speckled YFP-PRONE2 signal was also diminished when co-expressed with CFP-tagged ROP2, ROP6 or ROP10 in onion peel epidermal cells (Figure S3b). Overall, these results suggested that RopGEF2 translocation in cells might be essential for the modulation of ROP activity. [[FIGURE]] To explore the contribution of the PRONE2 domain to the ABA response, we also evaluated the influence of the PRONE2 domain on cotyledon greening. Transgenic lines expressing the p35S-PRONE2 plasmid in the WT and ropgef2-ko backgrounds were generated and characterized (Figure S4a). Interestingly, PRONE2 overexpression in ropgef2-ko mutants failed to rescue the cotyledon-greening phenotype (Figure S4b). It is likely that the PRONE2 domain is not sufficient to fulfil the function of RopGEF2 in planta. In general, RopGEF-ROPs exert their functions by coupling with downstream effectors. We speculate that the N-terminal domain of RopGEF2 may also play a role in mediating the activation of downstream effectors, at least in the ABA-mediated suppression of seed germination and seedling growth. To investigate how RopGEF2 is affected in response to ABA, we evaluated RopGEF2 expression at the mRNA and protein levels. We found that RopGEF2 gene expression was not greatly altered by ABA (10 μm) treatment (Figure 6a). However, levels of RopGEF2 protein were significantly decreased in 5-day-old YFP-RopGEF2 transgenic seedlings treated for 4 h with various concentrations of ABA (10, 50 and 100 μm) (Figure 6b). Because the reduced RopGEF2 protein level was detectable at 10 μm ABA, we used this concentration to track the kinetics of decline of RopGEF2 over time. Significant decreases in RopGEF2 protein levels were observed within 2 h (120 min) of ABA treatment, and RopGEF2 protein was barely detectable 4 h (240 min) after treatment (Figure 6c). To determine the degradation pathway of RopGEF2 protein triggered by ABA, we examined the effect of proteasome inhibition on the stability of RopGEF2 protein. Prior to the ABA (10 μm) treatment, 5-day-old YFP-RopGEF2 transgenic seedlings were pre-treated with 50 μm MG132 (26S proteasome inhibitor) for 2 h, and then the level of RopGEF2 protein was examined at various time points. Degradation of RopGEF2 protein was slowed by the addition of MG132 prior to the ABA treatment (Figure 6d). Hence, the contribution of the ubiquitin-26S proteasome system to ABA-induced degradation of RopGEF2 was further evaluated. Immunoprecipitation assays were performed to detect the ubiquitination of proteins using a specific anti-ubiquitin antibody. As shown in Figure 6, ABA was indeed able to trigger the ubiquitination of the Arabidopsis RopGEF2 protein (Figure 6e,f). We hypothesize that ABA triggers the degradation of RopGEF2 via the ubiquitin–26S proteasome system to attenuate ROP signalling. [[FIGURE]] To investigate the correlation of RopGEF2 localization and its degradation in response to ABA, we purified and examined membrane (M), cytosolic (C) and mitochondrial (Mito) fractions from YFP-RopGEF2 transgenic seedlings that were treated with or without 10 μm ABA for 4 h. We observed a marked decrease in RopGEF2 protein in the cytosolic (C) fraction. However, detectable levels of RopGEF2 protein remained in the membrane (M) and mitochondrial (Mito) fractions (Figure 7a). Therefore, ABA-triggered RopGEF2 degradation most likely took place in the cytosol. Because the distribution of RopGEF2 could be altered upon binding to ROP2, ROP6 or ROP10 (Figure 5d), we sought to investigate the correlation between the stability of RopGEF2 and its binding to its target ROPs. To this end, we analysed the behaviour of RopGEF2 protein in YFP-RopGEF2 CFP-ROP2, YFP-RopGEF2 CFP-ROP6 and YFP-RopGEF2 CFP-ROP10 hybrid lines with or without ABA treatment. Notably, the ABA-triggered degradation of RopGEF2 protein was eliminated in seedlings from the hybrid lines (Figure 7b), suggesting that co-expression of RopGEF2 and ROP stabilized the RopGEF2 protein, which was consistent with the phenomena observed for the translocation of YFP-RopGEF2 in the YFP-RopGEF2 CFP-ROP hybrid lines (Figure 5d). These results suggest that the degradation of RopGEF2 may be averted when RopGEF2 is bound by its target ROPs, even in the presence of ABA. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! All Arabidopsis plants were of the Columbia-0 (Col-0) ecotype. The ropgef2-ko (SALK_130229) mutant was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (http://www.arabidopsis.org/abrc), and homozygous lines were identified using the protocol described by Alonso et al. (CITATION). Plants were grown in a growth room in 16-h light/8-h dark at 23°C. Information on the plasmids and transgenic lines is provided in Methods S1 and Tables S1 and S2. Only seeds with the same storage periods were used for the seed germination assay. Surface-sterilized seeds were first sown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) (PhytoTechnology, http://phytotechlab.com/) plates containing 1% sucrose and 0.8% (w/v) agar. After 2 days of stratification at 4°C in the dark, the seeds were transferred to a growth chamber. For ABA treatment, sterilized seeds were sown on MS plates containing various concentrations of ABA [(±)-abscisic acid; Sigma-Aldrich, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/]. Control plates contained an equal amount of 100% ethanol, which was used to prepare the ABA stock solution. Radicle emergence and cotyledon greening were then analysed. Quantitative reverse transcription-PCR (qRT-PCR) experiments were performed to analyse the expression of RopGEF2 and RopGEF3. To determine the expression levels of RopGEF2 and RopGEF3 in the amiR-RopGEF2 lines, total RNA was isolated from 2-day-old seedlings from WT (Col-0), ropgef2-ko and amiR-RopGEF2 transgenic lines. To examine the expression levels of RopGEF2 in various Arabidopsis tissues, the tested tissues were treated without or with ABA (10 μm) for 24 h. The RNAprep Pure Plant kit (TIANGEN, http://www.tiangen.com/en/) was used for RNA isolation. The RNA samples were reverse-transcribed using the ReverTra Ace-α-® kit (TOYOBO, http://www.toyobo-global.com/). Complementary DNA was amplified using the SsoAdvanced SYBR Green supermix (Bio-Rad, http://www.bio-rad.com/) with a CFX connect real-time PCR detection system (Bio-Rad). Information on the primers used for qRT-PCR analysis can be found in Table S2. Membrane and cytosol fractions were prepared through high-speed centrifugation (100 000 g) following a previously described protocol (Lavy et al., CITATION). The crude mitochondrial fraction was extracted from protoplasts using the published protocol (Zhong et al., CITATION; Møller and Rasmusson, CITATION) with some modifications. First, purified protoplasts were re-suspended in lysis buffer [0.3 m sucrose, 60 mm 2-amino-2-(hydroxymethyl)-1,3-propanediol (TRIS)-HCl, pH 7.5, 2 mm EDTA, 10 mm KH2PO4, 25 mm tetrasodium pyrophosphate, 1 mm glycine, 1% polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP), 1% BSA, 50 mm sodium ascorbate]. Then, the lysate was centrifuged (3000 g) for 10 min, and the pellet, which contained cellular debris such as cell wall fragments, starch grains, nuclei and intact chloroplasts, was discarded. The supernatant was centrifuged (10 000 g) for 20 min, and the pellet corresponding to the crude mitochondrial fraction was collected, washed three times with washing buffer (0.3 m sucrose, 10 mm TRIS-HCl, pH 7.5, 2 mm EDTA, 10 mm KH2PO4, 1% PVP, 1% BSA). At the final step, the collected fractions, including membranes, cytosol and mitochondria, were subjected to 10% SDS-PAGE for immunoblotting analysis. The antibodies used for analysis were anti-GFP (Proteintech Group, http://www.ptglab.com/), anti-H+-ATPase (Agrisera AB, http://www.agrisera.com/), anti-UGPase (Agrisera AB) and anti-AOX1/2 (Agrisera AB). Mesophyll protoplasts were isolated and transformed by following a previously described protocol (Yoo et al., CITATION). All plasmid DNAs were purified with caesium chloride-ethidium bromide (CsCl/EB). Three replicates were carried out for each experiment. To analyse the altered localization of RopGEF2 upon ROP binding, plasmids p35S-CFP-ROP2, p35S-CFP-ROP6 or p35S-CFP-ROP10 (4 μg per plasmid) were transformed into mesophyll protoplasts isolated from 5-day-old seedlings from YFP-RopGEF2 transgenic lines. The transformed protoplasts were incubated for 12 h at 23°C in the dark. Bombardment was performed by using the PDS-1000/He particle gun delivery system (Bio-Rad), and observations were carried out 12 h after transformation. For the bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) experiment, plasmids pROP2-YC, pROP6-YC and pROP10-YC (2 μg per plasmid) were each delivered, together with pRopGEF2-YN (2 μg), into the cotyledons of 5-day-old seedlings. To analyse the localization of PRONE2, plasmid p35S-YFP-PRONE2 (8 μg) was delivered into the epidermal cells of Arabidopsis roots and leaves or onion peels. To analyse the co-localization of ROPs and PRONE2, plasmids p35S-YFP-PRONE2 (8 μg) and p35S-CFP-ROP2 (4 μg), or p35S-CFP-ROP6 (4 μg) or p35S-CFP-ROP10 (4 μg) were delivered into the epidermal cells of onion peels. To observe the Mito Tracker Red signal, protoplasts were isolated from the 5-day-old YFP-RopGEF2 transgenic seedlings. Purified protoplasts were incubated with 50 nm Mito Tracker Red CMXRos (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com/) for 15 min at 25°C. The stained protoplasts were then subjected to microscopic observation. The fluorescent signal of Mito Tracker Red was acquired at 579 nm (excitation) and 599 nm (emission); YFP fluorescence was visualized at 515 nm (excitation) and 535 nm (emission); CFP fluorescence was visualized at 440 nm (excitation) and 480 nm (emission); DsRed fluorescence was observed at 550 nm (excitation) and 585 nm (emission); FITC fluorescence was visualized at 492 nm (excitation) and 520 nm (emission); and Cy3 fluorescence was observed at 550 nm (excitation) and 570 nm (emission). All images were acquired on an Olympus Confocal Laser Scanning Microscope FV1000 (Olympus, http://www.olympus.com/). Pull-down assays were carried out following a previously described protocol, with some modifications (Gu et al., CITATION; Wu et al., CITATION). His-ROP proteins (10 μg each) were incubated with GST-RopGEF2 protein (50 μg), which was conjugated to glutathione sepharose beads (GE Healthcare, http://www3.gehealthcare.com/) in 500 μl of binding buffer (20 mm TRIS-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mm NaCl, 10% glycerol, 0.1% Triton X-100, 5 mm MgCl2, 1 mm EDTA), for 1 h at 4°C. Then, the beads were washed five times with binding buffer to remove unbound proteins. The protein complex was separated by 10% SDS-PAGE and blotted with anti-His antibody (Proteintech Group). For semi-in-vivo pull-down of RopGEF2 and ROP2, ROP6 or ROP10, the purified His-ROP2, His-ROP6 and His-ROP10 proteins (20 μg per sample) were first conjugated to TALON beads. Then, TALON bead-bound His-ROP2, His-ROP6 or His-ROP10 was incubated for 1 h at 4°C with total protein that was extracted from 5-day-old YFP-RopGEF2 transgenic seedlings. The beads were washed five times. At the last step, the precipitated protein complex was separated via 10% SDS-PAGE and analysed using an anti-GFP antibody (Proteintech Group). For the degradation assay, 5-day-old YFP-RopGEF2 transgenic seedlings were pre-treated with MG132 (50 μm) for 2 h and then treated with ABA (10 μm) for the indicated times. Afterwards, total proteins were prepared in extraction buffer [25 mm TRIS-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mm NaCl, 2 mm DTT, 1 mm NaF, 0.5 mm Na3VO4, 15 mm β-glycerophosphate, 0.5 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (PMSF) and protease inhibitor cocktail]. Equal amounts of protein samples from each treatment were analysed by immunoblotting with anti-GFP antibody (Proteintech Group). For the ubiquitination assay, we followed a previously described protocol (Liu and Stone, CITATION), with minor modifications. Total protein extracts were prepared from 5-day-old YFP-RopGEF2 transgenic seedlings that were treated with or without ABA (10 μm). To remove unbound non-specific proteins, Protein A+G Agarose beads (Beyotime, http://www.beyotime.com/) were incubated with protein samples for 1 h at 4°C. After a brief centrifugation (500 g, 10 s), the supernatant was collected and incubated with anti-GFP antibody for 16 h at 4°C. Next, the protein mixture was incubated with Protein A+G Agarose beads for 2 h at 4°C. After centrifugation (500 g) for 5 min, the beads were washed five times with washing buffer. Finally, the immunoprecipitated protein pellets were denatured and analysed by immunoblotting using anti-GFP and anti-ubiquitin antibodies (Sigma). Expression of YFP-RopGEF2 protein was examined by immunoblotting using anti-GFP antibody. Transgenic seedlings expressing GFP alone were used as the control.
