!~ABS~! Plant organelle function must constantly adjust to environmental conditions, which requires dynamic coordination. Ca2+ signaling may play a central role in this process. Free Ca2+ dynamics are tightly regulated and differ markedly between the cytosol, plastid stroma, and mitochondrial matrix. The mechanistic basis of compartment-specific Ca2+ dynamics is poorly understood. Here, we studied the function of At-MICU, an EF-hand protein of Arabidopsis thaliana with homology to constituents of the mitochondrial Ca2+ uniporter machinery in mammals. MICU binds Ca2+ and localizes to the mitochondria in Arabidopsis. In vivo imaging of roots expressing a genetically encoded Ca2+ sensor in the mitochondrial matrix revealed that lack of MICU increased resting concentrations of free Ca2+ in the matrix. Furthermore, Ca2+ elevations triggered by auxin and extracellular ATP occurred more rapidly and reached higher maximal concentrations in the mitochondria of micu mutants, whereas cytosolic Ca2+ signatures remained unchanged. These findings support the idea that a conserved uniporter system, with composition and regulation distinct from the mammalian machinery, mediates mitochondrial Ca2+ uptake in plants under in vivo conditions. They further suggest that MICU acts as a throttle that controls Ca2+ uptake by moderating influx, thereby shaping Ca2+ signatures in the matrix and preserving mitochondrial homeostasis. Our results open the door to genetic dissection of mitochondrial Ca2+ signaling in plants.
!~RES~! The discovery of MICU1 in mammals was achieved by a phylogenetic approach, making use of the conservation of mitochondrial Ca2+ uniport in most eukaryotes (CITATION). We performed a refined phylogenetic analysis for plants, confirming that MICU is conserved throughout the plant kingdom (Figure 1A; Supplemental Data Set 1 and Supplemental File 1), which suggests an important functional role in plants (CITATION). Most plant species included in the analysis contained at least two MICU homologs. Only one homolog was found in a small number of specific clades across the phylogeny including the Chlorophytes and the Brassicacea. This indicates that, although diversification can occur, one MICU locus is sufficient and Arabidopsis represents this minimal configuration. Furthermore, homologs of the MICU1 isoforms MICU2 and 3 that are present in vertebrates (CITATION; CITATION) could not be found in Arabidopsis. The amino acid sequence of Arabidopsis MICU (At-MICU; AT4G32060; predicted splicing variant 1: At-MICU.1) showed 45% similarity and 25% identity to its homolog in human. The two Ca2+ binding EF hand motifs present in mammalian MICU1 are conserved, while there is an additional third EF-hand predicted in Arabidopsis (Figure 1B; Supplemental Figure 1). All three EF-hand motifs feature all characteristics required for functionality, including the critical charged residues for Ca2+ binding. A second predicted splicing variant, At-MICU.2, lacks the C-terminal EF-hand. We sought to exploit this genetic situation as a tangible model to dissect the physiological role of MICU in plants. [[FIGURE]] To assess if At-MICU is indeed able to bind Ca2+, as predicted by the presence of the EF-hand motifs, we performed Ca2+ overlay assays and measured the effect of free Ca2+ concentrations on protein folding stability by ligand-induced thermal stabilization assays. For that we used a recombinantly expressed and purified truncated version of At-MICU.1 (∆MICU; Figure 1B; Supplemental Figure 2A). ∆MICU lacks the first 117 amino acids, thereby eliminating the signal peptide and putative transmembrane/disordered sequences, and carries an N-terminal His-tag. All predicted EF-hand motifs remain intact. Using 45Ca2+ overlay after gel-based protein separation (CITATION), strong 45Ca2+ signals were present at the predicted molecular weights of ΔMICU and aequorin (positive control), but not BSA (negative control; Figure 1C). Based on the hypothesis that Ca2+ binding alters the structural stability of ΔMICU, we further investigated the affinity range of Ca2+ binding by differential scanning fluorimetry in the presence of increasing free Ca2+ concentrations and physiological buffer pH (Figure 1D) and observed thermal stabilization with increasing free Ca2+ concentrations. Two sigmoid transitions, indicating stabilization by Ca2+ binding, could be clearly distinguished. The first occurred between ∼200 nM and 5 μM and the second between ∼25 and 500 μM free Ca2+. Since it is plausible that more than one binding site contributes to one transition, this points to the presence of at least two Ca2+ binding sites with apparent binding affinities around 1 and 100 μM, respectively. The Mg2+ control showed poor stabilization only starting above around 100 μM, suggesting that Ca2+ binding is selective. The first Ca2+-induced transition coincides with the physiological concentration range of intracellular free Ca2+ and is lower than the binding constants estimated for mammalian MICU1 (CITATION). While the binding affinities measured must be considered qualitative estimates, they clearly indicate that ΔMICU can bind Ca2+ in vitro at physiological concentrations with impact on the structural properties of the protein. Public transcriptomic data indicate that MICU is ubiquitously expressed across Arabidopsis tissues (CITATION; CITATION). Expression in root, shoot, floral bud, and pollen is also supported by two shotgun proteomic screens of whole-tissue extracts (AtPeptide MS/MS and Pep2Pro MS/MS; CITATION). Experimental evidence on the subcellular localization of MICU has been lacking, however. Bioinformatics algorithms provide ambiguous targeting predictions with an overall priority for mitochondria or plastids (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). RT-PCR analysis of the full-length MICU.1 transcript in whole-plant extracts of the accessions Col-0 and Col-3 suggested transcript levels similar to the ACTIN7 control (Figure 2A). A predicted splicing variant, MICU.2, could be detected at much lower levels. This was refined by quantitative RT-PCR for roots and rosettes separately, showing MICU.1 expression of comparable magnitude in both green and non-green tissue. The second splicing variant MICU.2 was present at >100 times lower abundance compared with the main transcript MICU.1 (Figure 2B). [[FIGURE]] We detected MICU in the proteome of our mitochondrial preparations from Arabidopsis (Figure 2C; Supplemental Data Set 2) as one out of 653 identified Arabidopsis proteins at a protein and peptide false discovery rate of 1%. Of the protein preparation, 80% was annotated as mitochondrial (based on SUBAcon of the SUBA3 database; CITATION; CITATION), suggesting reasonable mitochondrial purity. Identified proteins covered five orders of magnitude in abundance, as estimated by the iBAQ value, which is based on peptide ion intensity. MICU was detected with only one unique peptide with an Andromeda score of 40 (0 to ∼500 as typical score range; 11 to 216 for this data set; good confidence from a score >35), a posterior probability of 0.01, and abundance ranked at 590st, with a relative protein abundance of 0.002% among all identified proteins. The low abundance of MICU identified in the proteomic experiment may explain the absence of MICU from previous plant mitochondrial proteome studies and strengthened the hypothesis of MICU as a mitochondrial protein. Additional support comes from the presence of a homolog of MCU (AT1G57610) in our data set (Supplemental Data Set 2), the pore-forming component of the mitochondrial Ca2+ uniporter in mammals. This is consistent with the recent detection of an MCU homolog in an extension of the study of the potato tuber mitochondrial proteome (CITATION; I.M. Møller, personal communication). For independent validation, we raised a polyclonal antibody against MICU.1 protein, which we applied to probe for MICU directly. However, the purified antibody did not label a clear band at the expected size for MICU.1 (∼51 kD, based on cleavage site prediction at position 41 by TargetP; CITATION) in whole-cell extracts or isolated mitochondria from Col-0 wild-type plants, although a 35S overexpressed MICU.1:GFP fusion protein appeared as a band of the predicted size at ∼81 kD in protein extracts from isolated mitochondria (Supplemental Figures 2B and 2C). This suggests specific MICU recognition by the antibody, but with insufficient affinity for detection of endogenous MICU, even in enriched preparations under the conditions used. As an orthogonal approach, we analyzed N- and C-terminal GFP fusions of the full-length coding sequence of MICU.1 under the control of a 35S promoter by confocal microscopy. Transient expression of the C-terminal fusion construct MICU.1:GFP in wild tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) leaf epidermis showed GFP fluorescence that colocalized with the mitochondrial marker MitoTracker Orange, indicating mitochondrial localization. By contrast, the N-terminal fusion construct GFP:MICU.1 displayed cytosolic and nuclear localization, suggesting that the N terminus, which is blocked by the N-terminal GFP-fusion, is critical for mitochondrial targeting (Supplemental Figure 3). To rule out potential localization artifacts, we generated stable Arabidopsis transformants using the C-terminal GFP fusion construct. Three independent lines were assessed in leaf epidermis, hypocotyl, and rhizodermis. GFP signal was consistently observed in small, round-to-elongated, highly dynamic subcellular structures and colocalized with MitoTracker Orange and/or tetramethyl rhodamine methyl ester (TMRM) (Figure 2D; Supplemental Figure 4; CITATION), confirming the transient expression data in wild tobacco. Minor signal in the GFP channel that was occasionally observed in chloroplast regions of leaf samples was equally observed in controls, suggesting minor spectroscopic bleed-through of chlorophyll fluorescence. When imaging larger mitochondria of the stable 35S:MICU.1:GFP lines, it was possible to resolve GFP fluorescence in ring-like structures. The GFP signal did not strictly colocalize with the MitoTracker signal but instead appeared consistently broader (Figure 3A). Since resolution of subcompartments in individual mitochondria is close to the resolution limit of classical light microscopy, we determined and merged the pixel intensity distributions of multiple mitochondria to improve signal-to-noise statistics (Figure 3B) (CITATION). The highest GFP intensity pixels surrounded the MitoTracker signal maximum, suggesting that MICU was localized in a different mitochondrial subcompartment to MitoTracker. Using GFP targeted to the matrix (mito-GFP; CITATION) as a control showed an intensity distribution that resembled that of MitoTracker, ruling out chromatic aberration effects, while the outer mitochondrial membrane (labeled with NETWORK1/ELM1-GFP; CITATION; CITATION) showed two pronounced intensity maxima, with the MitoTracker maximum in between. Both intensity distributions differed from that of MICU.1:GFP, indicating that the protein localizes to a mitochondrial subcompartment other than the matrix and the outer mitochondrial membrane. This points to presence of At-MICU at/in the inner mitochondrial membrane (IMM) and/or in the intermembrane space (IMS; Figure 3C), which is in agreement with a majority of MICU localization studies in mammalian systems. [[FIGURE]] Based on the EF-hand motifs, the ability to bind Ca2+, the homology to mammalian MICU proteins, and the mitochondrial localization, we hypothesized that At-MICU is involved in mitochondrial Ca2+ dynamics in planta and chose a reverse genetic approach to test this hypothesis. Two independent Arabidopsis lines with T-DNA insertions in either the sixth (micu-1) or the first (micu-2) exon of the MICU locus were chosen (Figure 4A), and the precise positions of the respective insertion sites were determined by sequencing. The T-DNA cassette was integrated 1936 or 70 bp downstream of the MICU start codon in micu-1 or micu-2, respectively. Homozygous lines were selected and validated using PCR-based genotyping (Figure 4B). Transcript analysis by quantitative as well as standard RT-PCR showed a complete loss of MICU transcript (both splicing variants) in both insertion lines compared with their corresponding wild-type controls (Col-0 for micu-1 and Col-3 for micu-2; Figures 4C and 4D). This provided the basis for a genetic dissection of MICU function in vivo. [[FIGURE]] To obtain a specific measure of free Ca2+ concentration in the mitochondrial matrix in planta, we used the genetically encoded sensor Yellow Cameleon 3.6 (YC3.6; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), which was recently adapted for dynamic measurement of Ca2+ dynamics in the mitochondrial matrix of Arabidopsis (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Reversible Ca2+ binding by the sensor induces a conformational change that can be detected by a change in the Förster resonance energy transfer (FRET) efficiency between the two fluorophores that are part of the probe (ECFP and cpVenus) such that the FRET ratio (cpVenus:ECFP) increases with increasing free Ca2+ concentration, thereby providing a quantitative readout. The sensor construct for mitochondrial targeting was transformed into homozygous micu-1 and micu-2 and at least five positive independent T1 individuals were selected by sensor fluorescence for each. Suitable fluorescence intensity (i.e., expression levels) as well as correct mitochondrial localization of the sensor, by colocalization with MitoTracker Orange, were confirmed by confocal laser scanning microscopy (Figure 5A). For all measurements, homozygous T3 or T4 seedlings of at least two independent lines were used for both micu-1 and micu-2. This provided a robust system to assess the impact that lack of MICU has on mitochondrial Ca2+ dynamics in vivo. [[FIGURE]] For in vivo imaging of free Ca2+, we focused on roots, where we have experimentally demonstrated MICU expression (Figure 2B). Root tissue offers favorable properties for in vivo imaging, including strong sensor signal, the opportunity to record data in a submerged state that is not dissimilar from the physiological state on culture plates, no risk of interference from chlorophyll autofluorescence, and established treatment procedures to induce mitochondrial Ca2+ transients (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We analyzed the confocal data sets in a ratiometric manner, generating pseudo-color images to represent the FRET ratios across the root tip. This indicated that ratio values for the micu lines were increased compared with the control, suggesting an elevated free Ca2+ concentration in the matrix (Figure 5B). The increase was similar in both micu lines and very consistent between experiments (and research labs). Nevertheless, the ratio images suggested substantial steady state heterogeneity in matrix calcium between the different tissue types in the root tip. Values in the root cap were consistently lower than those around the meristematic zone, with a decrease toward the elongation zone (Figure 5B). To account for this baseline heterogeneity and to assess quantitatively where the apparent FRET ratio changes were most pronounced in the micu lines, we systematically subdivided the ratio images into 12 equal sections starting from the tip (Figures 5B and 5C). While the sections in the cap area and the start of the elongation zone only showed minor differences between the lines, they were most pronounced and highly significant in the upper meristematic zone. To minimize the impact of tissue heterogeneity, we focused on a region of interest (ROI) in this area for the subsequent assessment of Ca2+ dynamics (Figure 5C). Semiquantitative assessment of intact root tips with the cationic lipophilic red fluorescent probe TMRM did not show any significant differences between the lines in the ROI (Supplemental Figure 5). TMRM reversibly accumulates in the mitochondrial matrix in response to the electrical potential ΔΨ across the inner membrane. Due to the Nernstian response characteristics of TMRM, even small changes in ΔΨ lead to pronounced changes in probe fluorescence (CITATION), suggesting that changes in ΔΨ were unlikely to account for the observed elevation in free matrix Ca2+. Increased FRET ratios of the Cameleon sensor suggest that matrix Ca2+ activity is constitutively elevated in root tissues of the micu lines and that MICU plays a role in maintaining matrix Ca2+ levels at low concentrations in vivo. To investigate if MICU is also involved in active Ca2+ dynamics, we next analyzed matrix Ca2+ transients in roots. Since the stimulation of well defined and strictly reproducible Ca2+ transients in complex plant tissue is technically challenging, we employed a custom perfusion setup for in vivo fluorescence microscopy of Arabidopsis roots. We applied auxin in the form of 10 μM 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), for which we have observed reliable induction of mitochondrial Ca2+ transients. Remarkable reproducibility of the observed response allowed quantitative analysis of bona fide in vivo Ca2+ dynamics (Figures 6A and 6B; Supplemental Figure 6A and Supplemental Movie 1). The analysis is based on FRET ratios for maximal rigor and avoidance of additional assumptions related to the transformation to absolute free Ca2+ concentrations. Nevertheless, meaningful estimation of free Ca2+ concentrations is possible (Supplemental Figure 7). [[FIGURE]] The baseline ratio was stable in all lines, but significantly elevated in the micu lines (4.76 ± 0.37 in Col-0, 5.68 ± 0.29 in micu-1, and 5.85 ± 0.28 in micu-2; Figures 6A to 6C), confirming the steady state measurements by confocal imaging (see Figure 5; note that only relative, not absolute, FRET ratios can be compared between the two imaging techniques). NAA application caused an instantaneous increase in FRET ratios in all lines, reaching a relatively stable plateau for ∼300 s followed by recovery to baseline. The pronounced steady state shift between Col-0 and both micu lines remained significant throughout the entire transient. This suggests that (1) the maximal free Ca2+ concentrations reached in the matrix during the transient are much higher in the micu background and (2) that the baseline concentrations in the micu lines are comparable to those reached in the wild type upon excitation by the auxin stimulus. Although the transients of the micu lines appeared slightly different from one another, with micu-2 reaching a higher plateau than micu-1, this was not significant at any time point. The shape of the transients was also consistently altered in both micu lines relative to the wild type. The initial, linear rate of FRET ratio increase (R2 > 0.995) was nearly doubled (0.011 ± 0.003 s−1 in Col-0, 0.019 ± 0.004 s−1 in micu-1, and 0.019 ± 0.003 s−1 in micu-2), suggesting more rapid Ca2+ accumulation in the matrix (Figures 6B, 6D, an 6E). The plateau was reached earlier, demonstrated by shortened times to pass the half-maximal ratio (t1/2 up: 61.8 ± 7.2 s in Col-0, 32.1 ± 11 s in micu-1, and 45 ± 7.6 s in micu-2) and a higher peak FRET ratio was reached (5.62 ± 0.55 in Col-0, 6.76 ± 0.41 in micu-1, and 7.13 ± 0.31 in micu-2), representing higher maximal Ca2+ concentrations (Figures 6B and 6F). In contrast, the time to pass the half-maximal ratio on the recovery was not significantly altered (t1/2 down: 688.2 ± 70.9 s in Col-0, 636.4 ± 60.8 s in micu-1, and 682.5 ± 70 s in micu-2; Figures 6B and 6G), indicating unchanged kinetics of matrix Ca2+ clearance after the NAA stimulus. To test if the observed changes in organellar Ca2+ kinetics were specific to NAA or can be generalized, we selected extracellular ATP (eATP; 0.1 mM) as an independent and well-established stimulus (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Importantly, our measurements in the control demonstrated that eATP triggers mitochondrial Ca2+ transients with a different signature to that of NAA (Figure 6H; Supplemental Figure 6B and Supplemental Movie 2). The resting ratios were very similar to those measured prior to the NAA time courses, confirming elevated ratios in the micu lines (4.92 ± 0.27 in Col-0, 5.81 ± 0.3 in micu-1, and 5.96 ± 0.43 in micu-2; Figures 6B, 6H, and 6I). eATP gave rise to a transient increase in free Ca2+ in all lines, with a clear main maximum, higher than that of NAA, before declining again (Figure 6H). Similar to NAA, the shift between Col-0 and both micu lines remained significant throughout the entire transient, and the shape of the transients was distinct. The initial, linear rate, which was 3 times faster for eATP than for NAA in Col-0, was increased even further in the micu lines (0.032 ± 0.008 s−1 in Col-0, 0.044 ± 0.012 s−1 in micu-1, and 0.047 ± 0.009 s−1 in micu-2; Figures 6B, 6J, and 6K). Consistently, the maximum was also reached sooner (t1/2 up: 40.9 ± 7 s in Col-0, 29.2 ± 5.4 s in micu-1, and 37.1 ± 7 s in micu-2) and higher peak FRET ratios were reached (6.89 ± 0.52 in Col-0, 7.96 ± 0.62 in micu-1, and 8.68 ± 0.43 in micu-2; Figures 6B and 6L). In addition, the recovery was quicker in the micu lines (t1/2 down: 527.7 ± 92.4 s in Col-0, 426.7 ± 61 s in micu-1, and 407.1 ± 20.8 s in micu-2; Figure 6M), suggesting increased clearance rates after the eATP-induced transient, in contrast with observations for NAA. The consistent behavior of the micu lines upon treatment with either auxin or eATP suggests that the mechanisms responsible for the different mitochondrial Ca2+ transients measured between micu lines and Col-0 are independent of stimulus identity. The only exception is the recovery rate that was unchanged in response to NAA, but increased in the mutants in response to eATP. It is possible that the high absolute matrix Ca2+ concentration in the micu lines in response to eATP (Supplemental Figure 7) may have additional and potentially independent regulatory impact. Given the pronounced changes in matrix Ca2+ dynamics, we aimed to explore how those alterations are connected to subcellular Ca2+ dynamics in other compartments. To investigate cytosolic Ca2+ transients in the mutant micu lines, we expressed the Cameleon sensor YC3.6 in the cytosol (CITATION; CITATION) in an analogous manner to the generation of the mitochondrial sensor lines, thereby enabling assessment of cytosolic Ca2+ dynamics under identical conditions to those used for mitochondrial Ca2+ measurements (Figures 7A and 7F; Supplemental Figures 6C and 6D and Supplemental Movies 3 and 4). [[FIGURE]] Under steady state conditions, FRET ratios were consistently lower in the cytosol compared with the mitochondrial matrix, indicating lower free Ca2+ concentrations. Interestingly, the micu mutants did not differ significantly from the control (Figures 7A, 7B, 7F, and 7G). Similar behavior for control and micu lines was also found for cytosolic Ca2+ dynamics in response to both NAA and eATP, and there was no significant difference in FRET ratios found at any time point. NAA induced a much milder transient in the cytosol than in the mitochondrial matrix that was also distinct in shape, containing at least two components (Figure 7A). eATP triggered a cytosolic spike that was shorter lived and lower in amplitude compared with the mitochondrial matrix. The micu lines showed no alteration in any of the kinetic parameters that were changed in the matrix (see Figure 6B; Figures 7C, 7D, and 7H to 7J; Supplemental Table 1). To make sure that the Cameleon sensor was technically functional in the cytosol and responses were comparable with those in the mitochondrial matrix, we triggered a more pronounced Ca2+ transient as a positive control. We used a 20-fold higher concentration of eATP (2 mM) as a stimulus, which, in agreement with previous observations of dose dependence (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION), resulted in a pronounced increase in Ca2+ amplitude (Supplemental Figure 6D, inset), adding additional weight to the validity of the quantitative sensing setup. Those observations suggest that while MICU shapes Ca2+ dynamics in the mitochondrial matrix, the impact appears to be mitochondria specific and does not have any major influence on the shape of cytosolic Ca2+ transients in planta. To investigate if the regulatory impact of MICU on mitochondrial Ca2+ dynamics can be connected to structural properties of cellular organization, we performed transmission electron microscopy of root tips. A proportion of the mitochondrial populations observed showed decreased electron density and disorganization toward the center of their matrix. Yet, cristae were still clearly visible toward the periphery and appeared more tubular compared with the control, where cristae generally showed typical saccular configuration (CITATION). Mitochondria with such abnormal internal ultrastructure were significantly enriched in the elongation zone of the micu lines (33% and 38%) compared with their corresponding controls (13 and 24%; Figure 8A; Supplemental Figure 8A and Supplemental Table 2). In the root apex, the number of abnormal mitochondria was generally low, although micu-2 also contained significantly more translucent mitochondria in this area compared with its corresponding wild type (Supplemental Figure 8B and Supplemental Table 2). No change in mitochondrial shape or size was evident. [[FIGURE]] To check if the ultrastructural changes indicated mitochondrial function being more generally altered in the micu lines, we assessed respiration of purified, intact mitochondria from whole seedlings. This allows a detailed appraisal of the mitochondrial respiratory machinery, at the cost of losing tissue specific effects, by averaging over large numbers of mitochondria from all tissues. For all preparations, outer membrane integrity was >90%, as measured by cytochrome c latency. We could not detect significant changes for the oxygen consumption rates (OCRs) of micu mitochondria in state I-V (with one exception) and in response to inhibition of KCN-sensitive transport and alternative oxidase nor for respiratory control and P:O ratio (Supplemental Figure 9). This indicated that the respiratory machinery remained functional and efficient in the micu lines. Yet, we observed a tendency of decreased maximal rates (state III and V, as induced by carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenyl hydrazone) in the micu mitochondria under succinate respiration (Supplemental Figure 9B). By contrast, this was not the case under pyruvate/malate respiration, where this trend appeared even inverted, i.e., increased maximal rates in micu mitochondria. Since the different substrates provide electrons to the ubiquinone pool of the electron transport chain via distinct import and dehydrogenase systems [succinate, predominantly via succinate dehydrogenase/complex II; pyruvate/malate, predominantly via NAD(P)H generated by malate dehydrogenase and the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex, and, in turn, complex I and the internal alternative NAD(P)H-dehydrogenases], respiratory capacities may be independently adjusted, with limitations becoming apparent in oxygen consumption at maximal rates. To test this hypothesis, we assessed the ratio of OCRs under pyruvate/malate-driven compared with succinate-driven state III respiration (Figure 8B). This ratio was consistently increased in all six micu mitochondrial preparations compared with their corresponding wild-type mitochondria (1.8× for micu-1 versus Col-0; 1.2× for micu-2 versus Col-3 on average) but only reached significance for micu-1 versus Col-0. Alterations in electron flux stoichiometry suggest changes in the respiratory machinery that are permanent enough to be preserved in isolated organelles under the in vitro conditions employed. Since those conditions do not preserve physiological Ca2+ status and cannot be straightforwardly compared with the in vivo situation, we also assayed respiration in intact roots. Oxygen consumption rates were unchanged between the lines under control conditions and after successive treatment with the cytochrome c oxidase inhibitor KCN and the alternative oxidase inhibitor propylgallate (Figure 8C). Those data suggest no overall changes in root respiratory rate and in the capacities of both terminal oxidases at whole-tissue level. They do not provide details on the mechanistic organization of respiration nor on specific tissue areas or cell types, however, which deserve detailed investigation in the future. To find out if the observed functional and structural phenotypes at mitochondrial and cellular level carry through to the whole plant, we compared the micu-1 and micu-2 lines against their specific wild-type backgrounds for developmental phenotypes. Employing a stringent and highly reproducible quantitative assessment regime, we could not observe any consistent differences throughout the life cycle of soil-grown plants (Figures 8D and 8E; Supplemental Figures 10A to 10C). Precedence for the importance of Ca2+ regulation, mitochondrial function, and environmental stimuli for root development (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) prompted us to also quantify primary root growth performance of seedlings on media plates under normal growth conditions and a set of abiotic stress conditions. All stress conditions led to decreased root growth, yet none triggered any significant change in growth between micu and the corresponding wild-type plants within 2 d of stress exposure (Figure 8F; Supplemental Figure 10D). Although our phenotype analysis cannot be comprehensive, it suggests that absence of MICU has a pronounced impact on mitochondrial Ca2+ and is associated with alterations of the mitochondrial ultrastructure and the respiratory machinery but does not lead to detectable changes in overall root respiration or visible alterations of whole plant development.
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis thaliana micu-1 (SALK_064052; Col-0 background; CITATION) and micu-2 (SAIL_359_H07; Col-3 background; CITATION) lines were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre and validated by genotyping and sequencing. Arabidopsis ecotypes Col-0 and Col-3 (segregated out from the T-DNA line) were used as wild-type lines. To generate the stable sensor and GFP-fusion lines, Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation of Arabidopsis was performed by floral dip (CITATION). Primary transformants were selected by antibiotic resistance and/or fluorescence. Homozygous lines were selected by segregation analysis using fluorescence as a selection marker. Where not indicated otherwise, surface-sterilized seeds were grown on vertical culture plates containing half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) agar (CITATION) with 0.1% (w/v) sucrose, under long-day conditions after stratification at 4°C in the dark. For mitochondrial isolations, seedlings were cultured in hydroponic pots for 14 d as described before (CITATION). For localization studies in wild tobacco, Agrobacterium suspensions were infiltrated into leaves of 4- to 5-week old Nicotiana benthamiana plants. Transformed plants were returned to growth chambers for 2 to 4 d before further analysis. A plasmid containing the full-length cDNA for At4g32060 (clone U20031) was obtained from the ABRC and used as template for PCR using Gateway attB-flanked primers to enable recombination into vectors pMDC45 and pMDC83 (CITATION) to generate GFP:MICU.1 and MICU.1:GFP, respectively. Both constructs were transformed into Agrobacterium strain AGL1 by electroporation. The agrobacteria strains for Arabidopsis transformation with the 4mt-YC3.6 and NES-YC3.6 sensor constructs were described previously (CITATION). Selection of homozygous individuals of the micu lines was performed by PCR-based genotyping. Sequencing of the T-DNA insertion sites was performed using primers LBb1.3 and LB1mod. For expression analysis by RT-PCR, total RNA was isolated from seedling tissue using the NucleoSpin RNA II kit (Macherey-Nagel). RNA was reverse transcribed to cDNA using an M-MLV reverse transcriptase (Life Technologies) with oligo(dT) or random hexamer primers and used for standard and quantitative PCR using the primer combinations listed in Supplemental Table 3. qRT-PCR was performed on a CFX96 system (Bio-Rad) with PerfeCTa SYBR Green FastMix (Quanta Biosciences). Protein sequences of representative plant species were retrieved from http://phytozome.jgi.doe.gov using human MICU1 (UniProt identifier Q9BPX6) as query sequence. Following manual curation, sequences were aligned with Muscle (CITATION) in MEGA 6 (CITATION) with default parameters (Supplemental File 1) and clustered in an unrooted maximum likelihood tree using the JTT model (CITATION) and uniform rates among sites (MEGA6). The tree with the highest log likelihood (-9511.9518) is shown in Figure 1A and Supplemental Figure 1. Bootstrap values reported on nodes in Figure 1A were derived from 1000 repetitions. The coding sequence of At-MICU lacking its first 117 amino acids (ΔMICU) was PCR amplified from Arabidopsis cDNA with primers ΔMICU_fw and ΔMICU_rev. The PCR product was digested with NheI/XhoI and cloned into pET28a (Novagen). Following transformation into Escherichia coli ArcticExpress DE3 (Agilent Technologies) or E. coli Rosetta(DE3), expression of His:ΔMICU was induced with 0.5 mM isopropyl-β-thiogalactopyranoside for 16 h at 20°C. Cells were lysed in lysis buffer (25 mM Tris, 150 mM NaCl, and 5% [v/v] glycerol, pH 7.5) supplemented with 0.1 mM DTT. After centrifugation, total soluble proteins were loaded onto a Ni2+ chromatography column (GE Healthcare) and washed with lysis buffer containing 1 M NaCl and lysis buffer containing 15 mM imidazole before proteins were eluted with a 100 to 500 mM imidazole gradient (Supplemental Figure 2A). Ca2+ overlay assays were performed according to CITATION with 3 μg purified ΔMICU (∼46 kD), 2.5 μg recombinant aequorin (∼22 kD), and 5 μg BSA (∼66 kD). Ligand-induced thermal stabilization was measured using the ThermoFluor assay to analyze the Ca2+ and Mg2+ binding properties of recombinant ∆MICU (CITATION). Purified ∆MICU at 0.7 to 1 μM in 25 mM Tris, 150 mM NaCl, 100 mM imidazole, and 5% (v/v) glycerol, pH 7.4, or 25 mM Bis-Tris, 150 mM NaCl, 100 mM imidazole, and 5% (v/v) glycerol, pH 7.0, was mixed with 5 μL of 50× SYPRO-Orange dye (Life Technologies). Free Ca2+ and Mg2+ concentrations were calculated using Maxchelator software (maxchelator.stanford.edu) and adjusted in the presence of 0.25 mM EGTA or 0.1 mM EDTA, respectively. Melting curves were recorded on an Applied Biosystems 7500 RT-PCR cycler with band-pass TAMRA filter applying a temperature gradient between 15 and 95°C (1°C min−1). Melting point calculations were done in GraphPad Prism 6. Purified ΔMICU was separated by SDS-PAGE and isolated from the gel before being used to immunize rabbits with poly(A)-poly(U) as adjuvant. ΔMICU was then immobilized on CNBr-activated Sepharose 4B (GE Healthcare) to affinity purify the ΔMICU-specific IgG antibody from total rabbit serum. For immunoblots, proteins were transferred onto polyvinylidene fluoride membranes. Blocked membranes were probed over night at 4°C with ΔMICU-specific primary antibody at a 1:100 dilution. After applying a secondary anti-rabbit antibody conjugated to horseradish peroxidase, chemiluminescent signal was detected using SuperSignal West Pico Chemiluminescent Substrate (Thermo Scientific). Arabidopsis mitochondria were isolated from 2-week-old Col-0 seedlings (expressing the mitochondrial Ca2+ sensor YC3.6) as previously described (CITATION; CITATION). Mitochondrial protein (800 μg) was isolated and trypsinated, and 1 μg of peptides was analyzed using an EASY-nLC 1000 (Thermo Scientific) coupled to a Q Exactive Plus mass spectrometer (Thermo Scientific) with column and gradient as described (CITATION). Mass spectra were acquired in a data-dependent manner, with an automatic switch between MS and MS/MS scans using a top 12 method. MS spectra were acquired in the Orbitrap analyzer, with a mass range of 300 to 1750 m/z, at a resolution of 70,000 and a target value of 106 ions. Peptide fragmentation was performed with the HCD method, and MS/MS spectra were acquired in the Orbitrap analyzer and a target value of 105 ions at a resolution of 17,500. Raw MS files were processed using MaxQuant software (version 1.4.1.2; http://www.maxquant.org/) with iBAQ enabled (CITATION; CITATION). MS/MS spectra were searched by the Andromeda search engine against the decoy Arabidopsis TAIR10_pep_20101214 database including 248 common contaminant proteins. The list of typical contaminants in proteomic sample preparations is an integral part of the MaxQuant software package (CITATION). Peptides and proteins were identified at a false discovery rate of 1%, with trypsin specificity and a maximum of two missed cleavages. Carbamidomethylation of cysteine residues was set as fixed, and oxidation of methionine and acetylation of the N terminus were set as variable modifications. The iBAQ algorithm was used for ranking of the absolute abundance of different proteins within a single sample (CITATION) Confocal imaging was performed using a Zeiss LSM780 confocal microscope and a ×40 (C-Apochromat, 1.20 numerical aperture, water immersion) or ×63 lens (Plan-Apochromat, 1.40 numerical aperture, oil immersion). For colocalization studies with MitoTracker, plant material was vacuum-infiltrated for 30 min with 200 nM MitoTracker Orange (Invitrogen). GFP was excited at 488 nm, and MitoTracker Orange was excited at 543 nm. Fluorescence of GFP and MitoTracker were measured at 495 to 545 nm and 570 to 620 nm, respectively, with the pinhole set to 1 airy unit. Chlorophyll was recorded at the 633-nm laser excitation line and emission at 650 to 600 nm. Pixel intensities of the GFP and MitoTracker channel were extracted using Zeiss ZEN software. Ca2+ imaging of root tips of intact 7- to 8-d-old seedlings was performed as recently described (CITATION; CITATION). YC3.6 was excited at 458 nm, and emission of FRET pair proteins ECFP and cpVenus was collected at 465 to 500 and 525 to 560 nm, respectively. Membrane potential imaging was performed in living root tissue of 5-d-old seedlings expressing 4mt-YC3.6 in the presence of 50 nM TMRM as described previously (CITATION). TMRM was excited at 543 nm and cpVenus was excited at 514 nm; emission was collected at 570 to 620 and 525 to 560 nm, respectively. Seven- to eight-day-old seedlings were carefully placed in a custom perfusion chamber and stabilized with wet cotton wool to continuously perfuse the roots with the imaging solution (5 mM KCl, 10 mM MES, and 10 mM CaCl2, pH 5.8, adjusted with Tris; CITATION). The shoot was not submerged. Since Ca2+ transients can be readily triggered by mechanical stimuli, seedlings were rested under continuous perfusion for 10 min after mounting and before ratiometric image acquisition, to allow potential handling-related Ca2+ transients to settle. Consecutive acquisition after another 10 min did not show any change in FRET ratio, indicating that stable Ca2+ levels were reached at the time of measurement. For stimulation, the perfusion medium was supplemented with NAA (10 μM) or Na2ATP (0.1 mM; for positive control 2 mM) added to the chamber by perfusion with the same solution. Treatment solution was applied for 3 min and then washed out. Seedling roots expressing the Cameleon sensor in the mitochondria or the cytosol (CITATION; CITATION) were imaged using a Nikon Ti-E inverted fluorescence microscope with a CFI PLAN APO 20× VC dry objective. Excitation light was produced by a Prior Lumen 200 PRO fluorescent lamp (Prior Scientific) at 440 nm (436/20 nm) set to 20%. Images were collected with a Hamamatsu Dual CCD Camera ORCA-D2. For Cameleon analysis, the FRET CFP/YFP optical block A11400-03 (emission 1 483/32 nm for CFP and emission 2 542/27 nm for the FRET) with a Hamamatsu dichroic 510 nm mirror was used for the simultaneous CFP and cpVenus acquisitions. Exposure times were 100 ms with a 4×4 pixel binning in the case of roots of seedlings expressing the mitochondrial Cameleon and 100 ms with a 2×2 CCD binning in the case of roots of seedlings expressing the cytosolic Cameleon. Images were acquired every 5 s. Filters and dichroic mirrors were purchased from Chroma Technology. A Nikon NIS-Element was used as a platform to control microscope, illuminator, camera, and postacquisition analyses. Individual ratiometric images and time-lapse imaging data of YC3.6 were analyzed using a custom MatLab program package (CITATION). Errors provided represent sd. Images were obtained from 2-week-old seedlings as described previously (CITATION). Oxygen consumption of intact Arabidopsis roots and isolated mitochondria were measured in Oxytherm Clark-type electrodes (Hansatech). Whole roots from 16-d-old seedlings were cut below the hypocotyl-root junction and assayed in 5 mM KCl, 10 mM MES, and 10 mM CaCl2, pH 5.8, adjusted with Tris. Arabidopsis mitochondria from 2-week-old seedlings were isolated as described by CITATION and CITATION. Oxygen consumption and integrity of the outer mitochondrial membrane were assayed as described before (CITATION). Plants were grown under long-day conditions (17°C, 16 h at 65 μmol photons m−2 s−1, 8 h dark) in individual pots randomly distributed among standard greenhouse flats. Development of the leaf rosette was precisely documented photographically, and rosette parameters (area, solidity, and length of the major rosette axis) were analyzed with the Leaf Lab tool (version 1.41). Critical reproductive growth stages (Supplemental Figure 10C) were documented after inflorescence emergence. Surface-sterilized seeds were vertically grown on half-strength MS medium (CITATION) + 1% (w/v) sucrose + 0.8% (w/v) Phytagel for 5 d under long-day conditions (16 h at 120 μmol photons m−2 s−1 at 22°C, 8 h dark at 18°C). Seedlings were then transferred onto half-strength MS medium + 1% (w/v) sucrose + 0.8% (w/v) Phytagel supplemented with stress-inducing compounds. Root growth and development under long-day conditions was documented for 5 d after transfer. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL libraries under the following accession numbers: MICU, AT4G32060; NMT1/ELM1, AT5G22350; ACTIN7, AT5G09810; and SAND FAMILY PROTEIN, AT2G28390. Supplemental Figure 1. Predicted features of At-MICU. Supplemental Figure 2. Purification of ΔMICU and immunoblot with At-MICU antibody. Supplemental Figure 3. MICU.1:GFP and GFP:MICU.1 localization in wild tobacco leaf epidermis. Supplemental Figure 4. Localization of MICU.1:GFP in different Arabidopsis tissues. Supplemental Figure 5. Assessment of mitochondrial membrane potential in root tips. Supplemental Figure 6. Reproducibility of Ca2+ transients. Supplemental Figure 7. Considerations on absolute free Ca2+ concentrations. Supplemental Figure 8. Mitochondrial ultrastructure in cells of the root elongation zone and apex. Supplemental Figure 9. Analysis of respiratory parameters in purified mitochondria. Supplemental Figure 10. Experimental design of micu phenotyping. Supplemental Table 1. Kinetic parameters of cytosolic calcium transients in Col-0 and micu lines after stimulus with either NAA or eATP. Supplemental Table 2. Analysis of mitochondrial ultrastructure. Supplemental Table 3. List of primers. Supplemental Data Set 1. Sequence information used for phylogenetic analysis. Supplemental Data Set 2. Proteins identified in Arabidopsis mitochondrial extracts. Supplemental Movie 1. Mitochondrial Ca2+ transient induced by NAA. Supplemental Movie 2. Mitochondrial Ca2+ transient induced by eATP. Supplemental Movie 3. Cytosolic Ca2+ transient induced by NAA. Supplemental Movie 4. Cytosolic Ca2+ transient induced by eATP. Supplemental File 1. Sequence alignments for phylogenetic analysis.
