!~ABS~!  We provide evidence that AtDBP1 promotes flowering by regulating the transcript levels of several important integrators and floral meristem identity genes, including FLC, CO, SOC1, LFY, FT and FD. DNA-binding protein phosphatases (DBP) which exhibit both sequence specific DNA-binding and protein phosphatase 2C activities are important regulators that are involved in both the transcriptional and post-translational regulations. DBP factors are known to mediate susceptibility to potyviruses; however, whether they are involved in other processes is still unclear. In this study, under both long day (LD) and short day conditions, AtDBP1 overexpressing plants displayed early flowering, while the knock out mutants, atdbp1, exhibited a delay in flowering relative to the wild-type plants; both the overexpressing lines and atdbp1 mutants remained photoperiodic sensitive, indicating that AtDBP1 was involved in the autonomous pathway. AtDBP1 does not respond to vernalization at transcript level, and both AtDBP1 overexpressing plants and atdbp1 mutants remain responsive to vernalization, indicating that AtDBP1 may not be directly involved in vernalization. Real-time PCR analysis showed that AtDBP1 can suppress FLOWERING LOCUC C (FLC) expression, a key integrator of the autonomous and vernalization pathways, and enhance the expression levels of CONSTANS and FLOWERING LOCUC T, key regulators of the LD pathway. Furthermore, expression of floral meristem identity genes including SUPPRESSOR OF OVEREXPRESSION OF CO 1, LEAFY and FD was also promoted in AtDBP1overexpressing plants. AtDBP1 transcription can be detected in root, leaf, stem, flower and silique. AtDBP1–GFP and YFP–AtDBP1 fusion protein were localized in the cytosol and nucleus. Our results provide the evidence demonstrating the effective role of AtDBP1 for flowering time regulation and report a novel function of DBP factors in planta besides in plant defense.
!~RES~! T-DNA insertion mutants of atdbp1 (Salk_005240) were genotyped using PCR tests to identify homozygous mutants. The T-DNA insertion in atdbp1 mutants was located in the first intron of the AtDBP1 gene. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis indicated that the AtDBP1 transcript was completely absent in the homozygous mutants (Fig. 1a). According to a previous report, atdbp1 mutants have an enhanced resistance to infection by two potyviruses, but no major effect in plant architecture or growth habit has been observed (Castello et al. CITATION). However, in the present study, we found that the atdbp1 mutant showed a slightly delayed flowering time compared to WT under both LD and SD conditions (Fig. 1b, e). Under LD conditions, WT plants began to flower at 33 days after sowing with 12.6 rosette leaves per rosette on average, whereas atdbp1 mutant plants took 37–38 days to flower with 13.6 rosette leaves on average per rosette (Fig. 1c, d). Under SD conditions, WT plants began to flower at 104 days after sowing with 41 rosette leaves on average, whereas atdbp1 mutant plants took 166 days to flower with 54 rosette leaves on average (Fig. 1f, g). [[FIGURE]]  The AtDBP1 overexpressing lines (Col+AtDBP1; OV) and the complementation lines (atdbp1+AtDBP1; COM) were generated to further confirm that the delayed flowering time of the atdbp1 mutant resulted from the disruption of AtDBP1 transcription. AtDBP1 was cloned into the expression binary vector driven by CaMV (Cauliflower mosaic virus) 35S and was subsequently transformed into the WT and atdbp1 mutant. Overexpressing lines and complementation lines were obtained. The AtDBP1 transcription level in overexpressing lines (OV#L1 and OV#L2) and one complementation line (COM#L1) was much higher than that in the WT plants (Fig. 1a). Overexpression of AtDBP1 significantly accelerated the flowering time of Arabidopsis (Fig. 1b, e). Under LD conditions, AtDBP1 overexpressing lines (OV#L1 and OV#L2) took only 23–24 days to flower (with 5–8 rosette leaves on average), whereas WT plants took 33 days to flower (with 12–14 rosette leaves on average) (Fig. 1c, d). Under SD conditions AtDBP1 overexpressing lines took 36–41 days to flower (with 8–9 rosette leaves on average), whereas WT plants took 104 days to flower (with 37–44 rosette leaves on average) (Fig. 1f, g). The transcription level of AtDBP1 in another complementation line (COM#L2) was comparable to that in WT plants (Fig. 1a). The COM#L2 plants showed a similar phenotype as the WT plants under both LD and SD conditions (Fig. 1b, e), indicating a full functional complementation of AtDBP1. These results indicated that AtDBP1 could positively regulate the flowering time of Arabidopsis in a dose-dependent manner. The effect of photoperiod on the level of AtDBP1 mRNA was examined in aerial parts of WT plant. The results showed that AtDBP1 did not respond to the photoperiod at the transcriptional level (Fig. 2a). Since Arabidopsis is a LD plant, flower development of Arabidopsis is promoted by LD conditions and delayed by SD conditions. In our study, AtDBP1 overexpressing plants and atdbp1 mutants grown under LD conditions flowered significantly earlier than those grown under SD conditions (Fig. 2c), just as the WT plants. Both AtDBP1 overexpressing plants and atdbp1 mutants were still sensitive to the photoperiod. These results indicate that AtDBP1 is a gene that regulates flowering time in Arabidopsis via a pathway that is independent of the day length, thus is likely involved in the autonomous pathway. [[FIGURE]]  Usually, mutants of genes in autonomous pathways show a strong response to vernalization; the late-flowering phenotype of these mutants is strongly suppressed by vernalization (Koornneef et al. CITATION). Therefore we examined if AtDBP1 was also involved in vernalization. First, the effect of vernalization on the level of AtDBP1 mRNA was investigated (Fig. 2b). AtDBP1 did not respond to vernalization at the transcript level (Fig. 2b). The phenotypes of the overexpressing lines and the atdbp1 mutant under vernalization treatment were investigated. After vernalization treatment the flowering time of atdbp1 mutants and WT plants were not different (Fig. 2d, e); the late-flowering phenotype of the atdbp1 mutant was suppressed just as was the case with other mutants of the autonomous pathway. While AtDBP1 overexpressing lines (OV#L1 and OV#L2) still flowered earlier than the WT, although the early-flowering phenotype of overexpressing lines was significantly suppressed. Both the atdbp1 mutants and AtDBP1 overexpressing plants remain responsive to vernalization, indicating that AtDBP1 might not be directly involved in vernalization. To gain more insights into the role of AtDBP1 in flowering time regulation, we monitored the expression of the well-known flowering time regulators in WT, atdbp1 mutants and two 35S:AtDBP1 overexpressing lines by real-time PCR analysis. Considering FLC as a key regulator of the autonomous and vernalization pathways (Srikanth and Schmid CITATION), we first analyzed the expression of FLC. Overexpression of AtDBP1 significantly suppressed FLC expression (Fig. 3), while disruption of AtDBP1 significantly promoted FLC expression indicating that a close antagonistic relationship between AtDBP1 and FLC excisted. We also analyzed the expression of other genes that are involved in the autonomous pathway, including FCA, FPA, FLD, FVE, FY and LD. Although the expression of these genes was slightly increased in two overexpressing lines (OV#L1 and OV#L2) and slightly decreased in atdbp1 mutant, these differences were not statistically significant. [[FIGURE]]  Since SOC1, FT and LFY are key genes integrating multiple flowering pathways (Moon et al. CITATION), we investigated the expression of SOC1, FT and LFY in AtDBP1 overexpressing lines and atdbp1 mutants (Fig. 3). The expression of SOC1 was reduced in the atdbp1 mutant, while increased in two overexpressing lines (OV#L1 and OV#L2), demonstrating a positive relationship between AtDBP1 and SOC1. The expression of FT and LFY was also higher in two overexpressing lines (OV#L1 and OV#L2), but did not alter in atdbp1 mutants under LD conditions. The genes CO and FT are involved in the long day (photoperiod) pathway, and CO gene is a central regulator that accelerates flowering in the LD pathway (Yoo et al. CITATION). Therefore CO expression was investigated as shown in Fig. 3. The expression of CO increased in two overexpressing lines (OV#L1 and OV#L2), but was not significantly changed in the atdbp1 mutant. In a similar fashion, the expression of the FD gene, which was characterized to interact with FT to activate floral meristem genes, increased in two overexpressing lines (OV#L1 and OV#L2). To investigate the subcellular localization of the AtDBP1 protein, we tagged the fluorescent protein to AtDBP1 protein, transiently expressed the fusion protein in onion epidermal cells and investigated the cellular expression. Fusion of fluorescent protein coding sequences to coding regions of target protein has become a valuable tool for determining cellular locations in plants. However, it has been reported that the tag may affect the native protein folding, so the subcellular localization of the C-terminal fusion proteins might not be consistent with that of the N-terminal fusion proteins (Palmer and Freeman CITATION). To fully investigate the cellular location of AtDBP1, we tagged the fluorescent protein to either the N or the C termini of AtDBP1, and investigated their cellular expression, respectively. Our work revealed that AtDBP1 protein was distributed in the cytosol and in the nucleus irrespective of which termini the tag was attached to (Fig. 4). Similar results were also described by Castello et al. (CITATION). AtDBP1:GFP fusion protein was detected in the nucleus and the cytosol when transiently expressed in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves. The nucleus location of AtDBP1 indicated that AtDBP1 might mediate the transcriptional regulation of plant genes. [[FIGURE]]  Organ-specific expression of AtDBP1 was analyzed by semi-quantitative PCR. AtDBP1 expression was observed in almost all organs, including the root, stem, leaf, flower and silique (Fig. 5). [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~!  Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia (Col-0) was used throughout this study. Seeds of the atdbp1 T-DNA insertion line (SALK_005240) were obtained from The European Arabidopsis Stock Centre (NASC). Plants were grown in soil at 22–24 °C with 60 % relative humidity. The photoperiods were 16 h light and 8 h dark for the LD conditions and 8 h light and 16 h dark for the SD conditions under white light with an irradiance of 100 µmol photons m−2 s−1. For vernalization treatment, plants were germinated at 22 °C and grown at 4 °C for 4 weeks in the LD conditions and then transferred to 22 °C under LD conditions. PCR was used to genotype homozygous T-DNA inserted plants. Gene-specific primer pair was F: 5′-CTGAAGCAAGGCTCCCATC-3′ and R: 5′-GTAAACCGCCGAATCCACT-3′, while gene-specific primer and T-DNA-specific primer pair was F: 5′-ATTTCAATGGCTTTTCCCTG-3′ and R: 5′-AGCTGTTGCCCGTCTCACT-3′. The expression level of AtDBP1 in identified homozygous T-DNA insertion plants was further confirmed by semi-quantitative RT-PCR using primer pair F 5′-TGACGGGGTTTGGGATG-3′ and R 5′-AAGTTCGGTGGTGGCTGTG-3′. Genomic sequence of AtDBP1 was amplified with primer pair F: 5′-TCAATATGGAAGAAACTAGAGG-3′ and R: 5′-GAGAAATCAATCATTCGTCAC-3′ and cloned into the NcoI/SpeI sites of the pFGC1008 vector (modified previously) under the control of CaMV 35S promoter. The resulting vector was introduced into the Agrobacterium tumefacien strain LBA4404. The WT and atdbp1 mutant were transformed by the floral-dipping method. The T1 plants were selected on MS medium containing 30 mg L−1 hygromycin. Seeds from each T1 plant were individually collected. Selected T2 plants were propagated, and homozygous lines were confirmed by inheritance rate of hygromycin resistant plants. Homozygotes were further confirmed by semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis.  Arabidopsis plants were grown in soil in an artificial climate chamber under LD or SD conditions at 22–24 °C with 60 % relative humidity. Flowering time was recorded when the floral bolt was 1 cm high, meanwhile the total number of rosette leaves were counted. About 90 plants were measured, averaged and subjected to statistical analysis. For analysis of the influence of the photoperiod on the expression of AtDBP1 and the well-known flowering time regulators in different lines, the aerial parts of 18-day-old Arabidopsis seedlings grown under LD/SD were sampled 8 h after dawn. For analysis of the effects of the vernalization on the expression of AtDBP1, the aerial parts of Arabidopsis seedlings grown at 4 °C for 4 weeks under LD conditions were sampled 8 h after dawn. Total RNA of aerial parts, leaves, roots, stems was extracted using TRIzol (Invitrogen) and total RNA of flowers and siliques was extracted using TransZol plant (TransGen, Beijing, China) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The RNA was treated with RNase-free recombinant DNase I (Takara). The integrity of the RNA was checked electrophoretically and quality assessment of total RNA was checked with NanoDrop™ ND-2000c Spectrophotometer (Thermo). The isolated RNA was then subjected to reverse transcription by using the SuperScript™ III Reverse Transcriptase kit (Invitrogen). Quantitative real-time PCR was performed on each cDNA sample with TransStart Top Green qPCR SuperMix (TransGen) on chromo4 real-time PCR detection system (Bio-Rad) according to the manufacturer’s protocol. The measured Ct values were converted to relative copy numbers using the ΔΔCt method. Amplification of Actin2 was used as an internal control to normalize all data. To enable statistical analysis, three fully independent biological replicates were obtained and subjected to real-time PCR run in triplicate. Raw data were standardized as described previously (Willems et al. CITATION). Primers used for real-time PCR of flowering-related genes are listed in Table 1.[[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]] Fluorescent proteins were attached to the C terminus and the N terminus of AtDBP1 protein, respectively. To get the C terminus fusion plasmid, cDNA fragment containing the AtDBP1 coding region without stop codon was amplified by PCR using primers: F: 5′-GGAATTCCAATATGGAAGAAACTAG-3′ and R: 5′-CGGGATCCCGAGTAGTTTCC-3′. The PCR product was then inserted downstream from the CaMV 35S promoter and in-frame with the 5′ terminus of the GFP gene in the pBSK vector to obtain the AtDBP1:GFP fusion plasmid. To get the N terminus fusion plasmid, the cDNA coding region was amplified by PCR using primers: F: 5′-ATGATGGCTTAAUATGGAAG-3′ and R: 5′-GGTTTAAUCCAATTAGTTTCC-3′. The PCR product was then inserted downstream from the CaMV 35S promoter and in-frame with the 3′ terminus of the YFP gene in the pPS48YFPu vector constructed according to Nour-Eldin et al. (CITATION) to obtain the YFP:AtDBP1 fusion plasmid. The recombinant AtDBP1:GFP and YFP:AtDBP1 fusion plasmids were introduced into onion epidermal cells by particle bombardment. The plasmid pBSK and pPS48YFPu were used as positive controls. Onion scale leaves with the inner epidermal side up (6 × 6 cm2) were placed on MS medium containing 2 % sugar and were bombarded with 2 µg plasmid under 27 Hg vacuum and a helium pressure of 1150 psi at a target distance of 9 cm. After bombardment, plates containing the bombarded tissues were incubated in a growth chamber for 16 h at darkness. The inner epidermis was striped with stainless steel forceps and GFP and YFP fluorescence was observed using a confocal laser-scanning microscope (Zeiss LSM 700) with the 488 and 513 nm argon laser, respectively.
