!~ABS~! Forward genetics approaches have helped elucidate the anthocyanin biosynthetic pathway in plants. Here, we used the Arabidopsis banyuls (ban) mutant, which accumulates anthocyanins, instead of colorless proanthocyanidin precursors, in immature seeds. In contrast to standard screens for mutants lacking anthocyanins in leaves/stems, we mutagenized ban plants and screened for mutants showing differences in pigmentation of immature seeds. The pale banyuls1 (pab1) mutation caused reduced anthocyanin pigmentation in immature seeds compared with ban. Immature pab1 ban seeds contained less anthocyanins and flavonols than ban, but showed normal expression of anthocyanin biosynthetic genes. In contrast to pab1, introduction of a flavonol-less mutation into ban did not produce paler immature seeds. Map-based cloning showed that two independent pab1 alleles disrupted the MATE-type transporter gene FFT/DTX35. Complementation of pab1 with FFT confirmed that mutation in FFT causes the pab1 phenotype. During development, FFT promoter activity was detected in the seed-coat layers that accumulate flavonoids. Anthocyanins accumulate in the vacuole and FFT fused to GFP mainly localized in the vacuolar membrane. Heterologous expression of grapevine MATE-type anthocyanin transporter gene partially complemented the pab1 phenotype. These results suggest that FFT acts at the vacuolar membrane in anthocyanin accumulation in the Arabidopsis seed coat, and that our screening strategy can reveal anthocyanin-related genes that have not been found by standard screening.
!~RES~! Dry seeds of ban-4 were mutagenized using carbon ion beams, as described Shikazono et al. (CITATION). Screening for immature seeds that showed altered anthocyanin levels compared to parental ban-4 identified M2 candidate mutant lines with a paler immature seed color phenotype. One of these, pab1 (pa le b anyuls 1), was characterized in this study. Because the pab1 phenotype was only detected in the ban background, hereafter we referred to this mutant as pab1 ban. As shown in Fig. 2A, the pab1 ban mutants showed obvious pale anthocyanin pigmentation at 6 DAF. Backcrossing of pab1 ban with the parental ban-4 suggested that the pab1 mutation is recessive (data not shown). [[FIGURE]]  We used HPLC to determine the flavonoid composition of immature seeds of pab1 ban plants. In extracts of immature seeds from the parental ban plants, we observed one major peak in the absorbance at 517 nm (Fig. 2B, peak 1 in upper left). Comparison with the HPLC pattern of commercial standard cyanidin-3-glucoside (Cy3G) showed the same retention time as the peak in ban, demonstrating that ban immature seeds contain Cy3G as a major anthocyanin. By contrast, we found remarkable reduction of the peak of Cy3G in extracts from the pab1 ban mutants (Fig. 2B, lower left), suggesting that Cy3G levels were reduced in pab1 ban immature seeds. For flavonols, we detected two strong peaks in extracts of immature ban seeds (Fig. 2B, upper right). The same peak pattern was confirmed with Col immature seed extracts (data not shown). The flavonoid profile of Col immature seeds was recently reported (Routaboul et al. CITATION). According to that report, the two major peaks in ban were likely to be quercetin rhamnoside-hexosides (peak 2) and quercetin-3-O-rhamnosides (peak 3). The latter peak overlapped with a peak of the standard compound quercetin-3-O-rhamnoside. In pab1 ban compared with ban, both of these major peaks were lower and one minor peak with a retention time of 26.5 min was newly detected (Fig. 2B, lower right). To address the reason for the decreased amounts of flavonoids in pab1 ban immature seeds, we used RT-PCR to examine the expression of flavonoid biosynthetic genes in immature seeds of pab1 ban and parental ban plants. We focused on eight genes. These included four that function in both anthocyanin and flavonol biosynthesis, CHALCONE SYNTHASE (CHS), CHALCONE ISOMERASE (CHI), FLAVANONE 3-HYDROXYLASE (F3H) and FLAVONOID 3′ HYDROXYLASE (F3′H). We also examined a flavonol-specific gene (FLAVONOL SYNTHASE1; FLS1), and three anthocyanin-specific genes, DIHYDROFLAVONOL 4-REDUCTASE (DFR), LEUCOANTHOCYANIDIN DIOXYGENASE (LDOX), and GLUTATHIONE S-TRANSFERASE (GST). As shown in Fig. 2C, the pab1 ban and ban plants showed no significant difference in expression levels of the eight genes. These results suggested that the reduction in anthocyanin and flavonol contents was not due to a reduction of expression of their biosynthetic genes. Flavonols can act as co-pigments in planta by stabilizing anthocyanin-containing macromolecules (Brouillard and Dangles CITATION). To test whether the reduction of flavonol contents triggers the paler pigmentation phenotype in pab1 ban immature seeds, we introduced a mutation in the flavonol biosynthetic pathway into the ban background by crossing flavonol synthase1 (fls1-2) with ban-4, and compared the immature seeds of fls1 ban and ban siblings. The fls1 ban double mutant did not show a paler phenotype than ban (data not shown). This result suggested that the pale coloration of pab1 ban immature seeds was caused directly by decreased accumulation of anthocyanins but not flavonols. We next used map-based cloning to identify the gene responsible for the pab1 ban phenotype, using a mapping population from crosses of pab1-1 ban-4 (in the Col background) with ban-1 (in the Ws background). Chromosome walking and sequencing analysis demonstrated that an approximately 6.5-kb deletion occurred in the middle of chromosome 4 of the pab1-1 allele (Fig. 3A, C). This deleted region was found to contain 4 annotated genes: At4g25630, At4g25635, At4g25640, and At4g25650. The ORFs of At4g25630 and At4g25650 were interrupted by deletion boundaries, whereas the ORFs of At4g25635 and At4g25640 were completely deleted. One of the genes, At4g25640 [named previously as Flower Flavonoid Transporter (FFT)/Detoxification35 (DTX35)], encodes a multidrug and toxin extrusion (MATE)-type transporter protein previously implicated in flavonol accumulation, although its involvement in anthocyanin accumulation was unclear (Thompson et al. CITATION). Focusing our attention on this gene (hereafter referred to as FFT), we attempted to determine whether FFT is responsible for the pab1 ban phenotype. First, we tested whether an fft mutant could affect the ban phenotype by crossing the T-DNA insertion line fft-1 (see Fig. 3B) with ban-4 to construct a double mutant line. Immature seeds of the double mutant were obviously paler than ban (Fig. 4A). Second, further screening in our mutant population identified another pab1 mutant allele (pab1-2, Fig. 4B), which possessed a nonsense mutation in FFT, resulting in a truncated FFT protein (Leu218stop; Fig. 3B). Third, introduction of an approximately 5.5-kb genomic region encompassing the FFT promoter and ORF (gFFT) into the pab1 ban mutant complemented the paler anthocyanin phenotype in immature seeds (Fig. 4C). These results demonstrated that mutation in FFT is responsible for the reduced level of anthocyanins in pab1 ban immature seeds. Base on the results, two mutated genes isolated in this study (pab1-1 and pab1-2) were named as alleles of fft, such as pab1-1/fft-4 and pab1-2/fft-5 (see Fig. 3B). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  The Arabidopsis seed coat consists of three inner and two outer integument layers (Beeckman et al. CITATION). In ban, anthocyanins accumulate in the innermost layer of the inner integument layers (endothelium or ii1 layer; Albert et al. CITATION). To determine whether FFT is expressed in the endothelium, we expressed GFP under the control of the FFT promoter. To this end, an approximately 2-kb genomic region immediately upstream of the FFT start codon was recovered as a promoter fragment and cloned into a GFP expression vector. The resultant construct, ProFFT::GFP, was introduced into Col, and transformants were isolated on plates containing the appropriate antibiotics. Focusing on immature seed development, we found GFP fluorescence in seed coats. At the immature seed stage, FFT promoter activity was detected in the endothelium of several independent transformants (Fig. 5). Additionally, FFT promoter activity was detected in two outer integument layers (Fig. 5). Of the two outer integument layers, the inner layer (oi1 layer) accumulates flavonols (Pourcel et al. CITATION), while the outer layer (oi2 layer) accumulates seed mucilage (Beeckman et al. CITATION). Expression of FFT in the oi2 layer could be related to the decreased seed mucilage found in fft-1 mature seeds (Thompson et al. CITATION). [[FIGURE]]  The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR) database (http://arabidopsis.org) documents two types of FFT mRNA, which differ in length due to different splicing patterns (see Fig. 3B). To determine which type of FFT is expressed in immature seeds, full-length FFT cDNAs were isolated from immature seeds of Col and ban at 3–4 DAF. Only the shorter FFT cDNA (At4g25640.1 in TAIR) was detected in immature seeds of Col and ban, and we used this cDNA for further analysis. To determine the subcellular localization of FFT proteins, FFT was expressed as fusions with the N- or C-terminus of GFP under the control of the 35S promoter (35S::GFP-FFT or 35S::FFT-GFP). The pab1 ban mutants were transformed with these constructs. Most of the transformants (9 out of 10 transformants) showed higher levels of anthocyanins in immature seeds compared with pab1 ban (Fig. 6A), indicating that both fusion proteins are functional in planta. Initial attempts to identify the precise subcellular localization of FFT in immature seed coats of the transformants were problematic due to weak fluorescence and the depth of the target cells. Therefore, we observed root and hypocotyl cells of the transformants at the seedling stage. As shown in Fig. 6B, C, FFT localized to the vacuolar membranes in the meristematic root cells (Fig. 6B) and sub-epidermal cells of the hypocotyls (Fig. 6C). Furthermore, we confirmed similar localization patterns of FFT in T87 Arabidopsis cultured cell lines expressing GFP-FFT (Fig. 6D). These fluorescence patterns were the same regardless of the position of GFP in the fusion protein (data not shown). [[FIGURE]]  Previously, MATE-type transporter genes from grapevine, anthoMATE1 (AM1) and AM3, were reported to be localized to vacuolar membranes for functioning as anthocyanin transporters (Gomez et al. CITATION, CITATION). In order to address the function of FFT, we carried out the complementation test as to whether AM3 could rescue pab1 phenotype. Seven independent transformants were obtained in a pab1 ban background under the growth in antibiotics-containing media. Based on the immature seed phenotypes at 6 DAF, the transformants were divided into two groups: three lines were partially rescued (Group 1), whereas the remaining four lines were not rescued (Group 2) from pab1 ban phenotype (Fig. 7A). RT-PCR using young siliques’ RNA for four independent transformants suggested that, as shown in Fig. 7B, AM3 was expressed in young siliques of Group 1’s members but less or not in those of Group 2’s members. Then, to know the relationship between AM3 expression and anthocyanin accumulation, quantitative analysis of anthocyanins was performed using immature seeds of five representative lines of transformants. The results indicated that the Cy3G contents in extracts from members of Group 2 were indistinguishable from pab1 ban (about 1.9 µM). On the other hand, the Cy3G contents in extracts from members of Group 1 were significantly higher than those of Group 2 (Fig. 7C). These results suggested that AM3 could exhibit the complementary role to FFT in planta. Considering the Cy3G contents in extracts of ban-4 (about 10 µM), the effect of AM3 on anthocyanin accumulation was somewhat limited. The limited effect might be explained by substrate preference of AM3; acylated anthocyanins are the best substrates whereas glucosylated anthcyanins such as Cy3G are poorly transported (Gomez et al. CITATION). [[FIGURE]]  In ban seeds, disruption of the first enzyme in the PA-specific route, anthocyanidin reductase (ANR), changes the metabolic flow from a PA-producing to an anthocyanin-producing route, thus causing anthocyanin accumulation (Xie et al. CITATION, see Fig. 1). We hypothesized that the pab1 ban phenotype derives from a lack of functional FFT in the endothelium (ii1 layer), and thus we next investigated the contribution of FFT to PA accumulation. PA accumulation levels generally correspond to the levels of brown color in mature Arabidopsis seeds (Koornneef CITATION; Lepiniec et al. CITATION). At the mature stage, the seed color of fft-1 was indistinguishable from Col (Fig. 8A). We also examined PA accumulation at the immature seed stage with vanillin, which reacts with monomers of PA precursors and terminal units of PAs to produce red-colored products (Debeaujon et al. CITATION). Vanillin staining indicated that fft-1 mutants and Col had similar PA accumulation in immature seeds (Fig. 8B). These results suggested that mutation in FFT has little effect on PA accumulation. [[FIGURE]]  Previous work showed that TT12 operates in the endothelium of Arabidopsis immature seeds, and plays a role in PA accumulation (Debeaujon et al. CITATION; Marinova et al. CITATION). To determine whether TT12 is involved in the anthocyanin accumulation in ban endothelium, we crossed the tt12-2 mutation (Col background) with ban-4 (Col background) and examined the immature seeds. In the tt12-2 ban-4 double mutant, immature seeds (4, 6, and 8 DAF) showed a similar phenotype to ban-4 (Fig. 9). Double mutants with different alleles of ban (tt12-2 ban-1, tt12-2 ban-4, and tt12-2 ban-salk) showed similar phenotypes (Fig. 9B). Based on these results, FFT could have a different role from TT12 in flavonoid accumulation in the seed coat. [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~!  Arabidopsis thaliana L. mutant ban-4/anthocyanin spotted testa (Tanaka et al. CITATION) in the Columbia (Col) background was used for mutagenesis (see below). Another ban mutant (ban-1; Albert et al. CITATION) in the Wassilewskija (Ws) background was used for preparation of the mapping population. fft-1 (Salk_104224; Thompson et al. CITATION), fft-3 (Salk_057798), and ban-salk (Salk_040250) are T-DNA insertion lines in the Col background, and fls1-2 (Stracke et al. CITATION) is a T-DNA insertion line in the Nössen background. Plants were grown in pots containing a 1:1 mixture of Metro-Mix 350 (Scotts-Sierra Horticultural Products, Marysville, OH) and medium-sized vermiculite (Verm-piece, Hakugen, Japan) under 16 h-light in a growth chamber controlled at 23 °C. Dry seeds of ban-4 were irradiated with 150 Gy of a 220 MeV carbon ion beam at the Takasaki Ion Accelerators for Advanced Radiation Application, Takasaki Advanced Radiation Research Institute, JAEA, Japan. Details of the ion beam irradiation were as previously described (Tanaka et al. CITATION). Irradiated seeds were self-pollinated to obtain M2 seeds. M2 seedlings were grown individually, and the immature M3 seeds (the seed coat phenotype depends on the genotype of the M2 generation) were dissected from the young siliques on the 6th day after flowering (DAF) and observed under a stereomicroscope (M125, Leica Microsystems GmbH, Germany). Immature seeds dissected from young siliques at 6 DAF were used for flavonoid analysis. The seeds were ground in 100× their volume of 50 % methanol, and centrifuged at 14,000×g at 4 °C for 10 min. The supernatant was recovered, filtered through a 0.45 µm filter, and used for HPLC analysis (Akita et al. CITATION). HPLC analysis was conducted using an Inertsil ODS-3 reversed-phase column (4.6 mm × 100 mm, GL Sciences, Japan) at 40 °C and equipped with a photodiode array detector. Two kinds of solvents were used: solvent A consisting of 1.5 % (v/v) phosphoric acid, and solvent B consisting of 1.5 % (v/v) phosphoric acid, 20 % (v/v) acetic acid, and 25 % (v/v) acetonitrile. A linear gradient program was used, with 25–40 % solvent B during a 50-min run and a flow rate of 0.8 mL min−1. Anthocyanins and flavonols were evaluated by measuring the absorbance at 517 and 348 nm, respectively. Total RNA was extracted from young siliques (4 DAF) using an RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen). First-strand cDNA was synthesized using SuperScript III reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Using gene-specific primers (listed in Supplementary Table 1), RT-PCR was performed using different numbers of PCR cycles. Amplification of ELONGATION FACTOR 1αA4 was used as an internal standard. A mapping population was prepared by crossing the pab1-1 ban-4 mutant (Col background) with ban-1 (Ws background). F2 individuals showing the pab1 ban phenotype were subsequently used for chromosome walking. Genomic DNA was extracted by a standard cetyltrimethylammonium bromide (CTAB) method (Murray and Thompson CITATION), and was used for cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence (CAPS) and simple sequence length polymorphism (SSLP) mapping analysis (Konieczny and Ausubel CITATION; Bell and Ecker CITATION). For confirmation of a large deletion in the pab1-1 ban genome, the specific primers U5258 and L13362 were designed from the BAC L73G19 sequence and used for standard PCR analysis. The sequences of these primers are shown in Supplementary Table 1. Although this primer combination theoretically amplifies a fragment of over 8 kb, this long fragment was difficult to amplify under standard PCR conditions from Col and ban-4 genomic DNA, and only fragments that were shortened by a deletion or rearrangement were successfully amplified. Standard recombinant DNA techniques were used for construction of the plasmids, and plasmid DNA sequences were confirmed at the appropriate steps. The FFT promoter region was amplified from Col genomic DNA using the specific primers ProFFT-F(SacI) and ProFFT-R(AgeI). Sequences of the primers are shown in Supplementary Table 1. Amplified fragments were cloned into the pGEM-T Easy vector (Promega). The inserted DNA was recovered following digestion with SacI and AgeI, and re-cloned into the binary vector pEGAD (Cutler et al. CITATION) that was digested with the same enzymes, to replace the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter with the FFT promoter. In the resultant plasmid, the FFT promoter drives expression of GFP (pProFFT::GFP). The genomic region containing the FFT open reading frame (ORF) was isolated by PCR. The amplified genomic fragment including the full-length FFT gene was cloned into the pGEM-T Easy vector. The fragment containing the FFT ORF (about 3 kb in length) was recovered by digestion with NsiI, and ligated with a FFT promoter fragment that was digested with EcoRI and NsiI. The ligated genomic fragment of the FFT promoter and ORF (about 5.5 kb in length) was then cloned into the EcoRI- and NsiI-digested binary vector pBI101 (Jefferson et al. CITATION). Full-length FFT cDNA expressed in immature seeds (3–4 DAF) (At4g25640.1) was isolated from Col using 3′- and 5′-rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) protocols (Frohman et al. CITATION; Kitamura et al. CITATION). Full-length FFT cDNAs with or without the TAG stop codon were amplified and cloned into pENTR entry vectors of the Gateway system (Invitrogen). Using these clones, together with GFP expression vectors pK7WGF2 and pK7FWG2 (Karimi et al. CITATION), GFP-FFT and FFT-GFP expression vectors were constructed according to the manufacturer’s protocol (Invitrogen). The resultant plasmids were designated as p35S::GFP-FFT and p35S::FFT-GFP, respectively. These expression plasmids were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 harboring the helper plasmid pMP90 (Koncz and Schell CITATION). The Agrobacterium clones harboring plasmids of interests were used to transform Arabidopsis plants by the floral dip method (Clough and Bent CITATION). Transformants were grown on media supplemented with the appropriate antibiotics, and stable lines of plants were established for further analysis. T87 Arabidopsis cultured cells were also transformed with GFP fusion protein constructs by the method of Ogawa et al. (CITATION). The transformants and cell lines expressing GFP-FFT and FFT-GFP were used for determination of FFT localization within the cell. Full-length cDNA of grapevine MATE transporter gene, anthoMATE3 (AM3), was kindly provided from Dr. Agnès Ageorges. The AM3 cDNA was also cloned into the Gateway expression vector pK7FWG2 and introduced into pab1 ban Arabidopsis plants by the methods mentioned above. Transformants expressing GFP proteins were observed using a confocal laser scanning microscope (CLSM; FV1000, Olympus, Japan). Immature seeds dissected from young siliques at 6 DAF were stained with 1 % (w/v) vanillin for 10 min, as described by Kitamura et al. (CITATION).
