!~ABS~! Endoplasmic reticulum stress is defined as the accumulation of unfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum, and is caused by conditions such as heat or agents that cause endoplasmic reticulum stress, including tunicamycin and dithiothreitol. Autophagy, a major pathway for degradation of macromolecules in the vacuole, is activated by these stress agents in a manner dependent on inositol-requiring enzyme 1b (IRE1b), and delivers endoplasmic reticulum fragments to the vacuole for degradation. In this study, we examined the mechanism for activation of autophagy during endoplasmic reticulum stress in Arabidopsis thaliana. The chemical chaperones sodium 4–phenylbutyrate and tauroursodeoxycholic acid were found to reduce tunicamycin- or dithiothreitol-induced autophagy, but not autophagy caused by unrelated stresses. Similarly, over-expression of BINDING IMMUNOGLOBULIN PROTEIN (BIP), encoding a heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) molecular chaperone, reduced autophagy. Autophagy activated by heat stress was also found to be partially dependent on IRE1b and to be inhibited by sodium 4–phenylbutyrate, suggesting that heat-induced autophagy is due to accumulation of unfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum. Expression in Arabidopsis of the misfolded protein mimics zeolin or a mutated form of carboxypeptidase Y (CPY*) also induced autophagy in an IRE1b-dependent manner. Moreover, zeolin and CPY* partially co-localized with the autophagic body marker GFP–ATG8e, indicating delivery to the vacuole by autophagy. We conclude that accumulation of unfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum is a trigger for autophagy under conditions that cause endoplasmic reticulum stress.
!~RES~! Previously, we showed that the ER stress agents TM and DTT trigger autophagy in Arabidopsis (Liu et al., CITATION). PBA and TUDCA are chemical chaperones that reduce ER stress-induced programmed cell death in Arabidopsis (Watanabe and Lam, CITATION). PBA and TUDCA stabilize unfolded proteins and prevent their aggregation, thus helping to relieve ER stress (Ozcan et al., CITATION). Here, these chemical chaperones were used to study the effect of accumulation of unfolded proteins in the ER lumen on autophagy activation. We hypothesized that, as PBA and TUDCA reduce the accumulation of unfolded proteins, they may prevent the induction of autophagy upon treatment with TM or DTT. Seven-day-old wild-type (WT) and GFP–ATG8e transgenic seedlings grown on solid medium were transferred to liquid medium containing TM or DTT, or TM or DTT plus PBA or TUDCA, for 6–8 h. GFP–ATG8e is an autophagosome-localized fluorescent protein fusion that is well characterized as an autophagy marker (Xiong et al., CITATION). WT seedlings were stained with the autophagosome-selective dye monodansylcadaverine (MDC) (Biederbick et al., CITATION; Munafo and Colombo, CITATION; Contento et al., CITATION) and visualized by fluorescence microscopy. The number of MDC- or GFP–ATG8e-labeled autophagosomes was quantified per section. As expected, seedlings treated with TM or DTT had significantly more autophagosomes than the solvent control (dimethylsulfoxide) (Figure 1c,d). However, when seedlings were co-treated with PBA or TUDCA and TM or DTT, the number of autophagosomes was significantly reduced compared to TM or DTT treatment alone (Figure 1c,d). The reduction in autophagosome number upon TUDCA treatment of DTT-treated samples was only marginally significant (P value = 0.06, Student's t test) due to the high variation in autophagosome number (Figure 1d). Our previous study showed that the number of autophagosomes correlates with induction of autophagy under these conditions (Liu et al., CITATION). Therefore, these results indicate that PBA and TUDCA inhibit induction of autophagy during ER stress by reducing the load of unfolded proteins. [[FIGURE]] To examine whether the effect of chemical chaperones is specific for autophagy caused by ER stress agents, the effect of PBA on carbon starvation-induced autophagy was examined. Carbon starvation-induced autophagy is regulated by an NADPH oxidase-dependent signaling pathway, which is distinct from that caused by ER stress (Liu et al., CITATION). Seven-day-old WT seedlings were transferred to medium without sucrose, and incubated in the dark for 4 days to produce a fixed-carbon deficiency. On the 5th day, seedlings were transferred to liquid medium supplemented with PBA but without sucrose. After 8 h incubation, seedlings were stained with MDC, and the number of autophagosomes per section was counted. The control seedlings for sucrose starvation (Figure 1g) had a higher basal level of autophagy than controls for ER stress treatments (Figure 1c,e) as the seedlings were older in the starvation assays. PBA treatment was found to have no effect on the number of autophagosomes during starvation (Figure 1g). We conclude that PBA specifically prevents autophagy during ER stress and not during carbon starvation. This is most likely due to the chaperone function of PBA reducing unfolded protein accumulation in the ER lumen. This suggests that accumulation of unfolded proteins in the ER is an upstream signal that induces autophagy specifically in response to ER stress agents. Munch et al. (CITATION) recently showed in a study of benzothiadiazole-induced cell death that autophagy-defective mutants are more sensitive to benzothiadiazole, a salicylic acid agonist, and that TM treatment enhanced this sensitivity. However, their results showed that a low concentration (5 μg/L) of TM alone does not influence growth of autophagy-defective mutants. Based on our previous results showing that TM induces autophagy (Liu et al., CITATION) and the observation that PBA reduces TM-induced autophagy (Figure 1a,c), we hypothesized that autophagy-defective Arabidopsis mutants may be hypersensitive to higher concentrations of TM, and that this sensitivity may be rescued by PBA co-treatment. To determine the effect of TM and PBA on their growth and survival, WT, atg5–1 (Thompson et al., CITATION) and atg7–2 (Chung et al., CITATION) seeds were plated on half-strength MS medium or medium containing 100 μg/L TM (Koizumi et al., CITATION) or containing 100 μg/L TM and 0.13 μm PBA. The percentage of surviving seedlings was determined after 2 weeks. Seedlings were classified into two groups: survival was defined as seedlings that had two green cotyledons and two green true leaves; seedlings with yellow leaves or cotyledons were defined as dead (Figure 2b). On control medium, atg5–1 and atg7–2 seedlings grew similarly to WT (Figure 2a). However, on TM-containing medium, atg5–1 and atg7–2 mutants had a significantly lower survival than WT (Figure 2c). With PBA co-treatment, the survival percentages for atg5–1 and atg7–2 were significantly higher compared to TM treatment alone. This result indicates that autophagy contributes to ER stress tolerance, and that reducing unfolded protein levels using PBA increases the ER stress tolerance of autophagy mutants. [[FIGURE]] BiP is an abundant molecular chaperone in the ER lumen that prevents protein aggregation and assists in protein folding (Kimata et al., CITATION). In plants, BiP expression increases upon ER stress via the UPR (Deng et al., CITATION; Srivastava et al., CITATION). We hypothesized that, if autophagy is activated due to accumulation of unfolded proteins in the ER lumen, BiP should antagonize this activation, similarly to PBA and TUDCA. To address this hypothesis, the induction of autophagy by DTT in BiP over-expressing (OE) transgenic Arabidopsis plants (Srivastava et al., CITATION) was assessed. Seven-day-old seedlings of two independent BiP1 OE lines (BiP1-4OE and BiP1-9OE) or BiP3 OE lines (BiP3-1OE and BiP3-2OE) were incubated in liquid medium supplemented with 2 mm DTT for 6–8 h, followed by staining with MDC to detect autophagosomes. All OE lines showed significantly decreased autophagy compared with WT seedlings upon DTT treatment (Figure 3a,b). This suggests that BiP reduces DTT-induced autophagy, presumably by reducing the load of unfolded proteins in the ER. However, it should be noted that over-expression of BiP1 or BiP3 did not reduce the basal level of autophagy. [[FIGURE]] To confirm this result, leaf protoplasts isolated from 4-week-old BiP1-9OE or BiP3-1OE plants, as representative lines, transiently expressing a GFP–ATG8e fusion protein, were treated with DTT and concanamycin A (ConA) for 6 h. ConA is a vacuolar H+-ATPase inhibitor that inhibits the degradation of autophagic bodies, leading to their accumulation in the vacuole (Drose et al., CITATION; Dettmer et al., CITATION). Autophagy was defined as activated in cells with more than three autophagic bodies, as determined by fluorescence microscopy, as WT cells typically have a basal autophagy level of fewer than three autophagic bodies per cell. Upon DTT treatment, a significantly lower percentage of BiP1-9OE or BiP3-1OE protoplasts showed active autophagy compared to WT (Figure 3c,d). Based on these results, we conclude that the molecular chaperone BiP prevented DTT-induced autophagy by reducing the accumulation of unfolded proteins in the ER lumen. Heat produces ER stress in Arabidopsis as demonstrated by the splicing of bZIP60 mRNA by IRE1b (Deng et al., CITATION) and by BiP up-regulation (Leborgne-Castel et al., CITATION). In addition, the autophagy-defective mutants atg5 and atg7 are more sensitive to heat stress than WT Arabidopsis (Zhou et al., CITATION). We hypothesized that elevated temperature increases accumulation of unfolded proteins in the ER, leading to ER stress that in turn activates autophagy. Previously, heat stress was shown to adversely affect the growth of atg5 and atg7 adult plants (Zhou et al., CITATION). To confirm this result under conditions in which autophagy may easily be monitored, we examined the effect of heat stress on young Arabidopsis seedlings. Seven-day-old WT, atg5–1 (Thompson et al., CITATION) and atg7–2 (Chung et al., CITATION) seedlings were incubated at 37°C for 16–17 h, followed by 7 days of recovery at room temperature. Seedlings subjected to heat treatment were classified in two groups: survivors, defined as seedlings with two green cotyledons and two green true leaves, or non-surviving seedlings, with yellow leaves or cotyledons (Figure S1a–c). The atg5–1 and atg7–2 mutants had a significantly lower percentage of surviving seedlings than WT (Figure S1d). This confirmed that autophagy-defective mutants have less tolerance to heat stress at the seedling stage. To examine whether heat stress induces autophagy in young seedlings, 7-day-old WT, atg5–1 mutant and GFP–ATG8e transgenic seedlings grown on solid medium were transferred to liquid medium and incubated at 42°C for 5–6 h in the dark, or at room temperature as a control. Samples were incubated at room temperature for 2 h after heat stress, a time point at which the UPR is initiated (Deng et al., CITATION). WT and atg5–1 seedlings were then stained with MDC to assess autophagy; autophagosomes were visualized directly in GFP–ATG8e plants. Significantly more autophagosomes were observed upon exposure to heat stress than in the room temperature control (Figure 4a,b). Very few punctate structures were seen in the atg5–1 mutant, confirming that the punctate structures are autophagosomes (Figure 4a). These results confirmed that heat stress induces autophagy in young Arabidopsis seedlings. [[FIGURE]] We showed above that PBA reduces TM- or DTT- induced autophagy, suggesting that accumulation of unfolded proteins is an activator of autophagy. Therefore, we tested whether heat stress-induced autophagy is also caused by accumulation of unfolded proteins. Seven-day-old WT and GFP–ATG8e transgenic seedlings grown on solid medium were incubated in liquid medium at 42°C for 5–6 h, followed by incubation at room temperature for 2 h in the presence of PBA. The number of GFP–ATG8e- or MDC-labeled autophagosomes per section was quantified. Significantly fewer autophagosomes were seen in heat-stressed seedlings with PBA treatment (Figure 4a,b) compared to a control without addition of PBA. These results indicate that heat stress-induced autophagy is also caused by accumulation of unfolded proteins in the ER. If heat stress induces autophagy via the UPR, disruption of IRE1b function would be expected to block induction of autophagy upon heat stress (Liu et al., CITATION). Seven-day-old ire1b and WT seedlings were incubated at 42°C for 5–6 h, followed by a 2 h room temperature incubation, and stained with MDC to assess autophagy activation. As expected, WT seedlings have a basal level of autophagy under normal conditions, and autophagy was induced by heat stress (Figure 4c). The ire1b mutant showed a slight induction of autophagy with heat stress, but this was significantly lower than that in the WT with heat stress (Figure 4c). In summary, our results indicate that heat stress induces autophagy primarily through the IRE1b arm of the UPR via accumulation of unfolded proteins in the ER lumen. Zeolin is a recombinant protein fusion between phaseolin from bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) and zein from maize (Zea mays) that is retained in the ER due to the replacement of the N–terminal vacuolar sorting signal of phaseolin by zein and inter-chain disulfide bond formation, which causes protein aggregation (Mainieri et al., CITATION). Based on these characteristics, we hypothesized that zeolin mimics a constitutively misfolded protein, and will therefore induce ER stress and autophagy. To enable easy visualization of zeolin, it was fused with the fluorescent protein cerulean and transiently expressed from a 35S promoter. Arabidopsis leaf protoplasts isolated from 4-week-old plants were transformed using an ER marker (ER–YFP) (Nelson et al., CITATION), zeolin–cerulean or both constructs together, and incubated in the dark for 10–12 h. The fusion proteins were visualized by confocal microscopy. Control experiments with expression of either fusion protein alone confirmed that there was no fluorescence bleed-through between the two channels (Figure 5a). Upon co-expression of ER–YFP and free cerulean, YFP labeled the ER network and cerulean was mainly diffuse in the cytosol (Figure 5a). Upon zeolin–cerulean and ER–YFP co-transformation, cerulean-labeled punctate and aggregated structures co-localized with the YFP-labeled ER network (Figure 5a). Fluorescence profiling showed extensive overlap of these two fluorescence signals (Figure 5b). Previous research showed that zeolin tends to aggregate (Mainieri et al., CITATION; Bellucci et al., CITATION), and we found the zeolin accumulated in the ER, therefore we hypothesize that zeolin forms aggregates in the ER lumen. [[FIGURE]] As shown in Figure 5(a) and Figure S2, the expression of zeolin led to changes in the morphology of the ER network, with many aggregate-like structures present. This suggests that the ER network may be undergoing degradation or reorganization to counteract zeolin aggregation and ER stress. Therefore, we further hypothesized that aggregation of zeolin in the ER may induce autophagy by causing ER stress. To test this hypothesis, we first examined the effect of zeolin on induction of the UPR. Arabidopsis protoplasts were transformed with zeolin–cerulean or free cerulean constructs and incubated in the dark for 10–12 h. Protoplasts were harvested, followed by total RNA extraction and cDNA synthesis. To assess the activation of the UPR, the BIP3 expression level and the amount of spliced bZIP60 were examined by quantitative RT–PCR using gene-specific primers. The TiP41-like gene was used as an internal control and for normalization (Czechowski et al., CITATION). The amount of the spliced form of bZIP60 in protoplasts expressing zeolin–cerulean was 6.6-fold higher than that in the control (Figure 6a), whereas BIP3 expression was 11-fold higher than that in the control (Figure 6b). This indicates that zeolin expression causes ER stress and activation of the UPR in Arabidopsis. [[FIGURE]] Second, we examined the effect of zeolin expression on induction of autophagy. Zeolin-cerulean and GFP–ATG8e were co-expressed in WT and ire1b mutant Arabidopsis leaf protoplasts. Transformed protoplasts were incubated in the dark for 10–12 h, followed by treatment with ConA for 6 h to block vacuolar degradation. The percentage of protoplasts with activated autophagy (more than three autophagic bodies) was quantified. WT protoplasts expressing GFP–ATG8e alone had a low basal level of autophagy under normal conditions. As a positive control, WT protoplasts expressing GFP–ATG8e were treated with 160 mm NaCl (Liu et al., CITATION) for 6 h, and autophagy was significantly induced compared to control conditions (Figures 6c and S3). Only a basal level of autophagy was seen in WT and ire1b mutant protoplasts expressing GFP–ATG8e with free cerulean. However, significantly induced autophagy was seen in WT but not in ire1b protoplasts when zeolin–cerulean was expressed (Figure 6c,d). These results indicated that autophagy is induced by zeolin expression, most likely due to accumulation of unfolded proteins in the ER lumen. Moreover, this induction is partially dependent on IRE1b. A mutated form of carboxypeptidase Y (CPY*), which is located in the ER lumen in an unfolded state (Mancini et al., CITATION), was used to confirm these results. CPY* has been used as a model unfolded protein to study the ER-associated degradation pathway in yeast, mammalian cells and plants (Mancini et al., CITATION; Willer et al., CITATION; Yamamoto et al., CITATION). Similar to zeolin–cerulean-expressing cells, significant induction of autophagy was seen in CPY*–GFP-transformed protoplasts (Figure S4). When zeolin–cerulean- or CPY*–GFP-transformed protoplasts were treated with 1 mm PBA for 6 h, the number of autophagosomes was significantly reduced (Figures 6f and S4). These results indicate that autophagy is induced by zeolin or CPY* expression, most likely due to their accumulation as unfolded or misfolded proteins in the ER lumen. Autophagy plays an important role in degradation of the ER during ER stress (Liu et al., CITATION). As accumulation of zeolin in the ER activated autophagy (Figures 6c and 7a), we hypothesized that autophagy is involved in the degradation of zeolin aggregates. To address this hypothesis, leaf protoplasts were transformed with the zeolin–cerulean and GFP–ATG8e constructs, followed by incubation in the dark for 10–12 h. Transformed protoplasts were treated with ConA for 6 h and visualized by confocal microscopy. Control experiments with expression of either fusion protein alone confirmed that there was no fluorescence bleed-through between the two channels (Figure 7a). In protoplasts expressing GFP–ATG8e and free cerulean (GFP–ATG8e + Cer), cerulean and GFP were mainly diffuse in the cytoplasm (Figure 7a). When GFP–ATG8e and zeolin–cerulean were co-expressed (GFP–ATG8e + Zeo–Cer), zeolin–cerulean was mostly localized in the ER, as in Figure 5(a), and many autophagic bodies labeled by GFP were seen in the vacuole (Figure 7a). Diffuse cerulean signal was present in the vacuole, which may be due to the delivery of zeolin–cerulean through autophagy, or via other pathways, prior to addition of ConA. Moreover, several punctate structures labeled by cerulean were also seen in the vacuole, and they co-localized with GFP-labeled autophagic bodies (Figures 7a and S3). These results indicate that accumulation of zeolin in the ER lumen induces ER stress and autophagy, and support the hypothesis that zeolin aggregates may be transported to the vacuole by autophagy. Similar results were observed for CPY*, which co-localized with cerulean ATG8e in the vacuole after ConA treatment (Figure S4). Whether these proteins are selected for transport by autophagy or are simply transported in bulk along with other ER constituents is unknown. In summary, we demonstrated that zeolin (or CPY*) expression is sufficient to induce the UPR and autophagy, confirming that accumulation of unfolded proteins is a trigger for autophagy during ER stress. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana accession Columbia–0 seeds were surface-sterilized in 33% bleach, 0.1% v/v Triton X–100 for 20 min, and rinsed five times with sterile water. Sterilized seeds were kept in the dark at 4°C for at least 2 days. Arabidopsis plants were grown at 22°C under long-day conditions (16 h light) in soil or on half-strength solid MS medium (Murashige & Skoog vitamin and salt mixture; Caisson, http://www.caissonlabs.com) with 1% sucrose, 2.4 mm MES, pH 5.7, and 0.6% w/v Phytoblend agar Caisson; http://www.caissonlabs.com. The following T–DNA insertion mutants in the Col–0 background were used in this study: atg5–1 (Thompson et al., CITATION), atg7–2 (Chung et al., CITATION) and ire1b (Deng et al., CITATION). The following transgenic lines in the Col–0 background were used: GFP–ATG8e (Xiong et al., CITATION), BiP1 and BiP3 OE lines (Srivastava et al., CITATION). For TM or DTT treatment, 7-day-old seedlings grown on solid half-strength MS medium were transferred to liquid half-strength MS medium supplemented with 5 μg/ml TM or 2 mm DTT, or the solvent dimethylsulfoxide as a control, for 6–8 h in the dark. For PBA and TUDCA co-treatment, 1 mm PBA or 0.125 mm TUDCA (Watanabe and Lam, CITATION) were added, together with DTT or TM, in liquid half-strength MS medium. For sucrose starvation stress, light-grown 7-day-old seedlings grown on solid half-strength MS medium were transferred to solid half-strength MS medium with or without 1% w/v sucrose for 4 days in the dark. For PBA treatment, seedlings were then transferred to liquid half-strength MS medium supplemented with or without 1 mm PBA for 8 h in the dark. For heat stress treatment, 7-day-old seedlings grown on solid half-strength MS medium were transferred to liquid half-strength MS medium and incubated at 42°C for 5–6 h followed by 2 h at room temperature. For PBA treatment, 1 mm PBA was added to seedlings prior to the 2 h incubation at room temperature. For the TM survival assay, seeds were plated on half-strength MS medium with 0.1 mg/L TM and grown for 2 weeks before quantification. For the heat stress survival assay, seeds were plated on solid half-strength MS medium and grown for 1 week. They were then incubated at 37°C for 16 h and allowed to recover at 22°C in long-day conditions for 1 week before quantification. For ConA treatment, 1 μm ConA was added to samples as indicated; these samples were then incubated for 6–8 h in the dark. An equal amount of dimethylsulfoxide (solvent) was added to controls. The zeolin–pDHA construct (Mainieri et al., CITATION) and the CPY*–GFP construct (Yamamoto et al., CITATION) were generously provided by Alessandro Vitale Istituto di Biologia e Biotecnologia Agraria, Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche, Milano, Italy and Shuh-ichi Nishikawa Department of Biology; Faculty of Science, Niigata University; Nishi-ku, Niigata, Japan, respectively. Zeolin was amplified from the plasmid using gene-specific primers (Table S1), and ligated into the pAN578-cerulean vector (Rizzo et al., CITATION) using NheI and NcoI restriction sites. The final construct was verified by enzymatic digestion and sequencing. Arabidopsis seedlings were stained with MDC as described previously (Contento et al., CITATION). Seedlings were incubated in 0.05 mm MDC in PBS (1.37 mm NaCl, 2.7 mm KCl, 10 mm Na2HPO4, 1.8 mm KH2PO4, pH 7.4) for 10 min, followed by three brief washes with PBS at room temperature. The method for transient expression in Arabidopsis leaf protoplasts was adapted from that described by Sheen (CITATION). Twenty micrograms of plasmid DNA were used for each construct per transformation. Transformed protoplasts were incubated at room temperature in darkness for 10–12 h, followed by the indicated treatments. MDC-stained seedlings, GFP–ATG8e transgenic seedlings and GFP–ATG8e-transformed protoplasts were visualized using a Zeiss Axioplan II compound microscope equipped with an Axio Cam HRC digital imaging system (Zeiss; http://www.zeiss.com) at the Iowa State University Microscopy and Nanoimaging Facility. A 4′,6–diamidino-2–phenylindole (DAPI) filter was used for MDC fluorescence and a fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC) filter was used for GFP fluorescence. Confocal microscopy was performed using a Leica SP5 confocal laser scanning microscope (Leica Microsystems; http://www.leica-microsystems.com) at the Iowa State University Confocal and Multiphoton Facility, using a 63 × oil immersion objective (Leica). For co-localization experiments, a sequential laser scan with cerulean and GFP or cerulean and YFP was performed. The excitation and emission wavelengths for MDC were 345 and 455 nm, respectively, those for cerulean were 433 and 475 nm, those for GFP were 488 and 507 nm, and those for YFP were 514 and 527 nm. MDC- or GFP–ATG8e-labeled autophagosomes in seedling roots were manually counted, and only individual bright motile dots were counted as autophagosomes. Autophagosomes or autophagic bodies labeled by GFP–ATG8e in leaf protoplasts were directly counted under fluorescence microscopy. Co-localization images and the fluorescence profiles were generated with ImageJ using merging channels and RGB profile options (Abramoff et al., CITATION). Total RNA was extracted from transiently transformed protoplasts using a plant RNeasy kit (Qiagen; http://www.qiagen.com), and reverse-transcribed using a qScript Flex cDNA synthesis kit (Quanta BioSciences; http://www.quantabio.com) according to the manufacturers’ instructions. Quantitative RT–PCR was performed at the Iowa State University Genomic Technologies Facility using gene-specific primers (Table S1), PerfeCTA SYBR Green FastMix (Quanta BioSciences) and a Stratagene MX4000 multiplex PCR system (www.genomics.agilent.com), with three biological replicates. The TiP41-like gene was used as an internal control and for normalization (Czechowski et al., CITATION). The standard curve method was used to analyze the quantitative RT–PCR data (Larionov et al., CITATION). The relative expression level was determined using a standard curve and normalized to TiP41-like gene expression. Significant differences were assessed using Student's t test.
