!~ABS~! During waterlogging and the associated oxygen deprivation stress, plants respond by the induction of adaptive programs, including the redirected expression of gene networks toward the synthesis of core hypoxia-response proteins. Among these core response proteins in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) is the calcium sensor CML38, a protein related to regulator of gene silencing calmodulin-like proteins (rgsCaMs). CML38 transcripts are up-regulated more than 300-fold in roots within 6 h of hypoxia treatment. Transfer DNA insertional mutants of CML38 show an enhanced sensitivity to hypoxia stress, with lowered survival and more severe inhibition of root and shoot growth. By using yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) translational fusions, CML38 protein was found to be localized to cytosolic granule structures similar in morphology to hypoxia-induced stress granules. Immunoprecipitation of CML38 from the roots of hypoxia-challenged transgenic plants harboring CML38pro::CML38:YFP followed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analysis revealed the presence of protein targets associated with messenger RNA ribonucleoprotein (mRNP) complexes including stress granules, which are known to accumulate as messenger RNA storage and triage centers during hypoxia. This finding is further supported by the colocalization of CML38 with the mRNP stress granule marker RNA Binding Protein 47 (RBP47) upon cotransfection of Nicotiana benthamiana leaves. Ruthenium Red treatment results in the loss of CML38 signal in cytosolic granules, suggesting that calcium is necessary for stress granule association. These results confirm that CML38 is a core hypoxia response calcium sensor protein and suggest that it serves as a potential calcium signaling target within stress granules and other mRNPs that accumulate during flooding stress responses.
!~RES~! Analysis of the flooding- and hypoxia-induced transcript levels from a variety of microarray studies (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION) shows that, among the 50 CML and seven CALMODULIN (CaM) calcium sensor genes, CML38 is uniquely and acutely up-regulated in response to hypoxia (Supplemental Fig. S1). Phylogenetic analysis of CML38 (Supplemental Fig. S2) shows that it is part of a small subfamily of genes in Arabidopsis with structural and sequence homology to the regulator of gene silencing rgsCaM protein from tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum; CITATION). The most closely related protein to CML38 (At1g76650) is a tandem gene, CML39 (At1g76640), with 76% amino acid sequence identity to CML38 (Supplemental Fig. S3). Since microarray results might not resolve the expression of these two closely related gene products, CML38 and CML39 transcript levels in Arabidopsis seedlings challenged with hypoxia by complete submergence were assayed by quantitative reverse transcription (Q)-PCR (Fig. 1). CML38 showed acute elevation of transcript levels (greater than 300-fold increase in expression in the root tissue and approximately 100-fold in the shoot at 6 h of hypoxia), while CML39 showed only a minor (5-fold) increase (Fig. 1). The tissue-specific expression profile of CML38 during submergence stress was analyzed using CML38 promoter::GUS transgenic plants. Under normoxic conditions, CML38::GUS seedlings showed a basal level of expression at the hypocotyl-root junction in untreated seedlings (0 h). However, submergence of seedlings resulted in a rapid elevation of GUS activity in both root and shoot tissue (Fig. 1B), in support of the Q-PCR results. These findings confirm previous work that has placed CML38 into the small group of core hypoxia-response genes (CITATION) and suggest that CML38 may play a specialized role as a calcium sensor during this response. [[FIGURE]] Mutations that target core hypoxia-response genes in general result in a lower survival and/or increased sensitivity to anaerobic stress (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To determine the effects of the elimination of CML38 expression on Arabidopsis survival to anaerobic stress, a transfer DNA (T-DNA) mutant (Salk_066538C; referred to here as cml38) line with an insertion site within the coding region of CML38 (Supplemental Fig. S4) was characterized. Q-PCR analysis confirmed that cml38 plants do not express the CML38 transcript in response to hypoxia induction (Supplemental Fig. S4). Argon-induced anaerobiosis resulted in chlorosis of the apical shoot, reduction in the length of the primary root, and reduction in seedling growth of most of the cml38 mutant seedlings, with a survival rate significantly lower than wild-type plants (Fig. 2). [[FIGURE]] To test whether this effect was the result of reduced CML38 expression, cml38 plants were transformed with an expression construct consisting of CML38 fused to C-terminal yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. These plants showed recovery of CML38 expression (Supplemental Fig. S5) as well as restoration of survival frequencies to argon-mediated stress that were indistinguishable from wild-type plants (Fig. 2). This suggests that the loss of CML38 expression was responsible for the greater sensitivity of cml38 to anaerobic stress. To investigate the dynamics of CML38 protein expression as well as its subcellular localization, transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing CML38 with an in-frame C-terminal YFP fusion (CML38-YFP) were generated using a recombineering method (CITATION). The advantage of this approach is that it results in in situ production of a gene encoding the protein of interest tagged with a fluorescent reporter within the larger genomic context, which avoids the exclusion of cis-regulatory elements (CITATION). To verify that the CML38-YFP recombineering plants respond to hypoxia treatment, plants grown hydroponically were perfused with nitrogen gas and the levels of CML38-YFP transcripts and CML38-YFP protein were analyzed (Fig. 3). Q-PCR confirmed that CML38-YFP was induced by low-oxygen conditions, peaking at 4 h and remaining elevated throughout the assay period (Fig. 3). Analysis of CML38 protein levels by western blot with an anti-GFP antibody showed rapid accumulation of CML38-YFP protein, with a peak reached between 6 and 8 h after hypoxia induction (Fig. 3). [[FIGURE]] The subcellular localization of CML38 was investigated by fluorescence microscopy of the CML38-YFP recombineering plants (Fig. 4). Consistent with western-blot analysis, normoxic plants showed the absence of fluorescent signal while hypoxia triggered the appearance of the CML38-YFP fluorescent signal detected by 4 h after the onset of hypoxia and peaking by 8 h (Fig. 4A). Higher resolution images obtained by confocal fluorescence microscopy showed that the fluorescent signal consists of distinct cytosolic granule structures with sizes ranging to 3 μm (Fig. 4A). Statistical analysis of the size distribution of particles indicated two size classes, one approximately 0.2 to 0.5 μm and a second with an average of 1 μm. [[FIGURE]] To identify the potential targets of CML38, as well as the identity of the granulated structures in hypoxic roots, immunoprecipitation of CML38-YFP from extracts of root tissue from hypoxia-treated Arabidopsis CML38-YFP plants was performed, followed by tryptic digestion and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry peptide fingerprinting (Supplemental Table S1). Analyses of mock negative control immunoprecipitation samples from the hypoxia-treated wild type and a GFP transgenic background were used to identify and exclude false positives. By this approach, a total of 106 proteins were identified as CML38-YFP-interacting proteins (Supplemental Table S2), which could be divided into nine functional categories based on PANTHER analysis (CITATION; Supplemental Table S2; Supplemental Fig. S6). Potential insight into the nature of the CML38 granulated structures observed in Figure 4 came from the observation that a subset (48 proteins) of the CML38-interacting proteins have been characterized previously as proteins associated with messenger RNA nucleoprotein (mRNP) particles and/or RNA-processing functions (Supplemental Table S2, sheet 2). A summary of this protein subset (Table I) shows that they can be classified into several functional mRNP categories, including ribosomal proteins, translation initiation factors, heat shock proteins and chaperones, proteins associated with ubiquitination and protein degradation, mRNA-processing and degradation proteins, other RNA-binding proteins, and proteins associated with posttranscriptional gene silencing. The appearance of CML38-YFP granulated bodies in the hypoxia-challenged seedlings, and the finding of mRNP granule markers in CML38 immunoprecipitates, suggest that the appearance of CML38 granules may be the result of localization to hypoxia-induced stress granules (SG). It is well established that part of the hypoxia response in plants is the rapid formation of SG mRNP bodies that serve as translationally-repressed mRNA triage centers that facilitate the storage and/or transfer of mRNA to other RNA nucleoproteins during adaptation to hypoxia stress (CITATION; CITATION). To test this hypothesis, the colocalization of CML38 with the SG-specific marker protein RBP47 (CITATION) under hypoxia stress was investigated by transient cotransfection assays of Nicotiana benthamiana leaves with CML38:YFP and RBP47:cyan fluorescent protein (CFP) constructs (Fig. 5). As described previously (CITATION), N. benthamiana cells expressing fluorescently tagged RBP47-CFP show the appearance of fluorescent signal within cytosolic granule structures within minutes of hypoxia initiation (Fig. 5). Similarly, transfection of N. benthamiana with CML38-YFP shows the accumulation of cytosolic granules (Fig. 5A; Supplemental Fig. S7). In cells cotransfected with CML38-YFP and Rbp47-CFP, both fluorescent proteins show similar appearance of cytosolic granules, as well as appearance in the cell nucleus, within 30 min of hypoxia induction. Comparison of the merged images of cotransfected cells shows substantial colocalization of the two proteins (Fig. 5A) within cytosolic granules as well as the nucleus. The degree of colocalization between CML38 and Rbp47 was quantified by cross-correlation analysis (CITATION) using the method of CITATION; Fig. 5B). This method relies on cross-correlation analysis by computationally shifting one image (e.g. CML38) relative to the other image (e.g. Rbp47) and calculating the Pearson coefficient (PC). The PC is a quantitative measure of the pixel overlap in superimposed, merged dual-channel images (CITATION). PC values range from +1 to −1, with +1 representing theoretical complete (100%) correlation between the two fluorophores, −1 representing complete exclusion of the images, and 0 representing a random distribution of each image. Analysis of merged RBP47-CFP and CML38-YFP images shows a calculated PC value of 0.631, supporting strong colocalization of the two fluorescent signals (Fig. 5B). This result supports the prediction from the mass spectrometry (MS) experiments, as well as the known properties of SG dynamics in hypoxia-stressed Arabidopsis, and argues that the fluorescent granules found in hypoxic Arabidopsis roots in CML-YFP plants (Fig. 4) correspond, at least in part, to hypoxia-induced SGs. In further support of this, treatment of complementation plants expressing CML38-YFP with cycloheximide, which prevents the assembly of SGs (CITATION; CITATION), results in the loss of YFP signal in particulate structures and accumulation in the cell nucleus (Fig. 6). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Calcium sensor EF hand proteins, including CML38 (CITATION), exhibit calcium-dependent conformational changes that are associated with the regulation of function through interaction with cellular target proteins (CITATION). To investigate the role of calcium binding in CML38’s association with cytosolic granules, the effects of RR were investigated (Figs. 7 and 8). RR lowers cytosolic calcium levels by the inhibition of intracellular Ca2+ channels, and it has been shown previously to suppress the hypoxia-induced response in plant roots (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Application of RR to N. benthamiana leaves led to the loss of cytosolic CML38-YFP granules within 10 min of application, with CML38 fluorescence detected solely within foci in the nucleus (Fig. 7A). Similarly, RR treatment of hypoxia-challenged CML38-YFP recombineering plants results in a rapid (within 5 min) loss of fluorescent signal in granules (Fig. 7B). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To determine whether the effect of RR was on CML38’s association with SG or on the general integrity of these structures, its effect on N. benthamiana leaf cells cotransfected with CML38-YFP and RBP47-CFP was assessed (Fig. 8). The results show that RR treatment exhibited little effect on the association of RBP47 with SGs while the CML38 signal associated with these structures was lost in a time-dependent manner, suggesting that RR has no effect on SG integrity. Thus, it appears as if calcium is necessary for CML38’s association with SG structures, presumably through the calcium-dependent sensor function of CML38. Previous studies in both animals and plants show that recovery from stress conditions is accompanied by the disassembly of SG structures and the degradation of SG-associated proteins (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Consistent with this observation, reoxygenation of hypoxia-treated Arabidopsis CML-YFP recombineering seedlings results in a decrease in transcript levels within 2 h of reoxygenation (Fig. 9A). This is followed by a decline in CML38-YFP protein levels (Fig. 9B) and the disappearance of CML38-YFP granule structures (Fig. 9, C and D), with the western-blot protein signal and fluorescent granules no longer apparent at 6 to 7 h after reoxygenation (Fig. 9). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) ecotype Columbia-0 seeds were germinated and grown under a long-day cycle of 16 h of light (approximately 100 μmol m−2 s−1)/8 h of dark at 22°C as described previously (CITATION). For hydroponic growth, 10-d-old seedlings were transferred onto a hydroponics growth system (CITATION) and were grown under long-day conditions. Hypoxia was administered by different protocols depending on the age and culture conditions of the plants. For 12-d-old Arabidopsis seedlings grown vertically on Murashige and Skoog agar medium, stress was administered by complete submergence of seedlings with water purged with a continuous supply of nitrogen gas with a dissolved oxygen content of 2% v/v or less. For hydroponically grown Arabidopsis plants, hypoxia was administered by replacing the air supply with nitrogen gas, and time of hypoxia was initiated at 2% v/v or less oxygen. The dissolved oxygen concentration was monitored with an oxygen monitor (YSI model 55). Nicotiana benthamiana plants were grown and transformed by infiltration of leaves with Agrobacterium tumefaciens by the protocol of CITATION. Hypoxia treatment of N. benthamiana leaf sections was performed essentially as described previously (CITATION; CITATION). Briefly, a small section (1 cm × 0.5 cm) of the infiltrated leaf was cut and submerged in 200 μL of 30 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7, on a glass slide and was covered with a coverslip (CITATION). For RR treatment of hypoxic leaf sections, 100 μL of 0.1 mm RR (Sigma-Aldrich) in 30 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7, was perfused onto leaf sections under the coverslip. A similar approach was used for administering RR treatment to hypoxic CML38-YFP recombineering seedlings. Cycloheximide treatment was done as described previously (CITATION). Seedlings were either submerged in 1× Murashige and Skoog medium containing 0.4% (v/v) DMSO and 200 ng µL−1 cycloheximide or mock treated with 0.4% (v/v) DMSO for 35 min at room temperature in darkness. After treatment, seedlings were transferred to slides and were treated with 8 units mL−1 Oxyrase (Oxyrase) to induce hypoxia. Images were acquired within 10 min of slide preparation. For the generation of CML38 promoter::GUS reporter constructs, a fragment corresponding to 1,570 bp of DNA upstream of the CML38 transcriptional start site was amplified from Arabidopsis genomic DNA by PCR using gene-specific primers (PstI_CML38pro F and BamHI_CML38pro R; Supplemental Table S3). The PCR-amplified fragment was digested with PstI and BamHI and was cloned into the PstI and BamHI sites of pCAMBIA1391Z (CITATION) upstream of a promoterless GUS reporter gene. A. tumefaciens strain GV3101 (CITATION) was transformed by electroporation as described previously (CITATION). Transformants were identified by selection on Luria-Bertani agar containing 50 μg mL−1 kanamycin. Plant transformation was carried out using the floral dip method (CITATION). Recombineering lines containing CML38 fused to three copies of YFP at the C terminus (CML38-YFP) were generated as described (CITATION). The JAtY clone information and primers for CML38 (JAtY53G16) were obtained from resources available at http://www4.ncsu.edu/∼jmalonso/Alonso-Stepanova_Arabidopsis_localizome.html. TJAtY68K23 was purchased from the Genome Analysis Center (Norwich). The Escherichia coli recombineering strain SW105 was purchased from the Frederick National Laboratory for Cancer Research, and the recombineering cassette with 3xYpet was generously provided by Dr. José Alonso (North Carolina State University). The cassette was introduced to the C terminus of CML38 by PCR using Rec_F and R primers (Supplemental Table S3). The 3xYpet-tagged JAtY53G16 clone was transformed into A. tumefaciens GV3101, and transgenic recombineering strains were selected by the procedure of CITATION using the 3xYFP_SEQ primers listed in Supplemental Table S3. Growth of the recombineering transgenic plants was done by selection on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 25 µg mL−1 Basta (Chem Service; N12111). To generate the RBP47-CFP and CML38-YFP reporter constructs for expression in N. benthamiana, the open reading frame of each complementary DNA (cDNA) was PCR amplified from Arabidopsis Columbia-0 cDNA using gene-specific primers that incorporate Gateway-compatible attB1 and attB2 recombination sites in a two-step PCR process (for primers, see Supplemental Table S3) developed by Invitrogen (http://www.embl.de/pepcore/pepcore_services/cloning/cloning_methods/gateway/2step/) to generate PCR products for recombination into Gateway-compatible entry vectors (Life Technology). Donor constructs containing CML38 and RBP47 were recombined into the pEarleyGate 101 and pEarleyGate 102 destination vectors (CITATION), which incorporate a C-terminal YFP tag (CML38) or CFP tag (RBP47), respectively. These plasmids were transformed into A. tumefaciens GV3101 prior to transformation of N. benthamiana leaves by infiltration. Sequences were verified by automated DNA sequencing using a model 373 DNA sequencer (Applied Biosystems) at the University of Tennessee Molecular Biology Research Facility. The cml38 T-DNA insertion mutant (Salk_066538C) was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center and was characterized by antibiotic selection followed by PCR genotyping. Selection of cml38 seeds was done by germination and growth on one-half-strength Murashige and Skoog agar with 50 μg mL−1 kanamycin. Selection was done over several subsequent generations until homozygous plants (100% resistance) were obtained. PCR genotyping was performed with gene-specific CML38 primers and a left border T-DNA primer (Supplemental Table S3; Supplemental Fig. S5). The predicted T-DNA insertion site was verified by cloning of the T-DNA/CML38 PCR product into the pCR2.1-TOPO vector (Invitrogen) and DNA sequence analysis. For complementation, late-generation cml38 homozygous plants were transfected with the CML38-YFP construct under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter by the approach described above, and selection of transgenic plants was done on Murashige and Skoog agar medium with 30 μg mL−1 Basta. T3 lines of these transformants were used for all experiments. Sensitivity to oxygen deprivation stress was done by argon gas treatment and assay of survival as described previously (CITATION). Eight-day-old seedlings grown vertically on Murashige and Skoog agar with 3% (w/v) Suc were subjected to anaerobic conditions by perfusion with 99.99% (v/v) argon gas for 15 h at room temperature in darkness. Negative control seedlings were treated identically except that perfusion was performed with air. After treatment, the seedlings were returned to standard long-day conditions, and survival was assessed (seedlings with chlorotic shoots were scored as dead) after an additional 10 d of growth. Total RNA was isolated and Q-PCR analysis was performed as described previously (CITATION) with the gene-specific and internal control primers are described in Supplemental Table S3. The Arabidopsis UBQ10 gene was used as an internal reference for standardization, and quantitation of gene expression was calculated using the comparative threshold cycle method as described previously (CITATION). For end-point reverse transcription-PCR, 50 ng of 2-h hypoxic root cDNA from 12-d-old wild-type, CML38-1 complementation, and cml38 mutant seedlings was combined with 500 nm CML38 or ACTIN2 (internal reference) gene primer sets and 12.5 µL of the GoTaq Green Master Mix (Promega) in a final volume of 25 µL. PCR was performed using the following parameters: one cycle of 5 min at 95°C and 30 cycles of 30 s at 95°C, 30 s at 50°C, 1 min (for CML38 amplification)/2 min (ACTIN2 amplification) at 72°C, and one cycle of 7 min at 72°C for final elongation. GUS staining was performed on Arabidopsis seedlings as described by CITATION. Epifluorescence images were captured with an Axiovert 200M microscope (Zeiss) equipped with filters for YFP fluorescence (Chroma; filter set 52017) and a digital camera (Hamamatsu Orca-ER) controlled by the Openlab software (Improvision). Confocal imaging of CML38-YFP plants was performed with a Hamamatsu camera mounted on an Olympus IX83 microscope with a Visitech confocal system. YFP excitation was kept at 514 nm, and emission scans were taken using a long-pass filter (525LP). Confocal imaging and colocalization experiments in N. benthamiana leaves were performed with either a Leica SP2 or SP8 laser scanning confocal microscope using the 488-nm argon ion laser (for CFP) and 543-nm helium-neon laser (for YFP) at the Advanced Microscopy and Imaging Facility at the University of Tennessee. The emission filter was set to 470 to 500 nm for CFP, 560 to 600 nm for YFP, and 660 to 690 nm for chlorophyll autofluorescence. For image analyses and statistical evaluation, ImageJ version 1.41 software was used (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/index.html). The size distribution of CML38-YFP granules was measured by the particle-analysis tool for ImageJ. For colocalization analyses, 0.2-µm sections from the z-stack of merged RBP47-CFP and CML38-YFP images were adjusted to the same background threshold and quantified by the Just Another Colocalization Plugin (CITATION) in ImageJ. Statistical analysis was performed using the method of CITATION for cross-correlation analysis and PC determination. For western-blot analysis, plant tissue (1 g) was quick frozen in liquid nitrogen and ground in a mortar with a pestle, and proteins were extracted with 250 µL of 2× Laemmli SDS sample buffer (CITATION). Proteins were quantified by the Bradford assay, separated by SDS-PAGE on 12.5% (w/v) polyacrylamide gels, and electroblotted onto polyvinylidene fluoride membranes. Western-blot detection of fusion proteins was done as described in (CITATION) using chemiluminescent detection. A rabbit anti-GFP polyclonal antibody (a kind gift from Dr. Rose Goodchild, The University of Tennessee, Knoxville) was used as the primary antibody. Immunoprecipitation of CML38-YFP-associated proteins from plant tissue extracts was performed by using a magnetic anti-GFP resin (Chromotek). Wild-type (control) and CML38-YFP roots were dissected from 31-d-old hydroponic plant samples exposed to hypoxic conditions for 4 to 8 h and were quickly frozen in liquid nitrogen. For the GFP control, root tissues from seedlings expressing GFP under the control of the 35S promoter (CITATION) were used. For immunoprecipitation, root tissue (approximately 1 g) was ground in a mortar with a pestle, and the tissue powder was suspended in 250 μL of resuspension buffer (50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mm NaCl, 0.1 mm dithiothreitol, 0.5% [v/v] glycerol, 1 mm CaCl2, a cOmplete Roche EDTA-free protease inhibitor tablet [catalog no. 05892791001], and 40 µm MG132 [Sigma-Aldrich C2211]) and then vortexed for 30 s followed by centrifugation at 13,000 rpm at 4°C. The supernatant fraction was removed and combined with 20 μL of magnetic anti-GFP resin preequilibrated in resuspension buffer, and the mixture was incubated by mixing at 4°C for 6 h. The resin was collected and was washed with 5 mL of resuspension buffer. The adsorbed protein was collected by the addition of 100 μL of elution buffer (6 m guanidine HCl and 5 mm Tris-HCl, pH 8) followed by incubation in a boiling water bath for 5 min. The eluents were stored at −80°C until MS analysis. Prior to chromatographic separation with online MS analysis, immunoprecipitated protein samples were incubated at 60°C for 1 h in elution buffer supplemented with 5 mm dithiothreitol. Samples were diluted 6-fold with 50 mm Tris-HCl and 10 mm CaCl2, pH 7.6, and were digested at 37°C with Trypsin Gold (Promega; catalog no. PRV5111) at a final protease:protein sample ratio of 1:20 (w/w). Peptides were collected by centrifugation at 15,000 rpm through a 10-kD molecular mass cutoff spin filter (Millipore), and the filtrate was loaded directly onto a split strong cation-exchange/reverse-phase back column (Luna 5-µm SCX 100 Å and Kinetex 2.6-µm 100 Å C18 resins; Phenomenex) and then desalted prior to injection into the analytical column for tandem liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analysis. A six-step multidimensional protein identification technology (CITATION) approach was utilized for enhanced sensitivity beyond a standard reverse-phase separation. Briefly, an Ultimate U3000 HPLC workstation (Dionex) delivered increasing pulses of 500 mm ammonium acetate (three steps: 10%, 50%, and 100%; or six steps: 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 50%, and 100%) to liberate fractions of peptides bound to the cation-exchange resin for reverse-phase separation prior to entry into an LTQ-Velos mass spectrometer (Thermo Scientific). Raw files were transformed into mzXL format using MSConvert (CITATION) and searched by MyriMatch software (CITATION) against a compiled The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR) 10 database containing proteins of interest along with contaminants including trypsin. Results were visualized with IDPicker version 3.0 software (Vanderbilt University Medical Center), and to minimize false-positive identifications, results were subjected to highly stringent filtering criteria for all three biological replicates of CML38-YFP and wild-type peptide-spectrum-match filters (maximum Q value of 0.01% or 1% false discovery rate; minimum spectra per peptide, 3; minimum spectra per match, 3; maximum protein groups, 10) and protein-level filters (minimum distinct peptides, 3; minimum additional peptides, 3; minimum spectra per protein, 3). For the GFP control, the stringency levels were set as follows for peptide-spectrum-match filters (maximum Q value of 5% false discovery rate; minimum spectra per peptide, 1; minimum spectra per match, 1; maximum protein groups, 10) and protein-level filters (minimum distinct peptides, 1; minimum additional peptides, 1; minimum spectra per protein, 1). The results were exported into an Excel format, and accession numbers from the wild type and the GFP control (Supplemental Table S1) were used to remove false-positive hits from the CML38-YFP data set. The final list of CML38-YFP-interacting proteins (Supplemental Table S2) represented proteins present in at least two of the three biological replicates based on comparative analysis using VENNY version 2.0 (CITATION; Supplemental Table S2, sheet 1). The functional distribution was determined by the PANTHER classification tool version 9.0 (CITATION; Supplemental Table S2, sheet 1), which uses the TAIR 10 database (www.pantherdb.org). Identification of proteins involved in RNA processing, or which are associated with RNA nucleoprotein particles, was performed by searching individual accession numbers in the TAIR 10 database and arranging them according to their biological functions, as shown in Supplemental Table S2, sheet 2. Protein sequences for CaM1 to CaM7 and CML1 to CML50 were downloaded from TAIR (www.arabidopsis.org) using the accession numbers reported in (CITATION). The sequence for tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) rgsCaM comes from GI: 12963415 (CITATION). Multiple sequence alignments and tree construction were performed using MEGA 6.06 (CITATION). The full-length sequences for the 58 proteins were aligned using MUSCLE (CITATION) with multiple iterations performed until convergence was achieved. A maximum likelihood tree was constructed using the Jones-Taylor-Thornton model with 200 bootstrap replications. The figure of the tree was prepared using FigTree version 1.4.2 (http://tree.bio.ed.ac.uk/software/figtree/). Amino acids preceding the start site of CaM7 were identified as N-terminal extensions (Supplemental Fig. S3A), and EF hands were identified based on consensus sequences (CITATION; Supplemental Fig. S3B). Homology modeling of the calcium sensor region of CML38 was done using MOE version 2008.10 (Molecular Operating Environment) as described previously (CITATION), with the calcium-calmodulin structure (Protein Data Bank identifier 1EXR; CITATION) used as a structural template. An ensemble of 10 possible structures was generated by applying MMFF94x force field, and these models were subsequently ranked using MOE’s packing algorithm. Of the 10 possible models, the CML38 structure with the lowest root-mean-square deviation value (0.71 Å) compared with the carbon backbone of the calmodulin structural template was selected for evaluation. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under the following accession numbers: CML38, NM_001198484; UBQ10, HQ693235.1; ACTIN2, AK317305; RBP47, BT026489.1. The following supplemental materials are available. Supplemental Figure S1. Transcript expression changes of CMLs in hypoxic Arabidopsis roots. Supplemental Figure S2. CML38 is phylogenetically similar to rgsCaM. Supplemental Figure S3. Structural comparisons of the rgsCML protein subfamily. Supplemental Figure S4. Characterization of a T-DNA insertion mutant of CML38. Supplemental Figure S5. Reverse transcription-PCR analysis of the expression of CML38 transcripts in wild-type, cml38 mutant, and CML38 complementation plants. Supplemental Figure S6. Functional classification of the CML38 immunoprecipitation proteins identified from MS analysis. Supplemental Figure S7. Subcellular localization of CML38 in transfected N. benthamiana leaf epidermal cells. Supplemental Table S1. MS analysis of tryptic digests of immunoprecipitates from roots of hypoxic wild-type and CML38-YFP recombineering plants. Supplemental Table S2. Functional classification of CML38 immunoprecipitation proteins based on the PANTHER classification tool. Supplemental Table S3. Oligonucleotides used for PCR and plasmid construction.
