!~ABS~! The atypical myrosinase PENETRATION2 (PEN2) is required for broad-spectrum invasion resistance to filamentous plant pathogens. Previous localization studies suggested PEN2-GFP association with peroxisomes. Here, we show that PEN2 is a tail-anchored protein with dual-membrane targeting to peroxisomes and mitochondria and that PEN2 has the capacity to form homo-oligomer complexes. We demonstrate pathogen-induced recruitment and immobilization of mitochondrial subpopulations at sites of attempted fungal invasion and show that mitochondrial arrest is accompanied by peripheral accumulation of GFP-tagged PEN2. PEN2 substrate production by the cytochrome P450 monooxygenase CYP81F2 is localized to the surface of the endoplasmic reticulum, which focally reorganizes close to the immobilized mitochondria. Exclusive targeting of PEN2 to the outer membrane of mitochondria complements the pen2 mutant phenotype, corroborating the functional importance of the mitochondrial PEN2 protein subpool for controlled local production of PEN2 hydrolysis products at subcellular plant-microbe interaction domains. Moreover, live-cell imaging shows that mitochondria arrested at these domains exhibit a pathogen-induced redox imbalance, which may lead to the production of intracellular signals.
!~RES~! We previously showed that GFP-tagged PEN2 is associated with mobile subcellular compartments that focally accumulate at sites of attempted fungal invasion (CITATION). It is important to note that it was necessary to insert GFP between the globular enzymatic part of the protein and its C-terminal extension (PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2; Supplemental Figure 1A) to produce a functional protein with the capacity to complement the pen2 mutant phenotype (CITATION) and that we used endogenous 5′ regulatory sequences to control expression in the stable transgenic lines in our earlier work (CITATION) and throughout this study. Here, we analyzed the subcellular behavior of functional PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2 in more detail. To this end, we inoculated pen2 mutant plants expressing PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2 with Bgh conidiospores and analyzed the subcellular localization of PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2 by confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM). These analyses confirmed our earlier observations, but also revealed distinct levels of fluorescence intensity at individual plant-microbe interaction sites 20 h postinoculation (hpi) (Figure 1A). Closer examination of interaction sites at this time point showed that some sites were characterized by only a few fluorescent structures with comparatively low overall intensities of peripheral GFP fluorescence and occasional peripheral foci with elevated fluorescence intensity (Figure 1B). Other sites had high numbers of individual subcellular compartments that showed highly localized accumulation with intense overall GFP fluorescence (Figure 1C). It is important to note that powdery mildew inoculations do not result in fully synchronized conidiospore germination and cell wall penetration attempts. Thus, we hypothesized that the observed differences reflect distinct stages of attempted invasion and therefore analyzed incipient penetration sites by time-lapse CLSM. Indeed, these experiments confirmed an increase in GFP fluorescence around the tips of fungal appressoria (Figure 1D, t0 to t20). Moreover, higher magnification revealed that a subpopulation of GFP-tagged compartments become immobilized at Bgh invasion sites, whereas other compartments retained their mobility (Figure 1E; Supplemental Movie 1). The arrested compartments in particular developed peripheral patches of intense GFP fluorescence. Within 20 to 30 min, the hyperfluorescence foci expand, intensify, and ultimately decorate the entire compartment. We frequently observed disappearance of intense fluorescence at later time points (Figure 1D, t60 and t75), which may reflect a successful defense response and early termination of fungal invasion. [[FIGURE]] PEN2 orthologs tend to form homo- or hetero-oligomers and large heteromeric protein aggregates (CITATION; CITATION). Oligomerization and aggregate formation have been shown to control hydrolytic activity (CITATION; CITATION). To analyze the homomerization capacity of PEN2, we first conducted split-ubiquitin yeast two-hybrid assays (Figure 1F). These experiments demonstrated that only full-length PEN2 can homodimerize, whereas the N-terminal globular part (M1-D498) or the C-terminal extension of PEN2 (Q496-N560) alone fail to interact with full-length PEN2. To validate homomer formation of full-length PEN2 in planta, we performed blue native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis with extracts of wild-type, pen2 mutant, and PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2-producing plants that were challenged with Bgh or not. Subsequent immunoblot analyses using a PEN2-specific antibody confirmed in planta formation of PEN2 homodimers in unchallenged and challenged wild-type and PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2-producing plants (Supplemental Figure 1B). However, these experiments neither provided evidence for larger PEN2 homo-oligomers nor did they support pathogen-induced homo-oligomerization. It is important to note that the detection sensitivity may be limited when analyzing cell-autonomous pathogen-induced responses of individual Arabidopsis epidermal pavement cells in crude plant leaf extracts. To increase detection sensitivity, we immunoprecipitated PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2 protein complexes from extracts of control and Bgh-challenged plants using GFP-Trap coupled to agarose beads (Supplemental Figure 1C). Immunoblot analyses with α-PEN2 confirmed the specific pull-down of GFP fusion proteins and a pathogen-induced formation of SDS-resistant PEN2 dimers and oligomers of higher order (Figure 1G; Supplemental Figure 1D). The unique C-terminal extension of PEN2 was previously shown to be required for functionality in plant innate immunity (CITATION), suggesting that it may control enzymatic activity and/or subcellular localization. Indeed, the C terminus of PEN2 harbors a stretch of hydrophobic amino acids with a predicted α-helical structure (CITATION), which resembles classical C-terminal tail anchors (TAs). TAs are characterized by a single transmembrane domain (TMD), which functions as a posttranslational targeting sequence and mediates insertion in intracellular membranes, thereby positioning the large N-terminal protein portion toward the cytosol (CITATION). To analyze whether or not the C terminus of PEN2 has TA function, we generated transgenic pen2-1 mutant plants that express GFP fused to PEN2’s C-terminal extension (Q496-N560; GFP-TAPEN2; Supplemental Figure 1A) under control of the native PEN2 promoter sequence. CLSM revealed that GFP-TAPEN2 copied the subcellular localization pattern of full-length PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2 and tagged the periphery of subcellular membrane compartments that were either mobile or focally accumulating at plant-microbe interaction sites (Figures 2A and 2B). This supports the idea that the C terminus has TA function and is sufficient to determine the subcellular localization of the PEN2 protein. However, we were unable to detect hyperfluorescence typical for full-length PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2 decorating the immobilized organelle subpopulation at plant-microbe interaction domains. This suggests that the N-terminal globular part is required for pathogen-induced protein aggregate formation and also rules out the possibility that aggregate formation and hyperfluorescence are the result of unspecific fluorescence protein interactions. Experiments in which we stably coexpressed GFP-TAPEN2 and full-length PEN2-RFP-TAPEN2 support this conclusion, as we were able to detect a clear overall colocalization pattern of GFP and RFP signals, but only hyperfluorescent signals of RFP at sites of attempted fungal invasion (Figure 2B). To learn more about TA functionality and its contribution to subcellular protein localization behavior, we generated a series of PEN2 TA deletion constructs (Figure 2C) that we used for pen2-1 mutant complementation analyses and localization by CLSM. Constructs in which the last three C-terminal amino acids were deleted (PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2∆C3) retained full complementation capacity (Figure 2D) and showed a subcellular localization pattern that was indistinguishable from PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2 (Figure 2E). Similarly, constructs missing the last four amino acids (PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2∆C4) showed a dosage-dependent capacity to complement the compromised pathogen entry control phenotype of the pen2 mutant background (Figure 2D). However, CLSM utilizing the corresponding transgenic Arabidopsis lines suggested a comparatively lower level of fluorescence intensity associated with intracellular membrane compartments and higher fluorescence intensity in the cytosol (Figure 2E). A discrete peripheral membrane association was impossible to detect with constructs that lack the last five C-terminal amino acids (PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2∆C5) or the entire predicted C-terminal TMD (PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2∆TMD) or when the positively charged amino acid lysine (fifth from last) is exchanged with a neutral glycine residue (PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2K556G) (Figure 2E). Instead, CLSM shows diffuse distribution in the cytoplasm and, possibly, reticulate ER localization. These mistargeted proteins are not able to fully restore the compromised pathogen entry defense of pen2 mutant plants (Figure 2D), underpinning the functional importance of the membrane compartment-associated PEN2 protein subpool. [[FIGURE]] Previous experiments, in which uninfected Arabidopsis plants expressing PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2 were used for colocalization studies with transiently expressed fluorescent organelle markers, suggested that a cellular subpool of PEN2 is associated with the periphery of peroxisomes (CITATION). Here, we generated stable transgenic pen2-1 mutant lines coexpressing PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2 together with the peroxisomal matrix marker RFP-PEROXISOME TARGETING SIGNAL1 (RFP-PTS1) (CITATION). CLSM corroborated our earlier finding that PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2 is associated with the peroxisome membrane (Figure 3A). However, we did not observe stable immobilization of RFP-tagged peroxisomes at plant microbe-interaction sites or PEN2 aggregate formation in the periphery of RFP-tagged peroxisomes. Although CLSM time-lapse experiments showed transport to interaction sites, accumulation of peroxisomes was only transient (Supplemental Figures 2A and 2B). Notably, PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2 aggregate formation was restricted to other, smaller membrane compartments, which were immobilized in the immediate proximity of the tips of fungal appressoria. Similar analyses with stable transgenic pen2-1 mutant lines coexpressing PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2 and the mitochondrial matrix marker ScCOX4-RFP (Saccharomyces cerevisiae CYTOCHROME C OXIDASE IV fused to RFP) (CITATION) suggested that these organelles are mitochondria (Figure 3B). Indeed, our time-course analyses showed that PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2 also resides in the periphery of mobile mitochondria, that a subpopulation of mitochondria is focally positioned and locked at pathogen entry sites, and that PEN2 aggregate formation occurs at these arrested mitochondria (Supplemental Figures 2C and 2D). To assess mitochondrial mobility and PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2 fluorescence intensities in a quantitative manner, we systematically analyzed eight time-lapse CLSM data sets of pen2-1 mutant plants coexpressing PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2 and ScCOX4-RFP at 24 hpi with Bgh (Supplemental Figure 3 and Supplemental Movie 2). First, we generated pseudo-color-coded probability maps for the presence of individual mitochondria over the observation time using ScCOX4-RFP as a mitochondrial marker (Supplemental Figure 3A), with the rationale of low mobility to correlate with high probability of presence and vice versa. These analyses clearly indicated low mobility at the site of attempted fungal penetration (red, high probability of presence/low mobility; blue, low probability of presence/high mobility). High values around the attempted penetration site are in agreement with visually apparent immobilization of mitochondria in the corresponding video sequences (Supplemental Movie 2). In a separate approach, we measured the average probability for the presence of individual mitochondria as a function of distance from the site of attempted invasion (Supplemental Figure 3B), which confirmed high values close to the penetration site tailing off at a distance of 10 to 15 µm. We next used the same time series to quantify the average fluorescence intensities of PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2 and the mitochondrial marker ScCOX4-RFP per single mitochondrion as a function of distance to the plant-microbe interaction site (Supplemental Figure 3C). GFP fluorescence intensity per mitochondrion was consistently increased close to the penetration site in the individual time series and the corresponding average analysis (Supplemental Movie 2 and Supplemental Figure 3D). By contrast, the RFP signal was relatively constant per mitochondrion and showed no distance-related trend. Together, these quantitative data support the idea of PEN2 aggregate formation at arrested mitochondria close to sites of attempted powdery mildew invasion. Inspection of wild-type Arabidopsis-Bgh interaction sites with transmission electron microscopy supports focal accumulation of mitochondria together with ER, Golgi stacks, and secretory vesicles beneath pathogen-induced cell wall appositions (Supplemental Figure 2E). Moreover, CLSM with Bgh-challenged wild-type and pen2-1 mutant plants expressing ScCOX4-RFP alone substantiate the above findings and exclude that transgenic expression of PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2 or lack of PEN2 wild-type protein affect the subcellular behavior of mitochondria (Supplemental Figures 2F and 2G). To verify the dual organelle localization of PEN2 to the membrane of peroxisomes and the outer mitochondrial membrane (OMM), we employed a biochemical approach. To this end, we isolated peroxisomes and mitochondria from leaves of wild-type, pen2-1 mutant, and PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2-producing plants using previously published methods (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Comparative immunoblot experiments with specific antibodies for PEN2, the peroxisomal marker protein PEROXIN14 (PEX14) (CITATION) and the OMM protein VOLTAGE-DEPENDENT ANION CHANNEL1 (VDAC1) (CITATION), showed an enrichment of mitochondria and peroxisomes, respectively, and support in vivo targeting of PEN2 to the OMM and the membrane of peroxisomes (Figures 3C and 3D). [[FIGURE]] Next, we addressed the question of whether or not the mitochondrial PEN2 subpool alone is sufficient to mediate PEN2-dependent entry control. For this purpose, we looked for a plant protein TA that provides exclusive targeting to the OMM, which could be used to replace the promiscuous TA of PEN2 in transgenic complementation experiments. One TA that we considered likely to meet this criterion was the C terminus of Arabidopsis TRANSLOCASE OF OUTER MITOCHONDRIAL MEMBRANE 20-4 (TOM20-4), a subunit of the mitochondrial outer membrane import complex (CITATION). Indeed, in transgenic plants coexpressing RFP-tagged TOM20-4 (RFP-TOM20-4; Supplemental Figure 4A) and GFP/CFP-markers for either mitochondria (ScCOX4-GFP) or peroxisomes (CFP-PTS1), we detected specific labeling of mitochondria and not of peroxisomes (Supplemental Figures 4B and 4C). Moreover, when we analyzed transgenic plants coexpressing RFP-TOM20-4 and PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2 by CLSM we observed colocalization and noticed organelle accumulation and immobilization at pathogen interaction sites and peripheral PEN2 aggregate formation as before (Supplemental Figure 4D). As a next step, we made PEN2-GFP fusion constructs in which the genuine TA of PEN2 was replaced by the C-terminal TA of TOM20-4 (PEN2-GFP-TATOM20-4; Supplemental Figure 4A). CLSM analyses of Nicotiana benthamiana leaf epidermal cells transiently coexpressing either ScCOX4-RFP or RFP-PTS1 together with PEN2-GFP-TATOM20-4 confirmed specific targeting of the latter to the periphery of mitochondria (Figures 4A and 4B). Finally, we generated stably transformed pen2-1 mutant plants producing PEN2-GFP-TATOM20-4 under control of native 5′ regulatory sequences. Subsequent Bgh inoculation experiments corroborated mitochondrial recruitment to pathogen interaction sites and revealed aggregate formation of PEN2-GFP-TATOM20-4 at the periphery of immobilized mitochondria that was identical to the pattern observed for PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2 (Figures 4C and 4D). In addition, expression of PEN2-GFP-TATOM20-4 complemented the pen2 mutant phenotype in a dosage-dependent manner and had the capacity to fully restore pathogen entry control (Figures 4E and 4F). Together, our data suggest that the TA of TOM20-4 can functionally replace the genuine TA of PEN2 and that the mitochondrial PEN2 protein subpool alone is sufficient to provide PEN2-dependent penetration resistance against Bgh. We also aimed to generate analogous transgenic pen2 mutant plants producing GFP-tagged PEN2 protein that is exclusively localized tovperoxisomal membranes. To this end, we used the TAs of ASCORBATE PEROXIDASE3 (TAAPX3) or MONODEHYDROASCORBATE REDUCTASE4 (TAMDAR4), which were recently described to provide exclusive targeting to peroxisomal membranes (CITATION; CITATION). However, all transgenic lines generated with these two different TAs showed promiscuous localization to both peroxisomes and mitochondria. This precluded reciprocal experiments to analyze the contribution of the peroxisomal PEN2 protein subpool to pathogen entry control directly. [[FIGURE]] Recent work by CITATION and CITATION showed that the cytochrome P450 monooxygenase CYP81F2 is required for the pathogen-induced production of 4-substituted I3G substrates of PEN2 and subsequent resistance to powdery mildew entry. In general, metabolite production requires a highly coordinated compartmentalization of pathway enzymes in order to channel precursors to their target enzymes, optimize flux efficiency, and sequester pathway intermediates and products (CITATION). This applies particularly to the production of toxic metabolites, which are potentially harmful for the host organism, as in the case of the PEN2 pathway products (CITATION). To learn more about the subcellular site of PEN2 substrate production, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing RFP-tagged CYP81F2 under the control of endogenous promoter sequences in the cyp81f2-2 mutant background. As CYP81F2 was predicted to contain an N-terminal membrane anchor (CITATION), we decided to use a C-terminal RFP fusion construct (CYP81F2-RFP). The transgenic plants obtained show pathogen-induced expression of functional CYP81F2, as indicated by immunoblot analysis of leaf protein extracts and restoration of resistance to fungal entry (Supplemental Figures 5A to 5C). Cell-autonomous expression of CYP81F2-RFP in response to pathogen attack was confirmed by CLSM, as we observed strong RFP fluorescence only in epidermal cells that were subject to attempted fungal invasion (Figures 5A and 5B), suggesting that the enhanced CYP81F2-RFP detected in our immunoblot analysis results from a dramatic pathogen-induced production in these individual epidermal cells. In these cells, RFP fluorescence showed a reticulate distribution and focal accumulation pattern at plant-microbe interaction sites (Figure 5B), suggesting a potential association of CYP81F2 with the ER and its recruitment to the contact zone between the plant and the invader. To test this hypothesis, we generated stable transgenic cyp81f2 mutant plants coexpressing functional CYP81F2-RFP together with the ER-marker AtWAK2-CFP-HDEL (Arabidopsis WALL-ASSOCIATED KINASE2 at the N terminus and ER retention signal His-Asp-Glu-Leu at its C terminus; CITATION). CLSM experiments showed a clear colocalization (Figure 5C), supporting the idea that CYP81F2, like most other eukaryotic cytochrome P450 monooxygenases (CITATION), is N-terminally anchored in the ER membrane positioning its catalytic site facing the cytoplasm. Further CLSM analyses in which we analyzed pathogen-challenged transgenic Arabidopsis plants coexpressing CYP81F2-RFP and PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2 confirmed a network-like RFP distribution pattern coalescing into a lamellar sheath of bright RFP fluorescence at sites of attempted fungal ingress (Figure 5D). These areas of strong RFP fluorescence are in close proximity to the immobilized mitochondria that are characterized by PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2 aggregate formation (Figure 5D). [[FIGURE]] It is important to note that the dynamic cellular responses induced by microbial attack such as cytoskeletal rearrangements, motor protein-dependent organelle and vesicle transport, as well as SNARE and ABC transporter-mediated secretion are highly energy-dependent processes. Thus, it is possible that the recruitment of plant mitochondria to interaction sites with invading microbes may also supply ATP for energy-dependent transport and secretion at the plasma membrane. Moreover, as the respiratory machinery is very sensitive to changing redox conditions, mitochondria are also known to function as sensors for cellular functional imbalance (CITATION; CITATION). Thus, changes in the mitochondrial redox status can induce signaling events leading to direct effects on mitochondrial function and dynamics and to adaptations in gene expression via retrograde signaling between mitochondria and the nucleus. Recently, mitochondrial matrix-targeted redox-sensitive GFP sensors have become available for in vivo measurement of glutathione redox potential in Arabidopsis by ratiometric determination of GFP fluorescence emission captured at 500 to 540 nm after excitation at 405 versus 488 nm (CITATION; CITATION). Here, we used these sensor lines to test whether or not barley powdery mildew attack induces oxidative perturbation in epidermal mitochondria. CLSM time-lapse scans of Bgh-challenged plants expressing mt-roGFP2 confirmed the dynamic movement of mitochondria in Arabidopsis epidermal cells and the clustered immobilization of individual mitochondria at sites of attempted fungal penetration (Supplemental Movie 3; Figure 6A). Next, we determined the thiol redox status of individual mitochondria in attacked and directly adjacent epidermal cells dependent on their distance from the fungal entry site (Figures 6B and 6C) using quantitative redox imaging software recently developed by CITATION. These analyses demonstrated that mitochondria within 5 µm of the infection site show significantly increased sensor oxidation than the rest of the mitochondrial population. Interestingly, there also appears to be a trend toward slightly higher levels of oxidation in mitochondria of uninfected cells that are close to the interaction site. Together, these data corroborate the idea that pathogen attack induces the formation of distinct mitochondrial subpopulations within single epidermal cells. Moreover, the thiol redox status of individual mitochondria changes as a function of distance from the actual site of fungal invasion. Consequently, mitochondria that are subject to immobilization at sites of attempted fungal ingress are characterized by a significantly higher sensor oxidation. This reflects an imbalance in the matrix thiol-redox homeostasis as a likely consequence of localized release of oxidizing molecules such as hydrogen peroxide. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The following Arabidopsis thaliana wild-type, mutant, and transgenic lines were used in this study: Col-0, Col-3 gl1, cyp81F2-2 (CITATION), pen2-1, pen2-2, pen2-1 expressing PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2 (CITATION), AtWAK2-CFP-HDEL (CITATION), ScCOX4-GFP (CITATION), and CFP-PTS1 (CITATION). Arabidopsis, Nicotiana benthamiana, and barley (Hordeum vulgare) seeds were sown on soil (Fruhstorfer Erde Typ T 25 fein from Hawita) and grown in growth chambers at 18 to 22°C with an 8-h photoperiod (Arabidopsis) and 16-h photoperiod (N. benthamiana and barley), respectively. All constructs were cloned into the binary vector pAMPAT-MCS or the derivative pAM-MCS-NotI possessing kanamycin resistance instead of BASTA (CITATION). To create the PEN2-RFP-TAPEN2 fusion construct, GFP was replaced in the original PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2 plasmid described by CITATION by monomeric RFP using the primers listed in Supplemental Table 1. For the deletion construct lacking the globular part of PEN2, the GFP-TAPEN2 fragment was constructed by PCR amplification and integrated via restriction sites into pAMPAT-MCS. The C-terminal deletion constructs were obtained from PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2 plasmid by PCR using primers listed in Supplemental Table 1 by replacement of the original sequence with the mutated fragments via restriction and ligation. The chimeric construct PEN2-GFP-TATOM20-4 was generated by exchange of the wild-type sequence with a PCR fragment encoding the last 34 amino acids of TOM20-4. RFP-TOM20-4 was constructed by amplifying the open reading frame of TOM20-4 and integration into the plasmid pAM-MCS-NotI containing a 35S promoter and RFP. CYP81F2-RFP was constructed by amplifying CYP81F2 open reading frame from cDNA and RFP from plasmid pSAT6-DEST-RFP-N1 (GenBank: EF212309.1) and integration of a 1998-bp native promoter fragment starting immediately upstream of the ATG start codon from genomic DNA. All constructs were confirmed by sequencing and transformed by electroporation into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 (pMP90RK). The floral dip method described by CITATION was used to create stable transgenic lines. Depending on the binary vector, either the Agrobacterium strain GV3101 or GV3101 pMP90RK was used. Bacteria were grown at 28°C for 48 h in dYT medium (16 g/L tryptone, 10 g/L yeast extract, and 10 g/L NaCl) containing 50 mg/L of kanamycin, 50 mg/L of rifampicin, and, for selection of transformed GV3101 pMP90RK cells, 25 mg/L of carbenicillin. Bacterial suspensions were centrifuged for 15 min at 4000g and resuspended in dipping solution (5% sucrose and 0.05% Silwet L-77). Transgenic plant selection was either performed on half-strength MS medium (2.2 g/L Murashige and Skoog salt, 0.5 g/L MES, pH 5.7, and 14 g/L phyto agar) containing 50 mg/L of kanamycin or by spraying BASTA (Bayer CropScience) on soil-grown seedlings. Three-week-old N. benthamiana plants were used for transient expression of fluorescent protein-tagged constructs. Two-day-old Agrobacterium GV3101 suspensions with and without the helper plasmid pMP90RK were centrifuged and resuspended in infiltration medium (10 mM MgCl2, 5 mM MES, pH 5.3, and 150 µM acetosyringone). A bacterial solution at OD600 = 1.0 was infiltrated into leaf panels with a syringe. The peroxisomal and mitochondrial marker proteins were described by CITATION and were obtained from TAIR. Coinfiltration of the gene-silencing inhibitor p19 (CITATION) was done to enhance construct expression. Barley powdery mildew (Blumeria graminis f. sp hordei isolate K1) was grown on H. vulgare cv Ingrid (line I-10) for 10 to 14 d and inoculated onto 4- to 5-week-old Arabidopsis plants using a settling tower (CITATION). Quantification of fungal invasive growth was performed as described by CITATION. CLSM was conducted with a Leica DM6000B/TCS SP5 microscope (Leica Microsystems) with the following excitation wavelengths: aniline blue, 405 nm; CFP, 458 nm; GFP, 488 nm; RFP and FM4-64 (Invitrogen), 561 nm. For visualization of fungal structures, infected leaves were incubated for 30 s in FM4-64 (Invitrogen) staining solution (2 mM FM4-64 in water). Images, overlays, and z-stacks were acquired and processed using the Leica analysis software LAS AF2.2.1. Ratiometric and positional analyses of individual mitochondria were performed using custom software as described by CITATION. In brief, mitochondria were initially separated from each other into nonoverlapping domains using watershed segmentation of an inverted template image calculated from the maximum of both fluorescent channels in the case of mt-roGFP2 or just the ScCOX4-RFP channel in dual-labeling experiments with PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2. Each mitochondrion was refined using a local intensity-based threshold set at the 50% value between the local maximum in each watershed domain and the background to accommodate differing overall mitochondrial intensities. In parallel, the (nonconfocal) bright-field transmission image was processed to highlight cell boundaries and calculate the distance from the attempted penetration site. Mitochondrial distribution patterns and physiological responses were typically averaged over 2 µm concentric annuli from the penetration site. To estimate the degree of mitochondrial immobilization in the vicinity of the penetration site, the probability of finding a mitochondrion at each pixel was calculated for each pixel in each frame of a 5-min time sequence taken at 5-s intervals and presented as a pseudo-color-coded image ranging from blue (low probability) to red (high probability). A high value was taken to indicate that either a single mitochondrion was immobilized at that point, or there was a sufficiently high density of organelle traffic such that different mitochondria were detected at high frequency. For transmission electron microscopy, leaf segments were fixed with 3% glutaraldehyde (Sigma-Aldrich) in sodium cacodylate buffer (SCB), pH 7.2, for 3 h at room temperature, washed with SCB, postfixed with 1% osmium tetroxide (Carl Roth) in SCB, dehydrated in a graded ethanol series, and embedded in epoxy resin (CITATION). After polymerization, the material was sectioned with an Ultramicrotome S (Leica). Ultrathin sections (80 nm) were transferred to formvar-coated grids and poststained with uranyl acetate and lead citrate. The sections were observed with an EM 900 transmission electron microscope (Zeiss SMT) at an acceleration voltage of 80 kV. Electron micrographs were taken with a slow scan camera (Variospeed SSCCD camera SM-1k-120; TRS). Split-ubiquitin yeast two-hybrid experiments were performed as described by CITATION. For interaction screening, full-length PEN2 cDNA, the N-terminal globular part (nucleotides 1 to 1494), and C-terminal extension of PEN2 (nucleotides 1486 to 1683) were cloned into vectors carrying either Nub or Cub in the N-terminal position (Supplemental Table 1). Vectors were subsequently transformed into yeast strains THY.AP5 and THY.AP4. After interaction assays, yeast cells were selected on media lacking the amino acid adenine and histidine. Protein extractions for immunoprecipitations were performed as described by CITATION with minor modification. For precipitation, GFP-Trap coupled to agarose beads (Chromotek) was used according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Equal volumes of immunoprecipitated protein were analyzed by immunoblot analysis. Protein concentration was either measured with standard Bradford or Lowry protein assays. Samples were separated on 10% SDS-PAGE gels or on NativePAGE Novex 3-12% Bis-Tris gels (Invitrogen), blotted to a polyvinylidene fluoride membrane (Millipore), and probed with the corresponding antibody diluted in Tris-buffered saline with Tween 20 (TBST) (20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 500 mM NaCl, and 0.1% Tween 20) with 0.2% skim milk powder. PEN2 protein was detected using the polyclonal antibody α-PEN2 (CITATION) diluted 1:10,000 in TBST. GFP or RFP tag was detected with α-GFP and α-RFP monoclonal antibody diluted 1:5000 (ChromoTek), respectively. PEX14 protein was detected using the α-PEX14 polyclonal antibody (Agrisera) diluted 1:10,000. VDAC1 protein was detected using the α-VDAC1 polyclonal antibody (Agrisera) diluted 1:5000. For organelle enrichment, Arabidopsis plants were grown for 5 to 6 weeks under short-day conditions and the green parts were used for the extractions. Peroxisome-enriched extracts were obtained following the protocol described by CITATION. Mitochondria-enriched extracts were obtained following the protocols described by CITATION and CITATION. Statistics were evaluated by one-way ANOVA with Tukey’s post test. Sequence data for the genes described in this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative database under the following accession numbers: PEN2, AT2G44490; KAT1, AT5G46240; TOM20-4, AT5G40930; CYP81F2, AT5G57220. Supplemental Figure 1. PEN2 shows homomerization capacity. Supplemental Figure 2. PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2 aggregate formation is restricted to an immobilized subpopulation of mitochondria. Supplemental Figure 3. PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2 forms mitochondrial aggregates underneath attempted Bgh penetration sites that exhibit a high fluorescence intensity and reduced mobility. Supplemental Figure 4. The C-terminal anchored protein TOM20-4 is specifically localized in the outer membrane of mitochondria. Supplemental Figure 5. The CYP81F2-RFP fusion protein complements the cyp81F2 penetration phenotype. Supplemental Table 1. Oligonucleotide primers used in this study Supplemental Movie 1. Formation of PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2 aggregates at attempted fungal penetration site 20 hpi with Bgh. Supplemental Movie 2. Mitochondrial mobility and PEN2-GFP-TAPEN2 distribution underneath an attempted Bgh penetration site. Supplemental Movie 3. Mitochondria expressing roGFP2 accumulate and form immobile aggregates at attempted fungal penetration site at 1 dpi with Bgh. Supplemental Movie Legends.
