!~ABS~! The development of the root apex is determined by progress of cells from the meristematic region to the successive post-mitotic developmental zones for transition, cell elongation and final cell differentiation. We addressed root development, tissue architecture and root developmental zonation by means of light-sheet microscopic imaging of Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings expressing END BINDING protein 1c (EB1c) fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP) under control of native EB1c promoter. Unlike the other two members of the EB1 family, plant-specific EB1c shows prominent nuclear localization in non-dividing cells in all developmental zones of the root apex. The nuclear localization of EB1c was previously mentioned solely in meristematic cells, but not further addressed. With the help of advanced light-sheet microscopy, we report quantitative evaluations of developmentally-regulated nuclear levels of the EB1c protein tagged with GFP relatively to the nuclear size in diverse root tissues (epidermis, cortex, and endodermis) and root developmental zones (meristem, transition, and elongation zones). Our results demonstrate a high potential of light-sheet microscopy for 4D live imaging of fluorescently-labeled nuclei in complex samples such as developing roots, showing capacity to quantify parameters at deeper cell layers (e.g., endodermis) with minimal aberrations. The data presented herein further signify the unique role of developmental cell reprogramming in the transition from cell proliferation to cell differentiation in developing root apex.
!~RES~! We studied the in vivo subcellular nuclear localization of the EB1c protein during root development in stably transformed Arabidopsis thaliana plants. Beside the already published presence of nuclear localization sequence in EB1c protein sequence (Komaki et al., [B36]), our in silico search using NetNES 1.1 prediction server (la Cour et al., [B38]) revealed the occurrence of putative nuclear export signals at positions 213L, 215I, 217S, and 218L for EB1c (Supplementary Figure [SM1]). At the same respect, we compared the other EB1 family members in Arabidopsis, EB1a and EB1b. NES was not predicted for EB1b, while for EB1a, there is one prediction at position 193I albeit with a low score over the threshold. We prepared EB1c:GFP construct driven by its own promoter. The 663 bp long promoter sequence and the complete coding region of EB1c gene were cloned using Gateway® technology into the binary vector and subsequently transformed into A. thaliana plants (ecotype Col-0) while T2 generation of plants was used for experiments. To prove the expression of EB1c-GFP fusion protein in the plants, we performed SDS-PAGE with subsequent Western-blot analysis using seedlings expressing EB1c-GFP and Col-0 as a negative control (Figure [F1]). EB1c-GFP protein signal was clearly detected using anti-GFP antibody at the molecular mass corresponding to 64 kDa which is the predicted size of the fusion protein. As negative controls, we used extracts from untransformed wild-type plants as well as extracts from plants expressing EB1c-GFP treated only with secondary antibody (Figure [F1]). Characterization of transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana plants expressing EB1c-GFP driven by EB1c own promoter and localization of EB1c-GFP. (A) SDS-PAGE followed by western blot analysis using anti-GFP antibody from protein extract of A. thaliana T2 plants expressing EB1c-GFP (lane 1), protein extract from untransformed Col-0 plants (lane 2), and protein extract from Arabidopsis plants expressing EB1c-GFP immunoblotted only with secondary antibody (lane 3). (B) General overview of the root tip of 2-days old A. thaliana seedling expressing EB1c-GFP. Average root zonation into individual cell developmental zones consisting meristematic zone (m), transition zone (t), elongation zone (e), and differentiation zone (d) is depicted. EB1c-GFP was localized in nuclei of root cells, with particularly strong expression level in cells of the root meristematic zone. (C) Live cell imaging of seedling growing inside of the light-sheet microscope over the period of 2 h. (D) Localization of EB1c-GFP by light-sheet microscopy in cells of individual root tissue layers, in epidermis (arrow, ep), cortex (arrow, c), endodermis (arrow, en), central cylinder (arrow, cc), and lateral root cap cells (arrow, lrc). In all imaged tissues, light-sheet microscopy revealed clearly nuclear localization of EB1c-GFP in root cells. (E) Localization of EB1c-GFP by light-sheet microscopy during mitotic cell division of root cells in the meristematic zone. EB1c-GFP relocated from G2 stage nuclei to spindle in prophase (p), metaphase (m), and anaphase (a), to phragmoplast at early and late telophase (et, lt), and redistributed back to reconstructed G1 stage nuclei after cell division. Time progression of the cell division is indicated in min. Scale bar = 50 μm in (B,C) and 5 μm in (D,E). Root growth and development require passage of root cells through successive developmental zones. Large extend of this process from spatial and temporal point of view requires special microscopic applications for effective live cell imaging. Developmental light-sheet microscopy overcomes these limitations and allows real-time or time-lapse imaging of whole developing seedlings (Ovecka et al., [B44]). We performed live cell imaging with seedlings growing over a period between 2 and 5 h inside the light-sheet microscope. EB1c-GFP was localized in nuclei of all non-dividing root cells within the root apex, with particularly strong expression level in cells of the root meristematic zone (Figure [F1]). General overview of EB1c-GFP expressing roots revealed zonation of the root apex into different cell developmental zones, namely into meristematic, transition, elongation, and differentiation zones (Figure [F1]). Seedlings were prepared and cultivated in cylinders of Phytagel-solidified culture medium. During imaging over a range of several hours, seedlings exhibited undisturbed continuous root growth inside of the microscope (Figure [F1], Supplementary Movie [SM2]). Average root growth rate of 2-days old seedlings expressing EB1c-GFP in the light-sheet microscope was 1.686 (± 0.721) μm.min−1 (±SD, n = 6). Light-sheet microscopy, in addition to time-lapse imaging of the entire root development, allowed localization of EB1c-GFP at the cellular and subcellular levels. At the level of cellular resolution, this method was suitable for visualization not only surface cells and tissues of the root, like lateral root cap cells and epidermis, but further allowed visualization of individual cells from inner tissues of the Arabidopsis root including the cortex, the endodermis and the central cylinder. In all imaged tissues, light-sheet microscopy revealed clearly nuclear localization of EB1c-GFP in root cells (Figure [F1]). Subcellular resolution of the light-sheet microscopy was documented during mitotic cell division of root cells in the meristematic zone, where EB1c-GFP relocated from G2 stage nuclei to mitotic spindles and cytokinetic phragmoplasts during the respective cell division stages and finally was redistributed back to reconstituted G1 stage nuclei after completing cell division (Figure [F1]). The longitudinal developmental zonation of the root apex of plants expressing EB1c-GFP fusion protein into different developmental zones was determined in individual cell files of epidermis (Figures 2A–D, arrows in B and C denote the first cell of each consecutive zone), cortex (Figures [F2], arrows in F and G denote the first cell of each consecutive zone) and endodermis (Figures [F2], arrows in J and K denote the first cell of each consecutive zone). The cell arrangement in the meristematic zone of the epidermis was influenced by frequent cell divisions rather than by cell elongation (along longitudinal root axis). This leads to generation of tightly-packed wide but very short cells, with compressed nuclei (Figure [F2]). Very similar cell and nuclear shapes were observed within the meristematic zone in the cortex layer (Figure [F2]). In the endodermis nuclei of cells in the meristematic zone appeared smaller and due to different ratio between cell width and cell height their shape was not deformed to the same extent as in the epidermis and the cortex (c.f. Figures [F2]). With termination of the mitotic activity in the meristematic zone, cell sizes, and shapes were changing. At the end of the meristematic zone, nuclei became round and larger in all three layers (Figures [F2]). Before starting rapid cell elongation, however, there was a population of cells with short length, as indicated by short and similar distance between nuclei of individual cells (Figures [F2]). In addition, they showed reduction in the EB1c-GFP fluorescence intensity. Based on these characteristics, an onset of the transition zone placed before rapid cell elongation could be identified in each cell file of epidermis (Figure [F2]), cortex (Figure [F2]), and endodermis (Figure [F2]). Cells from the transition zone of each tissue layer entered subsequently cell elongation zone, which was indicated by further changes in the nucleus size, EB1c-GFP fluorescence intensity and apparent dilatation of distances between neighbor nuclei within the cell files (Figures [F2]). Rapid cell elongation was connected with apparent enlargement of nuclei in epidermis (Figure [F2]) and cortex (Figure [F2]), changes in nuclear shape in all three tissue layers (Figures [F2]) and further reduction in EB1c-GFP fluorescence intensity. Shoot-ward developmental zonation in the root apex of transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana plants expressing EB1c-GFP protein. Cell arrangement and position were assessed in individual cell files of epidermis (A–D), cortex (E–H) and endodermis (I–L). Typical appearance of cells in each tissue layer with nuclear localization of EB1c-GFP is shown for meristematic zone (A,E,I), at the meristem-transition zone border (B,F,J), at the transition zone-elongation zone border (C,G,K) and within the elongation zone (D,H,L). Arrows define nuclei of first cell within the transition zone (B,F,J) and first cell within the elongation zone (C,G,K). Fluorescence intensity of images is presented to the scale recorded during the acquisition of each individual cell type. Scale bar = 5 μm. To characterize the distribution of EB1c-GFP in the apex of Arabidopsis root in detail, we quantified the intensity of EB1c-GFP nuclear fluorescence in the previously defined root cell developmental zones (meristem, transition zone, elongation zone and differentiation zone). The quantitative evaluation of the EB1c-GFP protein content in interphase nuclei of root cells was performed in light-sheet images acquired in 4D modes (encompassing x, y, z, and t dimensions). In individual cell files of the epidermis, the cortex and the endodermis all interphase nuclei in order were taken into account, starting from the stem cell niche region and progressing up to cell elongation before cells reached the zone of cell differentiation (i.e., as evidenced by root hair emergence in the root epidermis). In each cell file, the meristem—to—transition zone border (Figures [F2]) and the transition zone—to—elongation zone border (Figures [F2]) were identified. Parameters for identification of particular borders and range of individual cell developmental zones included the spatial extent of the cell division, size, and fluorescence intensity reference values from nuclei of cells in G1 and G2 stages, increase in the nuclear size after termination of the cell division, and increase in the distance between nuclei of individual cells in the elongation zone. Thus, all cells in each cell file were topologically divided into meristematic zone, transition zone, and elongation zone (Figure [F1]). Values of nuclear surface area and EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity for quantitative evaluation were plotted against cell position counted from the stem cells surrounding quiescence center. Both parameters were measured and evaluated separately for the epidermis, the cortex and the endodermis. We found that in all tissues, as cells proceeded from proliferation to the differentiation, the nuclear surface area increased while fluorescence intensity of EB1c-GFP signal decreased. This trend was apparent from quantification of individual cell files of the epidermis (Figure [F3]), the cortex (Figure [F3]) and the endodermis (Figure [F3]). In the meristematic zone, actively dividing cells contained the smallest nuclei exhibiting the highest EB1c-GFP content. In the transition zone, the mean nuclear fluorescence intensity of EB1c-GFP was steeply decreased. This decline in EB1c-GFP fluorescence intensity continued in the elongation zone while the nuclear area progressively increased (Figure [F3]). Cross-correlation of nuclear EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity of some individual nuclei with their size and shape at certain position within the cell file revealed negative correlation between nuclear size and mean EB1c-GFP signal intensity in the meristematic zone (numbered insets in Figures [F3]). This negative correlation trend was stabilized in the transition zone and the elongation zone of all measured cell files in all evaluated tissue layers (Figure [F3]) as evidenced by the continuous decrease in EB1c-GFP fluorescence intensity with the progressive increase in nuclear size. Nuclear surface area and nuclear EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity distribution in root developmental zones of the root apex in individual cell files. Relationship between nuclear area (blue line) and nuclear EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity (red line) in respect to cell position counted from the stem cells surrounding quiescent center in individual cell file of epidermis (A), cortex (B), and endodermis (C). Values for nuclei in the transition zone are highlighted by yellow points, which allow distinguishing also meristematic zone (appearing before the transition zone) and elongation zone (appearing after the transition zone). Inset images over the lines show individual nuclei of cells at the actual position, documenting changes in nuclear shape, size, and mean EB1c-GFP fluorescence intensity. Major vertical axis (on the left) represents the values for the normalized mean intensity and minor vertical axis (on the right) represents values for area measurements. Horizontal axis represents the actual cell position counted from the stem cells surrounding quiescent center. Data are shown for one representative cell file from each tissue layer. Interruptions of the curve in the cortex (B) are caused by presence of dividing cells within the file. Further, we quantified collectively measured data from several individual cell files of two independent roots. Data were evaluated separately for epidermis, cortex, and endodermis. Quantitative evaluation of nuclear surface area values revealed rather stable distribution of this parameter in the meristematic zone of the epidermis. It increased slightly only in meristematic cells at gradually increasing distances from the stem cell region, surpassing slightly even the average reference value for the size of G2 nuclei (Figure [F4]). Further recognizable increase in the nucleus size took place within the transition zone, and dramatic increase in the elongation zone of epidermis (Figure [F4]). Mean fluorescence intensity of EB1c-GFP in interphase nuclei of epidermis fluctuated considerably; however, it was high in the meristematic cells. In nuclei of cells entering the transition zone mean fluorescence intensity of EB1c-GFP dropped considerably and in nuclei of elongating cells this drop in mean fluorescence intensity was dramatic, reflecting the inversely proportional increase in the nucleus size (Figure [F4]). Nuclear surface area and nuclear EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity in cells of different tissues along diverse developmental root zones. Average values of nuclear surface area (blue line) and EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity (red line) plotted against cell position counted from the stem cells surrounding quiescence center. Data from 4 individual cell files were collected and evaluated separately for epidermis (A), cortex (B), and endodermis (C) from two independent roots. The transition zone is highlighted in pink color. Dashed red lines for average mean intensity and dashed blue lines for average nuclear area of G1 and G2 nuclei are indicated as reference values. Major vertical axis (on the left) represents the values for the normalized mean intensity and minor vertical axis (on the right) represents values for area measurements. Horizontal axis represents the actual cell position counted from the stem cells surrounding quiescence center. Because number of cells in cell files is not the same, data from individual cell files in average graphs were aligned according to their meristem-to-transition zone borders. A similar tendency of stable nuclear size in the meristematic zone, a gradual increase in the transition zone and a considerable increase in the elongation zone was recorded also in cell files of the cortex layer (Figure [F4]). Nuclear size in the meristematic zone did not exceed the reference value for the size of G2 nuclei (Figure [F4]). Mean fluorescence intensity of EB1c-GFP in interphase nuclei of cortex cells was highest in the meristematic zone. However, it decreased dramatically in the transition zone, keeping further decreasing in the elongation zone as well (Figure [F4]). Size of nuclei of endodermal cells in the meristematic zone was constant, not exceeding the reference value of size measured for G2 nuclei, showing increase only after passage of meristematic cells into the transition zone. Size distribution of nuclei in the transition zone and the elongation zone of endodermis was wider as in cortex and epidermis, but the general tendency of gradual nuclear size increase from meristem through transition zone to elongation zone was maintained also in endodermis (Figure [F4]). Quantitative comparison of nuclear surface area and nuclear EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity in cell developmental zones of the root apex thus showed that the expression of EB1c-GFP decreased along the longitudinal axis of the root apex in all three measured tissue layers. Highest intensity was measured in the meristematic zone where cells are actively dividing, while in the transition zone and further in the elongation zone, expression levels of EB1c-GFP decreased inversely in relation to the nuclear area which progressively increased before entering the differentiation zone. Reference values for comparison of nuclear surface area and nuclear EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity in all types of measured cells from the root apex were recorded from typical cells of the root meristematic zone, which were present in G1 and G2 stages of mitotic cell division. For safe identification of nuclei in G1 and G2 stages, we took advantage of long-term time-lapse imaging of growing root apex in the light-sheet microscope. Using play-back function we identified and picked cells just before mitotic division and marked them as G2 cells. Daughter cells derived from mitotic division of these cells were marked as G1 cells (Figure [F1]). We compared obtained average values of G1 and G2 nuclei with average values of all measured nuclei from non-dividing cells of meristematic zone, and all cells of transition and elongation zones for nuclear surface area (Figure [F5]) and nuclear EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity (Figure [F5]). This comparison was done separately for epidermis, cortex and endodermis. Average values of nuclear surface area of meristematic cells corresponded well with reference values from G1 and G2 nuclei. Most importantly, the average size of nuclei in the meristematic zone did not exceed the size of G2 nuclei (Figure [F5]). Size of nuclei in transition zone as well as in elongation zone was significantly higher. Significant differences in size of nuclei were also observed between transition zone and elongation zone (Figures [F5]). Similarly, average values of nuclear EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity of meristematic cells corresponded well with reference values from G1 and G2 nuclei, and there were found significantly lower values of nuclear EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity in cells of transition zone and elongation zone in comparison to cells of meristematic zone and reference G1 and G2 nuclei (Figures [F5]). From these data we can conclude that both nuclear size and EB1c-GFP fluorescence intensity showed significant differences between cells of meristematic zone, transition zone and elongation zone, and supported the correct classification of cells of the root apex into three distinct developmental zones. Reference values of nuclear area and nuclear EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity in G1 and G2 stage meristematic cells as compared to post-meristematic cells. Average nuclear surface area (A) and average nuclear EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity (B) in G1 and G2 stage of cell cycle were compared with average values of the same parameters of non-dividing cells from meristem (M), transition zone (T), and elongation (E) zone in epidermis, cortex, and endodermis. Comparison of average nuclear surface area and average nuclear EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity values in individual cell developmental zones among individual tissue layers (C). Different letters represent statistical significance according to One-way ANOVA test at P < 0.05. From the data presented above it is apparent that there might be a high degree of correlation, positive or negative, between nuclear size and EB1c-GFP expression levels. We pursued this idea by quantitative correlation analysis plotting nuclear surface area, mean signal intensity (mean values per object area) and integrated signal intensity (sum values per object area) to clarify, whether the decrease of EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity during passage of root cells through cell developmental zones corresponds to the increase of nuclear surface area or not. This comparison was done separately for epidermal, cortical, and endodermal cells. In the meristematic zone, we observed the highest variability of the nuclear EB1c-GFP mean fluorescence signal intensity (Figures [F3], [F4]) and thus not surprisingly, this zone exhibited the lowest correlation between nuclear surface area and nuclear EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity (Figure [F6]). Measurements from transition zone and elongation zone were better correlated with prevalent negative values indicating that the decrease of EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity in the transition zone and the elongation zone corresponded mainly to increase of nuclear surface area and not to decline of EB1c-GFP expression levels. This suggests prior regulation of EB1c protein in the meristematic zone where cells are actively dividing. Most importantly, values from these three cell developmental zones were separated, albeit partially overlapping at their borders in the respective correlation scatter plots (Figure [F6]). This observation proves the regular passage of cells from one developmental zone to another. Similar correlation analysis between nuclear surface area and nuclear EB1c-GFP integrated signal intensity revealed again the partial separation of measurements from meristematic zone, transition zone and elongation zone in all three measured tissue layers, although lower correlation coefficients and higher variability, especially in epidermis and endodermis, were apparent (Figure [F6]). The highest intensity of EB1c-GFP fluorescence signal was measured in the meristematic zone, however, it was largely fluctuating (Figure [F4]). In accordance with this fact, the correlation between nuclear EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity and nuclear EB1c-GFP integrated signal intensity was lowest in the meristematic zone (Figure [F6]). It could reflect cell cycle-dependent regulation of EB1c in the zone of mitotically-active root cells. In the transition zone and the elongation zone expression of EB1c-GFP decreased opposite to the increased nuclear area, observation which was corroborated by the higher positive correlation coefficients for comparing nuclear EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity and nuclear EB1c-GFP integrated signal intensity (Figure [F6]). Quantitative correlation analysis of nuclear surface area, nuclear EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity, and nuclear EB1c-GFP integrated signal intensity in diverse tissues and developmental root zones. Separate graphs presenting correlation between nuclear surface area and nuclear EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity (A), nuclear surface area and nuclear EB1c-GFP integrated signal intensity (B), and nuclear EB1c-GFP mean signal intensity and nuclear EB1c-GFP integrated signal intensity (C). Data from 4 individual cell files were collected and evaluated separately for epidermis, cortex and endodermis from two independent roots. Data are plotted separately for meristem (M, blue dots), transition zone (T, red dots), and elongation zone (E, green dots). Pearson's correlation coefficients (R) are shown for each individual cell developmental zone of the root apex.
!~MM~! Genomic DNA isolated from fresh leaves of 7-days-old Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. (ecotype Columbia) seedlings was used for amplification of the complete coding region of EB1c gene together with its upstream promoter region. EB1c promoter region was identified according to previously published data (Komaki et al., [B36]) and designed using Arabidopsis Sequence Viewer (http://arabidopsis.org). The promoter sequence pEB1c was suggested to comprise of 663 base pairs upstream of the start codon of the EB1c gene. For the cloning, we used Gateway® technology. Primers were designed according to manufacturer's instructions. Whole genomic fragment was recombined into pDONR207 Gateway® vector and subsequently transferred by LR recombination reaction into the Gateway® destination vector pGWB450 designed for C-terminal GFP fusion with kanamycin resistance for plant selection. All recombinations were confirmed by sequencing. Expression vector pGWB450::pEB1c::EB1c:GFP was transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens, strain GV3101. Transformed Agrobacteria were used for several independent transformations of Arabidopsis plants (Clough and Bent, [B14]; Davis et al., [B15]). Seedlings were selected on kanamycin (50 mg/ml) selection medium to identify T1 transgenic plants. T1 transformants carrying pEB1c::EB1c:GFP constructs were checked for phenotype in comparison to control plants. No phenotypes were discerned and thus the T2 generation of Arabidopsis plants expressing pGWB450::pEB1c::EB1c:GFP was harvested and used for further experiments. Twelve-days old Arabidopsis plants expressing EB1c-GFP were analyzed on fluorescent stereomicroscope Leica MZ FLIII (Leica Microsystems, Germany) for EB1c-GFP signal. Protein extraction was carried out from roots of plants expressing EB1c-GFP and from wild type Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. (ecotype Columbia). Roots were harvested, weighted, flesh frozen and immediately ground in the liquid nitrogen. Powder was extracted in extraction buffer (1:1, w/v) (50 mM Na-HEPES pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM MgCl2.6H2O, 1 mM EGTA, 1 mM DTT, 1 mM NaF) supplemented with protease inhibitors Complete (Roche, Germany) and phosphatase inhibitors PhosStop (Roche, Germany). Crude extract was centrifuged 10 min, 8000 g at 4°C. Resulting supernatant was used for SDS-PAGE and subsequent western blot analysis. 15 μg of total protein was loaded on 8% SDS-PAGE gels followed by immunoblotting with PVDF membrane and Western blotted with antibody against GFP (anti GFP rabbit ABCAM AB290) in dilution of 1:2000. Secondary antibody (goat anti-rabbit, Santa Cruz Biotechnology) was used in dilution of 1:5000. After incubation in ECL reagents (according to manufacturer instructions), immunoreactive bands were documented using the BioRad ChemiDoc™ MP System. Seeds of Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. (ecotype Columbia) transgenic line expressing pEB1::cEB1c:GFP were surface sterilized, plated onto solidified MS medium and kept in 4°C for 4 days. After this period seeds were transferred to round 90 × 25 mm Petri dishes filled with 80 ml of ½MS medium solidified with 0.6% w/v Phytagel, and placed into small depressions facilitating gravitropic root growth inside solidified culture medium. Plates were cultivated in culture chamber horizontally for 2 days at 22°C, 50% humidity, 16/8-h light/dark cycle. After germination of seedlings when they were 1-days-old, they were enclosed by fluorinated ethylene propylene (FEP) tube with an inner diameter of 1.1 mm and wall thickness of 0.2 mm (Wolf-Technik, Germany). FEP tubes were carefully inserted into culture medium to enclose individual seedling inside. After 24 h seedlings in FEP tubes were removed from the plate, transferred to the microscope and prepared for imaging according to established protocol (Ovecka et al., [B44]). Seedlings in FEP tubes were prepared according to an “open system,” where root is growing in the original Phytagel-solidified culture medium in the lower part of FEP tube and shoot is growing in the upper aerated part of the FEP tube. This approach provides green parts of seedlings with continuous access to oxygen and allows growth and development of roots and shoots in the microscope chamber during long-term imaging experiments (Ovecka et al., [B44]). All experiments and measurements were done on 2-days old seedlings. Developmental live cell imaging was done with the light-sheet Z.1 fluorescence microscope (Carl Zeiss, Germany), equipped with W Plan-Apochromat 20 ×/1.0 NA water immersion detection objective (Carl Zeiss, Germany) and LSFM 10x/0.2 NA illumination objective (Carl Zeiss, Germany). Seedlings were imaged using dual-side illumination by a light-sheet modulated into a pivot scan mode, with excitation laser line 488 nm and with emission filter BP505-545. Image acquisition was done every 2 min in Z-stack mode for a time period of 2–5 h. Scaling of images in x, y, and z dimensions was 0.228 × 0.228 × 0.477 μm. To prevent the movement of the growing root apex out of the field of view, images were acquired in two subsequent views coordinated to each other in y coordinate. Images were recorded with the PCO.Edge sCMOS camera (PCO AG, Germany) with the exposure time 25 ms. From images of the whole root acquired using Zen 2014 software (Carl Zeiss, Germany) subsets of data were created, with defined x−, y−, and z− dimensions comprising whole volume of several nuclei from one particular cell file. Several subsets were created in order to segment nuclei of all cells of particular cell file in ordered positions from the stem cells surrounding quiescence center of the root up to visible cell differentiation at the end of elongation zone. All subsets were transformed to 2D images using Maximum intensity projection function of the Zen 2014 software. In all images uniform correction of brightness and contrast was done before they were exported for image analysis. All quantitative data were produced with publicly available software CellProfiler 2.1.1 (http://www.cellprofiler.org; Carpenter et al., [B11]; Lamprecht et al., [B39]). Nuclear area from 2D images that represent surface projection of the nuclear volume (referred herein as nuclear surface area) was measured as the actual number of pixels in the manually defined region multiplied by the pixel area. Mean intensity values were calculated as the average pixel intensity in the defined region, integrated intensity values were calculated as the total pixel intensity in the defined region. Values were subsequently normalized to a 0–1 range using the following formula: xN = (xi-xmin)/xmax-xmin (where xN = normalized intensity, xi = absolute intensity, xmin = minimum absolute intensity and xmax = maximum absolute intensity). Thus, all biological variables within measured root tips were brought into the comparable proportions and plant—to—plant differences in the expression of EB1c-GFP were compensated. Data from 4 individual cell files were collected and evaluated separately for epidermis, cortex and endodermis from two independent experiments (two independent roots). Final statistical data evaluation and plot production was done with Microsoft Excel software. Prediction of putative nuclear export sequences was performed using the NetNES 1.1 server with the accession numbers of the three Arabidopsis thaliana EB1 isoforms (EB1a, AT3G47690; EB1b, AT5G62500; and EB1c, AT5G67270) (la Cour et al., [B38]). For protein domain structure illustration, DOG 1.0 illustrator was used (Ren et al., [B48]).
