!~ABS~! The Ca2+-binding protein-1 (PCaP1) of Arabidopsis thaliana is a new type protein that binds to phosphatidylinositol phosphates and Ca2+-calmodulin complex as well as free Ca2+. Although biochemical properties, such as binding to ligands and N-myristoylation, have been revealed, the intracellular localization, tissue and cell specificity, integrity of membrane association and physiological roles of PCaP1 are unknown. We investigated the tissue and intracellular distribution of PCaP1 by using transgenic lines expressing PCaP1 linked with a green fluorescence protein (GFP) at the carboxyl terminus of PCaP1. GFP fluorescence was obviously detected in most tissues including root, stem, leaf and flower. In these tissues, PCaP1–GFP signal was observed predominantly in the plasma membrane even under physiological stress conditions but not in other organelles. The fluorescence was detected in the cytosol when the 25-residue N-terminal sequence was deleted from PCaP1 indicating essential contribution of N-myristoylation to the plasma membrane anchoring. Fluorescence intensity of PCaP1–GFP in roots was slightly decreased in seedlings grown in medium supplemented with high concentrations of iron for 1 week and increased in those grown with copper. In stomatal guard cells, PCaP1–GFP was strictly, specifically localized to the plasma membrane at the epidermal-cell side but not at the pore side. A T-DNA insertion mutant line of PCaP1 did not show marked phenotype in a life cycle except for well growth under high CO2 conditions. However, stomata of the mutant line did not close entirely even in high osmolarity, which usually induces stomata closure. These results suggest that PCaP1 is involved in the stomatal movement, especially closure process, in leaves and response to excessive copper in root and leaf as a mineral nutrient as a physiological role.
!~RES~! PCaP1 is a soluble protein and was detected in plasma membrane fraction after subcellular fractionation (Ide et al. CITATION). To investigate the intracellular localization, we prepared the PCaP1–GFP construct and expressed it in Col-0 under the control of the own promoter (PCaP1 pro::PCaP1–GFP). GFP was linked to the C-terminus of PCaP1, because the N-terminal glycine residue (Gly-2) is myristoylated after removal of the first methionine as described previously (Nagasaki et al. CITATION). Transformation of the construct was confirmed by PCR using primer sets for PCaP1 and GFP DNAs (Supplemental Fig. S1). Transgenic lines 1 and 2 shown in Fig. S1 were used for further experiments. Plants expressing PCaP1 pro::PCaP1–GFP grew normally and showed clear green fluorescence in various tissues of 5-day-old seedlings. GFP green fluorescence was observed in cotyledon epidermal cells, petioles, hypocotyls, roots, and root hairs (Fig. 1). PCaP1–GFP was detected specifically in the plasma membrane but neither in the membranes of other organelles nor the cytoplasm. PCaP1–GFP was detected uniformly in the plasma membranes in most cells but unevenly detected exceptionally in guard cells (Fig. 1b). [[FIGURE]]  Plants at the reproducible stage, 30-day-old, also showed clear fluorescence in rosette and cauline leaves, stems, petals, stomata, sepals, styles, anthers, filaments, stigma, and seedpods (Fig. 2a). Root hairs showed clear fluorescence of PCaP1–GFP in 7-day-old (Fig. 1f) and 21-day-old seedlings (Fig. 2c). Leaf trichomes also showed fluorescence (Fig. 2b). Clear fluorescence was detected predominantly in the plasma membrane. At the vegetative growth stage examined, the same images were obtained in inner cells of each tissue (data not shown). These observations indicate constitutive expression throughout the life cycle of the plant and stable association of PCaP1 with the plasma membranes and suggest that PCaP1 is a common element in various tissues. [[FIGURE]]  In the guard cells, PCaP1–GFP was clearly observed in the plasma membrane only on the outer side facing the epidermal cells, but not that of the inner side facing the pore, in the pair of guard cells (Figs. 1b, 2a). There is a possibility that guard cells do not express PCaP1 but surrounding epidermal cells do. Thus, this side-specific localization of PCaP1 was examined by quantitative analysis of the fluorescence intensity (Fig. 3). Fluorescence image of the surface area of a guard cell and its cross section image of the same cell (marked by a line from i to ii) are shown in Fig. 3a and b, respectively. Clear green fluorescence was detected in the plasma membrane of guard cell in the cross section of the stomata, which could be distinguished from that of neighbor epidermal cells (Fig. 3b). In this image the fluorescent intensity at the adjacent region was relatively high compared with other parts. Furthermore, fluorescent peaks corresponding to guard cells and epidermal cells were detected individually when analyzed for some specific region with appropriate distance between the two cells (Fig. 3c, marked by a line from iii to iv in Fig. 3a). The fluorescent intensity in the outer side of the plasma membrane, which face to the epidermal cell, was markedly higher than that of inner pore side (Fig. 3d). These results indicate that PCaP1 is localized predominantly on the outer side of the guard cell plasma membrane. [[FIGURE]]  To examine whether or not the side-specific plasma membrane localization of PCaP1 in the guard cells depends on modification with a myristoyl moiety, we introduced the modified construct without the N-terminal myristoylation site of PCaP1 (ΔN25PCaP1–GFP) into Col-0 (Fig. 4a). Three constructs, namely free GFP, PCaP1–GFP, and ΔN25PCaP1–GFP, were expressed under the control of the guard cell specific promoter GC1 (Yang et al. CITATION). Only the PCaP1–GFP construct showed the plasma membrane localization, especially in their outer side (Fig. 4b). Free GFP was detected predominantly in nuclei and the cytoplasm and ΔN25PCaP1–GFP in the cytoplasm. These observations indicate that the plasma membrane association and its side specific localization depend on the N-terminal myristoylation. [[FIGURE]]  Iron is an essential micronutrient of plants and can be toxic at excessive levels (Connlolly and Guerinot CITATION). The plants grown under normal conditions for 21 days were transplanted to the medium containing 0.5 mM FeSO4 to examine the response of PCaP1 to excessive iron, the fluorescence was enhanced after 2 h, especially in root hairs (Figs. S2a, S2b). The plasma membrane localization was not altered even after the treatment. When plants were germinated and grown under excessive iron conditions, the growth of shoots and roots was remarkably suppressed (Fig. S2c). In contrast to the short-period treatment (Figs. S2a, S2b), the fluorescence intensity was decreased to 60 % of that of control plants after 7 days under the excessive iron (Figs. S2d, S2e). Copper is also an essential micronutrient. Increase in PCaP1 transcription by excessive copper was reported previously (Ide et al. CITATION). Furthermore, PCaP1 has been reported to bind Cu2+ and change its higher order structure (Nagasaki-Takeuchi et al. CITATION). To examine effect of copper on the expression of PCaP1, seeds of plant expressing PCaP1 pro::PCaP1–GFP were germinated and grown under excessive copper conditions at 0.1 mM CuSO4. In both treatments with Cu2+, green fluorescence intensity was increased by 90 % in roots compared with roots grown under normal conditions (Fig. 5a, b). Enhancement of PCaP1 expression by excessive Cu2+ was observed in the first rosette leaf (Fig. 5c, d), which did not contact with the gel solution. This was consistent with the effect on transgenic lines expressing PCaP1 pro::GUS, which were cultivated in the presence of 0.1 mM CuSO4 for 2 weeks (Fig. S3). Plant growth was markedly suppressed, indicating that the concentration of 0.1 mM CuSO4 was toxic for plants. Enhancement of gene expression PCaP1, especially in cotyledons, leaves and stomata, by the treatment with CuSO4 was also detected (Fig. S3g, S3h, S3i). [[FIGURE]]  Flagellin oligopeptide 22 (flg22) has been used as a trigger of pathological reaction in plants (Zipfel et al. CITATION). Generally, tissues respond to a pathological elicitor within a few minutes and the transcriptional levels of the related genes for defense are raised within 1 h (Navarro et al. CITATION). We treated rosette leaves of 21-day-old plants with 10 μM flg22 and monitored fluorescent image of the leaf epidermal tissue at 5, 10, 20, and 30 min after the start of treatment. No marked difference in fluorescent intensity and intracellular localization of PCaP1–GFP was detected (Fig. S4). These results show that flg22 does not induce PCaP1 within 30 min. Marked enhancement of expression (Fig. S3) and accumulation of PCaP1 protein (Fig. 5) by excessive copper led us to examine the physiological effect of the loss of PCaP1 on copper tolerance. We prepared homozygous T-DNA-inserted loss-of-function mutants of PCaP1, pcap1-1 (SALK_022955) and pcap1-4 (SAIL_241_A08), in which T-DNA was inserted into the third intron and the fourth exon, respectively (Fig. S5a). Neither mRNA (data not shown) or protein (Fig. S5b) of PCaP1 was detected in these mutants. Under excessive copper conditions, growth of Col-0 was suppressed 50 % (Fig. 6). The pcap1-1 mutant was highly sensitive to excessive copper compared with Col-0 (Fig. 6e, f). This result suggests the involvement of PCaP1 in tolerance to excessive copper. [[FIGURE]]  Side-specific localization in the plasma membrane of guard cells (Fig. 3) led us to examine physiological role of PCaP1 in stomatal movement. Stomatal aperture was examined under normal conditions in light using epidermal strips from leaves of Col-0, pcap1-1, and pcap1-4. Stomata in all leaves from wild type and mutant plants fully opened in 200 mOsm sorbitol buffer after the exposure to 2 h light (Fig. S6). No difference in the width-length ratio of stomata was observed between Col-0 and the mutants (Fig. 7). The width-length ratio obtained in this study was normal and consistent with values reported for A. thaliana previously (De Angeli et al. CITATION). In general, stomata close when treated with high concentration solutions even under light conditions (De Angeli et al. CITATION). Therefore, we performed a stomata closing assay on epidermal strips from two independent pcap1 lines. In the assay medium was changed the medium from 200 mOsm buffer to 600 mOsm buffer, stomata in Col-0 leaves clearly closed (Fig. 7). However, stomata in the pcap1-1 and pcap1-4 mutant did not close completely. The width-length ratios of pcap1-1 and pcap1-4 were 34 and 30 % higher than that of Col-0, respectively, indicating dysfunction of these mutants in stomata closure. The guard cells of the mutants were not damaged because the ratio was completely recovered to the open state when the assay buffer was changed to the normal 200 mOsm buffer. The present data indicate that PCaP1 is involved in the stomata closing process in response to high osmolarity. [[FIGURE]]  Stomatal aperture is regulated by various environmental factors, such as humidity, temperature, light, water state of leaf, and abscisic acid through calcium signaling (Allen et al. CITATION; Kim et al. CITATION). Under osmotic stresses, malate metabolism and malate transporters, such as SLAC1 and AtABCB14, have been shown to play an important role in stomatal response to physiological stimuli (Asai et al. CITATION; Saji et al. CITATION; Lee et al. CITATION; Negi et al. CITATION; Vahisalu et al. CITATION; Medeiros et al. CITATION). Furthermore, a high atmospheric CO2 condition is known to close the leaf stomata (Brearley et al. CITATION; Hanstein and Felle CITATION; Kim et al. CITATION). We compared the growth of Col-0 with that of pcap1 mutant under normal and high CO2 conditions. Growth of pcap1 mutant was approximately 19 % better than that of Col-0 on day 10 under normal CO2 conditions (380 ppm) (Fig. 8). High CO2 conditions (700 ppm) stimulated growth of both Col-0 and pcap1. Shoot fresh weight of pcap1 was 21 % greater than that of Col-0 on day 14. [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! Seeds of A. thaliana Columbia-0 (Col-0) were sown on sterile gel plates containing Murashige–Skoog (MS) salt, 2.3 mM MES–KOH (pH 5.7), 2 % (w/v) sucrose and 0.8 % Ina agar (Funakoshi, Tokyo, Japan) and kept at 22 °C under long-day conditions (a light/dark regime of 16 h/8 h, cool-white lamps, 90 μmol m−2 s−1) to germinate. In some experiments, seeds were sown on 1.5 % agar plate, which were placed vertically. The effects of ions, metals and phytohormones were examined on sterile agar gel plates containing 0.5 MS (one-half strength of MS salts) supplemented with 2 % sucrose. T-DNA insertion lines of PCaP1 (pcap1-1, registration no. SALK_022955; pcap1-4, registration no. SAIL_241_A08) of A. thaliana (Col-0) were obtained from The Salk Institute Genomic Analysis Laboratory (http://signal.salk.edu/index.html) and the Syngenta Arabidopsis Insertion Library (Sessions et al. CITATION). Information concerning the insertion mutants was obtained from the Salk Institute Genomic Analysis Laboratory website (http://signal.salk.edu). Homozygous transgenic lines were selected by PCR after the second back cross and the T-DNA insertion sites were confirmed. In some experiments, Col-0 and mutant lines were cultivated in growth chambers, which had CO2 concentrations controlled at 380 or 700 ppm. Transgenic plants expressing a PCaP1 pro::PCaP1–GFP construct were prepared as follows. A DNA segment of the PCaP1 promoter followed by the open reading frame (ORF) of PCaP1 was amplified from an A. thaliana genomic DNA preparation by PCR using a primer set: forward, 5′-CACCATGGGTTACTGGAATTCCAAG-3′ (forward) and 5′-AGGCTTTGGTGGTTCAGCC-3′ (reverse). The obtained fragments were inserted into pENTR/D-TOPO and then sub-cloned into the pGWB404 vector (Nakagawa et al. CITATION), which contained a synthetic GFP whose Ser-65 was substituted with threonine. The resulting plasmid was termed PCaP1 pro::PCaP1–GFP. In some experiments, PCaP1–GFP and its modified variant were expressed under the control of promoter of guard cell-specific gene GC1 (At1g22690) (Yang et al. CITATION). For preparation of ΔN25PCaP1, which lacks the N-terminal region (2nd to 25th residues), the ORF of PCaP1 was amplified from the genomic DNA preparation by PCR using a primer set: 5′-CACCTCTCTAGAAGCTGCTGAAGCTACCAAG-3′ (forward) and 5′-AGGCTTTGGTGGTTCAG-3′ (reverse). The obtained fragment was sub-cloned into the pGWB404 vector to prepare the DNA fragment ΔN25PCaP1–GFP. The DNA fragment was then inserted into the down-stream of GC1 pro of Agrobacterium binary vector pPZP211. The plasmid obtained was named GC1 pro::ΔN25PCaP1–GFP.   Arabidopsis thaliana Col-0 plants were transformed by the floral dip method using Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58C1 carrying the PCaP1 pro::PCaP1–GFP binary vector (Clough and Bent CITATION). PCaP1–GFP transformants were grown on half strength MS-agarose plates containing 50 μg ml−1 kanamycin. T1 transformants were selected by GFP fluorescence. The obtained T2 plants were used for fluorescence observation by confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM). Histochemical assay of PCaP1 promoter-GUS gene expression Plants expressing PCaP1 promoter-GUS gene were prepared as described previously (Ide et al. CITATION). An upstream region that contained a 5′-noncoding region of 2,025 bp and a 18-bp section of the coding region of PCaP1 was amplified from genomic DNA by PCR and was ligated into the binary vector pGWB203 (Nakagawa et al. CITATION), which contains the DNA sequence for β-glucuronidase (GUS). The chimeric constructs were introduced into the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain pMP90 (C58C1) by electroporation and used to transform A. thaliana plants. Transformants were selected on plates containing 40 μg ml−1 Benlate (Sumitomo Chemical, Osaka, Japan), 0.20 mg ml−1 Cefotax (Chugai Pharmaceutical, Tokyo, Japan), 50 μg ml−1 hygromycin, and 30 μg ml−1 kanamycin. T2 transformants were grown on the medium containing MS salt, 2.3 mM MES–KOH (pH 5.7), 2 % (w/v) sucrose and 0.25 % Gellan gum (Wako Pure Chemicals, Osaka, Japan) and then assayed for GUS activity. GUS activity was visualized by treatment of whole seedlings with 90 % (v/v) acetone for 30 min at −4 °C. After washing with 100 mM sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.0), the samples were infiltrated with a solution containing 100 mM sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.0), 0.5 mM K3Fe(CN)6, 0.5 mM K4Fe(CN)6, 10 mM EDTA, 2 mM 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-D-glucuronide, 20 % (v/v) methanol and 0.1 % (w/v) Triton X-100 under vacuum for 30 min, and then incubated at 37 °C until blue histochemical stain was confirmed. The regular incubation period was 12 h. Observations were conducted with an upright FV1000/BX61 confocal laser scanning microscope (Olympus, Tokyo, Japan) using a set of BA465–495 (excitation) and BA505–550 (emission) filters. For imaging the plasma membrane, tissues were treated with 10 μg ml−1 propidium iodide (Sigma Aldrich, Steinheim, Germany) for staining of cell walls. Propidium iodide red fluorescence was visualized with a FV1000/BX61 confocal laser scanning microscope set at 561 nm for excitation and at 550–650 nm for emission. The intensities of green fluorescence were extracted from CLSM images using FX10-ASW (http://www.aswsoftware.com/). Stomatal aperture of wild-type (Col-0), pcap1-1 and pcap1-4 plants was assayed using leaves of 3-week-old plants grown on agar plates as described previously (De Angeli et al. CITATION). The whole leaves were detached just before the light period started and glued the abaxial side onto a coverslip using a non-toxic medical adhesive (Medical Adhesive B Liquid, VM 355-1, Ulrich, Swiss). The adaxial epidermis and mesophyll layers were gently removed. The coverslips with the glued abaxial epidermis were placed in a Petri dish containing a 200 mOsm buffer (stomata-opening buffer). The 200 mOsm buffer contained 10 mM MES–KOH, pH 6.1, 30 mM KCl and 100 mM sorbitol. A 600 mOsm buffer contained 10 mM MES–KOH, pH 6.1, 30 mM KCl and 500 mM sorbitol. The epidermis was equilibrated for 2 h in light in the 200 mOsm buffer and measured for stomatal aperture (the first assay). Then the assay buffer was changed to the 600 mOsm buffer. Finally, the buffer for the same epidermis was changed to the 200 mOsm buffer (the second assay) to confirm the reversibility of stomata movement. Five leaves from Col-0, pcap1-1 and pcap1-4 were analyzed in parallel. About 3 pictures per leaf and per time point were taken using an inverted microscope (BX51/DP72, Olympus) at a ×40 magnification. Each picture contains approximately 20 stomata. Stomatal apertures (ratio of the width to the length of stomata) were measured manually using the ImageJ software (Schneider et al. CITATION). For each time point, more than 300 stomatal apertures were measured.
