!~ABS~! Ethylene as a gaseous plant hormone is directly involved in various processes during plant growth and development. Much is known regarding the ethylene receptors and regulatory factors in the ethylene signal transduction pathway. In Arabidopsis thaliana, REVERSION-TO-ETHYLENE SENSITIVITY1 (RTE1) can interact with and positively regulates the ethylene receptor ETHYLENE RESPONSE1 (ETR1). In this study we report the identification and characterization of an RTE1-interacting protein, a putative Arabidopsis lipid transfer protein 1 (LTP1) of unknown function. Through bimolecular fluorescence complementation, a direct molecular interaction between LTP1 and RTE1 was verified in planta. Analysis of an LTP1-GFP fusion in transgenic plants and plasmolysis experiments revealed that LTP1 is localized to the cytoplasm. Analysis of ethylene responses showed that the ltp1 knockout is hypersensitive to 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACC), while LTP1 overexpression confers insensitivity. Analysis of double mutants etr1-2 ltp1 and rte1-3 ltp1 demonstrates a regulatory function of LTP1 in ethylene receptor signaling through the molecular association with RTE1. This study uncovers a novel function of Arabidopsis LTP1 in the regulation of ethylene response and signaling.
!~RES~! Arabidopsis RTE1 can specifically regulate ETR1-mediated ethylene signaling (Resnick et al. CITATION; Rivarola et al. CITATION) through physical interaction with ETR1 receptor (Dong et al. CITATION). In order to identify RTE1-interacting proteins, we carried out a yeast two-hybrid screen of an Arabidopsis cDNA library, using the full-length RTE1 coding sequence as bait. The screen was based on reconstitution of ubiquitin (Ub) protein halves (Cub and Nub) in a split ubiquitin system (Staqljar et al. CITATION). The RTE1 bait fusion was localized primarily to the yeast ER membrane with the C-terminus localized in the yeast cytoplasm (Chang et al. CITATION). As described previously, several positives were isolated from a total of 3.2 × 105 colonies screened, and one clone encoded the C-terminus of cytochrome b5 (Cb5) isoform D (AtCb5-D) (Chang et al. CITATION). One of the other positive clones encoded the full-length Arabidopsis LTP1 protein (At1g48750). The interaction of RTE1 with LTP1 was retested in the split-ubiquitin assay, and positive reactions are shown in Fig. 1a. As a control, LTP1 also interacts with RTH, the RTE1 homolog in Arabidopsis (Resnick et al. CITATION). In contrast, no interaction was detected between LTP1 and the ETR1 receptor. In addition, we examined the interaction between full length RTE1 and different portions of LTP1 (1–162, 163–285, and 82–285 residues), and the experiments indicate that the C-terminus of LTP1 (163–285 or 82–285 residues) is required for the protein interaction, while the LTP1 N-terminus (1–162 residues) is not essential for the interaction (Fig. 1b). [[FIGURE]]  To further verify the molecular interaction between RTE1 and LTP1, we used the bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assay. The coding sequences of the YFP halves, nYFP and cYFP, were fused in frame to the full-length coding sequences of the RTE1 N-terminus and the LTP1 C-terminus, respectively. Under a laser scanning confocal microscope, a fluorescent signal from the reconstitution of nYFP-RTE1 and LTP1-cYFP was observed (Fig. 1c–e). In the absence of either nYFP-RTE1 or LTP1-cYFP, no fluorescence was observed. The interaction between LTP1-cYFP and ETR1-nYFP fusions were also examined by the BiFC assay, but no signal was detected, consistent with that observed in the yeast split ubiquitin assay. We next examined if the expression of Arabidopsis LTP1 is induced by ethylene. Total mRNA from seedlings treated with or without the ethylene precursor, ACC, was used for the analysis of LTP1 transcript levels. Analysis by semi-quantitative and quantitative RT-PCR showed that Arabidopsis LTP1 is slightly induced by ACC treatment (Fig. 2a, b). [[FIGURE]]  We also analyzed the tissue-specific expression of Arabidopsis LTP1 in the ltp1 enhancer trap line with GUS reporter in its promoter (GT22433, genetrap.cshl.org) (Fig. 2c–h). In the early stages of seed germination and seedling growth, the reporter GUS signal was not detected. After 4 days of seedling growth, strong expression of LTP1 was mainly detected in the roots. In the mature plants, the GUS signal was detected in the leaf petiole, veins, and the young flower carpels (Fig. 2d–g). ACC treatment did not detectably enhance GUS staining in the seedlings. Lipid transfer proteins are assumed to be involved in membrane biogenesis by mediating the transport of lipids from their sites of biosynthesis, typically the ER, to other membranes (Kader CITATION; Sossountzov et al. CITATION). Transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing 35S::LTP1-GFP were obtained and used for protein localization of LTP1 in planta. Various tissues from 5-day-old seedlings of LTP1-GFP transgenic plants were examined under a laser scanning confocal microscope. Figure 3a shows the representative images of fluorescent proteins distributed in the cytoplasm of root tissues. When the transgenic plants were treated with 30 % sucrose solution, the green fluorescence signal was detected in the condensed cytoplasm because of the high osmotic environment (Fig. 3b). This observation indicates that Arabidopsis LTP1 might not be an extracellular secreted protein. [[FIGURE]]  To examine the regulatory function of Arabidopsis LTP1 in ethylene response and signaling, the ltp1 loss-of-function mutant (GT22433) was obtained from Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, and LTP1-overexpression transgenic Arabidopsis plants were generated in this study. We examined LTP1 transcript levels in the ltp1 and LTP1-overexpressing lines. No transcript of LTP1 was detected in the ltp1 mutant. In contrast, high levels of LTP1 transcripts were detected in LTP1-overexpressing lines compared to the wild type (Fig. 4a). [[FIGURE]]  Ethylene responses of the ltp1 and LTP1-overexpression lines were analyzed at the seedling stage after germination in the dark on medium containing ACC at different concentrations (0, 0.5, 5, 10, 20, 100 µM). Figure 4b shows the “triple response” phenotype of 4-day-old dark-grown ltp1 or LTP1-overexpressing seedlings, using wild type (Ler or Col) as controls. Interestingly, the hypocotyl lengths of ltp1 were shorter than those of wild-type (Ler) seedlings, especially at high concentrations of ACC (Fig. 4c), suggesting that the ltp1 mutant displays enhanced ethylene sensitivity. In contrast, LTP1-overexpression enhanced the hypocotyl lengths at low concentrations of ACC, especially at 0.5 µM (Fig. 4d), suggesting that overexpression of LTP1 decreases ethylene sensitivity. We additionally examined the expression of ethylene-response factor (ERF) genes, which are downstream components in the ethylene signaling pathway. Three ERF genes (AtERF1, 2, 9) were chosen for quantitative RT-PCR analysis in the ltp1 and LTP1-overexpression lines. In the ltp1 mutant, the relative expression patterns of AtERF1 and AtERF9 are quite similar (Fig. 5a, c). When treated with ACC at 5 µM, the relative expression of AtERF1 and AtERF9 were significantly higher than the wild type (Ler), while AtERF2’s expression was less changed in the ltp1 (Fig. 5b). In contrast, all the examined ERF genes (AtERF1, 2, 9) showed decreased expression levels compared to the wild type (Col) in LTP1-overexpression lines when treated with ACC at a low concentration (5 µM) (Fig. 5d–f). The higher concentration of ACC (100 µM) induced higher expression levels of the ERFs (Fig. 5d–f). [[FIGURE]]  The altered ethylene responses in the ltp1 and LTP1-overexpressing plants and the molecular association of LTP1 and RTE1 proteins prompted us to examine the genetic interaction between LTP1 and RTE1. We genetically crossed ltp1 to the rte1-3 and etr1-2 mutants. The etr1-2 mutant is a gain-of-function mutation that confers ethylene insensitivity (Hall et al. CITATION). The progeny from the crosses were obtained and the double mutants of rte1-3 ltp1 and etr1-2 ltp1 were identified based on kanamycin resistance of the ltp1 and CAPS/dCAPS markers for the rte1-3 and etr1-2 mutations. As a wild-type control (marked WT in the figures), a hybrid between Ler and Col-0 was created, since the ltp1 was in the Ler background, while the mutant rte1-3 and etr1-2 are in the Col-0 ecotype. Seedling phenotype analysis showed that the rte1-3 ltp1 phenotype closely resembles that of rte1-3, being hypersensitive to ethylene when treated with ACC (Fig. 6a). Measurement of hypocotyl lengths revealed that an increase of ACC concentration up to 20 or 100 µM caused the hypocotyls from both rte1-3 and rte1-3 ltp1 to become much shorter than those of ltp1 or WT (Fig. 6c). In contrast, the phenotype of etr1-2 ltp1 etiolated seedlings appeared ethylene insensitive compared to WT or ltp1 mutant (Fig. 6b). The observation of decreased hypocotyl length in etr1-2 ltp1 compared to etr1-2 under different concentrations of ACC (0, 0.5, 5, 10, 20, 100 µM) suggests that ltp1 mutation might partially restore the ethylene sensitivity of etr1-2 (Fig. 6d). [[FIGURE]]  Lowered chlorophyll levels are known to reflect the ethylene sensitivity of plants (Bleecker et al. CITATION; Chang et al. CITATION). The total chlorophyll content in WT, ltp1, etr1-2, etr1-2 ltp1, rte1-3 and rte1-3 ltp1 was measured and compared (Fig. 6e). As expected, the total chlorophyll content in rte1-3 ltp1 plants was close to that in the rte1-3 mutant, while the levels of total chlorophyll in etr1-2 ltp1 were slightly changed compared to that in etr1-2. Finally, using quantitative RT-PCR analysis, the relative expression of AtERF1, AtERF2 and AtERF9 were examined in the plants (Fig. 7). In the absence of ACC, the gene expression levels of AtERF1 (Fig. 7a) and AtERF2 (Fig. 7b) in mutant ltp1, rte1-3 or rte1-3 ltp1 were higher than those in WT, suggesting that both LTP1 and RTE1 have a negative effect on downstream ERF gene expression. It is interesting that this effect does not apply to AtERF9. In addition, it was found that application of ACC (5 and 100 µM) decreased the expression of AtERF1 and AtERF2 in both rte1-3 and rte1-3 ltp1 but not in ltp1, indicating that knockout of RTE1 decreases the ethylene-induced gene expression of the ERF genes and that LTP1 depends on RTE1 in downstream gene expression. Although the expression of AtERF9 is slightly different from that of AtERF1 and AtERF2 (Fig. 7c), with low levels in the absence of ACC but increased levels when ACC was applied in the plants, the transcript level of AtERF9 in rte1-3 ltp1 was close to that in the rte1-3 mutant (Fig. 7c). [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! A T-DNA insertion mutant ltp1 with a GUS reporter by enhancer trap in its promoter in Arabidopssi ecotype Landsberg erecta (Ler) was obtained from the Martienssen lab of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory (GT22433, genetrap.cshl.org). Plants were grown in 1/2 MS (Murashige and Skoog) medium or soil under 16 h light/8 h dark in a controlled growth chamber or a growth room at 22 °C under white fluorescent light. For GUS staining, the fresh samples of the ltp1 with GUS reporter at different stages were collected and subsequently submerged in a GUS staining buffer (1 M NaH2PO4 (pH7.0), 0.25 M Na2HPO4, 0.1 M K4[Fe(CN)6], 0.1 M K3[Fe(CN)6], 0.1 % Triton X-100, 0.25 M Na2·EDTA, 10 mg/mL glucuronide) at 37 °C for 10 h. The staining solution was removed and replaced with 75 % alcohol to wash off excess stain (Jefferson et al. CITATION; Cecchetti et al. CITATION). For the ethylene response assay, Arabidopsis seeds were surface sterilized, sowed on 1/2 MS medium containing ACC at different concentrations (0, 0.5, 5, 10, 20, 100 µM). After stratification at 4 °C for 3 days, the plates were moved to a growth chamber for 8 h under white light. Thereafter, the plates were wrapped with aluminum foil and placed in a growth chamber for the indicated time periods (Resnick et al. CITATION). Image J 1.48u software (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/) was used to measure seedling hypocotyl length. Statistical analyses were performed by one-way ANOVA with a 95 or 99 % confidence interval in conjunction with Tukey’s test using SPSS 32 software for significant difference. The fusion for LTP1-GFP was constructed by the Gateway cloning system (Invitrogen). In brief, the LTP1 coding sequence without a stop codon was PCR-amplified and cloned into pDONR221. After verification by nucleotide sequencing, the LTP1 fragment was transferred into the binary vector pEarleyGate103 (Invitrogen) for Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation (Clough and Bent CITATION). After selection by BASTA, homozygous lines of transgenic plants from the T3 generation were obtained. After germination on 1/2 MS medium for 5 days, the samples were examined for a fluorescence signal under a laser scanning confocal microscopy (Leica TCS SP5). To separate the cytoplasm from cell walls, the tissue samples were treated with a 30 % sucrose solution for a few minutes before examination via the laser scanning confocal microscope. For split ubiquitin assay, the full-length coding sequences of Arabidopsis RTE1, RTH, LTP1 and ETR1, and the portions of LTP1 (1–162; 163–285; and 82–285), were each PCR-amplified from existing templates or a cDNA library (Resnick et al. CITATION; Dong et al. CITATION), cloned into pDONR221 (Invitrogen) and then transferred into bait or prey vector after verification by sequencing of the inserts. The split ubiquitin assay was as previously described (Chang et al. CITATION). To construct fusions of nYFP-RTE1 and LTP1-cYFP, the coding sequences of nYFP (1–465 aa) and RTE1 were each PCR-amplified from existing templates as previously described (Dong et al. CITATION), and cloned into the pMD18-T vector. After verification of insert sequences, these two fragments were cloned into a binary vector pCambia1300-3HA through restriction sites (Xba I and Kpn I for nYFP; Kpn I and BamH I for RTE1). As N-terminus of Arabidopsis LTP1 might contain a transmembrane domain, the cYFP (466–717 aa) was cloned at the C-terminus of LTP1 in pCambia1300-3HA via restriction sites (Xba I and Kpn I for LTP1; Kpn I and BamH I for cYFP). After nucleotide sequencing verification, the constructs were transformed into Agrobacterium (strain GV3101), and used to infect the onion epidermal cells (Xu et al. CITATION), tobacco leaf epidermal cells, or Arabidopsis seedling root cells. Fluorescent signal from the transfected cells was examined under a fluorescence microscopy (Nikon ECLIPSE Ti-S, Japan) or a laser scanning confocal microscopy (Leica TCS SP5). Vector construction for LTP1 overexpression was performed by using Gateway cloning system (Invitrogen). The full-length of LTP1 coding sequence was PCR-amplified from Arabidopsis cDNA, and resulting product was cloned into pMD18-T. After verification by nucleotide sequencing, LTP1 was transformed into vector pDONR221 and then transferred into vector pEarleyGate103. Agrobacterium-mediated Arabidopsis inflorescence infection was performed as described previously (Clough and Bent CITATION; Dong et al. CITATION). Transformed Arabidopsis plants in the Columbia ecotype (Col-0) were selected by BASTA, and the homozygous transgenic lines from T3 generation were used for gene expression analysis and phenotype characterization. Genetic crosses were performed between mutant ltp1 and etr1-2 or rte1-3, and F1 seeds were obtained. After F1 self-fertilization, F2 populations were collected. Due to the kanamycin resistance of ltp1 mutant, the plants were selected on the medium supplemented with kanamycin (50 mg/L) at first, and the plants containing ltp1 were then used to examine for etr1-2 or rte1-3 mutation using CAPS/dCAPS markers (Lukowitz et al. CITATION) with verification by PCR product sequencing for etr1-2 (Zhao et al. CITATION) and rte1-3 (Resnick et al. CITATION), respectively. The homozygous lines for both etr1-2 ltp1 and rte1-3 ltp1 were obtained and used for further study. Total of 300 mg fresh foliar tissue was ground in liquid nitrogen with 5 mL of 80 % acetone, and the mixture was extracted after centrifugation at 4000 rpm for 10 min. The extracts were analyzed by spectrophotometry using a TU-1810 spectrophotometer (http://ibook.antpedia.com/655/, Beijing). The absorbance reads were obtained at 663 nm for chlorophyll a and 645 nm for chlorophyll b (Chang et al. CITATION; Monterumici et al. CITATION). The concentrations of chlorophyll a and b (mg/g) were calculated by the following formula: Chlorophyll a = [(12.7 × A663 − 2.59 × A645) × V]/W, Chlorophyll b = [(22.9 × A645 − 4.67 × A663) × V]/W, where V = volume of the extract (l) and W = weight of fresh leaves (g). Total RNA was extracted from light-grown seedlings according to RNAprep Pure Plant kit (TIANGEN Biotech (Beijing) Co., Ltd). cDNA was synthesized with oligo(dT) primers using PrimeScript™ 1st strand cDNA synthesis kit (Takara Bio Inc, Otsu, Japan). Semi-quantitative RT-PCR was conducted using Actin2 as an internal control. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis was performed on an Agilent Real-Time qPCR apparatus (Mx3000P system) using SYBR Premix ExTaq™ II (Takara Bio Inc, Otsu, Japan). Biological replicates for each set of experiments were carried out three times, and the mean value of three replicates was normalized using Tubulin8 as an internal control. Quantitative PCR was conducted at 95 °C for 10 min, followed by 40 cycles at 95 °C for 30 s, 55 °C for 30 s, and 72 °C for 20 s. The primers used are listed in Table 1.[[TABLE]]  [[TABLE]]
