!~ABS~! In eukaryotes, histone acetyltransferases regulate the acetylation of histones and transcription factors, affecting chromatin structural organization, transcriptional regulation, and gene activation. To assess the role of HAC1, a gene encoding for a histone acetyltransferase in Medicago truncatula, stable transgenic lines with modified HAC1 expression in the model plants M. truncatula, Lotus japonicus, and Arabidopsis thaliana were generated by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation and used for functional analyses. Histochemical, transcriptional, flow cytometric, and morphological analyses demonstrated the involvement of HAC1 in plant growth and development, responses to internal stimuli, and cell cycle progression. Expression patterns of a reporter gene encoding beta-glucuronidase (GUS) fused to the HAC1 promoter sequence were associated with young tissues comprised of actively dividing cells in different plant organs. The green fluorescent protein (GFP) signal, driven by the HAC1 promoter, was detected in the nuclei and cytoplasm of root cells. Transgenic lines with HAC1 overexpression and knockdown showed a wide range of phenotypic deviations and developmental abnormalities, which provided lines of evidence for the role of HAC1 in plant development. Synchronization of A. thaliana root tips in a line with HAC1 knockdown showed the involvement of this gene in the acetylation of two core histones during S phase of the plant cell cycle.
!~RES~! Generation of stable transgenic plants from the three model species M. truncatula, L. japonicus, and A. thaliana was of crucial importance in elucidation of HAC1 function and tissue localization. After genetic transformation of wild-type M. truncatula and L. japonicus, stable T0 lines were obtained and verified by PCR for the presence of the selectable marker gene. Three to five independent transgenic T1 lines with modified expression levels of HAC1, and HAC1-GUS/GFP promoter reporters were used for all further analyses. Five independent transgenic T1 lines were selected for phenotypic characterization. To facilitate selection of transgenic plants, the seeds produced from the primary transformants of A. thaliana were sown on selective medium with 50 mg/L Km. In the homozygous T3 plants, HAC1 transcript levels were evaluated and three to five independent lines selected for further analyses. Expression analysis of 20-day-old T1 seedlings of OE M. truncatula lines displayed enhanced transcript levels of HAC1. In T1 OE 1 and OE 3, expression of HAC1 was increased from 6 to 9.5 times (р ≤ 0.01), while in OE 2, HAC1 transcripts increased about 15 times (Fig. 1a). In all knockdown plants, HAC1 transcript abundance was lower as compared to the wild type (р ≤ 0.001) (Fig. 1b). The expression level of HAC1 in 90-day-old plants with overexpression (OE 2 line) and downregulation (RNAi 1 line), grown in a hydroponic system, did not change significantly with age (р ≤ 0.01) (Fig. 1g). The HAC1 transcripts in the nodules of T1 OE and RNAi lines showed higher levels in the OE line of M. truncatula (p < 0.05) and lower abundance in the knockdown line (p < 0.01) compared to control. [[FIGURE]]  Evaluation of the expression of HAC1 in 20-day-old seedlings of T1 OE and RNAi lines of L. japonicus showed higher transcript levels in the OE 2 line (р ≤ 0.05) and reduced levels in all knockdown lines (Fig. 1c, d). The transcript level in 90-day-old leaves and stems of the OE 2 and RNAi 4 lines, grown as hydroponic cultures, remained unchanged (Fig. 1h). In L. japonicus, the HAC1 transcript level in nodules from the OE line was significantly higher than the transcript level in leaves and stems (p < 0.01) and twice higher than the level in nodules from the M. truncatula OE line. Approximately 10 times lower transcript abundance was detected in the nodules of the knockdown line (p < 0.01) compared to the OE line, and 5 times lower (p < 0.05) compared to the wild-type control (Fig. 1h).  HAC1 was heterologously overexpressed in A. thaliana, and monitoring the transcript abundance in three homozygous lines, OE 1, OE 2, and OE 3, showed three times higher expression than in the control (р ≤ 0.05) (Fig. 1e). Endogenous level of HAC1 transcripts in the three RNAi lines, RNAi 4, RNAi 5, and RNAi 10, was also evaluated. Only line RNAi 10 showed reduced transcript levels (р ≤ 0.001) (Fig. 1f). Transcriptional reporters of the three model species M. truncatula, L. japonicus, and A. thaliana allowed detection of HAC1 localization in different plant tissues and organs. In T1 plants of M. truncatula, GUS expression was detected at different stages of somatic embryogenesis: globule, torpedo, and cotyledon (Fig. 2a–c); in nodes (Fig. 2d) and young internodes regions (Fig. 2e); and also at the base of the petiole (Fig. 2f) and vascular system of primary root (Fig. 2g). In L. japonicus, GUS expression was observed in stem nodes (Fig. 2h), leaf bases (Fig. 2i), young petioles (Fig. 2j), and nodule vasculature (Fig. 3a). Expression of GUS reporter gene in A. thaliana plants was seen in stem nodes (Fig. 2k), petal vascular tissue (Fig. 2l), and on the top of the stamen stalk (Fig. 2m). Confocal microscopy observations revealed GFP fluorescence in the nuclei and cytoplasm of root cells (Fig. 4a, b) and in trichome nuclei and root meristem of A. thaliana (Fig. 4c, d). GFP activity was also detected in the roots and nodules of L. japonicus (Fig. 3c). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  The function of HAC1 gene was studied by assessment of morphological parameters of М. truncatula OE and RNAi lines, grown either in vitro, in vivo (greenhouse), or as hydroponic cultures. The root system of in vitro-grown М. truncatula OE lines was characterized by primary roots in a circular arrangement around the stem and forming more secondary branches (Fig. 5a), as compared to controls (Fig. 5b). Roots of in vitro RNAi lines were similar to the control roots but thicker (Fig. 5c). In vitro RNAi lines had a dwarf phenotype with shortened and thick stems (Fig. 5c), thick roots covered with long root hairs (Fig. 5e), and small leaves, covered with many trichomes (Fig. 5d). [[FIGURE]]   М. truncatula OE lines grown in greenhouse conditions (Fig. 6a) had a large well-developed aerial part and more extensively branched stems (Fig. 6a, left) compared to the control (Fig. 6a, right). Hydroponically grown plants showed highly branched root system with a pronounced spindle shape (Fig. 6c) and a higher number of small nodules, as compared to the wild type (Fig. 6b). M. truncatula RNAi lines grown in greenhouse conditions possessed shorter aerial part with small leaves. Most of the flowers turned black and fell off; some plants were able to form small pods (Fig. 7a). Hydroponically grown plants formed nodules in the upper part of the root system that was considerably less branched (Fig. 7b). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]  In vitro OE lines of L. japonicus possessed short branched stems and thickened roots, which was opposite to the unbranched stems and long thin roots in wild-type plants. Hydroponically grown OE lines of L. japonicus had large-size nodules usually located in the upper part of the root system, while the control plants formed smaller and dispersed nodules (Fig. 8a, b, e, f). Downregulation of HAC1 resulted in plants with smaller leaves and nodules located in the middle part of the root (Fig. 8c, d). A reduced nodule number was noticed in both L. japonicus OE and RNAi lines, as compared to the control plants. [[FIGURE]]  To examine T4 homozygous A. thaliana OE 2 and RNAi 10 lines, morphometric analyses were done, and the following parameters quantified: root growth dynamics, width and length of the leaf blade, petiole length, and silique length and width. Statistical analyses of root growth dynamics showed higher root growth rate of OE 2 line at 24 h (р ≤ 0.05 ) and 48 h (р ≤ 0.001), compared to the wild-type (Fig. 9а). In contrast, the RNAi 10 line showed reduced primary root length at 48 h (р ≤ 0.001) and 72 h (р ≤ 0.001), as compared to the control (Fig. 9a). [[FIGURE]]  The OE 2 line possessed significantly smaller leaf blade width (р ≤ 0.05) and length (р ≤ 0.01) and petiole length (р ≤ 0.05), compared to the wild type (Fig. 9b). In contrast, in the RNAi 10 line, the same parameters were very similar to those of the wild type (Fig. 9b). The silique length of the OE 2 line was similar to the wild type, while the silique width was significantly reduced (р ≤ 0.05) (Fig. 9c, d). In the RNAi 10 line, the silique length and width were significantly increased (р ≤ 0.01), as compared to the control (Fig. 9c, d). Microscopic analyses of leaf epidermis of A. thaliana with modified expression of HAC1 showed that RNAi 10 produced bigger leaves with larger epidermal cells (Fig. 10a, c; ESM 1c) and a decreased epidermal cell number (Fig. 10b), compared to the wild type and OE 2 line. On the other hand, OE 2 line formed smaller leaves with an increased epidermal cell number, compared to the wild type and RNAi 10 line (Fig. 10a, b; ESM 1a, b). [[FIGURE]]  In mature first leaves, DNA ploidy levels were assessed by flow cytometric measurements. Line RNAi 10 formed leaves with a significant increase in 8C and 16C cells, as compared to line OE 2. The ploidy level was between 2 and 3 times higher than in wild-type leaves (Fig. 10d). This observation correlated well with the larger epidermal cell size detected by microscopic observations (ESM 1c). In OE 2, the ploidy distribution was similar to the control with the only exception of almost doubled number of cells with 16C nuclei.  A. thaliana root tips from seedlings of OE 2, RNAi 10, and wild type were synchronized by treatment with 1 mM HU (Cools et al. CITATION). After 8 h of synchronization, corresponding to S phase, root tips were harvested. Transcript levels of the S-phase marker gene (CYCA3;1) and two core histones H2B and H4 were evaluated by qRT-PCR. In HAC1 knockdown line (RNAi 10), a higher accumulation of H2B and H4 transcripts was detected, as H2B showed more distinct increase. In the OE 2 line, transcript levels of the tested genes were equal to the control, which imply that HAC1 is probably involved in acetylation of histones H2B and H4 (Fig. 10e). We also tested whether the acetyltransferase inhibitor curcumin is effective in plant cells. L. japonicus OE and wild-type seedlings were treated with curcumin at a concentration of 80 and 100 μM for 24 and 48 h. Expression analyses of collected root tips displayed that the transcript level of HAC1 in wild-type root meristem was reduced after treatment with 100 μM curcumin at time points 24 and 48 h. On the other hand, in the OE line, HAC1 transcript level was also reduced but showed the same values at the two time points analyzed (Fig. 10f). In order to test if the homeotic genes AP1 and AP3 could be possible targets of HAC1, we evaluated their transcript levels in the flowers of A. thaliana transgenic and wild-type plants. Results showed higher levels of AP1 transcripts in the flowers of OE 2 line, as compared to wild-type plants. In the flowers of the knockdown RNAi 10 line, the transcript level of AP1 was considerably lower than in the control and OE 2 line. The transcript level of AP3 was similar to the control (Fig. 10g). Deviations in flower morphology, such as the number and shape of petals (Fig. 11b, c), were observed in knockdown plants of the line RNAi 10, grown in greenhouse conditions, compared to control flowers (Fig. 11a). [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! To generate different HAC1 constructs, the Gateway cloning system was used (Invitrogen Life Technologies, Inc., www.lifetechnologies.com). The Entry clones were designed through recombining the promoter sequence of HAC1 (Mt0g02950, Plaza 2.5, www.medicago.org) with the pDONRP4P1R donor vector, and the open reading frame (ORF) of the gene with the pDONR221 donor vector. Expression clones were generated by recombining the promoter Entry clone with the pEX-K7SNFm14GW (promoter-NLS-GUS/GFP) destination vector possessing neomycin phosphotransferase (nptII) gene as a selection marker for transgenic plants. The HAC1 gene entry clone was transferred into the destination vectors for overexpression (pK7WG2 and pK7FWG2) under the control of CaMV 35S promoter and nptII gene for plant selection (Karimi et al. CITATION). To specifically knockdown HAC1 in M. truncatula, RNA interference (RNAi) strategy (Limpens et al. CITATION) was used. For in silico prediction of the gene region with high silencing capacity that is optimal for the synthesis of double-stranded RNA (dsRNAs), Xwin Razor software was used. To identify the unique gene-specific tag sequence, potential target mRNAs were analyzed, and the specificity was evaluated by a single BLASTn search in the database of M. truncatula (Medicago truncatula Genome Project, http://jcvi.org/medicago). To create the expression clone, the binary Gateway vector pK7GWIWG2D(II) for hairpin RNA expression was used. A fragment of 130 bp, corresponding to nucleotide positions 132–262 of the ORF of MtHAC1, was silenced. The ORF of the Arabidopsis ortholog At1g79000 was targeted at nucleotide positions 138–264. The ORF of the Lotus ortholog Lj0g253430 was silenced at positions 90–216. The generated constructs were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58C1, which was maintained on YEB nutrient medium solidified with agar (1.5 %) and supplemented with 100 mg/L rifampicin (Rif), 100 mg/L spectinomycin (Sp), and 50 mg/L gentamycin (Gm). Stable transgenic lines with HAC1 overexpression (OE), RNAi-mediated knockdown, and transcriptional reporters were generated for the three model species by A. tumefaciens-mediated transformation. To initiate in vitro plant material, seeds of the highly regenerable genotype M. truncatula cv. Jemalong 2HA (Nolan et al. CITATION) were used. They were surface sterilized with 6 % (v/v) solution of sodium hypochlorite for 15 min, rinsed at least five times with sterile distilled water, and germinated on MS basal medium (Murashige and Skoog CITATION). Then, the germinated seedlings were propagated by cuttings. In vitro plant materials were maintained in Magenta boxes (60 × 60 × 96 mm, Sigma) in a growth chamber at 24 °C, 16-h photoperiod, and light intensity of 30 μmol m−2 s−1. Leaf and petiole explants were collected from 35-day-old in vitro plants and subjected to genetic transformation. Transgenic plants of M. truncatula were obtained using a combined protocol, described by d’Erfurth et al. (CITATION), Chabaud et al. (CITATION), and Iantcheva et al. (CITATION). Leaf and petiole explants were wounded with a sterile scalpel blade and precultivated for a 2-day period in darkness on the solid Shab callus induction medium, consisting of SH macro- and micronutrients, vitamins, 5 mg/L auxin 2,4-D (2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid), and 1 mg/L BAP (6-benzylaminopurine). Then, the explants were inoculated with bacterial suspension (OD600 = 0.5) under shaking (100 rpm) for 1 h. The transformed plant material was co-cultivated for an additional 48 h, then transferred for 2 weeks to Shab medium with 50 mg/L kanamycin (Km) and 400 mg/L carbenicillin (Cb) to enable selection of the transformed tissue and remove Agrobacterium. In order to complete the process of callus initiation, after callus appearance along the edge of the wound, the explants were transferred to callus induction medium (CIM) (MS macro- and micronutrients, vitamins, 2 mg/L zeatin, 1 mg/L 2,4-D), containing the same concentrations of Km and Cb for two more weeks. To form green embryo zones, after development of a clearly visible callus tissue, explants were transferred for 2 weeks to the 09-03 medium [MS macro- and micronutrients, 0.9 mg/L BAP, and 0.3 mg/L NAA (α-naphthaleneacetic acid)], containing 200 mg/L Cb and without the selective agent Km. Embryo formation and development continued on selective MS1 medium (0.05 mg/L BAP and 250 mg/L casein hydrolysate) with 50 mg/L Km. After production of cotyledonary stage embryos, plant material was transferred for rooting to selective MS medium containing 50 mg/L Km. The rooted plantlets were cultivated on selective MS basal medium (50 mg/L Km) and, after sampling for analyses, transferred to soil and grown in a greenhouse for seed production. Seeds of L. japonicus ecotype B-129 Gifu, obtained from Dr. Hiroshi Kouchi, were gently scarified with sandpaper and surface sterilized with 70 % (v/v) ethanol for 30 s and 0.1 % (v/v) mercury chloride (HgCl2) for 8 min, washed in sterile distilled water at least five times, and sowed on MS basal medium (Murashige and Skoog CITATION). The germinated seedlings were then propagated by cuttings. Leaf explants were collected from 30- to 40-day-old in vitro plants and used for Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. In vitro plant material was grown in Magenta boxes (60 × 60 × 96 mm, Sigma) in a growth chamber with a photoperiod of 16 h, 30 μmol m−2 s−1 light intensity, and a temperature of 24 °C. CIM was based on B5 (Gamborg et al. CITATION) solid medium containing 4 mg/L 2,4-D, 0.8 mg/L kinetin, 1 mg/L adenine (6-aminopurine, Sigma-Aldrich), 500 mg/L casein hydrolysate, 500 mg/L myo-inositol, 3 % sucrose (w/v), and 0.7 % (w/v) phyto agar (P 1003, http://www.duchefa.com). Embryo induction medium (EIM) was based on MS medium supplemented with 0.9 mg/L BAP and 0.3 mg/L NAA, 3 % sucrose (w/v), and 0.7 % (w/v) phyto agar, as described by Iantcheva et al. (CITATION). The embryo development medium (EDM) for L. japonicus was based on B5 medium supplemented with 0.2 mg/L BAP, 3 % sucrose (w/v), and 0.7 % (w/v) phyto agar. For embryo conversion and rooting (ECR), basal MS medium was used. Wounded leaf and petiole explants from in vitro wild-type plants were precultured before inoculation with bacterial suspension on CIM for 48 h. Explants were inoculated with a bacterial suspension at an optical density of 0.3 at 600 nm (OD600) for 1 h and co-cultivated for 2 days on solid CIM without the selective antibiotic Km. Explants were then transferred for callus induction to solid selective medium, containing 50 mg/L Km for selection of the transformed tissue, and 400 mg/L Cb to remove bacterial infection. The selective medium was refreshed every 20 days. After 60 days, embryogenic calli were transferred to EIM for 25 days under no selective pressure. The first green zones on calli were seen after 10–15 days, subsequently growing and forming clusters of closely packed thick globular embryos. Further embryo development was undertaken on EDM for two to three passages (20 days each). The developed dark green globular embryos formed cotyledonary leaves after at least two passages (40 days). Kanamycin selection was employed during embryo development, conversion, and rooting. Selective Cb concentration was half reduced in EIM and EDM and fully removed from ECR medium. To generate transgenic plants, Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of A. thaliana ecotype Columbia-0 (Col-0) via the floral-dip method (Clough and Bent CITATION) was used. T3 and T4 homozygous lines were analyzed: transformants carrying the reporter genes GUS and GFP fused to the endogenous HAC1 promoter (pHAC1:GUS/GFP), transformants with HAC1 overexpression (HAC1-OE), and RNAi-mediated downregulation (HAC1-RNAi). Plants were grown in soil in a greenhouse at 21 °C under long-day conditions (16 h light/8 h dark). In vitro plant material was obtained after seed sterilization for 2 min in 70 % ethanol and 12 min in commercial bleach. Then, the seeds were rinsed with sterile distilled water and plated on square plates containing MS medium solidified with 0.8 % agar (Murashige and Skoog CITATION), supplemented with 20 g/L sucrose and 0.43 g/L 2-(N-morpholino)ethanesulfonic acid (MES). Seedlings were grown in a growth chamber at 24 °C, with a 16-h photoperiod under light intensity of 30 μmol m−2 s−1. The root meristem from transgenic and wild-type seedlings from A. thaliana was synchronized as described by Cools et al. (CITATION). At first, seeds were plated on nylon meshes and grown on MS medium for 5 days (Prosep), then transferred to MS medium containing 1 mM hydroxyurea (HU) (Sigma-Aldrich) for 8 h. Root tips (1 mm) were harvested for transcriptional analyses. Seedlings from wild-type L. japonicus and T1-HAC1-OE 2 line were treated on MS medium supplemented with 80 and 100 μM curcumin (diferuloylmethane) for 24 and 48 h. Root tips (1 mm) were harvested for transcriptional analyses. The 35-day-old in vitro wild-type and T1 transgenic plants from the two model legume species were transferred into hydroponic containers, containing 1.2 L Fahraeus nutrient solution (1 g/L−1 CaCl2⋅2H2O, 1.2 g/L−1 MgSO4⋅7H2O, 1 g/L−1 K2HPO4, 1.5 g/L−1 Na2HPO4⋅12H2O, 21 mg/L−1 Ca(NO3)2⋅4H2O as a starting nitrogen dose, Gibson micronutrients, and 0.005 g/L−1 iron citrate, pH 6.5–6.8). Plants were cultivated at a temperature of 25 °С/20 °С day/night, 16-h photoperiod under light intensity of 300 μmol m−2 s−1. During the transfer into the hydroponic containers, the bacterial suspension (approximately 2.108 cells of Sinorhizobium meliloti 1021 or Mesorhizobium loti MAFF 303099) was added to each container. Depending on plant age, the nutrient solution was changed once or twice a week. Leaves from mature 3-week-old plants were cleared in absolute ethanol until chlorophyll was removed and then mounted for 24 h in lactic acid on glass slides. The samples were observed under Carl Zeiss Axio Scope upright microscope. Leaf area was measured in scanned images and calculated as the mean sum of 12 individual leaf blades from three independent experiments. To determine mean epidermal cell area, epidermal cells were measured at two different zones of each leaf. Epidermal cell number was estimated as means of 12 leaves. Leaf area, cell size, and cell number were analyzed using ImageJ 1.41 software. Images of plant segments expressing GFP were collected using a SZX7 fluorescence stereomicroscope (460–490 nm excitation and 510–550 nm emission) with a DP73 digital camera (Olympus). Fluorescence imaging of roots was acquired with an Axiovert100M confocal laser scanning microscope and LSM510 software package (Zeiss). GFP was excited at 488 nm with an argon laser. DNA ploidy levels were assessed in 21-day-old first mature leaves of seedlings of A. thaliana OE 2 and RNAi 10 lines and compared to the wild-type. Leaves were chopped with a razor blade in 200 μL CyStain UV Precise nuclei extraction buffer, then DNA was stained by 800 μL staining buffer (Partec), and samples filtered using a 30-μm mesh. Measurements were carried out with a CyFlow flow cytometer (Partec) and data analysis was performed using CXP Analysis software (Partec). Six leaves were analyzed and three technical repeats were assayed. Total RNA was extracted from 20-day-old T1 seedlings and leaves, stems, and nodules from mature 90-day-old hydroponic plants of the wild-type, OE, and RNAi lines. The transcript level of AP1 and AP3 was determined in flowers from the wild-type Arabidopsis plants, T4-HAC1-OE 2 line, and T4 RNAi 10 lines. Total RNA was isolated using the RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen), according to the manufacturer’s protocol. First-strand cDNA synthesis was carried out using the Fermentas First-Strand cDNA Synthesis Kit. Gene expression levels were analyzed in triplicate on a 7300 Real-time PCR System (Applied Biosystems) with primers listed in ESM 2. Actin (ACT) and ubiquitin (UBQ10) were used as reference genes for data normalization. Plant tissue from independent in vitro- and greenhouse-grown transgenic T1 lines from the two model legumes and T3 lines from A. thaliana were stained for GUS activity. Plant material was incubated in 90 % acetone for 30 min at 4 °C, then washed in phosphate buffer at room temperature, and incubated in staining solution (for 10 mL: 5 mg 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-glucuronide dissolved in 50 μL formamide; 5 mL 100 mM sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.0); 200 μL 0.5 M Na2EDTA; 10 μL Triton X-100; 1 mL 1 mM K4Fe(CN)6⋅3H2O; 1 mL 1 mM K3Fe(CN)6; 2 mL methanol and supplemented with 240 μL H2O) at 37 °C overnight. After staining, the tissue was transferred to absolute ethanol. Root lengths were measured 5 days after seed germination and recorded every 24 h for three consecutive days. The primary root length of at least 20 plants of the selected OE and RNAi lines and the wild type were acquired for each data set. Silique length and width, and leaf length (L) and width (W), as well as petiole length (P) were measured. Each leaf was collected from the same level of the rosette of greenhouse-grown plants and then scanned. The images were analyzed using ImageJ 1.41 software. All experiments were carried out in triplicate and repeated three times for each experimental data set. Data were analyzed via SPSS 11.5 software. p values lower than 0.05 were considered statistically significant. Results are expressed as means ± standard deviation (SD).
