!~ABS~! Iron (Fe) is an essential micronutrient for humans. Fe deficiency disease is widespread and has led to extensive studies on the mechanisms of Fe uptake and storage, especially in staple food crops such as rice. However, studies of functionally related genes in rice and other crops are often time and space demanding. Here, we demonstrate that transgenic Arabidopsis suspension culture cells and Arabidopsis plants can be used as an efficient expression system for gain-of-function study of selected transporters, using Fe transporters as a proof-of-principle. The vacuolar membrane transporters OsVIT1 and OsVIT2 have been described to be important for iron sequestration, and disruption of these two genes leads to Fe accumulation in rice seeds. In this study, we have taken advantage of the fluorescent-tagged protein GFP-OsVIT1, which functionally complements the Fe hypersensitivity of ccc1 yeast mutant, to generate transgenic Arabidopsis suspension cell lines and plants. GFP-OsVIT1 was shown to localize on the vacuolar membrane using confocal microscopy and immunogold EM. More importantly, the Fe concentration, as well as the concentration of Zn, in the transgenic cell lines and plants were significantly increased compared to that in the WT. Taken together, our study shows that the heterologous expression of rice vacuolar membrane transporter OsVIT1 in Arabidopsis system is functional and effectively enhances iron accumulation, indicating an useful approach for studying other putative transporters of crop plants in this system.
!~RES~! As the basis for further study, we first wished to confirm the function of OsVIT1 and to find out whether the fluorescent GFP tag would affect its function. In previous studies, the yeast complementation assay has been widely used to confirm the function of multiple transporters (Bashir et al. CITATION; Kim et al. CITATION; Momonoi et al. CITATION; Zhang et al. CITATION). Here, we amplified the full-length OsVIT1, generated a GFP-fused construct and expressed the constructs with insertions of OsVIT1 and GFP-OsVIT1 into the yeast mutant Δccc1, which is sensitive to high amount of extracellular iron (Kim et al. CITATION; Li et al. CITATION). As shown in Fig. 1a, on the plate without any extra Fe, the yeast with all constructs grew normally. However, on the medium with extra 5 mM FeSO4, the ccc1 mutant with the pYES2 empty vector failed to survive, while overexpression of OsVIT1 could largely rescue the sensitivity of the mutant. This result is consistent with the previous study (Zhang et al. CITATION). More importantly, both overexpression of GFP-OsVIT1 and OsVIT1 alone showed similar growth, no matter in wild-type or mutant background. GFP-OsVIT1 fusion protein also rescued the lethal phenotype of the ccc1 mutant on the media with extra Fe (Fig. 1a). The result showed that the fusion protein GFP-OsVIT1 could complement the yeast mutant and still function as an iron transporter. We further checked the localization of GFP-OsVIT1 in yeast cells using confocal microscopy. As shown in Fig. 1b, after 9-h induction, GFP-OsVIT1 localized to the vacuolar membrane in yeast, which is consistent with the localization of Arabidopsis VIT1 in Arabidopsis protoplast (Fig. 1b, c). The result is consistent with previous reports, indicating that the membrane localization of VIT homologs in different systems is conserved (Kim et al. CITATION; Zhang et al. CITATION). [[FIGURE]]  Next, we utilized the convenient transient expression system in protoplasts to confirm the localization of the fusion protein in plant cells (Miao and Jiang CITATION). Here in our system, and consistent with previous reports, GFP-OsVIT1 showed clear tonoplast localization in Arabidopsis protoplasts (Fig. 2a). Interestingly, some punctate signals were observed in the protoplasts, which partially colocalized with the prevacuolar compartment (PVC) marker AtVSR2, indicating that OsVIT1 is transported through the PVC to the vacuole, similar to AtVIT1 (Wang et al. CITATION). The other punctate signals that were not colocalized with PVC might represent the Golgi complex and trans-Golgi network along the secretory pathway. [[FIGURE]]  We further transiently expressed the fusion protein GFP-OsVIT1 in rice protoplasts. As shown in Fig. 2b, about 12 h after transfection, expression of GFP-OsVIT1 mainly showed punctate signals, which colocalized with AtVSR2. Interestingly, 24 h after transfection, a clear tonoplast pattern could be observed in the protoplasts, together with the remaining punctate signals representing the PVC (Fig. 2c). Taken together, these data showed that GFP-OsVIT1 has the same localization to the vacuolar membrane in both rice and Arabidopsis protoplasts. Next, we generated stable transgenic Arabidopsis cell lines with overexpressed GFP-OsVIT1 using an Agrobacterium transformation mediated method (Lam et al. CITATION). The cell lines were first subjected to confocal microscopy to study the localization of the fusion protein. As shown in Fig. 3a, the fusion protein mainly localized to the tonoplast plus small puncta, which is consistent with previous results in protoplasts. Strong GFP signals were also observed in the vacuole in some cells, indicating that these cells might be in a later stage of growth and the excess proteins were being degraded in the vacuole (Fig. 3a). [[FIGURE]]  We further carried out a western blot analysis to monitor the protein levels in the three individual cell lines as indicated in Fig. 3b, c, using GFP and VIT1 antibodies, respectively. The predicted molecular weight of the OsVIT1 protein is around 26 kDa. As shown in Fig. 3b, the GFP antibody detected both the GFP-OsVIT1 fusion protein and the degraded GFP core, consistent with the confocal result. The cell line #50 showed stronger expression than the other two. We also generated OsVIT1 antibodies using a synthetic peptide as the antigen. The result with the OsVIT1 antibody also detected a stronger fusion protein in cell line #50, which is consistent with the GFP antibody (Fig. 3c). In addition, native VIT1 proteins could also be detected considering the high similarity between OsVIT1 and AtVIT1, as indicated by the asterisk in Fig. 3c. In all these western blot analyses, tubulin was used as an internal control, showing the equal loading. A previous study indicated that OsVIT1 is a functional vacuolar iron transporter and can contribute to the accumulation of iron in yeast cells, suggesting its conserved function in yeast and rice (Zhang et al. CITATION). Our localization data also indicated that OsVIT1 has the same localization in yeast and Arabidopsis cells as that in rice (Figs. 1 and 2). Therefore, we propose that OsVIT1 could have a conserved function in the Arabidopsis cells as a vacuolar transporter and heterologous expression of OsVIT1 could increase the vacuolar iron concentration. To verify this hypothesis, we conducted inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry (ICP-OES) to measure the iron concentration in Arabidopsis transgenic cell lines. As shown in Fig. 4a, the iron concentrations in three independent cell lines (#44, #50, and #61) was significantly increased compared to that in the WT cell line. This result indicated that overexpressed OsVIT1 may indeed have the function of a vacuolar iron transporter and could contribute to the accumulation of iron. Interestingly, the cell line #50 showed the highest iron concentration compared to the other two, consistent with the protein expression level of OsVIT1 in the cell lines (Fig. 3b, c). This result further confirmed the positive correlation between the increase in iron concentration and the expression level of OsVIT1. [[FIGURE]]  In addition, Zn concentration also showed a similar increased pattern with Fe, consistent with the previous study showing OsVIT1 and OsVIT2 could also function to transport Zn and Mn (Zhang et al. CITATION). Here, however, Mn concentration showed a slight decrease (Fig. 4a). The concentration of Cu also showed obvious increase (Fig. 4b). At the same time, we also measured the concentrations of multiple macronutrients. As shown in Supplemental Fig. S1, the concentration of P showed an obvious increase in the transgenic cell lines, while Ca and Mg showed a slight decrease. Taken together, these results indicated that overexpressed OsVIT1 in Arabidopsis cells indeed function to transport Fe and increases the accumulation of iron and other micronutrients like Zn. We further generated the transgenic Arabidopsis plants that stably expressed GFP-OsVIT1 under the 35S promoter. Similarly, the plants were first subjected to confocal microscopy for localization studies. Consistent with our previous results, the fluorescent signal of GFP-OsVIT1 localized to the tonoplast and punctate structures as shown in Fig. 5. To detect the protein expression levels in the transgenic Arabidopsis plants, we extracted total proteins from three independent lines and detected the fusion proteins using GFP antibodies. As shown in Fig. 5j, the transgenic lines #3 and #7 showed stronger expression than #4. In this western blot analysis, Ponceau S staining was used as an internal control, showing the equal loading. [[FIGURE]]  We also performed an immunogold electron microscopy study with these transgenic plants. The samples were fixed by high-pressure freezing and labeled using GFP antibodies. Figure 6a shows the wild-type Arabidopsis plant under the electron microscopy. As shown in Fig. 6b–i, the vacuolar membrane was labeled by the gold particles (indicated by arrowhead), further confirming the tonoplast localization of GFP-OsVIT1. Interestingly, gold particles were also found on PVC as indicated with asterisks in Fig. 6e, which represents the punctate signals and is consistent with the colocalization between GFP-OsVIT1 and RFP-AtVSR2 in Fig. 2. [[FIGURE]]  To investigate whether GFP-OsVIT1 could function similarly in Arabidopsis plants as that in the suspension cells, we further measured the iron concentration in plant tissues. As shown in Fig. 7a, a significant increase in Fe concentration was observed in transgenic Arabidopsis silique tissues compared to the WT. This result is consistent with that in suspension cells, indicating that GFP-OsVIT1 indeed functions in Arabidopsis plants. Interestingly, both Mn and Zn concentrations were also increased while no obvious change in Cu was observed (Fig. 7b–d). As shown in Supplemental Fig. S2, the result with stem tissues revealed a similar pattern. Macronutrients were also measured in the experiments. For the concentrations of Ca, Mg, and P, only one transgenic line showed a slight increase in the stem while the other two lines showed no significant change. [[FIGURE]]  To have a better picture of the function of OsVIT1, we further supplied extra Fe to the wild-type and transgenic plants with highest Fe accumulation (line #3), and compared iron accumulation. As shown in Fig. 8a, c, Fe and Zn concentrations were increased when supplied with extra Fe in both WT and transgenic Arabidopsis siliques, while transgenic plants show a more obvious increase than the WT plants. Surprisingly, Mn concentration is decreased when supplied with extra Fe (Fig. 8b). The result in the stem is similar to that in the silique (Supplement Fig. S4). For Cu and the other macronutrients like Ca, P, and Mg, the concentration did not show an obvious change with extra Fe supply (Supplement Fig. S5). [[FIGURE]] 
!~MM~! For GFP fusion constructs, full-length coding sequence of OsVIT1 (Os04g0463400) was amplified and cloned into pBI221/pBI121 backbone containing the 35S promoter and the nopaline synthase terminator using primers F: 5′-GGGTCTAGAATGGCGGCGGCG ACGGACGG and R: 3′-GGGGAGCTCTCATCTAGTTTGCACGGCCTTG. For the constructs for yeast complementation assay, OsVIT1 was amplified and inserted into pYES2 with the restriction sites KpnI and XhoI. The whole cassette of GFP-OsVIT1 was amplified from previous constructs pBI221-GFP-OsVIT1 and inserted into pYES2 vectors. All these constructs were confirmed by restriction mapping and finally DNA sequencing. GFP-AtVIT1 and RFP-AtVSR2 have been described previouly (Wang et al. CITATION).  Saccharomyces cerevisiae WT and mutant strains (Y10000 and Y14619) were ordered from Euroscarf (http://web.uni-frankfurt.de/fb15/mikro/euroscarf/). Constructs pYES2 with or without the fragment of OsVIT1 were transformed into the yeast cells as previously described (Elble CITATION). Selected clones were spotted onto synthetic defined medium with galactose and different concentrations of Fe as indicated. The plates were incubated at 30° for 2–3 days. FeSO4·7H2O was used as external Fe source. For the confocal image with yeast cells, GFP-OsVIT1 was transformed into yeast strain Y10000. The expression was induced by galactose for 9 h before image collection. Transient expression in the Arabidopsis plant system biology dark-type culture (PSBD) and rice protoplast was performed as described previously (Miao and Jiang CITATION; Shen et al. CITATION). Confocal fluorescence images were taken after 14–16 h using an Olympus FV1000 system (http://www.olympusconfocal.com). Line sequential scanning mode was always selected in dual-channel observation to avoid the possible cross talk between two fluorophores like GFP and RFP. For each experiment, more than 30 individual cells were observed for confocal imaging that represented >75 % of the cells showing similar expression levels and patterns. Images were further processed using Adobe Photoshop software (http://www.adobe.com) as previously described (Jiang and Rogers CITATION). Generation of transgenic Arabidopsis PSBD cells was performed essentially as described (Lam et al. CITATION; Wang et al. CITATION). Generated callus were maintained in Murashige and Skoog (MS) plate with 1 % agar in the 27 °C incubator, and the suspension cell lines were maintained in liquid MS medium at 25 °C and 130 rpm in the shaker. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants were generated using floral-dip method as described previously (Clough and Bent CITATION). For plant growth conditions, seeds were surface sterilized and sown on MS plates with 0.8 % agar. The plates were kept at 4 °C for 2 days and then moved to the growth chamber. The plates were incubated at 22 °C under a long-day (16-h light/8-h dark) photoperiod. Seven-day-old seedlings were transferred into the soil and grew under a long-day (16-h light/8-h dark) photoperiod for 1 month in the growth chamber. Arabidopsis plants were watered with H2O or nutrient solutions with or without supplemental Fe. The nutrient solution was prepared as previously described, and the extra Fe was supplied as 50 μM Fe-EDTA (Kim et al. CITATION). GFP antibodies were generated using recombinant GFP purchased from Roche Applied Science (http://www.roche-applied-science.com) as antigen to inject rabbits at the Chinese University of Hong Kong. Similarly, OsVIT1 antibodies were generated using synthetic peptides as antigen to inject rabbits. Serums were affinity-purified using CnBr-activated Sepharose (Sigma-Aldrich) conjugated with recombinant GFP/peptides. For immunoblot analysis, antibodies were used at a concentration of 4 μg/ml. To prepare proteins from Arabidopsis cells, suspension cells were harvested by filtering and ground with a pestle and mortar in protein extraction buffer containing 25 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 1 % SDS, and Complete Protease Inhibitor Cocktail (Roche). For the protein extraction from plants, 7-day-old seedlings were ground with a pestle and mortar in protein extraction buffer. The total extracts were centrifuged at 20,000g for 20 min at 4 °C. The supernatant was collected and further subjected to SDS-PAGE and immunoblot analysis. The general procedures of sample preparation and sectioning were performed as described previously (Lam et al. CITATION; Tse et al. CITATION). Transgenic Arabidopsis plants were subjected to high-pressure freezing and freeze substitution (Leica EM Part2 and Bal-Tec HPM010). Immunolabeling on HM20 sections was done using standard procedures as described previously with GFP antibodies at 60 mg/mL and gold-coupled secondary antibodies at 1:50 dilution. For the sample preparation of Arabidopsis cell lines, WT and three independent transgenic cell lines expressing GFP-OsVIT1 were collected and washed with distilled water three times. The samples were freeze-dried for 1 week. Arabidopsis plants were watered with double distilled H2O or nutrient solutions with or without supplemental Fe. The nutrient solution was prepared as previously described, and the extra Fe was supplied as 50 μM Fe-EDTA (Kim et al. CITATION). Stem and silique of the plants were collected and dried at 65 ° C for 48 h. The elemental concentrations of samples were determined using inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry (ICP-OES) as described previously (Garcia and Grusak CITATION).
