!~ABS~! Mitochondria are central to cellular metabolism and energy conversion. In plants they also enable photosynthesis through additional components and functional flexibility. A majority of those processes relies on the assembly of individual proteins to larger protein complexes, some of which operate as large molecular machines. There has been a strong interest in the makeup and function of mitochondrial protein complexes and protein–protein interactions in plants, but the experimental approaches used typically suffer from selectivity or bias. Here, we present a complexome profiling analysis for leaf mitochondria of the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana for the systematic characterization of protein assemblies. Purified organelle extracts were separated by 1D Blue native (BN) PAGE, a resulting gel lane was dissected into 70 slices (complexome fractions) and proteins in each slice were identified by label free quantitative shot-gun proteomics. Overall, 1359 unique proteins were identified, which were, on average, present in 17 complexome fractions each. Quantitative profiles of proteins along the BN gel lane were aligned by similarity, allowing us to visualize protein assemblies. The data allow re-annotating the subunit compositions of OXPHOS complexes, identifying assembly intermediates of OXPHOS complexes and assemblies of alternative respiratory oxidoreductases. Several protein complexes were discovered that have not yet been reported in plants, such as a 530 kDa Tat complex, 460 and 1000 kDa SAM complexes, a calcium ion uniporter complex (150 kDa) and several PPR protein complexes. We have set up a tailored online resource (https://complexomemap.de/at_mito_leaves) to deposit the data and to allow straightforward access and custom data analyses.
!~RES~! A previous analysis of mitochondrial protein complexes in the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana has been carried out for a suspension cell culture maintained in the dark and used for generating a GelMap (https://gelmap.de/1227). However, for analyzing mitochondrial functions in the context of photosynthesis, mitochondria have to be isolated from green tissues of Arabidopsis plants. In a pre-experiment for our complexome profiling analysis, a mitochondrial protein fraction isolated from Arabidopsis leaves was separated by 2D Blue native/SDS-PAGE. All visible spots were analyzed by MS and a new GelMap was generated for Arabidopsis leaf mitochondria (Figure 1 and Table S1). The map includes 197 spots; on average, 5.5 proteins were identified per spot (1079 protein identifications in total). Most proteins were identified in more than one spot (for discussion see next section). Overall, 323 non-redundant proteins are included in the new GelMap, all of which were assigned to functional categories. More than 100 of these proteins had not been identified in the previous GelMap project carried out for Arabidopsis cell culture mitochondria (Klodmann et al., CITATION). This set of proteins includes several enzymes known to be particularly relevant in the context of photosynthesis, like the alternative oxidoreductases of the respiratory chain. The new GelMap for Arabidopsis leaf mitochondria is accessible at https://gelmap.de/1275. [[FIGURE]] An estimation of the purity of our mitochondrial fractions from Arabidopsis leaves was carried out by analyzing the subcellular localization of the 323 proteins using the SUBAcon database (Hooper et al., CITATION). This database integrates experimental evidence and bioinformatic predictions to define subcellular localizations for Arabidopsis proteins. 87% of the proteins identified in our study could be assigned to the mitochondrial compartment, whereas only 7% are predicted to be localized in the chloroplasts. If the same evaluation was carried out on the basis of identified peptides, >90% of the identified peptides belonged to proteins assigned to mitochondria. Based on this estimation we consider our mitochondrial fraction of suitable purity for an in-depth complexome profiling analysis. For complexome profiling, a blue native gel lane of 140 mm length was dissected into 70 gel slices of 2 mm each (Figure 2). All 70 gel slices were analyzed by highly sensitive protein identification technology using UPLC runs of 3 h for peptide separation coupled with MS runs using an Orbitrap mass spectrometer for peptide identification and protein quantification (see Experimental Procedures). Overall, 225 354 MS/MS spectra were recorded leading to the identification of 170 057 peptides. On average, 335 proteins were identified per gel slice (about 100 proteins per gel slice in the high-molecular-mass region of the BN gel and up to 600 proteins per gel slice in the low-molecular-mass region of the gel; Figure 3, see Figure S1 for corresponding peptide data). This adds up to 23 531 identified proteins overall. However, nearly all proteins were identified in several gel slices. This can be for biological or methodological reasons:  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Overall, 1359 unique proteins were identified. On average, each protein was detected and quantified in 17 different gel slices (Figure S2). This allowed generating quantitative profiles for the identified proteins along the 70 gel slices. As a final step, the quantitative protein profiles were used to generate a heat map and clustered according to profile similarity (Figure 4 and Table S2, see also Table S3 for unprocessed peptide information for all 1359 proteins). [[FIGURE]] The identification of the 1359 unique proteins was based on a total of 11 458 unique peptides. This implies that the average protein is covered by 8.4 peptides. We again evaluated the purity of our mitochondrial fraction by analyzing the predicted localization of the unique peptides according to the SUBAcon database (Hooper et al., CITATION). Overall, 78% of the identified unique peptides could be assigned to mitochondrial proteins. To gain quantitative information on peptide distribution with respect to subcellular localization, peptide intensities of all complexome fractions were summed up and the predicted subcellular localization of their corresponding proteins were subsequently evaluated using the SUBAcon database. Overall, 95% of the sum of peptide intensities were assigned to mitochondrial proteins (Figure 5a), further confirming the purity of the mitochondrial fraction. [[FIGURE]] A critical approach should be taken when interpreting the presence of a protein or protein complex in the dataset as evidence for mitochondrial localization. Due to the sensitivity of the chosen MS/MS identification technique, proteins of very low abundance become detectable. These may represent rare mitochondrial proteins or, alternatively, abundant proteins of a contaminating compartment. Indeed, determination of the purity of the mitochondrial fraction depends on the relative abundance of the proteins per complexome fraction included in the calculation. Considering the five most abundant proteins per complexome fraction, 88% could be assigned to mitochondria according to SUBAcon evaluation (Figure 5b). Considering the 25 most abundant proteins per complexome fraction, only 79% could be assigned to the mitochondrial compartment (Figure 5c). If even less abundant proteins were included in the analysis, this percentage decreased further. Some of the low-abundant proteins of the complexome fractions can be ruled out to be present in the mitochondrial proteome, like subunits of the two photosystems or of RubisCO. We nevertheless included all proteins identified in all our complexome fractions into this study in order to provide a transparent and in-depth account of detectable protein–protein interactions. Despite unavoidable organellar contaminations, our dataset provides a long list of proteins potentially localized in mitochondria, which should be validated by orthogonal experimental approaches. Large numbers of potential protein associations are apparent in the heat map of the mitochondrial complexome based on profile alignments (Figure 4 and Table S2). Molecular mass calibration of the complexome fractions was carried out using the masses of well defined protein complexes (Figure S3). Many of the clustered proteins form part of well studied protein complexes, for instance the five protein complexes of the Oxidative Phosphorylation (OXPHOS) system or protein complexes involved in pre-protein import into the mitochondria or in protein folding. In the following sections we will exemplify new insights gained into the subunit composition of known protein complexes as well as the discovery of previously not described protein assemblies. However, it is beyond the scope of this article to comment on all putative protein complexes suggested by the complexome profile analysis. Instead, we consider the complexome dataset (Table S2) a rich resource that we provide to the scientific community for specific evaluations. The five protein complexes of the OXPHOS system have been well characterized in plants, particularly for Arabidopsis thaliana (e.g. Meyer et al., CITATION; Klodmann et al., CITATION). Nevertheless, the subunit composition of the complexes is not fully defined, as the status of some subunits is still under debate and additional subunits are frequently reported. According to most recent analyses, complex I of Arabidopsis is composed of 49 distinct subunits (Peters et al., CITATION; Braun et al., CITATION). In our complexome dataset, 47 of these subunits are detected (only the ND6 and SGDH subunits were not found; probably due to peptide quenching effects). Even peptides of the ND4L subunit of Arabidopsis were identified, which proved to be difficult in the past (Peters et al., CITATION). Several complex I subunits of Arabidopsis occur in pairs of isoforms, most of which are detected. Among the 47 complex I subunits included in our complexome dataset, 41 form a cluster on the heat map (Figure 6 and Appendix S1, p. 1). All these proteins have highly significant peaks at 1000 kDa (monomeric complex I) as well as at 1500 kDa (I+III2 supercomplex). Six further proteins are included in this cluster which do not represent proven complex I subunits. One of these proteins, a TIM22-like protein (At3g10110), was previously discussed to be associated with complex I in plants (Peters et al., CITATION; Braun et al., CITATION). A similar protein (At1g18320) has been shown to be a subunit of Arabidopsis complex I before. The five other proteins included in the complex I cluster of our heat map either have peaks at 1000 and 1500 kDa by coincident, or they might represent previously unknown proteins associated with complex I. This needs to be analyzed by future investigations. A few well defined complex I subunits are included in our complexome dataset, but their abundance profiles do not align with the cluster of other complex I proteins in our heat map. These proteins possibly got detached from the holo-complex during protein separation using 1D Blue native PAGE. [[FIGURE]] In addition to their peaks in the 1000 and 1500 kDa complexome fractions, most complex I subunits have minor abundance peaks in fractions in the 100 to 800 kDa range. These most likely represent complex I assembly intermediates. The molecular masses of some assembly intermediates correspond to previously described complexes of about 470, 650 and 850 kDa (Meyer et al., CITATION; Schertl et al., CITATION; Li et al., CITATION; Wydro et al., CITATION; Schimmeyer et al., CITATION). Others represent intermediates not reported before, e.g. of 130 and 300 kDa. If abundance profiles of complex I subunits are re-aligned excluding the molecular mass range above 850 or 550 kDa (excluding the peaks corresponding to monomeric complex I and the I+III2 supercomplex), subunits cluster mainly in accordance with the large complex I subdomains, the membrane and the peripheral arm (Appendix S1, pp. 2a and 2b). Complex I from plants includes an extra matrix-exposed domain which is attached to the membrane arm at a central position. This domain is composed of proteins resembling gamma-type carbonic anhydrases (Sunderhaus et al., CITATION; Fromm et al., CITATION). In our heat map, the carbonic anhydrase subunits of complex I form part of a 130 kDa subcomplex, which has not been described before. Complex II (the succinate dehydrogenase complex) includes four subunits termed SDH1-4 in most organisms investigated. In contrast, Arabidopsis complex II is composed of eight subunits (Eubel et al., CITATION; Millar et al., CITATION; Huang et al., CITATION; Schikowsky et al., CITATION). Seven of the eight complex II subunits form a cluster on the heat map of the Arabidopsis complexome (Figure 6, Appendix S1, p. 3). The main peak of all subunits is at 160 kDa. All subunits except SDH5 form part of additional smaller complexes, which might represent assembly intermediates. The 4.9 kDa SDH8 subunit (At2g46390) as well as three isoforms of other SDH subunits were not identified. Subunits of complex III (the cytochrome c reductase complex) form a highly defined cluster in the complexome dataset. Complex III from higher plants consists of 10 different subunits (Braun and Schmitz, CITATION; Klodmann et al., CITATION). Nine of the ten subunits are included in the cluster (Appendix S1, p. 4). Their main peaks are at 500 kDa (dimeric complex III). Further peaks are found at 1500 kDa (I+III2 supercomplex) and at 700 and 1700 kDa (very likely supercomplexes composed of complexes III2+IV and complexes III2+IV+I as described before; Eubel et al., CITATION). No complex III subcomplexes are visible indicating that dimeric complex III is rapidly formed and stable. The QCR6 subunit is detached from the complex. Two isoforms of other subunits (FeS-1, QCR6-2) were not identified. Complex IV (the cytochrome c oxidase complex) is the least well defined OXPHOS complex in plants. It includes seven subunits conserved in mitochondria of animals and fungi (COX1, COX2, COX3, COX5b, COX5c, COX6a, COX6b) and up to six plant-specific subunits which were termed X1, X2, X3, X4, X5 and X6 (Millar et al., CITATION; Klodmann et al., CITATION). Our heat map allows an independent evaluation of the assignment of the plant-specific subunits to complex IV. Complex IV subunits form a well defined cluster in our heat map at 210 kDa. Besides the COX2, COX5b, COX5c and COX6a it includes the subunits X1, X2 and X4 (Appendix S1, p. 5). COX6b, which was previously reported to be readily detached from Arabidopsis complex IV (Eubel et al., CITATION) was also identified, but is not part of the main complex IV cluster. COX1 and COX3, which are highly hydrophobic, were not identified. Subunit X6, which has also been identified as a plant homolog of the mammalian mitochondrial calcium uniporter regulator protein MCUR (see below section on mitochondrial calcium uniporter; Wagner et al., CITATION) is not in the complex IV cluster. Subunits X3 and X5 were not identified. In summary, only three of the six plant-specific complex IV subunits (X1, X2 and X4 according to Millar et al., CITATION) were confirmed. Yet, abundance profiles of other proteins perfectly align with the complex IV cluster (At4g14570, At4g00960 and At3g12150) and are candidates for further plant-specific subunits. Different complex IV-containing respiratory supercomplexes are visible at 700 and 1500–1700 kDa, but of low abundance, as are complex IV subcomplexes, which represent putative assembly intermediates. Subunits of complex V (the ATP synthase complex) cluster at 620 kDa. Additional clusters are visible at 300 kDa (the F1 and F0 parts of the ATP synthase complex). The clusters include subunits α, β, γ, δ and ε as well as subunits a, b, d, f, g, FAD, OSCP, ATP8 and the 6 kDa subunit (Appendix S1, p. 6). A large fraction of subunit g, which is involved in connecting two complexes to the dimeric form, is detached from complex V, which was reported previously (Eubel et al., CITATION). The c subunit, which is very hydrophobic, was not identified. Several other proteins are included in the complex V cluster. Their association with complex V needs to be clarified by further investigations. The respiratory chain of plant mitochondria includes several alternative oxidoreductases (Millar et al., CITATION). The alternative NADH dehydrogenases NDA1, NDA2, NDB1 and NDB2 cluster together with AOX1C (peak at approximately 150 kDa; Appendix S1, p. 7). AOX1A, AOX1B, AOX1D and NDC1 have a peak at a slightly smaller position (approximately 140 kDa). NDA1 and NDA2 additionally have a minor peak near 700 kDa, which has been described before (Rasmusson and Agius (CITATION). This suggests that the alternative electron transport proteins possibly form ‘alternative respirasomes’ which exist separately from the classical electron transport complexes. This spatial organization may have important implications on the regulation and partitioning of electron flux through classical versus alternative pathways. It was previously reported that transcripts encoding alternative oxidoreductases are co-expressed in plants, e.g. the genes encoding NDB2 and AOX1a (Rasmusson and Møller, CITATION). Several enzymes involved in the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle and related pathways also form part of protein complexes. Our complexome dataset indicates the following protein assemblies: oxoglutarate dehydrogenase (>3000 kDa, 150 kDa), malic enzyme (360 kDa), fumarase (190 kDa), subunits of the succinate dehydrogenase complex (complex II, 160 kDa), subunits of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (120 kDa/140 kDa/110 kDa), and citrate synthase (120 kDa) (Appendix S1, pp. 8a and 8b). The protein complexes represent homo- or heteromeric assemblies of proteins as discussed before (Klodmann et al., CITATION). Besides the TCA cycle enzymes, the mitochondrial matrix includes many enzymes involved in amino acid metabolism, most of them catalyzing catabolic reactions. The complexome data indicate presence of protein complexes for glutamate dehydrogenase (200 kDa), cystathionine beta lyase (160 kDa), delta-1-pyrroline-5-carboxylase dehydrogenase (160 kDa), serine hydroxymethyltransferase (150 kDa), cysteine desulfurase (150 kDa), proline dehydrogenase (130 kDa) and several others (Appendix S1, pp. 9a, 9b and 9c). The composition of most of these protein complexes is not well established and requires further investigation. The glycine decarboxylase system, which has been discussed to form a large protein complex (Oliver et al., CITATION; Douce et al., CITATION), is represented by separate subunits in our mitochondrial complexome fractions (Appendix S1, p. 10). We conclude that this system does either not form a protein complex or forms a complex of low stability. Dehydrogenases are involved in the TCA cycle, the respiratory chain and the amino acid metabolism. Further dehydrogenases are important for additional processes, such as detoxification reactions, taking place in mitochondria. Two mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenases (At3g48000 and At1g23800) form a complex of 200 kDa. They are involved in acetaldehyde and glycolaldehyde oxidation (Skibbe et al., CITATION). Formate dehydrogenase is part of a 130 kDa complex and a complex including glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase is found at 150 kDa (Appendix S1, pp. 11a and 11b). More than 30 different pentatricopeptide repeat (PPR) and tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) proteins are present in our complexome dataset, many of which are part of protein assemblies in the molecular mass range between 120 and 1000 kDa, e.g. At3g54980 (1000 kDa), At1g26460, At4g35850 and At5g12100 (300 kDa), At1g10270, At1g26460 and At4g35850 (160 kDa), At5g65560 and At5g12100 (150 kDa), At3g02490, At2g16880, At3g61520, At5g28460 and At5g15980 (140 kDa) and At3g02650 and At5g60960 (120 kDa) (Appendix S1, pp. 12a and 12b). It will be interesting to further investigate these complexes. Sequence specific RNA-binding is a feature of several PPR proteins, making members of the PPR family important factors in posttranscriptional regulation of gene expression in plant organelles. Their specific role in RNA editing may require trans-factors, and our complexome offers candidates for further investigations. While the specific functions of most of the detected PPRs has not yet been determined, At5g60960 (PNM1) has recently been found to be dual localized in the nucleus and the mitochondria (Hammani et al., CITATION). It was reported to interact with the nucleosome assembly protein 1 (NAP1) and the transcription factor TCP8 in the nucleus. In the mitochondria, PNM1 is essential for embryo development and associated with polysomes. Yet, no specific interacting mitochondrial proteins are currently known, making the 120 kDa complex an attractive starting point for future dissection. At1g10270 (glutamine-rich protein 23, GRP23), another PPR protein found in a complex of 160 kDa, has previously been described to be a nuclear regulator of gene expression by interacting with RNA polymerase II and essential for early embryo development (Ding et al., CITATION). The possibility of dual localization, that is, similar to PNM1, is supported by the observation of mitochondrial targeting in a later study (Narsai et al., CITATION) Several mitochondrial transporters form protein complexes. The recently discovered TatB homolog (At5g43680) present in the mitochondria of plants (Carrie et al., CITATION), which presumably interacts with a mitochondrially encoded TatC, was found to be part of a 530 kDa complex. The subunits of the pre-protein translocase of the outer mitochondrial membrane (the so-called TOM complex) peak at 280 kDa, which is in agreement with previous findings (Klodmann et al., CITATION). Subunits of the ‘sorting and assembly machinery of the outer mitochondrial membrane’ (the SAM complex) run at 460 kDa and at 1000 kDa on the 1D BN gel. These protein complexes include the SAM37 and SAM50 proteins (At2g19080, At5g05520), a DNAJ homolog (At2g35720) and probably further subunits. Two components of the putative plant mitochondrial calcium ion uniporter complex MCUC (the MCU homolog MCU2 (At1g57610) and MICU (At4g32060) were recently identified in an Arabidopsis mitochondrial fraction using MS/MS (Wagner et al., CITATION). MICU was shown to regulate mitochondrial calcium ion dynamics in vivo, while the MCU protein is one of six Arabidopsis homologs of MCU, a protein forming the pore of the channel complex in mammals (Stael et al., CITATION; Wagner et al., CITATION). Two MCU homologs were also detected in the potato mitochondrial proteome (Salvato et al., CITATION; Rao et al., CITATION), and a very recent functional characterization of one Arabidopsis MCU homolog (MCU1: At1g09575) showed channel activity in planar lipid bilayers and inhibition by MICU (Teardo et al., CITATION). In mammals MCU needs to assemble into a homo-tetrameric or homo-pentameric transmembrane complex to make up the pore, which needs to associate with regulatory proteins (incl. MICUs and mitochondrial calcium ion uniporter regulator, MCUR) to be a fully functional MCUC (Raffaello et al., CITATION; Oxenoid et al., CITATION). Two plant MCU homologs (MCU1 (At1g09575); MCU2 (At1g57610)) were found in the complexome dataset, both clustering together with a quantitative profile peak at 150 kDa. This provides important preliminary evidence that also plant MCU proteins form stable multimers. Given the molecular weight of individual plant MCU proteins of ~35 kDa, the complex mass of ~150 kDa may indicate a tetra- or pentamer if the detected complex contains MCU proteins only. MICU (At4g32060) showed profile peaks at distinct molecular weights, indicating that it was not physically associated with the MCU proteins under the conditions applied (Appendix S1, p. 13). The same was observed for the two Arabidopsis homologs of the regulatory protein MCUR (MCUR1 (At2g16460), which is identical to COX subunit X6, see above section on complex IV, and MCUR2 (At3g51090), both of which clustered with each other showing quantitative profile peaks at 140 and 370 kDa. From the highly similar profiles of both detected MCU proteins it is not possible to discriminate between a complex makeup as homo- and/or heteromer. Heteromeric MCU channel complexes could facilitate regulation of channel characteristics through modification of its composition. Presence of several different MCU proteins in plants may provide particularly rich options for permutation and fine tuning. This hypothesis deserves follow up in the future, along with targeted searches for the other MCU homologs. The aim of this study is to exemplify the power of complexome profiling in plants. The principle may be extended to specific tissues, cell types or preparations of different subcellular fractions in order to identify novel complexes and/or complex components on a broad scale. We further aim to provide a plant mitochondrial complexome dataset as a novel resource to the community. An online platform for searching the complexome database has been developed (https://complexomemap.de/at_mito_leaves) to optimize accessibility and to make custom analyses straightforward (Figure 7). Two different filtering methods are offered by the software: (1) highlighting the lines of one or more Arabidopsis accessions to visualize the heat map context of a protein, thereby evaluating its possible presence in a protein complex; and (2) filtering the heat map to include only the specified proteins of interest. In this mode, abundance profiles of distant areas of the heat map can be aligned, allowing the identification of possible interactions of the proteins of interest. It is beyond the scope of this article to describe all potential protein assemblies present in the complexome dataset. Instead we would like to stimulate further evaluation by the community. Hypotheses about novel protein complexes that can be extracted from the dataset should be tested by independent experimental strategies. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana plants (ecotype Columbia) were grown in a climate chamber under short-day conditions as described previously (8 h of light/16 h of dark, 22°C, 85 μmol sec−1 m−2 light and 65% humidity; Krüßel et al., CITATION). Plants were harvested after 8 weeks. Mitochondria from rosette leaves were purified by differential centrifugation and Percoll density gradient centrifugation following the protocol by Keech et al. (CITATION). Mitochondrial fractions were divided into aliquots containing 1 mg protein each and pelleted by centrifugation. For BN PAGE, freshly prepared mitochondrial pellets (1 mg mitochondrial protein) were resuspended in 100 μl digitonin solubilization buffer (30 mm HEPES, 150 mm potassium acetate, 10% [v/v] glycerol, and 5% [w/v] digitonin; protocol according to Klodmann et al., CITATION). BN PAGE was carried out according to Wittig et al., CITATION). Separation gels consisted of linear gradients of 4.5% to 16% polyacrylamide. On the resulting gels, proteins and protein complexes were separated in a molecular mass range of 50 to 3000 kDa. Lanes of the BN gels were either directly stained with colloidal Coomassie Blue (Neuhoff et al., CITATION) (for complexome analysis) or used for second gel dimensions (for generating 2D gel-based protein reference maps).
