!~ABS~! Calcium (Ca2+) signaling and dynamic reorganization of the cytoskeleton are essential processes for the coordination and control of plant cell shape and cell growth. Calmodulin (CaM) and closely related calmodulin-like (CML) polypeptides are principal sensors of Ca2+ signals. CaM/CMLs decode and relay information encrypted by the second messenger via differential interactions with a wide spectrum of targets to modulate their diverse biochemical activities. The plant-specific IQ67 DOMAIN (IQD) family emerged as possibly the largest class of CaM-interacting proteins with undefined molecular functions and biological roles. Here, we show that the 33 members of the IQD family in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) differentially localize, using green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged proteins, to multiple and distinct subcellular sites, including microtubule (MT) arrays, plasma membrane subdomains, and nuclear compartments. Intriguingly, the various IQD-specific localization patterns coincide with the subcellular patterns of IQD-dependent recruitment of CaM, suggesting that the diverse IQD members sequester Ca2+-CaM signaling modules to specific subcellular sites for precise regulation of Ca2+-dependent processes. Because MT localization is a hallmark of most IQD family members, we quantitatively analyzed GFP-labeled MT arrays in Nicotiana benthamiana cells transiently expressing GFP-IQD fusions and observed IQD-specific MT patterns, which point to a role of IQDs in MT organization and dynamics. Indeed, stable overexpression of select IQD proteins in Arabidopsis altered cellular MT orientation, cell shape, and organ morphology. Because IQDs share biochemical properties with scaffold proteins, we propose that IQD families provide an assortment of platform proteins for integrating CaM-dependent Ca2+ signaling at multiple cellular sites to regulate cell function, shape, and growth.
!~RES~! To gain insights into the cellular sites of IQD function, we studied the subcellular distribution of all 33 Arabidopsis IQD family members after transient expression in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves, which is a convenient system in which to monitor protein localization (CITATION). We expressed GFP-tagged IQDs under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter to facilitate their detection. The authentic GFP reporter was included as a reference, which uniformly labeled the cytoplasm and cell nucleus with the exception of its nucleolus (Fig. 1, bottom right). We confirmed the expression of all full-length IQD fusion proteins by immunoblot analysis using an anti-GFP antibody (Supplemental Fig. S1A). N-terminal GFP fusions of most IQD proteins were associated at least partially with cytoskeletal arrays (Fig. 1). Localization to the MT cytoskeleton was confirmed by coexpression with red fluorescent protein (RFP)-TUBULIN ALPHA5 (TUA5), a marker for MTs (CITATION), as shown for GFP-IQD1 (Fig. 1), GFP-IQD13, and GFP-IQD16 (Supplemental Fig. S1B). About half of the GFP-tagged IQD family members labeled the PM (e.g. IQD12, IQD22, and IQD25) or the nuclear envelope (e.g. IQD8 and IQD27). In addition, several GFP-IQD fusions localized to the nucleus (e.g. IQD10, IQD28, and IQD32), nucleolus (e.g. IQD3, IQD4, and IQD20), or distinct nuclear bodies (e.g. IQD6, IQD9, and IQD24; Fig. 1, insets). Their translocation into the nucleus is likely an active process because the size of most GFP-IQD fusions exceeds the exclusion limit (greater than 50–60 kD) of nuclear pores (CITATION), and most nucleus-localized IQD proteins contain predicted nuclear localization signals (Supplemental Table S1). The smallest family member, IQD20, lacks a nuclear localization signal; thus, its GFP fusion (38.7 kD) is capable of passive diffusion into the nucleus. [[FIGURE]] To validate the recorded subcellular localization patterns of N-terminal GFP-IQD fusion proteins, we selected six IQD members for independent localization studies, which represent the distinct localization patterns and the major phylogenetic clades of the Arabidopsis IQD family (i.e. IQD8, IQD14, IQD16, IQD20, IQD25, and IQD28; Fig. 1). We obtained similar results in the N. benthamiana system for the six selected C-terminal IQD-GFP fusion proteins, which we expressed under the control of either the CaMV 35S promoter (Fig. 2A) or the native IQD promoters (Fig. 2B). Transfection of Arabidopsis leaves with the corresponding Pro-35S:GFP-IQD constructs and analysis of subcellular GFP-IQD localization further supported the localization results (Fig. 2C). Thus, the subcellular localization of GFP-tagged IQDs is independent of GFP tag configuration, expression level, and experimental system. Expression under the control of native IQD promoters, however, resulted in weak fluorescence signals. In combination with in silico analyses (CITATION), which indicate very low IQD mRNA levels (Supplemental Fig. S1C), our data suggest that IQD gene expression correlates with low IQD protein abundance. In conclusion, our data provide solid support for the Arabidopsis IQD family being a novel class of CaMBPs with presumed functions at MTs, at the PM, and in nuclear compartments. [[FIGURE]] The targeting of several IQD proteins to MTs as well as to the PM prompted us to study in more detail the distribution of select IQDs displaying a prominent PM localization. Imaging of the upper surface of transiently transformed N. benthamiana epidermis cells revealed a nonuniform distribution of GFP-IQD proteins within the PM (Fig. 3A). IQD12 and IQD22 labeled filamentous structures that align along MTs, which is corroborated by coexpression with RFP-TUA5 (Fig. 3B). The accumulation of IQD12 and IQD22 in filamentous structures is abolished upon treatment with the MT-depolymerizing drug oryzalin (Fig. 3C). In addition, all four GFP-IQD fusion proteins mark distinct punctate structures (Fig. 3A). These patterns are reminiscent of membrane subdomains, which are largely immobile compartments within the PM (CITATION), and thought to serve as platforms of signal transduction (e.g. during immune signaling or polarized growth; CITATION; CITATION). We observed similar localization patterns for two PM subdomain marker proteins of the plant-specific REMORIN (Rem) family, Rem6.6 and Rem6.7 (CITATION), which we included as controls (Fig. 3A). The pattern of labeled PM domains differed and ranged from a more homogenous labeling (GFP-IQD12) to the decoration of distinct circular structures (GFP-IQD25 and GFP-Rem6.7) with an average size between ∼0.11 and 0.13 µm2 (Fig. 3, A and D). To assess the lateral stability of GFP-IQD-labeled PM domains, we performed time-lapse experiments and generated kymographs (Fig. 3, E and F). As shown for GFP-IQD25, the labeled domains remained stationary for at least 20 min (Fig. 3E, arrowheads). Similarly, PM domains labeled by the other GFP-IQD fusions were temporally stable, as indicated by continuous vertical lines in the kymographs (Fig. 3F). The high lateral stability of IQD-labeled domains together with the pattern of PM localization suggest that IQD proteins are novel components of PM subdomains in planta. [[FIGURE]] We generated transgenic Pro-35S:GFP-IQD25 lines to confirm PM localization in Arabidopsis. As observed in N. benthamiana leaf cells, GFP-IQD25 decorated the periphery of root cells in a punctate pattern (Fig. 4A). Our data are in agreement with work by CITATION, who reported the formation of PM subdomains in N. benthamiana and Arabidopsis. As expected, GFP-IQD25 fluorescence colocalized upon plasmolysis with the PM and not with the cell wall, which were stained with FM4-64 and propidium iodide (PI), respectively (Fig. 4B). PM localization of GFP-IQD25 was further corroborated by immunogold labeling using an anti-GFP antibody, which indicated enrichment of gold particles at the PM in tissue sections of root apices (Fig. 4, C and D). Interestingly, the shape and size of the rosette leaves were altered in plants overexpressing GFP-IQD25 or untagged IQD25 when compared with wild-type or GFP-expressing control lines, respectively (Fig. 4E). The cotyledons of IQD25-overexpressing plants also showed significant alterations in the shape of epidermal pavement cells (Fig. 4, F and G). However, we did not notice visible morphological changes in iqd25 loss-of-function lines. ProIQD25:GFP-GUS expression was detectable in the shoot apical meristem and in the youngest leaves but not in older parts of cotyledons and leaves (Supplemental Fig. S2, A–E). Thus, the observed phenotypes in Pro-35S:GFP-IQD25 and Pro-35S:IQD25 might be a result of ectopic expression. Alternatively, the lack of phenotypes in iqd25 mutants possibly points to a high degree of functional redundancy within the IQD family. [[FIGURE]] Because MT localization is a hallmark of the Arabidopsis IQD family (Fig. 1) and IQD overexpression alters plant development (CITATION; this study), we hypothesized that IQD proteins function in MT-dependent processes. To quantitatively record MT patterns, we adapted an approach used previously to measure actin structures in mammalian cells (CITATION). We imaged epidermal cell outlines in the red channel by PI staining or by the expression of an RFP-fused PM-localized protein, PLASMODESMATA-LOCATED PROTEIN1 (PDLP1)-RFP (CITATION), and traced GFP-IQD-decorated MT arrays in the green channel. Two-channel maximum projections of Z-stacks covering the upper half of the epidermal cell layer were analyzed, texture feature vectors were extracted from square windows based on local binary patterns (CITATION), and groups of MT patterns were defined by cluster analysis (Fig. 5A). The relative distribution of windows belonging to each group was determined for each individual cell. Pairwise distances between the 23 most strongly MT-associated GFP-IQD fusions were visualized in a heat map (Fig. 5B). To validate our approach, we tested the robustness and reliability of the tool using different window sizes (16 × 16 and 32 × 32) and by applying sliding windows of sizes 8 to 32. All samples showed the same trends irrespective of the window settings. Thus, we conclude that our computational pattern-analysis tool is suitable to efficiently and robustly quantify MT array patterns. To assess MT patterns more broadly, we generated a similarity network (Fig. 5C). Our analysis revealed high similarity between MT networks labeled by IQD members of phylogenetic groups II (IQD13 and IQD14, encoded by a sister gene pair), IIIb, and IV, with the exception of IQD11 and IQD28. A second cluster includes IQD7, IQD8 (encoded by a sister gene pair), and IQD6 (the most closely related member of group IIIa; CITATION). In general, we noticed a tendency of phylogenetically related IQDs to decorate similar MT patterns. Notably, MT patterns observed by the overexpression of GFP-tagged IQD11 and IQD16 differed from all others and potentially reflect specialized functions. [[FIGURE]] To test our pattern-analysis tool and study the functions of IQD proteins in Arabidopsis, we initially focused on IQD16 because our data indicated MT localization of IQD16 in a highly distinctive pattern (Figs. 1, 2, and 5, B and C). We did not observe phenotypic alterations for iqd16 T-DNA loss-of-function lines, even after careful examination of tissues in which ProIQD16:GFP-GUS expression is detectable (Supplemental Fig. S3, A–G). However, plants overexpressing IQD16 develop elongated aerial organs with significantly elongated cells (i.e. cotyledons, leaves, and hypocotyls) and display left-handed helical growth (Fig. 6, A–D). Phenotypic strength correlated with Pro-35S:IQD16 expression (Fig. 6E) and suggests IQD16 dosage-dependent effects on plant growth. GFP-IQD16 overexpression lines display similar phenotypes (Fig. 6, A–D), indicating the functionality of the fusion protein. Helical growth aberrations and altered leaf shape were reported for tomato sun lines (CITATION) and often are associated with defects in MT functions (CITATION; CITATION). Moreover, the growth defects are reminiscent of plants overexpressing LONGIFOLIA1/TON1 RECRUITING MOTIF2 (TRM2), which encodes a plant-specific MAP (CITATION; CITATION). Hence, the observed phenotypes point to roles of IQD16 in the regulation of MT arrays. [[FIGURE]] To analyze MT organization, we crossed the GFP-MAP4 marker (CITATION) into Pro-35S:IQD16 lines. When compared with the parental wild-type (GFP-MAP4) line, light-grown plants overexpressing IQD16 (GFP-MAP4) or GFP-IQD16 displayed significantly elongated cells (Fig. 6, F and G), and the increased cell length of IQD16 overexpression plants correlated with an altered orientation of cortical MTs (Fig. 6, H and I). Consistent with previous reports (CITATION), MTs in wild-type (GFP-MAP4) hypocotyl cells were distributed randomly. However, in IQD16 (GFP-MAP4) and GFP-IQD16-overexpressing lines, MTs decorated by the GFP reporter were aligned preferentially in oblique arrays with angles between 40° and 70° (Fig. 6I). Thus, our experiments show that IQD16 localizes to cortical MTs in Arabidopsis and impacts MT orientation and cell shape. We extended our analysis in Arabidopsis to validate the roles of additional IQD proteins at MTs (Fig. 7). We selected IQD11, which labeled MT patterns highly similar to IQD16 in the N. benthamiana system (Fig. 5), and IQD14, which decorates MT arrays in N. benthamiana (Fig. 1) and Arabidopsis (Fig. 2) in patterns different from IQD11 and IQD16 (Fig. 5). Consistent with the high similarity of MT patterns upon overexpression of GFP-IQD16 and yellow fluorescent protein (YFP)-IQD11 in N. benthamiana (Fig. 5), the phenotypes of transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing IQD11 or YFP-IQD11 resembled those of IQD16 overexpression lines (Figs. 6 and 7A; Supplemental Fig. S4). YFP-IQD11 labeled MT arrays in patterns similar to GFP-IQD16 in epidermal hypocotyl cells of transgenic Arabidopsis seedlings (Fig. 7, B and C), and overexpression of YFP-IQD11 induced the elongation of epidermis pavement cells (Fig. 7, D and E). We observed distinct phenotypes upon overexpression (Pro-35S) of IQD14 or GFP-IQD14 (Fig. 7A; Supplemental Fig. S4A). Transgenic plants displayed strongly induced organ twisting but no changes in leaf elongation (Fig. 7, A, D, and E). Similar phenotypes were reported for tortifolia and spiral mutants (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Helical growth defects commonly correlate with an increased transverse alignment of MTs (CITATION), which are visible upon the overexpression of YFP-IQD11, GFP-IQD14, and GFP-IQD16 (Figs. 6I and 7C). We confirmed the MT specificity of GFP-IQD16, YFP-IQD11, and GFP-IQD14 by the treatment of transgenic Arabidopsis seedlings with the MT-depolymerizing drug oryzalin (Fig. 7B, bottom row). We included transgenic GFP-MAP4 (CITATION) and GFP-ABD2 (CITATION; CITATION) lines as controls for the MT and actin cytoskeleton, respectively. Oryzalin treatment efficiently disrupted MT networks but had no effect on the actin cytoskeleton. Analysis of ProIQD11:GFP-GUS and ProIQD14:GFP-GUS expression revealed IQD11 and IQD14 promoter activity in the hypocotyl, cotyledons, leaf tissues, and petioles (Supplemental Fig. S4B). Thus, the phenotypes in combination with the observed MT localization suggest that elevated levels of IQD proteins may have diverse effects on MT organization and cell growth control in tissues with endogenous IQD expression. Moreover, our pattern-analysis tool proves to be a useful resource for the study of MT organization in complex shaped cells and provides, to our knowledge, the first experimental evidence for roles of IQD proteins in the regulation of MT networks and cell shape. [[FIGURE]] The differential subcellular localization of IQD family members (Fig. 1) prompted us to test whether IQD proteins recruit CaM to diverse subcellular sites. We selected eight IQD proteins representing the phylogenetic clades and different localization patterns of the Arabidopsis IQD family and performed bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assays, which detect protein-protein interactions in planta with subcellular resolution (CITATION; CITATION). Coexpression in N. benthamiana of nYFP-IQD1 and cYFP-CaM2 reconstitutes YFP fluorescence at MTs and in the nucle(ol)us (Fig. 8), which is highly similar to the observed GFP-IQD1 localization (Fig. 1). Similarly, cYFP-CaM2 interacted with nYFP fusions of IQD8, IQD13, IQD16, and IQD32 at MTs. For nYFP-IQD20 and nYFP-IQD25, BiFC signals were detected in distinct PM subdomains, and nYFP-IQD33 interacted with cYFP-CaM2 in the nucleus (Fig. 8, insets). nYFP-TRM1 (CITATION) served as a negative control, and the recovery of YFP fluorescence was not detectable with cYFP-CaM2, which confirmed the specificity of the BiFC assay. We independently verified the physical in vivo interactions of CaM2 and select IQDs by coexpression studies, which revealed GFP-IQD fusion protein-dependent relocalization of RFP-CaM2 (Supplemental Fig. S5). When coexpressed with GFP alone, RFP-CaM2 accumulated in the cytosol and nucleus, whereas coexpression with GFP-IQD1 induced the recruitment of RFP-CaM2 to MTs and the nucleolus, as reported previously (CITATION). In addition, coexpression with GFP-IQD8, GFP-IQD13, GFP-IQD16, or GFP-IQD32 caused the recruitment of RFP-CaM2 to MTs, and relocalization of RFP-CaM2 to the PM was evident upon coexpression with GFP-IQD25. Thus, IQD proteins recruit CaM2 and possibly other CaM/CMLs to MTs, PM subdomains, and nuclear compartments. Interaction of IQD proteins with CaM2 did not abolish IQD localization to MTs or the PM, suggesting that subcellular targeting of IQD proteins is independent of CaM recruitment. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Nicotiana benthamiana plants were grown in a greenhouse at 22°C to 24°C under long-day conditions (16 h of light/8 h of dark). Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) ecotype Col-0 seeds were originally obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. Seeds of iqd16-2 (SALK_053223), iqd25-1 (SALK_058876), and iqd25-2 (SALK_148613) T-DNA lines were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (CITATION). To visualize MT arrays, transgenic Arabidopsis seedlings expressing a GFP fusion of the MT-binding domain of mouse MAP4 under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter were analyzed (CITATION). For growth under semicontrolled conditions, plants were stratified at 4°C for 2 d and cultivated under long-day conditions as described above. For sterile cultivation, Arabidopsis seeds were surface sterilized with chlorine gas and, after 2 d of stratification, grown vertically on square plates containing Arabidopsis salt medium and 1% (w/v) agar with cycles of 16 h of light and 8 h of dark (CITATION). DNA sequence information of IQDs, PDLP1, TRM1, Rem6.6, Rem6.7, and TUA5 was obtained from The Arabidopsis Information Resource. Open reading frames were amplified from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center or RIKEN cDNA clones or from cDNA of Arabidopsis Col-0 seedlings using gene-specific primers (Supplemental Tables S2 and Table S4). Full-length genomic loci and upstream promoter sequences were amplified from genomic DNA of Arabidopsis Col-0. Amplicons were ligated into Gateway-compatible entry or donor vectors (Supplemental Table S2), and insert fidelity was verified by DNA sequencing. The generation of CaM2 ENTR plasmid was described by CITATION. Inserted sequences were mobilized into pB7WGF2, pB7WGY2 (CITATION), or pGWB455 (CITATION) for the expression of the N-terminal GFP, YFP, or RFP fusion under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter, respectively, or into pB7FWG or pB7FWG2 (CITATION) for the expression of C-terminal GFP fusions under the control of the native promoter sequences or 35S promoter, respectively. For BiFC assays, coding sequences were mobilized into pDEST-VYNE(R)GW and pDEST-VYCE(R)GW to generate N-terminal fusions with the N- and C-terminal halves of VENUS, respectively. To generate ProIQD:GFP-GUS reporter constructs, the promoter region was mobilized into pBGWFS7 (CITATION). For transient expression assays in N. benthamiana, leaves were coinfiltrated with Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 pMP90RK harboring plasmids and the silencing suppressor p19 in a 1:1 ratio. Bacterial cultures were adjusted to an optical density at 600 nm of 0.5 using infiltration buffer, and N. benthamiana leaves were pressure infiltrated through the abaxial epidermis. A. tumefaciens-mediated transient transformation of Arabidopsis was performed in leaves of 4-week-old plants grown under short-day conditions according to the protocol described by CITATION. For stable transformation of Arabidopsis, the floral dip technique was used (CITATION), and eight to 24 independent transgenic lines were identified in the T1 generation by Basta selection for each construct analyzed. To verify single-copy transgene insertion, T2 transgenic lines were analyzed for a 3:1 segregation ratio (Basta). GFP fluorescence and GUS expression were analyzed in homozygous T3 plants of two to four lines showing representative GUS expression patterns or growth phenotypes. Rosette leaves from three individual 4-week-old plants were pooled, and total RNA was extracted from approximately 100 mg of tissue using the RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen). After DNase treatment, first-strand cDNA was synthesized from 4 µg of RNA using oligo(dT) primers with the Revert Aid First Strand cDNA synthesis kit (Thermo Fisher). Quantitative real-time PCR was performed on the 7500 Fast Real-Time PCR system using Fast SYBR Green master mix (Applied Biosystems) with 2 µL of 1:10 diluted cDNA. The relative expression of IQD16 was calculated relative to PP2A. For RT-PCR analyses, RNA was isolated from 5-d-old seedlings grown under sterile conditions, and cDNA was synthesized from 5 µg of total RNA as described above. ACTIN2 was amplified from 2 µL of 1:10 diluted cDNA, and 2 µL of undiluted cDNA was used as a template for the amplification of IQD16 and IQD25. Primers used for amplification and their sequences are given in Supplemental Tables S3 and S4. For GUS staining, sample tissues were fixed in 80% (v/v) ice-cold acetone for 30 min and incubated for 2 to 8 h in GUS staining solution [50 mm sodium phosphate, pH 7.2, 0.5 mm K3Fe(CN)6, 0.5 mm K4Fe(CN)6, 2 mm 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-glucuronic acid, 10 mm EDTA, and 0.1% (v/v) Triton X-100] at 37°C. Imaging of GUS staining patterns was performed using a Zeiss Axioplan 2 microscope. Unless stated otherwise, imaging was performed with a Zeiss LSM 700 inverted microscope using a 40× water-immersion objective. The excitation wavelength for GFP and YFP was 488 nm; emission was detected between 493 and 555 nm. RFP was excited with a 555-nm laser, and emission was detected using a long-pass filter (582–700). For colocalization assays, images were obtained in the sequential mode. Root cells of transgenic Arabidopsis seedlings were plasmolyzed by treatment with 150 mm NaCl as described by CITATION. For PI or FM4-64 staining, cells were incubated for 1 to 5 min in 10 µm PI or 50 µm Synapto-Red C2, respectively. Seedlings were imaged after two wash steps in sterile water. For the analysis of epidermis pavement cell shapes, single optical sections of the adaxial side of FM4-64-stained cotyledons were acquired with a 20× objective. Surface images of epidermal cells were acquired with a 63× water-immersion objective. BiFC assays were carried out with a Zeiss LSM 710 inverted microscope according to the protocol described by CITATION. Imaging was performed with identical laser settings for all samples, and emission spectra of reconstituted fluorescence were recorded by lambda scan. Oryzalin treatments were performed as described by CITATION. Briefly, a 2 mm stock solution of oryzalin was prepared in dimethyl sulfoxide. N. benthamiana leaf discs were incubated in an aqueous solution of 50 µm oryzalin for up to 90 min. For treatment of Arabidopsis seedlings, plants were incubated in a final concentration of 20 µm oryzalin for 1 to 3 h. For semiautomatic segmentation, cell outlines were labeled in the red channel by PI staining or by expressing PM-localized RFP-PDLP1 (CITATION). In maximum projections, cell outlines appear as thin vessel-like structures with locally varying contrast. The contrast was optimized by smoothing of the image with a Gaussian filter (σ = 1) and applying a Mexican hat filter in 18 steps of 10° to emphasize vessel-like structures. The resulting images containing the maximal filter response for each pixel were binarized by local Niblack thresholding as implemented in MiToBo (CITATION). Subsequently, postprocessing steps were applied to the binary images (i.e. component labeling, exclusion of too-small components, and skeletonization), which allowed the extraction of large parts of the cell boundaries. Remaining gaps were corrected by manual postprocessing, and cells exceeding the image border were excluded manually. Subsequently, texture analysis techniques were applied to automatically characterize MT organization as stated in the result section of the main text (see Fig. 5). The feature vectors of all cells were jointly clustered applying k means. For each cell, the ratio of windows belonging to the different k clusters was calculated, which results in a k dimensional cluster distribution vector. Each cluster refers to a specific structural pattern appearing in the cells; hence, each vector can be interpreted as a probability density distribution of these patterns appearing in the corresponding cell. From the set of vectors, pairwise distances or distances between average vectors for each cell line were extracted and visualized in heat maps or adjacency networks (Fig. 3, A and B). The plots shown in this study were generated by applying nonoverlapping windows with a size of 16 × 16 pixels from which rotation invariant local binary patterns were extracted. For clustering, k was set to 10 and Euclidean distances were used. These parameters were empirically determined in prestudies that revealed that changing of parameters (i.e. window size and sliding windows) did not affect the detected global tendencies. In total, the analysis was based on 130 images containing 184 cells. For each IQD family member, five to 14 individual cells were analyzed. Networks were visualized with Cytoscape (CITATION). To assess the lateral mobility of membrane subdomains, stacks of 10 to 12 images were acquired over 20 min in intervals of 2 min. Lateral shift of stacks was corrected via the Fiji plugin Stackreg (CITATION). Kymographs were generated with the Fiji command Reslice using a line width of 12. Quantification of subdomains was performed with Fiji. Images were background subtracted (rolling ball, 70 pixels). The radius was set according to the heuristically determined maximal size of objects of interest. Dot structures were detected with the wavelet-based particle detector (CITATION) included in the MiToBo toolbox (jmin = 3, jmax = 5, scale interval of s = 2). The correlation threshold was fixed to t = 0.6, and regions with sizes between 100 and 1,750 pixels were analyzed to calculate average domain sizes. Epidermis pavement cell shape was analyzed in cotyledons of 5-d-old seedlings grown sterile under long-day conditions. Cell walls were visualized by PI staining. Cell outlines were labeled in single optical sections of epidermis pavement cells with Fiji, and margin roughness and eccentricity were calculated as measures of (non)smoothness of the contour and cellular elongation, respectively. As a measure of cell shape (ir)regularity, first an average angle of tangent orientation changes is computed along the cell contour based on tangent orientations of pairs of adjacent contour points. Next, the deviation of the calculated angle from the angle expected for a perfect circle with an equal number of sampling points is calculated, referred to as margin roughness. A higher margin roughness value corresponds to a higher degree of nonsmoothness and reflects the extent of cellular lobing. Eccentricity is defined as the ratio between the extension of a region along its main axis and along the corresponding perpendicular axis. The extension along each axis is extracted from second-order central moments of the cell region. An almost circular region has an eccentricity value of 0, which increases with increasing elongation. For ultrastructural localization of GFP-tagged proteins, root tips were transferred into aluminum planchettes and high-pressure frozen with an HPM 10 apparatus (Bal-Tec). Subsequently, the material was cryosubstituted in 0.25% (v/v) glutaraldehyde (Sigma) and 0.1% (w/v) uranyl acetate (Chemapol) in acetone for 2 d at −80°C using cryosubstitution equipment (FSU; Bal-Tec). This was followed by embedding in HM20 (Polysciences Europe) at −20°C. For immunolabeling of ultrathin sections, we used a polyclonal anti-GFP antibody (600-101-215; Rockland) detected by a rabbit anti-goat secondary antibody conjugated with 10-nm gold (G 5527; Sigma). Sections were poststained with uranyl acetate and lead citrate in an EM-Stain apparatus (Leica) and subsequently observed with an EM 900 transmission electron microscope (Carl Zeiss Microscopy). Micrographs were taken with the Variospeed SSCCD (TRS). Statistical analysis was performed in R (version 3.2.1) by one-way ANOVA with Tukey’s honestly significant difference test. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers At3g09710 (IQD1), At5g03040 (IQD2), At3g52290 (IQD3), At2g26410 (IQD4), At3g22190 (IQD5), At2g26180 (IQD6), At1g17480 (IQD7), At1g72670 (IQD8), At2g33990 (IQD9), At3g15050 (IQD10), At5g13460 (IQD11), At5g03960 (IQD12), At3g59690 (IQD13), At2g43680 (IQD14), At3g49380 (IQD15), At4g10640 (IQD16), At4g00820 (IQD17), At1g01110 (IQD18), At4g14750 (IQD19), At3g51380 (IQD20), At3g49260 (IQD21), At4g23060 (IQD22), At5g62070 (IQD23), At5g07240 (IQD24), At4g29150 (IQD25), At3g16490 (IQD26), At1g51960 (IQD27), At1g14380 (IQD28), At2g02790 (IQD29), At1g18840 (IQD30), At1g74690 (IQD31), At1g19870 (IQD32), At5g35670 (IQD33), At5g19780 (TUA5), At5g43980 (PDLP1), At3g02170 (TRM1), At1g13920 (Rem6.6), At5g61280 (Rem6.7), At3g18780 (ACTIN2), At1g13320 (PP2Ac), At2g41110 (CaM2). The following supplemental materials are available. Supplemental Figure S1. Expression analysis and subcellular localization of Arabidopsis IQD genes. Supplemental Figure S2. Phenotypes of iqd25 mutant lines and expression analysis of ProIQD25::GFP-GUS. Supplemental Figure S3. Phenotypes of iqd16 lines and expression analysis of ProIQD16::GFP-GUS. Supplemental Figure S4. Expression analysis of IQD11 and IQD14 overexpression lines and of ProIQD11:GFP-GUS and ProIQD14:GFP-GUS lines. Supplemental Figure S5. Coexpression assays of GFP-IQD fusions with RFP-CaM2. Supplemental Figure S6. Predicted properties of Arabidopsis IQD proteins. Supplemental Table S1. Prediction of nuclear localization signals, lipidation sites, and signal peptides in Arabidopsis IQD proteins. Supplemental Table S2. Gene identifiers and plasmids. Supplemental Table S3. Primer combinations used for quantitative PCR, RT-PCR, and genotyping. Supplemental Table S4. Primer sequences.
