!~ABS~! Enhancement of root hair development in response to phosphate (Pi) deficit has been reported extensively. Root hairs are involved in major root functions such as the absorption of water, acquisition of nutrients and secretion of organic acids and enzymes. Individual root hair cells maintain these functions and appropriate structure under various physiological conditions. We carried out a study to identify protein(s) which maintain the structure and function of root hairs, and identified a protein (SEED AND ROOT HAIR PROTECTIVE PROTEIN, SRPP) that was induced in root hairs under Pi-deficient conditions. Promoter assay and mRNA quantification revealed that SRPP was expressed in root hairs and seeds. A knockout mutant, srpp-1, consistently displayed defects in root hairs and seeds. Root hairs in srpp-1 were short and the phenotypes observed under Pi-deficient conditions were also detected in ethylene-treated srpp-1 plants. Propidium iodide stained most root hairs of srpp-1 grown under Pi-deficient conditions, suggesting cell death. In addition to root hairs, most srpp-1 seeds were withered and their embryos were dead. SRPP tagged with green fluorescent protein was detected in the cell wall. Electron microscopy showed abnormal morphology of the cell wall. Wild-type phenotypes were restored when the SRPP gene was expressed in srpp-1. These data strongly suggest that SRPP contributes to the construction of robust cell walls, whereby it plays a key role in the development of root hairs and seeds.
!~RES~! The root-hair less NR23 line provides valuable information for identification of root hair-specific components by comparison with the wild-type roots, because the NR23 line forms no root hairs under any conditions in any regions of the roots. We performed proteomic analysis of the crude membrane fractions from the roots of the NR23 line (CITATION, CITATION). Proteomic profiles of Col-0 and NR23 grown under standard and Pi-deficient conditions were compared. A protein with 165 residues, SRPP, was identified only in Col-0 under Pi-deficient conditions (Supplementary Fig. S1). The gene encoding this protein, RHS13, has been reported as a root hair-specific gene from the results of a microarray analysis (CITATION). This study revealed that the RHS13/SRPP protein is present in root hairs and was increased markedly under Pi-deficient conditions. We also confirmed the induction of the transcriptional level of SRPP by Pi deficiency (Supplementary Fig. S2A). SRPP transcripts were increased about three times in No-0 under Pi-deficient conditions. Furthermore, we expressed a construct containing SRPP linked with GFP under the control of its own promoter. We observed roots of the T2 generation by confocal laser-scanning microscopy (CLSM) and detected GFP fluorescence in root hairs only under Pi-deficient conditions (Supplementary Fig. S2B−D). This observation is consistent with the results of the proteomic analysis, and suggests that SRPP may play a critical role under Pi deficiency. SRPP transcripts were detected clearly in roots and faintly in siliques of wild-type plants (Fig. 1A). We further investigated the tissue specificity of SRPP expression using promoter::GUS analysis. GUS (β-glucuronidase) activity was detected in roots but not in shoots grown under normal conditions (Fig. 1B, left; Fig. 1C). In particular, root tips and elongating regions of the primary and lateral roots showed high GUS activity. A magnified view revealed high expression in root hairs and collet hairs (Fig. 1D). Furthermore, plants cultivated under Pi-deficient conditions seemed to have higher GUS activity in roots (Fig. 1B, right).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Next, examination of reproductive organs revealed GUS activity in fruits and anthers (Fig. 1E–G; Supplementary Fig. S3). The GUS activity was detected in the pericarps and receptacles during maturation of siliques (Fig. 1E). Then we stained fruits, from which pericarps were removed, and detected significant activity in the embryo, funiculus and seed coat in siliques (Fig. 1F). For the embryonic stage, the GUS signal was detected from the initial globular to mature stages (Fig. 1F, G). In seed coats, the signal was detected in the transparent inner integument (Fig. 1G). We also detected the GUS activity in anthers, and the GUS signal in young anthers was found to be stronger than in mature anthers (Supplementary Fig. S3). No detection of SRPP protein or green fluorescence of SRPP–GFP in plants grown under normal conditions is inconsistent with the observations of mRNA quantification and promoter::GUS analysis. This may be due to a slow translation rate and/or rapid degradation of SRPP under normal conditions. We characterized an SRPP loss-of-function mutant to investigate the physiological roles of SRPP. The srpp-1 mutant line of Arabidopsis thaliana (strain Nossen-0, No-0) has a transposon insertion in the first exon of SRPP (Supplementary Fig. S4A). We used srpp-1 as a functionally defective mutant of SRPP, because no SRPP transcripts were detected in this mutant plant (Fig. 1A; Supplementary Fig. S2A). The mutant srpp-1 grew normally and there was no difference in the primary root length or shoot fresh weight between No-0 and srpp-1 (Supplementary Fig. S4B, C). Also, the srpp-1 mutant grown under normal conditions showed no difference in the root hair length compared with No-0 (Fig. 2A).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In contrast to results found under normal conditions, the length of primary roots of srpp-1 was 27% shorter than those of No-0 when grown under Pi-deficient conditions for 28 d (Fig. 2B). It is known that the number and length of root hairs in various plants are increased markedly under Pi-deficient conditions (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). Under Pi-deficient conditions, SRPP expression was increased and detected in root hairs as mentioned above. Thus, we assumed that SRPP is involved in the physiological processes that promote the development and elongation of root hairs. Then, we compared the length of root hairs of No-0 and srpp-1 under Pi-deficient conditions. The root hair length reached a maximum at 3 mm from the root tip in both lines (Supplementary Fig. S5). The average length of mature root hairs of No-0 was 0.8 mm. The srpp-1 root hairs (0.5 mm in length) were 36% shorter than the No-0 root hairs (Fig. 2A). There was no marked difference in the distribution of root hair density (data not shown). In addition to the less pronounced enhancement of root hair elongation in srpp-1, bent and drooping root hairs were frequently observed at the upper regions of 15 mm and farther from the root tip (Fig. 2C). For confirmation, we introduced the SRPP gene into the srpp-1 background under the control of the SRPP promoter. In five independent complementation lines, under Pi-deficient conditions, the root hair length, primary root length and shoot fresh weight were recovered to the values of No-0 (Supplementary Fig. S6A, C, D). The number of bent or drooping root hairs in these complementation lines was also decreased (Supplementary Fig. S6B). The results suggest that the phenotypes observed in srpp-1 under Pi-deficient conditions were caused by the lack of a functional SRPP gene. The above-mentioned results led us to investigate which physiological elements of Pi-deficient conditions or emergent elongation of root hairs are related directly to the induction and role of SRPP. If SRPP is tightly related to the emergent elongation of root hairs, the phenotype should be observed regardless of Pi availability. Therefore, we attempted to compare the root hairs of No-0 and srpp-1 plants after ethylene treatment, which is known to enhance the formation and elongation of root hairs (CITATION, CITATION). After ethylene treatment, the length of mature root hairs of srpp-1 was 29% shorter than that of root hairs of No-0 (Supplementary Fig. S7A). Furthermore, most root hairs at the upper 15 mm region from the root tip were bent, a phenotype mimicking root hairs grown under Pi-deficient conditions (Supplementary Fig. S7B). These results suggested that SRPP is somehow involved in elongation and maintenance of the structure of root hairs, which are emergently elongated. Roots of No-0 and srpp-1 were stained with propidium iodide (PI), which is a membrane-impermeable fluorescent dye that is used for cell wall staining and that also allows the distinction between live and dead cells. Roots and root hairs of both No-0 and srpp-1 were normal under Pi-sufficient conditions, since only cell walls were PI stained (Fig. 2D). While almost all the root hair cells of srpp-1 absorbed the dye under Pi-deficient conditions, most of the No-0 root hair cells did not (Fig. 2E). This result indicated that necrosis occurs in root hairs of srpp-1 under Pi-deficient conditions. Careful observation of phenotype during the whole plant life cycle revealed that srpp-1 seeds are dark brown and withered, even when collected from plants cultivated under standard conditions (Fig. 3A). To gain further insights, we observed srpp-1 seeds using scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and found the following phenotypes: (i) the seeds were withered; (ii) the seed surface was hollowed; and (iii) the surface structure of polygonal epidermal cells was altered significantly (Fig. 3B). Then, we removed the seed coats and observed embryos. All embryos of No-0 had a normal shape and almost equal size (the major axis, approximately 0.5 mm). In contrast, embryos of withered srpp-1 seeds were small and their size was variable (Fig. 3C), while a fraction of srpp-1 seeds were not withered and their embryos were comparable in size and shape with those of No-0. In addition, cells of embryos were well stained with PI, indicating that most cells of the embryo died in the withered srpp-1 seeds (Fig. 3D). These results suggest that SRPP is required for normal embryonic development.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Furthermore, the typical phenotypes of srpp-1 seeds were clearly compensated for by introducing SRPP. When No-0, srpp-1 and five complementation lines were cultivated side by side under the same conditions, there were no withered seeds in complementation lines 1 and 2 (hereinafter referred to as comp1 and comp2; Supplementary Fig. S8). The ratios of withered seeds were <10% in comp3, comp4 and comp5. Together, these results indicated that the withered seed phenotype was also due to the lack of SRPP. Seeds are composed of maternal tissues and new tissues made after fertilization. While the seed coat and pericarps are maternal tissues, the embryo is a hybrid tissue. We analyzed characteristics of seeds obtained by cross-breeding No-0 and srpp-1 to investigate the tissues in which SRPP functions. If a seed phenotype depends directly on its mother (pistil), it means that SRPP plays a very important role in mother tissues and vice versa. We crossed No-0 and srpp-1, sowed the obtained F1 seeds, and estimated the germination rate (Fig. 4A). Prior to evaluation, we extracted the genomic DNA from seedlings and confirmed that they were heterozygous for SRPP. When No-0 was used as the mother plant for crossing, the average germination rate was 70%. Surprisingly, when srpp-1 was used as the mother plant, the germination rate was 4% (Fig. 4B). The above results indicated clearly that expression of SRPP in maternal tissues (pericarps and seed coats) is critical for seed formation. When the mother plant was No-0, the germination rate (70%) was lower than that of No-0, suggesting that SRPP is important for seed formation, even in the hybrid tissue of the embryo.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] As mentioned above, we expressed SRPP linked with GFP under the control of its own promoter. We observed roots of the T2 generation by CLSM and detected GFP fluorescence in root hairs (Fig. 5A). Additionally, the SRPP–GFP introduced into srpp-1 complemented the srpp-1 phenotypes shown in root hairs and seeds. This indicates that SRPP–GFP expressed in plants shows normal functions (Supplementary Fig. S9A, B). Importantly, the SRPP–GFP signal was detected only under Pi-deficient conditions (Supplementary Fig. S2). The fluorescence was detected in cell walls or plasma membranes (Fig. 5A, B). After plasmolysis, the signal was detected in part of the cell wall, but not in the plasma membrane (Fig. 5C, D). Also, we detected the fluorescence in the cell wall of the basal part (not at the tip) of the root hair at an early stage of elongation (Fig. 5E, F). Although the fluorescence was not detected in the root hairs at the bulge-forming stage (Supplementary Fig. S9C), the fluorescence was clearly detected in the basal and middle regions at the elongation stage (Supplementary Fig. S9D, E). Finally, a clear signal was detected through the root hairs including the tips at the mature stage (Supplementary Fig. S9F).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The localization of SRPP to the cell wall led us to examine the structure of the embryo cell wall in withered srpp-1 seeds by transmission electron microscopy (TEM; Fig. 5G–J). While No-0 embryos had well-balanced polygons (Fig. 5G, I), the cell walls in the srpp-1 embryos were uneven and the cell shape was distorted (Fig. 5H, J). The cell wall of srpp-1 was thicker than that of No-0 (Fig. 5K) and the structure of the cell wall was wavy (Fig. 5H, J). The cell wall showed marked hypertrophy especially at the point where three cells meet.
!~MM~! Seeds of A. thaliana (strain No-0) and the loss-of-function mutant srpp-1 (RATM13-5238-1; Supplementary Fig. S4A) were provided by the Riken Bioresource Center (Tsukuba). The srpp-1 mutant line was confirmed to be homozygous by genotyping using SRPP-specific primers (5′-CACCCGCTGGTTTACCAATCATA-3′ and 5′-GCATTTGGTCACTGTCCTTCCTG-3′), and a primer specific to the G-edge of a transposon (5′-TACCTCGGGTTCGAAATCGAT-3′). The seeds were surface-sterilized and sown on sterile gel plates containing half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) salt mixture, 2.5 mM MES-KOH (pH 5.7), 1% (w/v) sucrose and 1.2% Ina agar (Funakoshi) (MS plates). Seed specimens were placed in darkness at 4°C for 3 d, and then moved to a growth chamber at 22°C under long-day conditions (light/dark regime of 16 h/8 h, cool-white lamps, 80–110 µmol m–2 s–1). A modified culture medium of Hoagland medium not supplemented with Pi was prepared to evaluate the effect on the plant growth under Pi-deficient conditions. For SRPPp::SRPP construction, the region at –1,951 to +867 of SRPP was amplified from A. thaliana (strain, No-0) genomic DNA using KOD FX enzymes (Toyobo) with the pair of oligonucleotides (Supplementary Table S1). The amplified sequence was inserted into an entry vector using a TOPO cloning reaction kit (Invitrogen) and then subcloned into a pGWB401 vector (SRPPp::SRPP/pGWB401) by LR reaction using Gateway LR Clonase II Enzyme Mix (Invitrogen). For SRPPp::GUS construction, the region at –1,951 to +21 of SRPP in genomic DNA was inserted into the pGWB433 vector (SRPPp::GUS/pGWB433). For SRPP–GFP construction, the region at –1,951 to +611 of SRPP in genomic DNA was inserted into the pGWB604 vector (SRPPp::SRPP-GFP/pGWB604) and the pGWB404m vector (SRPPp::SRPP-GFP/pGWB404m), which included a sequence of the monomer-type GFP (CITATION). The prepared constructs (SRPPp::SRPP/pGWB401, SRPPp::GUS/pGWB433, SRPPp::SRPP-GFP/pGWB604 and SRPPp::SRPP-GFP/pGWB404m) were introduced into the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101::PM90 by electroporation and used to transform A. thaliana plants using the floral dip method (CITATION). SRPPp::SRPP/pGWB401 and SRPPp::SRPP-GFP/pGWB604 were introduced into the non-functional line srpp-1. SRPPp::GUS/pGWB433 and SRPPp::SRPP-GFP/pGWB404m were introduced into No-0. After selection with 10 mg ml–1 BASTA or 50 mg ml–1 kanamycin, multiple T2 heterozygous or T3 homozygous lines were used for each experiment. Total RNA fractions were prepared from 2-week-old plants (shoot and root) and 6-week-old plants (silique) using a QIA shredder and RNeasy Mini kit (Qiagen). RNA (0.5 µg) was converted into cDNA using a ReverTra Ace qPCR RT Master Mix with gDNA Remover (Toyobo). The primer sets used for the RT–PCR were ATGGAGTCTTCAAGTCCCCAC (Fw) and CCGGAAGCATTCTTAGAATCTG (Rv) for SRPP, and CTGATGTTGCAGCCTTTGCA (Fw) and TTTGCCTTCCATCCCGAA (Rv) for UBQ10. T3SRPPp::GUS/pGWB433 transformants were assayed for GUS activity. The seedlings, siliques and seeds were stained with a GUS staining solution containing 0.5 mg ml–1 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-glucuronide, 0.5 mM K3Fe(CN)6, 0.5 mM K4Fe(CN)6 and 0.3% (w/v) Triton X-100. Seedlings at 1 and 3 weeks old were incubated in the solution at 37°C for 2 and 3 h, respectively. Siliques were cut or the valve was removed, they were infiltrated with the solution under a vacuum for 10 min, and then incubated at 37°C for 24 h. The embryos and seed coats of mature seeds were separated, put into different microtubes, infiltrated with the solution under vacuum for 10 min and then incubated at 37°C for 24 h. Seeds of T2 lines, which contained the SRPP–GFP fusion protein under the control of the SRPP promoter, were grown on MS plates containing kanamycin for 11 d, and then grown on Hoagland plates with or without Pi for 6 d. Observations were collected using an upright FV1000-D confocal laser-scanning microscope (Olympus) (CITATION). Excitation wavelength and transmission range for emission were 488 and 500–560 nm, respectively. The images were obtained using Olympus Fluoview software and an UPLSAPO × 10 objective lens (Olympus). Root hair morphology was observed using a BX61 optical microscope (Olympus) equipped with a DP70 CCD camera (Olympus) and an SZ61stereoscope (Olympus). Root hair length was measured from photomicrographs. The free software package ImageJ (http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/) was used for the measurement of root hair length. We observed root hairs and embryos using an FV1000 confocal laser-scanning microscope (Olympus) after staining with PI (0.01 mg ml–1) for 1–2 min. The excitation wavelength and transmission range for emission were 473 and 617–717 nm, respectively. The Olympus Fluoview software was used to obtain pictures. For SEM observations, seeds or fruits (siliques) were harvested and fixed overnight in formalin–acetic acid–alcohol (4% formalin, 5% acetic acid and 50% ethanol) at room temperature. The fixed specimens were dehydrated in an ethanol series [50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 95, 99.5 and 100% (v/v); 60 min per step] and stored overnight in 100% (v/v) ethanol at room temperature. The ethanol was replaced with 3-methylbutyl acetate and the samples were dried in a critical-point dryer JCPD-5 (JEOL), sputter-coated with gold–palladium using an anion sputter device JFC-1100 (JEOL) and examined under an S-3400N scanning electron microscope (Hitachi) as previously described (CITATION). Mature seeds of No-0 and srpp-1 were fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde and 2% glutaraldehyde in 0.05 M cacodylate buffer at pH 7.4. After fixation, the samples were washed three times with 0.05 M cacodylate buffer, and were post-fixed with 2% osmium tetroxide (OsO4) in 0.05 M cacodylate buffer. The samples were dehydrated in graded ethanol solutions (50, 70, 90 and 100%). After these dehydration processes, the samples were dehydrated continuously in 100% ethanol. The samples were infiltrated with propylene oxide (PO) twice and put into a 70 : 30 mixture of PO and Quetol-651 resin (Nisshin EM). Then the PO was volatilized from the tubes overnight. The samples were transferred to a fresh 100% resin, and were polymerized at 60°C for 48 h. The polymerized resins were sectioned ultra-thin at 70 nm with a diamond knife using an ultramicrotome (Ultracut UCT) and the sections were mounted on copper grids. They were stained with 2% uranyl acetate at room temperature for 15 min, and then washed with distilled water followed by secondary staining with lead stain solution (Sigma-Aldrich) at room temperature for 3 min. The grids were observed using a transmission electron microscope JEM-1400Plus (JEOL) at an acceleration voltage of 80 kV. Digital images (2,048 × 2,048 pixels) were taken with a CCD camera (Veleta, Olympus Soft Imaging Solutions GmbH). To determine the fresh weights of organs and for quantification of the length of primary roots and root hairs, data from at least three independent experiments were averaged, and the values were subjected to statistical analyses using the Student’s t-test.
