!~ABS~! Thiamin diphosphate (TPP, vitamin B1) is an essential coenzyme present in all organisms. Animals obtain TPP from their diets, but plants synthesize TPPde novo. We isolated and characterized an Arabidopsis pale green1 (pale1) mutant that contained higher concentrations of thiamin monophosphate (TMP) and less thiamin and TPP than the wild type. Supplementation with thiamin, but not the thiazole and pyrimidine precursors, rescued the mutant phenotype, indicating that the pale1 mutant is a thiamin-deficient mutant. Map-based cloning and whole-genome sequencing revealed that the pale1 mutant has a mutation in At5g32470 encoding a TMP phosphatase of the TPP biosynthesis pathway. We further confirmed that the mutation of At5g32470 is responsible for the mutant phenotypes by complementing the pale1 mutant with constructs overexpressing full-length At5g32470. Most plant TPP biosynthetic enzymes are located in the chloroplasts and cytosol, but At5g32470-GFP localized to the mitochondrion of the root, hypocotyl, mesophyll and guard cells of the 35S:At5g32470-GFP complemented plants. The subcellular localization of a functional TMP phosphatase suggests that the complete vitamin B1 biosynthesis pathway may involve the chloroplasts, mitochondria and cytosol in plants. Analysis of PALE1 promoter-uidA activity revealed that PALE1 is mainly expressed in vascular tissues of Arabidopsis seedlings. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis of TPP biosynthesis genes and genes encoding the TPP-dependent enzymes pyruvate dehydrogenase, α-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase and transketolase revealed that the transcript levels of these genes were upregulated in the pale1 mutant. These results suggest that endogenous levels of TPP may affect the expression of genes involved in TPP biosynthesis and TPP-dependent enzymes.
!~RES~! We previously isolated a collection of albino and pale green mutants to study the effects of nuclear genes on chloroplast development and function in Arabidopsis. One of the mutants, pale1, has pale green cotyledons and leaves when grown on tissue culture medium (Figure 1a). In the pale1 mutant cotyledons, some regions in the distal part are green and the basal areas are pale (Figure 1a). The true leaves of the pale1 mutant seedlings are either pale, variegated or bear a pattern similar to that of the cotyledons (Figure 1a and Figure S1). Analysis of the photosynthetic pigments revealed that the contents of chlorophylls a and b and carotenoid pigments in the pale1 mutant are approximately 50% less than those of the wild type (Figure 1b). Similarly, the photosynthesis activity of the pale1 mutant, as indicated by the maximum quantum yield of photosystem II (PSII), is also about 50% that of the wild type (Figure 1c). [[FIGURE]] The pale green phenotype of the pale1 mutant implies that chloroplasts in the mutant may be defective. To study the effects of the pale1 mutation on chloroplast development, we used transmission electron microscopy to examine leaf sections of Arabidopsis wild-type and pale1 mutant plants. The chloroplasts from the green region of the pale1 mutant leaves were normal (Figure 1d, G). By contrast, the chloroplasts from the pale green region of the pale1 mutant leaves contained large vesicles with very few thylakoids or had overly stacked and disconnected thylakoids (Figure 1d, PG). The abnormal thylakoid membranes in the pale1 mutant may still contain functional photosynthetic pigments. Together with the normal chloroplasts in the green region of the pale1 mutant leaves, these mutant chloroplasts may be responsible for the approximately 50% reduction in photosynthetic activity compared with the wild type. When grown in soil, the pale1 mutant was significantly smaller than the wild type and the chlorotic tissues were mainly located around the leaf veins (Figure 1e). Analysis of the maximum quantum yield of PSII in the pale1 mutant revealed that older leaves had a lower photosynthetic activity than the younger leaves (Figure S2). We frequently observed that the chlorotic phenotype of the pale1 mutant was less severe when grown in soil than when grown in tissue culture. The composition of nutrients in tissue culture media is very different from that in soil. Thus, we aimed to identify the major components in the tissue culture medium that enhanced the chlorotic phenotype of the pale1 mutant. Carbon and nitrogen are two of the major nutrients used in tissue culture medium. We first examined the effects of sucrose on the pale1 mutant. When grown on medium containing half-strength Murashige and Skoog salts (1/2 MS) plus 0.1, 0.5, 1 or 2% sucrose, the pale1 mutant seedlings all showed a severe bleaching phenotype (Figure S3). These results suggested that the concentrations of sucrose commonly used in tissue culture media did not have a significant effect on the chlorotic phenotype of the pale1 mutant. Half-strength MS medium contains high concentrations of nitrate (20 mm) and ammonium (10 mm). When grown on medium containing lower concentrations of nitrate and ammonium (15/7.5, 10/5 or 5/2.5 mm), the pale1 mutant seedlings still had a severe pale green phenotype (Figure S4). Thus, we examined the effect of different nitrogen sources on the pale1 mutant phenotype. Interestingly, the pale1 mutant seedlings did not exhibit the chlorotic phenotypes and grew well on medium containing 1–30 mm nitrate as the sole nitrogen source (Figure 2a). Arabidopsis seedlings are more sensitive to exogenous ammonium than to nitrate because high concentrations of ammonium are toxic to plants. The growth of the Arabidopsis seedlings was severely inhibited, and the degree of bleaching was comparable between the wild type and the pale1 mutant when grown on medium containing 30 mm ammonium as the sole nitrogen source (Figure 2b). However, the pale1 mutant seedlings were slightly paler than the wild-type seedlings when grown on medium containing 1, 2 or 10 mm ammonium as the sole nitrogen source (Figure 2b). These results suggested that ammonium at least partially affects the chlorotic phenotype of the pale1 mutant. [[FIGURE]] We next examined the growth of the pale1 mutant on medium containing 0.5 mm nitrate supplemented with 1, 2 or 10 mm ammonium. The growth and leaf color were similar between the wild-type and the pale1 mutant seedlings when grown on medium containing 0.5 mm nitrate as the sole nitrogen source (Figure 2c, top). However, the combination of nitrate and ammonium not only significantly promoted the growth of Arabidopsis seedlings but also enhanced the chlorotic phenotype of the pale1 mutant (Figure 2c). We obtained similar results with Arabidopsis seedlings grown vertically on tissue culture medium containing different nitrogen sources (Figure S5). Although the pale1 mutant was originally isolated from T-DNA insertion lines, genetic analysis indicated that the mutation was not caused by T-DNA. Therefore, we performed map-based cloning to identify the PALE1 gene. A PCR analysis with simple sequence length polymorphism (SSLP) markers of F2 mutant plants derived from the cross between the pale1 mutant (Columbia-0 background) and the Landsberg erecta (Ler) ecotype revealed that the pale1 mutation is located near the SSLP marker MIK22-1 and the centromere of chromosome 5 (Figure 3a). [[FIGURE]] We then sequenced the whole genome of the pale1 mutant and compared it with the reference genome, focusing on the bottom arm of chromosome 5. A point mutation, G-to-A, was identified in the fifth exon of At5g32470, located between marker MIK22-1 and the centromere of chromosome 5 (Figure 3b). At5g32470 encodes a protein containing a TENA/THI-4 (thiamin salvage) domain and a HAD (haloacid dehalogenase) domain (https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Structure/cdd/wrpsb.cgi?SEQUENCE=145358529&FULL). The mutation results in a premature stop codon at the 464th residue (Figure 3b), which would potentially produce a truncated protein without a functional HAD domain (Figure 3c). The HAD domain is usually associated with phosphatase activity (Kuznetsova et al., CITATION; Hasnain et al., CITATION). The HAD domain of At5g32470 (named TH2 in a recent study) was shown to be critical for TMP phosphatase activity (Mimura et al., CITATION). Thus, the pale1 mutation is a strong or null allele of At5g32470, as the encoded mutant protein may lack phosphatase activity. We used semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis to examine the expression of At5g32470 in the pale1 mutant and the wild type. Steady-state levels of At5g32470 transcripts were slightly lower in the pale1 mutant than in the wild type (Figure 3d). We sequenced the RT-PCR products derived from the wild type and the pale1 mutant, and confirmed that the mutant transcript had a premature stop codon caused by a G-to-A substitution at the 464th residue (Figure 3e). We performed complementation assays to confirm that the mutation in At5g32470 is responsible for the pale1 mutant phenotypes. Expression vectors harboring 35S:At5g32470 and 35S:At5g32470-GFP were transformed into the pale1 mutant and the transgenic lines were carried to T3 homozygosity. Both constructs rescued the pale1 mutant phenotype (Figures 3f and S6). The complementation of the pale1 mutant by 35S:At5g32470-GFP also indicates that At5g32470-GFP is functional in Arabidopsis. The TENA/THI-4 domain-containing protein is usually associated with thiamin metabolism (Jenkins et al., CITATION; Onozuka et al., CITATION; Barison et al., CITATION), whereas the HAD domain is often linked to phosphatase activity (Kuznetsova et al., CITATION; Hasnain et al., CITATION). The presence of these domains in wild-type At5g32470 suggests that PALE1 (At5g32470) may be involved in thiamin metabolism. Thus, we tested if supplementation with thiamin-related metabolites could complement the pale1 mutant phenotype. The addition of thiazole and pyrimidine precursors, HET, HMP and HET plus HMP failed to rescue the chlorotic phenotype of the pale1 mutant seedlings (Figure 4a). However, application of exogenous thiamin (1 μm) fully rescued the pale1 mutant phenotype (Figure 4a). We tested different concentrations of thiamin and found that supplementation with as little as 0.1 μm thiamin rescued the chlorotic phenotype of the pale1 mutant seedlings (Figure S7). Exogenous thiamin is known to promote plant growth. Thus, we could not exclude the possibility that the complementation of the pale1 mutant by exogenous thiamin resulted from improved plant growth rather than from the recovery of TPP deficiency. To test if the complementation by thiamin was specific to the pale1 mutant, we examined the effect of exogenous thiamin on the growth of three genetically different pale green mutants isolated in the laboratory. Although the mutated genes causing the pale green phenotype of these three mutants have yet to be identified, supplementation with 1 μm thiamin failed to rescue the pale green phenotype of these mutants (Figure S8). These results suggested that pale1 is a new allele of the thiamin-deficient mutant. [[FIGURE]] Taking into account the domain structure of PALE1/At5g32470 (Figure 3c), the thiamin-deficient phenotype of the pale1 mutant (Figure 4a) and our current understanding of the vitamin B1 biosynthesis pathway (Figure 4b), we speculated that PALE1/At5g32470 is a TMP phosphatase. Thus, we analyzed the TMP, thiamin and TPP contents in the pale1 mutant. The amount of TMP in the pale1 mutant was about four-fold higher than in the wild type (Figure 4c). By contrast, the amounts of thiamin and TPP in the pale1 mutant were approximately 30–40% of the wild-type levels (Figure 4c). Therefore, the pale1 mutant is somewhat deficient in thiamin and TPP, which is consistent with the recent discovery that At5g32470 encodes a TMP phosphatase (Mimura et al., CITATION). The phenotype of the pale1 mutant suggested that At5g32470 may play a role in chloroplast development and function. However, the TargetP prediction (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/) indicated that At5g32470 contained a putative targeting peptide (amino acids 1–28) for mitochondrial localization. Since we showed that At5g32470-GFP is functional in the pale1 mutant (Figure S6), we used confocal microscopy to observe the subcellular localization of the fusion protein in the complemented plants. Consistent with the prediction, the fluorescent signals of At5g32470-GFP co-localized with the mitochondrion-specific fluorescent dye MitoTracker Orange in the root cells of the complemented plant (Figure 5a). At5g32470-GFP was also localized to mitochondrion-like structures in hypocotyl cells (Figure S9a) and leaf guard cells (Figure S9b), but not to the chloroplasts or cytosol. We further isolated mesophyll protoplasts from 35S:At5g32470-GFP complemented pale1 mutant plants. The isolated protoplasts were stained with MitoTracker Orange and observed under a confocal microscope. The green fluorescent signals of At5g32470-GFP co-localized exclusively with the fluorescent signals of MitoTracker Orange in the protoplast (Figure 5b). [[FIGURE]] We generated several independent PALE1 (At5g32470) promoter-uidA transgenic lines in the wild-type background to study the expression of PALE1. In 5-day-old seedlings, the activity of PALE1p-GUS was detected in the major veins and tips of the cotyledons, and the vascular tissues of the hypocotyl and roots (Figure 6a). In 7- and 12-day-old seedlings, PALE1p-GUS was detected in the vascular tissues of the cotyledons, leaves, hypocotyls and roots and in the tip regions of emerging young leaves (Figure 6b, c). A relatively high level of PALE1p-GUS activity was detected in the shoot apical region and the hypocotyl–root junction of Arabidopsis seedlings (Figure 6a–c). Close-up images from a 12-day-old seedling showed PALE1p-GUS activity in the hypocotyl–root junction (Figure 6d), vascular tissues of the primary root (Figure 6e–g), veins of the cotyledons and leaves (Figure 6h, i) and trichomes of the leaves (Figure 6j). Interestingly, PALE1p-GUS was not detected in the lateral roots (Figure 6d–f). In the primary root tip, PALE1p-GUS was detected in the transition and elongation zones, but not in the meristematic zone (Figure 6g). During the reproductive stage, PALE1p-GUS was detected inside flower buds, and specifically in the sepals, anthers, filaments and styles of mature flowers (Figure 6k). PALE1p-GUS was also detected in the pollen within the anther of a mature flower (Figure 6l) and in the pedicel of a mature silique (Figure 6m). [[FIGURE]] A reduction in endogenous TPP levels may affect the expression of vitamin B1 biosynthesis genes in the pale1 mutant. We used quantitative RT-PCR to examine the expression of known vitamin B1 biosynthesis genes THI1, THIC, TH1, PALE1/TH2, TPK1 and TPK2 in the wild type, the pale1 mutant and the 35S:At5g32470 complementation line. The expression of PALE1/TH2 was slightly downregulated in the pale1 mutant (Figure 7a), which was consistent with the semi-quantitative RT-PCR result (Figure 3d). Interestingly, the expression of the other known vitamin B1 biosynthesis genes was upregulated in the pale1 mutant compared with that of the wild type and the complementation line (Figure 7a). In addition to vitamin B1 biosynthesis genes, we also examined the expression of genes encoding TPP-dependent enzymes. Of the genes examined, the expression of PDH1, PDH2, KGDH1 and TK1 was also upregulated in the pale1 mutant (Figure 7b). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Columbia-0) was used for the generation of mutant and transgenic lines. For plants grown on tissue culture medium, Arabidopsis seeds were surface-sterilized by soaking in bleach with 0.05% Tween 20, then rinsed three times with sterile water and planted on 1/2 MS plates (M524, PhytoTechnology Laboratories, https://www.phytotechlab.com/) containing 0.05% (w/v) 2-(N-morpholine)-ethanesulfonic acid (MES), 2% (w/v) sucrose, pH 5.7 (adjusted with 1 N KOH) and 0.8% (w/v) agar. The plate was sealed with Parafilm, kept at 4°C for 2 days and then transferred to a growth chamber on a 16-h light/8-h dark cycle at 23°C. For phenotypic analysis on different nitrogen sources, plants were grown on medium containing 1/2 MS-modified basal salt mixture without nitrogen (M531, PhytoTechnology Laboratories) supplemented with the indicated concentrations of nitrate and/or ammonium. For plants grown on soil, 1-week-old seedlings grown on tissue culture plates were transferred to soil and placed in a growth chamber on a 16-h light/8-h dark cycle at 23°C. The pale1 mutant was isolated from a collection of T-DNA insertion lines (Hsieh and Goodman, CITATION). Genetic analysis of the pale1 mutant revealed that the mutation was not linked to a T-DNA insertion. Thus, we combined the approaches of map-based cloning and whole-genome sequencing to characterize the pale1 mutation. The pale1 mutant was crossed to Ler to generate several F1 progeny with a normal green phenotype. The mapping population was collected from F2 plants displaying a pale green phenotype when grown on 1/2 MS medium containing 2% sucrose. Genomic DNA isolated from individual pale green F2 plants was used for PCR analysis with SSLP markers (http://www.arabidopsis.org/Cereon). Next-generation sequencing technology was used to sequence the whole genome of the pale1 mutant as previously described (Hsieh et al., CITATION). A Maxi-Imaging-PAM Chlorophyll Fluorometer (Heinz Walz GmbH, http://www.walz.com/) was used to measure the maximum quantum yield (Fv/Fm) of PSII. Chlorophyll fluorescence imaging and determination of photosynthetic pigments were performed as previously described (Hsieh et al., CITATION). Ten-day-old Arabidopsis seedlings (100–150 mg) were homogenized with beads in 1 ml of 0.1% (v/v) acetic acid, incubated at 4°C with continuous shaking for 15 min and centrifuged at 14 000 g for 10 min at 4°C. The supernatants were filtered with a 0.20-μm hydrophilic polypropylene (GHP) membrane (Pall Corporation, https://www.pall.com/) and submitted to the Metabolomics Core at Academia Sinica (http://abrc.sinica.edu.tw/2010E/view/?mid=119&fid=24) for analysis of thiamin vitamers using Waters ACQUITY ultraperformance liquid chromatography (UPLC) coupled to a Waters Xevo Triple Quadrupole (Waters, http://www.waters.com/). The separation was performed by injecting 10 μl of sample into an ACQUITY UPLC HSS T3 column (particle size 1.8 μm and the column 2.1 × 100 mm) at a flow rate of 250 μl min−1 using a 10-min gradient for analysis. Mobile phase A was H2O with 0.1% formic acid (FA). Mobile phase B was acetonitrile (ACN) with 0.1% FA. The separation gradient used was: 0–4 min, 1% B; 4–6 min, from 1% B to 95% B; 6–7 min, 95% B; 7–7.5 min, from 95% B to 1% B; 7.5–10 min, 1% B. Characteristic MS transitions were monitored using positive multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) mode for thiamin (m/z, 265 → 122), TMP (m/z, 345 → 122) and TPP (m/z, 425 → 122). Data acquisition and processing were performed using MassLynx version 4.1 and TargetLynx software (Waters). The first leaves from 2-week-old wild-type Arabidopsis and pale1 mutant seedlings were used for transmission electron microscopy. Sample fixation, dehydration, embedding, sectioning, staining and observation were performed as previously described (Hsieh and Goodman, CITATION). RNA extraction and RT-PCR analysis were performed as previously described (Tseng et al., CITATION). Primers used for semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis were as follows: At5g32470, 5′-TCTGGTTTCGCACCAAGTC-3′, 5′-AAAAGGCTGCCCTGATGAGG-3′; ACTIN2, 5′-AAGAGATAATCCAGGAGATTC-3′, 5′-CAAGGAGAGAACAGCTTGG-3′. The primer sequences used for quantitative RT-PCR analysis of vitamin B1 biosynthesis genes and genes encoding TPP-dependent enzymes are listed in Table S1. Full-length At5g32470 cDNAs were produced by RT-PCR with the forward primer 5′-CACCATGCGCTTCCTCTTCCCC-3′ and two different reverse primers, 5′-TTACTCCCATCCAAGAGCGA-3′ and 5′-CTCCCATCCAAGAGCGAATG-3′, in separate reactions. The At5g32470 cDNAs with and without the stop codon were cloned into a Gateway pENTR/D-TOPO vector (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com/). After sequence verification, the cDNA clones were separately recombined into destination vectors pGWB502Ω and pGWB505 to generate 35S:At5g32470 and 35S:At5g32470-GFP constructs. The resulting plasmids were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101, which was then transformed into the pale1 mutant plants by the floral dip mthod. The harvested T1 seeds were planted on medium containing hygromycin (10 μg ml−1) to select for successful transformants. During the selection, hygromycin-resistant plants were green, indicating that 35S:At5g32470 and 35S:At5g32470-GFP cDNAs complemented the pale1 mutant. Multiple independent lines from both transformation events were carried to T3 homozygosity for further analysis. Seedlings from several independent 35S:At5g32470-GFP complementation lines were observed under a 510 META Zeiss confocal laser scanning microscope (https://www.zeiss.com/microscopy/). The fluorescent dye MitoTracker Orange (M7511; Thermo Fisher Scientific, http://www.thermofisher.com) was used to stain the mitochondria. MitoTracker Orange-stained protoplasts isolated from the leaves of the same complementation lines were also observed by confocal microscopy. A putative promoter region encompassing 2384 bp upstream of the initiation of the translation start codon of PALE1 (At5g32470) was obtained by PCR with primers 5′-CACCTGACATAGATAGTTAAACTG-3′ and 5′-CCTTGAGCTCAAAATGAGAGAGAAGGC-3′ using Arabidopsis genomic DNA as a template. The PCR product was cloned into a Gateway pENTR/D-TOPO vector (Invitrogen). After sequence verification, the entire 2384-bp DNA fragment was recombined into the Gateway destination vector pGWB533 to generate a PALE1 promoter (PALE1p)-uidA fusion construct. The PALE1p-uidA construct was transformed into A. tumefaciens strain GV3101, which was then transformed into wild-type Arabidopsis plants by the floral dip method. Several PALE1p-uidA transgenic lines were carried to T3 homozygosity for the GUS assay as previously described (Sung et al., CITATION). Similar GUS staining results were obtained in three independent lines.
