!~ABS~! The complexity of plant antioxidative systems gives rise to many unresolved questions. One relates to the functional importance of dehydroascorbate reductases (DHARs) in interactions between ascorbate and glutathione. To investigate this issue, we produced a complete set of loss-of-function mutants for the three annotated Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) DHARs. The combined loss of DHAR1 and DHAR3 expression decreased extractable activity to very low levels but had little effect on phenotype or ascorbate and glutathione pools in standard conditions. An analysis of the subcellular localization of the DHARs in Arabidopsis lines stably transformed with GFP fusion proteins revealed that DHAR1 and DHAR2 are cytosolic while DHAR3 is chloroplastic, with no evidence for peroxisomal or mitochondrial localizations. When the mutations were introduced into an oxidative stress genetic background (cat2), the dhar1 dhar2 combination decreased glutathione oxidation and inhibited cat2-triggered induction of the salicylic acid pathway. These effects were reversed in cat2 dhar1 dhar2 dhar3 complemented with any of the three DHARs. The data suggest that (1) DHAR can be decreased to negligible levels without marked effects on ascorbate pools, (2) the cytosolic isoforms are particularly important in coupling intracellular hydrogen peroxide metabolism to glutathione oxidation, and (3) DHAR-dependent glutathione oxidation influences redox-driven salicylic acid accumulation.
!~RES~! To analyze the roles of the three DHAR genes, we obtained Arabidopsis T-DNA mutants with insertions in the corresponding coding sequences. Homozygous lines were readily obtained for dhar mutations, and reverse transcription-PCR confirmed that they were all knockouts or severe knockdowns (Supplemental Fig. S1, left). Loss of DHAR1 or DHAR3 function decreased extractable leaf activity by about 50%, while the effect of the dhar2 mutation was much less marked (Fig. 1A). From these lines, three double mutants were produced. The dhar1 dhar2 double mutant showed similar activity to dhar1, while the dhar1 dhar3 combination decreased DHAR activity to 5% of the wild-type level (Fig. 1A). Combining the dhar2 and dhar3 mutations led to an increase in DHAR activity compared with the dhar3 single mutant, pointing to a compensatory effect that was presumably linked to DHAR1, because a triple mutant, in which all three genes were mutated, showed negligible activity (Fig. 1A). [[FIGURE]] When grown in standard conditions, none of the single, double, or triple mutants showed any difference in phenotype compared with Col-0 (Fig. 1B; Supplemental Fig. S2). Similarly, leaf ascorbate and glutathione pools remained at wild-type levels and reduction states (Fig. 1, C and D; Supplemental Table S1). As a first test of the role of each DHAR in stress responses, mutants were grown in vitro in agar containing stressful concentrations of cadmium, mannitol, salt, or paraquat, and root growth was measured (Supplemental Fig. S3). Loss of DHAR function caused a slight increase in cadmium sensitivity, which was more evident at low concentrations and which was apparent even in the three single mutants. Growth on mannitol was not substantially affected by the mutations, but dhar1 dhar2, dhar1 dhar3, and the triple mutant showed somewhat enhanced sensitivity to NaCl (Supplemental Fig. S3). All three single mutations enhanced sensitivity to the oxidative stress caused by paraquat, although combination of the mutations did not reinforce this effect (Supplemental Fig. S3). Taken together, the above results suggest that none of the three DHARs is required for plant development but that they may interact in a complex manner to determine stress resistance. To explore this point further, the three mutations were introduced into a catalase-deficient background in which enhanced intracellular H2O2 availability increases the demand on reductants such as ascorbate and glutathione (CITATION). Thus, we produced double cat2 dhar1, cat2 dhar2, and cat2 dhar3 mutants, and from these lines, we produced three triple and one quadruple mutant (Supplemental Fig. S1, right). Analysis of extractable leaf DHAR in cat2 revealed that the activity was increased in response to the oxidative stress caused by catalase deficiency (Fig. 2A, top). Analysis of double cat2 dhar mutants suggested that DHAR1 was responsible for most of the DHAR activity in the cat2 background and that the remainder was largely due to DHAR3. Activities in cat2 and cat2 dhar2 were similar (Fig. 2A, top), suggesting that, as in the Col-0 background, DHAR2 makes a minor contribution to the extractable leaf activity. Consistent with this, no activity was detected in cat2 dhar1 dhar3 or the quadruple cat2 dhar1 dhar2 dhar3 mutant (Fig. 2A, top). [[FIGURE]] As reported previously, the cat2 mutant showed only about 20% of wild-type leaf catalase activity (CITATION), and this was not affected by any of the combinations of dhar mutations (Fig. 2A, bottom). The activities of two other enzymes of the ascorbate-glutathione pathway, glutathione reductase (GR) and ascorbate peroxidase (APX), were increased alongside DHAR in cat2, but the presence of the dhar mutations had little effect on either (Fig. 2A, middle). The dhar mutations did not affect rosette mass in the cat2 background (Fig. 2B, bottom), but two mutant combinations significantly impacted the cat2-triggered phenotype (Fig. 2B, top). While cat2 and most of the derived cat2 dhar lines showed clearly visible hypersensitive response-like lesions on specific leaves, these were much less apparent in cat2 dhar1 dhar2 and cat2 dhar1 dhar2 dhar3 (Fig. 2B, top). Genetically or pharmacologically induced catalase deficiency causes the accumulation of glutathione (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Accordingly, leaf glutathione was about 2-fold higher in cat2 than in Col-0, with the difference being almost entirely due to GSSG (Fig. 3, bottom). As a result, the glutathione reduction state, which was above 90% in Col-0, was only 64% in cat2 (Supplemental Table S2). Glutathione was significantly less oxidized in the triple cat2 dhar1 dhar2 and quadruple cat2 dhar1 dhar2 dhar3 mutants (Supplemental Table S2), and this was accompanied by decreased total glutathione in these two lines (Fig. 3, bottom). All other cat2 dhar lines showed similar glutathione status to cat2. As reported previously, ascorbate is less affected in cat2 than is glutathione (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION). No difference in total ascorbate contents was observed in any of the mutants relative to Col-0 (Fig. 3, top). However, several lines in the cat2 background showed a slightly but significantly more oxidized ascorbate pool as a result of the presence of additional mutations in dhar (Supplemental Table S2). [[FIGURE]] Fusion proteins were constructed for all three DHARs with the GFP tag fused C or N terminally (DHAR-GFP or GFP-DHAR, respectively). The six constructs were transformed into the quadruple cat2 dhar1 dhar2 dhar3 and the triple dhar1 dhar2 dhar3 mutant backgrounds, and T1 plants were analyzed. Despite repeated attempts, we were not able to regenerate plants expressing GFP-DHAR1 in either the cat2 dhar1 dhar2 dhar3 or dhar1 dhar2 dhar3 background. DHAR1-GFP showed a cytosolic localization in the leaves of the quadruple mutant background (Fig. 4). A similar localization also was observed for DHAR1-GFP in the roots of this line (Supplemental Fig. S4) and in the leaf cells of the dhar1 dhar2 dhar3 triple mutant background (Supplemental Fig. S5). Fluorescence patterning did not overlap with the positive control for peroxisomal localization (Supplemental Fig. S6). [[FIGURE]] DHAR2-GFP and GFP-DHAR2 fusions showed similar fluorescence patterns to the negative GFP control, confirming a cytosolic localization in the leaves of both genetic backgrounds (Fig. 4; Supplemental Fig. S5). Both DHAR2 fusions also gave a cytosolic signal in the roots (data not shown). In contrast to DHAR1 and DHAR2, DHAR3-GFP was associated with the chloroplast. The DHAR3-GFP signal showed close overlap with chlorophyll autofluorescence in the leaves of both the complemented quadruple and triple mutants (Fig. 4; Supplemental Fig. S5). To establish whether DHAR3 also might be targeted to the mitochondria, we compared GFP fluorescence with MitoTracker signals and with a positive control for dual chloroplast-mitochondrion targeting (PDF1B-GFP) in roots. MitoTracker fluorescence revealed no overlap with the DHAR3-GFP signal (Supplemental Fig. S4). Whereas PDF1B-GFP fluorescence patterns were observed in both the larger plastids and the smaller punctate mitochondria, DHAR3-GFP signals were observed only in plastids (Supplemental Fig. S4). When the GFP was fused to the DHAR3 N terminus (GFP-DHAR3), no association with the chloroplast was observed; instead, a diffuse pattern of staining appeared (Fig. 4; Supplemental Fig. S5), consistent with targeting of the native DHAR3 to the chloroplast through an N-terminal signal peptide sequence. In conclusion, these data suggest that DHAR1 and DHAR2 are cytosolic while DHAR3 is localized in plastids. This distribution was not affected by the presence of the cat2 mutation. To further evaluate the importance of the three DHARs in oxidative stress responses, we analyzed the ability of DHAR-GFP fusion proteins for each of the three DHARs to complement extractable activity, glutathione contents, and phenotypes in T2 individuals of the cat2 dhar1 dhar2 dhar3 mutant. For each DHAR, two independent lines were obtained that showed a 3:1 segregation for antibiotic resistance in T2 (Supplemental Table S3). In resistant DHAR1-GFP and DHAR3-GFP plants, DHAR activity was restored to about 50% of the value in cat2 (Fig. 5). No increase in extractable DHAR activity was detected in antibiotic-resistant individuals from the quadruple mutant complemented with DHAR2-GFP (Fig. 5). [[FIGURE]] Complementation of cat2 dhar1 dhar2 dhar3 plants with DHAR1 or DHAR3 caused significant increases in GSSG (Fig. 6B). As a result, the glutathione status of DHAR1-GFP+ and DHAR3-GFP+ plants was more similar to that of the single cat2 mutant than to that of the parent quadruple mutant line (Fig. 6B). No effect on ascorbate was observed (Fig. 6A). Despite the lack of a detectable increase in extractable activity in DHAR2-GFP+ complemented lines, introduction of this protein also increased glutathione contents and decreased the glutathione reduction state (Fig. 6D). However, the effect was somewhat different from that produced by the introduction of DHAR1 or DHAR3. Complementation with DHAR2 caused glutathione to increase above cat2 levels and to remain more reduced than in cat2, albeit less reduced than in the uncomplemented quadruple mutant line (Fig. 6D). Again, no effect on ascorbate was observed (Fig. 6C). [[FIGURE]] Complementation with DHAR1, DHAR2, or DHAR3 restored the cat2 lesion phenotype in the cat2 dhar1 dhar2 dhar3 quadruple mutant. Two experiments with different batches of T2 seed revealed a 3:1 phenotype segregation (Supplemental Table S4). In a first step to analyze this effect more closely, lesions were quantified using imaging software. Quantification in Col-0 and the eight cat2 dhar loss-of-function lines showed that all lines carrying the cat2 mutation presented lesions on about 15% of the total rosette surface, except the two lines in which DHAR1 and DHAR2 functions were both lost (cat2 dhar1 dhar2 and cat2 dhar1 dhar2 dhar3; Fig. 7A). The cat2-dependent lesions could be fully restored by complementation of the quadruple mutant with any of the three DHARs (Fig. 7B). The role of the different DHARs in oxidative stress linked to catalase deficiency was further tested using 3-AT. Like the cat2 mutation, catalase inhibition by this herbicide engages GSH-dependent processes, which become apparent as the accumulation of GSSG (CITATION). Spraying with 3-AT caused a bleaching phenotype within 2 d in the wild type (Supplemental Fig. S7). The appearance of this phenotype was inhibited in dhar1 and, more clearly, in dhar1 dhar2 and dhar1 dhar3 double mutants as well as in the triple dhar1 dhar2 dhar3 mutant line (Fig. 7C; Supplemental Fig. S7). Similar to the effects observed in the cat2 background (Fig. 3), 3-AT-induced accumulation of GSSG was decreased significantly in dhar1 dhar2 and, especially, in dhar1 dhar2 dhar3 (Fig. 7D). Consequently, glutathione remained significantly more reduced in these lines than in the wild type treated with 3-AT (Supplemental Table S5). [[FIGURE]] To explore the processes underlying the phenotypic effects described above, we analyzed the effects of the three dhar mutations on transcripts of a key gene involved in salicylic acid (SA) synthesis (ICS1) and two SA-dependent pathogenesis-related genes (PR1 and PR2). All three genes were markedly induced in response to oxidative stress in cat2 but less so in the quadruple cat2 dhar1 dhar2 dhar3 line (Fig. 8). In the Col-0 background, the triple loss of DHAR function also decreased basal levels of PR1 and PR2 transcripts, although ICS1 transcripts were increased slightly (Fig. 8). [[FIGURE]] In a second approach, we profiled the lesion phenotype of the leaves from Col-0 and all eight lines containing cat2 and dhar mutations in combination. In the cat2 single mutant, cell death was apparent on the oldest leaves, both as whitish lesions and Trypan Blue-positive staining (Fig. 9A). Similar phenotypes to cat2 were observed in cat2 dhar1, cat2 dhar2, cat2 dhar3, cat2 dhar1 dhar3, and cat2 dhar2 dhar3 (Fig. 9A). By contrast, lesions were restricted to one or two of the very oldest leaves in cat2 dhar1 dhar2 and the quadruple mutant (Fig. 9A). Hence, a clear phenotypic difference was apparent between these two lines and the others carrying the cat2 mutation, particularly on leaves 4 and 5 (Fig. 9A). Measurements of glutathione specifically in these leaves confirmed the effect of the combined dhar1 and dhar2 mutations on cat2-triggered effects on glutathione (Fig. 9B). [[FIGURE]] Analysis of SA in the same leaves revealed that, while all other cat2-carrying genotypes accumulated SA to around 20 µg g−1 fresh weight in leaves 4 and 5, SA remained at close to wild-type levels in cat2 dhar1 dhar2 and in the quadruple mutant (Fig. 9C). To assess the significance of this effect, the quadruple mutant was selected for an analysis of resistance to virulent bacteria. While bacterial growth was substantially lower in cat2 than in the wild type, the simultaneous presence of the three dhar mutations caused partial loss of this induced resistance (Supplemental Fig. S8). Although no difference in bacterial growth was observed between Col-0 and dhar1 dhar2 dhar3, SA accumulated somewhat less in response to infection in the triple mutant (Supplemental Fig. S8). Similarly, the combined loss of the three DHAR functions decreased SA accumulation following infection of the quadruple mutant compared with cat2 (Supplemental Fig. S8).
!~MM~! All the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) mutants used in this study were in the Col-0 genetic background, and all seeds were obtained from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (http://arabidopsis.info). Lines carrying T-DNA insertions in the DHAR1 (At1g19570), DHAR2 (At1g75270), and DHAR3 (At5g16710) genes were identified using insertion mutant information obtained from the SIGnAL Web site (http://signal.salk.edu). While T-DNA lines for DHAR1 and DHAR2 were obtained from the SALK collection (SALK_005238 and SALK_026089, respectively), the T-DNA line for DHAR3 was from the SAIL collection (SAIL_435_A09). The cat2 mutant was cat2-1 (CITATION). From these lines, the following resources were produced by crossing: dhar1 dhar2, dhar1 dhar3, dhar2 dhar3, dhar1 dhar2 dhar3, cat2 dhar1, cat2 dhar2, cat2 dhar3, cat2 dhar1 dhar2, cat2 dhar1 dhar3, cat2 dhar2 dhar3, and cat2 dhar1 dhar2 dhar3. After verification of heterozygotes in F1 plants by PCR, double, triple, and quadruple homozygotes were identified similarly in the F2 generation and allowed to produce F3 seeds, which were used for experiments. Expression analyses were performed by semiquantitative reverse transcription-PCR. Total RNA was extracted with TRIzol reagent (Invitrogen) following the manufacturer’s instructions. RT and first-strand cDNA synthesis were performed using the SuperScript III First-Strand Synthesis System (Invitrogen). ACTIN2 transcripts were measured as a loading control. Primer sequences are listed in Supplemental Table S6. Full-length cDNA clones of Arabidopsis DHARs were obtained from the RIKEN BioResource Center Arabidopsis full-length cDNA collection (https://www.brc.riken.jp). The cDNA clones encoding DHAR1 (RAFL19-03-N19), DHAR2 (RAFL09-83-E23), and DHAR3 (RAFL19-84-K20) were moved as SalI-NotI fragments into the vector pENTR2b (Invitrogen) and sequenced, using primer pairs listed in Supplemental Table S6. An LR reaction was then used to transfer cDNAs from the resulting entry vectors to the appropriate Gateway binary destination vectors fused according to the manufacturer’s instructions (Invitrogen). The pB7WGF2 vector was used for N-terminal GFP fusion, and the pH7FWG2 vector was used for C-terminal GFP fusion (CITATION). In these constructs, the expression of DHAR1, DHAR2, or DHAR3 was driven by the 35S promoter of Cauliflower mosaic virus. Purified plasmids were analyzed and sequenced to confirm successful fusion constructs. Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 pMP90 (CITATION) was transformed with confirmed binary vector constructs (CITATION) and used to transform developing floral tissues of 4-week-old Arabidopsis triple dhar1 dhar2 dhar3 and quadruple cat2 dhar1 dhar2 dhar3 mutant plants using the floral dip method (CITATION). Ten-day-old seedlings of the triple dhar1 dhar2 dhar3 and quadruple cat2 dhar1 dhar2 dhar3 mutants were stably transformed with DHAR1-GFP or GFP-DHAR1, DHAR2-GFP or GFP-DHAR2, and DHAR3-GFP or GFP-DHAR3. Transformed T1 seeds were germinated on agar and identified based on their resistance to hygromycin or were screened using a Leica dissecting microscope equipped with a mercury lamp and epifluorescence filter set (CITATION). Resistant and PCR-positive transgenic plants were transferred to a growth chamber and maintained up to the T2 generation, when segregation analysis was performed on complemented cat2 dhar1 dhar2 dhar3 lines. Two independent lines were selected and used for the analysis of enzyme activities, glutathione, and ascorbate. To determine subcellular localization, leaf sections from T1 transformed plants were mounted onto a slide in water and imaging was performed with a Leica SP8 scanning confocal microscope using a 63× PLAN APO oil-immersion objective (numerical aperture, 1.4). GFP was excited with a 488-nm laser, and fluorescence was detected in a 493- to 530-nm detection window. As a chloroplast marker, chlorophyll autofluorescence was excited at 633 nm and detected at 698 to 748 nm. As peroxisome and dual chloroplast-mitochondrion markers, lines expressing GFP-MFP2 (A5 line; CITATION) or PDF1B-GFP (CITATION) were used. To check for possible mitochondrial localization, transformants were stained with the mitochondrion-selective probe MitoTracker Red (fluorescent dye; CMTMRos; Invitrogen) following the instruction manual. Fluorescence was excited with a 578-nm laser and detected in a 582- to 609-nm detection window. Both detection channels were recorded using hybrid detectors (Hamamatsu) with sequential acquisition to avoid any cross talk. For plants grown on soil, seeds were first incubated for 2 d at 4°C and then transferred to a controlled-environment growth chamber in a 16-h photoperiod and an irradiance of 200 μmol m−2 s−1 at leaf level, 20°C/18°C, 65% humidity, and given nutrient solution twice per week. Unless stated otherwise, plants were sampled after 3 weeks of growth. Samples were rapidly frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at −80°C until analysis. All data are means ± se of at least three biological replicates obtained from different plants, and experiments were repeated at least twice. For in vitro stress treatments, seeds were sown on commercially available 0.5× Murashige and Skoog medium (basal salt mixture; M0221; Duchefa) solidified with 0.8% agar (Phyto-Agar HP696; Kalys) and grown in a 16-h-light/8-h-dark, 20°C growth chamber without sugar. Plants were grown vertically for 10 d on medium supplemented with 0, 10, or 50 μm CdCl2, 50 or 100 mm NaCl, 100 or 200 mm mannitol, and 0.01 or 0.1 µm paraquat. For 3-AT treatment, seeds were sown on soil as described above. After 3 weeks, plant leaves were sprayed once with 2 mm 3-AT, then leaf samples were collected after 48 h and immediately frozen with liquid nitrogen for further analysis. To assess resistance to a virulent bacterium, plants grown in soil as above were inoculated with Pseudomonas syringae pv tomato strain DC3000 as described by CITATION using a bacterial titer of 106 colony-forming units mL−1. Samples were taken for counting immediately after infiltration (0 h) or 48 h later. Quadruplicate biological samples, each of two leaf discs, were used. Percentage lesion area in cat2, or bleaching induced by 3-AT treatment, was quantified using IQmaterials software. For Trypan Blue staining, rosette leaves were infiltrated three times under vacuum with lactophenol trypan solution (2.5 mg mL−1 Trypan Blue, 25% lactic acid, 23% water-saturated phenol, 25% glycerol, and water). Samples were then washed with distilled water and heated over boiling water. After cooling, samples were cleared with a chloral hydrate solution (8 g of chloral hydrate dissolved in 2 mL of 50% glycerol and 1 mL of water). The solution was replaced several times. Samples were mounted in chloral hydrate solution and observed with a macroscope (Nikon AZ100 Multizoom). Total RNA was extracted with TRIzol (Invitrogen) following the manufacturer’s instructions. RNA quality was determined by gel electrophoresis, and concentration was estimated using a Nanodrop spectrophotometer at 260 nm. RT and first-strand cDNA synthesis were performed using the SuperScript III First-Strand Synthesis System (Invitrogen). Quantitative PCR was performed according to CITATION. Primer sequences are listed in Supplemental Table S6. Extractable enzyme activities were measured according to protocols detailed by CITATION. Briefly, catalase was measured by the removal of H2O2 monitored at 240 nm, DHAR as GSH-dependent formation of ascorbate from DHA at 265 nm, APX as H2O2-dependent ascorbate oxidation at 290 nm, and GR as GSSG-dependent NADPH oxidation at 340 nm. Oxidized and reduced forms of glutathione and ascorbate were measured by plate-reader assay as described by CITATION. Total SA was measured according to the protocol of CITATION. Sequences of genes studied in this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative or GenBank/EMBL data libraries under the following gene identifier codes: At1g19570 (DHAR1), At1g75270 (DHAR2), At5g16710 (DHAR3), At4g35090 (CAT2), At2g14610 (PR1), At3g57260 (PR2), At1g74710 (ICS1), At3g18780 (ACT2), and At4g36800 (RCE1). The following supplemental materials are available. Supplemental Figure S1. Genotyping and analysis of transcript abundance in dhar mutant lines. Supplemental Figure S2. Photographs of dhar mutants after 3 weeks of growth. Supplemental Figure S3. Effects of various stresses on root growth in dhar mutants. Supplemental Figure S4. Subcellular localization of DHAR1 and DHAR3 in roots. Supplemental Figure S5. Subcellular localization of DHARs in the absence of the cat2 mutation. Supplemental Figure S6. Comparison of DHAR1-GFP signals in leaves with a positive control for peroxisomal targeting. Supplemental Figure S7. Phenotypes of Col-0 and dhar mutants 2 d after spraying with 3-AT. Supplemental Figure S8. Effect of dhar1 dhar2 dhar3 triple mutation on resistance to P. syringae pv tomato DC3000 in the Col-0 and cat2 backgrounds. Supplemental Table S1. Ascorbate and glutathione redox states in Col-0 and dhar mutants. Supplemental Table S2. Ascorbate and glutathione redox states in Col-0, cat2, and cat2 dhar mutants. Supplemental Table S3. T2 segregation of DHAR-complemented lines growing in vitro on agar. Supplemental Table S4. T2 segregation of lesion phenotypes in complemented lines growing in soil. Supplemental Table S5. Glutathione redox states in Col-0 and dhar mutants after treatment with 3-AT. Supplemental Table S6. DNA primer sequences used in this study.
