!~ABS~! Hydrogen sulfide is an important signaling molecule comparable with nitric oxide and hydrogen peroxide in plants. The underlying mechanism of its action is unknown, although it has been proposed to be S-sulfhydration. This post-translational modification converts the thiol groups of cysteines within proteins to persulfides, resulting in functional changes of the proteins. In Arabidopsis thaliana, S-sulfhydrated proteins have been identified, including the cytosolic isoforms of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase GapC1 and GapC2. In this work, we studied the regulation of sulfide on the subcellular localization of these proteins using two different approaches. We generated GapC1–green fluorescent protein (GFP) and GapC2–GFP transgenic plants in both the wild type and the des1 mutant defective in the l-cysteine desulfhydrase DES1, responsible for the generation of sulfide in the cytosol. The GFP signal was detected in the cytoplasm and the nucleus of epidermal cells, although with reduced nuclear localization in des1 compared with the wild type, and exogenous sulfide treatment resulted in similar signals in nuclei in both backgrounds. The second approach consisted of the immunoblot analysis of the GapC endogenous proteins in enriched nuclear and cytosolic protein extracts, and similar results were obtained. A significant reduction in the total amount of GapC in des1 in comparison with the wild type was determined and exogenous sulfide significantly increased the protein levels in the nuclei in both plants, with a stronger response in the wild type. Moreover, the presence of an S-sulfhydrated cysteine residue on GapC1 was demonstrated by mass spectrometry. We conclude that sulfide enhances the nuclear localization of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase.
!~RES~! GAPDH was identified and widely characterized as a protein that undergoes post-translational modification by S-sulfhydration on its cysteine residues (CITATION, CITATION), and this modification alters the catalytic activities of the enzyme (CITATION, CITATION). Because GAPDH isoforms GapC1 and GapC2 are translocated to the nucleus (CITATION, CITATION), we studied the effects of decreased sulfide production in the des1 mutant on cytosolic/nuclear partitioning. To elucidate the subcellular localization of GapC in Arabidopsis, green fluorescent protein (GFP)-fused constructs with GapC1 and GapC2 cDNAs were created under a 35S-CaMV (Cauliflower mosaic virus) promoter and used to obtain stable GapC1–GFP and GapC2–GFP transgenic plants on both the wild-type and des1 backgrounds. Fluorescent signals were analyzed with a confocal laser scanning microscope in leaves from 30-day-old plants. Both GapC–GFP chimeric proteins, GapC1–GFP and GapC2–GFP, were detected in the cytoplasm and the nucleus reproducibly in wild-type background transgenic plants (Fig. 1A, C). However, GapC1–GFP and GapC2–GFP chimeric proteins were primarily localized in the cytoplasm cell periphery and the perinuclear region in des1 mutant overexpression lines, with reduced nuclear localization compared with wild-type plants (Fig. 1B, D). Because des1 mutant plants show a 30% reduction in endogenous sulfide compared with wild-type plants (CITATION), our results may suggest that sulfide induces the nuclear localization of the GapC enzymes. To corroborate this observation, we analyzed the effects of exogenous sulfide treatment on GapC–GFP localization in leaves from plants grown under physiological conditions, which were treated exogenously for 2 h with 200 μM sodium hydrosulfide (NaHS). Transgenic wild-type background plants did not exhibit any significant changes in GapC1–GFP and GapC2–GFP localization due to the sulfide treatment; they were localized in the cytoplasm and the nucleus (Fig. 1E, G). However, chimeric proteins were significantly detected in the nucleus and the cytoplasm in mutant des1 transgenic plants that were sulfide treated (Fig. 1F, H). Nuclear staining was performed with SYTO®Blue45 on the same samples to ensure that our observation reflected true nuclear localization, and there was clear staining of the nucleus that co-localized with the GFP fluorescence observed in the nuclei of GapC1–GFP and GapC2–GFP plants (Supplementary Fig. S1). The quantification of GFP fluorescence intensities revealed significantly fewer fluorescence signals in the nuclei in des1 background transgenic plants compared with the nuclei in wild-type background plants; furthermore, exogenous sulfide treatment resulted in similar fluorescent signals in nuclei in both wild-type and des1 plants. These findings were essentially the same in transgenic plants containing both GapC1–GFP and GapC2–GFP constructs (Fig. 1I, J). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To investigate further these results and the effects of sulfide on the translocation of GAPDH cytosolic isoforms at the whole-plant level, we performed subcellular fractionation of the nuclei and cytoplasm from the leaves of 30-day-old wild-type and des1 mutant Arabidopsis plants grown under physiological conditions or subjected to 15 d of sulfide irrigation as described in the Materials and Methods. GapC protein detection was assessed by immunoblotting with anti-GapC antibodies, either in the enriched nuclear fraction or in the cytosolic fraction (Fig. 2). A 37 kDa band of the expected size for GapC proteins was detected in the cytosolic and nuclear fractions in all samples. Two other additional bands were detected in the nuclear fraction, with apparent molecular sizes of 42 and 28 kDa (Fig. 2A). The upper band remained constant in all samples and was attributable to cross-reactivity with another nuclear protein. However, the lower band present in the nuclear fraction recognized by anti-GapC significantly increased in intensity when both wild-type and des1 mutant plants were exogenously treated with sulfide. These results correlate with our observed findings of the effects of exogenous sulfide treatment on GapC–GFP fusion protein localization and suggest that the 28 kDa band may be a processed or post-translationally modified product of the intact GapC proteins. Similar results have previously been observed for the homologous human GAPDH protein, in which a protein band with the same mobility was considered a derived and/or spliced product with unknown functional relevance (CITATION, CITATION). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Total amounts of GapC recognized by anti-GapC antibodies in the nuclear extracts were quantified as the sum of immunodetected protein bands (37 + 28 kDa bands) relative to the SYPRO-stained membrane. We observed a 15% reduction in the total amount of GapC in des1 mutant plants in comparison with wild-type plants, while the total amount of GapC in the cytoplasm remained constant in both treated and untreated samples. In contrast, treatment with exogenous sulfide for 15 d significantly increased GapC protein levels in the nuclei in both wild-type and des1 mutant plants, specifically the 28 kDa band, with a stronger response to sulfide treatment in wild-type plants. Moreover, the amounts of immunodetected protein bands in des1 mutants treated with sulfide were significantly higher than those detected in untreated wild-type and des1 mutant plants (Fig. 2B). To estimate the possibility of cytoplasmic contamination in the nuclear extracts during fractionation, we employed antibodies that recognized O-acetylserine(thiol)lyase isoform A1 (OASA1) as a cytoplasm-specific subcellular marker. A nuclear envelope protein SUN1,2 antibody (anti-SUN1,2) was used as a nucleus-specific marker to demonstrate the integrity of the nuclear fraction. As shown (Supplementary Fig. S2), OASA1 was detected in the cytoplasmic fraction but not in the nuclear fraction, indicating no contamination of the nuclear fraction by cytosolic proteins. Immunoblotting with the SUN1,2 antibody did not reveal protein degradation in the nuclear fraction. Collectively, our results demonstrate the effects of sulfide on the subcellular localization of GapC proteins and suggest their translocation to the nucleus upon sulfhydration. To demonstrate the presence of cysteine residues modified by S-sulfhydration, we carried out liquid chromatography (LC)–tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) analysis on the recombinant GapC1 protein. The digested peptides under non-reducing conditions were analyzed for a 32 Da mass increase in the fragmentation spectrum. Among the peptides identified, SDLDIVSNASC156TTNC160LAPLAK showed a sulfhydryl modification in one of the cysteine residues present, Cys160 according to the protein sequence (Fig. 3). To confirm the identification of the 28 kDa nuclear band as GapC1 and the presence of the S-sulfhydrated peptide in the nuclear protein, we analyzed by parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) the presence of the S-sulfhydrated SDLDIVSNASC156TTNC160LAPLAK peptide identified in the recombinant GapC1 protein and two additional peptides of the GapC1 protein that are lacking cysteine residues, as shown in Table 1. As shown in Fig. 4, the precursor ion and the fragment ion transitions selected for the peptides VLPALNGK and LVSWYDNEWGYSSR from recombinant GapC1 (Fig. 4A–E) were also present in the 37 kDa (Fig. 4B–F) and the 28 kDa band (Fig. 4C–G). The peak area percentages of the selected ion transitions of both peptides are conserved (Fig. 4D–H), therefore confirming the identity of the two protein bands as the GapC1 protein. In addition, using the same technique, we were able to detect the presence of the S-sulfhydrated cysteine residue in the 37 kDa and the 28 kDa nuclear bands in the same peptide as the recombinant protein (Fig. 5).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) wild-type ecotype Col-0 and the des1 T-DNA insertion mutant (des1-1; SALK_103855) were grown in soil under a photoperiod of 16 h of white light (120 μE m−2 s−1) at 20°C and 8 h of darkness at 18°C (CITATION). To generate the GapC1–GFP and GapC2–GFP transgenic plants on the wild-type and des1 backgrounds, the GapC1 (AT3g04120) and GapC2 (AT1g13440) genes were cloned into the pGFP-2 vector as a C-terminal fusion with GFP (CITATION). Then, GapC1–GFP and GapC2–GFP were cloned under control of the constitutive 35S promoter into the binary vector pBAR-35S, which contains a Basta (glufosinate) resistance gene. The final transgenic plants were generated via Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation, and introduction into wild-type and des1 mutant plants occurred using the floral dip method (CITATION). Plants were selected by Basta resistance, and seedlings were verified by reverse transcription–PCR (RT–PCR). Plants were used for experiments in the F3 generation. For immunoblot analysis, 15-day-old plants were irrigated for an additional 15 d with 200 μM NaHS or water every 4 d. For fluorescence experiments, leaves from 30-day-old plants were dipped in 200 μM NaHS or water for 2 h prior to the visualization of GFP fusion proteins by confocal microscopy. Nuclei-enriched and cytosol-enriched extracts were obtained from the 30-day-old wild-type and des1 Arabidopsis plants following the protocol described (CITATION), with some modifications. Briefly, leaf material (2 g) from untreated and NaHS-treated plants was ground in a mortar under liquid nitrogen and homogenized in 30 ml of Tris–HCl (pH 8) supplemented with 0.4 M sucrose, 10 mM MgCl2 and 0.1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (PMSF). The solution was filtered through a Miracloth layer and then spun for 20 min at 3,200 r.p.m. at 4 °C. The supernatant was removed and kept as the cytosol-enriched extract. The pellet was washed four times with 10 mM Tris–HCl (pH 8) amended with 0.25 M sucrose, 10 mM MgCl2, 1% Triton X-100 and 0.1 mM PMSF, and centrifuged at 2,100×g for 10 min at 4°C. The pellet was then disrupted in 400 μl of 20 mM Tris–HCl (pH 8), 150 mM NaCl, 0.1% SDS, 1% Triton X-100 and 2 mM EDTA, followed by sonication for 20 s four times on 30% power with a 550 Sonic Dismembrator for nuclear lysis. Then, samples were spun at 3,200 r.p.m. for 30 s at 4°C, and the pellets were discarded. The proteins from the nuclei-enriched and cytosol-enriched extracts were separated using non-reducing SDS–PAGE on 12% polyacrylamide gels before transfer to polyvinylidene fluoride membranes (Bio-Rad) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. A polyclonal antibody against the cytosolic GAPDH isoform C from the microalga Scenedesmus vacuolatus, anti-GapC (CITATION), and secondary antibodies were diluted 1 : 10,000 and 1 : 100,000, respectively. Cytosolic OASA1 and the inner nuclear envelope protein SUN1,2 were used as cell fractionation markers; anti-OASA1 (CITATION) and anti-SUN1,2 (Agrisera) polyclonal antibodies diluted 1 : 10,000 and 1 : 5,000, respectively, were employed. An ECL Select Western Blotting Detection Reaction kit (GE Healthcare) was used to detect proteins with horseradish peroxidase-conjugated anti-rabbit secondary antibodies. Prior to immunodetection, the membrane was stained with SYPRO Ruby (Life Technologies) as a protein loading control. The immunodetected protein bands were quantified relative to the SYPRO-stained membrane using Quantity One software (Bio-Rad). Leaf cells were imaged using a TCS SP2 spectral confocal microscopy (Leica Microsystems), and GFP fluorescence was visualized as described (CITATION). Light emitted was detected at 510–580 nm. GFP fluorescence was quantified by measuring the integrated GFP signal density and subtracting the background fluorescence using ImageJ 1.37 software. The area and intensity of the nuclei and cytosol were measured. The data represent the average number (±SD) from 10–15 different cells in the analyzed images captured for each experimental condition in three independent experiments. To visualize Arabidopsis nuclei, SYTO®Blue45 Fluorescent Nucleic Acid Stain (Molecular Probes) was used. Leaves were incubated for 15 min under vacuum in a 2 ml solution of purified water amended with 1 μl of SYTO®Blue45 and 0.005% (v/v) Triton X-10. Then, leaf cells were imaged using a TCS SP2 spectral confocal microscope (Leica Microsystems). SYTO®Blue 45 was excited at 458 nm, and emission was detected at 484 nm. Recombinant GapC1 protein was obtained as previously described (CITATION). GapC1 was separated using non-reducing SDS–PAGE on 12% (w/v) polyacrylamide gels, and the protein band was excised manually from Coomassie-stained gels, deposited in 96-well plates and processed automatically in a Proteineer DP (Bruker Daltonics). The digestion protocol used was based on CITATION without the reduction or alkylation steps: gel plugs were washed twice, first using 50 mM ammonium bicarbonate and secondly using acetonitrile (ACN), and then dried under a stream of nitrogen (CITATION). Then, proteomics-grade trypsin (Sigma-Aldrich) at a final concentration of 16 ng μl−1 in 25% (v/v) ACN/50 mM ammonium bicarbonate solution was added, and digestion took place at 37 °C for 5 h. The reaction was stopped by adding 50% (v/v) ACN/0.5% (v/v) trifluoroacetic acid (TFA) for peptide extraction. The tryptic eluted peptides were dried using speed-vacuum centrifugation and were resuspended in 6 microlitres of 0.1% (v/v) formic acid in water. Digested peptides were subjected to one-dimensional nanoliquid chromatography electrospray ionization-MS/MS analysis using a nanoliquid chromatography system (nanoLC Ultra 1D plus; Eksigent Technologies) coupled to a high-speed TripleTOF 5600 mass spectrometer (AB SCIEX) with a duo spray ionization source. Data acquisition was performed using a TripleTOF 5600 System (AB SCIEX). Mass spectrometry and MS/MS data obtained for individual samples were processed using Analyst TF 1.5.1 Software (AB SCIEX). Peptide mass tolerance was set to 25 ppm and 0.05 Da for fragment masses, and only one or two missed cleavages were allowed. Peptides with an individual Mr search score ≥20 were considered correctly identified. Recombinant GapC1 protein was obtained as previously described (CITATION) and nuclei-enriched extract was obtained from 30-day-old plants as described above. GapC1 and nuclei-enriched extract were separated using non-reducing SDS–PAGE on 12% (w/v) polyacrylamide gels, and two fractions were excised manually from Coomassie-stained gels from the nuclei sample line around 37 and 28 kDa corresponding to the bands observed by immunoblot. Another band was excised from the recombinant GapC1 line at 37 kDa to be used as a control. The samples were digested with trypsin without the reduction or alkylation steps. The tryptic-eluted peptides were dried using speed-vacuum centrifugation and were resuspended in 20 μl of 2% ACN and 0.2% TFA. Digested peptides were subjected to one-dimensional nanoliquid chromatography electrospray ionization-MS/MS analysis using a nanoliquid chromatography system (Eksigent nano-LC 415, Sciex) coupled to a high-speed TripleTOF 5600 mass spectrometer (AB SCIEX) with a duo spray ionization source. The trap column was a 25 cm Thermo Acclaim PepMap with 3 μm particle diameter and 75 μm internal diameter, switched online with the analytical column. The nano-pump provided a flow rate of 300 nl min−1 and was operated under gradient elution conditions. Peptides were separated using a 60 min gradient ranging from 5% to 30% mobile phase B (mobile phase A, water and 0.1% formic acid; mobile phase B, 100% ACN, 0.1% formic acid). MS/MS data acquisition was performed with a TripleTOF 5600 System (AB SCIEX) using 1 μg of digested recombinant GapC1 and 2 μl of digested nuclei-enriched bands. Samples were subjected to PRM using a 200 ms acquisition time in a mass range of 300–1,200 m/z for MS scans, followed by eight MS/MS scans of 200 ms in the mass range of 300–1,500 m/z for each ion precursor from the inclusion list (Table 1) (total cycle time: 1.85 s). Analysis was performed using Skyline software (v.3.6).
