!~ABS~! Members of the protein disulfide isomerase (PDI)-C subfamily are chimeric proteins containing the thioredoxin (Trx) domain of PDIs, and the conserved N- and C-terminal Pfam domains of Erv41p/Erv46p-type cargo receptors. They are unique to plants and chromalveolates. The Arabidopsis genome encodes three PDI-C isoforms: PDI7, PDI12 and PDI13. Here we demonstrate that PDI7 is a 65 kDa integral membrane glycoprotein expressed throughout many Arabidopsis tissues. Using a PDI7-specific antibody, we show through immunoelectron microscopy that PDI7 localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and Golgi membranes in wild-type root tip cells, and was also detected in vesicles. Tomographic modeling of the Golgi revealed that PDI7 was confined to the cis-Golgi, and accumulated primarily at the cis-most cisterna. Shoot apical meristem cells from transgenic plants overexpressing PDI7 exhibited a dramatic increase in anti-PDI7 labeling at the cis-Golgi. When N- or C-terminal fusions between PDI7 and the green fluorescent protein variant, GFP(S65T), were expressed in mesophyll protoplasts, the fusions co-localized with the ER marker, ER–mCherry. However, when GFP(S65T) was positioned internally within PDI7 (PDI7–GFPint), the fusion strongly co-localized with the cis-Golgi marker, mCherry–SYP31, and faintly labeled the ER. In contrast to the Golgi-resident fusion protein (Man49–mCherry), PDI7–GFPint did not redistribute to the ER after brefeldin A treatment. Protease protection experiments indicated that the Trx domain of PDI7 is located within the ER/Golgi lumen. We propose a model where PDI-C isoforms function as cargo receptors for proteins containing exposed cysteine residues, cycling them from the Golgi back to the ER.
!~RES~! Arabidopsis PDI7 possesses a standard PDI-C domain arrangement, consisting of two TMDs, an ERGIC-N domain, a catalytic Trx domain (a) and a COPII-coated Erv domain (CITATION). The two TMDs flank a large central loop harboring the arrangement βN–a–βC, where βN and βC correspond to the β-strand-rich regions of the ERGIC-N and COPII-coated Erv domains, respectively (Fig. 1A). The PDI7 gene does not appear to be essential, as Arabidopsis knockout mutants harboring T-DNA insertions in exon 3 (pdi7-1) and intron 8 (pdi7-2) of the gene are viable and do not display an obvious mutant phenotype under normal growth conditions (Fig. 1B; Supplementary Fig. S1). The lack of an overt phenotype associated with the loss of PDI7 may be due in part to functional redundancy with two other PDI-C isoforms in Arabidopsis, PDI12 and PDI13 (73.3% and 69.4% sequence identity to PDI7, respectively). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We have previously shown that of the three PDI-C genes in Arabidopsis, the PDI7 promoter exhibits the broadest and highest levels of expression according β-glucuronidase (GUS) promoter fusion studies (CITATION). We therefore focused our attention on the characterization of PDI7. A polyclonal rabbit antiserum was generated and affinity-purified against a truncated version of PDI7 (tcPDI7, amino acids 103–420; Fig. 1A). Western blot analysis confirmed that the affinity-purified antibody was capable of detecting a recombinant version of the central loop region of PDI7 (PDI7CL, amino acids 52–438; Supplementary Fig. S2A). To determine the Arabidopsis tissues in which PDI7 is expressed, proteins were extracted from various tissues of wild-type and pdi7-1 mutant plants. The anti-PDI7 antibody prominently detected a protein of approximately 65 kDa in wild-type cotyledons, leaves, roots, flowers, expanding green siliques and etiolated seedlings, and weakly detected a 65 kDa protein in mature dry siliques (Fig. 2A, upper panel). Transgenic plants ectopically expressing PDI7 under the strong quasi-constitutive Cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter (35S:PDI7) displayed increased abundance of the 65 kDa protein (Fig. 2A, column 9), confirming that the detected protein corresponded to the gene product of PDI7. The 65 kDa protein was not detected by Western blot in tissue samples obtained from pdi7-1 knockout mutants (Fig. 2A, lower panel), except in cotyledons where a faint band of similar size was observed. Thus, PDI7 is expressed at detectable levels across many diverse tissues of Arabidopsis. The faint band observed in cotyledons may be due to the anti-PDI7 antibody cross-reacting with PDI12 and PDI13, although the strong detection of the 65 kDa protein in wild-type tissues relative to comparable pdi7-1 mutant tissues indicates that the contribution of cross-reaction from PDI12 and PDI13 in our Western blot analyses is relatively minor. In addition, the lack of cross-reaction of the anti-PDI7 antibody with other proteins in the pdi7-1 mutant tissues verifies the antibody’s specificity. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Although the observed molecular weight of PDI7 is 65 kDa, its predicted molecular weight by amino acid sequence is only 54 kDa. Since PDI7 contains five Asn–X–Ser/Thr sequons that can potentially serve as sites for asparagine (N)-linked glycosylation, the possibility of PDI7 being a glycoprotein was examined. Proteins extracted from 35S:PDI7 seedlings were treated with the broad spectrum endoglycosidase, peptide N-glycosidase F (PNGase F), which removes N-linked glycan chains by cleaving the bond between asparagine and N-acetylglucosamine (CITATION). Comparison of PNGase F-treated and untreated protein samples by Western blot revealed that endoglycosidase treatment resulted in a significant downward shift in PDI7’s gel mobility (Fig. 2B), indicating that N-glycosylation contributes to the higher than predicted molecular weight of PDI7. To examine the subcellular localization of PDI7 in living plant cells, constructs were generated for the transient expression of PDI7 fused to the green fluorescent protein variant, GFP(S65T). To account for the possibility of GFP(S65T) interfering with sorting signals located proximal to the N- or C-terminus of PDI7, three versions were created: (i) GFP–PDI7, which expresses GFP tagged to the N-terminus of PDI7; (ii) PDI7–GFP–GKNF, which expresses GFP fused to the C-terminus of PDI7, with the very end of GFP modified to include the potential ER retrieval sequence of PDI7 (GKNF); and (iii) PDI7–GFPint, in which GFP was placed internally within PDI7, immediately infront of its catalytic a domain (Fig. 1A). Arabidopsis leaf mesophyll protoplasts were co-transfected with the GFP fusions in combination with ER–mCherry, a marker for the ER lumen consisting of the red fluorescent protein (RFP) variant mCherry fused at the N-terminus to the signal peptide of A. thaliana wall-associated kinase 2, and modified at the C-terminus to include the ER retention signal HDEL (CITATION). As a control, the ER–mCherry marker was also co-expressed with GFP(S65T) that was not fused to PDI7. The distribution patterns of the fluorescent protein fusions were visualized by laser-scanning confocal microscopy. Protoplasts expressing the unfused GFP(S65T) control exhibited diffuse labeling in both the cytosol and nucleus which did not resemble the endomembrane network signal pattern of ER–mCherry (Fig. 3A–D). In contrast, ER–mCherry fluorescence strongly overlapped with the labeling patterns of GFP–PDI7 (Fig. 3E–H) and PDI7–GFP–GKNF (Fig. 3I–L), indicating that the two PDI7 fusions localized to the ER. Interestingly, protoplasts transfected with the PDI7–GFPint construct displayed a labeling pattern that was very different from those of the GFP–PDI7 and PDI7–GFP–GKNF fusions. PDI7–GFPint localized to punctate structures, with the PDI7–GFPint signals in close proximity to the ER–mCherry marker (Fig. 3M–P). Faint ER labeling by PDI7–GFPint was also detected (Fig. 3Q–T). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To determine the nature of the punctate signals produced by PDI7–GFPint expression in protoplasts, the localization pattern of PDI7–GFPint was examined in relation to markers for ERES and the Golgi. Fluorescent protein fusions to the Arabidopsis COPII subunit, SEC24A, accumulate at ERES when expressed in tobacco leaf epidermal cells (CITATION). When the ERES marker mCherry–SEC24A was co-expressed with PDI7–GFPint in Arabidopsis leaf protoplasts, we observed that the two fusions displayed punctate signal patterns that were proximal but mostly non-overlapping (Fig. 4A–D), indicating that PDI7–GFPint did not strongly accumulate at ERES. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] For visualization of the Golgi we utilized two markers. Fluorescent protein fusions to the N-terminus of the syntaxin SYP31 localize to the cis-Golgi (CITATION, CITATION), whereas C-terminal fusions to full-length mannosidase I (ManI), or the first 49 amino acids of ManI (Man49), are described as accumulating in the early compartments of the Golgi (CITATION). Co-expression of PDI7–GFPint and mCherry–SYP31 in protoplasts revealed that PDI7–GFPint strongly co-localized with the cis-Golgi marker (Fig. 4E–H). In contrast, we observed that when PDI7–GFPint was co-expressed with the second Golgi marker, Man49–mCherry, the punctate PDI7–GFPint and Man49–mCherry signals were closely adjacent to each other, but displayed very little overlap (Fig. 4I–L). Although ManI–GFP and Man49–GFP were described as localizing to the ‘cis-half of the Golgi’ due to their incomplete co-localization with the trans -Golgi marker ST52–mRFP (the first 52 amino acids of a rat α-2,6-ST fused to mRFP) (CITATION), immunoelectron microscopy studies have shown that in plants, native ManI primarily localizes to the medial-Golgi cisternae (CITATION). Therefore, the lack of signal overlap between PDI7–GFPint and Man49–mCherry suggests that PDI7–GFPint localizes specifically to the cis-Golgi (as indicated by co-localization with mCherry–SYP31), whereas Man49–mCherry primarily accumulates at the medial Golgi. The fungal lactone antibiotic, brefeldin A (BFA), is often used to study ER–Golgi trafficking due to its disruptive effects on the eukaryotic secretory pathway. Specifically, BFA prevents the formation of COPI-coated vesicles by inhibiting Sec7-type GTP-exchange factors (GEFs) (CITATION), which catalyze the activation of ADP-ribosylation factor 1 (ARF1), a GTPase required for the recruitment of COPI coat proteins to the Golgi membrane (CITATION, CITATION). In addition to blocking the formation of COPI vesicles, BFA also causes certain Golgi compartments to fuse with neighboring ER membranes, leading to an apparent redistribution of several Golgi markers to the ER (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). For example, the Golgi marker ManI–GFP localizes to both an ER-like network and pleiomorphic aggregates when expressed in tobacco Bright Yellow 2 (BY-2) cells treated with 20 µg ml–1 BFA (CITATION). To determine what effect BFA treatment would have on the subcellular localization of PDI7–GFPint, protoplasts expressing both the PDI7–GFPint and Man49–mCherry fusions were treated with 0 µg ml–1 BFA (negative control, Fig. 4M–P) or 10 µg ml–1 BFA (Fig. 4Q–T). Interestingly, whereas protoplasts treated with BFA displayed an ER-like redistribution of Man49–mCherry (Fig. 4R), the PDI7–GFPint fusion exhibited a highly punctate signal pattern in both untreated and BFA-treated protoplasts (Fig. 4M and Q, respectively). In summary, our transient expression experiments indicated that the position of the GFP tag in fusions to PDI7 influences the subcellular targeting of the protein. N-terminal and C-terminal GFP fusions were retained in the ER, while the internal GFP fusion was directed primarily to the cis-Golgi, with only a low level of PDI7–GFPint detected at the ER. Whereas treatment of the protoplasts with BFA caused the Golgi-resident fusion protein Man49–mCherry to redistribute to the ER, PDI7–GFPint retained a punctate localization pattern after BFA treatment. To achieve higher resolution of the subcellular distribution pattern of PDI7, transmission immunoelectron microscopy analyses were performed using the PDI7-specific antibody in conjunction with Arabidopsis tissue sections preserved by high-pressure freezing/freeze substitution. This approach has two major advantages over the protoplast transient expression system. In addition to enabling localization at higher resolution than possible by confocal microscopy, the anti-PDI7 antibody can be used to detect native protein, thereby avoiding the problem of protein sorting being affected by epitope or fluorescent protein tags. In wild-type Arabidopsis root tip cells, anti-PDI7 immunogold labeling was detected at the cis-side of Golgi stacks (Fig. 5A) and at the ER (Fig. 5A, B). Quantitation of anti-PDI7 labeling across 27 micrographs revealed an average of 9.3 ± 5.2 immunogold particles per micrograph, with 41% of anti-PDI7 labeling at the ER and 59% at the Golgi. We did not observe labeling of the Golgi or ER in control experiments when the anti-rabbit IgG secondary antibody was used alone, or when the anti-PDI7 antibody was used on root tip sections of the pdi7-1 knockout mutant (Supplementary Fig S3). These controls indicate that the immunolabeling obtained with the anti-PDI7 antibody on transmission electron microscopy (TEM) sections was specific for PDI7. Since the addition of an HDEL ER-retention signal at the very C-terminus of GFP causes the modified protein to accumulate in the ER and cis-Golgi (CITATION), we compared the distribution patterns of PDI7 and GFP–HDEL to determine if they localize to identical subcellular structures. When root tip sections obtained from 35S:GFP-HDEL transgenic plants were co-incubated with immunogold-labeled anti-PDI7 and anti-GFP antibodies (15 and 5 nm gold particles, respectively), both antibodies were detected at the ER and cis-Golgi as anticipated (Fig. 5C). Anti-PDI7 immunogold labeling of the root tips of 35S:PDI7 overexpression lines revealed a similar staining pattern to that observed in wild-type roots (Fig. 5D). Interestingly, while we did not observe a dramatic increase in Golgi labeling by anti-PDI7 in root tip cells, anti-PDI7 labeling of the Golgi in shoot meristematic cells was greatly increased (Fig. 5E). However, we did not observe a comparable increase in anti-PDI7 labeling of the ER in the 35S:PDI7 shoot meristematic cells (Fig. 5F). Occasionally, anti-PDI7 labeling was observed in vesicles located proximal to the cis-face of the Golgi, consistent with the size and appearance of COPII-coated vesicles (Fig. 5C, G). In Arabidopsis, COPII vesicles are larger than COPI vesicles (∼60 nm and ∼45 nm, respectively), and they exhibit differential staining patterns (CITATION). The vesicle in Fig. 5G has a diameter matching those of COPII vesicles when examined by electron tomography (Supplementary Video S1). We also detected anti-PDI7 labeling in smaller vesicles located at the peripheral edges of cis-Golgi cisternae (Fig. 5A, H), which may correspond to COPI-coated vesicles. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Because PDI7 has two TMDs, the anti-PDI7 labeling of the ER was examined in further detail with respect to lumen vs. membrane labeling. Measurement of the distances of anti-PDI7 immunogold particles from the ER membrane showed that the majority of particles were located proximal (0–10 nm) to the membrane (Fig. 6A, C). In contrast, gold particles labeled with an antibody recognizing the soluble ER lumen chaperone, binding protein (BiP), did not show a strong association with the ER membrane (Fig. 6B, C). The observed association of PDI7 with the ER membrane is consistent with the prediction that PDI7 has two TMDs (CITATION), and is therefore an integral membrane protein. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In the Golgi, anti-PDI7 was primarily observed at the cis-side of the organelle (Fig. 5A, E). To define precisely the localization pattern of PDI7 within the Golgi, immunolabeled serial thin sections of an entire Golgi stack (representative images, Fig. 7A–C) were used to generate an electron tomography model depicting the distribution of anti-PDI7 immunogold particles across the cis- (C1, C2), medial- (C3, C4) and trans- (C5) Golgi cisternae. Based on the tomographic model, PDI7 was almost exclusively located at the cis-Golgi (cisternae C1 and C2; Fig. 7D). Quantification of the distribution of anti-PDI7 labeling over multiple Golgi stacks indicated that approximately 65% of immunogold particles were present at the C1 cisterna, and approximately 30% at the C2 cisterna (Fig. 7E). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The β-strand-rich regions (βN, βC) and single Trx domain (a) of PDI7 are located on a large central loop that is flanked on both ends by TMDs (Fig. 1A). To address whether the Trx-7containing central loop of PDI7 is cytosolic or lumenal, protease protection experiments were performed using microsomal membranes isolated from 35S:PDI7 plants. When proteins extracted from 35S:PDI7 seedlings were separated into soluble and microsomal membrane fractions by centrifugation, PDI7 was detected exclusively in the membrane fraction (Fig. 8A, lane 3 vs. lane 2). Treatment of the membrane fraction with proteinase K resulted in a slight downward shift in the apparent mass of PDI7 (Fig. 8A, lane 4 vs. lane 3). This is consistent with an expected 4 kDa decrease in mass if the central loop of PDI7 is lumenal, and thus protease protected, while the short N- and C-terminal tails of PDI7 (predicted to be ∼2.3 kDa and ∼1.8 kDa, respectively) are cytosolic and therefore vulnerable to digestion by proteinase K (Fig. 8B). Disruption of the membranes by the addition of 0.1% Triton X-100 rendered the central loop of PDI7 susceptible to proteinase K-mediated degradation (Fig. 8A, lane 6), confirming that the central loop is only resistant to protease degradation in the presence of intact microsomal membranes. Combined with our immunolocalization results, these findings indicate that the catalytic a domain of PDI7 is located within the lumen of the ER and cis-Golgi cisternae. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The sequences of all primers used in this study are provided in Supplementary Table S1. All Arabidopsis plants described in this report are in the Columbia-0 (Col-0) ecotype background. Seeds of wild-type Arabidopsis, and the T-DNA insertion lines SAIL_1271_D03 (pdi7-1) and SALK_049017 (pdi7-2), were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC). Homozygous pdi7-1 and pdi7-2 plants were identified by PCR analysis using gene-specific primers flanking the T-DNA insertion sites. The absence of wild-type PDI7 transcripts in homozygous pdi7-1 and pdi7-2 mutant plants was verified by reverse transcription–PCR (RT–PCR; data not shown). To assemble a T-DNA construct for the overexpression of PDI7 in Arabidopsis, the CaMV 35S promoter of binary vector pCAMBIA1302 was amplified by PCR using primers 35S/KpnI-F and 35S/XhoI-R. The 35S promoter fragment (0.6 kb) was inserted between the KpnI and XhoI sites of the cloning vector pBluescript KS(+) for later excision as a KpnI/XmaI fragment, utilizing the XmaI cloning site of the pBluescript KS(+). The PDI7 gene (4.2 kb) was amplified from Arabidopsis genomic DNA, using primers PDI7/XmaI-F and PDI7/BstEII-R. The 35S promoter fragment (KpnI/XmaI) and PDI7 gene fragment (XmaI/BstEII) were inserted in tandem between the KpnI and BstEII sites of pCAMBIA1302 by three-way ligation to create the T-DNA construct, pC1302[35S:PDI7]. The pC1302[35S:PDI7] construct was introduced into wild-type Arabidopsis plants by Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation, using the floral dip method (CITATION). T1 transformants were obtained by screening for hygromycin (hyg) resistance conferred by the T-DNA, and the intactness of the 35S:PDI7 transgene was assessed by PCR. Homozygous 35S:PDI7 lines were identified by segregation analysis of the hyg resistance marker among T3 seedling populations. Except where noted, all Arabidopsis seedlings were germinated vertically on 0.5 × Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 1.5% (w/v) sucrose and solidified with 0.8% (w/v) gellan gum. Liquid cultured plants were grown on the 0.5 × MS, 1.5% sucrose medium without gelling agent. For plants grown in soil, Arabidopsis seedlings were initially grown on 0.5 × MS, 1.5% sucrose medium, then transferred at 1–2 weeks after germination to pots containing Fafard Super Fine Germinating Mix (Sun Gro Horticulture) supplemented with Miracle-Gro All Purpose Plant Food (The Scotts Miracle-Gro Co.). Plants were grown at 22°C (seedlings) or 25°C (soil-grown plants) under a long-day photoperiod (16 h light/8 h dark cycle), except etiolated seedlings, which were grown under constant darkness. Affinity-purified polyclonal rabbit antibodies recognizing PDI7 were generated commercially through YenZym Antibodies, LLC, using a truncated version of PDI7 (tcPDI7; Fig. 1A) as the antigen for both rabbit immunization and affinity purification of the antiserum. For production of recombinant tcPDI7 protein, a cDNA fragment encoding a portion of the central loop region of PDI7 (residues T103–K420) was amplified by RT–PCR with primers tcPDI7/NdeI-F and tcPDI7/BamHI-R, using first-strand cDNA prepared from 7-day-old wild-type Arabidopsis seedlings. The tcPDI7 cDNA fragment was ligated between the NdeI and BamHI sites of the bacterial expression vector pET-15b (EMD Millipore), placing the tcPDI7 sequence in-frame with the 6 × His-tag of pET-15b, and verified by DNA sequencing. Expression of tcPDI7 was induced in Escherichia coli strain BL21(DE3) for 3 h at 28°C by the addition of 0.2 mM isopropyl β-d-1-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG). After induction, the E. coli cells were harvested by centrifugation and lysed using BugBuster Protein Extraction Reagent (EMD Millipore). The His-tagged tcPDI7 protein was purified from inclusion bodies by nickel–nitrilotriacetic acid (Ni-NTA) affinity chromatography. To express the central loop region of PDI7 (PDI7CL) heterologously in bacteria, a cDNA fragment encoding the βN–a–βC intervals of PDI7 (V52–S438) was cloned between the NcoI and NheI sites of pET-25b (EMD Millipore), in-frame with the 6 × His-tag of the vector. The cDNA fragment was amplified from first-strand cDNA prepared from 7-day-old wild-type Arabidopsis seedlings using the primers PDI7V52/NcoI-F and PDI7S438/NheI-R. Expression of PDI7CL was induced in the E. coli strain Rosetta-gami 2 (DE3) for 3 h at 28°C by the addition of 0.4 mM IPTG, and total cell protein extracts were obtained using the BugBuster Protein Extraction Reagent. A 40 µg aliquot of total cell protein extracts from E. coli harboring either the pET-PDI7CL expression construct or the pET-25b empty vector, with or without IPTG induction, were loaded on 10% polyacrylamide gels. The proteins were resolved by SDS–PAGE and transferred to Amersham Protran nitrocellulose membranes (GE Healthcare Life Sciences) by semi-dry electroblotting. Immunoblot analyses were performed using the anti-PDI7 antibody at 1 : 100 dilution and a horseradish peroxidase (HRP)-conjugated anti-rabbit IgG secondary antibody at 1 : 1,000 dilution. The anti-rabbit secondary antibody and the reagents for chemiluminescent detection of HRP were supplied in the Amersham ECL Western Blotting Detection Kit (RPN2108; GE Healthcare Life Sciences). Tissue-specific Western blot analyses were performed using protein samples obtained by the EZ extraction method (CITATION). Light-grown and etiolated whole seedling protein samples were prepared from 7-day-old seedlings, and cotyledons from 4-day-old seedlings, grown vertically on 0.5 × MS solid medium. Roots samples were isolated from 2-week-old seedlings grown in 0.5 × MS liquid medium under constant agitation. Leaves, flowers and siliques were obtained from plants grown on soil. Rosette leaves were collected from 4-week-old plants, flowers and expanding green siliques from 6-week-old plants, and mature brown siliques from 3-month-old plants. A 60 µg aliquot of protein was loaded per lane, resolved by SDS–PAGE and transferred to Amersham Protran nitrocellulose membranes. Immunoblot analyses were performed using the rabbit pre-immune serum (negative control) or the anti-PDI7 antibody at 1 : 100 dilution, and the anti-rabbit HRP-conjugated secondary antibody at 1 : 2,000 dilution. PNGase F treatment of proteins to remove N-linked glycans was performed using the Glycoprofile II Enzymatic In-Solution N-Deglycosylation Kit (PP0201; Sigma-Aldrich) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Proteins were isolated from 7-day-old 35S:PDI7 seedlings using the EZ extraction method, and 50 µg of protein were incubated with 2.5 U of PNGase F at 37°C for 1 h. Both untreated control and deglycosylated protein samples were subjected to SDS–PAGE (10% acrylamide gel), followed by immunoblotting with the anti-PDI7 antibody and the anti-rabbit HRP-conjugated secondary antibody. All constructs used for transient expression analyses in this study were generated in the cloning vector pBluescript KS(+). Transcription from the expression cassette of each construct is driven by the CaMV 35S promoter, and is terminated by the nopaline synthase (nos) terminator. Diagrams of the constructs and a brief description of how they were generated are provided (Supplementary Fig. S4). Protoplasts were isolated from the rosette leaves of 4-week-old Arabidopsis plants and transfected with the fluorescent protein constructs, as described previously (CITATION). The transfected protoplasts were incubated in the dark at 22°C for >18 h to allow for transgene expression. For BFA treatment, after the >18 h incubation period, the protoplasts were allowed to settle by gravity, and the incubation buffer was replaced with fresh buffer containing 0.2% dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO; solvent for BFA), with or without 20 µg ml–1 BFA. The protoplasts were gently resuspended, and incubated for 1 h before visualizing. Fluorescence was visualized using an Olympus FV-1000 laser scanning confocal microscope with excitation/emission filters of 488/505–525 nm for GFP(S65T) and 543/585–615 nm for mCherry. Confocal microscopy was performed at the Biological Electron Microscope Facility (University of Hawaii). Arabidopsis seedlings were grown on 0.6% phytoagar-solidified 0.5 × MS medium at 22°C under continuous light. High-pressure freezing, freeze substitution and immunogold labeling were carried out according to CITATION. In brief, root tip and shoot apical meristem tissues were excised from 5-day-old seedlings and frozen rapidly with a HPM100 high-pressure freezer (Leica Microsystems). Frozen tissue samples were freeze-substituted in anhydrous acetone containing 0.1% uranyl acetate and 0.25% glutaraldehyde at −80°C, and embedded in Lowicryl HM-20 acrylic resin (Ted Pella, Inc.). Sections of 100 nm thickness were prepared from wild-type, 35S:PDI7 and 35S:GFP-HDEL (CITATION) tissue samples and immunolabeled with the anti-PDI7 antibody. To compare localizations of PDI7 with those of GFP–HDEL, the sections from 35S:GFP-HDEL samples were double-labeled with the anti-PDI7 antibody (rabbit) and a mouse monoclonal anti-GFP antibody (sc-9996; Santa Cruz Biotechnology). Then they were labeled with 15 nm gold-conjugated goat anti-rabbit IgG (H+L) (#15727; Ted Pella, Inc.), 18 nm gold-conjugated goat anti-rabbit IgG (H+L) (#711-215-152, Jackson ImmunoResearch Lab) or 5 nm gold-conjugated goat anti-mouse IgG (H+L) (#15750; Ted Pella, Inc.). TEM images were collected with a Hitachi H-7000 transmission electron microscope at 100 kV (Hitachi America, Inc.). To measure the distances of anti-PDI7 and anti-BiP immunogold particles from the ER membrane, sections from wild-type samples were immunolabeled with the anti-PDI7 antibody or with an anti-BiP antibody (sc-33757; Santa Cruz Biotechnology), and the distances of the immunogold particles to the ER membrane were calculated in the TEM images with the ImageJ program (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/; ver 2.0.0-rc-30/1.49S National Institute of Health, USA). Wild-type Arabidopsis TEM samples were prepared as described above. Ultramicrotomy, immunogold labeling with the anti-PDI7 antibody and electron tomography analysis were performed as described in CITATION. Three Golgi stacks exhibiting representative PDI7-specific immunogold labeling patterns were selected and tilt series images from three consecutive sections (200 nm each) were acquired. Dual axis tomograms were constructed from the tilt image series using the IMOD software package, and Golgi membranes were modeled as described in CITATION. To determine which Golgi cisternae were labeled by PDI7-specific immunogold particles, lines connecting the center of each immunogold particle to Golgi cisternal membranes were drawn in the tomograms, and lengths of the lines were measured with the imodinfo command of the IMOD package. Each immunogold particle was assigned to the Golgi cisterna membrane closest to the particle. Microsomal-type membranes were isolated using a protocol adapted from CITATION. Seven-day-old 35S:PDI7 seedlings were homogenized with a chilled mortar and pestle in ice-cold extraction buffer [40 mM HEPES pH 7.5, 0.4% polyvinyl polypyrrolidone (PVP), 1 mM MgCl2, 10 mM KCl and 0.4 M sucrose], at a ratio of 1.5 µl of extraction buffer per 1 mg of plant tissue. To remove insoluble debris, the homogenate was centrifuged twice at 1,000 × g for 3 min at 4°C, collecting the supernatant after each spin. The cleared homogenate was separated into microsomal and soluble protein fractions by centrifuging as 150 µl aliquots at 21,000 × g for 1.5 h at 4°C. The microsomal pellets were washed once with 150 µl of fresh extraction buffer. Microsomal membranes were recovered by centrifuging at 21,000 × g for 45 min at 4°C and removing the supernatant. Finally, the microsomal pellets were resuspended in 150 µl of fresh extraction buffer. To determine the membrane topology of PDI7, 35S:PDI7 resuspended microsomes were incubated at 37°C for 1 h in extraction buffer alone (negative control), or with 50 µg ml–1 proteinase K and/or 0.1% Triton X-100. The total volume of each reaction was 60 µl, and the amount of resuspended microsomal membranes used was a volume equivalent to 60 µg of protein in the cleared homogenate (i.e. prior to separation of the proteins into soluble and microsomal fractions). The proteinase K digestion reactions were stopped by adding 5 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (PMSF) to all samples. The protein samples were resolved by SDS–PAGE on a 10% acrylamide gel, using 20 µl of each microsomal protein treatment, along with the cleared homogenate (20 µg of protein), and an equivalent amount (by volume) of the soluble protein fraction. Immunoblot analysis was performed using the anti-PDI7 antibody at 1 : 100 dilution, and the anti-rabbit HRP-conjugated antibody at 1 : 1,000 dilution.
