!~ABS~! AGD1, a plant ACAP-type ADP-ribosylation factor-GTPase activating protein (ARF-GAP), functions in specifying root hair polarity in Arabidopsis thaliana. To better understand how AGD1 modulates root hair growth, we generated full-length and domain-deleted AGD1-green fluorescent protein (GFP) constructs, and followed their localization during root hair development. AGD1-GFP localized to the cytoplasm and was recruited to specific regions of the root hair plasma membrane (PM). Distinct PM AGD1-GFP signal was first detected along the site of root hair bulge formation. The construct continued to mark the PM at the root hair apical dome, but only during periods of reduced growth. During rapid tip growth, AGD1-GFP labeled the PM of the lateral flanks and dissipated from the apical-most PM. Deletion analysis and a single domain GFP fusion revealed that the pleckstrin homology (PH) domain is the minimal unit required for recruitment of AGD1 to the PM. Our results indicate that differential recruitment of AGD1 to specific PM domains is an essential component of the membrane trafficking machinery that facilitates root hair developmental phase transitions and responses to changes in the root microenvironment.
!~RES~! When an AGD1-GFP construct under the control of its native promoter (AGD1pro:AGD1-GFP) was expressed in the agd1 mutant (CITATION), we found that the wavy root hair growth and two root hair tips from one initiation point defects of the mutant were rescued, indicating that the AGD1-GFP construct was functional (Fig. 1A–F). Consistent with the role of AGD1 in root hair development, the AGD1-GFP signal was enriched in root hair-forming trichoblasts (Fig. 1G). Close examination of AGD1-GFP uncovered three patterns of localization in roots. First, AGD1-GFP signal marked the ends of the cells in the primary root meristem and transition zone, a pattern indicative of PM localization. Second, diffuse AGD1-GFP signal within the cell interior also indicated cytoplasmic localization of the construct. Third, AGD1-GFP was associated with punctate bodies of varying sizes (Fig. 1G,H). In root hair cells, some bodies moved slowly while others moved rapidly throughout the cell (Movie 1).  [[FIGURE]] The AGD1-GFP bodies observed in primary roots and root hairs were reminiscent of fluorescent foci typical of the endomembrane system. Furthermore, previous studies of other Arabidopsis ARF-GAPs showed that they localized to Golgi and post-Golgi compartments leading us to hypothesize that the AGD1-GFP puncta might also represent known endomembrane organelles (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION).To test this hypothesis, we generated Arabidopsis lines expressing both AGD1-GFP and mCherry markers for the TGN/EE, late endosomes/prevacuolar compartment (LE/PVC) and Golgi (CITATION; CITATION), and asked if the AGD1-GFP bodies colocalized with any of the mCherry endomembrane foci. Surprisingly, confocal imaging of growing root hairs revealed that AGD1-GFP bodies did not overlap with compartments decorated by all of the endomembrane mCherry markers available to us (Fig. 2A–D). Imaging of dual-labeled root cells verified that dynamic green and red bodies corresponding to AGD1-GFP and endomembrane-mCherry fusions, respectively, did not overlap (Movies 2 and 3).  [[FIGURE]] Further verification that AGD1-GFP foci were distinct from post-Golgi compartments was obtained by examining roots treated with Brefeldin A (BFA). Upon exposure to 100 µM BFA, TGN/EE-mCherry markers in the root hair formed fluorescent agglomerates, a behavior typical of post-Golgi organelles (CITATION). However, AGD1-GFP remained in discrete foci that did not overlap with the red-emitting BFA bodies (Fig. 2E). We also treated roots with wortmannin, a chemical that triggers homotypic fusion of the LE/PVC in plant cells. When seedlings were exposed to wortmannin, the PVC markers ARA6 (also known as RABF1)-mCherry and RABF2A-mCherry formed structures that were reminiscent of the fused PVCs reported previously (CITATION, CITATION). By contrast, AGD1-GFP remained in discrete foci that did not overlap with the red-emitting fused PVC bodies (Fig. 2F). In addition to its localization to unknown foci and the cytoplasm, we found that AGD1-GFP marked the PM of developing root hairs. AGD1-GFP signal in root hair PM was first detected at a domain of the trichoblast where a small root hair bulge formed (Fig. 3A). This observation was in contrast to other proteins known to mark the site of root hair emergence such as the Rho of Plants (ROP) family of small GTPases, which have been reported to accumulate at the PM of the root hair initiation site prior to bulge formation (CITATION; CITATION). Indeed, no AGD1-GFP signal at the PM of root hair initiation sites could be observed in files of trichoblasts in the root transition and elongation zones (Fig. S1A,B). By contrast, in wild-type plants, a ROP2 (also known as ARAC4)-enhanced yellow fluorescent protein fusion (ROP2-EYFP) (CITATION) accumulated at the PM of the root hair initiation site prior to the appearance of a root hair bulge (Fig. S1C,D).  [[FIGURE]] We next followed the time course of AGD1-GFP PM localization as root hairs transitioned through the various developmental phases. We found that AGD1-GFP continued to mark the apical-most PM domains of expanding root hair bulges, and as they transitioned to tip growth (Fig. 3B–E; phase 1–2) (CITATION). However, as root hairs proceeded to rapid tip growth (phase 3), AGD1-GFP localization to the apical-most PM domain became less intense and eventually dissipated. Distinct AGD1-GFP signal was confined to the PM of the root hair flanks while gradually weakening as root hairs continued to rapidly elongate (Fig. 3F–H; phase 3). As the root hairs matured and tip growth ceased, intense AGD1-GFP fluorescence returned to the apical-most PM domain (Fig. 3I; phase 4) (CITATION). Finally, AGD1-GFP signal at all PM domains of the root hair dissipated as the cytoplasm dispersed and the vacuole protruded toward the tip (Fig. 3J). We quantified changes in AGD1-GFP PM localization by obtaining the ratio of PM tip fluorescence to PM fluorescence along the lateral flanks of root hairs. In the case of root hair bulges, PM fluorescence along the more apical (shoot-directed) PM was obtained following the method of CITATION (Fig. 3K, inset). Plotting root hair growth rate and the AGD1-GFP tip/flank fluorescence ratio as a function of time in a double Y graph revealed that a higher tip/flank ratio was associated with periods of slower root hair growth (Fig. 3K). Slower root hair growth occurred during the onset of bulge formation and as the root hair transitioned to tip growth (phase 1 and 2) (CITATION), and then again as the root hairs matured (phase 4) (CITATION). During periods of rapid tip growth (phase 3), the tip to flank AGD1-GFP PM fluorescence ratio was significantly lower (Fig. 3K). A scatter plot revealed a strong inverse relationship between root hair growth rate and AGD1-GFP PM fluorescence with a Pearson's correlation coefficient of −0.615 (Fig. 3L). Our results support that AGD1 location at distinct PM domains is correlated with root hair growth status. Whereas AGD1-GFP localization at the apical-most PM domain was associated with slower root hair growth rate during phase 1, 2 and 4, signal at the PM tip dissipated and was confined to the lateral PM in rapidly elongating root hairs at phase 3 (Fig. 3). We therefore hypothesized that when AGD1 is localized to the apical-most PM domain of the root hair tip, it functions in fine-tuning tip growth, most likely as a negative regulator. To test this hypothesis, we prematurely terminated the growth of root hairs at phase 3 by subjecting seedlings expressing AGD1-GFP to a hyperosmotic shock using mannitol. Prior to mannitol application, young (∼20–30 µm in length) and old (>50 µm in length) root hairs of lines expressing the AGD1-GFP fusion at phase 3 showed the typical flank PM localization and lack of GFP signal at the apical-most PM domain (Fig. 4A). Liquid growth medium supplemented with 500 mM mannitol was then injected into the semi-solid gel that supported the seedling roots, and roots were immediately imaged. Within 1 min of mannitol application, we found intense AGD1-GFP signal at the apical-most PM domain of root hairs at phase 3 that coincided with shrinkage of the tip cytoplasm and stoppage of tip growth (Fig. 4A). We observed that many root hairs at phase 3 were able to resume tip growth within 5–10 min after exposure to mannitol. Resumption of tip growth was accompanied by dissipation of AGD1-GFP fluorescence at the apical-most PM domain and relocalization of the fusion protein to the lateral PM, an observation reminiscent of changes in the localization of the fusion protein as root hairs transitioned from slow tip growth in phase 2 to rapid tip growth in phase 3 (Fig. 4B,C; compare to Fig. 3E–H).  [[FIGURE]] The correlation between AGD1-GFP localization to the apical-most root hair PM apex and root hair growth status was also observed in other treatments that inhibited tip growth. For example, like mannitol, treatment with sodium chloride (NaCl) led to relocalization of AGD1-GFP to the apical-most PM domain of phase 3 root hairs within 1 min. However, unlike in mannitol, phase 3 root hairs exposed to NaCl were not able to quickly resume tip growth. As such, localization to the apical-most PM domain persisted in these nongrowing root hairs (Fig. 4D). Taken together, our results support that recruitment of AGD1 to the apical-most PM domain of root hair is associated with root hairs that either grow slowly or terminate tip growth due to an external stimulus. Previous characterization of the agd1 mutant focused on the wavy growth patterns of elongating root hairs at phase 3 (CITATION, CITATION). Although the increased frequency of two root hairs emerging from one initiation point in agd1 mutants is consistent with the localization of AGD1 at the PM of root hair bulges observed here (Fig. 1B and Fig. 3A–C) (CITATION, CITATION), it is possible that other phenotypes related to root hair initiation might have been overlooked. We therefore asked whether agd1 exhibited any planar polarity defects, given that AGD1-GFP localized at the PM during early root hair bulge formation (Fig. 3). In root hair development, planar polarity refers to the position of the root hair initiation site, which is typically directed toward the basal end of the trichoblast (CITATION; CITATION). We found that there was a slight, but statistically significant, apical (shoot-directed) shift in root hair position in agd1 mutants compared to wild type (Fig. 5A,B). Like other root hair phenotypes, this mild apical shift in planar polarity was reversed in agd1 lines expressing the AGD1pro:AGD1-GFP construct (Fig. 5B). Our results indicate that AGD1 has a subtle role in defining the position of root hair initiation sites.  [[FIGURE]] The plant class 1 ARF-GAPs are the most complex as they have three other domains in addition to the catalytic GAP domain (CITATION). However, the contribution of these domains to AGD1 function and subcellular localization has never been addressed. We therefore generated a series of AGD1-GFP constructs with single protein domains deleted. The constructs were placed under the control of an estradiol-inducible promoter (pER8) (CITATION) and expressed in the agd1 mutant background to simultaneously test functionality of the domain deletion constructs and impact of the deleted domains on AGD1 localization. For unknown reasons, we were unable to isolate agd1 lines expressing AGD1-GFP fusions with only the BAR domain deleted (pER8:AGD1ΔBAR-GFP). The constructs we were able to analyze included PH (pER8:AGD1ΔPH-GFP), GAP (pER8:AGD1ΔGAP-GFP) and ANK (pER8:AGD1ΔANK-GFP) domain deletions as well as full-length AGD1 (pER8:AGD1-GFP) (Fig. 6A). Non-induced agd1 mutants expressing pER8:AGD1-GFP and all deletion domain constructs showed the root hair polarity defects observed in untransformed agd1, including the increased frequency of two root hairs originating from a single initiation point (Fig. 6B; Fig. S2A). By contrast, and consistent with results obtained with the AGD1pro:AGD1-GFP-complemented agd1 lines (see Fig. 1A–F), induction with estradiol rescued the root hair defects of agd1 expressing the pER8:AGD1-GFP construct, indicating functionality of the full-length AGD1 fusion under the pER8 inducible system (Fig. 6B; Fig. S2B). However, root hair defects of agd1-expressing pER8:AGD1ΔPH-GFP, pER8:AGD1ΔANK-GFP and pER8:AGD1ΔGAP-GFP were not rescued by estradiol application (Fig. 6B; Fig. S2C–E).  [[FIGURE]] Upon examination of GFP signals in root hairs of the estradiol-induced seedlings, we found that pER8:AGD1-GFP lines showed AGD1-GFP patterns at the root hair PM that mirrored the spatiotemporal changes observed in the AGD1pro:AGD1-GFP-complemented agd1 lines. Like AGD1pro:AGD1-GFP lines, estradiol-induced pER8:AGD1-GFP lines showed fluorescent signal that marked the PM of bulging root hairs, the lateral PM of root hairs undergoing rapid tip growth, and the PM at the apical-most PM domain of root hairs that ceased growth (Fig. 6C). AGD1-GFP signal resulting from inducible expression of the pER8 promoter was generally weaker compared to the AGD1pro:AGD1-GFP lines. Furthermore, the unidentified bodies that were typically observed in AGD1pro:AGD1-GFP-expressing lines were not as numerous as in estradiol-induced pER8:AGD1-GFP lines (Fig. 6C). We next examined the localization of the three AGD1-GFP domain-deleted constructs after estradiol induction. We found that AGD1ΔPH-GFP no longer marked the PM and was exclusively in the cytoplasm during all phases of root hair development (Fig. 6D). By contrast, AGD1ΔGAP-GFP and AGD1ΔANK-GFP still marked the PM of bulging root hairs and the PM along the flanks of root hairs that proceeded to tip growth, a pattern that roughly mirrored that of full-length AGD1-GFP (Fig. 6E,F). Compared to full-length AGD1-GFP and AGD1ΔGAP-GFP, the signal of AGD1ΔANK-GFP was generally weaker. The AGD1ΔGAP-GFP and AGD1ΔANK-GFP constructs did not complement the agd1 root hair shape defects, and their localization along the PM flanks of phase 3 root hairs was often asymmetric (Fig. 6E,F). The AGD1ΔPH-GFP and AGD1ΔANK-GFP constructs did not label the unidentified bodies decorated by full-length AGD1-GFP. Although the AGD1ΔGAP-GFP construct also labeled numerous fluorescent aggregates, these foci were smaller and more heterogeneous in size compared to those marked by full-length AGD1-GFP. The localization of the AGD1-GFP deletion constructs indicated that the PH domain is required for PM localization. However, because we were unable to isolate plant lines expressing the inducible AGD1ΔBAR-GFP fusion, we could not conclude if the BAR domain contributed to the recruitment of AGD1 to the root hair PM. To address this question, we generated a GFP construct to the AGD1 PH domain alone (pER8:PH-GFP) and expressed it in the agd1 mutant. Upon induction with estradiol, we found that PH-GFP had diffuse signal in the root hair cytoplasm that was more intense than the cytosolic signal observed in full-length AGD1 and the other AGD1-deletion constructs. Despite the strong cytoplasmic signal, PH-GFP could be detected in the PM as the root hair progressed through the different developmental phases (Fig. 7A–F). However, unlike full-length AGD1-GFP or the GAP and ANK AGD1-GFP deletion constructs, PH-GFP was often observed to maintain PM localization at the apical-most PM domain of root hairs (Fig. 7E,F). Like the GAP and ANK deletion constructs, PH-GFP did not complement the agd1 root hair defects. Localization of PH-GFP was also often observed to be unevenly localized to the PM along the lateral flanks as root hairs developed (e.g. Fig. 7D). PH-GFP tip/flank fluorescence was quantified in a similar manner to that for AGD1-GFP (see Fig. 3K). Like full-length AGD1-GFP, there was an inverse relationship between PH-GFP PM localization and root hair growth rate (Fig. 7G). However, a scatter plot and Pearson's correlation analysis indicated a weaker inverse relationship between PH-GFP PM localization and root hair growth rate (Pearson's correlation coefficient=−0.284) when compared with full-length AGD1-GFP (Fig. 7H).  [[FIGURE]] The PH domain is known to bind PIs. In doing so, proteins that have them are recruited to specific cell membrane regions by binding to PIs that are enriched in that particular membrane (CITATION). We therefore hypothesized that AGD1, through its PH domain, could be targeted to the root hair PM by binding to specific pools of PIs that are enriched in root hair cells. To test this hypothesis, we first asked whether the AGD1 PH domain alone is capable of directly binding PIs. We cloned the AGD1 PH domain and generated a glutathione-S-transferase (GST)-AGD1-PH domain construct (GST-PH). Purified GST-PH, or GST alone, was used in lipid overlay assays on nitrocellulose strips blotted with a range of phospholipids. We found that GST-PH, but not the GST only controls, bound to PI monophosphates, namely phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate [PI(3)P], phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate [PI(4)P] and phosphatidylinositol 5-phosphate [PI(5)P] (Fig. 7I). Direct binding of the AGD1 PH domain to PI monophosphates prompted us to next ask if the localization of specific PIs in root hair cells mirrored that of PH-GFP. To address this question, we followed the localization of in vivo PI(3)P (YFP-2XFYVE) and PI(4)P (YFP-FAPP1) markers (CITATION) during root hair development. We found that YFP-2XFYVE localized to endosomes and the tonoplast, similar to a previous report (CITATION), but did not label the PM in phase 1 and phase 2 root hairs (Fig. 7J). By contrast, YFP-FAPP1 marked the PM of root hairs in a similar manner to PH-GFP. Like PH-GFP and full-length AGD1-GFP, YFP-FAPP1 fluorescence was not enriched at the PM of the future root hair initiation site (Fig. 7K). A clear enrichment of YFP-FAPP1 PM fluorescence only became obvious when there was a visible root hair bulge (Fig. 7L). The PI(4)P biosensor continued to mark the PM as the root hair bulge enlarged and proceeded to broadly label the tip and flank PM as the root hairs proceeded to phase 3 (Fig. 7M). As root hairs rapidly elongated, YFP-FAPP1 signal became strongest along the apical 10 µm of the tip, similar to previous reports (Fig. 7N) (CITATION; CITATION). The enrichment of YFP-FAPP1 along a broad region of the PM apical dome of phase 3 root hairs resembled that of PH-GFP localization (see Fig. 7E,F). Like PH-GFP, YFP-FAPP1 PM localization and root hair growth rate had an inverse relationship (Fig. 7O,P). The similar patterns of PH-GFP and YFP-FAPP1 enrichment during root hair development suggest that enriched pools of PI(4)P recruits AGD1 to the PM. Furthermore, our results on the localization of AGD1ΔPH-GFP (Fig. 6D) and PH-GFP (Fig. 7A-F) support the conclusion that the PH domain is the minimal unit needed for targeting AGD1 to the root hair PM.
!~MM~! The AGD1 promoter was amplified using the primers AGD1pro F and AGD1proR. The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) product was cloned to the pDONRP4-P1R vector (Invitrogen) by the Gateway BP reaction. For the AGD1 open reading frame (ORF), the primers AGD1F and AGD1R were used to amplify the AGD1 gene and clone it to the pENTR D-Topo vector (Invitrogen). Arabidopsis genomic DNA isolated from 10-day-old seedlings was used as a template for the PCR reaction. The AGD1pro:AGD1-GFP fusion construct was generated by incorporating the AGD1 promoter and AGD1 ORF entry clones into the R4pGWB450 vector through the LR reaction (CITATION). AGD1-GFP deletion constructs were generated using the estradiol-inducible expression vector pER8 (CITATION). Complementary DNA (cDNA) of AGD1 was amplified from 10-day-old seedlings by PCR using primers AGD1-XhoI-F/AGD1-SpeI-R and cloned into pER8. The g3GFP DNA fragment was amplified using AGD1pro:AGD1-GFP as a template and fused to the SpeI site at the C-terminus of AGD1 to generate pER8:AGD1-GFP. To generate the AGD1 deletion constructs, a similar strategy was used. In the case of pER8:AGD1ΔPH-GFP, for example, the N-terminal BAR domain and the C-terminal GAP-ANK domains of AGD1 were amplified using primers AGD1-XhoI-F/268-EcoRI-R and 457-EcoRI-F/AGD1-SpeI-R, respectively. The two DNA fragments were sequentially cloned into the pBluescript II vector. The resulting DNA was then cloned into the XhoI/SpeI sites of the pER8 vector, and the g3GFP fragment was fused into the SpeI site at the C-terminus. Primers used to generate the constructs are shown in Table S1. The agd1-1 mutant (CITATION) was transformed with AGD1pro:AGD1-GFP and inducible pER8 constructs using the floral dip method (CITATION). Antibiotic-resistant seedlings with GFP signal were selected using an SZX12 stereofluorescence microscope (Olympus America). Arabidopsis seeds were sterilized with 95% (v/v) ethanol and 20% (v/v) bleach. Seeds were planted on 0.5% phyta-agar supplemented with half strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) salts, 1% sucrose, and the vitamins pyridoxine-HCl (0.5 mg/ml), nicotinic acid (0.5 mg/ml) and thiamine (1 mg/ml), layered onto 48×64 mm cover slips as detailed in CITATION. Coverslips were placed in 90 mm Petri dishes and positioned at a 20° angle from the vertical, under a 14 h-light–10 h-dark cycle at 22°C to allow primary roots to grow along the surface of the coverslips. Five days after planting, coverslips containing the seedlings were transferred to the stage of an UltraView ERS spinning disc confocal microscope (Perkin-Elmer Life and Analytical Sciences) or an SP8 X point scanning confocal microscope (Leica Microsystems) equipped with 40× or 63× water-immersion objectives. GFP was excited using the 488-nm line of the argon laser, and emission was detected at 510 nm. For lines expressing the pER8-inducible constructs, MS medium containing 10–20 µM estradiol was applied directly to seedling roots using a 10 ml syringe. Seedlings were observed 24 h after induction. Time-lapse sequences and single time point images were captured using the spinning disc confocal microscope running Improvision Volocity acquisition software version 5.4.2 (Perkin Elmer) or the SP8 X running LAS AF software (Leica Microsystems). Root hair images were obtained at a fixed focal plane that spanned the median of the cell. For time-lapse microscopy, images were captured every 1 s for 1 min. To analyze expression patterns in primary roots of AGD1pro: AGD1-GFP lines, a series of optical sections were taken at 0.5 µm intervals and merged using the isosurface rendering function of Volocity 5.4.2 visualization software (Perkin Elmer). Root hair growth rates from lines expressing AGD1-GFP, PH-GFP and YFP-FAPP1 were obtained by capturing single optical confocal images from trichoblasts every 10 min for 80 min. Images corresponding to the first time points were captured from root hair bulges that were 2–5 µm in length. Root hair growth rate expressed as µm/min was calculated by first measuring the displacement of the root hair tip overtime for every 10 min time point and dividing this number by 10. AGD1-GFP, PH-GFP and YFP-FAPP1 fluorescence was quantified from the same root hairs in which growth rate was measured. A 2 pixel line ∼10 µm in length was drawn along the root hair cell edges that corresponded to the PM of the tip and flanks (see inset in Fig. 3K), and average fluorescence intensity was acquired using Image J (https://imagej.nih.gov/ij/). The ratio of average tip and flank fluorescence intensity was obtained, and presented as relative fluorescence. AGD1pro: AGD1-GFP lines were crossed with plants expressing the WAVE-mCherry collection of membrane markers (CITATION) or directly transformed with mCherry-G-rk Golgi (CITATION) and ARA6-mCherry constructs. The mCherry-Golgi and WAVE lines were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Research Center (Columbus, OH). The ARA6-mCherry construct was made by subcloning into a pCAMBIA1390 vector that had the cauliflower mosaic virus (35S) promoter. Full-length ARA6 was amplified from genomic DNA from 10-day-old seedlings using the primers ARA6-SalI-F and ARA6-BamHI-R (Table S1). Plants emitting both green and red fluorescence were selected under a stereo fluorescence microscope and propagated for seed. Seedlings were imaged using the sequential scanning mode of the SP8 X confocal microscope. The PH domain, which spanned 867–1281 base pairs of the AGD1 gene, was PCR amplified from cDNA obtained from 10-day-old seedlings with gene-specific primers AGD1-PH-BamH1-F and AGD1-PH-Sal1-R (Table S1). The PCR product was cloned into the pGEX5X-1 GST vector at the BamH1 and Sal1 sites. For protein expression, the construct was transformed into BL21 cells and grown in 5 ml Luria-Bertani (LB) broth (Thermo Fisher Scientific) overnight at 37°C. The culture was induced with 1 mM isopropyl-β-D-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) (Thermo Fisher Scientific) and incubated for an additional 3 h. Cells were then lysed and proteins purified by incubation in GST resin (Qiagen). Proteins were resolved on a polyacrylamide gel and detected by Coomassie staining. For the lipid overlay assays, ∼2.5 µg GST or GST-PH proteins were incubated with the PI membranes (Echelon Biosciences) at 4°C overnight, and bound proteins were detected with anti-GST HRP-conjugated antibody (Abcam). All values are expressed as mean±standard error of the mean (s.e.m.). Measurements were obtained from at least four independent experiments with 10 seedlings per experiment. One-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) followed by post hoc Tukey's Honestly Significant Difference (HSD) test (SPSS version 23) were used to determine statistical differences among means. For determining differences in root hair planar polarity, the nonparametric Kolmogorov–Smirnov test was used to test the null hypothesis that distribution of relative root hair position between two genotypes (e.g. wild type versus agd1) are similar. The null hypothesis was rejected if P<0.01. A total of 178 cells from ∼30 seedlings were measured. To determine the relationship between root hair growth rate and AGD1-GFP, PH-GFP or YFP-FAPP1 fluorescence, Pearson's correlation analysis was used. The inverse relationship between root hair growth rate and tip/flank fluorescence was determined to be statistically significant if P≠0 based on 120 pairwise measurements.
