!~ABS~! Dynamin, a GTP‐binding protein found in rat brain, plays a role in endocytosis. Suborganellar fractionation studies of Arabidopsis leaf tissue revealed that a dynamin‐like protein, ADL1, is localized in the thylakoid membranes of chloroplasts. This notion was supported further by in vivo targeting experiments using an ADL1‐green fluorescent fusion protein and immunogold labeling with the anti‐ADL1 antibody. Transgenic plants harboring various deletion mutant genes of ADL1 had a yellow leaf phenotype where the cells had very few chloroplasts. In addition, the remaining chloroplasts appeared morphologically not fully developed. The detailed structure of the chloroplasts revealed by electron microscopy showed a greatly reduced amount of thylakoid membranes. Also, the level of thylakoid membrane proteins such as the light‐harvesting complex II and CP29 was greatly reduced in these transgenic plants. When we examined the expression of the ADL1 deletion mutant genes, these genes were highly expressed at the transcriptional level. However, the mutant ADL1s were not detectable at the protein level by Western blot analysis. Moreover, the endogenous ADL1 protein level was greatly reduced in these transgenic plants, probably due to a post‐transcriptional silencing effect of the transgenes. We propose, therefore, that ADLl is involved in the biogenesis of thylakoid membranes.
!~RES~! In order to study intracellular trafficking in plants, we first attempted to isolate a cDNA encoding a dynamin homolog from Arabidopsis. Degenerate oligonucleotides corresponding to the conserved GTP‐binding motif were used as probes for library screening (CITATION; CITATION). The cDNA clone, ADL1, isolated from an Arabidopsis leaf λgt11 cDNA library had exactly the same sequence as the Arabidopsis aG68 cDNA (CITATION). Using this cDNA, we investigated the biological role of the encoded protein, ADL1, in Arabidopsis. We first employed Western blot analysis using a polyclonal antibody raised against the N‐terminal region (∼300 amino acid residues starting from the initiation codon) of ADL1. The Western blot analysis of cell extracts from leaf, root, flower and silique tissue showed that ADL1 was present in all tissues examined (data not shown). This result is in a good agreement with the Northern data of CITATION which showed that the aG68 gene was transcribed at high levels in leaf, root, flower and silique tissue. To characterize the protein further, we then examined the cellular localization of ADL1 in leaf tissue by Western blot analysis. The leaf tissue was homogenized gently and fractionated on a Percoll gradient. The top fraction of the Percoll gradient was fractionated further into supernatant and pellet fractions by ultracentrifugation. As shown in FIG-REF, the majority of ADL1 was co‐purified with the chloroplasts (either intact or broken). Only a minor portion was present in the top fraction of the Percoll gradient. When the top fraction was fractionated again by ultracentrifugation, ADL1 stayed with the membranes in the pellet fraction. However, upon longer exposure, a weak band appeared consistently in the supernatant of the ultracentrifugation step, indicating that a very small amount of ADL1 may be present in a soluble form. [[FIGURE]] Since the chloroplast is composed of multiple suborganelles, we pursued the question of the localization of ADL1 within the chloroplast even further. The intact chloroplasts were lysed and subsequently fractionated into supernatant and pellet by low speed centrifugation. After this fractionation, the pellet contains thylakoid membranes and the supernatant contains chloroplast envelope membranes as well as soluble stromal proteins. The proteins in the supernatant and pellet were separated by SDS‐PAGE and probed with the anti‐ADL1 antibody. As shown in FIG-REF, the majority of ADL1 was present in the pellet containing the thylakoid membranes, and only a minor portion remained in the supernatant. When the supernatant was fractionated further into a soluble and a pellet fraction by ultracentrifugation, most of the ADL1 co‐purified with the membranes in the pellet fraction (data not shown), indicating that the small amount of ADL1 in the supernatant of the low speed centrifugation is very likely attached to the membranes of the chloroplast envelope. As a control for the suborganellar fractionation of the chloroplast, an identical blot was probed with a polyclonal antibody raised against OEP34, a subunit of the chloroplast protein import complex localized on the outer membrane of the chloroplast (CITATION). The antibody recognized a protein species in the supernatant as expected. Thus the control experiment confirms that there is very little, if any, contamination of chloroplast membranes in the thylakoid fraction. These results clearly establish that the majority of ADL1 in chloroplasts is present in the thylakoid membranes, although a minor portion may be present in the membranes of the chloroplast envelope. In order to understand better the association of ADL1 with the thylakoid membranes, we treated the thylakoid membrane fraction with high salt (1.0 M NaCl) or high pH (0.1 M Na2CO3, pH 11.5) and subsequently precipitated the thylakoid membranes by low speed centrifugation. The amount of ADL1 remaining in the pellet was then examined by Western blot analysis. As shown in FIG-REF, a large portion of ADL1 was washed away at high pH, indicating that ADL1 is a peripheral membrane protein. In another experiment, the thylakoid membrane fraction was digested with thermolysin in the presence or absence of Triton X‐100 and then examined for the presence of ADL1 by Western blot analysis. As shown in FIG-REF, ADL1 was digested away under both conditions, suggesting that ADL1 is most likely located on the outward‐facing side of the thylakoid membranes. [[FIGURE]] As an alternative approach to show the presence of ADL1 in the chloroplasts, we employed an in vivo targeting experiment using green fluorescent protein (GFP) tagging on ADL1 (CITATION; CITATION). We generated a fusion protein between ADL1 and smGFP (ADL1‐smGFP). We also fused the transit peptide of the chlorophyll a/b‐binding protein (Cab) to smGFP (Cab‐smGFP) in order to use it as a control protein for chloroplast targeting (CITATION; CITATION) (FIG-REF). DNA constructs encoding the two fusion proteins and smGFP were introduced into soybean suspension culture cells (soybean photoauxotrophic cell, SB‐P) by the particle bombardment method (CITATION). Expression of the introduced genes was examined under a fluorescence microscope. As shown in FIG-REF, the majority of the ADL1‐smGFP fusion protein was targeted to the chloroplast as indicated by the green fluorescent staining of the chloroplasts. The staining pattern was nearly identical to that of Cab‐smGFP. In contrast to ADL1‐smGFP and Cab‐smGFP, smGFP remained in the cytosol as expected. In addition, there was a weak staining at the boundary of the cells transformed with the ADL1‐smGFP fusion gene, suggesting that a minor portion of ADL1‐smGFP might be targeted to the plasma membrane. [[FIGURE]] To obtain direct evidence for the presence of ADL1 in the thylakoid membranes, we employed the immunogold labeling method using the polyclonal anti‐ADL1 antibody. Four‐week‐old leaf tissue was fixed and processed for immunogold labeling. As shown in FIG-REF, the immunogold label concentrated in the chloroplasts. The majority of the label was located in the thylakoid membranes, with only minor labeling of the membranes of the chloroplast envelope. Thus, the results of the immunogold labeling experiment are in agreement with those of the Western blot analysis described in FIG-REF. [[FIGURE]] To gain insight into the biological role of ADL1 in the chloroplasts, we decided to generate dominant‐negative mutants by expressing mutant forms of the ADL1 cDNA in transgenic plants. The deletion mutant genes shown in FIG-REF were constructed, and transgenic plants were generated by the Agrobacterium‐mediated transformation method (CITATION). The deletion constructs were under the control of the 35S cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) promoter to obtain strong expression in leaf tissue. The T1 generation of the transformants was rescreened for kanamycin resistance. We then examined the transgenic plants visually for phenotypic changes. As shown in FIG-REF, one obvious phenotypic effect was manifested in the yellow leaves of the transgenic plants. The yellow leaf phenotype was reproducible in the T2 generation. The transgenic plants retained the phenotype when grown in soil, but at a somewhat reduced frequency. This phenotype was observed in many independent lines of transgenic plants derived from the same deletion mutant gene and from different deletion mutant genes, albeit that it differed in frequency and severity as shown in Table I. The results strongly suggest that the yellow leaf phenotype is caused by the introduction of the mutant gene. The variation in the frequency of the phenotype between the transgenic lines and between the plants with various deletion mutant genes is probably due to the randomness in their integration into the genome. [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]] In search for the mechanism underlying the yellow leaf phenotype, we further characterized the transgenic plants. First, we examined the expression of the introduced deletion mutant genes by Northern blot analysis using total RNA obtained from the respective transgenic plants. The transgenic plants showed a high level of expression of the deletion mutant genes as expected. A typical result of Northern blot analysis is shown in FIG-REF. We also carried out Western blot analysis to measure the accumulation of the truncated proteins encoded by the deletion mutant genes. Surprisingly, we found no accumulation of any truncated form of ADL1, regardless of which deletion mutant gene had been introduced. An example of Western blot analysis is shown in FIG-REF. In order to rule out the possibility that a frameshift mutation occurred during the construction of the deletion mutant genes, we translated the deletion constructs in vitro using wheat germ extract and examined the translation products by Western blot analysis with the anti‐ADL1 antibody. We observed that the deletion constructs not only yielded the expected truncated forms of ADL1, but also that the in vitro translated products were recognized by the anti‐ADL1 antibody (data not shown). In contrast to the absence of accumulated truncated ADL1s, the transgenic plants showed various levels of endogenous ADL1 ranging from the control level to >10‐fold reduced levels. The Western blot results thus stand in contrast to the Northern blot results. A possible explanation for this may be a post‐transcriptional silencing effect by the introduced deletion mutant gene on the endogenous gene in the transgenic plants, in spite of our initial attempt to create a dominant‐negative effect when introducing the deletion mutant genes. It has been shown before that gene silencing can occur either at the transcriptional level or at the post‐transcriptional level (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To address the phenotypic changes at the cellular level, sections of leaf tissue were examined under a microscope. In the leaves of the transgenic plants, the overall size of individual cells was slightly enlarged, while the number of cells was reduced. However, the most prominent changes in the transgenic plants occurred in the number and the morphology of the chloroplasts. The cells in the leaf tissue contained almost no or only very few chloroplasts. Furthermore, the remaining chloroplasts in the transgenic plants appeared to be not fully developed. We examined these chloroplasts with an electron microscope. As shown in FIG-REF and FIG-REF, they show a marked reduction in the amount of thylakoid membranes without grana stacks. Instead the chloroplasts in the leaf cells of the transgenic plants had more lipid granules (plastoglobules, Pg) and were filled with small particulates. Usually the chloroplasts of a mature leaf cell exhibit thylakoid membranes that are organized into grana stacks at a high density, as shown in FIG-REF and FIG-REF (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We also addressed the changes in the level of thylakoid membrane polypeptides in the transgenic plants. Total cell protein was extracted from transgenic plants harboring pBI121 (a transformation vector) and the deletion mutant genes, and probed with polyclonal antibodies raised against maize proteins CP29, and the light‐harvesting complex II (CITATION). As shown in FIG-REF, the amount of thylakoid membrane proteins such as CP29 and the LHCII complex was greatly reduced in the transgenic plants harboring the deletion mutant genes (ADL1del1 and ADL1del2) as compared with the control transgenic plants (pBI121) when equal amount of total protein was separated by SDS‐PAGE. The level of these polypeptides correlated well with that of ADL1 in the transgenic plants. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Therefore, our results strongly suggest that the cells in the leaf tissue of transgenic plants are defective with regard to the accumulation of thylakoid membranes as well as thylakoid membrane proteins in their chloroplasts. In addition, there were other changes, such as a reduction in the volume of the cytosol as well as in the number of mitochondria; however, it is not clear whether these changes were the direct effect of the reduced ADL1 level or the indirect consequence of poor chloroplast development.
!~MM~! To prepare a specific antibody, the N‐terminal region containing ∼300 amino acid residues (ADL1‐N) was expressed in E.coli using pRSET B (Invitrogen, Inc.). The construct was then transformed into BL21 (DE3) pLysS cells and the encoded protein was induced according to the manufacturer‘s protocol (Invitrogen, Inc.). Since most of the expressed protein was found in the inclusion body fraction, the protein was purified by Ni+‐NTA affinity chromatography under denaturing conditions following the manufacturer’s instructions (QIAGEN). The protein was purified further by SDS‐PAGE and injected into a rabbit to raise antibody (CITATION). The antibody was affinity‐purified using the purified ADL1‐N protein (CITATION). Total RNA was prepared from transgenic plants and used for Northern blot analysis using the ADL1 cDNA as a hybridization probe (CITATION). Plants were grown on MS plates at 20°C for 2 weeks. Homogenates were prepared and separated into top, broken chloroplast and intact chloroplast fractions on a Percoll step gradient (CITATION; CITATION). The intact chloroplasts were lysed and fractionated further into a supernatant and a pellet fraction (CITATION). To investigate the nature of the ADL1 association with the thylakoids, the thylakoid fraction was treated with 1.0 M NaCl or 0.1 M Na2CO3 (pH 11.5) on ice for 30 min and then centrifuged at 5000 g for 10 min. The pellet was resuspended to the original volume in 10 mM Tris‐HCl, pH 7.5, and 2 mM EDTA and analyzed via Western blot analysis. For protease treatment of ADL1 in the thylakoid membranes, the thylakoid fraction was treated with thermolysin in the presence or absence of 1% Triton X‐100 at room temperature for 10 min. Western blot analysis was carried out according to a published protocol using the anti‐ADL11 antibody as the primary antibody and the horseradish peroxidase‐conjugated anti‐rabbit IgG antibody as the secondary antibody (CITATION). Blots were developed using the ECL detection system for Western blots (Amersham). The termination codon of the ADL1 cDNA was removed after PCR using two PCR primers, ADL 5′ (5′‐GTCAAGCTTGGACCAAGCAACAGC‐3′) and the T7 primer of pBluescript (5′‐AATACGACTCACTATAG‐3′). The resulting molecule was in‐frame fused to smGFP (CITATION). To construct the Cab‐smGFP fusion gene, a DNA fragment of the cab cDNA (accession No. X56062) containing the first 89 amino acid residues was ligated in‐frame to the smGFP coding region. The fusion constructs were introduced into soybean suspension culture cells (soybean photoauxotrophic cells, SB‐P) by the particle bombardment method (CITATION). The deletion mutant genes were generated utilizing various restriction sites within the ADL1 cDNA. The ADL1del1 construct had a deletion from the Ecl136II site to the XmaI site, the ADL1del2 construct from SmaI to Sal, the ADL1del4 construct from the XbaI site to the BamHI site, the ADL1ΔN from the second codon to SmaI, and the construct ADL1ΔC from 521 to the C‐terminus. The deletion mutant genes were introduced into transgenic plants using the Agrobacterium‐mediated transformation method (CITATION). Leaves from wild‐type and transgenic plants were processed for transmission electron microscopy as described previously (CITATION). Ultra‐thin sections were made, stained with uranium and lead, and examined by electron microscopy as described previously (CITATION). Grids containing ultra‐thin sections were blocked with 3% bovine serum albumin in Tris‐buffered saline (TBS), reacted with the affinity‐purified anti‐ADL1 antibody at a dilution of 1:50 or 1:100 in TBS, and washed in TBS. They were then reacted with 20 nm gold‐conjugated goat anti‐rabbit IgG (Zymed, diluted 1:10 or 1:30) and washed with TBS and distilled water. Sections were post‐stained with standard solutions of uranyl acetate and lead citrate and examined with a Hitachi H‐600 electron microscope.
