!~ABS~! Arabidopsis COP1 acts as a light-inactivable repressor of photomorphogenic development, but its molecular mode of action remains unclear. Here, we show that COP1 negatively regulates HY5, a bZIP protein and a positive regulator of photomorphogenic development. Both in vitro and in vivo assays indicate that COP1 interacts directly and specifically with HY5. The hyperphotomorphogenic phenotype caused by the overexpression of a mutant HY5, which lacks the COP1-interactive domain, supports the regulatory role of HY5–COP1 interaction. Further, HY5 is capable of directly interacting with the CHS1 minimal promoter and is essential for its light activation. We propose that the direct interaction with and regulation of transcription factors by COP1 may represent the molecular mechanism for its control of gene expression and photomorphogenic development.
!~RES~! To examine the possible physical interaction between HY5 and COP1, an in vitro binding assay was performed. As shown in CITATION A, the amount of 32 P-labeled COP1 retained by the GST-HY5 beads increased proportionally with increasing amounts of COP1 applied. Further, the level of COP1 retained by GST-HY5 beads was significantly higher than the background level of COP1 retained by the control GST beads. Since equal amounts of GST-HY5 and GST were used in the binding experiment, our results indicate a specific and direct protein–protein interaction between COP1 and HY5 in vitro. To substantiate the observed in vitro COP1–HY5 interaction and to dissect the specific protein domains involved, a yeast two-hybrid protein–protein interaction assay ( CITATION ) was adapted. As illustrated in CITATION B, chimeric fusion protein of the LexA DNA-binding domain and HY5 (LexA-HY5) activated transcription of the lacZ reporter gene in the presence of Gal4 activation domain–COP1 fusion (AD-COP1) but not with Gal4 activation domain (AD) alone, suggesting a direct protein–protein interaction between COP1 and HY5 in yeast cells. To determine the specific HY5 protein domain that mediates its interaction with COP1, a deletion series of HY5 was constructed and fused to the LexA DNA-binding domain. As illustrated in CITATION B, deletion of the N-terminal 77 amino acids, leaving the basic plus leucine zipper (bZIP) domain of HY5 intact, completely abolished its ability to interact with COP1. By contrast, deletion of the leucine zipper domain or the entire bZIP domain, only marginally affected its interaction with COP1. Further deletion analysis of HY5 indicated that although the N-terminal 40 amino acids were essential for HY5 to interact with COP1, they were not sufficient for mediating COP1 interaction. To ensure that the different degrees of interaction observed were not due to differences in protein expression, Western blot analysis was conducted. All of the LexA-HY5 fusion proteins were expressed at similar levels, except LexA-N77 and LexA-N40, which were slightly higher and could account for the slightly stronger interaction between LexA-N77 and AD-COP1 (data not shown). Together, our data demonstrate that the N-terminal 77 amino acids of HY5 are both necessary and sufficient for mediating direct interaction with COP1. Hence, HY5 consists of at least two distinct functional modules, one for the presumed dimerization and DNA-binding activity (the bZIP domain) and the other for interacting with COP1. In a parallel experiment to dissect COP1's structural requirement for interacting with HY5, a series of COP1 deletions were constructed and fused to the hemagglutinin (HA) epitope–tagged Gal4 activation domain. Since the various AD-COP1 chimeric constructs were expressed at similar protein levels as detected by Western blot analysis (data not shown), their relative strength of interaction with HY5 should be reflected by the respective reporter β-galactosidase activities. CITATION C showed that while deletion of the ring finger (ΔZn) had no significant effect on HY5–COP1 interaction, deletion of the coiled-coil domain (ΔCoil) reduced COP1's ability to interact with HY5 by half. Further, deletion of both the ring finger and the coiled-coil domain (ΔZnΔCoil) almost completely abolished HY5–COP1 interaction, indicating that the ring finger and the coiled-coil domain were essential for interacting with HY5. However, neither the N-terminal fragment (N282) that contains both the ring finger and the coiled-coil domain, nor the C-terminal fragment (Gβ) that contains all of the WD-40 repeats, nor an internal fragment (amino acid 209–386) was sufficient to mediate the interaction of COP1 with HY5. The apparent lack of specific HY5-interactive domain in COP1 suggests that the overall protein structure of COP1, as well as specific sequences, may be critical for its molecular association with HY5. This is consistent with the observation that functional forms of COP1 may be involved in both intermolecular and intramolecular interaction and folding ( CITATION ; K. Torii and X.-W. D, unpublished data). To investigate a possible interaction between COP1 and HY5 in living plant cells, we tagged both proteins with a green fluorescent protein, S65TGFP, and analyzed their subcellular localization patterns in living onion epidermal cells. Punctate green fluorescent speckles were observed in a weak and uniform green fluorescent background in the nuclei of S65TGFP-COP1-expressing onion cells ( CITATION A and CITATION B). In addition, fluorescent inclusion bodies were detected in the cytoplasm, presumably due to an overaccumulation of S65TGFP-COP1. Note that the subcellular localization of S65TGFP-COP1 was essentially the same as that of GUS-COP1 reported previously ( CITATION ). In contrast, 100% of the onion epidermal cells (n = 50) expressing S65TGFP-HY5 fusion protein displayed a uniformly bright green fluorescent expression pattern exclusively in the nuclei ( CITATION C and CITATION D). The contrasting nuclear localization patterns of COP1 and HY5 inspired an assay for their in vivo interaction: the recruitment of HY5 into COP1 nuclear speckles. When S65TGFP-HY5 was coexpressed with nontagged full-length COP1 protein in the onion epidermal cells, bright green nuclear speckles were consistently observed throughout the uniform green fluorescent background ( CITATION E). Since uniform nuclear fluorescent signal was observed when S65TGFP-HY5 was expressed alone, the detection of nuclear green fluorescent speckles when S65TGFP-HY5 was coexpressed with the nontagged full-length COP1 would support the recruitment of S65TGFP-HY5 into the nuclear COP1 speckles. To verify the specificity of such interaction, S65TGFP itself was coexpressed with the same nontagged full-length COP1. 100% (n = 50) of the cells showed a uniform fluorescent pattern in the nuclei and none displayed the nuclear speckles ( CITATION F), indicating that the nuclear fluorescent speckles were indeed due to the specific association of S65TGFP-HY5 with the nuclear COP1 speckles. Hence, these data strongly support the in vivo interaction between HY5 and COP1 in living plant cells. The clear separation of the COP1-interactive domain from the putative DNA-binding and dimerization domain for HY5 ( CITATION B) raised the possibility that HY5 consists of two distinct functional modules: the bZIP domain that presumably interacts with target gene promoters and/or other transcription factors to regulate gene expression, and the N-terminal 77 amino acids that interact with its negative regulator, COP1. A direct prediction from this model would be that the overexpression of a mutant HY5 (HY5-ΔN77) that lacks the COP1-interactive domain will uncouple COP1's negative regulation on HY5 activity, and hence lead to a hyperactive HY5. To test this prediction, two constructs that constitutively overexpress either the full-length HY5 or the mutant HY5 (HY5-ΔN77) were stably introduced into Arabidopsis ( CITATION A). As predicted, the overexpression of the mutant HY5 (HY5-ΔN77) created a hyperphotomorphogenic phenotype in the light-grown seedlings. The dramatic reduction in the hypocotyl lengths and the elevated accumulation of anthocyanin at the upper hypocotyls were clearly evident in the HY5-ΔN77 overexpressing seedlings grown in continuous white, far-red, blue, and red light ( CITATION C–3F). In addition, precocious development of chloroplasts was observed in the hypocotyls and the roots of 6-day-old and 3-week-old light-grown seedlings, respectively (compare CITATION G with 3H and CITATION I with 3J). By contrast, overexpression of the full-length HY5 caused no significant effect on hypocotyl and cotyledon development. In addition, precocious development of chloroplasts was also not observed in the roots (data not shown). Since the protein level of HY5-ΔN77 was similar to, if not lower than that of full-length HY5 in transgenic Arabidopsis ( CITATION B), the observed phenotypes of the HY5-ΔN77 overexpressing lines could best be explained by its higher activity in activating photomorphogenic development than full-length HY5. Further, the ability of HY5-ΔN77 to partially rescue the elongated hypocotyl phenotype of the hy5 null mutant (data not shown) indicates that HY5-ΔN77 itself is physiologically active. It is however impossible to confirm whether HY5-ΔN77 is quantitatively more active than the wild-type HY5 due to the extremely low level of HY5-ΔN77 protein in the hy5 mutants, possibly due to transgene silencing (data not shown). Interestingly, no deviant phenotype was observed when the full-length HY5 and the truncated HY5-ΔN77 overexpressing lines were grown in darkness (data not shown). This result suggests that a hyperactive HY5 alone may not be sufficient to activate photomorphogenic development (see Discussion). To further elucidate the nature of HY5–COP1 interaction, we examined their roles in regulating lateral root development. Consistent with previous studies ( CITATION ), mutations in COP1 and HY5 resulted in contrasting root developmental defects ( CITATION ). Lateral root initiation was severely inhibited in cop1-6 , a weak cop1 mutant ( CITATION C), as compared to the wild-type ( CITATION A). By contrast, a dramatic increase in the number and the length of the lateral roots was observed in the hy5-1 mutant ( CITATION B). Further, hy5-1 / cop1-6 double mutants developed an increased number and length of their lateral roots resembling the hy5-1 single mutants ( CITATION D), indicating that hy5-1 can suppress the root defects of cop1-6 . These data suggest that HY5 acts to repress lateral root initiation and elongation, while COP1 plays a positive role in lateral root development, possibly by negatively regulating the repressive activity of HY5. To gain further insights into the antagonistic roles of HY5 and COP1 in lateral root development, we examined the effects of overexpressing full-length COP1 ( CITATION ) and an N-terminal fragment of COP1 (N282, CITATION ) on root development in transgenic plants. Consistent with a positive regulatory role, the overexpression of full-length COP1 led to an increased number of lateral roots as well as an increased number and length of root hairs when compared to the wild type ( CITATION E). In contrast, the overexpression of a dominant-negative form of COP1, N282, resulted in short primary roots that lacked lateral roots ( CITATION F). Since N282 was unable to interact with HY5 ( CITATION C) but capable of interacting with full-length COP1 ( CITATION ), its effect on root development could be best explained by its unproductive intermolecular interaction with the endogenous COP1 and thus compromising COP1's ability to physically interact with HY5 and negatively regulate HY5. The resulting lack of down-regulation of HY5 activity would lead to a hyperactive HY5 and hence hyperrepression of lateral root development. Taken together, the data would be consistent with a direct protein–protein interaction between COP1 and HY5 in regulating root development. However, this does not exclude other possible forms of regulatory interaction between HY5 and COP1. To examine whether HY5 is directly involved in mediating light-regulated gene expression, we chose to analyze the effect of HY5 on the expression of chalcone synthase gene ( CHS ), which encodes the first committed step for anthocyanin biosynthesis. CHS gene expression and anthocyanin accumulation are highly inducible by light stimulus ( CITATION ) and are regulated by COP1 and HY5 in a contrasting fashion ( CITATION ; CITATION ). To examine the effect of HY5 on CHS gene expression, two CHS promoter-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter constructs were introduced into a null hy5 mutant background, and the expression patterns of the transgenes were analyzed. The two promoters used were the mustard CHS1 full-length promoter and its minimal light-responsive promoter fragment (Unit 1) fused to a basal 35S promoter ( CITATION ). Both promoters, when fused with GUS reporter, displayed proper expression patterns with regard to tissue specificity and light regulation in transgenic Arabidopsis ( CITATION ). In this study, very low activity was observed for both CHS1 full-length and Unit 1 promoters in the dark-grown wild-type and hy5 seedlings, with GUS staining restricted to the cotyledons ( CITATION A and CITATION D). In the light, however, clear elevation of CHS promoter activity in the cotyledons and most dramatically in the roots was detected in the wild-type but not in the hy5 mutants ( CITATION B and CITATION E). Further quantitative GUS assays showed a 3- to 5-fold induction of the CHS1 and U1 promoter activity in the wild-type, while the light inducibility of both promoters was completely abolished in the hy5 mutants ( CITATION C and CITATION F). These results confirmed the essential role of HY5 in mediating light activation of CHS gene promoter, a sharp contrast to the repressive role of COP1 in repressing CHS gene expression ( CITATION ). The antagonistic roles of HY5 and COP1 in regulating CHS gene expression suggest that COP1 may repress CHS gene expression by directly interacting with HY5 and down-regulating HY5′s ability to activate CHS gene expression. The fact that hy5 mutation caused similar effects on CHS1 and U1 promoter activity strongly suggests that HY5 regulates CHS promoter activity through the minimal light-responsive promoter unit, Unit 1, which is both necessary and sufficient for the light inducibility of CHS gene expression. To test whether HY5 directly bind to the minimal light-responsive region of the CHS1 promoter mentioned above, a gel mobility retardation assay using recombinant GST-HY5 protein and a 180 bp CHS1 promoter fragment containing Unit 1 as a probe was carried out. Indeed, HY5 specifically bound to the CHS1 promoter to form a slower mobility protein–DNA complex ( CITATION , lanes 1–3). Furthermore, the association of HY5 with the CHS1 probe was abolished when challenged with an excess of unlabeled Unit 1 ( CITATION , lanes 4–6), suggesting that the HY5 binding site was located within the Unit 1 region. Since Unit 1 of the CHS1 promoter was reported to contain at least two essential and highly conserved protein binding sites, which include a G-box-like motif ( CITATION ), we seek to define the specific HY5 binding site by competition with unlabeled light-responsive elements (LREs) such as G, GATA, and GT1 ( CITATION ). The binding of HY5 to the CHS1 promoter was abolished when challenged with an excess of unlabeled synthetic consensus G-box tetramer ( CITATION , lanes 7–9), but not with tetramers of two other distinct light-responsive promoter elements, GATA and GT1 ( CITATION , lanes 10 and 11, respectively). This data is further supported by the finding that HY5 can specifically bind to the labeled G-box sequences in vitro by both gel mobility retardation and footprinting assays (S. C. and N. W., unpublished data). Hence, our results suggest that HY5 is capable of specifically binding to the CHS promoter via direct contact with the essential G-box motif.
!~MM~! All Arabidopsis lines used are in Columbia ecotype with the exception of hy5-1 ( Landsberg erecta ), the transgenic lines overexpressing full-length COP1 and N282 (Nossen), and the transgenic lines expressing CHS1 promoters (Wassilewskija). When necessary, wild-type strains of multiple ecotypes were tested to ensure that a given phenotype is not due to ecotype variation. Plant germination and growth conditions in darkness and under various light sources were the same as previously described ( CITATION ). Light/dark cycle was 16 hr of white light at 75 μmol/m 2 /s and 8 hr of darkness. The continuous red and blue light were at 73 and 15 μmol/m 2 /s, respectively. The onion bulbs (Allium cepa) were purchased from local markets. DNA fragments were subcloned into pEG202 and pJG4.5 ( CITATION ) to generate LexA-HY5 and AD-COP1 constructs. The HY5 and COP1 deletions generated by PCR amplification were verified by direct DNA sequencing. Full-length HY5 was cloned into pGEX4T-1 (Pharmacia Biotech) to express GST-HY5 fusion protein. To overexpress COP1 and HY5 in plant, DNA fragments were cloned into either pJS203 vector (J. Staub and X.-W. D., unpublished data) to give pRTL2COP1, pRTL2HY5, and pRTL2HY5-ΔN77 or pRTL2S65TGFP vector (A. von Arnim and X.-W. D., unpublished data) to give S65TGFP-COP1 and S65TGFP-HY5. All of the green fluorescent proteins used in this study contained the modified codon usage engineered to mutate the cryptic splicing sites ( CITATION ), and the pRTL2 constructs were under 35S CaMV promoters and terminators. GST and GST-HY5 fusion proteins were expressed in E. coli strain (BL21/DE3) and purified using glutathione-agarose beads (Sigma) according to CITATION . The purification and labeling of the flag-tagged COP1 protein containing a HMK kinase domain with 32 P-ATP, as well as the binding assay were performed as previously described ( CITATION ) with minor modifications. In a typical binding assay, 5, 10, and 50 μl of the 32 P-labeled COP1 were mixed with 10 μg of glutathione-agarose beads bound GST-HY5 or GST and incubated at 4°C overnight. After extensive washing, the 32 P-labeled COP1 retained by the GST-HY5 and GST beads was size-fractionated on a 10% SDS–PAGE and analyzed by autoradiography. The protein–DNA binding assay was performed in a final volume of 20 μl containing the binding buffer: 15 mM HEPES (pH 7.5), 35 mM KCl, 1 mM EDTA, 6% glycerol, 1 mM DTT, 0.2 mM MgCl 2 , and 1 μg of poly dI-dC. We then added 1–1.5 ng of the 3′-end 32 P-labeled probes (180 bp fragment of the CHS promoter that includes the Unit 1 region: −247 to −68) to 4 μg of GST or 0.8 μg of GST-HY5. The reactions were incubated for 15 min at 25°C and were run in a 7% polyacrylamide gel before the resultant mobility of the probe was visualized by autoradiography. Cells in the epidermal layer of onion bulbs were transformed using biolistic bombardment essentially as described ( CITATION ), except that tungsten replaced gold particles, and 1100 psi rupture discs were employed. After bombardment, onion cell layers were incubated for 48 hr at 22°C in complete darkness. The cell layers were then mounted in water and examined by epifluorescence microscopy. LexA-HY5, AD-COP1 recombinant constructs, and a reporter plasmid (pSH18-34) were transformed into a yeast strain EGY48 according to CITATION . The selection for transformants and the assay for their β-galactosidase activities were essentially as described previously ( CITATION ). Relative β-galactosidase activities were calculated according to CITATION . Expression of LexA-HY5 and AD-COP1 fusion proteins was examined by Western blot using anti-LexA and anti-HA antibodies, respectively. pRTL2HY5 expression construct was cloned into the binary plant transformation vector pBIN19 ( CITATION ) and introduced into Arabidopsis via Agrobacterium -mediated root transformation as described ( CITATION ). The pRTL2HY5-ΔN77 expression construct was cloned into the binary plant transformation vector pPZP222 ( CITATION ) and introduced into Arabidopsis via Agrobacterium -mediated vacuum infiltration ( CITATION ). Transgenic lines containing a single transgene locus per haploid genome for pRTL2HY5 (5) and pRTL2HY5-ΔN77 (4) were generated, and the number of independent lines analyzed for each construct was represented by the number in parentheses. The four transgenic lines that overexpressed HY5-ΔN77 also segregated seedlings with hyperphotomorphogenic phenotype: wild-type in a 3:1 (279:93) ratio among their T2 progeny. Furthermore, an exact cosegregation of the mutant phenotype with transgene was observed: 100% (n = 68) of the seedlings with mutant phenotype possessed the transgene, and 100% (n = 51) of their wild-type siblings did not. Chloroplast autofluorescent images of 6-day-old hypocotyls and 3-week-old roots were taken with a DAPI filter on a Zeiss Axiophot microscope and a rhodamine filter on a Bio-Rad confocal microscope, respectively. Fluorescent images of the various green fluorescent proteins were taken with a 20× objective on a Zeiss Axiophot microscope. The filter set used for S65TGFP was: 480/40 excitation, 505LP dichroic, 535/50 emission (the numbers indicate midpoint wavelength/bandwidth in nm, respectively). Best results were obtained with Ektachrome 64T films (Kodak). Both the DAPI filter and the GFP filter set were from Chroma (Chroma Technology Corp., Brattleboro, VT). The same procedures as described previously ( CITATION ) were used for GUS histochemical staining and quantitative GUS activity assay. The wild-type and the mutant plants carrying the same transgene were stained with the identical procedure for the same length of time, and the quantitative GUS assay is performed on the aerial portion (which includes hypocotyls and cotyledons) of the seedlings. § To whom correspondence should be addressed.
