!~ABS~! The molecular mechanisms underlying gravity perception and signal transduction which control asymmetric plant growth responses are as yet unknown, but are likely to depend on the directional flux of the plant hormone auxin. We have isolated an Arabidopsis mutant of the AtPIN2 gene using transposon mutagenesis. Roots of the Atpin2::En701 null‐mutant were agravitropic and showed altered auxin sensitivity, a phenotype characteristic of the agravitropic wav6‐52 mutant. The AtPIN2 gene was mapped to chromosome 5 (115.3 cM) corresponding to the WAV6 locus and subsequent genetic analysis indicated that wav6‐52 and Atpin2::En701 were allelic. The AtPIN2 gene consists of nine exons defining an open reading frame of 1944 bp which encodes a 69 kDa protein with 10 putative transmembrane domains interrupted by a central hydrophilic loop. The topology of AtPIN2p was found to be similar to members of the major facilitator superfamily of transport proteins. We have shown that the AtPIN2 gene was expressed in root tips. The AtPIN2 protein was localized in membranes of root cortical and epidermal cells in the meristematic and elongation zones revealing a polar localization. These results suggest that AtPIN2 plays an important role in control of gravitropism regulating the redistribution of auxin from the stele towards the elongation zone of roots.
!~RES~! The AtPIN2 gene and the corresponding cDNA were isolated using a probe derived from the AtPIN1 gene which is involved in the control of polar auxin transport in Arabidopsis plants (L.Gälweiler, C.Guan, A.Müller, E.Wisman, K.Mendgen, A.Yephremov and K.Palme, submitted). A genomic clone was obtained spanning a region of ∼4 kb. Screening of several cDNA libraries resulted only in truncated AtPIN2 cDNAs. Therefore, we reconstructed a full‐length cDNA clone by PCR amplification of 269 bp from the genomic clone and ligation of this PCR fragment to the 5′ end of an incomplete cDNA. Sequence comparison of the genomic clone with the cDNA showed that the coding sequence of the AtPIN2 gene was interrupted by eight introns (FIG-REF). Several in‐frame stop codons upstream of the coding region of 1944 bp and polyadenylation signals located at cDNA positions 1967, 2088 and 2135 indicated that the cDNA contained the full coding region. In addition, the sequence around the initiation codon confirmed Kozak's rules (CITATION). To determine the map position of the AtPIN2 gene, we hybridized the CIC YAC library with an AtPIN2 probe and identified a YAC contig consisting of CIC9E2, CIC10B4 and CIC9C9 (CITATION) located in the region of 115.34 cM (m558A) and 115.26 cM (mi70) on the lower arm of Arabidopsis chromosome 5 (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] The AtPIN2 gene encodes a protein of 647 amino acids with a predicted molecular mass of 69 kDa (FIG-REF). The predicted AtPIN2 protein sequence consisted of >35% hydrophobic amino acids, yielding a calculated isoelectric point of 9.37 and a net charge of +12.36 at pH 7.2. The protein showed high similarity to the AtPIN1 protein (64% identity; L.Gälweiler, C.Guan, A.Müller, E.Wisman, K.Mendgen, A.Yephremov and K.Palme, submitted), and to other members of the PIN gene family (unpublished data). Hydropathy analysis revealed three characteristic regions: a hydrophobic region with five to six transmembrane segments (residues 1–163), a predominantly hydrophilic core extending from residue 164 to 482 which was followed by another hydrophobic region with about four to five transmembrane segments between residues 483 and 647 (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). The position of the transmembrane segments was equally detected by programs PSORT, PredictProtein, Tmpred and PeptideStructure. PSORT data suggested at a probability of 64% that AtPIN2p was a type‐III membrane protein anchored through internal sequences in the plasma membrane (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] For functional analysis of the AtPIN2 gene, we screened for a knock‐out mutant in a collection of Arabidopsis plants mutagenized by the maize transposon En‐1 (E.Baumann, J.Lewald, H.Saedler, B.Schultz and E.Wisman, submitted; CITATION). We identified a mutant, Atpin2::En701, in which the En‐1 transposon was inserted into the second exon of the AtPIN2 gene (between nucleotide positions 701 and 702) thereby disrupting the codon for Leu151 (FIG-REF). To characterize the Atpin2::En701 mutant with respect to growth of aerial and root organs, homozygous progeny were grown on agar plates. Roots of mutant plants displayed an agravitropic phenotype coupled to reduced root elongation growth (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). Physical mapping revealed that the chromosomal position of AtPIN2 corresponded to the WAV6 locus. Since the wav6‐52 EMS mutant exhibited a similar agravitropic phenotype as Atpin2::En701 (CITATION), we performed crosses between the homozygous wav6‐52 and Atpin2::En701 mutants to test for allelism. Analysis of the F1 progeny indeed showed that wav6‐52 and Atpin2::En701 were allelic (data not shown). We have tested the auxin sensitivity of root elongation for the Atpin2::En701 and wav6‐52 alleles, since several agravitropic mutants have been observed to exhibit altered auxin response (CITATION; CITATION). Seeds were first germinated on hormone‐free Murashige and Skoog (MS) agar medium, then transfered onto MS agar plates containing various concentrations of 1‐naphthylacetic acid (1‐NAA; FIG-REF and FIG-REF), indole‐3‐acetic acid (IAA; FIG-REF and FIG-REF) or 2,4‐dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4‐D; FIG-REF and FIG-REF). Additional root growth following transfer was measured after 3 days and the percentage of root elongation was calculated relative to growth on media containing no auxin. The results revealed that elongation of Atpin2::En701 mutant roots was more sensitive than wild‐type at elevated concentrations of 1‐NAA (p <0.0001 student t‐test at 3.3×10−7 M; FIG-REF), and IAA (p <0.0001 Student's t‐test at 10−7 M; FIG-REF), but no difference in 2,4‐D sensitivity was found between them (FIG-REF). Similar responses have been observed for the wav6‐52 allele (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). The greater sensitivity of Atpin2::En701 and wav6‐52 mutant roots towards the auxins 1‐NAA > IAA > 2,4‐D (FIG-REF) is consistent with the known substrate specificity of the auxin efflux carrier (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Northern blot analysis showed that AtPIN2 was expressed in young seedlings and roots of plants grown on agar and in liquid culture, respectively (FIG-REF). This was confirmed by Western blot analyses using affinity‐purified polyclonal anti‐AtPIN2p antibodies raised against a polypeptide extending from residues 275–487 of AtPIN2p. The anti‐AtPIN2p antibodies detected a specific signal corresponding to the expected size of 69 kDa in membrane fractions of Arabidopsis roots (FIG-REF). In order to localize AtPIN2 expression, the spatial distribution of its mRNA was determined by whole‐mount in situ hybridization using 3‐day‐old seedlings (FIG-REF). AtPIN2 expression was observed in a region spanning meristematic and distal elongation zones of wild‐type seedlings (FIG-REF), whereas no signals were detected in the Atpin2::En701 mutant (data not shown). To localize the AtPIN2 protein within root cells, whole‐mount in situ immunostaining analysis of 4‐day‐old seedlings was performed using affinity purified anti‐AtPIN2p primary antibodies with fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC)‐coupled secondary antibodies. Immunohistochemical staining of wild‐type plants revealed AtPIN2p‐specific signals in a region spanning meristematic and distal elongation zones, consistent with the AtPIN2 mRNA in situ hybridization results (FIG-REF). In roots of homozygous Atpin2::En701 mutant plants we observed only diffuse background staining as expected for a loss‐of‐function mutant (FIG-REF). In wild‐type seedlings, the AtPIN2p‐specific FITC fluorescence was localized exclusively in membranes of root cortical and epidermal cell files, starting three to five cells distant from the quiescent center (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). No signal was observed in the stele, pericycle or endodermis. The fluorescence was very weak, if not completely absent, at the periclinal side of cortical cells contacting the endodermal cells. Stronger signals were observed at the anti‐ and periclinal sides of cortical cells adjacent to other cortical and epidermal cells (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). In the epidermal cell file AtPIN2p was preferentially localized to the anticlinal side of the cells (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). As the epidermal cell file extended towards the elongation zone, the signal was present at the basal side of cells oriented towards the elongation zone (FIG-REF). This striking cellular polarity of AtPIN2p is highly reminiscent of the basal localization of the homologous AtPIN1 protein in Arabidopsis inflorescence axes (L.Gälweiler, C.Guan, A.Müller, E.Wisman, K.Mendgen, A.Yephremov and K.Palme, submitted). This common basal localization of AtPIN1 and AtPIN2 proteins in different auxin‐transport‐competent cells is consistent with the proposed direction of auxin flux in each of these tissues (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Seeds of Arabidopsis thaliana Heynh., ecotype Columbia (Col‐O) or Landsberg erecta (Ler), were grown on soil under white light in a controlled environment chamber (irradiance 150 μE/m2/s, 16 h light, 60% humidity, 20–25°C day temperature, 10–15°C night temperature). For in vitro culture, seeds were surface sterilized using 5% sodium hypochloride and plated on agar MS medium (4.3 g/l MS salts, 1–3% sucrose, 1% bactoagar pH 6.0 with 1 M KOH; CITATION). To break dormancy, seeds were incubated for 1–2 days at 4°C. The hormones NAA and IAA were dissolved in 1.0 M NaOH, whilst 2,4‐D was resuspended in 100% dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO). The resuspended hormones were diluted with water (30:70) to provide stock solutions which were later added at various dilutions to plant growth media. Seedlings were grown on MS agar in constant white light at 22°C for 3 days. Seedlings of similar size were transferred to MS agar containing various concentrations of auxins and the position of primary root tips was marked. The seedlings were grown vertically for 3 days under the same growth conditions, then additional root growth was measured. The percentage growth relative to the control growing on media with no auxin addition was calculated. The Atpin2::En701 mutant was identified by reverse genetic screening of an En‐1 mutagenized collection of Arabidopsis plants. PCR‐based screens were performed according to a three dimensional grid as described (Baumann et al., submitted). The following primers specific for the AtPIN2 gene were used: P2‐En4: 5′‐GAAGAAAAGGGCATGTGGAAA‐3′; P2‐En5: 5′‐CCTCTGGTCATAGCATTCTT‐3′. All cloning procedures were performed according to standard methods (CITATION). Arabidopsis genomic and cDNA libraries were screened using a probe derived from the AtPIN1 gene (DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank accession No. AF089084; Gälweiler et al., submitted). Sequencing was performed using an ABI sequencer (377) according to the manufacturer's instruction. Sequences were aligned and analyzed using Gap, Map and Pileup programs of the GCG program package (version 8; Genetics Computer Group, Madison, WI; CITATION). The nucleotide and predicted amino acid sequences were compared with the database using BLASTN and TFASTA algorithm (CITATION; CITATION). Oligonucleotides were designed using the Oligo4S program and obtained from commercial suppliers (MWG, Ebersbach). For polypeptide topology prediction, the following servers were used: http://psort.nibb.ac… (Psort; CITATION), http://www.embl-heidelberg.de/predictprotein/predictprotein.h… (PHD topology; CITATION), http://ulrec3.unil.ch/software/TMPRED_form.html (Tmpred; CITATION) and Peptidestructure (GCG program package; CITATION). Arabidopsis plants were grown either in vitro on agar plates for 3 days, in liquid culture for 2 weeks or in the soil for 3 weeks. Organs were collected, frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at −80°C. Isolation of mRNA and Northern blot hybridizations were performed as described (CITATION). Expression of RPL4 (ribosomal protein large subunit 4; CITATION) was used to monitor uniformity of loading of RNA. A region of AtPIN2 cDNA corresponding to nucleotides 841–1461 was cloned in pBluescript and used as a probe. Digoxigenin‐labeled sense and antisense probes were prepared by in vitro transcription (Boehringer Mannheim). Three‐day‐old seedlings were fixed, permeabilized and hybridization performed as described (CITATION). After hybridization, the samples were washed once with 4× SSC for 10 min at 20°C, 2× SSC for 30 min at 20°C, and then with 0.2× SSC at 65°C for 30 min. To generate polyclonal AtPIN2p‐specific antibodies, a PCR fragment carrying the cDNA sequence coding for a peptide between amino acids 275–487 was synthesized and inserted into pT7H6(GS)2 (CITATION). Expression of the recombinant protein containing an N‐terminal His6 tag was performed in Escherichia coli BL21 after induction with CE6 phages. The 24 kDa recombinant protein was extracted from bacteria, purified by Ni2+–NTA chromatography and used for immunization of rabbits. The rabbit polyclonal anti‐AtPIN2p antiserum was affinity purified according to standard procedures (CITATION) and analyzed by Western blotting using the recombinant antigen and Arabidopsis microsomal fractions. Microsomal fractions of Arabidopsis roots from plants grown in liquid medium or on agar plates were isolated by differential centrifugation (CITATION), incubated in SDS–PAGE sample buffer for 5 min at 42°C, and separated by electrophoresis on 10% SDS–PAGE gels. Proteins were electrotransferred to PVDF membranes, the blots were blocked with phosphate‐buffered saline/4 % low fat milk powder and incubated with anti‐AtPIN2p antibodies. Signal detection was achieved using peroxidase‐conjugated secondary antibodies and by performing chemiluminescence reaction (ECL kit; Pierce) followed by X‐ray film exposure. Four‐day‐old Arabidopsis seedlings were incubated for 1 h under vacuum in 50 mM PIPES, 5 mM EGTA, 5 mM MgSO4 pH 7.0 (MTSB). Seedlings were subsequently washed three times for 15 min in MTSB/0.1% Triton X‐100, three times in water/0.1% Triton X‐100 and then incubated in MTSB/2% Driselase (Sigma, Deisenhofen) for 15–30 min. After washing three times with MTSB, seedlings were permeabilized by incubation in 0.5% nonident P‐40/10% DMSO in MTSB for 1 h, washed again three times with MTSB and incubated in blocking buffer (3% bovine serum albumin/MTSB) for 30 min. Permeabilized seedlings were incubated with affinity‐purified anti‐AtPIN2p antibodies in a humid chamber for 1 h, washed three times for 5 min in MTSB and further incubated for 1–2 h at 20°C with FITC‐conjugated anti‐rabbit IgG antibodies (Boehringer Mannheim) diluted in blocking buffer. Before mounting, seedlings were washed three times for 5 min with MTSB followed by washing twice with water. Fluorescent signal detection and documentation was performed with the help of a confocal laser scanning microscope (Leica DMIRBE, TCS 4D with digital image processing) using a 530 ± 15 nm band‐pass filter for FITC‐specific detection and a 580 ± 15 nm band‐pass filter for autofluorescence detection. For histological signal localization, both images were electronically overlayed resulting in a red autofluorescence and green–yellow AtPIN2p‐specific fluorescence. Images were further processed by Photoshop 4.0 for graphic presentation. During revision of this manuscript, Lusching et al. reported the isolation and characterization of the Arabidopsis EIR1 gene (Genes Dev., 12, 2175–2187). The agravitropic mutation eirl‐3 was shown to be allelic to the previously described mutations wav6‐52/agr1.
