!~ABS~! The F O portion of the mitochondrial ATP synthase contains a range of different subunits in bacteria, yeast and mammals. A search of the Arabidopsis genome identified sequence orthologs for only some of these subunits. Blue native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis separation of Arabidopsis mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes revealed intact F 1 F O , and separated F 1 and F O components. The subunits of each complex were analysed by mass spectrometry and matched to Arabidopsis genes. In the F 1 F O complex a series of nine known subunits were identified along with two additional proteins matching the predicted products of the mitochondrial encoded orfB and orf25 genes. The F 1 complex contained the five well-characterised F 1 subunits, while four subunits in the F O complex were identified: subunit 9, d subunit, and the orfB and orf25 products. Previously, orfB has been suggested as the plant equivalent of subunit 8 based on structural and sequence similarity. We propose that orf25 is the plant b subunit based on structural similarity and its presence in the F O complex. Chimerics of orf25, orfB, subunit 9 and subunit 6 have been associated with cytoplasmic male sterility in a variety of plant species, our additional findings now place all these proteins in the same protein complex.
!~RES~! Mitochondria can be isolated at a high level of purity from Arabidopsis cell cultures and their protein components analysed [BIB13 BIB16] . In our separation of Arabidopsis membrane proteins using BN-PAGE three complexes are highlighted that contain subunits of the Arabidopsis F 1 F O ATP synthase ( [FIG1] ). Previous analyses of this sort in plant mitochondria have typically identified an intact F 1 F O complex and a dissociated F 1 complex. The apparent mobility and general polypeptide composition of the intact F 1 F O and F 1 complexes in [FIG1] are similar to those previously observed in potato [BIB7] , suggesting masses of 550–600 kDa for F 1 F O and 350–400 for F 1 . In addition we observe another complex with an apparent mass of 150–200 kDa that contains three protein bands of masses similar to components found in F 1 F O but absent from F 1 . This complex is thus likely to represent F O . We then attempted to identify each of the subunits of the intact complex and the two subcomplexes and thus to potentially identify unknown ATP synthase subunits physically associated with known components in native complexes. Protein bands comprising F 1 F O subunits and similar components from the putative F 1 and F O subcomplexes were excised, in-gel digested with trypsin and the resultant peptides extracted. Samples were analysed by MS/MS and spectral data matched to theoretical digests of the Arabidopsis predicted proteome using Mascot. This analysis revealed that four of the F 1 F O protein bands (1, 2, 5 and 8) and all the F 1 protein bands (10, 11, 12, 13) contained peptides derived from the Arabidopsis orthologs of the α, β, γ, δ, and ϵ F 1 components from yeast and mammals ( [TBL1] ). In addition, the F 1 F O complex contained a 29 kDa protein matching the F A d subunit gene (At2g21870) and a 26 kDa protein matching the gene encoding OSCP (At5g13450). Neither of these proteins were identified in the putative F 1 or F O subcomplexes suggesting disassociation during the separation of F 1 and F O . The F 1 F O complex also contained three protein bands with apparent molecular masses of 21, 17 and 7 kDa that were also found in the putative F O complex. Peptides derived from the nuclear encoded d subunit (At3g52300) and mitochondrial-encoded orf25 (NP_085524) were found in the 21 kDa bands of spots 6 and 14. The 17 kDa bands (spots 7 and 15) contained peptides derived from the mitochondrial encoded orfB (NP_085508). The 7 kDa bands (spots 9 and 16) stained weakly with Coomassie and were identified as the lipid binding protein subunit 9 (NP_085561). Subunit 9 is known to bind Coomassie weakly and contains very few predicted peptides after trypsin digestion that are amenable to MS detection. In recent mammalian research using MS based detection of ATP synthase components this subunit was only identified by size on SDS-PAGE [BIB17] . We have identified two, very abundant singly charged peptides from subunit 9 samples with apparent molecular masses of 628.35 and 647.32 which match by MS analysis to peptides NPSLAK and MLEGAK, respectively, in the Arabidopsis ATP9 sequence. The second peptide is not a predicted trypsin product but starts 11 amino acids from the currently annotated N-terminus of the protein. However, the presence of this second peptide strongly suggests the first methionine of this peptide represents the true N-terminus of the Arabidopsis subunit 9 and that in silico predictions are incorrect. The potato subunit 9 N-terminal sequence determined by Jänsch et al. [BIB7] , also commences MLEGAK, confirming that this start site is probably common in plants. Several protein spots were present in the gel shown, and in some other replicate gel separations, from which no MS/MS spectra could be obtained due to absence of peptides following gel elution (asterisks, [FIG1] ). Thus we have been unable to determine whether these represent true additional components or low-level breakdown products of proteins in [TBL1] . The large protein spot present above but not in-line with components of F O (labelled A in [FIG1] ) is glutamate dehydrogenase, and the streaks of protein material (labelled B in [FIG1] ) are both VDAC (the voltage dependent anion channel) based on MS/MS analysis (data not shown). Neither are components of the F 1 F O ATP synthase and their presence near these subunits is probably coincidence. We have been unable to identify the product of the mitochondrial encoded ATP6 gene in either intact F 1 F O or the F O subcomplex. This absence is likely due to the extreme hydrophobicity of this protein and its resultant peptides that in all probability preclude its identification by MS. Extensive attempts to identify ATP6 peptides in the 35–45 kDa range in both the F 1 F O and F O complexes, despite the very low Coomassie staining of this area, has failed to identify any such products.
!~MM~! A heterotrophic Arabidopsis thaliana cell culture, established from callus of ecotype Lansberg erecta stem explants, is maintained by weekly subculture in Murashige and Skoog basal media supplemented with 3% (w/v) sucrose, 0.5 mg/l naphthaleneacetic acid and 0.05 mg/l kinetin [BIB12] . The cell cultures were maintained in 250 ml conical flasks in the dark at 22°C in an orbital shaker (150 rpm). At 6–7 days, each flask (120 ml of cell culture) contained 8–10 g fresh weight cells and growth was approximately in the middle of the log phase. Subculture of 20 ml of culture to 100 ml of fresh media initiated the cycle again. A total of 1.0–1.2 l of 7-day-old dark-grown cell suspension culture was filtered through gauze to remove media and then the cells disrupted in a Waring blender by three successive 15 s bursts. Disruption of 60 g of cells was performed in 200 ml of grinding medium (0.45 M mannitol, 50 mM sodium pyrophosphate, 0.5% (w/v) bovine serum albumin, 0.5% (w/v) PVP-40, 2 mM EGTA, 20 mM cysteine, pH 8.0). Filtered cell extract was separated by differential centrifugation and mitochondria purified from the resultant organelle pellets by two Percoll gradients according to Millar et al. [BIB13] . BN-PAGE was performed largely according to Schägger et al. [BIB14] and Jänsch et al. [BIB7] . Gels consisted of a separating gel (5–15% w/v acrylamide) and a stacking gel (4% w/v acrylamide) formed in a solution of 0.25 M ϵ-amino- n -caproic acid and 25 mM Bis–Tris–HCl (pH 7.0). Subsequent SDS–PAGE was performed in Tris–glycine buffers to resolve higher molecular mass subunits (100–12 kDa), and Tris–tricine buffers to resolve subunits with molecular masses <12 kDa. Q-TOF MS/MS was performed on an Applied Biosystems Q-STAR Pulsar (Q-TOF MS) using an electrospray source. Protein spots to be analysed were cut from the 2D PAGE gel, destained, dried at 50°C in a dry block heater and stored at −70°C. For the sequencing analysis, the proteins were digested with trypsin according to Sweetlove et al. [BIB15] injected into the electrospray source in 50% (v/v) methanol/0.1% (v/v) formic acid, and selected multiply charged peptides, identified in TOF MS mode, fragmented by N 2 collision and analysed by MS/MS. Mass spectra and collision MS/MS data were analysed with Analyst QS and BioAnalyst software (Applied Biosystems, Sydney, Australia) and Mascot (Matrix Science, London, UK). Sequence orthologs were identified by BLAST analysis of yeast genes against v3.0 (July 2002) of the Arabidopsis protein set released by The Institute for Genomic Research and mitochondrial-encoded protein sets from NCBI. Transmembrane domains were identified using sliding window hydrophobicity analysis (19 AA) with the augmented Wimley–White scale at http://blanco.biomol.uci.edu/mpex , CONH was set to 0.0.
