!~ABS~! We have identified a novel protein on the outer membrane of Arabidopsis thaliana mitochondria. This protein displays 67% sequence identity with the 64 kDa translocase of the outer envelope membrane of chloroplasts (Toc). A mitochondrial localisation for this protein was determined by (i) its presence in the proteome of highly purified Arabidopsis mitochondria, (ii) Western blot analysis with antibodies to Toc64 from pea that indicate its presence in Arabidopsis and pea mitochondria, (iii) green fluorescent protein fusion proteins that indicate an exclusive mitochondrial localisation for this protein, and (iv) expression profiles in various tissue types and during development that are more similar to translocase of the outer mitochondrial membrane components than to chloroplastic Toc components. Thus Arabidopsis mitochondria contain a protein with high sequence identity to a plastid protein import receptor.
!~RES~! A proteomic and bioinformatic approach to identify components of the mitochondrial import apparatus confirmed the presence of 17 proteins that we previously predicted to be present based on sequence similarity to components of the yeast mitochondrial import apparatus [BIB19 BIB32] . In this analysis we identified two peptides that were derived from an Arabidopsis Toc64 homologue on chromosome 5, At5g09420 ( [FIG1] ). This annotation is based on high sequence identity with the previously characterised Toc64 from pea [BIB36] . No other Toc or translocase of the inner envelope membrane of chloroplasts components were identified in our proteomic analysis. We have previously demonstrated that a two Percoll gradient purification of Arabidopsis cell culture mitochondria yields an intact mitochondrial fraction with as little as 1–2% plastid contamination, as determined by measuring alkaline pyrophosphatase activity, a marker for plastids [BIB41] . Three genes in Arabidopsis display high amino acid sequence identity with the previously identified pea Toc64: Toc64-III (At3g17960) displays the highest identity of 67%, Toc64-V (At5g09420) displays 52% identity, and Toc64-I (At1g08980) displays 50% identity ( [FIG1] ). The Toc64-V protein had a predicted molecular mass of 65.7 kDa and hydropathy plot analysis indicated that it has a hydrophobic stretch of approximately 30 amino acids at the N-terminal end. Toc64 from pea is known to be anchored in the membrane by the N-terminal end [BIB36] . A hydrophobic region at the N-terminal end is also predicted in Toc64-III, which has a predicted molecular mass of 64 kDa. Toc64-I differs from the other two Toc64 isoforms in that it contains 450 amino acids, has a predicted molecular mass of 45 kDa, and does not appear to have a hydrophobic region at the N-terminal end ( [FIG1] ). Like pea Toc64 and Arabidopsis Toc64-III [BIB36] , Toc64-V is also predicted to contain three tetratricopeptide (TPR) domains. For clarity we will now refer to Arabidopsis Toc64-V as mtOM64 to indicate its mitochondrial location. We carried out Western blot analysis with antibodies to pea Toc64, pea Toc34 and Arabidopsis TOM20 to further investigate the presence of mtOM64 in mitochondria. We used purified pea chloroplasts, pea mitochondria and Arabidopsis mitochondria. Antibodies to pea Toc64 yielded a strong band with all three samples ( [FIG2] ). A strong band was apparent in proteins separated from pea chloroplasts, but a distinct band was also detected in proteins separated from pea and Arabidopsis mitochondrial preparations. Immunoreactivity of the same organellar preparations with antibodies raised against Toc34 produced a distinct signal with pea chloroplasts as expected, but yielded a negative result in Arabidopsis mitochondria ( [FIG2] ). The very weak signal for Toc34 in pea mitochondria is probably because these mitochondria are only purified through a single Percoll gradient, while the Arabidopsis mitochondria are purified through two Percoll gradients. Immunoreactivity of the three preparations with an antibody raised to TOM20 from Arabidopsis produces a strong band in Arabidopsis mitochondria, a distinct but weaker band in pea mitochondria, and no band in pea chloroplasts. To define the subcellular location of the three Toc64 homologues in Arabidopsis we made gene fusions linking GFP to the 3′ end of the cDNAs. Transient transformation of cultured soybean cells with these chimeric products was performed to determine subcellular localisation. We linked the targeting signal of soybean AOX to GFP as a control for mitochondrial localisation ( [FIG3] ). The subcellular localisation of Toc64-III and mtOM64 GFP chimeric products gave distinct but different fluorescence patterns. The Toc64-III fluorescence appeared in large organelles, 5 μm in diameter and low in number ( [FIG3] ). The mtOM64 fluorescence was observed in numerous small punctate organelles that were similar in distribution and number to those observed when the AOX targeting signal was linked to GFP ( [FIG3] ). Toc64-I yielded a different fluorescence pattern and did not appear to be targeted to any organelle, rather it appeared to accumulate in the nucleus ( [FIG3] ). On the basis of this result we concluded that mtOM64 was targeted to mitochondria, which is consistent with its detection in the mitochondrial fraction and Western blot analysis, while Toc64-III appears to be targeted to chloroplasts. We also carried out Western blot analysis on protease-treated mitochondria with antibodies to TOM20 (outer membrane marker protein), cytochrome c (intermembrane space marker protein), the uncoupling protein (inner membrane marker protein), Hsp60 (matrix marker protein) and Toc64 ( [FIG4] ). TOM20 was digested upon protein kinase treatment with intact mitochondria, as was the cross-reacting band with the Toc64 antiserum. However, the intermembrane space, inner membrane and matrix marker proteins were not digested. On the basis of these results we propose that the mtOM64 protein is exposed on the outer mitochondrial membrane. In order to determine if mtOM64 displayed a similar expression profile to either TOM or Toc components we examined the expression of the three Toc64 genes from Arabidopsis and compared them to the expression of TOM7 , TOM20 and TOM40 which we had previously examined [BIB32] . Toc64-I and Toc64-III showed high expression levels in green tissues, namely cotyledons and leaves ( [FIG5] ). In contrast mtOM64 was most highly expressed in root tissue. Interestingly, Toc64-I and Toc64-III exhibited similar expression patterns to those measured for the plastid Toc159 and Toc34 components and Rps1 , a nuclear gene encoding a plastid ribosomal protein. In contrast, the mtOM64 expression profile was similar to those observed for mitochondrial located proteins, in particular TOM40-2 and TOM7-1 . Thus the transcript abundance profile of mtOM64 had a similar expression profile to the mitochondrial rather than the chloroplastic import receptor apparatus.
!~MM~! Soybean ( Glycine max cv. Stevens) and pea ( Pisum sativum cv. Greenfeast) plants were grown in a 28°C incubator, which was fitted with artificial lights of 600 μmol/m 2 /s set to a 16 h light and 8 h dark cycle. Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Columbia) were grown at 22°C under artificial lights at 150 μmol/m 2 /s set to 16 h light and 8 h dark period on solid medium [BIB29] . Arabidopsis (ecotype Landsberg erecta ) suspension cells were grown at 22°C in 250 ml flasks containing medium [BIB30] . Soybean ( G. max cv. Stevens) leaf tissue suspension cells were grown at 28°C in 250 ml flasks containing medium [BIB31] . The following polymerase chain reaction (PCR) primers were used to clone cDNAs: Toc64-I-fwd, ATGGCGACCAATAATGATTTTGG; Toc64-I-rev, TCAAATAAATGCAGCAAGGG; Toc64-III-fwd, ATGGCGTCTCAAGCTGCG; Toc64-III-rev, TCACTGGAATTTTCTCAGTC; mtOM64-fwd, ATGTCGAATACGCTTTCTTTG, mtOM64-rev, TCATATGTGTTTTCGGAGTCTC, Toc159-fwd, ATGGACTCAAAGTCGGTTAC; Toc159-rev, CAACCATAGAGTCTCCTTCAC; Toc34-fwd, CAGGTAAGGATTTGTGTCC; Toc34-rev, CAAAACTCGTGTCCACAAC. Primers used to clone cDNAs encoding other mitochondrial import components have been previously described [BIB32] . Mitochondria were purified from 7 day old soybean cotyledons according to the method of Day et al. [BIB33] . Ten day old pea leaf chloroplasts were isolated following published procedures [BIB34 BIB35] . Arabidopsis mitochondria were purified from dark-grown cell culture according to Millar et al. [BIB28] . Q-TOF MS/MS was performed on an Applied Biosystems Q-STAR Pulsar (Q-TOF MS) using an IonSpray source. Aliquots of 50 μg of mitochondrial protein were acetone-precipitated and the protein pellets air-dried. A digestion solution consisting of 100 mM Tris–HCl pH 8.6 and 50 μg/ml trypsin was added to a final volume of 45 μl and incubated for 16 h at 37°C. Peptide extracts were bound onto a microbore HPLC C18 column (Agilent) and eluted over 6 h with a linear acetonitrile gradient from 2 to 80% (v/v) in H 2 O. Mass spectra and collision MS/MS data from elution runs were analysed with Analyst QS and BioAnalyst software (Applied Biosystems, Sydney, Australia). Mitochondrial proteins (50 μg) and chloroplast proteins (60 μg chlorophyll) were resolved by sodium dodecyl sulfate–polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS–PAGE) and subsequently transferred to a Hybond ™ -C extra nitrocellulose membrane (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech, Sydney, Australia) using a semi-dry blotting apparatus. Chemiluminescence of secondary antibodies conjugated to horseradish peroxidase was detected using a LAS 1000 (Fuji, Tokyo, Japan). Production of antibodies to Toc64 [BIB36] , Toc34 [BIB37] , TOM20 [BIB38] and uncoupling protein (UCP) [BIB39] has been described previously. Antibodies to the intermembrane space protein cytochrome c and matrix-located HSP60 were purchased from StressGen (Victoria, BC, Canada) and BD BioScience (San Diego, CA, USA) respectively. Creation of GFP fusion constructs, biolistic transformation of soybean cell suspension cultures and visualisation of GFP were performed as previously described [BIB40] . The sequence corresponding to the alternative oxidase (AOX) presequence, full-length Toc64-I, Toc64-III and mtOM64 was amplified with appropriate restriction sites by PCR using plasmid DNA as templates and primers listed as follows: AOXp(BamHI)-fwd, GCTAC GGATCC AACAATGATGATGATGATGAGCC; AOXp(EcoRI)-rev, GTAC GAATTC ACTCCTCACACCACCGCC; Toc64-I(BamHI)-fwd, CGTAC GGATCC AACAATGGCGACCAATATTGATTTTG; Toc64-I(EcoRI)-rev, GTAC GAATTC AATAAATGCAGCAAGGGAATC; Toc64-III(BamHI)-fwd, CGTAC GGATCC AACAATGGCGTCTCAAGCTGCG; Toc64-III(EcoRI)-rev, GTAC GAATTC TATGTGTTTTCGGAGTCTC; mtOM64(BamHI)-fwd, CGTAC GGATCC AACAATGTCGAATACGCTTTC; mtOM64 (EcoRI)-rev, GTAC GAATTC TATGTGTTTTCGGAGTCTC. Arabidopsis tissue (4, 6 and 10 day old cotyledons, 4, 6 and 10 day old roots, 10 day old leaves, flowers and 7 day old suspension cells) was harvested and three independent RNA isolations were carried out using the RNeasy Plant Mini kit (Qiagen, Clifton Hill, Australia). Primers used for real-time PCR analysis were as follows: LC-Toc64-I-fwd, GATGTGGAAGGACGCGTTACC; LC-Toc64-I-rev, GCACTCTATCGAAAGCAATCG; LC-Toc64-III-fwd, GTCTCGCTGGGATTCTTATGC; LC-Toc64-III-rev, CAAATCCAGTCACATACCCTG; LC-mtOM64V-fwd, GTCCACAATGGAAGAAGACTC; LC-mtOM64-rev, CAACAGAAACTGCTGAGCCAC; LC-Toc159-fwd, CCAACCAACCCCTTCTACGC; LC-Toc159-rev, CACCCACCAAATTCGGCTTC; LC-Toc34-fwd, GCAGTTCCCACCTGCTACTC; LC-Toc34-rev, GGTAGGCCTCAGTCCTTCAG. Primers used for real-time PCR analysis of other mitochondrial import components have been described previously [BIB32] .
