!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis thaliana AtHMA4 is a P 1B -type ATPase that clusters with the Zn/Cd/Pb/Co subgroup. It has been previously shown, by heterologous expression and the study of AtHMA4 knockout or overexpressing lines in Arabidopsis [bib1 bib2 bib3] , that AtHMA4 is implicated in zinc homeostasis and cadmium tolerance. Here, we report the study of the heterologous expression of AtHMA4 in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae . AtHMA4 expression resulted in an increased tolerance to Zn, Cd and Pb and to a phenotypic complementation of hypersensitive mutants. In contrast, an increased sensitivity towards Co was observed. An AtHMA4::GFP fusion protein was observed in endocytic vesicles and at the yeast plasma membrane. Mutagenesis of the cysteine and glutamate residues from the N-ter degenerated heavy metal binding domain impaired the function of AtHMA4. It was also the case when the C-ter His 11 stretch was deleted, giving evidence that these amino acids are essential for the AtHMA4 binding/translocation of metals.
!~RES~! Expression of AtHMA4 in yeast was evaluated using an AtHMA4::EGFP fusion chimera. Western blots using anti-EGFP horseradish peroxidase antibodies confirmed the presence of the protein in the microsomal fraction ( [fig2] A). Under fluorescence microscopy, AtHMA4::EGFP fluorescence was observed as an intracellular punctuated staining ( [fig2] B). Such localization was unexpected since in planta AtHMA4 is believed to function as an efflux pump and localized at the plasma membrane in transient expression experiments [bib3] . However, some yeast plasma membrane proteins, such as Ste6p, also exhibit a punctuated distribution due to a rapid turnover resulting from endocytosis [bib12] . Such process could affect AtHMA4 whose sequence displays numerous dileucine motifs hypothesized to initiate an endocytosis-mediated catabolism of this transporter [bib13] . Therefore, we monitored AtHMA4::EGFP localization in the end3 mutant of S. cerevisiae which is known to be defective for endocytosis [bib14] . When expressed in end3 , AtHMA4::EGFP showed a rim-staining pattern revealing a partial localization at the plasma membrane ( [fig2] C). Based on its sequence, AtHMA4 has been predicted as a putative Zn/Cd/Pb/Co transporter. Previous studies have shown that alteration of the level of expression of AtHMA4 in planta or in heterologous systems leads in Zn, Cd and Pb over tolerance/sensitivity [bib1 bib2 bib3] . When expressed in the wild-type yeast strain, AtHMA4 was able to increase the yeast Cd tolerance up to 150 μM as exemplified by drop-test experiments ( [fig3] ). In the ycf1 context, a yeast mutant extremely sensitive to Cd [bib15] , AtHMA4 expression was able to restore the tolerance to Cd to the level of the wild-type ( [fig3] ). Interestingly, the Cd tolerance enhancement conferred by AtHMA4 was unaffected by the GFP fusion at the C-terminal part of the protein (see [fig5] e). A series of drop-test experiments were also carried out in presence of a range of Zn concentrations ( [fig4] A). AtHMA4-transformants were slightly more resistant to Zn than the wild-type strain, up to a concentration of 25 mM. AtHMA4 was also expressed in the zrc1 context. The zrc1 Zn hypersensitive strain is a deletion mutant of the zinc ZRC1 vacuolar transporter belonging to the CDF family [bib16] . As shown in [fig4] A, AtHMA4 expression partially restored the Zn tolerance of the zrc1 strain. Similar experiments were performed with Pb acetate supplied in solid medium. In agreement with a previous work [bib17] , we observed that the ycf1 strain was highly sensitive to Pb. When expressed in the ycf1 context, AtHMA4 was able to partially restore the growth capability of this strain in the presence of Pb ( [fig4] B). Finally, AtHMA4 was expressed in the Co hypersensitive mutant cot1 , defective for the corresponding CDF vacuolar transporter [bib18] . Surprisingly, the AtHMA4 expression enhanced Co sensitivity of the wild-type (not shown) and cot1 strains ( [fig4] C). Other metals were screened (Cu, Ag, Ni and Fe) but no change in yeast tolerance to these metals was observed when AtHMA4 was expressed. Altogether, these results argue that AtHMA4 is able to accept the predicted metals, i.e., Zn/Cd/Pb/Co as substrates, leading to different phenotypes, metal tolerance or sensitivity. It has been shown above that AtHMA4 is able to rescue the Cd hypersensitivity of the ycf1 mutant. In this mutant, an ABC transporter, YCF1 (Yeast Cadmium Factor 1), which drives Cd-diglutathione complexes to the vacuole, is disrupted. It is unclear until now whether P 1B -type ATPases from the Zn/Cd/Pb/Co group require a conjugated form of the metal as substrate. Interestingly, in a recent in vitro biochemical characterization of AtHMA2 the presence of millimolar free cysteine was required to observe the phosphorylation of the enzyme in the presence of metal [bib8] . This result suggests that a conjugated form of the metal is required as substrate. To determine if AtHMA4 accepts as a substrate Cd-glutathione complexes, we used buthionine sulfoximine (BSO), a known inhibitor of the γ-glutamylcysteine synthase [bib19] . In the presence of 70 μM Cd and 5 mM BSO, the ycf1 strain growth was completely inhibited while wild-type-pYES2 and ycf1-YCF1 strains grew slightly ( [fig5] b and c). Interestingly, the strains expressing AtHMA4 or AtHMA4::EGFP grew at the same rate in the presence or absence of BSO ( [fig5] d and e). This result shows that, contrarily to YCF1, AtHMA4 does not need a glutathione S -conjugated form of the metal to transport Cd. To determine whether increased tolerance to Cd and ycf1 phenotypic complementation were due to metal transport or to a metal chelation, a D401A substitution in AtHMA4 (AtHMA4D401A) was generated. Asp-401 belongs to the strictly conserved DKTGT motif in all P-ATPases, and is predicted to be the invariant residue phosphorylated in the activated enzyme during catalysis [bib20] . Thus, the transport function should be impaired in the AtHMA4D401A mutant, as previously described for AtHMA3 [bib11] . Indeed, as exemplified in [fig2] A, this mutant form, when expressed in yeast, did not induce any increased tolerance to Cd and Zn nor complementation of the ycf1 and zrc1 strains ( [fig3 fig4 fig5] ). Liquid culture experiments carried out in the same range of cadmium concentrations used in drop-tests confirmed the results obtained on plates (data not shown). These results demonstrate that Cd resistance induced by AtHMA4 expression results from the transport activity of the enzyme. Additionally, Cd and Zn contents in the wild-type yeast and AtHMA4 -transformed strains were compared by ICP-AES ( [fig6] ). When AtHMA4 was expressed in the wild-type strain, the Cd content was drastically diminished compared to the level found in pYES2-only transformants (a drop of 50% and 62% in the Cd content for yeast cells grown in the presence of 40 and 80 μM Cd, respectively). Similar results were obtained for the Zn content determined after growth of the yeast strains under standard conditions (a drop of 40% was observed). In contrast, at very high Zn concentration (20 mM), the Zn tolerant phenotype was independent of a Zn decrease in the yeast strain expressing AtHMA4, as exemplified in [fig6] . Given the strong Cd tolerance phenotype acquired by yeasts expressing AtHMA4, site-directed mutagenesis was used to determine the functional importance of the specific MBD of AtHMA4 in Cd resistance. These experiments were carried out with different altered forms of AtHMA4::EGFP affecting the N-ter MBD, the CPC domain, the C-ter first two dicysteine motifs and His 11 stretch. The expression of the different altered versions was verified by western blots (data not shown). The P 1B -type ATPases present one or more HMA domains (70 aa in length including a MBD with the conserved sequence GMxCxxC) in their hydrophilic amino-terminal region [bib21] . Instead of this conserved motif, AtHMA4 presents the degenerated sequence G 25 ICCTSE 31 . As shown in [fig7] , all substitutions affecting this degenerated core sequence had deleterious effects on the AtHMA4 complementation efficiency. Thus, in the presence of various Cd or Zn concentrations, the AtHMA4C27A and AtHMA4C28A failed to complement the ycf1 and zrc 1 strains, respectively. Nevertheless, the AtHMA4E31A altered version slightly rescued the ycf1 ( [fig7] A) but not the zrc1 strains (Fig. 7B). These results highlight an essential role of the double cystein motif in the activity of the enzyme and to a lesser extent a functional role of the glutamate that could participate in the metal binding aim to its carboxylic group. It has been shown in CadA, the Cd 2+ -ATPase of Listeria monocytogenes , that both cysteine residues in the CPC motif are essential for phosphorylation of the enzyme and substitutions of these residues impair the function of the enzyme [bib22] . A similar loss of function was observed when the first cysteine from the CPC motif of AtHMA4 were substituted for a serine (data not shown). Such result was unexpected since few P 1B -type ATPases, among which AtHMA1 rather close to AtHMA4, bear such SPC degenerated motif [bib23] . The AtHMA4 protein presents an unusually large hydrophilic C-ter extension of about 450 aa that brings numerous putative MBDs such as 12 cysteine pairs. As the first two pairs are the only conserved at the C-ter part of the Cd/Pb transporter AtHMA3 [bib11] , we hypothesized that they could play an important role for the metal transport function. However, AtHMA4C754/5A and AtHMA4C782/3A substitutions, affecting the first two cysteine pairs at the C-ter part of the protein, had no effect on the ycf1 ( [fig7] A) and the zrc1 complementations ( [fig7] B). A peculiarity of AtHMA4 is to present an eleven histidine stretch at its C-ter part. Such an His-rich motif is found in the N-ter part of few P 1B -ATPases, such AtHMA1 from A. thaliana or BXA1 from Oscillatoria brevis which transports both monovalent and divalent cations [bib24] . Biochemical experiments on the Cu 2+ ATPase CopB from Archeoglobus fulgidus have demonstrated that the deletion of the His-rich N-ter MBD leads to a half decrease of the metal transport rate [bib10] . When expressed in yeast, AtHMA4ΔHis, the form truncated of the C-ter His 11 stretch, failed to complement any of the hypersensitive mutant strains (Fig.7). This result shows that this histidine stretch, also found in AtHMA2, is essential to the function of the protein.
!~MM~! Cloning of the AtHMA4 cDNA was performed as previously described in [bib11] except the primer pair used: 1HMA4 as 5′-end primer, and Rev14HMA4 as 3′-end reverse primer, both designed on the BAC sequence At2g19110. The full-length AtHMA4 cDNA was obtained in a unique fragment by a two steps RT-PCR, cloned in the pCR ® –XL-TOPO vector (Invitrogen™), and sequenced (GenBank Accession No. AF412407 ). Then, AtHMA4 cDNA was excised from the pCR ® –XL-TOPO vector and cloned into the yeast expression vector pYES2 under a galactose-inducible promoter. To obtain the AtHMA4ΔHis altered version (deleted of the last 16 aa at the C-ter end), a Stop codon was introduced by PCR in the AtHMA4 cDNA using the primer pair: 22HMA4 as forward and HMA4Stop as reverse oligonucleotides, and the fragment was subcloned into the plasmid pYES2- AtHMA4 . To create the AtHMA4::EFGP fusion, the AtHMA4 cDNA was excised from the pCR ® –XL-TOPO vector and cloned in frame into the pYES2-GFP vector [bib11] . The various substituted forms of AtHMA4 were obtained using the Quickchange site-directed mutagenesis kit (Stratagene) using the pYES2- AtHMA4::EGFP vector as a template. Saccharomyces cerevisiae reference strain BY4741 ( MATa ; his 3 Δ 1; leu 2 Δ 0; met 15 Δ 0; ura 3 Δ 0) and mutant strains ycf1 (like BY4741 except YDR135c::kanMX4 ), zcr1 (like BY4741 except YMR243c::kanMX4 ), cot1 (strain BY4742: MATα ; his 3 Δ 1; leu 2 Δ 0; lys 2 Δ 0; ura 3 Δ 0; YOR 316 c :: kanMX 4) and end3 (like BY4741 except YNL084c::kanMX4 ) were provided by Euroscarf (Frankfurt, Germany). YCF1::EGFP fusion cloned into the pYES2 vector was used to complement the ycf1 strain. Yeast transformation and growth conditions were as described in [bib11] . All metal tolerance assays were performed as previously described in [bib11] . For the drop-test experiments on solid media, 2 μL of the yeast cultures at O.D. 600 nm = 2.0 was spread (1.6 × 10 4 cells) and three 10-fold serial dilutions were made. Metal solutions (ZnSO 4 ; CdCl 2 ; Pb(CH 3 COO) 2 ; CoCl 2 ) were added to the liquid or solid media at the concentrations indicated in the figure legends. The yeast strains expressing the AtHMA4::EGFP fusion protein were grown as described in [bib11] . EGFP excitation was performed at 470–490 nm using a DM505 dichroic mirror. Observations were carried out at a magnification of 100×/1.35 na (UplanApo), under oil immersion. The EGFP fluorescence was monitored with a color camera (Cohu Electronics), and analyzed with the analySIS software. Yeast cells were grown as described for metal tolerance assays. Cell mineralization and heavy metal content determination by ICP were as described in [bib11] .
