!~ABS~! Enzymes that reduce the aldehyde chemical grouping (i.e. H-C=O) to its corresponding alcohol could be crucial in maintaining plant health. Recently, recombinant expression of a cytosolic enzyme from Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh (designated as glyoxylate reductase 1 or AtGR1) revealed that it effectively catalyses the in vitro reduction of both glyoxylate and succinic semialdehyde (SSA). In this paper, web-based bioinformatics tools revealed a second putative GR cDNA (GenBank Accession No. AAP42747; designated herein as AtGR2) that is 57% identical on an amino acid basis to GR1. Sequence encoding a putative targeting signal (N-terminal 43 amino acids) was deleted from the full-length GR2 cDNA and the resulting truncated gene was co-expressed with the molecular chaperones GroES/EL in Escherichia coli, enabling production and purification of soluble recombinant protein. Kinetic analysis revealed that recombinant GR2 catalysed the conversion of glyoxylate to glycolate (Km glyoxylate=34 μM), and SSA to γ-hydroxybutyrate (Km SSA=8.96 mM) via an essentially irreversible, NADPH-based mechanism. GR2 had a 350-fold higher preference for glyoxylate than SSA, based on the performance constants (kcat/Km). Fluorescence microscopic analysis of tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.) suspension cells transiently transformed with GR1 linked to the green fluorescent protein (GFP) revealed that GR1 was localized to the cytosol, whereas GR2-GFP was localized to plastids via targeting information contained within its N-terminal 45 amino acids. The identification and characterization of distinct plastidial and cytosolic glyoxylate reductase isoforms is discussed with respect to aldehyde detoxification and the plant stress response.
!~RES~! A search of the GenBank database with GR1 enabled identification of a full-length Arabidopsis cDNA, which encodes a 343-amino acid polypeptide with a predicted molecular mass of 36.2 kDA, an isoelectric point of 8.54, a net charge of 4 at neutral pH, and 57% identity and 72% similarity to GR1 ([fig1]). Thus, the gene encoding the polypeptide has been designated as AtGR2 for A. thaliana GR2. GR2 possesses an additional 51 N-terminal amino acids compared to GR1, and analysis of this region using TargetP ([bib12]et al., 2000), ChloroP ([bib13]et al., 1999), and PSORT ([bib28]) (http://www.expasy.org/tools/) predicted the existence of a transit peptide that varied in length from 29 to 36 amino acids ([fig1]), although the subcellular location of GR2 was ambiguous, with Predator ([bib39]et al., 2004) (http://genoplante-info.infobiogen.fr/predotar/), and TargetP favouring a mitochondrial location, and ChloroP and PSORT favouring a plastidial location (data not shown). As a compromise, in this study the N-terminal 43 (see ‘Production and characterization of recombinant Arabidopsis GR2’) or 45 (see ‘Transient expression and subcellular localization of Arabidopsis GR1 and GR2 in BY-2 cells’) amino acids were deleted from the full-length GR2 cDNA. The GR2 polypeptide has been tentatively identified as a 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase in The Arabidopsis Information Resource (http//www.arabidopsis.org/), but there is no published biochemical evidence to support such a function. ClustalW comparison of the predicted amino acid sequences for the full-length GR1 and GR2. Numbers indicate amino acid number. The first 51 amino acids in GR2 represent its putative targeting sequence, and the arrows indicate peptide cleavage sites as predicted by three web-based algorithms (ChloroP, TargetP, PSORT) for predicting subcellular localization. Identical and similar amino acids are shown by black and grey shading, respectively. Both the full-length and truncated GR2 sequences were cloned into the pET15b vector, which was then introduced into E. coli. Only the recombinant truncated GR2 was soluble, and this was markedly improved by co-expression of the GroES/GroEL chaperone ([fig2]). Comparison of total protein from the lysates of cells transformed with the truncated gene insert ([fig2]) or with an empty insert ([fig2]) revealed a prominent band at approximately 35.9 kDa, the predicted size of the recombinant protein [31.4 kDa (300 amino acids) for the truncated sequence plus 2.18 kDA (20 amino acids) and 2.4 kDa (23 amino acids) representing the N-terminal (including the His6 epitope) and C-terminal flanking sequences translated from the pET-15Bvector, respectively]. Therefore, soluble recombinant truncated GR2 for biochemical analysis was isolated from cells co-expressing the chaperone and subjected to affinity chromatography, enabling purification to near homogeneity ([fig2]). Immunoblot analysis of total protein, insoluble, soluble or purified protein, using an antibody against the His6 tag, revealed a prominent band at approximately 35.9 kDa ([fig2]). Expression and purification of recombinant GR2 extracted from E. coli cells co-expressing the GroES/GroEL chaperone complex. The top row illustrates SDS-PAGE analysis of protein lysates from cells transformed with the truncated gene insert (A) or the empty insert (B), respectively, whereas the bottom row illustrates SDS (C) and immunoblot (D) analysis of protein lysates from cells transformed with the truncated gene insert. The gels were stained with Coomassie Blue, whereas the immunoblot was probed with an anti-His antibody. The EL subunit of the chaperone complex (1) and the recombinant protein (2) are indicated. Enzyme activity was reasonably stable when the concentrated protein eluate from the affinity column was aliquoted and stored at –80 °C for months or at 4 °C for hours. For enzyme assays, the protein eluate was diluted appropriately with elution buffer (see Materials and methods) so that the initial rate of reaction could be readily determined. During the assays, the diluted enzyme was stored at 4 °C; however, activity began to decrease within 30 min. Therefore, multiple aliquots were required for detailed studies of pH and substrate specificity. Maximal enzyme activity, which was determined with saturating glyoxylate and NADPH, was observed at pH 6.8 to 7.8 ([fig3]); consequently, all subsequent assays were performed at pH 7.6. Preliminary assays of enzyme activity were conducted with, presumably, saturating concentrations of glyoxylate, SSA, glycolate, GHB, or 6-phosphogluconate and NADPH or NADP+. The protein catalysed the reduction of both glyoxylate and SSA using either NADPH or NADH as a cofactor; however, much greater activity was found with NADPH. For example, the reaction rate at 28 μM glyoxylate and 50 μM NADPH was 36 times faster than with glyoxylate and NADH at the same concentration. The enzyme also catalysed the reverse reaction involving GHB and NADP+, but at a lower rate than the forward reaction. For example, the rate with 7 mM GHB and 50 μM NADP+ was 170 times slower than the forward reaction with 7 mM SSA and 50 μM NADPH. However, the enzyme was ineffective in catalysing the reverse reaction utilizing either glycolate or 6-phosphogluconate. Thus, this polypeptide appears to be primarily dependent on NADPH and functions in an essentially irreversible manner. Dependence of GR2 activity on pH. Activity was determined using saturating glyoxylate and NADPH as substrates, and 2-morpholino-ethanesulphonic acid (pH 5.5–6.8), HEPES (pH 6.8–8.2), N-tris(hydroxymethyl)methyl-4-aminobutanesulphonic acid (pH 8.2–9.6), and 3-(cyclohexylamino)-1-propanesulphonic acid (pH 9.7) as buffers. Data represent the mean ±SE. of triplicate measurements from a typical enzyme preparation. Characterization of the forward reaction by varying the concentration of glyoxylate or SSA at saturating concentration of NADPH, and the concentration of NADPH at a saturating concentration of glyoxylate or SSA resulted in hyperbolic saturation kinetics, with Lineweaver–Burke and Eadie–Hofstee transformations of the data displaying linear dependence (plots not shown). Data from three independent enzyme preparations revealed that Vmax was similar for glyoxylate and SSA reduction, whereas the affinity for the two substrates was very different, with the Km for glyoxylate being 130 times lower than that for SSA ([tbl1]). By contrast, the Vmax and Km values for NADPH were similar in the presence of glyoxylate and SSA. Overall, the performance constants (kcat/Km) revealed that the recombinant GR2 had a 350-fold higher preference for glyoxylate than SSA, but the preference for NADPH was unaffected by the preference for glyoxylate and SSA. Kinetic parameters for recombinant GR2 Kinetic data for varied substrate concentrations were best fit by non-linear regression analysis. Parameters represent the mean ±SE of three independent enzyme preparations. Tobacco BY-2 cells were co-transformed (via biolistic bombardment) with GR1-GFP, consisting of GR1 fused to the N-terminus of the GFP, and the RFP and examined using fluorescence microscopy. As shown in [fig4] the diffuse fluorescence pattern attributable to transiently-expressed GR1-GFP was similar to the fluorescence attributable to co-expressed RFP which lacks any inherent subcellular targeting information, indicating that GR1-GFP was localized throughout the cytosol. On the other hand, transient expression of GR2-GFP revealed that this fusion protein displayed a punctate and tubular-like fluorescence pattern that was similar to the fluorescence pattern attributable to endogenous NAGK ([fig4]), a well-characterized plastid stromal enzyme ([bib9]et al., 2006). The co-localization between GR2-GFP and NAGK was also evident by the yellow colour in the merged image ([fig4]), indicating that GR2 is localized to plastids. Localization of GR1-GFP and GR2-GFP in transformed BY-2 cells. Images represent the localization of transiently-expressed or endogenous proteins in (co-) transformed (via biolistic bombardment) cells including (A) GR1-GFP and (B) RFP, (C) GR2-GFP and (D) NAGK, (F) GR2 1–45-GFP and (G) NAGK, and (I) GR2 Δ2–45-GFP and (J) NAGK. (E) and (H) represent the corresponding merged images of the same cells shown in (C) and (D), and (F) and (G), respectively. Bar=10 μm. As indicated above, web-based prediction analyses revealed the presence of a targeting signal peptide in the unique N-terminal extension of GR2, with the length of these predicted targeting peptides varying from 29 to 36 amino acids. As shown in [fig4] (F–H), the fusion protein GR2 1–45-GFP consisting of the N-terminal 45 amino acids of GR2 fused to GFP displayed a punctate and tubular-like fluorescence pattern that, similar to GR2-GFP (compare with [fig4]), co-localized with the fluorescence pattern attributable to endogenous plastidial NAGK. Deletion of the N-terminal 2–45 amino acids from GR2, however, resulted in the fusion protein (GR2 Δ2–45-GFP) localizing throughout the cytosol ([fig4]) and not to plastids, as shown by the lack of co-localization of GR2 Δ2–45 with endogenous NAGK ([fig4]). Overall, these data indicate that the N-terminal 45 amino acid residues of GR2 contain targeting information that is both sufficient and necessary for sorting the protein to plastids. To determine whether GR2 was actually localized within plastids and not simply adjacent to the outside of the organelle, cells were differentially permeabilized with either triton X-100 or digitonin and then processed for immunofluorescence microscopy as above. triton X-100 permeabilizes all cellular membranes in BY-2 cells ([bib27]et al., 1997), allowing the immunodetection with applied antibodies of protein epitopes located within the cytosol and within subcellular compartments. Digitonin, however, permeabilizes only the plasma membrane ([bib27]et al., 1997), allowing for the immunodetection of cytosolic, but not intraorganellar epitopes. As illustrated in [fig5], the fluorescence attributable to GR2-GFP was visible in both triton X-100- and digitonin-permeabilized cells due to the intrinsic fluorescence of the GFP moiety. However, when antibodies raised against the GFP moiety were used to detect GR2-GFP in the same transformed cells the immunofluorescence attributable to the expressed fusion protein was observed in cells permeabilized with triton X-100, but not in cells permeabilized with digitonin ([fig5]). Similarly, control experiments revealed that, while endogenous NAGK was immunodetected in the same GR2-GFP transformed cells permeabilized with triton X-100, the endogenous stromal protein was not immunodetected in digitonin-permeabilized cells ([fig5]). [fig5] also indicate that cytosolic tubulin was immunodetected in both triton X-100- and digitonin-permeabilized GR2-GFP-transformed cells as expected. Taken together, these data indicate that GR2, like NAGK, is localized within the plastid of BY-2 cells, presumably in the stroma. Localization of GR2-GFP in differentially-permeabilized BY-2 cells. Images shown represent individual GR2-GFP-transformed cells that were fixed and permeabilized with either triton X-100 (top rows) or digitonin (bottom rows) and then immunostained with either (A) anti-NAGK and anti-tubulin or (B) anti-GFP and anti-tubulin antibodies. Note that in the GR2-GFP-transformed cells that were permeabilized with digitonin, neither endogenous NAGK, nor GR2-GFP, was immunostained. Bar=10 μm.
!~MM~! The A. thaliana (L.) Heynh GR1 cDNA (Accession No. AY044183) was blasted against the GenBank database and a full-length Arabidopsis cDNA sequence (Accession No. AAP42747), which is 57% homologous to GR1 at the amino acid level, was found. This sequence, designated as a putative GR2, was amplified from Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia mature rosette leaf cDNA with AmpiTaq DNA polymerase (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA, USA) according to the manufacturer's protocols. The full-length sequence was amplified using primers 5′-GGAATTCCATATGATGGCTTTGTGCTCTATCTG-3′ and 5′-CGCGGATCCAGCTTCTCGGGATTTTGC-3′, which provided NdeI and BamHI restriction sites, respectively. A truncated cDNA sequence lacking the N-terminal 43 amino acids was amplified using primers 5′-GGAATTCCCATATGTCTACCAGAGATGAACTTGGAAC-3′ and 5′-GGAATTCCCATATGAGCTTCTCGGGATTTTGC-3′, which provided NdeI restriction sites on both ends. The amplified polymerase chain reaction (PCR) products (1039 and 910 bp, respectively) were cloned into the pET-15b expression vector (Novagen, EMD Biosciences Inc., Madison, WI, USA) and sent to Genologics (University of Guelph, Laboratory Services Branch, Guelph, ON, Canada) for sequencing (ABI PRISM Sequencer Model 377, PerkinElmer Life Sciences, Foster City, CA, USA). The GR2 constructs were expressed in E. coli BL-21(DE3) Rosetta (pLysS) cells (Novagen) co-expressing the GroES/GroEL chaperone complex ([bib11]et al., 1994). To isolate recombinant GR2, the transformed cells were grown at 37 °C and 225 rpm in Luria-Bertani (LB) broth containing ampicillin (50 mg ml−1), chloramphenicol (34 mg ml−1), and kanamycin (30 mg ml−1) to an OD600 of 0.6. The growing temperature of the culture was then reduced to 25 °C, and the cells were induced for 5 h by adding isopropyl-β-D-thiogalactopyranoside to a final concentration of 0.25 mM. Then the cells were pelleted by centrifugation, weighed, and frozen at –20 °C. Purified protein was obtained by suspending the frozen pellet in a TRIS–HCl (50 mM) buffer (pH 8.2) containing the protease inhibitors, phenylmethylsulphonyl-fluoride (1 mM), pepstatin A (1 μg ml−1), and leupeptin (2 μg ml−1). Soluble and insoluble cellular contents were separated by adding lysozyme (1 mg ml−1), MgCl2 (50 mM), and a few DNase crystals and incubating the mixture on ice with gentle shaking for 1 h; 6 mM 3-[3-cholamido-propyl) dimethylammonio]-1-propanesulphonate was added after 30 min. Insoluble contents were pelleted by centrifugation and the resulting supernatant was passed over a nickel affinity column according to the manufacturer's protocols (Sigma-Aldrich, Oakville, ON, Canada). His6-tagged GR2 protein was eluted from the column in a TRIS–HCl (50 mM) buffer (pH 8.2) containing 500 mM imidazole and 10% glycerol, and immediately assayed for enzymatic activity as described below. Thereafter, the preparation was aliquoted and frozen at –80 °C, and thawed as necessary for detailed studies. Denaturating 12% sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) ([bib26]) was used to visualize protein preparations. Immunoblotting was conducted according to standard protocols ([bib35]et al., 1989) using the His-Tag monoclonal antibody (Novagen), the anti-mouse antibody (Sigma-Aldrich), and the alkaline phosphatase conjugate substrate kit (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Hercules, CA, USA) for detection. Molecular weight standards were purchased from Fermentas Life Sciences (Burlington, ON, Canada). Protein concentration was determined via the Bradford method ([bib6]), using the assay kit provided by Bio-Rad Laboratories (Canada) Ltd.; bovine serum albumin (fraction V, Pierce) was used as the standard. Enzymatic activity was measured by observing the oxidation or reduction of NADPH (designated as the forward and reverse reactions, respectively) at A340 and 30 °C using a Beckman Du640 (Beckman Coulter Canada Inc., Mississauga, ON, Canada) or a Cary 300 (Varian Canada Inc., Mississauga, ON, Canada) double-beam absorption spectrophotometer. For the forward reaction, the 0.8 ml standard mixture contained 50 mM 4-(2-hydroxyethyl)piperazine-1-ethanesulphonic acid (HEPES) (pH 7.6), 20% sorbitol, 50 μM NADPH, and 37.6 nM purified GR2. The reaction was initiated with 4.0 mM SSA or 50 μM glyoxylate. Preliminary data were collected on the forward reactions using NADH and the reverse reactions (GHB→SSA; glycolate→glyoxylate) using NAD(P)+. For the forward reaction, NADPH was replaced with 50 μM NADH. For the reverse reaction, HEPES and NADPH were replaced with 50 mM N-tris(hydroxymethyl)methyl-4-aminobutanesulphonic acid (pH 9.2) and 50 μM NADP+, respectively, and the reaction was initiated with 7 mM GHB, 10 mM glycolate, or 10 mM 6-phosphogluconate. Specific enzyme activity was a linear function of protein concentration from 2.2 nM to 35.4 nM. The optimal pH for enzyme activity was determined using buffers (50 mM) with overlapping pH range (2-morpholino-ethanesulphonic acid for pH 5.5–6.8; HEPES for pH 6.8–8.2; N-tris(hydroxymethyl)methyl-4-aminobutanesulphonic acid for pH 8.2–9.6; and 3-(cyclohexylamino)-1-propanesulphonic acid for pH 9.7). The final pH was adjusted from 5.5–9.7 with HCl or NaOH. Kinetic data were obtained for the forward (SSA→GHB and glyoxylate→glycolate) reactions by measuring initial rates (i.e. first 5 s) at fixed concentration of NADPH and varied concentrations of SSA or glyoxylate. All measurements were obtained in triplicate and the kinetic data were fit to the Michaelis–Menten equation (V=Vmax[S]/Km+[S]) using non-linear least square analysis (SigmaPlot2000, version 6.1; Enzyme Kinetics Module, version 1.0). From the kinetic parameters (Vmax, Km, kcat) a performance constant (kcat/Km) was calculated for each substrate. A higher constant reveals the preferred substrate. Standard recombinant DNA procedures were performed as described by [bib35]et al. (1989). Molecular biology reagents were purchased from New England Biolabs (Mississauga, ON, Canada), Promega (Nepean, ON, Canada), Perkin-Elmer Life Sciences, Stratagene (La Jolla, CA, USA), or Invitrogen (Burlington, ON, Canada). Oligonucleotides were synthesized by Genologics. DNA was isolated and purified using reagent kits purchased from Qiagen (Mississauga, ON, Canada). All DNA constructs were sequenced using dye-terminated cycle sequencing by Genologics. Complete details of the oligonucleotide primers used in the gene cloning and plasmid constructions described below are available upon request. Plant expression plasmids containing the Arabidopsis GR1 and GR2 open reading frames (ORFs) were constructed as follows. First, the GR1 and GR2 ORFs were amplified from pET15bGR1 and pET15bGR2, respectively, with appropriate forward and reverse primers that introduced NcoI or NheI restriction sites 5′ and 3′ of the GR1 and GR2 start and stop codons, respectively. The resulting PCR products were then gel-purified and subcloned into pCR2.1 (Invitrogen) to produce pCR2.1/GR1 and pCR2.1/GR2. Next, pCR2.1/GR1 and pCR2.1/GR2 were digested with NcoI and NheI, respectively, and the resulting fragments were subsequently gel-purified and ligated into either NcoI-digested pUC18/NcoI-GFP (green fluorescent protein) or NheI-digested pUC18/NheI-GFP, pUC18/GR1-GFP and pUC18/GR2-GFP. pUC18/NcoI-GFP is a plant expression vector that includes the 35S cauliflower mosaic virus promoter and the GFP ORF immediately downstream from a unique in-frame NcoI site ([bib10]et al., 1996). pUC18/NheI-GFP is a modified version of pUC18/NcoI-GFP in which sequences corresponding to the NcoI site were altered (via PCR site-directed mutagenesis) to a NheI site. pUC18/GR2 1-45-GFP was constructed by amplifying sequences in the GR2 ORF that encoded for the protein's N-terminal 45 amino acid residues, including the predicted plastid targeting sequence (see Supplementary Fig. S1 at JXB online). pUC18/GR2 Δ2–45-GFP was constructed by amplifying the GR2 ORF, but without the protein's N-terminal 2-44 amino acid residues. Both amplicons were generated using PCR along with pET15bGR2 as template DNA and the appropriate forward and reverse mutagenic primers that introduced 5′ and 3′ NheI sites. For pUC18/GR2 Δ2–45-GFP, the forward mutagenic primer also introduced sequences coding for an initiation (methionine) codon. The amplicon corresponding to GR2 lacking its N-terminal 2-44 amino acid residues was subcloned into the pCR2.1 vector, followed by digestion with NheI and ligation into NheI-digested pUC18/NheI-GFP, yielding pUC18/GR2 Δ2-45-GFP. Similarly, the PCR product consisting of the N-terminal 45 amino acids of GR2 was digested with NheI and ligated directly into NheI-digested pUC18/NheI-GFP, yielding pUC18/GR2 1–45-GFP. Construction of pRTL2/MCS-RFP-stop, encoding the full-length red fluorescent protein (RFP) and convenient 5′ multiple cloning sites has been described elsewhere ([bib38]et al., 2006). Tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L. cv. BY-2) suspension-cultured cells were maintained and prepared for biolistic bombardment as described previously ([bib4]). Briefly, transient transformations were performed using 5 μg of plasmid DNA with a biolistic particle delivery system 1000/HE (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Mississauga, ON, Canada). Bombarded cells were incubated for 20 h to allow for expression and sorting of the introduced gene, fixed in formaldehyde, incubated with 0.01% (w/v) pectolyase Y-23 (Kyowa Hakko Chemical Co., Chuo-ku Tokyo, Japan), and permeabilized with either 0.3% (v/v) Triton X-100 or 25 μg ml−1 digitonin (Sigma-Aldrich Inc.) ([bib27]et al., 1997). Fixed and permeabilized cells were then incubated with the appropriate primary and secondary antibodies. Antibodies and sources were as follows: mouse anti-tubulin IgGs (Sigma-Aldrich Inc.); rabbit anti-N-acetyl glutamate kinase (NAGK) (kindly provided by Dr Greg Moorehead at the University of Calgary; [bib9]et al., 2006); rabbit anti-GFP IgGs (Molecular Probes, Burlington, ON, Canada); goat anti-rabbit rhodamine red-X IgGs (Jackson ImmunoResearch Laboratories, West Grove, PA, USA); goat anti-rabbit Cy3 (Cedar Lane Laboratories, Burlington, ON, Canada); and goat anti-mouse Alexa 350 (Molecular Probes). Epifluorescent images of BY-2 cells were acquired using a Zeiss Axioscope 2 MOT epifluorescence microscope (Carl Zeiss Inc., Thornwood, NY, USA) with a Zeiss 63× Plan Apochromat oil-immersion objective. Image capture was performed using a Retiga 1300 charge-coupled device camera (Qimaging, Burnaby, BC, Canada) and Northern Eclipse 5.0 software (Empix Imaging Inc., Mississauga, ON, Canada). CLSM images of BY-2 cells were acquired using a Leica DM RBE (Leica Microsystems Inc., Richmond Hill, ON, Canada) microscope with a Leica 63× Plan Apochromat oil-immersion objective a Leica TCS SP2 scanning head, and the Leica TCS NT software package (version 2.61). Fluorophore emissions were collected sequentially in double-labelling experiments; single-labelling experiments exhibited no detectable crossover at the settings used for data collections. Confocal images were acquired as single optical sections and saved as 512×512 pixel digital images. All fluorescence images of cells shown in the figures are representative of >50 independent (transient) transformations from at least two independent transformation experiments. Figure compositions were generated using Adobe Photoshop CS (Adobe Systems Inc., Toronto, ON, Canada).
