!~ABS~! Using various methods, e.g., spectrophotometry, circular dichroism, and isothermal titration calorimetry, the interaction of poncean S (PS) with human serum albumin (HSA) was characterized at pH 1.81, 3.56, and 7.40 using the spectral correction technique, and Langmuir and Temkin isothermal models. The consistency among results concerning, e.g., binding number, binding energy, and type of binding, showed that ion pair electrostatic attraction fixed the position of PS in HSA and subsequently induced a combination of multiple noncovalent bonds such as H-bonds, hydrophobic interactions, and van der Waals forces. Ion pair attraction and H-bonds produced a stable PS-HSA complex and led to a marked change in the secondary structure of HSA in acidic media. The PS-HSA binding pattern and the process of change in HSA conformation were also investigated. The potentially toxic effect of PS on the transport function of HSA in a normal physiological environment was analyzed. This work provides a useful experimental strategy for studying the interaction of organic substances with biomacromolecules, helping us to understand the activity or mechanism of toxicity of an organic compound.
!~RES~! [fig1] illustrates the color change of PS solution in the presence of HSA and also shows the chemical structure of PS. PS is an orange anionic azo compound in aqueous solution 1, and it reacts with HSA to form a red product in solution 2. The absorption spectrum of the product shows a marked red shift. HSA-PS solutions were measured in various pH media, and their absorption spectra are shown in [fig2] A . The interval between the positive peak and the negative trough increases with increasing acidity of solution. From curves 1–4, the peak valley interval changes little when the pH is below 3.56. Given the dissociation constants ( K R ) of the side groups ( R ) of basic and acidic amino acid residues (AARs) (10.53 for Lys, 6.00 for His, 12.48 for Arg, 3.65 for Asp, and 4.25 for Glu), no R groups will have a negative charge when the pH is <3.65, whereas the R s of the basic AARs will be positively charged. PS anions will enter the HSA cleft with no charge repulsion. However, there are 98 negatively charged acidic AARs in HSA, together with 98 positively charged basic AARs when the pH is >4.25. Entry of PS will therefore be opposed by charge repulsion. Therefore, from curves 6–11, the binding of PS to HSA becomes progressively weaker. The two troughs in each curve indicate that PS-HSA binding is heterogeneous at any pH, i.e., there is a mixture of complexes linked via two, three, and four sulfonate groups because the PS concentration is not high enough. To compare the interactions of PS with HSA in various pH media including that of normal blood, i.e., pH 7.40, three buffer solutions, pH 1.81, 3.56, and 7.40, were used. From curves 1, 4, and 11 in A, 568 ( λ 2 ) and 495 nm ( λ 1 ) were the wavelengths that most clearly indicated the binding process and were used in subsequent work. From the absorption spectra shown in [fig2] B , it is apparent that formation of the PS-HSA complex resulted in red shifts: from 497 to 565 nm (curve 1) at pH 1.81 and from 500 to 566 nm (curves 2 and 3) at pH 3.56 and 7.40. Interestingly, a secondary trough appears at 528 nm only in curve 1. A possible reason is that the unfolding of HSA at pH 1.81 increases the distances among positively charged AARs. The dissociation constants ( K a ) of PS ( L ) were also determined spectrophotometrically [bib38] , and the results indicated that p K a is between 2 and 3 for H 2 L 3− and more than 9 for HL 4− . Therefore, H 2 L 3− and HL 4− were both present in the pH 1.81 solution, leading to three and four ionic bonds between HSA and each PS molecule. Thus, PS-HSA binding is heterogeneous at pH 1.81 even if there is sufficient PS in solution to achieve saturation. The interaction of PS ( L ) with HSA ( M ) is summarized as follows: N PS + HSA ⇄ K b HSA ( PS ) N Initiation C L 0 ( A λ 2 0 ) C M 0 0 Eqilibrium C L = C L0 − NC M0 ( A λ1 , A λ2 ) C M → 0 C M0 ( A C ) From the color change in [fig1] , it is clear that to determine the absorbance of the PS-HSA complex in solution 3, interference by excess PS in solution 4 must be eliminated. The spectral correction technique [bib33] proposed previously is a useful method for this; it involves measuring solutions 1, 2, and 3. The effective fraction ( f ) of PS bound to HSA and the molar ratio ( γ ) of PS bound to HSA are calculated by the relationships [bib39] (3) f = A c − A λ 2 A λ 2 0 + 1 and (4) γ = f × C L 0 C M 0 , where (5) A c = A λ 2 − β A λ 1 1 − α β . Returning to the reaction equation above, C M0 and C L0 are the initial molar concentrations of HSA and PS; A c indicates the real absorbance of the HSA-PS complex in solution 3 at 568 nm, which cannot be measured directly. A λ 2 and A λ 1 are the absorbances of the HSA-PS solution 3 measured at 568 and 495 nm, respectively, against water; α and β are correction constants and were calculated by measuring solutions 2 and 1 shown in [fig1] . The γ value will approach the saturation number ( N ) of PS bound with the increase of PS in a HSA solution. The absorbance ratios of the HSA-PS solutions were measured at 495 and 568 nm ( [fig3] A ). The A 495 / A 568 ratios in three pH media all decrease with increasing HSA concentration and approach a constant value of 1.6 when the molar concentration of HSA is more than 1.2 times that of PS. This indicates that more and more PS molecules became bound to HSA until no excess PS was free in solution, i.e., solution 2 in [fig1] . Thus, the constant minimum should be α of the binding product; the β values of PS in various media correspond to the A 568 / A 495 ratio in the absence of HSA, which are located at the beginnings of curves 1–3. By measuring a series of PS solutions containing known concentrations of HSA, A c , f , and γ were calculated using Eqs. [eq1 eq2 eq3] . The variation in γ with PS is shown in [fig3] B ; the value increases with increasing PS concentration. Moreover, the values approach the following maxima: 30 when the PS/HSA molar ratio is more than 30 (from curve 1), 25 when the ratio is more than 25 (from curve 2), and 1.7 when the ratio is more than 5 (from curve 3). These results indicate that the binding of PS to HSA is saturable. When more PS is added, the fraction of excess PS steadily increases, but γ does not change. Thus, N of PS molecules bound per molecule of HSA are ∼30 at pH 1.81, ∼25 at pH 3.56, and ∼1.7 at pH 7.40. These values will be examined further in the following experiments. As described above, all the basic AARs in HSA form positively charged R groups in pH solution of <3.65, whereas all acidic AARs will not dissociate. Thus, PS anions bind easily to the HSA surface until saturation is reached. In contrast, negative R groups of the acidic AARs rejecting the concentration of PS ions increases when pH is >4.25. Therefore, N of PS at pH 7.40 is much less than those in acidic media. The Langmuir and Temkin isothermal models [bib40] below were used to fit the experimental data. (6) 1 γ = 1 N + 1 K N C L and (7) γ = − N R T Δ Q ln ( C L ) + a , where C L is the equilibrium concentration of PS to be calculated by C L = (1 − f ) C L0 , K is the adsorption constant, and Δ Q the adsorption energy (J/mol) of a saturating concentration of PS. The term a is a regression constant, T the temperature in degrees Kelvin, and R the gas constant, 8.314 J mol −1 K −1 . The results are given in [fig4] . The binding of PS to HSA fitted both models when the number of PS molecules per HSA molecule was less than the maximal binding number. Therefore, the interaction of PS with HSA corresponds to chemical monolayer adsorption. From the intercepts and gradients of the regression lines in [fig4] A , both N and K of PS may be calculated ( [tbl1] ). The N values were consistent with those obtained from [fig3] . Δ Q of PS was calculated from the line gradients in [fig4] B , as shown in [tbl1] . The increase in K and Δ Q values with increase in pH shows that PS binds more stably in neutral solution. A possible reason is that a low PS binding number resulted in more binding sites on HSA. In addition, the binding of PS is exothermic because of the negative heat of adsorption. To understand the mechanism of HSA-PS binding and to assess the effect of environmental conditions, e.g., acidity, on its specificity and stability, detailed thermodynamic data are needed. ITC measurements provide information on thermodynamic quantities such as enthalpy and heat capacity changes during the molecular interaction directly from the heat produced by the reaction and have been used to study, for example, protein-ligand interactions [bib41] , DNA triplex formation [bib42] , and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) protease activity [bib43] . [fig5] (X-1) (X: A – D ) depicts a typical isothermal titration profile obtained by injecting PS into the ITC cell containing HSA. An exothermic heat pulse is detected after each injection; its magnitude progressively decreases until a plateau is reached corresponding to the heat of dilution of the peptide species in the buffer and indicating saturation. The heat evolved at each injection was corrected for the heat of dilution, which was determined separately by injecting the PS solution into the buffer and divided by the number of moles injected. The resulting values were plotted as a function of the PS/HSA molar ratio and fitted to a sigmoid curve by a nonlinear least squares method (curves X-2 in [fig5] ). Values for the equilibrium binding constant ( K b ), binding number ( N ), enthalpy change (Δ H ), and entropy change (Δ S ) of the PS-HSA reaction at various pHs were obtained from curves X-2 and calculated by the Gibbs free energy (Δ G ) equation: (8) Δ G = − R T ln K b = Δ H − T Δ S . The thermodynamic parameters derived from these curves are summarized in [tbl1] . Comparison with the photometric method (above) shows that the three measurements yield similar N values at three pHs. Δ H and Δ Q both become increasingly negative with increasing pH at 25°C, and Δ Q approaches the Δ H value at the same pH. Therefore, the Temkin isothermal model can be used to explain the binding mechanism. Because Δ H is much less than 60 kcal/mol [bib44] , the PS-HSA interaction is noncovalent: it involves H-bonds, ion pair attraction, hydrophobic interactions, and van der Waals forces. The K b values indicate that the complex becomes more stable with increasing acidity of solution. This can be explained by the tendency of Δ G to decrease with increasing pH ( [tbl1] and [fig6] ). Comparison of the Δ G , Δ H , and −T Δ S values suggests that the PS-HSA interaction is amphipathic and H-bonds and ion pair binding are both major contributors, i.e., the interaction of PS with HSA depends on a combination of ion pair attraction and H-bonds. Moreover, the heat released during the PS-HSA reaction increases with increasing pH, i.e., the ion pair attraction and H-bonds between PS and HSA are weakened in more acidic solution. This indicates that the number of H-bonds formed by PS is lower in more acidic solutions. As described above, the unfolding of HSA at pH 1.81 increases the distance among positively charged AARs. In contrast, Δ S becomes more negative with increasing pH. This indicates that PS binding destroyed the internal hydrophobic interactions in HSA at pH values above 3.56, replacing them with ion pair attraction and H-bonds. The chemical structure of PS shows that all the aryls are enclosed by hydrophilic groups (−SO 3 , −N=N−, and −OH), and PS has no lipophilic substituent, e.g., the halogen or alkyl group. Thus, hydrophobic interactions between PS and HSA were probably weaker than the internal ones in HSA. On the other hand, PS binding could have induced folding of HSA, decreasing the entropy. In addition, comparison of the thermodynamic parameters of the solution between 37°C and 25°C at pH 7.40 shows that −Δ H becomes more positive but Δ S becomes more negative ( [tbl1] and [fig6] ). This indicates that ion pair attraction and H-bonds were strengthened, but hydrophobic interaction was weakened at normal physiological pH. Electrostatic forces have an important role in the binding of ligands to proteins [bib16] , especially in acidic media. However, the relationship between the number of anionic groups on a ligand and the number of basic AARs on a protein has not yet been determined. From ϕ = N / N b , the effective binding rate ( ϕ ) of PS to HSA can be calculated, where N b is the total number of protonated basic AARs of HSA (Lys, His, and Arg). The dissociation constants of the R groups of Lys, His, and Arg indicate that they are all positively charged when the pH is <6. However, only the R groups of Lys and Arg residues are protonated in neutral medium. Thus, N b is 98 in acidic solution and 79 in neutral solution. In a more acidic solution, the peptide chain of a protein unfolds [bib16] , and there is little steric hindrance. If the binding of PS to HSA depended only on ion pair attraction, ϕ should approach 100%. From the N values obtained above, ϕ of PS was calculated to be 31% at pH 1.81, 27% at pH 3.56, and 2.2% at pH 7.40. Because each PS molecule has four sulfonate groups, it can bind to at most four basic AARs, so all the basic AARs in HSA could bind to PS at pH 1.81 and 3.56. However, most of the PS molecules bound to the peptide chain via three sulfonates, i.e., three ionic bonds, at pH 1.81, whereas most of them bound via four sulfonates at pH 3.56. HSA tends to fold at pH 7.40, so steric hindrance increases, leading to a marked decrease of ϕ even though PS may still bind via four ionic bonds. From the number of bonds formed by PS, the PS-HSA binding energy is low at pH 1.81, as confirmed by the Δ H values above. In conclusion, ion pair attraction could have induced PS to enter the cleft of HSA, i.e., electrostatic attraction plays a position-fixing role in the interaction of the small ligand with the protein. Once the PS molecules are positioned in HSA, other noncovalent bonds—H-bonds, hydrophobic interactions, and van der Waals forces—could act in combination. PS contains other potential binding groups in addition to the negatively charged −SO 3 groups, e.g., −N=N− and −OH, which could form H-bonds with polar side groups of AARs in the peptide chain, but there will be little hydrophobic interaction between PS and HSA, as described above. An illustration of PS bound to the peptide chain in acidic solution is shown in [fig7] . Thus, the combined action of noncovalent bonds will bind the small ligand firmly. As an example, the side group of K195 in the IIA domain and those of K446 and H464 in the IIIA domain would fix PS by ion pair bonds, and then the side groups of S193, Q198, and E465 would bind the PS by H-bonds. In a neutral solution, pH 7.40, the negative R groups of Asp and Glu, which are distributed throughout the peptide chain, will exclude the entry of PS anions even though the positive R s of Lys and Arg residues attract them. Possibly only two spatial positions can be occupied by the PS anion, i.e., between K212–R218 and R348–K351, K402–R410 and R428–K432, which have no negative R groups around them. This is consistent with the number of PS molecules bound at pH 7.40. The stability of a noncovalent complex is always affected by properties of the liquid environment in the body such as pH, ionic strength, and temperature [bib45 bib46] . The effect of electrolytes on the γ value of PS in the HSA-PS interaction is shown in [fig8] A . With increasing electrolyte concentration, γ decreases in various pH media and the change from curve 3 was most evident at pH 7.40. Its value in 1.0 mol/l electrolyte is 70% that in the absence of electrolyte at pH 1.81 and pH 3.56, but only 25% at pH 7.40. This is due to the Debye-Huckel screening, where the Debye length is inversely proportional to the square root of the ionic strength of solution [bib47] . Human blood normally contains ∼0.15 mol/l electrolyte. From all curves in A , γ is only slightly different in such a solution from γ in the absence of electrolyte. This implies that the ions in body fluids would not affect PS binding. When the ion concentration is increased to >0.5 mol/l, the marked adsorption of PS suggests that such conditions could be favorable for transmission of endogenous substances and drugs. At higher temperature, the protein cleft expands, increasing the distance between the adjacent peptide chains. Thus, the effective number of ligand binding sites is reduced, often causing desorption of ligand from the protein [bib48] . However, the interaction of PS with HSA seems contradictory. At pH 7.4, γ decreases from curve 3 in [fig8] B , especially when the temperature is >40°C. At 37°C, γ decreases to ∼1.7 from ∼1.9 at room temperature. In contrast, curves 1 and 2 indicate that γ increases slightly with warming. A PS-HSA complex with a high binding number would form aggregates so that the PS would be physically adsorbed on the particle surfaces. The slightness of the effects of ionic strength <0.2 mol/l and temperature <40°C indicates that PS binds strongly to HSA although the interaction is noncovalent. Thus, the penetration of PS-like organic structures into the blood could inhibit the endogenous transport of drugs. To investigate the stability of the product with the highest PS binding number at pH 1.81, a PS-HSA solution prepared at pH 1.81 was measured and then the pH was adjusted in situ step-by-step with 1 mol/l and 0.1 mol/l NaOH from pH 1.81 to 7.40. γ was calculated at each pH by Eq. [eq1] , and its variation is shown in [fig8] C . The γ values in two such solutions, containing saturating (solution 1) and semisaturating (solution 2) concentrations of PS, approach those in [fig3] B obtained from PS-HSA solutions prepared independently at pH 3.56 and 7.40. Moreover, γ decreases markedly when the pH exceeds the isoelectric point of HSA. This is attributed to the unfolding of HSA in acidic media and the protonation of basic AARs, which is less at pH values above 4.7. In addition, the PS-HSA complex formed at pH 1.81 can be destroyed by low pH, as indicated by the trend in γ , i.e., binding to HSA is reversible and has not caused permanent denaturation. The specific conformation of a protein with a particular function results from covalent and noncovalent interactions among its amino acid residues. When an organic compound such as a pollutant, drug, or toxin is added to a protein solution, the internal noncovalent interactions of the peptide chain may be altered and possibly destroyed, changing the original conformation. In particular, strong binding between a protein and an organic ligand may cause a permanent and irreversible change in the conformation and loss of the original function. CD spectrometry is often used to evaluate the secondary structure of a protein, i.e., the contents of β -pleated sheet, β -turn, α -helix, and random coil. The molar ellipticity CD curves of the PS-HSA solutions in various pH media are shown in [fig9] , and the analytical results are summarized in [tbl2] . The β -sheet content of HSA decreased to 0 at pH 1.81 and 3.56 with less than saturating concentrations of PS (15 μ mol/l), where ∼80% of all available binding sites in HSA were bound by PS. The disappearance of β -sheet resulted in a marked increase in β -turn content, for example, from 4.3% at pH 1.81 and 5.8% at pH 3.56 to 30.1% and 30.7%. Moreover, the helix content increased by ∼20%. Comparison between saturating and subsaturating concentrations of PS produced no obvious change in secondary structure contents though 4 times the molarity of PS was added. Thus, a small amount of PS leads to a marked change of protein conformation in acidic media. [fig7] C illustrates how the binding may affect changes from β -pleated sheet to helix and turn. On a single peptide chain (chain 1), PS could bridge the side groups ( R s) C A1 (rank A and line 1) and C G1 by ion pair attraction. Thus, both the A–C and E–G sector sheets would rotate inversely around C D1 to split the original H-bonds between chains 1 and 2, leading to formation of an H-bond between C=O (E1) and NH (C1). Thus, the pleated sheet is changed into a turn. If both R s were located on chains 2 and 3, such as C G2 and C M3 , respectively, ion pair attraction would draw both of them close to the two available −SO 3 groups of PS by inverse rotation. Because of the perturbation caused by PS, the original H-bonds between chains 2 and 3 would be destroyed and a new H-bond between −NH (I 3 ) and −OH of PS formed. Therefore, the β -sheet was changed into helix. In contrast, all the secondary conformational factors changed little at pH 7.40 even with saturating PS concentrations. This is presumably because there is too little binding of PS at pH 7.40 to affect the conformation of HSA markedly. As a deduction, the binding of PS to proteins or enzymes in acidic environments, e.g., stomach and skin secretions, might produce obvious toxicity. In normal blood, the tight binding of PS to HSA would inhibit the transmission of endogenous substances and drugs, though the secondary conformation of HSA would not be markedly altered. The characterization of the binding reaction and the effects of electrolyte and pH described above indicate that the interaction between PS and HSA is influenced by a range of experimental conditions such as ionic strength <0.2 mol/l, pH between 2 and 4, and temperature <40°C. Thus, it may be used for protein assay by LARVA [bib37] , which has more than 10 times the analytical sensitivity of ordinary spectrophotometry. If EDTA is added to sequester most metal ions, this binding reaction is very selective. Three standard series of HSA were prepared, and the regression equations are given in [tbl3] . The LOD of HSA, defined as 3 times the standard deviation of 10 replicated blanks, was also calculated and is given in [tbl3] : the less PS added, the higher the sensitivity obtained. However, too low a PS concentration could cause an obvious measurement error because of background instrument noise. The LODs of series 2 and 3 are the lowest, but series 2 gives the best linearity. Thus, 3.0 μ mol/l PS was added to determine the protein concentrations in samples such as food and blood. The corresponding LOD of protein is 0.2 mg/l. EDTA was used to sequester most of the metals that might occur in the samples. The results indicate that none of the following species affected the direct determination of 5.0 mg/l HSA (error less than ±5%) with PS: 100 mg/l lysine, glutamine, alanine; 100 mg/l K + , Cl − ; 5.0 mg/l Ca 2+ , P O 4 3 − , glucose; 2 mg/l Mg 2+ , S O 4 2 − , vitamin C; 1 mg/l Zn 2+ , Fe 2+ , Fe 3+ ; and 0.2 mg/l Cu 2+ . Therefore, the recommended method was selective and suitable for quantitative analysis of water-soluble proteins. Five samples—quail egg white, milk, human blood, chicken serum, and eel serum—were determined. Both quail egg white and milk may be diluted and then colored directly. The other samples were treated according to the following procedures: 5 ml blood extracted from human or animal veins was centrifuged at 3000 rpm for 10 min and 1.00 ml of the supernatant was diluted to 100 ml. After mixing, protein was assayed. The results are given in [tbl4] . They agreed with the values obtained by classical Coomassie brilliant blue colorimetry [bib49] . This indicates that the proposed method is accurate and reliable for practical analysis.
!~MM~! The absorption spectra of PS and protein solutions were recorded with a Model Lambda-25 spectrophotometer (Perkin-Elmer, Foster City, CA) equipped with a thermostatic cell holder linked to a Model TS-030 water-circulated thermostatic oven (Yiheng Sci. Technol., Shanghai, China). The spectrophotometer was computer-controlled using UV WinLab software (Version 2.85.04). The ITC experiments were carried out on a Model MSC-ITC system (MicroCal, Studio City, CA) with measurement software. A Model J-715 CD spectropolarimeter (Jasco Instruments, Tokyo, Japan) with secondary structure estimation-standard analysis measurement software (715 /No. B014460524, Jasco) was used to determine protein conformation. A Model DK-8D electrothermic multiporous constant temperature (Shanghai Yiheng Technol., Shanghai, China) was used in the temperature experiment. Solution pHs were measured with a Model pHS-25 acidity meter (Shanghai Precise Sci. Instrum., Shanghai, China). HSA (250 mg, purity 96%–99%, Sigma Reagents, St. Louis, MO) was dissolved in 250 ml deionized water as a stock solution (1.00 mg/ml HSA). Solutions (0.010 mg/ml HSA) were prepared daily by diluting the stock and were stored at 2°C–8°C. PS stock solution (0.750 mmol/l) was prepared by dissolving 76 mg of PS (purity 75%, Shanghai Chemical Reagents, Chin. Med. Group, Shanghai, China) in 100 ml deionized water. Solutions of 0.075 mmol/l PS were prepared daily by diluting the stock. A series of Britton-Robinson (B-R) buffers, pH 1.81, 2.43, 2.97, 3.56, 4.19, 4.97, 5.43, 5.71, 6.38, 6.77, and 7.40, were prepared to adjust the acidities of solutions. A 2.0 mol/l NaCl solution was prepared in deionized water to adjust the ionic strengths of solutions to investigate the effects of electrolyte on noncovalent binding. Both 0.01 mol/l EDTA and pH 3.6 acetic-acetate buffer were prepared and used only in protein assays. All studies were carried out in a 10.0 ml calibrated flask containing a known volume of HSA solution, 2.0 ml of B-R buffer (pH 1.81, 3.56, or 7.40), and a known volume of 0.750 mmol/l PS. The solution was diluted to 10.0 ml with deionized water and mixed thoroughly. After the reaction had proceeded for 5 min, the absorbances A λ 2 and A λ 1 of the HSA-PS solutions and A λ 2 0 and A λ 1 0 of the reagent blank (without HSA) were measured at 568 nm ( λ 2 ) and 495 nm ( λ 1 ) against water. The parameters A c , f , and γ of each solution were calculated. The Langmuir and Temkin isothermal models were applied to fit plots γ −1 vs. C L − 1 and γ vs. ln( C L ). Finally, N , K , and Δ Q were calculated. ITC experiments were carried out as follows. The PS solution (0.600 mmol/l in pH 1.81 and 3.56 B-R buffers or 0.300 mmol/l in pH 7.40 B-R buffer) was injected ∼40 times in 5 μ l increments at 3 min intervals into the isothermal cell containing HSA (1.6 μ mol/l in pH 1.81 and 3.56 B-R buffers or 8.0 μ mol/l in pH 7.40 B-R buffer). The cell temperature remained at 25°C or 37°C. Heats of dilution of PS, obtained separately by injecting into the buffer, were used to correct the data. The corrected heats were divided by the number of moles injected and analyzed using the Origin software (version 7.0) supplied by the manufacturer. The titration curve was fitted by a nonlinear least squares method and N , K b , Δ H , and Δ S were determined. Buffer (1 ml, pH 1.81, 3.56, or 7.40) was mixed with 0.030 mg/ml HSA in three flasks; 0, 0.015 or 0.060 mmol/l PS was added. The solutions were diluted to 10.0 ml with deionized water. Simultaneously, a reagent blank without PS was prepared. Before measurement, all the solutions were diluted from 1.00 to 3.00 ml with deionized water. Each sample was allowed to equilibrate for 15 min, then injected into a 0.1 cm light path cell, and the mean residue ellipticity (MRE) of HSA was measured between 200 and 250 nm. From the MRE curves, the relative contents of secondary structure forms of HSA— α -helix, β -pleated sheet, β -turn, and random coil—were calculated in all the solutions. Light-absorption ratio variation (LARVA) [bib37] was used to assay protein with very high sensitivity. A known volume of a sample containing <70 μ g of protein was added to a 10 ml flask along with 1 ml 10 mmol/l EDTA and 1 ml of pH 3.6 acetate buffer. After mixing, 3.0 μ mol/l PS was added and the solution was diluted to 10.0 ml with deionized water. After 5 min, the absorbances ( A 495 and A 568 ) of the solution were measured at 495 and 568 nm against water. Using the same method, a reagent blank without protein was prepared, and the absorbances ( A 495 0 and A 568 0 ) were measured. The absorbance ratio difference (Δ A r ) of the PS-HSA solution was calculated by the relationship (1) Δ A r = A 568 nm A 495 nm − A 568 nm 0 A 495 nm 0 . Δ A r is linearly related to the protein concentration ( C M0 ) as follows: (2) Δ A r = p C M 0 + q , where p and q are constants obtained by linear regression of plots of Δ A r vs. C M0 from the series of standard HSA solutions. The variable p as the sensitivity factor is inversely proportional to the initial concentration ( C L0 ) of ligand [bib37] : the less L added, the higher the sensitivity obtained. However, too low a PS concentration will cause an obvious measurement error because of background instrument noise. To optimize the addition, PS was added in three concentrations (1.5, 3.0, and 4.5 μ mol/l) to the series of standard HSA solutions and the Δ A r of each was calculated. By considering both the low limit of detection (LOD) and the linearity, an optimal PS concentration was selected.
