!~ABS~! Six genes encode proteins with acyl-CoA-binding domains in Arabidopsis thaliana. They are the small 10-kDa cytosolic acyl-CoA-binding protein (ACBP), membrane-associated ACBP1 and ACBP2, extracellularly-targeted ACBP3, and kelch-motif containing ACBP4 and ACBP5. Here, the interaction of ACBP4 with an A. thaliana ethylene-responsive element binding protein (AtEBP), identified in a yeast two-hybrid screen, was confirmed by co-immunoprecipitation. The subcellular localization of ACBP4 and AtEBP, was addressed using an ACBP4:DsRed red fluorescent protein fusion and a green fluorescent protein (GFP):AtEBP fusion. Transient expression of these autofluoresence-tagged proteins in agroinfiltrated tobacco leaves, followed by confocal laser scanning microscopy, indicated their co-localization predominantly at the cytosol which was confirmed by FRET analysis. Immuno-electron microscopy on Arabidopsis sections not only localized ACBP4 to the cytosol but also to the periphery of the nucleus upon closer examination, perhaps as a result of its interaction with AtEBP. Furthermore, the expression of ACBP4 and AtEBP in Northern blot analyses was induced by the ethylene precursor 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid, methyl jasmonate treatments, and Botrytis cinerea infection, suggesting that the interaction of ACBP4 and AtEBP may be related to AtEBP-mediated defence possibly via ethylene and/or jasmonate signalling.
!~RES~! The yeast YPB2 transformed with the bait GAL4(DB)-ACBP4 could not grow on [SD-leu-his] and was tested negative on X-Gal colony filter assays (data not shown), suggesting that the pAT188 bait alone could not activate the transcription of reporter genes HIS3 and lacZ and was deemed appropriate for two-hybrid screens. A GAL4(TA) tagged A. thaliana cDNA library was introduced into the yeast YPB2 harbouring plasmid pAT188. The number of independent transformants was determined to be 2×106 following transformation and plating of an aliquot of the yeast transformation mixture on [SD-leu-trp]. A total of 100 putative positives were selected on [SD-leu-trp-his] supplemented with 10 mM 3-AT medium. When these putative positives were further screened for β-galactosidase activity using the X-Gal colony filter assay, nine yeast clones that appeared blue, at varying intensities, were identified as putative clones encoding interactors. Putative library plasmids were retrieved and their nucleotide sequences were searched against the BLAST server http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/cgi-bin/BLAST. Only one clone was in-frame to GAL4(TA), encoding a full-length ethylene-responsive element binding factor (ERF) protein AtEBP (Arabidopsis genome locus: AT3G16770). An AP2/EREBP (ethylene-responsive element binding protein) domain is present in AtEBP at amino acids 76–143 ([bib30]et al., 1997). In another independent yeast two-hybrid screen using the Molecular Interaction Facility (University of Wisconsin–Madison), six putative positives were identified following selection on histidine drop-out and β-galactosidase assays. Subsequently, they were used to retransform yeast mating type strain PJ69-4A, and were validated in mating and selection assays using the ACBP4 bait, the empty bait vector, and unrelated baits. Five clones were tested positive and further identified by nucleotide sequence analysis. Results from analysis using the BLAST revealed that only one clone was in-frame and it encoded a full-length actin-depolymerizing factor 3 (ADF3, At5g59880) protein. However, this was not investigated further in this study because it did not bind ACBP4 in subsequent co-immunoprecipitation, possibly due to the absence of some as yet unidentified essential cofactor(s) for binding in an in vitro co-immunoprecipitation reaction. Results of X-Gal filter assays are shown in [fig1]. Positive protein–protein interaction results in activation of the reporter gene β-galactosidase in yeast cells, which turns yeast colonies blue in filter assays using X-Gal. Without interaction, the yeast colonies remain ‘colourless’. As shown in [fig1], the GAL4(DB)-ACBP4 fusion interacted with GAL4(TA)-AtEBP, as indicated by the blue colour arising from the production of significant levels of β-galactosidase. No interactions were observed in control yeast cells harbouring GAL4(DB)-ACBP4+GAL4(TA) ([fig1]) and GAL4(DB)+GAL(TA)-AtEBP ([fig1]). Therefore, from yeast two-hybrid analysis, AtEBP was identified as a putative protein that interacts with ACBP4. (A) Colony filter β-galactosidase assays of candidate proteins AtEBP from yeast two-hybrid screens. (a) YPB2/GAL4(DB)-ACBP4+GAL4(TA)-AtEBP; (b) YPB2/GAL4(DB)-ACBP4+GAL4(TA); (c) YPB2/GAL4(DB)+GAL(TA)-AtEBP. (B) Co-immunoprecipitation of ACBP4 and AtEBP using the anti-GAL4(TA) monoclonal antibody. Autoradiograph of a 12% SDS-PAGE (left panel) showing the in vitro transcribed and translated ADF3, AtEBP, and GAL4(TA)-ACBP4, respectively, as indicated. The right panel shows the co-immunoprecipitation of equimolar amounts of GAL4(TA)-ACBP4 and ADF3 or AtEBP using the anti-GAL4(TA) antibody. Arrows indicate the positions of these proteins. Proteins, generated from plasmid derivatives of pBluescriptII KS using in vitro transcription/translation, were analysed by 12% SDS-PAGE. An autoradiograph of the gel showed that the estimated molecular masses of the in vitro translation products of GAL4(TA)-ACBP4, AtEBP and ADF3, were 84 kDa, 28 kDa, and 16 kDa, respectively, according to their calculated molecular masses ([fig1]). Co-immunoprecipitation of in vitro transcription/translation products to the GAL4(TA)-ACBP4 fusion protein, immobilized to protein A/agarose beads, using monoclonal antibody against GAL4(TA), showed that the GAL4(TA)-ACBP4 fusion protein significantly binds AtEBP ([fig1]). However, no binding of GAL4(TA)-ACBP4 to ADF3 was observed ([fig1]), perhaps due to the lack of cofactors which must be present for their in vitro interaction. To verify the subcellular localization of ACBP4 and AtEBP in vivo, ACBP4 was tagged to the N-terminus of DsRed, and the fusion from the CaMV 35S promoter expressed while AtEBP was tagged to the C-terminus of GFP. Following agroinfiltration of tobacco leaves with both ACBP4:DsRed and GFP:AtEBP, observations were carried out by confocal microscopy using a green filter to investigate the fluorescence pattern of GFP and a red filter to visualize the fluorescence of DsRed ([fig2]). GFP:AtEBP was located mainly in the nucleus, with some signals at the cytosol and the plasma membrane ([fig2]). ACBP4:DsRed was localized predominantly to the cytosol, inclusive of signals detected in the cytosol surrounding the nucleus ([fig2]). Signals of both fusion proteins were common to the cytosol. Confocal images indicating co-localization of ACBP4:DsRed and GFP:AtEBP fusion proteins transiently-expressed in tobacco leaves. Representative tobacco leaf epidermal cells are shown by laser-scanning confocal microscopy following agroinfiltration of plasmid pAT282 or pAT225. (A) GFP:AtEBP expressed from pAT225 in a tobacco leaf. (B) ACBP4:DsRed expressed from pAT282 in a tobacco leaf. (C–F) FRET detection in tobacco leaf epidermal cells co-expressing GFP:AtEBP and ACBP4:DsRed; (C) differential interference contrast image of D-F; (D) green channel shows GFP:AtEBP; (E) red channel shows FRET signal of ACBP4:DsRed; (F) co-localization of two signals is indicated by a yellow colour in merged images of (D) and (E). Arrowheads indicate the position of nuclei. Bar=20 μm. In FRET analysis, in cells co-expressing GFP:AtEBP and ACBP4:DsRed, not only GFP:AtEBP green fluorescence ([fig2]) but also ACBP4:DsRed red fluorescence ([fig2]), which overlapped with the GFP signals ([fig2]), were detected, indicating that FRET occurred between GFP:AtEBP and ACBP4:DsRed. Results from Western blot analysis using total protein from 3-week-old Arabidopsis revealed that anti-ACBP4 antibodies cross-reacted with a band of apparent molecular mass of 73.1 kDa ([fig3], lane 3), as previously predicted for ACBP4 ([bib21]et al., 2004). Localization of ACBP4 in Arabidopsis leaves. (A) Western blot analysis using affinity-purified anti-peptide antibodies against ACBP4. Lanes 1 and 2: gel identically loaded as lanes 3 and 4, respectively, stained with Coomassie blue to show the amount of protein blotted in western blot analysis. Lanes 3 and 4: western blot analysis of total protein using anti-ACBP4 antibodies (lane 3) and preimmune serum (lane 4). Lane M, molecular marker in kDa. (B, C, D) Immuno-gold labelling of ACBP4 in an Arabidopsis leaf cell using transmission electron microscopy. Transverse sections were stained with affinity-purified ACBP4-specific antibodies. (B) Transverse sections of leaves stained with ACBP4-specific antibodies. (C) Magnification of the boxed area in (B). (D) Control labelling of a leaf cell using secondary antibodies alone. Arrowheads, gold particles. V, vacuole; C, cytosol; Ch, chloroplast; N, nucleus; Cw, cell wall; Bars in (B) represent 2 μm, and in (C, D), 0.2 μm. Immuno-electron microscopy was carried out using transverse sections of leaves of 2-week-old Arabidopsis germinated and grown in MS medium under a 16/8 h light/dark regime. Although immuno-gold labelling with the anti-ACBP4 antibodies was mostly evident in the cytosol, some signals were detected at the periphery of the nucleus, ([fig3]). In the control, when the primary antibody was replaced by blocking solution, no significant immuno-gold labelling was observed ([fig3]). The immunolocalization of signals at the periphery of the nucleus may have culminated from the interaction of ACBP4 with AtEBP. To address the coexpression of ACBP4 and its interactor, AtEBP, further, their spatial expression patterns were examined. Northern blot analyses were carried out using ACBP4 and AtEBP full-length cDNA probes, generated in PCR using gene-specific primers. Both ACBP4 and AtEBP accumulated in leaves and stems ([fig4], lanes L and S) of Arabidopsis young seedlings, with lower expression in the flowers and siliques ([fig4], lanes F and Si). ACBP4, but not AtEBP, showed higher expression in roots ([fig4], lane R). Taken together, ACBP4 and AtEBP appear to have some overlapping expression patterns in leaves and stems, which may represent the potential organs for their interaction in vivo. Expression patterns of ACBP4 and AtEBP in Arabidopsis on Northern blot analyses. Total RNAs were extracted from wild-type Arabidopsis leaves (L), stems (S), roots (R), flowers (F), and siliques (Si). A gel blot containing about 30 μg total RNA for each lane was hybridized with an ACBP4-specific cDNA probe. The membrane was stripped and reprobed with an AtEBP-specific full-length cDNA probe. Ethidium bromide staining of rRNAs shown at the bottom indicates the relative amounts of total RNA loaded in each lane. The blots were washed under conditions of high stringency. It has been reported that in young Arabidopsis seedlings, ethephon induces the expression of AtEBP after 12 h, indicating that AtEBP is involved in ethylene signalling ([bib5]). As ACBP4 was shown to interact with AtEBP in vitro and both displayed some similarity in spatial expression, it was investigated to find whether ACBP4 is regulated by ethylene and/or jasmonates. To this end, 2-week-old Arabidopsis seedlings were treated with 1 mM 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC, the direct precursor of ethylene) and 100 μM methyl jasmonate. AtEBP mRNA and ACBP4 mRNA were induced in seedlings at 4, 8, 12, and 24 h (for ACBP4) or 8, 12, and 24 h (for AtEBP) following treatment with ACC and MeJA ([fig5]). An ACC-inducible and MeJA-inducible gene encoding plant defensin PDF1.2 ([bib31]et al., 1998) was used as a positive control in these experiments. Induction of AtEBP (At3g16770) and ACBP4 (At3g05420) after ACC and MeJA treatments detected in Northern blot analysis was compared with information available from microarray data analysis on AtEBP expression (www.weigelworld.org/resources/microarray). The expression of both AtEBP and ACBP4 were not inducible in microarrays at 1 h and 3 h after ACC and MeJA treatments and no data were available for a period exceeding 4 h. Northern blot analyses of ACBP4 and AtEBP expression following 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid and methyl jasmonate treatments and B. cinerea infection. (A) Accumulation of ACBP4 and AtEBP transcripts in wild-type Arabidopsis plants grown in MS media under continuous light following treatment with 1 mM ACC and 100 μM MeJA. Thirty micrograms total RNA per lane were hybridized to the respective probes as indicated on the right of the figure. The ACC- and MeJA-inducible PDF1.2 transcript was used as a positive control. Ethidium bromide-stained rRNA is shown below the blots to indicate the relative amounts of total RNA loaded per lane; hpt, hours post-treatment. (B) Inducible expression of ACBP4 and AtEBP transcripts in wild-type Arabidopsis plants infected with B. cinerea. Thirty micrograms total RNA per lane was hybridized to the respective probes as indicated on the right of the figure. Ethidium bromide-stained rRNA is shown to indicate the relative amounts of total RNA loaded per lane; hpi, hours post-inoculation. The blots were washed under conditions of high stringency. In Arabidopsis, both ethylene and jasmonate have been reported to be essential for the induction of a functional defence response towards the necrotrophic fungal pathogen Botrytis cinerea ([bib34]et al., 2001; [bib11]et al., 2002). Expression of the ethylene downstream regulator ERF1 is up-regulated upon infection by B. cinerea ([bib3]et al., 2002). Since ACBP4 and AtEBP mRNAs accumulated in response to ethylene and jasmonate treatments, Arabidopsis plants were subsequently infected with B. cinerea and tested for ACBP4 and AtEBP expression. Both ACBP4 and AtEBP mRNAs accumulated in the infected plants at 48 h and 72 h post-inoculation, while the control plant remained uninduced at these corresponding time points ([fig5]). Our findings again suggest that both ACBP4 and AtEBP are probably associated with the ethylene- and jasmonate-mediated plant defence responses.
!~MM~! The two-hybrid library screens were performed in the Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain YPB2 [MATa ara3 his3 ade2 lys2 trp1 leu2, 112 canr gal4 gal80 LYS2::GAL1-HIS3, URA3::(GAL1UAS17mers)-lacZ] ([bib19]et al., 1998). Cotransformants were plated on synthetic dextrose agar plates lacking leucine, tryptophan, and histidine [SD-leu-trp-his] supplemented with 10 mM 3-AT ([bib19]et al., 1998). The bait plasmid pAT188 was prepared by inserting a 2 kb XhoI-NotI fragment encoding ACBP4 from pAT181 ([bib21]et al., 2004) into the SalI-NotI sites of pBI-880 (a variant of pPC62 as described by [bib6]; [bib19]et al., 1998). All constructs were confirmed by restriction digestion and nucleotide sequence analysis. S. cerevisiae strain YPB2 was transformed with bait plasmid pAT188 and transformants were plated on synthetic dextrose agar plates lacking leucine [SD-leu]. An aliquot of transformants was also tested on [SD-leu-his] medium supplemented with 10 mM 3-amino-1, 2, 4-triazole (3-AT) because an absence of growth on this medium would confirm that the DB-‘bait’ fusion protein is unable to initiate transcription of HIS3. Subsequently, the bait-carrying strain was tested negative for β-galactosidase activity using the X-Gal (5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-D-galactopyranoside) colony filter assay. This further showed that the bait was not able to activate transcription of the lacZ reporter gene. The prey vector pBI-771, a variant of pPC86 ([bib6]; [bib19]et al., 1998), was introduced into this strain and its inability to grow on [SD-leu-trp-his] medium supplemented with 10 mM 3-AT and its lack of β-galactosidase activity were confirmed before the bait was further used in cDNA library screening. To ensure sufficient coverage in the identification of potential proteins interacting with ACBP4, yeast two-hybrid screenings were also performed at the Molecular Interaction Facility, University of Wisconsin–Madison using yeast strains and vectors as previously described by [bib17]et al. (1996). For bait preparation, ACBP4 (amino acids 1–669) was cloned in-frame with the GAL4 DNA-binding domain of bait vector pBUTE (a kanamycin-resistant version of GAL4 bait vector pGBDUC1). The resulting vector was subject to DNA sequence analysis to confirm the presence of an in-frame fusion, before use in transformation of S. cerevisiae mating type strain PJ69-4A, followed by testing for autoactivation of the β-galactosidase reporter gene. Library screenings were conducted using the Molecular Interaction Facility Arabidopsis library collection representing cDNAs from flowering Arabidopsis plants. Approximately 50 million clones were screened. Of these, positive yeast clones were tested for interaction by selection on histidine drop-out and β-galactosidase assays. Plasmids were rescued and analysed by restriction endonuclease analysis. Positive prey plasmids were retransformed into the mating type of PJ69-4A and validated in mating and selection assays with the ACBP4 bait, the empty bait vector, and unrelated control baits. Positive clones were subsequently identified by nucleotide sequence analysis using the GAL(TA)-specific forward primer BC304 (5′-CTATTCGATGATGAAGATACC-3′) and the ADH1-terminator reverse primer, JN069 (5′-TTGATTGGAGACTTGACC-3′) ([bib19]et al., 1998). To corroborate the interaction from yeast two-hybrid analysis, co-immunoprecipitation studies were performed according to [bib25]et al. (2003). All constructs used in these interaction assays were derivatives of vector pBluescriptII KS(–) (pKS). The HindIII-SacI fragment from pBI-771 carrying GAL4(TA) (amino acids 768–881) was cloned into corresponding restriction sites on pKS. The GAL4(TA)-ACBP4 fusion construct was prepared by inserting ACBP4 cDNA from pAT181, on a 2 kb EcoRI-BamHI fragment, into the EcoRI-BglII sites of pKS-TA with the 5′ of TA-ACBP4 adjacent to the T3 promoter. Two putative interactors, ADF3 (identified at the Molecular Interaction Facility, University of Wisconsin–Madison) and AtEBP (from a yeast two-hybrid screen in our laboratory) were selected for further studies. Their full-length cDNAs were generated by the Reverse-Transcriptase-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) using the Superscript™ First-strand synthesis system (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA). The cDNA fragments were subsequently cloned into pGEM-T Easy (Promega, Madison, WI, USA). Potential ‘ATG’ start codons in the multiple cloning sites of pGEM-T Easy vector upstream of the ADF3 or AtEBP cDNA were eliminated by restriction endonuclease digestion followed by filling-in with Klenow and re-ligation. The cDNAs of both ADF3 and AtEBP were verified by nucleotide sequence analysis. Subsequently, GAL4(TA)-ACBP4 and each candidate were in vitro transcribed and translated by a TNT quick coupled wheat germ transcription-translation system (Promega, Madison, WI, USA) in the presence of [35S]methionine (ICN Pharmaceuticals Inc., Costa Mesa, CA, USA), according to the manufacturer's instructions. The proteins were analysed by 12% sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS–PAGE) and autoradiography. Co-immunoprecipitation with monoclonal anti-GAL4(TA) antibody (Clontech, USA) was performed following [bib25]et al. (2003). All binary vectors used in this study were derivatives of plasmids pGDG and pGDR which contain genes encoding the autofluorescent proteins GFP and DsRed, respectively ([bib15]et al., 2002). The 2 kb XhoI-BamHI fragment encoding the complete ACBP4 peptide was generated by PCR using primers ML350 and ML682 with pAT181 as template, and cloned into pGEM-T Easy vector to generate plasmid pAT280. The 2 kb XhoI-BamHI ACBP4 fragment derived from plasmid pAT280 was cloned into the XhoI and BamHI sites of pGD-DsRed to obtain pAT282 in which ACBP4 is fused to 5′ of DsRed. The plasmid pAT225 in which AtEBP is fused to 3′ of GFP has been previously described ([bib24]). The cloning junctions in all constructs were confirmed by nucleotide sequence analysis. Tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum var. Xanthi) plants were grown in a greenhouse at 22 °C for 6 weeks. Two days before agroinfiltration, they were maintained in a growth chamber at 22 °C under 16/8 h light/dark as specified by [bib15]et al. (2002). Derivatives of Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA4404 containing autofluorescent protein fusion constructs were cultured on LB solid medium supplemented with kanamycin (50 μg ml−1) and streptomycin (25 μg ml−1) at 28 °C for 2 d. For agroinfiltration, Agrobacterium was grown at 28 °C overnight, in LB medium supplemented with kanamycin (50 μg ml−1) and streptomycin (25 μg ml−1). Preparation of Agrobacterium suspension and agroinfiltration of tobacco leaves in planta were carried out following the procedures of [bib41]et al. (2000). Tobacco leaf epidermal cells from agroinfiltration were examined under a Zeiss LSM 510 inverted confocal laser-scanning microscope (Zeiss, Jena, Germany) following the settings described by [bib15]et al. (2002) with minor modifications. Single optical sections were scanned as resulting images for each transient expression. For each plasmid construct, 10–15 cells were imaged with similar results. GFP fluorescence was excited at 488 nm, filtered through a primary dichroic (UV/488/543), a secondary dichroic of 545 nm, and subsequently through BP505–530 nm emission filters to the photomultiplier tube (PMT) detector. DsRed fluorescence was excited at 543 nm, the emission was passed through similar primary and secondary dichroic mirrors and finally through a BP560–615 nm emission filter to the PMT detector. Fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) pairs GFP/DsRed were analysed using a confocal laser-scanning microscope (Zeiss LSM510 META). FRET measurements of DsRed emission with zero contribution from GFP, was accomplished as described by [bib13]et al. (2003) using the following settings: excitation at 488 nm and emission filters, BP 505–530 nm for GFP and BP 600–637 nm for DsRed. Protein extracts were prepared by homogenizing Arabidopsis protein from 3-week-old wild-type (Col-0) Arabidopsis rosettes according to [bib9]et al. (1999). Total proteins were separated on SDS–PAGE and transferred onto Hybond-C membranes (Amersham). The blots were blocked in TTBS (TBS plus 0.05% Tween 20) containing 5% non-fat milk for 2 h and incubated for an additional 2 h with anti-ACBP4 primary antibodies. The blots were washed three times with TTBS and then incubated with secondary antibody for 1 h. Either the Amplified Alkaline Phosphatase Goat Anti-rabbit Immuno-blot Assay Kit (BioRad) or the ECL Western Blotting Detection Kit (Amersham) was used following the manufacturer's instructions to detect cross-reacting bands. ACBP4-specific antibodies were generated by rabbit immunization using a synthetic peptide RMQTLQLRQELGEAE (corresponding to amino acids 566 to 580 of ACBP4). Arabidopsis leaves were fixed in a solution of 4% (v/v) paraformaldehyde and 0.5% (v/v) glutaradehyde in 0.1 M phosphate buffer (pH 7.2) for 20 min under vacuum and then a further 3 h at room temperature. The specimens were then dehydrated in a graded ethanol series, infiltrated in stepwise increments of LR white resin (London Resin, Theale, Berkshire, UK) and polymerized at 45 °C for 24 h. Materials for immuno-gold labelling were prepared according to the procedure of [bib35] with the modification as described. Specimens (90 nm) were sectioned using a Leica Reichert Ultracut S microtome and mounted on formvar-coated slotted grids. Grids were incubated in a blocking solution of TTBS containing 1% (w/v) fish skin gelatin and 1% (w/v) BSA for 30 min. Anti-ACBP4 antibodies diluted 1:50 in blocking solution were added and incubated at room temperature for 2 h. The grids were then rinsed three times, each for 5 min, in TTBS and then incubated with 10 nm gold-conjugated goat anti-rabbit IgG secondary antibody (Sigma), diluted 1:20 with blocking solution. Grids were rinsed three times, each for 5 min in TTBS, following by three 5-min rinses in distilled water. After being stained in 2% (w/v) uranyl acetate for 6 min followed by 2% (w/v) lead citrate for 6 min, the sections were visualized and photographed using Philips EM208s electron microscope operating at 80 kV. Controls were performed excluding the primary antibody. Tobacco (N. tabacum var. Xanthi) plants were grown in a greenhouse at 22 °C for 6 weeks. Two days before agroinfiltration, they were maintained in a growth chamber at 22 °C under 16/8 h dark/light as specified by [bib15]et al. (2002). Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia (Col-0) was grown under cycles of 8 h dark at 21 °C and 16 h light at 23 °C. For Arabidopsis treatments in northern blot experiments, seedlings were grown on Murashige and Skoog (1962) medium with 2% sucrose in continuous light for 2–3 weeks and then treated with 1 mM 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC, Sigma-Aldrich, St Louis), 100 μM methyl jasmonate (MeJA, Sigma-Aldrich, St Louis) or water (control). Plant samples were collected at 0, 4, 8, 12, and 24 h post-treatment. Three-week-old wild-type Arabidopsis plants were inoculated with Botrytis cinerea by spraying with a spore suspension (2×105 spores ml−1) in a solution containing 1% glucose or with water containing 1% glucose as a control. After inoculation, the plants were placed in a growth chamber with high humidity (100%) at 22 °C under a 16/8 h light/dark photoperiod as described by [bib37]et al. (2004). Plant samples were collected at 0, 24, 48, and 72 h post-inoculation. Total RNA was isolated from plant tissues following the procedure of [bib26]et al. (1988). Northern blot analysis was performed as described previously ([bib37]et al., 2004). Briefly, 30 μg of total RNA were separated on a 1.5% agarose gel containing 6% formaldehyde and transferred to Hybond N membranes (Amersham). To generate probes for use in Northern blot analyses, specific primers were designed for PCR-amplification: ACBP4 (ML350, 5′-CCTCGAGAATGGCTATGCCTAGGGC-3′ and ML682, 5′-GGATCCACAAGGCGAATCATCATCT-3′), AtEBP (ML826, 5′-ACAGAGAAAATGTGTGGCGG-3′ and ML827, 5′-CAAGCATCCACATAT CCACC-3′) and PDF1.2 (ML741, 5′-TAAGTTTGCTTCCATCATCACCC-3′ and ML742, 5′-TTAACATGGGACGTAACAGATACA-3′). Templates used in PCR were plasmid pAT282 (consisting of the ACBP4 cDNA) and the first-strand wild-type pool of cDNAs (for AtEBP and PDF1.2). The fragments were labelled with the PCR Digoxigenin Probe Synthesis Kit according to the manufacturer's instructions (Roche, Germany). Hybridization and detection were performed according to the standard procedures as advised by the manufacturer (Roche). The blots were washed under conditions of high stringency (2× SSC, 0.1% SDS for 2×15 min at room temperature; 0.5× SSC, 0.1% for 2×15 min at 68 °C; 0.1× SSC, 0.1% SDS for 2×15 min at 68 °C).
