!~ABS~! Enzyme screens with Strep-tagged recombinant proteins and expression studies with the respective green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusions have been employed to examine the functional activities and subcellular localization of members of the Arabidopsis glutathione transferase (GST) superfamily. Fifty-one of 54 GST family members were transcribed and 41 found to express as functional glutathione-dependent enzymes in Escherichia coli. Functional redundancy was observed and in particular three theta (T) class GSTs showed conserved activities as hydroperoxide-reducing glutathione peroxidases (GPOXs). When expressed in tobacco as GFP fusions, all three GSTTs localized to the peroxisome, where their GPOX activity could prevent membrane damage arising from fatty acid oxidation. Through alternative splicing, two of these GSTTs form fusions with Myb transcription factor-like domains. Examination of one of these variants showed discrete localization within the nucleus, possibly serving a role in reducing nucleic acid hydroperoxides or in signalling. Based on this unexpected differential sub-cellular localization, 15 other GST family members were expressed as GFP fusions in tobacco. Most accumulated in the cytosol, but GSTU12 localized to the nucleus, a family member resembling a bacterial tetrachlorohydroquinone dehalogenase selectively associated with the plasma membrane, and a lambda GSTL2 was partially directed to the peroxisome after removal of a putative chloroplast transit peptide. Based on the results obtained with the GSTTs, it was concluded that these proteins can exert identical protective functions in differing subcellular compartments.
!~RES~! As a first step in studying the whole family of Arabidopsis GSTs, the coding sequence for each GST was amplified, with PCR products indicating that the respective gene was indeed transcribed. These clones were then expressed in E. coli and purified recombinant proteins assayed to survey for typical GST activities. The cloning and characterization of the GSTZs ([bib16]), DHARs, and GSTLs from Arabidopsis ([bib15]et al., 2002a) has been reported previously. Their further analysis was restricted to their amplification and cloning into the new expression vectors to study their subsequent sub-cellular localization in planta. GSTZ1, GSTL1, GSTL2, GSTL3, and DHARs 1–3 were successfully amplified, all without any N-terminal targeting peptides. In the case of DHAR4 and GSTZ2, no amplification products were obtained and, since there is no evidence of transcripts for these genes, it was concluded that they were probably pseudogenes. cDNAs encoding all 28 GSTUs and 12 of the GSTFs were amplified from Arabidopsis. Of the products obtained, GSTF8 was cloned as the splice variant without a plastidic targeting peptide, since this has been shown to be the major form in vivo ([bib46]et al., 2007). GSTF13 could not be amplified and no attempt was made to clone GSTF1 ([bib4]et al., 1993), which is not encoded within the sequenced Arabidopsis genome ([bib48]et al., 2002). The polypeptide sequences of the cloned GSTs matched those predicted from the TAIR 8 genome annotation (www.arabidopsis.org, April 2008 release), with two exceptions. GSTU17 had a frame-shift, but was identical to EMBL cDNA sequence AF288191, while GSTU21 had a 6 bp downstream shift in the start of the second exon. Thus, gstf13 was the only possible pseudogene of those tested. For the theta GSTs, three genes lie adjacent to one another on chromosome 5 (GSTT1=At5g51210; GSTT2=At5g41240; GSTT3=At5g41220). GSTT2 and GSTT3 are unusual in being annotated as GSTs with a C-terminal Myb-like DNA-binding protein fusion (TAIR release 8). An examination of the C-terminal sequences of the three previously identified Arabidopsis GSTTs ([bib48]et al., 2002) identified C-terminal SKM or SKI motifs, which would be anticipated to target these proteins to the peroxisome ([bib34]). However, with the GSTT2 and GSTT3 genes the C-terminal Myb-like extensions masked the putative peroxisome targeting signal. PCR-based cloning successfully amplified the short forms of all three genes, with GSTT3 amplified by mis-priming with GSTT2 primers, which introduced an additional methionine at the N-terminus but did not alter the C-terminus. The resulting amplification products encoded the 28 kDa proteins GSTT1, GSTT2, and GSTT3, respectively (for sequences, see Supplementary data available at JXB online). A long splice variant of GSTT3 could also be amplified, encoding the 68 kDa GST–Myb fusion GSTT3L. Although not isolated, splice variants of GSTT2 encoding the GST–Myb fusion GSTT2L have also been reported in the DNA databases. In total, 51 Arabidopsis GSTs were found to be transcribed, with the respective coding sequences recovered by PCR amplification. A custom vector system was developed to provide inducible high level expression of GSTs in recombinant E. coli, using an N-terminal Strep-tag II ([bib39]). This pET-STRP3 vector was engineered to minimize restriction enzyme incompatibility by utilizing flanking 6 bp cutters for routine use, with additional flanking 8 bp rare cutters introduced for problem sequences ([fig1]). Using this vector, all cloned GSTs were expressed in E. coli. Focusing on the phi, tau, and theta class enzymes, a total of 41 GSTs could be purified as soluble proteins using Strep-Tactin affinity chromatography (Figs S1 and S2 in Supplementary data available at JXB online). Only GSTF11 and GSTF12 were undetectable in the soluble fraction. In all cases, MS analysis of purified GSTs showed they had undergone cleavage of the N-terminal methionine, with the revealed alanine residue of the Strep-tag oligopeptide (ASWSHPQFEK) undergoing partial N-acetylation (Table S2), an unusual post-translational modification in E. coli ([bib9]et al., 2002). Several GSTs were found to co-purify protein contaminants (Figs S1, S2A in Supplementary data available at JXB online), which were identified by peptide mass fingerprinting. Notably, GSTU12, GSTT1, and GSTT2 were found to co-purify ribosomal proteins, and GSTF5 co-purified the chaperone GroEL. A number of preparations contained a 70 kDa polypeptide identified as the E1 subunit of pyruvate dehydrogenase, which was therefore presumed to be a non-specific contaminant. For the theta class GSTs, ethidium bromide counterstaining of SDS–PAGE gels showed that GSTT1, GSTT2, and GSTT3L contained nucleic acids, while GSTT3 showed only minor contamination (Fig. S2B). To test for functionality, recombinant phi, tau, and theta class GSTs were assayed for activity toward typical GST substrates. GSH-conjugating activity was assessed using the model xenobiotic substrate CDNB as well as BITC, the latter being a potential natural GST substrate in cruciferous plants derived from the degradation of glucosinolates ([bib23]). GSH-dependent peroxidase (GPOX) activity was routinely determined with cumene hydroperoxide ([bib19]). To examine the linkage between enzyme activity and relatedness, the results of these assays are represented with the GSTs clustered on the basis of their polypeptide sequence similarities ([fig2]). Several of the 41 GSTFs and GSTUs could not be assayed. GSTF11, GSTF12, and GSTF13 could not be cloned, or only expressed as insoluble proteins, while GSTF4, GSTF10, and GSTU15 were only obtained in very low yields. Of the remaining 35 recombinant proteins, 32 showed GSH-dependent enzyme activity, with only GSTF5, GSTF14, and GSTU11 being inactive toward the three substrates tested. Closely related GSTs showed a similar spectrum of enzyme activities, although absolute values for specific activities between enzymes varied. The conjugation of CDNB was the most commonly observed enzyme activity, though it varied over three orders of magnitude within the superfamily ([fig2]). BITC was a more discriminating GST substrate, being acted on by most tau class enzymes but rarely by the GSTFs. The majority of the GSTs also had some GPOX activity, with GSTU25 having particularly high activity. When the three GSTTs were assayed, these enzymes were shown to be highly active as GPOXs. To explore these activities in greater detail, two fatty acid hydroperoxides were prepared and found to be excellent GPOX substrates. This was in contrast to GSTU25 which, although showing high GPOX activity towards cumene hydroperoxide, showed little activity toward the fatty acid hydroperoxides that are likely substrates of GPOXs in planta ([bib4]et al., 1993). Phylogenetic tree and enzyme activities of bacterially expressed recombinant Arabidopsis phi (F) and tau (U) class GSTs assayed with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC), and cumene hydroperoxide (cumene-OOH). Also shown are theta (T) class GSTs (with GSTU25 for comparison), assayed for GPOX activity with the additional substrates (13S,9Z,11E)-13-hydroperoxy-9,11-octadecadienoic acid (18:2-OOH) and (13S,9Z,11E,15Z)-13-hydroperoxy-9,11,15-octadecatrienoic acid (18:3-OOH). Each GST name is suffixed with a key describing the associated analysis: C, successfully cloned; A, purified recombinant protein assayed; P, recombinant protein purified but not assayed; I, recombinant protein totally insoluble; Y, recombinant protein not available in sufficient yield/purity for assay; S, subcellular localization studied; a dash=analysis not performed. ND, No activity detected; NA, not assayed. † GST concentration overestimated due to co-purifying chromophores, so activity is underestimated. ‡ Variation in the replicates from the mean values quoted was <10% in all cases. Novel binary vectors were constructed to complement the bacterial expression vector, allowing Agrobacterium-mediated constitutive expression of Strep-tagged proteins in plants ([fig1]). BIN-STRP3 allowed plant-based expression of the same tagged protein as given by pET-STRP3 in bacteria, and BIN-STRP3–GFP provided an additional N-terminal GFP tag for visualization studies while retaining the Strep-tag for easy gel-based detection and/or purification if required. For example, GSTs could be recovered after transient expression in N. benthamiana and shown to be intact ([fig1]) and fluorescent, giving confidence that in vivo fluorescence data was not compromised by proteolytic cleavage of the GFP–GST fusion. Both vectors facilitated sub-cloning from the corresponding pET-STRP3 expression vector by incorporating compatible rare-cutting restriction sites. Having established a tractable expression system which allowed for both the functional expression of GSTs in E. coli and the definition of their sub-cellular localization in planta it was then of interest to determine whether the information derived from these two experimental systems could provide insight into the roles of GST family members. Examining the functional activities of GSTs and the potential for differential sub-cellular localization, it was apparent that the GSTTs represented a class of proteins which had conserved enzyme activities and the potential for targeting to different subcellular organelles. Thus, GSTs T1, T2, and T3 contained C-terminal domains corresponding to likely peroxisomal targeting motifs (C-terminal SKI, SKM, and SKM motifs, respectively), whereas GSTT2L and GSTT3L contained polypeptide extensions resembling Myb transcription factors which were more likely to direct the fusion proteins to the nucleus. To investigate their sub-cellular localization, GFP fusions of GSTT1, GSTT2, GSTT3 (short form), and GSTT3L (transcription factor fusion) were transiently expressed in Nicotiana benthamiana, and their localization then monitored by laser scanning confocal microscopy. GFP–GSTT1 ([fig3]), GFP–GSTT2 ([fig3]), and GFP–GSTT3 ([fig3]) were each confined to small organelles which, on the basis of their mobility, number, and size, together with the putative C-terminal targeting sequence of these GSTs, were assumed to be peroxisomes. This was confirmed (Fig. S3 in Supplementary data available at JXB online) by co-localization with the peroxisomal marker px-rk ([bib32]et al., 2007). By contrast, GFP–GSTT3L localized solely to the nucleus ([fig3], Fig. S4), giving a punctate expression pattern and showing exclusion from the nucleolus. Laser scanning confocal micrographs showing intracellular localization of N-terminally GFP-tagged GSTs transiently expressed in N. benthamiana (green channel), with counterstaining with propidium iodide (magenta channel). GSTs shown are GSTT1 (A), GSTT2 (B), GSTT3 (C), and GSTT3L (D). Scale bars represent 100 μM. In addition to the theta class enzymes, a range of phi (F2, F6, F8, F9, and F12) and tau (U2, U7, U9, U11, U12, U19, and U28) GSTs were also tested for sub-cellular localization using GFP tagging. In each case, these GSTs lacked characterized C-terminal targeting motifs, and the N-terminal transit peptide of GSTF8 was removed prior to testing. GFP–GST fusions of all the GSTFs and GSTs U2, U7, U9, U11, U19, and U28 all localized to the cytosol. In most cases GFP fusions were also found at low levels in the nucleus, presumably due to passive diffusion, as illustrated by GFP–GSTF2 and GFP–GSTU19 ([fig4]), with both of these GSTs being described as abundantly expressed proteins in proteomic studies ([bib35]et al., 2004; [bib40]et al., 2004). GFP fusions of GSTs U7, U9, U17, and U28 were practically absent from the nuclei ([fig4]). By contrast, GFP–GSTU12 localized entirely to the nucleus ([fig4]), confirmed by counterstaining with propidium iodide. As compared with related GSTs, examination of the GSTU12 polypeptide sequence revealed an N-terminal extension of 25 amino acid residues containing a putative nuclear localization signal (KKRKK), although it is beyond the scope of this work to test whether this signal is necessary and sufficient for nuclear import. Sub-cellular localization studies were then extended to other GSTs containing unusual sequence motifs. The lambda protein GSTL2 (without its N-terminal signal peptide) was selected since it has a potential peroxisomal targeting sequence (ARL) at its C-terminus. GFP–GSTL2 was found to localize to both the cytosol and peroxisomes ([fig4]), confirming the presence of a peroxisomal targeting signal. The unusual GST superfamily member TCHQD was also studied. GFP–TCHQD localized to the plasma membrane ([fig4]), co-localizing (Fig. S3) with the diagnostic marker pm-rk ([bib32]et al., 2007). [tbl1] summarizes the distribution of non-cytosolic Arabidopsis GSTs. Summary of GSTs found to accumulate outside the cytosol, with proposed targeting signal Data are based on N-terminal GFP fusions, except where indicated. Previously identified targeting peptides, giving an assumed chloroplastic location ([bib15]et al., 2002a). Laser scanning confocal micrographs showing intracellular localization of N-terminally GFP-tagged GSTs transiently expressed in N. benthamiana (green channel), with some panels counterstained with propidium iodide (magenta channel). GSTs shown are GSTF2 (A), GSTU19 (B), GSTU28 (C; nuclei and cell walls counterstained), GSTU12 (D; cell walls counterstained); GSTL2 (E), and TCHQD (F). N, nucleus. Scale bars represent 100 μM.
!~MM~! The expression vectors pET-STRP3 and BIN-STRP3 were synthesized as described ([bib18]et al., 2008; Supplementary data available at JXB online). For plant expression of N-terminal GFP fusions, the vector BIN-STRP3 was modified such that a GFP tag was introduced between the Strep-tag and the cloned protein. This construct was prepared by amplifying GFP from a plasmid containing smGFP (EMBL accession U70495) ([bib11]) using the oligonucleotides GCGCGCCGATCGTGAGTAAAGGAGAAGAAC and GCGCGCCCTGCAGGATCCTTAATTAATTTGTATAGTTCATCCATGC. The PCR product was digested using PvuI and SbfI and ligated into BIN-STRP3 digested with PacI and SbfI to give BIN-STRP3–GFP. Vectors (for sequences, see Supplementary data available at JXB online) are available upon request. Most GST sequences were PCR-amplified from cDNA prepared from a combination of Arabidopsis plants and root cultures ([bib15]et al., 2002a), using KOD polymerase (Novagen, Nottingham, UK) and the primers detailed in Table S1 in Supplementary data available at JXB online. To amplify GSTF12, mature Arabidopsis plants were placed under high light conditions (25 °C, 200 μE m−2) for 48 h prior to RNA extraction and cDNA synthesis. Amplified GST sequences were digested with restriction sites engineered into the primers and cloned into similarly digested pET-STRP3. Sequences were sub-cloned from pET-vectors to BIN-vectors typically using PacI and BstXI restriction sites ([fig1]). Strep-tag vector design and BIN-STRP3–GFP-mediated expression in plants. (A) Overview of vector design, showing promoters, restriction enzyme sites useful for cloning, and left and right borders (LB, RB) of T-DNA region for the bacterial (pET-STRP3) and plant (BIN-STRP3, BIN-STRP3–GFP) expression vectors. (B) Coomassie Brilliant Blue-stained SDS–PAGE gel showing affinity purification of GFP–GST fusion proteins from N. benthamiana leaves infiltrated with BIN-STRP3–GFP constructs. Purifications are shown for the GST fusions as labelled and for a negative control. Lanes for each purification: C, crude protein extract (equivalent to 1 mg FW tissue); U, unbound fraction (equivalent to 1 mg FW tissue); P, purified fraction (equivalent to 100 mg FW tissue). Molecular weight markers (M) are shown with masses (in kDa) as shown. The identities of purified proteins were confirmed by peptide mass fingerprinting. The vertical bar marks the removal of superfluous gel lanes. The pET-STRP3 constructs were transformed into E. coli strain Tuner(DE3) (Novagen) containing the pRARE plasmid from strain Rosetta (Novagen). Cultures were grown in LB broth containing appropriate antibiotics and 0.1 mM IPTG for 16–24 h at 30 °C with shaking at 200 r.p.m. in the dark. Cells were harvested by centrifugation and re-suspended in 5% of the original culture volume in cold (4 °C) HEPES-buffered saline (HBS = 20 mM HEPES–NaOH, 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, pH 7.5). After adding DTT (1 mM) and avidin (8 μg ml−1) to remove endogenous biotin and biotinylated proteins, the cells were sonicated and centrifuged, and the lysate loaded (1 ml min−1) onto a 1 ml Strep-Tactin macroprep column (Stratech Scientific Ltd, Soham, UK) pre-equilibrated at 22 °C with HBS. After washing with HBS, recombinant protein was eluted with HBS containing 2.5 mM desthiobiotin and the column regenerated with HBS (10 ml) containing 1 mM 2-(4′-hydroxy-benzeneazo)-benzoic acid. Recombinant protein eluting in a single 1 ml fraction was flash-frozen in 10% v/v glycerol. GST activity was determined with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and benzylisothiocyanate (BITC) as substrates ([bib13]et al., 1998). Glutathione peroxidase (GPOX) activity was determined with cumene hydroperoxide and fatty acid hydroperoxides prepared as described previously ([bib19]). Assays with fatty acid hydroperoxides used these substrates at a final concentration of 0.2 mM in the presence of 0.1% (v/v) Triton X-100. GST coding sequences sub-cloned into binary vectors were transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101:pMP90 ([bib27]). Cultures were mixed 1:1 with similarly prepared cultures containing the construct 35S:p19, to provide co-expression of the tomato bushy stunt virus p19 protein which suppressed gene silencing ([bib47]et al., 2003). Cultures were infiltrated into the lower surface of N. benthamiana leaves using a syringe ([bib51]et al., 2005). Transformed leaf tissue was harvested 2–7 d later and used immediately for imaging, or was stored at –80 °C until required for protein purification. For co-localization studies, similar A. tumefaciens cultures containing the constructs px-rk or pm-rk for labelling of peroxisomes and plasma membrane, respectively ([bib32]et al., 2007), obtained from NASC ([bib36]et al., 2000), were co-infiltrated. Both constructs expressed the red fluorescent protein mCherry, with either a C-terminal SKL motif added for peroxisomal targeting (px-rk) or as a fusion with the plasma membrane aquaporin AtPIP2a (pm-rk) for plasma membrane targeting. After 2–3 d, the transformed leaves were analysed by laser scanning confocal microscopy using a Zeiss LSM 510 Meta instrument with a plan Neofluar ×40/NA 1.3 oil immersion lens. Where required, tissue samples were counterstained for 5–20 min using 1 mg ml−1 propidium iodide and then washed with water before visualization. GFP fusion fluorescence was imaged using excitation with a 488 nm laser, coupled with a 505–530 nm band pass filter, propidium iodide was imaged using a 543 nm laser with a 560-nm-long pass filter, and mCherry fusions were imaged using a 543 nm laser with a 650-nm-long pass filter. For each fluorophore combination, controls lacking each fluorophore in turn confirmed negligible channel crosstalk and autofluorescence (except from chloroplasts). GSTs were purified from frozen plant tissue after extraction using 4 v/w 100 mM TRIS-Cl pH 7.5 containing 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 10 mM sodium ascorbate, 50 μg ml−1 avidin, 10 μg ml−1 bovine pancreatic DNase I, 10 μg ml−1 bovine pancreatic RNase A, and 5% w/v polyvinylpolypyrrolidone. After filtration through miracloth (Calbiochem, Nottingham, UK) and clarification by centrifugation (15 000 g, 20 min, 4 °C), the Strep-GSTs were affinity purified as described for the bacterially expressed enzymes. Purified proteins were concentrated to ∼100 μl by ultrafiltration through a 10 kDa cutoff membrane (2 ml Vivaspin; Sartorius Stedim UK Ltd, Epsom, UK).
