!~ABS~! Full-length tyrosine decarboxylase cDNA ( TyrDC ) from Arabidopsis thaliana was identified by rapid amplification of cDNA ends-PCR and isolated by RT-PCR. The TyrDC mRNA was substantially induced by drought stress and wounding, and was considerably decreased by salt stress. By using TyrDC protein fusions with green fluorescent protein, an intracellular localization to the cytoplasm was shown. Recombinant (His) 6 -TyrDC was expressed in Escherichia coli and enzymatically characterized: it exclusively catalyzed the conversion of l -tyrosine to tyramine, exhibited an optimum temperature of 50 °C, and an optimum pH at approximately 8.5–9. Recombinant TyrDC protein formed tetramers, as shown by blue native gel electrophoresis.
!~RES~! All available mRNA sequences for TyrDC lacked information on the 5′ untranslated region of the gene. Likewise no full-length TyrDC EST clones can be found in publicly available databases. By using primers specific for the annotated open reading frame (TyrDC-datab-for and TyrDC-PstI-rev, [tbl1] ) we were not able to amplify TyrDC by RT-PCR ( [fig1] ), thus we concluded that the sequence in the 5′ region of the gene is perhaps misannotated. To determine the full-length cDNA sequence of TyrDC , we thus undertook a RACE-PCR approach. Starting from the predicted middle of the third exon, an extended cDNA fragment of 568 bp containing additional 5′ sequence was produced. By combining it with the annotated TyrDC mRNA sequence, we obtained a new ORF of 1617 bp that corresponds to the full-length cDNA. Sequence analysis revealed misinterpreted exon intron junctions between the first two exons in the database sequence. [fig1] summarizes the results on the exon intron structure and on the 5′ untranslated region of TyrDC . Using oligonucleotides specific for the obtained coding region of TyrDC allowed the amplification of full-length TyrDC . The difference between the deduced amino acid sequence of TyrDC and the annotated sequence (NP_001078461) is restricted to the extreme N-terminus. The experimentally determined TyrDC amino acid sequence is missing the first ten amino acid residues of the annotated sequence. The rest of the primary sequence is identical to the annotated sequence, thus the polypeptide remains its significant homology with AADCs from other plant species ( [fig2] ). The expression of TyrDC in potato is regulated by environmental stress [bib18] . Other studies report an involvement of TyrDC in plant defense [bib19] and wound response [bib20] . In this regard, it appeared rewarding to analyze whether Arabidopsis TyrDC transcription is also responding to external stimuli. For this purpose different stimuli, e.g. wounding, transition to darkness, temperature, drought, and high salt conditions, were tested by qRT-PCR for their ability to influence TyrDC transcription ( [fig3] A). TyrDC transcription strongly responds to wounding. TyrDC levels peak within 30 min and transcript levels decline thereafter. Furthermore, TyrDC was rapidly activated by drought stress, reaching maximum levels after 60 min. In contrast, heat and cold stress, as well as stimulation by pathogens triggered no significant alteration of TyrDC transcripts. Salt stress gave rise to a transient decrease of TyrDC levels by approximately 50% after 60 min. Time course experiments uncovered a substantial and transient induction of TyrDC gene expression by MeJA ( [fig3] B). In this series of experiments, both coronatine [bib21] and OPDA [bib22] were by far less effective. Plant TyrDCs are suggested to be soluble proteins located in the cytoplasm. To determine the intracellular targeting of TyrDC several reporter constructs were cloned for transient transformation of A. thaliana pavement cells, using particle bombardment for gene delivery. TyrDC full-length cDNA was fused to GFP on either the 5′ or the 3′ end of the gene. The transient expression studies with the TyrDC-GFP fusions ( [fig4] ) suggest a cytoplasmic localization of the chimeric proteins, almost resembling the results for the cytoplasmic control ( [fig5] ). For His-tagged TyrDC an apparent molecular mass of approximately 65 kDa was estimated by SDS–PAGE ( [app1] ). The recombinant protein refused all other substrates other than l -tyrosine, suggesting TyrDC to be a specific l -tyrosine decarboxylase ( [tbl2] ). The enzyme exhibits a broad temperature optimum with a maximum at 50 °C. At temperatures above 60 °C protein activity sharply declines. The pH optimum is relatively broad (8–9.5), maximum enzyme activity can be detected at pH 8.5–9. At pH values above 9.5 the enzymatic activity rapidly declines. TyrDC shows Michaelis–Menten kinetics with l -tyrosine concentrations up to 3.5 mM ( [fig5] A). To determine both the maximum reaction rate ( V max ) and the substrate affinity ( K m ) of TyrDC the Lineweaver–Burk equation was used ( [fig6] B). This led to the calculation of a V max of 61 nkat (mg protein) −1 and a K m of 0.75 mM ( [tbl2] ). To explore a possible oligomerization of TyrDC, we estimated its subunit state by non-denaturing blue native gel electrophoresis ( [fig6] ). Thereby, evidence for an exclusive occurrence of His-tagged TyrDC in tetrameric state could be provided. An immunosignal was only detectable in the range of the 232 kDa marker.
!~MM~! All experiments were carried out using Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Col-0 (NASC, stock N1092). Seedlings were sterilely raised on solidified ½ MS-medium supplemented with 1% (w/v) sucrose [bib5] ; plantlets were kept under constant environmental conditions (8 h light at 24 °C, 16 h darkness at 20 °C, photosynthetically active radiation 105 μE m −2 s −1 ) for 2–4 weeks. To assess the influence of various different stress conditions on TyrDC mRNA levels, 4 weeks old seedlings were incubated under different conditions for time periods indicated, before 100 mg plant material was harvested, frozen in liquid nitrogen, and total RNA was extracted. To induce cold stress, plants were incubated at 4 °C; for heat stress, plants were kept at 38 °C. To mimic drought conditions, plates were opened to allow the plants and the medium to be dehumidified in a drying chamber. To induce salt stress, medium was supplemented with 3 M NaCl; other plates were transferred to darkness. Wounding was performed by using sterile tweezers. Plants kept at constant conditions in a phytochamber were used as controls. In case of oxylipin treatment, 7 days old sterilely grown plants were used. Plates were either supplemented with 50 μM 12-oxo-phytodienoic acid (OPDA), 50 μM methyl jasmonic acid (MeJA) or 10 μM coronatine dissolved in ½ MS solution. As control, plants treated with ½ MS solution without any further supplementation were used. Pathogen studies made use of the avirulent bacteria strain Pseudomonas syringae DC3000( avrRPM1 ). Pathogen infiltration was performed with a 5 × 10 7 cfu ml −1 suspension [bib6] . Total RNA was prepared from 100 mg plant tissue by using TRIzol reagent (Invitrogen, Karlsruhe, Germany) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. RNA to be used in subsequent rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE)-PCR applications or qPCR was further purified using an Oligotex mRNA kit (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany). First-strand synthesis was performed according to the supplier’s instructions, using M-MLV-reverse transcriptase and oligo(dT) 15 primer (Promega, Madison, USA). All subsequently performed PCR applications made use of intron-spanning, gene-specific oligonucleotides ( [tbl1] ). For RACE a 5′/3′ RACE kit (2nd generation, Roche Diagnostics, Mannheim, Germany) was used according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Based on the TyrDC sequence, as is deposited in GenBank (NM_119010), two oligonucleotides were designed and used (see [tbl1] ). Finally, the obtained extended cDNA fragment was commercially sequenced (GATC, Konstanz, Germany). To quantify the expression of TyrDC in response to multiple environmental cues, quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) was performed in a total volume of 25 μl using the QuantiFast SYBR Green RT-PCR kit (Qiagen) on a DNA Engine Opticon 2 instrument (MJ Research, Waltham, USA) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Relative quantification of expression was calculated after data analysis using Opticon monitor software (ver. 2.02.24, MJ Research) by the comparative 2 - Δ Δ C T method [bib7] with EF-1α , APT1 , and UBQ10 as reference genes [bib8] . For normalization and determination of amplification efficiencies the geNORM and LinRegPCR algorithms, respectively, were used [bib9 bib10] . Molecular techniques were carried out following standard protocols according to [bib11] . Full-length TyrDC cDNA was amplified by PCR using gene specific primers (TyrDC-RACE-for/TyrDC-PstI-rev, [tbl1] ) and cloned into pGEM-T (Promega). The PCR parameters were 95 °C for 10 min followed by 35 cycles of 95 °C for 45 s, 58 °C for 45 s, and 72 °C for 90 s; for the amplification of the coding region a proofreading polymerase (iProof, Bio-Rad, Munich, Germany) was used. After sequence verification of the PCR product (GATC), the corresponding fragment was cloned into each of the vectors pQE-30 (Qiagen) and pTrcHis2 (Invitrogen) by using BamHI/PstI sites. For generation of green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion constructs, the BamHI/SalI fragment from pTrcHis-TyrDC was introduced into the BamHI/SalI sites of pUC-GFPn and pUC-GFPc. These vectors facilitate 5′ and 3′ fusion, respectively, of target genes with the coding sequence of the GFP gene. Expression of these fusion constructs is driven by a 35S promoter and terminated by a NOS terminator sequence. N-terminally hexahistidine-tagged TyrDC was expressed in Escherichia coli strain M15 [pREP4] harboring the pQE-TyrDC construct. For this, 300 ml of 2YT medium were inoculated with 30 ml of an overnight culture and incubated at 30 °C under constant shaking. Once an optical density (OD 600 ) of 0.8–1.0 was reached, protein expression was induced by adding 1 mM IPTG. After an additional incubation time of 18 h, cells were harvested by centrifugation (4000× g , 15 min, 4 °C). Then pellets were resuspended in 30 ml of lysis buffer (50 mM sodium phosphate buffer pH 7.5, 300 mM NaCl, 25 mM imidazole, 1 mg ml −1 lysozyme). Following a 30 min incubation on ice, bacteria were disrupted by sonification (three burst of ultrasound, 30 s, 40 W), and the soluble protein fraction was isolated by centrifugation (10 000× g , 20 min, 4 °C). The resulting supernatant was filtered through 0.22 μm Millex-GP filter units (Milipore, Billerica, USA) and (His) 6 -tagged proteins purified by affinity chromatography on a Ni 2+ agarose matrix (Qiagen) following the supplier’s instructions. Eluates were desalted using PD-10 columns (GE Healthcare, Freiburg, Germany), equilibrated with 50 mM sodium phosphate buffer at pH 7.5, and protein concentrations determined according to [bib12] . Transient transformation of pavement cells and subsequent microscopic analysis of the expressed GFP-tagged proteins was carried out as previously described [bib13] . Arabidopsis plantlets were transformed by particle bombardment. After incubation for 16–18 h, TyrDC-GFP expressing cells were analyzed by confocal laser scanning microscopy. Screening for appropriate substrates of recombinant TyrDC was performed by thin layer chromatography (TLC). Different substrates (5 mM) (all proteinogenic amino acids, β-alanine, l -citrulline, l -cystine, l -3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine, l -homoserine, and l -ornithine) were incubated for 3 h together with 1 mM pyridoxal 5′-phosphate and 5 μg of purified protein in 50 mM sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.5) at 30 °C in a total volume of 300 μl. The reaction was stopped by adding 900 μl ice-cold methanol. After incubation at −20 °C for 2 h, samples were centrifuged (13 000× g , 30 min) to precipitate contained proteins. Supernatants were transferred into fresh reaction tubes before they were reduced to dryness in vacuo. Subsequently, residues were dissolved in the TLC solvent system, consisting of ethyl acetate:methanol:28% ammonia (v/v) (45:35:20, v/v) for aromatic substrates and butanol:ethyl acetate:28% ammonia (v/v):water (3:5:1:1, v/v) for aliphatic substrates, respectively, and spotted on TLC plates (Macherey-Nagel, Düren, Germany). After chromatographic separation, amines were stained with ninhydrin (0.2% in ethanol). All further enzymatic assays were analyzed by HPLC according to protocols earlier described [bib14 bib15] , on a HPLC system (Modell 510, Waters, Milford, USA) equipped with a C18 column (Luna 5μ, Phenomenex, Aschaffenburg, Germany) and a Waters 470 fluorescence detector. Analytical blue native PAGE was carried out as described by [bib16] . After western blotting [bib17] , the membrane was incubated for 2 h at RT with monoclonal (His) 5 antibody (1:1000, Novagen, Nottingham, UK). Subsequently, immunodetection of recombinant (His) 6 -TyrDC was performed by the standard ECL method according to the manufacturer’s instructions (GE Healthcare) after incubation with anti-mouse horseradish peroxidase-coupled secondary antibodies (1:7500, Promega) for 2 h at ambient temperature.
