!~ABS~! S-adenosyl-l-methionine-dependent rRNA dimethylases mediate the methylation of two conserved adenosines near the 3′ end of the rRNA in the small ribosomal subunits of bacteria, archaea and eukaryotes. Proteins related to this family of dimethylases play an essential role as transcription factors (mtTFBs) in fungal and animal mitochondria. Human mitochondrial rRNA is methylated and human mitochondria contain two related mtTFBs, one proposed to act as rRNA dimethylase, the other as transcription factor. The nuclear genome of Arabidopsis thaliana encodes three dimethylase/mtTFB-like proteins, one of which, Dim1B, is shown here to be imported into mitochondria. Transcription initiation by mitochondrial RNA polymerases appears not to be stimulated by Dim1B in vitro. In line with this finding, phylogenetic analyses revealed Dim1B to be more closely related to a group of eukaryotic non-mitochondrial rRNA dimethylases (Dim1s) than to fungal and animal mtTFBs. We found that Dim1B was capable of substituting the E. coli rRNA dimethylase activity of KsgA. Moreover, we observed methylation of the conserved adenines in the 18S rRNA of Arabidopsis mitochondria; this modification was not detectable in a mutant lacking Dim1B. These data provide evidence: (i) for rRNA methylation in Arabidopsis mitochondria; and (ii) that Dim1B is the enzyme catalyzing this process.
!~RES~! To screen the Arabidopsis genome for sequences encoding mtTFB-like proteins we queried the genome and EST databases with the putative Schizosaccharomyces pombe mtTFB amino acid sequence ([b39]et al., 2002) and the human mtTFB1 and mtTFB2 sequences ([b12]et al., 2002) using the BLASTP and TBLASTN algorithms available at the National Centre for Biotechnology Information (NCBI). The search predicted three mtTFB/rRNA dimethyltransferase-like proteins to be encoded by the loci At5g66360, At2g47420 and At1g01860 in Arabidopsis. At1g01860 corresponds to the previously characterized Pfc1 gene coding for a plastidial 16S rRNA dimethylase ([b62]et al., 1998). The putative rRNA dimethyltransferase genes at loci At2g47420 and At5g66360 were tentatively designated Dim1A and Dim1B, respectively. Dim1A is predicted to encode a 353-amino acid polypeptide. Available EST data support alternative splicing of the hypothetical mRNA deriving from Dim1B, which would give rise to two different polypeptides of 352 and 380 amino acids (Accession numbers. NP_201437 and NP_975003). However, PCR amplification of the Dim1B coding sequence from cDNA yielded only the splice product coding for the longer of the two predicted products. For Dim1A, a cDNA sequence of the expected length was amplified (data not shown). Protein sequence comparisons revealed that the annotated optional Dim1B intron codes for amino acid sequence motifs that are conserved among rRNA dimethylase-like proteins (amino acids 214–241 of the derived Dim1B polypeptide). Hence, further sequence analyses were based on the longer deduced Dim1B polypeptide. Both Dim1A and Dim1B display ∼27% and ∼30% amino acid sequence similarity to mtTFB from S. pombe and S. cerevisiae, respectively; ∼12% and ∼15% of the predicted amino acids are identical when sequences exclusive of the predicted transit peptides are compared. These levels of similarity approximately correspond to those between human and fungal mtTFB sequences. Similarities of Dim1A and Dim1B with each human TFB1M and TFB2M are ∼37%; amino acids are for both Dim1A and Dim1B ∼20% identical with the human sequences. Several computer algorithms consistently predict Dim1B to possess an N-terminal transit peptide mediating the import of the protein into mitochondria while Dim1A might be a nuclear protein ([SD6]). To experimentally investigate the subcellular localization of Dim1A and Dim1B, nucleotide sequences encoding the full length and 64 N-terminal amino acids of Dim1A and Dim1B, respectively, were fused in-frame to the green fluorescent protein (GFP) coding sequence. Arabidopsis protoplasts were transformed with the Dim1A– and Dim1B–GFP fusion constructs and transient expression of the fusion proteins was monitored using confocal laser fluorescence microscopy. Two plasmids encoding a mitochondrial Cox4–GFP or a plastidial RecA–GFP fusion protein were used for reference transformations of Arabidopsis protoplasts. Protoplasts expressing Dim1B–GFP displayed green fluorescence of small structures resembling the fluorescent mitochondria of protoplasts synthesizing Cox4–GFP ([fig01]), substantiating a mitochondrial localization of Dim1B. Dim1A–GFP fluorescence, on the other hand, was found to localize to the nucleus and for the most part enveloped a small globular structure therein, which likely corresponds to the nucleolus. These data indicate that Dim1A does not possess a mitochondrial or plastidial transit peptide. Transient expression of GFP fusion proteins in Arabidopsis thaliana protoplasts. The Dim1A and Dim1B gene fragments encoding putative transit peptides were inserted into plasmid pOL–GFPS65C to generate vectors driving the expression of Dim1A–GFP (a) and Dim1B–GFP (b) showing nuclear (a) and mitochondrial (b) GFP localisation. Control constructs code for plastidial RecA–GFP (c) and mitochondrial CoxIV–GFP (d), respectively. Images were taken by confocal fluorescence microscopy. In order to assess the phylogenetic relationships of Arabidopsis Dim1A, Dim1B and of the plastidial methyltransferase Pfc1 to established mitochondrial transcription factors such as yeast and animal mtTFBs and to other rRNA dimethylases such as E. coli KsgA, the Dim1A, Dim1B and Pfc1 sequences were compared with available mtTFB sequences and to a set of sequences of characterized and predicted rRNA dimethylases. Blast analyses with Arabidopsis thaliana Dim1A and Dim1B of all plant genomes available at the Joint Genome Initiative database (http://genome.jgi-psf.org/) including Cyanidioschyzon merolae, Chlorella vulgaris, Ostreococcus tauri, Ostreococcus lucimarinus, Volvox carteri, Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, Physcomitrella patens and Selaginella moellendorffii combined with searches against the NCBI Plant EST database revealed that Dim1B-like proteins might be restricted to flowering plants. For identified plant Dim proteins, subcellular targeting was predicted employing the TargetP, Predotar, iPsort and MultiLoc algorithms ([tbl1]). All sequences with high similarity to Arabidopsis Dim1B, which are therefore designated Dim1B in the phylogenetic tree, were predicted to contain putative mitochondrial transit peptides. Proteins most similar to Arabidopsis Dim1A were predicted to be neither plastidial nor mitochondrial ([tbl1]) and are referred to as Dim1A. Notably, the Physcomitrella genome was found to lack a Dim1B homologue but encodes two potential dimethyltransferases which best align with plant Dim1A proteins, PpDim1A-1 being predicted to be neither mitochondrial nor plastidial and PpDim1A-2 containing a putative mitochondrial transit peptide ([tbl1]). Amino acid sequences were compared using the Multalin algorithm ([b8]) and the alignment was refined according to a structure-based alignment generated for fungal mtTFBs and the Bacillus subtilis rRNA dimethylase ErmC’ ([b55]et al., 2001; see [SD1]). Based on the selected sequence blocks indicated in the alignment, a Bayesian phylogenetic tree was derived ([fig02] and [SD2]). Essentially the same tree topology was obtained employing neighbour joining (NJ) or maximum likelyhood (ML) analysis. Prediction of subcellular localisations for Dim1A, Dim1B and Pfc-like proteins Predictions of targeting to the mitochondrion (mt), nucleus (nc), cytoplasm (cyt) or plastid (pt) by the respective computer algorithms are documented. Proteins are designated as follows: CrPfc, Chlamydomonas reinhardtii Pfc; VcPfc, Volvox carteri Pfc; OtPfc, Ostreococcus tauri Pfc; PpPfc, Physcomitrella patens Pfc; SmPfc, Selaginella moellendorffii Pfc; PgPfc, Pinus glauca Pfc; PpDim1A-2, Physcomitrella patens Dim1A-2. Magnoliophyta Dim1A and Dim1B include predictions for proteins from Arabidopsis thaliana, Vitis vinifera, Medicago truncatula, Lycopersicon esculentum, Populus trichocarpa, Zea mays and Oryza sativa. http://urgi.versailles.inra.fr/predotar/predotar.html. http://hc.ims.u-tokyo.ac.jp/iPSORT/. http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/. http://www-bs.informatik.uni-tuebingen.de/Services/MultiLoc. Phylogeny of mitochondrial transcription factors and small-subunit rRNA dimethylases. Bayesian phylogenetic analysis from conserved amino acid sequence sections indicated in the amino acid sequence alignment (see [SD1]). Collapsed branches of orthologous and paralogous proteins from the detailed phylogenetic tree (see [SD2]) are displayed as triangles. Total branch length to the closest and the farthest leaf are used to calculate the length of the triangles. Arabidopsis Dim1A and its plant orthologues appear to be most closely related to a group of rRNA dimethylases containing the yeast nucleolar 18S rRNA dimethylase Dim1. Therefore, they most probably represent nuclear/cytoplasmic enzymes, a suggestion which would be consistent with computational predictions of the subcellular localization of these proteins and with our GFP import experiments conducted with Arabidopsis Dim1A. A sister group to plant, fungal and animal nuclear Dim1-like dimethylases is formed by the predicted mitochondrial rRNA dimethylases of plants including Arabidopsis Dim1B. Remarkably, amino acid sequence similarities of Arabidopsis Dim1A and Dim1B to yeast Dim1 are 68% and 54%, respectively and considerably exceed similarities to yeast or animal mtTFBs. This is contrasted by similarities of yeast mtTFB, human TFB1M and TFB2M to yeast Dim1 with only 36%, 35% and 28%. The phylogram shows that the presumed plant mitochondrial rRNA dimethylases clustering with either Dim1A or Dim1B are decidedly more closely related to nuclear/cytoplasmic enzymes of this type – notably with the archaeal Dim1-like proteins at the root of this clade – than to fungal and animal mtTFBs. On the other hand, the mtTFB sequences form a common branch with alpha-proteobacterial dimethyltransferases as previously described ([b58]). Arabidopsis Pfc1 and its plant orthologues compose a distinct group apart from the Dim1A/Dim1B cluster and from three other well separated groups formed by animal TFB1Ms, animal TFB2Ms and the highly diverse fungal mtTFBs. In agreement with a recent study ([b44]et al., 2009), the Pfc1-like sequences, which likely code for plastidial dimethyltransferases, unexpectedly form a common clade with chlamydial sequences but not with cyanobacterial or mitochondrial dimethyltransferases ([fig02] and [SD2]). Given the presence of apparently only one mtTFB/rRNA dimethylase-like protein in plant mitochondria, our further experiments were designed to answer the question of whether Arabidopsis Dim1B could play a dual role as a mitochondrial rRNA dimethyltransferase and as a mitochondrial transcription factor. Recombinant Arabidopsis Dim1B was prepared in order to assay the protein in vitro for a possible function as cofactor in mitochondrial transcription. Dim1B fused to an N-terminal hexahistidine tag was expressed in E. coli and soluble recombinant protein was enriched from bacterial extracts; Dim1A was similarly prepared so as to have a non-mitochondrial rRNA dimethylase-like protein available for control experiments ([SD3]). In order to confirm the correct folding and native conformation of the recombinant proteins, electrophoretic mobility shift assays of Dim1A and Dim1B were carried out with mitochondrial DNA probes following the protocol described for testing DNA binding by human TFB1M ([b39]et al., 2002). Both Arabidopsis proteins were found to bind to DNA without showing sequence specificity ([SD3]). It has been demonstrated that the yeast mitochondrial phage-type RNA polymerase RPO41, which on its own transcribes double-stranded linear DNA only non-specifically, recognizes mitochondrial promoters on a linear DNA template when complemented with sc-mtTFB in in vitro transcription experiments ([b53]et al., 1987b). We therefore used our previously established in vitro transcription system ([b26]et al., 2007) to test if recombinant Dim1B enabled the Arabidopsis mitochondrial RNA polymerases RPOTm or RPOTmp to specifically transcribe from mitochondrial promoters located on linear DNA templates. We also examined if, in the presence of Dim1B, the two RNA polymerases recognized promoters on both linear and supercoiled DNA that in our earlier study ([b26]et al., 2007) were not specifically utilized by any of the two enzymes. Recombinant RPOTm and RPOTmp were assayed for transcription initiation at several mitochondrial promoters (promoter sequences are listed in [SD2]) in the presence or absence of equimolar amounts of Dim1B; in order to discern non-specific effects of Dim1B addition, control reactions were set up with Dim1A ([SD4]). [SD4] shows the PAGE analysis of transcripts synthesized in vitro from linear or supercoiled DNA templates containing the mitochondrial promoters Patp6-1-156 and Patp6-1-200, Patp8-157 and Patp8-228/226, or Prrn18-69 and Prrn18-156. RPOTm did not specifically transcribe from any mitochondrial promoter on a linear DNA template in the presence or absence of Dim1B; neither did the enzyme show increased mitochondrial promoter specificity due to Dim1B addition when supercoiled templates were provided. None of the promoters not utilized by RPOTm in the absence of Dim1B, like Patp6-1-156 or Prrn18-69, was recognized when Dim1B was added. The transcriptional activity and initiation specificity of RPOTmp were similarly unaltered by the addition of Dim1B; no significant promoter specificity of this enzyme was seen in the presence or absence of Dim1B with any mitochondrial promoter tested (only experiments with supercoiled templates are shown for RPOTmp). In addition to the three DNA templates analysed as shown in [SD4], several other DNA templates with different promoters were tested. Promoter recognition assays are summarized in [tbl2]. Altogether, the addition of Dim1B appears to have no effect on RPOTm- or RPOTmp-driven transcription. Promoter recognition by RPOTm in vitro To determine if the Dim1B protein is a functional rRNA dimethyltransferase, the complementation of an E. coli mutant lacking the N6-adenine dimethyltransferase encoded by the KsgA gene (KsgA−E. coli) was investigated. The bacterial strain was assayed for complementation by the introduced Dim1B gene from Arabidopsis. This strategy essentially follows the complementation assays as described by [b56]et al. (2003) for complementing KsgA-deficient E. coli with human TFB1M. N6-adenine methyltransferase activity in KsgA−E. coli was recovered when the Arabidopsis Dim1B gene was introduced ([fig03]), indicating that Dim1B indeed is a functional and site-specific rRNA dimethylase. In both expression systems used, with the Dim1B gene activated either from the LacZ promoter (JM101) or from the T7 promoter (BL21(DE3)), N6-adenine methyltransferase activity was observed. In the LacZ system, the methylating enzyme activity seems to be weaker than in the T7 system, which may be caused by the weaker promoter and the resulting lower level of protein expression. In the T7 system, an extra primer extension product terminating at G1517 is observed. In the bacterial small ribosomal rRNAs such an m2G modification at position G1516 has been reported. However, the correspondence of this extension product with this modification needs to be confirmed by further analysis. The Dim1B gene from Arabidopsis thaliana can complement site specific methylation defects in E. coli. The coding sequence of the Dim1B gene from Arabidopsis thaliana was cloned into vectors driving transcription in E. coli from either a lacZ or a T7 promoter as indicated in the scheme and introduced into the E. coli strains JM101 or BL21(DE3) lacking the ksgA gene. The specific adenosine dimethylation in the 3′ terminal stem–loop structure of the bacterial 16S rRNA is depicted on the left. Primer extension in the presence of ddATP confirms the absence of this methylation in the ksgA− mutant bacteria and yields no signal at the adenosine doublet but terminates primer extension at the next uridine in the 16S rRNA sequence. Introduction of a functional ksgA gene or either of the expression constructs of the Dim1B gene from Arabidopsis restores the methylation signal at the adenosine dinucleotide. The left part of the gel image shows the corresponding RNA sequence reactions for orientation of the ddATP termination signals. These complementation assays show that the Dim1B protein encoded by the Dim1B gene is an active N6-adenine methyltransferase which modifies the AA dinucleotide at the bacterial 16S rRNA nucleotides A1518 and A1519, the positions equivalent to the plant mitochondrial 18S rRNA nucleotides A1914 and A1915. To analyse the functional importance of this modification, the requirement of the Dim1B gene for plant growth was investigated. A mutant line of Arabidopsis (GABI-Kat 071F10) that contains a T-DNA fragment inserted in the second exon of the Dim1B gene (see Experimental Procedures) and designated as dim1B was employed to analyse the role of Dim1B in mitochondrial RNA metabolism. The mutation had no apparent effect on plant growth or development under standard growth conditions (data not shown). As reverse transcriptase is unable to extend a DNA oligonucleotide primer if it encounters an adenosine dimethylated at the N-6 position of the base ([b19]et al., 1978; [b59]et al., 1988), we used primer extension to distinguish between the modification states of wild-type and dim1B rRNAs. As shown in [fig04], primer extension was inhibited at positions A1914/A1915 suggesting modification of the mitochondrial 18S rRNA at these nucleotides in the wild type. This signal was absent in RNA from the homozygous insertion line dim1B, where reverse transcription did continue uninhibited to position U1908. These results indicate that the conserved modification of two adenosines at the 3′ end of the ssrRNA is present in the 18S rRNA of Arabidopsis wild-type mitochondria and that dim1B plants lack this methylation, confirming that Dim1B is essential for methylation of the adenosine dinucleotide. Arabidopsis dim1B plants lack adenosine modification of the mitochondrial 18S rRNA. (a) Sequence and predicted structure of the 3′ end of the mitochondrial small subunit 18S rRNA, the arrow indicating the reverse complementary primer used in the assay. (b) Poisoned primer extension products using wild-type (wt) and Arabidopsis thaliana dim1B plants (ΔAtdim1B) in which the Dim1B gene is disrupted. In wt plants ddATP incorporation into the cDNA strand at the methylated adenosine doublet results in a strong termination signal at these nucleotides and only a weak read-through signal at the next uridine. In the dim1B mutant no termination is detected at the adenosines and the read-through signal is increased.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Columbia) wild type and T-DNA insertion line 071F10 were grown under short-day conditions (8 h of light/16 h of dark) for 14 days and then transferred to long-day conditions (16 h of light/8 h of dark) in a growth chamber. The T-DNA insertion line 071F10 was obtained from the GABI-Kat collection. Plants homozygous for the mutation were identified by PCR analysis of a segregating population. Segregation analysis showed the mutant trait to be inherited in a monogenic fashion (3:1 segregation). Sequencing of T-DNA borders identified the insertion site within exon 2 of the genomic Dim1B sequence on chromosome V (At5g66360), 947 nucleotides downstream of the ATG initiation start codon in the CDS (see [SD5]). From the selfed line, we selected a homozygous mutant by PCR analysis and named it dim1B. The presence of a single T-DNA insertion in dim1B was shown by Southern blot analysis of the mutant using the T-DNA probe (data not shown). Total cellular RNA was extracted from leaves and flowers of Arabidopsis plants using TRIZOL (Invitrogen, http://www.invitrogen.com/) according to the protocol provided by the manufacturer. Total cDNA was synthesized from 1 μg mRNA-enriched Arabidopsis RNA using Poly(A)Purist™ kit (Ambion, http://www.ambion.com) and Omniscript RT kit (QIAGEN, http://www.qiagen.com/) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Protein-coding sequences were amplified from the Arabidopsis cDNA with Pfu DNA polymerase (Promega, http://www.promega.com/). Sanger dideoxy sequencing was performed on an ABI3130xl sequencer (Applied Biosystems, http://www.appliedbiosystems.com/). To generate the pDim1B–GFP and pDim1A–GFP constructs driving the expression of fusion proteins Dim1B–GFP and Dim1A–GFP, sequences encoding the 64 N-terminal amino acids of Dim1B and the complete coding sequence of Dim1A were amplified from reverse-transcribed mRNA-enriched Arabidopsis RNA using primer pairs gfp-Dim1B-P/gfp-Dim1B-M (5′-cagctctagaATGATTCTTCGATTGAAAGACCA-3′/5′-cagcgtcgacTGCACAGAAACAATCCATCG-3′) and gfp-Dim1A-P/gfp-Dim1A-4M (5′-cagctctagaATGGCGGGAGGCAAGATC-3′/5′-cagcgtcgacTGAAGTGAATACCAGACTTGTTACA-3′), respectively. PCR products were XbaI/SalI-digested and inserted into the SpeI/SalI-cleaved vector pOL–GFP S65C ([b46]et al., 2000). Control constructs encoding mitochondrial Cox4–GFP and plastidial RecA–GFP were kindly provided by I. Small ([b46]et al., 2000). GFP-constructs were used to transform isolated Arabidopsis protoplasts as described in [b67]et al. (2009). Protoplasts were examined 2 days after transformation by confocal laser scanning microscopy with a Leica TCS SP2 using 488 nm excitation and two-channel measurement of emission from 510 to 580 nm (green/GFP) and >590 nm (red/chlorophyll). Genomic sequences, EST sequences and amino acid sequences were retrieved from the National Center for Biotechnology Information (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/BLAST/) employing the BLASTP and TBLASTN algorithms and from the Joint Genome Institute (http://genome.jgi-psf.org/). E. coli KsgA, human Dim1, AtPfc1 and h-TFB1M sequences were used as query sequences. For translation and alignment, sequences were subsequently imported into geneious v4.5 ([b11]et al., 2008). A multiple protein sequence alignment was generated using clustalw ([b60]et al., 1994) implemented in the geneious package using GONNET cost matrix with gap open cost set to 10 and gap extend cost set to 0.1. The alignment was refined manually with respect to the known secondary structural homology and poorly aligned regions were excluded from following analyses. For a phylogenetic reconstruction based on Bayesian statistics, the MrBayes program version 3.1 ([b49]) was used. In addition, maximum likelihood (phyML; [b18]) and neighbour joining analysis ([b50]) implemented in the geneious v4.5 package were conducted. Sequences encoding amino acids 18–353 of Dim1A (AGI At2g47420) and amino acids 26–380 of Dim1B (AGI At5g66360) were amplified from reverse-transcribed mRNA-enriched Arabidopsis RNA using oligonucleotide primer pairs Dim1A-PROP/Dim1A-PROM (cagcgtcgacTCGAACCATTACCAAGGAGGAATAT/cagcgcggccgcACACCACAAAACGATTATGTGAAGTG) and Dim1B-PROP/Dim1B-PROM (cagcgtcgacCGAGATTCTCACTCGCAGGC/cagcgcggccgcTTATTCGTGTAGATCCATTTGTAATGATG), respectively. PCR products were ligated into pPROTet.E121 (Clontech, http://www.clontech.com/) to generate plasmids pPRO-Dim1A and pPRO-Dim1B. Primer extension reactions were carried out according to standard protocols ([b51]et al., 1989) using 10 μg of total Arabidopsis RNA isolated from wild-type plants and the homozygous dim1B insertion line each. The DNA oligonucleotide primer PPEAtmt18S (5′-GAAGGATTCAATCCAGCCACA-3′) was end-labelled with [γ-32P]ATP and T4-polynucleotide kinase (Fermentas, http://www.fermentas.com). Primer extensions were performed using Superscript-III MMLV reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen) at 50°C, with nucleotides ddATP, dCTP, dGTP, dTTP at 0.02 mm and with 2 pmol end-labelled primer. The end-labelled oligonucleotide 5′-TAAGGAGGTGATCCAACCGCA-3′ was used for reverse transcription for the analysis of the AA dinucleotide at the bacterial rRNA nucleotides A1518 and A1519, the positions equivalent to the plant mitochondrial rRNA nucleotides A1914 and A1915. RNA sequencing reactions were performed as described previously ([b31]) using total RNA of strains JM101KsgA19 and BL21(DE2)KsgA_0, respectively. Resulting products were analysed on a 10% sequencing gel. Visualization was done with a PhosphoImaging system and the complementary software (Bio-Rad, http://www.bio-rad.com/). For the bacterial complementation tests, E. coli strains JM101KsgA19 and BL21(DE3)KsgA_0 lacking the KsgA gene and JM101 were kindly provided by Dr A. Vila-Sanjurjo. The Dim1B gene lacking the N-terminal targeting signal was ligated into pBluescriptII KS (pBS_Dim1B) and into the BamHI and XhoI sites of pET28a (pET28_ Dim1B) and pET29a (pET29_ Dim1B) (Novagen, http://www.novagen.com), respectively. Bacterial strains Strain BL21(DE3)pLys (Stratagene, http://www.stratagene.com/), as well as JM101, were used as positive controls. Strain JM101KsgA19 was transformed with pBS_ Dim1B. Strain BL21(DE2)KsgA_0 was transformed with pET28_ Dim1B and pET29_ Dim1B, respectively. Each bacterial strain was grown up to A600nm∼0.6 and total RNA was isolated using a previously described method ([b25]et al., 2003). Recombinant Dim1A and Dim1B were overexpressed in Escherichia coli BL21 Codon Plus RIL (Stratagene), purified over Ni2+–NTA–agarose (QIAGEN) and stored in 20 mm Tris/HCl, pH 7.8, 50 mm NaCl, 0.5 mm EDTA, 1 mm DTT, 50% (v/v) glycerol at −20°C for 2–6 weeks. Expression and purification of recombinant RPOTm and RPOTmp was performed as described ([b26]et al., 2007). To generate DNA templates for in vitro transcription assays, mitochondrial DNA fragments were ligated into pKL23 ([b30]) upstream of terminator sequences; all plasmids used in this study have been described earlier ([b26]et al., 2007). Linearized templates were generated by XhoI or EcoRI digests and purified via QIAquick spin columns (QIAGEN). In vitro transcription assays were carried out for 45 min at 30°C essentially as described in ([b26]et al., 2007). Reactions contained 6.7 mm Tris/HCl (pH 7.9), 6.7 mm KCl, 6.7 mm MgCl2, 0.67 mm DTT, 0.067% (w/v) BSA, 267 μm each ATP, CTP and GTP, 13 μm unlabelled UTP and 10 μCi of [γ-32P]–UTP (3000 Ci/mmol), 24 U RNase inhibitor and 200 ng of template DNA in a final volume of 15 μl. Reactions were started by adding 400 fmol of recombinant RPOTm or RPOTmp and 400 fmol of recombinant Dim1A or Dim1B where indicated and stopped with 115 μl RNA extraction buffer [6 m urea, 360 mm NaCl, 20 mm EDTA, 10 mm Tris/HCl pH 8.0, 1% (w/v) SDS] and 20 μl 2.25 m sodium acetate (pH 5.2). Nucleic acids were extracted with phenol/chloroform/isoamyl alcohol (25:24:1) and ethanol precipitated. Transcripts were then dissolved in formamide buffer [95% (v/v) formamide; 0,02% (w/v) bromphenol blue; 0,02% (w/v) xylene cyanol] and resolved using a Protean II xi electrophoresis unit (Bio-Rad) on 7 m urea, 5% polyacrylamide gels using 0.6× TBE as electrophoresis buffer. A radiolabeled RNA length standard was generated using the RNA Century Marker Template Plus (Ambion) and MAXIscript kit (Ambion) according to the manufacturer’s instructions and separated alongside RNA samples. Following electrophoresis, gels were dried and subjected to autoradiography employing a phosphoimager (Molecular Imager FX; Bio-Rad).
