!~ABS~! The cytosolic glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH, EC 1.2.1.12, GapC) plays an important role in glycolysis by providing the cell with ATP and NADH. Interestingly, despite its glycolytic function in the cytosol, GAPDH was reported to possess additional non-glycolytic activities, correlating with its nuclear, or cytoskeletal localization in animal cells. In transiently transformed mesophyll protoplasts from Arabidopsis thaliana colocalization and interaction of the glycolytic enzymes with the mitochondria and with the actin cytoskeleton was visualized by confocal laser scanning microscopy (cLSM) using fluorescent protein fusions and by bimolecular fluorescence complementation, respectively. Yeast two-hybrid screens, dot-blot overlay assays, and co-sedimentation assays were used to identify potential protein–protein interactions between two cytosolic GAPDH isoforms (GapC1, At3g04120; GapC2, At1g13440) from A. thaliana with the neighboring glycolytic enzyme, fructose 1,6-bisphosphate aldolase (FBA6, At2g36460), the mitochondrial porin (VDAC3; At5g15090), and actin in vitro. From these experiments, a mitochondrial association is suggested for both glycolytic enzymes, GAPDH and aldolase, which appear to bind to the outer mitochondrial membrane, in a redox-dependent manner. In addition, both glycolytic enzymes were found to bind to F-actin in co-sedimentation assays, and lead to bundling of purified rabbit actin, as visualized by cLSM. Actin-binding and bundling occurred reversibly under oxidizing conditions. We speculate that such dynamic formation of microcompartments is part of a redox-dependent retrograde signal transduction network for adaptation upon oxidative stress.
!~RES~! Apart from the even cytosolic distribution and the occasional nuclear localization of the GFP-fused GapC1, GapC2, and aldolase, reported previously (Holtgrefe et al., [B29]; van der Linde et al., [B79]), fluorescent signals appeared in a non-homogeneous distribution as locally accumulated foci of GapC2:GFP and GapC1:GFP/CFP in the cytosol of the transformed protoplasts (Figures [F1]A,B). The GapC-containing structures emitted intense fluorescence that in many cases was much stronger than the cytosolically distributed GFP-fused enzyme, which was frequently observed. The diffuse cytosolic signal was therefore not imaged in certain cases, due to down-regulation of the detector in the cLSM 510 META (Figure [F1], GapC2:GFP). The cytosolic aggregates of GapC:GFP seemed to vary with regard of their size, shape, and amount. A higher magnification resulted in a better resolution of the foci-like spots, showing their branched constitution in several cases (Figure [F1]B, magnified GapC2:GFP) and suggested that these fluorescent structures, formed by GapC:GFP isoforms, could be associated with certain organelles. Manifold localization patterns of the GAPDH isoforms. GFP- and CFP fusions of the two isoforms of GAPDH (GapC1 and GapC2) were transiently expressed in the protoplasts, isolated from leaves of 6-week-old plants of A. thaliana. (A) Superimposition of chlorophyll autofluorescence and locally accumulated GFP-fusions of the two isoforms. (B) GFP- and CFP-fluorescence from the GapC1 and GapC2 fusions, respectively. On the right hand side, magnifications are shown of relevant parts. (C) Colocalization of GFP-fused GapC1 and GapC2 with MitoTracker-stained mitochondria. (A–C). Pictures in the last lane present the magnified areas indicated in the overlays. Images in the YFP and MitoTracker channel were taken in the frame mode, both channels separately which caused a short time delay between the red and green channel, due to respective dichroic mirror settings. (D) Protoplasts were transformed with GapC1:GFP (green) and tdTomato:Fim1ABD2 (red). The fotos in the panels 2, 3, and 4 show the magnification of the boxed area in foto 1. All images were taken with the confocal Laser Scanning Microscope LSM 510 META, Zeiss. Interestingly, the presence of At1g13440- and At3g04120-encoded GapC in the secretory pathways was predicted using the ARAMEMNON database (data not shown) and was reported by Santoni et al. ([B61]) and Marmagne et al. ([B44]), who both identified GapC in the PM protein fraction from Arabidopsis. In addition to PM, vacuole, endoplasmic reticulum (ER), and the Golgi apparatus constitute the major components of the plant secretory system (Brandizzi et al., [B9]). In this context, the fraction of manifold, small GapC:GFP foci, resembling plant Golgi apparatus, was tested for colocalization with Golgi stacks using a chimera of the mCherry protein with a transmembrane domain of a rat α-2,6 sialyl-transferase (Saint-Jore et al., [B59]). However, no colocalization of signals emitted by GapC:GFP foci and by the Golgi apparatus could be detected (data not shown). GapC-organelle association was then tested with the mitochondria dye MitoTracker® Orange. Fluorescence-intensity profiles of the signals emitted by both GFP-fusion GapC and MitoTracker® Orange enabled a colocalization analysis, which indicated that some of the smaller foci of GapC:GFP were associated with mitochondria (Figure [F1]C; Figures [FA1] and [FA2] in Appendix), whereas the bigger branched structures were never close to these organelles (data not shown). GapC isoforms can also form cytoplasmic strands when expressed transiently as CFP fusions that might be correlated with cytoskeleton (Figure [F1]B, lower pictures, Figure [FA3] in Appendix). When fluorescent fusion of tdTomato with the actin-binding domain ABD2 of fimbrin (AtFim1) was applied for staining actin filaments, an additional peak for tdTomato, that appeared within the GFP-emission range, was noticed in protoplasts that were transiently expressing GapC1:GFP (Figure [F1]D; Figure [FA4] in Appendix). Therefore, the analysis of cytoskeletal association of GapC isoforms had to be modified. During microscopic imaging with cLSM 510 META it turned out that, by down-regulation of the detector, the bleeding-through artifacts could be removed, allowing visualization of the stronger GapC1:GFP foci only, with respect to the stained actin cytoskeleton. This approach enabled the observation of the punctuate signals emitted by GFP-fusion GapC, and showed that the clusters might move between actin fibrils, but their direct association with stained actin filaments was not obvious (Figure [F2]). Time-lapse images of GapC1:GFP aggregates with respect to the actin cytoskeleton. Time-lapse images of the GAPDH aggregates in relation to the actin cytoskeleton show GapC1:GFP aggregates moving along actin fibers (depicted with white frames). Images were taken after the indicated times. Actin filaments are stained with tdTomato:AtFim1 ABD2 (red). The GapC1:GFP foci are displayed in green. Scale bar: 10 μm. The images were taken with the Confocal Laser Scanning Microscope LSM 510 META, Zeiss. Identification of new interaction partners of GapC by a yeast two-hybrid screen of a cDNA library could elucidate its variable subcellular localization and novel “moonlighting” features, which have been suggested for the animal counterpart (for review see: Sirover, [B67], and Sirover, [B68]). Such approach might also help to reveal, why this cytosolic enzyme can localize to different subcellular structures, such as nucleus (Holtgrefe et al., [B29]), or possibly with the OMM, which has been recently observed (Giegé et al., [B22]; Graham et al., [B23]), and what we follow in this study. Here, a yeast two-hybrid screen of the cDNA library from A. thaliana was performed. Among 42 putative interaction partners of the GapC2, four cDNA coding for the voltage-dependent anion channel VDAC3 (At5g15090), a porin from the OMM, and 11 GapC clones could be identified. The presence of yeast colonies expressing GapC1 and GapC2 protein on SD/QDO/X-α-Gal is a hint to suggest positive, but weaker interactions between subunits of different GapC isoforms, which form not only homo-, but also heterooligomers. A yeast two-hybrid screen with GapC1 as bait protein revealed 16 protein–protein interaction partners of this isoform. Among them, 13 sequences were full-length clones encoding VDAC3 (At5g15090). Both isoforms, GapC1 and GapC2, and VDAC3 were applied in an additional set of “one-on-one” yeast two-hybrid assays, in order to retest the specificity of these associations. The colonies containing hybrid GapC isoforms fused with the GAL4-BD domain, and VDAC3 fused with the GAL4-AD domain grew under high-stringency conditions, confirming the positive interaction found in the yeast two-hybrid screen (Figure [F3]). With help of control vectors, it was surprisingly shown that autoactivation of all reporter genes took place in the case of VDAC3-AD (expressed from the pACT2 or pGADT7 vector), cotransfected with an empty vector pGBKT7 or pGBKT7-LamC. The appropriate yeast colonies grew on SD/TDO and additionally on SD/QDO/X-α-Gal. This unspecific autoactivation of reporter genes seemed to be a property of VDAC3-AD, which was not the case for the VDAC3-BD, expressed from pGBKT7 under a truncated ADH1 promoter (Figure [F3]). However, it also did not interact with any of the GapC isoforms. The initially identified VDAC3-AD and GapC-BD interaction could therefore not be confirmed, due to the autoactivating property of VDAC3-AD. Excluding the effect of autoactivation by only using VDAC3 as a bait, the interaction with aldolase was also tested. Surprisingly, only a weak interaction of aldolase with itself when forming an homooligomer was found. Its interactions with GapC1 and 2, or with VDAC3 were negative in this assay (data not shown). Yeast 2-hybrid “one-on-one” assays between GapC isoforms, aldolase, and VDAC3. Putatively positive interactions had been identified in the yeast two-hybrid screen of the cDNA library from A. thaliana. Here, to retest these findings, the haploid yeast strain AH109 was cotransformed with constructs, expressing bait, or prey proteins, as indicated in the table. Serial dilution of the appropriate overnight yeast culture was dropped onto selective media to demonstrate the stringency of binding between proteins. Colonies growing on SD/Leu−, Trp− were successfully transformed with both vectors, encoding the investigated proteins. Growth on SD/TDO and SD/QDO/X-α-Gal is a sign of positive interactions. Italics indicate false positive results due to autoactivation by VDAC3 when used as a prey. Split YFP fusions of GapC isoforms and VDAC3 were expressed in Arabidopsis protoplasts, with the aim to verify their putatively direct interaction in planta, which was found in the yeast two-hybrid screen, but appeared to be false positive in the “one-on-one assay” (Figure [F3]). In both combinations of YFP fusions, fluorescent signals could be detected in protoplasts. Some of the fluorescent foci were colocalized with mitochondria (Figure [F4]A), but other observed signals, reflecting interaction between GapC and porin, did not overlap with the organelles stained with MitoTracker® Orange (Figure [F4]B), which was also the case for GapC:GFP (Figure [F1], Figures [FA1] and [FA2] in Appendix). Colocalization of aldolase (FBA6) and GapC with mitochondria. Vectors encoding the investigated proteins were cotransformed in protoplasts, isolated from leaves of A. thaliana plants. The fluorescent signals from GapC1 interacting with VDAC3 (A,B), FBA6, and VDAC3 (C), as well as FBA6 with GapC1 or GapC2 (D,E), fused with N- or C-terminal halves of YFP, respectively, were tested for mitochondrial localization by staining the cells with 50 nM MitoTracker® Orange CMTMRos (Molecular Probes). Previous screening of the cDNA library from hypoxic seedlings of Zea mays, as well as a dot-blot overlay assay had demonstrated binding of the cytosolic isoform of maize fructose 1,6-bisphosphate aldolase to the mitochondrial porin, VDAC1a (Holtgräwe et al., [B28]). It was therefore tempting to look also at this interaction in vivo, in Arabidopsis protoplasts, that enabled the expression of aldolase fused to the N-terminal (FBA:YFPN), and VDAC3 fused to the C-terminal half of the YFP (VDAC3:YFPC). Indeed, fluorescent signals occurred in a locally accumulated form. Additional staining of mitochondria confirmed the location of the fluorescent foci next to these organelles (Figure [F4]C). No signals were observed, however, when vectors encoding aldolase fused to the C-terminal (FBA:YFPC), and VDAC3 fused to the N-terminal half of the YFP (VDAC3:YFPN) were used. Therefore, sterical factors may determine whether the direct binding of aldolase to VDAC3 can occur. This localization pattern was not detected in the negative controls (Figure [FA5] in Appendix). When an empty pUC-SPYNE vector and GapC1, GapC2, or FBA6, fused to the C-terminal halves of the YFP, were used, positive BiFC signals that were homogeneously distributed in the cytoplasm or even localized in the nucleus, were surprisingly found in several protoplasts. An identical, cytosolic localization pattern was observed also in the Arabidopsis protoplasts expressing split YFP-fused GapC1 and/or GapC2, reflecting the homo- and heterooligomerization of its subunits, respectively (data not shown). Beside this cytosolic compartmentation, FBA6 and GapC interacted also in a locally accumulated way, in some cases close to the stained mitochondria (Figures [F4]D,E), which correlated with the microscopic observations regarding potential mitochondrial association of GapC:GFP (Figures [F1] and [F2]; Figure [FA1] in Appendix). With respect to the negative controls that were false positive, the cytosolic, YFP-like fluorescent signals are not easily distinguishable from the false positive interaction. These putatively positive results may be unspecific and the homogeneous distribution of interacting glycolytic enzymes could be artifactual. The irreversible nature of the association between the two YFP fragments, especially when they are overexpressed or documented after a longer period of the transient expression, namely over 24 h, may be the reason for the false positive signals (Zhong et al., [B92]). From the above described experimental approaches that are frequently used to study protein–protein interactions, no uniform picture could be drawn as to the in vivo binding of soluble glycolytic enzymes to cellular structures. This is probably due to the fact that the cellular state and the actual microenvironment of the interacting partners cannot easily be controlled. Unknown cellular factors, such as posttranslational modifications, another protein required for this interaction or a redox-signal coming from the mitochondrial matrix or from the chloroplasts could play a crucial role for all observations made in in vivo systems such as isolated protoplasts, or in yeast cells where the tested interactions take place in the nucleus. In order to study the redox-dependence of the observed interactions under defined conditions, various in vitro assays were performed with the purified recombinant proteins. Incubation of F-actin with recombinant plant aldolase and GapC1 under reducing conditions and subsequent centrifugation resulted in a pellet fraction containing only actin and no glycolytic enzymes as can be seen from the SDS-PAGE analysis after ultracentrifugation (Figure [F5], control). In contrast, incubation under various different oxidizing conditions resulted in the appearance of a certain portion of GapC and/or aldolase in the pellet fractions, diamide and GSSG treatment yielding mainly aldolase in the pellet, while GSNO resulted in GapC associating with F-actin. Subsequent reduction of an aliquot reversed the binding completely (Figure [F5]). Both, aldolase and GapC were also added separately to the F-actin preparation, yielding the same results as were obtained with both enzymes present simultaneously (data not shown). Co-sedimentation assay with F-actin, GAPDH, and aldolase under oxidizing and reducing conditions. Samples with rabbit F-actin, FBA6, and GapC1 were first oxidized with the specific redox reagents(A) Diamide + GSH (each 0.5 mM); (B) GSSG (5 mM);(C) H2O2 + GSH (each 0.5 mM); (D) GSNO (0.5 mM) with a following reduction by DTTred (10 mM). The control sample with F-actin, FBA6, and GapC1 was only incubated with DTTred (10 mM). The mixtures were then centrifugated at 100,000 × g for 1 h. Supernatant (S) and pellet (P) were separated for analysis by SDS-PAGE and the gels were stained with Coomassie Brilliant blue. Bundle-like structures, formed by stained rabbit F-actin, were detected only under oxidizing conditions in the simultaneous presence of the glycolytic enzymes (Figure [F6], left column), or of each of the enzymes alone (data not shown). The bundle structures disappeared when the sample was reduced subsequently with DTT (Figure [F6], right column). When the enzymes were added in the presence of DTT, the same picture was apparent as with subsequent reduction of the previously oxidized sample (data not shown). In case, when only DTT was present without any enzymes added, there was no formation of bundles visible either (data not shown). In a control experiment, no glycolytic enzyme, but BSA was present instead, both under oxidizing and subsequent reducing conditions, and no bundle structures were visible under both conditions (Figure [F6], lowest row). Although in these experiments it is not possible to detect any bound proteins, the bundling activity of the glycolytic enzymes became apparent, due to the changed appearance of the actin structure, as visualized by microscopy. Taken together, these experiments indicate that the glycolytic enzymes might act as bundling agents, but in a reversible manner only under oxidizing conditions. Effect of redox-state on F-actin bundling activity of GapC and aldolase. Samples with rabbit F-actin, aldolase, and GapC1 were first oxidized with the specific redox reagents: diamide + GSH (each 0.5 mM); GSSG (5 mM); H2O2 + GSH (each 0.5 mM); GSNO (0.5 mM) followed by a reduction step with DTTred (10 mM). Subsequently, the samples were stained with rhodamine-labeled phalloidin (70 nM) and fluorescence was visualized by cLSM. The control experiment represents an incubation of F-actin with BSA incubated with diamide + GSH, and the subsequent reduction with DTT. Scale bar: 10 μm. Redox-dependent binding of aldolase to F-actin, G-actin, and GapC1 under oxidizing conditions as observed in the co-sedimentation assays (Figure [F5]) was confirmed by the dot-blot overlay assay. Under all oxidizing conditions, a positive reaction was observed except with BSA that was used as a negative control. In the final immunodecoration any aldolase that had bound to a spotted protein could be detected (Figure [F7]). Glutathionylation, as well as nitrosylation resulted in binding of aldolase to F-actin, but also to GapC with a similar affinity. The interaction between G-actin and the modified FBA6 was much weaker than with the filamentous protein. Reduction prevented any binding of the added aldolase, only the formation of a homomeric oligomer of aldolase took place also under reducing conditions as apparent after immunostaining (Figure [F7]A, left lane). Analysis redox-dependent binding of aldolase to GAPDH, actin and VDAC3 by Far Western blotting. (A) Aldolase (FBA6; At2g36460), GAPDH (GapC1; At3g04120), G-actin, rabbit F-actin, and bovine serum albumin (BSA) as negative control (2 μg each) were applied onto a nitrocellulose membrane, overlaid with 100 μg/ml aldolase in the presence of 10 mM DTT, 0.1 mM GSNO, 5 mM GSSG, 1 mM diamide plus, 1 mM GSH, or 0.5 mM H2O2 plus 0.5 mM GSH, and probed with polyclonal antibody against maize aldolase as described in Section [s1]. (B) VDAC3 (At5g15090) reconstituted into liposomes was applied onto a nitrocellulose membrane, overlaid with 100 μg/ml aldolase in the presence of 10 mM DTT and without reductant (oxidized). Empty liposomes and TOM40 were used as controls, immunological detection of bound aldolase was as in (A). (C). GapC and BSA as a control were applied to the membrane, which was overlaid with VDAC3 in liposomes. Detection was with anti-VDAC1 serum and the HRP-conjugated second antiserum using ECL as a substrate as described in Section [s1]. The regulation of the direct binding of FBA6 and GapC to VDAC3 found in protoplasts was verified by means of a dot-blot overlay approach. Under oxidizing conditions the binding of aldolase to VDAC3 could be detected by immunodecoration with antibody against aldolase (Figure [F7]B). Similarly, a positive signal was also observed when oxidized GapC was overlaid with VDAC3 and immunodecorated with anti-VDAC antibody (Figure [F7]C). These positive reactions were not observed with the empty liposomes and TOM40 or with BSA, which were used as negative controls in this assay. Reduction prevented any binding of the glycolytic enzymes to the porin. There is evidence from earlier work on the animal model that actin-binding sites contain amino-acid motifs with clustered charged residues, namely Asp and Glu, as well as Lys and Arg (Forlemu et al., [B18]). It is obvious from the comparison with the animal counterparts that the positions of the positively and negatively charged residues on the surface of the proteins, which are implicated to be involved in the binding, are rather conserved, as are these proteins altogether (Figure [F8]). From the side view that is depicted to demonstrate the relative positions of these charged residues, it is not possible to locate surface Cys residues that have been shown to be subject to redox-modifications. However, it can be imagined that even distant molecular changes upon redox-modification of these residues can allosterically affect the binding sites by changing the charge distribution in the critical surface area. Homology modeling of 3D-structures of aldolase, GAPDH, and actin. On the left hand side, the proteins from rabbit as used by Forlemu et al. ([B18]) are shown. The corresponding Arabidopsis proteins on the right hand side were modeled with SWISS-MODEL as described in Section [s1]. By using the Swiss-Pdb Viewer 4.0.4, the molecular surface of the generated protein models was calculated and the conserved amino acids which are necessary for the protein–protein interaction are colored: Positively charged amino acids are blue, negatively charged amino acids are red. Cysteines are shown in yellow.
!~MM~! Mesophyll protoplasts isolated from of A. thaliana plants (ecotype Columbia) were used for in vivo labeling of the subcellular structures and organelles, such as Golgi apparatus, nucleus, actin cytoskeleton, and mitochondria, as well as visualization of subcellular localization of proteins fused to CFP, GFP, or YFP. Protoplasts were isolated from leaves of 5- to 6-week-old wild-type A. thaliana plants, according to Seidel et al. ([B65]), with some modifications (Voss et al., [B80]). The glycolytic enzymes were expressed in Arabidopsis protoplasts from the pGFP-2 vector as a C-terminal fusion with the Green Fluorescent Protein (pGFP GapC1 and pGFP GapC2), under control of the constitutive CaMV 35S promoter (Kost et al., [B40]). Similar experiments were carried out with vectors encoding GapC isoforms as CFP fusions, based on the p-35S-CFP-NosT vector, which was kindly provided by Thorsten Seidel (University of Bielefeld, Germany). A chimera of the mCherry protein with a transmembrane domain of a rat α-2,6-sialyl-transferase, which is a mammalian, Golgi-targeted glycosylation enzyme (Saint-Jore et al., [B59]), was used in order to visualize Golgi apparatus in the plant cell. This construct was obtained from Ekkehard Neuhaus (TU Kaiserslautern, Germany). Visualization of actin microfilaments in plant cells was performed using a vector encoding tdTomato: AtFim1 ABD2, kindly provided by Takumi Higaki (University of Tokyo, Japan; Sano et al., [B60]). It consists of the second actin-binding domain (ABD2) of the fimbrin-like protein from A. thaliana (AtFim1), fused with tdTomato (Shaner et al., [B66]). Plant mitochondria were visualized by staining mesophyll protoplasts with the MitoTracker® Orange CMTMRos (Molecular Probes/Invitrogen, Karlsruhe, Germany). The protein–protein interactions between the glycolytic enzymes, GapC and aldolase, with VDAC3, were investigated by means of the BiFC technique (BiFC or split YFP; Hu et al., [B30]). Appropriate vectors, pUC-SPYNE and pUC-SPYCE (Walter et al., [B83]) obtained from Prof. Jörg Kudla (University of Muenster), were used to design constructs expressing the respective proteins. Fusions of aldolase (FBA6, At2g36460), VDAC3 (At5g15090), or GapC1 and GapC2 with the N-terminal or the C-terminal half of the YFP are described as X:YFPN or X:YFPC, respectively. Combination of plasmids, pUC-SPYNE-bZip63 and pUC-SPYCE-bZip63, coding for an YFP-fusion with the transcription factor bZip63, was used as a positive control in the BiFC assay. Homodimerization of this protein was already demonstrated to occur in the plant nucleus (Walter et al., [B83]). The transiently transformed protoplasts incubated between 8 and 16 h, were stained with 50 nM MitoTracker® Orange CMTMRos for 15 min at RT, in the dark, prior to imaging. Afterwards, the sample was centrifuged for 1 min at 100 × g, and the resulting pellet was resuspended with 1 ml W5 solution. The plant cells were immediately observed using the cLSM 510 META (Carl Zeiss, Göttingen, Germany). CFP and autofluorescence of chlorophyll were visualized with excitation at 458 nm and emission at 480–520 and 650–710 nm, respectively. GFP and autofluorescence of chlorophyll were visualized with excitation at 488 nm and emission at 500–530 nm and 650–710 nm, respectively. YFP and autofluorescence of chlorophyll were visualized with excitation at 514 nm and emission at 535–590 nm and 650–704 nm (detected with META Detector), respectively. When observed with stained mitochondria, GFP and autofluorescence of chlorophyll were visualized with excitation at 488 nm and emission at 500–530 nm and 650–704 nm, respectively, whereas MitoTracker® Orange was excited with 543 nm and emitted at 565–615 nm. The same settings were used for the combination with GFP, when actin cytoskeleton was additionally visualized. In case, when YFP was expressed in Arabidopsis protoplasts along with stained mitochondria, YFP was visualized with excitation at 514 nm and emission at 522–533 nm, whereas MitoTracker® Orange was excited with 543 nm and emitted at 565–597 nm, both detected with META Detector, respectively. The two isoforms of GAPDH from A. thaliana (GapC1, At3g04120) and GapC2, At1g13440) were applied as baits in the two-hybrid screen of the cDNA library for positive protein–protein interactions, according to Kolonin et al. ([B39]) with small modifications. The cDNA library from A. thaliana suspension cell culture was obtained from Prof. Koncz, University of Bonn (Nemeth et al., [B51]). Screens were performed according to manufacturer’s instructions (The Matchmaker Two-Hybrid Library Construction and Screening Kit, Clontech). As further confirmation of the interactions found in the DNA-library screen, the putatively positive interactions were tested in a “one-on-one” assay. For this aim, the haploid AH109 strain provides all needed reporter genes (HIS3, ADE2, MEL1), so that it could be cotransformed with both vectors encoding the investigated bait and prey proteins. The positively transformed yeast colonies, with two replicates in each case, were tested for activation of the reporter genes ADE2, HIS3, MEL1 by “drop test” on selective media lacking tryptophane, leucine, and histidine (SD/TDO). For strong protein–protein interaction, medium was additionally lacking adenine (SD/QDO/X-α-Gal). In case of control experiments, yeast cells were transformed with a combination of the investigated partner and empty bait (pGBKT7) or prey vector (pGADT7). Since plant and animal actin are highly conserved in sequence (88% identity), co-sedimentation experiments were performed with commercially available rabbit muscle actin (>99% pure) that was purchased from Cytoskeleton (Denver, CO, USA). Actin was purified by a polymerization/depolymerization cycle prior to usage. In order to exclude the possibility to capture soluble enzymes during polymerization without specific binding, the polymerization step was performed prior to the addition of the soluble enzymes. G-actin was prepared in low-salt buffer (LSB; 5 mM Tris-HCl pH 7.6, 0.2 mM CaCl2, 0.2 mM ATP, 0.15 mM NAD) by incubation of rabbit muscle actin for 30 min on ice, buffer change over Pierce Desalting Spin Columns (Rockford, USA) and ultracentrifugation at 100,000 × g for 1 h at 4°C. G-actin was polymerized upon addition of 1x polymerization inducer [PI; 50x stock: 250 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.6), 100 mM MgCl2, 50 mM ATP, 7.5 mM NAD, 2 M KCl] at a protein concentration of 0.4 mg/ml in LSB. Aldolase (FBA6, At2g36460) GAPDH (GapC1; At3g04120), and BSA (negative control) were also adjusted to a protein concentration of 0.4 mg/ml with 1x assay buffer [50x stock: 250 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.6), 100 mM MgCl2, 50 mM ATP, 7.5 mM NAD]. F-actin and the glycolytic protein/s were mixed with a 1:1 ratio on a protein basis, and redox reagents (final concentrations: diamide + GSH: each 1 mM, GSSG: 5 mM, GSNO: 0.5 mM, H2O2 + GSH: each 0.5 mM) were added. The mixtures were incubated at 22°C for 30 min. Then DTTred (final concentration 10 mM) was added to one part of the mixtures, followed by incubation for 5 min at 22°C. Then supernatant and pellet were separated by ultracentrifugation at 100,000 × g for 1 h at 22°C. Both fractions were analyzed by SDS-PAGE (10%) and subsequent staining of the gels with Coomassie Brilliant Blue R. Samples of F-actin together with GapC1, aldolase, or both enzymes were prepared as described for the co-sedimentation assay. Then DTTred (10 mM final concentration) was added to the mixtures for another incubation at 22°C for 5 min and stained with phalloidin labeled with tetramethylrhodamine B isothiocyanate (Sigma-Aldrich; final concentration 70 nM). Fluorescence was visualized by cLSM (510 META, Zeiss, Jena, Germany) using the Plan-Apochromat 63x/1,4 Oil DIC objective. Picture calculation and processing were done with the LSM Image Browser (Zeiss, Jena, Germany). Overlay dot-blot analyses were performed with recombinant GAPDH; GapC1, At3g04120, VDAC3 (At5g150910) reconstituted into liposomes, purified F-actin, G-actin (from rabbit muscle, Sigma-Aldrich), and BSA as a negative control. In the case of VDAC3, TOM40, and empty liposomes were used as negative controls. The proteins (each 2 μg) were dripped onto nitrocellulose membranes and air-dried. The membranes were blocked with 6% BSA in TBS-T (50 mM Tris-HCl, 150 mM NaCl, and 0.2% Tween 20, pH 8) for 1 h and washed. Membranes were then incubated with 100 μg/ml recombinant cytosolic fructose 1,6-bisphosphate aldolase (FBA6, At2g36460) in the presence of 10 mM DTT, 0.1 mM GSNO, 5 mM GSSG, 1 mM diamide plus 1 mM GSH or 0.5 mM H2O2 plus 0.5 mM GSH, or VDAC3 in liposomes, respectively, for 1 h at room temperature and finally washed. For cross-linking, the membranes were treated with 0.115% glutaraldehyde in 20 mM HEPES buffer (pH 7.5) for 5 min at 37°C and washed (Migneault et al., [B47]). Immunodetection was achieved with polyclonal antibody against maize aldolase (1:10,000) or against VDAC1 (1:5000, Agrisera, Sweden) for 1 h at room temperature and color development using goat anti-rabbit IgG conjugated with alkaline phosphatase (1:5000; BioRad, Munich) using BCIP/NBT as substrates, or the second antiserum conjugated with horseradish peroxidase (1:3000, BioRad, Munich) using ECL (iNtRON Biotechnol., Korea) as substrate. For the dot-blot analyses, VDAC3 was synthesized in a cell-free system (RTSTM 100 Wheat Germ CECF, 5PRIME, Hamburg, Germany) and separated from the reaction mix via reconstitution into liposomes in the presence of 80 mM nonanoyl-N-methylglucamide (MEGA 9). The reconstitution of VDAC3 into liposomes was verified by a Nycodenz® density gradient flotation assay of the proteoliposomes. The dot-blot assay was performed as described above in the presence and the absence of 10 mM DTT. The three-dimensional structures of the proteins were generated using the homology modeling mode of the SWISS-model workspace (Bordoli et al., [B8]). The template structures for the homology modeling of the A. thaliana proteins were selected in accordance with the protein structures which were used by Forlemu et al. ([B18]). For the comparison of the amino acids which were identified by Forlemu et al. ([B18]) and Ouporov et al. ([B53]) to be involved in the ionic interaction, a multiple sequence alignment was performed.
