!~ABS~! Transient and stable expression of transgenes is central to many investigations in plant biology research. Chemical regulation of expression can circumvent problems of plant lethality caused by constitutive overexpression or allow inducible knock (out/down) approaches. Several chemically inducible or repressible systems have been described and successfully applied. However, cloning and application-specific modification of most available inducible expression systems have been limited and remained complicated due to restricted cloning options. Here we describe a new set of 57 vectors that enable transgene expression in transiently or stably transformed cells. All vectors harbor a synthetically optimized XVE expression cassette, allowing β-estradiol mediated protein expression. Plasmids are equipped with the reporter genes GUS, GFP, mCherry, or with HA and StrepII epitope tags and harbor an optimized multiple cloning site for flexible and simple cloning strategies. Moreover, the vector design allows simple substitution of the driving promoter to achieve tissue-specificity or to modulate expression ranges of inducible transgene expression. We report details of the kinetics and dose-dependence of expression induction in Arabidopsis leaf mesophyll protoplasts, transiently transformed Nicotiana benthamiana leaves, and stably transformed Arabidopsis plants. Using these vectors, we investigated the influence of CBL (Calcineurin B-like) protein expression on the subcellular localization of CIPKs (Calcineurin B-like interacting protein kinases). These analyses uncovered that induced co-expression of CBL3 is fully sufficient for dynamic translocation of CIPK5 from the cytoplasm to the tonoplast. Thus, the vector system presented here facilitates a broad range of research applications.
!~RES~! To develop a user-friendly, chemically inducible vector system for transient and stable plant transformation, we first attempted to optimize the existing β-estradiol-responsive regulatory elements of the pER8 plasmid ( [bib42] ). To this end, the reading frame of the XVE fusion protein and the 3’UTR/terminator pea rbcS E9 region of the original pER8 vector were redesigned and in vitro synthesized. The original XVE reading frame contained 14 restriction sites which are generally used for cloning strategies to insert genes of interest into MCSs, while the optimized sequence now contains only two Nde I sites. Moreover, the codon usage of these sequences was optimized for expression in Arabidopsis . In addition, new restriction sites were included to allow simple replacement of the promoter, terminator, and the reading frame between promoter and terminator if required. Consequently, in the newly designed synthetic XVE sequence (designated as sXVE), 392 nucleotides were replaced, resulting in an overall 72% similarity between the original and synthetic reading frames. To optimize the original constitutive G10-90 driver promoter, which controls the expression of the XVE protein in the pER8 plasmid, this promoter was also newly synthesized (sG10-90). Here, only 10 nucleotides were replaced to remove three Bam HI sites, two Hin dIII sites, as well as single Eco RV, Hpa I, Sph I, and Xba I sites. Unfortunately, our later studies revealed that these changes resulted in a less active promoter that exhibited only 20% of the expression level of the original G10-90 driver promoter in transient in planta expression studies (data not shown). Consequently, in our further studies, the G10-90 promoter was substituted by two alternative constitutive promoters. As the first constitutive promoter (designated as P16), we chose a 473 bp region of the At RPL37aC gene promoter (AT3G60245) from Arabidopsis . Publicly available expression data indicated strong and constitutive expression in all tissues and it has been successfully used for constitutive expression of a GUS reporter gene (S. Andersen and J. Lohmann, personal communication). In this promoter, we exchanged one nucleotide to remove an internal Sac I restriction site, resulting in a promoter designated as P16ΔS. As a driving promoter for particularly strong inducible expression, especially in roots, we chose the SUPER-promoter ( [bib24] ). Again, we manipulated this nucleotide sequence to avoid internal Bam HI sites resulting in a promoter designated as SUPERR-promoter. The expression cassettes encompassing the complete coding regions of the driving promoters to the 35S-minimal promoter were cloned into pGPTVII:GFP C :Bar, pGPTVII:GFP C :Kan and pGPTVII:GFP C :Hyg plasmids, respectively ( [fig1] and [sec1] ) ( [bib35] ). This gave rise to plant transformation vectors that combined the complete β-estradiol-inducible expression elements with an MCS upstream of a GFP reading frame and a Nos-terminator for expression of C-terminally GFP-tagged fusion proteins. These plasmids were designated as P16ΔS:sXVE:GFP C :Bar, P16ΔS:sXVE:GFP C :Kan, P16ΔS:sXVE:GFP C :Hyg, SUPERR:sXVE:GFP C :Bar, SUPERR:sXVE: GFP C :Kan, and SUPERR:sXVE:GFP C :Hyg. To allow cloning of N-terminally tagged proteins, we generated P16ΔS:sXVE:GFP N :Bar, P16ΔS:sXVE:GFP N :Kan, P16ΔS:sXVE: GFP N :Hyg, SUPERR:sXVE:GFP N :Bar, SUPERR:sXVE:GFP N :Kan, and SUPERR:sXVE:GFP N :Hyg ( [fig1] and [sec1] ). This set of plasmids provides the choice for plant selection by Basta, Kanamycin or Hygromycin resistance, respectively. The same strategy was used for generating plasmids containing mCherry C- or N-terminal of the MCS or GUS in a pGPTVII:Bar backbone designated as P16ΔS:sXVE:mCherry C :Bar, P16ΔS:sXVE:mCherry N :Bar, SUPERR:sXVE:mCherry C :Bar, and SUPERR:sXVE:mCherry N :Bar or P16ΔS:sXVE:GUS:Bar and SUPERR:sXVE:GUS:Bar ( [fig1] and [sec1] ). In order to generate plant transformation plasmids that allow for monitoring of transgene expression by detecting these proteins with StrepII or HA epitope tags, we cloned the inducible expression cassette into pGPTVII vector backbones resulting in plasmids named P16ΔS:sXVE:StrepII C :Bar, P16ΔS:sXVE:StrepII N :Bar, P16ΔS:sXVE:HA C :Bar, P16ΔS:sXVE: HA N :Bar, SUPERR:sXVE:StrepII C :Bar, SUPERR:sXVE:StrepII N :Bar, SUPERR:sXVE:HA C :Bar, and SUPERR:sXVE:HA N :Bar ( [fig1] and [sec1] ). For efficient protoplast transformation, the use of small plasmid backbones and high copy number plasmids that provide large amounts of DNA after purification from Escherichia coli is desirable. Therefore, pUC18-based plasmids for inducible transient protoplast transformation were generated. To this end, GFP-, mCherry-, and GUS-expressing vectors were generated in the pUC18 plasmid backbones. This resulted in the formation of the plasmids P16ΔS:sXVE:GFP C :pUC, P16ΔS:sXVE:GFP N :pUC, SUPERR:sXVE:GFP C :pUC, SUPERR:sXVE:GFP N :pUC, P16ΔS:sXVE: mCherry C :pUC, P16ΔS:sXVE:mCherry N :pUC, SUPERR:sXVE: mCherry C :pUC, SUPERR:sXVE:mCherry N :pUC, P16ΔS:sXVE:GUS: pUC, and SUPERR:sXVE:GUS:pUC ( [fig1] and [sec1] ). A similar strategy was used to generate protoplast transformation plasmids that express StrepII or HA epitope-tagged proteins. These plasmids were designated P16ΔS:sXVE: StrepII C :pUC, P16ΔS:sXVE:StrepII N :pUC, SUPERR:sXVE: StrepII C :pUC, SUPERR:sXVE:StrepII N :pUC, P16ΔS:sXVE:HA C :pUC, P16ΔS:sXVE:HA N :pUC, SUPERR:sXVE:HA C :pUC, and SUPERR:sXVE:HA N :pUC ( [fig1] and [sec1] ). [fig1] represents a schematic overview of the expression cassettes available in pGPTVII:Bar and pUC18 vector backbones and a detailed listing of all generated plasmids is provided in [sec1] . Accession numbers of sequences of the inducible expression cassettes can be found in [sec1] . The sXVE vector system is designed for transient as well as stable transformation purposes. Therefore, we first tested the transient inducibility of pGPTVII constructs harboring expression cassettes under control of the P16ΔS and SUPERR promoters, upon application of different β-estradiol concentrations. To this end, GFP as well as mCherry were used as model proteins to define the optimal hormone concentration leading to an appropriate induction and reporter gene expression. Leaves of N. benthamiana plants were transformed with Agrobacteria containing P16ΔS:sXVE:GFP C , SUPERR:sXVE:GFP C , P16ΔS:sXVE:mCherry C , or SUPERR:sXVE:mCherry C plasmids, respectively. One day after infiltration, expression was induced by painting the abaxial sides of the leaves with 0.01 μM, 0.1 μM, 1 μM, 10 μM, 50 μM, and 100 μM β-estradiol. Mock-treated control leaves were painted with a solution of 0.1% ethanol (the β-estradiol solvent) in water. Samples were analyzed by fluorescence microscopy 3 d after induction ( [fig2] and [sec1] ). Without application of β-estradiol, no GFP or mCherry fluorescence was detectable in all samples analyzed, indicating that both the P16ΔS promoter- as well as the SUPERR-promoter-driven expression systems do not bring about background expression levels in N. benthamiana . Upon application of 1 μM hormone, GFP fluorescence became visible, although the intensity of fluorescence was not evenly distributed within the leaf area ( [fig2] ). The observed fluorescence intensity correlated with increasing concentrations of the applied inducer. Upon application of 50 μM or 100 μM β-estradiol, strong and evenly distributed fluorescence was observed. The intensity of fluorescence appeared to be similar at both concentrations, indicating that the induction system was already saturated at concentrations of 50 μM β-estradiol. The gradual increments of expression induction with increasing β-estradiol concentrations implement a tight regulation of reporter protein expression. Although the overall fluorescence patterns were similar comparing P16ΔS- and SUPERR-driven expression, there was a difference in visible fluorescence intensity, which can be ascribed to the different activity strength of the promoters ( [fig2] ). After 3 d of induction, GFP fluorescence in the SUPERR:sXVE:GFP C -infiltrated leaves reproducibly appeared to be brighter than in P16ΔS:sXVE:GFP C -infiltrated tissues. A very similar expression pattern was observed when P16ΔS:sXVE:mCherry C and SUPERR:sXVE:mCherry C constructs were expressed ( [sec1] ). To analyze gene expression at the protein level, we extrac ted proteins from infiltrated leaves, performed Western blotting and subsequent immunodetection with GFP and RFP-specific antibodies ( [fig2] and [sec1] ). Equal loading of proteins was verified by staining the membranes with Coomassie Brilliant Blue ( [sec1] ). This confirmed a strong induction of GFP expression upon application of at least 50 μM β-estradiol. Longer exposure times of the membranes allowed also the detection of the GFP protein in samples treated with lower concentrations of β-estradiol but led to an extreme overexposure of the bands at higher concentrations (data not shown). Similar results were obtained from immunodetection of mCherry proteins, where detection at lower β-estradiol concentrations was possible due to a lower maximal mCherry expression upon application of 100 μM ( [sec1] ). Together, these results confirm an effective and dose-dependent inducibility of the expression plasmids and suggest a stronger expression of the SUPERR-driven expression cassettes. For subsequent experiments in transiently transformed tobacco leaves, we decided to use the maximal concentration of 100 μM β-estradiol. This rather high concentration should guarantee a saturation of induction, thereby providing reproducible results and minimizing variations in the amount of β-estradiol caused by application with the paintbrush. Next, we sought to determine the temporal expression characteristics of SUPERR:sXVE:GFP C , P16ΔS:sXVE:GFP C , SUPERR:sXVE:mCherry C , and P16ΔS:sXVE:mCherry C in transiently transformed N. benthamiana leaves over a time course of 5 d. As before, plants were infiltrated and painted with 100 μM β-estradiol on the following day. As controls, mock-treated plants were analyzed and, for comparison, constitutively active promoter constructs (35S:GFP or 35S:mCherry) were infiltrated in parallel ( [fig3] and [sec1] ). GFP and mCherry expression was analyzed by fluorescence microscopy and immunodetection. Importantly, we did not observe significant protein expression in all mock-treated samples in both fluorescence and Western blot analyses for the GFP and mCherry samples in these experiments ( [fig3] and [sec1] ). This result supports the notion that these expression cassettes do not cause unwanted background expression in the absence of the chemical inducer. In transformed tissues expressing GFP or mCherry under control of the constitutive 35S promoter, fluorescence became readily detectable 2 d after infiltration (dpi), which corresponds to 1 d after induction (dpin) for the inducible constructs ( [fig3] and [sec1] ). Optical inspection of fluorescence did not indicate a further substantial increase in protein expression of 35S:GFP or 35S:mCherry. However, Western blot analyses of GFP and mCherry expression revealed a steady increase in protein amounts from 2 to 6 dpi. Expression of the inducible constructs resulted at the first and second days after induction in an unevenly distributed fluorescence throughout the leaf. During the following days, the expression intensity increased and the distribution of fluorescence became more consistent ( [fig3] and [sec1] ). Western blot analyses with GFP- or mCherry-specific antibodies confirmed the increase in expression of the proteins over time, with maximal expression at 5 dpin ( [fig3] and [sec1] ). Similarly to that described here for the inducible expression of GFP and RFP constructs, we also verified the functionality of our expression constructs that harbored the GUS reporter protein by analyses in transiently transformed N. benthamiana leaves (data not shown). In all cases, gene expression was well detectable 5 d after β-estradiol induction. Together, these results identify the β-estradiol-inducible expression vectors as superior expression systems for the generation of large amounts of recombinant proteins in transient in planta expression approaches. Constitutive overexpression of proteins whose enzymatic activity alters cellular homeostasis or signaling can often be difficult or even impossible to achieve. This holds especially true for ion channels that affect cellular ion concentrations, protein kinases that govern regulatory processes, or respiratory burst oxidase homolog proteins (RBOH) that generate reactive oxygen species (ROS). One such example is the expression of the NADPH oxidase RBOHF under control of the commonly used constitutive 35S promoter. Despite extensive optimization of transient expression protocols, including variation of amount and density of infiltrated Agrobacteria cultures and alterations of incubation periods, we at best achieved a faint detection of GFP:RBOHF fluorescence after transient expression in N. benthamiana leaves ( [fig4] ). Moreover, such fluorescence could only be observed in very few cells, making a judgment about the validity of the observed localization rather difficult. To exemplarily investigate the suitability of our β-estradiol-inducible vector systems for the expression and analyses of such problematic proteins, we cloned GFP:RBOHF fusion constructs into the published pER8 and the SUPERR:sXVE:GFP N plasmids ( [fig4] ). GFP fluorescence was monitored 4 d after Agrobacterium infiltration (corresponding to 3 d after induction). While GFP:RBOHF expression under the control of the constitutive 35S promoter was hardly detectable and required the application of maximal gain in microscopic inspections, both inducible expression systems permitted facile detection and analyses of GFP:RBOHF expression and localization, respectively ( [fig4] ). These results underscore the value of inducible protein expression for the investigation of problematic proteins in planta . Transient single or cotransformation of protoplasts is an advantageous and fast method that allows studying of diverse plant signaling mechanisms. Mesophyll protoplasts from Arabidopsis and other species are, compared to cell cultures, genetically more stable and do not need subculturing and sterility ( [bib32] ). Inducible expression of transgenes in protoplasts would allow for fine-tuning of protein concentrations by applying different β-estradiol concentrations and by using different incubation times. However, currently available inducible expression systems rely on rather large vectors that reduce transformation efficiency in these assays. To overcome this limitation, we have generated inducible expression plasmids in the small and well transformable pUC18 vector backbone ( [fig1] and [sec1] ). To investigate the functionality of the P16ΔS:sXVE:GFP C :pUC, SUPERR:sXVE:GFP C :pUC, P16ΔS:sXVE:mCherry C :pUC, and SUPERR:sXVE:mCherry C :pUC constructs, these plasmids were transiently transformed into Arabidopsis leaf mesophyll protoplasts. Induction of protein expression was performed 30min after transformation by addition of β-estradiol to the culture medium. We tested different β-estradiol concentrations and found that 5 μM turned out to be fully sufficient to induce expression within 15h ( [fig5] , [sec1] , and data not shown). Cells that were transformed either with constructs containing the SUPERR-promoter or with constructs harboring the P16ΔS-promoter showed well-detectable protein expression in response to β-estradiol induction in comparison to mock-treated cells ( [fig5] and [sec1] and [sec1] ). We reproducibly observed more intense fluorescence in cells that were transformed with plasmids containing the SUPERR-promoter as compared to cells possessing a P16ΔS-promoter. Transformation of protoplasts that expressed GFP or mCherry under control of the constitutively active 35S promoter served as a positive control in these experiments. Together, these results establish the functionality of the inducible vector system in studies that rely on protoplast transformation. Induced overexpression of proteins allows investigating their function in cases in which a constitutive expression is lethal or results in non-sufficient protein expression. Furthermore, application of different β-estradiol concentrations and analyses in a certain time range, respectively, allows fine-tuning of expression also for knockdown approaches. To further assay the functionality of our vector system, we generated stably transformed Arabidopsis plants by the Agrobacterium-mediated floral dip method ( [bib8] ). Transgenic plants were identified by selection on Basta containing medium and T 2 plants were further analyzed. To verify the expression patterns of the P16ΔS and the SUPERR promoters that were used as ‘driver promoters’ in our inducible vectors, both promoters were directly fused to the uidA reporter gene in pGPTVII–GUS plasmids and, after transformation and selection, the GUS-staining pattern of several T 2 lines were determined for both constructs ( [sec1] ). Despite the ubiquitous expression pattern that is indicated for the At RPL37aC gene in publicly available expression databases and despite a previously observed ubiquitous expression pattern of the P16-promoter when fused to the uidA reporter gene in alternative vector backbones (J. Lohmann, personal communication), we did not observe an even distribution of GUS activity in all P16ΔS:GUS plants analyzed. Instead, we observed enhanced GUS activity in vascular tissues and flowers of stably transformed Arabidopsis plants. GUS activity in leaves except vascular tissue and in roots was weak ( [sec1] ). We speculate that this expression pattern results from epigenetic interference of the pGPTVII plasmid backbone with the P16ΔS-promoter upon stable integration into the plant genome. In contrast, plants that expressed the uidA gene under control of the SUPERR-promoter exhibited stronger GUS activity in all areal tissues of the plants and very strong GUS activity in roots ( [sec1] ). To verify the functionality of inducible constructs, we stably transformed and analyzed Arabidopsis Col-0 plants with SUPERR:sXVE:mCherry C , SUPERR:sXVE:GUS, and P16ΔS:sXVE:GUS expression plasmids. Reporter gene expression was induced by transferring 10-day-old plants from 0.5 MS to 0.5 MS supplemented with 5 μM β-estradiol and gene expression was monitored 24h after induction. Mock treatments were performed by transferring plants to media without the hormone. In accordance with our analyses of the P16ΔS:GUS plants, we observed in plants carrying the P16ΔS:sXVE:GUS transgene some GUS activity in vascular tissues but this expression appeared to be weaker than in the constitutively expressing plants ( [fig6] ). No GUS staining was detected in the roots of these lines. In contrast, transgenic plants harboring SUPERR:sXVE:GUS showed upon β-estradiol induction a more ubiquitous promoter activity which was detectable in all green tissues of the plants and very strong in the roots ( [fig6] ). This pattern of expression reflected the GUS-staining pattern of SUPERR:GUS plants and indicates that the SUPERR:sXVE expression cassette is fully inducible in Arabidopsis plants. In general, we did not observe GUS staining in both the SUPERR:sXVE:GUS- and P16ΔS:sXVE:GUS-containing plant lines in the absence of β-estradiol induction ( [fig6] ). However, it should be noted that, in some SUPERR:sXVE:GUS lines, we observed a weak GUS background activity in leaves under non-treated conditions, that may result from some background activity of this promoter in the absence of β-estradiol or induction by as yet unidentified stimuli. We also analyzed SUPERR:sXVE:mCherry C plants and observed strong fluorescence in root tissue, endodermis, and also root hairs ( [fig6 fig6] ). In shoots, fluorescence was most prominent in guard cells ( [fig6] ). Together, these experiments establish the functionality of the β-estradiol-inducible vector systems in stably transformed Arabidopsis plants. The somewhat surprising tissue-specific pattern of P16ΔS-driven β-estradiol-induced transgene expression in transformed Arabidopsis plants prompted us to consider the use of an alternative, ubiquitously expressed promoter as a driving promoter for expression of the sXVE cassette. In previous studies, we had identified a 634 bp fragment (UBQ10) of the Arabidopsis Ubiquitin 10 gene as being sufficient to drive strong, constitutive, and stable expression of transgenes in stably transformed plants ( [bib17] ; [bib23] ). To enable the use of this promoter for driving β-estradiol-induced gene expression, we exchanged the driving promoter by the UBQ10 promoter in the pGPTVII-based expression cassettes and, in this way, generated 13 new plasmids. Maps of the expression cassettes of these constructs are depicted in [sec1] and a detailed description is provided in [sec1] . These plasmids allow the investigation of GFP-, mCherry-, GUS-, StrepII-, and HA-tagged proteins as N-terminal and C-terminal fusion proteins. For all tags, we generated Basta selectable plasmids and in addition for GFP we generated plasmids that allow transgene selection also by Kanamycin and Hygromycin. To investigate the functionality of these vectors, we transformed Arabidopsis plants with UBQ10:sXVE:GFP C and UBQ10:sXVE:mCherry C and T 1 plants were selected on media containing Basta. For each construct, at least 30 independent transgenic lines were selected and 7-day-old seedlings were transferred to media containing 5 μM β-estradiol. After 24h of induction, visual inspection revealed readily detectable GFP or mCherry fluorescence in at least 70% of the seedlings analyzed ( [fig7] and [sec1] ). To investigate the stability of transgene expression over a longer period of plant development, we randomly selected 15 lines and transferred them to soil. These plants were treated by spraying the lower side of the leaves with 100 μM β-estradiol at day 19 (before bolting) and at day 40 (flowering stage). Microscopic analyses 2 d after induction revealed readily detectable GFP and mCherry expression ( [fig7 fig7] , and [sec1] and [sec1] ). These results identify the UBQ10 promoter as a superior driving promoter for the β-estradiol-induced transgene expression in stably transformed plants. Moreover, these data suggest a high frequency of suitable expression levels in independent transgenic lines and confirm developmental stability of transgene expression. Specific interactions of Calcineurin B-like (CBL) proteins with members of the serine/threonine kinase family CBL-interacting protein kinases (CIPKs) have been intensively investigated in recent years ( [bib2] ). The resulting CBL–CIPK complexes play important roles in regulating various abiotic stress responses and especially ion transport processes at cellular membranes ( [bib10] ; [bib38] ; [bib22] ; [bib18] ; [bib12] ). Most CBL proteins are localized at different cellular membranes like the plasma membrane or the tonoplast, while CIPKs when expressed alone reside in the cytoplasm and nucleus ( [bib4] ). Previous studies reported that, upon specific interaction with a CIPK, the CBL recruits the cytosolic-localized CIPK to its target membrane ( [bib3] , [bib4] ). So far, all these studies relied on the use of BiFC interaction experiments. However, upon BiFC, the reconstituted YFP protein covalently forms the chromophore, thereby generating a non-dissociable complex. Therefore, previous studies could not address whether CBL-dependent CIPK membrane targeting efficiently occurs in the absence of artificial interaction stabilization. We sought to use our newly developed inducible vector set to address this important facet of regulation in the CBL–CIPK signaling network. To this end, we used the tonoplast-localized calcium sensor CBL3 and its interacting protein kinase CIPK5 as a model system. CIPK5 was fused to GFP under the control of the constitutive UBQ10 promoter and CBL3 was fused to mCherry in the inducible sXVE plasmid under P16ΔS control. Upon co-expression, this plasmid combination allows modulation of CBL3:mCherry expression while GFP:CIPK5 expression was constitutive. As a control, we co-transformed P16ΔS:sXVE:CBL3:mCherry with GFP only ( [fig8] ). Two days after infiltration but before chemical induction, plants were microscopically analyzed to investigate localization of CIPK5 and potential leakiness of the inducible plasmids. Green fluorescence of GFP:CIPK5 or GFP alone was distributed throughout the cytoplasm of the cell and also detectable in the nucleus ( [fig8] , left panels). In contrast, no fluorescence was detected in these cells ( [fig8] , right panels), confirming the absence of unspecific expression. Two days after infiltration, CBL3:mCherry was induced by painting the abaxial part of the infiltrated leaves with 100 μM β-estradiol and, 1 d after induction, samples were again investigated by confocal microscopy ( [fig8] ). A dramatically altered subcellular localization pattern of GFP:CIPK5 was observed upon induction of CBL3:mCherry expression. Most of the green fluorescence indicative for GFP:CIPK5 localization was shifted to the tonoplast and co-localized with the red fluorescence of CBL3:mCherry. Simultaneously, the nuclear localization of GFP:CIPK5 that was observed before induction completely disappeared in cells expressing CBL3:mCherry. Line-scan analyses over ranges encompassing the vacuolar membrane (indicated by a bar in the fluorescence overlay image) revealed a complete overlap of CBL3:mCherry and GFP:CIPK5 fluorescence at the tonoplast ( [fig8] , right upper row). In contrast, in the control, the nuclear and cytoplasmic accumulation of GFP alone was clearly distinguishable from the CBL3:mCherry fluorescence at the tonoplast ( [fig8] , right lower row). Also, the line-scan shows that CBL3:mCherry fluorescence at the tonoplast does not co-localize with the GFP fluorescence. This confirms that translocation of CIPK5 fluorescence is due to the interaction of CBL3 with CIPK5 and not to unspecific interaction with GFP. Together, these data provide the first evidence that a CBL protein can target a CIPK to a cellular membrane in the absence of any artificial stabilization of the CBL–CIPK complex. This result substantiates the notion that CBL proteins represent localization determinants of their interacting CIPKs. Finally, these experiments provide an example for the extended range of cell biological processes that can be investigated by virtue of chemical-modulated gene expression.
!~MM~! The minimal 35S promoter and LexA binding site for the sXVE fusion protein were amplified, restricted using enzymes Age I and Eco RI, and inserted into the pUC18 vector. The G10-90 promoter reading frame of the XVE fusion protein and the 3’UTR/terminator region from pea rbcS E9, as originally designed in the pER8 vector, were in vitro synthesized by the company GeneArt (Life Technologies). In this step, the codon usage of the XVE reading frame was optimized for Arabidopsis , unwanted restriction sites were removed, and new restriction sites were included to allow easy replacement of the promoter, terminator, and the reading frame between promoter and terminator if required. This synthetic DNA was restricted out of the GeneArt cloning vector using Hin dIII and Age I, and inserted into the pUC18 backbone containing the LexA and minimal 35S promoter. The G10-90 promoter was exchanged with the P16ΔS, which is the P16 promoter of At RPL37aC gene (At3G60245) (gift from S.U. Andersen and J. Lohmann) with a base pair substitution at position 196 from adenine to thymine to delete a Sal I restriction site. Additionally, a modified version of the SUPER ( [bib24] ) promoter with deleted Bam HI restriction sites named SUPERR-promoter was also inserted in substitution for the G10-90 promoter. The SUPER-promoter consists of a trimer of the octopine synthase upstream activating sequence (ocsUAS) and the mannopine synthase promoter/activator region. All four elements are fused together by Bam HI restriction sites. The 1st ocsUAS and MAS were amplified from the original pCAMBIA13000-pSUPER and the restriction sites Hin dIII– Eco RV– Bgl II were introduced 5’ of the ocsUAS and Xba I was introduced 3’ of the MAS. This fragment was inserted Hin dIII/ Xba I into pBluescript and the Bam HI site between ocsUAS and MAS was refilled by a Klenow reaction resulting in a Cla I restriction site in pKS–ocs1–MAS*. In a second PCR, a dimer of the ocsUAS was amplified and inserted into pKS–ocs1–MAS* using Hin dIII/ Bgl II. Finally, a second Klenow reaction was performed to fill up the Bam HI site between ocsUAS 2 and 3, resulting in pKS–ocs1–3–MAS*, which was named pKS–pSUPERR. To generate constructs for Arabidopsis and tobacco transformation, the expression cassettes were inserted Hin dIII/ Xba I into pGPTVII backbone vectors with Basta resistance and appropriate MCS facilitating to generate N-terminal or C-terminal fusion proteins ( [bib35] ; [bib34] ) with GFP5, mCherry, or GUS, respectively. In case of C-terminal and N-terminal GFP fusion, additional plasmids were generated which contain either Kanamycin or Hygromycin resistance for plant selection. In case of GUS, only plasmids for C-terminal fusions were generated. Constructs for protoplast transformation were made by subcloning the expression cassette including MCS, fluorophore, and Nos-terminator with restriction enzymes Xba I/ Eco RI into pUC18 backbone. Furthermore, the expression cassette was subcloned Hin dIII/ Xba I from pGPTVII into pUC18 backbones carrying an HA or StrepII tag in N-terminal or C-terminal orientation and subsequent subcloning using Xba I/ Eco RI resulted in pGPTVII plasmids with HA and StrepII tags. The GUS CDS was cloned Xba I/ Eco RI into the pUC backbone harboring the sXVE expression cassette. For UBQ10-containing plasmids, a Xba I restriction site in the promoter was deleted. Subsequently, this UBQ10 promoter fragment was digested Hin dIII/ Xba I and inserted into a Hin dIII/ Nhe I-restricted pUC sXVE-containing plasmid. From this, UBQ10:sXVE were restricted Hin dIII/ Xba I and inserted into pGPTVIIs containing fluorophores and tags in C-terminal and N-terminal orientation. All plasmids reported in this work are freely available for academic use and can be requested using the forms provided on the webpage at www.uni-muenster.de/Biologie.IBBP/agkudla/Plasmids.html . cDNA of CBL3 was subcloned into P16ΔS:sXVE:mCherry C using restriction sites Bam HI/ Xba I. For UBQ10:GFP N :CIPK5 generation, the GFP N :Bar plasmid from [bib22] was used. The promoter was replaced by UBQ10 promoter ( [bib17] ) digesting UBQ10 from pKS with Hin dIII/ Xho I and pGPTVII:Bar with Hin dIII/ Xba I. Xho I and Xba I were filled in to create blunt ends. Subsequent ligation resulted in the construct UBQ10:GFP N :Bar. CIPK5 cDNA was PCR amplified and inserted Spe I/ Xho I into UBQ10:GFP N :Bar. Primer sequence can be found in [sec1] , available at Molecular Plant Online. GFP5 was subcloned Xba I/ Apa I into kanII-SPYCE(MR)155 ( [bib34] ), resulting in 35S:GFP N :Kan. RBOHF was amplified with primers Atrboh_F_Bam_f and Atrboh_F_Xho_r and cloned Bam HI/ Xho I into pGPTVII:GFP N :Kan to generate the construct designated as 35S:GFP N :RBOHF. The generation of the G10-90:GFP N :RBOHF:pER8 construct is described in [bib12] . For SUPERR:sXVE:GFP N :RBOHF, the cassette including GFP, RBOHF, and Nos-terminator was subcloned Xba I/ Eco RI from 35S:GFP:RBOHF into SUPERR:sXVE:GFP N . Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia was used for all experiments. Plants were transformed by the Agrobacterium tumefaciens -mediated floral dip method ( [bib8] ). For selection, plants were grown on 0.5 MS media supplemented with 25 mg l –1 Basta (Sigma Aldrich). N. benthamiana plants for transient expression were grown in the greenhouse in a 12 h light/12 h darkness cycle. Transformation of A. tumefaciens strain (GV3101/pMP90) and transient protein expression by N. benthamiana infiltration in 4–5-week-old plants was performed according to [bib33] . After infiltration, plants were kept under continuous light. Expression of sXVE constructs was induced 1 d after infiltration by painting defined β-estradiol concentrations on the abaxial side of the leaves. Non-induced controls were mock-treated with 0.1% ethanol (β-estradiol solvent) in water. To induce transgene expression in stably transformed 7–14-day-old seedlings, they were transferred from selection media to freshly prepared 0.5 MS media supplemented with 5 μM β-estradiol and induced for 12–48h. To induce transgene expression in older plants growing in soil, lower sides of the leaves and flowers were sprayed with 100 μM β-estradiol and plants were incubated for 48h. Arabidopsis leaf mesophyll protoplasts of 4–5-week-old plants (grown at 22°C, low light, with 10 h light/14 h dark cycle) were isolated following the Tape-Arabidopsis Sandwich Method ( [bib37] ). Protoplasts were transfected by the PEG/calcium-mediated method ( [bib40] ). Transfected protoplasts were subsequently incubated for 15h in the dark in six-well plates before analysis under a confocal laser scanning microscope (see above). β-estradiol-induced protein expression was started 30min after transfection by adding 5 μM final concentration of β-estradiol to the protoplast solution. Controls were mock-treated with a solvent control (5% ethanol, 95% Wi-buffer). Microscopic analyses of concentration and time series were performed using an inverted Leica DMI 6000B microscope set-up. Confocal microscopy was performed using an inverted Leica DMIRE2 microscope equipped with a Leica TCS SP2 laser scanning device described previously ( [bib3] , [bib4] ). Proteins were extracted from approximately 200mg plant material. Therefore, four tobacco leaf discs of 1 cm diameter were punched from different parts of the leaf. Plant material was milled using the Retsch mixer mill and re-suspended in protein extraction buffer (50 mM Tris/HCl pH 7.4, 150 mM NaCl, 20 mM DTT, protease inhibitor cocktail (Sigma Aldrich)). After 10 min of centrifugation, the supernatant was collected and used for protein quantification with amido black. Ten microliter samples were mixed with 190 μl water and 800 μl amido black staining buffer (10% acetic acid, 90% methanol, 0.1% amido black). Samples were vortexed, centrifuged for 20min, and the pellet washed two times with 1 ml amido black de-staining solution (10% acetic acid, 90% methanol). The protein pellet was re-suspended in 1 ml 0.2 M NaOH and OD 615 was measured. Protein concentrations were calculated by comparison with standard BSA concentrations and 20 μg total protein was loaded on an SDS gel and blotted to a polyvinylidene difluoride membrane. Detection was performed by incubating membranes with 1:4000 in rat anti-GFP or rat anti-RFP antibody (Chromotek) and 1:20 000 in goat anti-rat antibody conjugated with horseradish peroxidase (Abbiotech). T 2 generation seeds of Arabidopsis , stably transformed with GUS constructs, were sown on 0.5 MS + 25 mg l –1 Basta (Sigma Aldrich). After 12 d, seedlings were transferred to 0.5 MS media containing 5 μM β-estradiol and induced for 24 h. Seedlings were stained using 5 mg 5-Bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-D-glucuronic acid dissolved in 1% dimethylformamide and 100 mM sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7) for 24 h at 37°C in the dark and afterwards de-stained with 80% ethanol. Sequence data of this article can be found in [sec1] and [sec1] .
