!~ABS~! Myosin XI motor proteins transport plant organelles on the actin cytoskeleton. The Arabidopsis gene family that encodes myosin XI has 13 members, 12 of which have sub-domains within the tail region that are homologous to well-characterized cargo-binding domains in the yeast myosin V myo2p. Little is presently known about the cargo-binding domains of plant myosin XIs. Prior experiments in which most or all of the tail regions of myosin XIs have been fused to yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) and transiently expressed have often not resulted in fluorescent labeling of plant organelles. We identified 42 amino-acid regions within 12 Arabidopsis myosin XIs that are homologous to the yeast myo2p tail region known to be essential for vacuole and mitochondrial inheritance. A YFP fusion of the yeast region expressed in plants did not label tonoplasts or mitochondria. We investigated whether the homologous Arabidopsis regions, termed by us the “PAL” sub-domain, could associate with subcellular structures following transient expression of fusions with YFP in Nicotiana benthamiana. Seven YFP::PAL sub-domain fusions decorated Golgi and six were localized to mitochondria. In general, the myosin XI PAL sub-domains labeled organelles whose motility had previously been observed to be affected by mutagenesis or dominant negative assays with the respective myosins. Simultaneous transient expression of the PAL sub-domains of myosin XI-H, XI-I, and XI-K resulted in inhibition of movement of mitochondria and Golgi.
!~RES~! In the yeast myosin ScMyo2p, there is a 11 amino acid section that has been shown by mutagenesis to be critical for vacuole inheritance (Catlett et al., [B9]). Mutations in this region also affect mitochondrial inheritance (Fortsch et al., [B11]). A 42 amino acid region encompassing the 11 amino acids is highly conserved between yeast and plants and among the 12 different plant myosin XIs (Figure [F1]). Based on the ScMyo2p structure template (PDB code2F6HX), homology models of globular tails of all A. thaliana class XI myosins were built. The three- dimensional structures that were obtained indicate that the predicted general architecture of the PAL sub-domain in class XI myosins is very similar to that of ScMyo2p (Figure [SM1]; Figure [F1]). The models indicate that the 11 amino-acid sections homologous to the corresponding yeast sections are predicted to be exposed on the surface of the polypeptides when the 42-amino acid regions we expressed are modeled. Previously we have fused the PAL sub-domain from Arabidopsis myosin XI-F to YFP and have shown that the fusion protein labels plastids and stromules (Sattarzadeh et al., [B33]). We have now made constructs with the remaining 11 PAL sub-domains from the Arabidopsis class XI myosins fused to YFP at the N-terminus. We report YFP fusion information for XI-C and XI-E together because the PAL domains of these two myosin XIs are identical. The localization of the YFP fusion proteins was examined by confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) in leaf epidermal cells of N. benthamiana following agroinfiltration. Except for the YFP::At XI-2 PAL fusion, all tested fusions labeled vesicles in the same size range as the Golgi, endosomes, and mitochondria (Figures [F2]). The YFP fusions with myosin XI-2 failed to localize to any vesicular structures and strongly labeled the plasma membrane (Figure [F2]; Figure [SM2]). The YFP fusion with the At XI-A PAL sub-domain was usually seen also in the cytoplasm; however, some unidentified vesicular structures were sometimes observed in a few cells (Figure [F2]). YFP fusion with the homologous region in yeast (RVI: Required for Vacuole Inheritance) resulted in diffuse cytoplasmic labeling in plant cells, but some punctate loci could be discerned at the plasma membrane (Figure [F2]). Transient expression of YFP:: Myosin PAL sub-domains. Agrobacterium-mediated transient expression of YFP fusions of PAL sub-domains in epidermal cells of N. benthamiana (A) At XI-2. (B) At XI-A. (C) At XI-C. (D) At XI-F. (E) XI-K. (F) ScMyo2p RVI (Required for Vacuole Inheritance). An arrow marks some of the vesicles observed with YFP:: At XI-A PAL. Scale bar = 50 μm. In order to identify the YFP-labeled organelles, we performed co-localization studies by co-expressing the myosin YFP-PAL fusions transiently with CFP or mCherry organelle markers in leaf epidermal cells of N. benthamiana. The YFP fusions with the PAL sub-domain of myosins XI-1, XI-D, XI-G, XI-H, XI-I and XI-K co-localized with the Golgi marker (Figure [F3]). Some but not all Golgi were labeled by the YFP::PAL fusion of myosin XI-B (Figures [F3]). Vesicles labeled by YFP fusions with the PAL sub-domain of XI-C and XI-E did not coincide with the Golgi marker (data not shown). Co-expression of YFP::Myosin XI PAL sub-domain with CFP and mCherry markers for Golgi in epidermal leaf cells of N. benthamiana (A) At XI-1. (D) At XI-I B. (G) At XI-D. (J) At XI-G. (M) At XI-H. (P) At XI-I (S) At XI-K. (B,E,H,K,N,Q,T) Golgi marker. (C,F,I,L,O,R,U) Merged images of YFP (yellow) and mCherry (red) or CFP (blue). Scale bar = 50 μm YFP fusions with the PAL sub-domain from myosins XI-C, XI-E, XI-G, XI-H, XI-I, and XI-K co-localized with a mitochondrial marker (Figure [F4]). YFP::PAL fusions with myosins XI-B (Figure [F5]) and XI-D (data not shown) did not coincide with the mitochondrial signal. When YFP::PAL fusions of myosin XI-B, XI-H, XI-I, and XI-K were expressed along with a peroxisomal marker, no co-localization was observed (Figure [F5]). Co-Expression of YFP::Myosin XI PAL sub-domain with mCherry markers for mitochondria in epidermal leaf cells of N. benthamiana. (A) At XI-C. (D) At XI-I G. (G) At XI-H. (J) At XI-I (M) At XI-K. (B,E,H,K,N) mCherry mitochondrial marker. (C,F,I,L,O) Merged images of YFP (yellow) and mCherry (red). Scale bar = 50 μm. Lack of co-localization with mitochondrial and peroxisome markers. Co-expression of YFP::Myosin XI PAL sub-domains with mCherry markers for mitochondria and peroxisomes in epidermal leaf cells of N. benthamiana. (A and D) At XI-B. (G) At XI-H. (J) At XI-I (M) At XI-K. (B) mCherry mitochondrial marker. (E,H,K,N) mCherry peroxisomes. (C,F,I,L,O) Merged images of YFP (yellow) and mCherry (red). Scale bar = 50 μm Eight of the YFP fusions to PAL sub-domain (AtXI-1,B,C,D,E,G,I and K) appear to label the nuclear envelope in epidermal cells (Figures [F6]). Even though the homologous region in yeast interacts with vacuoles, we observed only one plant PAL sub-domain, from XI-B, that label structures that are characteristic of tonoplast membranes in appearance (Xu et al., [B39]) (Figure [F7]). Most cells expressing XI-B exhibited fluorescent Golgi, vesicles, and nuclear envelopes (Figure [F7]). The positive and negative co-localizations are summarized in Table [T1]. Transient expression of YFP fusions of A. thaliana class XI myosin PAL sub-domains in epidermal leaf cells of N. benthamiana. YFP fusions of At XI-1 PAL (A), At XI-B PAL (B), At XI-C/E PAL (C), At XI-D PAL (D), At XI-G (E), At XI-I PAL (F) and At XI-K PAL (G) are shown in yellow. (H) DAPI staining of epidermal leaf cells of N. benthamiana expressing YFP:: At XI-K PAL. (I) Merged images of YFP (yellow) and DAPI staining (blue). Scale bar = 15 μm. Transient expression of YFP::At XI-B PAL in epidermal leaf cells of N. benthamiana. (A) In most cells, this YFP pattern was observed. (B and C) Occasionally, structures characteristic of tonoplasts (Xu et al., [B39]) were observed. Examples of the putative tonoplasts are indicated with arrows. Scale bar = 25 μm. Summary of localization of PAL sub-domains of A. thaliana class XI myosins N-terminally fused to YFP and transiently expressed in leaves epidermal cells of N. benthamiana. Organelles that were observed not to co-localize with a particular myosin are shown in italics. High levels of expression are often achieved following agroinfiltration. When a myosin tail domain lacking the motor function is expressed, a dominant negative effect on motility can sometimes be detected. However, when we examined the vesicles labeled by the 11 YFP::At PAL sub-domains, we found that rapid motility was retained, in contrast to our prior observation of stationary vesicles following agroinfiltration of YFP::At DIL domain fusions. Motility is documented in Figures [F8] and Movies [SM4] in Supplementary Material. In order to determine whether a dominant negative effect on movement might occur if multiple PAL sub-domains were expressed, we agroinfiltrated simultaneously four strains, containing YFP-PAL sub-domain fusions from myosins XI-H, XI-I, and XI-K, along with a strain carrying either a mCherry marker for Golgi or for mitochondria. About a third of the cells expressing YFP exhibited YFP-labeled vesicles that were stationery or poorly motile (Figures [F8]). Agroinfiltration does not result in all cells in a leaf expressing the transgenes, so some cells may be expressing only one or two of the PAL sub-domain fusions. We show an example of two adjacent cells, one of which is expressing one or more YFP-labeled PAL sub-domains localized to nearly immobile vesicles, while an adjacent cell is expressing only the mCherry mitochondrial marker and therefore exhibits motile mitochondria (Movie [SM5]). We provide an example of a cell expressing mCherry-Golgi and YFP:: PAL sub-domains located on immobile vesicles in Movie [SM6]. When the mCherry Golgi marker is infiltrated by itself, the Golgi exhibit high motility (Movie [SM7]). We also observed minimal motility of YFP-labeled vesicles in many cells when we co-infiltrated three strains containing YFP-PAL sub-domain fusions from myosins XI-H, XI-I, and XI-K, without simultaneous co-infiltration of a strain carrying an organelle marker (Movie [SM8]). In Figure [F8], we provide three panels (A–C) from a movie that illustrate movement of vesicles labeled with YFP:: XI-K PAL when it is expressed alone; however, in (Figures [F8], no movement of vesicles occurs following co-infiltration of XI-H, XI-I, and XI-K. We conclude that expression of multiple PAL sub-domains can impair movement of Golgi and mitochondria by a dominant negative effect. Sequential images indicating movement YFP::At XI-K PAL sub-domain-labeled organelles but lack of movement when multiple domains are infiltrated simultaneously. (A–C) N. benthamiana leaves were infiltrated with an Agrobacterium strain carrying a YFP::At XI-K PAL sub-domain. (D–F) Leaves were infiltrated simultaneously with three Agrobacterium strains (YFP::At XI-H, YFP::At XI-I, and YFP::At XI-K PAL sub-domains), each of which contained a transgene with one PAL sub-domain fused to YFP. Time-lapse series were obtained by confocal microscope. Only three frames are shown. Time (t) is indicated in seconds. Bar = 50 um. An arrow marks an organelle that is in different positions in A–C.
!~MM~! Generation of the YFP::myosin constructs was performed as described (Sattarzadeh et al., [B33]) using standard TOPO and Gateway cloning system (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). The primers used are listed in Table [SM10] in Supplementary Material. Plant growth and agroinfiltration was done as described (Sattarzadeh et al., [B34]). When multiple strains were infiltrated, the same total concentration of bacteria was used as for single infiltration. For labeling of mitochondria, peroxisomes, Golgi stacks and plasma membrane with mCherry fluorescent protein, binary vectors, CD3-991, CD3-984, CD3-967, and CD3-1008 (Nelson et al., [B17]) were used, respectively. According to Nelson et al. ([B17]), the mitochondrial marker was made by fusing the first 29 amino acids from the N-terminus of yeast COXIV (Köhler et al., [B15]) to mCherry, the peroxisomal targeting signal Ser-Lys-Leu (Reumann, [B29]) to mCherry, and the Golgi marker resulted from fusion of the first 49 amino acids of soybean α-1,2-mannosidase I (Saint-Jore-Dupas et al., [B31]) to mCherry. The Golgi CFP marker was made by Sattarzadeh et al. ([B34]) by fusing the first 52 N-terminal amino acids of a rat 2, 6-sialyl transferase (Boevink et al., [B7]). For DNA staining by 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI), leaves were immersed in a solution of 2.5% mannitol/0.01%silwet/300 nM DAPI. CSLM was performed on a Leica microscope equipped with a TCS-SP2 confocal scanning head (Leica Microsystems, Heidelberg, Germany) as described (Sattarzadeh et al., [B33]). Movies [SM5]–[SM7] were captured by using an Andor XD revolution spinning disc confocal microscope. Infiltrations of each YFP::PAL fusion were performed at 3 separate times and approximately 100 cells in total were observed for each YFP::PAL fusion. The images shown represent the appearance of the majority of the labeling patterns for each fusion. We note in the text if an image is provided of labeling pattern that was only rarely observed. GeneDoc was used for generation of alignments (Nicholas and Nicholas, [B18]). Percent identity and divergence between Arabidopsis and N. benthamiana myosin XI PAL domains was generated with the LASERGENE MEGALIGN program (DNAstar, Madison, WI). Structure homology models for the tail domain of class XI mysoins were built by SWISSMODEL (Arnold et al., [B1]) based on the Myo2p structure template (2f6hX). PyMol (Delano Scientific) was used for drawing the structural homology models. The authors declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of interest.
