!~ABS~! Executer proteins have emerged as participants in singlet oxygen-mediated retrograde signalling in plants. This study relates the function of Executer in chloroplasts with the acclimation response to increased light.
!~RES~! The aim of the present study was to examine the collective response of the soluble chloroplast proteome of 8-week-old Arabidopsis plants following a transition from normal light (NL) to moderate high light (HL, 5-fold increase in PFD) in the time scale of hours. Furthermore, using Arabidopsis mutant plants, the link between the Executer pathway and the acclimation response upon exposure of plants to high light was investigated. The role of Executer in chloroplast light response was analysed using two independent T-DNA insertion lines inactivating EXECUTER1 (EX1) and EXECUTER2 (EX2), respectively. Absence of Executer transcripts was confirmed in the T-DNA insertion lines indicating them to represent true knockout lines (Supplementary Fig. S1). As previously reported ([CIT0069]et al., 2004; [CIT0041]et al., 2007), ex1 and ex2 plants showed no obvious alterations of growth and development. Because Executer proteins have been associated with PSII ([CIT0031]b ), PSII performance was assessed by measurement of chlorophyll-a fluorescence at room temperature in intact leaves from WT and executer mutant plants treated at the two different PFD (NL and HL) for 6h. No differences could be detected between WT and mutant plants, as deduced from the ratio of variable to maximum fluorescence (F v/F m), the quantum yield of PSII (ΦPSII), the degree of non-photochemical quenching (NPQ) and the excitation pressure of PSII (1-qP) ([T2]). HL treatment resulted in a 5% decline of F v/F m for both WT and mutant plants. PSII performance of intact leaves from NL- or HL-treated WT and executer mutant plants was determined by chlorophyll-a fluorescence measurements using a PAM-fluorometer. The maximum quantum yield of PS II (F v/F m), the effective quantum yield of PSII (ΦPSII), the degree of non-photochemical quenching (NPQ) and the excitation pressure of PSII (1-qP) was deduced. Data represents mean ± standard error. No significant differences were found between plants in the same light condition (ANOVA). To examine whether chloroplasts are affected by the loss of Executer, the effect of light was investigated on the soluble chloroplast proteome of Arabidopsis. First, plants were grown at 120μmol m-2 s-1. After 8weeks, plants were exposed to high light intensity (700μmol m-2 s-1) during 6h and chloroplasts were isolated from rosette leaves. The soluble protein extract from chloroplasts was analysed by 2D-DIGE, following a strategy as depicted in [T1]. The DIGE analysis revealed significant differences between WT and mutant plants, both under normal light (WTNL, ex1NL and ex2NL, respectively) and in response to high light (WTHL, ex1HL and ex2HL, respectively). The differences in the stroma proteome between WT, ex1 and ex2 are supported by PCA ([F1]). Based on the first principal component (PC1)—that represents the direction of highest variability after gel data dimensionality reduction—there is a large variation between WT in normal conditions versus high light treatment. Differences between executer mutants and WT under normal conditions are also evident ([F1]).Fig. 1.A principal component analysis (PCA) biplot for the complete data set demonstrated a distinct clustering of WT from the executer mutants (ex1 and ex2) in the two light treatments (NL and HL). Principal components 1 (PC1) and 2 (PC2)—where PC1 indicates the direction of the highest variability followed by PC2 with diminishing variability orthogonal to PC1—accounted for 51% and 11% of the study variance, respectively. PCA suggested a modification of the soluble chloroplast proteome in Arabidopsis upon light treatment. The genotype caused a large shift in the PC1 dimension to more positive values and significantly reduced the differences between NL and HL samples in PC2. A principal component analysis (PCA) biplot for the complete data set demonstrated a distinct clustering of WT from the executer mutants (ex1 and ex2) in the two light treatments (NL and HL). Principal components 1 (PC1) and 2 (PC2)—where PC1 indicates the direction of the highest variability followed by PC2 with diminishing variability orthogonal to PC1—accounted for 51% and 11% of the study variance, respectively. PCA suggested a modification of the soluble chloroplast proteome in Arabidopsis upon light treatment. The genotype caused a large shift in the PC1 dimension to more positive values and significantly reduced the differences between NL and HL samples in PC2. Comparative analysis of WT and ex1 and ex2 Arabidopsis plants in the two light conditions (NL and HL) showed a number of soluble chloroplast proteins that significantly altered their expression level (Supplementary Table S1; fold-change >2, p<0.001). The majority of the observed changes in the proteome were upregulations, irrespectively of genotype or treatments, with the largest changes detected in ex2 plants. In NL conditions, changes in 54 and 94 protein spots were detected in the ex1NL versus WTNL and ex2NL versus WTNL comparative groups, respectively (Supplementary Table S1). When the responsive spots of the two mutant plants in NL versus WTNL were compared, 41 spots (37+4) were exclusively detected in ex2NL plants, as shown in a Venn diagram analysis in [F2]. Upon exposure of WT Arabidopsis plants to high light (WTHL), 28 protein spots (5+1+18+4) displayed significant expression changes in response to the treatment (Supplementary Table S1). Actually, 23 light-responsive spots, which represent more than 82%, were detected in the ex1NL vs. WTNL and/or ex2NL vs. WTNL groups (1+18+4 in [F2]). When ex1 plants were exposed to high light for 6h (ex1HL), 27 protein spots (23+4 in [F2]) were found to be differentially expressed relative to ex1NL. Interestingly, the behaviour of 23 spots (not present in ex1NL) was shared between ex1HL and ex2NL groups ([F2]). Few differences were detected between ex2NL versus WTNL and ex2HL versus WTNL groups, with more than 91% common protein spots ([F2]). In general, it was observed that a higher number of unique spots were significantly altered in ex2 plants compared to WT, and the changes were already significant in normal light conditions (37 and 18 spots in [F2] and [F2], respectively).Fig. 2.Venn diagram analyses showing common and differential distribution of protein spots detected by DIGE in stromal preparations of Arabidopsis plants in response to light and genotype, using as reference WT in normal growth light conditions (WTNL). (A) Overlay of the responsive proteins in WT upon light treatment (WTHL), and the two executer mutants in normal growth light conditions (ex1NL and ex2NL, respectively); (B) Overlay of the responsive proteins in ex1 plants upon light treatment (ex2HL) and the two executer mutants in normal growth light conditions (ex1NL and ex2NL, respectively); (C) Overlay of the responsive proteins in WT upon light treatment (WTHL) and the ex2 mutants both in normal light (ex2NL) and high light (ex2HL) conditions. Venn diagram analyses showing common and differential distribution of protein spots detected by DIGE in stromal preparations of Arabidopsis plants in response to light and genotype, using as reference WT in normal growth light conditions (WTNL). (A) Overlay of the responsive proteins in WT upon light treatment (WTHL), and the two executer mutants in normal growth light conditions (ex1NL and ex2NL, respectively); (B) Overlay of the responsive proteins in ex1 plants upon light treatment (ex2HL) and the two executer mutants in normal growth light conditions (ex1NL and ex2NL, respectively); (C) Overlay of the responsive proteins in WT upon light treatment (WTHL) and the ex2 mutants both in normal light (ex2NL) and high light (ex2HL) conditions. Based on quantitative image analysis, 107 spots were detected to be significantly altered in their accumulation among genotypes and treatments and were selected as highly responsive proteins. Ninety differentially expressed protein spots were successfully excised from colloidal Coomassie stained gels (a representative gel is shown in [F3]) and analysed by mass spectrometry. Gel spots corresponding to protein mixtures or albumin were discarded. Several proteins were presented as multiple spots that likely represent different isoforms or proteins differentially modified in the protein extracts or degradation products. Finally, a total of 47 spots corresponding to 29 proteins were unambiguously identified ([T3], [F3] and Supplementary Table S2). The identified proteins fell into several functional groups: photosynthesis and carbon fixation, energy generation, RNA metabolism, protein folding, and other metabolic processes, such as nitrogen and tetrapyrrole metabolism ([F4]). There were also some proteins of unknown function. Preparative CBB-stained 2D gel of the soluble chloroplast proteome of Arabidopsis. The positions and numbers of the 47 identified protein spots are indicated according to the numbering in [T3]. Summary of differentially expressed proteins (light treatment and/or genotype effect versus WTNL) identified by MS. The functional classification (GROUP) and gene accession number (GENE ID) are shown. The fold change in protein abundance is indicated in colour code; values >1 or <1 indicate an increase or decrease in protein abundance, respectively. A colour version of this figure is available at JXB online Schematic presentation of chloroplast proteins affected in executer mutants and WT plants after light treatment compared to WT plants under normal or growth light conditions, as shown in Table 3. Arrows indicate increased or decreased abundance compared to WTNL. An asterisk indicates that the protein is not differentially expressed in WTHL; 1protein is not differentially expressed in ex1NL, 2protein is not differentially expressed in ex2NL; 3multi-expression pattern. Abbreviations: ALA, 5-aminolevulinic acid; ATPα, ATPβ and ATPγ, ATPase alpha, beta and gamma subunits, respectively; CA1, carbonic anhydrase 1; CP29B’, chloroplast ribonucleoprotein 29kDa; CP31A, 31 kDA RNA-binding protein; CPN60α and CPN60β, chaperonin 60 alpha and beta subunits, respectively; CSP41A and CSP41B, chloroplast stem-loop binding protein of 41kDa A and B subunits, respectively; Cytb6f, cytochrome b6f complex; FBA1 and FBA2, ructose-bisphosphate aldolase subunits 1 and 2, respectively; Fd, ferredoxin; FNR2, ferredoxin-NADP(+)-oxidoreductase 2; GAPB, glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase B subunit; Glu, glutamate; Gln, glutamine; GlyK, D-glycerate 3-kinase; GS2, glutamine synthetase-2; GSA2, glutamate-1-semialdehyde 2 1-aminomutase); PC, plastocyanin; PGK, phosphoglycerate kinase; PQH2, plastoquinol; PRK, phosphoribulokinase; PsbO and PsbP, photosystem II subunits O and P, respectively; PSI, photosystem I; PSII, photosystem II; PSRP-2, plastid-specific ribosomal protein 2; RCA, rubisco activase; RPE, ribulose-phosphate-3-epimerase; RPI, ribose 5-phosphate isomerase; TKL, transketolase; TL19, thylakoid lumen 19kDa; 2-OG, 2-oxoglutarate. Ferredoxin-NADP reductase isoform 2 (FNR-2), which mediates the transferring of electrons from ferredoxin to NADP, and two proteins of the oxygen evolving complex (OEC) from photosystem II—PsbO isoforms (PsbO1 and PsbO-2) and PsbP—were more abundant in the chloroplast soluble fraction of executer mutant plants compared to wild type Arabidopsis. Except for OEC proteins, a similar trend was observed in WTHL. Two peripheral ATP synthase subunits (alpha and beta) were significantly affected in executer mutants: an increase abundance of the alpha subunit (ATP-A) in the stromal compartment was detected, but a multi-expression pattern (spots 44, 62 and 69) was observed for the beta subunit (ATP-B) and therefore it could not be classified simply into the up- or down-regulated group. On the other hand, the stromal ATP synthase delta subunit (ATP-C) accumulated in a light-dependent manner. Six Calvin-Benson (CB) enzymes (transketolase, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase B, phosphoglycerate kinase, phosphoribulokinase, rubisco activase and fructose-biphosphate aldolase 2) accumulated in mutant plants compared with WTNL. However, ribulose-5-phosphate 3-epimerase, ribose 5-phosphate isomerase and fructose-biphosphate aldolase 1 were down-regulated. For these enzymes, except glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase B, a similar direction of response was detected in WTHL. The stromal enzymes glutamine synthetase-2 (involved in nitrogen metabolism) and glutamate-1-semialdehyde 2,1-aminomutase (tetrapyrrole synthesis) were upregulated in a genotype- and treatment-manner. Carbonic anhydrase 1 showed increased relative abundance in mutant plants, and also a slight increase upon light treatment. Glycerate 3-kinase, a participant of the photorespiratory cycle, was particularly affected in ex2 mutant plants. Alpha and beta subunits of Cpn60—a molecular chaperone that participates in protein folding in chloroplasts—increased in executer mutants plants and, to a lesser extent, in WTHL as compared with WTNL. Interestingly, a group of proteins related to mRNA metabolism—the chloroplast stem-loop binding proteins of 41kDa (CSP41A, CSP41B), and plastid-specific ribosomal protein 2 (PSRP-2)—were significantly upregulated in mutant plants. The accumulation of two chloroplast ribonucleoproteins, namely CP29B’ and CP31A, was affected both by genotype and light treatment. The abundance of two chloroplast proteins of unknown function ([T3]) varied in a genotype-dependent manner. Spots 122 and 183 corresponded to a protein containing a tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) region based on protein sequence analysis ([CIT0026]et al., 2005). Spot 200 was identified as a thylakoid lumen protein of 19kDa (TL19) ([CIT0063]et al., 2002).
!~MM~! For all the experiments, Arabidopsis thaliana plants (WT and mutants) of the ecotype Columbia (Col-0) were used. The SALK_002088C and SALK_021694C lines─harbouring a T-DNA insertion in the EX1 (At4g33630) and EX2 (At1g27510) genes, respectively─were purchased from NASC (Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Center) ([CIT0001]et al., 2003). Plants were grown on soil or on MS basal salt medium. Genomic DNA was isolated from leaf material using the CTAB extraction protocol adapted from [CIT0070] and screened for T-DNA insertion by PCR genotyping. The following genomic primers were used: EX1 forward gene specific primer (FP; 5′-CACTCCCTCCTCCAAAAGATC-3′) and EX1 reverse gene specific primer (RP; 5′-TACCCCAATCACTCAAATTGG-3′) to characterize insertion lines SALK_002088; EX2-FP (5′-CACTAAGCT TGTCATCGGAGG-3′) and EX2-RP (5′-AAATGTCAATGTG GCTGGAAC-3′), to characterize insertion lines SALK_021694. In these experiments, the T-DNA–specific left border (LB) primer LB (5′-ATTTTGCCGATTTCGGAAC-3′) was also used. To verify PCR products and T-DNA insertion sites, amplified DNA fragments were sequenced. Plants were grown on soil in a growth chamber at 8 h-light/16 h-darkness (20ºC) for 7–8 weeks under a photon flux density (PFD) of 120μmol m-2 s-1 and relative humidity of 70%. For the high light (HL) experiments, plants were transferred 1h after the onset of the light period to a growth chamber under PFD of 600–700μmol m-2 s-1. As control material one set of plants was maintained at 120μmol quanta m-2 s-1, representing normal light (NL) conditions. After 6h light treatment (HL or NL), plant leaves were harvested for chloroplast isolation and purification according to [CIT0024]et al. (2011). Briefly, 20g of plant material was homogenized using a blender in ice-cold extraction buffer (20mM Tricine-NaOH pH 8.4, 300mM sorbitol, 10mM KCl, 10mM Na-EDTA, 0.25% BSA, 4.5mM sodium ascorbate and 5mM L-cysteine). Cell debris was removed by a nylon mesh (22μm), and chloroplasts were pelleted by centrifugation for 2min at 1000 ×g. Chloroplasts were washed and ruptured by osmotic shock in 10mM Na-pyrophosphate-NaOH pH 7.8 buffer. Following centrifugation at 100 000×g for 1h at 4ºC, the supernatant containing the soluble stromal proteins was concentrated using an Amicon Ultra-15 10 K ultrafiltration device. Protein concentration was determined using the Bradford assay ([CIT0007]) and bovine serum albumin as reference. Seppro® Rubisco Spin Columns (Sigma) were used to reduce Rubisco abundance in the stroma samples. Chloroplast stroma samples were precipitated with ice cold acetone. Protein pellets were solubilized in DIGE labelling buffer (30mM Tris-HCl pH 8.5, 2M thiourea, 7M urea, 2% (w/v) CHAPS). Remaining insoluble material was removed by centrifugation for 10min at 21 000×g. The final protein concentration for G-Dye labelling was 5μg/μl. Solubilized protein samples were separately labelled with G-Dye100, G-Dye200 and G-Dye300 dyes (DyeAGNOSTICS) at a ratio of 400pmol dye/50µg protein extract for 30min in darkness on ice. Labelling was quenched by addition of lysine. In general, samples were labelled using G-Dye200 and G-Dye300 dyes while an internal standard (consisting of a pooled sample comprising an equal amount of all samples in the experiment) was labelled with G-Dye100. Details of labelling and the subsequent combination of differentially labelled samples used are shown in the experimental design presented in [T1]. For each immobilized pH gradient (IPG) strip, equal amounts of G-Dye100, G-Dye200 and G-Dye300 labelled samples were combined, typically 50µg protein per sample. Prior to iso-electric focusing the mixed samples were diluted with rehydration solution containing 2M thiourea, 7M urea, 2% (w/v) CHAPS, 20mM DTT, 0.002% (w/v) bromophenol blue and 0.5% (v/v) IPG buffer pH 3–11NL (GE Healthcare, Uppsala, Sweden). Samples were thereafter applied to 24cm Immobiline Dry Strips pH 3–11 NL (GE Healthcare, Uppsala, Sweden) by passive rehydration for 2h followed by active rehydration for 10h at 30V. Isoelectric focusing (IEF) was performed on an IPGphor II (GE Healthcare, Uppsala, Sweden). Prior to second dimension SDS-PAGE, strips were equilibrated first for 15min in 75mM Tris-HCl pH 8.8, 6M urea, 2% (w/v) SDS, 30% (v/v) glycerol, 0.002% (w/v) bromophenol blue and 1% (w/v) DTT and secondly for 15min in 75mM Tris-HCl pH 8.8, 6M urea, 2% (w/v) SDS, 30% (v/v) glycerol, 0.002% (w/v) bromophenol blue and 2.5% (w/v) iodoacetamide. Strips were applied on top of 12% SDS-polyacrylamide gels and sealed in place using 0.5% (w/v) agarose. Second dimension separation was performed using an Ettan Daltsix electrophoresis unit (GE Healthcare). Preparative samples for spot picking and subsequent mass spectrometry analysis, corresponding to 500 µg of protein per IPG strip (comprising an equal mixture of all samples in the experiment), were precipitated in acetone. Proteins were solubilised in 2M thiourea, 7M urea, 2% CHAPS, 20mM DTT, 0.002% (w/v) bromophenol blue and 0.5% (v/v) IPG buffer pH 3–11 NL (GE Healthcare, Uppsala, Sweden) before being separated by 2D-gel electrophoresis as described for DIGE gels above. Preparative gels were fixed in 30% ethanol, 10% acetic acid and were stained by Coomasie Brilliant Blue (CBB).Table 1.Dye swap setup of the DIGE experiments using G-Dye100, G-Dye200 and G-Dye300. The experiment consisted of three genotypes (ex1 and ex2 mutant plants, and WT) and two light treatments (NL and HL) making a total of six groups. Four replicates were taken per sample for a total of 24 protein samples in the experiment. The internal standard contained equal amounts of protein extracts from all samples.GelG-Dye100G-Dye200G-Dye300 1 Pooled standardWTNL ex1NL 2 Pooled standardWTNL ex1NL 3 Pooled standard ex1NLWTNL 4 Pooled standard ex1NLWTNL 5 Pooled standardWTHL ex1HL 6 Pooled standardWTHL ex1HL 7 Pooled standard ex1HLWTHL 8 Pooled standard ex1HLWTHL 9 Pooled standard ex2NL ex2HL 10 Pooled standard ex2NL ex2HL 11 Pooled standard ex2HL ex2NL 12 Pooled standard ex2HL ex2NL Dye swap setup of the DIGE experiments using G-Dye100, G-Dye200 and G-Dye300. The experiment consisted of three genotypes (ex1 and ex2 mutant plants, and WT) and two light treatments (NL and HL) making a total of six groups. Four replicates were taken per sample for a total of 24 protein samples in the experiment. The internal standard contained equal amounts of protein extracts from all samples. G-Dye labelled samples were visualized using a Typhoon™ 9400 Variable Mode Imager (GE Healthcare, Uppsala, Sweden). All gel images were scanned at 100µm resolution using a photomultiplier tube (PMT) voltage optimal for maximal pixel intensity without spot saturation. Prior to image analysis the gel images were cropped using ImageQuant™ v.5.2 (GE Healthcare, Uppsala, Sweden) in order to remove extraneous areas. DIGE analysis was performed using Redfin 3 software (Ludesi) as was matching of preparative CBB stained gels to DIGE gels. Images of CBB-stained gels were acquired using an image scanner and the Labscan software (GE Healthcare, Uppsala, Sweden). Spot detection, matching and statistical analysis was performed using the Redfin 3 program (www.ludesi.com). A principal component analysis (PCA) was performed to separate the gel samples according to their expression variation. One-way analysis of variance (ANOVA; p<0.001) and MannWhitney (p<0.05) tests were conducted to assess differential expression of protein abundance between the different groups. Minimum protein volume was set at 200 and differentially expressed proteins with a change in average spot volume of at least 2.0-fold were selected. Spots of interest were excised from preparative gels using an Ettan Spotpicker™ spot picking station fitted with a 1.4mm picker head. Gel plugs were dehydrated and destained by incubation with a solution containing 20mM ammonium hydrogen carbonate in 35% acetonitrile. The solution was removed and gel pieces were dried by addition and removal of neat acetonitrile twice. Dried gel plugs were rehydrated on ice with 20mM ammonium hydrogen carbonate and 10% acetonitrile containing 2ng/µl trypsin (Promega). In-gel digestion was performed overnight at 37°C. Mass spectrometry analysis of in-gel digests was performed on a MALDI-TOF Voyager-DE™ STR Bio Spectrometry Workstation (Applied Biosystems). Database searches were performed on a local Mascot server licensed to Umeå University by Matrixscience (www.matrixscience.com), using Arabidopsis TAIR9 and Swiss-Prot databases. For searches a peptide mass error tolerance of 50ppm was accepted and carbamidomethylation of cysteine and oxidation of methionine were specified as variable modifications. In vivo chlorophyll a fluorescence was measured using a Dual-PAM-100 chlorophyll fluorescence photosynthesis analyser (Heinz Walz) on attached rosette leaves. After dark acclimation of the plants (15min), the measuring light (9µmol photons m-2 s-1) was turned on, and minimal fluorescence (F o) was determined. Leaves were exposed to a pulse of saturating light (3000µmol photons m-2 s-1, 0.8s) to determine the maximum fluorescence in the dark-adapted state (F m). Subsequently, leaves were illuminated with actinic red light at 660µmol of photons m-2 s-1 determining the steady-state level of fluorescence in the light (F s) and subjected to saturating pulses (0.8s) of 3000µmol photons m-2 s-1 for 20min to measure the maximal fluorescence in the light-adapted state (F m’). The maximum PSII efficiency was expressed as F v/F m = (F m − F o)/F m, and the PSII operating efficiency as ΦPSII = (F m ’ − F s)/F m ’ ([CIT0020]et al., 1989). The NPQ coefficient was calculated using the Stern–Volmer equation, NPQ = (F m − F m’)/F m’; 1 - qP was calculated as (F s − F o’)/(F m ’ − F o ’) ([CIT0006]).
