!~ABS~! Phytohormone salicylic acid (SA) is a crucial component of plant-induced defense against biotrophic pathogens. Although the key players of the SA pathway are known, there are still gaps in the understanding of the molecular mechanism and the regulation of particular steps. In our previous research, we showed in Arabidopsis suspension cells that n-butanol, which specifically modulates phospholipase D activity, significantly suppresses the transcription of the pathogenesis related (PR-1) gene, which is generally accepted as the SA pathway marker. In the presented study, we have investigated the site of n-butanol action in the SA pathway. We were able to show in Arabidopsis plants treated with SA that n-butanol inhibits the transcription of defense genes (PR-1, WRKY38). Fluorescence microscopy of Arabidopsis thaliana mutants expressing 35S::NPR1-GFP (nonexpressor pathogenesis related 1) revealed significantly decreased nuclear localization of NPR1 in the presence of n-butanol. On the other hand, n-butanol did not decrease the nuclear localization of NPR1 in 35S::npr1C82A-GFP and 35S::npr1C216A-GFP mutants constitutively expressing NPR1 monomers. Mass spectrometric analysis of plant extracts showed that n-butanol significantly changes the metabolic fingerprinting while t-butanol had no effect. We found groups of the plant metabolites, influenced differently by SA and n-butanol treatment. Thus, we proposed several metabolites as markers for n-butanol action.
!~RES~! The increased levels of SA or exogenous treatment with this phytohormone activates the signaling pathway resulting in the transcription of defense related genes (e.g., pathogenesis related). The generally accepted marker of SA signaling is the PR-1 gene. In order to examine possible role of PLD/PA in this process, we co-treated 10-day-old seedlings of A. thaliana with both SA and increasing concentrations of n-butanol. The SA induced PR-1 transcription was decreased in the presence of n-butanol in a strongly dose-dependent manner (Figure [F1]). Contrarily, the t-butanol showed no effect on the PR-1 transcription (Figure [F1]). Effect of n-butanol on SA related genes transcription. (A) Ten-day-old A. thaliana seedlings were treated for 6 h with 50 μM NaSA (SA) and 0.00625, 0.025, 0.1% n-butanol. (B–D) 10-day-old A. thaliana seedlings were treated for 6 h with 0.1% n-butanol and 0.1% t-butanol or with 50 μM NaSA together with the above mentioned alcohols. Pure MS was used as a control. Error bars represent SE from three biological repeats. Asterisks indicate statistically significant differences compared to NaSA-treated plants without n-butanol (*P < 0.05, Student's t-test) for (A). Different letters indicate significant differences (P < 0.05) and were calculated with One-Way ANOVA and Fisher's LSD test. Transcription was normalized to a reference gene SAND. We also examined the effect of both alcohols on the transcription of other SA related genes, WRKY38 and S3H, both encoding proteins with different functions. While the PR-1 protein is responsible for a direct antimicrobial effect as the end product of SA pathway, WRKY38 is a transcription factor which negatively regulates PR-1 transcription, but it is NPR1 dependent (Kim et al., [B22]). S3H is an enzyme responsible for the conversion of SA to a less biologically active compound, gentisic acid (Zhang et al., [B56]). WRKY38 and S3H transcriptions were not as significantly blocked as PR-1 transcription. The relative transcription of WRKY38 decreased only two times and even less in the case of S3H (Figures [F1]). Also, the dose dependence of the n-butanol effect on the transcription of these two genes was far less apparent (Supplemental Figure [SM1]). We further intended to take a closer look at the site of n-butanol action in the SA signaling pathway. To decipher, we used 35S::NPR1-GFP A. thaliana transgenic plants. It was confirmed earlier that the treatment of these mutants with 2,6-dichloroisonicotinic acid (INA), a functional analog of SA, causes monomerization of NPR1, which is afterwards accumulated in the plant cell nucleus (Mou et al., [B31]). We treated 10-day-old 35S::NPR1-GFP A. thaliana seedlings with 250 μM NaSA and observed a significant increase of fluorescence in the nuclei (Figures [F2]), the same effect was described for INA treatment. The accumulation of 35S::NPR1-GFP in the nuclei in the presence of NaSA decreased after addition of 1% n-butanol (Figures [F2]). When t-butanol was applied as a negative control, no effect on the 35S::NPR1-GFP accumulation in the nuclei was observed (Figures [F2]). n-butanol alone decreased the basal accumulation of NPR1 in the nuclei in the control plants, while no effect was observed for t-butanol. The localization of NPR1-GFP in the nuclei was verified by DAPI staining (Supplemental Figure [SM2]). All these results correlate with the aforementioned PR-1 transcription analysis (Figure [F1]). Consequently, we wanted to examine whether the decreased amount of NPR1 in the nucleus caused by n-butanol is due to the higher actvity of proteasomes in NPR1 degradation (Spoel et al., [B45]). For this experiment, we used 35S::npr1C82A-GFP and 35S::npr1C216A-GFP seedlings expressing constitutively monomerized NPR1, which is overaccumulated in the nucleus (Mou et al., [B31]). The treatment of these mutants with 0.1% and 1% n-butanol did not decrease the accumulation of NPR1 in the nuclei (Figure [F3]). This experiment also provides evidence that n-butanol does not influence fluorescence intensity. Effect of SA and n-butanol on the localization of NPR1. Ten-day-old seedlings of A. thaliana 35S::NPR1-GFP mutants were treated for 6 h with fresh MS medium (control), 1% n-butanol (n-but), 1% t-butanol (t-but), 250 μM NaSA (SA), 250 μM NaSA (SA) and 1% n-butanol or 1% t-butanol. (A) Representative micrographs of 35S::NPR1-GFP A. thaliana seedlings 6 h after treatment, (B) Image analysis of relative fluorescence using APS Assess 2.0 software. The values represent means ± SE from 16 images (8 seedlings). Different letters indicate significant differences (P < 0.05) and were calculated with One-Way ANOVA and Fisher's LSD test. The experiment was performed in three biological replicates with similar results. Effects of n-butanol on the accumulation of NPR1 in the nuclei of Arabidopsis thaliana mutants constitutively expressing monomers of NPR1. Ten-day-old seedlings of 35S::npr1C82A-GFP and 35S::npr1C216A-GFP A. thaliana mutants were treated 6 h with fresh MS medium (control), 0.1% n-butanol and 1% n-butanol (n-but). (A) Representative images of 35S::npr1C82A-GFP and 35S::npr1C216A-GFP A. thaliana seedlings 6 h after treatment, (B) Image analysis of relative fluorescence using APS Assess 2.0 software. The values represent means ± SE from 12 images (6 seedlings). Asterisks indicate statistically significant differences compared to the control, non-treated plants (*P < 0.05, Student's t-test). The experiment was performed in two biological replicates with similar results. Zhang et al. ([B57]) showed that nuclear localization of NPR1 is required for SA accumulation, ICS1 transcription and SA tolerance. When NPR1 was retained in the cytoplasm, plants accumulated higher levels of ICS1 transcripts compared to the wild type. Based on this, we measured the transcription of ICS1 upon the addition of the n-butanol treatment and as expected, n-butanol induced ICS1 transcription in a dose-dependent manner (Figure [F4]), while t-butanol had no effect (Figure [F4]). These results support our suggestion that n-butanol inhibits the translocation of NPR1 to the nucleus. Accordingly, we also found that the ICS1 transcription in 35S::npr1C82A-GFP and 35S::npr1C216-GFP mutants were significantly decreased but n-butanol treatment partially reverted this effect (Figure [F4]). Transcription of ICS1 and PR-1 in wild type and mutants of Arabidopsis thaliana constitutively expressing monomeric NPR1 in the presence of n-butanol. (A) Ten-day-old A. thaliana seedlings (wt) were treated for 6 h with 50 μM NaSA (SA) and 0.00625, 0.025, 0.1% n-butanol. (B) Ten-day-old A. thaliana seedlings (wt) were treated for 6 h with 0.1% n-butanol and 0.1% t-butanol or with 50 μM NaSA (SA) together with the above mentioned alcohols. (C,D) Ten-day-old seedlings of 35S::npr1C82A-GFP (C82A) and 35S::npr1C216A-GFP (C216A) A. thaliana mutants were treated for 6 h with fresh MS medium (control) or MS with 0.1% n-butanol. Error bars represent SE from three independent repeats. Asterisks indicate statistically significant differences compared to control, non-treated plants (*P < 0.05, Student's t-test) for (A). Different letters indicate significant differences (P < 0.05) and were calculated with One-Way ANOVA and Fisher's LSD test for (B–D). The ICS1 and PR-1 transcription was normalized to a reference gene SAND. As the accumulation of SA leads to the massive reprogramming of the plant transcriptome, it was obviously accompanied by significant changes in the whole metabolome. We investigated these changes in plants treated with SA and n-butanol to test if we could reveal compounds involved in the SA/phospholipid signaling pathway. The principle component analysis (PCA) represents a highly useful and widely employed tool for the interpretation of complex data sets generated by several modern instruments including mass spectrometry. In our study, PCA was employed to explore alterations in the metabolomes of differently treated A. thaliana samples measured by LC-MS. As shown in Figure [F5], there was a significant difference in the metabolomic fingerprints of samples treated with n-butanol (right side of the PCA plot) and untreated ones (left side of the PCA plot). The samples treated with SA were clearly differentiated (bottom part of the PCA plot) from the untreated samples (top part of the PCA plot). The list of the most distinct markers (ions recovered from the LC-MS records) is summarized in Table [T1]. Obviously, SA and its metabolite SA hexoside are typical markers for the samples treated with SA. Unfortunately, the identification of markers present in n-butanol treated plants was mostly unsuccessful, mainly due to their high m/z values resulting in many possible elemental formulas and also due to the limited information about the changes induced by n-butanol in the metabolism. Important observations were that the t-butanol treated samples did not differentiate from the untreated samples and also that t-butanol had no effect on the SA treated samples (Figure [F5]). PCA score plot for LC-ESI(-)-MS data of n-butanol and salicylic acid metabolome in A. thaliana. Ten-day-old A. thaliana seedlings were treated for 6 h with 0.1% n-butanol or 0.1% t-butanol or with 50 μM NaSA (SA) together with the aformentioned alcohols. Fresh MS medium was used as a control. This experiment was done in three biological repeats with similar results. The most distinct metabolites (markers) of A. thaliana seedlings. We identified 114 metabolites, from which 61 were statistically (P = 0.05; two tailed Student's t-test) changed at least in one of the used treatments (Figure [F6]). Based on the response to treatment, we were able to divide the metabolites into six groups (Figure [F6]) according to whether they were induced or suppressed by SA, n-butanol or both chemicals together. Heat map of metabolites. Ten-day-old Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings were treated for 6 h with 0.1% n-butanol or with 50 μM NaSA (SA) and both chemicals together. Fresh MS was used as a control. The Heat map values represent a ratio between the treated and control samples (treatment/control). The green color indicates increased values, red indicates decreased values and black indicates zero; see the color scale. The gray color indicates metabolites with a low signal in particular treated samples. P-value is represented by yellow 0.01 < P < 0.05; bright green P < 0.01 (Student's t-test). The arrows indicate putative metabolites with a similar pattern of response to treatment as the PR-1 gene transcription. Group I represents metabolites induced by SA. Group II represents metabolites induced by n-butanol. Group III represents metabolites suppressed by SA. Group IV represents metabolites suppressed by n-butanol. Group V represents metabolites suppressed only when SA and n-butanol were applied together. Group VI represents metabolites suppressed by all treatments. This experiment was repeated in three biological repeats with similar results. RT, retention time; m/z, mass to charge ratio.
!~MM~! Seedlings of A. thaliana ecotype Col-0 (WT), and transgenic plants 35S::NPR1-GFP, 35S::npr1C82A-GFP, 35S::npr1C216A-GFP (Kinkema et al., [B23]; Mou et al., [B31]) were grown in 24-well plates in 400 μL of MS liquid medium (Clay et al., [B6]) for 10 days in a cycle of 10 h days (120 μE m−2 s−1, 22°C) and 14 h nights (22°C) at 70% relative humidity. MS liquid medium in the wells was changed on the 7th day. The plants were treated directly in the wells of plates by changing the growing medium for the chemical-containing medium. 10-day-old seedlings were treated for 6 h with 50 μM and 250 μM salicylic acid sodium salt (Sigma; NaSA), 0.1 and 1% n-butanol (Sigma) or t-butanol (Penta). The whole seedlings from three wells were immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen. The tissue was homogenized in tubes with 1 g of 1.3 mm silica beads using a FastPrep-24 instrument (MP Biomedicals, CA, USA). RNA isolation and reverse transcription were performed as previously described (Sasek et al., [B44]). An equivalent of 6.25 ng of RNA was loaded into a 10 μl reaction with qPCR mastermix EvaLine—E1LC (GeneOn, Ludwigshafen am Rhein, Germany). The reactions were performed in polycarbonate capillaries (Genaxxon, Ulm, Germany) and a LightCycler 1.5 (Roche). The following PCR program was used for PCR assays: 95°C for 10 min; 45 cycles: 95°C for 10 s, 55°C for 10 s, and 72°C for 10 s; finished with a melting curve analysis. Threshold cycles and melting curves were calculated using LightCycler Software 4.1 (Roche). Alternatively, the LightCycler® 480 SYBR Green I master kit was used. The reactions were performed in the LightCycler® 480 Multiwell Plate 96 white. The following PCR program was used for PCR assays: 95°C for 10 min; 45 cycles: 95°C for 20 s, 55°C for 20 s, and 72°C for 10 s; finished with a melting curve analysis. The threshold cycles and melting curves were calculated using LightCycler Software 4.2 (Roche). The relative transcription was calculated with the efficiency correction and normalization (Czechowski et al., [B63]). The primers were designed using PerlPrimer v1.1.17 (Marshall, [B27]). The list of A. thaliana genes and corresponding accession numbers and primers follows: SAND, AT2G28390, FP: 5′CTG TCT TCT CAT CTC TTG TC 3′, RP: 5′ TCT TGC AAT ATG GTT CCT G 3′, PR-1, AT2G14610, FP: 5′ AGT TGT TTG GAG AAA GTC AG 3′, RP: 5′ GTT CAC ATA ATT CCC ACG A, S3H, AT4G10500, FP: 5′GGA TGA TAA ATG GGT CGC T 3′, RP: 5′TGT TTA CTA CGG CTC TAT GG 3′; WRKY38, AT5G22570, FP: 5′GCC CCT CCA AGA AAA GAA AG 3′, RP: 5′ CCT CCA AAG ATA CCC GTC GT 3′, ICS1 AT1G74710 FP: 5′GCA AGA ATC ATG TTC CTA CC 3′, RP: 5′AAT TAT CCT GCT GTT ACG AG 3′. The slide with seedlings was positioned onto an inverted platform (with a cover slip at the bottom) of the confocal laser scanning Zeiss LSM 5 DUO microscope. The GFP fluorescence was excited by the 488 nm line of a laser, the DAPI fluorescence was excited by the 405 nm line. The epidermal cells were viewed using an Zeiss Plan-Apochromat 20x/0,8 objective. The emitted light was captured using the HFT405/488 beam splitter and a 505–550 nm or 420–480 nm band-pass filter, respectively. Image analysis was performed using the software APS Asess 2.0. The extraction procedure was modified according to Vaclavik et al. ([B49]). Whole seedlings from three independent wells were immediately frozen using liquid nitrogen. Six independent samples for one type of treatment were prepared for one biological replicate. 150–250 mg of plant tissue was homogenized in tubes with 1 g of 1.3 mm silica beads using a FastPrep-24 instrument (MP Biomedicals, CA, USA). After the addition of 700 μL of methanol (p.a.; PENTA), the plant tissue was homogenized again. The silica beads were washed once with 700 μL methanol and both extracts were combined. The samples were kept on ice during the extraction. Prior to instrumental analysis, the samples were stored in a dark and dry environment at −70°C. The UHPLC–Q-TOF-MS analyses were performed using an Acquity Ultra-Performance LC system coupled to a Synapt G2 high definition mass spectrometer (Waters, USA). The LC separation was performed by an Acquity UPLC® HSS T3 column (100 × 1.8 mm, 1.7 μm particle size; Waters, USA). The gradient elution was used with the mobile phases consisting of (A) 0.1% formic acid in Milli-Q water and (B) 0.1% formic acid in methanol. The Synapt G2 HD instrument was operated in the negative electrospray ionization (ESI) mode. The parameter settings used during the measurements were as follows: capillary voltage (−700 V), cone voltage (−25 V), source temperature (120°C), and desolvation temperature (350°C). Nitrogen was used as both desolvation and cone gas at a flow rate of 800 and 10 L/h, respectively. Both full MS and MS/MS fragmentation mass spectra were acquired at a rate of two spectra per second in the range m/z 50–1000. In order to diminish any possible time dependent changes in the UHPLC-MS chromatographic fingerprints, the sequence of the samples was randomized and one sample was chosen as a quality control sample, which was injected after every set of 20 samples. The MassLynx 4.1 software (Waters, USA) was used for data acquisition and the MarkerLynx software (Waters, USA) was used for data mining and processing. The software SIMCA (v. 13.0, Umetrics, Sweden) was then used for data processing based on Principal Components Analysis (PCA). Values are expressed as means ± standard error (SE). For statistical analysis, Student's t-test or One-Way ANOVA followed by Fisher's Least-Significant-Difference (LSD) were used as appropriate, with a value P < 0.05 considered significant for mean differences using STATGRAPHICS® Centurion XVII software.
