!~ABS~! Ultraviolet-B radiation acts as an environmental stimulus, but in high doses it has detrimental effects on plant metabolism. Plasma membranes represent a major target for Reactive Oxygen Species (ROS) generated by this harmful radiation. Oxidative reactions occurring in the apoplastic space are counteracted by antioxidative systems mainly involving ascorbate and, to some extent, glutathione. The occurrence of the latter and its exact role in the extracellular space are not well documented, however. In Arabidopsis thaliana, the gamma-glutamyl transferase isoform (GGT1) bound to the cell wall takes part in the so-called gamma-glutamyl cycle for extracellular glutathione degradation and recovery, and may be implicated in redox sensing and balance. In this work, oxidative conditions were imposed with Ultraviolet-B radiation (UV-B) and studied in redox altered ggt1 mutants. The response of ggt1 knockout Arabidopsis leaves to UV-B radiation was assessed by investigating changes in extracellular glutathione and ascorbate content and their redox state, and in apoplastic protein composition. Our results show that, on UV-B exposure, soluble antioxidants respond to the oxidative conditions in both genotypes. Rearrangements occur in their apoplastic protein composition, suggesting an involvement of Hydrogen Peroxide (H2O2), which may ultimately act as a signal. Other important changes relating to hormonal effects, cell wall remodeling, and redox activities are discussed. We argue that oxidative stress conditions imposed by UV-B and disruption of the gamma-glutamyl cycle result in similar stress-induced responses, to some degree at least. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD001807.
!~RES~! An increase in GGT enzymatic activity was found in wt plants after UV-B irradiation; this increase was greater in total leaf extracts (+35%, Table [T1]) than in ECWF (+10%, Figure [F1]). Activity in the mutant was significantly lower in total leaf extracts and almost undetectable in the ECWF (as was to be expected because GGT1 is the only apoplastic isoform active in leaves), but no significant differences were observed after UV-B exposure (Figure [F1]). GGT activity, ascorbate, GSH and cys-gly content in total leaf extract. Values are the mean ± S.E. of 4 biological replicates from 3 technical replicates. For GGT activity, the reference value of the wild type control was 50.43 mU/g FW. Asterisks indicate P ≤ 0.05. GGT activity (A), glutathione (B), ascorbate (C) and cys-gly (D) in ECWF. Gray bars show total content, white bars oxidized forms. Reported values are the mean ± S.E. of 3 technical replicates, each conducted with at least 4 biological replicates. Different letters indicate significant differences between conditions (P = 0.05*; P = 0.01**; P = 0.001***). For GGT activity, the reference value of the wild type control was 43.05 mU/mL ECWF. Ascorbate was only found in its reduced form in total leaf extracts, and was increased by UV-B treatment (by approximately 20–30%) in both genotypes (Table [T1]). We found no reduction in the ascorbate in the apoplastic space, where we could only measure the oxidized form, dehydroascorbate (Figure [F1]). We found no significant differences between the genotypes or treatments in the total glutathione or cys-gly content in total leaf extract (Table [T1]). In ECWF total glutathione content was higher in the ggt1 mutant than in the wild type; and supplementing UV-B radiation did not alter these values (Figure [F1]). GSSG was lower in the ECWF from wt leaves under UV-B treatment, whereas oxidized cys-gly increased significantly under the same conditions (Figures [F1]). It should be noted that apoplastic glutathione is only a small fraction of total leaf glutathione, so fluctuations in the apoplast are somewhat diluted during the extraction process. For the same reason, variations in the small amount of extracellular DHA may not have been reflected in total leaf extracts. In total, 329 proteins were uniquely identified by the LC-MS/MS analyses; 208 were found in at least two biological replicates. Based on the Gene Ontology (GO) assignment for cellular compartmentalization (Uniprot 14, www.uniprot.org), we restricted our analysis to the 118 proteins that were either apoplastic or unlocalized, accounting for approximately 57% of the total. Should be considered bearing in mind that several truly extracellular proteins have yet to be properly assigned to the apoplast. In fact, it has been reported (Agrawal et al., [B1]; Ding et al., [B14]) that about 50% of proteins secreted in the apoplast lack a leaderless secretory tag;. There are consequently many unpredicted secretory proteins in plants, and their occurrence is often underestimated or they are even considered improperly as contaminants. Our decision to restrict our assignments according to the Uniprot database was therefore rigorous, but probably led to an underestimation of the truly apoplastic proteins. The variations considered were further restricted to proteins exhibiting an at least ±50% fold change in expression. Various information can be drawn from comparisons between the four experimental conditions: (i) the effect of UV-B treatment on each genotype; (ii) differential apoplastic protein composition in ggt1 vs. wt; (iii) possible differences in the behavior of the ggt1 mutant and the wt under UV-B. Comparing the two genotypes, 23 proteins were downregulated and only three were upregulated in ggt1 by comparison with the wt under physiological conditions (Table [T2] and Data Sheet [SM1], Supplementary Material). UV-B treatment resulted in 8 proteins being downregulated in ggt1; and in 12 being downregulated and 11 being upregulated in the wt. When the ggt1 and wt were compared after UV-B treatment, it emerged that 9 proteins were expressed less, and 10 were expressed more in the mutant than in the wild type. A condensed view of all these variations is given in Table [T2]. Brief overview of expression changes in apoplastic and unlocalized proteins in the four conditions analyzed: wt (UV-B/ctrl), ggt1 (UV-B/ctrl), ctrl (ggt1/wt), and UV-B (ggt1/wt). To facilitate the interpretation of the results, we ran a bioinformatic analysis with Blast2GO, a tool for the functional annotation of sequences and data mining, based on the GO vocabulary (Conesa and Götz, [B9]). This made it easy to assess and visualize the relative abundance of functional terms (obtained from the pool of GO terms) in the category of biological processes, based on a score assigned by the Blast2GO algorithm. Within the category of biological processes, the GO terms involved under the four conditions, and either down- or upregulated, are shown in Figures [F2], [F3], respectively. GO terms distribution in the biological process of downregulated proteins. Black bars shows wt (UV-B/ctrl), dark gray bars ggt1 (UV-B/ ctrl), light gray is ctrl (ggt1/wt), and white bars is UV-B (ggt1/wt). GO terms distribution in the biological process of upregulated proteins. Black bars shows wt (UV-B/ctrl), dark gray bars ggt1 (UV-B/ ctrl), light gray is ctrl (ggt1/wt), and white bars is UV-B (ggt1/wt). Based on the Blast2GO scores, UV-B in both the wild type and the ggt1 mutant mainly seem to cause a lower expression of proteins in the “metabolic process” and “response to stimulus” categories (Figure [F2]). Far fewer proteins were upregulated, but the analysis as a whole again showed that the “response to stimulus” and “metabolic process” categories scored highest, but only after the UV-B treatment in both genotypes (Figure [F3]). Based on the results shown in Table [T2], the variations observed were functionally grouped as explained below. For the sake of simplicity, the proteins listed in Table [T2] were divided into 4 broad categories, but many of those described here could have been placed in more than one category (depending on whether we considered the protein's biological function or its catalytic activity, for instance). Gibberellins are hormones that can be found in the apoplastic space too (Kramer, [B29]). Here, we found the gibberellin-regulated protein Q9LFR3 (At5g14920) upregulated by UV-B treatment in the mutant. Among the proteins targeted by hormones there is a galactose-binding domain containing protein (At5g25460, Q94F20) with a putative function in response to karrikins, a novel group of plant growth regulators (Nelson et al., [B39]). This protein is downregulated in the wild type under UV-B treatment, and in the ggt1 mutant in physiological conditions. By comparison with the wild type, two pathogen-related proteins are less expressed in the ggt1 mutant, i.e., PR-1 (At2g14610) and PR-5 (At1g75040), reportedly regulated by brassinosteroids (Sävenstrand et al., [B53]). Another protein involved in lipid catabolism and response to pathogens is a GDSL esterase/lipase (At3g16370) that is expressed more in the ggt1 mutant than in the wild type under UV-B. Proteolytic enzymes are directly or indirectly involved in several plant cellular processes, including resistance to pathogens and disease (Xia et al., [B63]). In our study, we identified four members of the aspartyl protease family, a class of enzymes acting as endopeptidases to remove aspartic residues from polypeptide chains. One of them (At1g03220) is downregulated in the wild type after UV-B treatment, and in the ggt1 mutant in physiological conditions. This protein and At1g09750 are both upregulated in ggt1 by comparison with the wild type as an effect of UV-B treatment. At5g07030 is downregulated under UV-B in the mutant, and At5g10760 is downregulated in the mutant under control conditions. It could be hard to explain these opposite effects in the expression of members of the same aspartyl protease family, but it is worth noting that these enzymes are reportedly involved in plant defenses and development (Minic et al., [B37]). Up to 90% of plant cell walls consist of three types of polysaccharide: cellulose, hemicelluloses, and pectins. Their composition and structure differ from one species to another, and change as plants develop and with environmental fluctuations (Cosgrove, [B10]; Popper and Fry, [B44]; Minic et al., [B37]). Six proteins belonging to the class of glycoside hydrolases are downregulated by UV-B radiation in the wild type (At2g28470, At5g08380, At4g19410, At5g06870, At4g19810, and At5g08370) while another six proteins are upregulated (At3g14310, At2g45470, At3g57260, At4g30270, At5g20950, and At2g18660). Comparing the ggt1 mutant with the wild type clearly revealed a constitutive downregulation of proteins related to cell wall remodeling (At4g19410, At4g24780, At5g20950, and At2g43570). One of them is downregulated both in the mutant under physiological conditions and in the wild type after UV-B treatment. An opposite response to UV-B radiation emerged for beta-glucosidase At3g57260, which was higher in the wild type, and lower in ggt1 after the treatment. UV-B radiation resulted in a lower expression in the ggt1 mutant of other cell wall remodeling proteins, namely α-arabinofuranosidase At3g10740, α-xylosidase At1g68560, and the berberine bridge enzyme At5g44400. We also found a lower expression of chitinase At2g43570 in the ggt1 mutant than in the wild type both under physiological conditions and after treatment with UV-B. In this study, we observed changes in four proteins containing leucine-rich repeats, and in two cysteine-rich secretory proteins belonging to a class acting as kinases. Leucine- and cysteine-rich proteins are transmembrane proteins that are reportedly induced by ROS and salicylic acid (Brandes et al., [B5]). All leucine-rich proteins were downregulated in the mutant (At1g33600, At5g12940, At1g33590, and At3g20820) under physiological conditions. It seems particularly interesting that At1g33590 expression was also downregulated in the wild type under UV-B radiation. The two cysteine-rich repeat secretory proteins, At3g22060 and At5g48540, were both downregulated in the ggt1 mutant under physiological conditions. These proteins are also PM-associated receptor-like kinases, and At3g22060 interacts with one or more unknown PM-localized ABA receptor(s) (Xin et al., [B64]), whereas At5g48540 is involved in response to karrikins (Nelson et al., [B39]). The EG45-like domain containing protein (At2g18660) is part of a class of small proteins that act as signaling molecules. In our study, At2g18660 was upregulated in the wild type under UV-B. One protein (At1g31690) involved in response to oxidative stress was downregulated under UV-B in the wild type. This protein is involved in H2O2 metabolism, acting as an oxidase. Also Peroxidase 34 (At3g49120) was downregulated in the ggt1 mutant under control conditions. Two Glutathione S-Transferases (GSTs) proteins belonging to categories F2 and F9 (At4g02520 and At2g30860, respectively) were upregulated in the wild type plants after UV-B radiation. When the two genotypes were compared after the same treatment, the expression level was lower in the former. Two proteins in the germin-like family (At5g20630 and At1g02335) were downregulated in ggt1, one in physiological conditions and the other after UV-B treatment. These proteins are involved in defending against biotic and environmental stress. Superoxide dismutase proteins are reportedly involved in removing superoxide radicals from the apoplast following UV-B radiation (Alscher et al., [B3]). In our study, the expression of superoxide dismutase (At4g25100) was upregulated in the wild type after UV-B radiation and in ggt1 under physiological conditions.
!~MM~! Seeds of A. thaliana and a ggt1 knockout mutant line, both Columbia ecotype (Col-0), were sterilized and incubated at 4°C in the dark for 4 days to synchronize germination and ensure a uniform growth. The ggt1 knockout mutant was established in the mutant collection identified by the Salk Institute (Alonso et al., [B2]), and was obtained from the Nottingham A. thaliana Stock Centre (http://nasc.nott.ac.uk; polymorphism SALK_080363). Seeds were sown in soil pots and grown in a greenhouse. For the UV-B radiation experiments, plants in the phase of maximum expansion of the rosette (before bolting) were transferred to a climatic cell 2 days before the treatment to enable their acclimation. The growth chamber settings were: 12/12 h light/dark cycle, 21/21°C temperature, 300 μmol m−2 s−1 photosynthetically active radiation, and 60% relative humidity. The UV-B treatment was applied for 8 h at the beginning of the light period. The radiation was provided by two Philips TL40W/12 lamps with an intensity, measured on a level with the plants, of 8.3 kJ m−2 d−1 (UVBBE, biologically effective UV-B). After the 8 h UV-B treatment, leaves were immediately harvested for ECWF and total leaf extraction. Following, both the infiltrate and the leaf extracts were analyzed for ascorbate content by spectrophotometric method, as described, the same day. Aliquots of the extracts were stored in −80° for thiol measurements. ECWF were extracted by vacuum infiltration according to Lohaus et al. ([B32]). About 1 g of fresh leaves were cut, rinsed, immersed in infiltration buffer and vacuum-infiltrated for 10 min at 20 kPa. After infiltration, the leaves were blot-dried, weighed and placed vertically in a 5 ml syringe. The syringes were placed in tubes and centrifuged at 200 g, 4°C for 20 min. Apoplastic fluids were collected from the bottom of the tubes. For ascorbate and thiol extraction, 10 μl 0.1N HCl were placed at the bottom of the tubes before centrifugation to prevent oxidation. The composition of the infiltration buffer used for the ascorbate and thiol measurements was: KH2PO4 50 mM, KCl 50 mM, and EDTA 2.5 mM, pH 4.5. For the GGT activity and proteomic analyses, the infiltration buffer contained: KH2PO4 50 mM, KCl 0.2 M, and PMSF 1 mM, pH 6.2. The contamination level of the extracts obtained with the infiltration/centrifugation technique was assessed by means of malic dehydrogenase activity measurements, and ranged between 1.6 and 2.5% among the replicate extractions (data not shown). Total leaf extraction for the thiol, ascorbate and Dehydroascorbate (DHA) measurements was done using metaphosphoric acid 1.5% and EDTA 1 mM buffer: 1 g of fresh leaves were powdered in a mortar with liquid nitrogen and extracted in a leaves to buffer ratio of 1:4, then centrifuged at 10'000 rpm for 10 min at 4°C. The same extraction procedure was used for total GGT activity, but using the infiltration buffer. Ascorbate and dehydroascorbate were measured by spectrophotometric analysis following the decrease in absorbance at 265 nm according to Hewitt and Dickes ([B20]). To measure total thiol concentration extracts, 50 μL of total leaf extract and ECWF were derivatized with 4-fluoro-7-sulfobenzofurazan ammonium salt fluorophore (SBD-F) (Dojindo, Japan). Low Molecular Weight (LMW) thiols were separated by isocratic High pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) using the method described elsewhere (Masi et al., [B35]) with some modifications. The mobile phase was 75 mM ammonium-formiate, pH 2.9 and 3% methanol (97:3, vol/vol). For oxidized thiol quantification, samples were pre-treated with 2-vinylpyridine according to Griffith ([B16]), then buffered to basic pH and treated with 2-vinylpyridine for 1 h to protect the free thiol moieties. Afterwards, the samples were washed to remove the resulting complexes, and the remaining unreacted samples (containing the oxidized thiols) were derivatized and analyzed by HPLC. GGT activity was determined spectrophotometrically according to Huseby and Stromme ([B23]). Leaf extracts were reacted in a mix of solution A (5 mM g-glutamyl-p-nitroanilide 100 mM NaH2PO4, pH 8.0) and solution B (575 mM gly-gly in 100 mM NaH2PO4, pH 8.0) in a ratio of 10:1. Absorbance was recorded for 1 h at 407 nm to measure p-nitroaniline release into the assay medium. After checking for a normal distribution, data were tested with One-Way ANOVA using the General linear models (GLM) procedure in SAS (SAS 9.2, 2008). Data with a non-normal distribution were submitted to a non-parametric test (Kruskal-Wallis) using XLSTAT (2014 version). In both cases, Bonferroni's test was used to ascertain differences between means. Significance was established at P = 0.05. Proteins obtained from infiltration were quantified by bicinchoninic acid spectrophotometric assay; 50 μg of proteins were loaded in a homemade 11% Sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) gel and the electrophoretic run was stopped as soon as the protein extracts entered the running gel. Bands were excised and washed several times with 50 mM triethylammonium bicarbonate (TEAB) and dried under vacuum after a short acetonitrile wash. Cysteines were reduced with 10 mM dithiothreitol (in 50 mM TEAB) for 1 h at 56°C, and alkylated with 55 mM iodoacetamide (in 50 mM TEAB) for 45 min at room temperature in the dark. Gel pieces were then washed with alternate steps of TEAB and acetonitrile, and dried. Proteins were digested in situ with sequencing grade modified trypsin (Promega, Madison, WI, USA) at 37°C overnight (12.5 ng·μl−1 trypsin in 50 mM TEAB). Peptides were extracted with three steps of 50% acetonitrile in water. One μg of each sample was withdrawn to check digestion efficiency using LC-MS/MS analysis, and the remaining peptide solution was dried under vacuum. Peptides were labeled with iTRAQ reagents (ABSciex) according to the manufacturer's instructions. They were labeled with the four iTRAQ tags using a Latin panel strategy: wt UV-B, ggt1 UV-B, wt ctrl, and ggt1 ctrl were labeled respectively with 114, 115, 116, and 117 tags in the first replicate; 115, 116, 117, 114 tags in the second and 116, 117, 114, 115 tags in the third. Prior to mixing the samples in a 1:1:1:1 ratio, 1 μg of each sample was analyzed separately to check label efficiency by LC-MS/MS analysis, setting the iTRAQ labeling as a variable modification in the database search. All the peptides were correctly identified as being iTRAQ-modified at the N-terminus and at each lysine residue. The samples were then pooled and dried under vacuum. The mixture of labeled samples (one per replicate) was suspended in 500 μl of buffer A (10 mM KH2PO4, 25% acetonitrile, pH 2.9) and loaded onto a strong cation exchange cartridge (AB Sciex) for fractionation according to (Tolin et al., [B60]). After a washing step with buffer A, the peptides were eluted stepwise with increasing concentrations of KCl in buffer A (25, 50, 100, 200, and 350 mM). The volume of each fraction (500 μl) was reduced under vacuum, and the samples were desalted using C18 cartridges (Sep-Pack, C18, Waters) according to the manufacturer's instructions. The samples were ultimately dried under vacuum and kept at −20°C until MS analysis. Samples were suspended in H2O/0.1% formic acid and analyzed by LC-MS/MS. The MS analyses were conducted with a LTQ-Orbitrap XL mass spectrometer (Thermo Fisher Scientific, Pittsburgh, CA, USA) coupled online with a nano-HPLC Ultimate 3000 (Dionex - Thermo Fisher Scientific). Samples were loaded in a homemade 10 cm chromatographic column packed into a pico-frit (75 mm id, 10 mm tip, New Objectives) with C18 material (ReproSil, 300 Å, 3 μm). The LC separation and mass spectrometer settings used for the analyses were the same as those described in Tolin et al. ([B60]), and the method was as described by Köcher et al. ([B28]). The raw LC-MS/MS files were analyzed using Proteome Discoverer 1.4 (Thermo Fisher Scientific), connected to a Mascot Search Engine server (version 2.2.4, Matrix Science, London, UK). The spectra were searched against a ARATH Uniprot protein database. Enzyme specificity was set to trypsin with two missed cleavages, and peptide and fragment tolerance was set to 10 ppm and 0.6 Da, respectively. Methylthiocysteine, 4-plex iTRAQ at the N-terminus and Lys were set as fixed modifications, while Met oxidation was selected as a variable modification. False discovery rates (FDR) were calculated by the software, based on the search against the corresponding randomized database. Only proteins identified and quantified with at least 2 unique peptides with 99% confidence (FDR 1%) were considered as positive identifications. A 5% FDR was adopted in only two cases (as shown in Table 2 and in Data Sheet [SM1], Supplementary Material), in which the MS/MS spectra were manually inspected for confirmation. Data were pre-filtered to exclude MS/MS spectra containing less than 5 peaks or with a total ion count below 50. Quantification was done by normalizing the results on the median value of all measured iTRAQ reporter ratios. Protein expression ratios are given as: wt (UV-B/ctrl), ggt1 (UV-B/ctrl), ctrl (ggt1/wt), and UV-B (ggt1/wt) and they are the mean value of at least 2 biological replicates (see Data Sheet [SM2], [SM3], [SM4], Supplementary Material). To improve the statistical robustness of the data, all proteins were submitted to a two-tailed Z test with a confidence level of p < 0.05. The variations were further restricted to proteins exhibiting an at least ±50% fold change in their expression (1.5 for upregulated and 0.68 for downregulated proteins).
