!~ABS~! Complex I dysfunction causes reorganization of cellular respiration and affects metabolic processes in mitochondria, plastids, peroxisomes, and other cellular compartments with drastic consequences for growth and development.
!~RES~! To investigate the consequences of the absence of complex I on the mitochondrial compartment, comparative proteome analyses of wt and ca1ca2 mitochondria isolated from cell culture lines were performed. Proteins were separated by 2D IEF/SDS PAGE and spot volumes were systematically compared using the Delta 2D software package (Decodon, Greifswald). Volumes of 121 spots were significantly altered, with a fold change of >1.5 (P-value < 0.01) between wt and ca1ca2 lines. Forty-four spots had higher volume in the ca1ca2 mutant, whereas 77 spot volumes were increased in wt (reduced in ca1ca2) ([F1]). All 121 spots were analysed by mass spectrometry. After applying a MASCOT threshold score of 60, overall a total of 288 identified proteins were included in further analyses. More than one protein was identified for several spots. Changes in volume were only assigned to a specific protein if a spot only included one main protein. This further reduced the number of unambiguously changed proteins to 106. Sixty-six of these proteins were of decreased abundance in the mutant and 40 of increased abundance. These proteins were annotated according to their functional context (Supplemantary Table S1 at JXB online). Comparative analysis of the mitochondrial proteomes of Arabidopsis wt and ca1ca2 lines. Mitochondria were isolated as described in the Materials and Methods. Total mitochondrial protein was separated by 2D IEF/SDS PAGE and proteins were stained by Coomassie blue. Three replicates were produced per line and used for the calculation of master gels (Delta 2D software package, Decodon, Germany). The molecular masses of standard proteins are given to the left of the 2-D gel (in kDa). Isoelectric focusing range is from pH 3 (left) to pH 11 (right). Proteins indicated in pink are more abundant in the mutant (>1.5-fold increase); proteins indicated in green are less abundant in the mutant (>1.5-fold decrease). Spots indicated by numbers were identified by mass spectrometry (for results see Supplementary Table S1). As expected, many proteins of reduced abundance were complex I subunits (15 proteins). We did not find all the complex I proteins because 2D IEF/SDS PAGE does not allow separation of very hydrophobic proteins. Reduction of complex I subunits was on average 5-fold. It was shown previously by [CIT0021]et al. (2016c ) that complex I is completely absent in the mutant (Supplemantary Fig. S1); however, non-assembled subunits may be present in mitochondria. Furthermore, reduction of levels of complex I subunits can be expected to be even higher because nearly all spots included not only one main protein but also in addition some proteins of low abundance, which probably were of unchanged or not much changed abundance. As a consequence, fold-changes in general might be slightly higher than determined in the frame of our study. Other proteins of reduced abundance in the mutant are involved in the central mitochondrial metabolism whereas many proteins of increased abundance play roles in transport or stress response processes ([T1]). Relative spot volumes of altered proteins involved in defined functional processes in ca1ca2 mutant lines. Proteins were separated by 2D IEF/SDS PAGE ([F1]), normalized spot volumes of differential OXPHOS subunits were summed up and relative spot volumes were calculated by the Delta 2D software package Detailed evaluation of the dataset revealed the following. Changes in abundance of TCA cycle enzymes were not uniform. We found subunits of citrate synthase (AT2G44350), malate dehydrogenase (AT3G15020), and succinyl-CoA ligase (AT5G08300) of decreased abundance in the ca1ca2 mutant, whereas a subunit of the oxoglutarate dehydrogenase complex (AT5G55070) was increased. Glutamate dehydrogenase (AT5G18170) was also increased in the mutant. Notably, several subunits of the TIM translocase were increased (TIM8, TIM9, TIM23). Several of the most induced proteins in the mutant are involved in plant stress responses. Some of the proteins of changed abundance were subunits of the remaining OXPHOS complexes II–V. Again, not all of the subunits were identified because many of them are very hydrophobic and not resolvable by 2D IEF/SDS PAGE. It became apparent that several complex IV subunits are clearly induced. To get a more complete impression on how the mutant is altered with respect to the OXPHOS system, we next compared mitochondrial fractions of wt and ca1ca2 lines using 2D BN/SDS PAGE, a gel electrophoresis system known to be particularly suitable for analysing membrane-bound proteins and protein complexes. As previously reported, the ca1ca2 mutant shows changes in the activities of complex II and complex IV ([CIT0021]et al., 2016c ). In order to evaluate changes in the amounts of the OXPHOS complexes II–V in the absence of complex I in more detail, comparative proteome experiments by 2D BN/SDS PAGE were performed with mitochondrial membrane fractions of wt and ca1ca2 cell culture lines. The comparisons were based on two methods: (i) Delta 2D-mediated comparison of 2-D gels, and (ii) fluorophore based comparison (2D DIGE). Visual inspection of the 2D BN/SDS gels used for Delta 2D comparison clearly revealed the absence of complex I and the I+III2 supercomplex in the mutant ([F2]). On the resulting overlay image ([F2]) the complexes III2 and V are more-or-less unchanged, while the complexes II and IV are clearly increased in the mutant. Average spot volumes were calculated for each complex in the two fractions using the Delta 2D software ([F2], [T2]). The following amounts of the OXPHOS complexes were found for the mutant (wt=100%): complex II, 133%; complex III, 108%; complex IV, 200%; and complex V, 107%. Proteins within 16 spots were analysed by MS (Supplemantary Table S2) and all revealed the expected identifications (see the 2D BN/SDS GelMap of the Arabidopsis mitochondrial proteome for comparison, https://gelmap.de/1227). Comparative analysis of the mitochondrial membrane proteomes of Arabidopsis wt and ca1ca2 lines. Mitochondria were isolated as described in the Materials and methods. Mitochondrial membrane proteins were separated by 2D BN/SDS PAGE and proteins were stained by colloidal Coomassie (A). Three replicates were produced per fraction and used for the calculation of a master gel (Delta 2D software package, Decodon, Germany) (B). The molecular masses of standard proteins are given to the left of the 2-D gels (in kDa). OXPHOS complexes are boxed in (B); their identities are given above the gels (I, complex I; V, complex V; III2, dimeric complex III; I+III2, supercomplex formed of complex I and dimeric complex III; F1, F1 part of complex V; IV, complex IV; II, complex II). Proteins indicated in pink are less abundant in the mutant (>1.5-fold decrease); proteins indicated in green are more abundant in the mutant (>1.5-fold increase). Spots indicated by numbers were identified by mass spectrometry (for results see Supplementary Table S2). Relative spot volumes of OXPHOS complexes in ca1ca2 lines. Proteins were separated by 2D BN/SDS PAGE ([F2]), normalized spot volumes of differential OXPHOS subunits were summed up and relative spot volumes were calculated by the Delta 2D software package * not detectable A more extended comparison of the mitochondrial membrane proteomes of mutant and wt cell lines was carried out based on 2D BN/SDS DIGE ([F3], Supplemantary Table S3). Spots differing in volumes between the two fractions were analysed by MS. After applying a MASCOT threshold score of 60, overall 147 identified proteins were included in further analyses; however, a difference in spot volume only could be assigned to a specific protein if a spot included only one main protein. This further reduced the number of unambiguously changed proteins to 44. These were grouped according to functional context. Changes of individual subunits of OXPHOS complexes were in accordance with the results of the Delta 2D analysis. In addition, several other membrane proteins were found to be of changed abundance in the mutant. Seven subunits of the TIM and TOM transport machineries and one ABC transporter were identified. All were more abundant in the ca1ca2 mutant. Comparative analysis of the mitochondrial membrane proteomes of Arabidopsis wt and ca1ca2 lines by differential gel electrophoresis (DIGE). Mitochondria were isolated as described in the Materials and Methods. Mitochondrial membrane proteins of wt and ca1ca2 were labeled with different CyDyes and separated by 2D BN/SDS PAGE. Proteins were stained by colloidal Coomassie (A). The same gel was used for fluorescence detection of the two CyDyes (B). The molecular masses of standard proteins are given to the left of the 2-D gel (in kDa). The identities of selected mitochondrial protein complexes are given above the gels (I, complex I; V, complex V; III2, dimeric complex III; I+III2, supercomplex formed of complex I and dimeric complex III; F1, F1 part of complex V; IV, complex IV; II, complex II). Proteins indicated in red are less abundant in the ca1ca2 mutant (>1.5-fold decrease) and proteins indicated in green are more abundant in the ca1ca2 mutant (>1.5-fold increase). Proteins given in yellow are not changed in abundance. Spots indicated by numbers were identified by mass spectrometry (for results see Supplementary Table S3). Note: if compared to the comparative experiment shown in [F2], several subunits of OXPHOS complexes appear to be absent in the DIGE approach. This is due to the fact that CyDye labeling takes place at native conditions. As a consequence, only proteins exposed to the surface of protein complexes are labeled. In contrast, image evaluation based on the Delta 2D approach ([F2]) allows visualization of all subunits of a protein complex. In addition to effects on the mitochondrial compartment, the consequences of ca1ca2 deletion at the whole-plant level were investigated. Wild type and ca1ca2 mutant plants were harvested at a comparable growth stage and differential protein abundances were analysed by comparative quantitative shotgun MS (note that growth and development of ca1ca2 plants is much delayed; see [CIT0021]et al., 2016c). The experiment was based on five biological replicates. In total, 2233 different proteins were identified. The quantitative analysis of identified proteins was carried out using MaxQuant. After application of a –log10 P-value (P>1.31), 318 proteins of changed amounts were confirmed (Supplemantary Table S4) and were included in further analyses. The proteins were assigned into categories according to subcellular localization and functional context. Subcellular localization was assigned according to SUBAcon ([F4]). Most of the identified proteins are localized in the cytosol (30.4%), followed by plastids (29.4%), mitochondria (15.2%), and other compartments with minor contributions ([F4]). Proteins of increased abundance in ca1ca2 plants are mostly localized in the cytosol (44.1%) and mitochondria (19.8%) ([F4]). In contrast, proteins of decreased abundance in ca1ca2 plants are mostly localized in plastids (62.3%) ([F4]). Subcellular localization of proteins of altered abundances in the ca1ca2 line as obtained by label free quantitative shotgun proteomics. Total protein was extracted from wt and ca1ca2 mutant plants at a similar developmental stage. Proteins were identified and quantified by shotgun MS (for details see the Material and Methods). Predicted localizations of proteins of changed abundances between the two lines were obtained from the SUBA3 database (http://suba3.plantenergy.uwa.edu.au/). (A) Predicted localization of all proteins changed (P-value <0.05). (B) Predicted localization of proteins more abundant in ca1ca2 compared to wt. (C) Predicted localization of proteins less abundant in ca1ca2 mutant compared to wt. Numbers indicate amounts relative to the sum of altered protein species (%). Assignment of proteins differing in amount between wt and ca1ca2 mutant plants to functional categories was carried out according to TAIR functional annotations (https://www.arabidopsis.org/, TAIR10 genome release) and evaluated by MapMan ([F5], [T3]). Proteins especially induced in mutant plants are involved in glycolysis, fermentation, the TCA cycle, amino acid metabolism, redox regulation, protein folding, as well as stress responses (Supplemantary Table S4). Decreased protein abundances in ca1ca2 plants were mainly found in the functional categories of photosynthesis (photosystem I, photosystem II, Calvin cycle, photorespiration) and tetrapyrrole synthesis ([F5]). As expected, complex I subunits were much decreased in the mutant. At the same time, AOX1A (AT3G22370) and alternative NADH dehydrogenase NDB2 (AT4G05020) were clearly induced. Functional annotation of proteins identified by quantitative label-free shotgun MS. The 318 proteins of differential abundances between wt and ca1ca2 mutant plants were grouped into functional BINs using MapMan. BINs are given to the right. Proteins more abundant in ca1ca2 are indicated in green and proteins that are less abundant in red (P-value <0.05). Each square represents one protein. BINs without any identified protein are with a grey dot (for results see Supplementary Table S4). Relative protein intensities of altered proteins involved in defined functional processes in ca1ca2 mutant lines analysed by label-free quantitative shotgun MS approach. Proteins were identified and quantified using MaxQuant software Finally, we analysed the BIN coverage of the identified proteins in order to assess the influence of the absence of complex I on cellular processes ([T4]). We calculated the number of identified proteins in relation to the number of genes that code for proteins of the BINs. The following BINs were most significantly changed in the mutant: fermentation (28.6%), glycolysis (15.4%), nitrogen metabolism (15.4%), TCA cycle (13.8%), photosynthesis (12.6%), tetrapyrrole synthesis (11.1%), mitochondrial ETC (7.5%), and amino acid metabolism (6.8%). The BIN coverage indicates that these cellular process are particularly affected by absence of complex I. BIN coverage of proteins of altered abundances in ca1ca2 plants as determined by label-free quantitative shotgun MS Changes in protein levels in ca1ca2 plants with respect to wildtype plants as obtained by label-free quantitative shotgun proteomics are summarized in [F6] and in the discussion below. Life without complex I. The figure is based on altered protein levels in ca1ca2 plants relative to wildtype plants as obtained by label-free quantitative shotgun proteomics. Green arrows within the grey boxes indicate increased protein levels in the double-mutant, and red arrows indicate decreased levels. Absence of complex I causes reorganization of the cellular respiration system. Since electron insertion into the first segment of the mETC is not possible, increased electron insertion at later segments takes place (induction of complexes II, IV). This requires increased oxidation of organic substrates (induction of enzymes of glycolysis, the TCA cycle, and amino acid catabolism). Mitochondrial ATP formation most likely is still reduced, which requires increased fermentation. The growth rate of the double-mutant is drastically reduced. This is reflected by reduced amounts of the two photosystems, Calvin cycle enzymes, and enzymes of the tetrapyrrole biosynthesis pathway. Furthermore, altered metabolism and electron transport pathways in the mitochondria and chloroplasts cause increased ROS formation and stress symptoms. Several components of the ROS and stress defense system are induced in the double-mutant, as is the alternative oxidase, a well-known stress indicator in plants. Note: causal events indicated by black arrows do not necessarily indicate primary effects, but may well represent indirect consequences. For further details see the discussion section.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) lines used for this study were of the Columbia ecotype. The SALK_109391 (AT1G19580, ca1/ca1) and SALK_010194 (AT1G47260, ca2/ca2) mutant lines were obtained from The European Arabidopsis Stock Centre (NASC; Loughborough, UK). ca1 and ca2 single mutants were crossed to generate ca1ca2 double-mutants ([CIT0021]et al., 2016c). Plants were grown on 0.5 Murashige and Skoog medium in climate chambers under the following conditions: 8h of light (120 µmol s−1 m−2)/16h of dark, 22 °C, 65% humidity, atmospheric CO2 concentrations. Homozygous ca1ca2 mutants were germinated and rescued by cultivation on 0.5 MS medium containing 3% (w/v) sucrose. After 6 weeks plants were transferred to soil and cultivation was continued under the same conditions without sucrose. Wildtype and double-mutant plants were harvested at the 10-rosette-leaf developmental stage, and leaves were used for proteomic analyses. Cell cultures of Arabidopsis lines were established as described by [CIT0039]. Callus was maintained as suspension culture according to [CIT0065]et al. (2006). Mitochondria from cell culture were purified by differential centrifugation and Percoll density gradient centrifugation as described by [CIT0075]et al. (2001). One-dimensional Blue Native PAGE (1D BN PAGE) was performed according to [CIT0076]et al. (2006). Mitochondrial membranes were solubilized by digitonin at a concentration of 5g g–1 mitochondrial protein ([CIT0016]et al., 2003). For subsequent SDS PAGE, BN lanes with separated protein complexes were transferred horizontally onto SDS gels. Second-dimension PAGE was carried out as outlined previously ([CIT0076]et al., 2006). Differential gel electrophoresis (DIGE), which is based on labeling of proteins with CyDyes before 2D BN/SDS PAGE, was carried out according to [CIT0054]. Two-dimensional IEF/SDS PAGE was carried out as described by [CIT0042]. For the IEF gel dimension, Immobiline DryStrip gels (24cm, non-linear gradient pH 3–11) were used. Focusing took place for 24h at 30 to 8000V using the Ettan IPGphor 3 system (GE Healthcare). For the second gel dimension, IPG stripes were equilibrated for 15min with DTT (0.4g/40ml) and then 15min with iodoacetamide (1.0g/40ml). SDS PAGE was carried out using the High Performance Electrophoresis (HPE) FlatTop Tower-System (Serva Electrophoresis) using precast Tris-Glycine gels (12.5% polyacrylamide, 24 x 20cm). Gels were fixed for 2h in 15% (v/v) ethanol, 10% (v/v) acetic acid and stained with Coomassie Brilliant Blue G250 ([CIT0047]et al., 1985, [CIT0048]). Comparative proteome analyses were based on gel triplicates and data evaluation using the Delta 2D software 4.3 (Decodon, Greifswald, Germany) according to [CIT0003]et al. (2007) and [CIT0038]et al. (2014). Tryptic digestion of proteins and their identification by mass spectrometry (MS) were performed as described by [CIT0033]et al. (2010). Peptide separation was carried out by using the EASY-nLC System (Proxeon, Thermo Scientific, Bremen, Germany) and coupled MS analyses by using the MicrOTOF-Q II mass spectrometer (Bruker Bremen, Germany). MS primary data were evaluated using the Proteinscape software package (version 2.1, Bruker, Bremen, Germany), the Mascot Search Engine (Matrix Science, London, UK), the Arabidopsis protein database (www.arabidopsis.org; release TAIR10), and an updated version of a complex I database ([CIT0033]et al., 2010) that represents a subset of the Arabidopsis TAIR10 database. The threshold Mascot Score was set to 30 or 60 for proteins and 20 for peptides. Total proteins of five biological replicates of wt and ca1ca2 leaves were extracted. Then 50 µg of protein were solubilized in 2× sample buffer [4% (w/v) SDS, 125mM Tris-HCl (pH 6.8), 20% (v/v) glycerol, and 0.5% (w/v) bromophenol blue (BPB)] and loaded on a glycine/SDS gel [10% (w/v) acrylamide in stacking gel, 14% (w/v) in separation phase]. To concentrate proteins in a single band the gel run was stopped when the BPB front reached the end of the stacking gel. Gels were then Coommassie-stained and the protein bands were extracted and transferred into low-binding Eppendorf caps (Eppendorf, Wesseling-Berzdorf, Germany). After drying in a vacuum centrifuge (Eppendorf, Wesseling-Berzdorf, Germany), gel pieces were rehydrated in 200 µl reduction solution [20mM DTT, 0.1M ammonium bicarbonate (AmBiC)] for 30min at 56 °C. Afterwards, they were dehydrated again by addition of 200 µl acetonitrile (ACN) for 10min. The supernatant was removed and alkylation of cysteine residues was achieved by incubation in 200 µl alkylating solution (55mM iodoacteamide, 0.1M AmBiC) for 30min in the dark. After ACN-dehydration for 10min the supernatant was removed and 200 µl of 0.1M AmBiC were added. After 15min of incubation the supernatant was removed and gel pieces were dehydrated by addition of ACN. After removal of residual ACN, gel pieces were dried by vacuum centrifugation for 20min. The dried gel pieces were treated with trypsin (Promega, Mannheim, Germany) solution prepared according to the manufacturer’s instruction. Eighty microliters were added to each sample, which were subsequently incubated overnight at 37 °C. Extraction of peptides was initiated by adding 40 µl of 50% (v/v) ACN, 5% (v/v) formic acid (FA) (30min, 37 °C, 800rpm). The tryptic peptide-containing supernatants were collected in new low-binding Eppendorf tubes. The procedure was repeated twice by first adding 40 µl of 50% (v/v) ACN, 1% (v/v) FA, and then 100% (v/v) ACN afterwards. The supernatants for each sample were pooled in the same Eppendorf tubes and subsequently dried using a vacuum centrifuge at 30 °C. For mass spectrometry peptides were absorbed in 20 µl 2% (v/v) ACN, 0.1% (v/v) FA. Tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) analysis was performed by means of a Q-Exactive (Thermo Fisher Scientific, Dreieich, Germany) mass spectrometer coupled to an Ultimate 3000 (Thermo Fisher Scientific, Dreieich, Germany) UPLC. Seven microliters of sample solution were drawn from 0.25-ml glass insert vials (Sun-SRI, Rockwood, TN, US) kept at 8 °C in the sample compartment and stored in a 20-µl sample loop before being injected into a 2cm, C18, 5 µm, 100 Å reverse phase trapping column (Acclaim PepMap100, Thermo Fisher Scientific, Dreieich, Germany) at a rate of 4 µl min–1. Peptide separation was achieved on a 50cm, C18, 3 µm, 100 Å reverse phase analytical column (Acclaim PepMap100, Thermo Fisher Scientific, Dreieich, Germany). Peptides were eluted using a non-linear 2% to 30% (v/v) acetonitrile gradient in 0.1% (v/v) formic acid with a flow of 300 nl min–1 over a period of 60 mins and at a set column oven temperature of 35 °C. To clean the column, the ACN concentration was subsequently raised to 95% (v/v) within 10min, where it was kept for another 15min before column equilibration to 2% (v/v) ACN commenced. Transfer of eluted peptides into the mass spectrometer was achieved by means of a NSI source (Thermo Fisher Scientific, Dreieich, Germany) using stainless steel nano-bore emitters (Thermo Fisher Scientific, Dreieich, Germany) connected to the column outlet by a 50-cm, 0.05mm ID fused silica capillary. During MS analysis spray voltage was set to 2.2kV, capillary temperature to 275 °C, and S-lens RF level to 50%. The MS was run in positive ion mode, MS/MS spectra (top 10) were recorded from 30 mins to 220min. For full MS scans, the number of microscans was set to 1, resolution to 70 000, AGC target to 1e6, maximum injection time to 400ms, number of scan ranges to 1, scan range to 400–1600 m/z, and spectrum data type to ‘profile’. For dd-MS2, the number of microscans was set to 1, resolution to 17 500, AGC target to 1e5, maximum injection time to 250ms, Loop count to 10, MSX count to 1, isolation window to 3.0 m/z, fixed first mass to 100.0 m/z, NCE to 27.0 (stepped NCE deactivated), and spectrum data type to ‘profile’. Data dependent (dd) settings were as follows: underfill ratio, 0.5%; intensity threshold, 2.0e3; apex trigger, 10 to 40s; charge exclusion, unassigned, 1, 5, 5–8, >8; peptide match, preferred; exclude isotopes, on; dynamic exclusion, 45.0s. MS/MS data were queried against an in-house TAIR10 database, modified to also include common contaminants (keratin, trypsin), MS-standards (BSA, fibrinopeptide) and known modifications of mitochondrial encoded proteins based on RNA-editing (AGIs) using Proteome Discoverer (Thermo Fisher Scientific, Dreieich, Germany). Search runs employed the Mascot (Matrix Science, London, United Kingdom), peptide selector settings employed the following spectrum properties filter: Lower Rt limit, 0; upper RT limit, 0; first scan, 0; last scan, 0; lowest charge state, 1; highest charge state, 5; min. precursor mass, 350Da; max. precursor mass, 5000Da; total intensity threshold, 0; and minimum peak count, 1. The scan event filter was adjusted to the following settings: mass analyser, ftms; ms order, MS2; activation type, HCD; min. collision energy, 0; max. collision energy, 1000; scan type, full; ionization source, nanospray; polarity mode, +. The S/N threshold was set to 1.5. For Mascot, the number of maximum missed cleavage sites was limited to 1, precursor mass tolerance to 10 ppm, and fragment mass tolerance to 0.8Da. Allowed variable modifications were oxidation of methionine residues and N-terminal acetylations. Carbamidomethylation of cysteine residues was selected as fixed modification. For the target decoy PSM validator, strict target FDR was set to 0.01, while 0.05 was selected for relaxed target FDR. Q-Exactive raw-files were loaded into the MaxQuant software ([CIT0012]) and processed using the following group specific parameters: variable modifications, acetyl (N-term), oxidation (M); digestion mode, specific; enzyme, Trypsin/P; max. number of missed cleavages, 2; match type, match from and to; number of threads, 3; max. instrument type, Orbitrap; first search peptide tolerance, 20; main search tolerance, 4.5; peptide tolerance unit, ppm; individual peptide mass tolerance, chosen; isotope match tolerance, 2 (ppm); centroid match tolerance, 8 (ppm); centroid half width, 35 (ppm); time valley factor, 1.4; isotope time correlation, 0.6; theoretical isotope correlation, 0.6; recalibration unit, ppm; use MS1 centroids, not chosen; use MS2 centroids, not chosen; intensity dependent calibration, not chosen; min. peak length, 2; max. charge, 5; min. score for recalibration, 70, cut peaks, chosen; gap scans, 1; advanced peak splitting, not chosen; intensity threshold, 500; intensity determination, value at maximum, label-free quantitation (LFQ) min. ratio count, 2; Fast LFQ, chosen; LFQ min. number of neighbors, 3; LFQ average number of neighbors, 6; number of modifications per peptide, 5; min. time, NaN; max. time NaN; additional var mods for special proteins, not chosen; separate variable modifications for first search, not chosen; separate enzyme for first search, not chosen. Global parameters were chosen as follows: a fasta file containing all Uni-Prot listed Arabidopsis thaliana protein sequences; fixed modifications, carbamidomethyl (C); re-quantify, not chosen; match between runs, chosen; match time window, 0.7min; alignment time window, 20min; match unidentified features, not chosen; decoy mode, revert; special AAs, KR; include contaminants, chosen; I=L, not chosen; max peptide mass, 4600Da; min. peptide length for unspecific search, 8; max. peptide length for unspecific search, 25; PSM FDR, 0.01; protein fdr, 0.01; Site decoy fraction, 0.01; min. peptide length, 7; min. peptides, 1; min. razor + unique peptides, 1; min. unique peptides, 0; min. score for unmodified peptides, 0; min. score for modified peptides, 40; min. delta score for unmodified peptides, 0; min. delta score for modified peptides, 6; base FDR calculation of delta score, not chosen; razor protein FDR, chosen; split protein groups by taxonomy ID, not chosen; filter labelled amino acids, chosen; second peptides, chosen; dependent peptides, not chosen; min ratio count, 1.5; peptides for quantification, unique + razor; use only unmodified peptides and selected modifications, chosen; modifications used in protein quantification, acetyl (N-term), oxidation (M); discard unmodified counterpart peptide, chosen; separate LFQ in parameter groups, not chosen; stabilize large LFQ ratios, chosen; require MS/MS for LFQ comparisons, chosen; iBAQ, chosen; Log fit, chosen; advanced site intensities, chosen. LFQ intensities from the corresponding MaxQuant ‘proteinGroups.txt’ file were uploaded into the Perseus software (http://www.biochem.mpg.de/5111810/perseus) to build a quantitation matrix. Data were cleaned from the matrix by applying the following parameters: columns identified only by site, reverse, potential contaminant; mode, remove matching rows; filter mode, reduce matrix. Categorical annotation of rows was performed manually (‘create’) and invalid data were removed by filtering rows based on valid values: min. number of values, 3; mode, in at least one group; values should be greater than 0; filter mode, reduce matrix. Two-sample testing was achieved by means of a t-test using the following parameters: S0; side, both; permutation-based FDR, 0.05, number of randomizations, 250; preserve grouping in randomizations, none; –log10, chosen. The –log10 P-value was calculated and the cut-off for the following analysis was P-value >1.31. Localization of proteins was analysed with SUBAcon ([CIT0067]et al., 2013; [CIT0026]et al., 2014) and the functional context with MapMan ([CIT0068]et al., 2004). Oxygen consumption of isolated mitochondria was measured using a Clark-type oxygen electrode (Hansatech Instruments, Norfolk, UK) according to [CIT0041]et al. (2009). The reaction buffer included 100 µg mitochondrial protein in 3ml respiration buffer (300mM sucrose, 5mM KH2PO4, 10mM TES, 10mM NaCl, 2mM MgSO4, 0.1% [w/v] BSA, pH 7.2) supplied with 5mM succinate and 500 µM ATP. At stable oxygen consumption, 200 µM ADP was added for measuring ADP-dependent respiration. For estimation of AOX capacity, 500 µM of AOX inhibitor n-propyl gallate (nPG) was added and the O2 consumption rate after adding nPG was subtracted from the ADP-dependent O2 consumption rate.
