!~ABS~! Plant hormones cytokinins (CKs) are one of the major mediators of physiological responses throughout plant life span. Therefore, a proper homeostasis is maintained by regulation of their active levels. Besides degradation, CKs are deactivated by uridine diphosphate glycosyltransferases (UGTs). Physiologically, CKs active levels decline in senescing organs, providing a signal to nutrients that a shift to reproductive tissues has begun. In this work, we show CK glucosides distribution in Arabidopsis leaves during major developmental transition phases. Besides continuous accumulation of N-glucosides we detected sharp maximum of the glucosides in senescence. This is caused prevalently by N7-glucosides followed by N9-glucosides and specifically also by trans-zeatin-O-glucoside (tZOG). Interestingly, we observed a similar trend in response to exogenously applied CK. In Arabidopsis, only three UGTs deactivate CKs in vivo: UGT76C1, UGT76C2 and UGT85A1. We thereby show that UGT85A1 is specifically expressed in senescent leaves whereas UGT76C2 is activated rapidly in response to exogenously applied CK. To shed more light on the UGTs physiological roles, we performed a comparative study on UGTs loss-of-function mutants, characterizing a true ugt85a1-1 loss-of-function mutant for the first time. Although no altered phenotype was detected under standard condition we observed reduced chlorophyll degradation with increased anthocyanin accumulation in our experiment on detached leaves accompanied by senescence and stress related genes modulated expression. Among the mutants, ugt76c2 possessed extremely diminished CK N-glucosides levels whereas ugt76c1 showed some specificity toward cis-zeatin (cZ). Besides tZOG, a broader range of CK glucosides was decreased in ugt85a1-1. Performing CK metabolism gene expression profiling, we revealed that activation of CK degradation pathway serves as a general regulatory mechanism of disturbed CK homeostasis followed by decreased CK signaling in all UGT mutants. In contrast, a specific regulation of CKX7, CKX1 and CKX2 was observed for each individual UGT mutant isoform after exogenous CK uptake. Employing an in silico prediction we proposed cytosolic localization of UGT76C1 and UGT76C2, that we further confirmed by GFP tagging of UGT76C2. Integrating all the results, we therefore hypothesize that UGTs possess different physiological roles in Arabidopsis and serve as a fine-tuning mechanism of active CK levels in cytosol.
!~RES~! To determine CK glucosylation status during Arabidopsis leaf senescence, levels of isoprenoid CKs and their respective ribosides, ribotides and glucosides were determined under standard growth conditions in four time points covering the main developmental transition phases: green mature (fully expanded) leaves of non-flowering and flowering rosettes, and green and senescent leaves from pod forming plants. Generally, N-glucosides accumulated during leaf aging (Figure [F1]) with sharp maximum of N7-glucosides in yellowing stage of the leaf aging (Figure [F1]). It might seem that CK O-glucosides fluctuated in an opposite way to CK nucleotides when summed up (Figure [F1]); however, Figure [F1] illustrates flowering time-related increase of all O-glucosides except DHZOG and tZOG that accumulated in aging-dependent manner. Our results point out that tZOG is the main O-glucoside present in Arabidopsis senescent leaves since its level arose almost seven times in comparison to other CK O-glucosides in this time point. Indeed, we observed a decline in active CK forms (Figure [F1]), with fluctuation characteristic for each form (Figure [F1]). Interestingly, cZ and particularly cZR levels increased in senescent leaf which is in accordance with previous work ([B31]). It should be noted that the content of CK glucosides was more than one order of magnitude higher than active forms. Cytokinin content of WT A. thaliana leaves during transitions between vegetative, reproductive and senescence stages. The time points were: green fully developed leaves from a non-flowering (NF) rosette, a flowering (F) rosette, from a plant with maturing pods (P); and senescent leaves from the same plant (PS); days after sowing (DAS). The overall distribution of cytokinins grouped by types of their forms (A) and with a focus on individual forms: active cytokinins (B), cytokinin N-glucosides (C) and cytokinin O-glucosides (D). Values are the means of three biological replicates ± SD. Up to date, the UGTs expression was assessed only in young developing tissues ([B108], [B107]). According to our data, Arabidopsis accumulated large quantities of CK glucosides in leaves in age-dependent manner so that we employed gene expression profiling to determine which UGTs are specific in CK deactivation process during senescence. We show that the most upregulated CK-specific UGT was UGT85A1 whose expression is specifically boosted in senescent leaves (Figure [F2]) followed by BR-specific UGT73C5 ([B85]). We detected significantly downregulated expression of UGT76C1 with age-dependent manner but without specificity in yellowing leaf. Steady expression was detected for UGT76C2 throughout the developmental stages, whereas varying expression was detected for UGT73C1. CAB2 gene was used as a control of senescence progress that reflects photosynthesis status. Consistently, downregulated expression of CAB2 in senescent leaves correlates with previously published data ([B53]). Gene expression profile in leaves of Arabidopsis cytokinin-specific UGTs during plant development (A) and after cytokinin treatment (B). YGL, Young green leaf 30 DAS; GL, green fully developed leaf; SL, senescent leaf. In the experiment where transcript level in response to exogenously applied cytokinin was analyzed, green mature fully expanded leaves (sixth and seventh) from 4 weeks old rosette were used and treated by 10 μM cytokinins for 3 days. The gene expressions are expressed as relative quantities and extrapolated relative to the GL 30 DAS (A) and mock treatment (B), respectively, given as 1.0. The values represent means of three biological replicates (three technical replicates) with standard deviations. Asterisks indicate significant differences between the controls and the samples according to unpaired Student’s t-test, ∗P < 0.05; <LOD, below limit of detection. To compare UGTs in their response to various exogenously applied CK we analyzed modulation of UGTs expression in detached leaves in response to 10 μM KIN, BAP, iP and tZ, respectively. Generally, no significant difference in transcript level was detected in all but UGT76C2 whose transcript level was increased enormously in response to all the tested CKs, with the highest increase after KIN uptake (Figure [F2]) in comparison to mock treatment. UGT85A1 was sensitive only to tZ treatment which increased its expression only mildly, 1.59-times. Surprisingly, the second CK N-specific UGT76C1 glycosyltransferase showed no response to any of the CKs on transcript level. In order to correlate increased transcript level of UGT76C2 after exogenously applied CK, we determined CK content in detached leaves after KIN treatment (as a non-native Arabidopsis CK not interfering with natural CK content) and in whole 4-week-old rosettes in response to tZ. Subsequently, the most prevalent CK types ([B74]) and forms were analyzed. After tZ uptake, a strong interfering effect in terms of extremely elevated tZ-type CKs was observed (Figure [F3]). Further, all DHZ-type CKs arose as well. Consistently with previous studies ([B21]; [B59]; [B46]), N7-glucosides were the predominant forms of CK deactivation pathway, since strong increase of tZ7G and DHZ7G were detected after tZ uptake, followed by its O-glucosides. tZ9G and tZOG were the most significantly elevated CKs when leaves were treated by KIN (Figure [F3]). Both treatments resulted in abolished CK biosynthesis as manifested by general decline of all iP-type CKs and particularly of tZRMP in case of KIN treatment. Interestingly, cZ level rose after tZ uptake, whereas no change was detected in KIN experiment. Since KIN does not interfere with native Arabidopsis CK content but triggers the same CK response in Arabidopsis ([B71]; [B77]), we used KIN to study CK-mediated response in UGT mutants. Cytokinin content in whole plants of WT A. thaliana after tZ treatment (A) and in detached leaves after KIN treatment (B). Values are the means of three biological replicates with ± error bars that represent standard deviations. Asterisks over bars indicate significant differences between KIN treated and mock control plants according to two-tailed unpaired Student’s t-test, ∗P < 0.05, ∗∗P < 0.01, ∗∗∗P < 0.001. In this study, UGT85A1 was shown on transcript level to be the major form responsible for CK inactivation during senescence. However, the ugt85a1-1 mutant did not show apparent phenotypic alteration under normal growth conditions. In order to investigate expected enhanced sensitivity of ugt85a1-1 mutant to exogenously applied CK, a rooting test was performed using BAP, iP and tZ in 0.1, 0.5, and 1.0 μM concentrations. No significant difference in main root length or in number of lateral roots was observed after any of the treatments. Since no phenotype difference was observed on whole plant level in any of developmental stages analyzed, we performed an experiment where senescence was induced by leaves detachment. After 3 days of incubation, the leaves of ugt85a1-1 mutant showed apparent enhanced accumulation of anthocyanins (Figure [F4]). This was further verified by the anthocyanin assay that confirmed 1.6-fold increase of anthocyanins in ugt85a1-1 (Figure [F4]). Similarly, chlorophyll content was measured showing reduced chlorophyll degradation in ugt85a1-1 mutant (Figure [F4]). In order to show senescence status of the mutant in this experiment, we determined gene expression of senescence and stress associated genes together with genes responsible for anthocyanin biosynthesis CHI (Figure [F4]). Relative expression of all the senescence and stress marker genes was lower in ugt85a1-1 mutant in comparison to the WT control with significant reduction of gene transcript of the key enzyme responsible for abscisic acid biosynthesis NCED3. Higher relative expression of CHI gene coding for one of the core anthocyanin biosynthetic enzymes further supports observed enhanced anthocyanin accumulation. Taken together, our data suggest important role of UGT85A1 in senescence process. Characterization of ugt85a1-1 mutant. Detached leaves of WT and the mutant after 3 days of continuous light (A), chlorophyll content (B), anthocyanin content (C) and gene expression profile of senescence and stress related markers (D) including anthocyanin biosynthetic gene CHI. Values are the means of two independent experiments where leaves of ten individual plants were pooled and expressed as relative quantities extrapolated to WT control (white) that is given as 1.0 with error bars representing standard deviations. Asterisks indicate significant difference between WT and transgenic tissue according to two-tailed unpaired Student’s t-test, ∗P < 0.05, ∗∗P < 0.01. We determined CK profile of ugt85a1-1 in 25-day-old seedlings. As indicated in Figure [F5], our data show significant decrease in tZOG level that is in accordance with previously published data where UGT85A1 was proposed to specifically O-glucosylate tZ based on UGT85A1 overexpressor characterization ([B48]). Our data further point out that this UGT might possibly glucosylate also other CKs since significantly decreased levels of almost all O-glucosides as well as cZ9G and DHZ9G were detected. However, this could be due to other uncharacterized regulatory processes that occur in the mutant. Although some of the active CKs decreased, particularly iP, iPR, cZ, cZR, and tZR, CK nucleotides somewhat increased. No change in any of N7-glucosides was observed in our data. Cytokinin content of 4-week-old seedlings of ugt85a1-1 mutant. Values are the means of three biological replicates with error bars representing standard deviations. Asterisks over bars indicate significant difference between wild-type and the mutant according to two-tailed unpaired Student’s t-test, ∗P < 0.05, ∗∗P < 0.01, ∗∗∗P < 0.001. Based on our knowledge of plant ability to restore impaired CK homeostasis by modulation of gene expression ([B78]; [B86]) and of the fact that only minor regulation effect was detected in ugt76c1 mutant ([B107]), we performed an experiment on detached leaves to uncouple the leaf response from whole plant level. We further treated the leaves with exogenously applied KIN to cease CK biosynthesis, thereby boosting visibility of plant’s response to applied CK with focus on glucosylation. Subsequently, we analyzed CK content of all the CK-specific UGT loss-of-function mutants in response to exogenously applied KIN. In order to compare the CK content of WT and ugts in general, we grouped CK by forms (active, nucleotides, O- and N-glucosides) and compared their overall ratios as illustrates Figure [F6]. Here it can be noticed that ugt76c1 and ugt85a1-1 shared a similar pattern of CK forms distribution in general, whereas ugt76c2 showed significantly altered ratio caused mainly by decreased N-glucosides portion. N-glucosides were in fact almost depleted in ugt76c2 as shown in Figure [F6] (comparing total glucosides amounts) whereas they were just moderately decreased in ugt76c1 and ugt85a1-1. Figure [F7] also shows a portion of O-glucosides that are decreased in all the mutants and particularly in ugt76c1 and ugt85a1-1 under non-treated condition. Interestingly, higher amounts of O-glucosides were detected after KIN uptake in contrast to non-treated leaves in all genotypes, with the lowest amounts in ugt76c2. When CK glucosides are presented as individual CK types in absolute numbers (Figures [F6]) it can be concluded that the UGTs are not specific for any particular CK type since glucosides of all CK types were decreased in all the three analyzed mutants. Figure [F7] describes the contents of all individual CK in detail. Neither ugt76c2 nor ugt85a1-1 showed any specificity for N7- or N9- glucosylation since both groups of glucosides were decreased (Figures [F7]) which is in accordance with previous data ([B108], [B107]). However, KIN treatment of ugt76c1 revealed significantly lower level of cZ9G (Figure [F7]) that was not determined in previous studies. Major contributors of total O-glucosides levels are tZOG and cZROG. We detected significantly decreased tZOG levels generally in all the mutants under both conditions, whereas the levels of cZROG stayed steady (Figures [F7]). Interestingly, lower levels of cZOG were measured in ugt76c1 under both conditions. The levels of active CK and their biosynthetic forms are in accordance with our previous experiment with KIN treatment since lower levels of iP and iPRMP were detected after KIN uptake in general as a result of proposed abolished CK biosynthesis (Figure [F7]). Lower levels of tZ under non-treated condition together with lower levels of tZR and depleted tZRMP levels after KIN uptake were assessed in all the mutants, pointing to the plant’s need to restore the homeostasis caused by impaired glucosylation, especially when more stress caused by excessive supply of exogenous CK was applied. Cytokinin content in detached leaves of ugt76c1, ugt76c2 and ugt85a1-1 mutants after 10 μM kinetin treatment. Ratio among CK forms in mock treatment and KIN treated leaves (A). Distribution of total amounts of CK O- and N-glucosides in the genotypes (B). Cytokinin content by CK types; each individual CK-type group sums up free base and riboside with their corresponding O-glucosides and N-glucosides plus ribotides; values are the means of three biological replicates with error bars representing standard deviations. Asterisks over bars indicate significant difference according to two-tailed unpaired Student’s t-test, ∗P < 0.05, ∗∗P < 0.01, ∗∗∗P < 0.001 where for each replicate sixth and seventh green fully developed leaves from ten independent 28-day-old rosettes were pooled for control mock treatment (C) and KIN treatment (D). Detailed cytokinin content in detached leaves of WT, ugt76c1, ugt76c2 and ugt85a1-1 mutants. N-glucosides content in control mock treatment (A) and after KIN treatment (B), O-glucosides content in control mock treatment (C) and after KIN treatment (D), and CK free bases together with their ribosides and ribotides in control mock treatment (E) and after KIN treatment (F). Values are the means of three biological replicates with error bars representing standard deviations. Asterisks over bars indicate significant differences between wild-type and the mutants according to two-tailed unpaired Student’s t-test, ∗P < 0.05, ∗∗P < 0.01, ∗∗∗P < 0.001. Gene expression of major CK metabolic pathways, perception and response was analyzed in detached leaves of ugt mutants after KIN treatment as well as in control mock treatment. Figure [F8] illustrates RQ of the gene transcripts in a heat map. Here, expression of majority of degradation pathway genes was increased in all the mutants, particularly in non-treated group and specifically also in ugt76c2 after KIN uptake. The most upregulated form was CKX3 followed by CKX5 and CKX6. A different pattern was detected for CKX1 since this isoform was downregulated in ugt76c1 mutant after KIN uptake, whereas upregulated in the remaining two mutants. Similarly, CKX2 transcript level was specifically increased in ugt85a1-1 mutant, but slightly suppressed in ugt76c2 and not modulated in ugt76c1. CKX7 form was slightly downregulated in ugt85a1-1 in both conditions but upregulated in ugt76c2 after KIN uptake. CK biosynthesis was generally only modestly decreased when not treated by CK with mutant dependent exceptions. IPT1 and IPT9 transcripts were more abundant in ugt76c1 and ugt76c2, whereas transcript level of IPT3 was increased specifically in ugt76c1 mutant. Majority of IPT genes were slightly elevated after KIN treatment when compared to WT. Although IPT3 and IPT9 shared a somewhat similar trend as when not treated, IPT1 behaved in an opposite way in ugt85a1-1 mutant. Expression of LOG8 increased in order WT < ugt76c1 < ugt76c2 < ugt85a1-1 both, in plants not treated and treated with KIN, but the increase was more pronounced after the treatment. UGT85A1 was downregulated in ugt76c1 and ugt76c2 mutants when not treated, and UGT76C2 increased in ugt76c1. AHK3 transcript decreased in all the mutants in both conditions as well as ARR1with significance for ugt76c2. AHK2 was specifically decreased in both ugt76c mutants after KIN uptake. Two out of three examined A-type ARR were upregulated in response to KIN. Expression profiles of cytokinin metabolism, perception and response genes under standard conditions (Mock treatment) and after kinetin treatment (KIN+) in detached leaves of A. thaliana ugt76c1, ugt76c2 or ugt85a1-1 mutants. The gene expressions of the mutant plants are expressed as relative quantities and extrapolated relative to the mock treatment and KIN treated WT, respectively, given as 1.0. The values represent means of three biological replicates (three technical replicates) with standard deviations. Asterisks indicate significant differences between controls and samples according to two-tailed unpaired Student’s t-test, ∗P < 0.05; < LOD, below limit of detection. No expression was detected for LOG2, LOG6 and LOG7. The only CK-specific UGT with confirmed subcellular localization is UGT85A1 detected in cytosol ([B48]). That was in strong contrast with its in silico prediction by WoLF PSORT prediction tool[fn03] ([B111]). In that study, UGT85A1 was predicted as part of the AtUGT85A-(sub)class to be a membrane-associated enzyme, with targeting to chloroplasts and endoplasmic reticulum (ER). The authors further showed that the AtUGT85A1 protein contains the xKQxxEF motif for microsome retention and ER membrane retention signal QKSQ at the C terminus as well as several posttranslational modification sites suggesting high level of posttranslational modification ([B111]). However, confirmed localization to cytosol accords with generally accepted presumption that plant UGTs are cytosolic enzymes ([B9]; [B98]). Here, we performed a signal peptide prediction of the remaining CK-specific UGTs using available prediction software (Table [T1]). Similar to UGT85A1, UGT76C1and UGT73C1 localization is predicted to chloroplast according to signal peptide prediction analysis. Since UGT76C2 is one of the core CK homeostasis genes, we examined its subcellular localization using confocal laser scanning microscopy using GFP tagging. As shown in Figure [F9], the fluorescent pattern of UGT76C2-GFP displayed diffuse fluorescence in cytosol, accumulating along the plasma membrane and in nuclei ([B36],[B37]; [B54]; Figure [F9]), thus proving UGT76C2 to be a cytosolic enzyme. We suggest the same localization for UGT76C1 based on our signal peptide prediction and comparison (see Supplementary Figure [SM1]). Prediction of a signal peptide in protein sequences of UGTs and model proteins. Subcellular localization analysis of UGT76C2-GFP fusion protein. Green channel and transmission light images captured by confocal microscopy. (A) A control root overexpressing SU:GFP with typical GFP pattern in cytosol and nuclei. (B) The root cells overexpressing SU:UGT76C2-GFP with signal indicating the cytosolic localization of UGT76C2. Scale bars 10 μm.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia-0 was used in this work. Seeds of ugt76c2 (SALK 135793C), ugt76c1 (SALK 144355C), ugt85A1-1 (SALK 085809C), and ugt85a1-2 (SALK 146306C) were obtained from the European Arabidopsis Stock Center (for the description of the lines see Supplementary Table [SM1]). Surface sterilized seeds were sown on half strength MS medium ([B79]) supplemented with 1% sucrose and stratified at 4°C for 4 days in the dark prior to germination. Seedlings were grown either on MS plates or in soil under standard Arabidopsis growth condition in an environmental chamber (16 h fluorescence light of 150 μmol photons∗m-2∗s-1 intensity/8 h dark, 22°C, 55% relative humidity). A green mature fully expanded leaf (sixth and seventh) from a 4-week-old rosette was detached for experiments with exogenously applied CK and further for gene expression profiling. The leaves were incubated in water containing 10 μM KIN, 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP), isopentenyladenine (iP) or trans-zeatin (tZ) with final concentration of dimethylsulfoxid (DMSO) 0.05% for 3 days under the same conditions as the donor plants. Further, intact whole 4-week-old rosettes were sprayed with 10 μM solution of tZ containing 0.005% surfactant Silweet L-77 every 24 h for 3 days. In both cases, mock treatment contained 0.05% DMSO. Solanum lycopersicum L., Peto 343 was used for overexpression of SU:UGT76C2-GFP for the subcellular localization study described below. Although UGT85A1 mutant was described before, its expression was not abolished completely ([B13]). In this work, we characterize a new T-DNA insertion mutant of UGT85A1 (SALK_146306C), labeled as ugt85a1-1, and compare it with the previously characterized SALK_085809C (ugt85a1-2). Supplementary Figures [SM1] illustrates schematic of T-DNA positions within the UGT85A1 gene. The ugt85a1-1 and ugt85a1-2 lines were confirmed for their T-DNA insertion position, homozygosity (data not shown) and gene expression level in RT-PCR (Supplementary Figures [SM1]). Our results showed that UGT85A1 was expressed in WT but not in the ugt85a1-1 mutant, while a weak expression was detected in ugt85a1-2 mutant. Remaining loss-of-function mutants of CK-specific UGTs used in this work were analyzed for presence of their T-DNA insertion and its effect in previous publications: ugt76c2 ([B108]), ugt76c1 ([B107]). No redundancy effect of any of the CK-specific UGTs was detected in any of the mutants used in this work based on their gene expression quantification (Supplementary Figure [SM1]). Sterilized seeds of Arabidopsis wild-type (WT) and ugt85A1-1 were transferred to vertical square Petri dishes on a solid MS medium containing 0.5% MES and 1% sucrose as well as various concentrations of BAP, iP, dihydrozeatin (DHZ) and tZ, respectively. 0.05% DMSO was used in control (mock treatment) since that was the final concentration in all CK treatments. After stratification, the seeds were germinated and grown in an environmental chamber for 14 days. Within the growing period the length of the primary root was evaluated after seven and 14 days respectively, using Scion Image software (Scion Corporation, Frederick, MD, USA). The number of fully emerged lateral roots was scored under a SMZ800 Stereoscopic Microscope (Nikon, Japan). For a senescence induced experiment, sixth leaves from 5-week-old WT and ugt85A1-1 rosettes were detached from ten individual plants for each genotype. The experiment was performed in two replicates. Chlorophyll (Chl) content was performed according to published protocol ([B18]) with the following modification. After 4 days of incubation under continuous light, the detached leaves were frozen in liquid nitrogen and homogenized to extract Chl in 80% acetone. Chl a nad b portions of total Chl (expressed as relative amounts) were calculated using following equation: a = 12.7 (A663) – (A645) and b = 22.9 (A645) – 4.68 (A663). Further, the same samples were used for anthocyanin content measurement which was performed according to a published protocol ([B81]) using acidified methanol and counting the relative content by subtracting A657 from A530. To predict the subcellular localization of the UGTs, the following prediction web based tools were used: TargetP ([B24]), ProtComp v9.0[fn01], SignalP 4.0 ([B83]), ChloroP 1.1 ([B25]), WoLF PSORT[fn02], iPSORT ([B4]), Plant-mPLoc ([B19]). The procedure used for CKs purification was performed according to the described method ([B99]) with subsequent modifications. The samples were extracted in modified Bieleski buffer (methanol/water/formic acid, 15/4/1, v/v/v) and then purified using two solid phase extraction columns, a C18 octadecylsilica-based column (500 mg of reversed-phase sorbent; Applied Separations) and, after that, an Oasis MCX column (30 mg of mixed-mode sorbent with reversed-phase/cation-exchange properties; Waters) ([B22]). The samples were analyzed employing ultra-high performance liquid chromatography (Acquity UPLC system; Waters), coupled to a triple quadrupole mass spectrometer (Xevo TQ-S; Waters) equipped with an electrospray interface. Deuterium-labeled CK internal standards (OlChemIm) were used to validate the determination, each at 0.5 pmol per sample ([B82]). Quantification was achieved by multiple reaction monitoring of [M + H]+ and the appropriate product ion. The quantification was performed by Masslynx software (v4.1; Waters) using a standard isotope dilution method. The ratio of endogenous CK to the appropriate labeled standard was determined and further used to quantify the level of endogenous compounds in the original extract according to the known quantity of the added internal standard. Plant material was processed for reverse transcription according to the method described in our former publication ([B105]). The primers used in our experiment amplified specifically for the following genes: glucosyltransferases UGT73C1, UGT73C5, UGT76C1, UGT76C2, UGT85A1; CK dehydrogenases CKX1-7; isopentenyltransferases IPT1-9; CK nucleoside 5′-monophosphate phosphoribohydrolase LOG2, LOG8; CK trans-hydroxylase CYP735A2; response regulators type A (ARR5, ARR15, ARR16), type B (ARR1, ARR2, ARR10, ARR14); CK receptors AHK4, AHK2, AHK3. All the listed primers were designed according to our previously published work ([B71]; [B77]; also see Supplementary material of these publications for details), Rubisco small chain RUBsc ([B41]), cysteine protease senescence-associated gene SAG12 ([B34]; [B106]) and chlorophyll a/b binding protein CAB2 ([B53]), for transcription factors MYB2 ([B38]) and WRKY53 ([B42]; [B3]); for 1-aminocyklopropan-1-carboxylate synthase ACS8 as a key regulatory enzyme in the biosynthesis of the plant hormone ethylene ([B101]); for chalcone flavanone isomerase CHI as anthocyanins biosynthetic enzyme ([B14]); 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase NCED3, a key enzyme in the biosynthesis of abscisic acid ([B100]). RNA from three biological replicates was transcribed in at least two independent reactions and each cDNA sample was run in at least three technical replications on Viia7TM Real-Time PCR System in a default program (Life Technologies). To evaluate a relative quantification of analyzed genes, cycle threshold (Ct) values were analyzed with the Formula method ([B63]) and normalized with respect to actin 2 (ACT2) and small nuclear ribonucleoprotein D1 (SnRNPD1) ([B87]) that were used as internal standards. The expression data are relative quantities (RQ) calculated as 2-ΔCq extrapolated to controls that are given as 1.0. To confirm UGT85A1 expression level of ugt85a1 mutants, 85A1fw and 85A1rev primers were used ([B13]) in RT-PCR. A Modular Binary Construct System with AKK1436 as a shuttle vector and AKK1472B binary vector (Christopher Taylor Lab, Donald Danforth Plant Science Center, St. Louis, MO, USA) was used for GFP gene fusion and subsequent overexpression of the GFP tagged UGT76C2 gene in tomato hairy roots under a super ubiquitin (SU) promoter as described in our previous work ([B93]). The gene for UGT76C2 was synthetized using GeneArt® commercial service (Thermo Fisher Scientific, USA) with At5g05860 CDS as a template sequence without any modifications. BamHI restriction sites were added to the sequence to enable further sub-cloning of the synthetic gene from the source pMK-RQ vector. Use of BamHI digestion and further ligation to AKK1436 vector resulted in in-frame UGT76C2-GFP fusion further incorporated into AKK1472B through PacI digest/ligation. Root transformation was performed as described previously ([B20]). The binary constructs containing SU:UGT76C2-GFP and SU:GFP were introduced into Agrobacterium rhizogenes strain 15834, verified for transgenes presence and further used for transgenic tomato hairy roots production following the procedure used in our previous work ([B93]). The transgenic roots were first evaluated for GFP fluorescence with a SMZ800 Stereoscopic Microscope (Nikon) and analyzed for transgene expression in RT-PCR. Three to five individual roots were selected from the confirmed lines and mounted in 100 mM phosphate buffered saline (PBS) pH 6.5 prior to observation in confocal microscopy. Zeiss LSM710 laser-scanning confocal microscope (Zeiss) was used to detect the GFP signal of the SU:UGT76C2-GFP and SU:GFP. GFP was excited at 488nm and detected between 500 and 535 nm. Images were processed using Zeiss ZEN software and Adobe Photoshop software.
