!~ABS~! Plant non-specific lipid transfer proteins (nsLTPs) belong to a complex multigenic family implicated in diverse physiological processes. However, their function and mode of action remain unclear probably because of functional redundancy. Among the different roles proposed for nsLTPs, it has long been suggested that they could transport cuticular precursor across the cell wall during the formation of the cuticle, which constitutes the first physical barrier for plant interactions with their aerial environment. Here, we took advantage of the Arabidopsis thaliana etiolated hypocotyl model in which AtLTP2 was previously identified as the unique and abundant nsLTP member in the cell wall proteome, to investigate its function. AtLTP2 expression was restricted to epidermal cells of aerial organs, in agreement with the place of cuticle deposition. Furthermore, transient AtLTP2-TagRFP over-expression in Nicotiana benthamiana leaf epidermal cells resulted in its localization to the cell wall, as expected, but surprisingly also to the plastids, indicating an original dual trafficking for a nsLTP. Remarkably, in etiolated hypocotyls, the atltp2-1 mutant displayed modifications in cuticle permeability together with a disorganized ultra-structure at the cuticle-cell wall interface completely recovered in complemented lines, whereas only slight differences in cuticular composition were observed. Thus, AtLTP2 may not play the historical purported nsLTP shuttling role across the cell wall, but we rather hypothesize that AtLTP2 could play a major structural role by maintaining the integrity of the adhesion between the mainly hydrophobic cuticle and the hydrophilic underlying cell wall. Altogether, these results gave new insights into nsLTP functions.
!~RES~! In order to investigate the function of AtLTP2, the A. thaliana SALK_026257 insertion line in which the AtLTP2 promoter is disrupted by a T-DNA insertion (Figure [F1]), was studied. A homozygous mutant line (atltp2-1) and its wild type counterpart (WT) were selected during a genotyping screen. The genomic sequence of AtLTP2 (2,783 bp), including native regulatory sequences (promoter and terminator sequences) and the unique intron (Figure [F1]), was used to transform homozygous atltp2-1 plants, finally leading to the selection of 12 homozygous independent complemented lines (comp). Three of them (i.e., 5′2, 6′4, and 14′3) were selected for further studies. atltp2-1 is a strong knock-down mutant. (A) Organization of the AtLTP2 (At2g38530) genomic sequence showing the T-DNA insertion in the SALK_026257 (atltp2-1) mutant. The displayed 2,783 bp sequence containing native regulatory sequences was cloned and used for complementation of atltp2-1. Legend: exon (ex); intron (int); UTR (untranslated region). The arrows show the position of primers used for RT-qPCR. (B) Relative AtLTP2 expression was determined by RT-qPCR for etiolated seedling kinetics at eight developmental stages in wild type (WT) (black) and atltp2-1 (white). Results represent the mean values ± SD (n = 3). Significant differences were assessed by a Student’s t-test (∗p-value < 0.05; ∗∗∗p-value < 0.001). (C) 1D-electrophoresis (1D-E) profiles of proteins extracted from cell walls of 5-day-old WT and atltp1-2 seedlings. The numbers on the left indicate the position of protein molecular mass markers (MM) in kDa. The arrow shows the position of the 9.6 kDa band containing AtLTP2. Firstly, AtLTP2 expression was investigated by RT-qPCR on etiolated seedlings during 7 days, timing starting at the time of transfer to dark after synchronization of germination by light exposure for 4 h. In WT seedlings, the level of accumulation of AtLTP2 transcripts showed a significant 15-fold increase between 24 and 48 h, and peaked at 72 h before decreasing to the same level as at 48 h (Figure [F1]). A 5- to 64-fold reduction in the accumulation of AtLTP2 transcripts was observed in atltp2-1 seedlings as compared to WT between 24 h and 7 days (Figure [F1]). An AtLTP2 expression pattern similar to that of WT was retrieved in the three selected independent complemented lines (Supplementary Figure [SM1]). To further characterize these lines, we have performed a MALDI-TOF MS analysis of proteins extracted from cell walls of 5-day-old etiolated seedlings of WT and atltp2-1. Proteins were separated by 1D-electrophoresis (1D-E). A band around 9.6 kDa, in which AtLTP2 was previously identified ([B30]), was clearly visible after Coomassie blue staining in the WT extract, but appeared much fainter in the atltp2-1 extract (Figure [F1]). MALDI-TOF MS analysis after tryptic digestion of the 9.6 kDa band from WT displayed four peptides specific for AtLTP2 allowing its identification: one major peptide (m/z 955.5321) and three minor ones (m/z 1008.4359, 992.4441, and 1236.5724; Supplementary Figure [SM1]). In atltp2-1, only a small peak corresponding to the major peptide (m/z 955.5321) was detected in the 9.6 kDa band, suggesting that this band also contained AtLTP2. No other protein could be identified in the 9.6 kDa band. Even though MALDI-TOF MS was not quantitative, combined SDS-PAGE and MALDI TOF MS analyses indicated that the amount of AtLTP2 was lower in atltp2-1 in comparison to WT. Altogether, these experiments have confirmed the strong reduction of the level of accumulation of AtLTP2 gene products in atltp2-1, both at the transcript and protein levels. Furthermore, these results have demonstrated that the selected AtLTP2 genomic region, carrying the native regulatory sequences, was sufficient to rescue the WT AtLTP2 expression level in atltp2-1, and that the use of these genetic lines (WT, atltp2-1, and comp) was relevant for the following phenotyping studies. To characterize the spatio-temporal expression pattern of AtLTP2, in situ RNA hybridization (ISH) was performed on serial sections from young etiolated seedlings (24 or 30-h-old, timing starting as described for RT-qPCR experiments). The AtLTP2 sense (S) probe, used as a negative control, displayed no significant background on WT seedling cross-sections (Figure [F2]). The natural brown color observed on seed coats in all samples did not correspond to ISH labeling (Figure [F2]). By comparison, the subsequent serial section hybridized with the AtLTP2 antisense (AS) probe displayed an intense purple signal restricted to the epidermis of both the hypocotyl and, to a lesser extent, the cotyledons (Figure [F2]). Cross-section of the atltp2-1 seedlings, at the same developmental stage, did not show such a labeling with the AtLTP2 AS probe (Figure [F2]), in agreement with the RT-qPCR data (Figure [F1]). The epidermal AtLTP2 hybridization signal was retrieved in the epidermis from aerial organs of the 5′2 complemented line (Figure [F2]). Interestingly, the ISH performed with the AtLTP2 AS probe on a longitudinal section of WT etiolated seedlings clearly illustrated the restriction of the AtLTP2 expression to epidermal cell of aerial organs which are covered by a cuticle (hypocotyl and cotyledons) and the absence of such an expression in the cuticle-deprived radicle (Figure [F2]). AtLTP2 expression is restricted to epidermal cells of cuticle-containing hypocotyl and cotyledons from etiolated seedlings. (A–E) ISH was performed with AtLTP2 antisense (AS) and sense (S) probes on 24-h-old serial cross-sections (A–D) and 30-h-old etiolated seedling longitudinal sections (E) of WT, atltp2-1 and one complemented line (5′2 comp). The AtLTP2 S probe (A) allowed showing the low hybridization background level within the etiolated seedling tissues (C, cotyledons; H, hypocotyls; R, radicle) and in the endosperm (EN), and to visualize the natural brown color of the seed coat (SC). Scale bars: 100 μm. Like most nsLTPs, AtLTP2 carries a predicted N-terminal signal peptide of 23 amino acids in length most likely directing AtLTP2 to the secretory pathway ([B18]). The mature 9.6 kDa protein accumulated in the cell wall proteome of dark-grown hypocotyls ([B30]) in agreement with the assumed localization of nsLTPs ([B34]). In order to confirm its sub-cellular localization in vivo, AtLTP2 fused to the fluorescent protein TagRFP (Red Fluorescent protein, [B49]) was transiently produced in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves (Figure [F3]). The TagRFP is characterized by its low 3.8 pKa especially well-adapted to fluorescence emission in various cell compartments including at the acidic pH of the cell wall compartment ([B1]). AtLTP2-TagRFP is dually targeted to the cell wall and the plastids. The fusion protein AtLTP2-TagRFP displayed in (A) was produced together with the plasma membrane (PM) marker PIP2A-YFP in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves. Detached leaves were observed under hypotonic (B–G) or hypertonic (H–M) conditions. The Tag-RFP fluorescence signal is false-colored in magenta in the left column. The PM and the plastid markers (chlorophyll auto-fluorescence) are false-colored in green in the second column and the merge is presented in white in the right column. Note that under plasmolysis, the AtLTP2-TagRFP fluorescence in the cell wall is excluded from the PM fluorescence of PIP2A-YFP and that the additional co-localization of AtLTP2-TagRFP fluorescence with the chlorophyll auto-fluorescence indicates its plastid localization. Scale bars: 50 μm. A specific TagRFP fluorescence signal was observed at the cell periphery, but was difficult to distinguish from the co-transformed PIP2A-YFP plasma membrane marker ([B54]) (Figures [F3]). To overcome this difficulty, the detached transformed leaves were plasmolysed in 0.5 M mannitol, allowing the distinction between the peripheral fluorescence of the AtLTP2-TagRFP fusion protein and the retracted PIP2A-YFP fluorescence (Figures [F3]), thus clearly demonstrating the cell wall localization of AtLTP2-TagRFP. Surprisingly, we also observed in the same cells a strong additional fluorescent signal of AtLTP2-TagRFP that co-localized with the chlorophyll auto-fluorescence both in hypotonic and hypertonic conditions (Figures [F3]). In addition, AtLTP2 fused to the YFP coding sequence was transiently expressed in N. benthamiana leaves (Supplementary Figure [SM1]). AtLTP2-YFP was strongly visualized in plastids, thus confirming this unexpected localization (Supplementary Figure [SM1]). However, certainly due to the YFP instability in the cell wall acidic compartment (pKa 6.9; [B1]), AtLTP2-YFP fluorescence was not detected in cell wall contrary to that of AtLTP2-TagRFP. Altogether, these results showed that AtLTP2 had an original dual localization to the cell wall and the plastids. To further clarify the mechanism of AtLTP2 transport to the plastids, AtLTP2-TagRFP was produced in N. benthamiana leaves in the presence of Brefeldin A (BFA), a drug used to prevent the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-to-Golgi trafficking ([B12]). In presence of BFA (Figure [F4]), the AtLTP2-TagRFP fluorescence was strictly restricted to the ER-Golgi hybrid and BFA compartments ([B53]; [B68]). It co-localized with the sp-YFP-HDEL marker of the ER compartment ([B54]) suggesting that AtLTP2-TagRFP was redistributed in the oversized ER-Golgi modified structures as previously described ([B68]). In the control experiment without BFA, AtLTP2-TagRFP was still observed in the cell wall and in plastids (Supplementary Figure [SM1]). In presence of BFA, AtLTP2-TagRFP was no longer localized to the cell wall and to plastids suggesting that AtLTP2 needed to go through the ER/Golgi apparatus to reach these two compartments. Therefore, it was assumed that the full length AtLTP2 pre-protein was first targeted to the secretory pathway thanks to its signal peptide, prior to be sorted to both the cell wall and plastids. The secretory pathway is involved in both cell wall and plastids AtLTP2-TagRFP localization. The AtLTP2-TagRFP fusion protein was produced together with the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) marker sp-YFP-HDEL in N. benthamiana leaves which were subjected to Brefeldin A (BFA) treatment. The AtLTP2-TagRFP fluorescence signal is false-colored in magenta in (A,D,G). The bright-field (B) is displayed to visualize the cell morphology. ER marker (E) and chlorophyll auto-fluorescence (H) are false-colored in green and the merge is presented in white in the right column (C,F,I). Note that in presence of BFA, AtLTP2-TagRFP fluorescence is restricted to the ER-Golgi hybrid and BFA compartments. Scale bars: 40 μm. According to (i) the putative function of nsLTPs, and (ii) the above-demonstrated expression profile of AtLTP2 restricted to the aerial organ epidermal cells, we have performed cuticle-dedicated phenotyping experiments. Given that a crucial function of the cuticle is its role as a primary barrier to water-loss, the cuticle permeability was determined in 5-day-old etiolated seedlings of WT, atltp2-1, and atltp2-1 (comp) seedlings. At this developmental stage, following AtLTP2 expression peak (Figure [F1]), AtLTP2 has been shown to be strongly accumulated in etiolated hypocotyl cell walls by previous proteomic studies ([B30]). The water-loss rate of the etiolated seedlings was faster in atltp2-1 than in WT following exit from the in vitro conditions operated in order to mimic a desiccation stress by quickly reducing the in vitro water-saturated atmosphere (Figure [F5]). The water-loss rates of the 5′2 and 14′3 complemented lines were slightly slower than the WT one (Figure [F5]). A link was found between relative AtLTP2 transcript level and the water-loss rate: the higher the AtLTP2 transcript level is (Supplementary Figure [SM1]), the more the seedlings resist to water-loss (Figure [F5]). To ensure that the observed weight differences were due to water-loss, the dry mass of the seedlings of the different genotypes was measured. No significant difference was detected between them (Figure [F5]). The observed faster desiccation in atltp2-1 etiolated seedlings could be visualized after exit from in vitro conditions (Figure [F5]). Although both the WT and atltp2-1 hypocotyls displayed similar diameters at the time they were put in normal atmospheric conditions, a clear shrinkage quickly appeared in atltp2-1 hypocotyls, whereas the WT ones resisted better to dehydration during the time course of experiments (Figure [F5]). These observations were confirmed by biometrical data showing that atltp2-1 hypocotyl diameters became significantly smaller than the WT ones a few minutes after their transfer to normal atmospheric conditions (Figure [F5]). atltp2-1 etiolated seedlings show increased water-loss and toluidine blue (TB) permeability. (A) Water-loss kinetics of WT, atltp2-1 and complemented lines (5′2 and 14′3; expressed as % of fresh mass) were performed at 25°C. Points represent mean values ± SE (n = 3). Significant differences from WT were assessed by a Wilcoxon rank-sum test (∗p-value ≤ 0.05). Dry mass was measured after 3 days at 25°C. No significant differences between the different lines were assessed using a Wilcoxon rank-sum test (p-value > 0.05) (B) Arabidopsis thaliana etiolated seedlings from 5-day-old WT and atltp2-1 were imaged along a 25 min kinetics following exit from the in vitro conditions. atltp2-1 hypocotyls displayed a gradually shrinkage whereas WT hypocotyls resisted better to the induced desiccation (n = 11). Hypocotyl diameters were measured using the ImageJ software. The results were analyzed by ANOVA and Tukey HSD test (α = 0.01) using R software. Different letters indicate significant differences at p-value < 0.01. (C) Permeability of etiolated hypocotyls was examined using the TB staining test. TB uptake was quantified spectrophotometrically at OD626 nm. Results are presented as mean values ± SD (n = 5). Significant differences from WT were assessed by a Student’s t-test (∗∗p-value < 0.01). Moreover, non-functional cuticle often showed an increased permeability to water-soluble molecules that can be monitored with toluidine blue (TB) hydrophilic dye uptake ([B74]). The atltp2-1 hypocotyls showed an intense TB coloration (Figure [F5]) as compared to those of the WT and of the two selected complemented lines which remained mostly white. Toluidine blue was extracted for quantification from stained aerial organs. Significant 6- to 10-fold higher stain intensity was revealed for atltp2-1 seedlings as compared to WT and complemented lines, in agreement with the macroscopic observations (Figure [F5]). In order to determine if this permeability phenotype was linked to defects in the cuticle, the composition and content of the cuticular waxes and cutin polymer were determined by GC-MS using 5-day-old etiolated hypocotyls. To our knowledge, no work has yet reported the cuticle composition of dark-grown seedlings. Therefore, the cuticle lipid profiles obtained were compared to those of light-grown A. thaliana stems and leaves ([B73]; [B38]). The wax profile of etiolated hypocotyls was dominated by C29 and C31 alkanes, like in leaves, but also contained substantial amounts of very long-chain fatty acids with less than 28 carbon atoms (mainly C24) and very long-chain fatty alcohols with less than 26 carbon atoms (mainly C22; Figure [F6]). Such compounds were found as very minor components of A. thaliana leaf and stem waxes, which usually contained similar compounds (i.e., fatty acids and alcohols), but with more than 26 carbon atoms. Moreover, A. thaliana stems were characterized by high amounts of C29 ketone and secondary alcohols, which were not detected in hypocotyls (Figure [F6]). The cutin polymer of etiolated hypocotyls was dominated by 18:2 dicarboxylic acid, as in leaves and stems, but also contained high amounts of polyhydroxy C18 fatty acids (Figure [F6]). In addition, very long-chain fatty acids with more than 24 carbon atoms were detected. Nevertheless, the waxes and cutin polymer composition and content of WT and atltp2-1 presented only slight differences (Figure [F6]). The waxes profile of atltp2-1 was characterized by very minor increases in the amounts of C30 fatty acids, and C22 and C30 fatty alcohols, while the major alkanes (C29 and C31) were not significantly decreased (Figure [F6]). More interestingly, at the cutin level, atltp2-1 was characterized by a one third increase of the major component (18:2-DCA) when compared to WT (Figure [F6]). These analyses therefore suggested that alterations in the cutin polymer, rather than in the cuticular waxes, could be related to the observed increased permeability. atltp2-1 and WT etiolated hypocotyls have very similar cuticle composition and content. Cuticular waxes (A) and cutin monomers (B) were quantified by GC-MS. The different aliphatic compounds, sorted into individual chain length, are presented. Mean values are shown in μg/mg of fresh weight (FW) ± SD (n = 4). 18:X stands for the sum of all unsaturated C18 fatty acids (18:1+18:2+18:3). Significant differences were assessed by a Student’s t-test (∗p-value < 0.05 and ∗∗p-value < 0.01). To clarify which alteration in the cuticle and/or cell wall could result in the permeability phenotype of atltp2-1, the epidermal cell surface and ultra-structure of etiolated hypocotyls were investigated by electron microscopy techniques. Environmental scanning electron microscopy (ESEM) was used to have an overview of the hypocotyl surface under close-to-native conditions. ESEM was indeed particularly adapted to the observation of the delicate hypocotyls because no fixation of the samples was required, thus preventing/limiting dehydration effect. While WT hypocotyls showed extremely elongated epidermal cells evenly aligned, the architecture of the atltp2-1 epidermal cells displayed pronounced modifications both in the shape and cell organization leading to some points of disruption along their surface (Figures [F7]). This collapsed phenotype was observed from 3 to 11 days post-germination for atltp2-1 (Supplementary Figure [SM1]), whereas a WT phenotype was repeatedly observed for the three complemented lines (Supplementary Figure [SM1]). Whether these different phenotypes actually corresponded to the native state of the hypocotyls or were accentuated by the vacuum during ESEM, they clearly illustrated an impaired hypocotyl cell surface in atltp2-1. Etiolated hypocotyls of atltp2-1 show dramatic surface and cuticle-cell wall interface defects. Hypocotyls from 5-day-old WT (A,C,E) and atltp2-1 (B,D,F) etiolated seedlings were imaged using ESEM (A,B), osmium tetroxide lipophilic staining at the transmission electron microscopy (TEM) level (C,D), and PATAg cell wall polysaccharide staining at the TEM level (E,F). Note the dramatic perturbation of the atltp2-1 hypocotyl surface imaged by environmental scanning electron microscopy (ESEM). Legend: cuticle (Cut); cytoplasm (Cyt); cell wall (CW); cuticle-cell wall detachment zone (DZ). The ultra-structure of both epidermis periclinal cell wall and cuticle was observed by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) using the osmium tetroxide lipophilic staining (Figures [F7]) and the PATAg polysaccharide staining (Figures [F7]). A typical ∼50 nm thick electron-dense layer corresponding to the cuticle was observed on the outer part covering the periclinal cell wall in hypocotyl cross-sections from both WT and atltp2-1 (Figures [F7]). However, the atltp2-1 cuticle was clearly no longer sealed to the cell wall at several points, especially at the junction zone between two cells, thus delineated detachment zones (DZ) between the atltp2-1 cuticle and the underlying periclinal cell wall. On the contrary, the WT cuticle consistently appeared attached to the cell wall (Figures [F7]). While the PATAg strongly stained both the WT and the atltp2-1 epidermis cell walls (Figures [F7]), the DZ were lightly and specifically stained by PATAg, but not by osmium tetroxide (Figures [F7]), indicating that they were mainly composed of fibrillar cell wall polysaccharides which were pulled up during the cuticle-cell wall separation. This repeatedly observed phenotype was reinforced by a quantitative analysis of the DZ area stained with PATAg, at the junction zone between two cells. The ratio of detached cuticle length normalized relatively to the length of outer periclinal cell wall was significantly higher in atltp2-1 (75% +/- 8.8 %) than in WT (14.6% +/- 5.9 %; Supplementary Figure [SM1]). Furthermore, light microscopy (LM) observation of cross-sections confirmed the remarkable impaired morphology of atltp2-1 hypocotyls in which the epidermal cells were particularly collapsed and thereby modified the overall shape of hypocotyls (Figure [F8]). By performing correlated LM and TEM-PATAg polysaccharide staining, it was shown that the DZ were distributed along the hypocotyl surface and were indeed made of empty space with little cell wall material, especially at the position covering the epidermal radial cell wall (Figure [F8]). Altogether, these results have demonstrated marked ultra-structural alterations on the epidermal surface of the atltp2-1 etiolated hypocotyls, suggesting a role for AtLTP2 at the cuticle-cell wall interface. Correlated light microscopy (LM) and TEM observations of 5-day-old etiolated hypocotyls of WT and atltp2-1. Semi-thin cross-sections of WT (A–E) and of atltp2-1 (F–J) were stained with TB for LM observations (A,B,F,G) and ultra-thin serial sections were PATAg-labeled for TEM observations (C–E,H–J). The frames indicate the magnified zones. Note the overall shrinkage of atltp2-1 hypocotyl, although no particular phenotype was observable at the cuticle-cell wall interface at the correlated high magnification of LM (B,G) and low magnification of TEM (C,H), respectively. In the atltp2-1, higher TEM magnification (I,J) allowed, the visualization of the PATAg-reactive cell wall defibrillated material at the detachment zone located between the cuticle and the cell wall. Legend: cuticle (Cut); cytoplasm (Cyt); cell wall (CW); cuticle-cell wall detachment zone (DZ); vacuole (V).
!~MM~! The atltp2-1 mutant for At2g38530 (Salk N526257.5, Col-0 background) was ordered from the NASC collection[fn01]. The homozygous atltp2-1 and its WT counterpart were obtained from this Salk line during a genotyping process of its progeny. This screening was done by PCR with the primers listed in Supplementary Table [SM1]. For phenotyping experiments, seeds were sown in Magenta boxes on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium (Sigma–Aldrich)[fn02] with 1% (w/v) agar. Seeds were kept in the dark at 4°C during 48 h and subsequently exposed to light for 4 h to synchronize germination. In vitro seedlings were grown in the dark at 23°C for various periods of time up to 11 days. For complementation/transformation experiments, atltp2-1 plants were grown in growth chamber under a 15 h light/9 h dark cycle (22/20°C, 70% humidity) until flowering. For transient transformation experiments, N. benthamiana plants were cultivated in growth chambers (16 h light/8 h dark cycle, 25/22°C, 80% humidity) during 3 weeks. A 2.8 kb genomic fragment comprising the AtLTP2 promoter, the coding region and the terminator regions was amplified from genomic DNA by PCR using primers listed in Supplementary Table [SM1]. It was cloned into pAM-PAT-D35S-GWY-3HA-RRS1-RT which derived from binary vectors previously described ([B75]), to generate the promAtLTP2::AtLTP2::TermAtLTP2 construct. The Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101::pMP90 strain ([B37]) was transformed with the recombinant vector and used to stably transform atltp2-1 plants with the floral dip method ([B10]). In situ hybridization was performed as previously described for developing seeds ([B22]). Tissue microarrays encompassed early developmental kinetics for hundreds of etiolated seedlings of A. thaliana WT, atltp2-1, and the complemented line 5′2. Slides have been scanned with a Nanozoomer HT slide scanner (Hamamatsu)[fn03]. Total RNA extractions were performed from three biological replicates for each sample. For the youngest samples, whole seedlings were sampled, whereas for 5- and 11-day-old seedlings, only aerial organs were sampled. Samples were ground in liquid nitrogen and RNA extraction was performed using the E.Z.N.A® Plant DNA Kit (Omega BioTech Inc)[fn04]. For each extraction, 70 mg of fresh material were used. RNA concentration and quality were determined using a N-100 NanoDrop[fn05]. For cDNA synthesis, 400 ng of total RNAs were used to perform reverse transcription using the High-Capacity cDNA reverse transcription kit (Applied Biosystems)[fn06]. The cDNAs were stored at -20°C. RT-qPCRs were laid out in 384 well-plates, including three reference genes (At5g15710 encoding a F-box protein, At1g49240 encoding actin 8 and At4g34270 encoding a TIP-41 like protein; [B11]). A. thaliana gene-specific primers are listed in Supplementary Table [SM1]. Three biological and two technical replicates were included for each cDNA-primer combination. Individual reactions contained 3 μl of cDNA, 0.5 μl of each primer (10 μM), and 4 μl of 2x SYBR GREENTM (Roche)[fn07] in a final volume of 8 μl. Plates were sealed using a clear, adhesive PCR film (Thermo Scientific)[fn08]. They were run in a LightCycler® 480 (Roche) at 95°C for 5 min, followed by 45 cycles with 95°C for 15 s and 60°C for 1 min, and finally 40°C for 1 min. Data were collected and analyzed using Microsoft Excel 2010[fn09]. The geometric mean value generated from the three reference genes was used to calculate the relative gene expression levels using the 2-ΔΔCT method ([B46]). Significant differences were assessed by a Student’s t-test. Cell wall purification and extraction of proteins were performed as described ([B19]) with 5 g of etiolated hypocotyls and cotyledons. Proteins were dialysed and concentrated by successive centrifugation using the Amicon Ultra-15 centrifugal filter Ultracel® (Merck Millipore Corporation)[fn010]. Proteins were separated by denaturing 1D-E using 12.5% (m/v) polyacrylamide gel. Proteins were stained with CoomassieTM Brilliant Blue ([B71]). Colored bands around 9.6 kDa were sampled and digested with trypsin. MALDI-TOF MS analyses were performed as reported ([B5]). To generate the AtLTP2-TagRFP construct, the A. thaliana full-length cDNA AtLTP2 clone (pda02841) was ordered at the RIKEN Genomic Sciences Complex (RIKEN[fn011]; [B72]). It was amplified by PCR using the primers listed in Supplementary Table [SM1] (AttB1-At2g38530-F and Spacer-At2g38530-R). The TagRFP coding sequence was amplified separately from the pTagRFP-C vector (FP141, Evrogen, Euromedex, Souffelweyersheim, France) with the sense and AS primers (Spacer-TarRFP-F and AttB2-TagRFP-stop listed in Supplementary Table [SM1]). Both the AtLTP2 and the TagRFP PCR products were fused by the overlap extension PCR method and the corresponding fused DNA product was amplified with the primers listed in Supplementary Table [SM1] (attB1-F-adapter and attB2-R-adapter). Then, it was cloned into the entry vector pDONR207 prior to be transferred into the pEAQ-DEST1-HT destination vector ([B69]) by homologous recombination using the Gateway® technology (InvitrogenTM-ThermoFisher)[fn012]. The A. tumefaciens GV3101 strain was transformed with the recombinant binary vector. Agrobacterium tumefaciens were grown in Yeast Extract Broth (YEB) liquid medium at 28°C under shaking until OD600 reached 1. Bacteria were centrifuged 5 min at 4000 × g. The pellet was re-suspended in agromix (10 mM MES-KOH pH 5.6, 0.15 mM acetosyringone, 10 mM MgCl2) until OD600 = 1, and incubated overnight at room temperature. Nicotiana benthamiana leaves of 3-week-old plants were infiltrated at their abaxial side with the bacterial suspension(s). In the case of co-infiltration of two bacterial suspensions carrying different constructs, a ratio of 2/1 was used [TagRFP-construct/YFP-tagged organelle markers for plasma membrane (pm-yb CD3-1006) or ER (ER-yb CD3-958)] ([B54]). Nicotiana benthamiana plants were kept in the growth chamber room until observation 48 h after infiltration. An upright confocal laser scanning microscope (LEICA SP2 AOBS[fn013]) using a 40 x apochromatic water immersion lens was used to visualized YFP fluorescence (excitation: 488 nm; emission: 514–551 nm), TagRFP fluorescence (excitation: 561 nm; emission: 582–622 nm), and chlorophyll auto-fluorescence (excitation: 488 nm; emission: 680–720 nm). Fluorescence in different channels was acquired for the same field using a sequential acquisition mode. Plasmolysis assays were performed using 0.5 M mannitol. For the ER-Golgi trafficking assay, BFA (Sigma–Aldrich) was used at a concentration of 35 μM. One milliliter BFA was co-infiltrated with transformed A. tumefaciens in N. benthamiana leaves and 1 ml was infiltrated 24 h before observation ([B12]). Five-day-old etiolated seedlings from WT and atltp2-1 (n = 11) were aligned on a microscopy slide and imaged with an Axiozoom V 16[fn014] during a 25 min kinetics to follow their degree of desiccation. Hypocotyl diameters were measured using the ImageJ software[fn015]. The results were analyzed by ANOVA and Tukey HSD test (α = 0.01) using the R software ([B64]). In parallel, 500 mg of WT, atltp2-1, and complemented lines (5′2 and 14′3) seedlings were put in Petri dishes. They were placed in a 25°C oven and weighted with a precision balance during a 3 h kinetics to monitor water-loss. Dry mass was measured after 3 days at 25°C. Significant differences were assessed by a Wilcoxon rank-sum test using the R software. TB staining was performed as described ([B74]). Quantification of TB was performed using 20 mg of etiolated hypocotyls ([B80]). Significant differences were assessed by a Student’s t-test. Root and seed coats were carefully removed prior to immersion in ethanol. Five-day-old etiolated hypocotyls were harvested, the cotyledons removed, and the fresh mass immediately measured. Waxes were extracted by dipping in chloroform for 30 s and analyzed as described ([B6]). The hypocotyls were then delipidated and the cutin monomer composition and content determined as described ([B16]). Significant differences were assessed by a Student’s t-test. Wild type and atltp2-1 etiolated seedlings were used for ESEM analysis. Samples were observed without fixation following their sampling from in vitro cultures. Micrographs were obtained with a Quanta 250FEG ESEM (FEI Company) [fn016] using a 10 kV acceleration voltage, a spot size of 3, and a chamber pressure of 800 Pa, at 5°C and 94% humidity. Five-day-old etiolated seedlings of WT and atltp2-1 were fixed for 2 h in 1.25% glutaraldehyde/2% paraformaldehyde ([B58]). Half of the samples were post-fixed for 1 h in 1% (v/v) aqueous OsO4 solution (Electron Microscopy Sciences)[fn017]. All the samples were further dehydrated, infiltrated, and embedded in LR White resin ([B58]). For OsO4 post-fixed samples, ultrathin cross-sections (100 nm thick) of the hypocotyls base were cut and directly observed on 200 mesh-copper grids using a HT7700 TEM (Hitachi)[fn018] operated at 80 kV with a Gatan numeric camera[fn019]. For the other samples, semi- (1 μm) and ultra-thin (100 nm) sections were sequentially cut from the same sample. Semi-thin sections were stained in 0.5% (w/v) TB solution for 15 min for correlative microscopy with TEM observations. Ultra-thin sections were handled on plastic rings for PATAg staining ([B67]) and eventually transferred to 200 mesh-nickel grids. TEM observations were performed as described above. For quantitative analysis of DZ on PATAg images, wide views (×5K magnification) were chosen to provide the widest surface of analysis enabling to keep the ultrastructural details of PATAg-labeling, WT (n = 8) and atltp2-1 (n = 8) hypocotyl epidermal cell cross-sections were carefully analyzed for quantification of DZ. The TEM images were individually computer-labeled using Corel Photopaint with red lines (detached cuticle) and green lines (outer periclinal cell wall). These color marks (length of red lines and length of green lines, both in μm) were measured with ImageJ on calibrated images. For each image, the ratio of detached cuticle length/total outer periclinal cell wall length (sum of red lines whenever present/green line) was calculated as %, and the results were expressed as mean % +/- standard error. Significant difference in atltp2-1 as compared to WT was assessed by a Wilcoxon rank-sum test.
