in plant mitochondria some of the trnas are encoded by the mitochondrial genome and resemble their prokaryotic counterparts whereas the remaining trnas are encoded by the _LOCATION_ genome and imported from the _LOCATION_ . generally mitochondrial isoacceptor trnas all have the same genetic origin . one known exception to this rule is the group of trnagly isoacceptors in dicotyledonous plants . a _LOCATION_ encoded trnagly and at least one _LOCATION_ encoded trnagly coexist in the mitochondria of these plants and both are required to allow translation of all four ggn glycine codons . we have taken advantage of this atypical situation to address the problem of trna/aminoacyl trna synthetase coevolution in plants . in this work we show that two different _LOCATION_ encoded glycyl trna synthetases are imported into arabidopsis thalianaand phaseolus vulgaris mitochondria . the first one glyrs is similar to human or yeast glycyl trna synthetase whereas the second glyrs is similar to escherichia coliglycyl trna synthetase . both enzymes are dual targeted glyrs to mitochondria and to the _LOCATION_ and glyrs to mitochondria and chloroplasts . unexpectedly glyrs _METHOD_ to be active in the _LOCATION_ but inactive in mitochondrial fractions whereas glyrs is likely to glycylate both the organelle encoded trnagly and the imported trnagly present in mitochondria .
by analysis of cdnas and inverse pcr products we characterized a eukaryotic type glyrs gene in a. thaliana and we termed this gene glyrs . for this an a. thaliana cdna library was screened using as a probe an a. thaliana _PROTEIN_ sequence tag clone showing similarity with known glyrs genes . several incomplete cdnas lacking the end were recovered from this screening . the region of the gene was cloned from a. thaliana genomic dna by using inverse pcr . southern blot analysis of total a. thaliana dna digested with psti bglii or ecori suggested that theglyrs gene is a single copy gene which was confirmed with the availability of the complete a. thaliana genomic sequence see the arabidopsisgenome initiative web site . a second gene showing similarities with glyrs and other eukaryotic glyrs sequences was previously identified in the a. thaliana genome . however this second gene was considered to be a pseudogene because the sequence is partial it contains a number of frameshifts and no corresponding _PROTEIN_ sequence tags could be detected . the full glyrs coding sequence is amino acids long . it is similar to other known eukaryotic glyrs sequences and presents no obvious similarity with prokaryotic glyrs sequences such as the e. coli glyrs suggesting a _LOCATION_ localization . a multiple alignment of glyrs sequences is available on our web site devoted to a. thaliana trnas and aminoacyl trna synthetases . the high level of similarity between glyrs and eukaryotic glyrss suggests that the native enzyme probably has an quaternary structure like other eukaryotic glyrss . the presence of a mitochondrial targeting peptide at the n terminal end of the coding sequence was predicted by computer analysis . mitoprot predotar psort and targetp gave a score of and respectively for a mitochondrial localization . alignment of the glyrs amino acid sequence with that of the other glyrs sequences starts around the end of the potential targeting sequence . it should also be noticed that a dual localization in the _LOCATION_ and in mitochondria was proposed for two homologs of glyrs in humans and in saccharomyces cerevisiae . _PROTEIN_ of the glyrs gene was investigated by primer extension . the results shown in fig . b indicate that there are two major transcripts with different ends that map nucleotides upstream and nucleotides downstream respectively of the first putative aug initiation codon . the sequence shows a second in frame aug codons downstream of the first initiator aug . this second aug maps near the position corresponding to the c terminal end of the predicted mitochondrial targeting peptide . the end of the shortest mrna is located upstream of the second in frame aug codon which could thus be used to initiate translation on this transcript leading to the synthesis of a short _LOCATION_ form of glyrs . translation of the long transcript could generate a long protein with a putative mitochondrial targeting peptide . an _PROTEIN_ glyrs gene of prokaryotic type was characterized by uwer et al . upon analysis of an a. thaliana embryo development mutant due to a unique insertion of a dsa transposable element . the corresponding protein which is amino acids long has no significant similarity with glyrs but presents regions similar to the and subunits of e. coli glyrs so that a dimeric structure of glyrs would reflect the tetrameric structure of e. coli glyrs . an alignment of the glyrs sequence with other glyrs sequences is also available on our web site . prediction of the subcellular localization run with chlorop predotar and targetp gave a score of and respectively for a chloroplastic localization of glyrs and this enzyme was indeed shown to be imported into chloroplasts . however the corresponding glyrs mutant has an embryo lethal phenotype . embryo growth was stopped between the globular and heart stages of embryonic development and germination of mutant seeds was never observed . such a phenotype was not expected for a _LOCATION_ enzyme and the function of this glyrs during _LOCATION_ translation does not provide a direct hint to its role during embryogenesis . indeed uwer et al . did not exclude another localization and further prediction analyses with mitoprot gave a score of for a mitochondrial localization of glyrs . with psort no clear prediction for mitochondrial or chloroplastic targeting was obtained . as an in vivo approach to analyze the intracellular localization of glyrs the sequence encoding the first amino acids of this enzyme was fused upstream to and in frame with an enhanced jellyfish _METHOD_ reporter gene . when transiently _PROTEIN_ inn . benthamiana cells this construct yielded _METHOD_ associated with mitochondria demonstrating that the n terminus of glyrs is an active mitochondrial targeting peptidein vivo . because potential dual targeting of glyrs to mitochondria and chloroplasts was predicted by computer analyses a similar approach was developed for this enzyme . the sequence encoding the first amino acids of the glyrs polypeptide was fused in frame to the end of the _METHOD_ gene . when this construct was _PROTEIN_ in n. benthamiana cells _METHOD_ was associated with both chloroplasts and mitochondria indicating that the glyrs presequence is able to promote dual targeting to both organellesin vivo . the large size of the glyrs and glyrs polypeptides was expected to be unfavorable both for coupled in vitrotranscription/translation and for in vitro import into mitochondria . thus these experiments were carried out with constructs corresponding to fusions between the glyrs n terminal sequences and _METHOD_ . in vitro transcription/translation of the chimeric genes yielded a kda fusion protein for the glyrs construct and a kda product for the glyrs construct . in the presence of mitochondria these products were partially processed into polypeptides of and kda respectively which corresponded to the m r of the fusion proteins upon cleavage of the predicted glyrs targeting sequence . the addition of proteinase k to the import medium reduced the signals corresponding to the preproteins but did not affect the signals corresponding to the processed proteins that were protected . the addition of valinomycin which is known to inhibit mitochondrial protein import prevented the formation of the processed proteins . when the same experiment was performed with unfused _METHOD_ no interaction with mitochondria was observed because no labeled protein was associated with mitochondria after incubation and centrifugation through a sucrose cushion . these results showed that the glyrs and glyrs presequences can promote in vitro protein import into isolated mitochondria . the _LOCATION_ form of glyrs was overexpressed ine . coli and purified to raise polyclonal antibodies . western blots were performed with a. thaliana total and mitochondrial proteins . cross contaminations were checked with antisera against mitochondrial superoxide dismutase for mitochondrial contamination or tubulin for _LOCATION_ contamination . an immunoreactive protein of about kda was detected both in total and in mitochondrial protein extracts when using the antiserum against glyrs . the size of the detected protein was in accordance with the calculatedm r of the _LOCATION_ form and the processed mitochondrial form of the enzyme . faster migrating polypeptides revealed with the glyrs antiserum in mitochondrial extracts might reflect some degradation . an immunoreactive protein of the same size was also found in the _LOCATION_ and in mitochondria when using bean total and mitochondrial enzymatic extracts in western blot analyses with the glyrs antiserum . this observation implies that a homolog ofa . thaliana glyrs is present in bean and is dual targeted to the _LOCATION_ and to mitochondria although it does not completely exclude the possibility that the _LOCATION_ form and the mitochondrial form derive from two highly similar genes in bean . cross contaminations between _LOCATION_ and mitochondrial extracts were checked as before whereas chloroplastic contamination was checked with an antiserum against chloroplast leucyl trna synthetase . based on these observations further experiments were developed with protein extracts from bean because isolation of clean a. thalianamitochondria was quite inefficient . isolated bean mitochondria were treated with proteinase k before protein extraction . such a treatment strongly reduced residual _LOCATION_ contamination as checked by immunodetection with the tubulin antiserum but did not affect the signal obtained with the antibodies against glyrs confirming that glyrs was present inside mitochondria . submitochondrial localization of glyrs was then analyzed . isolated bean mitochondria were lysed and total _LOCATION_ were separated from the soluble fraction by centrifugation . glyrs was essentially detected in the soluble fraction by western blot analysis . finally mitochondria were submitted to an osmotic shock to release the outer _LOCATION_ which was separated from the remaining mitoplasts on a step gradient . lysis of the mitoplasts and centrifugation allowed us to recover the _PROTEIN_ and the inner _LOCATION_ fraction . glyrs was found only in the _PROTEIN_ fraction and was not significantly associated with the outer _LOCATION_ or the inner _LOCATION_ . following western blot analysis the enzymatic extracts from bean leaves mitochondria and chloroplasts as well as an enzymatic extract from ane . coli strain overexpressing the _LOCATION_ form of a. thaliana glyrs were fractionated by chromatography on a hydrophobic column _PROTEIN_ in standardized conditions . proteins were eluted with a _PROTEIN_ ammonium sulfate gradient . collected fractions were tested for glyrs activity using e. coli or yeast trnas and glycine as substrates and submitted to immunodetection with the antiserum against glyrs . the activity of the overexpressed glyrs reached its maximum in fractions of the elution profile and was followed by a second peak corresponding toe . coli glyrs . glyrs efficiently glycylated yeast trnas but very poorly glycylated e. colitrnas . two peaks of glyrs activity were also obtained with enzymatic extracts from bean leaves . the first peak matched the elution of the overexpressed glyrs reaching its maximum with fractions and showing efficient glycylation of yeast trnas versus e. coli trnas . the presence of the bean glyrs in these fractions was confirmed by western blot analysis using anti glyrs antibodies . it should be noted that the high ammonium sulfate concentrations present in the fractions at that point of the gradient were inhibitory for aminoacylation and desalting of fractions resulted in a fold higher activity . the second peak of glyrs activity which reached its maximum with fractions corresponded to glycylation of either yeast or e. coli trnas with a more efficient recognition of the latter . similar results were obtained with an enzymatic extract from green a. thaliana plantlets thus validating the use of bean for these analyses . chromatographic fractionation of bean chloroplast enzymatic extracts which were supposed to contain glyrs on the hydrophobic column yielded only one peak of glyrs activity corresponding to the second peak in the elution profile obtained with enzymatic extracts from bean leaves . this peak with a maximum glyrs activity in fractions and a better recognition of e. coli trnas versus yeast trnas was therefore likely to be representative of glyrs . finally the elution profile obtained upon fractionation of bean mitochondrial enzymatic extracts was the same as for chloroplast extracts showing only one peak of glyrs activity which matched the presumed glyrs elution . together with the in vivo targeting analyses and the in vitro import experiments these results imply that glyrs is dual targeted to both chloroplasts and mitochondria . unexpectedly the peak of glyrs activity detected upon fractionation of enzymatic extracts from bean leaves or a. thaliana plantlets could not be recovered upon hydrophobic chromatography of bean mitochondrial extracts although in vivo targeting studies in vitro import experiments and western blot analyses had unambiguously shown the import of glyrs into mitochondria . moreover the glyrs protein was clearly detected in the bean mitochondrial enzymatic extracts prior to chromatographic fractionation . probing with the anti glyrs antiserum revealed that during hydrophobic chromatography of mitochondrial extracts elution of the glyrs polypeptide occurred at the very end of the fractionation while washing the column with buffer devoid of ammonium sulfate and not in fractions as expected . elution from this type of column occurs according to the hydrophobic characteristics of the proteins . from these experiments it _METHOD_ that glyrs is active and quite hydrophilic in _LOCATION_ extracts but becomes inactive and hydrophobic in mitochondrial extracts . to determine to what extent the above behavior of glyrs was an effect due to the hydrophobic column enzymatic extracts from bean leaves and mitochondria were fractionated by chromatography on an anion exchange column . as done previously an enzymatic extract from ane . coli strain overexpressing the _LOCATION_ form of a. thaliana glyrs was used as a control . the overexpressed glyrs was eluted in fractions . with the bean leaf extract two peaks of glyrs activity were again obtained . one peak reached its maximum with fraction matching the elution of glyrs and showing an efficient glycylation of yeast trnas . the second peak reached its maximum with fraction with a more efficient glycylation of e. coli versus yeast trnas . anti glyrs antibodies gave a signal with fractions on western blots . this suggested that the first peak corresponded to glyrs and the second to glyrs . with the bean mitochondrial extract still only one peak of activity corresponding to glyrs was obtained . in this case the glyrs polypeptide was detected by western blotting in the fractions around fraction as expected from the profile obtained with the total leaf extract but no detectable activity was associated with these fractions even in the presence of bean total or mitochondrial trnas . based on quantitative analysis of the signals on western blots the absence of glyrs activity in the chromatographic profiles of mitochondrial extracts was unlikely to reflect a too weak concentration of the enzyme in the column fractions . the absence of glyrs activity could not be explained by an effect of the chromatography because similar results were obtained with two different types of column . as a further step toward understanding these unexpected observations made with dicotyledons we switched the analyses to another class of plants . according to the data available for wheat and maize all mitochondrial trnasgly seem to be imported from the _LOCATION_ in monocotyledonous _METHOD_ . an active glyrs of _LOCATION_ type like glyrs was therefore expected to be present in mitochondria of monocotyledons considering substrate specificity and trna/aars coevolution . wheat total and mitochondrial enzymatic extracts were prepared and fractionated on the anion exchange column . the same elution profiles were obtained for both extracts showing two peaks of glyrs activity . the first peak reached its maximum in fraction and the anti glyrs antibodies recognized in these fractions a polypeptide of the expected size suggesting the existence of an active equivalent of the bean anda . thaliana glyrs in wheat both in the _LOCATION_ and in mitochondria . the inactivation of glyrs in mitochondrial extracts therefore appeared not to be a systematic behavior of the enzyme or an artifact produced by our experimental procedures . however it was obvious from the column elution profiles that even in wheat glyrs makes a very minor contribution to the total glyrs activity present in mitochondria . the _PROTEIN_ activity showed up as a second peak having its maximum in fractions . the shouldered shape of this second peak the aminoacylation ratio of yeastversus e. coli trnas along the different fractions and the _PROTEIN_ that recognition of a wheat specific polypeptide smaller than glyrs by the anti glyrs antibodies preferentially matched the second half of the peak raised the possibility that at least two other _METHOD_ of glyrs are present in wheat mitochondria . fractions containing only glyrs activity obtained upon chromatography of a bean total enzymatic extract on either the hydrophobic or the anion exchange column were used to characterize the trna recognition specificity of glyrs . a bean chloroplast enzymatic extract which contained only glyrs was used to characterize the trna recognition specificity of glyrs . despite its prokaryotic features revealed by a strong similarity to the bacterial glyrs glyrs was able to glycylate bean total _PROTEIN_ _LOCATION_ chloroplastic and mitochondrial trnas with little difference in efficiency . moreover the aminoacylation efficiency in the presence of glyrs was the same forin vitro transcripts of a mitochondrial trnagly a _LOCATION_ trnagly and a _LOCATION_ trnagly . glyrs would therefore be sufficient to charge both the native organelle encoded trnagly and the imported trnagly in mitochondria of dicotyledonous plants unless post transcriptional modifications not present in our in vitro transcripts alter trna recognition in vivo . by contrast aminoacylation of bean chloroplastic or mitochondrial trnas in the presence of glyrs appeared to be five times less efficient as compared with bean total trnas . glyrs was also three times less efficient in glycylating the in vitromitochondrial trnagly transcript versus the two _LOCATION_ trnagly transcripts .
a. thaliana total dna was extracted from whole plants according to dellaporta et al . digested with bglii self ligated and used as a template for pcr amplification with divergent oligonucleotides and . total rna was extracted from week olda . thaliana plants and poly rna was prepared using a polyattract mrna isolation system iv kit . primer extensions were performed with oligonucleotide and with of poly rna or of total rna . sequencing reactions were primed with oligonucleotide . predictions of intracellular targeting of proteins were made using chlorop mitoprot predotar psort or targetp . isolation of organelles from a. thaliana plants gave a very poor yield and extensive _LOCATION_ contamination was observed . organelles were therefore _PROTEIN_ isolated from bean and to a lesser extent from wheat and potato . mitochondria were extracted from week old a. thaliana plants from day old etiolated bean hypocotyls or wheat plantlets or from potato tubers in extraction buffers containing mannitol m sucrose or mmannitol respectively as an osmoticum and were purified on continuous polyvinylpyrrolidone/percoll gradients . fora . thaliana mitochondria a second discontinuous polyvinylpyrrolidone/percoll gradient was necessary to reduce _LOCATION_ contamination . chloroplasts were extracted from leaves of day old bean plants . for protease treatment mitochondria were incubated in the presence of proteinase k for min at room temperature and min on ice . upon addition of mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride organelles were recovered by centrifugation through a cushion of sucrose mm hepes koh ph mmphenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride . for subfractionation mitochondria were resuspended in mm potassium phosphate buffer ph and incubated on ice for min to disrupt the outer _LOCATION_ . gentle homogenizing with a plunger was applied several times during incubation to help release of the outer _LOCATION_ . the suspension was subsequently loaded on a sucrose step gradient in a mmpotassium phosphate buffer ph containing mm edta and bovine serum albumin and centrifuged for min at g. the outer _LOCATION_ fraction and the mitoplasts were recovered at the interface and the interface respectively . both were washed in mmpotassium phosphate ph m sucrose mm edta bovine serum albumin mmglycine and pelleted for min at g. mitoplasts were resuspended in the same buffer and disrupted by three freeze/thaw cycles and two sonication cycles of s. the suspension was successively centrifuged for min at to eliminate the remaining undisrupted material and for min at g to separate the inner _LOCATION_ fraction from the _PROTEIN_ . denatured protein extracts for _PROTEIN_ polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis were prepared in mm tris hcl ph mm edta _PROTEIN_ mercaptoethanol . enzymatic extracts for aminoacylation and chromatography were prepared according to drouard et al . . aminoacylations were performed in the presence of m glycine and yeast or escherichia coli total trna bean total leaf mitochondrial or chloroplastic trna or in vitrotranscribed trnagly . the sequence corresponding to the n terminus of glyrs was amplified by pcr using the a. thaliana cdna as a template and oligonucleotides _PROTEIN_ and . to fuse this sequence with the _METHOD_ gene the pcr products were cloned into the spei/sali sites of pol _METHOD_ generating psygm in which the first aug of the glyrs sequence was in a favorable context for initiation of translation . the sequence corresponding to the n terminus of glyrs was amplified by pcr using a. thaliana total dna as a template and oligonucleotides _PROTEIN_ and . the pcr products were cloned into thespei/sali sites of pol _METHOD_ generating psygo . the complete _PROTEIN_ cassette containing the cauliflower mosaic virus promoter the _METHOD_ fusion and the cauliflower mosaic virus terminator was cut out of psygm and psygo withhindiii and cloned into the binary vector pgptv kan . the resulting plasmids and respectively were used to transform the agrobacterium tumefaciens strain . transformation was performed by infiltration of nicotiana benthamiana leaves with a suspension of a. tumefaciens carrying or . after h protoplats were prepared from the infiltrated leaves . protoplasts were stained with a mitochondria specific dye and analyzed using an _METHOD_ microscope . the sequence corresponding to the n terminus of glyrs was first amplified by pcr using the a. thaliana cdna clone as a template and oligonucleotides and . this introduced a point mutation at position replacing the second aug codon with an auu isoleucine codon . the pcr products were cloned into thencoi/bamhi sites of pck _METHOD_ yielding a _METHOD_ fusion . the obtained plasmid was named _PROTEIN_ . theecori/hindiii fragments from _PROTEIN_ and psygo which contained the tobacco etch virus translation leader the glyrs or glyrs n terminus the _METHOD_ gene and the cauliflower mosaic virus terminator were cloned into pbluescript _PROTEIN_ . these constructs were used as templates forin vitro transcription/translation carried out with a tnttm coupled reticulocyte lysate system in the presence of methionine . import labeled fusion proteins into purified potato mitochondria was performed according to wischmann and schuster and analyzed by _PROTEIN_ polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis . the sequence of the _LOCATION_ form of glyrs was amplified by pcr using the a. thaliana cdna as a template and oligonucleotides and and cloned into . the resulting plasmid _PROTEIN_ was used to transform thee . coli strain . overexpression in e. coli was induced with mmisopropyl thio d galactopyranoside . protein extraction under denaturing conditions was performed according to the manufacturer 's instructions . extracts were fractionated by _PROTEIN_ polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis . the polypeptide corresponding to glyrs was electroeluted from the gels and injected into rabbits to raise antibodies . alternately native enzymatic extracts were prepared from the e. coli strain overexpressing glyrs and used for liquid chromatography fractionation . proteins were separated by _PROTEIN_ polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis electrotransferred onto immobilontm p _LOCATION_ and submitted to immunological detection following classical protocols . antisera were used at a dilution . antibodies against mitochondrial superoxide dismutase were a gift from dirk and antibodies against tubulin were from amersham pharmacia biotech . antisera against bean chloroplastic leucyl trna synthetase were obtained previously . binding of the primary antibodies was revealed by chemiluminescence using peroxidase conjugated secondary antibodies and ecl reagents . enzymatic extracts were fractionated by medium pressure chromatography on a ml _PROTEIN_ pe hydrophobic column _METHOD_ driven by a biologic integrated system . the samples adjusted to m ammonium sulfate were loaded at ml/min on the column equilibrated with a mm tris hcl buffer ph containing m ammonium sulfate propanediol mm edta mm mercaptoethanol mmphenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride mmdiisopropylfluorophosphate . after washing with the same buffer elution was performed at ml/min with a linear ammonium sulfate gradient . fractions of ml were collected and aliquots were submitted to aminoacylation assays and western blot analyses . enzymatic extracts were also fractionated on a ml unotm anion exchange column . the samples were loaded at ml/min on the column equilibrated with a mm tris hcl buffer ph containing mmnacl mm propanediol mm edta mm mercaptoethanol mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride mmdiisopropylfluorophosphate . elution was performed at ml/min with a ml linear gradient from to mm nacl followed by a ml linear gradient from to mm nacl . fractions of ml were collected . constructs encoding trnasgly were amplified by pcr with the relevant primers so that the trna gene sequence was directly fused to the rna polymerase promoter at the terminus and to abstni site at the terminus . pcr products were cloned into the ecori or ecori/bamhi sites of . after bstni digestion in vitrotranscription of these constructs with rna polymerase yielded mature sized unmodified trna transcripts with a cca end . the following oligonucleotides were used as primers for mitochondrial native trnagly _PROTEIN_ gaattgtaatacgactcactatagcggaaatagcttaatggtag and _PROTEIN_ gaattc _PROTEIN_ for _LOCATION_ trnagly _PROTEIN_ gaattgtaatacgactcactatagcaccagtggtctagtggtag and _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ for _LOCATION_ trnagly gcaagaattc gaattgtaatacgactcactatagcgtctgtagtccaacggttag and cgcggatcc tggtgcgtctgccgggagtcgaac .
