the _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ of the chloroplast is the center of oxygenic photosynthesis . to better understand the function of the luminal compartment within the _LOCATION_ network we have carried out a systematic characterization of the luminal _LOCATION_ proteins from the model organism arabidopsis thaliana . our data show that the _LOCATION_ lumen has its own specific proteome of which proteins were identified . besides a large group of peptidyl prolyl cis trans isomerases and proteases a family of novel psbp domain proteins was found . an analysis of the luminal signal peptides showed that of luminal precursors were marked by a twin arginine motif for import via the tat pathway . to compare the model organismarabidopsis with another typical higher plant we investigated the proteome from the _LOCATION_ lumen of spinach and found that the luminal proteins from both plants corresponded well . as a complement to our experimental investigation we made a theoretical prediction of the luminal proteins from the whole arabidopsisgenome and estimated that the _LOCATION_ lumen of the chloroplast contains proteins .
whilearabidopsis is an excellent model organism for molecular biological studies biochemical work has been difficult due to the small leaf size and the small amount of material . the introduction of a hydroponical culture made it possible to overcome this drawback and to grow plants with considerably larger leaves that provided sufficient amounts of plant material in a high quality well suited for biochemical preparations . an essential element in this technique was the restriction of light to h/day which enabled us to grow the plants for weeks without flowering . using arabidopsis plants cultivated in this way we were able to purify the luminal fraction in the same high quality as was obtained in the original method for the isolation of _LOCATION_ lumen from spinach chloroplasts . a typical lumen preparation from arabidopsis started with g of wet weight leaf material and yielded in mg g of leaves . an important prerequisite for a concise mapping of the luminalarabidopsis proteins was a reproducible two dimensional electrophoresis system that was capable of resolving the major part of the luminal proteins . to meet these requirements we used a combination of nonlinear ph gradients and a polyacrylamide gradient gel that allowed us to detect proteins with isoelectric points between and and _METHOD_ between and kda . samples from different lumen preparations were analyzed in more than experiments . the two dimensional maps of the luminal arabidopsis proteins showed an excellent reproducibility and a representative experiment is shown in fig . a . from the complete set of experiments two dimensional gels were selected for a detailed image analysis . the total number of protein spots that were detected on the two dimensional gels was between and and of those were present on all gels . the protein pattern of the two dimensional gel in fig . ashows clearly that most proteins were detected in the acidic region of the ph gradient while the group of basic proteins was relatively small . it should be noticed too that there is a distinct gap between the proteins in the acidic and the basic region of the ph gradient where only few proteins could be detected . since of the luminal proteins were found in the acidic range of the ph gradient we analyzed these proteins in more detail using a two dimensional electrophoresis system with a linear ph gradient from to . a typical two dimensional map of the luminal proteins with isoelectric points in this ph range is shown in fig . b . an evaluation of the images of independent experiments showed that protein spots were present on each two dimensional gel of the ph range from to . having established a reproducible two dimensional map of the chloroplast lumen from arabidopsis we systematically analyzed the luminal proteins by both maldi tof _METHOD_ _METHOD_ and amino terminal microsequencing . using this combination of methods we were able to determine the amino termini of the mature proteins and to correct _LOCATION_ in the gene models of several proteins . this approach could be successfully applied to protein spots but others of the spots that were detected in all two dimensional gels were too weak for an analysis by both _METHOD_ _METHOD_ and microsequencing . in total proteins were detected and each protein was identified in at least two independent experiments except for the three putative fibrillins with apparent _METHOD_ at and kda . although these proteins were analyzed only once the identification was specific in each single case and the corresponding protein spots were detected in all two dimensional gels analyzed . hence there is no doubt that these proteins were correctly identified . the two dimensional gel in fig . a shows that of the identified proteins were detected in the acidic range of the ph gradient while nine proteins were found in the basic region . the analysis of the proteins by _METHOD_ _METHOD_ and microsequencing showed that the major part of the proteins from the luminal fraction was intact . there were only few degradation products found . as b shows there are two fragments of that were detected in all two dimensional gels analyzed . in addition we also detected a degradation product for _PROTEIN_ but this fragment occurred less frequently and did not appear in a distinct pattern as those from . one of the principal objectives of this study was to identify a representative group of proteins from the chloroplast lumen of arabidopsis and to find indications for their possible functions . hence it was important to confirm that the proteins that were identified in the luminal fraction from arabidopsischloroplasts were truly lumen located . the purification method alone was no proof for a luminal location . as fig . b shows we detected among the luminal proteins a putative glyoxylase and the cyclophilin that are putative stroma proteins but were present in similar amounts as known luminal proteins such as _PROTEIN_ and _PROTEIN_ . to resolve whether the proteins that were identified in the luminal fraction were resident in the chloroplast lumen or not we performed a concise analysis of their transit peptides . all proteins that are targeted to the chloroplast lumen are synthesized in the _LOCATION_ as precursors and cross the chloroplast envelope and the _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ in a two stage import via a stromal intermediate . accordingly the signal peptides of luminal precursors comprise two parts of which one is designed for the transit through the envelope and the second one for the import into the _LOCATION_ lumen . once the precursor of a luminal protein has reached the chloroplast stroma the envelope transit region is cleaved off and the intermediate is routed into the _LOCATION_ lumen by either the sec pathway or the dependent twin arginine translocation pathway . while the sec machinery is used by proteins that tolerate partial unfolding during the import proteins that need to be imported in a folded state cross the _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ via the tat complex . the bipartite transit peptides for the import into the _LOCATION_ lumen are a distinguishing feature of the luminal proteins . they are marked by a hydrophilic serine and threonine rich region for the transit through the envelope and a _LOCATION_ targeting region with a typical hydrophobic core close to the processing site . in addition the transit peptides of proteins that are routed by the tat complex reveal a distinctive twin arginine motif in the beginning of the hydrophobic core region and a highly hydrophobic residue two or three positions after the twin arginine motif . by contrast the transit peptides of proteins that are translocated by the sec machinery do not have a twin arginine motif but a single lysine residue next to the amino terminal end of the hydrophobic core region . the transit peptides of all proteins that were identified in the luminal fraction of arabidopsis chloroplasts were comprehensively analyzed whether or not they revealed the features of bipartite signal peptides . of the proteins that were identified in the luminal fraction had indeed a bipartite transit peptide . shows the _LOCATION_ targeting regions of these transit peptides aligned with the program clustalw . the alignment shows that all transit peptides possess a hydrophobic core signal peptides have a twin arginine motif that marks them for translocation by the tat pathway and have a lysine residue close to the hydrophobic core which is a characteristic of signal peptides routed by the sec machinery . only the processing protease appears to be an exception from this rule and has an arginine instead of lysine residue next to the amino terminal end of the hydrophobic core . the only protein for which it was hard to decide whether the transit peptide really contained a targeting signal for the _LOCATION_ lumen was the kda protein . the prepeptide of this protein had a rather indistinct hydrophobic core region and an arginine triplet instead of a conventional twin arginine motif . to resolve this apparent conflict we searched the _PROTEIN_ sequence tag databases for homologues and examined their transit peptides . the soybean clone gm and the tomato clone encoded for full length homologues of the kda protein and both had typical bipartite transit peptides with a plain twin arginine motif . this ensured that the prepeptide of the kda protein contained only an unusual variant of the twin arginine motif and indeed was a true bipartite transit peptide . in the case of the kda protein no arabidopsisgene was available that could be used for an examination of the signal peptide . it could only be mapped to the tentative consensus sequence in the arabidopsis gene index which can not be used to assess its subcellular location . hence we searched the _PROTEIN_ sequence tag databases and found several cdnas from other plants that encoded the complete precursor of a homologue of the kda protein . two representative examples were the tomato cdna and the soybean cdna gm . an analysis of the signal peptides of these homologues demonstrated clearly that they had all features of a bipartite transit peptide which indicates that the kda protein from arabidopsis is a lumen located protein as well . the other proteins that were identified in the luminal fraction from arabidopsis came either from the chloroplast stroma such as the small subunit of ribulose bisphosphate _PROTEIN_ or the _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ such as the ftsh protease or the and subunits of the _PROTEIN_ synthase . as for the four putative fibrillins and the kda protein the subcellular location could not be predicted reliably and hence it was left undecided . as table i shows the entire range of the luminal proteins of arabidopsis that were identified in this work covers both well established classical proteins such as violaxanthin de epoxidase and the extrinsic subunits of photosystem ii as well as novel proteins such as the large group of cyclophilins and _PROTEIN_ type peptidyl prolyl cis trans isomerases . in addition there are many new proteins for which yet no function is known such as for instance the psbp domain proteins . the silver stained two dimensional gels in figs . a andb show clearly that the major proteins in the luminal fraction from arabidopsis were the _METHOD_ of the extrinsic subunits of photosystem ii and of plastocyanin . as shown in table i the arabidopsis genome encodes for two similar _METHOD_ of each of these proteins and we identified all of them except for the protein _PROTEIN_ which despite strong efforts could not be found . b shows plainly that the protein pattern reveals a marked isoelectric heterogeneity for these proteins . the extrinsic protein _PROTEIN_ for instance was found in as many as four spots excluding those two that contained degraded _METHOD_ of _PROTEIN_ . however we have not yet investigated whether this heterogeneity represents post translational modifications of the single protein or just an artificial effect of the two dimensional electrophoresis system . remarkably we also found a group of six proteins with apparent _METHOD_ between and kda that have a psbp domain that is related to the extrinsic psbp protein of photosystem ii . two further luminal proteins with functions for photosystem ii were found . the xanthophyll cycle enzyme violaxanthin de epoxidase participates in the protection of photosystem ii from excess light and _PROTEIN_ is essential for photosystem ii assembly . the positions of these proteins are marked in fig . a andb at the apparent molecular _METHOD_ of and kda . as with the extrinsic subunits of photosystem ii both _PROTEIN_ and violaxanthin de epoxidase revealed isoelectric heterogeneity and were detected in three different spots . a distinct isoelectric heterogeneity was also observed for the putative ascorbate peroxidase _PROTEIN_ the pentapeptide protein _PROTEIN_ and for the kda protein that is a homologue of the _PROTEIN_ immunophilin of spinach . proteases are important regulatory proteins and their presence in the _LOCATION_ lumen was postulated for a long time . degp and the processing protease were the first proteases that were found to be lumen located . in this work three novel luminal proteases were identified that include a _PROTEIN_ terminal proteinase like protein with an apparent _METHOD_ of kda a degp like kda protein and the kda _PROTEIN_ protease . as fig . b shows isoelectric heterogeneity was observed for this group of proteins too except for the _PROTEIN_ protease . immunophilins play an important role in protein folding and comprise the largest group of the novel luminal proteins shown in table i . they consist of two groups . there are three putative cyclophilin type peptidyl prolyl cis trans isomerases _PROTEIN_ that were identified at the apparent molecular _METHOD_ of and kda and five putative _PROTEIN_ type _PROTEIN_ with apparent molecular _METHOD_ between and kda . it is noteworthy that five of these putative isomerases were basic proteins . fig . reveals that only the kda and the kda proteins that belong to the putative cyclophilin type _PROTEIN_ and the kda _PROTEIN_ type _PROTEIN_ isolog were detected in the acidic range of the two dimensional gels . as for the other seven luminal proteins that were identified no functions are known yet . two pentapeptide repeat proteins were identified of which _PROTEIN_ was the first higher plant protein that possessed this motif . the kda protein that was found in this study is a novel member of this group . in addition we identified five further proteins with apparent molecular _METHOD_ between and kda that do not reveal any known motifs patterns or domains . sincearabidopsis is a prominent model organism we wanted to know if its luminal protein ensemble was representative for other higher plants . the organism of choice for this study was spinach because the preparation of the luminal content of the spinach chloroplast was thoroughly characterized and known to produce a highly pure fraction of luminal proteins . to obtain a typical two dimensional map of the luminal spinach proteome a set of nine independent two dimensional experiments was carried out and one representative two dimensional gel is shown in fig . . the protein pattern revealed more than spots of which were detected in all nine two dimensional experiments . a comparison of figs . and ashows that the two dimensional patterns of the luminal proteins from spinach and arabidopsis chloroplasts are very similar . as with arabidopsis the major part of luminal proteins from spinach was detected in the acidic range of the ph gradient and there is a similar gap between the acidic and the basic proteins as it was found for the luminal proteins from arabidopsis . although the two dimensional pattern of the lumen proteins from spinach closely resembles the one from arabidopsis it is obvious that it reveals considerably less isoelectric heterogeneity . since no complete genome is available for spinach protein identification was _PROTEIN_ carried out by microsequencing which restricted the analysis of the luminal proteome from spinach to the more abundant proteins . nevertheless luminal proteins from the spinach chloroplast were identified and tableii shows that they correspond well to the luminal proteins from arabidopsis . all groups of proteins that were found in the _LOCATION_ lumen of arabidopsis were also identified in the luminal compartment of the spinach chloroplast . some differences were observed however . among the luminal proteins from spinach we could not identify any _METHOD_ of plastocyanin and the extrinsic photosystem ii subunits psbo and _PROTEIN_ . in addition we did not find any arabidopsis homologues to the kda protein and polyphenol oxidase . while we could not resolve experimentally if the kda protein was really absent inarabidopsis we could analyze the luminal content of thearabidopsis chloroplast for the presence of polyphenol oxidase activity . in two preparations of lumen fraction from arabidopsis no polyphenol oxidase activity was detectable and as with garden pea this enzyme _METHOD_ not to be present inarabidopsis . however for of the luminal proteins from the spinach chloroplast a homologue in arabidopsis was identified . in addition there are homologous proteins from garden pea that can be related to both the luminal proteins from spinach and arabidopsis . all of these data indicate that the luminal compartments of these three plants essentially comprise the same proteins . as a complement to our experimental characterization of the _LOCATION_ lumen from arabidopsis we made a theoretical prediction of the luminal proteins from the wholearabidopsis proteome to estimate the entire number of proteins in the _LOCATION_ lumen . to detect the luminal proteins within the arabidopsis proteome we used the bipartite transit peptides as a marker because they contain the information that is necessary to target these proteins to the chloroplast lumen and hence are specific for their subcellular location . the prediction was carried out in three steps . first we screened the _PROTEIN_ version of the complete fasta database of arabidopsis proteins with the program targetp for chloroplast located proteins . from a total number of arabidopsis proteins were predicted to have a subcellular location in the chloroplast . in the second stage we screened the entire targetp predicted chloroplast proteome for potential signal peptides using the program signalp and obtained signal peptides that were at least residues in length . among those had a length between and residues and thus were candidates for transit peptides of luminal proteins . finally the preselected sequences were examined manually for typical features of bipartite transit peptides such as a hydrophilic serine and threonine rich amino terminal region and a hydrophobic domain close to the processing site . in addition the complete precursors were scanned for the presence of known pattern and profiles to exclude proteins that could not reside in the _LOCATION_ lumen such as ion channels or chlorophyll binding antennae proteins . to avoid false positives and to keep the number of missed luminal proteins to a minimum the manual analysis of the signalp selected sequences was carried out two times and conflicts between the two prediction cycles were examined again in each single case . from the sequences that were individually analyzed were excluded and were predicted to belong to putative luminal proteins . the result from this evaluation is summarized in table iii and a summary of the single steps of the prediction is provided in tableiv . to evaluate the prediction we used the experimentally identified luminal proteins for which full length sequences were available . the kda protein for which no gene is known yet had to be excluded . the targetp predicted chloroplast proteome contained of the identified luminal proteins . violaxanthin de epoxidase was missed by targetp which probably was due to its unusually long transit peptide . from the identified luminal proteins that were present in the predicted chloroplast proteome were predicted to be lumen located . the _PROTEIN_ reason why nine proteins escaped prediction was the preselection of putative luminal proteins with signalp that failed to recognize these proteins . remarkably all of their precursors but one had a signal peptide with a twin arginine motif which indicates that we particularly underestimated proteins of the tat pathway . in summary the prediction found of the experimentally identified luminal proteins that were present in the arabidopsis proteome which was a rate of . if we assume that these proteins are a representative part of the luminal proteome we can extrapolate from the number of predicted luminal proteins and estimate that the _LOCATION_ lumen comprises proteins .
plants were cultivated hydroponically according to et al. . a. thaliana ecotype columbia was grown for weeks with h light per day and a light intensity of of photons and spinach was raised for weeks with h of light per day . the lumen fraction from spinach chloroplasts was isolated according to kieselbach et al . . the luminal content fromarabidopsis chloroplasts was isolated in the same way with the following minor changes . to avoid protein degradation mm of edta was added to the last washing buffer and of pefablock was added to the _LOCATION_ just prior to the yedapress treatment . the lumen fraction was concentrated using centriprep ym concentrators and protein quantification was carried out according to bradford using bovine serum albumin as a standard . the luminal proteins were separated by isoelectric focusing in the first and by _PROTEIN_ polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ in the second dimension . the samples for analytical two dimensional gels contained of protein and those for western blots for microsequencing contained of protein . the luminal proteins were solubilized in m urea m thiourea mmdithiothreitol and carrier ampholytes and applied during rehydration to a nonlinear ipg strip ph or a to linear ipg strip ph . the strips were allowed to rehydrate overnight at and then transferred to ipgphor cup loading strip holders and covered with paraffin oil . the proteins were focused for min at v followed by a h gradient from to v and a min gradient from to v. the isoelectric focusing was then completed at a constant voltage of v until v h was reached . subsequently the strips were equilibrated first for min in mm tris hcl m urea glycerol _PROTEIN_ and dithiothreitol and then for min in the same buffer without dithiothreitol but with iodoacetamide and a trace of bromphenol blue . in the second dimension _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ according to laemmli was carried out in a gradient slab gel using a protean ii xl system from bio rad . before the polymerization of the gel mm of sodium thiosulfate was added to the monomer solution to _PROTEIN_ the background staining with silver . proteins were detected by silver staining according to bjellqvist et al . . the two dimensional gels were scanned using an image scanner and evaluated with the image master two dimensional software . the apparent _METHOD_ of the proteins that were detected on the two dimensional gels were determined manually or with the image master two dimensional software using identified proteins of known _METHOD_ as a reference . maldi tof analysis of in gel digested proteins was carried out with a reflex iii _METHOD_ spectrometer from bruker . the in gel digests were performed using sequencing grade modified trypsin and analyzed as described . data base searches were done with the _METHOD_ biotools software from bruker using the mascot search engine . if a protein could not unambiguously be identified by a fingerprint spectrum its identity was confirmed by a postsource decay analysis of single peptides . amino terminal microsequencing was carried out with a procise sequencer from applied _METHOD_ . proteins were sequenced from polyvinylidene difluoride _LOCATION_ following resolution by two dimensional electrophoresis essentially as described . the individual analysis of protein sequences by similarity searches pattern and profile searches alignments and hydrophobicity plots was carried out using the expasy tools . the prediction of chloroplast targeted proteins encoded within thea . thaliana genome was performed by subjecting the _PROTEIN_ version of the proteome currently consisting of proteins to an analysis using the program targetp via the world wide web interface . the terminal portion of each protein sequence not exceeding residues in length was analyzed by the plant version of targetp and all chloroplast predicted proteins were used . the prediction of signal peptides and the peptide cleavage products was performed using the portable version of signalp . the _METHOD_ targetp and signalp are available on the world wide web at www.cbs.dtu.dk/services and the arabidopsis proteome is accessible on the internet atftp .
