most chloroplast and mitochondrial proteins are synthesized with n terminal presequences that direct their import into the appropriate organelle . in this report we have analyzed the specificity of standard in vitro assays for import into isolated pea chloroplasts and mitochondria . we find that chloroplast protein import is highly specific because mitochondrial proteins are not imported to any detectable levels . surprisingly however pea mitochondria import a range of chloroplast protein precursors with the same efficiency as chloroplasts including those of plastocyanin the kda photosystem ii protein _PROTEIN_ and coproporphyrinogen iii oxidase . these import reactions are dependent on the across the inner mitochondrial _LOCATION_ and furthermore marker enzyme assays and western blotting studies exclude any import by contaminating chloroplasts in the preparation . the pea mitochondria specifically recognize information in the chloroplast targeting presequences because they also import a fusion comprising the presequence of coproporphyrinogen iii oxidase linked to green _METHOD_ protein . however the same construct is targeted exclusively into chloroplastsin vivo indicating that the in vitromitochondrial import reactions are unphysiological possibly because essential specificity _PROTEIN_ are absent in these assays . finally we show that disruption of potential amphipathic helices in one presequence does not block import into pea mitochondria indicating that other features are recognized .
previous studies had shown that pea _PROTEIN_ is targeted to both chloroplasts and mitochondria in vivo and the original objective of this study was to characterize further this process using in vitro assays for the import of proteins by isolated chloroplasts and mitochondria . a principal aim was to test the importance of an amphipathic helix for the mitochondrial targeting process . the presequence for pea _PROTEIN_ is in general more characteristic of chloroplast targeted proteins than those of mitochondria being relatively long and enriched in hydroxylated amino acids . however the helical wheel projection shown in indicates that two short amphipathic regions can form if the presequence adopts a helical structure . the precursor of _PROTEIN_ was synthesized in vitro by transcription of a cdna clone followed by translation in a reticulocyte lysate system in the presence of methionine/cysteine . the precursor was then incubated with isolated pea chloroplasts . it can be seen that the kda precursor protein is imported and processed to the predicted size of the mature protein and that it is located almost exclusively in the stroma which is consistent with the observation that the enzyme activity is soluble . the precursor is also imported and processed by isolated pea mitochondria as expected given the in vivodata described above . as positive controls for the import reactions we incubated the organelles with precursors to the mitochondrial alternative oxidase _PROTEIN_ and the major light harvesting chlorophyll binding protein _PROTEIN_ of the chloroplast _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ . as expected the kda precursor of _PROTEIN_ was found to be imported only into mitochondria whereas the kda was targeted only into chloroplasts . this indicates that our organelle preparations do not contain significant contamination of the other organelle an observation supported by other studies . whereas the _PROTEIN_ and _PROTEIN_ precursors are often used as substrates for mitochondrial/chloroplast import assays we also analyzed other precursor proteins as controls for the import principally to check for cross contamination of the purified chloroplast preparations with mitochondria and vice versa . the substrates used were the kda subunit of the oxygen evolving complex plastocyanin _PROTEIN_ a protein involved in the assembly of photosystem ii and the tetrapyrrole biosynthesis enzyme cpo which is located in the chloroplast stroma . the origin of the cdnas and the constructs used to generate radiolabeled precursor proteins for each of these are listed in tablei . fig . shows that as expected all four proteins are imported into chloroplasts processed to the mature size and targeted correctly within the organelle . _PROTEIN_ and plastocyanin are _LOCATION_ lumen proteins and are hence found primarily in the _LOCATION_ fraction although the stromal intermediate of _PROTEIN_ is also apparent . cpo is targeted into the stroma . however quite unexpectedly all four precursors were also imported into isolated pea mitochondria . is imported and processed by the mitochondria to an intermediate size product that runs as a kda protein . is converted to two products of similar sizes to those found in chloroplasts and pcpo is processed to a protein of similar size to the mature protein generated by chloroplasts . pre plastocyanin is readily imported by mitochondria and processed exclusively to an intermediate size band that runs almost exactly between the precursor and mature size pc proteins . several points can be drawn from these and other data . first these chloroplast proteins are imported by the pea mitochondria with the same efficiency as into chloroplasts . second we have found other chloroplast proteins are also imported by isolated mitochondria including glutathione peroxidase and the kda subunit of the oxygen evolving complex . this means that several different chloroplast proteins including stromal extrinsic _LOCATION_ and _LOCATION_ lumen proteins can be imported by plant mitochondria . finally although most of the experiments were carried out using mitochondria from pea leaves similar import characteristics were observed for mitochondria isolated from maize leaves and potato it should be emphasized that several chloroplast precursor proteins are not imported into mitochondria including porphobilinogen deaminase ferrochelatase ii and _PROTEIN_ . to demonstrate that the lack of precursor specificity seen in the in vitro mitochondrial import assays was not due to contamination with chloroplasts further experiments were conducted . first we made a precise measurement of the chloroplast contamination in the mitochondrial preparation . in chloroplast import experiments the organelles were added to give a final chlorophyll concentration of mg/ml . the mitochondrial import mixture used in fig . was found to have a chlorophyll concentration of i.e . the chloroplast content is less than that of the chloroplast suspension . the organelle fractions were also assayed for the mitochondrial and chloroplast marker enzymes cytochrome c oxidase and glyceraldehyde phosphate dehydrogenase respectively . in _PROTEIN_ no glyceraldehyde phosphate dehydrogenase activity was detected in the _LOCATION_ fractions and only very low levels of cytochrome c oxidase activity were detected in the chloroplast fractions . second purified mitochondrial and chloroplast preparations were serially diluted and the samples were analyzed by western blot with a mixture of antibodies raised against the kda protein of the oxygen evolving complex of photosystem ii and the subunit of the mitochondrial _PROTEIN_ . the import assays shown in fig . contained mitochondria or chloroplasts at an equivalent protein concentration and we used western blotting to assess the cross contamination in these preparations . lanes m and care samples of mg/ml protein of mitochondria and chloroplasts respectively . the data show that the antibodies recognize a single protein whereas the subunit antibodies recognize the subunit and also the slightly smaller _PROTEIN_ subunit of the _LOCATION_ _PROTEIN_ synthase inlane c. importantly the antibodies do not recognize any protein in the mitochondrial samples even at the highest protein concentration whereas the protein is recognized in chloroplast samples even after fold dilution . these data confirm that the chloroplast concentration in the mitochondrial samples is very low indeed . finally we carried out chloroplast import assays at the same concentration of chlorophyll as that found contaminating the mitochondrial preparations under the conditions used in the mitochondrial in vitro import assay . shows that is not imported into chloroplasts when the organelles are diluted to chlorophyll although efficient import was observed in the standard import assay . this demonstrates that the few chloroplasts contaminating the mitochondrial preparation could not possibly be responsible for the observed efficient import of chloroplast proteins . although plant mitochondria are clearly capable of importing a wide range of chloroplast proteins the reverse is not the case . in numerous experiments we observed no import whatsoever of paox into chloroplasts even at high concentration and under either chloroplast or mitochondrial import assay conditions although paox was shown in this study and previously to be imported into mitochondria . furthermore we observed no import of other mitochondrial precursor proteins including nad malic enzyme and the adenine nucleotide carrier . these results indicate that the chloroplast in vitro import assay is highly specific . other studies indicate that the energetic requirements of the chloroplast and mitochondrial import processes are significantly different . the potassium ionophore valinomycin was found to inhibit completely the import of both mitochondrial and chloroplast proteins into mitochondria . this dissipates the _LOCATION_ potential across the inner mitochondrial _LOCATION_ which then blocks mitochondrial protein import but does not affect chloroplast import . again this shows that the mitochondria are able to import chloroplast proteins and the data furthermore suggest that the usual inner _LOCATION_ import machinery may be involved because this machinery depends on an electrical potential . the data shown above demonstrate that a range of chloroplast proteins is imported by plant mitochondria with the same efficiency as into chloroplasts . it appeared unlikely that these proteins are all imported into mitochondria in vivo because pc _PROTEIN_ and are involved in the light dependent reactions of photosynthesis and thus would not be expected to function in mitochondria . one possible explanation was that these proteins are imported by mitochondria in vivo but are then degraded . although this seemed unlikely to us to address this possibility we used fusions to _METHOD_ to study the targeting in vivo . this marker protein is highly stable and can be targeted into either chloroplasts or plant mitochondria in vivo by attaching an appropriate targeting signal . significantly import into both organelles was observed using the dual targeting presequence of aminoacyl trna synthetases . we therefore tested one of the _LOCATION_ proteins found to import into isolated mitochondria and we fused the cdna encoding the complete precursor for cpo and that for just the presequence to the coding sequence for _METHOD_ . as a control we used the transit peptide for the dual targeted histidyl trna synthetase fromarabidopsis . all constructs were under the control of the promoter . they were introduced into tobacco leaf guard cells via particle bombardment and then the _METHOD_ _METHOD_ was visualized by confocal microscopy . as can be seen in viewed h after bombardment the athrs leader sequence targeted _METHOD_ to two sorts of organelles . the large oval ones are chloroplasts because the _METHOD_ _METHOD_ coincides exactly with that for chlorophyll . the smaller punctate organelles are the size and morphology of mitochondria . in contrast both cpo _METHOD_ fusions were targeted exclusively to chloroplasts . several independently transformed cells were examined both guard cells and epidermal cells and in no case was any mitochondrial targeting detectable . it remained possible however that the _METHOD_ passenger protein was interfering with targeting to mitochondria so to test this we carried out an import experiment with the cpoleader _METHOD_ fusion protein . fig . shows that it was imported in vitro into both chloroplasts and mitochondria with similar efficiency . thus although cpo _METHOD_ was not targeted to mitochondria in vivo it was imported into mitochondriain vitro demonstrating that the in vitromitochondrial import system lacks specificity . one of the proposed characteristics of mitochondrial targeting regions is the presence of an amphipathic helix . the presequence of _PROTEIN_ has been shown previously to target both the mature _PROTEIN_ protein and the reporter enzyme phosphinothricin acetyltransferase _PROTEIN_ to mitochondria and chloroplasts in vivo . when the presequence was mapped onto a helical wheel projection in which positively charged residues are aligned on one side of the projection if the protein has amphipathic helical properties two clusters of positively charged residues were seen on either side of the projection . several of these residues were found to be conserved when the presequences of _PROTEIN_ proteins from pea tobacco soybean andarabidopsis were aligned . to analyze the effects of positive residues in the _PROTEIN_ presequence on import into mitochondria and chloroplasts in vitro several mutants were made in which these residues were changed individually or in multiples to alanine using site directed mutagenesis . these were then tested in import experiments . the wild type _PROTEIN_ presequence fused to _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ was imported into and processed within a protease protected location in both organelles . the mature _PROTEIN_ protein was present in the chloroplast stroma therefore the _PROTEIN_ presequence does not contain any _LOCATION_ targeting information . all of the mutant _PROTEIN_ precursors were found to be imported into and processed within both organelles . when the import samples were run side by side on the same gel the mature bands seen in the _LOCATION_ and chloroplast fractions were slightly different sizes in agreement with previous this result suggests that the organelle preparations were not cross contaminated otherwise more than one band would be seen in each processed fraction . processing of the precursors was not predicted to be affected by altering these positive residues according to the predicted cleavage sites proposed for mitochondrial and chloroplastic proteins . some differences between the different precursor proteins were observed in this particular experiment . for example there appears to be some reduction of import of the double mutant into mitochondria and possibly also of . in addition there was increased accumulation of the precursor at the surface of the mitochondria compared with other precursors . however we repeated the imports several times and did not always observe these effects . our overall conclusion is that none of the mutations have a significant effect on the import efficiency .
pro mixtm l methionine/cysteine was _PROTEIN_ from amersham biosciences . the _METHOD_ rna polymerases and rnasin were supplied by promega . thermolysin was from sigma and proteinase k was from bdh . cap analog was obtained from roche molecular biochemicals . table i details the source of plasmids encoding the cdnas for the precursor proteins used in this study . peas var . feltham first were obtained from local seed merchants and grown as described previously . the synthesis of transcripts in vitro was carried out using the _METHOD_ from promega corp. according to the manufacturer 's instructions but with some minor changes . transcription of mrna from a plasmid template was carried out in transcription buffer with the addition of units of rnasin mm dithiothreitol mmatp mm ctp mm _PROTEIN_ mmutp mm cap analog and units of rna polymerase . the mixture was incubated for an initial min at . after the min preincubation _PROTEIN_ was added to a final concentration of mm and the mixture was incubated for another min . the transcription mixture was extracted with an equal volume of phenol chloroform before being precipitated with volumes of v/v ethanol in the presence of volume of ammonium acetate . translation of the transcripts was carried out in v/v rabbit reticulocyte lysate mm amino acid mixture units of rnasin and of pro mixtm l methionine/cysteine . the mixture was incubated at for h to allow translation to take place . the resultant radiolabeled proteins were used immediately for import assays . chloroplasts were isolated from to day old peas as described and mitochondria were isolated from to day old peas as described with some minor changes . instead of two washes the isolated mitochondria were washed once with rm i buffer before finally being resuspended in ml of rm i buffer . mitochondrial import reactions contained of protein in a reaction . the import assay into isolated mitochondria was _PROTEIN_ from ref . citation . the incubation buffer also contained mm malate mmmethionine mm cysteine mm _PROTEIN_ and adp . freshly isolated mitochondria equivalent to of protein were resuspended in import buffer and then v/v translation products were added . the assay was allowed to proceed for min at . at the end of incubation the import mixture was diluted if required with rm i buffer before being divided into two equal portions . one portion was directly layered onto a w/v sucrose cushion and mitochondria were reisolated by centrifugation at top speed for min in a microcentrifuge at . the other half was treated with proteinase k incubated at for min followed by the addition of mmphenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride to terminate the activity of the protease . the mitochondria were then reisolated as above . the mitochondria of both protease treated and untreated portions were washed once with ml of rm i buffer before lysing them in mm _PROTEIN_ naoh ph . the lysed mitochondria were dissolved in _PROTEIN_ loading buffer and then stored at until analysis . when used valinomycin was added to the mitochondria prior to addition of the translation product . samples were analyzed by _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ and fluorography as described . the protocols for assaying the import of precursors into isolated chloroplasts were essentially the same as those described previously with some modifications . in the import buffer v/v translation products were used instead of and at the end of the reaction mm cysteine was added as well as unlabeled methionine . the mixture was incubated at for min instead of min under continuous illumination . after import the chloroplasts were fractionated as described . a serial dilution of _LOCATION_ and chloroplast preparations was set up starting with protein and diluting fold to a final concentration of protein . a aliquot of each dilution was electrophoresed on _PROTEIN_ acrylamide gels . proteins were transferred to nitrocellulose prior to blocking overnight in marvel milk in _PROTEIN_ . blots were then probed with an antibody raised against the protein of the oxygen evolving complex of photosystem two _PROTEIN_ or against the subunit of the mitochondrial _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ according to the protocol ecl western blotting available on the internet at www.biol.rug.nl/lacto/protocols/westernecl.html . the secondary antibody used was anti rabbit conjugated to horseradish peroxidase _PROTEIN_ and the bands were detected using chemiluminescence . glyceraldehyde phosphate dehydrogenase activity was measured using a method based on the protocol of wu and racker in an assay containing m hepes ph mm nadph mm mm _PROTEIN_ units of phosphoglycerate phosphokinase mm phosphoglycerate . the change in absorbance at nm was measured at for min . the cytochromec oxidase assay was modified from the protocol of tolbert . cytochrome c was reduced by adding sodium dithionite until the ratio of the absorbances at and nm was equal to . the assay mix consisted of cytochrome c mm sodium phosphate buffer and triton x . the initial change in absorbance was measured at nm and . the concentration of chlorophyll was determined using the protocol of arnon . constructs encoding the full length protein coding sequence for cpo or the first amino acids were generated by pcr amplification from the full length cdna encoding cpo i from arabidopsis using as forward primer atcpo i.fwd _PROTEIN_ and either atcpo _PROTEIN_ or atcpo i.tprev _PROTEIN_ respectively . the pcr products were cloned into the bamhi sites in _METHOD_ to generate fusions to the coding sequence for solubility modified red shifted green _METHOD_ protein under the regulation of the promoter and the nopaline synthase terminator . the fidelity of pcr amplification and the fusion junctions were checked by sequencing . the plasmids were named patcif _METHOD_ and patcild _METHOD_ . a construct encoding the transit peptide of the dual targetedarabidopsis histidyl trs fused to _METHOD_ was used as a control . the constructs were introduced into tobacco leaf guard cells via particle bombardment using a _PROTEIN_ system . young tobacco leaves were placed on a piece of wetted whatman filter paper in a cm petri dish . the leaves were then bombarded with dna coated m tungsten particles at a target distance of cm . the tungsten particles were delivered at a helium pressure of pounds/square inch and a chamber vacuum of inches of mercury . the bombarded tissues were incubated under constant white light for about h before being analyzed under a leica tcs sp confocal microscope . an argon ion laser line of nm was used to excite both the _METHOD_ fluorophore and the chlorophyll . the emission spectra of the excited _METHOD_ and the chlorophyll _METHOD_ were collected between and nm and nm respectively in two separate channels . the recorded digital images were then imported and graphically enhanced using the program . positively charged arginine residues at positions and in the _PROTEIN_ presequence were changed to alanine using a method based on the inverse pcr protocol outlined in _METHOD_ et al . . to change the _PROTEIN_ lysine residue at position to alanine in vitrosite directed mutagenesis was carried out using the quikchangetm site directed mutagenesis kit andepicurian coli blue supercompetent cells .
