branched chain amino acid transaminases play a crucial role in the metabolism of leucine isoleucine and valine . they catalyze the last step of the synthesis and/or the initial step of the degradation of this class of amino acids . in arabidopsis seven putative bcat genes are identified by their similarity to their counterparts from other _METHOD_ . we have now cloned the respective cdna sequences of six of these genes . the deduced amino acid sequences show between and identity to each other and about to the homologous enzymes from yeast and mammals . in addition many amino acids in crucial positions as determined by crystallographic analyses of bcats from escherichia coli and human are conserved in the atbcats . complementation of a yeast double knockout strain revealed that five atbcats can function as bcats in vivo . transient _PROTEIN_ of bcat green _METHOD_ protein fusion proteins in tobacco protoplasts shows that three isoenzymes are imported into chloroplasts whereas a single enzyme is directed into mitochondria .
several recent reports on genes and cdnas encoding enzymes engaged in the degradation of the branched chain amino acid leu suggest the presence of a catabolic pathway in mitochondria . to identify the plant enzyme catalyzing the initial step of this degradation process bcat sequences from yeast human and escherichia coli were used to screen the sequence data available in the public data bases by the tblastn algorithm . this approach identified seven putative bcat genes in arabidopsis . after the completion of the arabidopsis genome project these genes were annotated on different bacteria artificial chromosome clones as indicated in table i . an additional putative gene annotated as bcat like was found in _PROTEIN_ searches but the predicted protein shows only limited similarity to the other atbcats and thus was not further analyzed . in addition to the genomic sequences several est sequences were identified four of which potentially encode bcat reading frames . sequencing of these clones which were kindly provided by the arabidopsis biological resource center confirmed them to encode putative bcat reading frames . in cdna clone however four missing nucleotides possibly lost in an aberrant splicing process and in clone _PROTEIN_ a point mutation introducing a stop codon disrupt the respective bcat reading frames . correct reading frames were identified in cdna clones generated by reverse transcriptase pcr from total arabidopsis rna . survey of the putative bcat genes identified in the arabidopsis genome of the other clones from the arabidopsis biological resource center clone _PROTEIN_ encodes an apparently complete bcat protein but clone encodes a bcat reading frame most likely truncated at the n terminus . inspection of genomic n terminal sequences identified a putative intron in this cdna clone which shortens the bcat reading frame at the n terminus . this clone was used to screen an arabidopsis cdna library and several fully spliced cdna clones encoding n terminally extended reading frames were identified . however about of the isolated cdna clones still contained intron with the shortened version of the reading frame . potential alternative splicing was examined by rt pcr analysis of total rna . a single cdna fragment corresponding in size to a completely spliced mrna does not detect partially spliced mrnas for atbcat in the total steady state rna . for atbcat and partial cdna fragments were generated by rt pcr and used to isolate complete cdna clones from an arabidopsis cdna library . no cdna fragment could be amplified for atbcat with gene specific primers even in repeated experiments . in addition no cdna clone originating from this gene could be isolated in a hybridization with the atbcat specific probe which is identical with the atbcat nucleotide sequence . it remains unclear at present whether atbcat which is located directly downstream of atbcat is an actively transcribed gene . the amino acid sequences deduced from the seven putative atbcat cdnas share between and identical amino acids with their counterparts from non plant _METHOD_ between and with two putative bcat sequences from potato cdnas and between and with each other . weak amino acid sequence similarity is observed with part of a bcat like reading frame in the arabidopsis genome . alignment of the seven atbcat sequences shows extensive conservation across almost the complete reading frames . a lys to which pyridoxalphosphate _PROTEIN_ is covalently linked in non plant bcats is conserved in all bcats from arabidopsis . a tyr and a glu anchoring the _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ in the bottom of the active site cavity are also present in the plant sequences . in addition several other amino acids with crucial functions revealed by crystallization of the respective proteins from e. coli and human are conserved in the arabidopsis sequences . these include a tyr and an arg _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ . these residues are important for the interaction between the monomers via hydrogen bonding and seem to be essential for the formation of the putative substrate binding pocket in hsbcatm . substantial sequence variability characterizes the n termini of the atbcats possibly encoding different targeting signals for the subcellular sorting of the individual enzymes . comparison of the amino acid sequences deduced from the different bcat cdnas and genomic sequences by the bestfit algorithm of the gcg software package the comparatively high amino acid sequence similarity of the putative bcats investigated here with their counterparts in other _METHOD_ strongly suggests an analogous function as bcats . to experimentally confirm such an activity in vivo the arabidopsis reading frames were tested for their ability to suspend auxotrophy for branched chain amino acids of a double knockout yeast strain . this strain is not able to grow on minimal medium with glc in the absence of a single any combination of two or all three branched chain amino acids . the transformation of the vector without insert which carries a marker rescues the auxotrophy for leu but does not influence the dependency on an external supply of val and iso leu . of course growth of the mutant can be rescued by the addition of all three branched chain amino acids although reduced growth rates compared with the wild type cells may indicate an additional function of the bcats in yeast . we used this system with the aim to test the ability of atbcats to complement the auxotrophy for branched chain amino acids . to this end the respective full length arabidopsis cdna sequences were cloned downstream of the yeast glycerol aldehyde phosphate dehydrogenase promoter in vector and transformed into . restored growth on minimal medium lacking the three branched chain amino acids _METHOD_ the respective enzymatic activities for atbcat and . growth parameters were comparable with the positive control in which scbat was used for complementation . we assume that a mitochondrial atbcat will be transported to mitochondria also in yeast and there take over the function of the mitochondrial . the other complementing atbcats probably remain in the _LOCATION_ taking over the function of the yeast _LOCATION_ enzyme . because yeast cells lacking the mitochondrial enzyme but with an intact _LOCATION_ protein can grow in the absence of branched chain amino acids a localization of the atbcats in the _LOCATION_ is sufficient to rescue the auxotrophy . no complementation was achieved with atbcat . to check whether an improper subcellular targeting might be responsible for the lack of complementation the conserved region starting with amino acid was c terminally fused to the _PROTEIN_ mitochondrial targeting sequence from neurospora crassa . however even with this presequence which correctly directs the conserved part of the homologous scbat protein into mitochondria in yeast no complementation is detectable . a control plasmid carrying the arabidopsis aspartate aminotransaminase _PROTEIN_ does not complement the auxotrophy confirming that the presence of functional bcat reading frames from arabidopsis is responsible for complementation . previous analyses had indicated that branched chain amino acids are synthesized in chloroplasts whereas the degradation pathways are accommodated in mitochondria . the n terminal extensions of atbcat and suggest targeting of these proteins to either of these organelles . distinct intracellular localizations are predicted by the various sorting prediction _METHOD_ . mitochondrial targeting of atbcat and is suggested by all _METHOD_ used whereas different subcellular destinations are predicted for atbcat and . for atbcat and targeting to _LOCATION_ or mitochondria is clearly excluded but peroxisomal and _LOCATION_ localizations are suggested by psort albeit with relatively low probabilities . to test the subcellular sorting of atbcat to in vivo complete cdnas and fragments corresponding to n terminal parts of different lengths were cloned in frame upstream of a plant _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ _METHOD_ . the cauliflower mosaic virus promoter drives _PROTEIN_ of these fusion proteins after transient transformation into tobacco protoplasts . colocalization of the atbcat _METHOD_ _METHOD_ with the mitotracker red _METHOD_ a dye that is specifically enriched in mitochondria identifies the atbcat _METHOD_ fusion protein in mitochondria . this is consistent with the computer prediction and suggests a participation of this protein in the branched chain amino acid degradation process . in contrast the _METHOD_ _METHOD_ patterns observed in protoplasts transformed with atbcat and _METHOD_ constructs are congruent with the _METHOD_ patterns of the chloroplasts identifying these organelles as their subcellular residence . the in vivo targeting of atbcat contradicts the prediction of a mitochondrial localization of this protein . no definitive localization is observed for the _METHOD_ fusion proteins with atbcat and moieties . for these a weak and diffuse _METHOD_ _METHOD_ is seen that could possibly be interpreted as a _LOCATION_ distribution of the respective fusion proteins which for would atbcat be consistent with the prediction by psort .
the cdna of atbcat was amplified with klentaq polymerase on total rna after first strand synthesis primed by oligo _PROTEIN_ primer dtxsc under conditions recommended for the polymerase used . in the first reaction primers and xsc were used under the following conditions min at min at and min at . the obtained cdnas were size fractionated on an agarose gel and fragments with sizes between and kb covering the expected size of about kb were eluted from the gel and used as templates for a second pcr with primers and with the following parameters five cycles of min at min at and min at followed by cycles of min at min at and min at . the resulting fragment of kb was then directly cloned into pbluescript vectors . ligation and transformation intoescherichia coli was performed under standard conditions described elsewhere . the atbcat cdna was cloned by an analogous strategy after one round of pcr amplification with primers and and five cycles of min at min at and min at followed by cycles of min at min at and min at . the cdna sequence of atbcat was determined on est clone _PROTEIN_ . for the isolation of complete cdnas of atbcat est clone was used as a probe to screen an arabidopsis cdna lambda zapii library obtained from the arabidopsis biological resource center . plating transfer and hybridization were carried out following the manual for the lambda zapii system and the recommendations given by the manufacturer of the hybond n _LOCATION_ . a cdna clone for atbcat was obtained by the same experimental procedure using a respective partial cdna fragment as probe . this fragment was amplified from first strand cdna synthesized on total rna engaging a nested pcr strategy with primer pairs and . screening of the arabidopsis cdna library was performed as described for atbcat . full length atbcat clones were isolated from the arabidopsis cdna library by hybridization with a cdna fragment obtained in a pcr with primers and on first strand cdna generated as indicated above . all sequences are available in public databases under the following accession numbers and . numbers describing the locations of the primers refer to the nucleotide numbering in the respective database entries . for the complementation tests atbcat and cdnas were amplified with primer pairs _METHOD_ h and r _METHOD_ h and r h and r and _METHOD_ h and on the respective cdna clones as templates . these primers containbamhi restriction sites attached at the ends to allow cloning into the respective site in vector . analogous clones of atbcat and were generated by direct cloning of the bamhi/bamhi andbamhi/sali full length cdna fragments into the vector . a plasmid carrying the scbat coding region from amino acids through with the attached mitochondrial targeting sequence of the neurospora crassa _PROTEIN_ subunit was used as positive control . to test the influence of subcellular targeting of atbcat on complementation a fragment coding the same n. crassa _PROTEIN_ targeting signal was cloned upstream of the atbcat reading frame which codes for amino acids through . as negative control a cdna fragment representing the complete arabidopsis mitochondrial asp amino transaminase _PROTEIN_ was generated by rt pcr with primers dtxsc gactcgagtcgacatcga and primer pair _PROTEIN_ h r with attachedbamhi restriction sites . cloning into was done as above . about to of each complementation clone and of the vector without insert were transformed into yeast strain and plated onto minimal medium . the plates were cultivated at and growth was monitored after to d. for the transient _PROTEIN_ of atbcat _METHOD_ fusion proteins respective fragments were amplified on the various atbcat cdna templates atbcat primers _METHOD_ h and _METHOD_ atbcat primers _METHOD_ h and _METHOD_ r atbcat primers _METHOD_ h and _METHOD_ r atbcat primers _METHOD_ h and _METHOD_ r atbcat primers _METHOD_ h and _METHOD_ and atbcat primers _METHOD_ h and _METHOD_ r . the amplified fragments correspond to the n terminal parts of and amino acids . all primers used contain attached bamhi restriction sites which were used for cloning into the respective site in vector _METHOD_ containing the _METHOD_ reading frame . on average of dna of the individual clones were transformed into about tobacco protoplasts . preparation and transformation of the protoplasts were carried out as described previously . mitotracker red staining was done according to a protocol given by the manufacturer . _METHOD_ of _METHOD_ mitotracker red and chlorophyll was visualized with an axioplan i microscope and the following filter sets _METHOD_ hq _PROTEIN_ and mitotracker hq rhodamine _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ and fitc hq lp . all filters were _PROTEIN_ from ahf analysentechnik . images were taken with the axiovision software . computer analyses were performed using the blast _METHOD_ at the national center for biotechnology information server . the protein alignment was generated with the megalign program of the dna star sequence analysis package . the intron in the atbcat cdna clone was identified using the genscan web server at _METHOD_ institute of technology and the natplantgene server at the center for biological sequence analysis biocentrum dtu at the technical university of denmark . predictions of subcellular targeting were done with psort mitop predotar and chlorop . reverse transcription was carried out with superscript ii rt in a buffer supplied by the manufacturer as outlined in the manual . sequence analyses of the clones carrying _METHOD_ fusion constructs and the negative test complementation clones were performed by cycle sequencing with the thermo sequenase _METHOD_ labeling kit or dna polymerase based sequencing with the autoread sequencing kits with datp labeling mix . sequencing fragments were detected and processed by an alf _PROTEIN_ sequencer . if not otherwise stated pcr was carried out with units of klentaq polymerase on about ng dna template with cycles of s at s at the melting temperature and s at .
