for the effective recycling of nutrients vascular plants transport pooled inorganic ions and metabolites through the sieve tube . a novel sulfate transporter gene was identified as an essential member contributing to this process for redistribution of sulfur source in belonged to the family of high affinity sulfate transporters and was able to complement the yeast sulfate transporter mutant . the fusion protein of and green _METHOD_ protein was _PROTEIN_ by promoter in transgenic plants which revealed phloem specific _PROTEIN_ in arabidopsis . green _METHOD_ protein was found in the sieve element companion cell complexes of the phloem in cotyledons and roots . limitation of external sulfate caused accumulation of both in leaves and roots . movement of labeled sulfate from cotyledons to the sink organs was restricted in the t dna insertion mutant of . these results provide evidence that transporter plays an important role in loading of sulfate to the sieve tube initiating the source to sink translocation of sulfur nutrient in arabidopsis .
the arabidopsis genome contains members of sulfate transporter genes that are assumed to function independently for the uptake and distribution of sulfate in various cell types . we have recently characterized the function of two distinct high affinity sulfate transporters and that facilitate the initial uptake of sulfate at the root epidermis and cortex in arabidopsis . in the present study a putative open reading frame _GENE_ that potentially encodes the third isoform of the high affinity sulfate transporter in arabidopsis was identified on the bac clone and designated . the cdna was isolated by reverse transcriptase pcr from the root rna of sulfur starved arabidopsis plants . the open reading frame encoded a polypeptide of amino acids that shows and identities to and respectively . was able to complement the lesion of sulfate uptake capacity of the yeast mutant _PROTEIN_ that lacks two sulfate transporter genes and . the growth of yeast mutant cells _PROTEIN_ the cdna on low sulfur medium was comparable with those containing or cdnas suggesting that encodes a functional sulfate transporter . the phylogenic relationships of plant sulfate transporters indicated that falls into the group of high affinity sulfate transporters in the vascular plants . as a consequence and were the three members of high affinity sulfate transporters encoded by the arabidopsis genome . the effect of sulfur limitation on the mrna accumulation was investigated by rt pcr . arabidopsis plants were grown continuously for weeks on gm containing or sulfate mrna was _PROTEIN_ both in leaves and roots and was abundantly _PROTEIN_ under sulfur deficient conditions particularly in leaves . the increased accumulation of mrna by sulfur limitation was comparable with those observed and . it is suggested that these three high affinity sulfate transporters are strictly regulated by the changes of the sulfur status . the inducible _PROTEIN_ of mrna by sulfur limitation is one of the general features of the high affinity sulfate transporter genes in plants . the cell type specific _PROTEIN_ was studied by introducing a fusion gene construct of and green _METHOD_ protein _METHOD_ in arabidopsis . a dna fragment of gene that starts from the region bp upstream of the translation initiation site and terminates before the stop codon of transporter was amplified from the arabidopsis genomic dna by pcr and fused to the coding sequence of _METHOD_ . this fusion gene construct enables the _PROTEIN_ of the _METHOD_ fusion protein under the control of promoter . the _METHOD_ fusion gene construct was stably integrated into the arabidopsis genome byagrobacterium mediated transformation . the _PROTEIN_ of _METHOD_ fusion protein was analyzed in independent transgenic lines grown for d on gm medium . in transgenic arabidopsis _METHOD_ of _METHOD_ was detected in the phloem of cotyledons hypocotyls and roots . _PROTEIN_ of _METHOD_ in the cotyledon was confined within the sieve element companion cell complexes . _METHOD_ was _PROTEIN_ found in the source organs and no green _METHOD_ was detected in the sink organs such as young rosette leaves . in roots the level of green _METHOD_ in the phloem was most remarkable in the mature part of the primary roots and at the branching point of the _PROTEIN_ roots . more precisely the _METHOD_ was detected in the companion cells in roots . the patterns of the cell type specific _PROTEIN_ of was completely different from those of . these results suggest that may have specific function in the transport of sulfate through the sieve element in arabidopsis . arabidopsis t dna insertion mutant was isolated from the t dna tagged population by reverse genetic strategy . from t dna transformed lines generated at the university of wisconsin we have identified a mutant line containing a single insertion in the coding region . t dna was integrated in the first exon of between the position to of the translation initiation site generating a bp deletion . the insertion site of t dna was determined by sequencing dna fragments amplified with specific primers for and the border regions of t dna . progenies containing a single homozygous insertion of t dna was selected through southern hybridization and propagated for further experiments . _PROTEIN_ of mrna was entirely eliminated in the homozygous mutant . the movement of labeled sulfate from the source to sink organs was determined in and the background wassilewskija wild type plants . to determine the rate of phloem mediated translocation of sulfate to the sink organs plants were grown for d on gm medium and the cotyledons were fed . in these young seedlings sulfate accumulated in the cotyledons can be reused in the expanding immature organs . after h of labeling plants were rinsed and further incubated for h in non labeled nutrient solution . plants were excised into three shoot without cotyledon and the accumulation of radioactivities in each organ was counted . in the wild type plants to of labeled sulfate were transported out of the cotyledons . it is suggested that the labeled sulfate rapidly moved out from the cotyledons and accumulated in the shoot apical region . however in mutant most of the radioactive sulfate was still present in the cotyledons . less than of the labeled sulfate was transported from the cotyledon to distant sink organs in the mutant . these results strongly indicates that disruption of sulfate transporter can attenuate the source to sink transport of sulfate . it is suggested that high affinity sulfate transporter participates in the loading of sulfate to the sieve tube particularly in the source organs controlling the flux of sulfur on the stream of phloem sap . movement of labeled sulfate in and wild type plants
arabidopsis plants were grown on gm medium at under h light and dark cycles . sulfate deficient gm medium was prepared by replacing sulfate salts contained in citation salts with equivalent chloride salts as described previously . agar was rinsed in deionized water to remove the contamination of sulfate . the mutant in the ws background was screened from random t dna insertion population generated at the university of wisconsin . pcr screening was carried out following the user guidelines . oligonucleotide primers f and r w were designed according to the nucleotide sequence of bac clone to screen t dna insertions in the coding sequence . single insertion of t dna was confirmed by southern hybridization analysis . the integration site of the t dna was determined by sequencing pcr fragments amplified with and t dna specific primers . molecular biological experiments were carried out according to the standard protocols . cdna was isolated by rt pcr . oligonucleotide primers fe and re were designed to amplify the coding sequence of according to the nucleotide sequence of bac clone . total rna was extracted from the roots of week old arabidopsis ecotype columbia plants grown vertically on sulfur deficient media containing of sulfate using rneasy plant mini kit . reverse transcription was carried out using superscript ii reverse transcriptase as described previously . pcr was carried out on the first strand cdna using pfu turbo dna polymerase . the amplified ecori ended fragment was cloned into the ecori site of pbluescriptii sk and fully sequenced on both strands . the ecori ended fragment cdna described above was cloned into the ecori site of the yeast _PROTEIN_ vector . the resulting plasmid was transferred into the brewer 's yeast mutant strain _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ by the lithium acetate method and the transformants were selected on synthetic dextrose minimal medium containing g glc mm of homo cys and required amino acids . complementation of the mutant was tested on sulfur deficient sd medium containing mm of sulfate as a sulfur source . preparation of total rna and reverse transcription was carried out as described for the isolation cdna . first strand cdna that derives from ng of total rna was used for the amplification . pcr was carried out byextaq dna polymerase using gene specific primers fsac and r _PROTEIN_ . pcr was carried out for cycles where cdnas were exponentially amplified . amplification and tubulin was carried out as described previously . pcr products were separated in agarose gels and stained with sybr green . signals were detected and quantified using fluorimager with a to nm band pass filter . the fusion gene construct and _METHOD_ for plant transformation was constructed as follows . oligonucleotide primers _PROTEIN_ and rsac _PROTEIN_ were designed according to the nucleotide sequence of bac clone to amplify a fragment that starts from the promoter region bp upstream of the translation initiation site and terminates at thesaci site at the position bp downstream of the translation initiation site . oligonucleotide primers fsac and rxb were designed to amplify the rest of the coding sequence of pcr . pcr was carried out on genomic dna prepared from arabidopsis ecotype columbia using pfu turbo dna polymerase . bamhi ecori fragment of the omega _METHOD_ containing the _METHOD_ coding sequence and the nopaline synthase terminator was placed into the position of _PROTEIN_ and the nopaline synthase terminator in the binary plasmid . the hindiii saci andsaci xbai fragments were inserted between thehindiii and xbai site of this promoter less _METHOD_ binary vector constructed in . the binary plasmid containing the promoter and coding region _METHOD_ fusion in frame was transferred to agrobacterium by the freeze thaw method . arabidopsis plants were transformed according to the floral dip method . transgenic plants were selected on gm medium containing mg kanamycin sulfate . kanamycin resistant progenies of independent lines were analyzed . tissues were embedded in agar and cut into cross sections with a microslicer dtk . _METHOD_ of _METHOD_ in transgenic plants was observed under a microscope equipped with a confocal laser scanning system and a to nm band pass filter . one microliter drop of solution _METHOD_ containing triton x was fed to cotyledons of d old plants grown on gm medium . after h of incubation plants were rinsed three times in water and left h in non labeled gm nutrient solution . plants were excised into three shoot without cotyledon and digested by adding of mm hcl to one mg fresh weight of plant tissue . tissues were extracted for h in mm hcl and the radioactivity was determined in a scintillation counter . upon request all novel materials described in this publication will be made available in a timely manner for noncommercial research purposes subject to the requisite permission from any third party owners of all or parts of the material . obtaining any permissions will be the responsibility of the requestor .
