_LOCATION_ is required for various physiological and developmental processes in animals and plants . in response to varied o levels plants _PROTEIN_ relatively constant internal content suggesting a precise regulatory mechanism for homeostasis . however little is known about how plants monitor o status and whether o sensing receptors exist . the effects of o on guard cells in promoting stomatal closure by inducing increases in the concentration of _LOCATION_ provide a clue to o sensing . here we have used a functional screening assay in mammalian cells to isolate an arabidopsis complementary dna clone encoding a sensing receptor cas . cas is localized to the _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ exhibits low affinity/high capacity binding and mediates o induced i increases . cas is _PROTEIN_ predominantly in the shoot including guard cells . repression of cas disrupts o signalling in guard cells and impairs bolting in response to deficiency so we conclude that cas may be a primary transducer of o in plants .
in plants a high proportion of the total is often located in the cell wall and at the exterior surface of the _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ . o is important for the stability of the wall and the _LOCATION_ and is essential in many physiological processes such as root tip growth pollen tube elongation light perception and phytohormone action . in contrast to _LOCATION_ sensing how plants perceive o and coordinate their growth and development with the status of o remains largely unknown . it has long been established that o promotes stomatal closure by triggering guard cell i increases and oscillations in commelina . we reasoned that o induced i increases in commelina guard cells might represent a mechanism by which plants sense o . to investigate the molecular nature of cici we re examined the o effect in arabidopsis guard cells using cameleon based imaging techniques . the addition of induced i increases in guard cells consistent with previous studies . it is possible that increased o provides a driving force for influx triggers a signalling cascade for release from internal stores or does both . in both animals and plants the inositol trisphosphate pathway is responsible for stimulus triggered release in many instances . preliminary experiments show that inhibition of phospholipase c a component of the pathway abolished guard cell cici and stomatal closure indicating that cici may involve o sensing by a receptor . to study the putative cas further we attempted to clone cas from arabidopsis using a functional screening approach as described for the capsaicin receptor . messenger rna from leaves was used to construct a cdna library which was subdivided into pools . each pool was transiently transfected into human embryonic kidney cells . transfected cells were screened for cici using ratiometric imaging of the _METHOD_ sensitive dye fura . o at mm caused i increases in a few cells transfected with empty vector . a positive pool pool was identified which resulted in more o sensitive cells . this pool was divided into ten sub pools and re screened . after subdividing the pool several times a single kb cdna was isolated that conferred o sensitivity to transfected cells and was thus named cas . the cas cdna encodes a protein of amino acids with a calculated molecular _METHOD_ of da . cas is a single copy gene in the arabidopsis genome . database searches identified several homologues in other plant species but not in animals . hydrophobicity analysis showed that cas has a single transmembrane domain . the _PROTEIN_ terminus is possibly intracellular and has sequence similarity to a rhodanese domain which is likely to have a role in protein protein interactions . the putative _LOCATION_ amino terminus has no significant homology to any known functional domains . it should be noted that in contrast to _LOCATION_ sensors such as calmodulin cas is unlikely to contain high affinity binding sites such as ef hands as physiological o is in the submillimolar range . nevertheless acidic amino acids have been reported to act as low affinity binding sites in animal cells . the n terminus contains several acidic amino acids and its isoelectric point is . to test whether cas binds to we prepared recombinant proteins for both the n terminus and the c terminus and assayed their abilities to bind . when blotting with only the n terminus and cam bound to but not the c terminus . when blotting with and cold only the n terminus bound to showing qualitatively that the n terminus is indeed a binding domain and contains low affinity/high capacity binding sites compared with cam . to analyse the binding quantitatively we conducted equilibrium dialysis using the purified n terminal protein . figure shows that the n terminus bound to per cas molecule with a dissociation constant kd mm confirming the binding data . furthermore we analysed the kinetics of activation and inactivation of cas in cells which correlate with the association and dissociation between cas and o respectively . the activation time course could be described by a simple sigmoid equation with an activation time constant of s . a triple exponential decay function could be fitted to the inactivation of cas with an inactivation time constant of s. a hill curve could be fitted to the data of cas activation with a kd of mm and a hill coefficient of consistent with the kd and multiple o binding sites observed using equilibrium dialysis . taken together these data demonstrate that cas contains low affinity/high capacity binding sites on the n terminus . subsequently we determined the _PROTEIN_ and subcellular localization of cas in arabidopsis . rna blot analysis shows that cas is predominantly _PROTEIN_ in shoots . a cas promoter gus fusion shows that cas is _PROTEIN_ in guard cells . we _PROTEIN_ cas _METHOD_ and _METHOD_ in onion epidermal cells and found that cas _METHOD_ _METHOD_ was exclusively localized to the cell surface whereas _METHOD_ alone was localized throughout the cells . after the epidermal cells were incubated in m mannitol the fusion proteins and the _LOCATION_ _LOCATION_ retracted from the cell wall due to plasmolysis . we also found cas in the _LOCATION_ fraction but not in the soluble fraction of proteins from leaves . finally we confirmed the guard cell surface localization of cas using immunolocalization . to assess the function of cas in plants first we examined whether cas is required for guard cell o signalling . as we were unable to find cas null lines we introduced a cas antisense construct into arabidopsis . cas _PROTEIN_ was dramatically reduced at the mrna and protein levels in all six antisense lines tested _PROTEIN_ with three of them shown . to analyse cici in guard cells we introduced a cameleon construct into _PROTEIN_ and _PROTEIN_ plants and found that the cici was disrupted significantly in these lines compared with the wild type . o induced stomatal closure was also abolished in these lines . however aba induced stomatal closure was virtually unaffected suggesting that cas antisense specifically knocked out o signalling and that cas has an essential role in guard cell o signalling . note that apart from o stomatal movements are regulated by various abiotic and biotic _PROTEIN_ . apparently guard cells must integrate several _PROTEIN_ to control stomatal apertures appropriately cas several influx and release _METHOD_ and pumps must act in concert to regulate _LOCATION_ free status . calcium is an abundant and essential divalent cation nutrient in higher plants and has a central role in numerous physiological and developmental processes . to examine whether cas also functions in processes other than stomatal closure we analysed plant growth and development in response to limited supplies . figure shows that _PROTEIN_ plants showed a severe defect in bolting in response to deficit compared with the wild type . _PROTEIN_ plants bolted eventually at reduced but much _PROTEIN_ than the wild type . in contrast to wild type plants _PROTEIN_ plants could not flower and displayed severe _METHOD_ of deficiency . the content of these plants was further analysed and no significant differences between _PROTEIN_ and wild type plants were found under the imposed growth conditions . similar phenotypes were observed in _PROTEIN_ to plants . bolting represents an important developmental switch in flowering plants . it is possible that a threshold of o has to be reached and sensed by cas to signal the switch to bolting . in the antisense plants although the o level is not changed the malfunction of o sensing can not sensitively detect the level of o and signals insufficient o for bolting suggesting that cas has a key role in arabidopsis development . we have cloned and characterized a cell surface o sensing receptor in arabidopsis . we have also identified the essential role of cas in o signalling in guard cells and bolting . molecular genetic cell biological and physiological analyses lead us to propose that o activates cas which converts the o signal into _LOCATION_ free . it is possible that cas may initiate the pathway in arabidopsis as suggested by our preliminary observation consistent with induced stomatal closure . in contrast previous studies have shown that the cici in commelina guard cells is not affected by inhibition of phospholipase c but by inhibition of channels suggesting that o triggers influx . therefore it remains to be determined which mobilizing as releases triggered by cyclic adp ribose or nicotinic acid adenine dinucleotide phosphate or influx activated by cas . functional analysis of cas mediated cici in heterologous _PROTEIN_ _METHOD_ and in plants and identification of the downstream components of cas should help to clarify these issues . the cas mediated o induced stomatal closure is possibly physiologically relevant . the distribution of in plants is affected by the rate of transpiration which is predominantly controlled by stomata . calcium moves in relatively large amounts to highly transpiring tissues but much less moves to weakly transpiring tissues . from the standpoint of supply plants must downregulate transpiration when the unloading rate is high and vice versa . it is likely that excessive water evaporation from stomatal pores results in an increase in the local concentration of o outside guard cells to submillimolar or millimolar . consequently the elevated o activates cas which mediates stomatal closure preventing excessive unloading . thus o induced stomatal closure could function as a feedback mechanism of supply . interestingly enough our preliminary data show that the content was higher in antisense plants than in the wild type when they were grown in soil supporting the feedback hypothesis . precise information on the concentration range of o is lacking and data taken from the literature vary from to . it is especially difficult to precisely detect o outside guard cells as water evaporation from stomatal pores may cause uneven distribution of apoplastic solutes including o . our finding that cas is required for guard cell o signalling and bolting suggests that cas has a central role in diverse o dependent processes . the cloning of cas and manipulation of its activity now make it possible to assess the molecular function of o in plants .
leaf epidermal peels from soil grown arabidopsis thaliana were placed in a microwell chamber containing mm kcl mm mes tris ph . cameleon based imaging was performed as described using a _METHOD_ microscope equipped with two filter wheels and a cooled ccd camera . excitation was provided at nm and emission ratiometric images were collected using imaging workbench software . rosette leaves were floated in solutions containing mm kcl mm mes tris ph for h. at mm was added to the solutions for h to assay stomatal closure as described . mrnas were isolated from arabidopsis leaves . cdnas were synthesized and ligated into the sali and noti sites of vector . recombinant plasmids were introduced into escherichia coli . the resulting clones were divided into pools for transfection of cells . cells were grown and _PROTEIN_ in _PROTEIN_ medium supplemented with fetal bovine serum penicillin and streptomycin . for transfection cells were seeded onto eight well chambered coverglasses for h and transfected with plasmid dna from individual pools using lipofectamine reagent . cells were loaded with fura am and a imaging assay was performed in the cells as . for blot analysis the n terminus and c terminus were subcloned into pet and _PROTEIN_ in e. coli . the purified n and c termini together with bovine cam at were separated by _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ and transferred to _LOCATION_ . the _LOCATION_ were washed in free solution containing mm mm kcl mm mes koh ph blotted with ml fresh for min rinsed for min in ethanol and exposed to x ray _METHOD_ . unlabelled at mm was added as indicated . equilibrium dialysis was performed using dialysis cells separated by dialysis _LOCATION_ as described . purified n terminus was dialysed in a solution containing mm mm kcl mm mops ph for h. radioactivity was determined by liquid scintillation counting . northern blot analysis histochemical staining for gus activity and immunolocalization were performed as described . for northern blot rna was loaded and blotted with a labelled cas probe . for gus staining a genomic fragment of kb in the promoter region of cas was amplified by pcr with primers gcccgcggtgtttgtttgttattgttttgggta and ggctcgagggtttctctctgccacactt and cloned into a gus binary vector . transgenic plants were generated using agrobacterium mediated transformation and selected by kanamycin . independent homozygous transformants carrying a single insertion in the generation were analysed further . cas antisense plants were generated similarly . for _METHOD_ based analysis cas _METHOD_ or _METHOD_ was transiently _PROTEIN_ in onion epidermal cells by bombardment . for immunolocalization polyclonal antibodies were raised in rabbits using the purified n and c termini as the antigen . the leaf epidermal peels were placed on poly l lysine coated slides . affinity purified primary anti cas and fluorescein isothiocyanate conjugated anti rabbit secondary antibodies were diluted and respectively . total proteins from arabidopsis leaves were separated on _PROTEIN_ _PROTEIN_ and incubated with anti cas antibody followed by alkaline phosphatase conjugated anti rabbit antibody and developed using nbt/bcip substrate . the leaf homogenate was centrifuged at and the supernatant was further centrifuged at to separate the soluble proteins and _LOCATION_ associated proteins . wild type and antisense plants were grown in the _METHOD_ based media containing _METHOD_ minor salts sucrose agar and _METHOD_ major salts with supplemented to mm or mm . each pot contained ml media . for content analysis shoots were digested with nitric acid and the total content was determined using an atomic absorption spectrometer . data were analysed and presented as described .
